The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


UIS'IVERSITY 

It Happened At Notice Dame 
Jcs T one month ago, Father Hes­
burgh leveled his sights on campus 
disruptions. While it was aimed spe­
cifically at unrest on the Notre Dame 
Campus, his declai-ation rang through­
out the country di-awing massive sup­
port from all corners. 
Alumni were lieartened by his statement. Goveriunent officials, led by the President of the United States, hailed it as a "fortliriglit stand." The public as well as the nation's press had nothing but praise. And on the Campus, the University's student body, in addition to giving substantial support to his letter, proposed the institution of an academic depart­ment of the non-violent resolution of human conflict, a project which al­ready has atti-acted a sizeable grant from the Gulf Oil Company. 
For Reverend Theodore Mai'tin Hesburgh, CSC, sixteenth president of the University, February 17 marked the day he made a stand to preser\-e what he called "the University as wo have known and loved it." 
The now-famous eight-i)age letter to faculty members, students and their parents states that any member of the University community who per­sists in protest activities which dis­rupt the normal operation of the Uni­versity or infi-inge upon the rights of others faces on-the-spot sus))ension, expulsion and action by civil au­thorities. 
Father Hesburgh spelled out the steps which the University would take against "anyone or any gioup that substitutes force for rational persua­sion, be it violent or non-violent": 
1) Such persons. Father Hes­burgh said, "will be given 1.5 minutes of meditation to cease and desist. They will be told that they are, by their actions, going counter to the overwhelming conviction of this com­munity as to what is proper here. If they do not within that time period cease and desist, they will be asked for identity cards." 
2) "Those who produce these 
(identity cards) will be suspended from this conununity as not under­standing what this community is. Those who do not have or will not produce identity cards will be as­sumed not to be membei"s of the com­munity and will be charged with trespassing and disturbing the peace on private property and treated ac­cordingly by the law." 
3) "After notification of suspen­sion, or trespass in the case of non-community members, if there is not then within five minutes a movement to cease and desist, students will be notified of expulsion from this com­munity, and the law will deal with them as non-students." 
AoT everyone thinks Father Hes­burgh's "15 minutes to meditate" or else policy will work. Numerous col­lege and university officials inter­viewed recently by the Wall Street Journal feel Hesburgh's solution is workable only at Notre Dame. They go even further by saying that if adopted at their institutions it would result in even greater confrontations. 
Those questioning the Notre Dame president's stand are outnumbered significantly by supporters of the stand. Perhaps the most celebrated endorsement came from President Richai-d JI. Nixon. In a Febniary 22 letter Nixon applauded Father Hes­burgh's views and asked that the Notre Dame head direct his comments on campus unrest in genei-al to Vice-President Agnew who was_convening a meeting of the 50 state governors in Washington. On their agenda was a proposal, backed by Governor Ronald Reagan of California, to conduct a fedex-al investigation into the causes and sources of US campus unrest. 
M N his message to the Vice-Presi­dent, Father Hesburgh appealed for the understanding of both peaceable and rebellious students and urged that universities be allowed to settle their own problems whenever possi­ble. Father Hesburgh further noted that a disrupted school should not hesitate to summon any outside assis­tance "necessary to presei-ve the uni­versity and its values.' But he ex-Ijlained that only the university could make the decision. The proposal be­fore the govei-iiors was rejected. 
Father Hesburgh's letter to faculty, students and their parents was pre­cipitated by a series of student pro­tests on Campus over the past two years. But the event that immediately triggered his hand was an aborted student-sponsored conference on por­nography and censorship out of which came the confiscation of a "porno­graphic" film by law enforcement of­ficials. From that debacle developed cries of "infi-ingement of academic freedom," and "police brutality." Days later the Hesburgh letter was issued. The beginning, in recent times, of student protest at Notre Damo is not quite two yeai's old. The first demon­stration came outside the JMorris Inn in 10G6 where a group of students and faculty protested the awarding of the Senior Class Pati-iot of the Year Award to General William Westmoreland, then commander of allied forces in Vietnam. Small, ten-to fifteen-men demonstrations also were directed toward the Dow Chem-
NOTRE D.VME .VLU.M.XUS, Vol. 47, No. 2, March, 19C9. TIic ALUXI.VUS is publislicd cii-lit times a j-car by llit Uinvcrsity of .Voire Dame. Second 
class postage paid at Notrt, IX -10556. 
^ ^' 

:2»i^"«»i £ 

ical Company in 1967-68, an academic year which ended with a peace dem­onstration by nearly 200 participants at the annual KOTO presidential re­view. Student protest also raised its head this fall. In November two to three-hundred students staged a three-day sit-in outside the Placement Of­fice where Dow Chemical and the Cen­tral Intelligence Agency representa­tives were conducting interviews. The first two days of the protest went ac­cording to the demonstrators' plans approved by the University's adminis­tration .. . peaceful and unob­structive 
HoWEVEB, a maverick group of about 20 students, seeking to inten­sify the protest, blocked the CIA in-tei-viewer's dooi-way. Administi'ation officials and student government lead­ers urged the dissidents to desist. They didn't and tensions heightened. The possibility of a confrontation dissi­pated, however, when the CIA repre­sentative was told by his superiors to leave the Campus. 
The incident drew sharp criticism from Father Hesburgh who labeled the action of the belligerent group "clearly tyranny." He then enjoined all representative bodies within the Notre Dame community to declare themselves and to give him a "clear mandate" as to the type of society they wished to see at the University. 
By December, Father Hesburgh re­ceived the statements he needed. The Student Life Council, the Faculty Senate and the Academic Council sent resolutions to the president to: 1) uphold the rights of all, 2) to main­tain. civility and i-ationality and 3) insure that lines of communication were always open to all segments of the community. 
Father Hesburgh evaluated the res­olutions of each of the representative groups and formulated procedures the University would follow if confronted with future disi-uptive demonstra­tions. But before he finalized them, the ciisis over the pornography and censoiship conference broke and the University found itself in the midst of a confrontation. 
The conference, planned by the same students who last year directed the nationally tauted Sophomore Lit­erai-y Festival, was intended to be a sequel to a similar pomogi-aphy­censorship meeting successfully pro­gramed in the Center for Continu­ing Education last year. 
This year's conference, however, developed troubles long before it ever got off the ground due primarily to faulty communication and little, if any, coordination within the planning committee. As a result the Univer­sity had on its hands on the eve of the conference a film outlawed in sev­eral ^states, an art exhibit i-eviewed by University officials as worse than "hard core pomognraphy" and, to heighten tensions further, onlooking representatives from the Citizens for Decent Literature, invited by students to participate in the conference. 
The film in question was "Flaming Creatures," a movie judged by the supreme courts of New York and Michigan as "hard core pomogfraphy." 
The case was also presented to the 
U.S. Supreme Court which refused to review the New York decision. As a result University officials felt the film would probably be in violation of the applicable laws of the state of Indi­ana. Once so appi-aised of the film and the art exhibit, student leaders banned both features from the con­ference. 
A cONTlNTnNG lack of coordination resulted in the partial showing of "Flaming Creatures' as well as a sec­ond unauthorized film, "Kodak Ghost Poems," before an audience in the Center for Continuing Education. Members of the Citizens for Decent Literature were among the viewei-s and the next day filed a complaint with the county pi-osecutor. In ad­dition the CDL group indicated their belief that the movies in question were going to be shown again. 
The county prosecutor stated that it was his duty to obtain a war­rant and impound the films. He no­tified the University of the impending action but agreed to allow University officials to take every possible action within their power to prevent the screening of the films. When it be­came apparent that Notre Dame couldn't provent the showing of the films which were no longer in the possession of the conference planners but in the hands of the movie maker and a group of dissident students, the prosecutor and some two dozen plainclothes deputies appeared on Campus. 
AGAINST the orders of the Univer­sity and student officials, the splinter groups of students and faculty moved to show "Kodak Ghost Poems." They maintained they had such a right based on academic freedom and the fact that showing the movie on pri­vate University propei-ty protected them from "outside" police force. 
As the movie was being i-eadied for screening in Nieuwland Science Hall, the prosecutor seized the film. A tussle ensued. The plainclothesmen with­drew the film and were subjected to continued physical assault as they at­tempted to make their way off cam­pus. The deputies were forced to de­fend themselves with a chemical dis­abling agent commonly known as Mace. They finally succeeded in leav­ing the University grounds. No ar­rests were made. 
Following the incident Father Hes-burgh sununoned a meeting of the Student Life Council at which a spe­cial subcommittee was established to review and ascertain the facts of the entire incident. The subcommittee is still in the process of hearing testi­mony but is expected to submit a thor­ough report of events surrounding the pornography and censorship confer­ence before the end of March. 
In his letter which followed the pornography incident by one week. Father Hesburgh indicated that his statement "does not relate directly to what happened here last weekend, al­thought those events made it seem even more necessary to get this letter written." 

The Heshurgh letter 
February 17, 1969 
Dear Notre Dame Facul^ and Students: 
This letter has been on my mind for wedcs. It is bodi time and overtime that it be written. I have oodined die core of it to die Student Life Council, have dis­cussed the text with die Chairman of die Board of Trustees, the Vice Presidents Council, all the Deans of die University, and the Chairmen of die Faculty Sen­ate and the Student Life CoundL This letter does not relate direcdy to what happened here last wedcend, although those events made it seem even more neces­sary to get this letter written. I have tried to write calmly, in the wee hours of die morning when at last there is quiet and pause for reflection. 
My hope is that these ideas will have deep personal 
resonances in our own community, aldiou^ the central 
problem they address exists everyvAwte in die univer­
sity world today and, by instant communication, feeds 
upon itself. It is not enou^ U> label it die alienation 
of youth from our society. God knows there is enoi^i 
and more than enough in our often non-glorious civiliza­
tion to be alienated from, be you youn^ aii<idle-aged, 
or old. 
The central problem to me is vibat we do about it and in what manner, if we ate interested in healing rather than destroying our world. Youth especially has much to offer — idealism, generosity, dedication, and service. The last thing a shaken society needs is more shaking. The last thing a noisy, turbulent, and disintegrating community needs is mote noise, turbu­lence, and disintegration. Understanding and analysis of social ills cannot be conducted in a boiler factory. Compassion has a quiet way of service. Complicated social mechanisms, out-of-joint, are not adjusted with sledge hammers. 
The university cannot cure all our ills today, but it can make a valiant beginning by. bringing all its intellectual and moral powers to beat upon diem; all the idealism and genetosi^ of its young people, all die 
The gurcival of thm mmimef»itf/ 
i» one of Muam's hemt kope» in these tronhted iimtea 
wisdom and intelligence of its oldsters, all die exper­tise and competence of diose who are in theit middle years. But it must do all thb as a university does, with­in its proper style and capability, no longer an ivory tower, but not the Red Cross either. 
Now to the heart of my message. You recall my letter of November 25, 1968. It was written after an incident, or happening if you will. It seemed best to me at the time not to waste time in personal recrimina­tions or heavy-handed discipline, but to profit from the 
occasion to invite tliis whole University community, 
especially its central Councils of faculty, administra­
tion, and students, to declare themselves and to state 
their convictions regarding protests tliat were peaceful 
and those that threatened the life of the community 
by disrupting the normal operations of the University 
and infringing upon the rights of others. 
I now have statements from the Academic Council, 
tlic Faculty Senate, the Student Life Council, some Col­
lege Councils, the Alumni Board, and a whole spate of 
letters from individual faculty members and a few stu-

All of IIS lire respoiisihie to tlie dull/ constituted taws of the nniversiti/ and of the land 
dents. Some of these are enclosed in this letter. In general, the reaction was practically unanimous that this community recognizes the validity of protest in our day — sometimes even the necessity — regarding the current burning issues of our society: war and peace, especially Vietnam; civil rights, especially of minority groups; the stance of the University vis-a-vis moral issues of great public concern; the operation of the University as university. There was also practical unanimity that the University could not continue to exist as an open society, dedicated to the discussion of all issues of importance, if protests were of such a nature that the normal operations of the University were in any way impeded, or if the rights of any mem­ber of this community were abrogated, peacefully or non-pcacefully. I believe that I now have a clear man­date from this University community to see that: 
1) our lines of communication bet»veen all segments of the community arc kept as open as possible, with all legitimate means of communicating dissent assured, expanded, and protected; 
2) civility and rationality are maintained as the most reasonable means of dissent within the academic community; and 
3) violation of others' rights or obstruction of the life of the University are outlawed as illegitimate means of dissent in this kind of open society. Violence was especially deplored as a violation of everything that the University community stands for. 
Now comes my duty of stating, clearly and un­equivocally, what happens if. I'll try to make it as sim­ple as possible to avoid misunderstanding by anyone. May I begin by saying that all of this is hypothetical and I personally hope it never happens here at Notre Dame. But, if it does, anyone or any group that sub­stitutes force for rational persuasion, be it violent or non-violent, will be given fifteen minutes of medita­tion to cease and desist They will be told that they are, by their actions, going counter to the overwhelming conviction of this community as to what is proper here. If they do not within that time period cease and desist. 
Continued on page 42 
The "come alive" 



ND's 
** M ou, sir, are a true teacher, will­ing to acknowledge the existence of each person, seeing in every face the meaning and wonder of human ex­istence." With these words, written by Professor Frank O'JIalley, the Senior Class of 1969 bestowed Notre Dame's first Senior Fellow Award on Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Min­nesota. 
The award ceremony and speech by Notre Dame's distinguished Fellow on JIarch 6 climaxed two days of classes, private discussions, dinners, and in­formal seminars in which Eugene Mc­Carthy confronted hundreds of Notre Dame students on the Campus. The Minnesota senator is the first recipi­ent of the Senior Fellowship, which 
generation meets a sj)okesma7i, Setiator Eugene McCarthy, 

First Senior 
replaced the traditional "Patriot of the Year Award" in the University's century-old Washington Day Exer­cises. 
McCarthy arrived on Campus at noon on March 5, to be greeted by a delegation of seniors, headed by Class president David Witt, and Chuck Sheedy, chairman and founder of the Senior Fellow Award at Notre Dame. McCarthy lunched with sevei-al mem­bers of the senior class, picked by lottery, and then proceeded to lead several question-ami-answer periods in various senior classes around the Campus. 
Notre Dame's Senior Fellow first attended Professor Johrt W. Houck's "Legal Aspects of Business" class in 

Fellow 
the Hayes-Healy Business Building and then offered a poetry reading of his original work in Frank O'Malley's "Modem Catholic Writers" class later in the afternoon. His first evening at Noti-e Dame was spent at a dinner for more seniors, followed by an in­formal gathering of faculty and stu­dents at the Alumni Club-Senior Bar. 
More Notre Dame seniors saw the recent presidential candidate on Thui-sday in a seminar on foreign policy and in Father Joseph Hoff­man's "Christian Marriage" course. Following an afternoon press confer­ence and a formal dinner with class officers and Father Hesburgh, plus other members of the University ad­ministration, at the Jlorris Inn, Mc­Carthy spoke to over 3,000 people at the Stepan Center where he fomially received the Senior Fellow Award. 
McCartliy's appearance at Notre Dame mai-ked one of the few public showings he has made since last sum­mer's Chicago Convention. Still dis­playing the characteristic low-keyed, unemotional, and academic manner which marked him dui-ing last yeai"'s historic campaign; McCarthy fielded many questions from the curious stu­dents regarding his own political fu­tur-e and the future of the "new poli­tics." Although he was uncertain himself on these subjects, most sen­iors got the distinct impression that America will be seeing much more of Eugene McCarthy in the future. 
The Noire Dame Honor Concept 
"Jt G Xotr^ Dame ttaleaf, 
1 pleJs' hotuily in ell my 
cceJemic xavrl and trUl an! io!craf( Jaiottettf ia mf jdhxa stuicaU'' 


Honor Council Baiks 
Mx a surprise move on February 11, the Notre Dame Student Honor Coun­cil suspended all administrative and executive functions of the council— in effect crippling the famous Notre Dame Student Honor Concept. The Honor Code, which is generally rec­ognized as the keystone to student responsibility at the university, has been maintained since 19G3 when it was enacted by student initiative after several years of negotiation. The Honor Concept is based upon the premise: "As a Notre Dame student, I pledge honesty in all my academic work and will not tolerate dishonesty in my fellow students." 
The forty-man council announced its indefinite leave of absence in a letter to the student body. "We have found it necessary," the council ex­plained in the letter, "to take these actions for several reasons. The Honor Council, as it was originally conceived, must reflect the community's com­mitment to honesty. The current sit­uation makes it apparent to us that the community is no longer committed to this concept. We are convinced that the total number of cases reported represents only a small fraction of the actual violations. We are further convinced tliat, while most individuals seem to uphold personal honesty, they do not consider the honesty of others to be their concern. We can no longer in good conscience continue to levy penalties on the few violators who are reported while many other violators are granted impunity." 


Resolutions Passed 
WoTRE DAME'S Student Life Council recently passed resolutions recom­mending further implementation of the University's policy concerning hall life and student autonomy. 
In a March 3 meeting on Campus the tripartite group, consisting of students, faculty and administrators, passed resolutions dealing with ex­tended weekend visitation privileges; the use of alcoholic beverages on Campus; the role of the rector and the responsibility of the student with­in the residence hall; and the unifi­cation of hall government and the year-old Campus judicial system. Its recent resolutions were directed toward placing moi'e responsibility in the hands of the student community. 
The 24-member SLC is empowered to legislate on all matters relating to student life. Procedures call for the review of all resolutions by the Uni­versity president who has three alter­natives. He may not act upon them and they become effective after a 12­day period; he may veto them, which constitutes an automatic review by the University Board of Trustees; or he may remand them directly to the Board for their decision. 
Recently the SLC recommended an extension of weekend visitation priv­ileges in the dorms as an experimen­tal progi'am until the end of the spring semester. A resolution recom­mending revision of University policy regarding the use of alcoholic bev­ei"ages on Campus also passed by a large margin. The resolution forbids the buying or selling of alcoholic beverages on Campus and the pres­ence of such beverages in all public 
Notre Dame's Student Life Council 
with them in determining' program and speakers. 
COLV3tN 

2) One of the first questions faced by student planners and their faculty advisors will be whether or not to 

by SLC 
places on Campus. It also reminds students of the Indiana State law re­garding the possession of such bev­erages by minors as unlawful. 
The Council further recommended that the role of the hall rector should be established as that of being re­sponsible for the spiritual, intellec­tual, social and physical welfare of the hall residents and for providing the moral leadership of the hall com­munity. Other resolutions dealt with the role and responsibility of student government on the hall level. 
Concurrent with established policy, the resolutions went to University president Father Hesburgh. He has announced that the Executive Com­mittee of the Board of Trustees will render a decision on them in mid-JMarch. 
in action. 
If Such A Conference • • • 
fay Richard W. ConUin 
Assist. Director of Pubiic Information 
I have come to doubt that opinion which insists that pornographic ma­terial does not contribute to actual sexual degradation, debasement, de­humanization, and even semial crime —James H. Smylie, Commomveal, Feb. 28, 1969 
^Yhat I have been arguing is that pornography, like any literature, is a way of fcnowing . . . Pornography then, for better or loorse, is the imag­inative record of man's sexual will . . . Not to ex]ilore the impulse to pornography is a form of denying human sexuality—Peter Michelson, New Republic, Dec. 10, 1966 
What emerges when one reads some of the classics of erotica is the fact that they too are intensely conven­tionalized, that their repertoire of fantasy is limited, and that it merges, ahnosc imperceptibly, into the dream-trash of straight, mass-produced por­nography—George Steiner, Encounter, October, 1965 
3 M ICIIELSON believes pornography is laden with significance; Steiner thinks it is a crashing bore; Smylie feels it is a social evil. 
Since we are faced with a disparity of opinion among experts on this sub­ject, perhaps Notre Dame ought— someday—to have a conference which explores, say, pornography and cen­sorship. 
What is the difference between legal obscenity and hard core pornogi'aphy? Should there be any censorship for adults? For non-adults? Is exposure to pornography psychologically and/ or sociologically harmful? Just what is the function of pornography in society? These are but a few of the questions such a conference could confront. 
If such a conference ever comes to be, I have a few suggestions. 
1) To begin with, assuming stu­dents to be the sponsors of the con­ference, they ought to choose a faculty advisory committee to work closely inti-oduce pornographic materials in­to the conference. Some will argue that it is impossible to study the sub­ject without examining examples; others will counter with the analogic ai-gument that one can study LSD without taking a trip. If the foiiner position cai-ries the day, other prob­lems arise. 
3) A lawyer should immediately join the advisory committee if he is not already there. As the Constitution is now construed by the U.S. Supreme Court, hard core pornography does not enjoy the protection of the First Amendment, nor does the University, whose property is to be used for the conference, enjoy any immunity from civil law. 
4) And if pornographic materials are going to be part of the con­fei-ence, it behooves planners to re­strict ticket sales to the University community in order to protect the aca­demic integrity of the conference. If access to tickets is such as to make it possible for curious teeny-boppers from town to show up in the audience, the classroom referent is compro­mised. 
5) A nagging question of quantity remains. Is it necessary to have ma­terials from each medium—^from film a?ifZ litei'ature, for example—^in order to provide a basis for judgment, especially in view of the fact that the themes of pornography are repeti­tious? "The plain ti-uth," wi-ites Steiner, "is that in literary erotica as well as in the gi-eat mass of 'dii-ty books' the same stimuli, the same con­tortions and fantasies, occur over and over with unutterable monotony." Steiner's observation is quite possibly true on a cross-media basis. 
6) There will be a temptation to feel that if both poles of the por­nography debate are invited to the conference the desired balance will be built in. However, what is really needed is a strong middle—a number of academicians from arts and letters and the social sciences—to represent the range of scholarly opinion. And the more closely such opinion is tied to actual presentation of material, the better. The presence of such critical comment (in the widest sense of that term) is one of the things which dis­tinguishes conferences from festivals. 
jWay I offer my own program sug­gestion: a three-cornered debate be­tween Michelson, Steiner, and Smylie? It would be a lot more interesting than the average pornographic film. 
g^Ki 
•;Sh'fe­

i-F^l^ 
Celebration of the ND Law Centennial included an academic procession and the words of guests Brennon (top), Alioto, 



ND Barristers Celebrate First 
FEBRUARY 7 and 8 marked the cen­tennial celebration of the Notre Dame Law School with several Alumni present to exchange their Bachelor of Law degrees for the degree of Juris Doctor. February 1, 1869, the Law School opened its doors and thus claims the title "oldest Catholic Law School in the country." The obser­vance began with a 1 P.M. Red Mass at Sacred Heart Church with the homily given by Rev. John Dunne CSC. 
The second major event was a three-session symposium on "Human Rights and the Law." Harris Wofford, pres­ident of State University College at Old Westbui-y, New York, delivered the first paper on "The Moi-al Basis of Human Rights." Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco, spoke at the second session on the "Moi-al Basis of Violence." The symposium concluded with Professor Robert S. Pasley of the Coi'nell Law School discussing "The Moral Basis of Legal Educa­tion." 
A Saturday afternoon academic convocation, with Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan as the principal speaker, concluded with the conferring of honorai-y degrees on former law dean Joseph O'Meara and retired ND law professor William D. Hollinson. 
Lieutenant Governor Raymond Broderick of Pennsylvania spoke on "The Notre Dame Law School: The Past" at a Friday evening reunion dinner. A centennial luncheon on Saturday spotlighted the school's year abroad program in England with Dr. George Keeton, University of London, as the speaker. Dr. Keeton spoke about the Year Abroad Program in 

An Inside Joh 
m. HE exterior transfiguration taking place in the fonn of two new high-rise dormitories currently under con­stioiction on the northeast edge of the Campus will be continued in the inner sanctum come next June 1. 
Plans to renovate 13 of the dorms on Campus are now being completed with the prime objective of relieving overcrowded conditions. Specifically that means that the total of "too many students" will be cut from 1020 to 167! Eev. Jerome Wilson CSC, vice-president for business affairs, pointed out that as a result of a re­cent study completed by the architec­tural firm of Ellerbe & Co. of Min­neapolis, the renovation will be un­dertaken in June and, hopefully, will be completed by September. 
As an over-all recommendation the company suggested changing to a suite arrangement which would pro­vide a study-living room area adja­cent to the sleeping rooms. According to a summai-y of renovation plans. 
there will be four quads, 223 four-man suites, 128 three-man suites, 56 triples, 39D doubles, and 491 singles for a total of 2,757 beds. Some pai'lors, lounges, study rooms, women's rest­rooms and maintenance rooms will also be added at a loss of about 50 beds. New furniture will be provided for all the suite lounges and the cor­ridor halls will be carpeted. 
This first phase of the Campus-wide renovation will cost $750,000. Although board and room fees will pi-obably be increased, they will not cover the expense of these capital im­provements, and another million dol­lars will be needed for phase two of the renovation. However, guided by the expertise of the men in the field. University ofiicials feel that extending the use of these older halls for an­other 20 yeai-s is a necessaiy and worthwhile investment, and in the long run will save ND between §1 and $2 million. 
ND's better "edge" progresses. 
Pasley and Broderick. 
lOO 
London initiated this yeai\ He ex­plained to those present how the progi-ani was opened to second-year Law students of Notre Dame and was conducted in conjunction with tlie Faculty of Laws of University College, University of London. 
The observance closed with a cen­tennial banquet addressed by Dean William Lawless and Father Hes-burgh. In his closing remarks the ND president challenged law alumni to be ready to sacrifice al". to fulfill the demands of their consciences. 
Laetare Recipient 

WW ILLIAXI J. Brennan, Jr., Asso­ciate Justice of the United States Supreme Court, has been named the 88th recipient of the annual Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor. The announcement was made March 16, Laetare Sunday, by University president Eev. Theodore Hesburgh. 
The 62-year old jurist thus becomes the 70th man and the second Supreme Court justice to receive the honor which has been bestowed on an out­standing Catholic layman annually since 1883. Chief Justice Edward D. White was honored in 1914 and 18 women have also been accorded the honor over the yeai-s. 
The Laetare Medal is given an­nually to a Catholic layman who has distinguished himself in his chosen field of endeavor and who has also led an exemplary private life. The 1968 recipient was E. Sargent Shriver, current U.S. Ambassador to France. Over the years it has been awarded to statesmen, soldiers, teach­ers and politicians. 
Brennan is considered one of the foremost jurists of his time. After earning his law degree from Hai-vard in 1931 he practiced law in his home state of New Jersey before being named as a trial judge for the New Jersey Superior Court in 1942. In 1949 he was chosen to the New Jersey Supreme Court and in 195? President Dwight D. Eisenhower named him to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
Mr. Justice Brennan is a staunch defender of individual liberty and human and civil rights. He is a strong believer in the dignity of man and has devoted the better part of his life to public service. He has written many majority opinions in his tenure on the nation's highest court and is very well known for his legal opinions on pornography. 


The Passing of An 
M. HE Notre Dame community lost an elder statesman and one of its most beloved citizens with the March 6 passing of Herbert E. "Herb" Jones '27, business manager of athletics. He had been hospitalized for three weeks prior to his death due to a heart ailment. 
Jones initiated what was to eventu­ally become a 47-year association with the University as a worker in 1921. After serving as secretaiy to two University presidents, Rev. James Burns and Rev. Matthew Walsh, he enrolled in classes in 1923. While a, student he sei-ved as secretaiy to ND football immortal Knute Rockne be­fore assuming the post of assistant business manager of athletics upon liis graduation. He moved up to busi­ness manager in 1940 and during the final year of World War H was en­trusted with the general business affairs of the University. 
The Dixon, 111. native was instm­

mental in the monumental growth of the ND athletic progi-am over the years and was generally recognized as an astute administi-ator. During his tenure the athletic budget and revenues soared over the §1 million mark. 
Active in the National College Busi­ness Managers Association, Jones served as president of the organiza­tion in 1955. He was named College Business Manager of the Year in 1967 and was the recipient of the Man of the Year Award of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in 1966. 
Jones was also active in local and civic affairs. He was a former pres­ident of the South Bend Association of Commerce and Industry and a member of the South Bend Rotary Club board of directors, as well as an active member of the Knights of Columbus and an honoraiy member of the ND Monogram Club. He spent the past five years deeply involved 
Herbert E. Jones '27, a long-time Notre Dame 
^ 
;^fc>^:-.f^-:->Tyi^t.« ,^->'^•-:.^;;?^Vt^^.•-<^;i•:;*:nY;::->C^;;v?^^V/:^a•-J>>'^^^ 
Era 
in the planning of the recently-com­pleted Ahtletic and Convocation Cen­ter on Campus and also had a hand in illanning the construction of the Not-e Dame Stadium. 
Commenting on Jones' death, ND executive vice president Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, who also serves as chaii-man of the faculty board in control of athletics, said, "Herb's departure will be keenly felt. It is impossible to exaggerate the contribution he made to Noti'e Dame in general and to the athletic program in particular over his lifetime at this University. Herb was admired by everyone who knew him for his integrity, his ability, his vitality and his total devotion to Notre Dame. Our loss is tnily a great one." 
The rennovation of Sacred Heart Church was temporarily suspended for the requiem mass celebrated by University president Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh on March 10. 
glJllMig COLV3MN 
An Unessential Gap 
by Michael McCau/ey '69 
Senior Arts & Letters Major 

SHAKESPEARE himself could not have schemed up a moi-e tragic script than that which was unveiled at Notre Dame in the days and weeks follow­ing the commencement of the Por­nography and Censorship Conference. It was a classic example of two main characters (in this case, the students and the administration) drawn into a senseless and impassioned confronta­tion by innumerable protagonists (in­cluded here would be irresponsible student leaders, outsiders from the Citizen for Decent Literature, dis­honest advocates of "the new Art form" — commonly knows as "por­nography," and shortsighted admin­istrators). 
As trite and "old hat" as it may sound, the whole debacle could have been avoided if there had been more communication between the students and the administration. Because of this vital lack of dialogue, students wrongly accused the administi-ation of causing the violence by calling in the police, and the administration gen­ei-ally claimed that student leaders had acted irresponsibly and that stu­dent I'adicals were purposely attempt­ing to foment a violent confrontation, regardless of any attempts at rea­soned negotiation. 
But the communication gap goes much deeper than a mere lack of dialogue. Its underlying cause is a deepening difference in the concep­tion of what a modern university should be. The traditionalist admin-isti-ators feel that freedom on the campus has a limit—which is usually defined in vague teims by the use of such words as "community" and civ­ility." Libei-al students see the uni­versity as being totally free and un­scathed by a society that is under­going a sickening decay. They see the university as a place to experi­
ment with all types of ideas, styles, 
and yes—even "art forms" that the 
traditionalists call "pornographic." 
The essential gap, then, is one of at­
titude and philosophy of education.— 
not merely tactic and policy. 
Let no one exaggerate the situa­

tion at Notre Dame by comparing the 
recent police disturbance and Father 
Hesbui*gh's subsequent pronounce­
ment of immediate expulsion for vio­
lent demonstrators to the general 
status quo of education at other 
American universities like San Fran­
cisco State, Wisconsin, Berkeley, or 
Columbia. The recent disturbance at 
Notre Dame was really rather mild 
and totally unusual for this Campus, 
given the nature of its students. It 
did more to damage the "image" of 
traditional Notre Dame than it did to 
jeopardize the remarkable amount of 
academic freedom that exists on this 
Campus. 
For those concerned with keeping the "lid" on Noti-e Dame, rest as­sured that our student radicals are genei-ally a pathetic bunch of non­confoimists. In fact, most knowledge­able students at Notre Dame are downx-ight embarrassed by the apa­thetic and "milk-toast" nature of our student radicals. In this state of i-apid transition and change, you can expect periodic outbursts, such as the one that occurred with the pornog­raphy conference, but they will be as insubstantial as that one was, and cei-tainly Noti-e Dame's motley group of radicals will never do anything to seriously jeopardize the fabric of the University's academic freedom — un­less, of course, you think that fabi-ic is the school's image. 
For those people truly concerned with Notre Dame as a university, you can be both encom-aged and disti-acted by the actions of the administration and the students. Be glad that Father Hesburgh had the courage and intel­ligence to protect the University from violence — both fx-om within and without. Be saddened by the fact that he ignored all open channels of com­munication in issuing that pronounce­ment — especially the Student Life Council. Be disturbed that many stu­dents still act immaturely and force their desires on the unwilling sectors of the community by use of the same violence and hate which they so often protest against. But finally, be en­couraged that most intelligent stu­dents at Notre Dame are as confused as you are, but they ai-e genuinely committed to the peaceful and sincere search for truth at Notre Dame — a truth they can express in their life action, regardless of "image" or the threat of force. 
n 


ND Benefactor Passes Away 
MRS. ELL.\ L. JMORRIS, civic leader and philanthrojiist whose lifetime was devoted to the South Bend community and Notre Dame, died on February 19. "One of a very few women to receive an honorary doctorate from Notre Dame, Ella Morris was surpassed by none in her devotion to the Univer­sity," wrote Father Hesburgh in a statement issued ujjon her death. 
Mrs. Morris was the widow of Ernest M. Alorris who died in 1951. The Jlorrises made innumerable con­tributions to both the city and the University. Named in their honor, the Morris Inn is one of their mon­umental contributions. In 1959 Mrs. Morris presented a deed for the Palace Theater to the people of South Bend. At the suggestion of the mayor the theater was renamed Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Her interest in Notre Dame inspired her to organize the Women's Advisory Council, now an effective and integi-al part of the University's councils. She sei-ved as president of this council for 15 years. 
Dotting the community are things like the Morris School for Crippled Children, Morris Conservatory for Flowers, an interns' residence at Memoi'ial Hospital, various scouting centers and lodges, and a reseai-ch chemistry lab, all of which she and lier family presented to the community in the interest of making South Bend a better place in which to live. 
In his statement on her death Father Hesburgh expressed the senti­ments of the Notre Dame Community by saying, "With her late husband, she will always be remembered prayer­fully at this Universitj' whose life they shared for more than half a centuiy and toward whose growth they contiibuted so much." 


Help tor Retarded From 
o\v IN its first year of operation, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Associa­tion for Retarded Children is provid­ing a full week's complement of activ­ities for retarded individuals in the St. Joseph County area. 
Heading up the organization is senior Jerry Loughlin, a pre-med stu­dent from NYC. He worked with former ND football grid captain Rocky Blier and several St. Mary's girls to establish the group last spring. 
Geared primarily to the approxi­mately 400 trainable and educable retardates whose parents are members of the St. Joseph County Council for the Retarded, the group's program is currently only realizing about one tenth of its potential. 
"We usually only get about 40 kids —^sometimes as many as 60—^to come to our activities," said Loughlin. 
"Transportation is the problem." He said many of the parents are unable to provide their children with rides to and from the activities and often the volunteers must stay on Campus for lack of a ride. 
They need a bus. 

Probably the most popular event these days is the Saturday morning ti-aining sessions conducted in the old ND fieldhouse. Planned with an eye to the State Olympics for Retarded to be held in Indianapolis June 6 and 7, 
Since all of the retardates involved in the program live at home with their parents, they do not receive the extra-curricular activities often of­fered by institutions. The ND-SJIC group fills in here. 
Many of the retarded group attend special education classes, while others work in supervised workshops dui'ing the day. But after school or work. 
Organizer Jerry Loughlin 

iVJ>, SMC 
they are able to take part in the group activities. Bowling is offered for an hour and a half every Monday, and a special Boy Scout troop meets twice a month. There is swimming Tuesday afternoon, followed later that night with basketball practice at the Moreau Seminaiy gymnasium. 
Each Wednesday aftei-noon, in­struction on the piano and sevei-al wind instruments is available—some of which may be put to use at the weekly social conducted Thursday nights. 
One problem encountered by many ND community oriented pi'ojects is the usual slow-down and often col­lapse they experience during vacation periods. Loughlin, who has reci-uited about 50 high school students to sup­plement the combined 80 from ND and S5IC, plans to make assisting the retarded a year-round project in South Bend. 
BUMEFS 



Grand Prix 
The first annual Notre Dame Grand Prix will soon be a reality. Plans are now in the final stages for the I'ace which will be held on a half-mile course in the parking lot of the Athletic & Convocation Center in mid May. The race will be run according to International Carting Federation rules and will be preceeded by a weekend of time trials to determine starting positions for the race. Ap­proximately 25 carts have been en­tered by the halls and clubs on campus. 

Coed nut 
The Student Senate has passed a bill mandating the university to estab­lish itself as a coed institution. It pointed out that the university had failed to provide a proper social atmosphere for the students to live in as its reason for the bill. At the same meeting the senate also passed a motion to include three St. Mary's girls as cheerleaders on the ND cheerleading squad. 

TraveUntf Ptat/ers 
The latest in the ND-SMC Co-opera­tive Department of Speech and Drama is a group of traveling players. The group of seven senior students from ND and St. Mary's will travel to 22 states to present "A Group of AVay­ward Saints" before the end of the semester. The group was fonned to celebrate the 125th Anniversaiy Cele­bration of St. Jlai-y's College. The playei'S also participate in the drama presentations here on Campus and will make-up part of the cast for the upcoming production of Camelot. 

S3IC ConfUet 
Eight faculty membex-s at St. Maiy's College were recently given notice that their conti-acts would not be renewed next year, a move which occasioned considerable protest from many SMC students. 
The students disputed sevei-al of the dismissals, claiming that the teachers involved were in fact com­petent and in some cases were "among the best teachers" the students said they have had at St. Marys. 
The students asked the SMC Rank 

and Tenure Committee to reconvene 
to reconsider the decisions, but the 
request was denied because, according 
to St. Mai-y's President Msgr. John 
J, McGrath, "There has been no 
evidence, either oral or written, 
presented by the students to warrant 
a re-examination of the decisions 
which have been made." 
He said he would favor, however, 

consultation with students to help 
determine competence of teachers in 
the future. 

Maeh Forum 
A Community Forum on Black Power co-sponsored by SUAC and the city of South Bend will be held at ND on March 16-20. Highlighting the forum will be talks by Adam Clayton Powell and James Fai-mer and a debate be­tween Dick Gregory and Andrew Hatcher. To round out the conference films on the Black Power movement will be shown and a panel discussion between civic leaders and an ND pro­fessor will be held. 

No ROTC RevieMW 
The annual review of ROTC cadets by Father Hesburgh has been can­celled this year. The decision was made by Col. Victor Ferrari, com­mander of the Air Force ROTC unit after consulting with the commanding officers of the Army and Navy units. Citing the reason for concellation as part of an effort to upgrade the show­ing of ND ROTC students in their summer progi-am, Ferrari said that his decision was in no way influenced by the threat of an antimilitary demonstration such as the one that disrupted last year's review. 

Cahitt Ejected 
Bob Cahill, ND ticket manager, has been elected third vice-president of the College Athletic Business Man­agers Association (CABMA). This is the first time in the history of CABMA that one member institution has been honored by electing a sec­ond representative. Herb E. Jones served as president in 1956. 


CLASSES 
:^">-^.i:-^'iii^??:c^^'^^vCr'^^^ 
:-r^zz-^--. 
Football enthusiasts •poured out of yesterday's scrapbooks and today's headlines to honor Frank Leahy. 
^^The Master^^ 
FIFTEEN years to the day after his dramatic resignation as head football coach of the Fighting Irish, Francis William Leahy '31, alias "The Mas­ter," returned to receive the accolades of the men of Notre Dame and the sports world. 
More than 1200 former players, ex-rivals, fi-iends, business associates and sports fans turned up for the January 31 testimonial in the con­course of the new Athletic and Con­vocation Center. They came from far and near to pay tribute to a man generally recognized as one of the most gifted artisans in the world of sport. 
Toastmaster Dave Condon, of the Chicago Tribune sports staff, spent a good part of the evening introduc­ing an ari-ay of sports luminaries who participated in the tribute to the ex-ND coach. Included among the throng were the four Heisman Trophy win­ners Leahy coached, Angelo Bertelli, John Lujack, John Lattner and Leon Hart, and the one he recruited but didn't coach, Paul Homung. More than 150 of the "Coach's" foimer players were on hand for the fes­tivities. 
The rostrum was busy all evening as numerous speakers recounted ex­periences and incidents relating to Leahy. Former Georgia coach Wally Butts commented that there was never any doubt in his mind that "Coach Leahy was the greatest of them all and deserved a place in the Football Hall of Fame." Foi-mer pro-great Sid Luckman, who was recruited by Leahy to teach the T-formation to the 1942 team, said, "I learned more football from Coach Leahy than any other man." 
Speaking for his foi-mer players, Lujack told Leahy, "It was not only a privilege to play for you, but it was a great thrill just to have known you." Tributes also poured in by tele­gram. Among those received were messages fj-om former President Ei­senhower, Mayor Daly, Supreme Court Justice Byron White, Bing 

Returned 
Crosby, Richard Cardinal Cushing, 
and the old Gipper himself Gov. 
Ronald Reagan. 
In a somber and serious end to the 
evening's festivities, Leahy called on 
his "lads" to serve their countiy when 
it most needs their help to fight off 
the "red menace of communistic ag­
gi-ession." He said, "I never thought 
anything this nice would happen to 
me. But let me tell you this, with all 
the sincerity I can command, that 
none of this would be possible if it 
weren't for the truly wonderful play­
ers and assistant coaches it was my 
g^reat fortune to work with here on 
the Campus of Our Lady." 
The testimonial was sponsored 
jointly by the Notre Dame Alunmi 
Clubs of Michigan City and Chicago. 
Bob McBride '47, who played and 
coached under Leahy, was chairman 
of the event. Mike Cauley '52, presi­
dent of the Michigan City Club, and 
Joe Archibald '50, president of the 
Chicago Club, were co-chairmen. 

Honor MeGrath 
^MONG NAMES such as Bamabas Ahem C.P., Bernard Haring C.SS.R., and Karl Eahner, S.J., all members of the Theological Commission of Vat­ican II, there was one man especially familiar around ND, Bishop Marcos 
G. McGrath C.S.C. '45. Now a second honor has been conferred upon him. Pope Paul VI recently named him Archbishop of Panama to succeed Archbishop Mendez whose resigna­tion was announced Dec. 30. 
Archbishop McGrath thus returns to the ai'chdiocese he served as aux­iliaiy bishop from October, 1961 to March 1964. He has been active in developing common policies for the Church throughout Latin America. 
As a member of the Theological Commission of Vatican II he spoke out forcefully on the role of the laity in the Church. His influence was strong in the framing of various sections of the Council document on the Church in the World. At the Council he was also one of the leading figures in the discussion on Latin American affairs. 
Archbishop McGrath came to ND in 1940 and two years later entered the Holy Cross Seminary here. He received his B.A. in 1945 then con­tinued his studies for the priesthood at Holy Cross College in Washington, 
D.C. He was ordained a priest in 1949 in Panama. 
After further studies at the Catholic Institute of Paris and the Angelicum in Rome he returned to Latin Amer­ica where he worked among the poor, taught theology at the University of Santiago, and sei°ved as chaplain to lay groups involved in missionary and social work. In 1961 he was conse­crated Bishop in the Cathedral of Panama, the same church in which he was ordained 12 years earlier. 
CLASS NOTES 

'15 RANCH-WISE A note from the Henry J. Frowleys '15 reports that they are all well but very busy on the ronck^- -Weather-wise they say it has been cold but the winter in the v/estern part of the stote has not been as extreme as in the easiern sec­tion. Around Sioux Falls So. Dale, they say the snow measures 65 inches on the ground. We are indebted to Mrs. Frowley for a news­paper clipping about their son Henry Frowley Jr. '60. The item read as follows:—"Only a week was the time in which Henry Frawley Jr., young rurol Deadwood rancher had in which to pre­pare for his task as emcee for the first Miss South Dakota-Universe Pageant ever to be held in the state. "The event took place in Rapid City Jon, 18 and so successful was Fraw/ey's emceeing tixat it brought a special commendation from Rubert 
E. Porkinson of Miss Universe, Inc., who served OS one of the four outstanding judges. Parkin­son, who was one of Ohio's fop college athletes, was twice named one of the nation's top ten disc jockeys and was quick to appreciate the talent of Frawley who has a master's in drama, and he ordered o special curtain call for the excellence of hir work." The mail ad­dress of the Frowleys is Rt. No. 2 Speorfish, So. Dakota 57783. 
Along with Christmas greetings Robert L. Roach '15 reported that he hod hoped to get over to ND this Fall but couldn't make it. He said he would like to see the new buildings and talk with some of the top officials about some of the hard to understand occurrences on the Campus. "Too bad ND gets so much adverse publicity along with all the good news." Doubt­less there ore many alumni who feet chagrined and distressed about news emanating from dear old ND. 
Following is a bit of interesting news from and about Hugh A. Barnhart '15: " I am amazed that I hove reached the age of 75 years and am still able to get down to my office to see what is going on around town. Following my stoy at ND I entered Indiana U. After World War I, I returned home and published our family newspaper. The Rochester Sentinel. Then in 1934 when my father passed away I became president of the Rochester Telephone Company and have tried to keep my hand on both busi­nesses until recently when younger fellows hove taken over the command. Retirement will be the next step. 
" I also indulged in politics ond was head of a state department for eight years in the copitol at Indianapolis. Also hod a dollar a year job in Washington but never received my dollar." 
Am happy to hove received some news from John McShone '15 who resides at 5156 College Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46205. John writes that "The years are going somewhat foster. In my retirement I find it quite difficult to do some of the things I would like to do: to fish — to hunt. My son in Crosse Pointc got o four prong deer weighing 185 lbs one month ago. He has been out six times in six weeks. We ore going North for the Holidays for a few weeks. I would 
assume from your comments in the Alvmnus that 
you ore quite busy. The Alumni here ore going strong." I appreciate hearing from members of the 50-year Club beginning with the class of 1891. 
Albert A.  Kvhie  
117 Sunset  Ave.  
La Grange, III. 60525  
'16  STIL L LOST?  
Grover Miller  
7208 S. Morn St.  
Racine, Wis. S3403  
'1 7  TIRED .  GRANDPA ?  

Former Lifers and those who ore qualified and interested in the revival of the ND Lifers Asso­
ciation, please write to the undersigned and give the years when you were in prep school and when you received your degree. This could be the most exclusive group among the Alumni Association and perhaps we could have a re­union during a football weekend next foil if enough are interested and respond quickly. Shades of Cop Fbrley. Snakes, Just and the Growler. Come on, let's hear from you tired and retired grandpas. 
Hughie O'Neills' favorite sport after golf is deep-sea fishing around the Great Bahamas where he just might be right now. Before he left he denied that his nicknome was Howard Hughes omong Cleveland financial circles. 
D. E. Hilgartner, Jr. 
P.O. Box 75 
Harberf, Michigan 4911S 

'18 SEND "OODLES" 
Wedding congrotulofians: Oct. 3., WiHiom H. ICeIfy, LLB '13 33 Oceon Ave. Palm Beach, Fla. 33404, was married to Eleanor at St. Francis De Soles Church, North Kingstown, R.I. Bill has a birthday coming up April 28, send 'em two cords with 'oodles' of health and happiness. Funeral high Mass was sung in Blessed Sacra­ment Church, Denver, Jon. 22 for James F. Hanlon, a resident of Mullen Home for the Aged, died Jon. 19 after long illness. Jim hod been agent for the New York Life Insurance Co. for 35 years. Married Verda Brockney Aug. 5, 1950. Survivors include his widow and step­daughter. Sister Ann Martin, S.C of Pueblo. May he rest in peace. 
Send Birthday Greetings; Mar. 4 March F. Wells, LLB '15 1901 E. Toylor St. Bloomington, 
III. Mar. 11, Broulio A. Munecos, EE '16 10084 Borgmon St. Huntington Woods, Mich. 48070. Mor. 27 E. 'Morrie' Starrett, '18 419 Quincy St. Pt. Townsend, Wy. 98368. Also, the "All Am. Water Boy" and Virginia were married on the 27th. Mar. 31, Hugh S. Carroll, BS-MS '18 338 Mountain View Ave., Son Rafael, Calif. Apr. 6 George E. Horbert LLB '18 3521 15th St. Court, Rock Island, III. 
Apr. 9 John J. Voelkers '18 1006 Wesley Ave. Oak Pork, III. 60304. Apr. 26. Dr. Neil 'Whiley' 
J. Whalen BS '18. 1023 Codieux Rd. Grosse Pointe, Mich. Apr. 28 Allen W. Frilzsche '18 575 Washington Ave. Elyria, Ohio. 44035. 
Wedding Anniversary. Apr. 4. Maximilian G. Kozus LLB '18 and Mary, 101 Knox Ave. Buffalo, 
N.y. 14216. Apr. 14. Or. Kene Rodriguez, Phg. '18 and Annie, 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80206. Apr. 15. James t. Sweeny '18 1254 Milwaukee, Denver, Colo. 80205. Apr. 15. Louis H. Foffet BCom '18 1303 W. Oak St. Nor­ristown. Pa. 19401. 
Just a reminder for you "guys* not to forget the flowers. Chonge address of WilHam J. Noonan '18 814 E. Gregory St. Pensacola, Fla. 32501. You remembei 'Pete' the monogram long-distance trackmen. Lambert Q. Seng '18 reports enjoying good health and appreciated cord from 'Whitey' Whalen. Still looking for his 50-year diploma—how about it, John? John 
J. Voelkers phoned that William J. Andres is returning to Campus in June—to be with his grandson and 'stand-in' for the youth's father on DADS DAY. 
James P. Logan writes that he was unoble to attend Hanlon's services as Jeanette, his wife, hod cousin in L.A. air crash. James L Sweeny also notified me about Jim's passing. James L. plans annual visit to ND in June. States that Leo J. Vogef will be there also and that one of Leo's boys will be 21 this year. Talked with Peter J. Roncheiti, monogram in football and track. Pete states he gets in some golf every day ond believes that he still has his old putter. Annie (Mrs. R.) sounded cheerful ond in good health. Sorry the fingers changed Chubby Corcoron to read 'HUBBY.' 
Thomas J. O'Meora writes while in Chicago 
Christmas time I overheard o secretary angrily 
announce to o female companion in o 'loop* 
elevator, "My boss is a consummate ass and 1 
don't care whether he graduated at Oxford, 
Harvard or ND." 1 tried to get this on the 
back of a yellow card as requested, but I'm too 
garrulous. Thanks, Tom, we oil oppreciate hear­
ing from you. 
Robert A. Cooney '30. 2000 F. Street NW. 
Washington, D.C. 20006, sent me picture and 
negative of two 'guys' marked "em Red and 
Lottie—and asked me to forward. I was 
stumped—until Richard J. Monroe fKedJ '12 
845 Irving Park Rd. Chicago, III. 60613 phoned 
and asked if I hod the picture. Sure was 
pleased to send 'Red' the picture and write 
Cooney who 'Red was and that Monroe sure 
would let him know who the South Bend man 
'LoUie* is. 
Plan to be on Campus Feb. 10, and hope to 
get some 'real dope' on 'what's cooking' for 
this June 50-year Club reunion. I know a lot 
of you fellows plan to be there and I sure 
hope you can moke it, especially for the Alumni 
dinner. Appreciate hearing from you—^send a 
Birthday Greeting Card. If you have been 
missed—it's YOUR fault—let's have it. 
Floppy St. Patrick's Day 
Easter Greetings 
May you live to be 100—PEACE. 
George B. Wooge 3305 Wrig/itwood Ave. Chicogo, ///. 60647 
'19 WE GO UP. UP A cordial invitation to join in participation has been extended to oil "19"ers by The Uni­versity of Notre Dame for the honored fifty year class reunion, June 6-7-8. Most of the activities will fake place in the Morris Inn, which the wives moy attend and ore cordially invited. Details will be mailed to you soon, so make your plans now for "Up"-"Up" and oway for a glorious vocation and Reunion. Theodore C. Rademaker 154 W. 6th St. Peru, /ndiono 46970 
'20 REMEMBERING Francis J. C/ohessey come to ND 50 years ogo or a few years before, as he served with the U S Army during the 1st World War. He studied law under the trying period of Col. Hoynes when our law school was destroyed by fire. He was on ambitious young man from Waverly, NY, a small rural community in Southern New York State. At that time ND wos a little known Catholic college in the Middle West, just what many of us wanted, but it was the glamour and pub­licity of the Rockne-Dorois football defeat of the Army of West Point that inspired the decision to go West end attend ND. It was the time of the $600 Ford car with a crank in front to start the engine and a guarantee of thirty-ftve-hundred-mile tires, which seldom lasted that long. I doubt that we could pass the present-day standards for admission to most universities today, yet our class of 1920 has shown a record of achievement equal to any universities of todoy or yesterday. Francis Clohessey returned to Waverly and procticed low. He became the District At­torney of this county. He was elected to be County Judge and served from 1942-1965, then retired. His ability was broadly recognized, ond he served as visiting Judge in Queens, Nassau and New York counties for several years. He complained of not feeling well during this post summer and died Dec. 29. His daughter graduated from St. Mory's and is now o lawyer near Boston. His wife, with a strong NYC accent, said she must learn to live with the memory of o grand man. 
Raymond J. McCabe, formerly of Larchmonf, 
N.Y. sends a new address of 917 Bucido Rood, Delroy, Flo. 33444. 
Jim Dower reports that either he has too much accounting practice or his mental computer obility is slipping, because he must work Sundays ond every day to keep up his work. Jim, you will recall, was directed by Cardinal O'Hora to go to South Americo with Johnny Powers and John Bolfe to create good relations with South America. They all returned to the United States willingly and happy about their experiences. 
James H. Ryan 2470 East Ave. Apt. 314 Rochester, N.Y. 14670 
'21 CARDS. CARDS. CARDS 
Here ore notes gleaned from Christmas cards: 
Harold S. Foley: Dear Don: Thank you for 
your Christmas Greeting — I wish you and your 
family all the happiness possible at Christmas 
and the New Yeor. My home number is 604­
733-9723. 

Larry Morgan: Dear Don: Hod Christmas Card 
from Pot Bohan — 111 South Wilton Place, Los 
Angeles, Calif. 90004. Probably should be a 
member of our Class. My telephone number and 
area is 317-373-4267. Hope this finds you in 
good health. 

Jim Huxlord: Retired — not much work — 
yard man for Marion L. Golf and swim. Cock­
tails every afternoon — score 100 plus. See 
Kelly often in summer. We were rained on two 
golf gomes lost summer. We played the 19th 
at noon. Haven't seen Brandy in two years. 
Telephone No. 315-Ov-55097. 

Joe Moog: Dear Don: I am in Florida staying with my daughter and son-in-law, recovering from o coronary which hit me in early Novem­ber. The Florida sunshine is agreeing with me and my doctor tells me I should be as good as new in another month or six weeks. If you are planning o trip anywhere in southern Florida this winter, give me a ring. Maybe we can get together for a visit. 
My phone here is 305-754-4347. Address — 379 N.E. 100th Street. Miami, Fla. 33138. Kansas City phone (after Mar. 15) 816-444-7292. 
A. R. Abrams: Lee and I ore leaving this afternoon to spend New Year's in San Juon, and I also hope to get some rest and sun while there, hoping that it will make me feel better. Our telephone number here in Atlanta is area code 404-523-8601. I would enjoy hearing from you at any time. 
Bernard Carney: Am in fair to good health and so ore all our family — no new tods to report. You con reach me at the following numbers, area code: 918 — Ri 7-5859 (Home). Ri 2-2315 (Home and Business) Lu 4-7121 (Warren Pete.) 
A. B. Buline: I hove been out here in Portland selling X-Roy and Physical Theropy equipment. We watch the gomes every Saturday throughout the foil season and are thrilled at the way Ara has brought the team up to the top. It was nice to hear from you, Dan. Give my regards to any of the old gang bock there and the some for you. Telephone No. 1-503-771-3632. 
Paul Emmett Sweeney: I retired a few years ago, after 20 years as economist with the Fed­eral Government and don't have time for every­thing I would like to do. Soy, we oil used to think big in those lote, late sessions but do you recall anyone mentioning a trip around the moon in 50 years? As you requested, my phone number is 301-365-7192. Best wishes to both of 
you. 

Bill Allen: You ask for my telephone num­ber — 312-328-8785. It is good to know that you are in good health and full of the old Duffy spirit. The enclosed is from the New York Times. I hope you will enjoy it. I am pleased to hear that Brandy has the good judgment and cosh to go south for the winter. Please give my best to your wife. (Bill enclosed an article from the New York Times about Adam Walsh (King Mule for the Four Horsemen). 
Charlie King: Dear Dan: If you still want my phone number it's 309-762-0344. One of our clossmotes died last summer. Joe Meersmon, ME. His fomily advised someone, I think moybe R. 
Sehubmehl. 
T. "Cy" Kasper: I'm still enthused over ath­letics, being a Shuffleboord player in this Arthritics League — here in University City Village (odjoining Son Diego). 
John E. Kenney: Home Phone Plaza 5-4972. 
Just got back from one of my usual whirl­
wind business trips to Europe. Covered 
Paris, Lisbon and London. Terrible weather 
everywhere, but the business climate is good. 
i just hod a humorous picture occur to me in 
memory. You, and Slim Finsky and I racing in 
the refectory for seconds on butter. 
Jim Glover: Dear Mr. and Mrs. Duify: To be 
honest I connot remember you or what ship I 
met you on. Was it lost year on Bremen 
or year before on Empress of Canada? 
Get in touch with me if up this way after this cold winter. My phone is 1-203-229-0948. 
Don W. Duffy 
7030 Notionol City 8/dg. 
E. 6lh St. 
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
'22 SORROW IN MURPHY FAMILY 
Another clossmote has gone to his reword, Frank H. Murphy of 425 Menendez St. Venice, Fta., who died Jon. 30 in Venice Hospital. Frank was bom in Chicago, and moved to Venice from Peoria in 1966 after his retirement as public relations director of the Pobst Brewing Co. with 26 years of service in that capacity. We extend our deep sympathy to Mrs. Murphy (Adeline M.) wife of the deceased, ond to oil members of the Murphy family. 
The George Kervers of Cleveland report they had a full house at the Husband and Wife Retreat held on the ND Campus weekend of Nov. 14-17, and enjoyed the Retreat very much. Also, they reported their attendance at all of the home football games lost fall. 
Mrs. Edwin J. (Ilene) Byrne has moved back to Natchez (the old home town) where she has purchosed and beautifully restored on attractive little home located at 6>5 State Street, Natchez, Miss. 39120. Ilene is teoching now. 
The Doctor Don Sextons of Clayton, Mo. in the Saint Louis area visited in Hawaii in November and December, but we have no word that they come up on the Ray Kearns of Terre Haute, Ind., who were there at the same time. 
Rorido has been getting o lot of attention these winter days from '22 men. Our records seem to indicate only two class members live there on a permanent basis: Heartley "Hunk" Anderson of West Palm Beach and George Mc-Dermoff of Palm Beach. But the December icy blasts up north convinced many other '22 men that they really belonged in Florida for o spell. First to arrive were Fronk "Rongy" Miles and wife to visit their married daughter and family in Miami. Jon. 15, the Jim Jones were located at 809 S. E. 14th Drive, Deerfield Beach in the Fort Louderdole area. Then, in late January the Charlie Crowleys were in Lake Worth—their usual winter quarters. The Ralph Coryns will be under way before March sets in to visit the East Coast and West Coast. 
Joseph Ouffey of Short Hills, NJ recently visited Africa. His daughter, Kothy is a student 
c> Rosemont (Pa.) Col. 
In early February, Ihp Don Youngs were in Estoril, Portugal, en route to Fotima, Spain and Morocco. 
From the Froncis 0 . Otts in Burbank, Calif, comes this December sunny note: 
"It is hard to picture you in the Quoker City after all those years in the City of Lilacs, abundantly endowed with white, white snow (no smog) and lots of fishing through the ice. I see you put new life in the Philo. Basketball team; now how about a shot at the new complex on the Campus? You let UCLA do 

it agoinl Can onl/ report at the moment, the 
sun is shining--cactus, roses, orchids, periwinkle 
and goillardia are in bloom. We have been 
fortunate to come through the year but with 
lessening V.V. and V. A letter from Can­
andaigua today reports a great ice show in 
Rochester, and four below zero. Dominus 
tecum." End quote. Francis Otts. 
Never mind the yellow cobs it is the yellow 
cords we want with news tidbits. 
G. *'Kid" Ashe 
775 Landing Road, North Rochesfer, N.Y. 14625 
'23 CALUNG ALL WIDOWS 
G. A. Goessfing, o former student in 1919-20, and listed as a member of the Class of 1923, died July 12, 1968, according to word received from the Alumni office, in o copy of a letter mailed to the widow a few days before this went to press. I have no dossier on the man and no facts were avoilable from the A.A. office. The widow may be reached by mail at 22 Ridgetop, St. Louis, Mo. 63117. 
At the moment this secretary is engaged in the project of developing a moiling list of known widows of '23 clossmates. A few weeks ago it was brought to my attention that some of these "olumni'in-lows" have felt rather left out when ND moil stopped coming, foilowing the demise of their husbands. 
Investigation verified this fact and the project that hod long been in my mind resulted. Our Class newsletters will hereafter be mailed to all widows of '23 men. who con be located. A week or two ago I sent out some 50 letters inviting the ladies to respond by letter. Already I hove heard favorably from a number of them ond, sadly, a few of my tetters come back marked "addressee unknown." After all, as 1 said in my letter to them "Auld Long Syne" knows no gender—why cut them off from ND contacts? More about this later. 
Louis V. Bruggner 7667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A South Send, Indiana 46616 
*24 KEEP *EM ROLLING 
We've got that Mock Truck rolling, fellas. Now keep it up. Gene Mayl finally answered con­firming that he will be at the 45th Reunion of the Class in June. He hasn't missed many since *24. He will hove some of his contemporary teammates with htm. He advises that farrell Johnson, still rosy-cheeked, Jim A for/e Hurley, and Jim Swift all intend to be there. 
The Hon. Hugh C. Boyle, who was pictured in the ALUMNUS of a year or two ago as one of our class VIP's also wrote. He reminded me that he and I are the only two left of the West End quartet that warbled some barber shop harmony gratuitously to the natives back in the twenties. He promises to try it again in June. I haven't oiled my pipes in almost 25 years and I'm sure it would sound like it. 
les Foley writes from Jacksonville that Florida is a strong ND stamping ground. Frequent visitors include many of our contemporaries but not many of our classmates. He mentions Horry Mehre, Poul McNulty, Cene Carroll, Don Miller, Paul Castner, Frank Leahy, Jim Crowley, Johnny iufock, and others. If you don't know them and their Class identities, you should not be reading the notes of Class of *24 onywoy. Thanks, Les. 
The interest tn the Class Reunion [our 45th} in June is getting so much momentum that your secretary is getting snowed under with old familiar names. All the credit goes to Ed Caniwell who hod an idea on making this a GRAND REUNION. He worked out the details and the committee and it is working like o charm. 
Among those already committed to being on the Campus in June arc Ed himself, of course; Tom Barber who Ed says was his co-pilot on the idea and helping with the details; (Judge) Tom 
Congrais 

Robert L. JaekgoH '30 lias been awarded one of the hii^est honors in the field of diabetes, the Banting Medal, fnan the American Diabetes Association. Dr. Jackson heads the University of Mo. Medical Center Diabetes Clinic. 
Donald CfTooXe "31, chairman of the board of the four member banks of the Pollman Banking Gronp, has-received a timely honor for this month. President of the American Irish Fomidation. The Foundation awards grants to Irish and American scholars studying in the two countries. 
James B, Dale]f "39 is the newly elected Chief of Staff of St. John's Hospital, Cleveland. He will b^^in a two-year term terminating in Janu­ary, 1971. Dr. Daley now practices general surgery in Fairview Park, Ohio. 
J. E. Hieinbothem '40 has been ap­pointed vice president in charge of sales at Ril^ Sfadcer Corporation, Worcester, Mass. J. E. joined Riley in 1965 as district sales manager of the New England area. He was trans­ferred to Worcester in 1967. 
John J. Hannigan '41 has been elected vice president of operations for the Alan Wood Sted Cnnpany, Consho­hocken. Fa. Since he joined the company in 1951 he has filled several positions b^inning as open hearth foreman. Hannigan is a director of the EUistem section of the National Open Hearth Conference. 
Ravmomd F. Rowan '42 has been ap­pointed tiie assistant district manager for the Northwest of Austin Con­pany, Cleveland, Ohio. His office head­quarters will now be in Seattie. The Austin Co. is an international engi­neering and constmctitm firm. 
Oonovon who says that John Su//ivon, John Mc-Goorfy, Mike Schmill, and Vines Hollaren will be there, God willing. Pete Curran writes that he is going to try. Incidentally his youngest is a professor of Russian History at Ohio State. We might learn something if we tollced to Pete. I'm getting the fever myself, listing my resources and the possible scheduling of the time to comply with some of my other personal endeavors. The dotes of the GRAND REUNION ore Fri, Sat, Sun,—June 6, 7, 8. 
There will be dozens of more names by the time this column reaches print, so look in the next issue to see if your favorite buddy back in the first four years of the twenties is going to re-enter your life in June '69. Someone wrote we better make this one—^we might not last for the 50th, and those who do might be more interested in a game of checkers than golf. 
It should be mentioned that so many of the UB '24ers ore judges that you better consult your Class roster. I hope they will forgive me if I refer to them only by the title they hod in 1924. Apparently we hod the best football team ond the best scholars in '24. Maybe it created an inferiority complex in a few. 
Jomes P. Durcon 
5400 S.W. Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Porl/ond, Ore. 97225 
*25 ALUMNUS COPS AWARD I am sure oil you '25ers were thrilled to read 
the headline "Mr. Alumnus honored with Sorin 
Award." James E. Armstrong has brought great 
honor to our class with this achievement. He 
deserved the association's highest accolade. The 
final paragraph inscribed on his service award 
fits "Our Jim" to a "T" . . . "no one has 
equalled Jomes Elliot Armstrong as the finder of 
words for the wonders of ND, as a kindler of 
affection in the hearts of its sons." Jim, coff 
grotulotions from your classl 

Your secretary talked to Jim o few weeks ago and we will soon get together and formulate some plans for our 45th reunion in June, 1970. If you fellows hove some thoughts on this big event let me hear from you. 
/. t. Probst *26 was very thoughtful in advis­ing me of the death of John E. Kennelly Jan. 10. John has lived in Miami, Flo. for the past 23 years, coming from Chicogo. He wos super­intendent of claims for the Kemper Insurance Co. His widow Mary lives ot 9895 S.W. 74th St., Miami. He left two sons and a daughter. Our sympathy and prayers to the Kennelly Family. Honk Wurzer has odvised me that a class Moss is being said for John. 
Norberf F. Skeetey who is the new president of the ND Club of Solino, Kon., soys it is the smallest ND club in the world but it is very active. ND fellows at the Shilling Air Base join in some of the get-togethers. Our limited space prevents us from using the bundle of Kansas information sent from Norb proving it is really "God's Great Pork." 
No Identity Crisis 
EVER since the Congregation of Holy Cross received a state charter for Stonehill College Massachusetts, in 1948, the school has been tagged as the "Notre Dame of the East." A catchy nickname, perhaps, but to Stonehill's fifth president, Eev. John T. Corr CSC '46, ifs not particularly appro­priate. 
When the ALUMNUS visited Father Corr last summer at the North Easton, Mass., campus, he was wrapped up in the development of the small (1,300 enrollment) liberal arts college — and it was apparent that he was not about to settle for a place in the shadow of any Midwest-em golden dome. 
To look at Father Corr is to look at Stonehill College. After earning both bachelor's and master's degrees at ND, he assisted Bev. Pat Peyton in his Family Eosary proj'ect, taught at £ing's College and did administrative work at Stonehill. He assumed the presidency in October of 1964 and in the four years since has initiated and witnessed a good deal of growth from his hilltop oiBce overlooking the campus. 
Father Corr's inaugural promise to foster "independent thinking and in­tellectual grrowth" at Stonehill nears fulfillment with his open policy re­garding faculty appointments, guest speakers and student expression. His plans for expanding the physical fa­cilities are no longer on the drawing 
Rev. John Corr surveys the situation. 
Frank Steel sent word from Akron that Bemie Icy is now retired from the real estate business and has moved to Frceport, Tex. 
John P.  Hurley  
20S5 Brookdale  Kd.  
Toledo,  Ohio  43606  
'26  A LONG. LONG TIME  
J. N.  Gelson  
Gefson & Lowell,  Inc.  
200 E. 42nd St.  
New York, N.Y.  J00I7  
'27  IN 80  DAYS?  

The Alumni Office hos forwarded an extremely interesting letter from Everett C. Brown, which in capsule form thoroughly covers the period since he left ND. He has been a flying cadet, 
o member of the los Angeles Police Deportment, on inspector of Novo! ammunition, a world traveler, and finally a resident of the Canary Isles at Santo Cruz, Tenerife. He and his son have a bachelor apartment neor a tropicol park with a modest little zoo within its con­fines. His address is Romblo Gen. Franco 107, Santa Cruz, Tenerife, Islos Conorios Spain, and he undoubtedly would be happy to hear from his old friends. 
Waller W. (Red) Smith, perhaps the most famous syndicated spor!s columnist was married lost November to Mrs. John K. Weiss. You will recall that Red's first wife died last year. I know that we all wish the newly married 
boards but are gradually becoming a reality. 
Stonehill's growth has taken it in different directions than its Midwest-em cousin. It is small, co-ed and a college, while ND is large, all-male and a university. During a walk around the campus with Father Corr, it becomes obvious that he derives a great deal of pleasure from knowing the names of students, janitors, maids and other college employees. 
It's his x>ersonal rapport vrith the student community that Father Corr r^ards as a major factor in main­taining a stable and intellectual atmo­sphere at Stonehill. He readily admits that "the North Easton police force could do little more than go home if confronted by 1,300 students," but he is staunch in his belief that there will be no such difficulties "if the students feel free to come to me. My door is always open." 
The Holy Cross priest is really sold on the concept of coeducation. "Be­fore I came here I thought there was no real need for it but I've become aware of the tremendous value in it 
— both social and intellectual." At Stonehill the male-female ratio is 2-1. Father Corr believes coeducation re­sults in an increase in intellectual aggressiveness for both sexes. 
From all appearances, Stonehill Col­lege is well on its way toward the straightforward, honest search for the trnth, characteristic of a true educa­tional institution. Father John Corr is largely responsible; visiting with him bdps explain the unswerving path Stonehill is taking. 

couple o happy future. Red has a son. Ter­
renes, who is also in journalism as foreign cor­
respondent for the New York Times in South­
east Asia, and o daughter, Mrs. J. David Hol­
loron of Wausau, Wis. 
Roy Hunt, managing editor of the Philadtlphia 
Daily News, was honored ot a dinner in the 
Bellevue Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia recently 
in celebration of his 50th onniversary of en­
trance into newspaper work. Prior to his 
present position he worked ot the Chicago 
Times. It is true that there are still eight years 
to go before we are out of ND for 50 years, 
so I hasten to odd that Roy started his news­
poper career some time before he wos grad­
uated. 
With regret I am obliged to report the death of three classmates since my latest report. Clayton leroux was graduated from the College of Commerce at ND but later was admitted to the bar of Ohio and at the time of his death was a lawyer with the Federal Aviation Ad' 
ministration in Cleveland. He was the first 
recipient of the Notre Dome Man of the Year Award given by the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land. Af Duffy of Brooklyn, NY, also active in his region, died ot obout the same time. Al was Assistant Corporation Counsel of the City of New York. A month later a third lawyer passed owoy — Phil Clark of Danville, Ken. Notice of his death was sent by his son, Philip Jr. of the Class of '55. Separate Masses in behalf of our Class hove been said for the repose of the souls of oil these men, and their respective families have been advised. 
A few months ago it was my privilege to attend a testimonial dinner ot Flommond, Ind. given in honor of the former president of our Class, Mike Swygerf, upon the 25th anniversary of his appointment to the Federal Bench. Many dignitaries were present including judges from Illinois and Indiana ond other public ofBcials. The dinner was a well-deserved tribute to a man who has hod o distinguished career, first OS a judge of the United Stales District Court and later as a member of the United Stales Circuit Court of Appeofs. Some realization of the importance of the loiter position con be hod if we recall that when the lost vacancy on this particular Court occurred, a Governor of the State of Illinois, Offo4^erner, was appointed to fill it. The pleasant memory of this happy oc­casion, which Mike's wife Mildred shared with him, is dimmed by the fact of her death about two months later. She had been a port of his life for many years, and hod endured sorrow as well OS happiness. One son is practicing low in Chicago, another hod died. We must proy for the repose of the soul of this devoted wife ond mother. 
A day or two before these lines were written, ND was in the news again, this time about the demonstrotion which followed seizure of obscene films being shown to a Campus conference on pornography. In oddition to the physical protest of certain students, a written protest was mode by 30 or 35 faculty members. They deplore the attack upon what they call "academic freedom," which to their minds apparently is an obsolute right, and the ultimate goo! of o university. Perhaps they ore correct (although there ore arguments to the contrary), and they should be allowed to dignify what heretofore has occasionally been done surreptitiously with­out faculty approval. In any event, it seems to me that these exponents of academic freedom should exercise a little restraint, and manifest some moral responsibility toward the young men under their core. 
Clarence J. Ruddy i n W. Downer Ptoce 
Aurora, Illinois 6OS04 
'28 STATS THAT SADDEN Joe Kissling, on attorney with Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp., Belhpoge, NY died Dec. 30 after suffering for some time with emphysema. 
Joe received his LLB degree from Fordhom U. in 1931. He is survived by his wife Alice, three married daughters ond his mother, age 91. VIC Fischer who attended Joe's funeral Mass wrote that "the esteem in which Joe was held locally was very evident," 
A report has been received of the death of 
John A. Beirne July 19. 1968 in Milford, Conn. 
Biff Murphy represented our Class at the 
funeral of Ann Mohoney, the widow of John 
who died in August. 
Charley Murphy represented our Class at the 
rosary for Ed Cunningham and was joined there 
by the following: Vern Rickard, Judge Corberry, 
Mrs. leo Ward, Jim MeCabe, Ed Ash ond A. A. Scott. 
Our classmate. Rev Charles Hamel CSC chaplain at Notre Dome High School in Sherman Oakes, Calif, offered o Mass for the following classmates who hod died since our 40-year reunion: Don Rau, Johr Egan, John Mohoney, Ed Cunnmghom, Joseph Kissling and John Beirne. Thanks, Father, for this thoughtful re­membrance of our Class. 
Bob Graham has returned to his office after 
o long siege with plastic surgery following on outomobile accident. Ed McKeown is at home after a second hospitalization. Denny Daly was in the hospital at Christmas time with complica­tions resulting from diabetes. Rev. Andy Mulreany CSC underwent surgery just prior to Christmas but reported thot he is in fine con­dition now. Charlie Shelanskey has recovered from his cardiovascular operation and now refers to himself as a "plastic job." I was sorry to hear of the illness of Mrs. Dan Bradley 
and Mrs. Howard Phalin. 
Bill Murphy gave me a newspaper clipping concerning divorce proceedings involving celeb­rities before Superior Court Judge Merwyn Aggeler in California. Bill also gave me a photo of our deceased classmate John Egan taken when we were students at ND. 
Bern Garber advises that Ruth McMohon, widow of John F., is teaching high school in Pittsburgh; son John is Public Relations Monoger of the Cleveland Alcoa plant; and Michael is teaching at Pitt and expects his PhD this sum­mer. You will recall that these boys served Mass at one of our reunions. 
Rev. Andy Mulreany wrote that George 
Leppig's son. Bill, a senior at West Point, visited him last summer when he was in training at R. Hood, Tex. 
Judge 5/// Jones visited us in January when 
he was oltending o meeting as a member of the Council of the Section of Judicial Admin­istration of the American Bar Assn. in Chicago. 
Congratulations to John Igoe on being chair­man of one of the first ten SUMMA cities, Columbus, to go over their goal; to Joe Breig for the outstanding series of articles he wrote 
for the Catholic Universe Bulletin on his visit to 
Israel; to Gene Farrell on his two editorials which appeared in the memorial volume that Congress printed, rounding up tributes to the late President Kennedy and on his receipt of on award from the Hudson County Bar Assn. for formulating and developing o series of Public Low Forum to create a belter understanding of the lawyers and the law by the public. 
Jim Allan, Bill Murphy and your class sec­retary represented the Class at the wedding of Nancy, the daughter of our Class Vice Presi­dent, Bill Dwyer. 
Frank Donovan and his wife Louise will be in Scottsdale, Ariz., until April 1. They were on o Caribbean cruise in December with Rev. John Cavanaugh CSC, chaplain of the ship, ond Sernie Voll and his wife and fellow pas­sengers. Bill Dowdall and his wife ore visiting Europe in April. 
Charlie Shelanskey's son, a vocal teacher in the Great Neck was selected as the con­ductor for the All-Pennsylvania High School Slate Concert in Erie, Po., in February. 
Thanb to Stephon Shcpley '30, we hove lo­cated Al Atofcor who l a been. on oar un­
claimed list. Al is retired and livat at 5? 
Pineapple St., BrooUyn. N.Y. 11201. 
I believe Henry Motman't son, John, b Ih* 
first sen of a dosanote to serve on the NO 
Alumni Board of DireOocs. Kcnry has 17 grand­
children. His foriwr pB> celebrated fcis 90tb 
birthday. 
louts F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan *d . Chicago, III. 60626 

'29 40TH REUNION 
APPROACHING 

Joe Smietenia writes "U/ first dass rnmlon ot 
35 years will be followed by my second at 40 
years. I am already eioking plans to be with 
oil of you again. Larry, hod you heard that 
Frank f. Siudiinsk} who has Ihnd at 6739 N. 
Dowagiac, Chicago, died about a month ogo? 
Frank was a publicist, columnist, feature writer 
and public relations rcprcscntathre." (Your sec­
retory hod not previously been informed of 
Frank's death arid lakes this opportunity to 
assure Frank's family Hiot his many friends in 
the Class of '29 will remember him in their 
prayers.) 
We at ND ore making plans too for the 40th reunion. We hove mode a request to be assigned to Walsh Hell, fronds Flyrm and others who were here in June of '69 have high praise for Walsh, "the rooms are spa­cious, well lighted and many of them have privote baths. Moreover, Walsh has a beautiful lounge. This facility is of particular value if we run into rain. 
"In addition." writes Frank, "I thought the surcharge of $10.00 was a very good idea. It was used to supply additional paraphernalia such as a lie and identifying insignia. More importont, it was used to liefroy the costs of a bartender. One of the notoUe things about its maintenance was that it contributed to so­briety." 
Who but Francis Mwytr would be the first to 
suggest that the Class Picture be token in color 
this time. 
If it enters the mind of a reader that liquid refreshments may have priority over provisions for food, please be informed of midoftemoon and late evening bufht lunch furnished to all on both Friday and Saturday. This is at the residence hall. 
In the planning stage is the popular luncheon on Saturday for groups such os Engineers, Ac­countants, Journalists, etc .. . and of course the traditional Class cf '29 dinner on Friday night, and the Qoss Moss Saturday morning. 
Available to all is continuous bus transporta­tion, a Saturday-afternoon seminar on "Catholic Education, The end or the new beginning," also special tours, golf, foolboll highlights — if in­deed one has the indinotion to leave the ever­increosingly treasured conversation with one's real friends. 
From Jim Kennedy, "Like More Kirehner, I'm keeping my heart on schedule with digitoxin. I expect to lost for a few more reunions and plan to be with you in June. Someone who prayed for my son Tom is wearing a halo; Tom is recovering from his second brain tumor op­eration and hopes to. resume teaching next foil. My voice is getting bock to normal with thera­py every week at Mundelein College. Hope to resume golfing this spring. Now up to I I grand­children with only 5 of my 12 children mar­ried. A few copies of my '68 Christmas card ore still on bond for any dossmoles whom I missed. Son Bob '66 Bengal Boxing Chomp ex­pects to graduate from U. of Illinois Low School in June." 
Our condolences and prayers go to families of three more of your classmates, who we regret to report are recently deceosed: to the families of louis J. Krcffl, 3450 Northvrest 79th St.. Miami, Flo., and of Potrick S. Greene, Ph. BC. 368 Winton Avenue, Louoville. Ky.. and to the 
19 

wife of Roymond J. Angilen, Ph. BC, 2816 South 
Ellis, Chicago, III. 
The Chairman of President Nixon's Committee 
on Employment of the Handicapped today an­
nounced the appointment of J. Harvey Daty to 
the Committee's Executive Committee. 
A former Industrial Relations Director of 
Giant Food Stores in Londover, Md., Daly is 
a management and labor relations consultant 
specializing in the arbitration of labor disputes. 
lorry Mzcre and Harvey Daly plan to attend 
the 40th reunion, and to drive out to South 
Bend together. What ore your plans? Walsh 
Hall will be reserved for the Class of '29 only 
if information comes to us that a sufficient num­
ber of '29ers expect to return to warrant holding 
it for us. Please help us by informing us of 
your present plans. 
1 also received this note from Joe Scales. "I 
was five years at ND. My class is actually 1929 
though I graduated in 1930. As of now I fully 
intend to make my presence there for the Re­
union.*' 
lorry Slauder Engineering Building Notre Dome, Indiana 46556 
'30 BOB ALSO ATE! In on earlier edition of the ALUMNUS I failed to mention that Bob Cooney had accompanied Tim Toomey and me to the Touchdown Club in Washington for dinner last summer. Bob took some pictures there that we may see someday. 
Tim Toomey has recovered from o sick spell of three weeks' duration. He returned to his work in Washington, feeling much better and even proud of some weight loss. 
We have the report that Henry Hinsencamp retired from the Johns Manville Company after forty years of service. While ot ND, he played football under Rockne. 
John W. Gibbons is still director of public relations of the Automotive Safety Foundation with headquarters in Washington, D.C. He has been with this Foundation for 26 yeors. At their conference lost November, John spoke on the stoke of privote carriers in highway safety. 
Members of the 1930 class will be saddened to learn of the death of £d Armstrong recently in Sorosoto, Flo. He and his family will be re­membered in prayers. 
Also the deoth of Tom Murphy who gradu­ated here in Chemical Engineering in 1930 was shocking news received here recently. We ex­tend our sympathy prayerfully to the Murphy family at this time. 
Jock Fogerty of Elwcod, Ind., wrote us re­cently in search of on oddress of another stu­dent in his student days here. Jack hod three sons who graduated from ND in 1959, 1964, and 1966. His older brother. Bob, graduated here in 1928, and has been on the foculty of St. Thomas Col. for many years and is now chairman of its history department. 
The Low School Centenary celebration lost week drew a great number of law alumni to the Compus for the various events. Present at one of the gatherings were Louis Cbapleau of South Bend and Walt Bernard of Celina, Ohio. 
The new Convocation Center with its basket­ball and hockey gomes attracts many local alumni, including Vernon "Buck" Slock end Bob Holmes. 
George Hewson is director of surgery of Presbyterian Hosp. in Newark. Bucky O'Connor is also a busy surgeon on the some staff. George's son who graduated at ND in 1954 is an orthopedic surgeon. George said he visited with Dick O'Toofe, a busy pediatrician, lost fall in Newark. George sent best wishes to Horry Froncis, Hugh Gallagher, and Ed Mu/ick. 
Tom Kerrigan died Dec. 16. A Mass for him was said ct ND by Father Fey, the University chaplain. We would like to send the class con­dolences to his wife, Mrs. Thomas J. Kerrigan, 2245 West 79th Street, Chicago. 
It wos good to hear from £. W. "Slim" Hal­loran again. He has hod two sons who gradu­ated from ND, the one now a physics professor 
at Southern Cat., and the other a personnei 
director in Cedar Rapids. Slim graduated from the U. of Illinois law school and practiced in Champaign until 1942 when he entered the 
F.B.I. Retiring in 1962 from the F.B.I., he has been chief magistrate of the Tempe, Ariz., municipal courts since 1963. Slim says he only sees one class member now and then, and thai 
is Art Erra. 

Dick Donoghue, residing in Son Diego, re* 
ported recently on several alumni in the southern 
area of California: 

"Met Judge John Wallace (Ret.) '27 and Elmer Wynne "28 at the USC-ND Pregome Roily. Both are young and enthusiastic — we recalled Soen'nger '27, and Kassis '31 miking it up on the football practice field and 'Rock' jumping in — great visit after about 40 yearsi 'Judge' Carberry '31 was in charge and Paul Caslner '21 said hello. Mel Terry Hanratly there and he won everyone's tremendous ap­plause. Wynne said 'There aren't many of us left — How true! Jock Connon and Lorry Mullins' deaths remind me how right he is!" 
Devere T. Plunbett O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
•31 A MAN OF FAJTH Sundoy morning I hod o phone coll from Marie McQuoid, Vincennes, Ind., to tell me the sad news that her husband, Jim passed owoy Feb. 8 after o lingering illness of several months. Those of you who attended our reunions will remember Jim as the cheerful smiling man whose great faith in God was the one thing which gave him the strength to carry on. Nor can any of us forget his devoted and untiring wife, Marie, who took such wonderful care of Jim during the period of his paralysis. He will be missed at our next reunion in 1971. Please remember both of them in your prayers. Leo Kletzly remembered to send in the yellow cord this time. He hears from Ray Geiger fre­quently and should be able to send some news on a few other '31 men in that area. Leo now has five grandchildren. I hod on announcement of the remarriage of Poul F. Grant Dec. 28 at Springfield, III. Don Clark is in the Chicago oreo weekly and telephoned a week ago. I hope that I will have a chance to visit with him on one of his regular trips. Ed Ryan has been under the weather for a bit, but hopes to be able to make his annual trip to Phoenix for some warm sun ond relaxation. I hope that members of the Class will make a greater effort to send news as deadlines come oftener this year than they hove for the past several years. I should like to hear your opinions on the new ALUMNUS and the chonges on the Campus. 
James T. Doyle 1567 Ridge Ave., Apt. 308 
Evonslon, III. 60201 
•32 WALTZING IN 

Lo & Behold! I hod just given up on having any news—except sod news ond changes of address, when along ccme a newsy note from William Waltz. Here's what he says: 
"Dear FIo: Probably should hove enclosed a 'snap' for I.D. purposes. Haven't written since 'The Jim Collins' Era. My five kids, mostly grown now; three morried, nine grandchildren. Wife Julio and I keep busy bowling, golfing and baby-sitting (what else?}. Son, Dan, single. Navy of Norfolk, Vo.—Jock, Lt. jg. Navy Supply Officer, Vietnam. Both getting out this year. Youngest boy, Paul, Son Diego City Col, a diver; studies Marine Technology, Oceonog­rophy, and hopes to 'Form the Sea.' About five years and then I retire from Trust Dept. of Peoples-Merchants Bank. Spend IS minutes each A.M. dragging fr3m bed. Work at comb­ing 'hair' to break up calcium deposits. I'm old man in church choir and commentator monthly. See Pete Streb at Catholic Men's Luncheon Club every Wednesdoy." 
Thank you, "Bill" Waltz. 
Sorro«rfully, we note the passing of three 
of our classmates—Paul E. Smith of Canton, O. 
Dec. 10; Albert J. Seymour of Molone, N.Y. 
Nov. 30; and John W. Davis of Horrisburg, 
Pa. Dec. 21. Masses ore being offered for the 
repose of their souls by Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, 
University Chaplain. 
We hove just learned that Herbert J. Wehr­
/en has chickened-out on northern weather and 
moved to Box 971, Donia, Flo. 33004. (Herb, 
where in hell is Dania?} William Donnino left 
Bayside, Long Island to 45 Fairfield Way, Cora-mock, N.Y. 11725. Felix 0 . Dulfey left Jackson­ville, III. and is now at 1521 Gull Road, Kala­mazoo, Mich. 49001. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Rood Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
•33 AFTER DEFEAT? GOLFING. 
Several of the Yellow Cards arrived in time for 
this issue's deadline. Joe Dovey was first and 
described himself as a defeated Democratic 
candidate for state representative for 88th 
district of Michigan (4 counties). After the de­
bacle Joe bought o house in the country, over­
looking on IS-hofe golf course, where he can 
get in more golf. He had lived 28 years in 
the prior house. With three grandchildren, he 
soys he can still pass for 35! The card was 
completed with kind remarks about our last 
reunion. 
Or. Doug Giorgio also mode use of the Yellow Card to give us family news. He says the only child at home is Patrick who is in the 5lh grade. Herb finishes high school in June and then on to Notre Dome. (Doug is making plans to escort Herb to the Campus in September!) Tom is flying helicopters in Viet Nam and Tony is in St. Louis U. With four already married, Doug soys the eight grand­children will keep him busy. In conclusion, he remarks that Pot Corcoran, M.D., is President of the Indiana State Medical Society. 
Ray Broncheou sent o nice letter from West­ern New Mexico U., Silver City, N.M. He says our recent reunion was very enjoyable and ex­tended thanks to our classmates who worked on the committees. Getting back to the Golden Thirties, Ray said that the fact that Norm Greeney pulled out from the guard spot in the wrong direction so frequently was probably the only reason that kept him (Roy) from being an Ail-American. I'm sending Norm two Yel­low Cords for a rebuttal. If you wont to write to Roy, his address is' 2022 Juniper St., Silver Cty, N.M. 88061. 
lorry Sextan proposes that we have o Class reunion at the t^lD-Army gome in NYC Oct. 11, 1969. He appoints Jock Hoyt os the NYC class representative to arrange for a class suite and "we con all contribute for the booze & etc." Larry, it was o pleasure to see Mrs. Sextan, your friends, and you at the '68 Navy gome. 
Jack Cunnea writes to osk who all the "old" men were in the '33 reunion pictures. He gra­ciously odds that he was getting gray while still at ND. Jack's excuse for missing the re­union was that he hod to distribute yearbooks to his students — by the time of our 40th, Jock, you'll be too weak to hold yearbooks. Som Hyde was one of the many who asked for you. 
Chuck Hofron and Steve Banas represented our Class in a "lobliy watch" at the Ambas­sador. Chuck saw Fr. Joyce, Ed Krause, Paul Costner, Ben Oakes, and Bob Cahill. He then attended the rally at the Biltmore where he joined Steve Banas ond his lovely wife. 
Norm Duke wrote to say he appreciated being in the reunion pictures with Judge Mourie Lee, Pete Connelly, John Neubauer, and yours truly. The photographs were in living color and were token through the kindness of Bob 

Congrats 
PhUip E. Prickett '46 a veteran of 14 years in fund raising work, has been named an associate director of development for corporations at Mar­quette University, Mfl­waukee. He will be re­sponsible for maintaining^ a close liaison between local and national' cor­porations and the univer­sity. 
Anthony J. Gentile '47 is to fill a new position with AC Electronics Div­ision of General Motors, Milwaukee. He will be special assistant for Ball Bearing Research. 
Rudolph J. Anderson '47 has been appointed as­sistant director of pat­ents of Merck & Co., Inc. Gladstone, NJ. Until his present position he has been tlie company's inter­national patent counsel. 
Frank J». Thotnetz Jr. '48 manager of the Mil­waukee o£Bee of Dean Witter A Co., has been elected a vice president of the firm. The company serves investors from WaU Street to WaikikL 
John H. Begert '49 is the new vice president of marketing and director of Fairfields Surgical & Medical-Electronics, Inc. He will be responsible for the marketing of the com­pany's electromonitoring systems. Fairfield's head­quarters are in Stamford, Conn. 
Dr. Donald A. Dooley '49 vice president of the Sys­tems Engineering Opera­tions of Aerospace, Los Angele^ has received a Certificate of Apprecia­tion for his service to the 
U.S. Air Force. He has served on the Scientific Advisory Board for the past year. 

Cooney, '30. Norm has been elected president of the ND Club of Central Florida. He is now a member of the NO Senate and wilt go to the Campus in May, where he will represent the interests of the Class of '33. Mrs. Duke has been seriously ill. Please remember her in your 
prayers. 
Karl Vogelheim sent a beautiful Christmas letter in which he mentioned he was busy with the lumber business, the mayor's job and on endless list of other activities. He complained how old the other fellows looked at our 3Sth 
— just like Cunnea! He said thot Mrs. Vogel­heim and he were rattling around the house without any of the kids for the first time in thirty years. 
If all goes well, I plan to attend the ND­NYU gome !n the Garden, NYC Feb. 20. I hope to meet some of our classmates who con hand me the Yellow Cards and save postage. 
Charles A. Con/ey 700 E. rurnbull Ave. Haverlown, Pa. 19083  
'3 4  COM E  EAST. YOUN G MA N Edward F. ManiKeld 523 W. Hillsdale San Mateo, Col. 94403  
'3 5  NEVER  GIVE  UP  

I was just obout ready to give up on news for this issue when I received a few cords this week. Tom Stringer wrote from Dearborn, Mich. Tom has been with the Ford Motor Co. for about 25 years. His oldest daughter Koye is married and mode Tom a grandfather several years ago. His daughter Ann is a freshman ot St. Mary's, and Tom Jr graduated from college in 1947 and is now in Vietnam. Tom is a frequent visitor to South Bend during the football season and usually attends all home gomes. 
Cor/ Weber is with the chemical division of General Mills, and moved from Kankakee, 111. to a new address ot 5312 Clover Ridge, Edina, Minn. — a suburb of Minneapolis. He invites a visit from any '35ers who may be in that oreo. Jim Bowdren h located in West Newbury, Moss, and has been appointed Administrator of Field Operations by the state auditor. 
Joe Olt of Chicago sent us a clipping from the South Bend paper which we had not seen, showing Gerry Rank's son John receiving a Legion of Valor award at ND. This award is given annually to outstanding cadets, and only about five to ten cadets qualify for the honor throughout the country. Our congratulations to Gerry's son as well as, of course, the parents who raised him. 
Tom Wi7//amsen, who has helped this column with news on several occasions, was o speaker ot o meeting held by Grumann Air Croft for educators and professional development mana­gers recently. Dr. John Nicolaides, professor of Aero-Spoce Engineering at ND, was the fea­tured speaker. The resume I received of Tom's background since he graduated indicates that he certainly gets around. He is a member of several diversified notional organizations in the field of science and engineering. 
In the post week we received word from the ALUMNI office, as well as a note from Jock Edwards, of the sudden and untimely death of Bill Tourney Jan. 20. According to a news­paper clipping he died of brain injuries re­ceived when he apparently collapsed and hit his head against a revolving door in a building in NYC. Bill was a vice-president of Cory Byoir and Associates, o pubKc relations company. He was 0 frequent contributor to magazines in­cluding the New Yorker, Collier's, and Cos­mopolitan after leaving the service in 1946 with the rank of major. Bill is survived by his widow and three children, whose address is 1 i Northfield Rosd, Glen Cove. L I., NY. 
The lost two reports of deaths of our class­mates — Wall Molus ir the fall and now Bill Tourney — come as a real shocker to us. We sow Walt in Novembei and have had corre­spondence this post year from Bill. Masses hove been said for both of them by the Class, ond we solicit your continuing prayers for not only these two but all our other classmates who hove passed away, as well as their fomilies. During my tenure as "interim" Class Secretary these post two years i. hos been my sod duty to report the death of at least one clossmote in each issue. Our ronki are thinning fast. 
A *35er not heard from for a long time. Bill Moss, sent vs a brief note about himself. After graduation Bill spent four years in the Navy, and the lost 20 years in Cleveland with Eaton Yale & Towne, where he is now Director of Traffic. His son Bill graduated in 'S7 from NO. Bill is on Jim MocOeviH's syndicated Christmas cord list and in that manner keeps up to dote with other classmates. A note to Jim MocOevitt —how obout sending me some Class news which may hove resulted from your Christmas cord list? 
Bill Broderick, It. Gcvemor of Pennsylvania, addressed the reunion dinner celebrating the centenary of the ND Low School. 
Wiiriam F. Kyan 1630 B. Washington South Bend. Ind. 46617 

'36 LARRY IS LONELY lorry Polkovic 301 Mechanic St. Orange, NJ . 07050 
•37 SPRING FEVER? 
Joseph P. Quinn 
P.O. Box 275 
Lake ienape Andover, N.J. 07827 
•38 THE CHERRY ON TOP A nice side benefit though it hardly makes up for the pay veto of serving in the Legislature is meeting of classmates. Eddie Kilrain and charming wife surprised me at a Mental Health dinner in Indianapolis one night. Eddie is with Bell Telephone, makes a lot of ND games in South Bend but never a Reunion. Tom FitZ' gera/d, who lives in Indianapolis also sent me on invitation for lunch which I'll certainly ac­cept soon. On a foggy day in January I drove — be­cause flights were all cancelled — to Des Moines to speak on state aid to nonpublic school students before over 800 people at a state-wide roily for CEF — Citizens for Educa­tional Freedom — and Iowa legislators. After­wards visited Nick Lamberto and family at his home and drove back 500 miles on ice — the hardest kind of hard water at times. Nick is well-known reporter for the Des Moines Register and Tribune besides doing special feature writing as does his wife f^e showed me a story he ran on Dr. John C. lungrerif Long Beach, Calif., for years a physician to President Richard Nixon. John gave Nixon on examino­tion a few days before the inauguration and pronounced him "in full good health to os­sume the challenges** of the Presidency. Dr. John*s son, John Jr., graduated from ND last spring and roomed with Dr. Dennis "Denny" BmmanueVs son. John has another son, Danny 
who is a Senior at ND this year, and a daugh­ter Christine who is o Junior ot St. Mary's. 
Roymond Fiedler after years in Minnesoto re­cently moved to Decatur, III. (204 Angle Court). Wish he'd write. Pother Vincent Delavy left Moreau Seminary for the Holy Cross mission in Washington, D.C, the first of the year. 
I need more news — send in cards. 
Burnie Bauer 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 
'39 TAKE ME ALONG REUNION PKRECISTRANTS 
F. X. (TimJ Bradley 
Paul Donovan 
Joseph {Pat] Gorman Joe Hannan Dave Meskill James Molsrhall 
Richord O'Alelio 
Donald O'Melia 
Frank Pittmon 
Charles Reddy 
John tSpike) Siegel 
Walter Short 
John (Black Jackj Sullivan 
from *39 to *69 . . . a pictorial review to be presented June 6-7-8 . . . Will you be there for the great debate? .. . or, to be honest about it, to exaggerate about "How great it was." The basic strategy for our 30th came oif the drawing board January 10, '69, when Jim 
Molschall, Dave Meskill and Joe Honnon met 
with Tom Sullivan '66. Alumni Office Reunion Coordinator. . . . We con promise YOU a most pleasant, exciting and informotive weekend, so mark your calendar and be with us! Dfck O'Melia is this month's recipient of the ••THANK YOU AWARD" for using the yellow card. He writes that brother Don and lovely wife, Margaret, in D.C. for Nixon inaug­ural. Don was Grand Marshal of Lowyers for Nixon in Wisconsin. The '•Gold Dust Twins" will reunion, likewise Pal Gorman and Wolf Short, via Dick. (Fly Alleghany, requests Walt.) These initial commitments most grotifying, so let's ALL talk it up! Contact those in your area (more about this later] and those closest to you dur­ing your campus days . . . PLAN NOW . . . you'll be glad you did! 
Joseph E. Honnon Local Arrangements Chairman 
1804 Greenwood Or. South Bend, Ind. 46628 
'40 FORTY VOLUMES 

Thank you. Men of '4011! Although I probably 
should hold back some of the volume of news 
received for the next issue in anticipation of the 
usuol subsequent shortage, I will try to get all 
of it in this issue. 

Please read Jim Delahanty'i yellow cdid 
seriously and start making plons for 1970 right 
now. "Dick fiurke and I just want to remind 
you that next year is our class Reunion. Burke 
and I recently hod lunch together; he is work­
ing every day and doing fine. I am retired 
(have been since 1967). According to my mother 
I om the only teenybopper in the senior citi­
zens. Give a blast in your next column about 
our Reunion and let's get the show on the rood 
for 1970. Don Hosinsk! will be there for sure." 
Jim is so very correct, everyone of us should be 
making plans now. 

Whenever I receive on envelope from The 
Alumni Association I open it with trepidation 
because many times it contains sod news about 
our good friends. Since the last issue 1 hove 
received three such notices. Edmund G. Dalton 
died during the summer. Tom Ford and Don 
Smith both lost their wives in January. Let us 
oil sincerely pray for our dear friends and their 
families every day of our lives. On beholf of 
all Men of *40 I extend our condolences and 
sympathy to the families. 

Joseph L. "Joe" Guccione wrote to report a change of address. He is now at 208 E. 3rd St., Sterling, III. 61081 in a new building he pur­chased to house his real estate and insurance business. It appears as if Joe is moking sure of future clients; he has become a '•granddad** for the third time, a granddaughter, Kristina. Received sincerely appreciated words of con­dolence from Tony Potenziana, Marc Gruen­lelder. Rev. John Poyne CSC, George Costelfo, 
Bud Linnehan and Gerry Saegert. More now 
resides ot 11717 Cloychester Dr., St. Louis, Mo. 63131. IT. John is pastor of the Church of St. Ignotius Martyr, 2309 Euclid Ave., Austin, Tex. 78704. He has been there for quite a while pri­marily because of his position as chaplain for the Catholic children in the Texas State Deaf School. 
George lives in Crystal Lake, III. and writes; "1 have my own real estate olfice and am happy to report that things go pretty well. We hove seven children and our son, Mike, is currently 0 junior in good old Lyons Hall. Did see Dan Hushek at one of the football games lost foil." 
John "Bud" Linnehan wrote that Bill Radigan 
visited in Milwaukee last summer. Also that he sow Jim Alyward at the Pittsburgh gome. It was Jim's first trip back, bul he promised to moke the Reunion. Bud's oldest daughter, Sharon, graduated from St. Mary's and is studying art ot Michigan State; daughter, Cothy, is now o junior at St. Mary's while Chris is in high school. 
Pat McFarland writes from Lockport, III. and expressed the thought that it is difficult to come up with real news for our column. However, he did write to say, " I am working for Texaco Inc. at the Lockport Refinery as on •estimator.* Have contact with Fronk Milne, from Naper­ville. Unfortunately have not had any contact with the 1940 crew.'* 
Bill Coleman forwarded some very interest­ing information about Dick Lyng, one of our for west men. Lost September Dick was named CaIifomia*s new Director of Agriculture. This is the number-one industry in the state. Be­fore joining the Agriculture Department, Dick headeid the Edward J. Lyng Co., farm seed processors and manufacturers. He has olso held important positions in related associations and councils. Bill mentioned that he recently be­
came a director of Pioneer Fund in Boston, 
which is headed by our own Paul Helbnuth. 
Jim Donoghue informs me that he visited 
with Mike Corgon, asst. football coach at U. 
of Nebraska when Mike was in Chicago re­
cently. Oick Antes also wrote to ask obout Mike 
and Dick Burke. Not sure how it happened, but 
both of them have been mentioned. 
Thanks again, men, just keep those cords 
and letters coming, so we con build up to o 
great Reunion. 
Robert G. Sanlord 
233 W. Cenlrol Ave. 
Lombard, III. 60143 
'41 SNOWBOUND IN N.Y. 
James F. Spellman 
Spellman 2 Madden 
342 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
'AZ DR. PETE TO PENN 
We are very proud of our classmate. Dr. Peter 
V. Moulder, who has been appointed Director of Surgery at the Pennsylvania Hosp. in Phila­delphia. This necessitated his moving from Chi­cago to Haverford, Pa., where, in conjunction with his appointment, Peter will also become professor of surgery ot the U. of Pennsyl­vania. Congratulations, Pete, and our very best to you in your new appointmenti 
Rabbi Albert Plolkin of Phoenix, Ariz., recent­ly visited the Holy Land. The Robbi says, " I found a new kind of religion there, not so much of tradition, but a new faith born out of the new Israel, a new Hebraic culture and tra­dition." 
Very good news also comes to us that William 
C. Keys, vice-pres. of Murray Ohio Manufac­turing Co., was elected a director of Toy Man­ufacturers of America. Inc., ot the trade association*s annuo! meeting in NYC recently. 
As well OS hearing good news of our former classmates, it is always wonderful getting news of their parents also — these great, under­standing people who pulled us through so many things. Such news is the joyous occasion of the 50th Wedding Anniversary celebrated Feb. 12, 1969, of Mike and Ella Hines, parents of Mike Hines. Mr. and Mrs. Hines, Sr., are now re­siding in Kewonno, Ind., and maintain on active interest in all of the activities around them. Our sincerest good wishes to Mike and Ella for many more hoppy, healthy years to­gether! 
Our deepest sympathy is extended to Frank 
D. Giffis on the passing of his father, Frank D. Gillis, Sr. We will oil remember Mr. Gillis in our prayers. Condolences also to Tom Carroll on the death of his wife, Trudy, Feb. II . 
And, taking o big risk, the Secretary's secre­tary would like to odd this note: William M. Hickey has been appointed President of Laphom-Hickey Steel. To the best of the best, my very bestlll 
William M. Hickey 
5500 W. 73rd St. 
Chicago, III. 60638 
'43 GOLDEN SILENCE 
Frank Kaiser 
307 Cherry Chatswarth, III. 60921 
'44 SUPER SILVER 
*'Rise and Shine in '69" from California to Maine, from Florida to Washington, from Caracas to Honolulu to Quebec to Notre Dame! All navigable waterways, all speedy express­ways, all expansive airways, all of just about everything by sea, land and air lead to Notre Dome for the super-colossal, super-sumptuous, super-tremendous 25th Reunion — the SILVER JUBILEE — on June 6-7-8. If you have not mode plans to attend, do so now! Get in the act! Don't miss it because never again will you be so privileged. 

The Reunion committee under the leadership 
of Tom Rolfs and "Black John" Murphy has 
been hord at work. The preview of plans is 
unbelievable. Joe Oi'f/on together with Bob 
Lehman and Bill Lawless handling the local 
arrangements has worked diligent!/ with the 
chairmen to make this 25th Reunion the greatest 
ever held on the ND Campus. It's up to every 
'44er to make it the successful event it is 
planned to be. 
Another item to mention might be called the 
Dunigan Dilemma. The report of Eddie 
Dunigan moving to South Bend, to top it, chang­
ing his name to E. Bryan Dunigan was mode in 
this column in the past issue. The information 
wos received from the Alumni office but un­
fortunately it was in error. Eddie wrote that 
his father was E. B. Dunigan, Sr., he is E. B. 
Dunigan, Jr. and hts son, a student at N.D. 
Law School, is E. B. Dunigan III. Eddie still 
lives at 201 Wesley, Oak Park, III. and works 
for Sun Chemicol Corp.-General Printing Ink 
Division. In addition to his namesake, he has 
five other sons—Michael, Terry, Kevin, Timothy 
and Sean. He frequently sees Wally Rogers 
and fii7/ Kenny and hopes especially that Angela 
Berlelli will be on hand for the big 25th in 
June. E. Bryan Dunigan, class of '68, wrote 
that his father put on quite a show at his grad­
uation last June, entertaining his classmates 
with a trumpet concert on the main quad in front 
of Badin. He highly recommends retaining him 
for June 6-7-8. His fees run high but. this being 
a special cose, they probobty would be waived. 
James F, Cormeley has returned to this 
country after three years in the Brussels, Bel­
gium, headquarters of International Tel. and 
Tel. He is now director of U.S. operations for 
ITT Cannon Electric in Los Angeles. 
Dr. Kenneth Forbes, chairman of SUMMA in 
the greater Green Bay area, did a masterful 
job handling arrangements for the kickoff here 
in February. He had an excellent committee 
with whom to work but his inspired leadership 
assured the event to be the success that it was. 
Two letters were received from men who were original '44ers but for some reoson or another had been omitted from the current class roster. The first one come from Tom Clemens who lives in Vienna, Va. He found himself classified as MRU (mail returned unclaimed), a stotus not too far removed from being listed as deceased. He assures one that he is hale and hearty and expects to be on hand in June. The '44er who tipped him off to the forthcoming Reunion was Ed Drinkard from nearby Alexandria, Vo. 
The other letter was from Dr. Joseph Daly, Shillington, Po. Joe, a dentist, the father of seven children, included o photograph of his handsome family. He considers the 25th an­niversary a very special occasion and looks forward to seeing many of his fellow '44ers. 
There were several communiques from George 6arisci7fa. He seeks o "volunteer" to complete results of a questionnaire which is to be sent to the Class of '44 before the Reunion. This brochure type report would moke interesting reading and would be a particularly good souvenir "twenty-five years after." Someone has the talent and the time. VolunteerUl 
George attended the Low School Centennial celebration in February and hoped to hove a meeting with Tom and yours truly since he was in the gererol vicinity of both. However, Aspen was the destination of the latter two so the Reunion details go on via the moils. 
In the meantime, moke your plans definite for the Silver Jubilee Reunion — June 6-7-8. It will be a memorable occasion. You cannot afford to be a reunion dropoutl 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wisconsin 54305 
'45 BELLS. BELLS 
"The Judge" in Ithoco, Jim Cfynes, had one of his trials moke the AP wire and New York 
Don Kersten uses it welL 
A Lot Of Hat Air 
AiVEB flown 15,000 feet above the ground in a wicker basket? Unless you're one of the 40 or 50 hot-air balloonists in the countiy, chances are you haven't. Don Kersten '48 happens to be one of that rare breed of bird-men that has and does so regularly. 
The wild blue yonder has always been an exciting part of Don's life. A successful la^vyer from Fort Dodge, Iowa, he began by flying single and multi-engine planes. Next came gliders and skydiving. And then the endall — hot-air ballooning. 
Don's $4,500 rig consists of a wicker gondola with space for four propane cylinders, some high hopes and one hot-air balloonist — himself. Tower­ing 60 feet above the basket is a nylon balloon that holds 57,000 cubic feet of hot air when fully inflated. 
Twenty minutes is all it takes to prepare the balloon for lift-off. After completing a short preflight check list, a twist of the burner starts the inflation process. When the balloon has inflated and the temperature dif­ferential between the air inside the balloon and the atmosphere is 80 de­grees Don heads skyward. 
It's not always that easy however. Don recalls his take-off at the India­napolis 500 Balloon Race in May of 1966. "On takeoff, while I was still hanging onto the basket, a gust of wind partially deflated the balloon. It took off and dragged me over an 
automobile, knocked me to the ground 
and njiended a ladies' outhouse oc­
cupied by two rather startled women. 
Once airborne Don's fate and direc­tion rest in the hands of nature. Alti­tude is the only thing he has any control over. To climb higher, he merely turns the heat up and to de­scend he allows the air inside the balloon to cool. One notable hazard in the process is the fact that there is a 60-second delay in the reaction of the balloon to such adjustments, which makes maneuvering near the ground somewhat less than certain. 
Landing is one of the more haz­ardous aspects of ballooning. Don has touched down in some unusual places, including open strip-mine pits, shop­ping centers and frozen Minnesota lakes. Until it's on the ground and actually collapsed, the balloon is at the mercy of the wind and can easily be slammed into nearby objects. As Don puts it, "Since every landing is reaUy a controlled 'crash,' I've had some rather harried experiences." 
Kersten's balloon hears two things that are close to his heart — his wife's name^ Merope, and the bine and gold colors of his alma mater. Last fall he had hoped to take oS from the ND Stadium daring half time of the ND-Purdne game. However, at the last minute he was unable to get final ap­proval. "Maybe next year!" exdaims Fort Dodge's version <rf the Red Baron. 
Congrats 
Val Reisig '50 will serve as manager, chemicals and plastics advertising, Eastman Chemical Products, New York City. Val's appointment marks a merging of the functions of chemi­cals and plastics advertising in the company's organization. 
John F. Connor '50 has been elected executive vice president of Chicago's 
A. G. Becker & Co., a nationwide in­vestment banking and bi-okei-age firm. He joined the company in 1960 and was elected a member of the executive committee in 1967. 
Robert L. Joliet '51 who began his cai'cer as a messenger boy at People's Bank in Canton, Ohio, returned to that bank seven years ago and has i-ecently been elected its president. Bob received his BS in accounting in '51 and his LLB in '53. 
H. J. Bamett '51 was named cor­porate attorney for AquaChem, Inc., manufacturer of seawater desalting and pollution control systems. Bar­nett, a specialist in patent law, will work from the Waukesha, Wis. plant. 
George J. Chopp '51 has been ap­pointed dii-ector of industrial relations of Stromberg-Carlson Corporation, a subsidiaiyof Genei-al Dynamics, Roch­ester, N.Y. In this position he will be responsible for all industrial relations functions. 
Raymond J. Gans '51 was recently named vice president and general manager of the newly formed Inter­national Telephone and Telegraph unit in Fort Wayne. Gans, a foi-mer mem­ber of the Notre Dame physics de­pai"tment will manage the aerospace/­optical division operations. 
Times. Apparently the Tompkins County Savings Bank carillon chimes the hour and, also, a melod/ and a Cornell Prof, is bringing suit because it interrupts and distracts him. 
We are waiting for the BIG DECISION. 
John Clary has been appointed Director of Contracts for Communications and Systems, Inc., Falls Church, Va. He is also staff counsel and assist. Corp. sec. 
Dave Condon served as toastmaster for the Frank Leahy Testimonial; also had a nice stoiy "In the Wake of the News." 
John Powers, Joe Brady, Frank Paulson were heading for Big Low School Centennial. 
Jim Kelter, who recently moved from Char­lotte, N. C. to N. Y. C. with Union Carbide as Mgr. of the Customer Service Dept., had lunch with Horry Wollhers, our 25th Reunion Chairman. Time is gettmg closer—^June '70—I'm wondering if Harry will get we "old timers" to take over a building or picket the Student Center as part of his program. 
F. M. Linehan 
P.O. Box 5000 Binghomlon, N.Y. J3902 
'46 BETTER SCORE NEXT TIME 
Peter P. Rlchisk! 
6 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conneclfcuf 
'47 SILENT ST. JOSEPH 
J. Dean Owen 
2709 Morion St. Joseph, Mich. 49085 
'48 OOPS IN '69 George J. Keenon 
777 Rolling Hills Rood Clillon, New Jersey 07013 
'49 '49ERS IN '69 
Why is this column so brief? I know you ore just holding back until we all meet at the Reunion. Never fear, men, we'll never be that hard up for news that we have to hold it in reserve. Not this Class! 
Guy Momsen has opened a new business in El Poso. Stop and see his M&F Magnavox Cen­ter. Another new venture — Rev. Thomas W. Zimmerman CSC has recently been named re­ligious superior of the Holy Cross priests in the Archdiocese of Dacca, East Pakistan. And an­other, Frank B. Nuel/e, who joined Stauffer Chemical of NY in *64, is now the licensing ad­ministrator for the company. These news briefs should get you thinking about those great days coming up, June 6-7-8. Make plans early to meet the whole Class at THE Reunion. 
Leo L. Wesley 755 Driftwood Lane Rochester, New York 14617 
'SO  SUNNING?  
Jolin W.  Thornton  
4400 Monserrale  St.  
Coral  Gables,  Fla. 33146  
'51  SYMPATHY  TO  MANY  

The class extends its sympathy to the widow and three children of Bob Choinski who died Jon. 1. The family address is 2075 Long Lake Rd., Wind lake. Wise. We also heord that John Beck died, some time lost year, but do not hove on address for his family, to whom we also extend our belated condolences. 
In addition Bob Clemency's mother died the day after Christmas after an extended illness. Gene DeBorloli's mother died very suddenly Feb. 3, and our sympathy goes to both these friends. 
As further evidence we are aging Bob Nickadem was just made SENIOR Vice-President in charge of the Trust Dept. at the Security First National Bank in Sheyboygan. Bob hod a nice write-up in the Sheyboygan paper, detail­ing his NO background and extensive com­munity services in the area. 
Al Bailey confirmed that his marriage oc­

curred Dec 28; and Moty Louise Pfiester is now 
Mrs. Bailey. Jim Boyle of our Oats was an 
usher and Jerry Coslel/o ('52| was his best man. 
Al sees Jack McKelvey and his wife Peggy 
often. Jock was scheduled to usher at the wed­
ding but impending birth of James (their 5th, 
arrived Jan. 10) kept him at home. Jack is 
with Prudential in Newark. Look for Al and 
Mary Lou at the So. Col. game this fall. 
Jack Harford is in Pittsburgh—District Group 
Manager for New England Mutual Life Insur­
ance Co. Jack is married and they have five 
boys and two girls; nothing like raising your 
own cheerleaders for the basketball team. The/ 
live at 105 Douglos Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15215. 
Carl Eiferl and family hove a new address, 
1010 Washington Ave., Oshkosh, Wise. 54901. 
Corl is now City Editor of the Oshkosh Paper. 
John Corcoran dropped o note from 3220 W . 
Sierra Vista Drive, Phoenix, Arir. 85017 to an­
nounce arrival of William Feb. 24. They now 
have three boys and three girls. 
John Corp stopped in during o visit to Chicago 
for the Ashre Show, sharing a beer with 6i// 
Prindiville and me. John and his wife Betty Ann 
hove two girls, Moryellen (13), and Rosemary 
(11). John is Assistont District Manager for the 
Patterson-Kelley Co. in NYC and most of his 
territory is in that area. 
Hugh ffenry sent a note announcing he is 
now on attorney, practicing at 329 Unity Build­
ing in Bloomington, III. It seems our Closs hos 
more lawyers than people. 
Jock Lemoire and his wife Fran [Madden] live 
with their fomily at 30 Harvest Lane, West 
Islip, NY 11795. Jock is teaching moth and 
coaching football at Union Col. in Schenectady, 
Their four boys, ranging from 14 to 7 years, ore 
John, Steven, Richard and Billy. 
Fred Kaufman is a mgr. for TRW at Redondo 
Beach. What he monoges is so secret he usually 
can't tell his wife what he had for lunch. Fred 
has worked on the Orbital Docking Rendezous 
problems, and has been engoged in the Atlas 
and Titan II programs. The Kaufmans include 
Ricky (13), Sharon (12), Jon (10) and Carole 
(i), and they live at 5330 Waupaca Rd., Polos 
Verdes Peninsula, Col. 90275. 
Mike BrartsKeld is employed as o Moryknoll priest in Christ the King Parish, Kong Hoa, Korea. Joe Kigali passed on o letter giving his address: Rev. Michael J. Bronslield, M.M., Catholic Chaplain Office, 226 US ASA Operation Co., APO 9«27«, San Francisco, Col. 
We may hove another blockrobe soon. Fred Brice is scheduled to be ordained May 24 in Miami. I hope he remembers us and oil our families the next day in his first Moss. 
Thanks for the cards and notes this last time. One of these doys I will go through our Christmas cords (from '67) to pick up bock news. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Worner Corp. 200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, III. 60604 
'52 MERRY-GO-ROUND The issues of ALUMNUS ore coming around quite a bit more often now, so how obout using the yellow cord inserted in the magazine or go whole hog and buy a 5<ent postcard ond drop us o few lines. Robert A. Kirchgessner is heading up the SUMAAA Drive in Grand Ropids. He is kicking off with a dinner in February. Bob has been hard at work all winter fighting snowballs and preparing for these gala affairs. Now to keep food in the house. Bob is involved in his own private insurance and investment company, suc­cessfully too. Louis K. Hogon (Grod school of '52) will soon be finishing four and o half years of lay mis­sionary work OS mgr. of a credit union in Puno, Peru. When he arrived on the scene, it was facing bankruptcy. It has now been revived and is in current condition. Hogan's address: c/o 
Moryknoll Fathers, Coslllo 112, Puno, Peru. 
A great letter come in the moil from Dorothy 
Broderick. She is extremely proud of her great 
guy, Phil. She writes, "When we pulled out 
of Vetvllle, we had three children — we now 
have 13. One son at U. of III., another son 
at Loyola of Chicago, three in high school, six 
in grammar school, two at home. Phil opened 
his second furniture store in April of '68 in 
Evergreen Park, III. (Isl store opened in Au­
gust 1954 located at 2424 W . 63rd St., Chi­
cago). He is President of 'Elegant Interiors, 
Inc.' (an odvertlsing group)." Dorothy, there 
are damned few of us good ones left. 
Guess who's out on o speech-making tour? 
Oar Vice-Pres., Jomes 8. Powers, as a represen­
tative of Parade magazine and ND. He recent­
ly spoke before the business club of Good 
Counsel Col. If it was Jim, the subject must 
hove been roses — Four. He has recently 
moved from 1 Cottontail Rd., to 2 Cottontail 
Rd. He never could stond the other side of the 
trocb. 
A word from Francis Vilelli. Jon. 2, o screech­
ing new odditlon — doughter Julie Ann was 
born in North Plainfield, NJ . Everyone doing 
fine. 
Robert J. Kapish writes from Gncinnoti, Ohio, 
that he joined the William T. Earls Agency there 
lost July OS a soles rep. It's the largest Ins. 
Agency in Cin. doing over 40 million a year. 
Bob specializes in estate planning. His wife 
Joan recently presented him with their 6th 
child — oil boys. Bob ond Jim Davies '52 often 
get together to cheer on the Irish and Cincy 
Reds and Bengals. 
Jerry Costello writes from Pomplon Plains, 
N.J., that life is anything but dull for the edi­
tor of a diocesan news weekly in these days of 
the changing Church. His poper. The Beacon 
[Poterson, N.J. diocese], is going strong after 
two years. He has enjoyed extended trips to 
his diocesan missions in Peru ond Bolivia the 
lost two summers. A short time ago he was best 
man for Al Bailey ('51) at his wedding to Mary 
Pfiester, an Army nurse. Occasionally he runs 
into Bob Butler, Interchem's chief financial of­
ficer, and Chos Schubert, who keeps the wool 
in THE WOOL BUREAU. Jerry and his wife Jane 
(Syracuse '53] ore expecting their 6th in May. 
William B. King 613 E. Donmoyer Ave, South Bend, fnd. 4S6U 

'53 YOUR BUDDY MISSES YOU 
W. F. "Bud" Stuhfdrefcer 
IT006 Jean Rd. S.E. Hunlsvitte, Ala. 35803 

'54 $ $ S Time is getting short. Reunion weekend is fast approaching. If each of you would spend a buck and coll just one distant friend or roommate and moke o dote, we'd hove o record turnout and a record good time. Coll nowl Bill Sullivan, 12633 Coso Vislo Rd., Lakeside, Calif. 92040 just called and is olreody moking his Reunion weekend plans. How obout you? 
Our Class is pretty well represented in Viet­nam. Charlie Spicka had 15 missions logged in his first month. Charlie hopes to take some leave and catch o hop bock for the Reunion. Frank Walter is in command of the 8th &igi­neers of the 1st Air Covolry Div. and his letter was just like a John Wayne movie, only for reol. Frank's wife Reglno is living in Falls Church, Vo., taking core of their five little ones. Frank hopes to be stateside in o few months. Frank ran Into Moj. John Ciambruno over there. John Is operotlons officer, 34th engineer group In VIetnom. Frank Wisneski will be in Nha Trang and unfortunately will miss our 15th. See you In '74, Fronk. Major Mike Hacketf is o member of o unit thot earned the U.S. Air Force Flying Sofety Plaque. Mike Is headquartered in Da Nong. USAF Moj. Bill Jockomis has been graduated from the Armed Forces Staff Col. at Norfolk, Va. 
Walt Wagner of Louisville fanw, has been 
elected to the Institute of Ceol EiM e iMonage­
ment with the designotion ef certified properly 
manager. Although I couldn't noke the scene 
I was pleased to be invited to Wichita for the 
inauguration of Gov. Docking of Kansas and the 
Honorable James OeCoursey « U. Gov. dl 
Kansas. A subsequent letter fiom Jim indicates 
he'll be with us at leunion time. OhI you guys 
can call him "landslide." 
luanne and Dick Chr got out to LA. to see 
the Irish slop O-l. and spend a nice weekend 
with Celio and Chris Cohan. Chris b with 
Gen. Dynamics in Son Diego. After the gome 
Dick ran into Karen and Jofm O'fforo and Woll 
Duschka. John is an orthopedic surgeon in the 
LA. area. Walt does gel around. The USC 
gome was his ninth of the season. He man­
aged to squeeze it in on the way to Hawaii 
for business. What a life, huh? Dick Ehr is still 
flying for American Airlines (727's). Tonie and 
Chris Mo/one also attended the USC game and 
especially enjoyed taking Iheir six children to 
the Communion breakfast with the team. Ed 
Hogon advised that he too will moke the Re­
union along with many of the N.Y. regulars, 
like Manny Scguciro, Dwyer, Gallagher, Treocy, 
etc. 
Hod a quickie from Corf Eck. Carl's going to 
be with us in June also. Carl is on attorney in 
Pittsburgh, Pa., with Meyer, Oarrogh, Buckler, 
Bebenek and Eck. And good old Dove Nofon 
saved up 14 years of news and laid it on me. 
Dave held out till 1962 then married Isabel 
and they now hove a son. Dove is with GAC 
Corp. in Allentown, Pa. He too will attend our 
Reunion and reports or. the following: Kalhy 
and Jock Mogill have four boys and live in 
Amherst, N.H., where Jock is with Square D. 
Inc. Dove sow Solly and Jim Harrington at the 
Navy game. Bemice and Jim Browne (with on 
E) also live in Allentown. Jim is a senior V.P. with GAC. Corp. Dove gets to see Pbt Corrico in Denver occasionally. Bill Stanlty operates his own brokerage house in Son Francisco. Bill and his bride, Morylee, have five children. 80b Rich is with Westinghouse in Lima, Ohio, and if his bride gives him permission (tsk, lsk| he'll also be at our Reunion. Finally, Dove ran into George O'Connef/ in Wilkes-Borre who ran into Horvey Neuquist. George is married and has three little ones which I still find hard to be­lieve. 
Rock Morrisscy went back to NO for the Frank Leahy testimonial ond ran into Tom Mc­ffugh. Bub Joseph, Lee GctsAow, Don Penza, John Lotlner, Neil Wordcn, Fred Monn (— Giotordi) Jim Schroder and Minnie Movroides. It would be great to see some of these guys in June. 
And finally have you heard about Bill Voor's sequel to "The Night They Raided Minskys"? It's called "The Day They Raided Nieuwlond Hall" or "Where Did She Hide the Stag Movie?" Good job, Billi Godl What is our be­loved ND coming to? 
Milton J. Beoudine 2r Signal Hill Bhd. East St. louis, Illinois 62203 

'55 BIG DADDY Just received a letter from Dr. John Ryan, who reports that his bride, Renee, delivered Michelle (sixth girl) and Matthew (fourth boy) on Jon. 77, "and on the basis of this historical fact I wish to claim the title or at least a share of the title of 'Biggest Daddy of the Class of 1955." •• Received several episHes from Sors Ford, urging the organization of on "eating ond watering" committee for the evening of the ND-NYU gome at the Garden. We didn't hove enough time this year, but we have token the liberty to appoint John Moftoncy of the Manu­facturers Hanover Trust Co. as the chairman for next year. For publicity, Sors suggests on od that George (ooncy will finance. Origlnol­
ly Sors had noininated Butch Valhce for chair­man, but he has been transferred to Buenos Aires by Chemical New York Trust Company. Now living in Bridgeport (Conn.), Sars served OS public defender for five years in Fairfield County, but now is o partner in a low firm. He is married and has five children. In recent months Sars has seen: Jerry Murphy (real estate man in Fairfield County); John Mohoney (at Navy gome); Bob Hoidinger (also in Philly); Hugh Boyle (formerly director of Norwolk, Conn., school system who has now moved to Boston to get his PhD); and Ron Rene (now with Evershorp in Connecticut). Oops, almost forgot, we'll meet before and after next year's New York basketball game at Toots Shor. 
Rev. Jim Sherer has been teaching political science and economics at Notre Dame Col. 
(P.O. Box 5, Dacca 2) in East Pakistan. Some classmotes hove asked how they con send finan­cial support to Father Jim. Never send cosh, checks are best. These could also be mode out to Holy Cross Missions, 4301 Horewood Rood, NE, Washington, D.C. 20017, with a note to credit it to him. 
John Bendel sent a long letter, detailing how he and Eileen left "smogsville" for Denver where he is odministrntive supervisor for the Denver and Salt Lake City offices. Virg and Bill Slahl (4807 Arrowwood Dr., Tompo) are still leading the life of the military. He is attend­ing comptroller's school in Montgomery and plans a one-year "unaccompanied" tour to Southeast Asia. Don Honisch (8557 E. Slst PI., Tulso) reports that he was named "Stockbroker of the Yeor" there, but that the kids ond work arc turning him gray before his time. Tom O'Matley, the former proprietor of this column, wrote to say that Jackie delivered Maureen Patricio Nov. 19, their fourth. Penny and John O'Meoro welcomed their fourth, Patrick, Nov. 
24. Jerry Hughes, another Air Force birdmon, said that he, too, expects overseas orders soon. Ginger and Honk Giez won the Christmas cord originality awards hands down. Now confess. Honk, Ginger composed that great copy! High­light of their year was the arrival of Catherine. Gail and Joe Kearney had a great holidoy as Michoelo arrived Dec. 19. That mokes five. 
Rick Hicks, who has been appointed vice-president of Dean Witter in Chicago, serves as director of the Catholic Adult Education Cen­ter ond associate trustee of the U. of Chicogo's Concer Research Foundotion. Fred Maroon has been appointed assistant to the president of Koscot Interplanetary, Inc., a Winter Pork, Flo. cosmetics firm. Our illustrious class agent, George She/fon, has joined the financial staff of the brokerage firm of Howe, Barnes & John­son, Inc., in Chicogo. Bob Lundquisf has been appointed trust officer of the Clinton County Notionol Bonk and Trust Co. in Wilmington, Ohio. Mike O'Toofe has been named assistant director in the group actuarial and underwrit­ing department of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. Pat Sheehan has been pro­moted to the newly created position of group mgr. at Trovenol Loborctories in Morton Grove, III. 
AF Moior At Pefronick has been decorated with the Air Medal for outstanding sustained service performance in support of air action in Southeast Asia. He is assigned to the 416th Bombing Operations group as on aircraft com­mander. Major John Roberts has been assigned to the Aerospace Defense Command at Tyndoll AF6, Flo. 
Paul Fullmer 1922 larkdale Glemlew, III. 60025 
'55L EVEN FROM ORANGE The Low Centennial held Feb. 8 and 9 at ND brought bock some fond memories and allowed us to renew acquaintances with several of our friends, whom we hove not seen in many years. Attending were Dave Curry, who is practicing low in Hartford, Conn.; Bob German, who ts 
practicing low in Chicago; Pat Smith from La 
Porte; Dick Miller ond Jock Coyne from Qeve­
lond; Rev. Don Kunkel, who now is stationed 
at Foyetteville, Ark.; and Bob Evefd, who b 
with Litton Industries and lives in Orange, 
Calif. Too bod that others of our Class cottid 
not hove been present. 

John Houck hos been extremely busy since h* 
took a bite out of that apple and ate the evi­
dence during his practice trial court case in our 
last year in Low School. Married to Mary 
Dooley, John now hos three active children and 
spends most of his time as ossoc. prof, at ND 
Business School. Following graduation, John ob­
tained, among other degrees, a Master of Law 
degree from Horvord. Besides his teaching duties, 
John has been active in mony other ND offdirs. 
He was co-chairman of the ND symposium: 
"The Kennedy Administration in the American 
Economy" in 1964, and chairman of the NO 
conference: "The Process of Accommodation-
Highway Beoutificotion and Outdoor Advertis­
ing" in 1967. He has been extremely active in 
the American Association of University Profes­
sors, having served os President of the ND 
chapter from 1965 to 1967 and as a nominee 
to and a consultant for the AAUP in 1967 and 
1968. Presently, he is o member of the ND Fac­
ulty Committee on the revision of the Faculty 
Manual; Vice-Chairman of the Student Life 
Council at ND; and a lecturer at St. Mary's of 
the Woods. 

John also has been busy in community af­fairs, serving as o Director of the South Bend Urban League from 1961 to 1963, as President of the Catholic Interrociol Council in 1963; as President and Director of the St. Joseph County Mental Health Association for 1968 and 1969; and presently serving as a Director of the Michigan Public Broadcasting Corp. a non­profit public service television station. In recent years, John has turned his many talents to the writing field. 
Our Law Review editor, Robert 0. leMense, joined the firm of Whyte, Hirschboeck, Minohan, Harding & Harlond from Milwaukee, Wis. after graduation. Bob's experience has run from trial work to corporate finance and banking. He has become a respected authority on SEC matters ranging from public oflerings to tender offers and proxy fights. He has helped put together a bonk holding company, which owns 13 banks and which Bob personally steered through the Fed­eral Reserve Board. In 1963, Bob was made a partner of his firm, which firm, by the way, in­corporated recently os o service corporation, to take advantage of the tax advantages recently permitted low firms. 
Following graduation from low school, John 
A. Vuono received his Master of Low degree from the U. of Pennsylvania. In 1956, John joined the firm of Delisi, Wick & Vuono, be­coming a partner in 1960. John's practice con­sists mainly in interstate commerce commission motters and various state regulatory commis­sion oppearonces. He has also found time to write o number of low review articles for lead­ing low schools, several book reviews and mon­ographs and personally conducts on annuo! course in Interstate Commerce Commission low and practice for the Pittsburgh Bor. Lost sum­mer, he was a member of the faculty at a week-long Continuing Legal Education progrom held at the U. of Denver Law School. Bronching out, John was recently mode chairman of the Prac­tice and Procedure Committee of the Motor Carriers Lawyers Assoc. John, his wife Louise, and four children reside in Mt. Lebanon, Pa. 
I wish to remind one and oil again, that our Class is pointing towords a 100% turnout at the 15-year Reunion to be held in June of 1970. Keep this date in mind and keep your letters pouring in. 
John P. Coyne filO National City Bank BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
'56 SANDWICHES AND 
SOUTHERN CAL 
Of particular interest this issue is our Closs 
reunion. Your officers, along with Don Corlin 
and Jim Massey, hove set up the Southern Col 
game as our Class reunion project. We hove 
arranged to get the Continuing Educotion 
Center for refreshments and sandwiches after 
Itie gome. If it is possible to put the class to­
gether as a group for the gome, this will 
facilitate doing so. More information in the 
next issue. 
Don Corfin advises that while attending the ND Law School onniversory weekend he visited with Tom Crehon who is practicing law in Los Angeles. Tom's wife recently gave birth to their first daughter. Don olso saw John Kennedy, who is on the Kentucky Low School faculty, and Pat McCarlan, Cleveland attorney. 
Mike Kiley recently won the American Bor Assoc. Traffic Ct. Award. Mike is a Municipal Judge and a practicing attorney in Marion, Ind. He and his wife, Carol have three children. Mike, who didn't mention winning the ABA award in a note he dropped me, reports that he has seen Mike Mufrooney, now a Mojor in the Marine Corps. 
John Murray and his wife Nell (No. Dakota U) live in Alexondria, Vo. with their two children. John is with the Justice Dept. os a tax lawyer in the trial field, and frequently sees other classmotes in the orea—Pefe Cannon, Jrm Gom­mon, Frank Beytaugh (also with the Justice Dept.) 
Jock Hagan sends geetings from New Orleans where he, wife Joan and two daughters have Iwed since lost fall. Jock has been promoted to Instruction Mgr. of IBM's Dist. Education Center. Jock reports that he recently visited with Ken Davis, John McShane and their wives who live in Atlanta. 
Henry Neuhoff was promoted this month to the Boord of Directors of the family firm, Neuhoff Bros. Meat Packers. Henry and his wife Kay ore the proud parents of four boys ond three girls. 
Bob Simkins is now employed by Tuttle Press Co. as purchasing agent. Bob writes that Hons (Pete) Hansen is head of Naval Intelligence in Son Diego; and that John Gschwind is o vice pres. of Appleton Mfg. Co. 
Please remember in your prayers the mother of Kichard D. Crowley who died Dec. 31. 
William J. Nitschke was oppointed marketing mgr. for common carrier mobile products of the Communications Div. of Motorola. Bill, his wife Kathleen and two children live in Northbrook, III. 
Edward A. lynch, Jr. has been named vice pres. of Operations Research Industries, Ca­nadian subsidiary of Operations Research, Inc. He will provide technicol direction in economic analysis and programming systems at the Ottawa Tech Center. 
Chris Eckf, monoging editor of the Georgia Bulletin for the post 2'/, years, resigned Nov. 1. 
(Copt.) John W. Brogon, M.D. completed the medical service officer training basic course at Brooke Army Medical Center at Ft. Sam Houston, Tex. 
Congratulations to Bob McColdrick ond Jim Mossman on their election to the General Alumni Board. We know they both will do an outstanding job. 
Dr. Frank Dega and wife had a baby girl Oct. 29. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 
656 EHicolf Sq. Bidg. 
Buffo/o, NY J4203 
'57 CHINESE LAUNDRY Here's hoping thot we survived the Hong Kong and other epidemics of this post winter. It's my understonding thot housewives showed the first symptoms of the flu by resurrecting irons ond doing their husbands' shirts for the first time 

in years. 
In a serious vein and yet with an eye for a 
good old lime, it has been suggested to me by 
several of our local classmates that on un­
official reunion be initiated for the ND vs. 
Tulane Game in New Orleans the eve of Oct. 
25, 1969. I ask any and all who ore interested 
to advise as soon as possible in order that 
some sort of hospitality room con be arranged 
and maybe even group transportation and hotel 
arrangements. I am not a travel agent so this 
is not a business promotion. 
Out of the sunny skies of Modesto, Calif., 
comes word from Dr. Lorry Cooke that a gong 
of 'S/'ers met at the ND vs. U.S.C. gome 
which included Drs. Bob Bronnick, Bill Bell, Art 
Johnson & Jim Cusack. The only layman in the 
group was K. J. Phelan from Oak Park, who 
attempted to diagnose the game strategy for 
the Docs. Also Orlando Maione and Bill Koby 
were in the stands cheering ND. 
After writing my last column, I received a 
letter from Bill "Red" Ryder of Rndloy, Ohio, 
which was a much more complete resume of the 
roster attending our gathering after the Illinois 
gome. Red is in the newspaper and P.R. game 
with Marathon Oil Co. and it certainly shows up 
in his recall of names, etc. Red exchanged 
greetings with John Sure, Jack D"Arcy, Al Reil/y, 
Ken Woodward, Jack Nofond, Ron Lorenzini, 
Dove Murphy, and Greg Corrigon. Also, Red 
advises thot Al Lum is bock at ND working on 
his PhD and that Jim Weber is covering the 
labor front for the Akron Beacon Journal. Jim 
McCarthy is in Mundelein, III. and is on editor 
for a technical publication. 
Out of St. Louis comes the word from 
Charlie "Hot Shot" Willenberg where he is an 
insurance broker with the Lowton-Byrne and 
Bruner Insurance Agency. Charlie is moving 
into the Lupke & Weiss neighborhood and bets 
are being token as to who will move out 
first. Charlie visited with Tom Guilfoife out of 
Fond du Lac, in St. Louis recently. 
Mark Alafey has returned to St. Louis from 
NY after a recent promotion. 
A nice note has been received from Mrs. Maureen Betterton, wife of Tom Betterton and we're advised that they ore now living in Norfolk, Vo., where Tom is on naval aviator LCdr after receiving his Master's and Engineer's degrees from MIT in 1966. Tom is a deportment head at the Naval Air Re-Work Facility. They hove three sons. It's always nice hearing from the ladies. 
Recently the writer was in search of a painting for our new home and was recommended to a gallery known as the fferitoge Gallery on the South Side of Chicago and upon entering I noticed oils of some familiar scenes such as Sorin Hall, St. Mary's Lake and the Grotto and sure enough the brains and talent behind the operation is our own John Simmerling. I'll be bock John—save a few for me. 
Jon. 31 I returned to the Campus for the Leahy Testimonial Dinner and a small reunion was assembled with the return of John Mc­Donald, Jim Milofa, Joe Bosse, Jim Morse, Bob lake, Jim Munro, Bob Coyne, Paul ffornung. Gene Hedrick and Ed Sullivan. The evening will long be remembered. 
Gene Hedrick come in from Wapiti, Wyo, where he is in the teaching field plus real estate development. We sot up into the early hours talking of his great western country and it's enough to moke a city boy like me wont to go west. 
Recent word from the Alumni Office is that our boys are making their mark in the business world with Maury Sardi promoted to South Central Dist. Soles Mgr for Westinghouse in Dayton, Ohio and Pat Conway appointed staff Mgr of Real Estate for Control Data. Pot is living in Bloomington, Minn, with his wife and three children. 
Congratulations to the Bill Maddmts on the 
Western 

KoRMAN RAEBEN '52 doesn't worry about whether the market is bullish or bearish anymore, and if the Dow Jones Industrial Average drops five or ten points it no longer shakes him. Why? Because he's the proud new owner of his own market. 
Raeben decided to go the boys on Wall Street one better and he founded the United States Merger Ex­change. The San Francisco based op­eration has been functional since this past September and its aim is to do for mergers what the New York and American stock exchanges do for stocks and bonds. 
After getting an early start in busi­ness at the age of 15 as the country's youngest telegrapher, the Butte, Mon­tana native spent four years at Notre Dame and earned his law degree from Boalt Hall in Berkeley. Getting his feet wet in big business and subse­quent West Coast ventures eventually led him to found Management World Consultants, an international consult­ing firm. 
Not one to rest for any length of time on his laurels, Raeben came up with his unique new concept and the USME became a reality. As the first major exchange in the country in more than 119 years, the USME per­forms the same general fimction as does its eastern cousins — placing buyer and seller together in an orga­nized market. The major difference is that it deals in mergers rather than stocks and bonds. 
Commenting on the purpose of his 
Union 

new ventnie, Raebai sayi, l^ s onr hope to give the small and medium-sized companies in the VJS. and oilier cotmtries a new spirit of identity and independence^ by virtue of the fact that through the USME they can elect to merge witii one another and operate freely, if they ao ehoaBe." 
The main advantage of Raeben's brainchild is that it brings companies interested in expansion together for confidential and effective discnssion. The computer-based "matchmaking" service costs considerably less than the practice of maintaining a merger and acquisition staff or of obtaining outside merger consultants, which smaller business operations can gen­erally ill afford. 
Norm Raeben is a man with a knack for making nniqae ideas wodc He is also an optimist. "Over 3,500 major mergers will take place in the n.S. in 1969," he predicts. "And other areas of the world are rapidly joining the market for mergers and acqniations in order to keep up with worid growth." In other words, he sees a bright future for his new exchange. 
His optimism lends him the oppor­tunity to draw a parallel -with his­tory. "Just as Alexander Hamilton's war bonds created a market for bonds in 1792, modem growth IHIW creates a market for mergers. The market that got its start in 1792 is now called the New York Stock Exchange." The 1969 market is the USME. 
Amen, Brother Raehen, amenl 
N. Rwben promotes his iww idea. 
birth of No. 5, o son, in November. upstate New York for the Service Bureau Coq>. 
George W. Grobfe The Borrs now hove two boys ond two girls, 
111 West Woskinglon Street the lotest of whom orrived lost November. 
Chfcogo, tltinoh Thomas J. Kaiser, M.D., graduated from the 
Class Secretary of 19S7 U. of Michigan Med School, interned at San 
Roncisco Generol Hosp., served for Kro years 
*58 DOTS AND DASHES with the Army at Lettermon Hosp. at Ft. Pre­
The news for this edition is very limited, which sidio, and finally spent four years in residency 
situation. Dear Reoder, we hope you will help in Son Francisco, speciolizing in cardiology. He 
rtmady for the next issue. anticipates beginning proctice n the Boy area 
Bob Waters is on the Sales /Management staff next July. Tom was married in 1965 and now 
of Chesebrough-Pond's Inc. in Chicago, hie will, has two daughters. 
however, soon be transferred to the Philadel-Walter C. O'Keefe is or. the staff at Pidoting, 
phio-Ballimore-Woshington region. Bob and wife at Dover, NJ. Walt, on aeronautical engineer, 
Noncy hove two children. ond his wife Fran have four children. 
Watt Smitfte is now with the family furniture Copt. Richard A. Di Camillo is on duly at 
and applionce business in Chicago, having left Tuy Hoo AB, Vietnam. A pilot, he is a member 
IBM. Walt, his wife Flo ond their five kids live of the Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Service. 
in Park Ridge. Arthur L Route, Jr. 
Ed Bouer is engaged in the recruitment of 102 "I" Street stewardesses for American Airlines, according la Porte, Indiana 46350 to Bob Woters. 
Bob Colaizzi was recently married and is a '59 HAPPY PUCK FAN partner in a public relations firm, "ICON " in Pot DeFoe is presently plant engineer with Ohio. Norton Co., Electric Furnace Plants, in Chip­
James SmitI), Jr., is with the J. Walter Thomp­pewa, Ontario. He and Betty Jean have been son advertising firm and within the last year married since May, 196S and hove a yeor-ofd has been transferred from New York to Chicago. daughter, Suzanne. Pat is taking night courses Jim, wife Virginia, and their three daughters at the U. of Buffalo, working on his MBA, and reside in Borringlon, III. is extremely pleased with Lefty Smith's suc­Old roommate John Russo is still with Cos-cesses with varsity hockey at ND. The Biff Cob, manufacturers of women's sportswear, in Furys hove moved to 1665 Villa Road in Bir-New York. John and Anne now have two daugh­mingham, Mich, and both plan to be here for ters, the younger of whom was born last St. the reunion. Charlie Caravati is now employed Patrick's Day ond, strangely enough, was chris­OS the controller of Root Co. and Shawnee tened Patricio. Airlines in Daytona Beech, Flo. Eileen (wife), 
W, David Holthouse has become associated Kevin (6) and Ellen (3) ore very ton and re­with the firm of hlorris, Uphom & Co. os a port that the Fla. sunshine is the greatest, registered sales representative in their Boca Croig A. Hillyer and Borboro Lasiewicz were Raton, Flo., office. married Aug. 18, 1968 (with Jim Cr/smon at­
James M. Barr is group sales engineer for tending), and Craig is about "99% certain 
Congrats 
Thomas A. Melfe '53 has Patrick J. Sheehan '54 been promoted to vice has been promoted to 
group manager of pur­president of the United chasing for Baxter Lab­States Trust Company of oratories, Morton Grove, New York. He is now in Illinois. The company the Estate Planning De­manufactures and mar­partment of the Trust 
kets a diverse line of pro­Administi-ation Division. ducts in the health field 
around the world. James R. Jones '53 was appointed vice president Louis A. Centlivre '55 of marketing services for has been elected a vice Sklyline Coi-poi-ation, Elk­president of Kenyon & hart, Indiana. In his new Eckhardt Advertising of 
New York. He joined the position he will be re­company a year ago to sponsible for corporate supervise the Lincoln-staff marketing and ad­
Mercui-y account. 
vertising for all divisions and products. 
Nicholas J. Schmelzer '56 
and family are on their James S. Hearons '54 way to Brussels, Bel­is the new vice president gium. Nick is the new 
field sales manager for and general manager of Hyland Products - Conti­of the Fiberglass Indus­nental Europe, for Baxter trial Materials Division of Laboi-atories, Inc. With Owens - Coming, Toledo, the company for nine Ohio. Since 1967 Hearons 
years his latest position 
has held managerial posi­was product manager for tions in the division. the intei'national division. 
that Tom Brandenberg wrote the Belhirs Let­
ftr." After graduation, Fronk X. Mooibrugger 
took a job ot the Novol Avionics (ticility in 
Indianapolis, where he is presently d deputy 
engineering program mgr. Oct. 14, 1961 Fronk 
married Glendys Sherrill Wagner, a grod of 
Memorial Hosp (S.B.) Sch. of Nursing, and now 
a nursing mgr. at Community Hosp. They often 
see Art Cheney and wife Joan for bridge, even 
though the Cheneys moved to Colembus, Ind. 
where Art is with Arvin Industries. A new In­
dianapolis resident is Wayne Foist, who switched 
from Thor Power Tool Co. in Aurora, III. to 
Jenn-Air Corp. of Indianapolis, where Wayne 
(S intemat'l marketing dir. Renee ond the four 
children moved to Nop-town in June. Look 
them up at 6551 Corrow Dr. 
Harriet Dorsey wrote for her husband, MaJ. James J. Dorsey, who is with the Army in Vietnam. Jim will be home sometime this month to spend some time with his five daugh­ters: Volarie (10), Potricio (8), Betty Lou (6), Terry Ann (4), and Jean-Marie (2). Harriet plans to Howard Johnson-it with the wives during the reunion. Also in Vietnam is James L. Bozony. The Bozonys returned from a two-year tour of duty in Italy with the 45th Field Hosp. in August, '67, and Jim left for Vietnam in Dec. after completing a three-month course at R. Som Houston. While serving in the Far Eost he has received the Army Commendation Medal with double oak leaf cluster, the Air Medal, the Bronze Star, and the Purple Heart. Jim is assigned to Hdqs. and A Co., 9th Medical Btn., 9th Infontry Oiv., APO Son Fran. (96370). When he returns to the States (ond wife ond five sons in Cincinnati) he will ot­tend the six-month "Career Course" at Ft. Sam Houston. 
Worren Albriglit's tidbits include: Bi/( Mc-Cuffough has moved to Monroe, lo. , John Fazio IS "living it up" in Manhattan Beach, 

Calif, with beoch house, sports car, etc., and 
Jon Siddle is just back from vacationing in 
England and Ireland. Mike Phenner, and Mary, 
his wife of a little more than a year, often 
make it to South Bend, where Mike "recruits" 
ND lawyers for his firm, Hopkins and Sutter. 
The Phenners ore living on the near north 
side of Chicago. Charlie PhitUps "married that 
dream of a nurse," Marie Curto (from Mid­
land, Pa.) and they have two sons, Charles and 
David, and a daughter, Cynthia Marie. The 
Phillipses are living in Charleston, W. Va. and 
Charlie is with Bell Telephone. The F. James 
Sellers moved last summer from Windsor, Conn, 
to No. 6 Avon Belds Place, Cincinnati (45229) 
and Jim is now with General Electric, Evendale 
OS an analytical engineer. No report on lou 
ICigih since he left for Libyo on his latest audit­
ing assignment for Mobil Oil. 
Jim Paulis's Beverly sent in his yellow post 
card, reporting that they hove left their native 
St. louis for Detroit, and B. F. Goodrich. 
There ore three other Poulises: Lisa, Mary Lynn 
and James, Jr. Greg Devers was lost reported 
in Boston. Rev. Jim Wolzke CSC (BA, '59, and 
MA '63), after two ana" a half years of teach­
ing and reseorching (Social Religions) in San­
tiago, Chile is now studying sociology at 
Harvard. Rev. lorry Calhoun CSC is teaching 
biology at ND High School, Niles, III. and is 
the varsity fencing coach. He is an ofRcer of 
the HI. H.S. Fencing Coaches Ass'n, and was 
the III. chm. for the Junior Olympics. His team 
placed 4th in the state last year and Fr. Larry 
coaches two of the top high school fencers in 
the Midwest. 
The condolences of the doss ore extended to 
Bill Robi (death of his mother), John D. Buck 
(death of his father) and Mike Derrane (death 
of his mother). 
Joseph P. Mulligan 
Admissions Office 
Noire Dame, Ind. 46556 
•60 IN MY NEW-YEAR HEART I FEEL NO FURY . . . EVEN AT THESE TRAMPLER5 OF SNOW 
CATCH UP TIMEI Jerry Converse received PhD in behavioral science from the U. of Del. in June. Since '63 he has been studying the field of reading under the direction of Dr. Russell Stouffer to be able to train teachers and do research in reading. From '65 to '68 he worked with federally funded reading programs in Wil­mington. He is currently working with the Dept. of Public Instruction to improve the quality of reading instruction through in-service pro­grams. He and Claudia have recently adopted Polly Elizabeth, Dr. luino Oell'Osso, ii a research scientist in the product research div. of Cont. Oil Co. R & D Dept., Ponca City, Oklo. 
WHEW! and John C. Merchant covers 11 west­ern states as reg. soles mgr. for the Ampex Corp. Daniei J. Burke ran for reelection as Essex County Commissioner. He is the youngest county chairman and youngest elected county official in Mass. Jim Flannery reelected to State House of Repr. 48th Ohio District. Congrotsl Tom P. Quinn is not'l. soles mgr. for Raytheon Comp. in Santa Ana, along with Sheila and five — would you believe sixl? (They returned to Chi for holi­days). Tom Hirons (Cathy and Mike) invite oil to o "great place," 2133 B 47th St., Los Alamos, 
N. Mex.l 
John Christen ogoinl Recently headed Terre Haute county area Christmas Seal & Bond drive. He is also pres. of local ND club. 
ROUNDUP TIMEI whilst we schuss — Has-brooks moved to new address in E. Lansing (414 Southlawn); Lollys still in Tim Tom country.­ieachs in Dallas; Wholen in Frominghom, Mass.; Filzpolricks J. Raymond, bock (?) in Glenside, Po.j Zlolnicks (Mark's new) in Roches­ter, N.Y. (by the by — no current info on Hoey 
& lyons]} Dick Benkendorfs in Lake Forest; and 
old P. J. Potter is in Chi town with IBM — 
Arlington Hts. 
HERE'S Jimmy Harrington from Plainfield, 
N.J. OCS Newport and then plush duty as P.I.O. on an Admiral's staff in Son Juan. Duties for three years included world travel OS officer in charge of the 10th Naval Dist. Steel Bond (sec. — he's gotta be kidding) . . . met Ruth Daniels, a Wave oflicer and married in '62. December '63 went to Eastern Airlines as soles repr. in D.C. area, working Pres" Pad, Tea Pot Dome Home and embassies. Flew with Goldwoter & Miller in '64 as Eastern's rep. Uec. — I'm not going to touch that one!) Since '66 with Benziger Publish­ing Co. as soles rep. in N.J. & Brklyn. Along with James, Stacey, & Dana he's at 1158 Loroine Ave. and would like to hear from Bill O'Connor, Mike Ehrenreich, & Jerry Murphy. 
OKAY HERE'S MURPHI. ..".. . some good 
news here at Wheaton Col. for Women, Nor­
ton, Mass. (sec. — thot's good enough!) pro­
moted to Asst. Prof, of Gov. (after PhD) — 
teaching Chinese and S.E. Asian politics among 
others. 
Unfortunately, Jerry, there's bod news today. 
Out of Marlton, N.J., and John Walker comes 
word of the fall of Richvalsky (sob!) and un­
believably, the demise of J. C. 12/28/68. Car­
refto has fallen, long live . . . On the bright 
side, McCarey finally wrote. Not Tom, Judy! 
From Boxford, Maine, where "he is with GE 
in Lynn, involved in the jet engine div." 
Wilkes from Ballwin, Mo. (Sue, that is) . . . 
"He is still at the Priory and has come out 
of retirement to take over as varsity foot­
ball coach again. He has also entered adminis­
tration of school OS o master (like assist, prin­
cipal). He enjoys all his new duties, but they 
keep him busy. The five children ore growing 
faster than we can keep up with." Bernardi is 
at R. Monroe, Hampton, Vo. Still seeing Navy 
games with ZIotnicks, Lyons, MclCennas, and 
Brunellis. Judy and S^ip Easterly added Mat­
thew to Mary, Betsy, Ellen & Patrick in Tampo. 
Denver has a bi-monfhiy luncheon for us'ns at the Athletic Club. Contact Greg Rogers at 2500 S. York, Apt. A2. Chicago will hove some in form of cocktail hour if a minimum of two imbibers contact me! 
Thomos J. O'Connell 
3350 Everett 
Lake Forest, III. 

'60L SOUNDS OF SILENCE John Borgerding has at long lost broken his silence. He comploins that the needling he has received in prior issues prompted drastic ac­tion — such OS typing his own letter. John and Mary Anne now have six children, four boys and two girls. Sorry I can't help you out on babysitting as in the old "VeNille" days, John, but Beloit is too far away, and besides, I hove a boy and girl of my own. John feels that Bill Cusler should now get some ribbing, hopefully with the some result. Even further, John feels that Bill might be buried in those N.Y. Hills where clients some-limes barter for legal services. Other choice comments were mentioned but can await o future issue and give Jean and Bill Custer a chance to come forward. At the time of this writing, preparations are being made to travel to ND to receive the elusively important "JD" degree to which we are all entitled, due to the gracious, unex­plained action of the law faculty. Problem: How do you explain a JD degree dated 1969 and on LLB degree dated 1960, with no scho­lastic effort in between! Hope most of you will have attended the great event. 
John A. DiNordo 
721 Hinman Ave. Evanston, Illinois 60202 

'61 BLAME HONG AND SANTA Sorry I missed the last article, but due to ih * flu bug and the invasion of Santa I didn't stand much of a chance. I was in Chicago tai DtCMi­ber and I am sorry to report that Uikt Cronin hod on accident. He slipped under o train and lost the toes off one of his feet. So if you get 0 chance, drop him a lino. W « sura hop* every­thing is coming along fine, Mike. Stan Fedewa hos been appointed public in­formotion consultant for the Midi. Assoc of Non-Public Schools. TI M organization represents the major nonpublic school systenis in Michi­gan in educational and policy matters. John Cole has been named as associate buyer for the 
J. L Hudson Co. in Detroit. Frank iMcGuone hos been awarded the Juris dcgra* from the 
U. of Cnci. Fred Clark recehred a PhD in education from Mich. Stole U. 
Joel Haggard is working for Boeing Co. Aerospace Div. as o research engineer. He is also a statewide coerdinator for doorbeliing in the reelection campaign for Gov. Don Evans. Anthony Sorce on assist, prof, in art at Nazareth Col. was announced as a winner of 
o Guggenheim Fellowship volued at $6,000. John Schiffgens received his M.S. degree in Solid State Science from Penn. State U. last March. Joe Fngel wrote and told me that he is married to the former Toni Dura of Arlington Hts., III. Joe and Toni hove two children, Joey and Mary Catherine. Joe is V.P. of Engel Ad­vertising Inc., Chicago, where ho has been for the post four years. John Covolier wos recently appointed os Branch Mgr. of the Uptown NY Branch Soles office of Itek Business Products. Don Chmiel has joined the household products div. of Lever Brothers Co. as on assist, product mgr. 
I received a letter from Jack Costin and his wife Debro. Jack and Debro are living at 3600 Chateau Dr., Apt. 202, Columbia, S.C. Jack is employed by a city plonning-enginecring firm, Wilbur Smith and Auociotes. He's obo doing family planning of his own! Kevin Curran is now in his 3rd year of ophtholmology residency at the U. of Missouri in Columbia, Mo. Kevin and his wife Mary and their son Mike will be heading for the Navy this July. 
Neol Golione after recehring his M.A. degree in Management from Rensseloer Polytechnic Inst, in 1962 has been working for the N.Y. Telephone Co. where he is a supervisor in charge of computer services in Brooklyn, NY. Neol married the former Pot Grohom of Phila­delphia and they have a son Williom. They ore living in Huntington, long Island. 
Brian Tuohy wrote and told me that his wife Eileen gave birth lost December to a baby boy whom they ore calling Mothew Brendan. Brian has recently been appointed assist, director of the 1 N A Mend Institute at Human Resources Center, Albertson, NY, a program of. research and education geared toword rehobilitotion and loss prevention for the disabled. 
Jerry Shelton was transferred as the District Operating Mgr. with Firestone Tire and Rub­ber Co. in Allen Pk., Mich. Jerry has two chil­dren, Jeff and Jill. Jim Shanahan moved lost September from Omaha to Mihwoukee where he is on investment counselor with Loomes Sayles and Co. 
That's it for now. Please use the yellow cords in the ALUMNUS and drop me a note. The info is getting o little thin. 
Bill Henneghon 
30556 Scrivo Dr. Worren, Mich. 48092 

'61L CATCHY CLOSING New addresses: Col Abcod, 103 Colgate Avenue, Johnstown, Pennsyhronio; Dan O'Brien, 373 Long Hill Rood, Gillette, New Jersey; Tom Cluatralhs, 18807 Stare St., Northridge, California, 91324. I received a very newsy Christmos letter from Tom, stating that he hod left Washington and Government service and ii taking o job in 
private industry in Beverly Hills. 
A note from Tony Bruno expressed interest in 
our proposed reunion in June of 1971. I would 
appreciate it if all of you would start thinking 
about this and give me an indication of your 
interest or lack of it. 
Our Class had a very small representation at 
the Centennial celebration lost weekend, but 
I did get a chance to chat with John Hhshfeldf 
Larry Howard, Tom Schofer, Ed Hardig and Art 
Route, who hos, incioentally, token the big 
step and became engaged, with o summer of 
1969 wedding in the wind. 
1 also heard that John FifzpafrfcJc has been 
married, but I didn't get any of the details, and 
that BUI Girard is now practicing in Milwaukee. 
I sow Bill Kennedy in Minneapolis in Novem­
ber and heord that John Plainer is the father of 
a bouncing baby boy. 
A note from Peoria, Illinois, announced the 
candidacy of Mike O'Brien for Mayor of Peoria 
in the coming Municipal election. Best of luck, 
Mikel 
That's 30. 
John M. Moreland 
Boolcin & More/and 
2IV/2 East Main Street Ottumwa, iowa 5250? 
'62 DOCTOR. LAWYER, 
INDIAN CHIEF Dr. Jacfc Sfecker is presently a resident at U. of Virginia Hospital doing one year of urology research, Jock is married with two children. John Chestnut writes from Chicago where he is practicing patent law with the firm of Dawson, Tilton, Fallon and Lungmus. Jerry Qumn is now completing his third yeor in pathology residency at Duke. He and wife Dlone hove two children. Mike Fitzpalrick has returned from New Orleans to South Bend where he is now General Man­oger of all service areas on the Indiona Toll Road. fli7/ Klein has been promoted by North­western Bell Telephone to advertising and pro­motion supervisor in the Minneapolis area. Bill writes that Pete Kirk i? doing quite well with a bonk in Mexico City. 
Howie Schneeberger is currently a pilot with 
T.W.A. and living in Overland Park, Kan. Howie went through training with Dennis O'Con­nell, (currently flying out of NYC) and reports that Jock Schnoufae/t is currently in training. Tom Sfeeper is a Lt. in the Navy and Deputy Director of the Navy Public AfFoirs Office in Hollywood. Fronk Moorman sends a note from Thailand where he is a Captain in the Air Force. Frank related that this should be a long year what with wife MitzJ ond three children back in Chicago. John Kovacs is selling advertising for Fortune magazine in St. Louis. Pete Con­nolly is working for the Blue Cross Association in Chicago and living with wife Judy in Skokie. 
Charlie Monohon was made a full Lt. and Aide to the Admiral at Quonset Point Naval Air Station. Chorlie flew 253 Combat Missions os 0 member of Navy Air Squadron out of Atsugi, Japan. Jock V/aligora was recently appointed 
V. P. in charge of manufacturing at Palace Metal Products in New York. Jack writes that Hank Higgins Is working in Crystal Lake, 111. for American Farm Products and also has three sons. John Beckmon works with General Dynam­ics out of Forth Worth. Don Sullivan is with Bell Telephone Laboratories in Holmdel, NJ. Dan mentioned that Honk Miftefhauser has a PhD. from Northwestern and works for DuPont in Wilmington. Glen Hendry is the chief ac­countant of *'The Sporting News" in St. Louis. Finally Jock Nefson is doing research in brain physiology at National Institutes of Mental Heolth after finishing medical school at Harvard. Jack soys that Vince Sweeney lives m Wheelers, Pa. where he is writing o book about Marine Corps life. 
H. James Krauser 
8301 Garfield St. Bethesda, Maryland 20034 
'63 IN THAT ORDER! Tim Condon reports that he married Joan Word of San Mateo, Calif., graduated from U. Wisconsin Low, and passed the Illinois bar, in that order. He's presently associated with Shultz, Fahey and Street in Rockford, III. He has two sons, aged 4 and 2. John Kiriin reports that after finishing his Peace Corps stint in Chile in 1965, he hos been working toward a PhD in political science at UCLA. John married Anne Gullickson this post summer, and is teaching at, of oil places, (ugh) USC!! Good grief, Johnli Hove you no feelings? John Boko is proud father of two children, 2-year-old girl and Vj-yeor-old boy. He's work­ing as an internal auditor for McDonnell Douglos Corp. in St. Louis. John also reports that Charles Aten is now living in Florissant, Ma., with his wife and baby girl. The U.S. Navy has claimed Lt. Jim DEtanovich for the better part of the next 20. Jim is presently in Athens, Go., at the supply school, I surmise. Thanks for this report go to Dove Scheetz, who is now VP of the local ND club in Colorado Springs. Dove is working as na­tional sales mgr. for KRDO-TV in Colorado Springs, and is married now. Dave Roberts is stockbrokertng with Walston & Co., in Son Francisco, Colif. He is married and has a baby girl. Mrs. Jim Tur/ey tells us that Jim has been a systems engineer with IBM in South Bend since October of 1963. Boby Anne is now 3, and son Michael is 1, and the third child is on the way. Thanks for the note, Mrs. Jim! John Kelleher is now a civilian again, after almost five years with AF, including 15 mos. in scenic southeast Asia. Jock Hogon called here from Atlanta last night. He's still working for Piedmont Airlines as a sales rep, and travels all over the world, looking for lost Piedmont airplanes. Robert Stepsis is on English prof, at Lake Forest Col., and has hod a couple articles published recently. Copt. John T. Pehler is on duty at Nho Trang AB, Vietnam. Previously he was assigned to England AFB, La. Capt. John K. Yeckley has been awarded US pilot wings upon graduotion at Moody AFB, Ga. William M. Borth has joined the Urbana legal firm of Webber, Bolboch, Rhies and Foll-mer. Recently discharged from the Army, he holds the ronk of captain in the reserve. Capt. Edward A. Davis is on duty at Do Nang AB, Vietnam. Thomas J. firunner Jr will serve as Washing­ton liaison for the 3rd Congressional District when he joins the staff of Sen. Vance Hartke as 0 legislative aide. Rather <hort on material this time. Keep your letters and cards comingJI 
Thomas 8. Hofopp 
3121 Colonial Way, Apt. B Chamblee, Ga. 30341 
'64 TERRY, "YOGI," AND — Terrance P. Pehler graduated from Indiono U. Law School in June 1968. He also worked port 
time as an investigator for the Attorney Gen­eral. After passing the bar exam, he is now working for Kommins, LeMond, Corson ond Stewart in Indianapolis. 
Jim "Yogi" Nelson is working os an engineer 
at Martin Marietta Corp. near Denver, Col. ofter getting his MS from the U. of Denver. John Hargrove and his wife, the former Jane 
Nogle SMC '67 are the proud parents of a 
son, David John. Bill Meeker has been re­leased from active duty in the Navy and is now in low school at Fordham and living in Vi^tip­pany N.J. Bill and his wife Beth hove a 2-yr.-old daughter Mary Regan ond a new son Richard Higgins Ex>rn between the win over Navy ond Nixon's election. He's thinking of naming the next one "Spiro Dirksen Meeker"! 
Frank Kenny is now in San Froncisco working 
for his MBA at S.F. State Col. Frank spent 
three years in Vietnam, one year with the 
Army and two with Vinnell Corp., o govern­
ment contractor. Now living in Dedham Mass. 
ftizhard J. Coppa is working for Itek Corp. in 
Lexington. Richard and his wife Arline hove 
two children, Joseph Richard and their new 
arrival Susan Dolores. 
Dennis Flynn spent two years in the Army 
where he taught in Germany, Panama, Korea, 
Vietnam, Thailand, Howaii and points in the 
US. Dennis is now employed as a CPA for 
Arthur Anderson. He and his wife Margie hove 
two sons and ore living in Downers Grove, III. 
Kevin Smyth has been promoted to Employment 
ond Compensation Mgr. for the Central Div. 
of Kroft Foods and is now living in Wheoton, 
III. 
Frank J. Kenny Jr. graduated from Wharton 
Business School with his MBA and is working 
for Kidder Peobody in N.Y. John ft. fiowe has 
been appointed as Director of Public Informa­
tion at St. Mary's Col., Notre Dame, Ind. 
Linus J. Portman is living in Bridgeton Mo. 
with his wife Mary Lee and their daughter 
Julie Ann born in September. He is employed 
by Conductron Missouri as on engineer. Robert 
F. Burgfechtef completed internship at Hurley Hosp., Flint, Mich. He and his wife Bette hove 
o
 son, Jeff. Bob is now serving in the Air Force os a Chief Flight Surgeon at Duluth Aro. Bob Grohek and his family, Loren, Rob* bie (2), and Matt (1) ore living in Louisville, Ky. where his is working for B.F. Goodrich. Tom Mulinazzi and his wife recently adopted 

o
 son, Thomas Erin. He is working for the Louisville Tronsportotion Study after receiving his MSCE degree from Purdue in 1966. 


News from Austin, Tex. Skipper Vaughn recently married Barbara Horton and is finishing his MBA at the U. of Texas and going to work for Peat Morwick. Tom Schnifzius back in Austin working for Tele Com Corp. as on onolyst. He and his wife hove a son. Brent Joseph. Chris Carmouche and his wife had their second child, Christopher Brent and he also is with Tele Com os o staff attorney. 
James Boutrous received his MD from Loyola University of Chicago and is now serving in the Army. Jim was married in April '68. Bud Croin is in Dental School in Detroit at the Univ. of Detroit. Mike Currier is with the Arthur Anderson Company. He and Dorlene Unger SMC 1965 hove one daughter. Bill Mc­fnfyre graduated from the U. of Detroit Law School in June '67 and is presently o clerk for 0 Federal District Judge in Michigan. Richard Kasset groduoted from the Univ. of Michigan Law School and is serving in the US Navy. Walt ftoxey received his MB from the Univ. of Detroit Law School. Jim Stenger received his DDS from the Univ. of Detroit ond Ys-now in the Novy. Tom Reddy is practicing low in lower Michigan with his father. 
Will/am J. Pelasmark graduated from the 
Detroit College of Low in '67 and is practicing 
law in Detroit. He and his wife have two children. 
Copt. Michael J. Bradley has helped the 61st Militory Airlift Wing earn the US Air Force Outstanding Unit Award. He is an aircraft maintenance officer at Ton Son Nhut AB, Viet­nam. Wolfer E. Schluler has been named a Senior Sales Representative for Bsso products to industrial customers by Humble Oil and Re­fining Co., Pelhom, N.Y. 
Cloy Stephens Class 1964 206 Marian Ave. 
Fonwood, New Jersey 07023 
*64I. HEH. HEM—BEWARE 
There is on avalanche of news this time around due to the fact that I have missed the past three columns due to all sorts of excuses that %irould win a prize on "Can You Top This?" 1 use the term ovolonche loosely though, fellow 

•BOOKING
 for something to do during those long winter evenings? Beware — 

D.
 Jerry HcGlynn '60 was once in­volved in a similar quest and now he testifies there are no nights, only 16­hour workdays. 


In 1964 McGlynn decided that his work with the First National Bank in St. Louis wasn't enough and so the Mc­Glynn Management Co. was formed as a part-time enterprise. Management counseling is now Jerry's full-time job with clients as varied as the Missis­sippi Riverport Marina Corporation, a company involved in a 70-acre resort development, to the Volt Technical In­stitute, which does contract work with the federal government. Office of Eco­nomic Opportunity, in areas of public housing. 
Jerry really became a busy man, however, through his friendship with Rev. Joseph Kohler, of St. Bridget's Church in the near north side of St. Louis. 
Father Kohler had long been in­trigued by the px-ospect of rehabilitat­ing old houses in the neighborhood. When a family in need of housing came to him for help he pei-suaded a loan company to provide 80 percent and parish members 20 percent of a loan. At ?79 a month the family will eventually own their own home. From this informal beginning grew a larger but still informal effort to help people find homes and make them habitable. 
Late in 1964 the necessity of a more 
domers, because not many of you have been 
too generous with the news. 
Jim Mercurio wrote in September to announce that after three joyful years, he and the Army were parting company. He and wife Nancy proudly declare the birth of Jennifer July 25, and Oct. 1, Jim joined the Washington firm of Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kohn, 1100 Federal Bar BIdg., Wash. 20006. 
An announcement dated Jan. 1, declares that Bob Hanlon was admitted to partnership in the firm of Hanlon, Argeris & Amdur. This is good news not only for Bob but for me too as I had given up hope that I'd ever hear from him. Let us have o bit more news Robert, old friend. 
Mike and Donna Messina sent a card telling of the birth of Andrea Marie Aug. 17. Mike is practicing with A. Glenn Sowders Jr in Kansas City and is specializing in tax work. 
Mike Ryanf Mike Stepanicb and Mike Miller all attended the Low School's 100th Anniversary Convocation at which J.D.'s were conferred on those present. Mike Miiter is now Trust Officer and Assistant Vice-President of the f^rst Notional Bonk of Kenosha, Wis., and he and Kay are living in their own home at 5402 83rd St., Kenosha 53140. Mike has been admitted to the Wisconsin Bar and states that he'd be happy to accommodate anyone who wishes to place funds in the care of his department. This column offers congratulations and best wishes for future suc­cess to Mike and only asks that he, too, keep the news coming. Mike Ryan and Mario an­
Jerry McGlynn with his before and after. 
The St. iMuie ^"Oo'tf" 
systematic eflfort both in acquisition and rehabilitation became evident. Helped by the backing of prominent St. Louis civic leaders the Bicenten­nial Civic Improvement Corporation was formed to meet this need. Rapid expansion and more complicated busi­ness demands brought Jeri-y McGlynn into the act. Since 1967 he has worked as executive director of BCIC. The project received national importance when Mrs. Leonor Sullivan, a St. Louis congresswoman, succeeded in getting a bill passed known as FHA 221 (h) it makes available below-market-in­terest-rate mortgages through govern­ment financing. 
Jeriy enthusiastically describes the usual procedure in rehabilitating a building. "They rip off the outside 
nounce the adoption of Catherine Eileen Jon. 
20. They, too, are in a new house ot 1924 W. Virginia Ave., Peoria, III. 61604. Mike is still with the NLRB and was recently elected Execu­tive V-P of the union which represents all the clerical and professional employees of the Board. More congratulotions are in order and ore happily offered. Mike also reports that Jim Carroll "re-upped" for another 3-year Navy hitch and is in Germany. He and wife Julie ore expecting their first child — sure would like to hove some direct word from you, James Bridge! 
If I don't get o lot of news for the next column I'll begin to make up my own. Heh, heh. 
Thomas F, Connee/y One North loSofle Street 
Suite 701 
Chicago, /!(. 60602 

'6S SEC. IS FIGHTING IRISH 
Lorry fieshei's training with Boche & Co. in NYC to become a registered representative wos briefly interrupted in November when his wife, Lil (SMC "65), gave birth to their daughter, Elizabeth Erin. Soon Lr.rry will return to Chi­cago where he will work in the John Hancock Building. Jim Dwyer is also living in NYC where he has suspended his CPA activities to obtain on MBA at Columbia U. Jim reports an upset in the making—Tom Hawkins is en­gaged to marry Beth Ford in June. Also af Columbia U. studying International Business is 
stairway, drop a new one inside^ put in a new furnace, plumbing and wiring, remove the upstairs kitchen, expand the bathroom, improve walls and floors, put on a new roof, and build a fence. All for about |5,000. The families get a one-year lease that functions as a test for them, giving them time to decide whether with a 100-percent loan they want to be sad­dled with that $10,000 mortgage." 
In fielding objections thrown at him regarding some aspects of the work McGlynn will refer yon to the Moynihan write-up (Time 12/27/68) regarding the mess that the war on poverty is in . . . Jerry thinks that BCIC has escaped many of the pit­falls . . . and he has escaped those 
long winter evenings. 
Luis Gonzafez. Ed Burke is teaching history at a small Negro college near Philodelphia and Fran Harvey will receive his PhD in metallurgical engineering from U. of Pennsylvania this February. Larry ShefHetd is specializing in auditing brokerage houses for Arthur Andersen in NYC and Frank Gael is also working in the city for an investment bonking firm. Lt. J. G. Dick Murray will spend the remainder of his tour in San Diego and after two years in the Army Tom Kostefnik it bock working for Lybrond in Cleveland. 
Copt. Tom Fedor was married to Catherine Lokowski of Franklin Pork, 111. in Dec. '67 and is now completing his tour of duty as doto automation officer at Sewcrt AFB. John E. Fisher graduated from ND with o MSCE in June and now is employed os a civil engineer for Clyde E. Williams & Assocs in South Bend. John's wife, Kathleen, had a baby.boy, Andrew McGovem in March. Dick Oorko was married in June to Betty Jane Dawson of Indianapolis and in the same month groduoted from Indiana U. law School along with Phil Trippef end Ernie Aud—oil were admitted to the Indiana Bar in September. Dick is now working OS a low clerk for a U.S. district court justice in Indionopolis. fns. Jock Couch is serving on a destroyer in Vietnam while entertaining thoughts of returning to Pearl Harbor and an R&R of women, beer and lying in the sun. Jock received his ILB from ND and was ad­mitted to the New York Bar in 1M7. Ist If. Rick Corey is stationed as the mcdicol supply 
Conarats 
Leonard Di Giacomo '57 is now vice president and general manager of the Chicago branch of the D. H. Over­meyer Co., Inc. The company is a na­tional property management and pub­lic warehousing firm. 
Annhi F, Giimerman '58 has been made assistant manager of Data Proc­essing of Northwestern IMutual Life, Milwaukee. After receiving his degree in mathematics fi*om ND he began specializing in data pi-ocessing receiv­ing a certificate from the Manage­ment Association. 
Mm-Jc F. Kessenich '59 has been ap­pointed vice president in First Na­tional City Bank's Bond Administi-a­tion, New York. He began with the bank in 1965 as assistant cashier. 
/. Neil Stalter '60 has been promoted to assistant manager, Fibers Adver­tising, of Eastman Chemical Products Avith headquai*ters in New York. He was formerly in the plastics advertis­ing division. 
Jerome B, Kearns '61 has been elected a senior vice president of the St. Joseph Bank & Tinist Co. of South Bend, Ind. Kearns presently heads the Commerical Loan Department. 
William J. O'Donnell '66 recently as­sumed duties as Sales Ti*aining Co­ordinator for Chicago Seven-Up Bot­tling Co. He will be directly responsi­ble for training and development of the company's 200 plus sales person­nel. 
oflRcer for the 82nd Airborne Div. at Ton Son 
Nhut Airbase, Vietnam and Ut If. Dick DuFour 
h the ammo officer for the lOlst Airborne Div. 
Mffte Haggerty is new director of public 
relotions for the Kansas City Steers of the 
Midwest professional football league and reports 
that Jay Miller is ploying for the Indiana Pacers 
of the American Basketball Assoc, and Frank 
Carver continues to pick up track medals while 
running for the Philadelphia Athletic Club. Jim 
Morley was married in November to Jean 
Labelle in Chicago while Tony Corey is corn-
completing his lost year at DePaui U. Law School 
and Tom Hogan is undergoing basic training at 
R. Bragg as a member of the Notional Guard after having passed the NY Bar lost fall. Aram Jarret received his JO from Georgetown Low School in December and in October his wife Marilyn presented him with their second child and first son. Jay. Kevin Brenan and wife Dorothea hod their first child, Kevin Jr., in September Kevin graduated from Fordham U. Low School in June and is now working for the ontitrust division of the Justice Dept. in NYC. 
After obtaining a master's degree in civil engineering from the U. of Illinois in June '67, Ut If. John Leahy entered active duty and is currently stationed in Seoul, Korea with the Army Engineer Corps, where his unit is re­sponsible for design and construction of oil large military projects in Korea. Despite hts army status John spends considerable time directing construction of airport facilities for his "iet-jockey" classmates in the Air Force. Lt. Don Duffy is home from the war and has just put on his Lt. bars. Dan has been trans­fered to o fighter squodron which will ship out with the U.S.S. Kennedy in March for the Mediterranean. Dan is living with Mike Powers who is flying helicopters at NAS in Norfolk. Ens, Ben Beall is recovering from wounds received in Vietnam. In San Diego Lt. Jim Smithwick is instructing ot UDT School and U. Ed O'Goro is flying F-8's. 
Chuck Contino is currently working for Amer­ican Motors in Mannheim, Germany after having completed his Army tour lost March. Bob Gaensslen was presented in November with a daughter^ Elvira Kotherine, by his wife. Bob is working for his PhD in biochemistry at Cornell 
U. 
James P. HarniscH Apt. B, 863 E. Granville Rd. Columbus, Ohio 43224 
'66 NOT A MAN*S WORLD 
Not oil the *66ers receiving honors are moles. Sr. Rosemory Mt7/er PBVM received a scholarship for summer study at UCLA through o grant from the Nationol Committee for Educotion in Family Finance ond the Institute of Life In­surance. Sister is also on a committee to revise the constitution for the Notional Business Hon­orary Soc. for colleges. Among our mole doss-mates making news ts ftatph Phillips who spoke on biologicol warfare before officials of the Agriculturol Research Serv., US Dept. of Agri­culture at their emergency diseose seminar. Ralph is on instructor in Civil Defense Radio­logical Monitoring and is the CBR Alfa team chief. This team reacts to any chemical, bio­logical or nuclear accident occurring in Louisiana. 
Jim Plonka, who is working on his PhD in chemistry at Penn State, was married Sept. 7 in Eoston, Conn. Bill Greoney was married last spring and is now serving os division mgr. for Frigidaire Soles Corp. Mike McCaffrey and Nei'f Piefrange/i were present at the wedding. Ken Johnson is planning a winter wedding while working on his PhD ot Minnesota in engi­neering science. 
Pete Kesling, a father for the first time this summer, is currently completing his junior yeor at the U. of Cal. medical school. He and wife, Patricio, are living in the infamous Hoight­

Ashbury district of San Francisco. Bob lefBer, who married this June, was a summer visitor to the Keslings. Bob is currently at MIT. Ed Co/ior and Kick Dovis ore in Pittsburgh be­ginning their last year ot U. of Pittsburgh's low school. Dove McSorley is in Pittsburgh olso, where he is studying at Duquesne Low School. John Spengler received his master's from State 
U. in NY end is now in the doctoral program in otroospheric physics. He ond wife Corolyn ore proud parents of o young son, Matthew. 
Arturo McEnlee works for Cafe Listo, manu­facturer of instant coffee in El Salvador. Cesor Calani, recently married, is working ai El Solvador Cement Plant. Don Gulling is in Pitts­burgh working for US Steel. He and his wife were the proud parents of a daughter last August. Alfredo Gonzalez is working with Bax­ter Laboratories as o staff assistant to the man­ager of the Puerto Rico operations. His family has recenly hod a new addition, Alfredo Ri­cardo. Chris Eichhorn is teaching English ot the Rock County Campus of the U. of Wiscon­sin ofter getting his MA at Northwestern. Bob Blewitt is working as on electronics engineer ot Pratt ond Whitney Aircraft. Bob was worried a year ago October. Bern Herbenick and Keith Manville were present ot the wedding. John lydon is teaching English and Theology at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Calif. Dick frey is in Louisburg, Kan. running the Dick Frey Ford, Inc. automobile agency. 
The Armed Forces continue to occupy the lives of many of our classmates. Dominic T. Arcuri has received the Air Medal at Ft. Leavenworth for combat aerial support of ground operations in Vietnam. Paul S. Ferguson has completed the air defense officer basic course at the Army Air Defense Station, Ft. Bliss, Tex. William St. Paul is on duty at Nho Trong AB in Vietnom. Dovid Fletcher was re­cently married and is living in Monterey, Calif, where he is attending Naval Graduate School. Douglas Becker received his MS in aeronouticol engineering and has been assigned os o struc­tures engineer at Wrighf-Pafferson AFB. Doug wos morried lost October ond then in May attended the wedding of his ND roomie, Jim Donohue. Others present at the wedding were Jim Albright, Tom Clare and Bill Oberkampf, oil of the Closs of '66. 
Paul O'Brien recently arrived from Vietnam after serving with the Marine Corps for 10 months. He was oworded the Purple Heart for shrapnel wounds which he received in action. Dave Martin, Bill ZIoch and Mike Gilman hove olso just left for tours in Vietnam with the Marine Corps. 
Nick Arocic has recently finished submarine school with other '66ers Bob Lobrecque, Bill O'Dwyer, Tim Cullen, Jim Keiper and John McCoffrey. Randy Brunell, 1st Lf. USMC, re­ceived his master's in aerospace engineering at ND ond is now working on his PhD. He and wife Gail ore the proud parents of two beauti­ful children. Art Menaldi received his commis­sion OS Ensign USNR in July and then reported aboard the USS America where he was ossigned to the communications dept. He spent ap­proximately o year off the coast of Vietnam while aboord the ship. John Bishko has com­pleted 0 six-month tour of duty in Vietnom aboard the USS Biddle where he served as gunnery systems officer. 
Richard H. Angelotti 8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt. 203 Justice, ///. 60458 
'66U CENTURY OF CELEBRATION 
I ottended the centenary celebration of the low school, and was disappointed thot 1 did not see more of you. John Gotttick and 1 at­tempted to make up for our lock of numbers with a concentrated effort ot the celebration. 
Norm Mandel will begin civilian work with the Bureau of Field Operation, Federal Trade Commission, in Foils Church, Vo. Mar. 10. We look forward to welcoming him to Washington with the St. Patrick's Day Party, given in honor of Norm's favorite soint. 
Tom Brunner has joined the staff of Sen. Vance Hortke os a legislative aide. He will olso serve as Woshington liaison for the 3rd Congressional District. After low school, Tom received o master's in government in '67, mak­ing him our only "three degree from ND man." 
Etta and Scotty Maxwell sent a note with their Christmas cord and told us that all is fine in Philadelphia. Etta has managed to get the boys in nursery school and is taking life easy. Address — Quarters M-B-A, United Naval Base, Philadelphia, Pa. 19112. 
We received o lovely cord from Diane and Alike Morucci. Mike is still teaching at Wheel­ing Coll. and is now attending the U. of Pitts­burgh three nights a week, working on his Ph.D. Susan Beth Morucci was born lost January and is a year old now. Michael Jr. is five, and Maria wos three around Christmas. 
Peg and Mike Sullivan sent us on announce­ment that Kathleen Anne wos born Dec. 3 ond weighed in at B pounds, 11 ounces. Their twin boys — Joe and John —- were two in January. Address — 7031 North Ridge Boulevard, Chi­cago, III 60645. 
We received o cord from Copt, and Mrs. Martin Conway Jr, 20216 Marvin Rood, Wor­rensville Heights, Ohio 44128. I presume Pot is waiting for Marty's return from Vietnam. 
Pot and Marty Idzik sent a beautiful card from Germany ond a nice letter. Address — Copt, and Mrs. M. F. Idzik, J. A. Munich Branch, USA Comzeur, APO, New York 09184. They write that they should be in Munich for three years. They hove o spacious three-bedroom apartment ond Morty soys that he works pretty regular hours doing claims work for the Army. Pot is taking it easy. They note that the food and beer ore delicious and the countryside is breathtaking. They ore ideally located for traveling and plan to do o lot of it. They have already been to Vienna and hove seen a good deal of the Bavarian countryside. They ran into Don Foronocci who was in our closs first year. He is also stotioned in Munich. Don is married with a child due around the first of the year. They also sow Tom Peterson who is stationed in Grofenwoehr ond Pot and Marty hope to see Pete Ippolito this summer in Vin­cenza. 
Bob Murphy was promoted to Section Head for Mississippi in the Civil Rights Division. He is now responsible for everythng that happens in the state (legolly, of course) and has sev­erol attorneys working under him. Bob will be handling litigation for the government through­out Mississippi. 
I understond thot Sam Bernardi is legal coun­sel to Cliff and Otto's. Let's see the results of oil those New Yeor resolutions promising to send me more news. 
Frank  Gregory  
5018 Woodland  Way  
Annandale,  Vo. 22003  
'6 7  A  LON G  COFFE E  BREA K  
John J. Hughes  
99 W. 37lh St.  
Boyonne, N.J. 07002  
'67 L  MISTAKE  AMENDE D  

I apologize for the absence of our column in the lost issue, but I must implead the negligence of the Editor. Apparently he doesn't read my essays and his notice of deadline was sent to my old address in South Bend. It was then for­warded and arrived one day after the deadline. 
In the past two months I received a letter from the Margraves and two notes from Jack "Snoopy" Couch. Now if Jock con find time to write 'twixt bottle and battle, there would seem to be no excuse why I hoven't heord from the rest of the Class. A letter is welcome but not necessary — o postcard is fine. 
Jock hod good news: his ship hos left Viet­nam and he is on his way to Australio, Pago Pago end then Honolulu. We certainly hope his health holds out. His mailing oddress remaim the some: USS Toylor (DO-448) FK> San Fran-Cisco 99601. 
Bill SchffluM plons o fall wedding to Miss 
lorrie Bordo. No other delaib are available. 
By the way, die-hard bachelor Couch swears he 
will be the last of our Qass to marry. How 
'bout that Barkley? 
Now for the Hargroves. It's old news but the 
delay did ghre me time to get the full story. 
It seems it was the 1st quarter of a San Diego 
Chargers football game when Janie first got 
a twinge. The score was 0-0 and John hod paid 
$17.00 for seats on the 40-yard line, so he told 
her it must be the mustard on the hot dog dis­
agreeing with her. By the 2nd quarter, the situa­
tion didn't improve. The score remained 0-0 and 
Jonie insisted it couldn't be the mustard be­
cause John was the one who ate the hot dog. 
Half-time. In the 3rd quarter Jonie was positive 
her time hod come. John frantically tried to 
signal a time out but the ref ignored him. 
Desperate, John searched the crowd for help 
and finally found a kindly old man who agreed 
to take Janie to the hospital. John followed — 
right after the boll gome. Rnol score: Chargers 
0; Jonie, one son, David John. Oct. 20, 1968. 
Taking the Connecticut Bar with me last Dec. 27-28 (Merry Christmas') was Ernie itbote 1*68. We're still waiting for the results. Is ^onk Cihfor teaching ot the ND Low Sdiool? A note from the Editor indicated he was teaching law but foiled to mention the school. 
Communication from Joe Mortori, and it's all good news. Licensed to practice in DC and Arizona, Joe has token up residence in Phoenix and is associated with a large firm. But the shocker is that Paul M»y*r will ioin the some firm after he finishes his clerkship with Chief Justice Earl Warren next summer. The Dynamic Duo will undoubtedly set the Moricopa County Bar on its ear, and with the help of ffol Bliss who is also in Phoenix will establish a brain trust rivaling anything Washington has to offer. 
More good news from the Mortoris: Julie is awaiting the arrival of her fiistbom — in September. 
James C. Heinhold 
34 Wall St. 
Norwalk, Conn. 06850 

'68 HATS OFF TO MIKE Congratulations to our Class president, Mike MInton, on his engagement to Miss Mary Brom­loge of St. Mary's Col. The wedding has been set for June 2 ot ND. Ed Uebler has completed Army Reserve Train­ing ot Fort Ord, Calif, -and has returned to work with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. in Indianapolis, Ind. John A. Mounfcasffe is en­gaged to Miss Deirdre D. DeGormo of West Islip, L.I. John is entering the Coast Guard OCS program at Yorktown, Feb. 14. As was reported in the lost issue, your Closs secretary was to be married April 19, 1969, but due to my enlistment into Army OCS, the wedding plans hove been postponed. Bob Birzer was married to the former Miss Pamela Korlosky Dec. 28, and they ore now living ot 808 Riverview Dr., Apt. 77b, Colum­bus, Ohio. Bob is on occountant for Columbia Gos Systems Inc. Also of interest is that Pat Mkhoefa b attend­ing Georgetovm Law School. Mike Woods has mode it throogh his first six months of duty in the US Air Force, and is stationed ot Dayton, Ohio. Joe Hole, of Army ROTC {ome, b stotioned at Fort Bliss, Tex. Rich Fdlvcy is working for Arthur Aadefscn & Co. in South Bend. teonord J. Mtecchia 
31) Ml. rrnped Ave. Newark, NJ . 07104 

gl|!ii2n GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
An ND Ph.D. on ice and a last laugh for John 
The Hottest Thing 
E VEN SJIOKEY the Bear might have chuckled at tlie seemingly overcautious antics of John Cahalan 'Gl Ph.D. 'G8. But today John has the last laugh and he thanks his lucky stars he was so persnickety. 
For three long years he worked on his doctoral thesis in philosophy, while teaching at Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass. After completing his notes each day he wi-apped them care­fully in plastic and placed them neatly in—of all places—his refrigerator. He had heard the sad tales of other grad students losing their notes and was determined to avoid such an oc­cuiTence if at all possible. 
As fate would—and did—^have it, last April his home was destroyed by fire. When the firemen arrived on the scene and entered the flaming house they found the fruits of Cahalan's long labor well-chilled and well-pre­sei-ved in the refrigerator. From this "cold plate" of knowledge and ac­cumulated fact he proceeded to write his thesis, which was accepted this past January. 
In the introduction to his thesis Cahalan credits the Norge Corpora­tion, manufacturers of the refrig­erator, and the "ti-uly self-sacrificing men of the Worcester Fire Depait­
Cahalan. 


In Town 
ment, who entered a burning building to rescue the notes from which this dissei-tation has been written. It is my hope," he said, "that I will not be the only one to have benefited from that act of gallantry." 
After completing undergraduate work at ND, Cahalan started work on his M.A. at the University of Toronto. The following year he returned to St. Mary's as an instructor in philosophy and proceeded acx-oss the Dixie to be­come a teaching fellow. 
Smokey may be still chuckling but Cahalan is thankful to have that uppity Ph.D. tacked after his name. 

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
In an effort to be dynamic and unique, the 
Department has inaugurated a new concentra­
tion in the area of Vocational Development. 
Stress IS placed on career choice patterns, on 
careers in women, and on the psychology of re­
ligious vocations. Prof. WILLIS BARTLETT has 
completed a brochure which states the rationale 
of the program, and describes some of Us 
features. 
Unfortunately, alumni news is slow in getting 
here. We did hear from JANET HIPPENSTEEL 
MERRILL MA '6\, who received her Ed.D. from 
Columbia U. and since then has lectured in edu­
cation at College of Our Lady of the Elms, 
Chicopee, Mass., and Berkshire Christian Col­
lege, Lenox, Moss. 
Please inform us about yourself. Why not sit 
down right now and send o postcard? 
Lawrence M. Deno 
529 Memori'o/ Library 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH 
Information is slowly occumulating about our 
graduate student alumni—and revealing that 
some have been busy indeed since gradua­
tion. We would like to hear from more of 
you about yourselves and your families. To Sum­
mer Session alumni, who are particularly 
elusive, we send this invitation with special 
fervor. 
During the coming year SISTER CORONA SHARP, PhD '62, will spend three months in Europe studying contemporary drama. She has received a Canada Council grant for research in Switzerland for a forthcoming book on the plays of Friedrich Durrenmott, and on additional grant from Huron College. Her work will con­tinue studies undertaken last year under another Huron College grant, studies which led to articles on Friedrich Durrenmott and T. S. Eliot. 
At present Sister Corona is Professor and Head of the Dept. of English at Brescia College, London, Ontario, Canoda. She has also been on the faculty of graduate studies at the U. of Western Ontario, London, since 1965. Besides her regular teaching duties at her own college, she teaches o course in modern literature at Huron College, London. Her special fields of teaching are the drama, the 19th- and 20th­century novel, and American literature, and she has published a book, several parts of books, and a half dozen articles. She is also reader for PMLA and the U. of Toronto Press. 
In March, 1968, Sister Corona was guest lec­turer at the convention of the N.Y, State Speech Assoc, held at Elmira, N.Y. Her topic was "Shakespeare Through Puppets" and she illus­trated her lecture with a demonstration of her own handmade characters from four of the bard's comedies. BERT G. HORNBACK, PhD '64, has A Critical Edition of Middlemarch coming out from Thomas 
Y. Crowell next summer, with introduction, on-
notation, selected criticism, and bibliography. 
He's also doing a Rossetti (D. G.) selection, with 
introduction, for Bloisdell, due out in 1970. 
Dr. Hornback is assist, prof, in the Dept. of 
English ot the U. of Michigon. A specialist in 
19th-century British literature, he has published 
articles on Dickens and Tennyson and edited a 
production script of Thomas Hardy's Scenes from 
the Dynasts. 
Dr. Hornback has the additional distinction of being "Censor" of The Lord Chamberlain's PlayerSf his theater group at the U. of Mich­igan. He has done MacBird, Salome, and Man­fred in the last two years and is now under way with Tom Thumb and the Creation of Eve for the coming spring. He played the lead in 
MacBird and directed Salome and Manfred. 
SISTER LUCY SCHNEIDER, PhD '67, has recent­ly hod articles on American literature published 
or accepted by Kansas Quarterly, Renascence, 
and South Dakota Review. She is feoching at 
Marymount College, Solino, Kan. Her course in 
the modern American novel carries graduate 
credit from Kansas State U., Manhattan, Kan., 
where she is an "adjunct professor" in the Dept. 
of English. 
Next fall, SISTER MARY CONROY, PhD '68, 
formerly Sister James, will teach an under­
graduate course on the Negro in American liter­
ature at Youngstown State U. where she is 
ossist. prof, of English. Sister is currently teach­
ing a graduate seminar in the subject. Her dis­
sertation at Notre Dame was on Claude McKay, 
a Negro poet and novelist, and sister looks 
forward to a trip to Yale next summer to read 
McKay's letters in the James Weldon Johnson 
Collection there. 
We've collected and recollected bits of news 
about alumni who, we hope, will send us more 
information. ROBERT FINNEGAN has just com­
pleted work for the PhD and joins the ranks 
of graduate student alumni. He is a reserve of­
ficer in the U.S. Army and now, alas, must 
return to active duty. SISTER SIMEON FOGAR­
TY, MA '62, is teaching at St. Mary's Junior 
College in Minneapolis, Minn. ERNEST FON­
TANA also joins the ranks of alumni, having 
completed all work for the PhD in January. For 
the post several years he has been assist, prof, 
of English at Xovier U. in Cincinnati. We have 
noticed on article on George Herbert, in last 
year's Studies in English Literature, by SISTER 
SARAH WILLIAM HANLEY, PhD '66. We know 
of at least two other items published by Sr. 
Sarah William on George Herbert several years 
ago. SISTER MARY KATHLEEN HEAVILL, MA '57, 
is teaching at Mount Mercy College in Pitts­
burgh. JOSEPH R. MILLICHAP, MA '62, is In­
structor of English at the U. of Montana, and is 
on the brink of finishing his work for the PhD 
at Notre Dame. SISTER COLEHE TOLER, PhD 
"65, is visiting prof, at the College of Mount 
St. Vincent in Riverdale, N.Y. Her regular posi­
tion is in the Dept. of English at Seton Hill 
College. SISTER EDMUND ANN SEMEL, MA .'63, 
is professor of English at St. Mary's U., Son 
Antonio, Tex. Sister is currently writing a dis­
sertation for the Notre Dame PhD. SISTER 
MARY ROBERTA STALEY, MA '33, is Provincial 
Historian at Notre Dame of Dallas Mother-
house, Irving, Tex. SISTER MARY GRACE 
WORTH, MA '67, is teaching at Ursuline Acad­
emy in Cincinnati, Ohio. She is making plans, 
however, to interrupt her duties in order to take 
up studies for the doctorate. 
BLAISE HETTICH, PhD '57, is in his 13th busy year as teacher and counselor at St. Meinrad Col. in Indiana. He is teaching 13 classes a week, is on the staff of Marriage magazine to which he contributes his regular column, "Talk-Starters," and is pamphlet editor at the Abbey Press. He has been working on the Mass Year for 1969 and has sent to press a booklet entitled Prayer-Starters. In o recent letter to friends. Father Hettich wrote: "I'm glad to be where the action is in the Church .. . I do what I can, day by day, and waste no time worrying. 
My health is surprisingly good .. . God bless you all!" God bless you. Father Hettich, and all of our alumni. 
Edward Vasta English Dept. 
Notre Dome, Ind. 46556 

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY 
DAVID GORMAN, PhD '66, and RAMON ABARCA, PhD '64, will shortly be promoted to Assoc. Prof, at Canisius College. Ramon has a leave of obsence this semester ond is cur­rently in South Bend doing research preparatory to the publication of several articles on mid­18th-century European diplomatic history. WAL­TER GRAY PhD '59, is Choirmon of the Board of Undergraduate Studies and Director of In­ternational Studies at Loyola U. in Chicago. A reference in this column some time ago to Walter as "Director of Freshman History Stud­ies" was in error. Apologies to Walter. 
RICHARD BALFE, PhD '56, JAMES A. WHITE, 
PhD "57, and RICHARD PANTEL, MA '66, col­
lectively comprise the bulk of the History Dept. 
at Loras College in Dubuque. A star-studded 
lineup indeed! 
CHARLES CHAPPIUS, PhD '66, is at Chicago 
State College; EDWARD GIBBONS, PhD '64, is 
chairman of the dept. at Siena College; THOM­
AS FLAHERTY, MA '67. is at St. Mary's College 
in San Antonio, Tex.; ALBERT HAMILTON, PhD 
'67, has transferred his affiliation from Villa 
Madonna to John Carroll in Cleveland; AN­DREW TROUT, PhD '68, is now at Indiana U. 
RICHARD O'MALLEY, MA '59, is at St. Joseph's Col. in Pa.; PATRICK O'DEA is at St. Bonoventure U. in upstate New York and has been for some years book-review editor of Cithara there; JOHN ANDERSON is ot Holy Cross; and ALFRED BANNAN and BERNARD FINNEGAN are continuing graduate study else­where, Bannon at Indiana U. in Bloomington and Finnegan at Fordhom. 
My thanks to DAVID FAHEY, PhD '64, still at Indiana U. in Gary, for much of the information this time. Communications from others ore most welcome. Write me about your accomplishments, plans, reseorches, hopes, dreams, vices. . . . This column need not be a mere list of names, degrees, and places. It could become the aca­demic equivalent of Earl Wilson's column (bar­gain-basement division), but help is needed from you readers. 
Bernard Norling History Dept. Notre Dame, ind. 46556 

LAW SCHOOL 
Three new faculty members began teaching in the Low School in January; a fourth addi­tion will begin in the fall, and a familiar figure will return 
LESLIE G. FOSCHIO, until February on as­sistant district attorney in Erie County, N.Y., was appointed to the faculty as assist, prof, of low. He was admitted to the New York Bar in 1965 and has been a prosecutor, lecturer (ot State University of Buffalo), and law clerk (to Notre Dame's law dean, Judge William B. Lawless), and attorney for the State University of New York. He will be teaching in public law. 
DAVID M. BARRETT, '59, o South Bend at­torney, and son of Prof. Edward F. Borrett, began teaching as a lecturer in law. He teaches the first-year property courses on a part-time basis; he is also St. Joseph County attorney. Mr. Barrett has extensive experience in criminal law; he has been in practice in South Bend for two years. 
WARREN A. DEAHL, '41, '43L, joined the faculty OS a lecturer and teaches a second- and third-year seminar in securities regulation. Mr. Deohl's partners, James F. Thornburg, John Carey, and EDWARD J. GRAY, '52, '58L, teach a third-year elective in advanced tax planning. 
Prof. Jeremy T. Harrison, now teaching at the 
Sister Corona Shai-p 
U. of San Francisco School of Law, will join the faculty in the fall. He has practice experience in California and the District of Columbia and taught law in Africa from 1963 to 1966. He is the author of a casebook, now in its second edition, on the African law of evidence. 
Rev. WILLIAM M. LEWERS, CSC, who taught low at ND from 1965 through 1967, and who has been studying and teaching international low in Chile for the past two years, will rejoin the faculty in the fall. He will teoch courses and seminars in international law. Father Lewers was a Missouri lawyer and a professor at the universities of Kentucky and Illinois be­fore he joined the Holy Cross Fathers. He was active when in the U.S. in the civil-rights move­ment, especially as it relates to segregation in the South and to the rights of migrant workers in the Midwest and in California. 
The second volume of "New York Pattern Jury Instructions," covering civil cases, was pub­lished this spring. Dean Lawless was one of a small panel of judges who drafted the work; Prof. Peter W. Thornton was officrol reporter for the drafting committee. The volumes are a project of the New York State Judicial Confer­ence. Former Chief Judge Charles Desmond, of the New York Court of Appeals, said the proj­ect "represents a tremendous amount of self-sacrifice and work without compensation." 
A seminar in advanced triol practice, directed by Professor John J. Broderick, sponsored in February a day-long advocacy program for law students, faculty and members of the local Bar. The program, which was presented by a team from the American Trial Lawyers Association, was chaired by BENJAMIN C. PISER, '24, of South Bend. 
Tom Shaffer low School 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
in the February, 1969 
NOTRE DAME LAWYER 
Richard K. Berg, "Title VII: A Three-Years' View" (Mr, Berg, who writes on the Civil Rights Act of 1964, is Acting General Counsel, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission] 
Thomas L. Shaffer, '61L, "Will Interviews, Young Family Clients, end the Psychology of Testation" 
A 52-page note, by third-year sfudenf Thomas J. Reed, on land use controls in historic areas; and a second note on arbi­tration clauses under the Norris-Lo-Cvardia Act 
Case comments on the F.C.C. "fairness" doctrine; income taxation of corried in­terest transactions in the oil and gas industry; civil judicial review of selective-service classification; seniority rights in plant-removal cases; and detention of criminal suspects upon reasonable sus­picion 
Book reviews on Rembar, "The End of Ob­scenity" and on Hutchison (ed.), "Africa ond Law" 
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS 
There have been several additions lo the faculty of the Department this year. 
Six graduates of our Academic Year Institute have appointments with us as Instructors. They ere GEORGE M. COCKS, JAMES J. HARTLAGE, JAMES L HODGE, JAMES A. JEFSON, MARTHA 
I. MOEHRING, and WILLIAM SHUTTERS. All six received a Notre Dome M.S. in 1968. With their previous teaching experience and Institute troining, they provide valuable assistance to the Department in its Freshman courses. 
Our Postdoctoral Instructorships are held this yeor by EDWARD A. CONNORS, PhD '68 and STEPHEN J. O'DONNELL, PhD '68. These posi­tions enable a few of our fresh PhDs to obtain additional benefit from contact with the vigorous 
research activities within the Department. 

On May 10, 1967, the College of Science of 
the University received special recognition In its 
efforts to develop education and research from 
the National Science Foundation. As part of the 
Science Development Program which involves 
support from both the Foundation and the Uni­
versity, the Department has made some prom­
ising appointments to the regular faculty and is 
continuing its visiting faculty program. 

Joining the regular faculty are the following 
Assist. Professors: Chang Choi from the U. of 
Michigan whose research interests ore in finite 
group theory; Alan Howard from Stanford U. 
whose research activities are in several com­
plex variables and differential geometry; Kok-
Wee Phan from the Mathemotics Institute of the 
U. of Bonn, also in finite groups; A. Duone Randall from the U. of Colifornia, Berkeley, whose work is in algebraic topology; and Pat­rick J. Ryan from Brown U. whose research is in differential geometry. 
Especially noteworthy ore our two Visiting 
Professors, Alberto Dou, S.J., and Jean A. Dieu­
donne. 

Father Dou comes to us from the U. of Madrid in Spain. He is a member of the Span­ish Academy of Sciences, has been president of ' the Spanish Mothematical Society, and is the author of a book on differential equations. He is an expert on o wide range of subjects in pure and applied mathematics including geometry, numerical analysis, differential equations, theory of elosticity, and mathematical logic. 
Prof. Dieudonne comes to us from the U. of Nice in France where he hos been Dean of Sci­ence. Prof. Dieudonne is one of the outstanding personalities of modern mathematics. He has done research in numerous areas of olgebra, analysis and geometry. He was an original mem­ber of the Bourbaki group of distinguished French mathematicians which has exerted a pro­found influence on the development of mathe­matics. A former member of the Institut des Hautes Etudes in Paris, he has also held pro­fessorships in the U.S., France and Brazil. Prof. Dieudonne visited us before in the fall of 1966. 
George Kolettis Mathematics Dept. Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS Bock ogoin to my principol task of bringing you up to date on the whereabouts and past and present activities of our Physics PhD Alumni. Like the previous column, this one will again be concerned with the "old-timers," vintoge 1950-59. FRANCIS MCCAFFREY '52 (high polymer phys­ics), wife Hope, and eleven children, live at 285 East St., West Bridgewoter, Mass. 02379. After receiving his PhD, Fran was employed as a Physicist at USN Ordnance Test Center, China Lake, Calif. He left there in 1956 to join the focuJty of the Dept. of Physics of Boston Col­lege, Chestnut Hill, Mass. 02167, where he holds the rank of Assoc. Prof. He also serves as a Physicist (part-time) ot the Army Mechanics and Materials Research Center, \i/atertown, 
Mass. 

JACK L. MELCHOR '53 (high polymer physics), wife Norma, and four children, live at 26000 Westwind Way, Los Altos Hills, Calif. 94022. From 1943-46 Jack was a Lt. (jg) in the Navy. (He received port of his service training at Notre Dame—remember the V-8 and V-12 pro­grams?) After completing his service. Jack returned to his former school, Univ. of North Carolina, where he received his B.S. degree in 1948 and his M.S. degree in 1950. He had not forgotten ND, however, and returned here for work on his PhD degree, which he received in 1953. He joined Sylvania (Mountain View, Calif.) in 1953, and in 1956 became President and Treasurer of Melobs, Inc., (his own com­pany), in Palo Alto, Calif. Since 1961, Jack hos been President of Hev/lett-Packord Associ­
ates, an cfBliote of the Hewlett-Packord system. 
PHILIP T. McCORMiCK '54 (theoretical phys­
ics), wife Ruth, and five children, live at 1021 
LaSalle Dr., Sunnyvale, Calif. 94087. Phil re­
ceived his B.S. degree from Notre Dame in 
1948, and stayed on for his PhD degree. During 
the years 1952-54 he "doubled in brass" and 
also served as on Instructor in Physics at DePaul 
U, Chicago, III. In 1954 he accepted a position 
OS Supervisory Physicist at USN Ordnance Test 
Station, China Lake, Calif. In 1958 Phil joined 
the faculty of the Dept. of Physics at the 
Univ. of Santo Clara, Santo Clara, Calif., and 
presently holds the rank of Assoc. Prof, of 
Physics at Sonto Clara. 
FRANK JAMERSON (formerly Francis Jablonski) 
'52, joined the U.S. Naval Research Lob (Wash­
ington, D.C.) in 1951, and from 1954-1957 served 
05 Head of the Neutron Physics Section, Re­
actors Branch, at NRL. He also served (on 
loan?) as Senior Scientist, in Westinghouse 
Electric Corporation's Atomic Power Division in 
1953. He joined General Motors Corporation's 
Nuclear Power Engineering Dept. as a Senior 
Research Physicist in 1957. In 1961 he switched 
to GM's Physical Electronics Group, and was 
appointed Supervisory Research Physicist and 
Head of GM's Physical Electronics Group in 
1963. Frank is morried, has four children, and con be contacted at Research Lobs., General Motors Corp., Warren, Mich 48090. Since he has not yet returned his questionnaire, I am un­able to provide further vital statistics. The Editor says that's oil for this time. 
Robert L. Anthony 
Dept. of Physics 
Noire Dame, Ind, 46556 
DEPT. OF SOCIOLOGY 6 ANTHROPOLOGY 
We are pleased to welcome two new members to the club. The race for the doctorate be­tween JIM NORRIS, PhD '69, and JIM DAVID­SON, PhD '69 ended in a virtual dead heat. Although their degrees will not be formally conferred until June, both recently negotiated thot uttterly crucial final hurdle in obtaining the PhD — completion and acceptance of the dissertation. Dr. Norris, in keeping with a cus­tom which is becoming increasingly institutlon­olized, flew in from Montreal to give a disser­tation-acceptance party on February 15 for the 
faculty and for the stiM-unanointed graduate students. Dr. Davidson, we ore told, has in­structed Purdue to withhold generous amounts from his monthly checks so thot sufficient funds will be availobJe for the lavish party he will throw in June. The Department, to coin a phrose, expects big things from both of them. Norris, with a healthy assist from GERRY DEWEY (PhD '67), has already helped us to recruit one of Loyola's (Montreal) top under­graduate sociology majors. 
Rev. PHILIP HAMILTON, PhD '59, Choirman of the Dept. of Sociology ot Loros College, visited the campus in January to interview od­vanced students approaching entrance into the job market. Regrettably, we were unable to service his immediate staff needs. The Deport­ment's production of 2-3 doctorates per year does not come close to meeting the demand for sociology PhD's. Within a year or so, the increase in enrollment and stafiF thot begon around 1964 should moke itself felt, and the output of doctorotes is expected to be ot least double the present rote. Although it moy seem otherwise to students caught up m the final throes of candidacy examinations and disserta­tions, both the Deportment and the Groduote School strive to hasten attainment of the doc­torate. It scarcely need be added, however, that there is no intention to lessen quality for the soke of number. 
Robert Voso/i 
Sociology Dept. 
Notre Dame, tnd. 46556 

ON RECORD 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Patricia Pierlott to Robert C. Findloy '60 
'64L. Miss Kathleen Lowery to it. Michael Malhis '65 MA '67. Miss Veronica Lynch to U. Michael Guslov Honpeter '67 MA '63. 

MARRIAGE 
Miss Carole Bochnowski to Thomas L. Froser '64, Nov. 28. 

BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Reich '57, a daughter, Dec. 9. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Donie/ Leinenweber '59, a son, Stephen Becket, Feb. 2. Dr. and Mrs. Herbert R. Moef/er '60, a daughter, Regina Louise, Jan. 1. Mr. and Mrs. John W. Crowe '62, a son, John Wesley Jr. Nov. 16. Mr. and Mrs. Don Ounph/ *64, a daughter, Deirdre Annemorie, Nov. 27. Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Mier '65, o daughter. Lisa Nicole, June 5. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Sullivan *66t a son, Christopher Patrick, March 4. 

ADOPTION 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bogg '57, a son Kevin Thomas, Feb. 3. 

SYMPATHY 
Luther M. Swygert '27 on the death of his wife, Mildred. Froncis H. Norton '32 on the death of his fother, Dec. 27. Robert C. Moher '35 on the death of his father. John W. Norton '36 on the death of his fother, Dec. 27. Wil/iom H. Nolan '38 on the death of his mother, Jan. 19. Charles M. Norton '39 on the death of his father, Dec. 27. Thomas P. Ford Sr '40 on the death of his wife, Jon. 9. Donald P. Smith '40 on the death of his wife in January. Tom Carroll "42 on the death of his wife, Trudy, Feb. 11. John J. Garvey '42 on the deoth of his mother, Feb. 4, John H. Nolan '42 on the death of his mother, Jon. 19. Thomas D. Moher '43 on the death of his father. 
J. Kendall Redmond 'SO on the death of his mother, Feb. 2. Robert 5. Clemency '51 on the death of his mother, Dec. 25. Bernard F. ffesfer '53 on the death of his wife, Jan. 9. Philip J. Clarke Jr. '55 on the death of his father Philip J. Clarke '27. John J. Clemency '55 on the death of his mother, Dec. 25. 
Richard D. Crowley Jr. '56 on the death of his mother, Dec. 31. 
William Caul '57 on the deoth of his father, Walter. Michael B. Derrone '59 on the death of his mother, Dec. 1. Anthony (C. Hyder "62 on the death of his mother. Thomas P. Ford Jr. '65 on the death of his mother. Fronk D. Cillis '67 on the death of his father, Fronk D. '42. W;//iam J. Bingle, Jr. "68 on the death of his father in January. Howord M. Ford '68 on the death of his mother. Timothy Ford '69 on the death of his mother. 

DEATHS 

William Ward Duckelt '03, Jan. A retired member of the Ford Archives Div. is survived by his widow Josephine, a son Peter Clayton daughters, Mrs. Lester Bratton and Mrs. William 
S. Burke. 
Col. Ernest K. Sheble '05, Nov. 29. He died suddenly while on a vocation trip to New York. He is survived by his widow of 601 California Avenue, Santa Monica, Calif. 90403. 
William P. Feeley '06, Dec. 17. Choirmon of the Board of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. He is survived by his family at 179 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
Thomas H. Ford "II, Feb. 10. He is survived by his sister Mrs. William H. Mead of 40 East Hudson, Dayton, Ohio. 
Robert E. Vaughan "12, Feb. 17. The former ND football star is survived by his family at Crawford Hotel, Crawfordsville, Ind. 47933. 
Arthur D. Walsh '12, Jan. 29, 1967. The news of his death wos sent recently to the Alumni office by his son James J. of Delwood Road, Chester, N.J. 
Edwin J. Larney, LLB '14, Dec. 21. He is survived by his family ot 400 Douglas Ave., Elgin, III. 60120. 
Ralph J. Lathrop '16. He was a member of the New York's President's Committee. 
DeWald McDonald '16, May. He is survived by his widow at 441 Loring Ave. Los Angeles, Calif. 90224. 
James F. Hon/on *18, Jan. 19. He is sur­vived by his widow at 1551 St. Paul, Denver, Colorado 80206. 
Louis P. Doyle ME '19, October. He is sur­vived by his widow Dorothy, two daughters and Bill Doyle '29, his brother. 
Judge Froncis J. Clahessy LLB '20, Dec. 29. He served as county judge of Woverly NY from 1944 to 1964. His family address is P.O. Box 188, Woverly, NY. 
William M. While '21, Oct. 25, 1967. He is survived by his widow at 1251 Linden St. La Salle, Illinois 61301. 
Fronk H. Murphy '22, Jan. 29. He is sur­vived by his widow, Adeline of 425 Menendez Avenue, Venice, Florida and a daughter Mrs. Robert RedBeld of San Clemente, Calif. 
G. A. Goessling '23 July 12. He is survived by his widow at 22 Ridgetop, St. Louis, Mis­souri 63117. 
Michael A. Schmilt '24 Nov. 28. He is sur­vived by his widow at 2180 Priceton Ave. St. Paul, Minn. SSIOS! 
Austin N . Clarke '26, Oct. \6. He is survived by his widow, Margaret, 2207 Maple Avenue, Evanston, III. 60201. 
John E. Kennelly LLB '25, Jan. 10. He is 
survived by his wife Mary ot 9895 S.W. 74lh 
St. Miomi, Pla. and two sons and a daughter. 
Richard J. Purcell '26 Nov. 16. He is sur­
vived by his widow Mabel at 806 Morris 
Trnpk. 2-D-2, Short Hills, New Jersey 07078. He 
also leaves two ottorney sons, Joseph and 
Eugene and a daughter, Mrs. Robt. Ham. 
John A. Seime '28, July 19. He is survived 
by his widow at 24 Elm St., Milford, Conn. 
06460. 
Patrick S. Greene "29, January. He is sur­vived by his fomily at 368 Vinton Ave., Louis­ville, Kentucky 40206. 
Edmund Armstrong '30 died in Sarasota, Florida. His widow survives him at 2945 Upper Angelo Drive, Sarasota, Florida. 
Thomas J. Kerrigan '30, Dec 16. He has been engoged in low, real estate and insur­ance in Chicogo. His widow, two sisters and a brother survive him. 
Thomas G. Murphy '30. He is survived by his family at 1054 Seward Avenue, Westfield, New Jersey 07090. 
Wo//er J. SchoJond "30, Dec. 3. Died sud­denly leaving his widow Margaret, two daughters, Mrs. John Ashton, Miss Jane Scho­land and a son, Lt. Gerald W . Scholand. 
James D. McQuaid '31, Feb. 8. He is sur­vived by his widow at 316 Church Street, Vincennes, Indiana 47591. 
John W. Oovis '32, Dec. 21. ND Man of the Year and former president of the NO Hor­risburg Club, is survived by his widow Mary and sons Delancey, John, Charles and Michael. 
Robert C. Albert '36 LLB'37, Dec. 18. His death was unexpected, opporently caused from a heart attack. He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Robert C. Albert of 3733 Lighthouse Drive, Racine, Wis. 53402 
Walter E. Bernard '36 and his wife, Feb. 8. The couple were killed in an auto accident. He is the brother of William '35, Edward '37 and Rev. George C , CSC '43. Walter's mother, Mrs. Emil Bernard resides ot 815 South Walnut, Springfield, Illinois 62704. 
William H. Tourney '38, Class of '35 per request Jon. 20. He is survived by his widow at 16 NorthSeld Rood, Glen Cove, New York 11542 and three children. 
Judge Roberto M. Benovides '39, Jan. 5. The judge was active in many civic organizations in San Antonio ond is survived by his widow Beotriz, his mother and three brothers. 
Richard G. Thocn '39, Dec. 10. He is sur­vived by his widow at 389 louvoine Drive, Buffalo, New York and a son Richard. 
Edmund G. Oolton Jr '40, July 22. Hs is survived by his sister. 
Sr. Anna Gertrude lynskey CSJ, Oct. 22. Sister received her A4astcr'i in Educoiion In 1961. 
CLUBS 
Robert W. Haack (left) President of the N.Y. Stock Exchange and R. John Cunningham
'50 Vice-President give tips to ND inemhers of the 
Irish 
MNFORSIAL "shop talk" following mar­ket closing. Sound like the clerks after a long workday at the local shop­ping center? Wrong, it's what hap­pened at the fii'st meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Wall Street. Imagine sitting next to a fellow student for three years at the New York Univer­sity Graduate School of Business and then discovering he is a fellow ND alumnus. Again, it happened at that first meeting. 
Despite the impressive number of prominent financial members of the Wall Street community that also claim ND as alma mater an important ele­ment of "togetherness" had always been noticeably deficient. 
With this "hang together gap" in mind four alumni; John Flanagan '58, William Stoutenburgh '55, Thomas 
Go Btue 
Coleman '56, and Deon Sutton '31 had their first core meeting in '67. When an overflow crowft of 45 arrived for the first genei-al meeting of the ND-Wall Street Association its founders knew they had a good thing going. 
Broad outlines for the group were established. Membership would include ND alumni working in the securities field and living in the New York, New Jersey and Fairfield County, Con­necticut areas. The professional grouping would aim at benefitting both members and University faculty and students involved in financial edu­cation. 
Approximately 150 men have shown their interest in the organization. Others are coming out of the wood­work (or the stock ticker) with each meeting. Many of them are surprised 
Exclmnge. 
Chip 
by certain statistics — like 18 Notre 
Dame alumni holding seats on the ex­
change. 
Interesting speakers have sparked 
the fii«t two meetings of '68-'69. 
Thomas O. Waage, vice-president of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, spoke infoi-mally to the mem­
bers. He recalled the time he compli­
mented Father Hesburgh for spending 
more on a libraiy than on a computer, 
in contrast to other universities. 
The next speaker, Robert W. Haack, 
president of the NY Stock Exchange, 
spoke candidly and answered impor­
tant questions with great frankness. 
Future plans are shaping up and 
John J. Flanagan, Jr., 30 Broad 
Street, New York, N.Y. 10004 invites 
more Golden Domers to join the club. 

UND Night for the 46th Titne 
UNIVERSAL Notre Dame Night -will be celebiated by more than 120 clubs around the world this year as ap­proximately 40 members of the fac­ulty, student body and.administi-ation will travel to the various clubs to discuss "The Notre Dame Student Today." 
1924 was the year it all began. The Four Horsemen were doing such a fine job of putting Notre Dame on the map that John H. Neeson '03, of Philadelphia, then president of the Alumni Association, decided some­thing was needed to broaden the Uni­versity's image. 
An avid spoi-ts fan himself, Neeson's action wasn't an attempt to disparage hte athletic element or the contribution it was making to the University. He believed that the total image of the University needed pi-ojection, in order to tell the full story of a gn."Owing Notre Dame. 
Consequently, UND Night was in­augurated to project the many facets and total scope of the University. Ti-aditionally scheduled for the sec­ond Monday after Easter each year, the event is generally celebrated within a two or three-week span of that date. 
This year UND Night is scheduled for April 14. In Pakistan, Manila, Latin America, Italy and other coun­tries around the globe ND alumni will gather to consider the theme "The ND Student Today." University speakers will explore with their audiences the nature of the young men at Notre Dame today: Who are they? What makes them tick? How is the University changing them? How are they changing the Uni­versity? It is hoped that such dis­cussion will lead to a greater under­standing of the young people for whom Notre Dame exists. 
Probably the single most important informational and public relations program of the Alumni Association and the University, Univex-sal Notre Dame Night is the event of the year for all Alumni Clubs. Watch for an announcement of the event in your local Club area. 
.BERKSHIRE COUNTY MASSACHUSEnS ^^ ^ 

The most recent event held by this club was a 
Communion Supper held the evening of Sun., 
Dec. 29. 
The supper, held at the Lenox House, Lenox, 
Moss., was following attendance at a folic Mass 
at St. Mark's Church, Pittsfield, Mass. 
Msgr. Joseph Johnson, postor of St. Mork's 
Church and new club chaplain, gave a short 
folk at the supper. 
Peler M. Mo/one/ '62, Secretary-Treasurer 
BOSTON 

"Catholic Education, The End or a New Be­ginning" will be the topic of the alumni seminar to be held at Cardinal Cashing Col., Brookline, Mass., Sun., Mar. 9. Richard Wo/wood '60 is chairman of the seminar. Dr. Thomas P. Bergt'n, Dean of Continuing Education, will introduce the program. Guest speakers will be Rev. Ernest Bortell CSC, Chairman of the ND Dept. of Eco­nomics, and Rev. Neil McCIusky, SJ, Dean-Director of the Institute for Studies in Education. 
The annual meeting and sports night will be held Mar. 19 at the Howard Johnson Motor lodge. So. Boston, Mass. Pouf F. Dwyer '51 is chairman of the annual meeting. 
Plans are under way for a UND dinner-dance at the Oval Room, Sheroton-PIozo, Boston, Fri., April 18. 
W. J. Pie/rusialc '58, Secrefory 
BUFFALO 

The weekend of Feb. 8-10 saw the Western New York area play host to the University swim team. While posting victories over the U. of Buffalo and St. Bonaventure U. on this trip the 20-member team was well entertained, thanks to the efforts of Pres. John F. La Duco. Joined by Chaplain Fr. Boyle and Coach Dennis Stork the team lunched at a local bank and joined alumni for a trip to Niagara Falls. 
In the near future the local club will conduct an information night for applicants for the class of 1973. It is hoped that through nights like this we will be able to help incoming freshmen in their big transiiton from high-school life to life at the Golden Dome. 
Robert A. Dra'fem '64, Secretary 

^^ ^ CENTRAL JERSEY ^^ ^ 
The hectic pace of events continues. At this writing, we are looking forward to the defeat of the NYU basketball team at Madison Square Garden Thursday, Feb. 20. Pot Keo/y has once ogain arranged a delicious dinner preceding the ball game, and we look forward to a btg turnout to watch the exciting Irish. 
A few of us die-hards will find our way into more unfriendly territory for the ND-St. John's game which should be a real test. 
President Howard Gillespie is promising a real shindig for Universal ND Night, the next item on our agenda, scheduled for early April. This affair is always much fun. 
David E. Collins, Secrefory 
DEARBORN ^^^^^ 

Our Annual Dinner-Dance at Botsford Inn, Jon. 
25, started off the New Year with a bong. Chairman Gerry Gass and Co-chairman Larry Do/on ore to be commended for their time ond effort. 
Dick King, chairman of our annual "Spirits" raffle, reported thot a profit of over $200 was made and that it would be turned over to the Summa program. Congratulat'ions and thonks, Dickl 
Any ND man in the Detroit Metropolitan area who would like to ioin our club, please contact me at 261-6845. Being active in your community ond doing something to project the name and image of ND ore the primary objectives of our club. 
Tim Devine, Secretary 
3 DECATUR, RL 

Our president, John Owm '58, LIB '61, Iwralded 
a meeting of the minds, and togatlwr thay sat 
out our year's calendar. It appears tiiat another 
good year of ND octnities is in tlw offing. 
The schedule is Univenal ND Night. April 18, 
John tonigon '62, chairman; GoH Outing, June 
11, chairman to be announced; Bus Trip to 
Lafayette, Sept. 27, Don Corey '61, chairman; 
Annual Meeting, Oct. 10, John Ounn, choirman; 
Communion BreoUost, Nov. 30, Ed Kovol 'SO, 
chairman. Patrick Nolao '63 was nomed Special 
Events chairman. 
Steve Grafiker '42, Secretory 
'OENVBt 

Feb. 4 the Club honored one of its more dis­tinguished members, Tom Currigon '41. Tom has recently resigned as Mayor of Denver to take a job with Continentol Airlines iti Los Angeles. Tom was honored by his friends for his services both to the City of Denver and to the Club. Our best wishes go with him. 
Feb. 26 the club sponsored a movie premiere benefit for its scholarship fund. The movie was The Shoes of the Fisherman. Jim Hilgtr '56 was choirmon, the assistant chairmon wos Pete Fischer "64, Mrs. Etn Perenyi was the women's chairman, Mrs. Kotherine Smith, the ticket chairmon, Mrs. Don Klee and Mrs. Bob Sears were reservolion chairmen. The honorary choir-men were Rev. Urban J. Vehr '23, retired arch­bishop of Denver, and Mrs. Elonor Weckaug. We wish to thank oil these people for their efforts. 
Mar. 20 the club will hold its annual meet­ing and elections. Filmed highlights of the 1968 football season will be shown. UND Night will be April 12 with the guest speoker being Jim Cooney. Chairman of this event is Mike Home. 
Dick McMonus '65, Secretory 

^^^^ DES MOINES ^^^ ^ 
The Club elected officers for 1969 at a Sundoy breakfast held at the Hotel Sovery. Following ore the officers for the new term: Joseph Bisignono, President; Wilfred Gill, Vice-President; Joseph Zuendel, Secretory; James Boscn, Trea­surer. 
Joseph C. Zuendel '39, Secretary 
DETRorr 

Detroit alumni and friends wearing green hots occupied 250 seats at the U-D Memorial Build­ing Feb. 8 to cheer the "Fighting Irish" to a 79-72 victory, A victory porty (Molt Murphy, "63, chairman) followed at Vonneli's, near the U­D campus. Seen at the gome supporting ND were olumni of many different classes: 
1968: Jim Knous 
1967: Nick Eddy, George Goeddecke 1966: Bill Foerg, Tom Murphy 1964: John Banks 1963: Kay Bonanna, Terry Desmond, Peter Jason, 
Bob Kratage, Matt Murphy, Tom Riley, Greg 
•Schwartz, Mickey Walker 
1962: Dan O'loughfin, Dennis Sterosky, Sean 
SchaeHner, Bill Slockpoole 
1961: James Bisignono, Kal Hindo, Dennis Mc­
Carthy, Tom Enright 
1960: Don Sconfon, Mike Monohon, Jim Murphy, 
Dick Senecol, Terry Keating 1959: Bill Fury, Bob Weingort, Art Shannon 1958: Lou Bosco, Phil Conway, John Bemord 1957: Bob Bogg, Dan Kelly, Jock Murray, Pete 
Shegena, Mike farrug. Bob toney, Burke 
Cueny, Dick Welsh 1956: Vince Sheerin 1953: Tom Foole 1950: Ed O'Donnelf 1949: John Ponelli 1948: John O'Nielf 1946: Vince Jocobs 1944: John Anhut 1943: frank Ebner, Tom Canhjr 1941: Bob Cronin 
1939: Jim Molschall 
1937: Art Cronin 
1935: Tom Stringer 
1933: Jock Breen, Ernie Gorgoro 
1926: Mai Knaus 
1925: Bd Polhous 
Also, several ND students ottended the gome 
including AIl-Americon Tackle, George Kunz. 
The retreat was held at Monressa Retreat 
House the second weekend of Lent. Tom Moore, 
'58, and Lou fiosco, '57y2, were chairmen of the 
very worthwhile annual weekend. 
The Club's Annual Business Meeting was held 
in early March. The purpose of this meeting 
is to summarize the past year's octlvities and 
nominate men for the Board of Directors. Out­
going president, Don Kelly '57, directed the 
meeting. 
The Club odded on event this year. Gory 
Dillon, '65, and Bill Foerg, '66, were chairmen 
of the St. Patrick Forty at Botsford Inn, March 
15. 
Dick Condit, '56, will be chairman of De­
troit's Universal ND Night ot the Latin Quarter, 
April 8. It is expected that this will be a most 
successful ond well-ottended event, as always. 
Due to the illness of Bishop Nelligan, Chair­
man Mike Hegarty, '57, postponed the Com­
munion-Breakfast. It is hoped that this event 
will take piece in Moy. 
Bob Bogg '57, Secretary 
= ERIE = As the deadline for this column nears, we here in Erie are getting ready for our "Sports Night." At this time it looks like this event will be held at the Koehler Brewery Rathskeller. Among those who will attend are: William Amann, Joe Bar­ber '36, Robert Barber '40, Thomas Barber "24, Leo Brugger '34, Leo Brugger, Jr *61, Don BusecJc '50, James Dwyer '37, Leo Carney, How­ard Essick '41, William Grant '45, Edward Kern '56, Herb Kern '54, Jomes Mohoney *51, John McCormicfc Jr. '53, Michaet McCormick *61, Richard McCormick '55, Tim McCormick '57, Lew Shioleno '49, Jocfc Sitterle '60, Larry Stad­ler '29, Joseph Stadler '53, Fred Strasser, Ron Vomero, Charles Witlmann, John Young '51, Tony Zomfarosfci '52, Jock Palmisano '55, Frank Riley, and Hoot Scu//y. John AlcCormick is chairman for this event ond it looks like it will be a very enjoyable eve­ning. The McCormicks, John '53, Rich '55, and Tim '57, just returned from Europe this past month. They were in Rome long enough to at­tend the ordination of their brother Pot, an­other ND graduate, to the priesthood. After Fr. McCormick finishes his studies in Rome this summer he will be oftached to the Atlanta, Georgia, Diocese. Joe Blake '61, gets to Erie now and then. The lost time he was here he had quite a sur­prise for all of us. The future Mrs. Bloke with with him. An early summer wedding is being planned. We all wish Joe ond the future Mrs. Bloke the best of luck. Jocfc Si(ter/e '60 has been quite busy here in Erie. He has been seen going in and out of homes all over Erie. Jock is in the real-estate business and hos his own group of realtors working for him in the Sitterle Real Estate office. The Lea Bruggers left Erie today for a motor trip of the southwest. It looks like Arizona ond a little golf is on the agenda. Mike McCoy, of ND football fome, was in Erie for the evening several nights ago. Mike was here long enough to say "Hi " to his par­ents and then attend the annual WWYN Radio Sports Banquet. Tony Zomfarosfcf '52 is looking forward to the football season already. Tony is the head coach of Cathedral Prep school here in Erie. tew Shioleno '49, is quite busy lately working for St. George's Church here in Erie in many capocities, along with his Erie Technologicol Products, Inc. he still finds time for ND, and ot 
present is working with John McConnicIc Jr. and Leo Brugger Jr. interviewing applicants for ND in September. 
A^ifce McCormick '61, has been seen quite often lately at the Erie Lions Hockey Matches. He takes off just enough time from work at the Erie Beer Co. to make the hockey matches. 
Frank Ritey hos been very busy trying to catch up on his work ot Paine, Weber, Jackson & Curtis Investment Brokers. It seems Rank also was in Europe to attend the Pat McCoimick ordination. 
Leo J. Brugger, Jr. '61, Secretary 
FAIRHgLD COUNTY 

CONNECTICUT Approximately 50 brave souls ventured out in the weather Dec. 8, to the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Conn., for a family Communion breakfast which consisted of o folk Mass and a discussion by Father Donovan, Guidance Counselor of St. Mary's HS m Greenwich. The ofFoir was successfully well handled by John Falvey '52. Ken Thoren '51 has accepted the chairmanship of the next event of the yeor's calendar which will be the St. Patrick's Day social. The mem­bership is anxiously owoiting the particulars from Ken. 
G. Sarsfiefd Ford '55, Secretary 
^^ ^ HARRISBURG, PA. ' Plans are being mode for our annual ob­servance of UND Night. A Dinner Dance will be held Fri., April 18, at the Penn-Harris Motor Inn, Camp Hill. The Secretary of the Alumni Association, Jim Cooney, will make his initial official visit to our area. The annual business meeting and election of officers will take place Fri., March 14, at the Horrisburg K. of C. Film highlights of the 1968 Season will be on added feoture of this event. Our Club was saddened by the recent death of two of our most dedicated members. Our Club Secretary, Frank D. Gr//is '42, passed away Dec. 30, following heart surgery. John W. Davis, '32, honored as the Club's Man of the Year in 1968, passed owoy Dec. 21. Both men contrib­uted greatly to the success of our Club and the University, and we extend our sympathy to their respective families. All newcomers to the Centrol Pennsylvania area ore encouraged to contact the writer at 4106 Hillsdale Road, Horrisburg, Po. |TeI. No. 545-2426) Joe £//om, "58, President 
^^ ^ KANSAS CITY, MO.. 

AND KANSAS The Club's annual Sport night festivities were held Feb. 7, at the Schlitz Brown Bottle Club. Free Schlitz was the beverage of the night. One hundred seventy-three local alumni and friends turned out for the evening. Tom McKeon '54, club vice-president, chaired the affair which featured ND football highlights from 1946-7-8 and 1966. Bill Walsh '49, an as­sistant coach with the Kansas City Chiefs, and Jim Lynch '67, the Chief's A.F.L. all-star line­backer, led the discussion of the highlights. Other local sport personalities attended and discussed the advances of the local professional sport scene. P.S. They're out of Schlitz! Bernard D. Croig '61, Secretary 
^ ^ McHENRY COUNTY, lU . ^ ^ Club President, Leo J. Powers *25, announces the Club's annual Communion Breakfast will be held Mar. 2 at the new St. Thomas the Apostle Mission Church in Crystal Lake at the 9:00 o'clock Mass. A section of the church will be reserved for ND alumni and their guests. Break­fast will follow on the lower level of the church. Joe Conerty '44 is the only Club member who will be celebrating with the Silver Jubilee Re­
union Class in June. He is particularly anxious to renew acquaintances with members of the original Naval R.O.T.C. group. 
' MOHAWK VALLEY ^^ ^ 
NEW YORK John F. Woeppel of Mohawk, immediate post president of the Club, received the club's **Man-of-the-Year" award Feb. 16. The bronze plaque was presented in ceremonies at a dinner at Twin Ponds Country Club, New York Mills, NY, which inauguroted the University's $52 million nationwide development program in the Utico area. Speokers at the dinner included Rev. Charles 
E. Sheedy, CSC, dean of theological studies and institutes ot ND, Dr. Thomas E. Stewart, osst. to the pres. for planning and analysis at the University, and Bob Rigney, representing the student body. John W . Crowe, Foundation Di­rector, was introduced. 
Kenneth F. Murphy was dinner chairmen and Dr. Robert D, Brennan served as toastmaster. 
James C. Oster is general chairman of the local SUMMA drive assisted by L. Daniel Callan, General Appeals Chairman; Kenneth F. Murphy, Public Relations and Events Chairman; and Ray­mond M. Belden, Frank Chudzinski, Robert P. Fletcher, Vincent T. Fletcher, Dr. DonoW A. Govogon, Anthony J. Giruzzi, James T. GrifRn, Francis A. Martello, Lee J. Oster, Michaet Phil­lips, Dr. Daniel C. Shaughnessy, and John F. Woeppel. 
Bob Fletcher '56, Secretary 
PEORIA, lU . The Club observed Universal ND Communion Sunday Dec. 8 with an evening Mass at Bergon HS. Mass was celebrated by Father James Campbell of the Catholic Social Service. Nine­teen famil ies and friends of ND were rep­resented. Following the Mass, a dinner was held at Kramer's. Alike Dentino was chairman of the event. This year the Club has instituted noon luncheons on the First Friday of every month ot the Ramoda Inn. Attendance has been grow­ing with a high of 18 in December. Ron Patter­son, Coach of the Spalding High basketball team (18-3), was guest speaker at the February meeting. Coming events ore a stag featuring the ND Football Highlights of 1968 and the Annual St. Patrick's Dinner-Dance. Bill Clark and Maury Cicciarelli ate co-chairmen for the stag. Mike Ryan is handling the St. Patrick's affair. 
R. K. Gordon, Secretary-Treasurer 
= PHILADELPHIA ^^^ ^ The Annual Meeting of the Club was held Jan. 21 at the Catholic Phiio Patrion Club. At this meeting the following men were elected to the Board of Governors for a period of two years; Ed Broderick, Joe Httger, George Mitchell, Ray Mullen and Bill Whiteside. After this election the entire Board of Governors met in open session and elected the following men as officers: George Mitchell, president; Tom Sho//ow, vice-president; Bob Mitchell, 2nd vice-president; Joe Hilger, treasurer; Roy Mullen, secretary. At the Club meeting held Feb. 11, we were privileged to hove as our guest James D. Cooney, Alumni Executive Secretary, along with two students — Bob Rigney and Don Wyclife. Jim brought the students to Philadelphia for the purpose of telling the Alumni just how the present-day ND student lives and governs him­self as a member of the University community. They also discussed the religious attitudes of students and the problems of those students who belong to minority groups. It proved to be a very interesting meeting filled with much dis­cussion. Our group was the first Alumni Club in the country to use this format, and we feel it was most successful. Thomas J. Shallow, Vice-President 

iROME: 
Our ND Hospitality Center is at your service 
daily from noon to nine at 82 Largo Brancoccio, 
near rotl-oir terminal. Tel.: 730002. 
In town at the moment ore the very significant 
guests, ex-Alumni President, Dick Rosenthal *54, 
Jerry H'lckey *41 and wives, oil South Benders on 
0 European skiing jaunt with friends signing 
our guest book as alumni of Loyola, Chicago 
and Purdue. Other ND arrivals are brother of 
Rev. John Wilson CSC, Rev. Jerome Lawyer 
CSC, John Nesfer *49, David Fleming 70 at­
tending a semester at Loyola's Rome campus. 
As this issue will be mailed March 17, tt will be fresh news to know thol we celebrated St. Patrick's Day in o big way with a dinner-dance in the grand ballroom of the Palazzo Bran­caccio (above our ND Romon digs) where Roman Holiday and other famed movies hove been filmed. The occasion was sponsored by "The Fighting Irish" (ND Club), "The Flying Irish" (Aer Lingus) end "The Fettuccine Irish" (Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant). And we danced all night to on authentic 50-piece McNamora's Brass Band, oil Italians! 
Vince McA/oon, '34, Secrefory 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY ^^ ^ INDIANA 
Activities of the Club were varied and interest­ing. Dec. 5, the Club honored the *68 Football Team in the Main Arena of the Athletic and Convocation Center before a crowd of 1450, the largest in our history. The crowd wos delighted with Toostmoster Joe Gargiola, Coach Ara Parseghian, the team members and other celebrities. The highlight of the evening wos on inspiring tolk by Capt. George Kunz. Chair­man of the dinner was Bill Kr//ifea, ably assisted by ticket chairman Normon Cook. 
The Club also helped with the Frank Leohy Testimonial Dinner Jan. 30. The event was choirmoned by Bob McBnde and the Michigan City Notre Dome Club members with local ND Club members, BtU Forobough, George Weber and Fronk Sullivan assisting. 
Feb. 21, the Club held its annuol meeting and election of Directors. The event was held in conjunction with dinner and the Ice Copades. New Directors ore: Norm Cook, Bob 
Williams, Frank Johnson, John Go/drick. 
Officers for the ensuing year will be: Jerome Kearns, pres.; Bill KilUlea, vice-pres.; Don 
O'Brien, treos.; and Steve Seall, sec. 
Bill KilUlea, Secretary 
^ ^ SAN DIEGO, CAUF. ^ ^ 
The Club witnessed one of its best turnouts 
ever for a dinner-dance when some 70 persons 
offended the Feb. 1 evening of dining and 
dancing. Thanks to Chuck and Susan Vandegrift 
'56 who were responsible for planning and 
hosting this outstanding event. 
The month of February also sow the publica­tion of the second issue of "The Flame," the Son Diego Club's bi-monthly newsletter. A well done to President Clem O'Neil '56 for his journalistic efforts. 
Finally, Feb. 20, a luncheon-business meeting was held at the River Valley Restaurant in Son Diego and proposed changes in the Club's by­laws were voted upon. The changes involved, among others, o proposal to increose the size of the Club's board of directors. 
Classen Cramm '63L, Corresponding Secretary 
SAN JOSE: 
The officers for the years 1969-70 are: Pres., 
Maury De Wald, '62; Vice Pres., Carl Edmund-son, '59; Trees., Tormey Ward, '60; Sec, Daniel 
Bencze, '64. The following were at recent luncheons at Marchetti's in Santa Clara held on the second 
Monday of each month: Jim Carrity, Bob Saxe, Maury De Wald, Tormey Ward, Ted Sobero/ski, 
Carl Edmundson, Tom Mahoney, Norm Matteoni, Dick Kelch, Doug Zilliox, and Walt Gill. 
Congratulations to Tom Moloney, '58 who will 
be ordained into the Society of Jesus June 14. 
Our annual Communion breakfast held in 
December was chaired by Waft Gill, '56. The 
club's choploin. Father Arthur Schoenfeldt, of­
ficiated at the Mass and Father Dillon of the 
St. Patrick Fathers spoke on the history of the 
turmoil in Biofra ond the problem confronting 
the mission's work in that torn country. 
The wives* club held o very successful progres­
sive dinner, Dec. 7 highlighted by a wine tasting 
tour at the Mirossou Vineyard. Mrs. Robert Figel 
'49 and Mrs. Francis Duggan *48 were co-
hostesses. 
Coming events—UND night April 11. An ex­
cellent program centered about three University 
representatives is planned. Ted Soberalski '54 
is the chairman. 
Don Bencze '64, Secretary 

^ ^ S. CENTRAL WISCONSIN ^ ^ 
The Club is in the process of reorganizing its membership to become o more active influence in local and alumni functions. A committee wos oppointed to study the needs of our Club and to get the boll rolling. The committee is headed by Jim O'DonnefJ '63, ond its members ore Fr. 
Jim Higgins '54, Robert Borchers '58, John Diehl '62, Bernard Mtxtacki "50, Maurice Leahy *39, Tom Hinkes '51, and ten Dorschel '25. 
John Diehl *62 represented our Club at the 
Alumni Senate meeting in Milwaukee. 
A membership program is planned for the 
spring. Organize your demonstration and protest 
plans eorly. We hope this will be a nonviolent 
ossembly. So Dr. H. Corey of Lancaster; Dr. 
Tom Farrell, Proirie du Chien; Tom '30 and Nick 
*63 Frost, Wotertown; John Fraz '48, Beloit; Dr. 
Tom Henney '43, Portage; and Al *54 and 
Michael '57 Gschv/ind, Reedsburg, organize your 
forces for o morch on Madison. 
Tom Hinkes 'Si, President 

^ ^ TERRE HAUTE, IND. 
At the regular monthly meeting of the Club, 
President John Christian announced plons for 
the onnuol mid-winter football dinner for mem­
bers, wives and guests. The highlight film of 
the 1968 footboU season is the feature attraction. 
The date of the dinner depends on when the 
Club con secure the film. Myron Busby Jr. is in 
charge of the affair and will announce the dote. 
Plans were discussed for universal ND night 
and the Club's presentation of the Schultean 
award to the outstonding senior boy at Schulte 
Catholic HS. 
John Huges, member of the Terre Haute Club, 
has been transferred to Lansing, Michigon, as 
monoger of the Pittsburgh Plate Gloss store in 
that area. 
Jim Bayer, Publicity Chairmen 
TULSA 

The annual Tulsa Stag Party was held Feb. 17. This year, o "dividend" was declared and free beer and o steak dinner were enjoyed by the members. After the dinner, o business meeting wos held around the fireside with o keg of beer, with Forris Sofia, club president, presiding. 
Farris proposed an agendo for 1969 which was approved by the general membership. 
A report on Summa was given by Bobby Siegfried, state chairman for Summo, in which he praised the members for their contributions. He noted that Tulso hod passed its goal of $320,000 ond was one of the first cities to attain its goal. 
Farrh Saffa led o hotly contested discussion regarding raising the amount of dues. Jock Charon stated that, when he was treasurer, instead of raising the dues, he sent out yearly statements twice a year! (And he suggested we might try this again!!) The general member­ship decided that they would rather hove the 
dues raised than receive two statements each year. 
The continuation of the Scholarship Fund was 
discussed and approved by the general mem­
bership. The Fund has provided for some twenty 
years a portiol scholarship to a locol boy. This 
is done on a need bosis. 
The members then squashed Farris Soffa's 
proposal to form a stock club. 
New members of the Tulsa club include 
Charles Ooherty '55 who moved from Chicago 
to take a position with Vk^arren-Americon Oil 
Co.; Mike Healy '64 who wos transferred from 
Houston by Union Carbide; and Charles Bums 
*65 who recently returned to Bartlesville with his 
wife. Pom (when are you going to come see us, 
Charlie?). 
Roy H. Sie^ried, II, Secretary 
= VIRGINIA " 

The Club Communion Breokfost was held Feb. 2 and was a big succes$.'Rev. Robert Devine co­coptoin of the 1958 Irish basketboll team wos guest speaker and Moss celebront. Reminiscences of his 1958 teammates—two of whom ore also priests—and the changing role of the individual in todoy's complex world were the keynotes of his talk. Fr. Devine is currently odmissions officer at Allentown Col. in Pa. and o member of the Oblote order of St. Francis de Sales. Fr. Devine's oppearonce in Richmond wos his first and provided o needed spark to club activities. His presence was made possible by 
Bill McMurtrie, 
Our next Club function will be Universal ND Night sometime in April. 
Frank Carpin, Stcrelary 

^^ WASHINGTON, D.C. ^^ 
The speaker at the Club's monthly lunch Jon. 14 was Fr. Ramon Oinordo *44. Fr. Dinordo is with the odministrotive office of the Archdiocese of Washington. 
Feb. 11, our luncheon speaker was firion Getti'ngs, who is the executive director of the Republicon task force on crime. Because the topic is so brood, the session was thrown open to questions right away. 
Brian O'Neil '62 is our luncheon chairman and has done an excellent job in obtaining speakers. Some of our regular attendees ore: Bill Hughes 
'64, Bill Scanlin '62, John Daniels, Pat Conway, 
Jim Krauser '62, and Dick Galiher *64. Upcoming activities include o seminar on Cotholic education. Club elections, and our St. Patrick's Day Party. These will be reported in the next issue. 
NOTRE DAME SEEKS SCIENCE WRITER 
The University is seeking a science-engineering writer to fill the post of Assistant Director of Public In­formation effective July 1st. The applicant should be a college grad­uate, preferably a Notre Dame man, probably thirty or under, with both expertise and experience in science and technical writing for the media, business and industry, the government or higher educa­tion. Send a letter of application and resume to Mr. James E. Murphy, Director of Public Infor­mation, Notre Dame, Indian. 
they will be asked for their identity cards. Those who produce these will be suspended from this community as not understanding what thb community is. Those who do not have or will not produce identity cards will be assumed not to be members of die communis and will be charged with trespassing and disturbing the peace on private property and treated accordingly by die law. The judgment regarding the impeding of nor­mal University operations or the violation of the rights of other members of die community will be made by the Dean of Students. Recourse for certification of diis fact for students so accused is to the tripartite Dis­ciplinary Board established by the Student Life CoundL Faculty members have recourse to die procedures out­lined in the Faculty Manual. Judgment of die matter will be delivered within five days following die fact, for justice deferred is justice denied to all concerned. 
After notification of suspension, or trespass in the case of non-community members, if diere is not then widiin five minutes a movement to cease and desist, students will be notified of expulsion from this com­munity and die law will deal with them as non-students. 
Lest there be any possible misunderstanding, it should be noted that law enforcement in this proce­dure is not directed at students. They receive academic sanctions in die second instance of recalcitrance and, only after diree clear opportunities to remain in student status, if diey still insist on resisting die will of die community, are they then expelled and become non-students to be treated as other non-students, or out­siders. 
There seems to be a current myth that university members are not responsible to the law, and diat some­how die law is die enemy, particularly those whom so­ciety has constituted to uphold and enforce the law. I would like to insist here that all of us are responsible to the duly constituted laws of this University commu­nity and to all of the laws of the land. There is no other guarantee of civilization versus the jungle or mob rule, here or ekewfaere. 
If someone invades your home, do you dialogue with him or call die law? Without the law, the uni­versity is a sitting duck for any small group from out­side or inside that wishes to destroy it, to incapacitate it, to terrorize it at whim. The argument goes — or has gone — invoke the law and you lose the university community. My only response is that without die law you may well lose the university — and beyond diat — die larger society that supports it and that is most deeply wounded when law is no longer respected, bringing an end of everyone's most cherished rights. 
I have studied at some length die new politics of confrontation. The rhythm is simple: 
1) find a cause, any cause, silly or not; 
2) in the name of the cause, get a few determined people to abuse the rights and privileges of die com­munity so as to force a confrontation at any cost of boorishness or incivility; 
3) once this has occurred, justified .or not, orderly or no^ yell police brutality — if it does not happen, 
provoke it by foul language, physical abuse, whatever, 
and dien count on a larger measure of sympathy from 
the up-to-now apathetic or passive members of the 
community. Then call for amnesty, the head of the 
president on a platter, the complete submission to any 
and all demands. One beleaguered president has said 
diat these people want to be martyrs thrown to tooth­
less lions. He added, "Who wants to dialogue when 
diey are going for the jugular vein?" 
So it has gone, and it is generally well orchestrated. Again, my only question: must it be so? Must univer­sities be subjected, willy-nilly, to such intimidation and victimization %^atever their good will in die matter? Somewhere a stand must be made. 
I only ask that «^en die stand is made necessary by those ^ o would destroy the community and all its basic yearning for great and calm educational oppor­tunity, let them catty die blame and die penalty. No one wants die fotces of law on this or any odier cam­pus, but if some necessitate it, as a last and dismal alternative to anardiy and mob tyranny, let them shoulder die blame instead of receiving die sympathy of a community diey would hold at bay. The only alterna­tive I can ima^e is turning die majority of die com­munity loose on diem, and dien you have two mobs. I know of no one who would opt for this alternative — always luridng in the wings. We can have a diousand resolutions as to ^^lat kind of a society we want, but when lawlessness is afoo^ and all authority is flouted, faculty, administtation, and student, then we invoke the normal societal forces of law or we allow the uni­versity to die beneath out hapless and hopeless gaze. I have no intention of ptesiding over such a spectacle: too many people have given too much of diemselves and their lives to this University to let this happen here. Widiout being melodramatic, if diis conviction makes diis my last will and testament to Notre Dame, so be it. 
May I now say in all sincerity that I never want to see any student expelled from diis community because, in many ways, this is always an educative failure. Even so, I must likewise be committed to die survival of the 

We oattg imsist upott the rights of ali ... mmd the climate of eicititg mmd tmtiomalitff 
University community as one of man's best hopes in these troubled times. I know of no other way of in­suring both ends dian to say of every member of this community, faculty and students, diat we are all ready and prepared and anxious to respond to every intellec­tual and moral concern in the world today, in every way proper to the University. At the same time, we cannot allow a small minority to impose their will on the majority \dio have spoken regarding the Univer­sity's style of life; we cannot allow a few to substitute force of any kind for petsuasion to accept their per­sonal idea of what is ri^t or proper. We only insist 
on the rights of all, minority and majority, the climate 
of civility and rationality, and a preponderant moral 
abhorrence of violence or inhuman forms of persuasion 
that violate our style of life and the nature of the Uni­
versity. It is, unfortunately, possible to cut oneself 
off from this community, even though the vast majority 
of our members would regret seeing it happen. How­
ever, should this occur, the community as a whole has 
indicated that it will vote and stand for the maintenance 
of this community's deepest values, since this is the 
price we all pay for the survival of the University 
community in the face of anyone and everyone who 
would destroy or denature it today, for whatever pur­
poses. 
May I now confess that since last November I have 
been bombarded mightily by the hawks and the doves 
— almost equally. I have resisted both and continue to recognize die right to protest — through every legiti­mate channel — and to resist as well those who would unthinkingly trifle with the survival of the University as one of the few open societies left to mankind today. There is no divine assurance that the University will survive as we have known and cherished it — but we do commit ourselves to make the effort and count on this community, in this place, to uphold the efforts that you have inspired by your clear expression of commu­nity concern. Thanks to all who have declared them­selves, even to those who have slightly disagreed, but are substantially concerned as well. 
As long as die great majority of this community is concerned and involved in maintaining what it believes deeply to be its identity and commitment, no force within it, however determined or organized, can really destroy it. If any community as a whole does not be­lieve this, or is not committed to it, it does not deserve to survive and it probably will not. I hope we will. To this, I commit myself with the presumption that the great majority of you are with me in this concern and commitment. 
I truly believe that we are about to witness a revul­sion on the part of legislatures, state and national, benefactors, parents, alumni, and die general public for much that is happening in higher education today. If I read the signs of the times correctly, this may well lead to a suppression of the liberty and autonomy that are die lifeblood of a imiversity community. It may well lead to a rebirth of fascism, tmless we ourselves are ready to take a stand for what is right for us. His­tory is not consoling in thb regard. We rule ourselves or odiers rule us, in a way that destroys the university as we have known and loved it. 
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame, 
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C. President 
ALVIUNM 
SPEAK 

Useful Tools and a E^ng Way to Go 
by Leonard H. Skoglund Aiumni Association President 

W ATHEH Hesburgh's letter of Febru­ary 17 to the Notre Dame faculty and students is reprinted in this issue of the ALUMNUS. I am sure that all of us are proud of the leadership of Notre Dame in establishing a clear­cut statement of our University's policies and programs for implement­ing policy. The widespread publicity and favorable response attest to the need for clarity, firmness, and leader­ship in this area. 
As always, with leadership also goes great responsibility. Father Hes­burgh's letter clearly points out the need for order, for open-line com­munications, and rational procedures to develop programs to provide for a better society. To quote, "The uni­versity cannot cure all onr ills today, but it can make a valiant beginning by bringing all its intellectual and moral powers to bear upon them: all the idealism and generosity of its young people, all the wisdom and intelligence of its oldsters, all the expertise and competence of those who are in their middle years. But it must do all this as a university does, within its proper style and capabil­ity." 
Here the alumni can and should be a most effective means of carrying the University's message and ideals into the whole community. We must make sure that our alumni activities are closely allied to the University's overall programs so that we are in a sense an extension of the ideals and activities of the University. The median-age alumnus is growing younger each year—over a third of our total alumni will be graduates of 
the decade of the 1960's. We must 
make sure that our alumni structure 
encourages these young people to 
participate actively in alumni activ­
ities. 
Our alumni programs are leading in the direction of more alumni in­volvement and understanding of the present-day University community and its needs and aspirations. The seminars developed by the Center for Continuing Education such as "The Population Problem," "Has Change Run Away With the Church?" and "Catholic Education: The End or a New Beginning" have been sponsored by many of our clubs. These seminars plus the increasing number of faculty participating in local club programs are bringing faculty and alumni closer together. 
Alumni publications have done an excellent job of keeping us infoimed and stimulating interest. The cui-­rent issue of Iiisight — "The City" —^points up the possibilities and capabilities of the University in tack­ling one of the major problems of our society. The wide variety of talents and approaches to a problem available within the University family is pre­sented quite effectively. 
The Alumni Senate provides op­portunity for exchange of ideas and closer ties of local clubs to University activity. During the next ten years approximately 1500 Notre Dame alumni will serve in the Alumni Senate. Interest in and knowledge of University acti%'ities will increase as contact and communication improve. Contacts between alumni and students both on Campus and in local club areas should increase. Successful new club progi-ams and activities will spread through communications ex­changed in the Senate. 
We have the organizational tools required. We now have to continue developing progi-ams to meet the re­sponsibilities of Notre Dame men in today's society. 
Keep Track of the Paeh 
by James D. Cooney Alumni Secretary 

SOON , Alumni will open their mail boxes and find another questionnaire, and a letter from your's truly. Be­fore the circular file is sought in this survey-happy era we urge yon to peruse the message. It represents Notre Dame's first (and monumental) attempt to produce a national Alumni directory. The Rockwell F. Clancy Company, of Chicago, Illinois has been conti-acted to handle the job. Their credits include distinctive directories for institutions such as Illinois, Northwestern, Purdue, Wisconsin, De-Paul and Hai-vard. 
The directoiy, to be produced in early 1970 will be an 8% X 11 hard­bound compilation of all Alumni . . . names, class years and majors, bus­iness and home addresses, phone numbers and business positions. Local Alumni Club directories have proven to be invaluable tools not only for local Alumni Clubs, but on an in­dividual basis, allowing for much greater interraction among AlumnL Our national directoiy will be com­piled on a geogi-aphical basis, en­abling users to pinpoint long-lost classmates and other Alumni friends who have I'elocated in this mobile age. The directory will be made available to Alumni only. 
In early April the Clancy Company in cooperation with this oflSce will disseminate the first mailing in con­nection with the directory. Compiling data on 43,000 Alumni of the coun­try's most national university is a mammoth undertaking. N.D. Alnmni have traditionally met such challenges however. We're sure this project will be no exception. Your cooperation is anxiously sought. 
ALWntMNM ASK 
STAFF? 
We are not staff members. We are faculty members with graduate de­grees. Mrs. Gleason, for example, is a contributor to one of the most recent books published by the Notre Dame Press. Dr. Sesplaukis has also published recently. 
We are glad you find the mop lady photogenic. We do not know if you would find us photogenic or not—but we would like to meet you if you would like to meet us. It is just that in this last issue of the Notre Dame ALUMNTJS on workers behind the scenes you should have included us 
out.  
THE  CATALOGERS  
Notre  Dame  Library  
EDITOR'S  NOTE:  In the last  issue  

we referred to the library personnel as staff members. 
WHAT NEXT? 
It began by inviting speakers who advocate anarchy, and/or the over­throw of our way of life. Then came the lie-in. Next was the Black Pan­ther march on TV. The latest is pornography on campus. I'm waiting to be surprised next month. 
I assume all this has g^one on with­out any type of discipline. I expect Allen Ginsburg will re­ceive the Laetare Medal this year. 
M. O. Htiot 'S3 
96i S. Evergreen Kankakee, III. 60901 
SENIOR FELLOW 
In reading your last issue I was impressed by your article on Senator Eugene McCarthy's receipt of the Senior Fellow award. However, one interesting detail was left out. The Senator's Indiana campaign was managed by a Notre Dame faculty member—^Dr. James Bogle of the Gov­ernment Department. Just as Mc­Carthy himself was a source of in­spiration to many young members of 
•ita 

the Notre Dame community, so too was this young professor who self­lessly devoted his energies to reform­ing America's political processes. 
Joel Connelly '69 
DOW. CIA 
Damn Dow and the CIA, the law­and-order people can't have it all their own way. With our vital national needs deferred for the insanity of technological murder and destruction, a shockingly small minority of the student body is moved to express desperation. In the face of this the alumni president blathers about "those who have the authority to maintain an atmosphere of good man­ners on campus." 
The etiquette books don't offer ad­vice on the spraying of napalm, or participation in a colonel's coup. But the recruiting activities of the experts in these areas don't add much to the University's quest for truth either. Granting even the symbolic import­ance of the two organizations, wouldn't it be wiser to discretely steer interested recruits to an off-campus liaison, preferably in Chicago (where Mayor Daley's authority in the matter of manners is unques­tioned). 
Joseph G. Kneuer '58 11 Forman Street Fair Haven, New Jersey 07701 
ECUMENISM 
On page 169 of the National Cath­olic Almanac, "The indispensable reference work for complete and ac­curate information on every aspect of Catholic life," (unless ecumenism has overtaken it), my memory with re­spect to the authority of encyclicals was refreshed by the following ex­tracts from the encyclical Humani Generis (Pope Kus XII) of August 12. 1950: 
."Nor must it be thought tliat what is expounded in encyclical letters does not itself demand con­sent, on the pretext that in writing such letters the popes do not ex­ercise the supreme power of their teaching authority . . . if the supreme pontiffs in their official documents purposely pass judgment on a matter up to that time under dispute, it is obvious that the mat­ter, according to the mind and will of the same pontiffs, cannot be longer considered a question open to discussion by theologians." 
This interpretation of authority may not be good enough for the "ND Theologians Who Opine" in the ex­cellent February ALUMNUS, but it's good enough for this would-be Chris­tian as one who was sixty-one years old before subscribing, 16 yeai-s ago, to the credo of Roman Catholicism. 
I'm sure that no influence at that time would have induced my con­version had I believed that Father John O'Brien, whose Faith of Mil­lions had contributed to my en­lightenment and commitment, ever would be able to rebuke one i>ope and bind another without scandalizing me. I refer, of course, to Father O'Brien's speak-out in the Reader's Digest in criticism of Pope Paul's encylical Humanae Vitae, specifically, to this excerpt: "Since the decision is bound to be reversed by his successor, it would be far more honoi-able, proper' and just for the Pope just to rescind it himself." 
If the time ever comes that I cease to rate our supernatural hookup through Rome above the unisonous pontifications of religious and lay theologians and Doctors of the Humanities, not to mention punkie priests who seem to have forgotten or repudiated their uniquely super­natural power to ti-ansmute bread and wine into the real body and blood of Christ, that will be the time for me to cut out. 
,D. C. Grant '21 Memorial Library Notre Dame, Indiana 48556 

VoL47 No. 2 IbxA 190 
James D. Cooaer Encimvc SccnnBr ALDiaa AsaadionM 
John P. Thoria '19 Esnoi Tom SuBnu "eS HAHMUKO EBRSK Meg Z«ren AssuTiiHT. Emat Bm MitcheO '71 Mike HcCaoIer '69 John McDennott '70 EomauL AssisTAins 
M. Brace Baiba '49 Canv FHOTOGSArafli 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OmCKilS 
tOdaad A. Kosentlal 'M HoMoaiunr Vusamsi Leonanl H. Skoghind '3S 
Busnmr Edwaid G. Cantwdl "24 Vwc-nusioEnT Edwud B. niziatridi Jr "M Vid-hismm John J. Reidr "27 Vics-nisnairr James D. Cooner '39 ExEcimvK ScciziMnr 
DIRECTORS TO IS70 
Edwaid G. CantweU '24 (Pmuc RiUTiaiis Aim DcvxuwMiMT) 700 Binns BhnL, Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edward B. Fitipaliidk Jr '54 (STCECHT AF-T\na) 5 The M^les, Rodya Estates, NY 11576 
John J. Reidr 'Z7 (ACMMMic AVTAISS) 1I8S0 Edgewater Dr., Lakewood, Ohio 44107 Leonaid H. Sknglnnd '38 (ATHUcnc, SUIATE RziATiOMs) 426 Dover Ave., LaGnnge Ruk. n . 60525 
DIRECTORS TO 1S71 
W. Kane '3S, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle. Wash. 98124 Walter M. I.ai«{oid '30, 1315 Otxgo St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42, 1113 Soi ^ Kiver Kd., Houston, Texas 77002 
Ftands J. WTilson '28, 6105 Howe St., Kttsbuigh, Ri. 15219 
DIRECTORS TO t»72 
Robert A. Eikins '47, Box 546, Buhl. U . John T. Masnnan '56, 3917 Broadwxjr, Kansas QtT. Mo. Frank L. McGinn '52. 900 BnikGng, hapaao Beach, Fhu Robert L. BIcGoldrick '56. 15 Dracr Laae. West Hartford, Conn. Leonard H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4lli St., tndge­port, Va. 
1968 Notre Dame Aixnana, UinvcnitT of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reprodnctioa in whole or in part without written permis­sion is piohilNtcd. 
The Notre Dame ALniuros is pabEshcd eight times a year hf the University at Notre Dame. Second.chus postage paid at Notre Dame, IN 46556. 






