The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
October 29 Commencement 

1.
 The Class ol 1944 at the Baccalaureate Mass, Sac­red Heart Church. 

2.
 Procession from the Main Building to the Mass. 

3.
 V-12 John Hickey receives the Byron V. Kanaley Prize. 

4.
 Hon. Harry F. HeUy,'17. de­livers the Commencement Address. 

5.
 Rev. John J. Cavanaugh. C.S.C., reads the Centenary Letter from the Pope. 

6.
 Bishop O'Connor oi Supe­rior delivers the Baccalau­reate Sermon. 

7.
 V-12 John F. Q-Hora re­ceives the J. Sinnott Meyers Burse in journalism. 

8.
 Another view ol the Mass procession. Navy and fac­ulty leading. 

9.
 Leo T. Crowley, foreign economic administrator, re­ceives his T.T.T) 



Vol. 22 DECEMBER. 1943 No. 2 

AUi^nuU (lelUf4J0ui RiJieUn 
-BY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH. C.S.C.: 
The editor of this column submitted 

one ai-ticle which Jim Armstrong and 
Bill Dooley thought more appropriate 
at another time. 
I respect their 
judgment, and I 
guess Our Lady 
does too because 
Our Lady imme­
diately presented 
a new, probably 
better, article 
written b y o n e 
of her Army boys 
in a land thou­
Father Lyndi sands of mile s 
from home but 

still warm with the glorious Spirit of 
Notre Dame. It all happened this way: 
The justifiably proud father (a prom­inent physician and surgeon) of this Notre Dame boy came to visit me down here in Philadelphia, bringing two arti­cles — one being the December Reader's Digest containing a well done argument by. a Catholic mother against "Planned Parenthood"; the other "being a letter which his boy, a fairly recent N. D. graduate, had written to his brother and sister-in-law on the birth of their first baby. 
The N. D. grad, known well to this editor, was a daily Communicant at Notre Dame; he expressed one time a liking for—and he practices—that story: "God first, others second, I am third" (published here some months ago). In the Army he has turned down a chance for a commission believing he can do more for his associates by stajfring in their ranks with them: he intends to devote his future life as a layman, work­ing for and with boys. 
He's entitled to wear an N. D. mono­gram. He can't wear i t in the Army, of course, but he shows it daily in his life because it's engraved on his heart, a bet­ter place; and with it all he has a sense of thimior. He wrote a letter to the un­born son a month or two before the baby^ birth, telling him why, when he grew up he should go not to the college oi his- daddy or his mother, but to the college of his uncle — Notre Dame, Our Lady's college but a man's college nev­ertheless. 
Now that you've got a Jittle of his background I ^ve you his letter, a let­ter of which any priest would be proud to be the author, a letter written by a 
N. D. boy who takes time off from his soldiering duties thousands of miles from home to say this to a father and mother on the priceless gift of -a child: 
Dear Slargie and Joe. 
At long last the much awaited moment has coma and has already gone bringing with it a Riorious addition to our family. How I wish that I could see your little son and share in the per­fect happiness that he has given to you. How wonderfully fortunate you are that AJmighty God has honored you with a son born to His Own Image and Likeness. I join with you in the g^rateful appreciation to Our Lord for your son's 
successful arrival. 
The long anxious months of cautious prepara­tion and patient waiting are now a thing of the l)ast. You have now dedicated your lives to the task of educating your son in the traditions of a true Catholic American — those same traditions which are being so courageously defended and preserved for him today on our many battlefields. The trust that Almighty God has placed in you is the greatest trust that can be placed in the hands of a young couple. Your own flesh and blood, your son whose life is an intricate part of your own, has been bom and shall grow and live according to the manner in which you ac­cept your heavenly responsibility. Whether your child will live to be a credit to you and to the people who arc interested depends solely ujion whether or not you, and the rest of us, will prove worthy of having such a pnceless gift in our midst. 
In the future, your path shall bo very trying and tiresome so much so that oftentimes all will seem to be of no avail but when that moment arrives, you shall have renewed encouragement through your little tot who depends upon you for his security. You shall come through whatever crises you may encounter because you now have someone of your very own to strengthen '•-the bonds that you cemented last year. Your lives have now been repledged and rcdedicated to the welfare of your son. All that does not immediate­ly ha\-e his best interests at heart is of secondary nature. He is a God-given guarantee that yout­happiness shall never be permanently interrupte<! and that your future with him shall hold un. qualified happiness. 
You have reached, through the Grace of God, happiness hitherto unknown and unappreciated. Your great desires of a living personification of your own attributes have been fulfilled. Your prayers, your faith, loyalty and devotion to Our Lord and His Blessed Afother have been rich ly rewarded and you have merited the honor, that is now yours. Your present happiness and your honorable position in society is a very grec t credit and the source of much joy to the rest ot the family. All of us are pleased in you and as happy as -yve can possibly be in your great joys and our prayers are pledged to you and your son for continued bliss together. 
There has been mudi controversy as to the wisdom of bringing a child into the world at this particular time but I believe that a child is fortunate to be born during these troubled times because he shall be an everlasting symbol of the many treasures of free men for which so great a number of our countr:>'men — and fathers too — have suffered unrevealed hardships and given their lives. Those things for which we are fighting are wrapped up in the unit of your son's body and soul. It seems impossible that the cher­ished values of our religion, our country and family can be included in such a fragile bundle, 
but they are instilled into your son and he shall, when he comes of age when he can understand and appreciate his priceless inheritance, be for­ever grateful to His God and parents and his country for what he has received. 
It is not now a question of can he become worthy of us, rather it is a challenge to us to become worthy of him — your son who has been given to you by God and who is next to God Himself. God bless the three of you and guide you into the life of treasured happinesses which you shall enjoy from the moment of his birth to eternity. 
At this momentous occasion God's blessing. 
(Sgned) Paul 

We can't improve on that — so we'll just add that Jim and Bill were prob­ably right about the first article sub­mitted and we think they got their hunch from Our Lady, right above the Alumni Office on the dome. 
She's still running things, thank God, at Notre Dame and we think she wants us to add her blessings and greetings to her boys all over the world — and to as­sure us all that she is watching wher­ever we are and asking each of us to remember her and to be worthy of her, and, above all, of that Child she gave to all of us 1,900 years ago. 
On this momentous occasion, — re­calling another Birth, — God's blessing on all of you wherever you are! 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939, at the Postofnce. Notre Dame, Indiana, tmder the act of Ausnist 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
Jaznes E. Armstrong. '25, Editor; WilUazn R. Dooler, '26. Mcmoging Editor 
VOL. 22 DECEMBER, 1943 NO. 2 
100th Commencement, Last for Duration 
Reading of Pope's Letters is Highlisht of Oct. 29 Ceremonies; Honorary Degrees Awarded to Commencenient Speakers and to Leo Crowley and Admiral Nimitz; Scannell Receives Faculty Prize. 
Notre Dame's 100th Commencement on Friday, Oct. 29, closed with muffled drums the Centenary Year of the Uni­versity and was the last formal com­mencement exercise for the duration. With all the limitations of war, however, there was an implicit majesty in the exercises which impressed the small but vitally concerned group attending. 
Highlight of the ceremonies was the reading of the unique and magnificent letter of His Holiness, Pius XII, to the University on the occasion of its Centen­ary, which the ALUMNUS is privileged to reproduce in this issue. It is in itself a most stimulating document for all alum­ni from the first Pope in history to share with Notre Dame alumni the holding of a degree from the University—Litt.D. honoris causa, 1936, in special convoca­tion. 
Scarcely less significant from the alumni standpoint was the addition of another class of graduates, including many boys already in service, and in­cluding many of the degrees earned in the summer session by the priests, broth­ers and nuns who carry Notre Dame in­to the parishes and schoolrooms of most of Catholic America. 
Another fitting alumni highlight on this historic occasion was the presence as commencement speaker of Hon. Har­ry F. Kelly, '17, governor of Michigan and president last year of the Alumni Association. 
Bishop William O'Connor of Superior, Wis., was an able and gracious speaker at the Baccalaureate Mass, and Leo T. Crowley, foreign economic administrator, made a distinguished figure among the group receiving honorary LL.Ds. 
A most happy announcement was that mander of the United States Pacific Fleet. The degree will be conferred upon Admiral Nimitz when conditions permit him to visit the University campus again. His connection with Notre Dame through the Naval E.O.T.C. has been a close and most happy one. 
Admiral Nimitz wrote to Father O'Donnell: "I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your very fine letter of Oct. 7, 1943, in which you advise me that the University of Notre Dame, through its academic council, wishes to honor me with the degree of Doctor of Laws. This is indeed an honor which is of the very highest order, and I am most appre­ciative. Needless to say, I accept the honor with great pleasure and in all 
humility." 
With the return of a class small in number—Washing^ton Hall was once more the scene of a conferring of de­grees (only a very few had to stand), and Sacred Heart Church held the Bac­calaureate Mass. 
The Lay Faculty Prize of ?500 award­ed annually by the AInmni Association was given to John A. Scannell, Ed.D., head of the Department of Physical Ed­ucation. Dr. Scannell has headed the co­ordination of the strenuous Navy and civilian programs under the war pro­
(Continued on Page 35) 

of the award of an. honorary doctorate Wcohington Hall is One* Again tlw SCMM as &• War-B«dac«d to Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, com­Class oi 1944 BscwiTss Dagraas 
Pope Pius XII Honors Notre Dame 
His Holiness sent the following message to the University on the occasion of its Centenary; the letter was read at the 100th Commencement. The Pontiff, as Cardi­nal Pacelli, received an honorary Litt. D. on the Notre Dame campus, October 25, 1936. 
To OUT Beloved Sons 
J. Hugh O'Donnell President, and the 


Directors, Faculty, Alumni and Students of Notre Dame Uruversity 
TTTE ARE unwilling that the Centenary of Notre 
' " Dame University should pass without Our having some part, even from afar off, in that happy commemoration. We recall with especial pleasure at this time the bonds of esteem and affection that link Us to your great institution and We cordially rejoice with you as One Who has personally moved among you and received the University's devoted homage. 
Our sojourn on the beautiful campus of Notre Dame, brief though it was of necessity, amply served to demonstrate to Us, with a clarity that surpassed all verbal description, the progress that has been made during the past century. The quiet beauty, the simple grandeur, the spiritual tranquillity of the Uni­versity and its surroundings all bespoke a spirit of sacrifice and loving devotion to the cause of Catholic education on the part of the venerated founders and their esteemed successors. We were impressed first of all, perhaps, by the very size of the University, with its campus of some seventeen hundred acres, its forty-five modem buildings and its student body of more than three thousand two hundred young men drawn from the forty eight States and the American territories, as well as from several foreign countries. These are indeed indications of an extraordinary physical growth, made necessary by the scientific and 
spiritual expansion of the University. In fact, We like to think of them rather as an external expression of the "Spirit of Notre Dame", that indefinable, yet very real and wholesome spiritual atmosphere which hovers over your campiis and which is spread to the comers of the earth by your alumni, whose training has prepared them to serve as edifying examples of the virility and real value of truly Christian educa­tion. It is a spirit which gives meaning to the life and direction to the education of thousands of yoimg men, a spirit which imbues the students of Notre Dame with a happy, piuposeful concept of life, of man's dependence on his Creator and of his active membership in the Mystical Body of Christ. We gladly avail Ourselves of this occasion to renew Our commendation of that "Spirit of Notre Dame" and pray that it may enjoy an ever more universal and fruitful expansion. 
It must have been a similar spirit of devotion to duty and of self-sacrificing collaboration that inspired the venerated Edward Sorin and his devoted and energetic associates. Brothers Marie, Gatian, Patrick, William, Basil, Peter and Francis, as they began their labors in the cause of Catholic education on the beautiful shores of St. Mary's Lake on that memor­able day in November 1842. Poor in material assets, but rich in strength and confidence bom of Divine Faith, these brave men had accepted from Celestine de la Hailandiere, Bishop of Vincennes, his generous offer of the site at Ste. Marie des Lacs, with a promise that they would establish there a college and a novitiate. The fact that in little more than one year a chapel, mission house and college building had been erected and the charter of the "University of Notre Dame du Lac" obtained from the State of Indiana, 
bears eloquent testimony to the intelligent and de­voted work of those founders of the University. 
The early history of the University, however, was not without its periods of trial and tribulation, and Father Sorin's courageous group, together with the beloved Sisters of the Holy Cross, who were even then lending such noble and selfless assistance, were often faced with problems that demanded stout hearts and an abiding faith in Divine Providence. First among these was the disastrous epidemic of cholera and malarial fever to which one-third of the faculty succumbed. The tragic effects of this deadly blow were still being felt when some years later, in 1879, a devastating fire destroyed most of the buildings which had been erected on the campus during the first thirty-five years of toil and sacrifice. Undaunted, Father Sorin surveyed the smoldering ruins and, gathering his Religious about him, declared: "I am not discouraged. Even if it were all gone, I would not lose hope. We will begin at once. Our Blessed Mother to Whom we have given everything will not 
Cardinal Pacelli. now Pope Pius XIL praying in Sacred Heart Church 
desert us!" Was this not perhaps the first public enunciation of the true "Spirit of Notre Dame", the spirit of quiet and determined confidence in Almighty God and in His Blessed Mother, the spirit that is so beautifully symbolized in the statue of Our Lady which today dominates the campus as a sign of her protection and a reminder of the power of her heavenly intercession? 
The zealous men who have been charged with the direction of the University throughout its long and glorious history have eminently merited the inter­national renown that has crowned their efforts, for they have established a University that is wortiiy of the name—and an institution of higher learning in which the training of the student is not limited to the cultivation of the intellect alone. They based the educational program of the University on the long and valuable experience of the Church, which teaches that the training of youth must not be confined with­in those narrow limits but, in providing for the de­velopment of the entire man, must prepare the student to play his part, intelligently and honestly, in this earthly prelude to that fuller life promised by Our Divine Master. That this program has met with success is demonstrated by the outstanding results which have been achieved and by the fact that Notre Dame alumni, as they take their place in the various walks of life, continue to do honor to their three loves—God, Country and Notre Dame. 

It must, indeed, be a source of profound satisfac­tion to the beloved Religious of the Congregation of Holy Cross to know that the spiritual training afforded the students at tiie University bears ample fruit as those young men go forth to spread in the outside world, by their example and wholesome enthusiasm, their devotion to the Blessed Sacrament and to Mary Immaculate. There is a great measure of recompensing comfort to be derived from the knowledge that in so many instances those men, although beset 'with worldly cares and often sur­rounded by a materialistic indifference to spiritual values, continue the praiseworthy practices of thdr student days—^that of frequent or daily Communion and of regular visits to the Blessed Sacrament, the generous rallying to the aid of a friend in need of comfort, financial help or personal assistance, and the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
habit of prayerfully seeking the enlightenment and direction of Almighty God and His Blessed Mother in all life's trials and problems. While extending Our cordial congratulations to the Religious of Holy Cross and to their associates on the Faculty of Notre Dame University who have so successfully instilled in the hearts of their students the love of these fundamental Christian practices, We would add a word of special praise for the Daily Religious Bulletin, which has proved so effective an instrument in the furtherance of this apostolate on and off the campus. Nor would we have this occasion pass without some mention of the physical education system of the University. Based primarily on the principle of "a sound mind in a soimd body" and confined always to its proper place in the curriculum, to the exclusion of the prevalent over-emphasis on physical culture, it had done much, through the exemplary conduct and competitive integrity of the University's repre­sentatives, to dispel from the minds of American youth any notion that fidelity to one's religious practices is inconsonant with the best in American luanhood. 
It is also very noteworthy that their University preparation does not leave the sons of Notre Dame wanting in loyal patriotism. The annals of American history record the willing service and sacrifice rendered at all times by the priests, brothers and students of the University and today the students and alumni have engraved in their hearts the glorious tradition of Notre Dame—a truly Catholic tradition of enthusiastic and patriotic devotion and service to their country. 
If We have given particular attention and especial commendation to the spiritual and moral aspects of the educational system at your great University, We have not intended thereby to minimize or pass over its magnificent intellectual training and achievements, but rather have desired to lay emphasis on the im­portance of those basic elements in Christian educa­tion which serve so admirably to sustain and fortify the intellectual superstructure. We have seen with Our own eyes the facilities provided for the intellect­tual advancement of the students in the six distinct branches of the University, and the international renown gained by Notre Dame professors and alumni gives ample proof of the thoroughness of their scien­tific and practical preparation. The honor roll of the University's scholars is long and impressive and We gladly record here Our paternal appreciation of their inestimable contribution to human knowledge and to the advancement of scientific research. Their names are immemorably inscribed in the Golden Book of Notre Dame, to serve as symbols of splendid achievement in all fields of scientific endeavor and of the proud record of the great body of your alumni, who, on leaving the hallowed halls of Notre Dame, unostentatiously but effectively render very note­worthy service to God and country. 
It is Our sincere and confident prayer on this joyous occasion that She whose name your University so proudly bears may continue to guide the destinies of the Institution to ever greater achievements for God, Country and Notre Dame, and that her benevo­lent intercession may obtain for the University and for her beloved children there a bounteous measure of heavenly blessing. 
As an earnest of that celestial favor and in testi­mony of Our paternal affection, We impart to you from Our Heart Our special Apostolic Benediction. 
Given at St. Peter's in Rome, the second day of April, nineteen hundred and forty three, the fifth year of Our Pontificate. 
Pius PP XII 


O'Shaughnessy and Vol! are Trustees 
LEaURE SERIES BEGUN 
Two outstanding Catholic laymen—I. 

A. O'Shaughnessy, prominent St. Paul, Minn., philanthropist, president of the Globe Oil Company, and Bernard J. Voll, '17, South Bend business and civic leader and former president of the Alumni As­sociation—^were added to Notre Dame's board of lay trustees, Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, president of the University, announced on Nov. 13. The announce­ment followed a semi-annual meeting of the board on Nov. 12. Established in 1920, the board of lay trustees adminis­ters the endowment funds of the Uni­versity. Its full membership numbers 24, half of whom are alumni. 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy 

Mr. O'Shaughnessy, who in December, 1942, made a donation of $100,000 to the University for the establishment of the O'Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation in the College of Arts and Letters, has had a long standing recognition from many sources, both civic and religious, and he is especially well-known for his work in Catholic circles. He is a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre, and also a Papal Cham­berlain of Cape and Sword. During the Eucharistic Congress held at St. Paul in 1940 he acted as Chamberlain to Dennis Cardinal Dougherty, Papal Delegate. 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy, who was born at Stillwater, Minn., is a graduate of St. Thomas College. He has been active in the oil business for many years, and is currently serving on the Petroleum Industry War Council. Mr. and Mrs. O'Shaughnessy have Ave children, one of whom, Donald, was-a student in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre 
B. J. VoU 

Dame until he received a lieutenant's 
commission in the Army in 1942. 
The Chicago Journal of Commerce, in speaking of Mr. O'Shaughnessy in the issue of July 23, 1943, says: "I. A. O'Shaughnessy has been known as a rugged individualist, a man who never has hesitated to go the limit in standing for his principles. His acquaintances often have called him a fighting Irish­man—his close friends a fighting Amer­ican, a man of many accomplishments and interests in business, civic, philan­thropic and religious fields, which his material success has permitted him to expand and serve generously." 
Mr. Voll, who received a bachelor of philosophy degree from Notre Dame in 1917 and a bachelor of laws degree from the Harvard law school in 1922, is cur­rently president and general manager of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Cor­poration in South Bend. 
In addition to his vocation, Mr. Voll is a director of the First Bank and Trust Company in South Bend and a director of the Chicago, South Shore and South Bend Railroad Co. He is a former pres­ident of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
While a student at Notre Dame, Mr. Voll was an active member of the var­sity debating team, a member of the University orchestra and a member of the first Glee Club in the history of the University. He was the recipient of the Breen Medal for Oratory in 1916. 
Mr. and Mrs. Voll have three children, Mary Theresa and Georgina, both of whom are attending St. Mary's, and William, who is a V-12 student at Notre Dame. 
Alfred Holmes White, professor emer­itus of chemical engineering of the Uni­versity of Michigan, launched a signifi­cant new series of lectures at Notre Dame on Oct. 15. 
Th e series 
is known as the 
Martin McCue 
lecture series, and 
is made possible 
by the generosity 
of C. A. Breitung, 
Dallas, Texas, an 
alumnus of the 
University of 
Michigan and a 
ProJ. While long time person­

al friend of the president of Notre Dame, Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
Professor White spoke in the Engi­neering Building auditorium on "The Past 50 Years in Engineering—and the Ne-xt?" 
Professor White has taught for 50 years, most of that period at Michigan, where he retired as chairman of the de­partment of chemical and metallurgical engineering. He was in World War I as a lieutenant colonel and head of the ni­trate division of. the Ordnance Depart­ment. In 1941-42, Professor White was president of the Society for the Promo­tion of Engineering Education. He had previously been president (1929-31) of the American Institute of Chemical En­gineers, and is a member of many pro­fessional and honorary societies and fra­ternities. He has written several books and more than 100 articles in various technical journals, dealing mainly with illuminating gas, Portland cement, and nitrogen processes. 
Martin McCue, for whom the lecture series is named, was similarly an out­standing professor for a long span in Notre Dame history. When he died in October of 1932—he was then dean emeritus of the College of Engineering —he had completed more than 50 years at Notre Dame, where he was graduated with the Class of 1879. The Religious Bulletin said of Professor McCue then " He was a thorough Christian schol­ar. Although he had few equals in his field of applied mathematics, he was not merely a mathematician. His culture was Catholic in the fullest sense. His mind was remarkably keen, his taste covered wide ranges of thought, and his 
reading covered, it seemed, every worth while interest. . . . We can say in the broad human sense that Martin McCue 

•was a saint. . . ." 
When Professor White opened the Martin McCue series, those in attend­ance had the rare privilege of hearing a man who has devoted more than a half century of sacrificing service to Amer­ican education commemorating another man who similarly devoted more than a half century of service to American edu­cation. From men like these has come the rapid breadth and depth of higher education in America. From men who studied under them, like Mr. Breitung, has come, too, the generosity that has aided in the perpetuation of their work. 
yVo/te 2><UHe Rooki 
The Dark Continent. By Richard Sul­livan. Doubleday, Doran and Company, New York. $2.00. 
It is given to few men to break all the chains of habit and begin life over, with new eyes for the world around them. By one of those acci­dents that seem more natural than routine events, however, Francis Eafferty falls into a shal­low excavation, bumps his head, loses his memory of his former conventional self 
Prot Bichaid SulUyon -^ ^ conventional world, and then gradually becomes a much more real sort of person in a much more real sort of world. Such is the broad pattern of Richard Sullivan's new novel. The Dark Continent, recently published by Doubleday, Doran in New York. Many readers, remembering Mr. Sullivan's first novel. Summer After Summer, as well as his numerous short stories, one of which was included among the O'Henry Memorial Awards and an­other in the Best Short Stories of 1943, will eagerly welcome this new novel by an associate professor of English at Notre Dame 
But most readers of the earlier novel will be surprised by the new story. Whereas Summer After Summer was a quiet, restrained picture of typical Amer­ican family life. The Dark Continent is full of rapid movement and action. In a closely woven series of comic but sig­nificant incidents, the story is carried forward with sustained vitality. Remark­able economy and control characterize the writing. There is no slack, no fum­bling. It is a swiftly moving story, told with decisive effect. 
But it is more than a well constructed story. It is excellent entertainment. The comic situations in which Rafferty finds himself are very amusing. The humor arises, however, primarily from the 
characters, rather than from the inci­dents. The comic situations are only the clear mirror of human nature, of the real people who move across the pages of the novel. And these people are very real. There are Edwina and her mother, stolid and formidable as the fate from which Rafferty escapes. There is Warka­witz, the unofficial, eager, kindly spokes­man of all the real people in Rafferty's new world. There are Pop the bartender; and the policemen, Obie and Bill; and Engelbert, who insists on telling the rambling, ludicrous story of the football player who got kicked on the head; and the cantankerous homespun philosopher who holds forth in the hamburger joint. And there are Dotty's family—her fath­er, asleep on the davenport in his gray socks, her brother, her sister Susan, and the children—all of them appearing in a scene of abounding vitality that serves admirably to give Dotty's personality a definite identity and background. And there is, above all. Dotty James herself, sane, balanced, and generous, who final­ly leads Rafferty to a complete realiza­tion of his new life in his new world. All these people are drawn with swift, sure insight, and with genial humor. They give the story a rich human reality, and help to make it at once entertaining and 
meaningful. 
But the meaning is implicit in the story. It is not laid on arbitrarily or ar­tificially. It grows vrith the story, and is part of its vitality. Below the surface of incident and action, the reader is .i.ware of a fresh meaning in people and things, shining as naturally as sunlight on the face of the real world. Long be­fore he can define it explicitly, the read­er is fully aware of the meaning and knows it is true. Only afterward, as with all experience, can he state the meaning in plain terms. But in the end the old truth that we are forever forgetting, and forever needing to learn all over again, is there, as solid and unmistakable as nature itself: we achieve our full iden­tity as people only by seeking it in something bigger than ourselves. Francis Rafferty, the central figure in the novel. 
could have received no greater blessing than the bump on his head that closed his private comfortable past in complete oblivion, and awakened him to what Shakespeare called this "brave new world, that has such people in it." 
—(Rev.) Leo L. Ward, C.S.C. 

John F. Nims, assistant professor of English at the University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the 30th annual Guar­antors prize for a group of six poems, "In Our Time" and "Six Poems," appear­ing in issues of Poetry magazine during th e last year , according to announcement in the November issue of the mag­
rTolt John Fa Nims azine. These prize winning poems and select­ed others will appear in a new book, "Five Young American Poets," which will be published in December. Other noted poets who are previous winners of the award include Vachel Lindsay, Robert Frost, Edna St. Vincent Millay and the English poets, W. H. Auden and Stephen Spender. Prof Nims won the Harriet Monroe lyric prize in 1942. 
FEW BUT IMPORTANT PRIZES ARE AWARDED 

Because of the accelerated program, the many prizes awarded at commence­ments of the past have been divided, and only the following were awarded on Oct. 29: 
The Byron V. Kanaley award for the senior monogram athlete who is ad­judged the most exemplary as a student and as a leader of men—to John P. Hickey, South Bend, a V-12 student, monogram winner in baseball. Hickey, with an average of 95.8, is the son of Thomas Hickey, contractor and long time loyal alumnus, and the brother of four other Notre Dame men in a family which is taking its place beside the Millers, Bergmans, O'Tooles in the growing his­tory of Notre Dame families. 
The Col. William J. Hoynes award for the highest average in the College of Law—to William S. Spangler of Britt, la. 
The Meehan Medal in English—to John S. Tuckey, Elkhart, Ind. 
The J. Sinnott Meyers burse for ex­cellence in the Department of Joumal­ismr-to Seaman John F. O'Hara, West­mont, N. J. 
The Emil Jacques gold medal for fine art—to William J. Schickel, Ithaca, N.Y. 


Gov. H. F. Kelly, 17, Addresses Graduates 
Describes Strong Local Governments as Nation's Best Bulwark Against Socialism and Autocracy; Says Country Must Profit from Lessons of War. 
Asserting that the battle to preserve democracy will not necessarily end with victory in this war. Governor Harry F. Kelly, '17-, of Lansing, Mich., on Oct. 29 gave the Commencement address in Washington Hall. 
Governor Kelly described dynamic and progressive local governments as the strongest bulwark against socialism and autocracy. 
"The struggle to preserve American 
democracy will not be won or lost in 
Washington," he said. "The issue is one 
that will be decided in the 48 states, in 
our hundreds of incorporated cities, in 
our thousands of separate counties. 
Local self-government is the bed-rock 
foundation of democracy. Like any per­
manent structure, democracy is builded 
from the bottom. Improve the efBciency 
of government in the community in which 
you live and you are taking the first 
step in the preservation of our American 
system. Make local government dynamic 
and progressive and you set up a solid 
bulwark against socialism and autocracy. 
Government must not be allowed to stand 
still, any more than the other sciences 
and the arts, any more than business 
and industry. It is only when local 
self-government proves derelict that 
federal centralization waxes fat. 
"There are many who believe in some form of the isms in this country; who urge that our form of government be changed. They falsely label their phil­osophy as liberalism and contend that the capitalist system as it has existed in this country for more than a century must be abandoned. To hear them talk, one would think that everything we have ever done in America was wrong, even though in doing everything wrong, we created the greatest nation known to the world. They scoff at the idea of freedom of the individual, the encouragement of private initiative, and refuse to recog­nize the fact that the individual who is priviledged to charter his own course in life is the happiest individual. They endeavor to contend that our civilization as we have known it is not only out­moded by the development of our present mechanical age, but contend further that the present war has destroyed our civili­
zation that existed. 
"It is true the war has brought about great changes in the economic life of all ­the nations of the world. It is true that there has been a great change that has been brought about through the develop­ment of the mechanical age through which we are passing—an age which has changed with such rapidity that it has been aptly said that men's minds are several centuries behind their tools. 
"But no civilization that is worthy of being called a civilization has been de­stroyed by war. The fundamental prin­ciples upon which this nation was created and has grown and prospered are as sound today as they were in the past. We must still cling to our declara­tion of independence as a statement of national faith based upon a recognition of God the Creator. 
"Those who believe in God and teach His principles have incurred the enmity of those who teach the isms. The ism group know that without belief in God the American principles of government would fail. They know that the teach­ings of the various Christian faiths carry to the people the teachings of the principle of true democracy, dignifying 
man. The ism philosophy would degrade man to soulless pawn. Again I repeat that the bulwark against the isms is to provide a government that is sane but dynamic and progressive. Freedom cannot be considered as preventing government activities that are necessary to protect individuals against those ravages of life beyond their control. The care for our aged; the aid given to dependent mothers and their children; the providing for our mentally sick and handicapped; and worthy social welfare in all fields of activity including the field of anployment, should be and must be, encouraged and developed. This can be accomplished without denying to the individual his rights as an individual, and without making man the servant of government. 
"America owes a great debt to the men who wrote the Constitution of the United States. There is a grave need for men of their calibre in government today. For the most part, they were highly educated, thoroughly informed students of i>olitical economy and of government. How far-sighted they were, 
(Continued on Page 23) 

At the Oct. 29 Commencement Fcrther ODeaaell prasaated heamaxj ILDi'a to Q«B to right) GoTemor Kelly, Commancemeat Speoken Biahop O'Coimor. Baccalanraal* Preacher and Leo T. Crowler. foreiga •coaonic odminiatralor. Adaural Chwter W. Nimitz. aI«o awarded on honorory doctofote. will fanaoDy leceire it iHiea h» ia obi* to come to the campiu. 

The Battle for Belief 
(Tlie ALUMNUS has frequently ex­pressed the belief tliat it shoiild contrib­ute to a continuing intellectiial stimulus of alumni. The follotving aHicle by Clarence E. "Pat" Manion, popular alumnus-dean of the College of Law, is thought-provoking in a subject of universal importance to Notre Dame men. In this, and subsequent articles from faculty or alumiii, we do not ask that you think WITH THE AUTHOR. We merely hope that it siimidates thought. 
—EDITORS.) 
On a train the other day I had the great good luck to sit for t\vo hours with a famous young bomber pilot. His talk was full of enthusiasm for his crew but on the subject of his own job he was extremely grave and more than modestly reserved. Finally he confessed that He was sorry to be in the "bomber business," as he called it, saying that he always wanted to be a lighter pilot with a ship all to himself. "In a fighter plane," he said, "the pilot pays for his own mistakes; in a bomber the whole crew has to foot the bill. The sense of responsibility is terrific. You soon get to the point where it would be a great relief to risk only your own neck, off somewhere all by yourself." 
This observation merely illustrates what the war is doing to accelerate the maturity of young America. It is true, of course, that the point of strictly self-preser\'ation is always blimted when pressed against complete responsibility for the life or death of other people, but I hardly expected to hear it said by a slip of a boy scarcely old enough to vote. 
This "terrific" sense of responsibility is forever taking the joy out of life. Eight now, it is, or should be, taking it out of Notre Dame men; out of Catho­lics; out of all deeply religious and pa­triotic people throughout America, for these men and these people are now charged with the entire responsibility for the life or death of American liber­ty. It is too late simply to risk "only our own neck" off somewhere alone. We are at the controls and the singularly Chris­tian civilization — sometimes miscalled "The American way of life" is riding with us and with nobody else. 
BY CLARENCE E. MANION, J. D. Dean of the College of Law 

Half a century ago few people in America would have doubted, and none would have denied, the inseparable con­nection between God and the Govern­ment of the United States. At Gettys­burg, Lincoln summed up the then critical situation by recalling that the American nation was "dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal" and ended with a prayer that "under God" it might have a new birth of freedom. Thus, in 1863, in a speech that thrilled the country for the follow­ing fifty years, the thoroughly religious political philosophy of the American Declaration of Independence was brought down to date and made into the predi­cate of Lincoln's fight to save the gov­ernment that the Declaration had brought into existence. In 1776 when that philosophy was officially expressed, it had a general popular acceptance in America which it had already enjoyed for many years. Long after he wrote the Declaration of Independence Jef­ferson explained that his purpose in its composition had been "to place before mankind the common sense of the sub­ject in terms so plain and firm as to command their assent and to justify ourselves in the independent stand we were compelled to take. Neither aiming at originality of principle or sentiment nor yet copied from any previous writ­ing it was intended to be an expression of the American Mind." (1) 
The "American Mind" from 1776 to, through, and long past Lincoln's time, accepted God, inalienable God-g^ven rights and the equality of men in God's sight as "self-evident" truths. In this same rugged and unsophisticated Amer­ican Mind our government was merely man's agent for the protection of God's gifts. It accepted liberty of the individ­ual pei'son as the indispensable imple­mentation of God's creative purpose geared to the rewards and punishments of a future life beyond the grave. To the American Mind, that Jefferson knew and expressed human freedom was a sine qua non of life on earth precisely and only because it was the purchase price of eternal salvation. There were atheists and agnostics then as now, but they did not formulate our political philoso­phy. Neither were they allowed to in­fluence its development in our jiolitical 
institutions. Those institutions were rooted in religion and watered by the religious faith of every generation from Jefferson to Lincoln. The pioneers of American political principle " were so clear and unequivocal upon the subject of God's place in their government and upon the relationship of liberty and reli­gion that some of the very first Ameri­can state constitutions carried provi­sions like this: 
The qualifications of electors shall be (after stating others) every person 
WHO ACKNOWLEDGES THE BEING OF A 
GOD and believes in a future state of reivards and punishm,ents. (2) 
The framers of this provision shared the then general opinion that to a per­son not making such an acknowledgment and not entertaining such belief, human liberty failed to make sense — as in­deed it does not. On this subject the American Mind supported the brilliant explanations of James Wilson. Wilson was one of only six men who signed both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. He was appointed by President Washington as one of the first Associate Justices of the United States Supreme Court. It may be assumed therefore, that he knew the American Mind thor­oughly and was qualified to speak it. With reference to the now popular the­ory that God and the moral law should be divorced from the civil governmental order. Justice Wilson wrote: 
"// this be a just view of things then the consequence undeniable and un­avoidable, is tliat under civil govern­ment the rights of individuals to their private property, to their personal lib­erty, to their health, to their reputation and to their life, floio from a human es­tablishment, and can be traced to no higher source. The connection betioeen 7nan and his natural rights is inter­cepted by the instittition of civil soci­ety. If this vieio be a just viexo of things, then under civil society man is not only made FOR, 5itt made BY Hie government: he is nothing but witat the society frames: he can claim, nothing but tvhat the society provides. His natural state 
(Continued on Page 17) 

n 


The Baccalaureate Sermon 
By MOST REV. WILLIAM P. O'CONNOR, D.D., LL.D...'43 
The University of Notre Dame today raises its corporate soul to a good God in prayerful thanksgiving for the bless­ings and benefactions of His Divine Providence during the past century. In the familiar words of the Preface of the Mass: "It is indeed worthy and just, right and salutary, that we give thanks always and everywhere to Thee, O Holy Lord, Almighty Father, Eternal God, through Christ, Our Lord." As we offer this sublime act of thanksgiving this morning, we shall remember the saintly founder, the long army of devoted priests and Brothers of Holy Cross and the many generous benefactors who through the years have labored and sacrificed to build up this great Catholic University of the Mid-West. 
With a tear in her eye and a prayer on her lips, Notre Dame, your Alma Mater, bids you God-speed as you move onward to take your places in a world at war. She has been a kind and tender and loving mother to you during the years you have spent in her home. She has nourished your bodies and souls and she has reared you in the finest tradi­tions of Catholic education and Catholic life. She sends you forth confident and hopeful that you will be loyal men of Notre Dame, good citizens of your country, and faithful and worthy sons of Holy Mother Church. 
After six long years of a cruel and destructive war in which he has seen his country ravaged and pillaged and burned, and thousands of its brave de­fenders put to death, a young Chinese professor, facing the remnants of his students in a crude makeshift univer­sity in the interior of China, calmly told them: "The war will pass. We must be ready for the future." 
The nations and peoples of the world today are in the grip of a crisis that is shaking our vaunted civilization to its bed-rock. Whithersoever we turn, here, there, everywhere Red Mars stalks the earth. Indeed these are most difficult and harrowing times, times which make the souls of strong men and valiant women quake, and yet we too know: "The war will pass. We must be ready for the future." 
Bishop of Superior, Wisconsin 

To prepare for the future we must plan and plot for that future now, and the first step is to take our bearings, to try to orientate our outlook. 
As we look back across the years of the past century and even beyond to the preceding century, we discover that the leaders of the world — the intellectual, scientific, political, social, and economic leaders — have been preoccupied vriVh. one problem, almost to the exclusion of everything else — the problem of the material universe. As a result of this intensive attention to material things, the physical or natural sciences have made the most amazing progress in the history of mankind. This tremendous advance in the conquest of our physical environment has made our age an age of phenomenal material progress and unimaginable wealth. Inventions hither­to undreamed of, have been multiplied without end and have found their way, not only into our laboratories and fac­tories, but also into our homes—even the homes of the lowly, to revolutionize our way of living. And as we know to onr sorrow, this same inventive genius in a thousand factories around the globe is turning out the instruments of death and destruction which are laying waste the face of God's earth. 
This successful conquest of nature has made modem man conscious of his power to modify and control his physi­cal environment and from this con­sciousness has sprung his materialistic philosophy of life. And the logical out­come of this attitude towards life is seen in the titanic struggle among na­tions for the mastery of the earth. The world is at war today, my young friends, because my generation became so.deeply engrossed in the quest of the material that it lost its vision of the spiritual. Its earth-bound and sin-stained eyes could no longer see the True, the Good, and the Beautiful — God. 
If the world of tomorrow, your world, follows the materialistic pattern of the world of yesterday, your hearts will ache and bleed, as do your fathers' and mothers' today, as you watch your sons and daughters march forth to die. 
As we cherish our dreams of peace to come, we must look to yon, the CajUh­olic leaders and fathers of the-i new world that is in the making, to interpret for your generation the saving message of Him who is onr peace, the peace of all mankind. Yon must be the city set on the hill to this generation. Yon mnst be the light uncovered for the dark days through which yon and yonr kind are passing. Yon young men. are being called to the defense of yonr country and to the arduous task of conquering those who would enslave all human life to the service and worship of the State. What price victory if yon save a na­tion without a soul! What price &ee­dom if yon strike off the shackles £cam the body and leave the spirit enchained! "The war will pass. We mnst be ready for the future." 
As yon prepare to meet the -fntiire yon may ask the present what it lias to hand on to you. What is your heritage? What are your assets as yon face the future and its problems? 
We give yon a land of large physical proportions, rich in natural resources beyond human consumption, ready for the material structure of the fntnre, needing only yonr ingenuity, skiU, and industry to wrest them from the earth. There is no need of anxiety or worry concerning your fntnre material secur­ity, if yon can devise ways and means to mine these riches and to distribute them equitably among yourselves ac­cording to the laws of natural, social, and Divine justice. 
We give to yon a land rich, in oppor­tunity for every man. and wranan re-­gardless of race, color or creed, but yonrs will be the task to equalize op­portunity by a broader understanding and tolerance of yonr fellow men. 

' We give to yon a land rich in its tra­dition of Democracy. Yon inherit a fonn of political society which for a centory and a half has proved to be the most successful experiment in seif-govem­ment in the history of the world. This is the way of life called the Amieriatn Way—and it is a way of life worth fight­ing for and dying for, but aboTe-;aIl it is a way of life worth living-for.^.Yoos fathers.and brothers and-jterhaps'^ar sweethearts, are fighting and. dying for it right now on the far-flung battle­fields of the world. 
We give to you a land in wJiich both you and your children can enjoy the opportunities and privileges of an edu­cation which is not directed by a nar­row, rigidly determined philosophy of an absolute state. Every son and daugh­ter of every citizen, even the poorest, can find in the school of his own choos­ing, the intellectual, moral, and spiritual training which will equip them for the tasks of life. 
We give to you a land which boasts of its tradition of religious freedom, so that you and yours may worship God according to your own faith, your o\vn conscience and convictions. 
The time may come when you shall have to defend this precious freedom against the encroachments of those who would attempt to restrict or shackle it. We have faith in your faith and cour­age to meet this issue when it arises. 
Yes we give to you young Americans our America and your America — all which that cherished word stands for. You'are rich in the possession of this priceless heritage as you face the fu­ture. 
But what about the future — what is the outlook — what is the prospect? There are prophets and astrologers who pretend to know how the world of tomorrow will shape up, but I do not. And I believe no one else does except God, Who knows everything because He is God. This much is certain, it will be one kind of a world if the United Na­tions win the war, but it will be an en­tirely different kind of world if the Axis powers win. To predict the world of the future, we must await the out­come of the war. Even when the war is over, the patterns of the world of the future will be seen only in the dimmest outline. 
The world will face a colossal task when it undertakes to put its disordered house in- good order for the works of peaceful living. Economic exhaustion, political confusion and physical and mental distress will pose tremendous problems for the architects of the New World. But given the energy, and en­thusiasm, and verve generated by vic­tory these seemingly insurmountable difSculties will be mastered as they have been in the past. While we do not know what the future world will be like, we may speculate about some of the things we would like to see in the world of tomorrow. 
" First of all, I should like to see a universal acceptance of the injunction to keep first things first. To keep God in His rightful place in the scheme of things—the Alpha and Omega—^the first and last. Faith in God, observance of His laws and the teachings of Christ are indispensable to every form of hu­man society. There can be no stable human rights and no freedom without faith and loyalty to Him Who is our liberty. 
1. I should like to see respect for himian life—a respect based upon the recognition of the intrinsic worth and dignity of the human person—a respect for man simply because he is a man, a human being made in the image and likeness of God—a. respect for man mere­ly for what he is, and not for what he may have or be able to do. 
As future fathers of the race you will be charged with • the sacred duty of giving life, which must be ndther shirked nor defiled. Yours will be the high privilege to give life to those who are to be not only the future citizens of America but also the future members of the Kingdom of God on earth and in Heaven. 
"A respect for human life is one of the most sacred things in any nation." 
2.
 I should like to see a respect for the family — the natural social unit. No nation is any stronger than its fam­ilies. If our country is to keep its right­ful place among the nations of tomor­row, we must cultivate a strong, vigor­ous, disciplined family life, we must restore the American family to the place of honor it held among our fore­fathers. The state must not usurp the rights of the family, it must not sup­plant the family, but subsidize, protect, and encourage it. 

3.
 I should like to see in the world of tomorrow a relationship of mutual re­spect and cooperation between employ­er and employee. An experience of more than 10 years in the arbitration of dis­putes between employers and employees has convinced me that nothing more is necessary to prevent or to adjust these tensions than a mutual respect and un­derstanding between the two groups. 

4.
 I should like to see in this commun­ity and in every other community in the America of tomorrow the same respect and friendliness and cooperation which the comradeship of wartime engenders. 

5.
 I should like to see a State in which the rights of every citizen are sacred and safeguarded, a state which exists to serve its citizens, and not a state in which the citizens are slaves of the State. 

6.
 I should like to see a revival of that indispensable respect for law and order 


— the law and order of God — tnthont which there can be no lasting peaces 
7. Finally, I should like to see a world in which all men accept the simple yet profound truth that the only lasting guarantee of security and peace for themsdves, their families, and their nations is a recognition of a brotherhood of man united and sustained by our common kinship with Christ throng the Fatherhood of God. 
Above all I believe, that under God, yon young people, you intelligent young American men, can by your energy, your enthusiasm, your faith, and your courage, contribute your share to- the rearing of this world of tomorrow. 
POSTWAR PLANNING 
J. Arthur Haley, '26, director of pub­lic relations, has just recently issued an attractive booklet, "In Time of War Prepare for Peace." The booklet con­tains some interesting data on the needs of the University in the field of buildings and endowment, with a pro­gram projected into the postwar era. 
Architects drawings of a proposed Fine Arts Building and a Graduate Hall decorate the booklet. Interested alum­ni can secure this by addressing a card to Mr. Haley or the Alumni Office. 
Possible source of alumni giving to the University through the Second An­nual Alumni Fund is the chart of tax exemptions for individuals, corporations and estates which the booklet carries. For example, on a taxable income of $10,000, a giit of $1,000 to Notre Dame actually costs the donor only $660 (with slight variation). A net taxable estate of $100,000 can leave the University $10,000 at a net cost of only $7,200. 
In 1939-40, a recent booklet states, more than half the income of 1440 American colleges and universities came from endowments, gifts and grants. 
BULLETIN! 
SeTerol deatlu of widespread interest and regret occurred just os the ALUMNUS was readying its final pages. They will be treated in detail next issue. In the meontime, pray for: 
Major Vincent F. Harrington. '25. Sioux City. la. who died in England. *Tubby" resigned from Congress to join the air corps. 
John Bergon. '31. South Bend. Ind. John was a foithiul and efficient Class Secre­tary whose work brought many interesting items to Classmates ererywhere. 
Matthew J. Idler, '42. Cliicago. An en­sign in the Nary air corps. Matt crashed in New Jersey. . Lt Wm. C Adams. '42, Lookout Moun­tain. Tenn. Bill hod been missing in action ^nee last July, and is now offidally re­ported killed in action. 


Another Semester Opens 
Accelerated program results in intensity of student and faculty changes, with little holiday provision. Classes being held on Holydays and New Years. 
Atmosphere and color are what you get in stories when few if any facts are available. Here's a little color about the new semester. 
Semesters at Notre Dame open and close now almost like these electric eye doors. You just look at a date on the calendar, like October 29 (commence­ment) and it jumps to Nov. 1 and the new semester opens. 
It begins subtly, with marching col­umns of midshipmen (who are not af­fected by the academic changes and always look familiar.) Then along comes a column of marines. They look fairly familiar, because you discover all but 12 new ones are back for more. (There is a large group not back, some seniors going on, and some non-seniors, also going on, but to San Diego.) Then along come the V-12 columns, the sea­men, again presenting a familiar ma­jority, bolstered by a scattering of new faces to fill the quota. The R.O.T.C. parades by realtively intact through its special program and its early stages of development. 
And threading its way individually among these columns is—^believe it or not — a larger civilian undergraduate group, numbering, however, only around 700, and subject to weekly de­mands of various draft boards and branches of the service. 
There are also many new faculty faces — result of sudden and increased 
.demands of the technical curricula. The next ALUMNUS hopes to catch up with a Who's Who of these new men, of whom there are some dozen or so, rang­ing from part-time professional men through graduate students to established scholars. 
Outstanding among the changes on the campus were those which sent Capt. Henry P. Burnett, U.S.N., commanding the combined Navy program, into active service in the Pacific. Capt. Burnett, who was first assigned to the University as commanding officer of the Naval B.O.­
T.C. unit in September, 1941, is suc­ceeded as commander at Notre Dame by Capt. J. Richard Barry, U.S.N. Both officers are Annapolis graduates with distinguished records in the service pre­ceding their appointments to Notre Dame. Under Captain Burnett, the Navy program at Notre Dame received widespread recognition for its excel­lence. 
Also detached for active sea duty, shortly after Captain Burnett, was Lt. Commander W: S. Howell, U.S.N., also a "veteran" of the Notre Dame R.O.­
T.C.
 command, who was executive offi­cer of the V-12 program at the time of his new assignment. Commander Howell has been succeeded by Lt. Commander 

A.
 R. Pierson, U.S.N. 


One of the active ingredients of the new semester has been a series of flares on the campus, evidently of incendiary origin, ranging from two serious fires in the old Ave Maria building and the carpenter shop, to small and scattered fires in various residence halls, the Church and the Main Building, all for­tunately stopped before reaching seri­ous proportions. All alumni know the disastrous fire history of the University. Intensive investigation is under way, with early solution promised. One of the investigators, deputy fire marshal of Indiana, is William Hindel, Roches­ter, Ind., a monogram baseball player at Notre Dame in 1895-96. 
CAPT. J. BICHABD BABRY. U.SJI. 
Annapolis, '09. then a career from gunboat to battleship, with a Navy mission to Colombia. S. A., preceding his N. D. assignment. 
Among the record-breaking aspects of the new semester is the holding of classes during the normal Christmas recess, with only Christmas Day a holi­day. Classes will be held on New Year's. 
NOTES 
As the ALUMNUS goes to press. Bill Dooley, '26, just over a touch of flu, is in LaSalle, 111., where his mother died on December 13. 
Last minute Christmas suggestion— if Christmas hasn't passed when you see this—(and a good suggestion the year round if it has) the combination of Fr. Hope's history of N. D. and the collected poons of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.,—both for $5. ' Address Box 185, Notre Dame, Indiana.) 
The Notre Dame Club of the S t Joseph Valley has set January 5 as the date of its famous annual football banquet honoring the University of Notre Dame team and coaches. No other details—yet. 
President Tom Byrne, '28, was due at Notre Dame on Dec. 18, for a conference on a bang-up First-of-the-Year program. Ready? 


Second Annual Alumni Fund 
(Ed. Note: Following are additional contribution* to the Second Annual Alumni Fond. The Association has been delayed 
in launching any intensive campaign in this second year because of a desire to coordinate it thoroughly with the University 
program, and to be ready in the Alumni Office to render proper cooperation to the CInb and Class officers. The program can be 
encompassed within a short space of time if these conditions prevail, so we need not worry about the ultimate goal. In the 
meantime, as a preparation for your participation, you could BUY U.S. WAR BONDS, as you did last year. Series E must be 
made out to a person — we suggest Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. Series F and G may be ordered 
directly in the name of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, a Corporation. And yon don't need to wait for the campaign. If 
you have already made your contribution, that fact will be made known to the necessary parties and will reduce their obliga­
tions to mutual advantage.) 
(Contributions. Sept 30, 1943, to Nov. 16. 1943) 
Platte. Ens. Peter J. 5.00 

1900 to 1904 1926 1935 
24.80 Scully, Lt. J. Paul. Jr. _, 2.00 
5.00 

Bcechinor, Howard F., '03 _S 10.00 Dunne. Robert V. Calalane. Bartholomew W. 
Kanaley, Byron V., '04 (2nd Dupj?an, Edward L. 5.00 Crego, Lt. Lewis C. 3.00 
82.00 

Gelson, J. Norbert, Jr., 5.00 10.00 
pajTnent 5-year pledge of Heinle. Philip J. 
1942 

$500) 100.00 Keefe. Lawrence V. 10.00 Maher, Lt. Charles E. 5.00 
10.00 Loncrgan, Frank J., '04 100.00 
Brutz. James C. 

Reardon, William F. 25.00 
Desel, Walter J., Jr. 5.00 

Sheridan. Lt. Thomas W. 5.00 $ 42.80 
Proctor. Robert E., '04 25.00 2.00 
Fallon, Thomas W. 

1936 Ford, Ens. James H. 1.00 235.00 7.50 
$ 55.00 

Cane, Frank E. _-Graliker. Ens. Stephen G. 10.00 3.00 
1905 io 1909 1927 Gilday, Harold J. Green. Ens. Richard D. _ 2.00 Cohen, Maurice _S 5.00 Kirby, James H. -5.00 Lucier. Lt Philip J. 10.00 
Rosenberger, Anton A., '07 5 25.00 McCabe. Harold T. _ 15.00 Nemeth, Peter F. 100.00 Reilly, Ens. Thomas E. _ 5.00 Patton, John M. _ _. 15.00 
Sutherland. Lt. Jesse O. _ 2.20 

1912 ; 115.50 Condon, Leo J. S 5.00 $ 35.00 $ 47.20 
1937 1928 Graham, Charles J. 2.00 1943 I9r4 -S 25.00 Marbach, John C. 3.00 Byrne, James J. _S 5.00 
Jones, ^^^lliam B. Mulcahy, Brig. Gen. __ 5.00 Nickel, Lt Robert W. 5.00 Ebner, Pvt Francis G. _ 5.00 
Robinson, John P. 
Francis F. , _ 5.00 Fogarty, John F. __ 5.00 
. $ 10.00 Haas, Sgt Joseph F. _ 5.00 
1917 S 35.00 
Walsh. Thomas F. . 
Herrington, Robert W. -_ 2.00 
1938 
3Iarcin, Fie Joseph N, „ __ 10.00 

Cooney, Dr. John M. . 25.00 1929 Boyle, Daniel E. _$ 1.00 
Wilson, L t Waldo W. __ 10.00 

Esan. Col. William J. 10.00 HolT, Rev. Norbert C. _S 100.00 Cole, Joseph E. , _ 5.00 Miller. Fred C _... 100-00 Eble, L t Paul F. J_ 25.00 
S 42.00 

5 35.00 Gomes, Rev. Anthony M. _ 5.00 1944 s 200.00 Mercado, Victor R. __ _ 2.00 Byrnes, J. 
 Robert 2.00 1930 Cbnstantin, James M. 2.00 
1918 
Giblin. Vincent C. 25.00 
; 38.00 
Cannon. Daniel F. : 3.00 Crowley, James G. 2.00 
Kirby, Arthur 0. . 5.00 $ Cullen, Joseph R. 2.00 1939 Englert, Earl R. 2.00 Kennedy, Gene J. 5.00 Dreiling. Virgil T. _$ 5.00 Forbes, Kenneth A. 3.00 
30.00 

Rafter, Joseph L. 25.00 Higby. Candiflate Kelly. Richard W. 5.00 1919 Sloan, Robert V. 5.00 Kenneth E.. Jr. _ 25.00 Kuhn. John M. 1.00 Eilers. Mark G. 25.00 Sowa. Frank J-10.00 Lloyd. Frank W. (El) _ _ 50.00 Lombardi. Gerardo J. 2.00 
Stettler, H. Louis, Jr. . 50.00 Powers, Thomas C. _ 2.00 Mangan, John T. .__._ _ 2.00 1920 Schirf, Capt Robert F. _ 5.00 Mason, Richard L. . 2.00 s 100.00 Tille, Raymond J.. Jr. , — 2.00 O'Connell, Paul W. 
2.00 

Verbiest, 0. Marcellus 20.00 
2.00 

"VValsh, Herbert M. 25.00 1931 Raley. Charles F. _______ 1.00 Boyle. Austin L. 5.00 
t 89.00 Snyder. William T. 
_s 5.00 
45.00 Leahy, Morris K. 5.00 1940 Yeates, Harry L. ________ 
Wittmann, Charles J. 10.00 Albert. Francis J., Jr. 
1921 S 33.00 
(Chf. Spc) . .. — $ 5.00 
Gorrilla, Dr. L. Vincent . 5.00 1945 
5 20.00 

Hart Lt Edward J. 6.00 
Sommer, Alphonse A., Jr. _s 5.00 

1932 Hellmuth, Capt Paul F. _ 25.00 
1922 
DeVault, Howard R. 5.00 Kelly, Lt Richard B. .... 5.00 1946 
_s

Huguenard, Aaron H. 25.00 
Jord^", JnTin A. 3.00 Letcher, John C. : 4.00 Kinn, Lt. Edward L. -S 100.00 
Phelan, Robert E. 10.00 
Kilburger, Harry F., S-2/C 25.00 Meeker, George R. 5.00 McLaughlin, I*eo V. 10.00 O'Meara, Midsh. 1947 5 35.00 
•\Vemer. John F. — 10.00 Alfred SI., Jr. 125.00 Suty, John A. (S-2/C) -S 5.00 1923 Pieri, Capt. Francis W. _ 10.00 McDermott, Francis F. _S 35.00 s 53.00 Schnickel, Norbert H., Jr. _ 5.00 "Alumnus" Subscribers Strable» Lawrence I*. __ 2.00 Tucker. Ens. William H. 6.00 Berra. Joseph -S 2.00 
1933 

Webster, John C. 25.00 McCarthy, Joseph A. 5.00 
Dames. Roland N. ,.,.. 5.00 
_s

S 37.00 4.00 
Darmody, Lt- Philip A. — 5.00 1924 Smith. Lionel V. 0.. $ 219.00 Rapp, William A. 2.00 
f'PM.A;^C;P^]J 
25.00 

Fox. l/t. Jerome F. _S 15.00 1941 
'•'"tal -S 

Del Zoppo, Albert J f 5.00 1925 $ 35.00 Fidler, Ens. Raymond P. 2.00 Grand Total _ .Sl,963.50 3Tenger, Joseph A. 2.00 1934 Hanly. L t Edward J. ,. . 10.00 Previously reported _ 7,530.75 O'Neil, Daniel J. 5.00 Hallauer, Edward W. _$ 10.00 Har\'ey. L t Edmund E. -25.00 
Schnieder, Vincent J. 10.00 Phancuf, L t Albert 0. _ 5.00 Hopkins, Ens. Francis J, _ _ 10,00 $9,494.25 Traynor, John P. 5.00 Young. Prt. Daniel A., Jr. 10.00 Jehring, Robert B 10.00 Deduct Duplications^ _ 2.505.00 MacCarrj', Cpl. Noel J. 3.00 
5 25.00 Martin, L t Emery W. .. . . 10.00 TOTAL net to date . _?6,989.2.i 
» (After the last issue of the ALUMNUS it was discovered that several substantial gifts which were received near the deadline of the Centenary Fund had 
been put in that total where they properly belonged, but the gifts were entered after the opening date of the 2nd Annual Fund, and were listed a second Ume.) 
By BATMOIID J. DOHOVJIM. '42 



ATHLETICS 
Students, alumni, fans and sports writers are still singing the praises of as great a team of All-Americans as, many insist, have ever stepped on the turf of old Cartier Field or inside Notre Dame Stadium—the 1943 Irish football squad. 
Great, not so much because they piled up one of the best records in the nation by winning nine out of ten games; nor because they gained an unheard of total of 3,199 yards on the ground, an aver­age of 319.9 yards per game, breaking the record of 310 yards set by Colorado College in 1937. No, this Notre Dame team was great, as is acclaimed by most of the nation, because of the uncanny ability they possessed, after being floored for the count of nine, to rise again and fight back at their opponents as though nothing had happened. In other words, the Irish of 1943 were great for their consistent and unfaltering display of Notre Dame Spirit. 
Starting the season an unknown quan­tity, the Irish served notice to everyone concerned that they had plenty of what it takes in their season opener as the entire squad romped up and down the field in smothering a woefully weak Pittsburgh eleven, 41-0. And the score, strange as it might seem, was held to a minimum in tribute to one of the nation's outstanding coaches, Pittsburgh's Clark Shaughnessy. 
Georgia Tech, opined the experts, might be the downfall of the Irish. Coach Bill Alexander brought what turned out to be one of the best teams in the South, led by tricky- Eddie Prokop, to Notre Dame Stadium, but Bertelli, Miller, Ry­kovich, Mello and one of the best lines ever to represent Notre Dame romped to a 55-13 victory. 
Rumor spread around the campus that sweet revenge would be in the air when the Irish tangled \vith Coach Fritz Cris-ler's highly touted Michigan eleven. No one had forgotten the 32-20 going-over Notre Dame received at the hands of the Wolverines in the 1942 battle, and the boys were keyed to the skies to halt the high-flying Michigan team. And stop them they did, in the season's high-light game, as the team couldn't do anything wrong. The Irish started right off in the first quarter, and if the third team hadn't been used rather sparingly the boys might have had to drag out the adding machines to tabulate the score. As it was. Coach Frank Leahy put a ceiling on the score after it had reached 35-12 propor­tions. 

Creighton Miller who played one of the outstanding games of his career tal­lied the first score in the opening period, breaking off left tackle on a 66-yard gal­lop. Michigan marched right down the field to tie it up on a series of passes and plunges, with Bill Daley, former Minne­sota back, bulling over from the four-yard line. Early in the second period, Bertelli fired a pass to Fred Earley, freshman halfback, and the play gained 69 yards for a tally. From this point on, Michigan never was in the game, and had it not been for Daley, would have suffered even worse humiliation from an Irish team which simply would not be denied. Miller's brilliant 55-yard broken field run was called back and a holding penalty imposed, but the Irish drove to the one yard line before being halted. In the third period, which ran 23 minutes because of a breakdo^vn of the score­board clock, Miller scored his second touchdown on a 16-yard pass from Ber­telli, Mello scored the fourth touchdown and Bertelli went over on a quarterback sneak. In the final seven seconds, a pass from Hirsch to Daley accounted for the second Michigan touchdown. 
In spite of using all available substi­tutes to help hold down the scores, the Irish still swamped hapless Wisconsin, 50-0, and Illinois, 47-0, before moving east to tangle with traditional Army and 
Navy both of whom ranked in the best ten teams in the nation. Angelo Bertielli, a vital cog to the Irish machine and one of the best qnarterbacks in Notre Dame football history, tossed three tonchdown passes against Navy in Cleveland's Mun­icipal Stadium in his finale before re-. porting to Parris Island, N. C, and scored another himself in leading Notre Dame to a convincing 33-6 victory. 
Beginning with the Army game, the Irish were forced to prove their great­ness without the help of Bertelli, and while they were still recovering from the loss of "Bert," sophomore Johnny Lujack passed and led his mates to a 26-0 win. Lujack passed to John Yonakor for the first Irish touchdown and later in the game flipped one to Yonakor again for a score and sneaked across himself. The turning point of the game proved to be in the third period, with the Irish leading, 7-0, when Jim White, outstand­ing tackle, snatched the ball away from Army's Glenn Davis deep in Army terri­tory. The Irish were on the march from this point until the game ended. 
Northwestem's Wildcats fell victim to Notre Dame the following week as the Irish turned on the power to win, 25-6. The story of this battle can just about be told by pointing out that the Blue and Gold chalked up 20 first downs, gained 302 yards on the ground alone and ef­fectively stopped the Wildcats' cagey Otto Graham. 
After convincing the nation of its prowess as the top college team in the nation. Coach Leahy's lads set about to dispose of two of the country's best ser­vice teams in the Iowa Seahawks and Great Lakes. Lt. Don Faurot's power-laden Seahawks almost turned the trick against the Irish as they dominated play during the first half, keeping Notre Dame deep in their own territory. The all-around brilliance of halfback Dick Todd, formerly with the Washington Redskins, and Jimmy Smith, formerly of Illinois, 

sent the Hawks into the final ten min­utes of the game ahead, 13-7. The Irish, displaying typical Notre Dame spirit, came surging back with a touchdown with eight minutes remaining, however, and one of the most exciting story book finishes ever witnessed in Notre Dame Stadium climaxed the contest as fresh­man Fred Earley calmly converted the e.\-tra point to give the Irish their hard­est fought win of the season. 
Notre Dame came within 25 seconds of their first undefeated, untied season since 1930 as they again fought desper­ately to outmaneuver an outstanding Great Lakes team. Pushing to a touch­down in the first quarter without relin­quishing the ball, it appeared as though the Irish would accomplish this unde­feated season. In the third quarter, how­ever, led by a former Notre Dame fresh­man star, Emil Sitko, the Sailors pushed over two touchdowns to lead, going into the fourth quarter, 12-7. 
Here again, however, Irish pluck man­ifested itself, the Irish fighting back with everything they had to drive 80 yards for a score. Earley converted, and with slightly more than a minute to go, led, 14-12. The Sailors' Steve Lach took the next kickoff, however, and after throwing a first down pass, tossed one to quarterback Anderson for a touch­down to snatch victory and an undefeat­ed season away from Notre Dame in the last 25 seconds, 19-14. 
The Irish, as Coach Leahy pointed out frequently throughout the season, be­sides having power to burn, also had luck on their side throughout the season. Excellent weather featured each of the ten Saturdays on which Notre Dame took the field. Injuries, which wreck the chances of many a good team, did not plague the Irish. Capt. Pat Filley fur­ther displayed this Irish luck as he won nine of the 10 coin tosses before the game. The lone exception was in the Sea-hawk g:ame. 
It must be emphasized, in all fairness, that Notre Dame was forced in many spots to depend upon freshmen and soph­omore performers, and that these per­formers for the most part came through admirably. Boys like Johnny Lujack, Bob Kelly, Julie Rykovich and Fred Earley, to mention a few, held key po­sitions in the Irish attack and performed like veterans. 
It should also be stressed that the 1943 Notre Dame team was composed chiefly of Notre Dame men. Out of the starting eleven men, only John Perko and Julie Rykovich are transfer students and only three or four more, such as Ray Kuflfel, end, Ray Davis, halfback, both of whom were lost to Parris Island in Vic Kulbitski, fullback, were on the traveling squad. 
Probably the greatest single break ob­tained by Notre Dame all season was the unexpected return to school after a medical discharge from the army of Creighton Miller. Creighton, son of Harry Miller, '10, star of the 1909 cham­pions who defeated Michigan, was the workhorse of the Notre Dame team, as well as being one of the greatest clutch and breakaway runners in the game to­day. Without his sterling performance it would be difficult to predict what would have happened in a few of the games. 
Every alumnus will probably agree that in the hearts of all Notre Dame men, that last minute defeat did not black out any part of the great season enjoyed by the Irish and that the 1943 Irish team will long live in the memory of all Notre Dame fans. 
BASKETBALL 
Ed "Moose" Krause made his debut as Notre Dame's new head basketball coach when the Irish opened their season, playing Alma College. Ed was named head coach last spring, succeeding Dr. George Keogan, who died last February, after serving as mentor of Notre Dame court teams for 20 years. 
The Irish entered the 1943-44 season without an experienced player from last year's great team, all of the monogram winners and all of the squad members with two exceptions having departed from the campus. Bemie Rutledge and Leo Klier, both of whom were on the 1942-43 squad, but together played a total of only six minutes all season, are the returning players. 
After several weeks of pre-season practice. Coach Krause still had not had sufficient time to get a proper line on the squad, but it was expected that the following players would start the first game: Ted Furman, a Marine private, who was a Notre Dame freshman last year, and Leo Klier, a member of the Navy V-12 program, who was a sopho­more last year, at the forward posts; V-12 Bemie Rutledge and John Kelly, a Marine private who also was a fresh­man at Notre Dame last year, at the guard positions; Marine Private Mike Todorovich, transferred from Washing­ton University of St. Louis, at center. Mike Smith, a 6 foot, 7 inch civilian from New Orleans, is also expected to see plenty of action, probably sharing the center berth with Todorovich. 
Others on the squad who impressed with their pre-season performances are: Pat Mullen, a Marine transfer from Marquette; Frank Kaufmann, a civilian from St. Ignatius High school of Chi­cago; Bob Pierce, a Marine transfer from Marquette, Ernie Kivisto, also a Marine transfer from Marquette; Frank Du­mont, a South Bend Riley High school star; Frank Gilhooley, a product of Cen­tral Catholic High school of Toledo; Tommy Sheehan, a V-12 enroUee, from West Haven, Conn., who was one of the stars of the baseball team during the past two years; and Pat Sraid, a V-12 from De La Salle High school in Chi­cago. 
The team will play nine games at home, and eleven on the road, including five contests in Chicago at the Stadium. An open date on Jan. 15 may be filled by Ohio State University. 
The schedule follows: 
Dec 1—Alma College at Notre Dame Dec. 4—^AVestem Michigan at Notre Dame Dec 11—Wisconsin at Notre Dame Dec 18—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium Dec 23—Purdue University at Notre Dame Dec 31—^Wisconsin at Milwaukee 
• Jan. 3—Purdue University at Purdue Jan. 8—Kentuclcy at Louisville Jan. ll-^Marquette at Notre Dame Jan. 15—Open 
Jan. 21—^Northwestern at Chicago Stadium Jan. 26—^Valparaiso at Notre Dame Jan. 29—Marquette at Milwaukee Feb. 2—DePauw Pre-Flight at Notre Dame Feb. S—DePauI at Chicago Stidium Feb. 9—Great Lakes at Great Lakes Feb. 14—New York U. at New York Feb. 19—Great Lakes at Chicago Stadium Feb. 2«—Iowa at Notre Dame Mar. 1—Detroit at Notre Dame Mar. 3—Camp Grant at Chicago Stadium 

midseason, Mike Todorovich, end, and 
AIl-Americoa OraigUoa tGllar cairies the bolL 
Sfudlifkt AUmuU 
^^A^AMM^^^AMM^^^^M^tM^^^^^^rfWW^^^^V^^^^^^ 
FEDEBAL lUDGE L. M. SWYGERT Notre Dame In His District 

T UTHER M. "MIKE" SWYGERT, 
LL.6. '27, 38 years old, was sworn into office on October 20, the first In­diana Democratic federal judge in 50 years, presiding in the district occupied by, among other institutions, his alma mater. 
Judge Swygert (we must save the "Mike" now for the Class reunions after the war) was bom Feb. 7, 1905, near Akron, Ind., and was graduated from Gilead high school before coming to Notre Dame. After a popular and active campus career, including business managing publications and keeping physically battered in interhall ath­letics, he opened a law office in Michi­gan City, Ind., moving from there to Hammond, where he practiced with William Travis, '28, until becoming deputy prosecutor for Lake County in 1931. In 1934, the youthful prosecutor was made assistant U.S. attorney for northern Indiana. 
He became interested in politics the year after his graduation (it says there), and he organized and became president of the Hammond Young Men's Jack­son Club. Mike is married and has two sons. Notre Dame hopes to see more of him in his new and disting^uished post. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE BATTLE FOR BELIEF (Continued from Page 10) 
and his natural rights are withdravm altogether, from notice." (3) 
The only alternative to the character­ization of man as a creature of God is, as Justice Wilson says, the assumption "that man is not only made for but made by the government." This alter­native is the very definition of tyranny. It is the essence of the Hitlerism that has now cursed the world. But the alter­native does not faze modem skeptics who violently flay "Fascism" while they glorify the materialistic philosophy of another Supreme Court Justice separ­ated from James Wilson by a century of time and by impassable barriers of doubt and determinism. 

Right now these skeptics are "riding herd" on the believers. As surely as the philosophy of James Wilson both re­flected and invigorated the American mind of the 18th century, just as surely is the philosophy of Justice Oliver Wen­dell Holmes now working to disinte­grate and destroy it in the twentieth. Whereas Wilson regarded man as "a natural person formed by the Great Author of Nature," (4) Holmes saw man merely as "a certain complex of energies" which could "make syllogisms" as distinguished from another "complex of energies" which could simply "wag its tail." (5) 
The Holmes philosophy of force and materialism has been brilliantly ana­lyzed by Rev. John C. Ford, S.J. Father Ford summarizes the Holmes philosophy as follows: 
"The essence of law is physical force. Might makes legal right. The law is to be divorced from all tnoixility. There is no siich thing as a moral OUGHT — ft is a mere fiction. Ultimately there is only the physical necessity of behaving or being killed. There is no absolute truth. Man is a cosmic ganglion. His ideas probably have no more cosmic value than his bowels. He himself has no more cosmic significance than a baboon or a grain of sand. There is too much fuss about the sanctity of human life. To the state, man is a vieans to be saerifieed if necessary in the interest of the state. The ultimate arbiter of all is physical force." (6) 
More alarming than the philosophy itself is the wide influence of those who wittingly or unwittingly have praised and/or espoused it. 
"Holmes is the present god of the lawyers and legislators of the United States. The Lato Schools worship at his shrine. No doubt many of those who lavish their praises upon him are think­ing of his decisions ivith which they agree, rather than of his ultimate phi­losophy of which they are ignorant, or which they think can be taken with a grain of salt. But the great chorus of adulation comes from the thinkers in modem law. From-Cardoza, from Pol­lock, and Wu; from Walter Lippmann, James M. Tufts, Thomas Vernon Smith, Learned Hand, Clyde B. Aitchison, Hes­sel Yntemq, Charles Evans Hughes, Jerome Frank, Morris Cohen, John Deioey, Roscoe Pound and many others. For the most part these men praise him as a philosopher of the law. And there are not many dissenters. 
"Let us quote Frankfurter again; he voices the sentiments of many of the others: 'Through the essays (the essays from ivhieh I have extracted most of his teachings) a more rational direction, a healthier tone was given to legal sci­ence.' 'He (Holmes) is a philosopher become king.' 'For centuries men to whom he will be among the great, and men who never heard of him "will be moved to the measure of his thought."'" 
In addition to this distinguished com­pany there are thousands of undistin­guished but persistent "intellectuals" who make their "syllogisms" or merely "wag their tails," depending upon the "certain complex of energies" to which they have elected to belong. The painful part of this attack upon the American Mind is the failure of the attacking forces to perceive what the framers of the Declaration of Independence clearly understood, namely, that, without God and eternity, human liberty becomes completely illogical — that, to the in­telligent liberty - loving "democratic" pragmatist, God is necessary if only because God is the one support and maintenance of liberty and human equal­ity. The traditional American Mind may be disintegrated, before we know it, by people who are not at all clear about what they are doing. Time is short. It is too late to go off like the fighter pilot and take the risks by ourselves. We are in the "bomber business" — the battle for belief is upon us. The faithful made up the American Mind. Only the faith­ful can save it. 
1.
 Writingt of Thomas Jefferson. P. L. Ford. VoL X. p. 343. 

2.
 Art. X m Constitution of South Carolina. 1778. 


B. P. Poor, Federal and State Constitutiont, Vol. 2, p. 1623. 
3.
 The Works of James TTHsom Edited by James 

DeWitt Andrews, Chicago. 1896. 

4.
 Ibid. p. 3. 

5.
 CoOeeted Leaal Papers, Oliver Wendell Holmes, 

New York, 1921. p. 315. 

6.
 Reverend John G. Ford. S. J. Fundamentals of 


Hermes' juristic Philosophy. Fordham Law -Re­
view. VoL H, p. 275. 
7. Ibid. p. 274. 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CHICAGO 
Wmism P. Keamcy, *2S, 519 Cedar St.. Winnetka, II!., Pres.; Thomas S. McCabe, '22. 144S lUscfaer Ave.. Sec 

The Chicago Club was compelled to cancel its plans for a pregame party before the Great Lakes-Notre Dame game by reason of the battle being transferred to Great Lakes. 
Cmpt. Ed Hennessy. MO, was in Chicago re­cently. Hie captain, after receiving several dec­orations for his efforts in piloting a bomber over Germany, has been assigned to duty in the United States. Lt. Cmdr. Jim Murtaugh, '22, of the U. S. Naval Air forces after many months in South America, passed through town in Sep­tember on his wa>' to a new ass-gnment in the South Pacific Lt. George Coury, of the Navy's Lightcr-than-Air Command at Cape Hatteras, was home on furlough this summer. John D. Golden, '30, joined the armed forces as of Nov, 19. 
Bert "Torrens Title" Korzcncski is at Camp McCoy at Sparta. Wis. Richard Phelan recently resigned from the Chicago Title and Trust Com­pany to accept a position in the Surgeon Gener­al's Department, where he is renegotiating con­tracts. 
Among recent additions to the Chicago alumni are: Herbert P. Vadker, '23. who resigned as comptroller of the Old Age Assistance Dejiart­ment of the state of Iowa to become secretary and treasurer of the Bom Manufacturing Com­pany here. Herb is living in Oak Park at 309 
S. Clinton St.; Walter F. Mullen. '32. who is district manager of the Ozalid Products Division of General Aniline & Him Corp. Walter lives at 622 Sheridan Rd. in Evanston. 
The Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Company recently announced the appointment of Richard 
J. Dann, *I8. as director of public relations. Dick will shortly move to Chicago from Boston where he has lived for the past 15 years. 
Strong sentiment is evident in Chicago as well as downstate favoring the nomination of John Cawidy, *17, of Peoria as Democratic candidate for governor of Illinois. John distinguished him­self as attorney general under the late Governor Homer. 
Tom McCabe 

CLEVELAND 
Jahn J. Reidy, '27, 1204 Guardian B!dr.. Pres.; Jon Beljon, '30, 11805 Cromwell Ave. Sec 

Tom Conley was the genera! chairman of the highly successful Na\*y-Notre Dame week-end sponsored by the dub. Pete Champion guided a cocktail party preceding the immense Rally and Dance in the Carter Hotel, Friday evening; Ed Killeen was chairman of the latter. 
Pat Hanlon, dean of the College of Law, was 

m.c of the Rally, and he presented the following array of speakers: John P. Murphy, Frank Leahy, Rev. Jaraes D. Trahey, C.S.C., Com­mander H. E. Overesch, commandant of mid­shipmen at Annapolis. Tom (National President) Byrne and Jade Reidy, president of the club, who presented honorary memberships in the club to M m K. K. Rodcne and her daughter, Jeanne. 
At the si>eakers' table, in addition to the speak­ers and the Rocknes, were: Ray, Walter, Jerry and Don IVIiller, uncles of Creifhton (his father. Harry, didn't reach Cleveland from Wilmington until the next morning) ; Rev. HIdiael Moriarty, Mr. qnd Mrs. Herbert E. Jones. Stan CofaU* Cnpt. Hall. Capt Niquist. Lt- Cmdr. Woeraer and Alumni Secretary Harry England of the Navy psrty: and Ed Krause, Ed McKecver and Bill Dooley from Notre Dame-
Bill Van Rooy did a noble job of chairman­ing the pre-game luncheon in the stadium Sat­urday noon, which, like the Rally, was a sell-out job. 
Tom (Cadillac) Bymc and Clayt Leroax put out a super-duper program. Pictures of the N.D.­Michigan game were shown at Charlie Rohr's rest^mrant on Oct. 10. There was a full house; the beer was free and everyone had a good time. President Jade Reidy appointed a committee, headed by Stan Cofall and including Tom Con* ley and Pat Canny, to start negotiations to bring the game here again next year. 
Al Grisanti was elected to the coundl. He's engaged to Rose Fallon. Congratulations. Rev. Bernard Blatt, our chaplain, taking in the pre­game Rally with his brothers. Ed and Georve. Father Da\id Fosselman, C.S.C., is temxwratily stationed at Our Lady of Peace church 'while attending W. R. University. J. Kinr Kerrer's new address is 2074 CAAF. Class 44-C, Court-land, Ala. His father, George, says King has completed his pilot irourse recently. Gay Haas is in Hawaii with his family. He's in charge of electrical maintenance of one of the large air fields. He's been there for three years already. 
Frank Celebrezzc, our safety director, made it tough for ticket scalpers. Don Miller* uncle of Creigfaton and local D.A.. is to be congratulated for his persistency, his sixth heir was a boy; the previous five were girls. Stan Ledcowicx passing out cigars for his latest arrival, a boy. That makes five now for Stan. He's stationed in Cleveland and is the labor relations counsel at the Fisher bomber plant. 
Ensign Joe P rokop was married recently to Mary Dolores Klough. Lt. Edwin Caldwell is ex­pecting an arrival soon. Ensign Chack H. Kane's address is NAAF Boat Facility. Mayport. Fla. He expects to be assigned to duty overseas soon. Ned Weliifartner is on LST in Sicily. He took part in the invasion of that island. 
Vic Gnlyaasys is in the army too. Ed Sdirocter is at Lakehurst. N. J., an ensign. Coach GecTcr Gavin's Holy Name football team just missed out on the city's big charity football game. Gene Sawicki is still in the Internal Revenue Depart­ment. Norm HcLeod now has three boys and three girls. He's with the P. A. Geier Co. Norm handled the publicity for the big week-end and did an excellent job as usual. 
Mrs. Viktorj-n writes us that Dr. Jshn is a major with the Army Air Corps. ccmimandinK officer of the medical detachment of an air dqxit group stationed somewhere in England; that he recently became the father of another baby girl. Mrs. Coleman writes that son Bill, *40. is an ensign in the Supply Department at Norfolk, Va-. and son Sgt. Bob, '42, is overseas and would ap­preciate letters from his friends addressed to No. 35524178. 182 Prov. M-P. p/w Det. APO 4707, c/o P.M.. N.Y.C. 
Val Peak, still at Jap. Lang. School. Boulder, Colo., but now an ensign, writes that he spent a week-end in Denver, saw Gene Blish, '34. who gets out a Denver Club news letter, and Paul Morrison at Fitzsimmons Hospital there. Val hopes for a furlough in November. Bad (Edward D.) Raddatz can be reached at Hanford Engi­neer Works. P.O. Box 429. Pasco. Wash. His brother. Les, is in Burbank. Calif. Fran Kiener was home on leave in September. He's an en­sign and has been assigned to a newly built ship handling radio. The Kieners must be there on radio; Jfrfin is head of the radio end of Cuyahoga County Civilian Defense. 
Chnck Rohr tells us that Jim Callahan is driving a tank now, but still in the country and has taken off pounds. Tom Schriner, '39. is a first lieutenant in the Army Medical Admn. Corps, stationed in the South Pacific Write him at 8th General Hospital, APO 502, c/o P.M.. San Francisco. Al Lawton got himself a promotion and has moved to Hartford. Bob Butler is now a captain at San Antonio. Tex. Joe Schrocder, '31, of Minnerpolis. a captain, went through town and called Phil Prendergast, who says he's the same old guy. 
Chet Rice has left OPA to go with the Struc­tural Steel Co. Bncky Ryan is now at Hartford, Conn., as inspector for Pratt-Whitney. Capt Joe Heimann was home on furlough a couple of weeks ago. Dr. Cy Caldwell is now at Fearl Har­bor fixing Navy teeth. Fred Payne has been commissioned an ensign and will leave home for active duty this month. John Beyerle, '43. is in the medical division of AERC Matt Payne is an air cadet in the Engineering Division at Seymour Johnson Tield. N. C , and his brother. EnMgn Frank, is Postal Liaison Officer for the 10th Naval District. Porto Rico. Bill Hazanec is in the Fleet Sound School, Key West, Fla. 
Paal Brady was home on leave recently, look­ing great. Bob Mazanec's wedding was postponed again when he-, was transferred to Los Angeles. Michigan alumiii invited N-D. alumni to see movies of the ^ game. All five Miller brothers were on hand & see Creighton against Na\*y. Al Sommcr has just been made Cleveland manager for McCann-Erickson Co. Inc. one of the larg­est ad agencies. Jerry Rcidy had a time getting a two-day leave from Chanute Field to see the Navy game. { 
Pat StiUisand^ *38. writes George Thomas of Willoughby from Australia where he has been stationed with the Army Medical Corps. Says he has come across some of the boys mentioned in our previous letters and mentions two others — Ray Geiscr from New Jersey, and Pete Arboit. '-I0. from Peoria. Marty Rinihas left the city law department to go with the War Labor Board. Ptdc Prezehcl has been commissioned in the Air Corps and has left the country. Jack CaDins, a JAGD in Washington, was home on leave and announced his engagement to Betty Kelly of Washington. D. C. Rarer Brcnnan had a new son recently. Jim Barke, a lieutenant (jg) is an aerial gunnery instructor in the Navy, stationed in Seattle. George Belting has gone to Colorado. His mother writes us that James W, Bmku a is a technical sergeant in the Marines at Marine Air Station, Cherry Point, N. C. He 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 19 
enlisted in December, 1941. John Payne. C.S.C., is at Foreisrn Mission Seminary. Brookland, D. C, and believes N-D. men should lead the present national movement to promote daily family say­ing of the Rosary. His mother writes in that John T. Francies of Chagrin Falls, is stationed in North Africa with the 16th Evacuation Hos­pital, APO 758, c/o P.M., N.Y.C. Says he met Phil Carroll there. John is in the Registrar's office. 
Red Callahan is now known as "Pop" at Fort Knox. Art Becvar ran into Lt. Mike Crawford in Chicago recently. Joe Hanrmtty was expected in town for the Navy game. Did he make it? James S. Foren, *22, formerly of Detroit, is now in Cleveland, living at Quad Hall. He's with the Army Air Force in the Industrial Relations section. Young Stan Cofall got his first leave in nine months to see the Navy game. Georce Kozak is now supervisor of physical education for all the public schoo!s under the Board of Education. 
Jon Beljon 

DETROIT 
John W. Brennan, *27, American Blower Corp., 632 Fisher Bld^., Pres.; Henry J. CUrk. ex. '30, 220 Merrill St., Birmingham. Mich., Sec. 

This fall has been a busy one for the Detroit Club. Vie handled some of the Detroit attend­ance at the Notre Dame-Michigan game, spon­sored a pre-game Jamboree, on Oct 8 and a boat trip to Cleveland for the Notre Dame-Nax-y game. 
The Jamboree, held at the Hotel Statler, was presented by the monogram men of the Detroit Club, and chairmaned by Jay L. "Biffy" Lee. Biffy, with the help of the local sports writers, was able to bring in 500 paying guests to see and hear the greatest array of past and present football talent ever to be gathered at one time from the two schools. The speakers* table "was termed by Gns Dorais "the longest AlKAmerican table he had even seen"; it ran the full length of the Statler Ballroom. 
Some of the celebrities seated at this table were Gov. Harry Kelly, Mayor Ed Jeffries, a Michigan alumnus; Rev. John J. Cavanangh, 
C.S.C vice-president of the University, Gas Dorais, and nearly all of the Notre Dame mono­gram men in this area; the University of Mich­igan was represented by Lt. Cmdr. Harry Kipke. and two of Michigan's all-time All-Americans, Willie Heston and Germany Schultz. 
Art Cronin and Gil Scfaaefer did a very good job of conducting the boat trip to Cleveland. — in fact they did such a good job that it was necessary to run two boats to take care of the crowd. 
Henry Clark 

HONOLULU (New Club) 
An informal Notre Dame club has been or­ganized in Honolulu. Wartime censorship restric­tions prevent the publication of the names of club officers, but it can be said that meetings are ordinarily held Sunday afternoons in the Manona Hotel. Alumni can get further information at the Port Director's Office, Aloha Tower. 
LOS ANGELES 
Edramd C. Ashe. ex. '2S, 11S34 BKaKiwiia BlTd„ North Hollywood, Calif, Prcs.; lO­ducl F. Shannon, ex. "SS. P. O. Box, C31, Tacaon, Arix., Sec; Edward P. CanninsluiH, '28, 85t W. Waahinfton Bird., Loa Anxdea, AcUnc Sec. 

lliree Notre Dame men, Joseph Scott, J. W. Mullin. Jr., and G. Lawrence Ott, were members of the Archbishop Cantwell clziss that opened the new Serra Retreat House in Malibu in October. 
Alarty Brill, former coach of Loyola University of Los Angeles, has been released as a sergeant by the Army Air Corps and commissioned a first lieutenant in the Marines. Marty had been sta­tioned at the Santa Ana (Calif.) Air Base, where he coaches football. 
Superior Judge A. A. Scott heads the Chil­dren's Court of Conciliation in Los Angeles County. About one-third of the cases brous^t into his court. Judge Scott said, are straightened out or the discord lessened. Ha hcs a staff of five. 
St. Basil's Church, Wilshire and Harvard, where Knnte Rockne's 1930 National Champions attended Mass before their final game - with Southern California, was gutted by fire re­cently. The Blessed Sacrament and vestments were saved. 
Joseph Scott led the local Knights of Colum­bus in a commemoration of Columbus Day on Oct. 12 by taking over the bond sales at the Victory Bond House in Pershing Square. 
In case any of the club members would care to postcard along any news of themselves or other members — I'm still at the Elks Hospital, 
P.O. Box 631, Tucson. Ariz. Miks Shannon* 
NEW yORK CITY 
George H. Rohrs, '33, 6107 Spencer Ave^ Riverdale, N. Y., Pres.; James M. CarroD, ex. '31, Hotel Capitol. 840 Eighth Ave^ Sec. 

Two hundred people, it ' WES estimated by Chairman James M. Carroll* were turned away from the annual Army-Notre Dame Rally in the Hotel Commodore grand ballroom on Nov. S. The fall house inside was entertained liy a line­up of Broadway and Hollywood personalities in­cluding Bill Robinson, the Ink Spots, Benny fields. Hazel Scott and Mildred Bailey. Pro­ceeds of the Rally were ifivided between the Army Air Forces Aid Society and the Notre Dame Service Fond. 
CBS at 11:15 p.m.. EWT. carried, coast-to­cosst. a lo-minute program from the Rally. Ted Husing. who was to broadcast his 20th Anay-Notrs Dame game the next day. was the m.c.. and he was honored with a Notre Dame blanket, presented by George Rohrs, preadent of the club. Also on tbe broadcast were Ber. Jolw J. Cava­n:2a^, C.S.C.. vice-president of the University, Brig. Gen. William E. Hall. Brig. Gen. La Verne Saunders (former Army football star). Grant-land Rice and Col. Emmet O'Doimell. 
Carl Waite, .representing the Treasury Depart­ment, disposed successfully of a football auto­grnphed by players: and coaches of both teams. Fraacis '^Bags*' Waltlwr'a orchestra played for dancing. 
Assisting Jiai CarroU on the executive commit­tee for the Rally were John J. Antaa, Edward Arthar. John T. Balfe, Edward J. BerfcMaw. John Colville, Art Dennehy. Jaaws Dwyer, Jo­seph G. Friel. Lea Grmdy, Rohert A. Haailtm, Wilfred Kirk, John S. LaTeBe. Jaacph F. Haiu­field. John C. BCaihach. Capt. JaaMS McCahc, George Marran, Leo NcLaagUin. Calaam CShaaghneasy, Jeocph Porter, Jehu Sodw, G=orse Rohrs, Don Spencer and Edward Titftt, 
Assen Jordanoff, president of the Jordanoff Aviation Corp., the chief si>eaker at a recent meeting of the clnb, has presented to the Uni­versity for the use of aeronautical en^eering students a complete set of his books. Mr. Jor­danofT is widely known in the aviation field as the author of technical works and as an expert in the visual training of Air Corps personneL 
A group of alumni w*r« guMis oa Oct 2 m th« hooM ol Thomos F. Olfoil. 'IX Miami Beach, to Usten to tho Goorgia Todi-NDi gamo. Loft to right aro Euig a Ed­ward C. Boney. '43, 1st tL Wilfiam J. Wolih. '4L Enaiga Bobnt M. WcddL '43. &isx9n James A. Gkardr '43. and Mr. OHoiL 
PHILADELPHIA 
HmnU Dake. '30, 4130 N. Broad St., (Bad­dUr CHI, Hancock 3153) Pies.; Joaeph F. Cattie, '41, C302 Gardenia .St., (German­town MIS) Sec 

The club has pledged to Father Flannagan and his Boys' Town in Nebraska the sum of 5500 to­ward a scholarship fund by means of -which some deser\-in^ Boys' Town citizens will receive Notre Dame training. Details of the plan remain to be arranged and will l>e announced-
WKTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Dr. Leo D. O'DonneU, *17» 704 Maryland Ave, Pittafcarth, Pres.; Wm. H. H. Gnder, Jr., IISS Mominrnde Ave. Fittsbursrh. Sec 

TTie night before the Pitt-Notre Dame eame, we had one of the finest get-togethers we've had in many a day at Hotel Webster Hall. There was no program — just a good old gabfest. Among those asked to take a bow were:— 
Father John Cavanmnffh, vice-president of the University; Clark Shaughnessy, Pitt coach; Buddy Overend, graduate manager of athletics at Carnegie Tech; Gene Edwards, St Vincent's coach: Herb Jones, Ed McKeever, Harry Miller, Don Miller. Pat Canny, Jim Costin (South Bend "Tribune") and J. Vide O'Brien, '93, professor of music at Carnegie Tech and one of our most illustrious local alumni. 
Saw Bill AlcCalloch, '30. now with the War Department negotiating ammunition contracts. He was proudly introducing his 11-year-old boy to the members and later on produced some pho­tographs of his lovely wife and four children. 
Bcmie Conroy, '30, who is now personnel man­ager for the United Engineering and Foundry Ca. Vandergrift plant, was on deck. Dr. S^ D. Solomon, '23, Ebensburg. Pa., was seen chatting with Dr. Boh BlacDonald. He and Bob interned with Dr. Frank Hesrarty. Dr. Solomon has four children. Dr. MacDonald has three- Tom Dixon, industrial engineering for J. & L. Steel Corp., was chatting with John Mc&Iahon. Tom has a nine-month-old daughter. 
Gene Coyne, '33, has graduated from Duquesne Law School, passed the bar exam, taken a job 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
with the Pennsylvania Manufacturers Association and enlarged his family to three (two boys and now a girl). 
Haffo lacovetti. '34, second lieutenant. Camp Forrest, Tenn., 30th Division, was reviewing old times with Sfft. Bill O'TooIe who appears to be permanently stationed at the New Cumberland, Pa., reception center. 
Tork Meine^, '28, now with the Wm. H. Orr Co. (non-ferrous metals) was having quite a session with Frank McSorley and Jack Sheeny. Carl Link. '34, Claim Dept of Aetna Casualty Co., and Bob Hartman, '32, were reviewing old times. 
Bill Sndir. '34, now has four boys. His brother, Dick, is helping to bring this war to a quick finish. He has just returned to the states with 16 Zeros, definite, and 26 Zeros, probable, to his credit. He's been piloting a P-40 in the Pacific area. The Distinguished Flying Cross and almost every other award have been awarded to him. 
Lt. E. E. Kirwan, '27. was in town for the game. Fritz Wilson, Dr. Didc O'Tvole and Jahn McSorley saw the Michigan bubble burst at Ann Arbor. Capt. George Scfaill stopped in for lunch the other day. The club expresses its sincere sym­pathy to the family of Wm. A. Martin who died October 8. He was the father of Chas. W., '27, and Don, '33, Bfartin. 
Don Martin, just returned from Curacao, re­ports that he has seen— Capt. J. Fred SisMn, '39, (U.S. Na\T) somewhere overseas; Ckariey Quirk, '34. with International Business Machines overseas: Ed Molvihill, '34, with Sinclair Oil Co. in Caracas, Venezuela; Lt. Chack JaskwUck. *33, (U.S. Navy) in P\ierto Rico; Johnny dark. '34, with USO, Puerto Rico. 
Lt. Jf>hn Patterson has been sending Pitts­burghers some interesting observations on the soldiers' reactions to show people overseas, via the Pittsburgh "Press," his former employer. Pat. the former sergeant, was commissioned in the field — a real recognition. John FaTlick is now lieutenant (jg). Ensicn Dan Bradcrick. Jr.. is with a gun crew on a merchant ship. Met Bill Hahin. '28, the other evening. He is still solving metallurgical problems for the Westing­house Electric & Mfg. Co.. East Pittsburgh. 
FOR GOD, COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
Ensign William G. Foley, '41, Mem­phis, Tenn., was killed instantaneously on Sept. 27 when his plane crashed near Wildwood, N. J. 
Bom in New Bedford, Mass., Bill had resided in Memphis for 12 years, where he attended Christian Brothers College before he matriculated at Notre Dame. He was employed at Fisher-Memphis Aircraft before he enlisted in the Naval Air Corps on Sept. 3, 1942. He was commissioned at Fensacola, Fla., on June 11, 1943. 
At Notre Dame, Bill stood out as a director of the Commerce Forum, presi­dent of the Spanish Club and a mem­ber of the. Radio Club and the Glee Club. 
Surviving, besides Bill's parents, are a sister and two brothers, both in the Army, one of whom, Lt. Thomas J. Foley, Jr., '35, is overseas. 
1st. Lt. Neal Dudley Smith, Jr., ex. '41, Paw Paw, Mich., was killed on July 16, 1943, when, piloting a B-26 bomber in an attack upon a Sicilian airfield, he was hit by enemy ground fire. He kept his plane under control, turned it over to his co-pilot, who flew the crew home safely with Neal's body in his arms. 
Neal had been in the Army Air Forces for two years and had seen much ac­tion. He attended Western Michigan College as well as Notre Dame. Surviv­ing him are hjs parents and one sister. 
2nd Lt. Richara J. Goad, '42, of the United States Marines, was killed in action in the South Pacific area accord­ing to word received by his mother, of Green Bay, Wis., in November. 
Dick attended St. Norbert's College, in Wisconsin for a year and a half, then entered Notre Dame in September, 1940. He was graduated in September, 1942, and enlisted in the Marines on Dec. 19, 1942. He received his Marine training both at Parris Island, S. C, and at Quantico, Va., and was commis­sioned at the latter place on April 7, 1943. He went overseas a short time later. 
Surviving Dick are his mother and two sisters. 
Cpl. Joseph William Reynolds, '43, 
Asheville, N. C, was 
killed at Camp Mc­
Cain, Miss., when a 
truck in which he 
was riding on night 
maneuvers over­
turned. Bill and an­
'•••'.?• V IF"---' "^ other soldier were 
pinne d underneath 
it when it rolled down a 20-foot em­
bankment, and both died. 
Bill was particularly known at Notre Dame as an outstanding member of the Scholastic staff. He was the Scholastic sports editor in his final semesters, and served also as secretary to Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Department of Journalism. 
Enrolling in the Army's Enlisted Re­serve Corps while he was still on the campus, Bill was inducted in February, 1943, at Fort Bragg, N. C, and was later assigned to Camp McCain in the Field Artillery. 
Bill's parents and his five sisters sur­vive him. 

Aviation Cadet Archie C. Strang, Jr., ex. '43, Anaconda, Mont., was killed in October in a crash near the Naval Training Station, Hutchinson, Kans. 
Archie was at Notre Dame from Sep­tember, 1939, to June, 1940. He entered the Navy Air Corps in November, 1942, and received his pre-flight training in Missoula, Mont. He had been assigned to Hutchinson for primary flight train­ing. 
2nd Lt. John E. Cox, ex. '43, West Haven, Conn., first pilot of a Liberator bomber, was killed on Oct. 22 in the European area! 
John was at Notre Dame in 1939-41. He enlisted in the Army Air Force fol­lowing the attack on Pearl Harbor and was accepted on Jan. 19, 1942. He had his pre-flight training at Maxwell Field, Ala., and later trained at Lafayette, La., Greenville, Miss., and Dothan, Ala., where he was commissioned at Napier Field on March 25, 1943. He was mar­ried at the post chapel the following day to Shirley Cargill, New Haven, Conn. 
Following futher training at Tucson, Ariz., and Pueblo, Colo., John left the country in September for foreign serv­ice. On Oct. 25 his wife was notified of his death. 
Surviving John are his wife, his par­ents and three sisters. 
Sgt. Romaine M. Fiffe, ex. '43, Sa­

lina, Kans., a nose gunner on a bomber, was killed over Germany on Aug. 15, 1943. Surviving him are his wife, his parents, three brothers (two of whom are in the Marines) and two sisters. 
Komaine was at Notre Dame in 1939­

40. He was married on July 5, 1943, and on July 10 left Salina for overseas serv­ice, only to meet his death in little more than a month. 
Cpl. John W. Shea, ex. '43, Pough­keepsie, N. Y., brother of 1st Lt. Robert 
J. Shea, '40, was killed in the Asiatic area on Sept. 14 when he was struck by an airplane which had crashed in a take-off. 
John was inducted into the Army Air Corps on March 8, 1943. He had his basic training at Miami Beach, Fla., and was later trained in cryptography at Pawling, N. Y. He went overseas in June. 
Vito W. Cappello, '43, Brooklyn, 
N. Y., was killed in action in the Nort h African area on or about Aug. 3, accord­ing to word which hi s family re­ceived from the War Department on Sept. 7. 
One of the outstanding cam­pus musicians of 
Tlte Cappdla 

recent years — a music major academically — Veet was a member of the symphony orches­tra and the band and was, in his senior year, president of the latter. In his final semesters at school he was also leader of the Cavaliers, well known campns dance band. 
Surviving Veet are his parents and two sisters. 
MISSING IN ACTION Lt. Charles M. BransBeld, ex. '41, Chicago. Missing in action in Italy. Lt. Albert J. Fensel, ex. '42, Brad­
ford. Pa. Missing in air action over Italy. 
PRISONERS OF WAR 

Capt. John E. Duffy. '23, Toledo, 0., Army chaplain since 1933. Captured in Philippines and held prisoner there by the Japanese. 
Lt. Edward F. Miller, ex. '42, Roch­ester, N. Y. Navigator on a B-24. Pris­oner in Germany. 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
(Including names received and classified up to November 23. 1943) 
Barkowslu, Leonard E., ex. '44, Pvt, Flat 763­R.D.. MCB. San Diego 41, Calif. Beal. William H.. ex. '45, SK 3/C Co. Box 2, OOD's Office, USNAS, Jacksonville, Fla. Backer. Charles W., ex. '46, Pvt . 549 Btry, AAA Bn., Camp Edwards, Mass. Bellnomini, John A., ex. '47, Lt., Medical De­tachment, Foster Field, Texas. 
Benninc. George L,, e.\. '46, Cadet, 3318-S.U., ASTP A-S. Drc\el Inst, of Tech., Philadelphia. Bermingham John C , '42, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army, Btry B, 138th AAA Gun Bn., Camp Davis, 
N. C. Bethea, Peter W., ex. '46, AJC, Cadet Detach­ment, Sqdn. II. GCAAF, Gzrden City, Kans. Blind, William C, '32. Lt (jg), USNR. USNTS. Fort Schuyler, N. Y. Bocinec, Joseph J., ex. '37. AjS. USNTS, Co. 1406, Great Lakes, 111. Bodic, John F., ex. '46, Pvt., Student Sqdn. No. 1, aas s 43-45, LVAAF. Las Vegas. Nev. Boyle, Vincent T., ex. '46, Pfc, 621 Sqd., Bks. 2124. Madison, Wis. 
Brady, Michael H., ex. 45, Av/C, Group W, Sqdn. N, Bks. 733, Navigation Wing. Ellington Field, Texas. 
Bransfield. Charles M.. ex. '41. Lt., USNR (Hiss­ing in action—-Italy). Brennan. Patrick T., ex. '44. 9th Weather Sqdn., APO 845. c/o P.M.. New York City. 
Bright, John H., ex. '44, Bks. No. 714, Co. L, 2nd Bn.. FRTC, 3568 S.U.. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. 
Broderick, Raymond J., '35. Lieut. Comdr., c/o FPO, San Francisco. Brosey, Henry C , e.'C. '42. SCU 4437, Clemson, 
S. C. Brown, CliSotd F., '37, Pvt. U.S. Army, Oo. 
A. Bks. 9. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Brown. Jerome M., ex. '46. Pfc , 13th TSS, Bks. 
810. Scott Field. 111. Brown, Walter H., '35, Cpl.. HD 22nd Bomb Group. APO 922. cjo PJI.. San Francisco. Browning, Robert F., '43, USNTS. Abbott Hall. Chicago. 
Bmndage. Thomas L., ex. '45. AAC. Air Cadet, 312 CTD, 43-c-ll Flight I, Washington. Uni­versity, S t Louis. 
Bryan, Robert J., '38. L t (jg) Navy medical service, c|o Fleet P.O.. New York City. Burke, Leo F., ex. '44, Class 44F, Sqd. D^l, Pilot AAFPFS, Maxwell Field. Ala. 
Bnrkholder, Merton E., ex. '46, Pvt., aviation student. Box 272, Springfield College. Spring­field. Mass. 
Bums, Hugh L., '39, Pf c USMCR, Hdqs. Co., Serv. Bn.. Camp Le Jeune. New River, N. C. 
CappilUno, William M.. '39, 1st Sgt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, Mitchell Field, N. Y. Carey, James J., ex. '47, AvyC, Class 44 a Darr Aero. Tech.. Albany. Ga. Carney. John B., '42. T/5, School Co. No. 2, ESSR. Fort Belvoir. Va. 
CarraO. WilliaH A., Jr.. ex. '46, A/C, USNAS. 9-A-Lt, BAB-112. Hutchinson Field, Kans. Canua. Laws J., '43, Pvt., U.S. Armed Forces Inst., Madison. Wis. 
Casey, tUkttt B., ex. '44, Pvt . Co. A. 77th Bn., 14th Tmg. Rest., Bks. 3, Camp Fannin, Texas. Cash. Antkony J., ex. '47, Pfc, 3326 S.n.. US­
MAP. I.afayette College, Easton, Pa. Casain, Edward T., ex. '46. CpL. U.SL Army Medical Corps, 999 Medical Co., Fitzsimmons Gen. Hospital, Denver. Colo. 
Cawky. JaaMs V., '40, L t (jg), USNR, Naval Armed Guard Center, Sooth Brooklyn, N. Y. Ckcmey, Andrew W.. ex. '42. Lt , 1st A.F.. 
Mitchell Field. Garden City. LJ., N. Y. CiWTidiy. John E., '31. Lt„ U.S. Marine Corps, Camp Le Jeune, N. C Chriatiaa, Bakert T„ ex. '46. A/C, NAAC, AA­FCC, Nashville, Tenn. 
auistaaa, Jsha P., '42, Sgt, Hq. Sqdn.. NA­TAF, APO No. 509, c/o P.M.. New York City. Ciiaac. Jakn W., '41. A/S, USNR. Co. 1287. 
USNTS, Great Lakes. 111. 

CIcBMns. Jafea F.. ex. '46. Pfc, ASTP Ttrainee, Cb. C, SCU 3418 See. K. U. of Fla.. Gaines­ville. Fla. 
CkiMas. Ellon E., ex. '47, Pfc.. Station Hospital. SFPE. 1590 Broadway. San Francisco 9, Calif. 
Clilard. Jaiacs H., ex. '47, S2/C, Aviation Ord­nance, Naval Air Tech. Ttag. Center, Bks. 80, Norman. Okla. 
Caad. Bickard J.. '42, Lt , USMCR (Killed in service overseas — October, 1943). Camns. Jahn T., '39. 803 TSS, Bks. 1415. U.S. 
Army Air Force, Sioux Falla^ S. D. Csaadsa. Viaceat J., '43, Pfc, Yale Univeisity, ASTU, U.S. Army. New Haven, Conn. 
Cannaaghtan, Rkkard J., ex. '46, A/C, Class 43­17, Sqdn. lA, A/C DeUehment. CAAF, Chil­dress, Texas. 
Canaan. JaaMS J., ex. '45, A/C. Gronp F. Sqd. 
50. AAFFS. SAACO. San Antonio, Texas. Caaway, WaHaBi C ex. '46, Ca B. 555th Eng:. Hv. Pon. Bn.. Camp White, Ore. Coixaa. Paal J., ex. '43. A/C. AAFCC, SAACC. Sqdn. 109, FHA, San Antonio, Texas. Caacrave, Jahn E.. ex. '47, Sgt, FGTG 326, LVAAF, Las Vegas. Nev. Caacrave. Williaa P., ex. '45, A/C, Student Reeoi­tion Pool, HAAF, Harlingen, Texas. Cotter. LaaicBS P.. '30, L t (jg), USNR. Fureell. Okla. Coafal. Frederkk J., ex. '45, Pfc . Btry D, 46 CA., Camp Pendleton, Va. Cawky. Joka C . ex. '44, A/C. Sqdn. I-«. 44D, AAFPFS, Maxwell Field, Ala. Cax. Jaka E., ex. '43, Lt . Army Air Forte (Killed in action — North European Area. Oct 22. 1943). Cnevy. Thaaus E.. ex. '44. A/C. U.S. Army Air Corps, Maxwell Field. Ala. 
Crasaw Lewis C '35, U.S. Army, OSD, Air Corps Section. Port of Embarkation, Boston lOu Ifass. 
Cronin. John E., ex. '45. ASTU No. 3S71, Co. E. La. State U., Baton Rouge, La. 
Crowe, Edward F., ex. '45, F\-t., Sqdn. 7, Class 43-43. AAFFGS, Las Vegas AAF Field. Las Vegas, Nev. 
Crowley, James G., e.\. '44. Pvt., Co. B, 90th Inf., APO No. 345, Camp Hale. Colo. Coll, Edward F., ex. '45, Seaman in the Mer­chant Marine. Cullen. James J., e-x. '4G, Pvt., 11th TSS, Area 4, Scott Field. III. 
Cnniff, David D., ex. *45. A/C, Aviation Cadet Detachment, Group I. Strother Air Field, Wingfteld, Kans. 

Connincham, WiUiam F., ex. '46. A/C, U.S. Army Air Force, Flight C. Group 21, AAF PS (P)SAACC, San Antonio, Te-xas. 
Curran, Robert T., e-x. '4S, Air Corps, 3rd Trng. Detachment, HAAF. Harlingen. Te.\as. 
Cosick, Francis M., ex. '45, A/C, Navigation Wing. AFPS, Group 24, Sqdn. D. Flight 2, Ellington Field. Texas. 

Deale, Valentine B., '39, Box 244, Men's Dormi­tory, U.S. Na\-y Japanese Language School. University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo. 
Oeegan. Robert C, ex. '46, Camp Barkcley. Texas. 
Oelana, Edward K., ex. '45. Cadet, U.S. Air Force. Sqdn. 31, Group D, AVing 1, AAFPS. FAACC, San Antonio, Texas. 
Delaplane, Harry L., Jr., ex. '46. A/C, Sq. 85, SAAAB, Santa Ana, Calif. Deneen, Paul V., ex. '46, Lt, Gowen Field, Boise, Idaho. 
Dennont, Robert E.. ex. '45. A/S, USNR. (V-12), Hoviard Hall, Room 204, Berea College. Berea. Kv. 
Desnoyere, Harold B., '34, Lt (jg) USNR, 236 03 Hall, Princeton, N. J. 
Dillon, John B., ex. '46, S2/C. Group 2. Bks. 508, Lower Port Service School Section Q6-1, Great liakes. 111. 
Dillon, William E., ex. '45, A/S, AAFCC, SAA­CC, Sqdn. Ill, Flight B 5259, San Antonio, Texas. 
Diltl, Riciiarl C, '43. T/Sgt. U.S. Army, Signal Detachment, Brooklyn Army Base. Brooklyn, 
N. y. Dolce, Russell J., '40. Sgt, in ser\'ice overseas. Donovan, Gerard K., '40. Ensign. USNR. 13th 
Bn. 12-2, NTS. U. of Arizona, Tucson, Ariz. Dooley, John W., e.x. '46, Pfc, Hq. & Hq. Sqd_ 
71st Ser\Mce Group. WAAF. Walterboro, S. C. Doran, Felix, ex. '46. Pvt., U.S. Army. Dougherty, Thomas V., Jr., ex. '45, A/C, Sqd. 
G, Group Xi-44E, Flight IH, AAFPFS, Max­well Field. Okla. Dovey, Mars C, '26. A/S. U.S. Na\->-, Co. 1473, USNTS, Camp Porter, Great Lakes. 111. Drinkard, Edward V., ex. '44. P^-t., Co. A. 2nd Regt., Camp Sibert, Ala. Duffy, Rev. John E., '23, (Prisoner of War — Philippine Island Detention Camp). 
Duffy, Thomas L., ex. '44, A/C. AAFCC. Sqd. D-3, Nashville Army Air Center, Nashville. Tenn. 
Daran, John J., ex. '46. A/C. Group I, Detach­ment. Class 43-18-3. AAFNS, Hondo, Texas. Dunne, Robert L., ex. '46, Pvt.. Co. A, 9th 
Bn., Fort McCldlan, Ala. 

Dunne, William G., Jr., ex. '46. A/C, Sqdn. 37, Flight B, Wing No. 1, Pilot School, AAB, Santa Ana, Calif. 
Ebeifaart. Georse F., ex. '46, A/C. Bks. T-244, AAFPS, lAAF, Independence Kans. Eckhart, Lonis E., ex. '46, Fvt, U.S. Army. Co. 
B. SCU No. 3416, ASTP. Box 11, Athens. Ga. 

Eilers, Bernard J., '40, A/C, Greenwood Army Air Field, Greenwood. Miss. 
Fatieati, Evo D., ex. '45. Pfe, Bks. 893, 315 TSS. Sheppard Field, Texas. • Feferman, David M., '34, 2nd Lt-, Rapid City AAB, Rapid City, S. D. 
FiSe, Romaine M., ex. '43, Sgt, (Killed over Germany, Aug. 15, 1943). Fisher, Beatty H., ex. '46, A/C, Class 44D, Sqdn. Bl., AAFPFS, Ma-xwell Field, Ala. 
Fitzgerald, John J., '42, Ensign, USNK, USN­ATB, Bldg. No. 6, Solomon's Branch, Wash­ington, D. C. 
Fitzpatrick. Frands E., '39, Ensign, CEG, 102 Bn., Camp Parks, Calif. Fitzpatrick, John P., '35, ASTP, University of Illinois, Champaign, 111. Fitzpatrick, Martin J., '42, Pfc., Bard Hall, SO Haven Ave., New York City. 

FiUpatrick, Robert E., '43, A/C, Class 43-16-6, 87th NTG. Hondo Army Air Field, Hondo, Texas. 
Flynn, John E., ex. '43. Pfc. 
Fb-nn, John U , ex. '34. Rt. 2/C. NATTO, Co. C, Bks. 3, Ward Island, Corpus Christi. Texas. Foster, Alfred E., ex. '46. Pfc, Air Cadet, 769 
TSS. Bks. 320, Buckley Field, Denver, Colo. Frcmd, Richard E., ex. '47, A/C, AAFPS, SAA­AC, San Antonio, Texas. 
Gaffncy, Gerald P., ex. '44. Cpl., 463rd MPEG Co., P. of W. Camp, Camp McLean, Texas. Gallagher, James J.. '43, Ensign, USNR, USS 
LST 385, c/o FPO, New York lay. 

Galane, Andrew N., '27, LU, Sig. C. War Dept., Office of Chief Signal Officer, Rm. 2E343a, Pentagon Bldg., Washington, D. C. 
Gardner, Norman D., ex .'47, Pvt, Co. C, 3309 AST Unit, Lehigh U.. Bethlehem. Pa. Cast, Frederick C, '37, Lt (jg) USNR, U.S. 
Naval Air Base, Oakland. Calif. Gearj', Francis J., '37 U.S. Army. Gehres, Robert F., '37. Lt (jg), USNR Med. 
Corps. Gentile, Daniel, ex. '43. Cpl., Co. B. 18th Tk. Bn., APO No. 238. North Camp Polk, La. Glasser, Philip W., '42, Pi-t, USMCR, Pit 754. 8th Bn., Flirris Island, S. C. GodoUei, Paul B., ex. '41, 1307 Eng. Gen. Serv. Regt, EUTC, Camp Claiborne. La. Goetz, Frank H., ex. '31, 390 Inf., Med. Det, APO 98, c/o P.M., Nashville Tenn. Green, Richard D., '42, Ensign, USNR, Navy 93, c/o FPO. New York City. Guy, WiUiam E., Jr., ex. '43. Sgt, Hq. & Hq. Sq., Bomb Dept, AAFSAT. Orlando, Fla. 
Haefncr. Arthur E., ex. '46. Pfe. Co. A. 1546 S.U.. ASTU, W. Va. University, Morgantown, 
W. Va. Hagan, Robert E., '42, Cpl., 1206 M.P. Co. (Avn.), 36th S t A.A. Base. Miami 30, Fla. Hallbers, John M., '35. 2nd Lt, Hdqs., EUTC. Camp Claiborne, La. Haller. Donald F., '43, Pvt. Hq. Det, 52nd Repl. 
Bn., U.S. Army. Halperin. Robert S., ex. '34, Lieut. USNR. Hecht, Robert E., '42, F.O.. South Plains A-A. 
Field, Lubbock, Texas. Hennisan, Thomas A,, '42. Ensign, USNR, USS Leedstown, c/o FPO. N. Y. C. Hoffman, Charles J., '37, U.S. Army, 411th Inf., Personnel Section. Camp Claiborne. La. 
Hogan, Charles C, '37, Ensign. CEC, V(S) USNR, 94th USN, Cons. Batt, Advanced Base Depot, Danisville, R. L 
Hogan, Edward F., '42, Cpl., 345th lighter Sqdn., 3o0th Fighter Gp.. APO 525, c/o PJI., New York City. 
HoUendoner, Francis J., ex. '40. U.S. Army Air Forces. HormberK, William J., '43. Pvt.. Co. B, Bks No. 
2. Med. Serv. Sch., Fort Sam Houston. Texas. 

Jackman, George R., ex. '42. Cpl. (Died in North Africa, Sept. 12. 1943). 
Kane, Raymond A., '39, Co. B, 361st (S.S.) Engr. Regt, Camp Claiborne, La. Kelly, John J., '26, Lt (jg), Bldg. No. 1, Phila­delphia Navy Yard, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Keisten, Paul E.. ex. '41, Army Med. Reserve Corps, Jackson Memorial Hospital. Miami. Fla. 
Kinn. Edward L.. ex. '46, 2nd Lt, Inf.. U.S. Army, Co. D, 8th Bn., IRTC. Fort McCIellan, Ala. 
Knobkck, Arthur L.. ex. '31, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. Koken, Michael R., '33, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. A, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
KaMe, Otto T., '17, Lt, USNR. Sanitary Corps, S t Louis Med. Depot 12th & Spruce Sts.. S t Louis, Mo. 
Knll. Gay J. ,'36, Sgt., Hdqs. Det, 91st Med. Gas Treatment Bn., APO 9030. c/o P.M., New-York City. 
Lapiluia, Jr., Salvatore J., '41. S.U. 3663, 706 
S. Wolcott, Chicago, III. Lareiy. Harry D., '44, Pvt, Co. C. 68th Bn., 14th Regt., 3rd Platoon, Camp Fannin. Texas. Lone, John P., ex. '24. Capt. Marine Corps Air Base Navy No. 156, c/o FPO, San Francisco. 
Lnnsren, John C, '38. 1st Lt. Med. Corps, 313th Med. Det, 79th Inf. Div., APO No. 79, c/o Postmaster, Los Angeles, Calif. 
Maddewidi, Justin E., Jr., ex. '43, U.S. Army. Macee, Thomas J., '32, T/3, Box 387, Gary Hall, S., West Lafayette. Ind. Mahoney. Edward A., Jr., '41, Co. 1554. USNTS, 
Great Lakes, III. Matnda, Joseph J., ex. '37. Pvt.. U.S. Army. McCreedy. Thomas J., '43, Pfc, Co. E. 195th 
Bn., Camp Blanding. Fla. McGovem. James P., '41. S/Sgt., 311th Base Hq., Airmont AAF, Geneva. Nebr. 
McKelvey, Frands D.. '41, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps. Kingman Army Air Field, Box 225, Kingman, Ariz. 
McNnlty, James E.. ex. '41. Mehren, Edward W.. '43. Ass't Planning Officer, Norfolk Navy Yard, Portsmouth, Va. Meyer, Robert J., '34, Colgate U.. Hamilton, 
N. Y. (Navy's War Trng. Serv. Unit). Miller, Edward F., ex. '42. L t (Reported missing in European -theatre). 
Morrissey, Gerald E., '40. Ensign. CEC V(S), USNR. 106th Naval Cons. Bn.. Camp Endi­cott, Davisville, R. I. 
Nacel, Carl J., '39, 39th Sig. Con. Bn., Co. B. Bks. 7, Camp Swift Texas. 
O'Meara, Alfred H-, '40. Midshipman, USNTS, Howard Hall, Notre Dame. Ind. 
Papua. John J., '32, Okla. City Air Service Command. Tilker Army Air Field. Oklahoma aty, Okla. 
Pedrucci. Joseph A.. '39, U.S. Army, Fort Bragg. N .C. Phaneuf, Albert G., '34, Lt, Sig. C. Holabird Signal Depot. Baltimore 19. Md. Phillipoff, James G., '35. Pvt, USMC. Platoon 823, USMC Rd., San Diego 41, Calif. Pick, James W., '35. Capt, Med. Corps, U.S. . Army. Pieters, Charles E., '40. Pvt. USAAF, Miami Beach, Fla. 
Powen, C.S.C, Rev. Maurice E., '33, Lt, Clhap­lain, H. D. Beaufort Inlet, Fort Macon, N. C. Pnblia, Paul F., '41, Sgt, Warner Robins, Air 
Service Command. Warner Robins. Ga. Paed, William E., ex. '37, A/S, USNTS, Great Lakes, III. 
Qainn. Cornelius J.. '43, 240th Military Police Bn.. Co. B. Hyde Park. N. Y. 
Qainn, James J., '36, Ensign. USNR, Morris Hall, 03 , Soldiers Field Station 63, Boston, Mass. 
Renner, William T., ex. '31, A/S, USNR, Co. 1540, USNTS, Great Lakes. III. Reynolds, Edward J.. '18. Lt. Comdr. 

Saboarin. Joieph A., '43, A/S, V-6, USNB, Co. 1699, XISNTS, Great Lakes, III. Scfaaefcr, Francis X., e-x. '38, Pvt, 473rd AAF 
Band, Sioux Falls, S. D. ScfaoonoTcr, John L., '36, Ensign, USNR. Stott, Cathbert J., ex. '24, Sgt. Hq. 317 Troop 
Carrier Group, APO 922, cjo P.M., San Fran­

cisco. Calif. Sferra, Amedeo G., '32, Lt. (je), USNR. Shea, John W., e.x. '43, Cpl. (Died in Asia. Sept 
14, 1943). Sherer. Joseph J., '43, Ensign, USNK, The Nit­tany Lion Inn, Rm. 57, State College, Pa. Sherer, William J., '43, Ensign, USNR, The Nit­tany Lion Inn, Rm. 57, State College, Pa. Shumate, Harold J„ '30, 332nd Engr. Regt, APO 646, c/o F'.M., New York City. Smith, Neal Dndley, ex. '41. 1st Lt, U.S. Army Air Forces (Killed in Battle ot Sicily, July 16, 1943). Sommer, Alphonse A., Jr., e-x. '45, Pvt, Tr. I, 2nd Regt, Bks. 2473, CRTC. Fort Riley, Kans. Suck. John A., '41, 2nd Lt, U.S. Army Air Cttrps, Ellington Field. Texas. Stranc, Archie C, Jr., e-x. '43, Aviation Cadet — Naval Air Corps. (Killed in crash near NTS, Hutchinson, Kans., in July, 1943). Sullivan, Edward J., '42, Sgt., PMGS, Investi­gators 14 E., Fort Custer, Mich. Sullivan, Fred J., e-x. '35, Sp.(M)A/C, U.S. Navy, Co. 728, USNTS, Newport, R. L Supplitt, George L., '43, Ensign, USNR, 113 Savannah Road, Lewes, Del. 
Tobin, John R., Jr., '38, 1st Lt, Med. Corps, 310th Med. Bn., S5th Inf. Div., APO No. 85, Fort Dix, N. J. 
Walker, Dudley R., Jr., e-x. '40, Ensign, USNR. USS LST 168, c/oFPO, San Francisco. Calif. Wilson. Waldo W., '43, Lt, USMO, Camp Elliott 
San Diego, Calif. Worden, John L., e-x. '46, AyC, Enid Army Air Field, Enid, Okla. 
Young. Roger W,, '42, Signal Corps. U.S. Army. 
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 9) we today are in the best position to judge. Up to their time, every experi­ment in popular government on a broad expansive scale had failed. They knew —none better—that a democracy such as they proposed had both limitations and inherent dangers. The principal danger lay in gi'anting too much power to too few people functioning remotely from, the people they rule. Democracy, they argued well, must be quickly sensi­tive to any expression of the popular will. Men can retain their freedom only if those who exercise sovereignty over them are near at hand and easily access­ible. 
"We have been successful in main­taining that form of government for over 150 years, while Europe remained for the most part an armed camp, con­tinually beset with wars and revolutions. We like democracy today more than ever because we have learned to appreciate its tremendous value by contrast with other forms of government. We want to maintain our freedom of speech, our freedom of the press, our freedom of worship, our freedom of initiative, our freedom to work, and we shall go to great lengths to maintain them. An unexcelled public service and a citizenry that is fully aware of its responsibilities foi-m the broad approach to such main­tenance. 

"I hold that an active public opinion concerning public affairs is the best guarantee of honest and effectual govern­ment. 
"There is no sound alternative to an informed public opinion. Our people must realize that government is pri­marily their own concern. It should be their first concern. It cannot be some­thing remote or detached from our daily lives. The ties that bind us with the past and our covenant with the future is the Constitution of the United States. It is a living declaration of faith in man's capacity to govern himself. It is the wisdom of centuries, giving hope to all the world for all future time. It is oux's to have and to hold only because our founding fathers—in simple, noble words—placed imperishably on paper a workable plan of government and im­plemented it with blood and sacrifice. 
"From that day ever onward, it be­came the unending task of all who were to follow to make it function. It is your task as much as mine." 
The country must profit from the hard lessons of war. Governor Kelly asserted later in his address. 
"If we are worthy of the heritage of those who preceded us and if we are conscious of the fact that our all-out effort in the prosecution of war has produced a total of 150 billion dollars worth of goods in a year, then we can­not and will not be content with a peace­time peak of 81 billion dollars," he said. 
"If in the production of these war goods we can find a way to give gainful employment to 56 million of our people, then our people will not be content to revert back to a peacetime idea that 46 million employed is sufficient and that ten million of those now working remain idle. Our industrial areas must never become stagnant pools of jobless work­ers. 
"This is not entirely a government problem. I am happy that industry is not considering it as such and has already taken first steps in a broad ap­proach to a practical solution of these problems. 
"Leaders of industry are already ask-' ing what new products now exist in the laboratory stage that can be placed in production as the war ends. They also seek an answer to the question as to what products they should prepare to revive. 
"In meeting these problems industry and government have their respective roles to play and each should be clearly defined. The partnership between in­dustry and government in the past built a rich free America; that same kind of a partnership can and must build a better world. 
"From that day a century ago when Father Edward Sorin founded this Uni­versity, Notre Dame has never for a moment deviated from the soun d principles that were old when she was founded. Through war and peace and turbulent economic changes of the pass­ing years, she has continued to teach the lessons of devotion to God and coun­try—teaching young men not only how to make a living, but how to live—^teach­ing her sons to be better men, better Americans. 
"Yours is a glorious tradition, you sons of Notre Dame. From these hal­lowed halls you will carry with you through life something that is deeper than mere sentiment or emotionalism. Deeply rooted in your hearts and firmly engrossed upon your minds is the simple truth that man is a creature of God and the maker of his own destiny. Accept the challenge of- the world with hopes raised high. Face the future with clean minds and stout hearts. All that Notre Dame has stood steadfastly for in the past hundred years, all that it will cling to for the century to come and beyond is yours to cherish and perpetuate. It is a noble heritage. May God give you the faith and the strength and the courage to keep its flame alive." 
SEASON'S GREETINGS 
The ALUMNUS echoes the Alnmni Board and the University in extending to all Notre Dame men the sincere greetings of this significant Christmas season. 
Early reports (details in the next issue) indicate that December 5 brought oat large crowds of Notre Dame men for Universal Communion Sunday. The St. Joseph Valley, Twin Cities, Chicago, New York, Cleveland, and Detroit, are among the early Clubs reporting. 
With this "pre-view," there can be no doubt of the richness of the Christ­mas and New Year feasts for Notre Daire men, whether they observe them on battlefield or home front. May the next year bring us all peace! 

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Ursula M. Uttley and John E. DriscoU, 

•32, Brevard, N. C. 
Miss Blary Louise Gagen and Gabriel E' Moran, "32, Youngstown, O. 
Miss Mary Ellen Moscr and Lt. Ralph F. Holler, '34, Cleveland Heights, O. 
Miss Florence Mae McDonnell and Sst. Robert Emmet Stritcfa, Jr., Ml, Chicago. 
Miss Margaret Frances Dempsey and Lt. (jg) Frank Edmund O'Dowd, Jr., '42. Oak Park, III. 
Miss Marion Thompson of Painted Post, N. Y., and Gerald Edward Cosgrove, Jr., '42. South Bend. 
Marriages 
Hiss Julia Ann Besriey and Patrick J. Goggin* Jr., '30, were married in Seattle. Wash., on Nov­13. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Altemose and Lt. ijg} Adam G. Sferra. '32, took place on Oct 17, at New York City. 
The marriage of Miss Leonora Lindsay and Georre Joseph Scfaaefer« '33, took place on Aug. 
14. in Cairo, III. 
Miss Boseroary Louise McCIain and Panl KGdiacl CmllsKluin, '33, were married on Nov. 
17. in Bellevue, O. 
Miss Elizabeth Peters and Capt. James William Pick, *35, were married in Banning. Calif., on Nov. 17. 
The marriage of Miss Frances McGowan and John Patrick Mnlderig, '39. took place on Nov. 
1. in the hog Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Mildred R Carmichael and Lt. John C Staricie, *39. were married on Oct. 17. 
The marriage of Miss Rose Mary Abel and Lt. Georve T. Horn. '40, took place on Sept. 15, at Peoria. III. 
The marriage of Miss Joan Jule Kovacs and Lt. Richard J. Sleffaniak, '40, took place on Oct 9, in Our Lady chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Jane Stanton and Ensign John W. Hayes, '41, were married in Kansas City. Mo., on Nov. 18. 
Miss Geraldinc Frances Wilson and Lt. (jg) Howard J. Kcrth, '41. were married in Bay City, Mich., on Oct. 2. 
Miss Jule Gilligan and Irwin Jt>seph Siiiaffner, '41, were married on Nov. 3. at Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Paul Nichols and Dr. Pan! Kersten, '41. were married on Oct 20. in Coral Gables, Fia. 
Hiss Harjorie O'Connor and Lt. (jg) William 

R. Hawcs, '42. were married on Nov. 4, in In­dianapolis. 
The marriage of Miss Arlene Overroeder and Lt. Edward J. Malone. '41, took place on Oct. 1, at Brooks Pleld. Texas. 
Miss Mardianne Benedict and Lt. (jc) Bfterrin Francis Bagan, *42, were married in Evanston, III., on Oct 6. 
The marriage of Miss Lillian Dentler and William J. Minges, Charleston, W. Va., took place in South Bend, on Oct 23. Michael J. O'Connor. '36, was best man and Laurence Hess, *38, was an usher. 
Miss Cleo Ghema and Roger WiUlam Yoonr* '42, Signal Corps. USA, were married on Aug. 7. 
The marriage of Miss Ann McNally and Cor­nelius Anton Johnson. '43, took place Oct. 9, zn IJOS Angeles. 
Aliss Dorothy Jacoby and Ensign Eagene A. Fehlig, '43, were married in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, on Sept 23. 
The marriage of Miss Beverly McNally and Justin Mackiewich, '43. took place on Oct. 28. in Chicago. 
Miss Geraldine Elizabeth Ryan and Lt. Jaatea Marqaardt Purcell, '43. were married Nov. 6. in Harrison, N. Y. 
Miss Lela Bell Miller and Edward Altcndorf, '44. of West Bend, Wis-, were married on Nov. 13, in the Log Chai>el, Notre Dame. 
Births 
Lt. and Mrs< Jerome F. Fox, '24. announce the birth of a son, Jerome Leo, on Sept 23. 
A son, John Joseph, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John J. Halpin, '27. 
On Sept 3, a daughter. Abigail Mary, was born to Mr. and Mrs- Ridiard L. Halpin, '27. 
On June 5, a son, Robert Lindsay, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Francis J, Wilson, '28, in Pitts­burgh. 
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Scheuer, '28, announce the birth of a son. Paul Rasmnond, on June IS, in Chicago. 
A daughter, Kathleen Mary, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Frank Creadon, *28. in Riverside. HI., on Sept 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Orson Dausman. '29, announce the birth of a son. on Sept 25, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jade Jordan, '32. announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Joanne, on Jan. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. J. Staanton, '32, an­nounce the birth of a son, Harold Francis, on Nov. 9­
Lt. and Mrs. Francis C. Tomasi, '32, are the parents of a son horn in August 
A son, Kevin Kridel. was born on Sept. 23, to Mr. and Mrs. Richard C Carton, '33. 
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Keams, *34, announce the birth of a daughter. Mary Irene, on Oct ID. 
L t and Mrs. Jtihn B. DeWUde, '34, announce the birth of a daughter. Mary Anne, on Sept. I€. in Atlanta. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. Frank W. Honerkamp, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Lou, on April 27. 
A daughter was bom on Nov. 15, to Mr, and Mrs. Daniel J. Yonngerman, *35. in South Bend. 
S/Sgt. and Mrs- James H, McGaire, '37, an­nounce the birth of a son, James Hartnett, on Oct 17, in New Brunswick, N. J. 
On Aug. 19, a son, Daniel Roach. Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Daniel R. Finn, '37. 
Lt Ue) and Mrs. Robert J. Mallen, '38, an­nounce the birth of a son, Michael James, on Oct. 25. 
L t and Mrs. Samne] BorziUeri, '38, announce the birth of a son, on Nov. 21, in South Bend. 
A son. Steven Will, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Clark Reynolds, '38. on Sept 11. at Summit, 
N. J. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Bolz, '39, announce the birth of a son, Robert Charles, on July 24. Daniel Shoui'lin, *14, is the proud grandfather. 
A son. John Ibomas, w-as born to Sgt. and Mrs. Louis A. Radelet, '39, on Nov. 9. 
Lt and Mrs. Robert K. Rodibaa^. '40, an­nounce the birth of a son. David Leonard, on Nov. 3, in Indianapolis. 
A daughter was born to Lt and Mrs. John Cole, '40, on Nov. 1, in South Bend. 

Lt. and Mrs. James W. Plammer^ '40. an­nounce the birth of a ilaughter. Patricia Jane, on Oct. 3. in Zanesville, O. 
Sgt. and Mrs. Anthony C. Heinzen, '41. an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Katherine Eliza­beth, on Sept 29, at Merrill, Wis. 
A son, Gregory Paul, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Stander, '41. on Sept. 26. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. James J. O'Neal, '42. an­nounce the birth of a daughter. 
Deaths 

Henry L. Fcmcding, ex. '96, Dayton. O., died on Nov. 3 in Dayton after an illness of twa weeks. He was the father of the twin sons. Thomas C and John C, both graduated from Notre Dame in 1940 and both now lieutenants in the United States Navy. Two daughters, a brother and a sister also sur^-ive-
Graduated from the University of <^ncinnati law school in 1896. Mr. Femeding practiced law in Dayton until 1909, when he was named judge of the circuit court to fill an unexpired term. When the court of appeals was established in 1910 he was elected to that post and was twice re-elected, serving until 1928 when he retired to private practice. At the time of his death Judge Femeding was secretary of the Dayton and Xenia Railroad Company. 
Judge Femeding was a veteran of the Spanish-American war. He was active in numerous local organizations and civic movements, particularly as a founder of S t Elizabeth Hospital and as head of a committee which organized St. Joseph's Orphans* Home. 
Vincent D. Vaachan, '17, Lafayette. Ind., one of four Vaughan brothers to attend the Univer­sity, died from a heart attack in Lafayette on Nov. 4. He is survived by his brothers Charles li., *14, and James £., ex. '27, also of Iiafayette. IVilliam U. Vaughan. ex. '11. died in 1940, and Edward J. Vaughan died, also from a heart at­tack, on July 11, 1943. 
During World War I, Vint Vaughan was a Kiiights of Columbus secretary in camp service. At the close of the war he and his brother, Char­lie, formed a law partnership which became one of the most prominent in the state. 
Vint was president of the Notre Dame Club of the Wabash Valley and a past grand knight of Lafayette Council of the Knights of Columbus. He had been a member of the Indiana Financial Institutions Commission (state banking commis­sion). 
Jnstin J. **Dad" Holony, *11. Crawfordsville. Ind., brother of Rev. William H. Molony, C.S.C., '07, of Notre Dame, died on Nov. 1 in a Craw­fordsville ho^ital following an operation the day previous. 
One of the brightest Notre Dame basketball stars in his student days. — he played for four years and was the high scorer of the outstand­ing 1910-11 team — Mr. Molony began soon after his graduation to officiate in midwestern college basketball and developed into one of the best known and most competent officials in the country, working as many as 50 games in a season. He carried on at the same time his prac­tice of law in Crawfordsville, retiring from officiating six years ago to devote all his time to the law. 
Father Molony officiated at the funeral Mass in Crawfordsville on Nov. 3. Among the pall­bearers were Robert E. (Pete) Vaughan. director of athletics and head coach at Wabash College, Crawfordsville. who came to Notre Dame with Mr. Molony and was a teammate here, and Bernard Foley, '23. also of Crawfordsville. 
A veteran of AVorld War I, Mr. Molony was prominent in American Legion affairs. He was president of the Montgomery County Bar As­sociation and vice-president of the Citizens National Bank, Crawfordsville. Surviving him besides Father Molony are two sisters. 
James S. CaroUn. ex. '12, New York City, veteran newspaper man and head of the society, drama and obituary copy desk of the New York "Hmes" since 1935. died on Nov. 16 after an illness of two months. 
Mr. Carolan came to Notre Dame from Bad Axe, Mich., attending the University for three years. He later attended the law school of the University of Pennsylvania. In subsequent years he was employed by several Philadelphia papers, by the New York *"nmes," the Brunswick-Balke-Collender Co., Chicago, the New York "Daily News" and. again, by the New York "Hmes." He was a member of the Baseball Writers As­sociation of America. 
Mr. Carolan is sui^ived by his wife, and by a daughter and a sister. Burial was in Philadelphia. 
Sarah H. 0?ifeill, '23. a teacher in the schools of South Bend for more than 40 years, died in her apartment tn South Bend on Nov. 14 after an illness of five weeks. 
Miss O'Neill directed the choir and was organ­ist in St. Patrick's Church. South Bend, for 25 years, and later was organist in Holy Cross Church, South Bend. She attended summer ses­sions at the University to win her degree. 
Surviving Miss O'Neill are her brother. Wil­liam P. O'Neill, '06, of Mishawaka; two sisters. 
six nieces, and two nephews, Ronald S. 0*NdU, '14, Detroit, and Dennis J. O'Neill, '26, Cleve­land. 
Charles F. RosenWrc ex. *32, Fond la Lac, Wis., who spent a year at Notre Dame, died re­cently, according to a note from Lt. James K. Collins, '32. class secretary. 
The "Alumnus" extends sympathy to Charles W., '27. and Donald Martin, '33, upon the death of their father; to Richard, '28. and Edward Phelan, '29, upon the death of their mother; to Rev. John J. Barke, CS.C.> '32, upon the death of his mother; and to Robert LcHenBe, '43, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1890 
p. E. Bailw. '88, Ml Camp, New OvkaUf 
Margaret Gibbons Burke, daughter of PatriA 

E. Barke, '88, was married in New Orleans on Nov. 4 to Alfonso Sabadie y Anabitarte, assist­ant to the consul of Spain in New Orleans, ^ e bride was given in marriage by her father, and her brothers, Bolan and Gibbons, were the ushers. Archbishop Joseph Kummel of New Or­leans officiated. 
lOA A A ^ Robert E. Proctor, 'M , Mansct lYlAmn ' BnUdinv, Elkhart, Ind. 
Msgr. Manrice Griffin, LL.D. '22, Cleveland, one of the country's foremost authorities on hos> pitals, was the author of an article, "Social Se­curity and Health," which was published in "The Ave Maria" of Oct. 9. Msgr. Griffin discussed the Wagner-Murray bill before Congress, which is concerned with federal medical and hospital benefits. 
 Michael L, Moriarty, 8215 St, 1910 Rev. 
Clair Ave., Cleveland. O. 

This from the eminent class secretary. Fattwr Mike: "This is almost a personal salute to Bed Miller whom I pursued about Cleveland during the Notre Dame-Navy week-end. Failure to score resulted in a trip to the New York week-end. There I scoured most of Manhattan. Again I missed the touchdown and failed to convert. Afterwards I thought he might have been doing Fuller brush work for the duPont people, bat why on Army day? And you know I forgot to look in the Bronx or Harlem. . . . For me, the iinest thing of the Army-Notre Dame Bally was the meeting with Dreamy Scanlon, his brother Dyke and Foot RneL In a short space we practi­cally re-negotiated all the old stories about Sorin Hall and some of the rural halls adjacent. They are now properly cooked for a publisher, a printer, and a public." 
It can be said for the aforesaid Mr. Bliller that he appeared in several other parts of the coun­try this fall. Maybe you can guess why. The "Chicago Sun" of Nov- 28 is the "Alumnus'" authority for saying that Harry, the father, saw Creighton. the son, in nine of his 10 games this season, missing only the Northwestern fracas when a Wilmington flu germ got too zealous. 
If the class could at this moment extend its unanimous voice, it would doubtless do so in congratulation to Harry on the magnificent ae­complishments of his boy through those 10 toogfa weeks. The disappointment of that last minote at Great Lakes doesn't take one whit away fran the credit justly due Creighton and the team. 
 J. Kaiwr, 324 FMTA S U Pitt^ 
tatsfc. Fa. 
1912 B. 

Hairy Mtbrnter, 6978 Sheridan Boad. Chicago, asristant superintendent of the lieensa law divi­sion of the state of nUncus, well known swim­mer and Illinois Athletic Club athletev was awarded a bachelor of laws degree Iv John Mar­shall Law School, Chicago, recently. Mr. was once a swimmer in the Olympic games. 
 H. Hayes; €42 TUid Av*., 1914 Fnnk 
Ckda ^sta, CaHf . 

Sid Birder, bead of the Speech DepsrtiaeDt at Notre Dune and teadier of vocal music in the Music Department, is the new grandfather of a lO-pound-phis grandson, bom in Sooth .Bend on Oct. 3 to his daughter, Mrs. Theodore SCdieL Lieutenant Midiel, the father, is on doty with the Army in India. 
As this is written, plans are in the making for another in the series of Gilbert and Sallivan operettas whidi Sid has produced on the campus, with phenomenal success, within the past several years. 
Cnie following story was written by 1st Lt. Charles Mathieu. Jr., of 126 East 73rd Street, New York. N. Y., a Marine Corps public relations officer). 
GENERAL MULCAHY HONORED 
Hnrfa JUitdd. Sd,Bm Island — (MqrcO 

— Bris. GcB. Fiucis P. Makakr. TT^SJCC. cmmmmni^r. New Gnrsta Air Faice, itMd at atteatSaa taday as he waa pmcnte4 llw Iiggfaa of Merit kjr Hajar General Oicar GriawaU. V.SJL, Caauaaadiac tke Octapatim Feico. 
In Ike iaipnaaiTe eereaaay kere. Brie. Gta. Makaky. a aattTe af Backnter. N. T., waa t»m-Beaded ia a ciUtiaB awanM kr Lt. Gtm. IDDaid 
F. HarawB. V.SJL, caaiMiaJiag ceacral af Anar Air Fatcc* in tke Saatk Facile far "ez­ceptlaaaHy awritariaaa caadaet la tke peifatat­aoce af aatitaadiwg lerricca ia tke Saatk Padae Area fraa Jaac It ta Aasaai 8. IMS." 
Brie. Gea. Malcakr caaw adMre vilk tke In t tiaapa tkat laadid aa Benciara. Jaae 3*. Be kad keea akaaid tke C&S . MeCAWLET. wUck waa later i 
Aa eaBBUadcr, New Gcarsia Air Farce, Bris-Gea. Makakjr directed tke aerial nppart cina AaMricaa sraaad traapa clwia» ia aa Ifaada airteU. He alw waa duraed witk tiw aerial defeaie af tlw area and rupenrikk, far twa af tlw kiracat aerial defeata Utt Japaacie air farce erer saCercd ia tke SatMaans area. 
"Bt walked tirekadr airfer cztreaMir kaa­ardaaa' caaditiMU tkraa^Mat tke aperatiaa, airi caatrikated iauacaiarakir ta tkeir lacctn,- reada tke dUtiaa. 
Far aare tkaa a amtk tke Hariae Bcr wiik­

•taad
 caaditiaaa acldaai c^aalled ia wiwfarc. Trapical raias aad caatinaal Jap kaaAiac attada added ta tke £KcaItMe. kat kia 'Hkaiaaik aad ceaiplcte apirit af caaperatimcaa. caaphd witk ilia aawaTcriac easeraen ta perfara a l dnircd 

•liriaai,
 were af iaTalaakle aeriataace ta tke Caauaaader af tke Occapatiaa Farcca." — 


Ta tke aCicer aad aen af kis HMMiad Brik­adier Geaeral Hakakr laid: "Tkia award kdMcs la Tea aa Back aa it daea ta aM — I caaM aercr kare earaed it witkaat jaa.-
1916 
Grarer F. lOIkr, SU WiMaaiia Ave, Badae, Wii. 
Alkcrt C SckBpf, Springiidd, la . Iiaa lieen a partner in Brown. Hay Jk Steplwns for aevaral 
years. This firm can boast of beintr the one with which Abraham Lincoln was connected during his stay in Springfield. AI has a verj- charming wife and two children and is doing all right for himself. 
Rossell H. Downey is in South Bend and is president and owner of the Marquette Lumber Co. (The firm manufactures lumber in Michigan, besides being wholesalers.) Russ was married in 1918 and has three sons. One is an ensign in the Navy, while the other two are at Yale. Russ decided that Notre Dame and South Bend were too close together to send his boys there. For the last seven years Russ has been on the Board of Education in South Bend. 
X VoU, 206 E. Tutt St, South 
Bend, Ind. 
1917 B. 
From Bemie VoU: 
A new milestone was reached Vy a member of the class of '17 when Harry Kelly, governor of Michigan, was awarded an honorarj' degree by the University and gave the Commencement ad­dress the afternoon of October 29. The story is elsewhere in the "Alumnus." 
A recent letter from Dick Daley indicates among other things that he has a son, Diclc.' who will soon be eligible for Notre Dame, and a daughter, Marilyn, who is thinking about St. Mary's. It looks as though the Daley clan is going to carry on in the same traditional manner as many other 'ITers have. 
John Casridy has two boys at Notre Dame and the writer has one. At St. Mary's Carlcton Bdi, Rir Saddey, Leo Vogel, and the writer have daughters in attendance. Doubtless there are others, and I would appreciate knowing who they are. Paal F€>r»rfr addressed the student body at the pep meeting the night before the Georgia Tech game and from subsequent events it looks as though the old Fogarty charm and pep were used to excellent advantage. Johnny Mohardt, who is a major in the Medical Corps in North Africa, wrote a very interesting letter to Danny Hilrartner, and noted therein that he had met Lt. Dan, Jr., there and that the boy was getting along beautifully. 
On a recent trip to Cleveland when entering the Carter Hotel I met an old classmate, Stanley Cofall accompanied by Tom Conley. Stan looks as fit as he ever did and the indications are that life is treating him very well. This was the week before the Navy game and the boys in Cleveland were really looking forward to a great time. 
The class lost one of its best known members in the death of Vint VaoRhan, and weMl all pray for the repose of his soul. Under "Deaths" in this issue, you'll read about his sudden death in Lafayette. Ind. 
Robert O'Callaghan is vice-president of the Gogebic County, Mich., Defense Council, ap­pointed by GoTcrnor Kelly. Vic Lcmmer, '26, Is a member of the county council. 
1918 
Jalin A. Lemmer, 901 Lake Shore Drive, Escanalia> Midi. 
Dicic Dann has now taken over his new post in Chicago as director of public relations for the Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Company and affiliated companies. Before he left Boston, where he was senior member of the law firm of Dunn, Scannell and Roberts and vice-president of the Lumbermen's, he was honored with a sur­prise testimonial in his home, attended by 100 court dignitaries and attorneys. 
 Comm. Clarence W. BmitT, 
U.S.N.R., N.A.S., FranUin Field, 
1919 Lt. 
Frariicin, Va. 
Latest rank nnd address for Dr. John Rabton: Lt. Cmdr. J. F. Ralston. Office o£ Naval Officer Procurement, Keystone Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa. (Hiat address is a couple of months old now). 
 B. Ward, 1012 Black BUc, Los 1920 Leo 
Angeles, Calif. 
Bob O'Hara, in England, has been promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel accoriUng to an official announcement of the Army Air Force Ser\'ice Command. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe. 19 Dorkins Road, Bodi­ester, X. Y. 
From Kid Ashe (in Omaha) : 
A letter from Dan Young indicates he is still with Drj- Dock Associates in Philadelphia. He reports occasional meetings with Ed Bailey of Baltimore; also, that Bill Castellini of Cincin­nati paid a vacation visit to Philadelphia and New York. Dan, who s always very modest about his own performances, says that Bill is in charge of public relations for the Cincinnati Oiamber of Commerce, is secretarj* of the Building and Loan Association of Cincinnati, and holds a teaching position on the faculty of St. Xavier's in Cincinnati. Also to Dan we are indebted for news that Ed Bailey was instrumental in having his firm, L. Eschelman (public relations), rep­resented in the Army ordnance show at Wana­makers, Philadelphia. Lt. CoL D. C Jaduon, 
N. D. engineering dean on leave, had to pass on merit of Ed Bailey's claims for display. 
A welcome note was received from Jade Huether of General Electric, Schenectady, N. Y. 
Charlie Hirsdibnhl of Portland, Ore., came east this fall on a combined business and pleas­ure trip. Charlie and his wife saw the Illinois game at Notre Dame and the Navy game at Cleveland. The Hirschbuhls had visits with the Jerrj- Jones in Dixon, III., Mr. and Mrs. Jade Higgins in Detroit, the Pete Champioita in Cleveland, and Harold and Mrs. HcKee in Chi­cago. Charlie expressed regret in not having sufiicient time to see all of his classmates in the cities visited. Jerry Dixon, Harold HcKce and the writer had luncheon with Hirshy in Chicago subsequent to the Navy game. 
Father Marcel Keliher, pastor of St. Saviour's, Omaha, and editor of "Ihe True Voice," dioce­san weekly published in conjunction with "Our Sunday Visitor," now holds rank of captain as chaplain in the Nebraska state guard. 
1923 
Paol H. Castner, 137 Sonth Art., New-Canaan, Conn. 
DIRECTOR OF SAFETY 
JoMph F. Donaldson, '23. is the new director of safety in Louisville, in charge of both the police and fire departments in Derbyland. 
Joe resigned as sales and advertising manager of the Adler BCanufacturing Company. Sears Roebuck subadiary in Louisville, to accept the city position. He had been in the Sears organization since 1931. 
President of the Notre Dame Club of Louisville. Joe is also president — third term — of the Holy Name Society of Holy Spirit Parish. Louisville. He is the &ther of two daughters and a son. 
Mrs. Dan Lynch wrote from Hammond, Ind., to tell the Alumni Office that Dan is now serv­ing overseas with the American Red Cross. 
Major John Flynn has a new address: Provost Marshal, Lowry Field, Colo, and John wants Paul Castner (class secretary, 'tis said) to start a "round robin" letter to the 1923 men in ser\*ice. "In lieu of homecoming, this would be a fitting 20th anniversary," John writes. 
Boy, page Mr. C, last seen with his sons in and about the Hotel Commodore, N.Y.C. on Nov. 
 F. Hayes, 393 7th Ave.. Room 1515, 
New York City, 
1924 J. 
One - Fittsburgher * takes - care - of - another department: Father Charlie Sheedy. *33, across­th0-rotunda neighbor of the Alumni Office, brought in word that HoKh Boyle had been elected judge of the Orphans* Court in Pitts­burgh. Which reminds the managing editor all of a sudden: Judge Boyle was seen at a distance in the Cafeteria at noon the day of the Seahawk game. Or was he? 
Capt. Jasper Cava sends v.-ord of his arrival in North Africa- His address: HQ. Co.. Sth Repl. Dep.. APO 398. cjo P.M., N.Y.C 
Lt. Jerome F. Fox, USNR, tells of his job and his new son, Jerome Leo, born Sept. 23. Weight 12 pounds, nine ounces- Jerry is in charge of ground training at the U.S. Naval Air Sta­tion. Grosse He. Mich., a primnr>- flight base. 
 P. Hariey, 2085 Brookdale Road. 1925 John 
Toledo, O. 
From John Hurley: 
It has been a long time between drinks, boys —whether it's "Hurley H.,0*' or the stronger 
variety. I had to make trips to the Michigan, Navy and Army games in order to dig up some '25 news. I'm delivering this letter in i>erson at the Iowa Pre-Flight game, so this year of 1943 tops my football attendance since the days of '25. 
Frank Steel of Akron was in Toledo the night before the Michigan game. He looks as young as any of us. Frank is an assistant U.S. attorney in Akron, assistant to Don Miller. 
While at the Navy game I ran. across AI Smnmer and his charming wife. AI is still in the advertising game in Cleveland, having re­cently been made Cleveland manager for the HcCann-Ericksen agency. When you see these Standard Oil "Guarantee Starting" signs, think of AI because that was his idea. AI has five children and is now a "country gentleman," living outside of Cleveland-
Speaking of children. United States District Attorney Don Miller finally "hit the jack pot." The Millers have five girls and along came Don, Jr., and now it begins to look like "there will always be a Miller on the Notre Dame squad." 
Inddentally (if Arautronr allows this men­tioning of non-'25ers) Frank "Pinl^* O'Boyle is back in Toledo. He is with the Ohio Bell Tele­phone here. 
While in New York I heard that Georce Ver­ffara entered the U.S: Na\-y in June. 1942, and is now a lieutenant in the U.S. Naval Air Sta­tion, Deland. Fla. 
I also ran into Father Tom' McAvoy while paying my respects to Bishop John F. O'Hara in New York. Father Tom is now head of the History Department at Notre Dame. Bishop O'Hara honored me by allowing me to be spon­

sor at a private Confirniation of two handsome Robs. They had been baptized at Guadalcanal and were pulling out to sea the following morning. These boys were Douglas Oman and Ed Wyman of Chicago. T\vo more boys to add to my grow­ing list of service correspondence. 
Don Miller just called, on his way through to the Iowa game. Don said they had to call his boy "Don, Jr.," because my brother-in-law, George Hahn, presented him with a blanket the day after his boy was born and on it was "Don, Jr." 
Johii "Red" Kane is the assistant U.S. Attor­ney in Youngstown. Lt. Rex Enright is in fine health, according to Don, and is coaching Geor­gia Pre-Flight. 
Lt. Cmdr. Jim Crowley is in the South Pa­cific and. according to Don. hasn't lost his sense of humor. Jim wrote to his two boys: "Dear Sons—Your Dad just Wiled five Japs today." So now the boys call him "Five a day Pop." Harry Stuhldreher has four boys, Don said. 
Let me hear from the rest of you boys, so we can get in a few lines despite the warnings of OFA and the Dooley-Armstrong combination. 
1926 
victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Ironwood. Mich. 
Vic Lemmer asked Stan Boyle» Art Bidwill, Wally Ceyak. John GalLiRher, Don Halpin, Ike Moes and Art Haley to bust loose with news con­tributions for the Decemlier issue- And shame bet only Haley responded. 
Room 101 (Haley) and Room 127 of the Main Building got together to report that, either jointly or individually, they had seen within the Army game week-end: Jim Gb'nn, Tom Fergu­son, Vic Yawman, Capt. Iz Probst, Father Joe Toomey, Larry Keefe. Dan O'Neill, Jim Dwyer, Doc Gelson. Ed Fallon, Bemie Wingerter and Lt. Rex Enright. USNR. In Cleveland the week before, there were Chuck Mooney and Dr. Bert Coughlin. (Saying which, the aforesaid ask your pardon for those not liste<l herewith). 
Which brings up the unfortunate fact that M^jof Hank Dillon, Denver, and Iz Probst, New Athens, III., were out of the *2G service list published in the October issue. Iz is in the Army Transportation Corps and, at the time of the Army game. was. very happily, stationed in New York City. Hank is (was) with the Army Medical Corps at the 29th General Hospital. Fort George 
G. Meade, Md. 
New service list adds: Lt. (jg) John J. Kelly, USNR. BIdg. No. I. Philadelphia Navy Yard, Philadelphia. Pa.; Mars C. Dovey, in the Na\'y at Great Lakes. III.; Tom Leahy (see below). 
Off the service list: Joe Shea, released from the Army in accordance with the age ruling. Joe is back at the Statler in Deti-oit as promotion man­ager and he welcomed plenty of N.D. citizens there the week-end of the Michigan game in nearby Ann Arbor. 
John Griffin. Chicago, inspired by and in co­operation with James A. Ronan, ditto, broke forth on Thanksgiving Day with a response to "Vic's letter o! Sept. 3, as follows: Capt. John Ryan is living and working in Chicago, having moved his family from Pittsburgh; his address is 1415 W. Thome Ave., Chicago 26, 111. Capt. Tom Leahy (personal physician to the Griffins) is overseas; his address is M.C. Det., Hdq. 263rd Q.M. Dep-. APO 464. c/o P.M.. N.Y.C.; Dr. George Dolmase is in the Air Corps; on a recent furlough he passed through Chicago twice with his wife and two small children and each time had a Griffin convoy through the Loop, 
THANKSGIVING PROCLA­MATION 
Notre Dame generally will be interested in this exemplary Thanksgiving Day proclamation by Governor Harry P. Kelly, *17, of Michigan: * 
**In this year of war, there Is more than ever to be thankfnl for. The repre­sentative gOTemment envisioned by the Pilgrim Fathers expressed in their Bfay­flower compact of 1620. and the nation bailt in 1776 on the principle that every individoal pfissesses God-gtTen. Inalien­able rights as a homan bcinff, stands firm. We yet live in & land of liberty where individual effort buttressed by reverence, faith, industrioasness, honesty and fru­gality will bring its own reward. 
"To homes untouched by the traxedy of war, it is a day for grmtefol prayer. To homes with loved ones in the armed services, it is a time again to beseech Almighty God to watch over those we hold mf>st dear and to give thanks for safeguarding them in the passing year. 
"On this Thanksgiving Day> let as breathe a prayer in gratitude that onr cities have been spared destruction, that our countryside has been blessed again with a bountiful harvest, that we have survived another year of war and that we are now well on the road to victory. 
"Therefore, I, Harry F. Kelly, governor of the state of Michigan, do hereby pro­claim Thursday, November 23. 1943. as Thanksgiving Day in Midiigan. and call upon our people to observe the day in a proper spirit of reverence and gratitude to Almighty God for all the blessings we have received. I ask that the American flag be displayed.*' 

etc.; Father Keith Roche still receives his mail at St. Ann's Rectory. Toluca. 111. 
John Griffin is, and has been since June. 1930, with Cooper. Kanaley & Co., Chicago investment bankers. 
Kathleen Barr thoughtfully sent from Chal­mers. Ind.. copies of letters which her brother, Cpl. Bud, had in recent months written to the family from India and China. In them, he de­scribes feelingly the life of the two countries, the climate, the food and the natives. Bud landed in India last spring, was later sent to China and in October was returned to India, where he suf­fered an attack of malaria. He may be back in this country by the time this appears. 
Mrs. Tino Poggiani, Indianapolis, sent word to Vic that Lt. Tino's latest Navy address is 67th Construction Battalion. Camp Endicott. Davis-ville. R. I. 
1927 
Jo3<ph H. BoUnd, Stition WGN, 444 
N. Mi:hiEan Ave.. ChicatO. III. 

When Mike Swygert, Hammond, Ind., was sworn in on Oct 20 as iudse of tlie U.S. Dis­trict Court for Northern Indiana (se« "Spotlight Alumni," this issue), a Koodly number of Notre Dame lawyers, headed by Thomas F. Konop. dean emeritus of the law school, were present. Amonff them were John Whitman, '30, Notre Dame. Aaron HuKUenard. '22. Ed Doran, '20, Pa«I B«t­ler, '27, Loqie Chapleao, '30, Fred Drosd . '22. and Jim Keatinr, '29. all of South Bend, Tim Galvin, "16, and Bill Travis, "27. of Hammond, Ray Youne, '30, of Gary, and AI Smith, '27, of La Porte. 
LMi> F. Baddey. 4481 lUcArtlnr Blvd.. 
WnhiastoB. D. C. 

1928 
¥nm L M Baddey: 
Gtmtme SMIMMM saved the day with news from Vflieelmg. W. Va., where he is in the retail clothing business. George has been married for six years and has a three-year-old candidate for St. Mary's. He says: 
"Dr. Han FamD, Lieutenant (sg), is sta­tioned in Jaclcsonville, Fla., at the U.S. Navy Examining Board, downtown office. He recently underwent a serious operation. George saw Larry Winserter and his family recently. Wink has talEen over the transportation system in San An­tonio, Texas. George hears from Dr. Dave Sol­omoR in Ebensburg, Pa., regularly. Sy Doatheity of Steubenville is still in metallurgy with Weir-ton Steel. Bemie Stettler stopped in to see George just before Bemie went into the Army. 
"At the Navy game in Cleveland George saw Tom Byrne, Clayton Lcroox, Chaek Rohr, AI Grisanti. (recently elected to the Cleveland city council). Gene MilUf. sUU with Ohio Bell, Cket MK . and Charles H. Walsh of East Liverpool, O., who really cuts a smart figure in his Ma­rine uniform." 
Thanks. George, for your cooperation. 

Frank Creadon's brother-in-law, who is a neighbor of mine, reports that Creadons had their fourth child a few months ago in River­side, 111. 
(Eds. note — Secretary Backley combined the 

w.k. business and pleasure on a midwestern tour — Chicago, Galesburg, Notre Dame, etc — in mid-November. He delivered these notes to the Alumni Office on Nov. 15). 
Pfc. AI Gory'a latest address: Headquarters' APO 33, c/o P.M., San Francisco. Dr. John Vik­taiyn, serving with the Air Force overseas, has been promoted to major. It's Capt. Frank Gami­eri, 0-1693391, Med. Det I07th F.A. Bn., APO 
28. c/o KM., N.Y.C. 
Lt. (Father) Norman Johnson, now chaplain at Buckley Field, near Denver, was hack on the campus. recently to spend a short leave. He was commissioned last February. 
 Joseph P. McNamara. I«4 N. 
Caart HOBSC Rd., Arlinctan, Va. 

1929 Capt 
Lt. John B. SaOivan, Springfield, Mass., and Ensicn Vincent Doilard, '39. Hamlin, N. Y., are (were) members of the naval faculty at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., and are widely admired and respected there according to one of our best eastern scouts. 
Jay Walx, formerly of the South Bend "News-Times," has joined the Washington staff of the New York '"limes" after 20 months with the in­formation bureau of the OPA. Previously, he was assistant city editor of the Washington "Post" Jay still continues his pleasant duty of writing program notes for the South Bend Symphony Orchestra­
 E. Dnke. 40:o N. Broad St.. 

1930 
HaroM 
FU:ade!pUi. Pa. 

From HanU Dake: 
The only fellow I ran into while in New York for the Army game was Coa Carey, who has done right well by himself, having been a judge in upper New York stale for the last six years. He told me his brother-in-law. Tom Lantry, was at the game alsoy but I wasn't fortunate enougji to locate him. How about hearing from you. Tom? Tiai Tmmtr was also reported being seen 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
but he must have kept himself pretty well hid­den. 
Questions about the bip gang of Thirties from the Cleveland prea are always coming up, so I am asking Al Shipacasse to give us a report for the next issue of the "Alumnus." How about it, Al? 
Harry Claric, secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, is by day a sales engineer for the Detroit Edison Co. He resides at 17421 Quincy Ave., Detroit. Ed Lawrence is a contract spe­cialist in the radio division of Western Electric 120 Broadway, N-Y.C. His home is at 148 Center Ave., Secaucus, N. J. 
PROBATE JUDGE AT 35 

F. Wenaell Lensing, '30, Ev­ansville, Ind., who is only 35 years old, has been appointed by Gov­ernor Schricker of Indiana to be jud^e of the Vanderburgh Pro-9 bate Court to succeed the late Judge Albert J. Veneman. 
Wendell has been practicing law in Evansville since his graduation from the Notre Dame College of Law, and is district deputy of the Knights of Columbus. He is the father of a son and daughter. 
Tom HcCabe, "22. secretary of the Chicago Club, sent along with the club news a copy of a recent letter from his brother, Joe, who as a 
' naval lieutenant is in command of a LST some­where in the Pacific Commented Joe- "I had one new experience. We received general absolution and Communion in the middle of the afternoon without any fast or confession. It is surprising the interest in religion that is taken by all with­out reference to sect or creed. I can readily be­lieve that there are no atheists west of the 180th meridian. . . . Every minute has been interesting and a few have been beyond that point. . . . My health is good and my hair is vanishing . . . tell everyone Merry Christmas for me . . , say a prayer for me-" 
1931 
John Bcrvan, 838 E. Colfax Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
From John Berran: 
Congratulations to Coadi Frank Itcahy on his splendid record for 1943. He certainly rates "number-one man" of the class for 1943- His visits throughout the nation on Saturdays were always scenes of informal class reunions and Frank has promised to w*rite a column after the football season. 
Perhaps the greatest informal meeting was held at the Army game last month when mem­bers of the armed forces and civilians were much in evidence- Among those seen about the Com­modore were. Bob Hsssey, the duFont chemist; Ed Rjran* Chicago Weld company executive: Al Toahy, Washington FBI; SgU Ed Klahon, New York police force; John Bnrns, Brooklyn office building manager; Dick Barber, Gotham barris­ter; Ed Cannindum, New York state executive; Pan Halpin, RCA super\'isor of sales; Colman O'Sham^etsy, Connecticut war plant engineer; Art Berccn, Dr. John Gannon, Lt. Paul O'Con­nor, USNR; Lt. <jc) Frank Carideo^ Lt. Hobart Shean, ITSBTR; Lt. (jf) Ed Fahey, Lt. Loa Es­posito, Sfft. Jsdc Carberry, Pvt. Abe Zoss and Set. John Foley. 
Aiding in the Navy game rally at Cleveland were, Tom Conley, Larry Krai, Joe GsTin. Dr. John ''Dolly" Gannon and Clarence J. Kosalc The Northwestern game also provided a meeting place of Chicagoland members. A few of the boys there were Joe Lanerman of Marinette, Wis., Jim Griffin, Henty "Red" O'ConncU* Bfll Chawro, Ed Ryan,. Al Colver, Gil ScaHsnt Lt. (is) Ed Murray, Mart Downey, BUrr Conion, Tom Monahan, Paul Kempter, Ed SnlliTan, Lt. Ted Hnebsdi, Alderman Nidc Bohlinr, Frank McGreal, Mike Kinney and Bill Leahy. 
Perhaps the title of John Football fan num­ber one should go to C. J. Kozak of Cleveland who witnessed every game of the season just past. His unofficial capacity as assistant lines­man was noted by all at the games. He has been doing a fine job with Army Ordnance in Cleve­land. **C.J." has also promised to write a bit for this column in the next issue. 
A letter from Lt. (j?) Tom Ashe tells us that he is on sea duty out of N.Y.C. He has had many visits with Lt. Hobie Shean who is in the Naval Supply Corps- Tom says that Lt. (jr) Ed Fahey, of Minneapolis, finished his course at Fort Schuy­ler and is now on active duty. Lt. BUI Brown has been cited for bravery under fire in the southern Pacific by General MacArthur. Cbngrat­ulations. Bill, and keep up the fine work. Lt. Os) Clarence Dnibin has also been commended for his fine work in the southern Fkcific, and it was through his command that many of the camps for the Marines were established. Lt. (jc) Larry MoUer is on acti\-e duty with the Seabees. Capt. Tom Cannon is now with the Advocate General's Office, Washington, D. C. 
Congratulations to Anstin Boyle who made the jump from private to second lieutenant the bard way in the Army Air Forces. He spent a short time in Cleveland this fall but since then has been in many fields throughout the country. Capt. J€>e Schroeder of the Army Air Corps has been transferred to foreign du^. Jack Cannon is with the Army in San Francisco- Lt. Lsriy Mullins is coordinator of the athletic program at Iowa Pre-FIight school, Iowa City, and served as backfield coach of the Seahaw*ks, so was prob­ably one of the busiest men at the base this past fall. Sgt. Tony Kegowicz has recently returned from foreign duty and is now located at Grinnell College, Iowa. He renewed many old acquaint­ances at the Seahawk game. 
It is now Alderman Al Grisanti of Cleveland. The alderman, with his fiancee, was at the Sea-hawk game. Bill Chawgo has left the service of the go\-ernment and is now business manager of Aurora's leading newspaper. James Keatins is now first assistant to the Northern Indiana dis­trict federal attorney succeeding Judge LaAer 
A. Swygert, *27, who recently held the position. Marty Brill was recently commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps and is on duty at San Diego. Sgt. Tim Benitz is on foreign duty with the army. 
Major Larry O'Leary, M.S. *3I, is with the Army Chemical Warfare Service at Edgewood Arsenal, Md. Lt, Anstin Boyle, 705 Bomb. Sq.. 446th Bomb. Group, Lowry Field, Colo., sent a contribution to the Alumni Fund while he was listening to Notre Dame defeat Michigan. Who said football doesn't pay? 
1932 
Lt. James K. CoUins, 1135 Bfancbestcr Ave., Norfolk. Va. 
From Jim Odlins: 
Father H. W. Heintskill, '36, a lieutenant (jg) in the Chaplain Corps, is stationed at the base here. He told me that Father Hany Ste^auil is with Bishop John F. O'Hara, assisting him in the administrative work of directing the ac­tvities of all the Catholic chaplains of the Armed Forces. He also mentioned that Father HadE Wilson is interviewing prospective mem­bers of the order, and that Father Larry Brocstl is at Columbia in Portland-
Lt. Ed Hchren was ordered from Portsmouth to the Philadelphia Navy Yard on Nov. 1. Lt. Don Ryan is now stationed at the Portsmouth Navy Yard in the welfare office. 
Bob .Lee writes that his draft board is breath­ing hotly on his neck. He is still with Standard Oil, in Chicago doing claim and safety work. His brother, Bfaury, '33, is doing fine with his law practice also in Chicago. 
John Lltcber sent his annual letter, after con­siderable prodding. He is considering taking a commission in the Na\'y if he can get his com­pany, the American Automobile Insurance Co. in Milwaukee, .to stop giving him salary raises to keep him at work. He says that Ike Terry is still farming at Bamboo. Andy McGaan and Oink Dolan are in the service, and that Ro^ Rosenbarr, who was with our class one year and lived in Freshman Hall, died a short time ago of tuberculosis of the bone. 
Lt. Baden Powell is still fighting a hard war with the Navy. ITie last I heard from him he was in Miami at the sub-chaser school and expected to go out soon. He mentioned that Bill Goslin is a lieutenant in the Navy and stationed there. 
I recently received a fine letter from Tommy Tomasi who is now a first lieutenant in the Army Dental Corps at Bryan Field, Texas. He is the head of the dentjil surgery department there* Tommy took his dental studies at Georgetown, finishing in 1936, and has been practicing in Bennington. Vt., since that time. His wife and three small sons are with him in Texas where, he says, he is thoroughly enjoying army life. He sends his best regards to all the class and I am passing it along as this is about the first word from him since we graduated. His address is Station Hospital AAF. Bryan. Texas. 
Lt. Pete Streb writes from the Officers* Club at 12 Arlington St., Boston- He mentioned that Henry Paradis, ex- *32. was the father of an­other son early in September. 
There are a number of other N.D. men In this area and I will always be glad to see any 
THE JONES EXPLOITS 
Major Sal Bontcmpo returned in Sep­tember to Patterson Field, Fairfield. 0-, after a 20.000-miIe air. inspection trip to the European and North African theaters of operation. He went as aide to Maj. Gen. L. T. Miller, chief of the Supply Di­vision of the Air Service Command. Dar­ing the trip the General and Major landed at bases in Iceland, England, Wales. Scot­land, Ireland, Sicily, North African coun­tries. Brazil, the West Indies and British Guiana. 

Along the way, Sal met another *32 citizen. Lt. Col. Charles D. Jones. Says Sal: "Colonel Jones had long tales to tell of his 92 missions as a fighter pilot, hav­ing been brought down twice behind the enemy lines and wounded on each occa­sion. However, in each instance he man­aged to get back across the lines again safely. His tales are positively hair-raising and from everything I could gather and verify he has done and is continuing to do an excellent job. I. personally, felt ex­eremely proud of him." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of them. Father Heintskill said that Dinty Shay was at the Air Station. Since the last issue I've been appointed ofUcer-in-charge of the NOB Sig­nal Tower and can be reached by personal visit (top of Building 143), telephone, teletypewriter, flashing light or flag hoist and will appreciate a call by any of them from alumni in this area. 
1933 
Tiche Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave.. CMcaco, 
m. 

l::t Lt .(Rev.) Maurice E. Powers, 0-532826, chaplain, H. D. Beaufort Inlet. Fort Macon, N. C, writes from his post to ask for regular copies of the "Alumnus" and "Scholastic." 
Father Fbwers was inducted as a chaplain in New York City on Aug. 30 and assigned to Har­vard for training. Since his ordination in 1937, he had been at Holy Cross Seminary, Washing­ton, D. C, for four years and with the Eastern Mission Band at North Easton, Mass., for two years. 
CieorRe E. AllinKham, recently of New York City, is now assistant fleld director of the Amer­ican Red Cross in Australia. Until his Red Cross appointment was made. George was speech in­structor at the College of the CSty of New York, and previously was chairman of the department of speech and drama at Fordham University; speech director for the University Club of Speech Arts; director of speech at Loyola, N.Y.C.; direc­tor of the AVPA theater in White Plains, N. Y., and manager, director and actor in various New England stock companies- Mrs. Allingham is re­maining in N.Y.C. 
IN MEMORY 

In memory of ker late son, Pilot Officer Lionel V. O. Smith, '33, Mrs. L. R. Thomson, EI Paso, Texas, recently presented to Fa­ther Hugh O'Donnell, president of the University, a United States War Bond. Li was killed on Oct. 3, 1942, in an air crash over India. 
Latest address: Lt. Cmdr. William M. Hawkes* VR5, Naval Air Station. Seattle. Wash. 
1934 
Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Brook Manor, Pleasantville, K. Y. 
From Joe Glennon: 
I saw John Venables and Jim Forrest at the Army game; also met their wives. The Venables were on from Cleveland and the Forrests from Bridgeport. Red is with Bob Hamilton's Dumore Company, stationed in New York. Also met Chick Mara, who is with the Legal Aid Society, and Harold Desnoyer, who is doing his part in the Navy. Heard from Jack Devine, who is hold­ing up his end in the building materials busi­ness in Norwalk. Conn. His brother. Bob, is in the Army, at present stationed in Oregon. 
Walt Kennedy deserves praise for the accurate and fine publicity which the Notre Dame football team has been receiving this year. From all re­ports, relations between Notre Dame and the press are Triple-A. 
Latest addresses: Lt. (jc) Robert M. CahiU, Base Radio. Navy 140. Fleet P.O., San Fran­cisco; 2nd Lt. Edward F. Mansfield, OSGRP. Lexington Signal Depot, Avon, Ky.; SjSgU John 
J. Canino, 7th Port Headquarters Ca, T.C.. Army Base, Boston. Mass.; Major Carl D. Hak­art, Med. Detach. 532. EB&S Regt.. APO 503, c/o P3I.. San Francisco; Set. EU J. ShahecB (Abraham), Co. "I," Casual Regt.. EATG, Camp Claiborne. La. Dr. William J. Sheils, Jr., is an interne at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. 
Lt. Robert J. Meyer is at Colgate University, Hamilton, N. Y., as athletic officer for the Navy's War Training Service Unit, having been trans­ferred from a similar position with the Alfred University WTS. Bob coached at Lincoln High School. Jersey City, Bergan Junior College. Brooklyn College and Upsala College before he joined the Navy in 1942. He later coached foot­ball at Chapel Hill, N. C, for 11 months. 
1935 
Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 211S Trcasare St., New Orleans 19, La. 
Ho^, the about-to-be-lost, is now residing at 2118 Treasure St, New Orleans 19, La. He's with the Federal Security Agency, Washington, 
D. C. as social protection representative for Louisiana. And on the road about 75 per cent of the time, covering all the hamlets, camps and stations through the state. 
Now that you know, w-ing him down a few 10-page letters so that he can return to the old groove. 
Capt. Jim MacDevitt is at the C & G School. Fort Leavenworth, Kans. Set. Tony Kakarich, South Bend city court probation officer in the non-war days, is now an investigator for the provost marshal general department. Washing­ton, D. C. Lt. Cmdr. Ray Brodetick is on duty in the Pacific. 
The Alumni Office had a charming letter, 
written Sept. 19. from CpL Walter Brown, Hd. 
22nd Bomb. Group. APO 922. cfo P.M., S.F. 
Walt had been "down under" for 19 months 
and was longing for the "Scholastic." the "Reli­
gious Bulletin" and. of course, for the class of 
'35. He recalled the Brownson Hall days of 1931­
32, and all the Army games he hcd seen. Better 
drop him a note-
Bert Dnnne, *26. wrote that he had seen Lt. 
(Father) Tom Hewitt, who. as an Army chap-
Iain, is stationed at a camp near San Francisco-
Father and his colonel were guests some weeks 
ago at St Joseph's Military Academy, where 
Bert's two boys are students. 
1936 
Joseph F. Mansfield, 34 Fifth St^ PeUtam, N. Y. 
From Joe Mansfield: 
The letters are few. but the Army game week­end here in New York gave us some news of the class. 
First, a letter from Ralph Cardinal, who is, or was, at Camp Chaffee, Ark. Ralph is a sergeant in charge of a reconnaissance section attached to the 14th Armored division, Hq. Co.. 3rd Bn., 47th Armored Regt. You'll remember that Ralph was in the army prior to Pearl Harbor but was discharged. He was re-inducted on Dec. 17 last. When Ralph landed at Chaffee he met Leais Gabriel who is now a major in the Medical Corps. Ralph and Louis spent an evening talking over old times at Louis* home. 
Ralph spent some time in Tulsa with Bafc Siccfried, '37, and met Chariie McNamara. 
Mike Taekley is now a first lieutenant with the Quartermaster Corps, and. when Ralph last heard from him. was in Africa. 
When we last heard from Larry PalkOTic he was at the training station. Sampson. N. Y. He was going through boot training and had been given the task of helping out the Phy Ed in­stmctors. By this time, Larry probably has left that post. 
At the Pennsylvania Hotel after the Army game we saw a nomber of the boys. Jelui Ifenua was there, of coarse, showing his impatience to get going in his training for armed guard doty. John has been stationed in New York sinee the war started and has been more than anxious to get to sea. Together, we made the roonds and met Lt. Cicerce Ball who had been stationed at Camp Batner, N. C. His address is Canncm Co., 309th Inf. AFO 78. George was married to Esther Loo^lin, of Wakefield, Mass., back in 1942 and on July 4 last, became the very prood daddy of a very beautiful dan^ter, Mary Kath­ryn. 
Charlie Clark was also at the Penn, lookinff very sharp in his army uniform. We didn't set a chance to get Charlie's address but perhaps you'll send it along to us one of these days. 
Tom Kecnan was there, as was Tom Femdly. Both are working in war plants in the New York area. Lake ncraan, now a first lieuten­ant in the Marines, reports that he is still sta­tioned in Washington. Lt. Joe Wcisa was in town too. Joe is at Langley Held in ordnance. Father KeDer was around, and we spent 20 min­utes or so tallung over old times in Howard Hall. Lanr O'Cennor, USA, was another N.D.er in the gang. 
We didn't see him. but Jolui Bferan reports that Bin Ellis was around the town for the game. When last we saw him. Bill was in the Air Corps. We were pleasantly surprised to see Jade Marphy who went on to Yale Med after we were graduated. Jack is now chief surgeon at the Gallinger Hospital in Washing­ton and is building up quite a reputation for himself in those parts. We were sorry to learn that Jack's dad had passed away about a year ago. Geerse Ball told us that D«H Eber is at North Carolina Pre-FIight and that Gas Gon­ting is an instructor at the Officers Candidate School for finance at Duke. 
Lt. Jehu DcsaMmi wrote us a note a while back saying that he had been in the big push at Bizerte and was then in Sicily. 
Capt. Bin Ellis, in the Army Air Corps since 1938. visited the campus briefly on Oct 10; he is stationed at Manchester, N. H. Bill had been in Iceland and over Europe as a fighter pilot He is married and has one child. 
Joe MacDeaaU is assistant to the vice-presi­dent. Standard Garment Company, Inc., 1350 Broadway, N.Y.C. 18: He resides at 80 Tenafly Road. Englewood. N. J. 
Major Jade Britten, 0-427699, commander off the 31st Bomb Squadron <H). APO 709, e/o PJL, 
S. F.. on Sept 18 wrote a grand letter to Father Artfiar Hope upon reading in the June "Alum­nus" Father's graduation address of last May. Jack had been through a lot and had seen a lot in the South Pacific and much of it was inquir­ing. Jack at first flew fighters, but transferred to heavy bombers, and was very happy about the change. 
Address for Pvt. TaUas KraaMr: 42012378. B-10-4 (TR 112) FARTC, Fort Bragg. N. C T*M Mcacher has opened an office for the general practice of law at 318 Union Trust BIdff.. Boeb­ester 4, N. Y. 
Lt. Art Chadwidc was the victim of an acd­dentally-inenrred gunshot wound, aceordins to t^Bdal word from the War Department The ac­cident happened "in the North African area." Art's body is buried in the American Cemetery. IVmis. 
This cdditional information came to the "Alumnus" just too late for inclusion with the original story of Art's death on July 21, ap­pearing^ in the October issue. 
 Foley, 910 Hawthorne Road. 

1937 
PftsI 
Gtw w Pointe, Midi. 

Matt Mclncmy was graduated from the Ma­rine Corps OCS as a second lieutenant and, at the latest report, was receiving special training in engineering at Qusntico, Va. Vince Mur­phy is senior interx'iewcr for the U.S. Employ­ment Sen-ice. 1033 Davis St., Evanston, III. Lt. (i(f) Peter G. Cassonc is with the fleet in the Pacific. 
Mrs. Graham sends word from Clarion. Pa., that her son, Charlie, is r.n industrial engineer with Owens-Illinois, Columbus, O., and resides at 580 Selby Blvd., S.. Worthington. O.. and that son Bill is (was) an Army lieutenant at Fort Eustis, Va. Another son. Ed, Ml, is with West­inghouse. Sharon, Pa. 
1938 
Harold A. WiUiams. 4323 Marblchall Rd.. Baltimore, Md. 
From Hal WiUiams: 
Notes scribbled on the back of a three-day pass: First person I bumped into at the Army-Notre Dame Rally at the Hotel Commodore in New York was Pfc Charlie Callahan, who came from Peterson Field. Colorado Springs, Colo., for the game (he overslept and missed it!). Others spotted at the Rally: Tony Sulewski (still single and handsome), who is doing chemical engineering work in New York; Short>- Norris and wife (forgot to ask him what he is doing) ; Chic Gallacher, a lieutenant in the Field Artil­lery, who came up from Fort Bragg, N. C, for the game with his bride of six months, the for­mer Mildred Corcoran (sister of Joe Corcoran* of Brockton, Mass.. who is now a lieutenant in the Navy, stationed in Florida); Mr. and Mrs. Iran Ivancevic (they are now living in Brook­lyn and have a 4 %-months-old daughter, Gail Elizabeth); Mr. and Mrs. Tom Hutchinson; John Ca^'anaash, *37, the old track star, who is now in the army, stationed on Statcn Island; and Pfc- Pat Gorman. Hq. Co. 1303 S.U., Camp Lee, Va. Pat said that Tom Flj-nn, USA, who is now stationed in the vicinity of Baltimore, also was present, but I did not see him. Oh yes, Lt. Luke Tieman, USMC. was there, with wife and child. 
The Penn Bar was crowded Saturday night with these Notre Dame boys: Mr. and Mrs. Bob Leonard (Bob is still working for the duPonts in Delaware) ; Mr. and Mrs. Clark Reynolds (they left their two children at home) ; Lt. (jg) Owen Kane, USNR, -who is now stationed at Han'ard and who has a daughter. Sheila, about a year old; Mr. and Mrs. Hank Leader (Hank *s doing publicity for Curtiss Wright) ; Sgt. Tom Healy and wife (by the time this is published Tom will be overseas with the Air Corps) ; George Howard, up from Washington for the game; Dick MoUer (didn't get a chance to si>eak to him, but heard he has two children) ; Corp. Ed Bartnett, who is stationed in the vicinitj* of Bal­timore ; Capt. and Mrs. Jack Clears* (Jack is now stationed at Camp Breckinridge, Ky.; and. incidentally, he started as a private) ; Pat Gor­man ; J<»e Cole; Delancy Davis, '37; saw Jack Firth at a distance, but didn't get a chance to speak (he is a lieutenant in the Army or Ma­rines) ; Bill GalUn, married, one child, working for his father; Mr. and Mrs. Tom Sheils (Tom is still handling, the Glenn Miller enterprises; on Sept. 29, 1943, Tom Shells, Jr., arrived — 8 pounds 5 ounces. Incidentally, their address is 35-16 7€th Street, Jackson Heights. N. Y. C.) ; 
Frank Prusha, from Chicago (he is still in the meat business, and has a son. Tommy); Mr. and Mrs. Bill Costello (Bill has lost 20 pounds, is working for duPont, has a girl and a boy); Jim Raaf, *39, recently returned from several years in Peru and now a lieutenant (ig) in the USNR; Rass Hunt, who is working for the Chamber of Commerce in his home-town of Woonsocket. R. I.; and Mrs. Gene Vaslett. Mil­dred, who is one of the old guard at the N.D.­Army gatherings, reported that Gene is a lieu­tenant in the Quartermaster Corps and that he had just gone overseas. His address is AFt)— 12490—BP—C-Z, c/o Postmaster, N. Y. Oh yes, I almost forgot, also saw George Bassas, of Bal­timore, for a few moments, and had a nice talk with Vic Mcrcado, who is now working for Co­lumbia University Research. 
Clark Reynolds reported that Bill Robinson and Tom FIjTin were present, but I could not find them. Owen Kane said that Hnb Kircfaman is married and has two daughters; he is work­ing for Douglas on the West Coast. 
Thus, according to my calculations there were 26 of us at the rally, game, or Penn reunion. Not bad, considering how the boys are spread because of the war. And, too, I misssd seeing a few of you, or forgot to make a note of meeting you. If so, my apologies. Any slip or mistake isn't intentional. 
For the boys who missed the game and re­union : The topic of conversation was: "Boy, what a reunion we will have at the first N.D.­Army game after the war!" 
This month we have two outstanding letters: 

From Lt. Mike Crowe, 01578319, Prov. Rhd. No. 2, APO 403 Annex, c/o Postmaster, Shreve­port. La.: 
"Remember George Smith, Jr.7 He's an en­sign and is in the Pacific. Fred llieis is a cap­tain in the Quartermaster Corps, stationed at Jefl'ersonville Q.M. Depot, JefTersonville, Ind. I have no news of Hank Theis. I was at Fort Harrison. Ind., for 16 months as an interviewer. Got my commission at Camp Lee, Va., in the Quartermaster Corps . . . the last two months I have been on maneuvers down here. ^Vhile I was corporal I married June Baker, of Arc::dia, Ind., on May 9. 1942. On Feb. 14, 1943. Michael Lee was born in Phris, Texas. Incidentally, my broth­er, Emmett, is a lieutenant in the Air Corps. He married Miss Monica Drucker of Cincinnati, on May 16. 1942; he now has a son t^vo months old. 
Now a swell letter from Lt. ijg) Tlioauu F. Qutnlan, USNR, ATB. Camp Bradford. UNIT NAN, NOB. Norfolk 11, Va (boy these servica addresses!). Tom says that he has been in or around Norfolk for eight months. Before that he spent four months at the N.D. Midshipman School (January class). In the same group with him were Bob Hargrave *42, and F. J. Hopkini, '41. Both are now in the Southwest Pacific. Now at Norfolk with Tom are Tom Senlzer, '42, and Qnent Storm, '42. Bob Maddodc. '42. also was in Norfolk for a time. Tom Hardart. *38, is in the Mediterranean as an assistant turret officer. . . . Tom's brother. Farrell Qoinlan, who was to graduate in '44, but who ^\*as called with the ERC, is now at Fort Eustis. Farrell, who was Bengal Bouts champion in the 155-pound class for two years, went to the finals of the post boxing tournament. Dr. Frank Hardart, '37, is in the army medical corps in Nebraska. CpL Georre Bclanger, '38, was in California in Au­gust, and Tom Graves, '38, was in Philadelphia as a lieutenant in the QMC in August. . . ." 
Then there is a note from Pfc:. Gcorce McDer­mott, 908 T.G. B.T.C. No. 9, AAFTO, Flight 83G. Miami Beach, Fla. George says that he sub­mitted himself for induction on July 10. 
Had a V-mail note from Nick Lamberto who said he was back in the States in June. . . > Ensiffn Don Hickey is now in Maryland and I hope to see him any day now. . . . Jack Zerbst telephoned me last week; he is now in Mary­land and I expect to see him this week-end. . . . Racer SoUivan wrote recently; doesn't say what he is doing; his address is 1353 Jefferson St., N.W., Washington, D. C. . . . Rev. Anthony M. G<nMS dropped me a card the other day. He in­quired about Jim Blunt (sergeant in the medical corps in North Africa, Father) and Tom Healy (see above). For approximately a year Father Gomes has been stationed at St. John's Rectory, 344 Ck)unty St., New Bedford. Mass. 
And now a fine letter from Johnny Burke, 837 Jndson Ave.. Evanston. III. John writes that he has been with the Commonwealth Edison Com­pany of Chicago since graduation and is now in the Industrial Relations Department. He is the father of John Prendergast. bom Friday, Aug. 13, 1943. John has tried to get in all branches of the service but has been rejected because of his eyes. 
He passes along the following: Scott Reardon, still with the Department of Justice, is now liv­ing in Evanston. Two months ago they gave Ed BCann a send-off as he left for the Na\-y. . • • 1st Lt. Didc Scannell is still single and on his way to becoming a pilot-obsen-er in the Field Artillery. . . . Ed Wrapc is an ensign and prob­ably at the Harvard Business School; he was sta­tioned at the Philadelphia Na\'y Yard. . . . Tom Hullican is a lieutenant (jg) and is travelling about the Pacific Ensign Charlie Macalnso, also from Cleveland, is in the same outfit. "One day." writes John, "Mulligan was sitting on a South Pacific isle being entertained by the natives when they suddenly started singing the 'Victory March.* They had learned the song from a Holy Cross missionary. . . . Lt. Jack Langren was in town recently with his bride; he is now stationed at Carlisle Barracks (Pa.) in the Medical Corps. . . . Nick Lamberto was in Chicago recently. . . . Nick reported that he has seen Hugh Correll who is flying planes in the Air Transport Command. . . . John's kid brother. Norm, who graduated in '40, is in Africa or Italy with the Air Corps. .. . Ed AVrape*s brother. Ed?, '41, is in the same general territory, flying a four-motored bomber. 
Thanks for the dandy and newsy letter, John. Write again. If I'm not mistaken, that's your first. 
Tom Cassidy, *36, was in Baltimore recently, but I did not get to see him. Had dinner with Ed Bailey, vice-president of the Alumni Associa­tion, recently. . . . Jerry Ryan, '39, who was working at Glenn L. Martin's in Baltimore, has enlisted in the Army. . . . That's all except I'd like to hear from Pat StilUsano and Art Selna. 
Major Joe Callahan. Hq. Seventh Army. APO 

758. cfo P.M., N.Y. C writes often and inter­estingly. Joe went into Sicily with (^neral Pat-ton's initial group on July 10­
"We hnd some exciting moments for a while." he commented. 
Joe had recently run into M^jor Charlie OTooZe* of Pittsburgh, one of the numerous Notre Dame O'Tooles of the same spot. And he spoke of his former roommate Banny McCor­midc, who was (is) a lieutenant in the Navy torpedo boats, and of Greg Kelly, an Army bombardier. 
Jalin Thomas is reser\*ations maniiger in 

N.y.C. for TWA. ­
Cadet Capt. Joe Rnetx, at Norman. Okla., is 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 31 
"as near a super-man as anything encountered outside the comic strips." The station paper at Norman rejwrts that at the Del Monte, Calif., Pre-Flight School (where Joe had resigned his ensign's commission in order to learn to fly for the Navy) he had chalked up a 3.87 general aver­age, to be the highest rated student ever gradu­ated from either Del Monte or S t Mary's Pre-Flight. 
In addition, Joe had bettered his physical fit­ness ratings, which were thought by his fellow athletic officers to be near perfect: he had in­creased his push-ups from 32 to 45; his jump reach from 25 to 28 inches, and reduced his speed agility test time from 29 to 28 seconds. He had run the 100-yard dash in 10-7 seconds, and his final pack test score was 97 against his for­mer 85. 
Joe is within one semester of his Ph.D. in anthropology at the University of California. 
Lt. (jg) Bob Bryan is on medical duty with the fleet out of N.Y.C. His wife. Jean Pridmore Bryan, ex of the Alumni-Publications staff, is residing with her parents in South Bend. 
Chock Terry from Findlay, O., sends word of Ensisrn Charlie Macalnso, Cleveland, who for many months past has been flying in the South Pacific and is an executive officer. Charlie had shot down one twin-engine bomber at the time he wrote to Chuck. 
Walt Duncan, oil man from Mt. Vernon, Ill-was in with his father for the Georgia Tech game. Frank Valetieh was promoted to first lieu­tenant at Daniel Field. Augusta, Ga.. where be is (was) on duty with a chemical aviation unit. 
1939 
VUcent W. DeCoaney. 1321 Georsia. Kansas City, Kans. 
From Vince DeCoursey: 
Another couple of months gone and this time much, much more to report than is the usual ease. First. ex-Kansas Citian, Julie Tonsmeire, ensign. USNR, was married to Elizabeth Mary Kelly in Philadelphia late in October. 
Then a forwarded letter from Bill Dooley from star correspondent Capt. Dick O'Melia. First item: reporting birth of Nial Maura, in April at Miami. But. among other things. Chick Randt who has graduated from chief overseer of the movie lots in Los Angeles to a second lieutenant in the army in Florida, is married. Larry Bene­dict, wife and boy, were in Miami for a few 
months while Larry went to Sub Chaser school. 
Frank Habic went to Fort Worth to fly Navy 
transports and Panl Mullen went to the South 
Sens, both first lieutenants in the Marines. Carl 
Fricke is in the Army in California, and mar­
ried. Chub Hall was in the Navy at Miami at 
that time. Dick reports that he is being sta­
tionetl at Cherry Point, N. C. Bob Ortale is, or 
was, in a naval construction school and looking 
forward to a naval commission. Bing Binkowski 
is a landing signalling officer en a ciirrier some­
where. Don O'Melia is still D-A. at Rhinelander 
and doing right well. That, boiled down to bare 
bone, is Dick's letter. 
Then another card from Lou Da Pra, some­where in England. Byron Casey is married, re­ceived M.D. from Chicago U. in March this 
year and is now interning at Illinois Central 
hospital, 5800 Stony Island. Chicago. Is sec­
ond lieutenant in Medical Corps and probably in service around the first of the year. Address: Ist Lt. Thomas J. Schriner, Sth General Hospital. APO 502, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. 
A letter from 1st Lt. Charles Englehart, 3469 Ord. M.M. Co., APO 301. c/o P.M.. San Fran­cisco. Out in Australia, Chick is in charge of a campany making things that won't move to move- Married and has never seen Chick, Jr. Wife was ex-Julie O'Brien, of Chicago. 
Long letter from Fred Sisk, in army in Chi­cago along with Dan Ryan and Gcorse MartiaMr. Reports Gene White is practicing law there. Also that he expects to be married soon. Gene, not Fred, the latter already having taken a charming helpmate named Jean from Ann Arbor, who is, strangely enough, still a Michi­gan rooter. 
A letter from his father stated that it was Lt. Neal P. Cochran, 01535568. Company A. O.T.B.. Camp Sibert. Ala., but expecting to be transferred to somewhere in Texas. Neal is in the chemical warfare service. 
I msde a business trip to Chicago somewhere around the time of the Northwestern game for­tunately enough, and saw Fred Sisk and wife. Dan Ryan, Tom Hosty, George Haithcock (who we hazily remember calling John all afternoon), talked to Dick Anton, who was too busy with job and John. Jr., to come to Chicago from South Bend. John McGnire and a few others. Also good game. 
Personally, am proud to report birth of Thom­as CeCoursey, number two on the road to catch­ing up w*ith Tom Reardon's three. Both of us are staring Uncle Sam in the right eye. That seems to be it for this issue. 
McDERMOTT HONORED 
1st Lt. Edward G. McDermott, *39, Grand Rapids, Mich., has been awarded the Air Medal and the Oak Leaf Cluster for extraor­dinary achievement while flyins as a navigator on anti-submarine patrols in the Caribbean theater. Ed is at a West Indies base of the Antilles Air Command. 

2nd Lt. Dave Harris is with the War Dept., Manpower Board, Section III, 1400 Heart Tower Bldg., Baltimore 2, Md. 
Latest addresses: 1st Lt. Arthur J. Veihocstra, 0-1541545. Med. Dept., 43rd Gen. Hosp.. APO 
477. c/o P.M., N.Y.C ; 1st Lt. Thomas R. Bos­sort, ICWATC, APO S85. c/o P.M.. N.Y.C; 2nd Lt. John E. Walsh, Jr., 395th Bomb Group, Ard­more Army Air Field. Ardmore. Okla. 
John Walsh, a navigator, was commissioned at San Marcos. Texas, in October, and when he wrote, on Nov. 5, he was in second phase OTU at Ardmore. and flying in B-1 s. Jim Gcnaan, John said, has two children nsmed Sheila and Tim, and Jim himself is in the Merchant Ma­rine and has besn in many of the headline ports. He sports a huge red beard "brewed in the Aleutians." 
"Jack Neumann's wedding was, they tell me. something — a great get-together," Walsh con­tinued. . . . "I've seen only one or two N.D. men since I've been in the Army. This sununer I met Panl Sh£cdy in Houston. . . . Paul had some fine things to recount about his brother, Dan* as do all who are familiar with his combat record." 
Joe Pedmcci is in the army — at Fort Bragg. 
N. C, at the latest report At ditto, Lt. EmBctt Crowe was at Sheppard* Field, Texas. 
 Robert G. Sanford. 3934 N. Mary­
land Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 

1940 Lt. 
From Bob Sanford: 
Once again that time comes when "Shorty" must say, "little or no news." Aren't there a few of you who can still write? 
Met a friend of Ted Jtfceis here at (^mp Lee He says that Ted was home from the wars for a short while. Had been operatinK as a flier over in North Africa and had a few Oak Leaves to wear. One woaMn't know it from what we hear from Ted. 
Received my old roomie's address, and it seems that Neal GleasMi is operating in (censored) and his present adflress is 36242701, 454th Engr. Depot Ca, APO 680, c/o P.BI., N.Y.C I know he would like to hear from all of us. 
Jaiuuiy GsTan is now a lieutenant (jg) and can be reached at the following address: fight­ing Sq. No, 12, c/o Fleet PJI., San Francisco. 
Ran into Pat Gorman last week and found that he has been here at Camp Lee for 14 months, working in the Classification Section of the Reception Center. On the side, he takes a hand in running the local USO. Wanted to see him again, but just couldn't get aroxmd to it. He was up to the N.D.-Army game and says he saw a number of the old gang. JtAnny KcIUer is about to finish his medical schooling and will be in uniform soon. 
Received a letter from Johnny Wehster who says that he is "still a flight instructor in Army Air Corps Primary, where, believe you me. we are turning out pilots on almost a mass produc­tion basis. Before long I will have the equivalent of two squadrons representing me in the field." His address is Box 478, Lakeland. Fla. 
Lt. Hank Dowd comes through with a letter. He was at Camp Lee till July. He writes: "When I left the 10th Tmg. Regt. at Lee I was as­signed to Army Supply School at Harvard Busi­ness School and it was a good life for three months. Fellow classmate was James Montedon­ic* who has returned to Schenectady ASF Depot. 
"Only other Army man I met there was Wayne WaU, 1st Lt., Air Force, and happily married. Last advice was that he is at Greens­boro, N. C 
"N.D. Navy men were strong at Harvard as I met EnsiKii WiQis Walker taking communica­tions course. Ensign Robert Stencer and Ensisn Robert Conn^ly, in the Supply Corps, and Lt. <JK) Joe Caamdnciy just in from the West Coast. I am now with 1st Lt. Frank Ci«Uno in Brooklyn," 
T^ank you. Hank, and you are setting the kind of example I wish others would follow. Hank's present address is: ATS, Water Div., 
N.Y. P of E. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
No more news from me and I think that is pretty poor. How about some more news to take care of that big gap? Better write me at my iiome addre^, as I have a habit of moving around. Although I am still at Camp Lee, I have moved three times since you last heard from me. I^t's move those letters. 
Addresses: Lt. (JK) Gerald G. Hocan, VC-1, Fleet P.O., N.Y.C. (Jerry is one of three N.D. Hogan brothers in service — Ensicn Charlie* '37. was at the base depot at Davisville, R. I., and CpL Ed .'42, is with the 345th lighter Squadron. 350th Fighter Group. AFO 525, N.Y.C.) ; Capt. Paal F. Hclbaath, Hq. Eighth Air Force Service Command, Ordnance Section, APO 633. c/o P.H.. 
N.Y.C;
 2nd Lt. Henry D. Callins, 93rd Signal Bn., APO 183. c/o P.M., Los Angeles: Lt. Jaaepli 

E.
 Gare, APO 841, c/o P.M.. New Orleans: Ist Lt. Geerse T. Ham, Hq., 368th Engineers G.S. Rgt., APO 4942. c/o P.M., N.Y.C; Lt. (Jt) H. Charles TWmas, Torpedo Squadron Sixteenth VT-16, e/o Fleet P.O.. San Francisco. 


Taat O'Brien, medically discharged from the Marines, is a law student at the University of Pittsburgh. Natlunicl Bond, Franklin, O., is with the Wright Aeronautical Corp. 2nd Lt- Tmd Hmrver was appointed aide-de-camp to Briff. Gen. John B. Thompson, commanding general of Comhat Command *'B," 7th Armored Division. Fort Benning. Ga. 
WHIT GREGORY DECORATED 
For bis part in the raid on the Ploesti oil fields in Rumania, 1st Lt. Whitney I. Gregory, Jr., '40, Louisville, has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross by the Army Air Force. A squadron nav­igator, Whitney was promoted to his present rank after the Ploesti raid. H e had been a navigation instructor in England for six months before entering combat duty. 

A note from Ensign Jcro' Donovan, 13th Bat­talian. 12-2. NTS, University of Arizona, Tuc­son, Ariz. With Jerry is Ensign Jackie Hayes, *41, a battalion commander, who returned recent­ly from destroyer escort duty. (Jackie, the re­cently married, -WRS a campus visitor the week before that Great Lakes game). Jerrj- had seen Dr. John Fitzgerald, the philosophy prof, now stationed at Camp Crowder, Mo, Fitz had re­cently returned from Pearl Harbor and had re­cently been made a senior grade lieutenant. 
The "Chicago Sunday Tribune" recently car­ried a picture of SeU Bossell Dolce perched afop a -wrecked German fighter plane in Sicily. At long last, there is -word from Joe Dc Franco who, in his work for Consolidated Aircraft, has been in and out of the country continually. But Joe is now settled down temporarily at the Elliott Arms, Apt. 101, 1562 Seventh Ave-, San Diego, Calif. 
 W. Patterson, Jr., 3530 Dar­

1941 
Lt. John 
lington Rd.. Pittsburgh, Pa. 

The class will be glad and proud to hear that its secretary is now Lt. (instead of Sgt.) John 
W. Pstterson. Jr., at the latest report serving somewhere in Italy. John was commissioned in the field, a distinct honor. 
Addresses: Lt. J. T. Tnicman, Hqs. AMEW. ATC. APO 625, c/o P.M., Miami; 1st Lt. A. E. Kercer, 972 Signal Ser\-ice Co., APO 958. cjo P.M., S.F.: Lt. (jg) John V. Lucas. VB 12, c/o Fleet P.O., S.F.; 1st Lt. Clarence J. Ryan, Ca "B," 401st Glider Inf., APO 472. c/o P.M., N.Y.C.; Lt. Robert F. Sngnet, 0-423671, Hqs. 7th Fighter Command, APO 958. c/o P3I., S.F. 
Here is a swell letter from one of the best cor­respondents of the "Alumnus," Ensign Jerry O'Dowd. written in late September: 
"The only Ia\vyer classmate I've seen in some time was Ward Raffcrty with whom I spent a short but fine ti-eek-end at Rye, N. Y., in June. However, I've by chance seen quite a few other 
N.D. men. I met Dr. Bill Murray, '39, on the train as he left work at duPonts on his way home to Elizabeth. N, J., in July. Jack Doyle, '39, is still with U.S. Rubber at Passaic, N. J., and looked fine when I saw him in New York in August. 
"I was assigned to a ship in August and when we stopped at Norfolk we tied up alongside a ship on which Lt. (jr) R«y Kelly, '41, is serving as engineering officer. Also at the Norfolk base I had a good talk with Wade Noda, '42, who had iost returned from Florida way. On a trip back to Norfolk recently the seat next to me was taken by Lt. (jg) Emert who was most familiar with the South Bend scane, having finished at N.D. in '31. 
"Recently at Little Crreek. Va., Ist Lt. Sasn r Neild. '40, and I literally ran into each other and later exchanged a copy of the 'Alumnus,' and the next day at about the same place EnsiKn Ned Holland, '42, and I scratched our respective heads at the coincidence of our meeting. 
"And back in June in Washington I arranged a good old get-together with AI O'Meara, ex. *40, who is now due to be in a midshipman school." 
Capt. Bud Pogliano, of ye Army, came back to the Bend to be married on Oct. 16 but was so busy with the event that he never got around his old publications haunts In the H.B. An "Alumnus" scout reports, however, that, after more than a year in Panama, Bud is now at­tending a school in the U.S., with future where­abouts indefinite. 
AI Kelly was commissioned an ensign at the Naval Air Training Center, Corpus Christi, Texas, on Oct. 13. 1st Lt. Ed HcHagli in late October was with Co. B. 14th Rgt, 4th Bn.. IRTC. Fort McCIellan, Ala. John N. McDonnell was commissioned a second lieutenant at the AAF. San Marcos. Texas, Navigation School in early October. Dolan McKelvy is likewise a sec­ond lieutenant commissioned at Stockfield. Calif., several months ago. He was a pilot at Kingman, Ariz., at the latest report. 
Dave Powers has been promoted to a captaincy in the Marine Corps- Dave enlisted in May, 1941, was sent overseas as a second lieutenant on April 1, 1942, and has seen much south Pacific action, especially in the Guadalcanal area. 
Just too late for the October issue came word from Ensign Tom Reis* father, through Jalm Patterson's father, that Tom was in the Pacific on destroyer escort duty and was serving with Ensign Klike Lambert. Tom had seen Bob Ssc­gan somewhere along the way in the Pacific 
Lt. Art Haddalena, one of the outstanding Na\-y heroes of the war and one of the most suc­cessful young officers, is in command of a boat recently launched on the Pacific coast- Serving under him on the boat are a (jg) lieutenant as executive officer and three ensigns. 
Lt. Homer Ferroun did what few air pilots have done — he sheared off both wings of AT.6 Advance Flying plane, tore the tail assembly loose and dumped a powerful motor on the ground, and lived to tell the tale. In fact, he was so slightly injured that he spent only 10 days in the hospital, and then only to be under observation in case internal injuries developed. 
All this happened last May 31. about 40 miles south of San Antonio, when Homer ran Into a blinding thunderstorm — and into a pine tree atop a mountain, at 161 miles an hour. Tlie plane was so badly damaged that the Army made no effort to salvage it. In an inquiry. Homer was absolved of all blame. 
 WmUm E. Scanlon, PaUic Bck­

1942 pTt. 
tions Office, Ft. Sheridan, ID. 

From Scoop Scanlon: 
A newcomer to the '42 correspondents list is A/S Don Peterson, V-12. USNR, via Northwest­ern University Medical School, Chicago: Don reports: 
"I was married Sept. 18 to Miss Elaine Browne of Escanaba. Mich. You remember her? — she was the fair one who c^me to those dances at school with me. John Kcratcn, ex. *43. and my roommate here at Northwestern, was the best man. and John C Bennett, ex. '43, another classmate, was one of the ushers. 
"We are now under the wing of the U.S. gov­ernment for sure. The Army and Navy have taken oi-er most of the students. I'm in the Navy while most of the other fellows: Leahy, '42, Ben­nett. '43, Sellers, '42. Jim Ford, ex. '43, Jerry Cordes, ex- '43, are in the ASTP here for the Army. Frank Kelly, Father Burke's ex-chauffeur. and Jim Bresette, ex. '43, are also in the Navy. Those are the fellows who are in my class from Notre Dame- TTiere is a raft of Notre Dame men in the freshman class too. By the wa>-. Rod Ma­culre, ex. '42. the boxer de luxe, is a junior here and is now married. 
"I ran into Tom Miller, Creighton's brother. who is in the Midshipman's School, at church the other day- Tom is all set to graduate in a few weeks. He is stationed at Tower Hall. He tells me that Jim McVay, from our class, is also over there, as well as a lot of '43 boys. Art Pope teaches seamanship to the midshipmen there. I run into him e\*er so often as our school is just across the street from the midshipman school. Our school is the medical school, of course. 
*'I see my old roommate. Walt Cordes, got married too. His brother, Jerome, was the best man. Walt is still in Wilmington, Del. Last I heard of Ensign J. Nolan. '42, he was still mess­ing around \\ith the medicos at St. Alban's Naval Hospital­
"Had a letter from Jo* Pepek, the red­head, ex. *42, some time ago. He is about to graduate from Georgeto\\'n Dental School with a 90-pIus average for the four years. He also has a wife." 
The Chicago "New World" of Nov. 14 reported that Ensign Raymond L. Roy, track captain of our class, is now a supply officer somewhere on the Pacific. Last time I saw Roy, he was sta­tioned at Great Lakes. 
From Indianapolis comes a communique from Gevrge UU, the engineer, dated Nov. 7: 
"Last night Bill Tobin, Hike Can- and I got together for a rare meeting. Tobin, now a tech­nician fifth grade in the Army, is stationed at Fort Benjamin Harrison here and has been since June, although we had never been able to get together until last night. 
"I was home for one day about a week ago and there received a letter from Ensign John DmneDr, who was then in Washington, D. C He had just finished training. John started naval training at Notre Dame in February, 1943. He reported he met Jchn Costs and Larry Kelly of our class." 
In New York for the Army game; Tom Powers and Paal Neville collaborated on one postcard to write that the Nov. 6 week-end at New York's Commodore Hotel lobby looked like the Oliver with all the Notre Darners around-
Faithful law chronicleer, Mrs. Lora Lashbrook of Dean Clarence Manion's College of Law, has this to add: 
"Jordan Han d is married to Marjorie Hosin­sld, sister of 'Big Bill,' Roc Hontefna has been disdiarged from the Army and is now located in Chicago. Jiai Nen is now assigned to the Army overseas and is attached to Gen. Douglas Mac­Arthur's staff in Australia. Jerry O'Dowd has been transferred from his post in the Navy De­
partment in Washingtcn and his address is now in care of the Fleet P.O., New York. 
"Lt. Alex ChoIU is in Sicily as an officer in the Allied Military Government of Ocupied Terri­tory Outfit, lit Lt. Jcrfin Verdonk has been rec­ommended for advancement to captain in the FVovost Marshal's division of the Army and ex­pects to be sent overseas soon. Ensicn Gerard Fcency was in to see us on Nov. while on leave from the Alaska area. 
"Pvt. Bernard Graincy is studying Chinese at Stanford University and reports that he will soon he equipped for postwar laundry service. Ensisn Paol Kashmer is somewhere in the fight­ing zone of the European war. .His address is Navy P.O. 93, New York. Pvt. Bill Spanfler is now in the military government school at Fort Custer, Mich. Midshipmen James McVay and John Baty will graduate from the school at Tower Hall, Evanston, in December. Lt. J> J-Barr is on duty in the South Pacific and his new address is: Co. F, 2nd Bn.. 2nd Marines, Fleet P.O., San Francisco, Calif. 
"Ensign T. P. Freridts is on duty in the At­lantic Bill Hogan is stationed with Co. B. 8Ist Infantry Training Bn. at Camp Roberts, Calif-Lt. Bill Hosinski, of the Army Air Corps, vis­ited us while on leave from the Air Base at Al­buauerque. N. M. Ensign Cecil Jordan is now stationed at Norfolk. Va. Ensign Mervin Bagan was married recently in Chicago. He has also been assigned to the Atlantic Fleet. 
"Lonis Anderson is being admitted to the In­diana bar in November. Ensign J. J. Miller is in the South Pacific. Lt. and Mrs. John E. Fin­nigan, USMC* were visitors to the law school and attended the Illinois game in late October." 
Mrs. Lashbrook added a note saying the file of addresses of lawyers in the service is avail­able to any interested person. 
In a letter dated Oct. 20, our old sports buddy. Bill Reynolds, reported: 
"I haven't heard from Doc Cooney since I last wrote you. I have heard from Bill Boss — he's in V-12 — graduates around the first. Jack Fogarty. *43, is stationed about 200 miles away from my base here at Camp McCain. MissL Did you know Jack Woclfle, the humor boy of the 'Scholastic.* is at Camp Croft, S. C.. where they have a Notre Dame club. He was at home in Asheville, N. C, for a Sunday some time ago and the church members invited them up. . . . Woelfle was one of four Mom took. 
I'm on night guard now and by the time I finish this I'll have to post my relief. If there are no calls for the 'corporal of the guard,' then I'm going to write one of my sisters. Well, the Irish seem to be pretty good. I'm going to try to get a three-day pass for either the Seahawk or Northwestern game. Maybe we can get to­gether. I got a card from Bill Bogan the other day — he's a lieutenant in the Medics in Califor­nia.. Well. Scoop, it's time to post the guard, so it's so long for now." 
That may have been the last letter Bill Rey­nolds, one of the finest journalist prospects of our era, ever wrote. Bill was accidentally killed Oct. 20 (the same date) when the truck in which he was riding turned over. He was on his way to rejoin his battery on a field problem when the accident occurred. Lt. Willard D. Dickerson of the 912th F.A. Bn., Reynolds' outfit, wrote from Camp McCain, Miss. 
Steve Joxwik suffered a broken rib in the re­cent Marquette game hut he has finished with a flash. He punched across for all the scoring in the 12-0 Great Lakes victory over Camp Grant. 
Remember Ross Jandoli, former foreign cor­respondent for "Time Magazine" and INS? He is currently the reporter, publisher, and delivery hoy of the daily Fort Monmouth, N. J., "TodMs's War News," an authentic analysis and summary of the developments of the World-At-War. Jan­doli. since leaving Notre Dame, was city editor of the San Juan, Puerto Rico, "World Journal." largest English-written daily in the West In­dies: was at one time instructor in journalism at the University of Puerto Rico and received a Master of Science degree in Journalism from Co­lumbia University. He is a private, first class. 
From Camp Croft. S. C, comes this communi­que from John Lyndi: 
"Don't let my hospital address scare you be­cause I'll be 'back on duty any day now. On Sept. 6 I entered the hospital with a broken toe. This summer there were some 30 or 40 Notre Dame men in camp, but most have gone other places since. We had a Notre Dame club for a time, but that broke up when the boys xnoved out. Jack (The Week) Woelfle is still here. Yes­terday he and I visited at Jimmy Crowley*a near Spartanburg, S. G. Jim is in the ski troops in Colorado and all N.D. boys are welcome at the Crowley home. Likewise the family of Jack and Lyle Joyce live here and are heritable to Notre Darners in particular. 
"I just learned a week ago of Veet Cappcllo'a death in Sicily. Lt. CoL R. Otto Probst was at Mass in the hospital yesterday and I had a chance to talk to him." 
While visiti.7g at the Signal Corps office here at Fort Sheridan the other day, one of the WACs on duty there, Mildred Jaeger, asked if I "knew" her husband, first sergeant, John Ber­gan, of Paterson, N. J., who is located at Camp Santa Anita, Calif., with an ordnance outfit. Well, this ought to be worth an extra three-day pass for Jaeger, eh Bergan? 
According to the latest reports coming from Harry Stuhldreher's headquarters at Madison, Wis.. Jf>e Kecnan, talented reserve and interhall gridder of our era, has been elected honorary captain of the Wisconsin football season just completed. . . . Keenan also got the Badger squad's vote as the team's most valuable player award. 
So long for now, but IF ITS NEWS. WRITE SCOOP! 
Addresses: SKt. Julian Walters, 972 Signal Senice Co.. APO 958. c/o P.M., S.F.: Eniisn Jolui J. Carrey, NAF. Box BB. Navy 335. OP 
23. Fleet P.O.. N.Y.C. John is in cliarge of com­municitions at a South Atlantic naval air base. 
Maurice Landers u-ns commissioned an ensign at the Naval Air Training Center, Corpus Christi. Texas, on Oct. 27. A note from Eighth Air Force Fighter Station in England says that Cpl. Anthony Donadio is becoming widely known abroad as tenor soloist with the Airmen's Chor­us, a male choral group. Ugo Rossi is an archi­tectural draftsman with Consolidated-Vultee in San Diego. He resides at 3845 Imperial Ave. there. 
John F. Allen was commissioned in the Army Air Corps at Foster Field, Texas, on Oct. 1. 

Lt, D. E. Hilgartner, H.A.C is now com­manding officer of the detachment of patients for the 46th General Hospital Unit in North Africa. He recently met Major John H. Hokaidt. '22, > surgeon with the 12th General Hospital Unit. lo­cated in the same area. Dan's address is APO 
600. 46th General Hospital Unit, c/o PJi.. N.Y.C 
 BiwaidC An ^ DMnit. 
1943 Euin '. ITa 
Addresses: Set. jMCfh F. Haa,, 479th Boodi Sqdn., 336th Bomb Group, Air Base, Lake Charles, La.: Pvt. NcO (Mum 240th U.T. Bn.. Co., Hyde Fark. N. Y.: Pte. ViMat X Ca*. 
•dxa. Co. "F, " Yale University ASTU, New-Haven, CiHin.: CBL WilUaai C Maaihead. 7th Army Hq. Finance Office, AFO 758. e/o F.K., 
N.Y.C: S/Scl^ ABett A. Maaten, Ved. Sept. 
Hq. * Hq. Sq.. 323rd Air Service, AFO T8C. c/o F.If.. N.Y.C: A/C Frederic O. Evaa, 1509­5915. CI. 44-F, Grp. G, Sqdn. 63. AAFPS (Fik>t), SAACC, San Antonio, Texas. 
On a trip to the campus in October, Bak Kaipen reported that he is traffic representative for Braniff Airways in Chicago, with oflSeea in the Palmer House. Vetaan HcAnDe. aervinc as a training instructor at Fort Biley, Eans., has been promoted to first lieutenant. Cayt. WQHam 
J. McKeam has been assigned as a staff-pilot at the Alexandria Army Air Base, Alexandria. La. Bill served for 10 months in England, where he was awarded the Air Medal with three clna­ters and the Distinguished Flying Cross. 
1st Lt. Gcarse Bartaska. bombardier of a 
HOME WITH DECORATIONS 
Lt. Joseph F. Campasna, ax. '43, Berwyn, lU., cama homa to his wife and his brand new son in November. And Joe, the Teter­an of three campugns — Africa, Sicily and Italy -^ and 60 mis­sions, was wearing the Air Medal with clusters and was soon to wear the Distinsuiahed Flying Cross. The Medal was a remem­brance of the day when his sqaad­ron sank two destroyers and a cmiser in a raid on Messina. 
Flying Fortress in the European theater, was slightly wounded on Sept. 9 according to an of­ficial message to his wife in South Bend. 
Bab LeMense, though transferred to the Air Corps, was at the latest report still at Camp Roberts. Calif., "awaiting shipment" and becom­ing "one of the most 'basiced' soldiers in the Army." Bob was back home for the funeral of his father, who died on June 2. 
Le Mense wrote further (on Oct. 24): "Dan Downey is here — due to leave soon. So also is Jiaa Caapbeil — with Downey. Lew Saith is here — out on bivouac with the 78th Inf. Trg. Bn. Read in the 'Alumnus' the other day that Hank Dahaa has been in another company ("B") of my present outfit, the 766tli. Just saw Hank a few minutes the other day. Tony GirolaaU was a corporal in my original ootfit, the 89th, the last I heard. Haven't seen him. however, for months. 
"Spina is on the classification staff of the 6Sth Repl. Bn. here at Roberts. I see him oceasonally. There are several other fellows whom I didn't know at N.D. .. . My ex-roomie, Frank Haley. was at Courtland, Ala., air base the last I heard. As for the old cronies, Ja 4 paalavy. Art Ktat­ins and Hcrk Bcdter — I could use some maSl from them. Don't know where they are. Don­lavy was in Minneapolis the last time I wrote to him." 
Pilot Didc Catter was commissioned a seeoad lieutenant by the AAF at Ellington Held. Ttaots. on Oct. 1. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
From Ed Roney: 

Well, here we are, si)ending our last few hours in Florida. Ensifni Jim Girard and I fly out of the U.S.A. tonight and we won't he back for a good, lone time, I feel certain. 
I'm all jiacked, so are all my notes. From here on in, it's all memorj-. 
First, I want to take care of a guy that I missed last edition — Pvt. Jack Griffin. Seems he ran into Ensign Chuck Kane shortly after hitting Miami Beach, and Chuck told him where we all were. Jack and I had a couple of drinks and agreed to meet the following week. He never showed up so I presume he moved out. He had some very interesting experiences with the field artillery and had just swung over to the Air Corps. 
EnsifEit Bill Johnson came down for sub-chaser training about a month ago and we've had some pretty good times. Ensign Ed Powers came down about a week ago for the same thing. Bill was at school for midshipmen training and Ed was last up at Penn State for Diesel training. He says Ensign Fred Keller was there when he left-
After waiting for orders for a month, the Navy found they could t-pare me for nine days and in that time I managed to get home and down to school to see that team of ours play Illinois. At Mass Sunday morning, you could hear the groan of the crowd as Father Craddick announced the death of good old Veet Cappello in Sicily. That was only the first bad news of the week-end for when I got home again I found out that Lieutenant Ferguson, ex. '43, of the Naval Air Corps, had had an accident on active duty somewhere in the Pacific and as a result had lost his eyesight-I don't know how perma­nent this loss is: there was some hope in the fact that he had also suffered a bad concussion which might have caused it. 
Then, Jim Girard received a letter saying that Bill Be}-nDlds had been killed. This last month 
•was not a happy one for us. May I take this op­portunity, upon behalf of the class and myself, of extending our deepest sympathy to the fami­lies of these three classmates. We shall all re­member them in our prayers. 
Ensign Ed Hickey was on the U-S-S. President Adams, a troopship, and is now on some other duty. A letter from Cpl. Stan Pyrit.i's mother tells me that he is in Sicily. Ensign Bob Walsh left over a month ago for gunboat duty in the Pacific. 
At St. Mary's. I saw Jean AVj-nant who said that Blair McGowan was home on furlough shortly before I was and was returning to the University of Maryland. Also in South Bend I sav.- Pvt. Ed Cummings and liis fiancee; Jack Jackie and Frank King. Ed was home for the week-end, Jack was to graduate the next week in engineering, and Frank came in for the game from Tower Hall midshipmen's school. Jim Byrne is also there. I hear. 
Another letter arrived from Ensign Pete Mor­itz in North Africa, etc. He likes LST and sees Ensigns Lonis Kurtz^ Hank Kane. Gail Fitch, Fred Gore, and some others quite often. 
Ensign Ed Powers came down here packed w'ith news. Says Ensign Fred Keller is at Penn State on his way down here to sub-chasers. Tom Dorc. ex. '43, is at Northwestern Med School, as is Leich Sullivan. Frank Kasper is at New Orleans in Army railroad engineering. Zeke Woods and Al Oliver are at Jefferson Barracks. Ensign Bbrk Pfaller is on a mine sweeper in the Pacific. 
A letter from Fred (Beaver) Christman says this: ". . . into the Army in February with Bill 0*N'eiI, Jay Gibson and Bill MoorehcBd, at Fort Hayes. .. . I got my corporal's strijies and at present am a chief clerk at the Clerk specialized school. Here I do all the stencil work, typing of schedules, grading of tests, etc. A few weeks ago I received a letter requesting my transfer to the statistical unit, composed of statisticians and ac­countants. I'm now trj'ing to get into it. 
"Paul Malloj- is now a cadre, corporal, and is a drill instructor training infantry- Ed Hanrm­han was here taking basic, but I imagine he is gone now as I haven't seen him in some time. I hear from Jim Ponisatte, who is now at Fort Bragg" 
Thanks, Fred. I see your address is: 1st Train­ing Regiment, CRTC, Barracks 2054-T, Fort Riley, Kans. 
Don Degnan writes, "I've kind of lost contact with school since I*ve teen in the Army, but last month I was given a Notre Dame 'Alumnus* by Jack Tallett, whom I met in Nashville. Tenn., and it was really great to read about the fellows I was so close to at one time. 
"At Nashville classification center I ran into future pilots Johnny Bosak. Paul Phieffer, Jay Marline, and Bill Carey who are in my squadron here. Also Bombardier Bill Earley and Navigator Jack Tallett. Here at Maxwell I've met Stn Murphy and Russ Ashbangh so far." 
Another good man who remembered to write. Don's cddress is: Sqdn. G. Group V, Flight 3, Class 44F, AAFPFS, (Pilot), Max-well Field. Ala. 
Ibis letter is now being finished down here in South America. That's all Jim Girard and I are allowed to say. We had a wonderful plane ride down and the biggest thrill was listening to part of the N.D.-Northwestern game while flying over the Caribbean. We had an education in three different kinds of money while on the way down and now are trying to conquer completely one language and money. 
A fellow just arrived down here who says that the Shcrcr twins ere now in Diesel school at Fenn State. J. J. Becker is assigned to a new DE and should be on the high seas bsfor3 many months have passed. 
For the first time since we went on active duty, there isn't one Notre Dame man, to our knowledge, in the vicinity. But we'll give a royal welcome to any and all late comers. 
Our contributions to the Second Annual Fund started off with a bang with almost a third of our Inst year's contributors listed the first month. If we all get behind it, there is no reason why our class can't be the first with a perfect 100 per cent record. There isn't anyone that can't spare a buck and very few who can't let go of five. If we could even approach a perfect record for contributions, our first five-year reunion, sometime after the duration, would be the big­gest and best in the history of the school. 
1944 and Later 

Came this elegant letter on Oct. 10 from PTI . Dave. Condon, Hq. Co.. Reception Center, 1852d Unit, 8th SC, Fort Bliss, Texas: 
My old room-mate Frank Kent is holding down all University jobs but that of Night Watchman for St. Ed's, John "Blade BUc" Mc-Crowan says: "Kent must l-e trying to retire young. Every place I go to buy something Kent is there to sell it to me." Frank himself writes frequently. 
McGowan also said that D:!nny 0*Ncil was either in the Navy or the Marines, and that John Baroni was in the Navy. 
By the time this is written the old buddy. Bill Brown, will probably have completed the first part of his ambition to be a pilot in the N.ival Air Force. He is at Greencastle. Ind., but expects to te sent to Ogden. Utah, soon. Bill says that it will seem funny to be back in school after the war when most of our buddies will have de­parted via the V-12 program. Well, maybe Den­niston will be back, and we can again pester him. 
Jim White wrote that Jack Nolan was with the military police down at Fort Breckenridge, Ky. Jim said that he hadn't heard from Luke Higgins. (Luke owes me a letter) but he said that Gerry Cowhig was in Virginia. 
Ronald Carter writes from Fort Riley, Kans., as a horse marine post. In one of his earlier let­ters he mentioned that Al Sommer, among others, was at Riley. Sam Adclo last wrote from Camp Maxey, Texas. He mentioned that J02 Ryan was there with him. 
I hnd a recent letter from Di;k "Sleepy" Mc-Hngh, May, 1942, who is still on his farm at Manhattan, 111. He asked about Bill Rempe. The last word from Rempe was a "hello" he gave me on a card he sent to Bill Brown. 
Informed feminine circles tell me that Tom V. Dougherty is at Montgomery. Ala. Dick Burns, the last tims he wrote, was very happy as a medical student at Loyola University in Chi­cago. 
Jim Horgan landed at Camp Fannin. Texas, and his last letter said that the Notre Dame boys there had had a Communion-breakfast. Jim said that Cieorge Schwartz was at Ellington Held, Texas. 
It is Cpl. Danny Gentile nov.-. Den's corre­spondence, after an absence of three months, arrived today from Camp Polk. La. He says he loves it, and six weeks ago. while on furlough, stopped at N.D. to see old buddies Cy Kelly and Jim Kelly of the KOTC. 
I had a card from Jim Daskaloff, who is at Arkansas State College, Jonesboro. Ark. 
Pvt. Ted Weber was at an "undisclosed camp on the West Coast" when he wrote in late No­vember. With him were Gene Slevin, Lyie Joyce and Don Birren. Ted had had a seven-day fur* lough and had spent practically all of it back home in Ypsilanti. reporting to Fort Ord. Calif., on Nov. 10 for transfer to another camp. Al Sommer was to have bean home from Fort Riley at the same time but didn't make it Weber, like the FViblications Office, had heard from Pvt. John 
L. Dennislon, 15107080, Co. 6. 2nd Bn.. 253 Inf., 63rd Div., APO 410, Camp Vcn Dorn. Miss. 
Denniston knew of the following other N.D. men at Camp Van Dorn: J. H. Johnston, ex. *45. Thomas Eagan, ex. *4n, and Bi'l McKec, '34, Moose Kraase's old roommate. And he had news of: John Deegan, at M.I.T.: Joe Hannon. at Yale in the medical ASTP; Tom Ward and George Bariscillo, both at Stanford; and Ed Doyle, Jim Downey, ex. '45, Ken Brown and Jim Casey, all at Camp McCain, Miss. 
On Oct 24, Pvt. Johnny L>-nch of the broken leg division, Camp Croft, S. C, was recovering, having shed his cast, crutches, extra steaks, etc. Lynch surmised that Jack Woelflc was away to the far places, having finished maneuvers and had the meaningful short furlough. Ed Cashman was at Fort Riley. Kans., Lynch reported, and Charlie Golden at Princeton. 
Paal Dehmer is at the basic AAF Pilot School. Courtland, Ala. Geriy Cowhig, according to a mid-November report to the Alumni Office, w.is on maneuvers with the 170th Med. Bn., 430th Collecting Co., APO 403, c/o P.M., Shreveport 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
SPECIAL CLASS NEWS 

Newark. N. J. (Special to the Alumni Associa­tion of the University of Notre Dame). — Notre Dame men. whose assignment to the War De­partment Office of Dependency Benefits, an activ­ity of the Army Service Forces, was announced last May by BrJB. Gen. H. N. Gilbert. USA. Director, have responded to the request of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame for news of their activities. 
1st Lt. Peter J. Connelly. Jr., '33. and 1st Lt. Edward R. Alexander. '41, are working together in the Authorizations Branch of the Processing Division, where more than 3,000,000 family al­lowances have been authorized for soldiers' depen­dents. Lt. Connelly reports: 
"At Notre Dame, I was a member of one of the last classes to have been edified by Father 'Pop' Farlej-, King of Sorin Hall, where Em De Clerck. GinsburK Lottes, Mike Bonrick, Peanai* Hunter, et al., held sway. Incidentally. I saw-Mike Shields of the same 'subway gang* in front of our building here in Newark. 
"In my military travels. I've been looking for Hemic Lenahan, Rabbi Lynch, Ed Vyzral, Top­coat Kennedy, but have met none of them." 
"No nostalgia or sob stuff, but my first plan­ning after the war will be done with one eye on the first reunion back at school." 
Lt. Alexander says, "I was graduated in June 1941, with an A.B. degree, major subject — Pol­itics. Mere mention of that subject brings to mind the powerful discussions of international affairs that pervaded the classes of Doctors Gor­ian and Hermens. The many and swift changes in international relations since then most cer­tainly have provided rich subject matter. 
"Was stationed for some time at Fort Dix. 
N. J., along with Joe Ratigan. '36. Met Tom Mills, '42, about a year ago when he was passing through Dix. Saw Notre Dame's Father Mooney during a three month's stay at Fort Washington. Md. 
"Sat two rows in front of Frank Ciolino, '40. at last year's Army game without even realizing it until the first half was over. Meeting Frank brought back fond memories of the Glee Club — those noonday rehearsals, concerts, and char­tered Greyhound buses. Made me wonder if Mr. Pedtke has enough first tenors these days. 
"Haven't seen Mike Grace or Tom Trueman around New York since we packed away our civilian clothes. Last saw Ed Bisett when he was heading home from Harvard Law a little over a year ago." 
1st Lt. Leon L. Lancaster, Jr., '40. is in the Field Investigations Branch of the ODB. "ODB^s FIB catches up with those who 'FIB.' " Lt. Lan­caster explains. "We track down violators of the Servicemen's Dependents Allowance Act of 1942 
— people who make false claims in order to oI>­tain family allowances." 
Lt. Lancaster reports: 
"I was at Notre Dame from Scjitember. 1934. until June. 1940, when I received my A.B. degree in 1939 and the law degree in 1940. Reminiscen­ces of the 'Battle of the Woodpile' in the fall of '34. when we inmates of Freshman Hall, the Cardboard Palace, beat off the raiders of Carroll. Brownson. and Dillon Halls, until Father Boland came as an unsolicited arbiter — also of those legal arguments at Howells' when Howells' was THE place in South Bend. Would like to get in touch with some of the old crew — Art Sclna, Joe Nicro, Bob Dercngoski. Chuck Daly, Jack Deane, Owen Kane. etc. The only old crony I get to see occasionally is Ed Groffan, who is in FhiU adelphia with the FBI. Had the honor of being godfather recently to a newly-arrived Grogan, female." 
Lieutenants Connelly, AIe:cander, and Lancas­ter are assisting in administering the major ben* efits to soldiers' dependents — primarily family allowances, voluntary Class E allotments-of-pay and dependency allotments-of-pay. The work of the ODB. so important to the contentment and well-being of the men in the Army, is world-wide in scope. This big war agency does business with more than four million soldiers, administering these monthly family allowances and allotments­of-pay on behalf of more than eight million de* pendents of Army men. 
lOOTH COMMENCEMENT (Continued from Page 3) 

gram. He has been at Notre Dame since 1929. 
And Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, most effective­ly summarized the historical significance and the underlying character of Notre Dame's many relationships. 
"This is an historic moment, not only in the lives of the young men upon whom the president and faculty have just placed the seal of the University's ap­proval, but in the life of Notre Dame herself. With these ceremonies we bring to a close the last official Commencement for the duration. We also officially close the Centenary observance, which beg:an in September, 1942. 
"Our hearts are full; we are truly grateful as we see about us so many evidences of God's continuing blessings upon the school dedicated to His Blessed Mother. Truly, in the words of Father Sorin, we have stood, 'firm and unshaken, as one surrounded on all sides by the furious waves of a stormy sea, but who feels himself planted immovable upon the moveless rock.' 
"We have had the rare privilege of receiving a personal letter from His Holiness, Pope Pius XII. You heard it read, a thoughtful, inspiring message drafted at a time when he is beleaguered on all sides; when the burdens of a war-torn world rest heavily upon his shoul­ders. I cannot say merely that Notre Dame will always treasure that letter among her most priceless possessions. It is more than a gesture of friendship and good will growing out of the Holy Fath­er's visit to Notre Dame seven years ago, when as Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli he spoke to the faculty and students from this very platform. It is a letter— a sanction—from the Vicar of Him Who said, 'Go ye therefore and teach all na­tions.' It is directed to a school which is even now beginning its second cen­tury of devotion to the principles of Christian education that were bom on the Galilean shore two thousand years ago. We pray that we, as heirs to that tradition, may be given the grace to continue and strengthen it during the years that lie ahead. 
"On behalf of Notre Dame, I thank everyone who contributed to the success of these ceremonies. I extend our grati­tude to the beloved ordinary of the Di­ocese of Fort Wayne, Bishop Noll, the celebrant of the baccalaureate Mass; and to His Excellency, Bishop O'Connor for his masterful baccalaureate sermon. I thank Governor Kelly, devoted son of Alma Mater, who has filled a dual role this afternoon: He has delivered an ex­traordinary commencement address, and has also given us an opportunity to ob­serve an exemplar of fidelity to our tri­une loyalties, 'God, Country, Notre Dame.' 
"I especially want to say a word to the parents; to assure you that we have been faithful to our trust. Many of your boys—and they are our boys too—^will not begin at once the practice of their chosen professions, but in one way or another will serve our country. A large number of them are already in uniform. They will give an excellent account of themselves, in whatever capacity they are called upon to serve, because that is the Notre Dame tradition of patriotism. With God's grace they will help bring the world back to a recognition of man's dependence upon his Creator. 
"In conclusion, let us not go our sep­arate ways without thanking the Blessed Mother for the many blessings that her cchool and her sons have received. May her protection continue, and may her intercession with her Divine Son keep safe all Notre Dame men, especially those who are in the armed forces." 
FR. CONDON OBSERVES JUBILEE 
Rev. William H. Condon, C.S.C, vet­eran retired professor of the University, celebrated his golden jubilee in the priesthood on Nov. 12, with an anniver­sary Mass on the University campus. 
Rev. John Murphy, C.S.C, superior of Moreau Seminary, delivered the jubilee sermon, and also in attendance were Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, provin­cial, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president 
Father Condon, after receiving a bach­elor of arts degree from the College of St. Laurent in Quebec in 1890, was or­dained in Montreal on Nov. 12, 1893, and in 1911 received a master of arts degree from Laval university. 
Composite Club List of Alumni Contributions 
CENTENARY FUND 
MAY, 1942 to JULY, 1943 (Inclusive) 

Below is the picture of the Club participating in the Centenary Fund. With the exception of a very few Clubs, this repre­sents simply an accrediting of gifts to the Clubs with little or no effort on their part to stimulate giving. When the Second Annual Alumni Fund gets under way — and we hope that will be early after the New Year — the Clubs can do much to improve the second annual report, which will follow that effort. Results in the St. Joseph Valley demonstrate what can be done, both in total amount and in participation — particularly in the latter — by personal contact. The Association officers ask that the Clubs study this report as the basis for prompt action in the Second Annual Alumni Fund. First aim should be the increasing of participation. Second aim should be the increasing of amounts. In only 18 Clubs did the overage gift equal or exceed the War Bond (S18.75) suggested as the individual goal. And in most of these 18 Clubs, the average was high because of large individual gifts. Many Club members are in service. This should be an added incentive to work toward 100% of those remaining. If your officers or your lists or your program are not in working order, don't wait until the Fund calls on you — get set now. 
Club Name  Totjil Amount  No. Gifts  Club Name  Totiil Amount  No. Gifts  
Akron. Ohio  ...S  217.00  21  Miami, Florida  547.50  8  
Arkansas  _  99.50  13  Milwaukee, Wisconsin  4,682.94  69  
Berrien County (Mich.)  35.00  8  Minnesoto  708.00  40  
Boston, Mass.  ...  538.00  49  Mohowk Valley (New York)._  _  55.00  12  
Buffalo, N. Y.  354.00  42  Montana  20.00  3  
Calumet District (Ind. & 111.)..  ...  327.00  33  Nashville, Tennessee  20.00  4  
Canton. Ohio  136.00  17  New Jersey  1,724.50  158  
Capital District (New York)..  102.00  17  New Orleons, Louisiona  _  72.00  14  
Central Michigan  25.00  5  New York City  9,105.70  312  
Central New York  212.00  29  Northern Colifomio  288.46  43  
Central Ohio  ...  250.65  30  Northern Louisiana  8.00  3  
Central Pennsylvania  38.00  6  Northern New York  15.00  3  
Chicago, HI.  ...  5,160.20  385  Oklohoma  4,279.70  24  
Cincinnati, Ohio  _  ._  291.00  33  Oregon  2,492.00  24  
Cleveland,  Ohio  ...  2,885.69  93  Peoria, Illinois  _  351.00  15  
Connecticut Valley —  80.00  7  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  436.00  49  
Dallas. Texas  .._  ...  1,190.00  19  Phoenix, Arizona —  37.00  4  
Dayton, Ohio  256.50  19  Rhode Islond S S. E. Massachusetts  704.00  24  
Delaware  95.00  13  Rochester, New York  405.00  25  
Denver, Colorado  162.00  17  Hock River Valley (Illinois)  .  206.00  23  
Des Moines, Iowa  102.75  17  Saginaw Valley (Michigan)  .._  65.00  12  
Detroit, Michigan  _  4,653.99  149  Son Antonio, Texas  51.50  8  
Dubuque, Iowa  18.00  6  Sandusky, Ohio  184.00  13  
Eastern Indiana  39.00  6  Scronton, Pennsyvanio  587.00  9  
Eastern Permsylvania  22.00  4  Southwestern Connecticut  225.00  32  
Erie, Pennsylvania  65.00  8  Springfield, Illinois  _  208.00  13  
Flint, Michigan  _  48.00  7  Spokane, Washington  17.00  6  
Fort Wayne, Indiana  327.00  36  St. Joseph Volley (Indiona)  _. 31,586.10  518  
Gogebic Range (Mich. & Wis.)  22.00  4  St. Louis. Missouri  942.00  56  
Grand Rapids, Michigan  413.00  37  Tiffin,  Ohio  23.00  6  
Green Bay, Wisconsin  36.00  11  Toledo, Ohio ....  3,917.00  31  
Homilton, Ohio  25.00  4  Tri-Cities (HL & Iowa)  146.50  9  
Horrisburg, Pennsylvania  68.50  11  Triple Cities (New York)  _  137.00  8  
Hiawathaland (Mich. & Wis.).  70.00  11  Tri-State (HI., Ind., Ky.)  156.00  14  
Houston, Texas  2,523.50  23  Tucson, Arizona  _  20.00  3  
Illinois Fox Volley  102.00  18  Utah  _  44.00  6  
Indionopolis, Indiana _  2,688.50  84  Wobosh Volley (indiono)  „  605.50  11  
Jockson, Michigon  _.  30.00  4  Woshington, D. C.  _  383.60  40  
Kansas  58.00  13  Waterbury, Connecticut  69.00  12  
Eonsos City (Mo. & Kos.)  928.30  30  Western Pennsylvonia  _  848.70  75  
Greater Louisville, Kentucky  323.50  48  Western Washington  123.00  22  
Lo Porte, Indiono  4.00  2  West Virginia  184.00  21  
Los Angeles,  California  10,956.00  71  Youngstown, Ohio  164.00  12  
Monilo, P. I.  5.00  1  
Memphis, Teimessee  236.00  13  Total (88 Clubs)  _  5103,061.78  3268  





