The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMN S 
Vol. 23 APRIL, 1945 No. 2 
The ALUMNUS presents this proposed Adoration Chapel which will centralize the religious program of the postwar campus. Because of its universal appeal, the Chapel is under consideration as the University's War Memorial for Notre Dame men of World War II. » » » » 
\„ ­
.^gi^ _^_ 
mm. 
. »m0m II.:.i" amtfI -». 

^„M/\K e I— 
NoTftE DAM E l)wiv Jiy. .** **.'"f" !• I. 

AUuM4u Reli^404€l BiUleiin 
• BY BEV. JOHN P. LYNCH, C&C, IS j 
FAMILY PROBLEMS 
Several alumni have written asking 
questions on recent articles in this 
column regarding the Catholic family 
and some of its problems. 
Bather than try to write individual 
lengrf:hy letters, I'm going to. suggest 
to them two fcooks. The first. Life 
Together by 
Wingfield Hope, 
(Sheed and 
Ward, publisher) 
is by a layman 
writing under a 
nom de plume. 
As you read it, 
sometimes you'll 
think the author 
must be a doctor, 
sometimes you'll 
Fathei Lynch think he's a 
priest, at other 
times a husband and father. He is that, 
a husband and a father—and he's good! 
Another recommended book is mostly 
by laymen, a collection of speeches given 
at a Catholic Family Life Conference 
in 1944. There you'll find inspiring 
Catholic doctrine on marriage by some 
priests: then treatment of some practi­
cal family problems by laymen, who are 
fathers, mothers, doctors, experts on 
population and birth control, juvenile 
delinquency and allied subjects. 
You can obtain the book entitled, The 
Family Today from the National Cath­
olic Welfare Conference, 1312 Massachu­
setts Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
Enclose $1.00. 
Another conference was held this 
spring, and a new book will probably 
be published incorporating these later 
talks. Ask for that one too. If it is 
like the 1944 publication, it's good. 
MBS. ROOSEVELT MISSES THE POINT 
In a recent article, we noted that Rus­sia and Canada are providing financial allowances for children, to promote larger families and suggested something similar in the United States, as a patri­otic measure, even of self-preservation. 
Mrs. Roosevelt talks about compulsory military training as the greatest factor of preparedness to prevent another war. If the Planned Parenthood program, espoused by Mrs. Boosevelt continues, we'll have just one half the potential fighting force of Russia 25 years from now. 
The United States Daily News ana­lyzes the figures recently published by the Census Bureau in Washington and shows future fighting strength among major powers, basing statistics on the-category of 15-35 year old males. Rus­sia in 1970 should have 43,000,000 as against the United States' 21,000,000! 
Yet Mrs. Roosevelt in a recent press conference said this country does not need to make special financial allowances to encourage "extra children" because "it is better to have more homes with four or five children, than large families of poorly educated or hungry children." 
The financial allowances are advocated 
to prevent just that condition, but Mrs. 
Roosevelt doesn't see the connection. 
It is reported, and plausibly too, that 
when Stalin was asked to allow the 
Pope to sit in at the peace table, he 
asked very realistically, "How many 
divisions has he got?" 
Assuming the existence of compulsory 
military training in 1970, Mr. Stalin's 
successor can ask then, 25 years from 
now, "The United States doesn't like 
what I'm doing? How many divisions 
have they got?" 
We and Mrs. Roosevelt will probably 
be dead then; but your sons won't be 
and they'll feel pretty foolish when they 
compare fig^ures—13,000,000 Russians 
and 21,000,000 Americans. 
HAPPY EASTER 
These greetings will be late to you, 
scattered over the world as so many of 
you are. 
But even late they are timeless, ever 
since Christ's Resurrection and His 
pledge to us of our victory over death. 
These greetings may also seem futile 
in the presence of the misery and un­
happiness surrounding you in wartime. 

But never were they more practical, worthwhile—and true. 
You in the service today are repeat­ing Christ's Passion, taking up and bearing your Cross with Him. 
By offering up your sufferingfs daily to Christ in memory of His Passion, you can be kneeling alongside Christ in His Agony in the Garden. 
He had the same feelingrs, wonderings as you—fear, doubts, questions—ques­tions whether it was worthwhile. 
He overcame this fear by a coura­geous acceptance of His Cross as the Will of His Father. 
. He overcame His doubts and questions by His-love for tis—by His conviction that His death would earn Heaven for us—for you and me. 
And Heworthwhile.   knew  Heaven  was  plenty  
Those alumni killed in this  war and  
welcomed home to Heaven by their Mother, Notre Dame, know now that Heaven is worthwhile. They know the truth of Father Charles O'Donnell's  
poem—  
TO OUR LADY  
We have colored your cloak with gold And crowned you with every star. And the silvery ship of the moon We have moored where your white feet are. As you look on this world of ours.— Campus, and lakes, and towers.  
You are Rood to us O Great Queen, Good as our mothers are.  
And you know us by name, each one,— Ah! Heavenly Registrar, Enter our names in the book  
Into which your dear Son will look!  
For we know that a time will come.  
Hie graduating year. When thousands and thousands of us  
Who dreamed on your beauty here Will gather before your face And dream and talk of this place.  
Then when your Son comes by. You will tell Him, as of old. "ITiese are the boys we knew. I. in my cloak of gold. You at the breaking of Bread— These are the troops You fed-"  
And a shout shall split the skies As the ranks send up His Name. A golden hour in heaven When your sons, O Notre Dame, Kneel to their Leader down.  
There by the hem of your gown.  
VOCATION PROSPECTS  
Some alumni wonder why I don't answer letters promptly. The reason isI don't receive mail promptly. It hasto catch up with me in my travels,lecturing on vocations, seeking and inter­viewing candidates for the Holy Crosspriesthood.  j^ i f > '  
One alumnus  sent  me  the  name  of  
a fine prospect—and I might add, we welcome any names of interested boys from grammar school age upward—. even those in the service, of which there are many corresponding.  
We are not short on vocations, but God is blessing American youth with many vocations to the priesthood and we are preparing for post-war expan­sion.  
From your own knowledge and memory, we don't want "sissies" but "regular," energetic, bright lads, who-can develop into intelligent zealous priests, for our apostolate of teaching, home and foreign missions, parishes and certain specialties in writing, youth work and other fields. The boys can write to me directly or you may send me their names and addresses as likely prospects.  


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame; Indiana. Entered 
as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, undo' the act of 
August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alomni Federation. lames E. Amutrong. '25. Editor; WiUiom B. Deolay. '26. Managing Editor 
Vol. 23 APRIL, 1945 No. 2 
Pattern for Progress: a Four Point Program 
Father O'Donnell gives you a stimu­lating basic keynote for our efforts to stimulate alumni leadership gfenerally. (You would do well, too, in this con­nection, to read Professor Staunton's scholarly commencement address in this issue.). 
President Tom Byrne has a fine treat­ment of the basis for our Fund. 
Father Jam^ Connerton, registrar, gives you the reasons for constant co­operation on the part of alumni in the selection of prospective students. 
And Bill Dooley advises you of your opportunity to aid in the immediate problem of helping Notre Dame men, especially the veterans, to secure not only jobs, but jobs which will be most helpful to them individually, and of the greatest mutual benefits to them, to their Notre Dame background, and to you. 
These articles are basic. Please read them to speed up our program. 
supernatural energies which, as faith teaches, are necessary in order that man may achieve ever his proper humanity— his personal freedom, his social unity.'* 
To this, Mr. Woodlock adds succinetiy: "The layman, in short, is—or should be— both the 'incarnation' and the transmit­ter of the Catholic mind to the outside world, for he must incarnate it, if he is to transmit it." 
I repeat that leadership is expected of all Notre Dame men. Why? Because at Notre Dame you wero trained to know the truth. Here you were taught that truth and morality are fixed and objec­tive, and not subject to change with time and circumstance. Here you learned not only that the end of man is God, bat also the nieans by which man attains his end. 
But it is not enough merely to know. You must be articulate as well, because you cannot defend intelligently what you 
The Alumni Board has fought through some very serious meetings in recent months in an effort to crystallize the program of the Association for immedi­ate stimulus of individual, Class, and Club. 
From these discussions and plans have emerged four major and tang^ible proj­ects that can be begun or intensified at once, through individual or collective co­operation. 
TAe Leadership of Notre Dame Men 
By Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. '16, President of the University 
By James E. Armstrong, '25, Alumni Secretary 
The ALUMNUS has asked four lead­ers in the Association to present in this issue the basic needs in each field. From them you can act, individually in many instances, to help; you can cooperate through your Class in some of them; and in your Club, if the oflicers are not seriously pushing these programs, per­haps you can urge them into action, or if the officers are aggressive, you can in­tensify the Club's success by your prompt participation. 
A year ago, in announcing an in­tegrated program for the Alumni Asso­ciation, the ALUMNUS made a statement that is even more sigrnificant now than it was then: 
"As Notre Dame men, we are witness­ing, almost daily, incidents that are moral Pearl Harbors. Attacks on the state, attacks on the church, attacks on the family, attacks on our individual rights occur with increasing frequency and boldness. 
"It is no longer a question of personal issues. We are in the fight for principles. We have now either to fight or run." 
Notre Dame men don't run. 
Leadership is expected of all Notre Dame men. That is a broad statement, I know. But I am not speaking in plati­tudes. I make that statement as a simple, demonstrable — and frequently demon­strated—truth that reflects credit upon your Alma Mater which taught you the things that must be fought for. It is a truth as demonstrable as its corollary which, in turn, reflects credit upon you, the alumni. The corollary is that, through the years, succeeding genera­tions of Notre Dame men have proved 
again and again that they can, and do, 
live up to what is expected of them. 
Many persons, it is true, have a strange notion of leadership, and as a result define the word too narrowly. We are not all expected, nor should we tir, to be leaders in the somewhat theatrical sense in which the term is commonly used. Most of us have neither the gifts nor the opportunities to appear to ad­vantage in the dazzling limelight of a national stage. But each of us can, and as a duty, should make the most of the ' talents and opportunities that, by God's grace, are ours, as we go about our daily 
tasks. 
The function of the laity is well de­scribed by Father J. Courtney- Murray, as recently quoted by Thomas F. Wood-lock, Laetare Medalist, in Columbia: "The layman is charged with the mediation between the essentially sacer­dotal body of the Church, as the means and milieu of man's total salvation in body and soul, and the essentially secu­lar, this worldly body of society, wherein man is ordered to his temporal end, the achievement of his proper human per­sonality. It is through the layman that there must flow into the world those 
are unable to define. Lucid expression must go hand-in-hand with thorough knowledge. Much of what is evil in the world took root and then reached a nox­ious growth because vast numbers of people do not know the basic truths you know and take for granted. The task of the Notre Dame alumnus, therefore, is to see to it that what he knows becomes more and more widely known by others. 
By right thinking and acting—that is, by word and example—^in your own homes and cominunities you can become co-partners in a crusade to bring the 


The Needs of the University 
By Thomas F. Byrne, '28, President, Alumni 
With so many demands being made, nowadays, on our time, our resources, and our very thoughts, all of us are faced with the necessity of putting "first things first." And because to the Notre Dame man, Notre Dame has always been one of the first things in his life, your Alumni Board feels that you will wel­come the opportunity to give some thought to the needs of the University and its future, even though it entails some degree of sacrifice in these busy times. 
The keynote of the program which your Board is placing before you in 1945 is your increased participation in Uni­versity life. We hope to secure effective alumni thought and action on the many problems which the war years have created for the University and which must be solved, fully, during this trans­ition period, if Notre Dame, after the war, is to continue as the dominant in­fluence in Catholic education and action which it has always teen and continues the constant increase which is its right­ful destiny. 
The only way we can hope to achieve a fair measure of success in this is by securing the active participation of the entire alumni body. Judging from the past—^from the cooperation extended to the Centenary Fund and the Second Annual Fund which followed—^the active support of slightly more than one-third of all the members of the Alumni Asso­ciation is assured. But if our 1945 "Pattern for Progress" program moves to action, only these veteran partici­pants in alumni activity, it cannot succeed. This is not a program that one-third the alumni can make success­ful if each does ten times his individual 
world back to the Christian principles it has so tragically abandoned. You can actively combat the forces that would destroy the family, the home, the church, and our country itself. You know what these forces are, and what will befall our civilization if they are permitted to un­leash their full fury. They are the "ene­mies from within." They are not only irreligious, but anti-religious, and anti-God. They deny the dignity and integrity of the human personality, and hence make of man what the late beloved Fath­er Carrico once aptly described as "a kind of collegiate gorilla." 
 Association 
share. It is a program in which all the alumni must do a little. 

The entire plan is based on and is dedicated to awakening the desire of every Notre Dame man to participate more actively in the life of the Univer­sity. We are soliciting your thinking and the expression of your ideas. We believe that this will be forthcoming because every Notre Dame man, in-his heart, wants the spiritual glow and satisfaction that comes from staying close to Notre Dame and the things the University stands for in his life. 
As the first step in the program, a questionnaire has been prepared and mailed each alumnus not in the service. The percentage of returns we receive will indicate, pretty quickly, the measure of success we can expect. Therefore, your Board urges you to place some real importance on filling out completely and promptly mailing back this question­naire. It is only a stepping stone toward enabling the Alumni Association Office to compile • the information which a group of our kind, with so many com­mon interests, should have available in its central files. But most important, it is necessary to keep you from being "statistically sequestered"—a new name for an old malady in any organization, and one which militates against indi­vidual participation in the affairs of the group. 
Our distinguished President, Father 

J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, highlighted the University's need for active alumni participation in its life, some time ago, in the brochure, "Years to Remember." "The alumni have made it possible," Father O'Donnell said, "for Notre Dame to protect some of the gains that she has made, despite the inroads of war. But what holds the brightest promise for Notre Dame's future is the growing realization among alumni that their continued support is an essential part of Notre Dame's' growth and develop­ment." 
As true as these words were when Father O'Donnell wrote them, the leng­thening shadow of war has made them prophetic. The time is definitely here for every Notre Dame man to reappraise his obligation to the University, to con­sider the deep sense of personal satis­faction it will give him to meet this ob­ligation with a real spirit of interested participation and help preserve for our sons, for the boys who are coming back from the fighting fronts and their sons the ideals of the University which taught us all "not only how to make a living, but also how to live." 
Can we count on your help in this? 


The University's AdmissionPolicy 
By Rev. James W . Connerton. C.S.C, "20, 
Although our reg^istrar's office is in almost constant touch with individual alumni concerning our mutual interest of admitting students to the University, re­marks of other alumni are often brought back to us indicating an earnest willing­ness to help in selecting our student body whenever the alumni generally are in­formed about our requirements and the changes that take place from time to time. To satisfy that need in part the following points may help. 
Right now we are experiencing the worst shortage of enrollment in many a year but we are building surely and 
Registrar 
soundly for the future. Our enrollment for the semester just started is 1,735 civilian and Navy students. Maiiy alumni have helped us throughout this difficult time, sparing themselves and their time not at all. We. are deeply grateful to them and we unhesitatingly seek other alumni who will help us in their par­ticular localities. We feel that your inter­ests are at stake as possessors of degrees in that the value of those degrees will remain constant only as long as we main­tain a selected student body and sound requirements. 
Only two changes involving entrance 

requirements have been made during the wartime and both of these we consider to be educationally sound. They are as follows: 
1.
 SUidents possessing the "twelve" basic imits in groups I and II of our en­trance requirements may now he admit­ted provided the quality of their high school work in these subjects and the recommendation of their high school principal indicate that they are qualified. A high school diploma was never re­quired and the tfvelve tinits mentioned constittite all the basic disciplines. 

2.
 One unit of either Chemistry or Physics is now required for admission to the College of Science. Only Physics sat­isfied the science requirement formerly. 


(The experiment of accepting boys with less than fifteen units has proved very interesting. A comparative survey of equal numbers of high school gradu­ates and three and one-half-year high school boys (100 of each) was made here at Notre Dame. It revealed that the boys who entered with a curtailed high school year succeeded with grades a trifle bet­ter than the others.) 
Those are the two changes. What then are the regular constant considerations involved in the registrar's evaluation of an applicant's transcript? 
1.
 Accreditation of the high school. 

2.
 Kight kinds and total of units. 

3.
 Bank in class. (Upper two-thirds) 

4.
 The high school's certifying grade. 

5.
 Recommendation of high school prin­cipal. 

6.
 The applicant's I.Q. 


Within the rules of the catalog^ue, the deans of the several colleges have the right and duty of final decision as to who will be admitted to their colleges except in borderline or doubtful cases which are referred to a Committee on Admissions, of which the dean of the college con­cerned is a member. 
It hardly need be said that we are very concerned about the character, back­ground and promise of students who apply. To that end, we ask the alumni to be as discriminating as possible in their recommendation of students, even in times of decreased enrollment., Notre Dame, as you know, is very democratic and, while we are proud of this fact, we are also selective. Each semester a size­able percentage of applicants are re­jected. I hope we will never need to take everybody who applies, thus exposing our accreditation to question and our better men to bad influence of any kind. 
Finally, may we add a few details that should be helpful to all concerned. 
1.
 We ask the alumni to deal directly with the the Registrar for the sake of prompt efficiency. The round-about way of addressing other campus friends first only creates delay and extra work for all involved. We count no one more influ­ential than an alumnus and the Regis­trar is as anxious as anyone else to give the alumni every possible service. 

2.
 Action on an application is not taken until the application blank is carefully filled out by the student, including his and his parents' signatures, and is ac­companied by the reg^istration fee of $10. We send for the high school record our­selves after the boy's application is re­ceived. Asking the boy to have his trans­


Vocofipnof Counseling ond Nofr» Dame 
By William R. Dooley, '26, Assistant Alumni Secretary 
cript sent to us is unnecessary because we send our own form in all cases any­way. 
3.
 An applicant whose record is other­wise good may be accepted by the dean with one deficiency in requirements, on provision that it be made up here during the first year. 

4.
 Some part-time stttdent employment is available to beginning freshmen dur­ing the present time. Normally, it is available only after the freshman year. After the student who needs help is accepted he may apply to Mr. Herbert Jones, business managfer, for employ­ment. 


Back in May, 1938, the Administration 
of the University asked the Alunmi Of­
fice to take over vocational counseling 
and job placement for Notre Dame stu­
dents and Notre Dame alumni. I was 
asked to develop and direct such work 
(on a part-time basis, since I was to re­
tain much of my former work). 
The new work moved, primarily, in two divergent, but associated, fields: alumni vocational counseling and job placement through several of the' Notre Dame alumni clubs in the larger cities (with a coordination through my office at Notre Dame); and student vocational counsel­ing and job placement, chiefly for sen­iors, centralized in my office. 
• Both of these related activities achieved a measure of success, and have continued to do so. Until the demands of war preparation removed, largely, the need for extending employment aid to alumni, several clubs retained active and effective job placement committees, with, in each case, a self-sacrificing chairman in charge. In New York City and Chi­cago these chairmen have continued to function to a limited extent even through the war years. 
On the campus, with the invaluable cooperation of many faculty members, I enlarged and centralized the activities in job placement. For seniors, I arranged additional interviews with representa­tives of many of the country's leading business organizations, seeking not only to maintain and cement the relationship existing for many years between the University and some companies, but en­deavoring to extend such a relationship to other companies. 
This senior counseling and job place­
ment have continued, in some degree, even to the present day, despite radical changes, brought about by the war, in the student body and in the business spHere. Obviously, the work in vocational counseling and job placement has been vastly reduced since 1941. 
So much for the past and present. What of the future? 
Well, authorities in the field have esti­mated that thirty million persons in the United States are going to be involved in dislocations arising from the transi­tions from a wartime to a peacetime economy. 
It's apparent that a good many hun­dred, if not thousand, of these disloca­tions are going to be among Notre Dame men. The vocational questionnaires, re­cently sent out through the Vocational Committee of the Alumni Association to Notre Dame men in the armed forces, indicate that, broadly, 37 per cent of the returning veterans think they will need some sort of job help after the war; 32 per cent think they can provide their own jobs; and 31 per cent think they will return to Notre Dame. 
If we have, ultimately 7,500 Notre Dame men in the armed forces—a con­servative estimate—^the job for us will be immense. 
It goes without saying that we want to help our own Notre Dame men gfet re­adjusted to a peacetime economy. 
The chief question is, then, how to. do it. 
Those who should know agree, and common sense backs up this view, that vocational counseling and job placement will, in the immediate post-war period, be best.handled within their home com­
munities for the great majority of those needing assistance. The finger, therefore, is pointed straight at Notre Dame clubs. 
And, from what we've already heard from some Notre Dame clubs, we're con­vinced that all Notre Dame clubs are ready, even eager, to conduct a counsel­ing-employment activity. Several of them are already at work on active plans. 
To assist the clubs in getting under way with at least a basic, preparatory progfram in counseling and job place­ment, I have prepared and will shortly present to the clubs an outline of funda­mental suggestions. Most important sug­gestion of all is, of course, this one: that in each club one man with-the right per­sonal qualifications and sufficient avail­able time and office facilities, be asked to direct the activity. 
In presenting such a program it is to be assumed that there will be at Notre Dame a central office to coordinate the counseling-employment activities of all the clubs. This same office will also assist those alumni who do not reside within club areas. 
It is also to be assumed that the activ­ity will be basically a counseling-referral activity, working in full cooperation with similar agencies in a community and taking advantage to the fullest of all advantages offered by governmental agencies, such as the Veterans Bureau and the United States Employment Ser­vice. Operating exclusively "on its own," through "Notre Dame contacts" only, a committee in the normal club could not possibly hope to handle successfully a job of the magnitude that will confront it in the immediate post-war period. 
This counseling-employment activity presents a singular challenge to Notre Dame men: a distinct opportunity to put into real practice that Notre Dame Spirit of which we speak so readily, a chance for Christian charity of the high­est sort. 



1945 Laetare Medal to G. H. Shaw 
Is Former Assistant Secretary of State; Active in Catholic Charities, Penolosy. 
Laetare Medalist of 1945 is Gardiner Rowland Shaw, it was announced on March 11, Laetare Sunday, by the Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. Mr. Shaw, diplomat and recognized authority in the field of social welfare, recently resigned his office of assistant secretary of state. 
"The University of Notre Dame is happy to announce," said Father O'Don­nell, "that the Laetare Medal for 1945 is awarded to Gardiner Rowland Shaw, a diplomat who has served our country with distinction in many capacities, par­ticularly as assistant secretary of state. Despite the demands of a busy career, Mr. Shaw has always found time to bring solace and comfort to the poor and afflicted, and especially to the under-priv­ileged boy. He has shared his rare gifts of mind and heart with both the mighty and the weak. In an age of selfishness and greed, the University chooses to hon­or a true apostle of selflessness and gen­erosity. It is a pleasure to welcome Mr. Shaw to a select circle of distinguished men and women upon whom Notre Dame has bestowed her most cherished award." 
Highest honor bestowed on American Catholics, the Laetare Medal has been awarded annually since 1883 to an out­standing member of the Catholic laity. Forty-nine men and 14 women have now been awarded the honor as a recognition of merit and an incentive to greater achievement. ' 

GABDINER HOWLAND SHAW 
Mr. Shaw, 63rd recipient of the medal, is a native of Boston, and a graduate of Harvard University. An authority on Near-East affairs, because of his exjteri­ence there as a member of the United States diplomatic corps, Mr. Shaw is also widely known for his work in the field of 

. social welfare. His diplomatic career began in 1917 when he was made assistant to the coun­selor for the United States Department of State. Then, in 1919 he went abroad to serve as third secretary to the Amer­ican Peace Commission in Paris; in 1920 he became executive assistant to the sec­retary of state; and in 1921 served as second secretary to the embassy in Tur­key. After attending the Lausanne Con­ference in 1923, he was appointed Amer­ican delegate to Angora, Turkey, in 1924. The same year he was appointed first secretary of the embassy in Constan­tinople. From 1926 to 1930 he held the post of chief of the division of Near-East Affairs in the Department of State, and then became counsel to the American 
- Embassy, Stamboul. 
While in foreign service in Turkey, Mr. Shaw was active in the movement to improve deplorable conditions in the penal institutions in that country. His interest in penology continued until to­day he is president of the American Prison Association, the Osborne Associa­tion, and the Bureau of Rehabilitation, (Washington, D.C.) 
A past president of the National Con­ference of Catholic Charities, an office which he held for two terms, Mr. Shaw's extensive interests also include juvenile delinquency—a field in "which he is na­tionally recognized as an authority. He is a member of the Board of Visitors and of the Parole Conmiittee of the National Training School for Boys (Washington, 
D. C.); vice-president and a member of the Board of Directors of Children's Village (Dobb's Ferry, N. Y.); a mem­ber of the Board of Directors of the Prison Association of New York, the Boys' Club of New York, and the Nation­al Probation Association; and is vice-president of the National Conference of Juvenile Agencies. 
The Laetare Medal award originated in the ancient papal custom of bestow­ing a Golden Rose oh a member of Euro­pean Catholic nobility on Laetare Sun­day. Its modem counterpart was inaug­urated at Notre Dame in 1883 when the Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, Uni­versity^ founder, bestowed the first medal on the late John Gilmary Shea, eminent Catholic historian. Since that time the name of the recipient is revealed by the University president on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. 
Mr. Shaw, 49th man to receive the award, will be presented with the medal sometime in the near future. The date of presentation has not yet been deter­mined. 




For God, Country, Notre Dome 
9n^ Ql&^ Zoe^daiiincf 
LL Arnold J. McGrath, '22, Chicago, was killed in action in the southwest Pacific in January. He is survived by his mother, widow of John T. McGrath, former assistant postmaster in Chicago, a sister and an aunt. 
Arnold, a member of the Officers Re­serve Corps, joined the Army immedi­ately after the attack on Pearl Harbor. Serving in the San Francisco Port of Embarkation, he was sent overseas at his own insistence. 
In Chicago, Arnold was employed in the circulation department of the Chi­cago Trihime. He was at Notre Dame as a student from 1912 to 1922 and was president of the erstwhile Lifers. 
Capt. Thomai F. Ruckelshaui, '28, Indianapolis, was killed in a crash of a Cl-46 plane in the DaiHaghur Hills in India on May 23, 1944. Several search­ing parties were sent out, but it was not until Nov. 3 that the plane and the bodies of Tom and three other crew members were found. Surviving rela­tives are his wife, Virginia, his father and two brothers. One of the brothers is serving in the Navy in the Pacific. 
Tom was vice-president of the Red Cab Company of Indianapolis, prominent as a polo player and generally one of the city's best known and most popular residents. He had been in - India since June, 1943, and was attacHiST to the 13~2~8tirAXP'Base Unit. 
Ll. John E. Chevigny, USMCR, '31, Hammond, Ind., was killed in action on Iwo Jima on Feb. 20, the second day of the invasiqnjhere. Leading_sixjmei> fronL.his_23rd regiment up a slope while 
PREVIOUSLY REPORTED 
The deathi of 169 Notra Dame menserving in the arme3''forcin if~th^ AlHe. in World War JI have already^been^ listed^ in the "Aliimnus." (A total of 56 Notre Dame men lost their lives in World -Wir I.) -J X"^­

the area was under terrific artillery barrage. Jack amnus men took refuge in~a~Boml)"c'Fater. AT moment later Jhe_ craterJ^toiSk a ^rect KitTand all seyen were killed. .. 
Thus departed the fellow "who played the game with a wild fury and an ex­hausting drive and a spirit, that was all but visible," to quote Jim Keams, '34, sports columnist for the Chicago Sun, in his comment on Jack's football-play­ing days at Notre Dame. 
Following three years as a player under Knute Rockne, in 1926-27-28, Jack was an assistant coach under Rock in 1929 and 1930, and upon Rock's death in March, 1931^'became junior head coach, with Hunk Anderson as senior head coach. Jack coached the Chicago Cardinals, professional football team, in 1932, St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, in 1933, and the Univer­sity of Texas in 1934-35-36. He resigned as Texas coach in 1937 to become de­puty attorney general of Texas, but later joined H. H. Weinert, Sequin, Texas, in the oil business and retained that association, working largely in southern Illinois, until he was commis­sioned by the Marines in 1943. 
Jack was assigned to Camp Lejeune, N.C., as athletic officer and head ioothall CMich forthel943 season, h^%fl^ Jfjg own reqnSt wag assigned to a combat outfif in January, 1944. tie went over­seas last fauT^ 

Surviving Jack are two brothers, Henry J. Chevigny, Los Angeles, and Dr. Julius J. Chevigny, Gary, Ind., and two sisters, Mrs. T. P. Galvin, Hammond, wife of Tim, '16, and Mrs. Joseph GafTney, Washington, D. C. 
Lt. Jolm J. KeUey III, USNR. '33, Ean Claire, Wis., was killed as a result of enemy action while serving in the cap­acity of senior air ordnance officS aboard a carrier in the Pacific theatre. He was awarded the Purple Heart. John's parents, three sisters and a bro­ther, Arthur B. Kelley, '36, survive him. 
After receiving_his indoctrination at Notre Dgme, John was further trained atjOKlnance Inspectors' School, Wash­ington, D.C., and the Naval Air Station, Jackson;^le,^EIa^ with assignment for duty to the Naval Air Station, Gnan­tanamo Bay, Cuba. After serving with the air force, Atlantic Fleet, for 18 months, he was assigned to the Pacific. 
CpL John W. Disser, ex. '34, Fort Wayne, Cia^died in service on Feb. 24. from injuries shstaineii in"a"fall_onJth« deck of the gwe«M3h-jexcli»M;e liner Gnpsholm which was returning him to his homeland from_^_jiermaii-.Rri3<a> camp where he_had_ssent_3L4.jnontlia. Hi"iis survived by his wife, his two-year old son and his mother. 
John entered the Army Feb. 23, 1943, and served in the infantry under'Gen. Mark Clark after going overseas in Aug-
TED KNOSMAN DON MdWNAlO 
JACK CHEVIGNT JOHN KELLEY JOHN DISSER DON McKAT 
JOHN GROBKTEB BOB LETSCHEB 
ust, 1943, until he was listed missing in action on Nov. 27, 1943. John was employed by the General Electric Co. in Pt. Wayne before entering service. 
Lt. Donald R. McKay, USNR, '36, Fargo, N.D., reported in the February ALUMNUS as missing, was killed in action when the U.S.S. Hood, an ammunition^ ship^ exploded in "the Admiralty Islands on Nov. lOrBBs'wife, a daughter, a son, and his parents survive him. 
Don, a medical officer, entered the Navy in September, 1942, and was as­signed to Spokane, Wash., South Caro­lina and Newport, R. I., before going to the Pacific in September, 1944. 
1st. Lt. Tfaeodore J. Knusman, '38, Oak Park, 111., was killed in action in Germany on Feb. 8. Ted had been made commanding officer of his company in the famed Golden Acorn division which started one^ of the first effective counter­attacks a^inst the Germans last Decem­ber. He was awarded the Purple Heart p^osthumously. 
Before enlisting in April, 1942, Ted practiced law (he had received his J. D. at Northwestern). He was commissioned at Fort Benning, Ga., in February, 1943, and from that time until he went over­seas last October he taught at Ft. Mc­aellan, Ala. 
Ted's surviving relatives are his fath­er and his aunt. 
REBKT BESEOLOS CHAKUE'LEWIS 

/ h / 
I«t. Lt. Donald C. McDonalfl. |39, Waukegan, 111., was kiiled in action in eastern Belgium on Jan. 15. Surviving him are his father, a brother and a sis­ter. 
Don entered the Army in August, 1941, and was graduated from three different officers' schools—^the quarter­master corps,' the engineers' and the infantry's. 
Impatient to get overseas and "get this thing over," he had while serving with the engineers at Camp Ciairbome, La., requested a transfer to the infantry. He was_s_ent overseas in December, .19,44, and had been in Belgium only two. weeks when he was killed. • 
Henry L. Stimson, secretary of war, awarded Don the Purple Heart post­humously. 
Major John C. Grobmyer, '41, Carroll-ton, 'Kyi,'was kilfed in an airplane acci­dent in France wTFeb. 6. He is survived by "his "father and mother and brother and sister. 
John enlisted in the AAF in August, 1941, and in December, 1941, reported to Kelly Field, Texas, for basic training. In August, 1942, he received his com­mission as second lieutenant at Miami Beach, Ha., and in the early part of the next year was promoted to first lieuten­ant in North Africa. 
At the end of the Tunisian campaign, John was awarded the Lei^on of Merit 
ED DOTLE DAVE BIGGINS 
•fh
for his part in the operations in that country. From North Africa he was as­signed to Italy, and in July of last year was raised to the rank of major, being connected with headquarters of the Mediterranean air forces. 
LL Robert J. LeUcher, ex. '4.1, Port Arthur, Texas, was killed in an Army C-64 cargo plane crash on a routine flight from Los Angeles to San Bernar­dino, Calif. A heavy snowstorm caused the plane to strike a mountain peak near Santa Ana, on Jan. 15. 

Bob received his training in the AAF at Santa Ana, Calif., and at Williams Keld. He was in the air service com­mand as a test pilot. He is survived by his wife, a son, his parents and a bro­ther. \ , 
Lt. (js) Hercules (Herky) Bereolos, '42,*" Hammond, Ind., a Naval torpedo plane ^iIot,_ was killed in a.planecrash in the squQi^acificJVIarch .3PJJL,9.44. He is survived by his mother and six bro­thers. 
Herky enlisted in the Navy V-5 re­serve training program in the spring of 1942 and upon graduation from Notre Dame was sent to Glenview, 111., naval air base for primary training. He re­ceived his wings and ensign commission in March, 1943 at Jacksonville, Fla. He then was assigned as a navy air patrol pilot in Cuba. Four months later he ap­plied for transfer to the torpedo plane 
BUCK McHUGH STEPHEN O'ROITRKE ED DELANA DICK FBOEHLKE JOHN RTDER BOB KNEELAND 
squadron^—one of the most dangerous assignments in the Navy—and took tor­pedo pilot training at Quonset Point, 
R. I. Then in November, 1943, he was sent to the south Pacific. 
An outstanding athlete in grade school, high school and college, Herky was a monogram-winning guard on the Notre Dame football team and a leading shot putter on the track team. 
2nci. Lt Charles T. Lewi(, '43, Phila­delphia, was ldlled"in"Ffaifce on Feb. 2, in what is thought to have been almost his first actionTICHarles was a medical adminJstrativerofficer attached to a para­trpop regir^nt^f the ^T&lst airborne division. He had'TjeerfassigSed'to the division after its epic stand at Bastogne. He is survived by his parents and a sister. 
Charles entered the service immedi­ately after his graduation from Notre Dame; he passed through a non-com­missioned officers' school, officers candi­date school and a school for battalion surgeon's assistants. In the. spring of 1944 he made one voyage on a transport to Oran, Algeria, as transport surgeon and was sent to France late last summer. 
S/Sgt. EdwardE. Doyle, '43, Morris­town, N. 'j. , died in'Ffance 'of wounds suffered in action on Nov. 28. He had been seriously wounded while serving with the 179th infantry of General Patch's Seventh Army. 
Ed participated in the invasion of southern France' on Aug. 15 and had been with the Seventh Army in the liber­ation of Eome. 
Besides his parents, he leaves two brothers, 1st, Lt. Lawrence A. Doyle, AUS, '39, and Michael A. Doyle, Jr. 
Ed received his basic training at Camp Fannin, Texas, and was sent overseas last April. He had been awarded a citation in September and also received the Good Conduct medal and Combat Infantryman's badge. 
Lt. George M. O'Connor, ex. '43, Chi­cago, was killed""in action whileTeading an attack on the west coast of'Ceyte. 
During action on Kwajalein, Geo^g had served as aid "to "Brig!~Gen. Joseph 
L. Ready arid was awarded the Bronze Star for his action on Leyte. 
Capt. James P. Birder, ex. '44, South Bend, son of Cecil Birder, '14, head of Speech Department at Notre Dame, was killed Feb. 7 while serving with the 82nd airborne division. He had par­ticipated with the paratroopers in 11 months of combat and saw action in Naples, Rome, Pisa and southern France 
. and was with Lt. Gen. George S. Pat-ton's Third Army in Belgium. 
JIM BIRDER 

Before enlisting in the paratroopers in 1942, Jim was a premedical student at Notre Dame. He had been g^duated cum laitde from Saint Thomas Military Academy, Saint Paul, Minn. Surviving Mm besides his parents are a brother and two sisters. 
Pfc. David B. Higgins, ex. '44, Utica, 
N. Y., was killed in action in Germany on Feb. 23. One of Dave's duties was to clear mine fields laid by the enemy; while carrying out this mission, the area in which he was working was placed under enemy artillery fire and he was killed instantly by flying shrapnel. 
Dave was awarded the Bronze Star medal for heroic action against the en­emy in Belgium. His parents and two sisters survive him. 
A civil engineering senior at Notre Dame, Dave was inducted in June, 1943, trained at Camp McClellan, Ala., and sent to Virginia Polytechnic Institute for advanced military training. He went overseas in April, 1944, after further training at Camp Claiborne, La. 
T/5 Hugh F. Mc Hugh, e.x. '44, New York City, was killed in action in Bel­gium on Jan. 25. Assigned to the motion picture division of the Signal Corps, he had been in action since D-day. Hugh was wounded in France in October, 1944 and was awarded the Purple Heart. After rejoining his division he was again continuously in action, taking combat pictures at the front. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Hugh studied photography, his chief vocational interest, at the University of Rochester. 
TyS Stephen F. O'Rourke, ex. '44 Fort Wayne, Ind,, was killed in action in Lux­embourg on Jan. 8. Surviving him be-' sides his parents are two sisters. 
Stephen enlisted in the Army in De­cember, 1942, after three and a half years'at Notre Dame, and received his basic training at Camp Croft, S. C, as well as advanced specialized training in heavy weapons. He was later sent to Ft. Meade, Md. He went overseas in January, 1944, and served as a chap­lain's assistant before taking infantry training last December in France. He entered combat on Jan. 1 of this year. 
Lt. John K. Wolff, ex. '44, Raleigh. 
N. C, reported missing in the February ALVHNVS, was killed in action on Dec 18 over Ya£;oslavia, while pilot of a B-24 bomber. John, who completed near­ly 50 missions while stationed in Italy, received the Air Medal in recognition of meritorious achievement as well as th Presidential Unit Citation. 
John received his wings and commis­sion on March. 11, 1944, and was sent overseas on Oct. 15. 
Lt. Edward K. Delana, Jr., ex. '45, Chicago, a bomber pilot with the ISth Air Force, was reported killed in action over the Adriatic sea on Jan. 31. Ed's father, Edward K. Delana, '11, was an Army combat pilot in "World War I. 
Pvt. Ricliard P. Froehike, ex. '45, Wauconda, HI., reported in the Febru­ary ALUMNUS as missing, was killed in action in Luxembourg on Dec. 20. He is survived by his parents and his sister. 
Dick enlisted in the Army in Novem­ber, 1942, at Notre Dame. He was called to service Dec. 29, 1943 and received his basic infantry training at Camp Blanding, Fla. Returning from a short furlough, he reported to Ft. Meade, Md., and was sent overseas in June. 
Lt. John Kinsman, AAF, ex. '45, Eau Claire, Wis., fighter pilot, was killed in action over Negros Island in the Philip­pines on Feb. 19. John was a member of the 9th squadron of the 49th group (the same squadron with which Major Bong flew before he returned to the States). 
After completing his training in this country, John left for the Pacific theater on Dec. 27, 1944, and for a time was based in New Guinea, then on Leyte. He flew many missions and had com­pleted 50 hours of combat flying. 
John entered service in March, 1943, and received his commission in Febru­ary, 1944. 
CpL Dawey C Mann, ex. '45, South Bend, was killed in action on March 5 while serving with the Third Army in Germany. Surviving besides his parents are a brother and a sister. 
Overseas since September , 1944, Dewey was with the 10th armored div­
ision. He was graduated from the ASTP engineering course at the University of Georgia before transferring to the armored service. 
Lt. Patrick E. Murphy, ex. '45, St. Cloud, Minn., was killed by Jap mortar fire in Burma, on Feb. 4. Chosen as one of a group of oificers assigned for special duty on the Lido road in the China-Burma-India theater, he had left for India in September, 1944. 
Pat entered the armored forces in May, 1942, and, following a period of basic training at Camp Lewis, Wash,, he was assigned to officers' training school at Fort Knox, Ky., and later at Fort Sill, Okla., where he received his com­mission in April, 1943. Pat was attached to army bases at Camp Cooke and Camp Beale, Calif., and'Ft. Riley, Kans., be­fore going to India. 
Surviving are Pat's pai-ents and four brothers and two sisters. 
Lt. John L. Ryder, ex. '45, Hudson Falls, N. y., was killed in Italy on Dec. 29, as he was returning from a mission, when he crashed into the side of a mountain because of poor \'isibility. He was a mustang pilot and a member of a top-scoring fighter group of the Med­iterranean theater. 
He received his wings and commission Dec. 3. 1943 at Foster Field, Texas, and, after further training in the States, on July 26, 1944, joined the organization with which he Was affiliated at the time of his death. He had been awarded the Air Medal. 
John is survived by his wife, an Army nurse, his parents, two brothers 'and three sisters. 
Sgt. Joieph T. Gibson, ex. '46, Hol­yoke, Mass., was killed in action in Ger­many Feb. 15. On Feb. 9, Joe, a turret gunner, had received the DFC for un­usual bravery in action. His mother and sister survive him. 
Most of Joe's training was in Texas and Florida. His father, the late Dr. Frank L. Gibson, ex. '12, served in World War I as a lieutenant and saw much service in France. 
2nd Lt Robert W. Kneeland, e.x. '46, Postville, la., was killed in action on Biak Island on Dec. 2. Besides his par­ents. Bob is survived by his brother and sister. 
Bob had been serving as a navigator-bombardier in the "Air Apaches" with the Fifth Air Force. He entered the ser­vice March, 1943, and was trained at Ellington Field and San Marcos, Texas, where he was graduated on Nov. 13, 1943, as the youngest man to receive his silver wings and commission as a second lieutenant. He was then sent to Roswell, N.M. for a course in bombar­diering and was graduated there Feb. 7, 1944, He had been overseas since July, 1944, and had been wounded in November and hospitalized for two weeks. 
A/S Robert G. Perry, Navy V-12, ex. '46, Harrisburg, HI., died Feb. 19 as a result of bums from an accidental explosion during a medical frater­nity initiation at the St. Louis University School of Medicine. Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Perry, Bob's par­ents, survive him. Bob came to Notre Dame as a civilian student in Sept., 1942, BOB PERRY then joined the 
V-12 here in July, 1943. He left Notre Dame in July, 1944. His parents wish to extend their appreciation for the many kind messages of condolence and floral tributes re­ceived from Notre Dame men. 
The ALUMNUS has so far received only incomplete information regarding the following Notre Dame men who died in the service • of their country: Capt. Joseph R. Schroeder, '31, Minneapolis, killed March 31; Capt. George W. Ball, '36, Caledonia, N. Y., killed, March 2, in Germany; Lt. (jg) Philip P. DiCrocco, ^ , Stapleton, S. L, NTTT , killed'i'n action in the Pacific area, June 18; Capt. Leo S. Hillebrand, Jr.. USMCR, '41,' Toledo, O., killed in action on Iwo Jima, Feb. 20; Sgt. Patrick R. Maschke. '44, Tyrone, Pa., killed in action in Ger­many, Feb. 12; Cpl. Michael M. Zupko, '44, killed Feb. 26 in Luxembourg; Pfc Harry J. Osborne, Jr., ex. '45, Elgin, 111., killed on March 10 in Germany; James H. Gillis, ex. '46, Kane, Pa., killed in action in Germany, Nov. 23; Pvt. Theodore J. Dorsch, ex. '48, Clif­ton Heights, Pa., killed in action in Bel­gium in February. 



Deafhs Already Reported 
(In its previous issue the ALUMNUS 7v(is able to print only incomplete notices of the deaths in. the armed forces of the follomng Notre Dame men. More infor­mation about these men now being avail­

able, we are presenting it here. Eds. 
Lt Jeremiah J. KilHgrew, USNR, '42, Hobart, Tnd., was killed in action, when his ship, the USS Cooper, was sunk in^ 
the Ormoc Bay 
in the Philippines 
apparently by a 
torpedo, on Dec. 
3. Jerry received his ensign's com­mission on June 1, 1943. He was supply and dis­bursing officer of the Cooper when it was commis­sioned Mar. 15, 1944. After ser­

vice in the Atlan­tic, the destroyer was sent to the Pacific area. Jerry is credited with having con­tributed largely to saving the lives of the Cooper's survivors, despite their 15 hours in the sea; just before the battle he issued hot coffee and hot soup to all hands. 
JERRY KILLIGREW 

Leonard J. Herriges, ex. '43, Hubbard Woods, 111., was killed in action on the western front on Nov. 16. He is survived by his parents. 
Leonard did ASTP work at the Uni­versity of Nebraska for seven months, but when that program was discontinued he was transferred to the infantry and sent to Camp Philips, Kans. From there he went to France. He was the recipient of the Purple Heart and the Presidential citation. 
Leonard spent two years at St. Jo­seph's College, Collegeville, Ind., after he left Notre Dame. 
L t J. Paul Sevcik, ex. '33, Klamath Falls, Ore., died of cerebral malaria in a Japanese prison camp in the Philip­pines not long after the fall of Bataan. He was one of the last men to surrender on Bataan. _.Mrs. Sevcik, Paul's wife, and his son, Alan Laird, were held in the Santo Tomas camp, where the baby died on June 25, 1943 from typh­
oid pneumonia. Mrs. Sevcik was a prisoner in the camp until she was liberated with the arrival of our forces in Manila. 
PAUL SEVCIK 

Paul was a mining engineer for a pri­vate firm in the Philippine Islands at the beginning of the Pacific war, enlist­ing in the engrineers on Dec. 26, 1941. He was a first lieutenant in charge of 16 men. They holed up in a pocket in the mountains and did not know of the sur­render of Bataan, holding the Japs off for four days at which time all their ammunition was exhausted. All the men were killed except Paul, and before they captured him, he smashed all machine guns and arms that might be of use to the Japs. The Japs were so amazed at his courage, his wife writes, that even they made a hero of him. 
lit Lt. Walter H. Barton, ex. '44, Cicero, 111., was killed in action over Orkeny, Hungary on Dec. 26. A co-pilot of a B-24 Liber­ator bomber in the loth AAF, Walter i-eceived th e presidential citaton, and he was also awarded the Air Medal with one oak leaf cluster and post­humously the Purple Heart. His mother, Mrs. 
WALTER BARTOX Cecelia Barton, survives him. 

Walter entered the Army in 1942. He receivd his wings and was commis­sioned at Freeman Field, Seymour, Ind. 
Lt. John Lagrou, USMCR, ex. '43, Detroit, was "killed'in~a"pfahe crash in the central Pacific on Nov. 21 while on 
anti - submarine patrol. 
Jack enlisted in the Navy V-5 program while at Notre Dame and left the campus at the close of the semester in May, 1942'. He was inducted at Iowa City in July completing h i s pre-flight course 
JACK LAGROU 
in September. 

Jack took his primary training at Glenview, III., and was commissioned at Corpus Christi, Texas, in May, 1943. He then transferred to the Marine .\ir Corps as a Grumman torpedo bomber pilot and was sent to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and completed his operational training in January, 1944, at Santa Barbara,­Calif. He arrived in the Pacific in Feb­mary, 1944. 
F/O Jame* E. Sheet., ex. '45, Ashland, O., was killed in action over Germany on Dec. 27. Jim was a navigator of a B~24 
•in the Eighth Air Force and had been over­seas since last October. His par­ents. Dr. and Mrs. L. G. Sheets, and three sisters survive him. 
J i m entered 
the service on 
July 14, 1943 
and trained at 
JIM SHEETS Miam i Beach, 

Iowa State Col­lege, Santa Ana, Calif., Hondo Army Air Field, Tex., where he was graduated July 29, 1944, and Lincoln, Nebr. 


Missing in Action 

Capt. W. John Sherman, '31, Crown Point, Ind. A letter from the mother of Lt. Jerry Killigrew, '42, in February revealed that John had been reported missing. 
Lt. Leo W. Shields, '41, Salt Lake City, Utah. A note from Father William 
T. Craddick, Prefect of Religion, says that Leo, with an infantry division, is missing. 
Photo. M. 2/c Marleau J. Cragin, ex. '42, Las Vegas, Nevl; has been missing since Oct. 25. He was an aerial photo­grapher on the carrier; St. Lo, which was sunk on Oct. 25 in the second battle of the Philippines. Marleau had been in the service for more than two years and had spent a year in the South Pacific prior to the time of his disappearance. 
S/Sgt. James C. McGoIdrick. e.x. '43, Johnstown, Pa.7 irniissing in the Euro­pean" theater, according to a letter from his mother. Jim was awarded the Air Medal with oak leaf clusters in July, 1943. 
Sgt. Herbert F. Clark, Jr., '44, Park Ridge, 111. Father Thomas Kelly, C.S.C, received word from Herb's father that he has been missing since Dec. 21. He was with the infantry in Germany. 
Eugene,P.J(oet,jK>,,^X;Ji.l, Berwyn, 111., is missing in Germany. 
Pfc. Galand V. Funk, '44, Muncie, Ind., with the first Army in Belgium, has been missing since Dec. 24. 
Pvt. James F. Landgrcn, '44, Chicago, with the infantry, is missing, according to notices on returned mail. 
Pvt. Warren D. Leary, Jr., '44, Rice Lake, Wis. Father Craddick in March reported that Warren was missing in Belgium. 
Lt. Frank M. Casick, ex. '45, Provi­dence, R. I., was missing in action over Germany. 
Pfc Edward V. Minkowski, Jr., ex. '47, Kenosha, Wis. Father Craddick re­ceived word that Ed has been missing since Jan. 3. He was serving near the Belgian-German border. 
Prisoners of War 

1st Lt. Leo J. Fomenko, '35, South Bend. Leo who was reported in the February Alumnus as missing in action, is a prisoner'of the German government. His parents received word through the International Red Cross. 
1st Lt. Samuel S. Lawler, ex. '38, South Bend. Sam was also reported in the February Alumnus as missing, but it is now known that he is a prisoner of war in Germany. 
Lt. Thomas G. Horgan. '41, Reno, Nev. Previously listed as missing, Tom is a German-held prisoner, according to a letter from his mother. 
Sgt. John L. Wifgins. '43. Chicago, is a prisoner of war in Germany, his mother has been notified. He previously had been listed as missing in action in Holland. 
Lt. Charles S. Mc Kelvy, Jr.. ex. '44, Atchison, Kans. Charlie, reported miss­ing, is a prisoner in Germany. He was a P-47 Thunderbolt pilot attached to the Eighth Air Force in England. 
Sgt. Anton Pojman, Jr.. ex. '45, Chi­cago, who was reported missing Oct. 11 in the siege of Aachen, was wounded and taken prisoner by the Germans, his parents have been notified. He entered the Army in June, 1942, after complet­ing his second year at Notre Dame. 
room here at Bil-bid prison, where 




Six N. D. Men Freed by Seventh we were taken. 
Lt. John Finneran, '33, Helps in Rescue at Los Banos Camp in the Philippines. 
This is the story which came to Notre Bame in March: a story of seven Notre Dame men, six prisoners of war, and one 
who led them to their freedom. 
It was at the prison camp at Los Banos in th e Philippines on Feb. 23, 1945. They had been interned for over three years, and Mass that morn­ing', celebrated by Eev. Jerome Lawyer, C. S. C, 
FATHER LAWYIX '35, in the camp, 
was being offered that the starving prisoners would soon be freed from Japanese cruelty. The Mass over. Father Lawyer'turned from the altar, and glancing up, saw a sky polka-dotted with parachutes. Liberation came that day. 
Leading paratroopers to liberate the prisoners was a New Yorker, John Fin­neran, '33, first lieutenant of the 511th Parachute Infantry, 11th Airborne Di­vision. On release of the internees, Lt. Finneran discovered that six were Notre Dame men. Among them were four mem­bers of the Holy Cross order, Father Lawyer, Portsmouth, 0.; Eev. Bobert McKee, C.S.C, '36, Malone, N.Y.; Bro­ther Theodore Kapes, C.S.C, '41„ Hazel-ton, Pa., and Brother Rex Hennel, C.S.C, Evansville, Ind. With them at Los Banos were imprisoned two civilians—Michael 
J. Adrian, '25, New York City, and Anthony L. Alsobrook, Chattanooga, Tenn., who attended the University in 1925-27. 
Members of the Holy Cross Congre­gation trapped in the Philippines were en route to their Bengal mission in 1941. Just one week before Pearl Harbor their boat, which was to sail straight on to India, unexpectedly stopped at Manila, and deposited all passengei's there. While they were waiting for passage on to India, war was declared. 
Said Father Lawyer in a letter to the Alumni Office: "We met Jack Finneran the night of the rescue in the shower 

Lt. John Murphy, '35, a Leader in Cabanatuan Attack 
—Press Association, Inc. 

One of the leaders in the heroic attock which in late January released 511 men from the Cabanotuan prison camp near Cabu on Luzon islond was LieuL Frauds John Murphy. '35. Springfield, Mass., shown in the center of the picture (carrying his tifle with' both hands) as he led his men back from one of the war's most spectaculor coup*. 
John, a member of the Sixth Banger infantry bottalion. commanded one of the four groups '«^ch attacked the prison, 25 miles behind the Japanese lines. 
From that mo­ment it didn't take long to es­tablish an N.D. club here. The next day we met a G-2 Cunning­ham, '31, and Bill Back, '41-'43, of the nth Airborne Division. 

FATHER MCKEE "On the night of Feb. 28 we had a real get-together . . . crackers, pork sausage and other such addenda for a good night's entertainment. The party broke up at midnight. The next morning I found Jack on the lawn. He had just come back from the 6 o'clock Mass — that's real N.D. spirit. From talking with him, it is easy to judge that he is doing a great job, not only for his country but for his God. The men under him love and respect him. He is a great friend of the chaplain. Father Gajmor, a Graymoor father. Jack's great pride seems to be the rescue of a two-day-old baby. He was in charge of the evacuation of the camp hospital at Los Banos, and did a swell job." Wrote Jack Finneran: "Our fears, from a military standpoint, were that if there was the slightest slip-up the Nips would readily make a wholesale slaugh­ter of those men, women and children. That slip-up did not occur—thank God! —the attack coordinated to perfection— and we killed 243 guards and militia, with a loss of two of our men and not one of the internees. .. . It seemed— and still does—^so hard to believe that we could be brought together—^many 
• thousands of miles from home—^by that common bond, Notre Dame." 
DEAN POUND IN LEQURE SERIES 

' Dean Emeritus Boscoe Pound of the Harvard Law School delivered a series of lectures at Notre Dame in March on "The Law of Individual Bights, Its Or­igin and Development." 
Presented under the auspices of the Notre Dame College of Law, Dean Pound returned for the fourth consecutive year to lecture at the University. Special in­vitations to the series were extended to the St. Joseph County Bar Association and to South Bend attorneys. Dean Clar­ence E. Manion of the Notre Dame Law School presided at each lecture. 
Rt Bev. Hugh F. Blunt, LL,D., '20, pastor of St. John the Evangelist's Church, Cambridge, Mass., has been maile a Domestic Prelate. 



N. D, Midshipmen's School to Qose 
Spring of 1945 has found the Univer­sity undergoing changes that in any but this historic era would be sensational. 
Enrollment is slightly over 1,700, hard­ly more than half the peacetime peak. Approximate figures at the semester's opening listed 790 civilians, 36 graduate students, 30 law students, 436 V-12 trainees, 318 NROTC members, and 151 religious. 
One interesting trend in the current semester is the increase in the enroll­ment of veterans, from 56 to 107. Of this group 29 are under the Veterans Re­habilitation Act and 78 under the G.I. Bill. 
On Feb. 28, 42 undergraduate degrees and eight graduate degrees were award­ed by the University in special faculty convocation in Washington Hall. The scholarly address delivered by Professor Henry C. F. Staunton on that occasion is reprinted in this issue. The diplomas were presented by Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C. As in all of the war-time convocations, a number of the recipients were absent, and the remaining group divided the new tradition of costume be­tween the conventional caps and gowns, religious habits,- and the uniforms of the several branches of the service. 
The announced reduction in the pro­gram of the Navy V-12 is to be offset to some extent by the increase in the NROTC program. Members of the grow­ing ROTC now occupy all of Walsh Hall and a part of Alumni Hall. 
On Feb. 8, in the Navy drill hall, 196 commissions were granted to members of the U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Capt. Richard K. Gaines, USN, chief of staff of the naval air technical command in Chicago, delivered the graduating ad­dress. Captain Gaines was introduced by Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, after the invocation by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 
On March 8, in the Navy drill hall, the eighth regular class of midshipmen were commissioned ensigns. This class num­bered 790, and was to have been ad­dressed by Lt. George K. Petritz, USNR, ex. '38, but an attack of malaria kept the Pacific veteran in the Bethesda, Md., hospital, and the graduates listened to an heroic tale of navy heroism on an air­craft carrier from Commander Maxwell 
Reduction in V-12 Program; Growth 
in N. R. O. T. C; Gvilian Enrollment 
Still L'sht; Veteran Enrollment Up. 
White, a medical oflBcer aboard the car­rier. Captain Barry presided and the in­vocation was given by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
The last class in the Midshipmen's School will enter in July, the Navy has announced, and the school will be dis­continued late in the fall after the four months course is completed, some time after Nov. 8. 
The Notre Bame school was the fourth to be established by the Navy, and began Oct. 5,1942. Including the March 8 class, the Notre Dame school has commissioned 8,510 men. 
The closing of the Midshipmen's School will release for the University's use in civilian, or other Navy, programs the 
BISHOP OF BUFFALO 

All alumni are pleased with the widely publicized appointment of the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, titular bishop of Milasa and auxiliary bishop of the Army 
Bishop O'Hara just before liis con­secration in 1940, with his mother who is now dead. 
and Navy diocese since January, 1940, to the important and populous See of Buf­falo. Pope Pius XII announced Bishop O'Hara's new post in a dispatch from Vatican City on March 16. 
Commenting on the elevation. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Bishop O'Hara's four halls—Lyons, Horrissey, Howard and Badin—which have been midshipmen residence and administrative halls. The Midshipmen's School was also largely responsible for the erection of the Navy drill hall and the Navy administration building on the campus. 
Much of the story of the Navy pro­gram at Notre Dame, and the Univer­sity's cooperation, is still in the making and not yet to be told. But there is al­ready adequate testimony from the Navy that both the University facilities and the training received in the program here made substantial contributions to-the speed and efficiency with which the Navy swung into the successful war effort 
successor in office as president of Notre Dame, said: "Notre Dame salutes her distinguished son. Bishop John F. O'Hara, on his appointment by the Holy See to the diocese of Buffalo and be­speaks God's blessing on his administra­tion. Both clergy and laity will come to know and revere him as a true shepherd of souls and the non-Catholics of the city as a true friend and benefactor. Ad multos annos!" 
Bishop O'Hara's work in assisting Archbishop Francis J. Spellman with the establishment of the Catholic chaplains throughout the armed forces of the United States in adequate numbers to supply the unprecedented needs of World War II has demonstrated what all alum­ni already knew. Father O'Hara's tre­mendous spiritual zeal and genius for organization. 
Notre Dame was also honored in the same act of the Holy See when another alumnus. Host Rev. John King Mnssio, M.A., '25, was made the first bishop of Steubenville, O. Father Mussio, ordained only in 1935, was chancellor of the Arch­diocese of Cincinnati at the time of his elevation. The new bishop did his under­grradnate work at Xavier in Cincinnati, and his seminary work at St. Gregory Preparatory and Mt. St. Mary.Seminary, Norwood, O. He received his L.C.D. in Rome. He seirved subsequently as a teacher in the seminaries in which he had studied, and also taught in Elder High school, Cincinnati. 


Notre Dame Memories 
(From the Files of the Notre Dame "Scholastic") 
68 Years A30: 
One of the first clubs to organize was the Lemonnier Boat Club Mr. Shick­ey did a brisk business with his Notre Dame and St. Mary's hacks and the rental of fine carriages work was progressing very slowly on the new Church a new kitchen capable of ac­commodating fifteen hundred boarders was erected during the summer vacation. 
One of the largest Scholastic advertis­
ers was Otto Von Tesman, Taxidermist 
excursions for watermelons were 
taken once a week. a short editorial 
warned against "the projection by cer­
tain unprudent people of various and 
sundry offensive missives" an ab­
solute University rule prohibited the use 
of tobacco "in any form" the Juniors 
had a canary bird presented to them for 
their study hall "We'll Blow our 
Horn for Hayes" was the campaign song 
of the day. 
Those pie-ously inclined were generally seen in the neighborhood of the store about half past three o'clock in the after­noon. .. . a house for the storing «f oil used on the campus was erected, but the big question was: "When will we have gas light?"... the Night Express on the 
L.S. & M.S. Railway was a 12-hour trip from South Bend to Cleveland Long­fellow's first volume of his "Poems of Places" appeared and Wagner's latest operas were causing much controversy in Europe.... football games were played for barrels of apples, usually donated by the kindly brothers.... Professor Ivers ornamented his buggy with two fine lanterns for night driving.... Bo­land's Aromatic Bitter Wine of Iron was considered one •f the best spring reme­dies ' 
58 Years Ago: 
A brick building, 200 feet in length, was being built between the gymnasium and the College of Music, to be used as an "armory, a bicycle and box-room, a drill hall, a Crescent Club Hall and a smoking room for the young men of the Senior department.". . . . preparations were being made for the introduction of the electric light into the printing of­fice. .. . with the installation of electric lights in the "gym, the smoke house and the bathrooms'! Notre Dame led all other American colleges in the use of elec­
tricity. .. . the Seniors' Branch of the Catholic Total Abstinence Union was re­organized . the positions on the St. Mary's Roll of Honor were awarded for "politeness, neatness, order, amiability, correct deportment, and exact observance of academic rules." 
Herr Baum was the happy recipient of a magnificent eagle, measuring six feet from tip to tip Company "A" of Col. Hoynes Light Guards had dress parade every Sunday evening. Prof. A. A. Griffith gave a lecture on elocution, ges­tures, face movements the second se­mester opened with 450 students, the largest attendance ever known in the history of Notre Dame. 
48 Years Ago: 
The new Grotto, modeled from the Grotto of Lourdes, was completed captains were elected for the six-oar boat races the Mandolin Club was in full swing the bicycle track near Brown-son was widened and new grand-stands erected. 
Courses in electrical and mechanical 
engineering were added ix> the curricu­
lum the old stile with its rickety, de­
caying posts heavily cut with initials was 
replaced by fancy iron gates an im­

provement which neither the students 
nor their fair cousins from across the 
road appreciated..'., the best workout 
was a bicycle ride to Niles.... celluloid 
collars were pretty dangerous now that 
tobacco smoking was no longer prohib­
ited a fellow had to get up pretty 
early in the morning to get those Ugh shoes laced up... . the most popular male hairdo featured a center part lost: a watch chain and a pair of nose glasses. 
The members of the class of '97 went to work in earnest to grow full mus­taches for Commencement.... the St. Cecilians were rewarded with a trip through the Studebaker Wagon Works ... . football uniforms consisted of quilt­ed pants and quilted laced-up-the-front vest over heavy sweaters a large book was chained to a table in the Sorin Hall reading-room iri'which the Sorihites rec­orded their New Year's resolutions.... Golden's resolution was to begin a series of lectures for the enlightenment of "those wretches who do not know the difference between a Pittsburgh 'stogie' 
and a Wheeling 'toby'." The Carroll Mil­
itary Company reached a point of ex­
cellence rarely attained by any corps of 
cadets.... one Scholastic item read: 
"Lost: one cuff and gold link cuff button" 
and another: "Lost: The top of a 

bicycle bell" it might be only coinci­
dence, but Heller's sign, "Hair Mat­
tresses for Sale," appeared a suspicious­
ly short time after Casey parted with his 
mustache... the full dress military coats 
arrived for Company A, Hoynes' Light 
Guards, which made them the envy of 
the campus a new bicycle room was 
built in the gym and each bike owner 
was assigned a certain stall, where he 
was expected to keep his wheel while not 
in use.... several Sorinites formed an 
Anti-Cigarette League, to help abolish 
the use of them by students.... Notre 
Dame's colors were sky-blue and gold. 

38 Years A30: 
Theodore Roosevelt wielded "the big 

stick".... popular songs were "In My 
Merry Olds Mobile," "Dream Giri," "He's 
a Cousin of Mine," "I Just Can't Make 
My Eyes Behave," "I'd Like to See a 
Little More of You"... almost every stu­
dent room boasted at least a dozen gaudy 
sofa pillows.... wing collars and tie pins 
were musts.... the Notre Dame band 
numbered 21 members ads in the Dome read: "Studebaker Vehicles, Har­ness, Automobiles," Nobile's Candy Store is the place for St. Mary's and Notre Dame Students, because they have stu­dent supplies—Candies, Ice Cream and Soda Water," Students and Visitors go­ing to Notre Dame should ask for Kupel Brothers' Hacks," "Buy Your Horse Goods at C. N. Tragers". . . . students were campaigning for bleachers on Car­tier Field.... an item in Scholastic read: "Nearly every big school has a yell-mas­ter. Why should not Notre Dame have one?" 
An editorial supported Bryan and his policies, while another criticized a mag­azine article advocating women's suf­frage. .. . smoke talks, bringing students and administration together for a smoke and discussion, became popular.... some 20 Sorinites did extra Lenten penance for the enviable record of having over 
200 demerits Thomas E. Burke was the name signed to most of the senior poetry appearing in publications. 
In a protest against the Nebraska co­eds receiving boxing lessons, a Notre Dame editor wrote of the athletic girl: ".. , We will let her play tennis, golf or basketball with us; we will tolerate a Sunday bloomer baseball game with her 
but we won't let her slap our faces." 

as 




Education and Its Enemies 
(The ALUMNUS is happy to present here Professor Staunton's address to the graduating class at the convocation of Feb. 28, 1945, in Washington Hall. Alumni everywhere wiU find the address to be an exceptionally incisive comment­ary on education in these times.—Eds.) 
In a stimulating but somewhat pessimistic book recently published by Professor Barzun of Boston, entitled "Teacher in America", occurs the follow­ing significant quotation: "As we have become skeptical of other cures for the ills of the nation we have clung the more desperately to "education" as the universal panacea. Education is to do everything the rest of the world leaves undone. And it must waste no time. All is lost if education has not made a boy into an ideal citizen by the time he is 21. For education stops, even for the favored, with the A.B. Few Americans conceive of ,it as the lifelong discipline of the individual by himself, encouraged by a reasonable opportunity to lead a good life." 
What Is Education? 

I wish to call your attention to that last sentence, for it contains the Catholic idea of education, and stresses the reason why we call this occasion a "com­mencement". And I do not agn:ee with Professor Barzun's pessimism, for reasons which I shall presently empha­size. However, in order to remind our­selves of the precise meaning of the terms' we are using, let us briefly define what the Catholic student means by "education." 
I am convinced that the "sales resist­ance" put up by many of our students during their college courses ( I am not, of course, suspecting that any of you had such a sales resistance) represents a true instinct of prudence and common 
They Are Enumerated Here As: Mood (Instead of Conviction), Prejudice and Plrepaganda. 
By HENRY C F. STAUNTON Professor of English 

sense. "It is not," the student seems to say, "that I object to your presenting me with this, the ten thousandth fact yon have assigned me in this course, bat what I want to know is: What am I going to do with it?" 
And the student is quite right, by all the standards of Socrates, Aristotle Cicero, Newman, and Dr. Kuntz. Edu­cation is not the mere filing away of fact after fact in that beautifully con­structed but still animal and material filing cabinet which we call the brain. The contents of that organ (and how necessary a filing cabinet is in every efficient business office!) is merely to contain facts, to connect them by a wonderful but apparently mechanical system of cross reference called "asso­ciations," and to be ready to produce the proper stimulus of reaction, to an­swer the call of the total organism for appropriate response to the g^iven situa­tion. How wonderfully this memory-association does its work is known to every one who is fond of animals—the "seeing eye dog" is truly a supreme example of what sense-perception, mem­ory, and training can produce. But to 
PBOFESSOB H. C. F. STAUNTON 

talk of a dog as being "educated" is to 
confuse the natoie of education 'with 
that of instruction altogether. Han ia 
more than the cleverest of animals; be 
is made in the Image of God, pare and 
immortal spirit. "The Lord God made 
man of the slime of the earth, and 
breathed into his face the breath of 
life,' and man became a living souL" 
Hence his ability to understand nni­
versals, hence his power to reason and to 
penetrate into the mysteries of the uni­
verse; hence his impatience -with mere 
facts on a nominalistie plane, and bis 
insistence that he be tanght (to 'use 
the language of Cardinal Newman) "to view many things at once as one whole, to refer them severally to their true place in the universal system, to under­stand their' respective values, and to determine their mutual dependence." 
V 

That intellectual {wwer is what ire hope to have instilled into you here at Notre Dame, my dear students, aa a lasting habit and a human right, and ­if we have at any time ministered to a mere intellectnal curiosity (as Matt­hew Arnold caUed it) it has been only with the expectation that there will grow in you throughout life the habit of reasoning in ever eiilarging con­centric circles, till yon understand God's plan and God's purpose in the whole of this wonderful universe; nay, more. For since as Carlyle aaya the Universe it­self is only a reflection of the differen­tiated perfections of its Creator, your education 'will carry your mind up and on till you find (-with apologies to Alex­ander Pope) that the proper study of mankind is God. 
CoBTictioB—Not Mood 

And now that I have reminded yon what that "education" is which this University has declared you ready to COMMENCE using in your daOy mental life; let us together consider some of the grave obstacles which the present' age has allowed or encouraged to the 
proper and effective use of reason, the fruit of your education. And the first of these is the too frequent modern habit of surrendering to a mood rather than to a conviction. 
I say "modem habit". You do not need to be told that mere animals act solely by moods, not on convictions. You do not need to be told that uneducated men, or men who do not use their reason, are swayed largely by moods. You do not need to be told that "mood" is the explanation of the so-called "mob spirit", which is so dangerous when a crowd is stampeded into sudden action, and there is no leader who can make them, as the expressive phrase goes: "listen to reason." In fact, "mood", being a reaction of the body, is com­municable without speech from one liv­ing creature to another; this natural principle accounts for the migrations of birds, of seals; the spectacle of a column of army ants, five abreast, extending for miles across country in perfect order, and innumerable other behaviorisms of birds, beasts and insects. We all know of colonies of animals ruled apparently by a collective mind. Contrast this with the unique and personal character of each human soul; our moods may be communicated to another; pur convic­tions never, unless by the free accept­ance of a free will. So long as we understand all this; so long as we keep our moods in subjection by prudence, temperance, and the intelligent action of the mind, moods can do no harm. But when man denies his own dignity, when in his psychology, his political action, and his training of youth in the schools he consciously builds on merely animal instincts, he becomes a danger to him­self and to the race. It is not without significance that it is in Germany, where the possibility of true knowledge was first formally denied by Kant and his followers, that mass emotions have been exalted to the dignity of a religion, that the schools have been prostituted to the teaching of lies, and that the irrational conduct and ideas of one man have led to the ruin of a great country. 
Tlie Pott-War World 
To those who pride themselves that they are always governed by reason, and never by fearful or wishful think­ing, I would call their attention to what is at this time perhaps the most popular subject in newspapers, maga­zines, and unscholarly books: our future in the post-war world. On this question almost all feel very optimistic—or very pessimistic. I say "feel", for there is really very little reasoning involved. There exist, it is true, reasoned fore­casts of what the future will bring. Of these, Spengler presents the pessimistic view and Sorokin the optimistic. But have you read either of these or similar books? When you analyze it, does not your anticipation of good or bad after the War rest on the most trivial of im­pressions? 

There seems to be every ground for pessimism in the world outlook today. Let me present you with some of the opinions of the recent daily press. "This second World War within one genera­tion brings with it the threat of a series of world-wide and increasingly destruc­tive wars. In every country looms the apparent alternative of economic dis­aster or else the communistic system. The increasing applicability of the ma­chine seems to foretell increasing masses of unemployed. World-wide depressions seem to come more frequently and last longer. Our stock-pile of natural re­sources is dreadfully depleted; the end of our oil, our tin, our copper, our lumber, and our coal, we are told, is very near. National jealousies and en­mities are increasing. "No God" is now written on the pedestal where "To the Unknown God" was inscribed not long ago. The philosophy of Kant has ended forever the hope of knowing the real nature of the world in which we live; and worse. Morality, dear to Kant him­self, is now becoming a relative and sub­jective illusion." So much for the press. Now how easy to apply this point of view to your own future. You gfraduates are going into a world of chaos and ruin; to be drafted into armies, or to be submerged in the returning crowd of veterans to whom a job is due; while the hope of some day amassing a fortune has forever vanished under the stem tax regime of today and of the future. Have you not cause to be pessimistic? 
The Roseate Picture 

We seem to have preserved in the lit­erature of every past generation the works of some such Jeremias seated among the ruins of his world. On the other hand, there is in each generation some Elias soaring into the heavens, even if only on the wings of fancy. You have (again from the daily press) the follow­ing roseate picture. "The present debacle of Germany has proven forever the im­potence of mere Furcht und Drang. The world now feels its essential unity as never before. Bussia has tried atheism and is now returning to God; there are no atheists in the fox holes; the divisive spirit of protestantism has at length spent its force, and a new spirit of friendship and tolerance is everywhere on the rise; the cooperation lately in­itiated between nations in peril will deepen and widen after the peace, social 
security, hospitalization, education for all, the enforcement of a living wage— all these will render saving for old age and for posterity a thing of the past, and depression will vanish when goods and not money are the desired end of all effort. And such goods! The papers even now are full of pictures of the new houses, built of indestructible glass and air-conditioned throughout, of the new plastic cars, convertible into helicopters at will, whenever speed or variety attracts us, of new and beautiful clothes of iridescent spun glass, of new cheap and delicious foods, of new medi­cines of unbelieveable potency and scope, of new programs on new radios appeal­ing to both ear and eye. "Men like Gods", said H. G.Wells; let us remember how small a portion of that destined path from the animal to the Infinite we have so far trodden, and let us exult in the entelechy which will make man the heir of all nature." So the Press. Again, you may apply this point of view to yourselves. You graduates are celebrat' ing the commencement of your life work at the happiest time; the end of the War is close at hand; you have been able to complete your college work in record time; and you will be in demand for jobs and well dug in by the time your elder brothers return. 
Educated Men Are Wiier 

These njopds of optimism, or pessi­mism, of course, are only two of thous­ands of .examples equally arbitrary of how the uneducated man forms his hopes or dreads. You, as educated men, are going to be wiser. First and fore­most, as we should always do, let us turn to the example of Christ, Whose human nature is perfect. He again and again holds Himself up to us, (as, being also God, He has a right to do) as the Son of Man, in Hebrew idiom meaning the example of what humanity should be. Christ was neither an optimist nor a pessimist. When Christ asked the Apos­tles "Whom do men say that I, the Exemplar of man, am?" the Apostles gave the Gallup poll which they had gathered from the multitudes: "Some say Elias, others Jeremias." If you are familiar wih the Old Testament, with the breezy joviality of Elias jeering at the prophets of Baal who sought to slay him, and with the desolate sadness of Jeremias mourning over the deserted Jerusalem, you will see that the Jews, like ourselves, were temperamentally given to moods. The pessimists thought Christ too optimistic; the .optimists thought Him too pessimistic. And Christ censures this childish adherence to moods: "The men of this genera­tion," said He, "are like children, call­ing to one another and saying:- 'We 
have piped to you and you have not danced; we have sung dirges, and you have not wept.'" 
Think the Mood Away 

Or if either of these two attitudes of mind culled from the papers governs you today, my brother students, I ask you as educated men to think the mood away for yourselves. Optimism and Pessimism are only equally groundless ways of looking at the same thing. They are equally remote from the true reali­ties of life. As says Kipling: 
"If you can meet with triumph and disaster 
And treat those two impostors just the same; 

Yours is the world and cverythinff that's in it; 
And—which is more—^you'll be a Man, my son!" 
Do not let pessimism daunt you. "Re­member always, Henry," said an old friend to me when I was a boy, "God made this world and all the fools in it at the same time; and so He made the world fool-proof." I have never for­gotten the homely wisdom of that re­mark. Since Christ foretold that at the end of the world men's hearts should fail from fear of what was coming, has not every century been sure that that end was near? Stevenson, in his Aes Triplex, knew well that perpetually dis­mal spirit, and disowned it. For always, looking back, we can see the hand of the Helmsman in history, and hear that calm utterance in the midst of the tem­pest: "Peace, be still." God allows evil only that He may bring from it a greater good. And all the world's folly and hate and waste of resources cannot defeat the purpose of God, unless indeed by ignorance and despair we defeat it within our own free souls. 
"What Shall It. Profit a Man?" 

But as the educated man cannot be a pessimist, so neither can he be an optim­ist. Granted the new discoveries, the new houses, the new foods, medicines, radios, luxuries and conveniences of all kinds, with these and because of these we are not going to be a degree happier, a degree nearer satisfaction, than we are today, or, for that matter, than our great, great grandfathers were in 1783. "A man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things "which he pos­sesseth," another wise saying, this time from the lips of the Master Himself. "What shall it profit a man, if he gain the whole world, yet suffer the loss of his own soul?" Are there no lines of discontent in the faces of the rich? Were there no beaming faces in the days of poverty and manual labor? The fact is that both of these opposed pictures of the future, which exercise so much in­fluence on our conduct today, are merely moods resting each on one unessential 
and unproven prophecy: "There will be difficulties", say the pessimists. In the expressive language of the practical man: "So what?" Man's happiness lies in overcoming difficulties. "There will be gadgets", say the optimists. So what? Will these solve the problems of the soul? 
I have spoken thus at length about what Kant might have called the "anti­nomy" of optimism and pessimism, be­cause this is only one good example among many of the illusions from which your education is designed to free you, putting your minds, on principles and not on scattered ideas. The only perma­nent value of a fact is as a rung in the ladder of Wisdom, not to stand and rest on, but to make possible our ascent toward absolute, not relative, truth. And were we not children, it would be ap­palling to realize what an overwhelming majority of the human race base their actions and their decisions on mere moods, mere feelings, not on "I know that this is so" but on "I feel that this must be so." I say "were we not chil­dren." For we know that, wherever there is a child, there is a Father, watching with unwearied patience those faltering steps by which the child ap­proaches, and ready to raise him if he falls, and set him on his feet again, that he may take the next step aright. 
But the child must not expect to be carried by the father. This life is a training school for that which makes us Men. As our body was carried in the womb of our mother for nine long dark months, until it developed enough to exist alone, so our reason, that spark of the divine Spirit within us, must be carried in the womb of the body until it is strong enough to dispense with matter. As the body before birth, so now the rational soul before death— Self-consciousness, Intellect, and Will— must grow before we are ready to be bom into immortal existence. Do not get the idea that even if we have taught you to look for principles in order to understand and apply facts, that your education is finished. We do not call this occasion a conclusion, but a com­mencement. As Our Lord said: "If you know these things, blessed shall you be if you do them." 
A Missionary of Education 

And "doing", in this social world of ours, does not mean forming wise and moderate judgments of our own, but it means also educating others to form them also. Every educated man is a mission­ary of education. Every Notre Dame man should be a fighter for whatever is true and good in the world. If you fail to set your face openly against the snap judgments of the world, of your friends, of your associates, of your representatives in Congress, of all those whom you should influence, you are hiding your gold piece of education in a napkin. Yon will remember what happened in the Gospel to the man who did this. He lost his gold piece, because he had not put it in drenlation. If yon do not teach others through your educa­tion, you will lose your education. If you do not influence others to think, instead of merely feel, they will influence you to feel, and not to think. The alibi behind which you will shelter yourself is that of humility. "Who am I that I should teach others?" But this is a false humility. St. Francis de Sales speaks of the false humility of those who refuse to labor for the salvation of souls under a pretext of incapacity. Let us contrast with this what humility really is and does. 
Among the many sjrmbolic monuments with which the campus of Notre Dame is enriched, there is one which no graduate of Notre Dame will ever forget. I am not speaking of the bomb-shell which suggestively stands outside the window of the Prefect of Discipline. I am speak­ing of the statue of that Woman after whom our University is named, which stands on .the golden dome which is, as it were, the hub of the University. 
The Most Perfect Person 

Why did God select Mary, as He fore­told in the first book of the Bible, "to bruise the serpent's head"? Why has He exalted her, as we read in the last book of the Bible, as the Queen of Heaven: "a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars"? Both by Revelation and in prayer we know her as the most perfect human person­ality ever created; for Our Lord's Personality was not created, and it was not human, but divine. Yet in history Mary was a poor, unknown, simple Jewish maiden. God did not force her to become the Mother of His Son. What won that privilege for her was her utter humility. Consider what she was asked to do: To bear as a child the mighty God Who fills the Heavens and sustains all thingfs; to teach that Eternal Wisdom the rudiments of human language—and all that a child must learn—^for although. Our Lord in His divine nature knew all things, and could infuse that knowledge into His human intellect at any moment. He chose that that intellect should be 
' instructed by His parents, and that He should increase in wisdom as a man does; she was to have parental authority over the All-Powerful, Who as we are told was subject unto His parents; she was to do all this without the slightest 
trace of self-consciousness or of pride; and this, my friends, was a miracle of Humility. That we might realize this, the secret was revealed in the Song- of Mary, the Magnificat, spoken under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. "My soul doth magnify the Lord, because He hath regarded the humility of His hand-maid, for behold from henceforth all genera­tions shall call me blessed. He hath put down the mighty from their seat, and hath exalted the humble." But mark: lest the utter humility of Mary should take fright at such words, for humility does not boast of itself, in her own con­sciousness she was but pouring forth the Song which Anna, the Mother of Samuel, sang at the birth of her first bom child, and which you as well as Mary will find in the second chapter of the first book of the Kings. Such is humility: and those who fear to do their duty and who prate of their humility may be ashamed, when they think of the stupendous burden, not without its seven sorrows and its tremendous re­sponsibility for our race, which Our Lady took upon herself without a sec­

ond's hesitation — because it was the wish of God. 
And now, for my time is running short, and there is much to say, let me call more briefly to your attention a second enemy of education: prejudice. 
You have been taught at Notre Dame both by precept and by example how a grown man is to use his mind. I have no fear but that experience will show y«u that what you have been taught is true. Let the world rush madly from the heights of joy to the depths of de­spair, and back again to the heights of anticipation—^you will hear all that is to be said on both sides, but will balance one side against the other and reserve judgment till all the evidence is in. You will then as truly educated men be free from prejudices of all kinds. 
What Are Prejudices? 

For what are prejudices? They are not, like moods or feelings, a negation of or a substitute for thought. But they are the judgments, the attitudes, the de­cisions we make before all the evidence is heard, in our blind hurry to be, as we say, "on the right side." And when once allowed they fasten more and more their tentacles upon us. From some friend­ship or some half-understood idea we have come to take sides; at first we seek only for arguments against the other side, to be sure we are right; we pass by arguments against that side which we have made our own. At length any witness whatever in favor of the other side becomes increasingly unwelcome to us; we do not listen; we will not listen; we imist not listen. Then we hold aloof from the multitudes who believe the other side; they are either knaves or fools; we have no patience with them, no sympathy for them. Finally we hate them, and no stick is too poor to beat them with. 
Is this an exaggerated picture? Ex­amples of this state of mind are on every side of us, for only the truly educated man is free from prejudice. What ideas do we read about England in the press of today? England is backward; Eng­land is snobbish; England is unprinci­pled; England is using us only to pull its chestnuts out of the fire. What of Russia? Ah, there is the world's great­est danger; Russia is sold to Anti-christ, Russia is secretly planning our ruin; Russia is insincere; Russia is the enemy of God and man; Russia is out to form a world-empire on the ruins of other nations. 
What about the Catholic Church? Oh, I know, my dear students, that you will not join the world here; your prejudices on this subject are on the other side; you have some reason to be Catholic and you do not wish more; you do not know nor want to know the vast riches of your own side, nor can you explain them to others. But you do not listen to the charges brought by the Church's op­ponents, and your idea of proving them false is hatred and a shouted denial. You may even be afraid that some of these charges may be true, and afraid to investigate lest you may discover cor­ruption, while on the other side the opposite prejudice rolls on unanswered by you: (I quote again) "You Catholics don't believe what you profess; you are superstitious; you are ignorant of his­tory, and even of your own bible; you seek political power; your monasteries and convents are prisons, and there are secret arms and powder in the basements of your churches; you worship the Pope as God, and you teach that every non-Catholic will go to Hell." And so forth. Do I need to go on? Everywhere around us seethe the cross-currents of prejudice. The Republican against the Democrat; the Christian against the Jew; the White man against the Negro; the Yankee against the Southerner; the town against the country; the Kantia n against the Realist ; the relativist against the dogma tist; the secular against the religious college; Jack Sprat against his wife. 
About Converting People 

Someone will say, "Well, what of it? John Stuart Mill said that such differ­ences were the essence of Liberty. Are you a Quietist? Don't you believe in acting on any side until all the evidence 
is in on both sides? And in that case would you ever act at all? To make the matter concrete: would you accept with equanimity evidence against your own Catholic Religion?" To which answer: Certainly we must all act on a basis of probability (I am here leaving out of consideration the supernatural gift of Faith) but we must always be willing to listen to our most bitter enemies. In any secular matter perhaps they may have half the truth and we the other half; we would be better off to have the whole. And regarding your question about my Religion: I believe in the Catholic Religion in its every detail because first, there is a God Who knows everything; second, because that God has revealed every truth of my Religion; and third, because the Catholic Church throughout the ages has added nothing to that necessarily true revelation. But if you have any proof that there is no God; or if you have any proof (not feel­ing) that He never has spoken to men; or if you can prove, knowing all the facts, that the Catholic Church has changed or added to God's revelation— bring on your proof, and in all charity we will consider it together. If you can prove the Catholic Religion to be a lie, you will have converted me. But will you listen to me while I prove to you that it is the Truth?—Try that last question on Mr. Someone, my Catholic friend, if you doubt the existence of prejudice, and you will find that you will not be overburdened in instructing con­verts. 
A Prime Object of Education 

So much for prejudice. Its removal is a prime object of education. The gfrowth of learning, the multiplication of facts, the increasing complexity of our knowledge of the Universe, and the necessary reduction of that complexity if we are to understand and act rightly —^all this today adds to the diflSculty of true education, but makes true education for every thinking man ten-fold im­portant. 
Again a monument of Notre Dame supplies the key of how we may win the world against prejudice. Facing the statue of Our Lady across the Quad­rangle is the- beautiful statue of the Sacred Heart. Our Lord bared His Heart to His opponents; in the words of Isaias, He did not contend, or cry out, neither did any hear His voice in the streets; but He spoke the Truth in Love. You cannot break down prejudice by arguments; prejudice will not listen to argument. But you can break down prejudice through love, and if, as in Christ's case, the worst comes to the worst, and your love wins only insults, then a cross, and finally a last bitter spear-thrust through that heart which refuses to return hate for hate, you will at least convert others; there will be some standing by whose prejudices will fall away, and in that hour of apparent defeat these will say with newly opened eyes: "Truly this man was a son of God!" 
The Advance of Propagandu 

My third and last point is that not all that is called education today is truly so. The modem world and especially the Catholic college is today confronted 
' by a determined movement, which unless we use every care will destroy education as we have outlined it—^the ability to gather new knowledge from all sides and to relate this knowledge intelligently to each and every one of life's problems, with a mind open to the truth and to nothing but the truth. The opposing movement, which is advancing by leaps and bounds today, and which is fast assuming-the dignity of a science, is Propaganda—the discovery by the un­scrupulous and uneducated of what has long been understood by educators: that if you take youth early enough and exer­cise complete control you can distort the mind into any ideology whether false or true, and in many cases set up a Sieg­fried Line which is well-nigh impregna­able against either argument or persua­sion. There is no need to labor this matter. The success of the Nazi Youth Movement and the almost insane credu­lity and prejudice in those, and only those, who have been indoctrinated by its methods, speaks more plainly than I, in the time allowed me, could possibly find words to-do. 
Propaganda Not Sinful 

Not that Propaganda is sinful. Our adversaries might with some reason reply that they owe this system to the Jesuits. St. Ignatius is reported to have said: "Give me a child until he attains the age of seven, and I care not what yon may do with him after." The age of seven is commonly considered the age at which the child becomes capable of the use of reason; and if Ignatius was right this simply means that pre-educa­tion can so shut the doors and windows of the soul that (again prescinding from Grace) no true reason can enter. Of course if you, during those seven years, indoctrinate the child with belief in God or any other true principle, the child can and will as it grows older draw deductions by the thousand from that principle, until he has built up an entire system of natural theology, and a true system at that. But it is equally true, that if you indoctrinate the child with disbelief in God or any other false prin­ciple, the boy can and will build all his 
trains of sorites from that fatal false first premise. I am not saying that Igna­tius of Loyola was wholly right nor have I forgotten that there is such a thing as the Grace of God; but that this method, named from the Latin of the Jesuits and employed to such good purpose in their missionary and educational work, was phenomenally successful—of that there can be no doubt. And now that the great governments of the world, and certain powerful factions in our own country, are appreciating that fact, and using every means to secure for the State the future absolute control of what they term education, it behooves all edu­cators and all educated men to under­stand what education is and whait educa­tion does, and not to allow our schools to be used to stifle the moral liberty of the mind. 
Build Upon Patriotism 

Not that all those who in our free America seek government control of the schools seek to destroy free thought. The present purpose of many of these is to build upon the foundation of Patriotism. But bearing in mind that just as we assert that protestantism can have no divine revelation of its own, since no two of its churches can interpret the teaching or the Person of Christ in the same way, so we point to the whole world today set by the ears in the name of Patriotism and for the defence of Patriotism, and it is essential for us to insist that patriotism is after all, a second principle, and not a first, and that before we are called upon to sacri­fice our lives for our government, we must be assured that that government derives its just rights not from the con­sent of the governed, as Locke main­tained and our founders echoed, but from the fact that true governments are and act as the ministers of our common Father and Creator, God. We do not deny the efficiency of totalitarianism) the public enemy number one of the world today, but we will set our face against it or any step of approach to it so long as it opposes and is exalted above all that is called God, or that is worshipped, so that it sits in the Temple of God and gives itself out as if it were God.' We see only too clearly in Europe today what happens to those who resist the dogmatism of high power, when that power demands the sacrifice of soul as 
well as of body to the irresponsible State. We do not think that America will ever yield to changes which destroy the liberty of the citizen to think and act. But we will resist any step in that direction, for all corruption of high ideals descends by unnoticed steps to lower and lower standards. Notre Dame has fought in the forefront of Liberal 
Education for over a hundred years. And I hope and pray that we may IK^ mortgage our freedom for any degree of government support. It is our priinlege to help the government; not the duty of the government to hdp us. So much for the third enemy of education—the plac­ing of its centers and of its teKhers under government eontroL May tins enony never arise to menace the liberty of our country! 
Yet, though there is no time to diseoas this subject, you should never forget that "propaganda" today is by no means re­stricted to government propaganda, or concerned only with youth. It is active in social circles, in newspapers, maga­zines, and books. Yon should be donbly ; careful never to accept a view-point which you have not made your own, by examining carefully the facts, on wUdi it is based, and by using your education to form a correct and just estimate of the true or false value of those facts. 
Loyalty to Ideak 

Graduates of Notre Dame: as we trust you will be loyal all your lives to Notre Dame^ and to the principles of true edu­cation which yon have learned within our Halls, so we pledge ourselves to be loyal to you. We shall watch with affec­tion and interest your earthly interests and success, knowing that whatever these may be, there is ripening forever within you that which is made in the Image of the Triune God: your Self-consciousness, your Intellect, and your Win. We send you forth, as I have said^ as missionaries in the cause of true edu­cation, and as fighters for whatever is true and good in the world. And you will find unexpected comradeship with those who have never seen the golden dome of Notre Dame. Thronghont the country Notre Dame is known and loved. No college in the country has such a iKist of what we have smilingly termed "syn­thetic alumni". Why? Other colleges have good courses; other colleges play good football. But we are loved becanae of the conviction and confidence (and heaven help as if we ever through onr own fault lose that confidence) that we teach only what we sincerely believie, and we play the game for the love of it; and if the game goes against us, will be sportsmen, gentiemen, and henws to the very end. Very well then, let ns humbly live up to that expectation. Graduates of Notre Dame, your college training is finished, the game of life, is before you, yon have the ball; dont grouse, don't clip, don't fumble, but re­solve that 
Wbat'tlioiisli^^the odds be sio t or smdlji::^ Old. Notre pame win win over alL r:'"iC~ While her logral sons are mardiinE Onward to Victory! 
By lOHN FEEMEY Scholastic Sports Writer 


ATHLETICS 
Foofboff 
BULLETIN 
Harrjr Jacnnski, New Britain, Conn., 
Fordham graduate in 1939, joined the 
Notre Dame football (taff as end coach 
on April 3. After playing end for three 
years at Fordham, he played for six 
years with the Green Bay Packers. 
Hugh Devore, '34, as you've read else­. where, is currently the acting director "of athletics and head coach at Notre 
Dame, succeeding Ed McKeever, ex. '33, 
who held the post for a year. Ed, on 
April 1, became the head football coach 
at Omell University, Ithaca, N. Y. 
Assisting Hughie in football at present are Wally Ziemba, '43, a holdover, and Ken Stilley, '36, as line coaches and Gene Bonzani as backfield coach. Jake Klein, '21, baseball coach, wiU help on the grridiron next fall. 
Gone from the athletic staif, in ad­
dition to McKeever, are Clem Crowe, '26, 
head basketball coach and assistant foot­
ball coach for the past year; Adam 
Walsh, '25, assistant football coach for 
a year; and Creighton Miller, '44, who 
assisted in coaching the backfield last 
fall. . 
Clem on April 1 began his new job 
as head football coach of the University 
of Iowa, succeeding Slip Madigan, '20. 
On leave of absence from Xavier Univ­
ersity, Cincinnati, the father of the nine 
Crowes filled in at Notre Dame for Lt. 
Ed Krause, '34, who is with the Marines 
in the Pacific. Adam Walsh moved to the 
Cleveland Bams, pro football team, as 
head coach, joining his brother Chile, 
'28, general manager of the Earns. Adam 
was on leave of absence from Bowdoin. 
Creighton Miller became a backfield 
assistant at Yale, where he is enrolled 
in the law school. 
Hugh Devore, now sitting in for Lt. Frank Leahy, '31, serving with the Navy in the Pacific, was co-captain of the 1933 team, and a remarkable end in 1931-32­
33. His coaching experience, until he came to Notre Dame for the 1943 sea­son,, had been at Fordham as an assist­ant, at Providence College as head coach and at Holy Cross College as an assist­ant. 
Ken Stilley, one of the stand-out tack­les in his era, and particularly in the ever-remembered 1935 Ohio State game, is back on the campus after extensive and successful high school coaching ex­perience in Allentown, Clairton, and 
HUGH J. DEVORE, '34 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Gene Bonzani, outstand­ing at Marquette University as a play­er and equally outstanding later as a Chicago Bear player, will, out of the wealth of his experience with the "T" formation, direct the destinies of the 1945 backfield. 
Ed McKeever went to Cornell follow­ing a year of extraordinary success at Notre Dame as Frank Leahy's pro-tem successor. Taking a group of varied ages, talents, sizes and experience, the Mr. Personality-plus from Texas put to­gether a 1944 football team that lost only to Army and Navy. Ed came to Notre Dame with Frank Leahy in 1941 from Boston College. Earlier he coached at Texas Tech, where he had played as an undergraduate and had received his bachelor's degree, following his fresh­man year at Notre Dame. 
Pat FiUey, '45, South Bend captain of both the '43 and '44 football teams, accompanied Ed McKeever to Cornell as a football assistant. 



Spring Football 
Spring football sessions began on March 21 with 54 candidates reporting to new head coach Hugh Devore and his assistants. The practices will continue for 30 days. Devore also plans to con­duct summer drills. 
Of the group checking out equipment —^the smallest ntmiber in years—only four were letter winners last fall. They are regrulars Bob Skoglund, end; Ehner Angsman, full-back; and reserves Pete Berezney, tackle, and John Mastrangelo, guard. Devore also hopes to have the services of three additional monogram winners—quarterback Frank Dancewicz, center Frank Szymanski, and guard Fred Bovai. These men are not enrolled at the University at present but are ex­pected to return in July to begin the summer semester. Added to these will be inexperienced, under-draft-age fresh­men, a few 4-F's, and some naval train­ees and some returned veterans. 

Over the years, Notre Dame's record is 341 wins, 75 losses and 27 ties in 56 seasons. The winning percentage, ties disregarded, is .820. The Irish have not been defeated by a college team since Michigan accomplished the feat back in 1942. Great Lakes was a surprise winner in 1943 and the service academies meas­ured the Blue and Gold last fall. 
Baseball 

When Clarence "Jake" Kline, veteran Irish baseball coach, issued a call for candidates for the 1945 Irish nine, 70­odd hopefuls, including three monogram men, responded. Favored by mild tem­peratures, the diamond aspirants have been ablie to practice outside consistently. The returning lettermen are Frank Gil­hooley, outfielder; Jack Barrett, pitcher; and Frank Ciszczon, third baseman. Many others of promise are taking part in early drills, including varsity basket­ball men Billy Hassett and Johnny Dee. 

Outdoor Track 
Two home meets are included on the schedule for the outdoor track team. The trackmen will open their season at home against DePauw and will engage in a dual meet with Illinois at home. 
The schedule is as follows: April 21, DePauw, here; April 27-28, Drake Be­lays; May 5, Drake, Iowa Preflight, Wis­consin, at Iowa City; May 12, State meet, Bloomington; May 19, Illinois, here; May 26, Western Michigan, at Kal­amazoo; June 2, Central Collegiates, at Milwaukee; June 9-16, Nationals (date and site not yet chosen). 
Coach Elvin B. "Doc" Handy will this spring be without the all-around strength that has characterized many Notre Dame track teams in later years. Bill Tuily, standout runner,.and stand­out tennis player too, looks like the leading point getter of the season. 


Indoor Trock 
. Notre Dame's 1943 indoor track squad participated in seven meets in February and March. 
Opening the season, the Irish easily walloped Western Michigan, 70-34. A week later Notre Dame ranked high in a field of eight teams in the Michigan Relays. No team scores were kept. Feb. 17, in a triangnilar with Illinois and Ohio State, the Irish suffered their first defeat as the Illini won the meet and the Bucks came in second. 
Purdue and Iowa Pre-Flight School visited N.D. for another triangular, on Feb. 24, in which the Hawks outscored their rivals with 53% points to Notre Dame's 47^/4 and Purdue's 28. At the Central Collegiate Conference cham­pionships the Handymen notched fourth place laurels with 253/^ points. Drake was .first with 35. 
In the annual Chicago Relays, the Irish mile-relay quartet finished first, and on March 24, the Blue and Gold closed the campaign by tallying six points for eighth ranking in the Purdue Relays. 
Goff 
The Notre Dame golf team, national intercollegiate champions last year, will engage in seven matches, in addition to competing in the National Collegiate Athletic Association meet. 
Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, golf coach, asembled his squad March 26, for the first time. The only returning vet­erans of last years' team, beaten only once, are Jim Clynes and Tom Kennedy. 
The schedule calls for dual matches with Detroit, Wisconsin, Purdue, Mich­igan, Wayne, and Michigan' and Mich­igan State in addition to a triangular meet with Northwestern and Minnesota. The card will close with the N.C.A.A. tourney, June 25, at a place to be chosen. 

Tennis 
Practice is under way for a sizeable group of tennis candidates, under the handling of Walter M. Langford, tennis coach. Langford issued the call for the netsters, March 24, and had a large response. 
Returning from last year's aggrega­tion, which tied for the national cham­pionship, are Charley Samson, who was beaten in the national finals by Pancho Segura; Bill TuUy, and Jim Griffin, re­spectively the first, third, and fourth ranking men. Only Jerry Evert is gone from the "big four" of 1944. Of the newcomers, Ralph Baiocchi of Chicago 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
has shown the best form in early work­outs. George Ratterman, versatile ath­lete, also is highly regarded and will compete if he finds time from his base­ball and spring football • to join the Langfordmen. 
The schedule will include Northwest-em, Michigan, Wisconsin, Western Mich­igan, Lawrence and possibly Marquette. 


Basketball 
Notre Dame's basketball closed its 1944-45 season with a record of 15 vic­tories and five losses. And the team broke almost every Notre Dame offensive rec­ord in existence. 
Beginning their campaign with a re­sounding 89-28 triumph over Kellogg Field and culminating it by routing De­troit University, 87-43, the Clem Crowe lads maintained a 62-plus offensive aver­age for 20 games. All told, they netted 1,241 points, to supplant the former high of 1,095, racked up by the 1908 team. 
With the ledger readii.g nine victories and three losses (as recorded in the February ALUMNUS), the Irish invaded Louisville, Jan. 27, to defeat the scrappy Wildcats of Kentucky U., 59-58, in an overtime thriller before a capacity throng of 6,000. Diminutive Johnny Dee of Chicago won for the Irish with his one-handed swisher in the final seconds • of the extra period. 
The following Friday in the Chicago Stadium against George Mikan and his DePaul mates, the Irish, for 26 minutes outdid Ray Meyer's Blue Demons, lead­ing at half time, 33-24. After that, how­ever, the Demons rallied brilliantly to edge ahead at the final gun, 56-52. In 
HIGH SCOBER VINCE BOBYLA 
21 

a game that many think decided the national championship, Mikan's tremen­dous height was an important factor as the Demons' All-American poured in 20 points. 
Twenty-fonr hours later Crowe's club returned to the same court to whip an inexperienced and unorganized North­western quintet, 56-37. In Hadiaon Square Garden, New York City, the Irish upset the New York University Violets, 66-60, before a reeord attendance of 18,120, leading all the way behind the superb shooting of Ratterman and center Vince Boryla of East Chicago, Ind., each of whom accounted for 24 I>oints. 
Followed victories over the Iowa Sea-hawks, 51-38; Northwestern, 71-66; and Detroit. In between, was Marquette's very npset victory in Milwaukee, 56-55. At Notre Dame earlier, the Irish had won 79-56 from Marquette, and the local lads obviously couldn't erase the ease of that victory from their minds when they hit Milwaukee. They were reckon­ing without the 30 points which brilliant Gene Burse contributed for the Hilltop­pers. 
In the Detroit game, Vince Boryla scored 31 points,. a new N.D. record. Boryla's aggregate for the year was 322, another new record, replacing Leo Klier's total of 293, scored a year ago. Vince's average was a satisfying 16.1 a game. His 13 field goals ag^ainst Detroit giiye him another mark. 
Billy Hassett of New York City, for­mer Georgetown luminary and sparkplug of the Irish this year, chalked up a new record for guards by hitting for 22 points in the first game against Mar­quette. Hassett-^an almost unanimous All-American—was also given a guard position on the star team consisting of players who appeared in the Chicago Stadium this year. 
Second to Boryla in point-making was Johnny Dee with 251. George Ratterman placed third, with 234, and Hassett was fonrth with 164. 
B / rolling some 89 points against Kellogg Field, the Irish bypassed all previous scoring accomplishments by a Notre Dame team in a single contest. Less than two weeks later they scored a staggering 91 against Loras to estab­lish the hi ^ maifc that still stands. 
All told, the Irish under Clem Crowe^ '26, now left for Iowa, enjoyed a really successful year. Crowe did a magnifi­cent job of moulding a flashy, powerful unit, using for the most part, inexper­ienced players with whom he didnt have the chance to work at all until the dose of the football season in early Deeonber. Congratulations. 
» »

SPOTUGHT ALUMNI 
r\TT O A. EOTHERT, '92, featured by 
Marion Porter in The Courier-Jotint­al of Louisville as "the recognized au­thority on Kentucky history," resigned in Februai-y fi-om the FiJson Club, Louis­ville historical organization, a post he had held for 28 years. He will be 74 years old in June. 
Editor of the Filson Club's History Quarterly, he is also the author of sev­eral books on' various aspects of Ken­tucky history including, A History of Muhlenberg County, Madison Caicein: the Story of a Poet, The Filson Club and Its Activities and The Outlaws of Cave-in-Rock. He has also published four booklets, and numerous ai-ticles in the 
Historical Quarterly. 
In 1929 Mr. Rothert gave the Filson Club his entire collection of Kentucky Books and pamphlets, some 1,000, and his Indian relics. 
Gardening, Mr. Rothert's hobb}% has given rise, at "Forest Retreat," his sum­
—Courier-Journal and Louisville Times 
OTTO A . ROTHERT, '92 
mer home in Muhlenberg County, to the largest collection of variegated plants in the state—^"more of an arboretum than a garden," according to Mr. Porter. As a result of his gardening experience Mr. 
Rothert published in 1938 a brochure, "Forest Retreat and Its Garden." 
CHARLES H . JOHNSON, '08 

A DVANCEMENT of Charies H. John­" ^ son, '08, to the post of chief engineer of U. S. Steel's Federal shipyards at Kearny and Port Newark, N. J., was an­nounced in Januai-y by Lynn H. Korn­dorif, president. 
Mr. Johnson helped pioneer high pres­sure high temperature steam propulsion for ships, which has proved a highly im­portant factor to the U. S. Navy in the present war. He assumed his new duties after a year and nine months of leave of absence to serve as coordinator of en­gineering for the U. S. Maritime Com­mission in Washington, D. C., and ad­visor to Vice Admiral Howard L. Vick­ery, ^nce-chainnan of the commission. 
Mr. Johnson entered the employ of Federal on Jan. 1, 1920 as assistant to the chief engineer. In March, 1929, Mr. Johnson became assistant chief engineer and continued in this capacity until granted a leave for war service with the Maritime Commission. 
In October, 1908, Mr. Johnson entered the United States Coast Guard Academy Officers' School at Baltimore. He was graduated in April, 1909, and commis­sioned the following June as third lieu­tenant of engineering, a rank which now corresponds to ensign. He had been pro­moted to the rank of lieutenant com­mander as a Coast Guard engineering oificer when his resignation was accepted Nov. 30,1919. 
Mr, Johnson and his wife, reside in Bloomfield, N. J. A son, Phillip V. John­son, 23 years old, is now an officer in the Navy. Mr. Johnson is a member of the American Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, the American So­ciety of Naval Engineers, and of the Gas Turbine Coordinating Committee of the American Society of Mechanical Engi­neers, 
CLIFFORD B. WARD, '23, was on Feb. 
12 appointed editor of The Netvs-Sentinel in Fort Wayne, Ind. His ap­pointment to the highest editorial posi­tion on his paper is the climax of a career which began in June, 1923, when he was graduated froni Notre Dame in journalism and i-eturned to his native city to join The Netvs-Sentinel staff as a reporter. Later he was successively edi­torial writer, columnist and managing editor. 
Cliff has had only two brief interi-up­tions in his continuous time -with The Netvs-Sentiiiel: once, in 1928, when he 
CLIFFORD B . WARD, '23 

worked in the presidential primary and election on behalf of Herbert Hoover as his Indiana publicity director and, in 1938, when he toured England, France and Germany. 
At Notre Dame, Cliff directed acad­emic publicity for a year, was president of the Press Club and secretary to Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Journalism Department. He was also on the editorial staff of the Scholastic, the Dovie and the Notre Dame Daily and contributed to other campus publications. 
Cliff and his wife have two sons and a daughter. 
rpHOMAS J. GRIFFIN, '29, Knoxville, 
Tenn., on Dec. 16, 1944, was named solicitor for the Tennessee Valley Au­thority. At present, Tom is also acting general counsel for the TVA, with full responsibility over its legal department, carrying a double wartime load because the TVA general counsel is serving in the Navy. 
THOMAS J. GRIFFIN, '29 

-A. resident of Gary, Ind,, during his student days at Notre Dame, Tom upon his graduation became associated with the prominent Chicago law firm of May­er, Meyer, Austrian and Piatt, special­izing in corporation and banking law. In 1935 he joined the TVA as principal at­toi'ney and later became assistant gen­eral counsel and then solicitor. 
Tom and his wife have three sons, aged 13, 12 and 10. 
XpDWARD G. McCL.ALLEN, Jr., '31, 
Rutland, Vt., elected in November, 1944, as state's attorney for Rutland County (largest and most populous coun­ty in Vermont), is one of the state's lead­ing young lawyers. 
Ed's first public ofiice was that of justice of the peace and he held it for 10 consecutive years, from 1931 to 1941. In 1940 he was elected to the Board of Aldei-men of the city of Rutland and was 
S. S. Notre Dame Victory Is Launched 
At the launching of the S. S. "Notre Dame inetory" were left to right. Bev. Chories 
C. Miltner, C.S.C.; Mrs. Sidney Garfield, matron of honor, the wife of the chief medicol director of Kaiser's West Coast shipyards; William C Schmiti: Mtm. Paul de txmL the sponsor; Dr. Paul de Kruii. author-bacteriologist, who was the chief speaker at the ceremony; Todd Woodell, shipyard official. Below is Jeffrey Neighbor, flower boy. 
The spirit of Notre Dame was carried to the high seas when the S. S. Noire Dame Victory, a victory type cargo ves­sel known as an AP 3, slid down the ways on March 9 at- Henry J. Kaiser Oregon Shipbuilding Corp., Portland, Ore. The University of Notre Dame was officially represented at the ceremony by Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, '11, pres­ident of the University of Portland, who delivered the invocation, and by William 
C. Schmitt, '10, president, Schmitt Steel Co., Portland. 
The S. S. Notre Dame Victory is the 61st of its type to be buDt from designs of the maritime commission. It is 455 feet in length with a beam of 62 feet and has a dead-weight tonnageof 10,600 tons and a total displacement of 14,900 tons. It is designed to supplant the slower and less efficient liberty ship and has a speed in excess of 15 knots. Of all steel welded 
EDWARD G. MCCLALLEN', JR., '31 construction, the S. S. Notre Dame Vic­tory is arranged to carry freight or materiel of war in five main holds with 
re-elected in 1942. In that capacity he deep tanks for fuel oil and ballast. 
was chainnan of the Board of Civil Au­thority and of the Finance Committee. 
BULLETIN Governor William H. Wills appointed Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, preii­him in November, 1943, as state's at­dent, announced on April 8, that, by de­torney for Rutland County to fill a ciiion of the Navy Department, the V-12 vacancy. 

program would be continued at Notre For two yeai-s Ed has been special Dame through the next semester, starting counsel for the Federal Deposit Insur­July S, 1945. Earlier, the Navy planned ance Corp., in the liquidation of a nation­to merge the V-12 into the NROTC at al bank. Married in 1936, he is the father the end of the present semester. 
of Nancy Worth and Gregory. 
Third Annual Alumni Fund 
Contributors, Jan. I to March I, 1945 

As in the Centenary Fund, the alnmni contribotions represent alumni sifts direct to the University, thronnh the Alumni Association, or throngh the Director of PuUic Relations. 
To 1904  Total S 55.00  No. Contrib. 2  1925  1930  
Zahm, Dr. Albert P., '83  S  100.00  No. in Class  ',f Contrib.  Bartley, John A.  25.00  McGee. John  B.  s  S.OO  
Proctor, Robert E., '04  50.00  71  .03  Corcoran, John T.. Jr.  5.00  Petersen. Arthur E  — _  5.00  
Total  >'a. Contrib.  Dielmann,  William V., Jr. .  25.00  Reisert, William A.,  Jr.  5.00  
SISO.OOSo. in Clasaes263  2  9c Contrib.  .008  1917 Gargan, Joseph F. Lacey, Hugh V. —  S  25.00 10.00  Hall, Walter D. : Kennedy, Dr. Francis L.McAdams. Henry J. . Sagstetter, Paul . Traynor, John P.  »  S.OO S.00 25.00 SO.OO S.OO  Total $ 15.00 No. in Class 444  No. Contrib. 3 % Contrib. .007  
1905 to 1909 O'Connor. Daniel J., '03O'Neill, William P., '06  I  2S.00 10 00  Total S 35.00 No. in Class 108  So. Contrib. 2 ri Contrib. .019  Watson, Harold C. Wrape. James W.Tota l S255.00  ~  10.00 100.00 No. Contrib. 10  1931 Kendall, Robert D.  _  12.50  
Diskin, Michael A., '07 Carville. Hon. Edtrard P.  '09  100.00 10.00  No. in Class  % Contrib.  Lenoue. Bernard J.  3.00  
Gushurst, Aliert F., '09 Hannon. Leo J., '09 —  10.00 20.00  1918  269  .035  Tota l $ 15.50  No. Contrib. 2  
Total  .  No. Contrib.  McAuIiffe, Robert H.  S  10.00  No. in Class  %  Contrib.  
tl75.00  6  Wallace. James G. „.  80 0  1926  427  .005  
No. in Classes  ^  Contrib.  Total  No. Contrib.  
140  .043  S 15.00  2  Carson, Claude B.  25.00  
No. in Class  Cc Contrib.  Engels, Norbert A. _  25.00  1932  
61  .033  Heintz,  Charles F.  _  15.00  
I9il  Lovier, Lester L. O'Neill, Dennis J..  20.00 10.00  Kuhn, J. Regjs Harfaaugh, Noble F.  _  5.00 10.00  
Glynn, Edward J.  S  250.00  1920  Ryan, Capt. John J. .  25.00  O'Malley,  Edward  F.  5.00  
Lawton,  Jasper  H.  103.00  Walsh, Joseph A. .  10.00  Ruffing,  Cornelius J. .  25.00  
Steers, FredTotal . $378.00 No. In Class   L.  25.00 No. Contrib. 3 ^ Contrib.  Trant. James L. Ward, Leo B. Total S 20.00  S 10.00 10.00 No. Contrib. 2  Total $130.00 No. in Class  No. Contrib. 7 ^Contrib.  Total $ 45.00 No. in Class  No. Contrib. 4 % Contrib.  
27  .11  No. in Class  Cr Contrib.  326  .•21 :  532  .0075  
S3  .024  
1913 Broussard. Clyde E. Donahue. Joseph F. Fitzpatrick, Eeene P.  s  100.00 500.00 10.00  1921 Van den Boom, EugeneTotal  $ 25.00  No. Contrib.  1927 Diebold, AlfredTotal sioo.oo   J.. Jr.  $ 100.00 NcCoatrib. 1  1933 Boespfiug, John F. Breen, John P. Schwantcs, JtAn W.  ,-$_  100.00 6.00  5.00  
Rogers,  Edward  J.  15.00  $ 25.00  1  No- in Class  % Contrib.  Total  No. Contrib.  
Scbonlau, Emit C. Total  10.00 No. Contrib.  No. in Class94  rj Contrib.  .01  318  .003  $110.00 No. in Class  3 • % Contrib.  
$635.00  5  422  .007  
No. in Class 62  ^c Contrib. .08  1922  1928  
1914 Conwa>-. MorrisonKane. Eugene A. Total   A.  S 100.00 10.00 No. Contrib.  Phelan, RobertRice. John M.Total S 20.00 No. in Class 150   R.  .  s 10.00 10.00 No. Contrib. Tf Contrib. .013  Farrell, Eugene G.Finn. Edmund J. Hamilton, Robert A. Hilger, Joseph P. Kirby, Robert E Kirwan, Joseph W. McMabon, John F.  u_ _ i  10.00 S.OO  10.00 25.00 28.50 10.00 25.00  1934 Belting, Rev. George R. Buckley, Lt. John A. Carroll, L t Charles H. ­Fox, R. Michael Giorgio. L t Douglas J. _  5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 3.00  
$110.00 No. in Class 67  2 Tr Contrib. .03  1923  Phelan, Richard L. Qoinn, Edward R. Rigney, Capt Robert J.  2S.O0 S.OO 10.00  Laframboise. Paul H. 3(aber, Capt John J. McShane, John A.  4.00 S.OO 10.00  
1915  Casasanta, Joseph J. .. Flannery. Harry W. Anonymous  S  5.00 25.00 25.00  Walsh, Vincent T. Tota l $163.50  10.00 No.Contrih. 11  Rogers, Ralph E.Veeneman, L t William H. Jr.  "  5.00 125.00  
Andrews, M. T. Byrne. Joseph M., Jr. Hudson, Galvjn G. Total  $ 5.00 100.00 25.00 No. Contrib.  ToUl S 55.00 Xo. in Class 182  No. Contrib. 3 t^r Contrib. .016  No. in Class 414  To Contrib. .027  Total $187.00 No. in Class 426  No. Contrib. 10 % Contrib. .023  
$130.00 No. in Class 67  3 •Tr Contrib. .045  (924  1929 Dougherty, Sylvester J.  $ 25.00  1935  
Kreutser. Mark  G.  $ 25.00  Kirchner, MarceHus C. .  S.OO  Duffey. Sg t  Jack N. .  _S  25.00  
1916  Total S 25.00  No. Contrib. 1  Total $ 30.00  No. Coatiib. 2  Total $ 25.00  No. Contrib. 1  
Galvin. Timothy P. . Tomer, William W.  50.00 5.00  No. in Class 208  Tt Contrib. .005  No. in Class 318  %CoBtrib. .006  NcinClaas 452  % Contrib. .002  

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Johannes, John H. 5.00 Finneran, James A.. Jr. -5.0« 
1936 1942 
Kvatsak, Pv t Robert J. 5.00 • .p-00 Goldman. Invin L. ... $ 3.00 O'Langhlin, Sst. Francis J. 5.00 Berko, Lawrence 10.00 Efowe, BuL William J., Jr. : 2S.N Gorman, Thomas F. -3.00 O'Helia, Major Richard J. _ 5.00 Chlebeck, L t Andrew J. • 5.00 Lneiy. Pvt. Ban^ P. _—. too Kolka, Alfred J-3.00 O'Shea, Lt. Patrick Roland . 5.00 Crowley, George C '. 25.00 Hahon, Ens. Gerald R--10.00 Halloy. Eagene F. — 25.00 PlafT, Francis R, 5.00 Kelly, Lt Midiael D. 1B.00 1000 Wall. Hugh E.. Jr. _ 25.00 Reynolds, Joseph M. : 25.00 Kennedy, William E. lOO.OO McAndiews, Ens. John P. . _ . 15.00 
Total No. Contrib. Shannon, Michael F., Jr. 10.00 Kirby, Kenneth W. 20.00 Konaban, £na. Edward F, , _ 10.00 ; 63.00 3 Wachter, L t Ralph F. 2.00 Krajniak, Sg t John C. ~ Veeneman. Jaeqoa IL 125.00 
10.00 Total No. Landers, L t Maurice D. _ 6.0O Witacki. Ens. Robert M. 
Xo. in Class 91 Contrib. Contrib. S.0O S124.50 14 
Minges, William J. 3.00 
.443 .01 Tatal NauCntrib. No. in Class ^ Contrib. 
Holidor, Lt Otto B. 50.00 
)239.00 IS 

Ryan, L t Edward C. B.70 
606 .023 Schroer, Gerhard J. 2.00 Na.iaCIas« %CMI«I». 
1937 

Tafel. Paul J., Jr. 10.00 253 .051 Drende). Dr. Edward P. 1940 Thayer, Edward S. S.OC Flood, Capt. Richard E. 
Wathen, Joseph L. 10.00 Baldinser, Pv t Edward J S 5.00 1945 Anonymous Total NauCMitia. 
Dray, Walter L. 25.00 
Lanzaframe, Sare A. 
$277.70 15 
Condon, David R. . $ 6-00 Waldecfc. Robert L. 
HcManus, Sg t Robert R. 5.00 
Walsb, David A. _ 100.00 Total 
Meeker, Cpl. George R. 5.00 No. in Class <;iC«itiik. 
Shortall, L t John G. 10.00 312 .03 
Tata] N«,CMitrik. 
? 70.00 

Sitko, Steven J. 10.00 
$103.00 2Xo. in Class 

Sfevenson. Cpl. Harrj-, Jr. 5.00 472 
Swanser, Bernard A. 10.00 
1943 

Total No. Contrib. 
1946 

$ 75.00 8 Behr, Pvt. John L. t 3.00 
1938 

No. in Class t;'c Contrib. Butler, Ens. Charles J. 5.00 Corran, Pvt Louis F., Jr. . 25.00 
695 .001 Byrne, Ens. James J. 10.00 Veeneman, Robert L. . 126.00 
Boyle. Dr. Daniel E. $ 3.00 
Conaty, Francis H. 5.00 
Callahan, Oil. Charles M. _ 1.00 
Total M«.Caatrib. Callahan, Major Joseph A. _ 10.00 
Conerty, Ens. Joseph A., Jr. 25.00 
$150.00 2 Carney, Cpl. Richard A. 5.00 1941 Flynn, Pfc. Raymond R. 10.00 Elder, L t Thomas J. 10.00 
Keating, CpL Walter L. 5.09 Broderick. Ens. 
Kelsey, Sgt Donald J. 5.00 Daniel T., Jr. 23.00 
Hughes, Dr. Thomas M. 25.00 
McElroy, Lt James A. . 10.00 Burke, John E. . 25.00 
Kelley, Charles J. 3.00 Subscribcis 
HcKnight Ens. Henry J. 10.00 DeLay, L t Eugene E. 5.00 Notre Dame Chib 
Kirch, Lt. Philip J., Jr. 25.00 
McHanus, Pv t ' DeLay, L t Paul R. 10.00 
Lanrood, Franklin E. 5.00 
 J. 5.00  D.C. . 
Monaoelli, Walter J. 30.00 Raymond (Deceased) of Washington, 1 125-00. 
Henke, L t Lawrence W., Jr. 26.25 
Reale. Robert J. 10.00­
Skoglund, Leonard H., Jr. .. 100.00 Reynolds; Mrs. J. 6.00 
Korth, L t Howard J. 5.00 
Webber, Anthony G. 1.00 Total No. Contrib. Veeneman, William, Sr. 125.00 
Landry, L t John F. 10.00 $241.00 11 
Total Na-Coatrifc. 
Marbach. L t Robert J. 10.00 
Tatal N*.C«atitt, 

Total $104.00 13 No. in Class i^c Contrib. 
Patterson, Lt. John W., Jr. .. 25.00 
$235.00 3 363 .02 
Reith, John R 10.00 No. in Clasa r'o Gmtrib. Thompson, L t 323 George W., Jr. 10.00 
1939 
Welsh, L t James R. 10.00 Re-CapHulation: 10.00 
Bradford. Lt. Raymond ,H. ..S 5.00 Williams, Dr. Raymond M. .. 
1944 Total this period $4,764.45 Total No. 
Cella, Capt John B. 25.00 Contrib. 
No. Contributors —_—_ _ 195 

Dunphy, Pv t John J. 2.50 13 A'Heam, L t Richard H, _ $ 10.00 
$181.25 
Per Cent of Contribotors .024 

Foskett, Capt Donald A. 20.00 Contrib. Byrne, John E. ' 10.00 
No. in Class </c 
Harrington, Joseph H. 3.00 .02 Crowley, Pf c James G. 7.00 Average Contribution $ 24.31 
688 

A. ; Bauer, Robert M., Toledo, H. : Bayley. Hani n ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN* W., Madison, Wis., N. ; Becker. Ralph H.. Didton, Mass., N.; Beckman, Frederick A., Fort Wayne, 
Key to letter with each name; A-ard L., San Francisco, N.; Anderson, Terry R., Ind., M.; Beckman. Frederick S„ S/Sgt, '42. Dcs Moines, M.; Anderson, AValter S., Ebenshors, South Bend. A.; Bedard, Francis L.. Birmingham, 
Army; N—^Navy; M—^Marines; MM-
Pa-, N. ; Anhut, John W., fins,, ex. '44. Detroit. Mid., N.; Beesley. Walter V., '31. Salt I«ke CSty, 
Merchant Marine. 
N.; Ankenhruck. John V., Fort Wayne, Ind.. N,; A.: Behler, Ralph W., Pontiac, Mich.. N.; Bena. 
Arnold, Charles A., Indianapolis, M.-; Athey. Bry­Valentine, Chicago, N . an, Lansing. Mich., N. ; Atkins, John R., Chicago. 
Bender, George A., Sheffield. HI.. N. : Bender. Aarvold, John 0„ Betwyn, III., M.; Allen, Lloyd 
N. ; Aul, Raymond E.. 31uncie, Ind., N . 
William T.. NaperviOe. RL. N.; Bennek. Robert A.. Fainesville. O.. N. ; Ait. Richard E.. Lt. 
A.. Minneapolis, N.; Bennett Edward J.. Hyan-Cmdr., ex. '27, New Washinston, O., N.; Alu. 
nis. Mass.. N. : Benson. Qark H.. Shell Lake. Joseph G.. Sgt., Indianapolis, A.; Amato, Francis 
B 

Bagiackos, Joseph J., ex. '42, Utica, N. Y., A.; Wis.. K ; Benton, Robert W.. Dana. Ind.. N.: 
L. Omaha. M.; Amstutz, Oliver W. Beaverdam. 
Baines. James M., Michigan City, Ind., N.; Baker, Berk. William L.. Chicago. M.; Berry. Lathrop F.. O.; Amundsen. Palmer E., Mesa. Ariz., N.; An­
John F., '37, N. Y. C, A.; Balfc, Robert C, Lt Jackson. Mich.. N.: Bevington, Richard L, Ens., derson, Lee B.. liOs Angeles, N. ; Anderson. Rich­
(ig) '31, Palm Beach. N.; Balton, Francis T., ex. '4S, Nashville. Tenn., N.; BibUas. Gareth L.. Memphis. N. : Bamberger, Robert J.. Latonia, Virginia. Minn., N. ; Black, James W., Akron. O.. Ky.. N.: Bannon. Mark J., South Bend, N.: Bark­O.. M.; Blaekbom. Charles M.. FieknerviDe. HL. -* Increasing names and decreasing available er, Raymond L.. Rockford, HI., N.; Barrett, George N.; Blaekhnrat, John F.. Midland. Mich.. N.: space combined to make necessary a condensation B., 2nd Lt. "43, Louisville, A.; Barrett Joseph Blaes. James F.. Indianapolis. A.; Blood. Charles in this section of the "Alumnus," with the result G., East Liverpool, O., N. ; Barry, Kenneth S., W.. S t l4>uis, N. : Bodnar, George T., Hinsdale, tiut yoB see here in the 853 names listed. It should Providence, R. I., N.: Bartos, Joseph S., Lorain, Bl., N.; Bohrer. Herbert J., MUwaukee. M.: Bol­be recalled that a name is used only once in O.. N. laert William E.. East MoUne. HL. M.: Boswd, "Additional Service Hen,** when the Alumni Office Nelson J.. South Bend. K.: Boyd. William S.. 
Bastian. George L.. 1st Lt , '39, Manchester, fint hears that the man is in service. N.H., A.: Basticn. William A.,' River Forest 111., Spencer. N.; Boyland. Joseph F., Pvt. '31, Grand Rapids. Mich., A. ; Bradford, Raymond H.; UL,
 are V-12 A.; Thomas E., '32, Mishawaka.  ex. '39, Comwall-on-Hndson, N . Y., A. : Biadshaw, ' Bloat of the men listed here former Bath, Ens., ex.
students in the University. Since their status as Ind., N.: Baty, Robert J., S/Sgt, '31, Detroit Fred B. Carmi, Rl.. M.: Bramball, David L.. 
A.: Bauch, Shirley R., Brawley, Calif., N.: Bauer. Watertown, Mass., N.; Bnuidbesn. Raymond J.. 
alamni remains to be defined, a class year for each 
John L., Lt, e.x. '42, Forest Hills. L. L. N. Y., 
of them has beem omitted. 
Lt, 'M, Silver Oty. N. M.: Brehmer. Walter L.. 
Ens.. '44. Sooth Bend. N.; Brennan. Cyril M.. 
Chicago, A. 
Brennan, Donald £., Evansville. Xnd.. N.; Bre­
zenski. William A., ex. *46. l>etroit, A.; Bridge. 
William A.. Midland, Mich.. N. : Broden. Earl. 
Nashville, Tenn., M.; Broten, Alton M., Hudson, 
Wis., N. : Brown, Carl B.. Britton. Mich., N. : 
Brown. George E.. Cincinnati. N.; Brown. James 
D.. Bakersfidd. Calif.. N.; Brown. Robert G.. 
Sioux C3ty, N.; Browning. Cecil W.. Buckner. Tl., 
N. : Brack. WiUiam E.. South Euclid. O., M. Brumby, Paul S.. Lt. (jg). ex. '35, St Louis. 
N.: Brans, Frank J.. Cincinnati. N.; Buber, Luther W., 1st Lt., '41, Berlin. N. H.. A: Buck­ley, John A.. Lt. '34. Oak Park. HI.. A.: Buchrle, John v., Akron. O.. N.: Burd. Marvin L., Grand Rapids, Mich.. N. : Burke. Francis T.. Bronx. N.Y., N.; Burke, J<*n T.. Chicago. N.; Bums. Carl E.. Indianola. Iowa. N. : Butler. Donald T.. Dowagiac. Mich.. N. : Byerlein. John K., Detroit, N. 
Cahill. William J.. Oak Park. 111., N. : Cappidlo. Francis A., Trenton. N. J.. N.: Carduil. Wendell L.. W. Springfield. Mass.. N. : Carlet Frank A.. Middlebury, Conn.. N.: Carney. Richard J.. Lt, ex. '39, Milwaukee. A.; Carpenter. Wilbur R.. Hoberly, Mo.. N.; Carr, John F., Brewster, O., 
N.; Carroll. Patrick J., Lt. '35. Highland Falls. N.Y., N.; Carter, Robert P.. 1st Lt. '35. South Orange. N.J., A.; Carver, Roger R.. Detroit. N.: Casey, Daniel J., Lt (ig) '33, Chicago, N.; Casey, Edward F., Philadelphia, killed, A.; Cash. Charles J.. Sgt. ex. '28, Anamosa, la.. A.: Cattie. Gerard F.. Philadelphia. N.: Cavey. John M.. Pvt. ex. '.33. Milwaukee, A.; diarnley. Nathaniel W., Pa­cific Palisades. Calif.. N.; Chauvin. Robert E., Mechanicville. N.Y.. N. 
Christophel. Ray E., Sharonville, O., N. : Chur­ney, Robert J., Antigo, Wis.. N. : Qark, WUliam D., Ottawa, ffi.. A,; Qeary. Dennis P.. Chicago. 
N.: Cleary, John R.. Detroit A.: Cleary. William F.. Ens., '40, New Rochelle, N.Y.. N : Clessler. Carl W., Winona, Minn., N. : Clifford. Kay H.. Saftord. Ariz,. N.; Climer. David S.. Vpsilanti. Mich.. N.; Cochran. Neal P., Lt. '39. Chicago, A.: Cochran. William M., Lafayette. Ind.. N. : Cole­man. Herbert E.. Chester, W.Va.. N. : Collins. James L., New Brighton. N.Y.. A.; Colopy. Hugh M.. '33, Akron. O., A.; Concannon, Gerald J., Roxbury, Mass.. N. ; Condon, James J., Charles­ton. S.C.. N.; Connor, Nicholas J.. 2nd Lt, ex. '36, Indianapolis, A ; Connors, John R.. '35. Wells­ville, N.Y.. N.; Cook, Alexander J., Brookfield. HI., N.; Cooney, John D., Montdair, N.J., N. 
Cooper, Charles J., Des Moines, Iowa, M.; Coop­er, James, R., Newark, O., M.; Cooper. Jack, Beverly Hills. Calit. N. ; Cordtz. Henry J.. 1st Sgt. ex. '43, South Bend, Ind.. A: Corgan, Paul J.. Lt, '43, Alma, Mich.. A.: Corson. William R., Chicago. M.; Costello, William C Ens.. '43, Glou­cester City, NJ.. N.; Courtney, John W., 1st Lt, '40, Indianapolis, A.: Courtney. Thomas E.. Pvt. e-x. '43. DeKalb. DL, A.: Coy, Charles L, Lt (ig), '37, St Louis, N.: Creed, Leland K., Hillsboi;o. N.Y., N. : Creegan, Paul F., Lowell, Mass., N. ; Cronin, Edward J.. Norristown. Pa.. M.; Cronin. John P., 1st I;t, '42, Rochester, Minn., A.: Cronin. Richard B.. Pvt, ex. '39. Detroit A.; Crosson, Paul L.. M/Sgt. ex. '30. Templeton. Ind.. A.; Curran, Donald L., Indianapolis. A.; Curtin. An-dries A.. Cpl., '34, Farnams, Mass., A.: Czaja. Henry B., Milwaukee. N. 
Dacey, William E., Boston. Mass.. N.; Dackins. Donald N.. Portland. Ore.. M.; Dahms. Joseph G., Philadelphia, M.; Daner, James C, Capt, '40, Los Angeles, A.: Daugherty, William B.. Hunts­ville, Ala., N. ; Davis. Donald F.. Mimcie, Did.. 
N. ; Davis, Everett E., Racine, Wis., N. ; Davis. Harold A., Dubuque, Iowa. M.; DeBoer. James N.. 
Grand Rapids. N. : DeBniler, Robert L., Indian­apolis, N. : Dee, Robert H.. ex. '44. Denver, Colo., A.; Deeb, Richard J., St Petersburg. Fla., A.: Deisler, Edward G., Saginaw, Mich.. M. 
DeLay. Paul E.. Lt (ig), '41. St Paul. N.; Delhey. William F., Ann Arbor, Mich., N.: Ddker, George E., Cpl.. '38, Henderson. Ky.. A.; Dd-linger, Robert O., Fort Wayne, Ind.. N.; DeMarco, Angelo, Cbf. Strkpr., ex. '41, CSiicago. killed. N. ; Demas. George K., Weirton, W.Ta.. N.; Depkm, Joseph J.. Chicago. N.; Dery, Robert J., Faiton, Mich., N.; Diedericfa, Donald J. Madison. Wis., N.; Diekmann, Wendell R.. Waverly. la.. N.; De Filippo, Vincent Jersey City. N. J.. N.; Dillman, Francis A.. Cpl., '33, Grayslake. HI.. A.; Dinnen, James 3L. Fort Wayne. Ind., A.; Dixon. Alva L., Cupertino, Calif., N. : Dohr, Raymond P., L t Ool., '24. Appleton, Wis.. A. 
Donahue. Daniel F., Albany, N.Y.. N.: Donahue, William F.. Lt (ig), '35. Harvey. HI.. N.: Don­alty. Francis W.. Lt (ig), '33. Utica. N.Y., N.; Donath. Ernest Brooklyn. N.Y.. MM.: Donlan, James J.. M/Sgt. ex. '42. River Forest HI., A.; Donohue, Vincent J., Lt (ig), '32, Philaddphia, N.; Doody. Donald J., Chicago, N.; Dooley, Thom­as A.. Gayton. Mo.. N.: Dore. Edward J., Ens., *43. Dearborn, Mich.. N.; Dotterer. James R., Kokomo. Ind., N.: Doyle. John T.. Sgt. ex. '40, Cleveland, O.. A. 
Draper. Thomas J.. Los Angeles, killed, N.; Dratz, Richard A., Ens., '44, Muskegon, Mich.. N. ; . Dreibelbis. Louis J.. South Bend. N.; Drolet Louis P., Niles. Mich., N.; Ducey, Joseph A.. 2nd Lt, ex. '35, Chicago, A.; Duffey, Jack N.. S/Sgt, ex. '35, Boston. A.; Duffy, Maurice J., Ens., '41, Bay­onne. N.J., N.; Dugan. James F., Osceola Mills, Pa., N.; Dunbar. George A., Windsor, Vt, N.; Dunn. James G., Elmharst HI.. N. ; Dunphy, John J.. Pvt, '39, Salem, N.J., A.; Durren. Gene, Dearborn, Mich., N.; Dwyer, (5eorge F., Buechel, Ky., A. 

Eberhardt Walter W., Cincinnati, O.. M.: Egg-beer. William T., Franklin, Pa.. M.: Eggleston,' Donald P.. Connersville. Ind.. A.; Engelbrecht Robert M.. Stover, Mo., IL : Englund, Philip M., Des Moines. Iowa. M.; Erickson. Ralph G., Mar­seilles. HI.. N.; Erlenborn. John N.. Elmhurst, HI., N.: Ernst Albert A.. Chicago, Calif., N. 
Faser, John H.. North Wales. Pa.. M; Faherty, Philip J.. '33. Lambertville. N.J., A.; Fanizzi, Vito J., Astoria. L.I., N.Y., N. : Fanu. Jertone, Chicago, N. : Fanu. Nick, Ambler, Pa.. M.; Fav­ret John A., Cincinnati, O., N,; Feeney, John J., Kingston. Pa.. N.; Fehr, Charies R.. Lt (ig). '35, Spring Valley, HI.. N.: Ferguson. Edward C, Lt, ex. '43, Detroit N.; Ferguson. John E., El Dor­ado, Ark.. M.: Finn. Daniel R.. Lt. '37, N.Y.C., 
N.: Fischer. Jack B., Houston, Texas, N.; Fitz­gerald. Edwin M.. East Orange. N.J., N. 
Fitzgerald. Gerald T., T/4. r33, Muskogee, Okla., A.; Fitzgerald. James. Pvt. '44. Indianapolis, A.; Fitzgerald, James L.. ex. '44, Lancaster. N.Y., N, : Fitzharris, William E., C!pl.. ex. '46. New Rochelle, N.Y.. A.; Fitzpatrick. John F., Akron, O.. A,; Fitzstmmons, Joseph V.. N.Y.C A.: Flanagan. Dan C. Indianapolis. N.; Flanagan. Thomas E., Indianapolis, N.; Fomenko, Leo J.. Lt. '35. South Bend. A.; Forbing, William G.. Fort Wayne, Ind., N.; Forgays. Donald G.. Lowell. Mass., N.; Forgue, George F., Chicago, N.; Formsma. Jay W.. Grand Rapids. Mich.. N. : Forster, Carl F.. 2nd Lt. ex. '44, Milwaukee, A.; Forster, Richard H., Chicago. N. ; Forward. Lyie F.. Rock Island, HI.. N. 
Fox, Roger E.. Mentone. Calif.. N. ; Fredericks, Cari K.. '41. Butte, Mont, A.; Freed, Bernard J., Providence. R.I.. N., Froberger, Charles F., Sl/c , 
•44. West Lynn. Mass., N.; Froehlke. Richard P., 
Pvt, ex. '45. Wauconda, 111.. Hissing. A.: Fuetter, Baser L., S2/c, '44, Somerset Pa., N. 
Gallagher, Donald S.. Rev.. Lt. '24, Blooming­dale, N.Y., N.; Gallagher, Robert J., Ens., '39, Waverly, Iowa, N.; Ganser, Richard A., Lt (ig), *39, Hishawaka. Ind., N. ; Garvin, John J.. De­troit M.; Gass, Gerald F.. Wyandotte, Mich., N. : Gates, Frederick L., Harrisburg, HI., N.; (.entry, Richard W., San Bernardino, CaXit., N. ; Geriach, Donald R., North Ohnstead, O., N.; (>ermond. William C, Petoskey, Mich., N.; Gesler, Robert H., Aurora, HL, N. ; Gessler, Benedict J.. Young­stown. C, N.; Giampaolo. Donald A., Chicago. N.; Gibson. Thomas C, Conshohocken, Pa.. M.; Gild­ner, (Seorge F., Bloomington, HL, N. ; Gillis, Rod­erick J., '37, Camp Hill, Pa.. N.; Gillogly. William C, Omaha, Neb., M.; Gilroy, Thomas M.. ex. '43. Austin, Fa., N.; Giordano, Francis, Pf c ex. '44, Jersey City, N.J.,. Prisoner, A. 
Glass, Robert L.. Alexandria, Ind.. N. ; Glidden, William C Waukesha, Wis., N.'; Goldsmith, How­ard N.. Aurora, HI.. N. : Goodale, Ronald R., Houston, Texas, A.; Goodyear, Frank T., Cold-water. Midi.. N.; Gorbacz, Samud, South Bend, Ind., N.: Gordon, John W.. 2nd Lt, '42, CMumbus, C A.; Gormdey, James F.. Pvt. '44, Jersey City, NJ., A.; Graef, Leslie H.. Rochester. N.Y.. N. Grant Richard, Sgt, ex. '44. Freeport 111., killed, A.: Green. George E., T/Sgt, ex. '39, Pittsburgfa, Pa., A.: Green, Robert S., Baltimore. Md.. N. Green, William D.. Manhattan, Kan., N.; Greene, George W., 1st Lt, '41, Brooklyn, N.Y., A. Grimes, Robert J.. Albany. N.Y., A.; Grossmann, Robert J., Chicago, N.; Gnillaume. John F.. Lt (ig), '42, Wellesley. Mass., N.: Guy. Donald B.. Lt (ig). '43, Newton, Kan.. N. 
H 

Haberer. Charles W., Birmingham. Mich.. N.; Hackner. Robert B.. Pfc., '43, LaCrosse, Wis., A.: Haire, Robert E.. M/Sgt, '30, Fort Dodge, la, A.: Haley. Douglas F., S2/c, '42, Gary, Ind., N.; Hanley, Danid F., Lt (ig), ex. '33. San Fran­cisco, N.; Hanley, James T., 1st Lt, ex. '43, Wil­mette, HI., A.; Hanna, Joseph J., (3iicago, A.: Harris, David W., 2nd Lt, '39, Chicago, A.; Harris, James M., Bdlaire. O., A.: Hartfidd. William T., Huntington Park, C:alif., N. : Hart­man, Rome J.. Cincinnati, N. ; Hauptmann. John T., Harrisburg, HI., N.; Hass. Werner E., Eau Claire, Wis.. M.; Hedges, John M.. Rochester, N.Y., A.; Heideman, (^rge H.. Cpl.. ex. '39, South Bend, A. 
Heinz, James L, Mai., ex. '29, Selma, Ala., A.: Hdman. Fred J., South Bend, N. ; Hehner, John F., Lt (ig), '38, South Bend. N.; Henke, Law­rence W., Lt, '41, Urbana. O., M.: Herbert, Thomas R., Auburn, N.Y., N. : Herbest John J.. Chicago. N.; Herriges. Leonard J., ex. '43, Hub­bard Woods, HI., killed. A.; Herring. Crist P.. Lynchburg, Va,, A.; Higel, Joseph J. Ens., '39, Warren O., N.; Hockwalt Paul H., Lt (ig), '35, Canton, C. N.: Hodges, Gerard R., Lt, '32, South Bend. N. ; Hoellworth, Marian R.. Lodi, Calif., M.; Hoey, Raynham J.. Lt, '43, New Haven, Ckmn., A.; Hoffmann. F. Nordboff. Lt (ig), '33, Pitts­burgh, Pa., N. 
Holton, James B., Lt Cmdr.. '22. Dallas, Tex., N.; Hoth. Frederic D.. Pvt, '43, Leonia, N.J., A.: Hoian, William C <3iicago. A.: Hourigan, Joseph F., South Bend, Ind., N.; House, Wnliam R., Ens., '42. Bay City, Mich., N. : Howrey. Eugene E., Danville, HI., A.; Howser, Ray E., Urbana, HI., N.; Hugger, Jerome H., Lt, '32, Cincinnati, 0.. A.; Hughes, Henry G.. 1st Lt., '41, Columbus, O., M.: Huxford. James D.. Skaneatales, N.Y., M. 
Jaeger, Frank M., Capt, ex. '35, (}olumbus, O., A.; Johantgen, Henry F., Lt (ig), '39, Rochester, N.Y., N.; Johnson. Vernon V.. Alhambra, Calif.. 
CUovo. A.: Xotphy. nud s J„ lat. U , 11. 
N.; Johnston, Eusene R., Kirlcville, Iowa. N.; M Sprinsidd. JbaM.. A.: mapkj. JtkmM^ IK, Jones, Thomas P., C.S.C, Rev., Lt., '31, Notre MacCauIey. Fi-ancis R., Brooklyn, N.Y., N.r ClqneM. MML. K. ; Mmtfkr, Hi— • J,. Pfe. '41. Dame, Ind.. A.; Joyce, John V., 1st I;t, ex. '36, MacKinnon, Harold R., Lewiston, Idaho^ K.; Los Angdes. A.; Itmrtmr- Sajnami H„ Waatt 
PittsburEh, Pa., A. Madden, Edward H.. Gary, Ind., N. ; Ifadden. mat, N.Y„ N.: KsMOk Blwaid A.. H.T.G. A. James K, Short Hills, N.J., N.: Matcuire. James 
Kane, Raymond C, T/4. '34. Duluth, Hinn., A.; Karl, Paul K., Peoria. HI., N. : Keane, John R., Garden City, N. Y., Missine; Keams. Francis B., Pfc, '43, Salt Lake City, Utah. A.: Keegan. Mich­ael J., Lt, '41, Granite Falls. Minn.. A.; Keenan, Robert R., Dover. N.H., N.; Kiefer, Louis F.. Terre Haute, Ind., N.; Keleher, John T., Chicago, N.; Kelleher, John C. Lt. '40. Lorain, O., A.; Kelly, Charles M., '44, Akron, O.. N. : Kelly, Joseph J.. Ens.. '38, Chicatra, N. : Kelly, Thomas W.. Baltimore, N. 
Kelsey. Donald J.. S/Sgt. ex. '43. Scotia. N.Y., A.: Kelsey, Harry F., Ens.. '43, Kenmore, N.Y., N.; Kennedy, Roscoe, J., Cmdr.. ex. '26, New Hampton, la., N.: Kenney. John F.. Lt. (jg), '33, Philadelphia, N. ; Kennington. Edward R., Indian­apolis, A.; Kessing, Albert H., '40, Charleston, W.Va.. N.; Kilbride. John L., Stratford. Cbnn.. 
N.: Kirby, Robert E., Lt, ex. '29. Indianapolis, 
N.; Kirch. Phillip J.. 1st Lt, '38, DesMoines, la., M.: Kortan, William A., Cleveland. O.. N.; Ko­vach. Joseph E., Lt (je), '37, ITniontown, Pa., N.; Krajniak. John C, T/Sgt, '42. Detroit A.; Kvatsak, Robert J., Pvt, '39, Pittsburgh. Pa., A. 
LaBaueh. William C, Bloomfield. N.J.. N.: Lafata. Peter A., Reading, Pa.. N.; Lafferty. Jo­seph A., ex. '44. McKees Rocks, Pa., N. : LaFort­une, Joseph A., Tulsa, Okla., N. : Lagrou, John, Lt, e.x. '45. Killed. A.: Laird. John A., Col.. "10, San Antonio, Tex., A.; Lajoie. Louis J., Pfc. '43. Detroit A.: laJone. Joseph F., Chicago, M.; Lamb, William J., Port Byron, 111., M.; lampert. Nelson N.. Lt, '37, Chicago. A.; Lang, LeRoy F., Chicago, N.; Lange. Ronald H., St Joseph. Mich., 
N.; LaRocque. Leon F., West Branch, Mich., N. 
lAuderdale, James M... Pasadena. Calif.. A.; lAughlin. John F., South Bend. N.; Lautar. John P., Lt (jg), '37, Moundsville, W.Va., N.: Lavery, Elwood J.. '40, Bridgeport Conn.: Lawrence, Mills E.. Santa Monica. Calif., N. ; Lawson, Ger­ald J.. Ticonderoga. N.Y., A.; Leahy, John E.. Chicago. M.; Lechner, Theodore J., Louisville, N.; Leahy, Thomas M., Chicago, N. ; Leake. Albert C Cincinnati, N.; LeBeau. Arthur P., Chicago, N.; Ledwith. James M.. Queens Village. N.Y.. N.; Lee, Robert E.. Cicero, III.. N.; Lee. Walter A.. 1st Lt, ex. '38, New Haven, Conn., A.; Leifheit Dale A., DeKalb, HI., M.; Leighton. Edward H., Brooklyn. N.Y., N. ; Lennon, John J.. Chicago, N.; Leonard, Lawrence P., '42. Toronto, Canada, Killed, A.; Letscher. Robert J., Lt, e-x. '41, Port Arthur, Tex., Killed, A. 
Lewis, Joseph B.. '39. Clarksville. Tenn., A.; Ley, Jack P., ex. '37, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Li­mont Joseph P.. ex. '44. Fittsfield, Mass.. N. : Lindsay, John H.. Terre Haute. Ind., N.; Litcher, John C, Lt., ex. '32, Winnipeg, Canada, N.; Little, Elden L., Quincy, III.. M.; Lofgren. Jack D., Rock Island, BL, N.; Loftus, John R.. Dixon, ni.: Logan, Wilbert H., Bellville, Tex., N.: Lon­ergan, Mark A.. S2/c, '37, Bronx, N.Y., N. : Lou^in. Lawrence L., North Easton, Mass., N.; Lougfarey, Charles M., Lt (ig), '33, Brooklyn, N.Y., N. 
Lovett James F., Lt, ex. '42. Nova Scotia. Canada. Canadian Army; Lower. John D., South Bend, A.: Lucid, Morgan L., Batavia. N.Y., N.; Lodwig, Max E., New Castle, Pa.. N.; Lutz, Eugene F., Brooklyn, N.Y.. N. ; Lyman. Wilkes S., A/S, '44, Mt Vernon, S.D.. N.; Lynch, Law­rence J., Kansas City, Mo., M.: Lyons, Philip E., Clevis, NJtf., A. 
J., Coming, N.Y., N.; Mahoney, ESwaid J., 
Springfield, Bl.. N.; Malloy, James M., Ens., '44. 
Bronx, N.Y., N.; Maloney, James B.. Lanrd. 
Neb., N. : Manly, William D., McConnehville. O., 
M.: Marbach, Robert J., Lt (ig), '41, White 
Plains, N.Y., N. 
Markewicz, Richard S., South Bend, N. ; Mark-
land, Robert v., Pfc. '32, BethPage, L.I.. N.Y.. 
A.; Marley, Theodore R., Bozeman, Mont, N.; 
Marqueling, Henry E.. Salina, Kans., A.; Xar­
sbaU, Kari A., La Mesa, Calif., N.; Marske. 
Robert L., Michigan City, Ind., N. ; Martin, Jo­
seph W., Rochester, N.Y., N. : Martin. Wayne W., 
Kansas City, Kans., M.; Masterson, James E., 
Phillipsburg, N.J., N.; Masterson. James F., Phil­
adelphia, A.; Matevich, Louis S., DeKalb, HL, N . ; 
Maxwell, Joseph P., Cpl., '31, Gallitzin, Pa., A.: 
Mayer. Charles W.. Forest Park, HI., M.: Mayo, 
Robert T., Van, Tex., N. 
McAndrew, William P., Edgewater, Wis., H.; McAnulty, Robert U.. S t Louis, N. ; McBride, Robert J..« Lt. ex. '44, Lancaster, O., Missing, A.; McBroom. William M., Watseka, Bl., N.; McCabe, Edward S., Capt, '38, Lock Haven, Fa., A.: McCabe. M. Joseph, Lt, '30, Dearborn, Mich., N.: McCall, Roy J., Wibnette, HI., N.; McCann. Justin C. '37, N.Y.C.. N. : McCarter, Theodore D.. Hutchinson, Kan.. N.; McCarthy, James T., Lin­coln, III.. N.; McCarthy, John E., Ens., ex. '46, N.Y.C.. N.; McCarthy, Robert G., Denver, Colo., N.; McCarty, Charles R., Kaukauna, Wis., A.; McCarty, Timm R., Kaukauna, Wis., A. 
McCIoskey, Richard C, ex. '36, Beaver, Pa.; McColIey. Dale E., South Bend, N.: McCormiek, Warren S.. Kokomo. Ind., N.; McCutcheon, James E.. Peru. Ind.. N.; McDonald, Donald C. Lt, '39, Waukeeari. Hi., Killed. A.; McDonnell, Eneas F.. Wilmette. HI.. N.; McErlane, Albert D.. Cincin­nati, N.; McGee. Arthur J., Lt (jg), '31, Glen Falls. N. Y.. N.; McGoldrick, James C. S/Sgt, ex. '43. Johnstown, Pa., Missing, A.; McGraw, James B., Chicago, A.; McGuire, Francis E., Pvt, '35, East St Louis, III.. A.; McGuire, John A., Ens., '39. Chicago. N ; McHugh, Hugh F., N.Y.C., Killed, A.; Mcintosh, Donald K., Lt, '34, Chicago; Mclntyre, Ronald J.. Chicago, N.; McKelvey, Charles S., Atchinson, Kans,, Prisoner, A. 
McKendry, Robert E., Chicago, N.; McKinney, Daryl L., Austin, Minn., A.; McLaughlin, Gerald J., St Paul, M.; McNamara. Leo C. Noblesville, Ind., N.: McShane, Benedict L., Sgt, '31, Chicago, A.; McShane. Joseph. Capt, ex. '32, Chicago, A.; Meadows. James N., Summit. HI., N.; Meeker, George R., Cpl., '40, Covina. Calif., A., Meenan, Robert H., Casper. Wyo., N.; Melek, Joseph F., Chicago, M.; Merollini, Aldo A., Feekville, Pa., N. 
Meservey. Jerome L., '33, Cliicago, N. : Heyeis, John G., Belvidere, HI., M.; Milam, John S., Nashville, Tenn., N.; Miler, Philip J., Kewanee, HI., N.: Millard, Alfred F., Milwaukee, N.; Miller, Lowell E., Effingham, HI., N.: Hiltner, Francis H., '40, Cadillac, Mich., A.; Milton George E.. Ens.. '36. Manhasset L.L, N.Y.. N.: Mitzel, Rob­ert E.. Baltimore. Md.. N.; Molidor, Otto B., Lt. (ig). "42, Libertyville, HI., N.: Molter, Eugene L., Goodland. Ind., N.; Monaghan. John J., '41, Penn Yan, N.Y.. M.; Moran. John H., Oak Park, IIL, N.; Morash, Stanley A.. Marblehead, Mass., N.; Morris, Stanley, Racine. Wis., N.; Morrison, Rob­ert W.. Murtaush, Idaho, M.: Mortimer, John S., '39, Chicago: Huellman, Robert G., CpL. '43, Oil­cago. A.; Muetterties, John H., Elgin, III., N. 
Mulhall, William J.. Pfc, '38, New Hartford, N.Y., M.; Mulligan. James F., Lt,' '37, Greenville. Ky., N.: Mulligan. John, Greenville, Ky., N.; Httl­lin, Frank J.. Sioux City, la., N.; Murphy, Danid J., Lt, '38. Los Angeles, N.; Murphy, Danielll., 1st Lt, "39, Marion. O., A.: Murphy, Donald A.. 
N 

Naesde, Jolm J. BraoUja. N.: Nagy. ViMcat G„ Skmz City. liL. IL; Naidi. RuKia I^ lAac­mintr, WA, N.: Nnazre; r. Jama. TiU ex. "St; Kooioe. Midi., A.: Ncalb Edmud J.. U . (jc), '40, Portland, Ore.. N.; Nidwidufc. Sajaoad A. West Tie*. Fa.. X.: Meff. Tkcoas J.. PIUIM. O . 
N.: NdaoB. Bdth W.. Ooda. VA, IC, 
Ndaon. Staaler K. New Wiadnnv HL. M. : New-bold. -mSBam M.. ex. 'S t lodiuiapoBi. N. : Niak> olaoB, WiDiuB S.. U. fjs). '4S. SooUi Bend. N.: NieoO. Nonnaa F„ San rimaOaeo. N. ; Nieokoa. jclax A^ '43. bhpeniar. Web.: Niepkao*. Owltk A.. St. Joaei*. HidL. A.; NOka. Hetlnt G, Xai. '42. Targo. NJK. N. : Nolaa. TliaBiaa B . U . (Jk). ex. '38. FidnesviOe. 0„ N.: Noa Hdnid J.. IDI­wankee, N.'; NanBan. Georse H.. S/Sct, oc '4X. OiieacDb A.: Noanpiist. Edward C GaMburr. H. . 
N.; Novalc Leonard J.. Warsaw. lad.. N. 
Obremsld. Stanley A.. Braddod^ Fa,. M.; O'Brien, Janei V.. Chieacn N.: CBrita. Joaiak J.. Baffdo. N.Y. N.; O'Conndl. Qnentia J„CBL. '42. A.; O'Conaor, Lawrence F.. Woodharca, N.T.^ 
N.:
 O'Cbanor. Patridc'J.. Fknt Worth. Toe. N.: O'Connor, Kichaid D.. San Diecov Cali£. N. : Odie. Harold £.. Litdfldd. HL. N.; OTIiwaJi. James V.. BOUnss. Moat. N. : ODonoitae. Tlnai^ as S.. lake Forot. HL. N.: O'Baia. Joaepk M:^ Middletawn. Fa.. N.: O'Baia. Miited Oi.. KOK ominee, Mich. M.: Oleak. Edward A , U . (jc). '33. South Bend. N. : Olaoa. George C Fhoedz. Arix.. N.; Olvany. Geoin L.. Forot KHS, IiX. N.Y.. N. 

O-Keara. Thomas F.. Lt. 'S3. West Bod. Wk, 

N.:
 O'Nal. Paid F.. '33. Bodidle.Il].: VStm. Thomas F., 9 '30. Albany. N.T„ KOIedi A.-; O'Reilly. Soger P.. Sgt.. ex '45. Wooddde; U , N.Y.. Missing. A.: Ortale. Bobeit M,. It . Kiaataa. N.Y.. N.: O'Shan^nessy. Jamea D,. Bdhnod, ID.. N.: O-SoDinn. Thonas F.. Ida. Wis,. N.: Ott, James J.. Mihraakee. Wis.. N. ; Otto^ Wnilam" C, Ens., '32. Darby. Pa„ N. 


Page; Oayton. M.. Minneapolis. Minn.. M.: Pa-lank, Edward A.. Lt . '39. Hempstead. N.T;. A^; Palermili. Frank M.. Aahnm. N.T.. N. : PktaMr. Erran J.. '42. Phoenix. Arix,. N.: Panddfo. An­thony. N.Y.C. A.; Parent Geoise O.. Out, Mich.. M.: Parker. Oaade E.. Orwdl. O.. N. : Parlette. George N., Dayton. O.. A.: Pataae^ Jala T., Qenside. Pa.. N.: Pattenon. Junta P„ Plria' tine. HL, A.: Pattenoa. John D.. SamA Bead. A.: Patton. N<»nian.E.. Flora. IL. A.: PardlA John. Carson Lake. Minn.. N.: Fawhidv. Frank. X... Westiand. Pa.. N. 
Payne. Edward 0 „ TndJanapolii. N. ; Fedc. Donald W.. Attica. Ind.. N.; Peekham. Bnl K. Fort Wayne. Ind.. N. ; Pedersoa. Vcmoa I>. Monterideo. Minn.. JLt'renr. Loida K . DiUll, Minn.. M.: Perry. Martin N„ Wickila. Kan.. IL: Perry. Bobert G.. HarrisbariA. HL. DM, N.: Petersen. Oiailea J.. Ames, la , N. ; Fetsiaca.. lAwrenee U . Minneapolis. M.: Pfanlmcfc. VOBaBi S.. AppletoB. Wis.. N. 
Phalen. Martia C Makaw^ Wis, N.: PindB. Boy W„ Lt (jg). '40, San Fraadaeow N.: Pinkky. 
J. CarraD. 2nd Lt. '28. TotUtmewme, Uci, A^: Pisarsld. Stanley C Chicago^ N.: Pliwdria, ' HanM M.. CUcagn N.: POdrad. Lo ^ I^ Lt. ex '42. Waman. Wis,. A.: Polk, Unmi ; Sia^ Bead. A.: POra. Stanidaw. Loaadak^ KX.:M.:: Porlh. Weddl-A.. Ikweapoit la.; Hiilaiaik, Joaeph T.. Lt (jg). '42. McAdoo. Fa.. N.: PMter. Donald A.. Eas.. '43. Washiagtaa. D.CU N.:; 
Power, James W., Lt (is), '33. Beloit. Wis.. N.; Prekowitz, William A.. Lt.. '39. South Bend. A.: Prescott. Charles B., Randolph Center. Vt. N.: Probst. Vincent G.. Ens.. "37. East St. Louis. 111.. N.; Prola, Paul S., Ely. Minn.. M.: Purcell. James F.. Lt. (ie). '42. Jordan. Mont.. N.: Putnam. Gerald F.. '44. Fort Wayne. Ind.; Puttmann. Wayne C, Kingslcy, la.. M. 
Quillen. Claude J., Bedford. Ind.. N.: Quinlan. Richard T., Cincinnati. O.. N. : Quinn. Gerard J., Merrick. N.Y., N-: Quinn. James T.. Burlington, la., N. ; Quinn. Thomas P.. Lt. Cmdr.. e.^ "31. Honolulu, T.H., N. 
Raddiffe, Richard J.. Cleveland. X.; Ralston. 
William D., Oak Park. 111.. N.; Ramback. Clifford 
P., Monmouth, III.. N. : Raney. Robert F.. Dayton. 
O.. N. : Raney. William O.. Indianapolis, N. : 
Rathbun. Edwin R., Kansas Citj-. Mo.. JL: Rauch. 
Basil. Lt, '29. Annapolis. Md.. N.: Ray. John W.. 
South Bend, A. 
Reale, Robert J.. '43, Brooklj-n. N.Y.. N. : Re­
berdy. George K., '43. Detroit: Reece. Kent A., 
Toledo, N.; Rega. Patrick J.. Mt Pleasant. Pa,. 
N.; Regan. Leonard D.. PvL. '33. Great Falls. 
Mont. A.; Reid. David D.. Tonawanda. N.Y.. N.: 
Reid. Robert P., Barker, N.Y.. N.: Reiss. Ray­
mond H., N.Y.C., N. : Reither, Philip H.. S t 
Louis. M. 
Reynolds. Joseph M., ex '39. Atlantic City, N.J.. 
A.: Reynolds, Richard K, S/Sgt. ex. '44. Sauger­
ties. N.Y., A.: Rich. Oarence G., Lake Charles, 
La.. N.; Rice, Richard G., East Oeveland, O.. N.; 
Ricke. William H.. ex. '39. South Bend. MM; 
Riebe. Charles D., Kempton. HI., N. : Riforgiato, 
Steve J.. Chicago. N. 
Riley, Russell A., '28. Newark. NJ.. A.: Riley, Walter J.. Rochester. N.Y., N.: Robb, Richard T.. Minneapolis. M.; Robinson, Verjic A.. Boone. la., M.: Roch. Marcel J.. West Warwick. R.L. N. : Roche, Stewart J.. T/Sgt. '39, Madison, Wis.. A.; Roderick. Eugene R.. Canton. O., N.; Rodin. Evald. M.. Pvt, '44, Burlington. la.. M.; Roemer. William F.. South Bend. Ind.. MM.; Rogers, Florian E.. Belchertown. Mass.. N.; Rohrs. Lloyd C, San Francisco. N.; Rohyans. Kenneth A.. Lt. '42, Pittsburgh, A.: Rolwing, Francis D., '26, Shreveport La.. N. 
Romano. Michael J.. Oak Park. HI.. N. : Romeo. Francis R.. War. W.Va.. A.; Romere. Shelby A.. 1st Lt, '36. Sour Lake. Te-t.. A.; Rooney. John C.. Warwick. R.I., N.': Roque. Warren P.. Cranston, R.L, N.: Rogues, Nelson L., Paulina, La.. N.; Rosselit Walter P.. ex '30. Delphos, 0., N.: Rous­seai), Jacques E.. Grossc Pointe Park. Mich.. N.; Rowan. Edward A., F/0, ex. '45, St Louis. Killed. A.: Rowan, George C Ens.. '29. Pittston, Pa.. N. 
Rowland. James D.. Bayport Minn., M.; Russ, Charics F., Oeveland, A.; Russell, Robert E., South Bend, N. ; Ryan. Francis L.. Bayiield, Wis., N.: Ryan, John J., Capt. '2G. Chicago. A.: Ryan. Michael F., Haverstraw. N.Y.. N.; Ryan. Thomas G., Hibbinp. Minn., M.: Ryder. John L.. 1st Lt, ex '45. Hudson Falls, N.Y.. Killed, A.; Ryen. Roy O., Nedrow. N.Y., N. 
Sackinger, James R., Bolivar, N.Y.. N. : Sauer. James R.. Oak Park. 111.. N.: Schafer. Robert L.. Albany, N.Y.. N.; Scheider. David J.. Batavia. N.Y.. N.; Scheuch, Joseph W.. Ens.. '44. Ingle­wood, Calif., N.; Schiavoni, William, Providence, 
R.L. N.; Schilling. Joseph V., Lt (jg). '37. East Orange, N.J.. N. : Schirack. Francis J.. Canton. O., N.; Schmelz, Edward A.. Georgetown. Ind, N.; Schmidt Burton J.. Chicago, N.; Schneider. Jerome W., Jasper, Ind.. N. 
Sdonuner. Qetus N., Capt. ex. '42. S t Paul, Minn., A,; Scfaoo, Robert E.. Louisville, Ky.. A.; Sdiroeder, Frank A.. Chicago, N.; Seidel, Richard S.. S t Paul, N. : Secher, Sven A., Everett. Mass.. 
N. : Sdtzer. Arthur. N.Y.C.. N. : Senyczko. John 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
R, Haratramck. Mich.. N.: Shadley. Frederick C, 
Meadville, Pa.. N.; Shaffer, Walter W.. Ringoes. 
N.J., N. ; Shafransky. John P., Capt ex '41, 
Lemont HI., A.; Shander. Allen G.. Chicago 
Heights. 111., N.: Shannon. Harold C. Brookville. 
Pa.. A.; Sharpe. Joseph H.. Oak Park, III., N. 
Shaul. Robert. Terre Haute. Ind.. M.: Shea, 
Gerald M., '43, Chicopee, Mass., A.: Shea. Patrick 
T., Chicopee. Mass.. N. : Shea. Philip D.. Man­
hasset. N.Y.. N.; Shea, Robert J., Sgt. '38, Chi­
cago, A.; Shea. William J., Lt. ex '43. Evanston. 
111.. A.; Sheeran, Bernard F., Staten Island, N.Y.. 
N.: Sheets. James E.. Ashland. O.. Killed, A.: 
Shockey, Daniel N.. Wabash, Ind.. N. : Shortsleeve, 
Francis J.. '43. Elmira, N.Y., A.; Siedschlaw, 
Ame. O., Alpena. S.D., M.; Siefken, Robert R., 
Effingham. 111., N.; Singer, Louis L., Canton, O.. 
N.; Sitt. Harold A., Cpl.. '41, Chicago, A.; 
Skeates, William B., Chicago, N.; Skelly, Frank 
A.. Chicago, N. : Skory, David, Fort Waj-ne. Ind., 
N.: Skovgaard, Russell U, Omaha. Neb., M. 
Slatt Vincent P.. Lt (jg), '43. Butte, Mont, 
N. : Smith. Clardon C, Kendallville. Ind.. N. : Smith. James F.. Chicago. N.; Smith, John V., Sgt. '29, A.: Smith. Maurice F.. Capt. '21. Villa-nova. Pa.. A.; Smith. Quentin C. Milford. Mass., N.; Soden. Leonard W., Pomona. Calif.. N.; Solo­mon. Grover C. North Vandergrift, Pa.. A.: Solon. Edwin M., Chicago, N.; Spahn. Gerard J., Oak Park, HI., A. 
Spangler, William S., Pfc, '43, Britt la.. A.: 
Spencer, James M., Racine, Wis., N.; Stapleton. . 
William W.. Brooklyn, N.Y.. N. ; Stefanik, Ervin 
A.. Ist Lt, '41. Chicago, A.; Stevens, Gordon J.. 
Grand Rapids. Mich., N.; Stevenson, James M., 
Reading. Pa.. N.; Stewart, Beverly G., Baketsfield. 
Calif.. N.: Stewart Richard E., Chicago, N.; 
Stocking. Donley J., Arlington, Va., N. 
Stolze. William E.. Edwardsville. Bl.. N.; Stone, 
Louis O.. Wausau. Wis.. N.; Stout Gerald L.. 
Paolo, Ind., N.; Strubbe. John L.. Cincinnati. 
M.: Strunk. William P.. Cincinnati. A.; Stuhr, 
Robert F., Modesto, Calif., A.; Sullivan. Arthur 
F.. Melvindale. Mich.. N. 
Sullivan. Francis T., Belle Harbor, L.I.. N.Y., 
N.: Sullivan. James N., S/Sgt. '37. Hartford. 
Mich.. A.; Sullivan, John H., '34. Rocky HHI. 
Conn.. A.: Sullivan. John H.. CpU. *34. Cnunb 
Mills. Me.. A.; Sullivan, John J., Effingham. EI., 
A.: Sullivan, William D., '40. Jersey City. N.J., 
A.; Sumner. Bruce W., Minneapolis. Minn., M.; 
Sumner, Kenneth L.. Chicago, N. 
Swanser, Bernard A., Ens.. '40. Portland. Ore.. 
N.: Swamer. Jerrold O.. San Jose, Calif., N.; Sweeney, Kenny C, Indianapolis, N.: Swint John' P.. Charleston, W. Va.. A.: Syring. William J., '41. Toledo, O.. A. 
Tait Robert P., South Haven. Mich.. Killed. A.: Tanner, Hugh B., Lebanon. Ind.. N.; Tappe, John N.. Long Beach, Calif., A,; Taylor, Joseph W.. East Chicago. N.; Taylor, Thomas C, Lan­caster, O., N.; Taylor. William A., Crawfordsville. Ind.. N.; Tenczar, Theodore E.. Chicago, N.: Teske. John A., Merrill, Wis.. N. ; Tews. Norman W., Spokane, Wash.. N. ; Thibodeau.- Robert L., Grosse Pointe. Mich., N.; Thompson. George W., Lt. '41. Parkersburg, W.Va.. A.; Thompson. Robert B.. Cpl., '41. Royal Oak, Mich.. A.: Thore­son. Grant B.. Mohall, N.D.. N. 
Thurmond. Bruce, Webster Grove, Mo.. N.; Tobin. Joseph E., Kansas City, Kan., A.; Tobin, Richard J„ Chicago, M.; Tobler. Harold J.. Pern. 111., A.; Todd. Miles J.. Cincinnati. O., N.; Tomp­kins. William A.. Houston. Tex., N.; Toole. John L.. Garden City, L.I.. N.Y.. N.; Tormey. James J.. T/5. '39, Scarsdale, N.Y.. A. • ^ 

Tracy. Robert F., Jerseyville, HI., M.; Triebd. Manfred. Oifton, N.J., A.: Trixler, Patrick D., Huntington, Ind.. A.; Trooien. Oscar C, St Paul, Minn., M.: Try, Andrew C. Pvt, '38. Chi­cago; Tucker, Marion K.. Troy. N.Y.. N.; Tulley, Charles A.. Chattaroy. W.Va.. N.; Tulley. David E.. Chattaroy, W.Va.. N. 
u

Uhl. George A., Ens., '42, New Washington, O.. N.; Ungashick, William F.. Lt (ig). '43, Canton. O., N.; Unschuld, Samuel D.. Minneapolis, M.; Uphoff. Richard J., Madison. Neb.. M. 
Vail, Thomas A., S. Amboy. N.J.. N. : Vairo. Dominic M.. Ens., '35, Houghton. Mich.. Vanden Bossche. Paul J., South Bend, N. : Van Der Hagen. Eugene E., South Bend, N.; VanderVoort. Camiel R., Hancock, N.Y.. N.; Vandewalle. Julian L., South Bend. A.; Vatter. Joseph R.. Auburn. N.Y.. N. : Vecneman. Jacques M.. Louisville. Ky.. A.; Veeneman, Robert L., Louisville. Ky.. N-; Veeneman. William H., Lt, '34, l4>uisville. N.; Veit William H.. Visalia, Calif., N.; Venker. Edward W., S t Louis, M.; Vergara. George A., Lt, '25, N.Y.C., N.; Vetter. Leo J., New Ulm. Minn.. N.; Viehmann, Frank J.. Indianapolis. N.; Viviano, Salvatfn-e J.. Detroit Mich.. M.; Vodicka. Albert L.. Glen Ellyn. HI.. M.. Vocllinger. James R., O'Fallon. HI., N.; Voet Eugene P.. Berwyn. HI., Missing, A.: Voitik. Walter J.. Joliet Hi.. M.: Voltmers. Bertram W., Chicago, N. ; Voss. Donaldl G.. Lt (jg). '30. East Troy. Wis.. N. 
w

Waddick. Robert J.. Melrose. Mass.. N. ; Wag­ner, Maurice A.. Osgood. Ind.. N.; Waller. John T.. Capt, ex. '42. Aberdeen. S.D.. A.: Wallace. Louis E.. S t Louis. Mo.. M.; Walsh. John T.. Highland Park. HI.. A.; Walsh, Williaam F.. Lt. (jg), '43, Mineola. N.Y., N.; Ward. William A.. Gary. Ind.. A.; Ward. William O.. Wilmington. Calif.. N.; Wareham. John R., Minneapolis. N.: Warner, Joseph S.. Osceola, Ind., N. ; Warren. James G., Louisville, A. 
Watson, Robert Hinsdale, HI., M.: Watson. Robert J.. River Rouge, Mich., N.: Watt. Glen L.. Centerville. Ind., N. ; Weber, Gerard W.. Chicago. N.; Weil, F. Granger, '33, Port Huron, Mich.; Weissert, Norman L., Mt Morris, Mich., N.; Weitz. Robert E.. Fort Wayne. Ind., N. 
Welsh. John P. Davenport la., N. ; Werle. Joseph P.. S t Louis. N. ; Werner, Eugene F.. Kenosha. Wis.. N.; Wheeler. Donald E., Cheyenne. Wyo., M.: Whitecotton. Robert G.. New Ross. Ind.. N.; Whitdy. William L., White Plains, N.Y.. N.; Wildhagen. 3Iarion W.. Pearl, III., I.; Wilhelm. Lloyd C, Sullivan, HI.. N. 
Wilke. John M., Detroit N.; Wille. Robert L.. Ens.. '40. Cincinnati. N.; Willenbrink. Joseph L.. Louisville. A.; Williams, Albert F.. Carmi. HI.. M.: Williams. Charles. Davenport la,, N. ; Willis, Joseph F., Lt (jg), '32, Monticdlo, N.Y., N.; Wilson. Harold J.. Lt. '37. Minong, Wis.. N. 
Wilson. Perry M.. Wausau. Wis.. N.; Wise. Robert C. Williamsport Pa.. N. ; Witte. Robert S., Ens.. '44. CHiicago. N.; Witzman, Jerome T., St Bernard, Ohio, Killed. A.; Wondka, Robert P.. Neshanic, N.J.. N. : Wood. David O.. North Franklin. Conn.. N.; Wood. Richard E., Bingham­ton. N.Y., N. : Wuertz. John M., Ens.. '43. Chi­caso, N. : Wurzler, Joseph P.. New Rochelle. N.Y'.. M.: Wuttke. Paul E.. Fort Wayne. Ind.. M.: Wyrens. Francis P., Hebron. N.D.. N. 
Yaggy. Paul F., Dover, N.J.. N.; Yakey. Wal­lace E.. Indianapolis, M.: Yockey. James E.. Al­pena. Mich., A.: Young. Danid F.. Reading, Pa.. N.; Young. Thomas J.. Oak Park, HI.. N.; Young. Thomas U. Watertown. S.D.. M. 
Zaboudd. Joseph J.. (Chicago, N.; Zehnder. Don­ald J.. Naugatuck, Conn., N.; Ziebarth. Charies 
U. Pvt. '41. Idaho Falls. Idaho. A.; Ziebarth. John L., Idaho Falls. Idaho. A.; Ziegler, Gran­viUe P., 2nd Lt. '34. South Bend. Ind.. A.; Zieg­ler, Joseph R.. Kansas City. Mo.. N. : Zinn. Ar­thur. San IMego, Calif.. N.; Zoilo. Aurelio M.. Pfc, "44, Brooklyn. N.Y.. A. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Boston 
Six hundred members and guests of the Ad­vertising Club of Boston, including: many alum­ni of Notre Dame, gathered in January to hear an address by Dean J. E- McCarthy of Notre Dame's College of Commerce- Governor Maurice 
J. Tobin of Massachusetts presented Dean Mc­Carthy. Art McHanmon sent an announcement of the gathering to all listed Notre Dame alumni in the Boson area. 
Central Ohio 
Lonis C. Murphy^ '33^ 2357 Livingston Are., Colambns, Pres.; Daniel F. Cannon, *30, 8 Eu t Broad St . Colnmbos, Sec. 

Dan Cannon, secretary of the club, reports that at a recent club luncheon (they're held every Mon­day in the University Club. Columbus) the fol­lowing were present: 
Ray Eidienlanb. John Mnrphy, Hariy Nester. Dr. Flannivan. Don Hamilton, John Fontana. Dr. 
J. M, Dnnn, John Jaeser, Lt. Jim Brady* asso­ciated with Selecti^'e Service in Columbus, ht. Col.' Boh Riordan, Lt. Angnst Petrillo, both of the local F t Hayes. Dr. Joe Hngfaes. also of the Army, Tom Shechan. Frank Kersjes, from Kala­mazoo. Mich.; Bad Mnrphy, president of the club, and Dan Cannon* 
Local service notes: Sgt. Jack Cannon is at Drew Air Field in Florida, and he and his wife are residing at 435 Oak Ave-. Clearwater, Fla. Judge Bl^ride got home from Africa on leave in February, and is now stationed somewhere in Florida, Lt. (jr> Bill Bresnahan is at sea, in the Pacific at the latest report. 
Chicago 
John W. Dorsan, '29, 1488 Scott Ave., Win­netka. Pns. ; Thomas S. McCabe. *22. 1488 Rasdier Avenue, Sec. 

-Jan. 30 marked the club*s annual dinner and election to office for the ensuing year of Daniel 
E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, honorary president; John 
W. Dorgan, '29. president; Joseph D. Shelly, '25. first vice-president; Bruce J. Holmberg, '23, sec­ond vice-president; Charles C. Collins, '25. treas­urer; Thomas S. McCabe, *22. secretary. 
New governors are. William R. Maker, *24. Arthur C. Weinrlch, '19, William J. Drennan. '23. and Edward F. O'Toole, '25. 
Toastmaster Ed Gould introduced Herb Jones. Jim Armstronc, Father John Lynch, C.S.C., and the principal speaker. Father Frank. Goodall, 
C.S.C: Both Alumni Secretary Armstrong and Father Goodall gave interesting talks. The latter, recently named as director of vocational guid­ance, outlined the University's plans in that di­rection. The success of the meeting was due chiefly to Joe Henncberiy, the chairman. 
The club extends sympathies to the mother of Lt. Arnold McGrath. '22. in the loss of her son. Arnold, & "lifer" at the University, having at­tended minim, prep and college throu^ 3. period of 10 years, was recently killed in action while on duty as a supply officer with the Army in the South Pacific area. He had volunteered shortly after Pearl Harbor and had been overseas the past year. 
The club also expresses its sympathy to the parents of Lt. Edward K. Delana,. Jr., *45. A Notre Dame son of a Notre Dame father. Edward left the University before graduation to become a pilot, as Edward K. Delana, '11, had been in World War I. Lt. Delana was killed in action Jan. 31. 1945. in the Adriatic area. A memorial Mass was said March 10 at St. Ita's. 
Well-earned recognition was accorded two Notre Dame men recently at the Chicago Title & Trust Company when Joe Shellr* '25, became assistant vice-president, and Frank Hu^ws, '22. the chief of the title clearance department. 
Benjamin Bachrach, '92, after a long and bril­liant career in public and private practice,, re­signed March 1 as public defender of Cook County. The judges committee promptly replaced him with another N.D. alumnus, Frank T. Me-Currie '27. Frank, one of the trial aces on the State's Attorney's staff the past 12 years, as well as one of our very best past presidents of the club, will be a worthy successor to the distin­guished alumnus he follows. His appointment met with favorable comment from the press, the bar and Chicago alumni. 
Next affair scheduled here is Universal Night on April 17 at the Palmer House. . Toih McCahe 
Cincinnati 
Andrew P. Barton, *32. 3063 Portsmouth Avenue, Pres. 

The annual dinner meeting of the club was held Jan. 26. J- Walter Kennedy, director of pub­licity for the University, was the sjKaker and showed moving pictures of the Great Lakes and. Georgia Tech games. 
Andy Barton, president, presided. Dinner ar­rangements were directed by Dirfc Scallan. Ninety persons attended. 
Cleveland 
Pierce J. O'Connor, '23. 2129 Lamberton Rd., Pres., James R. Begkr, 242S Onriook Rd., Sec 

Charles A. Mooney has been appointed to tlie School Board of the Cleveland Board of Educa­tion. Lt. Tom Xolan, of the Navy, reported from the South Pacific Lt. F. Scfarocter, of the Navy, is back from Panama to Ft. Lauderdale in ord­nance. John Gleaaon, ex-city councilman, has been appointed by Don Miller to the District Attor­ney's office. Lt- Edward (Dnke) Murphy of N.Y.C. was in town recently on leave. ' 
The following men attended the annual lay­men's retreat: Hnih Ball, Rocer Brennan. TWm­as F. Byrne, J. Pat Canny, Philip DKII. Dr. F. 
J. Gannon, Joe Gavin, Georce Halm. C. G. Le­ronx, Geoixe Kervcr, Kail Martentedc, Dr. Hiram HcCarty, Charles Mooney, Cyril Jttt, Jaka 
J. Reidy, Sam Sylvester. Gcoise Thoaua; and James Uprichaid. The retreat master was Father 
J. Barry, S.J.. and the assistant retreat master was Father James S. Doylei S.J. Karl Marter­steck was captain. 
Lt. Jade Sdiroeter is with the Army in the South Pacific Walter Bartll is now a major with the Army in Europe. 
Father Fraacia Gudill, C.S.C.. field secretary of the Alumni Association, stopped in Cleveland in connection with his new duties. Aimm WaUi has been hired as head coach of the Cleveland Rams by his brother Ckailes F. (CUk) WalA, eeneral manager. Lt. Fiaak Gaal. stationed in Alameda, Calif., with the Navy, has a new baby girl, Barbara Ann. Lt, Taai Cnaty is in Modes­to, Calif., in the cavalry. 
Jiaa Becky 

Defoware 
WOliaai DL Baiky, '24. 8N River Rd..^Uvtr­tUe Gaideas, Wifaaiactan. Pm. ; TWaua P. Dccaaa. '42. TJf.C.A.. Wlimisctmi,-Actias Sc& 
C. Stewart Lynch, retiring shortly as a special ­assistant to the U. S. Attorney General, addressed the club at the Febmary meeting. He said that Catholic laymen should always live their religion in all the concerns of life, public as well as pri­vate. He also counselled fearless public defense of the moral teaching of the church. 
Jalm Veikaae has been appointed chairman of the committee in CY.O. affairs. Members of tlie club have talcen over supervi»on of the sports activities of the younger boys between 12 and 16. Jahn Reith. Wiffiaa COcaa. Tkamas Decaaa, and Carl Irwin are assisting in this activity. 
Walter J. Cardta, our secretary, has been trans­ferred from the Chambers Works of the dnPont Company to the Grasselli, N. J., plant. He is now living in Westfield. N. J. 
TiMiBas F. Decaaa 

Defroif 
Naraum J. Fnderiita. '23,14M Giatiat Ave. Pres-: Jahn T. Annas. "ZS, 1«S14 LaSalk, See. 
A report, attractively mimeographed and bound, recently presented in concise form to the club members a review of the activities of the club in 1944. Hie outgoing officers, including President Harry J. Chtk. Vice-President Nanaaa J. Fred­ericks. Secretary Gcargc B. Marris. and Treasurer Loais W. Narsaa, presented a summary of a year that was successful in varied activities, member­ship participation and financial return. 
New officers of the club are Nana Frcderida. president; Gcaice Mania, vice-president; Jeka T-Annas. secretary, and Paal E. Rist. treasurer. 
Indianapolis 
B. BOdMcI Fas. "U. 423 BacUachaaa Dr.. Pre : Fraads L. (Hike) Laydta. It . 1711 Keaakr Blvd.. See. 
On Universal Nottb Dame Night. April 9, the club will open its permanent quarters in the Knights of Columbas Home. 1305 N. Delaware S t Through the kindness of the local knights, Notrt Dame aien locally will have a small room on the main floor of the clobboase. In it a register of alumni names and addresses In the Indianapolis area, as well as a library containing, especially, alt publications from the University. 
At his latest report. Mifca Fax. president of the club, was in the middle of the difficult job of gathering, from any willing source, fumishingt for the new room. 
Milwaukee 
Ckaries O'Neill. '27, 2479 S. 95 St., Pres.; Jahn Claader, '34. 4809 X. Woodbam St., Sec 
Club members met -with BUI Dfioley, assistant 
alumni secretary, on March 12 to discuss a pro­
sram of activity for 1945. President Charlie 
O'NciU presided at a tlinner in the City Club. 
Fuiken Fat Huverty, CS.C., and Georse 
Meaffker, C.S.C., came in from Watertown. Wis.. 
40 miles away, where they are pastor and as­
sistant pastor respectively, and Father Adrian 
Race, newly ordained, attended his iirst club roeet­
ing. Ll. (j«) Bin SdiaOer, heroic Na\'y flyer re­
cently returned from the Pacific, was also present. 
Plans were made for the observance of Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night on April 9. with Father 
Tom Brcnnan, C^.C.t from the University, as the 
chief spealrer. 
New York City 
James F. Dwyer. '26, 49 WaU St., Pres.; Edward Beckman. '16, 40 S. Drive. Plan-dome. Sec 
-
 James F. Dwyer, '26. Brooklyn lawyer, was elected president of the club at its annual elec­tion meeting on Bfarch 7. Succeeding Jim as vice-president was Edwin A. Berkerj-. '27. Edward Bedcman. '16, was re-elected secretary-, and John 

A.
 Hoyt. Jr.. '33. was chosen treasurer. 


Speakers at the meeting were Rev. Francis P. Goodall. CS'C.. recently selected as a "traveling representative for the Alumni AssociaUon," and Herman Hickman, line coach at West Point. Father Goodall discussed the vocational counseling pro­gram at the University, which he is directing; Coach Hickman discussed, largely, a certain Sat­urday afternoon last November. 
Rev. Robert B. Brown, assistant director of the 
C.Y.O. in the New" York archdiocese, was the speaker at the club meeting on Jan. 25. 
PAilocfefpfifo 
HaE«ld Dake, '30. 4030 N. Broad St . (Rad­tSiM C9ft. Hancock 3153) Pres.; Joseph F. Cattie. '41, €302 Gardenia St.. (German­tawn MOB) Sec 
On the evening of Feb. 5, Ed McKeever and Walter Kennedy, publicity director, spoke to a Eathering of Notre Dame men of Philadelphia. Approximately 120 attended. Pictures of the Georgia Tech game were shown. 
Harold Dake, club president, and Dr. Edward Lyons were in charge of the meeting. 
St, Louis 
JciMM C. Amald. '24, 7409 Arlington St., 
KicbMnd Heichts, Pres.; Fred C. Weber, 
Jr., '36, M39 Universaty Drive, Sec 
On March 11, the club had its annual Com­munion-Breakfast. Sixty-three members received Communion in the chape] at St. Louis University. Fatker Ryan. SJ.. our chaplain, said the Mass. and Father ^Uoran, president of St. Louis Uni­versity, delivered the sermon. Rev. Raphael Mc­Carthy, SJ,, former president of Marquette Uni­versity, talked at the breakfast. 
There was a gratil^ing turnout for this affair. Oar dab monbersbip has been markedly decreased by reason of the number of men in the services. 
Fred C. Weber, Jr. 
Twin Cities 
Clarence G. Liemandt, ex. '32. 831 Nordi 
Weatem Bank BIdc>, Minneapolis. Pres.; 
Ed Kridc Sec 
Alamni ranging from Louis Chute, who re­ceived his first Notre Dame degree in 1&90. to Dick Ames, who was graduated on Feb. 28. 1945. attended'the meeting of the club in the K. of C. Club in Minneapolis on March 14. Bill Doslry, assistant alumni secretary, discussed with the dob members a tentative program for 1S45. Bad Lie­mandt. president, presided. Emmett Barron, '27. Des Moines. la., was an additional out-of-town guest. 
Washington, D. C. 
Bernard E. Loskkongfa. '29. 5610 Colorado Ave, N. W., Prea. 
Rev. Wilfrid Parsons. S.J.. former editor-in-chief of "America," now a member of the faculty at Georgetown, was the speaker at the dub meeting in the Carlton Hotel on Feb. 15. Lt. (jg) Valen­tine B. Deale, USNR, was diairman of the meet­ing. Joe Borda was chairman of the Communion-breakfast on March 25 at Holy Cross College. 
Western Pennsyfvanio 
' Fnnas 1. Wilaon, *28, Chunber of Cea­mene Bide., Pittikarsfa. Pa:, Fm. ; WiOiaai 
H. H. Ginder, Jr., '31, 11C6 Honiracdde Are.. PittifcaiKli, Sec 

The highlight of the -winter's social activiities ivas a luncheon held at the William Penn Hotel on Jan. 30, in honor of Dean Pat Blanion, '22, who addressed the Catholic University Club on that evening. All credit for the success of thb in­spiring meeting should go to Dr. Leo O'Donndl, '17. -who initiated the idea and made all the nec­essary arrangements. However, he modestly claimed that Fritz Wilson should receive some of the honors. 
ITiose in attendance were Dr. O'Donndl, 'Hack Gallagher, '30. Jade Barr, '24, John Reardon, '22, Leo Voce!. '17, Ed Byrnes, '25, Hon. Haih Boyk, '24, Jack Sbeedy, '28, John Briky, '23, Earl Brie­fer, '31, Carl Link, '35, and the ivijter. (Some­one forget to get in touch with the guest of honor, Mr. Manion). 
At the culmination of this highly successful meeting, it was decided to elect Dr. O'Donnell. chairman of a luncheon program commitee, as his original idea offers infinite possibilities. We can have lunches -without any number of people 
On a serious note, 25 members and friends of the club attended the club's 13th annual retreat at St. Paul's Retreat House, Feb. 2-4. The re­treatants u-ere gratified by a congratulatory tele­gram from Her. J. Hnih O'DonneO, C.S.C. 
W. H. H. Ginder, Jr. 
HANLEY IS HONORED 

Lt. Frank J. Hanley of Providence, K. I., assistant professor of art at Notre Dame, on leave, has j-eceived a letter of commendation for his services as regis­tered publications officer on the staff of an amphibious force commander in the Mediterranean. He has taken part in four major amphibious operations, in­cluding the invasions of Sicily, the Ital­ian mainland and southern France, "and under trjnng and dangerous conditions has at all times been dependable," -the citation says. The letter signed by Vice Admiral H. Kent Hewitt, commander of the U. S. Eighth fleet, was presented to Lt. Hanley by Rear Admiral Frank J. Lowry, who commanded a naval tank force to southern France and at Anzio. 
FATHER McAVOy ON WHOT 

Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History, is giving three radio talks on "Pope Pius XII and the Coming Peace," over Station WHOT, South Bend, on the first three Mondays in April. 
The first of the series, "Pius XII and the Causes of War," was given April 2; that of April 9 will be "Pius XII and the Principles of a Just Peace"; and that of April 16, "The Pope and the Coming Peace." The statements of the Pope re­garding the moral principles of the com­ing i>eaee will be keyed to the approach­ing peace conference at San Francisco. 
GIVES DRAWINGS TO N.D. 

Arthur Adams, distinguished Chicago architect, has presented to the Depart­ment of Architecture at Notre Dame, a group of drawings which he made as a student in Paris shortly after the turn of the century and for later competitions in this country. 
Recently winner of the competition for the design of a new broadcasting station to be erected by Station WON in Chica­go, Mr. Adams was in 1904 the winner of the coveted Paris Prize, entitling him to spend three years as a student at the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris. 
PROF. ACKERMANN IN DUBUQUE 
Prof. Francis X. Ackermann, for more than a half century, a teacher of engi­neering drawing at Notre Dame, is now a resident of St. Anthony's Home, Du­buque, la., and would be more than hap­py to hear from any or all of his former students. 
O'GRApy AT JEFFERSON BARRACKS 
Capt. Daniel C. O'Grady, professor of philosophy on leave, is now chief psy­chologist at the rehabilitation center in Jefferson Barracks, Ho., near St. Louis. Captain O'Grady entered the Army as a private in the spring of 1943. 
WINS ARCHITEQURE PRIZE 

First prize winner in a national com­petition recently sponsored by the Beaux 
' Arts Institute of Design was Bernard J. Slater, Sharon, Pa., a Notre Dame archi­tecture student. Mr. Slater won the award for his design of a "Community Roll of Honor," in the Spiering Prize competition. 
The impassioned singing of operatic heroes and heroines will replace the noisy cadence of marching feet in the Navy Drill Hall on April 18 when the San Car­lo Ojiera Company presents "Rigoletto" as the semester's first event in the Stu­dent Concert Series. 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagemenfs 
Miss Ruth E. Schorr and Lt. Phillip Darmody, •33. 
Miss Mary Ann Ward and Rajrmond James Linder, ex. '35. 
Miss Marion Klizabeth Boyle and Major Fred­erick Pen r Jenks. H.S., '39. 
Miss Kta Cuzzi and Lt. (is) Tlionias Boyd Kenedy, '42. 
Miss Hary Jane Cushwa and Kendall A. Nic­
lii. graduate student, 1940-42. 
Miss Mary Garrod and Sgt. Robert W. Towner, ex. '43. 
Miss Aurorita Bntler and Ens. John T. Whitely. ex. '44. 
Miss Julia Elizabeth Carney and VfjO Vincent 
J. Ryan. AAF. '40. 
Lt. (JK) Ruth Joan Barry and Lt. Thomas P. Coraerford, ITSNR, '42. 
Miss Bette Kamm and Ens. Noel F. Dicby, ex. '45. 
Miss Virginia Walsh and Petty Officer Gordon 
D. WUttier. ex. '48. 
Marriages 
Miss Marie Louise Hickey and James M..Ham­ilton. '35, Portland, Ore., Feb. 10. 
Miss Jane B. Koontz and John J. Lechner, '37, South Bend. Fe1>. 10. 
Miss Elizabeth Fox and Lt. Charles J. Haca­luso. *38, New Orleans. 
Miss Jeannette Carol Wix and Lawrence J. Larkin. AUS, '38, New York aty, Jan. 12. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth O'Brien and Lt. Peter Sandrodc. '39, Pulaski, N. Y., Jan. 22. 
Miss Elizabeth Briscoe and Captain J. Fred Simon. Jr., '39, Waco, Tex., Jan. 25. 
Miss Myra Evelyn Miller and Mize Morris '40. Shelbina, Mo., Jan. 28. 
Miss Anne Louise Eidell and Lt. (jc> Thomas 
P. Wan, Jr., '40. Nashville, Tenn., Jan. 31. 
Miss Gertrude Matemowski and Lt. (jg) Rob­ert W. DcMoss, '42, South Bend, Feb. 11. 
Miss Harjorie Kennan and Lt. Lawrence J. Kelly, '42, Los Angeles, Feb. 10. 
Miss Cecile Ward and Lt. (jg) Michael D. Kelly, '42, Notre Dame, Feb. 10. 
Bliss Corine Reifers and Lt. <j() H. G. Mac­Donald. '42, Notre Dame, March T. Jack Malone. ^42. was the best man. 
Miss Helen Simpson McLean and Lt. (jg) Frederick P. Gore. '43, Aberdeen. Scotland, Jan. 27. 
Miss Bfartha Kincaid Hopper and Ens. Francis 
R. Beaadine. '44, Mt Ranier, Md.. Jan. 20. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Reardon. '22, announce the birth of a son. Mr. and Mrs. Ed S. SoiliTan. '24. announce the birth of Christine Marie, March 2. Mr. and Mrs. Albert E. Foos, '25, announce the birth of a son, Jan. 31. Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Fallon, '26. announce the birth of Andrea, Feb. 16. Mr. and Mrs. J. Norbert Gclson, '26. announce the birth of Gregory, Nov. 13. Mr. and Mrs. Bernard K. Wingertcr. '26. an­nounce the birth of Mary Patricia, Feb. 27. Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Klaai, '27, announce the birth of John Joseph, Dec. 26. Capt. and Mrs. Robert P. Fogerty. '28, an­nounce the birth of James Edward, Jan. 26. Lt. and Mrs. Gerald J. Crowley. '29, announce the birth of Kathleen, Jan. 12. Lt. and Mrs. John J. Elder, '30, announce the birth of Jane Ellen, Feb. 23. Mr. and Mrs. T. Vincent Mclntire, '30. an­nounce the birth of a son. 
Lt. Cmdr. and Mrs. Richard L. Donogkae, '31, announce the birth of Richard Laurence, Jr., Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. O'Malley, '32, an­nounce the birth of Annabelle, Jan. 23. Lt. and Mrs. James D. Ash, '33, announce the ­birth of Kent Nogle, March 8. Major and Mrs. Andrew E. O'Keeffe, '33, an­nounce the birth of Mary Jo, Jan. 23. . Lt. and Mrs. Joseph D. A. McCabe. '33, an­nounce the birth of Erin Kathleen. Feb. 20. Lt. (jg) and Mrs. Edward A. Olczak, '33, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Feb. 1. Mr. and Mrs. Gerald P. Doyle. '35. announce the birth of James Eloi, Feb. 21. Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Lee, '35, announce the birth of Richard Ashton, Feb. 27. Mr. and Mrs. John W. Norton, '36, announce the birth of Dorothy Mary, Jan. 30. Lt. and Mrs. Cyril F. Stroker, '37, announce the birth of Lynn Marie, Jan. 20. Mr. and Mrs. Robert h. WaMeek, '37, announce the birth of Patricia Sue. Feb. 1. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Owen, '35, announce the birth of a son, Feb. 5. Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Voorde, ex. '36, an­nounce the birth of a son, Feb. 3. Lt.-(jg) and Mrs. Larry E. Danbaai, '37, an­nounce -the birth of Robert Edward, Jan. 14. Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Fehlig, '37, announce the birth of Susan Margaret, Jan. 26. Mr. and Mrs. Raymond E. Loncstreth, '37. announce the birth of a son. Lt. (jg) and Mrs. Robert J. Bryan, '38, an­nounce the birth of James Patrick. Feb. 13. Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Stteater, '39. 'announce the birth of Mary Noel, Felj. 21. Mr. and Mrs. James R. Begley, '49, announca the birth of Thomas Francis HI, Dec 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jaraca W. Plammer, '40, announce the birth of a son. Young Mr. Plnnuner was one of three sons of Notre Dame graduates to be born in The Good Samaritan Hospital, Zanesville. O.. within two weAa. The otben we n the aona of Bar iMwaticth, 'ST. and Vinee Ke-Intirc 'SO. 
Lt. and Hn . M m D. Jaliaa, '40. annoonec the biith of Sarah Anna. FA. 7. . Lt. and Mrs. Udnn I J. SteBaaiak. '40, an­noonee the birth of a dan^rtcr, Ab . 1. 1st Lt. and Mrs. Jaaeih CMMina. '41.''an­noonee the birth of Joaeph. Jr.. Jan. ZI. Lt. (JK) and Mra. Batett J. IbItad^ '41. an­nounce tha birth of a daosAter, Oct. 5. Lt and Mrs. naaili P. Caaaan^ '42, aaaonnee the birth of Donald Ftaneia. Jr!^ ¥A. 21. 
Mr. and Mn. •ayiai J. Ornmnm, '42. aa­noonee the birth of twins, Hiehael John and Patricia Ann, Feb. I. 
Daafks 
Gerald J. Daily. '21. Hnskogee. Okla.. died sud­denly of a heart attack on Kk. 15. Genr aamd in tiie Aleutians in this war before heinK honor­ably discharged in April, 1943. He had been in failing health for several months. 
Gerald had been active in his local Knighta of Columbus, of which he served as grand knight, and iiad held a state office in the Knighta. Be is survived by his mother. Mrs. Anna A. Daily. Ifas­kogeie, and his sister. Sster Marie Reneta. C.S.C.. St. Mary's College. Notre Dame. 
The Alumni OflSee has only recently learned of the death, on May 28. 1944, of Bichat X. Giaail-Uaa. E.E., '28, Indianapolis. Sorvivin^ him a n his wife and a son' and dau^ter. OriginaUy £rom Alexandria. La., he was employed by the In^aaa Bell Telephone Co. 
Kabert L. Daan, Niles. Midi., a member of the class off '44. died in his hone last August after being seriously ill sinee June 15. 
Bob enlisted in One Army Dee. 4. 1942. and be­came very ill as an after effect of the fla whidi he contracted while traininK in Looinana. at Canp Claiborne He reedved a medical ^adiarge, Oct. 9, 1943. firom Harmon Goieral hospital in Texas. 
Bob was a member of the American Legion, tha Kni^ts of Cohnnbos, ibe Villagers dub of Notn Dame and tlie Holy Name Sodety of St. llazf's Church, Niles. His parents, two sisters and a brother survive him. 
-The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Fraak C. WaKer, '09, whose son-in-law waa killed in action: Aitiar C. Kccney. '22. and M. J. PaawalBrr. ex. '04. on the death of their wifa and sister; Mark K.. '21, Lsa B.. ex. '24. a>d CatI E., '34, ZiauMier. on the death of thdr mother: Daaid. '22, and Fktter Bcraaid J. Ca^hlia. '2C. on the death of thdr father: Bab­crt E. KMy, '29, on the death of his father: Cyril A. Hachts. '30, on the death of his Csflier: Jaha W. ^aiima, *31, on the death of Us father; WOBaB H. H. Giadcr. '31, on the death of his father: Jocaiah J. SUme. '38, oa the death of his mother; Bahcit "Bed" liSMigaa. '4S. on the death of his &ther; Bkhard WhiliaK ex. '45. on the death of his father: Bratbar C.S.C.. on the death of Iiis mother. 
PERSONALS 
1900.04 ^^^*^' ^' Proctor. '04, Mon I TWW V-f ^^^ Building, Elkhart, Ind. 
Honored by His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, with the decoration of Master Knighthood in the Sovereign Military Order of The Knights of Malta, Justice Ernest E. L, Hammer, *04, of the Su­preme Court of the State of New York, is invested by Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, bishop-elect of Buf­falo. The investiture ceremony took place on Jan. 8, 1945, at a dinner in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York City. 
Justice Hammer is the father of Rev. Edmond F. Hammer, *36, of the arch­diocese of New York, and the brother of Thomas A. Hammer, *06. 
1 90S*0 9 ^^^-"^bos-£• Burke, CS.C,
WT^9 W7 ,Qy^ jj^j^^ Dame, Ind. 
A letter, laden witli memories, was received from A. M. Tresler, Madison, Wis., who attended 
N.D. from 1901 until 1903. when he was compelled to leave because of sickness. ". . -\\'TiiIe at Notre Dame, I lived in St. Joe Hall and waited on tables in the senior refectorj* under old Brownson Hall. Father Houlihan was our priest in charge and Brother Florian was prefect of discipline. I have had the pleasure of readins. and that sev­eral times, the fine 'Do You Remember' pam­phlet which was published in 1941. I can well rememter some of the fine professors you men­tion, for instance. Professors Bcnitz (my math teacher) and Ackermann. I recall Father Maguire as my chemistry prof and Father Quinlnn, our EnElish teacher. Robert Lj-nch, (Bobby), who was captain of the 1902 N.D. baseball team, is pres­ently a member of the "Wisconsin legislature, and we meet on occasions and talk of our Notre Dame days. I was also well acquainted w^th the late Father Dominic O'Malley, who hailed from near Madison. 
"Since November, 1941, I have been acting as chief engineer for the Madison Metropolitan Sew­erage District in place of the chief, who is on leave and in the U.S. naval service." 
To Frank Shau^uiessy, '06. president of the International league, goes sincere sympathy at the word that his 22-year old son, Phil, is missing in action in France. Phil was with the first Canadian Army on the northern end of the big allied drive against Germany. 
191 7 B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., 
• " ^ Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Eugene Cronk, a CPA, is assistant secretary and treasurer of the D'Arcy Adv. Co., St. Louis­
1914 ^^^^^ ^-Hayes, 642 Third Ave., Chula Vista, Calif. 
A captain and ser\-ing in the finance office, Charles Dutrieux's address is APO 986. Seattle. Wash. 
1915 ^^^^^ ^-Sanford, 5236 N. Lakewood Ave., Chicago, HI. 
Joseph Scott, LL,D. *15, prominent Los An­geles Catholic layman and attorney, has been given an additional honor by His Holiness Pope Pius XII, who has appointed him a Private Chamberlain of the Sword and Cape. Mr. Scott is also a Knight of Malta and a Knight of St. Gregory. 
lOI X Grover F. Miller, 610 Wisconsin • ** Ave., Racine, Wis. 
Portland industrj* added another "M" pennant to its long list of war-bom honors when the mar­itime commission formally made the presentation to the Schmitt Steel Ca. (Bill Schmitt. '10, pres­ident). Hugh Lacey, Portland, thoughtfully sent to the Alumni Office a clipping about the big event. Fr. Charles Jliltner, C.S.C., president of the University of Portland, ofi'ered the invocation at the presentation ceremonj*. 
Hugh's son, who was at Notre Dame for a year, is now a fleet marine. The junior Lacey, later attended the College of the Pacific, playing, at 155 pounds, halfback under Alonzo Slagg's direc­tion. 
At the quarterly meeting of the Supreme Board of Directors held in Baltimore, Jan. 21-22, 1945. Supreme Director Tim Galvin resigned as su­preme master of the Fourth Degree K. of C. Hie pressure of Turn's personal business had become so marked that he could no longer continue in the supreme master's duties. The board appointed a committee to draft resolutions expressing its ap­preciation of Hm's ser\*ices iJuring the four-year period of the Fourth's Degree's greatest progress. 
Grover Miller in his note to this office said that he had just left the hospital after a siege of rheumatism and that his brother, Bemie, ex. '17, had also been hospitalized due to over­work. Grover visited the New York City Club on March 7 and met Ed Bcckman. a club officer. 
1917 ^-^' ^**"' ^**® ^' "^"^ ^*-' 
South Bend, Ind. 
Deepest sj-mpathj-is extended to Haro' Scott, Indianapolis, whose 5on, Phil, has been reported missing in action. 
1 99 0 ^^^ ^-^a^d* 1012 Black Bldg., 
• ^^^ Los Angeles, Calif. 
From Leo Ward: 
"My ex-roommate, WilUam J. McGrath, is listed on the alumni records as being dead. Last week­end I had a crall from his son, William McGrath, Jr., of the U.S. Marines. He tells me his father is very much alive and resides at 5309 W. Mon­roe St, Chicago 44. 111. 
"I also had a letter from Capt. John L. Hns­maker, formerly J, Lyle Musmaker. He advises that he has been overseas and returned in Octo­ber and is now stationed at Rosecrans Held. St. Joseph, Mo. He says that he has been in touch with Tom Beacom, Father Tom Tobin, Powers, Conmghan and Ellie Moore, and they expect to be back on the campus in June for a 25-year reunion." 
1991 ^^n ^' Duffy, 1600 Terminal 
• ^ ^ • Tower, Cleveland, O. 
Al McGann, South Bend, president and treas­urer of Albert McGann Securities Co., Inc.. headed the important special gifts division in the financial campaign for the Red Cross in February. Al recently opened elegant new quarters in the 
J.M.S. Building. 
A veteran of two years' ser\*ice with the Sea-bees out in the Pacific, Lt. Callix Miller, South Bend, completed a special course in the Navy-school at Princeton University and is now based in Monterey, Calif. 
MAJOR RAYMOND J. MEAD 
A letter with the customary heading of "some­where" in England was received from Major Ray Mead, ex. *21, in January: "I have been stationed here in England for 20 months as engineering officer in a sub-depot attadied to a hea%7 bom­bardment group/' Ray wrote. *'I find my work most interesting and have a fine bunch of sol­diers with me. Many of them are now finishing their third year of service. I now have two and one-half 5*ears credit in this war, plus one and one-half years in World War 1. I wonder at times what an old buck like me is doing in this young man's war. 
"Onr Catholic chaplain. Father Phillips, comes from Fort Wayne and is acquainted at Notre Dame, having attended a session of summer sdiool. We have had many talks about good old N. D." 
192 9 Gerald Ashe, 19 Dorking Road, ^ ^ Rochester, N. Y. 
From Kid Aahe: 
The first man of 1922 to give his life in the present war was Lt. Arnold McGrath of the Service of Supply Forces. Arnold died in the ex­plosion of a supply ship in the Southwest Pacific lest Januarj-. 
Arnold had years of military training with an Illinois National Guard field artillery outfit, and volunteered his services in any. capacity immedi­ately after the Peart Harbor attack. For months he ^vas attached to the staff of the Oakland Sub Port of Embarkation. Durins" that period, your secretary had a few dinner meeting "with him whereat Arnold confided his ardent desire to be out in the thick of action where he could be rendering the greatest possible service. In our conversations, Arnold spoke glowingly of his old classmates and inquired into the whereabouts and doings of most of them including Emmett "3Iutt" Burke, Jim Murtaagh, Harold McKee and Martin Brennan. 

The class of 1922 has lost a real gentleman, a real soldier, and a loyal classmate. Our sympathy to Arnold's mother and other relatives. Arnold did not marry. 
A quick call for volunteers to attend a class luncheon gathering of a Saturday noon in Janu­arj' at the La Salle Hotel, Chicago, brought a fine response. Those attending were John Paul CuUen, Doc Hughes, Jcrr>' Dixon, Tom McCabe. AI Carroll, Joe Farley, Bruce Holmberg, Harold McKce* and the writer. 
Paul Pfohl is now an executive of Les Muter & Co., Radio Parts Manufacturing Co., Chicago. 
A recent visit to Louisville. Ky., afforded op­portunities for meetings with Frank Bloemcr and Efldie Pfeiffer of 1922, and Comie Pfciffer and Joe Donaldson of 1923. Father Time has been mighty good to all of these men, and they look quite the same as they did in their campus days. Frank is owner of the Bloemer Food Sales Co. Eddie and Cornie conduct the Pfeiffer & Pfeiffer Insurance (Fire) Ca, Joe Donaldson, who is a Kentucky "colonel," is director of public safety in charge of police and firemen. The classes of 1922 and 1923 have reason to be proud of their Louisville representatives. 
The fame of attorney James Vincent Jones of Rochester is spreading. Jim was in Louisville a couple months ago in behalf of a client. 
Bill Castcllini resigned in February his position as manager of the Civic Department of the Cin­cinnati Chamber of Commerce, to head the public relations department of Stokes-Palmer-Dinerman. Inc., advertising, industrial and public relations counselors, Carew Tower, Cincinnati. 
1924 ^' ^' Hayes, 393 - 7th Ave., ^ ^ Room 1515, New York City. 
The appointment of Ray Hoyer, M.A. '24, as manager of the South Bend social security office was announced in February. A former member of the staff of St. Joseph county welfare depart­ment and a former professor of social work in the graduate school at Notre Dame, Ray for four years had been employed in Tennessee. Alabama and Indiana as 'a defense area executive of the federal security agency. 
Conroy Scoggins is associated with the Humble Oil and Rfg. Co., Houston, Tex., in the law de­partment 
*24 men will be interested in a letter received from Lt, Cmdr. Jim Swift, c/o FPO. San Fran­cisco : 
"There are a substantial number of Notre Dame men in and through this Mariana Island but. very naturally, there are few of the old bucks of my vintage in the service. Few of us were hardy enough to withstand the rigors of those colossal Junior Proms and Senior balls, together with the poisonous beverages of the West End. and still pass a service physical exam at this late date. 
"I left New Orleans a year ago and spent a couple of months in New York before shoving off. While in New York I made several attempts to contact Jim Hayes to buy him a drink for his outstanding service as correspondent for the class of 1924, but my efforts were fruitless, no doubt because Jim was too deeply engrossed in writing his regular lengthy notes to hear the telephone. If Jim will double his efforts I suggest the class double his salary. 
"While on the way out to this spot I was de­lighted to run into Jim Murtangh, '22. who was in full command of an alleged South Sea Isle, where he was doing all right and enjoying the luxury of refrigeration and other modem conven­iences 'sans* the fabled romance of the area. 
"Recent letters from Pat Buell. Dallas, and Earl Hurley, Chicago, indicate that they are in good shape. Joe Blache, of Hammond. La., and Charlie de la Vergne. of New Orleans, have ap­parently mastered the Napoleonic code and are doing well in the practice of law. Kay Brady dropped in on me at N.O. on his return to the States from Army duty in the Panama Canal area. Jim Shaw also showed up at N.O. to enjoy the southern winter climate and do some lowd refinancing of the old French-Quarter market. Kex Enright. *26, brought his Georgia Pre-Flight team to N.O. in the fall of '43 to crush Tulane in a terrific 13 to 12 battle, observed by Frank Thom­as, who is now only slightly broader than he is tall." 
I 095 ^^^^ ^- Hurley, AFD, American Red Cross, Camp Patrick Henry, Virginia. 
Cliff Potts, one of South Bend's best known attorneys and a leading republican, was appointed by Gov. Ralph F. Gates judge of the newly created St, Joseph county probate and juvenile court You can find the ex-drum major presiding —with a baton—in the court house, across from the Oliver Hotel. 
Paul Dooley, president of the Auto-Marine Mfg. Co.. Toledo, had luncheon with Prof, Gcorce Driscoll on the campus in late January. Paul runs a machine shop with enameling facilities, employ­ing 15 to 30 people. He spoke proudly of his two sons. 
Paal Rmhe has moved from Indianapolis to Tulsa. Okla.. where he is with the Gulf Refining Company, P.O. Box 661. 
1926 ^^^^^^ ^- L«°^>ner, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 
This is an AP story as printed in the "Chicago Tribune" of Feb. 3, 1945: 
"NASUGBU. Luzon, Feb. 3—Senor Antonio Roxas, aristocratic Spanish landlord and business executive of this town, leaned back on his divan and said, " *You just cannot argue with the Japanese.* 
"He talked just after American Sth army troops had landed at Nasugbu, south of Manila bay. 
" *When the Japanese came in here after the fall of Manila they decided to take over some of our land and raise cotton,* Roxas continued. 'But cotton will not grow here. Neither the land nor the climate is suitable. But it was no use. They had decided to raise cotton and that was ail there was to it.* 
" 'They took producing sugar cane land, cleaned it out and planted cotton. Needless to say, it was a dismal failure. So they decided we should raise sugar cane­
" 'They came here one time and said they were going to take most of our rice crop. We give three-fourths of the yield to the workers and keep one-quarter for the company. So we explained if they took the rice the workers would starve. Since most of our workers and their families also work in sugar cane or the refinery, where we produce industrial alcrohol, we argued that production of alcohol, which the Japs use as motor fuel, would fall off sharply because the workers would be undernourished.* 
Clem Crowe. '26, new head coach of footboU at the 0iiiTeiait7 of Iowa, will haw his own special cheering section in Iowa City, as he had it at Notre Dame, where, until April 1. he was acting head coach of bosketboU and assistant coach of football. Here, in a picture token at a Notre Dame basketball game this winter, are Qem and his wife, Mary, and their nine children. Left to right, front row: Ann, lohnny and Clem. Second row: Dick. Mary. Catherine, lim. Hear row: Bob, Mary. Rita, Pat (of the Navy) and Joan. 
" 'But, as I say. you simply cannot argue 'with the Japanese. He y took the rice, the workers went hungry, the alcohol output dropped. It was­n't long before they decided they didn't need any more rice.* 
" 'When the Japanese took over our house we moved to Ifanila. fVom time to time various Jap commanders lived here- They stripped the house bare.* 
"Roxas was graduated in foreign commerce at Notre Dame in 1926. 
" 'Tell me.' he asked, 'is it true Notre Dame was beaten by Army, 59 to 0 ?' " 
Military intelligence: Frank Bon» now a full commander. Is stationed at Norfolk, Ya.. in care of the deputy chief of staff of the Atlantic Fleet; Francis D. **Batdi'* Blowing has been in the Navy well over two years and, at the latest re­port, was a yeoman second class, serving in the Pacific; John O'Donnell, hard of Maysville. ^. . is likewise in the Navy and in the Pacific hut he is pharmacist's mate, second class, it says here on the card. 
Sister Monica* of the Ursulines of Brown Ck)un­ty, Ohio, who received her PhJ). in 1926, is the author of a volume of meditation thoughts, "Hope of Life." published by P. J. Kenedy and Sons. 
192 7 •'os«pl^ M. Boland, Radio Sta­'^ ' tion WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: 
This month's report contains names previously unheard of . . . names like Jack Ohnemns . . . who is now with Addressograph>Multigraph Corp., 1200 Babbitt Rd.. Cleveland 17. Jack had put in many years with the Studebaker Corp., Soirth Bend, editing plant publications, and he's direct­ing the same kind of work in Cleveland. 
And Mike McDersott . . . reported to the sec. in South Bend, where his travels had taken him because of the illness of his wife's father— a South Bend resident. Mike is now west coast eales manager of Hillenbrand Furniture Co.. of Batesville. Ind., and he now lives at San Carlos, Calif., .. . on the peninsula south of San Francisco. 
Artknr *3ad'' Boeringcr .. . is now a resi­dent of Park Rapids, Minn having retired from football coaching after umpteen years as Gtu Dorais* right-hand man at the University of Detroit. We're not certain of Bud's business con­nections .. . so a letter this way (or, a card!) will help. 
Jolui McManwon is back at his old job of direc­tor of parks for the state of Massachusetts . . . after a hitch in the Navy as a lieutenant. We've probably got John's title all mixed up, but John will probably say that's natural: the left tackles never could remember the signals, and the right tackles had to help *em out! 
Frank McDinie, legal light of the Chicago bar, has Increased his candle-power to the point where his brilliance Is fast becoming blinding in his profession. Recently, Frank was sworn in as pub­lic defender for that city: a position of much importance and responsibility which Frank most certainly has the stature to fill. 
Steve "Whispering** Bielli .. . a quondam '27 member . . . was another South Bend visitor re­cently, with his charming wife. Steve is a whole­sale grocer in Phoenix. Aris. 
And Ridurd "Red" Smith, the Kaukauna Flash, Is the new right-hand man to Charley Grimm ms a coach of the Chicago Cubs. The ro­tund Kchard tutors the line of the New York football Giants in the fall, and works with the Cabs in the summer: and he thrives on it, to judge frcHD his pictuzes. 
You write in! 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
More about McCarrie: Assistant state's attorney lor the last 12 years, he was sworn in Feb. 21 as Cook county, Chicago, public defender, "ne cere­mony took place at a meeting of the executive committees of the Circuit and Superior court judges. I^Vank succeeds Benjamin Baduad^ *92, the first to occupy the office, who resigned because of illness. Mr. Bachrach will continue with the public defender's office in an advisory capacity. 
Appointment of J. Ftmnk Odilhoffen* formerly sales manager and director of advertising for Bantam Bearings diinsion of the Torrington Co., South Bend, as assistant to the president of Kay-don Engineering Corp., Muskegon, Mich., was an­nounced in January by the president of that or­ganization. 
CPL. WILLIAM E . CARTER, '27 
A Fifteenth Air Force B-24 Liberator Heavy bomb gronp in Italy thougbt it would be nice to haye colored eggs for Easter. The job of providing them was assigned to Cpl. William £. Carter, '27, South Orange, N. J., who found only the overseas variety of hen fruit (pow­dered), on hand. Latest reports had Bill still in the throes of indecision. 
Capt. Steve Ronay, professor of English at Notre Dame, on leave, has been assigned to the AAF Central Flying IVaining Command head­quarters at Randolph field, Tex., as chief of the military Information section. Ist Lt. Art Brad­ley, M.A. '27 New Bedford, Mass.. recently was awarded the Bronze Star for meritorious service in direct support of combat operations on the Fifth Army front in Italy. 
Heri) Jonea, former hu^ess manager of ath­letics at Notre Dame, recently promoted to the newly created position of business manager of the University, was tendered'a testimonial din­ner by about 75 of his close friends In late Jan­uary in South Bend. He received a valuable gift and considerable "ribbing" from the diners. S];>eakers included Tom Hidcey» Lt. Frank Leskr. Elmer Layden» president of the National Football league; Paal Bntler and the guest of honor. Jse Donahue and Joe Boland acted as toastmasters. 
192 8 ^®"'* ^' ^°^^^y> 4481 Mac­
Arthur Blvd., Washington, D. C 
From JAM Buckley: 
While in San Francisco recently. I talked to Joe Brannon who Is now lieutenant in the Navy* stationed on Bfore Island. Joe's wife and dau^ter live there with him. He is looking forward to returning to Sears in Sacramento after the war. 
I beard that Hvrjn Anckr, who has been pneticing law in IJOS Angeles, is now in the Armj, but was unable to obtain farther details. I also noted an article in one of the Los Angeles papers that "Art Parisien. now' a little older, and a slt^t bit heavier and with with a ahiny place where there used to be a curly hair, is a swing shift inspector at the AIResearch plant" at Los Angeles. 
I enjoyed visiting the University of Portland whidi gave me the opportunity of seeing several of the priests who were students with us, includ­ing Father Dam» and others who were close to the class of *28 as teachers, including Father Milt-Bcr and Father Makaire. 
Bany Mahoney, lieutenant, U.S.N.R, wrote from a San Francisco FPO recently. Barry has been in the Navy for three years and is now com­mander of troops aboard a ship. After finishing Georgetown Law School in 1939. Barry was in practice In Oisper. Wyo. 

•nle March 15 deadline is made rather easy-for me this time as I have material submitted for the last Issue from Leo Mclntyre which ar­rived while I was away. Leo sent along the fol­lowing news: Ed McKeown of Hassenauer, Mc-Keown * Trussell. 105 West Adams St.. Chicago. also has a Chrysler-Plymouth Agency at 7117 S. Ashland Ave.* Chicago. Ed reports that Howard PhaHa is still in the Navy and now is stationed at Corpus Christi, Texas. Ed reports that as a gob, Howie Is still one of the nation's crack educational, book-selling executives and that since his arrival in the Lone Stair State illiteracy has been sbairply reduced. 
Leo mentioned that he had a letter from our 

genial and understanding rector of Sorin Hall days. Father JaaMs Gallagan. Father mentioned that Jelui fgec and family are still located in . Chicago. He hears from Tom Jones» who has a sueeessful practice in Boise, Idaho. He added that Jadic Chevigny, who lost his mother during the year, is now a captain in the Marines. [Jack was 
killed on Iwo Jinuu See "Deaths"—^Eds.] 
Last fall. Leo met Ed MeCormadc in a Gotham theater. Ed has a position in Gotham, u'riting' advertiang copy. He also met Charley McKinncy and Viace Hdfallr* '27, In Philadelphia. Red Smith, the former W. W. "Buck" Smith, '27 "Dome" editor, who is sports columnist for the "Philadelphia Record." joined them at the Philo­patrean Society Halt. 
Leo now has two potential Notre Damers and two potential St Maryites. Leo recently moved from Bethlehem. Pa., to 3004 Turner St.. Allen­town, where he is a member of the firm of C. W. Laros ft Son, real estate and insurance brokers. He is now president of the East-Penn Notre Dame Alumni Club. 
Thank you. Barry BCahoney and Leo Mclntyre for your contributions, llie deadline for copy for the next "Alumnus" will be May 15. How about those of 3rou 'v^o haven't written in some time giving me a hand by sending along some notes before that date so I will not have to send out an S.O.S. the last minute. 
Father Robert W. Woodward, CS.C, army di^>lain at an Eastern seaboard camp, has been promoted to major. John Rahinson has been made a full commander in the Navy. He Is state direc­tor of adective service in Connecticut. Bob Ham-OtMi was recently appointed purchasing coordina­tor of Pan American World Airways System in N.Y.C. 
Father Mark J. Fitxgcrald, C.S.C of the De­partmrat of Economics. Notre Dame, has recent­ly been appcanted a public panel member for the Chicago Begi<mal War Labor Board. This board has jnriadiction in the states of Illinois, Indiana. Wiseonan, Minnesota. North Dakota and South Dakota. 
One of Ae real N«tre Dame veterans of the Marine Corps is Capt. Gcorce LeppUr, '28, now serrinr with the 6th Marine Division in the Pacific George was home to Cleve­land on a 30-day­leave last falL Backed up against a joncle tree here, the one>time caard looks jast as mcced as he did back in the days when he and Walt Layne were holdinc down one end of 
Capt. Georce Leppic, '28 Sophomore HalL 
A letter from Jack Mullen, N.Y.C, which has some interesting items: "I often meet Jack La­velle on the street, and have had several talks 
•with Charley McKinney. A week or so ago, I was up at the Carstairs ofiice and there I was intro­duced to Joe FrieL who is now an executive of Calvert Distillers. One of my oldest friends, Joe Timlin, not only from Notre Dame but from high school days, is now with the Branham Company here in New York. Branham represents a long list of newspax>ers and radio stations and Joe is in charge of the entire radio operation. Another old crony of Joe's and mine. Bob Trotter, *29, is now a rnnjor. 1 had a letter from him the other day from somewhere in Belgium. Bob is with the Army Engineers. He says that he is well, but busy." 
192 9 Major Joseph P. McNammra, • * 1314 N. Court House RA, Ar­lington, Va. 
This is from Father Joe Barry, CS.C, chaplain on the western front: 
''Christmas morning we had a Mass at 9 o'clock for our troops in the rear. After that. Bob Early, my driver, and Tommy GilHgan, my right hand man ( a Providence, R. I., College boy, by the way) took off for the front again where we jumped* from trench to trench hearing confes­sions and giving Holy Communion. About 5 o'clock we finished that consoling task. After that we gathered about 60 soldiers in an attic where I celebrated another Mass. The boys read the prayers in English. It was beautiful. In spite of the cobwebs hanging from the rafters, and the ammo. boxes for an altar, they could still read aloud: 'I have loved O Lord the beauty of Thy house, and the place where Thy Glory dwelleth-' 
"It might interest you to know that I had the honor of saying* one Mass .in France and another Mass in—let's say another country on the same Christmas Day. Thanks for everything." 
A captain, Charles Colton is AFO, San Fran> Cisco. 
Joe Whalen formerly of Rock Island. III., is general supervisor in the Schroeder Hotels sys­tem in Wisconsin. Minnesota. Michigan and Indiana. Joe's office is at 210 E. Michigan St., Milwaukee. 
IO M Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad 
• '^' ^ St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Prohate Jadce WendcU Lensinr. EvansviUe. Ind.. was one of the speakers at the civic recep­tion for Most Rev. Henry Joseph Grimmelsman, first bishop of Kvansville. 
A story from the "Chicago Daily News" about Capt H M Bfsmihan of the U. S. Marines. '*.,. he was In on the Bougainville fight... for over a year... caught Jap machine-gun bullets in head, hip and back and was hospitalized for ten months.... Tben he contracted malaria..,, To­day he's not only back on his feet as athletic officer at El Toro, Calif., he's playing a rus8«d game of basketball.... Tim did a two-year pro football stretch with the Chicago CanUnals before 
turning to coaching and the Marines. He wears the Purple Heart and Silver Star." 
Douff Daley ^is the new president of the Los Angeles Junior Chamber of Commerce and as­sistant general manager of Aircraft Contuners. Inc. He is the second oldest member of the Junior Chamber in length of participation in the organization. 
1931 
Lt. (jg) Don O'TooIe writes: ".. . As of last Jan. 2, 1 started an advanced course in military government and Japanese language at Stanford University, -where I'm to be for the next four months. Another N.D, grad. Bill McCactkjr. '33, Is also in the school. I've visited a good deal out here in Falo Alto with Frank Dcnnejr, '32, who lives here with his wife, who was Honor Chudleig^ at St. Mary's, and I've also visited wuth TOM DaSr, '32. who has his family of four children in San Mateo. 
"Before coming here I spent three months at a Navy Military Government School at Princeton University. While there we mustered up a dozen or so N.D. men in the school for a reunion. I can't remember who they all were now, but they included Bill McCarthy, '33, Don Lowrie, '30, Walt SchoUn, '30, Dan Casey, '33. Nick Lakats and Jack Clark, '32. 
"I've had a dandy letter from Dcon Sntton, *31, who is in France with the Army's department of psychological warfare. 
"My brother, Paal, '32, is In command of an armed guard crew on an Atlantic ship. Set. Jas­tin, '36, is with the 10th armored forces in France. Lt* Bart, '39, was, as you know, IdUed while lighting with the 4th armored force in France last Nov. 10. Two other O'Tooles who didn't go to N.D.: Lt. Vincent is with the Army in England and Lt. (jg) Patricia is with the Waves at Mare Island, Calif. 
"My brother-in-law. Jack Gcddcs, '32. is now at sea as a lieutenant, jg, with the Navy. Another brother-in-law. Bill Geddes. '40, is with the AAF in Texas." 
Frank Carideo is executive officer for an LSM. After completing 28 months in the Asiatic-Pacific theater of operations, Capt. Charles O'Conmrt a finance officer returned to America in January. 
New addresses: Georce Richter, 86 Cbllege St, Clinton, N. Y.; Lt. (jc) Hohart Shean. Naval Aviation Supply Depot, Norfolk. Va.; Lt. (j() Art McGce. LCS. Fort Emory Det., San IKego 59, Calif.: Capt. Roy BaiUe, AAFEFTC, A-t Max­well Field, Ala.: John Saonden, (inactive list. Navy), vice-president and general manager. Early and Moor, Inc., 139 Blackstone St., Boston. 
On the birthday of their mother, Lt. Frank (Spike) McAdams, Chicago, and his brother were home together for the first Uroe in 25 months-Prank, who was seriously wounded in the Leyte invasion, stayed over for the birthday party and then departed for a Navy hospital for further treatment. His brother, a Navy jg, had just come back from Guam. 
Lt. Hobie Shean, settled in Norfolk. Va.. at 516 Draper Drive, for what he hopes will be quite a while, writes that he saw Jim CalUasw '32, and Dan Hanky, '34, at church. Frank Haa­ericamp, '34, and Roy Hnrray, are with him at the Naval Aviation Supply Depot. 
Lt. J>M> K. CoUia*, 113S Maa. 

1932 
chnter AT*,, Norfoft, Va. 

Fraai JIa CHaa: 
ConsiatiilatiaiM are in order for U Wmi»a« who has been wpaintcd deputy director seaecal of the United Natioiu Kdief and Bdiahilitatioa adadnlstratiai in diarge of opetatiaiis at the Earapean icgknal oflfee. He formerly was mUare director for New York City. 
Lt. (jc) Pad fytmilm -was in reeently and said that anons others he had seen at hoeae vas Jin O'Saaafawtv who is praetidns law in 
- Chieagoi. Paul Is on dotr abomrd a nmdiaat diip in the Atlantie with the Armed Guard. 
Charley Hllwlhemr, who is a field repieacnta­tive for the Red Craea. went into Iwo Jima with the Fifth Marine Dinwm. To say lie was hoy there is pnttins it inildly, aceordins to his ae­eoont of it. 
Lt. Daa Hanby has been ordered to Ounp Sbeltan, Va.. for Armed Guard truninK. fie has bad considerable doty at sea and advance bases, and just finished a tour of doty at Tkeaauie Is­land. He expects to report back to San FVandseo about June I. He told me emphatically that he is not married, as previously reported. 
Also at Oimp Sbelton is LL Fiaak flynn, the not-so-old professor of social work. Frank left the University faculty about two years ago and has been d(»nff social work in Navy penal insti­tutions since then. He and l>an and Daa Cyan made the nucleus for a fine St. Patrick's Day party at the Navy Tard officers* club. 
Lt. Diaay Shay is attadied to a squadron at the Norfolk Air Station but expects to have an­other assignment before%is readies print. Be has been here over a year, and has been in diarce of athletics for his group. 
I reeently received a fine letter from Wmtm 
H. A. Hdatikil. CS-C, who' is the dupUdn aboard an aircraft carrier. Since November they have been attached to the fast carrier tore» In the Padfie and saw plenty of action in the battle of the Philippines. As if the Japs were not enough, they were caught in the tjul of a hurri­cane which- threw up waves high enough to wash a plane off the ffight deck. He said that other than that, plans were running according to sched­ule and he was looking forward to a leave in the States. 
Lt. (]g> AI Wackeiaun, '35. was in Norfolk on .temporary duty recently following his completion of the eomrannieatlons course at Harvard Univer­sity. He was ordered to the Padfie from here. 
Sincere sympathies are extended to Charley Qaicley on the recent death of his sister. 
L t Fraak Haneikamp. '34, brought Lt. Bay Ifanay, '42. over for a visit recently, the latter being planning officer for the Naval Aviation Supply Depot here. Be mentioned a number of ­men from his class as follows: Lt. (Jg) Cae Me-Kenaa is on an escort carrier: Lt. <Jg) BOl Mad­den is on a ho^ital ship: Lt. (]g> Jack Vlaacaae is just back from the European theatre and wait­ing for a new asngnment: Lt. (jg) Lea Lee is on a destroyer; Lt. (jg) MA Grant is on an aircraft carrier: L t (jg) Jae Paataaack has re­cently returned frtnn the Padfie and Is in a naval hospital; Lt Ed Helcr is hack from Eng­land and is organising a new patrol homh^ crew. Murray has recently returned fnoi two years' duty in the Padfie. 
Bemie Helta is a foreman "with the Ctoiegie­niinols Steel Corp.. Chicago^ Stationed at the Naval Supply Depot. Oakland. CaSit. Gertr Hiigii is a lieutenant seuor grade. Fret. Vnak OValey gave a scries of lectures at the Aqniaas Library and Book Shop. -South Bend, on the gen­eral subject "Literature During the War." 
From Kick Raffinc: 
"Hie only things of interest I know, include Neil Ebert, *33, being promoted to lieutenant, senior ^rade, and presently home on 30-day leave after a year in the Bawaiian I$lands. Jim Bnike, '33, is now in service in the Hawaiian Islands. He ^\'as home in December, and just missed seeing his new-born son, bom after returning. Jim was also recently promoted to lieutenant, senior grade. 
"John Baltes, '39» in the SeaBees. was recently promoted to lieutenant, jg. John is located on Guam, doing construction work. Paul Callaghan* *33, has been for the past year located in Alaska in the Army. Ctifford Brown. '37, is in the Army with the M.P.'s at Newfoundland. 
193 3 ^*' '^^^^^ Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave., Cbicago, III. 
V-Mail from Father Mmarice Powers, C.S.C., an Army chaplain: 
".. . I had a hasty crossing on an LST from England. Just before leaving I called on the head chaplain of the U.K. Base in London. Father Walsh of Portland, Ore-, a close friend of all Kotre Dame men in Portland. I met Fr. Ed Fitz-Eetmld. C.S.C., '30, of Notre Dame. He told me of Father Vince Mooney who is now in France. I made a hasty passage in France in the mud of Normandy, and while there met Dan Dagan. '40 or '-11. He brought viWd memories of Notre Dame into play vnth his fund of stories about Joe De-Franco, BertcUi and the others with whom he Ecrimmaged. .. . In my own unit Lt. Neil Geary, of Fltchburg, Mass-, is doing a mar\-elIou5 job as liaison officer between our regiment and adjacent diWsions. A Bfajor McCjA-thy, who did some fine boxing and football playing at Notre Dame back in 1926 and *27, is commander of a battalion and doing excellent work. . . . The men really like him .. . he never asks them to perform a task or da an>'thing that he would not do first him^lf. 
"I, myself am busy running up and down the Siegfried Line. We hai'e the very front lines as we are reconnaissance spearheads of the armored division, and that means that we are often behind the kraut lines, or at least within 50 or 200 yards from them all the. tim& I am right in the heart of the Siegfried . . . li\'ing now in an evacuated house of some German civilian .. . all windows are shattered from artillery concussion, most roads are mined and quite wrecked, though fixed up by hard-working engineers attached to my unit. 
"I say Mass and bear confessions within the shadows of jerry guns, only they do not know I am within good machine gun range . . . say it in cellars by candle, in ruined churches of our faith, in back hidden rooms of homes . . . and the boys all kneeling, with a missal in one hand and guns in the other . . . always that omnipresent gun except when they come up for Holy Communion. .. . I wish you could see 300 to 600 soldiers at Mass . . . one ear cocked for enemy fire or air Luftwaffe assaults, the other concentrated on the missal . . . gun in hand, grenades in each pocket, gas-masks fixed .. . it is a rare sight. Hope you informed the column that a few prayers for the safety of the men would be swell . . . we've had many deaths." 
Lt, Joe McCabe's letter from Washington, D. C. contained some interesting items: 
"Joe Dodtman, lieutenant. USNR. of Baltimore and the class of '32, is and has been stationed here in BuShips since way back. Lt. BUI Kene­fidc '32, is here with BuYards and Docks. Lt. Spike Adams, wounded at leyte, is undergoing treatment at the National Naval Hospital. Have­n't seen him but Fattier Barke, CS-C , '32, chap­lain at the hospital, says he tried to locate him and the nurse said she wished Father Burke would speak to him—he was always up visiting someone and they couldn't keep him in bed. So I puess Spike's congeniality hasn't lean dampened any—probably lining up votes for something or someone! Lt. Don Mcintosh is also in Wash­ington." 
Cpl. Ted Bttczynrid has graduated from a course in the background of this war and the nature of our enemies, and will take this infor­mation to American troops overseas, according to a report from Lexington. Va. S/Set. Jim FarrcU. Green Bay, "Wis., stayed in the Army four dayH after he could have collected his discharge to take a job in essential industry! A draftsman. and a stubborn Irishman. Jim stayed on at the Mississippi Ordnance Plant. Flora, Miss., because he wanted to finish a job he's started—a master map of the post, which is the nation's second largest center for the training of Ordnance troops. Jim is now doing drafting for the Latham 
B. Smith Shipyards, Sturgeon Bay, Wis. 
Lt. (Bg) Art Lavery is stationed in Inyokem, Calif. Ed Stepban is now residing in Evanston, III., at 1019 Michigan Av e 
103 4 J<»^pl^ R' Glennon, Jr., Brook Maner, Pleasantville, N. Y. 
From Joe Glenncn: 
Rev. James Vincent Moscow was ordained to the priesthood on Saturday. Feb. 24 at St. Mary's Seminary. Mundelein. 111., and sang his first sol­emn Mass in Our Lady of Grace Church, Chica­go, on the following day. He is a priest of the Chicago archdiocese. The class of '34 sends best wishes to its senior president and one of its most popular members. 
Congratulations to Hugh Devore. We know that the 1945 edition of the Fighting Irish will be in capable hands. A more earnest and diligent coach with the necessary know-how could not be found. 
Joe Harringan has received his third ration book, issued to Kathleen Marie on Jan. 31. Ens. Ray Waters reports from the high seas as follows: "I'm not free to say where I am, but I'm a good distance from *F.P.O-, New Vork.* I left the states in December after spending almost a full year in the Navy's many schools. While at the Har\-ard communications school last sum­mer I saw Lt. (ic) Rose Leonard* Ens. Al O'Heam and Lt. (jg) Jack Meister. 
"\Mien I last heard of Russ he was headed for the Pacific Don't know where Al went I left comm, school before Mejster did. but we found ourselves on the same ship on the way over. He's in the same area. Had cur CSiristmas and New Year's in the middle of the Atlantic to the tune of Coca Colas. I haven't seen him since I found my ship. It's quite an experience—trying to find a ship-I traveled by ship, truck, jeep, train, plane, motorcycle—everything but a goatcart, be­fore I caught 4ip to it­
"I hear from Lt. Andy Anth. XJSXR, occasion­ally. He was stationed in Miami when I last heard from him." 
John McShane, Chicago, wrote that Sgt. Ben McShane* *31, was wounded in the battle of Cher­bourg, receiving the Purple Heart. Ben is now back in action. The other McShane, Capt. JoKph, was also wounded, and awarded the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star in the action on Brest penin­sula, but is also back in the fighting. 
A V-mail from Capt. Bill HcCormick reads: "I am military governor for the parts of Germany occupied by my regiment. So far we have fought in five continental countries and are at present once again on German soil. There is another N.D. man here. Capt. Scfaamel of the class of '35." 
Appointment to the responsible job of acting resident inspector of the Office of Inspector of Naval material was accorded Ralph Else in Au­burn, N. Y. Ralph writes that he has a swell little daughter, now 10 months old. 
Georce Belting writes from S t Thomas Semi­nary, Denver, that May 26 will be the day of his ordination in the Cleveland Cathedral. His first solemn high Mass, with attending social func­tions, will follow the next day, also in Cleveland. 
Back home recently after a six-month trip on a brand-new Liberty ship was Carl Zimmerer, Ijouisville. Carl has been in the Merchant Ma­rine for more than a year and has traveled, far and wide, visiting such places as the Persian Gulf; Durban, South Africa; Aden, Arabia; Alexandria, Egypt; and Cuba. 
Maj. FVank Linton, Chicago, has reported for duty with the Air Technical Service Command, Wri^t Field, O. 
Alike Weidi is with Bell Bomber, Atlanta. Ga.. doing work in the lab. Lt. Bill McCarthy is see­ing du ^ at Stanford University, Stanford, Calif. Lt. in) Tom Stritdt. N.D. English prof on leave, is the executive officer of the V-12 unit at Lawrence College. Appleton, Wis. Tom had exten­sive amphibious service overseas. Ed Graham is with the FBI in AVashington, D.C. Lt, Joe CUric is in Monterey, Calif., and Lt. (jg) Kick Lukats has moved to the naval training school in HoHy­wood, Fla.. from the V-12 unit at the University of California. 
Lt. Bob Cahill arrived home in February on a so-day leave. Bob had been on duty for 18 months with naval communications in the Pacific. He re­ported in late March to his new station at Cherry Point. N. C. 
Fstkcr Bernard E. Shanley visited the campus on Feb. 8 on his way to Philadelphia to visit his family. Father Shanley's headquarters are in Strool, S. D.. but actually his parish includes three missions and covers about 2.500 square miles. Strool is 65 miles from a railroad, has no electricity, and only 30 people. Father has been there for five years, since his ordination. He at­tended Our Lady of the Angels Seminar/, Niag­ara. N. Y. 
A V-mai! from Cpl. John Hagan, in France, tells much of Notre Dame men: "As you can see, I'm now working for Sam. Have been for a little more than a year. Spent most of that time at Camp Butner, N. C., with two months in Fort Sam Houston, Tex. At Butner. I met a few fellows .from N. D. Lt. Ed DeBartolo was there. S|Sct. Mort Goodman, Law. '30, was a court-martial expert in the headquarters above us. Had quite a few dealings with him—^but not as the accused. Ed Frank, *31. was there but moved quite some time ago. 1st Lt. Joe Gniltinan was there—and is here. He's from '41 and is adjutant in an outfit similar to ours. 
"I was in Youngstown on furlough over the holidays and saw Peg and Charlie Cashwa quite often. They are official guardians of my Marie— sister of Jim Collcran. *35, and Loa, '42 (almost) —^in my absence. Had a dandy session at Charlie's with Storekeeper 2/c Gabe Moran, '32. Lt. (jc) Bad Bernard and Gcorce Kelly. '28. present. Gabe was in on leave from Newfoundland and Bud was just back frcHn the South Pacific on his way to an as»gnment in Brooklyn. Gabe. Charlie and George talked Bud and me into joining the Chesterton Club, but they'll be sorry for that-Cawt Eiee, '28. and I are brothers-in-law *once removed.' We married sisters." 
The Holman brothers, Ed, '34, and Chester, '40, are both in the Navy, both lieutenants, and both have FPO's out of San Francisco. 

193 5 P'*"'''"* C- Hochreiter, 2118 I T* » Treasure St., New Orleans, L«. York City. 
Capt. Charles O'Connor is stationed at Stin-Eon Field, San Antonio. Tex. TjStU Jim Kelly is APO, N.Y.C. Ditto for Pfc. Walt Hatna. Ens. Nick Vairo is/was attending the Naval Supply Corps School at Harvard. His wife, Dorothy, has taken over his job as county clerk in Houghton, Mich. 
Lt. Charles Fehr is missioner-officer on board his ship in the Pacific. JIaving no chaplain. Char­lie and his shipmates conduct what services are possible, epecially on Sundays, -when the purser of the ship and Charlie take turns in givins the sermon. Charlie planned to say the Stations each Friday during Lent 
193 6 Joseph F. Mansfield, 34 Fifth 
• ''" ' St., Pelham, N. Y. 
From Jc»e Mansfield: The mail has been much better than usual late­ly and we have received several letters from scattered points. Then, too, several of the boys have been in New York at one time or another and have phoned us to say hello. John Mormn surprised us by dropping in one Une day last month, fresh from a long cruise that took him to various Mediterranean, and Central and South American ports. John is skipper of an Armed Guard crew on a merchantman. "While he was in this port he called at our houses and regaled us with tales—some of them on the tall side, in keeping with sea-faring traditions—of high adventure. One evening we got together with Jerry Gillespie and hashed over old times. Jerry's navy duties are similar to those of Moran's, he having made a few trips into southern waters. Mrs. Gillespie presented Jerry with a beautiful daughter. Jerry shipped out four weeks before the big event, and hasn't yet seen the new addition. We received a card from Moran recently which was mailed from a Central American port-Tom Proctor is holding down a very responsible position with the Ballard Aircraft Co., here in New York and has time to call once in a while. Tom was admitted to the New York Bar this week. 
Had a long letter from John Desmond who is stationed in England. John is living in "Wimpole Street a few doors from the old Barrett address —very lit'ry says he. 
Baddy Goldman was discharged from the Army two months back and came in to see us. He is working at Station KTEM in Temple. Texas, and reports that his duties embrace a wide range of activities. Bud was stationed in Temple when he was wearing a uniform, and his warm personal­ity won him a host of friends there; hence the offer of a job when he was discharged. 
We received a letter from Max Marek. chief specialist, USNR, from San Francisco, where he is working as an athletic instructor. Max has re­cently written a book on boxing which bears en­dorsement of Gene Tunney. Spike Webb and a host of top names in the boxing game. Let's hope it's a big seller! 
We'll pass along a letter from Andy HcUmnth. Camp Pinedale, Fresno, Calif., with thanks to him. ... 
"My doings in the past 28 months have been very much like many others in the class. Enlisted in the Army in May, 1942. Out of OCS with a commission in the Signal Corps in November, 1942. and since have been to four different camps just as far apart as they could he and still in this country. Recently was transferred to the Air Corps but still doing communications work­
"Ted Prekowitz. '36, has been in my outfit for about three months now. Remember Ted is a South Bend boy—took law at N.D., graduating in *39. Since he lived so close to school he had many a story to tell. 
**It may be a little early and possibly too opti­mistic but I am looking forward to seeing many of the fellows at our ten-year reunion in '46." 
Another letter came this way from our old friend, Andy Hufnacel in Southern England: 
"I am no longer with the antiaircraft, having been transferred to the infantry last June. I left my brigade at Camp Stewart, Ga., with a whole battery of AA men and joined the infantry at Fort Bragg. N. C. on June 1. I became the in­telligence sergeant for the first battalion and. in that capacity, worked with 1st Li. Bill NoKent, S-2. a Notre Dame grad (about 1940, I think). Also in the same battalion was Ist Lt. Bill hang, who had charge of the ammunition and pioneer platoon. He also was a N.D. man. having grad­uated with Lt. Nugent. Two of the finest guys I've ever known, they'd been buddies in college and candidates for the football team. They're a couple of hot apples, and we always had a lot of fun together. 
"In October our outfit went to France where we saw plenty of action. It was rough going, but between the French, who supplied us with plenty of wine, and the antics of BUI Nnccnt^ who al­ways retained his sense of humor, no matter how serious or desperate the situation, I found much to laugh at and keep my morale high. In one town, which we had just liberated, one evening a couple of nuns grabbed Bill Nugent and me and invited us into their convent. There they gaily kept our wine glasses full while disclosing as much military information as they could. It's incidents like that which I'll never forget and which kept our campaign from being a complete horror. 
"On the evening of Nov. 29 I was rudely com­pelled to leave my regiment and make haste to the rear. While Lt. Nugent and I were on patrol that night, some inconsiderate Huns almost lobbed a mortar shell on top of my head, and the shraiH nel kind of played hell with me. tearing into my left shoulder, the top of my scalp, the back of my neck, and the back of my thigh. The only really serious damage I suffered, though, was to the shoulder, and I'll never again have complete motion in my left arm. 
"Since Nov. 29 I've been in various hospitals in France and England, but I don't expect to be hospitalized much longer. Within three weeks or so I'll be discharged and assigned to limited serv­ice of some kind. 
"And that's the story of the life and hard times of Sgt. Hnfnagel in the ETO. I've been a lucky man, and I feel that most of my good fortune is the result of faith and prayer." 
Speaking for the whole class, Andy, I wish you the best for a speedy and complete recovery. Our prayers include you daily-
Ralph Cardinal sent us a card showing a change of address. He has an APO out of N.Y.C. Drop a card this way when you get a chance and we'll pass it along. 
Ten enlisted men of the Office of the Chief of Transportation recently, ETO. %vere commissioned second lieutenants by command of General Eisen­hower. Among the ten was Joe Ratigan. Borden-town. N. J., who as master sergeant held the position of chief of civilian personnel in the Of­fice of the Chief of Transportation. Joe retains this position. 
Shelby Romers. Beaumont, Tex., has been pro­moted to first lieutenant in the AAF in the Cen­tral Pacific, where he is assistant adjutant gen­eral of the Sixth Air Service Area Command. Bob Haire, '30, was wounded and taken to a New Guinea hospital where he was attended by Dr. Dick 3IcClaskey. Bob's sister and Dick's sister were classmates at St. Mary's. 
In the Feb. 16 "Yank," there was notice of Wayne BGHacr** honorary discharge from the service. Of the Nartaa family, Jahn (a recent let­ter-writer) is an assatant chemist at Delco. Rochester, K. Y.» and is the happy father of two boys and a new baby girl; LL Cfcaifcy* '39, was at Camp Folk, La.; Set. Frank, '32, is stationed at the Aberdeen Proving Groonds, Hd. 
Heniy Stamtm^ now serving as a base surgeon with the 11th air force in the Aleutian Islands, has been advanced to captain. He has served nine months in the Aleutians and in Alaska. 
193 7 Frank J. ReUIy, MacNair-Dor­
land Co.. 254 W. 31«t St, New 
York City 

From Frank KciQy: Before taking a look at the month's mail. I have a story. 'Die other day while disensang one thing and another with my boss we got to dis­cussing names and how they sometimes fool yoo. To illustrate the point he mentioned n^g^bors of his. the Roggensteins. He went on to tell how his wife had gotten some special cheese for Mrs. Roggenstein*s son, who was a lieutenant with a mortar combat crew serving in France. I bri^t­ened up: "you mean CksA Roffgenstoa who went to Notre Dame and graduated in 1937 with me?" I asked "That's right, I'd forgotten he went to Notre Dame," says Mr. MacNair. Sure enough. Oiarles Gerard "Chnck" Roggensteiij of Rockville Centre. Long Island, it was. I don't think the ink was dry on the "Alum­nus" when Cy Strekei's wife, Mrs. Jean Mc­Laughlin Stroker. bounced the following letter in to me: '*The February copy of the Notre Dame 'Alumnus' came and I always enjoy reading it before sending it on to my husband, ^on^ t yoa might be interested in news of him. . . ; [D«cid­edlyj Cy is skipper on an LCI and on duty in the Pacific He left Norfolk in Hay, after ^x months* training in amphibioas warfare. Prior to this he spent over 13 months' duty in Iceland. (And now for the big news!) Our first child, Lynn Marie, arrived Jan. 20, 1945. and Daddy is most amdons to see her." Mrs. Stroker's letter was sent from 206 N. Pinehurst, Salidrary, Md. 
From the other end of the country, and maybe by this time the world, comes a very welcome let* ter from Bab BIcCIaia, '37. the Navy and Peru, Ind. Bob writes: "Received my copy of the 'Ahun­nus' today an~d was glad to hear that you had taken up where *Scoop' Foky had left off. Have been with this Navy address since last July; prior to that, had a FPO address on the East coast- Haven't had the good luck of meeting any of the Notre Dame men recently. I heard there are plenty of them knocking around Uncle Sam's Navy on the West Coast but, so far, haven't crossed their paths. Occasionally I get into port but of late we have been gone most of the time. Hope Jastin McCann gets a good assignment. Was surprised to hear Joe Race was studying for the priesthood and now has been ordained—^here is wishing luck to Joe. What is the story of your sidekick. Racky Riley, of the Youngstown, O., newspaper fame? [Hadn't you heard. Bob, or does the Navy consider such infuTnation confidential: Ihe St. Louis Browns, bless 'em. finally succeeded in keeping the New York Yankees from winning-their "Jillionth" straight pennant? When Dick heard the news. I understand he was last seen heading for the. hills mumbiins: somethins about "Ruppert Rifles beinE sliot" in his beard. How aboat it Dick, — why not write and tell me what you're up to so I can pass along the word to Bob and all the other fellows from the class of '371] Bead where Zcke Cackley, another of HMtn­C.«»y's erstwhile newshounds, is shooting Ger­mans instead of rabbits in "them thar hills 1" 
I see by the "New York Alumnns" that Bin Kirk, of our class, who is active in the New 
York N.D. club, was chosen as a nominator by general membership vote at a recent meeting of the New York group. 
In the February issue of the "Alumnus," I 
mentioned that Father Joe English had told me 
Boh Kdly of oar class was a Franciscan. Sure 
enough, after several calls at the monastery, 
which is about a block from my office, I found 
Father Cronan Francis Kelly. O.F.KI., bron-n 
robes, white cincture, sandals and all. I spent a 
very pleasant half hour with Bob and one of the 
other young Franciscan priests one evening be­
fore going to a Catholic Institute of the Press 
meeting. Bob hasn't changed a great de^I. his dry 
wit making -the course well under par (trans­
lated, that obscurity comes out to mean good.) 
About a week later Bob, George Feeley, demon 
New York sales representative of Star Brass Mfg. 
Company and large Orange. N. J., manufacturer, 
and I had lunch together. Bob Kelly reported that 
he had married Bill Tanney, of '37, some time 
before. George told of seeing George Lane, for­
merly of the New York County district attorney's 
office and now connected with **Wild Bill" Dono­
van's Wall Street law firm. George told us BUI 
Davis, the "Collier's Kid," was married and 
doing very nicely in the steel business in Phila­
delphia. I think Bill tosses hot ingots around .to 
keep in shape, from the way George tells it-
George, in case you don't know it. is the proud 
papa of three fine kiddies and the husband of a 
gal who broke her leg when George and she were 
skiing in Vermont recently. "Peach" is recover­
ing nicely now, thanks, George reports. 
Another of those *37 guys who get out of sight Quickly if you don't keep your eye glued tightly on them is Arthnr W. Shmnghnessy. Art. accord­ing to his father, is a yeoman third class in the Navy. He is on an auxiliary patrol vessel and since last May when he joined the Navj-, has been around the world. About a month ago, I believe. Art was in Los Angeles. He enlisted in the Army originally as a voluntary officer candidate, later quali^ing for OCS in artillerj*. 'When this course was closed down, he was mustered out of the Army and joined the Na\'y. Going back still far­ther. Art was married in October. 1941. to Miss Jean Wilson, of Atlanta, where they make their home. I^e Shaughnessys have one child. Carolyn, who w^ill be a year old on April 10. 
When you speak of Art Shaughnessy, you naturally think of Ben Scherer, and when you think of Ben Scherer, you naturally think of Heth Kenyon. So, will Herb Kenyon plesse have the kindness to let us know where he is and what he is doing ? Ben Scherer -now having Art Shaughnessy's address, ought to get in touch with him. 
I've been able to ferret out a little more infor­mation about Jade Tagney, who is an ensign in the Navy. Jack, according to the uncle of Jack Firth, also '37, was in this countr>' up until a year ago. He is married to a girl from St. Mary's and was living in Baltimore for a while. Jack Firth is a first lieutenant in the Marines and has been in the Pacific for about a year. He is the father of two girls, one 17 months old. the other five months old. His wife. Margaret Doran Firth, is living in Brooklyn with the children. Jack's -uncle is going to look up some later and more detailed information on Tagney and also Joe Loftiu and some of the other Brooklyn boys. 
Here's a reply to Bob McCIain's query about Fd Hoyt. Ed has been in the Army four years, liis brother Jack tells me, and in that time has ser\-ed in every rank from private to first lieu­tenant, which he now is. He has just received four decorations for his part in the amphibious operations in the Philippines campaign. Ed is a first lieutenant in the Signal Corps, and has been that for about a year. Without wishing to put the "whammy" on him, it appears likely that he will be advanced to the rank of captaincy shortly. He 
was in Hawaii for about three of his four senrice years, and was on his way to Pearl Harbor, shortly before the Japs made their attack on Dec­
7. The boat on which he was travelling turned around and came back to the U.S., and Eddie later went back to Hawaii, where he was sta­tioned for about a year and a half before being sent back to OCS in the States. He is married to Huth Cronin Hoyt, of New York. In the next issue I'll supply a picture of Ed along nvith de­tails on his four citations. 
Lt. Ed Fischer, who was the first officer to ride the full length of the Ledo-Burma road, has been assigned to write the history of the northern com­bat area command in the Burma campaign. Ed reached Kunming, China, a day ahead of the first convoy of 300 men and 113 vehicles to use the 
2ND LIEUT. FRANK R. HUISKING, '37 
2nd Lt. Frank R. Huisking, '37, Hun­tington, L.L, N. Y., member of a widely known "Notre Dame family," was killed in Italy a year ago, on April 18, 1944. Secretary of the Conti Products Corp., Brooklyn, Frank enlisted in the AA F in 1942, and was a pilot. Posthumously, he was awarded the Army Flying Medal. Frank's four brothers are also Notre Dame alumni. 
road. Not a man or a vehicle was lost en route, although the convoy met with Jap artillery fire and the annoyance of snipers. 
Sare Lanzafame is the clinical director at Mis­souri State Hospital No. 4. Farmington, Mo. 
Cy Stroker made a double check-in. In his let^ ter of Feb. 18, Dooleyward. Cy wrote: "The re­cent capture of Santo Tomas prison camp in Luzon recalls the name of Don Hanning, '37. who was last reported interned there. Don, as you know, was captured by the Japs in the early stages of the war, and I hope he has now re­gained his freedom. 
"Other news of men in the class of M7 should certainly include the recent marriage to Miss Frances Bergin in Worcester, Mass., of Joe Crot­ty. . . . I also hear occasionally from Fatker Joe English of the Maryknoll order, Jim Kiifcy and Bob Weaver, both of the FBI, in New Jer­sey and Baltimore, respectively, and the ubiqui­tous Jim Ma<J>evitt. 
".. . I have met Vince Hartnett, Joe WaMrm, '36, and Bill Moss, *36. all of whom are lieuten­ants in the Navy and doing fine jobs . . . h(^>e that we shall hear mote of the travels of my old 'Scholastic* chief. Paul Foley, Detroit's ambassa­iJor to Turkey. If Paul, in his new location, gives out with the same oriental swing that we used to display in our jam sessions in the old 'Scholas­tic* office, he should go far in cementing our in­ternational relations in the Near East.** 
In Iceland for some time, previous to Novem­ber. 1943, Cy spent many hours there with Father Ed Fitzgerald, CS-C , Army chaplain. 
"I used to mar\'el." Cy says, "at Father Fitz*s continual good humor in that otherwise desolate country, and his perseverance in looking after the spiritual welfare of the Catholic boys, in ,the face of all kinds of geographical and climatic obstacles, was a real manifestation of the N.D. spirit." Dick Albert* '40, succeeded Cy in Iceland. On August 1943, at Mass in Westminster Cathedral in Lon­don. Cy sat right next to Lt. Jim Sherry, *3G. 
Two former Notre Dame men, Capt. Mitchell TacUey. A.B., '34, LL.B., '37, and T/Sgt. Ralph Cardinal, met recently for the first time in almost three years in a small resort town on the fringe of the Vosges mountains in France. Mike heads and press department of the Sixth Army group and Ralph is a member of the 25th Tank Bat­talion, 14th armored division. Both are residents of Malone. N. Y., and have been close friends since childhood. 
As first lieutenant of an infantry outfit. Lt. Bill Shakespeare found himself and some of his men in a tough spot, where the going -was ex­tremely rugged. By a brilliant maneuver, and at great personal risk to himself. Bill again proved to be an All-American. In the hand-to­hand battle that ensued. Bill captured five Nazi prisoners single-handed, including a captain and a lieutenant and wiped out the dinger that had threatened the men and himself at the moment. For his heroism, he was awarded the Bronze Star and received a spot promotion to first lieutenant. 
The man responsible for the screen script of "fighting Lady." 20th Century-Fox*s thrilling Naval epic of a flat-top and crew's valiant stand in the South Pacific is a '37 man from Notre Dame, Gene Linr> Gene has also written two prison-escape thrillers. "Roger Tuohy, Gangster" and "Within These Walls.** and is considered to be one of the 20th Century-Fox top -writers, signed on a long-term contract. He and his wife, the former Betty Coston of S t Mary's, have two sons. 
193 8 Harold A. Williams, 4323 Mar­blehall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
From Hal Williams: The stack of mail for this issue is unusually thin. If you think it is your fault, well, kick through with a letter, or at least a postal card. First of all. here is the announcement of the marriage of Miss Rose Gertrude Gallagher and John Karl Schemmer. not a lieutenant (jg) in the USNR. The marriage took place in Milwau­kee on Dec 30. Congratulations. John, and how about a line when you have time. Now a swell letter from Mrs. Charles M. Galla-Cher, sister of Joe Corcoran, and Mildred to the boys who made the Army game every year. She writes, "Chick left these shores on Sept 28, 1944, and is now in Germany. He's in the Third Army with a field artillery observation battalion and still a second lieutenant We both missed seeing the Army game in N. Y.. the first we've missed since '38. Chick was like a child at having to miss i t I saw him just before he left and* also saw the Norrises: 'Shorty' came to Boston for the Dartmouth game. Now, my other darling, that handsome brother of mine. He decided to take a fling at Navy flying so he is now a pilot and full lieutenant He's due to be a lieutenant 

commander soon. Joe is now in Seattle and ex­pects to so oat soon. His wife is with liim; on Feb. 16 they celebrated their second anniversary. One of Chick's friends met John McCarron in the Pacific recently; John is a Marine officer." 
nianks, Mildied, for writing. Hope to see you. Chick and Joe next year at the Army game, along with the other fellows and girls. 
Capt. Jack Cleaiy, writing from Belgium, says: "Another letter and another country. Since the last report I have travelled in Luxembourg. Ger­manyt and France. . . . I'm sorry I missed the Army game, but my wife did make it and saw a few of the fellows. . . . Has anyone heard from Slmin and SUelda?" 
Jack tells about his experiences and his visit to Paris but we have to skip that because of space restrictions. 
Ed Bartnctt writes, "I'm now in France and have been since early last July. I was with vari­ous divisions through the Normandy and Brittany campaigns, and life was very exciting for five months. Now leading a somewhat comfortable life. I've been to Paris several times and, of course, it's terrific. I have 'run into scores of 
N.D. men, but none of. them from our class." 
Iliat's all except that Jack Hontenrcde, back from overseas and now stationed at Fort George 
G. Heade. is .living in Baltimore, a few blocks from my house. He's recently married. I'll sub­mit a fuller report on him in the next issue after I get to talk to him—he's coming over next week. 
I.ct's have some letters, fellows! 
A promotion notice and a change of address came through for Lt. <jg) Charles Brown, FPO, 
N.Y.C. Other changes include those of Tom Radi­gan. c/o Assistant Industrial Manager, Ferry Bldg., San Francisco, and Haj. Joe Mehring, Ma­rine Corps, Washington, D. C. 
Lt. (jg> Don Hickey has returned to this coun­try following his tour of duty as commanding officer of an LST in the European theater of war. He is (or was) in Washington, D. C. Lt. CoL Charlie Caasidy, Denver, has been appointed com­manding officer of a veteran B-25 Mitchell bomb group in the Mediterranean theater of operations. Charlie wears the DFC and the Air Medal with clusters. 
An interesting paragraph from Riggie Di Bri­enza's pleasant letter sent to the Alumni Office. (Riggie is a lieutenant, junior grade, c/o FPO. San Francisco). ". . . My recent travels have brought me to New Guinea, and thus far I've come across Vincent Gorman, '35, also a medical officer with duty aboard an LST. Some time ago, I also met Jim O'DonncIt '38, who is doing a swell job with the Army outfit. I have met many fine chaplains, all friends of Notre Dame, and our frequent get-togethers have been most pleasant." 
A release from the Navy Department tells the story of LST 359 which took part in five inva­sions in Africa and Europe, making 23 trips to Anzio. all under fire, and went down in the At­lantic, the victim of the enemy, as it was being towed back to America for repairs. Two of the crew were killed and 16 wounded in the sinking. Skipper of the ship was Lt. Chris Masterson, Summit, N. J., who was attached to the 359 from the time she first crossed the Atlantic until her end. 
Lt. Joe Stmad was placed in command of the new 600-ton cargo vessel YP-623. Joe's wife, Julia, of Chicago, christened the new freight transport, which will ply between the islands of the Pacific theater. 
TySgt. George Johnson flew 3S missions as radio operator-mechanic and gunner on a B-17 Flying Fortress heavy bomber in the ETO for which be was awarded the DFC, the Air Medal and a Dis­tinguished Unit Citation. George, whose wife re­sides in Taylorville, 111., awaited reasagninent at the AAF Redistribution Station, Miami Bead, in February. 
Ckicf Paal Kiadi. Philadelphia, who is a wounded veteran of four major engagements with the Navy in 21 months in the Pacifie, began a 30­day leave at the end of January. 
Bin Tanney, Coming. N. Y.. has been promoted to the rank of first lieutenant at Fort Hancock. 
N. J. Bill is one of the youngest officers ever to be elevated to the assignment of post adjutant at that camp. 
—Official D. S. Navy Photo 
LT. GEORGE K. PETMTZ, ex. '38 

Lt. George K. Pctritz. USNR. ex tS, kratker of Lt. Joseph S. Petritz, USNR, '32, wa« rcscaMl by the American Seventh Fket from tke PUUp­pines on Jan. 27, 1945. after more tluut two year* as a Japanese prisoner. In an interview at the Navy Department. Washington. D.C., an Fek. 22 George told the story of a Japanese "Voyage af Death" in which an estimated 800 Aascricaas saf­focated in the holds of a Japanese transport. 
George entered the Navy in Anguat, 1940, and was sent to the Asiatic Station in Hay, 1941. He was attached to tlie Inshore Patrol at Cavite and served in this general area antil his captare by the Japanese when Corregidor fell on BCay C, 1942. During this time he was Ceaimandiag Offi­cer of patrol craft, including the USS YP 97 and the "Fisheries Two," and for action against tlw enemy from Dec., 1941 to March 7, 1942; and from April 19 to April 28, 1942, was awarded the Navy Cross. 
After his capture at Corregidor Lieat. Petritz was taken to the mainland to Cabataan Priaaa Camp No. 1, where he stayed for two days and to a prisoner of war camp In Central Lazoie^ the one known as Cabataan, or Camp Na. 3. He pointed oat that he was not on the natariaaa "Death March," nor were any af the ather Americans captared on Corregidor. 
There were 1,600 Americans In this groap. and the trip to Cabataan, he said, was an the whale hamane. 
"We remained mostly at this camp—thaagh at times were assigned to others—and finally ia October of 1944 we were taken to BiBbad Priaaa in Blanila for shipment, evidently, to Japan. Oa December 13, the 1,600 of as were MiaKlwd through Manila to the pier and placed abaard a Japanese transport. There were Japanese esr­
iUau flaod akaaid. laa Ifcafa ukr «• • 
wa wen (alas ta Jai 
Ike tiaavaet inmlii ap UM Wtat GaHt a< 
airi Dattk. ciaauasd lirta * a hriliL -Iho a va n 
4M ia aatk tt Urn *n Umii hMa.' «• 
-mml. I M ia aMihar. I waa ki 
won akaM the riaa af a 

MOr laiia 
Ugh. Wa caalMt bnatha wUhaat •ofav a» the 
hMtr ta Iki deck. Jijawia gurda 1—i at 4i« 
ladder wMi liiles ani aiaH aad dM-fln lata 
aa what wc tried ta appiaatk it. 
Wilk a grin snOe. Gaaita aail liwn waa mm ather aray Ihejr caoU hnatfw hy aaon a( then dying m athcn caald ha n the Kltia air Ot n waft "AM laan af then did «• tarty M* af thsn hat tlM icat of aa wen taa weak ta Ift then aat af tke kaH, area it «ka Ja» gaaid kad allawcd aa ta da it." 
By Dec 14, witk Ika dead pOac • • dead ia the giaiMMi ksH^ Aanticaa baaOcn alliilid tka tiaaspait. Ikea atktr biMahcn cane. Ika wUp kcadcd far beach, aad absat I N yards aat it sank, ia deep water. 
•Of H kada't bcea far that banUag." Ciiigs said deHbentdy. "faly N perccat at Asn Ancricaas weald hava dkd. iaitead af abaat half af theai.... hma n then waa aa chaan far aaytUag hat dealk fai tkaw kalia. aad tkcn waa aa chaaee af gettiag aat af then aak n aanetUag happeaed ta the ddp." 
As the Anericaaa wka had aat died hegaa cHadiac aat af the siaUag sUp. alaag witk Ike Japaaen, tke Jap gaaida hegaa Iriag at llttm, "aat at taadin. hat appanatly ia aa cffatt ta lauiy then ta tin beach, when a Japaaen gar­liiaa waa waitiag ta aein tken again." Ha dida't kaaw wktiher aay af the Anericaaa wen kilkd by tUa In . He haew aaly ttat he aad aae ather Aanricaa. aa Amy caUatcd laaa, wen able ta escape, aad that aa aae ebe was. 
"After I nadMd Ike beack." ke w«t aa, "I fen ia wilk a baad af PUBppiae gaeniBaau aad far six waAs Ocy taak can af ne. h fact, I caa say tkat I awe ny Bfe ta tken n Aat I ewe it ta tke fact tkat Anwricaast ia 4t yean af deaUaga witk tka FIBpiaasi have girea tkcn a fair deaL... Ikcy fed an. gan ne datkaa, cared far ne, aad bi the aad kdped ndw H passible far the Navy ta icseae ne." 
Gearge was seat f the Natiaaal Naval Msd­ical Ceater, Bctkeada. Kd.. far a ckcckap. aad aad aew ia ia WaAiagtaa aa tenpacaiy daty. Siace hia icacae aa Jaa. 27. he haa bcea pra> natrd fran eaaiga ta ticateaaat. 
At NatR Daaw tar the year 1934-S5. Geaiga was giateatcd ftan Ibrvaettc Uaivenity. MI­waakee, ia US8. 
193 9 Annerat W. DaConnay, 1321 Gaorgia, Kansas City> Kaas. 
Lt. <]g) Valeatiae Deak. Cleveland, is sta­tioned in Washington, D. C : Baa. Bah Baltagher. Waverly, la., is sonewbere in Australia. Among the instraetors at a school tor newly arrived pilots 0t an Eighth Air Force P-51 Hnstang station ia England is Ist Lt. Ed CamB. I^ndi, ^. , who is in charge of a'eoorse in eommuniaUions. 
Lt. Bali* Wackier. Frederick. Md. is in the sanitary corps of the raediea] department. He wrote that one of the passengers aboard his boa* pital ship was Benwrd Bkn ^ '40, second Ueoten­ant in the air eotps and Poiple Hearted as a pilot ­of a B-25 oyer Vienna. Wounded in action with his Marine outfit in the Pacifie, Lt. Ed Bdaar has been ordered boose. 
Sgt. Laaia Baddet at Cunp Rowin Tex., as of late Febroary, expected an overseas transfer aooB. Marine Ist Lt. Bah Kicraaa. Milwankee. has returned to Miraner. Calif-, fraa the GSentral 
Pacific, where he logged 600 combat flying hours as a pilot with the transport air group. Bob fer­ried supplies throughout the Gilberts, Marshalls and Marianas. 
Charlie BbFarland, Oklahoma City, has recentb' teen promoted to the rank of captain in the Phil­ippines. Chuck's brother, Lt. (jg) Bob McFar-Und^ *42, is stationed in New York. Earl Brovrn, head coach at Dartmouth last fall, was awaiting his call into the maritime ?er\*ice. 
From Lt. Pete Sandrock. tJSXR, Terminal Island, San Pedro, Calif.: 
"Here is a little 'dope* about a few of the N.D. fellows I have met since I came out here to San Pedro last June. 
"Played golf and had dinner with Father Bo-land a few times while he was waiting for his ^hip. At that time there were about seven NJ). men around this area and we tried to get them together for a dinner but our schedule never seemed to allow for such an affair. 
"I called Martin Daly, secretary of the Los Angeles N.D. Club, on the phone the other day. He was more than nice and ver>' willing to help any of us in any way possible. I hope to be able to meet him before I leave- He is trying to do a good job, but transportation difficulties here are very bad. and so it is difficult to gather the crowd to any one spot for a dinner. 
"Have been to dinner with Rex Ellis, MO, sev­eral times the past few months. He is with the FBI and doing a fine job. His wife just presented Rex with a beautiful baby boy. 
"OlUe Hanter was here for a spell while wait­ing for an APA (troop transport). I met him at the anny chapel one evening while attending no­vena services. The army chaplain was from his home parish. 
"About two weeks ago while waiting for a friend in the bar at the Biltmore in Los An­geles, I heard someone say, *Sir, arent' you from Notre Dame?' I turned around and saw an army doctor. It was Jim Daley, '39, and I had failed to recognize him! He had just bid his wife good­bye and was leaving very soon for 'somewhere in the Pacific' After leaving Notre Dame, Jim went to St. Louis U. for his medicine. His last station here in the States was at Palm Springs. Calif. You can be sure we had some 'bull session.* 
"Now. as for me, in case anybody is interested. I left Port Everglades. Fla., in June of 1944 with orders to San Pedro, Calif., for a short training period in Harbor Entrance Cbntrol work. TiVe all thought that we would be overseas by the first of August. .. . So January rolls around and we get a leave during which many things happen. The most important is that I fly back to Syracuse, 
N. Y., and get married. Incidentally, the Ameri­can Air Lines pilot was very nice and flew over Notre Dame, in fact circled around, just for me, and believe me. that was a thrill. 
"I was married at a nuptial high Mass at St. John the Evangelist Church on Jan. 22, 1945. in Pulaski. N. Y., amid a beautiful snowstorm. I married Mary Elizabeth O'Brien (whom I met during my senior year at Notre Dame) of Sand/ Creek, N. Y. She went to St. Joseph's Oillege, Emmettsburgh, Md. The reason I am going into detail is because my home town paper, ('the Morning Oregonian'). had me married in an Evangelist church. While in New York, after the wedding. I had a nice visit with Dr. Frank Sowa. He is doing very well for himself. He is another Notre Dame graduate who does more than his share of helping the rest of us along. I talked on the phone to Dr. Paal Sartaretto. *36. He is work­ing in a laboratory in Brooklyn, N. Y. Also tried\ 
The Notre Dame Alu m n us 
at a midshipman hall. Ed is in training for a commission at Columbia Midshipmen School. 
"While home I missed Ed O'Mcara, M.A. *40. by a matter of a few hours. He came home on leave from the Army Air Base at Mountain Home, Idaho. 
"Art lsa\-novic, M.S., *39. is teaching at the Uni­versity of Portland and expects to be married to Betty Cronin of Portland, Ore. She is a mighty cute gal." 
We were happy to receive a long, inspiring and informative letter from AI Pacctta, from whom we had heard nothing since 1939. Al has come a long way since then; he received a law degree but gave up a career in favor of the decision to be a glider pilot. He participated in the France and Holland invasions and also flew one in Bastogne from which flight, he says, his hair is still standing. AI was married in 1942 and has an infant son. 
I 94 Q Lt. Robert G. Sanford, 3934 N. Maryland Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chuck Riffle and Loa Zontini. with the Cleve­land Rams last fall, passed their Army physicals and probably are in training by now. Command­ing oflicer of a landing ship. Lt. Ed Wnrtzebadi. 
M.A. '40. former secretary to Father O'Donnell, has participated in much action in the Philip­pines- Ed's wife and daughter are residing in South Bend. Capt. John Benedict's latest award— the DFC—has been sent to his wife, now staying with her family in Nashville, Tenn. John re­ceived the award for his services as pilot of a Flying Fortress, having completed 34 missions. 
"While on a recent tour of an island in the Mari­anas, Lt. Frank Leahy visited Marine Maj. George Haggerty, Flushing, N. Y. Also present at the Leatherneck camp to greet the Irish coach was Marine Maj. Bob Hackman, '3S. Clev^!and. 
Priorities are a problem even in the AAF and every day, a former N.D. man, 1st Lt. Jim SalU­van, Hamburg, N. Y.. has to make quick decisions that may save the life of a wounded combat man or afl"ect the tide of a battle at the front. Jim is a traffic specialist with the 27th air transport group in France. 
Sgt. Jean LePage was injured in an automobile accident in France in the line of duty (not bat-' tie) on Sept 23. Jean was hospitalized in Eng­land but expected (as of Dec 26) to report soon for duty in France- Ens. Bemie Swanser entered the service in July. 1944, and is now in Hono­lulu. SySgt. Jim Daner, cjo P.M., San Francisco. 
NAVY CROSS TO MEE 
For gallantry in risking his life beyond the call of duty. Major Fenton Mee, '39, Logansport, Ind., has been awarded the Navy Cross. Fenton is a Teteran of five years' service in the Marine Corps and has seen action on two major fronts, first in the North African campaign and» since early 1944, in fighting the Japanese in the Gil­berts and Marianas Islands. The awarding of the Navy Cross came as a result of his extreme bravery and skill in the Saipan campaign, when he led an infantry platoon to the rescue of the crews of two 
is an aerial gunner, and in late December had completed 14 missions against the Japs. 
1st Lt. Bob Sayia, Montclair, N. J., returned to the States from the Fifth Army front in north-em Italy on the Army rotation plan. Bob wears three campaign stars on his European Theater ribbon and has been awarded the combat infan­tryman bodge. He had been overseas since Octo­ber, 1942. 
Promotions: Pat Goff, Auburn. N. Y., to major at Fort Knox. iCy.: Didc Hizerski. Chicago, to captain at Scott Held. HI. (Dick holds the Dis­tinguished Unit Badge, the Air Medal with nine bronze oak leaf clusters and the Purple Heart) ; Ed Huton to first lieutenant at an air service command depot, England. 
IVom the rank of private first class in the air corps in the Aleutians to first lieutenant and bombardier of a Liberator bomber over war-torn Europe is th^ record of Lt. John Carran. Dear­bom, Mich. John, who has made 50 missions over Europe and is the holder of the DFC, the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters and the presi­dential citation with cluster, was, in January, recuperating from operational fatigue at the AAF Convalescent Hospital. St. Petersburg. Fla. 
Jolin Kotte is now associated with the law iirm of Blackwell, Walter and Gray in Miami, Fla. 

•\Vhere-they-are's: Jim Montedonico, (Lt. U. S. Army, retired), 5444 N. Main St., Decatur, III.: Lt. Ray Bradford* Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md.; Lt. Bill Tucker, navigator, FPO. San Fran­cisco ; Ens. Bob Wille, Boston, Mass.; Cpl. George Meeker, Fort Benning, Ga. 
From Mrs. Joe Ryan. Box 546. R.A.A.F., Ros­well, N. M., to Bob Sanford: 

"Fm tired of hearing Joe say, *I must drop Bob a line soon.' I'll do it for him and then it will actually be done. Really his intentions are good. 
"Joe hears quite frequently from Lt. Jack Hackett. *40, who is a pilot now flying B-24*s at Muroe. Calif. Jack took his basic flying training at Stuttgart, Ark., last June and July. Joe flew up there, and he and Jack had one night of re­union after three years. 
"Guess you know Joe is a major. He is in the air safety officer of the four-engine school here. 
"We had a letter from Ens. Al O'Meara. He has had about 11 months of sea duty- Al hopes to be home this summer. - His address is FPO, San Francisco. CpL Jim Lnnerman, *41. is stilt here in the finance office. He's been here longer than we have, and we will hit the two-year mark in May." 
In receipt of which, the alumni office adds the fervent wish that more wives, mothers, fathers, sisters et al. would follow Mrs. Ryan's example. Bob Sanford's father in Milwaukee would like to be swamped with mail for Bob and the "Alumnus." He's an ideal secretary pro tem, being full-time financial secretary of the Milwaukee K. of C 
Back in Boston, awaiting reassignment, in late February Capt. Don Foskett wrote of his relief at hearing the news that Phil Wade isjwas a pris­oner in Germany. Don said that John Gilrane was a first lieutenant in the Medical Corps and sta­tioned, at the latest report, in Colorado. 
Bob Sanford, who is still in the Dutch Enst Indies doing quartermaster work, has been pro­moted to first lieutenant. Major Tom Philpott re­ported on the fighting on Iwo Jima and the num­ber of Notre Dame men there: "My brother. Robert, ex. *45, is a private in the front lines." he said. "I haven't seen him since we came ashore. Ancelo Bertelli, the football player is here. So is Thomas Fitzharris.** 
to get in touch with Ed Tracy, '40. but I failed \ 

disabled tanks. Father Cornelia* Berran, newly ordained, is 
after calling all the'naval barracks in New Yorky 

as^gned to S t Patrick's Church. Fort Wayne. 
City daring which I interrupted practice air raid' 

Ind. 
104 1 Lt. John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 
• ' Dmrlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. Rohert Lonergan, The Chicago Tribune, Chicago, III. 
Addresses: Elvin Deal. Joliet Chemicals, Ltd.. Jotiet. III.; John Keith (research chemist). Ex­perimental Station. Nylon Research, E. I. duPont Co.. Wilmington, Del.: Francis Cross (layout draftsman), "?05" San Fernando Rd., Burbank. Calif.; Jerome Froelidi (physician). Newark City HospitaUN;_J^_^ ""^ 
Ray Williams was graduated from Jefferson Medical College, is interning in New Rochellc, 
N. Y., and expects to enter the Army medical corps in July. John Harrison, who left N.D. in '39 to enter the seminary, was ordained by the Most Rev. Walter A. Foery, D.D., in the Cathe­dral of the Immaculate Conception. Syracuse, 
N. Y.. on March 17. John's brother. Rev. Frank 
J. Harrison, ex. '33. was his sponsor at the ordi­nation. 
Where they are: Lt. Phil Hamel, Purchasing and Contracting Div., Charleston Port of Em­barkation, Charleston, S. C.; Capt. Art Hamby. APO 631, N. Y. C, first pilot on a 6-29; Srt. John Ross, Fort Bliss. Tex.; Ist Lt Henry Hashes^ interne. Mt. Carmel Hospital, Columbus, O.. (inactive duty until July) ; Ens. R. B, (Cap) Jehrinff* out in the Pacific. Jehring writes: "You should see the ship I'm on: I call it the good ship Malt-0-Meal as every meal I have aboard rises. LSM—they say, it means Land Ship Medi­um; I say. 'Landing Ship, Maybe* . . . amongst my duties falls the task of being acting Catholic chaplain. I have about 20 Catholic boys aboard and really run some snappy services. I get a good turn-out, even if I don't run a bingo game after. I have several good prospects for N.D. when this thing is over." 
From Lt. Alex Craw. M.S. Ml. Inyokern. Calif.: 
"This station is a relatively new one and is being planned as a permanent base. I am fortu­nate in having my wife, Dorothy, and son. Bob. with me. My job is that of aerological ofiicer, and we expect to move into our new hangar in a month or two. At present we are located at Harvey Field about 10 miles from the main base. Every once in a while I drop in on Art Lavery, '33, who has been here since this place was a brain child." 
Lt. Howard "Hutch" Korth, '41, gunnery officer on the destroyer escort Taberer, figured heroical­ly in the rescue of victims of the western Pacific typhoon which cap­sized three U.S. destroyers. 

Lt. (jg) James Cawley, '40, in­cluded this information in a recent letter: "Howard, the modest guy he is, didn't give much help but I found out a great deal from his shipmates. Howard's DE came up­on the survivor* of the two de­stroyers which were overturned. On several occasions, Howard went over the side—in water with 20­f<»ot waves—to save weak, help­less kids. He has been recommend­ed for Navy and Marine Corps medals for his remarkable work and it is indeed fortunate that he is alive today, for at one time he was given up for lost." 
A letter from Ens. Don Hasaire to lit Lt. (re­cently promoted) John Patterson (who recently was awarded the Bronze Star, "for some littla thing I did in combat"): 
"Since I left Notre Dame, I've spent 16 months in the naval intelligence in Chicago. That was followed by a couple of months at B^inbridge. Md.. NTS. then back to N.D. in October '43 for midshipman training. For the pnst eight months I've been in the South Pacific, as skipper of an LCT. Oh yes, in January. '44. Ginny Cartier (St. Mary's) and I were married in Our Lady Chapel. Sacred Heart Church. That day made my life at Notre Dame as complete as possible. 
"Along the way I've met a lot of Notre Dame men, many of them classmates. Lt. Ed Hclduone. '32, was one of my officers in Chicaga While back at N.D. in the fall of '43 I saw Jim HcVcy. Jim Bche, Gcorse Ferrick, Bob Fitzpatridc and Chuck Farrell. (I recently heard Chuck was miss­ing in France. I hope and pray it's a mistake). While on the West Coast I saw Skip Sdiriefcer. who had just returned' from 18 months overseas. At Pearl Harbor, had some good times with Mike Kelly, '43, and Bill Benet, '43. Also, saw Tom Henniffan, '42, and just missed Jim O'NeaL '42, Another N.D. man. Tom Batlen is operating in my flotilla out here. 
"If at all possible, I'd like to hear from Bob Fitzpatrick, Frank Lavclle. Ed Graham, Mike Kccgan. and George Mifes!'' 
Lt. Ed Baddy. St. Louis, led a company of Ma­rines 150 yards in advance of PII other companies of the 26th Regiment on Iwo Jima. after casual­ties had raised him to senior rank. It was Ed's first battle experience. 
Georffe Meltzer. a graduate student at N.D., save the following information on '41 men: 
Sgt. John Gubanich is in the Pacific: he has a two-ycar-old i^on. Pfc Ben Ciaccio* Wendover. Utah, visited Notre Dame in January, 1945. Lt. Bill Bogan is in England with a medical detach­ment. Noel MacCarry, who has an honorable dis­charge, is a reporter on the "Sun-Telegraph" in Pittsburgh. Both Rnss Harris (in service) and John White are in N.Y.C.; John is working in radio. Lt. Tom McGee is a radar instructor at St. Simon's, Ga. Tom had seen active service in the Pacific for 33 out of 36 months served. SySfft. John MacCaaley is in England. Sgt. Jim O'Brien. England, is married and soon to be a father. 
Lt. John Coppinccr^ a prisoner of war in Ger­many, edited and directed Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar" for the benefit of the men at his camp. He consolidated the five-act drama into one 75­minute performance, without intermission. John has directed several other "barhed-wire" produc­tions. 
Winner of the DFC and the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters. 1st Lt. OUie Schoo, Louis­ville, flew 50 missions based in Italy as a B-24 pilot. Lt. (it) Jim Weldi (in February) was mak­ing his third trip in the Pacific as gunnery offi­cer on his ship. The Silver Star for gallantry in action has been awarded to Lt. (it) Jerry O'Dowd. Fort Wayne, Ind. He Is serving with the amphibious forces in the Pacific area. 
Bill Daly, with an amphibian engineering unit in the Pacific, has "seen quite a bit of this part of the world, including New Zealand. Australia. New Guinea, New Britain, the Admiralties and a few other places, including the Netherlands East Indies where I am now. I am well over a year here, and the only -N.D. man I have met is Sam Nield from my own class." 
Bob Stnhr. Modesto. Calif., recently was pro­moted to the rank of lieutenant. Bob is a navi­gator for an air transport squadron. Bob Dowd, Cleveland, received the rank of warrant officer, junior grade, at the St Louis Ordnance District office where he is stationed. 
SCHALLER RECEIVES NAVY CROSS 
For scoriBK a daBUsinf torpedo Ut oa a Japanese battlesliip in die Battle of tlie PUIippine Sea last October, Lt. (jc) William J. Sclialler, '41, Milwankee, was awardecl tlie Navy Cross, the Navy's lushest award. Bill was cited for his courage and skill in pressing home his successful at­tack in the face of intense and ac­curate anti-aircraft fire. In the same battle. Bill also "worked over" a Jap aircraft carrier. 
A veteran of extensive action in the Pacific, especially in the Phil­ippines, Bill returned to the United States in March for reassignment. He will be one of the speakers on April 9 at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Milwankee. 
After completing his second combat tour. Lt-B.fc Savfse returned liome on leave in March. In this tour, Bob's sroup participated in 19 sep­arate engagements, including fleet action last October ofT the Philippines and the January in­vasion of the China sea. Bob, also a veteran of the Solomons campaign of 1943, has won the Air Medal. 
From LI. (jc) Frank Hopkins in the Pacific to Lt, Jahn Pattersan: 
"Receive the 'Alumnus* quite regularly although I must admit it takes a few- months because the gold dome is far from here. Looking over the '41 news, I'm amazed at how much we've all slipped apart and hope a small contribution from me can disclose the presence of a few in our clas^ and some 'strays' in other years. One big feature about the *41 class is this continued prestige in one branch of the 'Alumnus,' and that's in con­tributions, and we're all more than confident of keeping up the excellent record. 
"Frankly can't understand the reason, but all or nearly ail the N.D. boys I've met are in the Navy, with a few in the Marine Corps. Recently I've run into Jehnny O'Brien. '41 (our great end) who is now a full lieutenant in the Navy and holding down a deck division job on an assault transport. Larry Byrnes. '41, who is a jg in the Navy and also on an assault transport. Many months ago bed dinner and a few drinks with Fred HaO. '41. who has two silver bars and 'working' now. There were a number of N.D. men in Pearl Harbor at the time and regular meetings were being held, and believe the club has grown. 
' "My buddies, Lt. Bill Hawes. '41. and Jiai Han­nigan. '41. were skipper and exec on an LCI, but the Pacific was much too lonesome a spot for Hawes. so he went home and left Jim in charge. 
"Marty Slwa. '41, is a sergeant in the Army, and despite numerous attempts, has not gone overseas but is still firmly entrenched in a job of executive nature for the quartermaster. Receive some regular mail from Walt Bicnaan. '41, who is now a M.D., doing his internship at Stapleton Marine Hospital in Staten Island. Certainly would like to hear about a few more of the *41 class, including Ckariie Dilka. the HcLaagUin twins. 
Chadc FarrclU Frank Lavclla, and so many 
others. 
"The following N.D. fellows I've met in the 
Pacific, and all recently: Frank Witte, '40, is an 
engineering officer on a transport, wearing a sil­
ver bar in the Coast Guard. Gcrrj- Rothlein, *3S. 
is a lieutenant (jg) in the Hsxy. Jack Wuertz, 
*42, is an ensign aboard a transport. Also met 
ZiRmond Wesolowski, *42. who's a jg in the 
Navy. 
"For myself—for the last 18 months or so I've been working in amphibious work, making land­ings from Tarawa on down to the more recent ones. At present I'm an assistant flag secretary and keep busy as anything, with a million and one things to do. Hcpeful of coming home soon to my loving wife but w-e can always be disaiv pointed. 
"Here's hoping a miracle happens and we can all be back home for good and especially in time for our fifth reunion." 
From Lt. Jack Gaither to Pat: 
".. . After graduation I went to Evansville. Ind., and took a job with a public accounting firm. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to stay with them as long as I would have liked for my commission came through in April of '42 and I was calUd to immediate active duty» Marjilee (Pam) Schaefl"er, St. Mary's ex. '42, I announced our engagement in September of that year and we were married on Nov. 26, when I returned from duty at New­port. R. I. \Vhile in Washington I occasionally saw Ral|)h Gcrra who w*as at the Na\'y Depart­ment at the time and I ser\'ed with Vcm Wit­kowski. who. incidentally, has just returned from Europe and has married Carol Shea, who is one grand girl. While I was in San Francisco I ran across Tommj' Teamey, *42 who was on an SC boat. I h::d hoped to spend some time with him but unfortunately I had to embark be­fore contacting him again. 
I really regret that I haven't been able to sec more of the fellows who pass through Hawaii, but our isolated location on the island keeps me away from Pearl Harbor and Honolulu, so there is really Httle opportunity to run across them. I did see Fred HoU one day at the Officers' Club and he said that he had an apartment down in Honolulu. That has been quite some months ago however. Lt. (jr) Bill Donohne, *34. and I are now working together and spend most of our spare time discussing the old days. We're both going to try to get to a meeting at St. Augus­ine's at Waikiki some day. but so far neither of our schedules have permitted. George Thompson called Pam and me in Washington when he was passing through shortly after his martiage. I heard that Bill Gan^'ey was flying to Europe as a gunner but have had no definite word of him. The last I heard of Ross Harris he was in Miami at the training center but that too. has been ciuite some time ago. 
"I have often wondered whatever happened to Vinny Morris, Don Mnrtaagh, Tom Murphy, Rcn­n3* Catlip, Pat SIcDonncll and some of the other lads from Dillon and Alumni. I would certainly like to hear from all of them if they ever find the time to write." [Address available in Alum­ni Office—Eds.]" 
From lA. Oscar Hastens to Pat: 
"Since graduation I have seen very few of the old gang, although now I am able to move around more in the South and North Pacific. Just be­fore leaving^ the States, I had opportunity to see Lt. <je) Bud Lonxo at the N.D.-Wisconsin game, but other than him, haven't seen anyone else. 
"I came into the Army the forepart of 1942 and have been in the Air Corps ever since. I am now a C-46 pilot, hauling supplies to advanced bases and. doing air evacuation of the wounded on the return trip. At present I am based in the Philippines, but our flights cover areas' from Australia to Palau and Bougainville to the Philip­pines. So if you know the APO number or Fleet Post Office number I can stop in for a chat with them. 
"Am still looking forward to the five-year re­union next year. If things keep up, I think there is good chance to be back." 
Lt. Walt Fegan, South Bend, on duty with the Na\-y cargo transport service, was home on a short leave and visited the campus on March 21. 
1942 ^P'- William £. Scanlon, 101 
• #-»A ^ Pleasant St., Portage, Wis. 
From Scoop Scanlon: This time we'll swing into action with_ a V-mail from Germany, dated Feb. 8 and authored by Lt. Ken Rohyans, then assigned to an infantry outfit: "Just managed to catch an 'Alumnus*—October issue—and had quite a time reading and enjoy­ing memories over the familiar names. Very sad­dening to read the notices coupled with some of them, though. Met L t Arch MacLeod on the boat in October during my second trip from Eng­land to France. We did a hit of travelling to­gether in France. "Haven't had a chance to visit gay Paree yet but heard plenty through the Army papar about Lt. Jim Curran's Ninth A.F. Thunderbolts clean­ing up the football competition in that region." Ne:ct. Ens. George Uhl. w-ho reported once more from M.I.T., Cambridge. Mass., on Feb. 17: "The fellows that I know of now in radar school are John Hanifin, '42, George Powers and Walter Brehmer, EE's of about *44. Also Bob Wille, who was a chem engineer grad student when I was a junior. Also I've met Bob Witte, who was in physics, and who is now in pre-radar at Har\'ard. "And. I've finally gotten to see Dr. Coomes, for whom I worked in the physics lab. He's at Radiations Labs here at M.I.T., and I was able to have lunch with him the other day. I found that he works in the building next to the one in which I'm now taking a course at M.I.T. He said that he had talked with Father 0*DonncIl only a few days earlier. "Last weekend I went to New York and at­tended the New Rochelle College Senior Ball— 15 minutes of it. I didn't get into N.Y.C- until midnight. Just after the dance I met Marty Fitz-Patrick in the hallway. He was a pre-med. from the Canal Zone. He's about finished at Med School, Columbia University, and is in an Army uniform. He said that Jack Hogan of our class is there too, in dental school I believe. His big­gest news was of Earl Dean, who has recently teen stationed on Long Island, N. Y-, at a Naval Receiving Station. He is now a lieutenant (jg). married to the cute girl from New Orleans, and has a daughter." By now, George expected to have completed his course and his exact whereabouts hasn't been reported yet. Lt. Tom Powers, on Feb. 6. forwarded from his M.P. post at New Orleans a V-mail from S/Sgt. Paul Neville, still with a Fighter Group lut this time located in France. Paul wrote, on Jan. 13: "My mother sent a clipping about Father Car­rico's death. They sure are losing a lot of good m^n out' there. And, of course, the Army game. My loyalty was too much for my pocketbook. My CO. is Col. Ray J. Stecker, who ran wild for Army in 1931 to pin the last Point defeat on the Irish—and made himself an Ail-American, inci­dentally. After the game he walked in and in­uuired if I thought N.D. would finish the season.­
We bantered back and forth but, of course, when a sergeant and a colonel engage in a battle of wits the former is practically unarmed. But the last three games were considerable consolation. 
"Talked with Joe Hrachovec via the telephone a few days ago and mailed him a copy of the 'Alumnus* that arrived. He forwarded a letter from Em Keenan and evidently the Belvidere Kid has been around since the tanks started moving last July. Have heard little else from any of the 
N.D. clan but I'm wondering if enough of them will be home to attend that five-year reunion. 
"I'm back in public relations and enjoying the work. Quite a few correspondents come through and I'm making some good contacts. The work is right up my alley, too- .. . I hear also that I may go to a Ninth Air Force public relations school at Paris for a week.*' 

A From two sources I've heard from and about Lt. John H. Detwiller. On Feb. 16 his dad, ColJ 
\ A." K. Detwiller, post-carded from New York City,'. 1 a few notes on John, giving his current Tactical \ \Air Corps Group APO number and added: 
"He w*as commissioned a second lieutenant. Air Corps, in November, *43, at Will Rogers Field. Okla., and made a first lieutenant in Au­gust, '44. in FranceT'He* h~a"s been attached to both the SUTand^gth Air Forces" while iii England. Later he participated in the invasion of Norman­dy, operations in FVance. Belgium and Germany. Incidentally, he is sporting a heavy black old-fashioned mustache of the handle-bar type. His j'oungerbrother is with the Army Engineers in the Philippines." 
Then j>n^eb._ 22, Lt. John D. came through with this communique from" a New York APO: 
*'I did little but sleep at N.D., and I*m still working on that theory. When I reach 24 solid hours a day every day. I'll be satisfied. I haven't much news to offer but I'd like to get the current addresses of Jolui J. Conry and Bart Crowley, chemical engineers from our class. 
"Pve been married, inducted, overseas a year, shot at, etc., but haven't encountered any N.D. men at all. I must not_ hit the right pubs. For / publication you can say Detwiller is in Belgium ] after~Englai^, Normandy. Paris—^Hmm!, Luxem-; bourg. etc. That should take care of any inter-,' ested parties.*^' ' ~~ ""^ 
On Feb. 18, Clarence Imboden wrote from his V-12 post in New Orleans: 
"Just a word of commendation on the class of '42 news and to ask if you know the whereabouts of my former roommate. Don Gnyette." 
Here's a question—is there another Marine Corps captain of the class of '42? 
From a Fleet Post Office address. San Francis­co, comes word on March 2. from Jim O'Langhlin and he's currently a Marine captain. So far he and Bemic McKay are the first promotions to captain for any member of our class. Congratu­lations! But let Jim take over: 
"It's been a long time betwesn letters, but I'm starting off again. After the fight for Pele-lieu was over, I received the very pleasant news that I v/as eligible for a leave, having completed two years over here. I left camp shortly after­wards and spent a grand and glorious 30 days at home. 
"No fooling, it was like a dream—took me a full week before I actually realized that I was in 
U.S.A. Whey my leave was up, the Marine Corps very obligingly flew me back here to the outfit-No sir. Bill, I- can't complain about the breaks I've had in the service. There have been lots of rough moments, but I've made out all right all the way around. 
"Heard from Slash Richanb recently. He's still with WTIC, Hartford, Conn.'s radio station. Seems as though Slush is planning on the nuptials some­time in May. 

"While at home. I met Father Jchn Barkc, now a naval chaplain, at the Hospital at Bethesda. Md." 
A tiny little envelope came north from Oak Ridge, Tenn.. announcing the birth of Joseph Arthur (7 ^ pounds), to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Roriclt. Joe wrote on the back: 
"TTie Mrs. is not a St. Mary's girl, though of the same quality. I am still 2B. Tennessee is not part of the sunny south. Good going on the news roundup for the 'Alumnus.' Will write a letter one of these days." 
From Hammond. Ind., came this communique from S/Sct. Joe SolKk» on Jan. 12: 
"Hi Scoop—^You probably don't remember me as well as you do my brother George, but we saw the 'Alumnus* and George told me to drop a line-We had it rather fortunate. We both had leaves together just recently and it's the first time we had seen each other since we've been in and that's been over two years. 
"George is a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy and has been stationed in Panama. He's awaiting re­assignment down there now. I'm a staff sergeant in the Air Corps and just a few months ago I finished my 50th mission as an aerial gunner. I was with the 15th Air Force in Italy and a tail gunner. I've got the Air Medal with four clusters and a presidential citation. 
"While home on leave, wc both went to N.D. to see a basketball game—a third Sobek is now playing there." 
From somewhere in North Africa. Steve Pa-vela. SK 3^c. wrote on Feb. 2: "Baseball in this country in the summer is Ideal. The warm sun­shine and the climate would be a haven for teams back home. I can honestly say it is by far the best climate I've ever had the opportunity to play in—but X wish I could say the'same for the diamonds. In chasing fly balls, you often are forced to maneuver your way through herds of sheep—Arab-guided—before you can hope to catch the ball." 
Steve's team won the area crown and lost in the finals in the North African World Series at Oran. They lost two close ones. 1-0 and 2-1. "Got my biggest thrill when I hit the fence in Oran in the series to drive in the tying run. It was the longest hit I got all year—350 feet. For me that's a long drive. My best hits arc usually liners, of which those in the Notre Dame-Great Lakes game are still favorite recollections." 
Basketball is also one of Steve's overseas diver­sions and upon probing-I discovered that he ­hasn't lot his scoring eye.. In one game he tallied 42 points and hit 20 points several times. 
Reporting in on Jan. 27 from the Lon? Island College of Medicine, Brooklyn, was Pfc. Bill Farrellf who penned: 
"This is just a little note to mention some of the N.D. fellows I have met and heard from. Bemie McKay is now a captain in the Marine Corps. He was married recently to Hiss Sue Ann Wilson of Indianapolis. Bemie is now back in action in the Pacific. 
"Cpl. Joe Rocers was home on furlough to Rockaway just before Christmas. He was finish­ing his training as a combat engineer in Texas and as of late January his address was Fort Mc­Clellan, Ala. I met Doctor Johnny Kelly and Sal LaPilosa at Kings County Hospital. Johnny is now a first lieutenant and was last seen heading for Carlisle Barracks. Pa. 
"I have seen no previous mention of it so I will tell you that Jim Barke is married. The last I heard from him was when he was being trans­ferred from some Texas airfield. I met Tom Rcilly and his wife on the I.R.T. subway in Brooklyn a few weeks ago and rode a couple of stations with them. He looks fine. I am just about finished with my medical course. If all goes well. I will be graduated in June." 
The Chicago "Sun" on March 15 carried a note­worthy story on Lt. (jg) Bob Maddock: 
"Lt. Bob Maddodc, a member of the Notre Dame and Chicago Cardinals football team be­fore entering* midshipman school at' Columbia University in December. 1942, passed through Chicago yesterday while en route to his home in South Bend. Haddock is on leave from the Navy following 14 months duty on a troop transport attack ship which saw action at Mnrshall Islands. Guam, Felelieu. Leyte. and other Pacific inva­sion i>oints." 
Now to get down to things from the Fort Sheridan angle — I'm currently atached to the Special Service Division, working at the Post Gymnasium where my duties call for me to handle various sports in season, with a little PT and publicity tossed in for good measure, Leich SaliiTaii is still here in the elassifieation depart­ment, and Bin StkUea continaes to bum up the courts as a member of the Bakers and Gbcto school team. At last count, he was No. 1 amons Midwest scorers with 486 poSnts. I heard from Mrs. Harokl lUlett on March 16 that Lt. Jade TaDett, who previously wa& reported mlssins after a bombing mission over Vienna, is now safe. He has also been promoted to first lieaten­ant. and serves with the 15th Air Force in Italy, beins back on duty now. 
Recently I got to Portage. Wis., for a weekend and had a brief chat with Lt.T*ai Hcnaey, who was en route to a new base from Goortland Army Air field, Ala. "He said he heard from a good source that Jack Feara« of old Sorin Hall is safe. Jack had been earlier mentioned as miss­ing in action. 
Tji Bin Bfarphy is supply sergeant in the Sep­aration Center—the place a lot of fellows would easily volunteer to visit. Murph sees just about everyone leave the Service. 
Here's another news-laden message about law­yers cominff from the ready pen of Mrs. Lora Lashbrook. dated March 10: 
"A lot of interesting news has come in from every part of the globe from and about *42 law­yers. Lt. J. J. Barr writes from his ^paradise* in the South Pacific that he had visited with Lt* JerMBe 0*D*wd, when the latter came ashore and invited him to dinner aboard the O'Dowd ship. 
**Befc RidMrdaeB is in charge of a region for the FBI and is stationed at Lumbarton. N. C. Alex Chelis wrote recently from inside G^many. and a few days later wrote again from some place in France. He has had a great many interesting experiences as an officer for the Allied Military Government oSSce in that area. Jordan Hamel is in the Air Corps, stationed in Florida. He expects 
a. furlough to visit this area soon and we take this means of insisting that he come in to bring us up to date on his career. In exchange, we will tell him how this information came to us. 
"The most interesting letter of the month cnme from Ernie Timpani. He says he went into Eu­rope shortly after D-day. and has been right at the front through France, Belgium and into his present location which he was not permitted to disclose! 
"From Mrs. Miller, I learn that her son. Joe> is still in the Pacific, on the same ship to which he wcs originally assigned. On Feb. 27, he wrote thr.t he has hopes of a leave sometime this spring. The Ion? silence of one Peter UMBU S Alenii was broken by a Christmas greeting from Treasure Island. Calif. Fete is stationed there in the Navy, and when any of the boys in that area or in the Pacific get into port near there, look him up. 
**Leaie Andcnen paid us a call a week or so ngou He was proudly displaying the latest photo­graph of his year-old daughter. Louis is working in a local defense plant legal department, but expects a navy commission very soon. 
"Jim Daacr wrote a line from his Air Station down in the Southwest Pacific. He is a staff ser­geant and his AFO is 119. He was having a rest leave ^in Australia, catching up on stesks, milk and ice cream! He reported Andy Clwmcy as be­ing stationed not too far from him. but pointed out that 'near* in that area where anything up to a thousand miles. He told us that BiU Heyan is stationed in California and that he. had recent­ly passed the Illinois Bar Exams. 
'*Bin Span^r wrote. two leters recently from his station in India. Contrary to most reports 
When Nancr Moloney and Paul TafeL Jr., were married on Feb. 12, 1944, in St Pat­from that area. Bill finds the place and its peo­
rick's Cathedral, New York City, thia group oi Notre Dame men assisted in the ceremony. ple very interesting. He is doing some kind of governmental work there for the Army and has 
Left to right are Charlie Conger, '42: Bill Tafel, a prospectiTe Notre Dame student; Tom 
been permitted to vint their temples and other 
Walker. '42; the late Jerry KiUigrew, '42; Poul Tafel, '42; Rev. Paul D. Doherty. C.S.C '27, 
places usually closed to the or^nary tourist-uncle of the bridegroom; Byron Eanaley, '42; Jack Saas, '41, and Fred Paulmann, *42. All Among other places of interest to him that he 
o! the group except Father Doherty, who officiated, and Paul Tafel were ushers. had visited was St Gregory's School, ot»erated* 
by Holy Cross Brothers, so they had a nice ses­sion of talking about Notre Dame. He says he knows now first hand how important are the funds raised by the Bengal Bouts. 
•'Jerry Feeney -wrote from his ship on Feb. 1. He expected a leave in April and promised a Notre Dame visit, Ted Frericks has been ^ven a medical dischar^ from the Navy and is back in Ohio. We expect a visit from him, too. Graham Mc€towan is an aviation cadet at Eagle P;iss, Tex., accordini; to the return address of a hello l>ostcard from down there­
"A nice letter from Jim Diver on the Euro­pean fighting front came in not lonjr ago. He was especially interested in news of Dancr. Jack Mey­er and Bill Hoffan. Lawrence Fersusan is pmc­ticing here in South Bend and is in the Trust Dcp::rtment of the St. Joseph Bank. 
"Bill Hosinski has been ill and is still hospital­ized in the Army Hospital at AlbuQuerque. There is a possibility that he may get a medical dis­charge as a result of his illness. Joe Lavery is with the Army in Europe, but recently was given an assifniment behind the lines. 
"Leo Linck surprised us pleasantly a week ago by dropping in for a visit. He is -stationed at Truax Field. Wis., with the Air Corps. 
**As you read in the February 'Alumnus.' Jcrrj' Killierew is listed as 'killed in action.* Jerry is the second of the lawyers to give his life in this war. The first was Fanl Kashmer, officially reported dead on Feb. 15, a year after the 'missing in ac­tion* report- Both are Hoosiers, both were Arts and Letters graduates in the combination course, and their names appear together on all the Law School records because of the alphabetical ar­rangement of class rolls. It is hard to believe that they will not be aroonu those who come back after the war. 
"Bob Snllivan, now Maj. Sullivan of the AAF, wrote on Jan. 28 from France. He is legal officer and is handing out 'justice' in Army style, for several months- He was fortunate while on leave recently in Paris, to make the acquaintance of a French law student whose father is a criminal court judge, and who was good enough to show Bob around the courts. He plans another visit when he will take in the 'minor chambers* of the Palais de Justice. As far as we know. Bob is the first major from the ranks of the '42 lawyers, although we have no late information on some of his competitors. Anyone know of another major, or above?" 
That's all for now. but don't forget; 
IF IT'S NEWS. WRITE SCOOP! 
Two more Notre Dame men working at Fort Sheridan are CpL Wmiam P. Walsh, who is edi­tor of the newsy "Counselors' Bulletin." and Sgt. Georce CosteUo of the ofiicers* section at the Sep­aration Center. Any of you fellows doffing the khaki at Ft. Sheridan may run into either of them. 
Here's a late atr-mail report from Lt, (jg) Frank (Hoot) Gibson* dated March 4 from some­where in ttie Pacific: 
". . . I-am now a lieutenant (jg) on the De­stroyer .. . in the Pacific. I want to report aboi;t a few of our classmates I have met here in the vast Pacific area. About six months ago, I was in Pearl Harbor and met Mike Kelly, Duke Ganller and Ray Roy. All are now lieutenants (jg). Mike is -with an amphibious group and h^d just re­turned from Guam. Duke is on a TC and has ssen considerable action in all the recent events. Ray is on a destroyer, ser\'ing as supply officer. 
"After leaving Pearl Harbor we were in on some of the Philippine invasions, and one d3y while refueling at sea. I met Jerry Rabbitt. Jerry is communications officer on an oiler. Our ship was refueling from his ship and we talked to each other via phone- The last person I met was 
LIEUT, (JG) BERNARD A. CRIMMINS 
"For distinguiMng himself hy con­spicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action against the enemy," Lt. (jg) Bernard A. Crimmins, '42, received the Silver Star Medal from Vice Admiral T. 
C. Kinkaid, USN.Tfae presentation was made by Cmdr. David J. Walsh, (left) commanding officer of Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center, Mel­ville, R. I., where Bemie is on duty. 
Don Martin. It was on the Atoll Eniwetok-I was sitting in the Officers* Club when he came in. Don is a first lieutenant in the Marines. He has seen considerable action on Saipan. He told me he had gotten married just after he finished OTC, and he is now a papa to a girl. She was six months old when he last saw her. 
"Recently heard from my old roommate. Lee Hastings^ Lee is a. first lieutenant in the Army, now serving with Gen. Paton's 7th. Lee is also married to his school days* girl friend, Mary Jane. And they, too, have a child. I also heard from Joe Roridc. from Tennessee. 
"I almost forgot to report that I also met Jerry FIjTin in Pearl Harbor. He is a lieutenant on the Aircraft Carrier. ... " 
Lt. CoL Frank Gabreaki, Oil City. Pa., top American air ace in the ETO. now a captive in Germany, was honored on Feb. 12 at a civic cel­ebration in Oil CSty. The directive for the cele­bration came from President Roosevelt himself. General Clark, commanding general of the Mid­dletown. Pa., Air Technical Service Command, made the formal presentation of the hero's awards to Frank*s father. Father James Lc«]iy, C.S.C., represented the University at the cele­bration-
Lt. Bob Harcrave. serving as executive officer aboard the *USS Noa during the battle of Pelelieu. figured heroically in a four-hour attempt on Sept. . 12, 1944. to save the ship after a collision prior to the opening of the initial shore bombardment on Pelelieu and Angaur Islands. The salvage crew toiled until the point of exhaustion but to no avail; the Noa gave up the fight and went down in 2,000 fathoms of water. 
Excerpts from a letter hy Lt. (jg) Otto Molidor, c/o FPO, San Francisco: 
The Navy took me in as an ensign in the Sup­ply Corps on July 21. 1942, and since then I have been doing that type of work,- moving up to my present rank, which I now hold. I was also mar­ried on Thanksgiving Day. November 26, 1942. and we are the proud parents of a 15-month-old boy. named Stephen James. My little family are now living: in Libertyville, 111., awaiting the completion of my tour of duty.*' 
Lt. <JC) Mike Kelly returned from the Pacific. became mairried. and is going to the Naval Acad­emy. Lf. (Ji:) Bill Strycker. returning^ from over­seas duty, visited with his family in South Bend for a few weeks l=st December and January. 
S/Sfft. Gearce Norman, Chicago, is a chief clerk with the first Mobile Radio Broadcrsting Company, an Allied Force Headquarters* outfit that wages psychological warfare, disseminating propaganda to German troops. German civilians and people in enemy-occupied countries. Overseas 20 months. George wears the Mediterranean Thea­ter ribbon with tw^o battle participation stars and the good conduct medal. Bob Conrtncy's promo­tion to first • lieutenant has been announced by headquarters at Tinker Field, Oklahoma City. Okla. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Corps at Miami Beach. Fla-, in April, 1944. Ist Lt. Tom Fitzfaarris. USMCR, has been in the South Pacific for two years. His brother, CpL WilliaM E. Fitzharris, is in England. 
Received from John McDonnell: "I have had quite a varied experience since leaving^ Notre Dame: I was discharged from the Navy and then the Army, due to sinus trouble-In January of last year. I entered the Army again, and since then have toured the Pacific. 

- believe roe! At present, I am on an island in the Netherlands East Indies. We sjwnt considerable time fixing our area, and are quite proud of our abode now—even the natives think we are Cix­pert engineers. 
"I have hesrd from several of the fellows-Bob O'Hara is in New Guinea. Otto Molidor was still aboard ship when he wTote last. Geoi^e Wes­tenWrser was all set for overseas duty the last time I heard from him. John Lnthringer has been in OCS and, I believe, has completed the course. I keep hoping I will run into someone I know, but no luck so far." 
Al Bmnn, Hightstown, N. J„ was commissioned a second fieutenant in the Marine Corps recently at the Naval Air Training Bases, Pensacola. Fla. Lt. (jr) Don Grant's address is way of FPO, 
N.Y.C. A Navy pilot, Lt. (jg) Maurice Landers is serving in the Pacific. 
Lt. <j») Stephen Ensner, in the Navy since January, 1943, has been in all the island inva­aons since he went to Pearl Harbor in July, 1943. He is aboard a destroyer. 

Lt. (iff) B«h Matthews, commanding officer of Ae USS. PC 1129, the loss of which has been announced in a Navy communique, served con­secutively as communication officer, executive of­ficer and in command of the ship. The USS. PC 1129 participated in the Lingayen Gulf operations 
^ in the Philippines in January, 1945, and later Was lost in the Philippine area as the result of enemy action. Bob was not a csstialty of the action. 
194 3 ^"*^^ Edward C Roney, 1723 Iroquois Ave., Detroit, Mich.; 

;. FromvEil'^Rowy: 
^^f Still ^'haven't seen the February issue of the "Alumnus." so I don't know just what kind of a blow the class got for its excellent showing in the Alumni f^nd for last year. But I believe that this issue will show that we've already started toward an even bigger and better record. 
Only three items of correspondence this time— two letters and a newspaper item I spotted in the "Miami Herald." 
The first letter is from an old friend that we haven't heard from before. Says Tom Maloney. ••"the only one I know unlucky (?) enough to be 
spendJnGT the war in bed: **This is that long-lost fellow from Jersey City, trying to do a little re­porting. Since I happen to be one of those few civilians left, I haven't had much opportunity of meeting many of the fellows. 
'. "Just after the first of the year I was paid a visit by my former roommate. John McNulty. He is a sergeant in the infantry and was at a FOE at the time. He came for a couple of nights and then he was off for Europe. I have since received a letter from his mother in which she states that 'Mac* is now somewhere in France­
"About two weeks ago I received a call from Leo Sclafant* the swell guy I roomed with in Alumni. He was home on a five-day leave and dropped over to see me before shoving off. ^Vhat you may not know is that he is now an ensign having graduated from Columbia. Prior to that he had served in the Pacific for about 10 months. From Columbia he was sent to Florida for about 12 weeks, where he met Bilk Middendorf, who was also attending school there. Bill was one of the fellows who took the trip with me to Indtannp­olis when we enlisted in V-7. 
"Since then, of course. I have received my dis­charge and am still at home recuperating. They claim it may take about a year yet But to get back to Leo—he's now out on the Atlantic some­where. 
"Harry O'Healia, a fellow Jersey Cityite. is now somewhere in France. His father passed away about two months ago. A priest from the school we both attended told me that Harry has received the Bronze Star for bravery. The good old boys of '43. 
"Joe Mannion is working for Pan-American Airways in New York and is attending Fordham law school at night. 
"I often think of the good old times we had over in old Morrissey. That was some crew we had—Morrill, Grofan, Oliver, Narffls, Roney, and yours truly. Quite a collection! Your Dorsey rec­ords passed many a pleasant hour." 
Those days in Morrissey were really something. Tom Morriirs fencing duels; "Bathless" Grogan's almost hourly marches to the showers; Naegle*s hollering for quiet, and Oliver and his mice. Those were the days! It's very good to hear from you. Write again an,d get that strength back quick so you'll be in shape for the class reunion. 
The "Miami Herald" item in part (from its Ft-Lauderdale section): "Details have just arrived here of the wedding in Scotland of Miss Helen Simpson McLean. dauRhter of Mr. and Mrs. W. 
J. McLean of Mill-of-Rathven. Buckie. Scotland, to Lt. (jg) Frederick Peter Gore of this city. The marriaKe took place Jan. 27 in St. Mary's Cathe­dral. Aberdeen, with Mgr. C. MacDonald officiat­ing. A reception followed the wedding where the Stars and Stripes were placed over the wedding cake. LU and Mrs. Gore left for a wedding trip to Edinburgh and London. They plan to make their home in Fort Lauderdale after the war." 
That, I think, is the first wedding of a mem­ber of '43 to a foreign girl. Congratulations, Fred, and we'll all be looking forward to meeting Mrs. Gore and her Scottish accent at that same class reunion. 
The second letter is from Bill Dooley, manag­ing editor of the "Alumnus" and carries news of the deaths (as reported in the February "Alumnus") of Hobo Fischer and Ray McManns. On top of that was the news (to be in the April issue) of the death of Ed Doyle, an old friend and rival in the K. of C The class will long re­member all three men, and their families can be sure that we'll remember them in our prayers, 
I have a new permanent dtity station: I'm now communications officer at a Naval Air Facility not too far from Rid tie Janeiro. 
Till next time. then, best of luck, all of you. and how about some of you dropping the column a line with some news? 
From Red Lonergan: 
This month we had a definite drop in the cor­respondence, but that could be due to the tre­mendous amount of activity in the Pacific theater as well as the active push now being made on the western front. Then many of the fine letters written to me went unanswered as my father died early in February, and I have had little time to keep up my correspondence. We know those who are actively engaged on either front will have little time to write, but how about the rest of you pounding^ out a nevrsy letter? 
Here's a mighty fine letter from Sonny Ran­dolph's sister. Gloria. (Sunny is a co-pilot on a B-24, stationed in the Pacific). "I thought you might like to know how* my big brother is pro­gressing regardless of how reluctant he is to in­form you. Bits from his last couple of epistles: 
" 'I could write a book about the natives here —all Catholics and unbelievably honest. While in dire poverty as far as clothes are concerned they return every single piece of laundry. My wash­woman is doing my month's wash on the promise of material for a dress. So please don't forget that in my next box. Something solid for a skirt-striped or plaid. Send it right away if you can. Even if I move on, there's a nun who will see to it that she gets it.' 
" 'The clothes problem fails to worry her two little boys, one wears a couple of knives, and the other wears a chain and medal. And that's all. Their managing of the clothes problem is kind of like basic English—it concentrates on eliminat­ing the unessential. The question now is. can you define uncssentials ?* 
LIEUT. KEVIN O'TOOLE, '43 

1st. Lieut. Kevin O'Toole, '43, serv­ing with the Marines in the Pacific, is atnother of the heroic Chicago family that is contributing so tremendously to the success of World War II. Four of Kevin's brothers—three of them yradn­ates of Notre Dame—are in the armed forces. Another brother, Lieut. Bart O'Toole, *39, was killed in action in Europe on Nov, 10, 1944. One of Kev­in's three sisters is a WAV E officer. 
** 'Ihey are eertainly cute kids. I asked them to get some water to wash my boots, and in a few minutes tb ^ came bade with two-gallon backets stacked on top of heir heads, just as unconcerned as you please. Do yoa know they can sldn up a SO-foot palm and hack off top branches for va to plant into the top of the roof of oar wash shack? And only four years old. l^ey can't understand English, but they know what I want them to do. and get a big bang out of calling me Sunny.-' 
" *I could go on forever but we had two air raid alerts last night and these missions are pretty lagged phy^cally and mentally, so I ^ave got to set'some sleep."* 
Gloria goes on to say that she was waiting anxiously to hear if Sunny was able to meet up with his aunt and uncle who were interned at Santo Tomas since Manila fell three years ago. 
Vince C—risia wrote that he was pleased to 
.hear of Crei^tMi BlUler's appointment to Yale. He had just heard from Laa Ryaritas who is still stationed in Hawaii, where he is doing life goard du^, amonff other things. Vince has been offered another contract to play for the Boston Yanks in the National Professional Football league. 
Haward Marlaw has called up several times and I have had some nice Ions chats with him. Howie has been busy with a new addition to the fam­ily. He is working for one of the cities* larger radio staticMis. He as well as Harjorie Wiggins. Jack's sister, were the first to give me the good news that Jack was no longer missing bat a prisoner in Germany. 
I, like many other flights of Columbus mem­bers and fellow students, were saddened by the death of Ed Deyle and Jerry KiUigrcw, former high ranking officers for the Notre Dame council. 
Yoar correspondent has been informed that Lt. <JK) WiUiaHi Corrican Joiuuon received the Bronze Star for "meritorious achievement" in connection with "the assault and capture of an enemy held island" against the Japs on July 21. 1944. 
The citation received from the Commander-in-Chief of the United States Pacific Fleet reads: 
"For distingtiishin? himself by meritorious achievement on July 22, 1944. during- the assault and capture of an enemy held island. Although wounded and under heavy enemy fire, by coura­geous and capable direction he contributed mate­rially to the continued operations of the guns at his station. His conduct throughout distin­guished him amontr those performing duties of the same character.'* 
Bill has also been awarded the Purple Heart Medal for wounds received in action at landing . operations at Guam. 
Mr. Fearon corrected a false report that Jack was missing in action, and goes on to give us this bit of news about him: 
"Every time I read your contribution to the Notre Dame 'Alumnus.* -it brings memories of that Sunday in September, 1943, when I saw you boys graduate. .. . I was surprised to read in the December 'Alumnus' that my son. Jack, was missing in France. And, while, no doobt. Jack will correct this when he writes to you. I want to hasten 'to say that the report is incorrect, thank God. 
"After Jack was graduated with you in 1943, the Kavy sent him back to Notre Dame to the midshipmen school there. He was graduated an ensign and reported to his ship for active duty in the Pacific, where he has been since. During the 17 months he has been in the Pacific, he has seen much action, including-the battles of Leyte and Luzon. He was recently promoted to lieuten­ant (jg)." 
46 
During my father's extended illness I met Mr. Howell, father of Danny Howell, several times for extended chats. He tells me Danny is an ofii­cer on one of the ships in the South Pacific He has seen considerable action, being in on the ac­tion at Guadalcanal, Ungayen Gulf, Leyte. Caro­line Islands, and several other invasion points-He is overdue for a leave right now. 
.Here's what Jack Harrigan has to say in his V-mail note: **Ed Hickey was here Christmas day aboard his ship. Jerry Gaynor and Bill John­son were both around here on sub chrsers awhile back. Ed Marray was in here aboard a repair ship. I had several good times with John Mc­Grath and John BlacClements down in New Cal­edonia a month or so ago. Also saw Paul Malloy there; he is an observer on a bomber. BUI Carroll is now in OCS at Fort Benning." 
Now^ for a few^ home town notes. Bill Scanlan is bec(Hning another Vinoe Comlssa, a master sports promoter. He has enlarged and improved the Fort Sheridan athletic program. He has the' AVACS playing some migh^ fine basketball. He has taken over the athletic plant and is running it. He has basketball leagues of all classes play­ing in his post gym, and he has thrown in a few bo?ung shows, volley ball tournaments, badminton tourneys, and no one knows what next. 
Attention Jads Warner;—one of the copy boys threw your letter away and I never even had a chance to read it. so please write again. This won't happen a second time. 
Ens. Charlie Boiler is the officer in charge of an L.C.T. in the Pacific 
Pfc Joe Iduber, South Bend, was home on fur­lough from Baxter General Hospital, Spokane. Wash. Joe was wounded in the fighting in France last fall, but is making a normal recovery. 
Combat crewman of a B-24 Liberator group based in southern Italy. Itt Lt. Bill Early has fiown many missions against German targets. Bill, a 15th Air Force bombardier, arrived in Italy in the fall of 1944 and began flying combat missions immediately. In the air as long as eight hours at a time, he has taken part in bombing attacks on Munich, Vienna. Linz and Wiener Neustadt. Bill entered the air forces in January, 1943, and later won his wings at Victorville, Tex. 
Bill Johnson, Freeport, 111., has signed a seven-year movie contract with H.G.M., studio officials in Chicago announced in February. Bill was a junior in commerce when he enlisted in the air corps. After 26 months, he received a medical dis­charge in October. 1944. H.G.H. has titled him the "romantic find of the year." His contract came about as the result of his registering with u Chicago casting agency. 
Ed Roney says: "Jack Gar\-ey, '42. just got his transfer orders, effective soon as his relief ar­rives, which will take him back Stateside for awhile. He plans on getting married as soon as he gets his leave, which comes immediately. The girl is Betty Barrett of somewhere in New York." 
Ens. Bill Carrico. '44, FPO, San Francisco, wrote that he had met Lt. Jerry Gainer at a Sunday service. Jerry was on his way back to the States, having been overseas some 16 months. S/Sgt. Jim Downey, who bad flown 30 missions as a B-24 gunner during seven months in the European theater and holds the Air Medal with four clusters, was reassigned from the AAP Re­distribution Station in Miami Beach in late Feb­ruary. 
Where "they are: Pfc. Francis Keams, APO. * N.Y.C.: Lt. (i«) Jim Gallacfaer, c/o FPO, N.Y-C.: Lt. HE} Don Gmy, cjo FPO, San Francisco; Pvt. John Bchr, c/o APO. N.Y.C 
Promoted to lieutenant, jg: .Don Ileltzel. Don had been, in early February, in three invasions in the Philippines, — the battle of Ormoc Bay 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
among them. A Chicago "Sun" correspondent aboard Don's ship, wrote a gripping account of that battle and Don's part, as executive officer, in it Lt. (jg) Bill Johnson, Valley Stream. N. Y., has been awarded the Bronze Star medal for. "meritorious achievement" in connection with "the assault and capture of an enemy held is­land" against the Japs on July 21, 1944. Bill has also been awarded the Purple Heart medal for wounds received in action at landing operations at Guam. 
Three '43 men were welcomed on the campus in mid-February: newly commissioned 2nd Lt> Bob LeMensct en route to his home in Iron Houn­tain, Mich., on a ten-day furlough; Ens. Frank King, who had been in the Atlantic and at Pearl Harbor; and Ens. Frank Conaty, Whitewater. "Wis., who had served 13 months aboard ship in the Pacific with Halsey's third fleet and partici­pated in several invasions. * Frank said that Lt. (jg) Ed Rowan, '35, was on the same ship. 
Jim Hadigan, Little Rock, Ark-, is an account­ant with Hasktns and Sells, public accountants. Ill W. Monroe St. Chicago 3. 
1944 ^^'^ ^^^^ ^ Lynch, USA 
• ^ Genera! Hospiul, Ward 8-9, Camp Pickett, Va. 

From John Lyndi: Bill Dooley is the cause of this column's chat­ter. In case you've forgotten, he's one of the big­wigs in the Alumni Oflice. Notre Dame. Last week he wrote: "Copy for the April 'Alumnus' will be due here March 15. In case we forgot to tell you. you are the new secretary of the class of *44." With so many overseas and going over, he's apparently been waiting for some fortunate one to come back. Well, I'm back, even if a litle worse for wear. It's been five months since I was wounded, but 1 haven't been out of bed yet to €ee if I could walk again. And by the looks of things, I've still a couple more months before I can set both feet on the floor. But this hospital is a great im­pi'ovement over the one in Naples. No more de­hydrated food and C rations. And then we have the WACs, both of camp headquarters and the hcspital, who visit the wards as regularly as clockwork. Yes. it's nice to be home. Jerry Skofronick, who is with the 2nd signal f'crvice battalion in Washington, D.C. writes: **I assume that my last letter telling of my en* gagement reached you in Italy. It's been offidal for almost two months now. I had a seven-day furlough in February during which time Pat came to Milwaukee to meet my parents and some of ihe relatives. . . . J<rfin Hidcey still has his Hawaiian address. Creorge diarters is in the Signal Corps in Missouri. Mike Pessemier has me stumped. Until very recently I heard from him frequently. He was doing a number of things and h::d his fingers in many pies. At one time, with proper permission, he addressed a letter to oer­t :in Washington War Department oflicials with .^^veral suggestions concerning the 30 Cal. light machine gun and an idea for a new mortar de­sign. He applied and was accepted for OCS but later held back because of his eyes. If I remem­her rightly, Mike was one of the infamous ERC gang. Well, I don't know of any of us yet who h.-.s made OCS." A little social news now, and then back to things military. All this has been lettered to Italy and back again, so it might not be news to some of you. Bob Fisher was married in Detroit in January, shortly before assignment to his ship. Bob Donne took the fatal step at Notre Dame with Father Carey officiating. And from the "Holy Cross Courier," alumnae magazine of St. Mary's (they say it's still there): "Mary Jane Cullinan's engagement to James. J. Kane, N.D. '44. has been formaWy announced in Chicago, 
though no date for the wedding has been set. Pat Marshall's engagement to William BL Hicfcey, 
N.D. '44, is also current news." Just by chance I came by this "Courier" item. I'm not on the mailing list. From Orange, Texas, Jim Cunningham sends a short note: "Here I sit trying to get the gear organized for a new destroyer. , . , We're headed for duty in the Pacific" The Notre Dame Qub of Detroit sends a serv­ice paper around the circuit. We'll steal an item from that now. John Anbnt writes from the Pacific: "Jim Byrne, '43. is now on a sub-chaser and at the last word Bob Fisher was on a DE in the Atlantic As yet, I haven't bumped into Dave Raney, although we have been roaming all over the Pacific in the pnst months. This duty aboard a transport is very interesting and excit­ing; as we are always in on the invasion on *D' day." John's brother was killed in Holland this 
winter; I know all our prayers will be appre­ciated. 
The Communion breakfasts of the Detroit Club owe part of their success to John Morris, who assists his brother George, *40, with the arrange­ments. Father John Lane, CS.C, celebrated a solemn high Mass for the club in December. 
Mrs. Edmund P. Joyce, mother of Lyle Joyce, sends word that Lyle is still in New Caledonia. She doesn't mention Jim Crowley this time, but the last we .heard he was there too. She does say that Jack WaeUle in the European theatre, had trench foot. We had heard earlier that Jack had been wounded. Maybe he'll, write to let us know which it is and how's he's coming along. 
I'm expecting a letter from Chack Patterson any day now. It has been some time since I knew Chuck's whereabouts, but he was in Detroit last week, where he called but found the family out. Apparently he's back from the Pacific where he saw service with the Navy Air Corps. 
That blonde nurse has just brought the eve­ning mail, and this time it's very productive. Jim Canningham, in a letter that pre-dates the one above, writes: "Spent the summer in Boston at Harvard Supply School with Bill Mulligan, Ed Monahan and Boh ReiUy. The latter two went to amphibs in the Pacific, and I believe Bill is now on a ship in the Pacific I've been here in Orange since Nov. 10 and have a darn swell time. After we get this destroyer on the salt water we'll have 24 months of plenty rugged duty. We don't expect to be under way until April. Besides all the supplies (excluding ordnance and medical). I'm charged with the disbursing of all monies, including pay, all feeding of the crew, the ship's store, and all service activities including laundry and barber shop. The biggest headache is dis­bursing, since a supply officer is personally liable for all funds under his direction. . . . Brock Lynch, *45. and I got together often in Boston. He's in the Navy at Yale Med. Frank English is an infantry lieutenant about to head overseas. Bah Kcyndda had Frank for a company officer when he went through basic at Camp Croft. Saw Jim Clark often at Harvard. We were in a bar one night and 23-year-old Jim had a row with the 'tender who would sell him no brew. Jim had nothing to prove his age. . . . Had a nice Christ­mas card from his mom. Sure can remember some of her good cooking." 
TTiat last goes for me too. The Italian spaghetti is just spaghetti. Army chow Is just chow. 
lliat letter Jerry Skofronidc referred to was in tonight's mail along with Jim's. Both had been to Italy and back. Jerry writes: "At George­town last May I saw Bill Kcllo and Bill Clarke. IfoUo was a midshipman taking a medical course, and Clarke was there for the same course under army supervision. Both had completed their soph­cMQore courses at that time so by now, under the accelerated set-up, they should be getting ready for graduation. .. . A recent letter from Father 
Teske stated that Chnck Umiela fought in the 
recent battle of the Philippines. Tommy Shell-
worth is over in that area but there was no 
recent news of him. . . . Sohn Hidcey informs 
me from Pearl Harbor that he. too, gave his one­
and-only a Hng for Christmas. She's a Bostonian 
whom he met while taking his V-7 at Harvard." 
And that's how things are with the class of 
'44» as of the Ides of March. We're waiting to 
hear from more of you. Don't let us down. 
Lt. Ray Kiika, Frederick Army Air Field, Okla­
homa, was the star of the field's powerful basket­
ball team this past season. 
Henry Sallivan has been awarded the Air Hedal 
by the fifteenth Air Force, for "meritorious 
achievement in aerial flight" in Italy. Hank is a 
member of one ot the Air Force's finest P-51 
Mustang fighter groups, having over 400 air vic­
tories to its credit. 
A mighty inspiring letter received from Sgt. John Ahem's father, penned Christmas day, re­vealed that Bud had "twenty-five missions over Mr. Hitler's country as a radio gunner." 
For performing a "particularly perilous and hazardous mission" ahead of the front lines, which contributed to the success of the Marianas campaign, 2nd Lt. Ted Toole, L.I., N. Y., has been aivarded the Silver StaV Medal. The action occurred on Unian last July and involved pene­tration of the Japanese lines at considerable risk. 
Due to injuries sustained in France. Pvt. Harry Lavery is recovering in Vaughn General Hospital, Hines, 111. Larry Reynolds is with the Diamond Crystal Co.. Chicago, as a salesman. Ens. Dan Waterhary is division engineering officer of the N'aval Air Station. Corpus Christi, Tex. Joe Nash has been commissioned a second lieutenant at Fort Benning, Ga. 
CpL Dick Brydgesv Big Island, Va., has entered the field artillery OCS at Fort Sill. Okla. Joe Ncofeld, a sergeant, is in Germany. Now a mem­ber of the Marine invasion team battling on bloody Iwo Jtma, Pfc. Bill Smyth, Cincinnati, was a member of a Marine football squad that played through an unbeaten seven-game schedule during the past season in the Pacific. 
Two of football's brighter lights reminisced about their days at N.D. recently when Navy Lt. Frank Leahy visited Marine 2nd Lt. Angeio BertelU on a Central Pacific island. Bert was Inter on Iwo Jima. 
Ens. John Coleman in mid-February had a FPO address in New Orleans. 
1945 and Later 
David R. Condon, The Chicago Trib­
une, Chicago, III. 

Ist Lt. Georce Nelson, Red Bank, N. J., with '11 missions to his credit, is the holder of the Air Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters and the Presidential Group citation. He is with the ninth air force in France and a pilot on a B-26 Ma­rauder. John Lncas. Wadsworth. O.. was pro­moted to first lieutenant while serving on the Fifth Army front in Italy. John is now a recon­naissance officer with the 85th "Custer" Infan­try Division, for a field artillery battalion. For­merly he was an executive officer, Pfc. Jack Terry, Syracuse. N. Y., has an APO out of New York City. 
Reported missing over Germany last May. Lt. Danny 0*ConneU and his crew did not turn up until September, when the Allies took Belgium. They were very much alive. Their plane had been forced down over that country, where natives were persuaded to befriend them, despite-the. fact that a garrison of Germans were loieated in the same village. The family who put up Danny lived next door to the mess hall of the Germans. 
Needless to say. Danny did not wander out in the daytime. The people, though poor, were extremely kind. They obtained clothes for him by threaten­ing to expose a tailor who had a little black market racket of his own. 
S 2jc Joe La Fortune. Tulsa, began training in weather observation at the Navy Aerographer's School of the Naval Air Station' at'Lakdiurst. 
N. J. Bob Warrick, who was inducted in Novem­ber, finished his basic training at Fort Knox. Ky., and has been certified for OCS. Another as­signee for OCS is Joe O'Brien, who has left Cor­nell University and is now at Farris Island. S. C. 
Bob Terry is now an apprentice seaman in the Navy, but he is still studying at St. Louis Uni­versity med school. Also a med student, Pfc. Fred Haiirer is attending Marquette University. Jahn CarvU, who was wounded at Orleans at the time of the St. Lo break-through, is hospitalized at McClusky. Tex. FyO John Atwater, St. Augustine, Fla.. a Mustang fighter pilot, is flying bomber-escort and strafing missions over Germany from an Eighth Air Force Fighter Station in England. 
Pfc Harry Osborne, Elgin. III., and Pfc. Fred Talento, Rye. N. Y., know what it means to be outnumbered by the enemy in a battle, and-come through with a victory. Ihe two soldiers were on a patrol about 300 yards behind the enemy lines when the Germans discovered them. ITtey were under small arms, machine gun and mortar fire all of the way back through the German lines and across "no-man's land," yet they returned suc­cessfully with information of vital importance to their unit. Neither was hurt. They are mem­bers of a battalion headquarters company of the 78th "Lightning" Division. [The story above was in type before the Alumni Office received the ^vord of Harry's death—Eds.j 
From David Condon: 
^Vith little, if any, apology io Mr. Dunne and his legendary character. Mr. Dooley has been threatening mayhem, and enough etc. etc., to cover a multitude of sins, if I don't come through with a little "Alumnus"—copy on time! So. with Senor Lonergan looking on enviously and wondering how one could amass such a collec­tion of bills, press releases, clippings, and a few scattered notes from N. D. buddies, I'll sort through the mail and see what goes on. 
First off—a card from Bill Dooley, containing the aforementioned threat. Second, a letter from Jim Armstrongt denying half the reports I have previously published. Third, the mail from the rest of the United States and foreign ports. 
Harry Lavery writes from Hines hospital, and relates how he landed on D-day and three days later was run over and suffered a fractured leg. He's been almost nine months in bed and would like to hear from some of the fellows. He says Ed Hoban. '45. and Jim Leonidas* *40. are at the hospital with the physical reconditioning unit, and know enough holds to mnke a professional wrestler jealous. Harry says he heard from his old roomie. Dan Stevens, who was in the Philip­pines at the time. 
Chuck Pickhardt, writing from Wilmington. Del., says he has been out of contact with the boys, and that he is becoming tired of pounding on a t3T>ewriter for all these months. He wants to get the address of G. V. Fonk, and would like to hear about Jidinny- Clyne and Jade Utx. He also wants Jim 0*Dea*s address. Chuck did hear from Tom Daffy. Said he had heard Tom had gone across on a B-17. as a bombardier. Other info furnished by the \yilmtngton boy says that Ted Cammings was in on the Xeyte deal and that Hank Adams was at naval school at Great Lakes. 
It's tough news that comes from Lattimer, Pa. Thoma* E. Doogherty, remembered as "lacker" when he roomed in Cavanaugh and Dillon, has been repcK'ted miasang in action over Genamay. He was co-pilot on a B-17. When Lake w%ji—^ Jifaa Haisaa. Sa a Aiktlm, and Jiai WUte read this, they'll be willing to bet that Tom is safe and probably selling the Nazis subscriptions to the Book of the Month Ghib. 
Called RaaaM Carter'a folks the other niflbt. and he had been writing them Iroxn the Philip­pines. Bab Craft's mother likewise had heard from Bobbie in the Hawaiian islands. 
Frank Stwnpf, who writes a letter dated March 7, goes way back to last April, when be says he was one of the few men to graduate from Wellesly collesc. He says that Dnuid Davis (of the El'Cu)itan elnb) was there with him. and they have been together most of the time since^ Frank says before he left the states he saw 3mA Crahan and Bitt O'Brien in Norfolk, and he said he saw Jadt Htduy in Pearl Harbor, as does everyone who passes through there. THH Shcll­werth was in Peari Haifaor and Frank just missed connections witii BUI' TilWt.. 
After his arrival out at the censor knows where, Frank met Jsin CBaarke in the officers' dob, and later got together with Bennie Benkdli. Bonnie had just left Jim Mcadwr. Jae Van Dyke (Flrank says) was flyinff B-24's over Italy, and Jain Prince was heading for the sea after beinff on shore, du^ in San Francisco. Oidc Dacrmer was in San Bernardino the last Frank heard, and Tarn Brennan was up around Alaska. Bonicelli told Frank that Bay Kaka was stationed in Kansas. Jack Wattera puportedly was leaving Florida for sea duty. Frank says he almost for­got to mention It, and in the last line adds that Lt. <jc) Beb Nalan is his shipmate. 
Jack De^ran aent a card while sij^tseeing in Belgium, and will be pleased to know that I have found the post office address of Mr. WiOiam 
O. Shaaaimn* .who as a lieutenant attached to the admiral's staff in Washington, is far removed from history classes at N.D., but not too removed to be working on a naval warfare history. 
Bill Brawn writes from the seas, and he says he is looking out for Jahn BleGawan, ^o m he has heard also is angry at the Japs and in that neighboriiood. Bill says he can't write much on a V-mail letter, because he has. no typewriter, so let's it go at that, althous^ he promises to use two sheets of paper if anything significant pops. 
PUI Keen writes and at least his "Hello Dave" passed the censor, as also his remarks that he took basic training with Crist Hcrins, BIO Gw­man (not the Headville boy), and Lim Harninc Phil says that Vince Camima's brother (no first name) is quite the Big Han. and in charge of Normandy Football league. He says he also ran into Herihg again, this time in FVance. The way they met was rather interestins—when they fin­ished basic together. Crist went to clerical school and Phil went into a tank outfit. They lost contact. One day. Phil went to Mass in an apple orchard outside Rennes. He thought he recognized the chaplain's assistant immediately, but Cnst did not recognize Phil until Phil was receivincr com­munion. Crist let out a gasp, and after mass, the Rover boys met for a Ions discussion of the old days. 
Tammy Ward is in France and BaD Daacherty still writes from the South Pacific, so they tell me. 
Lt. Bill Rich, now in the merchant marine, is back at his home in New. York City for a brief rest after a series of amazing experiences. His first ship was torpedoed, he was picked up by the Germans, put in a lifeboat by them, and picked up by an American destroyer. The next ship on which Bill saw duty was also torpedoed. He was again picked up and returned to this country. He wrote' to Crciflitmi MiCttr announcing his approaching marriage to a former St- Hair's girt 
At lad! 

The NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
TT^OR many years we have discussed the -*- hope of securing a good representative film of the Notre Dame campus that will tell the story of Notre Dame's academic program, physical facilities, and natural beauty to distant alumni, to high schools, to friends, and even to those who visit the campus frequently but never tire of it. 
Now, this picture has been taken. The first copy shows that the modest enterprise has met with a success greater than we had hoped. 
Additional copies have been ordered and (subject to government regulations) should be available by May 1. 
The picture, 16mm color film with sound track, was photographed by Charles Chap­man, Evanston, 111., who has made similar pictures for a number of universities. Rich­ard Sullivan, '30, has written a fine script for the accompanying narration, which tells in just over 30 minutes an interesting and comprehensive story of Notre Dame. Details of the picture were supervised by Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, '06, J. Ar­thur Haley, '26, and J. E. Armstrong, '25. 
While we cannot promise definite dates at this writing, we will try to see that those Clubs desiring the picture receive it at the earliest possible date. We would like to have Father Frank Goodall, C.S.C. or Bill Dooley or myself bring it to your Club personally. 
And we would like, when the picture is in your community, to have interested high school students see it, because it tells a story of the University in which they will all be interested. 
The film is contained in one 1200-foot reel which requires (they tell the Editor) a long-arm 16mm projector with sound equipment. Since it is practically impos­sible to carry this type of equipment (or get it for that matter) under present con­ditions, we are asking that the Clubs ar­range for the necessary equipment, which is usually to be found in high schools or hotels where commercial or educational films are frequently shown. This will facil­itate our coverage. 
Inquiries concerning this film should be addressed to Jam^s E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Datne, Jnd. 






