The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
May, 1930 257 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
|a|llUM«iniltlllHlltllll IMIIIIllllllllMtlMUMIIIHIM IIIIIIIIIIIIIDllllllIltllltllllltlllllf 
13 •"——­


IN THIS ISSUE 
1930 Commencement Program Frontispiece Hon. William P. Breen, '77, Dies 259 Secretary Attends Two National Meets 261 Have You Voted? 263 Editorial 264 Rev. Henry Kemper, '05, Took N. D. With Him 265 Living Endowment Plan Is Much Alive 266 Athletics, by John Kiener, '32 267 President's U. N. D. Night Address 269 The Alumni Clubs 271 The Alumni 276 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni 
Association of the University of Notre Bame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The 
subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 2S cents. The 
annwnl alumni dues of 95.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. 
Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post office at Notre 
Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1897. All correspondence should 
be addressed to The Ifotre Dame Alumnus, Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDEauTiON 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor HARLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration BIdg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
MARK M. FOOTE, '73 Honorary President I JOHN W. EGGEMAN, '00 President | JAMES E . DEERY, '10 Vice-President i JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary = WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer = ALFRED C. EYAN, '20 Director I GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 Director | 
M. HABBY MILI£B, '10 -Director i 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director | DON M. HAMILTON, '12 (etc officio) Director | 
Tioelfth 
Annual Retreat for Laymen 
1930 
Opens at the 


University of Notre Dame TMirsday Evening, 
August Seventh 
at Eight o'clock {Central Staitdard Time) 
and Closes 

Stmday Morning, August Tenth 
Retreat Master 


Rev. Richard Collentine 
O. o. O. 

Write early for information to 
Rev. Thomas Kearney, 


c. s. c. 

Director of Laymen's Retreats Notre Dame, Indiana 
yr to one of our Lay Secretaries: 

Lyman D. Dickens 
Catholic Community Centre, Fort Wayne, Ind. 

Paul E. Jitst 
33 Park View Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 


A. J. Dooley 

120 So. LaSalle St., Chicago, IlL 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiilitti)««iiaaaiitii*tiiii«tlltt«Q 



Eighty-Sixth Annual Commencement 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (Central Standard Time) 
Friday, May 30 

Registration, Alumni Office, Administration Building. All day. 9:30—Memorial Field Mass for Deceased Alumni, War Dead— Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C, Celebrant Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C, Address Color Guard, Company "D", 152nd Infantry, South Bend Firing Squad, Company "I", 152nd Infanti-y, South Bend Dix Reunion Classes in Attendance. 2:30—Baseball, Noti-e Dame vs. Wisconsin, Cai-tier Field. 6:30—Various Reunion Dinners as arranged by the Classes. 6:30—Concert, Universitj' Band, Main Quadrangle. 8:00—University Theatre presents "Journey's End" in Washington Hall. Golf for Alumni all day. University Golf Course. 
Saturday, May 31 

9:30—Senior Class Last Visit, Sacred Heart Church. 
9:30—5-Year Reunion Golf Tournament, Class of 1925, University Golf Course. 10:00—Senior Class Day Exercises, Awarding of Honors, Washington Hall. 12:00—Luncheon and First Annual Meeting of the Local Clubs Council, Lay Faculty Dining 
Room, University Dining Halls. 2:00—^Inter-Club Golf Tournament, sponsored by the N. D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 3:00—Golf Match, Notre Dame Varsity Team vs. the University of Detroit. 6:00—Annual Alumni Banquet, East Hall, University Dining Halls. 6:30—Concert, Main Quadrangle, Band of the Studebaker Corporation. 8:00—Concert, Washington Hall, University Glee Club. 
Golf for Alumni all day. University Golf Course. 

Sunday, June 1 

8:00—5-Year Reunion Memorial Mass, Class of 1925, Sorin Chapel— 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C, Celebrant. 8:30—^Academic Procession, Administi-ation Building to Sacred Heart Church. 9:00—Solemn Pontifical Mass, Sacred Heart Church— 
Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, Celebrant. Rev. John J. Burke, C. S. P., Baccaluareate Moreau Seminary Choir, Music. 
Mass will be followed by the Blessing of the Senior Flag. 11:00—Senior Flag Raising, Main Quadrangle. 12:00—Monogi-am Luncheon, Lay Faculty Dining Room, University Dining Halls. 
2:00—^Annual Alumni Meeting, Washington Hall. Induction of the Class of 1930. 4:30—^Awarding of Degrees, University Gymnasium— Commencement Address, Hon. Claude G. Bowers. 
Golf for Alumni every day. University Golf Course. An Official Association Film vnW be made of the Commencement. 
Golden Jubilee Reunion, Class of 1880  Dix Reunions, Classes of 1878, 79, 80, 81  
Silver  Jubilee Reunion, Class of 1905  Dix Reunions, Classes of 1897, 98, 99, 1900  
Five Year Reunion, Class of 1925  Dix Reunions, Classes of 1916, 17, 18, 19  

Univei-sity Dining Halls Cafeteria open to the public, 6:30 a. m. to 9:30 p. m. daily. Rooms are available on the Campus for Alumni, without charge. The University Golf Course is for the use of Men Only. CENTRAL STANDARD TIME PREVAILS! 




THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. MAY, 1930 No. 9 
Honorable William P* Breen, '77, Dies In Fort Wayne 
Prominent and Loyal Ahimnus Dies April 22; Sei-ved Notre Dame Well Throiighout Long and Brilliant Life; Bequest of Quarter Million Dollars Per­
It was perhaps significant that 

April 21, 1930, Universal Notre Dame 
Night, was the last night on earth 
for the Honorable William P. Breen, 
A.B. '77; A.M. '80, and LL.D. '02. 
All of the things that the ideal 

Notre Dame man represents, Mr. 
Breen represented. All of the devel­
opment of Notre Dame in the last 
half century Mr. Breen not only wit­
nessed with keen interest but fostered 
in many ways. 
Mr. Breen had been a resident of Fort Wayne for sixty-seven years. At the time of his death he was senior partner of the law firm of Breen and Newkirk, and president of the Peoples Trust and Sa\-ings Com­pany. 
The Breen Medal has for years been the symbol of a high type of oratory at Notre Dame, the winners over the years having gone far be­yond campus fame to achieve the highest national oratorical honors. 
Sir. Breen was a charter member and first President of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, one of the outstanding movements in the financial history of Notre Dame. 
Death, which was due to heart dis­ease and dropsy, followed a long period of ill health. Since last No­vember Mr. Breen had been confined almost wholly to his home, but for weeks with indomitable perseverance visited his office an hour a day. Six weeks ago, however, at the beginning of the Lenten season his condition be­came more aggravated and he was confined to bed. Since then, despite all efi'orts of medical science, it was realized that he could not recover. He received the last rites of the Catholic Church March IS, when the end seemed imminent. He rallied at in­tervals, retaining his faculties, how­ever, through his long suffering, the end coming suddenly. While aware of his illness, few knew of its crit­ical nature. 
Mr. Breen was born in Terre Haute February 13, 1859, the only child of 

petuates This Sei'vice. 
i 

^^^^m^' 


W^^P^^^H 
^^MHH^^^^^I 
m


^^•I^^ 
vTr^fl^^^^^HRf^^^^H 

^^^^^^p4 
i• 



^^^B^' 
Kfi'.' ^^^^^^k 
^^^^^^^^^^^H 
1i 

^Hl 
HoxoKABLE WILLIAM P. BREEN, '77 
James and Margaret (Dunne) Breen, both natives of Ireland, bom in 1820 and 1821, respectively. In 1S40 his father at the age of 20 severed the ties which bound him to Erin and emigrated to America. After a brief residence in the east, he came west and settled in Terre Haute, where he remained until 1863 in which year the family moved to Fort Wayne, where they became pioneer members of the Cathedral of the Immaculate Concep­tion. 
William P. Breen began his educa­tion at the Brothers' school in the parish, conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross, and followed this with a course at the University of Notre Dame where he was graduated in 1877, receiving the degree of Bach­elor of Arts. 
Upon his return to Fort Wayne he entered upon a course in the study of law in the offices of Coombs, Morris and Bell, and in 1879 was admitted to the bar of Indiana. At that time Mr. Breen was only 20 years of age. 
From the beginning his career in law until November 15, 1882, the date of the death of Judge Warren H. With­ers, Mr. Breen was associated with Judge Withers in a successful prac­tice of his profession, and then for eleven years, he continued an individ­ual practice of increasing importance, until, in 1893, he formed a co-partner­ship with John Morris, Jr., son of Judge Morris. 
This partnership continued for many years, recognized as one of the most influential in Indiana. More recently it was dissolved, Mr. Breen since having associated with him, James R. Newkirk, Henry Hasley be­ing admitted to the firm during the past year. 
No member of the bar con­ferred greater honor or distinction upon the profession in Allen County and the state of Indiana. He was president of the State Bar Association from 1903-1904, a member of the ex­ecutive committee of the American Bar Association, 1903-1906, a dele­gate to the Universal Congress of Lawyers and Jurists, in 1904 at St. Louis, under appointment of Presi­dent Roosevelt. 
Although always a vigorous advo­cate of Democratic principles, Mr. Breen never sought political honors. His activities were recognized in his election as a delegate to the National Democratic convention at St. Louis in 1916, and a member of the committee to visit President Woodrow Wilson at Shadow Lawn, N. J., in September, 1916, to give him official notification of the action of the convention. 
May 28, 1884, Mr. Breen was united in marriage with Miss Odelia Phil­lips, daughter of Bernard P. and Car­oline (Vogel) Phillips, prominent early residents of Ft. Wayne. Besides the widow, Mrs. Odelia Breen; Sister Imelda of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, St. Mary's, Notre Dame, and Sister Regina of the Sisters of Char­ity, St. Louis, Mo., first cousins; Sister Marie Patrice of China, and Sister Veronica Marie, Vincennes, Ind., both members of the Sisters of Providence, second cousins, are the nearest relatives. 
Mr. Breen was a Catholic layman of national prominence. He was a member of the parish of the Cathe­dral of the Immaculate Conception, the Holy Name Society, Sacred Heart Lea^e, Fort Wayne Council No. 451, Knights of Columbus, Division No. 1, Ancient Order of Hibernians. He was also a member of the Catholic Club in New York. 
A gifted speaker, Mr. Breen sought to encourage this talent in others. His keen power of thinking, his ver­satility in speech, his eminent ability in treating questions of importance had given him a place of prominence among the public speakers of Indiana. His opinions and co-operation were ever sought by those who felt the need of the co-operation of a man whose word found weight with the many who sought the truth along many lines of endeavor. 
A man of high ideals, he was kindly but firm; genial but not fulsome; clean in mind and heart, ever con­siderate. Intellectual to a high de­gree, endowed with great powers of analysis and comprehensive mental scope, he was ever modest and un­pretentious. 
Mr. Breen had the distinction of having welcomed upon their return, ali of the Fort Wayne bishops after their trips to Rome, making his last public appearance in tlois capacity, June 19, 1929, when at the steps of the Cathedral of the Immaculate Con­ception, speaking in behalf of the Catholics of city and diocese, and be­speaking also the good will of the citizens in general, he welcomed Rt. Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., to his episcopal city. 
The deceased was a staunch advo­cate in every movement for the sub­stantial betterment of the community. He was a member of the Fort Wayne Chamber of Commerce, of the Coun­try Club, a member and for a time an officer of the Fort Wayne-Notre Dame Club. 
University Is Beneficiary 
In death, as in life, Mr. Breen was thoughtful and generous for Notre Dame. His estate is valued at $578, 
000. Of this amount, after a few specific bequests, Notre Dame is to receive one-half the residue, estimated at approximately §200,000. This sum will come to the University at the death of Mrs. Breen, who survives her husband. 
Of this bequest, §50,000 is to be used for the founding of the Martin 

J. Regan Chair of Public Speaking, honoring the Rev. Martin J. Regan, C.S.C, prefect of discipline at Notre Dame for 25 years. The balance of the amount is to be used for the en­dowment of chairs in the College of Law. It is the first large bequest to Notre Dame from any source, and it is gratifying to the University and to Notre Dame men that such a bequest should come from a Notre Dame man. 
Mr. Breen was buried April 25, from the Cathedral of the Immacu­late Conception. The funeral was one of the largest ever held in Fort Wayne. Distinguished prelates and educators, men ranking high in the legal, banking and medical profes­sions, civic officials, industrial heads, religious community members, and citizens irrespective of creed, united in their tribute of respect. 
Notre Dame was represented by the Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, Provincial of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross; Eev. John Cava­naugh, C.S.C, former president of the University; Rev. Michael Mul­caire, C.S.C, vice-president of the University; and Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, prefect of discipline of the University. 
The sermon of the Rev. Thomas M. Conroy follows: 
"The ceremony in which we are engaged is brief, for reasons that are easy to learn," said the speaker. "Yet, the essential thing has been done. In David's language coming from the Old Testament, we begged for mercy. In seeking mercy we recognize our responsibility, 'Have mercy on me, 0 God, according to Thy great mercy, and according to the multitude of Thy mercies, blot out our iniquity.' That plea which is at once a religion, a philosophy, and an unfailing light upon life's pur­pose, was made to the Almighty as the body of our distinguished friend was carried in the direction of the high altar of this Cathedral. That same plea was laid upon the altar, close to the relics of the saints, who made the journey, in heroism and glory, from earth to eternity. We asked them to hold that holy and humble plea in their hands so that God would deign to see it. Having done that, human power and love had put forth their best and last effort in behalf of him for whom we are be­seeching mercy and eternal light and peace. 
"In the ceremonies of the Mass, the bread and wine are blessed. By Christ's warrant and power they are changed into His Body and Blood. On that same altar He becomes in­carnate. The same Christ Who walked in the flesh in far-off Judea is with us as the Redeemer and -•Vtoner, renewing the Last Supper and the Crucifixion upon Calvary so that the sons of men may find mercy and redemption. Now, Christ, the Priest, lifts our plea from the hands of these saints and supplicates God the Father to accept it as if it were Christ's Own. And from heaven comes the mercy that we prayed for, not in answer to any power within us, but in recognition of the Blood that was shed upon Calvary so that men might have life and have it more abundantly. 
"And in our consoling faith that God will grant our plea for mercy, sent up to Him through Christ in the Sacrifice of the New Testament, we bear back to mother earth to await the resurrection call, all that is mor­tal of the cultured and courteous and faithful William P. Breen. In our human w>ay, we linger, as his body becomes a tenant of the tomb, to ad­mire the precious qualities we all re­gret. A whole litany of adjectives would be required to sketch even dimly a career that was as edifjing as it was unusual. 
"The rich elements were so mixed in him that it is hard to separate one from the other for praise and empha­sis. In power and keenness of in­tellect his grandeur was admitted without debate. In the expression of that intellect, he poured forth the riches of it in so winning a way, so persuasively, with such dignity and elegance of diction and deportment that to all who knew him he was in­deed the Prince Charming of the written and spoken word. 
"Sincerity and truth saturated his thought, his language, his manner al­ways. There was strength in his cul­ture, and no weakness in his courtesy. It seemed that he was ever mature and finished. Real power arising from calm assurance in himself seemed to set him apart in any group. And yet this confidence in himself never had the ugly appearance of conceit. He was the strong man who could be elegant and delicate, and yet no one ever charged him with weak­ness. He appraised his own qualities and endowment at a high figure, but was never small or petty or green­
(Continued on Page 262) May, 1030 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 261 

Alumni Secretary Attends Two National Meets 
Amencan Alumni Council and Catholic Federation Meet In East; Noticeable and Significant Upivard Trend In Alumni Affairs; Notre Dame Honored By Offices in Both Organizations. 
If this issue of the ALUMNUS is a little bit late and a little loose in its organization, blame it on the largest injection of the serum of higher education that the Editor has ever taken in one shot. 
The fourth annual convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federa­tion was held in Washington, D. C, April 25, 26 and 27. Headquarters was at the Mayflower Hotel. Thanks to the generosity of Congressman William J. Granfield, '13, who left Washington the 25th for his home in Connecticut, the Notre Dame repre­sentative occupied the Granfield head­quarters in the Ambassador, near the Mayflower, rather than an adjacent park bench. In passing, a bill was passed in Congress on the afternoon of the 25th through the efforts of Congressman Granfield that brought federal navigation aid to the Con­necticut River in his district for the first time in fifty-one years. 
Dr. James A. Flynn, president of the Notre Dame Club of the District of Columbia, was chairman of the banquet arrangements. The New York Club, member in its own name, was represented by John Balfe, who was secretary to the Federation last year, Frank Dufiicy and Charley De-Barry, who were in charge of the banquet decorations. 
Much of the Convention was of course devoted to the very important problem of organizing the alumni of the Catholic colleges. Notre Dame, one of the pioneers among the Cath­olic group, has been followed closely by Holy Cross of Worcester, Mar­quette, and St. Mary's of California. Fifty colleges were represented at the Convention and there is a very strong indication that organization during the current year will be more wide­spread and intensive than ever be­fore. 
Outstanding addresses at the Con­vention were made by Michael Wil­liams, editor of the Cominoniveal; Ed­ward A. Fitzpatrick, dean of the graduate school of Marquette; Wil­fred B. Shaw, director of alumni rela­tions of the U. of Michigan; Kev. Coleman Nevils, S.J., president of Georgetown; John G. Olmstead, Ober­lin, since elected president of the American Alumni Council; Very Eev. Bede Jarrett, O.P., prior provincial of the Order of Preachers, London, Eng­land; Hon. James M. Beck, former solicitor general of the U.S.; and Eev. William Kerby, D.D. of the Cath­olic U. 
Profound consideration of alumni possibilities by educators, by alumni, and by alumni officers was the key­note of the convention. Catholic or­ganization among alumni is much less developed than among the secular schools. But indications following the Catholic convention are that impor­tant steps toward speeding up the vital organization will be taken the coming year. Eealization of the pos­sibilities of such organization for both schools and alumni e.\ceeded any previous outline or discussion. The concept of the alumni organization among the Catholic colleges has prof­ited by the experience of the secular schools and there is every reason to believe that Catholic alumni will re­ceive much more benefit immediately from their associations than have other alumni whose associations have had to pioneer. 
The A. A. C. Convention 
From Washington the Notre Dame Secretary proceeded to Amherst, Mass., to attend the seventeenth an­nual convention of the American Alumni Council, composed of the alumni executives of all of the lead­ing men's and women's colleges and universities in this country and Can­ada. A stop-over in New York was cut regrettably short by a meeting of the Board of Directors and of the District Directors of the Council which preceded the Convention. How­ever, the Secretary had the pleasure of short visits with Paul McGannon, a member of the Board of Directors of the Association; Hugh O'Donnell, president of the New York Club; George Shuster and Vince Engels, of the editorial staff of the Common­weal, whose offices are in the Grand Central Building; and with Dan O'Neil, a member of the Board of the New York Club and a classmate of the Secretary, and with John P. Tray-nor, also a classmate. The pleasure 
«i 

THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS May, 1930 
of these few contacts aggravated the disappointment of missing the many. 
The meeting in Amherst, wth Am­herst, Massachusetts Agriculture Col­lege, Smith and Mt. Holyoke Colleges as hosts, was one of the outstanding meetings of the .4merican Alumni Council. One hundred and fifty col­leges and universities were repre­sented by more than two hundred delegates. The program of the tech­nicalities of alumni organization, con­ducted by the various talented mem­bers of the Council who have achieved success in the many phases of alumni endeavor, was jewelled with addresses by the many prom­inent educators representing the host and neighboring institutions. 
-A.ddresses during the convention were made by President Mary Wooley of Mt. Holyoke; President William Neilson of Smith; President Arthur Pease of Amherst; President Eoscoe Thatcher of M.A.C., and President Ernest Hopkins of Dartmouth. Mrs. Calvin Coolidge was guest of honor at a formal dinner given at Mt. Holyoke. 
The seriousness of alumni effort has never been brought out more ef­fectively than at the 1930 Conven­tion. Men who have spent years in the work reported that everjTvhere there is a wholesome and significant reaction among alumni and their col­leges which indicates to their satis­faction that the years of effort on the part of alumni officers has finally brought about a mutually enjoyable and profitable relationship. 
-4.dult education, the movement by which it is hoped that alumni can continue throughout life to benefit from the intellectual contact \vith their colleges, was foremost among the topics of discussion. 
The realization of methods by which the alumni can be of material assistance to their colleges was also discussed and very much approved. 
Discussion • of a centralization of many of the objectives of alumni ef­fort, through organized stimulus of public interest in higher education and other general appeals was pro­posed and met a favorable reaction that will be discussed in detail later. 
Reports at the Convention indicated that alumni organization in very re­cent years had been of inestimable benefit to the colleges in meeting the sudden surge toward these institu­tions following the war. The edu­cators addressing the Convention showed unmistakably that there is a reciprocal appreciation, and an exec­utive anxiety to pro^^de for the alum­ni whate%-er advantages the college is able to offer. 
N. D. Honored At both Conventions the Notre Dame Association was honored by offices conferred upon the represen­tative. At the Federation meeting in Washington, the Notre Dame Secre­tary was reappointed Director for the Middle West and was elected a vice-president of the Federation. John T. Balfe, '20, was elected to the Exec-ut\'e Committee and Frank Dufficy, 
'24, was made a member of the Board of Trustees. 
At Amherst the term of the Notre Dame representative as vice-presi­dent of the Council expired and his resignation as Director of District Five, a position he had held for more than two years, was accepted. At the closing meeting of the Board of Di­rectors he was chosen as Director for the 1931 Convention of the Council, to be held next Spring in Atlanta, Ga. 
Conclusion 

11 a personal opinion is permissible, the Secretary would like to say that attendance at these conventions has brought two convictions: that alumni organization, with its new expan­sion and implications, is very much worth while for both school and alumni; and that Notre Dame, with all our diificulties and imperfections, is nevertheless progressing along the lines that the older associations have drawn from their years of experi­ence, adapted to our Catholic College needs. 
HON. WILLIAM P. BREEN, '77, DIES IN FORT WAYNE 
(Continued from PaRO 260) 

eyed with jealousy when making an estimate of the ambitions or accom­plishments of his neighbor or rival. Immeasurably beyond and above these sterling traits of character, was his faith. 
"Indeed his faith seemed to be the center of his other qualities. It cast its rays into every nook and corner of his experience, and like the setting sun that gilds the hill-tops, his faith made golden and gave beauty to the life that deserves our most generous admiration. His faith was like gran­ite, but with a warmth that granite 
does not have. It was not a mere medley of opinions, laid out like a checker board, on which his mind jumped from place to place, enjoying a vanity that grows out of a mental agility, that is often confused with mental power. 
"With William P. Breen, faith was a gift of God, to be protected and cherished and exhibited as a convic­tion that clung to the very fibre of his soul. For him there were few problems, involving life and death and purposes and destinies and noth­ingness, and other mere names that men play with in a pride that pre­sumes to order God from His Own universe, and from the souls of men which He made and fashioned. God had spoken, Christ had appeared in the world as the divine Teacher. The Apostles and their successors were still walking along the highways and byways of life, scattering the words of eternal life, walking under the guidance of the Holy Spirit to the end of time, and they had the promise of Him Who sent them that He would be with them and the gates of hell would not and could not prevail against them. 
"There was the foundation on which Mr. Breen stood unwavering and unafraid. No wonder, then, that-we love to linger in admiration ere yet the mound rises above the face and form of a departed friend, linger­ing in our belief that where there is so much beauty and power and faith always to be seen, there must be other qualities hidden from us, to be revealed only to the ej'e of Him Who sees us and all within us. 'Blessed be the Lord God of Israel because He hath visited and wrought the redemp­tion of His people.' " 
A great concourse of people after the services at the Cathedral pro­ceeded to the Catholic cemetery where the body of Mr. Breen was laid to rest. 
The Very Rev. James Burns, Pro­vincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross, here pronounced the final ab­solution. 
Prominent Notre Dame alumni at­tending the last rites included Judge John W. Eggeman, Fort Wayne, president of the Notre Dame Alunmi Association and Byron V. Kanaley of Chicago, past president of the or­ganization. 
HAVE YOU VOTED? 
FiUKK E. HE2JING, '98 
South Bend, Ind., for President 

Ballots for the election of officers for the Association, 1930-31, were sent out the first of May. 
In order to save a great deal of time and several hundred dollars, the same mailing carried the literature and pledge cards for the Living En­dowment Plan. 
Some criticism has been offered of the identity of the voter. Under the present system, only the Alumni Office knows this identity. Returned envelopes are opened to separate the pledge cards. At the same time, the names are detached from the ballots and arranged alphabetically, accord­ing to the Association Constitution. And the Office is not officially con­cerned, except by a wholesomely curi­ous interest, in the outcome of the election. Information here goes no further. 
If a change is desired, an amend­ment to the Constitution is possible. The action last year and this was done to save the Association a very sub­stantial sum of money, and to save time for the tellers. 
If you haven't voted yet, hurry up. Don't wait until you come back for Commencement. 
And enclose your Living Endow­ment response,—whatever you can spare this year, from one to a thou­sand. 
THE CONSTITUTION 
"Article VII, Section 3: Any 

twenty-five members, not more than 
ten of whom shall reside in any one 
county, may, by petition addressed to 
the Secretary, make other nomina­
tions, providing this is done by filing 
same with the secretary not later than 
April 30th. Such nominations shall 
also be published in the ALUMNUS 
after they are received, as in the 
preceding section required.". 
"Article VII, Section 4: The names of all persons nominated shall be placed by the Secretary on a printed Ballot, in alphabetical order, without distinction as to method of nomina­tion, and one ballot, together with an envelope marked "Ballot," with lines for the signature and address of the voter, shall be mailed, on or before May 20th to each member entitled to vote." 
"This Ballot, when marked, shall be sealed in such envelope marked 'Bal­lot' upon which the voting member shall endorse his signature and last mail address, and mailed back to the Secretary of this Association, or to the Association itself, at Notre Dame, Indiana; or such Ballot so enclosed in a sealed envelope, and duly en­dorsed, may be delivered in person to the Secretary; but no such Ballot shall be received or counted unless the -same is delivered as above provided, by mail or in person, at or before the actual meeting, that is, the actual opening and convening of the annual meeting, and before the ballots are delivered to the tellers as herein pro­\ided. The Secretary, or some repre­sentative for him, shall be in attend­ance at the annual meeting at least thirty minutes before the convening of the same in order to receive any Bal­
lots tendered to him." 
JOHN L. CORLEY, '02 
St. Louis, Mo., for President 

"Article VII, Section 6: No Ballot shall be i-eceived or counted unless it is enclosed in a sealed envelope, marked 'Ballot,' with the name and address of the voting member clearly endorsed thereon, and delivered to the Secretary before the polls close." 
"Article VII, Section 8: A plurality of the votes cast shall elect." 
THE COJIJMITTEES The Committees are: (a) Grattan 

T. Stanford, '04, 45 Nassau St., New York City, chairman; Arthur E. Car­mody, '15, 819 Slattery Bldg., Shreve­port. La.; and Wendell T. Phillips, '12, care of Maginnis & Walsh, Archts., Boston, Mass.; (b) William P. Devine, '90, 925 Edgecomb Place, Chicago, HI., chairman; Francis P. Burke, '03, 2109 Grand Ave., Milwaukee, Wis., and Don P. O'Keefe, '04, Chevrolet Motor Co., General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich . (The committees are designat­ed a. and b. for reference only. They rank equally, and nominations are listed Avithout reference to which com­mittee made them.) 
]>]•*••• iiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
EDITORIAL 

Q"tiii • •IIIIIKIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIllllllt • •••tIDIllllllDlltllDIII 
B 

BIG MONEY IN EDUCATION 
N< 0 business man expects to take large profits from his business and put nothing hack, if he wishes to make the business permanent and progressive. 
Yet for years education was a business from which men took all of the really profitable things of life, the things that made them successful, and put nothing back. And these were the very men who were most sincerely convinced of the necessity for the maintenance and progress of edu­cation. 
Times have changed, decidedly. Of most recent signifi­cance is the result of an investigation of the finances of Columbia University by six of the leading financiers of New York City, five of them not Columbia men. 
Columbia, which is the largest University in the United States, is also one of the wealthiest. It has income bearing assets of approximately $67,000,000, and other assets of some §33,000,000. The income from $33,000,000 of the en­dowment is unrestricted. 
Yet the report of the committee states that Columbia's immediate needs are $39,500,000—$30,000,000 for additional unresti-icted endowment, 89,500,000 for immediate building needs. And no increase in students is contemplated! 
Another significant feature of this same report is the announcement "there will be no resort to the type of bally­hoo so popular in fund raising in recent years. But the amount will be raised. It will be raised from individuals intent upon the intellectual interests of New York City. It will be given by persons of means interested in Columbia through the work of indi%'idual members of the Board of Trustees and of indi\idual alumni. And no small part will be provided through contributions of alumni themselves through the Columbia Alumni Fund." 
It seems to the Editor that the Columbia episode is significant of the national trend in education. Education is no longer a vague, idealistic enterprise, conducted by a semi-ethereal group, from which, however, the practical world is expected to derive all that is accurate and dependa­ble. With the development and expansion of education the world has become so permeated with alumni that education is now recognized as a business, albeit a business with the highest ideals outside religion. And as a business it is recognized as having the same claims to support, to develop­ment, to re-investment, to efiicient personnel, to organiza­tion, and to methods and details as other members of the business world. Nor is a move toward normal business development, as at Columbia, heralded now with the same hysteria as are wars, beauty pageants, and the other color­ful, abnormal things of life. 
HAS IT OCCUEKED TO YOU? 
NOTR E DAM E raised one million dollars for a build­ing fund during the Building and Endowment Campaign, the University's only direct appeal for financial support. Since then, dormitories have been built costing more than half a million. The University Dining Halls were con­structed at a cost of $850,000. Large additions were made to Science Hall and the Gymnasium. St. Edward's Hall was remodeled to house more than 200 college students. At the present time, a $750,000 stadium and a $400,000 law building are being erected. And along with this build­ing there has been an annual deficit, of large proportions, betiveen operating expenses and income from tuition, amounting in 1928-29 to $332,360.44. 
To the informed man, Notre Dame's needs are obvious. 
"DEADLINE THE FIFTH'' 
Ti HE Chesterton article in the March issue was a little slip-up in that co-ordination of information essential to the editing of the ALUMNUS. To secure the best results, the ALUMNUS must have the active and prompt co-operation of the Class' Secretaries, the Club Secretaries and the Cam­pus sources of news. 
Even with these three functioning well, there are weak­nesses. The fifth of the month is deadline. It takes the Editor from the fifth to the tenth to edit the correspondence and articles submitted and have them set up. (There is 75 percent more material in this year's ALUMNUS than in last.) Another day is used in proof-reading and make­up. Two days are necessary in printing after everything has been declared 0. K. And two more days are required to fold, bind, trim and mail. That is the process on a monthly magazine, such as the ALUMNUS. 
You have seen articles dated later than the fifth of the month. It is possible, if the bulk of the magazine is up, and the pages fairly well laid out, to insert later items, but these cannot be made the rule. They are the exception. 
The ALUMNUS is printed by the Ave Maria Press, which also prints more than 40,000 Ave Marias a week, 3,800 Scholastics, the Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes, the Midland Naturalist, the Retreatant,—all periodicals—the various University Special and Beligious Bulletins and Catalogs, and the University and Alumni job work. Con­sequently, a day either way means a big difference in the preparation of any of these magazines or Jobs, and it some­times happens that a day's delay in the ALUMNUS on the side of preparation, may mean a week's delay in circulation. 
This isn't a late thought for this year—it's an early 
It would seem better so. thought for next. 
May, 19SO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Re\). Hairy Kemper, '05, Took Notre Dame With Him 
Every Notre Dame alumnus and, indeed, every Notre Dame man, ought to know something about Father Henry Kemper and his work. It may be said at once that it is a unique work and a notable realization of the Notre Dame spirit, under conditions that are quite extraordinary. 
Briefly, Father Kemper's story is this. He was "ordained to die," as the saying is, but he took his tuber­culosis and his priesthood and his Notre Dame spirit down to Texas, where he has lived and struggled for nearly twenty years, keeping the tu­berculosis at bay, doing as much work possibly as three priests combined, and exhibiting as much grit as any eleven Notre Dame men that ever dug their cleats into the turf of a football iield. 
Those of us whose recollections go back to the early years of the new century, remember Henry Kemper as a tall, lean fellow, who went through the classical course at Notre Dame like a race horse. We did not know he had the priesthood in mind. You will find his name carefully carved on one of the table-tops in the Alumni Office. It was no surprise, however, to learn that Henry cherished the highest and holiest ambitions. After taking his Master's degree in 1906, he was sent by Archbishop Quigley, of Chicago, to the American College at Rome, where he received his Doc­tor's degree. Returning to the United States, he was in such a condition of ill-health that it was impossible for 
him to live and work in his own dio­cese. Having received due permis­sion from his archbishop, he with­drew from the archdiocese of Chicago and went to Kerrville, Texas, where there was nothing but sunshine and souls to save, in a territory he took over for himself, larger than the State of Delaware. 
TH E ENTRANCE 

("Notre Dame" in large letters is obscure in this illustration of the gate.) 
It became immediately evident that, if any lasting work was to be done, capital must be available. Practical and generous. Father Kemper realized upon his o^vn prospects, arranging with his family to have immediate use of the patrimony that, in the natural order of events, would ulti­mately come to him. .4.t the very start, he invested his life and all his future prospects in the apostolate which he had undertaken. 
It was not long before his eiforts began to bear fruit. Churches and schools were built, and the poor, scattered Mexicans, over that vast territory, were given the consolations of our holy religion. Converts were made, religious vocations developed; charities extended; until today Notre Dame Institute at Kerrville, Texas, is one of the strongest centers of Catholic thought and real Catholic action in the whole United States. Notre Dame Institute, whose official colors, by the way, are Gold and Blue, is the result of Henry Kemper's trad­ing with the talent this University gave him. The training and the in­spiration of twenty-five years ago might have been folded up in a nap­kin and put away. Father Kemper might, with a clear conscience, have retired to a sanatarium in the dis­trict and lived carefully on the patri­mony which he has gloriously squan­dered upon Christ's poor. That would have been entirely honorable, but it would hardly have satisfied the Notre Dame spirit, which regards honor as the reward only of toil. The fighting spirit must have its victory to cele­brate. Father Kemper, modestly, enough, makes no claim to glory, at­tributing all his success to Divine Providence and the good friends whom Divine Providence has inspired to assist him. This affords Notre 
Dame all the more reason for taking pride in his achievement. 
—'Oe. 

A GENERAL VIEW OF NOTRE DAJIE INSTITUTE, KEBBVOIE, TEXAS 
The Living Endowment Plan Is Much Alive 
Early Response Indicates Appreciation of Needs and Possibilities Of Association's Project on Behalf of the University. 
June 1 officially opens the Asso­ciation's fiscal year. But to gain an early start (and to save several hun­dred dollars in postage) the literature of the Living Endowment Plan was sent out with the mailing of the 1930 ballots. Responses have been re­ceived, even at this early date, in­dicating that the hopes of the officers of the Association are being realized in the right interpretation of the Plan by the members. 
Remember these major features: it is purely voluntary, to be based upon your desire and ability to give—a dollar from one may mean as great interest and sacriiice as a hundred from another; it is annual, not in the sense of a "drive" or "campaign" but in the sense of dividing the burden of endowment into convenient periods; it is variable, in that a pledge can be altered to meet unforeseen circum­stances, or can be increased from year to year if the indiridual pros­perity permit; it allows the individual to use the capital sum, which in most cases produces larger profits than can accrue from an ordinary endow­ment fund conservatively invested. 
Check for $500 Received In connection •with this last point— 
"Jotcmey's End" at N. D. 

Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Speech Department, and director of the University Theater, announces that the University Players will stage "Journey's End," the famous war play by Robert C. Sheriff, in Washington Hall, This comes as great news to all those interested in drama, for it gives the student players an opportunity to play in something new, and it gives the student audience an opportunity to see what is considered the one great play rising out of the World War. The play at present is in the sixty-third week of its run in New York, and it has recently appeared in a talk­ing picture. 
Jlr. Kelly had some difficulty in ob­taining the play for Notre Dame, and recently he made a special trip to New York to obtain first-hand infor­one of the early checks received is a check for five hundred dollars ($500). This, translated into endowment under the old system, would repre­sent ten thousand dollars ($10,000) invested at five per cent. It would mean, under the old system, removal of a very substantial capital sum from the fortune of the donor, one that could be expected from very few of our alumni. Under the present Plan, this capital can remain in the donor's business, where it is not un­reasonable to suppose that it can re­turn annually this generous gift and additional interest. 
Annual Report 

Ability to give varies greatly with­in the Association, even within any given Class. There is no wish on the part of those contributing to such a cause to benefit either by favorable or unfavorable publicity. For that reason, although the Association ap­preciates immeasurably the generos­ity of its able members, the Board of Directors favors the publication of merely an annual report of the amount received, with its disposition, etc., and a list of contributors, prob­ably by Classes, but with no indica­tion of the amount given. This, of course, means that the man who 
mation concerning problems of pro­duction; hence he announces that the play vnll be almost identical with the New York version, save for slight changes which will cut down the run­ning time. 
Gale^i-for-Senator Move 

Hon. Albert J. Galen, '96, associate justice of the Supreme Court of the State of Montana, was drafted, April 5, by the Republican State Central Committee of that state as a candi­date for the United States Senate to oppose Hon. Thomas Walsh, LL.D. '17. Judge Galen was characterized as "the one man in Montana today who can give Montana proper repre­sentation at Washington through un­qualified support of President Herbert Hoover's constructive program." 
gives a dollar will receive as much credit as the man who gives five hundred. But the Board is confident that the satisfaction of giving to Notre Dame is not to be found in a printed page. Nor do they anticipate any discount from the general amount from the adoption of such a plan. They are convinced that a thorough understanding of the Plan will bring from every alumnus the ma.ximum that his circumstances permit. 
Ticket Preference While the Association wishes mem­bers to understand that preference in football tickets is granted to paid-up members as a recognition of their co-operation and not as an instru­ment of blackmail, it is the one form of recognition available to the As­sociation. And this year, as in for­mer years, members whose dues are paid by August 1, the date on which the individual game ticket sale opens, will be given a preference, if they comply with the other rules of the Athletic Association. Paid-up alumni may expect preference, courtesy, and co-operation, but there is not that in the make-up of either the Athletic or Alumni Associations that can per­form miracles. 
EditoHal Posts 

Emil L. Telfel, Newark, N. J., was named as editor for the 1930-31 Scholastic at the annual banquet of the Publications Board. Paul Halli­nan, Painesville, will edit the Dome of 1931. John E. Dempsey, Oshkosh, Wis., will edit the Juggler. Louis Brennan, Portsmouth, Ohio, will head the editors of Scrip, the new Uni­versity literary publication. 
"Rock" Is Back 

Looking thinner, but lacking ap­parently nothing, K. K. Eockne, '14, attended his first Spring football scrimmage on Saturday, May 10. Re­ports are that a little care and a little convalescence \vill put the same Eockne on the field next fall who has been on the field every previous fall until the unfortunate illness of 1929. 
May, 19-30 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
g)iiiiiiiiliiM>iimiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiMimiiiiniiiiiiitiiiniiiiii<miiniiiiiiiMiimiiniiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii •III") tuiiiiiiiiiiiiimmmniniiiitmiiiiiiiiniiiimiiitiiiiiMiiimiiiifSI 
ATHLETICS: 

• •••••IIMItlMUIIinillllMlinilllllllMIIMIlMllltllMI •••Ill IMMUIIIttllllllltB 
By JOHN KIENEE, '32 

W
ITH Coach Nicholson's track­men leading their opposition in most of the competition and Coach Keogan's face taking on less of a doleful figure because of the .500 pace set by his baseball nine, the spring athletic season is rapidly draw­ing to a dramatic close. The return of Knute Rockne should liven up the remaining weeks of football practice for the combatants and give the old master a hint as to what he must smooth over before the season begins next October. 
TRACK 

The two-mile relay team continues its pace as the greatest team in the country today. Such was the way. Captain Joe Abbott, Joe Quigley, Brant Little, and Ale.x Wilson were introduced at the Drake Belays on April 26. They replied with a smash­ing victory in 7 minutes 54 8/10 seconds. Little, running anchor, was twenty yards in the van of Taylor of Washington State College at the finish. 
The Notre Dame football relay team composed of O'Connor, Kaplan, Brill, and Muilins, finished in second place for the second successive year. Notre Dame was a slight yard in the rear of Tulane who lowered Army's mark of :43 9/10 set last year by 3/10 seconds. Bob McDonald cap­tured a second in the javelin, in his first meet of the season, hurling the spear 187 feet 2 inches. Johnny O'Brien fared no better than fifth in the 120-yard high hurdles and fourth in the hop, skip, and jump. 
At the Ohio State Relays, Satur­day, May 3, the two-mile relay team set up a record of five straight vic­tories by clipping nearly six seconds from the old meet mark to win in 
7:466/10. Their time was four sec­onds better than that made by Bates College in the Penn Relays, after which Bates was awarded the cham­pionship of the East. Brant Little led off with fifteen yards, Abbott picked up about ten more, Quigley lenirthened the margin to forty-five yards and Alex Wilson breasted the tape a full sixty yards ahead of Ohio State's anchor man, and nearly sev­enty-five yards in front of Indiana's runner. 
Roy Bailie captured second place in the broad jump; his leap was less than six inches short of 22 feet 11% 
CAPTAIN JOE LORD: 
Baseball 

inches made by Utterback of Pitts­burgh. O'Brien tripped over the ninth hurdle but took third place; Johnson's jump of 12 feet 9 inches merited him a tie for fourth place; Tom Warne of Northwestern won the event with a leap of 13 feet 111/3 inches. Ken Boagni took fifth in the lOO-yard dash to be the eighth man out of the ten to make the trip to place in his event. 
1930 BASEBALL SCHEDULE 
April 1-1—N. D. 12. Armour Tech A April 21—N. D. 5-0. Florida -I-l April 23—N. D. 3. GcorKia Tech 1 April 2.1—N. D. 5. Georgia Tech 3 April 25—Fort Benninff 6. N. D. 3 April 2S—Fort BenninK 3. N. D. 5 April 30—N. D. 5, Wisconsin 3 May 3—Michigan State 3, N. D. 2 Jlay 10—Iowa .1, N. D. 5 May IS^Nbrthwestem at Notre Dame May 16—Illinois at Urhana May 17—^Northwestern at Evanston Jlay 20—Bradley at Notre Dame May 23—Luther at Decorah. lona May 24—Iowa at Iowa City May 26—Michisan State at N. D. May 30—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame 
Miiy 31—Navy at Notre Dame 

«­
On Tuesday, May 6, the Illinois trackmen gained the reve'hge they sought from Notre Dame and an-ne.\ed a dose, hard-fought meet ty a 68-58 count, the result was not de­cided until the final event of the day's programs. A strong wind handi­capped the Blue and Gold runners and placed them at a great dis­advantage. 
Alex Wilson and Brant Little were high scorers for Notre Dame; Wil­son annexed the 440-yard dash, while Little took the mile; both then ran a dead heat in the half-mile to total nine points apiece. The Blue and Gold sprinters were decidedly off-color, Boagni placing third in the century, and failing in the 220, McCorridck. taking second in the 220 but getting off to a bad start in the 100, being unplaced. Nichols failed to place in either event. 
Roy Bailie suffered an unfortunate accident in the low hurdles which robbed Notre Dame of a place, and possibly a victory. He came up fast, lost his stride, tripped over a hurdle and fell. Lee Sentman took the event. 
Notre Dame showed well in the six field events, placing Vsq men in all except the high jump and pole vault. Brill and Hoffman scored firsts, and 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS May, 1930 
BATTING AYERAG ES 
AB H Pet 
Eomanin, p 2 1 .500 Palermo, ss 28 12 .429 Lisicki, p 5 2 .400 Nolan, If 3 .375 
s
Francis, If 19 6 .316 Mahoney, 3b 14 4 .286 Palt, p 11 3 .273 Sullivan, lb 30 8 .267 Askew, 2b 12 3 .250 Mannix, p 4 1 .250 O'Keefe, 2b 30 7 .233 Moran, cf 28 6 .214 Feehery, rf 30 6 .200 Dilley, p 5 1 .200 Lordi, c 27 3 .111 Lomasny, If 1 0 .000 Duffy, 2b 1 0 .000 
Totals 255 66 .259 
(Including same of May 3rd) 

Johnson tied \rith McDermott, the Illinois captain, for first in the pole vault. Howery took thirds in both the mile and two-mile. Quigley ran the two-mile for the first time and lost a heart-breaker to McKeever in the final sprint to the tape. 
BASEBALL 

The Notre Dame ball tossers re­turned from the tour of the South­land with a record of three games won and a like number lost. They split a double header with the Florida Gators, 5 to 4, and 0 to 1. The lat­ter game was a pitcher's duel be­tween Jim Dilley, Notre Dame flinger, and Lefty Guise, Florida's southpaw, who had been signed by the Yanks. Guise allowed only three hits and Dilley six in an abbreviated seven-inning game. 
Lefty Palt, sophomore hurler, and Joe Palermo, shortstop, working to­gether harmoniously helped to do^vn Georgia Tech 3 to 1 in the first of the two games with that team. Palt allowed seven hits and did not issue a single walk; Palermo handled nine chances flawlessly as well as garner­ing three safe blows in four trips to the plate. Harry Francis, left fielder for the Fighting Irish, scored two of the winning runs. Next day, Notre Dame again downed Georgia Tech, this time to the tune of a 5-3 count. The highlights of the game were Francis' steal home and a home run by Moran a moment later. Lefty 
Lisicki proved equal to the hurler's task in the pinches although he al­lowed the opposition nine hits. 
Port Benning cleaned up a tivo­game series, winning the first 9 to 5, and the second, S to 5. In the initial foray the Notre Dame baseballers displayed too much anxiety when safe hits meant runs. Mannix held the mound for the losers and turned in a creditable record but for the three errors by his teammates who booted the ball at the crucial moments. 
Concluding the spring tour with three up and three down. Lefty Palt was forced to suffer defeat from the Fort Benning squad in a thrilling 8 to 5 loss. He apparently had every­thing his own way until the seventh inning when with the score 5-2 in the invader's favor. Fort Benning cap­italized after two men had been out and tallied four runs. The Fort boys placed three men on the paths with two out, and Mitchell, next man up, hit a grounder along third. Francis, left fielder, apparently had the ball safely covered when it suddenly took a bad bounce, hit his glove, and bounded over the low fence. This fluke home run allowed four men to scamper across the plate. Palermo again led the hitting with a triple and two singles in four approaches to the plate. Feeherj' also bagged a three-
base blow. 
On April 30, Wisconsin suffered a 5 to 3 drubbing at the hands of the Fighting Irish with Lefty Lisicki having things his own way in a tight game, allowing the Badgers six scat­tered hits, while his mates touched Poser, Wisconsin hurler, for eleven singles. Lisicki might have been in awfully hot water in the eighth except for a display of off-color base running by Winer, Badger center gardener. Bill Sullivan, Notre Dame initial sacker, slugged out two triples, one opening the fourth. He scored on Palermo's sacrifice fly; Lordi, Lisicki, and Francis singled, Lordi scoring, and Lisicki being run down between home and third. Feehery lifted one of Poser's fast ones in the fifth and gave it a four-base twang. 
Michigan State downed Notre Dame 3-2, May 3, when Fisher allowed the losers only five hits. Lefty Palt hurled a seven-hit game but an um­pire's decision on a perfect double play cost Notre Dame a hard-earned victory. Askew, Palermo, and Sulli­van completed a pretty double killing but the umpire said Palermo had crossed second before catching the ball. Barnard had passed home plate with the winning run, which would not have counted had the double-play killing gone through. Joe Lordi broke into the hitting column with a brace of doubles, his second and third hits of the season. 
GOLF 

Loyola University of Chicago had the unique distinction of playing Notre Dame's golfers in the first match to be contested on the new William J. Burke University golf course. May 10. The Blue and Gold foursome of mashie wielders com­posed of Larry MoUer, Bill Redmond, Fran and Euss Beaupre, all ex­perienced golfers defeated Loyola 18-3. 
MoUer holds the record with a pretty 71, two under the course par 
73. Fran Beaupre's best ball has been a 74 with the other tvvo players shooting slightly above this mark. Without a doubt, Notre Dame should have a very successful golfing season. The course is rapidly rounding into shape, greens becoming smoother and thicker, and fairways filling out in brassie-shape. 
As now planned, Notre Dame will meet Detroit University in a duo of matches. There, on May 17 and a return match here May 31, as part of the Commencement program. The school will have representatives in the Indiana State Intercollegiate meet, at Greencastle, Indiana, May 24, and in the Intercollegiate Golf Champion­ship, at Oakmont, Pa., June 22. 
INTERHALL SPORTS 

Numbered among the interhall ac­tivities are included: individual hall indoor baseball teams; intra-hall teams represented by dormitories in the Main Building, and floors in the various halls; outdoor track com­petition resulting in the final cham­pionship meet, Sunday, May 25; two separate golf tournaments for the student golfers, one a varsity title flight for the eight members of the team and another interhall individual championship, in which all students of the University are eligible except the varsity members. 
May, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
President's Address Unifies UniversalN.D, Night 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., Delivers Eloquent Address Heard by Alumni and Friends Throughout United States Through Radio Station W-G-N, Chicago. 
Universal Notre Dame Night, April 21, 1930 held throughout the world by the scattered thousands of Notre men from Bengal to Boston, saw many things done to pay homage to the University. But the feature to the great majority, those within range of the Chicago Tribune's pow­erful station, WGN, and it reached from coast to coast, enjoyed most of all the beautiful outline of the Notre Dame of yesterday, today and to­morrow, as presented by Kev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University Notre Dame music and a short introduction by Byron Kanaley, '04, preceded Father O'Donnell, and several Notre Dame songs followed his remarks. The program took place between 9:30 and 10:00 P. M. The address of Father O'Donnell is herewith printed, because in it are many things that cannot be read or said too often: 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, AND, MORE ESPECLA.LLY, NOTRE DAME ALUMNI AND FRIENDS: 
I wish to express my thanks to this radio station for the invitation to ad­dress its great audience in the series of talks given by university presi­dents of the Middle West. I am es­pecially grateful that to me has been assigned this particular date, which synchronizes with the celebration among our alumni of what we know as Universal Notre Dame Night. In 
•virtue of this latter fact, I hope that, in speaking of our University to­night, I may be accorded a greater latitude of intimacy than might be expected on another occasion. 
A hearty greeting, therefore, I give to Notre Dame men, wherever they may be gathered tonight, from China to Peru. I have just come from the dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, one of the largest, most representative, most active, and most loyal of our alumni units, and I know that I express their wish in ex­tending from their city a greeting of fellowship to ail Notre Dame men everj^vhere. 
What can I tell alumni that they do not already know about Notre Dame? What can I tell the general public that may arrest their atten­tion? I iind everywhere the slogan 
seems to be, "Bigger and better Uni­versities." That is all right, of course, except on the assumption that the bigger a university is, the better it is. I am afraid that assumption is sometimes entertained, not so much by university and college people, but by the world at large. Now Notre Dame is not small, as schools go; it is, in fact, the largest boarding school in the world, but it has no ambitions of mere numerical strength or mate­rial size. In the course of the reg­ular scholastic year and the Summer School, we offer instruction to nearly five thousand resident students. Had no limitation been placed on enroll­ment some seven or eight years ago, the number might easily now be the double of that. Expansion at Notre Dame—new buildings for Law, Com­merce, Engineering, Fine Arts— means only that we are trjnng to catch up with the growth that is al­ready an accomplished fact. Sim­ilarly, too, as regards development in graduate studies, the demand is forc­ing the supply. This is particularly true of the Summer School. I re­gard it as likely that, within a very short time, a bachelor's degree 'mil be a requirement for admission to the summer session. 
If not material size or numerical development, what then is the par­ticular ambition of Notre Dame ? At a time when "service" is the catch­word of the hour, Notre Dame does not admit any utilitarian obligations, as those obligations are commonly understood. -4t a time when educa­tion has turned inward, and almost the chief study of schools is how to be schools, Notre Dame is not ex­perimenting in educational theories, methods, practices. .A.t a time when all truth is open to challenge, Notre Dame fii-mly holds that much truth is to be accepted, and its challengers challenged. At a time when tradi­tion is at a discount, Notre Dame be­lieves that, with the touchstone of what is proved in physical science and in philosophy, new truth is to be attained. Above all, when in tJiis our day the processes of education are considered paramount, Notre Dame maintains that the purpose or end of education is that which chiefly matters. 
It would be a wrong conclusion to judge from what has just been said that Notre Dame is reactionary and out of line with present-day educa­tional policies and standards. Scho­lastically, Notre Dame is approved by the various recognized accrediting agencies, and is a charter member of the International Association of Cath­olic Universities, one of two Amer­ican universities to have this distinc­tion. No, what has been said should foster the surmise that certain prin­ciples constantly operate in the edu­cational plan which will follow at Notre Dame, rather than create the suspicion that Notre Dame stands opposed to what is best in modem educational thought and practice. 
There is first of all the view that moral excellence lies within the scope of college training, though one's con­viction of human perfectability may vary from a healthy skepticism to a confidence that is ultimately Utopian. In other words, it is not clear that, morally and intellectually, all goals are fonvard. If there is no "deposit of the faith," so to speak, in educa­tional matters, then all past agencies of education have labored to no pur­pose except to show us how poten­tially vain our own efforts are. 
It is the business of schools to teach; it is quite as much their bus­iness, we aifirm, to make sure that the advantages of wider knowledge secured by college men shall make these men better members of society. What price education that serves but to promote intellectual and moral chaos? One would think that agree­ment of educators on this point should be unanimous. Even the training of an apprentice in a useful trade is ex­pected to equip him with standards of honor and honesty, as well as give him proficiency in his particular craft. Surely this is but platitude, and yet in well-known quarters an explicit public disclaimer of any responsi­bility for the moral culture of stu­dents has been made by men in whose direct keeping students have been placed. This is an obscurantist posi­tion, covering an attitude of moral cowardice, utterly indefensible. The assumption that the home and the church, where the home and the church are too often non-existent as influences, will take care of moral background and moral training, is certainly fatuous, if not completely dishonest. 
One suspects that in the minds of some educators, the connotation of the very terms "moral training" is a dreary one. Discipline traditionally has a stern brow. The notion that obedience and happiness go hand in hand is likely to be taken as an empty paradox. Yet, if I were to single out for emphasis one par­ticular element in the spirit of Notre Dame, I should say it is precisely this: with considerable success, Notre Dame teaches men to obey and be happy. What gives efficacy to the "law of liberty" is the free accept­ance by reasonable men of legitimate restrictions. The game of life, as any other game, can be played only within the rules. 
With these principles as guide, we feel we have at Notre Dame a work­able program, covering the various collegiate interests. The family ideal is ours. To the men who conduct Notre Dame, that is to say, to the 
• members of that religious body known as the Congregation of Holy Cross, Notre Dame is actually their motherhouse and their home. There is intimate and friendly association between professors and students. The visitor remarks this instantly. Students live in residence halls grouped about the campus. A faculty member lives on each floor in every hall. There are no fraternities. The school is not co-educational. Meals are taken in a common dining hall large enough to accommodate at each meal the entire student body. The lay faculty have a special dining room apart, but the president and the other members of the faculty dine with the students, in keeping with a tradition that is immemorial at Notre Dame. 
Beyond this natural system of close family intercourse, one need not go to find the origin of the Notre Dame spirit, of which we hear so much, especially during the football season. The reason is rather obvious. To Notre Dame men, Notre Dame is a moral person, a living reality, not a mere abstraction, a soulless corpora­tion, as another tj^ie of educational unit might be. Possessing in Mr. Rockne the best football coach in the world, as most of the world admits, we possess in him, too, an honor graduate of the University, who is himself the first to proclaim the enduring force of the ties that unite Notre Dame men. 
Something of all this needs to be 
understood if our football record, 
which forms the subject of so much 
comment, is not to remain an isolated 
phenomenon, or, indeed, an insoluble 
enigma. Football literally fits in at 
Notre Dame. It has its proper co­
ordination with the intellectual and 
moral programme which is the Uni­
versity's only sufficient reason for be­
ing. This is so elementary that the 
youngest freshman on the campus 
grasps the idea. It is an idea which 
the youngest freshman on any cam­
pus can grasp. No one is keener 
than the college student of today, no­
body less easily fooled. I have af­
firmed over and over again that if 
there is loss of balance in the world 
of college sports, it is not the under­
graduates who have lost their equi­
librium, and, least of all, I should 
say, those students who take part in 
sports. In any college life that is 
fundamentally sound.the playing and 
winning of games must be only a by­
product. When colleges cease to be 
schools first and foremost, they do 
so at their peril, and that peril is 
from within. The only possible guar­
antee there can be for the future of 
sports in the -A^merican university is 
constant attention, on the part of the 
university authorities, to the aca­
demic and moral side of college life. 
Otherwise, even athletics will perish 
and our studies will become merely 
monuments to folly in the graveyard 
of education. 
The future of education in schools like ours was never brighter than it is today. Never before has alumni interest in Alma Mater been so keen as it is today. There has never been a generation of young men more worth working for and working with than the boys that today look up to the old historic Dome. From both points of view, the human and the divine, it is easy to labor and be happy at Notre Dame. 
Senior Ball Success 
The Senior Ball of the Class of 1930, held at the Palais Eoyale, South Bend, May 9, was most successful. Francis Dailey, Joliet, 111., was gen­eral chairman. 
i39 Seniors 
The Class of 19S0, after all dis­counts for the various factors that prune the annual output, will be officially 439. This, it is understood, includes the Ball Week-end, so is sub­ject to very little further alteration. 
College of Law 
Work on the new $300,000 Law 
Building is progressing very rapidly. 
The contractors, Ralph SoUitt & Son, 
e-^pect to have it ready for occupancy 
by September 1, 1930. 
The summer session of the College 
of Law of the University of Notre 
Dame begins June 24, 1930, and ends 
August 6, 1930. The following courses 
will be offered: Constitutional Law, 4 
credit hours, by Professor Eichter; 
Administrative Law, 2 credit hours; 
and Compensation and Other Labor 
Laws, 1 credit hour, by Dean Konop. 
All the above courses are open to 
both law students and students in 
post-graduate work in Politics. 
Judge M. JL Oshe of Chicago is 
delivering a series of lectures on Con­
veyancing, Abstracting, and Title In­
surance. 
The Law Club and Faculty of the 
University gave a dinner in the Lay 
Facultj' dining hall in honor of Hon. 
William Hoynes, Dean Emeritus of 
th; Law School. Dean Hoynes, al­
though 86 years of age, was able to 
be present and delivered a very inter­
esting and instructive address. Many 
alumni of the Law School were pres­
ent and delivered appropriate remarks 
felicitating the Colonel. 
Saunders Senior President 
John F. Saunders, Arts and Letters, Lowell, Mass., was elected to the presidency of the Class of 1931, at the Spring elections. Vincent Cavanaugh, Chicago, also an A.B., will preside over the Junior destinies during the coming year. Edward Dailey, Bur­lington, Iowa, was the third A.B. to secure a Class presidency for the com­ing year, winning the Sophomore post. 
The ALUMNUS would just like to query, where are the Law»yers of yes­teryear? Not to mention the Engi­neers. 
University Ring 
The old Senior Pin that got lost so quickly after its purchase is to give way, for the Class of 1931 tentatively at least, to a new official ring, ap­proved by the S. A. C. and a faculty board. The ALUMNUS understands that the ring is to be distinctly a man's ring. Women's rights, in fact lefts, apparently were left out of the debate. 
Judge Kavanagh Sails 
Judge Marcus Kavanagh sailed May 10 for England to testify before the House of Commons on capital punishment. 

May, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
iiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiitiiiDniii iMiiitMtnitiitiiiiuiiiiuiiiiiniiiiniiiumiiiiit
(3**"""**""*""""""*""""""""""""'""*""""""""'""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 
ALUMN C
LUMNI ^LUBS 

QlllllllllllKllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllll Mi>tiiiiiiii<i<iii*iii>i>niiiiiiiiii IIItllMlltlDltllltllllUllllnlllllllllllDIIIIII MIKItllllltlllUlllttMlinillHUIIMIIIIIIDMl 
ALBANY, N. Y. I am giving you herewith a report of the meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the Capital District held on Notre Dame Night, April 21st, 1930. This report constitutes a verbatim copy from the Knickerbocker Press as written by, I believe, Mr. Gei-ald Lyons, Class 1924. 
"NOTEE DAME GROUP HOLDS ALBANY MEET. 
Capital District Members Observe General Celebration. 
"Men of the Notre Dame University Club of the Capital District met last night at the DeWitt Clinton Hotel to mark Universal Notre Dame Night. 
"After a dinner they tuned in on a broadcast from WGN and heard the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, president of the University, describe the school's influence on the middle west. The Notre Dame band and glee club also entertained. The broadcast was from the dinner of the University's Chicago club. 
"The Capital District men elected these officers: John J. Heuther, Schen­ectady, president; Thomas Vincent Dollard, Albany, vice-president; John 
W. Forbing, Albany, secretary-treas­urer; Ward Leahy and Joseph B. Carey of Albany, Ronald McNamee of Balston Spa, C. W. Topping and John 
J. Meehan of Schenectady were named to the board of governors. 
"Brother Raymond and Brother Vitus of the Congregation of the Holy Cross were guests at the dinner." 
AKRON 

On Universal Notre Dame Night the Akron group held a dinner dance at the Copley. About fifty couples attended. Election of officers resulted in Stephen Wozniak, '28, being chosen as president, and Joseph Kraker, '29, chairman of the entertainment com­mittee for the coming year. 
ARKANSAS 

The Notre Dame Club of Arkansas remained faithful wth its annual meeting and banquet on Universal Notre Dame Night. We met at the Marion Hotel for the dinner; conduct­ed our business, and then adjourned to the home of Warren Baldivin, '13, for the radio program. We caught parts of the first number, but soon lost connection. While Mrs. Baldwin was endeavoring to tune in on WGN, "Baldy" got his N. D. scrap book out and days of '12 and '13 were re-lived. 
Warren Baldwin, '13, and John Murphy, '28, alternate, were selected to represent the club at the first an­nual club council meeting. Then, look­ing over our membership, we unani­mously decided that Aristo Brizzolara, '13, Little Hock, is our champion golf player, and accordingly selected to find a way to get to Notre Dame for the golf tournament. 
N. D. CLUB OF BENGAL 
Ml-. 

TOP Row—(Ze/t to right) Fr. Svn­talski, Fr. Graner, Fr. Hennessy, Bro. Severin, Bro. Fabian, Fr. Wetzel, Fr. DeGrace, Fr. Rick. 
SECOND ROW—Fr. Finner, Fr. Good­all, Fr. Norkrauer, Bishop Crowley, Fr. MacGregor, Fr. Weiss, Fr. Brooks. 
BOTTOM ROW—Bro. Damian, Bro. Basil, Bro. Walter, Fr. ilangan, Bro. Andreio, Bro. Vital. 
BUFFALO 

Universal Notre Dame Night in Buffalo broke all previous records, ac­cording to Paul Hoeffler. "The big­gest, best and most colorful crowd up to date," quoting Paul. "Hank Burns, the up-to-date executive from Tona­wanda strutted in late as usual. Gor­don Bennett was forgotten, being such a mild, meek lad, the waiter passed him by when the chicken was served, but Marty Ryan had seconds that ac­counted for Gordon's loss of plate . . . The Glee Club made a big hit here. Notre Dame went through with flying coloi-s again . . ." Paul also sends in some good dope on some of the boys. "Al Boehm strolled in one evening with Ted BuUard, '24, whom I haven't seen since way back before the dark ages of graduation. Bemie Bird, '27, is the big parole officer and by big I mean Big, as Bemie has expanded. He still has his man-about-town man­ner. Joe Braunsdorf, '28, a local • South Bend Boy, is here, in fact Buf­falo has been harboring him for the last year. Some more new comers. Wilson McDade, '28, wife and family are doing the town with Mac's broth­er, another one of the "old Irish." Don Aigner, '25, is the big g^un out at Buffalo's airport. I've been propo­sitioning him for the trip the latter part of this month. I'm hoping he will charter a nice, big, safe, com­fortable ship and fly us to the '25 Re­union on May 30. John Uebbing, '24, is Buffalo's big promoter. These Notre Dame boys are pretty smart lads, what say?" 
BOSTON 

According to a telegram from the Boston Club the dinner dance which was held on Universal Notre Dame Night was a huge success. The tele­gram reads: "Largest party ever held in Boston in honor of University of Notre Dame. Cheering for Notre Dame and its president." 
A business meeting was held in con­nection with the dance and new offi­cers were elected. Charles Baine was elected president. Hugh Blunt, '24, vice-president, and Dr. James J. Lynch was re-elected treasurer. 
CHICAGO See Kelleghan and the June -ALUM­NUS. CLEVELAND The Cleveland Club celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night with an alumni dance at the Mid-Day Club. No details have been received, but after receiving the unusually clever announcement we predict a most suc­cessful "trip." The folder announced the "Universal Special," scheduled to leave the Jlid-Day Club at 10 p. m., April 21, visiting alumni clubs in Chi­cago, New York, South Bend, Los An­geles and Paris. Ohio. Due back at 3 a. m. Russ Lyons, guide. The Alumni Office hopes the club enjoyed a Bon Voyage. 
CINCINNATI 

No report. 
CENTRAL OHIO 

A letter from Ray Eichenlaub, president of the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio, reads: 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Notre Dame Uni­versity Club of Central Ohio at the K. 
of C. Ballroom, Council 400, Colum­
bus. 
We think that the interest showTi 
by the Notre Dame men in the sur­
rounding towns such as Newark, Lan­
caster, New Lexington, Springfield 
and London and other close-by cities 
is mighty fine. We had representatives 
from these places and sometimes it is 
not an easy matter for fellows to pack 
up early in the evening to go fifty or 
sixty miles to a dance. 
We celebrated the evening with a 
supper dance which came off for a 
fairly early start, but some of the 
attendants were delayed by the Ohio 
Peniteniary disaster which was sched­
uled just about an hour ahead of our 
dance. 
In fact some of the parties like Jack 
Cannon and Joe Eyan and a few doc­
tors never came at all. 
Approximately one hundred couples 
attended the dance and everybody ap­
peared to be having an unusually good 
time. 
A clipping from a Columbus paper states that Jack Cannon arrived at the Horticultural Building in the State Fair grounds soon after the first body had been carried in. He helped carry the second body into the im­provised morgue and inmiediately set to work to embalm the victim. He is studying medicine at Notre Dame. 
Jack's rescue work at the Ohio Pen­
itentiary disaster was as outstanding 
as his feats on the gridiron. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
No report of the Connecticut Val­ley's accomplishments has been re­ceived to date. 
DAYTON "The Dayton Notre Dame Club in full attendance joins the national hook-up and pledges its continued loyalty." The above telegram was re­ceived from the club on Universal Notre Dame Night, signed by the new president of the club, Joseph B. Mur-Phy. The club celebrated the Night with a dinner in the Chinese Room of the Miami Hotel. The entertainment committee was composed of such able men as W. E. Shea, E. A. Mayl and 
W. D. Kavanaugh. 
Election of officers took place. The new officers are: Joseph B. Murphy, 'U, president; Ed Shea, '23, treasur­er; William Kavanaugh, '27, secre­tary. Looks like the beginning of a big year for Dayton. 
DENVER No report. 
DETROIT The Notre Dame Club of Detroit sent the following telegram to the University on the occasion of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night: "On this night when the hearts of all Notre Dame men are quickened with thoughts of their Alma Mater the Notre Dame Club of Detroit re­affirms its allegiance to the University and to the things for which it stands. The ties that bind the alumni to the campus are strengthened, not dimin­ished, with the passing years. May it be always thus. Let the University only command us and we shall be at her side, eager to do what we may to serve the institution which we love." The dinner dance which the club sponsored on the Night was a marked success. More than two hundred and twenty-five couples attended, the largest number to attend any of the club affairs. The party was given at the Oriole Terrace and took the place of the traditional stag observance of Universal Notre Dame Night and the annual Easter dance. Detroit stu­dents home for the Easter holidays were well represented in the attend­ance. The invitation to the affair was an attractive folder and the program was especially well done. According to Charlie Molz, the choice of the two students the club will send to Notre Dame next fall un­der its scholarship arrangement, has been placed in the hands of a com­mittee headed by Edward J. Weeks. 
DES MOINES No report. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA No report. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA No report. 
FOX RIVER VALLEY 
Universal Notre Dame night was fittingly observed by the Green Bay Notre Dame Club. A dinner meeting was held at the Beaumont Hotel and was attended by twenty-two members from the Fox River Valley and the young men who are now students at Notre Dame. 
Resolutions of condolence were or­dered sent to the families of the men who died during the past year: Cyril Meyer, Levi Geniesse of Green Bay and George Kelly of Neenah. 
It was voted to send several of the members to commencement at Notre Dame this year. The club also placed the Commomceal in the local library 
for the present year. 
FORT WAYNE In observance of Universal Notre Dame Night the Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club held its annual banquet on Monday night, April 21, at the Cath­olic Community Center. The affair was not only for the alumni and for­mer students of the. University, but also the undergraduates, who were spending the Easter vacation in the 
city. 
Frank M. Hogan presided as toast­master. Speakers included C. Byron Hayes, Dr. James M. Dinnen and Francis E. Corbett, Members of the basketball team of Central Catholic high school. Coach. William Barrett, Brother Justin, C.S.C, athletic direc­tor-. Brother Harold, C.S.C, principal, and other faculty members also at­tended. 
HAinLTON, OHIO 
No report. 
HIAWATHA LAND 
The Hiawatha Land University of Notre Dame Club's annual meeting was held at the Delta Hotel, Escan­aba, at 7:00 p. m. Monday, April 21. The banquet was followed by a pro­gram which included the radio broad­cast from WGN. The most important item of business concerned the One Hundred Dollar Scholarship. 
HOUSTON No report. UTAH-NOTRE DAME CLUB The club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with the annual banquet held as usual at the University Club in Salt Lake City. About fifteen members attended and from all re­ports the affair was a successful one. At the business meeting which fol­lowed the dinner officers were elected for the coming year. Ray Brady was re-elected president. H. E. Weiss was re-elected secretary, and Kev. Patrick Maguire was elected chaplain. The following men were elected to the executive committee: Judge Roger McDonough, Park City, Utah; Major 
F. J. Torney, U.S.A., Salt Lake City, Utah; Victor Perry, Helper, Utah; Samuel Powell, Ogden, Utah; Robert Lynch, Salt Lake City. 
It was agreed to change the name of the Club from the Intermountain-Notre Dame Club to the Utah-Notre Dame Club. Ray Brady explains that there is only one member who is not a resident of Utah. Hence the change. The Intermdnntain Club is dead! Long live the Utah-Notre Dame Club! 
• INDIANAPOLIS No report. 

JOLIET eral weeks. During the football sea­MANILA 
John Berscheid, secretary of the Joliet Club, sends in this report of the meeting held on Universal Notre Dame Night: 
"Mr. La\vrence Adler of Joliet al­lowed us the use of his cottage near town for the evening. It is a beauti­ful place and highly suitable for the occasion. 
"Through the courtesy of our local station WCLS we were able to broad­cast a program. Francis Dunn acted as master of ceremonies. The Hon. Michael Hennebry, a member of the state legislature and an old student of Notre Dame, gave a very impressive and inspiring talk about the Uni­versity. I hope it was the good for­tune of a large number of people to hear him. The rest of the progi-am consisted of Notre Dame songs and a few words by several students who were visiting in Joliet. 
"We tuned in on WGN and heard Father O'Donnell's talk, which we en­joyed very much. 
"During the course of the evening we had a buffet lunch. All in all there can be no doubt but that this was the biggest and best Notre Dame Night ever had in Joliet. 
"Brother Lawrence Joseph was chairman of the committee which ar­ranged the evening's entertainment." 
KANSAS CITY No report. 
KENTUCKY No report. 

LOUISLANA-MISSISSIPPI Cyp Sporl sends this newsy letter from New Orleans: 
"The Notre Dame Club of New Orleans held its annual banquet on this past Notre Dame Night and everything was a huge success with one exception, that is, we were unable to get WGN clear enough due to the fact that there were several stations, all of which were practically around the same wave length. We encoun­tered the same difficulty last year, however, WBBM was coming in very strong the same night and we regret very much that you fellows did not give them the job this year. 
In the course of the past seven months I had the pleasure of running into a few Notre Dame men, the iirst of which was Bob Dixon who was down in Florida on business and stopped over and spent the day with me on his way back. Then came our good friend Pat Manion and he honored us with his presence for sev­son Chile Walsh dropped in one eve­ning to scout Oglethorpe. Then one evening to my surprise I ran into Jim Glyn who happened to be pass­ing through town in an automobile. Then came the racing season which brought the Nash brothers down here with a very high-powered three-year­old colt by the name of High Foot which has an excellent chance in my estimation to win this year's Ken­tucky Derby. I have also seen Tom Green on several occasions lately. Like'ivise Joe Blache who drops over from Hammond every once in a while on business. Rupe Wentworth de­cided that the Pacific Coast was no place for him and is back again teaching school at St. Stanislaus College, Bay St. Louis, Mississippi. 
Outside of the above, Mr. Burke, Charlie de Lavergne and self are endeavoring to hold down the fort. 
LOS ANGELES "The Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles gathered together this eve­ning on Universal Notre Dame Night; send hearty felicitations and greet­ings to Alma Mater and pledge con­tinued and undjing support during the years to come. Our guest was Tom Lieb." 
This telegram was followed by a letter from Henry I. Dockweiler. 
"Permit me to report that on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles had a splendid meeting at the University Club, Los Angeles, attended by thirty-five or forty enthusiasts. 
Universal Notre Dame Night cele­bration coincides with the annual dinner and election of officers of this club. The election this year resulted as follows: 
Henry I. Dock^veiler, '12, President; Dan Roberts, '16-'19, Vice-Presi­dent; 
A. D. Schmitt, '21, Secretary; Ed Ashe, '21-'23, Treasurer; and Joseph Suttner, '19, Honorary Pres­

ident. Tom Lieb, Notre Dame's latest con­tribution to football coaching on the Pacific Coast, was the speaker of the evening; and he was followed by Notre Dame men of the older and younger generation who revived mem­ories of college days in a way that made us regret the passing of the years. 
The local club is undertaking a campaign to direct a constant stream of students from Southern California to the University." 
No report. 
MEMPHIS 
No report. 
MILWAUIvEE 

The Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Milwaukee Club was the most successful one held in many years, according to Dr. J. R. Dundon, President of the Club. John McDill Fox, Professor of Law at Marquette University was the principal speaker. 
J. J. Mclntyre entertained with rem­iniscences of the Zahms, Ewings, and Shermans. The following officers were elected: J. J. Mclntyre, Hon­orary President; Dr. J. R. Dundon, President; Attorney Sheridan Mc­Cabe, Vice-President; Thomas 0'­Meara, Honorary Vice-President; Wil­liam Redden, Secretary; James Wheeler, Treasurer. 
Dr. Dundon writes: "Father O'Don­nell's speech over WGN was a gem of composition and delivery. No wonder he flunked us in our first English course .. . In summary I wish to say that our alumni Club has apparently taken on new life and greater things may be expected from it. Besides the several social gath­erings for ladies and alumni we have arranged to entertain Coaches Gus Dorais and Bud Boeringer of Detroit University when they play Marquette 
U. here in the Fall."" MONTANA No report. NASHVILLE A letter from Robert P. Williams, Jr., reads: "Our Club, being very small, had an impromptu dinner at one of the local hotels on Universal Notre Dame Night. Several of the merabeis gave very nice talks con­cerning the occasion. Most important was the drawing up of a letter of sympathy and our heartfelt regrets at the loss of our president, Mr. Ferdinand Kuhn. Also, it was decided to retain present officers and at a later date, when we believe member­ship will be increased to a more rep­resentative number, meet for an elec­tion." NEBRASICA No report. NEW JERSEY "Sixty of us are gathered together to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. We congratulate you as well as assure you of our continued co­operation. Best wishes to all alumni." This telegram assures us that the New Jersey Club is, as usual, right up on top. Up to date no detailed 
report of the meeting has been re­ceived, but according to a letter re­ceived some time ago from Art Lea­mond, a big time would be had bi' all. 
NEW YORK 
Eddie Byrne, Secretary of the New 

York Club sends in this splendid ac­
count of Universal Notre Dame Night 
in New York: 
"Universal Notre Dame Night to 

the men of the Notre Dame Club of 
the City of New York was an occa­
sion that they will long remember. 
Their love for Notre Dame, and their 
loyalty to her was manifested by the 
many men of Notre Dame who fore­
gathered at our usual festive site, 
the Fraternities Club, at 3Sth Street 
and Madison Avenue in New York 
City. 
We were particularly gratified to have as our guest at dinner, the Uni­versity Glee Club, under the direc­tion of Mr. Joseph Casasanta. To those of us who have been hearing them for the past few years, they seem to improve \vith age, for during dinner they entertained us by singing the songs of Notre Dame. 
To Father Eugene Burke and Mr. Joseph Casasanta goes our most hearty approval for their happy col­laboration in composing a wonderful marching song: "When Irish Backs" Go Marching By." That was new to all of us. 
This year we were strong on com­edy and weak on speeches, which seemed pleasing to everyone, for we New Yorkers hear enough speeches, in a week's time to last a year. After dinner, we were entertained by the songs of Rubber Face Gallagher, whose every word was accompanied ^^'ith facial distortions never before known to man; and the whimsical old Irish stories of Eddie Mulcahy, these two gentlemen being of citj- wide popularity as extraordinary enter­tainers. There were other acts for our edification conducive to gayety and hearty laughter. 
Orchestras playing over New York's most popular radio stations honored Universal Notre Dame Night by play­ing the Hike Song and the Victory March. 
Father Mathis spoke briefly. He is the leader of Notre Dame's faithful and self-sacrificing mission band, who are devoting their lives converting the Bengalese in India. On April 30th, a benefit concert given by the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick Glee Club for the Bengalese Mission was held at the Columbus Club in Brook­lyn. It was well attended and sup­ported by the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York. 
Our best wishes for a speedy re­

covery from his illness were extended 
to Father John McNamara, our friend 
and Chaplain. 
The Governing body of the Club, 

the Board of Governors was elected 
at the meeting. There are fifteen 
members, five elected for a period of 
two years, and ten elected for a 
period of one year. The oflBcers of 
the Club were elected from this body 
and they are: 
President—Hugh A. O'Donnell, 
Vice-President—John E. Kenney, 
Secretary—^Edward A. Byrne, 
Treasurer—John F. Heff'ernan." 
A letter from Hugh A. O'Donnell, 

President of the Club contains this 
interesting information: "The Notre 
Dame Glee Club played an engage­
ment at the Hippodrome. This is the 
first time in the history of the Hip­
podrome that the management divided 
a week in order to accommodate the 
Glee Club on the program, as four 
nights were all the latter could give 
to New York City . . . Gene Dufi'y, 
formerly of Notre Dame and recently 
a repotrer on a South Bend news­
paper, is now on the news staff of the 
New York Herald-Tribune." 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Twenty-five members of the Notre Dame Club of Northern California gathered at the Elk's Club in San Francisco to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. The evening was billed as "Down Memory Lane" and incidents of golden days at Notre Dame were refreshed in the memories of those in attendance. Election of ofiicers for 1930­31 was one of the highlights of the affair. Bert V. Dunne, '26, succeeds Keene Pitzpatrick to the presidency; and Mark Kreutzer, '24, succeeds Eustace CuUinan, Jr., '25, to the sec­
retaryship. Judge Thomas Sheridan was again elected honorary president. The outgoing president paid tribute to the work of the officers during the past year and stated that the co­operation of the members and the spirit of enthusiasm which prevailed during the past year boded well for the success of the Northern California 
unit. Reminiscences of Notre Dame days were enthusiastically received. Bernie iVbbrott, '27, related many humorous incidents and John F. Dunne, '28, and Edward Freitas, '28, also brightened up the evening with scintillant re­marks. Especially humorous was Tony Gorman, '24, whose salient witticisms induced Steve Gavin to become quite 
serious and pay tribute to the spir­
itual influence of Notre Dame life. 
Breen McDonald, Ed Waage, Mark 

Kreutzer, John McGinnis and Judge 
Sheridan shared the spotlight with 
the other speakers. 
A musical program augmented the 

speaker's offering. 
The addresses of the new officers 

are: 
Bert V. Dunne, Campbell-Ewald 

Company, 1034 Monadnock Bldg, San 
Francisco, Calif-. 
Mark Kreutzer, Pacific Shipper, 

(trade magazine), 311 California 
Street, San Francisco, Calif. 
Every San Francisco paper carried 

a story on the Elk's Club meeting. 
The fact that the event transpired on 
Easter Monday is considered as the 
reason for the comparatively small 
attendance. 
OKLAHOMA 
No report. 
PARIS 
No report. 
PHILADELPHIA 

The University's alumni of this vicinity celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a very enjoyable dinner given under the auspices of the Philadelphia-Notre Dame Club. Fifteen of the Club's members were present. Interjected into the raison d'etre of the affair was a little busi­ness, consisting chiefly of the election of officers for the coming year and a discussion of the dance contemplated for the night of the Notre Dame-Pennsylvania game in the fall. 
The following officers were elected: Clarence J. James, President; Charles 
M. Dougherty, '26, Vice-President; John J. Kelly, '26, Secretary-Treas­urer. 
It was decided definitely to give the dance and a committee was appointed to handle arrangements. This should be a real party since the Pennsylvania game in Philadelphia is the only game played by Notre Dame east of Pittsburgh this Fall. 
PORTLAND 

Following is a splendid letter from Charles Hirschbuhl, newly elected Secretary of the Portland Club: 
"Just a few lines to report that on the night of April 21st the Oregon association held a very enjoyable meeting at the Benson Hotel. There were thirty members present, and the guest of honor for the evening was Governor A. L. Norblad of the State of Oregon. 
-\fter the Governor had made a few remarks expressing his pleasure at being the guest of such a distin­guished party, Toastmaster Father Tom Burke entertained with his well known stories, and some not so well known, and then called on some of the older members for remarks. Natt McDougall, Walter Daly, Frank Lon­ergan, and Ed O'Flynn engaged in a heated argument as to the best class of all time, and Ed finally decided that it was a great night for '07. Father Kelly, President of Columbia, agreed with Ed so the argument was over. 
Dominic Callicrate, '08, was elected president for the coming year, and myself of '22, was picked as secre­tary. Cally says I have to do all the work, but knowing him as well as I do, I have no worries. 
We also wish to lay claims to the oldest old timers. Mr. E. Gambee, of the class of '73, was present at the banquet, and sat alongside Colonel O'Neill, of the Class of '83. Mr. Walter Gearin, of the Class of '71, was unable to attend but sent his regrets. 
So you may judge from these few items that we had a mighty fine meeting, and although w^e are not very strong in numbers, we are indeed strong in spirit and are very proud of our connection with Notre Dame." 
ROCHESTER 
The steadily improving Club of Rochester sends in this dope on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night: 
"The Rochester-Notre Dame Club had a very nice gathering on Univer­sal Notre Dame Night at the Brook-lea Club. 
The radio broadcasting came in rather poorly, but the boys made up for it with songs and stories among themselves. 
From the fact that several mem­bers who found it impossible to at­tend, phoned the Club to express their regrets, it is evident that Uni­versal Notre Dame Night is achiev­ing considerable importance in the minds of most Notre Dame men. 
At that meeting, Gerald Ashe, '22, was selected to represent the Club at the meeting of the Alumni Clubs to be held at school. May 30 and 31. 

This will probably be the last Rochester Club event until the boys come home in the Summer. Some­time during the Summer, we plan to have a Notre Dame Club outing, and I will write you the news of this in time for the first Alumni number ne.xt Fall." 
Gerry Smith, who has been trying the disappearing act wth remarkable success, sends in a letter with a lot of dope, including the good news that Joe Twomey, '26, will be ordained in June. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY "Rock River Valley-Notre Dame Club extends sincere hope for another national Night." This telegram was received by the University, Universal Notre Dame Night, followed by a re­port of the splendid meeting held in Rockford: "Celebrating the first anniversary of its own organization with a dinner at the LaFayette Hotel, Rockford, the Notre Dame Club of Rock River Valley joined with particular interest in the obser\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
E. M. Lorden, '24, Rockford, was elected president of the organization, whose membership includes men from Beloit, Wis., Dixon, Kochelle, Ster­ling and Rockford. He succeeds Frank J. Petritz, '03, Rockford, who served as head of the club since its start at the Universal Notre Dame Night of 1929. 
Willard Jones, '25, of Dixon, was elected vice-president to succeed At­torney Sher\vood Dixon, '20, of Dixon. 
It was voted to combine the offices of secretary and treasurer. J. Henry Fannan, '24, Rockford, w^ho has been secretary during the last year, was named to this position. George D. O'Brien, '21, known during his school days as "Obie" of the Jtiggler staflT and now an attorney at Rochelle, was treasurer last year. 
It is planned to extend the member­ship of the club to Amboy, Polo, Freeport and other cities within the radius of Rockford. 

The next meeting will be a picnic to be held on a Sunday in June near Dixon. 
Dr. Charles R. Dubiel, formerly of Chicago, who followed a science course at Notre Dame from 1922 to '25 and who finished in medicine at Northwestern University, now is prac­ticing medicine in Rockford. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

The "home team" went to town. May 5, after the absent "talent" of the University had returned from the various other meetings, with a meet­ing of more than 100 of its members. The beautiful Lay Faculty dining room of the University was the set­ting. 
From the immediate enjoyment of the event, talks by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, President of the University, and Frank E. Bering, '98, were outstanding. Father O'Don­nell, in a "family circle" manner, out­lined tentative plans for University development over the next five years that met with the enthusiastic re­sponse of his audience. His picture of the Notre Dame of approximately 1935, with all of the beauties of the old Notre Dame augmented to both the practical and esthetic advantage of the University by a building pro­gram to relieve present crowded con­ditions, was inspirational to a high degree. 
In addition to the proposed building program, Father O'Donnell stressed in connection the need and the inten­tion to secure for the physical Notre Dame a faculty which will grow^ with the buildings. Already important steps have been taken. Several of the members of the Community are abroad this year, taking advanced work at Oxford, and the Sorbonne. John T. Fredrick, editor of the Mid­land Magazine, and a popular occa­sional lecturer at Notre Dame, will teach regular courses here next fall. Through the generosity of an un­named alumnus. Father O'Donnell an­nounced, G. K. Chesterton will give his series of lectures at Notre Dame beginning Oct. 6. Alumni were in­vited to attend any of these lectures. 
Jlr. Hering spoke with a great deal of feeling on the Notre Dame influ­ences, citing numerous instances in his own career at Notre Dame and in the lives of many Notre Dame men he has known. He recalled many of the figures popular in the life of the Uni­versity. 
The incorporation of the Club was announced and on the motion of E. J. McErlain, treasurer, approved by the members. 
From the angle of permanency, and Club activity, probably the outstand­ing feature of the evening was a pro­gram of activities for the Club, out­lined for the Directors to the members by Bernard VoU, '17. 
The program is rather extensive and deals with the older traditional activities of the Club, supplementing these with new and varied features, ai:hletic and academic, stressing the latter. It is a program of which a great deal more will be heard, and one that sounds a new note in the lives of the Local Clubs. 
The Notre Dame orchestra played for the occasion. Tom Kerrigan, so­loist with the University Glee Club, sang. A delicious dinner was served by the Dining Halls. Dudley M. Shively, president of the Club, was toastmaster. 
ST. LOUIS 

The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis joined with the St. Louis Club of Notre Dame to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night with a dance at the Jefferson Hotel in St. Louis. The affair was exceptionally well attended and a real success. 
New officers were elected. Dr. Jos­eph Costello, President; Wm. Griese­dieck, Vice-President; Dr. Daniel L. Sexton, Secretary; • Valda Wrape, Treasurer. The Board of Directors includes: Harold Wrape, John Cor­ley, and Joseph B. McGljTin. 
Arrangements have been made to hold regular meetings. 
SOUTHWrESTERN TEXAS 

"Notre Dame men and their ladies numbering forty attended a dinner party at the San Antonio Country Club in observance of Universal Notre Dame Night." According to this telegram the obseri'ance of the Night in the South of Texas was an outstanding success. 
At a recent meeting of the Club, Joseph Menger was re-elected Pres­ident and Michael A. Needham, Jr., re-elected Vice-President, and Ivir­win Williams re-elected Secretary. 
SYRACUSE 

In accordance with its custom the Syracuse Club held its annual elec­tion and dinner on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Onondaga Hotel. The undergraduates, home for the Easter holidays, joined in the cele­bration. Several selections were given by George L. Kinney, soloist, assisted by the local Glee Club under the direction of Wm. F. Sullivan, Jr. 
Election of officers for the fiscal year ending Notre Dame Night, 1931 was unanimous. President, Emil C. Schonlau; Secretarj', Wm. S. Gate. 
An executive committee was ap­

ISl Ill 
pointed for the purpose of speeding up Club business. Members of the Committee are Jacob Eckel, James Huxford, Leo Kelley and E. C. Schon­lau. It was decided to give monthly luncheon meetings at Schraffts, the second Wednesday of each month at 
12:15 until further notice. Plans for the annual golf tournament to be held at the Skaneateles Country Club dur­ing the week of July 7th, 1930 were discussed. This is open to all mem­bers. However, particular interest is in the local championship between James Huxford, Phil Gooley and Leo Kelley. The Club further decided to organize a ladies auxiliary and de­velop a first class Bridge team. It was decided to complete plans for at­tendance at football games and avoid lack of tickets at the last minute. -All members should obtain their membership cards of the Alumni -As­sociation of the University of Notre Dame promptly. 
TOLEDO No report. TRI-CITIES No report. TWIN CITIES No report. WABASH VALLEY No report. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

-A note from James O'Toole, Jr., Pittsburgh, expresses the apprecia­tion of the Club in having Professor Charles Phillips address the members of the Club for Universal Notre Dame Night. No details of the meet­ing have been received. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 

Dr. Henry B. Luhn, Spokane, writes us that Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Spokane. An informal evening at bridge, with reviewing old photos and "football" talk was enjoyed by Mr. and Mrs. Robert "Matty" Mathews, Athletic Director at Gonzaga University, and Mr. and Mrs. Luhn, at Dr. Luhn's home. 
YOUNGSTOWN 

The spirit of Easter Monday and Universal Notre Dame Night brought new life to the Notre Dame Club of Y'oungstown, which held an enthusi­astic business meeting, elected offi­cers, and planned to hold regular meetings in the future. 
Local Notre Dame men met after dinner in the law office of Attorney John J. Kane, Jr., The meeting was called to order by John J. Buckley, Jr., retiring president. Mr. Buckley is now special prosecutor in Mahon­ing County for collection of delin­quent taxes, and because of these added duties, he refused to accept the office again. 
The following officers were chosen: president, John J. Kane, Jr., '25; first vice-president, Walter H. Vahey, '27; second vice-president, Steve Repasky, '27; secretary, George Kelley, '28, and treasurer, Norman Smith, '24. 
The members agreed that meetings should be held frequently in the fu­ture, and decided to invite all Notre Dame men in the Mahoning Valley, and in towns within a radius of 25 miles of Youngstown, to participate in the local club's activities. 
Mr. Buckley and George Prokop were appointed as a special committee to consider revision of the constitution and by-laws of the Youngstown Club. 
The club will meet again May 12, and will plan at that time for activi­ties during the summer. A get-to­gether meeting with the students is to be held after school closes, and dances or dinner meetings will probably be arranged for the summer. 
• llllllllltllllltlltlllUllltlllttllltllllKIIKIItlllllltllilllllllllllllt 
HTHE ALUMNA 
Qn ii)iiiiliiiiiiiiiiii<i)lliill|ii>iliiiiitliiiiiiiii iiiaiiiKiiiiMM iiiiitiiitniiiiiiiimiminiiminmniimniin,,,,,,,^ 
Deaths 

DR. JOHN F. FENNESSY, A.B. 1899, was buried on April 15, from his home in Dorchester, Mass. De­tails of the cause of Dr. Fennessy's death were not contained in the in­formation, which dealt with the fun­eral. "Large numbers attended the services which were held at St. Peter's Church, Meeting House Hill, where a solemn High Mass of Requiem was celebrated by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Richard J. Haberlin. Joining in the funeral cortege and present at the services were 100 uniformed nurses from St. Margaret's and Carney hospitals and a number of physicians who acted as honorary bearers. Many priests and nuns were present at the services. Burial was in Holyhood Cemetery, Brookline. 
The ALUMNUS extends condol­ences to JOHN SmTH, '28, whose mother died last month; to JAMES SILVER, '26, whose mother died last month, and to CLETUS LYNCH, '23, whose father, a charter member of the first Council of the Knights of Columbus (New Haven, Conn.), died recently. 
Marriages 

Miss Alice MacManus, Birmingham, Mich., daughter of THEODORE MAC MANUS, LL.D. '14, and WILLIAM FRANCIS FOX, JR., '20, Indianap­olis, were married in the Church of the Holy Name, Birmingham, on April 
22. A reception, and breakfast fol­lowed at the Bloomfield Hills Country Club. Mr. and Mrs. Pox left for a motor trip through Virginia and the Carolinas. They will live in Indianap­olis. 
Miss Patricia Josephine O'Eeilly, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Joseph O'Eeilly, and PAUL F. TEENES, '20, were united in mar­riage at the Church of the Visitation, Detroit, JDch., on April 26. The Et. Eev. Joseph Plagens, auxiliary bishop of the diocese of Detroit, performed the ceremony. Mr. and TMrs. Temes spent their honeymoon in Bermuda. 
Jliss M. Evelyn Pritchard, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. Orvis L. Pritch­ard, Rochester, N. Y., and GERALD MOESCHES, '26, who has been asso­ciated with Mr. Pritchard in the gen­eral insurance business, were married in St. Margaret Mary Church, Rochester, April 30. Jlrs. Morsches is a graduate of Nazareth College of Rochester. JOHN MORSCHES, '27, a brother of Jerry, was best man. Mr. and Mrs. Morsches are now at home at 81 Se\'ille Drive, Rochester, after a honeymoon in New York and Bos­ton. 
On Saturday, April 26, Miss Mar­garet Loftus of Chicago was married to JOHN D. GEARY, '27, of Oshkosh, Wis., and Chicago, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. JACK CANIZARO of the Class of '28 was best man. The honeymoon was spent in Louisville, Ky., and Indianapolis. 
On Wednesday, April 30, Miss Isa­bel Syfers of Indianapolis, was mar­ried to WILLIAM B. SULLIVAN, '27, of New Berlin, 111., at the Joan of Arc Church. The wedding breakfast was held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. The following Notre Dame men were present at the wedding: JOHN 
D. GEARY, WILLIAM HOLLAND, BART FAVEEO, DONALD FITZ­GERALD, JOHN HALPIN, JOHN CARTON, JOHN GLASKA, BICHAT GREMILLION, JACK CANIZARO, 
EOBEET  KIEBY, AL  MILLER,  
JOHN DAVIS  and  THOMAS  
GEADY.  

I Engagements \ 
fr «• 
Banns of marriage have been pub­lished for VINCENT F. FAGAN, '20, a member of the faculty of architec­ture of the University, and Miss Agnes McCormack, of Louisville, Ky. 
The engagement of Miss Helen M. Blunt, sister of HUGH BLUNT, '24, and AL BIRMINGHAM, '24, a room­mate of Hugh's at Notre Dame, has been announced. The wedding will take place at an early but unset date. 
DE. DAVID MUEPHY, '25, DLxon, 111., has become engaged to Miss Helen Sullivan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Sullivan, also of Dixon, according to advices from that Notre Dame center. Dave is winding up his medical training at Northwestern. 
STEVE EEBEIL, '25, who is with the Sears, Roebuck & Co. organiza­tion, in their Tucson, Ariz., store, writes that he is engaged, but omits the essentials to a complete account. 
Mr. and Mrs. Eobert D. Jamieson, Chicago, announce the engagement of their daughter Mary Marion to DAVID W. SAXON, JE., '29, of South Bend, son of Mr. and Mrs. David W. Saxon, Memphis, Tenn. Miss Jamieson will graduate next month from Eosary College. 
Births 

EICHARD D. (DICK) DALEY, '17, captain of the basketball team and one of the organizers of the Glee Club, now advertising manager of the Erie (Pa.) Daily Times, and presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Erie, is the proud father of a baby girl, born on April 17. 
ME. and MES. BOB GRAHAM, '26, announce the birth on April 10 of James Eobert, Jr. According to Bob's announcement, the baby has adopted Springfield, 111., politics, as his platform is given as "Wet." 
I « *
Personals 

1878— YOUR CLASS IS EEUNING THIS YEAR! 
1879— YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YEAR! 
1880— YOUR CLASS IS OBSERVING ITS 50-YEAR REUNION AS WELL AS ITS DIX REUNION. 
1881— YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YEAR! 1897 
Rev. John MacNamara, 16 Elm St., Garden City, L. I , N. Y. YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YEAR! 
And your Class Secretary is getting up from a hospital bed to be here. Don't disappoint him. A letter from FATHER MAC says that the good Sisters of Charity of the St. Joseph Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich., have done him a great deal of good, and that he has every hope of being able to come to Notre Dame for Com­mencement and join the ranks of the football fans in the fall. 
1898 

F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl BIdg, Detroit, Michigan. YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YEAR! 
And one of your Classmates thinks that isn't the worst place in the world after all, e. g. this clipping from the New York Telegram, of April 10: 
Over on that glittering blue coast, the Riviera, Frank Ward O'Malley may be a cynical, self-avowed expa­triate, razzing the U. S. A. in the casinos. New York may know him as a sentimental wit who renounced Broadway and Park Row because of Volsteadism. 
But here in Manasquan—^likewise in Brielle, Point Pleasant and adja­cent spots on the brown Jersey coast —O'Malley is a neighbor, a booster and a home town boy just back from another trip to Europe. 
The O'Malley who wrote gleefully last January that he had "escaped from America" into permanent exile, the O'Malley who sent back word of his delight at being free of the "guzz­ling Pharisees of the Bible belt," is back on the Jersey coast with the first robin, shaking hands with the boys at the drug store, looking over the new filling station and beaming at the way the shore is building up. 
And—^whisper it not in Nice or Monte Carlo—O'Malley, the soft­hearted old exile, is boasting a bit about the ninth hole at "our club," about the swell yachting on the land­locked Manasquan, about a neighbor's police dogs, about the view from his second-story ^vindows, and—the food in the town's cafes. 
That last item would bowl over a few whiskered chefs in Frank Jay Gould's new casino. 
It began to look today, as O'Malley dropped down to the village for the first time since he landed Monday, as if the O'Malleys won't be selling their handsome stone homestead up on the hill above Brielle after all. 
1899 
Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson 
Bldg., Peoria, Illinois. 
YOUR CLASS IS KEUNINGTHIS 
YEAR! 
1900 Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois. 
YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS 
YEAR! 
And a vital factor in the whole pro­
gram is one of your Classmates, 
JUDGE EGGEHLAN, the retiring 
President of the Association. 
1905 
Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St., 
Chicago, Illinois. 
YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YEAR! 
1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave, Wooster, Ohio. 
Comes the belated presentation of 
the news sent in just as the wire went 
down on the last issue: 
Friend Jim: 
I am inclined to the opinion that one phase of the class secretary's life is not banked up with roses on one side of the situation and mint juleps on the other side, if any. I financed several appeals by wire asking some of the boys to come across with a greeting at least and my old friend CHET FREEZE, with whom I for­merly exchanged neckties, was the only 1910 man to register. Here and now I am pledging to Chet my part in a two-part reunion to take place at AElwaukee or Wooster. Incidentally, credit should be given to PAT WALSH, RED JIILLER, DOCTOR ROTH and STEVE HERR for the contribution last month. I am work­ing up the background to address BISHOP FINNIGAN and FATHER MATHIS. Save me a portion of space in the next number. 
Freeze has been New Yorking with SAM McQUAID. The name suggests fragrant memories. If Sam has an available address and Freeze is vnW­ing to divulge, I have some reminis­cences to discuss with Sam. Trust Chet—^for extremes in distance. He lined up JIM WASSON in San Fran­cisco. The comment centered on Jim's bald-headedness and I refuse to be dra^vn into the discussion, although I would relish some observations. 
FATHER SAWKINS, from Toledo, dropped in here some few days past and spoke of the death of PATRICK 
FITZPATRICK, one of the oldest 
of the Alumni. Father Sawkins was 
not familiar with the year, but it was 
far back. 
FRANK STEEL, a prominent at­
torney from Akron, said hello in per­
son not so long ago. He was check­
ing up some property affair in this 
community. There is considerable oil 
in this vicinity. Perhaps Frank is 
putting the check and double check on 
some oil deposits. Happy days, Frank. 
Personally, I am awaiting the well 
known outcome. Meanwhile I am 
sending greetings and if your secre­
tary's work is a multiplication of the 
class secretary's work, let me add con­
dolences. 
1911 Fred L. Steers, 1666 First NatL Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois. 
FRED writes that the best he has 
been able to squeeze in between the 
Chicago Club's oustanding Luncheon 
Programs (for which he is responsi­
ble) is the following: 
On the 7th day of April, 1930, ED­WARD L. FIGEL presented the wide world with a future Notre Dame stu­dent, whose name in the registrar's ofiice will appear as William John. Ed is doing his best to help these old United States numerically. Bill's entry makes five boys and two girls for Ed, who may be found meeting the family budget at the Employers' Liability Assurance Corp., 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago. 
E. F. ("WHEELS") HOFFMAN, of Wheeling, West Virginia, has been spending some time in Chicago closing a business deal, which will move him to Pittsburgh. "Smoky City Club" take notice. 
Former Judge JAMES E. DEERY of Indianapolis is now Honorable in the present tense again. He holds the title of City Attorney of Indianapolis. 
N. B.—This is not an invitation to his classmates to visit this fair city. 
BILL HOGAN of 1912, heretofore always of Pittsburgh and Crafton, Pa., is now located in Wheeling, West Virginia. Bill will be remembered as a track man who could run a long way in a short time. 
1916 
T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg, Hammond, Indiana. YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YEAR! 
And one of your Classmates, REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, is the guiding genius of the Commencement program. You'll be checked on—for attendance only. 
From Rev. VINCE MOONEY, 
C.S.C, comes the following interesting 
note: 
I am trying to hold down the job 
of principal of St. Thomas Military 
Academy. I have given up all con­
tact with the College here and will do 
my best to promote the interests of 
the Military Academy. We have about 
300 cadets in the corps. Fine spirit 
and some splendid traditions. The 
only Catholic Military Academy of 
any consequence west of Long Island. 
Despite the pacifist propaganda, I see 
great possibilities for this school. We 
are weeding out the misfits and at the 
present time I am exceeding hopeful 
and enthusiastic. The government has 
given us a i-ating of "essentially 
military school." The May inspection 
may list us as an "honor" school. But 
enough of this—and that. I am send­
ing you a catalogue. Perhaps you can 
slip a little stoi-y into the ALUMNUS 
—not that I may get some publicity 
but in the hope that the N. D. men 
may lend their aid in securing the 
type of student we want. 
1917 John U. Riley, 244 Washington St., Boston, Massachusetts. 
YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YEAR! 
1918 John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave., Escanaba, Michigan. 
YOUR CLASS IS REUNING THIS YE.AE! 
FATHER FRANCIS P. MONIG­HAN is still in Isabel, South Dakota, where he has been ever since his Ordination in 1921. He has about 1500 square miles in his territory, an area including five missions as well as his home parish. Father writes that he has used up six Fords so far and will be ready for his seventh as soon as a little more prosperity hits his section of the counti-y. 
DICK DUNN is assistant manager of the Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Co. and is now located in the offices at Boston, Massachusetts. He is the daddy of five children. 
LOUIS HELLERT lives at 211 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, where he will be glad to hear from some of his old friends. 
ED BREEN deserted FRANK HURLEY recently when he married Miss Bernice Dolan, a St. Mary's girl. They live at 6320 Kenmore Avenue, Chicago. Frank Hurley is responsible for the information that Mrs. Breen "shakes a wicked frying pan," and Frank hopes "to negotiate a few 

il/ay, 1930 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 279 
pleasant dinners with Ed while he is still in a sympathetic mood toward his bachelor friends." 
Francis J. Hurley can be reached at 4750 Sheridan Eoad, Chicago. He will be at Commencement and is try­ing to persuade FRANK HAYES to drive over to South Bend with him to spend a week-end at school sometime this spring. 
JOHN EEUSS is treasurer of the Kokomo Stamp Metal Company. He has been living in Kokomo for the past ten or eleven years. John writes that while in New York recently he spent an evening with CH-4.ELIE JIcCAULEY, who is assistant mana­ger of the Allerton House, and reports that Charlie still sings "Mammy's Little Coal Black Rose" with the same old fervor. 
I do not recall, Jim, whether you had any announceemnt of LOU CENTLIVEE'S marriage in the ALUMNUS. John mentions the fact but gives no details. 
DR. NEIL WHALEN has his offices in the David Whitney Bldg., Detroit, where he has been practicing since his graduation from medical school. Neil e.\pects to be at Notre Dame for a day or so at commence­ment time. 
"BODIE" ANDREWS is prosper­ing on his gi-ape ranch in California. His address is 6801 Chabot road, Oak­land. "Bodie" writes that he has signed a contract to coach at the Uni­versity of California this fall. He re­ports splendid enthusiasm over Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on the Pa­cific coast. He hopes to get back on the campus for commencement next year. 
All members of the Class of 1918, particularly will be pleased with the remarkable success our old classmate Rev. Fr. FEANCIS J. BOLAND, C.S.C, has had with the varsity de­bating team at Notre Dame this sea­son. We are all delighted with his record, but since we all remember his own ability so well, we are not at all surprised. 
1919 

Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., Gary, Indiana. YOUE CLASS IS EEUNING THIS YEAE! 
1920 

Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif. My dear Jim: As Staff Correspondent with a for­eign asignment, I am afraid you will 
have to allow me more time than three days within which to get copy in to your desk. Consequently, when I received the notice on the 2nd that copy must be on your desk on the 5th, it put me a serious and sudden strain on my callow brain. 
However, as you no doubt know, TOM LIEB signed up to coach Loy­ola University, near Los J^ngeles. On Thursday last he was given a wel­coming banquet at the Ambassador Hotel, attended by approximately five hundred individuals from the various walks of life. Present to take the bow in true HoUy^vood form were JACK ELDER, GENE ICENNEDY, GEOEGE CANTILLON, LARRY MCDONALD, of the class of 1912, JIM KELLY, who graduated so far back they hadn't started numbering the classes, P. P. O'BRIEN, oldest living graduate of Los -4ngeles, hav­ing graduated as I understand in 1884. Mr. O'Brien has the unique distinction of being honored by three Presidents, in being reappointed by President Hoover as Postmaster of the Los -Angeles District. The honor is further evidence of his efficiency in that he was not required to take the Civil Sen'ice examination, as is gen­erally required in the case of such appointments, nor did they invoke the age limit rule in Mr. O'Brien's case, since he is somewhat over the age of eligibility for the appointment. 
DR. FR.A.NK BRESLIN, also of the class of 1912, was present, as well as TOM HEARN, who was a classmate of ICNUTE ROCKNE and who inci­dentally introduced Tim Lieb to the assemblage. "WOP" BERRA was very much in evidence, as was JOE DALEY, ED. CUNNINGHAM, JOS­EPH SCOTT, AL SCOTT, FATHER GEORGE SCOTT, and "CUB"SCOTT. Needless to say the Scott family was quite well represented. MONK MAR­SHALL put in an appearance. 
Lieb is showing the effect of his association with Eockne. He is be­coming quite a public speaker, and amused, entertained, and instructed the crowd with a wtty talk. 
The dinner was attended by the Lieutenant Governor of the State, Mr. H. L. Carnahan. The City was represented in the person of the City Attorney. Eepresentatives of all the newspapers, including editors and o^vners, were present, and several bank presidents lent an air of stabil­ity, as well as their financial support toward making the meeting an entire success. 
Lieb finds himself somewhat in the same position as JESS HAEPER did when he went to Notre Dame, and as "SLIP" MADIGAN did when he went to St. Mary's at Oakland. 
Some of your worthy correspond­ents, according to a recent issue of the ALUMNUS, are desirous of knowing the whereabouts of WAL­TER O'KEEFE. Walter is now Uv­ing at 1016 Chevy Chase Eoad, Bev­erly Hills. He is employed by the Eadio Keith Orpheum Studios in Cul­ver City, with his sidekick Bobby Do­lan, writing music for that organiza­tion, and from the evidence of pros­perity, is meeting with every success. 
It may be of interest to know that in one evening I enjoyed in typical stay-at-home style, listening to the radio, when we were permitted to hear CHAELIE DAVIS broadcasting from New York in the Paramount hour, VEEN EICK-A.BD broadcasting from Warner Brothers Studio at Hol­lywood, Walter O'Keefe broadcasting from another Hollywood station, KMTR, the Notre Dame Glee Clah broadcasting from Chicago on the -A-rmour hour. 
I might also add that it is becom­ing tiresome for your Secretary to be requesting the various represen­tatives of this class to send in infor­mation as to their hiding places and accomplishments. To date out of some seventy-five letters sent out, we received replies from only eleven. Evidently the class itself is not in­terested in hearing about the other members, if response is no better than evidenced in the past. Will add that I neglected to enclose self-ad­dressed and stamped envelopes, but I feel that if there is any interest at all it should be sufficient to warrant the expenditure on the part of the various class members to this extent. 
I am enclosing a letter received from Joseph O'Hara. With every good personal wish, I am. Your sincerely, Leo B. Ward. My dear Leo: 
Your letter has been a reminder to me that I have been going to write you for the past several years; but in view of the fact that my modesty warned me that possibly my letter would be used in the ALUMNUS I have so far refrained, knowing full well that anything I may say may be added to, changed, and used against me, especially in view of the opening statement of your letter wherein yon infer that the statement wMch I con­tributed to the Dome during our Senior year, has been the cause of some concern on the part of your good -wife. The only defense I have to that statement is that undoubtedly, my boy, that is the greatest kindness I could do you, because I am sure that that little statement gives Mrs. Ward a feeling that out of all the fascinating influences of others of the fair sex she has been successful in winning your affection. I might further say in my defense that I was aided and abetted by accessories be­fore and after the fact by my many collaborators and operatives. 
I don't know, Leo, as there is much I can say about myself, except to say that I, of course, am married, and Mrs. O'Hara and myself are the parents of three boys—^Pat, Ed, and Terrence. I have bsen State Com­mander of the American Legion here in Minnesota, and outside of football officiating in the fall it is about the only thing which draws any notoriety or is sufficient to be worthy of com­ment. The only other thing I might add is that my business has been good enough to keep me out of the hands of the Sheriff and saificient to permit me to make a settlement of my Endowment Fund pledge. 
I went back to Commencement last June and spent a very enjoyable twenty-four hours there. Some of the changes around school, of course, are remarkable and much to Notre Dame's advantage. 
I hear from DICK LESLIE oc­casionally, and from all reports Dick is getting along splendidly. DUTCH BERGMAN who was in our class, is coaching at Minnesota. He is very popular and I get to see him quite often. I met some of the old grad­uates back at school during Com­mencement, but they were rather few. I also ran into a few in Chicago when officiating, but my recollection is that they have all been reported in your column. 

I am sorrj' that I have rambled on . and exercised the lawyer's privilege 
without saying very much. I would 
be more than happy to give a report 
on our old classmates, but that seems 
to be the usual run of the world be­
ing kind to some and not so kind to 
others. 
I very much appreciate your kind invitation to see you when I am in Los Angeles. There is nothing I would like better than to make a trip to California, and I am hoping that some time in the near future that I will be able to do so. Of course, if I could be fortunate enough to of­ficiate some football game out that way it would make it all the more enjoyable, and I will assure you that I will look you up. If you would be so kind as to give my very kindest regards to AL SCOTT I would ap­preciate it, as well as to any of the other Notre Dame Alumni out there with whom we might be mutually acquainted. 
I wish you and the Scott family the very best of success, and with warm personal regards to you from myself, I am, 
Joseph P. O'Hara. Dear Leo: 
Your letter states you would like a reply. .. . I was greatly pleased to receive your letter and apologize for not returning the compliment before this. As for the news you seek of Notre Dame men, I meet very few ex­cept at football games, Commence­ment and the like. We have four or five in this little town with more attending the University now, so that in a few years we'll have quite an aggregation. 
As for myself, my modesty prevents me from going into details, but I am managing to keep ahead of the sheriff by purveying to the feminine public such fabrics and apparel as are nec­essary to keep them properly clothed and fashionably presentable. I have been doing this for about eight years and as a side-line I am training one seven year old for Notre Dame and one four year old for St. Mary's. Both of them are already plugging for their prospective "alma maters." 
You mention the "wild man" Law­less. I haven't heard from him in seven or eight years except through Christmas cards wTritten by his wife. I think he has taken up his abode again in Wilmington, after having been in half a dozen cities from there to Orlando, Fla. 
I get down to Notre Dame quite fre­quently but not as often as you might think the proximity would permit. I'll probably be there for a day or tvio at Commencement and rather look for­ward to the time when the Class of '20 will organize for a real Reunion. And as its Secretary, may I suggest to you that some work be started along this line. We have been out for 10 years and have not even had a 25% reunion. Talk it up, plan and organize, for a 100% Class Reunion—maybe for next year. 
GENE O'TOOLE, St. Joseph, Mich. ARCHIE WARD was recently pro­moted to the very responsible job of Sports Editor of the Chicago Tribune, succeeding Don Maxwell in that ca­pacity. Archie was formerly sports 
editor of the Rockford Morning Star, later becoming assistant sports editor on the Tribune, where he has been for several years. 
1921 
AMen J. Cusick, 530 Grant St., Denver, Colorado. Dear Al: 
I hope that this letter will inspire or provoke at least a few of the boys of the 1921 Class to contribute some news to the ALUMNUS. Our son Jerry, who is now three years of age, gives promise of playing on the N. D. football team, and our daughter Marva, who is eighteen months of age, can be depended upon to be a rabid rooter. I entered the political arena and succeeded in winning the office of prosecuting attorney in 1928. My experiences at N. D. have proved very valuable in training me for the rough and tumble game of practicing law and I would like to live over my days in St. Joe, Corby, and Sorin Hall. My record for attendance at Commence­ments is good and I hope to see you and the other boys at Commencement this year. Trusting that you are hav­ing your full share of good fortune and success. 
JOE SANFORD, Muskegon, Mich. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., 
Rochester, N. T. 
JIMMY JONES is the headliner this month. A blonde daughter ar­rived at the Jones home a short time ago, and now Jimmy has some hope for the coming generation. This in­crease in the Jones family, which necessarily entails greater e.\pendi­tures, leads Jimmy to believe that HICK CARMODY will now come across with the thirty cents which he has owed Jimmy for the past ten years. 
GENE HEIDELMAN, in the oil business at Los Angeles, is preparing to wage war on the Shell and Stand­ard Oil interests. 
K you have not been interviewed by CLETE LYNCH, you do not live in the Middle West. As a traveling representative of a New York mer­chandise establishment, Clete visits every hamlet, town, and city in the Middle West, and always manages to get in touch with his classmates to give and take the 'low down' on things in general. In justice to Clete, we should state that he is seldom on the receiving end. 
SO S messages to CHARLEY HIRSCHBUHL, RALPH CORYN, JERRY BARRETT and HAROLD BOWDEN for material for this de­

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Colleges are Doing THEIR Share— 
Out of each 1,000,000 without schooling, only 6 attain distinction. 
Out of each 1,000,000 with elementaiy schooling, 24 attain distinction. 
Out of each 1,000,000 with high-school education, 622 attain distinction. 
OUT OF EACH 1,000,000 WITH COLLEGE EDUCATION, 5768 ATTAIN DISTINCTION! 
From "pre-season" contributions—^the date due is Jime 1— the possibilities of the Living Endowment Plan, and its basic principle,, are evident— 
34 Alumni have given or pledged $1386.00 
Now, at even the veiy unusual return from endowment of something over 6 per cent, secured last year for the University Endowment Fund by the veiy astute and generous Board of Lay Trustees, the above amount equals a bank deposit to the credit of the University for the coming year of approximately 
§23,000.00 

But this $23,000 is not lying in a bank. It is working for the 34 Alumni. Therein is the most practical difference between Endowment, in the older sense, and Living Endowment. 
But YOU, and your ANNUAL GIFT, and your GENER­OSITY, determine the degi-ee of LIFE that Notre Dame's Living Endowment will enjoy. 
SEND IN YOUR PLEDGE (AND YOUR DUES) BY JUNE 1! (Football ticket preference will be given those whose dues are paid by August 1.) 
partment remain unswered. We hope 
these men are not in jail. 
BEN SUSEN, adventurer and big 
game hunter, is at present concerned 
with the operation of the Columbia 
Dye Works, Chicago. 
Information leading to the dis­
covery of ART and BOB SHEA 
would be appreciated. Liberal re­
ward. The same applies to EDDIE 
BYRNE, but in this case no reward 
is offered. 
BOB GALLOWAY is practicing law in Silver Creek, N. Y. Just re­cently he was called to Buffalo to work on a case which has received considerable publicity in the news­papers. 
CHET WYNNE, who has been Head Coach at Ci-eighton University, Omaha for the past several years, has left to assume charge of athletics at Auburn University, more commonly known as Alabama Polytechnic Insti­tute. Chet was very successful at Creighton and will undoubtedly put the Southern school on the map. 
Despite hard times many of our class have already signified their in­tention of being present at the Com­mencement ceremonies at Notre Dame, May 30 to June 1. This can easily be accomplished for those who live in the near vincity for the intervening holi­day means the loss of only one-half day for they who are reluctant to leave their business. 
1923 
Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd, 
South Bend, Ind. 
PAUL CASTNER sends in the fol­
lowing welcome news. 
Dear Jim: 
In my travels recently I saw RED SHEA of Dayton, Ohio, and spent a very pleasant evening with him. He is building up quite a law practice for himself in Dayton. 
I also saw BILL KAVANAUGH and talked to GENE JL4.YL over the telephone. I understand that Bill and Gene, and FARRELL JOHNSTON are all getting along very well. 
Red Shea advised me that TOM RILEY, '23, is mayor of Franklin, Ohio. I passed through his honor's domain, but did not get an opportunity to stop and say hello. I did not slow down much, however, as I felt I surely had protection in case some one from the police force might think I was go­ing too fast. 
I also stopped at Pittsburgh and had a pleasant afternoon and evening 
•ivith ELMER LAYDEN. I went out to football practice at Duquesne Uni­versity, where Elmer is coaching, and 
put on a uniform. I found that in 
trying to cut a few capers in a foot­
ball uniform that "things ain't what 
they used to be." Elmer has JOE 
BACH assisting him, and contrary to 
the usual attitude of coaches, they 
both feel quite optimistic about their 
football team. 
I also had occasion to spend an 
evening with Ray Miller in Cleveland. 
I need not say anything about Ray's 
success because I believe it is quite 
generally known that he has made an 
outstanding record as prosecutor in 
the city of Cleveland. He tells me 
that DON and JERRY are in law 
practice together in Cleveland. Jerry 
is there all the time, and Don between 
football seasons. 
1924 James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
JIM MEEHAN has been in Phil­lipsburg, N. J., inspecting some oil locomotives for New York and Chi­cago use, but will be back in Erie at the G-E Co. plant again when you read this. Jim met some of the N. D. boys with the IngersoU-Rand Co., makers of the oilbumers, BEN BOURNE, '26, in the experimental engineering di^^sion, and TOM BOV, '28, in the engineering division. Jim says he's planning to help fill the Stadium this fall. 
1925 John W. Scallan, Pullman Co, 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, lU. 
SCALLAN breaks what is prac­tically a precedent, to say that ROS­WELL "GUS" OEHM is vdth the Pullman Car & Mfg. Co., in Pullman, 111. 
DR. CHARLES E. GUTH and Mrs. Guth of Elyria, 0,, will return from the 5-Year Reunion, also the occasion of their first wedding anniversary. Doc can derive a great deal of pleas­ure and profit from the "veterans" of the Class who will be back. 
J. WILLARD JONES and his mother, Mrs. Celia Jones, of Dixon, 111., have Just announced the opening of the new Jones Funeral Home, 204 Ottawa Ave., Dixon. From inside in­formation, this is the finest funeral home in Northern Illinois. We expect Willard back for the Reunion with a sign on his car, "It's easier to die in Dixon." 
Humphrey J. Lynch, Bar Bldg., White Plains, N. Y., announces to the world the important development in his law business through the acquisi­tion of two new partners, including MR. JOHN P. LYNCH, formerly with Baldwin, Hutchens & Todd. The firm is engaged in the general practice of law. 
BEN RESTING is with a general contracting firm in Toledo and is put­ting new life into the construction of a building to get it up in time for the Reunion. Ben hopes to see a record turn-out here. 
CHARLIE DONAHUE is pushing the interests of New York's Picture Newspaper in the new News Build­ing, 220 E. 42nd St. 
BOB HOWLAND writes on a bus­iness matter. If Bob doesn't use that old pass racket on the M-P to show up for the Reunion, L. W. Baldwin is going to miss a valued employee. 
BILL KRIDER writes from P. 0. 
Box 672, Cleveland, the Great Atlantic 
& Pacific Tea Co., saying: 
"During the past five years I have 
not been in as close a touch with the 
University as I would like to have 
been, but it is my ambition to return 
this spring and meet my Classmates 
and become closely associated with 
them and remain so in the future. I 
sincerely hope you will make evei-y 
effort to have as many of the Class of 
1925 return as possible." 
Which brings up the point—more than fifty fellows have ali-eady sent in cards saying they'll be back. In­variably they say to meet you, the fellow they knew in school. Lots of you can make it as easily, or more so, as those who have signed up. You're unfair to them, in addition to gypping yourself of one big time, if you don't show up. 
PAUL SAGSTETTER says that the golf tournament, with its Cup, and lots of other prizes, is all set to start. If you haven't entered, get in. BRING YOUR OWN CLUBS, as there are none definitely available here. 
BILL VOOR also says to bring your own appetites. He has a banquet ar­ranged that is qualified to handle any and all that present themselves, des­pite the largeness of that order if the evidence of five years ago is admissi­ble. 
Evei-ything is set HERE. Now— it's up to you! This is the ONLY FIVE-YEAR REUNION of the CLASS OF '25. Don't forget that. Being here and meeting the gang is not silly or sentimental in the lately exploited sense of Class Reunion. It's common friendship. If that means anything to you—and it will in great­er measure from now on—^be here. There's a room for you on the campus with the gang. 

Maij, 1930 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 283 
COMMENCEMENT 
MAY30-MAY31-JUNE1. ROOM ON THE CAMPUS-FREE 
One Day 
Three Days 
$1.00 

GOLF on UNIVERSITY COURSE 50c 
Annual Alumni Banquet--No Charge Notre Dame - Big Ten (Wis.) Baseball, 50c Rooms Will Be Assigned by Classes - New Halls! Memorial Day Field Mass, May 30, 9:00 A. M. Ml ) Central Standard Time < IK 
THE UNIVERSITY THEATRE WILL PRESENT "JOURNEY'S END." CONCERTS BY THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION AND THE NOTRE DAME BANDS. THE UNIVERSITY GLEE CLUB WILL GIVE CONCERT SATURDAY, MAY 31. FIRST ANNUAL MEETING OF LOCAL CLUB COUNCIL ON SATURDAY, MAY 31. MONOGRAM LUNCHEON, SUNDAY, JUNE 1, FAMOUS '24 TEAM BACK for REUNION. CLAUDE G. BOWERS WILL GIVE COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS ON SUNDAY, JUNE 1. FR. JOHN BURKE, of the N.C.W.C, WILL GIVE THE BACCALAUREATE, JUNE 1. REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL., C.S.C, PRESIDENT, WILL SPEAK AGAIN THIS YEAR. COL. HOYNES WILL BE HONORARY MARSHAL OF THE MEMORIAL DAY PROGRAM. YOU HAVE AN EXTRA DAY TO ATTEND WITHOUT AFFECTING YOUR BUSINESS. THE DIX REUNION CLASSES ARE THE "WAR CLASSES"—FRIDAY IS THEIR DAY! The new officers of the Association take the reins Sunday, June 1. The Class of 1930 is officially inducted to membership Sunday, June 1. The University opens its doors to you once more. Come in. 
The program is full. The time is convenient. Transportation is easy. 
BRING YOUR OWN GOLF CLUBS 
ADULT EDUCATION POSTGRADUATE TRAVEL 
After coilece should come thoughtful travel pegKing douTi the results of undergraduate studies—not desultory wandering. Most discriminating travelers recognize the need of expert asistsnce in the mechanics of travel. Intellectual leadership is equally im­portant. A tour of Europe intelligently planned ,'and under the guidance of specialists will crystallize and supplement your entire college course. 
The Bureau of University Travel, incorpor­ated as an educational institution without stock, dividends or commercial profit, offers such an opportunity. 
The leaders are scholars and gentlemen who hold or have held important academic posi­tions. 
Send for announcements. 
The Bureau of University Travel 
88 Boyd Street Newton, Mass. 
1926 
Gerald W. Hayes, Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co^ Evanston, III. My dear Jim: 
I had a pleasant afternoon with JIMMY RONAN yesterday. We talked over class news and found it possible to "transfuse" our column to relieve the anemia. Yet there is little of note to report from the byways. The boys simply ^vill not write. For instance, what has happened to such fellows as FRANK BON, JERRY Mc-GINLEY and PAUL FLEMING? 
Jimmy and I ran over the boys who earn their salt in Chicago in this fashion. First on the alphabetical list is HARRY ABRAMS who is em­ployed by the Manhattan Rubber Company and who resides at 6151 Winthrop Ave. . . JOE BAILEY is met occasionally. Joe, when I last saw him, was with the Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Company .. . It is close to a year now since I saw HER­BERT BURT—through my fault!— but I understand he is still tramping the state, bonding for the Investment Banking Company .. . I heard some­body mention BOB CARNEY'S name a few days ago. He is lost. . . One of our recent benedicts, FRANK "LEW" CODY, works for the Federal Neon Company not far from my school and yet I haven't managed to lunch with him as yet . . . TOM FARRELL, when he was in town dur­ing the winter, and I called on ANDY CONLIN at the P. J. Collins Coal 

Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CLEVELAND: Mondays—year round luncheon meetings—^the Allerton 
NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 East 38th Street. 
CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—^Ivory Room, Mandel's. 
DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue. 
PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—12:15—Girabel's Dining Room, 6th Avenue and Smithfield Street. 
LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—lnncheon—12:15—University Club. 
CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon-Broadway Hotel. 
NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­ark Athletic Club. 
INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call H. R. Dempf, 400 M. E. Gaylor Bldg., Louisville. 
WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, 
December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, 
1207 Wells Street. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. Call Dudley Shively, Associates Bldg., South Bend. 
DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. 
JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 Ruby Street, for details. 
NOETHERN CALIFOENIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. 
FOET WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McEieman, secretary. 
EOCHESTEE: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­merce Private Dining Boom. 
SYKACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. 
Company. Andy is studying the coal business and is progressing to good things rapidly . . . Another of our coal men is HERB EGGERT. Herb who is also married, recently trans­ferred from St. Louis to Chicago and is holding an enviable place with the Big Ben people . . . Until recently FRAN CROWLEY was frequently seen along State St. but now seems to have made his exitus . . . 
BILL DOOLE Y still labors for the Northern Indiana Power and Public Utilities at Hammond and occasion­ally finds time to attend some of the Chicago Club activities . . . BILL DORGAN, Ronan tells me, is also in town and is working for the Union Carbide . . . LES HEGELE—mys­terio!—is in the law game on La-Salle St. when not at home in Mel­rose Park—the country . . . ED M.A.NDEVILLE lives on Austin Boul­evard across the street from Oak Park and during the working day is with the Western Electric . . . PAUL BENANTE on Universal Night was seen in the company of the trium­virate, HARVEY, GEBBEN and BROWN... BOB"R.Q."MURPHY very seldom makes his appearance, but he is kept quite active with the Roche Advertising Company . . . FRANK NEES, the blonde, is selling auto parts somewhere in the city and lives in another where—Edgecomb Place . . . MARK MOONEY has made Chicago his home for the past few years and believes in Copeland Refrigerators. 
Then among the boys I see more frequently: GEORGE HARTNETT hasn't felt any depression in the pea­nut game. He's at home at 1808 Far-well. . . . JOHN McMULLAN con­tinues in the potato world and man­ages to make frequent business jour­neys to distant sticks. John has seen many Notre Dame men on these trips and he has promised an account for the next ALUMNUS. .. . I occasion­ally see DUTCH O'DAY when he comes in from Detroit. George is some pow^er with the Gas Steam Radiator Company across from Wind­sor, but he hasn't completely severed his affiliations here. Dutch has a splendid representative of '26's second generation. . . . AET BIDWELL'S Joe is another. He's tvnce as big as the old man and I really believe could take the erstwhile harrier down the line. Art, by the way, is now skipper of a new firm which bears his name and which deals in office supplies. The offices are in Plymouth Court. . . . JERRY McDEEMOTT still keeps ac­count of all the General Outdoor signs 
in the near, far and unkno\\Ti comers 
of the city. . . . JIM KELLEGHAN, 
when he is not busy with the Wall 
Street Journal or his roughneck on 
the North Side, edits the Quad TFran­
gles, the official sheet of the Chicago 
Club. . . . JOHN SWEENEY has 
moved into Sam Insull's new shack on 
Wacker Drive. The Commonwealth 
Edison, incidentally, took a floor or 
two in the new Civic Opera with 
Honest John. . . . FRANK WALSH 
is a busy insurance man on LaSalle 
Street. 
TOM LEAHY has just finished or is about to finish his preliminary medical work and, I understand, will take up residence at Mercy Hospital in this city in July. Tom is about to go "blah," too. URB GEBHARD is now at Milwaukee County Hospital in Milwaukee. Will you change his ad­dress, Jim? JIMMY STACK is still the renowned ambulance surgeon of St. Vincent's in New York City, but recently he proved himself a credit to Northwestern and Notre Dame by writing a high place in competitive examinations for house-officership at Bellevue. I have no recent dope on his plans. .. . It was a great treat to see mK E MURRAY here in town about a month ago, although the occasion was sorrowful—^Mike ac­companying his sister Stella's body to Green Bay. I do not know, Jim, if you had word of this, but I am sure that many of the boys ^vill want to offer an Ave or two for Stella. As JOHN TUOHY put it, JVUke looks like a German scientist. In no way has Hai-vard affected him, but his trip abroad last summer left him the "Stu­dent Prince." And Mike has promised to write! ! ! WAE KANE finishes his medical course at Harvard this year. He might at least write and tell us where he intends to interne. .. . To use JOHN WALLACE'S fa­vorite expression, "with the help of the Lord and a fast backfield" yours truly will get an M. D. next Decem­ber. Temjnis fugit but it can't fugit quickly enough. 
Once in a while I catch up with DUCKY IHLLER. Northwestern honors him with a law degree this coming month. Ducky will look great before the "bar." Paul E. (there are darn few who know his first name) is living at the Devonshire Hotel with FRANK KLASS, class '27. . . . Fin­ally I have heard from NORB KAV­ANAUGH. It was a telegraphic let­ter, giving not too much news but enough to make me happy that he is now well and fit. Norb was about to go into California to take the bar. 
There is no doubt that by this time he is licensed to practice in that state. . . . Our other lawyer friend, LES LOVIER—he is not in Chicago and I may mention his name with impunity —^busies himself in Rome, New York. I had heard that he had been laid up for a few days with a "bum" limb, but by this time I suppose, he is rushing the leg to its former good health. 
And here is real news! LEO GOR­MAN, JOE MCCARTNEY and the rest of our boys in Washington are to be ordained June 24th, and BERNIE COUGHLIN takes orders in St. Paul on June 28th. These are real events and I wish I could write more about them. Perhaps the boys could take time out from learning the mass and give us the particulars. And -I won­der about KEITHEN ROCHE. I suppose I should call him "Father," but I'll be darned if I will. I'll wait until he gets the purple. Do you know, Jim, if Keith is back in the states? (Back in July, Jerry.) He could give us news concerning JIMMY MORAN and the other boys at the American College. 
This, Jim, is a terrible hash, but it is done hurriedly during time stolen from my little white room in another part of the factory. If only a few of the fellows co-operate this month, we'll finish the year with a bang. 
Bestest, JERRY. 
1927 
Ed DeClercq, Secretary 
8126 Drexel Blvd, Chicago 

This interesting letter came from ED DE CLEECQ last month just too late to make the issue: 
"Dear Jim: Something certainly would be radically wrong with me if I would not write after the defense I received from my unknown friend in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. 
"AET MONACO wrote in and said that he is still single and in New York, but is thinking over the proposi­tion of getting married. I really won­der if some girl hasn't designs on Art. He states he meets CHAELIE Mc­DEEMOTT quite often and that he saw JIMjnr STACK, who is serving his internship at St. Vincent's Hos­pital, N. Y. C. Art also bumps into BOB SHIELDS occasionally. It seems Bob is known as a slugger for the General Motors Co. 
GUY BEADLEY reports that he has traveled considerably since gradu­ation in following out the work of an engineer. The last location in which he was working was in Arkansas. 
I heard from FEANK HAGEN­BARTH also during the past month. He is coming along in fine shape. Says 
286 Slaij, 19S0
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
-Join Hancock Serla • 
Provide Time 
for travel or your hobby 
are not the only one who dreams of laying aside business or pro­fessional duties in due course and enjoying a long, carefree trip or indulging your favorite hobby. Thousands are actually assuring themselves of extend­ed carefree time before the sunset of life, by means of Life Insurance Endowments and Annuities. 
-C-«C->A.. _J ­
LIFE INSURANCECoMPAtfr* 
Inquiry Bureau, 197 Clarendon St. Boston. Mass. Please send your booklet, "This Matter of Success." 
Address __. ™ __«— 
Ocer Sixtf/Settn Yean in Businca ­
he just received a letter from HARRY LYDDANE who is located at present in Scarsdale, N. Y. (89 Brite St) . Frank has heard from GENE O'BRIEN who is in LaCrosse, Wis., and is holding the town against the Redskins. Frank is on record also as having met JACK P.ATTON, in Mitchell, So. Dakota. Jack is assist­ant cashier in one of the larger banks there. He certainly can lay a claim to success for getting that far in two and a half years. 
It seems that JOE BOLAND is be­ginning to waste away as he is down to 215 pounds. 
MIKE MCDERMOTT and TONY G.ANDOLFI are both getting along great in Chicago. It is my pleasure to see these boys quite frequently. 

BOB NICKELLS and my brother JERRY, both '28, are with Standard Brands, Inc., Jerry in Milwaukee and Bob in Chicago. JOE WILLIAMS, '26, is also with the Company, now in Chicago. 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Notre Dam^ Ind,, 
Secretary. 

A number of the '28 men have brothers on the campus who came to my aid this month with some news concerning their long lost brothers. John Bannon informs me that his brother BOB B-ANNON has been a graduate assistant at the Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology since he left Notre Dame. Bob has already received his master's degree and is 
now working on his doctorate. BOB 
KIRBY'S brother keeps me posted on 
Bob's activities as an energetic young 

undertaker in Indianapolis. Ed.Sei­ter tells that JOHN SEITER and D.AN BR.ADLEY are kept busy with their work at Cornell Medical School. I met -AUGIE GR.AMS' brother the other day, and was glad to hear that -A.ugie and his wife have returned to LaCrosse, Wisconsin, where Augie is in the wholesale feed business. The younger Sargus looks enough like GEORGE to make a '28 man wonder if George is still about the campus. George is very successful, I under­stand, as a business man in Bellaire, Ohio. Then there is a young Allen, who is distinguishing himself scho­lastically as did his brother JIM. He does not, however, equal Jim when it comes to weight. I must not forget to mention that we have another Davis who tells the same old West Virginia stories that HENRY used to keep us spell-bound with in good old Lyons subway. 
I was in Chicago long enough at Easter time to see a few of the old gang. I stopped with JOE BRAN­NON at the New Lawrence where he has a studio, and keeps busy by free­lancing in the advertising game. ED. McSWEENEY is in the advertis­ing department at Sears Roebuck. VINCE DUCEY, FRANK CREA­DON and RAY MULLIGAN were very much present at the Chicago Club dance at the Congress. Frank and Ray are at Western Electric. Frank promised a long letter for the column sometime soon. I picked up the report the other day that .ART STENIUS is very popular as an in­structor in the speech department of Western High School in Detroit. 
I had a letter from FRED RUIZ from lll-15th -Ave. South, Napa, Idaho, where he is teaching in High School. Fred wanted to know where he could locate this man PHALIN. Howie has just about reached the end of his Western tour now as he is located in Los Angeles at the Wm. Penn Hotel, West Eighth St. at Lake. Howie says that he is located per­manently there now, but we all know him too well to believe that he could be permanently located anyivhere. 
GEORGE KIENER writes from 1569 Clarence Ave., Lakewood, Ohio, and sends his best regards to the fellows. George is now working on his M.A. Degree, at Western Reserve University. 
Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
Investment Securities 
CHASE NATIONAL BANK BUILDING TWENTY PINE STREET NEW YORK CITY 
© 
HARRY J. CULLEN, '23 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Business and Professional Directory 
iiiiiiitiiiitiiiiniiiitiiiniiiiiMiititiKMiiuiMiiiiiiiuiiiiiMiiiitniiutiiiHMM* 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
lllMlllllllllllllllliniMIIMnilMllllllliiiiiiMIMItlllllllllll 
Established 1911 
COOPER-KANALEY and CO. 
FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Tel. Franklin 0353. 

Illlllllllll litlll 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
POLAR ICE & FUEL COMPANY 
John (Ike) Voedisch, '27 
Ass't Manager 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
Law Offices 
HAMILTON & KRAMER 
701-3 HUNTINGTON BANK BLDG. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
DONALD M. HAMILTON, '12 

tliaiiitiiii IIIII1II imiiiiiiiiiittfKdftiiitft • 
YOUR N. D. FRIENDS Want to Do Business With You. 
This is One of Your First Opportunities to Profit as Alumni. 

(iltMIIf»iMJII(lli>iilt»ll(tllMlliiiiill)ltl)1liiiiiiilllilll)llllii 
THE NEW ALUMNUS is a Better but Costlier Magazine. 
Send Copy for the Next Two Issues to 
J. E. ARMSTRONG Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Unclaimed Mail 

(From time to time, lists like this will appear. You will confer a favor on these men and the Association by sending in their present address. The Association has not the facilities for tracing lost members.) 
Simon, Urban A.—'26 Sinnot, Myles Hilt—'10 Smith, George Henrj^—'8a Smith, Paul Joseph—'16 Somers, Michael F.—'11 Stock, George B.—'23 Smith, Henry S.—'89 Snvder, Henry B.—'16 Soldani, George H.—O.S.'16-19 Spencer, Raymond C.—'28 Spencer, LeRoy—'16 Spillane, John 0.—'17 Stanley, Basil L.—'27 Steele, Thomas E.—'87 Steiss, Edmund G.—'14 Steyskal, Norman—'27 Stickney, Harold J.—'17 Stoakes, Lawrence M.—'10 Stopper, Anthony J.—^"06 Strickel, Robert T.—'28 Sullivan, Daniel E.—'14 Sullivan, Daniel E.—'22 Sullivan, James E.—'09 Sullivan, Joseph S.—'29 Sullivan, Leon E.—'24 Swift, Leonard J.—'17 Swift, Paul F.—'IS Sweeney, Clement F.—'26 Szalewski, Rev. M.—'01 Talcott, Baughan H.—'11 Tavlor, Hon. Hannis—'09 Theissen, Victor W.—'27 Thome, Frost—'94 Tierney, Harry B.—'14 Ting, Paul S.—'21 Tobin, Thos. J.—07 Toriello, Jose A.—'27 Trevino, Ricardo A.—'05 Trochanowski, Walter—'26 Turner, Wm. W.—'16 Ulrich, Maurua J.—'06 Valdes, Joseph E.—'06 Valker, Leo I.—'20 Vallez, Arthur H.—'22 Van Ackeren, Paul M.—'20 Velia, Alton C—'26 Vera, Jesse E.—'11 Vial, Manuel —'21 Wagner, John Herman—'26 Wagoner, John C.—'87 Walker, John B.—'95 Walsh, Edward J.—'00 Walsh, Herbert M.—'20 Walsh, Leo W.—'28 Walsh, Thomas—'17 Walsh, Vincent H.—'20 Walters, J. Bryan—'25 Washburn, George E.—'11 Weadock, Louis T.—'99 Weiss, Henry E.—'OS 
(To be contviaui.) 
DAYTON, OHIO 
JOSEPH B. MURPHY, '11 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 309-15 Mutual Home Bldg. Dayton, Ohio 
Murphy & Murphy 

iiiiiiti I iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
NEW YORK CITY 

• IIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIItllDllllltlllDIHIIIIUtllHltlltlttlllllllllia 
WILLIAM A. DAUNT 
itiuuiittMutiiuMtutitmtti-
CORRECT EQUIPMENT for any ATHLETIC SPORT 

518 Fifth Ave. 105 Nassau St. 28 New Street 
Manhattan Refr^erating Co. 

Union Tennmal Cold Storage Company 
Refrigerating Company 
Offices: 525 West Street, N. Y. C. 
RAY MOCK informs me that he has enjoyed t?>e year at St. Thomas where he has been coaching and teaching. Ray sees DENNY DALY, BOB FOGERTY and JOE BENDA quite often. I Will see that you re­ceive that letter soon, Ray, "from the very heart of creation—Notre Dame." 
There are a few places in South Bend where one can always depend on finding a few '2S men. Strange as it may seem, one of those places is the last car on the Mishawaka street car line. I can always depend on finding my pal COACH JONES, and BOB GRESSER there. Bob is now located in South Bend with the Oliver Farm Implement Company. 
I hope to see a number of '28 men back for Commencement so we can have a real get-together and talk over old times. There will be a few '28 men who will receive degrees. Precautions will be taken to see that the platform is sirong enough to hold JIM ALLEN when he receives his de­gree in Law. BOB GRANT and BILL KONOP will also receive their 
LL.D. DICK WEPPNER \v\\\ re­ceive his M.S. degree. Dick has de­cided to take more than one degree that week. Rumor has it that he is to be married on May 27, in Cleve­land. I will sign off now until I see you June first. 
1929 

Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin 
St, Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 

"Typhoid, malaria and insurance men,—and the deadliest of these is insurance men." This is the text for this month's sermon, mainly because JOHN ABIJA DAVIS and none other than PHIL QUINN have recently an­nounced their connection with the Penn MutuaL The "two of them" were in conference in Chicago only last week concerning the ways and means of luring t\venty-niners into their clutches. The potency of the meeting can be judged by the fact that DAVIS immediately stepped forth and peddled a twenty-five thousand dollar policy . . . and seems to be on The High Road. 
Mention of Davis reminds us of CHARLIE DAVIS, '21, and of the fact that it was LANE who inter­viewed Charlie for the Indianapolis Times the other day just before Charlie started east to begin his tour for the Publix Theatres ... . 
Mention of Publix Theatres (to fol­low the deadly circle) is bound to bring up the subject of BILL O'CON­NOR. Now don't ask why! Bill wears and advises the derby for all "what-ho" occasions . . . and they say that he knows his groceries; but there, that's probably just a rotten pun on the fact that Bill is the leading man for the M. O'Connor Company, Pro­visioners. . . . 
Without blushing or anything of the sort, PHIL QUINN reports that he has seen BILL DOWDALL recently. He reports further that Dowdall is advancing rapidly in the legal pro­fession .. . also that VINCE DUCEY is "doing nicely" with the Central Illinois Company . . . further, that TONY KOPECKY is a big success,— but there Phil's dope runs out and leaves us guessing as to what Tony's doing. Quick Watson, the needle! 
Big PRANK MCCARTHY has (1st) been advanced to the position of senior accountant, and (2nd) has taken up golf with BOB KIEBY, (neither of which items is news) ; but (3rd) Frank is enamoured—and THAT is news, now isn't it Professor Armstrong? 
DAVE LEHMANN is getting bet­ter and better if his printed matter in Judge is any (and it is) criteria. . . . ^^^lich has nothing whatever to do with the fact that WALTER GREER sent the secretary a wow of a green-enveloped card on the occa­
sion of Saint Patrick's day. Evi­
dently Walt celebrated the event too. 
JIMMIE SCHMURR and wee WIL­
LIE BROWN, barristers extraor­
dinary of Elkhart, Indiana, recently 

slipped into Indianapolis long enough 
to have the secretary move their ad­
mission to the Supreme Court of the 
sovereign state. They report TOM 
HAPPER, HENRY. HASLEY, RUS­
SEL KUHN, and JHKE COUREY as 
taking care of the northern part of 
the state in fine fashion. 
Evidently JOE HEMPHLING and YACH GILBERT are both very suc­cessful in their respective endeavors. This because Joe was able to send ye sec., a case (which indicates that Hemphling has a lot of them) and since it was Yach's matter it would seem that he is making a lot of money to be able to hire Joe. —Q. E. D. 
JOHNNY SIMONES drops a note and adds that he expects to enter the 
U. of Iowa Medical School next fall. 
FEANKLYN DOAN is rapidly be­coming one of the N. D. headliners in the publications world. Frank has had considerable mention in these columns, but why not? Now comes word that the American Magazine, Forbes, and Fortune, are among the magazines to bear the Doan by-line. 
Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
Manufacturers of 
Tumbling Mill Stars for Gray Iron Emery Wheel Dressers 
Foundries 

Sand Blast Nozzles for Malleable Iron 
Annealing Pots Foundries. 

Miscellaneous White Iron Castings 
A.F.(AL)FRIES,'16 
Vice-Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 





