The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
"v^ 
*->-"•' 
I J j-*^.» 
O-il v^s^^-i? 
fV 
CAMPUS CRISIS The Diminishing Dollar 


gWlMMP 
May 1968 June 
^ 
-y. -r 
>­
r^dSSEi 

"I recommend we clear up and diarrhea of the pen . . 
ABOUT RELIGION ON CAMPUS It would seem there are those on the Campus who are just finding out that the Catholic Church is and has been a part of Christianity for cen­turies and, in fact, is the only true Christian religion. I have had the privilege of meeting, knowing and working with ND men for many years and they are clearly leaders of Christianity and very fine Catholic Americans. They have worked diligently for God, family and countr)- for years now. Quite frankly we resent young gentlemen presently attending the University trying to tell us we haven't been Catholic and we haven't been Christian and we don't know what we are doing. If there arc young priests on the Campus who believe the ideals ex­pressed in the article are true, then it's about time they found out more about this whole world than they presently know. Rev. Louis Putz CSG knows better and I'm not concerned about comments that he may have made which might have been taken out of context to be used in the arti­cle. From what I have been hearing about the student body of late, it would appear to me that it's about time the University returned to a position of discipline which would intelligently make the student under­stand that he is there to learn and not to teach; that he is there to follow and not lead: that he is subordinate and not dictatorial and that if he doesn't like it he can go elsewhere because he wouldn't make the type of ND man that he should be proud of and the University would like to be proud of in the future. In closing I might recommend that along with the old-time religion we also exercise one of the old remedies and take a dose of intellectual castor oil and clear up the constipation of the brain and diarrhea of the pen which is so clearly depicted in articles of the type hereinto referred. 
—Roymond J. l^ariin 'SO Portland, Ore. 
After being subjected to the first 20 pages of the March-.^pril issue of the ND -ALUMNUS, I wonder: What is a University? What is a Catholic Uni­versity? What is the purpose of a University? And just who in hell should be in charge of a Catholic University? 
Either ND should be operated as a Catholic University or chitnge its name. 
—Leo C. Heringer '24 Normal, III. 
Many Alumni doubtless were grate­ful for last issues's "Religion on Campus: to be Catholic or Chris­tian?" I know I was. From the entire article, the most heartening passage was the one describing student pro­test over the proposed $2 million chapel to be constructed among the new high-rise dormitories. The funda­
the constipation of the brain ." 
I mental sanity of this protest shoidd I come as a cause for rejoicing for all : those concerned with values at ND. ! Surely those students who really wish ! to participate in the Mass can leg it I an extra few blocks to the dozen or so : chapels already functional. Proposing ! to build yet another ND chapel, in I the era of the war on poverty, re­; fleets a schizophrenia ND should have ] been done with years ago. i —WiHiom L. Cooke MD 'S7 
Dallas 

i ABOUT PACIFISM AND WAR I Concerning Gary Jones '65 letter I which appeared in the last issue of the 1 ALUMNUS wherein he says he is a I member of the Third Order of St. ! Francis, or was when he was a stu­j dent, and that "in his Rule Saint ; Francis says the members are not to I bear arms," I'd like to state the way { he presents his stand is a bit confusing j and misleading. It is possible he has : taken his statements out of historical '• context and applied them to 1968. i Without going into the historical I origin, it is possible that in his days, ; St. Francis may have had his members : live under certain restrictions which i no longer apply. But I was also a : member of the Third Order here on 
The ALUMNUS welcomes all letters regarding the University and its Alumni but reserves the right to edit them to meet space limitations. Short letters stand the best chance of publication. 
Camous when I was a student, and 
later I returned to join the faculty 
and accept the post of faculty moder­
ator. And I never once knew, or had 
; been taught, or taught others, that as 
: members of the Third Order of St. 
Francis they were not to bear arms. 
Mr. Jones' statements do not seem 
to be substantiated by the fine record 
of one of our alumni, Vince Mac-
Aloon, who was an excellent leader 
i and member of the Third Order here 
i on Campus in his and my student 
: days, and is still one of the lay-leadeis 
i in the Third Order. Vince was in the 
I service, and not only was a member 
of the Third Order while in the US 
; military, but is responsible for many 
• converts which he prepared himseif i while he was a GI. And now he is : founder and director of the ND Hos-j pitality Headquarters in Rome. ' I do not like war any more than I Gary Jones, I am sure. I am for the ! peace of Christ too. But sometimes I LOVE of country may require support 
of country in things we would rather not see take place. 
—Rev Robert J. Lochner CSC '37 Notre Dome 
.\s a veteran of the Vietnamese con­
flict, I was disturbed to read the 
recent anti-war diatribe of my former 
I classmate, David Clennon. Mr. Clen-
I non finds supporters of the war guilty 
• of "mindless patriotism" which "con­tributes to the overdevelopment of our military muscle." As a remedy, he advocates turning in draft cards thereby signifying refusal to "coop­erate in a system of mass murder." Mr. Clennon's assertions are an ex­ercise in mindless rhetoric. His pro­posal of enlightened resistance is typical of those misdirected individuals who demand peace at any price. 
When are they going to realize that the Vietnam war is a part of an organized plan of Communist aggres­sion designed to eventually overthrow the US? Our government has decided to make its stand in Vietnam, That decision is made and it is irrevocable. It is up to all responsible citizens to insure that the challenge of Com­mimist aggression is met NOW! 
Oiu- military muscle must not be subverted by draft dodgers like Mr. Clennon. Any such action clearly contributes to a system of mass sur­render. 
—James fi. Kelly '6S Yonkers, NY 
In the March-April ALUMNUS David Clennon '65 expresses what he terms a minority opinion opposing the war in Vietnam and the existence of ROTC units at ND. Clennon's emotional let­ter was prompted by the battlefield death of Army Lt. Jim Pavlicek, a classmate of his — and of mine. Clen­non did not know Jim Pavlicek, but I knew him from our mutual partici­pation in the ROTC program. 
Mr. Clennon would subordinate all other considerations to his one prin­cipal concern — material existence. Christianity, teaching that the ulti­mate good is not in the corporeal life but in the spiritual, seems to disagree. The Christian martyrs seem to dis­agree. The men who fought Nazism in World War II, many of them prod­ucts of ROTC at ND, seem to dis­agree. The men presently enrolled in the ND ROTC programs seem to dis­agree. So perhaps Mr. Clennon, with his part-time pacifism, part-time Christianity, tj in the minority of ND Alumni. I certainly hope so! 
—John C. Zink '65 South Bend 
ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS 
My sudden interest in the Univer­sity is provoked by the ND Club of NYC and the failure of its president to become meaningfully involved in the New York Athletic Club flap en­gineered by Newsweek's Ken Wood­ward, a classmate of mine. To borrow a word from the March-April issue of ALUMNUS, how "special" is the ND man who measures his interest in the cause of human rights on the basis of Woodward's affiliation with the NYC Club? 
Presiunably Pres. John McNamara would have been enthusiastic about the effort to crack the racist rule of membership in his city's athletic club, if Woodward had drawn beer at the ND Club picnic. 
The clincher is McNamara's curios­ity about Woodward's support of the Challenge and SUMMA fund drives. Not only is this none of McNamara's business, it is not germane to the is­sue. It is rather an example of the 1931 brand of "checkbook faith" that has separated Catholicism from most American Negroes. 
—Phil Donofiue '57 
Doyfon 

May 1968 June Vol. 46 No. 3 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 

Ambrose F. Dudley Jr '43 HONORARY PRESIDENT Richard A. Rosenthal '54 
PRESIDENT William D. Kavanaugh '27 VICE-PRESIDENT William F. Kerwin Jr '40 
VICE-PRESIDENT Leo V. Turgeon '42 VICE-PRESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 

MAGAZINE STAFF 

John P. Thurin '59 
EDITOR June Shassere Dick Riley '68 Sheila Dierks William Mitchell '71 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. Bruce Harlan '49 
CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER Richard Stevens '51 Peter McGrath '70 Richard Hunt '69 Don Dempsey '71 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
ALUMNI BOARD OF DIREaORS DIREaORS TO 1969 
William D. Kavanaugh '27 BUDGET 3445 Ordway St. NW Washington, DC 20016 
William F. Kerwin Jr '40 ADMISSIONS 1108 Emilie St. Green Bay, Wis. 54301 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54 PUBLIC RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS P.O. Box 200 South Bend. Ind. 46624 
Leo V. Turgeon '42 -ATHLETIC 3731 Stocker St. Los Angeles, Calif. 90008 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 

Edward G. Cantwell '24 700 Binns Blvd. Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edward B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54 5 The Maples Roslyn Estates, NY 11576 
John J. Reidy '27 11850 Edgewater Dr. Lakewood, Ohio 44107 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 426 Dover Ave. LaGrange Park, 111. 60525 
DIREaORS TO 1971 

W. Jerome Kane '38 P.O. Box 3707 Seattle, Wash. 98124 
Walter M. Langford '30 1315 Otsego St. South Bend. Ind. 46617 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 1113 Rocky River Rd. Houston, Texas 77002 
Francis J. AVilson '28 6105 Howe St. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219 
Cover Story page 13 
While you're trying to figure out what happened to the old-time college student, try also to figure out what happened to the old-time buck which carried the campus community a long way, back when . . . The task isn't an easy one. For example, how do you measure in dollars and cents the value of a highly aesthetic, three-hour course in Greek culture? Or better yet, how do you go about assessing individuals and departments their share of the cost to operate the library? But that's not the end of your assignment. The grabber comes when you learn that to have a course in Greek culture, to operate a library and to merely open your doors every day is costing you about three times what it did ten years ago. And the prospects for the next four years are even more disheartening. For some educational communities, the perplexing money situation is cause for greater alarm than today's student unrest. Our story, "CAMPUS CRISIS: The Diminishing Dollar," reflects the financial condi­tion at Notre Dame as well as the so-called money crisis at other US colleges. 
The University page 4 
As you go about your treasure hunt, you'll also find the answer to . . . what are the students up to now? How arc the high-rise dormitories coming along? How was graduation this year? Whatever happened to the ordination class of '43? What's this I hear about a curriculum study, a change in the class-cut system, retiring professors . . . and South Bend winning an award ? 
New Colunm page 9 
Like others in the news media, we're forever interested in the story behind the headline. Beginning with this issue we've got just the guy who's good at digging 'em out. His name is Dick Conklin and we've even given him some shades for disguise. Graduating from Notre Dame in 1959 with a master's degree in American studies, Dick thinks there are two best of all possible worlds—the city room and the campus—and he has managed to com­bine them for the last six years. As assistant director of public information at ND (and at his previous similar post at St. Thomas' College), he snoops around the classrooms and faculty hangouts to get the academic scoops. He'll be interpreting the straight news stuff in his regular column, "Telling It Lite It Is," which appears for the first time on page 9. 
The Alumni page 18 
Tributes to two great ones. Report on the .\lumni Senate. Gilligan, Kccvcr and McFadden made the grade. Another far-flung correspondent writes—this time from Russia. Class secre­taries check in again. More news of the graduate schools. UND Nights around the country. 
Sports page 64 
Got your ticket to the UCL-A opener in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center? Well . . . how's about a season's pass? First, though, there's a football season fast approaching and there are some new faces you should get to know. 
Book Reviews page 66 
Something to keep everyone busy on rainy summer days. 
1968 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published bimonthly by the Unncrsity of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, IN 46556. 



EDITORIALS 

JAMES COONEY '59 RICHARD ROSENTHAL "54 
Annuity for Survival 
By JAMES D. CCXJNEY 
WHIL E Notre Dame has forged 
her way through the specific development "Challenges" of the 1960s—I, II, and now SUMMA —beleaguered but beneficent con­stituents have asked: "Where does it all end?" .. . or, more pointedly, on occasion: "Is this Challenge I or IX?" 
Alumni response to the Uni­versity's Challenge I and II de­velopment programs soared, and the SUMMA imjjetus has proved equal to the challenges that lay before. Challenge I and Chal­lenge II broke national records as far as Alumni commitment was concerned, and SUMMA's prog­nosis is excellent. The kaleido­scopic and prestigious growth of the Universit)' during these years has been gratifying in a personal way to all associated with the institution. But, as round and round we go, the question is in­creasingly put, "Where do we stop? Does anyone know?" 
The development arm of the University, the Notre Dame Foundation began, at the outset of SUMM.^, promulgating the doctrine that success in the cur­rent program means the end of the classic national campaign effort for at least a decade. The pronouncement was, and is, an honest and sincere recognition of the great strain placed upon Notre Dame's primary consti­tuency, the Alumni, whose com­mitments span philanthropic in­terests ranging from local to in­ternational pleas . . . most of which are above and beyond Notre Dame's remote but plain­tive cry. 
In addition to the run of the mill crises facing our nation's col­leges and universities — burgeon­
ing enrollments, faculty competi­
tion, critical respcmse to the 
knowledge explosion, and the in­
creasingly popular student coup 
d'etat—just around the ccMner 
stands the greatest crisis or chal­
lenge of all . . . the institutions' 
fight for life. 

While all sources of income to colleges and universities have in­creased substantially in the last ten years, state and federal funds, corporate and foundation grants, voluntary support, and even tui­tion income, the vast majority of America's colleges and universities are in serious financial trouble. Why? Simply because the income factor has not kept pace with expenditures. 
Realize for a moment that while philanthropy has increased markedly, (private, voluntary sup­port has more than tripled since 1938 . . . endowment funds have more than doubled . . . and the total expenditure for U.S. hi^er education this year is more than three times as much as in 1953), student enrollment is twice what it was in 1960 . . . the accumula­tion of Imowledge has at least doubled in the last twenty years . . . faculty salaries have doubled in nearly half that period. And, don't forget inflation! About 20 percent of higher education's financial "gro^vtii" in the past decade is traceable to that single factor. 
What does all of this mean for Notre Dame? It means simply that we are not (nor have we been) inmiune from the econcHnic exigencies which have plowed other institutions under in recent years. It means that the end of SUMMA, or other Challenges, does not cancel out the Univer­sity's need for "lifeblood" suppcMt. There is no breach of Founda­tion promise intended here . . . there shall be no immediate SUMMA II, or Challenge IX. The Annual Alumni Fund, ova: a quarter of a century has pro­vided some of the infusi(Mi neces­sary . . . and, it must do m(»e. 
JAMES ARAASTRONG '25 

The ongoing operations of the Foundation, above and beyond the "campaign" structure, must do the same. 
There is no magic formula for the solution of the plight faced by Notre Dame and nearly every other institution in the land. Father Sorin sought a panacea for his excruciating financial problems in 1830, and sent a small company to California dur­ing the Gold Rush days. The venture didn't pan out. 
We must find increasingly im­aginative and significant ways, means and forms with which to perpetuate not only this Univer­sity's growth and development, but it's survival as well. 
JAMES COONEY '59 is executive secretary of the Notre Dome Alumni Association. 

No Contradicatlon 
By RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL 
THE headline of the AI.UMNUS 
article "Religion on Campus: To Be Cadiolic or Christian?" impressed me much the same as my youngster's question about a square and a rectangle. Obvi­ously, by definition a square is a rectangle, and a true Catholic is "Christ-like or Christian." 
The story that today's Notre Dame men are living their Cath­olic fmth through serving their fellow man is one that should be told, and I am sure Alimini the world over are edified by the com­mitment, conscience, and service to man and conmiunity that permeates today's student body. Living close to the University has g^ven me first-hand knowledge of die truly wonderful and selfless works of today's students. Today more than ever before it's re­freshing and OHnforting to read of responsible acts by competent young men. Condemnation of students as a whole is all too quick, and sometimes based on 
ALUMNUS MAY 19i8 JUNE 
the irresponsible action of but a 
few. 
Unfortunately, in my opinion, 
the article in question cUdn't have 
the balance to either accurately 
portray, "religicm on the campus," 
OT for that matter, "that old-time 
religion." .Religion is a personal 
concept, and trying to define a 
group in religious terms is perhaps 
impossible. 
The concept of a living faith 
and of finding God in our fellow 
man b certainly not a recent find­
ing of the institutional Church. 
Christ himself, the founder of the 
Catholic Church, taught some 
2,000 years ago ". . . the greatest 
Commandment is Love Thy Grod, 
and the second is likened to the 
first. Love Thy Neighbor." Vat­
ican II was not a revelation, but 
a call to renewal. Certainly, no 
one can find a conflict between 
the sacraments on the one hand, 
and love and service to your 
neighbor on the other. The 
Church has never had a doctrine 
of merely, go to Mass and then 
do to others before they do to you. 
The most committed Alumni I 
know, people who are concerned 
• with their brother, "good men" by anybody's definition, are also men who regularly, if not daily, attend Mass. These jjeople really don't get up in the wee hours of the morning because they are ad­dicted to some habit. Perhaps they get the strength and the wisdom to intelligentiy pursue their commitment to their fellow man from the Sacramental grace God has generously offered all of us. 
Having known some of the Notre Dame students who have ^ven up their summer to work with the impoverished and under­privileged, I can testify that these are the same young men who get something from regular, if not daily. Mass attendance. It is my privilege to somewhat regularly attend Sunday Mass at Sacred Heart Church on the Campus, and I see neither empty pews nor simply dull, unbelieving, obedient bodies occupying space. I am sure all of us who have had the privilege of going to Notre Dame have sensed a kind of group fervor that existed then, and exists now, in Sacred Heart Church. 
College years have always been a time when students pass from the fmth of their childhood to a faith of their own, and I am delighted that Notre Dame has, does, and will always offer a con­ducive atmosphere for young men 
AlUMNUS MAY 19i8 JUNE 
to grow in faith. 
Perhaps a future article can be 
more appropriately titled "To Be 
Truly Catholic Is To Be 
Christian." 
RICHARD ROSENTHAL '54 is prttidmt o( the Notre Dome Alumni Association. 


Leadership, 
Not 

By JAMES E. ARMSTRONG 
U OTRE DAME'S Board of Trust­
" ees, on May 15, issued a policy 
statement on student life which 
should result in constructive prog­
ress. It defines a true community 
as one "in which the basic pur­
poses of the institution are shared 
and respected by the constituency 
and in which discussion and, 
indeed, debate are conducted 
with mutual respect, tolerance 
and civility. . . .". 
The Trustees acknowledged the validity of dissent and the need for communication between all s^ments of the University, but stated, "While the Board recog­nizes the need of the University to adapt itself to a changing world, it is finnly resolved to hold fast to those values that have made Notre Dame an enriching experience, intellectual and spir­itual, for so many thousands of her sons." It reiterated the authority of the president, the vice-president for student affairs and the dean of students, with proper provision for appeal. 
This refusal to abdicate its essential and proper authority has been the University's strength in escaping the turbulence prevalent on so many campuses. This wave of violence has been belatedly identified for what it has become —a national pattern directed at destruction of educational institu­tions. 
Several mistakes have led to this disturbing situation. First, the student was stimulated to ex­ercise his freedom of inquiry, to question everyone and everything. His articulation was implemented by increased publication and radio and television facilities. Faculty and administration heralded stu­dent involvement. What the stu­dent assumed, as he joyfully and traditionally leaped to the attack, was the historic resistance frcmn faculty and administration that would modify and harness his vast energy. This unprecedented ab­sence of resistance was the first and major error. 
The second nmtafce e»pbnw thefint. Thkwastlieaawii^ptian by dw faculties and administia­tkns that the new student pos­sessed maturitir and grspmiiliiKty to justify die new fircedoni* It was not until resstance was di­sastiDusIy late that they realized the fallacy of that asumptioD. 
The thnd mistake nuqr save our institutions from the already seri­ous results of both eariier mis­takes. This is the mistake that several national ofganizatiiMis, intent on the destructkn and re­structuring of our ct^l^es and universties, made in creating na­tional patterns of rebellipn rand violence which they attempt^ to suporimposie on each ^c<mipus. They missed the widely dffiering origins and purposes of these in­stitutimis. They mssed the dis­tinctive individuality which has identified the success of our sys-. teni.;The result is the transparent, unnatural and outside influence which is now being hurriedly separated for the elmaination it should have had from the first. 
The preddent of Yale, speaking on the student demand to direct curriculum, said, ". . . Discourse without disci]^ed mastery of the relevant skills and available in­formation is too likely to be an anecdotal bull sesdon which re­wards the facile and the clever at the cost of the patient and the thoughtful and the rigmous . . ." 
The AAUP and the Associa­tion of American Colleges, while affirming support of proviaon for faculty and student vinces in pdicy and procedure, were strongly exposed to dkruptive: practices such as faculty participa­tion in demonstratitRis leading to occupati<m of buildings, halting of ordinary academic pursuits, detaining of faculty and admin­istration, threats (tf physcal harm and property danmge. 
The head of the Menninger Clinic recently advised parents they should invcdve themselves with the problems of their chil­dren, but should not abdicate. This also seems valid for institu­tions. The abdicati<Hi<tf the legal responsibility of the traditional "in loco parentis" seems general. Abdication of the moral respon­sibility, particularly by religiously oriented schools, should demand much greater study. Notre Dame is offered another great c^iportu­nity. 
JAMES ARMSTItONG '25 is the farmer execo­tive secretary of the Noire Dame Alumni Association. 
SBP ROSSIE, FR. HESBURGH and CHAIRAAAN STEPHAN Is a democratic community possible? 



KEEPING THE PEACE 
ilJBSUiDC 
WHIL E chaos reigned on certain US " campuses and student revolution abroad commanded international headlines, the University of Notre Dame wrestled with its own problem of student imrcst. 
The frccdom-from-rule-demands 
•were posted and the ND administra­tion felt the pressure. But the familiar pattern of student militancy was absent. Instead, much of the time and effort by both parties was spent at the conference table where student Icadei's and representatives of the Board of Tnistces produced the be­ginnings of a new role for today's ND student. 
The meetings on Campus came in the wake of student irritation over the near-suspension of four students for parietal-hour violations, suspensions which students claimed were not based on fair hearings for the ac­cused. The more direct stimulus for the calling of the ad hoc committee of the Board was the request of Stu­dent Body President Chris Murphy for negotiations between students and ad­ministration on the student-power measures passed in February by the first general assembly of students. 
The ad hoc committee, composed of five Trustees, met with student gov­ernment representatives and a group drawn from the student body at large. Together, they deliberated over the role of the student in making decisions that affect his life at the University. This included topics approved by the general assembly such as new parietal-hour regulations. 
"The Board was cKtremely cooper­ative and reasonable," was tlie re­action of Student Body President-elect Richard Rossie. "I felt they had made a real effort to understand our posi­tion." 
The committee submitted its report to tlie full Board at its meeting on May 3 and 4. Soon after. Chairman of the Board Edmund Stephan re­leased a letter announcing plans to establish a new three-sector committee to legislate on student life. To be known as the University Student Life Council the tripartite legislative group will have an equal representa­tion of faculty, administration and students. Stephan's letter also called for the establishment of a comparable 
AtUMNUS MAY 1M8 JUNE 

structure for adjudication and review 
in serious disciplinary matters. 
The new group will have virtually complete control of student life in terms of policy, though the University president will retain a veto power which is in turn subject to review by the Board of Trustees. 
Expressing the desire that these tri­partite bodies will be created and their membership elected at the beginning of the ne.xt school year, the trustees also upheld the office of the Dean of Students indicating, that he "must continue to have authority to act promptly and directly in emergency situations, subject to appropriate re­view procedures." 
With regard to parietal hours, the Board disapproved student requests for pennission to entertain girls in their residence hall rooms. It stated, "The Board does not believe that the only or best or even good solution to this legitimate desire is to permit visi­tation in men's dormitory rooms. Rather, the Board prefers the present program of providing additional lounges for visitation in the halls, as well as the development of new proj­ects such as the refurbishing of the Open House and better utilization of the LaFortune Student Center." 
While Father Hesburgh called the meeting of the ad hoc Board com­mittee to deal with the issues brought 
AtUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
up at the general student assembly, 
Rossie insists that the group met as 
a result of "legitimate political pres­
sure on the part of the students." 
That pressure this year has included action on the part of the Student Sen­ate in changing its constitution to delete a clause forbidding it to make any rule contrary to University reg­ulations, and forcing a confrontation on coats and ties in the dining halls. The Hall Presidents' Council had called for complete autonomy on the part of each residence hall to set its own rules free of administration inter­ference, and the senate had supported it fully. The general assembly of stu­dents had attracted 1500 delegates for its two sessions, and the measures ap­proved called for hall autonomy and relaxed drinking regulations, a pass-fail system for non-elective courses, and a new class-cut program. 
There was also the assumption of responsibility on the part of students in less controversial matters. Students had organized and run a Free Uni­versity, offering courses not available at either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, and taught by regular professors or other students. 
The student desire for self-govern­ment had become more than obvious, and the movement came to a head near the end of March when the Uni­versity announced that it was suspend­ing four students for parietal-hour 
violations. Student reaction to the an­
nouncement was intense. The key 
point at issue was that of due process: 
the students suspended had not been 
handled through the student judiciary 
system. 
Just before the suspension an­

nouncement was made Fr. Hesburgh 
had distributed a letter to the student 
body answering Chris Murphy's de­
mands for negotiations on the gen­
(Continued on page 62) 


Up with Planner Hall 
A tiny settlement of trailers and port­
able houses has sprung up north of the 
Memorial Library—but it will soon 
be replaced by two towering residence 
halls. One of the donnitorics, to be 
completed by the fall of 1969, has 
been named already — Flanner Hall. 
The memorial gift, which was an­

nounced May 25, the same week as 
the groundbreaking ceremony, was 
presented by Mrs. John L. Kellogg of 
Chicago, mother of Thomas U. Flan­
ner III, a Chicago attorney who died 
in 1965. 
"Flanner Hall wll be a fitting mem­

orial to Mrs. KcUogg's son, who him­
self had displayed great interest in the 
overall education of young men on 
the Notre Dame Campus," Rev. 
Theodore Hesburgh CSC, University 
president stated. "^Ve are profoundly 
grateful to Mrs. Helen Kellogg for 
such a generous and farsighted gift." 
Edmimd A. Stephan, a Chicago attorney who heads ND's Board of Trustees, thanked Mrs. Kellogg on behalf of the University's Board. "This benefaction comes to the Uni­versity at a most propitious moment," he noted. "It represents a big step towards our goal of preserving the residential character of student life at Notre Dame while at the same time relieving some of the congestion in present living facilities." 
A native of Battle Creek, Mich., Mrs. Kellogg attended the Battle Creek Conservatory of Music and the 
U. of Michigan. Following the death of her first husband, Thomas U. Flan­ner II, she married John L. Kellogg, formerly president of the Kellogg Co. and a son of W. K. Kellogg, the founder of the company. John L. Kellogg died in 1952. 
Mrs. Kellogg is a patroness of the fine arts who has been active in pro­moting opera in Chicago for two decades. She is a- member of the board of directors of several civic, ed­ucational and charitable organizations in the Chicago area. 
The total dormitory complex will include five residence halls, each of which will house some 500 under­
Helen L. Kellogn Waller Kerr Dr. A. L. Lehnmger Walker 
AT THE ONE HUNDRED T\VENTY-THIRD COMMENCE^rENT THE JUNE EXERCISES THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CONFERRED THE DEGREE OF 


DOCTOR OF FINE ARTS 
HONORIS CAUSA 
On MRS. HELEN L . KELLOGG, a bright and 

beautifid, loving and dauntless little lady ivho has given unsparingly of her time, talent, ser­vice, and resources to causes near to her heart in education, charity, and the arts. Her greatest cultural effort has been in Chicago opera. She promoted and developed opera in Chicago be­fore the Lyric Opera zcas established: and since its inception she has served on Z'arious com­mittees, and is at present a member of its Board of Directors. In addition to her achieve­ments of civic cultural service in the field of opera, she has served on university boards, 
including the Women's Advisory Board of the University of Xotre Dame. She has zvorked tirelessly in service of the blind, of arthritis sufferers, and of the children of poverty in her zvorh for the Illinois Children's Home and Aid Society. Her courage and dauntlessness are shown in her brave acceptance of many SOT' rozvs, and her uplifting ability to continue effort in spite of grief, with fortitude and Christian love ... 
On WALTER KERR, a man of *:vit and grace and zcisdom, ivtiose life has been always close to that place of expression and rei'clation which we call the T/ieatre: tltat place where our common existence is illuminated in words and action, where zee see and hear and Icnow ourselves as represented in both grave and antic semblance. A serious place, the Theatre, and an uproarious one: and this man has taken its measure all his days, has made it his own both lightly and profoundly. He lias written much about it. He has written frequently for it. And he has taught us .. . of the values . . . made real for us in Itis chosen field. His high achievements have been various and yet consistent—as a popular piayzvright, as an in­
spiring teaclter, as a philosophical thinker and practitioner in the craft of criticism. His are achievements for which zee are all grateful; for they have helped to shape the drama in our day tozvard the highest standards . . . This man has combined the academic and the artistic life in rare nad double mastery. 


DOCTOR OF SCIENCE 
HONORIS CAUSA 
Ott DR . ALBERT L . LEHNIXCER, a most em­inent biochemist who has focused a great part of Itis life's work on the study of tfie energy producing mechanism in liz'ing cells. His ap­proacli to his work has alzvays shown the broadest, multidiscplinary study, and this has brought film international recognition as he has localized and explored the vital energy yielding reactions in a small but complex intra'ccllular component—the mitochondrion. He has served on the faculties of the University of Wisconsin, the University of Chicago, and, since 1952, has been Director of the Department of Pliysiolo­logical Chemistry at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. . . . In 1956 he zcas eleced to the National Academy of Sciences. ... 
On ERIC A. WALKER, a muck Itonored states­vian of liigher education and a versatile public servant zvlio brings his acknozvlcdged qualities of leadership zvithin the academic community to the sensitiz'e expectations of a dynamically evolving society. Moving agilely betzeeen his academic role as president of Pennsylvania State University and liis public service role as president of the National Academy of Engineer­ing, he creatively melds the diverse talents of campus scholars ivith those of their peers in government and industry. . . . The zcorld proceeds confidently and resolutely into tlte future along the trails blazed by this pioneer­ing scout through the tlilckets of modem science and technology. 


DOCTOR OF LAWS 
HONORIS CAUSA 
On MR. JOSEPH A. BEIRNE, a farseeing and 
thoughtful union official wlto serves firmly, generously and at a fiigh level the cause of American labor and the interests of Ins country as president of the Communications Workers of America. Combining both continents of the Western hemisphere in his dedicated scope of action, he was the first union officer in fiistory to serve as president of the United Community Funds and Councils of America. He zcas aba the principal figure in establishing person to person relations with Latin American zcotkers through the American Institute for Free Labor Development. ... Quick to meet the demands of numerous Presidential appointments, Itis 
recent service has been on both the President's Committee on Mental Retardation and the National Advisory Commusion on Health Man­power. ... One of fits proudest efforts has been in belialf of legislation to provide public educational grants, through the graduate school level, for any qualified young person. 
On WiujASi BENTON, a master of tlic art of communication and a blazer of bright trails in education and public service. Having made a legendary career in tlte promotion of business research, he cut it short at tlie age of thirty-five to become vice-president of tlte University of Chicago. Then he shozoed a rare combina­tion of business and educational acumen by 
purchasing tlte £nc>'cIopacdta Bnlannica and 
deeding a share of its profits to the University. As Assistant Secretary of Stale for Cultural Affairs under President Harry Truman he laid the foundation for educational relationship be­tzeeen the United States and other nations. ... During seven eventful years lie represented the State of Connecticut in the Senate of our country; and liis record as a spokesman for the integrity of the liberal tradition is one of the bright pages in the history of the time. Of him his friend Adlai Stevenson once said that he has alzvays been a journeyer to Utopia who creates oases as he goes along. ... 
On MR. JUSTICE WILUAM J. BRENNAN. JR., 
a distinguished public servant whose career, in important 'ways, parallels that of the great Sir Thomas More. He has the same concern for the prompt dispatch of judicial business and for the expeditius and just handling of litiga­tion. And he is in service only to his own conscience, as More zcas. Appointed to the Supreme Court of the United States in 1956, at a time when that tribunal zvas a whipping-boy to an even greater extent than is its normal portion, he has been more bitterly criticized in 

graduates. Along \vith the gift from Mrs. Kellogg, funding for the project, which will cost $5,562,875, has been provided by a $3 million loan from the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and various pri­vate donors. The halls are part of the current $52 million SUMMA de­velopment program. 
Commencement '68 

The weatherman's predictions \vere kind—and true—and the sun shone benevolently on yet another Notre Dame commencement, June 2. Grad­uation exercises were held for the 123rd time and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, in his position as Uni­versity president, conferred 1,673 degrees, the largest number in history. Of these, 1,358 went to undergradu­ates, 185 were master's degrees, 74 were doctorates and 56 went to Law School graduates. 
Honorary degrees \vere conferred on 11 men and one woman. Dr. James A. Perkins, pres. of Cornell Uni­versity, was commencement speaker and received a doctor of laws degree. Others so honored were Maximos V. Hakim, Beruit, Lebanon, patriarch of a half-million Melkite-rite Catholics in the East, who preached the sermon at the Baccalaureate Mass; Joseph A. Beirne, head of the Communications "Workers of America; William Benton, publisher of Encyclopedia Britannica, 
Joseph Beirne William Benton 
some quarters than any other member of the Court, with the exception of the Chief Justice. This criticism has focused on certain decisions which he agonized over, cases he could not have decided otherwise zvithout violating his judicial conscience. He has shown the courage of strong convictions. A powerful defender of due process of law and the rights of the individual, he has been, also, a champion of legal services for tfie impoverished. ... 
On MAXIMOS V HAKIM, one who is not only a priest but a bishop, not only a bishop but a patriarch, not only a patriarch but a servant of all God's people. These he has ministered to zvith vigor and humility wherever he has found them—from Egypt, Jordan, Israel, Syria and Lebanon to all parts of the western zcorld as well. In his native lands he has become a pillar of strength and a major force for recon­ciliation during these difficutt times of enmity between nations. . . . He was for a quarter of a century bishop in Israel and one of that nation's most respected citizens. In communion 

zcith  the See of Rome,  his patriarchate  is non- 
Roman  in  tradition  and  world-wide  in  its  
extent,  • . ,  

On DR. JAMES A. PERKINS, an academic 
statesman. Educated at Szcarthmore and Prince-
ALUMNUS MAY 7968 JUNE 

PRESIDENT PERKINS and AWARD WINNERS SHEEDY and NORLING 
Honors and degrees for the 123rd time. 
Inc., Justice William J. Brennan of the US Supreme Court; Howard V. Phalin, chairman of the board of Field Enterprises Educational Corp.; C. R. Smith, US secretary of commerce and Walter W. (Red) Smith, syndicated sports columnist. 
Honorary doctor of science degrees were given to Dr. Albert L. Lehning­er, director of the department of physiological chemistry in Johns Hop­kins school of medicine and Dr. Eric 
A. \Valker, president of Pennsylvania State University. 
(Continued on page 63) 


Not Just Between the Lines 
If Notre Dame is not doing the best possible job of educating its students. 
the faculty is going to do something about it. They're analyzing the situa­tion now—and so are the students— and the University's president hopes there'll be some changes made by the fall of 1969. 
In a memo to the 600 faculty mem­bers. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC outlined a plan of action which would begin with departmental com­mittees examining their curriculum, then making recommendations to their college councils this fall. Next the col­lege councils would make specific rec­ommendations to a University-wide committee to be elected by Dec. L The University-\vide committee ^vould submit a report for final action to the Academic Council. 
Father Hesburgh pointed out that no comprehensive and systematic ex­amination of the curriculum has been undertaken in recent years—^in fact, not since the beginning of his tenure. "I would add," he wrote, "that the university that does not carefully re-e?camine itself and its ciuriculum every dozen years or so is in proximate danger of academic arteriosclerosis." 

Though summer vacation is sud­denly upon the Campus, committees are at work now and a student "mir­ror" group has been formed to con­tribute the voice of those directly af­fected by a curriculum change. 
To be taken into consideration are these questions Father Hesburgh posed concerning the students: What are the intellectual aspirations and motiva­tions of the students who come to ND? 
Justice Win Brennan Dr. James 
ton, he is now president of Cornell University. . . . In this crucial and tormenting time he is concerned about our universities in transition . . . He asks that we avoid academic isolation­ism, that ice join together wherever and when­ever possible to make common cause in what are too often totally separate and selfish col­legiate citadels. He respects the values^ the meanings and purposes of students, trusting them in their freedom. He has confidence in professors as intellectual individualists. And he 
ivorks hard to Prevent the society of learning from becoming a scene of titreats and violence. We honor him for his courageous acceptance of the real challenges in the current academic revolution: **to devise colleges that can touch the lives of tliose who are now merely going through the motions, and to devise graduate programs—and indeed a style of faculty life— that better develop and exemplify the poS' sibilities of the life of the mind." 
On HOWARD V. PHALIN, a wise and vigorous leader in educational publishing, luhose achieve ments have greatly extended the benefits and opportunities of knowledge to men and women throughout the ivorld. He has guided the progress of the Field Enterprises Educational Corporation with great acumen and imagina­tion and has succeeded in achieving . . . that 
Perkins Howard Phalin C, R. Smith 
rare goal: the combination of excellent scholar­ship with business success in the publication field. His interests and concerns have also extended . . . to those of social welfare and to the alleviation of human suffering. ... He has tirelessly devoted his efforts and mani­fold talents to the civic, national and inter­national betterment of man. Always aware of the new dimensions of age-old intellectual chal­lengeSt he has particularly endeared himself to his many friends and colleagues through his ecumenical vision. 
On THE HONOILUILE C. R. SMITH, a pioneer 
in commercial and military aviation; an out' standing industrial leader for nearly half a century; a tireless worker with tenacity of purpose, firmness of conviction, and breadth of vision: a selfless man, deeply dedicated not only to business but to education and to his country. As chief executive of one of the world's largest airlines he foresaw the needs of a growing ivorld economy and the leadership role required for a transportation explosion. In World War II .. . he served his country as Deputy Commander of the Air Transport Com­mand, where he was instrumental in building the Army's global air transport system. Highly hon* ored for this achievement by our own and the British governments, he also received the Billy 
Walter Smith 
Mitchell award in civilian aviation which cited him **as the United States citizen making the outstanding individual contribution to aviation progress." His service to academic institutions is exemplified by sixteen years of sharing his talents and business expertise as a member of the Advisory Council of Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. At a time when most men would shed responsibilities to devote their time to avocations—and from his native Texas upbringing he has an abiding love for woods and stream—he recently answered the call of his nation and his President to shoulder great responsibilities as a member of the Cabinet, dedicating his talents to the nation as Secretary of Commerce. 
On WALTER W . SMITH, a sports writer, a stylist in English prose, whose exquisite crafts^ manship has delighted lovers of good writing everywhere and whose sharp eye has unsettled many a phony. . . . Notre Dame has always rejoiced in her sports tradition, and she rt' joices particularly today that she nurtured one of the best of sports writers, a man whose good heart has endeared him to all who love good sport, whose honesty and balance have contributed to the betterment of sport, and whose wit and way with words have earned him a solid place in American letters. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
^Vhat are the questions and problems 
uppermost in their minds? How can 
an ND education be made more ex­
citing, more meaningful and more real 
and relevant for each of them? 

He stressed that his thought "is not 
that education can be made easy for 
the student. Any such attempt would 
be a fraud and the student would be 
the first to resent it. . . . Rather, my 
thought is that education should be 
made possible in an interesting and 
meaningful way. It need not be 
deathly dull." 

As guidelines to the curriculum study. Father Hesburgh asked if it is not feasible to combine some courses and eliminate others and questioned whether each course should occupy the same amount of the student's time as every other course (as 50 minutes three times a week). He also ques­tioned whether some courses—such as 
elementary language—should be taught at the University level. 
Finally he stressed the importance of theology to tlie University curricu­lum. "My conviction is that never has theology been more important than it is today to give meaning and direction to the whole of life in all its intellec­tual and moral dimensions. However, to do this it must be taught much better than it has been." 
He added that "we presently do Protestant and Jewish students no favor in exempting them from some exposure to their theology. If theology is imf>ortant enough to Catholic stu­dents to found some Catholic mii­versities to insure theological teaching on the university level, then we should not neglect Protestant or Jewish the­ology either—or an ecumenical ex­perience for all students." 

Talk About'Class'! 

The class of priests ordained in Sacred Heart Church June 24, 1943 included a future Notre Dame president and four other men who were to give many years of service to the Uni­versity. 
This June 24th, those four priests— Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Rev. Wm. A. Botzum CSC, Rev. Thomas J. McDonough CSC and Rev. Charles W. Harris CSC—though miles away from each other will cele­brate their silver jubilee. 
Father Hesburgh will be in Rome as a delegate from the Holy Cross Fa­thers' Indiana Province to the General Chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross which will be in session at Holy Cross College there. He and an ordina­tion classmate. Rev. Arnold A. Fell CSC '39, also a delegate to the General Chapter, \vill commemorate the occa­sion vtrith a concelebrated Mass of thanksgiving in the college chapel. 
FATHER HESBURGH IN 
 BADIN HALL FR. HARRIS 

They wU be honored by the Holy 
Cross Community in Rome at a recep­
tion and banquet to follow. Father 
Fell is director of the Holy Cross For­
eign Mission Society in Washington, 
D.C. 

Father Hesburgh did graduate 
work at Catholic U. and received 
an STL degree in 1944, followed by 
an STD in 1945. After that he headed 
back to ND and served as chaplain 
to returning veterans until 1949. He 
was also doing duty as a teacher of 
religion and headed that department 
in 1948-49. In 1949 he was appointed 
executive vice-president of the Uni­
versity and in 1952 he became the 
school's 16th president 

Rev. William A. Botzum CSC '38, associate dean of the graduate school, was also a member of the class. Father Botzum taught at ND from 1948 to 1951 and was later head of the de­partment of psychology and dean of the graduate school at the U. of Port­land. He was named assistant dean of the ND graduate school in 1966. 
Rev. Thomas J. McDonough CSC, former chairman of the economics de­partment, who is now on sabbatical leave, was another classmate. He is now travelling and studying in Europe to prepare a course on Western Euro­pean regional economic policies in the European economic community. He will return to the US in late June and will offer a Mass of thanksgiving in his home parish church, St. Mar}''s in East Chicago, Ind., June 7. 
Rev. Charies W. Harris CSC '39 plans an anniversary Mass in St. Michael's Church in Phmouth, Ind. June 30. Father Harris, who taught at ND 14 years, is dean of the college of arts and letters at the U. of Port­land. 
Another former ND teacher (and prefect) who was also a member of the ordination class is Rev. Thomas J. Brennan CSC '39, now an assbtant at St. Patrick's parish in New Orleans. 
The other members of die class were Rev. David H. Fosselman CSC '39, a member of the Holy Cross Fathers' Mission Band in Hayward, Calif.: Rev. Edmund N. Goedert CSC '39, pastor of St. Nicholas parish in Nagari, D t Dacca, East Pakistan; Rev. James 
C. Healy CSC '39, chaplain at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend: Rev. Albin L. Hosinski CSC '39, religious sujierior at Holy Trinity parish in Chicago; Rev. Gregory J. Steigmeyer 
CSC '39, pastor of Holy Rosary par­kin Sacred Heart Church right after ordination June 24, 1943, row 1, left to right: Fathers Steigmeyer, Sulli\-an, Archbishop Noll, Fathers Fofselman, Fell; row 2, Fathers Lowcry, Botzum. Goedert, Hesburgh, Hosinski; row 3, Fathers Brcniuui, McDonagh, Buttomer, Healy, Harris. Szymanski. (Father Mitchell is not pictured. having been ordained earlier.) 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
DICK CONKLIN HA '59 


TELLING IT LIKE IT IS 
F
ROM Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. where Father Joyce spoke 
on "Notre Dame In Transition," to Utica, N.Y. 
where this writer discussed "The New Notre Dame," 
the unofficial theme of Universal Notre Dame Night 
dinners was, simply put, CHANGE. Gone were the 
days when University speakers might be tempted to 
deliver a rhetorical set-piece on the glories of Alma 
Mater and then retire to the bar to set dorm mem­
ories awash. Speakers could still be found in the bar 
following dinners, but more often than not, they were 
still earnestly answering questions. 

Discipline and religion — those two areas (con­
firming the findings of sociologist Frank Fahey's Arts 
and Letters Alumni Survey, see p. 22) were most often 
brought up by Alumni. The liberalization of conduct 
rules and the shift from a religious spirit rooted in 
The Commandments to one finding its moral impera­
tives in The Beatitudes were viewed cautiously by 
most older Alumni. 

To understand why Notre Dame has to change, one must realize that neither the student nor the Church remains a constant factor. There are several studies of the contemporary student delineating the differences between him and the "silent generation" of the 1950s, and no one needs William Buckley to remind him that today's Church is not that of Pope Pius XII. Notre Dame reflects the generational gap which troubles all first-rate universities, and it also mirrors the aggiornamento tensions which are con­comitant \vith any serious rene\val effort. The time to worry is when Notre Dame stops changing. 
The pace of change quite possibly will demand a new kind of Alimini loyalty — not a loyalty which is unquestioning, but one which abstains from the nat­ural temptation to judge today's Notre Dame by yesterday's standards while showing a willingness to do the patient homework necessary to understand — or to dispute—new directions. 
At the same time, one hopes the moderate student activist has learned a lesson from Berkeley and Columbia. Before the barricades go up, it is well to realize that it is one thing to strike a manufacturing plant and quite another to shut down a university. The manufacturing plant reopens, workers return to their machines, and the cars, tires or sealing wax roll out just as they always did. 
A imiversity is a much more fragile entity whose homeostasis remains an enigma. Recent events have shown that a minority can tear a imiversity apart, but we have no evidence that anyone can put it back together again without new disabilities. Berkeley's disturbances, for example, were significant factors in a gubernatorial victory which has lowered morale in Cal­ifornia's vast system of higher education; and only the 
sanguine can believe a kind of phoenix will arise very 
quickly frcHn the ashes of Columbia or the Sorboime. 
The rhetoric, the strategy of organizaticxi, and 
the tactics of issue-confnmtation used by student 
power moderates are borrowed from the early days 
of the trade union movement, and so far they have 
served well. It would be a mistake to forsake the 
AFL-CIO as a model and adopt the anarcho-syn­
dicalism of the old I.W.W., as it seems the Students 
for a Democratic Society are doing. 
*«• **• *«• 
111 GUY can't have one arm around your shoulder 
" and the other reaching for your wallet." That 
was the gut argument which for years led educational 
institutions to be wary of ctwabining Alimmi Office 
activities too closely with those of the Development 
Office. There was a psychology of dichotomy which 
placed "fund-raising" on one side, and "purely altru­
istic" alumni relati<ms on another. 
Attitudes are changing. Cornell University recently established eight regional offices aroimd the nation, and judging by the news notices, they were estab­lished on the same basis (see cover story, p. 13) as Notre Dame has reorganized its Foundation staff — the person manning r^onal offices wrill be an "oil-services" reprasentaliv* of the institution. He ^nll do the crucial job of interpreting the educational philoso­phy of the institution to Almnni and.firiends in his area, and will handle the other service tasks—the admissions inquiries, the football ticket impasses, the problems of local club programming, and so on. 
There are two reasons for this change. Tlie first and less important, is a matter of manpower efficien­cy. If the institution's development office [lersonnel, because of their local presence and closeness to Alum­ni and friends, end up being "Mr. Notre Dame" in their areas, why not make it official? 
The primary reason, however, flows out of a maturing conception of fund-raising as essentially a matter of identity, goals and plans. "Interest" and "involvement" are the keys to development, and "in­vesting" has replaced "giving." The changes have not been euphemistic. There is no shmtage of causes to which persons are urged to contribute, and the case becomes the difference. This case—^the reason for support—^is normally not the result of a 20-minute presentation, but the outgrowth of many years' as­sociation with the University, during which time a potential donor comes to respect its goals and its leadership to the point where he will put his money where his conviction is. 
Nurturing this c(mviction is what the reorganiza­tion is all about 
ALUMNUS MAY 19«8 JUNE 
(continued from page 8) 
ish, Tejgdan, Dt. Dacca, East Pakis­tan; and Rev. Edgar S. Szymanski 


PEOPLE 
CSC '36, assistant pastor of Holy 

Dethroned but verbally undaunted, Muhammed All (former boxing cham­pion Cassias Clay) preached the doctrine of a separatist Negro state to a crowded Fieldhouse May 19. He asked for land either here or abroad where the black man could prove his capabilities without tlie influence of white men. Advocating the policy of a single leader for all Negroes, he called for one man "who has tlie solu­tion" and who would officially repre­sent all blacks before tlie government. 
Straight from Fun Cit)' Mayor John Lindsay headlined "The Community Response to Crime" conference. Speaking April 30, he drew standing ovations with obser\'ations on crime in the streets, the war in Vietnam and the problems of student involvement in tlie political scene. On youth in the city he remarked, "Institutional life has bypassed the young person in the street The young person is not touched or influenced by the school systems, the churches . . . Hence, they develop their own code of the street." As a solution he recommended de­centralization of the institutions so they may be "moved back to block life." 
Speaking on the role of tlie university in alleviating the social ills in America, Whitney Young told a large crowd in the Memorial Library May 1, "If American educational institutions had been doing what tliey were supposed to do, we would not be in the midst 
i of a revolution today." The Urban League director pointed to prepara­tion for change as one of the aims of education, but insisted tlie schools do not accomplish this, reflecting instead the already established attitudes of the general society. 
•Sfr -ST -SJ 

An Olympic medalist told it like it is in the Memorial Library April 8. Jesse Owens attacked the techniques of riots, boycotts and marches as means of settling diff'erences sajing they "can bring no real peace, no real understanding — this is only possible when men sit down and communicate with one another." Owens stressed tremendous progress has been made in civil rights in the time he has been in public life. He pointed out the heart of man cannot be legislated and pleaded for personal involvement as the only solution to the problems of 
j injustice. 
CANDIDATES ON CAMPUS 

Indiana's plains became the glamour scene with the coming of the Demo­cratic primaries crowd. Movie stars Dustin Hoffman, late from "The Grad­uate," and Paul Newman stumped the ND Quad and the South Bend area in search of voters for Senator Eugene McCarthy, who was no slacker as he beat the Campus bushes himself. 
Five diousand screaming, pushing stu­dents greeted Robert and Ethel Ken­nedy April 4 when they appeared in Stepan Center. Kennedy drew ap­plause with his call for personal re­sponsibility as a part of student in­volvement. In 40 minutes of lecture and questions Kennedy hit at the problems of poverty and the draft. Some listeners applauded even his suggestion to end the policy of student deferment Backing up the Kennedy bid for votes was perennial cam­paigner Pierre Salinger who was on Campus April 30 to recall his years as press secretary to JFK and suggest a ballot marked for RFK. 
Trinity parish in Chicago. In addition there were three mem­bers of the class who are now mem­bers of the Eastern Province of the Holy Cross Fathers—^Rev. Jerome But­tomer CSC, Rev. James Lowery CSC '39 and Rev. Leo Sullivan CSC—and Rev. Philip Mitchell CSC who is now deceased. 
In Memory of Dr. King 
When Dr. Martin Luther King lost his life at the hands of an assassin, there were a number of ND efforts in me­moriam. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC joined a large number of students in a student-sponsored fast on the day of Dr. King's burial in Atlanta. Memorial Masses were celebrated on Campus and there were two communit)' ser­vices in South Bend. 
Through a gift made to the Univer­sity by Mr. and Mrs. John J. Bund­schuh Sr. of Scarsdale, NY, a scholar­ship honoring Dr. King was estab­lished. The scholarship wll be awarded annually to a Negro student at ND. Bundschuh is the father of a 1954 graduate and serves on the ad­visory council for the College of Busi­ness Administration. 


Old Soldiers Don't Even Fade 
Seven professors will be retiring from the ranks of the regular teaching staff come June but their rocking chairs, if they own them, aren't going to be getting much use. 
Given the rank of professor emeritus at the annual president's dinner were Francis E. Moran and Joseph C. Ryan, English; Joseph O'Meara, dean of the Law School; Raymond B. Plum­mer and \VaIter L. Shilts, civil engi­neering; George E. Rohrbach, mech­anical engineering; John H. Sheehan, economics, and Rev. Raymond Mur­ray CSC, sociology. 
Professor Moran, who has devoted his services to ND since 1927, will continue to teach, but \vill now be located at Holy Cross Junior College across "the Dixie." 
Professor Ryan has been in the English department since 1941 and he isn't really leaving yet. He has plans to continue teaching one course in sophomore literature. 
Dean O'Meara figures this is the best opportunity to "practice what preach" and is going to work for Legal Aid Oct 1. He says he plans "to spend the rest of my life represent­ing poor people." He will be on 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

MORAN RYAN O'MEARA SHUTS ROHRBACH SHEEHAN PLUAAMER 
Campus until September and then he 
isn't going to move a muscle for a 
month in preparation for his whole 
new life. 
Professor Plummer and his wife are 

taking the opportunity that retire­
ment provides to do some traveling. 
Embarking on their first trip to 
Europe, they plan to do extensive 
touring this summer and then hope 
to see quite a bit of the USA when 
they return. 
Moving from one big job into an­other. Professor Shilts will be able to devote more time to his own company which he started last November. He is president of Shilts Graves and Associates Inc., a South Bend mater­ials testing lab. The lab does analysis for architects and engineers. 
Professor Rohrbach is looking for­ward to the leisure of retirement and hopes to enjoy just loafing for a while. Leisure to do some writing he has been planning is wliat appeals to Pro­fessor Sheehan right now. His jour­nalistic pursuits should keep him well occupied after 30 years of teaching. 
Father Murray will still be around Campus, living in Corby Hall. He has plans to continue to work in mental hospitals as a chaplain and study procedures there. He also hopes to have a book on psychiatry in the works soon. 
Also retiring, but only from one 
MURRAY STEPHENS New occupational specialists. 

phase of ND life, is Col. John Stephens. He has been at ND since 1960 as a professor of military science and commanding officer of the Army ROTC unit, but with his retirement from the service he has moved into the guidance and counsefing field and is now holding the title of director of freshman personnel in football. 
All In the Family 
Notre Dame gave Robert H. Gore Sr, a Fort Lauderdale businessman and fonner governor of Puerto Rico, a present on his 82nd birthday May 24. With the help of several members of the Gore family, the University dedi­cated a $350,000 University Club. The buff brick, contemporary-styled building at the entrance to the Cam­pus was a gift of Governor Gore in memory of his wfe, Lorena Caroline Gore, who died in 1964. 
Present for the ceremonies were four of Gore's sons and one of his daughters—Robert H. Jr '31, Fred-
FREDERICK, THEODORE, GEORGE and ROBERT GORE JR, FR. HESBURGH For faculty frolicking. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
erick P. '43, George H. '48, Theodore 
T. '50 and Mrs. John Firlet. There were several other members of the family in attendance including two grandsons now at Notre Dame, Gregory J., a freshman, and Paul A., who received his law degree this month, as well as a grandnephew. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, ND 

executive vice-president and a friend 
of the Gore family, was the toast­
master at the dedication lunch in the 
Club's Rathskeller dining area, which 
is dominated by an outsized brick 
fireplace and ringed by display cases 
holding the priceless stein and tankard 
collection given the Club by its donor. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, praised Governor Gore, who was unable to attend the ceremonies, as a "person of great imagination and sensitivity to values." 
Father Hesburgh noted the gift of a University Club and the contribution such a benefaction could make to the cohesiveness of the University's faculty was indicative of Gore's insight and "instinct to do the right thing." 
James D. Cooney, executive sec­retary of the Alumni Association and chaiiinan of the board of the Univer­sity Club, also thanked the family. 
Robert H. Gore Jr spoke for the family in thanking the University for its hospitality and in voicing their hope that the University Club "would see no devisive action and be helpful in developing a dedicated faculty for God, country and Notre Dame." 
About 200 persons attended an open house following the luncheon, browsing about the lounge and dining areas of the Club, which features a vaulted ceiling and parquet floors. The marvels of contemporary land­scaping techniques were evident in the small trees which appeared virtually overnight. 
(Continued on page 62) 


Slashing at the Cut System 
Academic regulation 71 has been a bugaboo to ND students for quite a while, esjjecially for those who have 8 am classes. It reads: "Absence from any class, laboratory assignment, class test or examination constitutes a class absence. Absences are counted from the first day of class in any course. If a student is late for class three times or as much as 15 minutes once, his 
tardiness counts as an absence." 
And Rule 72 enlarged upon the 
matter, saying the maximum number 
of absences (without loss of credit) is 
equal to the number of credit hours 
given for the course. 
At the last meeting of the Univer­sity Academic Council, the "cut" rule was liberalized. A new jjolicy was es­tablished leaving the matter entirely to the discretion of the instructor. The Council said in part, "It is for the instructor alone to decide whether a student's attendance has been so ir­regular or his absences so frequent, as to warrant a grade of FA (failure be­cause of absences)." 
Changing the Senior Award 
When the ballots were counted it was 503 to 131 and the Senior Patriot of the Year Award disappeared from the Notre Dame scene. Because of con­tinued criticism of the award and its management and the difficulty in determining what patriotism really means. Class Pres. Dave \Vitt placed an alternate proposal before the Class of '69. 
An individual who has attained stature in a certain field will now be invited to be a guest of the seniors for several days. He will live in the dorms and meet with the seniors on a small-group basis, both in class and in­fonnally. At the conclusion of his visit he will lecture formally and be pre­sented with an award. 
Selection will be made by a com­mittee which is looking for "an in­dividual who has had the integrity, the decency and the willingness to work for the best values and finest traditions of our society, and at the same time can freely join in and con­tribute to the spontaneous give-and­take of Notre Dame's social and in­tellectual life." 
The Class is looking for financial sponsorship, possibly from Alumni, and estimates the annual cost of the award to be approximately $1000, half to be used for transportation and board and the other half for an honorarimn. 
The concept is adapted from Yale's Chubb Fellow Program and is being enthusiastically endorsed by both stu­dents and administration. 

Re-emphasizing Theology 
In an effort to bring theology "even more fully into the intellectual life of the Campus," Rev. Charles E. Sheedy CSC '33 was named Dean of Theological Studies and Institutes. Father Sheedy's replacement as liberal arts dean will be named this summer. 
In announcing the new post. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Uni-
FATHERS SHEEDY, BURTCHAELL Change on fhe Campus. 
versity president, observed, "it is the­ology and philosophy which ^ve the Catholic university its distinctive qual­ity, indeed its fundamental reason fw existence. One of the first tasks of Father Sheedy vnll be to study all of the (jossible ways of structuring the­ology in a modem university and to suggest how theology might best be structured here at ND." 
Father Sheedy will coordinate the University's four major theological enterprises: the department of the­ology which offers undergraduate, master's and doctoral programs; Holy Cross College, the major theological seminary of the Holy Cross Fathers, which will move from Washington, DC, to ND this summer; the new Institute for Advanced Religious Studies, an ecumenical center for postdoctoral study and research on the Campus; and the Ecumenical Institute for Advanced Theological Studies in Jerusalem which is adminis­tered by ND for the International Federation of Catholic Universities. 
Father Hesburgh also annoimced the appointment of Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC '56 as chairman of the theology department to succeed Rev. Albert L. SchUtzer CSC who is OMn­pleting a four-year term as depart­ment head. Father Schlitzer will devote full time to teaching and re­search. 

To the Scholars Go the Keys 
Thirty members of the Class of '68 have Phi Beta Kappa keys to dangle from their watch diains. They were initiated May 24 as the first student members of the University's new chap­ter of the honor fraternity. 
Those so honored were Frank D. Allman, New Britain, Conn.; Kenneth 
J. Beime, Carle Place, NY; Peter B. Billings, Ripon, Wis.; John T. Boyle, Suffem, NY; Thomas D. Brislin, Dal­las, Pa.; Thomas V. Chema, E. Liver­pool, Ohio; Donald D. Conn, N. Ar­lington, NJ; Myron L. Cramer, Co­lumbus, Ohio; Paul E. Czuchlewski, Woodside, NY; and James M. Davis, New Cumberland, Pa. 
Also, Arthur A. DeSme^ Detroit; Daniel Doyle, Elkhart, Ind.; John J. Gatta Jr, Schenectady, NY; Dennis J. Gallagher, Oswego, NY; Forrest A. Hainline, Detroit; Robert J. Heine-man, Connersville, Ind.; Mark Kel­leher, Wethersfield, Conn.; Geoi^e J. Kelly, Riverside, Conn.; Arnold Kling­enbog, Columbus, Ohio; and Francis 
L. Lenski, Peru, 111. 
Also, John A. Longhi, Larchmont, NY; Kevin R. McCarthy, St Louis; Robert W. Metz, Ridgefidd Park, NJ; Raymond W. Novaco, Ft. Lauderdale; John H. Pearson, Notre Dame; Wil-Uam S. Podd, Greenwich, Conn.; Philip A. Rathweg, Dayton; Stephen 
J. Schultz, Alma, Wis.; Anthony J. Shaheen, Utica, NY; and William W. Yeager, Denver. 



Lookie-South Bend's a Winner 
Chins are tilted a little higher and billboards, newspapers and T V pro­claim the reason: South Bend is now an All-America City. And Notre Dame took its fair share of the bows when the announcement was made in the April 16 issue of Look magazine. 
At a presentation dinner-dance in Stepan Center, May 20, representa­tives of the National Mimicipal League and Look (co-sponsors of the award) cited South Bend's "progress through intelligent citizen action." The main factors in the selection of South Bend were the town's rejuvenation after the shutdown of the Studebaker Corp. in 
1964 and the continuing expansion of the University. 
ND Alumni played a key role in guiding the city's entry through the cogs of competition. Richard Rosen­thal '54 was chairman of the entry committee and Dr. Thomas Stewart '57 made the official South Bend presentation before the judges at the Cmference on Government of the Na­tional Municipal League in Mil­waukee last November. Joseph E. Hickey '50 is chairman of a committee charged with the responsibility of proper recognition of the award. 
TO SOUTH BEND The winner's seal. 
ALUMNUS MAY 19<8 JUNE 

CAMPUS CRISIS The Diminishing Dollar 
The dollar at Notre Dame and on every other campus just isn't what it used to be. Today, while voluntary contributions and tuition have reached rec­ord proportions, day-to-day costs have rocketed even higher. In ten years the cost of higher education has more than tripled. For this reason, trus­tees and administrators are learning none too early that U.S. colleges and universities are on the brink of a financial crisis. 
The unsavory report is reflected on nearly all cam- business on a day-to-day basis. Now it's closer to 
puses, Notre Dame being no exception. Admittedly, what educators now accept as a fact of life varies from institution to institution. And for the Notre Dame family a certain satisfaction can be expressed in the fact that its university enjoys relatively good times. Nonetheless, the symptoms of such a crisis — if not the actual plight — are here as well as everywhere else. 
Notre Dame's fiscal good-fortune comes at the height of the University's drive for excellence. But this growth is a mere reflec­tion of the educational explosion throughout the land. 
Nowhere is this better seen than on the burgeoning campus skylines. There isn't a college or university in the country not immersed in the building boom. Altogther, institutions are spending better than $2 billion a year for capital expansion. 
The extensive development of physical facilities has been forced upon the scholarly communities, for one thing, by the student population explosion. The number of students attending colleges and universities in the United States is now seven million, twice what it was in 1960. The toughest reality for administrators to swallow, however, is that corresponding operating costs haven't enlarged twofold; rather, they have in­creased three times. 
In 1956 approximately $4 billion was spent to do 
$13 billion. By 1970, if government projections are correct, colleges and universities will be spending over $18 billion for current operations, plus another $2 billion or so for capital expansion. 
in a special report entitled, "The Plain Fact Is . . .", Editorial Projects for Education, Inc. lists three other major contributing factors for rising costs besides the student enrollment. 
• The rapid accumulation of new knowl­edge and a resulting trend toward specializa­tion have led to a broadening of the curricula, a sharp increase in graduate study, a need for sophisticated new equipment, and increased library acquisitions. All are very costly. 
•
 An unprecedented growth in faculty salaries — long overdue — has raised instructional costs at most institutions. (Faculty salaries account for roughly half of the educational expenses of the average institution of higher learning.) 

•
 About 20 percent of the financial "growth" during the past decade is accounted for by inflation. On the other side of the ledger, financial support during this time has been nothing less than impressive. 


Since 1958 contributions from private, voluntary sources has more than tripled. Moreover, higher edu­cation's share of the philanthropic dollar has risen from 11 percent to 17 percent. 
Within the realm of state support, funds appro-
ALUMNUS MAY 1W8 JUNE 
Execufjve Vice-Preiidenl Complrolier Rev, Edmund P. Joyce CSC Richard M. Lynch 
priated for higher education have increased 44 percent in just two years, to a 1967-68 total of nearly $4.4 billion. This is 214 percent more than the sum appro­priated eight years ago. All indications point to the fact that even more will be forthcoming from the state. 
In New York, for example, Governor Rockefeller's specially appointed committee for higher education (that included Father Hesburgh in its membership) rec­ommended that more of the tax dollar be given the state's colleges and universities. But what made the committee's report even more spectacular was its recommendation that a proportionately equal amount be given private institutions of higher learning. 
Numerous other factors are contributing to the educational boom. But without belaboring the point, one asks, "Why all the difficulty now?" With such unparalleled growth and seemingly endless resources, "What has gone wrong?" 
One answer comes from McGeorge Bundy, presi­dent of the Ford Foundation. He believes, ". . . sim­ply, that our colleges and universities, over the last 20 years, have experienced an expansion that is without precedent — in buildings and in budgets, in students and in professors, in reputation and in rewards, in power and pride and in deserved prestige. 
"As they try to tell their countrymen that they are faced with imminent bankruptcy," Bundy continues, "they confront the painful fact that in the eyes of the American people — and I think also in the eyes of disinterested observers abroad — they are a triumph­ant success. The observers seem to believe — and 1 believe myself — that the American campus ranks with the American corporation among the handful of first-class contributions which our civilization has made to the annals of human institutions. Colleges and univer­sities come before the country to plead financial emer­gency at a time when their public standing has never been higher. It is at the least an unhappy accident of timing." 
For some schools, the future holds a grave threat to the high quality of their offerings. Other schools will follow the path to merger such as Cleveland's Case Institute of Technology and Western Reserve Univer­sity. A t Notre Dame the day is imminent when other schools will relocate on Campus as part of a "cluster college" community. And, then, there are some schools who doubtlessly will face death. 
Neil G. McCluskey SJ, a visiting professor of edu­cation at the University, put the problem like this in a recent article: 
"The immediate reality is whether or not public policy will continue to support a strong dual system of higher education and, if not, except for a few insti­tutions, whether quality education under private aus­pices is headed for oblivion." 
Yale University President Kingman Brewster was quoted in another magazine article as saying: "It's almost impossible to exaggerate this problem. Yale has never had a more difficult financial prospect— and a serious strain for Yale is a crisis for other places. 
A Standford University vice-president wrote in a letter to alumni and friends, "the highest quality of learning and education will without doubt continue to increase in cost—and at a rapid rate. To the extent 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

for Academic Affairs Vice-President lor Research Stewart Frederick D. Rossini 
that Stanford and like institutions fail to meet those costs, they contribute to a national education deficit where it will hurt the most—at the cutting edge of knowledge." 
The degree to which Notre Dame has been af­fected by the dollar squeeze until now has not been critical. Despite having to absorb significantly larger operating expenses each year the University has suc­cessfully treaded the rocky fiscal waters which have hurt other colleges and universities. 
"The Notre Dame story," remarked Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president of the Univer­sity, "has been a remarkable one. You might even call it 'fantastic' when you consider our capital devel­opment in the last seven years." 
June  1954  
Total Enrollment  5401  
Undergraduate  4770  
Law Sch. & Grad.  631  

Since I960 campus property has more than doubled in dollar value. It has gone from $24.6 mil­lion seven years ago to $50.1 million today with replacement value pegged at $87.5 million. At the same time the Notre Dame endowment has grown from $13 million to a book value today of $51.3 million. 
And the JDlace continues to grow. "We must if we want to provide a top education," adds Father Joyce. "But as we grow in the days immediately ahead of us, we must do so in a very careful and selective way. These things have a tendency to ex­plode. I think you'll find that future major moves will be in those areas in which we want to move the most and in that which we can do best." 
One of the men charged with implementing these goals is Dr. Thomas Stewart, associate vice-president for academic affairs. Since 1965 he along with others has pursued a "systems approach" for realizing Uni­versity objectives with the resources at hand. 
The "systems approach," much like that brought 
nto the Federal government by Defense Secretary Robert McNamara and applied with well-acclaimed success, helps integrate broadly and in detail the ele­ments which make up the University — faculty, stu­dents, buildings, etc. 
"Instead of claiming it as an efficiency move," remarked Stewart, "I would rather describe it as an approach to realize the most effective way of pro­viding a university education." 
One tool Stewart is using in this analytic approach is a "model department." He describes it as "a pic­ture of the department in action that handles the logistical problem of how much, staff and other re­sources the department needs." 
Like Father Joyce, Stewart maintains that a uni­versity must decide for itself the kind of education it wants to provide. 
"There's no such thing as an ideal university," he says. "On the one hand, universities should develop their own interests and project their own strengths while students, on the other hand, must determine 
1960  1964  1967  
6396 5474: 922  6802 5704 1098  7425 6038 1387  

Operating Costs-.  $13,000,000  $18,741,968  $26,991,361  $36,123,178  
Room and Board  850  850  850  850  
Tuition  750  1000  1400  1600  

Gifts (Chal. 1,1960-63, $18.6 million), (Chal. II, 1963-66, $22 million), (Summa, 1967-71, $52 million) 
Research Endowment (book value) Salaries Student Aid Plant Fund Value 
Replacement 

p62,195  $2,582,242  $4,041,900  $8,965/70  
13,000,000  23,682,322  31,189,000  51,307,831  
5,803,000  9,514,053  13,252,000  18,399,651  
444,351  660,000  1,521,322  3,050700  
18,973,431  24/501,785  40,388/65  50,189;2O7  
72,442,000  87,500,000  

ALUMNUS MAY 1948 JUNE 

where their interests lie and go to that institution 
which fulfills that interest. This is why so many col­
leges and universities are getting into a financial bind. 
Iristead of refining their goals they are meandering 
in the knowledge explosion." 

To what degree in dollars and cents has Notre 
Dame succeeded in meeting its operating budget? 
"In the past." said Comptroller Richard Lynch, "we've managed to realize a 'relative' breakeven. In three of the last four years we've had deficits of less than $200,000, and in one year the financial report reflected an excess of about $27,000." 
A t the rate Notre Dame is growing within today's US economy, Lynch believes that the University will have greater difficulty meeting its budget and will have to dip into unrestricted funds to meet operating costs. "We've just finished our budget meeting for the 1968-69 fiscal year," commented Lynch, "in which we started off with a planned $5 million deficit. Since then we've pared it to a half a million." 
Deficits in the past have been bridged by monies from the Current Fund, financial resources derived from educational and auxiliary enterprises. Unre­stricted gifts, on the other hand, have been used to build capital assets, i.e., endowment, buildings, cash, etc. 
One of the University's assets has been the funds from the federal government. It, perhaps more than any one single item, has shown the most dramatic growth of income for the University. 
"This becomes pretty obvious," commented Dr. Frederick Rossini, Notre Dame's vice-president for research and sponsored programs, "when you realize that about one quarter of the University's cash flow is directly attributable to the federal government." 
In 1946 total sponsored research projects at Notre Dame came to $30,000. In I960 the figure showed an increase to $1.25 million. But since then the figure has exploded where this year Notre Dame's federally supported research efforts neared $9 million. 
"The federal government is significantly involved in ways other than research," Rossini noted. "Uncle Sam helps the individual student through student aid and the campus at large through funds earmarked for construction of physical facilities." 
On the Notre Dame campus federal support played a key role in the building of the Radiation Research Laboratory (total), the Computing Center, Lobund, the nuclear accelerators in the physics de­partment, and the soon-to-be-built Life-Science com­plex. Most recently, government help was contracted through a $3 million loan to begin construction of the high-rise dormitories. 
Both the Vietnam war and the government's in­tention to cut the federal budget could have an effect on funds for the University. 
Rossini observed, "the really big projects won't be affected significantly. Where it will hurt most, however, is when the small projects come up for renewal. They're likely to be severely clipped or wiped out entirely." 
Rossini added, "A significant cutback of federal funds would also hurt the University at large. We feel that research opportunities benefit the entire community for they make a teacher that much more knowledgeable which, in turn, enhances the quality of his instruction to the graduate as well as the un­dergraduate student." 
Another source- from which Notre Dame hopes to meet its future financial commitments is from vol­untary contributions. However, what used to be called "fund raising" at Notre Dame is now considered "development" and the University is gearing up ac­cordingly. 
"Actually, it's more education than anything else," believes James W. Prick, vice-president for pub­lic relations and development. "The day is nearly gone when fund raisers merely go about knocking on doors with their hands open. Now to gain the interest we must tell the 'what-why-when-where-and-how' of Notre Dame. Interest then peaks into involvement and eventually investment." 
Frick and his staff of developers are taking that long-range philosophy and literally putting it on the road. Early this summer the Foundation's area direc­tors will be assigned various sections of the country. They will be the University's official representative in the areas where they reside. And their role will be to provide a service for the University as well as assisting Alumni and non-alumni in matters pertaining to Notre Dame. 
Frank Kelly, assistant director of the Foundation, views the new arrangement as a two-way function. 
1« ALUMNUS MAY 19<8 JUNE 
Vice-President for Pub/i'c (•/otioiu and 0«ir»(opin«ir, Janut W. Fried 
"It's nothing more than simple communication, a sort 
of conduit between the Campus and the local com­
munities." 

Under the reorganization, Frick and Kelly will handle the South, from Texas to Florida up to North Carolina. Dennis Troester, a member of the Founda­tion staff since 1962, will reside in Los Angeles and be responsible for the entire western United States from Kansas to California. John W . Crowe, formerly as­signed to the Mid-Atlantic states, will now work out of New Vork City and cover most of the East Coast. David Shanahan now assigned the Chicago area will enlarge his responsibility to include several midwest states. And Brian Regan, the newest member of the staff, will work the Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania region. 
SUMMA, the University's third capital funds drive in seven years, is the immediate attention of the development staff. Already, Notre Dame's profes­sional group and its extensive network of volunteer workers, have raised in nine months over 60 percent of the $52 million goal. Success preceded this current campaign when Notre Dame went over the top in the $18 million Challenge I (1960-63) and $22 million Challenge II (1963-66) efforts. 
Any way one gauges it, Notre Dame and all of higher education is big business. It is so big that the welfare and future of a nation is dependent upon it. In its present financial straits, it would appear that what is needed now is a reverse relationship: a nation so big that it can be counted on to guarantee the future and welfare of an educational system. 
—John P. Thurin 
ALUMNUS, Editor David J. Shanahan trian C. (agon 
AlUMNUS MAY 1948 JUNE 

ND Mourns Loss of an AUTHOR 
CDWIN O'CONNOR was a person of 
true humor — that is, he had a %varm, living consciousness of hmnan foibles. He showed this character in his ways and works even as an under­graduate when his writing actually anticipated the famous novels of his mature years: Tlie Last Hurrah, The Edge of Sadness and All in the Family. 
I can cite a story he published in Scrip (November, 1938), then the student literary quarterly, entitled "Friends Are Made in McCabe's." It opens: "Everybody that hung around Jimmy McCabe's Place knew OUie Moran and Phil Rotardi. I knew them best of all. I still know them, only now they aren't friends, and the three of us never go out together any more. 
"But I go to Jimmy McCabe's Place every once in a while, and someone always asks, 'How is OUie?' and 'What is Rotardi doing these days?' They both are doing quite well, but that is not connected with this story. I am the only one that can and will tell this story, because I am the only one that knows why OUie Moran and Phil Rotardi never come to Jimmy McCabe's Place any more." 
Here he set a tone which he main­tained during the following 30 years of his life. The most careful of crafts­men, he could be ironic, wildly ironic, and comic, but he could never be mean or exploitative in his approach to his characters and their situations and problems. He had a real feeling for them which touched underneath the surfaces to "the tears of things," the pathos of human existence, of our mortality. 
In The Edge of Sadness, for one example, he details the reflections of Father Hugh Kennedy on the plight of his vocation: ".. . I saw now, in a flash of long-postponed revelation, and with a sense of shock and dismay, how littie by little the unimportant had become important for me, how those things which belonged properly on the edges of my life had in fact become the center. 

"The young priest, without realiz­ing it, had become little more than a recreation' director: a cheerleader in a Roman collar. . . . What he may not see is that he stands in some danger of losing himself in the strangely engrossing business of simply 'being busy'; gradually he may fmd that he is rather uncomfortable when­ever he is not 'being busy.' And, grad­ually too, he may find fewer and fewer moments in which he can absent him­self from activity in which he can be alone, can be silent, can be still—^in which he can reflect and pray. . . . Something in him \vill have atrophied from disuse, something precious, some­thing vital. 
"It wiU have gone almost without, knowing it, but one day, in a great crisis, say, he wiU reach for it—^and it wiU not be there. And then .. . he may find that the distance between the poles is not so great a distance after all." 
The sensitive insight and human compassion of this passage were at least as characteristic of Edwin O'Con­nor as was his high talent for comedy and caricature. 
His re-creation of his generations of Irish-Americans must remain an im­portant and memorable achievement in contemporary American literature. He succeeded in imiversalizing his Bostonians just as Joyce succeeds in 
universalizing his DubUners. Above all, 
O'Connor could catch the voices of 
people. This was natural and easy for 
him—for he was himself an entranc­
ing conversationalist. And his wide 
variety of frieiids—^in the arts, in edu­
cation, in the Church, in politics, in 
the publishing and entertainment 
worlds—treasured him for his talk, the 
talk which is, of course, echoed in his 
stories. 
Still they treasured him more simply 

for his being and for his capacity for 
- faithful friendship. Hb death certainly deprived the contemporary scene of a fine novelist from whom vital works were yet to be expected and were under way. Most poignantly, it de­prived those who knew him well of the presence of a man whom they loved for the fineness of his life, the sympathetic kindness of his com­(tanionship. Honors and prizes had no special appeal for him. But the values and meanings of his friends continued always to have an enormous appeal. 
Notre Dame -meant much to him. I have often thought that it might one day be the central background of a novel. For he retained a remarkable affection for this school and its people. It was his place, the place of his growing up. He genuinely enjoyed his student life, laughing at its incon­veniences or restraints, at any aspects that seemed untoward. 
His classmates, of whom he was very fond, as well as his teachers, can recollect tiie simny, witty way he had with him — an equable disposition which he did not lose during the after-years of new and not always easy, 
•'although successful, experiences. 
Lately, for more than a decade, he made annual visits to the Campus, usu­ally with new manuscripts which he tested on students before publication. He would stay a week or so, living in the Morris Inn, walking around the Campus and the lakes, conversing with underclassmen and faculty in the cafeteria, reading from his books in classes and working steadily on new creations. 
The students found his visits quite exhilarating. Indeed, just before his death, I was asl ^ many times: When would he be coming again? Our stu­dents will miss his visits. And his close friends, here and elsewhere, will for sure sadly miss him in his living. But all of us wiU always have re­membrances of his vividness and will have his books, bringing his life back to us. 
—Prof, frank O'Malley 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

EDWIN O'CONNOR Wrote with insight and compassion. 
I .* 

and a PRELATE 
ANYONE who has ever been to At­
lanta knows that whatever you are 
looking for is sure to be found on a 
street named Peachtree. 
It might be a sign of the respecta­
bility of the Church in the new city 
of the Old South that Christ the King 
Cathedral is at the intersection of 
Peachtree Road NE and Peachtree 
Way NE. 
It's a good neighborhood at Peach­
tree and Peachtree. In late March the 
spacious lawns of the mansions are 
Masters' Tournament green and back­
yards slope toward wooded areas. 
Rich's department store trucks know 
their way about here. 
The Cathedral itself is unpreten­tious (intimidated perhaps by a more impressive Protestant edifice down the block) but gains stature from its handful of uplifting, magnificent Georgia pines. At the head of its main aisle one weekday in late March rested the catafalque of Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan '32. Death had come early tl.e previous morning after a five-year bout with hepatitis. He was 56. 
Flanked by six ugly-yellow funeral candles every ex-altar boy can remem­ber lighting too many times, the coffin was open to the midaftemoon light. A Paschal Candle biunned over the Archbbhop's head. 
There were no lines such as those which wound around St. Patrick's. The only persons in the Cathedral were the writer, an elderly man in an ill-fitting suit and a small group of grade-school children saying the Ro­sary under the stem eye of a nun. 
"Hail Mary, full of grace. .. " 
The elderly man was kneeling stiffly and crying. He said later it was his birthday. He was 67. 
"The Lord is with thee..." 
The Archbishop looked much as he had during his declining months: ex­ceedingly frail, very pale, but \vith a glimmer of kindness. He wore white vestments, a white miter and what ap­peared to be a foreshortened black­and-white stole. His shoes were shined (they looked suspiciously new), but at least the undertakers had resisted the temptation to put white gloves on him as they sometimes do with bishops. 
"Blessed art thou among women. . ." 
Except for the coffin scene and the guest registry (which revealed a cross-section of the faithful), there was nothing out of the ordinary. The om­nipresent temporary-permanent altar-facing-the-people was ready for Mass and the Missal rested on an outsized 
ALUMNUS MAY 19i8 JUNE 
pillow. A simple bishop's sanctuary 
throne was on the congregation's left, 
cushioned appropriately in green and 
bearing the Hallinan coat-of-arms. 
There were no flowers; the Arch­
bishop had requested donations to an 
Atlanta charity instead. 
The Rosary had finished and there 
was a chan^g of the v^l. While the 
one nun somewhat impatiendy ush­
ered her charges out of the pews, a 
younger nun brought another batch 
of children down the center aisle^ 
stopping just short of the casket. The 
boys wore blue shirts and black ties; 
the girls were dressed in black watch 
plaid jumpers and white blouses. 
"Children," the nun said, "This is 
Archbishop Hallinan. His soul is in 
heaven. Follow me now around the 
coffin, but do not touch the Arch­
bishop." She wore a tradidonal habit, 
complete with old-fashioned, thick-
heeled shoes. The children followed, 
glancing quizzically over their shoulr 
ders in hopes that a second look would 
bring more imderstanding. 
The first nun — the one who had 
treated her children rather gruffly — 
returned quietiy to the coffin to say a 
prayer. She stood there for only a mo­
ment, but during that moment she — 
secretly and genfly — moved her hand 
next to the Uvid fingers of the Arch­
bishop. 
She touched the Archbishop. I saw her. * * * 
A few weeks before he died. Arch­bishop Hallinan was quoted as saying there were among US bishops "per­haps 30 to 40 good renewal men." The tragedy of his death is that this small number is decreased by one at a time when the Church can ill af­ford it 
Many Atlantans praised Archbishc^ Hallinan for making the Church pres­ent in this Southern community in a manner more effective than any of his predecessors. He did it without compromising his views on social or Church reform. One of his first ac­tions was to integrate the Catholic insdtudons in the area and he was a lifelong proponent of liturgical re­newal. 

He spoke out often on the pressing issues of the day, including the vexii^ problem of Vietnam. He eschewed both the vacuous rhetoric which some­times passes for episcopal hmnilies and the strident, emodonal language too often heard from reformers. Aind his 
ARCHBISHOP PAUL HALLINAN Spoke with tongue of man and angel. 
•.5-!S«^_^ "iSM 
fefe-s-v­
^^Pl 
Mm 
SSes 
1^1 
discourse, while straightforward, was 
unfailingly civil and courteous. 
Perhaps most important about the 
life of Archbishop Hallinan is that 
in a time when the role of a bishop is 
being redefined in tenns of an "au­
thority' of sen-ice" he seemed as close 
to realizing it as anyone. 
May he rest in peace! 
—Richard Conklin '59 
Postgraduate Work 
The Notre Dame Alumni Senate re­
convened on Campus May 10 for its 
second annual meeting. There the 
lOO-meniber body gained its official 
status in the Alumni Association, up­
dated its contact with the University 
and, before returning home, had 
sessions witli today's students. 
The Senate became a reality rather 
than a proposal when the Alumni 
Board adopted a resolution recogniz­
ing the Senate as an official consulta­
tive gi-oup. The Board, which met 
prior to and in joint session witli the 
Senate, will continue to be tlie legis­
lative ' body for tlic 43,000 ND 
Alumni. 
The Senate will be composed of 
Club presidents and other i-cprcsenta­
tives, with tlie handful of veiy large 
Clubs having three Senate seats, other 
large Clubs two seats and the Clubs 
with fewer tlian 200 members one 
seat 

Senators are being asked to affiliate with one of four standing committees —admissions, continuing education and faculty' relations. Clubs or student affairs — and diese areas were ex­amined closely at tiic May session. 
Alumni Association Honorary' Pres. Ambrose "Bud" Dudley will preside over die Senate during its first year of formal opei^ation and the presiding officer thereafter will continue to be the immediate past president of the Alumni Association. Dudley told the Senators at tJieir opening meeting that in the past die Alumni haven't shown a gi-eat deal of strength as a group. "If we get organized with some strength," he said, "die University will be interested in us. Of course, we are not trying to force anyone's hand on anything." 
At the admissions meeting Bro. Raphael AVilson CSC, director of ND admissions, outlined his proposals for involving Alumni Clubs in the work of seeking out die best prospective students. In Febmary Brother Wilson sent out a letter ending activity of die old Alumni inter\'iewing boards. These ceased to be of value, he said, because of improved counseling services in high school. 
But he feels contact between Alumni and prospective students is still valuable and asked tiiat Clubs %vas speaking as a "converter" and establish recruiting committees to urged tiiein to get Uieir fellow Alumni work in cooperation with his office to back to see the students and the supply up-to-date infomiation on ND Campus and feel the pulse of the requirements and programs. facult)'. 
He also asked that Clubs establish According to Fadier McCarragher, an annual ND Information Night for "The students haven't changed any parents and prospective students as through die yeare—you (the Alumni) well as Alumni to learn more about have. You see things in the light of m the school. These would supplant your position now. For some reason University particijiation in "college you deify the old morning checks— nights" wliicli Brother Wilson referred but you didn't deify them when we to as the "sliopping center" approach had tlicm! to college selection. 
"You wanted tiic same things 

A third admissions office proposal today's students want—you just didn't for Clubs is the establishment of an get them. Tlic students today are annual award to a high scliool Junior better organized." He said the stu­boy who axemplifies the academic, dents today want human rights and Icadershijj, personality and character human values, not a winning football traits ND is seeking in its students. team and the problems of '68 aren't 
The Senate members were directed to tlic same as the problems of '58, '48 
discuss these possibilities with their and '38. "To be honest widi our­
Club members. 
selves and our generation, we have to 

Brother ^Vilson also stressed tliat understand the younger generation," ND is short of applicants for engineer­he urged. ing and science and that he hopes to At the student affairs session, new bring about a greater diversity in the Student Body Pres. Richard Rossie 
ALUMNI BOARD, SENATE ond STUDENTS IN DIALOGUE* 
Round two of religion and discipline. 
student body — more non-Catholics and other student leaders explained and more Negroes, for instance. their brand of student government 
Continuing Education. Alumni Sec­and fielded questions from the Sen­retary Jim Cooney '59 pointed out to ators. Rosare told them "We are tlie senators and ISoard members Uiat seeking sclf-govenimcnt because we a recent Alumni sun'cy showed the want to be treated as adults." two areas Alumni arc interested in as Religion. A session on religion 
i 
Club projects are continuing educa­brought the most audience response. tion and community service. Some of Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, University tile continuing education possibilities chaplain, described the student visita­discussed were arranging a University tion program he and his assistants speaker's bureau of faculty members, undertook during the school year and kinescoping of "The Professors" TV told die Alumni there has been con­show and greater use of the Center for siderable emphasis on die renewal of 
I 
Continuing Education facilities. the Church liturgy on Campus. 
At a luncheon preceding die session "Some of the halls have been having on student affairs. Rev. Charles Mc­some way-out Masses," he pointed out Carragher CSC, vice-president for 
*AIumm and students fielding questions from tlic student affairs, described the new ND floor arc: Ambrose "Bud" Dudley, Dick Rosentlial, Fr. Rielilc. unidentified student. Student Body 
student He wai-ned tiie Alumni lie President Ricli Rossie and Mike McCauley. 
AtUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

ft 
and the Sunday Mass at Sacred 
Heart has become less important with 
tiie advent of daily Masses in the 
donnitories and midnight Masses. 
Father Fey said the Catholicity of the 
students couldn't be measured by at­
tendance at Sunday Mass. 
This raised a question from one senator wlio wanted to know whether a student who helped out tutoring the underprivileged and spent his siunmer working in South America and went to weekday Mass but purposely avoided Sunday Mass was committing a mortal sin. Father Fey answered that "in his book" it would be a mortal sin. 
Another Alumnus asked what was being done to bring back the students who had lost their faith and Father Fey answered, "I can't do any more than knock on dooi-s." He said he felt the students who may seem to have lost their faith were merely CKpcriencing a "liang-up." 
After another senator asked whether a count of die communion 
hosts consumed on Sundays wouldn't be an indication of Mass attendance. Father Fey retorted he wasn't in charge of piuxhasing altar breads. Then another Aliminus stated "We shouldn't Judge students by whether they go to Mass but by what they do for the human race." 
Club of the year. Other Alumni Club business discussed during the three-day session included the an­nouncement that a Chib-of-the-Year Award would be made for the first time next May. Cooncy explained tJiis would probably be given in each of the Club size categories. 
Alumni Board members reported on their first visitations to Clubs in their districts, a new progi-am initiated after the last Alumni Board meeting. 
Board members are now meeting an­nually with the major Clubs in their geopraphical district to increase com­munication between the University, the Board and the local Clubs. 
The Alumni will be asked to vote 
tliis year on Alumni Association Con­
stitution changes which will divide the 
country into 15 regional districts and 
increase the board membership from 
the present 13 to 16. 
Alumni Senator and Board Mem­bers were special guests at the annual Senior Dinner given for the graduat­ing Class by the Alumni Association May 9. A special event at the dinner was a presentation of a plaque by the Class of '68 to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, who is celebrating the 25 di anni­versaiy of his ordination this spring. 
In liis after-dinner talk to the youngest crop of Alumni, Cooney described for the seniors a "guy w'ho went through a process of agonizing indecision at about your age. He had a rather high opinion of his own ability and a fierce deteiTnination to somehow make a mark in life, whether or not it meant bowling over a couple of adversaries . . . His dynamism, his determination and his fascination were fixed on a dream, a new enter­prise that would truly be his. 

"He headed north a couple of hundred miles, and with about 400 bucks in his pocket and seven cohorts who weren't cvactly w'liat you'd call academic or executive types, he set about the foimding of the University of Notre Dame." 
New Life for an Old Club 

Community service may someday be a byword for Notre Dame Alumni Clubs. The Indianapolis Club has been one of the first to respond to the urging of Alumni Board members to undertake a civic project. 
Under the direction of Clay Smith '60, a former FBI agent, and Rev. Joseph Wade '60, an inner-city as­sistant pastor, the Indianapolis Club has joined the Voluntary Advisors Corps, a social action program set up on a person-to-pcreon basis. 
VAC, which was originated and is sponsored by the Indianapolis Cham­ber of Commerce, is made up of in­dividuals who assist in the education of the jobless. Their main aim is to help the hardcore unemployed secure jobs by instilling in them the needed confidence and initiative. 
Notre Dame Alumni joined the project in April and, after two in­formation meetings with the profes­sional VAC directors, have already been assigned to their first job "candi­dates." The ND group even includes 
BILL McGOWAN '57 Pulling for the down-and-outers. 
one gal—^Mrs. Larry O'Connor—who came to a meeting with her alumnus husband and found she couldn't re­frain from joining the efTort herself. Now efforts are being made to enlist even more wives. 

Retiring Club Pres. AVilliam Mc­Gowan Jr '57 reports the information meetings didn't paint a very rosy pic­ture of what the volunteers were get­ting into. "\Vc were told we must e.K­pcct a lot of fnistration because the people we help are the real down-and­outers that have been imemployed for long periods of time. They are quite skeptical of any help at all." 
The volunteers aren't supposed to merely hire a person in their business or direct them to someone who could hire them. Their efforts are directed toward other goals—helping the peo­ple find themselves as well as jobs. 
Their information kits stress job inteiView skills and techniques—^'Ic-Gowan says some of the jobless don't know what clothes to wear for inter­views—and aptitude testing which is available free from several businesses. 
"As a last resort, the Chamber of Commerce does have some jobs avail­able that they can direct these people toward," McGowan says, "but they try to steer away from bus boy and filling station posts." 
VAC members are given a card with the name, address, phone num­ber and age of their candidate plus some information concerning the length of his unemployment and any physical difficulties he might have. It is then up to the VAC volunteer to contact die candidate for the first pep talk. 
The results are not always fast in coming. A volunteer may meet wt h 
ALUMNUS MAY 75i|58 JUNE 
his client three times and the person may get a job in a month—or the volunteer might have to stay with the ])erson six months or longer before he has a job. 
Though they are just getting started, the Club has already received favor­able front-page publicity because of their efforts and all the members are enthused. New Club Pres. Robert Kane '50 says the program will defi­nitely be continued during his term in office—and he expects much wder participation. 
Pretty Proud of the Place 
ND Alumni, an especially faithful group of Catholics, are concerned about the quality of religion courses at Alma Mater. According to a re­cently compiled survey of liberal arts graduates, only 11 percent rated their religion courses at ND as "excellent" and an additional 14 percent rated tliem as "very good." And, contrary to some expectations, there was no appreciable difference in the way reli­gion courses were evaluated by recent graduates and older graduates. 
In general, however, tlie Alumni think very highly of Notre Dame. Ninety-three percent evaluated the University (during the time they were students) from "good" to "excellent" and the overall evaluation of ND to­day is an even higher 95 percent. 
A total of 5,300 Alumni selected at five-year intervals beginning with the Class of 1932, were sent questionnaires covering three major areas — their evaluation of the ND of their day, their educational experiences while students and their attitude toward the University today. Responses were re­ceived from 2,400 Alumni. 
Dr. Frank Fahey '49, associate pro­fessor of sociology and anthropology, analyzed the data from the 634 ques­tionnaires returned by graduates of the College of Arts and Letters, the largest of ND's four colleges. Replies from graduates of Science, Engineer­ing and Business have yet to be stud­ied. The survey was suggested by the Arts and Letters Advisory Council. 
"It is somewhat startling in these days of criticism to see the high evalu­ation Alumni have given Notre Dame," Fahey stated. Pointing up ND's drive for excellence, Fahey said, is the fact that more Alumni rate it now as "very good" or "e.xcellent" than would rate the ND of their day in those categories. More than 70 per­cent have made contributions to their Alma Mater within the last two years. 
Discipline. The general relaxation of discipline at ND brings mixed re­sponses. Most Alumni thought the change in rules had a positive effect in the areas of scholarship, maturity and sense of responsibility. However, they did not feel that relaxation of the rules had such a good effect in areas of morality, religious experience and family relations. 
"The older the Alumnus, the dim­mer his views on relaxing controls," said Fshey, noting that the youngest Class surveyed — 1962 — takes a more liberal view on the matter of disciplinary rules. 
When asked to list criteria for en­trance into ND, liberal arts Alumni ranked intellectual competence far above the fact that the applicant came from an Alumni family. College Entrance Board Examinations, high school grade average and high school class standing were listed in approxi­mately equal importance while "other members of the family attended" ranked seventh as a consideration for admittance. One of the classes ranking "alumni family" signlficandy higher, Fahey pointed out, was the Class of 
1947 who as fathers are now the most concerned with placing their sons in college. 
What happens to the ND Arts and Letters graduate after graduation? Fifty-two percent go on to receive advanced training; 26 percent have professional degrees; 19 percent have an MA and 3.5 percent a doctorate. Earlier classes had a heavy percentage of students entering professional fields such as law, but the current trend seems to be toward post-graduate ed­ucation outside professional schools. 
Affluent. The relatively high occu­pational prestige of Alumni is re-
FALL CLASS REUNIONS 
Fall Class Reunions immediately follow­
ing the Oklahoma Game (Sept.2I),the 
Purdue Game (Sept. 28), the North­
western Game (Oct. 12) and the Illi­
nois Game (Oct. 19) have been 
planned by class officers. At press time, 
the schedule reflected these class 
gatherings: 
CLASS OF 1928 
Illinois O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1929 
Purdue Engr. Bldg. 
CLASS OF 1939 
Purdue O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1952 
Northwestern O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF 1954 
Oklahoma Engr. Bldg. 
CLASS OF 1957 
Illinois Hotel to be announced. 
CLASS OF 1959 
Purdue O'Shaughnessy. 
CLASS OF I960 
Northwestern Morris Inn. 
CLASS OF 1964L 
Purdue To be announced. 

fleeted in the fact that 23 percent earned more than $22,500 in 1967. An earnings plateau seems to be reached about 25 years after gradua­tion. 
Politically, the Arts and Letters Alumni are split almost evenly be­tween the 40 percent who characterize themselves as "Republican to some degree" and the 43 percent who see themselves as Democrats. Political afiiliation is not affected by year of graduation or income. 
When it comes to religion, the liberal arts Alumnus rates his "total religious experience at ND" much higher than his religion courses. Sixty-one percent consider their religious experience on Campus as "good" or "excellent." A total of 85 percent of the respondents attend religious ser­vices at least once a week, while only four jjercent never attend religious services. 
About Church. The Class of 1962 had a high jiercentage—^22 percent— who do not attend religious services at least once a week. "It may be safe to predict that the Class of 1962 will rejoin the ranks of the faithful in the future," Fahey said. "At the present time, 30 percent of the graduates of this Class are single, which is consider­ably higher than the average of about 5 jjercent for the other Classes. It is a well-known fact that the stability of marriage and the desire to impart re­ligious norms to children increase religious attendance." 
Other aspects of the Arts and Let­ters Alunmi profile which came out of the survey are these: More than 90 percent of the graduates think ND produces a "good" to "excellent" person in terms of his contribution to society. The ND graduate is not a "joiner," but is active in organizations he does belong to, often holding office in professional-business groups. He reads 92 hours a month, a third of it sjjent on newspapers. Eighty-six per­cent would attend ND "if they could do it all over again" and the same percentage want their sons to attend ND. 
Not So Impossible Dream 
David challenged Goliath and came off top dog. That is pretty much the story of '43 grad John Gilligan's May primary battle to wrest the Democratic senatorial nomination from longtime Ohio politician Frank Lausche. 
Lausche had been a big-time win­ner in the state for years, serving an unprecedented five terms as governor before moving to Washington as sena­tor. His position had been considered so unbreachable that even Robert 
ALUMNUS MAY 1948 JUNE 
JOHN GILLIGAN Beating the unbeatable foe. 

Taft Jr decided not to run against him. 
But Gilligan, unimpressed by the record, noted that last year Lausche had chosen to vote negatively on pro­grams being proposed in Washington which would provide more than $35 million for construction of college fa­cilities in the Cleveland area. He pointed out to the voters that had Lausche been successful, it would have been impossible for colleges to raise funds they desperately needed. 
It was incidents such as this which made Gilligan decide that this was the year of the big challenge. The Ohio labor movement and the state's Democratic committee chose to back Gilligan rather than the incumbent Lausche. 
Gilligan's time in the Cincinnati city council and the US House of Representatives proved him a loyal Democrat with a liberal voting record who is as concerned about the prob­lems of the suburbs as he is about the debacle in the urban areas. 
"We tend to forget the problems of the suburbs as we dwell on the pressing problems of the central cities," he comments. "If elected sena­tor, I promise to support those pro­grams that will help to channel funds not only to the central cities, but to the suburban communities as well." 
Gilligan is aware of the citizens who need governmental assistance. "I be­lieve a very high priority must be placed on such programs as aid to education. In Congress I supported this type of legislation as I did all other types of meaningful programs that help close the gap between what our citizens need and what can be ob­tained," he said. 
In a vigorous campaign Gilligan 

ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
used television as one of his main routes to the voters while Lausche chose to concentrate on talks before small groups. The tactics showed up at the polls. When the ballots were tal­lied Gilligan had garnered 560,000 to Lausche's 435,000. 
The next order of business for John Gilligan is the senatorial race in No­vember. He will be running against Republican William Saxby who is cur­rently carrying the title of attorney general. But Saxby is no Goliath and the odds in favor of a new junior Democratic senator from Ohio are in­creasing daily. 
Joliy Good, Fellow 
Paul Anderson '59 is one of the 19 young men from across the nation se­lected as a White House Fellow for 1968-69. There were 100 applicants for the fourth year of the fellowships which give first-hand, high-level ex­perience with the federal government. 
The 49 fellows selected during the first three years of the program acted as assistants to White House staff members, the Vice-President and Cab­inet officers. During the past year fellows have attended policy confer­ences, been involved in urban pro­grams, worked to improve present programs and suggested new ones, conducted briefings, participated in inter-agency task forces, supervised staff work and otherwise assisted top officials with their daily work. 
The job assignments are designed to give the fellows a better under­standing of the process of government and the work experience is not neces­sarily directly related to their chosen professional fields. 
Anderson, who received an MS at Came^e-Mellon U. in 1963, is per­sonnel manager at Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc. in Chicago. Most fel­lows return to the former position at the end of their year's internship. 
You CAN Fiitt CHy Hall 
John A. Keever '58 cuts red tape —for a living. As one of four adminis­trative assistants to Cleveland's new Mayor Carl Stokes, his job is advising businessmen on how to get things done at City Hall. For instance, he might help get a zoning change so a business or industry could expand. 
Keever was manager for industrial development of the Greater Cleveland Growth Association before he took the $15,600 a year post wth the Stokes administration. Before that he was a factory representative of Union Twist Drill Co. in Athol, Mass. 
He relates that "When Mayor Stokes asked me to take this job, it was one of the more easy decisions in my life to say 'yes.' Not only do I be­lieve in the importance of the work 
(I had been involved in the retention and expansion of Cleveland business for the past two years), but the added bonus of working under the mayor was and is continuing to be most exciting and challenging." 
Keever places heavy emphasis on helping the businesses that are already located in Cleveland. "We feel that since 85 to 90 percent of the eco­nomic growth in most areas results from the companies already located in those areas, our first duty and greatest potential is in helping with the retenticm and expansion of these companies," he says. 
Besides effecting I^islation, Keever tries to assist businesses by seeing that they receive good municipal services such as water and electricity and — 
KEEVER, AAAYOR STOKES, BUSINESSMAN KB4NETH NASH Open the dpprs and see all the people. 
importantly — by "sitting down with the businessman when he comes to City Hall for help and making sure he imderstands that in any large mu­nicipal organization things move slowly." 
He points out "this fact is espe­cially important if you realize that in business a head of a company, when he wants to get sometliing done, issues an order and expects that order to be carried out in an efficient manner and in a reasonable period of time. How­ever, when coming to City Hall with a request, he is immediately con­fronted with a large and firmly en­trenched bureaucracy." 

An ex-Jaycee president who lives in suburban Bay Village, Keever feels that Cleveland, under Mayor Stokes, is making headway \vith tlie specific problems of the businessman. "Very quickly after the election in Novem­ber," he says proudly, "the business­man found the doors to City Hall open to him. This has been a very important factor in creating a good business and industrial climate." 
To maintain and improve diis cli­mate, the mayor has introduced legis­lation into City Council to create a new department of the city which will provide a staff for economic develop­ment. Keever has been assisting in setting up this new department which 
•will work with the Cleveland Growth Association to attract new business and industry. 
One of his other duties has been working with the mayor in obtaining both technical and monetary assist­
ance from the federal government "I 
must say that the cooperation of the 
federal government has been most 
gratifying," said Keever. 
Somehow he also finds time to be a 
student at Cleveland Marshall Law 
School, a member of the Bay Village 
Recreation Board and a father to 
seven children. 
Manpower a la McFadden 

One of the many jobs of an alumnus is to use his education for the bene­fit of the society in which he lives. James J. McFadden '42, former labor commissioner of NYC, is fulfilling his job while he also fills the jobs of thousands of others. TV High School, TV Shorthand, Office Career Train­ing, Job Training Information Cen­ter and A Job Advancement Program are all included in the Manpower Educational Institute which was or­ganized in March, 1966, under Mc­Fadden's direction. 
Financed by labor and business or­ganizations as well as federal and state grants, the Institute's purpose is to enable an individual to get the edu­cation and training necessary to re­ceive a job or better job. Greater income, a chance for promotion or advancement, further education and personal satisfaction are among the other benefits to be gained. 
The TV High School course, 60 half-hour television shows, is designed to give adults who do not have a high school diploma an opportunity to achieve one. Telecast five nights a 
week for viewers in the New York-
New Jersey-Connecticut area, it is 
picked up by television stations in 114 
other viewing areas from coast to 
coast Each night is devoted to one 
subject — science, social studies, gen­
eral mathematics, English grammar 
or literature. With 59 million adults 
in the US lacking a high school edu­
cation, the program is slated to be 
repeated as long as there is a demand 

for it 
After gathering and classifying all information about the hundreds of job training and skill improvement pro­grams available through industry and schools, McFadden's Institute estab­lished an information center which makes use of an automatic informa­tion dispenser. The machine is in the lobby of the Grand Central Post Of­fice in NYC. By pushing any of 120 buttons on the machine, a pierson re­ceives a three and one-half inch slip listing the skill requirements for an occupation and information on where to apply for job training. 
TV Shorthand is a 39-show tele­vision series designed to upgrade clerks and typists to secretaries and stenogra­phers, occupations where severe short­ages exist It has been viewed in more than 100 cities. Also incorporated into a television series is Office Career Training. This program aids new workers in gaining basic knowledge of the expanding employment field. 
The Job-Advancement Program set up under labor-management joint aus­pices is training 5000 mechanical, electrical, trucking and building ser­vice workers for advancement to higher-paid jobs that require greater skills. The same number of unskilled applicants are then trained to fill the openings created- by the promotions. 
McFadden created all the Insti­tute's programs which were then de­veloped under his direction by leading professionals in the education and training fields. McFadden makes it a point to attend most of the graduation functions of the classes in NYC where he meets with the graduates of the programs and discusses with them their problems and accomplishments. 
"We know that those who graduate from our skill centers are almost 100 percent successful in obtaining higher paying jobs and that about 60 percent trf the TV High School graduates have already been able to get them­selves classified in higher skill cate­gories because of their high school diploma and have become eli^ble for jobs that had been previously closed to them. We feel that those remain­ing will use their diploma to take ad­vantage of new opportunities which 
McFADDEN and HIS AAACHINE have been opened for them," McFad­Inches of Instant Information. den commented. 
ALUMNUS MAY 19i8 JUNE 

FROM FAR-FLUNG CORRESPONDENTS 
RUSSIA: A Country of Contrasts 
JIM MULLER '65 is doing something to improve Russian-American relations and he's doing it on the most intimate level—person-to­person contact. He describes his adventures in low-level international diplomacy in this story, the second in our "From Far-Flung Cor­respondent/' series. And his letters in reference to the story were filled with other gems. 
He found Russia a country of contrasts and described seeing a demonstration of leeches used for bleeding a patient with congestive heart failure almost in the same paragraph with a discussion of the great Russian surgeon Pirigov who used ether regularly a year after its introduction in the US. "With typical Russian vigor" Muller commented, "he performed 740 autopsies while investigating a cholera epidemic." Muller made a friend in Aleck Pugachev (pictured below with Jim) and often visited his home and the theater with him. Pugachev wrote a story about Muller which was distributed inter­nationally through the Novosti Press Agency of Moscow and now the two medical students have their own private medical book exchange. 
This summer Muller, an Indianapolis native, has been asked by Johns Hopkins to translate a new Russian textbook on medical plan­ning methods employed in the Soviet Union. Next fall he will enter his final year of medical school and then take an internship in internal medicine. His plans beyond internship are uncertain, but one pos­sibility is that he will take a residency in cardiology preparing to do basic research on the cardiovascular system. Or he may begin pre­paration for a career in medical planning and the study of health care delivery systems. 
Muller also hopes to promote an exchange program between Hopkins and the First Moscow Medical School. He has talked with the Russian dean who has indicated his interest and he is to meet soon with the Hopkins dean and the hospital president to discuss the formation of some kind of closer contact. This "medical bridge" would help to strengthen relations between the two countries, Muller feels. He points out that after living in Russia he feels "more strongly than ever that we as a nation have both a great task and a great opportunity to enlarge our areas of personal contact with the Russians. We must show them not our bomb shelters and our nuclear missiles, but our people and our hopes for peace." ALUMNUS Editor. 
T
HE Soviet-American conflict that has been threatening mankind for over a decade with a nuclear holo­caust of completely unimaginable pro­portions is fortunately showing signs of resolution. The possibility that we can continue to improve our relations directed my actions and observations during a recently completed five-month stay as a medical exchange stu­dent in the Soviet Union. 
I would like to describe for you my rather strange path from Badin Hall to the First Moscow Medical School, relate several personal experiences with my Russian friends, stressing the attitude that may help us find peace and finally, on the basis of my ex­perience in the Soviet Union, point out a path we Americans might fol­low as our contribution to the final resolution of the cold war. 

My interest in Russia began when my father. Dr. Paul F. Muller '39, suggested that Russian would be an interesting and useful language to study as a fulfillment of a medical school requirement. In my Junior year at Notre Dame I began Russian and 
ALUMNUS MAY 19«8 JUNE 

enjoyed the class so much I elected to attend an intensive six-week sum­mer course. With a great deal of en­thusiasm for the language, my room­mate, Edward Ward '66, and I labelled objects in the room with their Russian names and made a promise to speak to each other only in Rus­sian. We had a very quiet room. 
I didn't think of Russia again until I was about halfway through a cadaver in a quiet anatomy room of the Johns Hopkins Medical School. Somewhat in need of an exciting plan for the future, I thought a great deal about how I would spend five months of elective time available after my school year of medical school. At this point I heard Dr. Russell Nelscm, president of the Johns Hopkins Hos­pital, speak about his six-week trip through the Soviet Union. Several days later in Dr. Nelson's office I ex­plained to him that I had heard his talk, knew the Russian language and was considering spending five months in a Russian medical school. 
Travel Grant. With Dr. Nelson's en­couragement and assistance, I ap­
plied to the Inter-University Com­mittee on Travel Grants, a committee that selects about 40 graduate stu­dents and teachers each year for a six-month or one-year period of study in the Soviet Union. The committee is financed in equal thirds by the 50 member universities, the Ford Foun­dation and the State Department I was accepted by this committee in February of 1967 for a five-month pe­riod of study in Russia. 

Sept. 1, several months ahead of the Russian winter, I arrived in Mos­cow prepared to take up residence in the 30,000-student dormitory' of Mos­cow State U. Numerous difficulties face a newcomer to the Soviet Union's largest university. 
To obtain mail, a visiting student must stand in line for up to 30 min­utes before shouting his name across a counter to a gold-toothed, ener­getic litde lady. She searches intently through a box filled with mail ar­ranged only by the first letter of the recipient's last name. A student whose last name began with a commonly used letter would often find his mail practically in shreds from the re­peated inspections by this clieerful but determined worker. Systems of simi­lar efficiency are ever-present traps for the vbitor to the Soviet Union. 
A ridiculous post office scene which occurred too many times during my stay demonstrated the limits of my knowledge of Russian. Prior to de­parture from the US I received a mimeographed sheet from the Amer­ican Selection Committee giving my address in Moscow: 
USSR 
Moskva 
Moskovskii Gosudarstvenii 
Universetet 
Do Vostrebovani 

Niesvestno, Ivan After adding my name to the bottom I gave the complete address to friends 
who planned to write. Later in Mos­
cow I learned from other American 
exchange students of the double iden­
tity I had unwittingly acquired. The 
last line of the address had been 
added by the committee as the Rus­
sian equivalent of John Doe. Nie­
vestno, Ivan — literally translated — 
is Ivan the Unknown. 

Ivan ihe Ten-ible. On my first few visits to the jxKt office I was content to ask only for mail for James MuUer. But as time passed and letters became more important, I decided to ask for Ivan's mail as well. On a particularly busy day, with an S-shaped line of 30 daydreaming students behind me, I shouted "James Muller" to the clerks and received disappointing "nyets." I then quietly attempted to reveal myself as Ivan the Unknown. "Ivan who?" she shouted with a wrinkled brow. "The Unknown Man, my God," she muttered, a smile growing on her face as she began to finger the letters. 
Two other plump women postal workers looked up from their stamp­ing, surprised to see a man as mys­terious as Ivan the Unknown with such an unmysterious blush. But Ivan had mail and even the chuckling of the 30 interested students was not too high a price to pay. 
Overcoming my postal shyness with this great success, in the future I asked for mail under the names James, Ivan, Muller or Unknown. As the clerk and I became acquainted, I could fortunately decrease the volume of the requests making it less of a public comedy. I eventually explained to her the ori^n of the confusion. In a sincere effort to comfort me she beautifully summarized my feelings about the whole matter of Ivan. "Don't worry about this," she ex­plained, "my son was away in Egypt and he did a lot of stupid things too." 
After spending the first month in an intensive Russian language pro­
gram, I enrolled as a regular student 
in the First Moscow Medical School, 
a six-year school which students enter 
directly after high school. The stu­
dents greeted me with the immediate 
warmth and curiosity often encoun­
tered by Americans in the Soviet 
Union. 

A morning in one of the steeply tiered medical school amphitheaters could demonstrate many unexpected features of Soviet life. A particularly interesting day began with Misha, an intent Jewish student leading me page by page through a book of pictures of the 1941 German invasion. He stopped at a picture of a German tank dragging a Russian girl to talk of the suffering his people endured and of the 20 million Russians lost to Hitler. This consciousness of World War II was something I encountered many times — in their movies, in their 
newspapers and in their private con­versations. Even today West Ger­many is considered second only to China as a threat to the Soviet Union. The US is ranked third. 
Lecture Music The sadness of the picture and Misha's comments were broken by the unexpected surge through the amphitheater of a rapid and cheerful piano concerto. While waiting for the cardiology lecture to begin, a student had started a brief pre-Iecture concert on a piano behind the rows of seats. The students' knowl­edge of music, art, poetry and litera­ture continually amazed me. It is not unusual for a student to attend the concert, ballet or theater once a week. Many times I was asked about the poetry of Robert Frost or about the novels of Hemingway, Steinbeck, Faulkner and Mark Twain. 
Although perhaps the Russian med­ical students have broader interests than their American counterparts, their attentiveness to the cardiology lecture fell below American standards. But the lecture itself was very good 
A BEAUTIFUL MISS 
Contrasts in Red Square. 
TWO GOOD FRIENDS One speaks English. 

and a number of tlie better students followed it carefully. 
After the lecture I got my first surprising look at the new genera­tion's attitude toward Communist propaganda. A heavy-set bespec­tacled student leader announced that he had a letter from the students to the central committee of the Com­munist party concerning the 50th an­nivcrsaiy of tlie Bolshevik revolution. He would read it for their approval. '"VVc approve, we approve," came the chorus of voices as the deeply inspired leader began the litany of Communist achievements. "We condemn capi­talist aggi"ession and imperialisdc at­tempts to deprive men of their free­dom," he continued, as the eyes of the students focused on a tennis ball being tossed about the room. Several girls to my right completely ignored the tennis ball game, their attention excitedly focused on a French fashion magazine. \Vhen the speaker finished, I heard chants of "Read it again, read it again," as the smiling students left for lunch. 
My bewilderment with this display of apparent irreverence was increased when I heard several of the songs popular with the students, songs mocking military life and military thinking, songs of the folly of building rockets when men are starving. But as I grew to know my friends better, I learned beneath their dislike of sim­plicities and slogans lies a deep com­mitment to the Soviet government and the idea of a socialist state. They do not have such a fanatic belief in their system that they feel it should be imposed on the rest of the world, but they prefer to improve the qual­ity of their own lives by working on problems inside the Soviet Union. They are eager for better relations ivith the US. 
At the Parade. Despite the many indications that the US and the Soviet Union %vill continue moving closer together, my constant concern over the nature of our present reladonship was heightened during the Nov. 7 military parade. Young soldiers with balloons smiled to us as their tanks rumbled past. A large object was ap­proaching; I strained to look into the sun. A hush fell over the crowd of Russians and their children. 
The silence penetrated as all heads turned toward the lumbering 25 by 40-foot Intercontinental Ballistic Mis­sile. This huge dark object cast its shadow over those of us near the front. My thoughts were of the hun­dreds of rockets like this one not in a parade but always minutes away from a journey to every major American city. I thought, too, of the silent Rus­sians around me who could also imagine similar rockets that might destroy their homes and dties. 
Strengthened by my feelings during the parade, but acting primarily on a plan formed over a year earlier, I made an appointment to see a high Russian health official. On a cold Moscow' afternoon I met in a high-ceilinged conference room with the efficient and somewhat formal Rus­sian physician. I told him of my feel­ing that increased Soviet medical co­operation could serve two purfHwes— not only the advancement of medicine but also the reduction of international tension. 
With this statement his formality vanished. He leaned forward, elbows resting on the green felt table top, and v/ith some emotion explained his feel­ings. He had long thought that such contact would be valuable. The re­sults would always be uncertain but the size of the problem justified the effort of the men involved. He would give his support to any proposal for increased cooperation. 
Having left the Soviet Union, I re­tain the memory of this doctor and many other Russians with similar con­victions. Because of these men we are able to present the Soviet Union not with a new orbital bombing system but with people and programs dedi­cated to the development of our com­mon interests. I believe that Notre Dame men are particularly well-suited to examine their sphere of activity, decide that it might serve as a bridge between East and West and generate pressures for the development of spe­cific programs. With such dTorts the improving trend of Soviet-American relations will not only continue but accelerate. These two naticms having rejected the black abyss of thermo­nuclear conflict can now move through emphasis of our common in­terests to a relationship tndy reflect­ing the greatness of the Russian and American peoples. 
Doctors, Dentists Join RanJis 
The spring 1966 issue ot the ALVMNUS carried the announcement of the action by the Universit/s Academic Council makins it possible for fonner three-year pieraedical students to receive BS degrees from ND. This action was a culmination of a move­ment started several years before to bring these former students—many of them the University's most loyal supporters—into the graduate ranks of ND in the Classes with which they had been affiliated. 
A survey conducted recently by Dr. 
LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER MS '31, 
PhD '33, former dean of the College of 
Science and now associate dean for pre­
medical students and chairman of the de­
partment of preprofessional studies, to as­
certain the number of former students who 
have received their degrees within the past 
two years reveals some interesting statistics. 
From the 1923 Class Dr. CHARLES T. 
MORAN requested his degree. He was 
graduated from and is now on the teach­
ing staif of the U. of Louisville School of 
Medicine. 
The 1930 Class now includes FRANCIS 
J. ARMBRUSTER, a graduate of Chicago Medical Col.; GEORGE F. HEWSON, MD from St. Louis; EUGENE E. RAY­MOND from Jefferson Medical; HOW­ARD B. SLAVIN from Rochester. 
In the 1931 group are included FRANK 
D. CONOLE of Jefferson Medical CoL and PAUL F. FOX from Loyola in Chi­cago. The Class of 1932 has four more members: JOSEPH W. RAYMOND from the U. of Pennsylvania and TIMOTHY SULLIVAN from Northwestern Medical School. P.AUL A. DAILEY of Chicago Medical, WILLIAM P. HAMILTON of Marquette Medical Schooli. 
PAUL F. MULLER of St. Louis Med­ical School and EMERY M. RANDALL of Marquette have been added to the 1937 Class. The 1943 Class adds RICHARD L. MILLER of St. Louis Medical School and THOMAS M. SPENCER of the U. of California. 
WILLIAM J. DUNN and JOHN H. MCLAUGHLIN, both from IlUnoU Med­ical School, FRANCIS P. MARTIN from NYU and RAYMOND H. MURRAY JR from Harvard Medical School swell the 1945 ranks and 1946 adds THOMAS H. GREIWE of Cincinnati Medical, JOHN 
B. GRIFFIN of Northwestern Medical and WILLIAM B. KING of Indiana U. 
Three St. Louis Medical School gradu­ates, ROBERT J. GAUER, RICHARD L. MYERS and DANIEL W. SHEA, have been added to the 1948 Class. The 1949 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
Class has added JOHN F. BLACK­HURST from the U. of Michigan Medical School, EMILIO R. GIULIANI of Georgetown (now teaching at the Mayo Foundation), VICTOR L. LASH of Northwestern Medical and ALBERT J. SCHREDER of Temple School of Den­tistry. 
The 1950 group has four St. Louis Med­ical School graduates, JOHN J. BUDD 
JR, GEORGE E. M.\HA, FRANCIS N. 
RITTER and WILLIAM I. STRYKER; 
also JOHN J. CAHILL from the Vermont 
Medical School. 
The Class of 1952 included three from 
Loyola, JAMES T. BOTTICELLI (now 
teaching at Marquette Medical), 
GEORGE M. HALEY and JOHN J. LA­
BOE from dentistry; JOHN P. DELA­
NEY from Minnesota Medical School; 
JOHN C. DOIRON JR from Georgetown; 
CHARLES V. EDWARDS from Creigh­
ton; and DEE J. McGONIGLE JR from 
St. Louis School of Dentistry. 
Only two have been added to the 1954 Class, RICH.\RD C. SIMONS from Northwestern Medical (now teaching at New York State U. Downstate Medical Center) and RICHARD W. FOLEY from Loyola Medical School. 
To the 1955 roster the names of AR­THUR BEVACQUA from Tufts School of Dentistry, JOHN L. NEHER from In­diana Medical and FRANK E. SCHMIDT from Tulane Medical School have been added. The 1956 Class had three Loyola Medical School graduates, FRANCIS E. CICCIARELLI, JOHN N. COMITO and JOHN L. DWYER. 
In the 1957 group, Loyola Medical School contributed five. RAYMOND J. DesROSIERS, MICHAEL A. HOWARD, JAMES R. KENNEDY, RONALD N. LORENZINI and FRANCIS J. PEDACE. Also in this group are KENT F. BORKO­VEC of Northwestern Medical School and ROBERT I. BRANICK of the California Medical Center at San Francisco. 
The 1958 group has three from St. Louis Medical School, JAMES F. KING, SAMUEL A. NIGRO and STEPHEN C. SCHINDLER. Also in this group are THOMAS J. HERRMANN from Michi­gan Medical School, RICH.\RD J. KLINE from JeflTerson Medical and GERALD F. SAUER from Illinois Medical School. 
The 1959 Class had the largest group to be added to date. Four were from Loyola, WALTER C. MILLER, WILLIAM V. MOLLIHAN, JOHN P. RENFREE and JOHN D. SALETTA. In this group are included also ROBERT S. C.'VLLAGHAN from the U. of Chicago Medical School, MICHAEL C. HUGHES from Wisconsin Medical School, CH.\RLES H. LESAGE JR from Northwestern, PATRICK S. Mc-GREEVY from Creighton and MICHAEL 
R. SMITH from Washington U. 
In the 1960 group there were two from Loyola, CHARLES S. GEIGER JR and WILLIAM T. SHEEHY; two from St. Louis, JOSEPH A. BARDENHEIER III and MARION S. PANEPINTO; THOM­AS J. CUNNINGHAM from Albany Med­ical School; WILLIAM T. FRIEDE­WALD from Yale Medical School; JOHN 
W. MEARA JR and DANIEL J. SCAN­LAN from the U. of Detroit School of Dentistry. 
The Chiss of 1961 has added RICH­ARD C. SCHMIDT of Tulane Medical School, HARRY N. WINTERTON of Louisiana State Medical and ROBERT 
F. YARIO of Illinois MedicaL In the 1962 group Loyola has con­tributed two, JOHN S. GONCHER JR and THOMAS F. NORTON. Others are 
THOMAS A. BACKER from Indiana U., THOMAS S. DINA and PATRICK D. 
SULLIVAN from Northwestern, BRIAN 
W. KENNEDY from Iowa and THOMAS 
W. LITTLEFIELD from Detroit School of Dentistry. 
In the 1963 Class are included CLIF­FORD L. ANZILOTTI from the U. of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry, JAMES 
A. AUKERS of Northwestern, VINCENT 
E. FRIEDEWALD from the Southwestern Texas Medical Center, DAVID Y. GRA­H-AM from Baylor, JOHN F. KWINN and EDWARD S. SCANLAN of Illinois and MICHAEL L. McARDLE of Indiana. 
For the Class of 1964, the Illinois Medical School has contributed t«tro, THOMAS J. CUSACK and JOHN T. MEHIGAN. Others are ROBERT F. BURGFECHTEL from Iowa, PAUL M. FITZGERALD from Tufts and DANIEL 
E. HORAN JR from St. Louis. 
By the time this goes to print, appUca­tions from the 1965 group will be coining to the proper ofiices. 
Basically, the degree candidate needs only to have received a degree from a recognized school of medicine, osteopathy or dentistry, prior to which he had com­pleted a minimum of six semesters at ND. As previously stated, the degree will be dated according to the graduation date of the Class with which the candidate was affiliated and it will bear the signature of the dean of the College of Science at that time. 
Since letters continue to reach the Uni­versity from former students who failed to see the previous announcement in TH E ALUMNUS and who are interested in a closer liaison with the University, a re­statement of the policy as well as the presentation of these statistics were deemed advisable. Candidates may file their request for degrees through letters to Dean Ber­nard Waldman, College of Science. 
Dr. Baldinger is maintaining a close contact with three-year students who are gaining admission to professional schools. There does not appear to be any uniform pattern; in September of 1967, 13 of our juniors entered professional schools and six are scheduled to enter in September, 1968. Eleven students who have finished their sophomore year in June, 1968 have indicated that they intend to apply for the September, 1969 classes in medical or dental schools. Not all students who in­dicate an intent to enter a professional school after three years follow through v/ith their plans; many decide that they need the fourth and culminating year to broaden their education. While it would be expected that many parents would welcome the financial relief of such a plan, for the most part they are happy Miben the boy decides to complete his undergraduate education at ND. 
—Lawrence H. BaUimgtr 
Oil 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 117 SUNSET AVE. LAGRANGE. ILL. 60525 
GROVER F. MILLER '16 1206 SOUTH MAIN ST. RACJNE, WIS. 53403 
EDWARD McOSKER '17 525 MELROSE AVE. ELGIN, ILLINOIS 60120 
DAN E. HILGARTNER >17 P.O. BOX 75 HARBERT, MICH. 49115 
HERBERT H. MUNGER '15 was honored as 
ND ''Man of the Year" of the Toledo area. He 
served 20 years on the State Board of Examiners 
of Architects, four as pres. 
Birthday greetings to ARTHUR R. CARMODY 
'15 whose birthday falls in &fay and to EMMETT 
G. LENIHAN '15, HARRY J. MORLEY '11-U2, and JOHN A WELCH. '11.'17 who arrived in June. It is my wbh that your special day finds yon enjoying the very best of everything and prayerful good wishes for many more. 
John A. Welch resides in Indianapolis and is engaged in the insurance business. He has a son and daughter and a grandson who is a freshman at ND and a granddaughter at St. Mary^s. 
A recent letter from DAVID M. LIPFERTT '11-'12 is \*ery much appreciated. He wrote '^Thanks for remembering my birthday; how you ever found out, unless you tell me, I will never know. Even my luds are not sure about it. I did not graduate from Notre Dame—I guess you can call me a dropout. I did become a successful mining engineer. I am retired. I have two children, a son in Santa Ana, Calif, and a daughter in Marion, IlL and eight grandchildren. My close friend and neighbor here in Indian Lake Estates, Fla. attended schocj and lived in Wheaton, 111. for a number of years. He tells me he has played around LaGrange, as the schools competed in sports, you may know him—HAROLD "RED" GRANGE. 
"I drove the horse that pulled the hot dog wagon at all ND home games. The stables at that time were back of or west of the'Morris Inn. I think JESS HARPER was coach then." 
little has been seen or heard about JOHX JOSEPH McSHANE '15 for a long time so it seems appropriate to quote some sage remarks about him which appeared in the 1915 Dome. " *Mac' is an Indianapolis south side Irishman who can tell you all about the riots and the frenzied politics of the Indiana metropolis. He is an undisputed authority on railroading and such historical facts as the one he sprung about Queen Elizabeth dying without any supporters, poor Elizabeth. He will argue hours on any question and can, with such a husky voice, drown out all <ippo^ion. His abundance of good hearty en> thnsiasm and energy has made him unusually prominent in many ways. It may be safely said that this good natured and loyal Hoosier has been one of the best students in the Class and we will give him a good mark on his chances of making the world take notice." 
Those of you who haven't looked through the Dome of your year \vill find it interesting. 
To bring these notes to a close I must bring to your attention the fact that not a single yellow **What's New?" card has reached my desk since the first of this year. I am sure at least some of yon would hold me negligent if the 1915 Class column tvas blank in one or more issues. Send me some ncivs—see page 31 of the March*ApriI issue for list of suggested items. Don't put it oS^— do it now—the news won't keep. 
—ALBERT KUHLE ALVIN H. BERGER '15, after spending the winter at Eustis, Fla. returned to his home at RR2, Stur^, Mich. 49091. "Hcinie" hopes to make it to the Reunion. 
BRAULIO A. MUNECAS '16 writes he may be able to hop into Campus for the 1968 Reunion. HARRY C. BAUJAN '17 has reported he will return to Campus for '18 Reunion and 50-Year Club. Hope that **YOUNG DUTCH" ARTHUR 
J. BERGMAN '17 can make it and that "TEXAS" WILLIAM A. GRADY '17 will be there, the good Lord %villing. D. M. NIGRO, pres. of the Rockne Club of America, writes that he'll be back come June. 
Wedding anniversaries: June 5, GEORGE F. FRANTZ '17, 720 8th St., Fennimore, Wis. 53809; Jane 7. DANIEL E. HILGARDNER JR '17, 7172 Horseshoe Dr. Harfoert, Mich. 49115; Harry C. Baujan '17, 2069 Rustic Rd., Dayton; July 19, Arthur J. •'Young Dutch" Bergman '17, 3910 Rosemary St., Chevy Chase, Md. 20015. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

Mememher ivhesi Hugh O'Donnell was directing merely the ND Glee Club and not the entire University? Jim McMakon sent along this picture of the second ND Glee Club, 1916-17, and he and Bernie Volt passed the photo around trying to identify all the faces. They weren't 100 percent success^ fulj Voll explained, because "More than 50 years have elapsed and our memories are not what they once were" Left to right, first row, however, are Emmett Kelly, Matthew Trudelle, George Shanahan, Richard Daley (twice captain of the basketball team), Hugh O'Donnell, Howard Parker (an outstanding pianist and also editor of the '17 Dome^j Harry Scott, James McMahon, Harry Burt; second row^ Who Knows?^ John Callan, John Urban Rieley, Wish We Could Tell You, Paul Fogarty, Someone, Jerome Miller^ Harry Kelley, Robert Cosgrove, Frank Carey, Jose Corona, Ted Carmody; third row, Ed McOsker, James Hayes, Delmar Edmondson, Emmett Hannon, Bernard VoU, A Chap, Leslie Yeager, Leon Russell, An Unknown Quantity^ Someone's Son, Walter O'Keefe; fourth row. Who Is That?, Fred Mahaffey, John Doe, John Ruess, Daniel Quinlan, Rigney Sackley, Francis Jones, One of the Best Singers, Richard Dunn and Dillon Patterson, Maybe you are among the unrecognized. If so, let your Class secretary in on your latest doings! TH E ALUMNUS will be glad to publish other old pictures (with identifications, 
please!) as space permits. 
EMILIO SALAZAR '16, his wife and one daughter, after waiting two years and three months, were in the fint freedom flight from Cuba to Miami March 
3. Having been deprived of everything he ownedj he was given clothes and a flight to Lafayette, Ind. Avherc he has a son. In Cuba he was \dce-pres. and operating engineer for Sinclair Oil Co. from 1933 until 1960. He is \nth relatives now and he can be reached at his son's home, 1416 Warren PL, Lafayette 47903. He has gone to New York to see about his retirement pay with Sinclair Oil where he has contributed to retirement funds for 27 years. 
I hope to see him in a few weeks and would 
like to bring him to the Reunion in June. What 
a story he will tell! If you remember him why 
not drop him a line now. 
These Reunions arc wonderful and we who 
reach the 50th anniversary of our graduation are 
welcome back every year and you*d be surprised 
!iow many you'd know from Classes before and 
after us. 
Send me some neivs about yourself so our bul­letin space has lines of Interest. -GROVER MILLER 
1918 
GEORGE WAAGE 3303 WRIGHTWOOD AVE. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60647 
April 18 I had lunch at Mofris Inn with Rev. CHARLES J. WILLUMS and Editor JOHN P. THURIN '59 to discuss Reunion plans. Our sincere wish is that all of you enjoy your Reunion. It was decided that this report would be most brief with a complete report made in next issue of ALUUNUS about our golden jubilee. 
An ordination anniversary wilt be celebrated June 10 by Father WiUiams, St. Malachy*! Rectory, Rantoul, lU. 61866. 
Wedding Anniversaries: June 1, Dr. EDWARD 
J. REYNOLDS, 497 Highland Ave., Maiden, Mass. 02148; PETER J. RONCHETTI, 1242 
ALUMNUS MAY ^96B JUNE 
Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex., wedded to Anne at St. LawTence Catholic Church, S. Wil­mington, Grundy Co. III. June 7; JAMES P. LOGAN, 2951 S. FUhnore, Denver 80210, June 16, RAY C. WHIPPLE '18, 373 Western Ave., Joliet, HI. 60435; June 20, ALLAN W. FRITZSHE, 575 Washington Ave., Elyria, Ohio 44035; June 25, GEORGE E. HARBERT, 3521 15th St. Court. Rock Island, lU. 61201; July 1, THOMAS H. KING, Chomeiry Circle, LouisvUle, Ky. 40200. 
Send a birthday greeting: June 13, Dr. Edward 
J. Reynolds, 497 Highland Ave., Maiden, Mass. 02148. June 16, LAMBERT Q. SENG, 6508 N. Glenwood Ave., Chicago, 60626. June 29, AL­BERT S. O'SULLIVAN, 513 Wanen Ave., Bel­videre. III. 61008. July 12, Rev. Charles J. Wil­liams, 311 E. Grove Ave., Rantoul, III. 61866. July 14, THOMAS L. MOORE, Box 2417, Tuba, 74101. July 29, JAMES G. WALLACE, 1132 Bellevue Ave., Syracuse, 13204. 
BERNARD VOLL and CARLETON BEH aid their respective spouses have returned to their permanent homes, after a winter sojourn in Phoenix, where they represented our Class at the funeral of MATT TRUDELLE. God rest his tool and remember him in your prayers. 
The PAUL FOGARTYs have sold their Chiago apartment and bought an ocean tnnt condominium in Dcliay Beach, Fla. where they will live year round. 
CHET GRANT'S new book, Btfort Roehu ct Notre Dame, is very interesting and especially to those of us who were in the preparatory department before the War, the big one, and belonged to the Notre Dame lifers assoc. Toss a hint around the house that you would like a copy for Father's Hat or the Fourth of July. 
1919 
THEODORE C. KADEMAKER PERU FOUNDRY CD. 
PERU. INO. 46900 •i AAA JAMES H. RYAN 
1 U /l l 2*70 EAST AVE., APT. 3H 
J.VM V ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14610 
I am saddened about the death of PAUL LOOSEir on Feb. 22, a World War veteran, one of our Toongest memben, 68 years old. He was president of the Knt Bank of Okarche, OUa., and a dvie leader. He left many accomplishments to the public, ai>d was conudered the main cos in the wheel of local citizens. He started the Lions dub in his to%ni. He weathered the depression days, and was one of the soundest financially in the state. 
He leaves a daughter in California, his wife at home and his son. He is an ND graduate and has been with Patd for a long time and is well able to cany on the bank. To us he was a fine man whom we all loved and admired. Now his is added to oar list of misnng membcis. 
I find it is very gratifying to secure the follawing iidbrmation by long djstancf to pass on to you. I win continue to do so, but I also appeal for information I ilo not get in this w&y. 
HARRY P. NESTER of Columbus is devoting Us time in a legal capacity for the Ohio Industrial Gonmiission, but has been taking a short recess from a very strenuous job. He shotdd be ba d next week and as a lawyer in public office, be should be active and in fine shape to repeat dw fine sfint he is capable of in our next Reunioa. He said that Dr. PAUL SCOFIELD, son of a brilliant and noted sergeant, has been lost in the lazy atmosphere of Alabama for a long time. Hii address now b 1040 Martha Lee Lane, Ro<& Ledge, Fla. Profesaonally, he has been with m Doctor in a US Army attachment in Alabama. In our day, you will recall his charming aad popular activities in, our dass. A letter from tboie who knew him mi^t get him to come to our next Reunion. I tried by teleidume last time ia itmn. 
TOU OEVINE of Cohmibas by occnpitioM a 

real estate operator is now retired. EDWARD 
LALLEY who has enthusiastically attended all 
our Reunions, plans on retiring from the Diocian 
magazine in June. His work on the paper has 
won great praise and he has met u-ith the dis­
pleasure of the Bishop of Sioux City for not con­
tinuing his very able management. 
EUCENE 0»TOOLE's address now is 858 Lane 

Dr., St. Joseph, Mich. You will recall he came 
from New Jersey to graduate at ND as a chemist 
with JIM BAILEY and other hard working 
engineers, but could not resist the charm of a very 
persuaave and lovely girl from St. Joseph. He 
became the merchant pnncc of all the area around 
St. Joseph instead of a noted chemist. He will 
not recover from the dread Parkinson disease and 
is cared for in a nursing home. His wife, 
daughter and son live close by. But a few letters 
from you fellows will help a lot. I have recom­
mencM that his wife take a tour to Ireland, 
Paris or Rome—she needs such a trip. 
 DUFFY 
1030 NATL. CITY E. 6th BLDG. 
CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 

1921 
DAN W. 
Dear *2I—your secretary would appreciate very 
much if you would send to him at 1030 National 
City E. 6th BIdg., Cleveland. 44114, >-our telephone 
number with area code. This is being asked that 
we might more easily communicate and make an 
effort to get together more often. I hope it \t\\l be 
a means of bringing us closer together, leading up 
to our 50th anniversary in 1971. Please let me hear 
from you. 
LEO DANIEL KELLEY, the S>Tacuse Kid, 

spent a couple of months in Florida with the bride. 
Without your permission, I have stepped outside 

of our class in my nomination for the Sorin award. 
I nominated a judge, a Federal judge, and I know 
I will get the approval of all at our next meeting. 
 ASHE 

1922 
G. A. "KID" RD. N. 
175 LANDING ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14625 

We of *22 extend our tender sympathy to classmate 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN of 9035 Jackson Park 
Blvd., Wauwratosa, Wis. on the death of his 
beloved wife Mary Xf. She died of a brain 
tumor in Misericordia Hosp. March 17. 
&frs. CuUen, the former Mar>* M. Maurin, was 

bom in Brookljn and vtas reared in Gilbert, Minn. 
While employed by the US Treasury' Dcpt. in 
Washington, she became a member of the Shore-
ham Hotel swimming team and competed against 
the finest girl swimmers of the period. In 1938 
Mary was married to John. They lived briefly in 
Los Angdes and Chicago before moving to Mil­
waukee, where John became mgr. of the Wisconsin 
regional office of veterans* administration until 
retirement in 1965. 
Mrs. CuUen u*as a ci^nc and church leader in 
Wauwatosa. Others of the Cullcn family who 
should be recipients of our sj'mpathy and prayers 
are a daughter, Mrs. James W. Wimmer of 
&fadison. Wis., and two sons, Mark J. of Rochester 
and PETER K. *65 aboard USS Ticondcroga off 
\^ctnam. 
Hearty congratulations to FR.AXK BLOEMER, 
Class agent, who directed his energies so usefully 
in driving our Class into position no. 6 among 58 
Classes contributing to 1967 Annual Alumni Fund. 
In mid-February word came from VINCE HANRAHAN that he and his wife Mary were in Sun City, Ariz, visiting Mary's mother who recendy had taken up re^dence there. At Sunday tkiasi l^nce recognized a classmate, JIM DOLAN, as one of the ushen, and his wife Celeste. 
On March 1, Jim had an ulcer operation in Phoenix and was making fine recovery progress in reports issued by the hospital. 
Vince reported, also, that HARRY McLELLAN '21 and «rife Ella were in the area and there were several delightful social meetings. 
The RALPH CORYNS in late February were motoring in Texas and Mexico along the Rio Grande valley. About the same time, the ED­WARD BAILEYs were visiting a son in Seattle and seeing die scenic grandeur of the Northwest. 
Hearty congratulations and best wishes to BROTHER FINBAR CSC on his 50th anniversary as a Holy Cross brother. What a real treat it was to viat with him at our 45th Reunion. Rev. JOSEPH RICK CSC writes a "quickie" to report his presence in New Orleans at Sacred Heart of Jesus rectory located 139 Lopez St. 70119. He sorely misses his beloved Texas. 
Dr. DAN SEXTON of St. Louis writes to report a St. Louis stop-off by the Ralph Cor^-ns on their return journey to Moline, 111. from Texas, and a very happy Sexton-Coryn visit. Many thanks to 
30 
you, Dan, for your kind rema ^ about die "22 
<:ohimn in the AJ-UMNUS. 
From the Palm Beach area comes joyfol news 

from the pen of PAUL McDERMOTT that A. 
HAROLD WEBER and wife Lucy %vere there one 
day during the winter season for a viat with him. 
March 23 at St. Gregory's church in & n 

Mateo, Calif, occurred the wedding of Dr. 
Richard Frederick Sullivan and Clarion JocBth 
Jones, daughter of R. GEARLD JONES. 
 BRUGGNEK 

1923 
LOUIS V. A
IG67 RIVERSIDE DR.. AFT. SOUTH BEND. IND. «SI6 

Editoj's Note: We have been informti of m* error in the figure used for the percent of CUa contributions to the J967 Annuai Alumni Fund* The last edition showed 41.14 percent of the CUa contribulini. Actually 4834 percent of Ikt IS Class made a contribution. 
 MEEHAN 
301 S. LAFAYETTE BLVD. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 

1924 
JAMES R. 
Editor's Note: We had a tetter from JiM SWIFT » Dallas, He's hoping there are enough survivors to celebrate the Class's 45th graduation mmmver­sary next year and wants to help in promoting the event and this column. He's wondering what' ever happened to PAT BUELL, EARLE HUR' LEY, JIM HURLEY, FARRELL JOHNSTON, GENE AfAYLE, TlAf MURPHY, ARDO REICH* ERT, MIKE SCHMITT and TOM HODGSON and hopes they and others will write and let him know what they are doing. His address is Jitm Swift, Box 2699, Dallas, Tex. 75221. Also, we must report there was an error in the figure used for the percent of Class contributions to the 1967 An­nual Alumni Fund. The last edition showed 3334 percent of the Class contributing when actually 43J92 percent of the '24 Class contributed. 
 P. HURLEY 20B5 BROOKDALE RD. 
TOLEDO. OHIO 43606 

1925 JOHN 
"Never too late." Good news of WALTER CYR*5 wedding to &frs. Alice Emery Iklarron came in an announcement. They were married Feb. 17 in Babylon, Long Island. He was the last bachelor of the Class of '25, A note mth the announce­ment from Walt, "Marriage is a great instituticm! Can't say why I took so long!" Congratulations, Walt. 
FRANK McFADDEN sent word of CHARLES 
W. DONAHUE'S death March 17. Chaih'e letiied in 1953 as manager of the New York News roto m^azine dept. He had been with the News thirty years as salesman and merchandising mgr. Charlie's widow lives at 943 Pomelo PI., Sarasota, Fla. A Class Mass is being said for CHiariie and we wish to extend our deepest sympathy to his widow. Remember him in >-our prayers. 
Talked \nth FR.\NK McFADDEN while spend­ing a few weeks in Ft. Lauderdale. I %vould have seen "Mac" and some of the boys at a St. Kit's party but we had to leave earlier, and missed the celebration. BILL BELL called for a golf game but we couldn't get together. GEORGE LAUGH­LIN was down there and so was JACK SCALLAN but didn't get to see them. JOHN BARTLEY came down after I left. He brought the good word to the '25 Florida colony of W^t Cyr's wedding. 
-iAA/) J. N. GELSON I UVn GELSON & LOWELL. IN a XVwU 200 E. 42nd ST. 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 I have to thank one member of our Class for being kind-hearted and tearing out the yellow card that was in the last issue of ALUMNUS. 
Following is some interesting news about HENRY 
H. REHM: "Elected president Laymen's Retreat League, diocese of Harrishurg, Pa. Wll serve to Oct. 1. 1967. Received first Church and Community Service Award, Holy Name Society, St. Joseph's Church, Lancaster, Pa. Jan. 14. .^so received 40 yr. service award—Boy Scouts in June 1967." 
The only other news that I have to offer at this time is on the sad sde. ED REAUME's irife wrote to tell me of Ed's sudden death on Jan. 30. Besides his wife, he is survived by a daughter and four grandchildren, and a brother, WiDiam '31. 
Word %vas also received of the death of the mother of DAN KELLY of South Bend, &Iuch 11. Bob Smith suffered a fatal heart attack on April 
19. Bob retired in 1960 after having worked 15 years with Miles Laboratories where he had been asst. to the president. Previously he held various position.* with the federal government. He started with our class but was graduated from North Dakota Sute U. At the Reunion in '66. he flew out %rith our "Eastern contingent." Bob b survived by hb %nfe, Isabelle, a daughter, Mrs. Robert Sutton, two sons, Capt. Robert E. Smith with the USAF in HonoltJu and Phih'p V., and two grand­diildrcn. Young Bob started at ND with Class of *59 but transferred after one year to the Air Force Academy. 
Editor's Note: W4 have been informed of an error in the figure nsed for the percent of Class contributions to the 1967 Annual Alumni Fund. The last edition showed 40.45 percent of the Class contributing. Actually 46.07 percent of the '26 CIMSS made a contribution. 
mi 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 
111 W. DOWNER PL. 
AURORA, ILL. 60504 

Tbh iaue of the ALUMNUS mil be delivered 
at approximately the same time that marks another 
anniversary of our commencement, our 41st. It 
u not a particularly significant one, of course, 
Reunions are being held on the campus, but not 
for us. The occa^on, however, does ser\'e to 
remind vs that the years which have passed since 
1927 are growing ever more numerous. 
We are becoming increasingly conscious that in all the affain of life another generation is taking over, slowly, but definitely. In many cases the beads of government, the leaders in business and the professions, the successful men in literature, are >'oungcr than we. 
The transfer of leadership is true of our Uni­versity as well. The paths we trod, the halls in which %ve lived are stiU there, but almost evi>r>'­thing else has changed. Our rectors, our deans, our professors are all gone. Even JIM ARM­STRONG, who until a year ago xx'as the only Alumni Secretary we ever had known, has retired. The only remaining link to the days of the mid-twenties is ourselves. 
As one year follows another in too rapid suc­ccsnon, we become increasingly conscious of other changes. We realize that the >-ounger generation does not think as we did, nor for that matter are they tai^ht as we were. The disciplines to which we wierc subjected and the truths which were impressed upon us apparently were for our gen­eration only or, as Justice Holmes once ex­pressed it in another connection, we are like a railroad ticket "good for this date and train only." Ibfany principles which we held dear arc now being cliallenged. Pcrliaps this is as it should be, but it does leave us a little bewildered. 
We have suffered the loss of two more class­mates. DON WILKINS and HARRY BIEDKA. We all remember Don for his campus activities, chiefly as bus. mgr. of the Juggler for two years. 
His subiiequent career brought fulfillment of his early promise. Following graduate work at the Northwestern school of marketing, he became an advertising rep. for the Chicago Tribune, and later became an account executive in advertising and public relations. He began in Chicago but later transferred his activities to NYC. 
His most outstanding ser\'ice perhaps was as chief of press relations with Gen. Eisenhower at supreme headquarters, Allied expeditionary forces. He received a bronze star for his scr^'ice in the Battle of the Bulge. We can be proud of his record. He attended our 40th Reunion and never lost his devotion to his school. 
We will miss both Don and Harry. A Mass b being said for each on behalf of the Class. You are all requested to remember him in your prayers. 
LOUIS HOUGH of Denver lost his %vife last month and would appreciate prayers. The Houghs have two sons and a daughter. Richard is at San Jose, Calif, wtih United Technology, John is a Jesuit at St. Louis U., and Mrs. Bob Rachak lives in Denver. 
CARLOS TAV.ARES, who originally hailed from Shanghai but who more recently has been living in California, has subdivided a beautiful area in Lajolla known as Muirlands. As part of the project, he gave land for All Hallou-s Church. am told that this sits on a hill and as the parishioners face the altar, the glass windows behind the altar give a view of the Pacific which is especially beautiful at sunset. Carios is entided to plaudits for this. He also should have con­dolences for his mother who died recently. 
Our Class pres. DAN CUNNINGHAM (who also serves as our field rep.) has given your sec­retary more news. While he and his wife Rita were in Jamaica in the early part of the year, they saw AL DIEBOLD and his wife Ruth at Montego Bay. The Diebolds have a daughter, Taffy, who H^U go to Marymount Col. (Va.) in the fall. Dan also was in Chicago a while ago. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
1928 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 
6415 N. SHERIDAN RD., AFT. 1007 
CHICAGO. ILL. 60G26 
Rev. LOU THORNTON, CSC advised mc of the 
death of BILL ARMIN on March 3, 1968 in 
Huntsville, Ala., where he was a contract specialist 
with the NASA. Bill is sumved by his wife 
Dorothy. BILL MURPHY and Fr. Lou Thornton 
represented the Class at the funeral in Dowagiac, 
Mich. lkL\X GAUTHIER of Manchester, NH, 
who is retired from the IRS, became ill on the 
way to the funeral and returned home. Bill was 
very active in our Class affairs and was planning to 
return for the 40lh Reunion in June when he 
died unexpectedly following a heart attack. 
ED CUNNINGHAM of LA has our sympathy 
on the death of his wife. Ed has had three 
strokes but has fully recovered. 
I was pleased to see a picture of GORDON 
BENNETT uith Mayor Lindsay on the front page 
of the Feb. 2 New York Times. Gordon is presi­
dent of the NY State Publishers Assoc and is 
located in BufTalo with the Courier Express. 
Gordon's son. ROBERT '62 is president of the 
Buffalo ND Club. 
While \*acationing in Florida, JIM ALLAN sent 
me a clipping from the Miami Herald with a front 
page picture and story on GEORGE COURY's 
donation of a $100,000 loan fund to four local 
colleges in Miami^—with the stipulation that half 
of the money will go to needy Negro students. 
You probably read in the press about the un­
precedented ruling by US distiict court Judge 
WILLIAM JONES which made available the FBI 
confidential files in a case before him. 
Chief judge of the US district court for Northern Indiana, ROBERT GRANT, was pictured in the St. Mary's Courier. BOB BANNON called from Newark, NJ concerning University organization patterns. He is a professor at the Newark College of Engineering. We enjoyed attending the ND communion breakfast in February with BILL DWYER, CHARLEY SCHUESSLER, PHIL QUIXN and Bill Murphy. 

We spent an enjoyable evening with JOE BRAN­NON in Chicago recently. Joe reports that he talked to our roommate, WILLARD WAGNER, who was visiting in Phoemx. Joe also mentioned that FR.ANK DONOVAN and ED McSWEENEY visited him wlien they were in Phoenix a year ago. Ed is retired. Joe was in Chicago attending a meeting for Montgomery Ward executives. 
Sport writers have noted that BOTTS CROW­LEY will be missing from the Florida baseball training jccne this year for the first time since 1934 as the AfacGregor firm's hasrball sales rep. Botts retired on April 1 when MacGrcgor closed down its garment man'ifacture operation. Botts will be with us for the Reunion in June. Thanks to SAM DUNNE for his unusual Gaelic greetings on March 17. 
r 
Judge WILLIAM JONES, accotdins to tlie 
Washington Post, presided as pres. of the Sodety 
of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in Washington, 
DC at the annual dinner. Bill is spealung before 
the Bar Assoc of the Dutrict of Columbia in 
Bermuda and at one of the section meetings of the 
ABA in Philadelphia. 
LARRY WINGERTER reports that he talked 
to LEO SCHULTHEIS, who is a retired colonel 
living m £1 Paso, Tex. 
TOM WALSH reports that Dr. PATRICK 
JOSEPH SULLIVAN left the Commuiucable 
Disease Center at Atlanta recently to assume charge 
of a clinic in Washington, DC inth the US 
Public Health Service. Tom also advised that 
FRANK CREADON is president of the D&noii 
Stale Assoc, of moiquito abatement districts. 
JOHN MURPHY, TOM HART and JOHN 
IGOE and their wives attended Mass and received 
Communion in Columbus on March 10 for our 
deceased classmates, as suggested in my class notes 
in the February ALUMNUS. 
The wife of Dr. EDWARD HUTH, who received his MA with us, died on December 8, 1965. Ed is praf. of sociology at the U. of Dayton where his daughter took his place as chairman of the dept. of sodology. 
ART HOLTON, retired from USN as con* 
mander, has also retired from high schfMil teaching 
and is now residing in Washington, DC. Art is un­
married. 
HOWARD V. PHALIN, chairman of the board of Field Enterprises Educational Corp. Chics^o, was the principal speaker at the corporation's three-day Midwest convention which was held at the Center for Continuing Education on Campus* The convention was dedicated to Howie who will retire as chairman of the board in October. 

JOHN DAVIS reports from Oswego, NY, where he continues in the furniture business, that ROGER BRESLIN has been made a judge. PHIL BERTH­lAUME is president and general mgr. of his own property and investment company in Fbrt­land, Oregon. JOE BRAUNSDORF Is supers visory engineer with the Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. in South Bend. Joe married the sister of JIM BERRY. 
JOE BREIG, assoc. editor of the CathoGc Universe Bulletin and author of nine books, re­ceived the St. Francis de Sales Award, highest in the Catholic Press Assoc., for most distinguished contributions to Catholic journalism. He also received an LLD from Carroll Col. last year. JOHN CULLEN is mgr. of the western and central NY offices of the Industrial Appraisal Co. in Buffalo. 
ED DEAN continues as vice-pres. and general mgr. of the Great Lakes Carbon Corp. in St. Louis. FRANK DUQUETTE is meter sales engineer with General Electric Co. in NYC. BOB 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 

•/ 
James W. Sullivan '30 has been hon­legislature. Geiger's two-year assignment ored with the Distinguished Citizen will be in addition to his editorship of .Award of 1968 by the Royal Oak, the Farmer's Almanac. Mich. Chamber of Commerce. He was chosen because of his service to chari­
J. W . Bergen '42 has been voted pres­table activities such as Boy's Club, Boy ident of the United States Railway Scouts, United Fund and the St. Vin­Equipment Co., a division of Evans cent dc Paul Society. He has lived in Products Co. of which he is vice-
Royal Oak since graduation and he president and general manager. He owns the William Sullivan & Sons joned Evans in September, 1967. 
Funeral Home. 

William C O'Connor "44 has been Ray Geiger '32 has been elected pres­named a vice-president of Burlington ident of the .Associated Industries of Glass Fabrics Co., a division of Burling­Maine, a lobbying group in the state ton Industries. Burlington Glass manu­
SULLIVAN '30 GEIGER '32 BERGEN -42 O'CONNOR '44 
LAMEY h cUm aailyst in the trafie ckpt. «l 
Whiripool Corp. in EvaanriOe, T^MB.— 
ADRIAN LOPEZ it witk VoGtaat Fktli&fcl« 
Corp. of NYC and b pres. of the Peiiwlicjl aad 
Book Anoc of America. Adrtis icports that 
JOHN WINBERRY looks great after « verr d»­
ficult gaUbbdder operation. 
JOHN LYONS coatimies as jodgc off the 19­
pdhte coort of lIEnois. JOE MORIOSSEy is 
witk the Hamilton Go. Aoiff's office m Gncm­
nati. ORVILLE IfURCH ictbcd tnm the MpoA 
Power Go. after 37 yean of sernce and hm 
opened his own real estate brokcnge bniinrw m 
Alpena, Midi. GENE O'BRIEN, vice-pics. of the 
Sun Newspapers in Hoplum, BCna. saw ART 
CANTY in LA recently. 
LEO G. RC^MER is presL. 01 oie WiKOBsia 
Ftablic Senrice C<in>. CHARLEY SHELANSKEY. 
who B with the NY Slate dept. of audit and 
control, had n serious canfiovascnlar opcfation 
iccentlr. GEORGE WAGNER, who was injnnd 
at Iwo Jima with the US Coast Gaud, if retifcd 
and fivii^ in Sandmhy. Ohio. 
WhDe on vacation at Scottsdale, Aril., LEO 
WALSH tan into FRANK DONOVAN. Leo and 
Flank and their wives had a good gct*tagcther 
taUng over ND and St. Mary's dqrs. 
Older your iootinll tickets for the DEnois game, Oct. 19, the date for our 13ih annual Class cocktail party at ND fonoviing the game. 
JOHN RICKORD ified on April 17 foDoinng a heart attad on a train from Iowa to Chicago. John is survived by his wife and five children. He retired recently firom Armour and Go. in Chicago where he had worked nnce graduation. John attended practically all of our Rcumoos and get-togelhen after games and had looked forwaid to attendii^ our -40th Reunion. 

RICHARD WEPFNER died on Feiicnaiy 10 in Silver Spring, Md. following a heart attack. Dick has been a manufacturer's agent in the Maryland area. He is suivivcd by his vnXe and four childien, including a son in Vietnam. 
I advised the widows of Bill Armin, Didk Weppner and John Riiloid that masses were being offered by the da s for them. 
Judge GEORGE BEAMER of the US district court, northern district of Indiana, spent two weeks with CHARLES HASKEL in Hawan where they attended the American Bar Assn. convention. Chuck is senior member of a very active law fiim in Denver. ART ZIMMERMAN is saks mgr. of Fabricon Ptoducts, ifiv. of Eagle-Picher Industrials in River Rouge, Mich. 
Dr. CARL PETTERSCH, Dean of graduate studies at Western Connecticut State Col., leports he teestahliihed nhtact with VIC ZIMMERMAN after 39 years. Vic lives in Scandale, NY and has a boy in Fofdham Ptep. JOHN ROBINSON is on the board of trustees for the Connecticut State Col. 
factures glass fabrics and tapes for industrial application. 
William Nelson '45 now holds the position of national sales manager of Drexel Fumitiure Co. He has been with the organization since 1958 and last year was named Salesman of the Year. 
Joseph D. Uisina '45 has been an­nounced as executive assistant of ITT Federal Laboratories. Long-range plan­ning activities and coordination of cor­porate communications will be part of Urnna's duties in this newly created positiim. 
NELSON '45 URSINA '45  STAUDER typical of the men who have labored at ND from The? subcontract plumbing and related equipment. 

ENGINEERING BLDG. Father Sorin and Father O'Hara on to Father BILL CRAIG, his wife Ann and their ten NOTRE DAME, IND. 4G356 
1929 
LARRY 

Hesbuigh?" children continue their actn'e schedules. BIU ix'as 
We wish to renew our in\^taiion to joia us in the 
En^ineexing Building immediately after the Sept. 
28 foodull game with Purdue. This annual Class 
of *29 get-together makes it convenient for those 
who arc here to meet their classmates and their 
families. 
We might even come up with some novel sug­
gestions to promote attendance at the 40th Class 
Reunion in June *69. Perhaps you read "Profile 
of a CoHege Class" (40 years after) by LOUIE 
BUCKLEY '28 in March 9 issue of America. 
This five-page cover article was summarized in 
two columns on page 19 of the Afarch-April 
AI.UMHUS. If you haven't read it you wiU find 
it worth the time and effort to do so now. 
Our own FRANKLYN DOAN has a column 
titled "About ND's Compassion" on the inside 
&ont cover of the ALUMNUS. Here is an excerpt, 
**For instance, one of my annual delights is dining 
irith Father Hcbcrt at the Morris Inn. He 
always seems amazed when I recall so many of 
the incidents and so much of the substance of his 
1 ^ Latin class. What he doesn't realize, or 
perhaps has modestly forgotten, is that he freely 
gave me so many of the tools that have helped 
me to survive. But I know it, and my memory 
of it will ever be vibrant and green. . . . Isn't 
this concern of the rarest kind ? And isn't it 
1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
NOTRE DAME. IND. 46336 
The new Cathedral of Our Lady of the Snou3, Fort Portal, Uganda, East Africa, AVOS dedicated April 21. The new building is in the diocese of Most Rev. VINCENT J. McCAULEY CSC and replaces one destroyed by an earthquake in 1966. Bbhop McCauIey u-as a missionary in East Pakistan from 1936 to 1944 and then wns superior of the Holy Ikfission Seminary in Washington. He was assigned to the Uganda mission with the first con­tingent of Holy Cross priests and brothers to go there in 1958. 
He was the organizer and is now the chairman of the Uganda Joint Christian Council and the Toro (a section of Uganda) Joint Welfare Advisory Coundl and chairman of the Association of Mem­bers of the Episcopal Conferences of East Africa. He participated in the Vatican Council and was a member of the Pan Africa Episcopal Conference as weQ as a delegate from East Africa on the World Council of Bishops at the Council. (Bishop Mc­CauIey was consecrated first bishop when the area was made a diocese in 1961.) 
RICHARD P. COGAN died March 22 at his home, 911 Lincoln Way W. Mlshawaka. He was a lifelong resident of Mishawaka and a teacher in St. Bavo's School until De c 7, 1967 when his ill­ness forced him to resign. He uas in business in South Bend until 1961. He entered Bethel College that year and received a BA degree in teaching. He is survived by his wife &fary, a son and two daughteis. 
TIM TOOMEY from his Washington, D.C. beat reports: "After a long absence as a columnist you came throt^b splendidly with Class neivs in last two issues of the ALUMNUS. Please keep up your excellent reporting. The sad news about all deaths b certainly frightening. The families of 'SO men were hit real hard during 1967. If your son comes into town have him contact me at home Federal 7-7400 (after 6 pm, all day Saturday or Sunday). Leave a message if I am not available. I may foe detailed to Boston and I hope to get a permanent appointment there before long. 
"At SUM&IA dinner here the '30 class had the following members in attendance: BOB C<X)NEY, BILL WALSH, PAT CONWAY, Capt. GEORGE O'MALLEY USN and yours truly. 
"JACK WALKER retired last year from Dept. of Defense after 33 years in federal service. His brother Frank still %vorks." 
It %vas good to hear from BUD ROSEWARUE of Grand Rapids recently. He writes: '*My family has been gready blessed through the years. We have five children, two college educated, one in irollege and two still in high school. 
"I operate a general insurance agency and the people in Grand Rapids have been very good to us through the yean. We have a beautiful home, a cottage and all that goes mth it. Seems very strange, looking back that all this could happen to cme of the poorest and dumbest of the Class of '30. 
"I keep quite active uith my work, tennis, skiing and boating. They say it keeps you )*oung, and I have to last a few years longer until the last The concern and solicitude that the '29crs found 
here and appreciate more mth pasnng ;fean wtemM 
to be what some of the present students resent. 
Being as close to it as I am and witncsang ndiat 
appears to be in process of being lost is moat 
disturbing. 
We, as wefl as Rev. LOUIS THORNTON, had 
the pleasure of a vbit from JOE LENIHAN mho 
takes time to stop by when he can. Joe looks 
trim and enjoys his modified responabilities mth 
Fromm and Sichell. He has more time for himsdf 
and uses some of it for his association with Amott 
Baker and Co., stock broken, 150 Broadway. He 
is sincerely interested in the goal of an excellent 
attendance at the 40th Class Reunion in '69. Its 
measure of success resides in your attendance. It 
is not loo early to make >*Dur plans to participate. 
THAD HEINLEIN was a Campus viator in late February. He was cnroute back to Erie, Pau from Chicago where his daughter Joan is n medical technician at Passai^int Hosp. Joan was a classmate of GENE GALDABINFs daughter at Dayton U. Daughter Nancy teaches nursing at Children's Hosp., Boston and Kathy is a freshman at Marymount Col., Tarrytown, NY. Thad is sttU a distributor for Butler ^fetal Building. He has two salesmen on his staff who call on industrial, conmiercial, school and amusement-type accounts. 
ones get through school, and on their own. 
''If you could ask for a note from anyone in our old Class, it would be deeply apprcoated. Jfope to see you soon." 
Class members vrill be very sorry to leam of the death Feb. 20 of BOB HELLRUNG'S ^ther. H e will be remembered in prayers. 
ART DORWIN gives us an idea of how to live these days: 
**Thanks for your letter. Nothing important in neH*s to pass on except that Katie and I still pursue the sport of snow skiing and I dare you to find one other from our Class. We spent three weeks of January and February In Europe—St. Anton, Austria, and Zermatt, Switzerland—to compare their slopes with those of Colorado. Upon our return we enjoyed five fabulous days at Aspen. I can't brag about my golf game, but my wife started late at it, and is a regular runner-up for club champion at Boulder. If any of the '30ers should get to Boulder I'll challenge them. Her game, not mine, against theirs. 
"I know this arrangement, Colorado vs Wsconnn, has you wondering. I share the presidency of a bank here in Aflnocqua and try, quite unsuccess­fully, to live in two states—1200 miles to commute —^and this has been going on for 15 years. I plan to fiy out of Milwaukee next Saturday for Denver, and know there is some spring skiing left in the high country along the continental divide. Tried to phone GEORGE WINKLER pasdng through New Yoric, but couldn't make a connection. Good luck on this promotion." 
ED DEMPSEY was at ND for the Junior Parents Weekend and I was delighted to have a chat unth Mrs. Dempsey, their son, and Ed. An earlier letter from Ed detailed some of the things he has been doing: 
"I've been woridng for Union Carbide Corp. ever since graduation. &fy particular sphere of actmty is distribution, and that's a big job in an organization the size of ours. 
"I'm in St. Louis for the Annual Meeting of the Private Truck Council of America, which I've been honored to serve as president for the last two yean. 
**We've made a clean su'cep at ND. We have just two boys. Peter graduated in '62 as a pre med. Went to St. Louis U. for med. and Is now doing research at National Institute of Health in Bethesda. 
"Johnny is a junior at ND and hopes to go into Law—when General Hershcy lets him. Call it a paradox or whatever you want, but my wife. Celeste, went to XGchlgan State. You can bet we have some fun on 'that certain day* each fall. See you soon." 
FRANK "M(X)N" EATON dropped ns a Sne from Afiluaukec: 
"I haven't much in the line of news odier tfiaa Mary and I try to make all the local N D Club functions. There is not a great ntunber of N D men of my vintage in the area but usually find someone to reminisce mth. 
"Jim, our oldest son, is a freshman in tfarquette Law School after doing his undergraduate wink at St. Norbert's. Richard, the younger member of the family, is a freshman at Whitewater State U. 
diairman of the preparatory commisdon on com­munication for the Lafayette diocese. This com­nusnon and coordinating committee of 35 people have expended themselves in promu^ting features of Vatican U decrees. Sons Mike and Bob are sophmnores at ND, three boys are attending St. FuiPs, a Christbn Brothers prep school at Coving­ton, La. Tu'o children are at home and three are married. There are ten grandchildren, perhaps 11 when you read this. 
JIM CURRY's new address is Shadblow Hill Rd., Ridgefield, Conn. GERAD BILL now lives at 2200 EI Cajon Blvd., San Diego. STEVE DURBIN's Alumni mail goes to Texas Distributors Inc. 2381 Naglc St., Dallas; JOE FRIEL's to 375 Pink Ave., NY. 
HUGH J. MaL\NIG.\L*s address is 5780 Sunset Dr., Suite 5, So. Aliami, Fla. DAX CONLEY has moved from Seattle to 7540-180th Ave. NE, Redmond, Wash. EDWARD C. KRICK now resides at 3513 Sk>rroft, Minneapolis. 
MIKE McGEOGHEG.AN has moved from Mao-land to 1235 Olive Rd., Homewood, III. NORMAN HARTZER's new address is 9 Surrey La., Atlicr­ton, Calif. From the Alumni Office we have a brief note that JOSEPH SULLIVAN is iU and hospitalized recently. 
"X hope the good Lord will allow me to attend our 40th Reunion in 1970. Docs anyone ever hear from ED ARTHUR and also that Cleveland demon, SAM SILVESTRO? This is about the extent of my contribution. Best wishes." 
•A N CANNON wrote us some details about Jack's funeral: 
^'Father RAY LOTTEN was one of the five priests who helped celebrate the Mass for brother Jack Nov. 12, 1%7. SPIKE McADAIkIS, JACK ELDER and "MOOSE" KRAUSE were here In Columbus at that time. Thanks to Father Wilson, Father Jo>*cc and to all that mailed notes to me and the family. 
"JOE RYAN Sr is doing very wtll in law. He has his son JOE RYAN Jr '58 practicing with him. They have their offices at 547 £. Broad St., Columbus. 
**I am in the real estate business and operate the Columbus Nursing Homes Inc. We take care of 125 patients under Medicare. I enjoy this work very much. BILL BRESENHANN is with Beth­lehem Steel Legal Dept. 
"Gertrude Conroy (BERNIE CONROY's wfc). New Kensington, Pa., visited us for one tvholc week. We had a wonderful time. HONIE "HoUev" SMITH PELHAKf, my brother-in-law, has ' a daughter at St. Mary's. BERNIE CONROY's son. Father Don Conroy, is under Bishop Connare in Grccnsberry, Pa. doing a wonderful job." 
GERALD KfcKAY from Minneapolis took time out from the hamburger business to UTite a fc^v lines: 
**Thanks for your note. As for neu3 JACK "DUANE" YELLAND and I have not much to offer for the Class of '30. We are very much alone in this area. 
**Jack Yelland has been with Thorpe Realty for many years, selling homes. They have two lovely dat^hters, one who has been accepted at St. Mary's of ND. Jack is a director of the Twin City ND Club. 
"After 26 years with National Cash Register Co., I have since 1961 acquired two McDonald Ham­burger franchises in St. Paul. Both are doing nicely. I employ about 80 people and enjoy working with the young men. 
**Fotur daughters and one boy. John has applied at ND and is on a waiting list. The oldest daughter is asst. to the dean at St. Teresa's Col., Winona. One attends the U. of Dublin in Dublin, an English major, one at U. of &I. and one in high school." 
T. JOHN FOLKS JR has been elected board chairman and chief executive officer of the Nassau Suffolk Lumber and Supply Corp. 
JAMES W. SULLIVAN has been awarded the "Distinguished Citizen Award" for 1968 by the Royal Oak (Michigan) Chamber of Commerce. He is being honored for his many years of involve­ment in the civic affairs of Royal Oak. 
JOHN NANOVIC visited here for the Junior Parents Weekend. His son is a junior in residence but, through accelerated course schedules, he will be graduating in three years. 
BO RICHARDS sent us a very kmd note recently from Kansas City and wanted to be remembered to aU the 1930 Class. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

DIUGENT DIPLOMAT IN DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA 
T
ANZANIA, Denmark and South Africa are exotic, far-off places that most of lis will never see but William Duggan '38, MA '39 knows them well. These are some of the locations to which he has been assigned in his 23 years of foreign service. 
"Red" Duggan was a political science major who worked his way through ND with an assortment of odd jobs. One was being secretary to Waldemar Gurian, the famous political scientist who was forced to flee the Nazi regime and who later began Notre Dame's 
Review of Politics. 
The three years he spent with Gurian enriched Red's education fantastically. "I learned the philosophical back­ground rather than the mere mechanics of political science," he points out. "I became acquainted with the masters of political thought rather than the mere pedants in that field." 
With Gurian's gifts and two degrees. Red Duggan left ND and joined the foreign service where he has been ever since. Currently he labors as American Consul General in Durban, South Africa where he has consular responsi­bility for the province of Natal, in­
 DOYLE 
1567 RIDGE AVE.. AFT. 308 EVANSTON, ILL. G0201 

1931 
JAMES T. 
Again it is time to send a bit of news to the Class of 1931. The March-April ALUMNUS carries the tear-out postcard for you to use in sending news to \-our Class secretary. So far the only one to arrive iias been from LEO KLETZLY who is "back on the job" after a severe heart attack last August. He now has four grandchildren and one daughter, a member of the Franciscan order. He particularly asks to be remembered to all his classmates. 
CARL CRONIN has been elected to the Football HaU of Fame in Canada. F. X. MURPHY JR sent 
1932 
FLORENCE J. McCARTHY 
6 RIVER RD. SCARSDALE, N.Y. 10383 

In my last column I told of the great Christmas present I got—a newsy letter from BILL POWER. Well, this spring I got a lot of Easter eggs from our classmates. 
Rev. JOHN H. "HACK" WILSON CSC sent along the following: "You may have already heard this, but to be on the safe side, I thought I'd drop vou a note to tell you of the death, March 19 in Chicago, of JOEL OSTRANDER. Although he liad been in bad health for some time and suffered a lot, he never lost his alertness, his good spirits and his sense of hiunor. He died in the home in uliicli he had been bom and his widow, six children (another child died sometime ago) and his 95-ycar^)ld father were with him. A priest-friend, formerly an assistant in Joe's parish, said the Mass and gave a most eloquent sermon. I drove in for the funeral, which was quite laige, and said the prayers at the cemetery. Joe was a great little guy and did a world of good for his family, the Church and among his many friends. He will be missed—may he rest in peace." 
"P.\UL ©"TOOLE's (married to my aster, Harriet, St. Mary's '33) son was ordained last spring and is now an asst. at St. James parish, Maywood, lU. 
"JACK WmXIFF' s son, Pha, a sophomore, is a star and leading scorer on the hockey club (which will become a varsity team next year when the new Athletic and Convocation Center is opened) and a prime prospect for the defendve backficU next fall. Another son, back from Viet­nam, hopes to return to ND in September. And still another son, a senior in high school, may wind 
ALUMNUS AAAY 1968 JUNE 
ISSisasss Diiffffan -3St 
eluding Zululand. His job involves 
diplomatic duties that have ranged 
from entertainment of big-wig American 
visitors to official attendance at the 
funeral of Nobel Peace Prize winner 
Albert Luthuli. Protection of American 
nationals and their interests falls within 
his ken. 
Perhaps the thing which makes this 
all most interesting is Red Duggan's 

a note at Christmas and then later took time to telephone me. His wife, who has been quite ID for some time, is now bed-ridden. Among local classmates remarrying are RAY COLLINS and BERT METZGER. JOHN J. KUHN sold hb interest in Star Broadcasting Inc. and Is now a special consultant mth Central Hudson Gas and Electric Co. 
Word has been received of the passing of JOHN 

R. BLANDA and iURTI N W. DOWNEY. Please remember them in your prayers. JOHN F. WIDER has been appointed superintendent of the tram-mission div. of Detroit Edison Co. ALBERT J. TOUHY has been appointed director of security by the Penn Central R.R. BILL SULLIVAN is 
up here although he has had offers of football scholarships from Nebraska, Navy and several other schools. 
"I ran into FRANK MARLEY on Campos recently. He and his wife, who have a junior at St. Mary's, were here for the Junior Barents Weekend. 
"Among '32er3 (in addition to Jack Wittliff) who currenUy have sons at ND are VINCE CAVANAUGH, ED HART, ED KOLSKI and RAY GIEGER. I'm sure there are others. 
**A5 I'm finishing this, there comes the tiai^ news from Atbnta of PAUL HALLINAN's death. We of the class of '32 who were here for oar 35th Reunion last June will treasure memories ol the major part Paul played in that event, as w«fl as of his total friendliness and his complete cotn­mitment to the causes which concerned him so much, the welfare of the Church, the littirgr, civil rights and so on. We've all lost a good friend in Paul and the Church has k»t a wise sod courageous leader." 
HERB GIORGIO reported that JIM McGOLD-RICK '35 buried his father recently in Phila­delphia and mortician ARCH DONOHUE handled the arrangements. Herb also saw GENE CON­NELLY at his 23rd street resUurant in Man­hattan (adv.). Gene told him his wife Dototlqr was in an auto accident but will be all right. 
Next, a long letter from LEN CONDON who heard that GEORGE BENTLEY RYAN was in Chicago recendy and had a great visit with BOB JOYCE '33. Len says he and his iamilr get to ND for one or two games each year and nsuallr run into CLEM THEISEN. Len's son TIM gnd­uated from ND in '63, commerce, went oo to Wisconsin for a law degree, and married Joaa Ward bom Marquette whose lather is ND. Lea 
total blindnesi. He has been blind for ax of his diplomatic yean. Thougji the loss of his si^t and the hoqrit^ization \iUch ensued .prevented hU appinnt­ment as Ambaaador of Tanzania, he considers that bis blindness does, not materially impair bis work. 
The government obviously agrees. He has since bdd the post of African Area Specialist on the Department of State's policy planning council and bis present job. 
Of his current post be says, "My asngnment here would ordinarily be for a period of about four yearsj but foreign service officers are aKrays subject to transfer—perpetual gypnes. Naturally, an assignment to South Africa is a fascinating experience since the country is complex, controversial, beautiful and increasingly important." 
Red Duggan approaches his woric inth great enthusiasm and speaks of it lovingly. He advises that mote people should consider foreign service as a career. "As in all government employ­ment, one cannot expect to become a millionaire, but one has. a full and exciting life." 
now living in Sarasota, Fb . 
I had the pleasant surprise ox nunung into TOM UONAHAN. Us wife Blair and her btber at the La Salle Hotel in eaiir April. AD looted verr well. Tom reports that "SFKE " SUL­LIVAN'S wife Therese has been under the weather and 1 hope that she has lecovciej by tlus time.;' AUSTIN BOYLE was among the "Slen who showed up at the Monahan bam after the lUinats-' ND same along with Sullivan. Tom sud there were ahout 150 who attended, bat most were from,' his son's class. 
News has been on the slim ade the past seveial' months. Flease be sure to send the ALCwnis hnett with notes regulariy-
Jr graduated Crum St. Mary's, Winona, Minn., and married a home town girl in Rockfoid. Len himself married a St. Mary's gal, Miriam Crowe. 
Then came a note from Or. WILLARO J. "WHtTET' CROXALL who ttves in Elkhart. He sajs "Although I am close to ND, it seems that I miss aO the Reunions, U y travel schedule has been heavy, partinilarly abroad. At present I am vice­prcs., research div., process industries group. Miles Labontofies Inc. (How does he get all that on a paiqxnt?) This Easter we had all our bnuly hone,' the two boys, three daughters, the sons and danghters-in-hw and 11 grandchildren. (No wonder he goes abroad.) I get to the Canvos oaee in a while—mostly the chenustry dept." 
And finaOr a word about RAY GEIGER. We hear he has been dected to a two-year term as pres. of the Aaociated Indnstries a( Maine, a gnn ^ that comprises all the major industries. He rep­resents them in Augusta in connection with the' vaiious bits of le^dation that ate proeesied by , the state governing bodies. I suppose that's why we never hear ba n him anymore. That's all lor now and as Dean Martin says "Keep thoM lettea and post caids coamig." 
JOHN A. HOYT, JK. 

109 9 ft (yCONl  GnxESPiEftofCasscm.  
Xvd  v  Ml  MADISON  AVE.  
NEW YOKK. N.Y.  10017  

We recently leaned with deep regret the deadis tt two meidben of o v Cba, not previomly tepocted here or thno ^ 4 e Ahnnni Ofice. 
Dr. GEfHIGE W. HABIUSON of AiUand, Wis. dMd bKk in September of 19C0 and KALPH L. IfOKIUSON ol Tnfan ified JmK I. 196t. Masses tor bodi were sud on the Campus April 6. 
LAIKY SEXTON ol Intfianapolh. just back 

from a South American tour, reports he has been 
in touch with BERXIE LEXAHAN in Vinccnnes 
and BOB LEWIS in Frankfort and FRED 
ZIELTOX. 
Rev. CHARLES E. SHEEDY CSC, dean of arts 

and letters, is back at his desk after surgery at the 
Mayo Clinic and an uncomfortable battle with the 
**flu." 
Dr. JIM D.ANEirV^, our Class representative on 

the Campus, is busily engaged in programming 
our June 7-9 weekend. 
JACK O'SHAUGHNESSY wrote recently that he and Father Shccdy had visited whUc Father \vas in Chicago. 
At the NIT basketball tournament in New Yorfc, wc saw BILL LYNCH, MARTY LINSKEY, GEORGE ROHRS and .ANDY BOTTL Plans were made to get together for UND Nite in April to welcome Ara Parseghian, the guest speaker. 
PETE CONNOLLY is planning a European trip this summer. He will be out from Rochester for the Reunion and plans to fly out the foIIow^ng weekend, stopping initially in Ireland to \-isit the Guinness family and other relatives. 
Our classmate EDW.ARD V^'ZR.AL was shot and killed in his law office by a crazed client May 9. Big Ed had written that he would attend our Re­union and had invited NICK LUKATS to be with him. May God grant rest to the great soul of one of the "Fighting Irish"! 
This is my farewell column. For some years it has been my privilege to ser\-c as Class secretary. It has been a rewarding experience. I shall be ever grateful to those who contributed so generously of their time and talents. Your Class column is a singular means of keeping in touch with the University and members of your Class—Never let cither of tlicm down. 
EDWARD F. M.\NSFIELD 523 \\\ HILLSDALE SAN iL\TEO, CAL. 94403 

1934 
WILLIAM F. RYAN 
1620 E. WASHINGTON AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 

1935 
Xlessagcs from the Class arc scanty again for this issue. It seemed that I would have to submit a blank until a few da>-s ago when a surprise call came from JOE KNAPP, from Sidney, N^. Joe talked to me for at least a half hour (compliments of Bobby Kennedy) and after almost 33 years it sure was nice to hear from him. Joe has eight children and his oldest son is graduating from ND this year and planning to attend law school. I didn't get a rundown on the rest of his children. Joe explained he hasn't attended any Reunions since graduating for eight reasons. Besides owning his own in-plant feeding business he is county cliairman of the Democratic Party and will be a delegate to the national convention. 
Joe mentioned that JOHN WACKS is with the FBI in Washington, DC and that he sees JERRY MOLINARI often. Jerry b city clerk in his home town of Onconta. 
At long last two officers of the Class came forth. TOM OWEN wrote from Chattanooga to let us know that he is still in the fold. He is president of the Chattanooga Bic>*clc Club, and really must be an avid bic\'clist, since he sa>*s he is planning to ride 100 miles on one journey sometime this summen The first and only comment regarding the possible Purdue game get-together came from ED VAN HUISSELING. He and his wife Til arc planning to attend the game. However, Ed, unless wc have some more response, or indications from the Class or some intimation from the fellows that a quorum will be here, there just may not be any get-together on an organized basis. 
The Alumni Office reports that TOM HII-S recently assumed the position of sports editor for tlic Star-News newspapers, Wilmington, N.C. 
A year ago, when I was "railroaded" into accepting the job of secretary- on a temporary basis, I listed names of '35ers from whom ^vc hoped to obtain some news. The idea was a dud, but I am going to try again. How about it NORB HART, PAT FISHER, P.AUL GUAR.XIERI, RAY KE.\TING, GENE O'REILLY, GEORGE DEM­ETRIO, PAT LYNCH and R.AY OAKES? 
Since Tom Owen and Ed Van Huisscltng broke the ice, how about some information from the other Class oflSceis? Remember, the next Reunion is only two years auay and you can be replaced! 
The **yella'* cards enclosed with the last issue arc still usable and acceptable—in fact, "yclla" is my favorite color. 
R.AY M.ARGRETT called to chat recently, and it was sure nice to talk to him, whom I haven't seen for years. He has a daughter Peggy in high school, a son. Bob, w*ho is married and teaching in Wisconsin, where he is also getting his PhD, and his son, Bill, is in graduate school at Xavier in Cincinnati- Ray is living at 483 Lake View Park, Rochester, N^ . 
I hit the jackpot in seeing a couple of class­mates on the same day recently. BILL MILLER was in South Bend to talk before the law class, and we were able to get in a game of golf with LEE FL.\TLEY. Bill \vas also drafted by the local politicians to speak before a breakfast meeting and a press conference. Bill pla>*s a mean game of golf, and he certainly is no slouch in bridge, cither. I can attest to both. 
FR.ANK MAGUIRE, now Kwng in Heidelberg, Germany, also popped up on the same day, but wc were unable to get together to make it a four­some. Frank is general mgr. of all John Deere plants in Europe, but he manages to get badt to South Bend several times a year. 
 PALKOVIC 
301 MECH.ANIC ST. 
ORANGE, N.J. 07050 

1936 
LARRY 
Fellow Alumni will grieve to Icam of KEN STILLEY's untimely passing. Ken was a talent scout for the Pittsburgh Stcclcrs and other pro football teams and former mayor of Clairton, Pa., died Kfarch 23 of a heart attack. He was on a scouting trip to North Carolina when he was stricken with what appeared to be a vims infection. 
He coached in high schools after graduation and later returned to ND as line coach under HUGH DEVORE. He also assisted coaching staffs at St. Bonaventurc and Detroit U. He is survived by his wife Vera, 1216 Bickerton Drive, Clairton, Pa. 
JOSEPH P. FOX has been named pres. and chief executive officer of Champion Products Inc. mfrs. of screen printed athletic, physical education and campus wear for schools and colleges. 
TO M AD.AMSON from E\-anston, III. writes that he is now a proud grandfather and doesn't feci a bit older. Maybe he hasn't as yet reached 50??? He says he can't figure out zvhy our classmates don't co-operate and send more ncu*s. Get the hint, fellows? I have been harping about news most every time I have written my news to Mr. Thurin. So once again you guys get busy and write!!! 
Tom is now executive trditor of Dairy and Ice Cream Field magazine, a trade journal of the dairy industry*. Has been in the cow business 32 years but has spent most of his time in public relations work shooting the bull. Write again soon, Tom, as it was nice hearing from you. 
Now to get on with GEORGE WENTTVORTH's letter written shortly before Christmas: ''Christmas is close at hand, and that means another year has rolled by. It has been a fine year for us with no sickness. I imagine wc must be slowing down but not enough to notice it. Wc don't talk about our age anymore, but just how wie feel. My birthday is coming up shortly, and that, by the way, is easy for all to remember—12/12/12. Hard to tell anyone that I can remember when the electric lights were put in our house. 
" I could write a book on events in my life, but who would read it? We have lived in the most wonderful period in historv*, just think of the changes, exciting events, wonderful inventions, abundance of everything. Of course there is the other side, and we all have the freedom of mind to make decisions." 
Then Geo. relates about his sons. **Jim is in his third year with Metropolitan Insurance in Bangor, Me., likes his work and doing well. Son Jim in his second year at Farmington State Col. and doing well. Joe is a junior in high school and docs well in his studies. 
•*Mildrcd and I have been well throughout the year. Ma gets an occasional cold but not bad enough to keep her away from school. Keeping well is another great interest of mine and I Iiavc not missed a day of school since 1946 bcrcausc of sickness. I miss school if the conditions arc right, such as the World Series. I really enjoyed the games, and it so happened the ND Club of Greater Boston was having a reunion on Thursday evening after the 6th game where I met many old friends I had not seen since 1936. 
"Fly fishing was not as good as usual this year, and we think it was because of the great amount of feed caused by the wet season. I fished a lot and had some wonderful times. Got the wife to go with me many a time and finally got licr to Iiandle her own rod. Nearly every Sept. evening would find us at our favorite pnnd. 
"Family spent a week during the summer at the rainbow sporting camps which belong to the Great Northern Paper Co. The company felt that their staff needed a break after a seven-day week stretch for three months so wc were glad to go in and look after things. On dur trips into the woods wc saw lots of game, and once while canoeing raced a bull moose for a small stream where wc had our car parked. Wc got to the stream first, that is a story in itself." 
George opened up basketball.season at the time this letter was written and since wc are so wrapped up in the game, we look forward to seeing what this first game will bring forth. "Last year was 17-3. Lost most of my squad but have great hopes for a group of sophomores. Have not lost a home game for 5 years and now starting the 6th. Have won 103 out of 109 in the bst 5 years. Should be satisfied but find myself as fired up as years ago." 
Geo. concludes that he hopes this letter "finds you and your families happy and may our com­bined prayers be answered with a solution to the Vietnam and many of our inlenial problems." 
Mi 
I EO A. SANTIXI '40 divides his time •• between two complementar)- but demanding careers. As executive vice-president of Santini Brothers Inc.. international "movers" headquartered in NYC, he directs a business organiza­jtion that operates around the globe. [As commanding officer of tlie -Army jReser\-e's 353rd Civil Affair .-Vrea, 
Colonel Santini leads 12 units com­prised of 3000 officers and enlisted re­'seri-ists in the northeast part of the nation. 
At Santini Brothers, his responsibili­ties range from long-range planning, fleet purchasing and maintenance To construction, operations, insurance and high level sales. His growing nation­wide firm also has international of­fices. Santini's father was one of the seven original Santini brothers who left the Tuscan Hills of Italy in the late 1890s to come to .•\merica. Pooling their resources, they went into the moving business with a horse-drawn wagon serving as their first van and office. 
Today, more than 60 years later, Santini Brothers Inc. does the largest annual sales volume in the United Van Lines chain. Last year the corporation chalked up gross sales in e.\ccss of $12 million. 
Santini began his military career in 1941 as an enlisted man. He ser\'ed in the North African and Italian cam­paigns and was separated in 1946 as a major. The US Army rcsen-e unit he has commanded since June of 1966 is one of only three such headquarters in the Civil Affairs Reser\-e structure. It is geared for both hot and cold war missions aimed at re-establishing and i stabilizing governments in war-ravaged, i underdeveloped or disaster-stricken na­tions. 
"The basic Civil Affairs responsibili­ty," Santini relates, "is the administra­tion of provisional government centering 
ALUMNUS AAAY 1968 JUNE 

1937 
JOSEPH P. QUINN programs at the state-owned collcses and uni­
P.O. BOX 27J, LAKE LENAPE 

versities. Vincc has a son enrolled at ND, engi­ANDOVER, N.J. 07821 
neering, come this September. DICK DELANEY is the other educator having been appointed to a Travelers and educators make the news this time. 
si.x-ycar term to the state board of public instruc­JERRY CLAEYS, chairman, etc. of Class Re­tion by the Governor of Iowa. So these two '37 unions, parties, arrangements and deals, met the men have their hands full as many of you probably secretary in NY prior to take-off for Europe on have with local boards of education, school taxes an 18-day tour of candy factories and association and tuition to many places. Dick is vice-pres. of meetings. (IRS please note). Advised us that the Midwest Biscuit Co., Burlington, very active in Alumni Office took all our surplus funds from the community affairs and a perfect host (secy, knows Reunion so we arc broke again. KARL KING from experience). DICK JR Ls an ND grad also, tried to avoid the "extra** bills that kept being P.ARKER SULLIV.^X has been appointed di­submitted but wc lost. Jerry and I met BILL rector and prcs. of General Telephone of Cali­FALLON at the U.\D nite at the Waldorf. Also, fornia. Then they also tossed ir. a directorship to JIM McDEVITT '35. JI.M SHIELS '35 and the Santa Monica Bank. Xow we know whom to FRANK BRIGHT '38. GORDON MURPHY is elect as the next Class treasurer. The bank will making a trip from the west coast to Tahiti, have it made if Parker can land the Schw*artz Lee New Zealand, Australia, Japan and back to work Hardware acct. and the LOU PURCELL acct. for at the Crocker-Citizens Natl. Bank in San the bank. 
Francisco where he is vice-pres. and mgr. Hc*s JOHN M.ARB.ACH has been appointed superior still one of the bachelors of our Class. 
court judge in XY by Rockv and will serve in the 
TIic educators making the news arc VINCE Westchester area. Rev. EDWI.V C. B.\UER CSC, McCOLA, higher education associate in the Pa. now stationed in SB, celebrated his 25th anni­dvpt. of public instruction, evaluating new degree versary of ordination in March. Wc ask that you 
//NG MAN MAKES IT IN THE tMUJARY 
.iround two probable assignments: aid­ing in the government of a friendly or allied nation when that country is in need or acting as the government of an occupied nation until the government is restored to the nation's oivn people." 
During peacetime Civil Affairs helps maintain freedom and provides knowl­edge and know-how needed by nations to help themselves. The men in Civil Affairs reserve units are in a cross-section of professions which lend them­selves to such tasks — law, finance, engineering, medicine, etc. 
Santini, who was recently nominated for the rank of brigadier general, conducts an institute at universities throughout the country to teach the Civil Affairs Mission. In this program, which lasts two weeks, the reser\-ist de­velops a deeper understanding of the historical and cultural background of various areas of the world. 
What is required in combining suc­cessful military and civilian careers? "It means that you don't work a normal 40-hour week," answers Santini. "In­stead, after finishing a day at the office, you often change hats and spend hours working for the .Army. Even the purely administrative tasks of run­ning a headquarters like the 353rd are tremendous. Staff meetings, inspections, planning conferences, visits to higher headquarters, liaison with other units and public relations require much more time than the average citizen suspects." 
A typical day for Santini may involve an early morning trip to the US.'\R Center for a planning conference with administrative personnel, then back to Santini Brothers for a day in the office and its responsibilities, including sev­eral phone calls for a conference with the imit staff, followed by a regular training session that lasts until 10:30 pm, followed by a meeting with repre­sentatives of subordinate units, making it well past midnight when he gets home. 
Santini's civilian skill often is cm-ployed on military requirements and vice versa. For example, when the 353rd was recently directed to move from mid-Manhattan to the Bronx, Santini engineered the movement of the 150-man headquarters, including all equipment. The operation was com­pleted in one day, a significant feat considering the unit had equipment and personnel on almost all floors of the 13­story center in Manhattan and N\'C traffic is often the busiest in the world. 
remember in your prayers: GEORGE P. LASE, 
RALPH E. HRUSK.A, the mother of TOM 
WHITE and the father of Gordon Murphy. 
West Coast note: JOE O'NEILL is a joint 

owner of the Oakland Clippers of the new soccer 
group and is trying hard not to lose too much 
oil money on soccer. Just learned that the U. 
has let down the admission bars as Kevin, son 
No. 1, has been accepted for September classes. 
So, if you see the secy, on the l&-yd. line at the 
games, you will know how he made it. 
Again we acknowledge PAUL FOLEY making 

Time mag. Paul, just keep off the cover. Keep 
the secy, informed—^remember the promises made 
at Retmion. . . 
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 1139 WESTERN AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 4GG23 

EDITOR'S NOTE: We goofed! Burnie's column teas ivritten with tke understanding that it zvotdd appear before the Reunion. The ALUMNUS pub~ lication schedule, however, was shifted so this issue would be mailed mid June. Thus, the incoherency. Our apologies to you and Burnie. 
Flash! CHUCK SWEENEY, our Class and classy 

president sufTered a heart attack April 21 and Is 
recuperating at South Bend*s Memorial Hos. Send 
messages there, and prayers up\%'ards for his speedy 
recovery. 
Same day I heard about Chuck I received a 

letter from LEON.ARD TOBIN with full registra­
tion payment saying he «>^i5 going to make his first 
Reunion despite his daughter graduating and get­
ting married, his son Jay, a N D freshman, sailing 
for Europe for a second year of studies and his 
real estate in its busiest season because **The recent 
ALUSINUS really tugged at my heart strings in 
saying that many of us will not be around for 
another Reunion." Guess Chuck was tr>ing to em­
phasize my point. 
TOM BOND sent his check in sa>ing be would try to make it all the way from 1243 S. Main St. Walnut, Calif, despite imminent surgery and a June graduation. BOB WHITECOTTON sent his ten bucks in \ia JOHNNY O'CONNORS even though our mailing missed him. ERNIE KLING, engineer at Cape Kennedy. Htints other *38 acro's to come—TOMMY MAHER from "Baaston," ED KAVANAUGH, BOB RU.MPF, ED TOBLV, BERNIE PETERSON, JIM AUGEE, TOM KELLEY, FRANK MEYER, and JOHN PINAS. So do we! 
At press time 91 had sent in their pre-re^tration $10—though 114 had said they would come. 25 sent in regrets including JIM BURGESS from EI Paso who will be at an institute at that time. Jim wants anyone in his area to stop in, said VIC BECK did last year. 
Among those coming a long way are BUNNIE McCORMICK from CaUfomia, TEX HAGG.AR, Dr. VINC SHERROD and JOHN FOORE from Texas, LARRY DILLO.N, from Florida, RIGGIE DI BRIENZA, CLARK REYNOLDS. ED CON­DON, AL KOZELOVE, BILL MURPHY. ED UNL\CKE, CHUCK BEASLEY, TONY SULE­SKI, FRANK AL\Y. JOE DINEEN, BILL MURPHY, JOE TIMMERMAN, PHIL GAL­LETTA and DICK SCANNEL from New York way, XLARTIN HUSING from Colorado, NED FISHWICK and CHUCK MORRISON from Vir­ginia, and probably some others that skip my mind for the moment who will let me know about it, when they get here. I'll be glad to apologize to any of you in person—if tliat will only get you here. 
So drop everything and send your ten spot in this minute! P-S. Msgr. TO.VY GOMES of Our Lady of Angels rectory. Fall River, Mass. has three graduation speeches preventing him from coming but sent in ten dollars anyhow to aid the reminisdng. How about that! 
1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 1804 GREENWOOD DR. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 

Deadlines are deadly . . . roll around before you can catch your breath .. . and Thurin's on our back again! There's no**joie dc vivrc" here at 1801 Greenu-ood .. . Pony express detoured or scratched . , . how about digging up the last issue and Jotting dowa a few "somethins" for yc old secretary? 
Through the Alumni office .. . Dr. STANLEY 

R. SHEERAN was promoted to vice-pres. for operations of Tenneco Chemicals Inc. and P.AUL 
F. KLUDING, the old Norwalk, Ohio mathe­matician, was elected pres. of Rock Island Motor Transit Co. He had been general mgr. since December, 1965. Congrats to both! 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
Recent intra-city moves of the follow '39crs: 

MAX BURNELL, CHARLES "CHUCK" EXGLE­
HART, Dr. HENRY F. JOHANTGEN, LOUIS 
SOMERS, RICHARD AVALCH. New address will 
be furnished on request! For you who care, the 
following *39crs have skipped to: Avon Lane, 
Greenwich, Conn. 06830 (DICK ANTON); 3829 
Leland, LouisvUIe. Ky. 40207 (THOMAS AR­
MEL); 3153 Los Coyotes Blvd., Long Beach, 
Calif. 90808 (VINCE DUGGAN); 4411 Intra-
coastal Dr.. Delray Beach, Fla. 33444 (RICHARD 
HUISKING); 6 Aster Dr., Tridclphia, W. Va. 
26059 (FREDERICK B. GOVERN); 121 Laurel 
Rd,. Mountain Lakes, NJ 07046 (CHARLES F. 
RODGERS); 7402 Shadwell Lane, Prospect, Ky. 
40059 (RAY SCHLECK); 1643 Santa Anita Dr., 
Apt. D, San Diego, Calif. 92111 (ED TOBIN). 
Iilore re: Armcl .. . chanced upon Tom and 

lovely Mrs. in CamcHa Room, Drake, Chicago, 
and learned of his move to Louisville after 26 
years with Glidden Co. During Junior Parents 
Weekend at ND March 29-31, DAVE MESKILL, 
JOHN E. "BLACK JACK" SULLIVAN, JOHN 
"SPIKE" SIEGEL and yours truly and wives 
convened at Morris Inn—these are tentative first 
registrants for our 30th in June, 1969. 
A fall "Reunion Prelim" will be Sept. 28— 

Purdue at ND. Jot the date as a reminder when 
you order your *68 tbc Details will be announced 
later. 
Just at deadline time I received a beautiful yellow card from PETE SANDROCK who %vas getting ready to go to Columbia to see Pete Jr graduate and be commissioned as an ensign. He was honored with the Distinguished Midshipman Award and was on the dean's list and has been assigned to the USS Frank Knox for duty in Vietnam. Pete Sr is chairman of the liturgy com­mittee on the parish council and has been head usher for the past eight years. He has also been pres. and sec. of the ND Club in Portland, Ore. and is precinct committeeman for the Democrats. He still bclie\'es in God, Country and ND and Rev. Charles Doremus, prefect at Sorin begin­ning our junior year. 
In closing, I know all of you join me in express­ing s>-mpathy to Mrs. EDWIN G. O'CONNOR. I'm sure many of us enjoyed the fruits of his talents. 
1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 233 W. CENTRAL A\^. 
LOMBARD, ILL. 6014S 

Fortunately this is one of our better issues, thanks to a few members of the Class who have decided to help. Now if some of you more quiet ones will respond we can build up to a great Reunion In '70. 
TOM MONAHAN has been elected pres. of Seais Bank & Trust Co. Some of his friends call him "Ladders" Monahan and Tom has certainly climbed the ladder of success here In Clilcago. Congratulations, Tom, we are proud of you. 
BOB LAMBERT used one of the yellow cards to offer both an explanation and solution con­cerning my problem of news: "Guess the principal reason so few write is tliat so few contacts arc made with classmates about whom one might pass on news and most arc reluctant to ^^'ritc about themselves. 
"Tluis this is my first communication. Moved from Chicago to NY in 1957 to become nad. sales mgr. of my then company and was shortly made exec \-ice-prcs. In 1962 joined Jock Whitney in effort to restore N.Y. Herald Tribune to success as \'icc-pres., advertising director. Survived the merger and took same role with the ill-fated World Journal Tribune. Spent last summer in a leisurely search, and finally in October was ap­pointed president of Story and Kelly-Smith which is the largest newspaper rep. in the business. One of the nice rewards of my job is that it will periodically bring me to South Bend as our firm is the national representative of The South Bend Tribune." 
If Bob is coxrect about your reluctance, please overcome it and write. DON HOSINSKI reports: "The address, 53275 RIdgcwood Dr., So. Bend, Ind. 46637, is a new one, have been here about a year. Had PHIL SANDMAIER and his Dad as week-end guests last fall. 
**My daughter Donna will start teaching at N D this fall as an instructor in the language depart­ment—Spanbh. JIM DELAHANTTY has left Uni-FRANK POTENZIANA, '67, win be nurried to Cheryl Fcrree Luthy on June IStfa. WILLIAM McKENNA has been promoted to chief of die educational fihn dept. of the Detroit Public Libraiy. 
JOHN P. YOUNG has been appointed mgr. o£ Suburban Propanc's region I which includes eight districts in Maine, New Hampshire and Vennont. He has worked in the company's sales and manage­ment depts. for 18 years. In his new job he will supcnise the LP-gas sales, service, imtallation and distribution acdvities. 
Dr. JAMES E. KENNEY, an cconooucs prof. at LeMoyne CoL has been presented with the college's Bene Merenti medal for twenty years of senice. FRANK W. TOYNE has been appointed senior director of TWA's tech services dlv. PATRICK BRENNAN has announced his associa­tion in law practice with DANIEL R. GONNELL '51 in South Bend. 
JI!hf METZLER has been trying to help me with our class news and writes: "I have beoi making an effort to uncover something of interest, faow­e\'er we have very few classmates in the greater Kansas City area and there is very little to report that would be of news interest. 
**The only important neu-s item that is happen­ing to 'yours truly* is the marriage of our oldest daughter, Kathy, which c\-ent took place Feb. 24. Kathy graduated from Northwestern in June 1967 and married Lt. Robert Nolan who graduated Sxtaa West Point, also in June, 1967. They are reading near the William Air Force Base in Phoenix." Thanks for the word, Jim, and I know you will forward any news of Interest. 
On bchaU of the men of *40 I offer the con­dolences and prayers of all to J. WARREN* HELLRUNG on the recent death of his father. Let us continually remember our classmates and their loved ones who have preceded us to thdr eternal reu'ard. 
Because of the fine job of furnishing me news there will be no listing of changes of address this time. However, please remember SHORTY and his regular assignment to give )*ou reading material. Let me remind you that there is still time to make some arrangements for a small reunion at one of the football weekends if any of 70U are interested. 
JAMES F. SPELLMAX SPELLMAN & MADDEN 
342 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. I00I7 

1941 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY P.O. BOX 8640A 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60680 

1942 
J.W. BERGEN, \ice-prcs. and general mgr, of E\-ans Products Company's ralluay car div. has also been elected pres. of the US Railway Equip­ment. Co., an Evans subsidiary. 
DAN CULLINANE, now marketing and sales mgr. for the Wallace Pharmaceudcal Co. in tiie southern region, which includes appnnumately 15 states from Delaware to New Mexico, advises that he and his wonderful family find life in the south very rewarding and pleasant. Dan Jr is a basket­ball pla>-er for Tucker HS and has dreams of playing for ND. Dan's daughters, Nancy and Sheila, are making names for themselves in swim­ming circles. Not only is Dan busy developing his own children, he is pursuing his physical education interest as a hobby and conducts a clinic for athletes at a gym in his home. 
Dan advises, "One boy who started mth me at 13 took second in the New Jersey state diamp­lonships in wrestling. No. 2 in the past CMympic tryouts for lifting and was N. American champion in the 181 lb. class in lifting. We now have several college football prospects working out in an effort to gain weight and strength." Congratuladotts on this great work, Dan! This is the type of hc^ our young people can use today. 
Please remember in your prayers John T. Kiifay, father of our classmate JOHN and ARTHUR G. '43, who passed away in April. Mr. iUxfay was a former member of the iSresident's Committee and Advisory Board for the College of Commerce. 
As a closing note, we would like to remind you to please send any item of neu-s or interest. We haven't heard from many of you lately, and sure would appreciate it if you would drop us a line or two. 
at Mather prior to his retirement. Sergeant Thomp­son served in the European theater in WW U . He also served during the Korean War. 
WALTER G. IVANCEVIC has been elected nce­pres. of Associates Enterprises Co. JOSEPH P. CHAMPLEY has moved to 1642 Eton Way, Crofton, Md. 21113 and is now associated wiUi Air Cargo, Inc. 
Post-cards HARRY WRIGHT, director sports lighting division, Duro-Test Corp., North Beigen, N j that he intends to make the silver Reunion so as to check up on all the fat fellows. Harry's son Jim is a frosh footballer at ND. Harry is head foot­ball coach of the Westchester Bulls, a NY Giants farm club. VINCENT JERRY writes from Mas­sena, NY that he will be at the big 25th 
BILL LILJESTROM now lives in Stamford, Conn, and is prescndy working out of the N^'C office of Olin ^lathieson Chemical Corp. (aluminum div.) as marketing mgr., industrial products. Bill has a son in the Air Force and two daughters at Sacred Heart Academy. 
Rev. GEORGE BERNARD, CSC pkins to spend time at the Reunion and at ordinations at Aforeau Seminary same week-end. Father George's tour of duty as superior at Holy Cross Col. in DC ends this sununer when the entire Holy Cross program is shifted to ND. CLAIR LAMBERT shifted hU Lincoln-lkfercury dealership from Chicago to Crystal Lake, III. in Kfaich, 1967. Clair's six children (four sons, two daughters) range from college age to 16 months. Look for Clair at the Reunion June 7-8-9. 
1944 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD P.O. BOX 853 
GREEN BAY, ^VIS. 54305 

"lUse and Shine In '69." Let the approaching twelve months be a memorable prelude to the slver jubilee Reunion just one year hence. 
One really should continue from the lost issue of the ALUMNUS "BLACK" JOHN MURPHY s list of '44 defectors, those men who began their college worit in the fall of '40 but who for some reason or other have chosen to afHIate with another class. Added to those already reported as "missing" are JOHN AHERN, BOB CARPENTER, ART LEY, JIM WILSON, FRANK GROVES, BILL KYLE, BER-\ARD O'HORA, BILL DUNNE. •*RED" LINDEMANN, HENRY O'NEILL, JACK FALLON, CHARLES KOEGLER, WARREN ROGUE, HARRY FEENEY and LORING WEBBER. 
After ha\ing spent ten yeais in the teaching profession and ten years in the field of social work for OZZIE DOLAN the two positions have been combined into that of the Dubuque Co. school social woriter. A delightful letter was received from Ozzie. He reported on several ND men—MIKE WALSH '53 and LOU PFEILER '62 who organized a bus trip to last year's ND-Callf. game, WAYNE THURM '36 who teaches social studies in W. Dubuque, Rev. VINCENT HATT '62 who is asst. pastor at Holy Ghost parish. Rev. j m FREIBURGER '65 who teaches at Wahlert High and DAN FALEY '58 who instructs Loras Col. students in phy-cd. 
Another welcome letter w ^ received from JACK MURRAY who is president of Coiulland Line Co., the world's largest manufacturer of fishing lines. Jack reported that, in the sporting goods industry, a%nuds are made annually to companies that have contributed the most touard national leadership in a particular category. Recently his company re­c«ved the National Leadership Award for fishing tadde. At the a%vard banquet a fellow alumnus JACK &fcANDREWS, vice-prcs. of Remington Arms Co., was present to accept the National Leadership Award for guns and ammunition for his company. The two Jacks had not seen each other since campus days. Needless to say it was a great reunion. 
There was a report from JOE FIEWEGER on the Junior Parents Weekend. He feels that if a parent has only one chance to vhdt ND while his son is a student there, it should be that weekend. His quote is "Really great!!!." In addition to Helen arul Joe other '44 parents on hand w*erc Mary and JOHN HICKEY from WeUesley, Afass., Madeline and FRANK STUMPF from Richmond, Va., Betty and OMER STURM from Jasper, Ind. 
royal to become a busy manufacturers rep. Hope and Ann and BILL WALDRON from Livingston, 
 WIGGINS 

to make the 30th Class Reunion, but hopefully as NY. Two others who have sons in that class but 
5125 BRIGGS AVE. 

a drone, no more committee jobs, please." Sorry were unable to be there for the festivities were 
LA CRESCENTA, CAUF. 91214 

1943 JACK 
Don after the fine job that the local committee MIKE MALLOY and BILL O'CONNOR. Another did at our last Reunion, I think you might be &fS GEORGE E. THOMPSON JR has redred '44 seen that weekend was South Bend's JOE drafted. from the USAF at Mather AFB Calif, after 20 DILLON. It proved to be a mini-retmion for the 
TONY POTENZIANA reports that Hs son, years' service. He had served as a legal trchnirian ax of them. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

JACK McANDREWS '44 and JACK MURRAY '44 Nothing fishy about these big guns. (See '44 column.) 
1949 
LEO L. ^VESLEY 135 DRimVOOD LANE 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14617 
Late though it may be, let mc report to you on a rather successful little gatheiing of the '49 clan that took place after the ND-Michtgan State game. We gathered in 2(H O'Shaughncssy Hall just as soon as Duffy and the boys from East Lansing decided they had seen enough of Jeff Zimmerman and liiends. 24-12 and beautiful! 

For a couple of minutes, there we are: FRED CROWE, who engineered the rctmton. Rev. WILLIAM NEIDHART. CSC, Rev. PAUL WENDEL, CSC and I looking at each other and trying to make like a crotvd. All that beer and the ice is melting fast—we over-ordered! Then—Boom! Ann and PETE KERNAN and son, Pete, FRANK BROGAN and his brother TOM *48 arrived. JIM KESTING, looking prosperous and healthy (going to have DICK KOPF drop mc a card from Toledo.) FRANK FORTON, sales promotion mgr. for the Cadillac Motor Car Division, had a drink with us. BOB ROTCHFORD from Spokane was there and very dutifully signed the roster. 
JIM O'HALLORAN popped in for a few minutes—still looking like he could *'fast break" 
 THORNTON 
4400 MONSERRATE ST. 
CORAL GABLES. FLA. 33146 

1950 
JOHN W. 
Here is a wish that you all have a pleasant summer Had a nice visit with JIM SWEENEY, a patent attorney in Chicago, here in Miami for a trial. PHIL RECORD has been named the city editor of the Fort Worth Star Telegram. The Houston Chronicle recently featured a full page spread about the outstanding record achieved by the Houston Association of Credit Management under the management of WALT J. WISSEL since 1959 when there were about 300 members. He sparked it to its present membership of 715. The as­sociation b considered to be the best of its kind in the southwest. 
Prof. BOB SCHLOSSER, chairman of the dept. of financial accounting at State U. of New York, Buffalo, has been named director of the pro­fessional development division of the American Institute of CPAs. He was instrumental in the development of the first course in electronic data 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
with the best of them. BILL ENGLEHART came 
from Lombard, lU. and JIM ROTCHFORD 
arrived from Arlington, Va. and BOB GEISEN 
from Ft. Mitchell, Ky. 
BOB GAFFNEY from Whitesboro, NY. dropped by to see us and asked for Pete Kemaa who had just left. TOM RIORDAN came up from Whitcs­boro with Bob. BILL LEONARD *50 of Huntsville, Ala. came by to see what all the cheering was about. We told him. He joined in. 
There were many who could stay but a moment or two but did stay long enough to say "hello"— "nice party"—"see you in '69." All told, some 60 or 70 people came, appeared to enjoy the little celebration, and enabled FRED CROWE and your reporter to pay the bartender and effect some sort of expense reconciliation. 
A truly major effort was put out by Fred and Rosemary Crowe in arriving for the complete refreshment program for the affair. They worked! And again I tip my hat to them as I did that evening some t^vo hours after the party began. Well done! 

How strange the fates. Fred Crowe, who heads a flourishing accounting finn in South Bend, had been mentioning to us that the staff has been very busy and "things have gone reasonably weU." 
processing for business to be offered at the U., and also assisted in the revision of development of graduate courses in accounting, systems, theory and problems in cost admimstration. 
PETE VARDA has resigned as the head foot­ball coach in Vigo County School Corp., Terre Haute, but will continue to coach baseball and be health and physical education teacher. During his time as football coach he compiled a 112-54-7 record at Honey Creek HS. 
Barbara and ED KELLY and their ax lovely children send their best regards, as does Rev. DAN CLARKE, pastor at Saint Ritrick's Church. Cumming, Iowa, and editor of the Des Moines diocesan newspaper. Joan and JACK NUSSKERN and their Kfark, Kevin, Sue and Tammi in Sewickley, Pa. report that Kevin is pla^ng junior high ball and will be bigger than older son, Mark, age 18, 6*1", 243 pounds. Their daughters are settling for cheerleader and majorette. Jack ended his season last Fall at Quaker Valley HS with an 8 and 1 record, the best in the high school's 12­
lUi 
FBANK If. UNEHAIf P.O. BOX son 
BDfGHAinON. N.Y. UHB 
**JD» USINA hai letued from tbe US l^vy wiA 
the nmk of CoMmaader aad has bec« appointed-
exec. mmt, to the geaeial Bgr., ITT Fedeial 
labontories. Ft. Wayae. 
AL WADE is one of the first graad&thets'is 
the Qui. Al is mth Kindi Co., Stnrgis. BCch* 
Another rhiiit r has passed away — LARKY 
NOOK. We extend our coodoleaccs to his widam 
at 52 Cass St.. Soath Haven, Mam, 
Rev. DICK TDOf, CSC b viatins prof, of 
nematolosy at U. of Cafiforma. Davis. Dr. BILL 
and I^tricia Ann have a danghter at Jeffeison 
medical school of nnrsing and BHl ^ » ccu^eting 
his freshman year at Dartmouth. 
I notice where HARRY GHJJGAN's brother 
is seeking the Democratic nod for US senator from 
Ohio. Saw ERNIE RAUSCHER and Ernie Jr at 
the opening round of the NIT. Ernie is Vice-
IVcs. of Eastern Cokirtype Co., Clifton, NJ. 
Vicc-F^es. FRANK BEAUDINE has relocated 
to the midwest, 1302 Sunview Lane, Winnetka, HI. 
BOB GRIMES has transferred to Toledo with 
Fenn-Central. 
 RICHISKI 
6 ROBIN PLACE 
OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 
1946 
PETER P. 
. | A J n ARTHUR K. FALK has been ap­
• V^ M pointed dlxTctor of the inlerconneo J-V^LM tion cnsineerins dept. of the Detroit 
EtSson Co. PAUL L. ROISE has been appointed general mgr. of the Wayne Div. ol Divco-Wayne Coip. CLAIRE V. HANSEN has been awarded the profesHonal designation of Chartered Financial Analyst. 
1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 mOVUSG HILLS RD. 
CLIFTON, N J . 07013 
Tlungs were gone all r^ht. His oflkcs were "hit" by buiglais and the oflSce safe stolen the n^ t before the MSU game. Sud Fred—**Not much money, but those books and ledgers! Ugh!" 
A couple of short shots that have found thdr way to Driftwood Lane. JOHN C WALSH has been named treasurer of 
P. R. MalUxry & Co., an IndJanapoliv-hased elec­tronus firm and one of the nation's 500 largest firms. 
Bro. ELI has left the postmaster post at ND to accept an assignment at Pius XH School in Chester, NY. JOHN E. McCORMICK was promoted to chief engineer of General Telephone of Kmfiana last September t. 

Received a sad note from the Alumni Sec James Cooney informing me of the death of one of our '49er9—IAN L. LANDRY of New Orleans. No date of death was availaUe. Certainly, we will keep him in our prayers. 
Fortunately, I do have some material for our next go 'round. Bat they <£sappcar fast in a 1000 word column. Please use those ydlow cards so you can join EUGENE SULLIVAN (who sent me a great letter!), CHARLIE WAGNER, BILL BROCKHOFF, AL BZDULA and othen in the next pen parade here on Channel '49m 
year history. He was dectcd Class A representative in the offidab of the Western Pennsylvania Coach's Association and vic^pres. of the Blade Hills Foot­ball Conference. He reports talking ivith BERNIE POWERS '49, who is working for the Bishop's poverty program in the Pittsburgh area and re­ported that brother BILL POWERS is a prindpal at the high school in Ogdensborg, NY. 
BOB ROHLING, finally reporting from Omaha, after 17 years, ban been recently appmnted the vice-pres. of Henningsoo, Durham ft Richardson En^eering, Architecture and Planning. Althou^ hrs main effort is in the canl cnipaeesing depart­ment in Omaha, in his travds he has vsited JIM HOLWAY in Washington DC and BILL HERSON in Los Angeles (with Litton Industries). Lob Jean and BOB TOLUNGER have two bojrs and t«-o giris. He reports seeing JIM DRENNAN and JACK FINNEGAN on the west coast. 
For some of you, such as the JACK GOURT-NEYs, JOHN NEISes. BILL KENNEDYs, BILL EGGERS, JIM NACHTEGALs, HUGH MUI^ UGANs, JACK DONNELLYs, and othen who make an annual tour to ND for a football game in 
the fall, tip one for us who arc too far removed 
to enjoy such a viat. JIM HEINT2ELlkL\N has 
been named principal of Lincoln HS, South Bend. 
LEONARD COSTANTINI received his PhD 
from Ohio State U. CHARLES KERSGIETER 
has been named plant mgr. of the Asphalt Roofing 
Fadlity of Rubberotd Co., a dtv, of General 
Aniline and Film Corp. in ^finneapolis. RICHARD 
CLEARY, asnstant xice-prcs. of Bache and Co. 
Inc. and mgr. of the South Bend office, has been 
made a stockholder of the Worldwide Investment 
Firm. JOE GASPARELLA has been promoted to 
asst. prof, of architecture at Camcgic-^Iellon U. 
 JENNINGS 
BORG-WARNER CORP. 
200 S. MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO. ILL. 60G04 
1951 
JAMES 
Our sympathy to DICK G.MUUTY and to his 
mother. Didc's bthcr died ^farch 27 and was 
buried the 30th. 

JOHN BUCKLEY graciously passed on the in­formation that LEE BROWN and his recent bride Klonica are in Holland for a year of study and research at the Technical U. of Delft. The U. of Colorado and American Chemical Sodcty have assisted in under^iiting this expedition. Lee and Monica can be reached during this time at Isabellaland 14.84, The Hague, The Netherlands. 
WALT TURNER called to confirm that WALT CLEMENTS had indeed gone through with the 
1952 
WILLUlkf B. KING 613 E. DON.MOYER AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 

A few of you good souls have responded to the 
yellow card but, men, HIC need more participation. 
How about you vnvcs writing a few lines to let us 
know what's going on? 
Received a nice letter from JOHN P. MORAN, who has been living in Avon Lake, Ohio for ten years. John, his wife Mar>% and their five children whose ages range from four to 14 are really active. John has been Cleveland district mgr., case food div, of P&G Distributing Co. for eight years. He is 5er\nng his second term on the city council, chairman of the parisli council, teaches high-school senior CCD, coaches CYO basketball, and still manages time to make a firing. To keep pace \rith him, Mary his wife, is president of her sororit>*, scr\*cs on the boards of the Community Chest and the St. Joseph Guild and to top it off, was selected as 1966 Woman of the Year in Avon Lake. 
From the home of the great **shovcl," Peoria, HI., two of our classmates arc now working under the protective wing of tlic "giant earthmoring corp." Caterpillar Tractor claims BOB GORDON as asst. mgr. products div., marketing dept. Bob has six children. MIKE DENTINO is an asst. mgr. of the ad. dv. marketing dept. 
Dr. JOHN E. TILLIS of Rockford, III. is about to be installed as a Fdlow of the American College of Obstetridans & Gynecologists. The college, which promotes the medical health and care of women, accepts physicians who specialize complctdy in 
1953 
W. F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 JEAN RD. S.E. 
HUNTSVILLE, ALA, 35803 

Apparendy a gremlin got in my copy for that last issue; that busy classmate from Indianapolis should have been indentified as TOM O'BRIEN. 
How about the NTT tourney! One of our finest "subway" alumni around here. Rev. Roger Miller of St. Joseph's parish, hasn't come down to earth yet. Next year ought to be a whopper. 
Very sorry to learn of the deatli of DON REYNOLDS* wife in February. Be sure to indude her in your prayers. Received a nice note from JON McKENZIE's mother informing us of his promotion to full Cdr. in the Na\'y. Thanks, Mrs. }ifcKenric 
Heard from long-lost JOHN MOLENDA: "Just a few lines from a '53 grad. from the school of bus. ad. Married for 15 years and the father of 3 children; one futttre ND athlete Jimmncy, 11, and twb checrieaders, Sharon eight, and Marcia six. Am presently with the Credit Bureau of South Bend, recently ha\-ing been promoted to ricc-pres. of Sides and public relations. Residing at 29550 Johnson Rd,, North Liberty, Ind." Nice going, John. 
PAT KILLIAN, 1727 Paddock Cirdc, Charlotte, NC 28209 writes: **Hcrc's a long overdue card. Doris and I and five children arc living here about 
JOHN KELLY, in his position as ince^ms. for public relations of Mutual of New York, vnll administer and coordinate a staff of PR qiedalists in advertising, opinion research, national pubGdty and internal communications. Youn trvAj h die author of an article in the Insurance Coomd Journal concerning a trial lawyer's viewpoint of the misrepresentation defense of the health and life field. DUDLEY BIRDER advised me that there was a slight error—he has sx children, three boyi and three giris—not five total. Dr. MICHAEL J. FORSTER MS *50 PhD '51 has been promoted ttom group leader in textiles research to div. mgr. of fibers and textiles research at the Firestone Tire 
wedding. Walt specializes in mariwting services 
and is the President of Turner and Associates 
11017 S. Hale, Chicago. Walt lives with hb wife 
Linda at 2535 W. 115th St., Chicago, lU. 60655. 
Walt and Linda were married in '61 and they have 
four little tads; Walter, Jr., Lawrence, Carol and 
Denise. 
Walt mentioned he saw three of oar classmates 
at the wedding. First was DICK BURKE, who 
ii^'as transferred back to Chicago about a year ago 
and u-as then flying D&8s for United Ahr Lines. 
Since then Dick has become a captain and is now 
Ryiog the short-haul 737, so you may see him on 
a trip into South Bend. Dick and his wife Jaddc 
were married in 1956 and they have four children; 
Richard, Suzanne, &fartha and Christopher. They 
live at 9534 N. Lawndale Ave., Skokie, HL 
JACK BOEHM is a doctor, speciaUan^ in pre­
obstetrics and gynecology. John has to wait over five years after appl>-ing for membership so it's a pretty exdusive dub. Congrats to Dr. John E. Tillis. 

From the sunny south, ART STEVENS writes that he and his ivifc Trudy left Chicago in '54 and moved to New Orleans. Art is %^cc-pres. and trcas. of I^n-Am Life Investments. Bunness has brought them further south to South America, Caracas, Panama, Guatemala. Art would like to hear from HARRY BORNHOFEN and JOE McGAULEY. 
ED BALL writes from Monroe, La. that he, his vafe, and five children uill shortly be nKiving to Dallas (Tex,). Ed was promoted to regional mgr. for American Sign & Indicator Corp. of Spokane. His domain u-ill cover five states in the southwest with emphasb on marketing efforts. He- sore would like to hear from some of the old gang— TOM BOEHLING, BOB CHRIST, TOM COUGHLIN, JOHN LENORD, FRANK BOUSKA, and TIM CORCORAN. 
JOE HEMFFLING writes from Indianapolis about the birth of a new daughter. His wife Lou Ann and baby are doing fine. Joe is starting his 15th year with Kicfcr-Steu-art Co. down in Indianapolis, In all those years, he's never had an Excedrin headache because Kiefer makes another brand of tablet. 
EARL BEAUCHAMP is planning on early retire­ment in Flint, Kftdi. His wife, ^^r^nia, received her BA degree this January from the U. of Kfichigan. She is now a sdence tf^fhrr in the Flint school system. 
More kids—JACK LONG just had his nxth. Now has 3 boys, 3 girls. Jack is personnd director 
two years and have been \rith Caterpillar Tractor for 11. Used to see a number of N D grads in Illinois but they're really scarce down here*" Boy, and that's the truth, Pat! 
BOB MUNNS signed in: 'Olerc's a brief ron­down on one of the survivors of the nationally infamous *milk riot.' " (Remember?) A 14-ycar veteran of the marriage game, he b ralring a flanker end (David, eight), Unebacker (Kevin, seven), quarterback (Paul five), and checrieader 
(Kimberly, eleven). Sales mgr. for Whitlodt Inc., a mfr. of phistics machinery. See SYL SCHULTLE and his army often, he lives in Detroit. Bumped into TOM MURPHY in Chi a couple of weeks ago, he's with GMC. See BOB STEPHANY, JOHN CLARK, and JIM PFOHL once in a while —they're in plastics too. See you at the Reunion." 
Swell letter. Bob. His address: 27233 Nantucket Dr., Southfidd, Mich. 48075. 
Well, we don't have many feminine classmates so I was glad to hear from one of them. Mi s GENEVA E. LONG, who rccdved an MA in ed­ucation in '53. After teaching 45 yean in St. Joseph County she retired in June, 1967. She now lives at 1107 S. Ironwood Dr., South Bend. 
FRANK WOIDAT. are you reading thb? You won't write so your wife kindly did: "We arc living in Elmhurst, HI. (167 Ehn Tree Lane), with four children, two boys and two girls. Frank b in sales with West Point-PepperdL Wc attend most N D and Ridiber Co. Central Research Lab. 
I have been trying to talk my «Ad roommate, 
Rl^ S SCAL, into opening up a restaurant in the 
Miatwj area so wie could have some of his good 
steaks on the charcoal grill. I still have my hopes 
up but unce he is still tr^nng to do 48 hours worth 
of work in 24 hours, it may be some time. Mean­
«i4iile, all of you in the northern cGmatc stop 
into his supper dub in Appleton, Wis. Our other 
roommate, PAUL <«MACK" SCHAEFER, gen­
era] mgr. c^ Mike O'Neil's General Titc Co. here 
in Miami, assures Russ of Mack's good air cover 
here in KCami out of the Homestead AFB, but 
just on weekends. 
mature and newborn infants at Evanston Hosp, 
Jade is in academic medidnc and practices only 
by consultation and referral. He and Kfargie were 
married on January 10, 1959 in Europe and they 
have also lived in Denver, Leiungton and LA 
before returning to Chicago. With their three 
children Tommy (eight), Mike (seven), and 
Mary Margaret (three), they live at 1715 Silver­
ptne Drive, Northbrook, HI. 60062. 
BILL RICH is also a doctor and is also in 
academic medidne. Bill lives at 221 Wesley in 
Oak Pai^, lU. He is asst. prof, of psychiatry and 
neurology, assoc. dean for academic affairs, and 
Chief of Staff at the Loyob U. Hosp. 
Please drop us a note with some news. Also make plans to attend the Northwestern game on October 12 and look for your classmates in O'Shaughncssy Hall after the game. 
%rith General Foods in the international div. He manages to see JACK CUSACK in the summer and JOE GALLAGHER in the winter. The rest of tlic time he hibernates. 
For those of you who may not have read the '53 column in the last issue, "BRIAN DUFF now living in Wilmettc is seeking the Republican nomi­nation as secretary of state." We're not sure whether he is campaigning with his s^vord by his »de, but gf>od luck, Brian. 
The response to a get-together after the ND-NorthuTstern game was ovenvhclming. A single phone booth is all we need so far. If you arc interested in getting together, drop me a line. 
PATH. A. HESSLING has joined the Fint Bank & Trust Co, in South Bend. He is in the marketing services dtv. and will work with the computer services section. PETER J. DONAHUE has become a partner in Smith & Schnackc, a law finn in Dayton, Ohio. 
WILLIAM F. WHITE is now vice-pres. mid­west sales mgr. for Blyth & Co., Inc. in Chicago, RONALD E. ZIER has been appointed director of public relations for Warner-Lambert Pharma­ceutical Co. and lives in Glen Rock, NJ. 
Dr. JERRY R. RYAN is doing research in diabetes at the Joslin Clinic in Boston. He has also accepted a position for next year on the medical staff at Loyola U. in New Orleans. VINCENT H. POST %vas running for 6th H^rd councilman of Yonkers, NY as a Republican. Don't know whether he won or lost. RAYMOND A. SLYMAN has been named director of management training for Mutual of New York. 
home football games. Our daughter attends school with one of JOE TRUCCO's daughters. (He died in an accident several years ago.) His children are in many TV commercials—^Nestles Chocolate, Mc­Donald Hamburgers, etc." Thanks, Marilyn, arc you other wives taking note? I bet Afarilyn will tell you it really didn't hurt much. 
BOB MULLEN dropped a line to say he, BILL MAUS and DON DORINI would be up for the Reunion. Arriving via the Dorini ^ r Lines, no less! FRANK B. EPSTEIN has joined Mogen David in the newly created position of Northern HI. state mgr., outside of Chicago and Cook County. 
0^. MICHAEL L. GROZIER has joined the clinical research dept. of the Squibb Institute for medical research as asst. clinical research director. PATRICK SHANAHAN has been promoted to fun prof, in the mathematics dept. at Holy Cross CoDege. JOHN F. COX, an asst. dir, of the National Education Assodation's Div. of press, radio, and TV relations has been appointed a qiecial asst. to the NEA's exec sec NEA fibns under Cox's supervision have been honored at several national and international film festivals. He b a co-author of a ho6k. Television ta the Public Interest. 
That's it for now; and will be for all time unless yon guys WRITE! Please, I'm sometimes staggered when I think of all those who have never signed in. Let's get uith it. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS

CmnMnrdLitQ I 
William W . Moore '45 has been elect­ed president of the Industrial Gas Cleaning Institute. This is a national as­sociation of manufacturers of equipment for air pollution control and other types of industrial gas cleaning. Moore is vice-president and division manager, air pollution control division, of Rc­search-Cottrell Inc. 
Thomas L Ward '46 has been ap­pointed by Gov. Otto Kcmer of Illinois to the Urban Area Study Commission. This group will examine the existing variety of local governmental units and make recommendations that could re­sult in the modernization of Illinois' local government. Ward is assistant to the district director of public relations for US Steel in Chicago. 
C Travis Marshall '48 has been named vice-president of marketing of the E. F. Johnson Co., manufacturer of two-day 

1954 
MILTON J. BEAUDINF, 21 SIGNAL HILL BLVD. 
E. ST. LOUIS, ILL. 62203 

If you read the editorial on page 3 of the March-April ALUMNUS by Dick Rossic I'm sure you were just thrilled to learn that today's students arc creating a new ND. How come wc didn't do anything like that when wc had our chance? I guess we missed the boat—too busy getting an education to educate or create. 
On our behalf it must be said wc weren't too qualified to create a new University, having less than a college education at the time and no real experience or prior accomplishments. Wc let N D leave her mark on us instead of us leaving our mark on her. 
I hope Rossic's mark isn't a stain and I wish he'd create a new University someplace else. 
And that's the rub. Bub! 
AL BRANIGAN is a partner in the patent law film of Griffin & Branigan. Al and his better half Susan have only five boys and three girls. They haven't planned as well as GEORGE HUBB-ARD and Maryann who have four of each. Al reports that DON DOWDEN is also a patent attorney. Al lives at 4531 N. Dittmar Rd., Arlington, Va. 22207 and occasionally sees JOHN SETTER, JERRY TOOMEY, and FR.W ROMANCE in and around the Washington, DC area. 
LCDR. JOHN CUNNINGHAM is an internist at the Naval Hosp. in Philadelphia. John and wife Maryanne have two boys and have traveled extensively for Uncle Sam. Their last tour took them to Spain and Portugal where they took in the bullfights. 
Also heard from Cmdr. JOHN NORTON. John's in the data processing branch, on the staff of the commander antisubmarine warfare force. The Nortons have three boys and t«t> girls. Their most recent blessed event occurred on Oct. 23 
AlUMNUS MAY 19« JUNE 
radio systems and electronic components in Waseca, Minn. Marshall will direct the company's marketing, distribution and sales activities for all products. 
William P. Dioguardi '47 has been 
named athletic director of Montdair State College where he has been acting director since October. Dioguardi has been basball coach there for 19 years and has a record of 272 wins and 133 losses. In his years as coach he has only one losing season to his credit. For the present Dioguardi will continue his coaching duties. 
John Sheridan '49 has been named \'ice-president of domestic sales, north­ern division, of the Princess Coal Sales Company. He has been with the com­pany 14 years and moves to this posi­tion from the job of manager of the Chicago district. 
with the arrival of red-haired Kathleen. Their most recent address is 2352 Great Neck dr., Va. Beach, Va. 23454. 
While on birtlis—GENE HENRY and Afice had number five, a son Stephen on Dec. 29, just in time to be counted as a '67 deduction. Nice planning. Gene. 
Would you believe that the MALONEs left NJ for LA? CHRIS is general mgr. for Pirelli Tires. Chris and Tonie now live at 1321 Via Catahmaj Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. 90274. 
JOE COSGROVE is sales mgr. for the Chinook Helicopter, Boeing Co., and has spent time in Vietnam, Italy and Germany while he keeps Cathy busy at home having little Cosgrovcs. Number four, Brian was bom May 20, 1967 and niunber five is due this May. 
JI.M LIBERATORE, 2164 Arthur Ave., Lake­wood, Ohio 44107 would like to hear from JOE LEAZER, DAN WHALEN, and other good bud­dies. Jim has 6 children and is now with Manage­ment Recruiters International. 
BILL AMUNDSON, PO Box 3025, Sioux City, Iowa 51102 is director of public works and city engineer there. He'd love to hear from some of the CE's. 
MARK McCABE's better half Maureen writes that Mark is chief inspector at Saginaw Steering Gear, Div. of GM and that they have three giiis and two boys. 
Dr. YATES HAFNER has been appointed asso­ciate dean of faculty at Antioch 0>I. in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Last siunmer he developed inde­pendent study guides in landmarks of western literature, a course he is offering this year. Dr. NICHOLAS A. KRALL, formerly of the General Atomic Co., has been appointed prof, of pbyacs at the U. of Marybnd. 
EDW.-UIO R. O'CONNOR is a foreign service officer of the State Dept. and is assigned in Washington as a fellow in science and technology ot the Dept. of CriMfrrf. Be it miiiBg rnik the OSee of MiritinK fti—utiim at die Ibritiae AdministntiDa. H e has just completed •year' * tour of doty nader this pragraa as the iatcfoa­tioaal aSain adviair ID the aeir aUoaHUe adcty pmgraia. 
Not mach «s add ahoat RICH mjlOIAS. Spotlight w d it aU. Kich aad Koole BHmd t s Yaaagstmm. Ohio anuad Dec I. UcDoaaU's aie oat, Ked Ban's ia. The Hohnoat irill be at our rennion party after the OUahoaa gaaae lUi year. AlaHst eniyone who writes meatiaBS comiag to one gaiae or another—how dboat Bakng the effort for the Gist gaaie aad cor aanoal Tenaiai party. Sock it to aie baby! 
Or. JIU CANNON has been dected to the board and named treasurer of Yiatiaa and is Bviac in Wayland. Uass. FKED MANN is aart. aigr. of Jbaes Transfer Div. Coopcr-Janctt Inc. ia Sockford, lU. 
BOB ZEIS is the asst. bos. mgr. for the Denver Post and PHIL DICKERMAN is the mgr. of the plasma and election div. section at H T Kescarch Institute. 
PAUL PARRISH was recently dted for soperior professioiial performance by the spacecraft dept. at GE, Valley Foige. ART HUNTER, ex Ram, is area supervisor for Traveleis Express Co., Inc. in aonthem Calif. 
JOHN LATTNER'S icstuiant bomed down in Chicago and he's politicking while waiting for rebnOding. RON HEALEY b director of com­mercial development of the eastern region for Cyanamid International, baaed at Wayne NJ. 
As stated in Spotlight, BOB MARTIN has been decorated for extraonfinary achievement, flying over Vietnam. May I add a thank yon. Bob? Bob is now serving in England. 
Dr. RAY ROSEDALE is on the advisory board of Ohio's Crippled Children's Service. Ray is an ear and throat vedalisl. ED TRUSELA is chief of procuTcniettt and production in the USAF systems command's aero. (fiv. at Wi^t-Kittcnon AFB (Ohio) and a working oa the C5 Galaxy, the ivorld's largest airplane. 
WILLIAM DALY writes, "After sic yean of personnel work in industry and seeming an MS in petaoimel administration from Loyola at night school, I entered the hospital administration field. Liked it so well that now I and my %vife Jan are in Atlanta while I am completing academir re­quirements (again n^ht school) at Gcoigia State Col. Flan to move to Augusta, Ga. for my nine month residency and then move back to the Chicago area." 
And that uses up the entire backlog on notes, cards and letters. Save this column. Write Write Write. Here comes De Judge. Here comes Oe 
Judge. 
1955 
PAin. FULLMER 
aa LARKOALE DR. GLENViEW. nx . fines 

Hals off to JOHN HAHONEY for his letter of the cycle, bimging me (and you) up to date on the NY contiogent. "On the way back to New York follotring the SUMMA conference, my wife and I met DON LUECKE and his wife Joan. Their daughter was the quietest passenger on the jet. Don said he is now with Miles Laboratories in Elkhart. During the campaign, JAMES G. MONGELLO, the joang man from Ohio, has been of considerable help for a comparatively newiywed. Jim now b with the European American Corp. of 63 WaU St. (His charming and beantiful wife's name is Eleanor.) 
At half-time of the Army-NIT game I ran into CHARLES DURYEA. He's married and has six children. He is now Uving in Massapeqna, NY. MIKE WARD and I managed to obtain tickets for the semi-finals. Mike is asst. football coach for lona Piep's all-winning team. He probably con­tinues to lead the class with nine children, not to mention the new puppies and guppies—hundreds. Mike says that JOE DALEY now is with Nixon (have I heard that name somewhere??]. Rose, Guthrie and Alexander in NY. 
By the way of San Mateo, CaEf., JIM PAVIS and his wife Betsy state that they are enjoying western life. They have four children. Jim says he has been maUag paint for CBriea. A few feDows may not know that Dr. JOHN J. TOOHIG is back in NY following the completion of his metfical stnifies in Irdand. Is there a better place? John has three daagfaters. A Ettle weight and a lecofing i"iJt»» ute his main problems. John, who is with Manubctmcrs Hanover Tnot Co., Eves at 75 tntptct Park W. in, where ehe (?), Brooklyn. Keep these epistles coming, old man. 
Fadier Browa, our rector at Wabh, said a 

special Mass April 6 for GEORGE SASKO who 
died March 4. He leaves his wife Margaret, who 
lives at 3336 Kirkficld Dr., Ft. Wayne. 

Jane Byrne, the widow of BILL BYRNE who 
was killed in 1959 while fljing for the Marines, 
recently was named head of Chicago's dcpt. of 
consumer sales, weights and measures (our ans^ver 
to Betty Pumess), the first woman ever to serve in 
a mayor's cabinet here. 

JIM BROUGHTON dropped me a line to 
straighten out some mis-information that slipped 
into the Reunion column. He's ^%'ith the United 
Motors Serwce Div. of G^L "We advertise under 
the name 'United Deico' and distribute automotive 
replacement parts, made primarily by other GM 
divisions, through independent wholesalers to ser­
vice stations." Jim's a senior procedures writer in 
the systems analysis section. His section is involved 
in dc\'eloping and defining computer applications 
for programmers. He adds that two classmates, 
SHAWN F-\LLON from the NY area and JIM 
BIGELOW from the Seattle zone, recently were 
among those honored as outstanding salesmen for 
United Motors. Jim Bigelow has since moved to 
Detroit to work in the ad. dcpt. 
Storic Department bulletins: R.F. HART and his 
wife Mary welcomed their third son, Shawn 
Stcplian. Nov. 20, 1967. PAT DI P.\SQU.ALE and 
wife Charlotte welcomed tlieir third daughter 
March 6. Dr. JOHN RY.AN and his Renee now 
have seven children after the latest arri\*al. 
CLEM DEVINE reported in, via a yellow card (some arrived too late for this column and will be in the next) to say that he calk 1123 Shore-crest Dr.. Racine, Wis., home for his family that includes three children. "Would like to learn the whereabouts of DICK ^BROOKLYN' ALANION, WALT GUGLIELMO (saw 'Digger' here in Chicago recently) and DON SILEO. Also please ask ROD CYRIER to reply to my last letter (come on Rod!)." 
RON MOTTI, a state rep. in Ohio, u-as making headlines in Cleveland when I passed through recently. He and the local machine were exchanging words and law suits. 
J.ACK GITS has joined Chcmplcx Co. as a sales rep. ENRIQUE SOL, general manager of Coca-Cola Bottling Co. way down south of tl»e border, has introduced a new beer called Cuscatleca. Re­member, you heard it here first! Did you sec TOM C.-\SSIDY in Time? It seems that Tom is one of the first lawyers in the countrv* to use i-ideotapc in tlie legal field (depositions, wills, etc.). Still looks as dapper as ever. Enjoyed the comments of Time's publisher on RAY KEN­NEDY'S brief fling at ballet as background for **Rodcnt's" cover story on ballet. It seems that Ray backed into the spear of another extra and made a quick exit. 
Hats off to AF Maj. TOM O'lLARA who received the air medal for outstanding service in Vietnam. Tom now has been reassigned to Colum­bus AFB, Miss. Also glad to hear that Capt. JOHN MURRAY is back (7301 Austin St. Annan Dale, Va.) after an overseas stint. Major MARTY MAHRT has been transferred (211 Boning Dr., 

Goldsboro, NC). Capt. AMEEL RASHID geU his 
mail at Quarters 88&4, Ft. Lewis, Wash. 

Marty Mahrt is a member of the 4th Tactical 
Fighter Wing that deployed from Seymour John­
son AFB (NC) to Korea during the recent buildap 
tlierc. Maj. AL PETRANICK has received the 
SAC Golden Bomber Award at Griffiss AFB (NY) 
for his outstanding performance during recent 
operational readiness inspection. 
DICK BATTLES has been named a Sloan 
Fellow and w^ll study at MIT for a year woHung 
for a MS degree in management. He is employed 
by Boeing. GEORGE PEZDIRTZ has won the 
N.ASA Arthur S. Flemming Award for 1968. The 
awards are given annually to the ten outstanding 
young men in the federal govt. JIM WALSH has 
resigned as exec, director of Catholic Social Service 
to accept an appointment as director of court 
sci^ices for the Jackson County (Mo.) juvenile 
court at Kansas City. BOB HAIDINGER has been 
named vicc-pres. of administration of the ITT 
Wire and Cable Div. TOM SCHREITlklUELLER 
has been appointed asst. administrative engineer 
for Pontiac Motor Division's engineering dept. 
DOUG &f AGER has been awarded the professional 
designation of Chartered Financial Analyst. He u 
employed as a security analyst by Moody's In­
vestors Senice in NY. 
D.AVE DISCHER, my high-school classmate from Elmhurst, recently moved the belongings to 9914 Garden Grove, Northridge, CaliL Others who moved recently include ED BORUS (106 Ranch Trail West, WiUiams\-ilIe, NY); MARTY CULHANE (1107 14th Ave.. Monroe, Wis.); JOHN WANCHOW (3020 Rolling Springs Dr., Carmel, Ind.); TON'Y GUTHRIE (815 Hastings Ave., Pittsburgh); DAN SULLIVAN (220 Wend-over Dr., Princeton, NJ); TOM GALLAGHER (142 Brampton Rd., Garden City, NY); JIM AOKI (1500 Mass. Ave. NW, Washington); Dr. H.\ROLD OTT (1400 Eudora, Denver); MIKE ELLIS (4242 South St., Lincoln), and BOB HUPPE (7521 Main, Kansas City, Mo.). While we're on the subject, whatever happened to CARL STUMP? 
Here's the latest from the PO—LCDR. JIM PHILLIPS, USS Coral Sea—CVA 43, FPO San Francisco 96601; JOE BAUMIE, 14204 Haymeadow Dr., Dallas 75240; JOE FONTANA, 1492 McAfee St., St. Paul 53106; MACK STEWART, 3711 Potomac, Texarkana, Tex. 75501; JOHN Mc VEY, 2511 Town & Country Lane, St. Louis 53131; BOB KUNZE, Town & Country Apts., Shaffer Ave.. Orange, Calif. 97740; HARRY NIEMANN, 15 Woodcliffe Dr., Simsbury, Conn. 06070; Dr. WAYNE PETERNEL, 3488 Lannette Lane, Lex­ington, Ky. 40503; JOHN MUSOUNO, 1875 Kentucky St., Quincy, lU. 62301; GENE MILLER, 802 E. Porter St., Albion, Mich. 49224; and BILL KENNEY, 1722 W. Lombard St.. Davenport 52804. 
Don't forget to order tickets for the Purdue game so you can whoop and holler at the Class party! 

The visit of JOSE REYES-SOMOZA  '56 to Santo Domingo as part of 
an official Nicaraguan mission was the occasion of a reunion with some Dominican Republic NDers. Shown at the Nicaraguan Embassy are (left to right) BENJAMIN PAIEWONSKY '59. Mrs. Juan Rafael Pacheco Jr, Jose Reyes-Somoza, Mrs. Paiewonsky, JUAN RAFAEL PACHECO JR '56. 
1936 
EUGENE O'CONNOR CXKGROVE ft O'CONNOR 
656 ELLICOIT SO. BUX!. 
BUFFALO. N.Y. 14203 

River Forest, ID. is still home for our most eligible 
Italian bachelor, NICK MAVIANO (Mavigliano), 
viho is quite involved in the family grocery 
business. GERARD MEYER keeps busy serving 
Hoffman Estates, Roselle, 111. as Village Council­
man. FATHER JAMES McG. O'BRIEN, wooing 
out of Notre Dame High in DeKalb, HI. has taken 
on new responsibilities as area captain for diocesan 
directors of radio and TV. JIM LYNE is most 
involved in molding the athletic fortunes at Hales 
Franciscan High on Chicago's south ade. An un­
mistakable voice behind me at lunch one noon 
turned out to be JERRY G.\TTO, controller for 
L & P Broadcasting Corp.—owners of two of 
Chicago's leading radio and stereo F&I stations, 
WVON and WSDM; his aU-Italian family of five 
settled into a new home on Chicago's southwest 
side. JOHN DEASY received word from TOM 
POWERS, vice*pres. of Consolidated American 
Ser^^ces, Inc. that their main offices have moved 
to Century City in Los Angeles. WALTER NAGEL 
was transferred by General Motors Parts Div. on 
May 15 and will be living on Pcachtree Lane in 
Williamsport, Mar)-land; he took with him La-
Grange I^irk's top Den Mother, Jan, and their 
three children, Walter, Teddy, and Julie. 

Received a note from GEORGE EDGINGTON 
who further depleted our bachelor ranks Feb. 10 
when he married the former Linda Steele of 

Grcenbtae, Calif. George's varied actiWties of the 
past 12 years include three years with the Peace 
Corps in Tanzania. He is currently a jr. high 
teacher in Los Angeles. 

Dr. PAUL J. INEICH, his wife Sallie (SMC 
*57), and their two children are enjoying life in 
JadcsonviUe, 111. where Paul has practiced den­
tistry for the past sue years. Dr. RONALD WEBER 
assDC prof, communication arts at ND, ^rill be 
Fulbright lecturer in American lit. and civilization 

from September '68 through August '69 at the U. 
of Coimbra, Portugal. 

BOB MORSCHES, Lt. Cdr. in the USN, his vnfe and six children, are presently in Tcipei, Taiivan, where Bob is ass't. chief of staff in intel­ligence for the Chinese area. 
CHRISTOPHER C. REITZE IH has been ap­pointed claim mgr. of the Httsburgh branch office of General Group Ins. DONALD J. KILLIAN has been awarded the professional designation of Chartered Financial Analyst. He is mgr. of cor­porate securities for State Farm Mutual in Bloomington, III. 
JOSEPH WEIBEL transferred from the Cleveland to the NY sales staff of Fortune magazine May 1. RICHARD R. SHAY has been appointed asst. vice-pres. of First Western Bank's real estate loan dcpt. in LA. 
Dr. PAUL COLLIGAN recently became as­sodated with two other pathologists in the director­ship of the laboratories at Mercy Hosp. at Benton Harbor, Ikfemorial Hosp., St. Joseph Hosp. and Community Hosp., Watervliet. Paul, his wife Rose and 13 month-old son, live at 452 Onondaga Rd., Fairplain. 
KENNETH J. SIVE has been named assoc. dist. sales mgr. for Indiana and western Michigan by HalhnaA Cards Inc. DONALD H. BRENNAN received his doctor of jurisprudence from Gcorge­toum U. in 1965 and w^ introduced to the Vir­pnla supreme court in spring, 1967. He is now an asst. researcher for the Senate committee of NASA with office in the old Senate Office Bldg. His new address is 6013 Loretto St., Springfield, Va. 22150. 
The coming months promise to be very busy for your Class secretary. I've been nominated as the Democratic candidate to oppose the incumbent Rep. in the 40th Congressional District and I'm looUng forward to a very spirited campaign. DICK RUPP is leaving Georgetown U. after seven ^-cars to become an asst. professor of English at the U. oC KCami in Septemner, Dick and his wife had tiidr second child on Feb. 2. 
MORE '56 NEWS 
We wish the 900 other members of our illustrious Class could have been with us at Agostino's Rcs­tamrant in Chicago April 17. It was then that JIM FINNEGAN chairmanned the ND '56 quarterly dinner that was a real ball! To facilitate the writings of this effort, those attending con­tributed *'press releases" like: 
DON COSTELLO and his wife Gale arc ex­pecting their first child in July. Don does creative work with the Tatham-Laird & Kudner Ad. Agency in Chicago. PAT CRADDOCK passed the nHnois Bar exam recently the hard way: follow-
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

ing years of night school in Chicago. 
PAUL NOLAND is a practicing attorney in the 

Loop, and resides with wife and four children in 
Glen Ellyn, III. ROGER O'REILLY needs a 
boost, says Paul. He also recommended that all 
see JOHN W. CORBETT for bullish securities. 
And said Mr. Corbctt refused further comment 
except to announce that his family has recently 
moved to Whcaton, III. 
ROBERT A. CARRANE supports three sons and 

his Irish^cooking wife with his own law practice 
on LaSalle street. 
ROBERT SALVINO is opening a second State 

Farm Insurance office in Chicago's Loop to sup* 
picment his booming clientele in the Scottsdale 
Center on Chicago's southwest side. Bob and 
Carrie have sons Chris and Robert and a daughter, 
Cindy. 
THOMAS B. MCNEIL L is another LaSalle 

street attorney with the firm Mayer, Friedlich, 
Spiess, Tiemey, Brown & Piatt. Two girls and a 
young son are the pride and joy of Tom and 
Ingrid in suburban Kcnihvorth. 
JAMES P. FINNEGAN supports Peggy. Kathy, 

Jimmy, Joey and Kelly Finnegan and their mother 
in northwest suburban Arlington Heights through 
his sales efforts for Cole of California (swimwear). 
And it^s hoped that by the time you read this, 
Julie or Philip Finnegan has safely arrived on the 
scene. 
CHUCK MILLIGAN reported on his baseball 

conditioning as well as the fact that he's account­
ing mgr. for the Jewel Companies Inc. A resident 
1957 
GEORGE W. GROBLE 111 WEST WASHINGTON ST. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 

S.O.S. to all those who have any news: The well is running dry, so please sock it to me with the word. First news of interest is that DENNIS TROES­
TER has volunteered his services to attempt to 
arrange for the accommfxlations at one of the motels 
for Class football weekend. We have chosen the 
Illinois game Oct. 19. All who want to make this 
one, please order your tickets and then we'll advise 
on the arrangements. 
From the Alumni Office: The City Motel at 1631 Lincoln Way £. informed us they would have rooms available. Reservations must be made on an individual basis and must be for both the 18th and 19th. Price is $12.00 a day for a double and $15 for a family room. Unfortunately, the motel ^^dll not block out a group of rooms for us so we suggest you make your reservations as soon as possible. 
JACK ROBINSON reports he is now located c/o Esso Standard Malaya Berhad, FO Box 610, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and he and spouse run the retail sales and advertising. Jack invites us all to drop in to see him on our way through town, especially the Vietnam visitors on R&R. I don't think I'll be by in the near future. Jack. I'm advised GREG SULLIVAN is behind in the letter department. 
Alarilyn Reinhold reports out of Cincinnati that JACK and herself have No. 4, a daughter Klarch 
10. JIM iHLOTA was called in as godfather. Old roomies BILL LODGE and JIM MEEH.\N 
1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
102 "I" ST. 
LAPORTE, IND. 46330 

The news this time is somewhat limited. However, we hope that will be remedied for next issue by those of you who have neglected to contact us in recent years. How about dropping us a card? 
BILL ROBI (2234 Shannon Lane, Walnut Creek, Calif.) is asst. vice-pres. and mgr. of the super­vised loan dept. Crocker-Citizens Bank in San Francisco. The Robi family now includes four children, ages eight, six, four and two. 
Also included in the note from Robi \vzis the news that DICK MERCY is teaching philosophy in Montana; MIKE HERB is practicing law in Lynnwood, Washington; BILL REISERT and family are still residing in Louisville and TOM HUGHES is in Portland. 
EDWARD MEELL (46 Johnson Rd, Someiset, NJ 08873) was recently promoted to sr. editor, social studies, for the film div. of AfcGraw-Hill Book Co. NYC. 
Dr. JAMES W. LINEHAN (2312 Woodhnd Ave, San Jose, Calif. ] recently completed his surgical residency at Stanford Medical Center and expects to enter practice in San Jose in July. Jim attended med school at St. Louis U., is married and has one child, James Jr. Jim would of Palatine, III., Chuck and wife have two boys 
and two girls with number five due this spring. 
RICHARD ALLISON took time from hh 

Richall Paper Products Inc. to tell ^bout his new 
home and young Cbiistopher—almost one year 
old now. 
DENNIS POWERS flew low up from Peoria and his thriving casualty insurance business to Join the festivities and inquired as to the activities of DICK "ROCK" O'CONNOR, BILL BORAZEK, BILL BRISSICK, BOB O'MALLEY, JACK "SWINGER" DUMAS, "JUMPIN*" JIM MORAN and ROBERT "STRAIGHT ARROW" McGOLDERICK. 
A former Pcorian and supporter, JERRY SPAETH, showed his card identifying him as vice-pres. of Bulk Terminals Co. in Chicago. The Spaeths have four sons. 
HENRY S. DIXON wrote (which is ne^vs ia itself) that he couldn't make it due to an important political meeting in Freeport; and after he had promised Jim Finnegan that he would *'bring . . . some of the farm boys from Dixon." PAUL BERRETINI and PAT JONES washed ont along with Henry. 
M.-\RK P. BURNS welcomed THOMAS CAP­LETT back from exile in California. Mark in<Ucated he'd be in with one of IBM's newest computers to show Tom, who is the new controller for Midas International (mufflers). Tom and his family moved into a new home in Naperville, HI. in early spring. 
better sec that he toes the line for the young lady. 
Big news out of Milwaukee reports **TIffi 

TIGER" TOM MULaMIY is wce-pres. of The 
Milwaukee Co., on investment securities firm. Any 
hot tips, Tom? 
Had a chance meeting with attorney BILL BAUER at a January law seminar. Bill was combining a Chicago holiday weekend mth some education. Bill is the father of four and is practicing in Burlington, la. 
JOHN ROBINSON JR's wife Jean advises that John is stationed at the 71st Evacuation Hosp. in Pleiku, Vietnam. Their count is now three sons and they are keeping their home in Memphis. Mary Ann Black reports that FRANK BLACK. has entered Valparaiso law school as a full-time student after 10 years in the banUng business. Hopes arc high for a 1970 graduation. The Blacks also have three sons. 
Congratulations to HANK LUEPKE in bring made a partner in the St. Louis law firm of Lewis, Rice, Tucker, Allen & Chubb. Reports out of New Orleans indicate everyone buys life in­surance from hustling LARRY HENNESSEY who is Union Central Life's total sales leader and prcs. of the $500,000 Club. 
BILL JOLLY has moved to Hartford where he is with the Fin. Div. of Heublein, Inc. as a sr. systems analyst. ART McBRIDE is Vice-Pres. of the Yellow Cab. Co. in Cleveland where he recently was honored by the St. Vincent Charity Hosp. for his long service. Art and wife Rita have three children. 
In February T had lunch with CLARENCE "BUD" SCHLEHUBER in Chicago. Bud was 
like to hear from his former roommate, BILL GRIFFIN. 
WILLIAM McKEEVER JR (35 SummerhM Drive, Ashcville, NC) his wife Joyce and three children have now been in Ashcville for five years, having moved from New York. BUI is now a partner in McCarlcy & Co. (members of the NY stock cxcliangc). Bill sees very few N D grads in his area and is tlicrefore looking fon^'ard to the Reunion in June. 
DON LOPEZ (233 Elm, Hillside. HI.) writes that he and CARL &1ADDA are eagerly antidpat* ing the coming Reunion. 

JOE &fULLIG.\N sends us news via newspaper clipping of the appointment of B. A. REARDON as gen. supcr\*isor—computer scr\ices for Armco Steel Corp. Blaise joined Armco In 1960 as an accounting asst. and thereafter became a clerical methods analyst and supervisor of systems services. 
BILL DOTTERWEICH (1381 Redleaf Lane, East Lansing, Mich.) took a new position last December as general mgr. of Foote Industries, a manufacturer of trailer hitches and automotive accessories. In January Bill's father passed away after several years of heart trouble. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Bill in behxJf of all the members of the Class. In February Bill and his wife Peggy welcomed their first daughter (preceded by three sons) and in March the Dotterweichs 
PHILIP J. BRADTKE annonnced cpen house in early summer for all to inspect his new heme presently nnifer construction: an architect's dream house! 
JOHN P. DEASY had nomerons profound com­ments on the political and racial sitnations in the Chicago area; meanwhile his life insurance efforts continue with the Equitable. MARTIN E. MVlr-LARKEY is now the food service markets mgr. for Evcrpure Inc. in Oakbrook, 10. BCary Elizabeth became number four child in the Oak Lawn Mullarkey household. 
Our Class representative on the Chicago Club board of directors, JAMES P. RYTHER, pai^ ticipated at the qtuet engineering end of the table with JIM REVORD and TOM MULLARKEY. MotoroU's CHESTER BOTCHELL was a welcome neivcomcr to the group of '36 diners. THOMAS WEBB SEXTON JR volunteered to join Bob Salvino, John Manion and Bob Carrane on a committee to study the possibility of establishing a scholarship fund at N D for sons of deceased members of our Class. Comments from all mem­bers of the Class are urged; please ivrite your Class secretary or John Kfanion. John Corbctt will chair the next '56 Class get-together In early summers-date and location to be announced. 
Other than all the aforementioned, not much new at Manion honsehold; Little League, Parish Men's Board, St. Vincent de Paul Society, Cub Pack Chairman, gardener, caipenter, et c 
JOHN MANION 

here as a representative to the Am. Bar Assn. from Minnesota «diere he is practidng law at Fine ]bland, bcrides raising a family of five. BILL THEES is now plant n^r. of the Hoover Ball & Bearing plant in Ann Arbor. Received annual reports this year from JOHN SLEVIN and JIM DRISCOLL. Slevin's report is getting more pio­fesnonal each year with photos £rom AP and UP and datelines. The Slevin clan of six children have kept excitement h^h in Peoria. The Driscolb live in Youngstown, OIuo with their five children of all assorted sizes. 
DICK LEWIS reports out of the Southeast and advises the law practice a keeping him out of mischief. He's been in contact with FRANK HALL down Jamaica way where we understand Frank is the big shot at one of the hotels. Frank has two cluldren. 
This March my wife and I were guests of BOB CNEI L and wife Barb at their new home in the Potomac, Md. area. Bob gave us directions from IK! which included the fording of a stream. I thoi^ht he was kidding but he wasn't. Bob assures us that thb DC subway project vnll be going ahead •oon. 
CHESTER MITCHELL has recently been stepped up as mgr. of marketing for hospital producrts of Motorola's communication div. BOB BRANICK has formed a partaership in the practice of orthopedic stugery at the I^resbyterian Med. Center in San Francisco. JOE BIHN is the "bluest" chicken grower in Pleasant Hills. Calif. Joe and wife have three children. The oldest is 11 now. Wow, are we growii^ old. Congratulations to ED GORDON and wife with the addition of a daughter in October in St. RiuL 
moved into their new hmae in East Lonsng. Bill notes that he is looking forward to the June Reunion. 
&1ICHAEL J. FEEP^EY, a senior account mgr. for Hallmark Coids, Inc., Tulsa, has been named district sales mgr. at Omaha. 
Dr. RICHARD N. McCARTY recently joined the organic index editing department of Chemical Abstracts Service, Columbus. Dr. McCarty re­ceived his PhD in organic chemistry fnmx Indiana U. in 1966. 
NICHOLAS P. BARTOUNI has been appointed exec director of Ford Motor Company's product planning office. He and his wife and two children live at 34635 Fountain Bhrd., Westland, Mich. 
Dr. VICTOR J. DILLON is enrolled in Grado­ate Dental Dept. at St. Loub U. After graduation in June he plans to move to Washingtcm, DC and open orthodontic practice. 
WILLIAM B. CHESSON has been aj^intcd asst. general mgr. of WSTV-Radio in StenbenviUe, Ohio. He will be in crharge of all FM operations, in addition to his other duties. 
Rev. RONALD TRIPI CSC >s back In the US from Pakutan where he w(»-ked as a teacher in a Pakistani seminary and as a parish priest with an aboriginal tribe. After visiting with his family and oompletiii^ some ass^nments here be plans to zetnm to Pakistan* 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
LCdr. RICHARD S. THOMAS (USN) iias been aw'ardcd the Silver Star Alcdal for his actions against the Hanoi thermal power plant. EMILE 
A. BERNARD has joined the staff of the Los Alamos scientific lab to work in tlie weapon ph>'5ics div. 
WILLIAM J. JONES has been appointed mgr. of production control for Dodge Mfr. Corp. div. of Reliance Electric Co. JAMES BEESON has been appointed mgr. of industrial engineering in the Midland (Mich) div. of Dow Chemical Co. HERBERT deNOURIE has passed his bar exams at Washington U. 
Capt. JAMES BAZANY is participating in ''Operation Truong Cong Dinh" in Vietnam. It is part of the Allied counter offensive and is meant to drive the communists away from the major population centers and keep traffic moving on Rt. 4, the \-ital lifeline between Saigon and the southernmost region of tlic delta. 
^iiri^ JOSEPH p. MULLIG.\N lU^ U ADMISSIONS OFFICE 
1.000 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE D.\ME 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 You ivill notice a new address for the Class sec­retary* above. After three years at Elder HS in Cincinnati, teaching American lit and as asst. di­rector of public relations, I became an admissions 
BARRISTER BARGAINS 
T
HERE IS no area of American life which is more disputed, discussed and disagreed upon than the treatment of minority groups. Some people fight dis­crimination with words, others with bricks and Molotov cocktails. John R. Martzell '58, '61L attempts to right the wrongs with the best weapon society has ever produced—the law. 
When he left Notre Dame in 1961 ^lartzcll went to work as a law clerk for US District Judge J. Skelly Wright in Louisiana. Judge Wright handled the bulk of desegregation cases in New Orleans and southeast Louisiana. When Skelly departed for Washington he was succeeded by Judge Frank B. Ellis and, under him, Martzell dealt extensively with the constitutional problems relat­ing to the major desegregation suits in the Louisiana federal courts. 
In 1965 Martzell was hired by the cit>' of Bogalusa as special counsel on civil rights. He says, "For a year I represented the city and the police department in all the litigation growing out of the Bogalusa civil rights struggle. I also handled the negotiations between the Negro ci\'il rights organization, the Bogalusa Voters League and the city." 
In November, 1965, while bedded down in the hospital with a broken leg, Martzell was approached by a represen­tative of Gov. John J. McKeithen. He was asked to become executive director of the Louisiana Commission on Hu­man Relations, Rights and Responsibil­ities. He resigned his position with Bogalusa and took on the problems of discriminations on a state-wide level. Though he mostly directed the efforts of the 42-man commission, he also was a troubleshooter for the governor. 
About his job he explains, "When there would be a matter of overt racial confrontation in a community, I would be sent in to try to settle the matter." 

•42 
counselor at the University on June 17. I hope to see many of you this summer and fall when y*ou stop by the Campus, and hope you will pro­\4de us with many ''newsy** items about youiv selves and our classmates. 
JOHN ^L\RTIN has moved from El Cerrito, Calif, to 52 Linden Dr., Santa Clara, Calif. 95Q50. JIM HEAVEY got out of the Navy in March, 1963 and moved to LA as a project engineer with the Carnation Co. In 1962 he married Suzanne and they now have two daughters, Jennifer, three and Erin Marie, one. Last July tliey returned to Chicago for Jim's new job as installation engineer \rith Ehret Co. He is still active with the Na\'y and is a stafT member of the reserve destroyer div., 9th Naval dbtrict. 
Dr. NORMAN A. ODYNIEC is now chief resident surgeon at Mayo Clinic JOHN R. THOMAS, famous Glee Club tenor, has been named senior investment anal)*st in the Prudential Ins. Co.*s commercial and industrial loan dept. in Minneapolis. THOMAS M. O'DONNELL and JA&IES L. FARRELL, JR. have been awarded the professional designation of chartered financial analyst by the Institute of Chartered Financial Anal>-sts. Tom is director of regional research for McDonald & Co., Cleveland, and Farrell is portfolio administrator for the College Retirement Equities Fund, NY. JOE BRADY was awarded an MBA by Lehigh U. 

FOR BLACK BROTHERS 
Martzell also inquired into state hiring practices and gained previously closed jobs for 950 Negroes in the process. In August, 1967 the Commis­sion was reorganized and Martzell was appointed special counsel to the governor. 
Of progress in Louisiana's struggle for human rights he observes, "In abso­lute terms the progress has been slow and tedious. In relative terms we have made great strides and the decision has been made by the populace that we are all going to live together." 
His optimism is tinged with reserve: "We can at least say that we have made a start and that Governor McKeithen is determined to remedy the problem if the citizens will let him. There is now considerable evidence that the citizens of Louisiana are not only prepared to let him solve the problem but are anxious to help." 
JOHN MURRAY was ordained a priest on 
May 2 and will serve in tlie Archdiocese of Chi­
cago. CHARLES £. OSTENDORF has been 
named gen. mgr. of the Shrcveport, La. installa­
tions of Bailficid Industries, a div. of Automatic 
Sprinkler Corp. of America. 
In October, 1%6 DICK SNIDER married Judy 
McLean of Buffalo and James Joseph was bom 
July 17, 1967. Dick is presently with Sentry Ins. 
as a sales rep. Dick's father passed away in 
February, 1966. 
DONALD J. CERINI left the Navy in 1962 
and went with the Jet Propulsion Lab as a 
research engineer. He completed his MS in A£ 
at Southern Cal last year and is living in Tujunga, 
Calif. (9341 Haines Canyon Ave.) with wife Ruth 
and children, Julie, four and Linda, six. 
Capt. NED MCCARTH Y writes from Wright-
Patterson AFB in Dayton that he and Barbara 
were married in October, 1959 and that they 
hai-e three children, Kevin (Aug. 23. 1960), 
Laura (Aug. 23, 1961), and Cathlccn (Sept. 24, 
1962). The McChrtIi>-5 have been stationed at 
Selma, Ala., San Antonio, Tex., Goose B.-iy, Lab­
rador, Wcsthamplon Beach, L.I., NY, Chicago, 
and now Wright-Patterson. In September. 1967, 
Ned received bis MB.A from the U. of Chicago. 
He has seen BRIAN QUI.N'N, MIKE LEDDEN, 
IRV HERRMANN (and their families), all of 
whom are currently stationed at WPAFB. 
_ JOE HOHL is living in Oak Park, Mich, and 
is in his second year of orthopedic residency at 
Henry Ford Hosp. in Detroit. Joe and Terry 
have three children, Joey, three, Jcffer>', two and 
Melissa, one. Joe's brother, VINCE, '58, is with 
Continental Casually in Philly. 
JOHN H. FITZGERALD has been appointed 
asst. zone mgr. of the Top Value Stamps Birming­
ham zone. He joined TV stamps as an acc't exec. 
in 1962. Prior to this. Jack was with Tc-xaco. Inc. 
in general and merchandise sales. Jack and Peggy 
have two daughters, Cathy, five, and Teresa, one, 
and live at 1500 Linda Vista Drive, Birmingham. 
BILL McCULLOUGH and wife Katie met at Harvard business school which she was also at­tending. The business training didn't help her too much, according to Bill, as they were married within a year after graduating in 1964. Kerri is now two, and William Henry III, ten mnntlis. Bill is working in NYC for International Paper Co, as mgr. of business planning for packaging. WARREN ALBRIGHT is godfather for W. H. Ill, and the AlcCulIoughs sec Warren quite often. 
ED PAULSEN tells Bill that he b moving to Jacksonville, III. and that MARTY WALTER works in the industrial relations dept. for In­temat'l Paper. Bill has talked recently with TOM CARROLL and BARRETT GLEIXNER, and all three are hoping to send for Purdue tickets. This game on Sept. 28, incidentally, will be fol­lowed by our Class reunion in O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Peggy and FRANK REYNOLDS took a trip to San Francisco last October and were joined for a weekend by JOHN LEAHY, who flew up from LA. Peggy writes that the trip was half work and lialf play and bolstered Buddy's energies to aivait the arrival of John Gerard on Dec. 21. He was quite a Christmas present for Jeanne, six, Ke\'in, five, Margaret &Iary, four, and Carol>*n, two. Barb and JOHN FREY, famous Cinti resi­dents, arc getting ready for their No. 5 later this year. 
STEVE DORNBACH, 1900 Princeton Ave., St. Paul, reports the birth of their fourth child, Stephen Timothy, in December and mentions also that he's a sure-fire hurdler. (Coach Wilson, please note.) Steve is in correctional administra­tion work and is active in the Twin Cities Alumni group. 
LARRY WENTZ ("Wenth" to some) sends the Philly report. Larry sees PAT GORMAN (four girls) at LaSalle H.S. reunions. He also gathered BASIL BECK (a real Phillies fan), BOB MUR­PHY, AL.\N REED, DAVE KESTNER and his son (who pinch-bit for MIKE HALPIN, who had a deadline on his thesis for bis 60th degree and couldn't make it) to a Phillies victory over the Giants last August. 
BUTCH REARDON and Maureen spent an evening with the Wentzes (probably all they could take) last summer. Butch is still with McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis. New arrival in Philly is CARLTON (C\RL) REILLY who is with GE at No. 3 Penn Center Plaza, Phila. 19102. Cari has three children and lives in Morrisville, Pa. Lairy and Carl could tell a lot of stories about Zahm Hall days. 
The sympathy of the Class is extended to JOHN DELLA VILLA (death of wife Elaine), to FR.\NK 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

CAHILL (death of his father), and to TOM BRUDER and to Jun '63 and Mike 'ct-'59 (death of their father). 
A reminder: Don't foiget to order tickets for the ND-Putdue game, Sept. 28. Class reunion will follow immediately after the game. 
THOMAS J. O'CONNELL 
3350 EVERETT RD. 
LAKE FOREST. ILL. 6000 

1960 
In Memoriam MARTIN LUTHER KING 1929-1968 "Fire at Last" 

10AA lAUr JOHN A. DI NARDO 
ITWW kMVV 721 HINMAN AVENUE 
EVANSTON, ILLINOIS 60202 L.ARRY WICHMANN writes from Convington, Ky. that he and Carole have been living in that city where Larry has been a solo practitioner since graduation. He and DON GARDNER get together frequently since Don is practicing just across the Ohio River in Cincinnati. 
HUGH McGURE called in while on a Chicago stop-over en route from Detroit to Phoenix for a court hearing. Hugh reports that he and Mary Jane are expecting the arrival of their first child momentarily. 
JOE MARINO u-as in Chicago recently to argue at the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals for the FCC. I had the pleasure of moving for his admission to practice before the Court, and Joe did a cretlitable job in fielding questions from the bench. He reports running into BILL CUSTER and BOB KUHNS in Washington recently. 
Here again is a list of individuals in our Class who haven't been heard from: JIM BEATTIE, JOHN BORGERDING, BILL BORROR, MIKE BOSCO, LARRY BRADLEY (still at ND?) BILL CUSTER, JACK DARCY, DON GARRTTY, GORDY HO, TERRY HOGAN, AL KAELIN, JIM KANE, BOB KUHNS, BOB MANNING, LES MURPHY, POGO REILLY, GENE SALEM, JOHN SLEVIN, JOHN SULLIVAN and PAUL TITUS. Don't you fellows read the ALUMNUS? 
Perhaps some of you arc planning to attend a football game or two this fall. If so, let me know which you will be attending and I will send a letter to all of you before the season starts, letting you all know who will be at each game. 
1961 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 SCRIVO DR. 
WARREN, MICH. 48092 

1QA1 I AU / JOHN N. MORELAND 
•TU I LMVT 5iii/j E, MAIN ST. OTTUMWA, IOWA 52501 
Notice from the Alumni OflGce tells me that WILLIAM J. "SAM" LUFF is now practicing in Reno. His home address a 1905 Arcane Ave. 89503. 
I noticed in the new issue of the legal directory or the ND "Layf Association that all but one mem­ber of our Class was a member of the Association. I am sure it would be gratifying to the directois if we could make it 100 percent next year. 
In view of the record three issues jn a row ia which this column has appeared, I would appre­ciate hearing from as many of you as possible. 
Attention T. L. Shaffer: Then there was the story about a lawyer, when asked by the Judge why he hadn*t closed an estate which had been open for 17 years, who replied, "I didn't want to be accused of being impetuous." 
1962 
H. JAMES KRAUSER 8301 GARFIELD STREET 
BETHESDA, MARYLAND 20034 

Please note my new address. My wife Merrily, daughter Tracy and I have moved into our new Bcthcsda home and welcome any of you who happen into the Washington area. 
Speaking of new addresses, the Alumni Office periodically sends me many location changes re­garding members of our Class. Although most of these reports are sketchy, I will attempt to high­light a few in this issue in the hope that you might find a former classmate living in your general area. 
AL GEMPULI is now living in Jackson, Miss. LARRY WOPAT is stationed at Langley AFB, Va. JIM BLAIR lives in Washington, DC. Dr. JOE EGAN is practicing in Brooklyn. DAVE SHEPLEY calls Brook Park, Ohio his home. FRANK OWENS is with the school of mathematics at the U. of Minnesota. WALTER HILL is abroad in England in Harrogate, Yorkshire. TOM MILLER is in Waterloo, Iowa where classmate TOM McG.ARVY is practicing medicine. STEVE WEIDNER will soon join both of them as soon as Steve completes his military obUgation. MARK HERMANN lives In Greensburg, Ind. right off the turnpike. BILL 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
CHOQUETTE has a new address of Wcsgauge Beach, Narragansett, RI. DOUG DRANE can be reached at Box 8, Bedford, Mass. PAUL PAN­THER has moved from Kansas City to Hammond, Ind. 
DON BOIVIN has made a cross-comitrr trek from Cohoes, NY to Wahiut Creek, Calif. Dr-TOM GETTELFINGER is now practicing in Long Beach, Calif. JOE MOHLENKAMP now lives at 2163 Roosevelt Ave., Cincinnati. DICK SAUER is doing biomedical research with NASA in Hous* ton. DICK BOEMER is in Milwaukee along with JI&f RHODES. LES TRAVER has a new address at 1920 Jefferson Ave., Toledo. RALPH DAMORE moved from St. Louis to Lackawanna, N.Y. JOHN HARTY somehow has found himself in the Nether­lands. Hb address is Dombuiglaan 70, The Hague. DAN KRALIK lives in Tacoma after being a school principal in New Baltimore, Mich. Anally FRANK OBERKOETTER is now at the Mary-knoll seminary in Hingham, Mass. 
News from the yellow cards: BOB BIOLCHINI, wife Fran and son Bobby have completed a two-year .Army tour in Germany and now are settled in Tulsa where Bob is with the law firm of Doerner, Stuart, ^foreland, Saunders and Daniel, a coiporate and commercial firm. PIERRE HIROU has joined the investment banking and brokerage firm of Kidder, Peabody Co. as a registered rep. in their Los Angeles regional office. TOM NOO> NAN has joined Eli Lilly and Co. as a sales rep. in Seattle. TOM McMURRAY is part owner of the Spring Valley Gazette, Spring Valley, NY. Capt. JOHN ROOT is stationed in Vietnam and has a new address: Adv. Team No. 22, APO SF 96238. I know John would enjoy hearing trtaa some of his former classmates. 
TOM BULL has accepted a job as an employee 
relations specialist with the state of Wisconsin in 
Kladison. Tom will be with the bureau of personnel 
of the State Dept. of Administration. PETER 
DIERKS has returned to ND to work on a PhD 
in electrical engineering. ROGER BREKKEN has 
his MS and PhD in chemical eng. from Iowa 
State and is now working for 3M. 
BOB GALDABINI has been promoted to mai^ 
keting rep. for the Afobil Oil Corp, in Fremont, 
Calif. CHARLIE AUGUSTINE has just returned 
from Southeast Asia and is now stationed at Sawyer 
AFB, Mich, where he is an aircraft commander 
with SAC. Augie's new address is 521 Jupiter St., 
K.I. Sawyer AFB, Mich. DAVE MENZIE wiU complete his first year of law school at the U. of Kansas. Dave previously worked for Hartford Life in San Francisco and LA. His new address is 430 Oakflale, Manhattan, Kan. 
Capt. VINCENT P. MICUCCI was awarded a 
plaque for being "Outstanding Junior Officer of 
the Year" in the 15th Air Force. Vinnie was ated 
for his outstanding record as an engineer asagned 
to the 9th Test and Evaluation Div. PETE 
SCHNEID graduated from the U. of Michigan 
law school in 1965. He is engaged to Kit Fahike 
and will be married in September. JIM FOR­
STOSS graduated from St. Louis U. med. school In 
June, 1967 and is now interning at Afilwaukee 
General. Jim married the former Barbara Ncilon 
of Dallas and they have a daughter. 
CH.ARLIE DiGIOVANNA is now an asst. cor­
porate director for the Penn Fruit Co. in Phila­
delphia. His new address is 516 Tea Rose Lane, 
Cherry Hill, NJ. JOHN SCHNAUBELT is sta­
tioned at Wright-Patterson AFB, Dayton. John and 
wife Beth have two boys. He reports that JACK 
STEFFENS visited recently. Jack is also in the 
air force at Travis, Calif. 
The sympathy of our entire class is extended to KUKE SANDERSON upon the death of his father. My apologies to KARL ROESLER for filing to get together with him during recent buuness trip to Washington; the ilu bug hit our family while he was here. Finally TOM JORUNG just stuck his head in the door and told me that PAUL CROTTY just became the father of a baby boy, John Austin. Riul and wife Jane live in NYC where Paul is clerking for the district court, south* em district of NY. Looking forward to seeing you, Paul, this fall in Philly for the Navy game. Ptaul has been famous for his ^'Buffalo Stomps," pex^ formed in the main ball room of the Ben Franklin Hotel. 
Where are you, ALES KRISTINE and MARTY McDERMOTT? 
10AO I AU# PAUL K. ROONEY I yOA LM¥V U.S. COURTHOUSE 
FOLEY SO. 

NEW YO^, N.Y. 10007 In April FELIX AIACISZEWSKI interrupted his business trip to the East and dropped in for a visit. He related that after graduation he joined the National Guard and scr\-cd his six months "actrve," looe tmsbefl amm at A* U. «f Cofccado IblfcMAeiL 
Tliereafter "Mac" took a gSaat Hep fraa tlw »wa^«la»wl to the 50tli state where he coMBeaccd his legal career by cleiluBg lor a federal jnd|pe. Now, he's associated with the HoBofada fiim of. Henshaw, Gimioy ft Bamihoa. "Mac^ aad Cimmr have two giifa, CoOeca (2) and Teroa (1) aad live in Kmhia, a snburfa ojf HoooUn. TdSat and that be sees ED MALAFTT on occaani, tfao* .mat too often, since Ed "fives oat in A e ooaatry.** 
Fefix abo coofinned diat RAY BSOWN 3i pcactiong sn ncscott, Anaona. 
1963 
FKANK P. DKELLO 
218 PALMES HILL ID . OLD GUENWICH. CiQNir. fICnt 

DON WISNER is m the Anqr as a eapbon, ierai« as a judge advocate at Foct Kna^er, Ab. HAL SUNDERMANN was mairied in Ifarefa in Cincin­nati, xxm after hii ictnni bu n Anny tear in Tlianand. He and «rife Lynn are prasentlr m Lame), Md. Hal is stationed at Ft. Uode . BHX VASU and Marihe Tltercse Hnyot weie maiiied ia New Yoric last iaU. 
DICK FEPUNSKI has lecmed a FU) bom ND and is prescntlr with American Oil in Whit­ing, Ind. TOM LONGEWAY and wife a n Erins in Chicago with their daughter, Jeanine. Tom is account rep. for Yardley of London in the Qucago maAeU Capt. EDWAKD MAKCATO is seTvii« with the lOlh Tactical Fighter Sqoadion in Gennanr. F. THOMAS FAKRELL lecened a PhD in math bom Yale in June, 1967 and is now on the Yale faculty, dept. of math. Lt. PATRICK 
J: BRENNAN is now in Gennanr "ith his wile Carolyn and thdr daughter, Jenidfcr Ann. Vnor to recdving a commisBOn in June, 1967,. Rit earned an MA in education at DeKalb. 
DONALD RYAN, wife Marion and dai^ter Marion have xctunied to Evanston, HI. Don is woiUng for HL Belt JIM ANTHONY is with the 1st Air Cavalry in Vietnam serving as a jodge advocate. He b doe to xetum to the States and an assignment at the JAG sdtool in Charlottesville, Va. July 15. His replacement with the 1st Air Cay. will he none other than yours truly. 
DAVID M. KENNEDY has been appointed (Erector of pragrams and sales for Tiant-Worid Enterprises Inc., NYC The company is the pn^ ducer and pacbiger of "Big Three GoU" oa NBC; "The Grand FHs of Skfing" on NBC; "Arnold PabacT Golf Tips" and "The US Against the World," a golf series seen on the BBC and the Tokyo Bitndcasting System. Kennedy has been oooidinator of sports for NBC for the past five yeais, during which time he was in charge of sales, research and program development fmc the sports dept., and has abo psuduteJ varioos NBC spedals. He is a bachelor and lives in Manhattan. 
MICHAEL L. GARRETT has been named traffic mgr. in the Crawfordsville district oSioe of Infiana Bdl Telephone Co. Capt. JOHN F. WALKER JR (USMC) has been decorated with the Bronre Star for operations against the Viet Cong. He is now an OCS instructor at Qnantico^ Va. DONALD F. McMH.T.EN received his I M from Stanford in cheinistry and is now on active duty in Washington, DC with the Aimy. 
Capt. ROBERT B. IRVINE JR is stationed at Offutt AFB, Neb. Pvt. STEPHEN C KNUP (USA) has ccmplrtfd advanced infantry at Fort Dix, NJ . THOMAS A. NEDDY has been pro­moted to captain in the USAF. JOHN P. MACKIE has been appointed profex^onal sales rep. for Pfizer Labs. JOSEPH M. MORABITO JR has received his FhO ia metallurgy at the U. of IVnnsylvania, and is on the teseatch staff at BcAeley. EDWARD G. CRIMP (USAF—1st Lt.) has been decorated with the Distinguiahed Flpng Crass and 11 air medals for actiim in Southeast Asia. Lt. Crump flew four defense luppstsiiuo missicms in support of friendly aircraft near Hanoi in spite of intense surface-to-air missiles and anti­aircraft artillery fire. He is being aiugned to Ricbards-Gebaur AFB, Md., for doty with the Air Defense Command. 
WILLIAM C JORDAN JR, is irith TWA in NYC at 605 Third Ave. MARIO A. CINQUINO has been commissioned a 2nd Lt. in die USAF at Lackland AFB, Tex. Dr. JOHN F. KWINN, MA '64 is now serving in Vietnam as med. oficer. AXEL JEAN COGELS hlA '6t writes bom Stockhofaa that he recdved the degree of Sdende' ea Scientts Fbfitlpuer et Sodales faom the Catholic U. of Louvain in 1966 and has just fintdird mifitary aep* vice as a 2nd Lt. in the tank cotps, and now plans to woric with ftocter and Gamhle Benehat ia Belipnm. His new address is F. Ave. Jcaa Stais (An>t. IVG) Louvain, Bd^um. 
PHILIP WARREN SKWIOT recently ncoved 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
Robert E Schiosser '50 has been 
tapped for the job of director of the professional development division of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The division plans, pre­pares and delivers professional develop­ment programs for CPAs to assist the Institute's 62,000 members in improv­ing their professional competence. He comes to the position from the chair­manship of the department of financial accounting at the State U. of New York at Buffalo. 
William G. Greif '51L has been ap­pointed vice-president of the new Wash­ington office of the Bristol-Myers Go. He comes to the position from the vice-presidency of Mead-Johnson which merged with Bristol-Myers in Decem­ber, 1967. 
Robert C Butler '52 has been elected vice-president and controller of Inter-chemical Corp. for whom he was pre­xiously director of planning for the divisions. Butler came to Interchemical Corp. after serving as vice-president and treasurer of Isotopes Inc. 
Dr. James J. Cannon Jr. '54 has been elected to the board of directors and appointed treasurer of VI.^TRON Computer Systems Corp. of Burling­ton, Mass. VIATPvON is a new com­pany engaged in development of com­puter products and systems for commer­cial use. 
Henry Frawley Jr '60 has been named 
Outstanding Young Farmer of the year 
by the Deadwood, SD, Jaycees. Frawley 
was also chosen as one of the three 
most outstanding young farmers or 
ranchers in South Dakota by the SD 
Jaycees and the SD Bankers Assoc. He 
is manager of the family ranching en­
terprise and was recognized for his 
accomplishments in soil and water con­
servation and in the crossbreeding of 
cattle. 
an MBA at Western Micliigan U. Coast Guard Lt. (jg.) THEODORE M. NUTTING has been awarded tlie Secretary ol Transportation Com­mendation for Achievement Medal. He is currently ser\ing as the deputy group commander of Coast Guard Group, Buffalo, NY. The citation was for his outstanding pcrfonnancc of duty while serving as division supply and repair coordinator in Viet­nam from September 1966 to April 1967. He entered the service in September 1964. 
The Class Reunion is sclieduled for June 7, 8, 
9. Word has it that many fellows are coming back. Your Class officers have been planning an active weekend. Sometime around then, I'll be turning this coltmm over to a new member of our Class. To all of you, classmates, wives, mothers, fathers who have taken the time to Amte and send news, my sincere thanks. 
196 3 LAW J^^^^^-^- SULLIVAN 
1526 E. CEDAR ST. SOUTH BEND. IND. 46617 
SCHLOSSER '50 GREIF 'Sit 
BUTLER '52 CANNON '54 
FRAWLEY '60 GROJEAN '60 
Thomas F. Grojean '60 ^ ^ been an­nounced as the new vice-president of finance of the Flying Tiger Lme. He comes to Flying Tiger from the position of treasurer and chief financial officer of Southern Airways Inc. 
 STEPHENS 
noo CLOVE RD., NO. 5-C 
STATEN ISLAND, NY 10301 
1964 CLAY 
BOB SINGEWALD is practidng bw in Wnton, Conn, with the finn of Sibal, Heffeman and Rimer. He graduated from George Washington U. law school with honors. Another new member of the bar is JOHN NARMONT who is with the firm of Giffin, Winning, Lidner and Ncwldik in Spring­field, 111. John graduated from Illinois U, 
ROGER FOLEY, his wife and new daughter Bridget arc living in Snoqualmie Falb, Wash. where he is employed by Wcycrhauser Co. Roger received his AIBA from the U. of Califomia and is wotking in the financial area. 
FRANCIS S. JUDA has been graduated from the Air University's squadron officer school at Maxwell AFB (Ala.). He is being reassigned to Minot AFB (N.D.) as a &Iinutcman misale launch officer. 

Ne^« from Aberdeen Proving Ground (Md.)— 
ROBERT G. KLAUSNER has completed an 
ordnance officer basic course. 
From Due Pho, Vietnam (AHTNC), Army 2nd 
Lt. ARTHUR J. DUNN recently arrived i«th the 
American div.'s 11th Light Infantry Brigade. He 
received extensive jungle training in Hawaii before 
assignment to combat against the enemy. 
SERGIO CATANI is production manager oF 
LaDelicias—a large candy manufacturer. JOHN 
J. McCABE JR recently graduated magna cum laude from the U. of San Diego law sclmnl. JA&IES P. BLUM (Lt. j.g.) b scning on USS Tom Green County LST 1159 nouT in the area around Vietnam. 
GENE DE AGOSTINO passed the Michigan bar 
last fall and practices with the firm of Kcnnc>-, 
Kenney, Cliapman and Prather in Detroit. Gene 
graduated from U. of Detroit law school and 
woiked part time for \'arious law firms during the 
three years. 
PAUL FITZGERALD graduated from Tufts 
dental school and received the a^vard of the 
American Academy oC General Dentistry. He is 
presently stationed in Okinawa and his wife 
Kathleen and two sons are with him. 
THOMAS J. WICH has been commissioned a 
2nd Lt. in the USAF at Lackland AFB (Tcx.). 
DENNIS J. PHILLIPS has been appointed broker­
age consultant at the Pittsburgh brokerage office 
of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. 
CLARENCE H. LOEBACH JR has been award­
ed his silver wings upon graduation from USAF 
naWgator training at Mather AFB (Calif.). 
CHARLES W. BLANCHARD recendy received 
an MBA from Ohio State. U. 
WILLIAM J. O'CONNOR has been promoted 
to asst. mgr. in the central credit div. of ^larine 
Midland Trust Co. of western New York. 
PETER BROCCOLETTI graduated from William 
and Mary law school this year, and has been ap­
pointed legal aid attorney for Norfolk and Ports­
mouth, Va. RICHARD F. RUSSELL has arrived 
for duty at Tachikawa AB (Japan). He previously 
ser\cd at Takhli Royal Thai AFB (Thailand). 
DICK YASHEWSKI and BOB CORRAO are 
brokers for Edwards and Hanly in NYC. Both 
completed two years of Army service prior to 
joining the firm. Bob also graduated from UCI^A 
mth an MBA. 
DENNIS LE JUENE is working for Harris 
Trust in Chicago, specializing in international 
finance. He is attending Northwestern business 
school at night. He and his wife Barbara have a 
daughter, Angela Marie. 
MICHAEL J. WALUSIS has been appointed an 
instructor of art at Youngstown State U., Ohio. 
He received his master's there in June. 
&flCH.\£L SMITH is involved in training for foreign assignment in the Peace Corps. He recently completed the Peace Corps course in San Francisco and has been assigned to Monrovia, Liberia. His responsibilities will include training Libertan per­sonnel in modem techniques of administration. 
Dr. SAMUEL TREVINO is a guest scientist in physics at the Army's materials and mechanics re­search center, Watertown, Mass. TOM SCHROE­DER spent two years in the Navy as a supply officer and is now worlung in Connecticut as a system analyst for Pratt and Whitney Aircraft. He is married to the former Kathleen Kennedy and they have two sons. JIM O'HAILA is at the business sdiool of Washington U. in St. Louis. He was released from the Army as a Captain (Intcl­figence) last December. 
On July 9. 1966, LANCE BABST married Karyl Kuebd (Loyola—'66) and they now have a baby girl named Mary Leigh (bom June 5, 1967). He graduated from Tulane school of law in May, 1967 and was admitted to the practice of law in August. He is associated with the law firm of Bienvenu and Culver in New Orleans. 
ALBERT (CHIP) CARPEIVTER is in Vietnam filing the "A-6" for the Marines. He is now a Captain and functions as navigator. ALFRED (FREDDY) FREY finished the two-year stretch in the Navy and is now getting his master's at Georgia Tech. He is married and has one son. 
JOSEPH (JOE) LaNASA is completing his fourth year in medicine at L.S-U. LEON REY­MOND married Terry Failla July 30, 1966; and they have one girl. He finished his stretch in the Navy and is presently attending L-S.U. school of law. 
JERRY and JOHN BRADLEY are both officers in the Navy. Jerry is with the destroyer Cliarles R. Ware and just returned from the Gulf of Tonkin after a rix-month duty period there. John is on the carrier U.S.S. Coral Sea and is now in the Gulf of Tonkin. Jerry is back in the home port of Mayport, Fla. after stops In Pearl Harbor, San 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

Francisco, Acapulco and Talcria, Peru. 
JOHN AYLOR, his. wife Mary Louise and tvA> 
children are living in Kfaryland. Their address is 
8710 AUentown Rd.. Oxon HUI. John received his 
MBA from American U. and is now a partner in 
John O. Aylor and Son—Builders. He is presently 
busy constructing a 300 home subdivisioa in a DC 
suburb. 
DAVID KOSTOTANSKY is asst. mechanical 
engineer for Union Railroad Co. in Donora, Fenn. 
He and lus Vfife Marge have two sons. JAMES 
NUSRALA wiil be graduating from Washington 
U. school of medicine in June, 1968. He was married last December to Mary Ann Buckley. 
BILL GEARY has received his lilBA from De 
Paul and is now at Navy DCS in Newport. JACK 
NOON is living and working in Rochester. He and 
his wife Nancy have two cliildrcn. He works for 
Rochester Gas and Electric and attends business 
scliool at the university. 
PHILIP FAHERTY has passed the New Jersey 
bar exam after graduating from Villanova school 
of law. He and his wife Pat have a son, Philip IV. 
JACK MILLER is living in Milwaukee and is with 
AVTMJ-TV, producing and \**riting news shows. 
He spent tlic two years following graduation work­
ing for WNDU-TV on campus. 
BILL PH.\LANO is a Lt. (jg) in the Navy and 
Hies transports out of Alameda Naval Air Station 
ni-ar San Francisco. 
The activities of HERB BLOCK lend a refresh­ing note to the round of career, service and educa­tion notes. After two years in the Army and an MBA from U. of Michigan he is traveling around the world with the help of a 40 lb. back pack. His current whereabouts are India and Nepal and he plans to travel for about a year before returning to the US and settling down with Northwestern >IutuaI Life Insurance Co. in Ann Arbor. 
lOA^ lAU/ THOMAS F. CONNEELY I TO** LA W ONE NORTH LASALLE ST. SUITE 701 CHICAGO, ILL. 60G02 
The deadline for this column was nearly past when the following information arrived in a veritable deluge. The Houghton, Mich, ftim of Messner & LaBtne announces that GERALD G. VAIRO has become a partner and the firm name is now Xfessner, LaBine & Vairo. Congratulations, Jerry! JACK JIGAX n passed that word along and also told us of his new association with the Chicago firm of Harris, Burman & Silcts at 7 S. Dearborn in the \Vindy City. 
Jack and Jerry correspond frequently and oc­casionally Jack and Pat journey to the far north­land to visit Jerry and Claudette. Within the past year Jeny was appointed to represent an indigent couple who were charged with murdering their child. The charges were dropped after some brilliant motions to suppress were presented by able defense counsel. 
Jack abo reports that Jerry's firm docs most of the personal injury defense work in the area and Jerry is kept busy holding plaintiffs at bay. Jack's new firm specializes in federal income tax work and docs a good deal of trial work in that field. 
About March 27, I chanced upon BILL FLAHERTY in the courthouse and during our conversation he mentioned that in a couple of days he and some friends were flying to Aspen for a bit of skiing. Being a nonskier up to that point. Bill announced that he would take some lessons and then probably spend most of his time in front of the lodge fireplace with a cast on his leg. And he did. Well, almost. He spent all but two days (the first two!) in the hospital \vith a cast on his leg. The breaJB started to go against him on April I. Bill, there may be a message there. 
All this was brought to your scribe's attention by RUSS BLEY and GENE KRAMER who lunched with the Conneelys during a visit to Chicago. 
When our luncheon meeting adjourned, we visited BILL in his bachelor pad at Sandbui^ Village. He has a nifty phce, replete with piano and a magnificent view of Lincoln Park and Lake Michigan. His prowess wth crutches is improving and he sends his greetings to all. Drop in the neighborhood—he can use some help with the cooking and shopping. 
Russ is still with Monsanto in St. Louis and is still single. He does a bit of traveling for the company and is also active on the home front ha\^ng had a part in Webster Col.'s recent secular­ization. Russ drafted the documents that went to Rome to accomplish the changeover. 
Gene does a bit of drafting now and then also. He is still with the Cleveland firm of Squire, Sanders & Dcmpsey and he reports that althot ^ his duties there keep him fairly busy he fills in hts Sparc time as law director (city attorney) of the Cleveland suburb of Willowick (Fbp. 23,000). There is a pet problem in Willowidc and Gene is presently drafting an ordinance regulating the axe of .pets of the family reptilia. Boa, Gene, that sounds like quite a project! 
JOHN HENRY LEAHY writes about a pet problem, too: *'I was forced to stop at the main intersection of our newly incorporated city of Carson here in metropoUtan LA Co. to let a rooster and three chickens cross the road. The intersection is right across from the ofiGce." How about it classmates, can you top that? John hopes to get to Chicago in July for Northwcstem's criminal law seminar. 
In five of the eleven columns I've written I've had at least one birth announcement to mention. Thanks to the fine cooperation of LARRY and Betty GALLICK 1 can now say that there has been at least one birth to announce in 50% of the columns. In this twelfth edition we welcome Helen Patricia Gallick who arrived on April 3. Warm congratulations to Larry and Betty! 
Don't forget to plan on the third annual Class of '64 legal seminar to be held during the I^lrdne game (Sept. 28). Check my last column for details or write to TOM KERN, 1410 Stevens, India­napolis, Ind. 46227. Happy summer! 
 P. HARNISCH Apt. B 
863 E. GRANVILLE RD. COLUMBUS. OHIO 43224 

1965 
JAMES 
PHIL BALDWIN has left his pontion as ftaff rescareh chemist with Goodyear and is now m technical sales rep. with JefTeison Chemical Co.. Houston. CARL SORRENTINO was married in February to Susan Bothe of Fond du Lac, Wis. Carl is serving as an air intelligence officer at Eglin AFB (Fla.). 
MIKE HAGGERTY is spending the summer in Wisconsin at Camp McCoy as sports editor for the Army's post ne»-spaper and SEAN FITZMAURICE was traded from the NY Mels to the Pituburgh Pirates. 
If you have a copy, dig out the January issue of Playboy and observe LARRY WIND in action on pages 132-133. JOHN BLASI %vas married ia September to Nancy Jean CuHen (Mundelein College) and is now practicing law in Chicago after iiaving passed the Illinois bar exam. 
Lt. CHARLES CONTINO has been transferred to Mannheim to work as staff maintenance officer for the Central Army Group (NATO). His main job is supervision of maintenance of English, French, German and American vehicles. 
After completing his Vietnam tour with the Navy BILL HAFEL accepted a position with link group of General Precision Systems, Inc. in Sunnyvale, Calif. In December Bill was married to Linda Afaric Looman in San Francisco. 
Lt. GARY PAQUIN has also recently completed Navy duty in Vietnam and is now assigned to White House Liaison, office of the Secretary of the Navy, Pentagon. Gary and wife Gretchen are living in Alexandria, Va. MIKE HIETZMANN is stationed at Fitzimnians Hosp. as a cliniral psychologist. 
JOHN HOWARD was married m October to Patricia J. Haworth of Chicago and is now stationed at Quantico with the Marine Corps. Capt. PETER VINSON is enjoying his duty with the Army in Munich. In addition to attending % German language school he has managed a few sight-seeing and skiing trips. 
Lt. DAN DUFFY is in Vietnam waters again. This time Dan is serving as a radar intercept officer in a fighter squadron aboard the USS Enterprise. He ^vrites that BIFF BAKER is run­ning the TV station on the USS Kittyhawk and HARRY BISHOP is busy inspecting lovely ladies at the Marine Corps Officers' Club in San Diego while aAvaiting transfer orders. 
PETE LEIDLEIN is working for the Wyoming, Mich, highway and city planning office and JOHN HENRY KELLER is in Newark working in chemical sales for Cclanese. Lt. PETE CULLEN is serving aboard the Ticonderoga in Vietnam waters. 
Lt. PAUL RAY and wife Mary Ann are the proud parents of a baby boy, Paul Jr., bom last February. Paul is still stationed in the spedal projects office, Washington, DC building Folaiis missiles. 
MIKE READ graduated from Loyola (New Orleans) law school in May and was elected to membeiship in Blue Key national honor fraternity. BOB SIRNA was presented with a baby girl, Michcle Lee, last November by wife GaiL Bob is 
wnting in Midland, BCcb. for IBM nAere Iw h 
»iiignrd to the Dow Chrmjeal Co. sales team. 
Another pftnd ialher as of last Novemiicr is JOHN KLUDING whose irile Sunn gave KxA to a baby gisL John is Evias in Mobeilr, lln . where he is in charge of the leicaich and develop ment kitchen for Banquet boxtn foods. 
BOB LEGGAT has graduated from U. of Vit^nia b w school and 2nd Lt. JD I STOLZE a praently stationed at Ft. Riley (Kan.) as an ordnance officer. Jim recdved his MBA at the U. of Michigan prior to entering the Anny last July. 
1st Lt. NEIL MCDONALD began his third year in the Army as a dvil affairs advisor in Long Binh, Vietnam. Neil was commissioned in adjutant general corps last January from the OGS infuitry school and has been asugncd to Ft.' Bragg (NO) since last March. 
After an Army toor in Vietnam BILL DICKSON h now worting on his MBA at the U. of Mich^an. 
MIKE CONNIFF was presented with a baby giri, KeDie Marie, by wife Diane last Jannaiy. Mike is at the Detroit CoL of law. BOB GIL-MARll N was married last December to Ramona Lynne Wilson and has moved to Little Kock, Ark. where he has taken a job with UPI. Bob has had the opportimity to cover several major news events. JOHN DUNN win graduate from George Wash­ington U. law school in July and has been awarded a fellowship for the practice of legal representation of the poor. After a short training course in poverty law, he will begin work for tlie legal service pro­gram for the poor in New Mexico. BILL DUN N and wife Valerie had a daughter, Jennifer, in April, 1967. Bill is wooing as product design head at Quaker Industries, Inc. in Antioch, H L and is active in his parish teen education and sodal programs. 
STEVE ANELLA has completed two years with the Army engineer corps and is now working for an architectural ei^ineering firm in South Bend. Steve and wife Louise (Habell SMC '64) have two daughters: Janine (2!4) and Christin (V/iU JERRY SWIACKI was elected pres. of the student council of Chicago College of Osteopathy and JIM HEMPHILL has received both an MBA from U. of Chicago and a £iect commission into the adju­tant general's corps. Jim is serving at Fort Sill, OUa. 1st Lt. JDf ZOELLER is an armored cavalry platoon leader with the 5th Armored Cavalry, 9th Infantry Div. in Vietnam. Jim's OCS dassmate, BILL PIEDMONT, is stationed at Fort Hood, Tex. 2nd Lt. JIM ZE.NZINGER received an MBA from Arizona U. last year and is now stationed at Norton AFB, San Ber­nardino, Calif., as a transportation officer. 
10AC I AUf JOBS A. BAUTEK 
IT03 IMVI loso INDIANA AVE. GUENwooD, nx . 6oes 
1966 
nCHARD ANGELOm 8640 SOUTH 86TH AVE., AST. 203 
JUSTICE, nx . fi0458 

Wen, here we are two years after graduation! Does it seem possible? I personally can't believe bow quickly the time has gone by since the day we became Alumni. 1 hope these past two years have been eventful and enjoyable for aU of you. The accomplishments of our Class members in these 24 months have been most creditable. 
One of our Class's most praiseworthy achievements has been in its contributioDS to the armed services. In past articles, the majority of lines written have been describing classmates in the service. I stin have not included everyone yet and I %vould now like to mention some of these students. JASAES F. RADIGAN JR and DONALD SAPIENZA were cormnissioncd Army 2nd Lts. after graduating from the infantry OCS at Ft. Betming, 
JOHN J. CROWLEY JR was commissioned an Army 2nd Lt. on completion of the quartermaster OCS at Ft. Lee. DAVm GUIDO was also com­missioned after compledon of OCS at Aberdeen Hroving Grounds. Army National Guard Pvt. GEORGE J. SCHAEFER completed eight weeks of advanced training in July at Ft. Dix. CHARLES 
A. STRUCKHOLTZ, JEROME H. BUKIEWICZ and JAMES A. THROGMORTON were com­misuoned Army 2nd Lts. upon graduation from OCS at Ft. Knox. 
Lt. JOSEPH E. JANSEN has graduated bom She^rd AFB in accoimtii^ and finance. He was assigned to Holloman AFB, NM to becotne a member of the AF systems command which develops sdentific concepts and operationa] systems such as new aircraft, missiles and space boosters and operates launching, tracking and recovery iadE­ties for the nation's many space programs. ROB­ERT D. LUETKEMEYER has graduated with 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
' i<'5 » 5 

SHIVERING SEISMOLOGIST AT THE BIRD STATION 
T
IRED OF your job? Feel the need for 
a change? How about a year in Ant­
arctica? That's what Albert Buennagel 
'65 chose, but he's not on vacation. 
After graduation he went to the U. of 
Maryland for doctoral work in physics 
but eye and pocketbook strain took their 
toll and Albert applied to the National 
Science Foundation for seismology work 
at the Byrd Station in Antarctica. 
He trained in Maryland, Virginia and New Me-vico from July until No­vember and then set off for the great snow lands. 
Arrival is timed for the Antarctic's "summer" which runs from October until February. In this period the sun never really sets but after February it is dark almost constantly and the tem­perature levels out at —110°. 
Albert is chief of seismological opera­tions at the post and he and his assist­ant are currently studying tremors which affect the western US. The work keeps him busy constantly and he has yet to find time for the pile of reading material he took along. 
Albert will be there one year, which is both the minimum and maximum tour of duty. Planes come and go only during summer and the men have no outside contact except "ham" radio for the major part of the year. 
.•\round the post, travel is mostly by foot through tunnels carved from the snow which is dumped on the polar cap each season. The tunnels connect the various buildings which make up the station. Even in the passageways, which are sheltered from the wind, the tem­perature is —20° and the men put on their required 15 pounds of outer wear to traverse them. On the wall of the mess hall hangs a grim reminder to dress warmly—the coat of a man who went out without it and was never seen again. 
Albert and the others are well pro­vided for to ease the strain of confine­ment at the station. There is a 20-year supply of food and plenty of beer. Drinking water is piped down from a snow pile melted atop the generators which heat and light the station. 
The men take good care of them­selves but occasional accidents do occur and Albert was victim of one. April 1 he lost portions of three fingers while working on a snowmobile. Luckily there is good medical attention available and he is now able to attend to his duties around the station. 
The men provide their own enter­tainment and to welcome in 1968 they had a gala all-male New Year's Eve party with decorations and the works. 
However, all the parties in the world can't completely relieve the strain of a year on ice and, though Albert is en­joying the post he says, "One year's enough." Come "summer" he'll be back. 
honors from the USAF mechanical training school 
at Shcpard. 
Lt. MMES J. MONG completed a 16-wcck 
helicopter pilot course at the Army primary licli­
copter school. Ft. Wolters, Tex. He is now under­
going adv'anced flight training at the Army a\*iation 
school. FRANK D. DUNCAN and CHARLES W. 
DUFFY JR were commissioned Army 2nd Xts. upon 
completion of the engineer OCS at Ft. Belvoir, Va. 
Frank was named a distinguished military graduate 
and offered a commission in the regular Anny. 
Lt. THOMAS F. BURKE JR has been graduated 
from the training course at Tyndall AFB, Fla. for 
the USAF weapons controllers. He was assigned to 
Ellington, AFB (Tex.) to become a member of the 
Air Defense Command which is the .Air Force 
component of the US-Canadian North .American 
Air Defense Command protecting the condncnt. 
Army Lt. Col. DOMINIC T. ARCURI began the 
10-month regular course at the Array Command 
and General Staff Col., Ft. Leavenworth. 
Army pvt. ALEX C. BONVECHIO completed 
an eight-week administration course in September 
at Ft. Leonard Wood. Lt. REGIS J. .AMANN has 
been awarded silver wings upon graduation from 
US.AF navigator training at Mather AFB (Calif.) 
He was assigned to Traiis AFB, Calif, for flying 
duty on the C-141 Starlifter with the Military 
Airlift Command which provides strategic airlift 
for dcplo>inent of US forces world-wide. 
LAWRENCE HOUDEK who was recently en­
gaged, is stationed at Fort Polk, La. THOMAS M. 
BEALL is in Vietnam serving with the 513th 
Engineers. JOSEPH A. FANELLI is a rifleman in 
Korea. ALBERT M. McGOVERN JR. has been 
commissioned a 2nd Lt. in the US.AF upon 
graduation from OTS at Lackland .AFB. He was 
assigned to Shepard AFB for training as a data 
automation officer. HARRY G. P.ARKIN was 
commissioned an Army 2nd Lt. after OCS at Ft. 
Benning. 
An excellent military thrill was had by MIKE 
BOONE. Mike received Lt's bars worn during WW 
U by his father in a ceremony which took place 
in Boeblingen, Germany. His father received the 
bars about the time Mike was bom. Mike is 
telephone operations platoon at the Seventh .Army 
Support Command which provides supplies and 
services to combat-ready troops who safeguard 
against aggression in the central sector of the 
NATO Shield of Defense. Mike's wife Sheila 
presented him with a baby daughter, Kathleen, 
while they were in Germany. 
STEVE KELLY, stationed at Keeslcr .AFB, Miss., 
is also the head of a service family of three. 
DAVE MARTI.N and BOB SCHiHTT got their 
wdngs in September and ate now in South Carolina 
and North Carolina, respectively. M.\RTY BRU­
ECKNER b currendy the industrial relations officer 
for the Third Marine Division I%u Bai, Victn.im. 
BILL ST. PAUL JR writes a most informative 
and fascinating letter from Vietnam describing 
what conditions are like over there. Bill is an Air 
Force pilot and has already logged over 200 combat 
hours and earned two medals. BOB B.ASCHE aUo 
writes from South Vietnam where he is completing 
a six-month deplojinent. The trip to Vietnam 
followed a Pearl Harbor duty for Bob. Bob tells us 
that classmate BRIAN BOYCE is also over in 
Vietnam on the carrier Hornet. 
MIKE MURPHY is pbnning a South Bend wedding in June. Mike is employed by Republic Steel Corp. in Chicago as a staff asst. in the industrial relations dcpt. TOM NEWTON, who is working as a teacher in the business dept. of Ncwburgh Free Academy, is the proud father of a boy whom he says Ara is already calling. BILL HULL was married last May and, after a hone>'­moon in Barbados, went to work for T^VA in Columbus as a management trainee. 
JOHN McCUEN, another recent father, is working for Kelsey-Hayes Co. in Detroit as a buyer while attending U. of Detroit law school. LeVAN REBER, married since our junior year, recendy became a father for the second time. He is a sales engineer with Armco Steel in Detroit. DAN DENVER a employed by Westinghousc Bettis Atomic Labs after receiving his MS from MIT. He b also participating in the doctoral pro­gram for Wesdnghouse and attending Carnegie Tech. He and his lovely wife Alaurcen recently ptirchascd a new home eqiupped with swimming pool. 
RICH BERGEN, recently engaged, is working for Chevrolet engineering and attending the U. of Detroit nights, working for his MBA. MIKE PIECHOCKI is %raiking for General Motors and was married in October with '66er MIKE NAW­ROCKI serving as his best man. JIM ALBRIGHT writes from the west coast to inform us he is 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

working for Douglas Aircraft with the missile and space systems div. in Culver City» Calif. Jim received an MS in aerospace engineering from the 
U. of Michigan. 
DON UMHOFER and wife Betty are in the San Fnindsco bay area where Don is working for Safeco Insurance Co. as a claims adjuster. They nm into JOHN Mac ALEARNEY and his wife Pat who live there while John attends Hastings law school. JOHN STEFANOV. who received his MS from ND is woriung on his PhD at the U. of Alissouri. 
From sunny Florida, TOM BORNHORST writes to tell of his wedding last August in West Palm Beach. Classmates BUCKY McGANN, KEVIN O'NEILL, and MATT DWYER were all in the ivcdding. Tom is teaching and coaching basketball at Cardinal Newman HS in W. Palm Beach. LOU BADIA JR also writes from Florida to drive us crazy ^ith his talk of the beautiful weather and to tell us of his work on his MBA at the U. of Miami. DON BOUFFARD is employed as asst. ticket mgr. and is certainly keeping busy in these daN's of football and basketball success. Don has found time to announce his engagement. 
DANIEL S. HOOVER has been named asst. prof, of mathematics at Coming Community Col. in XY. THOMAS J. SULLIVAN has been ap­pointed ne\%-s editor in the public rcbtions office of State U. Col. at Cortbnd, NY. He will be rcsiMinsibIc for general information services and will also serve as sports information director. JACK GERKEN completed a year of graduate wort at ND last year, got married and has a child on the way. Recently he moved to Los Angeles to work as a project engineer for the Standard Oil Co. of Calif, where he met an Alumnus, ED iL\CIULA. FREDERICK R. NELSON was married last July and J. RAYMOND FLYNN last November. 
THEODORE J. O'MALLEY has been assigned to DC-6 flights originating from Detroit's metropolitan airport after graduation from the United Air Lines Flight Training Center near Denver. 
'66ers arc continuing their achievements in South Bend also. BILL REGNIER won the 43rd men's South Bend golf tourney by the second largest margin in the tourney's history. His 72-hole total u ^ 282. ANTHONY GERMANO is asst. principal at Harrison School in South Bend. He is also pres.­clcct of the South Bend Community Educ. Assoc 
These are just a few of our Class achievements in the two years since graduation. Lack of space prevents me from enumerating any more at the present time. It's quite obvious that our Class progress in all areas has been quite commendable. If these two years arc a foreshadowing of what is to come, the Class of '66 will be one whose con­tributions »*iU be long remembered. 
10AA lAU / FRANK GREGORY 
I TO O L A TV 7403 KEYSTONE LANE FORESTVILLE, MD. 20028 
On behalf of the Class I would like to congratu­btc Judge Lawless on his appointment as dean and offer him any services we can provide which might be of assistance to him and ND. To Dean O'Meara we can only say "thank you." 
TOM McN.\LLY attended a seminar on "tax consequences for charitable corporations" at Ameri­can U. in Washington and while here had dinner with the local group at our apartment. Tom is practicing with Keating, Mucthing and Klckamp In Cincinnati. He and Joan celebrated the birth of Michael Francis De c 15. As might have been predicted the baby arrived on the first day of Tom's first trial. He informed me that RON VETTEL is practicing as a district attorney in nortliem Ohio. 
BOB MURPHY, PAUL POLKING and I joined the local ND Club and watched the 1967 football films in color while toasting anything and every­thing that came to mind. That same night the Houston-UCLA game started at midnight and the end result of our efforts was reminiscent of some of the "better" weekends of law school. We also travelled to Baltimore to meet the NIEMEYERS and KENNEYS for a hockey game, during the course of which we learned that P^ul Polking and FRANK REISER are long lost cousins. Paul's mother recognized Frank from the Class picture. 
Bob was in Columbus in connection with his civil rights cfiv. duties and saw AL "BEAR" McKENNA. AI so likes Ohio that he has accepted a position as assistant US attorney in Columbus. He starts as soon as he finishes his clerkship. Bob also saw BOB "STRIKE BREAKER" KRAUSE in Detroit—no problems there that summer won't cure. 
It looks like wc are going to have the pleasure of the Murph)^* company for some time in Wash­ington. Bob and Afaureen have purchased a home 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
in one of the new self-contained cities wliich are sprouting up around DC. Hopefully our address will change soon as we too are in the home market. But old address or new we look forward to senng everyone who makes it to Washli^ton, this summer or any other time. 
Wc hear that BILL SANNEMAN is serving wt h the Army in Korea and has become somethii^ of a capitalist. He is involved in a little importation of native jewelry—^all on the up and up. PAT BOWERS is also in Korea, but as a civilian. Flit came to law school from Korea where he had been teaching. 
I finish my clerkship June 25 and we mil take a two-week vacation In St. Louis with my family. I'll be starting with Sutherland, Asbill & Brcnnan in Washington July 15. 
 HUGHES 99 W. iffth ST. 

1967 
JOHN BAYONNE, J. NJ . 07002 
Although I have not received too much mall during the last few months, the recent virit of the basket­ball team to New Yoric gave some of us the oppor­tunity of getting together and getting some news. Besides merely being in NY on St. Kiddy's Day, the fine showing that the team gave in the tournament gave us added reason for celebration. 
JACK KANE took some time off from hu labors at Temple metfical school to watch the Fighting Irish while GEORGE MACHIEDO came over fitMn tlic New Jersey col. of medicine. The night of the quarter finals I met HERB GALLAGHER, DENNIS DOR.\N. and TIM GORMAN. Tim has recently finished a tour of duty with the Coast Guard Reserve and is now joining Dennis in the business world while Herb is studying law at Ford ham. 
The night of the finals I met a few of our class­mates in the John Barleycorn Pub, which seems to be becoming the meeting place for '67 Alumni in NY. I have only been there a few times but there has been quite a group there each time. KENT DURSO and RICK TROY were there for the night. Kent is now the asst. editor and artist for the Brooklyn Union Gas Co. magazine—Sendouli he has also been continuing his study in fine arts at New York U. 
Rick, while tx>ntinulng his studies at Seton HaB law school, has become involved with studies of the racial problems in the Newark area in connection with the various inter-racial societies there. We also met RICH DINNALO there, he w ^ up from Georgetown school of law for the weekend. 
Much of the news in the recent months again centers around the military, with many of our class­mates either already in the scr\'ice or waiting to be called. I received a letter from "CHUCK" SIZER who has just finished his OCS course at Quantico and is now in flight training with the Marine air detachment in Pensairola Na\'a] air station. With him at Pcnsacola are JOHN O'MEARA, who is also in the Marine air program, and "SKIP' GIESTING, who is servmg as an ensign. 
A number of our classmates have, of course, been invited to don the army green; some of them have recently completed their basic combat training at Ft. Dbc (NJ) with a fine showing. TONY CROW­LEY, JAMES MORAN, DON KUBISIAK, and PAT McCULLOUGH aU fired expert in the use of the M-14 rifle near the end of basic; while ART ZELLER was promoted to private pay grade £-2 tAvo months earlier than normal Army policy be­cause of his outstanding sho\ring m the training program. 
It seems that our Class has saturated the Air Force irith neW oflUccrs. RICHARD McCLOSKEY, JOH.N WALTERS, and DON NENADIC have aQ recently been commissioned as 2nd Lts. from Lack-hind AFB (Tex.) JOHN ANDREWS and MIKE O'KEEFE have also been commissioned as 2nd Lts. In the Air Force; Mike has been assigned to Amarillo AFB (Tex.) for training as a personnel ofllcer, while John is in training as a missile launch ofiiccr at Chanute AFB (111.) 
Both DARBY KELLY and KARL GUSTKE have entered the Air Force pilot program; they win be stationed at Reese AFB (Tex.) GEORGE HUMM is now stationed at Laredo AFB (Tex.) assigned there for flying duty with the ATC. 
2nd Lt. RON ALVAREZ, after having com­pleted a two month course in the AFIT school at Wright-Patterson AFB (Ohio) has been assigned there as an asst. contracting officer concentrating mainly on work in the field of proposal price anal>-sis. 
Stone & Webster Engineering Corp. has an­nounced that LEONARD R. WOHADLO has completed the company's engineer training program and has been appointed an engineer In the proem industries group of Boston. He and his wife Ifugo arc now living in Cbcstnot Hill, Mas. 
I recently recrivcd a note from BILL TOUS. He and hb wife Blaiy Angela—SMC '87—«e living in New Hnren, Conn, vdicre BiU is at Yale med school woi^ing for a cmbinatioa MD-lfFH degree. He writes that hk cx-roomaate KEVDf HEALY is worting with the Peace Cofps in the Fennrian Andes—Gasilla 125, Paao, Feni, to be precise^ 
1967 laUr JAMES C. HEOraOLD 
----. indTSni 

I kne BO doobt that tUi will be the hit i that win have to be mitten based loUr oa heanay infomiatioo. I'm mxe by the next inoe FU be inundated with yoor caidi and lettcn letting u loiOM^ where you are and what yuu le ooiiiy. 
A letter bom JOHN HAKGROVE in Qmmtia^ Va. telb us that DICK MUENCH and CanI are in tliat area. Dick is in Base SchooL FRANK VERTERANO a stationed at Ft. Meade, only a dozen m3cs from D C 
JIM MOIXISON's engagement to Gemuine Banarfci of Sooth Bend was announced and a summer wedding b planned. Jim entered the Army in Ute March. JERRY "THE KINGFISHER" BERTHOLD was married to his law school Same, Bfargaret, March 9, deep in the Carolinas. 
And now, the stork report: The DAVE FRANCESCANIs are still celebrating the birth of their first child, a prl, in February; the JACK HARDYs are expecting their first this summer; TOM SULLIVAN and Vam arc now expecting their second child as are Maryanne and BOB KONOFA. Having now to the next pbteau, DOMINIC MONTEROSSO and Carolyn cele­brated the birth of their third child and their third boy, Dominic Jr. Other recent arrivals at this level are the KIP ROEs and the LOU BRENNERS, their latest tax exemptions coming within the last few months, 
STEVE "KING OF THE MOUNTAIN" LAMANTIA, diopped into town a few months back and gave us the news that GARY KAUP is alive and livii^ at 1032 Chase St. Hamilton, Ohio. Gary's practice is booming and he is presently chief defense counsel in a first degree murder trial. 
By now, it's not exactly a news flash that PAUL MEYER win clerk for the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. However, it is not as yet known whether Ruil's picture will appear alongside that of Chief Justice Warren's on billboards that dot the Midwest landscape. Attempted humor aside, it's a terrific honor, and it goes without saying that our Class u very proud of him. 
We'n soon be receiving foolbaU ticket orders in the maO, and if you plan on making one of the games, «vhy not pick the Illinois game Oct. 19? 
LARRY FLEMING and JOHN BLASI are in the Naval Justice School in Newport, RI, while JACK "SNOOPY" COUCH, SEAN KEENAN and FRANK CAREY are in officers' training at the US Naval Base in Nevrport, RI. 
FinaUy, a private note to CHRIS FOLEY on the west coast: your blue and white Chevy "bomb" is alive and stiU plowing the streets of South Bend. 
1968 
LEOSAKD J. FELLECCHU 
311 MT. PKOSFECr AVE. NEWARK, NEW JERSEY 071M 

After graduation many of us have not given much thought about keeping in touch «nth the other members of our Class. Yet it is important for us, not only as a means of communication, but also as a means of informadon, to keep the bonds wt h our fellow Class memben which we have formed in our four years at Notre Dame. 
For this reason a Class column xnU uppcar in every issue of the ALUMNUS containing infunnatioQ concerning the members of the Class. In order for this column to be successful, we vnll need the cooperation of everyone. 
We have asked s x men who will be in different areas of the country to keep' in touch %vith us reguhirly. DENNIS WITHERS wiO be at 214 Alberta Dr. NE, AtlanU, Ga.; RICHARD KELLY at 496 Wallis Rd., Rye. NH; JAMES WOODS at 323 S. Kensington, LaGrange, HL ; THOMAS GODBOUT win be at 834 Wheehxk, Detroit; RICHARD CALONE at 176 PUeblo Dr., Pitts­burg, Calif.; and I will be in New Jersey. 
H you arc in any of these areas, we would ap­preciate you dropping us a line telliiup us where you are and what you are doing. The success of this column depends on you. 
GRADUATE 
.-^ - •* V- '.< --. I 
 SCHOOLS 

PHIL FACCENDA, DEAN O'MEARA and EARL MORRIS "Tireless in the cause of Notre Dame." 
Law School Honors O'Meara 
Retiring Dean Joseph O'Meara was the guest of honor at this year's Law Honors Banquet. To him Student Bar Pres. James Barba said, "Your years will never be lost to this law school." 
"During his administration," Barba went on, "Dean O'Meara has accepted the challenge of change." He pointed to the fact that less than half the law school's student body had college degrees when Dean O'Meara came to the Cam-
In the April, 1968 NOTRE DAME LAWYER Luis Kutner, "Due Process of War: 
An Ad Hoc War Crimes Tribunal" Thomas L. Shaffer '61L, "Judges, Re­pulsive Evidence and the Ability to 
Respond" 
Student notes on H.R. 10; federal in­come taxation of nonresident individ­uals; and operational negligence un­der the Longshoremen's and Harbor 
Workers' Compensation Act. 
Student recent-decision comments on the accumulated earnings tax; coun­sel fees in labor proceedings under the LMRA; tax consequences of cov­enants not to compete; vagrancy statutes under the due-process clause; state jurisdiction of labor disputes; and search and seizure in obscenity 
prosecutions. Book reviews by Carl Q. Christol, Louis L. Jaffe and Frank M. Covey Jr. 

pus in 1952—and there was no money for scholarships. Now, with only rare excep­tions, all ND law students are college graduates and next year's scholarship budget viriU range between $200,000 and $275,000. 
He referred to the dean as "stem . . . honest . . . fair" and said that students found him "a hard-nosed, skinflint, reso­lute sentimentalist. 
"The Dean has been tireless in the cause of Notre Dame," Barba said. "To­day the name of the Notre Dame Law School is known north and south, east and west, here and abroad, and this has been his answer to challenge. 
"Dean O'Meara," he concluded, "for all that you have done for us, for our profession, our law school, tonight, to­gether, we salute you." 
Dean O'Meara's former colleague at the Columbus Bar, Earl Morris, now presi­dent of the American Bar Association, gave the principal address of the evening. Dean O'Meara acknowledged the acco­lades of the occasion, but did not deliver an address. 
Gray's Inn spring speakers included for­mer congressman and 1964 Republican vice-presidential nominee, WILLIAM MILLER, and Whitney M. Young Jr. executive director of the National Urban League. George F. Ball (Michigan; West-em Michigan) was elected president of the Inn for next year. Daniel L. Hebert 
(Kansas, St. Benedict's) is vice-president; James E. Doyle (Texas, Rice) is secre­tary; and James W. Joiner (Florida, 
Spring Hill) is treasurer. 

The legislative drafting service plans an expanded program of service to legislators and social agencies next year. This years researching student draftsmen, directed by James A. Hancock (Maryland, Nevada U.), drafted amendments to the Indiana adoption statutes and prepared a series of ten consumer protection bills and a model act on electronic surveillance. Nicholas R. Trogan (Michigan, Central Michigan) is director of the service for next year. 
Moot Court finalists for next fall's "Su­preme Court" round are Albert J. Bannon (Pennsylvania, St. Joseph's), James P. Cooney (Texas, ND), Hugh D, Prior (Rhode Island, Providence) and James 
E. Rolls (New York, Canisius). The Court elected Bryan J. Hughes (New York, Providence) as its director for next year. 
The Student Bar Assoc, in what may be a first, re-elected its president and vice-president for second terms. James J. Barba (New York, Siena) is president; Thomas 
J. Bonner (Pennsylvania, LaSalle) is vice-president. Newly elected ofiScers include Thomas M. Harvick (Illinois, St. Mary's), secretary; Paul K. Cole (Alabama, Tal­ladega), treasurer; Joseph G. Frantin (New Jersey, St. Bonaventure) and Rich­ard W. Slawson (Minnesota, ND) class representatives; and Timothy J. Malloy (Connecticut, ND) and Joseph M. Mur­ray (Massachusetts, Stone Hill) as dele­gates to the ABA Law Student Division. 
Prof. John J. Broderick was co-director thk year of the annual Union-Manage­ment Conference, "Future Trends in Ne­gotiations." It b the 16th year for the meeting here. Professor Broderick went through his duties in a weakened condi­tion because of a leg broken this spring during a handball game. Rumor has it that he can still swing a golf club. 
Timothy O. Kiisd (Indiana, ND) was given a $100 cash prize by the First Na­tional Bank of Chicago, for his entry in the bank's annual contest on estate plan­ning. Krisd submitted an essay on mutual fund shares as proper trust investments for the ND competition. His paper will also be entered in the bank's national competition. 
—Ihomas Shaffer 
JOHN BRODERICK Nothing stops a duffer. 

ALUMNUS MAY 19i8 JUNE 
Physics 
The response to the first physics graduate 
column (ND ALUMNUS, March-April) and 
to the plea contained therein to check in, 
has been excellent About 83 completed 
questionnaires have been received to date. 
Since quite a few of the returned ques­
tionnaires were accompanied by requests 
for an up-to-date list of our physics PhD 
Alumni, along with their current addresses 
and affiliations, I'm making this my next 
major project. Hopefully, you will be re­
ceiving your list soon—if you returned your 
questionnaire, that is! 
In the first column, after listing the first 
recipients of the PhD degree in physics at 
ND (five in 1942), I promised to try to 
supply up-to-date information on the next 
eight Alumni who received their PhD de­
grees in the remaining years of the 1940s. 
So here goes. 
Bro. ADALBERT MROWCA CSC '44 
(physical electronics) stayed on with us as 
a member of the faculty of the department 
of physics. As the supervisor of all of our 
laboratories in general undergraduate phys­
ics, he comes close to being the one in­
dispensable man in the department. 
HAROLD E. ELLITHORN '45 (phys­
ical electronics) and wife Geraldine live at 
13330 W. Bluemound Rd., Elm Grove, 
Wis. 53122. They have one child, Carol, 
and three grandchildren. Harold is cur­
rently a member of the faculty of the de­
partment of electrical engineering at Mar­
quette U., Milwaukee. According to latest 
reports, he will be spending the summer 
with Ling-Temco-Vought in Anaheim, 
Calif. 
MARCELLUS WIEDENBECK '45 
(nuclear physics) and wife Jane live at 
3786 Elizabeth Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich. 
48103. They have six children, three boys 
and three girls. Marc is a member of the 
faculty of the department of physics at the 
U. of Michigan and holds the rank of full prof. 
S. LEONARD DART '46 (high polymer physics) and wife Martha live at 421 W. Eighth St., Claremont, Calif, when they're home, that is. Leonard is a member of the physics faculty in the Claremont col­leges, but is enjoying a sabbatical during the current academic year and is serving as acting chairman of the graduate physics program at the American Col., Madurai, South India. Leonard and Martha will be returning to Claremont this summer. They have four children. 
PAUL E. WACK '47 (high polymer physics) and wife Mary Ellen live at 6314 
N. Princeton St., Portland, Ore. 97203. Paul and Mary Ellen have four children, two boys and two girls. Paul has been a member of the faculty of the department of physics at the U. of Portland since 1949. He is currendy prof, of physics and chair­man of the faculty of physics at the U. of Portland. 
WALTER C. MILLER '48 (nuclear physics) and wife Betty live at 1129 River­side Dr., South Bend. They have seven children. Walt has been a member of the faculty of the ND department of physics since 1947. He holds the rank of full prof. As the senior member of our "Accelerator Group," Walt is busily engaged in helping supervise the assembly of our new 15 MeV 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
Tandem Accelerator. The group hopes to 
have the new accelerator "on the air" 
this coming summer. 
DONALD G. IVEV '49 (high polymer 
physics) and wife Marjorie live at 34 
Yewfield Crescent, Don Mills, Ontario, 
Canada. They have three children, two 
girls and one boy. Don is co-author of a 
textbook. Physics, used in Ontario 1955­
1964, and has been active in education TV 
programs in Canada. He is also well 
known as a co-author and performer in 
four outstanding PSSC films. One of these, 
"Frames of Reference," won an Edison 
Award in New York as "the best science 
education film of 1962" and another, 
"Random Events," won a silver medal 
from the Scientific Institute in Rome 
(1963). Don is currently prof, of physics 
and principal of New College, at the U. 
of Toronto, 
JOHN F. MARSHALL '49 (theoretical 
physics) and wife Edith live in Lumber-
ville. Pa. To the best of my knowledge. 
Jack is still with Socony-Vacuum. Since 
he has not yet checked in, I am unable 
to supply further details. 
The above all-too-brief listing of eight 
more of our physics PhD Alumni takes care 
of my principal task for this column. 
Among the more pleasant duties connected 
with this reporting venture has been the 
reading of the notes which accompanied a 
number of the returned completed ques­
tionnaires. In several cases, these notes 
supplied information about other memben 
of our PhD Alumni family. For this in­
formation I am very grateful. In fact, I'll 
endeavor to put it to good use in the 
next column. 
—Prof. R. I. Anthony 
Physici Dep(. 
Noire Dawe, Ind, 465S6 

History 
PAUL L. SIMON PhD '65 is teaching at Xavier U. in Cincinnati. He has been there since 1963 and has been chairman of the department since 1965. 
ROBERT JONES PhD '67 and THOMAS MORIARTY PhD '64, assist­ant professors at Fordham U., Bronx, NY, will be visiting professors at Talladega Col., Talladega, Ala. under the terms of Fordham's faculty-student exchange pro­gram during the 1968-69 school year. 
—Prof. Bernard NorUng 
Acting Chairman, History Oepor/fflenf Noire Dome, Ind. 46556 

Tiieology 
Rev. Albert L. Schlitzer CSC, chairman of the theology dept for the past five years, will retire this summer but continue teaching at the University. The new chair­man will be Rev. JAMES T. BURT­CHAELL CSC '56. 
The following appointments were made this spring: Father Burtchaell is a Dan-forth associate at the University; Rev. CHARLES SHEEDY '33 is consultant to the American Medical Assoc, on the ethics of heart transplantation, and Rev. LEON MERTENSOTTO CSC '53 is an advisor to the trustees' committee of the National Kidney Foundation on the ethics of dial­ysis and kidney transplantation. 
Among the MA Alumni of our depaxt­men^ the fallowing are t^rhit^ Aedogfz BOB QUIRK '67 at Ifount St. Jowiiii. on-the-Ohio in Cincinnati; MARTIN KLEST '67 at Bacat CoL in Lake Fofett, HL; BETSY JARVIS '67 at Xavier CoL in Chicago; DON FELRINE '67 at Onr Lady of Cincinnati CoL in CNiio; MAR­CARET GEIB '67 at Trinitf CoL in Washington, DC; GAIL BOLLE R '68 at Sacred Heart U. in Bridgepmt, Conn.; DOUG GASPER '67 at the U. of Dayton; JUDY WIMMER '67 at Notre Dame; JEAN CONDREN '67 at Rosaiy Bin CoL in Buffalo, NY. 
Others are JOHN CHRISTOFF '67 at Christian Brothen Cd. in Memphis; BAR­RY MITCHELL '67 at Gannon CoL in Eri^ Pa.; Sr. MARY PATRICIA Mc-CARNEY '67 at Mount St. Bernard CoL in Antigonish, Nova Scotia; KEN ALLEN '67 at Seton Hall in So. Orange, NJ; DAN CRONIN '67 at Niagara U. in New York; FRANK LUBARSKI '67 at Lewis CoL in Lockport^ IIL 
MIKE VALENTE MA '62, who re­
ceived his PhD from Columbia, has been 
elected chairman of the theologjr dept. at 
Seton Hall in So. Orange, NJ. 
The following are continuing their studies: DAVE ZANGRILU '67 in Semitic languages at Johns Hopkins U.; KEN BRADT '67 and RON BURKE '67 at Yale Divinity School; LEE VAN HORN '67 at Case Reserve in Cleveland; RICH­ARD LUX '67, GARY McGRATH '67 and Sr. JEROME SCHWAN '67 in the doctoral program at ND. 
Rev. FINIAN McGINN '67 is conduct­ing the pastoral year for the OFM priests in Stockton, Calif, and Sr. ALETTE LENZ '67 is in charge of postulants for her community in Joliet, IIL BILL REED '67 is with the Peace Corps in Africa and JOE CROWLEY '68 wiU be making a tour writh the Army before continuing liis studies for the PhD. 
We are asking the Alumni graduates of our department to drop a line to our new secretary, Mrs. Ann Scheu, about any new appointments or changes for publication in this column. 
—ftcv. Iton Mtrftnsoifo CSC TAco/ogr Oept. 
Notn Dam; Ind. 46556 

MKUHCU tmiMBIVf 
The mechanical engineering.department is presendy composed of 17 faculty members ' and several addirional factdty are being sougjit. Research in the department is presently supported by Office of CivO De­fense, Atomic Energy Commission, Na­tional Science Foundation, Office of Naval Research, National Safety Council, Air Force Cambridge . Laboratory and the Bendix Corp. 
In the last ten years our undergraduate students have won, in national conqieti* tion, 14 NSF r^ular graduate fdlowAipi, 17 NSF feDowship honoiabfe mgiirinni^ 19 AEC nuclear science and engineering graduate fellowships and one Woodrow Wilson graduate fellowship in htimanitin, 
The imdeigiaduate program is bang continually refined and several recent inr novations include off-campus ' ^ plant" laboratory assignments as well as departs mental research participation. 
To date the department has graduated 
12 PhDs. FRANK JEGLIC and RICH­
ARD BAJURA are at the Babcock and 
Wilcox Research Center, Alliance, Ohio. 
QUmri N HAWTHORNE is the head 
of the aero-mechanical engineering depart­
ment at Tri-State College, Angola, lad. 
MATTHEW KELLEHER is an assistant 
prof, at the US Naval Postgraduate School, 
Monterey, Calif. CALVIN WOLF is an 
assistant prof, at the U. of Illinois, Chi­
cago Circle Campus. JOSEPH PECZ­
KOWSKI and DAVID THOMAN are 
employed by the aerospace division of the 
Bendix Corp., South Bend. 

FRANK SURIANO is in Phoenix, Ariz, with the AiResearch Corp. ROBERT HENRY is in the Aii Force as a captain. RAY BROWN is an assistant prof, at the Christian Brothers Col., Memphis, Tenn. MIKE GROLMES is a research scientist at the Argonne National Laboratories and TOM KANE has just joined the McDon­nel Aircraft Co. in St. Louis. 
—Edward Jerger, CfiQi'rmon 
Mechanical Engineering Oept. 
Notre Dome, /nd. 46556 
Metallurgical Engineering 
The full name of this department is met­allurgical engineering and materials sci­ence. This indicates the broad range of subject matter now encompassed, from casting and forging at one extreme to solid state physics at the other. And gone are the days when the metallurgist thought only of metals. He now realizes there is only one science of materials, metallic and non-metallic alike, and that brass, germanium and magnesium oxide are cousins under the skin. 
All of these materials are crystalline and all of them contain imperfections. Dislo­cations, substituted foreign atoms, inter­stitial foreign atoms, vacancies, stacking faults — all of these are distributed through the crystal structure, interacting with one another and always setting- up 

peculiar distributions of microstrain. Mod­
em metallurgical research is much con­

cerned with imperfections, both as an ob­
ject of study for their own sake and be­
cause a better understanding of them will 
allow better control of properties and the 
synthesis of new materials. Much of the 
materials research at ND is imperfection-
oriented. 
The staff of our department was 
strengthened in September, 1967 by the 
arrival of Dr. A. £. Miller. His doctoral 

degree is from Iowa State, where he did 
research on the magnetic and optical 
properties of rare-earth alloys and oxides. 
He has also taught at the U. of Alberta. 
During 1967-68 Prof. G. C. Kuczynski 
is spending a sabbatical year at the French 
atomic energy laboratory at Saday, near 
Paris. He is studying diffusion and sinter­
ing mechanisms in oxide systems. 
There is increasing research concentra­
tion in the department in the area of mag­
netic materials, an area strangely neglected 
in US universities. For example, four fac­
ulty members (Professors C, W. Allen, 

N. F. Fiore, A. E. MiUer and B. D. Cul­lity) are collaborating on magnetic re­search under the aegis of Project Themis. This is a college-wide research effort on the general theme of deep-sea engineering. Our department's portion of this work is a search for a better alloy for the mag­netostrictive transducers used to generate underwater sound for sonar systems. This work involves alloy preparation, magneto­striction measurements and studies of the effects of biasing field and stress on mag­netostrictive behavior. 
Other recent magnetic studies per­formed here include interactions of do­main walls and dislocations, time-depend­ent magnetic effects and magnetic aniso­tropy caused by plastic prestrain. 
Prof. E. A. Peretti, chairman of the de­partment^ continues his studies of phase equilibria in multicomponent systems. Prof. C. W. Allen PhD '58 is working on the stability of dislocation substructures and superplasticity in aluminum bronzes. Professor Fiore is using internal friction as a tool to study the interactions of dis­locations and point defects and to follow the Idnetics of such transformations as re­covery and precipitation in alloys. He Is also investigating solidification phenomena in nickel-base superalloys. 
Professor MiUer is assembling equip­ment for the study of cryogenic magnetic properties of metals, aUoys and com­pounds. Professor CuUity is attempting to measure subsurface residual stress in steel, nondestructively, by means of alternating magnetic fields. 
Graduate work in metallurgy at ND predates that of any other department in the College of Engineering by several years. The first PhD degree in metallurgy was given in 1940 to GEORGE J. FOSS. He is now director of the package develop­ment lab of Anchor Hoddng Glass Coip. in Lancaster, Ohio. 

Other early holders of advanced degrees are FRANCIS T. McGUIRE PhD *41, 
WILLIAM CASSELL MA '68 
At work at electron microscope. 

-who was recentiy we-pres. for special projects at ND and is now vice-pres. in charge of Europe, Africa and the Middle East for Deere and Co., working out of Heidelbeig, Germany; TAYLOR LYMAN PhD '44, editor of Metals Handbook and publisher of Metal Progress, Cleveland, and EUGENE P. KLIER PhD '44, pro­fessor of metallurgy at Syracuse U. 
More recent graduates include HUGH MCQUEE N PhD '61 (department of mmes, Ottawa, Canada); DIPAK BAG­CHI PhD '67 (Union Carbide Corp., Ko­komo, Ind.), and R. F. KRAUSE PhD '66 (applied research lab, US Steel Co., Monroeville, Pa.). 
Future issues of the AtUMNUs will carry news of other graduates and of research activity in the department Meanwhile graduates are asked to send in news of themselves so the faculty and fellow grad­uates will know where they are and what they are doing. 
—Prof. B. D. Cullily Depf. of Melalhrgicat Engineering 
end Materiali Science Box E Notre Dome, Ind. 46S56 
Music 
Since this is our initial effort, current in­formation concerning graduates is scarce. Through this column we hope to keep you posted on activities of the music depart­ment and its graduates. It is evident your cooperation is essential to make such a project successfuL 
We have heard from a few of our graduates. Those presendy in the South Bend area are JOHN FITZHENRY '51, supervisor in the public school system; TERRY HOWARD '64, teaching in the Catholic school system; and JAY MIL­LER '67, director of the string program at Washington HS. 
While I was in Muskegon, Mich. I had the opportunity to visit ROY EMERSON '63 who is director of instrumental music in the Catholic schools of Grand Rapids and on the faculty of Aquinas Col. BOB BROWN '65 is presendy director of music in the Catholic schools of Muskegon. As­asting Bob is ED STUEMKE '66. 
Back m Dallas, BILL SCHUSTER '63 is director of bands at Jesuit HS. Bill is working on his doctorate at North Texas State. A "little" further north PHIL WELTER '60 has developed a fine pro­gram in the Catholic schools of St. Cloud, Minn. 
We hear JOHN GUINN '59 is teaching humanities at the U. of Detroit. JIM HERENDEEN '59 has "retired" from the teaching field to assume a position with H. A. Selmer Inc. 
The last we heard PAUL CIOCHION '58 was performing on piano in the Chi­cago area. DICK CASPER '54 is on the faculty of ManhattanviUe Col. and is con­certizing in the New York area. EUGENE GORSKI CSC '55 is teaching theolog>-. HANNS-BERTOLD DIETZ '54 received his doctorate at Innsbruck and is on the staff at the U. of Texas. 
CHARLES McCABE '54 is vice-pres. of the Developmental Reading Lab in Huntington, NY. ROY O'NEIL '54 is in the public school system in Aurora. 
ALUMNUS MAY IMS JUNE 

DUDLEY BIRDER '52 is at St. Norbert's 
Col. MIKE HENNESSEY '66 is director 
of instrumental music at Bishop NoU In­
stitute in Hammond, Ind. The ND Con­
cert Band performed the first movement 
of Mike's "Symphony for Band" during 
its 1967 tour. 
Please let us know where you are and what you're.doing. 
—James S. Phillips • 
University Bonds, Box 523 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 

SOGiOlOQf 
Time was when an advanced degree in sociology conferred by a Catholic univer­sity represented a kind of professional mill­stone. Recipients would be welcome at other Catholic schools, but their creden­tials were suspect in the world of secular higher education. By implication at least. Catholic schools hewed to a "party line" growing out of affiliation with the Church, teaching a brand of sociology substantially different from that offered at non-sectarian institutions. Our own department fell within the pale of this rather prevalent stereotype. 
More fancy than fact, more caricature than accurate portrayal, the department's image abroad nevertheless had marked ef­fects on its make-up and operations. Broadly speaking it meant that we func­tioned in an educational ghetto of sorts. Graduate students were recruited from Catholic colleges, placed in teaching posi­tions in Catholic colleges when they be­came degree-holders and the faculty tend­ed to publish in Catholic periodicals for a Catholic audience. Meanwhile, of course, the image abroad persisted relatively un­changed. 
In recent years, mounting evidence shows that the mold in which we were placed is breaking down. To be sure, many of the finest students entering our program have prior degrees from Catholic institutions and many, upon receipt of their advanced degrees, go forth to Catholic schools to spread the sociological word. On the other hand, an increasing number of our appli­cants are from non-Catholic schools. Graduate students presently enrolled- in­clude young scholars from such schools as Ohio U., Michigan State, College of Wooster, Indiana U., Kentucky and Val­paraiso. Perhaps even more significant is the recent upsurge of interest on the part of all types of sociology departments in hiring degree-holders trained at ND. 
Any impartial sociologist could point to a variety of reasons for these develop­ments. Sociology has become one of the "in" disciplines and the demand for pro­fessional sociologists far exceeds the sup­ply. The faculty's research activities and publications are catching the attention of sociologists and students in the academic community. But not being altogether im­partial, we like to think that the more perceptive observers in the field of sociol­ogy are filially coming to realize what we have known for some time — that our program turns out quality products who can hold their own anywhere. 
—Prof. Roberf Voso/i Soc/ofog/ Depf. Notre Dome, Ind. 46S5& 

ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
Art 
Change and ferment are a very real part of the contemporary art scene. The east wing of O'Shaughnessy Hall reflects this condition as it takes on a new look with the appointment of Thomas S. Fern as the chairman of the art dept. succeeding Rev. ANTHONY J. LAUCK CSC '42, director of the ND Art Gallery. Dr. Fern, who comes to ND from Berea Col. (Ky.), was honored in April by his alma mater. New York U., for distinguished research in the field of religious art. The new chairman is assisted in this office by Rev. JAMES F. FLANNIGAN CSC '58, MA '62. 
The recent additions to the staff of Clif­ford Brown, asst. prof, of art, and Dean 
A. Porter, curator of the ND Art Gallery and asst. prof, of art, are part of the faculty building program within the de­partment that aims to complement the well balanced studio program with a major sequence in the history of art. Dr. Brown has been teaching at Syracuse U. and is the recipient of a second post-doctoral Fulbright grant to Italy for '68-'69. 
Other staff additions include JOHN MOONEY '63, asst. prof. Mooney earned his MFA at the U. of Illinois and then spent a year in Italy before joining the faculty of Murray State U. (Ky.). This artist has been honored by the purchase of one of his engravings by the Museum of Modem Art, NYC. JAMES WELU MFA '68 has received an appointment as in­structor for summer school '68. Welu has been a graduate asst. this year. 
Two staff members have been granted leaves of absence. Robert Leader, piof. of art, has been given leave this spring to continue his research in the role of light as an artistic vehicle in worship. Leader has been traveling in India and Southeast Asia. Donald G. Vogl, asst prof, of art, will be on leave during '68­'69. Vogl received an honorable mention in'.painting at the '68 Hoosier Salon, Gary, Ind. 
Among the graduate students, JESSE WRIGHT '66, an MFA candidate, has been appointed director of the South Bend Art Center. Another MFA candidate, Richard Raymond Alasko, is the newly elected art editor of the Scholastic. THOMAS V. NAKASHIMA MA '67 is the art instructor at Berrien Springs (Mich.) HS. Nakashima won the painting prize in the '68 Fort Wayne Annual. DONALD J. BRONSON MA '66 has re­ceived his MMA from Ohio State U. Two other MFA candidates have been honored for their art. Bruce Bobik won an awrard in the National Watercolor Show and Sue Maguire received an honorable mention in the '68 Sippewana Regional at the La­fayette, Ind. Art Center. 
Our graduates are distinguishing them­selves in the varied world of art. This first report is far from inclusive of either the activities of the department or of its ad­vanced degree holders. There will be more in subsequent issues so be sure to keep us informed of your progress. 
ANTHONY SORCE '6^ Recognized by Guggenheim. 

A ^,00 0 Guggenhdm feUowsbip for creative sctdpture has been awarded AN> THONY J. SORCE '61, 62. He will itiidr studio adaptation of advanced industrial materials and fabrication in NYC. Sorce'f most recent mrork is done exclusively in a medium called polyuretbene. A graduate of the American Academy of Art in Chi-c^o, Scree taught at Nazareth CoL, Kala­mazoo, l^ch., before joining the faculty at Nazareth CoL in Rochester, NY, «diere he currently teaches art. 
—ttoK Kobert Ltathr 
Dept. of Art 
Notre Dam*, Ind. 46S56 

Gbeaisliy 
Reilly lecturers for the ciurent semester were Paul Boyer from UCLA, Seymour Rabinovitch from the U. of Washington and Albert Eschenmoser from Zurich. Severo Ochoa, Nobel laureate bam the NYU medical school, was the Nieuwiand lecturer in March. At the President's Din­ner May 6 it was annotuced that Jerry Freeman and Emil Hofman were promoted to full professors. 
GENE ASHBY '57 was featured in a recent C 9 E News article. He has a strong research program under way in or­ganoboron chemistry at Georgia Tech. Also on the staff there is TOM MORAN '62 in physical chemistry. At St. Xavier CoL in Chicago Sr. MARY OLIVIA BARRETT RSM '57 is pres. and JOE WEST '65 is chairman of natural sciences. BOB BECK­ER '60 is assoc. prof, at Gaimon CoL in Erie; the Beckers' fourth child was bom in April. JOHN CORRIGAN "49 is di­rector of process engineering at Mead Johnson in Evansville. 
JACK DUGAN '65 is with NASA at the Lewis Research Center in Cleveland and also teaches plasma physics at John Car­roU U. PHIL FAUST '52 is with Olin Mathieson in New Haven. Every Novem­ber finds him on campus interviewing ND chemists. At St Edward's U. in Austin, Tex. Bro. RAYMOND FLECK CSC '54 is rounding out his eleventh year as pres. Teaching chemistry there are GEORGE ESTOK '50 and Bro. THOMAS McCUL-LOUGH MS '49 (PhD Utah '55). FEN­DALL FRONING '40 is a production su­perintendent for DuPont Chamber Works. His oldest son Mike is a '63 ND grad and daughters Ann and Mary are St. Mary's alumnae, '64 and '68. 
LEW GEVANTMAN '51 was recently appointed manager of solid state properties and chem. kinetics at the Bureau of Stan­dards. HUGH GILLIS '57 and ROSS POTTIE '57 are at the Canadian National Research Council in Ottawa. HANS HER­MANS '67 is with Uni\'ac, not IBM as I reported in my previous column. LARRY HESS '41 continues with Union Carbide in South Charleston, W. Va. Larry has a son at ND and a daughter at St. Mary's and is a frequent visitor to the Campus. Sr. ANN GERTRUDE HILL OSU '57 heads the chemistry depL at the new cam­pus of Ursuline Col. on the east side of Cleveland. 
JIM KERWIN '44 was recently named director of research, chemistry-microbiol­ogy, at Smith, Kline & French Laborato­ries, Philadelphia. Rev. PETER MORI­WAKI SJ '65 keeps in touch through the ND student contingent at Sophia U. in Tokyo. MERRITT OTTO '33 has been with Reilly Tar & Chemical in Indianap­olis for over 30 years. His son Jerry is a junior in computer science at ND. LEW TAFT '63 is back from Japan with IBM in San Jose, Calif. 
I'll try to get a chemistry alumni direc­tory together and in the mail this summer. 
—firo. Co/umbo Curron CSC 
Depf. of Chemhtry 
Notre Dame, Ind, 465S6 
Chemical Engineering 
Although chemical enpneering has existed as an accredited ND department since 1925, it was only as recently as 1960 that a full graduate program was instituted and approved for the PhD degree. Under the direction of Dr. J. T. Banchero (BS, MS Columbia, PhD Michigan), the then newly appointed chairman, a significant expan­sion in staff and research facilities was realized to implement the PhD program and sustain the undergraduate program. 

Within a decade the staff has increased from three to ten, including Dr. E. J. WILHELM '27, MS '28, PhD '30 who has devoted himself as a teacher and re­search worker for some 30 years at ND. Completing the teaching-research staff are Dr. JAMES P. KOHN '51 (MS Michigan, PhD Kansas); Dr. E. W. Thiele (BS Illinois, PhD Northwestern); Dr. A. H. P. Skelland (BS, PhD U. of Birmingham, England); Dr. E. D. Crandall (BS Cooper 
Si 

JAMES J. CARBERRY '50 was presented the Yale Engineering Award for Advancement of Basic ond Applied Science by Yale Pres. Kingman Brewster. Corberry, who earned his doctorate at Yale in 1957, was honored for his research in catalysis and chemical reaction engineering. Another recent feather in the cap of the author of the chemical engineer­ing column is his being invited by the president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences to lecture at the International Congress in Catalysis in July in 
Moscow and Novosibirsk. He will Germany, Czechoslovakia and Italy. 

Union, PhD Northwestern); Dr. K. D. Luks (BS Princeton, PhD U. <rf Minne­sota); Dr. N. Sylvester (BS Ohio, PhD Carnegie Tech); Dr. F. H. Verhoff (BS Dayton, MS, PhD Michigan); and Dr. J. 
J. CARBERRY '50, MS '51 (PhD Yale). As modem chemical engineering in­volves the application of physics, mathe­matics and chemistry to the analysb and design of chemical processes, both the undergraduate and graduate pFOgranu are designed to discipline the student at these respective levels in the fundamental sciences, both pure and applied. Through the intelligent inclusion of specific design problems, the staff is able to emphasize the ultimate goal of chemical engineering science—application of fundamentals to realize the solution of real problems. While BS graduates of the ND program in chemical engineering (about 30 per year) enter a graduate school (about 25 percent do so), law, business or medical schools (perhaps 10 to 20 percent) and the balance successfully seek immediate industrial, or perhaps less enthusiastically, military assignments, the chemical engi­neering undergraduate program is common to all majors. The quantitative character of the program proves advantageous to the student whether he chooses to pursue PhD work or a law degree. Further, with a staff of 10, class section size can be main­tained at about 20 students, thus provid­ing the enviable individual attention so dearly sought but rarely realized at other universities. The PhD research program reflects the broad interests and nationally and inter­nationally recognized accomplishments of the staff. Dr. Banchero directs work in boiling heat transfer and radiation effects in catalysis. Dr. Wilhelm is expert in electrochemistry and corrosion. Dr. Thiele, 
recendy and deservedly honored by the American Institute of Chemical Engi­
 also lecture this summer in England, 
neers, directs work in fiuidization and urea adduct kinetics. 
Dr. Kohn, an applied mathemadcian and theimodynamicist, supervises research in phase equilibrium and diffusion. Dr. Skelland, whose recent text in non-New­tonian fluid flow, heat and mass transfer has received universal acclaim, directs graduate research in this area as well as in liquid-liquid extraction processes. Dr. Crandall, who was awarded an NIH fellowship to study physiology at the U. of Peimsylvania in '68-'69, directs research in process dynamics, biomedical engineer­ing, applied math and transient phenom­ena in heterogeneous catalysis. 
Dr. Luks, who brings to us a distin­guished background in statistical and quantum mechanics, works in the key area of solution theory and thermody­namics in general. Dr. Sylvester's interests include fluid mechanics, particularly non-Newtonian phenomena. 
Dr. VerhoS's interests include statistical processes, liquid metal heat transfer and stability phenomena. Dr. Carberry, who was a senior NSF fellow and lecturer at Cambridge U. in England in '65-'66 and has been invited to lecture in Europe this summer, directs research focused mainly upon heterogeneous catalysis, transport phenomena and chemical reaction engi­neering. 
At present there are about 30 candi­dates enrolled in the department seeking the graduate degree. Thus research is generously supported by key agencies and institutions including the National Science Foundation, AEC, Petroleum Research Fund of the American Chemical Society and several major industrial firms such as the American Oil Co. and Gulf Oil Co. which provide generous fellowships and research monies to sustain the graduate student. 
Totally cognizant of the dynamic nature 
ALUMNUS MAY 19<8 JUNE 

of technology, the chemical engineering 
department, with Dean Hogan's en­
couragement and support, continually 
revises its programs to provide the best in 
engineering education. 
—Prof. J. J. Corfaerry Chtmkal Engrneering Oepf. 
Notre Dome, Ind. 46556 

Economics 
The main duty of professional economists 
at an institution of higher learning is 
teaching. The department of economics at 
ND considers teaching both an art and a 
science. It is something that only time and 
experience perfect. To teach effectively it is 
necessary to communicate ideas lucidly and 
instill in students a genuine interest for 
economics as a scientific discipline. This as­
pect of teaching is truly an art. The econ­
omist must also methodically unfold his 
social science to students and gently guide 
them to the frontiers of economic knowl­
edge. This aspect of teaching is scientific. 
To present current developments of their profession, economists themselves must be at the frontier of their discipline. Ways to keep abreast are attending professional meetings and seminars, keeping in close contact with fellow coUeagiies and know­ing the current economic literature. Nat­urally, all of us maintain such contact with our profession. 
In addition to this, however, we desire to go one step beyond such contact; that is, we desire to contribute to our profes­sion. Contributions to one's profession offer the teacher many insights into eco­nomic problems that are then relayed to the student. The members of the economics department desire to teach effectively in both senses of the word. 
The economic research currently taking place encompasses many aspects of the world economy. It extends from the inte­gration of marginal populations into the productive sectors of developing countries to the economic efficiency of credit unions. To be specific, this research includes Prof. William Leahy's PhD '66 three volumes of readings in regional and urban economics, currently in preparation. 
Rev. Mark Fitzgerald CSC '28 has re­cently published a book on the labor poli­cies of the European Common Market. Prof. William Davisson, the department's economic historian, is investigating colonial trade patterns, post-Civil War migration of Negroes and a study of the growth and wealth of colonial Massachusetts for the 1640-1682 era with Prof. Dennis Dugan. They recently gave a paper on that sub­ject at the 8th Annual Cliometrics Insti­tute at Purdue U. Professors James Rakow­eski and Kwan Kim are preparing several papers on international trade theory and Dr. Kim is investigating migration hypoth­eses within the context of economic growth in a dual economy. 
Prof. Greg Curme, the department's statistician, has just published an article in the Quarterly Journal of Mathematics entided "Classical Analytic Representa­tions" in collaboration with Prof. Emeritus linar Hille of Yale U., the world-renowned mathematician. Professor Curme has also joined IVof. John Croteau on articles con­ceming the economic efficiency of credit unions. 
Rev. Ernest Bartell CSC '53 is collabo­rating with Professors Dugan and Thomas Swartz.on a study of the economics of Catholic school education. This study has taken Father Bartell to Washington, Stan­ford and Hawaii to present papers on the subject. Father Bartell and Dr. Dugan will continue their cross-cultural study of edu­cation and migration of marginal popula­tions in Latin America this summer in Valparaiso, Chile. 
These projects are on the horizon and the changing economic climate of the world calls for more research and original 
ideas in dealing_«idi iecioaemk ] The nest ecGtioa of this calmM wM review die whaeaboiits and activities of our recent MAs and FiiDs. Let us know if you fall into that cat^ory and are MM currently in tCMch widi us. Starting widi this next edStioii, Fttof. James SaknwAi will take over this arfumn until I retnm in September, 1969. Next year I will be leave of absence at the BrcnUngs Institu­tion in Washingtim, DC, woiting under a Public Pkdicy nra^am that initiates and evaluates government pragiams. —frof. 0«nnt< Dugan OaportiMnt of Econonikf Nsir* Daim, Ind. ^6S56 
SHEERAN CYPHER SIMMONS DUNCAN PEZDIRTZ 
Congrats 
Stanley R. Sheeran MS '39 PhD '41 
(chemistry) has been appointed senior vice-president of operations for Tenneco Chemicals Inc., NYC. He will have corporate staff responsibility for manu­facturing and engineering throughout the company and will serve as adviser to all operating divisions and depart­ments. He is a member of the board of directors of the firm which produces organic chemicals and specialties, dyes and pigments, petrochemicals, plastics and packaging materials. 
George A. Cypher MS '48, PhD '50 
has been named vice-president of mar­keting by Natvar Corp. This is a new position designed to integrate the con­cept of marketing from a system's view­point. 
Edward D.Simmons MA'49,PhD'52 
(philosophy) will assume the new po­sition of associate vice-president for academic affairs at Marquette U. Aug. 
1. He has been chairman of the phi­losophy department and acting dean of the graduate school. Simmons will share responsibilities for academic pro­grams, faculty development and co­ordination of Marquette's colleges and 

/ ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
schools. A former ND faculty mem­ber, he has been on the B&njuette staff ance 1932 and has authored a textbook, edited a volume of esnys and written many articles for philosopliy journals. 
Vciy Rev. David Duncan MA '49 
(history) was elected coadjutor abbot of the 51 priests in the Benedictitte community of St. Bede. Abbot Dun­can has taught religion, history and English at St. Bede Abbey in Pern, HI. since 1939. He entered the Benedic­tine order in 1937 and was ordained in 1943. His duties have included be­ing prefect, chaplain, rector, siAprior. of the monastery aiid cleric master. 
Geoisc Padkb '55 PhD '60faa* le­
ceived the Arthur S. Flemming Award for 1968 for the develcqiment of a new family of polymer plastics called pyr-Tones. The awards are qnnsored by the downtown Jaycees of the District ot Columbia and the US Civil Service Commisnon and go to the ten imtstand­ing young men in the federal gmaitr ment Pezdiitz is head of the chemistry, and phyncs branch ct the applied ma­terials and physics division at Langley' Center. 
AlUMNUS MAY 19«8 JUNE 
Oil tteeord-
MARRIAGES 
Miss Linda Steele to GEORGE EDGENGTON '56, Feb. 10. JkCss Marie Thcrcsc Dcvorc to JOHN JOSEPH ROSSI '59, April 20. Miss Nanc}- Jean Hacicr lo TI.MOTHY HENTHORN '61, Nfay 4. Miss Ann Hope ^^ilb^ to WALTER ANTHON'Y GARVEY JR '64, April 20. Miss Ramona Lj-nnc Wibon to ROBERT GIL­MARTIN '65. December, 1967. Miss Kay Elaine Stockton to JOSEPH RAY­MOND SEURYNCK '66. April 20. Miss Sue Mack to CHARLES A. KNAUS '67, Sept. 30, 1967. Miss Su.san Gail Schjllz to WILLIAM JAY POLLOCK '67, May 4. 
ENGAGEMENTS 
.Miss Mar>- Kav Dalcv to JOEL HOGGARD '61. Miss Marj- Jo Goggin lo ROBERT NASH '62. .Miss Pat Pahlkc lo PETER SCHNEID '62. Miss MARTHA ELLEN FAIRHURST MA '64 
to Guido Louis Bugni. Xfiss Marcia A. Pcckliam lo GROVER NDC III '65. Miss Marilvn Ann Mvcrs to JOH.N GUILBERT ALLE.V '66. Miss Susan Jane Balscr to JAMES ARTHUR ZELL '66. -Miss Chenl Lulliy to FRANK POTEN^ZIANA '67. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. CARL EIBERGER '52, a son, James Lee, March 25. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH HEMPFLING '52, a daughter. Mr. and Mrs. EMMET CASSIDY '55, a <]aughter, Mary Elaine, March 7. Mr. and .Mrs. PAT DI PASQUALE '55, a daughter, March 6. Mr. and Mrs. R. P. HART '55, a son, Shawn Stephen, Nov. 20. 1967. Mr. and ifrs. JOHN E. GALL.AGHER '56, a son, Joseph Patrick. April 20. Mr. and MIS. ED GORDON '57, a daughter, Oct., 1967. Mr. and Mrs. JACK REINHOLD '57, a daughter, March 10­Mr. and Mrs. WILLUM DOTTERWEICH '58, a daughter, February. Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAif A. SCANLON '58, a son, William Alo>-sius III. March 24. -Mr. and Mrs, BERN.-\RD DIERKS '59, a son, Christopher Daniel, Feb. 28. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN THURIN '59, a son, Shawn Marion. April 20. Mr. and Mrs. J.-V.MES J. R4Y '61, a son, Christopher Lcighton. March 24. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HARTY '62, a son, John Richard Jr. April 23. Mr. and Xfrs. LANCE BABST '64, a dai-ghtcr, Mary Leigh. Tunc 5. 1967. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. DRAJE^^ '64, a son. April 3. Mr. and ^f^s. JOHN P. KIN-PZ '64, a son. John Patrick Jr. Feb. 12. Mr. and ifrs. LARRY GALLICK '64L, a da'-ghter, Helen Patricia. April 3. Mr. and Mrs. MIKE CONNIFF '65, a daughter, Kellic Marie. January. Mr. and Xfrs. JOHN KLUDING '65, a daughter, November, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. BRIAN McCANT*.' '65, a daughter, Tmcey L>*nn. May 1. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT SIRNA '65, a daughter, Michelc Lee. November. 1967. Mr. and Mrs. PETER KESLING '66, a daugh­ter, Bridget Michelle, Jan. 5. Mr. and Mr5. CHARLES T. EISENSTEIN '67, a son, Charles Thomas III, March 12. 
SYMPATHY 
PAUL FENLON LLB '19 on the death of his sister. JOHN P. CULLEN '22 on the death of his wife, March 17. DANIEL J. KELLY '26 on the death of his 
mother, March 11. LOUIS HOUGH '27 on the death of his wife. CARLOS TAVARES '27 on the death of h"is 
mother. HAYES MURPHY '28 on the death of his brother MYRON '31. 
Dr. EDWARD HUTH MA '28, on the death of his wife, De c 8, 1965. 
J. PAUL KELLY '29 on the death of hb mother, March 11. JAMES McGOLDRICK '35 on the death of his father. GORDON MURPHY '37 on the death of his father. THOMAS WHITE '37 on the death of his mother. EDWARD H. FISHWICK '38 on the death of his mother, Feb. 17. EDWARD G. HUFF '40 on the death of his mother, April 30. 
JOHN J. MLYNSKI '40 on the death of his son. 
C. JOHN KIRBY '42 on the death of his father John T. Kirby, a former member of the President's Committee and Advisory Board for College of Commerce, April 2. 
ARTHUR G. KIRBY *43 on the death of his father John T. Kirby, a former member of the President's Committee and Advisory Board for College of Commerce, April 2. 
ROBERT C. WEBER '49 on the death of his father. DICK GARRTTY '51 on the death of his father, Mareh 27. DONALD J. REYNOLDS '53 on the death of his wife, Feb. 28. JAMES W. CAHILL '55 on the death of his wife. May 12. RAYMON'D J. ANDREJASICH '57 on the death of his father. THOMAS BRUDER '59 on the death of hU father. JOHN DELLA VILLA '59 on the death of his wife. LEONARD TROTTA '59 on the death of his father, April 24. RAYMOND K. BOWDEN JR '60 on the death of his father, Feb. 20. EDWARD F. KNESS '60 on the death of his father, Feb. 20. ROBERT E. SMITH '60 on the death of his father, April 19. WILLIAM HUBER '62 on the death of his mother. JAMES BRUDER '63 on the death of his father. JOHN A. BARSTOW '65 on the death of his father. PETER K. CULLEN '65 on the death of his mother, March 17. LAWRENCE KELLY '65 on the death of hU 
father JOHN M. KELLY '41 LLB '46, Hbreh 18. TIMOTHY KELLY '66, on the death of his father JOHN M. KELLY '41 LLB '46, March 18. 
DAVID MLYNSKI '66 on the death of his brother. 
DEATHS 
CHARLES F. VOGT '98, Jan. 28. He is survived by his widow, 313 Washington St. Muncie, Ind. 47305. 
HARRY A. CURTIS LLB'08. He leaves a widow, 2250 Rosemont, Chicago, 111. 60645. ALBERT A. HILKERT '11, Dec. 6. FRANK J. KIRCHMAN JR. LLB '14, January 18. 
LOUIS C. FKITCH '19, Afay 3. He leaves his widow Zula at 216 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46617. 

PAUL LOOSEN '20, Feb. 22. He leaves his widow'. He was president of the Fiist Bank of Okarehe, Olda. and a civic leader. 
JOSEPH H. THOMPSON '21, April 30. He leaves his widow Elizabeth, 100 Erievicw Plaza, CIe%'eland 44114. 
Bro. PATRICK MCCARTHY MS '22. He was a member of the Congregation of the Christian Brothers of Ircland for 72 yeais. He was a former principal of All Hallows HS in the Bronx and former vice-pres. of lona Col. 
EDMUND B. COMYNS '22, October, 1967. 

E. LOUIS CHAUSSEE '24, April 5, in Seal Beach, Cal. He is suriivcd by his wife Vercna and eight children. 
Dr. RALPH M. MCDONALD '24, March 10. CHARLES W. DONAHUE '25, Mart* 17. He leaves a widow, Frances, 943 Pomelo Place, Sarasota, Fh». 35577. 
ROBERT H. SMITH '26, April 19. He leaves 

his widow, 11 Euclid Ave., Summit, NJ 07901. 
HARRY BIEDKA '27, Mkreh 12. He is survived 

by his widow, 5131 N. Natchez Ave. Chicago, HI. 
60656. 
DONALD WILKINS '27, April 3. He is sur­

vived by his widow Margaret, 3712 Cardiff Court, 
Chevy Chase, Md. 
RICHARD C. ELPERS '28, April 27, in Los 

Angeles. 
JOHN W. RICKORO '28, April 18. He is sur­

vived by his wife Margaret, two daughters and 
three sons. Mi3. Rickord lives at 9654 S. Oakley 
Ave. Chicago, 60643. 
RICHARD WEPPNER '28, Feb. 10, in Silver 

Spring, Md. He is survived by his widow and 
four children. 
Sr. M. NAOMI AHERN HHM '29. 
RICHARD PAUL COGAN '30, March 22. He 

lea\TS his widow Mary, 911 Lincoln Way West, 
Mishawaka, Ind. 465M. 
WALTER P. ROSSELIT '30, April 28. 
JOHN R. BLANDA '31. 
HENRY G. O'CONNELL '31. 

MARTIN W. DOWNEY '31, March 18, in Chicago. 
MYRON J. MURPHY '31 LLB '34, May 9. He is survived by his brother HAYES MURPHY '28. 
ArchbUhop PAUL HALLINAN '32. He wns an outstanding leader of renewal in the US while serving as archbishop of Atlanta. 
JOEL W. OSTRANDER '32, March 19. He leaves his wife, Mary Jane, 6965 Paulina, Chicago, 
111. 60626, and six childrcn. 
FRANCIS inCHAEL JOSEPH '33, Nov. 3, 1967. He leaves his widow Catherine, 1307 Madison St. Radfoid, Va. five daughters and two sons. 
CLEMENT F. POWERS LLB '34, April 17. He is survived by his widow Mary Louise, 66 Ocean View Ave., Apt. 53, Santa Barbara, CaliL 93103. 
KENNETH STILLEY '36, March 23. He is survived by his widow, 1216 Bickerton Dr. Clairton, Pi. 
GEORGE P. LANE '37, March 27. He leaves his wife, Dorothy, 171 Killbum Rd. Garden City, L.L, NY. 
MARION J. MAURELLO '39, April. He is survived by his widow Rosa, 110 Fordham Cir., Pueblo, Colo. 81005. 
EDWIN O'CONNOR '39, March 22. Mr. O'Connor was well known for his novels dealing with the Irish in Boston. He is survived by his widow, 10 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass. 02116. 
JOHN M. KELLY '41 LLB '46, Jfarch IS. He leaves a wife, Victoria, 621 Surfsidc Drive, Akron, Ohio, and 13 children, two of whom are graduates of the University, Lawrence '65 and Timothy '66. Judge Kelly, who served on the Akron Common Pleas court, was well known for his even temperament and his brilliant mind. 
HOWARD HILLES LLB '41, April 15. He leaves his wife Ruth, 807 Femdale, Plymouth, Ind. and two children. 
WILLIAM J. BONYAI '43, April 20. He is survived by his widow Kathryn, 120 W. River St., Mtlford, Conn. 06460, a son and five daughters. 
Dr. JAMES F. HARRINGTON '43, April 22. He is survived by his widow, 2613 Rolling Ridge Dr. Logansport, Ind. 46947, four daughters and two sons. 
FRANK M. HERBERT JR '47, May 16. He was publisher and treasurer ol the Atlantic Monthly. 
Rev. CHAMPION CLIFFORD CP MA '51, Feb. 3. 
JAMES J. WALLACE '56, May II, he is survived by his widow Gerri, 11410 Cranston, Livonia, Mich. 48150, and five children. 
FRANK FREIMANN, LLD '62, March 30. HANS H. GRAUERT '63, November 3, 1967. He was a jet navigator and flying off the USS Constellation when he was lost at sea off the coast of Vietnam. He is survived by his parents Dr. and MR . Hans Grauert, 77 Southern Parkway, Rochester, NY. JOHN MOORE '66 in Chicago. 
FACULTY DEATH 

CARL C. WILCOX, May 14 in South Bend after a ten month illness. He headed the mechani­cal engineering department at ND fnmi 1938 to 19S0. He leaves his widow Hazel, 60817 Miami Rd., South Bend, and a daughter. 
AlUMNUS MAY 19<8 JUNE 
•1 / 

WEST TO GOLDEN CALIFORNIA Los Angelans hear Coach Parseghian. 
Universal ND Nights Celebrate Centennial 
CROM New England through the Mid-
Atlantic states and bluegrass coun­try to points west, more than 65 Alumni Clubs gathered to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. Cock­tails and dinner were the style for the evening as professors, coaches and ad­ministrators took to the podiums to bring ND grads up to date on the Campus scene. 
One thing that made UND Night '68 special was the 100th Anniversary of the Alumni Association. Each cere­mony was a spotlight on the image of Notre Dame as reflected in the effort, devotion and dedication of a century of Alumni involvement. 
Besides the installation of new Club officers and the viewing of "1967 Football Highlights," the majority of evening programs included the a\vard­ing of scholarships to promising young athletes and scholars. Heading the award list in celebrations across the country was the Notre Dame Man of the Year Award. These scrolls were presented to ND men whose lives and work reflect the ideals and goals of the University. 
East coast celebrations of Universal Notre Dame Night began April 20 in Pittsfleld, Mass. The Berbhires kicked off the evening with a cocktail hour and dinner for more than 80 Alumni and guests. Highlighting the evening was the presentation of the Father Hesburgh Award to the outstanding scholar-athlete in Berkshire county. This year's recipient was Arthur Mottor of Wahconah Regional HS in Dalton, Mass. Jim Gibbons '53, as­sistant director of public relations at ND, was guest speaker. 
The ND Qub of Portland chose the Congress Hotel as the site of their April 22 UND Night festivities. Russ Niehaus was recognized as the Man of the Year <ind the Judge Lonergaa Scholar-Athlete award was presented to Mike Walsh of Jesuit HS. James D. Cooney '59, Alumni secretary, was the main speaker. 
More than 100 Alumni and guests enjoyed an evening of speakers, awards and the induction of new officers at the UND Night celebration by the ND Qub of Baltimore. Following the presentation of the Baltimore Alumni A\vard to Tony Mileto and a special Honorary Alumni Award to 
SOUTH TO FLORIDA'S CONVENTION EAST TO NYC Mr. and Mrs. John Lonohan, Mr. and Mrs. Ted Twomey Mrs. Gus Hardart, Gerald Sogert 
ALUMNUS MAY 19«8 JUNE 
Baltimore's No. 1 Subway Alumnus, Chuck Burke, Toastmaster Bob Wil­liams introduced the guest speaker, Michael De Cicco, professor of engi­neering, fencing coach and academic adviser to athletes at ND. 
Triple Cities celebrated UND Night with Richard Conklin '59, assistant director of public information at the University, as main speaker. Msgr. Robert B. Davem, executive adminis­trator of Associated Charities of Broome Count)' for Community De­velopment, w^s honored as the Man of the Year. 
Elsewhere in the hubbub of the east, NYC UND Night was at the Waldorf-Astoria April 17, where Gus Hardart was named Man of the Year. May 2 Beekman Arms in nearby Rhinebeck housed Mid-Hudson Valley Clubbers who gathered to hear guest speaker Conklin. He was also on hand to discuss some recent campus changes at the Mohawk Valley Club meeting May 1. 

May 20 the Statler Avas the scene of Buffalo's celebrating of UND Night. Special guest was Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president. Boston Alumni celebrated UND Night with a concert by the ND Glee Club April 19. The evening's festivities, which included a cocktail hour and buffet, were in the New England Life Hall. Man of the Year was Neil Fowler '47. 
George E. Keenen Jr, president of the Keenen-Cashman Co. of Bayonne, NJ, was named Man of the Year by the ND Oub of Central New Jersey at their annual dinner-dance April 20 at die Plainfield Country Club. 
The Shadowbrook was the site of UND Night for the members of the Jersey Shore Club May 2. Entertaining the folks was Athletic Director Ed "Moose" Krause, while John Druze, former assistant football coach under Frank Leahy and Terry Brennan, was honored as the ND Man of the Year. 
UND Night \s-as an occasion for cocktails, dancing and awards for the ND Qub of Philadelphia. At the Martha Washington Room of Presi­dential Apartments April 19, more than 100 Alumni and guests heard Prof. John Houck discuss the nature of the present-day student at ND. Awards for the evening went to Gerry Voit, past vice-president, treasurer and chairman of the Club, who was hon­ored as Man of the Year, and to Ambrose "Bud" Dudley who was pre­sented a special award from the Na­tional Alumni Assoc, in recognition 
mond Broderick, lieutenant governor 
of Pennsylvania. 
The ND Qub of Harrisburg cele­
brated UND Night with a dinner-
dance April 26 at the Country Club 
of Harrisburg. ND Director of Admis­
sions Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC spoke 
to the members and their guests. 
Meeting April 29 at the Holiday Inn South, Erie Clubbers honored Ed­\vard M. Mead, assistant publisher of the Times Publishing Co. in Erie, Pa., as Man of the Year. The featured speaker for the evening was Dr. Ed­ward Cronin, professor in the general program at ND. Sharing the awards with Mead were Cristy Pellican of Our Lady of Peace School, honored as the Most Valuable Grade School Player, and Dennis Satyshur of East HS, honored as the Most Valuable HS Player. 

The Holiday Inn was the spot for UND Night action for the ND Qub of Scranton May 3. Featured speakers for the evening were Richard Conklin and Rev. James Madden CSC '51, chap­lain at Kings College in Wilkes-Barre. 
April 27 the Pittsburgh Qub cele­brated UND Night with a dance at Longue Vue Country Club. Pete Fri­day, outgoing president, made the presentation of the Man of the Year Award to Joe Gasparella, head foot­ball coach and lecturer in the School of Architecture at Carnegie-Mellon U. 
Moving South, UND Night April 27 was the focal point of the 14th Annual ND Convention of Florida Alumni. The Sea Ranch Hotel played host to the 93 guests of the ND Qubs of Greater Miami, Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beadi. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president of the University, outlined for the members and their friends the gradual, not so gradual, intended and some-not-in­tended changes which are taking place at the University. 
Charlie Rudd '54, immediate past president of the ND Club of Fort Lauderdale, presented a check for $500 to Father Joyce, a Club gift to SUMMA. MC for the April 22 cele­bration by members of the ND Club of Central Horida was Jack Bowen, Club president, who did the honors at the House of Beef restaurant in Maitland. 

Meeting seven days later at Stouf­fer's Louisville Inn, Louisville's Club members honored Marion Heffeman as Man of the Year. Director of Public Information James E. Murphy '47 was the evening's featured speaker. Murphy was also on hand the follow­ing day to address the 30 members of the ND Qub of Memphis at their diimer meeting at the Holiday Inn. Northeast of Memphis, Nashville Club­bers held UND Night April 23 with Dean Thomas P. Bergin of the Center for Continuing Education as guest speaker. 
The ND Qub of Virginia held UND Night celebrations in the Holiday Inn May 13. Main speaker for the evening was Phil Faccenda, assistant to the 
U. president. Dean Joseph C. Hogan of the College of Engineering ad­dressed the ND Qub of South Carolina April 22. 
Up Michigan way members of the ND Qub of Lansing listened to speaker 
of his service as president. Special THOAAAS GOZDECKi, JR, JOHN ROHRBACH, BROTHER WILSON guest of the Phiiadelphians was Ray-Congratulation in the Calumet Region. 
ALUMNUS MAY 79(58 JUNE 

Richard Rosenthal, president of the National Alumni Association, at UND Night ceremonies. At the Steinhaus April 26 Alumni viewed the filmed highlights of the 1967 football season. 
Combined with the SUMMA din­ner, Detroit Alumni gathered at the Raleigh House in Southfield for UND Night celebrations. Father Hesburgh addressed the members and their guests. Grand Rapids Clubbers heard Brother Wilson speak at their UND Night celebration April 23. 
The ND Club of Toledo chose the Carranor Hunt & Polo Club in Perrj's­burg for festivities April 17. John R. Malone, a native of Toledo and Dean of ND's new graduate business school, introduced members and guests to the scope and future of ND's graduate program. Presenting a preview of this fall's football schedule was Dan Harsh-man, a graduating varsity player. 
Elsewhere in the Buckeye State, members of the Dayton Club met April 25 at the Kennedy Union on the 
U. of Dayton campus to hear Phil Donahue of WLV-TV and guest speaker Brother Wilson. Brother Wil­son also traveled to Mansfield for their UND Night celebration. 
Canton Clubbers chose April 24 for their UND Night celebrations. At Dick Logan's Steak House about 75 were on hand for the presentation of the 1968 ND Man of the Year Award to William H. Belden. A brief business meeting was held before turning it over to Canton's own John P. Thurin '59, ALUMNUS editor, guest speaker for the evening. 
A 90-minute cocktail hour followed by a steak dinner in the elegant Veronese Room of the Hotel Alms provided an unbeatable atmosphere for the Cincinnati Club's festivities. More than 150 Alumni and friends heard Prof. James Carberry, an as­sistant coach in the Old-Timers foot­ball game each spring, and Don Miller of Four Horsemen fame. The Man of the Year Award was presented to Chuck Lima '58, a past football star at ND and 1965-66 president of the ND Alumni Assoc, of Cincinnati. 
Dr. Edward J. Cronin, associate professor of literature, was the main speaker when Alumni and friends of the ND Club of younsstown met for a social hour and dinner at the Cotil­lion Room in Church Hill April 23. 
The Midwest, populated wth many ND Alumni, proved to be "the" area for UND Night celebrations. One of the earliest observances was by the Fort Wayne Club which met April 17 at Orchard Ridge Country Club. Jim 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
In Chicago a Marine Says "Thanks" 
By Capt. Jack Gleason III '65 
In speaking before the Notre Dame 
Club of Chicago with its long his­
tory of patriotism I do not feel that 
I need justify or present an apology 
for the Vietnam War. Let it suffice 
for me to say that I sincerely be­
lieve that seldom has a man been 
able to live more fully according to 
the ideal of God, Country and 
Notre Daune than as a member of 
the Armed Forces participating in 
the defense of the Republic of Viet­
nam against an enemy seldom 
equalled in cruelty or in complete 
disregard of basic human and in­
dividual rights. 
I find this award, given by you tonight, especially encouraging. One of the things which impressed me most about the airmen, soldiers, sailors and marines with whom I served in Vietnam \vas that al­though these men were daily fight­ing to preserve our American so­ciety as we know it, many of them, because of their economic or edu­cational background, had not as yet shared in the many benefits which our society ofTers—perhaps most notable among these benefits being the opportunity for a college education. These men do not have the insured future and standard of living that a college degree pro­vides. All they can claim, for the present, is a deep faith in America, its promises and future. 

Contrast this, if you will, with the often petty juvenilism and at times treacherous behavior emanat­ing from some of our college cam­puses. I speak of such acts as the burning of the American flag and physical assaults upon representa­tives of industry. Such acts are per­formed by individuals who have in many cases never experienced hunger, never felt pain and per­haps never earned a dollar through honest labor—and yet are enjoying perhaps the greatest benefit any so­ciety can offer, a college education. 
When contrasted to the selfless devotion to the preservation of our 
society exhibited daOy by less for­
tunate Americans serving in the 
Armed Forces, such behavior arouses 
in me a sense of outrage and deep 
injustice. This feeling is, I am sure, 
shared by my fellow members of the 
Armed Forces, even those who have 
not as yet shared the benefits of our 
American society. 
This is why X mentioned earlier 

that this award given by the Alumni 
Association of a major national imi­
versity is an encouraging sign, not 
only to us Notre Dame men, but to 
all members of the Armed Forces 
regardless of economic or educa­
tional background. This award, 
says to us a simple thank-you . . . 
It shows us again that America 
is not peopled by crowds who hurl 
rotten eggs or splash red paint; but 
rather that America is made up of 
responsible citizens who, instead of 
encouraging disorder, express their 
political opinions in the tradiUonal 
American way—the ballot box. 
It is comforting to see that Chi­
cago Alumni of Notre Dame are 
where they must always be, in the 
forefront in expressing to all Amer­
ican servicemen through this award 
tonight the approbation of a re­
sponsible citizenry. 
To conclude my acceptance of this award I would like to take this opportunity to speak for all men of Notre Dame who have served as members of the Armed Forces. We feel privileged to be able to repay by our service the debt we all owe to our American society. We fed honored to be able to have a part in preserving for our children the magnificent opportimities which we have enjoyed such as the right to a Catholic collie education. 
And finally we feel proud to be able to fight for the cause of ex­tending and preserving the oppor­tunities and freedoms which we here in America enjoy for less for­timate and more besieged peoples throughout the world, especially now to those of Southeast Asa. 
Cooney '59 entertained the more than 
80 in attendance. Attorney John H. 
Logan was the 1968 recipient of the 
Man of the Year Award. 
UND Night for the ND Club of 
Indianapolis was April 22 at the Indi­
anapolis Athletic Club. Joining Ed­
mund A. Stephan '33, chairman of the 
Board of Trustees at tlie University, at 
the speaker's podium were Archbishop 
Paul C. Schulte and John D. O'Con­
nor '68, president of the Campus Club. 
Edgar C. McNamara '43 was chosen 
Man of the Year and Steve Jardina, 
a student at Cathedral HS, received 
the Club's scholarship of $4000. Spe­
cial guest for part of tlie evening was 
Senator Ted Kennedy who dropped in 
to visit with Alumni and friends at 
the cocktail liour that preceded the 
dinner. 
Farther north in Hoosierland the HUiart Oub celebrated UND Night in traditional style. About 38 members and guests attended the cocktails and banquet at the lARA Club April 30. The Fort Wayners welcomed Dr. Ed­ward J. Cronin as guest speaker and honored John H. Logan '35, president of Ash Advertising Inc., widi the Man of the Year Award. 
Back at home port the ND Qub of St Joseph Valley held UND Night ceremonies at the Center for Continu­ing Education. Richard Cleary, mana­ger of Bach & Co. in South Bend, re­ceived the Man of the Year Award at the annual dinner. Thomas P. Carney, honorary president of the Alumni Association Board of Direc­tors, did the oratorical honors. 

Nearby in Michigan City, Rev. Jerome J. Wilson CSC addressed the Club members April 20; and in Mus­kegon James D. Cooney did the honors at the Red Vest restaurant. In the Evans\'ille area of Indiana, Tri-State Qubbers welcomed Richard Rosenthal as guest speaker May 1. 
In Whiting, Ind. John M. Rohr­bach of CrouTi Point was named Man 
of the Year at the Calumet Qub's an­
nual observance of UND Night Main 
speaker was Brother Wilson. 
Kansas City's Hereford House wit­
nessed an April 18 dinner-meeting at 
which 70 Alumni and wives heard 
James W. Frick, ND's vice-president 
for public relations and development, 
discuss this year's anniversary theme. 
Awarded the Club's aimual Man of 
the Year honor was John Fallon '48, 
attorney and president of the Mis­
souri State Chamber of Commerce. 
His son Mike, a freshman at the Uni­
versity, accepted the award in his ab­
sence. In St Louis Club members held 
UND Night celebrations April 17 and 
listened to main speaker Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce CSC. 
UND Night was celebrated with a packed house April 20 at the Under­wood Court in Wauwatosa, Wis. by the Milwaukee Clubbers. Heading the evening's program was a musical score provided by a group of Marquette 
U. Variety Players. Principal speaker of the evening was Club President Joe Mesec. Chairman of this year's annual celebration and president of the Club for tvvo years John Schloegel '54 re­ceived the Man of the Year Award. 

Right at home in the saddle were members of the ND Club of Green Bay who held UND Night festivities at Oneida Golf & Riding Club. Dudley Birder, a professor in the college of music at St. Norbert Col. in DePere, Wis., was presented the Man of the Year Award. The main speaker was Brother Wilson who talked about the qualifications for entrance at ND. 
The Des Moines Club held their an­nual UND Night in conjunction with the Drake Relays April 27. The ban­quet was in Babe's restaurant with about 90 persons in attendance. Alan Page was the featured speaker. Al­phonse Babe Bisignano, Des Moines restaurant owner, was named Man 
BILL UNGASHICK, MIKE FALLON, JIM FRICK A son stands in for his father in Kansas City. 
O'KEEFFE 
of the Year in a special presentation. Also in Iowa the ND Club of Dubuque heard Brother Wilson speak April 29. 

Dr. Emil T. Hofman, assistant dean of the College of Science, traveled to Decatur, 111. for their annual banquet May 3 at the Blue Mill restaurant, while Brother Raphael Wilson did the honors in Rockville. 
The Grand Ballroom of the Conrad Hilton provided the gala setting for Chicago's UND Night attended by 500 Alunmi who gathered to celebrate the 100th Anniversary of the ND Alumni Association. Edmund A. Stephan '33, president of the ND Board of Trustees, was honored as the Man of the Year and a special award in appreciation of all ND men now in military service was given Marine Corps Capt Jack Gleason III '65, who recently returned from Vietnam. 
The Decency in Entertainment Award was given to Wally Phillips, WGN radio personality. From over 100 applicants, John Cekula, Brother Rice HS; Vincent Connelly, St Pat­rick HS; and John Roberts, St. Francis HS (Wheaton) were selected to receive the Club's scholarships. Guest speaker was Maj. General Francis P. Kane, former commanding general of the Illinois National Guard. 
April 30 Alumni from Eastern Illinois assembled at the Luxor in Danville to watch highlights of the 1967 football season and to hear G. Tom Collins, a freshman at ND, present a message on behalf of the Council for the In­ternational Lay Apostolate. 
Nearly 50 Club members, wives and friends of the ND Club of McHenry County hosted guest speaker Prof. John 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

ERRA CONERTY TEHAN VOIT Men of the Year in San Diego, Phoenix, AAcHenry County, Dallas and Philadelphia. 
J. Broderick of the ND College of Law and applauded Man of the Year choice Joseph A. Conerty Jr of Wood­stock. James Barba, president of the ND Student Law Assoc, also joined Broderick at the lectern. The Emerald Hill Country Club in Sterling, 111., is where the Rock River Valley Club held UND Night ceremonies. Roger Valdi­serri, director of sports publicity at ND, spoke to the Club's members May 1. 
Bringing the ND Club of Omaha and Council Bluffs up to date on recent developments and activities on the University campus was head basket­ball coach of the Irish Johnny Dee. At the Blackstone Hotel Ballroom April 5, about 160 ND Alumni, their wives and friends viewed the presenta­
r 
tion of the Man of the Year Award to Thomas A. Walsh Jr '42, an Omaha attorney. Their local tele­vision station was also presented with a plaque of appreciation for the weekly Sunday sho\ving of the 1967 ND Football games. 
In Tulsa, ^vhere Rev. Neil G. McCIuskey SJ, professor of education, was guest speaker April 20, members and friends of the ND Qub of Tuka honored John Bennett Shaw by award­ing him the Man of the Year Award. 
It was a big night in "Big D" when the ND Club of Dallas-Fort Worth held its annual UND Night banquet at the Petroleum Club April 25. First on the evening's agenda •svas Dean Thomas Bergin. Later Hal Tehan '48 was presented a scroll which named 
^ 

I96S Man of the Year Awards 
ND Club Man of the Year 
Boston ...Neil Fowler '47 Calumet Region John M. Rohrbach '23 Canton William H. Belden '36 Cent. New Jersey..Gcorge E. Kecnen Jr '38 Chicago Edmund A. Stephan '33 Cincinnati Chuck Lima '58 Cleveland .T. Edward Carey '34 Dallas-Fort Worth Hal Tehan '48 Des Moines. Alphonse Babe Bisignano '59 Elkhart. James D. Ash '33 Erie Edward M. Mead Fort Wayne John H. Logan '35 Green Bay. ;. JJudley Birder '50 Indianapolis Edgar C. McNamara '43 Jersey Shore John Druze Kansas City. -John Fallon '48 
Louisville. Marion HefTeman '28 McHenry County-Joseph A. Conerty Jr '44 
Milwaukee  John Schloegel '54  
New York  Gus Hardart '42  
Omaha and  
Council Bluffs  Thomas A. Walsh '42  
Oregon  Russ Niehaus  
Philadelphia  Gerry Voit '53  
Phoenix.  Art Erra '30  
Pittsburgh  .Joe Gasparella '50  
Portland  Huss Niehaus  

San Diego. Jlev. Patrick J. O'KeefFe St Joseph Valley Jlichard Cleary '50 Triple Cities Msgr. Robert B. Davem Tri-Cities .B. J. Hank Jr. '49 Tulsa . 1967 William Sherry '21 1968 John Bennett Shaw '37 
J 

him the ND Man of the Year. Mean­while in Houston, the annual obser­vance took place at The Briar Club featuring guest sfieaker Rev. Thomas Brennan CSC. April 15 the NO Oub of San Antonio was visited by Tom Pagna. 
Doivn Mexico way, the Sun Room at the Albuquerque Stmport hosted members of the ND Qub of New Mexico. James D. Cooney, Alumni secretary, did the honors. Farther west the Smokehouse restaurant played host to members of the ND Qub of Phoenix April 17. Tom Pagna, assistant foot­ball coach, was the evening's featured speaker, while Art Erra '30 was named Man of the Year. 
April 24 at the Fort Douglas Hid­den VaUey Club in Salt Lake Cty, that area's Alumni gathei^d for a cocktail party and dinner to hear Rev. Jerome Wilson CSC talk. Also on schedule for the evening was the elec­tion of an official Club chaplain and ratification of a formal Club constitu­tion. Rev. (Lt Col.) Joe O'Brien, assistant commander of the Chaplain Corps of the Air Force Logistics Com­mand, who was visiting in Utah, at­tended the diimer. 
Celebrating in the upper comer of the US map were members, ivives and guests of the ND Qub of Spokane. Held at the Spokane House on Sunset Highway April 23, the attendance number was set at 31. Guest spieaker, fitting for the Centenary of the Alumni Association, was the Asociation's Sec­retary James D. Cooney '59, who sketched ND's history and told of plans for the future. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1W8 JUNE 
Cooney also helped tlie ND Club of Western Washington celebrate the As­sociation's Centennial birthday at the Gold Coast restaurant in Seattle. Highlights of the evening were the presentation of the ND Man of the Year Aw'ard and the announcement of new officers and directors. 
New Oregon Club Pres. Ray Martin presented the Judge Loncrgan Scholar-Athlete .\ward to Mike Walsh of Jesuit HS at their celebration. Charlie Slatt a^vardcd Man of the Year honors to Riiss Niehaus who has been very active in Oregon civic affaire and jjarish and club activities. In honor of his two years of diligent interest in furthcnng Club goals, retiring pres­ident Dr. Ed Scott was given special recognition. 
April 26 was the night and Bali Hai restaurant the place when 60 San Diegans heard speaker Thomas P. Bergin and presented the Man of the Year .\ward to Rev. Patrick J. O'Kecffe. Father O'Keeffe was recog­nized for his work in the preseminary program he established at University HS in San Diego. 
Alumni from the Los Angeles area met at the Hollj'wood-Roosevelt Hotel April 16 to hear Ara Parseghian. head football coach at ND. and movie star Pat O'Brien. April 25 at the ND Club of Sacramento ceremonies and April 29 in Baicersfield James D. Cooney addressed other Alumni. 

T. EDWARD CAREY and GEORGE KERVER Cleveland Men of the Years exchange Congrats. 
HAROLD McKENNA, JIM GIBBONS. ARTHUR MOTTOR JR, DR. BERNARD AUGE. JIM O'BRIEN JR, ARTHUR MOTTOR SR 
Father Hesburgh Award goes to Berkshire Athlete. 
£0 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

In Cincinnati a Professor Spealis of 
STUDENTS THEN AND NOW 
I T WOULD SEEM just that I speak ' to you of what I know of ND. Put another way, why am I there and why will I remain there? In spite of most appealing offers to venture forth to other ivy-covered centers of axcellence, the ND stu­dent prompts me to remain. For it is the ND student and his Ufe in all its manifestations, intellectual, spiritual and political, which fas­cinates me. 
The ND student of today reflects, 
in many important ways, the char­
acter of students in general. He also 
differs in important respects. 
\Vhat is my authority in the mat­

ter? Certainly fallible, yet one 
which is rooted in broader and 
deeper involvement with students 
than can be claimed by press pho­
tographers, many editors and those 
journalists of our media who deem 
themselves philosopher-kings when 
behind a typewriter. 
Now if you grant my premise that the data submitted to your in­telligence by the usual media are somewhat less than complete, you are entitled to a more compre­hensive picture. Based upon the experience of my colleagues and my own contacts with students at two universities, I will assert that today's student is properly con­cerned about real issues which never moved my generation. By real issues, I mean issues which now concern us; specifically, I refer to civil and international rights, personal and public morality—in sum, the values of modem society, intellectual, moral and spiritual. 
Insofar as my generation has failed to resolve these key issues in an intelligent manner, I fail to see why we gainsay our offspring for failing to resolve the same issues. After all, we—you and I—are in the game. They—the students— are only scrimmaging, an exercise designed to allow mistakes, test the contestants and so prepare them for the game. 
How, may I ask, did you and I prepare for the issues which we now confront? I confess that fol­lowing W^V II which, even by modem standards I still consider a just war, I went merrily off to school to study, relax and study while back in the world, Stalin de­voured a substantial portion of Europe. I recall no protests, no marches, no domestic political con­cern. Civil rights meant the GI Bill. Communism was an ironclad ideology, identical to Blue Cross Medical Insurance—both of which could be capably erased via some un-American Activities Committee Legislation. 
Spiritual life was simple. Since I 
had to appear at Mass three times 
a week, two things were assured: 
my salvation and a free Saturday 
night in South Bend. That was 
postwar Notre Dame: rigorous 
classes; prefabricated religion and 
more fluid diversions at Sweeney's. 
It wasn't terribly different at 
New Hax'en afterwards. But it was 
Mories instead of Sweeney's. In 
sum, if I may say, we of that gen­
eration were concerned about our­
selves—perhaps properly so; I'll not 
contest either position. But I can 
assert that today's student is now 
free (by virtue of perhaps our gen­
eration's self-concern which assures 
their affluence). Today's student is 
free to concern himself with issues 
outside himself—civil rights, peace 
and education at home and abroad. 
But, it might be objected, they are burning draft cards, sporting beards and long hair, smoking pot, harassing the De\v Chemical Co., picketing ROTC parades and, it seems, attempting to take command of their universities. Some Notre Dame students can be so charac­terized. 
For, while we haven't an opium den on Campus, nor are draft cards and American flags being ignited, we have beards, long hair, protests and academic Tom Paines. This image contrasts sharply with that ideal which we adults fashion in our own minds—the crewcut, boot-camp novena-going, American Le­gion lad. Well, they are from our loins and, for my part, proudly so generated. 
Would that the Hitlerjugend had let tlieir crew cuts grow and their minds and tongues be more free. Lenin sported a beard, but so did Christ and Lincoln and now a Notre Dame sophomore member 

of the campus Weight Lifting Club. 
Today's student does not i-ess as 
did and do you and I—though it 
must be noted that some do adorn 
themselves as did and do our wives. 
Let us face it: We, most of us, 

are over 30 and subject to all the 
dogmatism flesh and memory are 
heir to. Last Februar>^ while stroll­
ing across the Yale campus, a fel­
low alumnus mused, "Whatever 
happened to all those healthy, ar­
rogant-faced Episcopalians we used 
to have here?" And we mia;ht be 
so tempted in a stroll across the 
Notre Dame Campus: "Where are 
we?" 
Well, we are not there. Others, 

our dear issue, are there. And they 
are not us, but true derivatives of 
us. They are what we hadn't the 
time to be, nor the leisure to be. 
They are proper and proud pro­
jections. We could hardly be proud 
of simply reproducing ourselves in 
mind, attitude and viewpoint. 
It was a 13th-century sage who 

noted that men in a given age sit 
upon the mountain-like shoulder of 
their predecessors and, by reason of 
that advantage, see the valley more 
clearly than their predecessors. 
That valley is intellectual, moral, 
spiritual. I submit it is clearer to 
those who sit upon our shoulders 
than it was to us. 
We should be understanding, slow to Pavlovian response, mindful of the shoulders we sat upon. Proud of our own, yet humble enough to admit to a view granted only to those we lovingly sustain. After all, by our understanding example and wise counsel, we prepare their shoulders and minds for the terrify­ing tasks to be set before them. 
At Notre Dame, those you sus­tain in so many ways sit before me each class day; freely worship any day; play with zeal every other day; and dwell always upon the real every moment of every day. We sustain them in their independence of view—a view not always wse, but then again how wise were or are we? If we are now wiser than we were, we can all agree with Father Hesburgh when he said, "I would not exchange this, the Notre Dame student body, for any other in this world," 
—James J. Corberry "50. MS '57 
ALUMNUS MAY \96S JUNE 
"is the neutrality on large moral and social issues that the major institutions 

THE UNIVERSITY 
of society have developed," a neutral­
To the Founder of LOBUND 
The University of Notre Dame in 
early June honored the memory of 
the scientist who founded its Lobund 
Laboratory when the facility in which 
he carried on his research was offi­
cially named tlie RejTiiers Gennfree 
Life Building. 
The widow, children, friends and 
former colleagues of Prof. James A. 
RejTiiers attended the ceremony on 
the lawn of the research facility on 
the northeastern edge of the campus. 
Prof. RejTiiers pioneered germfree 
animal research at Notre Dame in 
1928. It grew into the Lobund Lab­
oratory, an organization of nearly a 
hundred scientists and technicians 
which he headed until 1959. From 
then until his death last November 
4th, he continued his research at a 
laboratorj^ he established in Tampa, 
Florida. 
Participants in the program in­cluded Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Notre Dame president; Robert 

F. Er\un, one of RejTiiers' closest col­laborators through the years, now director of medical research ser\'ices for Parke Da\is and Co., Ann Arbor, Mich.; Roger D. Reid, of the Uni­versity' of West Florida, formerly director of the biological sciences division of the Office of Naval Re­search; Prof. Milan J. Kopac, chair­man of the biology' department at New York University and Prof. Morris Pollard, Lobund Laboratory director and chainnan of the micro­bioIog\- department at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Philip S. Moore CSC, former academic vice-president at Notre Dame, was general chainnan for the program. Duplicate portraits of Prof. Reyniers were presented to his widow and to Prof. Pollard for the Lobund Laboratory. A plaque marking the naming of the building in RejTiiers' memorj' was also unvieled. 
All In the Family 
(Continued from page 11) 
The new Club, designed by Robert 

J. Schultz and Notre Dame's archi­tecture department head, Frank Mon­tana, replaces a 44-year-old residence just south of the stadium. Starting next fall, the University Club will serve lunches, a service not provided in the old facility. 
Governor Gore, a pioneer in the development of Florida, created one of the nation's largest international insurance agencies, published for sev­eral years the Fort Lauderdale News, organized banking institutions and developed hotels and motels. 
Six of his nine children are ND 
graduates and he has been a major 
benefactor of the University, as well 
as aiding many charitable organiza­
tions. 
His rare collection of tankards and 
steins which has become the motif of 
the new Club contains many belong­
ing to historical figures such as King 
Ferdinand III of Spain and Napoleon 
Bonaparte. 
Commencement '68 
(Continued from page 7) 

Two people were presented with the doctor of fine arts degree. They were Mrs. John L. Kellogg, widow of the former president of the Kellogg Co., and donor of the new Planner res­idence hall (see p. 5) and Walter Kerr, Sunday drama critic for The New York Times. 
A highlight of the afternoon was the presentation of the Alumni Associa­tion's award for distinguished service to the University. This year's award went to Rev. Charles E. Sheedy CSC who is retiring as dean of the Arts and Letters college after 15 years to become dean of the University's the­ological studies and institutes. 
The Thomas P. Madden Award was presented to Dr. Bernard Norling, associate professor of history. The award was created in 1963 to recog­nize distinguished teaching of fresh­man courses at the University. 
In the main address Dr. Perkins told the graduates and their families, "What was viewed as great progress by my generation is now viewed as a gigantic conspiracy by the next . . . The result is e-xplosive frustration on the one hand and defensive appeals for law and order on the other. We must find ways to break the jam-up .. . by recreating a progressive style and momentum." 
He pointed out that, ironically, suc­cess spoiled the revolutionists of the 1930s. They managed to effect a suc­cessful rapprochement among the four major social institutions: government, business, labor and the university; they turned management of this intercon­perts, and, finally, they achieved nected enterprise over to neutral ex-results in terms of full employment and a steadily rising gross national product However, the result, Perkins said, "has been to turn the promising instruments of reform into the founda­tion of the establishment itself." 
The educator noted that another factor influencing the generation gap 
ity which came with the concept of 
the expert manager handling social 
engineering. 
"Today there are ambitions ram­pant that will in all probability be too powerful for the old doctrines of con­sensus and administrative neutrality to cope with," the educator suggested. "The Negro is saying that accommo­dation and neutrality are not good enough if they deny me social equal­ity. The 19-year-old facing the draft says that accommodation and neutral­ity are not good enough if they force me to fight a war I neither understand nor approve. The poor are saying that accommodation and neutrality are not enough if they cannot provide us with bread and work." 
Dr. Perkins endorsed institutional changes, and said he believed that democracy was "fle.xible and resilient enough" to make them. 
He suggested some possible changes which could be made as first steps: lowering the voting age to 18; inten­sifying the efforts of government, in­dustry and labor to involve young people in summer intern programs; and developing and carrying out im­aginative programs whereby students can be brought into the management of the university, including the area of academic affairs. 

While he did not suggest a return to the "domestic battles of the '30s," Dr. Perkins did urge "a loosening of the lies among government, labor, business and the universities." 
"These institutions will have to become more critical of each other, and they can do this only if they are not so closely bound by interest and inclination to each other's goals." He added that the tendancy of the mod­em university to lean on government and corporate financial support "has been known to result in a slowinar down of the university's critical faculties." 
Concluding, Dr. Perkins remarked, "Above all, it is necessary that our large institutions, the people who manage them, and the jieople who operate them, must be dissatisfied, for dissatisfaction is the beginning of change and, I think, progress." 
Dr. Perkins' address and the con­ferring of degrees were the conclusion of three days of activities which climaxed in graduation. Friday night a band concert was held in Stepan Center for the seniors and their families. Saturday's events included the last official visit of the Class of '68 to Sacred Heart Church, Class day exercises and the awarding of senior prizes. Commissioning ceremonies were held and 230 seniors received commissions, including 130 Army second lieutenants, 48 Air Force sec­ond lieutenants, 42 Navy ensigns and 10 Marine second lieutenants. The main speaker for the ceremony was Vice Admiral Benedict J. Semmes Jr, commander of the Navy's Second Fleet and of Striking Atlantic Fleet. 
Receptions sponsored by the differ­ent colleges and by the University for the families followed, with a Glee Club concert Saturday evening. 
Sunday's Baccalaureate Mass and Commencement concluded activities for OTaduation 1968. 
Keeping the Peace 
(Continued from page 5) 

eral assembly package. He indicated that students could meet with the Trustees' ad hoc committee, but most students found the tone of the letter patronizing. 
Reaction against the letter and the suspiension announcement combined to produce ill feeling %vithin the student body. The dissatisfaction was such that plans were laid for a sit-in in the Administration Building until the parietal-hour violations question was resolved. A confrontation appieared imminent, but a late-night conference between Fr. Hesburgh and an un­identified student resulted in the four being readmitted, though placed on probation. In a second letter to the students. Father Hesburgh made it clear that further violations would not be treated so benignly. 
Against this backdrop the first meet­ings between student body represen­tatives and members of the Board of Trustees took place. 
In concluding its statement, the Board of Trustees invoked the "com­posite good sense and good will, and fairness and generosity of the total Notre Dame community—to reaffirm and reinforce all that has made this University unique and unusual in the past, together wt h whatever new in­sights and efTorts may be brou^t to 
the present task of making Notre 
Dame a more excellent institution of 
higher learning. While the Board 
recognizes the need of the University 
to adapt itself to an changing world, 
it is firmly resolved to hold fast to 
those values that have made Notre 
Dame an enriching experience, in­
tellectual and spiritual, for so many 
thousands of her sons." 
Commenting on the subsequent 

statement by the Trustees, Rev. 
Charles I. McCarragher CSC, vice-
president for student affairs and prob­
able chairman of the committee in the 
fall, noted, "The students have been 
saying for a long time that they don't 
have enough voice in the decisions 
that affect their lives. Now they will 
have it." 
Rossie, on the other hand, dis­

agreed. He claimed he was "mod­
erately happy" with the results of the 
meetings, though there could be areas 
of improvement, especially in how 
much representation the students 
would have on the new committee. 
In any case plans are being laid 

now for next year and the tripartite 
board hopes to have a groundwork 
laid so that the process will continue 
without interruption when the next 
school year begins. 
"We're not clear yet on just what 

the exact set-up will be," noted 
Father McCarragher. "In many ways 
this nnv group will have to define 
itself and its role." 
Rossie hopes to make sure the stu­dent voice is heard. "The Board of Trustees," said the student leader, "in making this committee a three-part organization was trying to be sure that all decisions would be community af­fairs, that we wouldn't have faculty and administration versus the stu­dents, or some split like that. Their main concern was community; mine, however, is democracy." 
The distinction will be expounded this fall. 
The R ^ to... 
A significant peace movement ap­peared at Notre Dame this year and found its climax in an attempt to stop the annual Presidential Review of ROTC personnel on May 7. The sit-in during the parade by more than 300 students also maked a week-long campus pteace effort, called Seven Days In May, sponsored by a new union of anti-war groups at the Uni­versity called the Campus Coalition for Peace (CCP). 
The peace movement first showed 
THE '68 PRESIDENTIAL REVIEW ConfrontaKon on parade grounds. 
«3 
its strength this fall when more than 

SPORTS 
100 students drove, flew, and hitch­hiked to Washington to take part in 
the October March against the Viet­nam war. Another gi-oup picketed die South Bend induction center several times, and later in die year a spokes­man for die Notre Dame-Saint Mar)''s Students for Peace read a statement ccHidemning American action in Viet­nam at die speech in the Library Auditorium by Gen. Harold Johnson, Army chief of staff. 

The anti-war faction seemed to grow as the year progressed. Students trained by a Quaker group in Chicago counseled other students on ways to meet the direat of the draft and how to acquire conscientious objector status. The Dow Chemical Co., maker of much of the napalm used by the Allies in Vietnam, was hit tivice by campus demonstrations during recruiting and during a conference which die president of the company attended. 
In late April die several active peace groups combined with many unorganized factions into the CCP, and the coalition began ^\^dl the week-long program including a teach-in, anti-Vietnam war films, and finally die sit-in during the military review. 
Despite efforts by Student Body President Rich Rossie (himself a war critic) die demonstrators were not satisfied wt h protesting behind die renewing stand and at a given signal more than half the 500 present ran out onto die field to sit down in the line of marcii of die 1400 ROTC members, who eventually marched around the seated protestors. "We. had to do it", said Bill Rcishman, chairman of the CCP. "^Ve had to have a real but non-violent confronta­tion." 
Their action, however, was cen­sured by 3,000 members of the stu­dent body who signed a petition affirming the demonstrators' right to make their feelings known, but chal­lenging their attempt to block a dem­onstration by odiers. A bill brought before the student senate by Student Body Vice-President Tom McKenna and ASP chainiian Jon Sherry which would have suggested the banning of ROTC on campus also failed. 
Most of die protestors, though, diought their point had been made. Most had praise for die administra­tion for keeping order during the protest and for stopping several stu­dents who wanted to bodily drag the protestors off the field. Said senior Mike Ryan, "Two years ago we had 25 protestors at the review; last year we had something over 100; this year there were more tiian 500." 
a 
"COME ON, YOU SOONERS!" 
U OST COACHES are wary of acquiring ' " the distinction of being "the team to beat." From a psychological point of view, such a pre-season status is almost as troublesome as defending a national championship. But there's no national championship for the 1968 Fighting Irish to defend, and while the coaches \vill admit to potentials and possibilities, they insist that "there's still a lot of hard work ahead for these boys." 
The team will be back on campus Aug. 29 to pick up that hard work where they left it off recentiy at the annual spring game. This year the ti-aditional Old Timer's Game was replaced with a Blue-Gold intra-squad game. The scarcity of available Old Timers—due to military service or increasingly restrictive pro con­tracts—made the change necessary, and the coaches were pleased with its results. "We're able to look at many more players in a game like this," said Defensive Coach John Ray. He added, "Everybody on the field is 'us,' which permits us to look at at least 50 or so boys." 
Head Coach Ara Parseghian and his staff are faced widi a few problems —problems like replacing eleven start­ing positions vacated by graduation. But they seem to have a few solutions . . . solutions like an offensive line that Coach Jerry Wampfler says is "as good or better than the line of two years ago (1966 National 
JOE THEISAAANN The 4th string surprise of the season. 
two years ago ('66 National Champs)." 

At the pivot of that line, look for senior Tim Monty, who right now has the edge over Larry Vuillemin. Vuil­lemin has been slowed down by a bad shoulder. In an effort to "get our si.x best linemen in the game at one time," Wampfler is doing a little juggling up front. He said he will ex­periment with moving Jim Rcilly from his last year's tackle spot into guard in order to give Chuck Ken­nedy—"a good consistent blocker"— a shot at left offensive tackle. Co-captain George Kunz, whom Wamp­fler said "has made tremendous strides in improving his pass protection," will be at right tackle. Tom McKinley currently has the edge at the other guard spot, but 243-pound sophomore Larry DiNardo is putting some pres­sure on him. AVampfler looks to junior Terry Brennan and Mike Martin, a sophomore, to provide depdi at the tackle slots. 
Tight ends Jim Winegardncr and Dewey Poskon were impressive in the spring game, but Winegardner seems to be the pick so far. Jim ScjTnour, after what his coach calls "his usual very good spring," will be at split end. George Eaton, a sophomore, will back up Seymour. 
Terry Hanratty will again be the number one signal caller among a group of Notre Dame quarterbacks which Wampfler says constitutes "the most depth at quarterback I've ever seen in a college football team." Coley O'Brien will serve as Hanratty's back­up man but will also return punts and fill in at safety. Bob Belden, die third senior quarterback, underwent surgery on his knee this spring and as a result saw very little action. Wampfler says he will be ready for the fall, however. 
The surprise of the spring was con­sidered by many to be 170-pound Joe Theismann, a wry young field general up from the 1967 freshman squad. Di­recting the freshmen and reserves against the varsity in the Blue-Gold game, he completed 20 of 43 passes for 277 yards. After the game, Ara commented, "Joe throws the ball real well." But Joe also runs the ball real well and with his arm and quickness he will be pushing the senior quarter­backs. "He's awfully small," said Wampfler, "but he's tougher than nails." 
Jeff Zimmerman, who was ham­pered this spring with a pulled ham­string, will probably get the starting 
ALUMNUS MAY 1948 JUNE 

nod at fullback, with Ron Dushney backing him up. Leading contenders for tlie halfback slot include Bob Gladieux, a runner Wampfler says "has a lot of savvy—he reads off the blocks real well—he'll run to daylight for us." Frank Criniti, "a hard-nosed little devil," and Ed Zeigler will fight it out for the other halfback job. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
HANRATTY to SEYMOUR What else but a good spring? 
ZIMMERMAN at FULLBACK 

Most of the stafPs pre-season un­easiness has centered around the search for replacements for the S-O-S defensive secondary of Jim Smith­berger, Tom O'Leary and Tom Schoen. Tom Quinn, Don Reid and Curt Heneghan all got limited expe­rience in the backfield last year, but only Quinn played enough to letter. 
Four sophomores are currently vying for a spot in the secondary; Ernie Jackson, Steve Wack, Chuck ZIoch, and Jim Sheahan. 
Linebackers Dave Martin, John Pergine and Mike McGill have ako gone the graduation route, leaving three big holes to be filled. Co-captain Bob Olson will start at inside line­backer. Good bets for the outside slots are Tim Kelly and Jim Wright, who is the son of former ND quarter­back Harry Wright. 
The front four will probably con­sist of a meaty quartet like Pete Donohue, Tom Reynolds, Mike Mc­Coy and Bob Kuechenberg. 
Winners of the 1968 Hering Awards were: Mike McCoy, outstanding de­fensive lineman. Bob Olson, outstand­ing defensive linebacker; Tom Quinn, outstanding defensive back; Chuck Kennedy, most improved lineman; George Kunz, outstanding offensive lineman; Bob Gladieux, outstanding ofTensive back; Jim Seymour, out­standing offensive receiver; Larry Di Nardo, outstanding offensive freshman lineman; Joe Theismann, outstanding freshman back—offense; Jim Wright, Jim Kelly, outstanding freshman line­backers; Ernie Jackson, outstanding freshman defensive halfback. 
Wampfler said the staff has re­cruited what they consider a "real fine freshman team — ^vhich includes boys from the states of Washington to Ala­bama to New Jersey." 
But the test of the varsity's hard work will begin to show Sept. 21, the season's opener with Oklahoma, and again on the next Saturday with Rir­due. a game Wampfler says looks to be "a real dogfight." The 1968 schedule: 
Sept. 21—Oklahoma 
28 — Purdue 
Oct. 5 — at Iowa 
12 — Northwestern 
19 —Illinois 
26 —at MSU 
Nov. 2 — at Navy 
9 — Pittsburgh 
16 — Georgia Tech 
30 —at use 

As Opening Night Nears 
Basketball, hockey, track, field, volley­ball, weightlifting, boxing, handball; ice shows, music shows, circus shows, dog shows, trailer shows, bridge tournaments; "We also aim to sell a lot of popcorn." 
So says Mr. John Plouff, managing director of the University's new multi­purpose, multi-million dollar double-domed Athletic and Convocation Center. The new center contains two separate domes and covers more square feet than the University's li­
tis 
brary, is longer and wider than the 
stadium, with acres of parking space. 
"This building is primarily univer­sity-oriented. It is first of all for the students and faculty of Notre Dame." Fast moving to completion since its summer of 1966 ground-breaking, the new structure houses liandball courts, a weighdifting room, four alternate gyms, athletic offices, and enough room for a varsity basketball contest, a hockey game, indoor track practice, and baseball training all at the same time, not to mention a fencing tourna­ment, innumerable games of squash and handball, a 1,000-guest dinner, and a sports-car show. 
The building will be opened offi­cially for die public in December, though Plouff says the staff plans to have all the facilities ready for the students when they return in tlie fall. The dedication itself will take place before the ND-UCLA basketball game, and \%ill include big-name entertain­ment, tliough final arrangements have not been confirmed. 
Eight-and-a-half million dollars ac­cording to Plouff is the price tag for the building alone, with more to go for the interior. There were plans for even more extensive features, but die Olympic pool had to go when prices rose too high. Neverdieless, a pool will be built when the money does become available. "We had to cut something, and since the Rockne Memorial has a pool we figured this would be the best place." 
The South Bend community, which contributed $1.8 million of the total, will get a lot of use out of the struc­ture. Organizadons have already ex­pressed an interest in using the build­ing, and it will definitely fulfill a need. "In this area, the best place you can get for a large banquet holds only 600 people," Plouff explained. "We can get a thousand in here \wthout any trouble at all." 
Tickets for games in the new center, especially varsity basketball, are in an uncertain stage now. Ticket manager Robert Cahill reports diat there vnll probably be no individual game sale of tickets, except possibly for three home games during die student Christmas break. Allotments for the season wU go to box seat subscribers, students, faculty, the CSC community, the visiting team, and the band and St. Mary's girls, with perhaps five thousand tickets available out of the total 11,500 for Alumni and public sale. 
Ticket information will be available in the next ALUMNUS, and more detailed information sent to football and former basketball season ticket holders, and those who have expressed 

BOOKS 
On Strength of C3tholic Schools 
THE PURPOSE OF CATHOLIC SCHOOLING by Jomes Michael Lee, National Catholic Educational Assoc. |No. 3 of the NCEA Papers, Box 6S7, Dayton, Ohio 45401), 80 pp., $1.50. 
In this time of radical reassessment in Catholic education. Dr. Lee's book brings us a fund of fact and principles to guide action as well as discussion. It 
•willbe welcomed by administrators in the field as well as theorists; it is es­sential reading for both happy innova­tors and worried traditionalists, for the new breed and the old. 
From his own background of wide experience and scholarship. Dr. Lee has managed in six dozen readable pages to combine a philosophical-theological analysis of the issues in education against a sufficiendy thor­ough historical and contemporary background of past development and current challenges. There is a valuable study of the strengths and weaknesses of the two opposing positions on the purpose of schooling. The Moralist Position emphasizes as the primary and even exclusive function of the Catholic school the student's growth in moral intelligence and Christian character. The Intellectualist Position ranks as primary the student's intellec­tual development. 
In the course of developing his In­tegralist Position or approach. Dr. Lee examines the views of important au­thorities and administrators and makes effective use of recent research investi­gations and opinion surveys in Ameri­can Catholic education. Building upon these three constituents—understand­ing, action and love—he builds up his primary proximate purpose in terms of outcomes to achieve, means to achieve them and dangers to be avoided through boldness of diought and attack. 
Dr. Lee ends with a general direc­tive and vision that is full of urgency as well as inspiration for educators. But he writes as well for all those "intelligent enough to be concerned" (Bishop Wright's phrase) among theo­logians and philosophers, parents and clergy, religious and lay teachers and Catholic alumni. The reader concludes the author considers diat Catholic schooling has a vital place in Ameri­can society but that steps %rill have to be taken in the directing of our thinking and efforts to maintain and strengthen that position. 
— Bro. Majella Hegarly CSC '27 
Ahout the History of 3n Ide3 
THEORY AND PRAaiCE: HISTORY OF A CON­CEPT FROM ARISTOTLE TO MARX fay Nicholos Lobkowicz, UND Press, 442 pp., S8.95. 
This book is the outcome of five 

an interest by writing to Cahill at the JIM LEE and a HIGH SCHCX}L COUNTERPART University's athletic ticket office. The Catholic school is needed here and now. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 

years of intense research. The author's original intention was to write a brief summary of the doctrine of theory and practice in Soviet philosophy. To do this in a satisfactory way, he found he had to go back to Marx, above all, to understand his idea of revolution­ary practice. This led to research into the origins of Marx' thinking among the Left Hegelians and in Hegel's phi­losophy itself. From here it proved irresistible to further pursue the his­tory of the notions of theory and prac­tice, virtually to the origins of Greek thinking. 
Accordingly, the book begins with Materials for a Prehistory. In this sketchy but fascinating account, the author deals with the following topics: "the opposition between philosophy and politics in die Greeks; the dis­sociation of theory proper from con­templation in Neoplatonism . . .; the gradual transformation of a basically atheoretical 'practical philosophy' in the Greeks into the 'practical philoso­phy' of the post-Cartesian period, which actually is only an 'applied the-or)''; the emergence of a 'theory' in­volved in 'making" and 'production'; etc." (p. XII). 
The second part — From Hegel to Moses Hess — contains an interesting introduction to Hegel and a detailed treatment of discussions concerning the problem of theory and practice among the followers and reformers of the Hegelian movement (A. V. Cieskowski, D. F. Strauss, F. Richter, 
B. Bauer, A. Ruge and M. Hess). The third and final part — Marx 
— is an excellent account of all the important dimensions in the thinking of Marx during the years 1841-1845: the discovery of the role of the pro­letariat; the different sides of the problem of alienation; the reaction against L. Feuerbach and M. Stimer. Toward die end, the problem of revo­lutionary practice emerges in the con­text of Marx' critique of political economy and with his discovery of his­torical materialism. The book ends with a discussion of the ambiguity in Mai-x' thought between activism and the view of a specific historical prog­ress as inevitable. 
The book is original in conception, interesting in its general philosophical reflections and informative in the de­tails of erudition. 
—Karl G. Batleilrem 

For Smoke Abatement 
PROFILE OF A PRECINCT COMMIHEEMAN by Prof. Paul Bartholomew '29, Oceana Publications, 208 pp. 
Profile is a no-nonsense, down-to­earth book. The political theoretician, 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
PROFESSORS BARTHOIOAAEW and CRONIN With friends and acquaintances in background. 
Professor Bartholomew, has shown the 
political practitioner—^Professor Cro­
nin, himself a precinct committeeman 
—what he, as a composite, looks like. 
So, if I may, I say "I" from now on. 
"I" look pretty much like the 
people I try to get registered and to 
vote on election day. I do not chomp 
on cigars, wear a derby on the back 
of my head or swing deals in a cloud 
of smoke. I have been an active party 
man for at least six years; I work at 
politics pretty hard during election 
months and not so hard or not at all 
during "off years." 
I am sometimes the very taproot of my party and sometimes I am a dead branch that should have the good grace to fall off or be lopjied off by the county chairman, had he the courage or even the concern to swing the axe. A "joiner" I am not; I became a precinct committeeman from the highest political principles and also because no one else was around to take the job. I have all sorts of ideas about patronage and all sorts of ideas—or none at all— about how my party can be improved. I am, as I said, quite like the person I drive to the polls on election day. 
I do not wish to imply that Pro­fessor Bartholomew's book is incon­clusive. My good friend and colleague has simply told it "like it is." 
The great bulk of the book is a pro­file, not of a precinct committeeman, but of Professor Bartholomew's own Third Congressional District of Indi­ana—its make-up and its voting sta­
tistics from 1948 to 1960. I have examined these interesting figures mi­nutely and I can find only one error. Professor Bartholcnnew reifeis to Ire­land as "Erie." 
For shame! 
—Prof. Edward J. Oonin "38 

Toward Rededicatioii 
RETREAT DYNAMICS by Rev. Joseph B. Simons CSC '57, Fides Publishers Inc. Notre Dome, 189 pp., $4.95. 
A retreat each year is the Church's answer to every man's inward need for help in rededicating himself to Christ. It b an opportunity for the individual to put aside his daily tasks and spend a few days in a spiritual renewal and uplift so that he is again ready to fight the batde for his salva­tion through Christ's love. 
There is much controversy by clei^ and laymen alike with regard to the use of group discussion during a retreat. In a very precise and ctai­
vincing manner. Retreat Dynamics 
presents the case for the use of dialogue in the retreat format as op­posed to the traditional silent retreat Many a retreatant who would be a follower of the silent retreat should find much food for thought. 
Vatican II stated that to love Christ is to love your nei^bor and, when applying this to retreats, the use of group dynamics gives the individ­ual the opportunity in a communal way to better understand that his problems are also his neighbor's prob­
FATHER SIMONS '57 Dialogue for retreats 
lems and, diroiigh discussion , and dialogue, answers will be found. 
This is not to say that the entire retreat should be devoted to discus­sion and dialogue. Father Simons points out there is still the need for periods of silence \vherc meditation and prayer give the retreatant the op­portunity to digest what has been dis­cussed and thereby develop a better understanding and love of Christ and of neighbor. 
Included is a chapter on the Cur­sillo movement which should stir comment, particularly from those men and women who have partici­pated in it. The book should be read Ijy eveiyone who realizes the value of retreats. 
—Henry J. BoHwig Jr '52 
Tantalizing Question 
WHICH WAY GERMANY? by Harry W. Flannery '23 ond Gerharf H. Seger, Howthorn Books Inc., NYC, 246 pp., Si5.95. 
Which way GeiTnany? It is a pity tlie autliore failed to satisfy the nat­ui"al curiosity diis tantalizing question arouses. But Flanneiy and Seger, both journalists, have given us more report­age than analysis. Their technique is tliat of die camei-aman hastily snap­ping shots of tlie landscape as he moves, radier speedily, across it. 
Their snapshots do manage to con­tain a host of worthwhile detail that will be of interest to the average on­looker. The chapters on Berlin, the reunification problem, the economy, religion and culture will give die reader a good fast glimpse of contem­poraiy Gemiany. The three chapters devoted to Germany's leading political parties are largely made up of bio­gi-aphical sketches, interspersed widi considerable anecdotal material, of party leaders. 
It is die reader, however, who is left with the burden of interpreting die details of die book in terais of die principal question put by the authors. To this extent the book informs, but does not enlighten. 
The authoi-s take considerable en­couragement from what they see in modem Germany. They see, for ex­ample, industrial vigor, a firm coin­age, cradle-to-the-grave social security (more than any other country in the AVcst) astride a healdiy system of free entei-prise, a hardworking people, a consumer economy, social order and cultural serenity. 
That this activity and stability some­how add up to political democracy is die unspoken premise of this book. Ac­tually die most active and stable so­ciety in die world that I know of is a bee-hive. But a bee-hive is not a democi-acy. Could it be that our au­thors have mistaken die conditions of democracy for democracy itself? 
This book also seems uncritically to assume diat the suivival of German democracy is dependent upon a policy 

Nofes on the authors and reviewers: JAMES MICHAEL LEE, the author of PAUL BARTHOLOMEW, 
of resistance toward East European Communism and keeping fiiTn the militaiy alliance with NATO and die 
U.S. I see no such natural law of international politics operating, par­ticularly in a world that has so re­cendy witnessed the collapse of so many assumptions upon which so many men have been so willing to base so much. 
I should think that a concern for the political future of West Germany would begin with a close study of the organization of power in the regime of the Federal Republic, how diat power is exercised, who is really exercising it and to what ends. But findings of this sort are all too hard to come by any­where these days. 
— Donaid P. Kommers 
Tackling the Complex 
TAX ASPECTS OF CORPORATE MERGERS, EX­CHANGES, REDEMPTIONS, LIQUIDATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS by James P. Reeves '34, Vontoge Press, NYC, 203 pp., SIO. 
The lengthy tide of Reeves' book may sei-ve as a warning to die un-
HARRY FLANNERY '23 Direction of Germany 
 ND professor of government, is also a hard­

five other books on Catholic education, is the head of the ND deporf-working Republican while his colleague EDWARD CRONIN, ossociate pro­ment of education. BROTHER HEGARTY has 30 years' teaching experience fessor in the general program, is o Democratic precinct committeeman. and is completing his tenth year os province supervisor of instruction in FATHER SIMONS, director of ND's Counseling Center, has a PhD in coun­the Holy Cross Brothers' Midwest schools. NICHOLAS LOBKOWICZ, former seling psychology and has hod wide experience conducting retreats fol­member of the ND department of philosophy, is now holding an endowed lowing the principles of group dynamics. HENRY BALLING, a resident of chair at the U. of Munich; he is working on a sequel to the volume re­Orchord Pork, NY, was recently appointed vice-pres. of the National viewed here by KARL BALLESTREM, on ND assistant professor of philosophy. Catholic Laymen's Retreat Conference. HARRY FLANNERY wos o CBS 
6S ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
initiated reader tliat the subject mat­ter is complex and confusing. Reeves is a tax expert who has striven to explain to non-e.xperts tiie practical application of some of the most dif­ficult provisions of our Internal Rev­enue laws. The provisions in question set forth detailed conditions under which taxpayers, both individuals and corporations, may obtain preferential treatment with respect to the tax con­sequences of a number of different types of transactions. 
The general rule, as even non­experts know, is that income, includ­ing gains on the sale or exchange of property, is taxed at progressive rates so the greater the income the higher the rate of tax. However, certain gains qualify as long-term capital gains and are ta.xablc at lower rates than other types of in'zome.-
Furthennore, certain gains (and losses) are not recognized for federal income ta.x piu'poses. Transactions resulting in such gains arc referred to as tax-free exchanges. Reeves ex­plains a number of these tax-free ex­changes, such as exchanges by busi­ness enterprises of business property iield for business use or investments, before he discusses reorganization ex­changes. 
He explains the tax effects of dif­ferent kinds of corporate distributions, ordinary dividends, stock dividends, distributions in redemption of stock, distributions in complete or partial liquidation of corporations. His ex-
JAMES REEVES '34 Taxes: Where they come from . . . 
planations consist of more dian mere paraphrases of the statutory language. He does not hesitate to quote exten­sively from the Treasury regulations with their numerous examples and he also cites and explains numerous key decisions which warn the reader of pitfalls to be avoided. 
Businessmen and investors should 
find the book helpful in casting light 
on some veiy murky areas of tlie law 
which may be of great personal con­
cern to them. Having such enlight­
ment they will know better when to 
consult their tax counsel. Such a 
result, I take it, was the author's chief 
aim in writing this book. 
—Roger Paul Pelers 

Challenging Catholics 
THE HOtY EUCHARIST by Cornelius Hogerty CSC '06, McCIove Prinling Co., South Bend, 77 pp., $1. 
"Here was a man who would never wear a false face," wrote the founder of the world-wide Family Rosary Crusade, Rev. Patrick Peyton CSC, in his ante biography. He was describ­ing Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, who "would say what he believes regard­less of the consequences." 
Fadier Hagerty actively served the Congi-egadon of Holy Cross as phil­osophy and religion teacher and as a chaplain and prefect of religion for more than half a century. This booklet would be a full-length book had tlie author not been more concerned with the precision of his thoughts and terms than with rhetorical devices for engaging reader-interest. It bluntly challenges Catholics to decide whedier dieir faith is "sham or reality." 
"The wonderful opportunity we had to teach Catholic faith and philosophy in the United States has been lost," Father Hagerty writes. "VVc have allowed a soft, sentimental sociology to replace Catholic dogma, morals and Holy Scripture." He charges some Catholic intellectual leaders with "giving up the philos­ophy of common sense and substitut­ing for it the obscure mystique of Kierkegaard, Heidegger and Sartre, derived from Kant and Hegel." 
In short, we have here a Holy Cross philosopher's capsule reply to "at­tempts ... . now being made, even by Catholic scholars, to dchellenize our dogmas." 
—0 . Chel Grant '22 

correspondent rn Berlin just before WWII ; he is now retired but teaches Texas and NYU. FATHER 
Facing the Crisis 
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVEtOPMENT by John B. Willmonn "40, Frederick 
A. Praeger Inc., NYC, 207 pp., S5.95. 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development is a very neces­sary publication at this time. The housing crisis has been with us for a long time and will continue to grow unless government and industry work together to produce houses of much higher quality than the shabby ones of the past. 
Unfortunately, many may never read this publication because it is not the type of literature that one can pick up and enjoy. But it is a must for all who are actively concerned with housing, transportation and related fields. It will give the professional and amateur alike a better compre­hension of this area of concern. 
Willmann gives us a historical analysis of the government's involve­ment with housing and clearly pre­sents the difficulties and inherent de­lays in our government's recognition of this most important area of our environment. He explains in detail the new uses of mortgage insurance by FHA, the present situation and status of public housing and the rent supplement program and discusses the experiments connected with "model cities" as well as the importance of transportation connected with plan­ning, rehabilitation and new construc­tion. 
—Fronfe Montana 
JOHN WILLMANN MO . . . and where they go. 

 HAGERTY, a former ND faculty member, is a 
two courses at the Center for Research and Labor Education at the Institute Thomislic philosophy specialist; he was the chaplain of the Brothers of of Industrial Relations at UCLA. DONALD KOMMERS, assistant professor Holy Cross at ND many years. CHET GRANT is best known as the author­of government and international studies at ND, is on a year's leave in ity on ND sports and is organizer of the ND Sports and Games Library. Germany researching West Germany's Federal Constitutional Court. JAMES JOHN WILLMANN is the prize-winning real estate editor of the Wash­REEVES, a partner in the low firm of Boyle, Feller and Reeves in NYC, ington Post and recently served as president of the Notional Assoc, of writes about corporation taxes frequently For periodicals. ROGER PAUL RE Editors. FRANK MONTANA is chairman of the ND department of archi­PETERS is on ND professor of lav/ who was graduated from the U. of tecture. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1968 JUNE 
X-

Mr. Franeis P. Clark cycling and productivity of 
Head, MicrofilmingMemorial Library Notre Dame, Ind.  & Photo.  46556  Lab.  
C  A  L  t  IN  U  /­v  •<  

• June lG-20, Faith and Order Colloquium. • June 16-Au2:. 1, American art from the permanent collec­tion, East Gallery-, O'Shaugh­ncssy. • June 17-June 21, June 27-28, Workshop in humanities. • June 18-Au­gust 3, Summer school. • June 19-June 24, Workshop in liturgical music. • July 8-12, Bishops' Theological Institute. • July 8-29, Mead Corporation Collects: Con­tcmporarj- American Artists, AVest Gallerj-, O'Shaugh­nessy. • July 12-July 14, Ecumenical prayer confer­ence, SMC. • July 18, ND English Assoc, summer con­ference, o July 28-Aug. 3, American College Public Relations Assoc, summer academy. • Aug. 4-Aug. 9, Workshop in parish music. 
• Aug. 8-.\ug. 10, Second Institute on Stewardship and Church Support. • Aug. 15, Feast of tlie .Assumption. • 
BOOKS Philip Glcason, assoc. prof, of historj'. I^he Conservative Reformers: German-Ameri­can Catholics and the Social Order, a case study of the assimilation of a Catholic inmiigrant group. §8.95. 
• The late Dr. Aaron I. Abcll, prof, of history, edited 
American Catholic Thought on Social Questions, and had substantially completed the work when he died suddenly in October, 1965. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy CSC completed the manuscript which has now been pub­lished by the Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc. • Henry Hare Carter, prof, of modern languages, has edited a manuscript titled "Book of Joseph of .Arimathea. . . . The First Part of the Quest of the Holy Grail." It is a 16th century copy of a manuscript dated 1314. It has been printed by the U. of North Carolina as part of its studies of romance lan­guages and literature. • x\s­trik L. Gabriel, director of the Mediac\'al Institute, has published an illustrated German text on the French Dominican, "Vinzenz Von Beauvais." • ^Villiam A. Madden '47, cd.. The Art of 
Victorian Prose. 

• William V. D'Antonio, prof, of sociology and an­thropology, is the new pres­ident of the Ohio Valley Sociological Society. • Col. John J. Lavin, former dep­uty chief of the logistics div. of the N.\TO .-Vnny group headquarters in Izmir, Turkey, has assumed com­mand of tlic .Army ROTC program. • Paul Barthol­omew, prof, of government, is the author of three articles in the 1968 edition of En­cyclopedia -Americana deal­
ing with the Constitution and constitutional law. • Ted Haracz has been appointed asst. sports information di­rector. • Rev. Leo R. Ward CSC, prof, emeritus of phi­losophy, has been named to receive the 1969 .Aquinas Medal of the American Catholic Philosophical -Assoc. • Rev. Leon Mcrtensotto CSC, assoc. prof, of the­ology, has been named one of two advisors to a com­mittee of the National Kid­ney Foundation studying the moral and ethical questions of kidney treatment and transplantation. • Joe Sas­sano has been named asst. director of the -Athletic and Convocation Center. • Prof. -A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute, has been elected to the editorial committee of the "Te.xte des mittelalterlichen Geis­teslebens," unpublished textes of mediaeval intellectual life, under the auspices of the Bavarian .Academy of Sci­ence, Munich. • Dr. George -A. Brinkley, assoc. prof, of government and interna­tional studies, has been awarded the international affairs fellowship of the Council on Foreign Rela­tions in NYC. He will study Soviet conduct in the UN. 
•
 Ronald Weber, asst. prof, of communication arts, has received a Fulbright fellow­ship to teach .American liter­ature and civilization as a member of the faculty of letters at the U. of Coimbra, Portugal, for the 1968-69 academic year. • Dr. Robert 

M.
 Slabey, assoc. prof, of English, has received a Fulbright fellowship to teach a seminar in .American liter­ature for graduate students' at the .American Institute of the University of Oslo, Nor\v'ay, during the 1968-69 academic year. 8 James W. Prick, vice-pres. 


!§ndup 

for public relations and de­velopment, was awarded a distinguished scr\-ice medal at the 17th annual Southern Regional Press Institute. • John F. PIouiT, administra­tive asst. to Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, has been named managing director of the new .Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. • Bro. Ramon Purzycki CSC has been sworn in as the ND post­master. • Dr. James F. Rob­inson has been named chair­man of the dcpt. of English. 
•
 Thomas E. Stewart, assoc. vicc-pres. of academic af­fairs, has been named chair­man of the Human Rela­tions Committee of the South Bend-Mishawaka Area Chamber of Com­merce. • Promoted to Emer­itus: Francis E. Moran, Joseph C. Rj-an (English); Joseph O'Meara (law);Ray­mond Plummer; ^S'alter Shilts (civ. engineering); George Rohrbach (mcch. engineering); John H. Shee­han (economics): Rev. Ray­mand Murray CSC (soci­ology). • Promoted to Professor: Charles Allen (met engineering); Joseph Brcnnan, Walter Davis (Eng.); Rev. Francis De-Graeve SJ (theology); Jere­miah Freeman, Emil Hof­man (chem.); Eugene Henry (electrical engineering); Robert Leader (art); James 

M.
 Lee (education); Richard Lynch (accountancy); William McGlinn (physics); Carl Riehm, James Stasheff, Warren Wong (math); Kenyon Tweedell (biology). 


CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
• June 24-Aug. 2, Summer institute for philosophy teachers. • July 13, ND Law Assoc, executive board meeting. 
GRANTS 

• Acro-Spacc, Prof. John D. Nicolaides, $49,884 from the Na\'y for research in high fineness ratio bodies, and §19,980 for design, testing and training in the Para-Foil from Na\'al -Aerospace Re­covery Facility, also §10,000 from the -Army-White Sands Missile Range for study of the aerodynamics of wind vanes and d>'namic wind tunnel testing. • Biology, Dr. Thomas Griffing, §28,­812, -AEC, for nutrient Goodfellow, §1,000, G. D. 
lake bog systems. Dr. Robert Searle Co. for a seminar program. Prof. George Craig, §5,000 from ^Vorid Health Organization for a seminar on vector genetics. 
•
 Center for the Study of Man, §95,447, Agency for International Development for study of family and fertility changes in Latin .America by Dr. Donald Barrett. • Chemistry, §4,­555, Texaco, Inc. for a chemistrj' fellowship. Prof. James Danchy, $750 from the Toni Co. for a summer stipend. • Geology, Prof. Michael Murphy CSC §12,680 from NSF for in-ser\-ice institute in eartli science. • Civil Engineering. $91,112, Dr. Mark Tenney and Dr. AVaync F. Echcl­berger, from Federal Water Pollution Control Adminis­tration for remo\-al of pol­lutants by combined chem­ical and biological treat­ment. • Law, Prof. Thomas 

L.
 Shaffer, a grant to attend the 1968 Social Science Methods in Legal Education Institute at U. of Denver Col. of Law July 7-.Aug. 2. 

•
 Mathematics, Prof. 6 . T. O'Meara, $6,100 from NSF for arithmetic theory of classical groups. Prof. Wil­helm StoU, $20,700 from NSF for theory of several complex variables. • Micro­biology, Dr. Bernard Wost­mann, $15,960, National Institutes of Health, for study of mineral-free metab­olism in gennfrec rats, and $27,085 from NIH for re­search in factors affecting gcrmfrec cholcsteral metab­olism. Prof. Morris Pollard, $79,924 from NIH for re­search of gcrmfrec animal colonies. • Physics, $192,­000, Dr. Cornelius Browne, National Science Founda­tion, for nuclear structure research. • University, §214,000 from the National Science Foundation for graduate traineeships. $25,­000 from Rockefeller Foun­dation for Neighborhood Study Help Program. $7,325 from NSF for a senior for­eign scientist fellowship. $11,274 from the Office of Education for a work-study program for needy students. $492,300 from the Office of Education for the NDE.A, Title IV graduate fellow­ship program. Renewal of a $150,000 federal grant for a graduate program in world history for experienced sec­ondary school teachers. $250,000 from American .Airlines, Inc. for an en­dowed professorship in honor of its former board chairman. Secretary of Com­merce C. R. Smith. 









