The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

}n-i> 
inis book is not to Ot 
'akpn from the Library 



S>6c 

Notre Dame ALUMNUS 
'J^Ev. HUGH O'DONNELL, CS.C, LITT.B., '16 Rector and Prefect President, St. Edward's Vice-President, Notre Dame Always a Friend 
"-''%. 

\
•-5 
A. 

t3 ^^^ 

;^7 

Vz-'orfiE ov^^ 

March, 1935 
COMMENT 
Living Endowment has become, be­cause of the Association's apprecia­tion of your financial problems, a dormant issue. A few contributions bear eloquent testimony of the con­tinuing interest and loyalty of those who either have been a bit more fortunate, or as the Editor suspects a bit more willing to sacrifice. 
Let's review the Living Endow­ment idea. 
It was planned in the "seven fat years" of the Association—but it was planned even then with the limited financial resources of our young alumni group in mind. 
The plan eliminates, for the indi­vidual, large capital demands for the support of his alma mater. At the same time it enables him actually to bestow upon the University the same practical results as substantial gifts. 
Viz: You are out of school five years. You are making $2,400 a year. (This is very hypothetical, yes.) But you have married the girl from St. Mary's, and one or two new prospects for your respective alma maters add ballast to a fortune that shows no 
inclination to rise, even without it. 
Comes a representative from Notre Dame who says, "Notre Dame needs a larger annual income for the many fine purposes which you appreciate. We want $500 from you, old pal, old pal." 
The first guess has it. You couldn't no matter where your mental attitude graphed. 
But—all the school could do with that $500 in permanent endowment would be to invest it at a hoped-for 5%, bringing in as annual income some $25 for actual use. 
Now—with your $200 a month in­come, it is much more reasonable and fair to you to suggest that you set aside a couple of dollars for Notre-Dame. You spend more than that for many things of less importance to you. 
Yet—at the end of the year, with this modest cooperation you have given, YO U HAVE DONE AS MUCH FOR NOTEE DAME AS THOUGH YOU HAD GIVEN S500 OUTRIGHT. 
So—while we don't want to ride you to death on this topic of strain­ing finances, there are a few remarks we feel are dictated by circumstances. 
The principle of Living Endow­ment offers Notre Dame alumni the easiest, most effective method of co­operating with the University in a financial way. 
Ordinarily the funds so given should be unrestricted. But this year we have a specific appeal. 
The University has advanced some $12,000 over a period of the past two years to cover deficits which have been accumulating and acquired dur­ing these years of depression. The University did this so that the mutual benefits of the Association, to you as well as to Notre Dame, might not be lost. 
As a result, contrasted to most of the other alumni groups of the coun­try, we show an increase in size and an increase in service which have resulted in a tremendous increase in prestige, a prestige that you share. 
Wouldn't it be a splendid gesture, if, out of the economic upturn, the alumni could contribute as this year's Living Endowment a sum that would substantially reduce the deficit the University has assumed for us? Just a few dollars from a large number of us would fill the bill, in fact pay it. 
The Office is open for your con­tribution. 


SYNTHETIC RUBBER 
(An Editorial from the New York Tivies of February 24, 1935) 
In testifying before the Reciprocal Trade -Agreement Committee last De­cember that champion of -American chemistry, Mr. CHARLES P. GARVIN, former .A.lien Property Custodian, made the point that we consume 65% of the world's rubber. More than any country in the world we suffered from the machinations of the English-Dutch cartel, which in 1926 drove the price up to $L25 a pound. The Stev­enson plan, in which the cartel gave form to its dream of world control, was revived in 1934 in a modified form; yet the price of rubber aver­aged no more than 14 cents a pound. 
It was not consideration for Amer­ica that made it possible for us to satisfy our needs at so agreeable a figure. No doubt an overproduction of rubber was in our favor. More potent was the fact that synthetic rubber of a wholly new type is so much of an accomplished fact that it can now be held as a club over the heads of those who seek to cover the market. Hence the satisfaction with which the Amer­ican chemical industry greeted the award of the American Institute's med­
al to Father JULIUS ARTHUR NIEUW­
LAND. Although synthetic rubber is the 
practcial result of research conducted 
by a group of du Pont chemists under 
the direction of Dr. WALLACE H. CAR-
OTiiEass, it is to this self-effacing 
priest that we owe our freedom from 
domination by foreign planters. 
For 70 years chemists were ham­pered both by a wrong definition of rubber and by what is demanded of rubber. They had picked latex apart, chemically speaking, and decided that it was an intricate compound of hy­drogen and carbon. Hence any sub­stitute for rubber must be similarly composed, they reasoned. Clinging tenaciously to this traditional concep­tion, the Germans succeeded in pro­ducing rubber of a kind — rubber which enabled them to meet the exi­gencies of war for a time, but which was utterly unable to satisfy the in­dustrial demands of peace. With the boldness that has always character­ized exceptional innovators. Father NIEUWLAXD abandoned precept s doomed to fail in practice. He asked himself questions. What is demanded of a rubber in daily life? If the defi­nition is changed, may not something better than natural rubber result? The answers came in the form of a new basic materia], chloroprene. As its name indicates, it consists of 40 percent chlorine, not found in latex at all. Out of this compound, without a counterpart in nature, came some­thing better than rubber, for the sim­ple reason that it can resist kerosene gasoline, oil, air, ozone, acids and alkalis. And the raw material? Noth­ing but coke and lime out of which calcium carbide is made, then acety­lene and finally chloroprene. By throwing overboard a hampering defi­nition, by demanding something bet­ter than nature's rubber, a priest with imagination saves us $375,000,­000 a year and liberates us from for­eign domination. More than that, he opens up vistas of new insulators, tires, overshoes, fabrics, floor cover­ings, and even noiseless streets paved with some chloroprene derivatives. One almost longs for a rise in the price of natural rubber. It might mean the creation of new industries— more work for the unemployed. 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAUBS E . ASMSntONG, *23. The ma^zine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of the Ameriam Editor Alumni Cooncil. 
of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price oC single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include 
WILUAM R, DOOLEY, '26. Member of Nat'I. Catholic 
a year's subscription to THE ALUSINUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post ofTice at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All AtMoeiate EditoT correspcndence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni Federation 
VOL. XIII MARCH, 1935 No. 6 
WILL ROGERS CAPTIVATES CROWD AT BANQUET 
Father Mike Moriarty Runs the Famous Humorist a Close Second; John T. McGovem is Toast­
master; Program Is, as Usual, Brilliant and Draws Huge Attendance. 
"When Notre Dame plays, there's a lot that are with you. I don't know-why, but there's something about you. First of all Rockne built it, no one else could have, for there is a certain shrewdness expected of Notre Dame teams. You don't just run and butt your heads into a line." 
This was Will Rogers' tribute to Notre Dame football teams at the 15th annual civic testimonial ban­quet Tuesday night in the Univer­sity dining hall, conducted by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Alumni club. 
Introduced by John T. McGov­ern, toastmaster, as the man who wrote such clean jokes that when they put a recent remark of his next to a soap ad, they couldn't tell which was the cleanest. Will stood with his head lolled to one side as the crowd rose in a great ovation. 
Scratching his head thoughtfully he began his talk solemnly, recalling the darkened hall and slowly tempoed playing of the "Victory March" in memory of Knute K. Rockne, the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, former president of the University, and Johnny "Tex" Young, football star who died last summer, whose portraits were illumined at the end of the great hall during the cere­mony. 
Then a broad smile illumined the wily Oklahoman's face and he de­clared he was glad to come do^vn to earth at Notre Dame where no one wore a "monkey suit" except the toastmaster and turning to Mayor George W. Freyermuth he declared: 
"He must have got the last tuxedo left by the Republican party." 
But landing with a broad grin on football and the presentation of a knife with an N. D. monogram on it, to make him a full-fledged Notre Dame man. Will decided he should prove his gratefulness: 
"I'll get you two ends and a tackle. I'll just get 'em; but you'll have to 
By GERALD HOLLAND, '25 

(Reprinted from the South Bend Xeirit-Tin for .January IB. 193.-.) 
settle the terms. 1 don't want you to ruin these boys, though, so don't give 'em a book." 
Then he turned to the Southern California game, where he showed his impartiality in those times be­tween scenes when they could listen to the game by singing "Melinkovich" in rhythm with the Trojan battle song. He added that U.S.C. always played Beverly Hills High school the week before the Notre Dame game. -A. few of his other titillating tid-bits were: 
"These coaches may not agi-ee with me, but they should pass the ball around more and not mess about. Get a boy behind the line and throw it to someone. Throw it to Father O'Hara, if necessary. 
"When you get outside the cam­pus, the only Notre Dame men you meet are Irish. When these others leave here they must have to go to work, for they're so busy they haven't time to go back to Notre Dame for the banquets. 
"The coaches cuss the boys out in the fall, speak to the Exchange clubs. Lions, "Tigers and Coyotes in the win­ter and spend the rest of the year resting up in a sanitarium." 
Rogers declared that he had stopped off at the Notre Dame ban­quet on his way to Vice President Gamer's dinner for President Roose­velt Wednesday night, and was hop­ing that he could pick up lunch at some other affair on the way to Washington. He left at 10 p.m. Tuesday on a United Airline ship for Cleveland, where he transferred to a plane for the capital. Through Rog­ers' intervention an American Air­line plane made a special stop at the local airport to take Mr. McGovern east. 
Contributing a major share to one of the most successful testimonial football banquets in years was Mr. McGovem,- counselor for the Car­negie Foundation and -whom every­one knew, before all the coaches and sports editors had sat down again, was the co-author of the famous Bulletin 23, discussing the purity of amateur standings in universities and colleges. 
.Adroitly catching up the remarks of each speaker on the rebound and lauded by Rogers as an innovation in toastmasters, because he knew the names of the men he introduced, Mr. McGovem moved the meeting smooth­ly and brightly. Catching up Will on his dress suit remarks he said: 
"The mayor took the last tuxedo. I got the last dress suit and Rogers said he would pose as a rugged Dem­ocrat and take his |2 back to South­ei-n California -with him." 
Speaking of Father O'Hara, the toastmaster pointed out that he was attracting to the University some of the best students and to the fac­ulty some of the finest scholars that would place Notre Dame in the front ranks of cultural institutions. 
The president of the University de­clared it was a felicitous occasion in thanking the men who had made pos­sible the aeronautics conference in the afternoon. Then he turned to the three portraits on the wall re­marking they represented what Notre Dame strove to create, "first a Chris­tian gentleman, a scholar and then an athlete." 
Rivalling Rogers, in his recollec­tions of an older rugged Notre Dame, was the Rev. M. L. Moriarty, di­rector of Catholic charities in Cleve­land, Ohio, offered by Mr. McGovem as the alumiius who invented the "one-man reunion." 
He set the diners on the edges of their chairs when he said that Father Coughlin and Cardinal O'Connell had decided he was the only living alum­nus of Irish "distraction" who could come back to the campus and mot 
(Continuetl on Paiire 154) 



CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By WILLIAM H. TOUMEY '35 
HANGOVER— 
The depressing interlude following the vacation needs no detailed explan­ation. This pre-exam period was spent in much the same way as in years and years back. Of course there are always a few novel embellish­ments supplied by the individual od­dities each new generation of students possess, but on the whole it was tra­ditional in its progress. 
Professors lectured to vacant seats the first two days and the third saw many desperate inquiries as to the present situation of 'cuts.' Then eyes began to slowly open and faces re­gained a healthy glow as the campus raconteurs regaled select and bored audiences with wild tales of night life in the local towns and miraculous escapes from overturned and fast moving family cars. New romances were recorded and old ones were more firmly enlarged upon. To attempt a sketchy summary, it appears that the present day Notre Dame man has a definite and secure comer on the na­tional feminine beauty market. But then, then, the alumni will complain, hasn't it been always so? 
Freshmen dusted oif new wall space for vacational trophies; sophomores tacked up new poses of the same sub­ject; the juniors began a process of elimination towards the selection of a prom date; and the seniors decided that it was time to seek post gradu­ation emplojtnent. 
The Metropolitan club wept over the financial returns of its Christmas dance, and was promptly hailed be­fore the S. A. C. to tell why. The local weather condition suffered the same description accorded annually and then the topic of conversation veered to the approaching exams. Time marches on. 


SALUTE— 

Left tackle Joe Sullivan, of Belle Harbor, Long Island, becamo the 1936 football captain when the mono­gram men of the current season con­vened shortly after the vacation to vote a successor to Nick Vairo. But the celebration was short lived, for the next week Joe was taken to St. Joseph's hospital in a critical condi­tion that was diagnosed as pneu­monia. The hall chapels were crowded for the next few weeks as the student body prayed fervently for his recov­ery. Then, when a change for the better was reported, it was found nec­essary to operate on a mastoid con­dition that had developed from the original ailment. 
-At the date of writing, however, the captain-elect is resting comfort­ably and seems well on the way to recovery. The team will badly need Joe's services next Fall and the Long Island alumni will point with pride to their local boy as he patrols his life guard beat at Rockaway Beach next summer. 
WiLLWM C. POTTER 
New Trustee—New York. 
"Five Nuts In Two Acts" is the best description we can offer of the play of that name as successfully en­acted by the local anti-Shakespear­ians in Washington Hall, with the cooperation of a Phy Ed tumbling team and the University band . Whether this was an attempted imi­tation or burlesque of Gertrude Stein is yet unanswered, but it matters not; the original five had been increased to ten by curtain time and if we knew the superlative of "nuts" we'd carry on with a review. But being unable to locate that part of speech in any book, it appears expedient to let the whole thing remain status quo. 



BUT DAD! 
We mentioned exams a paragraph or two back, and while this subject certainly deser\-es more than a casual reference in any review of campus activities, further elongation would necessitate the penning of an obitu­ary for some and a swelling accolade for the more fortunate. So in defer­ence to the former and in sympathy with some of the alumni who still ex­perience an unpleasant taste when this subject is mentioned, we will for­mally state that the examinations were seen, were met, and not quite conquered. That is all we'll say, gentlemen. 
Following the announcement that the government was to establish a three months internship for the study of federal affairs in Washington in view of future employment of out­standing college students in a nation­al competition, came a typical Notre Dame reaction when the local board of examiners announced that three seniors of this University were selected to begin their internship im­mediately. 
The three undergraduates will be afforded a chance to meet the most prominent administration officers from the president down. They will sit in on federal board meetings and will serve as clerks at important confer­ences. University officials have ar­ranged for them to return to summer school for the completion of their stu­dies, and they will be awarded their degrees in .A.ugust. 
The new semester began without the services of one of the most fa­miliar of faculty members when Rev. "Pete" Hebert, C.S.C, was transferred to Columbia University at Portland, Oregon. 
Since his ordination in 1914, Father Hebert has taught here with the ex­ception of two years, 1917-19, which he spent in Oregon. He will be re­membered by graduates of the pres­ent decade for his avid interest in affairs botanical and as "the priest chasing around the campus with the butterfly net." 


FROM OXFORD— 
Some time last fall the University announced that Shane Leslie, prom­inent Irish playwright and novelist, would come to Notre Dame as a pro­fessor of Swift and Shakespeare for the Spring semester. But the names of Hanley and Bill Shakespeare were more familiar to the undergrad-iate tongue at the time, and the visiting savant was regulated to ths distant future. 
Then, on the opening day of the new term, an unfamiliar figure with long sideburns and wide shoulders was noticed strolling about the cam­pus, hatless, and topped with a white silk muffler that floated majestically in his wake. Immediately he beeame March, 1935 

the object of undergraduate attention. Into the Caf he wandered and half the student body wandered in behind him. But he still remained unknown. 
Then he walked over to where Father O'Hara was waiting and was introduced to the head of the English department. A student at a nearby table caught the name. Shane Leslie. 
PETER C. REILLY New Trustee—Indianapolis. 

Instantly it was repeated and fled by word of mouth to the outside and from there to the most distant cor­ners of the campus. So this was Shane Leslie, at last. 
The wide shoulders and flowing scarf intrigued the blase seniors and quickened the imagination of roman­tic freshmen. Here was something new. What would be he like in class? Would he say either for either and tay for tea? Would he conduct his classes on the O.\ford system (no at­tendance figures taken)? 
At his first class the next after­noon, the seats were sold out a period ahead of time; the doors were crowded in a manner that would vex the most lax of fire prevention offi­cials, and even a group of engineers ventured over to see what the Irish­man would be like. 
But when Mr. Leslie began his lec­ture with a remark about an Army-Navy game a few years back, the illusion was shattered and, as the professor proceeded, his class soon realized that here was a man "who knew his stuff" and could put it across. 
Mr. Leslie is now teaching his classes with capacity attendance and is lecturing on Tuesday evenings to a crowded and interested combination of students and town people in Wash­ington Hall. 
The l^otre 'Dame cAl utnnus 
To prove that marks were a thing of the past until next June, the Uni­versity officials whisked Eddie Pea­body, banjoist par excellence, from a successful engagement at Sout h Bend's Palace theater and had him strum "Blue Moon" and "Stay as Sweet as You Are" to a noonday as­sembly of students in Washington Hall. 
Once more the campus, at present writing, is being presented with the rare rteat of seeing huge linemen and fleet backfield men jumping over im­aginary barriers and parading to and from classes in black derbies and white sport shoes. 
The semi-annual monogram club initiation is in progress and sights become rarer as the week goes on. Members in good standing will be only too glad to have one of their pledges entertain the most timid of freshman by pushing a flattened pen­ny across the wide walk in front of the Dining hall during the dinner rush. 
But it is all in fun, all in the right spirit, and, boys will be boys. 

N.D. PROFESSOR WRITES ABOUT WORLD PEACE 
If you are interested in constitu­tional law, national and international problems, philosophy, history or psy­chology, you have hardly escaped tak­ing sides on the issues of nationalism vs. internationalism, pacifism vs. mil­itarism, patriotism vs. the world-state. 
Along comes Dr. Roemer, of the philosophy department at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, \rith Wgorous insistence, cutting a wide pat h squarely between nationalism and in­ternationalism, between pacifism and militarism, calling this via media to the solution of peace problems by an old name. Arbitration, and its pro­ponents by a new name, arbitrists. 
The ALUMNUS cannot find that word, arbitrist in the office diction­ary, but we do think that it ought to be in every dictionary and translated into every language spoken in Europe and Asia, or at least into the German, Italian , Russian, Japanese and French. 
In his booklet. The Catholic Church and World-Peace, published by the Catholic Association for International Peace (1312 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington, D.C.) as the report of the History Committee, Dr. Roemer offers no brief for the League of Na­tions nor even for the World Court as at present constituted. He finds, how­ever, that "Sentiment for ratification by all the sovereign powers of a pro­tocol for the secure establishment of a world court seems to be based on a reasonable demand for an agency of arbitration whos e constitution is founded on moral and legal concep­tions acceptable to the common con­science of civilized mankind." Delving into the records of history, when read in the light of a true Christian phil­osophy of peace, which the doctor proceeds to outline, he discovers that the principle of arbitration has been more successful than the policy of forming leagues bet^veen states for the purpose of maintaining the sem­blance of order and the semblance of authority by the use of force alone and an unchristian balance of power. 
America, a leading Catholic Review of the Week, in its issue of Feb. 2, 1935, commends Dr. Roemer's writing to its readers, saying that "the words of William F. Roemer, Ph.D., of the Universtiy of Notre Dame, are sig­nificant, in 'The Catholic Church and Peace Efforts,'—'Arbitration stands forth as the via media between mil­itarism and pacifism in world politics . . .The Christian philosophy implies a recognition of the necessity for peaceful settlements of disputes be­tween nations. For Christian prin­ciples connote an appeal to justice through reason.' Dr. Roemer, contin­ues America, "is careful to point out that the peaceful settlement of disputes, as practiced by the Church throughout her history, was not a mere expedient to be applied when things became distressing. It was a philosophy which contained within itself th e gradual elimination of war as a means of settling inter­national differences: the goal towards which Christians in our own times are bidden by our present Pontiff to strive. "It is significant/ says Dr. Roemer, 'that always the single ethi­cal standard of Christian doctrine was held before kings and subjects. In this singleness of standard is to be found the seed of peace, within and between nations.' The influence of the Church has been a 'leaven working for peace'." 
The Catholic Association for Inter­national Peace is supplying a press­ing need in presenting to a large number of readers non-partisan in­foi-mation upon the vexing problems of international relations. It is re­called that the Association sponsored 3 highly interesting and informative Peace Day program at the University of Noti-e Dame, last year, under the direction of Miss Elizabeth B. Sween­ey, national secretary of the Associa­tion, and with the guidance of Rev. Charles C. MUtner, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, a Vice-President of the Asso­ciation. 


AERONAUTICAL COURSE ANNOUNCED FOR FALL 
Notable Figures in Aviation World Gather at University to Discuss Notre Dame Aviation Training; Hold Two Conferences; Will Rogers Amuses Overflow Audience 
A Notre Dame course in aeronau­tical engineering was announced fol­lowing an aviation conference held in Washington Hall at the University on Jan. 15 and attended by notable aviation experts from the United States and Canada. 
Among the prominent flying figures who' spoke at the conference were Will Rogers, the movie star and hu­morist, who is an air enthusiast; Pro­fessor H; J. Burden, professor of architecture at Toronto University, Toronto, Canada, who as a member of the Royal -A^ir Force shot down 22 enemy planes in the World War; Colonel William A. Bishop, of Mon­treal, another war flier and author of The Flying Squad; Commander H. 
B. Grow, retired United States navy officer, who has held several high com­missions and founded several air transport lines in South America; Merrill C. Meigs, publisher of the Chicago Evening Americaii, who has done so much to stimulate and popu­larize private flying; 
Herbert Sharlock, president of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce and director of public relations for the Bendix Aviation Corporation, South Bend; John R. Cautley, South Bend, an executive of the Bendix Avi­ation Corporation; Colonel John F. Fishback, Chesterton, Indiana, of the Indiana National Guard, a flying en­thusiast; Karl L. Herrmann, presi­dent of the Bantam Ball Bearing Company, South Bend, and a mem­ber of the South Bend aviation com­mission; Colonel T. R. Sherburne, chief of staff of Indiana Militarj-Area, Indianapolis; Victor Kliesrath, chief engineer of the Bendix Avia­tion Corporation. 
These men and numerous other guests and University administrative ofiicers and faculty members discussed at length the possibilities and the future of aviation in its relation to university instruction. 
During the Washington hall pro­gram the speakers noted the progress made in aviation since the war, re­lated colorful experiences both in war and in explorations arid urged stu­dents who attended the gathering to make the mpst of aeronautical sub­jects. 
Capt. Alford J. Williams, who was supposed to fly from the American air races in Miami, Fla., Tuesday morning was reported to have been held up by adverse flying conditions near Atlanta, Ga., and was unable to participate. He was to have biven a stunting performance in the after­noon. 
Particularly entertaining to the overflow Washington Hall audience 
•were the witticisms of Will Rogers who, arriving late in the afternoon from Chicago, was in his best humor­ous form. He liked the students and there wasn't the slightest doubt that the students also liked him. 
-A^t a later conference in the John 
F. Gushing Hal l of Engineering Father O'Hara met with the follow­ing: 
Rev. Thos. A. Steiner, C.S.C, dean of the college of engineering; Byron 
V. Kanaley, chairman of the board of lay trustees; John T. McGovem of New York City; Com. Grow, Mr. Meigs, James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, who was chairman of the Washington hall symposium; Robert B. Riordan, reg­istrar of the university and profes­sor of economics; Col. Fishback; Walter F. Shilts, associate professor of mathematics at Notre Dame; Mr. Cautley, Mr. Sharlock and Mr. Herr­mann. 
Expressing the attitude of the uni­versity. Father O'Hara said: "We never wanted to enter a field that was overstocked, one that could not pay its own way. We did not care to induce our boys to go into aero­nautical engineering unless we could see an outlet for them. There are, of the 40 universities that have such courses, five which have graduate courses: New York university, Geor­gia Tech, the University of Michigan, Massachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy and California Institute of Tech­nology. They speci~lize in one par­ticular branch. However, at this time we could not consider going into a graduate, but only a fundamental, elementary course. 
"We believe that we could fit such a course into our regular engineering curriculum and enable a man to be­come a mechanical engineer if he finds the aeronautical engineering field overcrowded." 
Mr. Cautley suggested that the study of metallurgy and aerodyna­mics be stressed, but more important than any other phase of the course proposed, should be the structural side, he said. 
Com. Grow said: "The wisest thing to teach students is something they can use when they get out. The field for aeronautical engineers as such is verj' small. Schools are turning out men faster than they can be cared for. Any course offered here should be accompanied by a thorough course in business executive work, including meteorology, airport and trafiic man­agement." 
Father O'Hara said he believed it inadvisable to combine a course in. business with a course in aeronautics, saying that the four-year tenn is inadequate and that he did not favor cramming five years into four. 
"As it is now, we give the boys nothing but the basic fundamentals the principles on which they can 
(Continued on Vauv 151) 

Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., addressing the Washington Hall Audience at the Aviation Conference on Jan. 15. 

MSGR. GUILDAy TO LECTURE AT NOTRE DAME 
News of the elevation of Rev. Dr. Peter Guilday, LL.D. '25, to the rank of Domestic Prelate with the title of Right Reverend Monsignor is a wel­comt part of the news that this dis­tinguished historian of Catholic Uni­versity and honorary alumnus of Notre Dame is to lecture at the Uni­versity on March 15. 
The honor from Pope Pius XI comes in recognition of the work of Monsignor Guilday in the field of Church history. 
-A. broad background of European study has been followed by a bril­liant period of teaching and writing in the Catholic University and the Catholic periodical field of this coun­
trj'. 
During his teaching at C.U. Mon­signor Guilday has had among his pupils many of the priests now prom­inent in the affairs of Notre Dame, including the Reverends John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president; Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-presi­dent ; Rev. William McNamara, C.S.C.,. head of the department of historj-, and Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C, University archi\'ist. 


ARTHUR STAGE NAMED EDITOR IN ANN ARBOR 
-4ji:hur W. Stace, '96, one of Mich­igan's best known writers and for 12 years managing editor of the Grand Rapids Press, became editor of the .\nn Arbor Daily Neivs. Jan. T. 
Mr. Stace is a widely known fig­ure in the state and long has held a high place in newspaper circles. One of his outstanding contribu­tions has been as a student and leader in the reforestation and con­servation movements. He went to Ann Arbor seven years ago as di­rector of the utility information bureau of Michigan, his resigna­tion from which was effective Dec. 
31. He has gained an extensive ac­quaintance there and has shown a keen interest in civic affairs. 
A native of Grand Rapids, Mr. Stace spent a year as instructor in English at Notre Dame after gradu­ation before he returned to Grand Rapids to join the editorial staff of the Press. He subsequently occu­pied various desk positions, including the city editorship and that of edi­torial writer after which he be­came managing editor. He was the first president of the Michigan Asso­ciated Press Editorial association and one of the leaders in the organization of the University Press club of Mich­igan 15 years ago. 
-A. student of public problems, he started early in the field of research. Series of articles he wrote did much to make tuberculosis a subject of lay concern and were effective in the movement that led to the establish-r:ent of the state sanitorium at Howell and one for the city of Grand Rapids which pioneered in this field because of his studies. He was the first secretarj- of the fii-st TB society in Michigan. 
He performed a similar service in reci-eation, going into basic social considerations as well as practical methods and came to be regarded as an expert in this field. Grand Rapids had one of the earliest municipal playground programs and it became established as one of the best in -A-meiica. 
City beautification also received his attention. Instruction for land­scaping was developed for the home owner and such enterprises as lawn and garden contests stimulated in­terest. 
Another impoi-tant service was sev­eral months of study of the state's institutional situation and the public was apprised effectively of the needs. The Michigan Hospital association used his articles to support its efforts for additional facilities and the insti­tutional program launched by Gover­nor Green in 1927 was based sub­stantially on his findings. The new state hospital at Ypsilanti was one of the results. 
Research work took on such an as­pect that 12 years ago he began de­voting his entire attention to it and continued until 1927 when he resign­ed to take the utilities position he has just relinquished. 
Bulletin! Bulletin! 

Hey, Charlie, stop that press! Add births—and how! 
"I'm a bnind new baby jjirl: 
Not much hnir, but it may curl: 
Eyes that shine and (limple<i face-­

-lust arrive*!, but like the place." 
JfARY ANNE 

Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. P. GALVIN, bom Feb. 20. 
The choicest congratulations of the -Alumni Association and the Alumni Office to the President and to his wife, Graziella Chevngny Galvin. 
(Chalk up a victory for Sister El­eanore. The Promotion Department retires in confusion.) 
Pat Manion Is Named To State NEC Position 
Clarence E. (Pat) Manion, '22, pro­
fessor of law and former president 
of the Alumni Association, accepted 
on Feb. 8, the position of Indiana 
director of the National Emergency 
Council. The appointment to succeed 
Fred Hoke of Indianapolis was an­
nounced by Donald R. Richberg. Pat 
took over his new duties on Feb. 16. 
-Although Pat's office in the new post will be in Indianapolis, he vrill remain as a member of the law fac­ulty at Notre Dame. This arrange-men will be made possible by a re­alignment of his class schedules. 
Pat was honored by a hundred of his friends at a banquet on Feb. 23, at the Indianapolis -Athletic Club. Dean James E. McCarthy and George Keogan, whose basketball team won over Butle r that evening, were among those present. Governor Paul McNutt was one of the principal speakers. He said: 
"We are here not to congratulate Mr. Manion upon his ascension to a position of high trust, rather are we here to congratulate him upon his willingness to exert his incomparable talents to the welfare of Indiana. His is a big task, the restoration of the economic equilibrium in Indiana and the nation." 
In a speech of thanks Mr. Manion said: 
"Recovery transcends politics. If the federal agencies in Indiana were political by nature I would not have accepted the job." 

Aeronautical Course 
(Continued from Page 150) 

build; we have time for nothing else in four years," Father Steiner said. 
Perhaps the most optimistic voicing of the outlook for aeronautical train­ing and for the future of the avia­tion industry in general was made by Mr. Herrmann, who said: "The great­est prospects for any engineering course of this kind now present them­selves. I foresee a 30 per cent reduc­tion of weight in planes and an in­crease of 30 per cent in fuel utility. Manufacturing costs are now prohib­itive insofar as the expansion of pri­vate flying is concerned. Many new developments have taken place, among them increased safety. I fully believe that a course of this nature can be made to equip the graduate for any line of engineering." 
The reception committee which was in charge of the affair included Fath­er O'Hara, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Father Steiner, Dean McCar­thy, Prof. William L. Benitz, Prof. -Alden Davis, Prof. Leo T. Flatley and Prof. Pedro deLandero. . . 
152 T he 'Notre 'Dame cAlumnus March, 1935 



BOOSTING UNCLE SAMUEL'S BILLBOARD SERVICE 
Alumnus of 1935 Tells How 285 Advertisers Market a Billion Dollars Worth of Goods Through a Wide Variety of "Boards" in Country, City—and Everywhere 
(Ed's. Note: The ALUMNUS prints this article for two chief reasons— first, because of its intrinsic worth, as an able undergraduate discussion of a live topic; secondly, to indicate to the alumni the caliber of work done in the University English classes—in this case in the class of Professor Norbert Engels, '26. Mr. Hargrove finished at Notre Dame in the first semester of the present year.) 
"THERMAE 
M. CRASH FRUGII 
AQUA. MARINA, ET BALN AQUA. DULCI. JANUARIS. L." 
Which merely states the willingness. of one Marcus Crassius Frugius to have you indulge in one of his sea water, fresh water, or warm water baths. This Pompeian baths prop­rietor, like a modem soap manufac­turer, realized that for an effective aid in getting wares and services be­fore the public, the billboard is a serviceable medium. Today 285 ad­vertisers market a billion dollars worth of goods through this industry. They see, to their advantage, that the purpose of the billboard, as recog­nized in all ages, is to contact, and to contact successfully all of the peo­ple all of the time. The public, at work, at rest, and at play, is their objective. Throughout the day and night, on street comers, on much-traveled roads, in busy cities, in lone­ly country meadows, and in quiet sub­urbs, the billboard stands on constant duty. Particularly is this true of America, a nation of •outdoor people, a nation that travels more than any other in history. We think nothing of daily meeting thousands, or of having our tourists spend four billion dol­lars annually. The outdoor advertis­ing man knows that the average per­son spends four hours a day in travel, thus presenting four hours for bill­board circulation. In the millions of automobiles daily on the road he senses restless eyes and open minds. To these groups he sends the bill­board, to stamp their minds with a sales message. 

A constant bombardment of the senses with a phrase or slogan is bound to slip an idea past the bar­riers of the brain of even the most disinterested person. Unconsciously one's curiosity is piqued and his brain is aroused. It may be the color, the size, the illustration, or the slogan which first attracts attention and im-
BY JORDAN HARGROVE, '35 
prints the advertiser and his product on the mind. 
The capability of the billboard to reach all classes: producer, dealer, and consumer, is one of its outstand­ing assets. Primitive man could not always meet whom he wanted to see. He had to develop some type of com­munication to transmit his ideas to another while absent. Pictures filled this need; today we find the adver­tiser using the same means. In Eng­land, even to day, the inns symbolize their names with a picture, having a miniature pig in armor over the Pig in Armor, and an actual hole in a representative wall hanging over the entrance to the Hole in the Wall. Similarly, v,'e here are all familiar with the bull of Bull Durham, or the little Dutch maid of Dutch Cleanser. .A.long the highway there is no dis­tinction among those who travel and read the signs, the downtrodden hav­ing as much right there as the mighty. The billboard must speak a democratic language to fulfill its func­tion, and it does so impressively with its size, color, and repitition. An ad­vertisement which is only glimpsed will not be remembered, for psychol­ogists tell us we do not learn a thing until it is repeated seven times. Here is where the poster rounds out its power. A single billboard design may be found hundreds of times within a state, or thousands of times through­out the nation. 
But the repetition and forcefulness would be of no avail if the style of the wording did not fit them. If it were a pompous style it would not be interesting, and could not be print­ed large enough to be read at any distance. Ten or twelve words, more than suificient for a good slogan, are all that a person travelling past a billboard can catch and read. Busi­nesses have been built upon pithy slo­gans, and failures have been resusci­tated by them. A\'Tio, upon hearing, "Say it with Flowers," "Keep that Schoolgirl Complexion," or "Not a Cough in a Carload," cannot immed­iately place it and recognize it as a potent factor in building up the sales of its company. Brevity is the soul of wit; it is also the soul of billboard advertising. 
The billboard, like a champion fighter, "lands its punch" at the op­portune moment. It picks the "spots" to deliver its message. What could be more timely than a sign attached to the walls of a grocery store advertis­ing a cereal? The Mutual Milk Stores of California, using this method to effectively increase their milk sales, reported immediate increases as high as 26%. This timeliness of the bill­board is enhanced and strengthened by careful and scientific placement, to take advantage of the full flow of traffic. As a rule, wherever crowds congregate so do the billboards. 
When an advertiser desires to make his sign more striking he can use mechanical or electrical devices to attract additional attention. Th e showmanship that can be added to advertising by utilizing these novel­ties, is almost unlimited. In Cleveland, Vemor's Ginger Ale had one sign de­signed to bring out forcefully their slogan, "Balanced Blend." It consisted of two intriguing little gnomes play­ing see-saw over an oaken barrel of gingerale. In electric displays the actions and figures to be drawn by the twinkling bulbs are almost end­less. The old gentleman of Maxwell House Coffee has drunk that last drop many thousands of times nightly on Times Square. 
Nevertheless the attraction to be achieved through the ordinary bill­board may be just as forceful as the more costly and spectacular signs. Anyone who knowsh children knows that bright colors attract them. They always reach for the most brightly colored candy when a dishful is of­fered to them. To remain attractive, the billboard, which stands through fair days and stormy ones, must use brilliant colors. If this is not done the poster is a failure. To prevent this, capable artists are hired to de­sign the posters, producing a pleas­ant, artistic, as well as an impressive and forceful design; proving more clearly that there can be an attractive blend of commerce and art. The ad­vances made in England along this line have been so good as to elicit praise from the Prince of Wales, who said that the billboards "might now-well be called without exagq:eration the art galleries of the great public." 
Although this statement may be ex­aggerated it is true that the size and the attractive mountings of the bill­board do remind one of a vast art gallery extending the breadth of hte nation. Their size and shape is some­what an enlargement of a picture frame, rectangular, with a green or white moulding ending in supporting March, 1935 

pillars. It encases a sheet metal sur­face, the whole being bounded be­neath by green lattice work. Inside this frame is placed the advertise­ment, either hand-painted or of pasted paper sheets. That it is only powerful and aggressive might be considered sufficient service, but like charity, the billboard's worth can be increased a hundredfold, by creating goodwill. 
It is a known fact that if one free­ly do some good for another, a friend­ly feeling will arise. Anyone who has lived in a small town knows how much friendship means in trading. Through warning motorists of ap­proaching hills or by advising him of the best routes to take the billboard can create goodwill. The State of Pennsylvania places its own bill­boards, containing information of scenic and historic interest, at points of interest. The Red Cross and num­erous patent medicine companies edu­cate the public by warning it of dan­gers to health. .A. humorous billboard lightens people's hearts and makes them feel freer. Posters, fronted by a landscaped lawn and shrubbery, often contribute to civic appearance by hiding an ugly garbage dump or vacant lot filled with straggling weeds and unassorted junk. But do these acts and facts of the billboard out­weigh the objections of its critics? 
Unfortunately, too many critics have condemned without careful con­sideration of the problem. They did not know that over 80% of the signs placed along the highways are not placed by recognized outdoor adver­tising agencies or that the Outdoor Advertising Association has formu­lated a set of rules forbidding traffic hazards, the destruction of natural scenei-y, and residential district ad­vertising. Breaking of these rules pro-rides for loss of membership which means loss of business prestige. The advertising men realize that anything done well and in an artistic manner has more force than the slipshod or the offensive. The modem, standard­ized signs present a pleasing appear­ance and should meet with few ob­jections, even by the most aesthetic. It is an error to blame the destruction of natural scenery upon the billboard. That was partially done by the state in building highways which plowed through hills and wrecked rows of beautiful trees. The billboard merely followed in the wake of destruction. It does not deface any of the lovely scenery to be found along the w^ind­ing side roads. It has a rightful place in the economic order of things. 
\s improvements make the bill­board more acceptable the advantages to be gained by its flexibility increase. Through 37,000 posters spread across the continent the advertiser can select his market, whether it be a town, a state, or the country. He can exclude 
The T^ otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
competitors by leasing advantageous locations. He can forcefully attack a community by taking a full showing of half the billboards there. For a less aggressive offensive he can have a half or quarter showing. This en­ables the advertiser to limit both his attack and his costs. The poster bul­letin, which rents by the month, offers an opportunity for frequent changes of billing, but the advertiser has to take whatever boards are open. In towns ranging from a thousand to two and a half million the average cost of the poster bulletin is $16.50 a month per board. .411 of these signs are of a standard size, 12 feet by 25 feet, and are fitted to the standard 24 sheet poster. With the painted buUe­tin, however, the advertiser can select the location, size and number of boards he desires. They are rented for a longer time, six months to a year. The following table from Kleppner's Advertising Procedure shows the va­riety of sizes, positions and costs that the painted bulletin offers: 
Type of Disphiy. Size in feet. 
Preferred positions l2Vl X 47 City and S.ihurban bulletin 12^x4 7 Railroad Bulletins 18 x 72 Railroad Bulletins ..._ 1255 -x 42 
City painted walls ~ 15 x 20 
Store Bulletins 7 x 13 
HiKhway Bulletins 12'/. x 42 
Painted town walls 15 x 20 
Painted Ifiyhway walls- 15 x20 
Special displays are sold in the samo manner and may run as high as 510,000 a month. The electric displays are individually leased on contract for one to five years, the adveritser pay-

Schwartz at Creighton 
Marchie Schwartz, '33, is the new football coach at Creighton Univer­sity, Omaha. The former Notre Dame .•ill-American was, in 1934, assistant to Clark Shaughnessy at the Univer­sity of Chicago and before that was assistant to Hunk Anderson. His new contract is for two yeai-s. One of Marchie's predecessors at Creigh­ton was Chet WjTine, '22, now head coach at the University of Kentucky. 

Catholic Oratorical Contest 
Jerome J. O'Dowd, of Central Catholic High School, Fort Wayne, was named winner of the Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest held Sun­day afternoon, February 10, at Notre Dame. It was sponsored by the Wranglers, honoraiy forensic organi­zation on the campus. 
O'Dowd spoke on "State Aid for Catholic Schools." He was chosen from six contestants representing Catholic schools throughout the state. Louis Hammerstein, of Reitz Memor­ial High school, Evansrille, was awarded second prize for his oration, "Lest We Forget." 
Other entrants and the subjects of their talks were: Nicholas Barsha, 
 153 

 ing a flat rate for maintenance, and  receiving credit for loss of service. 
 it is to be hoped that these facts vdW give the critics means for a re­ consideration of their present verdict,  and allow them to be more lenient in  the future. The outdoor advertisers  willingly admit they have made er­ rors in the past which deserved criti­ cism, but these men are now trying  to make the signs more agreeable to  the public. Billboards have been used  by the government to develop patri­ otic enthusiasm, why should they not  be used to develop economic enthus­ iasm? If they were used more ex­ tensively the consumer would profit  by lower prices brought about  through lowered advertising costs,  Outdoor advertising is a potent com­ mercial force. If it has lasted this  long surely it cannot be easily  stamped out. There is a place in the  world for business; there is also a  place for the simplicity, the strength,  and the color of the billboard. It is  not obsolete, as the critics say, but 
 Cost per month. Repaintin^r with chanKe of copy­
 SlOO to $3000 Illuminated—every 4 months. 
 100 to 500 Non-iUuminatcd—every 6 months  jiO to 100 Every 6 months.  13 to ' 30 Every 6 months.  15 to 50 Every 6 months. 
 7.30 to 23 Every 6 months. 
 20 to 30 Every B months. G to 23 Every 6 months. 4 to 10 Every year. 
 really an infant industry on the  verge of a greater and more ad­ vanced future. Such an influential  marketing force should not be allowed  to rot in neglect. 
St. Mary's high school, Anderson, "The Mexican Situation"; William Minges, Central Catholic high school. South Bend, "The Ideal Catholic Stu­dent"; Richard Hammond, Catholic Central high school, Hammond, "Safety"; William Brennan, Cathe­dral high school, Indianapolis, "Cath­olic Action." 
The McNamai-a trophy, donated by Joseph P. McNamara, '29, dep­uty attorney-general of Indiana, was accepted by O'Dowd as representa­tive of his school. In addition gold medals were awarded to winners of first and second places. 
As a result of O'Dowd's victory Central Catholic will receive a silver trophy to be kept until next year and retained permanently if three successive contests are won by rep­resentatives of the school. 

Father O'Hara at Purdue 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, pres­ident of Notre Dame, addressed the-monthly worship convocation at Pur­due University on February 17. Be­fore an audience of more than 2,000> Father O'Hara asserted that, ia the-complex life of the present, Ameri­cans had grossly neglected the sim-^ pier things. 

Will Rogers 
(Ccinlinued fi-nni Pjiiie 147 
once mention the "fighting Irish" with the gallant names of Melinko­vich and Vairo. His stories kept them roaring, but he rocked the house when he reminisced: 
"I was at Notre Dame in the days of "Cap" Edwards and "Red" Miller, back when Mae West lived on the ground floor. There was a wire fence around the football field in those days to keep the spectators out, and to keep the officials in." 
But he did not forget the 1934 team before him and -n-ith prayerful dignity he spoke to them and con­cluded : 
"I commend you the kindly benev­olence of Our Lady of the Lake." 
It was Timothy P. Galvin, presi­
dent of the national alumni associa­
tion of the University who caught at 
the solemnity of the testimonial and 
the spirit that is Notre Dame: 
"If you are a prodigal son, you 
would be welcome here. The great 
thing that is Notre Dame is its fam­
ily spirit." 
He carried this tribute to Father O'Hara, whom he called, "the great confessor of Notre Dame who lias come to preside over her destinies." And he ended with the extension of the alumni body's greetings to El­mer Layden and the football team. 
When Coach Elmer Layden came 
foi-ward, he said, simply, before in­
troducing the team, the coaches and 
others responsible for the season of 
1934: 
"I think on the whole our season was successful. We started out to fight to die bravely, but we went in­to the Northwestern game and came out of it with a certain poise, a con­fidence to carry on. So we finished fighting to die bravely." 
Joe Sullivan, captain-elect of the 
1935 team, was absent from the ban­
quet because of a mild attack of 
pneumonia. 
Following Coach Layden's intro­duction, the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., vice president of the Univer­sity and former varsity player, read a poetic tribute, written by the Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, to the two most inveterate fans of the "Fighting Irish," George Hull and Michael Cal-non, beloved to the campus as "Hul-lie and Mike." 
Among the sons of Notre Dame 

•who have made a name in the ath­letic world, attending the banquet, was James Phelan, coach of the Uni­versitj' of Washington, who reminded Rogers that he had one of the junior colleges that played U.S.C. before Notre Dame. He lauded the team 
-for their Trojan game and Layden for his sportsmanlike insistence of 

MOREAU CHOIR WINS APPROVAL OF PURDUE 
The Moreau Seminary choir wliich first won national recognition through the broadcast of the Rockne funeral services, continues to add to its laurels. 
One of the most unusual episodes in the histoiy of the organization was its trip on Feb. 17 to Purdue Uni­versity where it sang on the program of the student convocation which was addressed by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University of Notre Dame. On Feb. 19 the choir won new friends with a broadcast from the campus studio of the South Bend Tribune Station, WSBT, now-
giving other players a chance to play wiien the game had been won, in­stead of seeking to score touchdowns. 
"I think, boys, you have a sincere battler and gentleman that will teach you what has been Notre Dame." 
Noble Kizer, athletic director of Purdue university and teammate of Layden, remarked he had promised last winter to help Layden all he could, and believed he had last Octo­ber. Because Charles Bachman had been unable to attend, Ralph Young extended the wishes of Michigan State college. 
Replying to Glenn S. Warner's early season charge that the Notre Dame system was slipping. Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune sports editor and Notre Dame alumnus, pointed out that Krause had led all players in popularity for selection on the all-star college team that played the Chicago Bears last summer, Nick Lukats had led all halfbacks, and that finally, a Notre Dame man. Noble Kizer, had been voted a coach. 
Bill Sheehan, president of the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley, who sponsored the occasion that brought 1200 to pay tribute to the 1934 team, opened the speaking. Mayor George W. Freyermuth lauded the University on behalf of the city. The Most Rev. John P. Noll, bishop of the Fort Waj-ne diocese, gave the invocation at the banquet. 
Professor Joseph Casasanta, con­ducted the varsity band in selec­tions and Joseph Ryan sang two vocal numbers. 
Tradition reasserted itself with Warren Brown, of the Chicago Her­ald and Examiner, polishing oif the banquet table brilliantly, reminding the audience that he would not at­tempt to break Bill Cunningham's record of last year of one hour and 37 minutes' speaking. 
"But there was a godlike qualitj' to Cunningham, for he had neither beginning or ending." 
broadcasting a series of musical pro­grams from the Notre Dame campus each Tuesday evening at 8:30. 
Despite the fact that, like the reg­ular University organizations, the choir suffers a complete turnover of personnel everj' four years. Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C, director, has succeeded in year after year pro­ducing one of the outstanding a capella groups in this country. The choir is composed entirely of the young men studying for the priest­hood in the Congregation of Holy Cross who are residents of Moreau Seminai-j' while taking the work for their baccalaureate degrees. 
C. S. C. Leaders Leave For European Journey 
Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, superior general of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, and Rev. John F. O'Hai-a, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, sailed from New York on the S.S. Champlain, on February 23, for a six weeks' European visit. 
They were accompanied by the Rev. Casimir Sztuczko, C.S.C, for­mer pastor of Holy Trinity Parish in Chicago, who will initiate steps for establishing a house of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross in Poland. 
While abroad. Father Donahue will visit the houses of the Congregation, and Father O'Hara will study trends in practical education and research being conducted in mediaeval philoso­phy at the principal universities on the Continent. 
He plans to visit the major seats of learning in England, France, and Ireland and to secure additional an­cient documents for the Institute of Mediaeval Studies which was founded in 1933 at Notre Dame. A perma­nent endowment has been established at the University to finance intensive work on the theological and literary manuscripts of the twelfth and thir­teenth centuries. 
Father O'Hara's interest in present educational trends is aimed in par­ticular at the preparation of under­graduates for work in business, in­dustry, and governmental service. 
Both Fathers Donahue and O'Hara plan to return to this countrj' early in April. 

Whalen Elected 
Joseph E. Whalen, '29, was elected president of the Tri-City Hotel Men's Association at a recent meeting of the organization in the Fort Armstrong hotel. Rock Island, Illinois. Rock Is­lan, with Moline, Illinois and Daven­port, Iowa, comprise the Tri-Cities. Joe is manager of the Fort Arm­strong Hotel. 



Fifteenth 
Le/i: Will Rogers 

Annual 

Football Banquet 
takes a serious look at the Notre Dame Band while Father O'Hara scans the northern hori-
Center, left: Will gets off one of Jiis choic­est cracks to cheer up Elmer for the 1935 sea-

Center, right: Some of the attending notables were, left to right. Toast­master John T. McGov­em. Mayor George W. Freyermuth of South Bend, Will Rogers and Vincent Bendix. Right x These three champs are, left to right, Warren Brown, Father W. L. Moriarity and Tim Gal­
•m^mm^ wmsmm^ 
FR.NIEUWLAND RECEIVES MED AL IN NEW YORK 
(Ed's Note: The following is a verbatim account, from the New-York Herald-Tribune of February 8, of the presentation of the American Institute gold medals to Father Nieuwland and Doctor Anderson. The attention which one of the world's foremost papers gave to the event is some indication of its importance. Other New York papers, including-the Times, featured long stories and pictures.) 
A twenty-nine-year-old scientist and a Roman Catholic priest last night received the two gold medals of the American Institute, scientific organization, for "outstanding ac­complishments" in the field of science at the institute's annual dinner in the Hotel Astor. The medals were awarded to Dr. Carl D. Anderson, discoverer of the positive electron, and to the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, for his findings in synthetic organic chemistry. 
Dr. Anderson, scientist at the Cali­fornia Institute of Technology, re­ceived the following citation: "For . . . contributions to the field of nuclear physics and particularly for the discovery of the positive elec­tron. 
It was Father Nieuwland whose research at the Universitj- of Notre Dame led to the discovery of synthet­ic rubber. His citation read: "For a lifetime of patient research devoted to the creation of new fields of or­ganic synthesis based on acetylene to which he has made notable contribu­tions. 
Both Dr. Anderson and Father Nieuwland told of their discoveries. Dr. Anderson described how an Eng­lish scientist had predicted the exist­ence of an entity that might be de­scribed as a whole in space because of the negative character of its prop­erties as compared with the known units of matter. Scientists, he said, felt that this feature greatly weak­ened an othenvise useful mathemati­cal approach to the problems of the nature of matter and the atom. 
The positron fitted perfectly into the seemingly Improbable prediction. Dr. Anderson held. One of the chief properties of the positron is its char­acteristic manner of uniting with a negative electron with the resulting annihilation of both, he explained. As a result, positrons have but a short life period in the presence of matter, or of negative electrons. But there is on reason. Dr. Anderson said, why positrons should not have an ex­istence of millions of years in the region of space where negative elec­trons would not interfere. 
In presenting Father Nieuwland, Colonel Marston T. Bogert, professor of chemistry at Columbia University, described the priest's contributions to the chemistrj- of acetylene. 
"It was Father Nieuwland's pio­neer work which opened the road to Duprene (synthetic rubber)," said Colonel Bogert. 
Important economic benefits have already resulted from the discovery 
FATHER J. A. NIEUIVLAND Patient research—noted contributions. 
of Duprene, Father Nieuwland re­ported. 
"The Duprene rubber is pai-ticular­ly interesting because of its many %'irtues over natural rabber: its re­sistance to gasoline, kerosene, oils, air, ozone, acids and alkalis opens up many entirely new fields of rubber technolog}'," he said. "It can be used to better advantages for nearly all the purposes that natural rubber serves, as also for hundreds of uses to which natural rubber cannot adapt itself. In general, one may say that it is a better product than natural rubber. Although somewhat more expensive, thousands of pounds are being amde in the du Pont Du­prene plants. 
"This discoverj- is even now pos­sibly saving us money at the i-ate of $375,000,000 a year." 
The presentation of medals was made by Alfred Knight, president of the American Institute. 
Glee Club to Open Season 
On the evening of March 17 the Notre Dame Glee Club will give its first formal appearance of the year in South Bend. The concert, accord­ing to Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, di­rector of the group, will be held in St. Joseph's Parish hall under the auspices of the Holy Name Society of that parish. 
The club has been practicing daily since September to attain the singing perfection demanded by its conductor. The repertoire will consist, for the most part, of new numbers, although several of the more popular selections from previous concerts have been in­cluded in this year's program by pub­lic demand. 

Chicago Host to N.CA.F. 
The Decennial Convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation will be held in Chicago April 25, 26 and 27. The Middle West region of the federation is host. James E. Arm­strong, '25, Notre Dame, former vice-president of the federation and direc­tor of the Region, is program chair­man. 
Many alumni of the Notre Dame club of Chicago are active in the fed­eration. Notre Dame has sponsored several of its monthly forums. The club will cooperate in the convention plans. Several Notre Dame men will appear on committees and on the sev­eral program of the convention. 
But the point the ALUMNUS wishes to emphasize is that the federation, particularly through this convention, is striving to unite the full strength of educated Catholic thought in this country, as represented by the Cath­olic College alunmi. Every Catholic alumnus is invited and strongly urged to participate in the activities of the federation. 
National leaders in Catholic thought and Catholic education will appear before the convention. L. J. A. Mercier of Harvard, Ross Hoffman, Thomas Woodlock, Judge Edward S. Dore, are a few of the lay speakers. Held immediately after the national meeting of the National Catholic Ed­ucational association, the convention has invited and anticipates the par­ticipation of the leaders in the Cath­olic educational world. 
A detailed convention program will appear in the April ALUMNUS. 


New Brownson Manuscript 
An unpublished manuscript written by Orestes Augustus Brownson, fa­ther of Amercian philosophy, has come to light in the archives of the University. The manuscript, dated December 19, 1834, is entitled "Let­ters To An Unbeliever in Answer To Some Objections To Religion" and consists of eight complete and one incomplete letter, the whole work totaling approximately 25,000 words. 
Doctor Brownson often expressed his desire to end his days at Notre Dame and in 1875, when he was of­fered a professorship at the Univer­sity, he •willingly accepted. While on his way to Notre Dame he stopped at Detroit to visit his son and there died April 17, 1876. Buried in the Cath­olic cemetery of Detroit, his body was transferred to Notre Dame in 1886 and was buried in a crypt be­neath the church. Thereafter the basement chapel was known as the Brownson Memorial chapel which was named after him as was also Brownson Hall. 


Professor R. A . Hoyer Honored for Scout Work 



U.N.D. NIGHT-April 29 
Professor Raymond A. Hoyer, head 

(Ed's Note: Universal Notre Dame Night for 1935 is hereby officially an­nounced. And early plans are better plans! Better get under way—pronto) 
A tiger, stalking a native child in the remote province of Bengal, India, is stopped by a man. The man is in­jured in the struggle before the aroused villagers kill the beast. This man is a graduate of Notre Dame, who has chosen the missionary work of the Holy Cross Order in India as his career.—Rev. C. Brooks, C.S.C. 
Into the inland cities of Brazil, on trails possibly blazed by the late Father John A. Zahm, when he went with Theodore Roosevelt to South America, comes a less picturesque fig­ure, a young man bent on selling sewing machines. This is a young commerce graduate of Notre Dame, invading a market in South America, a continent familiar in the histories of his Dean of the College of Com­merce and his president, Eev. John F. O'Hara, part of whose youth was spent in the consulates in the Argen­tine and Uruguay.—Arthur Denchfield 
A ripple of excitement on a Paris boulevard, followed by interrogations in e-xcellent French but with a pecu­liar inflection, identifies a Notre Dame graduate, native of Kentucky, now editing the Paris edition of a New York daily.—I^oiiis Harl 
The shrill clangor of Shanghai reaches the ear of a young Notre Dame graduate on the Canton Road, where he is contributing to modern China through a Chinese aviation project.—Frank Havelick 
An event in Rome, perhaps such an occasion as that which marked the bestowing of the 1934 Laetare Medal on Mrs. Nicholas Brady at the Amer­ican College, brings a group among whom are a number of Notre Dame graduates, religious, both those of the Holy Cross Order and those who have entered the secular field. 
London's busy world finds in its course the hand of a Notre Dame alumnus who has found success in the real estate business there, Robert Siaceny, while in the contrasting cloisters of old O.xford, a second Notre Dame man, a priest, pursues studies in its inspring silence.—Rev. 
L. R. Ward 
Somewhere between France and her African colonies a tiny humming speck marks the flight of a Notre Dame man who has made history in the aviation annals of France and Morocco.—Col. Charles Sweeny 
Gayly decorated boats, bands play­ing on their decks, put out into the harbor of Manila to meet a boat from -America. It bears home a scion of one of Manila's leading families who has been but recently graduated from Notre Dame. Among those meeting him are many members of the Notre Dame alumni club of Manila.—Ed­nardo Roxaa. 
In a Cuban courtroom a United States claim agains Cuban Sugar in­terests is being pushed by a Cuban attorney. For the planters' defense a prominent ^vitness is an American engineeer, C. C. FitzneraUl, a Notre Dame graduate. In Havana, too, the thousands who admire the magnifi­cent capitol building are admiring the work of a Notre Dame architect, Virgilio Rayneri, resident of the city. 
Trouble in Nicaragua means a quick flight of American fighting planes. Commanding a squadron of these in recent disturbances was a Notre Dame graduate.—Capt. F. P. Mulcahy. 
A young artist sets up his easel in a scenic spot of Czecho-Slovakia. It is a Notre Dame graduate enjoying the fruits of a fellowship in art in the romantic and artistic city of Prague. —Art Becvar 
.\ little agricultural school in Hon­duras brings to the natives new means of wringing a livelihood from their tropical environment. Its head is a Notre Dame graduate.—Pompilio Ortega 
Two young engineers emerge from the field office of a Canadian gold mind. They are classmates just out of the Notre Dame mining engineer­ing school.—-lini Baker and Charlie Cashmayi 
In Krakow, Poland, a priest of the Order of Holy Cross is finishing his course of studies preparatory to in­troducing a study of the Polish lan­guage and culture at Notre Dame.— 
Rev. S. Lisiewxld, C.S.C. 
So it goes throughout the world. Men of Notre Dame, in every profes­sion, in every walk of life, perform the functoins of educated men in the far places. Universal Notre Dame Night, obsen'ed each April, is truly the manifestation of a universal teaching that, through these scattered alumni, enjoys an application equally widespread. 
of the Boy Guidance Department at Notre Dame, was the recipient of the Silver Beaver award of the Boy Scouts of America, at the annual 
PROFESSOR RAY HOYER 
Champion of Youth. 

meeting of the St. Joseph Valley council in South Bend. 
This award is made annually in every Boy Scout council in the United States to the volunteer worker who has performed outstanding service in the course of boyhood. It comes to Professor Hoyer after ten years of work for boys in the South Bend dis­trict, not only in scouting, but in every community movement affecting youth. During this period Mr. Hoyer has been identified closely with the development of scouting for Catholic boys and during the past few months has been active in Catholic Youth Or­ganization work. He has just been named to serve as chairman for the Scouting Committee of the CYO of St. Joseph County. 
In presenting the award Judge W. 

E. Miller cited the following activities in which Mr. Hoyer's influence has been felt: In scouting, a member of the executive board of the council; also a member of the National coun­cil; a member of the troop committee of St. Joseph's Church; Chairman of the conunittee on leadership and training and representative on the board of directors of the South Bend Community Fund. In CYO work, a member of the committee on organ­ization, and a tireless worker always in the interest of Catholic youth. 
The Silver Beaver award was au­thorized by the National council of the Boy Scouts 'of America three years ago. Mr. Hoyer is the first Catholic in the South Bend district to be thus honored. 
The Commencement and Alumni Reunion will be held this year on Saturday and Sunday, Jime 1 and 2. You can start a notable w^eek-end with Memorial Day and go straight through. Get the gang together now! 
BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, "32 ATHLETIC PUBLICny 

ATHLETICS 
• BASKETBALL 
Does a team or an individual in competitive sports lose contests be­cause it doesn't make the breaks, or because it doesn't get the breaks? 
Far be it from this department to attempt to settle so pulsating a ques­tion with a wave of the hand, but it is our duty to oifer to the hot stove league some concrete evidence on this thesis in the form of the 1933-34 Notre Dame basketball team. This aggregation has won ten games and has lost seven games. 
The record is as follows: 
Notre Dame. 35; Kalamazoo, IS. Motrc Dame, 39; Albion, 11. Notre Dame, 25: Northwestern, 26. Notre Dame, 29: Stanford, 19. Notre Dame. 18; New York U., 25. Notre Dame, 45; Holy Cross. 19. Notre Dame, 28; Minnesota. 30. Notre Dame. 23: Marquette, 20. Notre Dame. 30; Butler. 29. Notre Dame, 22: Pittsiurch. 25. Notre Dame, 41; Detroit, 29. Notre Dame, 32: Chicago. 20. Notre Dame, 22; Ohio Slate. 31. Notre Dame, 38: "Washington U., 15. Notre Dame. 26: Illinois, 27. Notre Dame. 28: Northwestern. 26. Notre Dame. 25; Pittsburgh. 27. 

The cold, factual scores mean little. But there is little doubt that, by getting the breaks, just a nod here and there from the goddess of for­tune, Notre Dame could now have 15 victories against two defeats. 
Coach George Keogan opened the current season without the services of Ed (Moose) Krause, Joe Voegele, and Leo Crowe. Krause and Voegele had averaged more than 350 points a season between them. Crowe was one of the coolest and ablest guards in Notre Dame history. 
No one came along who could quite take their places as scorers, as an influence on the morale of the team, or as guards. The main thing was that 350 points a season had been lost to the Irish offense. So Keogan set about building a defen­sive team, obviously his only course of action. His slogan, became, "Hold the opposition down, and then try to get some points yourself." 
As a result, only one team, Ohio State, has scored more than 30 points on Notre Dame. The Buckeyes did it when Keogan was home in bed with a heavy cold. They scored 31 points. 
Northwestern gave Notre Dame its first defeat, 26 to 25, on a free throw in the closing seconds of play, after the score had see-sawed through the evening. A break here could have 
• turned the score the other way. Notre Dame missed 7 out of 12 free throws. 
DON ALLEN 
Typhoid kept him out. 

Northwestern made 10 out of 13. But maybe that should not come under the heading of breaks. 
N.Y.U., defeated only once in two seasons, won a 25 to 18 decision from a travel-weary Notre Dame team be­fore a Madison Square Garden crowd which established an attendance rec­ord, since broken, of 16,138. Notre Dame led at the half, as it did in every other game of the year it lost, except two. The lack of reserve strength is an important factor to be considered in this connection. Keo­gan has had all he could do to keep five men fit and able to start these games, and the reserves are far be­low the varsity standard. 
After defeating Holy Cross at Bos­ton, the Irish lost a 30 to 28 decision to Minnesota at Minneapolis when 
1935 NoTKE DAME BASEBALL SCHEDULE Apr. 12—Ohio State here. Apr. 16—Purdue at Lafayette. Apr. 17—Purdue at Lafayette. Apr. 18—^Western State at Kalamazoo. Apr. 20—Chicago at Chicago. Apr. 24—Iowa here. Apr. 25—Iowa here. Apr. 27—Illinois at Champaign. Apr. 30—Chicago here. May 4—Ohio State at Columbus. May 6—^Indiana here May 8—^Northwestern her«. Mas- 11—^Western State here. May 16—Northwestern at Evanston. May 18—Purdue here. May 14—^Wisconsin at Madison. May 23—Michigan State at Bast Lansing. May 31—Wisconsin here. June 1—Michigan State here. 

the Gophers sank 22 out of 26 free throws. No team had had a chance to toss this many free shots since 1927-28 when Pitt won a 24 to 22 verdict by making 20 free throws and two field goals, 
Marquette fell, 23 to 20 on the local floor. Butler lost a 30 to 29 game which, on the face of it, might be considered a lucky victory for Notre Dame. The Irish, however, had a 21 to 12 lead at the half and increased it during the second half before wilting and allowing the Bull­dogs to catch up and pass them. Johnny Ford's last-minute work and Joe O'Kane's 14-point scoring spree won this game. 
Then Pitt won a 26 to 22 decision at Pittsburgh, leading by three points at the half, being tied shortly after the second half opened, and then go­ing ahead to win. 
Notre Dame dropped Detroit and Chicago by comfortable scores, hold­ing Dick Haarlow, Big Ten scoring leader, to a mere seven points for 40 minutes in the latter game. 
Came the Ohio State game which Keogan was unable to attend, and the Buckeyes rang up a 31 to 21 victory over Notre Dame, meanwhile becom­ing the first — and, we predict, the last — team to score 31 points on Notre Dame this season. 
Washington U. fell before the Irish by a lop-sided margin of 38 to 15. 
Then Illinois duplicated the early season Northwestern victory, by get­ting a last minute free throw and winning a 27 to 26 victory. Another one of many cases where a break would have turned the score the other way. 
After winning a 28 to 26 victory over Northwestern, at Evanston, and preserving a tradition for this series which has seen 13 of the last 16 games settled by four points or less 
— each team winning eight with Notre Dame scoring 408 points to 406 — the all-time bad break of the season allowed Pitt to vrin the return game on the Notre Dame floor, 27 to 25. 
Holding the Panthers to two field goals in the first half, Notre Dame took a 12 to 7 lead. This advantage they maintained with variations for a _ considerable period. The game, with the players becoming "time-con­scious" got rougher and faster. Ex­perienced Hoosier fans, feeling that the game should be over any minute, buttoned their coats, shifted in their seats, and prepared to make a sprint­er's bolt for the exits. Dr. H. C. Carlson, Pitt's coach, chatted with his players on the bench, saying "this 
JOHNNV FORD 
From Indianapolis Cathedral. 

game is running so long I'm tired of looking at it." 
Coach George Keogan, newspaper­men, players, and officials repeatedly asked, "how much time to go?" Each time they asked it was a little less, but there was still a feeling that there was too much time remaining. In fact when timekeepers announced 12% minutes remaining, a fan sit­ting beside them holding a Swiss stop-watch with which he unofficially times all games as a diversion — if any be needed af Notre Dame — said, "My watch must be wrong, I have only a minute and a quarter left." The score was 21 to 15 for Notre Dame. 
By comparing timepieces, it was found some ten minutes later, that the official watch had not stopped but had gone into convulsions, running a minute in 60 seconds at times, and running a minute in 120 or 150 sec­onds at other times. 
To make the story short, the game i-an an extra (estimated) 12 to 15 minutes. In the last five minutes, Pitt scored ten points and won a 27 to 25 decision. 
You can't, we contend, make breaks to offset that sort of thing. 
But, lest we have given the im­pression of covering up or squawk­ing, allow us to go on record here as saying we are not of the impression that this team or this record needs any excuses. Notre Dame has met the best teams available in the East and Middle West, and will meet But­ler, Marquette, Minnesota, Temple, and Xavier in remaining games. It has won more games than it has lost, and it has always given its best. The boys, through no fault of their own or their coach's, simply don't know how to shoot baskets as well as they would like — and they haven't had the breaks. 
• TRACK 
It's a little different story in track, for Coach John P. Nicholson annual­ly announces that "we'll probably be a little better than last year, but won't have a great team," and then, during the season, says, if Notre Dame loses, "we had it coming to us," or, if Notre Dame wins, "we were awfully lucky to win that one." That's the kind of philosophy all coaches should use to save themselves a lot of come-downs and lots more worry. 
There was no question of chance in the victories over Chicago, 65 to 39, and over Iowa, 51 to 35. Maybe the third victorj' in three starts, over Marquette by a 48 to 47 margin, could be called lucky, but we like to lay it to the brilliant work of George Meagher, broad jump star, who, when his event wasn't carded, took second to Mike Layden in both the high and low hurdles. He and Layden togeth­er scored 16 out of a possible 18 points to put Notre Dame back in the running after Marquette had piled up commanding leads at two stages of the meet. The Notre Dame relay team won its event by 20 yards to clinch the decision. 
Orchids must go to Mike Layden for his fine work over the high and low sticks in the three meets this sea­son. He has been flirting with the local records held by Eoy Bailie and Johnny O'Brien. That he lost to Cretzmeyer of Iowa in the high hur­dles recently is easily explained to one's self if one has ever tried to run the hurdles during initiation week of the Monogram club. Mike denied vigorously to this department that the initiation had anj'thing to do with it, but we saw the evidence. 
More orchids to Don Elser who has extended his Notre Dame indoor shot put record a matter of nearly a foot to 47 feet 11 inches, cracking it twice in three meets this year; to Jack Ed­wards for winning the pole vault three times in three meets, the last time at 12 feet 9 inches, a new high for him; to Capt. Vincent Murphy for winning his 14th and 15th consec­tive dual meet victories in the high jump and then tying for first place in his 16th under the Irish colors; to George Meagher for his broad jump­ing which makes him a sure point winner in any meet you can name off hand, and for his great pinch-hitting 
1935 TENNIS SCHEDULE 

Apr. 24—Bradley here. 
Apr. 26—Wabash here. 
Apr, 30—Indiana at Blocmington. 
May 3—Northwestern at E\-anston. 
May 8—Chicago at Chicafro. 
May 11—Michisan State here. 
May 15—Ohio State at Columbus. 
May 17—Iliinois at Champaifni. 

May 22—^^Vestem State Teachers here. 
May 24-25—State meet at Richmond. 
MARTY PETERS 
From Peoria's Spalding. 

in the hurdles; to Salvadore Ducasa and Jim Shiels in the half mile, to Bob Bernard, Paul Rubly, Jim Par­sons, Jim Bowdren, and Jack Fraw­ley for their 440-yard dashes and three victories in three starts in the mile relay; to Arch Gott for his im­provement in the t\vo-mile and his victories in three starts; and finally to Jack McKenna, the plucky little miler whose third place against Mar­quette swung that vital one point to the Notre Dame side of the ledger, and whose great heai-t has given him • a good second in the other two meets against outstanding competitors. 
• FENCING 
Prof. Pedro de Landero, a frequent visitor to this office, spent much of his winter telling folks that his fenc­ing team would be the best in the Middle West, peculiar talk for a coach, but the lads have come through and are, without doubt, the best in the Middle West, in the sec­ond year of the sport at Notre Dame. Illinois, the only other claimant to the ranking of "best" was unable to come here for its scheduled match because of weather conditions, but Noti'e Dame defeated Purdue worse than the Illini defeated Purdue, and Notre Dame won all of its other matches handily. Before setting down the record, which is as follows, we wish to interject that the score was 9 to 3 over Cincinnati when Prof, de Landero inserted the subs and let Cincinnati score five points: 
Notre Dame. 11: Washinfrton U.. 6. Notre Dame, 12: Purdue, 5. Notre Dame. 11: Northwestern. 6. Notre Dame. 9 : Wittenbcrs. 5. Notre Dame. 10: Ohio State. 7. Notre Dame. 9: Cincinnati, S. 

One match remains, with Purdue at Lafayette, February 28. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Joseph 
H. Kraker, •29, 1776-24th St., CoyahoBa Falls, Ohio, President; Claude H. Homing, '29, 133 N. HieWand Ave., Alcron, Ohio, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA—James D, Barry, '97, Consolidated Bank Bide., Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil, '25, 620 N. Sixth St., Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS—Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope, President: Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Bt, Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., *02, Dacca, President; Rev. J. J. Hencssey, C.S.C., Dacca, Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BERRIEN COUN­TY—Wm. H : Do«-ney, '28, 1613 Oak St.. Niles, Mich., President: Malcolm K. Hatfield. 
•29, 2305 Niles Ave., St. Joseph. Mich.. Sccretarj-. 

Enthused by the success of its Christmas dance in Niles, the Berrien County Club is busy with happy planning for another club dance, this time in the Whitcomb Hotel in St. Joseph, Michigan, on March 2. IR­VING HALLET of St. Joe is general chairman in charge of the affair and his aids include the officers of the or­ganization and many of the members. 
In the absence of the president, PROFESSOR BILL DOWNEY who was confined to bed by the flu, Vice-President GENE O'TOOLE presided at a club meeting in the Hotel Whit­comb on Februarj- 4. A report show­ing the Christmas dance to have been a decided social and financial success was read and plans were discussed for the March 2 dance by the 25 members who were present. BILL DOOLEY, assistant alumni secretarj-, who had spoken at several St. Joe and Benton Harbor high schools ear­lier in the day, attended the meet­ing. Arrangements at the local high schools had been made by the club through Vice-President O'Toole. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON—Jarlath 
(Jack) Slattery, "31, 226 L. St.. South Bos­ton, President: James Skahan, '31, 5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass.. Secretary. 

BUFFALO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO—Roben Moore. '30. 31 Gerard PI.. President: Robert Meascr, '34. 120 Miller A.\Q.. Williarasvillc. N, Y., Secretar>'. 
The Notre Dame Club of Buffalo, through its president ROBERT MOORE, announces it will hold its second annual Easter Monday dance on the evening of April 22, in the ballroom of the Hotel Lafayette. ROBERT MEASER has been named general chairman of the affair. 
CALUMET DISTRICT 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUMET DIS­TRICT—John Stanton. '24. 1071 Broadway. Gary, Ind.. President: Fred J. Solman, Jr.. *2S. 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond. Ind.. Secrc-' 
taiy. 
On Thursday, February 7, at 7 
P. M., the Notre Club of the Calumet District met at the Woodman Coun­try Club, Hammond, Indiana, and en­joyed a fine dinner and meeting. 
In spite of a severe sleet storm in the early part of the evening, that covered streets and roads with glass ice, a crowd of fifty-five members and guests turned out for the meet­ing. 

ROBER T RIORDAN, Registrar, and JOE BOLAND, assistant coach, of the University, w^ere the guest speakers of the evening. 
Mr. Riordan gave a very interest­ing talk and answered questions of a number of prospective students who were present from several high schools of the district. 
Joe Boland showed the Club mov­ies (taken by the University) of the Army, Southern California, and Northwestern games, commenting on, and emphasizing the high-lights of each game. There being no business to be taken up at this meeting the balance of the evening was devoted to a discussion of the movies shown, and an informal session in general. 
President JOHN STANTON an­nounced before the meeting ad­journed that the next meeting and annual election of officers would be held in Gary, Indiana, on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
FRED J. SOLJLAJJ, JR., Secretai-}'. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITAL DISTRICT — Ronald McNamee, '24, 80 Church St., Balston Spa, N. Y., President: Richard Walsh, '31, 110 Union St , Schen­ectady, N. Y., Secretary. 
Your card, post-marked February 9, requested copy for the club sec­tion of the ALUMNUS. Inasmuch as the Notre Dame Club of the Capital District has no activity to report in this issue I thought that you might be interested in receiving some mate­rial for the class columns. 
MIKE LEDING, '33, has been se­lected to take the advanced engineer­ing course at the General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y. Mike received his master's degree at R. P. 
I. last year. At R. P. I. he was on the football coaching staff. 
JACK L-4ND, '34, after a short period on the test course at the Gen­eral Electric Company's Schenectady Works, has been chosen in competi­tion, to follow a training course lead­ing to a production supervisoi-j' posi­tion. 
DICK WALSH, '31, has been trans­ferred from marine engineering and sales work in the Federal and Marine Department of the General Office of the General Electric Company at Schenectady, N. Y. to the Motor Sales Division of the Industrial De­partment of that company. 
I hope that these items will be an acceptable contribution. Next month the Capital District Club will un­doubtedly have some club activities to report. 
DICK WALSH, Secretary. 
• 


CHICAGO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO—James 
F. McNicholas. '25. 7608 Phillips Ave.. Chi­cago, President; Neil C. Hurley, Jr.. '32, 914 Ashland Ave., Kiver Forest, HI.. Sec­retary. 
The Chicago Club will be an important factor in the annual convention of the National Catho­lic Alumni Federation which is to be held in Chicago, at the Palmer House, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, April 25, 26, and 27. Already the officers and many members of the club are earnestly at work on the arrangements in co-operation with other Catholic alumni in the territory. The pro­gram will include speakers of na­tional repute. All the sessions will be of outstanding interest. 
Better plan to reserve all your spare time the last three days of the week after Easter. You'll want to uphold the name of Notre Dame. 
Details of the convention are dsewhere in this number of the ALUMNUS. 

CINCINNATI NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI— 
W. D. Horrissey, '26, 700 Este Bldt:., Presi­dent: Joseph Kinneary, '28, 1717 Gemwood Ave., Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati held its first ladies' party on January 8 at the Kemper Lane Hotel. We had some twenty Notre Dame men and their ladies in attend­ance. A very, fine dinner was served by Mr. FRANK SWEENEY, Mana­ger of the Kemper Lane, and after giving the fair sex an inside on the campus life at Notre Dame, we at­tended in a ; body the Paramount Theatre where we saw Grace Moore in "One Night of Love." All in all. 
it was a splendid get-away for the first ladies' party in our regime and I trust it will be a precedent. 
It was our very great pleasure on December 22 to be guests of the Hudepohl Brewing Companv with BOB KUERZE, an old Notre Dame graduate, and needless to say we were surprised at the number of young men now attending Notre Dame from Cincinnati and vicinity. The following students at Notre Dame gathered to meet the members of the alumni: HERBERT GARD­NER, WILLIAM RYE, WALTER NIENABER, MILLER MALLET, JOE LEONARD, BERT SCHLOEM­ER, MATT THERNES, JOHN COT­TINGHAM, J. FREDRICK MEIS­TER, BOB BURKE, BILL GOND, ANDREW HELMUTH, ROBERT W. VAN LAHR, and PAUL MUELLER. 
I have a little news of some of the alumni. Very sorrj- to be losing ANDY BARTON, who has been with us for several years. Mr. Barton is being trasferred by the Kellogg Com­pany to Syracuse, New York. Our good wishes follow him. 
LEO DUBOIS is leaving on a ten-day trip for Texas to represent the Real Estate Board of Cincinnati. Duby expects to drop off on his way back from Tulsa and Sapulpa, Okla­homa, his old home towns. He told me that he expected to visit JERRY JONES, who graduated from Notre Dame and who was the former assist­ant coach at Xavier Universitj-, Cin­cinnati. 
FRANK SWEENEY has just about completed the remodeling of the Kemper Lane Hotel, which has given the place new life and has shown a very decided increase in business. 
I have no further news at the pres­ent writing except to inform you that I had all plans made to come to the football banquet, but at the last min­ute they fell through. I certainly re­gret this very much because listening to Will Rogers over the radio last night I was reminded again of the very pleasant evening I would have had visiting with some of my friends at the University. 
Kindly remember me to ELMER LAYDEN, ART HALEY, Mr. HOY­ER and JOE BOLAND. 
With kindest personal regards to you and Mrs. Armstrong, believe me to be 
W. D. MORRISSEY. 
• 

CLEVELAND 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVEUVND— William K. Ryan. 'II. 1881 Rostlinil Ave. East Cleveland. President: Pierce .1. O'Con­nor, '28. 1041 Hanna Bids.. Ocveland. Secretarj*. 
The Club's Christmas dance, which was still in prospect when I last wrote you, proved to be the most en­joyable and financially successful party we have had here in some time. An orchid to CHAIRMAN LEROUX and his very able first assistant, CHET BRUMLEVE. We were par­
The ^otre 'Dame cA lumnus 
ticularly pleased with the whole­hearted support of the Campus Club members, who turned out in force, with their friends, and gave the proper collegiate touch to the affair. 
One good party calls for another, and even though the date is some time hence, plans are already under way for the Easter dance. CHET BRUMLEVE will be General Chair­man. Entertainment will be under the direction of BILL VAN ROOY" and BILL KNAPP, decorations will be personally supex-vised by JACK SONNHALTER, and in\'itations sent forth by PAT CANNY and FRANK BELTING. An-angements in general will be directed by LARRY KRAL and WALT RAUBER, and GAY HAAS will attend to publicity. 
On the more serious side, we are planning our annual retreat to be held this year, for the third time, at St. Stanislaus novitiate in Parma. The date will probably be early in March though none has yet been fixed. Arrangements will be made by TOM BYRNE, Chairman, assisted by GEORGE BELTING, ED BLATT, JOHN COLLINS, FRANK CULL, ART GALLAGHER, JOE GAVIN, BOB KELLY, JOHN MATOUSEK, HARRY MILLER, CHUCK MOON­EY, DENNIS O'NEILL, ED ORLI­KOWSKI, JOHN QUINN, MART RINI, HAROLD RUPPEL, JOE SCALISE, BOB TISCHLER, MATT TRUDELLE, TOM YARR, CLAY­TON LEROUX, BILL RYAN and DR. H. G. McCARTY. 
GEORGE KOZAK, who played at tackle at Notre Dame for two years, the first under Knute Rockne, in 1930, has just been appointed head coach at John Adams High School here. George's brother, CLARENCE KOZAK, we hear, is the Jim Farley of Maple Heights. 
JOE BUTLER has joined his fa­ther, FRANK BUTLER, as an associ­ate in the recently formed firm of Lawrence Cook and Company, which will deal in investment securities, particularly municipal bonds, with offices at 603 Fidelity Building. 
MAURICE WELSH, formerly with Sears, Roebuck & Co. here, is now with Firestone Co. in Akron. 
JIM DEVITT is still receiving con­gi-atulations on the birth of a daugh­ter, now four months old. 
TOM BYRNE has been made sales manager of the Ohio Bell Telephone Company. This, we understand, hap­pened a couple of months ago, and is the latest in a series of rapid promo­tions which have come to our ex-President. 
CHUCK ROHR, host at all Cleve­land Club meetings and lunches, and Miss Loretta Kramer, a member of the St. Mary's Club here, were mar­ried at the Log Chapel at Notre Dame, this past week. 
PIERCE J. O'CONNOR, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTI­CUT VALLEY—Thomas E. Ferguson. '26. 37 Windsor St.. Thompsonville. Conn.. Presi­dent: Francis D. Ahem. •29. 1 Webster St.. Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS —James P. Swift, '24, 1202 Soothwestem Life Bid?.. Dallas. President; Francis A. McCuUoosh, '30. 917 First National Banl: Bids- Dallas. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAUB CLUB OF DAYTON—Amos Clay, '15, Union Trust Bids., President; An­drew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 210 Lexington Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER—Robert Dick. '29, 930 Grant St., President: Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES— James C. Shaw, '22, 307 Equitable Bids-President: F. M. Wonderlin, '29, 302 Hub-bell BIdg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLtTB OF DETROIT—Chas. Molz. '24, 3010 W. Chicago Blvd.. President: Robert Baty. '30, 18074 Ohio Ave., Secre­tary, 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA — James D. Hayes, '17, 5115 Eighth St., N.W., Washington, President: Harry M. Ambrose, '25. 1722-19th SL. N.W.. Secretary, 
The enclosed clipping from the Washington Herald gives you the low down on the latest N. D. activity in the District of Columbia. 
Following our dance, some time next month we are having our an­nual meeting for election of officers. I do hope the new secretary will be all I have not — and keep you well informed as to Notre Dame affairs in the nation's capital. 
Congratulations on the last issue of the ALUMNUS, it was splendid, and after ten years absence it sure made me long for a visit to the old school. 
Tomorrow night [February 15] all will be Notre Dame on the Potomac. Reservations are in for 100 couples, the largest turnout of Notre Dame men the local club has ever seen. It looks like a big success, and here's hoping the crowd has a grand time. 
Until after the Ball, and. other events— HEZ AMBROSE, '25. 
The clipping: "Preparations for the annual ball given by the University of Notre Dame Club of Washington, to be held Friday at the Wardman Park Hotel, are now being made by several com­mittees under the supervision of JAMES D. HAYES, president of the local organization. 
"Among the prominent alumni to be present are FRANK C. WALKER, former executive secretary of the President's Emergency Council; AM­BROSE O'CONNELL, executive as­sistant to the Postmaster General; Representative GRANFIELD; Repre­sentative CLARK; DR. ZAHM; FREDERICK WILLIAM WILE. PAUL MALLON, and ARTHUR BERGMAN. Other distinguished guests attending the ball will be Sen­ator David I. Walsh, Senator Sher­
man Minton and Representative Pet­
tengiU. 
"Those heading the various com­
mittees for the ball are: THOMAS 
MARKET, in\-itations; BERNARD 
E. LOSHBOUGH, tickets; HARRY 
M. AMBROSE, publicitj'; CHARLES MANNIX, music; RUDOLPH RICE, floor committee, and THOMAS CAR­VER, distinguished guests. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EAST. PENN­SYLVANIA—Leo E. Mclnlyre. '28. Beftle­hem. Pa., President 
NOTRE DAME CHJB OF ERIE. PA.—Rich­ard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times, Presi­dent: Thomas Barber, '2-*, 416 Newman SL. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY—James Murphy, '22, 611 Security Bids., Brid^port, Conn., President; Joseph 
E. Busso, '32, 166 Hougrh Ave., Bridjreport. Conn., Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE 
NOTKB DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE— Robert Eggeman, '30, Old First Bank Bids-President; Thomas McKiernan, '27, Fort Wayne National Bank, Secretary. 
Just a few items of interest re­garding graduates and old students that are now residing in Fort Wayne. 
At the outset I might mention that the brewery industry in Fort Wayne has a good representation of Notre Dame on their staffs. The Centli\'re Brewery officials staff is composed of graduates and old students, to-wit: CHARLEY REUSS, 11; JOHN REUSS, '18; FRANK CENTLIVRE; CARL CENTLIVRE; CLARENCE CENTLIVRE; HERMAN CENT­LIVRE, '25; AUSTIN CENTLIV­RE ;LOUIS CENTLIVRE, while the Hoff Brau Brewery has NORB BERGHOFF as its Vice President and ED BERGHOFF as its Treas­urer. 
PAT DONAHUE, '27, FATHER O'MALLEY'S purgatory on earth, is now practicing law and is Lectur­er General Council of Knights of Columbus. While mentioning the Knights of Columbus, BYRON HAYES, '13, is Advocate and HEN­RY HASLEY, "28 is District Deputj-; FRED SCHOFPMAN, '30 is Deputy Grand Knight. 
The Catholic Youth Organization of Fort Wayne, recently instituted by his Excellency, Most Reverend John 
F. Noll, D.D., is very w^ell represent­ed by Notre Dame men on its official staff. HARRY HOGAN, '04, is Chair­man of the Board and DONNELLY 
P. MCDONALD, '12, is chairman of the Finance Committee. It seems that most of the Committee of the Fort Wayne Catholic Youth Organi­zation is headed by Notre Dame men, such as HERMAN CENTLIVRE, '25; FRANK CORBETT, '30; ROB­ERT EGGEMAN, '30; NORBERT BERGHOFF; CHARLES M. NIE­ZER; PAUL SAGSTETTER, '25; CLIFF WARD, '23. 

The 'JSlotre 'Dame cAlumnus 
Incidently, CLIFF WARD has a very good article this week in Com­momoeal. ARTHUR W. MILLER, A.B., '28, was married last Wednes­day to Mrs. Juanita Bowman. Art has been doing very well in the Trust Department of the Lincoln Bank and has moved with his bride to 1412 O-xford Street, Fort Wayne. 
FRANK METRAILER, B.S.E.E., 
'29, has been doing quite well in the 
Refrigeration Department of the 
General Electric. Some of his new 
ideas regarding refrigeration have 
been accepted by the General Electric 
and have made him considerable 
other income. Paul Sagstetter telis 
me that he is still quite a student. 
Paul says on several occasions he 
has tried to get him to go to parties 
but Frank had to "stay home and 
studv." 
THOMAS A. McKIERNAN. 
Three hundred couples attended the annual formal ball given on De­cember 27 at the Catholic Com­munity Center by the Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club. The ballroom was lighted in soft golden and red tones by large floodlights. A gaily dec­orated and lighted Christmas tree stood at one end of the room and the lounge was decorated with sev­eral silver trees. Each table for the cabaret affair was centered with a bud vase holding poinsettias. A large Notre Dame insignia was placed at one end of the hall. Clyde Mc­Coy and his orchesti:a from the Drake Hotel in Chicago provided music for dancing from 10 until 2 o'clock. 
Arrangements for the dance were made by the campus club assisted by the Fort Wayne alumni group. ROBERT EGGEMAN is head of the alumni association and Paul Staub is president of the campus group. Robert Haley sen-ed as general chairman for the function assisted by a committee comprising James Foohey, Bernard Niezer, Richard Mc-Ardle, Richard Biggins, and Thomas Schiefer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE GOGEBIC RANGE—Victor E. Lemmer. '26, P.O. Box 661, Iron^vood. Mich., President: Harold C. Cannon, '13, Curry Hotel, Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAPIDS, MICH.—Georce E. Ludwis, '25, 328 Glen-haven Ave., N. W., President; Raymond J. Bonini, '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., S.E., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY— Harold L. Londo, '24. City Ensineers' Office. City Hall, Green Bay, Wis.. President: Levi 
A. Geniesse, '24, 610 Minahan Bids., Green Bay, Wis., Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86, 338 S. Second St, President: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rent-, schler Bids., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND— Norman Bartholomew, '15, 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich., Pre»­idcnt: Michael S. Corry, '27, 837 Terrace Ave., Marinette, Wis., Secretary. 
March, 1935 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON—M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston, Texas, President: T. P. Green, Jr., '27. Conroe, Texas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOUS —Harry Scott '17, 838 N. Delaware St, President: John Carton, '28, City Halt, En­sineerins Dept, Secretary. 
JOHET 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Joseph Silk. '20, 820 Ohio St . President: Thomas Feciey, '32, 316 Buell Ave, Secretary. 
I am sending you just a little news from our section of your alumni. The usual seasonal lull is upon us at present. At our regular meeting held Tuesday February 5, at the Wood­ruff Hotel, we had twelve members in attendance. 
It is customai-y to nominate officers for the coming year at this meeting and the following mens' names were presented for election at the March meeting:—President, ROBERT BAS­kenrtlle — ROBERT DUFFY; Vice-President, THOMAS FEELY —JOS­EPH ADLER; Secretary-Treasurer, DR E. J. MAYER—EDWARD H. KING. 
It promises to be a hot campaign. Upon receipt of a letter from DR. 
D. M. NIGRO of Kansas City it was decided to hold a banquet on the eve-evening of March 4 in memory of KNUTE K. ROCKNE. A speaker of local prominence will preside and the banquet will be open to the gener­al public. Mr. Duffy is chairman mth Mr. King and Mr. Lennon serv­ing as committeemen. 
A dance was proposed for the Eas­ter holidays with details to be worked out at the next meeting. 
I hope to have more news for you ne.xt month and take this means of wishing you continued success. 
THOMAS P. FEELY, JR., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY— Daniel F. Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave., F t Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John M. Dosan. '27. 7401 Terrace Ave., Kansas <3ty. Mo., Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Albert 
J. Gehert '30, U. of Wichita. Wichita, President: Dan Wclchons, "30. S06 E. 13th St, Hutchinson, Secretary. 
KENTUCKY 
NOTRE D-WrB CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Eusene J. Steuerle, '25. 1439 Willow Ave., Louisville, Ky., President: John Bannon, 
•32, 2011 Sherwood, Louisville, Ky., Secre­tary. 
About the only news at the present time in Kentucky and the adjacent southern section of Indiana is the fact that R-AY PFEIFFER, Class of '32, is to be married after Lent and that BERNIE BLOEMER has recent­ly moved to Lexington, Kentucky, 
Ray is marrying Miss Louise Schwartzel of New Albany, Indiana, sister of CHARLIE, Class of '34, and JOHN, Class of '38. 
Bemie is planning to operate a store in Lexington and make that metropolis "Bloemer Chili" conscious or bust in the attempt. Lexington will probably run a bad second in the fight, if there is any. 

The rest of the fellows all seem to be working, as far as I know, some in business, others as lawyers and some still studying in the medical school here in Louisville, which still turns out good doctors. 
JOHN BANNON, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF lAPORTE, IN­DIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. 'IS. 1607 Indi­ana Ave., LaPorte, President; Norman Dnke, '33, 304 Miles St., Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTKB DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES— Tliomas Heam, '15. 1120 Pacific Finance Bids.. President: Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Oerea Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CHJB OF MANILA—Jaoobo Zobel, '23, Manila, F.I. President; A. F. Gonzales. '25, Insular Life Bids., 2nd Fl.. Manila, Secretary. 
MEMPHIS 
NOTKE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS—Wal­ter J. Fransioli. Jr., '34. 218 N. McLean Blvd.. President: Tlieon Dohosne, '27, 1072 
S. Wellington St., Secretary. 
On the night of December 27, 1934, the Notre Dame Club of Mem­phis held an election and elected WALTER J. FRANSIOLI, JR., '34, president, DAVID SAXON, '29, as vice-president, and THEON DO­HOGNE, '27, as secretary-treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL IHCH­IGAN—Joseph W. Stack, '15, 1028 Chester­field Pfcwy., East Lansing, President: Charles J. Connor, *33, Carson City, Mich­igan, Secretary. 
MILWAUKEE 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE— 
P. Dudley Pearson. '19, 2037 N. Lake Drive, President; John Oauder. '34, 735 it. Water St, temporary secretary. 
Here is the news from the "Beer City" for the enlightenment of our fellowmen. 
A block of tickets for the Mar­quette-Notre Dame basketball game have been obtained for the sole use of Milwaukee alumni. Up to this time the tickets have been going good, so you can tell the team that they will at least have a good cheer­ing section behind them. The seats are right behind the N. D. bench. 
Plans are also under way for en­tertaining JOE BOLAND on his way through our fair city. Many have shown interest and we expect a good turnout. Our high schools will be contacted before then in order to as­sure us of some students. No need to say we are all looking forward to seeing the pictures Joe will bring with him. 
Two of our members are now in Washington, D. C. working for the government. They are JOSEPH 
The "^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
DORAIS, '17, and PAUL BRUST, '28. JOHN BRUST, '34, is also in Washington, studying at Catholic University while ROLAND BUNCH, '33, is now at the University of Chi­cago studying medicine. We will soon have the honor of having NEIL EBERT, '33, of Sandusky, Ohio, up here for his wedding. No need to say that many of our members will be in attendance. Roland Bunch will be best man. 
That's all the news we have to offer for this time, but next month we hope to be able to tell all about the swell time we had at the basket­ball game as well as at the banquet for JOE BOLAND. 
JOHN CLAUDER. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA—Eari 
W. Btown. '93. 320 Power St. Helena, Pres­ident; James B. O'Flynn, '11, Great Falls. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE— Robert P. WDIiams. Jr.. '29, 106 Gallatin Road. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY— 
B. K, Wingerter. '26, 113 S. Ointon St, East Orange, New Jersey, President; Ed­ward Hargan. '25. 178 De Witt Ave., Belle­ville, New Jersey, Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA-Royal H. Bosshard, '17. 324 Sansome SU, San Francisco, President; Robert B. Hill, '23, 5033 Proctor Ave., Oak­land, Secretary. 
NEW YORK CITY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—Edward A. Fallon. '26. 2 Lafayette St, President; J. Norbert Gclson, Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. Secretary. 
At a luncheon on Saturday, Janu­arj' 12 in the Centre Club we were honored to have as our guests, FA­THER JOHN F, O'HARA, C.S.C, MARTIN H. CARMODY, Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus, and the following supreme directors oi the K. of C, all N. D. alumni: TIM GALVIN, President of the Na­tional Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion, RAY MILLER, one of the fa­mous Miller brothers, and LEO CRAIG. 
The luncheon was arranged on short notice, but nevertheless we had a very good turnout. 
On the night of February 7, Fa­ther Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C, re­ceived a medal from the American Institute of the City of New York. Several Notre Dame alumni had luncheon with Father Nieuwland that noon in the Empire State Club, 21st floor of the Empire State Building. 
The annual election of a nominat­ing committee was held at a meet­ing of the club on February 13 in the Centre Qub. 
The following members were elect­ed on the committee: WARREN FOGEL, WALTER DONNELLY, WILLIAM A. DAUNT, DAN HAL­16 
PIN, JOHN HINKEL , ROBERT 
HAMILTON, and HUGH A. CDON­
NELL. 
DOC GELSON. 
—ND— 

HUGH O'DONNELL adds the fol­lowing interesting items to the New York section: 
JOHN T. BALFE, the local in­surance magnate, and JAMES HAYES, erstwhile secretary of the Fifth Avenue Association of New York City, have joined with Captain 
J. Pedrick, President of the latter, in an insurance and real estate com­pany. All three are receiving the congratulations and best wishes of friends. They will maintain their membership and official capacity with the Fifth Avenue Association with the exception of Mr. Hayes who will be succeeded as secretary by HARRY SYLVESTER, who has resigned as a special writer on the Brooklyn Eagle. 
All of FATHER O'HARA'S friends are delighted that he is going abroad to get a much needed rest. The Notre Dame Club of New York ap­pointed a special committee to wire him,—^requesting the date he would pass through New York for his voy­age. They were anxious to give him a farewell reception. However he nired: "Deeply appreciate kindly thought behind your suggestion but cannot entertain the idea of a fare­well reception. Please allow me t« slip out unobserved. I am seriously in need of a complete rest. Thanks just the same." 
JOHN HINKEL sends the dope as follows on the happily conceived Thursday Night Club: 
Congratulations on turning out a mighty splendid February ALUMNUS. I've always wanted a pictorial version of Notre Dame to show friends who have sons or other relatives that are possible Notre Dame students. Your "brain child" certainly fills the biU. 
Have you heard of the Thursday Night Club which has just been formed by some of the New York alumni? It meets every Thursday night at the Centre Club (an organi­zation of Catholic college graduates for promoting Catholic Action) for dinner, bowling, bridge and some good old-fashioned "bull-sessions" a la Sorin Hall. Thirty-two N. D. men attended last Thursday's meeting and the number is expected to grow with every future meeting. 
JOHN T. BALFE, '20, TOM LAN­TRY, and JIM O'CONNOR, both of '29, and DAN HALPIN and VINCE TURLEY, both of '30, are some of the leading spirits behind the Thurs­day Nighters. They've mapped out an excellent program of Catholic Action and committees are being appointed now to carry it out. Notre Dame, and 
164 
the promotion of everything pertain­ing to the old school, naturally occu­pies first place on this program. 
A blanket invitation to all Notre Dame men to "jine up" or to attend any meeting or meetings is extended by the Thursday Nighters. The meet­ing place is the Centre Club, 120 Central Park, South. Would you mention this in the next ALUMNUS, please? Visiting N. D. men are espe­cially welcome. 
If I'm not too presumptuous, Jim, could you let me have a dozen copies of the February ALUMNUS? I can do some invaluable missionary -work •with them here in New York. Send them to me at the Times, and many, many thanks. 
P. S. I suppose you've heard of the new Notre Dame Congressman— Representative CLARK of Idaho. I think he got his A.B, at Notre Dame in 1916. [Ed's Note: It was in 1922.] 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
NOTRE DAIIE CLUB OF LODISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. 'SS. 307 Camp St., New Orleans. President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28. Whitney-Central Bide.. New Orleans. Secretary. 
I am enclosing a few items with reference to the Alumni in New Or­leans and vicinity. 
The Alumni at the suggestion of DR. D. M. NIGRO ivill hold a lunch­eon on Monday, March 4 in memory of our dear fellow alumnus KNUTE ROCKNE. On account of the Mardi Gras occupying the attention of all our citizens and the thousands of vis­itors who are attracted to New Or­leans, the time is not propitious for an extended program — yet we will use our best efforts to have a goodly number present on that occasion. If any of the alumni are visiting in New Orleans at that time please commun­icate OTth P. E. BURKE, president, 307 Camp Street and he will try and be of some help to them during their stay. 
The city was honored during the past ten days with the presence of the VERY REV. JAMES BURNS, C.S.C, Provincial of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. But he is so retiring and modest and so attentive to duty that he did not make known his presence to the members of the alumni until the day before his departure for Tex­as. Father Bums was a student at the University and, en pasant, he was the best catcher that Notre Dame ever produced during her many years of service. The writer was a mem­ber of his class, as well as that other young collegian, REV. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. Time does not seem to have any effect on their youth and we hope that they will be spared—ad inidtos annos—and give their strength for the further prog­ress of Notre Dame. 
The members of the alumni are do­

The t^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
ing good things in New Orleans and reflect credit on their Alma Mater. The FAVEET boys are in the con­tracting business with their father, Lionel Favret, who takes a deep in­terest in all the institutions of Holy Cross. CHARLES DE LA VERGNE is an attorney for the Home Owners Loan Society. BOLAN BURKE one of the many attorneys in the office of Dufour, St. Paul, Levy and Miceli, is obtaining another college education «Testling with the many problems that continually spring up while rep­resenting the R.F.C. and the liqui­dators of the two largest banks in the south. Bolan spent four years under the tutelage of Knute Rockne as stu­dent manager and his course was so thorough that Bolan was able to com­plete his studies in the University during the last few months of his four year stay. CYPRIAN SPORL, JR. who is associated with his father in the general insurance business, is making good use of his law in the many intricate problems that come up in that honorable profession. 
There are a number of other prom­inent men of the aliunni in the dis­trict of Louisiana and Mississippi but it will be our pleasure to make men­iton of them at another time. 
I might mention that New Orleans clergy have been enriched by the ad­dition of the Very REV. LOUIS KELLEY, C.S.C., who has succeeded the Very REV. IHCHAEL QUINLAN who has been assigned new duties in Seattle. Father Kelley has many qual­ities that endear him to his congrega­tions, which is one of the largest in the city, as well as all who have come in contact ^vith him. 
Holy Cross College under the direc­tion of BROTHER GILBERT, C.S.C. is making advances rapidly and is one of the leading colleges for the educa­tion of young men in the commercial science . BROTHER LEONARD, C.S.C, who had charge of the boys during several years is sadly missed by all who knew his worth. The plays he produced at Holy Cross proved to be the best amateur productions in the country. The athletics and the band are the outstanding features of the college. 
With the kindest regards to the men who remember me and hoping that Notre Dame will continue to lead the other colleges of the country I remain, 
P. E. BURKE. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
NOTRE DASIE CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO 
—Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15, Hosier Real­
ty Bids., Columbns, President, 
We enjoyed the basketball teams in Columbus yesterday, although they lost a nice ball game to Ohio State. A little prejudiced I guess, but it looked to me like Ohio State made the difference in score largely be­March, 1935 
cause a few wild shots counted and several by "our side" that might just as well have rolled in curled the other way on the hoop. 
JOE BOLAND and TOM CONLEY made a good impression over WBNS in an interview with Bill McKinnon, the Globe Trotter at 6:15 P. M. on the 31st. 
DON HAMILTON, JACK CAN­NON, DAN DUFFY, now secretary for Governor Davey, HARRY NES­TER, and DOC DUNN were on the job as usual, as well as many other faithful followers. Had lunch with them, and Jack Cannon did the chauffering for the afternoon. 
We met all the boys, Peters, O'Kane, Ford, Wade, Jordan, Elser, Ireland, and some names I'm sorry to say I forgot. We missed George Keogan, who was detained at home as we understand by a bad cold. 
This letter is just to let you know that we are pleased to have had this opportunity and hope your relations with Ohio State continue in this same fine way. 
RAY J. EICHENLAUB, 
President. 
A letter from Eich conveys that pleasant news that the club is now having luncheons in Columbus on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month and that the turn-out for them so far has been very grati­fying. A wire from FATHER HUGH O'DONNELL thanked the club for its support in boosting the Ohio State-Notre Dame game to be played in Columbus next Fall and pledged continued co-operation on the part of the University administration. The aim of the club is break all records with regard to ticket demand at Ohio State and in pursuit of that aim Eich and his boys are seeking the assist­ance of other alumni and alumni clubs in the territory. Eich's address is 207 Hoster Realty Building, Co­lumbus. Will Akron, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Dayton, Toledo et al. please copy? 
Jack Cannon was to be interviewed over Station WBNS on February 15 and on February 16 the club was to have a stag party, afternoon and evening, at the Knights of Columbus Home in Columbus. Dances and other parties are to be held before June. Nice going. Central Ohio! 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP OKLAHOMA— Jos. A. Moran. '32. 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. Okla., President: Norbert F. Skelly. '25. University Club. Tulsa. Okla.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Frank 

T. Collier, '08. 721 Yeon Building. Portland. President: William C. Schmitt, '10, Consol­idated Equipment Co., Portland, Secretary. ' 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Holders of Permanent Seats: Lnuis P. Harl. '16, Paris Office. N. Y. Heratd. 

PEORIA 
NOTKE DA&IE CLUB OF PEORIA—Ernest 
C. HediinRGr, '32, 301 Barker St . President; Al Gary, '28. 612 Albany Ave., Secretary. 
Here's a flash from Peoria. The Notre Dame Club of Peoria continues its monthly meeting and dinner, the second Tuesday of each month at the UiUversity Club at 6:30. The last meeting addressed by Attorney JOHN CASSIDY and Mr. Oakley, ed­itor of the Peoria Star. We have de­cided to issue membership cards along with the payment of dues of .$1.00 to members of the club. These dues go to help along the activities of the club. 
BHJL MOTSETT is still in the sanitarium, but feeling much better. The club has asked me to relieve Bill of his duties, as secretary and treas­urer and so I again will keep you posted on our activities. By the way ERNIE HECHINGER is president of the club. So, will you change the line-up of the Peoria Club in the ALUMNUS. 
We are again looking forward to a visit from you or soneone from Notre Dame this early spring. 
Postmaster James Farley is coming to Peoria to speak at the Creve Cour Club dinner on Washington's Birth­day and so they have selected a Notre Dame man. Attorney John Cassidy, to handle arrangements. 
Congratulations Notre Dame, St. Joe VaUey Club and W.G.N, on the. splendid football banquet. Many peo­ple in Peoria heard and enjoyed the broadcast. 
BOB WARD, '34, is in the Peoria Public sanatorium, but from late re­ports is feeling much better. 
AL GURY, JR. 
—ND— 
February 17, 1935. 

Just a little "Winchellism" from Peoria. FATHER BOURKE MOT­SETT, class of '31, will arrive in Peoria from Rome this coming May. BILL MOTSETT, '34, has recovered from illness and again is looking as fit as ever. 
A fine bouncing baby boy has ar­rived in the family of Mr. and Mrs. ALOIS WELZENBACH. Mrs. Wel­zenbach is the former Adelaid Pilcher of South Bend. 
The Notre Dame .\lumni Club of Peoria will honor the birth of Rockne by having a dinner at the University club on March the fourth at 6:30 
P. M. All Peoria High coaches will attend as the guests of the alumni club. The speaker of the evening will be the Rev. Father Alphonse Freehill, O.S.B., formerly athletic di­rector of St. Bede -Academy of Peru, Illinois. Father Alphonse is the new athletic "director of Spalding Institute of Peoria. Please give this informa­tion to BILL DOOLEY, as the Rever­
The 'T^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
end Father and the writer discussed Bill, a St. Bede alumnus, (pro and con). The city of Peoria feels highly honored in having as one of its citi­zens the illustrious Father Alphonse. He is hard at work with Father New­man of St. Teresa's of Decatur, Illi­nois in promoting the all state Cath­olic high school tournament, which will be held in Decatur, Illinois on the days of March 1, 2, and 3. Al­ready one thousand season pass books have been sold for this tournament. 
Congratulations Notre Dame on the publication of Notre Dame Men. Is it possible for you to send me twelve copies that I may place in the hands of citizens of Peoria. There certainly is a lot of good material coming up to Notre Dame from Pe­oria. 
AL GURY, JR. 
• 

PHOENIX 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHOENIX —E , John Hilkcrt. '22. Box 62. President: Julius 
J. Dauch, '25, 343 N. 20th Ave., Secretary. 
Due to the rush of the Holidays just over all activities were side­tracked for the purpose, which was necessary—to get our breath. 
However belated our message. The Notre Dame Club of Phoenix, wishes to congratulate ELMER LAYDEN and his team and wish him many successful seasons to come. 
In line with your policy of having some member of the AJma Mater visit the local clubs through the country, we are making plans for the year and are in hopes that it will be possible to get none other then Elmer Layden, himself in person to visit our hamlet. We assure you that it •vnW be appro­priate and that the occassion will well merit it. More on this subject at a latter time. Plans are being formu­lated now. 
Another question. Is the Glee Club traveling out this way? If so, when? 
The Notre Dame-Southern Califor­nia Game was attended by a joint radio party a tthe Arizona Club by alumni of Notre Dame and of South-em California. We spent quite some time and effort to get this game over the local broadcasting station with the result that the pressure in San Francisco and Los Angeles was strong enough to permit our local sta­tion to broadcast the Game. The party was well attended. 
Since there is no other news only plans for some real live wire activi­ties in the near future will sign off for the time being. 
JULIUS J. DANCH, Secretary. 

PITTSBURGH 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP WESTERN PENN-SYLVANIA—Ed. G. Byrnes. '25. 122 Hast­inss St, Pittsburfch. President: Charles Shecdy, "33, 6540 Bryant St, Pittsburgh. Secretary. 
Again I most apologize for the dearth of news from the Fittsbnij^ sector, but this is the dull season, and there isn't really a great deal to write about. 
It is stale news, I suppose, that JOE BACH has signed to coach the Pittsburgh National League football team next season. The local pro team has not been too successful dur­ing the last couple of years, but everyone is certain that with Bach in the driver's seat things will be look­ing up. 
As long as we're on football, we might as well mention that CHRISTY FLANAGAN has signed a contract to take Bach's place as head coach at Duquesne University, with JOHNNY SMITH, captain and All-American guard at Notre Dame in 1927, as as­sistant coach. 
A. couple of weeks ago ELMER LAYDEN and ART HALEY stopped off in Pittsburgh on their way to New York for the coaches' meeting. It was a surprise visit, to give Elmer a chance to say hello to his many friends in Pittsburgh. As many of the district alumni as could be reached were told that they were in town, and we had a fine reunion luncheon at the Commodore. 
One of the newest members of the Notre Dame contingent in the Pitt Law School is BILL ROCKENSTEIN, of Butler, class of '34." VINCE BURKE, another Pitt lawyer, knocked off for a week or so in Flor­ida after his semester exams. He really needed a rest, because the sec­ond year is tough — but he made the grade in fine shape. 
The Thursday luncheons are very well attended, considering that this is not football ticket time. The mem­bers of the old guard never fail to show up: DR. LEO CDONNELLj EDDIE BYRNES, JACK SHEEDY, AL DIEBOLD, BILL STEITZ, FRITZ WILSON, TOM and BEENIE CONROY, JIMMY DODSON, ED NEBEL, JOHNNY RYAN, JOHN RIORDAN, and a good many others. 
Fritz Wilson is at the present mo­ment serving on the jury in the Crim­inal Court, and is having the time of his life. 
CHARLES E. SHEEDY, Secretary. 

PHILADEPHIA 
NOTRE DASIB CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA —AuKost Deseh, '23. 1421 N. Broad St. President; Wm. E. Cooney, '31, 5725 KcMa­hon Ave., Secretary. 
Congratulations upon your fine February issue of the ALUMNUS. It surely received high praise from the local contingent, and it will give manv who have never seen Notre Dame a clear picture of that beauti­ful campus and the fine equipment. 
This club is coming through what is usually a dull period for alumni clubs fairly well. Oar Februarj­meeting brought forth twenty-five members and plentj- of action. To spread interest which is already live­ly in the N. D.-Temple basketball game on March 9, and at the same time add to a treasury, which has prospered well under the care of our financial ace G. T. DUGAN, we are conducting a drawing on tickets to the game. Temple sports a good team but we are expecting to see Coach Keogan's lads keep their rec­ord clean of defeat in Phila. 
Without a quiver of fear we have taken the momentous step if inviting the members' mothers, wives, sisters, and girls to join us as an auxiliary. We believe that this will broaden the s«ope of our activities and bring the members together more, so when ED BAILEY, '22, BOB REAGAN, '24, and CHARLIE McKINNEY, ex. '30, get their plans set you will hear how this new activity is going, 
JOHN NEESON, '03, read a bul­letin from FR. O'HARA which praised the idea of week-end retreats at Malvern Hill and urged us to get behind Mr. Neeson and promote a Notre Dame week-end. This bulletin and "Chief" Neeson's activity should bring a large number of the local alumni out to Malvern on the week­end of April 5 where you will enjoy more pleasant memories of Notre Dame than has been your good for­tume before. 
JACK McANULTY, '33, who is making good on the radio here as a fine tenor, and MARTIN LAMMERS, '19, were welcomed as new members; DR. KELVIN KASPER, '22, joined us after a long absence spent we hear in special clinical work; JOE DAL­SEY, '32, was on hand to praise Jer­sey justice; JOHN MARONEY'S ex. '33, challenges are bringing out the members in the club, so the future will soon hold a tournament to deter­mine the best and worst bowler. What a battle is due, Jim, with no holds barred. 
On January 29 ELMER LAYDEN was in town for the Sports Writers banquet receiving a great ovation from the scribes and guests. Mr. Layden's stay was too short to permit any reception by the dub, so MARTY BRILL who was also a guest of honor, HARRY STUHLDREHER, BOB REAGAN, and HARRY FRAN­CIS gave him our welcome at the dinner. 
BILL COONEY, '32. 

NOTRE DAME Ca.UB OF RHODE ISLAKD —Leo R. McAIoon. '27. 260 Pawtucliet Ave.. Pawtucket, R. L. President: John F. Mc-Kieman. '34, 206 Lockwood Ave. Providence. 
R. I.. Secretary. 
The 'J<lotre "Da me cA lumnus 
ROCHESTER 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER— James Jones. *22, 319 EUwansrer and Barry Bids., President: Frank Norton. '32, 80 Beclcwith Terrace. Secretary. 
January 2, 1935. 

One thing about the holidays,— they did provide news, mirth, and merriment. President JIMMIE JONES '22 presided at the beer party given the club by the Cataract Brewery. I say "presided" advisedly because the man that has jurisdic­tion at a stag party is the bar tender. 
At the outset, we were met by ED STEIN, ex-'25, who is manager of the brewei-y. Need I say that we were royally entertained? EDWARD GRETCHEN '23 put in an early appearance. He is now connected with the Home Owners' Loan Cor­poration which furnishes bright hope foi- our marrying alumni. WALT SWEENEY, '31, paid his respects for the fii-st time in several moons. WALT SCHOLAND '30, announces a son named Thomas F. Scholand. JOE TIERNEY '21 prowded the high spot of the evening bj' joining us with the announcement that he had just come from the hospital where the Blessed Event was a son, to be named Terence. JOE FLYNN '16, reports all well and healthy. 
TOM ASHE '31, told me he'd appreciate the oiler of a job from someone in Chicago. Midwest editors, please copy. GERALD ASHE '22 is now located in Buffalo working for Merchants'" Dispatch, Incorporated and his address is c-o BuiTalo Ath­letic Club. FRANK HARGROVE, ex-'32, at the last report, was helping his Uncle Sam get the mail straight­ened out. DICK TOBIN '34 is work­ing for Beechnut Packing Company in the chemical laboratories. Both TOM '14 and JOE '13 O'CONNOR put in an appearance. Tom still guides the destinies of the Catholic Courier. VIN SULLIVAN '31 to use his own words, is "going to make Binghamton and Elmira Boscul Coffee conscious, working for the Scull Coffee people. JACK FLEM­ING '18 likemse attended. WARD SCHLOTZER '16, is the same old Ward and the center of the reminis­cing crowd. 
The undergraduates held the Chris-mas Dance the 27th at the Sagamore to the music of Johnny Murdock. It was very well attended and certainly a happy lot of people. I saw GER­ARD FARRELL, '34, there. Gerry is to be congratulated for the attemt­ed rescue of a drowning man by jumping into the Genesee River after him when the temperature was 10 degrees above zero. Luckily he suff­ered only a severe cold- BERNIE HENNESSY '34 is connected with Whitmore, Rauber & Vicinus, a con­struction firm here. WALTER MUR­
Matdi,1919 

PHY '31, is ti-ying to stifle the in­fonnation that he is a buck school mam imparting fragmentary know­ledge to school children. Walt's room was headquarters at the dance. LEON LYNCH is located in Utica temporarily. NORB BAGLIN '19 offered me some very wise pre-legal advice at the dance, thank you. JACK McGEE '30 is still with the Department of Internal Revenue at Warsaw, N. Y. 
I had a card from FRANK CON­BOY '32. I rather think he has lean­ings toward a jockey's career. MAL­COM "RED" McVEAN '31 helps old Father Rochester keep books. JOHN­NY DORSCHEL '31 is now connect­ed with Samson United and doing well. JIM McGRATH '33 is now a salesman for Phillip Morris. WIL­BUR SHEEHAN, '33, does the selling at the Rochester Gas and Electric. PETER CONNELLY '33, graduates in June from Albany Law School. RAY GUPPY OS '12, el '25, is still \vith the New York Life Insurance Company. 
I guess that just about cleans up 
all the news, Jim. Everyone here 
appreciates the .-llicmni Directories 
you sent out but they would like to 
know what the "os" and "el" after 
some of the names mean. We hope 
you • will soon be through here on 
your annual trip East. Please give 
us advance information so that we 
can plan on it. 
FRANK NORTON 

The high spot of the Club's activi­ties this month was, of course, the visit paid us by ELMER LAYDEN. He arrived February 7 to spend a very busy day. We had a dinner in the evening at the University Club that was well attended, the banquet hall being filled. Needless to say his talk to us was well received and in­spired even more confidence than we already have in the future. All in all, it was a real happy event, an im­promtu get-together before a bigger in event later in the evening when ELMER was the head-liner at a smoker put on by Saint Margaret Mary's Church. It was a treat to see such old-timers as ED KRAMER 
•20, MARK EILERS, '19, TOM O'CONNOR, '14, PAUL DE PAOLIS '24 and RAY MEAD '26. 
JOHN STEWART announces a daughter bom on Christmas Day last, named Noel. This is another ticket for ART HALEY to worry about. 
JACK KINSELLA, '34, is now connected with the Kee Lox Manu­facturing Company in the South American division of the office. 
GEORGE AEMBRUSTER, ex-'33, of Toledo and Detroit, is located here with the Hearst Newspapers. 
Belated though it is, I wish to give March, 1935 
full details of JOE GERAGHTY'S ('28) wedding which took place on June 19,19S4. It created quite a fur­ore in what is BOW the GERAGHTY circle when I omitted the young lady's name in a previous announcement. Well, here goes—her name is Dorothy Whalen and they were married at Saint Monica's Church. There, now I can sleep better. 
We hope to have a real Notre Dame night on March -1, Rockne's birthday, along \vith the other clubs around the country. ELMER LAY­DEN and ART HALEY both prom­ised to send us movies of the team in action and illustrating how all the touchdowns (with the exception of those by Te.xas and Pitt) were made. 
As for myself, I'm doing a little teaching on the side at the Rochester Branch of Niagara University. 
That's all for this month's report to the stockholders. Best regards, FRANK NORTON, '32. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Srarellf. '27. 1418 EiBhth St. Rockford. HI.. President: Fran­cis W. Rowland. "25. 902 N. Main St. Rock­ford, III.. Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN ANTONIO— William V. Diclmann. Jr.. •25. lOT Thdma Drive. President: Edward G. Conroy. '30. 204 E. Craic PI.. Secretary. 
The N. D. bunch down here in San Antonio followed the fortunes of our football team closely and with the traditional spirit. Whenever, during the past season, the team's battles on the gridiron were broadcast the gang got together at some member's home to hear the reports. The Pitt-
N.D. game was not broadcast by any of the local stations, so we "pitched" in and got the game via Western Union. 
We have our weekly luncheons on Thursdays. Our membership is not large, but what it lacks in numbers it makes up in enthusiasm. We are as yet unable to make a big impres­sion or cut a wide swath in the life of our city, but give us a little time and things can be done. 
-\s you no doubt know another San Antonio boy is now enjoying the benefits of the Rowley scholarship. It is sad to think that in the short time of eight years the entire Rowley family with the exception of the daughter, has departed this life. Mr. Rowley certainly was a fine, true Catholic gentleman. 
We had the god foi-tune to listen in on the football banquet the other evening. It certainly was a treat. 
Some time ago I received notice from the Cone's studio of this city 
The 'Notre "Dame cAlumnas 
to have my picture taken. They claim to have been appointed by the University to do this. They did not give' any reason and I did not take time to inqivre. Is there anything to it? If there is, let me know when you have time to reply. 
Modest as I am, and no fooling, I impart the following information. Last September yours truly was elect­ed president of the Notre Dame Club of San Antonio or of Southwest Texas. ED. G. CONROY, class of '30, was made Secretary-Treasurer, and JOHN A. BITTER, JR., class of '32, was elected Vice-president. We have tried to keep the boys inter­ested. 
Things seem to be getting better here. The year 1934 saw a vast im­provement in business conditions. The building material business, which provides me with bread and butter, and has done so for my family since 1889, seems to be coming back into its own after four lean years. Per­sonally I would rather see a gradual improvement than a sudden, over­whelming spurt. 
Next June ten years will have passed since you and I were gradu­ated from Notre Dame. If I am cor­rect the class of 1925 will hold its second reunion next Commencement. Since I missed the first reunion in 1930, I am going to make every ef­fort to be at the one this year. I am of the opinion that the campus will be a revelation to me. 
Enough of this, until next time. With the best wishes of the Notre Dame club of our fair Alamo' city, and with kindest personal regards, I am, 
WILLIAM V. DIELMAN, JR. 

NOTRE DAME CLDB OF SIOUX CrrY— Vincent F. Harrineton, '25, Continental Mortgage Co.. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SPRINGFIELD— Frank Zimmerman. '26, 931 N. Rutledffe Ave., President: Robert Graham. '26, 1537 
S. Douelas Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS—Rob­ert Hellruns. '30. 306 N. Grand Blvd.. Presi­dent: David J. Ridley, Jr.. '30. 107 Avun­dell PI.. Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—William Sheehan. '25, 302 N. Main St , South Bend. Ind., President: Francis Jones, '29, 802 I.O.OJ . Bide.. South Bend. Ind.. Secretary. 
Following is a brief resume of the activities of the Notre Dame St. Jos­eph Valley jUumni since our last in­ventory to you. 
The Club has been fairly active, particularly so with the football ban­quet which was held on January 15. GILES CAIN, the general chairman, and his efiicient committee saw to it that the arrangements were made without fault, bias or prejudice. Not to be outdone by 'Will Kogers, BILL SHEEELAN appeared without a tux­edo, thereby causing great chagrin to AL McGANN and WALTER CLEMENTS. Many members of the Club claimed that appearing without a tux was too much of a come-down from the spectacular appearance made by last year's president, PAUL 
M. BUTLER, who dazzled the ban­queteers by bedecking himself in a white tux vest 
On February 4 the Club has a joint dinner meeting with the Notre Dame Villagers, at which time the members were held spellbound by speeches from yourself and LOUIS BRUGGNER. It was agreed between the Clubs that the Alumni will aid the Villagers in the promotion of a banquet in honor of the basketball team, to be held some time in March. A committee, consisting of William 
(Notux) Sheehan, HERB (Two-on­
the-Fifty-Yard-Line) JONES, FRANK (Bantam Ball Bearing) DONOVAN, LOUIS (Professor) BUCKLEY and your Secretary, was appointed by the Honorable William (Notux) Sheehan, to aid, advise and abet the said Villager's committee. 
The ofiicers of the Club have planned many activities, among which will be the following: A general busi­ness meeting to be held some time in March; a dance to be held some time in May; and a golf tournament to be held some time late in the spring. It has been planned, also, to choose some meeting place to hold weekly luncheons for members . of the Club, the time, the place and the details to be arranged at the meet­ing to be held in March. 
The members enjoyed the picture book that you sent out last month, under the guise of an ALUMNUS, and we wish to state that it was a boon to us who cannot read. 
Further affiant sayeth not. FRANCIS JONES, Secretary. 


SYRACUSE and CENTRAL NEW YORK 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK —W. Ed. Byrne. '26. Travelers Insurance Co., Syracuse, N.Y„ President: Ward L. Leahy. '26. 307 Forest Hill Drive. Syracuse. N. Y., Secretary. 
The fact that ELMER LA"yDEN and ART HALEY stopped over in Syracuse for a lunch on February 7., will provide the major news item concerning the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse and Central New York this month. The luncheon was held at the Syracuse Hotel—a special parlor being reserved for the occasion—and among the club members attending were GEORGE KELLEY, BILL SULLIVAN, JIM HUXFORD, LEO 
168 
KELLEY, WARD LEAHY, FATH­EE JOE TOOMEY, LEO HEE­BEET, TOM DELANEY, PEANK CASHIER, ED. BYRNE, DUKE KINNEY, JAKE ECKEL, VINC BEOWN and LES LOVIEE from Eome. 
The luncheon was a complete suc­cess from every angle, except that the local Winchells and Husings usurped too much of the limited time of Messrs Layden and Haley. How­ever, between interviews the club managed to learn many of the new^er developments at N.D. such as the golf course, 1935 football prospects, etc. 
Although Universal N.D. night is still almost two months away tenta­tive plans for the celebration are al­ready under advisement and we are hoping to have a get together of real merit. 
During the past two weeks I have heai-d many favorable comments about the recent issue of the N. D. ALU.MNUS and the general impress­ion is that this particular issue should prove of advertising value in addition to the sentiment value to former students. 
Best regards. WARD LEAHY. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO— 
C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Mdmore St., Presi­dent: Fred J. Wasner, '29. 152 Sycamore St, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLITB OF TOLEDO—Fred A. Spreneer. '30. 3129 Kimball Ave.. President: Joseph L. WeUi, '31. 717 Starr Ave.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift, '20, Kahl Bldg.. Daven­port. Iowa. President: Arthur L. Himliert. 
•32. 527 39th SL, Rocit Island, HI., Secre­tary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES —Joseph Carey, "32, 20 Roosevelt Ave., En­dicott. N. y.. President; Regis McNamara. 
•33, 13 Crandall St., Binshamton, N. Y.. Secretary. 

TWIN CITIES TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Eueene A. O'Brien, '28, 15 S. Fifth St.. Minneapolis, Minn., Prerfdent: John D. Yel­land. '30, 3221 Holmes Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn.. Secretary. 
The Twin Cities-Notre Dame Club had another of its successful Christ­mas Balls and as a result the financial condition of the Club is more sound than ever. Had it not been nineteen below zero the night of the party I am sure that all attendance records would have been broken. 
It was grand to have ELMER LAY­DEN, ART HALEY and GEORGE KEOGAN here with the basketball team when they played Minnesota in January. At a luncheon arranged by President EUGENE O'BRIEN, there were present, besides the above mentioned, Frank McCormick, direc­tor of athletics at the University of Minnesota, sport writers from the various Twin Cities newspapers and 
The f^o tre 'Dame cAlumnus 
membei^s of the club and their friends. Elmer Layden gave a fine talk in wliich he explained the ath­letic situation at Notre Dame, its strict eligibility rules and his own ideas on the national football rules. -Alter the luncheon the -Army vs. Noti-e Dame football pictures were shown and Layden pointed out some of the highlights of the game. The Minnesota fans, as well as the club members are hoping that Minnesota and Notre Dame will resume football relations in the near future. How­ever rumor has it that there mil be nothing definite until 1937. 
Another important visitor to Min­neapolis last week was JACK CHEV­IGNY, coach at Texas University. Jack was in town to line up a game with Minnesota to be played at Min­neapolis, November 14, 1936, with the possibility that Minnesota •will go to Austin, Texas in 1937. It looks quite definite that this game will be played in 1936. Jack was a very busy man while in town and we weren't able to entertain him as we would have liked to. However, the writer had a very pleasant dinner hour with Jack and Bemie Bierman, coach at Minnesota, and got a good deal of football information which he passed along to the boys. 
There isn't much news locally, Jim. However, there have been a few changes in the membership of the club. TOM DUNN has been trans­ferred to Milwaukee and TOM Mc-MAHON and his family have moved to Cincinnati. They were two good boys and we were sorry to lose them but it meant a promotion for both of them. JERRY McKAY was up from Madison for our partj- at Christmas time. 
The club is going to have elections 

at their next meeting and I will prob­
ably have more news at that time. 
JOHN D. YELLAND, 
Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Raymond 
R. Brady. '24, 206 Kcams Bids., Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Harbecke, "19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA. NEW YORK- Dr. John F. Kelley. '22, Peoples' Gas and Electric Bldfr., President; Joseph 
W. Fnllem, "31, 1621 Neilson St., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer, '2S, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind.. President; Peter Vogt. Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY— John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave.. President; James M. Monashan, '27. 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASH­INGTON — Joseph Sinnott, '08. 1931 R Lynn St., Seattle, President; E. Morris Starrett, '21, 801 Washinston St.. Port Townsend. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, W. VA.—^Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citizens-Peo­ples Trust Co., Wheelins, President; Georse Sareus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGSTOWN— 
John Moran. '29. 1348 Quinn. President; 
Charles Cushwa. '31. 463 Madera Ave.. 
Secretary. 
March, 1935 


BiBLIOGRAPHY 

THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAUE Sister M. Frederick. C.S.a. '24. St Harr*! College. Notre Dame. President; Miss Ron Steffaniak. '26. 161 Walnut St.. Goldwater. Michigan, Secretaty. 
Members of the Women's Club of the Alumni Association have very generously contributed the following bibliography. Space limitations, be­cause the February ALUMNUS was in the nature of a picture booklet preclude the use of book reviews in the present issue. 
By Sister M. Joseph, O.S.U. 

Marvels of Grace — Rev. Victor Manley, S.S. Translated by Rev. Al­bert D. Talbot, S.S. Milwaukee, 1934. $1.00. 
By Sister Mary Roberta, S.S.N.D. 

The Pope from the Ghetto—Gert­rude Von le Fort. Translated by Con­rad Bonacina. N. Y., Macmillan, 1934. ?2.50. 
Laughing Their Way: Woman's Humor in America—Martha Bensley Bruere and Mary Ritter Beard. N.Y., Macmillan, 1934. $4.00. 
Peter, Commander-in-Chief, An Heroic Record of the First Christian .\rmy and Its Catholic Conquests— Leo Gregory Fink. N. Y., The Paulist Press, 1930. $1.80. 
Don John of Austria—Margaret Yeo. N. Y., Sheed and Ward, 1934. $2.50. 
The Catholic Church in Action— Michael Williams. N. Y., Macmillan, 1934. $2.00. 
Recollections of Seventy Years— William Cardinal O'Connell. N. Y., Houghton Mifflin, 1934. $3.50. 
By Sister M. Vivia, O.S.B. 

Saga of the Saints—Sigrud Undset. New York, Longmans, Green and Co., 1934. $2.50. 
Thomas Moore—Christopher HoUis. Bruce Publishing Company, Milwau­kee, 1934. $2.25. 
By Sister Joan of Arc, O.S.F. 

The Blessed Friend of Youth—Neil Boyton, SX Foreword by the Honor­able Alfred E. Smith. The Macmillan Company. $1.00 Revised edition, Oc­tober, 1934. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Ann Patricia Collins and HUGH F. BLUNT, '24, were married on Feb. 9, in Brookline, Mass., by Rev. Hugh F. Blunt, LL.D., '20. They visited Notre Dame on Feb. 13. 
Miss Margot Mueller and EDW. J. MANDEVILLE, '26, were married on Nov. 15 in the Church of Our Lady Help of Christians, Chicago. RAY MULLIGAN, '28, was best man. 
Miss Bemice Alice Wolfe was mar­ried to SAMUEL E. KEHOE, '27, on Feb. 17, in Houston, Texas. 
Mrs. Juanita Bowman and AR­THUR W. MILLER, '28, were mar­ried Feb. 13, in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Miss Annie Lee Woodfin was mar­ried to JOSEPH J. HEBERT, '28, on Jan. IC, at St. .-Vnthony's Church, Beaumont, Texas. 
Miss Juanita Metz, South Bend, Indiana, and THOMAS M. McNICH-OLAS, '29, were married Feb. 21, at SS. Philip and James Church, Balti­more, Maryland. 
Miss Margaret Louis Dodson and ALBION M. GRIFFIN, '29, were married Jan. 12, in Bethlehem, Pa. 
Miss Eva May Ward was married to EDWARD T. MCCARTHY, '29, on Feb. 14, at St. Mary's Church, Ukiah, Calif. 
Miss Ramona Gibbons Hayes and JOHN F. HEALY, '30, were married on Jan. 2, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. EDWARD HALLORAN, '30, served as best man. 
Miss Jane SejTnour was married to DANIEL A. WELCHONS, '30, on Jan. 12, at St. Teresa's Church, Hutchison, Kansas. FRED ZIMMER­MAN, '30, served as best man. 
Miss Loretta Kramer and CHAS. 
E. ROHR, '30, were married in Jan­uary, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Ruth Hough and GEORGE FITCH, '29, were married in Janu­ary, in Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Miss Eileen HefFernan and GEO. 
A. HEINEMAN, '31, were married at Washington, Indiana, last Oct. 5. 
Miss Elsie Rose Gobel and FRANK 
T. FLYNN, Jr., '31, were married Dec. 29, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Dwyer and COLMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY, '32, were married on Jan. 19, at St. Ber­nard's Church, \Miite Plains, New York. 
Miss Mary Louis Karrer and F. 
GR.A.NGER WEIL, '33, were married on Feb. 2, in Port Huron, Michigan. 
Miss Dorothy Plotz was married to FRED BECKLENBERG, Jr., '33, on Feb. 2, at St. Ignatius Church, Chi­cago, Illinois. 
Miss Lucy A. Beasley and E. TIGHE WOODS, '33, were married Jan. 12, in Chicago, Illinois. 
Miss Ruth Schuell and PAUL J. MARTERSTECK, '34, were married Jan. 1, at St. Cecelia's Church, Peoria, Illinois. 
Miss Julia Chizar and VICTOR ASTONE, '34, were married Feb. 23, in South Bend, Indiana. 
Miss Elizabeth Mary Clark and EDMUND F. FITZMAURICE, '34, were married on Feb. 16, at Church of the Annunciation, Florence, Mass. 

ENGAGEMENTS 
Announcements have been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Kathleen Mulqucen, Jamaica, 
L. I., N. Y., and ROBERT A. HAM­ILTON, '28. 
Miss Marion Geddes, Chicago, 111., and DONALD E. O'TOOLE, '31. 
Miss Eileen Marv Lee, New York Citv, and THOMAS A. ROSSIE, ex­'32. 
Miss Mary Wagner, South Bend, Ind., and CHARLES CASHMAN, '34. 
Miss Louis Schwartzel, New Al­banv, Ind. and RAYMOND PPEIF­FER, '32. 
Miss Mary E. Schoonover, South Bend, Ind., and ROBERT L. HAM­ILTON, '34. 

BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. E. F. O'TOOLE, '25, announce the arrival of a daughter, Kathleen .A.nn on Feb. 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. HARRY M. BIED­KA, '27, announce the birth of a son, Jerome Michael, on Jan. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT A. PER­SYN, '27, are the parents of a son, born Dec. 14, 1934. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN L. RYAN, '27, are the parents of a son, William Michael, bom Dec. 30, 1934. This is the third boy in the Ryan family, and BOB STEPHAN, '27, was appointed godfather. 
The first 1935 baby to arrive in Sandusky, Ohio, was Rober t H. 
Scimurr, son of Mr. and Mrs. AL SCHNURR, Jr., '28. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALOIS J. WELZEN­BACH, '30, announce the arrival of a son, Alois J., 11, on Jan. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH PETER RUPPE, '30, announce the arrival of a son, Joseph Peter, HI, on Feb. 12. 

DEATHS 
A brief notice from Louisville, Ky., tells of the death there early in Feb­ruary of one of the most interested and most loyal members of the Alum­ni Association, FRANCIS X. WALL, who received his LL.B. in 1880. Mr. Wall had been associated with the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. In 1930, with Dr. J. B. Berteling and the late Sam Perley, both of South Bend, Mr. Wall celebrated on the campus the fiftieth anniversary of his gradu­ation from Notre Dame. He was the oldest member of the Notre Dame club of Kentucky and brother-in-law of the late F. E. Kuhn, '83, Nash­ville. 
JOHN D0.4JIN, '29, promment as a football player during several of Rock's last years, dropped dead on Feb. 8, while exercising in the gym­nasium of the Y.M.C.A. in Omaha. The coroner's investigation revealed that he had died of "athlete's heart." He had just finished some strenuous rope-jumping when the end came. 
John is survived by his mother, Mrs. Anna J. Doam of the Rome ho­tel, Omaha. He had carried on his law practice in the Electric Building of the same city. 
MICHAEL 0. HANLEY, former sheriff of St. Joseph County, Indiana, a student at Notre Dame in 1897, died in South Bend on Jan. 2. 
JOHN K. STACK, Jr., e.x. '02, aud­itor general of the state of Michigan, died in Lansing on Jan. 18 after a brief illness with pneumonia. His wife followed him in death a week later. Seven children survive them. 
Elected auditor general of the state of Michigan in 1932, Mr. Stack was a candidate for the Democratic gniher­natorial nomination last Fall. He was defeated but won renomination for the auditor generalship in the ensuing Democratic state convention and was one of the two Democrats elected on the state ticket in November. 
His election, by a 25,000 majority, in the face of Michigan's swing back to its traditional Republicanism, al­ready had earned him considerable support for the governorship two years hence. 
A note on a returned ALUMNUS en­velope makes known the death of EUGENE J. O'CONNOR, LL.B., '04, of Oelwein, Iowa. 
Another victim of pneumonia was LEO A. MAHONEY, C.E., '22, of South Bend, chief engineer for the Edwards' Iron Works. He died on Feb. 6 leaving his wife and five chil­dren and innumerable friends to mourn him. A large group of local alumni honored his memory at his fimeral in South Bend on Feb. 9. 
Always ardently loyal to Notre Dame and unceasing in his eiforts to promote her interests, Leo was one of the most active members of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley and for a year served as a director of the club. 
PERSONALS 

Before 1880 
BEFORE 1880 — Hon Thomas F. GallaEher, Fltchburs. Mass. 
1880-85—Prof. Robert M. Anderson, Cirdcvillc. Ohio. 
188S—Michad O. Bums. S. Second St., 
Hamilton. Ohio. 

1888—John L. Heineman, Connersville. Ind. 
1889—P. E. Burke. 201 Camp St, New Or­leans, Louisiana 
1690-93—Louis P. Ohutc. 7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota 
1894—Hugh A. O'Donnell. 1 W. 67th St. New York City. 
1896—Eustace Cullinan. Sr., 860 Phelan Bids:., San Francisco, Calif. 
1896—William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave.. Michisan City, Indiana 
1897—^Rev. John A. MacKamanu St- Joseph's Sanitarium, Mt. Qemcns. Michigan. 
1898—^William C. Kegier, 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1899—Dr. Joseph F, Duane. ^IS Jefferson Bldff., Peoria, Illinois. 
1900—John W. EBEcman, Old First Bank Blldg., Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
1901—Joseph J- Sullivan, 1300. 139 N. Clark St,. Cbicaso, HI. 
1902—C. a Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, CSiicaeo, Illinois. 
1903—Francis P. Burke. 901 Trust Company Bldff., Milwaukee. Wisconsin. 
1904—Robert Proctor. Moneer Bids.. Elkhart. Indiana. 
1905—Daniel J. O'Connor. 10 S. LaSalle St.. Chicaso, Illinois. 
1906—Thomas A. Lally. 811-13 Paulsen Bide., Spokane, Washinston. 
1908 
1908—Frank X. Cull. Bulkley BIdg.. Qeveland, Ohio. 
JIM FLAHERTY and WALTER DUNCAN, '12, were two nearby res­idents who attended the football ban­quet at St. Bede Academy, Peru, Illi­nois, on February 18, and heard the chief verbal fare of the evening as delivered bv Assistant Coach BO­LAND. 
1909 
1909—E. P. Cleary, Xotre Dame, Indiana. 
ALBERT T. MERTES can be reached at the Krebs Pigment & Color Corporation, Newport, Dela­ware, according to information re­layed to the Alumni Office by HAR­RY MILLER, '10, who met him early this year. 
ISIO—Rev. M. L. Morisrty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland. Ohio. 
1911 
1911—Fred L. Steers. 1635 First National Bk. Bids., Chicago, Illinois. 
From Casper, W"yoming to the Reg­istrar recently came a message from REV. JOHN H. MULLEN, recom­mending a prospective student. Fath­er Mullen's address is 218 East Sev­enth Street, Casper. 
1912—B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania. 
1913—James R. Devitt 921 Engineers Bide, Cleveland* Ohio. 
1914—Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of America Bldg., Anaheim. Calif. 
1915—James B. Sanfoid. 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park. Illitlois. 
1916—Timothy P. Galvin. 708 First Trust Bids., Hammond, Indiana. 
1917 

1917—Edward J. McOsker. 104 S. Union St.. Elgin, miQois. 
JIMMY PHELAN, with Will Rog­ers, represented the West Coast at the Football Banquet in January and met many of his old friends on the campus. He also renewed acqaint^ ances with NOBLE KIZER and the Purdue outfit. 

1918—John A. Lemmer, 1110-8th Ave.. S.. E»­canaba, Michigan. 
1919—Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St.. Gary, Indiana. 

1920—Leo B. Ward, 1912 Black Bldg., Los Angeles. California. 
1921 
1921—Alden J. Cusick. 1 Park Ave., New York City. 
CALLIX MILLER, of South Bend, was elected president of the Indiana Societj' of -Architects at a recent meeting in Indianapolis. Previously he had served the Society as first and as second vice-president. Callix' latest accomplishment in a professional way is the design for a new monastery in the territory between LaPorte and Gary, Indiana. 
The grapevine occasionally bringrs to the Assistant Alumni Secretary some slight word of a fellow native of LaSalle, Illinois, GERRY HOAR. The former track star is a laundry executive in Chicago, residing at 1453 East 86th Street. His family and a big job keep him as busy as he used to be at Notre Dame. 
1922 
1922—Gerald Ashe, BuSalo Athletic Club. Buf­
falo, N. Y. 
Last month we promised to have J-H-CK HIGGINS act as guest con­ductor of this issue, but things do happen occasionally to upset the old popcorn wagon. This is the season for holdouts. Of course, the ball play­ers are holding out for higher salar­ies etc., but Jack is not a ball player and so our only explanation is that he is holding out for more and better news. We can aiford to bide our time. 
Some time ago, CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL wrote a letter to your secretary which was plainly addressed and despite the cleverness of Jim Jj'arley's mail forces which we read about in Ripley's 'Believe it or Nof section wherein letters marked with symbols of hammers, chisels, and saws and so forth are always deliv­ered to the proper party, Cliarlie's letter was returned to Portland un­claimed and then dispatched again to yours truly. Charlie writes: 
"1 am still in the machine shop busmess and things are looking bet­ter than they have in a long time. Much of our competition has fallen by the wayside the past few years, and with new work looming on the horizon we should be fairly busy for the coming year. I have been pretty much out of touch with things Notre Dame, and am anxious to know more about what some of the Old Comer are doing; your ALUMNUS notes are rather inadequate as I suppose the rest of the fellows are about as pro­lific with their writing as I am. As you may recall I used to loudly pro­claim the virtues of this beautiful country, and I don't mind saying I am just as ardent a supporter as ever. What has become of CLETE LYNCH, JOE FARLEY, WALTER STUHLDREHER, HIC K CARM­ODY, JOHN PAUL CULLEN, JOHN RAHE, WOOF DWYER, etc?" 
Hirshy is still at the old stand— Monarch Forge & Machine Works, 690 York Street, Portland, Oregon. 
RAY KEARNS was elected prose­cuting attorney of the 43rd Judicial Circuit of Indiana last fall. Ray as­sumed office on Jan. 1. His head­quarters are in Terre Haute. We con­gratulate the new prosecutor and have drawn from him the following: 
"As you know, I was elected to the ofiice of prosecuting attorney last November, and I assumed the office on January 1, and I expect to be very busy for the next couple years, how­ever, if I have the time, I will at­tempt to make class reunion this ne.xt June, that is if there is one sched­uled, if not, I will attempt to make the trip anyway. 
Very seldom do I ever see any of the fellows with whom we went to March. 1935 

Notre Dame, but I understand CLETE LYNC H still has Terre Haute on his itinerary. However, I have not had the pleasure of seeing him for two years or more. I want you to know that I enjoy reading your news items in the ALUMNUS, which helps me keep in contact ^vith some of our former fellow students. In the event that you have some spare time in the future, I will appreciate hearing from you and getting a more detailed account of your actions and also those of some of our friends. I have heard that JIMMY JONES is doing very well and is the father of is it two, three or more children?" 
To hear Jimmy talk about those children, you would think he had quintuplets. 
A most welcome letter was received from JOHN PAUL CULLEN who was seriously injured in an automo­bile accident in New Jersey last Nov­ember. As stated in last month's issue J. P. is at his home in Janes­ville. Wis. He expects to be back in the harness in about three more weeks. 
What ever happened to that old nutmeg — CY GAFFNEY of New Britain, Conn.? 
When you are listening to orches­tras on the radio these nights, wouldn't you like to hear them an­nounce HARRY DENNY or The Big Six for an orchestra rendition of 'The Wabash Blues,' 'Don't Send Me Pos­ies,' or BU D H.A.NLON'S 'Fire of Fiftj' Eight?' 
Speaking of music and musicians, we must not forget a violin artist who was also a first class acrobat. I refer to one PERCY CONNOLLY who would visit his friends on the third floor of Corby, flitting from window sill to window sill lightly bur­dened with his violin, music, chair, and a few apples. Percy is now a private detective. 
KID ASHE. 

AARO N HUEGENARD sends a note to controvert an item in the January ALUMNUS — that he is a member of the N. D, law faculty. He was for several years—up to 1931— a special lecturer in law but has not been officially connected on the cam­pus since that time. 
• 

1923 
1923—Paul Castncr. While Motor Company. Oevcland, Ohio. 
The Portland Oregonian brought the news that DUKE HODLER had been appointed deputy district at­torney out thar. Says the Oregonian: "Albert M. Hodler, e.x-halfback on the Oregon State College football team, Freshman football coach at Notre Dame under Knute Rockne when the "four horsemen" were on the freshman squad, and a graduate 
The 'Notie 1)a, c/tlui 
of Notre Dame law school, is another 
of the appointees. He coached the 
Mare Island football team for three 
years after graduation and later 
practiced law in Portland and Bums. 
"He was attorney on one side or 

another of several important criminal 
cases in Bums, and was attorney for 
lumber companies and a receiver for 
a bank. For the past year he has 
been in Portland. He is a member of 
the American Legion." 
In the Philippines, filling a chap­laincy in the United States Army, is F.A.THER JOHN DUFFY. 
Two military enthusiasts, JOH N FLYNN, of Cleveland and BO B RIORDAN, '24, the Registrar, have recently been in correspondence with one another. John is an officer in the 107th Cavalry of the Ohio National Guard (PIERCE O'CONNOR, '27, is a member of the same outfit) as well as officer in the U. S. Reserve Cav­alry. Bob takes care of the U. S. Field Artillery in the South Bend sector. 
1924 
1924—James F. Hayes. Fifth .\venue Ass'n., New York City. 
AL BOEHM, late of Bulfalo, New York, but now of Chicago, greeted the Alumni Office force on Jan. 30. Al is with the same company in Chicago, the Worthington Pump and Machin­ery Corporation. 
FATHER DO N G-\LLAGHER, now reigning in Gouvemeur, New York, visited on the campus on Feb. 7 with his classmate of Notre Dame and Roman days, FATHER TOM BRENNAN. The former Senior pres­ident and popular campus figure is at present administrator of a parish in Gouvemeur. 
JIM HURLEY, one of La Salle, Illinois' leading barristers and one of its most recent husbands, was at St. Bede Academy, on Febmary 18, to hear JOE BOLAND tell 'em what is what at a football banquet. Jim is one of the Alumni Office's best aids in the prospective student program. 
FR.AJJK McGRATH has been elect­ed to the District Court of Omaha, one of the most responsible positions of its kind in Nebraska. 
• 1925 
1925—John W. Scallan. Pullman Co.. 79 E. .Adams St., Chicaso. HI. 
FRANK MURRAY is the new manager of the Acme Fast Freight in Toledo having been transferred from the post of assistant manager for the same company in St. Louis. 
It is now RIGHT REV. MON­SIGNOR PETE R GUILDAY. The distinguished scholar, head of the De­partment of American Church His­tory in the Catholic University, re­ceived the degree of Doctor of Laws at the Notre Dame Commencement in 1925.. The monsignorship was con­ferred upon him, as was Notre Dame's degree, in recognition of his outstand­ing work in the field of Church his­tory. 
BOB HOWLAND, of St. Louis, as­sistant advertising manager of the Missouri Pacific Lines, was a welcome visitor on the campus on Jan. 14. Bob found time to get connected with DR. COONEY, JOE CASASANTA, the Athletic Office staif and the Alumni Office toilers. 
GEORGE SCHWARZ has recently had his credits transferred in order to do graduate work at Columbia University. He's living, according to Registrar Riordan, at the Montague Hotel, Brooklyn. 
1926 
1926—Dr. Gerald W. Hayes. 96 N. Walnut St. East Oran^, N. J. 
RAY SOBATSKI has resigned his position with the DuPont company, CarroUville, Wisconsin, and is now doing research work at Penn State College. 
RAY McGRATH, one of the music masters with the well remembered Denny gang (and how strange it is to the old men of '26 to hear a pres­ent student-say! "Harry Denny's Orchestra! What was that?") is an assistant state's attorney in Omaha. His erstwhile pal and fellow Euro­pean traveler, PROFESSOR N. ALOYSIUS ENGELS, a martinet of the English faculty, is one of South Bend's leading furniture makers and repairers. In his few spare moments he also 'umps a nasty trombone in Professor Seidel's Notre Dame Sym­phony Orchestra, pounds out Engelian verse and prose for America, The Ave Maria, the Commonweal and other publications and trains two sons, John and David, in the ways of trombones and Pete. With his wife, Eleanor Perry Engels, who is also a prominent figure in the writing world, and the aforementioned two off­spring, he lives in the Weir home on Angela Boulevard just across from the University golf course. (Two more chairs repaired for this blow, Engels.) 
STEVE PIETROWICZ, associated with the Educational Bureau of the Chicago Tribune, still has the dirt on Attorney RONAN and vice versa. 
FRANK DEITLE, of Benton Har­bor, is taking an active part in the activities of the new and enthusiastic Notre Dame Club of Berrien County, Michigan. 
CLAUDE CARSON is one of the leading citizens and hotel owners of Bremen, Indiana, and was one of the welcoming committee when the RIORDAN-ARMSTRONG sound unit recently invaded the Kiwanis Club of that heretofore peaceful community. 
Further down in Indiana, and a bit to the westward, BUD BARR takes care of the affairs of Chalmers. The CONLIN influence has left its mark in that Bud is gray of hair, but other­wise he is the same athletic iignre that did the dashes a few years ago. Being near at hand Bud is at familiar attendant at many campus events. 
JOHN FRANCIS O'DONNELL had, at last reports — and this limit­ing phrase is essential in O'Donnell's case, — returned to become the bard of Maysville, Kentucky. The local press was claiming his services — at last reports. His letters reveal the same old John who was fond of writ­ing, Toledo and sleeping. 
Everyone knows, of course, that ED FALLON and DOC GELSON, as president and secretary respectively, are doing a great job of running the Notre Dame Club of New York City. 
And in the same neighborhood WINK WINGERTER and ED HAR­GAN are doing just as fine work in operating the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey. 
TOM FERGUSON functions with the greatest of efficiency in heading the Notre Dame Club of the Con­necticut Valley and HOGAN MOR­RISSEY is one of the world's best as president of the Cincinnati Club, 
VIC LEMMER puts his Glee Club experience to good use in running the Notre Dame Club of the Gogebic Range (there's a name for you, pal!) and FRANK ZIMMERMAN, presi­dent, and BOB GRAHAM, secretarj-, have served ideally in getting the new club in Springfield into splendid running order. 
EDDIE BYRNE is a dandy presi­dent and WARD LEAHY is an active and co-operative secretary in the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse and Central New York. 
Did somebody remark that the '26 men aren't doing their share in lead­ing the local clubs to better things? 
But what of JOHN GALLAGHER, who when the grapevine last re­ported, was a Morris Plan Bank ex­ecutive in Cleveland — and married? And is BEN BOURNE still an engi­neer? And is AL MEYER wTiting or singing or both? What happened to JOHN LENIHAN, the original basso profundo of Professor Casasanta's troupe? And is NORB KAVANAUGH still a philosopher de luxe? CHAR­LIE JIARGUET was up for Com­mencement last June but the Alumni Office has no address for JIM Mc-QUAIN. The GERRY McDERMOTT doings are reported through his sis­ter-in-law in South Bend, but there is never a word from DUCKY MIL­LER. 
The South Bend and ^-icinity '26ers 

The t^otre 'Da me cA I u mnus 
include Attorneys FARAGE, FOLEY, HEMPLING, LaCAVA, and HUR­WICH. Among the local utility mag­nates is HAP KILEY. One of the most popular orchestra leaders is VIC LABEDZ. And there are many others. 

GAIL GURNETT, as reported by JOE BOLAND who made the chief speech at the affair, attended the football banquet at St. Bede Acad­emy, Peru, Illinois, on February 18. Gail is in nearby DePue, Illinois, where he does big things in a chemi­cal way for the Mineral Point Zinc Company. 
And LES LOVIER, who is in Rome, N. Y. doing what the Romans do, was one of ELJIER LAYDEN'S principal aids on the latter's visit to the Roman territorj' for an important event. (No, not blessed.) Some­where there was a newspaper picture that included LAYDEN, ART HALEY and—who do you think, of all peo­ple?— Lovier. Good ole Lovier! 
But, as they say in Rome, what the hell has happened to HAYES? 
1927 
1927—Edmund DeQerq, 8118 Ellis Ave., Chi­
cago, Illinois. 

Recent correspondence gives this information: JAMES S. FLANA­GAN, Attorney and Counsellor, Nor­wich, New York. 
JOE GREELEY, M.A., '27, is in charge of the Toronto-Buffalo-Syra­cuse-Rochester-Binghampton area , and all points in between, for "The Mobilization of Men for Catholic Action," the momentous activity just begun by the international body of the Knights of Columbus. Joe stresses the fact that three of the important objectives of the movement are these: 
1) The Mexican Question; 2) The Support of the Legion of Decency; 
3) The Support of the Notre Dame Foundation for Boy Guidance. He asks particularly for the co-operation of all Notre Dame men in his area. 
JIM McNEILE has changed his address from Mound City, Illinois to 324 Shetland Building, South Bend, where he is now permanently asso­ciated with the South Bend district of the Mutual Life Insurance Com­pany of New York and a fine new member of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
1928 
1928—Ix>ais Bucldey, 718 B. Corby SL, South Bend, Indiana. 
The class secretary crashes through as follows: 
BILL ARMIN is now assistant to Frank Lloyd, Comptroller of the Uni­versity. Bill has been in the Account­ing Department of Notre Dame for the past three years. 
March, 1935 
I had a letter from RAY MULLI­GAN from 205 West Wacker Drive, Chicago, where he is practicing law. Ray informed me of the marriage of ED MANDEVILLE, '26. (Sec marri­age announcements.) 
ART DENCHFIELD writes from Sau Paulo, Brazil, expressing his "un­quenchable chagrin at noting the ab­sence of news and notes from the class of '28 in the November ALUM­NUS." Art is on a nine month trip visiting Interior and Southern Brazil as a traveling auditor for "the great­est foreign sales organization in the world, the Red "S". Art is with the Singer Sewing Machine Co, and gives us permission now to call him an "old sew and sew." Drop him a line, Sin­ger Sewing Machine Co., Sau Paulo, Brazil, S. A. 
A letter from DICK TRANT in­formed us of the sad news of the death of his father on -A-ugust 1, and his sister on Dec. 5. We are very glad, Dick, to request prayers on the Religious Bulletin, as you suggested. Dick is in the hardware business in Cambridge, Nebraska. 
STAN GRINAGER, his wife, and family, have moved to South Bend from Fergus-Falls, Minn. Stan has increased the ranks of '28 men in South Bend to eleven, including DON­OVAN, ARMIN, GRANT, RICH, BOYLE, SCHEUER, SEAEER, WAGNER, and yours truly. 
—ND— 

As a combination reporter for the eastern Pennsylvania area and for some classes in the '28 vicinity, LEO McINTYRE, the Bethlehem educa­tional tycoon, submits the following: 
How is everything with you? Are you going to invade the East again this spring? If you are, let me know and I shall be pleased to show you around again. I have been derelict in my duties as your correspondent for eastern Pennsylvania. Please forgive me. 
Please accept the following notes for what they are worth: 
JIM CROWLEY, HARRY STUHL­DREHER, EDDI E HUNSINGER and MARTY BRILL were visitors in Bethlehem since the close of the 1934 football campaign. They strutted their stuff as after-dinner speakers. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST L. WILHELM. Ernest as you recall, was a member of the class of '27 and received his doctor's degree in 1930. He is now employed by the New Jersey Zinc Company, Paalmerton, Pa., in the research de­partment. 
HUGH L. CAMPBELL, '27, is married and secretary of the Hazle Brick Company, Hazleton, Pa. 
JOH N F. McMAHON, is going great guns with the A.P. in Pitts­
March, 1935 The l^otre 'Dame c/llumnus 
burgh. His story of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game last fall was a grid­iron literary gem. 
THOMAS C. MAHON, of Superior, Wisconsin, is employed by Thomson and McKinnon, brokers, Lonsdale Building, Duluth, Minnesota. He is making good with this company. I hear from Tom occasionally. 
HOWARD V. PHALIN was a wel­come visitor here recently. He is liv­ing at present at 6151 Winthrop Ave., Chicago, and is representing the Foundation Desk Company, Chicago. 
BERNARD A. GARBER, is a Gothamite and from all reports, likes it much better than he did the role of "Pa. Butlerite." 
MARTIN V. "BUD" CALLGY is an up-and-coming New York bai-­rister. 
J. JEROME PARKER, '29, who will be remembered as the glee club's bustling business manager, is in the brokerage business in New York City. The last I heard from him, he had just returned from Europe after a trip to Havana and was ready to set­tle down for several days at Newman Hall, New York City. At that time, the peregrinating Parker told me that LARR Y CULLINEY and Bemie Garber were also residing at Newman Hall. Since that time, however, Ber­nie has moved elsewhere. Jerry also reported that DICK PARRISH, had returned to West Virginia after a year's bicycle tour of Europe. 
I hope the new year will be just as successful and eventful for you as the year 1934 was. I wish you and yours the best of health and luck. 
Please give mv best wishes to BILL DOOLEY. LEO R. McINTYRE. 
ED MOWERY, is now a staff mem­ber on the Lancaster Daily Eagle, Lancaster, Ohio. 
JOH N RICKORD, of Chicago, stopped in South Bend in February to discuss the state of the Union with the Alumni Secretary. 
JULIU S SCHWARTZ, of Flint, has just asked for the transfer of his Notre Dame credits to the medical school at the University of Michigan. 
Further word comes of the grati­fying success of JACK ROBINSON in Waterbury, Connecticut. Jack was elected president of the Young Dem­ocratic Clubs of Connecticut at the annual convention of that organiz-.­tion in January. He is also one of the 12 laymen selected by the Bishop of the diocese to further social justice and, in promoting that end, is giving a weekly broadcast over radio sta­tion WATR in Waterbury. Governor Cross of Connecticut has chosen Jack to asist with plans for Connecticut's tercentenarj' which takes place this year. 
CHARLIE LYNCH, comes word 
from Omaha, is working in the titles' 
department of the farm loan bureau 
and is the happy husband of an 
Omaha girl. 
• 

1929 
1929—Joseph McNamara. 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis, Indiana. 
PAUL BROKHAGE has resigned his association with the Indian Refin­ing Company in Indianapolis to enter business with his father in Vincennes, Indiana. His new street address is 508 South Fifth Street. 
GEORGE CLARK is holding doTi\Ti the responsible position of city editor of the New York Mirror. 
.A.nd JACK ZAVP, according to dope from Sports Publicitor PET­RITZ, is now at Yellow Camp, Camp Berdoo, California. 
CHARLIE DENNY is with the SchoU Mfg. Co., Inc., 62 West 14th Street, New York City. 
In his capacity as traveling repre­sentative of the educational bureau of the National Geographic H.4.RLEY McDEVITT "makes" many part of the country. When his schedule per­mits he stops off at the old address, Notre Dame, for a glimpse of old friends. So it was that he spent some happy hours on the campus late in January. 
You know by now that the o. and o. 
T. MORGAN McNICHOLAS wa s married in Baltimore on Feb. 21. Sez Morgan before the event: "I expect Frank Lloyd to be here and am also expecing BILL CRONIN, DAN B.4.R­TON, BILL CARROLL and a couple of other Notre Dame men." Tom is secretary to the president of the Maryland Casualty Company. 
CLETE SCHNEIDER and OTIS WINCHESTER, want to know lots of things about the '29ers, so they've written as follows: 
Just a few lines, mostly questions. We have been wondering what has happened to some of our fellow class members. Where are those two ex­ponents of pulchritude, PET E (Handsome) BEE and JOHN (Ears) O'CONNOR? In fact you may ask them, Jim, what happened to the Di­rector of Off-Campus and his bird. They tell us that BERNIE BIRD is in the right hand pocket of Louisi­ana's Kingfish and that he has sold his soul to Gov. Allen. 
Where are BOB BR.ANNON and BOB BRENNi\.N and their co-hort BOB M.A.NIX? The last we heard from MICKEY McM\HON he was rp thar in St. Paul. What has hap­pened to the demon redhead of Hazel-ton, BILLY LOUGHRAN? And while we are on that subject, how are BILL O'CONNOR, BILL KRIEG and the 
rest of that Indianapolis crowd? The last we heard from Kansas City was that CHARLIE MEYER was happily married but we did not hear anything from BOB TYLER or JIM BRAY, or is Jim Bray still look­ing for TIM MOYNIHAN and JOHN­NY COLRICK? 
Have you heard anything from the far west, Jim? How about LARRY MOORE, SID SIDENFADEN, JIM BRADY and the DICK brothers? 
What has happened also to BILL BOLES, JOH N HARRINGTON, TOM JORDEN and BOB VOGLE­WEDE? 
The gang around Cleveland are all in the pink. BILL BUTLER is with the Central United Bank which by the way is still open due mostly to Butler. CARL WOLFRAM is work­ing with the State Liquor Commis­sion. We have not heard from or seen BUD WILHELMY lately. FRANK BELTING is sitU around town and as we understand it the proud father of twins. 
P. S. Pardon, Jim, but we just heard at the weekly Cleveland Club luncheon that MICKEY McMi^HON has just received a new promotion to Cincinnati. 
—ND— 

And GEORGE MCDONNELL sez: 
From now on my address will be 80 AVest Main Street, Freehold, New Jersey. Having just completed eight­een months of internship at Mon­mouth Memorial hospital I decided to take a whirl at private practice and here I am. Any day now my shingle will make its public appearance. 
On the side I have been trying to devote some time assisting L.\RRY CARTON, also '29, brother of DICK, '33, in conducting a campaign to get him elected a member of the Board of Education in Middletown Town­ship where we went to high school. Larry is working with the law firm of Arthur Vanderbilt in Newark and has been unusually successful. I ex­pect his campaign to end similarly. 
Dick has been busy with a Brook­lyn firm and FRANCIS McCL.UN, '32, siace finishing at Harvard Busi­ness school, has been occupied in Newark. 
I haven't seen MART Y KEN­NEDY, '32, but I heard he is still around these parts. 
VINCE McCUE, '30, has been working with a Red Bank law firm since finishing at New Jersey Law-school. He indulges in a little politics on the side. I understand VINCENT ECK, '15, is architecting around Red Bank, having erected several beauti­ful churches, schools and other large buildings. 
While in Jersey City I ran into JOHN HANLEY, ex-'29, who will probably be remembered by those of '29 who existed in Freshman Hall in '25-'26. 
ED YORKE, '30, my roommate for three years while we were at Cornell Medical school is interning in Newark City hospital and DAN BRADLEY, '28, who preceded me at Cornell has settled down to a private practice in Amityville, L. I. 
So far I don't know of anybody from Freehold who has gone to N.D. but I'll have to look around and scare up a representation. 
• 1930 
1930—Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St.. New Kensington. Pa. 
In recognition of his ability and achievements BIL L ENGELS has been promoted to the post of research assistant in zoology at the University of California. His address is 2424 Channing Way, Berkeley. 
ED CONROY is working for his master's degree at the University of Texas, Austin. 
PETER WACKS a few weeks ago asked the Registrar for a certifica­tion of his credits. He wrote from the offices of Chaemin and Gold, at­torneys, 300 Press Building, Bing­hampton. New York. 
JOHN GIBBONS is winning wide recognition in Northern Indiana and Southern Michigan for his radio com­ments on local affairs and world af­fairs from WSBT-WFAM, the sta­tions of the South Bend Tribune. John is one of the outstanding mem­bers of the Tribune^s staff, handling many of its most important assign­ments. 
JACK CANNON has resigned his position as line coach at Georgia Tech after four years there and is at pres­ent residing in Columbus where he is an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio. 
BERNIE CONROY wig-wags the information that "JIM SULLIVAN is a funeral director in Royal Oak, Michigan and that MAC TROMB­LEY is practicing law in Mt. Clem­ens, Michigan." 
1931 
1931—John E. Boland. 1402 Linden St.. Scranton, Pa. 
LOUIE GODOY is in training for the coming Olympics as a representa­tive of Cuba and judging from the ^vrite-ups stands a great chance of success in the long distance events. His address is Royal Palm Hotel, Havana, Cuba. 
• 
1932 
1932—Herbert Giorgio. 900S 188th St.. Hollis. 
L. L, N. Y. 
HARRY MOSS is now residing at 71 Vermilyea Ave., New York City. 

The "Notre 'Dame cAlumnus 
FATHER KERNDT HEALY very kindly sends word from St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Indiana, that JOHN H. WILSON is now John 
H. Wilson, C.S.C, a novice. He re­ceived the habit on Nov. 13, 1934. 
REGIS KUHN writes from 265 Cedar Avenue, Oil City, Pa.; "Again you can check me paid on the Alumni Association's book. 
"The new directory was appre­ciated and will be a very helpful book to me and all members many times. 
"I am still at St. Joseph's High School, in this city where I have been since graduation in 1932. Teaching Phy. Ed. and coaching football and basketball are the highlight duties 
•with several minor ones, to keep the days from being too long. 
"Best wishes to you, the family and the Association throughout the year." 
GILBERT AUGUSTINE send s word from Perth Amboy, New Jer­sey, where he is principal of a night school in the public school system. 
JIM MEEHAN asks for his credits so that he can teach in New Jersey and JACK MATTHEWS for his so that he can enter Loyola Law School in Chicago. 
BUDD DYNIEWICZ is using some of his talents to encourage prospec­tive students in the Chicago area. He writes from 4738 Milwaukee Avenue. 
FRAN K TRIERWEILLER is working for Armour & Co. in Sioux City, Iowa. 
JOHN ROSS finished his law course at Fordham last June and is now in a law office in New York Cit>'. 
CARL MEYER is an assistant road engineer for the state of Illinois and is working at present in the southern part of the state. 
• 
1933 
193S—Donald Wise. 124G Hillcrest Road. South Bend. Ind. 
Credits, credits, who has the cred­its? The following are asking for theirs: JOHN BURKE, Glenns FaUs, New York, to the College of Physi­cians and Surgeons, New York City; GEORGE GRU, Brooklyn, to Colum­bia; and LAWRENCE DOORLEY, Lemont Furnace, Pa., to S. W. State Teachers' College, California, Pa. 
ERNEST HORSPOOL is assistant manager of the Fox Stanford Theatre in Palo Alto, Calif. 
And JOHN GILL is attending the University of Chicago and residing at 2539 East 75th Street. 
On a letterhead which reads, "JO­SEPH A. DOCKENFORFF, Archi­tect, 4831 Oakton Street, Niles Cen­ter, Illinois," Joe writes: 
Mardi, 1935 
'If you will kindly change my ad­dress from 502 South 14th Street, La-Crosse, Wis., to that above I'll great­ly appreciate it I've been in Niles Center about a year now, but the ALUMNUS has been going up to La-Crosse, and has been sent to me from there which, of course, is a lot of un­necessary trouble. 
"Incidentally it may be a bit of news for the alumni column that I passed the Illinois State Architects' Examination last November, and was issued a license to practice architec­ture in December last. I've opened an office in Niles Center; and am doing quite well." 
ED WALDER is \vith the First Bank and Trust Company, of Cairo, nUnois, and GEORGE SCHAEFFER is with a drug store in the same far-south city of Illinois. 
1934 
1934—James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale Ave.. Chicago, m. 
JOHN O'CONNOR began the first of January his new duties with the City National Bank and Trust Co., Kansas City, Missouri. He is living at 4133 Mercier Street. 
GERARD FARRELL was the hero of Rochester, New York, early last December when he dived repeatedly into the icy waters of the Genesee riv­er in a futile attempt to save the life of his friend and co-worker, Gerald Donoghue, who had fallen from the deck of a lake freighter. Gerry was taken to the hospital in a serious con­dition as a result of the exposure, but eventually recovered. 
Of the accident and heroic action, the Rochester Democrat and Chron­icle said in part: "Spectators at­tracted to the scene endeavored to prevent Farrell from again risking his own life in the icy water, but he broke away from them. It was not until he had dived four times that the others were able by force to keep him out of the water and take him to quarters of the boat for first aid treatment. Thermometers at the lake side registered 10 above zero." 
Both men were employed by the Dolomite Marine Corporation, owners of the boat which had shortly before arrived in Rochester from Cleveland by way of Lake Erie, the Welland Canal and Lake Ontario. 
•JOE DEGNAN, erstwhile Juggler impressario, is with the advertising agency of Young and Rubicam, New York City, and is living at 4 West 40th Street in the same village. 
Some more credit transfers: BOB SULLIVAN to the Fordham School of Social Service; R.A.YMOND JOHN BOLAND to DePaul and CLAR­ENCE JENKINS to St. Bonaventure. R.-VY TROY also asked for his credits so as to enter law school but the name of the school, if he knows it, hasn't been released by Gunner Rior­dan. 

Old Man Winter seems to be on the run at last, because here and there an alumnus of '34 occasionally pokes his head from out of his hiber­nating quarters with a feeble, "Here I am!" 
RED CURRAN, who is assistng his father in his Chicago roofing busi­ness, reports that NORB RASCHER has temporarily spumed a White Sox contract for a promising coaching job in Pennsylvania. We can't blame Norb for holding out for a big league offer. 
CHARLIE SCHWARTZEL keeps busy down New Albany, (Indiana) way helping his father's business dur­ing the week, and helping BIL L VEENEMAN show RUSS LEON­ARD the sights of Louisville over the week-ends. 
GEORGE REESE has returned from New York to enter the insur­ance business in Chicago. ERA KIEP says that "Eagle's" best sales talks are put forth on the bowling alleys. 
RUSS STEMPER, of Glee Club fame is furthering his vocal pursuits at DePaul University in the spare time that his position with the Pull­man Company affords. No he does not aspire to be a conductor. 
JIM MORRISON is a statistician for a realty company on Chicago's South Side. BOB KELLY has changed his place of residence from South Bend and he, too, now is a South side Chicagoan. 
This concludes and exhausts my knowledge of the whereabouts of any more of the boys, Jim, so until next time— 
JIM MOSCOW. 

Sullivans and Murphys 

Irish names are at the top in the Student Directory just published at Notre Dame. Though the invading Smiths offered strong competition to the Murphys and the Sullivans, the Irishmen came out on top again on the strength of 24 Sullivan names registered at the University. 
The Mui-phy clan made the victory more complete by tying the Smiths, phonebook champions, for second place with a marshalled strength of 21 names. 
Strangely enough the usual run­ning mate of the Smiths, the Jones tribe, didn't even place, being able to de%'elop a futile strength of only three names on the whole campus. Another champion of old has fallen. 




N. D. FACULTY ACTIVE IN OUTSIDE CONTACTS 
Pursuing the outside relations pro­gram, largely through the agency of the Alumni Office, the first two months of 1935 have seen many or­ganizations and schools, both neigh­boring and distant, addressed by rep­resentatives from the campus. The results cannot help but benefit the University in good will and enroll­ment. 
A summary of these activities fol­lows: . 
Jan. 6—Coach Joe Boland and Mike Layden appeared at a banquet in Belleville, HI., under the auspices of Cathedral H. S. 
Jan. 7—Joe and Mike spoke at South Side Catholic H. S. and Mc­Bride H. S. in St. Louis and at a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. 
Jan. 8—Registrar Robert Riordan and J. E. Armstrong spoke to 96 sen­iors of Catholic Central H.S. in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Jan. 10—J. E. .Armstrong attended College Day, Farragut H.S., Chicago. Jan. 14—Prof. William Downey ad­dressed Mishawaka Chapter, A. A. 
U. W., at their regular meeting. Jan. 15—High school coaches of neighboring schools attend football banquet. Jan. 16—William D o o 1 e y attends College Day, Lindblom H.S., Chicago; Armstrong speaks to assemblv New Carlisle H. S. Jan. 17—Prof. Louis Buckley ad­dresses Kokomo K. of C; B. K. Win­gerter represents N.D. at College Day North Plainfield, N. J., H.S.; Arm­strong attends College Day, Austin H.S., Chicago. Jan. 18—Armstrong covers College Day, Englewood H.S., Chicago. Jan. 19—Alumni Association pub­lishes News of Notre Dame sent to 1200 prospective students on file in .\lumni Office. Jan. 24—Registrar Riordan speaks to LaPorte, Ind., Kiwanis; St. Joseph Valley alumni directors plan joint ac­tivity with Villagers at luncheon; Armstrong outlines Association pro­gram to Senior group at dinner. Jan. 28—Rev. William Cunning­ham, C.S.C, wins large audience at Niles Progressive League with talk on education. Jan. 29—Prof. William Downey ad­dresses Bremen, Ind., Kiwanis. Jan. 31—Elmer Layden addresses ad writers club in Philadelphia; Prof. Alden Davis, Registrar Riordan and Armstrong counsel seniors in South Bend H. S. Feb. 1—Elmer Layden, accompan­ied by Art Haley, appears before Washington, D.C. alumni; Dooley and 
Armstrong attend alumni secretaries conference U. of Chicago; Dooley at­tends conunittee organization for con­
vention of National Catholic Alumni 
Federation, Palmer House. 
Feb. 2—^Layden and Haley visit 
New York City for coaches meeting. 
Feb. 4—^Dooley speaks before St. Joseph's Catholic H.S., St. John's Catholic H. S. and Benton Harbor 
H.S. in St. Joe and Benton Harbor and attends meeting N.D. Club of Berrien County at Hotel Whitcomb; Armstrong addresses joint meeting of St. Joseph Valley alumni and Villag­ers at Club Pierre, South Bend. 
Feb. 5—^Layden and Haley make several appearances in Elmira, N. Y. 
Feb. 6—Layden and Haley make similar appearances in Rome; Father O'Hara addressed Mid-Day Luncheon Club, Springfield, 111.; Prof. Frank Kelly addressed South Bend H. S. drama club; N. D. students present musical program New Carlisle H.S. 
Feb. 7—Layden and Haley attend alumni luncheon in Syracuse and alumni dinner in Rochester, visiting several prep schools in each city; Riordan and Joe Boland address and show films to N. D. club of Calumet District in Hammond; Riordan visits Catholic Central H.S. there and ad­dresses Whiting Lions; Kelly gives readings before College Club, Niles. 
Feb. 8—Layden and Haley stop for alumni luncheon, Buffalo; Riordan addresses Whiting H.S. students. 
Feb. 9—Armstrong addresses Ind. State H.S. Oratorical Contest dinner. 
Feb. 10—^Through alumni coopera­tion, six Catholic H.S. in Indiana com­pete for Wranglers state oratorical title and J. P. McNamara, '29, cup. 
Feb. 11—Revs. Eugene Burke and 
J. L. Carrico address 500 Holy Name members and families, Kalamazoo; Riordan gives Lincoln Day address to Nappanee Kiwanis; Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C, addresses Niles Reading Club. 
Feb. 17—Father O'Hara addresses Purdue XJ. student convocation, ac­companied by Moreau Choir. 
Feb. 18—Rev. George Marr, C.S.C, addresses Catholic Po.rum, South Bend; Joe Boland addresses annual football banquet to championship St. Bede eleven, Peru, 111. 
Feb. 21—Elmer Layden and Art Haley cover appointments in Water­bury, Conn., arranged by alumni through Waterbury K. of C. 
Feb. 22—Layden and Haley appear in Providence, R. I. before alumni club and guests. 
Feb. 23—Chet Grant presents Doc­tor D. M. Nigro basketball trophy in Kansas City. 
Feb. 24—Layden an d Haley in Hartford, Conn., meeting with Bishop McAuliffe. 
Feb. 25—Layden and Haley address Connecticut Valley alumni club and guests at Hartford. 
1^ 

c^ 
© 1935, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. 







