The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
WMml$Mq-125^ Years
mmi 
NOTKE DAME 

anuary 1967 february 
Compendium 

UNIVERSITY 
CALENDAR Feb. 1. Second Semester begins. 
Feb. 1-7. Mardi Gras. Feb. 12, Dedication Pro­gram of New Notre Dame Post Office. Feb. 22, Senior Class Pa­triot of the Year Award. Mar. 10-12, Junior-Parent Weekend. Mar. 13-22, Mid-term Exams. Mar. 23-Apr. 3, Easter Va­cation. 
THE ARTS "The Playboy of the West-em World." ND - SMC Theatre, Washington Hall, 
8:30 pm, Feb. 2-4 and 9-11. Copeland Burg, Paintings, East Gallery O'Shaugh­nessy Hall, Feb. 5-Mar. 5. 
Marilyn Mason and Paul Doctor, Organ and Viola Concert, Sacred Heart Church, Feb. 7. Symphony Strings, Library Audit., Feb. 9. 
Bev. Patrick Maloney CSC, 
Tenor, Concert, Washing­ton Hall, Feb. 16. 
Museum Purchase Fund Collection. West Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Feb. 
10-Mar. 12. Mr. Schwabacher, Lecture-Recital, Library Audit, Feb. 23. Shelley Gnisldn Trio. Con­cert, Library Audit, Feb. 24. 
Collegiate Jazz Festival, 
Stepan Center, Mar. 2-4. 
Chicago Symphony Quar­tet, Concert, Library Audit, 
Mar. 6. 
Bro. Daniel Kane CSC. 
Piano Recital, Library Audit., Mar. 9. 
"The Mad Woman of Chail­lot," ND-SMC Theatre, O'Lcmghlin Audit, Mar. 9­
12 and 16-18. New Works of Eonstantin Milonadis, East Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Mar. 
12-Apr. 2. Marjorie Madey. Soprano, Concert, Library Audit, Mar. 16. Italian Drawings: "The Life of the Virgin Mary," West Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Mar. 19-Apr. 23. 

BOOKS 

Bro. Marion Belka SM (PhD '59) ed. and Sr. Marion Hosinski SSM (Ph '64) co­author, "Identity," second in a series of group guid­ance books for youth en­titled "Being and Becom­ing," Bruce Publishing Co. Gordon J. DiBenzo '56, ed., "Concepts, Theory, and Explanation in the Be­havioral Sciences," a col­lection of essays that probe the methodology and epis­temology of the behavioral sciences from an interdisci­plinary point of view, Nov., Random House, $4.95. 
Notrm Dameg'1966 Annual Alumni Fund topped the $2 million mark in late December with the arrival of this check shown by ND Foundation staff member Mrs. Peg Humphrey to James E. Armstrong, Alumni executive secretary, and Dennis F. Troester, director of the fund. An interim report on the 1966 Fund indicated an increase of 787 Alumni gifts — representing more than $700,000 — over the same period in 1965. A complete final report will be made in the March-April ALUMNUS. 
Canon A. L. GabiieL dir. Mediaeval Institute, "The Ambrosiana Microfilming Project," Edizioni di Storia e Letteratvu-a, Rome. Arthur RubeL assoc. prof, soc, "Across the Tracks: Mexican - Americans in Texas City," a description of the process by which Mexican - Americans and Anglos have adapted to each other, U. Texas Press. Julian Samora. prof, soc, ed, "La Raza: Forgotten Americans," a ' study on Mexican Americans, Sept, UND Press. 



CENTER FOR 
CONTINUING 
EDUCATION Feb. IB. Law School Sym­posium, "Fair Trial and Free Press." 
Feb. 24, ISth Annual Union Management Conf. Feb. 24-25, Symposium on Communications, s p o n ­sored by WSND and Com­munication Arts. Mar. 1, Indiana Advisory Committee on Academic Facilities. Mar. 5-8. Symposium: Al­liance for Rrogress in Chile. Mar. 9-10. Worm Air Heat­ing and Sheet Metal Assn. 
Conf. Mar. 11. American Produc­tion in Inventory Control Society. Mar. 16-18. American As­sembly Conf. Mar. 27-29. American Cath­
olic Philosophical Assn. 
ConL 
FACULTY 
G. Edward Hanrood re­tired from the post of comptroller of the Univer­sity. Peter K. Ludwig. research scientist in chem. in radia­ton lab, awarded US pa­tent for mercury-wetted fixed electrode electric arc generator. Bichard M. Lynch, osst comptroller, to the post of comptroller of the Univer­sity. John F. PlouS '38 to the post of administrative osst to the exec. VP. Dr. Harry Soze. prof, of'civ. engr., acting head of the College of Engineering Nov. 30. 
Dr. Bruce B. Srhimming. 
osst prof, of civil engr., to the post of acting head of the dept of civil engr. Dr. Emeit W. Thiele. visit­ing prof, of chem. engr., recipient of the Founders Award of the American In­stitute of Chemical Engi­neers. 
Brp. Baphael IKnison CSC '4C dir. of admissions and scholarships, re-appointed a member of the Commit­tee of Examiners for the National Science Test 
GRANTS 
University. Dec. $60,000 from Mcrley Blackhurst for the formation of the Eva 
C. Blackhurst Memorial Scholarship Fund, primar­ily for students from Mid­land County, Mich. University, $5,000 unre­stricted grant from Stan­dard Oil (Indiana) Foun­dation. 
College of Business Admin­istration. $10,000 Founder's Gift from Duimiore Co. of Racine, Wis. for the new Graduate School of Bus. Admin. 
College of Business Admin­istration, $353,816 from US Office of Education for the new Graduate School of Bus. Admin. 
College ot Liberal and Fine Arts, Dec, $7,000 from US Office of Education for the formation of summer teacher training institute in American history under the direction of Dr. Samuel Shapiro, assoc. prof, of liistory. 
Geology Department. Dec, $38,270 from NSF for the continuation of summer teacher training institute under the direction of Rev. Michael Murphy CSC, as­soc. prot geology. 
Aerospace Engineering. 
$49,484 from Air Force Armament Lab and Sys­tems Command for study of fundamental flight dy­namics of aircraft muni­tions under the direction of Dr. Jofin Nicolaides, prof, of aerospace engr. 
Aerospace Engineering. 
$2,000 from Raytheon Co. for study of reduction of free flight data on BMTS Round No. 5 under the di­rection of Dr. John Nico­laides, proL of aerospace engr. 
Aerospace Engineering. 
$4,800 from the Aerospace Corp. for analysis of re­duction of reentry vehicle flight test dynamic motion study under the direction of Dr. John Nicolaides, prof, of aerospace engr. 
Aerospace Engineering, 
$9,937 from Army Research Office, Durham for study of wind turmel free flight technique to determine lift and drag of wing con­figuration, under the direc­tion of Vincent J*. Goddard, asst prof, of aerospace engr. 
Chemistry Department. 
Dec, $72,430 from NSF for the continuation of summer teacher training institute under the direction of Dr. Emil T. Hofman, assoc. prof, of chem. 
Chemistry Department, 
Oct, $11,088 from National Institute of Health for study of spectra of amino acids and protein metal com­


-Atutnni Ask­
plexes under the direction of Rev. Joseph WaUer CSC, assl. prof, ol chem. Chemistry Department, $3,000 from E.I. duPont de Nemours Co. for postgrad­uate teaching assistant award in chemistry under the direction of Dr. John Magee, dept. head. Chemistry Department/ $1,000 grant-in-aid for re­search under the direction of Dr. John Magee, dept. head. Radiation Lab, $120,000 from AEC for study of ef­fects of radiation on mat­ter under the direction of Dr. Milton Burton, prof, of chem. Chemical Engineering Ds­partmenL $4,000 grant-in­aid from Esso Education Foundation for depart­mental research and grad­
uate training under the direction of Dr. Julius Ban­chero, prof, of chem. engr. Mathematics Department, $41,300 NSF renewal grant for research in arithmetic theory of classical groups under the direction of Dr. 
O. Timothy O'Meora, prof, math. Mathematics Department, Dec, $113,820 from NSF for the continuation of sum­mer teacher training insti­tute under the direction of Dr. Abraham Goetz, assoc. prof, of math. Mechanical Engineering. $5,000 from E.I. duPont de Nemours Co. for advanc­ing the teaching of me­chanical engineering un­der the direction of Dr. Ed­ward Jerger, dept. head. Metallurgical Engineering, $1,000 grant-in-aid for re­search under the direction of Dr. Nicholas Fiore, assl. prof, of met. engr. Microbiology Department, $4,000 from United Health Fund of Elkhart County for cancer research under the direction of Dr. Morris Pol­lard, prof, of microbio. Microbiology Department $15,475 from NIH for re­search career development 
grant for research in res­piratory enzymes under the direction of Dr. Ronald J. Downey, asst prof, of microbio. Physic s Department, $48,300 from NSF for nu­clear structure research under the direction of Dr. Cornelius P. Browne, prof, of physics. Physic s Department. $24,000 from Office of Navy Research for fundamental research on emitting ma­terials and associated solid state physics under the di­rection of Dr. Edward A. 
Coomes, prof, of physics. Physic s Department, $80,000 from AEC for study of interaction of photons 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
and particles with nuclei under the direction of Dr. Charles MuUin, prof, of physics. Physic s Department, $85,000 AEC renewaUgrant for program in nticleor spectroscopy under the di­rection of Dr. John Mi­helich, prof, of physics. Physic s Department, $48,300 from NSF for re­search program in nuclear structure undar the direc­tion of Dr. Cornelius P. Browne, prof, of physics. Physic s Department, Dec, $41,490 from NSF for the continuation of the summer teacher training institute under the direc­tion of Dr. Robert Anthony, prof, of physics. 


LECTURES 

Seminars in Short Story Writing, under the direc­tion of Richard Sullivan '30 proi. of Eng., CCE, Jan. 10 and 24; Feb. 7 and 21; Mar. 7 and 21; Apr. 4 and 18; May 2 and 16. Marriage Institute Lectures, Theology Dept, Washing­ton Hall, Feb. 14, 21, 28; Mar. 7, 14. Challenge in Science Lec­ture, Dr. Edward Teller, U. ol California Radiation Lab. CCE, Feb. 6. Academic Conunission Lec­ture, Student Government Drew Pearson, Library Audit, Feb. 7. Cardinal OUara Memorial Lectture, Dr. Fritz Machlup, Princeton U., Library AucU­torium, Feb. 15. 
Collegiate Seminar Lec­ture, Prof. Otto Seeler, "Faust" Library Audit, Feb. 21. Nieuwland Science Lecture Series in Biology. Prof. Carroll M. Williams, Har­vard U., Mar. 6-10. • Collegiate Seminar Lec­ture. Prof. Eugene Fergu­son, Iowa State U., Library Audit., Mar. 14. Academic Commission Lec­ture. Student Government General Hershey, Library Audit, Mar. 15. Academic Commission Lec­ture. Student Government Mr. S. L. A. Marshall, syn­dicated news columnist. Library Audit, Mar. 20. Challenge in Science Lec­ture. Dr. G. W. Beadle, President U. of Chicago, CCE, Mar. 20. 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Auto Show. Stepon Center, Feb. 10-12. 15th Annual ND Debate Tournament. CCE and Li­brary Audit, Mar. 2-4. Finance Fonmi. Finance Club, Library Audit., Feb. 21-22. Northern Indiana Regional Science Fair, Stepan Cen­ter, Mar. 31-Apr. 1. 
Coexistence? TO THE EDITOR: Just heard from the radio and TV that Notre Dame was named Notional Football Champions. Congratulations and more blessings. This goes to show that the great strides of academic excellence and intellectual expansions at Notre Dame, lately attested by the American Council of Education, can go hand and hand with the glories and greatness in athletics—^specifically football. . . . ND can stand with pride and glory as the very evident substantiation of the harmonious coexistence of academic excellence and success in atiiletics . . . 
Rt Rev. Msgr. Osmundo A. Calip, MA '54-PhD '56 
New York, N.Y. TO THE EDITOR: I suppose one ought to extend congrcrtu­lations to the football team on their excellent record this past season. It wouldn't be prudent from this distance and with so little information to wonder what this has meant for academic improvement Yet I have had cause for concern, I must confess. For the time being, at least I bury these and admit to feeling proud that the long dry-spell which began when I was a student is at long last over. As an old SCHOLASTIC editor I often wonder how the present staff feel about football fortimes, academic excellence and (from the Uttle I hear) the general liberaliza­tion of rules. Oh well, these are just the musings of a grad who is all too quickly approaching the 10-year mark. 
Dr. James F. Steintrager '58 
London, England TO THE EDITOR: I will find it impossible to contribute to the Alumni fund until the day when football ceases to corrupt Notre Dame. While I was in attendance at the University, I indicated to many of my fellow students my disgust at the madness that swept the school each fall. Its harm was pervasive. I continue to believe that big-time football has no rightful place on a college campus. I am certain that many members of the administration, faculty and student body will have to register their dissent before this millstone can be removed from the neck of a potentially good university. 
Gregory J. Hobbs Jr. '66 
New York, N.Y. Continue the Chase TO THE EDITOR: I enjoy to some extent the publications I get and in the latest the article re teaching by Prot Cronin. It has always seemed to me that while a university is a knowledge center and the seeking of more knowledge is needed and admirable, the poor student needs some consideration in this scheme of things. I know in the hold of the latest football frenzy it would seem that students are less than mature, yet there is still no reason to reduce their importance and needs for the chase after knowledge and status sought by so many in the teaching profession. The imparting of knowledge seems to me to be as important as the chase. 
John C. Gallagher '39 Chicago, 111. 

(Note—Additional remarks on the Cronin-Massey Debate,p. 9.) And from the tCller Family, We Hear A Bid TO THE EDITOR: This is in reference to Mr. William C. O'Toole's letter and your note thereafter in the Nov.-Dec ALUMNUS. For what it is worth, let me put in a bid for the Miller family. Over a two-generation period we have had the following graduates: Harry '08; Ray '14; Walter '20; Jerry '25; Don '25; Tom '43; Creighton '44; Ray Jr. '51; Richard '54; Robert '57; Riley '59 Don Jr. '64. Also in the early '50s there were two other Millers who attended Notre Dame but did not graduate. The third generation will be starting at ND in ciiout three years. 
Richard H. Miller '54 Qeveland, Ohio 

Unanimous TO THE EDITOR: I have followed the recent debates in the ALUMNUS engendered by the criticisms of Gerry Hekker with great interest The reply of George Keenan in the most recent issue was an excellent rebuttal to most of the points raised. I think it points out aptly that a Class Reunion is what one makes of it If one does not prefer golf or beer I seem to recall a recent innovation of having the deans available to inform Alumni of new developments. I think we should all consider ourselves in George Keenan's debt for the excellent statement on Class Reunions. I feel we are equally in Gerry Hekker's debt for raising the questions that brought forth George Keenan's statement 
George Jansen '50 Parma, Ohio 
1 


EDITORIALS 
Eartiegt Concepts Rentaiu 
In this 125th year of the University, a review of the purpose of the Alumni Association seems a proper con­sideration. Notre Dame alumni have been a part of the University, in organized association, since 1868. The first Alumni Association was proposed to participate in the Silver Jubilee of the University—historically 1867, but expedienUy held in 1869. At that time the Associa­tion assumed the responsibility' for the preparation and publication of the Silver Jubilee history of Notre Dame. 
The purpose of the Association embodied the concept of Alma Mater, nourishing mother. Just as a mother never ceases to seek ways of ser\'ing a son, so as the son grows he is presented with opportunities to return the services to his mother. In strong families this mutual effort to serve is the common denominator. 
Today in the American Alumni Council delibera­tions we find colleges and universities with varying interpretations of alumni relations. Some believe that the alumni organizations exist to serve the institution. Some believe that the success of alumni organization hinges on the services of the institution to its alumni. Some believe that only a completely independent alumni association can succeed, uith services to or from the institution optional witii the alumni. 
It seems to me that our original purpose, with its mutual love and service, remains a constant factor. It has been repeatedly endorsed in the long years of our relationships. 
Highlights of our history provide the point of our thesis. After the Silver Jubilee, formal organization faded into the informal custom of Alumni coming back to the campus for the Commencement weekend. In 1908 the late Father John W. Cavanaugh issued a call for a reorganization of the Alunmi Association. It ^^ras not a call for service to the University. Rather, it was a stirring reminder that Alumni owed it to themselves to maintain the personal ties with each other and with the University which was their alma mater. It was, as Father Cavanangh later said, the mark of the educated man to be "mindful of the caves from which he was di^;ed, the rocks from which he was hewTi. Traditions," he s^d, "are the tapestries of all noble halls." 
It was Alunmi initiative that introduced in 1908 the idea for an "old students hall" as a project of the revitalized Association providing for a residence hall on the campus as a gift from the Alumni. This project was realized in 1924. In the meantime, the unselfish work of volunteer officers had preserved a continuous program. But the first fund-raising campaign in Uni­versity history from 1921-1923 had demonstrated that Alumni organization had become too large and too significant for volunteer effort. 
The first Alumni Office was established in 1923 along wth the ALUMNUS magazine. Universal Notre Dame Night was<established in 1924. And the era of continuous Alunmi oi^anization was launched. With the cooperation of the University, placement help was offered to graduates. University hospitality remained on the Commencement weekend until the Alumni Asso­ciation itself, in the face of growing numbers, established the separate Reunion Weekend with its modest fee to preclude a rapidly growing financial outiay by the University. 
During the depression years the University cooper­ated in the maintaining of the Alumni Office, the ALUMNUS magazine and the continuing support of the local Club programs. Now, continuing education promises to expand the tradition of University service to Alunmi as a lifelong opportunity to enrich their lives. 
In recent years the balance of ser\'ice has swung in favor of the Alunmi Association. The record of the Alumni Fund and the Foimdation program—^instigated by the Alumni Association—are tremendous contribu­tions to Notre Dame progress. Alumni have become worldwide effective instnmients, individually and through the Clubs, in the creation of public relations and prestige for the University. Alumni, through their sons and through their cooperation with the admissions office as interviewers, have contributed to the qualit)' rise of the University enrolhnent 
All of this is a very small capsule of the great story that is at once the University of Notre Dame and its Alumni Association. What seems to emerge in this historical year is that the earliest concept—mother and son vying to serve each other—^remains as the underlying reason for our present status and as the guiding principle for all the years ahead. 
James E. Armstrong, '25 Alumni Association Executive Secretary 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

i\eir Partnership Todaff 
"Of all sad words of tongue and pen The saddest are these: 'It might have been.'" 
Don't you believe it. Even sadder are the words, "if only we had more time." Over the past year I have communicated with you a number of times through the columns of the ALUMNUS. Originally, I had hoped to report on activities of the Alumni Board. However, as each deadline approached, I found myself reporting more and more not on activities, but on attitudes and objectives—on things the Board wanted to do. I suppose in looking back I could summarize the ambition of the Board by saying that we wanted to establish an atmo­sphere that would allow the Alumni Association to become an integral part of the University activities. Among these were activities that would allow the Alumni to take part in a program that would assure Notre Dame its choice of the best boys in the world, and that any boy who wanted to go to Notre Dame and who was wanted by Notre Dame, could find the means to attend. 
It is an ambitious dream, but a realizable one. 
It is interesting to note how the various influences affecting universities in general have changed over the years. The first change came when administrators started treating faculties like people. The second change is still dramatically with us today, brought about by the insurrection, revolt, transformation or emergence of student influence, depending on your point of view. A triumvirate consisting of administration, faculty and students, all working for the same objective and \vith the same goals, certainly makes up a powerful team. How­ever, a source of strength — an additional power — exists in every university complex. So far, in most institu­tions, it has been tapped only occasionally for specific and narrow assignments. We now believe that our alumni through the Alumni Office, the Board of Directors and the local Clubs can make contributions to the University comparable to those of the administration, the faculty and the students. We believe Alumni should be considered equal partners in the university operation. 
Since its beginning the Alumni Board had worked quiedy, inconspicuously, but effectively under the direc­tion of the Alumni Office to prepare the way for broader .\lumni activities. The cooperation of every department of the present University administration with the Board and the understanding by the adminstration of the Board's objectives is all that could be desired. For the past couple of years we also have had contact wth stu­dent leaders and have had presentation of their various problems made at our meetings. 
The next and most important step is the involve­ment of every Alumnus in University programs. We believe this can be done most effectively through the activity of the local Clubs. In the near future we hope to be able to announce plans that will enable many more Alumni to enjoy the kind of contact and to share the kind of information about University activities as do the Board members. When that happens, one of the most ambitious objectives of the Board will have been realized. From there on progress is your responsibility. 
Thomas P. Carney, '37 Alumni Association President 
Am Himtmrie *S7 
During 1967 Notre Dame will mark its 125th armiver­sary. Not especially old as universities go — Heidelberg was foimded in 1386, Harvard is 331 years old — but a respectable, if not advanced, age in this decade of "in­stant" campuses. 
The University's 125th birthday will generate a cer­t^n amoimt of nostalgia, rhetoric, oratory and even pageantry. No doubt a special academic convocation, perhaps in November, will celebrate a century-and-a­quarter of Notre Dame service to the nation, the Church and the world. 
But if 1%7 is to stand out in the annals of Notre Dame, it will be not so much for savoring the past as gearing for the futiure. It now appears likely that dur­ing the coming year, in the spirit of Vatican II and in recognition of the complexities of our time, laymen will come to exert a much greater influence in Notre Dame affairs. For the first time since 1842, laymen will par­ticipate wth Holy Cross Priests in the government of Notre Dame as Fellows of the University and as mem­bers of a reconstituted Board of Trustees. The year also will bring adoption of a new Faculty Manual which, more than ever before, %vill specify the rights and pre­rogatives, as well as the resfxinsibilities, of scholars in the 20th-centiuy Catholic university. 
With plans far advanced for the reorganization of Notre Dame's trustees, advisory councils and faculty, there is a parallel, healthy ferment in other areas, too. More than a score of major educational and research programs and construction projects have been blue­printed for action this year. They are destined to transform Notre Dame's profile, physically and academ­ically, and will require imprecedented resources. 
Here then is considerable evidence that Notre Dame, on the eve of its 125th birthday, is looking ahead, not behind. Somehow we think that Father Edward Sorin, Notre Dame's founder and guiding spirit for its first half-century, would like that. It ^vas Sorin who called this place a University when its "plant" consisted of a log cabin. It was Sorin who placed a Golden Dome atop the Administration Building when he wasn't sure how he could meet the next payroll. It was Sorin who crossed the Atiantic sixty-eight times before the turn of the century to seek scholars and sup{x>rt for his univer­sity in the wilderness. Were he alive today, Sorin, man of vision that he was, would, we think, applaud the aggiornamento in the Church and, above all, at his and our beloved Notre Dame. 
James E. Murphy, '47 Director of Public Information 



ALUMNUS JANUARY }967 FEBRUARY 
', '^­



MSf20 

^!^•inSf%-':'••>••.•lC,'!•'''••• •'-' • ' ' ­
from the managing 
^MJ/W ^M^Tn The celebration of Notre 
w3mMm/myWWm Dame's 125th year comes 
at a time no less exciting than that cold November day in 
1842 when its founder first arrived at Ste.-Marie-des-Lacs. 
For that fact one might be greatly pressed to really find any 
moment in the University's history that rivals the excitement 
and growth Notre Dame now experiences in 1967. 
The issue today regarded the governance of the University (Page 6) has been a ver^' crucial matter, as critical to the long existence and potentially brilliant future of Notre Dame as die decision a century and a quarter ago to begin a college in Northern Indiana. 
Other less critical developments — but challenging and spectacular in their own realm — are a vibrant student body who just three weeks ago brought the vice-president of the United States to campus for several hours merely to exchange views about a countiy and its youth (Page 8). 
In tlie academic field where activity seems always to be at a fever pitch the philosophy department is at work pre­paring to host many of the countrj''s leading philosophers at a meeting in March at which it hopes to stimulate envig­orated new approaches to the teaching of philosophy in Catholic colleges and universities (Page 12). Concurrently, the College of Science continues its year-old but already widely respected program that attracts many of the world's leading scientists and Nobel prize winners to its laboratories and lecture halls (page 12). 
And lastly, from Notre Dame's own world of sports emerges a fast gi-owing game whose appearance last year prompted many to say, "this is the greatest thing since football." It's intercollegiate hockey and its sudden rise in student popularity together with its success on the ice this year will make it a major college contender when it opens on its own indoor rink in 1969 (Page 56). 
Men of Notre Dame, however, are also absorbed in much activity beyond the University's campus. Foremost in the minds of Americans today is the countiy's involvement in Vietnam. In the thick of the Far Eastern turmoil there have been numbered men like J. J. Carroll '60 (Page 8), Mike Sexton '64 (Page 9) and hundreds of others whose contribu­tions the ALUJIN'US intends to record in its new section, "Up Front." (Page 36). 
This is Notre Dame today, 1967. Indeed, it would be interesting to know what Edward Frederick Sorin would say now about his beloved beautiful place. One himdred and twenty-five years older, it has been much enlarged, greatly more populated, but still very, ver)' beautiful and exciting as it begins its next centmy and a quarter. 
INDE X  
Cover Story .  51  
Alumni Ask  I  Law School  39  
Classes  16  Photoany  48  
Clubs  40  Potpourri  6  
Compendium Editorials . . •  . Inside Cover 2  SportsTopside  56  14  

im 
NOTRE DAME 



gUinii« 
Jan. 1967 Feb. Vol.45. No. I 

PotpoMBrri 

Consonant with the Times 
Four days of closed-door debate by 44 Holy Cross Priests in late Janu­ary ended with the historical deci­sion to turn the guidance of Notre Dame over to an independent gov­erning body of combined clerical and lay members. 
The overwhelmingly endorsed (38 to 4) proposal to change the admin­istrative organization of the Univer­sit)'—the first fundamental change in its structure since it ^sias founded in 1842 — in effect states that Notre Dame now wU be run not only by the finest talent within the Holy Cross Order, but, potentially, by the most qualified men to be found anywhere. 
Since receiving its corporate status from the State of Indiana more than 124 years ago, Notre Dame has been governed exclusively by priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. How­ever, as the University grew and as larger amounts of public and pri­vate money became increasingly avail­able to support the University, the Order unofficially adapted itself to structural changes which brought lay­men into the governing of Notre Dame. 
Lay Influence. Some 40 years ago the Associate Board of Lay Trustees was formed as an advisory group. In time the Board became increasingly in­volved in discussions affecting Univer­sity decisions and in 1947 it accepted full responsibility for the investment of the University's endowment. Now as the University enters still another era of increased complexity, the Holy Cross Order, in the words of Notre Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, "has approved giving juridical recognition to what has be­come increasingly true in practice." 
Notre Dame's new governing struc­ture—^which awaits approval by the 
THE 
Holy See and the Superior General of the Holy Cross Order—roughly resembles the structure of a business corporation. The six clerical members of the existing board wU elect six laymen to their ranks. Together they ivill form the new governing group to be known as the "Fellows of the University." The Fellows in turn will elect themselves and others to a 30 to 40-member Board of Trustees which \vill assume functions compar­able to the board of directors of a commercial corporation. Final deci­sions, however, will rest \vith the Fellows. 
Points of Concern. Through the two years of discussion leading up to the Order's January vote, greatest concern regarding the reorganization has been focused on such questions as why the University's existing structure should be changed; what assurance there would be that Notre Dame will re­main Catholic; and, finally, what would be the Order's role at Notre Dame and the effect it would have on the university community. 
Addressing critics of all three points. Rev. Howard J. Kenna CSC, provin­cial of the Indiana Province, pointed out "these new arrangements are con­sonant with the complexities of our time, WTLW safeguard the Catholic char­acter of the University and will pre­serve, even increase, the effectiveness of the apostolate of the Holy Cross Fathers of this institution." 

M 
To those associated wth the Uni­versity in the last 25 years, it has be­come readily apparent that Notre Dame is no longer a small community of faculty, students and campus facil­ities capable of being.managed by a single group of religious. A faculty which years ago was made up almost entirely of Holy Cross Priests, has now increased to more than 700 of which only 55 are members of the Order. Concurrently, the student body has grown from two thousand to a com­

IS­
bined undergraduate and graduate en­rolhnent of 7,500. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

UNIVERSITY 
^it£» »•* ] 
.^^ ^^', 
<^^ 
THE PRESIDENT 
"An element of risk, an abundance of Phenomenal Growth. Financially, the University's growth has been equally as phenomenal. Whereas 20 years ago tlie University operated on a $4 million yearly budget, it now does the job an­nually at a little more than $30 mil­lion. Its endowment, which grew from nothing to $5 million in its first 14 years, is leaping for\vard at the rate of an additional $5 million every two to three years. Today, the total Notre Dame physical plant is valued at $100 million and it takes more than 2,000 people to operate it. 
The decision by the Holy Cross Order to share the governance of the University with lajmen was not a 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
financial consideration alone. The opportunity to attract equally expert guidance from within administrative and academic circles like­wise prompted the decision. In addition, the new or­ganization provides a struc­ture in which a greater voice may be expressed by the faculty and the student body in the guidance of the University. 
The other two widely ex­pressed concerns—retention of the Catholic character of the University and the fu­ture role of Holy Cross Priests at Notre Dame—are equally insured by the gov­ernance changes. 
Religious Character. From a legal point of view, the presence of six religious members on the governing board will help to insure the religious influence at the University. As passed by the Holy Cross Order's legisla­tive body, the essential char­acter of the University as a Catholic institute of higher 

. . ,, learning cannot be altered except by a concurrence of at least two-thirds of the Fellows. Furthermore, the president of Notre Dame will continue to be a Holy Cross Priest, nominated by the Pro­vincial Superior but appointed by the predominantly lay Board of Trustees. 
Father Kenna particularly stressed that Holy Cross Priests, while fewer in numbers proportionately on the Notre Dame faculty than in earlier years, will continue to contribute to the Uni­versity's development in teaching, re­search, administrative posts and pas­toral work. "Our community's aim," Father Kenna said, "is to give conti­nuity and stability of purpose and to insure the continued existence of an institution that is truly Catholic." 

Priestly Influence. Conjecture at this early point would seem to indicate that Holy Cross Priests now will ex­ercise an even more effective role in the University community. 
Their influence will be particularly felt in academic fields of theology and philosophy and, perhaps, most urgent­ly in their pastoral or apostolate role. It is in this latter relationship that per­haps Notre Dame priests in the past have become most famous and long remembered by Alumni. Their guid­ance and counseling in the past im­parted a personal concern about Notre Dame's students that made the Uni­versity known as a community of in­dividual young men and not mere numbers. 
The void of such personal guidance in many respects is at the base of to­day's student protest across the coun­try. Their front may be for free speech, or for academic freedom. Yet, their common quest is for individual recognition. 
The reorganization of the Univer­sity comes at a time of rene\val both within the world and the Church. "Every human institution," remarked Father Hesburgh, "must renew itself as it faces the new problems of each new age. Otherwise, it will develop or­ganizational arteriosclerosis." 
The history of Notre Dame, in fact, reflects a process of continual renew­al: the dropping of the Minims and the high school, the organization of the college structure, and the forma­tion of the graduate and professional schools. 
Notre Dame's president in review­ing these changes remarked, "There has always been here an element of risk and an abundance of faith. For­tunately, the Congregation of Holy Cross has risen to each new challenge, despite the risk and because of its faith. We have confidence that this will continue to be true in the chal­lenging years ahead of us." 
dressed the group and touched on 

STUDENT BODY many of the matters brought to the 

When the VP Came to Town 
All at once feathers started to fly, and more than a few imbelieveing "whatp's" were heard echoing down the halls of the Main Building. One week before January 16, the news began to spread tiiat Hubert Horatio Humphrey, vice-president of the United States, was coming to Notre Dame at the invitation of Student Government for an "exchange of views." 
Mr. Humphrey, who had scheduled a visit to Chicago's war-on-poverty centers for the previous day, accepted the Notre Dame invitation on rather short notice. So unexpected was his visit that the Universitj''s president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, was not on hand to greet the dis­tinguished visitor. Long range plans found Father Hesburgh in Los Angeles on January 16 addressing a meeting of Protestant college and university officials. Remarking on the situation, the Vice-President said: "I seem to meet Father Ted en route to Los Angeles all the time .. . he escaped me again .. . I want you to tell him next time to stay here. ... " 
The student officers arranged a schedule for the Vice-President that included only on-campus activities and left little time for local civic of­ficials to meet with the nation's num­ber two executive. This was in keep­ing with the nonpolitical nature of Mr. Humphrey's visit. However, Indi­ana Congressman John Brademas and South Bend mayor Lloyd M. Allen joined the Notre Dame wel­coming delegation at the St. Joseph County Airport. 
Selective distribution of the limited number of tickets prevented the ma­jority of the 7,000 students from meeting \vith their visitor. Only about 300 were on hand to witness Mr. Humphrey assume the role of the distinguished visiting professor of po­litical science during a panel discus­sion. 
The panel took the form of an in­troductory statement by Mr. Humph­rey followed by questions from the stu­dent-faculty panel and the audience. Included in the panel were: Dr. James Bogle, assistant professor of government and international studies and panel moderator; Dr. Jolm J. Kennedy, professor and head of the department of government and inter­national studies; Dr. William D'An­tonio, associate professor of sociology; James Wiser, Student Government academic commissioner; William Sta­szak. Student Government academic coordinator; and Robert Anson, edi­tor of the student newspaper. Ob­server. 
Setting the tone for the majority of his remarks, Vice-President Hum­phrey noted: "the vice-president does not initiate policy publicly, and seldom privately. . . . You express your views in die closed confines of the cabinet, the National Security Council and in personal relation­ships." During the ensuing question and answer period the Vice-President touched on subjects relative to the Johnson administration policies on "creative federalism," the war rai 
THE VICE-PRESroENT Distinguished visiting professor 
poverty, the Vietnam -wax, tension in Red China, American-Soviet relations, integration and multiple other do­mestic and world problems. 
Speaking on the question of secur­ing peace, Mr. Humphrey remarked that the quest for peace was eternal and "it is easier to change the face of the earth than it is to change peo­ple." Elaborating on this topic he added: "The Scripture says, 'Blessed are the peacemakers.' Not the peace pickets, not the peace walkers, not the peace pamphleteers — the peace­makers." Three students had staged an anti-war picket in front of the Center for Continuing Education dur­ing the Vice-President's arrival, but they received no publicity and were soon lost in die shuffle. 
Monday evening Mr. Humphrey was the honored guest at a private dinner at the Morris Inn given by the members of Student Government. The Vice-President informally ad­fore during the afternoon panel dis­cussion. 
Elaborate security precautions were effected during Mr. Humphrey's visit as campus, municipal and county law enforcement officers joined the Secret Service in lining the route from the airport to the campus and provided on-campus protection. Taking ad­vantage of the old adage, "make hay while the sun shines," a thief used this golden opportunity to rob a local bank of $8,000. Dut to the heavy concentration of security forces on the north side of town, virtually no police were in the south side area to interfere with the illegal withdrawal. 


Celebration on 640 and 610 
Plans for an "ugliest tie on campus" contest, a compilation of the 150 "Songs of All Time," and a sym­posium on the art of communica­tion might seem like an unrelated jumble of campus activities were they not representative of the multiple talents of the University's student radio. Yet, these and other plans ranging from the absurd to the serious are part of WSND's celebration of its 20th year as an independent radio station. 
Since its debut as the radio voice of Notre Dame students in 1947, the station has grown phenomenally, be­coming the largest student activity on campus. Entirely student o^vned and operated, the radio station broad­casts 24 hours a day during the aca­demic year. Two separate signals, WSND-AM and WSND-FM are transmitted from atop the tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall. AM broad­casts, aimed at the popular tastes of collie students, are transmitted di­rectiy to Notre Dame and St. Mary's, while WSND-FM transmits educa­tional and fine arts programming through the air to the South Bend area. Plans are currently under way for expansion of WSND-FM's power output and the installation of stereo equipment and facilities. Staff mem­bers have completed a proposal to obtain the necessary grant and are awaiting final approval by the ad­ministration. 
In addition to its request for im­proved facilities, WSND will mark its 20th year of broadcasting with a symposium, the "Art of Com­munication," to be held the weekend of February 24-25. The meeting will feature the participation of such out­standing leaders in the field of com­munications as Commissioner Robert 
E. Lee, chairman of the Federal Com­mimications Commission, and Rich­ard B. Hull, managing director of 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1W7 FEBRUARY 
THE VOICE OF 

An annivenaiy of service the Ohio State University telecmn­munications center. On the same weekend the station \vill present Henry Mancini in an anniversary concert staged in cooperation with the Stu­dent Government social conmiission. In a project not direcdy connected with the work of the radio station, WSND is sponsoring a coUecdon for "Classrooms in Vietnam" in coojjera­tion with Col. John Stephens of the Army ROTC.' 
Although the stadon is celebrating its 20th anniversary, its history dates to 1935 when the Notre Dame Radio Club presented dramatic, musical and campus news shows over South Bend station WSBT. World War II heavily curtailed the Radio Club, however, reducing it to almost total inactivity. Early in 1947, however, Frank Cro­nan, an electrical engineer from Waterbury, Conn., became its savior when he purchased a radio trans­mitter with the remaining cash in the club's treasury. From his room in Walsh Hall, Cronan and his friends, tagging themselves WND, started broadcasting somewhat sporadically to the campus, thereby marking the start of independent student radio at Notre Dame. 
Eventually Cronan was able to convince the administratoin of the worth of his venture by pointing out that advertising from local mer­chants could make hb embryo sta­tion self-supporting. Moving into the lonely and windy confines of the football stadium pressbox, Cronan and company were awarded a bounti­ful $300 grant and a promise of per­manent facilities. The new facilities were realized, of all places, in the 
NOTRE DAME 
to the ND community 

serious and consistent broadcasting. 
Originally, WND broadcasted two hours a day, five days a week. In­cluded in die original programming schedule was "RequestfuUy Yours," a show which to the present has been a campus favorite. In 1948 the sta­tion branched out of its studios to do remote broadcasts of home basketball and baseball games, Bengal Bouts, Mardi Gras events, proms and pep rallies. In 1953, the administration offered the station, then called WNDU, facilities in the newly con­structed O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
By early 1954, WNDU was nestied securely in the tower, sporting new studios and equipment, and sponsored partially by national advertising through the College Radio Corpora­tion. At this epic juncture WNDU was broadcasting 12 hours a day at 640 kilocycles. In May of 1955, the station officially became WSND with the advent of a commercial radio and television complex on campus which assumed the name WNDU. And in the following year, WSND joined the National Association of Collegiate Broadcasters. 
In 1959 Channel II, broadcasting 

classical music at 610 on the FM dial, 
was formed under the directirai of 
Thomas MuaaL Part of the whole 
stadon, but separate bam its AM as­
ter, ChamKl n came into its own 
in 1962 when it acquired an educa­
tional FCC license and was able to 
broadcast to the South Bend com­
munity as WSND-FM. It is currently 
broadcasting 13 hours each day with 
programming that rivals the best of 
the Midwest's FM staticHis. This is 
due at least in part to WSNI^s record 
library which has the distinction of 
being the largest in northern Indiana. 
In 1964 WSND jomed the Westing­iiouse news network and also sub­scribed to the American and European transcription sovices which provide a wide variety of educational programs. This year subscription to several tap­ing services, such as the Broadcasting Foundation of America, have added new dimensions to the programming cm WSND-FM. Each week during the season the station carries live broad­casts of the Metropolitan Opera from New York's Lincoln Center. 
Now in 1%7, under the direction of station manager Richard Madden, a senior in the College oi Business Ad­ministration, the stations have branched out to include live coverage of news events both on the campus and throu^out the nation. Included in this year's programming have been election night reports via Washington, broadcasting of die State of the Union address and coverage of all launchings of the Gemini spacecraft In January, the station carried the questicm and answer period between students and their guest, Vice-President Hubert H. Humphrey, thereby making available to the entire campus an event other­wise restricted to a limited audience. Both the AM and FM stations are supported solely by the sale of adver­tising on WSND-AM. Joindy, they employ 150 students worlung in 10 dif­ferent departments. Numerous former staff members have gone into profes­sional radio work giving substance to the station's aim of encouraging voca­tions in the broadcasting media. 
Notre Dame fieldhouse. By February  FRANK CRONAN and DICK MADDEN  
9,  1947,  WND  was  able  to  begin  20-year Evolution from Walsh to O'Shaughnessy Balls  
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY  

J. J. CARROLL '60 "Nice going. Marine." 



ALUMNI 
ill 400 
In the South Vietnamese province of Quang Tri, there is an outcropping of small pealvS known as the "Rock­pile." The individual hills are named for their altitude — Hill 363, Hill 400, Hill 484, J.J. Ridge. J.J. Ridge marks a height, too — the stature of a man. 
Capt. James Joseph Carroll, J.J., was a combat Marine. He had been in the Corps since his graduation from Notre Dame in 1960 and planned to make the Marines his life's work. And that's the way it turned out J.J. was killed October 5 when American tank artillery fell short and blasted his command post. 
Jim stood over six feet tall and a good part of his 200 pounds was muscle. A native of Miami Beach, he took to water sports naturally. A physical education major at the Uni­versity, Jim was a monogram swim­mer, winning acclaim in distance and diving. 
He and his ^vife Pauline had a young son, James Joseph III. His family was celebrating young Jim's first birthday in Rocky River, Ohio when the news came of his faher's death. 
The fight for the "Rockpile" had been waging between the Marines and the North Vietnamese Army reg­ulars since late summer. In Septem­ber, an all-out effort was ordered and the ridge became the focal point of "Operation Prairie." Kilo Company, Third Battalion, Fourth Marines, was ordered to take Hill 400. Command­ing the company was Captain Carroll. For more than three days Kilo Com­pany was in the vanguard of the fight for Hill 400. J.J. was the van­guard of Kilo Company. 
His action during the days of sus­t^e d battle earned J.J. Carroll a 
io 
nomination for the Navy Cross, the 
second highest decoration for gal­
lantry in battie. 
On October 5, less than a week later J.J. once again led his men up Hill 400. They were under orders to provide supporting fire for the Marines of Mike Company. The ob­jective was Hill 484, the strategic link in possession of the "Rockpile." Be­hind 400, American tanks set up an artillery barrage. Unknown to any­one it was to be the last day of that battle. By day's end, the North Viet­namese troops were routed and had taken refuge across the nearby De­militarized Zone. It was J.J.'s last day, too. 
Pouring rain hampered the Marines as Kilo Company began to soften up the objective with machine gun fire. Stripped to the waist, J.J. moved rapidly between positions exhorting his men to "keep those guns going." The tank force was under the same order. But one of the tank rounds fell short and scored a hit on Hill 400's command post. J.J. Carroll was killed instandy. 
In a war that has had minute-by­minute coverage from all the leading news media. Captain Carroll has more than once rated the attention of the correspondents. Senior Newsweek editor Amuad de Borchgrave filed an account of the battle for Hill 400 for publication October 10, less than a week after J.J.'s death. Written dur­ing the heat of the fight, Borchgrave's story is as much a portrait of a man as it is an account of the battle. "Capt 'Jay Ja/ Carroll sees me with­out a helmet He says he never wears one, unhooks his own from his belt and throws it to me. .. . I peer over my hole and spot four North Viet­namese Army troops crawling past no more than 50 feet below. I yell to Captain Carroll who is standmg up ramrod straight under heavy fire a few feet away . . . Carroll pulls the pin from a grenade and hurls it over my head, throws three more before going back to his radio. . . . Carroll says to one wounded man: "Nice go­ing. Marine. Sure appreciate what you did up there.'" 
H b men appreciated what J.J. did for them, too. They renamed Hill 400, the site of the most trying battle he'd led them in, J.J. Ridge in his honor. Artillery Plateau now bears his name. Camp J.J. Carroll. It is the most strat^cally located and armed groundbase in Vietnam. Tributes to 
J.J. have poured in — from the Presi­dent, from the correspondents, but mostly from the men with whom he fought "He was a leader wth that rare mixture — guts, grace and style," one of them wrote. That was TJ. CairolL 
VJS. Air Force 1st Lt. Michael E. Sexton of Portland, Ore. is an F-IOO Super Sabre fighter pilot assigned to the 352nd Fighter Squadron in Vietnam. A 1964 graduate of the University's de. partment of aeronautical engineering, Mike pves his personal account of just one mission in the air war over Southeast 
Asia.—^Editor, ALUMNUS. 
I T Started out like most other mis­
• sions — normal briefing, taxiing, arming and takeoff. The frag had us hitting a suspected Viet Cong concentration area; it looked like another routine flight After take­off we made our join-up, checked 
. each other over and then moved out to our spread formation. 
It ^vas a beautiful morning, the rising sun reflecting with brilliant in­tensity off the few scattered cumulus clouds, while down below search­light beams of sunlight were trying to penetrate the lower altitude's early morning haze. It was all so peaceful and serene; with the pan­oramic view and the soft purr of the F-IOO, you'd never believe a war was going on below. 
Shortiy after takeoff we contacted Combat Reporting Center (CRC) and the normalcy of the mission changed. We were instructed to divert from our fragged target. The controller read off our new Fonvard Air Controller's (FAC) call sign, frequency and rendezvous point. 
In a few minutes we switched to FAC frequency and entered an orbit above the target. Then the most agoniang minutes of the mission be­gan as we circled at altitude and listened to the fight rage below. felt a slight quickening of my pulse as it appeared friendly ground troops were in serious trouble. We were the third flight in orbit and another flight of F-lOO Super Sabres 

V^was already hitting the area. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 


Alumni Counsel 
In a record ballot return, Notre Dame Alumni this fall elected four new members to the University's Alumni Board of Directors. Beginning three year terms at the board's winter meeting held on campus Jan. 19-21, were Edward G. Cantwell '24, Ed­ward B. Fitzpatrick '54, John J. Reidy '27 and Leonard H. Skoglund Jr. '38. 
Cantwell, a graduate of the Uni­versity's College of Engineering, re­sides in Columbus, Ohio where he is chairman of the board of Cantwell Machinery Co. Fitzpatrick hails from New York City and is president of the Tartarus Construction Co. A grad­uate of the University's Law School in 1927, John Reidy is a member of 

"That's Why We're There" 
Listening to the FAC and strike pilots below, I knew the ground forces were in dire need of assistance. They were asking for the ordnance extremely close to their positions. On each pass the Army reported that the fighters were receiving heavy ground fire. Already one F-lOO had been shot down and the enemy seemed determined to get an­other. Hearing this, a feeling of ap­prehension crept over me. 
You know you've had the finest training in the world, and as a mem­ber of one of the most respected and competent fighter squadrons, the 352nd "Yellow Jackets", your train­ing has continued on after the for­mal schools. The constant contact you have had with the tremendous wealth of experience in the squad­ron has daily made you better and better. You know you are prepared, but like any other final exam that you have taken in life, there is always that unanswered question, 'T)id I really study as much as I could; is it possible that I missed something important that I v^dll need in order to pass?" 
Then you finally hear the call, "Yellow Jacket flight, you're cleared down." Suddenly the feeling of ap­prehension ceases, there is a job to be done and you are the best one for i t Now all that enters my mind is what comes over the radio and what can be seen. You listen intently to the FAC's description of the situa­tion, anxiously searching out all the colored smolce he describes that mark the positions of the friendly ground forces. You must know where they are, not one small platoon must be overlooked. The oblong north-south landing zone 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1947 FEBRUARY 
the Cleveland law firm of Falsgraf, 
Kundtz, Reidy and Shoup. And from 
LaGrange Park, 111., Skoglund is 
vice-president of Scully-Jones and 
Co., Chicago. 
At the same meeting, the board 

of directors announced the election of 
Ambrose F. "Bud" Dudley '43 as 
president of the Alumni Association. 
Bud, who is president of The Liberty 
Bowl and former director of athletics 
at Villanova University, succeeds Dr. 
Thos. P. Carney '37, Lake Forest, 111., 
as head of Notre Dame's 39,000 mem­
ber alumni organization. Carney, who 
is senior vice-president for research 
and development of G. D. Searle, 
Inc., Chicago pharmaceutical manu­
facturer, will serve as honorary pred« 
dent during the coming year. 
Completing their terms of ofiBce 



by u. Mike sexton '64 

(LZ) is your direction reference. The FAC gives the target elevation, direction of nearest friendlies and a run-in heading that must be adhered to with precise accuracy. You crank this heading into the top of the gyro compass for easy reference and will not release unless the heading indi­cator is pointing straight up. You've made one orbit and have tiie propter spacing on lead. He calls in and you position yourself to follow at a certain interval. The FAC has marked the target with a white smoke rocket. It looks like it is right on top of one of the many colored columns of smoke that dot the area. Lead pulls off, then the flash of the 500-pound bomb, right on the white smoke. You're in; the FAC calls for 10 meters short of the last bomb 
— the Army needs it closer. 
Now your whole world is air speed, dive angle, altitude and pip-per (indicator) position. They must all be exacdy on, there is no mar­gin for error. Your mind cross­checks them a million times in the brief few moments on final. The pipper is coining up nicely to the with the Alumni Board were W. Lan­caster Smith '50, honcMraiy president in 1966, Bertrand D. Cou^lin MD '26, WiUiam V. Cuddy '52, and Her­bert M. Sampson '50. 

ACADEME Science and Society 
With an eye to the future, Notre Dame's Colli e of Science has under­taken an unique undergraduate lec­ture series. Inaugurated just over a year ago the Ciiallenges in Science meetings have brought to the campus some of the world's most renowned men of science. Reviews of their ac­cc«nplishments in the sciences and related fields, however, are not the 
desired impact point, ^ speed and dive angle are good, the altimeter is rapidly imwinding and approach­ing that one millisecond of time that it will be exacdy at the proper release altitude. You feel a slight thump, almost automatically as your right thumb has pickled oS the bomb when the altimeter flashed by the proper reading. You pull back hard on the stick and six G's force you hard against the seat. The anti-gravity suit constricts your body in an attempt to prevent the blood from rushing from your upper body and causing blackout The nose of your Super Sabre is above the hori­zon and you bank sharply to the left then back to the right in an evasive maneuver. You crane your neck around to look for the bomb burst for you can't tell immediately where it landed. Then the most wonderful words in the world crane over the UHF radio, "Good hamh two, right where the Army wanted it" You have done it, die bomb impacted on target and your capa­bility has been proven. A tremen­dous sense of reUef comes over you like a weight being lifted. 
The relief and flow of pride are brief, other bombs must be dropped but a new confidence is evident. Three more times you dive down that narrow corridor, only vaguely aware of your increased vulnerabil­ity on each succeeding pass. 
Later you learn that your mission was in support of Operation Attie­boro, the largest United States op­eration in the war. But the most important thing is that in the execu­tion of your mission many friendly lives were saved. This is what you are here for and today you know your mission capabilities were fiilly utilized. j 
n 
GEORGE BEADLE EDWARD TELLER Challenge Today's Young Scientists 
primary concern of this series. Rather, 
the lecturers delve into problems that 
will confront society in die future 
with a view toward exploring the 
contributing or effacing roles science 
can play in these challenges. 
Inaugurated just over a year ago 
with a keynote lecture by Notre 
Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. 
Hesburgh CSC, Challenges in Science 
has become one of die finest lecture 
series for undergraduates in the 
country. Such presdgious persons as 
Dr. Linus Pauling, Nobel Laureate in 
Chemistry and Peace, Dr. Andrew 
Crewe, director of the Argonne Na­
tional Laborator)', and Dr. Charles 
C. Price, head of die department of chemistry of the University of Penn­sylvania, have met -with ND faculty and students. 
Sponsored by the College of Science and supported by funds from the Arthur J. Schmitt Foundation of Chi­cago, the lectures are open to all members of the academic community. The series is administered by a joint committee of members of the Council of the College of Science, which in­cludes the deans and heads of depart­ments wthin the College, and the Student Science Council. Speakers are chosen from nominations submit­ted by members of the councils. 

Scheduled to speak February 6 is Dr. Edward Teller, professor-at-large at the University of California and nuclear physicist. One of the de­velopers of the first atomic bomb and a leading contributor to the design of the first hydrogen bomb. Dr. Teller \vill explore the challenges of "Atomic Energy." Nobel Laureate in physi­ology and medicine. Dr. George Beadle will be the series' invited lec­turer on March 20. The president of the Universit)' of Chicago will speak on "Genes, Mind and Man." 
A unique aspect of Challenges in Science is its emphasis on including among the year's speakers tivo mem­bers of the University's science faculty. The purpose in so doing, says Dr. Emil T. Hofman, assistant dean and associate professor of chemistry and 
coordinator of the series, is to enable 
members of the College of Science 
to learn of the research and work 
fostered within their own imiversity. 
In November, Dr. George B. Craig 
Jr., professor of biology and researcher 
in mosquito genetics, discussed new 
approaches to ancient problems in 
vector borne disease. 
Furthering the notion of self-knowl­edge within the community, the lec­ture series includes aimually the ap­pearance of Dr. Rossini, dean of the College of Science, as the season's last speaker of the year. Dr. Rossini wU close the series on April 17 with an evaluation, "How the College of Science of the University of Notre Dame is Answering the Challenges in Science." 
The format of the individual ses­sions is another distinctive feature of the series. Prior to the evening meet­ings, the guest speaker is entertained at dinner by members of the college and student councils to acquaint him with the science community and its leading members. Following the formal talk, the floor is opened to a question and answer period. In an effort to foster good student-faculty relations based on intellectual activity, a regularly scheduled informal gather­ing is an integral part of each lecture. Here students are free to meet with the lecturer for further questions or general discussions, or to engage in e.\change of views with faculty mem­bers. 


Philosophical Inquiry 
An individual honor ^vill be accorded Notre Dame in March when the American Catholic Philosophical As­sociation gathers for its annual meet­ing. Only twice in the 41-year his­tory of the Association has the academically oriented group met on a university campus. 
Over 500 priests, nuns, and Cath­olic and non-Catholic laymen will converge on the University, March 
REV. ERNAN McMULLIN Hosts Catholic Philosophers 
27, for a three-day probe into the 
nature of philosophical inquiry. Un­
der the direction of Rev. Eman Mc-
MuUin, head of Notre Dame's phi­
losophy department and president of 

the Association, leading Catholic edu­
cators and authors will engage in an 
intensive examination of the multiple 
branches of philosophical study. 
Referring to the program of events 

for the meeting. Dr. John A. Oesterle, 
associate professor of philosophy, 
noted the emphasis placed on aca-

Concepts of Academe: A REPLY 

The ALUMNUS feature on "Concepts of Academe" in the November-De­cember issue prompted several replies, mostly by older Alumni and mostly favoring the "teaching' view ex­pressed by Prof. Edward F. Cronin. r/ze ALUMNUS takes pleasure in pre­senting herewith one such view and hopes thhat these remarks will en­courage additional opinions — Editor, ALUMNUS. 
bwF* CHoehreiter *3S 
THE Cronin-Massey dialogue on ' "Concepts of Academe" prompts me to comment. Hopefully, other readers wU have opinions which may be shared through ALUMNUS columns. 
If it were not for my personal exposure as a student at Notre Dame, Columbia, and Chicago, as a member of the graduate faculty at St. Louis, and part-time faculty at the College of Notre Dame of Maryland, and Baltimore Junior College, I might be considered more than a littie presumptuous in what I am about. A distinction could be draNvn between undergraduate and graduate study, but in my opinion the teacher who does not teach is an academic liability in both settings. 
I was struck first by the obvious —^Prof. Cronin wrote out of the depths of his own feelings and long experi­ence; Prof. Massey computerized the positions of other "publishers" and adapted their statements to his own point of view. (Cronin required no bibliography; Massey leaned heavily on his eight citations.) It is the usual mark of the "publisher"—the employ­ing of footnote and bibliography. Coimtless journal articles have put me to sleep as I tried to keep up wth "who said what about anything." How refreshing it is to find an author 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
demic sessions. Dr. Oesterle, presi­
dent of the Association in 1964-65, 
chairmans the local committee com­
posed of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
faculty members who have arranged 
for a schedule of panels, symposiums 
and discussions to delve into such 
diversified topics as metaphysics and 
philosophical psychology. 
The morning plenary sessions will 
be devoted to the examination of the 
nature of philosophical inquiry, a 
question of increasing importance to 

who has sufficient to say on his own initiative that he does not require the repetitious mumblings of others as multiple crutches. 
Prof. Cronin's use of the term r«earch reminded me of my own discipline's interpretation of the term recreation. And, it was like a spring breeze to learn that ND still has a professor who READS his students' papers and attempts to help them "create" in the written and oral form. Believe me, as I have read undergraduate and graduate papers and examinations, I have often won­dered what happened to the funda­mental process of speaking and writing simple, good grammar, not to men­tion the ability to engage in logical thinking. 
It would be interesting if the late Cardinal Newman could enter the dialogue since both authors found him worthy of reference. As Prof. Cronin quoted the Rev. Leo "Literary" Ward, so I would like to call to memory fine ND professors of past years, such as Rev. Thomas Brennan, Rev. Raymond Murray, Thomas Madden, Louis Buckley, Devere Plunkett and many others too numer­ous to mention who were truly teach­ers in the Newman sense of the word. 
There is a principle in social wel­fare which says that the most skilled social worker should be used for In­take since this is the first exposure of the client to the agency's service. I believe there is an analogy to be found with the college freshman, the freshman lawyer, the freshman doctor, the freshman dentist, etc. He deserves the best the college or university has to offer because, as the first exposure to the academic or professional milieu is formulated, the refinement of the experience will be either beautifully honed or horribly distorted. 
The Cronin example of the re­searcher and the physician is superb in its simplicity. Let the researcher work in his laboratory, be it with test tube or pen. Let him turn out the best of his talents, BUT let the artisan. 
the Catholic philosopher in light of the gradual deemphasis on Thomism. During these meetings selected schol­ars will offer multiple views on the modes of inquiry through the presen­tation of papers and panel discus­sions. Afternoon sessions will find the delegates attending meetings relevant to their special fields of inquiry or interest. Topics scheduled for inten­sive discussion include history of phi­losophy, ethics, and the philosophies of religion and nature, as well as 
CRONIN 

metaphysics and philosophical psy­chology. 
One highlight of the three-day meeting mil be the presentation of the Aquinas-Spelhnan Award to Rev. Martin D'Arcy SJ. The coveted hon­or which has been awarded on fewer than 10 occasions during the entire history of the Association, will be be­stowed upon the internationally known English author and teacher in recognition of his outstanding scholar­ship and teaching abilides. 
MASSEY 

HOCHREITER 
be he physician, lawyer, architect, engineer, or teacher, take what he will from the researcher's findings and apply it in his day-to-day contact with the human beings in the com­munity who are his clientele. There is a place for both—^let each stay in his place, except for that occasional "giant" mentioned by Prof. Cronin who finds it possible to wear two hats, if not simultaneously, then in quick exchange. 
The teacher who does not or can­not teach, regardless of his mono­graphs, is a worthless artisan. His increases in salary, his promotions along the professorial track, his academic plaudits are vapid and grounded in fraud. The teacher who truly teaches, but who is hounded by the administration because he does not publish, is the true hero of the piece. Should he be passed over in tenure, rank, or salary, it is to the discredit of the institution of higher learning, which is so busy with its own little microcosm of alleged im­portance, that it misses the macrocosm for which it was created and chartered. 
Prof. Massey writes off, with gende sarcasm, the historical concept of the university—"a corporate body whose principal function is teaching." He would substitute "scholarly and scien­tific activity of the faculty" for "edu­cation of the intellect." He considers such faculty development the primary business of a university, and "not .. . a secondary and questionable acdvity ancillary to teaching." He is even naive enough to suggest that "it is now teaching that needs justificadon in a university." 
Running the risk of seeming too personal, may I suggest that not all college and university students are so happily endowed as Prof. Massey. For students of his intellectual statiure, possibly teachers in the old definition and universities in the old tradition are unnecessary. Unfortunately, I am afraid Professor Massey is out of touch with reality. The average young man and young woman goes to an insti­tution of higher learning T O BE TAUGHT and to benefit from the intellectual stimulation of the most intellectual educator. This implies more than a mere sitting at the feet of the oracle and learning. As I said in the beginning, a teacher who does not teach is an academic liability. I might add that I have sufFereid with such "liabilities" in several insti­tutions of higher learning, and I be­grudged every tuition dollar spent. 
Prof. Massey says that universities which do not exemplify the research concept are perpetrating a fraud. I hold that the university which does not exemplify the concept of teach­ing is guilty of fraud and is stealing hard-earned tuition money from the great majority of its students. 
Let the college and the university continue to be, or return to the con­cept of being, an institution of teach­ing and learning so that our hundreds of thousands of yoimg men and young women may see in their degrees a representation of a meanin^ul ex­perience which prepared them for the fuU life. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
Await Decision 
Sponsoring the Notre Dame site is dean and staff and launch construc­the Northern Indiana Committee for tion in 2J4 years. Notre Dame's hopes of locating a Higher Education. In its bill the Thus far, the medical school site state-owned medical school adjacent citizens group has proposed that the has proven to be one of the hottest to the University's campus now lay Indiana University trustees lease the battles of the 1967 Legislature. Be­before the 1967 Indiana General As­site offered by Notre Dame and per­cause it is such a top political issue sembly. mit agreements between the state and because no one geographical area Between now and March 3, the school and other institutions for co­can muster enough votes to capture Hoosier Legislature is to decide the operative employment of administra­the location, there is some specula­location of the medical facilitj'. More tors and staff. Both the House and tion as to whether the issue will even than four cities are in contentioHj Senate bills supporting the South be decided in this assembly. The next 
Bend site would provide $750,000 to Indiana assembly will not convene among them South Bend, Muncie, 
pay for a second 

Evansville and Gary. 
Midyear Graduation 
Although the University traditionally holds no midyear commencement exercises, about 75 undergraduates com­pleted requirements for their bachelor's degrees in Jan­uary. Most uill return in June for the official conferring of their degrees except for a small number of them who will be unable to be on hand. These are the 11 ROTC graduates who were commissioned Jan. 27. The ma­jority of these men soon will begin active duty in their respective branches of the military services. Major Gen­eral Earle Fremont Cooke, US Army (Ret.), addressed the newly commissioned lieutenants in ceremonies in the Center for Continuing Education. Gen. Cooke was 19th chief signal officer for the Army prior to his voluntary retirement in 1963. On hand to receive their commis­sions were eight representatives from the Army ROTC, two Naval cadets and one Air Force candidate. Dedicate New Post Office Lincoln's birthday at Notre Dame this year literally will 
be observed as a postman's holiday when government and University officials join in dedicating Notre Dame's modem new post office. Located immediately north of the Center for Continuing Education, the one-story, buff-brick structure will serve the growing 9,000-member community with the latest in mail service innovations that include separate service and bo.x lobbies, air condi­tioning, bank-type counters and modem stamp vending machines. Assistant postmaster general for personnel, Richard Murphy, together with other local and national government figures will be on hand for the February 12 ceremonies. Following the afternoon dedicatory program. University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC will bless the building. Notre Dame's postmaster since 1962 is Brodier EU Pelchat CSC. Inventiveness That "necessity is the mother of invention" has been demonstrated once again by two scientists in the Uni­versity's Radiation Lab. The need for an apparatus to generate an electric arc of very short duration prompted Dr. Peter K. Ludwig, research scientist in chemistry, and his former Radiation Lab colleague, Juan T. D'Alession, now of Buenos Aires, to set to work on the design of a new generating mechanism. The results of their labors have been rewarded by the announcement of the Chicago operations office of the US Atomic Energy Commission that their mercury-wetted fixed electrode electric arc generator has been granted a US patent. The two scientists, who constructed several test models of their generator in the shops of the Radiation Lab, filed claim for the patent in June, 1965. Accord­ing to informed sources, their invention generates elec­tric arcs by means of discharging an electric current between mercury-wetted electrodes in a pressurized gas. 
U 
 school, employ a until 1969, 





Topside Briefs 
Irish Playboy 

The curtain is again set to rise over the third produc­tion of the combined Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre. The first two weekends in February will bring to the Washington Hall stage John Millington Synge's "The Playboy of the Western World." The Irish comedy, which takes place in a pub, stars freshman Robert Allen in the title role of Christy Mahon. Veteran Terry Francke will handle the role of Michael James, father of Pegeen Mike played by Judy Muench. Marcella Lyny^ and Tom Haley round out the supporting roles in a cast that includes over a dozen students. Directing the production will be Dennis J. Hayes, assistant pro­fessor in the drama department, while fellow faculty member, Charles P. Lehman, designed the sets. Scholaiship for Future Superintendents In keeping with recent studies and consequent emphasis on the betterment of parochial education, the Univer­sity has announced the creation of a doctoral scholar­ship for fiersons preparing to become superintendents of Catholic school systems. The $2,000 award is in honor of the late Msgr. Frederick G. Hochwalt, execu­tive secretary of the National Catholic Educational Associaticm from 1944 until his death this past summer. Available to priests and laymen alike, the scholarship stipulates only that the recipient be in his first year of doctoral studies beyond the master's degree with an aim toward a future in Catholic school administration. Dr. James Michael Lee, head of the department of educa­tion which will select the recipient of the award, believes that the scholarship "should prove to be of significant assistance to the American hierarchy in its efforts to develop the future leaders of American Catholic edu­cation." Nominations for the scholarship were open through the bishops or their diocesan superintendents' offices. The winner of the Hochwalt Memorial Scholar­ship will be announced in early March. 
Singers Head West Heeding- the call to "go West" the Notre Dame Glee Club is once again setting off in March for their second visit this year to the West Coast. Early in September the Glee Clubbers flew to California to tape a segment on the Andy Williams' show which was aired in No­vember. Their hectic schedule at that time permitted no concert dates. But the spring tour offers West Coast Alumni several opportunities to hear the Glee Club first­hand. From March 22-25 they will entertain in the Denver area before heading to San Francisco for a five-day program in the Bay area. The first week of April will find the vocalists dividing their time bet\veen Los Angeles and Phoenix, Arizona. Lest the East feel neglected, the University singers have scheduled their spring premier for March 5 and 6 in Cleveland. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1947 FEBRUARY 


Bandsmen to Tour Northeast 
As thousands of students begin the spring exodus to fun in the sun, the University Band is girding itself for its annual spring concert tour. This year the bandsmen have scheduled a 3,500-mile jaunt through the North­eastern US and into Canada. A look at the itinery finds the Concert Band in Fair Haven, N.J., Mar. 26; Flemington, N.J., Mar. 27; Lyndhurst, N.J., Mar. 28; Newark, N.J., Mar. 29; New York City (Hunter Col­lege) Mar. 30; Albany, N.Y., Mar. 31; Lewiston, Me., Apr. 1; Montreal, Canada, Apr. 2-3; Port Byron, N.Y., Apr. 4; Buffalo, N.Y., Apr. 5. The Band will conclude their. season with die spring concert at Notre Dame on April 7. 
Sounding Board for Christian Thought 
Christened the Christian Activist (later changed to Dialogue to prevent possible distortion of intent) a new student magazine appeared on campus in October. Its editorial raison d'etre is based on the need for dialogue in a Christian's search for his faith: "We must speak out so that others might hear and we might listen. Our actions must have a mouthpiece and our voices should prompt action." Under the editorship of senior John 
H. Davis, the magazine offers a medium for the dis­cussion of any aspect of Christian life from prayer to the racial question. The format of the monthly consists of articles contributed by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community and reprints from leading magazines, and welcomes the challenge of criticism and debate. Al­though only three issues old. Dialogue has reached a circulation of over 750 copies and is being distributed to several Newman Clubs across the country. High-Flying Scholars Annually placing a high number of cadets in the top ranks of nationwide competition, the University's AFROTC unit has expectations of doubling its scholar­ship winners in the coming year. The Air Force's an­nouncement of a sizeable increase in scholarships avail­able prompted Lt. Col. John Abbott, education officer for AFROTC at Notre Dame, to estimate that the number of cadets holding scholarships could reach 50 or 60. He noted that the 20 junior scholarship holders would in all likelihood retain their a^vards and that an equal number of this year's sophomores could be expected to qualify for the coming year. Scholastic records indicate that the addition of at least 10 second-year students to the scholarship ranks could be e.xpected. The scholarships, which pay tuition fees and lab and book costs, are awarded on the basis of the student's cumulative grade point average, his score on the Air Force Officers Qualifying Test, the recommendation of the University's review board, and a dossier of the can­didate's extracurricular activities. Spring and Fall Pilgrimages Mindful of the age-old tradition of visits to religious shrines, the Holy Cross Fathers have arranged two jet-age pilgrimages to Europe. On March 13 members and friends of the Holy Cross Association embark for a three-week tour of Italy, France, Germany and Switzerland. Under the spiritual direction of Rev. Wil­liam McAuliffe CSC '37 the tour promises Holy Week services in Rome and a highlight visit to Lourdes. On the agenda for October is a pilgrimage to Portugal for the 50th-anniversary celebrations of Our Lady's ap­parition at Fatima. Rev. John Wilson CSC '32, asso­ciate director of vocations for the Congregation's Indi­ana province, will lead pilgrims through a 21-day trans-Europe tour which will include stops at Rome, London and Lourdes. Further information on either pilgrimage can be obtained by addressing the priests at Notre Dame, Ind. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY \967 FEBRUARY 


All for tho TaiM Being 
The temporarily vacated chairmanship of the depart­ment of civil engineering has been filled by Dr. Bruce Schimming. An assistant professor within the depart­ment. Dr. Schimming was named acting department head to replace Dr. Hairy C. Saxe who is currently serving as acting dean of the College of Engineering. A graduate of Northwestern, Dr. Schunming holds three degrees, including his doctorate, firom that university. A specialist in soU mechanics, he has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1963. This is Dr. Schimming's second appointment as acting department head in which capacity he also served from September, 1965 to August, 1966. 
To Better the Written Word 
Future O. Henrys are being given the opportunity to . prove the effectiveness of their pens during a series of short story seminars being conducted at the Uni­versity. Under the direction of Richard Sullivan, pro­fessor of English and himself an accomplished, well-known writer, the seminars are intended to "draw some general notions about what makes for the good, sound, real writing of fiction." Scheduled to meet twice weekly from January through May, the 25 enrollees are en­gaged in the \vriting and criticism of their o\vn works. Although meeting at the Center for Continuing Educa­tion, the seminars are not primarily sponsored by the University. Initiated by members of the South Bend Writers' Club the seminars represent a communal shar­ing of talent and facilities between the University and 
neighboring communities. 
Change of Controllership 
An 18-year tenure of service to Notre Dame was ended in December when G. Ed\vard Hartvood stepped down from the post of University controller. Joining the staff in 1948 Harwood served as director of ac­counting for four years before assuming the controller-ship. During his tenure the University experienced the greatest period of growth and development in its history. Hanvood was responsible for the installation of the present operations budgetary system which an­nually exceeds $30 milUon. As a parting token Notre Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, presented Mr. and Mrs. Harwood \n\h roimd-trip air tickets to London. A native of England, Hanvood at­tended London University and Sandhurst. With news of Mr. Harwood's retirement came that of the appwint­ment of Dr. Richard M. Lynch to the position of con­troller. Dr. Lynch, who has been on the staff since 1964 as assistant controller, holds a doctorate in business administration from Harvard and has been teaching a course in management accounting at the University. He is also the author of a just published textbook. 
Accounting for Management Planning and Control. 
Appoint Administrative Aide 
The increasing complexities of administering the mod­em university frequentiy have demanded the creation of new administrative offices. In Decemljer Notre Dame's executive vice-president. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, announced the appointment of John F. Plouff '38 to the newly created office of his adminis­trative assistant. Although he has been in managerial positions with Sinclair Refining Co. for the past 14 years, Plouff is no stranger to University administra­tion. A graduate of the College of Business Adminis­tration, he joined the University's staff in that year and served in various positions until 1952. At the time of his departure from Notre Dame Plouff was assistant to the vice-president for business affairs. Returning wth Plouff to Notre Dame are his wife, the former Marie O'Connor, and their four children. 
15 


Classes 

Maclnnes '53 Mrs. Boland Birder '50 Donovan '58, McShane '61 and Miller '56 
JOHN MACINNES—Ur MISSIONART 
John Maclnnes '53 was a lay mission volunteer in the Diocese of Fort Portal, Northern Uganda where he taught for three years in the African Seminary. In early November he was busily preparing his students for the government exams while, personally, he was making arrangements for his first home visit in three years. His plans were altered, as suddenly he was stricken with an unknown fever or virus. On November 9, near mid­night, John died. 
The lay teacher became interested in the African missions when his brother. Rev. George Maclnnes CSC '36, was assigned to the Fort Portal Diocese. Deciding to join his brother, John trained for a year with the Lay Mission Helpers of Los Angeles before leaving for his first assignment at the Africa n Seminary in Northern Uganda. Primarily a teacher, John's accomplishments extended far beyond the classroom. He was personally instrumental in raising funds for the expansion of the Seminary library. Today it ranks as one of the finest school libraries in Uganda. 
Just prior to his death John had expressed a desire to dedicate his life to the teaching of African clergy, and already had made plans to return to Uganda after the holidays. The lay missioner is now buried in the Fort Portal Cathedral along side the priests and sisters who pioneered the mission. 
DEATH CLAIMS MRS. JOE BOLAND 
Mrs. Margaret {Vsg) Boland, widow of the late Joseph M. Boland '27, died Dec 23 in South Bend. Peg Boland, who was \videly known by Notre Dame people, met her late husband in Minneapolis when he was recuperating from a broken leg suf­fered in the ND-Minnesota football game. While he coached at Notre Dame and during the popular ex­pansion of his influence through radio and television as a sportscaster. Peg Boland was a welcome and inspira­tional part of the Boland world. 
Mrs. Boland also served the Uni­versity as its liaison with South Bend residents who rented rooms to off-campus students and at the time of her death was on the staff of the Memorial Library. In addition, Mrs. Boland wrote articles and several books including Joe Boland, Notre Dame Man; Valiant Woman; and Don't Panic, Mother. Peg Boland was buried from Sacred Heart Church on the campus. Joe's brother. Rev. James A. Boland, was celebrant of the Mass and Rev. Louis J. Thornton CSC gave the eulogy. Two children survive: Joseph M. Jr. '59 of Mil­waukee and Margaret of Chicago. 
"AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY ... " 
For the world of sports fans Nov. 19, was the day of "the game." But for the May family of Racine, Wis. all attention was turned to daughter Kathleen's wedding. Well, just about all attention. 
Perturbed over having to miss the first half of the ND-MSU game, the bride's brothers, Tom '55 and John '61, declared where their loyalties lay. Painting a bright green "Go ND" on the soles of their new unsuspecting brother-in-laVs shoes the two Irish fans registered a silent cheer for the team. Gilbert Niesen and bride later relented to the pleas of ND fans in attendance and, following Mass, con­ceded the wedding cake's place of honor to a portable TV. 
The humorous incident rated front­page space in the following morning's Sunday Bulletin. The picture, ap­propriately captioned, read "Notre Dame (Wedding) Ties." 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

U 
FROM THE TOP OF THE WORLD . . . 
Dudley Birder '50 and '52 is a mu­sician whose ambition and ability have carried him to the top — to the top of the world, that is. In September he conducted the St. Norbert's Col­lege Chamber Singers on a month long, 17,000-mile USO tour which took them to the far reaches of the US Northeast Military Command in Greenland, Labrador, Iceland, New­foundland and BaiBn Island. 
Such ambitious undertakings are not unusual for Dud who set out to make musical history at St. Norbert's in De Pere, Wis. shortly after he joined the faculty in 1958. Within a year he founded the Chamber Sing­ers, was directing the annual musical, and was occupying his summers as 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19.57 FEBRUARY 
musical director of the Green Bay Music Theatre. 
The Chamber Singers are a small, select group of six boys and seven co-eds whose talents must be versatile as well as outstanding. When Rev. Joseph Dorff, O. Praem, research psy­chologist, artist and singer, reported that he was going to join the USO tour, he was greeted wth: "I'm go­ing to play the piano during the tour. What would you like to do — dance or play the drums?" Testimony to the insistence on cKcellence and par­ticipation imposed by Dud was Father's regular position as tour per­cussionist. In addition, 11 of the mem­bers of the choral group played vari­ous instruments and served as ac­companyists during parts of the show. 
The collegiate entertainers, who spent more than a month of their summer vacation engaged in rehear­sals, prepared a repertoire that in­cluded more than four hours of ma­terial ranging from show times to folk songs to semiclassical pieces and re­ligious numbers. The singers were so well received by the men stationed at the bases visited that they were encour^ed to extend their stay in Greenland for an e.xtra few days. 
Speaking of the effects of the tour Dudley said: "The trip far exceeded my anticipation, it was much more, really, that we thought it would be. The concerts we gave were greatly • needed by many of the stations, since some are completely isolated for from four to six months." The students benefitted as well with many of them experiencing for the first time the broadening experiences of travel and the full meaning of serving one's country. 
Dudley, who received both his bachelor's and master's in music from Notre Dame, followed in his father's footsteps. His father Cecil was a graduate of the Class of '14 and was on the faculty of the music depart­ment of the Universit)'. Dud was an instructor here in music from 1953 to 1954. He and his wife, the former Mary Barany, and five children now reside at 503 N. Michigan Street in De Pere. 
.. . TO THE WORID'S lAST FRONTIER 

An ex-officio Notre Dame Club of Antarctica has been founded by three Alumni who claim to be the Uni­versity's only representatives on the polar continent. 
Navy Lt Lawrence Donovan '58, Lt (jg) Mark McShane '61 and Lt. Cmdr. Robert Miller '56 are stationed with the Navy Engineer Corps at McMurdo Station on "the world's last frontier." All avid football fans they were able to follow part of the season's schedule over the Armed Forces Radio and TV service and received scores of the other games from ham radio operators in the US. 
Larry Donovan, who has logged over 14 months at the station, is ofBcer-in-charge of the Navy's only shore-based nuclear power plant. Mark McShane is the assistant ofiBcer­in-charge of the 130-man Naval Construction Battalion whose mission is to provide all new construction in support of the US Antarctic Research Program. And Bob Miller, a graduate of the University's department of civil engineering, is the public works officer at McMurdo in charge of mainte­nance and operation of utilities, build­ings and roads. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Xfiss Patricia Roedcr and PAUL V. HORNUNG '57. Miss Kathleen McGrogan and PETER D. RO­BERSON '58. Miss Ellen Chapman and WILLIAM REILLY JR. '59. Miss Frances Earle Wood and KEITH K. iL^LCOLM '60. Miss Martha Frances Minchan and RICHARD B. PAGEN '60. Miss Ellen Sue Rice and WILLIAM C. POT­TER JR. '60. Miss Madeleine Sheehan Dc\'aney and WIL­LIAM HENRY CHOQUETTE '62. Miss DcAnn Jensen and D.AVID M. CON­STANTINO '62, '65L. Miss Rachel Fl>-nn and ROBERT tt^MILTON JR. '62. Miss Janice Elaine Nowacki and RANDY A. KIENSTRA '64. Miss Valerie Ann Quant and JOSEPH J. SPER­BER '64. Miss Anne D. Sarage and ALEX.ANDER D. VanEYCK '64. Mss Kathleen Maria Bayer and JAMES PHILIP H.\RNISCH '65. Miss Katherinc Ann Weismann and WILLIA^t M. MAROHN '65. Miss Christine Curry and GEORGE C. AD.\MS '66. Miss Terry Lynn Worcester and JOHN JO­SEPH CROWLEY JR. '66. -Miss Jane O'Rourke and NATHANIEL J. D.AVIS '66. Miss Gail Marie Hagerty and GARY R. HEDIGER '66. Miss Mary Louise Waldvogd and JOHN P. KUMINECZ '66. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Patricia Danielson and DIMITRI L, GLOSS MA '56, Notre Dame, Dec. 17. Miss Eileen O'Donnell and DONALD B. REILLY '58, Nov. 12. Miss Roberta Ann Flvnn and JOHN J. UEB­BING '59, Palo Alto, Calif., Nov. 26. Mis Constance Rogers and GREGORY S. ARMSTRONG '60, Fresno, Calif., Nov. 19. Miss Joan Marie lanni and PETER ELIAS SAYOUR '60, Brooklyn, Oct. 9. 




reunoon 
... will surely bring all eleven a running to hear the pickin' and strummin' June 9, 10 and 11 back on campus. The illustrious ten 
plus one include the 50-Year Club and the classes of '17, '22, '27, '32, '37, '42, '47, '52, '57 and '62. Make your plans now to join your friends and classmates the second weekend in June and, too, don't forget your own fiddle! 
KHss Jane Ellen O'Brien and THOMAS E. COLLETON JR. '62, South Orange, N.J., Nov. 12. 
Miss Leslie Alien Lippincott and RICHARD J. RIORDAN '63, Upper Montclair, N.J., Oct. 29. Miss Iklary Ellen Mrozinski and RONALD W. 
VETTEL '63, '66 L, South Bend, Dec. 17. Miss Kathryn Pilot and JOHN P. KINTZ '« , Notre Dame, Nov. 25. Miss Elizabeth Knecht and JAMES J. NORRIS '64, Notre Dame, De c 17. Miss MARY ANN BOYLE MS '65 and WilUam Edward Bodden, Rochester, N.Y., Nov. 24. Miss Marcia Lynn Alorrison and JOSEPH R. YADOUGA '65, South Bend, Nov, 5. 
Miss Jill Anne Longstreet and STEPHEN FRANCIS BALL '66, Notre Dame, Nov. 26. Miss Diane Lois Trensey and D.\VID THOMAS 
B.ASSO '66, South Bend, De c 31. 
Miss Barbara Ellen Crawe and SAMUEL J. BERNARDI JR. '66 L, Notre Dame, Nov. 26. Miss Pamela Pagano and JAMES PATRICK 
COONEY '66. Miss Justine Theresa Banicki and FILVNCIS H. SHEEHAN '66, Notre Dame, De c 26. Miss Jane Ann Zom and AIICHAEL JOHN DANCH '67, South Bend, Nov. 5. 
BIRTHS 

Mir. and Mrs. JAMES PURCELL '42, a ton, Gregory James, July 6. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. CA&IPBELL '54, a daughter, Ann Marie, Nov. 25. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES GULDE '55, a ion, Anthony John, Nov. 22. Mr. and Mis. RAYMOND D. BECHAMPS '57, a daughter, Afichelle Surgent, Nov. 14. 
Dr. and Mrs. HERBERT R. MOELLER '60, twins, Mark Genml and Pamela Ann, Oct. 17. Mr. and Mrs. WILLL\M C. WEINSHEIMER 
'62, a son, William C. Jr., Sept. 25. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT K. MATURI '63, a son, Darren Alfred, Nov. 20. Mr. and Mis. R. PATRICK STRICKLER '6S, a son, John Patrick, Nov. 26. 
SYMPATHY 

JOSEPH A. TANSEY '15 on the death of Us wife and FRED '48 and JAMES '50 on the death of their mother, Nov. 19. 
HAROLD KOHLMAN '35 on the death of his father, Nov. 29. FRANCIS J. MILLIGAN '45 on the death of his father, Dec. 5. JOHN C. NOONAN '47 on the death of his father, Nov. 20. JOHN F. BODLE '49 on the death of his father, Dec. 5. LAWRENCE '51 and DENNIS PAN0Z2 0 '60 on the death of their father, Oct. 25. JEROME R. '55 and PHILIP G. PRASS.\S '58, on the death of their father, De c 20. JOHN D. KING "57 on the death of his father, June 28. 
JOHN C. '58, A. JAMES '60 and JEROME A. HIRSCHFELD '66 on the death of their father, Dec 8. 
THOMAS I. McSWEENEY '60, on the death of his father. ALAN J. FRENZEL '65 on the death of his mother, De c 13. PETER C. LANGENUS '65 on the death of his mother, Nov. 16. Prof. John Kane, faculty, on the death of Us wife, Dec. 19. 
DEATHS 

M. EMMET WALTER '14, i U '15, '16L, Houston^ Tex., yov, 2. Editor o£ the Houston Chronicle for 14 years he retired in 1961 but retained the position of editorial consultant until cariy this year. A member of numerous dxic and religious oisanizations he had served on the Houston Planning Commission for over 20 years, recovcd the French Croix dc Guerre during WW I, been named a Papal Knight of St. Gregory and a Knight of &falta. He was active in work for the N D Foundation. His widow survives. 
HENRY P. DOWNEY '19, Chicago, Nov. 21. Surviving are his u-idow, two sons and daughter. Dr. EDGAR J. HERMES '21, Lansing, Mich., 
Sept. 28. 
CHARLES PATRICK MOONEY JR. LLB '21, Memphis, Nov. 11. A lawyer since 1921 he was asnstant district attorney, a state representative in 1929, federal attorney in 19 ^ and in 1934 was ap­pointed assistant US attorney for West Tennessee. Survinng are his widow and son. 
Dr. CLEMENT T. SOBECKI '22, South Bend, Nov. 18. A South Bend dentist he b sun^ved by a brother and two asters. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
FRANK P. CULLEN '24, Oak Park, HI., De c 

30. He was president of the CuUen-Fricstedt Co., manufacturers of railway cranes, and a fonzier member of the Board of Directors of the National Railway Appliance Assn. Survi^^ng are his mdow, three sons including Frank J. *59, and thiree daughters. 
JOHN E. BOWER '25, Waukegan, III.. Sept. 

29. He is survived by h^ widow, son John Jr. *56 and a daughter. 
ALFRED G. HOCKWALT '25, Pittsburgh, Nov. 16, 1964- His tt-idow survives. 
G. FRANKLIN McSORLEY '25, Pittsburgh, Dec 23. Co-owner of the Sterling Land Co., he ^\-as a contractor and real estate developer. He served as commissioner of the Pennsylvania Turn­pike from 1955-59. Surviving are his widow, two daughters, a son and brother John '28. 
JOSEPH L. BARRINGTON '26, Englewood, 

N.J., Dec 4. LYSfAN J. CLARK '26, Winnetka, BL, De c 6. ROBERT V. DUNNE '26, San Francisco, Nov. 
25. While a student at N D he served as Knute Rockne's public relations aid and went on to serve as a public relations and advertising executive. He played pro baseball with the NY Gbnts, served as a baseball and boxing coach and wrote a sports column in the San Francisco News, He also made three movies and conducted his ou'n TV and radio programs in Los Angeles. He is survived by his widow and five children. 
FRANK J. WALSH LLB '26, Chicago, Dec II. 

A self-employed insurance broker he is survived fay 
three nephews and one niece. 
LEO McTERNAN '27, Louisville, Ky., De c 9, 

1963. He was active in the ND Club of Kentucky 
and was a member of the national Monogram 
Club. Surviving h his widow. 
CHARLES J. RIHN '29, Aliquippa, Pa., Oct. 6. 
JOSEPH F. BOYLAND '31, Grand Rapids, 

Mich., Sept. 7. At the time of his death he was 
VP of Peerless Ins. Co. a position which he held 
since 1959. Active in local organizations he had 
once served as president of the ND Club of West-
em &Iich. Surviving are his widow, a son and 
three daughters. 
JOHN C. RADOSEVICH '31, Palos Park, HI., 

Nov. 27. 
JOSEPH KENNEDY '32, New Haven. Conn., 
June 29, 1964. 
FR.ANCIS J. MORRISON '32, Rochester. N.Y., 

Sept. 2. He is survived by his widow and two 
brothers, Arnold '35 and Reginald '37. 
PETER J. QUINN JR. '33, Bloomficid, N.J., 
Oct. 24. Owner and director of a funeral home He 
was also a director of the First Savings and Loan 
Assn., a member of the local board of realtors, a 
member of the Ki%vanis Club and 4th degree K 
of C. He was a past president of the ND Club of 
New Jersey. Surviving are his widow, son Peter 
'60 and a second son. 
HARRY J. MURPHY '34, Ahna, Mich., Nov. 
10. He is survived by his widow. JOHN J. McGRATH '35, Sedalia, Mo., De c 
23. President and chairman of the board of direc­tors of the Sedalia Bank and Trust Co., he was also on the board of trustees of the Kansas City Research Hospital. He was awarded the title of Colonel by three governors for his support of the state Democratic party. Surviving are his widow and four daughters. 
ROBERT J. MAZANEC '38, Qeveland, 0. j 
Dec. 6. 
EDWARD J. MATHIEU '40, Bloomingdalc, N.J.. Dec. 16. He was owner of the Mathieu Chemical Co., of Riverdale. Surviving £s his widow. 
RICHARD JOHN STEFFANIAK '40, South Bend, Nov. 28. He was employed as an adminis­trative engineer with the Aerospace Dlv. of the Bendix Corp. He served as secretary of the South Bend Golf Assn. and was a past president of the Bendix Mgt. Club and also served in the Army ,^r Corps during WW II. He is survived by two daughters. 
Dr. ROBERT M. WTTUCKI BNS '44, BSChem. '47, MS '48, Santa Barbara. CaliL, Nov. 6. He was a research chemist for Astrophysics Research Corp. at the time of his death. Surviving are his ^vidow. son and four daughters. 
Rev. LEONARD R. LUX OSB, MA '45, Aurora. III., Jan. 13, 1966. ROLAND NORMAN RUSSELL '50, Agawam, Mass., Oct. 9. 
JOHN MacINNES '53. Minneapolis, Nov. 9, A member of the Society of Lay Mission Helpers he died at his mission post in the Diocese of Fort Portal in Northern Uganda where he had just completed a three-year teaching assignment in the African Seminary. He is survived by his mother and brother Rev. George Maclnnes CSC '56. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY T967' FEBRUARY 
Rev. BARNABAS P. HARRINGTON OSB MS '60, St. Kfeinrad's Abbey, Ind.. Nov. 25. He was killed in an auto accident near English. Ind* 
JOSEPH S. SLADE '60. '61L, Misha«raka, Nov. 
9. He was on the staff of McGladrey, Hansen, Dunn & Flatley, a public accounting firin and was a member of the K of C, Indiana Bar Assn., South Bend Press Club and other civic organizft* tions. Surviving are his widow and infant flaaghter. 
Sister M. JOSEPH DAVU> MAIER MFA '62, Immaculata, Pa.. Feb. 4. 
Capt. WILLIAM J. WILDERS USA '62. Scai»* dale, N.Y.. Nov. 16. An artillery liaison officer be died of bums suffered when his helicopter crashed in Vietnam Nov. 6. During his three yean of military service he received several commendations. He is survived by his widow and two children. 
ALBERT T. KOHOUT '63, Defiance, Ohio^ Nov. 2. He was killed in an automobile acddent. He is survived by his parents. 
Wilbur D. Peat, member of the Advisory CotUH dl of the College of Arts and Letters, Indian* apolis, De c 14. 
Thomas L. Hickey Sr., ber of the President's Commit­tee of the University, died In South Bend De c 15. A prom­inent building contractor and civic and business leader, the lifelong resident of South Bend w ^ board chairman and presi­

_^_^___^,^_^_ dent of Thomas L. Hickey, Inc ; the latter position he held unce 1913. Mr. Hickey. who maintained a close asodation with the University for years, was specially elected to the Alumni Association in 1932. In addition to his position on the President's Committee, he held a similar post at St. Mary's College and was also the honorary president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph's Valley. Mr. Rickey's ties with Notre Dame were also strengthened through his role as godfather to Knute Rockne. He is 
survived by his widow, five sons, Thomas L. Jr. '35, Donald F. '38. Gerald A. '41, John P. »44, and Joseph E. '50, and a daughter. 
Mrs. Julia Deal Lewis, widow of Frank J. Lems, industrialist and philanthropist, died Dec. 24 in I^lm Beach, Fla. Donor of Lewis Hall, a graduate residence hall for Suters on the campus, Mrs. Lewis was 79. In 1953 

__^ ^ the Lewis family pronded funds for the bns shel(^ at the entrance to the campus. Mr. and Mrs. Lewis were one of a very few couples who received honorary degrees from the University. Mr. Lewis accepted a doctor of laws degree in 1954 while in 1962 Mrs. Lewis was awarded a doctor of fine arts degree. She is survived by two sons, three stepsons and a step­daughter. 
FACULTY AND STAFF DEATHS 
Stephen H. Ronay '27-MA' '31, a professor of English at the University, died Nov. 13 in South Bend. Joining the faculty in 1931 the specialist in Elizabethan drama and bib­liography left the University temporarily to serve in the US Army during WW H where he 

attained the rank of lieutenant colonel. In 1948 he earned his doctorate at the University of CM­cago. He is survived by his widow and four sons, among whom is James C. '66, and a stepson and stepdaughter. 
-Year Club 

" V • • ^Vhen. if ever, have Notre Dame ^^I^F ^b^ ^ Alumni—both real and synthetic 
—enjoyed a more interesting and exciting football season. At the close of the 10­game schedule Notre Dame had won nine games with one tie and it was the first tmdefeated season under Coach Ara. Total score for the season was 362 for Notre Dame against only 38 for its op­ponents. The first game against Purdue was a 26 to 14 victory and the last against Southern Cal was 51 to 0. Oddly enough both of these teams were selected to play in the Rose Bowl on New Year's Day. With a wealth of young material N D should be strong for some years to come and perhaps win other national championships. 
Now from the joyous to the sad. I regret to report the passing of another member of the Class of '15. M. EMMET WALTER >14, MA '15 and '16 L died Nov. 1 im Houston. He had beem c£tor of the JVMUIAS CkroukU for 14 yean bat retired in 1961. UntU the be^nnins ot thb year he had been active as an ctfitocial consultant lor the p^er. His widow survives. 
I regret abo to report that JOSEPH TANSEY 1 5 lost his wife Gwendolyn, Nor. 19. JoKph's address is 113 N. St. Feter St., Sooth Bend 46617. 
''Eterml rest giant unto them, O Lord, and let pcxpctnal light shine upon them. Mxf they Kst in peftce. Amen." 
The holidays wiU have come and gone by tfie tine Ais isoe reaches yoo. Nevertheless, I want to extend this bchtcd greeting to each of you and to yoor dear ones: "Bby all the inaycxs sincere and tme made at Chr^tmas time for you be answered one by oo^ to bless these ho^ days with happbess." 
ALBERTA.KUHLE'15 117 Sunset Ave., LoGrange, 

III. 60525 

BfARTIN EMMET WALTER '14 He iriU loi^c be remembered One of Notre Dame's most accomplished Alum-u and 50-Year men, MARTIN EMMET WALTER '14. i£ed Nov. 1 in Houston, Tex., where he had led lus nsefol life from the time he was dischaxged a few months after the close of WW I. He had been a native of Mt. Canned ID. As a lieutenant in France he was decorated with the Crotx de Cutrre for gallantry in action at the siege c^ Rhdms. Characteristically, he told us that his bravery was because he was **too scared to run." After having been taken pris­oner and spending nz weeks in a German prison camp, he escaped and made his way back to Ruris after traveUng for weeks through dangerous enemy territory. Upon completing h s undergraduate studies at Kotre Dame he returned to earn an BiA in 1915 and a law degree in 1916. He had practiced law only a short time before entering the Army. He was with the Houston CkromtcU for zoom than 40 years and eventually became its chief editor and VP. The Ckromicie, the largest paper in Texas, was owned by the late Jesse Jones writh whom Walter developed a lasting friendship. After the death of Mr. Jones he was made one of the advisory trustees of his estate and trust. Emmet, as his friendi called him, was said to be one of the three most active men in direct­ing the city's affairs dtuing the many ytaxs of its rapid growth. In 1940 he was appointed a memr ber of the Houston Planning Commission. It was after tins appointment that Emmet did his most effective work in guJdii^ the dty, particulariy per­taining to the- develofmient and widening of its thoroughfares. The City Council, as a token <^ its esteem, named a branch of the public library for him, the M. E. Walter Branch. During his career he was made a Knight of St. Gregory and also of Malta. But the highest tribute paid him was by some of hb associates on the paper who said he seemed happiest when ^hting for what he thought best for.Us dty and community. In addition to lus other newspaper duties for years he ran on occanon a column in which the character, "Soapy Joe", always in folksy dialect, took the wind out of many a sail usually in politics. After his death he was described by newspapermen as "one of the last of personal journalists." 
In aiklitton to Emmet's great generouty to Notre Dame through the years and also a sze­able bequest willed by him to the University, we have learned, that'f50,000 to establish a fellow­ship program for graduate students at the U. of Texas has been founded by the Houston Endow­ment Inc to honor the memory of M. £. Walter. It win be identified by his name. 
WALTER L CLEMENTS '14 502 W. Navarre, South Bend, Ind. 46616 

1916 
GROVER F. MILLER 220 9th St., Racine, Wis. 53403 
WILLI.AM E. BRADBURY LLB *16 Saturday 
night only to Icam that Bill was still at the It is with very deep 
offices of that prominent law firm, in practice regret we announce 
now for nearly a century. that two more names 
must be added to the 

Could not get any news from the quarter miler and monogram man, JOHN L. VOELKERS, 
1917 1922 
Class of 1922's list of 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, III. 60121 

jm ^^ m ^ ^ Hi, Olc Timer. Another 
^B M J^B ^L^P year gone and now Wc 
I ^"^ I ^^^ are in a New Year. May 
I ^^F H ^^^f i^ t>'(^^ y°" ^"^ yours to 
tlie best health you have 

ever enjoyed. And hope that it continues througli 
our GOLDEN JUBILEE year and to your return 
to the campus for a once-in-a-lifctimc REUNION 
1968. 
Our birthdays this issue will recall to you 
fellows who might not liavc been a campus "pal" 
or a hall "buddy** but remember tlie guy wth a 
card. He'll be pleased to hear from you. It 
might be the first time you have sent him a card 
but do it now as there may not be many more 
chances. You're the guy that really gets the 
most out of "lighting the candle.** 
Feb. 23, ARTHUR J. BERGMAN *I7, 3910 Rosemary St., Che\-y Chase, Md.; Mar. 4, AL\RCH 
F. WELLS LLB *15, 1901 E. Taylor St., Bloom­ington, lU.; Mar. 8, HARRY M. BRADY, 411 W. Tou-nlinc, Payne, Ohio; Mar. 13, Rt. Rev, FR.\.VCIS MONIGHA.V, 414 Church St., Gregory-, 
S. D. 57532; Mar. 27, EDWIN MORRIE STARRETT, 419 Quincy St., Port Townsend, Wash.; and Mar. 31, HUGH S. CARROLL, 338 Mountain View .Ave., San Rafael, Calif. 
JOSEPH T. RILEY LLB '18, 715 HaAcly. Muskegon, Mich. 49440 sent a nice note and stated that he heard from JOHN A. LEMMER, 901 Lake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Mich. Rev. C. J. WILLLAMS, St. Malachy Rccton', Rantoul, III. writes: "I thought your birthday greetings sample was proper and filled the bill. Most people are appredativc of the tlioughtfulness." That **AU-American Waterboy'* and monogram track star, 
E. MORRIE STARRETT, postcards tliat he sent out four birthday cards. Proves Morrie is alive and on the ball. 
Cmdr. CH.ARLES ^V. CALL USNR (Ret.), IW7 Biltmore Dr., Winter Haven, Fla. recentiy spent three weeks in Tliailand and Laos primarily for pleasure but also to get a cIosc-up \-iew of the war. He traveled out of Charleston, S.C. on an embassy plane operated by llic Military Airlift Command \vx Spain, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, India and Burma. He spent a couple of da>-5 in Afadrid and in New Delhi and Bangkok. He was in Northern Thailand near the Mekong River which is the boundary betH'ecn Tliailand and Laos and about 15 minutes by plane from Hanoi. 
That guy "Texas Bill,** WILLI.AM A. GRADY *I7, Carrollton, Tex., Box 596 sure gets around. Don't think he missed a home football game. Gotta thank Texas for loan of 1913 Dome. Bill wants to send it to P.AUL CASTNER. Monogram track star and miler JAMES P. LOG.AN \*Tlles that he is feeling fine: "still putting in a full day at work—the 71 years liave been kind to me through the ^race of God." States that he heard from PETER J. RO.XCHETTI, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. 
Phoned "BIG FR.ANK** RYDZEWSKI, 8355 Burley .Ave., Chicago, to learn if he had any "dope" for the ALUMNUS. He \%-as very much pleased to hear from: PAUL J. FORG.ARTY '17, 5555 Sheridan Rd., Chicago 60626; THOMAS H. KING, 446 Kedzie Dr., East Lansing, Mich.; LAMBERT Q. SENG, 6508 Glcnwood Ave., Chicago 60626; JOHN A. LEMMER. CH-ARLES CALL and PETER RONCHETTI. Also talked with M.G. KAZUS, 101 Knox Ave-, Buffalo, 
N.Y. No news other than he is feeling good and requested Pete Ronchetti's address as he wants to thank him for his card. Told Max I called 
20 
1006 S. Wesley Ave., Oak PaA, III., other than 
he is well and cnjo>'ing good health. Boy, I 
have !iad no luck trying to contact EDWIN T. 
BREEN, 1542 Sher^vin Ave., Chicago 60626. All 
the news about Brecn comes from BERT SENG 
%v'ho has him listed as a former assistant state's 
attorney. 
This New Year, Iet*s not forget those of our 

Class who have passed away. CLARENCE 
BROWN, LEO COOK LLB *18, CHARLES P. 
DUTRIEUX and DANIEL F. McGLYNN JR. 
LLB *18. 
A year of good health to all. Peace. 

GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, 

III. 60647 

^H ^^^^^1 ^^^k ^Ve are closer than we ^m m. M^ m. m think to being listed in 
•
 ^ 4 • ^ 4 the 50-Ycar Club. Classes 


•
 ^l^# • ^ ^ of *I6, *17, '18 only pre­


cede us. &Iany of our classmates and Alumni would like to hear more about us, our families, jobs, retirements and actiWties. Why not take time out now to write me about yourself, family and any additional news about our classmates. Your letter will go far in stimulating new interest in this column for all of us in future ALUMNUS issues. 
THEODORE C RADEAAAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN 

170 Moybrook Rd., Rochester, 
N.Y. 14618 

1921 
Dear Dan: 
You might be interested to know that the cam­pus here continues to grow at a rapid pace. The new parking facility just south of the Engineering Building \s just now* completed. The new Post Of­fice Building just north of the Continuing Educa­tion Center is well under way. The steel structuial portion of the new Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter east of the Stadium is beginning to take shape. Also, just north of the Stadium, ground Is being broken for what eventually \rill be a new Lobund Laboratory. 
As you know, the annual imrestricted contribn^ ^ons oi the Alumni are the sottrcc of funds that enable the Uuivcr^ty to meet the administrative expenses outside the nonnal budget provisions. It is the annual contributions of the Alumni Fund that keep the "Old School House" running. Ex­cept for the fixed incomes the administration u probably more dependent upon the Altunni Fund than on any other source of revenue. 
To date approximately 20 percent of the '21 Class have sent in their annual contribution. Tbib is considerably better than the preceding year bat still a long way from 100 percent. 
Of course, the important thing is that everyone do a bit. Why not take care of this now — •tiap|f«. 
For tliosc of you who missed the Reunion tlui spring, may I add that you missed a grand time. I am sure you will be hearing more about thb froA Duffy later. 
Sincerely, 
R. J. "Schub'* SCHUBMEHL 
DAN W. DUFFY 


1030 Natl. City E 6th BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

deceased members: HARRY L. CLAIBORNE of 4305 Dale Ave., Nashville, Tenn. and Dr. CLEMENT T. SOBECKI of 1523 Sunnj-mcde Ave., South Bend. Wc would like to have some additional information on the first mentioned, but can give details about Dr. Sobccki. He received a BA degree from ND and was graduated from the College of Dentistry of Loyola in Chicago in 1925. Dr. Clem practiced dentistry in South Bend for many years and up to the time of his death on Nov. 18. He was a member of the North Central Dental Assn., Indiana State Dental Assn. and the American Dental Assn. Survivors are a brother. Dr. Raymond Sobecki of Indianap­olis, and two sisters, Mrs. Casimer Podcmski and MIS. Medard Rafalske both of Covington, Ky. Let us remember the deceased in our prayers, also their loved ones who survive. 
EDWARD BAILEY of Phibdelphia, who was hospitalized in his home town for an operation in June, rushed down to Houston, Tex. in mid-fall to be with his son Barney who was injured in a bad motor accident. Then, on Oct. 23, Ed him­self was whisked to St. Luke's Hospital, Houston for an emergency operation. He was treated for a gall bladder condition and an ulcer. The latest report had Ed in general circulation again and doing well. 
Class President JOHN RALPH CORYN of Moline, III. is already tuider way with work in connection w^th our 45tb anniversary Class Reunion slated for next June on the campus. With the hearty approval of our Class members in the South Bend area, Ralph has appointed J. FRANK, '*RANGY" MILES as Reunion director. We note with great pleasure that Rangy's staff will consist of three veteran stalwarts, FRED DRESSEL, PAUL SCHWERTLEY and HAROLD WEBER, who in the past have done so much to make our Class Reunions outstandingly successful. On Oct. 18 in South Bend, a meeting \\-as held by Class inembeis in that area to discuss preliminary aixangcments with JAMES ARMSTRONG '25, Alumni secretary. The greatest contribution Class members in general can make to the Class of *22 is "to be present at our 45 Reunion. Already many have signified their intentions of attending. These include: Dr. EDDIE ANDERSON, HEARTLEY "HUNK** ANDERSON, FRANK BLOEMER JR., RALPH CORYN, CHARLIE CROWLEY, BOB GALLOWAY, VINCE HAN­RAHAN, JIM MURPHY, ART SHEA and DAN YOUNG. The above list omits the names of South Bend area men, and many other fine and loysl classmates who would not even dream of missing one of our five-year Class Reunions. As yet, no canvass has been made to ascertain the names of those who will attend. 
FRANK BLOEMER attended the Army, North Carolina and Michigan State games. On the train returning from one of them Frank had a delightful chance meeting wt h PAUL KENNEDY '23 and lamily of Templeton, Ind. It was the very first 
ND'm I9i4versionofthe"Fighf­ing Irish" coached by Jesse Harper and led by Captain Keith Jones, 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

meeting of Frank and Paul since 1922. that this secretary has felt highly repaid for his the Football Hall of Fame at the same time — 
There is a new address for Dr. MATTHEW 

W. WEIS: 35 N. CentnU Ave, St. Louis, Mo. 63103. 
There is a beautiful letter of appreciation ad> dressed to our Class by Mrs. EUGENE SMOGOR of South Bend and it reads as follows: 
'*&Iy deepest heartfelt thanks to the members of the Class of *22 for the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass that \v'as offered for the repose of the soul of their classmate, Eugene, affectionately called *Smog.* Eugene was deeply religious and well-prcparcd to meet his God in heaven. All of the beautiful Holy Afasscs, spiritual bouquets, flo^vers and fervent prayers have paved his %ray to eternal rest, where he now rejoices with the angels and the saints. Eugene would look over the 1922 Dome frequently, as it brought him many pleasant memories. He did look fonrard to the 45th Class Reunion. He will be there in spirit. Thank you, again and God bless you all. In sorrow, Afarie Smogor." 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 
175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
On the few occasions when no news ema­nated from this sec­retariat in the pages 

1923 
of the ALUMNUS there have been a few eyebrows raised among our readers so that the suspicion arose that Bruggner vna asleep at the switch. 
Not so, says this secretary. It is the editorial opinion under which the Class of '23 operates that most of the '23 chitchat is meaningless or uninteresting to the larger body of readers of this magazine. The same is true of all Classes. Only the important news of each Class is of any interest to the large body of Alumni, and at most, only each Class's Immediate seniors or juniors in school note or long remember what went on with each of us. To recount all the trivia of every Class in these pages is like giving page one attention to what individual families have for dinner, or whose children made the honor roll in St. Bingo's parochial school. 
Instead, the Class of 1923 has achieved a reputation of sorts among I<D Class secretaries through the use of a secretary's newsletter, mailed to classmates at least as often as the ALUMNUS itself appears. In these letters, scuttlebutt vies with obituaries and earthshaking achievements for attention—and with high success. 
It is because of this policy of correspondence entre nos camarades de cltuse that we take pleasure in mentioning the correspondence which arose following the action of FRANK DORIOT in sending me a photocopy of a contract of employ­ment between the University and himself. In this contract, nostalgically setting forth once iron­clad University rules, several classmates recognized their own student-employment contracts of yester­year and wrote in their own humorous observa­tions. Thus I heard from ALFRED "DUKE" HODLER, postmaster of Portland, Ore. Judge ROGER J. KILEY, of the VS Court of Appeals in Chicago, and others. One man, FRANK FTTZSIMMONS (who is now pursuing "the hardest job of his life" retirement) sent me a photocopy of a 1920 letter in KNUTE ROCKNE's handwriting on University stationery in which Rock recommended Fitz for any student summer position based on his opinion of Fitz as being **relbble, trustworthy and having brains and initiative." It all mokes enjoyable reading, so newsletters by means of reader-response and money for Class expenses. Our Reunion (Make It a Date in '68) promises to be great, by reason of Class interest, response and financial aid. AU Class secretaries would do well to work this fertile field with diligence. 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
1924 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
Your Secretary just had a wonderfal "phone vin^* wit h GEORGE A. BISCH­

1925 
OFF. He promised to get the Indianapolis gang of '25ers together lac a luncheon the next time I am in the Hoosier c:q>> itol. George has the same "SAC" (Student Ac­tivities Committee) pep he had while in SchooL He is anxious to do more than his share to make our 42nd "In Betwccn-er" on June 9, 10, and II, a success. George now has his son in the insur­ance business with him. 
While In Florida over Thanksgiving we had our first Reunion "pep rally" at JOHN DROEGE's beautiful Tamalac Marina Club at Lauderdale and were his guests. BILL BENITZ, 2841 NE 33xd Ct., Ft. Lauderdale, has just moved down from New York. AU he's doing is cashing AT&T stock dividends and clipping coupons. He and ha wife will take on all comers for contract bridge. FRAN* CIS PATRICK McFADDEN has also followed the sun and is stU! in touch with his New York o£5ce but doing his job at 401 Riverside, Pompano Beach. Frank called the gang together. WARD McCARRON, 1501 SE 14th St. at Lauderdale, took time out from his K of C and parish activities to have a delightful visit with us. I talked to JOE FITZPATRICK, who is a trust OBCCT m the Flor­ida National Bank in Miami. If any of you fellows retire bring your bundle along and Joe will take care of it for you and yours. He has picked his old friend BILL SEIDENSTICKER of Columbus, Ohio for his roommate in June. 

As I mentioned In my last Class column, be smre to line up a roommate for this event. A letter we will get out, after the Christmas-card rush, will give you the details. TED BINTZ of Fremont Ohio is lining up his brother AL. A couple of feUou-s like JOHN E. KENNELLY of Miami and BERNARD FINNIGAN of Lauderdale couldn't make the luncheon. Dr. LEO VOLLMER of Boca Raton couldn't be there cither but is planning on the Reunion. I talked to JOE TOOLEN and he promised to call the fellows In the St. Petersburg area where Joe is moving. CARL STOLL and Dr. CHARLES £. GUTH are in Dunedin, Fla. and AL FELLNER is in St. Pete's whUe CHARLIE DONAHUE Is in Sarasota. Army weekend I saw JERRY and DON MILLER as well as BERNIE LIVERGOOD, LARRY CASEY and VIRGIL FAGAN, who is retired from Sears and wiU just about niake the Reunion between his trips to Eu­rope and the Far East. 
Here is another first for our Class! What class can say they have had two members elected into RIP MILLER and JIM CROWLEY. Congratula­tions, we are prond of you. That gives us quite a bundi — pretty soon onr Class will have a complete team in the Football Hall of Fame. HERM CENT­UVRE, here is another research job for your "Firsts for the Class of '25." We see each other frequently when X make Fort Wayne. I recom­mend if yon are hungry and in tliat Indiana town to try Henn's breakfast. ANSE MTT.T.ER and I got together in his beautiful town of Roandce, Va. The hour was late but before I got thraogh "chinning" with him and his charming wife the hoin* was later. Anse has two sons, one married and a beautiful married dai^hter and an array of grandluds. Anse hopes to be mth us in June. 
PAUL HOEFFLER sends your secre ^ birtb­dasf greetmgs. Thanks for the good wishes and, God willing, I shall take your adnce. To quote Fud: **I sure enjoy your articles and hope sincere­I7 you can keep up the traveling and wridng. You and HANK WURZER are really domg a wonder­ful job." Just in case any of you missed getting a check to ND (wluch Hank «rrote about) before the '66 deadline, send it before May so we will have a good report "to br^ abou^' at our 42 Reunion. BERNIE LIVERGOOD writes, '*I enjoyed my viut with you at the Army game and I think an xntexim '25 Class Reunion in June '67 is a great idea.^ m be glad to help in any way." Thanks, Bcmie, you will be hearii^ ktym me to stir op all tiie athletes of our Class. 
l a case yon fellows missed it JOE BACH, ^ o helped oar immortal **Fonr Horsemen" get tlurough tiiose "thin opens" that Crowley talks about, died suddenly of a heart attack. Joe was 65 and lived in Kttsbuigh. In recent years Joe was a labw medi­ator for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Le^s add Joe to your list for some extra ''Hail Marys." Our deepest sympathy to his family. Just got a flash from the Alumni Office that ALFRED HOCKWALT cfied in Pittsburgh on Nov. 16, 1964 according to a notice from his widow. AI's name was on our '25 list just sent to me by Jim Arm­strong so the Alumni Office didn't know about it. A belated Mass will be said for Al. This comes as a great shock! Now you know why we are having a Reuiw>n next June instead of 1970! 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, 


Ohio 43606 
I am sorry that the 
deadline of the last 
of the ALUMNUS 
came around a little 

too last and I was not able to send any news. While at Notre Dame for the Army game on Oct. 8, I had a nice visit with FRANK DETTLE who told me that he had seen MARK MOONEY the weekend of the Purdue game as he was up from Tampa, Fla. for a convention in Chicago. I also saw JOHN RYAN and his mfe as well as BERT COUGHUN and some of ias family. While my car mas pariced at the post office a card was stuck in the windshield with the question WHO YOU? The reason for the question was that my license plate is ND 26 and JOHN RYAN was a bit carious to see who was the owner. 
STEVE PIETROWICZ was recently honored irith a write-iq;> in the Chicago Tribune employees' magazine. The occaslcm was his 40th year with the paper. He is now financia] advertising mgr. and, with six salesmen beades himself, sells advertising space to finanoal institutions in Chicago and New Yoik. Steve and his wife Alice have a daughter, two sons and aght grandchildren. I asked Steve 
1926 
completed its season with a 6-2-0 record. Donated by Grover F. Miller '16 this photograph of the team tvSl be presented to this yearns 50th Year Reunion Class (1917) in June. The two players not identified on the picture are Kowalski (sixth from the left) and Opan (sixth from the right). 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
for some more information and I am quoting his 
letter. "There isn't much I can add to it other 
than my daughter &fary Alice %%'a5 graduated from 
Barat College, Lake Forest, 111. in '53. My son 
STEVE JR. v>-as graduated from ND in '59. He 
ser\'ed as an officer in the U S Army in Germany 
for two years with distinction and is now married. 
He is the father of two children, a boy 354 and 
a girl 2. He is employed by AT&T and is in 
charge of their office in Indianapolis. My younger 
son Bill sen.-ed as an officer in the U S Army 
and was stationed in France for two years, 
Germany one year, and one year in the States. 
He served with distinction and has been dis­
charged. He is employed by the Morgan Linen 
Co. He is the father of two sons, one 3 years 
old and the other six months. Bill graduated from 
ND in '62. Both of the bo\3 were in the ROTC 
while at ND and were graduated as officers. In 
addition to being financial advertising mgr. of my 
first love, the Chicago Tribunef a few years ago 
we purchased Chicago's American and I serve in 
the same capacity for that newspaper too. So you 
can sec that my business life is a busy one but 
extremely interesting." 
BUD B.^RR sent me a clipping from the The 
Journal and Courier of Lafayette, Ind. telling all 
about "the greatest athletic family in Jefferson 
High history—the famed Crowe brothers—is gath­
ered in Lafayette today (Aug. 27) for a reunion. If 
the conversation turns to sports it could go on for 
days." The article is quite lengthy but a couple 
of pertinent parts are tliat **Ciem was the greatest 
athlete of the bunch" and "he has 10 children 
of his own, one of whom is a priest in Buffalo." 
Ex Class Pres. RUDV GOEPFRICH is stiU travel­
ing around the country and he sent me a letter 
from Dallas, Tex. stating that he ^i-as attending 
some National Education Assn. meetings. He called 
on some of our classmates and has given me the 
following information: "The first one I got hold 
of was LAMBERT (BERT) J. WALTER. He 
came to my hotel room and we talked for an 
hour or more. He spent a lot of time in the 
financial business but more recently he is in the 
trucking business. He is traffic representative for 
the C & H Transportation Co. which is home 
based here in Dallas. It is a big outfit. They 
have 15 branch offices and do heavy hauling in 
more than 40 states. Bert has moved around 
quite a lot since he got out of school—Cleveland, 
-Pittsburgh, St. Louis, Kansas City (where he 
met and married his wife)—and now Dallas where 
he has lived for the last 23 years. They have 
a boy in college here in Texas. I visited wt h 
BILL DEFFERARI in his old office. Bill has 
charge of the Dallas division of the Hiram Walter 
Co. and ser%accs the whole state of Texas. Bill 
spent two years at N D then finished his college 
woik here in TcJtas. For some six years he was 
in the CIc\"cland-Co!umbus, Ohio area, where he 
published books for Catholic schools. Then to 
Texas where he married a Dallas girl. They have 
a son and four grandchildren. 
"FRED LINK took me to lunch at the Dallas 
Athletic Club. We had a real nice visit for about 
tu'o hours. After college Fred worked for GM 
until about '39. After a short stint in business 
for himself he went to work for the Oil Well 
Div. of U S Steel Corp. and moved to Dallas. 
They manufacture and sell oil .well equipment 
and have about a hundred depots. Fred is 
director of facilities both manufacturing and 
selling. He has been pretty well tied down at 
home taking care of iiis wife who suffered a 
fractured kneecap about a month ago. She is re­
cuperating nicely now. Fred spent seven years at 
ND, three in preparatory- school and four in col­
lege, the latter all in Walsh Hall. 
**A1I three of the above will be retired from 
work by the time our next Reunion rolls around 
and, God willing, hope to attend it. These men 
also told me about ED IfAGGAR, an active ND 
alumnus here in Dallas. £d is owner of the 
company which makes the well known Haggar 
slacks. Ed's brother Joe is also a ND graduate. 
I called Ed to say hello but learned that he \vas 
out of the country." 
Your secretary had cards from Rudy in Saa Diego and Anaheim, Calif. He tried to contact FRANTC CONROY and PAUL JOHNSON but found that they were not listed in the phone book under the addresses we have on our roster. Any­body have any information about them? Rudy also tried to contact ALLEN TRAVIS of Santa Monica but there was no answer at the time he called. 
ALOYSIUS KIRK has retired from services with the Boy Scouts after 40 years. He has served as national director of Catholic service in the scouts* relationships di^dsion and as executive secretary of the Catholic Committee on Scoutinff-He was recently honored wth a dinner given in Pittsburgh by Bishop William G. Connare, Episcopal moderator for the Boy Scouts. 
Just received news that JOE BARRINGTON died on Sunday Dec. 4. Although Joe wasn't in our Class all four ycais I am sure some of you will remember him. 
J. N. GELSON 

Gelson & Lowell, Inc., 200 E. 42nd Sh, New York, N.Y. 10017 
In the chambers of MIK E SWYGERT (known to everyone else as the Hon. Luther M. Swygert, 

1927 
Judge of the US Circuit Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit) in the new US Courthouse in Chicago, Mike, your Class president, met with DICK HALPIN and your Class secretary to discuss preliminary plans for our 40th Class Re­union. Dick had recently agreed to act as Re­union chairman. Committees are now in process of formation in order to obtain maximum at­tendance and to assure that every event at this momentous occasion next June mil proceed smoothly. 
A local committee at South Bend will be ap­pointed and regional Reunion chairmen to work under Dick will be designated. You soon will be receiving a request for reservations. Please reply at the earliest date possible. Each of you, of course, should get in touch with your own particular friends so that you can relive campus days and enjoy once more the delights of Notre Dame. 
I rccei^'cd a newsy note from JOHNNY HOWARD a few weeks ago. He is the first to advise me formally that he will be at the Reunion on June 9, 10 and 11. After service with the Bell System for 38 years, he retired on Mar. 1, 1966, at the age of 60 and moved to Palm Beach Shores where he lives at 337 Bamboo Rd., Palm Beach Shores, Fla. His greatest problem now is whether he will take the five-minute walk to the Atlantic Ocean or the three-minute walk to Lake Worth. 
I also received a delightful note from FRANK GEHLHOFFEN with which he enclosed a clip­ping from the ^fuskegon Chronicle. Frank, too, has retired. After serving as sales manager and director of advertising in Bantam Bearings Div. of the Torrington Co. of South Bend, he joined the Kaydon En^neering Corp. at Afuskegon, AficJi. He became VP of Kaydon in 1960. He has been active in ci\ic affairs in Thfuskegon and was pres­ident of the Serra Club. He and his mfe celebrated the beginning of his retirement by taking an extended trip to Western Europe. 
BILL CORBETT hss been appointed chairman of the Lay Board of Trustees of Barat College in Lake Forest, III., and he recently took part in ground-breaking ceremonies for a new rcadence hall on the campus there. WILLIAM KAVAN­AUGH has been elected chairman of the Wash­ington advisory committee of the Manufacturing Chemists Assn. 
I am sorry to have to report the deaths of three of our classmates. LEON AfcTERNAN died in Louisville, Ky. on Dec 9, 1965 according to a notice from his widow. BOB SHIELDS of Livingston, N. J., died on July 15, 1966 and STEPHEN RONAY who had been a professor at N D for many years and was one of our dependable contacts for earlier Class Reunions, died on Nov. 13, 1966. We should remember them in our prayers. 
You will be hearing from me and other Class officers soon again concerning the Reunion. In the meantime, mark the dates of June 9, 10 and 11 oa your calendar. 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River St., Aurora, III. 60504 
Your Class secretary rccired from federal government service after 26 years on De c 

1928 
30 and returned to his first occupational lovT, college teaching. He is now an associate prof, of industrial relations at the Institute of Industrial Relations at Loyola in Chicago. He is teaching social insurance, labor market economics and the social teaching of the Oiurcfa. 
DICK QUINLAN retured on Oct. 26 after a long legal career with the Railroad Retirement Board that began in May, 1939. Dick and his wife HoUb have moved to 7321 Trier Rd., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. They left for Florida after Christmas and sre trj^g to decide whether to remain there or go to California. 
I gave a series of lectures again this year at Danbury State Col. in Danbury, Conn, and saw Dr. CARL PETTERSCH, dean of Graduate Studies there. Carl attended the ND-Navy game this year. Last spring, he saw Dr. GUY LORANGER in Grosse Pointe, Mich. Guy had been seriously ill and had come through a rigorous operation without losing any of his old spark and re»llence. Guy has been carrying on medical research relating to the aftereffects of war-incurred wounds and injuries upon US servicemen. He w:as zecently publicly honored for his marked con­tributions in this area. Cail had lunch in Grand Rapids with LEO WALSH, who has curtailed his practice of law considerably. Leo has become deeply involved in arbitration activities in the State having been appointed by the governor of Iklichigan a few years ago to the State Arbitration Commission. Leo and Mildred attended a meeting of the American Academy of Arbitrators in Puerto Rico this year and then Wsited South America. 
My old Corby Hall roommate, DENNY DALY, was in New York on legal business this fall when I was in Tennessee attending a conference. I talked to RAY MULLIGAN from Chicago in the fall when he w-as assisting mc in locating an apart­ment in Chicago. Ray mentioned how much he enjoyed a session with Father JIM McSHANE SJ and ED DEAN in St. Louis where Ray's two daughters are students at St. Louis U. Father Jim later sent me a picture of himself, Ed and Ray. Father Jim also reported that he had a good get-together with my freshman-hall roommate, JOE BRANNON, in Phoenix. Father Jim is located at St. Louis U. Hospitals, 1325 So. Grand Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63104. JOE LANGTON, Marge and their daughter Susan insited Ireland and England this faU. CHUCK SWEENEY '38 was on the plane with Joe. He also met one of the Class of '29 CALLAHANS in Irekind. When I was in Ireland two years ago, I met BILL BROWN. Joe's daughter. Sister Michael ^faureen, visited her lanuly ta Ottau-a this fall. 
Our treasurer JOE LANGTON arranged for libsses in November which were offered at Notre Dame for the living and the deceased members of the Class. Joe reported that he had received contributions totalling $687.50 &om 64 classmates for the '28 Class &Iass Fund. Others who may want to contribute can reach Joe Langton at 406 
W. Madison St., Ottawa, III. 61350. 
FRANCIS MEYER sent pictures to our Class pre^dent BERNIE GARBER which he took at the very well attended and successful 11th Annual '28 Cocktail Party after the Army game. Helena and ED QUINN, not only made all arrangements for the party, but they personally made the 240 sandwiches for the affair. Wc are fortunate in havijig Ed and Helena and are most grateful to them for their help. 
ED QUINN has been appointed asst. dean for the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame. BILL KEARNEY was in Italy in October so had tomiss the Class party. A book by Rev. MARK FITZGERALD CSC entitled. The Common Mar­ket's Labor Programs, was published in November by the U. of Notre Dame Press. I had the privilege of reading the manuscript and found the material very interesting and most helpful. I lecommend it highly. 
Our former Class President Jllif ALLAN, BILL DWYER and LARRY O'CONNOR attended the funeral in Detroit of the wife of BOB VOGLEWEDE '29, Virginia, who died in October after undergoing her second open heart surgery in five years. BILL DWYER saw Bob Voglewede again after the ND-Michigan State tie at East Lansing. JOE DORAN, who retired from Sears, is building a new home in the Lafayette, Ind. area, according to BILL DWYER. BILL MURPHY wrote from his new home in Edwardsburg, Mich, that he saw PAT CANTY at an affair for HUGHIE DEVORE following the 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

Old-Timos game. Father ANDY MULREANY 
CSC visited Bill on his vacation from Camp Hood 
where he teaches school and convert classes. Had 
a note from PAT CANNY when he was stranded 
in Hawaii during the air strike. 

TOM MAHON, special agent for the North­
nxstem Life Ins. Co., u-rote from St. Faul send­
ing a newspaper picture of HOWIE FHALIN 
rcceixing a "Boss of the Year" award from 250 
representatives and managers of the Field Services 
Educational Corp. and of BOB FOGERTY's 
daughter Mary practicing for the State Fair 
Hoise Show. TOM MAHON has sons at ND 
and St. Thomas Col. 
Unfortunately, I did not return to Chicago in time to join the large group of '28 men at the '28 table at the Rockne Awards Dinner on Dec. 5, including BILL D\VYER, JIM ALLAN, ED McKEOWN, HOWARD PHALIN, JOHN RICK­ORD, JOHN WOULFE, BILL KEARNEY, BERNARD KORZEN, GEORGE McLAUGHLIN, BOB TROTTER, JOHN LYONS, RAY MUL­LIG.\N, ED RAFTER, CHARLIE SCHUESSLER, PHIL QUINN, ED McSWEENEY, FRANK CREADON, JOHN CAVANAUGH, BILL MURPHY, BOB REGNEY, JOE GRIFFIN, BOB WINTERS, ED BRENN.\N, BOB GRAHAM and JERRY LcSTR.\NGE, '26. 
CHARLES DUCEY MA '28, was elected to the board of directors and to the office of Deputy Supreme Knight of the K of C. HOWARD PHALIN was recently honored by the mayor of Chicago for his outstanding leadership as general chairman of the Xfcrcy Hospital building program. 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt 1007 Chicago, Illinois 60626 

From BOB HAMILTON: 
At the request of LOU BUCKLEY and BERNIE 
GARBER, I have agreed to organize a Class of 
'28 Reunion at the Princess Hotel in Bermuda 
for the week of March 12 through 18. Without 
getting involved %\-ith a travel agency to handle 
minute details^ the program runs as follows: 
Economy tickets for two (via Pan Am I hope) 
NY/Bermuda — $l70.00/round trip. First Class 
tickets for two NY/Bermuda—^94.00/round trip. 
(Personally, I recommend economy class—it*s less 
than two hours away!) Minimum: One week, 
including meals, at Princess for twio — $238.00. 
Maximum: One week, including meals^ at Princess 
for two—$252.00. Putting these together, the basic 
cost ior two is a minimum of $408.00 or a max­
imum of $646.00. 
The Princess Hotel is one of the finest in the 
Islands and their food is par excellence! It b a 
10-minute \\*alk from my home town of Hamilton, 
Bermuda, and there are bargains galore. Minimum 
fees at excellent local golf clubs are obtainable. 
Personally Vd recommend the economy fare and the minimum hotel rate totaling $408.00 for two for a week, or the economy fare and best accom­modations for two at $422.00. You will have to make your own airplane transportation arrange­ments from your home town to Bermuda and return. I will make the hotel arrangements. A brochure and other pertinent information mil be mailed to you shortly by Hetland & Stevens of New York (representatives of the Princess Hotel) wherein you may choose your hotel accommoda­tions. 
Vve traveled quite a bit, but I doubt that any trip and vacation with your better half can beat this. 
• —^Bob HamOton 

Which date do you prefer for the 1967 after game get-togeth­er: Oct. 14, Southern Cal or Oct. 28, Mich­igan State? In mid-October after canvassing our best sources of advice \vc selected Oct. 14. Events thb November, however, make it logical that we take another poll. Lodging accommodations will be in demand for each game and we promise to make firm plans and publicize them soon. Please help us to make the most popular choice. 
1929 
Just a little late for my last deadline, word was received of the death of BOB VOGLEWEDE's wife, Virginia. Those who looked forward to re­newing • association with the Voglewedes at the Army game Class get-together were saddened by the news. They and the host of their friends ex­tend sympathy to Bob and the family including son Tom at Notre Dame, daughter Marianne at 
ALUMlvlUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
NOVEMBER ELEaiON




Congrats 

WINNERS 
Raymond J. Broderick '35 was elected lieutenant governor for the State of Penn­sylvania. A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Law School, Mr. Broderick is a senior member of the Philadelphia law firm of Broderick, Schubert & Fitzpatrick. He is a member of the Bar in Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia. 
Bumett C. "Bumie" Bauer '3B-MA '46 was reelected Democratic representative to the Indiana State Legislature. A South Bend resident, he is the founder and manner of his own business, the Lindsay Soft Water Co. Burnie, who holds a graduate degree in accounting from Notre Dame, is also a part-time instructor at the Indiana Uni­versity extension campus. 
Richard J. Deeb '47 was elected Republican representative to the Florida State Senate. A St. Petersburg contractor and realtor he was elected to the Florida House of Rep­resentatives during a sp)ecial election in 1963 and during the legislative sessi(Hi served on five committees. The holder of a degree in civil engineering from Notre Dame he is also chairman of the City of 
St. ~ • --------­
Petersburg's Minimum Standard Hous­insf Board, 
Richard H. Gauthler '54 was elected Judge of Division C for the Twenty-Fifth Judicial District of the State of Louisiana. He will have exclusive jurisdiction in all civil mat­ters, criminal cases, and probate and suc­cession matters in St. Bernard and Pla­quemines parishes. Judge Gauthier, who received his law degree from the Louisiana State University Law School, is a member of the American and Louisiana State Bar Associations. 
Xavier Aragona '56 was elected a Demo­cratic representative to the Msuryland House of Delegates. A resident of Oxon Hill, Md., he holds a law degree from New York Law School and is a practicing attorney and president of the law firm of Aragona & Aragona. Xavier is a member of the Bar in both Maryland and New YorL 
>i 

APPOINTMENTS AND 


'Congrats

PROMOTIONS 
Robert E. Palenchar '43 was named vice-president and director of employee rela­tions for Sunbeam Corporation in Decem­ber. His new responsibilities will include expansion of the employee relations pro­gram to cover all employee, labor and community relations activities. Formerly vice-president for Budd Co.'s Automotive Division in Detroit, he received his degree from the University in economics and did graduate work in personnel administration at Notre Dame and the University of Michigan. 
Francis J. Shortsleeve '43-MS '47, director of marketing for Union Carbide Mining and Metals Division, was appointed vice-president for marketing in December. Dr. Shortsleeve, who received his PhD from Case Institute of Technology in 1952, joined Union Carbide in 1933 as a re­search engineer. He became director of research at the Metals Research Labora­tories in Niagara Falls, N.Y. in 1958 and ^vas promoted to product manager for silicon products in 1961. 
E Andrew StefFen '48-'50L, general at­torney for Indiana Bell Telephone Co., was elected vice-president for public affairs in November. In his new position he will be responsible for the company's govern­mental relations. StefFen, who received both his bachelor's and doctor of juris­prudence degrees from the University, joined Indiana Bell's I^al staff in 1953 as an attorney. A member of the American, Indiana State and Indianapolis Bar As­sociations, he was promoted to the com­pany's general attorneyship in 1959. 
Ben T. Reidy '55 was recently promoted to the vice-presidency of banking for the Northern Trust Company of Chicago. Holder of a bachelor of science degree from the University, he also earned a master's in business administration from Harvard Busi­ness School. Reidy joined the Northern Trust Company in 1959. 
John A. Adams '56, manager of Grey Ad­vertising Inc.'s Detroit office, was elected a vice-president of the advertising agency this fall. Prior to joining Grey Advertising in 1965 he was with N. W. Ayer & Son and the General Electric Photo Lamp De­partment. 
St. Iklary's and a son at St. ^feinrad's Seminary. 
Bob's address is 3521 Sunnj-dale, Blnningham, 
&Iich. Those who knew Viisinia best have the 
most complimentary things to say about her. 
Wc renew our remembrance of Claire Fcrriter 
who died in May, 1965, as reported in the column 
last spring. Husband TOAf FERRITER MD, 86 
Atwater Terrace, Springfield, Mass., tvoXt sons and 
four daughters are being brave in making their 
accommodations to her absence. Tom is looking 
forward to the Class Reunion in '69. He mentions 
seeing CLETE SCHNEIDER, "Old Faithful," also 
FRED WAGNER, then president of the Scira In­
ternational Club, at a Massachusetts meeting. Tom 
aUended TOMMY SHEA's testimonial in Man­
chester, Conn, last spring on his retirement from 
HamDton Standard for reasons of health. Among 
those present at a great party for a great guy wtre 
JOHN F. BURKE and PHIL PHILBIN of Clin­
ton, Mass. and BILL HURLEY *28 and JIM 
KELLY '30. 
Tom was present also for JOE JACHYM's tes­timonial on his retirement from coaching at West­field (Mass.) Trade School after 25 years. John will continue to serve as guidance counselor. "He Icx^ as though he could pitch nine innings today without too much difficulty," Tom goes on to say in his letter. "This was also a great tribute to a great guy. AfILT PIEPUL '41 dropped by the house before his testimonial in nearby Chicopce in Ibfay. He is looking forward to his new challenge as backfield coach at Holy Cross. Also had a nice letter from TIM MOONEY '30 concerning Tommy Shea's party." Tom himself is director of the dcpt. of anesthesiology at Providence, Mass. and con­sultant at Noble Hosp., Westficld, Mass. 
CHARLES J. RHIN died Oct. 6. We received this information from hts daughter, Afrs. A. Di­iilaao Jr., 5612 Alan St., Aliquippa, Pa, As secre­tary, may I extend the sympatliy of the Class and remembrance in our prayers. 
Returns continue to arrive in reply to our questionnaire of last summer. If you have not been mentioned in the column please be patient. Like Ara, your secretary enjoys ha\ing a lead at half time as too often there is no backlog of Class news. Keep sending me news of yourself and your family, and assume that I may be saving the best for the last. Actually, I'm in general trying to use it in the order in which it arrived. 
MORIT2 A. (GUS) DIETER, 11008 Louis Dr., S.E., Huntsville, Ala. has been with NASA for the past four years. He is a general engineer on the Saturn IB project. Gus and Willodean have been married for 30 years and arc the proud grand­parents of seven. Their son Taylor is with the US Navy Corps in Okinaira and son MICHAEL '60 has continued his education at Missouri U. where he obtained an &1A in '65 and is now work­ing toward a Ph.D. 
ROBERT BAILEY of 982 Riverside Dr., South Bend is director of marketing services with As­sociates Investment Co. where he has been em­ployed for 20 years. He plans to attend the Re­union '69. BILL SIDENFADEN, 260 Hacienda Dr., Arcadia, Calif., president of SubuHian Gas, Pomona, ^ncc 1948, continues to guide and expand his company which has for 17 consecutive years experienced substantial increases in sales, earnings and dividends paid. Marketing areas vow embrace 17 states, Canada and Peru. Bill finds time to de­vote to his family of 12 children and one grand­child and to keep abreast of trends in Catholi­cism. Perhaps you recall that he has been honored as a Knight of St. Gregory. 
GEORGE C. WANEK, 1409 12th St., Aurtira, Ndi., is retired but continues to be involved in management of his farms, in electronic research and in golf. Unfortunately, his itife Martha was a F^. , 1963 victim of cancer. George has three sons: . ThcHnas who has a cattle farm near Giltner, Neb.; George A. who is an Air Force captain in Weis­baden, Germany; and Alike who is a senior in the school of pharmacy, Creightoa U. He has one grandchild, Afary K. 
EDWARD J. FAHEY, 839 Lincoln Ave., St. t^ul, Alton., continues as district special represen­tative of N.W, BcII Telephone. Perhaps we urU see him in '69 if not before. JOSEPH P. HART­NETT JR., 56 Archer Dr., Bronxville, N.Y., is VP of Irving Trust Co. and sa\-es time each fall for travel in Europe, BASIL RAUCH, Outer Is­land, Stony Creek, Conn., is professor and de­partment chairman of history at Barnard Col. of Columbia U. He is chairman of the American Smdies Program. Basil is a member of the Ccn­tmy Assn., New York, and is also an honorary member of Phi Beta Kappa. His second marriage in 1964 was to Elizabeth Flower Hird ^vho has had a career in teaching, sculpturing and archi­tecture. Basil's world travels are truly extensive. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

His brother Rufus Rauch is a teacher of English at XD. 
JERRY OUELETTE, 440 N.E. 114 St., Miami. Fla., has been a physical cducatioa teacher in Miami for the past 20 years and is eligible for retirement next year. He is past Grand Knight of the K of C, 1961-62. His son Rev. RENE OUE­LETTE OFM is stationed at St. Anthony's Friary, St. Louis, Mo. His daughter Mrs. John GrifBn, mother of three children, resides in Miami. Jerry has visited with BILL BISER and with BOB WIL­LL\MS and plans to be back in '69. 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT O'Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

^ ^ ^ ^^ ^ Belated Season's Greetings ^BM^^^"^^B^B to all the men of the 
• ^ 4 ^ • Class of 1931. I hope that I ^^^ <^^ ^ I 1967 will bring an in­
crease in news for -the Class column as there has not been too much to report this past year other than the success of our recent Reunion. 
I am sorry to report the passing of two of our classmates, JOHN C. RADOSEVICH and JO­SEPH F. BOYLAND. I remember both men from campus days although I have not seen John in many years. He was an executive with the Calumet Marine Market and is survived by his widow, three daughters and one son. Joe, I remember well having lived next door to him in Howard Hall. I had quite a talk with Joe Deeb last June about Joe Boyland and he indicated that Joe had been in failing health for some time. He had been in the insurance business and is survived by his widow and three children. Sympathy and prayers of the Class are extended to their families. I am having Iklasses offered this Christmas for all deceased classmates. 
BOB GORE was in town this fall and talked with EDDIE RYAN who said that Bob had re­turned to his first love, raising orchids. NOEL GIES, now with Flinkote Corp., Los Angeles, was in Chicago for a meeting and we had some time to visit. He sees ED SHEERAN frequently. Both Noel and Ed attended the So. Cal.-Notre Dame game festivities. Noel also mentioned having seen ED RY.AN and JOE DUNNE at the game. He also had a letter from BOB PIGGOTT who is in the real estate business in SealUe, Wash. I also had a note from FRED SWINT, now living in Nashville, Tenn. Fred has recovered from a month in the hospital and is now feeling fine. Many of us who lived in Morrisscy Hall remember Fred with his phonograph and collection of popular dance tunes of the '30's. I also heanj from F. X. MURPHY, Roswell, N. XL and hope that he will make an­other trip to Chicago soon. 
Please remember our deceased classmates in your prayers and I hope that 1967 will be a great year for all of you. 
JAMES T. DOYLE 1567 Ridge Ave., Apt. 308, Evanston, III. 60201 
A fine letter from our Class president, senator IKE TERRY has been received and follows in part. "It has been a 

1932 
long time since I have written to you but I have been in a very busy campaign for state senator. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
My campaign proved very successful last Nov. 8, so now I have a little time to consider our Class Reunion which is coming up next spring. 
"I have contacted NAPIE NAPOUTANO and Father JOHN WILSON CSC and they have consented to act as co-chairmen on arrangements at Notre Dame. They will be working with JOHN THURIN *59 of the Alumni OflSce setting up the arrangements for our Reunion. I h<^ie that we can make this a very successful Class gathering. I hope soon to announce some other committees In various areas to talk it up so that wc can have good representation for all areas (^ the country. 
"1 had the pleasure of talking to VANCE UHLMEYER who lives in Madison and is em­ployed in the engineering depart, of the Wisconsin Power and Light Co. I told him to lay plans for the Reunion and he agreed to do so. DREW McGU.-VN has been appointed postmaster in Bamboo. He spends most of his time on the golf course so I see very little of him. HERB GIORGIO wrote recently and said he would do all he could to make the Reunion very successfuL I think if ^\% all get together we can have real good turnout come this spring." 
Thanks, Senator, for that presidential message. Wc feel certain your words will be well heeded. 
It ^v•as with great regret that we learned of the death of FRANCIS MORRISON on Sept. 2 in Rochester, N. Y. He b survived by his widow and two brothers, ARNOLD *35 and REGINALD '37. A requiem Alass was said for him on the campus by Rev. THOMAS O'DONNELL CSC. 
A note from Brother BONAVENTURE FOLEY CSC states: "After serving 12 years at ND on the Brothers' Provincial Council, I was elected at the 1962 General Chapter to serve on the General Council of the Congregation of Holy Cross here in Rome, Italy," His address is Santa Croce« Via Aurelia Antica 391, Rome. 
KELLY POWERS writes from 124 Haven Ave. Mount Vernon, N.Y. that he is anxiously looking forward to the Reunion. He said: **I definitely plan to attend our 35th Class Reunion and hope to see a big turnout of classmates, espeinally many of my old friends from the Midwest. I am still with the Continental Casualty Co. I am now the regional claims director in this area. I %vas at the Navy game in Philadelphia and enjoyed seeing some familar faces there." 
Among recent changes of address are NOBLE HARBAUGH, to 2I5W La Playa Ce., Cupertino^ Calif. 95014; Brother BENOIT FRIGON CSC, to Holy Cross Jr. Col.. Notre Dame; Rev. LOUIS PUTZ CSC, to Moreau Seminary; Rev. HARRY F. STEGNL\N CSC, to St. Bernard's Parish, 110 Church St., Watcrtown, Wis. 53094; EVRON REI.XBOLT, to 3669 Eileen Way, Santa Barbara, Cal. 93105; JOE SIMKO, to 6403 N. Robinwood, Peoria; Lt. GERARD HODGES, to 1246 Hilkrest Rd., South Bend; BILL McCORAOCK, to P. O. Box 4, Cocoa, Fla. 
RAY GEIGER %vas here recently in his capadty of philom and editor of Farmerf Almanac, and was heard on CBS radio as the weather expert. Ray says he has encountered great enthusiasm for the Reunion and expects to assist IKE TERRY in the promotion. 
JAMES K. COLLINS 
2982 Torrington Rd., 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
We learned with deep regret of the recent death of PETER QUINN of Bloom­

1933 
field, N.J. Peter was the proprietor of a local funeral home for many ycois and wzs also a director of the First Savings and Loan Assn. in Bloomfield. He is survived by his widow and two sons. The oldest, Peter, was a graduate of the Class of *60. 
From MAURY DeWALD we also learned of the recent death of HARRY MURPHY of Alma, Afich. His widow Nedra and two sons survive. To each of the families we extend our sympathy and assurance of our prayers. 
In Paradisum Deducant Te ArtgeU 

LUCIEN KEMPF, who is our Class agents writes that he is pleased with the assistance given to him by JIM GARRIGAN of Rutherford. N.J.. PAT BURNS from Natchez, Miss., Dr. ARTHUR TUTALA of Short Hills, N.J. and JOHN GRIM­MINS of Pittsburgh. From these and others he has received many welcome suggestions. Your continuing support is appreciated by Lucien. 
Over the ND-OlUahoma game weekend Lndes entertained Father JIM DONNELLY aid a bolt o{ Holy Cross Brothers bom St. Edwani's U. at his home in Lindsay, OUa. Father LEON BOARMAN CSC was recently transferred frail the Church of St. Mary of the Assumption in Waco, Tex. to Mother of Sorrows F^iiisb in Burnet, Tex. Father LAWRENCE BROESTL CSC iias a new adcfaesi in Innshrack. He now resides at Hotel Ffcnaon—Steinbock, Akirans 761, Bei Innsbruck, Tyrol, Austria; LAWRENCE J. DUNDA's new address is 2830 Fkircs St., San Mateo, Calif. 9M03; CURRIER J. HOLMAN can now be reached at I2S Momingnew, Denison, Iowa 51442. 

At the Navy game weekend in Philadelphia we visited %rith both CHARLIE CONLEY of Havertown, FSi. and PETE CONNELLY of Rochester. Pete and Dotty stopped off in New Yolk en route to the game. We were able to visit briefly before he left to attend the pre-game rally at the Ben Franklin. ED ECKERT was tmable to get to the Navy game because of a conflict in dates. He and CUrolyn were at St. John Fisher Cd. in Rochester, N.Y. with his son Jerry for parents' weekend. Christopher Rohrs, now a Fordham IVep quarteri>ack, expects to be at Notre Dame next year. Young Chris, in addition to playing football, is highly ranked on both the tennis :md golf teams at the Prep. 
We received a welcome note from WILLIAM HANIFIN formerly of Peoria, IQ. Bill has been living in Hawaii for the past 30 years. During the past summer he was visited by BILL MOTTSETT '34 and Capt. ROBERT LEE USN '32, 1( ^ officer now stationed at Peari Harbor. Bill's address is 4215 Puulani PI., Honolulu 16. Father FRANK GARTLAND CSC who is voca­tional director at Holy Cross Seminary at North Easton, Mass. was one of the welcoming fathers at StonehiU Col. Freshman Weekend. 
FRANCIS DILLMAN is an engineer connected with the Board of Education in Chicago. JOSEPH DOCKENDORF is a practicing architect with the Chicago firm of Gaul & Voosen. DONALD DRAPER b claims manager for the Motor VeUde Casualty Co. in Chicago. DONALD GARRITY b an architectural engineer and an officer of the Chicago firm of Garrity Co. EDWIN GAUSSELIN is the proprietor of the beer distributing firm of Kool-Rite Sales Co. in Chicago. 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017 

1934 
EDWARD F. MANSRELD 523 W. Hillsdale, San Mateo, Cal. 94403 

1935 
FRANK T. McGUIRE John Deere, S.A., Postfach 949 69 Heidelberg, West Germany 
Before too much time cbpses — rather before I get caught short—it is time for another 

1936 
news report such as it IS—or win not be—unless news is forthcoming soon and fast. I am abaid I have so little to repwt at this writing. So please, fellows, if TOU wish to have something to read in your column get busy and send me your letters. 
Some time ago I recnved a report firom GEORGE MEAGHER who b now "honorable." He is living at 1100 Highland Ave., Rochester, N.Y. 14620 and is married and a self-employed lawyer. Received a nice letter from FRED GABRIEL who has moved from Dalton, Mass. to Bradford, Pa. 16701 at 5 Brown Ave. Fred did not give me too much news. Accordii^ to his letter he is still unpacking as be just recently moved. I know Fred b an MD and probably has accepted another position in a hospital in Bradford. When I get some infonnaticm for certain I will pam it on to 
TOO. He said he couldn*t make the Reunion in TOM HARDART has been named as diief 
spite of how much he uiould have liked to and executive officer for Horn & Hardart Co., opcratoci iuiows he would Imvc had a wonderfully good of the Automat dimn. 
time. I supplied him with details of our Reunion ROBERT J. "BOB" &EAZANEC died Dec 6 of 
in a pre\ious letter. a heart attack at home, 16711 W. Rufc Kd., 
1941 
Recently, we made a short \nsit to SONNY Cleveland. Bob, who gave me the nicknaiae CHURCH and his family in North Plainfield, "Swede" the first night we ate together at Notre 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN 

N.J. and was he surprised to see us. He wondered Dame, was an ardent member of every organizatioa how we ever found his home. We did have a bit he belonged to which included the Czech Guild Spettman & Madden, of a problem finding it—it was already dark and of Cleveland, the Serra Club, the N D Club and somehow we got tied up in trafHc on the most the Holy Name Society. After his first mfe died 342 Madison Ave., New York, congested highway in New Jersey. We had a in 1955, lea^ng him with two daughters and four very lovely \Tsit with Sonny and his family. He sons, he helped found the Canicians, an organiza­N.Y, 10017 
loola fit as a fiddle and looks as if he could still 
play GO minutes of football as he did for ND a 
few years ^o . Hope to get in touch with Sonny 
again and meet some of our other '36 classmates 
in this area and will report on this when it occurs. 
Received a very nice letter recently from ANDY HUFNAGLE in which was enclosed a colored snapshot of Andy, JOE DOXNIXO. JOE KEN­NEDY and myself which brought back a lot of fond memoHcs of our past Reunion. Also enclosed in Andy's letter is the great story of Andy's maldng a retreat during the Na\7 game weekend. WiU w*rite it up lor my next issue if you wish. 
LARRY PALKOVIC 
301 Mechanic St., 
Orange, NJ. 07050 

1937 
reunion 
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. Box 275, Loke Lenape, Andover, N.J. 07821 
1966 was a good year despite Nov. 8 which made me, as a dem­ocrat, one of the 

1938 
chosen few in our 

legislature. The era of Ara burst into full bloom 
and so did some '38ers who returned for the 
games. FRANCIS "BUB" CROWLEY, the 
Lenngton colonel, pharmacist and horse racer, 
made it to (and presumably from) the Duke 
game as did JOHN O'CONNOR of Indianapolis, 
who the week before ^v-as named a St. John 
Bosco medal recipient for distinguished %%'oric for 
the CYO, and LEN SKOGLUND who was 
nominated for the Alumni Board. 
I missed Dr. D.AN MONAGHAN at the Army game but he wrote from the Ft. Sam Houston Brooke Army Jkfedical Center In San Antonio where he is now assigned. Said he saw TEX HAGGAR, whose brother JOE '45, is also running for the Alumni Board, at the Oklahoma game. TOM SHEnis, ye ole Modcmaircs maestro, wrote that he has returned to California, 17250 Parthenia St., Northridge, Calif, after two fast years (at our age they're getting faster) in New York. LAWRENCE "HOOK" KERWIN visited him from Cleveland and he hears, but not. often enoi^h, from "DOC" SHERROD, ED KAV­ANAUGH and TOMMY ATKINSON. Tom, of Shells and Bruno Afanagement, has a son Peter at Portland U., son John a senior at Notre Dame HS in Sherman Oaks and another son and two giris stiU at home. 
TOM GRAVES also moved west from Green­wich, Conn. . to 253 Polhcmiu Ave., Atherton, Calif. The religious members of our Class have manned to get nearer home — no doubt to cel^rate the National Championship. Father CHESTER SOLETA CSC returned to ND from Paris; Father BILL BOTZUM CSC from California to Fariey Hall; Brother EDGAR PLAS CSC from Ohio to the spanking new Holy Cross Jr. Col. at Notre Dame; whAc Father TED HUARD CSC didn't quite make it all the way back from Chile, being assigned to Sacred Heart Church in Oak­land, Calif. 
tion for widows and widowers to discuss coouDon problems. Through this he met his present wife Virginia whom he married in 1957 and whose three daughters brought his family up to mateh my total of nine — as he was always delighted to remind me. Bob graduated from St. Ignatius HS in Cleveland, was an Army Captain in WW 11 and jcnncd the First Federal Savings and Loan Co, where he was VP when he died. JACK MA­HONEY from Ashtabula sent me the notice which he had clipped from the Cleveland paper. It came the day after I had heard about Bob's death from DON HICKEY at the ND Football Banquet. At the same banquet JOHN PLOUFF told me he just left Sinclair to become an asastant to Father JOYCE at NT>. He expected to move to South Bend &om Minneapolis by New Year's. 
BURNIE BAUER 1139 Western Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46625 

1939 
JOSEPH E HANNAN 1804 Greenwood Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46614 
Our 1940 Class news 
connsts primarily of an 
urgent appeal for let­
ters, postcards or notes 
from all my loyal 

classmates. Many of you promised to help me 
at the time of the Reunion and I am stiD watting. 
Received an interesting note frc»n RAY SCHNORR which reads: "Five men of '40 and their wives had a wonderful reunion at the Army game. HUGH LAUGHNA and his wife Marie made the arrangements for our stay in Plymouth, Mich. Hugh is in personnel work at Ford Motor's Woodhaven Plant. J.C. BRENNAN and *rife Pauline, DAVID FOX and wife Mary Frances and. EDWARD JACQUES and wife Frances completed the group. Dave Fox is with Fox and Fox Ins. Son RAYMOND '64 recently returned from Europe after working for Price Forbes, Ltd., London. J.C. Brcnnan is sales director for O'Bryan Co. in Chicago. Ed Jacques is now in manufactur­ing at General Electric and recently moved to Cincinnati from Sacramento, Calif, where he was with Aero Jet Corp. Ray Schnorr and wife Eloise were the only grandparents in the group; grand­daughter Debbie is the daughter of their son William. Ray is in package design at £U Lilly & Co., Indianapolis. 
Recent address changes indicate some actinty for the following: ED SCHROETER now in Troy, Mich.; JOE SOTAK to Pepper Pike, Ohio; BEN MARNOCHA from Ariington, Va. to Ft. Lee, N.J.; JERRY SEXTON from Mt. Kisco, N.Y. to Larchmont, N.Y.; HUGH CRANE made a lengthy move from Northampton, &fass. to San Francisco; JIM a\NNON is now in Rutland, Vt.; and JOHN WILKINSON is in South Portland, Me. 
PAUL HELMUTH, senior managing partner of Hale Sz Dorr has been elected to the board of directors of W.R. Grace & Co. 
Just received sad news from South Bend. DICK STEFFANIAK, one of the guns of our Reunion committees, passed away recently. In the name of all men of '40 I extend our anccre sympathy to his two fine children. Your prayers are requested for DICK BURKE who is hospitaUzed at the time this is written. 
Please forward news items to me at my new address. 
1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 233 W. Central Ave. Lombard, III. 60148 
The MALONEs had 
a great fall with the 
football games bring­
ing many "old" class­
mates to town includ­

ing STEVE GRALIKER, still the dashing bach­
elor; MIKE CARR and his wife Betty Lou from 
Indianapolb; DON FIGEL from Davenport, whose 
son TcHn is a junior at Notre Dame; VINCE 
SHIELY and his wife Kfary — ^^c e is exec 
of Briggs and Stiatton of Kfilwaukee; Marie and 
BOB RAAF whose son is also at ND ; Meg and 
GENE SCHUMAKER from Milwaukee; Marie 
and LARRY AUBREY whose son is a junior in 
the College of Business here at ND — Larry has 
recently moved to Cinciimati from the &fiimeapolis 
area. 
I have bad a great deal of correspondence ^vith 
CHARLEY CONGER operating as the sales man­
lie r for Sedgcwick and Co. in Pouglikeepsie. 
Motty and DON CONNORS have two sons at 
N D — one a senior and one a junior in the Col­
lege of Arts and Letters. Mary and DON }b{AR­
TIN usually get up for most of the games but were 
imahle this year ouing to Don's father's illness 
and death. Don is preadent of the family com­
pany. JIM A5MUTH dropped in the office recently 
on a trip to Sunt Mary's College where his daugh­
ter Mary Ellen hopes to go next year. PHIL' 
LUCIER, presdcnt of Continental Telephones, and 
bis wife "Chariie" dropped in for a visit last year 
and we have had some correspondence recently. 
FRANK FOX is working with the college rela­
tions department of Eli Lilly and has been on the 
campus several times. All of us were saddened by 
the death of FRED BECK&fAN's wife Babette 
tiliis past summer. Fred is professor and administra­
tive head of the department of art. Corinne and 
TED MacDONALD we see frequently as they 
pass through to their sununer home on Lake 
Michigan. 
Ellen and I grow more grateful every year for 
tiie c^iportunity to be here at ND and to raise 
our family in such a wonderful emironment with 
the added attraction of making acquaintances 
among the sons and daughters of so many N D 
and Saint ^bry's friends. Kathy is a sophomore at 
Saint Mary's wlule Mary Ann and Jane are at 
Saint Mary's Academy. Jack Jr., Carol and Susan 
round out the roster and are in grade school at 
old St. Joe's on Hill Street. 
1942 
Everyone from the Class of '42 is looking for­ward to the great Silver Anniversary Reunion next June under the leadership of Prendent Jun O'Neal. 
JOHN R. MALONE 

Local Arrangements Reunion Co<Chainttan 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 

P.O. Box 8640A, Chicago, 
III. 60680 
Dr. RICHARD MUR­RAY received the Youngstown (Ohio) Jaycecs' Frank Pumcll 

1943 
Award for community service He was honored for his interest in music and sculpture- and for his medical work uith patients bainng cleft palates. HOWARD M.\R­LOW has been appointed comptroller of the IH Solar Div., San Diego, which manufactures gas turbine engines. Mariow rendes in nearby La Jolla. JOHN J. GILUGAN gave Robert Taft a run for his money in the recent congressional elections in Ohio. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

r ^ 
nifyyn CHIEF OF ARMY CHAPLAINS 
Brig* Gem. Francis 
Ueedng Francis L. Sampson '37 "* for the first time can be a confusing matter for he is a man of many titles: chaplain, mon­signor and, most recently, US Army general. Last February padre Sampson, who has had over 20 years of military service, was promoted to the raiik of brigadier general and assigned as deputy chief of chaplains. 
As number-two man in the Army chaplaincy he is responsible for co­ordinating all programs relating to the office of the chief of chaplzdns, supervising mobilization and war planning for the Chaplaincy, di­recting all activities of chaplains which cannot be handled on the divisional level and acting in be­half of the chief of chaplains in the event of his absence. 
The new "desk" job as deputy chief of chaplains msurks a distinct change from Father Sampson's early military career during WW 
II. In June, 1942 he joined the Army and while in training at Harvard volunteered for the para­troop corps. Upon attaining jump status he was assigned to the 101st Airborne Division, the "Screaming Eagles," and made his first in-combat jump into Normandy on D-Day. His dedicated service to the wounded in the face of ad­vancing German troops, his capture by the enemy forces and his even­tual escape merited him the Dis­tinguished Service Cross, the na­tion's second highest decoration. 
Paratrooping into Holland sev­eral months later Father Sampson was again taken prisoner by the Germans. While interned in Stalag 11-A the paratrooper-priest never ceased to perform his duties as chaplain. He even managed to celebrate Christmas Mass for over 700 men in the total darkness of a blackout as Allied forces bombed the area. 
His retirement from active duty in October, 1945 found him one of the most decorated chaplains in the armed services. Among some of the medals General Sampson is privileged to weau: are: the Purple Heart, Bronze Star, Distinguished Service Cross, Dutch Lanyard, Bel­

 JL. Santpsom '37 
^an Forragerre, Korean Service 
Medal and United Nations Service 
Medal. 
Father Sampson's sojourn in civilian life was short-lived—after nine months he returned to active duty as an Army chaplain. His subsequent tours of duty have ranged from posts in the US, . Europe, Japan jmd Korea. Dur­ing the Korean conflict Father made his third in-combat jump over Sunchon. In 1963 while on duty as chaplain to the Seventh Army in Stuttgart, Germany he was named a domestic prelate by the Holy Father and formally vested in the robes of the mon­signori by His Eminence Francis Cau-dinal Spellman, vicar of the US Armed Forces. 
The soldier-priest is also a suc­cessful author and has recorded his experiences as a spiritual coun­selor to military men in the two books he has written. In 1948 he published Paratrooper Padre, an autobiographical account of his ex­periences as a war chaplain. Look Out Below appeared in 1958 and presented an inside view of the lives of the airborne combat troops. In his "spare" time Father Samp­son is also an outstanding tennis player. He has won several ama­teur titles including successive singles and doubles Army cham­pionships. 
Seal at the 51.0 Santhan Cal gaate: JDt 

DELANEY who i> gemal manner of Stedouc, 
Inc. manfartoren of office eqmpoient lA La 
Mtiada, CaGf. Ddaaey has a son wlm pbqs lor 
the contendiiig Servile B ^ in Orange Couaty. 
BOB MURPHY who is an engineer at f«rtheed 
^rciaft in Boxbank repoitej he was poUiag for 
Lockheed's SST over damate TOM VOLBERIK 
ING whom Bob lajs is at Boeing i s Seattle. 
TONY GfROLABO Sew to LA for Ae game 
arith a Chicago area Sm group wfuch had Mi^yed 
en xonte at Las Vegas. 
Dr. JACK BENNETT, chief tadolo ^ at St. 
Harjr's Hasp., San Ftandsco, came down for the 
game with his wife Maureen. BOB HEKUNG­
TON, Allied Chemical Plastics Div., has been 
named new president of the Southern CaSfoenis 
sectioo of the Sodety of Plastic Engineers. Hetw 
rington has been with Allied ance 1961 as applia* 
&as devekvment sales engineer. 
JACK WIGGINS 

5125 Briggs Ave., 
LflCrescenta, OJI. 91014 
This is vacatioa 
time!!??!! For some, 
it is bctns sptat an 
the blosterixig snowy 

ski slopes of the Rodies or oa the windnvept hardpacked hilb of the Midwest or on the cqiaOy treacherous peaks of the eastcrB US. For others, it is idling away the daj% on the hot sonny beaches of the Caribbean Islands or on the bhie tranqiul waters of the Mediterranean Sea or on the ufann dry sands of the fabulous Southwest. However, tins b not the case for everyone, probably for not as numy as one nught think. The Class of '44 still is relativefr youi^. &£uy oblations must be met before these Insure moments are at one's beck and call. Yet, how fortunate it is to have the privilege of dreaming and hopng and planning. 
There is sad news to report—the death on Nov. 6 of Dr. ROBERT \VTrUCKI. He had been a research chemist for Astro-physics Research Corp., Santa Barbara, Cal., at the time of !us death. To his widow, hb son and his four daii^htcrs go our prayers and sympathy. His name now is added to that ever increanng Htany of deceased *44ers. 
A very welcome letter was received from FRANK VIGNOLA who, as in previous years, finds more time to write while on his annual two weeks Naval Reserve duty. This recent sesuon in Washington, a symposium on defense and strategic intelligence, was much more in tune for a person of his age and build and not nearly as strenuous as the sea survival cxerdse the year befme. Frank, hb wife and three sons attended three games at ND in the fall and for the opener against Purdue went together with STRATTE GOORLAS, JIM PLATT and GENNE PILAWSKI and their wives. Frank recently moved to 3S5 Sheridan Rd., Winnetka, lU. and discovered soon after locating in that north Chicago suburb that fellow classmate Dr. BILL FORD practices ortb* odonria in that area. 
STRATTE COORLAS enjoys '*RoneV' as moch as he did in the eariy '40's. Frequently he and lus {akxtuif drive over from Clucago on Sunday just 90 he can indulge in his favorite double platter of spaghetti. His son graduates in June and naturally plans to follow in his father's footsteps at ND. 
A report on several Texans—^from Dallas— FRED EICHORN JR. is a chemical engineer with General Portland Cement Co., enjoys golf, tennis and fishier and currently is president of the ND Club of Dallas. DAN FOLEY is ex­ecutive VP of Strickland Motor Freight Trans­portation Co. SAM WING JR. is president of lus own company (Venetian blinds), goI& whenever he can xad h active in parish work and fund­nisng drives. From San Antonio, RAY TOLSON JR. is president of Laco Chenucals, Inc. From El Baso, ROBERT 0*MALLEY is manager of South­western Glass & Blillworic Co. ^ ^ 
Frran here, there and everywhere KEITH BRADY, Bellcvue, Wash, is an aeronautical en ^ neer and in hb losure enjoys skiing and camping. EDWARD J. BURKE, North Syracuse, N.Y. b chief in^»ection man^ter for Carrier ASr Con­dtiomng Co. ROBERT L. DUNNE, NYC, b piAilidty director for "T! ^ Week Magarine," docs free lance writing and was awarded the New Jersey Catholic Press Assn.'s annual ota* tion. DAVID BlcLAUGHLIN, Worthington, 
1944 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
Ohio IS a sales manufacturer's rcprcfcntative. ROBERT J. BYRNES, Devon, Pa., father of eight sons and one daughter, is manager of purchases for Smith, Kline & French working in Philadelphia. His hobby is oil painting. JAMES 
G. CROWLEY JR. is president of Cherokee Textiles, Inc., Spartanburg, S. C. EUGENE "MIKE" KELLEY is assistant sales manager for Hoosicr Veneer Co.^ Indianapolis. Also from the same city is PAUL LARSON who is manager of the employee dcviJopmcnt di\'ision of the US Na\-y in that area. TOM NOLAN, Boca Raton, Fla. real estate broker, is president of the Midget Football Booster Club and ^\'as instrumental in initiating the Turkey Bowl (Interstate) football game held annually in Boca Raton. JOHN J. MARTIN, Bcthcsda, Md. is a senior staff member at the Institute for Defense .Anal):scs. Recently^ he completed a book, Atmospheric Reentry pub­lished by Prentice-Hall. Prior to his present assignment, working on ph>-sical oceanography and atmospheric reentry ph>-sics, Jack spent a year at the UK Roj-al .Aircraft & Establistment. Fam­borough, England. TAYLOR LYMAN is director of reference publications for the American Society for Metals headquartering in Shaker Heights, Ohio. 
Continuing the potpourri, P.\UL CARR, War­wick, R. I. is a sales engineer for the Grinnell Corp. and cnjoj's bridge and gardening when time permits. ALBERT KAIRIS is a realtor and appraiser in Edwardsburg, Mich. His leisure moments are spent in golfing, boating and fishing. CYRIL DESMET, father of seven, is a quality assurance representative for the Ford Motor Co. and lives in the Detroit suburb, Grosse Pointe Woods. ROBERT HALLEIN, Cleveland, Ohio is VP of the Atlantic .Aluminum & Metal Dis­tributors, Inc. JOHN COLLINS, Pittsburgh, Pa. is regional sales manager in the mining and metal division of Union Carbide Corp. JOHN MORAN is president of a retail fur store in Chicago. GERALD J. WELCH, Winficld, III. father of 10 children, is VP and general manager of Nixon-Baldivin Plastics Div. of Tcnnaco Chemicals, Inc. J.AMES DANAHER, Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich, reports that his hobbies are skiing, photography, travelling and the stock market. What Jim means by the latter hobby is somewhat questionable in the confusing market of today. 
FRANK VIGNOLA ^vho w ^ responsible for sending out the Class questionnaire two years ago again has volunteered to contact every *44er. Within a few months you will receive another communique. He feels and your secretary agrees wholeheartedly that it is none too early to plan for the great Silver Jubilee Reunion in '69. Your suggestions and comments to insure tlie success of that event will be appreciated greatly by ^-our Class officers. Remember, "Rise and Shine in '69." 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
Your secretary met with HARRY WAL­TERS, our 25th An­niversary Chairman, in 

New York the last week in November. Harry is very anxious to have a real great Reunion. If you have any ideas or suggestions, pass them along to him at Suite 620, 60 East 42nd St., Ncu' York, N.Y. 10017. 
We extend our felicitations and best wishes to the BOB ROSSITERs who walked down the aisle in October. 
1945 
RAY KOPITUK is now VP, Aircraft Plating, Inc., Miami, Fla., and lives at 5950 S. W. n2th St.y Miami. Ray Jr. graduates from high school this June. Father STAN RDZOK CSC has been transferred to Christ the King Parish in South Bend. Father D.AN CURTIN CSC has returned to Corby Hall on the campus from Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn. Brother AUGUSTUS PATIN CSC has been assigned to Holy Cross High School, River Grove, HI. Saw "LONG JOHN" KELLY the "Great Swisher" of our time at the Navy game. John is with the FBI and is assigned to H Q in Washington. 
FRANK M. LINEHAN 
G.E. Co., 600 Main Sh, Johnson City, N.Y. 13790 
With the conclu^on of the great 1966 football season I find that a few of our classmates 
1946 
\\-ere able to get away 
Irom their radios and TV to send on some news. 
RUDY LOPEZ wrote to say that he was quite 
pleased to see the Class Reunion picture in the 
recent ALUMNUS and furthermore in that he was 
able to recognize such faces as TOM BURNS, ED 
MIESZKOWSKI and NICK COMMISA. The 
Lopez clan includes six bo>-s and four girls and so 
can share the title of "Father of the Class of *46" 
wth the ED FISHERs (unless their count in­
creased since our last writing). Rudy, his wife 
and family now reside at 435 Fair\-iew Ave., 
Siena Madrc, Calif. Drop them a line, they wiould 
like hearing from )-ou. 
PAUL DOYLE was kind enough to take some time from 2us hard pressed job with Murphy Corp. Alcraux, La. to pass on some ncu3. The Doyles had a pleasant ^i t from GEORGE R. MULLER who is on temporary assignment in the New Orleans area. George and his wife have eight fine children. Both Paul and George are already making plans to attend the 25th Reunion. CRAIG 
A. HEWITT has a new address and now lives at 5475 Childress Ave., St. Louis, Mo. Craig is employed by the Wollinckrodt Chemical Co. in St. Louis and he and his wife Cathy are expecting their second child very soon. He too plans to make the next Reunion. 
JAMES A. B.ASIL JR. now manages the resin production plant of Rcichhold Chemicals in Cicero, 
111. Jim and his wife Jean were among the lucky ones who were able to see the home foot­ball games. Jim looks forward to the 25th also. 
To conclude and on behalf of the Chss of '46 my heartiest congratulations to the team and its coaches for a job well done and for prodding much enjoyment during an exciting season. 
PETER P. RiCHISKI 
60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
COUNTDOWN REACHES THREE 
This is the antepenulti­mate (Ed. NOTE — that means the one before the next to the
1947 
last.) issue of the ALVSSSUS before the Class of '47 laimcfaes its **IVoject Reunion Weekend" capsule into sub­orbital fiight around the Golden Dome. WeVe ordered an open-end missile to be able to ac­commodate up to the reasonably late last-minute as many classtronauts as possible. Bring your own crash helmets. If you need a really compeUing reason for coming to this conclave, bear in mind this is the first Reunion in history at which meat wiU be featured on the Friday menu! We may bring back mystery balls for old times* sake. 

RclntiOMS between Notre Dame and Michigan State University extend well beyond the traditional fall gridiron rivalry. One of the best indications in the friendship developed by the two schools' presidents. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, and Dr. John A. Hannah, seen here together at a testimonial 
GLEANINGS 

Please remember in your prayers the fathers of 
JIAI PADESKY, who died Oct. 20 and JACK 
NOON.AN who died Nov. 20. 
On Oct. 26 a son, their first, was bom to 
Monique and FRANCIS KOB.AYASHI; the father 
is still a professor of engineering science at ND. 
J. PAUL MEEK has been appointed assistant V P of the Federal Reser\e Bank of New York. CHARLIE POINS.ATTE reports an old friend, lanky JIM REGAN, xisited him in November en route to covcrins the tie-tanic ND-MSU col­lision in East I^nsing for his Springfield, Mass. newspaper. 
.After a half-year respite stateside. Brother IVAN DOLAN CSC has headed back to the Lord's out­post in East Pakistan. Another Holy Grosser, Father FRANCIS McFARL.AND has moved from Coyle HS in Taunton, Klass. to King*s Col. in Wilkcs-Barre, Pa. And our premier organist­tjrapanist, JIM "Knuckles" AfURPHY, H:as re­cently elected sec.-trcas. of the Indiana College Public Relations Assn. 
DISTAFF DISSENT 

In a recent issue of Indiana Teacher, official organ of the Indiana State Teachers Assn., ED B.ALL's wife Wanita proposed elimination of study haUs in high schools. Wanita, a teacher at Nap­panee HS, contends study-hall time is generally wasted and suggests two remedies: 1. increase each class period 10 minutes with each teacher using that time for supcrvbed ckisstimc study; or 2. di­vide pupils into smaller groups and use the time for remedial reading, speed reading, typ'ms for noncommercial students or guidance counselling. 
CORRESPONDENCE 

In the same letter which revealed the sad news 
of his Cither's death a day after being stricken 
with a coronary, JACK NOONAN reported brief­
ly on doings around the FBI's Chicago office: 
**As you may have surmised, I am quite busy as the supervisor of the fugitive squad. A good por­tion of otu" cases deal with interstate fiight of fugitives wanted by the local authorities for such crimes as murder, arson, kidnapping, robbery, bur­glary and the like." Jack and second son Tom made it to South Bend for the North Carolina game and he waxes ecstatic about the No. 1 rating accorded the Ara Legion. Conceding his duties make it difficult to forecast what his pbns will be next June, nevertheless he promises to attend the Reunion if at all possible. 
MOV IN' TIME 
'm 

Some late moves on the US checkerboard: JIM ABBOTT from Burlingame, Calif, to Colorado Ml Springs; ERVING WOLF to Denver from Chey­enne, Wyo.; GEORGE KRULL from Indianapolis to Woodland Hills, CaliL; THURMAN COSS, a stickler for sanctity, from St. P^ul to Santa, Afon­ica, CaliL; TOM SCHEITLIN from Evans\'ille, Ind., to St. Paul; Old BILL FLAHERTY from Old Saybrook to Old Lyme in old Connecticut; 
14^ 

Dr. BILL RUEVE from Belle\*ue, Neb., to Dav­enport, Iowa; Dr. VINCE CAPPELLUZZO from Greenfield, Mass. (native dty oi my brothcr-ln-iaw DICK MORAN '54, At\ '56) to Montgomery, Ala.; JIM MONAHAN from Dcs Moines, Iowa, to Fort Worth, Tex.; TOM COPPINGER from El PasOy Tex., to Reading, Mass. And Major JACK HYNES has turned up at 1st AF HQ, Stewart AFB, New York. 
COME'ON CODA 
Hark to this Reunion rhyme Start diggin' pretty soon Here it is spring planning time Around the comer: June! 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
m. 

-'^^^^^'^^^^^'^^'^------'-^'^^ 
banquet in Lansing honoring Dr. Hannah for his 25 years as head of MSU. Seated at the head table with the two presidents is Mrs. Hannah. 
JACK MILES 3218 Bentley Lane, South Bend, Ind. 46615 
Not too much to write about as usual but wc have some notes from the Alum­
1948 

ni Office that we caa 
pass on to you. ALBERT WARD has been pro­
moted to director of audit & security for Western 
Airlines. E. ANDREW STEFFEN has been elected 
VP for public affairs at the Indiana Bell Tele­
phone Co. JAMES LIST has been promoted to 
full professor in the zoology dept. at Ball State U­
ED KENEFICK, station manager of WBBM­
TV in Chicago, ran into an interesting problem in 
Yvhich a group offering spot announcements con­
taining the message "Keep in circulation the rumor 
that God is alivc" had to be turned down. His 
reason for refusing the group was that he didn't 
want to be put in a position in which he'd have 
to give equal time to a group reprcsentins the 
"God is dead" philosophy. 

The above items via the Alumni Office make me wonder why it is sent to them instead of the Class secretary. The Alumni Office and the Class secretary are not in competition as to sec who can turn up the most information so if someone is going to take time to write back to the Univer­sity about their accomplishments, they could at least drop me a note which would even give their present address. 
Had a note directly from JIM CORCORAN, the only direct contact since before the last issue from a living member of the Class of '48. Jim has recently been appointed assistant sales manager of the Moen Faucet Co. in EI>Tia, Ohio. Jim has moved from St. Clair Shores, Ikfich. to Westlake, Ohio near Cleveland. 
At the ND-Navy game in Philadelphia I was able to have a few words with the following who were in attendance: BOB SATTI, GENE DEAN, LEO COSTELLO, BILL BRACKEN, TOM MULHERN, BART JOHNSON and Elaine ED­WARDS. Among those seen in the throng were JACK KEARNY, JIM MELLO, TOM HER­BERT, NEIL KELLY, JIM LEDWITH, RUDY ANDERSON, RICK McDONALD, BRIAN M o aVRTHY and JOE WILCOX. 
The ND football games have been on television every Saturday night in the New York area and doing the highlights is FRANK TRIPUCKA. While there have been only two live games on television, the U p.m. program is a tape replay of the game that day. The tape is every bit as good as watching the game as if live and better if you don*t know the results of the afternoon game. However, who doesn't know the score nou'adays! Frank, besides being a TV celebrity, is also a dis­tributor of several premium brands of the golden nectar in North Jersey. 
At the Knute Rockne Luncheon at Afama Leone*s Restaurant in N'YC prior to the Na^-y game, I shared a tabic with LEO COSTELLO, Father MIKE HART, JIM WHITE and BILL VITALE. At the head table ^verc FRANK TRIPUCKA and DICK DEGAN. Dick is on the Hcisman Committee-
WcU this is it until the next time. The way the news is coming in I don't have to wony about the editors shearing my column. I don't go over the maximum for a column, I'm just trying to get the minimum. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd, Clifton, N.1 07013 

1949 
Gents, the cheers have subsided, the thriQ of a National Championship glow s warmly and all '49exs must feel, OS do I, that the 1966 brand of slash­ing football looked familiar. Seemed as if we were reliving our four-year tenure at Notre Dame and %vatching a classy powerhouse perform. Let's add our Congrats to a truly great 1966 team—frighten­ing in its power, punishingly stingy on defense and overall just dou-nright dangerous! Thank^ men, 
for a wonderful year. 
JACK MESCALL sent me a card (Badia Hall scores again) raving about Nick Eddy and how "explosive" the entire team looked as he witnessed the Purdue game. Jack is marketing projects man­ager of the Sentr>- Ins. Co. and is operating out of the Stevens Point, Wis. office. Thanks, Jack, for using the yellow card — only takes a minute or two, but that's enough to maintain the lines of contact. 
Rev. MEINRAD GAUL OSB also used the card approach as he **checked in*' from St. Martin's Col. in Olj-rapra, Wash. Father Gaul is in his 3Ist year of teaching history at St. Martin's and doubles in the office as alumni director. Obviously then he can speak knouingly when he says: **I think this idea of the yellow (ALUMNUS reply) card is really a good one." On weekends the good father assists in parish work which certainly fills out the sched­ule. Says Father Gaul: "Right inspiring to see the progress Notre Dame h making and wish I could be more active — but a religious finds it difficult to do more than pray; and cheer for the teams." Well done! 
A fine letter arrived on Dec. 1 from La Ceiba, Honduras, signed by the top banana himself, CHARLIE BAUM.AN. Chariie is the manager of engineering for the Standard Fruit Co. in La Ceiba. His very humorous letter tells of the ar­ri\'al in 1966 of his and Gwen's foturth youngster, Mark Piiih'p. The Baumans are completing two years in Honduras where Charlie commands a work force of 800 and the engineering challenge of growing more than 10 pereent of all the bananas shipped to the US. Saj-s Charlie: "No TV down here yet, but great swimming, bridge and ba­nanas" — and not that other brand he reminds us. 
A few short bursts up the middle: BILL FISCHER returned to football temporarily when he helped coach the College All-Stars as they met the Green Bay Packers in Chicago, Aug. 5. Oh those Packers! MYLES DUFFY has been appoint­ed manager of sales for the industrial motor and generator business section (D.C. division) of the GE Co. I would file this under the heading of current news, I think. M. JAMES LASKOSKE has been named VP of the Sler-Bath Piunp Div. of Bilbert & Barker Mfg. Co. He had previously been general manager of that division. LAW­RENCE PARROTT has been elected to the new post of executive VP and general manager for Mc­Dowell Mfg. Co. He will be in charge of all operations and personnel for the company. 
Remember in your prayers the many Class mem­bers who have died. The ALUMNUS continually posts new names as notifications are received- Our latest loss is OTTO J. POZGAY who died Sept. 
22. He \%tis operator of a sand and gravel business in South Bend and had served six terms in the Indiana General Assembly. His widow and four children survive. Kindly pray for them all. 
For the first time in months I am out of mail! This could portend a skimpy column w*hen next we meet, but it need not be if only a half dozen of our many hundreds will send me a note — or a card. If you don*t want to rave about your per­sonal successes, perhaps I can help you locate a hall classmate who hasn*t answered your Christmas card of 1962. Ma>-be I have the mailing address of **that guy across the hall" who still owes you 
54.50. One five-cent card could produce wonders! It most certainly ^rill help me produce the Idnd of coltunn you deserve. 
Once again thanks to all who helped in '66. 
LEO L. WESLEY 155 Driftwood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
1950 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 Monserrote St, Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
jm JP^ ^^ m ED SULLIVAN sent a 
^m ^L^B L^^^H note announcing the ar­
m ^^^m ^^^ m rival of Ruth Alice on 
m^^^^F m Oct. 24. This raised the 
total of ^I s to three and the grand total to seven. Ed married Lticy Ottney in 1954 and tbdr cluldren are Eileen, 9; Greg, 8; Paul, 6; Phnip, 5; Robert, 4; Bemice, 1, and Ruth Alice. Ed recently took up residence at 19 Fredrick Dr. in Newport News, Va., where he is an asristant section head of the fluid mechanics section for NASA. Ed and Lucy H-ouId greatly appreciate a visit from any of their classmates in the vicinity. 
GEF^ DeBORTOLI in town over the Thanks­giving weekend was seen watching the Southern Cal game on closed circuit televiuon. Congratula­tions to Gene on his promotion to contract man­ne r for Koppeis in Httsbuigh, where he lives at 1612 Greencrest Dr. Gene married Palma Grillo and they have three offspring: Tommy, 8; David, 7; and Rena Marie, 5. 
We also had a note from JOE STASCH who is district manager for the San Bernardino office of Autonetics IKv. of North American Aviation. Joe and his wife, the former Edtth Louise Griffiths, recently moved to 1534 Margarita Dr., Redlands, Calif. Their two children are Paul Robert, who is 8 and a sister Sarah Ann, 11. 
Saw IWNDY McNALLY at the Rockne Dinner m Chicago De c 5. Randy went to medical school at St. Louis U. and was graduated in 1955. He is now an accomplished plastic siugeon and prac­tices at Presbytcrian-St. Luke's Hosp. in Chicago. Randy married Kfargaret Kenny and they live at 1140 Donegal in Northbrook, lU. Their nine chil­dren are Anne, Maureen, Edu-ard, Sheila, Jean, Randall, Patrick, Ryan and Thomas. Tiicir age span is from 12 years (Anne) down to one year. 
JOE SHELLY was also at the dinner. Joe was graduated from Northwestern Law School in 1954, and is secretary and general counsel for North Shore & Central Illinois Freight Co. in Hodgkins, HI. Joe married Barbara Byrnes. They have Joe in , who is five years old and has just been sepa­rated from his tonsils. 
JAMES JENNINGS Borg-Wamer Corp., 200 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. 60604 
1952 
Dear Fellow Classmates: 
As a preface to oiu- Class report this month we wish to alert all members of the Class of '52 to our upcoming Reunion in June. Plans should be laid now so that our Class will be well represented. 0%*er the next several months you will be advised of all the necessary particulars. But now is the time to make the necessary amingements to be in South Bend June 9, 10 and 11. 
HANK McCORMACK, President 
JOHN BLADEL has been appointed an account executive in Walston & Co., Inc's Jacksonville, Fla. office. Since 1962 he has been in securities with the investment firm. CHARLES CHRISTEN has been appointed an associate in the architectural planning engineering firm of Deeter Ritchey Sip­peL CLYDE HOFFXLXN MS '52 and hU wfe Bette sent a letter from Kabul, Afghanistan where he is teaching courses in sophomore calculus and senior E £ aiul is administering the EE department of > acbool whose ttaff inchides one other Amer­ican and four Afghans. 

ERNEST L. MESTER JR. of Florissant, Mo. has been named the new sales rep for the greater St. Louis territoty of the Hamilton Watch Co. 
ALUMNI t IN THE 
Congrats
NEWS 

John T. Hastings '53 has been named vice-president of sales for the Ohio Bronze Company of Cleveland. A graduate of the Uni­versity's College of Commerce, John has been with Ohio Bronze since 1961. 
Michael T. Monahan '60, assistant cashier at the Manufacturers Na­tional Bank of Detroit, has been named second vice-president. A graduate of the College of Business Administration, he joined the bank's credit department after serv­ing a year of active duty in the US Army. He is presentiy employed in the commercial loan department 
Michael Coughlin '62 was ordained a priest of the Holy Cross on Dec. 17 in Lakewood, Ohio. Father Coughlin, who was principal cele­brant at a concelebrated Mass in his home parish on Dec. 18, studied theolog)' at Seminario de Santa Cruz in Santiago, Chile. His first assignment is to Notre Dame %vhere he is studying biology. 
Richard V. Warner '62 was ordained a Holy Cross priest on Dec. 17 in Lakewood, Ohio. His first Mass was concelebrated in St. Luke's Church in that city the follo\ving day. Father Warner, who studied theology at Seminario de Santa Cruz, has returned to Chile to serve on the faculty of St. George's College. 
Edward C Krause '63 was ordained a Holy Cross priest Dec. 17 in the Chapel of Holy Cross College in Rome. Son of Ed Krause '34, he is studying for his licentiate in theology at Rome's Gregorian Uni­versity. Father Krause is expected to return to South Bend next sum­mer and will celebrate his first solemn Mass at that time in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
JAMES F. MUSCHELLER, a rep of the Baltimore general agency of National Life Ins. Co. of Ver­mont, has earned membership In the firm's Tenth ^Tsident's Club. He also won an eligibility to attend the club's educational conference held in Miami Beach in March. He lias also been avi'ard­ed the Chartered Life Under%vr>ter (CLU) designa­tion at the national confennent exercises of the Amer. Col. of Life Underwriters. 
JAMES J. BARTLETT has been appointed man­ager of cost accounting for the GE heavy military electronics dept. in Syracuse. HERMAN SZYMAN­SKI PhD '52 has been appointed science advisor to the Buffalo district of the Food and Drug Admin­istration. RONALD E. ZIER has been elected a VP of Howard Chase Assoc., Inc., consultants in economics and public affairs. 
WALTER J. LANDRY, formerly with the Em­bassy in Asuncion, Paraguay, is presently based in Louisiana, Minn. JOHN DELANEY MD, PhD '52 is currently doing research in the department of surgery, U. of Minnesota. JACK L. TOTTY was ordain«] June 1, 1963 in the Miami Cathedral. CHARLIE PAQUETTE, Springfield, Mass., is the proud father of seven children, six of whom are daughters. 
ROLAND A. KOHLBECK, reports that he is presently employed by a land de\'eIopment firm, Schroedel Construcion Co., Milwaukee, Wis., re­siding at Fox Point, Wis. with wife and children, Terry Joseph; Susan and Patricia Lynne. Linda, another daughter, was killed by an automobile in October of I960 while returning from school. CARL R. CUNNINGHAM, formerly a teacher of musical theory of Punahou School and the U. of Hawaii, was granted a fellowship by the U. of Southern California under its project for the training of music critics. In his role as Sacred Heart Church choirmaster he brought many neg­lected masterpieces of liturgical music to live per­formance in Honolulu. His own compositions have been performed in both Los Angeles and Hono­lulu. ED ELSTON, presently residing at 150 Ben­nett Rd., Camillus, N.Y., writes of seven children and that he is a sporting goods buyer for the GEM department stores. 
WILLIAM D. FOTE JR. of Culver Cit>-, Calif. was married in Jan., 1960. Since 1959 he has been in the position of resident engineer with the Veter­ans Administration Construction Service which takes him throughout the States. PAUL D. ifOX-AGLE writes of a new address and moving into a new home at 115 Granger St., Wollaston, Mass. Dr. ROBERT E. WEIG.AND, chairman of the department of marketing at DePaul U. Chicago, has been promoted to the rank of associate prof. JEROME J. KLISE is working for the Caterpil­lar Co. in Peoria. He married in 1953 and has four children. 
DICK BASG.ALL who received a master's de­gree in English at Wick U., formerly taught at Marymount Col., Salina, Kan. and is going to 
N.Y. to study at Stclla-Adler Theater Studio with hopes of doing professional acting. Was married in 1959. JOSEPH S. BOWLING, 1627 Richmond Dr., Louisville, Ky., writes of sL\ children, one boy and five girls. He is a commercial and indus­trial built-up roofing contractor in the Louisville area. RICHARD A. DE GRAFF received his doc­torate in education from Indiana U. and is present­ly assistant to the President at Tri-Statc Col., Angola, Ind., which finds him in long-range plan­ning and development including financial matters of the college. He states the college is on the look­out for good imtructois. He is married and the father of three daughters. 
WILLIAM F. DELANEY, Major, STRAT WING (SAC) writes from Spain. His she chil­dren are enrolled in Spanish schoob and all are bi-Imgual already. REGIS D. MURRIN writes he is married and living in Pittsburgh. Father of three daughters he is presently with the law firm of Baskin, Boreman, Sachs & Craig, and boasts that Terry Hanratty is from his old home town of Butler. BILL FISHER, 2350 Meadow Lane, Green Bay, Wb., writes of his recent transfer from Cleveland to Green Bay. He is sales rcpre­sentatie for North American Mogul, a water-treatment firm. The Fisheis have two children and gave us word of JOHN KINSELLA, Chicago, lU., who is married and has two daughters. He Is a VP of Leo J. Burnett Advertising. 
GERALD A. BURLAGE has been appointed to the U. of Miami faculty as an assistant prof of mass communications. EDMUND S. WEHRLE PhD '52 has written a book recenUy, published by 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

the U. of Minnesota Pnss. The title: Bn'fotx, 
China, and the Antimisdonary Riots, 1891-1900, 
He is now an assistant prof, of history at the U. of Connecticut. GERALD M. COSTELLO has been appointed managing editor of the newly estab­lished weekly diocesan newspaper in the Paterson, 
N . J, diocese. LET ME HEAR FROM YOU FOR NEWS. 
HARRY L BUCH 600 Board of Trade BIdg., Wheeling, W.Va. 26000 
Well, I hope all of 
you had a happy 
Christinas and let's all 
hope for a good New 
Year. My twin brother 

Bill came through with some news. CHARLIE 
STIMMING has returned to Indianapolis from 
AT&T in New York to rejoin Indiana Bell as Divi* 
sion Data Systems manager; nice going, Charlie, 
I*m sure your parents are mighty glad to have 
their granddaughter near them again! JACK 
MASON is an MD in a clinic in Hammond, Ind. 
and has five children. While in Lansing Bill ran 
into the following NDcre: BILL DESRICK from 
Detroit; TOM McNAMARA who is practicing law 
on LaSaile Street in Chicago; Tom reported that 
HARRY DURKIN is practicing law in Newark 
and PAT RILEY in Sacramento, Calif.; Tom 
came to the game with five other fellov.'S from 
Chicago, among whom was PAT MONTROY. Pat 
reported that LARRY McNALLY was also up for 
the game and that BOB LEE in Chicago is ex­
pecting his ninth child. 
Thanks for the news. Bill, and I certainly wisb 
I as \vcll as many of our classmates could have 
been with you to root for the Irish that day. I 
don't know about the rest of you but I well recall 
hoping against hope that Ara wouldn't try for the 
bomb that day; in any cvtnt it was a swell ^une. 
Although I didn't get to see ND personally this 
year, I did see them on the tube twice; having 
seen Alabama play LSU I am convinced we could 
have handled them easily, they arc too light and 
their offense isn't that good. 
Received a nice letter from GEORGE "JIM" HIGGINS: "Hi, Bud: Bringing you up to date— my ex-roomie BERNIE HESTER is a CPA with PETER SHANNO.V in Chicago; JACK FRTTZEN manufacturers police radar units in K.C. under the name of Domlnator. HENRY "BUD" MASS­ALAN is VP of Massman Instruction Co. in K.C. I'm a sales rep for Employers of Wausau. Saw BOB SCHAEFER who's now a Green Bay barrister, TOM FOOTE is with Ford in Detroit." Thanks for the ncH'S, George. How about some more of you coming across? Incidentally, George's address h 1205 W. 7l5t, Kansas City, ifo. 
Also heard from ED DEBOER, 6501 NewhaU Rd., Charlotte, N.C. 28211: "Am still working for GE and have just recently been transferred to our district office in Charlotte. I am an electric utility application engineer handling TVA and Duke power. (Keep that TVA power coming, Ed. My beer won't stay cold without it!) We have five children, ages 10, 7, 5, 3 and 8 months and ex­pecting another in March, 1967. Recently ran into ED POWELL (track captain) in upstate N.Y. and he had nine and expecting another which must be a record for our Class. (See my last column, Ed, as I reported then TOM O'BRIEN of Indianapolis already has ten; even merely reporting all these big figures scares the daylights out of me!) Have been in contact widi PHIL GOTUACO in the Philippines — believe he has six kids now. Have been to the 5th and 10th Reunions — looking for­\\*ard to '68. Will %\Tite more often if we can use these c:ards — very convenient." Hear that you lazy classmates? Very convenient as Ed says. Why don't you try for yourself? 
And a letter from J. G. "GERRY" BOEHLING of 4131 Southaven Rd., Richmond, Va.: "Dear Bud (former Sorinite): After Marine Corps and_ past eight or nine years in N.J. and N.Y., came back to Richmond a year and a half ago. Married a Pennsylvania "Yankee" eight years ago (Peggy Pruncr from Johnstown, Pa., a graduate of Col­lege of New Rochelle in New Rochelle, N.Y.). We have four children: Meg 7, Garrett 5, Peter 4 and Amy 9 months, all *xo\v heads.' 7 am an account group mgr. with Cargill, Wilson and Acrce Advertisng Agency here in Richmond after being with Benton and Bowles Agency in NYC, Kfennen Co., and Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical Co. in N.J. We hope to go to Navy game in Philly on Oct. 29. Maybe we'll sec you there and hopefully other '53 classmates. Would you believe wte're getting old? Time flies! Come up £roia the 
1953 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
deep Soutb to see your neighbors 
Time flies, all right as I see GCTIT'S letter H 
postmarked Oct. 3; this will give yoa zeadeis 
some idea of the deadlines we must nudce for these 
columns. As I sit here writing this one, the hst 
one hasn't even cmne out yet! So don't get (fi^ 
gustcd if you write in and it doesn't appear for a 
couple of months — it will eventually. 
How about some addresses: HAROLD R. MIL­

LER, Caixa Postal 6781, Sao F^uk>, Brazil; EN­
RIQUE LOPEZ DUPLAN, Monte Tauro 1X0, 
Mexico 10, D.F. Mexico; CHARLES WHJJAM 
MISNER, 1009 Crest P^rk Dr., SUver Spring, Md. 
20903; ROBERT A. NIQUETTE, 1134 Fleetwood 
Dr., Manitowoc, Wis. 54220; JAMES ALFRED 
REID, 387 Wheeler PI., Haworthy, N.J. 07G41. 
THOMAS MELFE has been promoted to the 

rank of asst. VP of the US Trust Co. of New 
York. PANOS BARDIS MA '53 has been quite 
busy presenting papers at national and interna* 
tional meetings of sociological assodatioos. He 
attended two meetings in Miami and one in Evian, 
France and for all the meetings he served as ooi^ 
respondent for the Indian Journal of Social JZc­
search. 
JOHN MacINNES died Nov. 9 in Fort Portal m 

Northern Uganda where he had just completed a 
three-year teaching assignment at the African Sem­
inary. He went to the area, where his brodier 
Rev. GEORGE MacINNES CSC '56 was sta­
tioned, under the auspices of the Sodety of Lacf 
Mission Helpers. He contracted a virus or fever 
and died a few days later. He was due home for 
his first visit in three years. 
Heard from BILL DUDINE: "Dear Bud. Good 

luck on yotur thankless task. For what it's worth, 
here's my contribution. After the Navy, married 
Fran and started our family of three: Kfary, Bill 
and Jane. Went to Cornell Law School and am 
now a partner at Darby & Darby, a patent law 
firm here in NYC. We're in the Chrysler BIdg.— 
stop in whenever you're in town. We are now at 
home at our new address at 562 DeMott, Baldmn, 
N.Y. Again, if you're out here, see us at home. Would be fun to reminisce all the way back to the Kirby twins and St. Joan of Arc." Bill's re­ferring to the grade school we attended together and a good-lookii^ set of twins IA^O also attended. Bill later moved to Jasper, Ind. and except for a ' couple of times my father visited his dad. Judge Dudinc, I didn't see him again until we ran into each other freshman year at ND. 
That's about it for now. PLEASE WRITE? 

WALTER F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 Jean Rd. S.E., Huntsville, Ala. 35803 
I'd like to dedicate this column to GER­ARD HEKKER '48. His letter in the 

1954 
"Alumni Ask" section of the July-August issue has given new meamng to my humble efforts in writing this column. Be­cause of the many who have rejected his remarks, I'm reminded that Notre Dame is people, not just buildings, books and libraries; and that the spirit of ND viiH last forever. Well, people, this is your column. I must further confess that I look forward to our next reunion and to seeing you all again and joining you in a beer or two (or three). So keep yours letters and cards, folks. You know what else? I'm not even ashamed that the "Fighting Irish" were National Champs this season. 
Now to the "sacred cow": JOHN BIERBUSSE, 1028 San Juan Dr. SE, Grand Rapids, Mich. 49503, is still with American Seating Co. as con­troller. John bumped into PAUL ROMAN last summer. He also reports that JOE D'ANTONI (Louisville) has married again. Joe's first wife died some years ago. ROGER W. HILL, 142 Sandy Hollow Rd., Northport N.Y., was ap­pointed the educational media director of the Suffolk Educational Center. He has the respon­sibility for developing audio-nstial and instructioDal TV facilities for the pubCc and parochml scIuKiIl in Suffolk County, L.I., N.Y. (I knew the "box" could be put to some good use.) 
Had a real nice letter from BOB L. McGLYNK, 3816 Monroe St., Pullman, Wash. Bob's &ther died this summer and your prayers are ap­preciated. Bob has been the administrator €i Memorial Hosp. in Pullman the past eight yeaiSi Bob and his wife Betty, who's studying for her master's in political science, have three children— two girls and a boy. Bob sees DON ZECH from time to time. Don, at last report was still coach* ing at the U. of Washington. 
WALT BERNARD, 2033 Lochmoor Blvd., < Poiate Woodi, Midu, caxie tfaraosh with Ul zegafau- 12-year coatribBtioa: Walt aavtd a hilch inth Uncle Sam after graduatins and then joiacd Eimt ft Ernst, a father wdt-known firm of CPAs. Kt** stin with them a> a manager ia the tax depC He was marzied to SaBy Hcenaa (good N D itodt—her chid and linxhcr graduated from NO) xn 1939 and they have two ^ris aad two bo^s at bst count. Walt already plam to attend the 15th-Ycar RcnnSon, (atta boy) and in die meaa> time would like to bear from LEON DULION« AL DONIUS and JOHN STRICHROOT. 
Received a ctipi^ig from the Buffalo BoeMtt News le BUCK LEAHY. "Gerald Leahy has been appointed .consultant in pobHc relatioas for the Adc&on Busbh-Mois Chase, Co., an advertisiag firm in Buffalo. He was at one time a spedal assistant to Sen. Thomas Dodd of Connectiait." 
Everytime I enjoy a BfacDonald's burger I think of RICH HOHMAN. How conU he pan 19 Vietnam to be operations manager for the Midwest region of the MacDonald Hamburger Corp-? Money must be the answer. Besides, he gets all the french fries he Can cat. TONY APPELLANIZ has been appointed superintendent of the graphite & electro r^*^'"'*'^^ products area of the Dow Chemical Co. at Midhmd. ED O'CONNOR is now in Washington, DC as a feUow m science technology. He is a US Forrign Service Officer and recently completed five years as cluef id the economic secdon in the Dublin Embassy. 
BILL BUILFOILE is still with the NY Yankees. (Sony about that.) Bill reports that Ann Joan and JOE 2MBRIACO had their fourth daughter about a year ago. Dr. TONY GARRUTO is practicing medicine in Middletown, N.J. PAUL REILLY is an ardutect in Monmouth County, 
N.J. BOB GORMAN is with a Newvk, N.J. law firm. JIM HARRINGTON is in charge of bulk shipments to Latin America for Standard OiL JOE GALLAGHER b practicing labor law in NYC TOM CALDER is a law partner in Cincinnati. PHIL BOLIN is with B'Arcy Ad­verting in N.J. Phil and Dawn just had their second child, a girl, Karen. • Millie and BOB WALLACE have four boys. Bob is with RCA and lives in Moorestown, N.J. Thanks, Bill, and give my best to &£ckey Mantle. 
Your prayers and-sympathy are requested for the mother of ED FTTZPATRICK who died in October. 
Had another nice letter from Major ODILIO «<DIZ" DIAZ USMC. Diz has done a little flying over Vietnam—^would yon believe 90 misdons? He is now stationed at El Toro in Southern California. He recently bumped into JJf. CAHILL and TEX .McAfONAGLE (both '53) in Washing­ton, DC. Uiz and his wife Fran have t%vo boys and two girls. HERB HAILE and Marge (Holy Cross School of Nursing) made it back to N D for the Purdue Reunion. They live in S^nal Mt., Tenn. &farge promised a letter soon, so more about the Hailes later. 
Promises! Promises! How about you? That's it. 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal Hill Blvd., E. St. Louis, IN. 62203 
Hail the Natiaial Cham|uoiis! To cele* brate the first anni­vcisaiy of the m ­

1955 
tional championship, ««'U hold OUT Oass cocktail party alter the VM-liigan State game (and victory) next year. So mark it in the book now. 
First of an, congrattihitians to our Class Agent, GEORGE SHELTON, on the birth of a beautiiiil baby daughter. George is getting to be an oU grouch complaining that she keeps him up at night. I bet that Cand does all the night walldns. That's about five or so for the Sheltons. 
Got a long letter from DAVE METZ who, ai director of investor relations for Kodak, was up in the clouds about the company winning the Gold Oscar of Fimamcial World magaane for having the best annual report in the country. It was a knock­out. Ome, who lives at 7 Kirklees Rd., Fittsford, N.Y., reports that be doesn't see much of the Rochester gang. He say that JOHN CASEY is ttin the "joDiest green giant" at the Liocoln-Rochester Trust Co. £ 0 DEMFSEY is sec-treas. off Sobie Lumber Co. 
E. JAMES ClARK wrote to say that he bad moved from Chicago to IM Gary Rd., Stamford, Conn, where he now is number of educadonal idations programs for GE. TOM GROOEN, 70 Kildaire Lane, Deerfield, H. , now is sales cnpneer for Baird Atomic^ manufacturer of meiScal 
and electronic instruments. &Iy old roomie TOM 1205-176th St., Bellevue, Wash. JOHN KURTZ, vinted shortly mth: PAT SNYDER and his bride; DORWIN reports in from California, 219 Los 5117 Harwood, Des Moines; FRAP«t HICKEY, DAVE DAVIN, Judge MIKE KILEY, GENE Cerros Ave., Walnut Creek. He*s district sales 14360 St. Marys, Detroit; BILL KILBURG, 464 BRENNAN and HENRY S. DIXON (Lee County, manager in the Bay area for Evinrudc Motors. S. Fig Tree Lane, Plantadon, Fla.; FRANK Illinois' state's attorney). It was my pleasure to How*s tlus for a motto—"Fun is my business. My BURKE, 935 Claybrun Dr., Fort Wayne; ED help in the education of Sharon and NICK busness is fun.'* How many of us can say that? FOX, 2020 Alamo Dr., Monterey Park, Calif.; RAICH's children during the season; they have Tom and Carol have tAvo Kvely boys. IVouId JIM O'SHEA, 3802 Wilmot Ave., Columbia, S.C.; been forced to seek housing in West Bend, Wis. you believe Pat and Mike? and BILL MCLAIN, 2770 Dartmoor N.E., Warren, due to Nick's prosperous realty buuness and their Here are some news notes that wouldn't £t Ohio. family growth. GEORGE "SIX-POINT" WIL-
last time. Got a Uck out of seeing ED COOK still domS SON and his Karen still reside in Highland, Ind. 
DAN SHANNON was clioscn by the Columban Fathers as general cliairman of tlieir annual variety concert. This is the second year he has been so honored. 
Here's the latest on the "movers" in the doss: LEO CALLAGHAX, 317 O\crbrook Rd., Balti­more; JERRY KLENNER, 708 E. Second St., Bloomsburg. Pa.; BOB HIXDERSCHEID, 173 Rosarita Dr., Salinas, Calif.; ED BORUS, 66 Goltra Dr., Basking RJdgc, N.J.; JIM MURPHY, 1854 State St., Schenectady; WALT SCHROEDER, 12633 Pcrcival St., Chester, Va.; RON RENE, 21 Bemcr Dr., Milford, Conn.; RON* SERSEN, 435 Grand Blvd., Park Ridge, 111.; BOB D-AHLEN, 25 Audubon Causeway, Lantana, Fla.; and JISI COURTNEY, 1306 Lake Shore Dr., Long Beach, Ind. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY has been named professor and new director of the Institute of H>*draulic Research in the College of Engineering at the U. of lou^. Meanwhile, JOHN T. KENNEDY (638 Andrew Rd., Springfield, Pa.) used one of the reply cards in the magazine (why don't you?) to say that he and Afciry still arc bursting with pride over John T. IH, who was bom last year, their first in nine years. **Witli the size of him, there's no doubt he will be pla>-ing football at ND in the 1980's." PETE SUTHERLAND got his wife to tend the card. She reports that he left his job as a director of the Pro\"idence poverty program to become assistant to the president of Colonial I<aundries, one of the largest suds and duds firms in New England. Their fifth cliild was bom last July. Pete got his master's in business adminis­tration from Rhode Island a year ago. They live at 51 Woodland Rd., East Greenwich, RJ. JOHN CASEY filled his Yclloiv- Card from 85 Fieldstone Terrace, Rochester, N.Y. He is an officer of tho Lincoln Rochester Trust Co. {'*If you need cash, sec Case'*}, A former president of the ND Club 
of Rochester, John has tlirec children. DICK SCHERPEREEL received his doctorate in art education from the George Pcabody College for Teachers in August. Rev. JAMES SIMONSON CSC received his PhD from Har\-ard in June. ED JOST now is associate professor of English at St. Vincent Col. in Latrobe, Pa. He is the TV reviewer for The tjxmp magazine. Also, he is the advisor for the St. Vincent Film Sodety and teacher of a course in the art of tlie cinema. 
Here are a few notes for ^-our mailing list. MASAO DOYAMA left TOVT© for a job stateside and now is living at 124 SyK-ia Lane, Napcr^'ille, HI. Another foreign note—DICK GLAMENS has been moved by Creole Petroleum Corp. to Mara­caibo, Venezuela. GEORGE VOSMIK, the old doer, now gets his mail at 1128 Brainard, Lynd­hurst, Ohio. JOHN ROGERS, the president of the ND Club of Big D, just moved into a new home at 4726 Twin Post Rd., Dallas. JIM IRWIN, the woHd's number one baixister, has moved to 411 Walter Ave., Fairfield, Ohio. Dr. ED TOOMEY now can be reached at the Concord Medical Center, Concord, &Iass. (in case of emer­gency only, of course). 
Live in Helena, Scatde, Albuquerque, River Grove, Indianapolb, Camp Pendleton or Deer Park? If so. Father JOE O'DONNELL will be in your area by the time you get this issue. "The retreat master extraordinary" has all these points on his eariy 1967 schedule. MARTY CULHANE has forsaken the savings and loan business for an executive position with Ad\*ance Transformer Co. The global traveler Dr. DICK REAMER registers in from Radekgasse 7/26, Vienna, Austria KHO. 
Here are some more wandering souls w*ho have rciMirted in from new locations: H.\L WILLEN­BORG, 9723 Juanita Dr. N.E., Kirkland, Wash.? JIM TWOHY, 132 W. Ida, Littleton, Colo.; DICK CAW, 1315 Second Rd., Baltimore; JIM SCHLAGHECK. 1213 W. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend; JOHN CONNOLLY, 1599 Belmont St., Manchester, N.H.; DAVE KILKEARY, 60 Down­ing Rd., Downington, Pa.; JOHN SERVOTTE, 21480 Sierra Dr., Waukesha, Wis.; JOHN FALLON, Chesson Lane, Wilton, Conn.; JOHN BLASIC, I4I1 Mimosa Lane, Silver Springs, Md,; HARV MUELLER, 6040 Winding Way, Sylvania, Ohio. 
DON HA'ra, Box 5104*, Tulsa; JOHN BENDEL, 5701 Jay St., Yorba Linda, Calif.; JIM BIGELOW, battle in the NFL with the Atlanta Falcons. His old buddy, TONY PASQUESI, was one of the former stars introduced at the Knute Rodme Ikfemorial Dinner here in Chicago. One of the key committee members for the event that at* tractcd 1,450 to honor the "Fighting Irish" «ra« TOM a\REY. 
&IIKE KELLY, the major domo of Organiza­tion '55, has :mnounced that the infoimal Class gathering will continue to be held on the third Tuesday of the odd numbered months at JOHNNY LATTNER's steak house in downtown Chio^o* If you're planning a trip into Chicago, try tO make it March 21 or May 16. The last meeting attracted 23 for drinks and dinner, so you'll have some company from the Chicago gang. The going gets rough, though. GEORGE MEYERS got up at the last meeting to salute &Iike for ai fine job as president and immediately was im* animously elected honorary president. That's one way to scare away a guy forever. TOM GAL> LIGAN from Fort Waj-ne and DAVE METZ from Rochester won the **out of tou-n" awards. JOE HAGGERTY, district manager for Chevrolet came up with a great gimmick. He raflkd off a new Camaro at the meeting! The only catdi was that it was for a week only. LOU ZEFRAN had the luclcy number and was the big man around town. Someone was heard to rema^: **Who*s going to put the hole into the front for the funeral flag?" 
OK, lads, let's hear from you—NOW! 
PAUL FULLMER 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago, 
III. 60645 
By the time you re­ceive this report Christ­mas and New Year's will be but past htf­

tory once again. All the officers hope that you and yours had a delightful holiday season. 
It has been confirmed—bachelor JOHN MUR­RAY, legal scholar and tax litigation expert for the US Justice Dept., presently intends to resort to an old tax shelter device—matrimony. AL PARUXO and JOHN ADAKIS arc dreaming up new and better ways to assist TV commercials in preventing the "man on the white hoisc" from getting electrocuted while riding through the coanal cable. Seriously, Al is with GayncH* & Ducas, Inc. and John is now VP of Grey Advertiang, both m NYC. FRANK E. McCARTHY, legislative counsel to Interstate Commerce Commission, and his wife arc the recent proud parents of twins. 
LEO LINBECK JR, pres. of Linbeck Con­struction Co., has been elected to the Younff Presidents' Organization. GEORGE ZIMMER­}kIAN JR. has been appointed coordinator fm' data processing for the American Bridge Div. of IK Steel. WILLlAlkf HAUSER has joined the staff of Dupont's photo products dept. research lab at ParUn, N.J. XAVIER ARAGONA has been elected to the Legislature of the State of Mary­land. FRANK GLEASON JR. has become pres­ident of Copeland Refrigeration Corp. of Sidney, Ohio. JOHN ADA&fS has been elected VP and manager of the Detroit office of Grey Advcrtinng. 
We'd Uke to hear from DICK RUST, BOB RICHARDS, JIM SHUMAKER, TONY FUCIL­LO and JOHN COONEY. 
1956 
EUGENE O'CONNOR Cosgrove & O'Connor^ 656 Ellicott Sq. BIdg. BufFalo, N.Y. 14203 

NAME DROPPING FROM THE "50^ by John F. Manion 
Not only has it been a great season for Ara's Army, but their success ser^'ed to bring back a great number of our classmates for memtmes of ten years ago. And from the *'Rock," to the Grotto, to the fieldhouse, to the new tibrarf, to the stadium to the Morris Inn and lastly to tfie Acuity club I caught sight of these '56ers and «^ere he is sissistant grid coach at Hammond "Scill HS and has entered the insurance business. Three other grid greats of bygone days are enjoying successful insurance careers: JIM MENSE made it back to three games from his home in Hamilton, Ohio; Peg and JACK KEGALY enjoyed the Pitt fracas with the BOB SALVINOs ^Jack is with W.W. Rice Ins. Co. and Bob is a State Farm agent, both in Chicago. CHARLIE PENNA took time out &om the stock market to enjoy the Purdue action—he has o£Sces in the Chicago Loop. JIM KINNANE and family were readying to move to California at Army game time. 
The JO£ BILLs journeyed up from Indianapolis at least twice during the season; Joe looks like he could still go a fun 60 minutes! GORDIE IKRENZO shows a PhD on his calling card that further explains his presence at all home games by his employment as assoc. prof, of sociology at Indiana U. in South Bend. And LEO LINBECK managed a business trip to the Midwest to see the Duke contest. The chilly afternoon temp reminded Leo why this is the first game he's been to ance his bride graduated from SMC in '59. Jerry and PHIL CENEDELLA looked great at the Army game; Phil's in the box business and they're at home at 415 East Main in Fredonia, N.Y. He teUs us that JERRY SWEENEY is attending law school in Boston while still residing at 21 Salem tn Wakefield (a wonderful 240 year old colonial home.) MARK BURNS continues his ascending career with IBM in Chicago. And peihaps the most earthshaking news is that I did see JIM CLIN and DENIS BERRY after the Ktt game; I'm quite sorry that we weren't able to get together a couple hours earlier! Denny 
and las wife Carol drove up from Peoria where he served a successful term as secretary of the Peoria ND Club and is sales man;^[er for Nelson Mfg. Co. (sprinkling equipment); the OHns motored hrom home in Michigan. 
The MANIONS ended an enjoyable six years in Peoria as we moved to LaGrange Park, HI. in late August. I'm happily back in the oil business selling heating fuel to industrial and institutional consumers for Gustafson Oil Co. in the Chicago area. We're at home at 726 Forest Rd., LaGrange Pari: 60525. T'was not good at all to be leanng *56 friends in Peoria like TOM KELLY (best darned real estate man in town), DENIS BERRY (may he rest quietly now that I've left), DENNY POWERS (best wishes to him in the Peoria in­surance market), BILL STOTZER (next year's Peoria City Golf Champ — to go with the 1966 Remuon Championship), PAUL COASH (may his golf game impro\-e so he can keep up with bis wife Sue), JOE DE KHCHAEL (the tremendously talented &Ir. IlUnois Bell in Peoria), LEN KORGIE (may he keep Richwoods High the fine schfxil it is for many years), PAUL WEGHORST (deservedly successful in the ready-mix concrete bunness), and the good Dr. AlkfEEL 
G. RASHID (may his practice and family con­tinue to grow as well for many years to come— iritfaout Unde Sam interfering). 
But the Lord and JOHN THURIN '59 villing. tiie next ALUMNUS will have a report on the 120 dassmates in the Chicago ND Club. I've already visited with DICK ALLISON (who'll have news for the next issue) and HOWIE WESTRICK (who's news in himself); sorry no known X, Y, Z in Chicago from '56. Hope you all had a happy Christmas. 
MDCE HALLORAN telb US that after fi"**hinff lus FMy in physics at U. of Wis­

consin in '64 he did tescaich vroA for BcU Lab in New Jersey. Now he is an asst. piof. at USC and i> living with his family In Gardena outade ol LJL JOE RIEGER bas been transferred to FianUott, Ky. as an op­erating superintendent for Sean, Roebuck tnd has xecenUy opened a modem plant for Sears. He also is a very liappy family man. Barbara and GERRY TRAFFICANDA infonn us that all is well in Tar­zana, Calif, where Tta£5canda Photography is en­joying great success and also in another field with the addition of their fifth. As Gerry is building up 
1957 
ALUMNUS JANUARY WS7 FEBRUARY 

his family he is also doing the same with a new 
color lab which will soon be in operation. RICH­
ARD POLLENZ is a major with Uncle Sam at 
the Command and General Staff College in Fort 
Leavenworth. The PoUenies have three "privates" 
bucking for recognition. DON LEONE reports in 
from Riverside, 111. that he is working hard at 
being a project mechanical engineer for Saigent 
& Lundy Engineers in the Nuclear Div. Also that 
he has engineered the seventh addition to the 
Leone family. Don tells us that J. D. NOLAND, 
JACK ZIELINSKI, FRANK REILLY, BIU. 
KUCERA and himself are members of a mod«t 
investment club which meets monthly. All I will 
add is watch Reilly. The day he shows up in a 
new suit make a quick accounting. Thanks, Don. 
BILL WATSON has merged two advertising 
companies he purchased in Lafayette, Ind. and is 
now managing both of them. He is doing the same 
thing with his family. His past history is with TF 
Guide in Indianapolis and Cincinnati as well as 
the Chicago Tribune. PAUL JOHNS has been 
named a senior proposition engineer at the Bab­
cock & Wilcox Co. JAMES KINNANE has moved 
to Fullerton, Calif. JIM HERRING'S name was 
left off the Class roster by mistake. He is living at 
14 Sinclair Terrace, Madison, N.J. BRIAN Mc-
MAHON is in Misawa, Japan, a captain in the Air 
Force, and has a squadron of five at home. 
Your prayers arc requested for our former class­mate RAY MILLER who died Sept. 30 whUe serving in the armed forces. Our sympathies are ex­tended to his mother. Ray's home was in River­side, Calif. , „ , „ 
This is the briefest Class letter I can recaH. We do need your support. Please just jot a line about yourself and those you may have had commumca­tion with. You do have this responsibility. 
Keep next June in mind and definitely plan to attend the BIG NUMBER TEN. Parliculars will be mailed under separate cover. 
JOHN P. McMEEL 30 E 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 
The news for this is­sue is somewhat sparse, but is as follows: Mr. and Mrs. JHCHAEL 

1958 
GLEASON have re­cently moved to a new address: P.O. Box 56, Minetto, N. Y. 13115. Mike is working with the Atomic Power Plant. On Apr. 21 of this year the Gleansons welcomed their third child and third son. DAN CASTRO has moved to 470 Wayland Rd., Cherry Hill, N. J. 08034. Dan b a sales engi­neer for General Electric, dealing in insuhting materials in the Philadelphia district. DAVE ROB­ERTS is in advertising and merchandising for Spartan Stores, a Michigan grocery chain. He has been married five years and has three children with another expected in ApriL His address is 463 Biddleford Ct. NW, Comstock Park, Mich. 49321. 
Mr. and Mrs. DUANE VAN DYKE, 3666 Glen^ feliz Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif. 90000, announce the birth of a son Mark bom May 30. The NEAL SWEENEYs, of 42 Madison St., Franklyn Square, N,Y. 11010, announce the birth of daughter Ann jlbrie on May 25 giving them a total of two off­springs to date. Neal reports meeting JOE GAG­LIARDI, BILL WALSH and JOE KNOTT re­cently. HENRY DiRUSCIO, 5812 York St., Metairie, La. 70001, was promoted in August to district sales manager of Aloe Scientific Div. of Bruiis\rick Corp. in New Orleans. Henry previously was in sales for the same firm in the Boston area. JAY RYAN, 20 N. Broadway, Apt. M361, White Plains, N.Y. 10600, was married last May to the former Miss Nancy Mclntyre. Jay is with the Nestle Co. in new product planning and corporate development. Dr. FRANK JEGLIC has been transferred to Babcock and Wilcox's Nuclear and Special Products Div. in Barberton, Ohio. 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 102 "1" St., LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
1958 LAW JOHN F. AAARCHAL Marchal & Marchal, 116-118 W. 4th St., Greenville, Ohio 45331 
J. KARL HICK has been promoted to manager with the Arthur Andersen Co. 
their Chicago of­

fice. B. ROBERT KILL has been promoted to 
northwest district marketing representative for the 
grocery diviuon of Beatrice Foo<b Co. Bob wiQ 
be respon^ble for the development of sales and ex* 
pansion of sales promotion activities and customer 
service programs for a nine-state area with head­
quarters in Sunnyvale, Calif. 
ROBERT XfARSO, an account representative at 
Xerox's Hinsdale, III. branch, graduated firom the 
company's nat'l. sales development center. AN­
THONY BEREJKA graduated from the Institut 
Superieur de Philosophic in Louvaln, Beaton in 
June, 1961 with a PhB in philosophy and is now 
with Esso Research and Engineering Co. Tony is 
married and has three children, ages fiv^ two and 
one, and lives at 127 Columbia Ave., Cranford, 
1959 
N.J. ROBERT T. BROEMMEL has a new son Jeffery David and a new address: 304 Meadors Circle, Morris, III. 60450. 
NICK DEMPSEY asks that all ND soUdtations now come to his new home at 1928 Central Rd., Glenview, 111. 60023. Nick was married in Oct., 1964 and he and Marilyn have a son Vlnce. Now working in the investment dept. of Northwestern U., Nick is in the U. of Chicago's nocturnal IkfBA program (with KEVIN BURKE) and commands Hdq. Co., 108th Engineer Bn., in the Illinois Nat'l. Guard. JIM COORSSEN, RICH BOLAND and BILL STEIDEN (all affluent busmessmen) met with Nick at the Army game and all four find it hard to believe that MICKEY SUNDSTROM intends to sever his long-standing relationship vnth the Navy, stating that civilian £fe mil interfere with Mickey's golf game. 
JACK BEARD married Devona Donahoe, a River Forest, 111. girl, five years ago, and they now have three children: Diane 4, John 3 and Timothy 2. Number four was due in December. Jack returned to Bmnsivick Coip. in F^., 1966 as senior tax research analyst. Jack began with Brunswick and then spent two yeais with Bell and Howell. JOHN P. CONNOLLY, a commerce man, finally joined the ranks of the married last Fd). 
12. John's wife u a high school Latin teacher. John is the managing officer of the Rochelle, HL Savings and Loan Assn. 
Capt. GEORGE D. WILSON USAF attended St. Laurence U. after graduation and received an &IS, then had pilot training in Fla. and Okla., spent two years in EI Paso in KB-SO's and spent 1964 in \netnam flying T-28's and Al-E's. 1965 w ^ spent in Phoenix at F-lOO school and the next sue months stayed at Homestead AFB in Ihfiami. George married Rosalie Lukcrich (Calumet, Mich.) in 1963 and they now have a son Craig 3 years. The Wilsons arc currently at Torrejon AB, K^drid, Spain and invite anyone in the area to stop as they have plenty of room and lots of cheer! 
TERENCE P. KEATING is a packaging en ^ neer for Container Corp. of America and after two years in Omaha, is back in Chicago. He and Judi are parents of two girls — Diann 3 and Lisa Colleeit 1. They are li\ing in Glen Ellyn, III. and saw GERRY BRODERICK and wife Lois in New Yoi^ in Sept. JIM CHRISMAN writes that CHRIS WALSH is now living in Oak Vaskt HI. and is with the Recordak Div. of Eastman Kodak. Jim was married Sept. 10 to Kitricia Darcy of Bright-waters, N.Y., and is an acc't. exec with AferriD, Lynch, et al,^ in Chicago. Further info from Jim IS that CRAIG HILLYER is running his father's insurance business in Brookings, S.D. 
WAYNE FAIST is now in Aurora, HI. In April, 1966 he went with Thor Power Too! Co. as ex­port manager, having been assodated with Rust-Oleum Corp, for five years before that time. In Oct., 1939 Wayne married Rcnec Schneider (Ro­sary '59) and they have four children: Michele and Martine 6, Jeanne 4, and Paul 3. June, 1965 saw Wayne receive an AIBA in Int'l. Business from DePaul U. Wayne has been in contact with JIM DOYLE and BILL FLYNN, cx-roommatcs. Jim is teaching at Boston Col. in the 6eld of peripetology (working with the blind to hdp them in the use of their remaining senses) and Bill has an MBA from Kfichigan State. Bill, Fatsy and their four boys have now been transferred to the West Coast. 
In Sept., 1959 DAVID BERG married Rita Mc-Gary of Batavia, HL They Cvcd in Madison, Wis. «dule Dave obtained a PhD in biochemistry at the 
U. oC Wncomin, finjihjng m 1963. The Boss and thdr three children then reportol to Fort Mc-Clellaii, Ala. in Jan., 1964 for the chrmJcal oflBccr basic coarse and spent the next 27 months at Fort Detrick, Md. wmidng in the US Anny Biobsical laboratories (two more childcen). Dave is now with Efi laHy and Co. in Greenfield, Ind. and be and Rita five at 1521 Braner Dr. with David 6, Feter 5, Mary 4, Ptggy 3 and Donna 1. 
Joseph George Ferrone was bom Ang. 31 in Endno, Calif, to parents Jane and DAN FER­RONE. BOB WETOSKA married Mary Ann Schwab on Jan. 30, 1965. Mary Ann is a former St. Pud Winter Carnival Queen and they now have a son Stephen. The Wetoskas moved into a home in Glencoe, HL in Iklay and Bob is still with the Tobin-Stahr Co. in Maywood and playing with the Chics^o Bears. 
JBf MASTERSON, wife Jo Ann and new daughter Kathleen are now rending in Geneva, Switzerland wliere Jim is with the Caterpillar Tractor Co.'s finance dept. First virilor, PETER BRADY! DICK BRINGAZE sends congrats n a the cohimn to Suzanne and JIM HEAVEY on the birth of Erin Marie, the Heavey's second child. IKck is in Chi-town %rith IBM, offi^ products sales div. Skiing, flying and weight lifting consume his spare time between sales. 
CLARENCE HUTCHES and his wife are in the process of adopting a little boy John Curtis. Thdr oldest is now a first grader. Clarence was just dcctcd to certified membership in the American Sodety of Traffic and Trans, having successfully cmnpleted a program in the Quaker Oats Traffic Dept. CHUCK OSTENDORF is now the general manager of the Trinity Coach Corp., Duncan%-ille, Tex. Chuck and Judy are expectii^ their second diild; dai^hter Andrea is two. 
T. J. MAHONEY informs the Class that Peggy presented him with lunothy J. Jr. last Ai^ust and that Dr. BUCKY O'CONNOR has returned from the U, of Bologna and is interning at St. Ikfichael's Hosp., Newark (Uving at 34 Juddington, West Orange). Beth O'Connor was expecting number two hut month. The KEVIN HALUGANs have a new dai^hter. Kev is a sales manager with Lever Bros. JOHN MONTAGUE is an engineer with Mahoney Troast Const. Co. and is still single, but looking! And finally frran TJ . comes woid that JOHN HART is a very successful lawyer in Sfbntdair, N.J. and has just bought a beantifnl lumie in Morris Plains, N.J. 
TOM ECKRICH, the superintendent of the Peter Eckrich and Sons, Inc. plant in Fremont, Ohio writes that he has been in contact with JOE COLLINS who, after working in the financial dis­trict of Boston, is president and owner of the Dover Ski Binding Co. in Boston and is doing very well. Through Joe, Tom found out that TERRY &fURPHY is piactidng law in Dallas, Tex. Tom would appreciate info about, and ad­dresses of MILAM JOSEPH, BILL SHERRY and JIMSHEEHAN. 
And finally, I would Eke to thank those who have responded in the past few months. There are still many in the Class whose names have yet to appear in this column and we'd like to hear £rom Ckr about them. Thanks. 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 

2680 Lehman Rd., Apt. 42, 
Gncinnati, Ohio 45204 
I would have liked to wish all a Happy New Year in this issue but mstead rcgrettahly re­

1960 
port the deaths of two of our classmates and the father of another. Since the last column the Alumni Office has forwarded the news of the passing of JAMES J. CARROLL BSPE '60 in Oct., 1966, JOSEPH S. SLADE BSC '60, LLB '61 in Nov., 1966, and Dionisio 'PANOZZO in Oct., 1966, father of DENNIS P. '60. Few details, oidy that Jim was killed in ac­tion in l^etnam, and Joe was in practice in Bluh­awaka. For those who were dose friends of these fellows and would care to send Masses, thdr ad­dresses are: Mrs. James J. Carroll, 4035 Meridian Ave., Miami Beach, Fla.; Mis. Joseph S. Slade, 606 W. 8Ui St., Mishawaka, Ind. 46544; and Den-ms Bmozzo, 300 E. 115th St., Chicago, HL 60628. To each of Uie families of our classmates we ex­tend our sympathy and piaycrs. 
In our first usue we had infonnatibn gathered over the years which had not gotten into print. In December we were able to update and report cin^ lent news. Now fcur our third effort we must again 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1947 FEBRUARY 
rely hea«ly on leftovers from column one. This is Incidentally, this correspondent welcomes one and due to a major case of lethargj' out there, gents. all \isiting the Chicago area, see address below or 1961 LAW For the next issues, March and May, information call 312-362-2563. Don't miss the next exciting must be in my hands by Feb. 1 and Apr. 5. Sup­issue of MAD 1960, Mar. 22, 1967, and the re­JOHN N. MORELAND 
port your local postmaster — send postcards. 
DAVE ZAUGG is pursuing a MBA at U. of San Francisco and working as director of residence halU. JOHN W. a\RPEXTER was in TruUi or Consequence, N.M., in charge of a triangulation survey party of the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Sur­vey. John w-ritcs that he recenUy saw JIM PAYX­TON in Long Island and DER KELLEHER la Albuquerque. JOHN E. POUBA, wUc and daugh­ter (4) reside in Riverside, III. He is a tax man­ager with Encyclopedia Britannica, BOB SMITH, who did not finish with *60 but chose instead USAF Academy '61, likes to keep jn touch ^^^th ND. He is presently in Vietnam in ps>'. %\*ar. He is married and has a daughter. Bob recently spent a leave in Bangkok with his father ROBERT H. '26. Nice to hear from an interested ".-Mumnus." Thank you, JIM PIELSTICKER, who uTOtc from Oklahoma, **PAUL LOOP owns a building-engi­neering £cr\nce and manages real estate properties in Tulsa. Saw NESTOR WEIGAND at the OU­ND game. He w-as in charge of the Wichita Club train. He \%-as recently chosen >'oung 'realtor of the year* in Wichita.'* Congrats to Nestor! CHUCK SAWICKI manages D & B, Little Rock. 
Personal to JOE ANDERSON — somewhere in Chicago — GEORGE REEBER, 14166 Artesian, De­troit, '.\-ants to know vvhat*s new? George says open house to all who visit Detroit. Now, docs Brenda (Eriksen) know about that, Rcebcr? His children, supported by Fisher Body-General Motors, are Beth 4, Kris 3. and MoIJy 3 months. George also reports that BILL WARD JR., wife Mi­chaelcne (Robichaud) and daughter Michacla 4 months, are HWng in Detroit where Bill works for Shell. George was going to "the game" to \\-atch "the downfall of the Spartans by the Christian hordes!" HA! To avoid controversy-, let's just say we received No. 1 and wait till next year! PETE HASBROOK's "victory" part>- at 834 Crown Blvd. in E, Lansing must have been interesting as a result of the outcome. Pete was with IBM when last I heard. TERRY LARKIN is continuing BSCE studies at ND after five years as a naval a\-iator. He has not given up fl>'ing, tliough. I saw him recently at O'Hare escorting a lovely "stew." ART WIGGINS writes from Ann Arbor, "am Ii\"ing here with wife Rcgina (Ritter), Ann 3 and John 3 months. I have an MS in physics from U. of M. and am now working part lime toward PhD while working full time as a research engineer at Conductron Corp. Tom McSwecney abo here seek­ing PhD." Tlianks, Art. It has been over six years but I know they are still out there somewhere. JOHN "VOGI" DRESKA, capt. Army Quarter­master Corps, Japan, and P, BRUCE COSACCHI, FBI, Seattle, four children (?). Also in Seattle *vith the First National Bank is OLLIE FLOR and wife Fran SMC '60. 
Also out West are: Lawyers TOM GREENE, CaliL and TOM O'TOOLE, Phoenix. TOM SOLON has recently been transferred to San Bernardino by Owens-Corning Fiberglass. W.-VLT "WOODY" WILLL\MSON is wth Bekins Van Lines in Glendalc, Ariz. JOHN CIHAK is man­ager of the Campo-Conrad branch of the Bank of .America in Spring Valley, Calif. JIM J. RYAS U a brokerage,consultant at tlic Los Angeles North­west office of Conn. General Life Ins. Co. Dr. MEYER SILVER is a research ph>*5icist in Redon­do Beach. TOM SHISHiL-\N is working on rocket design for Sandia Corp., in N.M. KEN AD.AM­SON is managing sales in Denver for *'good old mountain water" Coors. DEE STEVENSON is with North Amer. Aviation in Manhattan Beach. JIM THOMPSON is a broker in Fresno for MLPF & S. KEITH HAVGE is far removed from Minn., in LA \rith old Cliarlie the Tuna, Star-Kist Foods. P.AUL BAREL.\ is a financial analyst ^v-ith Shell Oil in Houston. 
In Ara's Area: ED O'MALLEY is with the Weather-Titc Window Co.- in K.C. JIM CARNEY has completed his MFA at U. of Iowa. PHIL GLEASON back at ND after one year on a facul­ty research grant. W.-\LT SHERWIN JR. re­ceived his PhD from OSU in '66. Dr. JACK ROBINSON is in research at a Chicago hospital. If you need a doctor with a lot of muscle, how about MIKE iODISH, Detroit or DON Mc-ALLISTER, Rock Island, HI. JACK L.-\NG also heading into the profession at U. of Kentucky Medical Center. 
Odds & the End: Three cheers for Ara and the "Fighting Irish." Truly a great team and an ex­dting season. I'm a little early, but next issue is too late so, Erin Go Braugk for St. Paddy's Day, sults of our nationwide poll on who has the most kinder. Also, poetry by STEVE BARRY and the revealing story of wliat becomes of ex-vice-presi­dents, or — "The Fall & Decline of RON SOWER?" 
THOMAS J, O'CONNELL 3350 Everett Rd., Lake Foresf, 
III. 60045 

^M  ^0^^  ^^^k^k  ^^ ^^  ixoM. you  read  
^  a  m  ^^ ^  ^  this  the  holidays  will  
I  ^B^ B V^ B  •  be over but my family  
I  ^^/0  ^^0  I  and I  \nsh you a  be­ 
lated  Kfciry  Christmas  

and the very best in tlie 'Sew Year. 
I recently received a letter from STEVE LE­ROUX. He and his wife are stationed at Camp Lejeune, N.C. with the Second Marine Div. They have a daughter Lisa. Steve is currently on ouisc in the Caribbean. BILL BENDER is in his rca­dency at Duke U. in radiologj*. He mentioned that it will probably be interrupted this summer by the good old j^r Force. JOE MEANY is with RCA at their Afemay Products Dept. in Nccdiiam, Afass. Joe is married to Ann Marie Barry and they have Wio sons Paul and Kevin. D.AVE WIL­LLAMS married Karen Mortimer SMC '64 this past July. Dave is an investment advisor at Continental Bank in the Windy City. Dave mentioned that some of our classmates were at the wedding: TOM BRANNIGAN, Ft. Hood, Tex.; GEORGE VORIS, Amer. Natl. Bk., Chicago; TOM PAULICK, Pov­erty Corps, Chicago; "MOT" O'DONNEL, Merrill L>Tich, Chicago; TOM JORD.AN, AT&T, Pittsburgh; and STRAT STEPAN, Stepan Chem., Chicago. With all those boys there it must have been quite a wedding! 
GENE DOMBKOWSKI tells me that he marw ricd Anne Kocgly and they have a son named KcWn. Gene has taught junior high in Addison, 
III. and has recently completed his master's at Northern Illinois U. in educational administration, JIM MEEHAN JR. is married to Catherine Polo­nosky of Mt. Pleasant, Pa. The ^leehans have two children Patrick James and Kathleen Iblaric. Jim is nou-ti^tiiin^ at Edinfaoro, Pa. State Teachers CoL and bad taught earlier at Niagara U. JOHN D.AVEY married Mary Wider from Detroit, Mich. Mar>- is a graduate of Mar>-grovc Col. in the Motor City. John is presently assistant prosecuting attorney of Oakland County in Pontiac, Mich. Capt. RONALD HOWARD married Priscilb Ed­wards in December. BERNARD HUSTON wrote me from sunny California. After graduation he spent six moTi^ in the Army Reserves. For the past four years he has been employed by the United Calif. Bank in Los .Angeles. After a three-year management training program he ser\'ed as a commercial loan officer in their Beverly Hills oflSce and is currently an assistant branch mgr. in Los Angeles. Bernard was married in Augtist of '62 and has two children Barry 3 and Kathy 1. 
After returning as a captain from the US Army, JOHN DIXON is now employed as an engineer test pilot for Sikorsky Aircraft in Connecticut. He is firing in Monroe County wth his wife Louise (St. John's U. '61) and they have two children. TOM CUBAGE received Iiis law Ae^xee from U. of Oklahoma in 1964. Since that time he has at­tained the rank of captain in the US Army. Tom is married to the former Linda Ellen Perkins of Bartlesville, Okla. They recently had their third child, a boy. That now makes it two girls and a boy for the Cubbagcs. Tom mentioned that on a trip to Fort Dcvons he hoped to see JOSE FER­NANDEZ, It., AI5, who is commanding officer of tlie 541 Military Intelligence Co., Fort Gcoi^ge Afeadc, Md. 
X wanted to mention before closing for this year that my wife Tinky and I are expecting our third child in April. After two boj-s, Mike and Pat, the Henneghans are "thinking PINK". 
I haven't received any news lately so after the first of the year, hoping you recover from the hol­iday celebrating, drop me a note and let me know (vhat you are doing. 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 Scrivo Dr., Warren, Mich. 48092 

Bookin & Moreland, 211 Vz E. Main St., Ottumwa, Iowa 52501 
Plan now for our Re­union. Call, write, or vi^t other classmates and urge them to at­

1962 
tend also. Reunion 

chairman: TOM BULL. 930 E. Oakslde St., 
South Bend 46614. 
Paula and BOB HENRY and sons Geoffrey and 
Christopher are now living in Cleveland. Bob re­
ceived his PhD in mechanical engineering at the 
Argonne Research t^b near Chicago and Is pres­
ently stationed with NASA. Barbara and AL HAM­
ILTON and their daughter Sarah are living in 
Florence, Ky. AI is teaching at Villa Aladonna Col. 
and is completing his PhD in history. JACK 
SCHOBER is teaching £ngh'.sh at Robert Col., 
Bcbek Istanbul, Turkey. Jack enjoys the ALUMNUS 
because it also helps him keep abreast with class­
mates while he is so far away. Congratulations to 
Bonnie and LARRY McGRAW on the recent birth 
of their second daughter Michelle Ann. Larry, %\1io 
is a graduate of Denver U. Law School, is ^^'orking 
with IBM in Denver. 
ROBERT GALDOBINI sent on a newsy letter 
from California. Bob and his wife Afary Jeanne 
were married last April while Bob was scr\-ing as a 
captain with the USMC. Presently Bob is a civilian 
and is working for ^lobil Oil Co, as a marketing 
rep in San Francisco. JOE BRACCO was dis­
charged from the Army last summer and now lives 
in San Francisco. Joe is working with the proba­
tion dept. of the Juvenile Div. in San Francisco, 
LARRY SOLETI is living in San Mateo and work­
ing for World Airiines in Oakland. MIKE PRE­
COBB is working for the Xerox Corp. in San 
Frandsco. Lt. BILL WEINSHEIMER USA is 
serving as the general's aide at Ft. Mason in the 
same cit)'. Congratulations to Bill and wife Roberta 
on the birth of their first child in September. 
THOMAS HANSEN received his master's from Loyola in Chicago in January and is now a voca­tional counselor at Forest View HS in Arlington 'ttts,, JH. He is currently living at 914 E. Pratt Dr.. Palatine, DI. TOM FARLEY has been named commercial sales manager in the mar­keting dept. of the Standard Oil Co. in Ohio. JOSEPH EG.AN MA '62 has been named an as­sistant prof, in the dept. of English and world Ht at Manhattan Col. PAUL FRIEDRICH MA '62. doctoral candidate at the U. of Munich, has been appointed a research fellow at Stanford U.'s Hoo­ver Institution on War, Re\-aIution and Peace. 
JOHN GAGNON received his MA and is now residing at 4 Beech St., North Adams, &fass. 01247. He plans on attending the Class Reunion. TOM GETTELFINGER graduated from Har\-ard Med School in '66 and is now interning at King County Hosp. in Seattle. His address is in care of the hospital. JOHN MIESEL received his PhD in chemistry from the U. of Illinois in August and is now worlCin% as a chemist for Eli Lilly and Co. In '64 he married the former Sandra Lawrence and they have one daughter Marie-Loujse. They arc now residing at 4108 Independence Dr., In­dianapoUs 46227. JOHN TRACY is now facility manager with Control Data Corp. He, his wife and two children, Afargaret Alary 2 and Thomas Patrick 1, are residing at 2765 Ross Rd., Palo Alto, Calif. 94303. ROBERT B.ARTHOLOMEW lias completed his graduate studies and is now cm-ployed by Steelcase, Inc. as supervisor of industrial design and interior design. He is living at 7145 Thomcrest, SE, Grand Rapids, Mich. WILLIAM BISH has been promoted to captain in the Army where he is stationed with the legal assistance office of the staff Judge Advocate at Fort George Meade, Md. 
F. WALTER RIEBENACK has become asso­ciated with the firm of Rothberg', Gallmeyer, Fruechtenicht & Logan, Attorneys at Law, In Fort Wayne, Ind. GEORGE MURPHY received 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

his KIFA in the field of music and drama £roia 
/^ HIS BYWORD IS "EDUCATION"
the U. of Hawaii where he took part In the 
"N 

program at the East-West Center, an experiment 
in international education. ROBERT W. CIHAK 
has been awarded a Pfizer scholarship for medical 
school. He Is in his final year at UCLA. 
DONALD WAH YIM received his MD from 
Jefferson Medical Col. of Philadelphia in June 
and is now interning at LA County General Hosp. 
Lt. JOHN H. STEFFENS has been awarded 
the Distingubhcd Flying Cross for heroism in mili­
tary operations in Southeast Asia. He was also 
decorated with the Air Medal for outstanding air­
manship and courage on successful and important 
missions under hazardous conditions. CHARLES 
PRECOBB, a sales representative at Xerox's San 
Francisco branch, recently graduated from the 
corporation's national sales development center. 
ROBERT KELLEY JR. has been named a foi^ 
eign service ofiiccr. 
A letter from Class President E.\RL LINEHAN: 
I traveled down to Philadelphia for the Navy game with TOM SMITH and PHIL DRISCOLL who is out of the Navy. Among those we saw there were: PAUL CROTTY who is in his third year at Columbia Law School; DICK HUGHES who will be out of the Navy in December; the STEVE WEIDNERs who came up from Washing­ton; AL BRINI, a manufacturer of food products in Plj-mouth, Mass.; BEN ASPERO now working for a New Jersey law firm; JOE CAREY who came up from a Washington seminary; DICK CATENACCI now an assistant county attorney in New Jersey; DON CRIQUI the announcer for the New York Knickerbockers; JIM DeBOW with General Foods in White Plains, N.Y.; the MIKE GERAGHTYs who live on Long Island; JIM GMELIN working in New York; the GERRY GRAYs of Maryland where he is teaching; TOM HANLEY; TREY HEEKIN; and BRENDAN Mc-CRANE who is studying at Princeton's IVoodrow Wilson school. 
Also ran into: WARREN MARR; JOHN MACHECA whose wife Jeanne just gave birth .to their first child, a girl, tMy weeks before the game; BUCKY O'CONNOR with N.Y. Telephone; JOE DELLA AlARU; JIM SALMON with Westing­house on Long Island; the RON VANNUKIs from Cleveland where he is with .Arthur Andersen Co.; JIM GANNON; JOHN CROIVE who is with the ND Foundation; RAY RAEDY; the JIM KR-AUSERS who came up from Washington; JIM McGRANERY; and AL SMITH. 
Bucky O'Connor mentioned that he and D.AN KRALIK traveled to South Bend the Purdue weekend with Linda and JOHN TIDGEWELL. John has a brother James who is currently an N D junior. Also on hand for the Purdue game were JOHN GILLARD and TOM HATCH from Chi­cago and D.AVE WITCHGER up from the Indiana 
U. Graduate School of Business. 
TOM EIFF is now in Boston in his first year at the Harvard Business School. The BILL WEIN-SHEIMERs recently had their first child, a boy. Bill and Roberta joined GREG WEISMANTEL and JOE BRACCO in San Francisco to watch the Michigan State game. They talked at half-time with a large contingent of '62crs ivho were ^vatch­ing the game here in Boston. 
A reminder for ever^'one to start making plans to attend our Fifth-year Reunion on the 9, 10 and 11 of June. Based on the response I've heard to date, it should be a great turnout. You'll be receiv­ing more info about the Reunion soon. 
TERRENCE F. McCARTHY LT. (DC) USNR USNAVDENTCLINC, FPO San Francisco, Calif. 96662 
1962 LAW 
PAUL K. ROONEY 
U.S. Courthouse, Foley Sq., New York, N.Y. 10007 
DAVE FREDERICK is in his senior year of dentistry at Seton Hall School of Medi­

1963 
cine and Dentistry. He hopes to do his residency in oral surgery. Dave writes that he often sees GEORGE SHEER and KEN FISCELLO who are stud>ing medicine at the same school. FRANK LUCAS is now working as sales service manager 'for the Chicago plastics div. of Container Corp. of America. He was recent-
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
Luther BeUimgmr MA ^6S 
LUTHER BELLINGER MA '65 is a man who came to Notre Dame and South Bend for "just one year" and stayed to become one of the community's most con­cerned and involved citizens. Since residing in the area he has taught junior high school, supervised the introduction of the new math into the school system, helped to initi­ate several education-oriented pro­grams for underprivileged stu­dents, earned a graduate degree at Notre Dame and been appointed chairman of a local commission on human relations. An NSF scholarship for a year of graduate study in math brought Luther, his \vife Mary and son Luther Jr. to Notre Dame in June, 1963. That initial year broadened into four and brought to him an abiding interest in the new math, and to the community a new co­ordinator of mathematics and a leader in the field of human rela­tions. In his position as coordina­tor of math for the South Bend school corporation Luther was re­sponsible for designing a long-range program to assist students, teachers and parents in accepting the new mathematical system. He has conducted seminars and work­shops to familiarize teachers with concepts of the new math and to introduce them to new teaching methods complementary to the new concepts. One of his most imagina­tive and rewarding experiences was a 10-week TV series, "Modem Math for Parents," which he wrote and conducted. This semester he will continue the adult education program through a non-credit course in modem math at Indiana University extension in South Bend. A veteran junior high and high school teacher, Luther taught for a year at South Bend's Oliver school before being named to his present position as coordinator. His interest in the thinking and prob­lems of adolescents prompted his enrollment in Notre Dame's educa­tion department and earned him a master's degree in guidance and' counseling. A course assignment provided another interesting oudet­for tuther's talents. Through his contact with students both in the classroom and at a local youth cen­ter where he volunteered his eve­nings, Luther compiled thousands of slang words which formed the unique vocabulary of "in-words" 

among teen-age students. Organ­izing the words and definitions, he published A Guide to Slang, a paperboimd book designed to acquaint parents with the speech of their children. 
His ability to work in dose con­tact and imderstanding with stu­dents made him the logical choice as the only teacher representative in the pilot program of project STEP. Through the South Bend Training Employment Program (STEP) low-income students are offered job training and jobs to augment their present income to enable them to remain in school. This past summer he was also one of the participating teachers in Notre Dame's initial venture in the Upward Bound Program. 
Luther Bellinger's eagerness to aid students in pursuing their edu­cation is readily understood in light of his own experience. At the age of 10 he worked as a bellhop to help send an older sister through junior college. Luther, a high school salutatorian, owes his own college education to a benefactor who agreed to pay all tuition and costs at Johnson C. Smith Uni­versity in return for Luther's assis­tance with general housework, and the stipulation that he receive passing grades. 
It was while he was still a stu­dent that Luther became intensely interested in. human relations and began to explore the relation be­tween education and prejudice. Recently appointed chairman of the South Bend Human Relations and Fair Employment Commission, he believes that better human rela­tions are the result of people find­ing one thing in common and com­ing to. agreement about it "It doesn't matter how small a thing they agree on," he says, "for once they agree they are understanding each other as persons." 
ly discharged from the Army as a lieutcnsnt and 
awarded the CommcBdatton Afcdal. DICK HICK­
EY is now TDY to Alaska with the Army Chem. 
Corp. 
DAVE SWIRE is now out of the US Marine 
Corps and is working for Intcrlakc Steel in Chi­
cago. Sandra and JIM DUNCAN are the proud 
parents of a son Larry, bom in Sept., 1964. Jira is 
working for the Weyerhauscr Packaging group and 
Kving in Des Plaines, HI- TOM H.ALPERIN re­
ceived an MBA from Michigan State in *64 and 
worked for Procter & Gamble for a year before 
switching to electrical contracting in Chicago. Tom 
writes that JOHN McFADDEX and Hope Stahl-
man were married in Chicago on July 2. BILL 
GORMAN is at Purdue finishing up his doctorate 
in psychology and NICK KUEHX is due to receive 
his PhD in nuclear phj^ics soon from North 
Carolina. 
BILL FRY writes that he is now working at P»«bytcrian-St. Luke's Hosp. in Chicago. He plans to begin graduate work in hospital admin­istration soon and ^vill move ^vltli his family to San Antonio, Tex. where he will attend Trinity 
U. DAVE AMES is due to be discharged from duty aboard the carrier USS Franklin D. Roosevelt in October and plans to move back to Dbcon, III. vAih his wife Sheila. GIL SCHIMMQLER and wife Cathy recently became the parents of a son Jeffrey. Gil also recently received a master's in clinical psychology from Northem Tlinois U. ROBERT KLEIN recei\-ed His "SIX from Yale in '65 and is woHcing for his PhD. He is engaged to Oliwa Paiva of Su-ansea, Mass. and the wedding will be July 1. GENE FAUT has just moved into a new house in Schaumburg, HI. He is the father of three and is working for Admiral Corp. of Chi­cago as a sales rep. 
A daughter Jennifer Jane was bom Aug. 19 to Lt. CHARLES J. McCULLOUGH and wUe Heather. The McCulIoughs are residing at 5021 Beniamin St.^ Alexandria, 1.3. while Charles is at Engbnd AFB, La. TOM VECCHIONE was i c cently named the recipient of a government grant for tiic study of medicine at the Universty Hot­pital in Edinburgh, Scotland. Barbara and FRANK KAPPLE are the proud parents of a son Brian Joseph bom on July 24. Frank is employed b^ Arthur Andersen and the Kapples are lil^n; 1^ 1119 Greentree Ave., Decrfield, III. 
Capt. DENNIS DRENNAN was awarded tbe Vietnamese Medal of Merit for his medical woric among civilians in South Vietnam. He was also presented the Bronze Star for outstanding service against hostile forces. Denny is now a resident in Northwestern XJ/s program of orthopedic surgery* Sacred Heart Church was the scene of a double ring ceremony on Aug. 6 which united in marriage Mary Esther Stolces and RANDOLPH J. VUK­SANOVIC. HAL SUNDERMANN pased the Ohio Bar and planned to enter the Army VVL the Signal Corps in December. TOM VOLLMER recentlf recei\'ed the news that he had passed the New York Bar. Tom completed Naval OCS traiiung at Newport and was commissioned in December. 
RON SALDINO is in his last year of Med School at U. of Chicago and hopes to intern oa the West Coast. He is married to the former Jo* dith Lindell and spent part of the summer travetittg and studying in England and Greece where they honeymooned. Lt. PETER CERROW has logged 100 combat missions. He has been in Vietnam since July and has been decorated with the Air Medal for outstanding airmanship. PATRICK T. CAW­LEY is studying for the priesthood at St. John's Pro\*incial Seminary, P.O. Box 298, Flymoutlx, Mich. 48170. Lt. IRA STUDEBAKER is currently on duty at Fhan Rang AB, Vietnam as a construe* tion engineer. As a special project Lt. DAN MILLER USAF has been aiding 350 village chil-
ND MEN SERVING THEIR
Up FrontL

COUNTRY AROUND THE WORLD 
Lt. Donald Modica '64 ^vas a com­bat veteran of Jess than tivo months when he was engaged in action which merited him the Bronze Star wth "V" device. On Oct 28 his platoon was on a combined recon­naissance and ambush patrol when it encountered a Viet Cong force. Acting without hesitation he set up and executed an ambush and successfully led his men through attack and counterattack by the in­surgent forces. On Thanksgiving Day Don was cited for his "aggres­siveness, devotion to duty and per­sonal bravery." The Army lieu­tenant, who was a member of ROTC while at Notre Dame, has received two promotions since be­ing assigned to Vietnam. In No­vember he was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant and just prior to Christmas was named a 
staff of&cer. As an additional "Christmas present" Don was granted a five-day leave which he spent in Hawaii with his wife. His tour of duty in Vietnam is sched­uled to last until September, 1967. He would like to hear bom his classmates while stationed over there. His address is: Lt. Dcmald Modica 05533261, HQ Co., l/26th Infantry, 1st Infantry Div., APO San Francisco, Calif. 96345. 
Lt. Daniel J. Miller '63 is a covabat veteran of Vietnam. Stationed on Mactan Isle in the Philippine^ the Air Force transport pilot has flown his C-130 Hercules on more than 450 airlift missions over the war zone. But Lt Miller's accom­plishments are not read in his mili­tary record alone. Acquainting himself with Mactan and its people 

dren on Mactan Isle, Philippines obtain a new school building. He and his fellow airmen who ^ded in the construction of the school were hon­ored at the recent dedication ceremony. He is also a veteran of more than 450 combat missions in Vietnam. 
ALBERT KOHOUT was killed in an automobile accident in Defiance, Ohio, Nov. 2. Your prayers are requested. 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
1963 iAW JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN 1526 E. Cedar St, Soufh Bend, Ind. 46617 
1964 
WARREN C STEPHENS 1100 Clove Rd., No. 5-C Staten Island, New York 

' 1964 IAW 
n yon weren't there, you really missed a time! Due to a lot of planning and hard work on the parts of TOM KERN, CHARLIE O'MALLEY, CHUCK SWEENEY and ZARKO, the Class party 
shordy upion arrival, he soon dis­covered that the children of Punta Engano were attending school in "rather tight" quarters. The vil­lage's 350 students were crowded into five small classrooms. Rallying to the situation, Dan soon in­terested the men of his unit in the construction business. The airmen, donating both money and labor, set to work during their off-duty hours purchasing the necessary ma­terials, and building a new and larger school. Not too long ago Lt. Miller and his crew were guests of honor during the dedication ceremonies and formally presented the new school to the Punta En­gano village officials. 
Before LL John H. StefFens '62 re­turned from active duty in \^et­nam, he compiled an outstanding in-combat record. An electronic warfare officer he was awarded the Air Medal for outstanding airman­ship and courage, and merited the first through fifth oak leaf clusters for continued bravery during mis­sions under hazardous conditions. He was also decorated with the Distinguished Flying Cross and first oak leaf cluster for heroism and selfless devotion to duty while flying reconnaissance missions. Holder of a degree in aeronautical engineering from the University, John was in AFROTC and re­cdved his commission in 1962. 
A 12-year veteran of the Marine Corps, Major Odilio M. Diaz '54 
ALUMNUS JANUARY Wff FEBRUARY 

during the Duke weekend was a smashing success. Festivities began on Friday with the opening of a fuiiily.si2ed bottle of the elixir known as "The Sure One" and continued almost without break into the dawn of Sunday. A post'game loU call found the following in attendance in various states of alertness: your scribe (very alert so that ac­curate notes could be taken), BOB FROST, the HACKETTs, the KATZEs, the KERNs, CAROL KILLIAN, GENE KRAMER, the "COMMO­DORE," the MacFARLANEs, the McDONALDs, the MORSEs, CHARLIE O'MALLEY, JACK RAMMEL, the RYANs, the ZARKOs, the SMirHs, the SULLIVANs, the SWEENEYs and the ZAVODNYIKs. Where were you. DAVE PETRE? 
TOM KERN has quite a file with letters ftom classmates who couldn't make it and perhaps some of those letters will form a basis for future col­umns. Dean O'MEARA attended a prenUnner cocktail hour after the game and attencbnce at a post-dinner cocktail hour was bolstered by Profes­sors MURPHY, SHAFFER and RODES et ux. Because of space limitations we may not get the ncu-s on everyone in this time but here goes! FROSTY is now practicing in Columbus, Ohio with Lane, Huggard & Alton and he has a bach­elor pad at 679 Harlcy Dr. in that city. The HACKETTs report all is well in Lewiston, N.Y. and the Dean confirmed that with a pointed re­mark about Glenn's girth. The KATZEs have moved to an apartment in Elkhart and BERNIE spent the evening extolling the virtues of that fair city. CAROL KILLIAN has moved to 2714 Iron­wood in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio and she'd appreciate hearing from >'ou all. 
Chicago bade adieu to the "COMMODORE" on Dec. 9, when he returned to sunny California to frolic in the surf. As adminstrativc assistant to Assemblyman-elcct Cullcn, his address will be 726 
is the holder of five Air Medals and has been decorated with the National Defense Medal. He spent 1965-66 in Chu Lai, Vietnam where he flew over 90 combat mis­sions with a Marine attack squad­ron. A graduate from the College of Business Administration, Major Diaz is currently stationed at El Toro, Calif, as an aviation safety officer. 
The base of operations for Capt. William Martin *6I is a smaU "tin city" in a forward combat zone in Vietnam. Operating from within a barbed wire compound. Bill is the weapons controller among a select group of men who locate supersonic aircraft and guide the pilots to and from target destina­tions in the North. An AFROTC member while at the University he was commissioned in 1961. 
"Distinguished Company Grade Officer of the Year" was the com­mendation merited recendy by Capt. Thomas M. Medland '61. A production officer at Ramstein AB, Germany, Tom was cited for his work as a coordinator between con­tractor field teams and the base supply agencies. The top officer in the /^ Force's European procure­ment r^o n received his BS in mechanical engineering from the University and a master's in indus­trial engineering from Purdue. Tom was a distinguished graduate of the AFROTC program. . 
E. Carson, Torrance, CaliL 90502. The Ifie-FARLANEs are still living in N.Y. and both a n fine although we did get a bit worried aixMit Itttf when she came to the party without her infinvnit water pistol. MAXEY was due to ship oot to the Vietnam zone a few weeks after the party and be said he'd appreciate hearing from any of ns. Jnit write to him in care of his parents at 1132 Berkeley Sq., LouisvUIe, Ky. 40213. He-U join BALFE WAGNER over there and word has it that JDC MERCURIO is there also. How about Temember> ing those guys in your prayers? 
The MORSEs were there in top form and of course Judy was her usual calm sdf. Hiya, Jody! JACK RAMMEL, recently sprung from the Army, has joined MIKE MILLER in the trust dept. at the First National Bank in Chic^o and he reports that all the trusts are in order. MKE RYAN spent the evening looking for JIM CARROLL so he could get a bridge game going. MIKE has satisfactorily retained his fighting weight and that too bore the brunt of a remark from the Dean. In addition to practicing law there, ZARKO is Gtf Engineer in East Chicago, Ind. and reports that he is generally tightening h^ grip on the town. The SULLIVANs zipped in from Kalamazoo where MIKE u practicing and both were their usual dml* Kent selves. 
FIRST NOTICE!! Don't say you had no vam­ing. Keep Oct. 14 open for the "Second Ammal Class of '64 Bash." Plans are being made to con­tinue this great tradition and we want an even better turnout than that at this year's affair. The slogan — "Make the Scene on Ten-Fourteen!" 
THOAAAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, 
III. 60202 
PAT KEALVs wife Christine presented him with their first child Sean last August. 
1965 
Pat is working with 
A. G. Bechy & Co., investment bankets, in NYC and is living in Cranford, N.J. BRUCE PALKA has entered Yale on a three-year NASA grant for a doctorate in math. Bruce has also spent a year at Heidelberg U. in Germany while on a Fulbright Schobrship. JERRY SWLACKI is the father of two children, Kristen Marie and Gerald Michael who were bom a year apart. Jerry is studying med­icine at Chicago Col. of Osteopathy under a schol­arship from the Barger Ins. Co. He spent last summer worlung on a ps>xhiatric fellowship for the NIH at Chicago State Hosp. Lt. DAVE SCHLACHTER USAF is flying a C-130 Hercules with the 316th Troop Carrier Wing, Langley AFB, Va. 

GARY L. THEBAULT is serving as an industrial rep for Weyer-Haeuser Co. in western Michigan while living near Grand Rapids. Gary and his wife Michele are the proud patents of a son Mark bom in July. TIMOTHY LAWRENCE and his wife Mary Kay are parents for the second time as of &Iay. Eileen and Duane are their two children. Tim is employed with Prager Storage and Van in Naperville, 111. as a sales manager. Lt. JOSEPH 
J. LIMANOWSKI USA was married in October to Marie C. Mararita of Yonkers, N.Y. Joe has completed a radio officer's course at Ft. Mon­mouth, N.J. and is now stationed at Ft. Irvin, Calif. BOB GELMARTIN has accepted a position as staff announcer, sales rep and sports "pUy-iiy­play" announcer for radio station KFRD which serves a 21-county area on the Texas Gulf Coast. Bob also finds time to write a weekly sports cot­unm for an area paper and to attend night law school at South Texas Col. 
JIM WALSH is representing Collins Radio Co. as a field service engineer at McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis. Jim expects to leave soon for the Far East as Collins handles most of the communicatJons and navigation equipment aboard the F-4 Phan­tom fighter. FR-ANK W. BRENNAN was married in August to Patricia Kctt of Chicago. Lt. JACK PASCA USA left in January for Vietnam where he's serving as a tank platoon leader for the First Infantry Div. Lt. JOE LEVATINO has been sta­tioned with the First Air Cavalry in Vietnam since August. RAY BEJARANO was married in Decem­ber to Gail Judson Willett of NYC. A number of ND men Wlere present for the occasion. MIKE READ is in his second year of law studies at Loy­ola U. in New Orleans. Mike has aho been ai^ pointed assistant secretary of the ND Chib of New Orleans. 
JOE CRECCA was married in September to Ann Heun in Orange, N.J. SAM McCLELLAND, JIM BimKE and JACK KELLER were present for die aflEur. tmu BILL HAFEL hai been i lened to the VSS Stmtlmaiy, a hosphal sh ^ PAUL MURFHY was Bamcd ia A>«iiM «» Aaaetle Oaigie m Baitfacd, Coaa. And ii ia las tttami year at Boatoa CoL Lanr School aad is Erias ia Bri^Uoa, llaa. ED LUFION s«acd a bHcUi coatiaet with the Washingtoa Seaaton after gm h aiioB aad has receatly beea awjgnwi lor aeztaea­ioa to Hawan, their AAA team at the hdic Coast League. Ed is wo^ag for the Baak of-Aiaeiica ia the off-seaioa aad if Ering ia llaa­hattaa Beach, CiGf. PAUS KNIFFER a ttniwm with the F^ace Corps in Niamey, Niger which is a anall repobGc jnst north o( Nigeria and sooth of Algeria. Vmd spends cnnnderalile tiae forhiag athlrtirs and trarhing snch sports as bakethalL liaul's "Heart of Darkness" boasts a teaipcxamie lange of 60-lSO degrees thtonghout the year. 
Lt. PAUL SIEGFRIED USA has retnraed ba a a year's duty in Korea aad is now statianed'at F t Benning where he's •'^rt'!^ tt the blutir SchooL Ray coached the Seveath Uin't haiDb« team last winter which won dK Ei^di Anay, Tournament. Then he coatled die Eii)itb Atay team to nctocy in the US Aimy ]hdSc Taama­ment and three of ins 6^te n captnrcd AD-Anay titles. Ray reports that STAN ANTONGIOVAN-Nl plans to many Kathy Devine and DICK Uo-CARTHY win many her rister. JOHN DEE w » married to Ifaigot Osthdmer SMC 'G6 ia Jnnr. John recehnd a master's in ecnnoaucs torn ND and u now stationed with the USMC Reserves ia Camp Fkndletoa, CaEf. They are "i*** ''-a Oar first diild in ApriL JOHN MOYE was a«^ted to Fatti Theiien SMC '67. John is studyins law at Gomell U. where he has beea extended •*••.!* •*•*• recngnitioa for outstanfi^ woA in the fonn oi an imntation to compete for membership on the board of editors of the Cornell law quarterly. 
jni J. O'BRIEN and his wife Janet are the 
proud parents of a baby giri as o{ last August. 
ED OJDANA b engaged to Veronica Dobek. Ed is 
completing requirements for an &IS in aeronautical 
engineering which Iiell receive from Ohio State U. 
in March. We have two changes of addresses: Em. 
WILLIAM R. HAFEL USNR, VSS Samchuay 
(AH-17), FFO, San Francisco, Calif. 96601; ED 
LUFTON, 112 37th PL, Manhattan Beach, CaEf. 
JOHN LOPEZ BA '65 and BSEE '66 has passed his Peace Corps training and wiU be sermng in Brazil where he will be engaged' in %irork on the production and use of electridty. CHARLES GIB­BON PhD '65 a currently a member of the tech­nical staff at BeE Telephone Labs in Murray HUl, 
N.J. MICHAEL WILSEY who is now at Harvard School of Buriness Administration has been selected as one of 20 National Honorary Fellows an award made in recognition of exceptional intellectnal promise and potential for responsble postions ia the world of affairs. Lt. JOSEPH YADOUGA has been awarded pilot's wings in the Air Force at Reese AFB, Tex. He has been ass^ned to T.i^liKw AFB for duty as an instructor pilot. 
JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, 
Ohio 44514 
1965 lAW 

Just heard recently from Sue and JIM LEON­ARD who welcomed a daughter to the world oa Seft, 1. Jim b now aaodatcd with Laagerman, Beagam amd Lewis, a personal injury trial fim. Sue daios that Jim ii extremely happy with his new job. Loads of luck to you, Jim! It has oftea been said that faistary repeats itseU! We recently congratulated the HOOVERs on the birth of the Gist set of twins bom to the '65 Legal Domers. WeE — guess what? Chrb and JOHN W. BEAT­TV are now the proud parents of Cathleen and Bitrick bc»m on Oct. 4. According to Chris it was aE a surprise! Congratulations to the new parents. 
We frally heard from Ootde and HENRY BOrrEL who teE us they are living in a four-and­a-balf-room apartment—^*r^ht off the Narrows and less than a mile from the Verrazano Bridge." Henry stiE has hopes of going into practice for himself someday. BILL BISH, now a captain, aad hb wife Jane are also among the list of new par­ents havii^ welcomed Elaine Louise to tlieir hoose­bold as of Oct. 13. I'm not <me to blow my owa horn, but we had our third son Stephen Mirhari bom to ns Oct. 22. I could easily SB thb colnma with hb many attributes but then the cohmm woidd he so lengthy that thb entire ime would be devoted to him. Ify other two Etde ae a nopiy adore him. 
Just before maiEng this draft for ptdiCcatioB I Kcrived word bom "TEX" DUTILE who ia­fonaed ns of Ins new trafhing posilitm and the 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
impending birth of their second child during the holiday season. Do hope to hear more from you, Tex, about your new profession. 
Jan and I saw Kathy and JOHN McQUILLAN in early September at an SMC wedding which we attended. They are now the proud parents of a son, Blaine William, bom Sept. 27 
IVof. Noonan is really getting the publicity-^ America, Catholic JVorld^ etc. with his articles on contraception. Has cver>'one read G. ROBERT BL.-\KEY*s sul:dc, **Obscenity and the Supreme Court" in America, Aug, 13? Such acdaim for the Alma Afater! 
JOHN A. HAUTER 

were TOM SULLIVAN, JOE SOMMERS, JOHN CAVAN, KEVIN DALY and JAY McGOWAN. Jay's doing a lot of traveling these days as an admissions counselor for . the University. He's also working on a master's degree whenever he'i on campus. Kevin is doing graduate woA at Princeton. John is currently at Fort Dot vthtxe he is in Army OCS in the Quartermaster Corpi. From there it looks like Fort Knox and tbien Fort Lee, Va. for John whose letters have made yours truly wish he w ^ back to the "good old days" under the Golden Dome. Rounding out the Eastern news comes word that TOM CALLAH.\N is at Wharton Bu^ness School and TIM BARD is in Navy OCS at Newport, R. I. 
REV. WILLIAM M. Lewers CSC, a member of the Law School faculty ance 1964, is counsel for the National Catholic Conference on Interracial Justice and for the 11 Catholic bishops who are friends of the court in Loving V. Virginia, an appeal in the US Supreme Court contesting the validity of the Virginia antimiscegenation statute. 
1050 Indiana Ave., Glenwood, 
III. 60425 
Well, fcllas, I guess we left a year too soon, huh? Tha t National Championship we were 

1966 
waiting for took a year 

too long to get here. In a few years no one vnU 
know however, and we can tell evcr>'onc we grad­
uated in 1966, the year the Irish won the National 
Championship. I*d like to congratulate our class­
mates, NICK EDDY and PETE DURANKO, who 
were both chosen to All-Amcrican teams and ^vho 
both played such a major role in Notre Dame*s 
National Championship. While wc*re on the sub­
ject of football, I'd like to congratulate MIKE 
W.ADSWORTH wiio had a tremendous season in 
Canadian Football as did iOKE \VEBSTER. Con­
gratulations also go out to ARUN.A.S V.^SYS who 
broke into the starting lineup with the Philadelphia 
Eagles. 
While attending school in Chicago I've run into 
many classmates on the streets, in restaurants and 
even in a laundromat. Classmates JIM PHELAN, 
JOE ROMANO, PETE CAREY, GORDON 
NASH, MIKE CARRIGAN and MIKE MUR­
PHY are keeping busy with their studies at Lo>-oIa 
Law School. Northwestern students we see quite 
often are law students JIM MURRAY, JAMIE 
TOOHEY, BARRY McNAMARA and FRANK 
MURTHA. Frank had a rather difficult time study­
ing though in contemplation of his Dec. 27th mar­
riage date. He says he*U be back from his honey­
moon in time to take his finals though. I'd like to 
congratulate Frank and wish him and his wife the 
very best of everything. We also see JOHN FRY, 
GEORGE BERNARD and GUY WILLIAMS run­
ning around town with medical books in hand. 
BILL O'BRIEN, BILL O'GRADY and HUGH 
O'BRIEN are also in the Windy City stud>ing at 
U. of Chicago and BILL ROCHE and RAY NEI­HENGEN are in Chicago at Northwestern Busi­ness School. DAVE PLUMMER is also in town woridng at Bell Telephone Labs, and studying for a master's degree at Northwestern, and JIM DOWNER is here attending George Washington Law SchooL 
From the East (where it's also cold) comes news of others from the Class of '66. DAVE McSORLEY is at Duquesne Law School in Pitts­burgh selling his **routine" to some Pittsburgh lasses. JOE SOMMERS is settled in Washington and keeping busy at George Washington U. Law School. MIKE RUSH is on a fcllou^hip at Syracuse U. studying public administration and working as a fraternity advisor. &1INCH LEWIS is also in the same program at Syracuse. TOM SULLIVAN is also an Orangeman (Ben Sch^vartz­walder is sorry he's not an undcrgrad) doing graduate work in radio and TV. Brother JOHN READY CSC is teaching ancient and medieval history at Gilmore Academy in Gates Alills, Ohio. BOB LAURINO and JED KEE are at NYU. Bob is working for his MBA and Jed is attending law school there. BILL "G\MEL" JOSEPH is studying hard at the U of Cincinnati Law School and JOHN BEAAfIS is at the U. of Vennont Medical School. TOM BETTAG is studying at Columbia U. and AL VOLKENAAR and MIKE BRADSHAW are at the U. of Virginia. At George­town Law School are BRIAN CONNOLLY and JIM GALLAGHER. TOM HUGHES is studying at Ohio State &fedical School. 
StiQ more information from the East tells us that BILL FESSLER has joined the General Electric Research and De\*eIopmcnt Center's general chemistry lab in Schenectady. JOE KING is working on his &IBA at Har\-ard Business School compliments of a Harvard Business School Club of Chicago Fellowship. KEN GRAF is at Hahnemann &ledical Col. in Philadelphia. 
The Ben Franklin Hotel in New York was the ate of an Alumni reunion after the ND-Na\-y game. Among the members of the Class of '66 present 
I ran into PAT CASHILL a while ago when he was in town prior to the ND-Duke game. Pat is working hard but loves the life at Colorado Law School. He telk us that MIKE McKIM and MIKE DONAHUE are law students at Creighton 
U. I hope nobody tries to tell **Mag€X>" or **Bear*' that Nebraska has a better football team than ND. 
A couple of weddings we failed to mention in our last article were TOM BLYTHE's on Sept. 3, TERRY O'DONNELL's on Aug. 13, and AL BRAUN's on Aug. 27. Tom is now working in Dayton for Wright-Patterson Co. Congratula­tions to them all and to ED DEAN who was married on Dec. 28 in Portland, Ore. This marks one of the few times Ed has ever been caught. Ed has received an NCAA postgraduate sch<rfai^ ship in engineering science and Is currently at the 
U. of California, Berkeley, working on his PhD in nuclear engineering. 
Since we're in the love light we also have two engagements to announce: JAMES KEIPER to Miss Joan Walsh and PETE CAREY to Miss Maiy Madden SMC '66. Pete and &Iary mil be married in Chicago on Feb. 4 a date which all the Class of '66 alums in Chicago are looking foru'ard to. BILL WILKIE is studying in the Graduate School of Business at Stanford U. where he has received a Stanford-Sloan Fellowship. MIKE MacDONALD and QUENTIN MacKfANUS are both freshmen in the Medical School of Washington U. in St. Louis as is TOM HERN who attends night school there while working with AfcDonald Aircraft in St. Louis. Tom turned down a scholarship to Purdue to accept the McDonald position (or was it out of loyalty to ND) . MIKE GEISLER is doing graduate work in philosophy at the Roman Col. of the Holy Cross in Rome. 
Three members of our Class are in the Peace Corps. CHARLEY ROSS is teaching in Korea; VINCE BECKKIAN is in Peru where he wiU engage in community development and agriculture extension programs; DENNIS DUNIGAN is in Uruguay where he will also engage in urban com­munity development. Congratulations to these men for their dedication and generosity. 
GERRY O'MEARA is at the U. of Arizona Law School. His ND roommate NICK TOBIN is teaching in California while in the MAT program at Stanford. They were both in at­tendance at the ND-USC romp as were JOHN MCCAFFREY, BILL LEONARD, BILL MCGANN, TIM CULLEN, DAN ROONEY, JIM KEIPER, BILL O'DWYER, BOB LEBRECQUE and JOE CROCIATA all of whom are studying at the Navy's Nuclear Power School at Mare Bland, California right outside of San Francisco. 
PETE SILLARI, GEORGE MELNYK. TED STANKO and PAT FARRELL are at PensacoU learning to fly for the Na\,-y. JOHN RAHIYA is also in Na\-y OCS. CARMEN lANDOLO JR. has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Force and assigned to Chanute AFB, HI. for training as an aircrraft maintenance officer. BOB RIVELLO is in Infantry School at Ft. Benning and PAUL BERGSON is at Fort Riley, Kan. DAVE GARRICK is a second lieutenant at Fort Monmouth, N.J. MIKE "ROOT" MAAS was commissioned ensign in the US Navy in October and will soon serve aboard the missile cruiser USS Springfield operating in the Mediterranean after completion of an 11-week guided missile school in Virginia Beach, Va. Mike was joined at OCS training by MARK GONRING, BOB BASCHE and JOHN WETZLER. 
I want to thank you all for your great con­tribution to this article. Your submitting of in­formation these past two months has been simply great. Please keep it up. I hope you all had a wonderful holiday season and that the year 1967 holds much happiness and success in store for all of you. 
RICHARD ANGELOni 3404 Greenfield Dr., Erie,, Po. 16512 

Father Lewers is active in research, investigation and advocacy in civil rights. He has spent two summers as a civil rights lawyer in Mississippi and last summer was accompanied by four law students into the grass roots of civil rights in Mississippi, Kentucky and South Carolina. He is also a member of the Indiana advisory com­mittee to the federal Civil Rights Commission and has assisted Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, a member of the Commission. Father Lewers is now preparing complaints and supporting triaj briefs in 10 federal actions against s^regated hospitals in Mississippi. 
Father Lewers is also busy vndi on­the-scene investigations and hearings, as well as legal research, for a report on indigent families in Gary, Indiana and on the possibly invalid exemption of migrant farm workers from federal welfare legislation. 
He is currently assisting Father Hesburgh in planning an international conference on himian rights to be held in Montreal next year. He recently participated in a conference at the University of Chicago on the selective service. 
Father Lewers teaches torts at the Law School which was his specialty when he taught law at the Universities of Kentucky and Illinois prior to entering the Congregation of the Holy Cross. He holds degrees from the University of Illinois, practiced law for two years in Kansas City, was a Sterling Fellow at the Yale Law School and is a member of the Mis­souri Bar. He also teaches Interna­tional Law and a seminar on civil rights. 
He finds time to spend two evenings a week in his office at the Law School to be available to students who look upon him as their special chaplain and another two or three evenings at Moreau Seminary where he is a member of the house council. 
Father Lewers is. Dean O'Meara said in welcoming hha to the faculty nearly two years ago, "an outstanding teacher and a tremendous man;" his days at Notre Dame are incredibly crowded but all of them are inspired by what Dean O'Meara called his "genuine compassion and abundant p}mmon sense." 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19«7 FEBRUARY 

Other Faculty News. Assistant Dean Thomas F. Broden Jr. KSG was co-chairman of the executive planning committee for a three-day Greater South Bend Housing Conference in the Center for Continuing Education in December. Dean Broden is a mem­ber of the South Bend Human Rela­tions and Fair Employment Practices Commission and a consultant to the Office of Economic Opportunity. 
Prof. John J. Broderick is co-chairman of the 15th Annual Union-Management Conference to be held on the campus Feb. 24; he is also co-editor of the Conference's proceed­ings with Rev. Mark Fitzgerald CSC of the economics department. The subject for this year's conference is, "Pending Issues in Collective Bar­gaining." Prof. Broderick and Judge William B. Lawless of the Law School's Advisory Council represented Notre Dame at the 10th Annual Careers Conference at Canisius Col­lege Oct. 19. It was the third time he and Judge Lawless have appeared on that program. Prof. Broderick visited five other colleges in New York in October as a recruiter for the Law School. He was a guest of the Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps on an inspection tour of Dover Air Force Base, Delaware, Oct 6-8: he addressed the Notre Dame corps, Dec. 9, on evidence and military justice. 
Prof. John T. Noonan Jr. addressed four groups in the Philippines, No­vember 10-12, including the meeting of the World Medical Congress in Manila, Nov. 10, on the subject of contraception. He has addressed 84 groups since the publication of his 
book. Contraception: A History of its Treatment by Catholic Theologians 
and Canonists. He has spoken in 15 
In the December 
NOTRE DAME LAWYER 
Harry L. Browne, "The Labor 

Board Unsettles the Scales" 
Thomas L. Shaffer, "Nonestate 

Planning." 
Richard B. Glickman, "The 

Payor as Holder Under Articles 
Three and Four of the Uniform 
Commercial Code." 
William A. Carroll, "Natural 

Law and Freedom of Communica­
tion Under the Fourteenth Amend­
ment." 
Student note on the federal estate 

taxation of gifts in trust to profes­
sional associations. 
Student recent decision notes on 

six important cases. 
Book reviews by Professor Roger 

Paul Peters and William B. Gould. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
THOMAS L 

/ liOW) School 
SHAFFER 

states, in Rome, Montreal, Nova Scotia, the Louvain, Ireland and Tokyo to more than 30 imiversity audiences, members of the papal com­mission on population control, clerical groups, conferences and meetings of bishops. Prof. Noonan will spend the spring semester this year at the Uni­versity of California School of Law, Berkeley, where he will teach a course-in professional responsibility and a seminar on the courts of the Roman Catholic Church. 
Spring Symposium. The Spring Sym­posium this year will be on the rec­ommendations of the American Bar Association Advisory Committee on Fair Trial and Free Press. The sym­posium will be in the Center for Con­tinuing Education, Feb. 18. Speakers will discuss voluntary restraints on the mass media, legislative limitations on pre-trial publicity, constitutional problems, expanding trial coverage by television and radio, and alternatives to the Committee's recommendations. Prof. Emeritus William D. Rollison 
In the 1966 volume (Vol. II) 
NATURAL LAW FORUM 
Lead articles by Ch. Perelman. 
Charles Fried, Giorgio Del Vec­
chio, and Aleksander W. Rudzin­
ski 
Two notes 
Ten reviews 

is the author of "Some Modem Problems in EsUte Planning" in the October Alabama Lawyer. He is now Distinguished Professor of Law at the Cumberland School of Law, Samford University, Birmingham. 
News Notes. Lt Richard E. Stan­bronn '66L graduated first in his class at the Army Provost Marshall General's School, Fort Gordon, Ga., thereby earning die Association of the United States Army plaque.. He has been assigned as provost marshal! and detachment commander of Fort Greely, Alaska. He was admitted to the Indiana Bar in November. 
Jon S. Kubiak '60L was appointed corporate attorney on the 1^ ^ staff of Maremont Corp., Chicago, after several years as assistant attorney gen­eral of Illinois on the staff of the Illinois State Toll Highway Commis­sion. 
E. Andrew Steffen '48, '50L was elected vice-president for public affairs of the Indiana Bell Telephone Company. He has been on the corporate staff there ance 1953. 
James P. Bowers '66L was ap­pointed an estate and gift tax ex­aminer for the Internal Revenue Service, Kansas City. 
Judge Charles Faihy, United States Court of Appeals, Washington, D.C. was named an honorary member of the Notre Dame Law Ass'n. at a luncheon ceremony Dec. 19. 
Clubs 
The year's end saw Notre Dame Clubs from coast to coast enjoy an activitj'-filled calendar, ranging from the annual Notre Dame Communion Day observance to civic testimonial banquets for the nation's number one football team. Other highlights of die November-December country­wide club agenda included tlie in­auguration of die Dallas Club's dis­tinguished guest lecture series, the obsen'ance by Cleveland Alumni of dieir club's 50th anniversaiy and the Los Angeles Club's welcome for the Hawaiian-bound basketball team. Still other clubs planned their holiday schedules around Christmas and New Year's Eve dinner dances. 
Most common, however, to more than 50 Notre Dame clubs was the obscn^ance of Communion Day. Al­diough die exact date was left to the discretion of die individual clubs, ND Communion Day this year was held in early December with many clubs switchinar from die traditional Sunday affairs to weekday evening programs. This year's theme for Com­munion Day was the "Future of Cath­olic Education" and in lai-ge part was prompted by the recent study on Catholic education made by the Uni­versity. At most of the clubs' ob­servances local diocesan and com­munity education leaders addressed die Alumni. 

The month of December also saw Notre Dame's national championship football team brought into the spot­light of several club progi'ams. The St. Joseph Valley Club held its annual banquet in die University's North Dining Hall to honor this yeai-'s un­defeated squad. In Chicago and Cleveland the University's Alumni not only paid tribute to the 1966 Fighting Irish but also honored their areas' top high school scholar-athletes at their respective Rockne A\\'ard Dinners. Details of these and many odier Club activides follow. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

Mii' SOMitti' BctBit at the annual civic testimonial banquet sponsored 
by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni (left). Captain Jim Lynch and Coach Ara Parscgliian accepted the United Press International's championship trophy presented by Win. T. Hamilton, general manager of South Bend's UPI affiliate radio and TV station, WNDU, Chicago's Palmer House, Dec. 6 (above)^ ivas the site of that city's annual Rockne Awards Night where both the ^'Fighting Irish" and more than 100 of Chicago's outstanding high school scholar-athletes zvere honored. Coach Parseghian presented Rockne Awards to the area's top players: (left to right) Randy Marks, Loyola Academy; Tom Pyrz, Argo High School; and Darrell Splithoff, Lane Tech. In Miami, Alumjii lunched with several members of the team who were in the city to play in the annual North-South game. Shown below (standing) George Hero, Club president; Charley Callahan, former ND sports publicity director now with the Miami Dolphins; tackle Pete Duranko, voted the most valuable player on the North team; fullback Larry Conjar; linebacker John Homey; and center George Goeddeke. Kneeling in front are Larry Coittrc who played at ND from 1946-49, and Bill Zloch, quarterback for the Irish in 1965. 
AKRON: 

The team niiislicd Number One in the nation. 
It u*as a ^Tcut season for Xoire Dame, The Akron 
Chib celebrated with its annual Dinner Dance on 
Saturday, Jan. 28 at tlie Akron City Club. 
On Dec. 8, ND men and their wives attended ilass at G:30 pni in the Newman Center on the Akron U. campus. Immediately following they gathered at the Tangit-r for dinner. JIM DET­TLING was in charge of reser\'ations. 
•' ATLANTA 

While 85.2 percent of iJie nation were privileged to watch the ND-MSU game on live TV, the Southeast was to be denied live coverage. With this in mind the Club contacted the University to ascertain the possibility and plausibility of closed* circuit coverage. After weeks of tentative agree­ments and arnnigements with a host of organiza­tions we received final approval from the NC.-\^\, for a telecast subject to the restriction that only card-carr>ing nienibers of the Notre Dame and Michigan Slate Altnnni Clubs would be allowed to view the live broadcast. Approximately 1,000 tnie sports fans (all dedicated nienjbers of the ND and MSU Alunnn Clubs) watched the kick­ofT and sufTered through some three hours of ag­ony. Both clubs benefitted from the concentrated membership drive although the ND Club in par­ticular is a nnich stronger organization. With the ND-Georgia Tech series to be played on a hoine­at-honie basis, three of the next five games w*ill be played here in .Atlanta. Thus the Club will have a rallying point from which it can branch out into bigger and better events with a corresponding bene­fit to the University. 
Universal ND Communion Sunday vras scheduled for Dec. 18. However, at the time of this writing final plans had not as yet been formulated and the speaker and the program were still tentative. 
—JAMES EICHELBERGER, Secretary 
BOSTON 

Quite a few' members of the Club attended the Na\*\- game in Philadelphia. Among them were PHIL PIIILBIN. .ARTHUR McM.VNMON, JACK SAUNDERS, BOB 2^I.-\RR, DICK MURPHY, ARTHUR MURPHY. XHKE \VTLLTAMS and JACK LAMERE. 
The annual Victory Dance was held after the Michigan State game at the Holiday Inn in Newton. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held Dec 11 with ^fass at Holy Cross Cathedral and break­fast at the Red Coach Grill in Boston. ^Vssistact Alumni Secretary JAMES COO.XEY did an able job as guest speaker. 
—JACK LAMERE, Secretary 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
BUFFALO 

Our Pnii"'*^ Notre Dame Family Commumon 
Breakfast was held at Rosary Hill Col. oa 
De c 11. Mass was at 8:00 am with breakfast 
following. During the formal part of the program 
separate entertainment was prondcd for the chil­
dreo. Father Francis V. Coumccn SJ, f:hainnan 
of the philosophy dept. at Canisius Col., was our 
guest speaker. HAROLD AUGUSTINE \vas chair­

man for the event. 
—EDWARD C. COSGROVE, President 

- CALUMET DISTRICT ^^ ^ INDIANA 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held on De c 11 at the Capuchin .Seminary of St. Mary located just northeast of Crou-n Point. Club Chap­lain Father JUAN FLOREZ celebrated the 10:30 am Kfass. Breakfast was served immediately follow­ing in the seminary dining room. Father Carl Skfengling gave a short talk. Co-chainnen for the event were MIKE DERRANE and JOHN MC­QUILLAN. 
^^^ CENTRAL JERSEY ^^^ 
More than 500 Alumni and friends made the trip to John F. Kennedy Stadium in Philadelphia on October 29 for the Navy game and were blessed with excellent weather and a bit of unexpected resistance from a determined opponent. Navy final­ly bowed to the ine\^table and became no. 6 on the Irish parade. DICK CONNELLY '55 did his U5u^ excellent job as chairman on this trip. 
President JACK MULLEN '53 has announced a full program for the first half of 1967. Tlie annual Communion Breakfast \^*as scheduled to be held on January 29 at St. Peter's Hospital Chapel in New Brunswick with the breakfast following at the Roger Smith Hotel. Father John Shecrin was the guest speaker. 
The Club will also have a contingent at the ND­
NYU basketball game on February 23 at Madison 
Square Garden. 
Date and site have already been established for 
the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner 
dance; the date is April 22 and the place is Plain­
field Country Club which was tlie site of last 
year's affair. The final event of the spring season 
will be the annual golf outing, June 8, at Fiddler's 
Elbo\v% a beautiful layout in the Central Jersey 
foothills. 
Any Alumnus in the Central Jersey area inter­
ested in the above events is cordially invited to 
contact any Club member for further details. In 
the meantime we will try to keep you informed 
through this column. 
—HOWARD J. GILLESPIE '34 
VP-Public Relations 

^^ CENTRAL NEW YORK ^^ 
The Central New York Club hosted a smoker at 
McCarthy's Sea Food House on Oct. 11. Alumni 
and friends of Notre Dame saw films of Irish foot­
ball in years past followed by card games and the 
renewing of old friendships. Two prizes of tickets 
to A c ND-Navy game at Philadelpliia together 
with expense money for the trip were awarded 
during ^ e evening.' 
—ART KANERVIKO, Secretary 
CHICAGO 

Coach Parseghian, his staff and the team were honored for thur National Championship season • on De c 5 at the Club's Ninth Annual Knute Rockne Award Dinner in the Grand Ballroom of the Palmer House. Chairman JOHNNY LATTNER and his committcctnen &L\RIO TONELLI and GEORGE RASSAS arc to be congratulated for bringing tc^ether one of the largest Alumnt gath­erings in history. 
Over 1,450 Almnni and guests also saluted 110 .Chicagf>-area prep football stars and their coaches. Each boy was a nominee for one of the three Rockne Au-ards given each year to the outstanding scholar-athletes in Chicagoland. The recipients of the awards were Tom Pryz of Argo HS, the Sub­urban League winner; Darrell Splithoff of Lane Tech, the Public League Winner; and Randy ItCaxks of Loyola Academy, the Catholic League winner. 
Bill Gleason, sports columnist for Chicago's American did an excellent job as toastmaster. The principal ^>eaker was Paul Christman, former quarteibadc for the Chicago Cardinals and now a noted T V commentator. Father EDMUNT> JOYCE CSC and "MOOSE" KRAUSE also spoke as part of the program. 
Coach Paiseghian discussed the season in gen­eral and the Michigan State game in particular before introdudng several of the Irish stars in-eluding Capt. Jim Lynch, Ke\-in Hardy, George 
Goeddeke, Don Gmitter, Pete Duranko and Ruil 
Seller. 
Also in the crowd were many other familiar 
names in Notre Dame football history: former 
coaches FRANK LEAHY, TERRY BRENNAN 
and ELMER LAYDEN and BILL STEINKEM­
PER, MARTY WENDELL, TOM CONLEY, 
ZIGGIE CZAROBSKI, PAUL GASTNER mad 
MIKE LIND as well as many others. 
Once again JOE ARCHIBALD did an cxcdlent 
publicity job seeing to it that TV and press eov 
crage was at an all-time high. 
While still on the subject of football the Ladies 
Auxiliary ran a well-attended dosed circuit tde­
cast of the Southern Cal game at McCormidc Place. 
—PAT MONTROY, Secretary 

^^^^ CLEVELAND 
It %vas "cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame" at the Hotel Statler-Hilton De c 3 as the Cleveland du b celebrated its 50th anniversary with a <Uiiner dance preceded by a champagne cocktail party. Chairmanned by PATRICK J. CANNON and THOMAS F. CORRIGAN 300 membeis and guests turned out to honor 18 of the 24 past presidents. Those present to receive the awards were: JOHN 
P. MURPHY; GEORGE KERVER; J. PATRICK CANNY; JOHN COLLINS; CORNELIUS RUF­FING; CLAYTON LeROUX; THOMAS BYRNE; JOHN J. REIDY; FRANCIS PAYNE; ROBERT STACK; JAMES P. COLLERAN; FRANCIS GAUL; T. EDWARD CAREY; LEO J. BURBY; 
J. E, SOTAK; RICHARD H. MILLER; ROB­ERT J. LALLV; and FRED NAEGELE. The men received desk-size scrolls of parchment, hand let­tered and painted, commemorating the date Our thanks and congratulations to the Cannons and Corrigans for a most succc:ssful dance. 
Ten outstanding area high school football staxs were honored Dec. 5 at the annual Knute Rockne Awards Dinner at the Sheraton Glevebnd Hotel wth guest-speakers coaches JOHN RAY and GEORGE SEFCIK. JIM RODGER5, chainaan, w ^ assisted by PAT CANNY, BOB LALLY, BOB DOWD and Club President FRED NAEGELE. The award winners were accompanied by their fathers and high school coaches. Members of the press were guests of the Club. This year's winners were probably the finest group ever to be chosen for the RotJcne awards. Afany thanks to the chair­man and his assistants for a fine job. 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Secretary 

• COLOMBIA ^^^^= 
Our Club was founded during JIM COONEVs visit to this country. Our first president is RAMON DE LA TORRE '57. Ramon is working with In­ternational Petroleum Ltd. in the industrial rda­tions dept. Our secretary ERNESTO GUHL NAN­NETTI '65 is worlung wth a consulting engineer­ing firm. Samel, as a design engineer in the highway dept. Our Club now has around 30 mem­bers. Most of them graduated rather recently but our senior member ERNEST E. ^fASSIMINE be­longs to the Class of '34. We are waiting for the new year in order to have our first Club meeting which u*ill be a picnic at Ramon's ranch. 
As the most recent N D Club we want to wish a happy and successful New Year to our older brodiezs. 
—ERNESTO GUHL, Secretaxy 
= DALLAS 5 

Dallas Alumni and guests were addressed by Dr. Daniel Callahan, associate editor of Commonwrei, on Nov. 30. The address was presented as a proto­type, hopefully to be duplicated once or twice yearly with authoritative spokesmen surveying vital issues. . 
Callahan's presence brought the focus of the local press to the event; the Catholic press covering even more extensively. The delK-ery of the address "Secularity: Hireat or Promise?!' coincided with the release of his most recent boo^ The SecuUr City Debate. 
The speaker's treatment of this widely debated topic was original, imaginative and erudite. The implications regarding Catholic identity in tiie "post-Christian" pluralist society, white not gain­ing unanimous acceptance from the audience, were, nevertheless, deeply provocative. The only disap­pointment of the evening was the relatively poor attendance of the Alumni. 
DaUas Alumni look forward to the March 1967 visit and address of Miss Barbara Ward, author and economist. A descendant of the pioneers of the 19th-century Catholic revival in England, she delivered •. the commencement address at Notre Dame this year and is faexsclf an honorary Alumnus. 
WnXIAM L. COOKE, Secntuy 
= DEARBORN 

Qdb activities centered around attending and 
viewing tbe 196fi National Football Champions. 
CHARLIE KTTZ arranged newing of the Purdue 
and Michigan State games vi^ color T V at the 
Fr. Kelly K of C HaO. 
GEORGE TOBIN who sold the most tickets and 
DICK KING who organized the ND-ARMY bus 
trip Wen congratulated for their efforts. Eighty 
membeis and non-membeis capped the colorful 
vrcckend by dining at Diamond Harbor Inn. 
Club membeis are in the midst of selling tidcets 
for the annual raffle. The raffle and the bus trip 
aie the major activities from which funds are ac­
comulated for contributions to the Univeisity. 
—BOB MISSEL, Secretary 
DECATUR, 111. ^^^ ^ 

PATRICK NOLAN oiganized the Club's Com­
nranion Breakfast held on Dec. 11. The 8:00 am 
itasi was celebrated by Father Hunter SJ at St. 
Patrick's Church. With an edifying deliwry he 
addressed the 34 stalwarts conasting hugely of 
iiiture Notre Damen like METERSs, McNA-
ItARAs, MORANs and UHLs at the breakfast 
at the Ambassador Motor Inn. 
—STEPHEN GRALIKER, Secretary 
= DELAWARE '• 

The Ddaware Club held its fall general mem­bership meeting on Nov. 22. The gathering took pbce at Buckley's Tavern in Greem-ille. Flans were discussed concerning Christmas activities, stu­dent counselling and the interviewing of prospec­tive students from the Delaware area high schools. The 1967 Club agenda was open for general dis­cusnon. Some tt^ics discussed were the dinner dance, cocktail party and UN D Night. The next meeting was tentatively scheduled for Jan. 20 at the UnivcRnty and Whist Club in Wilmington. 
—PAUL F. LOVELL, Secretary 
DETROIT 

The annual Communion Breakfast was held on 
Dec 4 with M^r. Walter J. Schoenherr celebrat­
ing the 9:00 am Mass at Blessed Sacrament Cathe­
dral. Breakfast for the Alumni and their families 
vras held at the Fark-Shclton Hotel with Rev. Ray­
mond N. Ellis as guest speaker. 
In neu of the annual Christmas Dinner Dance the Club held a New Year's Eve party at the London House East. The evening featured a cock­tail party, dinner, dancing, and champagne and favors at midnight. JACK MURRAY was chairman for the event. 
EASTERN INDIANA ^^ ^ 

Members of the Eastern Indiana Club and their Amines held a Communion Breakfast at the John XXi n Center, a retreat house at Hartford City, Ind. on De c 4. Mass was said by Father Keith Hosey, director of the center. He also did us the honor of giving a little Notre Dame sermon at the breakfast following. Mrs. Mary Cronin, %vidow of our beloved BILL CRONIN and farmer Club president, was largely responsible for arranging the breakfast. 
Attending were: Mr. and Mis. TOM AD.AMS, Mr. and Mis. THOMAS CANNON, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. CRAIG SR., ED DDCON, LEON DDCON, Mr. and Mis. JAMES HALLIG.AN and family, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HYNES, Mis. Anna Hynes, Mr. and Mis. W. S. MacDONALD, Mr. and MIS. ROBERT PRESTON, Mr. and Mrs. MARIO PIERONI and famHy, Mr. and Mis. 
V. A. MURRAY, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM ZINS, Mr. and Mis. VERGIL W. FERRATT and Mrs. WILLIAM CRONIN. 
The retreat house %vas a gift to the Diocese from ROBERT CRONIN who is president of the Frank­lin Finance Co. The Club breakfast %\'as one of the first meetings in the new facility which will be used for retreats and meetings. 
—JOHN C. HYNES. Secretary —RICHARD A. GREENE 
ERIE = 

At the time of this writing the Notre Dame fans of Erie were anxiously awaiting to hear Defennve Coach JOHN RAY of the Fighting Irish staff. Coach Ray, linebacker Jim Lynch and quarterback Terry Hanratty were expected in Erie on De c 5 for tiie Orphans* Welfare Dinner, 
Here in Pennsylvania, ND did quite well on the political scene as our new lieutenant governor is RAY BRODERICK. Ray paid Erie a visit during his campaign tour and smne members of the N D Qub were lucky enou^ to have a short chat with him at breakfast at the Holiday Inn. Among those who greeted Ray were: JOSEPH BARBER, ROB­ERT BARBER, THOMAS BATES, LEO BRUG­
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

JIM COONEY AND THE HERNANDEZES OF SAN JUAN Puerto Rican hospitality for a traveling secretary. 
ND students reside in this largest Central American republic. Lakeside establishments do a yeoman business-in this sultry climate. A day of relaxation with six cur­
FROM 

rent students on Lake Nicar^ua highlighted the stay. 
LATIN Part II The Lake, dotted with a thousand islands and ringed 
AMERICA by slumbering volcanoes, is the largest in Central Amer­
ica. Our group was entertained by the antics of tarpons 
cavorting among the islands, but natatory ambitions 
were squelched by the presence of a few ill-disposed 
sharks. The country club was the location of our meet­
Last issue, your wandering assistant minstrel des­ing as the Notre Dame Club of Nicaragua was formed. cribed the first leg of a Latin American Alumni Club Noel Pallais DeBayle '49, Adolfo Calero '53 and Ivan organization tour through Peru, Ecuador, Colombia Alvarez '58 were elected president secretary and trea> and Mexico. The interests of time, space and other surer respectively. Nearly 30 Alumni attended. San 
dimensions prohibited logging the whole story. Here's Salvador's irrepressible Ernesto Sol *67 drove the the original, uncut version of the second half... . mountainous route to attend the session—and promptly Our Man in Managua. "Managua, Nicaragua is a won­returned home to form the Notre Dame Club of EL derful place." Remember that? After a roller-coaster Salvador with Roberto Poma '65 and Sergio Catani '64 flight from Mexico City through Guatemala, San elected as president and secretary. 
Salvador and Tegucigalpa, our Viscount settled between P.S. from Panama. The Notre Dame Club of Panama Nicaragua's two giant lakes at the sweltering outskirts has been one of the most active Alumni groups out­of Manama. Over 40 Alumni and a large number of side the U.S. Club President Lorenzo Romagosa '45 
GER, LEO BRUGGER JR., WILLIAM GRANT, 
JOHN McCORMICK JR., RICHARD McCOR-
MICK, TIM McCORMICK, MIKE McCOR­
MICK and ANTHONY ZAMBROSKL 
—LEO BRUGGER JR., Secretary 
FAIRHEU) COUNTY CONNECTICUT 

The Fairfield County Club had a successful tnp to the Navy game in Philadelphia on Oct. 29. About 50 Alumni and friends made the trip and Vtc all enjoyed it thoroughly. 
The Communton Breakfast was held on Dec 4 in the Chapel of Sacred Heart Col. in Bridgeport. KENNETH Af. WOODWARD, religious editor of Newsweek, was guest speaker at the 11:00 am breakfast at the Stratford Motor Inn. 
—ROY A. JANN, Secretary 

^^^^ FUNT, MICH. ^^^^ 
The Club held its annual Communion Break­fast Dec 18 at the St. Joseph Hospital Chapel. Following the 9:30 am Mass Alumni and families gathered at the Continental House for breakfast. Rev. Walter Mclncmcy CSC was guest speaker. FRED MANSOUR was chairman of the event and VIC GEORGE JR., DON MacDONALD and BILL MIN.ARDO assisted in the planning of events which included a visit from St. Nick. 
—WILLIAM MINARDO, Scc-Treas. 
INDIANAPOUS 

On Oct. 29 the Club held its annual Dinner 
Dance under the diairmanship of JOHN R. 
WELCH. Well over 200 persons enjoyed the food 
and music at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. A 
lafflc for the Scholaiship Fund was the highlight 
of the evening. Chairman BILL MOONEY and 
his ticket sellers did an excellent job in arrangins 
the raffle and obtaining the prizes, a color TV» 
a Polaroid camera and a transistor radio. 
The second annual Testimonial Dinner for Am 
Parscghian and his staff and the team was held 
at the Indianapolb Club OS Dec 7. The stag 
affair was wcU-attendcd. 
Dec 4 found the Club gathered at Sts. Peter and Paul Cathedral for the Communion Breakfast. Father KENNY SWEENEY, past president of the Catholic Broadcasters Assn. and aicfcifibcesaa director of radio and TV, was guest speaker at the breakfast in the Cathetal HS cafeteria. 
—TOM BOWERS, Secretary 

^^^^ JERSEY SHORE ^^^^ 
Co-chairmen DICK CORDASCO and DICK TIERNEY hosted a very successful mb[erH»cktaiI party on Oct. 16 at the Crystal Brook Inn in Eatontown. Over 60 Alumni, their wives and friends spent an enjoyable Sunday afternoon together. 
The Club's fiftli annual Communion Brcakfut 
was celebrated «» Oee. 11 with ilam at As chapel of the new St. Dorothea's Church at 
11.30 am. Breakfast followed at the CNd Orchard Country Club in Eatontown. Rev. PAUL KANE,. Club chaplain, celebrated the Mass and the Hon. ROBERT A. MATTHEWS, justice of the Superior Court, was the featured speaker at the breakfast. BOB GIUNCO was the hard-working committee 
«''»™»n­  —CHARLES KELLER, Secretaiy  
^^  ^  KANSAS CITY, MO.  
=  =  AND KANSAS  

Tins is a spedal December for Irishmen m oar area. AH the loyal fans were rewarded widi two Champions. Everyone is very proad and ap­preciative of the efforts of Aia and his Fightiag Irish, particularly home-grown linebacker Dave Alartin. And, of coarse, oar own Kansas City Chiefs are coached by former ND assistant Hank Stram and ably assisted by BILL WALSH who got his share of tackles for the Irish in days gone by. How sweet it is. 
The Anuliary held its rhrrstmat Brandt on Dec 13 at the home of Mr. and Mrs. COOK JORDAN. Dec 11 was the date of the Com­munion Breakfast at Avila CoL Msgr. Henry Gardner, superintendent of parochial scfaoob in Kansas City, addressed the groiqi on "The Fotme of Catholic Education." 
—THOMAS FLEMINC^ Secrebty 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
has been at tlie helm soap. Not even a Brownie. Romagosa through a nimble several yeai-s. Larry series of negotiations with airport infomiation, a Braniff is a man of many manager and the local FBI induced Airport Police 
pasts including race horses, fish meal 
Part II 

and coffee plants. Two meetings were held during this visit: one for Alumni and 
the interested public where tlie Highlights and slides were shown, and the other, a Club business meeting. One of Notre Dame's most distinguished Alumni, Bishop Mark McGrath, unfortunately was not able to attend although his nephews Bob and John, botli current stu­dents, made tlie scene. The Club sponsors a scholar­ship each year to tlie Catholic University, Santa Maria La Antigua, of which Romagosa is a tiiistee. Tony Dominguez Jr. '53, Club secretary', and Fred Humbert Jr. '55, treasurer, were on hand for bodi meetings and extended much hospitalit)'. A day at die races cul­minated die Panama sojourn on a disappointing key. Lany Romagosa's horse. Sin Fuego, ran with less than gusto. Ti-anslated, Siri Fucgo means "without fire." He was. Would you believe fifth in a field of five. Caracas Carte Blanche. It was a narrow escape from Panama. Immigi-ation problems again. Although my passport contained a personal photo, additional pix are required on tourist cards for Caracas. Othenwse —no go. The airline was good enough to inform me of this 30 minutes before takeoff on a Sunday night Larry Romagosa and I scoured die premises for a photographer or any old body with a Polaroid. No 
KENTUCKY '• 

Fall and winter brought much activity to our 
Club. A smoker was held to ^x-atch tlie first of 
many Irish victories during tlie Purdue game. In 
November, the Club sponsored a trip to Columbus, 
Ind. to view the iUchigan State game. Over 
260 Alumni and friends made the journey for 
the game with lOG staying for dinner at the 
Holiday Inn. Thanks to all for a successful 
event. 
One week later DEEK DeaAMILLTS and JIM 
REMMERS sponsored an Alumni-siudcnt touch 
football game prior to the Southern Cal. game. 
BILL KAREM and STEVE RICHERT were 
remarkable in tlxcir ofHciating. The Alumni 
needed youl 
On Dec 8 BOB WILLENBRINK chairmaned 

the Communion Dinner. An excellent talk by 
Rev. Casper and a large turnout made a successful 
evening. 
Chairman BILL SHERMAN and JACK 

RACQUE and RUSSELL RACQUE handled the 
U of K-ND basketball ticket sales. AVhat a job 
they did to satisfy all the screaming fans. Many 
others have aided tlie Club this year whose names 
\vc haven't room to mention. Thanks to all. 
—GERRY BOLAND, Secretary 
UNSING, MICH. 

The Club held a pre-game rally the night before the Micliigan State game and the affair was a really big success drawing over 500 people. Special thanks go to BOB MOO.NEY, DICK ALFES, BOB DERENGOSKI, MIKE BYRNE, DAVE O'LEARY, FRANK SIERAWSKI, BILL DOT­TERWEICH, BILL KANE, ER.\IE HOUGHTON, STAN FEDEWA, PETE H.-\SBROOK and JOH N RAU all members of the working committees which made the affair such a fine one. 
The annual Communion Breakfast wins held at the St. Vincent Home on Dec 18. The Alumni and their families attended 10:00 am Mass with breakfast immediately following. 
—JOHN POWERS, President 

^^^ ^ LOS ANGELES 
On De c 22 the Club arranged to meet the NT> Basketball team who arrived to play UCLA. Also arranged for were a block of tickets for the game 
to duplicate my passport photo with their mug shot machine (Bachrach endorsement withheld) and boarded tlie flight as the engines whined. Chuck Urruela '44 and wife Jean were on hand at the Caracas airport for the post-midnight arrival. Chuck is executive vice-president of "Inversiones Sideiairgicas." Jimmy (M.J.) Gorman '39, vice-president for Grant Adver­tising in Caracas, and wife Hannah were most helpful in getting the troups" togedier for our ND meeting. 
J^fCMCSt of the recently organized Latin American Notre Dame Clubs is the El Salvador Club most of 
whose members live in San Salvador. 
a\-ailable to the Alumni from JACK STEWART. 
Following the game a reception for Coach 
JOHNNY DEE and tbc team A\*as held in the 
Center Club. 
In November over 130 fans gathered at St. 
Therese's Parish to watch the ND-Michigan Stale 
game. BEN and BUD SALVATY and BRIAN 
O'NEILL handled all tlic arrangements. The 
Southern Cal weekend brought a full schedule of 
activities. Club members were invited to the 
Pasadena Quarterbacks' Luncheon to hear ED 
"ilOOSE " KRAUSE address the group on Nov. 
25. That evening a pre-game rally was held for Alumni and guests at the Biltmore Hotel. Enter­tainment was provided by a number of movie and T V entertainers. Following the game a victory party was held at the Ambassador Hotel for all Irish fans in the area. On Nov. 27 Alumni at­tended Mass with the coaches and team and celebrated witli a breakfast at the Disneyland Hotel at which Coach Parseghian presented the most-v'aluablc-playcr-of-the-game award. 
—THONfAS POWERS, President 
MAINE = 
The Notre Dame Club of Afaine is somewhat limited in activities in the wintertime. However, we did have a listening-in party for a group of those living in the Lewiston area for llic Afichigan Slate-ND game. At that time, and on subsequent occasions, several of us have talked about the com­ing visit of tlie N D Marching Band which is scheduled to play at the Lewiston High School auditorium on the Saturday after Easter, Apr. 1. ^Ve arc very pleased that we are one of the few Alumni clubs around the nation to sponsor the band and Iiave found it a very profitable activity. 
We are also very pleased to say that even tliough the Notre Dame Freshman Manual does not list the State of Maine Alumni Club as a scholarship group, that v%e liave provided almost §6,000 in scholarship money in the last ID years to needy bo>*5. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secretary 
MANSFIELD, OHIO ^^ ^ 
Tlic Club sponsored a reception on Nov. 27 for the Notre Dame Glee Club and their director Daniel Pcdtke following their concert at St. 

Peter^s auditorium. The concert was excellent and 
enjoyed by all. 
The annual football trip v^'as exceptionally fine and a great deal of credit should go to JERRY COLEALVN and C.J. KOZAK for a fine organ­izational job. 
Dec 11 marked tlie observance of our Com­munion Sunday for members and their families. It was held at tlic Sacred Heart Seminar^-. 
A cocktail party and holiday dance v\*as the event of Dec. 30. Co-chairmen T. McHALE and 
F.S. COLEM/VN and their committee of R. WALTER and J. O'DO.NNELL left nothing undone to assure the success of the event. Notre Dame, **Numbcr One" was the theme vrith the traditional colors, blue and gold, adapted to tlic Christmas Season. 
—FR.\NCIS COLEMAN, Secretary 
= MICHIGAN CITY, IND. 

At the November meeting^ of the local Club, plans were announced for the observance of Com­munion Sunday on Dec. 11 at tlic recently dedicated Queen of All Saints Church. President ROBERT E. MILLER appointed BILL PRIEBE as chairman for the event. His assistants were DOMINIC MOFFO and STEVE JA.XUS. After attending tlic 8:00 am ^fass the members enjoyed a leisurely breakfast at the Holiday Inn. The nominations of officers for the new year were made at the gathering by FRANNIE FEDDER chairman of the election committee. 
The new officers will be installed at the annual Grasshopper Frolic scheduled for tlie latter part of January. Chairman for this event is EMMETT MILLER and he \%ill have the assistance of MIKE CAULEY and DON WEN'TL.^ND. 
With the close of a successful 1966 football season, another milestone vvas reached by FRANNIE FEDDER. Talk about football cn­tliusiasm must include him because Frannic has logged 40 years of perfect attendance at home foot­ball games of the "Fighting Irish." Local Club members wonder if this is a record of some sort. 
Club members looking ahead to 1967 voiced a unanimous vote for resumption of tli2 Irish Greens Party, probably for July vrith outgoing President BOB MILLER chairman for tlie outing. 
—DON WENTLAND, Sccrctarj-
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

p^i'^y " I r 
The Second Mialt of Jim Cooney's ten thou­sand mile excursion through Latin America included stojjs in Caracas, Managua, San Juan and Panama City. On hand to greet the University's assistant alumni secretary in their respective major cities were members of the Notre Dame clubs of Venezuela (top), Managua (second from top), Puerto Rico (above) and Panama (below). 
Although they had just themselves returned from the States, the Urruelas graciously opened their home for the gathering. Nestled in the hills above Caracas and reflecting the Urruelas' charm and graciousness, their quinta was hard to leave. But the meeting finally broke up after Jimmy Gorman accepted the presidency of the new Notre Dame Club of Venezuela. Puerto Rican Potpoum. As our flight zeroed in on the diminutive island from 30,000 feet up anticipation rose— last stop on a delightful but lengthy tour. The big jet began its descent and the island magnified until shortly before touchdown the "tiny" Caribbean jewel assumed its normal proportion of 3,300 square miles of land mass. Passing through immigration after 9,000 miles and five weeks away from home the pulse quickened after a glance at a bronzed eagle and subscript: "Welcome to the United States"! One of the largest Club meetings of the tour was attended by over 40 Alumni and their stunning wives (one of Puerto Rico's greatest assets). Julio Vizcarrondo '56 accepted ap­pointment as acting president and appointed a nomin­ations committee. One distinguished Alumnus missing from the gathering was Don Pepe Hernandez Usera '01. Bob Forbes '35, my congenial island host, and I dropped by Don Pepe's gracious villa-like home along the coast the next day. "Mr. Cooney," said Don Pepe, "I spent the happiest four years of my life on the campus of Our Lady." After a quick glance at his vivacious wife he corrected himself however: "Excuse me, I made an error. This day my wife and I are celebrating our 57th wedding anniversary. Those were the 57 happiest years of my life. The years at Notre Dame were second happiest!" Don Pepe was—and is—a diplomat. 
Checking out of Puerto Rico at the San Juan air­port, officials stamped our luggage "Free of disease-producing plants and vegetables." Fortunately, they had overlooked my laundry. Our DC 8 bound for Miami and Chicago skirted thunderheads above the emerald Keys and swomg northward. Behind lay some memorable moments and a contingent of hundreds of hospitable and committed Notre Dame men in eight Latin American countries. They made the trip worth­while. 
The new Clubs at this \vriting have already estab­lished some significant programs and activities: Mexico held a Christmas party welcoming present students home for the holidays; Puerto Rico has set up a committee to interview prospective students; Colombia now boasts a Club office and telephone listing and plans a January picnic; and Ecuador has just forwarded a 29 volume collection of Ecuadorian history, literature and poetry to the Notre Dame Library. 
Last leg on the journey was the familiar hop from Chicago over the Lake to the "Bend." After five weeks of diverse climates and altitudes the reality of home was immediate. Our North Central hedge-hopper wheeled over the Golden Dome, plunged through a midwest haze and settled into the tropical heat of a South Bend summer. 
bff dfatnes Mt. Coonei§ 
Assistant Alumni Secretary 
= OHIO VALLEY = 

The Ohio Valley ND Club sponsored a TV 
Smoker at the Fiesta Room of the Carroll Club, 
Wheeling, W. Va. on Nov. 19 to iratch the ND-
Michigan State game. About 65 ND fans attended 
including the following Alumni: ALVIN SAVI­
NELL '52; BOB O'NEIL '53; JIM HARANZO 
'52; BILL HOGAN '51; BOB SINCAVICH '50; 
JOHN ROBINSON '47; BARRETT BELTZ '33; 
and BILL MTTSCH '33. A door prize consisting 
of FRANCIS WALLACE'S '23 new book ND from 
ROCKNE to PARSEGHIAN w'as won by Cece 
Naegele. 
The Club Communion Sunday this year was on 
Dec It at Mt. Carmel Monastery. 
—BILL MTTSCH, Sec-Treas. 
PAKISTAN 

Father EDWARD HESTON CSC, press officer for the English language press during the last three sessions of Vatican Council II, arrived in Dacca from Rome on Nov. 11. Since his arrival he has been busy—and will be for a month— giving a series of conferences to local priests, religious and the laity on tlic results and signifi­cance of the Council. He reports that when he left Rome VINCE McALOON was as busy, as affable and as handsome as ever. 
—Rev. FRANK J. BURTON CSC, President 
PEORIA, ILL. 

As of this writing plans arc rapidly being com­
pleted by Co-chairmen BILL CLARK '47 and 
MIKE RITSCHEL *62 along with their commit­
teemen: GENE SLEVIN M9, DENNIS POWERS 
'56, AUKE DENTING '52. JIM McCOMB '54. 
LOU ZUMBAHLEN '49, BOB MANNING '60, 
TOM KELLY '56 and BILL STOTZER '56 for 
the arrival of the ND Glee Club who were sched­
uled to appear in concert on Dec. 8 at Bergan 
HS. Many thanks go to PETE VONACHEN '47 
for his generous help in providing food and 
lodging for the Glee Club. 
Wc arc also looking forward to our annual Com­
munion Sunday Breakfast in commemoration of 
the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Father 
William Bassett, \nce-diancclIor of the Peoria 
Diocese, wll celebrate the Mass. Immediately 
following there will be a pancake and sausage 
breakfast. Co-chairmen for the event are BILL 
STOTZER '56 and DENNIS POWERS '56. 
—inCHAEL C. RITSCHEL, Secretary 
=PHILADELPHIA = 

A luncheon to honor Fcnns>i\'ania lieutenant 
governor-elect RAY BRODERICK was held on 
Dec. 17 at Wniiamson's. BARTON B. JOHNSON 
was chairman of the lunclicon which featured 
WILLIAM A. MEEHAN as loasimastcr. He is the 
newly appointed Pennsylvania Turnpike commis­
sioner. 
The annual Communion Breakfast \%'as held 

on De c 11 at the Catlicdral Chapel with Mass 
at 9:00 am. Main speaker for the breakfast at the 
Sheraton Hotel ^\'as Rev. Bernard Shanlcy, former 
University faculty member and now professor at 
Immacuhita Col. JOHN DEMPSY and CLIFFORD 
FRODEHL were co-chairmen of the event. 
PinSBURGH ^ 

The Club has scheduled its monthly luncheoa dates for the coming year on Jan. 3, Feb. 6, &far. 6, Apr. 3 and May I. Beginning mth the Dec 5 meeting and continuing every second month a guest speaker will be on hand to talk on a subject of current interest. In December Father Gerard, retreat master of St. Paul's Monastery, addressed the Club members in preparation for the annual retreat held at the Monastery on Jan. 6, 7 and 8. JOE TOTTEN handled arrangements for the weekend. 
The Club is also currently engaged In updating the membership directory. Any additions or changes can be made by contacting the Club office: 286* Main St., Pittsburgh 15201. 
=ROCHESTER, N.Y.= 

JACK HEDGES lined up two baby tenders to shepherd his flock while he ran off to Phil­adelphia wt h the winnings of the fall raffle. Watching the Irish "bury" Navy made it better than a busman's holiday. 
The near zero weather didn't cool the fervor of the 40 Club families who attended the Com­munion Breakfast De c 4 at McQuald High. DICK KLEE's arrangements attracted the finest turnout in yean. 
Club members received engraved invitations to enjoy a French Buffet before the annual ChrBtmas Dance De c 30 at Oak HiU Country Club. 
—DAVE MILLER, Secretary 
= ROME s 
The Notre Dame Hospitality Center holds open house daily from noon to nine. Drop in at Largo Biancaccio 82 near the rail terminal at St. Maiy Major Basilica. Ring us at 730.002. 
Our N D resident this year is SYLVESTER THEISEN '49 on sabbatical from St. John's U. in Minnesota. And to boot we have a Tiappilt Monk, NDer Bro. PATRICK HART '66. 
Our fall gleanings on visitors include: parents of BARRY BREEN '69; BILL KEARNEY '28 and wife; ORVILLE MURCH '28; HUGH CAHALAN '29; BOB HALLEIN '43 aai wife; parents of LARRY HANRAHAN '60; FRANK WIDGER '34 and wife; Rev. JAMES RIZER '30; JIM WELCH '50 and wife; JOHN LINEHAN '61; J. BELANGER '65; parents of JIM '46 and BILL McSHANE '51; DICK NORTON '55; DICK CROWLEY JR. '56; TIM BURNS '60 and wife; REX ELLIS '40; JOE DILUCIANO '56 and wife; and PETE SAYOUR '60 and wife. 
HELPFUL HINT: All comers to Rome are concerned about attending a papal audience. Tbe facts are that papal audiences are held once M week on Wednesday forenoon. Write to: Aniep* ican Audience Office, North American College, Via Dell' Umilta 30, Rome. Give the exact dates in Rome, hotel, number in party. If you anive with no arrangements, phone audience office at 
670.658 or caU us 730.002. —VINCE McALOON, Secietaiy 
.ST. JOSEPH VALLEY. INDIANA 
The North Dining Hall on the campus was the scene of the 47ih Annual Testimonial Football Banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame du b of St^ Joseph Valley, Dec. 8. JEROME B. KEARNS '61 was chairman of this year's banquet honoring the National Champions of 1966. TOM HAMMER '57 was ticket chairman for the 1300-pIus capadty crowd. Club president ED ^(cCARTHY '53 introduced Wally Phillips, Chicago broadcaster who acted as toastmaster. ROGER VALDISERRI, sports publicity director for the Univer^ty, in­troduced Jerry Liska of Associated Press who presented the AP Championship Trophy and Tom Hamilton of WNDU presented the UP! Trophy to Coach Parseghlan and 1966 Capt. Jim Lynch. 
ED MCCARTHY, on behalf of the Club and friends of ND in the St. Joseph Valley, presented a plaque to Capt. Lynch with the inscription reading ''National Champs 1966." A similar plaque was distributed to each member of the 1966 Championship team, coaching staff and others who contributed to the success of this year's team. 
Speakers seated at the head table were: Warren Brown, veteran sportswrlter for the Chicago's Amer­ican, Coach Parseghlan, EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE, Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE CSC and the main speaker for the evening, Ben Martin, football coach of the U.S. Air Force Academy. LEO BARNHORST, president of the N D Na­tional Monogram Club, named Nick Eddy recipient of the most valuable player award. 
— a GEORGE SCHILLING JR., Secxctaxy 
ST. LOUIS ^ 
The St. Louis Club held Its annual Communion Breakfast at the Church of St. Charles Borromeo on Nov. 27. The Mass and breakfast w*re well-attended and everyone enjoyed the informative and timely talk by our guest speaker Rev. McNIckolas who is the secretary of the Catholic Charities In St. Louis and chaplain of the St. Louis Juvenile Court. CHARLES WITTENBERG and TONY RIBAUDO were in charge of arrange­ments. This year they emphasized the family spirit by including children at the breakfast la addition to Alumni and friends. 
—JOE DWYER, Sec-Txeas. 
^ SPOKANE, WASH. 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane, their families and friends, observed Conununioa Sunday on Dec. 4 with a record-breaking attend­ance. After the 8:30 Mass at Our Lady of Louides Cathedral, breakfast was enjoyed at the Ridpath Hotel where the guest speaker was Rev. Daniel 
C. Weber SJ, rector of Gonzaga IVep. Father Weber spoke most interestingly on the Notre Dame survey of Catholic education. Tbe aSbar «ns interestingly ma^ed by the attendance of Elise 

Rotchford, daughter of BOB ROTCHFORD '49, 
who made her First Communion at the Club's 
Mass and of Joey St. John, son of DICK ST. 
JOHN '53, who was celebrating his seventh 
birthday. Election of tbe following officers oc­
curred during the event: Prcs. Dr. DEE J. 
McGONIGLE '52; WILLIAM J. SPIELER '53; 
and Sec-Treas. JOE WALSH '14. 
The following members with their wives and 

friends attended: ED BETHKE '28; JOHN 
HESKETT '63; FRANK HERRON '35; Dr. 
CURRAN HIGGINS '49; TOM LALLY '06; 
Dr. BOB MAHER '35; Dr. DEE J. McGONIGLE 
'52; GARY MYERS '59; LARRY MOXTAG '53; 
JOHN O'NEIL '29; BOB ROTCHFORD '49; 
HAROLD SHEERAN '50; DICK ST. JOHN '53; 
VINCE SLATT '43; BILL SPIELER '53; and 
JOE WALSH '14. 
Flans are being made for the annual Pot-Luck 

Supper on Feb. 1 at which the 1966 Football 
Highlights film will be shown. 
—JOE W.iVLSH, Scc-Trcas. 
i TOLEDO •' 

The Club held Its annual Dinner Dance on Dec. 23 at the Inverness Club. Plans this year called for making a full evening of the affair and a pre­dancc dinner was also on the schedule. General coKJiairmen for the festivities were Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HACKETT JR. and Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HETRYKOWSKI. 
TRI-CITIES, IOWA 

The annual Communion Breakfast was held De c 4 at the parish of our chapbin Msgr. FRANCIS HARRISON. Our speaker wtis STEVE DRAGOS who is executive director of tlie Valley Development Foundation. Steve spoke on *^Re­bulldlng Our Sodety and Environment for Future Generations." 
DICK FRIEJE was chosen to head the com­mittee for our UN D Night festivities in the 
—FRANK LINEHAN, Secretary 
= UTAH ^ 

At a dinner meeting held De c 1 at the New-house Hotel the Utah Club held elections of new officers. Chosen to serve in 1967 were: WILLLAM 
G. ALLEN, prcs.; Dr. JOHN D. SCHIRACK, VP; WILLIAM HAWKESWORTH, sec; WIL­LIAM R. POGUE, treas. Forty Alumni and their wives attended the meeting to participate in the elections and to celebrate ND's successful football season. 
—LEN DiGUCOMO 
'• VIRGINIA 

Our president BERNIE NIERLE, with the help of treasurer CHARLIE SCHLIECKERT and past president and nominee for national director of the N D Alumni, CHARLIE LAFRATTA, organized 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 

and executed the most successful event that our local Club has ever undertaken. When it was confirmed that Richmond would be blacked out for the ND-MSU game, these men moved the whole operation to Fredericksburg where it was possible to ^vatch the game in color. The first 200 people occupied the Robert E. Lee Room of the Holiflay Inn and the balance were shifted to private rooms. The whole inn was occupied and half time seemed no different from that at the stadium. What a great job these fellowrs did. 
During 1966 the Club officers issued a monthly newsletter which helped unify the Aliunni and friends of ND in the area. 
—GORDON SUTLIFF, Secretary 
^ ^ WASHINGTON, D.C ^ ^ 
On Oct. 29 the Club took its bi-annual pilgrimage to Philadelphia for the ND-Navy game. We had a 13-car train and 843 people made the trip. To list those who made the trip >%t]iuld be nearly impossible but thanks go to FRANK MCCARTHY and RAY RAEDY for arranging the trip and to JOHN KOONS and JACK McGRATH for dbtributing the tickets. 
On Nov. 18 the Club held a combination bowl­ing party and pep rally. About 80 people attended during the course of the evening. JIM KRAUSER arranged this party. One of the highlights was a tape of the ND pep rally held the previous night in South Bend. On Nov. 19 about 25 Club members and many of their friends gathered at a local K of C hall to watch the ND-MSU game in color. JOHN DALY was the chairman of this event. Now that the team is finished with their season we do want to thank and congratulate Ara for a great year. 
The Father-Son Communion Breakfast was held on Dec 11 in the chapel at Holy Cross Col. —RAYMOND RAEDY, Treasurer 
^ ^ WESTERN WASHINGTON ^ ^ 
The Club held its Communion Breakfast on Dec. 8 with Mass at 7:30 pm at Sacred Heart Church. At the brunch following, our chaplain Msgr. DUFFY was speaker for the evening and delivered a talk on the future of Catholic educa­tion. Tim Mulheim was chairman. 
The Auxiliary is currently making plans for the St. Patrick's Day Dance. 
WICHITA •' 

The Most Rev. Mark K. Carroll, bishop of Wichita, delivered the sermon at the Club's Com­munion Sunday Mass on Dec. 11 in St. Mary's Cathedral. Speaking on the future of Catholic education, the bishop's talk was designed to high­light the relationship between religion and citi2en­ship as dramatized by the Council of Baltimore's designation of the Immaculate Conception as patroness of the US. Following Mass the Club members and their families gathered in the Pan­cake House to celebrate the football championship. 
CImh ActiviiimS late in 1966 ranged from 
Communion breakfasts to the election of club officers to the inauguration of a club lecture series. The last was the work of the Dallas Club which arranged for Daniel Callahan, distinguished Catholic author and layman, to address the Club in late November on "Secularity: Threat or Promise?" Shown (above left) with Dr. Callahan are Club Sec. Larry Cooke (left) and Club Pres. John Rogers (center). In Ft. Wayne, Ind. Alumni held their annual Communion Sunday obser­vance, Dec. 18, at which Msgr. Wm. Lester (above), superintendent of schools in the Ft. Wayne-South Bend Diocese, discussed the growth and development of Catholic education. Election of Club officers was the order of business recently for other Clubs. The ND Club of Utah's new officers are Wm. R. Pogue, treas.; Wm. C. Allen Jr., pres.; John D. Schirack MD, VP; and Wm. Hawkesworth, sec. (not pictured). 
^j 
,TT^«^;^ 
B &A 
A 
iv 
*a 
:3S^: \t 
ms^ii 
iPV 
sss-: 
^ 

Photouny 
The most famous building on campus, the most used and the most familiar to all Notre Dame men. It is a building of many names — Alain Building, Brownson Hall, Administration Building, the Dome. The subject of constant rumors about its future, the Main Building's strength lies in its past. It has housed the entire college, dormitories, dining hall, classrooms and chapel. Its stairs are ^\'orn thin by the daily tread of students on their wa)^ to class in its ancient rooms \vith frescoed walls and arched windows. A blend of the old and new, its great wings shelter the complex of offices that administer the modern multiversity. Campus visitors stand with craned necks beneath the Dome and wonder at muralcd walls of Columbus in America. Epitome of tradition, its Dome has been both landmark and challenge to students \vith a vcn to scale the heisfhts. The first buildin? one sees as he approaches the campus, it is the last the Notre Dame man leaves as an undergraduate. 
photos hif Hiehard Stevens 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 19(57 FEBRUARY 

A
nd now, the Bishop put his foot down reso­lutely on the idea of a college. By this time it was September. The crops were har\'ested, but they were nothing to boast of. The money was nearly exhausted. They had planned so much on the college. How could Father Sorin return to St. Peter's and blast all their hopes? 
"Mind you," said the Bishop, "I have nothing against your idea of a college, but not here!" 
AVith a sad heart. Father Sorin rode home. For another month he prayed for some way out of his difficulties. Then the Brothers urged him to see the Bishop again. Perhaps he had a change of heart. The Bishop listened to him patiently, but said no. Father Sorin seemed so depressed that the Bishop, unknowingly, said something that changed forever the course of events. \Vhat he said was: "In the northern part of the state, there is a piece of land near South Bend. I could let you have that. You could tr)' a college there, per­haps; but I caution you, you will have a more difficult time there than here!" Some intuition warned Father Sorin that he should not seem too enthusiastic. He thanked the Bishop for his offer, and asked for time to consider the matter. 
Father Sorin rode swiftly back to St. Peter's. In his mind, he pictured two columns — one, list­ing the disadvantages of leaving the foundation 
by ARTHUR J. PIOPE^ CSC 
Excerpts from Notre Dame—100 Years. 

already begun, the other, the benefits that might accrue if they would move north. They were so nearly equal that he could come to no decision. But he called a council and laid before his com­panions the offer of the Bishop. 
"True," he said, "if we leave here, we leave behind us the good will of these people among whom we have labored for a year. 'We leave this land and these buildings upon which we have ex­pended so much labor and money. But on the other hand, this land can never belong to us; it is deeded in perpetuity to whoe\-er shall be the parish priest of St. Peter's. ^Vhat we want is some property that will be our ver)' own. Then, too, you all know that here where we are so close to the Bishop, we have not gotten along so \vell. The north is wilder and more sparsely settled. But there we are more liable to be our own masters. Think it over. Pray for light that we may do God's will!" 
So for some days Father Sorin and the Brothers thought over the proposal. They consulted with one another. They knelt before the little altar. At the end of four or five days, all of them felt that it would be better to move north. Yes, they would go north, to the lakes near South Bend. There they would build a home. Could any of them have dreamed that in one hundred and twenty-five years there rnTTTj^ should arise, from their decision, _[_ t l P j 
UNIVERSITY OF OUR LADY 
Within two 1/ears, a 

On No­vember, 16,1842, 
university 

Fatlier Sorin and seven Brothers left St. Peter's. Early that morning they had put together what they would need for the journey, loaded the ox­
^Irawn cart, and set out in the teeth of wind and snow. The weather was so bitterly cold they made only five miles that day. 
Behind him at St Peter's, Father Sorin had left the larger part of his community. The Bishop had insisted that the Novitiate must, for the time at least, remain at St. Peter's. Father Chartier, a diocesan priest who had recently joined the community, was to stay with the novices and look after them. Brother Vincent also remained behind. 
Of the seven Brothers who ac­companied Father Sorin, only two were of the original colony from France, Brothers Marie (formerly known as Brother Francis Xavier), and Gatian. The others were Brothers Patrick, William, Basil, Peter, and Francis. These latter had joined the community since its arrival at' St. Peter's. They were all young and robust. Four of them had come from Ireland: Brothers Peter and Patrick, both farmers; Brodier Basil, a cooper; and Brother William, a carpenter. The foundation, tlierefore, was not entirely French. Whoever dubbed Notre Dame the home of the "Fight­ing Irish," was righter than rain. 
They had more than two hundred and fifty miles ahead of them. The weather was bitterly cold every step of the way. They took turns at riding and walking. After a few days of travel, however. Father Sorin decided that he and four of the Brothers should go on ahead, while the other tliree should follow at a slower pace with the o.xen and the laden cart. They finally reached South Bend on November 26tli. 
At that point where the St. Joseph's River comes down from the north­east and swerves oiT in a northwesterly direction toward Lake Mich^n, the twenty-eight-year old Alexis Coquil­lard had come in 1823. He called the site South Bend. After Pierre Navarre, he was the first white man to set up a permanent residence in that locality. The Indians stopped there regularly on their way from the Wabash to the trading post at St. Joseph, Michigan, bearing furs, maple sugar and baskets. The shrewd Alexis asked himself why the Indians should travel all the way to St Joseph. Surely, here at South Bend he could buy at a splendid profit all the Indians had to sell. 
When Father Sorin and his weary band finally arrived at' the frontier village on that freezing November afternoon in 1842, they went at once to the home of Alexis Coquillard. The nephew, then a gangling youth of seventeen, was there to meet them. Mrs. Coquillard, strong and calm of countenance, her black hair parted in the middle and severely drawn to a knot at the back of her neck, made the new arrivak sit at the table. She brought them warm food of which they had tasted little during the past eleven days. Alexis the elder was there, too. He sat down with his guests and conversed happily with them. He described the site at Ste.­Marie-des-Lacs but added that he thought the weather much too severe for them to continue their journey. He advised them to accept his ofTer of shelter until a more moderate day. "Alexis," he said, pointing to his nephew, "can guide you to the spot when it gets a bit warmer." 
The sfiot was already, in a sense, a holy place. For over one hundred and fifty years, this northern region had been an outpost of the Catholic religion. In its forests many an Indian tribe had squatted silently, listening to the words of the Black-Robe. The woods had echoed to the "Ave Maria" sung in more than one tribal tongue. Here, at Ste.-Marie-des-Lacs, scores of red-skins had been baptized. Here, in the rude cabin shelter. Mass had been offered. Here, on his rare visits. Bishop Brute had signed with the cross and chrism the Indians and whites. In the savage heart there was already a veneration and love for the men in black, a persuasion that these missionaries were their real friends, a faith and confidence in the Catholic religion that nothing ever shattered. 
Prior to 1821, the history of Ste.­Marie-des-Lacs is largely shrouded in the mists of Indian tradition. In that year the chiefs of the Indian tribes living in this locality met with the Commissioners of the Public Lands in Chicago. A treaty was drawn up. The Indians ceded to the United States, for the purpose of a road, a strip of land, one hundred yards wide, ruiming from Chicago to the Wabash river, the. exact location of which was to be determined by subsequent surveying. More than that, the Indians agreed to cede, for every mile of that future road, one section of land to the government. These sec­tions of land, grouped where the government so desired, were to be sold to the public, the profits to be used in building and maintaining the road itself. 
By subsequent treaties of 1826,1828, and 1832, a large portion of the pres­ent St Joseph County, passed into government hands. The property on which Notre Dame is located, was in­cluded in these transfers. 
In 1832 Father Badin bought three parcels of land, amounting to 250 acres, from the State; from Samuel Merrill, he purchased two parcels of land; from Austin W. Morris, he ac­quired one parcel. In all. Father Badin acquired 524 acres, including the two lakes on the present campus. Father Badin planned to establish an orphanage on that ground, but after 

a year as we have seen, he abandoned 
the idea, hoping that some one else 
might later fulfill his desire. On July 
31, 1835, Father Badin transferred all 
this property to the Bishop of Vin­
cennes, with the understanding, first, 
that the property would be used for 
an orphan asylum or some other re­
ligious or charitable project, and sec­
ondly, that Father Badin would be 
reimbursed to the extent of seven hun­
dred and fifty dollars for buildings and 
improvements made at his own ex­
pense. 
In June, 1839, when Bishop Brute 
lay dying, he transferred all this prop­
erty to Father John Vabret, his Vicar, 
who in turn was to relinquish his 
holdings as soon as a new Bishop of 
Vincennes had been appointed. When 
Bishop de la Hailandiere returned from 
France where he had been conse­
crated, the transfer from Father 
Vabrel took place. The new Bishop 
tried to interest the Fathers of Mercy 
in cai'rying out Father Badin's dream. 
And in August, 1840; the property at 
Notre Dame was actually transferred 
to Father Ferdinand Bach, of the 
Fathers of Mercy, with the stipula­
tion that Father Bach would estab­
lish a college there. Failure to fulfill 
this condition would compel Father 
Bach to return the land to the Bishop. 
When Father Bach surveyed the sit­
uation, he despaired of fulfilling the 
condition. He did, however, purchase 
an additional three hundred and sev­
enty-five acres from Father Badin, in 
Section 10, Township 30, which prop­
erty he later assigned to the Bishop 
of Vincennes. Altogether, therefore, 
the Bishop held title to nearly nine 
hundred acres of land in St. Joseph 
County. 
As to the buildings on these 
• grounds, there was, first of all, the chapel erected by Father Badin in 1834, in which was buried the body of Father Deseille. Another building served as the house for the halfbreed interpreter, Charron, and his wife. 
Finally, a small shack, not much more 
than a shelter, was standing near the 
chapel. 
For several weeks after Sorin's ar­rival cold weather made it almost impossible to work outside. Father Sorin's first desire was to build an­other chapel. Father Badin's chapel was too small and in a sad state of disrepair. Father Sorin felt that if the chapel were larger it would attract more of the neighboring Catholics and could be so arranged that a portion of the structure might be used to house his community, which, by spring, with the arrival of the Brothers from St. Peter's, would have grown. Im­mediately he appealed to the Cath­olics near South Bend for help in erecting the chapel. They were poor, of course, but they were willing to give of their time and labor — cutting logs, clearing the ground, hauling the timber. The site chosen was higher up on the banks of the lake. Then, on a given day, all the helpers gathered to raise the walls of the chapel. The weather was so cold that the men went home before the roof was put on. They did not return. Father Sorin, by slow stages, and at considerable expense, put the roof on the chapel only after the tiny group of Brothers came in the spring. 
When he left St. Peter's, Father Sorin had split his community in two parts. Eight of them came to Notre Dame. Ten remained at St. Peter's,"®, mostly novices, under the charge of Father Chartier. The Bishop was very anxious that the Novitiate should re­main close to him. But when, sud­denly. Father Chartier left the com­munity, the group at St. Peter's was left without a priest. In that circum-0, stance the Bishop could hardly object when Fa­ther Sorin ordered them all to come to Notre Dame. 
They finally reached Notre Dame on February 27, 1843. It was Mardi Gras and after all their suffering it must have seemed a very Fat Tuesday just to have warm soup. They had hardly arrived, when Father Sorin pointed to the unfinished roof on the new chapel. The next day, all of them set to work. By March 19, the roof was on. They had Mass that morning — it was the feast of St. Joseph — the first in their new church. During the summer, an ad­dition was made to the chapel, and still another was planned, which would make the building ninety feet long. Moreover, under the roof of the chapel, a loft was prepared for the expected Sisters. 
In spite of these improvements. Father Sorin doubted that he would have room enough for his colony and students. He had acquired students from almost the day of his coming. That young Coquillard boy, who led him to the site of Notre Dame, was enrolled as a student, perhaps the first student of Notre Dame. We say per­haps, because from the records it ap>­f>ears that a certain Clement Reckers disputes Coquillard's claim to be con­sidered Notre Dame's first student. There were more than two students, of course, even that first winter. There is every reason to believe that the courses of studies were neither pro­found nor thorough. It is a difficult task for the head of a college to be too meticulous about credit hours and 
•standardized degrees with the wolf so constandy at his door. If he was to begin at all, the head of this new college had to be mighty concerned about frostbite and empty stomachs. The more ethereal problems of intellec­tual development would have to wait. Before quitting Vincennes the pre­vious November, Father Sorin had consulted Mr. Mareile, an architect, and together they had drawn up plans for a college building to be erected at Notre Dame. It was to be in the form of a double hammer, one hun­dred and sixty feet long, thirty-sLx feet wide, and four and a half stories high. It \\'3S a pretentious project for one who ^v•as having difficulty getting enough meat and potatoes. Never­theless, when Father Sorin left Vin­cennes it was understood that Mr. Marsile would come to Notre Dame the following spring to erect that building. In the meantime the archi­tect expected Father Sorin and his Brothers to prepare as much lumber and brick as possible. And this they did, sixty thousand feet of lumber, and two hundred and fifty thousand bricks and the necessary' lime. 
When by late spring the architect failed to appear, Father Sorin and the Brothers began to get nervous. With­out the guidance of Mr. Marsile, they did not feel capable of erecting so large a building themselves. But they had to have more room. So they drew up a plan of a small square brick building, of two stories. In a short time the building was ready. It is what is now called "Old College" or the "Mission House." It is wonder­ful what Father Sorin packed into that building. There was a dormitory for the expected students; a dormitoiy for the Brothers; a refectory'; a bakery; a classroom; and a clothes room. This building is the only origi­nal landmark on tlie campus. It rests 
to the right of the library by St Mary's Lake, in the midst of deep shade, dwarfed by stately halls, like a shrunken but contented mothar siu-­rounded by her numerous well-to-do children. To be sure, a little brick and plaster have been added. But the building still retains the simple, frank expression of the humble inception of Notre Dame. No gilded dome or towering spire, no fleche that cuts the sky, no ornate cornice or sculptured porch was bom except in the lowly hopes of "Old College." 
VVhen it was finished and inhabited, die long-awaited architect arrived. On August 24, he came with two work­men. Why he had so long delayed, we do not know. It seemed alinost too late to start putting up the larger college building that had been planned. Nevertheless, the presence of the architect and his helpers kindled the feeling that the new structure might be started and, with good for­tune, be reasonably complete. Most of the lumber and bricks were at hand. But there was very little money. Father Sorin got out the leather pouch and counted. All too little! But there were friends. Mr. Byerley, who had entertained Father Sorin in New York the day of his anival, was now a resident of Soutli Bend. He offered to loan Father Sorin five him­dred dollars outright, and to extend two thousand dollars credit in the store he conducted in South Bend. Moreover, Father Marivault, one of the new recruits, had an inheritance in France. This he turned over to Father Sorin. It amounted to twelve hundred dollars. In all. Father Sorin had cash or credit for the sum of probably four thousand dollars. Well, what, were they waiting for? Father Serin decided to start building the central part of that double-ham­mered edifice; the two wings could wait for more prosperous days. 
The architect had arrived only on the 24th of August; on the 28th, they 
^ had a formal laying of the comer-stone. Father St. Michael Shawe, vicar-general of the diocese, was there to bless it. Brick upon brick, you could see it growing every day. The mild­ness of the weather favored the work­men. It was hoped that it would be under roof before the snows came. And it would have been, too, had not a fire broken out in the yet imfinished building. This was the first of a series of fires that dogged the early collie years. Fortunately, this time, the dam­age was slight, but it was sufficient to hold up the plastering until the fol­lowing spring. By June, 1844, some of the rooms were ready for oc­cupancy, and by fall the whole was completed, even to a bell hung in the cupola. The first condition laid down by the Bishop had been fulfilled. The 
college was launched. Only a year after Father Sorin's arrival, and before the walls of the new college building had yet been finished, his zeal had made itself felt in a telling way. John B. Defrees, a resident of South Bend, and state Senator to the Indiana legislature, ad­mired the courage of Father Sorin. In a year's time, he noted, this ener­getic priest had laid the foundation of what gave promise of being a fine educational institution. Although a Methodist, he came to see Father Sorin, and offered to procure from the legislature a charter setting up at 
Notre Dame a university with the legal right to exist and grant degrees. One January day in 1844, Father Sorin cjdled all his professors together in his little room in Old Collese. He explamed to pnests and brothers that if they were to be worthy of the Senator's generous offer, they must organize their courses of studies in such a way as to justify the promised charter. It is not difficult to imagine some of the things which Father said to the group of priests and bro'thers. "During this present year, about twenty-five boys have been enrolled in 

our classes. If their education is to be solid and attract others, we must give to each one every attention pos­sible. Surely, we must offer more than spelling, reading, writing, and arith­metic! You, Father Cointet, will teach Latin and Greek! You, Brother Gatin, will teach history and French! Brother Augustin, you will see what you can do with Botany and Zoology!" This was the first faculty meeting. This weekly get-together was to con­tinue unbroken for over thirty years. 
On January 15, 1844, by legisla­tive act. Father Sorin's school became a university. • 
On the 2nd of December, 1843, Father Sorin inserted in the South Bend Free Press a notice of his inten­tion to found a college at Notre Dame. The notice is too long to give here, but we will summarize its more important points. To begin with, he states that the location is one both beautiful and healthful; and that the school can be easily reached from any large city in the region. He de­scribes the college building as being equal to anything in die United States, probably quoting the architect; he promises a gymnasium to provide the last word in recreational facilities. He assures anxious parents that the good Sisters and competent physicians will guard the health of their children. 
As to the discipline, students may a\pect a paternal yet firm attitude. Their morals and deportment will be carefully guarded, their reading mat­ter assiduously watched. During rec­reation periods, a member of the faculty' will always be with them. There will be no whipping or beat­ing. If students cannot be corrected by measures short of corporal punish­ment, they will be dismissed. 
While die college is Catholic in 
•tone, and under the direction of Cath­olics, students of any faith will be ac­cepted. There will be no interference on the part of the faculty with the 
religious tenets of a non-Catholic 
student. 
If, at the end of this two years, we might have witnessed the improve­ments accomplished at Notre Dame, and if, while looking around, we might have encountered that tall, strong figure of the priest who began it, we might e.xclaim: "How did you do this? Tell us, what were your re­sources!" Perhaps he would make an­swer in this fashion: 
"I'oila.' It takes money, or some­thing like money, to make this be­ginning. See what I had! First of all, this land was given to us by the Bishop, land which is ours now, and which we can cultivate. Secondly, I have this devoted band of priests and Brodiers, some of whom will plant the crops and, God willing, reap them; others will teach; all of them will live like poor men, exacting only the merest trifle for their own sustenance. There! We are rich already! 
"But in addition, the Propagation of the Faith has been generous, too. This past year alone, .$1850 came from them, and we have every as­surance that from time to time they will continue to help us. And see how my friend. Father Delaune, for a whole year went about the country 
b^ging for us. He brought us 15,000 
francs. My own Brothers, too, have 
not disdained the role of beggar. Many 
a needed dollar they have brought 
to me. ^ 
"Some of us priests, notably Fathdr 
Marivault and myself, have used up 
the private patrimony that \«ould 
come to us on the death of our parr 
ents. And see the kindness of Mr. 
Byerley! Ah, there b a friend! S(Hne­
times, I wonder how he can have 
such faith in my work! But, thank 
God, he has. Without his extension 
of credit, I should never have been 
able to do all this. 
"Then, too, as I go about the coun­try, caring for the Catholics in St. Joseph, Berrien, Niles, Bertrand, and Plymouth, they give me what they can. It is little enough, for they are poor, and like us, they are making sacrifices, too. But it all helps. Often, I have no cash on hand, and many a night I wonder where I will get food for all my hungry mouths the next day. But sometMng always turns up. 
"For, let me tell you, if all men fail me, there is one treasury that is always full, and from which, when all else is exhausted, I can draw. That is the treasury of Our Most Holy Lady. That afternoon when first we set foot on this land, we went on our knees in the snow and placed our confidence in her. In the darkest hours of our need, in the moments of deepest discouragement, I have called on her for help..Never once has she failed. More than that, so great has been her protection that I am compelled to go right ahead with this work, knowing that her power and kindness will not fail us in the days that lie ahead. 
"Look, when this school. Our Lady's school, shall grow a bit more, I shall raise her aloft so that, without asking, all men shall know why we have succeeded here. To that lovely Lady, raised high on a dome, a golden dome, men may look and find the answer!" 
S5 
Irish Ice a-Smiling 

"Hockey at Notre Dame? How do you spell that anyway? Hooky?" 
"No, hockey. You know, the sort of thing they do in Canada, sometimes in Chicago, too." 
"Yeah, yeah, I know, hockey. But not at Notre Dame." 
"You think not? Well, just imagine putting a stick in an Irishman's hands .. . or getting an all-American tackle on skates .. . or better yet, drawing some of those young French Canadi­ans to a place like Notre Dame du Lac and giving them a slab of ice 
year round to keep the rust off their blades!" "Ok, ok, go ahead, I'm listening. 
A disbeliever in the crowd? Three years ago the whole crowd was, for those were the days when the Univer­sity's first skaters were swarmed over by everybody and their kid brother, sometimes 23-0 or other times 16-0. Those were the days when hockey was introduced at Notre Dame with a ten­nis ball serving as puck, a mere three years ago. 
Now in its fourth season — coached by two Canadians and led by a group 
Sports 

Goalie Leo CoUau 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1957 FEBRUARY 

of stick handlers ^vith names like Bar­ry, Cody, Collins, Courtney, Haley and Ryan — Notre Dame and inter­collegiate hockey rapidly are becom­ing inseparable terms. The team's am­bition and vastly improved play alone this year took it from the confines of South Bend's Howard Park outdoor skating rink to the Chicago Stadium, home of the Blackhawks. There for two consecutive nights and before more than three thousand fans each date, the Skating Irishmen inaugu­rated the annual Notre Dame Invita­tional Hockey Tournament. Though losin? in the last two minutes of the championship game, 6-5, to the varsity scholarship-supported team from Ohio State, the Irish brought college hock­ey for the first time to the Stadium. And from the crowd's reaction jmd the expression of the Stadium's own­ers, the ND tournament should be­come a Christmas holiday favorite. 
Except for their loss to the Buck­eyes, ND has gone undefeated in eight games, averaging 4.71 goals while holding its opposition to a mere 1.85 scoring average. Three of its wins have come by way of shutouts. Victories for the Irish have come at the expense of Beloit, Lewb College, Indianapolis, Illinois (twice), Pekin All Stars, the Air Force Academy and Toledo. 
However, the opportunity for re­venge against Ohio State will be forth­coming during an Irish-Buckeye two-game home and home series. The Staters come to South Bend, Feb. 5, while on March 4, Notre Dame trav­els to Columbus. And who knows? Perhaps the ND-Ohio State Rose Bowl legend will be eclipsed by two teams both known for their aggressive­ness and desire to win. 
At mid-season, Notre Dame's indi­
•\adual high scoring honors are held down by Phil Whitliff, a 200-pound freshman from Port Huron, Mich., who also played center for this year's freshman football team. His nine-game totals came to 15 goals and seven assists for 22 points. Seniors Pete Lamantia (16 pts.) from Toronto, Jim Haley (14 pts.) from Belmont, Mass., and Club President Tom Heiden (12 pts.) from St. Paul are the team's other leading scorers. 
Defensively, the Irish are led by Bill Pfeffer from Duluth, Minn., and Eric Norri from Virginia, Minn., a 240­pound varsity defensive football tackle. Tending the nets for the Irish this year are veteran senior Leo Col­lins from Fargo, N.D., and sophomore John Barry from Chicago, who also was instrumental in organizing the Chicago tournament 
Still on a club sport status at the University, the hockey team has hopes of achieving varsity status next sea-
ALUMNUS JANUARY \967 FEBRUARY 
son or for certain in 1969 when it takes to the ice in the Athletic and Convocation Center's indoor rink. 
Many things are responsible for the sudden rise in hockey at Notre Dame, among them the avid interest of the student body, the anticipation of the multi-million-dollar A & C Center, and the imagination and spirit of the players. But certainly not the least of these is the guidance the sport has received at Notre Dame from its three coaches. Volunteering their time and ser\dce are head coach Jerry Paquette, Vince Marrese and Dick Bressler. Both Paquette and Marrese played semiprofessional hockey in Canada while Bressler was a member of Michigan State's hockey club. 
For Notre Dame Alumni, the hock­ey club has already proven to be some­thing of a boon, particularly for club-sponsored activities. In addition to the Chicago Club's support and interest in the Windy City's Christmas tourna­ment. Alumni in Erie annually host the hockey team for a weekend of two games against that city's semi-pro team, the Erie Lions. This year the two clubs will duel, Feb. 11. 
In the last three years, the word for Notre Dame hockey was "optimism." In its inaugural year the team went 0-7; in 1965 it improved to 2-6; and last year the Club posted their best effort with a 6-9-3 season against a largely varsity-laden schedule. This year, already 8-1, the Irish will con­tinue their optimistic skating, but all the while stacking up an impressive array of victories that will soon ebb them over into varsity status and pos­sibly into a position of being Notre Dame's major \vinter sport 
HOCKEY  
4  Beloit  0  
9  Lewis  1  
5  Indianapolis  4  
3  Illinois  .  1  
5  Ohio  State  6  
4  IJIinois  0  
3  Pekin All  Stars  1  
14  Air Force  0  
7  Toledo  .  2  
Jan. 27 at St. Mary's (St Paul, Minn.) Jan. 28 at Gustavus Adolphus 


(St Paul, Minn.) Feb. 4 No. Illinois Feb. 5 Ohio State Feb. 11 at Erie Lions Feb. 12 at Erie Lions Feb. 17 at Air Force Acad. Feb. 18 at U. of Colorado Feb. 26 Western Michigan Mar. 4 at Ohio State Mar. 10-11 Midwest Tournament 
(Chicago) 
Defeiisiveman Bitt Pftfftr President Tom Heiden Captain Jim HaUy 
mi mm&^ 
m 

The 1966 Fighting Irish squadN 
r .. . and That's the Kind of Year It Was 
was a talented one. It had p>oise 
I N college football, professional ' baseball and pro football, 1966 was a big year for publicity men who call Notre Dame their alma mater. 
The Irish, of course, were ac­claimed National Champions by the United Press Int., Assoc. Press, Na­tional Football Hall of Fame and the Football Writers of America. And yours truly •was privileged to head up the Sports Information Office. 
In professional baseball, the Bal­timore Orioles won the American League pennant and tiien went on to sweep the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series. The victorious Orioles' public relations office is led by Joe Bride '58. 
And in pro football, the Kansas City Chiefs of the American Foot­ball League won the Western Divi­sion, grabbed the AFL crown by smothering the Buffalo Bills and were then matched against the Green Bay Packers in the Super Bowl. Directing all of the atten­dant publicity for the Chiefs was Jim Schaaf '59. 
Thus, the three biggest sporting events of the year — the Michigan State-ND game, the World Series the unexpected. Here at Notre Dame, for instance, we felt we were well prepared for the football sea­son. At least, we had made arrange­ments and plans for press, radio and television coverage; press box ac­commodations, photos and bro­chures; and for all of the minutiae which are the tools of the trade. We must confess, however, that we were not prepared for two diings — Terry Hanratty and Jim Seymour. 
Following the opening game with Purdue, when these two sophomores broke into college football like no other two sophomores in the history of the game, a horde of media peo­ple descended upon the campus in a wild scene that surely must have put the Little Big Horn to shame. And the only thing that saved this writer from the fate of Custer was that Father Time had taken care of the scalping long before Septem­ber 26, 1966. This was only the beginning. All of the major publi­cations in the following three weeks rushed in where others had already trampled and the situation threat­ened to become less oi^anized than the Gold Rush of 1849. 
This is really not all true, but 

VALDISERRI Baptism under fire 
and the Super Bowl which perhaps commanded the widest collective at­tention of sports fans and certainly the attention of more members of the press, radio and television than any other time in the history of American sports — were represented on the publicity fronts by Notre Dame alumni. And, coincidentally, all three were serving for the first time in their respective positions. That, friend, is what is referred to as baptism under fire. 
Publicity men, of course, make preseason prepjirations for the usual and expected demands from the 
\Dress and, in many cases, even for exaggeration does serve the purpose of creating part of the picture. The innocent victim of it all, however, was Ara Parseghian. His patience was tested time and again as he fought to do the one tlung he had to do — prepare a team for a foot­ball game. Only one thing saved Ara from capitulating under the enormous weight of outside demands of his time — organization. Great armies have operated with less pre­cision and only by witnessing the hectic daily schedule Parseghian maintains throughout the season can one fully appreciate what being the Notre Dame football coach entails. 
and class, and above all it had re­
markable leadership in the person 
of Jim Lynch. But the one thing 
we were all proudest of was the 
reputation this team earned as being 
an equally outstanding group of 
young men off the field. Several 
incidents stand out in my mind on 
this f)oint. 
Following the Oklahoma game at Norman, three newspaper writers approached us — one in the dressing room, one in the press box and one as we were leaving the stadium — and, in essence, remarked: "You not only have the best football team I've seen this year but your players are the most articulate boys I've ever talked to." Then the week of the Michigan State game, when every­one seemed to shift into high gear in anticipation of the "Poll Bowl" game, some 25 writers began turn­ing out daily stories from the cam­pus. In order to accommodate the press we decided to let the scribes, as a group, interview t^vo or three players each day. And for a 20- or 21-year-old this can be a harrowing experience. But we were confident our boys could hold their own. "That Lynch came off like four million dollars," one Chicago writer remarked after the Irish captain had been interviewed by the press corps. "Page and Conjar fielded the ques­tions like veterans. They talk better than the pros," said another. 
I mention these incidents for one reason alone. To let you, the Alum­ni, know that the 1966 team is one of which all of you can be proud. It represented Notre Dame like no other team with which I have ever been associated. 
I could go on to give accolades by others. But in the interest of space I would limit these to the re­marks of several opposing coaches. Tom Cahill from the U.S. Military Academy recently stated that the Notre Dame team was not only the best team Army played last season but the cleanest. This ^vas echoed by John McKay of Southern Cal when he publicly noted that in re­viewing the Notre Dame game film he was impressed that not once throu^out the game did he see anything resembling unethical play by Notre Dame players. 
This Notre Dame team scored a good many points off the field dur­ing the season. But that's the kind of team it was. That's the kind of year it was. 
hy Roger O. Valdiserri '54 ND Sports Publicity Director^ 
AlUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY" 
BLEIER "Other back" comes into his own 
Direction in '67 

Lest anyone should forget that there soon will be another year of Notre Dame football upon us, the Fighting Irish have announced next year's football captain. He is Robert "Rocky" Bleier, 5-11, 185 halfback from Appleton, Wise., possibly better known as the "other back." 
This dubious recognition inevitably came Rocky's way this year when he found himself teamed with ND's publicity-studded backfield of Nick Eddy, Larry Conjar and Terry Han-ratty. And when these latter three weren't making the headlines, then a little leprechaun quarterback, Coley O'Brien, stole the thunder. 
Nonetheless, Bleier often made his presence known to ND's opponents. The guitar-playing junior whose major is business management carried the ball for the Irish this year 63 times for 282 yards and an average gain of 4.5 yards per try. 
Second Season 
Not too many years ago, one of Notre Dame's all-time great football coaches implied that for every sophomore he started he might as well count on losing at least an equal number of games. 
Happily, the 1966 football Irish proved something of an exception to the wise old mentor's adage. And now, after a sluggish and often frus­trating early season showing, the Uni­versity's hardcourt aggregation is try­Coach Johnny Dee, adding rookies 
to his first line as tiiough he were 
pouring fuel on a burning bam, sud­
denly has found a winning combina­
tion at midseason in five sophomores. 
To the youngster trio of Amzen, Whitmore and Murphy who started the season. Dee at the turn of the year added guards Jim Derrig and Mike Franger. The results bear men­tioning. In December, the Irish went 3-9. In late January, their month's totals showed five wins and not a loss. 
Franger, a 5-11 football scholar­ship athlete from Elkhart, joined the basketball team in early January and, for the most part, has made his con­tribution by way of speed and ball handling ability. Derrig who came to Notre Dame from St. Francis High School in Wheaton, 111., was given his starting opfwrtunity late in December. Against DePaul, he led Irish scorers with 21 points. 
Individual scoring honors, how­ever, are held by Bob Amzen. The 6-5 forward from St. Thomas, Ky. led the team after 16 games with an average of 22.7 points per game. At this pace, his chances are good to break the school's first-year scoring high held by Tommy Hawkins '59 who chalked up 576 points in his ini­tial year. With 341 now on the record books, Amzen has 13 more games to set a new mark. 
Under the boards, 6-7 Bob Whit­more has snared the team lead for rebounds, averaging 13.7 per game, but closely followed by Amzen with a 13.4 percentage. 
Following their win in the season's opener against Lewis College, the Irish lost nine of their next 11 games, dropping tilts to Detroit, Evansville, St. John's and Indiana by narrow margins. Notre Dame's worst defeat was at the hands of undefeated UCLA who with Lew Alcindor and Co. whipped the Irish in Los Angeles, 96-67. 
Dee's frequent shifting of personnel is an effort to find a combination able to move the ball consistently. 

The lack of team quarterbacks was obvious even before the season b^an. All one had to realize was that out of the team's 16 varaty players, 13 played center in high schooL 
The resurgence of the team began with a victory against the Air Force Academy and continued with suc­ces^ve wins against King's College, DePaul, Detroit and Illinob. Earher in the season, the Motor City Titans had edged ND by one point. 
Ahead for the Irish — who on two occasi(ms have drawn attendance in excess of 17 and 12 thousand—is a schedule of topr-ranked opponents. Ammig them are Michigan State, Houston, NYU and Duke. Their work is cut out for them. And no one knows it better than Coach Johnny Dee and a group of youngsters who rapidly are becoming experienced sophomores. 
BASKETBALL (Won 8, Lost 9) 

100 Lewis College 77 80 Toledo 98 73 Detroit 74 99 Evansville 105 97 St. Norbert's 72 62 St. John's 65 91 Indiana 94 67 UCLA 96 63 California 69 69 Montana 70 88 Hawaii Marines 67 85 Kentucky 96 68 Air Force Academy 56 93 King's Col. (Pa.) 54 76 DePaul 72 87 Detroit 71 90 Illinois 75 
Jan. 30 Butler at Indianapolis Feb. 1 Michigan State Feb. 4 Georgia Tech at Atlanta Feb. 6 Hawaii Feb. 8 DePaul Feb. 11 Houston (Homecoming) Feb. 13 Butler Feb. 18 Bradley at Chicago Feb. 20 Western Michigan Feb. 23 NYU at Madison Sq. Gard. Feb. 25 Duke at CharloHe Mar. 4 Creighton 
ing to prove that its first-year cagers ARNZEN also are something more than average. When sophomores come of age 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19<7 FEBRUARY 5> 
1967  FOOTBALL  
Sept.  23  California  
Sept.  30  at  Purdue  
Oct.  7  Iowa  
Oct.  14  Southern California  
Oct.  21  at  Illinois  
Oct.  28  Michigan  State  
Nov.  4  Navy  
Nov.  11  at  Pittsburgh  
Nov.  18  at Georgia Tech  
Nov.  28  at Miami  

Then, There Was the Time 
Rfty Years Ago — 1917. Tlie year marked several changes . . . Jesse C. Harper signed a contract to direct Notre Dame atliletics for the next three years . . . adoption of the three-year eligibility rule . . . new era of schedule malang badly disfigured by the withdrawal of many colleges fol­lowing the declaration of war. Indoor track — Notre Dame nosed out Wis­consin, 1916 Western Conference champions, in what was reputed to be the most exciting track contest in local history as Capt. Miller, McDonough, Kasper and Meehan established a new track record of 3:33 for die mile re­lay. Basketball suffered the loss of many veterans and ended its season with an eight and five record. Twenty-five Years Ago — 1942. Bas­ketball — a squad of sophomore cagers brought Coach George Keogan his 19th consecutive winning year as Notre Dame's head basketball mentor . . . the scoring of 1045 points was the second highest ever recorded by an Irish team in a season of 22 games or more .. . New Year's Eve victory over year's keenest rivals, Nordiwestem, 40­
3. Golf — designated a "major sport" and team members eligible for mono­grams. Tennb — unbeaten until final match with Northwestern, 5-4. Fenc­ing — third winning season in a row. Rfteen Years Ago — 1952. Basket­ball — In Johnny Jordan's first year as head coach the team turned in a 16­10 record . . . Johnny Dee's first year as assistant coach .. . in his last game for Notre Dame Leroy Leslie broke 
records for three-year scoring total, single game score with 32 points, more starting games than any other player with 73 starts and was selectwl the first player on the College All Star team. Ten Years Ago — 1957. Fencing — Wisconsin's Badgers snapf>ed Notre Dame's 15-game winning streak which had extended over two seasons . . . Irish w n over Illinois was the 100th of Coach Langford's career at Notre Dame. Swimming — Tom Londrigan set a new pool and team record for the 440 free style of 5:17.6. Track — the team took their fifth straight championship in the Central Collegi­ate indoor track meet Basketball — Irish received their third invitation to the NCAA tournament in five years and rose to the occasion, winning two out of three. Rve Years Ago — 1962. Boxing — Tim Reardon was presented with his second straight "Outstanding Boxer" award at the close of the Bengal Bouts. Soccer — in their premiere sea­son a record of 3-2 with losses coming to nationally ranked and undefeated teams. Fencing — posted its worst season in 15 years with a losing record of 7-8. Basketball — Irish post a los­ing record of 16-23. One Year Ago—1966. Track—'The Man" of the year was miler Ed Dean, 
whose fight with the mile earned out­standing ovations at every meet and a record 4:03.6 at tlie CCC meet in Notre Dame's fieldhouse. Skiing— for the first time in its five-year history the team failed to make the NCAA championships. Hockey — Notre Dame hockey arrived after two years of struggle: "1,500 people jumping up and down. Too cold to stand still. Too excited to take a cliance on miss­ing some of the action by going inside to warm up. Notre Dame outskating, outshooting and outchecking a very respectable Air Force team. WSND broadcasting the game back to the campus. 1,500 people all e.xpressing a common sentiment: 'Man, this is the greatest sport since football.' " Scho­lastic, Feh. 11, 1966. 

r 
The 
Lost 
Imuge 

Ifg Ambroae F. DuMey 
I AM the father of six children and a graduate of the University of Notre Dame. In World War II I flew 54 missions in a B-24 Bomber and was awarded die Distinguished Flying Cross. I have been actively engaged in the field of athletics for over 30 years as a player, coach, athletic director and owner. I have traveled extensively all over the world and in 1964 was in charge of the United States Ice Hockey Team that played a series of games in Russia and Czechoslovakia. I have spent a life­time dealing with youdi. This background perhaps will en­able you to be tolerant of me when I strike what I think is an important note to fathers and mothers all over America and, especially, to all present and past college athletes. The recent troubles on the campus at Berkeley and numerous odier col­lege campuses all over the US, con­vince me that an alien philosophy has crept into the curriculum of these students. I would like to pay tribute to the colleges which are still teaching the philosophy of the Founding Fa­thers so that their students will grow up and respect the objects sought by those great men who gave us our Dec­laration of Independence, our Bill of Rights and our Constitution. Further­more, I pray these students are taught that the Founding Fathers believed in a personal, living God. I hope they are taught to respect Washington on his knees at Valley Forge just like they should MacArthur with his head bared saying The Lord's Prayer in the ruins of Korea. I want my children to attend an American college with a robust Amer­ican spirit which will impregnate them with genuine patriotism — that is not a mere academic study — it is a life-giving devotion to respect the bless­ings of liberty and undying devo­tion and thanksgiving to God. I want them to be taught and to fully under­
\.
Harper Keogan 
Longford 
ALUMNUS JANUARY }967 FEBRUARY 

Bud Dudley, NO'S new Alumni Association president "^ and winner of Freedoms Foundation honor medal^ encourages athletes to assume leadership positions in combating "malcontents" on today's college campuses. 
stand the meaning of those greatest of words — duty, honor, country. 
A year ago, I watched the NCAA and NIT college basketball finals on television and want to believe that these men were not merely men of brawn and skill but wholesome Amer­ican youngsters who were taught the significance of the Ten Command­ments, The Sermon on the Mount, and other fundamental principles of religion, without which this nation must die, and deser\'es to die. I hope and pray that they are being given a thorough course in American history and that they are taught by profes­sors who are proud of their inheri­tance as American citizens. You can't get this in an institution where the philosophy of Communism is tolerated and where agnosticism is the emblem of academic culture. 
Many magazines of late have de­voted many pages on what is on the minds and in the hearts of the modem college generation. I read them and find their contents often misleading. From personal experience, I feel that 90 percent of today's students are not too changed but tliat we are in an era in which the extremists have suc­ceeded in confusing the administration and, consequently, colleges are in a rather awkward transition period. One statement which really made me shud­der was that the best seller in 1965 in college bookstores was Candy. The late Dorothy Kilgallen quoted Mau­rice Girodias, the head of Olympic Press which published Candy, as fol­lows: "I'm all for the corruption of youth. Corruption is an essential part of education. What I'm against is the square world." I wonder what "lucky" school can number him among their alumni. 
In the May 8 (1965) edition of 
The Saturday Evening Post there ap­peared an article entitled "The 
Explosive Revival of the Far Left" It 
goes on to tell of the most explosive 
of the new groups who call them­
selves die Progressive Labor Party. 
Many of their members are bearded, 
young bohemians who wear sandals 
and smoke marijuana and hang out 
on Manhattan's lower east side. 
Quoting the Post, "Progressive Labor 
was started in 1962 by a pair of long­
time Communists. Ninety percent of 
its members are under 30. They or­
ganized the student trips to Cuba, are 
being trained in karate, have estab­
lished arms caches in the New York 
area and are talking about sending a 
select cadre abroad for training. This 
cadre would return and go under­
ground to become terrorists in the 
event of the expected war with 
China." Unbelievable — right! 
In the last 15 years I have been invited to speak at all sorts of func­tions here in the US and behind the Iron Curtain. I have seen, firsthand, what it is like to be denied the free­dom of speech and can vouch for its undesirability. On the other hand, I feel that an abuse of this privilege takes place when the speech involves obscene words and acdons. I was shocked by the "signs bearing nothing but an obscene four letter word" in­cident on the campus of the Univer­sity of California {Life, March 19, 1965 issue) and, likewise, by the gall of those students who were sell­ing obscene literature. It is reported that a transcript of the demented gob­bling that passed for oratory at the "filthy speech" rally would turn the stomachs of decent people. I couldn't believe that decent red-blooded Amer­ican men would stand idly by and have women be subjected to such insults. 
Why are these so-called intellec­tuals — malcontents and beatniks — the local campus leaders? In my opin­ion, it is because most modem col­lege athletes appear to be taking the easy way out and are not assuming their normal roles as leaders and men of responsibility. Not too many years ago the athlete enjoyed a unique posi­tion on every college campus in Amer­ica. He was admired, respected and held in high regard by the entire stu­dent body. 
In recent years he has sat back and allowed a small group of students who basically are jealous of his athledc ability, to malign and ridicule him 
primarily in the school paper and at 
other public gatherings. These "angry 
young men" have created a distorted 
image of "all brawn and no brains." 
I would like to strongly urge every 
varsity athletic club on every colli e 
campus in America to take stock of 
themselves — to encourage their more 
outstanding members to nm for class 
ofiBces — to join the staff of the school 
paper — to run for student council — 
to take a leading role in every stu­
dent activity. I think the other stu­
dents would enjoy it and would soon 
learn that all adiletes are not "square­
heads" but most of them are fine, re­
spiectful young gendemen. A perfect 
example this year (1965) was Bill 
Bradley of Princeton. An Ail-Ameri­
can and a Rhodes scholar! I'm sure 
that every campus in America has a 
Bill Bradley. Let's hear about him — 
let's light a fire under him — let's all 
get together and help r^ain this "lost 
image." 
Alumni varsity clubs can help by urging their prospective new members that it is high time that the clean, wholesome dement of the campus take over. Encourage them to show these "angry yoimg men" what a ro­bust college training can do to train a boy physically and mentally but es­pecially spiritually in the way of ser­vice to bus God and a credit to his country. 
Frankly, I have had enough of this "beatnik" type and all of his com­plaints about his school and the United States in general. I pray to God that he will soon pass from the scene and once again we will be re­stored to sanity. I am proud of my Alma Mater — I am proud to be an American — I thank God every night that I do not have to live in most of the foreign countries I have ever vis­ited. Only after cme short trip, most people are convinced that the US isn't too bad after all. Let us preserve what we have — let's pull this game out of the fire! 
Ambrose F. Dudley, known by many as "Bud," became president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in January.Father of six children and a resident of 
Wynnewood, Pa., Bud is president of the Liberty Bowl. Originally from Philadelphia,he graduated from Notre Dame in 1942 after serving as a varsity football and baseball player and as president of his class. Following his service with the Army Air Corps, Bud became athletic director at Villanova from 1953 to 1957. 
J 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1967 FEBRUARY 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 

THOMAS P. CARNEY "37 HONORARY PRESIDENT AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 PRESIDENT JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 VICE-PRESIDENT THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 VICE-PRESIDENT CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47 VICE-PRESIDENT JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY JAMES D. COONEY '59 ASSISTANT ALUMNI SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '54 JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 P.O. BOX 200 
/' 

19965 BRIARCLIFF SOUTH BEND, IND. 46624 DETROIT, MICH. 48221 LEO V. TURGEON '42 
THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 SUITE 107 214 W. 20th CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 3731 STOCKER ST. 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 LOS ANGELES, CALIF 90008 519 SUSSEX RD. WYNNEWOOD, PA. 19096 DIRECTORS TO 1970 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON 'A7 EDWARD G. CANTWELL '24 73 MT. WAYTE AVE. 700 BINNS BLVD. FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01702 COLUMBUS, OHIO 43204 
M A 
EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK '54 DIRECTORS TO 1969 5 THE MAPLES 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 ROSLYN ESTATES, N.Y. 11576 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. JOHN J. REIDY '27 WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 11850 EDGEWATER DR. 
V/ILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. '40 LAKEWOOD, OHIO 44107 1108 EMILIE ST. LEONARD H. SKOGLUND '38 GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 426 DOVER AVE. 
LAGRANGE PARK, ILL. 60525 
JMAGAZINE STAFF 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 EDITOR JOHN P. THURIN '59 MANAGING EDITOR DUTE WINSKUNAS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT BRUCE HARLAN '49 PHOTOGRAPHER EDWARD E. HERRMANN ART CONSULTANT JAMES E. MURPHY 'A7 
R. PATRICK STRICKLER '65 
ai 
NOTRE DAME 
PUBLIC INFORMATION 
iimw 








