The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 65 
Qii IIIIIUIIIIUIUIMHUIIIIU Q 
When You Come to See the Gaines in CHICAGO 
Enjoy Your Stay to the Utmost—at the 

MORRISON HOTEL 
Madison and Clark Streets 
Tallest Hotel in the World—46 Stories High 
0 doubt you are already making plans for November 16 and 23. These games 
N 

will be played in Chicago—against Southern California and Northwestern. 
All "Downtown" at Your Door 
To make the most of your trip, stop at the Morrison Hotel. No other leading hotel in the city gives such quick and convenient access to the majority of the downtown theatres, stores, and railroad terminals. 
Rooms, $2.50 up. Each With Bath The sti'ategic location has so enhanced the revenues from subrentals that they pay all the ground rent, and the saving is passed on to the guests. Rooms are rented at a fraction of the rate charged at other leading hotels for similar rooms. Every room is outside, mth bath, circulating ice-water, bed-head reading lamp, telephone and Servidor. Every floor has its own housekeeper, and garage accommodation is abundant. 
The Terrace Garden and Boston Oyster House 
The fame of this historic location is largely due to the individual character of the Boston Oyster House, a Chicago landmark for over half a century. The Ten-ace Garden, also, has won national celebrity with its delicious menus, viva­cious dance music, and brilliant enter­tainments. The Cameo Room, seating 2000, offers ideal conditions for fraternity, 
^meetings and banquets. 
The Nete Morrison, when completedt will be the world's largest and tallest hotel, 46 stories high, with 3400 rooms. 
Write for Reservations or Telephone Franklin 9600 
1 iiitllllttllltllllllilll'llil ill)«li>lllllllltiitll 
•« 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, t929 
•IIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIII "Q Q' lllllllllttlltllllllltllltll))liiltllll{ B 



Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES CHASE NATIONAL BANK BUILDING TWENTY PINE STBEET NEW YORK CITY 
J^ 

HARRY J. CULLEN, '23 
LOUIS E . WAGNER, '18 
El,. 

Notre Dame Club 
Of the City of New York 
One of the finest units of the Notre Dame Alumni 
Annual Dues $5 
22 East Thirty-Eighth Street At Madison 


ALLERTON 
Club Residences 
-•-•-*-«­

Headquarters for 


Notre Dame Men 
New York - Chicago Cleveland 
—fr-«—fr-fr-

WEEKLY BATES TRANSIENT RATES ¥12.00 to $22.00 $2.50 to $3.60 
EXECUTIVE OFFICE: 28S Madison Ave., New York 
••I"] QiiiiiitilittiHllltlltiiiiiiiniittilllllMiuiiHiiiiiiiiiiiii)iiiiiitiiiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiii)Q 
iiTaJ fa|ititiitiiitiiiiiiimiiinitiimiiiiitiiitmtiitimminiiniiiiiiiiiiinimtmtnitiitiiitiiitiiitintmiti^51 


Marquette Club 
Dinner Dances 
1929-1930 
-*-*-•-•­

Nov. 30 Dec. 31.. Feb. 15 March 17 
 McAlpin Roof  Hotel Plaza  The St. Regis  Hotel Plaza 

Dues reduced to only $5 a year. 
—•-•-•-•­

MARQUETTE CLIIB 
22 East Thirty-Eighth St. NEW YORK 
itiittiiitiiaiii ..Q Q.. 

B" 
IllllUtlllltllll 
SPEAKERS ]liotcc op Leadixu^Statijotis 
in ActjoinitigRoontf^-' 
fALLERTON HOUSE! 
cmCAQOy CLUB R^SIDZnCB^ . 
^OPFiaAtdUCAOP HEAPQlUKIE/25/ for 102 Cott^es-atiA. tUwKKPiticiT ' C** anJ.20Nattonat Sovoriiies*** ^ 
'~»1Z5? per Avcck. •u«>~->.'~-. 
f €€TI3ALL jf EA$€N 
rrOP AT THE 

ALLECT€N 
NCTEE DAME HEADCUACTEKJ IN CfilCASC 
e. 
1:0 

The Notre Dame Club of the City of New York 
Club Headquarters I 
22 East 38th Street | 
Phil J. Doherty 
Ambrose O'Connell 
Peter P. McElligott 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 320 West 23rd Street 
Manhattan Refrigerating Co. Union Terminal Cold Storage Co. Kings County Refrigerating Co. 
OfHces: 525 West Street, N. Y. C. 
i\f"}]tC17lhCT' 
Informal Dinner Dance After Army Game 
McALPIN HOTEL 
Nov. 30 
6 P. M. 
illiam E. Cotter 
William A. Daunt 
A New York Alumnus 
John T. Balfe 
PEKSONAL INSURANCE 
Li/e Insurance Ti'tists Corporation Insurance Inheritance Taxes Und&rwHtten 
Graybar Building 
NEW YORK CITY 

Q.. •Illlllllllllllllltlllltlllllllltllllllllllllllltl iiiiiitiiiiiiiinimmittiiitii|S] 
November, 1029 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
0.., 
IN THIS ISSUE 
Portrait of K. K. Eockne Frontispiece 
The Football Season to Date . 71 
Recent Books on Biology, by Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C. 76 
The Local Clubs— 78 
Cartier Field, Old and New, by Al Gall SO 
Women's Club Page, by Sr. M. Fidelis, O.S.U. 82 
Editorial 83 
N. C. C. M. Convention-84 The Alumni 87 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of sinf^lc copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of ?5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1897. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
JVLEMBEB OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE NATION.U, CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JASIES E . ARJISTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgi-. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
MARK M. FOOTE, '73 Honorary President JOHN W. EGGEJIAN, '00 
President JAMES E . DEERY, '10 
Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 
Treasurer ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 
Director GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 
Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 ­
Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 
(ex officio) Director 
..^ 
Comment 
1929-30 Basketball Schedule 

(Tentative) Dec. 7—Lake Forest Col. at Notre Dame Dec. 13—Albion Colleae at Notre Dame Dec. 19—Northwestern at Notre Dame Dec. 23—Iowa at Notre Dome Dec 28—Ohio State at Columbus Doc. 31—Northwestern at Evanston Jan. 7—Indiana at Bloomincton Jan. 11—Marquette Univ. at Notre Dame Jiin. IS—Univ. of Pittsbursh at Pittsburgh Jan. 22—Michigan State at Lansing Jan. 31—AVabash College at Notre Dame Feb. 4—Marquette Univ. at Milwaukee Feb. 8—U. of Pittsburgh at Notre Dame Feb. 14—Butler Univ. at Indianapolis Feb. 18—Slichigan State at Notre Dame Feb. 22—^\Vabash College at Crawfordsville Feb. 28—Butler University at Notre Dame Mar. 8—Univ. of Penn. at Philadelphia 
The basketball schedule printed in this issue was released too late to secure a write-up concerning it. De­tails will appear in the December issue. 
A new quarterly literary magazine will vrith the New Year replace the former literary section of the Scho­lastic, which will continue in its pres­ent form to be a purely news medium. Authorities are casting about for a name for the quarterly. The ALUM­NUS makes bold to suggest that the 
literary traditions of the Scholastic are as strong as its news connotation, and to suggest further that the new quarterly be designated merely as the Quarterly Literary Edition of the Notre Dame Scholastic. In this way the old traditions could continue; the quarterly could share in the advertis­ing revenue of the weekly (the quar­terly is not to have advertising, the ALUMNUS understands); and in­stead of being a luxurious literary orphan, it could be the quarterly div­idend of its prospering weekly cousin; the staff and control could also be more easily centralized; as could printing facilities. 
When you get your tickets for Southern California, if you don't like them, think of this: 534 applications of alumni paid were filed in the Ath­letic Office, which, at 8 tickets each, took most of the seats between the 50-yard line and the goal post. So that even some paid-up alumni were around the goal post. But more than 1100 applications were filed by alum­ni whose dues were not paid by Aug­ust 1, and which, at 8 tickets each, extended this section well around the south curve. 
KNUTE K. ROCKNE, '14 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. NOVEMBER, 1929 No. 3 
Our Football Experiences Another Great Season 
C
HAMPIONSHIP and ail-Amer­ican discussions are admittedly premature. But this is cer­tain, though Notre Dame be beaten by Drake, Southern California, North­western and iVrmy—games to be played at this wi-iting—Knute K. Eockne, '14, has turned out another great football team. 
Nor is "great" used in the ver­nacular. Victories over Indiana, Wis­consin, Navy, Carnegie Tech and Georgia Tech on the first five suc­cessive Saturdays of the present sea­son, from three of which series Coach Eockne was absent, have placed the stamp of genuine greatness on the Notre Dame team of 1929. 
Several factors have contributed to Notre Dame's success. One of the out­standing is Coach Eockne himself. In spite of an illness which is painful and tedious, he has refused to quit and has contributed more than his physical condition has warranted to the preparation of the team for these games. 
In this difficult situation the work of the assistant coaches has been of inestimable value. Tom Lieb, '23, former star tackle and track man. 
N. D. 14, INDIANA 0 N. D. 14, NA\-I-7 N. D. 19, WISCONSIN 0 
N. D. 7, CARNEGIE TECH 0 
N. D. 26, GEORGIA TECH 6 
Assistant Couch Mills 

who returned to Notre Dame last year after two yeai's as assistant coach at the University of Wisconsin, has been the chief substitute for Eockne in the Na\'y, Wisconsin and Georgia Tech games which Eockne was unable to attend. Rock's success with substitutes has seldom been ex­emplified to better advantage. Tom's experience with the Big Ten seems to have added a few gray hairs and much that has been helpful to the Notre Dame team. 
Tommy Mills, formerly head coach of Beloit College, Beloit, Wis., now head coach of baseball at Notre Dame and assistant to Eockne in football, has been performing - invaluable sei-vice in grooming the freshman squad for the ^^tal scrimmaging with the varsity, scouting, and generally assisting. Jack Chevigny, one of the stars of last year's team, has been putting much of his own ability and fire into the Notre Dame backfield. John Voedisch, one of Rock's valued ends of last year, has done things with the ends this year that have been evident in the games played. Bill Jones, a conscientious member of the squad for the past three years, is back to complete his law course, and has been busy inculcating the Rockne principles in the freshman team. 
The familiar war-time phrase, "the men behind the men behind the guns," is peculiarly applicable to Notre Dame's coaches. The "guns" of Notre Dame that wither opponents week after week are manned imme­diately by the famous Rockne squads. But behind these squads, working tirelessly, constructively, with an abiding interest in Notre Dame, in the boys, and in the sport, are these coaches. 
"Rock" of course stands out on the Notre Dame staflt like Gibraltar among fortresses. His is a genius 
Ehler
Assistant Coach Chevigny Savoldi gains 35 yards 

that stands out in the entire field of football. A graduate of Notre Dame, '14, as pointed out last month, he needs no eulogies or elaboi-ations. His record since 1917, when he succeeded Jesse Harper as head coach, is out­standing. 
Rockne's teams have won 92 games played against the outstanding teams in the country's football history. They have lost but 13 games during that period, and have tied 6 games. During the seasons of 1919, 1920 and 1924 not a game was lost or tied. In 1917, 1918, 1921, 1922, 1923, 1926 and 1927 only one game was lost during the season. 
Cannon 
Seventy football coaches through­out the counti-y are Rockne-trained alumni of Notre Dame, many of them connected with the country's leading teams. 
The 1929 first string backfield 
in the Indiana game. 
of Carideo, Elder, Brill and MuUins has been hailed as a second edition of the immortal Four Horsemen. But the reser\'e backfield strength, in Geberd, Schwartz, O'Connor and Savoldi, has ser\'ed almost equally effective purpose. Line strength is good throughout the first two teams, and is responsible, as usual, in large measure for the success of the back­fields. For the first time since 1924, Rock has had a unit of "shock troops" sufficiently powerful to take the field against every opponent and render excellent account. The choice between the shock troops and the designated regulars is frequently alleged to be a matter of opinion, and is in fact largely a matter of the polish that comes with an added sea­son's experience. 
Details of the games to date have been reported rather far and wide in the press and it hardjy seems essen­tial to re-cover that familiar ground. 
The Indiana victory, starring Jack Elder, Louisville's current contribu­tion to Notre Dame's sports history, opened the eyes of the sport world mildly, as Pat Page's Hoosiers were given the generous pre-season rating of a dark horse. Its chief value to Notre Dame football fans was in in­troducing shock troops that pushed the Indiana eleven rather freely and decisively about the field, albeit it re­mained for Jack Elder (who has fre­quently tied the world's 60-yard dash record for fame in another field, as you recall) and his regular team­mates to do the actual scoring. 
The Navy game, from which 
Eockne was forced to absent himself because of his leg, opened the public eye a great deal farther. Navy was admittedly a strong team. But with the unleashing of Marty Brill, half­back playing his first year at Notre Dame, and Larry "Moon" MuUins, unexpectedly strong at full-back, along with the proved duo of Elder and Carideo, Notre Dame overcame a Navy lead of 7 points made in the first quarter and was never in dan­ger from the Navy eleven, nothwith­standing a stubborn aggressiveness that persisted on the Navy side throughout the game. A pass over the goal line from Carideo, who had been knocked to his knees, to Elder for the first touchdown was the out­standing play. Mullins scored the second touchdown. 
Wisconsin, on Oct. 19, before a crowd of 90,000 on Soldiers' Field, Chicago, reaped the whirlwind where last year at Madison it sowed a rather stiff wind. Joe Savoldi, who had been muttering like thunder in the background of the two preceding games, broke on Wisconsin with a crash, scoring two of the three touch-
Schicartz 

downs on runs of 40 and 72 yards, Elder making the other on a run of 43 yards through practically the en­tire Wisconsin team. (You have probably gathered that Rock has taught Jack a lot of things about ball-carrying that even his speed couldn't supply for him last year.) The interference and team play in the game had the public eye fairly pop­ping, and sports writers began to store up Notre Dame leads again. The Italian full-back from Three Oaks, Michigan, became a national figure overnight, and with Carideo, has lined up behind Notre Dame an­other gi-eat bloc of the American public to complicate the demand for tickets. Notre Dame, with moi-e than twice as much yai'dage lost on penal­ties, gained over thi-ee times as much from sci-immage, and completely out­played Coach Thistlethwaite's touted team. 
Carnegie Tech, which had also sowed for itself in 1926 and again in 1928 considerably more than the ordinary zephyr, proved to be in a sustained mood for sowing on Oct. 26 in Pittsburgh, even without the re­doubtable Harpster. But Rock him­self practically rose from a sick bed to accompany the team on this trip, and something in the nature of a wheel-chair philosophy was introduced to the greatest football crowd that 
Brill 
ever assembled in Pittsburgh. When the smoke of battle, or of Pittsburgh, had lifted to permit vision, Rockne's boys had repaid his efforts by a 7-0 victory, and first downs and yardage 

Notre Dame's "million dollar infield"—{left to right) Miss Faidkner, Ed Thelmen, Herb Jones, '27, Art Haley, '26, and Miss Williams. On the desk are all the good tickets, which are burned before each game to avoid selling them. More plainly, these are Athletic Office headliners. 
almost three times that of Coach AVaddell's team to indicate the pur­pose behind the score. Joe Savoldi plunged against the hard and de­termined Carnegie line for the lone touchdown. Jack Elder was much in evidence, with the longest run of the day for 33 yards, and several gains that eventually defeated the Carnegie eleven. Both teams were strong on defense and neither wished to take any great chances. The result was the hard game and the close score. Judge Walter Steffen of Chicago was among those present at the game. 
Georgia Tech, third of the four­some that scored victories against the Notre Dame team of last year, was met on Nov. 2, and was the third of the same foursome to be chastened by a Notre Dame team that wanted to send the right word back to South Bend where illness had once more confined the Coach. On long runs and passes Elder, Carideo, MuUins and Marchmont Schwartz (a Mississippi boy who is hailed by his Southern ad­mirers as another Flanagan) scored. Elder scored on a 53-yard run; Car­ideo carried back a punt 75 yards for a touchdown; a long pass put the ball on Tech's one-yard line toward the end of the first half and Mullins put it across; and the last score came when penalties pushed Georgia Tech to its 10-yard line and Schwartz climaxed the approach with a 6-yard gain to the goal. Tech scored first, which merely aggravated the Notre Dame offense. Two touchdowns, one after a 61-yard run by Mullins, the other after a 48-yard run by Carideo, were called back by penalties. 
These brief summaries are of course inadequate as reports of the game, but every important paper in 
Savoldi 

the country has carried detailed ac­counts. What the ALUMNUS would like to do is to point out some of the boys who don't make the publicity so strong but who are in there just as much. 
November, 1929

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Binghampton, N. Y., are in. And East is East turns out to be just as effective as the former West is West 

ScJnvartz eludes worried Wisconsin temn. 
Captain John Law is a good exam­ple. John prepped at Yonkers and Hamilton Institute. His leadership and aggressive play at right guard have been physically and mentally stimulating to his team. His running mate. Jack Cannon, left guard, seems to bring into visual experience the old expression, "hell-bent for elec­tion." Cannon, a Columbus, Ohio, boy, plays without a headgear and seems to have the speed and elusive­ness of an end on punts, being re­sponsible for many receivers being stopped in their tracks. Cannon, one of the coaches summarizes, needs a kick in the head to warm him up. Any all-Amei'ican—^but that line, as l)re\'iously stated, is premature. 
Tim Moynihan, center, plays the kind of a game that spectators notice. Hailing from Rawlins, Wyoming, academically, Tim's aggressiveness, coolness and general appearance would give Zane Grey some new 
Vezie 
pointers for heroes. And those who have heard the hand Tim gets when he goes into or out of a game, know that it is more than surface appeal. 
Joe Nash, who usually jjrecedes and follows Tim at the center berth, is a big disappointment to those on the other side of the line who hail Tim's 
Slullins 
absence as a let-up in punishment. Joe is a heads-up center, coming from Chicago where heads have to up, and he handles all the duties of the job in an efficient manner. 
Ted Twomey, looking somewhat like the Buck Shaw school of tackles, has been very much in evidence during the season. Ted comes from Ouluth, and the old north country takes them young and treats them rough. Frank Leahy, from Winner, South Dakota, has been Twomey's co-tackle during most of the games, and has played in that earnest manner that makes the lay spectator wonder about identify­ing football as a sport. 
Sadness in the opposing squads has been evinced with the tackle substi­tutes as well as others. When Leahy and Twomey are out, Dick Donoghue, Auburn, N. Y., and Regis McNamai-a, 
Moynihan 
combination. The purpose and the 
result ai-e usually the same. 
Tom Kassis, from Casper, Wyom­ing, is the boy who takes Jack Can­non's place, and sufficient praise for him is to state that things haven't changed much at guard during his incumbency. Bert Metzger, another Chicagoan, holds down the other guard berth on the shock troops, and belies his "watch-charm" appearance with a solidity and aggressiveness that have startled a number of con­fident ball carriers coming his way. 
A number of good ends this year give Rock a constant threatening power on offensive and a defensive strength that have enabled him to develop an attack that is the despair of the opposing teams. Manfred Vezie, McDonald, Pa., has been one of the strong spots on defense, but a bad knee has held him in check for the past few games. Tom Conley, Philadelphia, a fellow Keystoner, has been carrying on ably where Vezie left off. John Colrick, St. Benedict, 
N. J., basketball star, is a constant threat at left end on offense, and has 
Colrick 
been playing a tight defensive game throughout the early season. Ed Collins, Oak Park, a brother of "Chuck" Collins, '25, end on the 

November, 1929 THE NoTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
championship '24 eleven, is one of the 
best defensive ends on the squad. 
When he hits, and he hits often, com­

mon description would say that they 
stay hit. 
Al Gebert, Jacksonville, 111., has 

b-en doing a fine job of running the 
shock troops, and his interference in 
the Wisconsin game particularly was 
good to look at. Marchmont Schwartz, 
of Bay St. Louis, Miss., is playing his 
first year and this fact is a source of 
much enthusiasm, for his showing as 
an all-around good left half-back has 
been more than ordinary. 
Paul O'Connor, who prepped up in 

N. Walpole, N. H., has been playing right half on the shock troops with an ability that has kept him there in 
face of heavy competition. Joe Sa­Notre Dame line stops hard Navg attack. 
voldi, the 192-pound fullback from 
Three Oaks, Mich., is fast becoming a who has shown up well at end; Al Nor does it include Bemie Leahy, prophet with plenty of honor in his Howard, Alhambra, Calif., who has Chicago, who has made the half-backs own neighborhood. Big Joe is one of been bucking the tough competition on the regular and shock outfits 
the most powerful plungers that has of Mullins and Savoldi at full-back; restless; Norm Herwit, another Chi­held the fullback berth at Notre cago guard with spirit and expe­Dame in some time. rience; Gus Bondi, a strong guard The above brief mentions are not candidate from Dixon, 111.; John Rockne's analysis, but that of an O'Brien, end, whose taking of the humble lay spectator. Nor do they pass last year beat the Army; Abe include a ilock of good boys who are Zoss, known to every alumnus of the patiently and earnestly putting every­past decade, who is making a big bid thing they have into the work of the for a guard berth in a season rather squad, and whose efforts are respon­jammed with good guards; Tommy sible in large measure for the success Yarr, a center, of Chinacum, Wash., of those men who participate in the a protege of the learned E. Morris comparatively few minutes of compe­Starrett; Art McManmon, Lowell, tition that the season offers. Mass., a brother of John McManmon It does not include, for example, and looking lots like him; Aubrey Tom Kenneally, the snappy little Williams, Fort Wayne, and George quarterback from Waterbury, Conn.; Shay, Hartford, Conn., good full-back Mike Koken, the promising sophomore material; Bob Brannon, Denison, la., half from Youngstown, Ohio; Norb Ticomey a half; Jack Carberry, a brother of Christman, the quarterback from that Judge Carberry, who is out for an 
source of so much good material. Joe Locke, guard, of Chicago; or end berth; or Vince Whelan, a guard, Green Bay, Wis.; Tom Murphy, one Clarence Kaplan, Owatonna, Minn., a fro m Grant-of the Murphys of Bridgeport, Conn., flashy half who can pack offensive wood , N e w a capable end; George Vlk, Cleveland, threats for any opponent. Jersey, who is a brother of Jim and Joe 
rSw-^ T%1 
*'^ 

Whelan. 
yDni^^0^MK3KfiVfll 
Kock could probably r e ­vise this list 
jSJ 

to the ad­
jQ^E 1
vancement o f 
accuracy, but 
^^^U^^^Et 
these boys are 
^B^^mM all "in there 
fighting." And 
there are 
many others, 
equally s i n -Carideo 
cere, all bene­
p •• •^^^'^B 

fitting from the stimalating effects of supervised physical development 
Bs^^^M^^^^^S ^^^^@si 
and the mental alertness that Sockne Savoldi plunges against Carnegie defense for touchdown. football demands and teaches. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1929 
Recent Books on Biology 
By REVEREND FRANCIS J. WENNINGER, C. S. C. Dean of the College of Science 
(The third of the ALUMNUS series of supffested reading for alumni.) 
Obviously, in the space allowed for this article, it will be impossible to discuss even a small number of the books that form the present literature on biologj'. Attention will, therefore, be confined to such recent books as will interest the average college man who has had some training in biology. A few technical books will be noted for the busy professional man who wants time and oportunity for per­sonal investigation. 

It is still too early to decide definitely, which method of teaching biology is preferable, the old tyiie method, or the new principles method. The best book for those who prefer the type method is Hcgncr's College Zoology, a new edition of which has just been published by Macmillan. Hegner has done his work well. All the old material in the book has been revised and considei-able new matter has been added. The result is a book on systematic zoology that will sat­isfy every demand of the most exacting teacher. The classification has also been i-e\'ised and this is the only feature of the book to which objection might be raised. Here revision seems not to have been improvement. The class of students for whom this book is intended can­not appreciate fine distinctions. It would have been better to have re­tained the older and simpler classifi­cation of the earlier edition. 
The principles method is followed in Principles of Animal Biology by ShuU, Lame and Euthven. In this third edition, the authors reaffirm their conviction that the best approach to biological science is through the presentation of great generalizations and fundamental principles. The in­timate relation of function to struc­ture is emphasized by combining the chapters on morphology and physi­ology of the higher types. The chap­ter on genetics has been revised to include a comprehensive account of linkage and sex linkage. -A. labora­tory manual to accompany the text has been prepared by the authors. The fact that nearly ninety colleges used this text last year seems to indi­cate that the principles method is gaining in favor. 
That there is dissatisfaction with the present text books and the method of presenting their contents to stu­dents seems to be indicated by the 
number of new books that are appear­ing, as well as by the introduction of so-called "orientation courses." The Nature of the World and of Man is a volume which contains the lectures delivered at the University of Chicago during such a course. There are six­teen lectures, all written by profes­sors in the University of Chicago. The authors state in the preface that this "survey course" is given each year to "selected first year students of superior intelligence." The pur­pose of the course is "to give capable students a preliminaiy view of the rich intellectual fields that lie before them so that all their work shall have a large measure of unity and coher­ence, and that they will be able to de­cide early what particular subjects they may wish more thoroughly to explore." The lectures cover a wide range of subjects, each lecture being given by an authoritative author. Astronomy, chemistry, physics, geol­ogy, bacteriology and botany are reviewed. Evolution is the dynamic force recognized in all vital phenom­ena. There are chapters on the Com­ing of Man, on Human Inheritance, on Man from the Point of View of his Development and Structure, and a final chapter on Jlind in Evolution and its Application in all the Sciences. It is a book worth reading, even though much of it will not be accept­ed by the logical thinker. 
Entomology, the study of insects, is receiving as much attention as ever. Anyone who has read the fine series on this subject by Fabre vnll under­stand why this is so. He who has never read a book by this keen ob­server and master stylist is missing an intellectual treat. Let him read only one Fabre book,—The Life of the Spider, for example—and he will be­come an enthusiastic reader of all books on this subject. A good book for general reading is Hoio Insects Live, by Wellhouse. It is written for 
«­
the man who has only a hazy notion about insects, or no notion at all. The common insects are discussed, their life history and their habits. The illustrations are good. 
Nature's Craftsmen, by McCook, is written in the same vein. It is a marvellous record of fascinating facts about ants, wasps, bees, and other in­sects. McCook points out unsuspect­ed marvels at our very doors. The book is written with special attention to the picturesque and unusual in in­sect life and, while free from tech­nical terms, is thoroughly scientific in its treatment. 
Another bok for the beginner is Insect Life, by Comstock. This vol­ume combines elementary information about insects with practical advice about habitats and methods of col­lecting. 
Wasps, Social and Solitary, by George and Elizabeth Peckham, is a more specialized book. It is a record of patient, exact and scientific obser­vation that has all the interest of a romance. John Burroughs wrote of this book, "It opens up a world of Lilliput right at our feet, wherein the little people amuse and delight us with their curious foibles and whim­sicalities, and surprise us with their intelligence and individuality." 
Ants, Bees, and Wasps, by Sir John Lubbock is a recent reprint of a work long out of print. It is a book for all entomologists, in fact, for all lovers of nature, for it can be read by the layman. The writer uses an easy, familiar style that has a peculiar charm. But for all its literaiy ex­cellence, the book is really a record of observations carried on according to the most rigorous scientific canons. .A.nd these observations were not mere chance observations carried on at ran­dom. Lubbock kept an ant's nest un­der constant observation for more than seven years. He applied the same meticulous care to the study of bees and wasps. Though done nearly a century ago, Lubbock's work is still standard. The annotations of Dr. J. 
G. Myers are just what was needed to bi-ing the book up to date. 
The theory of evolution is still re­ceiving attention. It cannot be said 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 
GENERAL BIOLOGY McFarlane, Biology General and Medical W. B. Saunders Co. Wellhouse and Hendrickson, A Brief Course in Biology. Macmillan. Atwood and Heiss, Educational Biology. P. Blakiston Sons and Co. Gibson, Elementary Biology. Longmans Green Co. Small, Beverly and Bailey, Practical Biology. Allyn and Bacon. Woodruff, Foundations of Biology. Macmillan. 
that the new books appearing on this trite subject are hea\'y with new in­formation. Nearly all of them are fairly accurate and complete summar­ies of the evidence for the theory, as far as this is at present known, and all of them are strictly partisan. An author may protest ever so vehement­ly that he is giving a purely objective presentation, a casual reading of his book will show that he is anything but objective. It is, therefore, re­freshing to i-ead Father Barry O'Toole's bold announcement in the preface to his Case Against Evolu­tion. "The present work aims at setting forth the side of the question which it is now the fashion to sup­press. It refuses to be bound by the convention which prescribes that evo­lution shall be leniently criticized." This sounds like a challenge. And the storm of protest that has been raised seems to show that it was un­derstood as such. But most of the Clitics seem to have missed the mark entirely. Only one. Father Kichai'z, 
S. V. D., seems to have hit home. In his exhaustive criticism he makes the charge that "Dr. 'O'Toole is not re­liable when he deals with geologic questions," and, that "he reproduces views of a man who misinterprets the geological and palentological facts on which all evolutionary theories must needs be based." To summarize the whole controversy would take much more space than is allowed by the limits of this article. Suffice it to say that Father O'Toole's book is today the best presentation of the anti-evo­lution views. Father Richarz's charges against it are, however, weighty, and seem never to have been satisfactorily answered. 
The most scholarly book in which unequivocal support is given to the theory of evolution is undoubtedly Lull's Organic Evolution. Lull is pro­fessor of vertebrate paleontology in Yale. His book of 730 pages with 253 illustrations contains about all that is known scientifically about this much debated hypothesis. It is not an easy book to read. It is written in scientific language, for the scien­tist, and presupposes, as every scien­tific discussion of this theory must suppose, an acquaintance with zool­ogy, botany, embryology and paleon­lology. Of the x-eeent histories of biology, only one needs mention. For completeness, accuracy, fairness and erudition, it stands in a class by it­self. This is The History of Biology by Erik Nordenskiold. It appeared last year in an English translation done by Leonard Bucknall Eyre. It has a full bibliography. 
Parker, Elementary Biology. Macmillan. Baitsell, Manual of Biological Foi-ms. Macmillan. 
GENETICS Morgan, Mechanism of Mendclian Heredity. Henry Holt & Co. Davenport, Heredity in Relation to Eugenics. Henry Holt & Co. Colter, Outline of Genetics. University of Chicago Press. Brooks, Laiv of Heredity. John Murphy Co. Crew, The Genetics of Sexuality in Animals. Macmillan. Walter, Genetics. Macmillan. 
Sinnott and Dunn, Principles of Genetics. McGraw Hill Co. SchuU, Heredity. JMcGraw Hill Co. Weissmann, On Heredity. O.xford Univei-sity Press. Altenburg, How We Inherit. Heni-y Holt & Co. Morgan, The Theory of the Gene. Yale University Press. Castle, Genetics and Eugenics. Hai-vard University Press. Babcock and Clausen, Genetics in Relation to Agriculture. McGraw Hill Co. 
MICROSCOPY Griffith-Henfrey, Micrographic Dictionary. John Van Hoorst. Carpenter, The Microscope and Its Revelations. John Churchill & Son. Stokes, Microscopy for Beginners. Harpers. Gosse, Evenings at the Microscope. Society for Promotion of Knowledge. Hogg, History of the Microscope. Geo. Routledge & Son. Gage, The Microscope. Comstock Publishing Co. 
ENTOMOLOGY Rau, Wasps Studies Afield. Princeton University Press. Holland, The Moth Book. Doubleday Page & Co. Holland, The Butterfly Booh: Doubleday Page & Co. Fabre, A ten volume series translated by de Mattos. Dodd Mead & Co. Kellogg, American Insects. Heni-y Holt & Co. Comstock, Insect Life. Appleton. Comstock, The Study of the Insects. Cornell University Press. Comstock, Manual for the Study of Insects. Comstock Publishing Co. McCook, Nature's Craftsmen. Harpers. McCook, Tenants of an Old Farm. Fords, Howard & Hulbert. Peckham, Wasps, Social and Solitary. Houghton Mifflin Co. Wellhouse, How Iiisects Live. Macmillan. Wood, Insects Abroad. Longmans Green Co. Lutz, Fieldbooh of Insects. G. P. Putnam's Sons. Lubbock, Ants, Bees and Wasps. Dutton & Co. Carpenter, Insects, Their Stmcture and Life. Dutton & Co. 
EVOLUTION Conn, Evolution of Today. Putnam's Sons. Eimer, Organic Evolution. Macmillan. Kerr, Evolution. Macmillan. Franck, The Theory of Evolution. Herder. Adami, Medical Contributions to the Study of Evolution. Duckworth. Scott, The Theory of Evolution. Macmillan. Osborn, From the Greeks to Darwin. Macmillan. Osborn, il/e)i of the Old Stone .ige. Scribners. Osborn, The Age of Mammals. Macmillan. Fasten, Origin Through Evolution. Alfred Knopf. Keith, The Antiquity of Man. Williams and Norgate. Kepner, Animals Looking Into the Future. Macmillan. Mason, Creation by Evolution. Macmillan. Lindsey, Textbook of Evolution and Genetics. Macmillan. Newman and Others, The Nature of the World and of Man. Chicago University 
Press. O'Toole, The Case Against Evolution. Macmillan. Lull, Organic Evolution. Macmillan. 
HISTORY Murray, Science and Scientists in the Nineteenth Century. Sheldon Press. Sedwick-Tyler, A Short History of Science. Macmillan. Dana and Others, A Century of Science in America. Yale University Press. Brown and Others, The Development of Science. Yale University Press. Locy, Makers of Biology. Henry Holt & Co. Locy, Main Cun-ents in Zoology. Henry Holt & Co. Van Wagenen, Beacon Lights of Science. Thos. Y. Crowell Co. Nordenskiold, The History of Biology. Alfred A. Knopf. 
78  TH E  NOTR E  DAM E  ALUMNU S  November,  1929  
••••mi *  ••••••••••••••  ••••••••••• I  ••••  I  I  ••••••iiittiiiiuiiOMiiitiiiitiiiimiiniiMi*  IIM*  •  ttiiiti  • B  
ALUMNI  CLUBS  
••Q  
N. Y. CLUB SPONSORS GALA ARMY  GAME  BANQUET.  
NEW  JERSEY  CLUB FIRST  TO EXCEED  DUES  QUOTA.  

ST. JOE VALLEY 
NEW YORK 
An informal dinner dance will be the nucleus of the post-Army Game celebration I n New York City on the night of Nov. 30. The Notre Dame Club of the City of New York has announced a program for the event well in keeping with the magnitude that the game itself has assumed in the football and sports world generally. 
The place is the McAlpin Hotel, Broadway and 34th, the time, six o'clock sharp. The price is six dollars per person, tables seating four, six, eight and ten persons. 
CHICAGO 
That the New York spirit is not 
without its parallel is evidenced by 
several other events planned this fall 
for other Notre Dame centers. Un­
fortunately, the schedule of publica­
tion for the ALUMNUS is such that 
the dinner dance of the Notre Dame 
Club of Chicago, which will follow 
the Southern California game there 
on Nov. 16, will probably be history 
when most of you read this. If so, 
this is what you are missing or have 

• missed— 
A dinner dance in the main dining room of the Stevens Hotel, Chicago, at seven o'clock on the evening of Nov. 16. The football teams of the Universities of Southern California and Notre Dame are guests. Among the individual guests of honor are: Rt. Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago; Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University of Notre Dame! Hon. James J Walker, mayor of New Y'ork City; Howard Jones, coach of the U. 
S. C. eleven, and Knute K. Rockne. 
Eddie Gould, '23, is chairman of the event, assisted by John Stephan, 

ANNUAL FOOTBALL BANQUET DEC. U. 
An interesting event in connection with the U. S. C. game is the nation­wide broadcast through the Armour program of the Notre Dame Glee Club, and Coaches Rockne and Jones of the respective elevens on the Fri­day night preceding the game, Nov. 
15. It is estimated that the chain of stations which will broadcast reaches 12,000,000 families. The time is 9:30 to 10:00 central standard time. 
Fred Steers, '11, chairman of the Chicago Club's luncheon committee, writes: The N. D. Club of Chicago meets every Friday at luncheon in the Ivory Room at Mandel Brothers. These luncheons have proven very popular and we have been fortunate in having many visitors from out of town, among whom are "Little Dutch" Bergman, Hugh A. O'Donnell, 
C. C. Mitchell, Fred Collins, Morris Starrett and Red Hearden. We are always glad to see everybody. Notre Dame men are invited to come up and see the boys. 
Jack Mullen, '28, formerly editor of the Scholastic, has been appointed editor of Quad Wrangles, the new publication of the Chicago Club, suc­
ceeding Tom Barry, '25, who left un­expectedly last month for California Jack is ably qualiiied to carry on the 
splendid work that Tom had begun. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

So many features are already on the program— and it is not yet com­plete—^for the annual football ban­quet sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, that the Editor is dizzy trying to place the correct journalistic valuation on each. 
The time is seven o'clock on the evening of Wednesday December 4. The place is the spacious East Hall of 
Warren Brown, popular and talent­ed sports editor of the Chicago Herald-Examiner, will be the toast­master. 
Among the outstanding guests will be Pat Page, coach at Indiana U.; Jimmy Phelan, '17, coach of Purdue U.; "Navy Bill" Ingram, coach of the 
U. S. Naval Academy, and "Biff" Jones, retiring coach of the U. S. Military Academy. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, will represent the University; Knute K. Rockne, will represent the team, and the squad will be guests and will be introduced during the evening. 
The popular drawing of one of the season's historical footballs, auto­graphed by Rockne and the team, will be repeated. 
The University Glee Club and Band, directed by Joseph Casasanta, '23, will be one of the principal sources of entertainment, with some specialty numbers added. 
An innovation this year that marks a greater co-operation between all agencies working for the good of Notre Dame is the invitation e.x­tended by the Club to the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, that distinguished group of business men who have given their time and ability to the investment of the University's endowment funds in a manner that has been of inestimable value to Notre Dame. 
The Board is composed of Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation, chairman; Miles W. O'Brien of the South Bend Lathe Works, treasurer; Edward N. Hurley, president of the Hurley Machine Co., former chairman of the 
U. S. Shipping Board; Francis J. Reitz, Evansville capitalist; Fred J. Fisher, of the Fisher Body Company; James J. Phelan, of Homblower & 
Nicholas Griffin, Richard Halpin, the University Dining Halls. Tickets Weeks; and the following alumni Thomas Barr}% John Scallan, Thomas this year will be limited to 1,000. members: William P. Breen, '77; Plouff, Norman Barry, George May­Last year both the committee arid the Warren A. Cartier, '87; Byron V. pole, Daniel O'Connor, Joseph J. Sull­dining hall management felt that the Kanaley, '04; Daniel P. Murphy, '95; ivan, John Montague, Frank Walsh, 1,200 tickets sold crowded the hall 
Francis E. Hering, '98; and John P. and James Foley. beyond comfort and efficiency. Gushing, '06. 
In addition, the Club has invited some of the leading business men and industrialists of South Bend to attend the function, including Mr. Erskine in his capacity as president of the Studebaker Corporation; Vincent Bendix, president of the Bendix Avi­ation Corporation; and J. D. Oliver, president of the Oliver Farm Equip­ment Co. 
Bernard VoU, '17, is general chair­man of the banquet this year. Vitus Jones is chairman of the committee on arrangements; Dudley Shively is heading the committee on welcoming guests; Paul Castner, president of the Club, is chairman of the guest com­mittee; Robert McAuliffe is in charge of the committee for publicity, and Michael Donahue is chairman of the tickets committee. 
Tickets can be secured through members of the Club and will be placed on sale at a few central loca­tions in South Bend. The ALUMNUS, from sad current experience, urges all alumni interested to get their tickets before they are all sold out. 
NEW JERSEY Preceding announcements have dealt with outstanding events about to happen. It gives the ALUMNUS great pleasure to treat here an event that has happened. The Notre Dame Club of New Jersey, one of the younger Clubs, is the iirst to complete the quota assigned in the new plan for dues. A check for $100 from a mem­ber of the Club was received on the day which had already marked the completion of the Club quota, placing New Jersey $100 beyond 100%. The significant thing to the -ALUM­NUS is that the quota was raised just as other Clubs were urged to raise their quotas when the plan was launched—^not by heavy levies on a few loyal members, but by a cam­paign to secure the modest subscrip­tions of many. Quotas were actually levied on the old basis of dues, and participation even to that modest ex­tent by any large percentage of the Club members would almost auto­matically achieve the desired end. The result has been the disclosure of the startling lack of interest in the Clubs by their members. It is hoped that New Jersey's success points the way so strongly that the Clubs that are less efficiently organized can follow this splendid example. The success is a tribute to the general program of the Club, a snappy, wholesome, sensible, enter­taining and uplifting program that each year has carried through a vary­
ing series of social meetings, testi­monial dinners, formal and informal gatherings, and that stimulating and exemplary event, the annual Retreat at Morristown. The Club has worked out its annual affairs on the principle of "something of interest to everj' member during the year"—a principle that could be adopted ^vith profit by any of the Clubs. 
The ALUMNUS cannot be too enthusiastic in praise of the New Jersey boys. They have blazed a trail to a long promised land. Now it remains for the other Clubs to avoid the fate of Moses, to come within sight of it only to die. 
FORT WAYNE 

The stamping grounds of the President of the Association reports under separate heading, the N. C. 
C. JI. Convention, this month. 
ARICANSAS 

Father Strassner informed the ALUMNUS last month that Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, is the new Secretary of the Arkansas Club. 
KENTUCKY 

James E. Costello, president of the Louisville Club, was a campus visitor recently, and the Editor was glad to discover that the Emmet J. Costello listed in the unclaimed mail was none other. 
BUFFALO 
Gordon Bennett, Secretary, writes: 

It just occurred to me that you must think the Buffalo Club dead if I did not send you some word soon. The club has been dead, as far as official functions are concerned. Dur­ing the summer we were as inactive as the usual volcano. We have had two meetings this fall, both well at­tended, but nothing important has developed. 
The Club attended the University of Buffalo-Alfred football game, Oct. 
12. It was the first home game for Biff Lee's team and he won, 20-12. Before the game, he had a telegram from Rock wishing him luck; also one from Gus Dorais. If Biff gets any kind of a break at U. B. he will do great things. 
Joe Shea tells me he is going to New York for the Army game, taking a gang with him. Several from here went to Pittsburgh on the 26th. Dr. Bob Burns had a large party organized, and I was able to make the trip. Paul Hoeffler is busy selling insurance for Biff Lee so I don't know if he will go. 
We had an informal stag celebra­tion on Biff's birthday last month in Sherkston, Ontario. Every time some­body suggests an official party he is voted down, and the unofficial substituted. 

TEXAS 

Joe Menger dropped a welcome note not long since, revealing conva­lescence from an attack of blood poisoning. Joe calls attention to the fact that a lot of San Antonio boys are at N. D. this year, and a big Texas smoker on the campus recently confirms it. Joe keeps in pretty close touch with St. Ed's and the many 
C. S. C. alumni there. 
ROCHESTER 

-Another sick man sat up in bed to turn in his usual good report—Gerry Smith. Oct. 2 the Rochester Club, minus Gerry, had about twenty of the members out for an interesting dinner meeting. Plans for the Roches­ter get-togethei" in N. Y. after the Army game were discussed. Joe Flynn expects to have about thirty Rochester people there. 
The Christmas dance this year will be held at the Sagamore Hotel on Dec. 27. Ray Fagan's Keith-Orpheum band will furnish the music. The committees chairmen are: tickets, Jerry Morsches; reception, Jed Ashe; decorations, Ray Mead; tickets at school, Karl Brennan; hosts, Joe Tierney. 
Laio Alumni Notes 

V. Hilton Fall has opened up a new law office in Room 320, First National Bank building, Hammond, Ind. 
John J. Wallace is now practicing law at Calumet City, 111., a town of about 18,000 population. His offices are in the Calumet City State Bank. 
Robert Glasscott was elected City Judge at Michigan City, Ind. He ran on the Republican ticket. 
Albert L. Doyle was elected Judge of Mishawaka, Ind. He ran on the Democratic ticket. He was opposed by Leo Van Tilbury, another Notre Dame alumnus. 
Ray T. Miller of the class of 1914, prosecutor of Cuyahoga County, Cleveland, Ohio, visited the Law School as a guest of Professor Man-ion. He was kind enough to deliver a couple of lectures to the boys. He gave them some practical suggestions. 
Frank Coughlin and Al Hosinski, both Notre Dame men, fought out the Republican and Democratic city judge race in South Bend, Hosinski winning on the Demcicratic ticket, Nov. 5. 
WARRB.V A. CARTIER, C. E. 1887 

• HEN future Freshmen will be seated in the new stadium, perhaps watch­ing a second edition of the immortal Four Horse­men running the ball down the field and plow­ing through the opposing 
line with the aid of another Seven Mules— when another Elder, Eockne, Stuhldreher, Walsh, or Gipp will save the day for the University—the past stadium, the history of old Cartier field, will be but a passing memoiy in their minds. 
Shakespeare said once that all the world was a stage on which we arc merely players. Experience, however, teaches that only a limited number of us are football players. Notre Dame men who have trod the turf ever since the incarnation of foot­ball at the University have immortalized the vei-y turf on which they made and broke records. 
Back in 1886, when the University was still in- her 'teens, her football teams, un­acquainted with the modern-day box office receipts played on an open field. This old system of conducting all varsity sports on such a field was soon found to be unsatis­factoi-y. The burden of supporting the teams rested chiefly on that portion of the student body then residing .in Brownson and Sorin halls. Generous sums from dif­
«S9 

ferent faculty members, however, were all 
that saved the Athletic Association from 
ruin. 

In 1899, after a meeting of various Uni­
versitj' representatives, letters were sent to 
the alumni for aid, but not a bit of help 
was e-xtended the growing University. 
Whether the men addressed had cracked 
ice in their shoes or wore cold water bags 
around their necks is a matter of conjec­
ture. Somehow it seemed that college loy­
alty, which to the alumni then seemed only 
a matter of rooting for the teams when 
they played, was frosted. The contributions 
which wei-e solicited did not even suffice to 
defray the expenses of mailing the letters. 
Despite this set-back, the University authorities in June, 1889, decided to go ahead with the project of building an en­closed field. Those who attended these games would then have to pay admission in order to share expenses. A letter was sent to Warren A. Cartier, C. E., 1887, ask­ing him if he could lend any assistance toward purchasing some land and putting a fence around it. Jlr. Cartier, who re­sided in Ludington, Michigan, at the time, was a member of the firm of Eath and Cartier, and also of the Cartier Lumber Co. He was, to quote from files of the SCHOLAS­TIC of 1900, "i-espected for his abilities and for his genial chai-acter." At the time of his donation he was acting as mayor of his home town. The response to the request overwhelmed University officials. Father Morrissey, who was the president of Notre Dame at that time, was much touched when he read 5Ir. Cartier's reply. The loyal alum­nus not only promised aid, but said that he himself would buy the required lumber for the project, build the necessary fence, and last of all, construct a grandstand. 
A ten acre plot across the street (at that time) to the east of Brownson campus was therefore immediately purchased. 
After careful consideration the ath­
^%r—n^i!^­
Cartier Field—Th 
By ALFRE 
letic management decided to use a kite-shaped track in laying out Cartier field, named after the generous donor. .A. bicycle track—they had bicycle races in the gay nineties—and a foot track circled the proposed football field and a baseball diamond. A grandstand and a clubhouse were to be erected on the southwest side of the field. 
It was soon realized that such a pro­posed structure would soon be inadequate 
A N EARLY VIE^\ 
for the needs of the teams, consequently a subsequent change which resulted in the first Cartier field was therefore adopted. 
This consisted of an enclosed field with entrances located at the north and south­west sides, and two entrances on the west side of the field. Specifications for the field called for a 220 yard straightaway running almost diagonally across the field. On the north of this track was to be situated one of the two football field; with an adjoining grandstand. South of the runway was to be a quarter mile track, banked at the turns so as to pro­vide thrills for the bicyclists of that day. Inside this enclosure was to be located another football field and baseball dia­mond. The grandstand adjacent to this field was built to seat 500 people. 
Special attention was given to develop­ing the quarter-mile track. A Mr. E. 
NATIONAL CHAMPIONS, 1924 W. Moulton of Vanderbilt Universitv, 
Noi-cmho; 192.9 

0/d and the New 
) E. GALL 
who was in charge of the work, gives some interesting facts about the con­struction of the work. There were seven layers of material on the track: 
(1) three inches of coarse cinders, (2) a spreading of earth, (3) three inches of medium size cinders; (4) another spread­ing of earth; (5) two-thirds of an inch of fine cinders and loam mixed; (G) the same; (7) the same only with the cinders still finer. Each layer was sprinkled 
iF CARTIER FIELD 
and rolled and final hardening was ob­tained by using a seven ton roller. 
The University, recognizing the generosity of JIi'. Warren Cartier, had a beautifully mounted and embossed testimonial sent to him. It was etched in blue and gold on white parchment. The decorating and subsequent painting was done by the .A.rt department of Saint Mary's Academy. An old SCHO-LrVSTlc writer says that the fact that the Academy was doing the work "is an as­surrance of the tastefulness with which it was done." 
The scroll embraced the emblems of nearly every field sport played at that time in the American colleges and uni­versities. It read as follows: 
WARREN A. CARTIER, C. E . '87 Greeting from the University of Notre Dame. 
[Reprinteti from SchoI.i:>tic] 

Matey an enclosed field to be used in per­petuity for the athletic games and contests of the students, the University of Notre Dame offers you this assurance of thank­fulness. The gift will be known forever as the Cartier Athletic Field, and your name will be inscribed in the list of eminent bene­factors of Notre Dame. By your generous gift you have earned the gratefulness of the University, and of the students, present and future, to whom you have set a whole­some and conspicuous example by your loy­alty to your Alma Mater and your solici­tude for her welfare. 
This spirited example of generosity was never to be forgotten. It was perhaps this thought which prompted the teams to fight hardest when they had their backs to their own goal line. It was this spirit, too, which spurred on the team, for from 1905 to 1928, twenty-three years, they remained unde­feated on their home field. 
Notre Dame's football history is a chron­icle of brilliant achievement. Her first game was played in 1887 with Michigan. The Michigan team gave Notre Dame a few minutes of preliminary practice before the regular game. Such was Notre Dame's initiation into the sport which in future years produced stars like Gijip, Eichenlaub, Rockne, Dorais, Eggeman, Farley, Salmon, Miller, Luke Kelley, Dimmic, Philbrooke, Cofall, Bachman, Walsh, the Four Horse­men, Kiley and Hering. 
Back in the "good old days," the flying wedge was the most popular form of assault. It was a cross between a steam roller and a 42 centimeter shell. The cen­ter was under no obligation to pass the ball. Whenever he felt moved by a spirit he would tear through the line himself with the whole team concentrating its weight in the small of his back, while the opposition concentrated their weight in the pit of his stomach. Skill was never permitted to en­ter into the limelight along with weight, blood-thirstiness and the desire to trample the opposition into the sod. Those were the days of moustached heroes. In the absence 
GEORGE GIPP 

of the old cheer of "Holdemsonsofnotre­dameh-o-ol-d-dem," the atmosphere was rent by the dull crunch of breaking bones and the occasional thud of a luckless player exploding between the impact of two tons of beef. 
Those days were soon over. Coming do«-n through the years, we find Notre Dame's teams winning countless victories on Cartier field. The terriffic line-plunging of Salmon and Eichenlaub, the uncanny forward passing and drop kicking of Charlie Dorais, the accuracy of "Big John" Eggeman, center; Lou Salmon, captain, '02, '03, '04, the hardest-driving fullback who ever ripped an opposing line to shreds; Eog Riley's stellar performances, "Pop" Fai'ley's runs around ends—all these are still being discussed in the smoke-filled rooms of the students. 
In 1905, Notre Dame scored what was probably the largest score ever made on any field in America. They played the -Ameri­can College of Medicine and Surgery and beat them, 142-0. There were 33 minutes of play, or an average of four and one-third points a minute. Yosts' "hurry-up" system in comparison with that is a mere tortoise. It is said that play was so fast that the only time the spectators saw the players was before the game and during the half. There was a period in which 10 touchdowns were scored in eight minutes, or seven and one-quarter points a minute. 
And then came Gipp—the wonder man 
(Continued on Page S3) 

Grateful for the generosity which 
ANOTHER OLD VIEW OP CARTIER FIELD 
prompted you to bestow on your Alma 
'llllllllllltlllllll 

llllllllillllllllllillll H Q 
Q' 

WOMEN'S CLUB PAGE 
^.. 

To the IVomen V Club of the Alumni Asso­ciatio7i of the University of Notre Dame 
My dear Sister members: 
Recently there came to me official notification of my election to the presidency of the Women's Club of Notre Dame Alumni. 
Following this communication, was a request from Mr. Armstrong, Alum­ni secretary, that a message be pre­pared for the November issue of the -ALUMNUS, a kind of introductory article by me to be followed up by others bearing on the splendid program scheduled for next summer. 

* * * In the first place I would like to make use of this opportunity to tell you all, that I sincerely appreciate the trust you manifest, making choice of me for your president. To be or to have ever been a stu­dent at Notre Dame is certainly an uncommon privilege. To have passed through its doors with the distinction of graduation is a thrilling experience. But to be placed at the head of a body of cultured women from that Univer­sity makes one humble and thought­ful, especially when one succeeds in office to such a president as Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C., who accomplished so much in the first two years of the life of the organization that real worth-while movements have been inaugurated as the result of her efficient planning. And yet, one takes confidence in knowing that success depends rather on the fibre of the members than on the designs of the chosen leader. * * * To work out the program adopted in our last annual meeting will certainly take a year's serious thought. Now since Mr. Armstrong, in enlarging the ALUMNUS has oppor­tunely oflfered us a full page, as though he knew we were going to need more room for discussion, my work seems practically taken care of; for to me, the thing to do is to get expression from the various commit­tees on the matters they have agreed to handle at the meeting in -August. Of course it will be some months before the Sisters research will be in 
a position to give us anj-thing for 
print. In the meantime, therefore, we 
shall find plenty of other material 
interesting to tlie Club. 
* * * 
It was evident from several meet­

ings of the executive officers last 
summer that an earnest effort was 
being made to find out, by careful 
investigation, just what educational 
points should be studied in order to 
meet the needs and satisfy the 
wishes of the Sister students of Notre 
Dame in their work in the class room. 
The result of these meetings and 

the efforts of the officers to fulfill 
the desires of the members was the 
formulation of the program outlined 
in the October ALUMNUS, (p. 44). 
The program mentioned four com­

mittees: two to work on Teacher's 
Requirements; and two, on Textbooks. 
The members of these committees 
were chosen with a ^-iew to their capa­
bility and experience in these subjects 
as well as their knowledge of condi­
tions in their respective states. 
The detailed research of these com­

mittees, appearing in the ALUMNUS 
from time to time, would prepare us 
for the final summary to be presented 
on the 1930 program. 
As laborers in the field of education we shall be grateful to have these matters correctly checked up with little or no effort on our part. And having read the statistical and detailed report in the ALUMNUS, we shall be on tip-toe for the inter­pretative report at the August gathering. 
* « * 

The program will also present several other papers and discussions. The subjects to be handled have been assigned to Sisters who have not merely theories to offer, but who, in their special lines, are presenting the findings of actual study and experience. 
* * * 

To add further to the unusual Interest of the program, the meeting next summer •will be thrown open not only to graduates but to all Sisters at the University. 
....Q 
This decision is the result of the 

broad vision of the Very Reverend 
Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Presi­
dent of Notre Dame University, who 
suggested it, remarking something to 
the effect that it was to be deplored 
that the benefits of so much intellec­
tual work should be limited to so few. 
* * * 
As I think of you all extending a 

far-reaching influence over our young 
Catholic boys and girls, my mind 
turns with real affection to the school, 
our o\vn Notre Dame, that has made 
it possible for us, as teaching Sisters, 
to meet the demands of the educa­
tional world to-day, and to do this in 
surroundings that brace the spirit as 
well as invigorate the mind. 
We are all grateful to Notre Dame. 

We are proud of our Alma Mater. 
We hope that the working out of our 
program during the year will be 
worthy of the scholarly spirit of our 
great University. 
Sister Mary Fidelis, 0. S. U. 
Notre Dame '2-5. 

CARTBER FIELD—THE OLD AND THE NEW 
(Continued from Page 81) 

and the most picturesque and out­standing player of Notre Dame foot­ball history. His memorable feet still tread the immortal turf on Cartier. The echoing thud of his cleats is still drumming in the minds of present-day Notre Dame halfbacks. The team of that year, 1920, and the team of 1924, the year of the Four Horsemen and the consequent national cham­pions were hailed as the greatest teams to be turned loose on Cartier Field. Their bewildering aerial at­tack, brilliancy in offensive and de­fensive play, and herculean line-plunging stand out like searing words burned on a human soul. 
Through it all can be seen the misty spirit of Cartier hovering over the teams. 
The Juggler announces a forthcom­ing Old Grads Number and asks for alumni contributions. 
Qn llllltttllllllllllllll 
"B 
EDITORIAL 

r
THE CARNEGIE REPORT HE long-awaited report of the Carnegie Foundation, fruit of three and a half years investigation among 130 colleges and universities was exploded on the public last month. But instead of the depth bomb that it was supposed to be, unearthing nation-wide scandals of incredible magnitude, it merely sizzled and popped in the press for a few days like a five cent pack of iire-crackers on the Fourth. Generalities were many. Specific charges were also many, but the investigators nullified the effect of their work to a great extent by apparently missing the important underlying points to be gained by such an investigation in their eagerness to cry "Wolf" over a number of what may be termed harmless pets that have been brought to the academic hearths, tamed and made to bear some of the burdens of education. Notre Dame was damned, after a fashion, with faint praise. The tone of the report bearing on us seemed to be that so successful an exponent of football in all its phases, including the particular bete noire of large gate receipts, as Notre Dame, must essentially have dipped its academic garments in the mud of the gridiron. But after an inten­sive investigation here, during which a candid investigator had the good grace to admit that in few other places had the complete records been made so accessible, the worst the Foundation could do was to charge Notre Dame with making vague promises to "take care of" prospective athletes The e.xtent to which Notre Dame athletes are "taken care of" can be determined by a very brief conver­sation with Mr. Eockne. But comment should be slow to decry the value of the Foundation's report. Undoubtedly the original purpose was a sincere desire to protect amateur athletics in the colleges. And undoubtedly the report has aroused every­where a renewed consciousness of the essential relation of education to the program of college sport. The analysis of the situation which catches the pendulum between the idealists on the side of the Founda­tion report, and the materialists on the side of over-commercialized athletics, will be the analysis of greatest practical worth to the colleges. 
r
"LOCAL BOYS MAKE GOOD" HAT much abused expression is not without its merit. And it gives the Editor a genuine thrill to 
pick up papers of all kinds and see familiar faces 
looking out from the midst of flattering accompanying 
texts. Just recently have appeared: 
Bishop Finnigan, '10, already a power in the Hierarchy; 
Ambrose O'Connell, '07, head of the Marquette Club activi­
ties in New York City; Charley Butter^vorth, '24, starring 
again this season in 'Sweet Adeline," one of Broadway's 
hits; William F. Montavon, '00, whose knighting by the 
Holy Father was treated last issue; Bob Proctor, '04, 
national vice-president of the F. 0. E.; and a dozen prom­
inent N. D. men in the coaching profession—Adam Walsh, 
who is expected to revitalize Yale football; Don Miller at 
Ohio State; Jimmy Crowley and Judge Carberry at Mich­
igan State College; Harry Stnhldreher, who is writing a 
weekly sports review for the N. C. W. C. during the Fall; 
and others almost daily. 
lllllltlllMIIIIIIII>|I|M||||||I||||||||||||t|t||t||||||||||||||||tlltltlllllllllllllllllt)lllltlllllM)ll)ltlMllllllllQ 
"THE FIGHTING IRISH" 
By T. VINCENT MCINTIRE in the Scholastic 
rriHE term "Fighting Irish" has been applied to Notre 
I Dame football teams for years. It first attached 
itself years ago when the school, comparatively un­
known, sent its athletic team aAvay to play in another city. 
Sports writers used the term in an ironical, unsympathetic 
way. At that time "Fighting Irish" held no glory or 
prestige. It was given by sports writers in the same sense 
that the crowd would give a head of cabbage to a "ham" 
actor. 

The years passed swiftly and the little school began to take a place in the sports world. Journalists suddenly woke to find the cabbage transformed into a beautiful bouquet of shamrocks. The "ham" actor no longer took his bow to an indifferent audience but answered the curtain to an enthusiastic crowd. "Fighting Irish" took on a new meaning. The unkno\vn of a few years past had boldly taken a place among the leaders. The unkind appellation became symbolic of the struggle for supremacy in the field. 
"Fighting Irish!" Recall the associations of the term. Think of John Mitchell, Robert Emmett, Wolf Tone, or Edward Fitzgerald, fighting Irish all! Review the struggles of an indomitable race crushed under the cruel heel of an empire's boot. What does the term imply? Does it not recall the Easter of 1916 when sixteen "fighting Irish" were backed against a wall in Dublin barracks and shot to death? Does it not recall the gallant struggle for existence while famine and foreign law clutched savagely at the throats of a stricken but unconqnered Ireland? 
The term while given in irony has become our heritage. The implications of "Fighting Irish" are too much like our own struggles for recognition to be so easily ignored. We are criticized on every side for using the term but the critics gave us the name. They too, see that it has more than one application. Too late they seek to retract what they gave in irony a few years ago. Realizing that the name "Fighting Irish" has taken a significance they never dreamed of, they now seek to disparage us again by other terms. "Wandering Nomads" we are called. "Ramblers," "Galloping Gaels," and "Fighting Irish-Italians" are made use of to describe us. None of the terms stick. We hope they will not. One by one the sports writers wiU come back grudgingly to the old name. 
The ethnologists object to the name on the grounds that the Irish are in the minority on the football team. The Savoldis, Carideos, and the Schwartz's, they say, are not Irish, and so are not fighting Irish. For that matter Yale teams are not."Bulldogs," Wisconsin players are not "Badg­ers," or Northwestern "Wildcats." Our name is merely an identifying one which has been glorified on many a field of battle. So truly does it represent us that we are unwilling to part Arith it. With the Moynihans, the Leahys, the Cannons, and the Collins' to justify the name, let us go down through history as the "Fighting Irish" of Notre Dame. The term is our legacy, won by grim unyielding struggle. The name honors us. Let us honor the name. And we are sure the Eichenlaubs and the Rocknes, the Eggemans and the Stuhldrehers of the past will be with us; and, too, the Carideos and the Schwartz's and the Savoldis of the present generation. (Reprinted by request.) 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1929 
N. D. Leaders in National Council of Catholic Men 
Alumni of the University of Notre Dame were active in arrange­ments for and in the program of the most successful convention of the National Council of Catholic Men, held in Fort WajTie, ^vith head­quarters at the Fort Wayne Com­munity center, for three days begin­ning Sunday, October 20. 
The N. C. C. M. is one of the two lay organizations of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, the other being the National Council of Catholic Women. Since these organi­zations include in their affiliations almost every other kind of Catholic lay body in the country, including Holy Name societies, councils of the Knights of Columbus, sodalities and other organizations, their importance in Catholic programs is outstanding. 
Representation at the convention included leading Catholic laymen and members of the hierarchy from all parts of the country, many Notre Dame alumni being included in this body. Almost 400 representatives were present, the greatest number in the history of the conventions of this body. In addjtion, there were many visitors who accompanied the dele­gates, most sessions being filled to capacitj'. The Shrine auditorium at Fort Wayne, which accommodates two thousand people, was filled for the mass meeting Sunday afternoon; the banquet hall at the Catholic Com­munity center Tuesday night, seated SOO people, the capacity for such a function, and the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception was taxed to the doors for the pontifical high mass Sunday morning. 
Officials of the council also praised local committeemen for the excellence of the program, which included such members of the hierarchy as the Most Rev. Pietro Fumasoni-Biondi, apostolic delegate to the United States; Most Rev. John T. McNicholas, 
0. P., S. T. M., archbishop of Cincin­nati; Rt. Rev. Joseph Schrembs, D. D., bishop of Cleveland, and Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, D. D., bishop of Fort Wayne. Among the laymen were Admiral William S. Benson, Quin O'Brien, John P. Poland, secretary of the Catholic Truth Society of Eng­land, William P. Breen and William 
P. Montavon. 
The Fort Wayne press was also lib­eral in reporting the affair, more space having been given the conven­tion than any previous convention in the history of the council. 
Being president of the University, the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Ph.D., naturally heads the list of Notre Dame men on the program of the convention. Father O'Donnell was scheduled to talk on "The Cath­olic Advantage in Education" at the Tuesday morning session, but due to the illness of Knute K. Rockne, who was to appear on the banquet pro­gram. Father O'Donnell was heard in the evening at the banquet. He spoke extemporaneously, telling of the re­ligious life of the students at the Uni­vei'sity, and was said by many to have been the most interesting speak­er on this part of the program. 
The banquet program also included Admiral Benson, a Laetare medallist, and a member of the ad\isory board of the College of Commerce. Admiral Ben­son was first president o f th e council. He spoke on "What Catho­lics 0 w e to Williajn P. Brccn Others." Wil­liam P. Breen, another Notre Dame man, spoke on "An Ancient Catholic Post," at the banquet, and was introduced by Harry 
G. Hogan, as toastmaster, an alumnus. 
Notre Dame chairmen during the sessions included John W. Eggeman, and . Byron Hayes. Notre Dame speakers i n ­eluded William 
F. Montavon, who is direc­tor of the legal depart­ment of the 
N. C. C. M., and who was heard on "The John W. Eggeman 
New Status of the Holy See as Fixed by the Treaty and Concordat between the Holy See and Italy"; Hon. James E. Deery, of Indianapolis, secretary of the council, who talked on "The Importance of Perpetuating Historical Records of Catholic Patriotic Service"; Charles 
M. Niezer, first president of the Catholic Community Center Associa­tion, who spoke on "The Purpose of a Center," and others from N. D. 
For instance it was said that Francis M. Crowley, director of the bureau of education, of the N. C. W. C, who talked on "Some Problems that Confront Catholic Education," 
and Quin O'Brien, famous Chicago 
lawyer, writer and orator, who talked 
at the mass meeting on "The Lay­
man's Zero Hour," are both former 
students, if not alumni. Records on 
these and other men had been sent to 
Washington headquarters at the time 
this article was written. 
It is known, however, that five members of the executive committee which planned the convention, are alumni, including William P. Breen, John W. Eggeman, Charles M. Niezer. Harrj' G. Hogan and Harry W. Flan­nery. The publicity committee, headed by Flannery, also included another Notre Dame man in Clifford B. Ward, of the News-Sentinel, and a Catholic reporter known to almost every Notre Dame man and declared by Father O'Donnell in his talk to be "as near an alumnus of the university as any woman can be"—^Helen Mae Irwin, of the Journal-Gazette. 
In many respects, the most success­ful convention of the N. C. C. M., may have been said to have been a Notre Dame affair; at least, Notre Dame men were most active in its preparation and its sessions. 
Unfavorable Pioblicity 

Several press stories unfavorable to Notre Dame have appeared recently. One of the outstanding was that which appeared in a Chicago paper on the day of the Wisconsin game. The editors of the paper proved the article was the work of a copy-reader which had not passed through the editor's desk, and were as perturbed about the affair as the University. Another was an article on the Uni­versity Band which appeared in a Madison column, and which was copied verbatim by a Milwaukee columnist. This was largely the com­ment of immature thought and ignor­ance of fact, and was not seiious enough to worry Notre Dame or its friends. These things must be ex­pected when the University receives as much notice in the press as it does. It only remains for the alumni to be alert—a favorable condition made evi­dent by reactions from the above criticisms—and to inform themselves so that they may defend the Uni­versity interests where a criticism is unjust and serious enough to require an answer. Rather frequently, con­troversy gives the critic a false worth and alumni should use caution in an­swering some of the foolish comments that appear. 
November, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Status of 1929-30 Dues 
(CLASSES) 
As of November 1, 1929 
ALUMNI 

Year Quota Contributed Deficit 
Before 1880 $ 290 $105 § 185 1880 30 20 10 1881 20 0 20 1882 20 0 20 1883 65 50 15 1884 50 5 45 1885 50 5 45 1886 55 10 45 1887 70 55 15 1888 75 10 65 1S89 105 15 90 1890 95 130 (Surplus)* 1891 75 10 65 1892 140 45 95 1893 130 40 90 1894 200 35 165 1895 275 65 210 1896 115 25 90 1897 120 130 (Surplus)* 1898 120 25 95 1899 140 20 120 1900 140 85 55 1901 175 55 120 1902 240 75 165 1903 160 160 (100% ..) *. 1904 395 250 145 1905 120 45 75 1906 375 105 270 1907 260 35 225 1908 385 110 275 1909 415 45 370 1910 310 125 185 1911 765 160 605 1912 600 175 425 1913 710 285 425 1914 845 89 756 
1915 775 205 ' 570 1916 905 230 675 1917 845 267 578 1918 600 70 530 
1919 435 120 315 1920 875 168 707 1921 1200 130 1070 1922 810 230 580 1923 925 282 643 1924 650 340 310 1925 775 577 198 1926 710 606 104 1927 900 567 333 1928 950 775 175 1929 1050 760 290 
The significance of the above figures seems to lie in the fact that the younger 
Classes, 1925 and later, contributing almost exclusively in five dollar payments, stand very fair -without exception to complete their quotas, while the older dasses, with smaller quotas and with members much more favorably situated 
to contribute, are far from their goals. The Class quotas, like the Club quotas, are really based on a per capita assessment lower than the annual five dollars of recent years. 
So that, instead of showing the unreasonableness of the Alumni OflBce, the 
quotas show the apalling lack of support given by Clubs and Classes in years 
past. (* These exemplaiy and much appreciated amounts, equal to or in excess of the Class quota, are, however, largely attributable to sizeable individual gifts, and do not relieve the non-contributing members of the Classes of their individual obligation.) 
I Deaths | 
The ALUMNUS learns %vith sin­cere regret of the death on November 5 of FRANCIS M. KEOUGH, C.E. 1894, who died at his home in Leraont, 111., after an illness of several months. Mr. Keough was a varsity football star during his career at Notre Dame, and was captain of the football teams of '93-'94 and '94-'95. 
Following his course at Notre Dame, Mr. Keough studied law in Chicago. In 1909 he was first elected president of the village of Lemont and had he completed his present term, the tenth, he would have served in that capacity for twenty years. In addition to being head of the board, he was attorney for Lemont township, the Lemont high school, and the Lemont district school. 
Mr. Keough leaves his widow, Mrs. Anna Keough, a son, George, and one brother and a sister. He was buried in Cass cemetery, Du Page county. 
The Ofiice regrets to announce the return of a copy of the ALUMNUS from HENRY L. DEHNEE, B.S. '76, Cascade, Iowa, with "deceased" marked on the envelope. No other de­tails are available at this time. 
Word has been received of the death of ALBERT KACHUR, B.S. in E.E. '01. Mr. Kachur died of typhoid fever in the Phillippines, where for the past two years he had been a teacher of science in the East Side High School, Manila. Mr. Kachur was bom in Michigan City, Ind., and was educated there before coming to Notre Dame. Twelve years ago he accepted a government teach­ing position in the Phillippines. He is survived by his wife, one daughter, aged 8, a brother George of Niles, Mich., and a sister Elizabeth of Mich­igan City. The body was buried in the Phillippines. 
The Notre Dame Club of Arkansas has notified the ALUMNUS of the death last month of CLIFTON E. MUEPHY, a student at Notre Dame in 1902, a resident of Pine Bluff. 
The ALUMNUS extends the sym­pathy of the Association to ED­WARD FALLON, '26, whose father, Andrew J. Fallon, died last month. 
86 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1929 
C or three years, six months, ten days the Central Pacific Railroad, working east from Sacramento, and the Union Pacific Railroad, building west from Omaha, raced to reach the construction limits granted by their charters. In western Utah the grades met, passed. After disputes, the roads agreed on Promontory Sum­mit* as the meeting place. As TIME would have reported the epochal joining ceremonies, had TIME been published May 17, 1869: 
.. . To east and west stretched single lines of newly laid track, a S6-foot gap between. At 8:15 a.m. the first Central Pacific train arrived, passenger-packed. From the east two trains lumbered over Union Pacific's track, loaded with U. P. officials, U. S. dignitaries. Chinamen were leveling the road-bed, placing ties. At 11:15, ex-Governor Leland Stanford, president of Central Pacific, arrived with a distin­guished party from California, his special train's en­gine gaily decorated with small flags and ribbons. 
Soon Chiefs of Construction Read of Union Pacific, Strawbridge of Central Pacific placed the last tie— 
*10K>.8 mUrs west of Omaha, 690 miles east of Sacramento. 
of California laurel, finely polished, inscribed: "The last tie laid on the completion of the Pacific Railroad, May 10, 1869." Engine 119 of Union Pacific and en­gine Jupiter of Central Pacific moved closer. The crowd, a small knot of himianity against a vast semi-desert background, stood back. Prayer was offered by the venerable Rev. Todd of Massachusetts. Then General Grenville M. Dodge (U. P.'s valiant Chief Engineer), and ex-Governor Leland Stanford spoke briefly. "Three cheers rent the air for the U. S., for the Railroads, for President Grant, for the laborers, for the capitalists. 
Dr. Harkness of Sacramento presented Governor Stanford a spike of pure gold. Hon. S. A. Tuttle handed him a silver spike saying: "To the iron of the East, and the gold of the West, Nevada adds her link of silver to span the continent and weld the oceans." Arizona's Governor SpofFord contributed another gold spike; Montana's representative, another silver. 
Vice President Thomas C. Durant of Union Pacific stood on the north side of the laurel tie. President Stanford of Central Pacific on the south. Reverently they placed the four spikes, then with silver hammers struck them in place as an electric spark was sent through wires east and west, making magnetized clap­pers of small bells ring in every telegraph office in the land. So cheering crowds knew the Pacific Railroad was built. 
TIME 
The Weekly Newsmagcaine 

NEW YORK . CHICAGO 205 East 42nd Street, New York City 
November, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Mr. Fallon was a prominent publish­er, his company dealing in law books. He was a great friend of the leading jurists of New York and was promi­nent in Democratic circles. Mr. Fal­lon is survived by his wife, Mrs. Agnes Gunn Fallon, a daughter Ber­nadette, and two sons, John and Ed­ward. « .> 
I Births I « •:• Mr. and Mrs. RAY J. EICHEN­LAUB ('15), Columbus, Ohio, are the parents of RUPERT MILLS EICH­ENLAUB, born September 25. Ray and Mrs. Eichenlaub are now the parents of five boys. The following "Autobiography" reached the Office five-foot shelf re­cently: I was boi-n at 8:45 on the morning of Oct. 18, 1929, in Provi­dence Hospital, Detroit, Mich., of poor but honest pai-ents, weight nine pounds, five and a half ounces, blue eyes, curly hair. See me in person to hear further instalments. (The Publishers were Ruth and EDDIE MARCUS ('16). Mr. and Mi-s. WALTER METZ­GER ('25) announce the birth of Nancy Joan on Nov. 4, 1929, weight 7 pounds. Mr. and Mrs. KARL SCHAETTLE ('25) announce the birth of a son, Karl Thomas, on Oct. 24, 1929. Mr. and Mrs. OSWALD G. GEN­lESSE ('26) announce the birth of James Lewis Geniesse on June 18, 1929, weight 7 pounds, 7 ounces. AL CONNOLLY ('26) writes from Dayton where he is organizing Day­ton's Boys Club, to announce the ar­rival of Robert Connolly, the second son, born in Boston on Sept. 26. Al's brother-in-law, HECTOR MAC NEIL, is the father of a son born during the summer as announced in the ALUM­NUS. -Al writes that there's nothing like the Boy Guidance Course at Notre Dame. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE W. DOH­ERTY ('27) announce the birth of George William on Sept. 11, 1929, weight 10 pounds, dM ounces, in Chicago. 
r Mamages 
Miss Almira Murphy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Murphy of Springfield, 111., and CHARLES A. CORCORAN, '17, Joliet, were mar­ried by Rev. W. P. CORCORAN, C.S.C, in the Log Chapel of the Uni­versity on Oct. 10. Mr. and Mrs. Corcoran left for a motor trip in the East and will return to reside in 
Springfield, 111., where Mr. Corcoran 
is connected with the State govern­
ment. Mr. Corcoran was a member 
of the varsity baseball teams 1914-16. 
-Among the wholesale marriages of 

the summer, a few important ones 
slipped by unreported. One of the 
odd cases was that of JERRY 
JONES, '22, who was married on 
June 15 to Miss Marion Cahill of 
Dixon. WILLAED JONES was 
Jerry's best man. Miss Olive Town­
send attending Miss Cahill. Jeri-y's 
brother, HERB JONES, '27, and Mrs. 
Jones' brother. Bob Cahill, are both 
on the campus, and the dope was on 
hand before and after, but just es­
caped this column. 
ALFONSO A. SCOTT was married in St. Andrew's Church, Pasadena, Calif., on October 28. Al's brother. Father George Scott, performed the ceremony. The bride was Miss Marion McPartland, whose home was formerly in St. John's, New Bruns­wick. Cardinal Gasparri cabled a Papal benediction to Al and Mrs. Scott. 
-Among more recent weddings of the same illustrious Class was that of THOMAS SPENCER MCC-ABE ('22) who was married in Ludlow, III., to Miss Elizabeth Corbett, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Cor­bett. The bride is a graduate of the Donovan Memorial School, Rantoul, and the school of nursing at Mercy Hospital, Chicago. After a short honeymoon, the McCabe household will be established in Chicago where Spence is counsel for the G. M. Fore­man Trust Co. 
THOMAS FRANCIS LEAHY, '24, was married on Sept. 28 in St. Peter's Church, Chillicothe, Ohio, to Miss Eugenie Elizabeth Wenis, daughter of Mr. Edwin S. Wenis, in a most beau­tiful and impressive ceremony that included among the ushers JOSEPH RIGNEY, '28, and among the bride's attendants, Mrs. GEORGE DRIS­COLL of Chillicothe, and Miss Cecilia Blasius of Logan, Ohio, names famil­iar to Notre Dame. After a wedding trip in Florida and the South, Tom and Mrs. Leahy will reside in Boston, where he is connected with the Better Business Bureau. 
JOHN ALOYSIUS PURCELL, '26, and Miss Agnes Rita Kirby, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. James J. Kirby, were married on Oct. 22 in Sacred Heart Church, Newark, N. J., but to date no other details of the wedding have been received. 
LOUIS G. FRANKE, '26, and Miss Nina Liljeberg were married in St. Gregory's Church, Chicago, on Aug­ust 17,—a fact hitherto unknown to the ALUMNUS but quickly passed on. BILL DORGAN, a classmate, was best man. Louis is with the Graybar Electric Co. in Chicago. 

Another overlooked summer wed­ding—the ALUMNUS is going to stai't a clipping service from society pages next summer: 
WILLIAM P. CLARKE, JR., '27, Toledo, and Miss Dorothy Louise Loshbough, South Bend, took place at St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, June 18. REV. JOHN F. O'HAR-A performed the ceremony. Sliss Cath­erine Clarke, sister of the groom, and BERNARD LOSHBOUGH, '29, brother of the bride, were the at­tendants. Bill and Mrs. Clarke live at the Hudson Apts., 308 Lincoln, Toledo, Ohio. 
J. CHARLES McCOY, '27, a mem­ber of the faculty of the University, and Miss Josephine Powers, daughter of Mrs. Elizabeth Powers, Buffalo, were married in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, last month. RICHARD GREENE, '28, also a member of the faculty, and Miss Henrietta Wiezorek were the attendants. REV. F. M. GASSENSfflTH, C.S.C, performed the ceremony. After Nov. 15, Mac and Mrs. McCoy will be at home at 238 Tonti Ave., South Bend. 
CLYDE SCHAJIEL, '27, and Miss Ruth Onetto, of Buffalo, were mar­ried in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, Oct. 30, by REV. WILLIAM MOLONY, C.S.C. Mr. and Mrs. JULIUS McCOY were the attendants. 
Miss Dorothy Sullivan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Marter, South Bend, and SEBASTIAN THOlLiS BERNER, '27, were mar­ried in the Log Chapel, Tuesday, Oct. 
29. REV. B. J. ILL, C.S.C, per­formed the ceremony. BERNARD MALONEY, '27, was best man and the bride was attended by her sister. Sebastian and Mrs. Bemer attended the Georgia Tech-N. D. game on their honeymoon and after Nov. 25 wiVL be at home at 1230 E. Victoria St. 
r Personals ] 
• Before 1880 
Mark M. Foote, 501 City Hall, Chicago Illinois. 

TOM LIEB, '23, while with the team in Atlanta for the Ga. Tech game, had the pleasure of meeting MATTHEW BARROW TORBETT, '73, who is an accountant and auditor. 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1929 
P. 0. Box 731, Atlanta. Mr. Torbett was much pleased with the outcome of the game. 
1880-1885 Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst. of Tech, Hoboken, N. J. 
DR. S. P. TERRY, '83, is still at the New Highland Hotel, Martins­ville, Ind., suffering somewhat from rheumatism. He writes that REV. CHARLES THIELE, Fort Wayne, and REV. JAMES SOLON, De Kalb, m., had both visited him since he came there in May, and he was ex­pecting W. J. JICCARTHY, Cincin­ntai, ALBERT ZAHM, Washington, and PROF. ANDERSON, Hoboken, to visit him when he •svrote. He writes that he may have to remain in Mar­tinsville through the winter. 
1900 Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois. 
The personal with reference to Nat MacDougall which appeared in last month's ALUBINUS, called up recol­lections of JOHN W. EGGEMAN, president of the National Alumni Association, who back in 1900 was one of the shot putters on the track team. John standing six foot iive. 
also gave MacDougall the starting push in the races, and the power that he exerted in giving MacDougall a start always put Nat out in front, and in the dashes he was never overtaken. 
JOSEPH P. SHIEL is a Special 

Representative of several publications, 
and has been active in Chicago in the 
advertising field for the past twenty 
years. 
WILLLA.M A. MONAHAN has 

returned to Chicago to resume the 
practice of law after several years 
residence in Philadelphia. 
DR. JOSEPH F. DUANE has just 

moved into a new home in Peoria. He 
• was one of the dash men of the Track Team, and has not lost his zest for physical training. He has a regula­tion tennis court and basket-ball court on his lawn which he floods in the winter for skating and hockey, and to give his guests comfort and cheer he has built a big outdoor fireplace, and bums pine knots. Joe has attained a very high standing in the medical profession in Peoria. 
FRANCIS H. MCKEEVEE is pres­ident of the Investors Security Com­pany, 10 South LaSalle Street, Chicago. He takes particular pride in the fact that his son Hugh, a member of the St. George High School band, is playing the same Clarinet that Frank played when he was a member of the Notre Dame Band in the days of Professor Pres­ton, of revered memory. 
1902 

Peter P. McElligott, 320 W. 23rd St, New York City. 
W. G. FERSTEL, formeriy with the 
I. C, has taken over new and impor­tant duties as traffic manager of the Continental Air Service, 2420 S. Park­way, Chicago, a new organization which is planning air service to the various large cities of the country. 
1903 

Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
ALEXIS COQUILIARD, direct descendant of the first student at Notre Dame, was recently elected vice-president of the Indiana Ass'n. of Insurance Agents. 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart, Ind. 

DR. MAURICE B. KEADY has opened new offices in New York City, at 230 Park Ave. 
• ••••••IMI)«lllltl)lltl>litlllltiiiii  iimimiuiiiiiiiiiiiintfi^  
ALUMNI  -­ 
Cheer! Cheer I for Old Notre Dame  
The veiy latest in novelties—& musical powder box that plays the "Notre Dame Victory March" when the top is removed. A splendid Christmas Gift. The one illus­trated is priced at $4.75  
A larger box comes at $5.50. Postage will be paid on anyceived before December 15th.   orders  re­ 
SOUTH ^END WATCH fO RETAIL GIFT STORE 172 O M1SHA.WAKA . A.VE.. SOUT H BEN D  
Blliitiiiiii  iiiiiiiiiiMiMtiiuiiiMUiiiiiniiitiiiMiiittiitiiaii)  iiiiitititiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiii  •iiiQ  

1910 Quota was a statement of the older 1920 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio. 
JAMES E. DEERY, vice-presi dent of the Association, was reelected national secretary of the National Council of Catholic Men at the recent convention in Fort Wayne. 
1912 
Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, Sandusky, Ohio. 

CYRIL J. CUKEAN, 100 E. 45th St., New York City, was one of the unfortunate victims that paid a fruit­less visit by mail to the Alumni Office about Army tickets. As Father Miltner teaches, ex nihilo, nihil est. 
1914 Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of Chicago, Chicago, III. 

HON. MICHAEL F. GIRTEN, El. '14, has moved his law offices in Chi­cago to 1837 Burnham Bldg. 
REV. M. S. BECKER is now locat­ed at Cloutierville, La. 
1916 

T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg, Hammond, Indiana. 
GROVER JHLLER wrote not long since perturbed that the 1916 Class 
0­
Building and Endowment situation. It isn't, which however, does not min­imize the importance of the deficit in the new plan. 
WILLIAM E. BRADBURY, Robin­son, 111., was the recent recipient of a lot of favorable publicity in con­nection with the valuable service he has rendered disabled veterans of the World War in securing compensation. Bill has secured §250,000 worth of compensation for the wounded veter­ans who have come to him and does not charge them for the service. He himself was injured in a training camp and forced to accept a disability discharge. His acquaintance while in the hospital with the boys, who were coming back wounded, interested him in the problem of compensation. 
EUGENE R. McBRIDE, Ph.B. '16, Pittsburgh, is the proud sponsor of two nephews, to wit: Thomas Ed­mund Meade, '32, and Richard Eu­gene Meade, '33, now on the campus. He sojourned in our midst on Regis­tration Day and was (once more) bawled out by Father Doremus for getting out of line and was nearly pinched by an Irish cop who insisted that he was trying to register out of his turn. 
Leo a Ward, 1012 Black Bldg, Los Angdes, Calif. My dear Jim: 
You will pardon the belated offer­ing of your operative No. x5 or what­ever number you have affixed. This season it seems to be stylish to have blood clots which become infected and not to be outdone by anyone, even Knute Rockne with his blood clots, I have proceeded to get one which has kept me away from the office for a few days. Consequently, the apparent inattention to the secretarial duties. For the present I will be only able to give you such information as came to me for the past few months. 
In going over the list alphabetically we find that THOMAS J. BEACOM of the Class of '20, erstwhile Vice-President of the Wheeler, Kelly & Wagner .Trust Co. of Wichita, Kan­sas, undertook a few days of rest and surcease in our fair clime. He was first seen at the amateur golf tourna­ment at Del Monte Beach. He later appeared in the office of Mr. EU­GENE KENNEDY, originally of the Class of 1920, who is assistant trust officer of the Bank of Italy National Trust and Savings Association. Ken­nedy and Beacom compared notes as to the relative merits of their trust 
..g 

THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND, OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Designers of the New Notre Dame Stadium 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-four Stadiums and Athletic Fields Fourteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
,.S 

Q 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1929 
EJ.. 

Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
i CLEVELAND: Mondays—year round luncheon meetings—the Allerton i : —seventy-five cents. i 
i NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, I 
I 22 East 38th Street. | 
I CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—^luncheon meetings—Ivory Room, Mandel's. | 
I DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 | 
i Monroe Avenue. i 
I PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—luncheon—Hotel Heni-y. I 
i LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—luncheon—12:15—University Club. I 
I CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon— | I Broadway Hotel. i I NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New-I I ark Athletic Club. | I INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University 1 i Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. | 
I KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different | I locations. Call Edward Pfeiflfer, 407 Martin Brown Arcade, f I Louisville. | 
I WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, I I December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. E. Kamp, I I 1207 Wells Street. | 
I ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. | 
I Call Paul Castner, Studebaker Corporation, South Bend. | 
I DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. I 
I JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 | I Ruby Street, for details. I I NOETHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift | 
i Hotel, San Francisco. i 
I FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. | I Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. | 
I ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com-I I merce Private Dining Room. I 
I SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraffs. I 
gNtinNniiiniiMiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiii • iiiiiiiiiitiiiniittiiiiiiiitiiiiiii IIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllltllllUIIHIIHIMl 
B 

companies and trust departments. 
EALPH BERGMAN, according to DICK SWIFT, is enjoying the fruits of his labors and collecting royalties from washing machine patents. In my business correspondence it be­came necessary to communicate with some thriving barrister in the City of South Bend. ED DORAN from that place, reports plenty of progress and success in business of the type which takes him out of the City of South Bend a lot. LEO HASSEN­AUEE is practicing law in Chicago. ED. P. (Slip) MADIGAN and MAUEICE (Clipper) SIHTH are carrying on a feud between Santa Clara University and St. Mary's Uni­versity, Slip being at St. Mary's and Clipper at Santa Clara. Clipper is startling the world, or at least that part of the world at the coast by the inauguration of what he terms the King Alphonse Shift, being somewhat new in name if not in fact. Slip is enjoying a very successful year with 
his team, who have already met the University of California team in a nothing to nothing tie. Slip boasts a freshman team comprised of twenty­tvvo high school football captains and no doubt will have another successful year. 
Occasionally we hear from EM­METT ROHYANS, who by the way, managed to take in all of the Notre Dame football games. He is practic­ing law in his home town of Fort Wayne, Indiana. OSCAR L. SIDEN­FADEN is in the engineering depart­ment of the Edison Company of Cali­fornia, endeavoring to provide suffi­cient power to keep all of the lights that Edison invented with the proper degree of illuminating power. DICK SWIFT of Davenport, Iowa, spent a good portion of the summer in Den­ver, Colorado, and Los Angeles, Cali­fornia. Mrs. Swift's family resides in Los Angeles and Dick was becom­ing acquainted with his wife's rela­tions. He spent a portion of his time at Long Beach, California, talking over old times with HARRY DENNY of the Class of '21, and Harry's part­ner, EMMETT MULHOLLAND, of the Class of '16, both of whom are 
practicing law in Long Beach, Cali­fornia. 
TOM TOBIN is now the Reverend Thomas J, Tobin, Chancellor of the Diocese in Portland. He never fails to come south to see Notre Dame in their annual game with Southern California. Incidentally, Father Tom wears his laurels extremely -well and the formal long frock coat and ever-present cane are quite becoming. 
November, 1929 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Los Angeles of late seems to be the 

mecca of student tourists, many of 
Avhom have decided to stay. JOE 
SUTTNEE, Class of '19, is deputy 
corpoi-ation commissioner of the State 
of California with headquarters in 
Los Angeles. JOSEPH L KANE, old 
student of 1920, is progressing in the 
new movietone or squawky industry. 
In the parlance of Hollywood, he is a 
sound-mixer for Warner Brothers, 
but when his name appears on the 
screen, he is known as a sound tech­
nician. At last, Joe has a job that 
appeals to him. He is able to tell 
both the stars and directors when to 
lieep quiet without fear of any come­
back. The word of the sound-mixer 
is law on the movie sets under the 
present regime. Incidentally, the 
movies have called a couple more of 
the illustrious Alumni, VERNON 
"Te.x" EICKARD, who has been en­
gaged to make a series of sound pic­
tures, and WALTER O'KEEFE who 
delights his audiences by telling them 
of the time he was master of cere­
monies in Tex Guinan's night club 
when Mabel Willebrandt chose to 
close that world famous establishment 
and that he did not object so much to 
her closing the night club because it 
made a lot of people who got their 
altar wine at night go to their respec­
tive churches for their libations, but 
he did object to Mrs. Willebrandt 
telling the poor misguided public that 
the St. Louis Cardinals were a part 
of the official papal family. He said 
such narrow-mindedness would have 
to stop. Walter is writing songs for 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, and if anyone 
chooses to call on Walter, they must 
first present proper credentials to his 
demon valet who seems to be able to 
resist all comers. 
DEL EDMONDSON is leading a 

varied and diversified career. He is 
a professor of dramatics at the Uni­
versity of Southern California, is the 
theatrical manager of the magazine 
known as Game and Gossip, which is 
known as the \Vanitij Fair of the 
West, and is also professor of English 
in Glendale High School. Del lives in 
Hollywood and with all his varied 
occupations has little time to acquaint 
himself with the sins of that fair and 
much maligned city. 
Friends of FRANK L. (Monk) 

MARSHALL may be interested in 
knowing that he has also recently 
moved to California with his family, 
consisting of Mrs. Marshall and two 
children. The move was necessitated 
by the health of the children. Frank 
is selling bonds and after leaving 
•^otre Dame he went to the University 
of Iowa and quite naturally being from Iowa, he would settle in South­ern California, with the rest of the population from that state. • 
For the present, this comprises all of the information which I have been able to glean from my various opera­tives which I have dispatched along the highways and by\vay3. I sin­cerely hope that in the very near fu­ture I will be in receipt of answers to the various letters which I have sent out, to members of the Class of '20. I am not at all proud of the showing made by your correspondent in the first two issues of the ALUM­NUS and promise that in the future I will send you some information for each issue. It may not be printable and your Editor may cut it all, but, that won't be my fault. I have not seen a statement of the policy of the publication to ascertain just how much scandal will be accepted. Until such time as I do, however, I will for­ward the information as it comes. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., 
Rochester, N. Y. 

EDDIE PFEIFFER and his cousin CORNIE are general agents for the Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Company in Louisville, Ky. Eddie says that Kentucky colonels will be extinct in a few years because he has a daughter, and likewise PHIL DANT and FRANK BLOEMER. 
A hearty welcome to San Diego is promised by THURMOND MUDD to all Notre Dame men visiting that city. Thurmond is in the dry goods business in San Diego, but Tia Juana is not so far away. 
EARL WALSH, former hard hit­ting varsity half-back, is now secre­tary of the Iowa Catholic High School Association with headquarters at Des Moines, Iowa. Earl is busy develoi>­ing football players. 
BUCK SHAW, football tackle ex­traordinary in '19, '20 and '21, is now coaching at Santa Clara University \vith "CLIPPER" SMITH, replacing Adam Walsh who moved to Yale. 
Does anybody know if MIKE FAHEY, DOC HUGHES and BILL MINER are with the Byrd Antarctic expedition? 
BILL CASTELLINI was publicity director of the dedication ceremonies of the Ohio River for the official open­ing of the $125,000,000 government improvements by President Hoover on October 15. 
We all knew JIMMIE JONES was 
iiiitiiiiiiiiimiiiiinnininiiiiiiniiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiwiUMiiniMniMiiinniiiniiiMtnH 
Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
Manufacturei's of 
Tumbling Mill Stars Emeiy Wheel Dressers Sand Blast Nozzles 

for Malleable Iron 
Annealing Pots 
Foundries. 

Miscellaneous White Iron Castings 
A. F. (ADFRIES,'16 
Vice- Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 
for Gray Iron Foundries 
.B 

QiMHiiniiin iMii iiiiiiiMiiiMi iiiiiimi" iiiiiiiiiiiuMi""" 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November, 1929 
destined to a great success and Jim­
mie is on his way. He is now Assis­
tant Corporation Counsel for the 
City of Rochester. Attention! STEVE 
CARJIODY. 
GENE KENNEDY is in charge of 
the escrow department of the Bank 
of Italy's main office, Los Angeles. 
E. J. HILKERT was a visitor on the campus recently, missing the Editor however. Emile is practicing law at 522 Luhrs Bldg., Phoeni.x, Ariz., and is said to have put on forty pounds since inhaling the famous Arizona air. 
1923 
Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd., 
South Bend, Ind. 
BRUCE HOLMBERG wrote from a new address (for the Office at least) recently—8415 Wabash Ave., Chicago. 
J. F. KENNEDY dropped a recent note from New Hampton, la. 
"The Z Corporation announces the appointment of MR. JOHN G. BYRNE as assistant to the president. Mr. Byrne was formely with Ramp Buildings Corporation and D'Humy Managament, Inc." The Z Corpora­tion seems to specialize in garage storing construction, and is located at 30 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. 
1924 James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
JIM HAYES must be lost some­where in that new subway develop­ment that is going to make Fifth Ave. safe for pedestrians. 
1925 
John W. Scallan, Pullman Co., 79 W. 
Adams St., Chicago, HI. 
SCALL.4.N writes that CHARLES STANHOPE, formerly with the Chi Herex in the advertising department, is now sales manager for the Electric Fui-nace-Man Co. of Milwaukee, and will be at the 1925 Reunion in June. 
. ADAM WALSH is still getting the big ^\•rite-ups as a boost to Yale foot­ball since Yale's sensational victories over Army and Dartmouth. 
A letter from NORB SKELLEY located him at Box G09, Oklahoma City, Okla., still with the U. S. Radia­tor Co. Norb saw CHET WYNNE'S Creighton outfit play a couple of the Oklahoma teams this year. 
1926 Gerald W. Hayes, 3117 Washington St., Chicago, HI. 
You know, of course, I spent the month of September in the East. It was a great joy. There is no need of my telling you how delightfully active the N. D. men are in New Jer­sey. Under the guiding powers of EDDIE DUGGAN, now TOM FAR­RELL, JAKE PURCELL, and good old faithful JOE BYRNE, the club progresses and prospers. I am dis­appointed, Jim, in not seeing more complete accounts of their acti\'ities in the ALUSINUS, but I guess that is merely because they have neglected thus far to appoint a scribe . . . But to take up the class news. 
The New Jersey Club retreat at Mt. St. Katherine's in Morristown af­forded our group an excellent oppor­tunity for a little get-together. EDDIE DUGGAN, TOM FAREELL, JIM SILVER, B. K. WINGERTER, JAKE PURCELL, ED HARGAN and H.AYES all bathed spiritually over that week-end. The missing knights of our class were BURKE, ROBERT­SON, TOM RYAN, and TOM SHERI­DAN, and JACK ADAMS. EDDIE BURKE, incidentally, is now located in Portland, Maine, where he is man­aging the branch office for the C. I. T. Company. HAL ROBERTSON, of course, you see frequently in South Bend. TOM RYAN and TOM SHER­IDAN are holding down the nether­most and uppermost poles of Jersey, respectively, but we should have more accurate mention of them. Jack Adams I failed to see in the East, but I had a nice little chat with him here at the Wisconsin game. Jack promised a letter which must have strayed in transit. Jack also told me of JIM WHELAN'S wedding, the de­tails of which were to have been contained in his note. Perhaps you have them 
EDDIE DUGGAN is making a real reputation for himself and for the Notre Dame Law School at the Jer­sey Bar. Eddie is connected with Heine and Laird in Newark. I'm sure we shall have more good news about Eddie in a month or two. Tom Ryan, too, also made an admirable crossing of the Jersey Bar last year. TOM FARRELL is now on the Pacific Coast. At present Tom is in Port­land, Oregon, mth NORB KAVA­NAUGH. Would that I were there! (Father Miller taught me Cicero and the Bennet's in the Prep school.) Norb has made no promises but we are going to have a letter from him for the December issue. JIM SIL­VER is laboring for the coming bar examinaltons in Newark and Amboy. Jim, without a doubt, will be full-fledged shortly. Wingerter still operates for the G. M. A. C. outfit in 
New York. Wink made my return West pleasurable by accompanying me to Chicago. We had an afternoon in Buffalo, some time of which we spent with JOE SHEA. Joe is still with Statlers. His office is on the mezzanine—^for those going to Buf­falo! Joe tells us about PHIL DONO­VAN'S wonderful success with the Burrough's Adding Machine Co. Phil has also made Buffalo his home. Wink spent only a few hours in Chicago before going South to the Blooming­ton game and Cincinnati. He prom­ised to return for a real visit but failed us. Cincinnati must be an en­chanting town. 
JAKE PURCELL is the hero of the month. The heroine—and mighty valiant she must be—^was Miss Agnes Ivirby of the Oranges. It all occur­red on October twenty-second. Jake will send you his new address just as soon as he returns from the wedding trip. 
ED HARGAN is now working for the Central Union Trust Company in New York and continues to live in Belleville. Ed has also promised a letter for one of the coming issues. 
My last week-end in the East was spent at Saranac Lake with JIM WALDRON. Tom Farrell, FRANK MILBAUER and I drove up to see the Monk and played around in the old fashion. Jim is in great condi­tion and before long will be back with all of us again. 
The Chicago gang carries on as usual— even though many of them have entered the ranks of the so-called benedicts. During the summer GEORGE HARTNETT, JIMMIE RO­NAN, STEVE PIETROWICZ, LEW CODY—all fell by the wayside. One envies the wiiole crowd of them— they're all so darned lucky. 

Among those who are not allowed to think of any union except to medi­cine: At Northwestern, JIM STACK, URBAN GEBHARD, ED ICEARNS and I are still fighting. Jim and Geb are slowing into the station. They finish at Christmas time. Their destinies are as yet not fully known. Jim has received enviable appoint­ments to hospitals, both here and in New York. By the next issue I will be able to give you his new address. In speaking about Gebhard I must take back the prelude to this para­graph. His engagement was recently announced to Miss Elva Schumacher of Milwaukee. It's just another break for Gebhard! At present he is e.\teming at St. Joseph's Hospital here, where both DAVE MURPHY, 
.c<^. 

"A Growing Public Sentiment for the Use of Stone" 
T
HESE are the words of the president of the Chicago South Park Board in explaining why his board insisted upon using natural stone throughout in the rehabilitation of Chicago's famous Fine Arts Building, relic of the World's Fair. "I have been converted by public opin' ion," he said. 
"Public opinion" explains why the finest commercial structiires of today are being faced with Indiana Limestone. The public has expressed its opinion of this beautiful natural stone and they have "said it with dollars." 
Indiana Limestone structures rent quickly to desirable tenants. People seem eager to work and live in stone buildings. More prizes for excellence of design have been awarded to buildings faced with Indiana Limestone than to those faced with all other building materials combined. 
Whatever type of building you may be planning, find out about its cost if built of Indiana Limestone. A free illustrated booklet showing various types of buildings, mailed on request, or hterature showing residences. Address Dept. 823, Service Bureau, Bedford, Indiana. 
Fountain, Chicago Daiiy News BuiUing, Chicago, VL Hoioinrd e^Koo^ Architects. Hegenuin'Hams Ccmpan^, BuiUers. 
INDIANA LIMESTONE COMPANY 
Qeneral Offices: Bedford, Indiana Executive Offices: Tribune Tower, Chicago 
What Part of My Income Can I Lay Aside for Life Insurance ? 
C
ONCRETE FACTS speak louder than words. 
Here is the actual pro­gram of a young man, 28, married, with two children. His income is $5,000 a yecir. 
The aimual premiums cunount to about $600, leaving a balance of $4,400 for the support of his family, an easy proposition for ambitious young parents looking to the future. 
What does he get for his $600? 
An estate of $30,000, $5,000 to be paid in cash at his death, the rest held in trust to pay $ 100 a month to hb widow during her life­time, the remaining prin­cipal to go to the children after her death. 
If you eire interested in arranging an estate for yourself, let us help you make your plans to suit your own needs. 
INQUIRY BUREAU 
LiFC INSURANCE COMPA am BOXTON. Hitt'rwmpTa 
197 CXARENDON ST.. BOSTON. MASS. 
1 am interested in building an estate along the Uncs described in your advertisement. Please send me further information. 
Name 
Address .. 
I A.C. 
'25, and EDDIE ANDERSON, '22, are serving their interneships. JOHN TUOHY had a word from MIKE MURRAY during the summer. Mike spent the summer abroad before entering his clinical years at Harvard. There is no word of "WAR" KANE now; and BERT COUGHLIN seems 
to be lost. DUCKY MILLER has returned to the Northwestern Law School. LES 
LOVIER is not here this year to care for him. Of course, we do not know exactly where Les is, but I have heard that he is studying in New Haven. I met FRANK BON in Chi­cago on his way back to Wyoming after his graduation from Han-ard Law School. We do not know what Frank is following now but certainly he should have time to give us an account of his stewardship. During the summer, too, I ran into DAN BR.ADY in Chicago. Dan likes his work in Pittsburgh and is prospering. There were plans to spend some good days with HERB BURT during the vacation months, but this new racket I'm in—head waiter in a cafeteria!— is confining. I'm about to beg Herb's forgiveness. Burt, incidentally, holds a leading place among the bond sales­men in this state. And speaking of running into people, there was JIM GLYNN at the Wisconsin game. I believe it is the first time I had seen Jim since graduation. He is practic­ing Law in Terre Haute. JIM KEL­LEGHAN was also at the game. Of course, Jim Kelleghan is located in Chicago with the Wall St. Journal, but his family duties and his resi­dence way out on the North side keep him from us. JOHN MCMULLEN and ART BIDWELL, I see from time to time. They are both well and struggling with potatoes and novel­ties respectively. GEORGE "Dutch" O'DE.A. has transferred his allegiance 
to Detroit. He'll have to give us a report of his activities soon. 
It was a severe shock to receive a letter from one of the boys a few days ago. JOE WAGNER came across. Joe writes from Tiffin, Ohio, —practically the only letter I have received from any of the boys in the past two years. Joe is now bottling Coca Cola with Wagner Bros, and resides at 10 W. Perry St., Tiffin. I expect to see him at the U. S. C. game. 
I intend with a little co-operation of the boys, to cover the whole class this year. Two or three letters a month will make me work. For the December issue, for instance, I am expecting news from BUD BARR, JOE BROUSS.ARD and MAL KNAUS. Bud promised me a letter at Commencement but Joe and Male know nothing about my anticipations. The three of them owe it to the class to come out from the shade. 
A letter to the Editor from JERRY MORSCHES adds some dope. Jerry was at the Carnegie Tech game and saw ELMER LAYDEN, JOE BACH, RED EDWARDS, JOHN OTOOLE, BILL FOOHEY, JOE SHEA, MONK RYAN, etc. He also had a letter from DOC GELSON, who was about to move into his new home. 
AL CONNOLLY, besides appearing in the birth columns in a responsible position, is managing directir of the Boys' Club of Dayton, Dayton, 0. 
BOB MURPHY has sent in a couple of high-powered ideas to the Editor that show that he is balding his own with the Roche Adv. Co., Straus Bldg., Chicago. 
1927 
Edmund De Clercq, 8200 S. Ellis Ave., Chicago, III., Secretary. 
CLARENCE RUDDY at last re­ports was drumming up business for a lecture by PAT MANION in Aurora, where Clarence is practicing Pat's profitable dictums in the Old Second Nat'l Bank Bldg. 
PAT COHEN dropped a hurried note from 32 N. Pleasant St., Taun­ton, Mass., asking for Army tickets. Pat says he has been up in Nova Scotia and this is his first chance to see a Notre Dame team play. 
JIM BROWN wrote ART H.A.LEY about some tickets and brought out a new address, 1790 Broadway, New-York City. Jim and ART HOH­MANN are living together in N. Y. 
C. Jim is with the U. S. Rubber Ex­port Co. Ltd. and Art ^vith the Natl Ass'n of Credit Men. 
JAMES J. O'CONNOR, working for the Otis Elevator Co. in Yonkers, keeps the subway warm after mid­night on the return trip from Brook­lyn, Jim Brown's letter adds—pretty serious case. 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., Secretary. 
The class of '28 was well repre­sented in Chicago the day of the Wis­consin game. The first one of the old gang which the Class Secretary met was none other than BOB KIR­BY. Bob had left his undertaking establishment in Indianapolis to lead a few yells at Soldier Field. Bob had as an assistant ED. MC­SWEENEY the new advertising man at Sears Roebuck. JOE GRIFFIN, of track and political fame was on the reception committee. Joe is kept busy as an insurance adjustor and attending De Paul Law. Our Presi­dent JACK FREDERICK was in Detroit University renewing old acquaintances. JOE MORRISSEY was along also and reports a success­ful season for Pontiac High. VINCE DUCEY seemed to be all over the 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllilll»ll 
iiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinitiiiitiiiittiiitiiitittiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiniiiiiiiitiiitiiiitiniKiiiiiinttnittiiiiiiiituiiiiiti 
0.... 
e 

The Notre Dame Alumnus Business and Professional Directory 
itimilllliMIMIIillin It !••• illUIIII Ulllltilllflillln S 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
Established 1911 
COOPER-KANALEY and CO. 
FIRST MORTGAGE INVESTJIENTS 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Tel. Franklin 0353. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. | 
POLAR ICE & FUEL I COMPANY 
John (Ike) Voedlsch, '27 | 
Ass't Manager f 
••lilllllilllllll)lll>lllllliliiililiiiil>iiiiilili>""ll>*Hlllllllllii z 
ALUMNI OF OTHER I SCHOOLS I Use It to Great |Advantage. i 
THE ALUMNUSIs Read by 5,000 N. D.Alumni.  | | [  
:  •iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiti  
YOUR N. D. FRIENDS Want to Do Business With You.  

This is One of Your First Opportunities to Profit as Alumni. 
•iiiiiiiii = 
THE NEW ALUMNUS is a Better but Costlier Magazine. 
•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiii II iiiiiiiiiii mill 
Send Copy for the Next Nine Issues to 
J. E. ARMSTRONG Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Unclaimed Mail 

(From time to time, lists like tMs will appear. You will confer a favor on these men and the Association by sending in their present address. The Association has not the facilities for tracing lost members.) 
Dacey, Albert E.—'93 Daily, John F.—'12 Daley, John C—'24 Danch, Julius J.—'25 Dawson, George J.—^"23 DeCourcey, Edward D.—'21 Degen, Gerard T.—'10 DeMott, John E.—'25 Derrick, Clarence J.—'14 Desmond, Joseph L.—^'24 Devers, Jerome A.—'24 Dickerson, Sydney J.—'85 Dillon, Rev. Francis J.—'13 Donahue, Patrick W.—'27 Donnelly, Edwin C—'20 Donovan, Frank W.—'26 Donovan, Wm. J.—'07 Dore, JEchael—'86-8; El. '26 Duarte, Adolph M.—'09 Duffey, Joseph E.—'22 Dunbar, Robin E.—'92 Dunlea, Leo C—'23 Dunne, John F.—'28 Durch, Bernard J.—'13 Durrell, Louis F.—'15 Dwan, Allan—'07 Dwan, Dr. Leo C—'04 Easley, Donald J.—'21 Echenique, Manuel V.—'21 Ehinger, Elmo J.—'24 Eigholz, otto—'16 Elward, Allen H.—'16 Endres, John J.—'26 Enriquez, Benjamin R.—^"04 Epstein, Bernard L.—'27 Ester, Harry E.—'25 Ewing, Edward S.—'88 Ewing, Thomas—^"69 Falvey, Edw. (M.D.)—'98 Farragher, John—'07 Farrell, Joseph E.—'84 Feeney, John J.—^'94 Feldott, Joseph—'18 Ficks, Albert, Jr.—'23 Finch, Wilmer—'16 
Finigan, Charles T.—'15 Finn, Rev. W. J.—'14 Fish, James L.—'11 Fish, William A.—'12 Fitzgerald, George G.—'28 Fitzgerald, William T.—'23 Flynn, Arthur A.—'00 Flynn, E. Miles—'00 Flynn, Milton—'00 Fogartv, John T—'23 Fogarty, Wm. S.—'23 Foley, Daniel F.—'23 Foley, Charles B.—'22 
(To 66 continuedS) 
DAYTON, OHIO 1 
luiHtiiittinitti S 
JOSEPHS. MURPHY,'11 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 309-15 Mutual Home BIdg. Dayton, Ohio 
Murphy & Murphy 
•llllillliiltlllllllittllilMllMlllttiiiiiii 

I Rate f 
I for the Next Nine Issues i I $22.50 [ 
Z '•tlllll'IIDtlllitlllDIIMIIlniiiiiiiiitlitlllltlllillllllllllMlintt : 
I Don't Under-estimate f I the Scope of the I 1 ALUMNUS. 1 
•iiiiiitiiiitiii iiiiiiillliittiiiiiiilltilitiiiitiiauiiutiitiiiiiiin — 
Many Commissions have been lost to N, D. Men through lack of this very Imowledge. 
illliillllimiKMIIIItlllinllllltittlt' 

THIS PAGE and several like it should be filled Next Month. 
DON'T WAIT to see who else is in. 
Thafs what is Wrong Now! 

liuiiiniiiiiit 
I IF YOU I CAN USE BUSINESS I Take one of these Cards. Z UIMUIIMIIIMMtMtttllltll tltMllltMMttlllHMUHMUllUMMtH* 
I Rate is payable by month, I in advance, or in June. 
SEND YOUR COPY. 

Qtlllllltllltllltllllllltllltllilllillllllllilllllt ••llillllillllillNllltlllillllilll •llililllillllllll 
Stevens at one time. Every time I turned around I would see the illus­trious bond salesman. ED. MC­GAULEY has returned to Chicago to join the idle rich, together with JOE BRANNON. JACK SHEEDY was in from Pittsburgh but he was a hard man to locate that week-end. The Class Secretarj' did his best to locate him but he simply could hot be found for some reason or other. JOE L.A.NGTON was very much present in his good old Peoria spirit. BOB IvNOI who is with the United Thea­ters Corporation, was on hand with JACK CAN1Z.A.R0 to welcome the architects. "West Virginia" DA\aS was reported present but he managed to evade the Secretary for some reason or other. Among the Chicago fellows present was FR.A.NK CREA­DON who failed to give the Secre­tai-w any dope on himself. RAY' MUL­LIGAN has joined ^^NCE WALSH at Western Electric. All in all, it was a great week-end and the fellows asked to be remembered to all the gang. I hope to have a long column next time telling you all about the '28 reunion to be held the night be­fore the So. California game. A few of the '28 fellows have answered the call of Broadway. JACK FAG.-VN 
who has been with the Clarage Fan Company in their Chicago office has been transferred to their New Y^ork office. BILL CRONIN has deserted LaSalle Street for Wall Street. 
A few stray notes from Pittsburgh informs us that CH.A.RLIE TOTTEN is with the Jokes & Laughlin Steel Corporation. TURK MEINERT is back at Pitt. Law. Rumor has it that DOC FORGE e.xpects to be in South Bend, November 26th, to pull a nice surprise. I guess Doc forgets that there are still a few '28 men about who will do their best to see that the affair is not too quiet. 
1929 Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
ELMER T. WEIBEL, 664 W. 9th St., Erie, Pa., has entered the school of medicine of Western Reserve U., Cleveland, as a freshman this year. 
W. J. "BUD" McMORROW writes from Syracuse, where he is with the sales promotion department of the 
Johns-Mansville  Corp.,  715  State  
Tower Bldg.  
LOUIS  J. REGAN  is  in  Great  

Falls, Mont., P. 0. Bo.x 1731, with the Henry L. Doherty Co. Louis says he has heard only from EMMETT McCABE, who" is working in Erie, 
•Pa., and from JOE SULLIVAN, who is poring over law cases in Chicago. 
Louis would like to hear from RED 
LOUGHRAN, BILL SIDENFADEN, 
JOHNNY DORGAN, FREDDY 
HAW, JOHNNY MALLOY and some 
of the old Sorin bunch of '29. 
BERNIE LOSHBOUGH is with L. 
H. Heenan, an architect, in Pontiac, Jlich., and is living with LOUIS CONROY and JOE MORRISSEY, at Auburn Manor, Apt. 307, 101 Auburn Ave., Pontiac. 
DICK NOVAK is in Washington, 
D. C, 1420 21st St. FR.A.NK CON­LEY, BUD MARICEY and BOB NEW­BOLD are at the same address and are attending George Washington U. law school. JACK GREY and DAVE FIELDS, 2700 13th St., N. W., Wash­ington, D. C, are attending George­town law school. 
JOSEPH D'AUTREMONT is at 
502 N. Jleridian St., Lebanon, Ind., 
and is working for the Big Four. 
JOE aiULHALL is with the Mc­
Call Lumber Co., Femdell, Mich. 

JERRY McGILL is with the U. S. Department of Justice in Washing­ton. 
LOUIS OBLIGATO is rapidly be­coming a well-liked native son in South Bend. 
JOSEPH KELLY, Endicott, N. Y., stopped off at the Office last month on a trip to Chicago. Joe lost his mother last summer and is at present living at home where he is in the coal business with his father. He was at the Wisconsin game in Chicago. 
LARRY MOORE and FRANK DOAN are living together at 412 W. llOth St., New York City. FR.A.NK PENDERGAST, '27, BERNIE CAR­EER, '28, and BILL CRONIN (of the Chicago Cronins), '28, live next door. "ART CANTY, LARRY CULLINEY, WALT L.A.YNE, JOHN McMAHON, JIM CONMEY, WALT GREER, MURRAY YOUNG, JIM FITZ­PATRICK all live near here and we usually meet at Notre Dame Church. I've met BOB McVETY, BILL O'REILLY, ED WALSH, LOU THORNTON, JACK LAVELLE, PAT CANNY, CONNIE OCHOA, ZIMMERMAN and a host of others around the city." 
FRANK SIUDZINSKI is with the Daibj Neics in Chicago. 
TOM HAPPER is with BOB PROCTOR, famous N. D. lawyer of '04, in the Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Ind. 
JOE McNAMAHA and BILL CRAIG are setting Indianapolis on its dramatic ears with the writing, di­recting and all other responsible fea­tures of "The Kick-Off"—written by Mac and directed by Bill. 
••Q 
Hello, Fellows! 
It's Chicago this year—^Why not enj oy the best while here for the game. 

I Cooper - Carlton Hotel] 
I  Hyle  Park  Blvd. at 53rd St.  |  
I  CHICAGO  I  
South Shores Lines to  
53rd St. Station  

400 ROOMS : 400 BATHS §2.50 per day and up 
American League Headquarters 
Home of the Crystal Ballroom 

I F. H. SWEENEY, MANAGER i Notre Dame 
I A. N. MAHER, AssT. MANAGER I Colorado School of Mines 
QiiiiiniiiiiMitiiiiiii I Ill"' iiiiiii II 




