The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
ir­

S-his book is not %m be ^^^®" frore the Library 
\ 
i 
Cleben 

^0. ^ebtn 1933 
Sketched h Xrallace' in the "OubUridtb. smartest supper cluh\ 

—each glorious day on the 
"The end of a perfect day"—how de­lightful to discover a day that's perfect from start to finish . . . how doubly delightful to know that there's another day ahead that will be as full of gay good times! On the LEVIATHAN, as on all United States Liners, you will find travel that's joyously different — good times that are planned in the American manner, by Americans—and enjoyed with Americans. 
When there's something doing every hour—how the hours fly! . . . when you're enjoying the luxuries that Amer­icans know so well how to give... the extra comforts and spacious cabins, wide decks and large inviting public rooms—whatagoodtimeyoucan have! 
You'll find on the ships that fly your own flag swift, understanding service by stewards who speak your own lan­guage . . . delicious treats prepared by chefs who know how to suit your own exaaing taste. Yes, on United States Liners you'll find every privilege any ship can offer, plus the enjoyment of the American standard of living—high­est in the world. 
For fiill information see your local agent. He knows travel values. 


LEVIATHAN 
Services to GERMANY, Ireland, England and France 
LEVIATHAN—America's largest ship 

MANHATTAN WASHINGTON' 
The modern "Yankee Clippers." Fastesr Cabin Liners in the world. *Maiaen Voyage May to 
Ptes. ROOSEVELT Pres. HARDING 
And four staunch American Merchant Liners one class only... very moderate rates. 

CONSIDER THIS Eighty-five cents of the dollar paid for fireight and transportation on American ships is spent in America... It's "good business" to have the fiin of traveling under your own flag. 
U. S. LINES 
-/^i\
FOLLOW THE TREND TO AMERICAN .S H I P.<; SSSSS AMERICAN MERCHANT LINES 
ROOSEVELT STEAMSHIP CO., Inc-Gra. ylsmU No. 1 Broadway, New York • Agents everywhere 
COMMENT 
REUNIONS! 

1928 is well under way. A local committee, with form letters and per­sonal letters and representatives in aU the major centers of '28 popula­tion, has the ball rolling. 
1926-5-4-3, Dix reunionists, ought not to need any encouragement to re­turn. The Class Secretaries, Dr. Hayes, Jack Scallan, and Jim "Em­pire State" Hayes, have been so spar­ing in their conduct of news columns of this publication that Reunions will be the first news of Classmates most of the Class in each instance will have received. While Paul Cast­ner, '23 Secretary, gets around per­sonally, the column has not been the voluminous 'inu luminous asset to Class contact it might have been and as the Senior group of the Reunion, the '23 boys will also have something to learn. 
1908, the Silver Reunion Class, has the added advantage of adjoining the Dix Classes of 1907-6-5-4-. These groups number a sufficient number of veterans in every alumni activity to provide a leadership in the entire Commencement. 
1883 is the first oO-Year Reunion Class to have a sizeable group of ac­tive alumni. Distance is a handicap, but one which, if overcome, will lend a great deal to the '33 Commence­ment. 
1885-6-7-8 are the older Dix group. Included in these years are the first football team, the present Provincial of the Congregation, and numerous other figures of interest and tradi­tion to Notre Dame. 
1933 is" the Silver Anniversary of the permanent reorganization of the Alumni Association. The majority of the alumni present at that time are alive and active at present. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTSONG, '25, Editor 
The mnsazine is published monthly durine the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence shoald be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 

THE ALUMNIASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President CLARENCE MANION, '22 
President TIJIOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 ­
First Vice-President JAMES E . SANFORD, '15 --­
Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director JOHN F . O'CONNEIX, '13 -­
Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 ---Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 Director GEORGE HIGGINS, '32 ---Director FRANK H. HAYES, '14 --' -(ex officio) Director 
Remember, June 2-3-4, 1933. District Governors are urged to at­tend this Council ex officio. In con­
Rooms will be allotted in at least junction with the financial organiza­the two major halls of the present tion of the Association, a problem campus, zoned according to Classes. and a plan will in all probability be 
submitted at this meeting for the 
The Alunmi Banquet will bring the consideration of the Clubs, as well as eloquence of President Manion in a the results and the analysis of them most significant presidential report, in the field of student contact, along and will, we hope, mark the return with other such activities as the pro­to active administration of the Rev. posed national hook-up for the Uni­Charles L, O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, in versal Notre Dame Night of 1934. the annual President's Address to the Alumni. 
DUES quence to all alumni as well as to the In view of the serious financial con­University will be discussed. dition of the Association, alunmi, and 
Clubs as such, and the Governors, are urged to attend the 1933 Commence­ment so that a discussion of a pro­gram and essential curtailment can be Matters of Concern and conse­
CLUBS had with a representative number of 

Elect or appoint NOW your repre­alumni before any action is taken by sentative for the Third Annual Coun­the administration, in the several di­cil of Local Alumni Clubs, rections that now are contemplated. 




Ballot of the Alumni Association 
Of the University of Notre Dame—1933 
HONORARY PRESIDENT Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago 

PRESIDENT (Vote for one.) 5L Harry Jliller, '10, Cleveland, 0. John F. O'Connell, '13, Chicago, 111. 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT (Vote for one.) Frank C. Walker, '09, New York City William A. Walsh, '96, Yonkers, N. Y. 
LAY TRUSTEES, 6-Year 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT (Vote for one.) John Quincy Adams, '26, Montclair, N. J. Arthur R. Carmody, '15, Shreveport, La. 
DIRECTOR, 4-Year Term (Vote for one.) John E. Kenney, '21, New Castle, Pa. Fred L. Steers, '11, Chicago, 111. 
 Term (Vote for two.) 
(Nominated according to the By-Laws of the Board of Lay Trustees.) Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles, Calif. ' Clement C. Mitchell, '02, Chicago, Illinois Francis E. Hering, '98, South Bend, Indiana John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, Ohio 
DISTRICT LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS (Vote for one from your District) (Nominated under terms of the new Constitution of the Association) 
DISTRICT I, N. Ind. and S. W. Mich. William F. Fox, Jr., '20, Indianapolis Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Ind. 
DISTRICT II, Chicago James H. Brennan, '20, Richard Halpin, '27. 
DISTRICT III, Ohio, W. Pa., and W. Va. Rev. IL L. Moriart}', '10, Wooster, 0. James L. O'Toole, '21, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
DISTRICT IV, Minn., Wis. and N. Mich. Daniel Coughlin, '22, Waseca, Jlinn. Victor Lemmer, '26, Iron Mountain, Mich. 
DISTRICT V, Mich. (Except N. and S. W.) Joseph F. Sanford, '21, Muskegon, Mich. Alfred N. Slaggert, '21, Detroit, Mich. 
DISTRICT VI, N. J., E. Pa., Del., D. C. James D. Hayes, '17, Washington, D. C. John Purcell, '26, Fanwood, N. J. 
DISTRICT VII, New York City Daniel Cunningham, '27, William A. Daunt, '08. 
DISTRICT VIII, New York (Except N. Y. C.) John Huether, '26, Schenectady, Leo Kelley, '22, Syracuse. 
DISTRICT IX, New England Charles Grimes, '20, Providence, R. I. John C. Shea, '06, Holyoke, Mass. 
DISTRICT X, Va., N. C, and S. C. Forest Fletcher, '12, Lexington, Va. Frank Reese, '25, Raleigh, N. C. 
DISTRICT XI, Ala., Ga. and Fla. Bernard Fahy, '05, Rome, Ga. Chester Wynne, '22, Auburn, Ala. 
DISTRICT XII, Ky., S. Ind. and Tenn. Michael McCormack, '99, Memphis, Tenn. Edw. H. Pfeiffer, '22, Louis\'ille, Ky. 
DISTRICT XIII, La., Miss, and Ark. Robert Evans, Jr., '28, Vicksburg, Miss. Rev. Geo. F, X. Strassner, '14, Hope, Ark. 
DISTRICT XIV, Texas Charles J. Stubbs, '88, Galveston, James P. Swift, '24, Dallas 
DISTRICT XV, Kans., Mo., Okla. and S. 111. Robert Howland, '25, St. Louis, Mo. Edgar F. Moran, '17, Tulsa, Okla. 
DISTRICT XVI, N. 111., Iowa and Nebraska John F. Hynes, '14, Des Moines, Iowa 
R. Gerald Jones, '22, Dixon, 111. 
DISTRICT XVII, Mont., Wyo., N. D. and S. D. Thomas C. Kasper, '21, Brookings, S. D. James B. O'Flynn, '11, Great Falls, Mont. 
DISTRICT XVIII, Utah and Colo. James P. Logan, '16, Denver, Colo. Henry Weiss, '08, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
DISTRICT XIX, S. Cal., Ariz, and N. Mex. James H. Bach, '07, San Diego, Calif. William R. Tipton, '13, Watrous, N. Me.x. 
DISTRICT XX, No. Cal. and Nevada Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco Thomas J. Sheridan, '86, Oakland. 
DISTRICT XXI, Wash., Ore. and Idaho James L. Hope, '11, Astoria, Ore. John M. Neitzel, '25, Boise, Idaho. 
DISTRICT XXII, Foreign Peter Ronchetti, '18, London, England Fernando de Romana, '24, Arequipa, Peru. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol, XI. APRIL, 1933 No. 7 
John McCormack to Feature Commencement Program 
Award of 1933 Laetare Medal and Congress of Laetare Medalists Lead Most Pretentious Program Since the Diatnond Jubilee in '17 
Two announcements in connection to thousands who would have other­atini, McCormack won the first prize with the Eighty-Ninth Annual Com­
wise been unable to hear him. Al­at the Dublin music festival at twenty though a native Irishman, McCor­years of age. Later he returned for mencement exercises of the Univer­mack became an American citizen in two additional years of study in Mi­sity of Notre Dame rival each other 
1919. lan, and following this he went to for merit and attraction. London for his debut in 1907. •
The Golden Jubilee of the presenta­Most timely is the selection of the tion of the medal will be celebrated The Laetare medal will not be the great Irish tenor, John McCormack first signal honor which has been awarded to the Irish singer, for he is 
as the Golden Jubilee recipient of the a Knight of the Order of the Holy Laetare Medal, announced on Laetare 
Sepulchre, Knight Commander of the Sunday, March 26, and the award of Order of St. Gregory the Great— the Medal to him during the Com­both honors conferred by Pope Bene­dict XV — privy chamberman to Pope 
mencement program, June 2nd, 3rd Pius XI, who also gave him the title and 4th. 
of Count, and he is Freeman of the cities of Dublin and Newman, and Rivalling the above in interest is a Chevalier of the French Legion of the announcement that the living Lae­
Honor. tare Medalists have been invited to a general Congress during the week­Deriving its name from the tradi­tion of announcing its recipient on 
end, observing the Golden Jubilee of Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday the Medal. 
in Lent, the medal was first presented John McCormack, Ireland's master 
in 1883, one year before McCormack's birth, and has since that time come to of song, who has made his way into be recognized as one of America's the heart of the world with the beauty 
best known honors for true accom­of his voice, was given the honor Lae­plishment among Catholic laymen. tare Sunday of being the fifty-first 
JOHN MCCORMACK 

Beautiful both in its tribute and its recipient of the Laetare medal, Notre 
Golden Voiced Medalist simple form, the medal is a bar with Dame's annual tribute to an Ameri­"Laetare Medal" upon it, and a sus­can Catholic layman for merit and this year at the S9th annual com­pended disc of solid gold embelished 
mencement exercises of the Univer­with a symbol of the recipient's fieldoutstanding achievement. 
sity, on June 4th — McCormack's 49th of endeavor, his name, the motto birthday, incidentally — by a special "Magna Est Veritas et Prevalebit," 
Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, 
program. It is planned to have pres­(Truth is Mighty and Shall Prevail), C.S.C., chairman of the Laetare med­
ent all living recipients of the medal and the name of the University in 
al committee, made it known that the who may be able to come to the cam­Latin; all the lettering is black on famous tenor was chosen -(vinner of pus at that time. the gold background. the award because of the good he has 
John McCormack's life story from 
The living Laetare Medalists in­
brought to thousands with his sing­the beginning of his musical success clude the following illustrious Catho­ing, the aid he has given to many when he made his debut in London in 
lics— Agnes Repplier, 1911; Mary charities, and the splendid example 1907 as Turrido in the opera, "Cav-Merrick, 1915; Dr. James J. Walsh, 
elleria Rusticana," to his present po­
he has set as an exemplary Christian. 1916; Joseph Scott, 1918; Dr. Law­
sition among the leading figures of 
rence Flick, 1920; Elizabeth Nourse, Renowned for both his operatic and 1921; Charles P. Neill, 1922; Charles 
the concert-operatic world is a story of advancement to the heights through 
concert singing, McCormick is best D. Maginnis, 1924; Albert F. Zahm, 
earnest effort. 
known in the role of the concert art­1925; Edward N. Hurley, 1926; Mar­ist in this country because of his Athlone, Ireland, was his birthplace garet Anglin, 1927; Jack Spalding, many appearances in that capacity in 1884 on June 4th, and his educa­
1928; Alfred E. Smith, 1929; Fred­before American audiences. The radio tion was received at Summer Hill col­
erick Kenkel, 1930, James J. Phelan, and moving pictures have in recent lege. County Sligo, Ireland. After 
1931, and Dr. Stephen Maher, 1932,— years brought the magic of his voice studying in Milan under Signor Sab-in addition to Mr. McCormack. 
182 THE NOTRE DAME AtuMNUs April, 1933 That the Commencement program 
More About Costs—N. D. vs. Elsewhere
generally, not yet complete in detail, 
is to be in keeping with the key events previously listed is evident from the announcement that the University Theatre is to present "Richelieu." 
"Richelieu," a drama in five acts, that has the French conspiracy of the sixteenth century as its plot, has been selected by the University Theater for its commencement production in June. The play, first produced in 1839 in London, was written by Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton, and is considered to­day as one of the classics. 
Professor Frank Kelly, head of the Department of Speech and Drama, has already begun work on the cast­ing of the play. There are 25 parts available and any student of the Uni­versity may try out. 
Every effort is being made by those in charge of the production to en­courage student competition for the various roles. For this reason, Air. Kelly has a large number of scripts of the play on hand for distribution to interested students. 
Each student is asked to read the play, and to acquaint himself with a portion of the lines of the character he wishes to portray. At the tryout, he is given an opportunity to recite the lines before a committee. 
Professor Albert Doyle will play the title role, Richelieu. Other char­acters, not as yet cast, are Louis XIII, Gaston, the Duke of Orleans, Bara­das, the Chevalier De Mauprat, and a number of other historical figures. There are two female parts in the play. 
Members of Prof. Kelly's class in "Acting" are doing research work in sixteenth century costuming, furni­ture, customs, etc., in connection with the production. 
A Golf Tournament for Alumni is planned on the improved 18-hole Wil­liam J. Burke - University Golf Course. 
The Glee Club and Band are set 
for a week-end in keeping with their 
long and splendid Commencement 
traditions. 
The Alumni Banquet, which last year was a memorable event from both the intellectual and gastron­omical standpoints, promises to lose nothing of either. 
A more detailed Bulletin on Com­
mencement will appear in May. 
But what more do you want for a 
week-end? Whatever is added is load­
ing more gilt on the lily. You can't 
.villingly stay away from Notre 
Dame June 2, 3 and 4, if you've only 
read this much. 
Alumni who are answering ques­tions about costs at N. D. will gain a certain amount of moral courage from the following article which ap­peared in the New York Times and which deals with the general posi­tion of those institutions that offer a frequently overrated "independence" in the non-educational costs of living. 
How much does it actually cost a student to live in New York? The New York School of Social Work has recently made a study of the ques­tion with the cooperation of a num­ber of its students living under vary­ing conditions during the last year, and with the help of other organiza­tions. From .?60 to $70 a month is the ans\ver obtained by the school for the cost of bare necessities, exclusive of clothing, personal advancement and miscellaneous items. 
Here is what the average student spent each month exclusive of tui­tion: 
1. 'For room and breakfast and 
dinner S53.49 2. Lunches 3.12 3. Carfare 3.43 
4. Health care 2.20 5. Clothing 12.10 
G. Advancement, which included:­Books, newspapers, majra­zines. etc S2.25 
Club dues 37 Church and charity .77 Gifts 4.39 Recrcition 4.63 12.71 
7. Miscellaneous items 2.39 
Total 595.44 
*Other livinE accommodations: 
At a club S3S.01 
At a settlement 49.52 
Furnished room, meals eaten out 57.54 
Furnished room, with cooldng priv­
ileges 46.12 
Apartment 49.96 
Expenditures for room and meals were highest for those students liv­ing at a club, with the students liv­ing in a furnished room and eating meals out coming a close second. There are, according to the study, advantages to living at a club which. 
Dr. Eddie Anderson Coach 
As the nation's press recently her­alded. Dr. Edward Anderson, '22, All-American end at Notre Dame and captain of the '21 eleven, has been made head football coach at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., suc­ceeding Capt. John McEwan, former Army coach. Eddie coached at Co­lumbia College, Dubuque, with cham­pionship results, and later coached at DePaul in Chicago while studying medicine. He played professional football for five years and was cap­tain of the Chicago Cardinals in 1925 if the student can afford it, seem to outweigh the cost factor. Clubs make it possible for students to meet congenial friends—a factor which ap­peals especially to new students who are strangers in the city. They often IJrovide recreational opportunities al­so, such as iiarties, teas, lectures, etc., at very little or no additional ex­pense. 
Some students felt that residence at a settlement is desirable because the service they are required to give is an interesting and valuable exper­ience. Others preferred to have their evenings free for study or recrea­tional activities. 
The conclusion relative to clubs and their advantages argues no little for the Notre Dame hall system and the community interests connoted. 
You will remember that the unit costs at Notre Dame for next year, for all students, run from $686 for the year, in Brownson and Carroll, to only $803 for the year, in the other residence halls. This is against the average student's $858.96 for nine months in New York exclusive of tui­tion. This unit cost at Notre Dame includes: 
Instruction—Board in the Univer­sity Dining Halls; lodging; laundry; medical attention, dispensary and in­firmary service; facilities for the maximum convenience in the practice of Catholicity; use of general and departmental libraries; admission to all lectures, concerts and entertain­ments in Washington Hall; admission to all athletic contests at Notre Dame; use of the gymnasium, ath­letic fields and the University golf course; subscription to the Scholastic, the news weekly; a copy of the Dome, the University's yearbook in the sec­ond semester. 
And, something which the Univer­sity has failed to emphasize, the stu­dent is free and encouraged to parti­cipate in numerous cultural and ath­letic activities, expert instruction and equipment for which are furnished by the University without cost to him. 
He has gone East for spring practice in his new post and was a guest of the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Is­land on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
U. N. D. Night Reports in May 
CLUBS! GET YOUR UNIVER­SAL NOTRE DAJIE NIGHT RE­PORTS I N IMJIEDIATELY. A SPECIAL MAY BULLETIN WILL CONTAIN THE JlCCOUNT OF THE NATIONAL OBSERVANCE. 

April, 1933 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 183 


Laetare Medalists to be at Golden Jubilee 1883-1933 
•3¥;»'!*<,'(.';-A->E':Tv-'-" ••••••-•.  
FREDERICK  P. KENKEL,  1930  
Social Service, Editor St. Louis, Mo.  HON. AIJRED E . SMITH, 1929,New York, N. Y.  Statesman  
ELIZABETH NOUKSE, 1921, Artist  
Paris, France  
Below: JAJIES J. PHELAN,  1931  
Capitalist,  Philanthropist  
Boston, Mass.  Below: JOSEPH  SCOTT,  1918  
Laioyer,  Orator  
Los Angeles, Calif.  

IURGARET ANGLIN, 1927, Actress New York City 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 193S 

1933 Nominations-Who and Why? 
Depression having injected an ele­ment of uncertaintj' into things alum­ni, President Manion "made haste slowly" in the matter of the appoint­ment of nominating committees. Then, to facilitate their action, he broke the old tradition that distrib­uted the committee over the four quarters of the globe, to what was frequently mutual disadvantage. The Committees of good men and true, labeled (a) and (b) for identifica­tion, were as follows: (a) Fred L. Steers, '11, Chicago, chairman; Aus­tin McNichols, '17, Chicago, and James Ronan, '26, Chicago, (b) Wil­liam E. Cotter, '13, New York City, chairman; John E. Kenney, '21 New York City; Joseph P. Burke, '25, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
The slates which these committees have prepared indicate the success of the Committees in avoiding the pro­vincialism which has probably made such appointments late in the evolu­tionary process. Inasmuch as Chica­go and New York, over the last five-year period, represent the largest 
FRANK E . HERIXG, '98 Rc-Mominated 
financial contribution to the Associa­tion's welfare, their selection for this experiment seems sound. 
The personnel of the slates, which is arranged alphabetically according to the Constitution, and does not therefore represent the Committee sequences, requires little comment. 
Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, unanimous choice for Honorary Pres­ident, has been active in the Associa­tion since he was made Trustee at its reorganization in 1908, and has a long and equally brilliant record of participation in everything connected \vith Notre Dame that has enlisted alumni interest and support. 
M. Harry Miller, '10, the "Red" Miller of tradition, "dean" of the Miller Brothers, Director of the -A.s­sociation for four years, sage of the Cleveland Club, needs no further eulogy. 
John F. O'Connell, '13, one of the finest and the youngest of Chicago's judges, has brought to the Director­ate of the Association the same abil­ity and judgment which has made his judicial career outstanding. 
For the vice-presidencies, Frank C. Walker, '09, wonder-worker of the 
BYKON- V. KANALEY, '04 
Unanimous Choice 
Democratic campaign as successor to John J. Easkob in the unenviable treasurership, has become a national figure; William A. Walsh, monogram football man of the '90's, former mayor of Yonkers, father of Wm. A. Jr., present freshman, is a genial and loved figure both in the East and on the campus; John Q. Adams, '26, is one of those rare and admirable char­acters whose campus idealism has never lost its crusading fervor and whose influence for good is far be­yond his years; Arthur Carmody, '15, comes from another of those famous Notre Dame families whose members have been in student rosters over long and active periods. National officials from Louisiana have at least a disputed approval at present, but to use a bad. one, even misuse it, in this instance- Art is not Long. 
The directorial nominees represent such long and faithful service and so much achievement that the presence 
PRESIDENT MANION 
Ai)pointed the Committee 
of both nominees on the nominating committees merely does credit to the two-thirds rule principle. Fred Steers '11, as Secretary of the Class of '11, has revealed patience, persistance, genius and achievement. Jack Ken­ney has piloted the fast cruiser. City of New York, through the rough waters of depression with a nautical skill that makes him particularly fitted for the management of the brewery at Newcastle, Pa., as else­where reported. 
The Lay Trustees, as always, elected for a most responsible post, embodying the University's apprecia­tion of the ability and the loyalty of alumni in the business and profes­sional world, present a group of nom­inees impregnable for ability. The two present Trustees whose terms expire this year, Frank E. Hering; '98, and Clement C. Mitchell, '02, have occupied their posts with service that won for them the unanimous re­nomination of the alumni Trustees. Conforming with the By-Laws of that group, two other nominations 
C. C. MITCHELL, '02, Re-No7ninated 
appear. Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, 
Los Angeles, holds one of the out­standing legal commissions in the country, the representation of Los Angeles water rights, a tribute to his talent. His loyalty and contact re­garding Notre Dame are frequently evidenced, even in this issue of the ALUMNUS. John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, Ohio, attorney for the Van Sweringen interests, has quietly and effectively become one of the great railroad figures of current times. Both Mr. Cosgrove and Mr. Murphy are Governors of the Alumni Dis­tricts within which they reside, evi­dence enough of their familiarity with the Association and the Univer­sity's problems. 
The Lieutenant-Governors, who a year from now will succeed to the District Governorships, represent in toto men whose activity has brought the spirit of Notre Dame to their Districts. 

April, 193S THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 185 
BOOK AND INGLENOOK 
Things Old And New 
Ed. Note: Father Cavanaugh has been away from the University, and rather than let what we hope is a stimvlus to alumni reading suffer too long a lapse, the Editor is taking the liberty of reprinting herewith some of the recommendations of the most recent report of the Cardinal Hayes Literature 
Committee. 
Biography 

Marie Antoinette, by Katharine Anthony (New York: Knopf). 
Napoleon, by Jacques Bainville, Translated from the French by Ham­ish Miles (Boston: Little, Brown). 
Beauregard, by Hamilton Basso New York: Scribner). 
Literary Friendships in the -igc of Wordsivorth, by E. C. Bald (New York: Macmillan). 
Emily Dickinson Face to Face, by Martha Dickinson Bianchi (Boston: Houghton, Mifflin). 
Three Friends, by Robert Bridges (Oxford University Press). 
\yiUiam Penn, Quaker and Pioneer, 
by Bonamy Dobree (Boston: Hough­ton, Mifflin). 
William the Conqueror, by Lucie Delarue-Mardrus, translated by Colin Shepard (New York: Longmans). 
My Friendly Contemporaries, A Literary Log, by Hamlin Garland (New York: Macmillan). 
The Life of Josevh Chamberlain, 
by J. L. Garvin; Vol. 1 (New York: Macmillan). 
The Scottish Queen, by Herbert Gorman (New York: Farrar and Rinehart). 
Mazzini, Prophet of Modem Eur­ope, by Gwilym 0. Griffith (New York: Harcourt, Brace). 
Sherman, Fighting Prophet, by 
Lloyd Lewis (New York: Harcourt, Brace). Deep Water, by Pryce Mitchell (Boston: Little, Brown). 
Grover Cleveland, A Study in Courage, by Allan Nevins (New York: Dodd, Mead). 
Sir Bertram Windle, A Memoir, by Sister Monica Taylor (New York: Longmans). 
The Life of William Beckford, by 
J. W. Oliver, D. Litt. (Edin.) (O.x­ford University Press). 
St. Albert the G)-eat, by Rev. Thomas M. Schwertner, 0. P. (New York: Bruce). 
Mary Lincoln, by Carl Sandburg, documents edited by Paul M. Angle (New York: Harcourt, Brace). 
Francis Bacon, by Mary Sturt 
(New York: Morrow). 
Economics and Social Science 
The Rise of American Civilization, 
by Charles A. and Mary R. Beard 
(New York: Macmillan). 
Planned Money, by Sir Basil P. 
Blackett (New York: Appleton). 
The Crisis in the World's Monetary 
System, by Gustav Cassel (Oxford 
University Press). 
The .Abolition of Unemployment, 
by Frank D. Graham (Princetown University Press). Money and the Price Level, by F. 
M. Huntington-Wilson (New York: Century). 
Life in a Technocracy, What It Might Be Like, by Harold Loeb (New York: Viking Press). 
The Moofiey-Billings Report. 
Religion 

On the Power of God (The De Po­tentia of St. Thomas Aquinas). Translated by the English Dominican Fathers. Volume I (London: Gates & Washbourne, Ltd.). 
Christendom in Dublin, by Gilbert 
K. Chesterton (New York: Sheed & Ward). 
The Nature of Sanctity, by Ida Coudenhove (London and New York: Sheed & Ward). 
The Modem Dilemma, by Chris­topher Dawson (London: Sheed & Ward). 
Romewards, by C. J. Eustace (New York: Benziger). The Church Surprising, by Penrose Fry (New York: Harper). 
The Forgotten God, by the Most Eev. Francis C. Kelley, D.D., (Mil­waukee: Bruce). 
Jesus and His Apostles, by Felix Klein, translated by W. P. Baines; Preface by His Eminence, Cardinal Verdier (New York: Longmans). 
Back to Christ, from Essays in Catholic Morals, by Rev. Jacques L.eclercq; translated by Rev. Francis Day, B. A., (New York; Kennedy). 
The Gospel in Action, by Paul E. 
Martin (New York: Bruce). 
The Story of the Birth of Jesus, by 
Joseph Moffatt (New York: Harper) 
Lucent Clay, by a Sister of Notre 
Dame (New York: Kennedy). • 
The Golden Sequence, A Fourfold 
Study of the Spiritual Life, by Ev­
elyn Underbill (New York: Dutton). 
The Religious Philosophy of Baron van Hugel, by L. V. Lester-Garland (New York: Dutton). 
History Jehol, City of Emperors, by Sven Hedin (New York: Dutton). Italy in the Making (1815-1846), by G. F. H. Berkeley (New York: Macmillan). 
The Cambrige Ancient History, Vol. IX. The Roman Republic (133-44 
B. C.) New York: Macmillan). 
The Catholic Church in Contemp­orary Europe (1919-1931). VoL H of the Papers of the American Catholic Historical Association, edited by Pet­er Guilday (New York: Kennedy). 
St. Mary's Church, Albany, N. Y., 
by Rev. John J. Dillon (New York: Kennedy). 
Cambridge History of the British Empire. Vol. V, the Indian Empire (New York: Macmillan). 
The French Revolution, by Charles 
Downer Hazen, 2 Vols. (New York: 
Holt). 
Storm Over .isia, by Paul Hutch­inson (New York: Holt). Russia, by D. S. Mirsky (New York: Century). ,;. . 
The States of Europe, 1815-1871. A Study of Their Domestic Develop­ment, by E. B. Mowat (New York: Longmans). 
The Church in the South American Republics, by Edwin Eyan, D.D., (New York: Bruce). 
Bath, by Edith Sihvell (New York: Harrison Smith). 
Travel Tme North, by Elliott Merrick (New York: Scribner). The Log of the Sea, by Felix Eies­enberg (New York: Harcourt, Brace). The Idea of Progress, by J. B. Bury (New York: Macmillan). 
Science Neiv Conceptions of Matter, by C. 
G. Danvin, M. A., F. R. S., (New York: Macmillan). 
Music Through the Ages, by Ma­rion Bauer and Ethel Peyser (New York: Putnam). 
Church Architecture: Building for a Living Faith, by Frank Brannadi (Milwaukee: Bruce). 
186 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1933 

Don't Sell Your Children Short 
(ED. NOTE: In view of the alumni co-operation in making student contacts, the following article is printed wot 
only for alumni who are parents but for abomii who can possibly bring it to 
come tinder its scope.) 

You, with the rest of America, gambled. 
You're covering your losses yet— with easy earnings, perhaps, for a while. But beyond those you're cov­ering with hard-earned resources— savings, insurance policies, homes. 
Don't cover with your children! Don't deprive your sons and daugh­ters of their future through the too f amiiiar process of selling them short so that you may reap quick returns. You ought to find a familiar ring in that word "may." And you ought not to be far removed from the vivid meaning of the equally probable phrase, "may not." I have been thinking, through this preamble, of the American colleges, in particular our Catholic colleges. So small a percentage of our popula­tion has enjoyed higher education that it has been falsely labeled these many years a "luxury." The American colleges are no mushrooms that sprung in a night, choice morsels for the tables of the rich and a poisonous risk for the poor. They are the results of unpre­cedented advance in the manners of thinking and living among the rank and file of the American people. If ihey represent—^as they did, as they do, and as they should—a mental de­velopment, then it is entirely falla­cious that they all should fall side by side with the arbitrary values of ma­terial exchange, and the shifting standards of a system in w^hich the great majority of the colleges played entirely too negligible a part. Higher education has two major values. In recent years it had be­come too common and too misleading a practice to emphasize the material values of the advantages of college as weapons in the battle of business. The percentage of success in all ma­terial fields was held out as attrac­tive bait, and the accommodating, science of statistics provided its cus­tomary bearing-out. Neglected in large measure, but of far more vital and fundamental value, was the asset to right thinking and subsequent right living that a college education is to the individual enjoying it. That value., the forma­tion of character rather than the sharpening of talents exclusively, has increased rapidly as the "gold stand­ard" of education has fallen with the markets. Catholic higher education enters here in an academic triumph all too 
rare in its long years of public rela­tions. Recognition will probably not be rapid or general. The voice of prejudice is slow to greet a new or­der. But the facts are unanswerable. People with open minds, non-Cath­olics as well as Catholics, are begin­ning to recognize the things that are God's. 
Catholic colleges, guided by the teachings of the Church and sup­ported by the efforts and sacrifices of the Religious, have never lost sight of the Divinely taught perspective of life. This strength, combined with the weakness of negligible endow­ments, kept the Catholic colleges free from even the temptation to progress at the unnatural pace of their secular contemporaries. 
Nevertheless—a situation which our Catholic people are not willing enough to investigate and believe— these same Catholic colleges, through the seemingly superhuman efforts of those in whose hands their destinies rested, were never so far behind that they were unable to sift from the sec­ular onward sweep the best achieve­ments, and to discard, without paying the high price of experiment, those things in the general educational field which failed. 
Today, therefore, with parents, with states, and with students them­selves pleading with secular colleges to restore a right perspective—^which can only be the recalling of religion and morality to the curriculum—the Catholic college opens its doors with these advantages offered, as always, to all who may come. It points to the illustrious history of Catholic education, uninterrupted by intel­lectual turmoil, beyond the recogni­tion of material discoveries, constant in the transcendant philosophy of the lives which these discoveries have affected. It points to Catholic achieve­ments in material fields — which match any of those in the secular, without losing the right application essential to any permanent value. 
These are the more or less idealis­tic viewpoints, humbly expressed, yet they contain a wealth of implication, making it hard to explain the thou­sands of Catholic boys and girls who find their way into non-Catholic col­leges—^particularly when expense, so often the excuse, is not the explana­tion. 
There are more and practical reas­ons at this .time for making every sacrifice to send your boy or girl to college. 
the attention of parents of boys who 
No opportunities, under present circumstances, exist for him in the world outside. Probably the scarcity of openings for the high school grad­uate during this era has never been equalled. He will be idle at home, subject to the mental, the physical and the moral risks that accompany unused or misdirected energy and ability. The expenses attendant upon his living at home are not negligible. If this abnormal period is at all ex­tended it may result in his perm­anent maladjustment. 
The presence of thousands of new high school graduates in the country, ^rithout a market for their training, aggravates the already serious prob­lems of unemployment, and increases the crisis in competitive labor to the mutual loss of the competitors. 
A broader point, for you and your boy, and for the nation itself, is the threat to the leadership of the next generation if the field of higher edu­cation is made barren by these times. We are suffering the consequences of a lack of sound direction of our ma­terial world. It is essential, then, that future generations be guaran­teed against a repetition of this cause. If any reforms are effected, if any lessons are learned, they will be lost unless they find application by an enlightened leadership in the future. 
That this future leadership must be built upon the firm foundations of religion and morality has been.proved by a bitter and protracted period of penance for a philosophy which ex­cluded them. 
How inevitable it should seem, to all Catholics at least, that the Cath­olic college is training the future leader. 
Recently I had the enlightening ex­perience of visiting a group of Cath­olic high schools in a number of cities, and groups of Catholic college graduates in each city. 
Our high school students are ser­iously intent upon further education Our graduates are most sincere in their encouragement of them. Our colleges are straining limited re­sources to provide help. 
Decision and final action rests with the parents. If it is definitely impos­sible, God's will be done, but if it's a matter of doubt, if it involves only effort and sacrifice for parent and child, if it can be done, please, par­ents, don't sell your children short. 
Monogram Man In Football Leads '33 Scholastic Record 
Michael Leding, Monogram Tackle, Department of Electrical Engineering, Achieves Four-Year Average of 96.5; Survey Shows Athletes Excel in Academic Work in Present Graduating Class. 
Alumni in all walks of life will be interested in the figures just pub­lished relative to the scholastic achievements of the Class of 1933. 
Michael Leding, South Bend, Ind., tackle on the '32 eleven, leads the entire Class of 5G5 graduates with an average for four years of electrical engineering of 06.5, completely upset­ting all the traditions of both ath­letes and engineers, among the world at large. 
A survey made while the examiner for the North Central Association of Colleges and Universities was on the campus recently disclosed that the 
"JIIKE" LEDING 
Day-Dog, Engineer, Tackle 

average for the 12 athletes graduat­ing this year from the football squad was 84.8, whereas the average of a dozen seniors, picked at random by the examiner from the non-athletic group was 84.2 These figures, com­piled only as a normal gesture in a 
"Too Late to Classify" 

Miss Marian Sullivan of 'Seattle, Washington, and ROY BAILIE, '31, were married April 22, in Rye, New York. Roy, who was an outstanding member of the 1930 and 1931 track team, is working for the Goodyear Company in Boston. 
Bliss Phillis McMullen and AL HOWARD, '31, will be married April 28, at Elizabeth City, North Carolina. Al, who played fullback with the 1930 National Champions, is coaching at the University of North Carolina. 
Miss Verna Leora Ferrel, Kansas City, Missouri, and John M. "Rome" Dugan, '27, were married at the Log 
normal year by a disinterested third party, ought to answer definitely enough the question of the relations between athletes and scholars, an­swered some years ago in detail at 
CLASS AVERAGE 
Class Averages by Colleges: Arts and Letters Physical Education Science Engineering Law Commerce 
Number of Students in Class. maxima cum laude magna cum laude cum laude 
Percentage of Honor Students-
Arts and Letters maxima cum laude magna cum laude _ cum laude 
Percentage of Honor Students-
Science magna cum laude cum laude 
Percentage of Honor Students-
Engineering maxima cum laude magna cum laude­cum laude 
Percentage of Honor StudentS-
Law magna cum laude cum laude 
Percentage of Honor Students. 
Commerce magna cum laude cum laude 
Percentage of Honor Students-
Chapel, Notr e Dame, Saturday, April 22. 
Father O'Donnell Improved 
The Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C:, '06, president of the Univer­sity, ill to the point of annointment, is fortunately convalescing from the serious throat infection which for some time enlisted the prayers of all the friends of the University. Fath­er O'Donnell has, however, lost a great store of the vitality which has been so freely given to his adminis­tration and it is thought that Com­mencement will probably be the first time that he will be able to partici­pate in any activities. 
Notre Dame by the late Father De Wulf with similar results. 
The remaining Class averages and College standings will be of interest to their alumni: 
82.2% 
82.9% 79.3% 81.0% 83.1% 83.3% 81.0% 
565 3 32 141 
31.1% 
240 
1 19 63 -34.5% 
45 3 8 
24.4% 
83 2 5 
25 
38.5% 
34 1 17 
52.9% 
142 4 
28 
22.5% 
Engels Active 

William Engels, '30, former fac­ulty member, writes from Munich, Germany: I am enjoying everjrthing in Munich as thoroughly as imagin­able. The University is conducted a good deal differently from those in America, offering plenty of oppor­tunity for comparison (which does not always reflect discredit, as most people believe, on the American schools.) 
Norbert Engels, '26, a member of the English faculty, recently had the spotlight locally with an interesting talk before the University Club on dueling. 
188 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1933 
DITORIAL^ Beer, Cheese and Alumni 
An Editorial 

Using two very popular forms of nourishment and stimulus,the Editor arrives at an irresistible third. It is time for a note of merited optimism to find its way into these cloudy columns. 
Connoisseurs of cheese and, newly permitted, beer pro­fess to find in certain assigned ingredients for these deli­cacies a wanting quality, despite mathematical accuracy, unless age has endowed these ingredients with a mellow­ness that allegedly makes for the real flavor and dis­tinctive taste of the brand in question. 
Our Alumni Association has frequently caused no little impatience to its members and probably to all its friendly affiliations 'through an apparent lack of flavor and distinction when all the necessary ingredients were obviously present. 
We have always had alumni since the University graduated its first alumnus in 1844. We have had since 1842 that beautiful fer\'or and loyalty and fellowship that we lump under the now famous term "Notre Dame spirit." We have had since 1869 some form of Alumni Association. We have had Classes. We have had Clubs. Since 1923 we have had an alimmi magazine, and an Alumni Office, and for ten years an Alumni Secretary. 
What was wanting was the mellowing process, the blending of the ingredients to just that proportion and strength which would make our Association attractive. While this editorial makes no effort to contend that per­fection has been reached, it does intend to propound the belief that we are no longer "green;" that we are marketable; that we have a tasty quality that at least smacks of distinction; that the raw materials and the machinery are no longer dominating in their imappetiz­ing barrenness. 
Example will, we believe, supply the proof. 
Competing with intensive and experienced campaigns of other major institutions in the solicitation of students, Notre Dame has found in the co-operation of our'alumni a strength that seems probable as a factor in at least equalizing her position in this presently important enter­prise. Co-operation with campus representatives, as in the case of the Alumni Secretary in February, Prof. Buckley more recently, and Dean McCarthy at this writ­ing, as well as the several connections made for profes­sors during Easter vacation as in Cleveland where Profs. Cain and Eonay stopped, has been both generously given and generally effective. Reports from Clubs and Governors of the Districts indicate that the following up, without campus aid, is proceeding on a most satisfactory and general scale, with results that can ultimately bring only benefit to the University. 
The Eetreat Movement, so earnestly promoted as a part of Catholic Action, has found a place in the Local Club programs that is growing in enjoyment for mem­bers. New Jersey, New York City, Western Pennsyl­vania, Cleveland, Chicago, and the St. Joseph Valley are a few of the Clubs leading the Eetreat movement among our aliunni. 
Anyone who reads in the Cleveland Club account, in this issue, of the radio program prepared by the Club as a memorial to Eock will be convinced that here is a new-high in alumni activity. The scone of the program, its personnel — all alumni — as well as the co-operation it evidences from the Club community, are significant of far more than the laudable purpose of the memorial. 
The newly organized Ehode Island Club brilliantly opened its first meeting with an internationally famous scientist as a guest speaker, who praised two institutions at Notre Dame—the boy guidance course of the Knights of Columbus, and the probation course of the department of sociology—which are probably unknown to most of our own alumni. 
A growing volume of requests of a business and pro­fessional nature to the Alumni Office indicates a rapidly mounting realization of the mutual help that alumni can be to each other in business. 
The work of the altunni members of the Board of Lay Trustees has been a credit to the members of that import­ant group and to the Association which selects them. 
This is said generally because specific examples are too numerous to quote, but wherever Notre Dame Clubs have met in the past year, the meetings have been marked by guests, by discussions, or by achievements that bear the stamp of maturity. 
The overtone of our Association is no longer sociabil­ity only. Eetaining that beautiful and useful quality of thorough enjoyment, we have added action, we have added motive, we have added vision. 
A few forthcoming applications should be mentioned. 
Ballots will soon be mailed, containing the offices and the nominees to fill them as they appear in this issue. Thoughful attention to this ballot is essential to the main­tenance of our new maturity. Interest and attention of the voters is as essential to this Association as it became to our Government. 
A Questionnaire will accompany the Ballot. It will look long to you, and involved. You will complain of ha\'ing just filled out one for Father O'Hara (and if you haven't done that, do it immediately). Some of the questions you may think are irrelevant. Subject always to errors of judgment, nevertheless this Questionnaire is compiled from experience gathered through the work of the Alumni Office and the editing of this magazine. For effectiveness in promoting business contacts, the profes­sions and addresses are important For personal accur­acy in contacts and news the home life and statistics are important We are aiming for the development of a folder file system which will give us information in as much detail as possible about aU of the alumni—/or the 
(Continued on Page 190) 

ATHLETICS-
By Joseph Petritz, '32 

The rainy season at Notre Dame hasn't dampened the hopes of athletic coaches although there have not been a dozen days all spring when the sun was out and the fields were dry. 
They are all optimistic except John 
P. Nicholson, who last year turned out the strongest track team in Notre Dame history. He is characteristic­ally pessimistic and has good reason to be. The indoor season was no howl­ing success and the outdoor prospects are not much, if any, better. 
So the less said about track the better, yet! 
Hunk Anderson plans to extend spring football practice a week or two to make up for the time he has lost on account of the weather. There were at least ten days when no prac­tice could be held at all. On nearly all other days the ground was too soft for any efficient blocking prac­tice—and blocking is the Notre Dame system. 
Here is how the team shapes up at present as far as material is con­cerned. 
Ends—Dominic Vairo and Hugh Devore to replace Ed Kosky and the last of the captains, Paul Host. Wayne Millner and Norb Eascher look like the best shock troop pros­pects, with Sturla Canale an out­standing candidate. Vairo is a prod­uct of Calumet, Mich., the home town of George Gipp and Hunk Anderson. He has a tradition and his showing in the annual spring game justified his place in this illustrious line of Calumet stars. Devore and Millner are both hard-smashing boys. 
Tackles Ed Krause and "Butch" Pfefferle are back at left tackle. Joe Kurth is lost at right tackle and will probably be replaced by Tom Eoach, whose play was almost equal to Kurth's. all-America brand at the end of last season. Ferdinand Nabicht and Fred Barstow look good. Krause, who is but for baseball, will have to hustle to keep his regular position in the face of Pfefferle's improvement. 
• Guards — Jim Harris and Norm Greeney, varsity men for three seas­ons, have left the most serious gap in the line by their graduation. Bill Pierce is also through. Joe Pivamik has been worked in at right guard with two years of experience behind him. The other position is wide open, but there is little cause for worry. 
since Hunk's specialty is developing guards—watch-charms or giants, he'll have guards. Jim Leonard has been moved from fullback into the line; Rocco Schiralli, Paul Shrenker, and Harry Wunsch all have experience and ability. 
Centers — Jack Robinson, whose mid-season spurt won him varsity honors as a sophomore last season, will meet all comers. Ben Alexander is lost by graduation, but Tom "Kit­ty" Gorman is back, and Fred Solari, a hustling sophomore, is making a strong bid for the position. 
Quarterbacks—The loss of Chuck Jaskivhich, Laurie Vejar, and Em­mett Murphy is a staggering blow. In the spring game. Hunk changed quarterbacks every five minutes and they all looked the same. Al McGuff, Tony Mazziotti, Frank Gaul, Ray Bonar, Ed Caldwell, and a dozen others are after the position. All lack something—imagination, weight, ex­perience, blocking ability, confidence, or some other factor. The scramble is wide open. 
Left Halfback—Mike Koken will be sorely missed. The position is appar­ently in capable hands, but it is shaky. Nick Lukats looks like the successor to Koken, but he is brittle. If he is hurt, the only veteran is Frank LaBorne, the class of Brook­lyn, who lacks only weight to be a great halfback. Andy Pilney of Chi­cago, Johnny Young of Houston, Texas, and Bill Shakespeare of New-York are all likely but inexperienced sophomores. 
Eight Halfback—The situation is imder control despite the loss of Joe Sheeketski. Ray Brancheau, Red Tobin, and Al Costello are all back, supplemented by the return of Dan Hanley. 
Fullback—Ditto. George Melinko­vich and Steve Banas are reinforced by the appearance of a giant soph­omore, Don Elser of Gary, who packs all the shiftiness and speed of a Savoldi with his weight. 
BASEBALL 

The baseball outlook had even Coach George Keogan smiling broad­ly until the lowly University of Chi­cago team rose up and smacked the Irish do\vn in the opener, 6 to 5. Prospects are apparently all that they appeared to be in the eary practices. Norb Eascher, Steve Banas, Bill Smith, Charley Huisking, Bill Golden and several otiiers have shown pitch­ing ability. 
Behind the plate are Larry O'Neil, Frank Eobison, Joe Underkofler, and a couple of others. The infield of Ed Dunn, Ed Krause, or Leo Cununings, first base; Paul Kane or Bill Powell, second base; Dan Cunha or A! Cos­tello, shortstop; and Clovis White or Vic Mettler, third base, is air tight and is possessed of hitting power. 
The outfield is the same— Captain Jim McGrath in center, flanked by Hughie Devore in left and Arnold Seidl or Arnold Velcheck in right, heavy hitters and good fielders. 
GOLF 

Golf prospects are unusually good, even for Notre Dame, which has lost only two matches in the three seas­ons since the opening of the William 
J. Burke Notre Dame course. Only two members of last year's team have been lost by graduation—Capt. Bill Redmond, number two, and John Gos­tisha, number five. 
Capt. John Montedonico, number three last year, has been handing in the lowest cards in early rounds. Bill Veeneman, number one last year, is swinging into form. Vince Fehlig, number four last year, is showing last year's form. The best members of last year's frosh squad are Johnny Banks, of LaGrange, 111., who won the western junior championship last year; Bill Cole, number one fresh­man; Tom LaLonde, and Dan Henry. 
TENNIS 

The tennis team will be above av­erage, if not sensational. Nick Lu­kats used to be seventh ranking boy tennis player in the country, and has decided to return to the courts this season. Capt. Louis Chreist, last year's nimiber one man; Dick Kelly, number two; and John ©"Hanlon, number three; are all back. F. Seton Staley and Ed Power, number five and six, respectively, are also back on the job. 
Following is the complete spring sports schedule: 
190 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 19SS 
TRACK 
April 28-29—Drake relays at Des Moines. May 6—Michigan State at Notre Dame. May 13—Army at West Point. May 20 — Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. May 27—State meet at Indianap­olis. June 2—C. I. C. meet at Milwaukee June 10—N. C. A. A. meet at Chi­cago. 
BASEBALL 
April 15—Chicago, 6; N. D., 5. April 19—Northwestern at Notre Dame. April 25—Chicago at Notre Dame. April 28-29—Purdue at Lafayette. May 3—Michigan State at East Lansing. May 6-—^Northwestern at Evanston. 
May 10-11—^lowa at Notre Dame. May 14—Open. Slay 20—Ohio State at N. D. May 26—Purdue at Notre Dame. 

May 29-30—AVisconsin at N. D. June 3—Jlichigan State at Notre Dame (Commencement game). 
GOLF 
April 22—Loyola at Chicago. April 29—^Purdue at Lafayette. May 6—Michigan State at N. D. May 9—^Northwestern at Evanston. May 13—Illinois at Notre Dame. May 20—Chicago at Notre Dame. May 27—State meet at Terre 

Haute. 
(Continued from Pase ISS) 

benefit of otir abivmi. Don't forget, this Association; your organization. Please 
TENNIS 
April 22—Valparaiso at N. D. April 29—Michigan State at Lan­sing. 

Religious Bulletin Statistics Are Interesting 
The Religious Bulletin is not the world's greatest newspaper, neither is it the world's largest, but it is un­likely that many daily newspapers have a wider national and interna­tional distribution. When the Uni­versity decided, two years ago last October, to mail copies to off-campus students every day, it was announced that alumni and other interested par­ties could have their names placed on the mailing list for the asking. Re­quests have been coming in constant­ly since that time, at the rate of more than two a day, and the present state of the mailing list reflects rather ac­curately the international character of the University. 

At present, 1048 copies are mailed daily to persons other than students. These copies go to 43 states and the District of Columbia, to Alaska and the Canal Zone outside of continental United States, to the Philippine Is­lands, and to Canada, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, India, and New Zealand. The only states not represented on the mailing list are South Carolina, South Dak­ota, Wyoming, Nevada and little Delaware. 
There are 250 copies going daily to other schools. These include 43 Catholic colleges and universities, 53 seminaries and training schools for religious, 136 Catholic high schools, four Catholic industrial schools, and 
14 secular colleges
 Is the Alumni  attend to these 
questionnaires. The work of Father O'Hara and the co-operation from Notre Dame alumni in that work has won us a recognition for spiritual advancement which only our continued efforts and success in this field can make deserved. 
Lastly, a request for Dues will accompany the Ballot. (Living Endowment vriW not be urged until a later period in the fiscal year, when, we trust, conditions will warrant its successful continuation.) Alumni dues are the essentials of our continued effort. To maintain the Alimini Office and to publish the ALUMNUS, two indis­pensable actiwties, now reduced to practically minimum operating costs under the present plan of activity, dues are necessary. This year we were forced to carry over a large deficit at the Ave Maria Press from last year and to borrow from the University to cover operating 
 and universities. 
May 6—Michigan State at N. D. 
May 12—^Northwestern at Evan­ston. 
May 19—Michigan Norm, at N. D. May 25—Chicago at Chicago. 
In addition to these direct mailings to educational institutions, probably most of the copies sent to priests find their way into schools; letters frequently bear witness to this. The 20 hospitals on this list use the Bul­letin to some extent in their training schools for nurses. 
There are two archbishops and ten bishops on the mailing list, as well as 140 priests and 75 religious ( semin­arians, brothers, sisters not included above). The Bulletin is also mailed to 12 newspapers and two news agencies. The alumni list contains 240 names and there is a miscellane­ous group of 297 "fans" from all walks of life. 

Chicago heads the list of cities, with 68 names on the list; South Bend is second, with 50; New York City follows with 34, and Indian­apolis with 28. Pittsburgh, Washing­ton, and Detroit, receive 26 copies each, while Brooklyn and Cleveland receive 17 each. Portland, Oregon, with 13 copies, is ahead of Fort Wayne and Grand Rapids, with 12 each, and Toledo with 11. Indiana, Illinois, and New York lead the states, in the order named, and dis­tant California is tenth on the list. 
Ed. Note: The number of alumni taking advantage of the offer to re­ceive the Bulletin is not so large as it might be. You'll be surprised and benefitted at the interest and inform­ation each issue contains. 
expenses these last three months. In view of the Univer­sity's own program, this action has not been taken with any degree of pride in achievement by the Officers of the Association. 
If you will mark and return the Ballot, fill in and return at the same time the Questionnaire, and accom­pany these with a check for five dollars (?5) for dues for 1933-34, you will be pleasantly surprised at the progress your Association will reflect during the coming year. Subsequent billing for dues costs approximately §150 to $200 each month. The reason for urging prompt payment is obvious. 
The Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame is no longer a questionable factor in the lives of alumni and the University. It has proved itself. The burden of proof now rests upon the individual alumnus. If you will present the case to yourself fairly, our prog­ress and our achievements are permanent. Our troubles ^\ill be our tradition. 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
BOSTON 

A letter from Charley Crowley an­nounces a dinner in Boston on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
BUFFALO 

Paul Hoeffler -svrites that the Buf­falo alumni are planning a dinner for U. N. D. Night to which prospec­tive students will be invited. 
CHICAGO 

Being the new secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago — God help the club — I figured it my duty to give you an idea of the plans we have for the year. The officers and Board of Governors met at a dinner meeting two weeks ago, and a discus­sion concerning ways and means of everything took place. An exceptional amount of enthusiasm was displayed. Present company being excepted, it is my honest opinion that a fine bunch of officers was elected at the banquet held on the 23rd of February, about which Danny Hilgartner, the old re­liable, has already written you. 
The first thing done was to arrange for a Mass of Requiem at St. Pat­rick's on March 31, the anniversary of Rock's death. We expect a large number of Notre Dame men in the city to attend, and receive Commun­ion in a body that morning. 
The next thing in point of time was Universal Notre Dame Night. Noth­ing definite was decided, but enough time was spent in the discussion and plenty of excellent suggestions were made, so that the Committee will have an easy job. Needless to say it will be a "large evening" and one en­tirely in keeping with the occasion. 
A supper dance party, probably sometime in May, was suggested, and the idea took. This will replace the formal May dances of the past which were great social successes but finan­cial flops. Axi effort will be made to have this affair a big gathering with the hope of making a little money, which as you know is rather scarce. I w^ill, of course, let you know about all the plans for both these affairs as soon as anything definite is deter­mined upon. 
Further than this I cannot go, Jim, 

•without entering the realms of pure speculation, but I do promise that you will be promptly notified—in a better manner, I hope—of all developments. 
As for myself, Jim, I have turned politician and am now an assistant State's Attorney of this fair city, hav­ing retired from the private practice of law about a month ago. I know that your class columns will be in­terested to know that several N. D. boys are also assistants. Father Cun­ningham's brother, Jim, of about the class of '12, is the Habeas Corpus man in the criminal division. Ray Drymalski, '29, is a prosecutor. Frank McCurrie, '27, is the same, and Earle Hurley, '24, is now getting publicity trying for the State's several officials of the defunct City State Bank. My old room-mate of Sorin sub, Bert Kor­zeneski of '28, is an assistant city prosecutor, so it seems that the crim­inal element in the city ought to be­ware. 
Bill Kearney, '28. 
CLEVELAND 

You no doubt will be pleased to hear that the Cleveland-Notre Dame Club Retreat was a success. I say that with the assurance of an enthusi­astic and fer\-ent "Amen" from all who attended. You realize that this was a new venture on the part of the local Club and I don't know of any­thing more timely, what with Lent Lent starting, the crisis in the De­pression just past and the famous "New Deal" in the offing—. Great credit is to be given Frank Cull and Jim Dubbs and their committee for proposing, fostering and completing the activity. 
We were agreeably surprised to find H. P. Zickgraf, '21, among those present. He informs us that he is working on the Goodyear Zep in Ak­ron and will probably be detailed to make the maiden trip through the South. 
John Igoe of Lorain was also pres­ent. It was almost like old times to hear him classify the faculty and reminisce on the Class of '28. His humor lent much to the success of the Retreat. We were verj- fortunate in having Father Ralph Gallagher, for­merly of Cleveland, as our speaker. I sincerely hope that this activity will take a permanent place on our calen­dar. 
Paul Abel, '25, one of your class­mates, dropped in at the office last week. Tells me that he is among the array of unemployed and would ap­preciate hearing of any possible open­ings. Also learn that he is married ::nd that the youngest is about a year old. He promised to drop in at the weekly luncheons at Rohr's Subway. 
Jerry Reidy, who has succeeded Lou Stettler as our Club treasurer, has stepped in and really taken hold in fine shape. He informs me Jack "Red" Reidy has received a promotion in the legal department of the A & P Stores and has transferred his offices and family to Cleveland.. Here's a hearty welcome, Jack. Understand that Joe Fitzgerald is also connected with the A & P and is completing one of their training courses. 
Al Foos of Norwalk and George Kerver are Joint Chairmen on the Rockne Memorial Mass Committee. The Mass is planned for March 31, at 
11:30 A. M. at St. John's Cathedral, East Ninth & Superior. Father Mike Moriarty wlil officiate. Incidentally, rumor has it that Al is commuting be­tween Norwalk and Cleveland. Your guess is as good as mine! 
Paul Frantz is on the engineering staff of the Apex Electric here in Cleveland. His brother, Claude, is Export Manager of the same concern. While M Grissanti and John Collins are among the Notre Dame represen­tatives attending Western Reserve Law School. Understand that there are several others but don't recall who they are. 
Tom Byrne tells me that Roy Ha­bert is with the Standard Oil of Ohio. You will recall that it was through Stan Cofall of this outfit that we were able to make the arrangements for the Navy ticket sale.. 
Don't see an awful lot of the Kiener Coal boys though I have heard from good authority that they are plenty busy these cold spells and that Tom has taken charge of their new branch on the East side. 
John Hart who gave us a lift on the Navy week end is affiliated with the O'Neil trucking interests. So al­so is Ed Blatt who is General Chair­man of the Easter Dance Committee. More about that later. 
Have you heard that John Butler has been advanced to the Law Depart­ment of the City of Cleveland, after a brief but very brilliant period in the City Prosecutor's office? John W. Gleason is also in the City Prosecutor Office. His brother, Clinton, is prac­tiicng law with offices in the Audi­torium Bldg., East 6th and St. Clair Cleveland. 
George Leppig is with the General Tire Co. in Akron.' Heard indirectly that Ed McNamara is in Larchmont, 
N. Y., on an engineering project. 
Was very pleased to meet Dr. Mc­Carty among those making the Re­treat. He is practicing medicine in the southeastern section of Cleveland and his time is well taken up serving the wants of the body. Another very welcome guest in our midst was Jerry Reidy's Dad. He is practically an iVlumnus by adoption. 
April, 19SS

Saw Fritz Slackford the other day and he told me he was writing you in connection with our "Costs" discus­sion of your recent visit. I might add that I was very much interested in your article on educational costs in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Billy Ryan is no sooner out of one thing "than he is another. If it isn't 6-day bicycle races it's circuses, or Golden Glove Tournaments or operet­tas or track meets or dog-.shows. His latest has to do with an elephant found wandering around the gallery of the Public Hall six months after the last circus. But of course he was involved in that famous Michigan Goal Post legend of Father Walsh's —and one has to make allowances. Seriously, though, we extend our com­pliments to Bill on his recent appoint­ment to manager of the Cleveland Air Port. Happy landings. 
.A.1 Thomas was in town during the Christmas Holidays. He has a very good connection in an Eh-ria Law of­fice. When you get Al and Pierce O'Connor together the atmosphere is cloudy with legal phrases. By the by, is there any connection between Pierce's initials and Cleveland's fa­mous POC brew? (Better mark that one "Pun" Jim, but someone men­tioned it). 
If you were tuned in on the Cleve­land Broadcasting stations last Thurs­day evening you would have heard that the Notre Dame Club of Cleve­land and the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame had joined in contributing a cup as one of the trophies in the High School meets to be run off on Satur­day, March 25. Will furnish further dope on the Track Meet, the Easter Dance, and the Cleveland plans for Universal Night in my next epistle. 
The biggest job the Secretary here has is not finding something to write about but rather, finding time to do all the writing that has to be done. If things continue I am heartily in favor of my successor being furnished with an assistant Secretary, prefer­ably good-looking and of the opposite sex, aubums preferred. 
Harry Miller has been very busy in and out of town these last six months in the Grasselli Chemical Go's, interests. The Club, like the University is greatly indebted to Harry who has acted the part of the war-horse more than once in helping the local organization over the bumps. In connection with this, I don't believe public recognition has ever been made in these columns for the part Harry Miller played in landing the Navy Game in Cleveland last fall. I believe it is to him more than to anybody else that we owe our present liquid condi­tion (even though our cash is tied up in the Union Trust, for the time being.) 
Add: Hope the zero hour hasn't passed on the next issue as I have 
several things I would like included. The Rockne Mass at the Cathedral was very well attended, some 70 mem­bers receiving Communion. Fr. Mike Moriarty said the Mass and breakfast was sen-ed at Eohr's. About 50 of the fellows attended the breakfast. Bemie Breston of Wooster (Class of '32) drove up with Fr. Moriarty. Jack Scanlon, '32, of Lorain was also pres­ent. The track meet which was held at Cleveland Public Hall a week or so ago was won by Lakewood High School. The N. D! Trophy which was put up by the Alumni and Student Clubs of Cleveland was presented to Coach Corneal of Lakewood High on .A.pril 3rd. Fred Joyce and Chuck Kaiser very kindly agreed to furnish the moral support which this humble Secretary was verj' much in heed of while making the presentation. 
I hear the very unfortunate news that Walt "Dutch" Ridley was in an automobile crash near Philadelphia. Understand that he had to have seven stitches taken so it must be pretty serious. -Ask Father O'Hara to kindly remember him. I'm afraid the Cleve­land Alumni are ovenvorking our in­tercessor but on the other hand it is an indication of their feeling towards him. 
Another important reason for writ­ing is to request you to furnish us with the names, if any, of prospective students together with the names of their fathers. Also, would like the names of the fathers of the present Cleveland students. This may mean a bit of work for your department but I think you will agree that it is worth while. It was Tom's idea to have a dinner for alumni, students, fathers and prospective students. This is directly in line with your recent pilgrimage. Moreover, Fred Joyce has kindly agreed to underwrite the af­fair, handle the expense of the cor­respondence, etc. in addition to offer­ing the facilities of his Lake Shore Hotel. The time is APRIL 15, the place is LAICE SHORE HOTEL, the price is 65 cents per head. 
THE RADIO PROGRAM 
(A Clipping) 

Notre Dame alumni of Cleveland joined yesterday with their fellows in all parts of the United States in, marking the second anniversary of the death of Knute Rockne. 
Yesterday morning there was a requiem high mass in St. John's Cathedral here celebrated by Rev. Michael Moriarity of Wooster, chap-plain of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. 
Last night the Notre Dame Club presented a memorial program over WHIC Bishop Joseph Schrembs, head of the Cleveland Catholic Diocese, eulogized the famous maker of foot­ball stars. 
Men who had been Rockne's college day friends and others who later had played under him on Notre Dame football teams gave bits of his life. 
Tom F. Byrne, president of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, spoke of "Rockne's Code." Mayor Ray T. Miller told of his days with Rockne as a fellow student at Notre Dame and read a message from Rev. Charles O'Donnell, president of the university. 
John Quinn, student manager of athletics during Rockne's last four years, told of Rockne's Football Record." Don Miller, one of the fa­mous "Four Horsemen" developed by Rockne, reviewed the careers of "The Other Three Horsemen." Stan Cofall, who plaj'ed on the 1914 team at Notre Dame and was the first of that uni­versity's football players to gain na­tional recognition, dramatized an in­cident in Rockne's coaching days. Pat Canny, another alumnus, portrayed the coach in a talk between the halves in a hard-fought game. 
Notre Dame songs were played by John Beljohn's band and sung by the Notre Dame Club chorus, conducted by John P. Butler. George G. Kerver was in charge of the arrangements for the broadcast. 
CINCINNATI 

A new Constitution, commendably brief, with sufficient by-laws to forti­fy the administration in its procedure, accompanied the last letter from the active Cincinnati unit, via the efficient scribe, Hogan Morrissey. A dinner meeting and a proposed Retreat were in the offing at that time, to be heard from probably in the next issue. 
A note attached said that Joe Mor­rissey, coach at Roger Bacon High, was to give a radio talk on Friday, March 31, from WLW commemorat­ing the second anniversary of Rockne's death. 
DES MOINES 

A letter from Charley Lynch indi­cates that he is carrying on nobly in the absence of President Earl Walsh who is infusing a little of the Iowa corn into the Fordham Ram. 
Received the cards listing the names of local boys who have made inquiries with the Registrar. 
I have written to each one of them and will attempt to make personal contact with them within a very short time. 
Earl Walsh has been back east ever since Jimmy appointed him. We expected him in Des Moines this spring but it appears as though he will not make it. 
Ray Sullivan from New Hampton, Iowa, who graduated in 1915, dropped 
in the office last week and asked me to send his regards. Yours very truly, Charley Lynch. 
HIAWATHAIAND 

Norman Bartholomew is arranging for the program of the Hiawathaland Club to be held on Universal Notre Dame night at the Hotel Milliman, Iron Mountain, on April 24th. Joe Lauerman is going to talk on "Foot­ball Prospects for Ne.xt Fall," and he asked me to talk on the "Academic Work and the Achievements of the Faculty and Students at Notre Dame." 
Heres' an item for the ALUMNUS. Gerald Cleary, Class of 1917, who has been chairman of the Democratic County Committee has been elected to the Democratic State Committee in Michigan. 
With every good wish to you, I am, 
Yours sincerely, 
John A. Lemmer. 
INDI.4NAP0LIS 

Every cloud etc. From the recent news despatches concerning the criti­cal illness of Father Charles O'Don­nell (now passed) the Indianapolis Club hiis doubtless gained conviction that the President was ill on the night of March 27, when 77 spic, span and sober members of the capi­tol Club met in the Indianapolis Ath­letic Club at a dinner to do him honor. The sudden attack prevented Father O'Donnell from attending the conse­cration of Rt. Rev. Bishop Ritter, the eve of which was chosen for a dinner to Father O'Donnell and Rev. John F. O'Hara. 
Father O'Hara was, as always, on the job, but in Indianapolis suffers the curse of being "home folks." The Alumni Secretary attended the meet­ing and was more than pleased to find that Alumni Association honors were being carried on by none other than President Clarence "Pat" Manion, not unfamiliar in the State capital. 
Father O'Hara gave a beautiful in­terpretation of Father O'Donnell's idea on the spiritual life of alumni of a Catholic college, Notre Dame spe­cifically. Armstrong gave the princi­ples and practices of the alumni stu­dent contact campaign, and the alimi­ni picture was ably and eloquently painted by President Manion. 
A festive atmosphere was given to the occasion by the presence of Brother William, principal of Cathe­dral High, and Joseph Dienhart, '27, coach of the Cathedral basketball team which had the previous day won the National Catholic prep title in Chicago. 
Tw^o prominent members of the Club, Leroy Keach, '08, and Jim Deery, '10, spoke on behalf of the 
Club, and that genial mortician. Pres­ident ICirby, officiated. 
John Rocap writes: 

During the session of the Indiana Legislature, which recently adjourned, one of the most active members of the House of Representatives was Bob Mohlman, '28, of Lafayette, Indiana. Bob was a member of the Tippecanoe County delegation. John Davis, '28, who is one of the few insurance sales­men in the countrj', and myself were together in the House chambers the day the Beer bill was voted upon. We awaited with interest to see what Bob's vote would be, and I don't be­lieve it is necessarj- to say that he voted "Aye." 
Joe McNamara, '29, was appointed to a position in the office of the At­torney General of Indiana, as a dep­uty. Another Notre Dame fellow, Frank McCarthy, was appointed to Joe's former job as auditor of the Board of Public Works of Indianap­olis. 
We were treated to a very exciting basketball game here a couple weeks ago between Butler and Notre Dame. The boys from school won out in an overtime session and I know that every one of the ten thousand people who witnessed the game will remem­it for quite some time. Bob Hilger of Columbus, Indiana, and his brother, Joe, were up for the game. 
JOLIET-ICANE COUNTY AND THE ROCK RIVER VALLEY 
Report of visit to Alumni Clubs by Louis Buckley, '28 

The Notre Dame Club of Joliet lived up to its reputation of really entertaining Notre Dame visitors in the Prison City. I followed our Alum­ni Secretary's advice and immediately upon my arrival on March 22nd got in touch with ED KING at his drug store at 301 Ruby St., which is the meeting place for Notre Dame men in Joliet. I then met CHUCK LEN­NON, '30, a former student of mine, and now President of the Joliet-Notre Dame Club, a successful wholesale grocer, and a proud father. Ed and Chuck accompanied me to De LaSalle High School where I told the seniors all about Notre Dame. I spent a most enjoyabe afternoon with BILL BOS­SINGHAM, '25, and TOM FEELEY, '32. Bill lives in Joliet but practices law at 11 So. LaSalle St., Chicago. That evening I met the other mem­bers of the Club at a dinner. The offi­cers present were CHARLES LEN­NON, '30, President, BOB B.ASKER­VILLE, '31, Vice President, TOM FEELEY, '32, Secretary and JIM MARTIN, '23, Treasurer. Other mem­bers present included FRANCI S DUNN, FRED J. LOEFFLER, BILL BOSSINGH.AM, P. H. McDONNELL, JOE ADLER, ED KING, L. C. HER­INGER, C. W. WILHELMI. Despite the fact that there were thirteen pres­ent the dinner was a most successful one. The Club promised to keep in close touch with the high school grad­uates who might be interested in Notre Dame. They discussed the pos­sibility of establishing a scholarship at Notre Dame by the Club for the benefit of some deserving graduate of De LaSalle High School in Joliet. The Club is a most active one. They hold meetings regularly on the first Tues­day of each month. At present they are making plans for a celebration for Universal Notre Dame Night. 
In Aurora I had lunch with the offi­cers of the Notre Dame Club of Kane County. BILL CHAWGO, '31, neg­lected his insurance clients to enter­tain me and to talk over plans for the Club. CLARENCE RUDDY, '27, the new assistant-general in his dis­trict in Illinois, was on deck to be of service to Notre Dame. I visited the Fox Valley High School in Aurora where I spoke to the entire student body. The Kane County Club has plans for permanent contact between Notre Dame and the High School. They are looking forward to renewed club actvity on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
When one thinks of Dixon, Illinois one always thinks of the large num­ber of Notre Dame men in that local­ity. I doubt if there is another town in the country that has as large a proportion of alumni for its size as has Dixon. In view of this situation it was only natural that Notre Dame should receive an invitation from the Dixon High School to have a repre­sentati\'e present for their "Go-To­College-Day." I arrived rather early but not early enough to awaken WIL­L.ARD JONES, '25, Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley, and local undertaker. His three weeks old baby had done that about three hours eariler. I had a most pleasant time at a luncheon with several members of the Club. I found Dixon to be a political hotbed for Notre Dame men. SHERWOOD DIXON, '20, who is the State Central Committeeman of the Democratic party in Illinois, was in southern Illi­nois at the mines on guard duty. His brother, BOB DIXON, was present at the luncheon. GERALD JONES has been appointed assistant Attorney-general in his district. DR. DAV^ MURPHY is not only busy with his many patients but has accepted a po­sition on the Dixon School Board. TIM SULLIVAN, of DLxon, and PAUL CARNEY, of Rochelle, were home from Northwestern Medical School. They have a year more of medical school before they join the ranks of Dr. Murphy. I was sorry to miss two of my Dixon classmates, PAUL FRY and RED LAHEY. Paul was in Chicago attending the dog show. He is the pharmacist in the office of Dr. Murphy. Red Lahey, 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Apnl, 193S 
whose second child was bom about three weeks ago, is with Walgreens Drug Co. in Chicago. The Dixon gang informed me that HARRY McGUIRE, editor of Outdoor Life Magazine, had become a member of their Club. Harry is living the life of a country gentleman in Mt. Morris, Illinois. He invites the Di.\on fellows over for a game of polo occasionally. The Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley plans a big time for Universal Notre Dame Night somewhere between Dl.\on and Rockford. Needless to say, if there are any young Dixon men go­ing away to school, the Notre Dame Dame Club sees to it that they go to Notre Dame. 
MILWAUKEE 

Here are a few News items from MILWAUKEE. 
The Milwaukee Club may again have dues-paying members if our now busy breweries can create enough lo­cal prosperity. K not, w^ill you accept beer in lieu of cash dues? Chauncey Yockey is a delegate to the Wisconsin Convention, pledged to vote for the Repeal of the ISth Amendment. 
Last month's program of the Club included a very successful Card Party at the Medford Hotel. Mrs. Frank Holdampf w^as the hostess at this very enjoyable affair. Fred Miller has broken into sport print again. With his partner he recently retained the City Handball Doubles Champion­ship. Tom Kelly, the well-known toastmaster, lawyer and politic,ani is on the slate for State Supreme Jus­tice, here's hoping. Ed Yockey has been named Special Attorney for the Milwaukee Grand Jury. 
Gerald Powers, our former -Ass't District Attorney, has opened a pri­vate Law Office. A busy man these days is Charles O'Neill, the past Sec­retary of the Club. Charley is execu­tive secretary of the St. Vincent de Paul Society—Charity is a sorely tried virtue. In somewhat the same line of work is Al Roach, the Special assistant for the Catholic Social Wel­fare. Richard Cannon has a new job. He is working for the Big Brothers as a probation officer. Fred Reisweber caused a sensation in the K. C. Wed­nesday League by setting a high in­dividual record. This writer can vouch for it as he is the secretary of this League. John Cavey put up a good race in the past Primary Election when running for School Board Di­rector. Headlines on the business pages of our local papers announce that Chester Freeze has resigned the Presidency of the Advertising agency bearing his name, so that he can take up his work out West. Freeman Fitzgerald, former N. D. football star, and past football coach at Marquette University, overcame the stringencies of the past bank holiday and was a loud rooter at the Notre Dame-Mar­quette basketball game. It was a swell game. Plans are in progress for our Universal N. D. Night Party. Then we shall discuss what to do ^vith the surplus of our Treasury — Shall we send in for -Alumni dues Set up a Scholarship ? — Donate it to the Rockne fund? 
Forgive the rambling manner of presenting these notes, I am so busy (?) at Architecture that I didn't have the time to do better. 
Yours truly, Paul Brust. 
NEW YORK CITY 

Activities on the Eastern seaboard have been numerous and effective. -•Vpri! 2nd the New York Club, 70 strong, attended a Rockne Memorial Mass and subsequent Communion Breakfast, the former at St. Mala­chy's Church and the latter at the Hotel Edison. 
Despite the rambling nature of the City of New York, so successful were the luncheons of the Club, begun last month, that change of quarters was necessitated as per the following announcement: 
As announced at the last meeting we will hold our luncheons on Tues­days. Due to the large number that have expressed their willingness to attend it has been necessary to change the location of these lunch­eons. 
The new location is the Hidden Inn, 21 Ann Street, New York City—-A.nn Street being one block North of Ful­ton Street. The restaurant is located between Broadway and Nassau Street —^next door to Spalding's which is on the comer of Ann and Nassau Streets. 
We will have a large table resen-ed from twelve o'clock to two o'clock and there will be a choice of several luncheons for forty-five (45) cents. 
Be with us on Tuesday the 28th and every Tuesday thereafter. 
J. Norbert Gelson, Jr., Sec'y, 1201 Troy Ave., Brookl.vn, N. Y. 

And from the efficiently genial Bill Daunt comes this interesting an­nouncement, with its stimulating pos­sibilities: 
The Annual Laymen's Retreat of the Notre Dame Club of New York will be held at the Loyola House of Retreats at Mount St. Katharine, Morristown, New Jersey on Friday, May 19, 1933. The retreat mil begin with dinner at 7:05 P. M. on Friday, and end with breakfast at 6:55 A. M. on Monday. 
The Reveirend Herman I. Storck, 

S. J., will conduct the spiritual exer­cises of St. Ignatius Loyola, assisted by the Retreat Committee of the New York-Notre Dame Club, the chairman of which is William A. Daunt, 110 East 42nd Street, New York, and the secretary is J. N. Gelson, 1201 Troy -'Vvenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. Other mem­bers of the Committee are J. E. Ken­ney, 165 Broadway, New York, Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club, John T. Balfe, D. J. O'Neil, Bemard Conroy, Ray P. Boyce, Thomas Lantry, George 
D. BjiTie and Frank E. Mulligan. 
The Spiritual Director and the Committee are completing plans for the Retreat, and all applications from Alumni must be filed not later than April 24, 1933, the date of the Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, which will take place at the New York -Ath­letic Club, 59th St. & 7th Ave., New York. 
Accommodations at the Retreat House are limited to 75 men, although the Committee will make other ar­rangements to accommodate a larger number, in the event that greater registration may demand over the list now on file. Any member of the Com­mittee w^ill be glad to furnish applica­tion blanks and full details regarding this Retreat. There is frequent train service to Morristown, N. J.; and there is a garage on the premises for those who come by auto. 
Bulletin from Doc Gelsoji 

On April 2nd we had a very good turn-out at a Mass offered in St. Mal­achy's Church for Rock. There was a breakfast served in the Hotel Edison following the Mass at which we had the pleasure of hearing from Jimmy Crowley, Coach of Fordham Univer­sity, Redmond Keman, President of the National Catholic Alumni Federa­tion, Christy Walsh and Johnny Law. 
Plans are being completed for a dinner to be held in the Great North-em Hotel, 118 West 57th Street, on Universal Notre Dame Night. J. P. McEvoy is to act as Toastmaster and he will have several prominent speak­ers to call on. 
The date of our Retreat at Morris­town has been changed to the week­end of May 18. William A. Daunt has been appointed Promoter for the retreat and he is working very hard wth a committee of ten to make this occasion the success that it should be. 
The Brooklj-n Bengalese Society is having a Minstrel Show on April 20th for the benefit of the Holy Cross Mis­sion Seminary. The Board of Gov­ernors voted at the last meeting to help out in this worthy undertaking by purchasing a box. 
The luncheons on Tuesdays in the Hidden Inn, 21 Ann Street, New York City have had a very good attendance. We were honored to have Father Gene Burke TOth us one week, and on another occasion Father M. A. Mathis of the Holy Cross Mission Seminary. 
April, 1933 THK NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
RHODE ISLAND 

Charley Grimes and his Rhode Is­land alumni are planning a big night for the 24th, with Dr. Eddie Ander­son, new Holy Cross coach, as a guest, along with Dean James E. McCarthy of the University College of Com­merce, who is making an official trip in the East. 
SAINT JOSEPH VALLEY 

Just an echo, in the Valley! But you'll hear more. 
So much of the activity of the Valley alumni is intermingled with activities that profit, mutually, from Notre Dame participation, that news of it in these columns seems a little out of place e. g. Cap. Edwards, '09, has just retired as president of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce; Father Cavanaugh sold J. D. Oliver, Sr., a Rockne car in the Studebaker prosperity drive; Howard Haley has become the 3.2 Importer for this Dis­trict; Pat Manion has been men­tioned in black and white as senator­ial timber from Indiana in '34 since McNutt declined to run; a Dean, a professor and three alumni comprise Ave of the seven directors of the newly organized Catholic Forum in South Bend; and so on far, far into the community enterprises. 
However, not all formality of or­ganization has been forgotten. Nom­inations and a mail ballot resulted this month in the election of the fol­lowing directors for 1933-34. George Beamer, city judge since Al Hosinski has been appointed Federal Marshal for the District; Prof. Louis Buckley; Paul Butler; Prof. Joseph Casasan­ta; Albert Doyle, city judge of JMish­awaka; Howard "Cap" Edwards; Francis Jones; Herbert Jones; B. J. McCaffery; J. H. B. McCarthy; E. 
J. McErlain, long honored treasurer of the Club; and William F. Sheehan, erstwhile chairman of the celebrated football banquet of the past season. 
This Board, at the present writing, is contemplating immediate election of officers for the coming year. 
A Universal Notre Dame Night celebration is planned that will re­move the burden of work and prac­tical action that has marked Club activities almost continuously during the last two or three years. Having played a vital part, individually and collectively, in numerous civic and University projects, the policy of the Club for this one Night is "Relax." Then, back to the wars! 
Bulletin! 

New officers for the Club, elected by the Board of Directors at a meet­ing April 18 are as follows: Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, honor­ary president; Paul Butler, presi­dent; Howard Edwards, first vice-president; Judge Albert Doyle, Mish­awaka, second vice-president; M. C. McGrath, St. Joseph, Mich., third vice-president; Herbert E. Jones, Notre Dame, fourth vice-president; Norman Hartzer, secretary; William 
F. Sheehan, treasurer; Rev. Patrick 
H. Dolan, C.S.C, chaplain. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night meeting was scheduled for the Knights of Columbus home, South Bend. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

Leading the news from Western Pennsylvania is the announcement of the coming marriage (in May) of the Club President, John C. Sheedy, '28, to Miss Mary Cray, daughter of Mr. James R. Cray of Uniontown. Miss Cray is a graduate of the Georgetovm Visitation Convent in Washington, and Rosemont College. Jack, the son of Mr. and 'Mrs. P. F. Sheedy, Pitts­burgh, has a brother graduating this year from Notre Dame, and is also a brother of Morgan Sheedy, '22. 
1928 Reunion Plans Head Activities 
Your Class Secretary called a meet­ing of the '28 men in this locality to talk about plans for the five year reunion to be held in June. The fol­lowing men responded to the call: ANDY "MULREANY, C.S.C, FRANK DONOVAN, BILL ARMIN, ANDY BOYLE, JOHN MAHONEY, GEORGE SCHEUER and WILLARD WAG­NER. It was decided that the best method to make sure that you will all be present is to divide the country into sections and appoint a '2S man in each district to contact the other men in that section of the country. If you are appointed to one of these positions I hope that you will follow the suggestions made. The rest of the men are to keep in touch with their sectional '28 representative. You will hear from us in a short time. In addition to the personal letter that you will receive from your sectional representative the local committee will write soon telling you about our plans. We have decided to have a dinner about eight o'clock Friday night June 2nd. for the '28 men. Plan to be here for that coming event. 
My attendance at the Conference of the Social Action Department of the National Welfare Council in Fort Wavne, Indiana brought me in touch wtih several '28 men. HENRY HAS­LEY, who took an active part in the Conference, is a junior partner in one of the oldest law firms in the city of Fort Wayne. JOE HORAN is d-;ing well as an engineer at General Elec­tric, as a husband and as a father of a three month old baby boy. GEORGE FLICIC, who finished at Georgetown in law, is practicing his chosen pro­fession. 
I was in Rochelle, Illinois long enough to find \nNCE CARNEY, who is kept more than busy with a clothing business there. Not so busy, however, that he hasn't time to sand­wich in a few music lessons and a trip now and then to Chicago to take in an opera. In addition to these var­ied interests, I discovered, upon read­ing the local Rochelle paper, that Vince was enlightening the town on the subject of library science in a series of articles on "What's wrong with the local library." If there is another '28 man with such a variety of interests, I am yet to find him. 
The two '28 men from Dixon had forsaken the town the day I visited there last month. They evidently had the advance information that the Class Secretary was on their trail. PAUL FRY is the pharmacist in the office of DR. DAVE MURPHY, '25. Paul was in Chicago attending the dog show. At least that was the story he told the Dixon gang. RED LEAHY has added the second little red-head to his family. He is located in Chicago OTth Walgreen's. 
Between acts while enjoying the Abbey Players in Chicago, I was pleasantlv surprised by meeting DICK HALPIN and his brother ED, '30. Dick has finished law at Harvard and is at present practicing in Chica­go. 
It is almost safe for a '28 man to do anything in Indiana with JOE Mc-NAMAR.\, assistant attorney general in Indianapolis, GEORGE BEAMER, city judge in South Bend, and with MIICE RICKS, judge of the munidpal court in Lafayette. Mike would like to send out an S.O.S. for Bud Cal­lagy. BOB MOHLMAN is state rep­resentative from the Lafayette dis­trict now. 
While speaking of judges, I might mention that JOE HILGER is to re­ceive a life sentence on April 17th in Philadelphia. The lucky girl is Marion Melody. Congratulations and best of luck from the '28 gang. Will see you at the reunion on June 2nd. 
Politics Students Travel 

April 23-27 the students of politics at the University, led by Prof Paul Bartholomew, were scheduled to vis­it the national capital on a special tour which includes a visit to the Congressional Library , Supreme Court, Senate. House, and the various sightseeing features of Washington and Baltimore. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1933 
DEATHS 

Three men, representing the tri­angular nature of Notre Dame's tra­ditions, have become transferred to the intangible residence halls of those traditions as death has removed them from more definite abodes. 
COLONEL WILLIAM HOYNES,' fifty years in residence on the cam­pus, epitome of the traditions of the lay faculty as it pioneered beside the Community members in building the Greater Notre Dame. . -. 
GUS F. MEEHAN, bringing to the industrial world South of the Ohio, through the Ross-Meehan foundries in Chattanooga, the business acumen, and in addition the scientific brilliance and the cultural background that too infrequently marks the presence of education in business. . . . 
REV. DOMINIC K. O'MALLEY, C.S.C, who brought to the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, and particularly to the position in recent years as Rector of Corby Hall, the rugged wholesomeness that won for him the significant monogram in football for four years, 1899-1903. 
Of the Colonel, the Religious Bul­letin ably said: 
Colonel William J. Hoynes, IC.S.G., Dean Emeritus of the College of Law ,and last surviWng member of the Notre Dame Post, Grand Army of the Republic, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, in his 87th year, and in his fiftieth year of continuous residence at the Univer­sity. 
Perhaps no figure ever connected 
•withthe University was more widely or more universally loved by Notre Dame men of present and past gen­eration. His connection with Notre Dame began when he enrolled as a student, in 1868, after a distinguished service in the Ci\'il War—rather, two periods of service, for the Colonel en­listed twice. The youngest infantry­man in his Wisconsin regiment (he was fifteen), he was discharged from the service after being seriously wounded; but he reenlisted, this time as a cavalryman, and was not mus­tered out of service until after the close of the War. 
The tenacity and versatility which characterized his army record were evident in every activity of his life. After making preparatory studies at Notre Dame, he studied law^ at the University of Michigan, where he re­ceived the degree of LL.B., in 1877. 

Notre Dame awarded him an A.M., in 1878, and an LL.D., in ISSS. He did newspaper work in LaCrosse, Wiscon­sin, New Brunswick, N. J., and Peoria, 111.; he practiced law in Chicago ior 
COL. WiLLUsi J. HOYNES 
Last of the Notre Dame G. A. R. 
five years. In 1883 he returned to Notre Dame as professor of law, and later as Dean, a position he held until his retirement in 1918. He was a can­didate for Congress in 1888, and be­cause bigotry was used against him in that campaign he refused the nom­ination in 1904. He sen'ed the State of Indiana on several commissions, and the United States Government as a special commissioner on Indian Af­fairs. In 1912 he was made a Knight of St. Gregory by Pope Pius X. 
A gentleman of the old school, CoL HojTies bore himself with unfailing dignity, but he had ever the heart of a boy. He knew the students and loved them, and they reciprocated his affection. It was only in the last few years that he lost contact with actual students; but he maintained his in­terest in their games and amuse­ments, being an ardent fan in the stadium and in Washington Hall. No figure on the campus was more sought after by the alumni, and "Col. Hoynes reunions" were a feature of commencements of almost a half-century. 
But most of all, "the Colonel" was an ardent Catholic. The faith he brought from County Kilkenny as a boy flourished and grew deeper and wider and stronger with the sunshine 

of Notre Dame life and the rain of bigotry. He had a vast interest in the study of Apologetics, and he had hoped to devote his latter years to the preparation of a treatise on this subject that would sum up his ripe e.xperience. Infirmities prevented his execution of this hope — but the Col­onel's life Was itself a beautiful chap­ter in Apologetics. A faithful daily communicant until the infirmities of age prevented daily reception, he drew from the Tabernacle the grace that directed his life in the way of God. The Church meant everything to him: it was his life. 
As we said of Professor McCue's passing a few months ago, the Col­onel's death is not the breaking of a link with the past, but rather the forging of a new link in the chain that binds Notre Dame together in the Communion of Saints. Col. Hoynes was for a long time the legal adviser of Father Sorin and Father Zahm and other great men who made Notre Dame; he was the bosom friend of McCue, Howard, Stace, Lyons, and other giants of the lay faculty. The ties that bound them were the ties of spiritual friendship; those are ties that hold forever. 
In a sermon whose reminiscences, almost in pleasant vein, were so much in keeping with a life already lived to the full and already endowed with the deathless richness of tradition, the Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, pronounced Notre Dame's farewell. 
In the opening paragraph. Father Cavanaugh developed the thought that of all earthly creatures, man alone builds tombs, erects monu­ments, preserves a record of the words and deeds of the dead. One purpose of reverential obsequies is not only prayer for the dead but the per­petuation of the memory of the vir­tues, services, excellences of such a life as the Colonel's. All true happi­ness resides in ardent and whole­hearted dedication to the service of God and humanity. Judged by that test, the Colonel's life had been su­premely successful. Father Cav­
anaugh said: "This sturdy boy who had emigrated from Ireland at the . age of seven, tackled life mth char­acteristic force and earnestness when in his early teens he learned the printer's trade in La Crosse, Wiscon­sin. For a boy like William Hoynes that was a method of earning his bread and at the same time educat­ing himself in vigorous thinking and in forceful persuasive speech. The 

long and distinguished editorial ca­reer that followed was a necessary consequence of that first step—in New Brunswick, N. J., in Chicago under the famous "Brick" Pomeroy, in Pe­oria on the staflc of the outstanding Transcript. A taste for printer's ink once acquired becomes almost an in­temperate passion: William Hoynes never completely conquered the im­pulse to 'write for the paper.' 
"Similarly, his adventure in the Civil War was characteristically stout and valiant." "A mere stripling" was the way he described himself when he entered the war at the age of 15. In the battle of Prairie Grove, Ark­ansas, an enemy bullet plowed its way through the top of his skull, leaving a furrow there in which a lead pencil might be completely concealed. Ban­ished by military authority to the hospital, he had not completely recov­ered when he 'deserted,' the hospital and fled to a receiving station where he enlisted a second time. As a slack­er he was not a great success. 
"This desperate earnestness char­acterized all his long life at Notre Dame whether as teacher or profes­sor. The great Father Zahm told me that his first glimpse of William Hoynes was in 1868 when he had just finished matriculating at the Students' Office. 'He entered the study hall car­rying a tallow candle in one hand and an Unabridged Webster's diction­ary under his arm. The only differ­ence between then and now is that now the Colonel has the dictionary in his head.' Every moment was scrupu­lously employed in study, most con­centrated study. It became the habit of a lifetime and explains both his character and his acquirements. 
"Fifty years ago the Colonel came to Notre Dame as Professor of Law. He was the entire Law School. He taught four classes every day, using his own written text for the lectures, and there were five days for him in every school week. For recreation on a free day, he held a long Moot Court. During his long career as a teacher, there is no recorded case of a gradu­ate of his failing to pass the Bar ex­amination. I know that the value of this statement might easily be over­estimated, but it is true that Notre Dame lau-yers everywhere have been remarkable for their firm grip on the fundamentals and solidities of the law. The Colonel taught every sub­ject included in the curriculum. "It could not have been a great law school,' you say. I am not so sure of that. It was immeasurably greater than the school which produced the illustrious John Marshall who had only a few college classes and a doz­en lectures in the law. It was far greater than the school which pro­duced the late Edward Douglass White, second only to Marshall in the history of American Jurisprudence, who assured me himself that he never had a single day in college and never took a single class in a Law School. He "read the law" in a lawyer's of­fice. But apart from that the young lawyers who spent four hours daily listening to the Colonel's learned and limpid lectures were being well grounded in the law. 
"The Colonel's devotion to our alma mater was sacrificial and heroic. No consecrated priest ever had more faith or piety or zeal, and no religious of Holy Cross had ever more loyal devotion to Notre Dame. During the 35 years of his professorship, he was content to receive the salary of a high-class domestic or a chauffeur. This was a necessity of those heroic days when the total net income of the university for the year was §20,000, to be devoted to growth and expan­sion. And yet the Colonel towards the end of his days was able out of the scant earnings of so consecrated a life to bestow an endo\vment of $30,000 an average of nearly a thousand dol­lars per teaching year—on our sem­inary for the education of priests of Holy Cross to whom he was from be­ginning to end of his career so beau­tifully and ardently devoted. 
"Every great historic campus is sure to have its picturesque figures, its quaint characters. No one who knew the colonel can ever forget his gigantic virtues and characteristics. No man surpassed him in substantial TOsdom, in sobriety of judgment, in hard practical common sense. But what made him specially beloved were the simplicity, the amiability, the pleasant, cheering vivacity, that clung like vines around his giant strength and power. His speech and behavior were of a maidenly modesty and no one ever took a liberty with him. He had a humorous story for every mom­ent of the conversation, but never did anyone hear a word, phrase, sugges­tion from his lips that suggested, in slightest measure, anything unrefined or unclean. He was completely virtu­ous himself, so utterly honest he could not conceive anything less perfect in another, and therefore whenever com­plaint was made in any respect about his law students, the colonel was at once transformed into a quick-firing and thunderous battalion of artillery in their defense. Certainly they did 
not always deserve this chivalToas protection; certainly, also, they were the better their whole life long for knowing that the Colonel defended them and believed in them. His life was completely innocent bat he was not over quixotic and he was worldly wise in this sense, that he knew as a child knows and understands the words of the examination of con­science in the prayerbook. His days were laborious, his whole life was sac­rificial and knightly. He was widely and deeply learned in Us ponderous polysyllabic way. He was one of the great figures in the long succession of notable Notre Dame professors. He bore his own great part in the mak­ing of our alma mater. 
"Colonel William Hoynes will be re­membered with love and reverence on this campus until the last who knew him follow him to eternity. His life will be e.vample and inspiration for generations to come." 
Tributes to Col. Hoynes have al­ready come from a variety of persons and places. Indicative of their char­acter are the following, chosen at random: 
A wire from Terence B. Cosgrove, LL.B., '06, Los Angeles, California: 
Your wire just received advising of the death Wednesday of Colonel Hoynes. The Colonel as he was af­fectionately known to so many of us was the embodiment of the virtues of a Christian gentleman. To those of his former students like myself pres­ently engaged in the practice of law his concept of ethical conduct an­nounced constantly in his classroom talks and exemplified by his daily conduct has been and always will con­tinue to be an aid in the determina­tion and a comfort in this accomplish­ment of correct professional conduct. Before me I have three letters the last dated January 29th, 1932 written by the Colonel in long hand. I have treasured these documents and expe­rience comfort and much encourage­ment in reflecting upon the noble sen­timents therein expressed. I regret exceedingly the great distance I am removed from Notre Dame with the consequent inability to pay my re­spects at his funeral. With me as with the thousands that knew him at Notre Dame his memory always shall remain green and his name shall be spoken with affection. 
T. B. Cosgrove. 

Reverend and dear Father O'Donnell: 
I have learned today with profound sorrow, through the New York Times, of the death of my beloved teacher Colonel William Hoynes under whose inspiring guidance I studied law in Notre Dame and graduated vnth the Qass of 1901. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS April, 193S 
REV. DOMINIC O'MALLin-, C.S.C, '03 

Tivo years of filial association with him made me admire and esteem in a verj' high degree the sterling qual­ities of that beolved and human pro­fessor. I have never forgotten his kind and personal attentions to me— Notre Dame has lost a verj' striking personality. 
I wish to extend to his family, to you and to the University, my deep felt condolence for his death and with my best wishes for the welfare of Notre Dame, I am 
Sincerely yours, 
Jose Hemadez Usera. 
San Juan, Porto Rico. 

Among the many who attended the Colonel's funeral were Byron V. Kanaley and John S. Hummer of Chicago. 
Of Father O'Malley, the following: 

Reverend Dominic Kern O'Malley, C.S.C, who died Wednesday after­noon, March 22, in Milwaukee, Wis­consin, was buried from Sacred Heart Church on the campus March 24. He was taken ill a month ago, when he suffered a slight stroke, and was re­moved to Sacred Heart Sanitarium when his condition became compli­cated by a high ner\-ous tension. He suffered another stroke this week, which hastened the end. 
Father O'Malley entered the Uni­versity of Notre Dame in 1899; he succeeded in earning four monograms in football before he was graduated from the Universitv \iith the degree Litt B., in 1903. 
Immediately after graduation Father O'Malley entered St. Joseph's novitiate, later completing his ec­clesiastical studies in Washington. In 1908, the year of his ordination, he was appointed rector of Sorin Hall, a 
position he held until he received the 
Presidency of Sacred Heart College, 
Watertown, Wisconsin. 
About ten years ago Father O'Mal­
ley returned to the University, and 
was made rector of Corby Hall. In 
1931 he was elected superior of the 
Community House but continued to 
meet his religion classes regularly at 
the University. 
Thus, Father O'Malley is dead. But to the hundreds of boys who were in­veigled into checker games, who were awakened by the whir of an ambitious lawnmower, who laughed as "The Plumber," impatient of red tape and delay, made his own hall repairs, he lives on. 
AUGUSTUS F. MEEHAN, '90, died in a hospital in Cincinnati on Saturday, -A.pril 15, and was buried April 17 on the Kentucky side of the Ohio, there. 

Mr. Meehan's long career had car­ried him through the following busi­ness, professional and social affilia­tions,— the presidency of the Ross-Meehan Foundries in Chattanooga; the Monterey Foundry and Manufac­turing Co. of Monterey, Mexico, and the Coahuila Mining and Smelting Co. of Viesca, Mexico; directorship in the Chattanooga Gas & Coke Co., Hamilton National Bank, Meehanite Metal Co., and the Ross-Meehan Foundries; the presidency of the Chattanooga Chamber of Commerce; membership in the American Iron and Steel Institute, the American Society of Mining and Metallurgical Engi­neers, American Society Testing Ma­terials, American Foundrymen's As­sociation, and Calumet Club of New York City, Mountain City Club and Chattanooga Golf and Country Club of Chattanooga, the Tennessee Soci­ety; Sons of the American Revolu­tion; Delta Duck Club of New Or­leans; Izaak Walton Club of Useppa Island; and Hedges Big Game Club of Alaska. His extensive industrial holdings and activity in civic affairs had marked him as largely responsi­ble for the growth and prominence of Chattanooga. He was intensively in­terested in Catholicity and Catholic education and was liberal in his rela­tions with Notre Dame. 
Rev. Lawrence Broughall, C.S.C, represented the University at Mr. Meehan's funeral. 
MARRIAGES 

Union as well as Reunion seems to have marked the Class of '28 for the current season. 
March 24th ROY WORDEN was married to Miss Ruth Jenkins of South Bend. The couple are at home 
Gus F. JIEEIIAN, '90 
at 1012 McCartney St., South Bend. Mrs. Worden is a graduate of Frank­lin College. 

.4.pril 17 JOSEPH P. HILGER was married to Miss Marion Elizabeth Melody in S t Benedict's Church, Phil­adelphia, Pa. 
BIRTHS 

MR. AND MRS. JOHN T. BALFE, '20, New York City, are parents of a daughter, Anita, bom March 5. 
MR. AND MRS. MALCOLM IvNAUS, '26, Detroit, are parents of a daugh­ter, Jean Marie, bom March 6. 
MR. AND MRS. RAYMOND SCHUBMEHL, '21, South Bend, are 
•parents of a son, William Smith, bom April 11. 
MR. AND MRS. JOE ADLER, '24, Joliet, 111., are parents of a daugh­ter, Mary Beth, bom Feb. 27 in Joliet. 
MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM E. VOOR, '25, South Bend, are parents of a daughter, Mary Louise, bom March 2. 
MR. AND MRS. CHARLES LEN­NON, '30, Joliet, 111., are parents of a daughter, Mary Virginia, born Janu­ary 13. 
MR. AND MRS. THOMAS MUR­PHY, '30, Bridgeport, Conn., are par­ents of a daughter, Maura Kathleen, bom March 7. 
MR. AND MRS. JOHN E. MOTZ, '30, Kitchener, Ont., are parents of a son, bom on March 17. 
April, 19SS THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
PERSONALS 
1885 

In view of COL. HOYNES' death, the following letter is especially in­teresting and timely: 
Dear Professor Hoynes: How familiar that sounds to me! It seems like that it was only yester­day, but by the calendar, it has been 44 years, since I addressed you thus. I have had it in my mind for a long time to write you, but every year, I plan to go and see you, and so put off the writing. Today I got, what purports to be a list of the names of graduates from the College of Law. In reading over those names, I miss that of all my classmates. My own name appears in the Geographical list, but not in the Alphabetical list. I think you will recall Thomas Calla­han, James J. Conway of Ottawa, 111. and Henry A. Steis of Winamac, Ind. These three, and myself, made up the graduating class from the law de­partment in June 1885. I regret to say that all are dead, and that I am the only survivor of that class. I had the pleasure of seeing James J. Con­way a few months before he died, in 1926, I saw him just that once and never saw any of the others. It was the more strange to me, that these names were left out of the list, as in a number of the ALUMNUS which I received last week, all their names appeared as graduates, and mine was omitted. In that issue also was a drawing of your familiar features. I also notice that the name of Arthur 
J. Ancheta, of Albuqurque, and Fran­cis X De-xter, of the class of '86 were amongst the missing. Ancheta was shot to death in his home town, where he was prosecuting attorney and Dexter is practicing law in Porto Rico. 
I remember very well, seeing Al­bert Zahm trying to fly one of his flying machines off the top of the Science Hall in 1884. I am now 63 years old and in fairly good health. Am in the real estate business. Do not like the way law is practiced now. I was the first curve ball pitcher at 
N. D. U. You can tell this to "Rock." Mighty glad to know that you are well and still on the job. I have a picture of you and my class, that you may have a copy of, if you wish it. Hoping to see you before long, and that you may enjoy many more years, I remain. 
Affectionately, Jno. D. Willson 
1887 

COL. W. L. LUHN. writes from Portland that he has been trans­ferred to Fort Sam Houston, Te.xas, where his address is 1404 Bracken-ridge Ave. 
1908 A letter comes from RALPH ES­TRADA, of the Cuban Cane Products Co., Inct., Havana, a student at N. D. 1904-06. Senor Estrada is contem­plating entering a son at Notre Dame in September and requested the nec­essary data. 
1917 

A recent issue of the ALUJINUS in­forms me that I have been "elected" (note the quotes) secretary of the Class of '17, and I presume that my duties, for the time being, at least, consist principally of supplying notes about members of this famous war­time outfit. 
John Eiley can't really be blamed for wanting to be shut of his secre­tarial duties, for he is a long way from most of his former classmates 'way up there in Boston. I'm willing to take a crack at the job, but I do not meet former classmates much more frequently than does John, so I will have to have the cooperation of the boys if this column is to be made newsy and interesting. 
Why not drop me a line, at my business address, 520 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, or my home address 104 South Union Street, Elgin, Illi­nois, and tell me what you are doing nowadays, whether you are married, have children, where you live, how you are earning your salt, and what you do for recreation? This request is addressed to every member of the class. And, if you are too modest to tell me about yourself, please tell me about some of the other boys whom you meet occasionally. 
Incidentally, I want to tell "Duke" Riley that I was up in his famous home town last fall for two nights and a day, and if it hadn't been for the miserable squalls which greeted me, I might have, looked him up. 
I see my old room-mate, Elmer Tobin, about once a week. He is one of Elgin's leading barristers, is mar­ried, has a fine young daughter, a dog, and a beautiful home. And is that boy getting to be some bowler? You should see him in action. 
Once in a while I meet Dan Hil­gartner on the street. Dan is with the Chicago Tribune, in Tribune Tower, just across the street from me. Every time we meet, we prom­ise to have lunch to gether, but we seldom get around to it. Dan is one of Notre Dame's most loyal alumni, as everyone around here knows, and probably sees as many of the varsity football games in this section as any­one in the locality. 
The other day, when I was in a bank on Michigan avenue, a distin­guished appearing gentleman stepped up to me and said, "Isn't your name McOsker?" When I replied in the affirmative, he continued, "My name's Curtis." And, sure enough, it was Dan, almost 100 pounds heavier than he was in the days at old N. D. He had recently been ill, but seemed in fine shape when I met him. Dan has a great family, consisting, I believe, of a wife and four children. He is with the Hydrox people. 
Now, that's about all the info can produce this time, but I hope that all the boys ^vill follow my sugges­tion and send me the done on them­selves and those of our classmates whom they meet frequently or occa­sionally. 
Edward J. McOsker. Gerald Cleary, '17, who has been chairman of the Democratic County Committee has been elected to the Democratic State Conunittee in SEch­igan. 
1918 THOILVS C. KELLY, candidate for the Wisconsin Supreme Court, is attracting considerable attention by his campaign. The following editor­ial from the Chicago Tribune of April 1, is indicative: 
"A Milwaukee attorney, Mr. Thom­as C. Kelly, a candidate for justice of the Wisconsin Supreme court, pro­tests against candidates running for that tribunal "solely on the grounds of being what they choose to term a Liberal." 
The rebuke we think is timely not only for the contest in Milwaukee but in the discussion of judicial quali­fication elsewhere. In Wisconsin the word is used obviously to catch the votes of laymen who could not define it intelligibly but think it means something favorable to the poor as against the rich, to the weak as against the strong, to the many as against the few. Mr. Kelly says that "liberality" is an affair of the legis­lature rather than of the judicial branch of government, and he holds that a judge to be qualified must have an understanding of human nature, a knowledge of the law and its practice, and, above all, impar­tiality. 
Mr. Kelly's distinctions are signi­ficant and we think as important as they are sound. It is true that there is in the judicial function the neces­sity of interpretation, and in this field the judge's philosophy of life, his theories of social welfare, his eco­nomic doctrine, his political assmnp­tions or predilections affect his reas­oning in greater or less degree. Mr. Kelly recognizes this when he says that "a change in the personnel of our present court will mean an in­flux of new ideas." Nevertheless, when a man seeks judicial office as a "liberal" he not only offers a very vague test of his merits but suggests that he proposes to usurp the func­
tion of the legislator and, instead of 
seeking impartially to ascertain and 
effectuate the legislative intention, 
will make the law conform to his own 
conceptions of right policy. 
This is contrary to judicial integ­
rity and to the judicial function. It 
is conceded that in a wide field 
judges make the law through inter­
pretation, an unavoidable result and 
in the main conducive to justice. But 
this fact should not obscure the dis­
tinction between the legislative func­
tion of establishing policies and the 
judicial duty of applying them faith­
fully. To run for judicial office as a 
"liberal" is not only deceptive be­
cause the term is vague and without 

legal meaning but it is advertisement .of an intention to invade the legis­lative function and to make law rather than to administer it. 
Yet liberalism, so called, is con­spicuous in the discussion of judges and judicial decisions, and there seems to be a growing assumption that all judges should be "liberals." Liberalism, in this view, now seems to involve a tendency to extend the intervention of government in priv­ate affairs, although what was once called liberalism was opposed to that tendency. It leans hard upon Mr. Justice Holmes' famous dictum that the constitution does not enact Herb­ert Spencer's Social Statics, but it would seem that our liberals would have it enact the opposite doctrines. Whatever one's opinion may be upon that question, we think it is, as Mr. Kelly remarks, a matter for legisla­tive rather than judicial determina­tion and, where the question is open, the duty of the judicial branch of government to ascertain and effectu­ate the intention of the legislative branch rather than to impose its own. 
1922 

Press reports indicate that EAEL WALSH has forsaken his coaching job at Des Jloines to assist Jim Crowley at Fordham. 
In the February ALUMXUS JEE ­EY DIXON launched a scathing at­tack against some of the doings of JOHN PAUL CULLEN and CLETE LYNCH. There is no need to state that both men are Irish and that Dix­on's soothing words would please the above mentioned gentlemen much the same as orange neck-ties would on St. Patrick's Day. Well Clete does not believe the English language is descriptive enough to accurately de­scribe his feelings and hence is in­vestigating some other languages before making his reply to Dix. How­ever, John Paul suppressed his feel­ings until St. Patrick's Day on which day he finally exploded. Our Wash­ington correspondent—J. P. CuUen writes as follows: 
1808 Eye Street N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 
St. Patrick's Day, 1933 Dear Kid: 

It was with some perturbation that I read your recent list of inquir­ies in the ALUJINUS column anent HICK CARMODY'S gol d tooth, TWO-BEER JONES' famous dollar bill, STEINLE'S rat-catching rec­ord, and (of course, most import­ant!) my first baseman's mitt. I had been worrying a little about that ar­ticle myself, recently having received a requisition from the Smithsonian Institute for it. It is to be placed under glass with one of JERRY DIX­ON'S neckties, \'intage 1921. Hark­ing back in my memory, it seems that the last time I saw the sweat stained relic was out at JIM HAYES', here in Washington, and Jim's Boston had it on the back lawn treating it in no uncertain fashion. Employing the most cutting Bostonese, I inquired whether Lex, the dog, knew that the 
mitt he was maltreating had once graced the palm of none other than GEORGE GIPP, and had been e.x­pectorated upon through many a game by BILL FITZGERALD. The Boston's only reply was a doggy in­\atation to play, with the mitt as the piece de resistance. So by means of a pork chop I enticed the relic from his reluctant jaws and endeavored to smooth out the teeth marks from its time worn wrinkles. Then I took it into the house and laid it tenderly on a shelf between two cans of Old Munich malt. There, I believe, it remains, though malt may come and 
go-
Your appropriate question awoke in me another thought—^you know my weakness—and, hurray! this is a poetical one. Back in my salad days when Notre Dame was just a place where my brother was having one fight after another, I penned a poem about an old ball glove. So, after reading your column, I dispatched a letter to Maw Cullen and in reply to my request she sent ine an old almost forgotten scrap book from which I transcribe the poem, whether you like it or not. But knowing your love for the peerless pastime, baseball, and your appreciation of those (you too) who played the game for the game itself and not for the lecherous lucre, knowing this, I believe you will en­joy it. I was a kid then, remember. Seems as if I aspired to the short field berth instead of the initial sta­tion, or perhaps it was just poetic license. Here she is: 
iiry OLD BALL GLOVE 
All of us hold cherished treasures Some are great and some are small: "With some our love we fondly measure, "With others, deeds, we oft recall. 
Here a medal, there a flower. Now a hook' or diary. The lover dreams of some old bower The poet some old reverie. 
As for me there's one old relic A token of sport I used to love. It often makes me melancholic When I see my old hall Klove. 
Floppy and cracked and shiny. With a hole worn throuch the palm Gory and rasKcd and primy. It soothes my hand like a halm. 
See that strap across from the thumb? If s a little newer than the rest: Once a speeding liner ripped it plumb 
Off—but we stopped it, none the less. 
Red hot grounders we would scoop And fling out runners by ten feet. Sometimes the old glove would fairly droop With sweat, but she never missed a beat! 
I used to take it to bed with me. And dream as if with some fond love: Far bigger games those dreams would be. Doggone my old ball glove. 

That last line would be a cracker­jack for Father Crumley to scan, wouldn't it? I gave vent to several unadulterated epithets on reading the column ascribed to that caviling cai­tiff, JEROME FRANCIS DIXON, I warn you, as I warned you many times in the past, beware of that in­dividual. He's altogether too individ­ual. Give him enough rope and he will be emulating that famous at­torney, O'BRIEN one time savior of certain Chicagoans who feared the hempen sling. Or give him enough ink and he'll be saying "me and Dar­row." "By what right," as Judge Vurpillat would say, dare he refer to my 1925 World Flight which term­inated abruptly in Des Moines? And to what fell depth hath our class pet, the Hickory Kid, the pampered dar­ling of Little Egypt, fallen that he connives with the Northwestern play­boy and casts jibes at my \isit to the Home of SHAW and the WALSHES, the Gem of the Mid-West, or in other words, Des Moines? "True, I at­tempted to inveigle the gold-toothed one into a world-wide junket. But Hickory at the time was having too much fun in an intriguing game he was playing out in Chicago's South Side. Not only playing, but being paid for it. By means of a mechan­ical contrivance the operation of which was most foreign to the rule in Shelley's Case, he played at filling the wagon boxes of some two score Negro teamsters with chunks and scoops of south side clay. On further 
inquiry Sir Stephen insisted that it was not a game but work. Whereat, knowing his innate love of labor, I made no additional attempt to be­guile him from his duties. One might as well whistle jigs to a mill wheel. I doubt even if Squire Dixon could have enticed him away. 
As to my trip to Des Moines and the failure of the world jaunt, I need 
April, 1933 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 201 
_.>^^' ' ''''^^rs, ,^c^vt AN ''^^...._Q„^,, NVOWENBR,-, 
,M?i f>^^'^^E ... c^P iH THE r vi^ f™^^^^ccn, 
OM^K /A/ 
-f^-ft O^

,^SS^^^^^^^^^^..O.,...H..i^^^''^^^^••%.OUT^^^^^ 
... this year of all years! 
Europe and You! Get together this year? It's just a matter of dollars and sense, and we've written a book that tells why... full of faas and figures that prove there's a Europe at your price this year. 
Just for instance... many a good hotel room, $1.50 .. . a cabine at some of the smartest beaches, only about 25/ a day .. . a good seat for the finest opera, about |1.50... a gondola for 4 people about 85/ an hour .. . but let our book tell you the whole story. This coupon J< fiAOO bringsittoyou>..'EUROPE.' ^^^^^^ ^— 
y4to/ Europe as you don't inoM' it . . . it's FREE. . . . Of course you can go. Tourist Class 
This message spotisored by the following Transatlantic Steamship Lines: Anchor Line. Canaciian 
Pacific Steamships. Cosulich Line, Cunard Line, French Line, Hamburg-American Line, Holland-
American Line, Italia Line, North German Lloyd, RedSlar Line, UnileilStatcs Line, WhiteStar Line. 
TRANSATLANTIC STEAMSHIP LINES, 80 Broad Street, New York, N.Y. Gentlemeo:—Will you please send me, without obUgation, your free booklet "This Year of All Years." 
>1AME 

' only to quote Gentleman Jim, who has said, "When one has seen Des' Moines, one has seen the world." And I concur with him, for having since seen some of the so-called world, I say to yon. Gentleman Jim, that no­where along the Parisian boulevards did I iind a haunt as sotil-inspiring as the "Knife and Gun Club" to which you and the Walshes intro­duced me. And though I visited Mun­ich, famed home of the light and dark, the memory of Des Moines was not drowned out. And the green quilted fields of Erin even, awoke a vision of Iowa's own. The girls of Des Moines—well-1. . . And in con­clusion let me add that nowhere in the highways and byways among the wits here and there, have I heard a morning after salute that compared with the one that tickled my ear drums that Des Moines morning, namely, "If I was a horse I'd run away today." 
Oh yes, I am thankful for one thing, that Hick did not mention the ten dollars X borrowed of him to get home from Chicago after my return. That might have called forth another Dixonian paragraph. Am I correct in assuming that Hick is the father of a son? And named Timothy? That scoundrel promised me, and I have one Matthew Bettingen of South Bend, purveyor of soda pop and oth­er sundries, to witness, that he would name his son after me. Wait till Timothy grows up. What I won't tell him! 
John Paul 
1923 

"One of the articles in a series running in the Indianapolis News en­titled Meet Your Teacher is devoted to BROTHER WILLIAM, C. S. C, principal of Cathedral High School, the largest Catholic secondary school in Indiana, with an enrollment of 
750. The writer speaks of Brother William's efficiency as principal and of the bond of friendship that exists between him and the pupils. In 1928 he founded the state Catholic High School Basketball Tournament. Brother William was bom at Massil­lon, Ohio, 35 years ago. 
"The decisive victory of Cathedral High School in the recent National Catholic High School basketball tour­nament at Chicago ought to be espe­cially welcome to our alumni, for the faculty of the school—^24 Brothers of Holy Cross — are without exception Notre Dame men. JOE DIENHAET, '27, coach of the winning team, won his ND in football as a guard in 1924." 
1925 

GERALD HOLLAND and JA Y WALZ, '29, are the most recent fig­ures in the limelight with a fox trot that Ted Weems is preparing '•— "Don't Blame the Moon." Music, ap­propriately, by Walz, and words by Holland, whose poetry will be remem­bered from sundry publications 1921­25 A. D. 
1927 
EEV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, has received a card from RAY KER­STING who was enjoying Havana at a hotel next door to the Notre Dame designed national capitol. 
1928 
The alumni Pinkerton boys un­doubtedly will rest easier when they read the following account of a Notre Dame lawyer's recent astuteness: 
"JOE (Obligato) HANEY, recent­ly admitted to the bar in New York, picked up the tail of a case in New­ark, (N. Y.) which several other lawyers had given up. It was a bank case too. A man named Slate, head of a bank that closed last July. . . . He had deeded everything to his wife and swore the deeds were made sev­eral months before the deals he pulled in the bank. They couldn't seem to prove otherwise, and were about to drop the case. This Haney began quizzing around for lack of anything else to do and recognized the paper the deeds were written on as a new kind that he had received samples of shortly before. He traced it to the paper mill and found the particular kind hadn't been made until several months after the date the supposed deeds were written. To­day his man was indicted for per­jury and fraud. He is getting a lot of favorable comment around for working it out." 
1930 
Dear Jim: I have a few items that may be of interest to you and the ALUMNTJS ' readers. 
J. FRANCIS "CHIC" DRISCOLL has found his way back to Boston again. 
FRANK "Dutch" HOLLAND, '28, played with the Boston A. A. Hockey Club in the World's Championship contests this winter. 
JOHN PREECE is completing his medical studies at Yale. 
BILT BRESNAHAN is a Senior in the Harvard Law School and his old roommate, JOE RYAN, is studying law at the Y. SL C. A. school in Col­umbus. 
TOM SHAY, '29, is working here with the Independent Warehouses as a shipping superintendent. 
JIM FRIEL recently married Mar­garet Hart of Plainfield, N. J. Tom Shay was Jim's best man at the ceremony. 
BOB HAIRE stopped off for a vis­it here while on his way to a posi­tion in the Department of Agricul­ture at Washington. Bob is living with DAN BARTON in the Capitol City. Their address is 3118 Mt Pleas­ant street. 
Do you have JAMES L. EIZER, 17 John street, New York City, on your mailing list. He is with the John C. McNamara organization. 
We expect a big crowd at the Uni­versal Night dinner. The Communion breakfast was a success—about 70 there. 
Bernie 
LOUIS HASLEY, who is teaching at Notre Dame, tells us that: 
"RICH.ARD T. SULLIVAN, Class Poet, '30, visited friends at Notre Dame, April 4 and 5. Dick is the beaming father of Mary Jill, bom Feb. 9. He is living in Kenosha, Wis. Recent Notre Dame men will remem­ber him as the author of "The Ghost of Thomas Sloop" produced by the University Theatre in 1931." 
A note was received by the Regis­trar's Office from JOHN R. MAR­CUS who is with the Standard Oil Company in Joliet, Illinois. He in­quired for information about the Col­lege of Law for a friend. 
1931 
DICK BREEN writes from 4867 Kenmore Ave., Chicago asking for CHARLEY PODLASKI'S address, which at our last shifting was, 3953 
S. Rockivell St, Chicago. Dick is working at insurance while finishing up his law at DePaul, where, he says, VINCE CAVANAUGH and JERRY REIDY are also enrolled. He adds: RAY COLLINS is busy learning the intricacies of his dad's printing busi­ness; H. GILBERT SEAJIAN is on the way to becoming an expert insur­ance salesman. . . Dan Williams is teaching English Literature at St. Norbert's College, West De Pere, Wis., and studying summers at Co­lumbia for his M.A. 
MIKE KINNEY of Dixon is now in the Secretary of State's office at Springfield. 
RICHARD S. WALSH is with the testing department of General Elec­tric in Schenectady. 
HAROLD STELZER sends in wel­come word from 4347 W. Adams St., Chicago. Commenting on the scarc­ity of '31 news he says, "No wonder we have nothing to say—some of us haven't enough to get across the city on a street car to see a former Class mate, because after all Classmates are about the only ones we can ex­change our views with and come out with intellectual instead of physical maltreatment. The only one I have had any correspondence with lately is CHARLIE POWERS of Savannah, Ga. After several jobs for the gov­ernment in the engjineering field he finally struck out for himself and now has a contract for laying pipe lines for a new waterworks at Sa­vannah Beach. He says he has a corporation but he is "it," so he won't be able to use any help for the pres­ent CLIFF FISHER is still with us and at present is storing up energy and jig-saw puzzles. He nearly land­ed a good engineering job and may get it yet. At the present I am wait­ing for warm weather so I can sell some sporting goods. That's what I have been doing for the last year for Sears, Roebuck & Co." 
1932 
Dear Jim: May I offer my sincerest apologies for my laxity in neglecting to pro­vide you with a report for the recent issue of the ALUMNUS? I have a legal excuse and that is working daily for a lawyer and attending law school every evening. This, of course, takes up a great deal of my time. In the future, however, I shall endeavor to more Winchellish. I am enclosing a letter from Fran Oelerich which I wish you'd publish. 
I would like to comment at this time upon a portion of Fran's letter before proceeding with my report. In my opinion, Fran's description of Chicago as the World's Fair City is the most accurate I've ever heard. It is a fair city (small f) and there is no doubt as to which is the world's Fairest city. Speaking of New York, we find BEN IHKES at New York University. JIM O'CONNOR is at Fordham Law School. BILL DAR­EOW, MYLES MULLEN and BOB JIARKLAND are at St John's with me. JOHN LEDDY took the bar exam last week. GENE CONNELLY is at M. I. T. when he is not ^usiting in the bailiwick of his home. JIM WARD is sellin g insurance. ED KELLY has some new idea which he wouldn't spill to me. DREW SHIEB­LER is at home. From our own Casa­nova, FRANK MADDEN, across the river, I have not heard. (Hello Frank) Saw RAY BOYCE one day but he didn't see me. 
JOE McKEAN tells me he is prexy of a young men's democratic club in Louisiana. CHARLES CROCKETT is working in a bank. 
C. D. JONES is making speeches, (no news is it?) TED HALPIN is working in Ponchatoula, La. 
I'd like to extend to JAKE BOW­ERS at this time the congratulations of the whole class. He deserves a monogram, as perhaps no other man, within my memory, has worked hard­

April, 19S3 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
er for it. I'm sure the class will be glad to hear that TOM STEELE is back at Notre Dame continuing his studies. Best of luck, Tom. 
To the lawyers of our class at Notre Dame I wish to address my­self. I knoiv you have time on your hands. How about a letter from you —KEMPTER, NELSON, JUDGE , KIEBY, FOLEY, TOM GATELY, McKEVITT, LAUGHLIN, etc., etc. The orchestra on the radio is playing "Two Buck Tim from Timbuctoo!" Reminds me of — "to the Sheriff of Cook County—Gurreetings!" 
Having formally apologized for my laxity in the first paragraph I now wish to shift some of the blame. It's impossible to report unless there is cooperation from the entire class. My news would be merely cumulative and a repetition from month to month. I could refer the readers to an older edition of the ALUJINUS where they can find the news. I need new stuff. How about it? Why don't each of you drop a postcard in the nearest mail­box. I'll be grateful to you and I know the rest of your classmates will be also. 
BADEN POWELL, BOB LEE, BUDD DYNEWICZ, and GEN E CONNELLY have dropped me a note now and then as has ED O'MAL­LEY. Write a note noio—we'll be glad to hear from you. 
Herb Giorgio 
9005 188th St., Hollis, L.L, N.Y. 

Dear Herb: You're a hell of a Class Secretary! Just read through the latest issue of the ALUMNUS and what do I fiind about the class of '32—nothing but a letter from STEEB, telling about some of the boys in the Ohio terri­tory! What did you do — crawl in your hole for the winter? What about some of those New Yorkers—JIM WARD, WILLIE WILLIGAN, GENE CONNELLY, and all the rest of the gang? 
Oh well, you Easterners always were a sleepy lot, but just to show you that I'm just as wide awake as ever, here's a few bits that I've picked up in my wanderings about the World's Fair City these past few-weeks. JACK HOGAN dropped into the office a few weeks ago to sell us some printing. He's with the Cuneo Press. I've had lunch with Jack sev­eral times lately. Also saw JACK "Newt" MATHEWS. Jack irons shirt tails at his dad's Grand Laun­dry. JOHN MULHERN was in the oil business (gas station) all last summer, but he's been taking it easy since then. Had a date with him to meet me for lunch a couple of weeks ago, but as usual, he missed the train from Beverly Hills. 
PHIL DUNLEAVY and GEORGE HIGGINS, those two schemers, are 
Seamaiubtp . . . for 93 years Cunard has set a wurld.renowncil standard fesMon that demands for vigilance, dbKiplincand cfliciency. raeo of character and high calibre. 
c^ CUNARD t^Op 
t o SiiAx>p€ lAKi^uxMi-
Pleasure, luxurious icomfort, rest and §115 up in Cabin Class, §198 up in complete change . . . measure by First Class. Choose a Cunarder for actualjperrfay cost the vacation value your trip to Europe. Any steamship in a Cunard crossing to Europe. Get agent will be glad to arrange your the tangible returns your 1933 dollar Cunard crossing or you may obtain demands... and more! Give yourself^ complete schedules and information at no premium of price, those quali­from Cunard Steam Ship Co., Ltd., ties evolved in Cunard's unsurpassed 25 Broadway, New York. career of 93 years in transatlantic 
SEE YOUR LOCAL AGENT navigation: atmosphere, traditions of NO ONE CAN SERVE YOU BETTER service that assure perfect ease and utmost enjoyment of all tlie lu.\uries and diversions that siuround you aboard a Cunarder. 
It costs you no more to sail Cunard to Europe. §94.50 up in Tourist Class, **BEAL SnP S . . . BEAI. OFnCEBS>* 
The Aquitania. This (treat liner and the Berenicaria, too, have just lxnderBoaeexteiutvealtermtions,ivoTidinftbem 
with niany new outside rooms with private bath .. . the equal of any afloat in modernity and spaciouslazniy. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALTJMNXJS April, 1933 
DIX REUNIONS 
JUNE 2, 3, and 4, 1933 
CLASS SECRETAJUES NOTE! CLASS MEJIBEKS NOTE! 
JIAKE YOUB PLANS ACCORDINGLY! 
The line of years at the top viargin designates the years in which reunions are held. The eobtmn 
of figures doien the left vtargin desiffttates the class year or year of gradztaiion. 
1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 193911940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1939 1939 1938 1938 1937 1937 1936 1936 1935 1935 1934 1934 1933 1933 1932 1932 1932 
1931 

1931 1931 1930 
1930 1930 1929 
1929 1929 1929 
1928 

1928 1928 1928 
1927 

1927 1927 
1926 

1926 1926 1926 
1925 

1925 1925 1925 
1924 

1924 1924 1924 
1923 

1923 1923 1923 
1922 

1922 1922 1922 
1921 

1921 1921 1921 
1920 

1920 1920 1920 
1919 

1919 1919 1919 
1918 

1918 1918 1918 1918 
1917 

1917 1917 1917 1917 
1916 

1916 1916 1916 
1915 

1915 1915 
1914 

1914 1914 1914 
1913 

1913 1913 1913 
1912 

1912 1912 1912 
1911 

1911 1911 
1910 

1910 1910 1910 
1909 

1909 1909 1909 
1908 

1908 1908 1908 
1907 1906 

1907 1907 1907 1906 1906 1906 
1905 

1905 1905 
1904 1905 
1904 1904 
1903 1904 
1902 1903 1903 1903 1901 1902 1902 1902 1900 1901 1901 1901 1899 1900 
1900 1900 1898 1899 1899 1899 1897 1898 1898 1898 1896 1897 1897 1895 1896 1896 1894 1895 1895 1893 1894 1894 1894 1892 1893 1893 1893 1891 1892 1892 1892 1890 1891 1891 
1889 1890 1890 1890 1888 1889 1889 1889 1887 1888 1888 1888 1888 1S86 1887 1887 1887 1887 
1885 1886 1886 1886 
1886 

1884 1885 1885 1885 
1885 

1883 1884 1884 
1884 

1882 1883 1883 1883 1883 1881 1882 
1882 1882 
1880 1881 
1881 1881 
1879 

1880 1880 
1880 
1878 

1879 1879 
1879 

1878 1878 
studying law at Kent JIM IGOE, my ersUvKile Corby room-mate, at­tended Kent for a while, but he fin­ally decided that there was more suc­cess for him in selling Lithography for the James T. Igoe Company, which he is now doing — and quite well. Jim and I have been on a few parties together this winter, and Herb, believe it or not, Jim is darned good protection. You know how tall Jim is—about six feet three. Well, when he gets a big over-coat around him a guy that doesn't know him as well as you and I do might think he's a mass of muscle; so I've been able to do just about anything I please, and as soon as anyone starts to get tough, I quick pour Jim into his big overcoat, and then I stand beside him and say: "Me and Igo'U lick any four guys in the house!" It's worked all except a couple of times. 
My brother, Dick, sees JACK GEDDES every once in awhile in his (Dick's) travels about the vicinity of 71st street. Jack works on LaSalle street which in case you are even dumber than I think you are, is the same as your Wall street, only not so crooked. Jack stole his girl back from me about two months ago. On Sundays Geddes sings in the choir at St. Phillip's church on the South Side, and Herb, if you ever heard Jack murder "My Gal Sal" in the fourth floor shower of St. Ed's Hall, you can imagine the misery that the St. Phillip's parishioners must stand every week! 
Dick works here in the office with me, and he is quickly learning the tastes of the various grades of mol­asses. We had quite a time with him at first, getting him to learn the taste of molasses, because he was so used to tasting that other stuff. Ask BRILL and CONLEY. 
C. BUDD DYNIEWICZ is still working for the Unemployment Re­lief, and those size 14 dogs of his have left their mark on the trousers seat of many the Communist out in the vicinity of Lawrence and Mil­waukee Aves. Dick and I play bas­ketball with Budd every Friday night. Or rather, Budd plays with us. We have a team entered in the North Shore League. The name of our team is the Bahai Temple and we are sponsored by Mahatma Ghan­di. The Newspapers call us Ghandi's Dandies. 
JOHN MATOUSEK, your old roomie, is part of my competition at St. Mary's. The Viper! May the best man ivin, and the devil take the hind­most. 
Was having luncheon with the Notre Dame Club, at Mandel's ,a couple of Fridays ago (isn't that smart—^the Notre Dame Club having 

their luncheon on Fridays) and JOE 
SHEEKETSKI was there. And he 
didn't have on his corduroy pants and 
his monogram sweater! Joe is selling 
coal. Lea%'ing the luncheon, Joe and 
 were walking down Wabash, and who should we meet but another coal man—AL CULVER. Asked him how he's getting along and he said: "Well, I'm managing to eek out three squares a day, but I'm sure glad I have that charge account out in Wil­mette!" 
HANK DONALTY writes to me regularly, and I answer him every time. Why don't you try it, you mope? Hank is in the Insurance busi­ness, with his third eye on an adver­tising position in the near future. Great guy. Hank; I never heard of Utica till I met him. I can't say the same about your home town. Herb, because I had heard of New York before I met you. That's where the Twentieth Century starts from when it comes to Chicago. 
By the time you ne.xt hear from me it is very probable that I will be a liquor dealer. Or at least a beer merchant. At present I am negotiat­ing with one of the better known Brewers for their agency in the North Shore suburbs of Wilmette, Kenilworth, Winnetka, Hubbar d Woods and Glencoe. After I work up a good beer trade, I shall take on wines. Grape Juice to you! 
It Took '32 Via Herb 

For a number of years the Univer­sity has been deluged with com­plaints about professional chiselers who used Notre Dame in one form or another to cover a multitude of sins. It remained for the Class of '32 to put the advice of long standing into practice, as the following clipping from New York indicates: 
"Detective Marco Stolfi of the But­ler street station, Brooklyn, had a busy night last night between taking a prisoner, who says he was the sec­ond mate of the Byrd antarctic expe­dition, out of the girls' club, where he was ransacking a few rooms, and arresting a "college boy" who for two years has made a living posing as a bosom friend and adviser of the late Knute Rockne of Notre Dame. Both are to be arraigned in Adams Street Court. 
"Detective Stolfi had just settled down with his fellow ofiicers in the police station to listen to the first man's tales of the far South when he was summoned to go to St. John's Law School at Schermerhorn and Nevins street. 
"Reluctantly he tore himself away from his prisoner, who by this time was well warmed to his task of nar­rator, and went forth into the rain. 
"At the law school he found Her­bert Giorgio, (secretary of the class of 1932) Magistrate Frank Giorgio's son, with a firm grip upon a black 
Well Herb, if there's anything else to tell you, I can't think of it at the moment so reminding you that my address is still 1201 Greenwood Ave., Wilmette, 111., I'll knock off. 
Fran Oelerich. 

BOB BAVIS, who is attending law school at Indiana U., was at Notre Dame March 19. 
REGIS KUHN drops a note from 5 Hone Ave., Oil City, Pa. He is teaching biology and physical edu­cation at St. Joseph's High School and coaching the football and basket­ball teams. Regis' basketball team, the records show, won 24 of 27 games and got them an invitation to the National Catholic tournament, but the bank holiday kept the team at home. 
The Editor stopped by a recent Chicago Club luncheon and found JOE SHEEKETSKI participating in the weekly get-together (confirmed in Oelrich's letter.) Joe is with the Silver Creek Coal Co., Loomis at 22nd St. He was back at his old post at right half for the New-Old spring football game and showed a few of the new boys what a Notre Dame right halfback does for a liv­ing, looking, in spite of Chicago Club lunches, to be in better shape than most of his teammates in residence at N. D. 
Giorgio To Do It 
sweatered, curly haired, large framed youth who at the station house said he was Frank Williams, 24 years old, with no home and no job. 
"Williams appeared at the school as its students were lea\ing and, 
gaining the attention of a small group, told them confidentially that the sweater he was wearing, bearing the letters N.D., he had won on one of the famous Rockne teams. Finding himself temporarily embarrassed for funds and wishing to get back to school, he was willing to part with it for bus fare. 
Giorgio, suspicious, called th e police. 
Williams admitted to the police that the closest he ever had been to Notre Dame was in a factory where the football team's sweaters were made. He had become familiar with the names, weights and builds of the players through the orders for cloth­ing, he said, so when he lost his job he decided to capitalize upon his knowledge. 
With a dozen sweaters in a trunk he went to Baltimore. To the high school students there his story seemed logical and they raised a fund of $30 to get him back to school. He was just as successful he said in Wash­ington, Albany. Perth Amboy and Staten Island. The sweaters cost him $1, he said. 
He was charged with vagrancy. 
sotne 

COOK'S 
current ottering^ 
PRE-EMINENT VALUES 

B'aiui crnuse to SoHihem EuB^ope^ ^IFeiiiterraMeaM^ 
jRlf.VA*l#V Luxurious cruising through July and August in the great 33,000 ton ROMA of the Italian Line . . . 14,090 miles .. . to ports that reach from Madeira east­ward to Odessa and Yalta on the Russian coast of the Black Sea .. . from Cannes, Venice and the Dalmatian Coast southward to Port Said. Sails from New YtHrfc July 1, returns August 22. Rates without shore excursions are only $300 up. Tourist Class, S550 up. First Class, $5.70 up per day .. . 2-1/lOc per mile! Comprehensive illustrated folder on request. 
Vnivc»\^iiy Vacation Tours 
to M^HVOpe Tours personally conducted by eminent educational leaders thoroughly versed in the customs, history, art and literature of the countries visited. Sailings Tourist Class in famous express liners and uItra-mo<lcrn cabin ships. IVfany unusually attractive itineraries, short and long. Rates extremely reasonable. Send for your copy of ''University Vacation Tours" and get the complete details. 
Popular Tours to Europe 
Unsurpassed for value . . . tours expertly conducted by members of our own stalT. .. great variety of fascinating itineraries to choose from. Many include travel by private motor. All are admirable in their choice of hotels and transportation, in. their selection of routes for your enjoyment. Ask for the booklet ''Popular Tours to Europe." 
For anything in Travel make it a point to consult IIS . . . there is no obligation. 
COOKS 
THOS. COOK & SON 
WAGONSLITSINC. 
587 Fifth Avenue, New York 

Philadelphia Boston Baltimore Waahingtoa Chicago St. Louis San Franoaco Los Angeles Toronto Montreal Vancmuver Mexico dxj 
AGENTS FOR ALL STEAMSHIP LINES 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Glen Smith, '27, 832 Elmore Ave.. Akron. President; C. G. McGuckin. '2S. Medina Road, Akron, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Barry, '97. 82 W. Penninsrton St., Tucson, President: Steve Rebeil, '25, 620 N. Sixth St., Tucson, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1326 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02, Dac­ca, President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C, Dacca, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Charles Crowley, '21. 40 Mill St., Dor­chester, Mass, President; James R. Doo­ley, '22, 363 Main St.. North Andover. ' Mass., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. '27. 86 Liberty St., Bridseport, Conn, (temporary chairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. Hoeffler, '25. 280 Woodward Ave., BtilTalo. President; Edmund J. Lutz, Jr., '24, 91 Beard Ave., Buffalo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAira CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. 
•23, 55521 Vine Ave., Harvey, Illinois, President; William R. Dooley, '26, 211— 167th St.. Calumet City. Illinois, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITOL DISTRICT—John J. Meichan, President; 
F. L. Duquette. '28, 1074 Glenwood Blvd., Schenectady, N. Y., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— Austin McNichoIs. '17. c. o. W. A. Alex­ander & Co.. 134 S. L.iSaIle St.. Presi­dent : William P. Kearney, '28. 507 County Bld^.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert Hudhes. '29, 3565 Burch Ave.. President: W. D. Morrisscy. '26, Cath­olic Charities Bureau, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —^Thomas F. Byrne. *2S, 750 Huron Rd.. President; Clayton G. Leroux. 3356 Daleford Road. Heights Branch, Cleve­land, Sccretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran­ficld. '13, State BIdK., 1200 Main Street. Sprinsfield, Mass,, President; James A. Curry, '14, 647 Main St., Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift. '24, 422 Inter­urban Bid?., Dallas, President; Francis A- McCullough, '30, Dallas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer. '08, 512 Mutual Home BIdg., Dayton, President: Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 210 Le-xincton Ave., Dayton, Secretary*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickcy, '28, 1515 Grant St.. Pres­ident ; O. L. HouKh. '27. 1575 Race St.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22, Des Moines Catholic CoUejre, President; Charles H. Lynch, 
•28. 1429 - 13th St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John E. Moore. '08, Third Floor, Gen­eral Motors Bldg.. Detroit, President; Paul J. Dooley, '25, 5202 Hamilton Ave., Detroit, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLmiBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn, El. '12, 
151] R. L Ave., N. W., WashinKton, President: James D. Hayes, 5115 Eighth St., N. W.. Washington. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley. •17. Erie Daily Times. President; Thomas Barber, ^24, 416 Newman St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin, •Ol; 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman. '30. Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24, City Engineers' Office, Cits- Hall, Green Bay. Wis.. Presi­dent: Levi A. Geniesse. '24, 610 Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS, jnCH.-George E. Lndwig. '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W., President; Ray­mond J. Bonini, '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., 
S. E., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAJIILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St., President; Marc A. Fiehrer, "27, 701 Rentschler Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich., President: Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette, Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston, Te-xas, President: T. F. Green, Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby. '29, 1901 N. Merid­ian. Indianapolis. President: John T. Rocap, '30, Fidelity Trust Bldg., In­dianapolis, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF JOLIET— Charles Lennon. '30. G05 Herkimer St.. President; Thomas Fcclcy, '32. 316 Buell Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANS.A.S CITY —Daniel F. Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave., Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John 
M. Dugan. '27, 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gcbert, '30, U. of Kansas. Wich­ita, President: Dan Wclchons. '30, 306 
E. 13th St.. Hutchinson. Kansas, Scc'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— 
H. R. Dempf. '23. 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg., Louisville, President: Wm, A. Reisert. '30. c/o Reisert Ins. Agency, 352 Starks Bldg., Louisville, Secretary. 
NOTRE DASIE CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —^William B. Chawgo. '31, Northwestern Mutiml Life Insurance Co., 303 Graham Bldg., Aurora. 111., Secretary pro tern. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE, INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. "18, 1507 Indiana Ave.. Laporte. President: Nor­man Duke, '33, 304 Niles St., Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES ^John W. Wadden. '07, 414 Associated Realty Bldg., Los Angeles, President; Laurence A. Moore. '29. 1463% S. Bed­ford. Los Angeles, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­jnSSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. •88, 307 Camp St., New Orleans, President; Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr., ^28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24, c/o Ayala & Cia. 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave.. President. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE 
—William J. Redden. '14. 3525 W. North Ave., Milwaukee, President; Paul Brust, 
•28, 135 W. Wells St., Milwaukee, Secre­tary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen. '96. 435 Clark St.. Helena. President; James B. O'Flynn, "11, Great Falls, Mont., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Willi.-uns, Jr., "29, 106 Gal­latin Rd., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Gerald J. Barret. '22, 315 S. 37th St., Omaha, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY —Russell Riley, '28, National Newark & Essex Bldg., Newarak, N. J., President: Joseph Nulty, '27, 945 Madison Ave, Elizabeth, N. J., Secretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—John E. Kcnney. '21. care Foster Wheeler Corp.. 165 Broadway, New York City, President: J. Norbert Gelson, '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn. 
N. Y., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA —John S. Mclnnes. '22. 1855 Sacramento Street. San Francisco, President: Mark Kreutzer, '24, 311 Cali­fornia St., San Francisco. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. O'Neil, '83. Army Recruiting Station, Second and Washington Sts., Portland, President: L. Bernard Macnab, '25, Terminal Sales Bldg,, Portland, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '16, Hosier Realty Bldg., Columbus, Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea, o. s., '09, 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank, Tulsa, President: Leo A. Schumacher. *13. King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP PHILADEL­PHIA—Robert Reagan, '24, 502 Cecil St. Cinonsburg, Pa.. President: Harry H. Francis, Jr.. '30, 15 Spring Ave., Ard­more. Pa., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —John A. Noppenberger. '25, 223 Head­ing Ave., Peoria, President: Leo Cav­anaugh, '24, 907-10 Jefferson Bldg., Peoria, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thomas Ashe. 'SI. 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, President; Raymond D. Downs, '26, 46 Clinton Ave., S., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY-Sherwood Dixon. '20. 120 E. First St., Dixon, 111., President; J. Wil­lard Jones. ^25, 122 Crawford Ave.. Dixon, m.. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.«IE CLU B OF RHODE ISLAND—Charles A. Grimes, '20, Para­mount Bldg., Providence, President: Cy­ril A. Costello. ^29, 44 Huxley Ave,. Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—P.iul M. Butler. ^27. 802 I.O.O.F. Bldg.. South Bend. Indiana, President: Norman J. Hartzer. '29, 843 Forest Ave., South Bend, Indiana, Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo SuUifle. "24, 2701 So. Grand. Presi­dent; Robert Hellnmg, '30, 7214 North-moor Drive, University City, Mo., Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

April, 193S THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 207 
Local Alumni Clubs 
(Continued) 

NOTKE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrineton. *25. Continental Mortgage Co., President. 
NOTKE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—George 
L. Kinney, "20, 1919 S. State St., Syra­
cuse, President; Vincent Brown, '23. 1814 James St.. Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan. '27. 240 
E. Huisacke Ave.. San Antonio. Texas. President: Kirwin J. Williams. '28. IDS 
E. Rosewood. San Antonio. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St. President: Fred J. Wagner, '29. 152 Sycamore St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Mr. John Q. Carey, '27. 2514 Chase St, Toledo. President; Fred A. Sprenser, 3129 Kimball Ave.. Toledo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CITIES—Richard B. Swift '20, Kohl BldfiT., Davenport. la.. President; Henry 
M. McCulloUBh. '20. 26 McCullough Bldff.. Davenport, la.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CI­TIES—Allen H. Mahar. '28. 63 Arch St. Johnson City. New York, President: John D. O'Loughlin. 'o.s.. 24. 506-7 People's Trust Company BIdg.. Bing­hamton, N. Y.. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— John J. Doyle. '28. 414 2nd Ave., S., Minneapolis. Minn.. President: Robert Fogerty. '28. College of St. Thomas, S t Paul. Minn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady, '24. 206 Keams BIdg., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har­becke, '19, 64 F. St. Salt Lake City, Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—NoHe Kizer. '25. Purdue Uni­versity. Lafayette. Ind.. President: Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA —Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethlehem. Pa.. Temporary Chair­man; Charles B. McDermott '27. Allen­town. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF -WESTERN PENNSYLV.VNLV—John C. Sheedy. '28. 5540 Bryant St, Pittsburgh. President: John B. Reardon, '22, 715 Union Bank BIdg., Pittsburgh, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon. 
o.s. '02; Stimson BIdg.. Seattle. Wash.. President; E. Morris Starrett 'I4-'21. El. '23. 801 Washington St. Port Town­send, Wash.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY -George A. Gaffney. •98-'99. 54 Park PI.. Waterbury, Conn.. President; James 
M. Monaghan. '27. 44 Ayer St. Water­bury, Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling. Presi­dent; George Sargus. '28. 2111 Belmont Bellaire. Ohio. Secretary. 

THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P.. Mt St. Marj'-on-the-Hudson. Newburgh. New York. President; Miss Rose Stef­faniak. 161 Walnut St.. Coldwater, Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank. President; Norman Smith. '24, 126 Roslyn Dr., Secretary. 
List of Class Secretaries 
Year Name 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Filchburg. Mass. 1880-85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson Circleville, Ohio 
1886 Michael O. Bums 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier 1888 John L. Heineman 1889 P. E. Burke 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell 1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 1896 William P. Bums 
1898 Wm. C. Kcgler 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 1900 John W. Eggeman 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1902 C. C. Mitchell 1903 Francis P. Burke 1904 Robert Proctor 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 1906 Thomas A. Lally 1907 T. Paul McGannon 1908 Frank X. Cull 1909 E. P. Cleary 1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1911 Fred L. Steers 1912 B. J. Kaiser 1913 James R. Devitt 1914 Frank H. Hayes 1915 James E. Sanford 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 1917 Edward J. McOskcr 1918 John A. Lemmer 1919 Clarence Bader 1920 Leo B. Ward 1921 Aldcn J. Cusick 1922 Gerald Ashe 1923 Paul Castner 1924 James F. Hayes 1925 John W. Scallan 1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 1927 Edmund DeClercq 1928 Louis Buckley 1929 Joseph McNamara 1930 Bernard W. Conroy 1931 John E. Boland 1932 Herbert Giorgio 
338 S. Second St, Hamilton, Ohio 
Ludington, Michigan 
Connersville, Indiana 301 Camp St, New Orleans. La, 
7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minnesota 
The New York Times, New York City 
860 Phelan BIdg., San Francisca Calif. 
327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana 
1897 Rev. John A. MacNamaraSt. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mount Clemens, Michigan 
9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 418 Jefferson BIdg.. Peoria. Illinois 1201 First National Bank Bide., Fort Wayne, Ind. 1300. 139 N. aark St. Chicago. Illinois 110 S. Dearborn St, Box 3. Chicago, HI. 904 Trust Company Bide.. Milwaukee, Wisconsin Monger BIdg.. Elkhart. Indiana 10 S. LaSalle St.. Chicago. Illinois 811-13 Paulsen BIdg.. Spokane. Washington Bar BIdg.. 36 W. 44th St. New York City Buckley BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 
P. O. Box 356, Momence, Illinois 527 Bcall Ave.. Wooster, Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bids., Chicago, Illinois 324 Fourth St , Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 921 Engineers BIdg., Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicago. Illinois 1033 S. Linden Ave.. Highland Park. 111. 708 First Trust BIdg.. Hammond. Indiana 104 S. Union St.. Elgin. Illinois 1110-8th Ave.. S.. Escanatm, Michigan 650 Pierce St, Gary, Indiana 1012 Black BIdg., Los Angeles, California 1 Park Ave.. New York City 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, New York 313 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend. Indiana Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State BIdg.. N. Y. City Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St., Chicago, HI. 38 N. 12th St, Newark, New Jersey 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago. Illinois 718 E. Corby St. South Bend. Indiana 231 Wisconsin St . Indianapolis. Indiana 1055 Park Ave.. New York City 3624 Chestnut St. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 9005 188th St . Hollis. L. L, New York 
District Governors 
District Name , 
I Frank E. Hering 

n John W. Costello III John P. Murphy IV William J. Redden 
V Don P. O'Kecfe VI John H. Neeson VII Ambrose O'Connell VHI Gerald A. Ashe IX Hon. Wm. J. Granfield X Hilton Goodwyn XI Harry Mehre 
XII W. N. Bosler Xn i Twomey Clifford XIV Arthur T. Simpson 
XV John L. Corley XVI Walter Duncan XVII Hon. Albert J. Galen XVIII Raymond M. Humphreys XIX Terence B. Cosgrove XX Dr. J. M. Toner XXI Emmett Lenihan 
XXII C. C. Fitzgerald 
Ad^esz 

Dean BIdg.. South Bend. Ind. 57 E. 21st St . Chicago, HI. Terminal Tower. Cleveland. Ohio. 3525 West North Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis. Chev. Motor Co.. General Motors BIdg.. Detroit Mich. City Hall Anne-t. Philadelphia. Pa. 
1600 Broadway. New York City. 
226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester. New York 
1200 Main St, Springfield. Mass. 
2110 East Grace St. Richmond. Va. 
University of Georgia. Athens. Ga, 
1001 Heybum BIdg., Louisville. Ky. 
Camden. Arkansas 
208 Southwestern Life Bids., Dallas. Texas. 4463 Lindell, S t Louis. Missouri. 658 First St. La Salle. HI. 435 Clark St, Helena. Mont 1423 R.ice St. Denver. Colo. Los Angeles Athletic Qub. Los Angeles. Calif. No. 1 Terrace Drive. San Francisco, Calif. 
County-City BIdg., Seattle, Wash. 
La Metropolitana, 242. Havana. Cuba. 
y the way, you know '? fnends sometimes o£fer me l Chesterfields, and about the 
•;-JI only thing they say is, "I be­[relieve you'll enjoy them!" 
\ 
© 1933, LIGGETT & MYEHS TOBACCO CO . 











