The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

Congratulations from a Champion to a Champion 
Cy-'O Notre Dame and Knute Eockne, Builders of Champion football teams, Stude­
-* baker, Builder of Champion motor cars, extends congratulations. Your magnifi­cent Stadium is a reward well won. It is as much a symbol of courage and sportsman­ship as the Gold and Blue itself. It is a credit to the University, and to South Bend, as well. May it echo often to the triumphant strains of "The Victory March"! 
STUDEBAKER 
Buildei's of Chai7ipio?is 
B 
lllllltllNtltllllllHIMIIIMItllllllininilMIUIIMIItllllllllllllilllllllllllltllllllllltlllllltlltllltllltlltllltlltll ..Q 

THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND. OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Designers of the New Notre Dame Stadium 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 


Twenty-nine Stadiums and Athletic Fields Fifteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FTJRNISH REFERENCES 
•iniiiiiiiiiMiatiMiiiuiuiiitiiiiiiiii 
B 
•lllllllllllllllllll llllllllllltlllllllllltllttlllltlMlllllltllltlltlKMIIIKIIDIII imill itQ 


ALUTH-PROUTY COMPANY 
AND 

DANVILLE MALLEABLE IRON DIVN 
DANVILLE, ILLINOIS 
STANDARD PRODUCTS IN DAILY PRODUCTION Door Hangers and Hinges — Airport and Garage Door Hardware industrial and Fire Door Hardware — Overhead Carriers -- Rolling Ladders 
STADIUM SEAT BRACKETS Pitching Shoes and Stakes — Stampings -- Machine Work Certified Malleable Iron Castings 
IRON 
Flitimmmum""""""'" IIMIUIIIIIMIIIIIII IIIIIMIUIIMIHIIlillMtllMIMIIMIUIIUIMtlMIIMIItllUIH MIKIIIItlll Hllllitlll •Illllll •Illlllllfal 

fSlniiiinitiiitnitumummi llllllllNDUMIIMIMIIinl B 


Notre Dame Guests ' 
when in South Bend make their home at the 



OLIVER HOTEL 
350. ROOMS 

The center of all activities 
EXCEPTIONAL REFINED SERVICE HOSPITALITY 
CENTRALLY LOCATED and CONVENIENT TO ALL TRANSPORTATION 
Three excellent restaurants with added facilities during all big games offer the best meals obtainable in the city 
ANDREW C WEISBURG  J. W. MISAMORE  
Manaser  Ass"t Manager  
llllltlltlMllltllllMMtllllllUUIIIII  





THE STANDARD OF COMPARISON 
ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT WILL IMPROVE YOUR GAME 
Football • Baseball • Golf • Tennis • Basketball - Track • Swimmins Boxins • Soccer • Volleyball • Handball • Gymnasium 
WILSON-WESTERN SPORTING GOODS CO. 
NEW yORK CHICAGO SAN FRANCISCO 
October. 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


COMMENT 
This issue of the ALUMNUS rep­resents what the magazine would like to do more often, but what time and expense will not permit. However, the dedication of the new Notre Dame Stadium brings to Notre Dame men such a wealth of tradition, of memo­ries and of Notre Dame spirit that the ALUMNUS could not overlook this opportunity. 
Unfortunately, the few pages that follow cannot begin to portray ade­quately the march of football years since 18S7, years that have filled Scholastics, Domes, and the nation's press with uncounted columns of gloiY. We only hope to have gath­ered here some of the stories, some of the characters, some of the underlying principles, that have made these cir­cumstances so. 
The Editor wishes to e.\press his appreciation to Professor Cooney's feature writers, 1929-'30, from whom came many of the interesting features in this issue. It is good for Notre Dame men to have learned and written of these things. It is good for Notre Dame men to read them. 
The Editor and Mr. McDevitt, the Advertising Manager, also take this occasion to thank the advertisers who have come into this issue. While we feel that Notre Dame men appreciate to the point of patronage the various commodities and services these adver­tisements represent, the fact remains that this advertising defrays an e.\­pense of publication and illustration that the ALUMNUS, alone, could not afford. The results to us and to our advertisers we trust will be mutually profitable. 
Seeing is more than believing with the new Stadium. It is being incul­
0" "B 
IN TtilS IXXUE 
The New Notre Dame Stadium--Frontispiece 
This Football Phenomenon, by Bev. C. L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.__ 39 
University Dedicates New Stadium-42 
Notre Dame's Football Poetry, by John H. Sheehan. 46 
Believe It Or Not, by James Carmody 48 
Georgi Gipp, by Harry Sylvester, Jr.. 49 
Cartier Field, by William Magarrall 50 
Notre Dame Coaches "Who's Who," by E. Morris Starrett-51 
Notre Dame's First Football Team, by Frank Svoboda 53 
The Five Miller Brothers, by John J. Raleigh -. 54 
Trafiic Routes to New Stadium (Map) : 56 
Coaches Before Rockne, by John Weidler_ 82 
Notre Dame's Football Captains, by Robert Balfe_ 84 
What Makes Notre Dame Football, by Richard Connelley 88 
The Four Horsemen, by Walter Dillon 91 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of sinsle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the -Act of March :J, 1897. All -correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
MEJIEER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLEY L . MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAJIES E. ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President i FRANK E . HERING, '98 ---President | HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, '13 Vice-President | JAMES E . ARJISTRONG, '25 --Secretary | WALTER DUNCAN, '12 ---Treasurer i GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 Director i 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director i 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director = 
PETER P. MCELLIGOTT, '02 Director | JOHN W. EGGEMAN, 'CO {ex officio) Director i 
iminiitmiitiiitniimnnimnntminnMimintniFl 

H .." • • •••" • ' ' 
cated with an eagerness to go out and more than a clear view of Notre 
convert others to the same enthusi­Dame's football games. It is going 
asm. This is a football stadium, to give thousands of people, for the 
built for the nation's leading football first time, a clear view of Notre 
team. It is a fitting home. Beauty Dame. 
is combined with practical features to 
a degree unbelievable to those who 
have experienced the disadvantage of Just come down for a game—prob­so many stadia. 
ably by the time you read this you will have seen a game. Even the Notre Dame men on the campus are This is not the editorial page, but enthusiastic about the new structure. 
the thought cannot be resisted that That, to the informed outsider, is 
the new Stadium is going to give eulogy indeed. 





TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume IX. OCTOBER, 1930 No. 2 
THIS FOOTBALL PHENOMENON 
By Reverend Charles L. ODonnell, C.S.C. 
(Following is reprinted, for the first time, the outstamling address which the president of the University of Notre Dame delivered at the annual civic testimonial football banquet of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Jo­seph Valley in the University Dining Halls on December 4. 1920. Even the introductory remarks of a year ago are so nearly applicable to airrent conditions that the address is pre­sented in its entirety. EDITOR'S NOTE.) 
I
~"HE character of this celebration has been fittingly widened by the turn that football events have 

taken this year, and by the turn events have taken here tonight. Not only are we paying tribute to Notre Dame, but we are rejoicing that other universities in this State have achieved a notable success in the great college game of football. While some of our rivals are reciting with more or less appropriate pride the short and simple annals of the pure, Notre Dame and Purdue are modestly accepting national honors, and Purdue is champion of the Big Ten, while Indiana is celebrating its close shave at Northwestern. What the future may hold in store, none of us can know, but I am sure I voice the senti­ment of a good part of this gathering when I express the hope that, next year, business conditions may improve for the barbers in Bloomington. 
Doing my part officially—and doing it with great good will—to help honor Mr. Rockne and all our coaches and our incomparable team in celebrating the close of the football season, I am also celebrating personally tonight; I am celebrating the close of the foot­ball ticket season. These somewhat premature gray hairs of mine, gentle­men, are not due to worries over insufficient endowment, or to the in­adequate facilities of our physical plant, or to any one of a number of other grave concerns that should weigh more or less heavily upon me. 
No, it's the annual beating which all of us in some degree, but nobody more than myself, must take in this matter of football ticket demands, made by all sorts and conditions of men, who find only on the eve of a game that they are going to be able 
REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
President of the University 

to contribute their presence as part of the public attraction. That's what has bowed my head and slowed my step. The only comfort there is in this extremity comes from the reflec­tion, that if there were no demand for tickets, matters would be still worse. Personally I don't get any great comfort from that reflection: it is too much like a choice between being boiled in oil, and being boiled— the result, in any case, is that one gets hard-boiled. 
And let me at this time say a word in passing, of those supporters who think that buying football tickets is proof of their loyalty to their alma mater, whatever school that may be. I like that word "supporters." Sup­porters hold up trousers, one suppor­ter for each leg. And football sup­porters might remember that when they buy football tickets they con­tribute just as much to the support of the school of their opponents as they do to their own school. Nobody criticises that condition. One simply calls attention to a fact. At the risk of making myself perfectly clear, let me say that a Wisconsin alumnus and a Notre Dame alumnus, purchasing tickets for a Wiseonsin-Notre Dame game, are a pair of good suspenders —I don't say good spenders—^for both universities equally. 
This football phenomenon—and that is what football has become in Amer­ica—strikes me as being something like the elephant, which, in the old story, the blind men went to see. One of the blind men, stumbling against the elephant's side, said, "I perceive the elephant is very like a wall." An­other, happening to catch hold of the elephant's trunk, opined that the ele­phant was like a tree; while, to an­other, who happened to catch hold of the animal's tail, the elephant ap­peared much like a rope. Now foot­ball is like that. How you regard it will depend upon what aspect of it you single out and concentrate upon. For example, some critics insist, not­ing only the crowds that attend games, that football is nothing but a great spectacle that has got away from the colleges and become public property. Others, looking only at the gate receipts, maintain that football 
is just a great money-making busi­ness. Others still, regarding it from an inside academic point of view, af­firm that football is the great ob­stacle to the fundamental purpose of college life, which is study. I am far from admitting that any one of these points of view is so well justi­fied as any one of the descriptions which the blind men gave of the ele­phant. 
40 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
Take the matter of attendance at football games. It is certainly true that tiventy-five years ago, there was no large football public. Attendance at games was limited practically to the student body and alumni of the colleges playing the game. This year, Notre Dame has played to a to­tal attendance estimated at well over a half million people. The reason for this is not to be found in publicity bureaus maintained" by the colleges, as the Chicago Tribune editorially suggested a week or so ago. Nor is it to be found in the much better publicity donated by the newspapers themselves through the sen'ices of such experts as Warren Brown, Grant-land Rice, Lawrence Perry, and the other chiefs of sport writers. It is 
•not to be found either, "to my way o' thinkin'," in any such incidental detail as the forward pass, or in the general opening up of the game, as it is called. All these agencies, no doubt, contribute their influence to swell the crowd; but the real reason, in my estimation, is farther still to seek. 
That reason is, as I view it, that in these past tsventy-five years, the colleges have, so to speak, grown tremendously on the outside as well as on the inside. Twenty-iive years ago, the number of students enrolled in the colleges and universities of the United States did not total 250,000. Today there are annually graduated from our colleges and universities more than 250,000 students, while the total number of students enrolled is well beyond a million. Today, more than 10% of all Americans of college age are in college, university, or col­legiate-ranking professional schools. 
Consider what this means on the outside of the colleges. More than a million students in school means from two to ten times that number of persons directly interested in the schools these students attend, — par­ents, brothers, sisters, friends, to say nothing of aunts. A quarter of a million graduates a year. Multiply this by the number of their business and professional associates, and you get some idea of another branch or source of interest in collegiate activ­ities. Exclusive, however, of these adventitious contacts and connections, the fact is that the purely collegiate public, made up of college students and college graduates, has, in the past twenty-five years, increased 300%. In the great crowds attending foot­ball games today, there is, undeniably, a certain percentage of spectators who never slept through a class in philosophy, but they are far in the minority. To begin with, by reason of preferential systems of ticket-selling, it is difficult for them to get into the games. By far the largest 
number of the immense throngs of football spectators are people of col­legiate background and experience. For example, of nine men in my box at one game this year, only one, be­sides myself, was a Notre Dame alumnus, not one was an alumnus of the rival school w^hom we were play­ing, but all were college graduates. The point of all this is that the game has not got away from the colleges. It has not gone over to some vast, indeterminate, heterogeneous mob, known as the general public. The football public, owing to a 300% in­crease in college attendance, and a like increase in the number of college graduates, is still, in the main, what it always was, a college crowd. 

Football brings in revenue and makes a net profit. It is perhaps the only college activity that does, outside of what are termed "hotel features," conducted in connection with boarding schools. Given a certain large volume of business, the net profit, according to published reports, is about 50%, remembering that football must take care of all intercollegiate and all in­tramural athletic activities. What be­comes of the surplus? Usually, it goes back into the plant, into playing fields, field houses, gymnasiums, sta­diums. It has not always done that at Notre Dame, for these very good reasons: we have never charged against athletics a purchase price for the ground space they occupy, nor 
have we charged a rental on the use of this land. The gymnasium was built, and rebuilt after its destruction by fire, out of funds that did not come from athletics. Until well along in Jesse Harper's regime as Director of Athletics here, all forms of athletics were alw^ays in the red. That is to say, for a long stretch of thirty years or more, before Harper's time, an athletic deficit was overcome only by the use of revenue derived from other sources, no doubt to the curtailment of the University's expansion in other directions. And, if in the past few y^ears, some surplus athletic revenue has been put to uses other than ath­letic, that is only the payment of a just debt, outstanding for many years against the Department of Athletics, only a fair restoration of the balance. If football were a show-business, pure and simple, as the editors of the Chicago Tribune allege, Notre Dame would never build a stadium. Eco­nomically, a stadium means a tremen­dously increased overhead, and it means an investment of ?750,000.00 lying idle for all but four or five afternoons of the year. Three college games can be played in Chicago on one and the same day, and three sta­diums be filled, largely because of that collegiate public of which I have already spoken. It remains to be seen just how often in the course of 
a season a crowd of 54,000 will fill the stadium at Notre Dame. There is no question but that, from the mere financial point of view, building and operating a stadium is not the money­making scheme it is represented to be. Obviously, it has other undeniable advantages that do not enter into this discussion. 
Finally, there is the scholastic as­pect of football. Contrary to the com­mon opinion, there has been in the past few years a general raising of academic requirements. As a result of this, right now, one-sixth of the entire enrollment at Notre Dame are on probation. That is not an unusual result of the first quarterly tests, since the majority of these are fresh­men. . It means that unless these students, at the term examination, come up to requirements in their studies, they will be dropped from the University for low scholarship. Four-fifths, or more, of these back­sliders will make the grade. There is no discrimination here in favor of students who take part in athletics as against those wiio do not. Even the sternest critics of the situation do not make this charge. They know that the athlete is subject, if any­
thing, to keener scrutiny on the score of his classes than is the non-athlete. They say rather that, notwithstanding all the alleged improvement, stand­ards are so deplorably low generally it is no credit to any student to keep up in his classes. 
These critics overlook or ignore one important, and I think, the most important aspect of the whole ques­tion. College is not merely a school; it is a life. It is a school-life, of course, and the major emphasis, I af­firm, is, as it ought to be, on study. But even if it were not, if football interest ran away with one-quarter of the year, then, I say, there are ever so many worse things that could hap­pen to a school, and, in my opinion, would happen to a school if that healthy outlet for young energy and enthusiasm were closed. There are more things in heaven and earth—in the college heaven and earth, for it is a combination of the two—than are dreamed of in the philosophy of foun­dations for the advancement of col­lege statistics. Man is not all mind; he is a creature of flesh and blood; he has a heart, and the heart, too, must be schooled in a curriculum which life itself supplies in those four years crowded with wonder which make up the college career of the student today. There are intan­gible realities^ there are imponderable values of which your carefuUest stat­istician never in the nature of things can take account. Two and two make four, and the college student -will 
learn that lesson through whatever complexities the formula may be ex­
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
tended. But there is another mathe­matics, a madder, wilder learning, more divine and nearer to the source of truth. It is that lesson which the heart learns of life itself, — it is honor, it is chivalry, it is loyalty, it is love; it is dedication and consecra­tion of self to ah ideal and a cause, even though in the particular prem­ises that cause is only the elementary one of winning a football game for sake of the school. 

Two and two make four, but one and ten do not merely make eleven, when that one is Captain John Law and the other ten are the men of his team, fighting for the honor of their school. When it comes to that, you pass out of the prosaic world of rude and common calculation into "an ampler ether, a diviner air" where the impossible dreams that sway mankind become breathing realities. In that realm, forever living, dwell the custodians and the exemplars of our human heritage of valor and vir­tue — Sparta is there and Rome is there, Richard and Raymond and Godfrey, the Knights of Arthur's Table, and the great Gaels of Ire­land—^"the men that God made mad. For all their wars were merry. And all their songs were sad'—^while high and clear above that fabled and his­toric host rings the tocsin of federated fighting men everywhere — "All for one, one for all." Into that company these lads of today enter by aspira­tion if not in fact, giving all they have of loyalty and devotion to their school to leave a record time may read only through its tears. I know 
how sentimental and sophomoric this will sound to the men that issue the bulletins. But these realities are, though they cannot be assayed in laboratories or catalogued in libraries, and I wonder if when the schoolmen's prophecies shall be made void, and tongues shall cease, and knowledge shall be destroyed, I wonder if there shall not stand out as among the supreme possessions of life this little brother of the charity St. Paul de­scribes—the love in the heart of a boy for his school and his school's love for him. 
Let me conclude by relating a story which will serve to sum up and ren­der concrete what we have just been dwelling upon. George Gipp came here from nowhere, a total stranger to Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. Within a year, he was the idol of the campus. Physically perfect, he had a splendid mind, and he had, "like young Shakespearean kings," those qualities of leadership which could not fail to win a follo\ving. A typical anecdote, possessing that touch of irony we like so well in our campus wit, is that which represents a friend of his boasting that if the fellow on Gipp's left got 40 and the fellow on Gipp's right got 60 in an examination, Gipp was such a genius he could get 90 off the two papers. 
I saw Gipp play his last great game against the Army in 1920, and was on the bench when in the last quarter he was relieved from the play, limp­ing off the field exhausted and de­pleted of every ounce of strength, all of which he had given for that'im­possible dream of love and loyalty which makes up a college man's devo­tion to his school and his fellows, which I have already tried to describe —actually dying, though we knew it not, for already in his system was working that insidious poison which less than a month later was to bring' him to the grave. He had done everything that any football player' had ever done upon a field and done 
it better than most. Darkness was coming on in the bitter winds that swept across the plains at West Point as he sat there in his blanket, relaxed, pale, silent, crying a little, I think. Then suddenly he was on his feet; he leaped np onto the bench, the blanket fallen off his shoulders. Chet Wynne, our fullback, had made one of those sudden amazing cuts through the line, good for some fifteen or twenty yards. In a voice that could be heard, it seemed to me, above all the roar of the crowd, Gipp shouted: "Yea, Chet," as he stood there, self entirely for­gotten, quivering from head to foot with joy and loyal pride in the achievement of his teammate. That, gentlemen, is my fond memory of Gipp, and to me it is a symbol not only of what we call the Notre Dame spirit, but of those intangible realities, those imponderable values, those somehow holy treasures that are gar­nered not by way of books but by way of life- itself by true men in college— a preciousness that adds to the sum of life itself and makes us more humbly grateful to the great Giver of Life. 
1929 BANQUET AT WHICH THIS ADDRESS WAS DELIVERED 
(Left to right) Jimmy Phelan, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Gov. Harry Leslie, Paul Castner, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, Edw. Kelly, Capt. "Biff" Jones, U. S. A., Byron V. Kanaley, Harvey Woodruff, Miles O'Brien, William Ingram. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
Th< 
m,

Five Miller m Brothers 
By John J. Raleish 
If you were to stop a man upon the street who was not familiar with the American sport page for the last t\venty years and say to him, "The five Miller brothers," he would prob­ably debate the advisability of grab­bing you and shouting for help or trying to placate you by talking soothingly. Even if he did not doubt your sanity he would think you were some new type of publicity man for a trapeze act at the local vaudeville house, billed as the Five Man'elous Millers. 
But if your man is an average American citizen and reads the sport page, the comics, the front page and Beatrice Fairfax in that order, you will have started a flow of language you will find it difficult to stop. His conversation is likely to be along this vein: 
"The Miller brothers? Sure I re­member them. They played football at Notre Dame. Let me see — what were their names—don't tell me now —there was Red and Ray and Wally and Gerry and Don." 
Of course your newly made ac­quaintance would be right. Their names were Red, Ray, Wally, Gerry and Don, and they did play quite a bit of football for Notre Dame. There have been numerous brother combina­tions at Notre Dame, the Carmodys, the Collins boys, the McManmons, the Crowes and the Newbolds being just a few of them, but none have been the equal of the Millers from the point of view of number or accomplishments. 
The first of the Millers at Notre Dame was Martin Harold or "Red" as he was more commonly known. "Red" was a member of the football team for four years, distinguishing himself as one of the fastest and hardest-hitting halfbacks in the his­tory of the school. In his Junior year he was chosen captain of the 1908 team and was also a member of the famous 1909 team which under the leadership of Howard "Cap" Ed­wards swept all opposition before it to an undisputed Western Champion­ship and to a claim on the National Championship. Miller was chosen on a number of the AU-American teams for that year and was placed on the third team in Walter Camp's -All-American selection, the second Notre Dame man to receive this coveted honor up to that time, Lou Salmon being the other selection in 1904. 
"Red" received a Ph.B. in 1910 and in a brief summing up of his athletic performances at Notre Dame the Dome for that year said, "Miller gained with or without interference; he opened holes that left in their wake sprawling opposition." 
Following graduation "Red" was athletic director and football coach at Creighton University for five years, studying law there in his spare time and taking a law degree in 1913. 
Ray was the next Miller at Notre Dame. He was a member of the^ Class of '14 and a reserve on the team that gave the football world such illustrious names as Rockne and Dorais and did more than any other one organization to popularize the forward pass. But football was only of second importance to Ray, his first love being the law. The editor of the 1914 Dome put it very aptly when he said, "Ray has dabbled a little in ath­letics, but his intense devotion to Blackstone prevented him from at­taining the heights achieved by his brother "Red." 
In the fall of 1914 the third Miller matriculated at Notre Dame. This was Walter Reilly Miller and after showing great promise in his Fresh­man year he proceeded to live up to the Miller reputation established by his brothers, becoming an invaluable member of the varsity football and track teams in his Sophomore year. Wally had the reputation of being the 

«?i ^ ^ ^ 

lightest fullback in collegiate football and was likewise famous for being one of the most dangerous punters in the country. It was averred that he could punt out of bounds on the two yard line with monotonous regularity from well past mid-field. 
Upon the entrance of the United States into that now historic Euro­pean unpleasantness, Wally left Notre Dame and joined the Navy remaining in the sen-ice through 1917 and 181S. At the culmination of the war he re­turned to school and took up both studies and his football where he had left off. 
In his Senior year the team was composed of such men as the immor­tal Gipp, Ivirk and Anderson. They played a nine game schedule ivithout defeat or a tie. The opposition was composed of such teams as Army, Nebraska, Indiana and Michigan State, and Miller's defensive work in backing up the line and his punting were the features of every game. 
In addition to being a scintillating football star Wally was also what is known in the present day campus ver­nacular as an "activities" man, hold­ing numerous offices in campus organ­izations. To name a few of them, he was deputy grand knight of the Ivnights of Columbus, President of the Ohio Club and Guard of Notre Dame's Friends of Irish Freedom. Walter followed Ray's example and took a law degree at the University in 1920. 
The Millers now advanced on Notre Dame in pairs. In the fall of the fol­lowing year after Wally's graduation, Don and Gerry entered the University and immediately made their presence known by distinguishing themselves as members of the Freshman football team. 
Don was perhaps the most famous of all the Miller brothers by virtue of being a member of that famous quartet, the Four Horsemen. He was 
October, 19S0 THE NOTRE DAIIE ALUMNUS 
a halfback on the team of 1924 that 
caught the public's fancy as no foot­
ball team had ever done before or has 
ever done since. He was a triple 
threat man in every sense of the 
word, as was every man in that in­
vincible backfield, and was picked for 
the halfback berth on a number of 
the AU-American elevens. 

Gerry Miller was a football player far above the ordinary, and the bril­liance of his brother, coupled with his own lack of weight shrouded his ac­complishments to some extent. How­ever he was a member of that unsung and unhonored company of heroes, the reser\'es, and performed capably with the shock troops for three years. 
All the attention of these last two Millers was not given entirely to foot­ball, both of them being occupied in a variety of campus activities. Don was President of the Senior Class, Vice-President of the Monogram Club and a member of the S. A. C, while Gerry was Treasurer of the Ohio Club, a member of the Blue Circle and chairman of the Cotillion recep­tion committee. 
Today the Millers ai-e in spite of the college athletics jingoists exam­ples of the successful American busi­ness man. "Red" is General Counsel for the Grasselli Chemical Company of Cleveland. Ray practiced law for a while upon graduation until 1916 when he went to the Mexican border with Pershing. Upon demobilization he went prospecting for gold in the mountains of Mexico. When war was declared with Germany, Ray entered the army as a First Lieutenant. He saw active service in France in the same regiment for which Father Walsh of Notre Dame was Chaplain. 
When the war closed Ray was mus­tered out with the commission of Cap­tain, returning to Cleveland and prac­ticing law until he became Assistant Law Director from 1922 until 1923. Following this he again practiced law for himself until I92S when he was elected Prosecuting Attorney for Cuyahoga County, Ohio. 
Following his graduation Walter Miller traveled extensivelj' in South America, worked for the East Ohio Gas Company of Cleveland and was engaged in the oil business in Louisi­ana for himself. Several years ago, however, he entered the employ of the Otis Company, a national financing house, ^vith whom he is still affiliated. 
Gerry Miller has been practicing law in Cleveland since his gradu­ation, but Don still had football fever in his blood and accepted a position as backfield coach at Georgia Tech. In a year or two he became the toast of the South for Tech plodding along in mediocrity for a number of years suddenly came to life and in 1928 had easily the best football team in the country. When Don Miller left there at the close of the '28 season to act as backfield coach at Ohio State, it is reported that the Mayor of Atlanta ordered the flags to be flown at half mast. 
Walter and Don Miller are as yet unmarried while Gerry was married last year at Notre Dame. "Red" has been married for a number of years and has four children, two embryonic football players and two fair rooters. Kay, too is married and has three children, one of whom according to their Uncle "Red" is bound for Notre Dame while the other two are bound for St. Mary's. 


NATIONALLY KNOWN MEN IN­VITED TO ATTEND DEDICATION. 
Among the thousands to throng the Notre Dame campus on October 11 to witness Navy and Notre Dame battle on the gi-idiron will be an imposing number of our most famous and prominent citizens, representing many and varied lines of endeavor, par­ticipating in the dedication of the spacious Notre Dame stadium, if many of the invitations sent out by the University are accepted. 
Heading the list of those invited are several men who have been in­timately associated with national aifairs during the past years. Charles 
F. Adams, present secretary of the navy; Patrick J. Hurley, secretaiy of war, both members of President Hoover's cabinet; Senator James E. Watson and Representative A. J. Hickey of Indiana; Alfred E. Smith, Democratic choice for president dux-­ing the last national election; John-
J. Raskob, chairman of the Demo­cratic national committee; Governor Harry G. Leslie of Indiana, and Governor Louis L. Emmerson of Illi­nois, make up this illustrious group. 
In continuing the list of prospec­tive visitors, the names of Patrick Crowley, president of the New York Central lines, and James Gorman, president of the Bock Island railroad, are found, as are those of William Wrigley, Paul McNutt, former na­tional commander of the American Legion, Samuel InsuU, Julius Rosen­wald. Col. R. R. McCormick, and Walter Strong, Chicago newspaper publishers, and Rufus Dawes. 
The list of those who are connected chiefly with sports include John L. Griffith, director of Western confer­ence athletics; Jess Harper, former coach at Notre Dame before the ad­vent of Knute Rockne; Harry Hene­age, chairman of the athletic com­mittee at Dartmouth, and Sydney Hutchinson, athletic committee chair­man at the University of Penn­sylvania. 
Among the leaders in business and almost every other profession are found: 
Warren A. Cartier. Luclinfrton, Mich.: C. C. Mitchell. Chicago; Byron V. Kanaley. ChicaKO; Daniel P. Murphy. Eocliaway. N. J.; A. R. Erskinc, South Bend; £. N. Hurley, Chicago; 
J. F. Reitz. Evansvillc. Ind.: Fred J. Fisher. Detroit, Mich.; James J. Phelan, Boston, Mass. 
E. J. Kelly, chairman South Park board of Chicago: M.^yor W. R. Hinklc. South Bend: Vincent Bendix, South Bend: Frank Darlintr, Rye, N. Y.: E. L. Doheny, New York City; Anarus R. McDonald, New Y'ork City: M. J. Connell, Los Angeles, Calif.: B. H. Kroger, Cincinnati. Ohto: W. E. Donahue, Chicago: Ernest R. Graham, Chicago: Col. W, J. Riley, E.ist Chicago, Ind.: A. F. Jlechan, Chatta­nooga, Tenn.: Matthew J. Carney. New York City. 
Thomas J. McKeon. Los Angeles: Daniel Murphy. Los .Angeles: Frank J. Nelson. Chi­cago : T. R. Ansberry, Washington: James T. Callery, Pittsburgh: Richard T. Ford. Roches­ter, N. Y.: Martin J. Gillcn, New York City: 
W. F. Kenney, New York City: Conrad H, Mann, Kansas City, Mo.: C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.: Alex A. McDonnell, St. Paul, Minn.: Robert Stranahan, Toledo. Ohio. 
Stuy^'esant Peabody, Chicaso; officers of the Army and Navy club, Chicago: Raymond E. Jones, New York City: Charles W. Niezer. Fort Wayne. Ind.: Senator D. I. Walsh. Washington: Col. William Donovan, New York City: A. D. Laskcr, Chicago: E. S. Beck, Chicago: S. E. Thomason. Chicago: Sheldon Clark, Chicago: Harry Wheeler, Chicago: Homer Guck. Chicago: Fred Cordley, Chi­cago; Gen. Wood, Chicago. 
Leon Mandel, George Lytton. Maurice Roths­child. John M. Smj-th, Elmer Stevens, Melvin Traylor, Carrol Schaeffer. J. F., Cashing, all of ChicasTo: Frederick Rouson and Grattan Stanford, of New Y'ork City. 
JOHN A. STAUNTON JOINS ENGLISH STAFF 
John A. Staunton arrived here on September 30 to assume his duties as a member of the Notre Dame English Department. Mr. Staunton has recently resigned from his post as rector of St. Michael's Episcopal Mission in Seattle, ending a career which covered a period of twenty-one years of missionary work in the Phil­ippines. Mr. Staunton has always been held in high regard by his reli­gious associates and his presence here should make him many new friends. A present member of the English department, Mr. Henry C. Staunton, is a brother of the new teacher. 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
s 



EDITORIAL^ 

THE STADIUM 
B
EICK and mortar! Architects and engineers with these materials have 
raised on Notre Dame's campus another structure, 
well worthy of its xjrominent place in the progress of the 
Greater Notre Dame. The public will see that. 
Notre Dame men will see more. And it is the confident prediction of the ALUJINUS that the public which this new structure will draw to Notre Dame year after year will, in the course of events, be so imbued wth the environment of the new Stadium that they too will see what Notre Dame men see. It is this, more than any other single factor, that puts warmth into our sincere congratulations. 
1842! A valiant priest and six Brothers on the icy shores of a little lake. Three hundred dollars in assets. Terms from the Bishop of Fort Wayne that, though they strained the generosity of that venei-able prelate, were harsh. A college to be builded and functioning within two years. 
Fire! Twice, during those first thirty years of hard­ship and privation, the meager achievements that the little college could boast were wiped out by fires that would have shriveled the ambitions of men with less vision and less faith. 
1879! Brick and mortar then, too. With the pa­triarchal Father Sorin taking apron and trowel to speed an heroic building. 
1887! Eleven boys in hit-and-miss uniforms inviting the able University of Michigan football team to come to Notre Dame and teach them the new college sport. Years of development, playing against almost any opponent that chance offered. No funds for travel or equipment, except as appreciation of physical development, an earnest desire to have Notre Dame boys enjoy what other college boys enjoyed, or a persuasive manager, talked out of the meager treasury the few dollars needed for a trip to Chicago or eleven new suits. 
1909! When Pete Vaughan smashed the Jlichigan goal, posts for a touchdown that defeated the team that taught Notre Dame the rudiments of football. The Western championship. Wider recognition. Better schedules. 
1917! Captain Jimmy Phelan leaving after three games for a sterner battle. Big Mclnerny gone before the season started, never to come back. 
1920! George Gipp, the embodiment of Notre Dame football, playing in spite of injury because a crowd called him, and because Notre Dame could use him, playing against Rockne's wishes,' weakening himself, for Notre Dame, so that an infection found him all too susceptible a victim,—entering, on his death bed, the immortal service of Our Lady. 
1924! The Four Horsemen—^the most colorful, able and heralded backfield in the history of the game. The Seven Mules, no less able, whose stubborn defense and aggressive offense paved the way for the Horsemen and threw to the winds the theories of weight as applied to football lines. 
1929! Another undisputed national championship— generaled by Carideo, unanimous AU-American selection for quarterback on the mythical elevens of the post-mor­tem era,—urged oh by Jack Cannon, AU-American guard, who, contrary to all the laws of publicity, produced more color at an allegedly humble berth, and occupied more column inches than most of the season's backs. 
1905-1928! Twenty-three years during which a Notre Dame team never met defeat on its home field. A field of victory on which had played the nation's football heroes of three decades—the late John I. Mullen, three times captain of the team; Louis "Red" Salmon; Harry "Red" Miller; Charley Crowley; Charles "Gus" Dorais; Knute Eockne; Ray Eichenlaub; the Bergmans; the younger Millers; Maurice "Clipper" Smith the First; Heartly "Hunk" Anderson; the famous ends, Kiley and Anderson; Johnny Mohardt; Lawrence "Buck" Shaw; Paul Castner, and the hundreds of team-mates of these men who are on the tongue's tip. 
On the very sod, transplanted to the Stadium from the old Cartier Field, these feet trod. Traditions grow in the very grass and echo in the new stands as though the voices of those about whom they grew are speaking. 
Were there no other structure than the Stadium, it would be far more to Notre Dame men than the beautiful realization of the vision of its designers. 
But there is so much more! 
The towering spire of the Church, above the new wall, high as it is, carries with the cross at its top the higher purpose of Notre Dame to the surrounding campus. The golden Dome, surmounted by the figure of Our Lady, loses nothing through the great new stmcture, but rather seems to include it in the embracing gesture of the holy hands. 
The new Law Building, matching in architectural excellence and sparkling newness the new Stadium, brings to the very gates of the Stadium the corresponding academic march of the University. 
In the center of the campus, central still with all the changes, the old Quadrangle! Here are Colonel Hoynes and Father Cavanaugh! Here Brownson and Carroll! Here Prof. Maurus and Prof. Ackerman! Here the Main Building with its classrooms, its dormitories, its "Siberia," its endless stairs and forbidden corridors! 
Back of the Quadrangle, the Lakes—St. Mai-y's and St, Joseph.'s, where men have enjoyed the cool privacy of their summer waters and the invigorating skating of the winter; where men have grown older in their philoso­phies while walking with each other on the shores. 
Badin! Shades, odorous shades, of the old cafeteria. Walsh, e.K-Gold Coast. Sorin, dignified and tradition-filled as he for whom it was named. Corby, where various mild villainies thrived in the very shadow of the Church. 
Washington Hall! Symphony orchestras, opera stars, Lee Sims, Charlie Butterworth, Walter O'Keefe, mono­gram shows, Dick Lightfoot, the Classics, the Ghost,— now sound pictures! 
The procession of associations for Notre Dame men is endless. No one can come to the new Stadium with­out absorbing some of this other, this deeper, Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is bigger than brick and far more than mortar. 
KXUTE K. EOCKNE 
Director of Athletics 
October, 1930

THE NOTRE DAME A L U M N U S 
Football Poetry of Notre Dame eehan 
«« By John H. Sh 
^^ ^F ^^T ^F ^F ^^T ^C 

M
OST beautiful and most neai-ly perfect of the poems to- come from Notre Dame's football is the following, which appeared in the Notre Dame Scliolastic following the death of George Gipp, Notre Dame's immortal. The title is "For George Gipp (Bap­tized on His Deathbed)" and the poem is unsigned. 
Stars in their cotirses and twelve stars whose rays But drato their beauty from Her circled brow Fought in great peace to bring you, through what ways. Where you are noiv. 
There is a company abotit Her throne Where all her knights are met in Heaven's joys. And you, the youngest, are not there alone Among Her boys. 
They have laid by the mail of many a field. Out of a tlwusand climes, a thousand years. To you, neivcomer, ivelcome j)lace they yield Among your peers. 
You wore Her armor, battling in Her name. What tliough you scarcely kneiv its august power— She knew Her knight and, fame beyond all fame. Prepared this hour, 
When ivith a Inndness fitting such a Queen She led you off, your tourney but begun. With scutcheon bright and wreath of laurel green, Your sptirs quick-won. 
For greaves may rust, and fame is but a breath Tliat blows or hot or cold beyond deserving. But Honor lives immortal in this deaVi, Your name preserving. 
Out of wliat far ways of the boundless skies Fluttered-the call tluit turned your footsteps here. Where over all our purpose shine Her eyes, Her spirit near. 
0 Lady, you have taken of our best To malte a playmate for the Seraphim; There on the wide siveet camjnis of the blest. Be good to hiin. 
Another particularly lovely poem in connection with football at Notre Dame is one that appeared in the 1925 Dome, written by Prof. Charles Phillips. It is entitled "A Morning Hymn for Champions." 
Queen of the tourney and the test. Thou gracious arbitress of years. The ending of our vigil nears. The watchful night is o'er and done. 
We rise, we ride, at thy behest. We lift our lances from their rest. Our sivords salute thee in the sun. Queen of the tourney and the gtiest. Lady of Paradise! 
Queen of the hearts courageous, far Thy iummoning commands our vows. Thy morning light upon our brows. Thy heavenly strength in every heart. 
We rise, we ride, nor jvound 7ior scar Can ever the fair signet mar That thou hast sealed tts ivith apart. Thy honor on us like a star Lady of Paradise. 
Where bright pavilions of the day Invite, or nights in darlcness bend, . Be thou our guide, be thou our friend. 
Be thou our constant oriflamme. We rise, we ride, or joust or fray Thy love, thy smile, oiir arms shall sioay. 
For Notre Dame, for Notre Dame, Up and away, our pledge for aye, "Lady of Paradise." 
Feg Murray, writing for the Cleveland Times back in 1924, said, "The Notre Dame cathedral and the Notre Dame football team are both noted for their rugged strength and delicate finish. The cathedral has wonderful lines—the football team a wonderful line and a wonderful backfield . . . ." 
Too, "The Irish" have inspired many a poet to write living lines; some glorious, others humorous; some care­free, others sad. Peelings akin to those suppressed yearn­ings for mother's cookie jar are expressed in the following stanzas printed originally in the Scholastic of '24. 
HOMECOMING We have seen enough of motmtains; We have been too near the sky. Note the fields call and the plains call. And the lotoering dust sweeps by. As we would ivalk the long path And rest where the sJiadows fall. Where the sky bends aiid the trail eiids At the old St. Mary's icall. 
A vagrant breeze has told us. That whispered dotvn ivalks of old. Of a sun that smiles on those mellowed aisles And a far, high dome of gold. Though hills close in on our bodies Our spirit is off to the game. Through the high road to the by road That leads to Notre Dame. 
—J. RAYMOND HUNT. 

The causes and effects of the 1924 National Champion­ship on student enthusiasm are ably evidenced by the fol­lowing verse from the versatile pen of Harry McGuire, '25, in the famous Dome of 1924: 
Out of the West 
Came Rock and his men; Lightning on lightning flashed. Thunder on mountains crashed, Into the East they snicshcd— 
Rock and his jiicn. 
October, 1930 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
On to the field 
Come Rock and his men; Fighting a foreign foe, Hitting them high and low, Down to the goal they go— 
Rockne's men. 
There on the field 
Stand Rock and his men; Sound of the whistle dies. Up to the farthest skies Boom now the frenzied cries, 
"Rock and your men!" 
Back to the West 

Come Rock and his men; Back to their comrades true, Under the Gold and Blue— Fighting men turned from war. Hear they the awful roar Smiting the heavens for 
Rock and his men. 

Notre Dame's "Four Horsemen" of 1925, and their team-mates, caused many a poet to wear down his pen. Grantland Rice so regretted the passing of that glorious quartet that he wrote a homely and sympathetically simple poem, on the occasion of their last game. The "Horse­men" rode out in triumph. Northwestern was dis­mounted, 13 to G. 
THE PASSING SHOW There will be stars who are still paradin' Out in front toith the flare of fame. But Stuhldrdeher, Miller, Crowley and Layden Are playing their final game. 
Soon they rise and as soon are fadin'. Others will come from the laurel glen; But I want to see Miller and Crotvley and Layden Taking that ball again. 
—GRANTLAND EICE. 
The 1929 Champions were accredited with a new set of "Horsemen." On the eve of the Notre Dame-Carnegie Tech game, October 25, 1929, another newspaper man, Paul G. Sullivan of the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegram, broke into verse. The first two verses are reprinted as they appeared in the Sun-Telegram of that date. 
THE NEW FOUR HORSEMEN OF NOTRE DAME The Celts of South Bend Iiave blared out of the West, 'Mid the din of the croicd and the clamorous rattle Of conflict that roars through their nation-wide quest Of the crotvn to be gained in victorious battle . . . And, by leading by right of speed, potver, and skill. Streak Elder, Carideo, Mullins, and Brill. 
Grim on the sideline with all-seeing eye Sits the genius directing the fray his team wages— The spirit incarnate of never-say-die, Notre Dame's own unparalleled "Rock" of the Ages— Secure in the faith that his way and his will Ride with Elder, Carideo, Mullins, and BrilL 
—PAUL G. SULLIVAN. 
George. Gipp, whose name is a talisman to the follow­ei-s of N. D. gridsters, passed away at the height of his fame, in 1921. His team-mate of that famous "Gipp to Kirk" fonvard pass combination, Bemie Kirk, moved to the University of Michigan following Gipp's death. By a strange quirk of fate, Bemie died, as did Gipp, just after his selection for the ail-American honor roll. The following poem is from the Dome of '24, the author not named. 
Four years ago the oval sped From Iiand to hand that loved the ivork. And weekly tales of triumplis read The omnipresent "Gipp to Kirk." 
But Gipp %vas taken out—And then. The fonoard pass was not the same; And Bemie moved to Michigan . And further tablets kneiv his name. 
And when /le'd run his college span. At Christmas time the fickle fates Called time—and He, the only coach tvlio can. Had joined again the famous mates. 
Despite the sadness and dismay, The sudden truth, where sorroivs lurk. It's good to feel iliat Gipp today. Is there to welcome Bemie Kirk. 
Defeat did not smother the spirits of the campus poets. Nor was the part played by the beloved "Rock" neglected. Below is an excellent example of victory in defeat, \vritten after the Army game of 1925: Army 27, N. D. 0. 
CONSOLATION Don't worry Knute, your team fought well; They fought for you and Notre Dame— They ahoays fight and oft excel. The winning does not make the game. Nor does the score, tlie story tell; To lose means not disgrace or shame. The nightingale may miss one note And still may claim the stoeetest throat. 
—^RAYJIOND G. KEISER, '27 in the Sclwlastic of '25. 
That Notre Dame men never forget the Gold and Blue is finely expressed in the following lines: 
THE LAST HOMECOMING Wliat's the date, Mary, the First? Does the doctor say I may go? Oh!—Why there are some of the boys note! There's Ed, and Cliarley, and Joe— 
Look, Mary, the team's coming out on the field— They're lighter Utan our teams were. It's too bad the day's so foggy, Mary— Everything seems in a blur— 
Who's that running around left end, Mary? It's Joe's son. Bob, on my soul! And look at the youngster travel, Mary— By George, he's O'ossed the goal! 
The game must be over, Mary— Tlie crowds—seem fading—away— Well, glad you could go—loitli me—Mary— /—tvanted—to see them—play. —^ANON. Scholastic, '24. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
BELIEVE IT OR NOT Some Statistics on the New Stadium 
•T might be interesting to delve 1 into the commonplace, everyday ac­tions that underlie the building of anything as massive and complicated as the Notre Dame Stadium. The finished structure can be appreciated and admired, and conjectures made as to the enormity of the task that confronted the engineers and archi­tects and the contractors; but a sur­vey of some of the many details ac­tually reveals that the materials which were poured and hammered and mortared into the stadium exceed in quantity even the most exaggerated guess. 
Completed in Four Montlis 
By far the most surprising feat is the rapid completion of the stadium. Although work was begun Sept. 20, 1929, labor on the foundations did not start until April, 1930. For some three weeks forms were laid to hold the concrete, and on April 19, a bat­tery of mixers and pourers began to lay the actual foundations. By Sep­tember of 1930, a little more than four months later, the brick-work had been completed, seats had been erected, and the stadium was ready for the thousands of spectators. 
Seats, Steel Work, and Brick 
The seats in the stadium are made of genuine California redwood, which is practically indestructible, and not affected by any kind of weather. 100,000 feet of it were used. If a table were to be made of all this wood, say a table 4 feet wide, it would stretch into the distance for 25,000 feet. At it could be accom­modated for meals 20,000 people, ap­proximately one third the attendance at the Navy game. Let us take the steel that makes up the framework of the stadium. 400 tons of it, 20 car­loads, were used. Suppose we were to make bullets of it, using two ounces for every bullet. We should finally have 6,400,000 bullets. Then, if we feed them steadily into a ma­chine gun which shoots 100 of them 
By James Carmody 
^p ^T ^r 
(In the Scholastic) 
a minute, we should be pressing the trigger for 44 days and ten hours be­fore exhausting the supply. In the same manner we can turn the brick that was used to still another use, much more practical. The 2,000,000 bricks could be laid end to end, as is usual, to reach from the Administra­tion building to the waterfront at Cleveland, a matter of some 300 miles. 
Cemenit, Timber, and Stone Work 

Looking at the construction from the point of view of the contractors, which means reckoning the finished product as tons of this and feet of that, involves a perusal of statements as to what actually went into the building. 45,000 feet of earth were moved in the grading and in the mak­ing of the foundations, and 75 car­loads of cement went into the mixers. The erection of the forms for the mixed concrete necessitated the use of 500,000 feet of rough lumber and planking. From the quarries came 29 carloads of Indiana limestone to be used in the exterior finishing and the ornamental stone work. The nec­essary sand and gravel filled 500 cars, and even the iron brackets which hold the seats in place came in carload lots. 
The Press Box 

Especially notable is the press box. It provides what are said to be the finest accommodations for broadcast­ing and reporting games of any sta­dium in the country. There is room for 250 persons, as well as necessary radio equipment. The front of the box is entirely glass-enclosed, and the section reser\'ed for broadcasting is absolutely soundproof. 
Some More Statistics 

The men, 500 of them, who actually built the structure, required a ton of food each day to furnish energy for their labors. They drank 500 gallons of water each day as well. The 15, 000 cubic yards of concrete, if made into a tower of ten feet square would reach a height of five and one-half times that of the Woolworth building, usual basi^ of comparison. All these statistics serve to show concretely the huge amounts of material and the correspondingly great amount of labor that went into the erection of one of the finest stadia in America. 
Sod From Old Field in New Stadi^im 
The method used to transfer in­tact the sod of the old field to the new stadium is unusually interesting. The turf itself is some thirty-five years old and is quite famous for its firmness and texture. It was first cut into ribbons, then rolled up like a carpet is rolled, and finally trans­ported to its new location. At the new stadium it was unrolled and tamped into place to form a perfect gridiron. 
Engineers and General Contractors 

The Osbom Engineering Company, general architects for the project, have designed some 50 stadia in all parts of the country. Among their largest are Comiskey park in Chicago, the Yankee stadium and the Polo Grounds in New York, and the sta­dia at the Universities of Michigan, Indiana, Purdue, and Minnesota. The general contractors were Ralph Sol­litt and Sons of South Bend, who di­rected the actual building of the structure. 
Minor Contractors 

The other companies that partici­pated in the construction were: 
GeorKe Hoffman & CD sand and sravel Marquette Portland Cement Co cement OIney J. Dean Co.. Chicago, .reinforcinjr steel Edwards Iron Works 
structural steel and miscellaneous iron Goorffe Beyers roofinc South Bend Glass W^orks Rlazinff Joe Wolf & Son paintins Indiana Lumber Co millwork 
U. S. Lumber and Supply Co 
...lumber and mason supplies Alexander J. Kin(r Stone Co cut stone Georffc Meyer & Son hardware 
October, 19-jO THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
 By HARRY SYLVESTER Jr. 
the field to one touchdown only to see it slither from their grasp; how they came from behind to tie Army as the fiery Chevigny fell across the goal-line crying: "Here's • one of them, Gipper." How Chevigny was carried off the field exhausted, absolutely played out, and how, on the next play, as the shadows lengthened and then touched the infield, Johnny O'Brien plucked victory from the air in the form of Niemic's pass, and fell across the goal-line. 
George Gipp was there that dun November day. George Gipp helped to win that game just as much as did any man who played. And he was at the other games. No one may have spoken of him, or used his name to inspire a team on to \ictory, but it is safe to say that someone always thinks of him whenever Notre Dame goes to battle. It is not hard to con­ceive of the shade of this lean, mu3­cular figure kneeling on one knee on the sidelines, watching the progress of a game, exclaiming in disappoint­ment, or shouting in joy. 
The name of Notre Dame has at­tracted many youths to her portals. The name of Rockne has attracted many. And the name of Gipp has at­tracted its share—^has attracted those who dwell somewhat in the past as well as in the present and future. There will never be another Gipp, and these dreamers who would be great athletes, know it, but they would, nevertheless, follow in his footsteps, tread the same sod he trod, wear the same dark blue, become part of the same tradition. Always will there be some few who yearly come to Notre Dame because it was there that George Gipp achieved immortality. 
George Gipp didn't die. His body lies in a little graveyard on the out­skirts of the mining town of Laurium, in the land immortalized by Long­fellow in his poem, "Hiawatha." But his spirit lives, and will live forever in the heart of Notre Dame. In death as in life he still serves Notre Dame, not always obviously and heroically, but, nevertheless, well. And he will always be there where Notre Dame needs him most—usually in the back­ground, half-realized by those whom he inspires without them always knowing it. Sometimes flaming in the front, apparent, almost visible, as he was that day in the Yankee Stadium. But realized or unrealized, he will al­ways be there — Notre Dame's great­est physical tradition. 
No, George Gipp did not die. 
Q^QI^Q^ GIPP^^^^^^ ^^ 
Much has been written about Notre Dame's greatest of the great — the big, silent youth who came unheralded from the North, and who returned to the North still silent—forever. Much has been written of this man, who was, in his iield, a genius every bit as much as were Mozart and Michael­angelo in theirs. Some might ques­tion the use of that much over-used term, genius, in its application to an athlete, but the application will bear analysis. There may be physical geniuses as well as mental geniuses, and there may be men whose co­ordination of the mental and the physical make them also geniuses. Such a man was George Gipp. But we do not propose to deal with his achievements or what made him great. Other and more worthy pens have written indelibly and truthfully of the former, and other minds have speculated as to the latter. Rather we would like to tell you of a belief we have; a rather childish belief, perhaps, but one which we will always hold to. 
There are those who say that George Gipp is dead. They will tell you the story of the last game he played in, against Northwestern. They will tell you how he arose from a sick bed to make the trip to Evan­ston, and how "Rock" kept him on the bench until there would be need for him. But there was no need for him that bitter November day; that team was one of Notre Dame's greatest and going into the last quarter, it led by a decisive margin. But, the story goes, all afternoon the stands called for Gipp — the great Gipp! They chanted his name; one would have thought they had little or no interest in the game. And finally, during the last quarter, with, the wind sweeping across that ice-covered field, George Gipp, great showman, too, arose from the bench and trotted upon the field. He played part of that last quarter, and returned to school, sick. He was put to bed and never arose again. Two weeks later he died shortly after Father Pat Haggerty baptized him. They •ivill tell you that George Gipp died that cold December day, when the chapels always had someone in them, and the student body knelt in the snow to pray. But I think that George Gipp lives. 
 believe that he lives today just as truly as he did that day he trotted on the field at Evanston, just as truly as the day he carried six tacklers across the goal-line to beat Indiana; just as truly as when he would drift 
GEORGE GIPP 
In the Van of the Immortals 

through a broken field telling his interference who to take out and who to leave alone. And I will tell you why I hold to this belief. 
The Notre Dame team of 1928 was, so far as games won and lost go, about the least fortunate one that ever represented Our Lady's School. Some few, however, know its true worth; know of the handicaps it labored under, which the outside world probably never will know of. But be these things as they may, Notre Dame treked East one day in late November to do battle ^vith one of the greatest teams Army ever pro­duced. Notre Dame went East, and underdog, twice defeated. 
In a grey dressing-room, deep in the bowels of the huge grey stadium, a little group of athletes sat, and waited, and listened to the Old Man speak. And he told them the stoi-y of Gipp — the story that will never gi-ow old. And he told them that as the great Gipp lay dying he called "Rock" over to him and told him that he knew he was going, and that he wanted .to make one last request "Some day, 'Rock,' some time—^when the going isn't so easy, when the odds are against us, ask a Notre Dame team to win a game for me—for the Gipper." 
"Rock" paused and then concluded: "Men," he said, "this is that game." 
The rest is history. You know what happened — how a sobbing, fighting, crying group of youths marched down 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 19S0 
CARTER FIELD 
# 
In the halcyon days of 1886 the playing area for Notre Dame football teams was unlimited, the seating capacity so vast record breaking crowds of today would scarcely fill one section. Late in 1929, mora than tivo score years later, ground was broken and plans drawn for a space 50 X 100 yards, with a limited seating capacity of 55,000. A paradox? Re­trogressive? Seemingly. But in 1886 the flat Indiana table-land from the residential section of South Bend to the campus, afforded both unlimited playipg space and an abundance of room for spectators. There were no admission barriers, no mounting stands, no appalling gate receipts. This last, uith the growing popularity of sports, brought the authorities to a realization of the immediate necessity for some means of financial return, if the various activities were to be con­tinued. 
The burden of this financial aid 
rested chiefly on the student body. 
How paltry was this return may be 
determined when it is learned that 
"the student body" was comfortably 
housed in Sorin and Brownson halls. 
Generous Alumni members, however, 
contributed towards this fund and 
provided the means of salvation for 
the Athletic Union. 
Various university representatives met in 1899 to discuss the growing need for a more suitable gridiron. During this council, an enclosed field was proposed which would necessitate paid admissions. One of the many from whom aid was solicited was Warren A. Cartier, C.E., 1887, a res­ident of Ludington, Michigan. His liberal and encouraging response over­whelmed university officials. Mr Car­tier agreed to buy the necessary lumber for the project, build the fence and fiiiest of all, to construct the 
FIELD WELL PROTECTED BY SPECIAL COVERING The playing field in the new Sta­dium will be well protected from all kinds of inclement weather in the future. A special covering of rub­berized silk has been obtained, and will be left on the field until several hours of the game tomorrow. 
WARREN A . CARTIER 
Alumnus-Lay Trustee 
grandstand on the ten acre plot which was purchased east of Brownson cam­pus. (This was situated differently from now). 
The athletic department, after due consideration, decided to use a kite shaped track in laying out the new field. They planned a bicycle track, a popular sport of that time, a foot track to circle the gridiron, and a baseball diamond. The southwest side of the field was to be tenanted by a grandstand and clubhouse. Shortly after, however, it was realized that such plans would in time prove in­adequate to the demands of the ath­letic groups. This necessitated a change in the original intention and produced the following: 

An enclosed field with entrances located at the north and south sides, and two entrances on the west side of the field. Further specifiications called for a 220 yard straightaway track, running almost diagonally across the field. One of the two pro­posed football fields was to be situ­ated north of this track along with an adjoining grandstand. South of the runway was to be a quarter mile track, banked at the turns so as to permit a "dizzy" pace for the intrepid cyclists. In addition to these sport facilities, another football and base­ball field was provided. The grand­stand was to seat 500 people. The 
NOTRE DAME GRADUATES 
STUDY IN EUROPE 

From the school of architecture, which is now situated on the second floor of the old Law building, comes the report of several Notre Dame graduates who are studying in Eu­rope.' Donald R. Kreis, '29, and Roy Worden sailed September 1 on the 
S. S. Paris of the French line, to 
By 
William J. Masarrail, Jr. 

field was named Cartier Field, after 
the donor. 
In appreciation for the generosity 

of Mr. Cartier, the university sent 
him a beautifully mounted enbossed 
testimonial. The etching was done 
in blue and gold on white parchment. 
Decorating and painting were done by 
the art department of St. Mary's 
Academy. The scroll embraced the 
emblems of nearly every field of sport 
in American colleges and universities 
of that day. It read as follows: 
WARREN A. CARTIER, C.E. '87. 

Greetings From The University of 
Notre Dame 

Grateful for the generosity which prompted you to bestow on your Alma Mater, an enclosed field to be used in perpetuity for the athletic games and contests of the students, the Univer­sity of Notre Dame offers you this assurance of thankfulness. The gift will be forever known as the Cartier Athletic Field, and your name will be inscribed in the list of eminent bene­factors of Notre Dame. By your gen­erous gift you have earned the grate­fulness of the university, and of the students, present and future, to whom you have set a wholesome and con­spicuous example by your loyalty to your Alma Mater and your solicitude for her welfare." 
Such spirit of generosity shall never be forgotten. It prompts us to believe that the memory of this pro­found gift was the dominant urge which aided in keeping intact the un­broken string of victories on Cartier Field from 1905 to 1928. The liberal­ity of the donor lives in the minds of Notre Dame men and inspires the ut­most effort. 
And now old Cartier Field has 

passed, as the focus point of Notre 
Dame's athletic program, but passed 
only in structure, never in memory. 
Paris, France. They intend to study and travel throughout Europe. They are expected to return to America about April 1. 
Donald Kreis in a recent letter speaks of meeting Stephen Nolan at the Fontainebleau School of Fine Arts. Wilfred Fregolle, '13, is now in southern Russia supervising con­struction work for the Soviet govern­ment. 
October, 19W THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
N.D. COACHES "WHO'S WHO >} 
BY E. MORRIS STARRETT, '21, Dean of Football Fans 
(EDITOR'S NOTE: Morrie Starrett, Port Townsend, Washington, has cov­ered over 100,000 miles since 19H fol­lowing Notre Dame teams, first as a stitdent at Notre Dame, later as the most live-wire alumnus on the Pacific slopes. Morrie has Icnown the person­nel of practically all of Rock's oim teams, and through his travels he has met the stars of former firmaments. This wallcing Athletic Guide is back on the campus for the 19S0 season and the Editor has prevailed upon him to set forth in the following brief form the very interesting perineatiyn of national football with Notre Dame's interpretation of it.) 
Notre Dame is marching on. Today a new era begins in "Fighting Irish" football histox-y. In dedicating the newest, most modern and complete stadium in the United States the eyes and ear's of the nation are attentive. East, west, north and south thousands of alumni and friends ai-e hailing the progressive spirit and success of the old school. 
This national intercollegiate game is annually a renewed "civil war." More than ninety Notre Dame men are "generals" in scores of sectors and salients as the 1930 campaign opsns. In many of the great battles of the year men of Notre Dame will be rival leaders. Most of them are already sectional sport leaders. All of them have the tradition of Notre Dame's own forty-thi-ee year gridiron record, unparalleled, to inspire th£m. 
Since 1887 "Fighting Irish" have played 305 games, won 246, tied 11 and lost 48. Knute Eockne's regime as coach has been the inspiration of more than seventy men now coaching. "Rock's" all-time record of 122 games played, 106 won, 3 tied and only 13 lost in thirteen seasons of intersec­tional competition will long stand. 
We have tried to arrange the fol­lowing list of Notre Dame coaches accurately and completely. We are sure we have missed here and there, and will be pleased to receive cor­rections. Here they are, for your in­formation and inspiration. 
Alabama Polytechnic 

WYNNE, KILEV, CANNON—Cotton­belt folks of Auburn like N. D. foot­ball. Chester Wynne, fullback '20-'21, is set for a hard revamping job there after five years at Creighton. Assist­ing is Roge Kiley, pass pirating end of '19-'20-'21, and for four years boss at Loyola, Chicago. Jack Cannon, that one-man-'tedm of the 1929 cham­pions, has guards, tackles and centers to teach. 
Alabama University 

THOMAS—Frank Thomas, quarter­back, '21-'22, will succeed Wallace Wade as boss of the Crimson Tide next year, according to present con­tracts. Frank's five years' success at Chattanooga and two years with Hari-y Mehre at Georgia are prophetic of future promotions. 
Buffalo University 

LEE—Another old-timer^ assistant coach at Notre Dame, "BifT" Lee has stepped into the coaching game at Buffalo. "Rock's" old friend expects to build a strong team in a few years. 
Boston College 

Mcil/ANaiON—Big John is going big in his third year as line coach. As tackle for Rockne's '24-'25-'26 teams he had few equals and his success at Boston has been as complete. 
California University 

ANDREWS — "Slip" Madigan lost hard for once, when "Nibs" Price coaxed Frank Andrews, tackle '16-'17, to Berkeley to help stop St. Mary's and to introduce certain Notice Dame features to the "Golden Bear." "Bodie" had been Madigan's line builder for six years. 
Catholic University 

BERGMAN—"Little Dutch," Arthur J., sensational sprint halfback of the '15-'16 and '19 Irish, goes eastward as head coach after three years assist­ing at Minnesota and two previously at Dayton. 
Columbia University 

MURPHY—Notre Dame's own west­ern representative institution at Port­land has been making football history in the northwest. Eugene Murphy, quarterback '19, now carries on the traditions begun by Madigan, Smith and Harrington for the fourth year. 
Detroit University 

DORAIS, BOERINGER, BROWN, FRED­ERICKS — Another great all-Notre Dame staff, led by Gus Dorais, Rockne's old pal of the '10-'13 days', has found six years of high favor and success. Dorais put Gonzaga, Spo­kane, on the map and now Detroit is warily scheduled. "Bud" Boeringer, center '25-'26; Harvey Brorni, guard '21-'22-'23, and John Frederick, cen­ter '25-'26-'27, are assistants. 
Duqitesne University 

• LAYDEN, BACH—^Pittsburgh gets the Rockne stuff hot. Elmer Layden, fullback '22-'23-'24, and Joe Bach, tackle '23-'24, are demonstrating the Four Horsemen-Seven Mules styles for the fourth year ^vith great suc­cess. Bach was line coach at Syra­cuse for three years previously. 
Dayton University 

BAUJAN — For six years "Butch" Baujan, end '14-'15-'16, has been hit­ting the winning register. 
Des Moines College 

WALSH — Another six-year term coach is Earl Walsh, fullback of '20­'21. The Iowa school has more than held its own in the state conference battles. 
Florida University 

BACHMAN—Charley made it hot for the Missouri valley boys for eight years. Now the giant tackle and weight heaver of '14-'15-'16 begins his third year at Gainesville with another southern title contender. 
Georgetown University 

S JIITH-COLERICK-MURPHY— Eastern grid fans watch with keenest Interest the Rockne inovations at the valiant old capitol city institution. Tommy Mills, Rock's assistant for three years, fortified his new job with Johnny Smith, guard '25-'26-'27, for tivo years Trinity boss; John Colerick, end '27-'28, and Tom Murphy, tackle '28. 
Georgia University 

MEHRE-THOJIAS — For a seventh year Harry Mehre, center '20-'21, guides the devastating destinies of the Athens gridders. Frank "Eat" Thomas stays for the final year before taking the load at Alabama. 
Louisville University 

KING, MCGRATH—^Another six-year term coach, Tom King, end '16-'17, finds favor across the Mason-Dixon line. John McGrath, tackle '28, is line assistant. 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS October, 19S0 
Loyola University 
LAKSOX — Chicago's Loyola gave Dan Lament to the Pacific coast, but kept the Notre Dame idea when in­stalling Frederic "Ojay" Larson, pal of "Hunk" Anderson and George Gipp, center '18-'19-'20, as line coach. 
Loyola University 
LlEB, RILEY—Southern California's Loyola at Los Angeles plans for fu­ture Pacific championships. Our own Tom Lieb, varsity guard, line coach, former Wisconsin instructor, under­took the job. Charley Eiley, famed quarterback '26-'27, made California like him in 1927, will be backfield coach. 
Michigan State 
CKOWLEY, CABBEKRY—"Sleepy," old pastilence halfback of the Four Horse­men, is doing a great job at Lansing his second year. He had four at Georgia with Mehre. Glenn "Judge" Carberry, end '20-'21-'22, is getting the line in shape. 
Manhattan College 
LAW, KENNEALLY—New York City, always Notre Dame football hungry, has lured Johnny Law, guard and captain of the homeless National Champions of 1929. Law expects a strong team at Manhattan College, and has "Tom" Kenneally, reserve quarterback '28-'29, as assistant. 
Mt. Carmel College 
PRELLI—Joe Prelli, varsity halfback of the '25-'27 teams, has begun his second year at Mt. Carmel with ex­cellent prospects. 
Norih Carolina University 
COLLINS, CERNEY, ENRIGHT — An­other Rockne trio are making history down South. "Chuck" Collins, "Bill" Cerney and "Rex" Enright, of the '23­'24-'25 Ramblers are making good for the sectional title for the fourth year. Collins' only defeat last year was credited to Harry Mehre's Georgia outfit. 
Nevada University 
PHILBROOK—That great tackle of the '08,-'09-'10 is giving the Reno in­stitution a strong eleven this year. George has had experience at Idaho, Multonomah Club, Whitman and Whittier in the northwest and is re­garded as one of the best grid mentors of the west. 
U.S. Naval Academy 
MILLER—^"Rip" is back training Uncle Sam's navy boys again. His line will give the Notre Dame stadium dedication assembly something to re­member. As tackle of the '22-'23T'24 Rockets he was "big league." He served as Rock's scout for a year, then to Indiana as line coach. 
Ohio State University 
MILLER—Another Defiance, Ohio, boy has made good. "Don" Miller of the famed Four Horsemen starts his second year as backfield coach at Ohio, after three years at Georgia Tech. Several attractive head coach­ing jobs have been offered and rumor has it that he may move westward next year. 
Purdue University 
KIZER, ELWARD, FLANAGAN—Happy days continue for Purdue. Noble Kizer, guard '22-'23-'24, and Christy Flanagan of the '25-'26-'27 backfields are producing another Big Ten cham­pionship team where Jimmy Phelan left off. Kizer has been at Purdue five years. "Mel" Elward, gamest end '13-'14-'15, has been end and line assistant for three years. 
Rice Institute 
JIEAGHER, NIE5IIC—Huston, Texas, is watching this new combination. After three years' success at St. Ed­ward's, Austin, John Meagher, end '16, is blazing the way his second year for a strong eleven at Rice. "Butch" Niemic, star back '26-'27, is assistant. 
Santa Clara University 
SMITH, SHAW — "Clipper" Smith, midget guard '17-'19, has renovated the Saints and for the second year menaces the St. Mary's, Stanford, Calif., domination of mid-Pacific coast football. He continues his football rivalry with his old teammate, "Slip" Madigan, at St. Mary's. No greater rivalry exists anyvvhere; their game is the "little big game" of the coast. "Buck" Shaw, Adonis formed, tackle '19-'20-'21, is the line coach after service at North Carolina and Nevada. 
St. Mary's College 
MADIGAN, MCNALLY—^"Giant Killer of the West" they call him. Frequent conqueror of California, Stanford and Oregon. "Slip" Madigan, watch-charm guard '17-'19, has developed a power­ful following around San Francisco bay. California stole his old assist­ant, "Bodie" Andrews. This year Vincent McNally, brilliant end and all-Western cage star, is line coach. 
Syracuse University 
DwYER—After seven years as head coach at Niagara University big "Pete" has moved to Syracuse as line coach under Hanson. Dwyer's teams were reminiscent of the Notre Dame champions of '08-'09. Only once de­feated in two years (Michigan 12-6). 
St. Johns College 
BENDA—^Another Minnesota school went Notre Dame this year when "Joe" Benda, end '26-'27, started work at the Collegeville school. 
South Dakota State 
KASPER — "Cy" Kasper, reserve backfield '19, has a difficult job well begun at Brookings, where his "Jack Rabbits" are favored for the confer­ence title this year. 
St. Vincent's College 

CROWE, EDWARDS—For four years "Clem" Crowe, end '23-'24-'25, has ruled at the Beatty, Pa., school with success. "Gene" Edwards, quarter­back '24-'2o-'26, co-captain '25 with "Red" Hearndon, is assistant for the second year. 
St. Xavier College 

MYERS—Joe "Chief" Myers starts his fifth season at the Cincinnati school this year. Varsity baseball, *'15-'16, and a keen student of the Harper-Rockne football tactics which 
are well applied. 
St. Ambrose College 

COTTON — Another five-year man, "Fod" Cotton, tackle '21-'22, has done well at Davenport with little material. 
St. Charles College 

EATON—The Helena football fans have high hopes of breaking into the Rocky Mountain conference soon. Wil­bur Eaton, end '24, and former fresh­man coach here, is slowly developing an effective squad for his fourth year. 
Spring Hill College 

REESE — Louisianians find Frank Reese, end '23-'24, capable at Spring Hill, and for the fourth year showing a promising squad. 
St. Louis University 

WALSH, MAX\VELL, WYNNE—A new Rockne triumvirate begins a new era of football affairs at St. Louis this fall. Charles ''Chilly" Walsh, end '25-'26-'27, succeeded to Heartley An­derson's job. Assisting are Joe Max­well, center '24-'25-'26, and Elmer Wynne, fullback '26-'27. 
St. Thomas College 

BOLAND, MAYER—Notre Dame's rep­resentative Minnesota school already pi-esses to the front in state collegiate competition with Joe Boland, tackle '24-'25, as head coach, assisted by Frank Mayer, guar-d '26. Boland formerly assisted Adam Walsh at Santa Clara. 
SL Viator's College 

DAHMAN—The Bourbonnais school promises to be a strong contender for Little Nineteen conference honors un­der Ray "Bucky" Dahman, halfback '26-'27. 
Washington University 

PHELAN, LAMONT — Pacific coast football fans watch with interest the new tide of affairs at Seattle. Jimmy Phelan, quarterback '16-'17, fresh 
October, 19S0 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
from Big Ten triumphs of seven years, climaxed by an undisputed championship for Purdue last year, is in command of the "Husky" destinies. Assisting is Dan Lamont, reserve linesman, *and Loyola, Chicago head coach. "Eddie" Collins, end '28-'29, was included in Phelan's staff until health forced a vacation for this year. 
Washington-Lee University 

OBEKST—After three great years at Catholic High, Philadelphia, "Kain­tuck" has moved into the Southern conference. Early reports indicate a fine year for the tackle of '22-'23. 
Wabash College 

VAUGHA.V—The dean of the one-job coaches, no changes, for Notre Dame football men is probably Robert "Pete" Vaughan at Crawfords\'ilIe. Barring K. K. R., of course. Vaughan, a giant backfield man of the champs of '08-'09, has had the reins for thirteen years. 
Wichita University 

GEBERT-LOCKE—Kansas state foot­ball meets the Notre Dame gridiron idea for the first time when Al Geb­iiart, quarterback '2S-'29, and "Joe" Locke, guard, '29 complete this sea­son at the Wichita school. 
Villanova College 

STUHLDREHER, HUNSINGER, REAGAN­—Led for si.x years by Hari-y Stuhl­dreher, master mind and quarterback of the 1924 National Champions, another great Catholic school has be­come a football leader. Assisting at Villanova are "Ed" Hunsinger, end '23-'24, and "Bob" Reagan, center '22-'23. 
Yale Wiiversity 

WALSH—All-American center, 1924, and head coach at Santa Clara for three years fitted "Ad" Walsh for his line coaching job at Yale. The suc­cess of the Eli's forwards last year insured Booth's fame and many tributes to Walsh's ability. 
Prep Schools Too 

Many former Notre Dame varsity men are coaching or assisting at va­rious high and preparatory schools. It has been impossible to get the com­plete list, but here are some of them: 
HAYES, "Dave"—End '17, Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn. B.4RRY, "Norm" —Half '18-'19-'20, De Lasalle, Chicago, 111. DiENERT, "Joe"—Reserve line, Cath­olic High School, Philadelphia, Pa. LA.MBEAU, Earl—Fullback '18, East High, Green Bay, Wis. HARMON, "Joe" —Center '2 § St. Xavier's, Louisville, Ky. DUFFV, "Dan"—Reserve back. Holy Name, Cleveland, Ohio. 
HoLTOX, Barry — Reserve line, Wichita Falls High School, Texas. 
DUGGAN", Edward — Reserve back, Houston High School, Texas. 
Notre Dante University 

ROCKXE, ANDEBSON, CHEVIGNY, VOE­DISCH, VEZIE, JONES—^As Notre Dame starts on the way to a second suces­sive national title it is scarcely neces­sary to record the staff personnel. Each has won spurs under Eockne, great end of the '11-'12-'13 undefeated Irish. Anderson, varsity guard deluxe 'i8-'19-'20-'21, affectionately dubbed "Hunk," is with us again after two years at St. Louis. Previously he was "Rock's" righthand line boss for six years. Jack Che^ngny, halfback '26­'27-'28, and "Ike" Voedisch, end '25­'26-'27, teach their specialties for a second year. "Manny" Vezie, end '28­'29, and "Bill" Jones, line reserve, are handling the promising freshman squad. 
BOOKS 

I I 
Patch, by the Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C, '11," a series of sketches sub­titled "Memories of An Irish Lad," which attracted such wide-spread and favorable comment in the Ave Maria, have been compiled in attractive style in one volume by the Ave Maria Press. Price 51.50. 
Father Carroll's stories of the eleven-year old Patch, a boy of the Crags, is as full of warmth and sweet­ness and substance as the warm bread and jam that are the ultimate destiny of its hero. 
All of the richness of the Gaelic use of English is there, used to ex­press, with presumably historical back­ground, the intensely human life of the people of the Crags. 
Being intensely human it has pathos and a thread of the unending struggle for existence of those less gifted with the world's goods. But in dealing with the people it does, it mirrors their humor, that inimitable Irish garnish to life which gives it a taste that wealth has often envied. It mirrors their spiritual beauty, a beauty that has shone through the dark veneer of poverty and oppression with such force that Ireland, even to those who live there, has become the borderland of Heaven. 
The sketches deal with things that on the index page seem simple, but things that in the telling involve life, romance, tragedy, religion, philoso­phy. A thing that is, to phrase it popularly, simply beautiful, usually proves to be beautifully simple. 
So it is with Father Carroll's Patch. If you have a drop of Gaelic blood, if you are human, and have not read Patch in the Ave Maria, the ALUMNUS heartily recommends it. The purchase of the swan will make you smile even when you get your Army tickets. As Father Carroll so eloquently employs it. Ah, dear! 
On Poetry is the title of a new book written by Professors Andrew Smithberger, M.A., '27, and Camille McCole, MA.., '27, of the Notre Dame English Faculty and now used as a te.vt in all of the Sophomore English classes throughout the University. Prepared chiefly as a study of the nature of poetry and those more sim­ple forms which constitute the essen­tials in really understanding and ap­preciating poetry itself, the volume is at the same time sufficiently thor­ough to prove of value to even the more advanced student. It includes chapters on rhythm and meter, the sonnet, the more important of the stahzaic forms, the French forms, and free verse. 
• The study of poetic forms usually proves a difficult one for most college students but in On Poetry the authors have presented their material with a freshness which should go far in help­ing anyone ride this bete noir. For one thing, they have followed the in­ductive method of approaching their subject: instead of merely listing the rules for the various forms of poetry, they begin by quoting interesting examples of the forms themselves and then call the students' attention to the rules which govern such forms. They have avoided as many technical terms as possible and, approaching their problem with the conviction that the way to study poetry is to study poetry itself, they have succeeded in writing a volume that should increase anyone's understanding and love of the art. 
Perhaps one of the most interesting 
and original chapters is a Symposium which contains definitions and com­ments on the nature of poetry. Here are included not only the better-known definitions by older poets, but also contributions from Robinson, Ficke, Jeffers, Reese, Wheelock, Lind­say, Masters, Sarett, Neihardt, and several other living poets. Most of these latter have been selected from personal letters which Professors ' Smithberger and McCole have in their possession and which have conse­quently never been published. "Next to being a great poet is the power of understanding one," the authors of On Poetry quote from Longfellow, and this Symposium is an interesting and fresh step indeed in bringing 
about such an understanding. 
The book sells for a dollar and fifty-cents and may be purchased at the University Book Store. 
Notre Dame's First Football Team 
By FRANK J. SVOBODA 
Wm^ 
T
HE University of Notre Dame stepped into the realms of foot­ball history in the Fall of 1887 when they scheduled a game with the champions of the West, the Uni­versity of Michigan, on November 27, 1887. The game itself could not be considered a matched contest because Notre Dame had, but a few weelcs before the game, organized a group of men with the possibility of their learning a few tricks. The game had been scheduled with the sole purpose of instructing the chosen few in the fundamentals of the game then called Rugby. 
Just before the game the men went through their paces in a little signal practice and scrimmage, the men were placed irrespective of their school. They must have been endowed with genuine sportsmanship, for who could imagine rivals scrimmaging witli one another in these days? Scrimmage over, the two teams lined up as follows: 
NOTRE DAME JIICHIGAX 
Fullback 
H. Jewett J. L. Duffy 
Halfbacks 
J. Cusack J. E. Duffy 
H. Luhn E . McPhei-an 
Quarterback 
G. Cartier R. F. Farrad 
Ceil ter Rush 
G. A. Houck W. W. Harless 
Rush Line 
F. Fehr F. Townsend 
C. Nelson E. M. Sprague 
B. Sawldns F. H. Knapp 
W. Springer W. Fowler 
T. O'Eegan G.W.DeHaven 
P. P. Maloney M. Wade 
The game ended at the half, at that time called first inning with the score 8-0 favor of Michigan. 
Notre Dame received its official baptism in football en Friday, April 20, 1888. To be concise, the team 
^\ 

played its opponents, the University of Michigan, on two consecutive days. Friday and Saturday, the first game being played as an exhibition for in­habitants of the nearby communities on the field of the Green Stocking Ball Park in South Bend. The game was described as very e.xciting, and included much kicking of the ball and rushing by the men of the team, and ended with a score of 26-6, in favor of the University of Michigan. 
The second game was played for the benefit of the students at the Uni­versity on their own grounds, and ended with the scare of 10-4 in the visitors' favor. 
The team of the year 1SS7-SS con­tributed to the country capitalists, judges, high army officials, physicians and business men. They came from Washington in the West, South to Texas and East to Michigan. 
The personnel of the team con­sisted of: 
October, 1030 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Dr. H. B. Luhn, captain and half­back, Spokane, Washington. 
H. M. "Hal" Jewett, halfback, Chi­cago, Illinois. George A. Houck, tackle, Portland, Oregon. Joseph L. Hepburn, end, Detroit, Michigan. 
Frank "Dutch" Fehr, center, Louis­ville, Kentucky. 
F. H. "Dad" Springer, end, Colum­bus, Georgia. Ed. Prudhomme, fullback, Ber­muda, Louisiana. Patrick J. Nelson, guard, Dubuque, Iowa. Eugene "Butch" Melady, tackle, Omaha, Nebraska. 
No squad of a hundred or two hun­dred players in the days of 'S7-SS. There were only eleven suits in the University, which necessarily meant only eleven men to fill them. No padded pants, nor shoulder pads were worn in those days. The suits were of canvas and resembled closely the baseball uniforms of today. The game itself was far more open. There were no mass formations or forward passes in the early days of the game, but kicking and running plays were used frequently. A paid coach was unknown at that time, but the players practiced against other students with­out even knowing the first thing about the game. 
NOTRE DAME ADMITTED INTO ARCHITECTURE ASSOCIATION 
Graduates of the school of archi­tecture at Notre Dame will hereafter enjoy the advantages that accrue from the University's newly acquired membership in the Association of Col­legiate Schools of Architecture. Notre Dame was admitted to the association at the annual meeting of the e.xecu­tive committee, held in Washington, according to an announcement made by Reverend Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, dean of the College of Engineering at the University. 
Students graduating from archi­tectural schools or univei-sities be­longing to this association are ex­cused from e.\aminations when apply­ing for membership in the -American Institute of Architects. Graduates are also e.\empt from examinations in those states which require registra­tion for the practice of architecture. 
Many fine drawings are being turned out daily by the architects of the University. Only recently a Notre Dame graduate, Richard Zimmerly, was accorded highest honors in the competition of the Beaux .A.rts Insti­tute. The architects now occupy the old law building, where ample light and space is provided for drafting. 
FATHER O'DONNELL SPEAKS ON CATHOLIC EDUCATION 
The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, 
C.S.C, president of the University, 
recently delivered an important and 
interesting series of talks on Catholic 
Education on the Catholic Hour from 
the New York studios of the National 
Broadcasting Company, The addresses 
were given on consecutive Sundays, 
September 7, 14, and 21. Fathsr 
O'Donnell was invited to speak by the 
National Council of Catholic Men, 
which sponsors the Catholic Hour. 
JIany leaders of the Church have spoken on the Catholic Hour program, covering various phases of Catholic thought and action. The only ad­dresses on education thus far given were those presented by Father O'Donnell. The selection of the presi­dent of Notre Dame to deliver the talks on this vital issue was both a tribute to the academic prestige of the University and to the scholarly at­tainments of its president. 
The general subject of Father 
PARKING APPROVED 

The Eockne traffic and parking sys­tem for Notre Dame's new $750,000 stadium was tried out for the first time Oct. 4 and with a little more re­fining should perform for next Satur­day's visitors to the Na%-y game with the clockwork efficiency of the coach's football teams. 
Thirty-five hundred automobiles were steered into the convenient and ample parking spaces this afternoon for the Southern Methodist game over well marked and policed routes that dodged the local traffic in the South Bend business district. With police guidance to eliminate stops for through streets in South Bend, twelve thousand cars should be able to get to the stadium with a minimum of delay next Saturday. 
The mileage here from the Tribune Tower was 99.8. Route followed was over the outer drive and South Shore drive, following U. S. 41 marker, over Indianapolis boulevard and turning south with this marker in Hammond, Ind., thence to Indiana 6 Ridge road to Westville, Ind., 2 to U. S. 20, and thence following the "to stadium" signs posted by the Chicago Motor Club. 
Knute Eockne personally supervised the traffic and parking arrangements, appreciating the fact that attendance at football games depends to an ap­preciable measure upon facilities for O'Donnell's talks was the philosophy 
of Catholic Education. This he 
treated under three aspects: 1. "The 
Aim of Catholic Education"; 2. "The 
Method of Catholic Education"; 3. 
"The Support of Catholic Education." 
Twenty minutes were allotted to the 
main discourse each week, and ten 
minutes later in the hour to answer­
ing questions pertinent to the subject. 
For the first two talks, Mr. Graham 
McNamee was the announcer, and at 
the last talk, Mr. John Young pre­
sided. A musical program, under the 
direction of Father Finn, C.S.P., who 
received an honorary LL.D. from 
Notre Dame in 1917, was given as 
part of the broadcast by The Med­
ievalists, a mixed double quqrtet, and, 
at the final talk, by the Paulist 
Choristers. 
The addresses are being published in pamphlet form through the N. C. 
W. C, by the National Council of Catholic Men. 
automobiles. He hobbled over the grounds this summer with George Barton, traffic engineer for the Chi­cago Motor club, located approaches to the storage lots, lanes for moving vehicles and directions for entrances and exits. After seeing the system in operation. Barton was nearly satis­fied with what a football coach can devisi in traffic engineering. 
Motorists from Chicago have two routes to enter the city, over U. S. 20 and over Indiana Z, which becomes Lincoln Way west of South Bend. The latter is longer by about a mile, but will probably be less congested on days of big games because it is less known. 
Policemen, firemen, and Boy Scouts aid in urging a continuous rapid movement of traffic, and little en­couragement is needed for motorists who attend football games. Fifty-five • and sixty miles an hour are common speeds with the fans in the open coun­try and thirty-five to forty miles an hour is held by many within the city here.. 
Parking is px-ohibited on football days on some of the South Bend streets—a Rockne innovation—and one way regulations are contemplated for the big crowds. 
At the parking lots there is one way traffic at the entrances. The cars are stopped with their radiators headed in the direction for departure. They leave over the i-outes they enter. 
— (Chicago Tribune.) 

, to OUCrlANAH 
SOUTH'BEND 
INDIANA 
ROLLINO PRAIR 
NEW CARLIS 

ROAD NO. 
This map, showiiiK motor routes to the Notre Dame stadium, was drnwn by the cnKinecrinK department. City of South ISend, with co-operation froln Knutc Rockne, director of athletics. University of Notre Dumc, and published by fhe ChicuKo Alotor Club. 
The parking spaces are so arranged that those who drive in from any certain direc­tion will be directed to leave over the same route. Ky obeying the traffic directions, you will be able (o arrive and leave more quickly and pleasantly, and will enable others to do likewise. 
CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB St. JoHC|)h Cuunly Uraiich, Chuinbcr or Commerce HIdfr. 
218 W. Colfax Ave.. Phone 3-8295 HendiiunrtiTH: (!(i KnHl Simlh Water St., ChlcaKu 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
GILBERT K. CHESTERTON ARRIVES TO BEGIN NOTRE DAME LECTURE COURSES 
Gilbert Keith Chesterton, famous British novelist, poet, playwright and philoso­pher, is shown upon his arrival in South Bend to deliver a six weeks' course of lectures at the University of Notre Dame. He was received by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donncll, C.S.C., president of the University. Left to right. Father O'Donnell, Mr. Chesterton's secretai-y, Mrs. Chesterton and Mr. Chesterton. 
Rubicund, rotund and genial, with a flowing black caps engulfing his 275 pounds, Gilbert Keith Chesterton, one of England's most famous present-day writers, arriA'ed in South Bend Satur­day evening, Oct. 4, for a six-weeks' course of lectures on English litera­ture and history, at the University of Notre Dame. 
The eminent novelist, playivright, poet and philosopher, who was ac­companied by Mrs. Chesterton and a secretary, was welcomed by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, president of the University. The party will spend Sunday at Notre Dame and will then be installed in a house for their stay in South Bend. 
It was Mi\ Chesterton's first visit to the United States in 10 years. He came here from Ontario, Canada. 
The role of lecturer to college stu­dents is a new one for him, the writer said. 
"Because a man has written a few books about a subject, they think he can teach a subject," he said with a smile, "but I don't know why they should think I am an educator, nor even educated." 
This from the author of "Magic," a gem of a play; the "Father Brown" stories, which brought high literary art and the evocation of moods to the old detective story form: "The Man Who Was Thursday," a mystery novel of great merit; and many scholarly and most original essays on philoso­phy, politics, and religion. 
The tall, massive, becloaked figure, the wide-brimmed black hat, drew the stares of those in the Union sta­tion when he arrived. After purchas­ing a handful of cigars at the station stand, he gave the reporters a few minutes. 
"I would hesitate to make any com­ment on modern American writers," 
he said, "because I might forget to 
mention someone that I should. There 
.is Thornton Wilder," he said, refer­
ring to the author of "The Bridge of 
San Luis Eey," "and the more mys­
tical writers." 
Hundreds of Notre Dame students have enrolled for the lectures, which will be given Monday, Tuesday, Wed­nesday, Thursday and Friday nights, and Friday afternoon. The subjects treated ^vill be, alternately, the litera­ture and history of the Victorian period in England.. 
Father O'Donnell said that arrange­
ments have not yet been completed 
for several additional lectures which 
will be held in a larger meeting place, 
possibly the school gymnasium, to 
which the general public may be in­
vited. 
Many South Bend admirers of 
Chesterton have expressed the desire 
to hear him during his stay at Notre 
Dame and in all probability such an 
opportunity will be afforded them. 
—(From the Neivs-Times.) 

NOTE: All alumni are invited to the 
Chesterton lectures. 
NEW TOWER CLOCK BEING PLACED ON SACRED HEART CHURCH 
The installation of a Seth Thomas 
tower clock in Sacred Heart church 
was begun last Monday. The work is 
progressing rapidly and it is expected 
that the timepiece will be ready for 
operation the first part of next week. 
The new clock is automatically wound by electricity, yet is not run electrically. It is equipped with a device which regulates it to run within a variation of thirty seconds a month. The timepiece will strike every quarter hour: once at the quar­ter, twice at the half, three times at the three-quarter mark, and four times at the hour. Those who are afraid that the striking will keep them awake nights may calm their fears as a silencer has been attached to the clock to eliminate the quarter-hour striking betiveen the hours of 
10:00 p. m. and 7:00 a. m. The timepiece will also be equipped to ring the Angelus automatically every six hours. 
Another improvement over the old clock is that it will have four dials instead of three. Each dial is to be fitted with lights which will go on automatically at the hour set. The hands on the tower dials will be set by the hands on the mechanism. "This eliminates climbing into the tower in case the hands have to be rgset. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
A WORD ABOUT ROCKNE 
-. By WALTER BEESLEY 
F
ROM the announcement of the strenuous schedule planned for the Notre Dame football team during the 1929 season, the football world has wondered what was going on at the Rockne home. Some so-called experts predicted a loss of at least two games during that trying season. In fact, most of them did. But what did Rockne care for the opinions of those on the sidelines? Hasn't he made them just a little more foggy with his 1930 schedule? 
Each year brings new surprises for the rabid fans, and since most of these surprises come from the ever alert brain of Knute K. Rockne, this man is watched by all fandom with eager eyes. Rockne is to football what Patou is to fashions, and that means he sits on the throne as king, dictating what is to be the latest creation and what is to be thrown aside. We add this latter comment mth apologies to the National Foot­ball Board, should they misinterpret our meaning. 
But who is this Rockne? This is a question which would be answered with many loud laughs by anyone familiar with collegiate activities. -'\.s has often been said, Rockne has be­come a household word, and if a per­son who is old enough to read the papers doesn't know the meaning of it, he has a lot to learn. 
This beloved Notre Dame coach is known throughout the United States, not personally, but surely through some picture or newspaper column, or at least hearsay. To this last class he is merely an extraordinary foot­ball coach; but ask anyone who has had anything to do with him what he thinks of the popular coach and you will hear a wonderful little story. 
Rockne began to exert his influence in modem football with the introduc­tion of the forward pass while still an undergraduate at Notre Dame. He wreaked havoc with opponents and completely bewildered them with the new style of attack. But then came graduation, a time when a college star sinks into at least temporary oblivion. It was not so with Rockne; he remained as assistant to Coach Harper from 1913 until 1916, during which time he also handled the track team and taught chemistry. His pop­ularity was in its infancy. 
As head coach, Rockne began the numerous tricky plays and shifts which astounded everyone. He cre­ated the famous Notre Dame shift which had the coaches and officials up in the air in 1921. 

Rockne is what the psycho-analysts might call a "football complex, a bundle of instincts and conscious states governed by a predominant idea of turning out football players and football teams." He is a master of psychology, the acme of personal­ity, and the example of just how crushing perfect execution can be. He wastes no words, nor makes false or empty gestures; he is all "business." And as one keen obsen'er has said: "He thinks of things a year ahead, executes them a season ahead, and spends the winter months watching his rivals catch up." 
Rock is the one boss on the field, superintending every move on the part of his boys; but those boys rec­ognize that he utilizes his authority always with one object in view, one object toward which they all are working — their own perfection and the superiority of the team as a whole. 
Rockne loves his boys and above all else he works to turn them out as real men. Through the medium of athletics he prepares them for future life, believing that by physical con­tact an athlete gets the moral con­fidence to withstand the knocks re­ceived after his school days are over. While Rock is thoroughly engrossed with the success of his football team, he keeps a watchful eye on its scho­lastic standing, and is as proud of an honor student on his team as he is of an all-American. 
Rockne is strong, courageous, and determined; he is also lovable, de­lightful, and ^vitty. He is stern but he is considerate. When a game is on he drives his men, not hard, but enough to keep them on edge; when the game is over he binds their in­juries. Everyone is behind "good old Rock." 
Besides being the outstanding fig­ure on the football field, Rock is "King on the Campus" as well. His influence over the young men on the campus is remarkable. No student is afraid to speak to him and no student has ever gone unanswered intention­ally; there is always a "Hello" for everybody. The students are as sub­
jects to this King; what he says goes. There is a laughable incident told about Rockne. It happened one night back in 1924. A group of students were attending a performance in one of the South Bend theatres, and not being satisfied with the antics of a particular set of actors, began "raz­zing" them. Naturally enough, the performers resented it. Before the show was over, all concerned were on fighting edge, and at the conclusion the students stalked to the hotel to wait for the actors. The hotel pro­prietor, sensing a riot, went to the telephone. He didn't call the Presi­dent of the University, nor any other official; he called Rockne. Rock jumped into his car and hurried to the scene of the impending battle. He walked into the midst of the fel­lows and said: "Hey, you fellows. Go on home." The boys left and the grudges were forgotten — Rock had spoken his piece. This incident is cited to show the influence which Rockne has over the students at Notre Dame, and it is not an exag­geration. He has no enemies, not even his fellow coaches; they all re­spect him, both as a coach and as a man. Another writer has said: "Out of the West they have come to call him the greatest of coaches — out of the East they've come to brand him the master mind of the gridiron, but away from Notre Dame they go con­vinced that he is more than a coach and more than a master mind." 
The recent illness of the famous coach has caused no little worry among his followers who wonder what would happen should Rockne be un­able to return to the position he loves. But they needn't worry about their idol; he acted wisely and recovered completely and is on the sidelines for every game in 1930. Another coach might have given up his profession after such a siege, but Rockne is not another coach; he is an extraordinary man, physically and mentally; he is not the kind to give up. His Alma Mater needs him. That alone is suf­ficient reason to spur him on to re­covery; but aside from that, he loves the game well enough to want to come back. If he should decide other­wise—well, he is the Atlas of the football world, and if he weakens, that football world may be crumpled at his feet. 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Dedication Address of The Notre Dame Stadium 
(October 11, 1930) 

By Frank E. Henng, Litt.B., '98, LL.B., '02, President of the Alumni Association, Former-Captain and First Coach of Notre Dame Football. 
 those that aided in the planning 

T
o 
and the financing and the building 

of The Notre Dame Stadium, we are under obligation. The architects and engineers have incorporated the merits of other stadia and have avoided their defects. The construc­tion has meticulously met the specifi­cations. This is the most modem of any stadium in the country devoted entirely to football. Everyone of the 55,000 seats has a splendid view of the playing field. Notre Dame now boasts a bowl as distinctive as are her football teams. 
Almost a century has passed since a few devoted religious founded Notre Dame, and dedicated their lives and the lives of those who should follow in their steps to the spiritual, mental, and physical needs of American youth. How conscientiously Father Edward Sorin and his associates and succes­sors have kept the faith! 
From where you sit, you may hear, of a quiet afternoon, the mellow chimes in the Church of the Sacred Heart—a cathedral consecrated to the spiritual needs of Catholic youth. From the rim of this coliseum you are almost in the shadow of the Golden Dome, which rises in the cen­ter of an ever-widening circle of modern buildings devoted to the en­richment of the mind. And today, we are guests and participants at the dedication of this magnificent stadium destined to play a vital part in mold­ing the character and in disciplining the bodies of Notre Dame students. 
Every Notre Dame man who has 

faithfully served his Alma Mater on 
the athletic field has an inalienable 
right to share in the glories of this 
day. 
Notre Dame is an advocate of clean, vigorous athletics. Each student is encouraged to excel in the sport for which he has an aptitude. President Charles L .O'Donnell has made kno\vn to the world our position; we accept gladly the discipline of competitive sports; we especially favor games in which high proficiency is attained only by merging achievements of in­dividual players into the closely-woven pattern of team-play. The end sought is not to be read in the records of our athletic teams: it is to be found in the achievements of the men from Notre Dame in the glorious contests of life. 
The gymnasium and the athletic fields are important in the curricula at Notre Dame. Of what use the in­structed mind, if the body is not qual­ified to do its part ? How sadly handi­capped is spiritual vision, if the body is not strong to serve. The atmos­phere at Notre Dame is charged with the conviction that every student should e.xercise for recreation and for health. To that end, every residence hall has teams as various as are the sports. Athletics are not the interest of a few score only of outstanding athletes; not limited to a few hundred aspirants for places on the Varsity teams; but, literally, the deep con­cern of thousands of students who find rare pleasure and bodily profit in insuring strong bodies to house well-stored minds. 
Tradition is a compound of rever­ence and pride and unselfish service. Notre Dame traditions live. They are cherished and perpetuated. Over the years, the devoted men who have built this institution have established records of unselfish service and sacri­fice that have reacted convincingly and beneficially on those who have come under their influence. 
What other American college or university during the last quarter of a century has contributed so many names that deserve to adorn football's Hall of Fame? What other institu­tion during the last two decades has produced so many AAA teams that have carried to victory the colors of their Alma Mater? Notre Dame teams — physically fit, splen­didly coached, and inspired by the ideal, "Each for all and all for Notre Dame" — have thrilled millions of spectators and inspired the youth of the nation to play the game of foot­ball— and the game of life — in the spirit of the rules. 
The sod that carpets the floor of this stadium is rich in traditions. For a quarter of a century, athletes who have added to the fame of Notre Dame have raced over its emerald surface carrying our colors to victory, or have opposed with their bodies charging opponents seeking the cov­eted goal line. 
The list of famous Notre Dame athletes who have trod this sod is a long one: Lew Salmon, fullback ex­traordinary; Captain Harry Miller, the irresistible; Eockne and Dorais, who first perfected the forward pass; George Gipp, the most versatile player on attack in Notre Dame his­tory; the Four Horsemen and their comrades, whose deeds are part of the nation's football traditions; the team of 1929, with Cannon, the per­fect defensive guard. All these and countless others, burning with the will to achieve for Notre Dame, have left as a legacy to future athletes this priceless heritage — the historic sod of Cartier's Field. 
The wearers of the cleated shoes of other days have left the shaded walls of Notre Dame to play their parts in the contests of life. Of these men, almost one hundred have elected to coach—^to carry to the eager youths of other institutions the intricacies of our shift plays and the technique of the Notre Dame defense. These men have also taken with them Notre Dame ideals, the passionate belief in the spirit of fair play, the conviction that a virile body should house the mind. 
Today, in every part of our country, under the appraising eyes of Notre Dame coaches, youths are accepting the precepts believed in and taught by the men of Notre Dame. This is indeed a substantial contribution to the welfare of the Republic. 
Knute Rockne, head coach at Notre Dame for many years, is conspicuous among the great athletic directors of the country. He believes and teaches that the body is an instrument to be directed by the mind, and that an excellent student and an outstanding athlete may walk under the same hat. He is the craftsman whose football masterpieces give pleasure to a na­tion. His inventions and technique so influence the game that many sports writers call this period the Notre Dame Era. His pupils are in­creasingly in demand to train other teams in the Notre Dame system. 
To Knute Rockne and those thou­sands of athletes who, inspired by him, have added to the fame of Notre Dame, this ceremony is more than a dedication; it is a testimonial. 
We can truly say that our athletic opponents are our friends. Our an­nual contests with many of them are historic. We especially treasure our relations with the two national serv­ice academies — West Point and An­
(Conttnued on Pace 67) 

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
UNIVERSITY DEDICATES NEW STADIUM 
World" 
Because of the ten-foot depression of the playing field below the sur­rounding ground level, the Stadium appears to be low from outside the walls, increasing the effect of its 670 foot length. The width is about 480 feet. As described in the original announcements, the structure is pi-ac­tically rectangular, with the excep­tion of rounded corners, so that the ends and sides are pulled in much closer to the playing field than can be the case in a bowl. The principal entrance is on Eddy Street wth, at present, a large dirt walk about the outside. 
The front rows of seats at both the sides and ends of the Stadium are 30 feet from the side and end lines of the playing field, respectively. Play­ers and officials will not be able to speak freely under these circum­stances, everj'thing said being as for publication. Sixty rows of seats, ar­
"Notre Dame Stadium, Oct. 11":— this date-line opens a new era at Notre Dame. 
The ALUMNUS is rushing to press before this event—BUT, we hold cer­tain facts to be self-evident. 
No more criticisms from our con­temporaries for excessive travel, a circumstance that, unlike our other football attributes, was thrust upon us. From now on, this year's sched­ule and next year's schedule indicate conclusively, the world will beat a considerable path to the door on the Eddy Street road. 
The stadium at Notre Dame is not the result of football hysteria, a structure erected on impulse. It is the conservative recognition by the University of the essential need for a stadium of sufficient capacity to in­sure games with teams of the strength demanded by the consistent caliber of 
LOOKING U P AT THE PRESS BOX—"Eyes of the 
Notre Dame's teams over a long peri­od of years. Ideals of sportsmanship and public opinion alike require a team to play other teams in at least its approximate class. Notre Dame's former humble facilities, in effect, made it almost impossible to secure competent opponents on the home field. The new stadium, modest as modern stadia rise, does much to remedy this. 
The Stadium, like the sport it houses, supplements harmoniously the campus on which it is placed. It is located south of the former stands and joins the general southern move­ment of the campus buildings across the former Dorr Road now called the University Road, which runs between the Niles Road and Eddy Street. The Law Building and the Dining Halls are the central and western realiza­tions of this southern trend. 
October, 1030 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
ranged at angles reminiscent of the German-produced movies, give every­one a clear view of the field. The opera-glass concession locally is a total loss. 
Two hundred and forty-four bo.ves, each seating six, are provided in the front of the east and west stands, preponderantly the west. Most of these boxes are sold for ten years to 
N. D. patriots. 
The Stadium seats fifty-four thou­sand four hundred people, e.Kclusive of players and press box. Those who know the Notre Dame teams and who have seen the press box might well add substantially to the figure. The press box accommodates 262 reporters with desk room, lights, heat, and Morrie Starrett to pour tea, according to the latest advices. A lunch will be served to the visiting pressmen be­tween halves. Special facilities are pro­vided for radio broadcasting and press photographers. Hospitality is going to be on a par with football. The old question: "Are Press Persons Hu­man?" seems to have been answered favorably. 
Inside the stadium, — though it is built for football and nothing else— good use has been made of odd space. Varsity dressing rooms' occupy space at the north ends, those vital rendez­vous where many games are really ENTRANCE TO THE NEW STADIUJI won. A concourse e.xtends around the 
More Than a Good Front
entire structure under the stands. This is cindered, to give John Nichol­into the stamis with relays of hot barricaded office in the structure to son's speed demons a good quarter-dogs. There are also ample toilet be used for transactions the day of mile practice track, and to speed up facilities for men and women acces­the game. the various vendors as they go from sible from this concourse. The Ath­one concession stand to another or letic Association will have a well-A run-way, depressed ramp if you 
prefer something dismal, opens at the 
north end of the Stadium. Trucks 
with equipment can enter here. Pag­
eants will be easy through this entry, 
• more poetic persons have remarked. One or two sanguine fans have re­marked that it provided access for an ambulance. Which brings the more temperate thought that a first-aid room is provided in the new structure for emergencies other than on the teams. 
The structural part of the new Sta­dium is of reinforced concrete. The present part has more reinforcements than Rock's teams because the Sta­dium is built with an eye to football's possible future. Tiers, if it seems fairly conclusive that they will not be idle tiers, can be added to the present rows of seats, to expand the capacity some thirty thousand. If busi­ness still progresses, the Tiouse can call for a new deck, upper, and in­crease the total capacity to one hun­dred thirty thousand before the laws of engineering call a halt. That will probably provide for the immediate future. 
A SECTION OF THE CoxconRSE 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, J 930 
Football Heroes That Have Died 
By JOHN WESLEY HARTMAN 
A
CROSS the battlefields of foot­ball there have traveled hun­dreds of famous warriors. Many are still admired for the excep­tional achievements they attained on the gridiron. Some have become lost in the unsounded chasm of oblivion; others can never again transport thrills of ecstasy into the hearts of a million football followers; nor will the gridiron ever again feel the tangent impression of their toes. They have played their last game for us; an­swering the call of the Grim Reaper they passed over the Great Divide and are now fighting under the guidance of the one Perfect Referee. 
Such names as Dennis M. Michie, of the Army; Worth Bagley, of the Navy; Dr. Thomas B. Kendrick, of Pittsburg; Captain Murphy, Kirk and Mclnerny, all of Notre Dame, have made their last tackle, their last run, and have gone on. But, we must not forget the immortal of them all, the idol of football fans, who was hailed as the season's most brilliant and greatest jialf-back. The country's foremost critics exhausted their su­perlatives when discussing the foot­ball prowess of Notre Dame's most honored hero, George Gipp. His name will stand forever on the Gridiron Tablet of the Braves, as the one chief who was named captain of the All-Western, All-State, and AII-American in the last year of his splendid ca­reer. All of them have discovered the end of the rainbow, like a dreamer who listlessly wandered down that resplendent arc searching for a little portion of glory, and found it, but forgot in e.\treme happiness that he had attained the end; and from there was summoned by the High Bailiif in the hours of fame to drift over the edge and fall into another world, never to return, yet to be remembered by a memory of a lasting honor. 
Dennis M. Michie of the U. S. Mili­tary Academy, way back in the class of 1S92 is still endeared in the hearts of every cadet. His name has gone down at West Point as the father of Army football. Michie does not gain his fame because he was fated to die a soldier's death on the hill of San Juan; nor because he is the only man who has ever been captain of two Army football teams and at the same time has had the responsibility of coaching them, but because the task was entrusted to him of forming the first Army eleven, for a single game 
against the Navy. Although this game resulted in a defeat of 24-0, Michie held courage and faith, he would not give up because he had lost. In the following year, six games were scheduled, culminating with the Navy at Annapolis. In this game Michie reached the end of his rain­bow and attained fame by scoring three touchdowns and kicking four goals, reversing the previous defeat by a score of 31-16. By his success he enlivened the fire of enthusiasm in the soul of every cadet. Exemplify­ing the Academy's motto, "Duty, Honor, Country," he taught them that to fight bravely upon the gridiron wis as good as courage upon the unhappy field of battle. He became Father of Army football and in honor of his heroic memory the football field at 
•West Point has been named "Michie Stadium." 
In the Spanish American war as captain of Infantry, Michie was or­dered to Cuba. In the charge up San Juan Hill, while at the head of his command, he was killed. Thus, Michie tumbled over the edge of the rainbow, leaving in the spirit of football one of its first heroes, and to West Point he left its sweetest football memory. 
Although death has claimed a num­ber of men who were outstanding stars on the gridiron at Annapolis, such as K. P. Gilchrist, Homer In­gram, H. A. Rawlings, along with a half score of others, there is one who is known as the Navy's most loved hero, and that one is Worth Bagley. At the same time Michie was building his fame as a great hero, of football, so was the most admired hero, Worth Bagley, in the making at the Navy Academy. These two warriors fought against each other as friends on the gridiron, and in the common cause of defending their country they died. Both are equally remembered in pro­found glory. Bagley played on the Navy's first team thirty-six years ago. By his superior kicking and cool head work he carried his team through many a hard game and chalked up victories to the credit of his school. Three Academy medals were awarded to him for his excep­tional skill and ability. The first medal was presented for successfully kicking four goals from the 30 yard line out of five tries. Later he was given a medal for kicking three goals from the 20 yard line at an angle of 45 degrees. Lastly, he was awarded a medal for the half mile run in the 
time of two minutes and 19 3/5 seconds. The story of how Bagley, premier of the Navy's football stars, met his death, is written on bronze plaques and hangs aloft in their hall of fame. It reads thus: "Ensign Worth Bagley was killed in an attack on the shore batteries and some Span­ish gunboats in the harbor of Cadenas Cuba, May 11, 1898. The torpedo boat WINSLOW, to which Ensign Bagley was attached had her steering gear shot away early in action and Ensign Bagley was detailed to super­vise the steering of the vessel by the use of her propellers. This involved arduous labor and constant exposure and he was killed by a shell while he was returning from the engine room to the deck. The officer in command of the WINSLOW, Lieutenant J. B. Bemadou, U. S. Navy, says in his of­ficial report of the action: "The con­duct of Ensign Bagley and the men with him, as well as that of the crew, is beyond commendation." 
So it was that this great hero of Annapolis tumbled over the golden horizon, never again to touch the pig­skin with his talented toe. All of the followers of the Navy's heroes can visualize in their dreams Bagley send­ing the ball between the uprights for markers which carried his team to victor}'. 
The name of Ernest Brazier Cozens has a niche in the athletic hall of fame at the University of Pennsyl­vania. Cozens was not like most of his collegiate fellow-heroes who gained their honor from skillful abil­ity in the backfield position, but ac­quired his glory by becoming one of the greatest centers in the history of Pennsylvania football. 
In 1910, Cozens who was later se­lected by the late Walter Camp for his first Ail-American team', piloted the University eleven through the season with but one defeat to smirch the escutcheon of his captaincy. His leadership and magnificent playing as a roving center has made the team one of the most talked of in the country. 
Cozens was stricken with a heart attack and died instantly during an Alumni-Varsity baseball game in which he played. He was not aware that he had but three more times to be at bat. The first occasion he hit 
a single, after that he connected with the' small oval for a triple; and then came his last time at bat. With 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
a mighty swing he missed; strike one, on the next delivery he missed again, and then like the calm before a storm, he lifted the ball over the edge of the fence for a home run. With his nim­ble limbs he quickly reached the first bag, then feeling a sharp pain cut through his breast, he slowed his pace, step by step he passed over sec­ond, while rounding third he was seen to stagger as if about to fall, but with renewed courage he struggled on until the Great Umpire called him safe, when he fell across the plate dead. So it was that Cozens died playing the game, fighting hard to make a run for victory's sake, before he was called to walk between the goal posts of heaven, and mark up his final score. 
Garland (Jake) Stahl is the fore­most gridiron athlete from the Uni­versity of Illinois. The boys at the Sigma Chi house back in 1898 called him "Jake" when he came to the Uni­versity from Elkhart, Illinois, for he was a big, rangy, country lad. 
So it was that "Jake" Stahl, that magnificent athlete, played on Illini football and baseball teams in the early days of the century and later won national fame as manager of the Boston Red Sox, when they won the American league and world champion­ships in 1912. 
There is no sight on the gridiron more inspiring than to see a player return a punt or kickoff almost the length of the field. It was this abil­ity in Stahl that made him the great­est player who has died and is re­membered on the tablets of the Uni­versity of Illinois. 
The University of Georgia com­memorates its famous deceased hero in remembrances of Von Gammon, who died from injuries sustained on the green field of battle between the University of Georgia and the Uni­versity of Virginia, in 1897. But for­tunately, he does not stand alone. Along side him, Georgia places its greatest heroine, his mother. Follow­ing the sad death of Von Gammon a bill was introduced in the Georgia legislature, prohibiting football in all State institutions. 
This bill passed the legislature, but was vetoed by Governor Atkinson, after Von Gammon's mother made a plea in defense of the world's supreme sport and in vindication of her be­loved son. In protesting she said: "It would be the greatest favor to the family of Von Gammon if your in­fluence could prevent his death from being used as an argument detrimen­tal to the athletic cause and its ad­vancement at the University. His love for his college and his interest in all manly sports, without which he deemed the highest type of manhood impossible, is well known by his class­mates and friends, and it would be inexpressibly sad to have the cause which he held so dear, injured by his sacrifice. Grant me the right to re­quest that my boy's death should not be used to defeat the most cherished object of his life." 
Thus it was that the mother of Georgia's most distinguished war­rior became a heroine, no, became more, a conqueror. In the finely finished halls of the University of Georgia, presented by the University of Virginia, there hangs a beautiful bronze plaque as a memorial to the mother and the athlete. For it is said of Von Gammon, that he had all the elements of a true hero; an ath­lete to be admired, respected and pre­eminently beloved. 
The University of Pittsburgh likes to think of Dr. Thomas B. Kendrick as its greatest hero. Tom was not a great football player. He never thrilled fickle mobs with his prowess, but was a hero by every measure that gauges a man. Heroic deeds too fre­quently pass unnoticed. The real hero prefers to let his deeds rather than his words tell of the man that he is. The lowly scrub w^ho sat upon a foot­ball bench for four years may later have led a raiding squad into the "Hell of No Mans' Land" and had his heroism go unheralded. AU-American football players whose sensational w^ork brough many thrilling victories, may have failed in bigger crises. But Dr. Tom, as he was later called, never failed. Whenever there was a cry for help he answered it, with the best of his lovable character. 
Kendrick was a reserve center in 1914 and 1915, understudy to the fa­mous Bob Peck. By dint of determi­nation, he won letters in 1916 and 1917. Then he passed out of the foot­ball picture for a while and became absorbed in his studies of medicine. He graduated and became a specialist in treatment of tuberculosis, giving his efforts largely to charity in a crusade against the dreaded disease. 
Then he was appointed head physi­cian of the Pittsburgh gridiron team, —that was in 1924. His skill in treating injuries, his genial humor, his warm sympathy, endeared him to all who came to know him. Always smiling, always ready to render serv­ices, Dr. Tom won his way into the hearts of Pittsburgh men, who later named him as their greatest hero. 
In the spring of 1928, Kendrick be­came a proud father. Shortly, after the baby was born, Tom while sitting with Mrs. Kendrick in a hospital room, felt His strength ebbing away. He knew what it was, pernicious anemia. Tom Idssed his wife and child and left^^e room smiling. He was taken to-^Mom not far from his wife's room, ^^x«ie. In a few hours he was gone. JThe memory of a noble character remains. It is the memory of Pittsburgh's immortal hero. Dr. Thomas B. Kendrick. 
Notre Dame has had many great football heroes who have died,—^men who assisted in making the appela­tion, "Fighting Irish," ring true. Captain Murphy and Mclnemy who were not only leading warriors on the gridiron, but also heroes on the bat­tlefield of France. It was over the front lines that both of them heard the Great Quarterback call signals for the last time, sending them into action. As honorably as they fought here upon Cartier Field, just as val­iantly did they meet death on Flan-dor's bloody ground. We are not for­getting, while you are resting in peace; rather we hold your past as a treasure more precious than the wealth of Egypt. 
Now let us turn back to that sad day of December 14, 1920. When at the fresh age of twenty-five, in the flower of youth, there lay listening as the hour of death approached, the world's most perfect gridiron gentle­man, George Gipp. Listening to hear the signals which would shift him over the rainbow's edge. That day he scored his final touchdown. Never again would this Titan Gipp, the fore­most athlete of his day, know the tortures of a hard-fought football game. He has gone to a gridiron strewn with smilax and thomless roses, where the goal posts are made of glittering gold, where the yards are marked- with silver dust, and in the midst, no doubt Gipp is standing erect, kicking 70 yards for a goal. 
George Gipp is the outstanding ' hero of Notre Dame. He alone baf­fled all opposing liSes by his strong thrusting attacks. He was a concrete wall on defense.- He reached glory to the fullest measure by forward pass­ing that was nothing short of phe­nomenal; by punt returning that was a thing of beauty, admired alike by friend and foe. He was called the master mind. Statements were at­tributed to Him expressing the senti­ments of the college world, the critic world, and every lover of football. 
Coach Daly of the Army said: "I'd give anything to have a player of his type. He was a marvel on attack, and a splendid defensive player, and furthermore, he is a gentleman." Critics said that Notre Dame had two teams, and that year had the greatest machine that ever went into action. Daniels in the New York Herald, one of the gridiron's foremost experts, wrote: "He is the wonder man of the West. This man Gipp is Ail-Amer­ican or there is no real Ail-American this fall. If anything can be done on a football field that Gipp can't do, it isn't discernible to the human eye." 
(Continued on Pase 67) 



E-

Around and About the Campus 
QM 
"I don't know what they want me for; all I have ever done is write a book." Yet Washington Hall is being filled night after night for Gilbert Keith Chesterton's lectures on Victo­rian History and Literature. Begin­ning October 6, they continue for six weeks, meanwhile this one of Eng­land's most distinguished authors—a great poet, essayist, short-story writer, and novelist—is giving to all the beautiful phases of Victorian literature a most attractive treatment. 
Thoughts of quiet, solitude—no ad­mixture of howls and jeers with the cacophony of scratchy phonographs greeted the newcomer. No longer do the stentorian efforts of the "head­line hunter" or the soothing strains of Coon-Sanders float out of every nook and comer. For the new rule is—an average of 90 or no radio. Those with 90 got it by studying plus a radio. Those below got it with a radio plus not studying. It's one-half of one, and one-half of the other. Portables screech but not nearly as loud as some radio equipment. 
Mission time. Freshmen get the attention first. They need it, it seems, and badly. As if that were unusual. 
"Frequent Confession," "Honesty" and ""Temperance" were the high spots of the beginners' instructions. Upperclassmen frowned upon the frosh as they arose for early Mass and instruction. Last week frosh re­turned frowns as upperclassmen raced to hear timely topics on "Attributes." 
A new Law building and Stadium bring many visitors who otherwise might not bestow such honor upon the campus. 
The oldest Catholic law school in America entered its new edifice; seniors followed with the opening of the school term, proudly displaying their canes. 
Cardinal Hayes of New York took part in the solemn act of dedicating the home of embryonic barristers. 
Not to be a whit outdone in the popular mode of dedication, Southern Methodist trampled the old sod in the new home so terrifyingly it began to send creeps and chills up the backs of the least susceptible. 
Shades of war-time were evident in the Mustangs' aerial attack. The Fighting Irish, well-informed of the Southerners' capabilities, were pre­pared with their own special bom­bardment. 
A new style of warfare this week. Navy sends its powerful dreadnaught —to be sunk, we hope. 
The ad lib sounds realistically accompanying the movies in Wash­ington Hall are, lo and behold, to echo no more from the darkened spaces. No longer will the clatter of horses' hoofs, shriek of the heroine, gasp of the desert straggler for aqua pura, be improvised. For "talkies" have come to the campus at last. 

"Caught Short" was the initial fea­ture. Very apropos to the finances of those who are fortunate enough to find their way to the book store. 
That the "sky-line of the institu­tion may assume diiferent proportions with the passing years, but Our Lady will remain immutable atop the Dome as a symbol of all that Notre Dame stands for," reminds us that the in­firmary was cluttered with patients with sore necks last week. 
Not because they were "keeping their eye on the ball" but because workmen were installing a new clock in the church tower. 
The golf course is, as ever, popular. Your old seat in Cartier Field is now part of the bridge leading across the aijproach to the new golf house. A winding stone walk takes one to the first tee, from which can be seen the most profound intricacies of Art West's eighteen-hole layout, 
"WSBT broadcasting! We're now going to let you listen to the Notre Dame cheering section." A minute, two, then three pass. Operator to announcer: "Say, there ain't nuthin' comin' tm' the monitor." Says an­nouncer: "Sorry folks, we expect that you didn't hear that. It was the Notre Dame silent cheering section." 
A great roar of approval went up from across the greensward as "Hello 
S. M. U." was formed with a be\'y of 9C0 cards, colored black on front and red on reverse side. 

The management of the Palace, not a bit dubious as to his later fate, offered a free show for all the first week. And gave orders for open house whenever Notre Dame wins. To show his sincerity he added, "And I hope you win them all." 
The Dome celebrates its t\venty­fifth year, we observe, with plans for a staff, composed of men with "the historical mind." 
The Reverend Peter Hebert, C.S.C, was instrumental in forming the new Classical Group with fifteen Latin students already on its rolls. 
It is a welcome and an instructive 
adjunct to the already existing Span­
ish Club and Le Cercle Francais. 
"Side shows or circus?" the Schol­actic queries editorially. "The game and the dance . . . private celebra­tions . . . they are only the side­

 By John A. Kiener, "32 
uQ 

shows to the circus—the true purpose of a university, education." 
Cameramen are safe in the new stadium; no longer will there be any fear of skidding off the top of the press-box as some of the more heart­less thought might happen. An auxil­iary platform has been constructed just under the roof of the box. 
And so to press! 

USHER'S CLUB ACTS AT NOTRE DAME GAME 
The officers of the newly organized Usher's Club, as elected Saturday, September 20, for the year 1930, are as follows: 
K. K. Rockne Honorary President Daniel Halpin President Raymond Hertel Vice-President John Saunders, Secretai-y-Treasurer Patrick Turnock Marshal. 
By virtue of the constitution of the club, the honorary presidency, the presidency and the secretary-treas­urer's office will be filled by the di­rector of athletics, the senior football j manager and his associate respective-j ly. The remaining ofiices are occupied ! by South Bend men, in no way con­nected with the University. 
The idea of having an Usher's Club at Notre Dame was originated by Daniel Halpin. He and Charles Weiss, junior football manager, have been working on the plan since last spring, but it was not until September 7 that the official announcement was made. 
The principal function of this or­ganization, will be for its members to serve as ushers at all home football games. Approximately 1,040 men have made application for member­ship. 
The appointments of head ushers, joint ushers etc., were made by the officers at a meeting held last Satur­day. At this meeting Mr. Rockne promised the club men that if they would give the patrons of the Fight­ing Irish their money's worth in the stands and treat them as football spectators should be treated, then he would give them their money's worth on the field. Coach Rockne concluded his brief address by promising the ushers a banquet at the end of the season. 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
FOOTBALL HEROES THAT HAVE DIED 
(Continued from Page 63) 

Notre Dame paid its last respect by the lowering of the flags to half mast and the parading of the student body. At the head of that long line marched the Notre Dame team, walking in football formation. In the backfield was a vacant place, where once the great Gipp, premier half-back was wont to appear. Wj-nne and Mohardt beside whom Gipp had won the su­preme laurels that can fall to an ath­lete, marched on alone. 
Then there was a pause, a hush, a soft whisper through the throngs, then a cry, "Good-bye George, Good­bye Pal," from thousands of throats. This was the touching scene as the train carried the beloved Gipp on its sad journey to Laurium. As long as the stars in the heavens cast their azure light upon the world, so long will the memory of Gipp, the gentle­man, the scholar, the perfect gridiron .warrior light up the hearts of every Notre Dame man and football lover, who paid a silent tribute by acclaim­
ing him as their greatest hero. 
Up in Laurium, Michigan, in Lake-
view cemetery, on December 20, 1920, 
during a blizzard, .the football men 
beside whom developed the monarch 
of the gridiron, walked Coughlin, 
Brandy, Larson, "Hunk" Anderson, 
Wilcox, carrying, with sad hearts, 
their pal to his final resting place. 
Here at Notre Dame as well as at 
other Universities and colleges it 
would seem quite fitting to pay trib­
ute or to commemorate our gridiron 
heroes who have died. We think that 
it would be a monument of splendid 
worth to see at the initial game of 
every season the entire attendance 
stand preceding the kickoff, uncover, 
and watch the flag being lowered to 
half mast, listening to the band as it 
plays that old familiar tune, ".\uld 
Lang Syne,"— 
"Should auld acquaintance be forgot. 
And never brought to mind ? 
Should auld acquaintance be forgot, 
.\nd days of auld lang syne?" 
All the while, thinking rythmically 
0" 
&itsl{cs io rongraJxilatc 
with each touching reverberation, of those great heroes like Stahl of Illinois who thrilled many a heart by his dextrous ability to score touch­downs from the kickofr. Or the lov­able Dr. Kendrick of Pittsburgh who not only exhausted most of his efforts to make the gridiron a rectangle of fame but relinquished his life to make humanity cleaner and better. Michie of the Army, Bagley of the Navy, Captain Murphy, ICirk, Mclnery all of Notre Dame, gave their lives in defense of their country. Von Gam­mon of Georgia gave his life on the very field where he gained his glory. Cozens of Pennsylvania died scoring his final run. Then the greatest hero of them all, Gipp, answered the call in 1920. Making perfect the .4.11­American of the dead. Each of them played to the zenith of his ability. 
We owe them something; it now^ re­mains with us to answer them. Shall we forget? 
SOPHOMORE COTILLION TO BE HELD WEEK-END OF DRAKE GAME 
The Sophomore Cotillion will be presented on the night of November 14, 1930, in the Palais Royale ball­room. The dance is to be on the night preceding the Drake - Notre Dame football game to be played in the Notre Dame stadium. 
James B. Clark, general chairman for the Cotillion, and Edward W. Dailey, president of the sophomore class, concluded arrangements with the manager of the Palais Royale Wednesday night, after weeks of en-
IMPORTANT! 

This Stadium issue deals pri­marily with what was—before Oct. 11. Therefore, the maga­zine is on the press too soon to carry details of the actual Dedi­cation program. These will ap­pear next month. 
deavor to secure a suitable place for the only formal dance sponsored by the second year men. 
Definite arrangements for a special "Cotillion" section in the stadium for the football game have been com­pleted, and other plans which the men in charge are not ready to release at this time have been formulated. 
Each issue of the SCHOLASTIC will carry announcements by the commit­tee in charge. A publicity campaign, centering around the orchestra, which according to advance notices prom­ises to be one of the most popular ever to have played for a sophomore dance, will start in the immediate fu­ture. 
The girls of St. Mary's wiU" at­tend the formal dance, as will many guests from other places. Activities, to more than occupy the sophomores' and their guests' time are being ar­ranged for. 
DEDICATION ADDRESS FOR NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
(Continued from Paire 59) 

napolis. Notre Dame men and Notre Dame's friends are happy that the Navy is our friendly opponent at the dedication of this stadium. Because of the obvious importance of this game, the Navy will ever hold a unique place in the athletic traditions of Notre Dame. 
Finally, to yonder Flag, inspiring symbol of our Nation's glory, we of Notre Dame offer this statement: 
Beloved Flag: With your bars of white through your lanes of red; With your constant stars in their field of blue; We pledge you'that never a thought shall dissever Our constant allegiance to Country— and You. 
• •laMiDiiiiiiiiitiiiitiititiiiiMiitMiiittiatiiiiiii • lltDMIIttltUI B 
itjjon tire tmttplEttoit of tl|c ^oirc ^mne ^tabtmw 
Q.. 
iiiiiiiii I tiiiii 
"S 
ATHLETICS; 
..Q 

Notre Dame Wins Thriller From S. M. U., 20-14 
Meeting the greatest passing attack ever exhibited at Notre Dame with the same sort of tactics, the Irish squad turned back the threat of Southern Methodist in the last three minutes of play and scored a 20-14 victory in the opening game in the new Stadium Saturday, Oct. 4. 
It was a lucky break in almost the last march down the field that gave Notre Dame its chance for victory. A long pass for 35 yards from Schwartz to Kosky was missed by the Notre Dame end because of inter­ference by Kattman, Southern Meth­odist safety man. Officials ruled the pass good and Notre Dame gained the ball on the four-yard line. 
Then behind perfect interference, Marchy Schwartz ploughed through the line for the remaining distance and the touchdown that gave victory to Notre Dame. 

Big Joe Savoldi gave the most colorful performance of the day when he caught the Southern Methodist Idckoff in the first quarter, fumbled it a second, picked it up again, and with his teammates taking out opponents in a brilliant exhibition of interfer­ence, raced 90 yards down the field for a touchdown. Welby Mason, speedy right half for Southern Meth­odist, made a great effort to catch him, following a few yards in the rear from the 50-yard line, but the big fullback outdistanced him in the race. 
Southern Methodist lost little time as the game opened in making a touchdown, after Long, Mustang end, intercepted a pass on his own 35-yard line and took it 10 yards. An oiT­side penalty cost Notre Dame, and then another one of those beautiful floaters from Mason to Kattman placed the ball on the Notre Dame two yard line. But for a smashing tackle by Savoldi, it would have been a touchdown. But Hopper crashed the left side of the line on the next play for the touchdown. 
Coach Eockne opened the game with his shock troops, and there was little to justify the name, for they per­formed in many instances better than the seasoned men on the first squad. The ground gaining of Savoldi was the heartening part of the Notre Dame play in the first quarter against 
a barrage of passes that kept the ball 

constantly in the air. 
There was no question that Notre 

Dame was fighting desperately from 
the start of the second quarter. 
Eockne sent in his seasoned men to 
stem the tide that seemed about to 
overwhelm the Irish squad. Yet, with 
the exception of occasional flashes, 
the play of Eockne's men was just 
what he called it during practice—the 
performance of an unseasoned group 
of players. 
Carideo showed one of those rare bursts of speed and running when he placed the ball within scoring distance for Notre Dame's' second touchdown. A penalty had shoved Southern Methodist back to its two-yard line and Kattman punted from the goal line. 
The ball sailed 50 yards and Cari­deo took it at full speed on his op­ponents' forty-two yard line. Grasp­ing Southern Methodist tacklers slipped oif him, others were stopped by his interference and the ball came to rest on the eleven yard line. Two plays, a pass, Schwartz to Mullins, and Schwartz around right end gave the touchdown. 
The crowd of 25,000 saw more for­ward passes in one game than ever were hurled on a field at Notre Dame. While the visitors sent a total of 34 passes, many of them were incom­plete, but on the majority of the suc­cessful tries the Mustangs profited by long gains. 
To Marchy Schwartz goes a lot of the credit for the winning touchdown and throughout the game the flashy halfback performed in a style to put fight into the Notre Dame team. They gave Schwartz the interference on many plays that opened holes through the line, and with his pivoting, he eluded tacklers as if they weren't there. And to Frank Carideo goes the credit for giving Schwartz the ball on the scoring plays. 
They couldn't stop Big Joe on his long chase down the field, nor on many other gains. And the work of Brill and Koken was responsible for gains while Tommy Yarr covered himself with glory in his work against passes. 
There were times when the Notre Dame squad was not the national championship repeater, for on many passes the receiver was caught nap­ping and the ball had to go back. On another pass, this time a South­ern Methodist throw, the man taking the ball snatched it while completely hemmed in and then eluded two men who were within arm's length. 
Disaster struck Southern Methodist in the fourth quarter when Welby Mason was carried from the field with the ligaments torn in his right knee after a pile up. While this was the only serious injury in the game, Notre Dame saw Harriss and Donag­hue leave for the same reason, while Carideo was hurt but remained in the game. 
(News-Times account.) 
Lineup and summary: 

NOTRE DAME. 20 SOUTH. IIETII.. I-l Host LE Koontz HofTman LT Tate Harris LG Neeley Butler C Powell Terlaak EG Reilly SrcManmon RT Skeeters Vlk RE LonR Jaskwich QB Kattman Koken LH Mason O'Connor RH Hopper Savoldi FB SprajTue 
Score by quarters: 

Notre Dame 7 7 0 6—20 
Southern Methodist ,... 7 7 0 0—14 
Touchdowns—Savoldi, Schwartz (2). Hop­per. Koontz. 
Points after touchdown—LonR (2). Jask­wich, Carideo (all place kicks). 
Substitutions—Notre Dame: Culver for HofT­man, Kosky for Host. Kassis for Harris, Yarr for Butler, MetzKer for Terlaak. DonoKhue for McManmon, Conley for Vlk, Carideo for Jask­wich, Schwartz for Koken. Mullins for Savoldi. Brill for O'Connor, Pierce for Kassis, Kurth for DonoKhuc, Bailie for Kosky, Kaplan for Brill, Howard for Mullins, Mahoney for Con­ley. Kersjes for Metzirer, J. O'Brien for Host, McManmon for Kurth, Terlaak for MetzKcr. 
Southern Methodist: Delcambre for IXjwell, "Tarrance for Reilly. Butler for Tate. John­son for Mason, Hatla for Necley, Hamiter for Mason. Lanham for Long, Adklson for Koontz, Gilbert for Johnson. 
Referee—Quisley (St. Mary's). Umpire— Schommer (Chica};o). Head linesman—^Wyatt (Missouri). Field judire—Garrity (Texas). 
October, 19S0 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
GOLF COURSE IMPROVED GREATLY OVER SUMMER 
students returning for the fall term were pleasantly surprised to discover that the William J. Burke University golf course, which was in a crude state last spring and barely playable a year ago, had been developed into a first class course during the summer. That the student golfers ap­preciate this is proved by the fact that the student-play for the first week of the present term exceeded half of the total play for the whole of the 1929 fall term. 
Arthur West, head of the Uni­versity golf course, announced today that he had renewed his contract with the University for another year. Along with his present plans for im­provement of the golf course will be some unique contests for the students. 
When school closed in the spring the greens were in very poor shape. In many of them there were spots ranging up to a foot in diameter. The turf was uneven, spotted with clover and weeds; the greens so hard that it was next to impossible to pitch to them. Now, thanks to successive top dressings with rich black dirt hauled in from the woods and to numerous applications of fertilizer, the putting surfaces are of uniform texture, and so soft that pitched balls "bite" and hold as they should. Many players pronounce the greens better than any they played during the summer. 
In addition to course improvements the golf house, which was built en­tirely of old lumber from the dis­mantled football stadium, has been painted an attractive green and white combination; The approach to the golf house is also vastly improved, consisting of a bridge leading across the gully at the gate and connecting 
llltlMIIIIIIIKIIXIIIMIIMIIMII 1)111 Illllll 

0.. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
QM 
BUFFALO Dear Jim: We have to have the dope in for this issue. News there is always in Buffalo even if we have to make it. We did have the dinner dance out on the Lake shore and think of it . . . tiventy tired business men came and brought the rest of the family. A good time was had by all even the wrestlers. I understand that Hank Bums is some athlete even on the 
with a winding stone walk to the golf house. 
Plan Tournaments 

Plans for fall tournament play are developing and it is planned to have several competitions before snow falls. One of these is to be the "Notre Dame Open" in which all the students may participate. The winner will be declared the University Champion for the year. This is to be medal play over 72 holes. In addition to this event there are plans for a Freshman Tournament. Notices will be posted at the golf house and printed in the SCHOLASTIC. 
University golfers are already look­ing forward to the next intercollegi­ate championship to be held next spring in Chicago, and while Notre Dame's representatives, particularly Larry MoUer, did surprisingly well last spring at Pittsburgh there is con­fidence that even a better showing will be made next year. In team play at the tourney, Notre Dame finished fourth with a score of 767, one point less than the University of Illinois, who won the Big Ten Conference golf title. 
In indiWdual play, Larry Moller 
was runner up in the tournament be­
ing elected president of the Intercol­
legiate Golf Association. This is an 
honor for Notre Dame of which every 
student and faculty member may take 
just pride. 
The golf team has returned to school without losing a man; and while this is to be the last year of competition for most of the present team the University is fortunate in enrolling some first class golfing freshmen who show promise of carry­ing on and furthering the standard set by the present team. 
 •••• IIIIDMtllttMltlllllllMI IIIIIIIIIH llllllllltilll •••••iiiaiitdiii 
dance floor. Our beloved President . . . Eddie Lutz was there without a doubt .. . he is our truly dyed in the wool social lion. When you come to Buffalo see ED. 
Monday, Sept. 29, we had a real constructive meeting. Great were the things that were accomplished at Gor­don Bennett's Lake Shore Home. The Boys passed around their cards, com­pared them, stewed over them, and at last decided that some few should re-
BLUE CIRCLE TO DIRECT STUDENT CHEERING 
Committees have been appointed to handle the pep meetings to be held on the campus before the games. Flans made at the meeting Tuesday night call for a session in the gym before the Navy game, for which special decorations will be provided. There will be individual hall decorations and signs; competition among the halls is expected to be keen, since a cup has been offered by the S. A. C. for the best decorated hall. 
The Blue Circle, primarily a stu­dent's service organization, is provid­ing for out-of-town visitors on game days a number of information booths, placed in the lobbies of the hotels, and in prominent buildings in town. The booths will be in charge of members of the Blue Circle, and will dispense information from nine o'clock until noon on game days and the days be­fore. 
Plans made at the last meeting of the Blue Circle have materialized, and arrangements for the silent cheering at the games and for pep meetings before them have been com­pleted, as announced by Chairman Ed Madden at the last regular meeting of September 30. 
The quota for the silent cheering section has been easily filled, and the tickets for the students in the section are now being distributed by the row captains, w^ho are to be in charge of instruction for handling the cards at the games. Ed Madden has an­nounced a practice session, to be held today in the stadium at 5 o'clock. It is absolutely necessary that everyone connected in any way with the cheer­ing section be there, for it will be the only practice before the first game on October 4, and the only one of the year. 
iiiitiiiii 
••••a 
..ig 

ceive remuneration for their evening work. Hurrah, I was one. The meet­ing waxed long and furious .. . Ed Banks stood up for his rights but lost. Pinky Cotter is now known by his hosts of friends as Truly Warner Cot­ter. Everett Laundry, '27, is press agent and advance man for a national cooking school, he happened to be in town so along he came and was as free with his advice as any loyal Notre Dame man should be. We 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
missed our good friend Al Boehm but 
Al is on the up and up. Another pro­
motion and Al will be the whole works 
at Worthington Pump. 
George Doyle, '30, is working for 
the N. Y. Telephone Co. Bob Moore 
is helping out Tom Kenny get Henry 
Ford all set up in his new plant here. 
They both are with the Great Lakes 
Dredge and Dock Co. I do not know-
just what "Marty" Travers and "Tru­
ly Warner" Cotter are doing but they 
sure look prosperous. 
Lunch was ser\-ed during the eve­ning and did the boys eat. Stan Drumsta got so excited when he saw hot apple pie that he swallowed his Adam's apple and nearly choked. Marty Ryan ate most of the Limber­ger cheese .. . a swell Irishman don't you think. 
Another meeting in two weeks and 
I am sure that we will have more 
news soon. 
Paul Hoeffler 
DISTRICT OF COLUaiBIA 
We have inaugurated a system of monthly luncheons to be held the last Wednesday in each month at the local University Club. The first fall session took place recently when we had as guests of honor Dutch Bergman and his assistant coaches at Catholic Uni­versity. Dutch is well satisfied, al­though he has a hard year ahead, having fallen heir to a very tough schedule and a very much depleted team due to graduations. 
Tom Mills was also the guest of the club some months ago when he first arrived. He was unable to be with us for the last luncheon as he was out in Maryland with the Georgetown team. He and the boys with him are well and regular boosters for the local outfit, which, as you may have heard, is a small but valiant band of wilful men. At the last luncheon those present included Father Robinson, Dr. Flynn, Fred Wile, Bill Gahin, Michael Ricks, John CuUen, and Earl Doyle. 
We expect to make a showing at the Pennsylvania game, and the local enthusiasm seems to be at high tide ever since people around here were initiated into the mysteries of par-ex­cellence football, as shown by the Rockmen both at Baltimore against the Navy, and at New York against the Army in past years. 
Sincerely, 
JAMES D. HAYES; 
CHICAGO 
the Notre Dame Club of Chicago is planning a major operation of con­siderable significance for the week­end of the Army game. They plan to sever their "Siamese twins", the an­nual dinner and dance which has sym­bolized for some seven hundred alum­ni in Chicago their elation on "big game" occasions. Instead, this year will see an informal stag dinner on Friday night, November 28, and a formal dance on Saturday night, November 29. 
The dinner will be held either at the University Club, Lake Shore Ath­letic Club, or Belden-Strafford Hotel. The immediate excuse for the aflFair, if you insist that one be produced, is to celebrate eighteen years of cordial athletic relations between Army and Notre Dame, and to express the hope that equally lengthy and pleasant relations may accumulate with our opponents this season. So that the latter wish will not be wasted on emptj' air, it is planned that either the coach or athletic director of each of the 1930 opponents as well as a table full of Chicago alumni of those nine colleges will be present to hear and echo the desire. Notre Dame will be represented by Reverend Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, and Knute Rockne, a football coach. The Army will have at the speakers' table Major-General William R. Smith, Commandant of the Academy; Major 
P. B. Fleming, Graduate Manager of Athletics; and Major R. I. Sasse, the cadets' new football coach. Also at the speakers' table will be Gi-antland Rice, Christy Walsh, Warren Brown, Arch Ward and Jimmy Corcoran. The toastmaster will be a prominent Notre Dame alumnus. The room will be profusely decorated and col­legiate musicians will emit the airs of the interested colleges. 
Attendance is limited to six hun­dred and all reservations must be en­dorsed by a member of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. It is hoped that at least fifty alumni from out­side of Chicago will attend. 
A committee of fifteen, graduates, ranging from 1902 to 1930, are in charge, with Edward W. Gould, '23, acting as chairman. 

The formal dance on Saturday night after the game will be at the Balloon and Gold Rooms of the Con­gress Hotel and will run from 10:00 
p. m. until an unmentionable hour. Tommy Gerun and his Californians will blare forth in the Balloon room and an orchestra of national fame, the name of wiiich is withheld for reasons best known to the committee, will play in the Gold room. It is hoped that members of the Army football squad, in their dress uni­forms, will attend and lend an extra touch of color. 
The sum of four dollars will reserve a place at table for yourself and lady. All reservations must be made in advance and as only twelve hun­dred persons can be accommodated it is a foregone conclusion that it will be a "sell-out" and even visiting alumni and old Sorin Hall bunk-mates cannot be admitted thereafter. A word to the wise is sufficient. 
Plan now to bring your tuxedo to Chicago and reserve early for both the Friday night informal dinner and the Saturday night formal dance. Richard L. Halpin, '27, is in charge of the dance and is assisted by an able committee of post-war graduates. 
For further information write 

James Ronan, Secretary, 64 W. Ran­
dolph street, Chicago, 111. 
A large crowd turned out for the 

luncheon meeting of Sept. 26. Tick­
ets for the awarding of the Club box 
seats to the five Notre Dame games 
and the Army and Northwestern 
games were drawn by Jack Chevigny, 
Archie Ward and Jim Armstrong as 
follows: Southern Methodist, Frank 
Dowd; Navy, C. C. Mitchell; Carnegie 
Tech, J. O'C. Fitzgerald; Drake, John 
W. Costello (almost a riot when John's name was drawn — he was chairman of the committee — but it was quelled in spite of President Fitzsimmons); Indiana, Dr. W. J. Corcoran; Northwestern, C. A. Pa­quette; and Army, Leo Stum. 
The Club was well represented at the S. M. U. game. 
CLEVELAND 

Dear Jim: 
This will probably just get under 

the wire, as usual. 
There is the usual excitement among the members of the Cleveland Club just previous to the football sea­son. Our weekly luncheons have been transferred to the HoUenden Hotel and the boys are turning out in better numbers. Arrangements have been completed for three football excursions by the Cleveland Club. 
The Navy game—there will be a special Pullman train leaving here Friday midnight, October 10, and re­turning Saturday midnight over the New York Central line. There prob­ably will be about one hundred and fifty fellows on that train, who are eager to see the new stadium and to witness the dedication services. 
The Pitt game—there will be four trains leaving Cleveland for Pitts­burgh on Saturday morning and re­turning Saturday midnight, October 
25. These trains will accommodate about two thousand Notre Dame boosters. Both the Erie and Penn­sylvania railroads have secured foot­ball tickets from the Pitt authorities and are taking care of our members in royal style. The Pittsburgh Notre Dame Club are giving a dinner-dance after the Pitt game at the Fort Pitt Hotel, to which all Notre Dame men are invited. 
The Army game—There will be a special train for the Army game too. Both the New York Central and the Nickel Plate have football tickets available in conjunction with railroad tickets and there will be at least five hundred fellows making the trip to Chicago. 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Cleveland Club is arranging a series of Saturday afternoon bridge parties at which they will give a radio report of the various Notre Dame games on each successive after­noon. 
FRED JOYCE. 

FORT WAYNE CLUB Dear Jim: I'm fearful that anyone writing you during a football season on matters pertaining to anything except grid­iron affairs is as much out of step as someone who stops you five minutes before a game and wants to talk about the weather, however—. The present officers are: President, Ed­ward T. Gilmartin; Vice-president, Harry G. Hogan; Treasurer, F. Leslie Logan; Secretary, CliiTord B. Ward and non-office-holding governor, Ed­niond Bresnahan. Please make neces­sar>' revision on the ALUMNUS mag­
azine cover so that all present officers may bask in the glory which is theirs. Unfortunately our alumni club has been functioning recently like a dis­abled coffee-grinder but we hope as alumni secretaries must always hope, that more and more activities will soon blossom forth into sweet frui­tion. Why newspaper reporters are ever picked to be secretaries is be­yond me. Our time seems to belong to the world at large and just when personal plans, carefully laid, are to be executed old News stalks in to up­set the apple-cart. Like firemen and policemen, we're at the mercy of 
everything.. I had the good fortune recently to run across the esteemed Fathers Cav­anaugh and Bums, who were walking down our streets apparently seeing whether buildings had changed since their last visit. The beneficial effect of just seeing their faces should war­rant the alumni in undertaking to send them about wherever alumni re­side. They recall happy memories like a perusal of vacation snap-shots on a cold wnter day. Despite my proximity to South Bend, I haven't been there for four or five years, which proves that I either have been busy or broke or perhaps both. I hope, however, to get up this fall or at least sometime during the years intervening the present and dotage. Cliff Ward. 
PHILADELPHI.A. 

Notre Dame men in Philadelphia haven't been doing much. It now de­velops that they have been saving their strength. The boys have come out with the announcement of a big dance in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel the night of the Pennsylvania-Notre Dame game, Nov. S. The Ball Room, the Clover Room and the Blue Room have been reserved. A noted orches­tra will furnish the rhythm and danc­ing \\i\\ continue after midnight, de­spite Philadelphia's well-known blue laws, through arrangements ^vith the authorities. The affair will be in­formal. 
Rock has consented to speak at the dance. The proceeds are to go to the Philadelphia Club's Scholarship Fund. With all. the glamour the committee has arranged, the price announced is only three dollars a couple. Notre Dame headquarters will be at the Bellevue the day of the game and the Club is planning to make things pleasant for the hundreds of alumni expected there for the only game on the Eastern seaboard. 
President Clarence James, and Messrs. Neeson, Kasper, Desch, Dougherty, Bailey and Kelly are the efficient committee in charge. 
INDIANAPOLIS Dear Jim: 
The Notre Dame Club of Indian­apolis is holding regular monthly luncheons on the second Wednesday of the month at 12:15 at the In­dianapolis Athletic Club. 
The new officers of the club are: Joseph McNamara, 231 Wisconsin street, president; Robert Gavin, 446 Goodlet street, vice-president; Michael 

B. Reddington, 216 Indiana Trust Building, treasurer, and Walter W. Houppert, 342 N. Arsenal avenue, secretary. 
Our annual golf tournament was held on July 24 at the Speedway Golf Club. The trophy and prizes were awarded as follows: First prize, a loving cup, to "Jack" Welch, '17; other prizes were awarded to "Al" Feeney, '13, "Bob" Kirby, '28, George Smith, Hugh McGowan, Harry Scott, Arnold Williams, and myself. John 
A. Davis, '29, was chairman of the ai-rangements committee. On Septem­ber 10 our annual Chicken Dinner party was held at Page's. 
Here's a little news about some of the members of the club: Frank Mc­Carthy, '24, is now city passenger agent of the Big Four railroad; Jo­seph Sexton, '26, Michael B. Redding­ton, '26, Leo O'Connor and Thomas O'Connor, and John McShane, '15, are practicing law; James E. Deery, '10, is now city attorney; John E. Loftus, '27, is claim attorney for the city of Indianapolis, and Joseph Mc­Namara, '29, is auditor of the board of works of the city of Indianapolis. John Mahoney, '29, Robert Gavin, '27, and William Konop, '30, are with the Indiana Bell Telephone Company; J. Corbin Patrick, '26, is with the In­dianapolis Star and is the radio columnist over WFBM; "Joe" Har­mon, '25, was in town during the summer but returned a few weeks ago to St. Xavier's in Louisville, Ky., 
where he resumed coaching the foot­ball team; Charles Riley, '27, is now assistant coach with Thomas Lieb at Loyola University in California; George Sadlier, '25, conducts a real estate business; Robert Worth, '25, has a chain of dry cleaning establish­ments; George Bischoff, '25, Is still with the Travelers Insurance Com­pany; Norbert "Duke" Clancy, '25, recently returned to Indianapolis from Detroit; James "Judge" Collins, '25, is still a traveling salesman; "Bob" Kirby is a funeral director; Maurice McNulty, '25, is trust officer for the Fidelity Trust Company; J. Leroy Keach, William Mooney and Thomas Jones are still in their same lines of business; Leo J. Welch is now city councilman; John A. Davis, '29, is with the Penn Mutual Life Insur­ance Company; Edward A. Frazier, '25, is with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, and John Rocap is in his father's law office. 
Several dances and other social affairs are being planned by the club for the winter season, the dates and details of which will be announced later. 
WALTER HOUPPERT. 

JOLIET CLUB Dear Mr. Armstrong: The place and time of monthly meetings are: Woodfuff Hotel the first Tuesday of each month. The names and addresses of the club officers are: Clarence W. Wilhelmi, '18, Presi­dent, 909 Oneida Street. Patrick A. McDonnell, '95, Vice-President, 131 Willow Avenue. Joseph L. Adler, '24, Treasurer, 104 Whittier Avenue. John P. Berscheid, '29, Secretary, 904 Mason Avenue. During the summer the Club has had its regular meetings and a few other gatherings. An outing was held near Joliet and was well attended by the members and alumni. This event was voted a success. A farewell dinner was given at the Woodruff Hotel in honor of Brother Lawrence Joseph, Director of the De la Salle High School who has been transferred to Kansas City, Kansas. On September 9, the Clnb enter­tained the students who are attend­ing the University and those who in­tended attending this year. About the only formal plan for the rest of the year is that of a dance to be held during the Christmas holidays. John P. Berscheid. 
KANSAS CITY 

Dear Jim: 
Am listing below the activities of some of the members of the Kansas Clty-Notre Dame Qub. 
Doctor Nigro, our President, is the 

busiest man in Kansas Cit}% active 
first in industrial surgery, as partner 
in one of the largest Clinics in the 
old town. One of the Democratic 
leaders of the City, closely allied with 
all sporting events in this vicinit}', 
and at present enjoying the World 
series in St. Louis. 
Conrad Mann, our honorary Presi­dent is President of the Chamber of Commerce, Financial advisor to the Eagles, and financially interested in various extensive projects in K. C. 
Henry Burdick, our genial Vice-President is Manager of Anheiser-Busch Branch in towTi. 
Joseph Stewart, Lawyer is Assist-and General Counsel of the Kansas City Life Insurance Company. He is an expert bowler, and shoots in the early eighties in golf. Also he has recently become the father of a Junior who will be duly registered at the old Alma Mater. 
Maurice Carroll, your hard working Secretarj-, is having a verj' busy year in the architectural business. Now completing the Catholic Seminary here for Bishop Lillis, who is a close friend of Notre Dame. 
Edward McGrath, formerly of Louisville, is now Secretary to the Director of the Board of Public Works. 
Martin Crowe, Jr., is President of the Crowe Bakery. Thomas V. Holland is Judge of the Municipal Court of Kansas City. Fred Wirthman is ^-ice-President of the Geo. J. Wirthman Drug Co. George Eeinhardt is associated in practice of Law with his father. 
William Purcell is President of the Frank Purcell Lumber Co. Joseph Purcell is Vice-President of the same Company. 
Eugene VandenBoom is Vice-Presi­dent of the J. H. VandenBoom Fur­niture Company. 
Otto Schmid is practicing law in the Keith and Perry Bldg. 
Joseph Shaughnessy is practicing architecture, and has been quite suc­cessful since he started in practice for himself. 
Ray Conrad is associated with the architectural firm of C. A. Smith. 
Henry J. Massman is associated in the construction business with his father. He has recently announced his engagement of marriage. 
Walter J. Kennedy has not recov­ered from a serious accident received some months ago, and is at home con­valescing. 
Anthony Fasenmeyer is President of the K. C. Used Car Exchange, and also the father of five children. 
Paul Duify is Editor of Tavern Talk, a hotel publication. 
The social meetings of the club have been discontinued for the summer weather, and will reopen -with a wel­
come party the latter part of this month. Will send you details. Muarice Carroll, Secretary 
LOUISL-VNA-MISSISSIPPI 

Down on the levees everything has been suspended to watch Marchmont Schwartz perform during the current season. From the S. M. U^. game it looks as though the rest of the coun­try will follow suit. 
NEW YORK 

Dear Jim: You of course know we entertained Rockne at the Commodore just before school opened and we had a very big crowd. He spoke of the development of the University, its buildings, and new faculty. He told us of the beau­tiful Stadium at Notre Dame, which has aroused in us all a desire to see it baptized by fire. The Board of Governors of the Club has aranged a very attractive pro­gram for the fall and coming year. John Kenney, who is chairman of our entertainment committee has ar­ranged with Mr. Mahoney who we all know as the master football micro­phone specialist who so excellently broadcasted the Notre Dame-Navy game at Baltimore last year, who is also secretary of the Army Alumni Association to hear the returns of the Army-Notre Dame game together \vith alumni of both schools at some large hotel to be selected. This will bind the very close relationships which we hold with the Army. We in New York admire the Army and wish them well, except against us. Army and Notre Dame are old friends and if we New Yorkers can cordially fraternize ^vith our Army friends on that day we will be satisfied that we have achieved for Notre Dame a high regard for her from these old and new soldiers. 
October 1 we had a wonderful get-together with a steak dinner at our old New York stand, the Fraternity Club. We had a number of men present, and it was great to see so many of the old-timers there. Hugh O'Donnell, our worthy President, pre­sided. Our friend Ambrose O'Connell gave a beautiful talk. "Dike" Scan-Ion sang, and did he sing. "Dike" played on so many teams at Notre Dame that they ran out of teams for him to play on. Tom Murphy, our most loyal of the loyalists said a few words. Johnnie Balfe, our old presi­dent, spoke, as did Charlie Donahue, Franklyn Doan, Jack Adams, our be­loved friend Mayor William Walsh of Yonkers, who never misses a Notre Dame party. He has three sons who will some day go to Notre Dame. Abe Zoss, whom most of us knew, who grew up on the Notre Dame campus was there and told us about the team and the college. The Secretary spoke and outlined plans for the special trains to the Navy game and the Pennsyl­vania game. It was a happy gather­ing. John Kenny, who was responsible for the party, presented Leon Ma­guire, one of our loyal members, who performer card tricks which had us all mystified. Si Flanagan, our emi­nent attorney, spoke briefly. Dan Cunningham told stories—^then he sat down. 
On Oct.. 23rd we are having a large Club meeting for all the members and we expect a large turnout. Final de­tails for the Pennsylvania game will be announced. We certainly \vill have a great crowd coming down to see the team. Possibly over 5,000. Wash­ington will send a delegation of 2,000. 
The Club wishes to extend to Father O'Donnell, Knute Rockne and the Fighting Irish their best wishes for a successful season; to wish this team to presen'e the sacred memories of 
•the sod of Cartier Field on her new-Stadium; but win or lose, do it like Notre Dame men, credit to God, to the college, and to the master, Rockne. Bonne chance, Notre Dame. 
Eddie Byrne, Sec'y. 
NEW JERSEY 

Dear Jim: Our first meeting of the year, which was in the form of a banquet to the freshmen from New Jersey entering the University this fall, w-as held at the New-ark A. C. on Sept S. Seventy-five attended, the distribution being pretty well along the fifty-fifty basis, for fully half w-ere freshmen making their first N. D. contact. 
Father Herman Storck, the Jesuit retreat master from Loyola, w-as with us and gave a very inspiring talk both for the benefit of the boys just start­ing their college careers and implor­ing the grads to spend the week-end with him on Notre Dame's retreat. Harry Stuhldreher came up from Villa Nova and proved himself as adept as an after-dinner speaker as he was football player and coach. Hugh O'Donnell, the eternal Notre Dame man, came over from the big city and was very entertaining as is his habit when at any N. D. gathering. 
The week-end of the 12th found forty boys from the Club treking to Morristowm where the Loyola House of Retreat is located. Father Storck welcomed them and acted as their host both spiritually and physically for three days. This was the third annual journey to the retreat house and I believe the Jersey Club has set a mark for other Clubs to shoot at. 
We had another gathering the eve­ning of the 22nd, but this was a strictly business meeting and the topic of the evening was football. We are disposing of a box for the Penn 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
pjttmiiiiiiii 
IIIDHIIIIItMiMiiKMI* Q 

BUILDERS of NOTRE DAME'S MAJESTIC NEW STADIUM 
We are proud to have been able to construct 
this monument to the traditions of athletics at 
Notre Dame, her football teams and coaches. 
RALPH SOLLITT & SONS 
CHICAGO and SOUTH BEND 
lUiatllllllllllllllMllillKll .Q 

Q.... 
game in a way expected to bolster the finances of the Club. Joe Nult\% Sec'y. 
SYRACUSE, N. Y. 
At the regular luncheon meeting 
held Sept. 10, 1930, Mr. Jacob E. 
Eckel, '16, 121 Erie St., Syracuse, was 
unanimously elected Secretarj' of the 
S^Tacuse Club. 
The golf tournament to play off the previous tie scores was to be held Oct. 1, the course to be decided upon by the contesting players. Due to the congestion of activities during the Christmas holidays no dance is planned at that time. A. dance is now in mind for March 17, 1931. Last year Auburn had a Notre Dame dance during the holidays and if again held this year some attendance from SjTa­cuse may be expetced. 
E. C. Schonlau, Pres. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

Officers and members of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley are pacing the streets of South Bend, Mishawaka, Niles, etc., with the wor­ried look of men who have never known the light-hearted Club life these columns used to paint. 
Housing ten thousand people is no light job. But that is what the Club headquarters, 212 Oliver Hotel, ac­complished. The Club received the co­operation of the Valley and cixic or­ganizations to a most encouraging de­gree. Members met to discuss plans on Sept. 24. Six captains were se­lected to head the investigation of the rooms listed. Harry Richwine, Har­old Weber, Walter Rauh, L. A. Kolu­pa, W. N. Bergan and W. J. Andres were the captains appointed and the speed and efficiency with which their teams investigated the thousands of rooms listed was unbelievable. 
The Club, through J. H. B. Mc­Carthy, secretary, aramged the of­
E]...., 
B ,. 
BiHlis 

The Class of 1905 is apparently determined that its own lack of nu­merical strength of that year will not be visited upon its descendants. WIL­LLA.M J. JAMIESON and DANIEL 
J. O'CONNOR, both of Chicago are pointing with pride to their respective ninth additions, arrivals since the last ALUMNUS. Jamieson DC is a boy, while O'Connor IX gives the neigh­boring Sisters a break. This competi­ficial Pre-Dedication dance for the night of Oct. 9 in the K. of C. Ball­room. 
Already the rumblings of the giant annual civic testimonial banquet are heard. President Shively and his staff are busy men this fall. Chairman Bob Mciuliffe of the reception com­mittee for the Dedication week-end has been among the livest of the live wires. Bob has a committee of G7 prominent South Benders prepared to furnish pomp and circumstance for the incoming celebrities. 
The water that flows through the 

St. Joe is hot as it winds its northern 
way toward the lake. 
TWIN CITIES "Twin Cities—Notre Dame-Army special." The Twin Cities Notre Dame Club of Minnesota will run a de luxe Pull­man special to the Notre Dame-Army game. The party will leave Minne­apolis on Friday evening, November 28, and dinner will be served aboard. The train will carry an amusement, a club, and an observation car. Mid­night supper will be a feature. After breakfast, prior to arrival in Chicago, the group will be on their own until evening. The train will be held for the members so as to eliminate bag­gage difficulties and will be ready for occupancy after 9:00 p. m., though it will not leave Chicago until 3:00 a. 
m. Sunday, thus allowing all of Satur­day evening in that city. 
Breakfast and lunch will be served enroute home and a special stop will be provided for Mass on Sunday morning. 
The trip will be on an all-expense basis and will maintain the standards of the local club. The Hennepin Travel Bureau will be in charge of details. P. W. O'Grady, of the class of '03, is executive secretary of this travel_ organization. 
LOUIS P. CHUTE. 

:THE ALUMNI 
tion, or agreement, is, if heredity can be trusted, peopling these United States with some wonderful friends of Holy Cross. 
Sept. 20 marked the arrival of HOLLY GRINAGER, JR. in the north country. Eight pounds weighing in at the start. Holly, Sr., '23, was close on the heels of younger brother Stan­ley, '28, who supplied a beautiful cousin in advance. 
FORREST "FOD" COTTON is a proud father of a four-months son. Fod's pride wasn't to reach the Sep­
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Dear Jim: As you know, Notre Dame plays in Pittsburgh, October 25th, against Pitt. After the game the Notre Dame Club of Western Pa. will hold a dinner dance for the Team and all friends of Notre Dame. The event will be held in the English Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, Penn Ave. and Tenth Street and everyone is invited. The assessment for the Dinner and Dance will be $7.50, and the meals at the Fort Pitt are the best in town. The assessment for the dance alone will be $3.00, and I can assure you that the Music will be the very best in Pittsburgh that night. Dinner will be served from seven-thirty (7:30) 
P. M. until nine (9:00) o'clock. The orchestra will begin playing at eight o'clock and will continue until you are ready to call it a day. The Fort Pitt Hotel will also be head-quarters for Notre Dame Men before and after the game, and you can tell everyone, that there will be a Notre Dame represent­ative at the Hotel to give any desired information. The Notre Dame Club of Western Penna. will not handle anytickets for this game, and anyone desiring tickets for this encounter should get in touch with either the Notre Dame Athletic Association or the University of Pittsburgh Athletic Association. Tickets for this game are selling fast, so the sooner the better—let's hurry. 
Any one that is in Pittsburgh, Fri­day Night, October 24th, and would care to see a Night Football Game, can do so by traveling out to Forbes Field, and witnessing Elmer Layden's Duquesne University Team in action. Everj'one that remembers Layden and his "Three "Horsemen" pals will cer­tainly want to see his team in action. Layden has a second edition of Notre Dame at Duquesne, and it is really worth going to watch his boys work. All Notre Dame men in Pittsburgh are loyal rooters for the Dukes. 
"S 

tember ALUMNUS with the dope on John Le Grand Cotton's birth on May 
29. Henry McCuUough writes that Fpd and Mrs. Cotton have another child, a little girl, who displayed con­siderable accuracy at bursting toy balloons at a recent K. of C. picnic. If Jack has as much pep later, he adds, he ought to make it tough for 
N. D.'s football rivals later. Fod is coaching at St. Ambrose College, Davenport. 
The Notre Dame coaching staff of some twenty years hence won't have 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
to go outside the Athletic Office for material. J. ARTHUR HALEY, '26, and Mrs. Haley are the latest con­tributors to the list of prospects. The second Haley son arrived the morning of Oct. 7. The score on prospects now stands: Rockne 3, Haley 2, Jones 
1. An end and a backfield to be sup­plied offer the rest of the coaching staff a chance for hereditary BRT. 
Mystery surrounding the tardiness of John F. O'Connell, '13, 2224 Clifton Ave., Democratic candidate for judge of the Municipal Court, in opening his campaign was dispelled October 8 when a 9-pound baby girl was born to Mrs. Adeline O'Connell, wife of the candidate, at the Highland Park Hos­pital. 
Mr. O'Connell, who already has ser\-ed one term on the municipal bench, rubbed his hands in glee and, with great originality, said: "Mother and baby are doing well." 
Patricia Ann Nulty, 6% pounds, was born to Mrs., and Mr., JOSEPH NULTY on Sept. 6. 
The ALUMNUS received indirect data on the birth of twins to the GEORGE "DUTCH" O'DAYS in De­troit, June, and forgot to make men­tion. Doubly sorrv. 
Deaths 

The ALUMNUS is privileged to give a few more details concerning the deaths of two prominent alumni just announced in the September issue. 
WILLIAM T. JOHNSON, '68, was buried ^v^th simple ceremony, yet with the dignity and prestige that more than fifty years of legal practice in Kansas City had won for him. He was a Knight of St. Gregory an honor conferred in 1924. For fifty years, from its founding in fact, he handled every legal matter of the Diocese of Kansas City and never charged a fee for the service. Rt. Rev. Thomas F. Lilly celebrated a Low Requiem Mass for the deceased in the presence of a large congrega­tion of clergy and other friends. Mr. Johnson was retiring by nature and was never prominent in the public ac­ti\'ities of either his profession or his faith. He was 82 years old and a convert to the Catholic Church. 
COL. JOSEPH E. CUSACK, '89, was buried in the new Army post cemetery in San Antonio, Texas on September 8th. He was bom in New York in 1868. During his army career he was stationed in Texas three times. He was in service in Porto Rico, the Philippines and Hono­lulu. In 1895 Col. Cusack was a lieutenant with the Fifth Cavalry; in 1901 an acting quartermaster captain with the Twelfth Cavalry, and in 1909. chief of the Southern Depart­ment commissary. During the World War he was a colonel of the cavalry. 
Two sons of Col. and Mrs. Cusack met with accidental deaths before finishing their training at West Point. Another son, Gordon Cusack, is now in his senior year ot the Military Academy. The youngest son, William, is now in San Antonio with a sister, Margaret, and Mrs. Blanche Cusack, widow of Col. Cusack. The Colonel 
LEADERSHIP™ 
'HP HE TRIBUNE is the first choice of national -*- advertisers in the South Bend market. 
In 1929 THE TKIBUNE led its competitor in na­tional advertising by over 134,392 agate lines, and during the first six months of 1930 by 144,­767 agate lines. 
There is a reason. That reason is results based on performance and THE TRIBUNE'S ability to do a real merchandising job in the large and pros­perous South Bend market. 
National Advertising Manager National Representatives EDWARD J. MEEHAN, '20 STORY, BROOKS & FINLEY, INX. 
Member 10 0,000 Group of American Cities 
QM ..Q 
was quarterback of the first Notre Dame football team in 1887, his pic­ture appearing in this issue with that' famous team. 
REV. PAUL MILLER, C.S.C, M.A.., '24, an instructor in Holy Cross Sem­inary, died September 27. Father Miller was a student at Notre Dame in 1901. He entered the Novitiate in 1905 and was ordained in 1912. He taught for a number of years at St. Edward's in Texas. He came to Notre Dame to teach Latin and Greek in the "little Seminary" and taught there in spite of ill health until the close of the last academic year, when he was taken to the hospital. Father Miller was bom in Hungary in 1883. 
THOMAS D. LAMB, a student at Notre Dame in 1910-11 died August 20 in Banning, Calif. Death was caused by tuberculosis. Mr. Lamb had formerly practiced law in Cleveland. He is survived by his wife and three children. 
Personals 
1880-1885 

Prof. Robert 31. -Anderson, '83, Circle-ville, Ohio, Secretary 
RT. REV. MSGR. JAMES A. SOLON, B.S. '84, M.S. '86, A.M. '92, was invested with the exalted posi­tion of Domestic Prelate to His Holi­ness, Pope Pius XI, with the title and rank of Monsignor. The elevation occurred before Rt. Rev. Edward F. Hoban, Bishop of Rockford, in St. Mary's Church, De Kalb, HI. where Msgr. Solon has been pastor for 31 years. More than 2,000 persons were present for the elevation. Amplifiers carried the ceremonies to the crowd who were unable to find seats iii the church. Bishop Hoban spoke briefly, saying in part, "We rejoice with Father Solon and are here to congrat­ulate him on the dignity conferred upon him. We wish him many years of service for the Lord. We all realize the office of the priesthood is the greatest honor that can be con­ferred upon man. Nothing can sur­pass it. It is wholesome from time to time to single out a member and honor him to a greater extent. It is in that spirit these honors are con­ferred. No one has been more faith­ful, more zealous than the one hon­oreid today." 
Citizens and Catholic organizations of the entire diocese honored Msgr. Solon. REP. FRANK A. MCCAR­THY, '06, of Elgin, was among the speakers. 
Monsignor Solon, in addition to his faithful service as parish priest, has done much in hospital and educational work in his parish and has kept in close contact with Notre Dame. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
1913 the law class of that year, for to use Dame plays here in Los Angeles this 
James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers Bldg^ Cleveland, Ohio, 
JOHN F. O'CONNELL is a candi­date for Judge of the Municipal Court of Chicago at the November election, on the Democratic ticket. John drew the largest number of votes in the re­cent primary election and hence gets the No. 1 position on the judicial ballott. He has been elected to the municipal bench, a few years before, and at that time was the youngest judge on the bench in Chicago. He has been active in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and was a director of that organization for several years. 
1916 
T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust BIdg., Hammond, Indiana. 
THOMAS ADRIAN HAYES, LL.B, '16, is now the manager of the Better Business Bureau in his home city of Fort Wayne. Tom was in ill health for several years following his serv­ices in the World War, but recovered sufficiently to become associated with the Better Business Bureau in 1925, and that he has made progress is evi­denced by the fact that he assumed the managership of the Bureau on December 1, 1928. He reports his health as okeh once more, but says that his finances have suffered from the present "repression." Tom can be reached at 437 Standard Building, Fort WajTie, Indiana. The Class Sec­retary advises all golfers shooting over irinety to demand a handicap from Tom. The Secretary failed to do this in a recent match and the consequences were disastrous. 
LEO L. TSCHUDI, LL.B., '16, has demonstrated that Notre Dame did not wean him away from the charms of Old Dubuque because he has re­sided there ever since graduation and apparently is a very important part of the community. Leo has married, is the father of one child, and for sev­eral years has held the office of County Recorder. His address is 1949 Jackson Street, Dubuque, Iowa. 
. HUGH E. CARROLL, LL.B., '16, has shown that he is somewhat unique among the members of that law class for the reason that he is still prac­ticing law. Hugh is located in the United States National Bank Build­ing, East Chicago, Indiana. To prove that he has been a success, it is only necessary to assert that he has lived in East Chicago for a number of years and has never yet been indicted. Hugh is married, but despite this fact has been one of the most active mem­bers of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet District, having served as president last year. 
REV. E. VINCENT MOONEY, C.S.C., LL.B., '16, has given further demonstration of the versatilitv of 
his own words, he is "now engaged in the Christian education of youth." Father Mooney is one of a band of Holy Cross Priests who went to St. Thomas College at St. Paul to take over the management of that institu­tion last year. Father Mooney is now principal of St. Thomas Military Academy. He was unable to attend the 1916 Class Reunion in June be­cause of the fact that the Academy Commencement at St. Thomas was held on June 1st. Father Mooney is attacking the problems of upbuilding the academy with all of his old-time spirit, and he will appreciate the ef­forts of his classmates in sending academic students to St. Thomas. We have no doubt that Father Mooney finds himself at home in a military academy, and that the cadets at St. Thomas will show much of the same efficiency that the Walsh Hall com­pany displayed in the old days when Father Mooney was the Chief Assist­ant to Maor Stogsdall and Sergeant Campbell. 
Father Mooney's address is St. Thomas Military jVcademy, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
LOUIS F. KEIFER, Ph.B., in Jour­nalism, '16, is still conducting the ad­vertising department of the Terre Haute Tribune, and may be reached at 116 Adams Street, Terre Haute, Indiana. He reports that he is not only married but also the father of one child, a boy three years of age, who is bright and takes after his father, but can't catch him. Lou is evidently of the impression that the .4.1umni notes are an exchange column, because he has requested the secre­tary to announce that he is anxious to exchange one baby carriage whose speedometer registers only 5,000 miles for a Ford tire (Model T). 
P-ATRICK MALONEY, LL.B., '16, is still celebrating the birth of his third child, a boy who arrived on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. The old third baseman from St. Joe Hall is quite extravagant in the predictions he is making for this son, but other­wise Pat is still travelling along in the sound manner that characterized all his activities at Notre Dame. Pat was just recently appointed as at­torney for the Lake County Title Company, and now has his office at Crown Point, but still resides at 3544 Monroe Street, Gary, Indiana. 
1920 Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
Dear Jim: The following contribution to the .A.LUMNUS is not entirely relative to the Class of 1920, nevertheless it in­volves a number of men who were around Notre Dame at.that time. I contemplate having more news for you in the next issue, since Notre 
year and, no doubt, there will be a 
lot of old boys showing up for foot­
ball tickets from now until the time 
of the game. 
Requests have been coming thick and fast for tickets for the Notre Dame-University Southern California game here December 6th. I might as well hang up the office phone, since every other call is for tickets. 
I just received a call from HANK 
SYMONDS, '12. 

HUMBERT BERRA, 0. S., known to his friends as Wop, just left my of­fice. Wop is looking for comps and will need them in pairs this year. It seems that a year ago Wop visited one of the motion picture studios and bet one of the fair young ladies of the motion picture profession that Notre Dame would beat University of Southern California by more than one touchdown, in Chicago last year. Hav­ing failed to do this. Wop finds him­self in need of two comps rather than one. Ivnowing Wop's troglodytic pro­pensities, and the fact that he has al­ways been a living example of the old axiom that he who travels alone travels fastest and farthest, we can all appreciate the sacrifice Wop is making in paying off the bet. 
ED HOGAN, '22, erstwhile pole-vaulter, of Youngstown, Ohio, is now located in Los .A.ngeles, with his wife and is employed as credit manager for the Emsco Products Corporation of Los Angeles, manufacturers of everything from clay bricks to aero­planes. 
TOM LIEB will have the usual "light but fast and shifty" team at Loyola University, Los Angeles. Tom has brought CHARLEY RILEY of Chicago, Soldier Field fame, to Los Angeles to assist him in teaching said light but fast team to be shifty. 
GENE KENNEDY is expected to win the Los Angeles -A.thletic Club Golf Tournament, and is receiving no little amount of publicity in the daily sheets. Gene shoots in the seventy's consistently and would be a second Bobby Jones if he were practicing his profession of law, but due to the fact that his duties with the Bank of Italy, now Bank of America, N. A., are so confining, he does not give as much time for practicing his trick shots as Bobby Jones. 
I visited a few days in San Fran­cisco and saw SLIP MADIGAN at the new St. Mary's University, just out of Oakland, California. Slip has VINCE McNALLY assisting him, and from the looks of the material Slip has and the results of the game played Sun­day, Slip will have one of the best teams on the Coast. Incidentally St. Mary's College run by the Christian Brothers, has built a new Dining Hall, which is a replica of the one recently built at Notre Dame. 
"BUCK" SH-A.W and CLIPPER October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME A L U M N U S - 77 

B 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
Informal stag Dinner For details apply-Friday evening, Nov. 28th JAMES A. RONAN, Secretary, 64 W. Randolph Street, 
Formal Dancing Party Chicago, Dl. Saturday evening, Nov. 29th Phone: Central 1491. 
llllltllllllDtlllllllllllllllllllHnltllltllltlttllltlllltllllMlllltllllllllflllMMIIMImilM ­
CONGRATULATIONS 
to Notre Dame upon the dedication of the new Stadium 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITAL DISTRICT 
GREETINGS 

to the University upon the occasion of the dedication of the new Notre Dame Stadium 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT 
BEST WISHES 
for the dedication and the continued success of the new Notre Dame Stadium 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND 
OUR BEST WISHES 
to Notre Dame in dedicating the new Notre Dame Stadium 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON 
Qi 
SMITT will have a good team at 

Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, 
California. They led University of 

California for three quarters, seven to 
six. Final score, however, was nine­
teen to seven in favor of California. 
BODIE ANDREWS is now assist­

ant coach at the University of Cali­
fornia and has installed a modified 
shift, which judging from results of 
Saturday's game between University 
of California and Santa Clara, worked 
successfully. 
AL SCOTT advises that the pro­

spective halfback known as Joseph 
Scott, III, now three months old, \vill 
carry on for Notre Dame in due time. 
CHARLES E. (Eggball) CUSACK 

has shifted the center of his activities 
from Chicago to Beverly Hills. 
ED McMAHON, '20, is now in Los 

Angeles, and is employed as executive 
manager of the Security Title Insur­
ance Company, in charge of the Ab­
stract Department. 
JIM PHELAN, '18, and DANNY LAMONT , O. S., coach and manager of Athletics at University of Wash­ington, were seen in Los Angeles", this summer. 
CLIPPER SMITH entertained at his Hermosa Beach home, where he was picking his Ail-American Ladies Back Field from the bathing beauties capering on the beach. 
FR.ANK BARRY recently was a candidate for State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus, and lost out in the final election by a very few votes. 
Another interesting old-timer, DR. JACK NAUGHTON, who played on Notre Dame's first football team, in the days of Harry Jewett, and the other immortals, now resides in Los Angeles. 
Among the other medicos of note formerlv attending Notre Dame, is DR. FRANK BRESLIN, who is al­ways assured of a place on the bench in every Southern Califomia-Notre Dame Game, out here where he is ex­pected to bind up the sick and weary. 
Another Notre Dame doctor who recently achieved no little amount of publicity is DR. WM. MALONEY, who is staff physician at the Los Angeles Emergency Hospital. Recent­ly Dr. Maloney was called in to at­tend a man whose Jugular vein had been severed as a result of an auto­mobile accident. Dr. Maloney sewed up the jugular vein and the man still lives, contrary to all previous surgical phenomena. 
The regular Notre Dame Club meetings usually find a few of the alumni and Old Students in regular attendance, among these are HENRY DOCKWEILER, '12, DAN ROBERTS, '20, JOE SUTTER,'19, AL SCHMITT, '20, JIM KELLY, 0. S., ED ASHE, '22, and GENE ICENNEDY, '22. 
AUGUST VAN WONTERGHEM recently paid a ^'isit to California, and left a note that he was going to Ague 
Caliente, which is a famous watering 
hole on the Mexican side of the Cali­
fornia Border, and would return with­
in a few days. This was several 
weeks age and Gus has not returned 
as yet. 
TIM MOYNIHAN, AU-American 

Center, on last year's team has been 
acting for Warner Bros, in a picture; 
to be released very shortly, entitled 
the "AU-American." Report has it 
that Tim screens well and makes the 
kind of love that gets by the censors. 
Other Notre Dame men appearing 

in the monies at the present time are 
WALTER O'KEEFE and CHARLIE 
BUTTERW^ORTH. 
. Rumor has it that FATHER 
O'HARA spent a few days in Los 
Angeles. However, his visit was ex­
tremely short since none of the Notre 
Dame men had an opportunity of see­
ing Father O'Hara. 
SOLLY B.A.IAINO, 0. S., '20, re­

cently won the motion picture actor's 
tennis tournament here in Los Ang­
eles. 
I realize that the above material 

reads more or less like the personal 
column in the Osceola' Bugle, never­
theless, it is such personal items as 
come to my attention which may be 
of interest to various alumni. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1023 Monroe Ave., 
Rochester, N. Y. 

JERRY JONES is back from Boston, the land of the sacred cod, whither he went to attend the Nation­al Convention of the Ivnights of Columbus. Jerry was an Illinois state delegate. 
Hip! Hip! AL SCOTT reports a daughter and so does RAY IvEARNS. 
CLINT LINTZ decided to make a trip from Rochester to Montreal to study the Quebec form of govern­ment, and to brush up a bit on his French. All this he intends to do in the brief period of three or four days. Weeks passed and finally Cint re­turned to Rochester. He reports the delay unavoidable—an automobile ac­cident damaged his car and he was obliged to await materials for repairs. Ripley says: 'Believe it or not.' 
Present unsatisfactory conditions seem to warrant the appointment of a prefect of discipline with an ade­quate force of M. P.'s to enforce law and order among the alumni groups. Just recently, the writer was awak­ened from a sound slumber about 
3:00 A. M. one crisp morning to an­swer a long distance telephone call from Chicago, wherein, some of his beloved classmates apparently suffer­ing from insomnia, sought news about conditions in general and about noth­ing in particular. ' 
All men of '22| join in expressing sympathy to MARK FOOTE, whose father passed awiy during the sum­mer. 
1926 Gerald W. Hayes, Youngstown Sheet and Tube C c Evanston, III. 
My dear Jim: 
I am glad WINGERTER reported for me last month. At that time I was busy doing nothing gracefully. I have just returned ' from Jersey where I had three weeks of respite from my work in Chicago. Now I have eleven more weeks to serve at Northwestern and for the January issue of the ALUMNUS, you will have my change of address. 
These truly will be random notes. I have nothing organized to give you, but I did have the pleasure of visits 
•with several of the boys back East and I can report these. It was a real delight, Jim, to attend some of the functions of the New Jersey Club of Notre Dame. Their loyalty to Our Lady's school was very edifying. First there was the dinner at which the Club entertained the New Jersey matriculants to Notre Dame. I am sure the new men enjoyed meeting the "old" and I know it was gratify­ing to the organization to see sixty splendid boys from the district enter Notre Dame. Then came the annual retreat at Loyola, Morristown, N. J. Some few over thirty came out for this spiritual house-cleaning. After this week-end one feels that every comer and crevice of the soul is scoured—if the soul has corners and crevices! At any rate, it is an affair which I hope never to miss after I have permanently settled in Jersey. By this reti-eat, also, the boys have established in the East a beautiful name for Father O'Hara's training. Shortly before I left Jersey I attended one of the Club's regular meetings. Over forty men devoted the evening to discussion and debate and the re­sult was even more entertaining than one of Father Con Hagerty's old Philosophy classes. And that is some­thing! ART LEAMOND and BILL "NICK" CARTER are the "devil's ad­vocates" and they act the part well. But I do not want to make this a panegyric to the New Jersey Club, I merely want you and all at school to know how short a distance is nine hundred miles when it comes to the question of loyalty. 
With Jake Purcell's assistance, I am able to submit a few '26 notes— some old, some new, but all, to me at least, more or less interesting. 
JIM SILVER still labors for the Fidelity Union Trust Co. in Newark, spicing his work with dashes of law and love—^both of which are scheduled to overwhelm him presently. . . TOM FARRELL establishes the worth and worthiness of prospective borrowers from the New Jersey National Bank— 
October, 1930 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
also in Newark . . . KERNAN "Big Wink" WINGERTER is advancing rapidly with the General Motors Ac­ceptance Corporation. BOB SHIELDS, '27, is his understudy .. . ED HAR­GAN who recently travelled to Cleve­land for MARTY DALY'S wedding, is the "head man" on books for the Child's Securities Company on Wall Street .. . ED BURIvE, chasing the seasons, spent the summer at Asbury Park as manager of the shore office of the Commercial Investment Trust Company. It is rumored that Ed will winter at Winston-Salem or Biloxi. . . . DICK "BOZO" PURCELL an­nounced the blessed event on Septem­ber nineteenth. The Purcells call it Claire. . . . Here allow me to leave the Far East for Detroit and Pitts­burgh. I have seen no announcement of DUTCH O'DEA'S twins of early June. Congratulations to George and also to JOHN and "BILLIE" RYAN upon the coming of Sheila Ann. I have a long letter brewing for John, who has been so faithful and whom I have neglected . . . EDDIE DUGGAN is founding an excellent name in Newark for the Notre Dame Law School by means of his splendid work in the Jersey courts. Eddie suffers not from inanition for his wonderful little spouse knows how to whet the palate. I speak from experience. Here, too, I want to digress to sing praises for all the members of the Ladies Auxiliary of N. D. '26. It 
NOTRE 

makes me, having decided on a mar­riage date not sooner than eight years hence, envious of all these lucky fellows —JIM RONAN, GEORGE O'DEA, JAICE PURCELL, BUSH ROLWING, ART SULLIVAN, dam it, there are too many! Some day I \vill take roll and separate the chaff (bachelors!) from the wheat. Never­theless, STACK, FARRELL, and I are going to form a bachelor's club . . . Jim Stack, incidentally, toils mightily at St. Vincent's in New York and is reaping a harvest of in­valuable experience in medicine . . . JIM "MONK" WALDRON has re­turned, permanently, from Saranac and is now at home at 317 Roseville Avenue, Newark . . . DAN O'NEILL is "engineering" for someone in Pat­erson or Passaic . . . TOM SHERI­DAN of Bergenfield occasionally drops in on meetings . . •. JIM WHELAN recently "middle-aisled" it. When is JACK ADAMS going? . . . "SLIM" DONOVAN is now with Bur­rough's and he sees COYNE HAT­TON when he comes in from Webb City . . . ANDY SLEIGH is now "papa-ing" a boy which weighed in at eight pounds. Andy and TOM "LIGHTNING" EDWARDS manage to keep stable Weston, W. Va.'s finan­cial institutions. GENE EDWARDS helps the big brother when he is not at St. Vincent's, Latrobe, Pa. coaching the backfield for CLEM CROWE . . . JIM McQUAIN has accounted for 
himself to Farrell, but we still won­der about his stewardship. (Where is "PUT" NEWMAN?) . . . RICHIE "RED" SMITH is coaching football at Seton Hall College, South Orange, New Jersey and by the time this comes to print he hopes to have trounced JOHNNY LAW and his Manhattan College outfit... FR.4NK MILBAUER, bigger and better than ever, is happily married and on the side is winning laurels for himself along weighty lines — heaving any­where from thirty to fifty-six pounds variable but appreciable distances. There were a few pleasant days with Frank over his insurance routes while I was in the East. 
I met "BUSH" ROLWING, for­merly of little Egypt but now of Shreveport, while in New York. Bush "honeymooned" in the North. Mrs. Rolwing was formerly Miss Margue­rite Stanton of Shreveport and St. Mary's, Notre Dame . . . Last Sun­day Farrell, Wink, Stack and I jour­neyed to Phillipsburg, N. J. where BEN BOURNE engineers for Inger-soll-Rand. Ben and Mrs. Ben had flown for the day, but the Doctor be­came Mr. Hyde, or better Mr. Valen­tine, and "laparotomized" the house. Having wined and dined we left Phil­lipsburg but very few edibles in Ben's kitchen. We're signing up Mr. and Mrs. Bourne for the "Reunion." 
The Reunion—the boys in the East are considering it with enthusiasm 
 DAME STADIUM 
built of 
I 

MARQUETTE CEMENT MANUFACTURING CO. CHICAGO MEMPHIS LASALLE CAPE GIRARDEAU ST. LOUIS 
)llllltlMtlllMti)tllililillM«l tiMiti)ill)iiliiiltilt*llll ' 
and already we have signed up the folloiving: 
Thomas Farrell, East Orange, N. J. 
Jake Purcell, Orange, N. J. 
Eddie Duggan, Orange, N. J. 
Dick Purcell, Bloomfield, N. J, 
Ed Hargan, BelleWlle, N. J. 
Bush Rohving, Shreveport, La. 
Keman Wingerter, Nev/ark, N. J. 
Jim Silver, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
Jim Waldron, Newark, N. J. 
This is merely a start. Next month 
I hope to have some organization ar­
ranged and we'll see what our Chica­
go group is doing. Jim, there's no 
use of my inserting a plea for more 
interest in this column. Unless the 
fellows in the hinterlands wi-ite to me, 
I'll have news only of those with 
whom I come in contact. My only re­
quest is that those of us, who are 
reluctant to have mention made of 
them here, set aside their prejudices 
—or whatever these trends may be 
called—for this Reunion year and 
give us their good will to make our 
day next June a joj-ful one. 
With this rambling, I have already 
dissipated too much precious space in 
this department. I'll stop now. You'll 
see me, Jim, at the S. M. U. game. 
Jerry. 
1928 
Louis Buckles', Notre Dame, Ind, Secretarj-. 
JOHN ROBINSON was a visitor on 
the campus this month. John is now 
located in Aurora, Illinois with the 
Northwestern Life Insurance Com­
pany. BILL BROWN dropped in long 
enough to say hello and inform the 
Class Secretary that he intends to 
hang up his shingle in Racine, Wis­
consin. Bill received his Law degree 
from Wisconsin last June. Bill men­
tioned that JOHN SEITER is now at 
St. Louis Medical School. 
CARROLL PINCKLEY finished his course at the Hai-vard School of Busi­ness Administration and has returned to St. Louis where he is employed in the First National Bank. He is living with BILL LAHEY in St. Louis at 5519 Clemens Avenue. Bill also fin­ished Harvard and is with the Shell Company. 
Rumor has it that FRED EVANS was married on June 15th. Fred is located in Vicksburg where he is in the lumber business. 
After waiting all these years the Class Secretary of our Junior vear, FRANK CREADON came through with a letter. Frank is with the West­ern Electric Company in Chicago. Western Electric claims a number of Notre Dame men including RAY MULLIGAN, DAN MOORE, ED MANDEVILLE, JIM LYDON and ED FLYNN. Frank took a trip this summer through the East so reports on a number of the men there. Prank stopped at Buffalo long enough to see GORDON BENNETT, '29, and make 
a trip to Canada with him. In Boston he ran into RED CANNON and found that JIM COOGAN had returned East. Frank reports that Jim is still single but that one of the neighbor's daughters seems to occupy a great deal of his time in Fall River. Frank saw FRANK BURNS, '31, in Fall River and learned that WALT GOFF is master of the high seas, in the capacity of harbor master in Fall River. After spending an entire after­noon trying to locate CONNIE OCHOA and CHARLIE SHELAN­SKY in New York City, Frank found the former had returned to Mexico and the latter must have been in hid­ing someplace in the city. 
TOM MAHON dropped us a few lines from Duluth. Tom also visited the East and Canada this summer. Tom regretted missing BOB HAMIL­TON when he was in New York. He did stumble onto BOB NEWBOLD in the back pew of a Church in Wash­ington. "Tom had a visit with JIM­MY STACK in New York at St. Vin­cent's Hospital where Jim is doing his interne work. 

My old roommate WILLARD WAG­NER writes from 150 William Street, New York, where he is with the Royal Indemnity Company. Wag has been rooming with JOHN ANTUS in New York. John spent the summer at Notre Dame studying law. Wag promises to make us a visit this fall. 
I ^\•ill be looking forward to wel­coming a number of the '28 men back the week-ends of the Navy and the Carnegie games. There are still a few '28 men left on the campus. BILL JONES is kept busy with his last year of Law, the Freshman team, and the frequent trips to Detroit. ANDY BOYLE is finishing his work on his Ph.D. this year here. BOB WARD is Andy's roommate. DICK HINCH­LIFF is back on the campus again. Dick is doing some pre-medical work. Be sure to look up the '28 men if you come back for any of the games. You can reach me by calling the home of Professor Cooney at 413 LaMonte Terrace. 
1929 

Joseph P. ^IcNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, who might be called responsible for this column, is so vitally embroiled in the active political circles of the Hoosier capital that only an occasional buzz or burst escapes him. Joe's mind, however, is functioning with the old speed, and the Editor expects that the Class of '29 is going to be more than satisfied with the Secretary, even though these occasional brief columns do spot the annual volume. One suggestion is that letters written to Joe by members of the Class would be welcomed and forwarded to the mutual edification of the 29ers. 
1930 
Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth 
Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Sec'y. 

Dear Jim: Your little plea to the fellows to keep my postman busy brought two very interesting letters. BOB EGGE­MAN wrote from Fort Wayne where he is attempting to practice law, and CON CAREY sent some news from New York where he is attending Fordham Law School. I understand that HARRY BUS­SCHER is back at N. D. in the law school, minus one perfectly good mus­tache. OONIE DONOVAN, JACK CHEVIGNY, and BILL JONES are-also at N. D. dividing their time be­tween law school and coaching. 
The Fordham Law school has a 

number of N. D. men. Besides CAR­
EY, TOM CUNNINGHAM and WAR­
REN FOGEL of our class and JACK 
LAVELLE, FRANK McCULLOUGH, 
and ED BRYZINSKI of '29 are there. 
FRANK CORBETT, BERNARD 

BROEICER, JIM IRWIN, and PETE 
WACKS are all at Har\-ard Law 
School. 
JOHN LAW and TOM ICENNEAL­

LY are trying to win some football 
games at Manhattan, despite a lot of 
green material. This Saturday they 
are to oppose RED SMITH'S Seton 
Hall team of South Orange, N. J. 
Other fellows around New York are LARRY CRONIN, BILL SHERMAN, BOB HAIRE, and HARRY SYLVES­TER, the sports writer. 
A report from Cleveland brings the 

information that JIM CALLAHAN is 
employed by the May Drug Co. and 
that JOE BUTLER gets paid by 
Hornblower & Weeks brokerage firm. 
DAVE BERRY is to be found in the First National Bank of Johns­town on working days. BOB SLOAN, another Johnstowner, is attending Pitt Law School. JOHN NANOVIC has an advertising racket that he is trying to work on the Eastern Penn­sylvanians. JOE MOONEY of Erie has a position with the Pittsburgh Press and JIM DODSON is on the payroll of the Hubbard Shovel Co. in Pittsburgh. TOM MURPHY is a big oil man in Butler, Pa. We hear from Washington that JIM MALLOY is making a fine record with the Bell Telephone Co. JACK CANNON drifted South for the fall to coach at Alabama Polytechnic School. 
I hope this will help along the Ded­ication number, Jim. Most of the fellows are finding work hard to get, but when they do get settled I'm sure they'll cash in with their dues and a boost for the Living Endowment. 
I suppose you have heard that the West Penn club is planning a big time at the Pitt game. 
I hope to see you at the Navy game. 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME A L U M N TJ S 81 
1855 -SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNIVERSARY ' 1930 
rLvery home can be a home of comfort 
"If we could only have such a bathroom." How often have you remarked it as you came across one of the beautiful Crane bathrooms that are so vddely adver­tised. You can have one . . . not sometime, but nowl 
Any single fixture or group of fixtures in the complete Crane line—which ranges from pumps to lavatories, including all the valves and fittings essential to an installation—can be bought under the Crane Budget Plan for only 10% down and the balance in small monthly payments. 
Any Crane Qualified Contractor Dealer, who is always a licensed or registered master plumber or heating contractor, chosen for his good workmanship, can tell you about this plan; or you can learn its details as well as examine the comfort and beauty of modem plumbing by visiting a nearby Crane Branch and Exhibit Room. 
CRANE CO., GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE., CHICAGO NEW YORK OFFICES: 23 W. 44TH STREET 
Branchti ar.d Sales Offiea in One Hundred and Ninety'dx Gtia 
COACHES BEFORE ROCKNE 
N
OTRE D.A.ME football teams have had more coaches than the average person is led to believe. Rockne has been head 
coach since 191S, and has spread 
glory so far and ^vide that what has 
happened from 1887 to 1918 has been 
practically forgotten. 
In the beginning, it was the cus­tom for some member of the team, usually the captain, to take over the duties of the coach. This method of developing the team was rather suc­cessful, and a few of these same cap­tains became official coaches later on. 
The first football game played by Notre Dame was against Michigan on November 23, 1S87. The team, cap­tained by Henry Luhn, lost the one and only game of the season, how­ever, by the small score of 8-0. The following year Notre Dame defeated Harvard School 20-0. During that year Edward C. Prudhomme was captain. 
In 1889 the football team made its first trip. That year the men again led by Prudhomme, journeyed to Evanston, Illinois, to play Northwest-em University, the only team on the schedule. The team proudly returned to South Bend with a \'ictory of 9-0. 
The team was idle then until 1892 when the sport was resumed. On November 24 of that year Captain Patrick H. Coady coached his team well enough to defeat Hillsdale 6-4. The following year, under the captain­ship of Frank M. Keough, the same school was again defeated by a score of 22-10. Keough was likewise cap­tain of the 1894 team. 
It has been said that the real founder of football at Notre Dame was Frank E. Hering. The team that he built up in 1896 was the one that placed Notre Dame among the leaders in Western athletics. Hering acted both as captain and coach that year. Under him, such men as Mullen, Far­ley, Eggeman, and Harley, were de­veloped. 
Hering was Notre Dame's first coach in the strict sense of the word. However, he acted in that capacitj' for only a few years. An interesting thing to note is that during the Rush Medical game on October 1.3, 1897, which ended in a 0-0 tie, Hering acted as referee. In 1899 Hering retired and was succeeded as coach by James McWeeney. Patrick O'Dea was coach in 1901. 
The outlook for the year 1902 was not so bright. The team was handi­capped early in the season by the ab­sence of a coach. 'Red' Salmon, the captain, with the assistance of some of the regulars, got the team together and soon had the squad practicing. A 
ByJohnO.Weibler/31 
TIT ^F ^F 

little later in the season, James Far­
ragher, a tackle on the 1901 team, 
was secured as coach. Considering 
the material that he had to mold, he 
did wonders with the squad. Out of 
eight games played only two were 
lost and one tied. 
In 1903 the material was good, but again there was no coach. There was a fear that this material would go to waste. Captain Salmon worked hard with his men, coaching them as well as playing himself. It was thought that the task would be too much for 'Red', but he came out on top, produc­ing the most successful eleven that had ever represented Notre Dame un­til that time. Just prior to the North­western game, McWeeney, coach of a few years before, but at this time Chief of Police in South Bend, of­fered to help Salmon. Outside of this little assistance Salmon worked alone. One noteworthy thing about this sea­son was that of the eight competing teams not one of them was able to score a single point against Salmon's team, although Northwestern held them to a scoreless tie. 
In 1904 Salmon was the regular coach, but he had a rather disastrous season because of lack of material and the frequent injury to his players. Of his championship team of the year before he had lost the entire backfield, both tackles, one end, and one guard. Then, too, of the squad of twenty-five, only sixteen were eligible by their classes to play. Salmon worked though with the same perseverance and pluck that was so characteristic of him in his four years of playing. 
For the season of 1905 a monogram man of the teams of 1900, 1901, 1902, and 1903 coached. The team that Henry J. McGlew turned out lost four of the nine games on the schedule. 
1906 introduced a stranger to the West, but a man who became a very successful coach at Notre Dame, Thomas Barry. Barry was graduated from Harvard in June of 1906. Pre­vious to this he had taken a college course at Brown, where he played football for four years. In 1902 he was chosen as the All-American half­back. 
The material that Barry had to deal with in 1906 was green, but he so whipped it into shape that it finished second in the Indiana Championship competition. Barry had a good sys­tem of coaching. He believed in lead­ing his men, never in pushing them, and in giving every man a fair trial, 
playing no favorites. He showed a great deal of reserve power but it never became necessary for him to call upon this. -A proof of Barry's football knowledge came forward in 1907. The material was terrible and things looked mighty gloomy. He knew his men, however, and so in the middle of the season he took Miller, a man who had played nothing but the backfield, and placed him at cen­ter. At the end of the season Miller was picked by nearly every critic as the All-Indiana center. Also in 1907 the team was tied for the champion­ship honors. 
Robert L. Bracken, captain of the 1906 team, acted as assistant coach to Barry. In 1908 Wisconsin University offered Barry the position of coach and he accepted it. Victor Place then took over the duties of coach at Notre Dame. He did not teach his men a vdde variety of plays, but in those that he did use he built up a concen­trated offense that was irresistible; it was like an iron wall. Joseph T. Lantry acted as assistant coach this season. 
The name of the late Frank Long­man is one that has gone down in the history of Notre Dame football. He produced a Western Championship team in 1909. Longman was one of Michigan's greatest players, and also had been coach of the Arkansas Uni­versit}' team. He is noted for train­ing the men in the forward pass and the onside kick. Longman was not so successful in the fall of 1910. He had lost practically all of the good mate­rial from the previous year. As a result, on October 29, the team bowed in defeat at Lansing, Michigan, the first time in two years. 
1911 found Notre Dame on firm ground again, not losing a single game, although fighting both Pitts­burgh and Marquette for 0-0 scores. 
L. H. Marks was the coach of this team. It is also interesting to note that under this coach, Knute K. Rockne received his first football monogram from Notre Dame. In 1911 Marks was assisted in coaching by Don Hamilton. 
Coach Marks went into the 1912' season minus only two men from the team of 1911. He had seven games on his schedule and of this number won seven. His team won for him the Championship of Indiana, and al­so had a logical claim on the Western Championship. It is remarkable to note that during the two years that Marks coached, the team did not have a single defeat scored against them. 
1913 introduced Jesse Harper as the all-around manager, coach, and 
(Continued on Pase 96) 

Indiana Limestone in 
Cleveland's Newest Tower 
Tcnuinal Toircr Grout, Cleveland, Ohio, Graham, Anderson, Probst & IVhite, Architects. John Gilt & Sons, Builders. Built of Gray Indiana Limestone, 
Quarry viciu, Indiana Limestone Company, Bedford, Indiana. 
T
OWERS of fine-grained, light-colored Indi­ana Limestone are now conspicuous on the skj'line of everj- larger citj*. A noteworthy example is Cleveland's Terminal Tower. Mod­ern business has approved the use of natural stone for today's office building. The reason is the proven value of stone as an income producer. 
Where land values are high, every precaution is taken to assure a building's drawing power. Surveys in metropolitan areas show that Indi­ana Limestone buildings have a better than average renting record. The percentage of occupied space in Indiana modern stone struc­tures is unusuall)' high. 
This indication of public approval means much, whether your building is a many-storied tower or an apartment or store building. Indiana Limestone is so moderate in cost that it is being used quite as extensively in small buildings as in the larger structures. 
Before you commit yourself to building of any other material, no matter what tj-pe of con­struction you are undertaking, get a figure on its cost in Indiana Limestone. Our branch offices, located in principal cities, make this information quick and easy to obtain. We will gladly estimate without the slightest oblig^ation. Put us in touch with your architect. 
An illustrated booklet showing modern Indiana Limestone buildings will be mailed free. Please address your inquiry to Dept. 2123C, Service Bureau, Bedford, Indiana. 
INDIANA LIMESTONE COMPANY 
Executive Offices: Tribune Tower, Chicago 
QeneraZ Offices: Bedford, Indiana 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
NOTRE DAME'S FOOTBALL CAPTAINS 
"East is east and west is luest And never the tivain shall meet—" 
—^until beneath Notre Dame's gold­
en Dome the men from the east meet 
the men from the west, and all be­
come members of the one large family 
that knows no sectional bonds or 
prejudices. Democratic Notre Dame 

—^home of the courageous, the illus­
trious, the undaunted—proud home of 
far-famed and unequalled football 
teams. 
Since the first football team which represented Notre Dame back in 1887 the Blue and Gold elevens have been distinctly national in personnel, the players coming from all sections and localities. The worth of Notre Dame as a melting pot of the nation's youth is well illustrated by her football heroes and, more specifically, by the various grid captains. In 1887 Henry Luhn captained the first team; in 1930 Tom Conley leads the latest edition of the Eockne football ma­chines. Luhn came to Notre Dame from Spokane, Washington; Conley is from Philadelphia. Notre Dame, it seems, can blend the twain! 
Captains of Notre Dame elevens have been potential captains of in­dustry. All the traits and qualities of great industrial leaders have been exemplified in this striking series of football leaders. Leaders with a unanimous following, possessing the courage and ability of the undaunted, they have been outstanding in their positions and commanders of the field. They have been leaders of the great industry of football, the unparalleled sport enterprise. 
Graduation sent these captains to many walks of life. Various posi­tions in the fields of business and professions have been capably filled by these one-time Irish leaders. Coaching has claimed its share of the well-instructed and well-developed grid masters. Rockne of Notre Dame, Dorais of Detroit, Phelan of Washing­ton U. and formerly of Purdue, and Walsh of Yale are only a few of the former captains who have attained success as coaches. 
Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C, became a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross after serving as captain of the football team of 1900. At present he is a member of the faculty of the University. Henry Luhn, al­ready mentioned as the earliest cap­tain, later received the degree of doctor of medicine and practiced in his home state of Washington. 
Frank E. Bering of South Bend, president of the Alumni Associa­tion, is prominently identified with the Fraternal Order of Eagles and is 
By ROBERT C BALFE 
^r ^T ^T 

editor of the national publication of the order. Eagles Magazine. He has been officially recognized as the orig­inator of the idea of Mother's Day. In 1896 he was captain of the Notre Dame grid team. His successor as captain, John I. Mullen of lona, Minnesota, holds the lone distinction of being the only three time captain in the history of Notre Dame football. His outstanding ability and qualities of leadership earned him the place as captain in 1897, '98, and '99. Mr. Mullen died in 1927. 
Back in 1903, Louis J. Salmon of Syracuse, New York, was captain of the team which boasted such defen­sive strength that not a point was scored against it during the entire season. Salmon was rated the best full-back in the west and chosen unanimously as All-Western Fullback for 1903. All-Westerns and All-States and even All-Americans were no less common in the early days of football at Notre Dame than they are at present. Salmon, however, was the first N. D. man to make Walter Camp's famous AU-American. Cap­tains and their teammates of the Irish in every year have had some representation on some mythical championship team of each year. 
The versatility of Harry Miller has not been surpassed in the more recent records of grid history. Harry came to Notre Dame from Defiance, Ohio, and was chosen All-Indiana center in 1907. The following year he shifted from the line to the backfield and was selected All-Indiana half-back at the close of the season. 
Daniel V. Casey was the earliest captain who claimed to be a true Hoosier. Casey, whose home was in Crawfordsville, Indiana, led the team in 1895. Only four other native Indi­ana .men have served as captains of the Irish football elevens. They are Frank Bering of South Bend, Clem Crowe of Lafayette, Dominic Calli-crate of Granger, and Howard Ed­wards of South Bend. Edwards is the present head of the Edwards Iron' Works in South Bend and is a fre-. quent visitor to the practice sessions of the team. Crowe was the earliest in the line of Crowe brothers at Notre Dame and was captain in 1925. He is now coaching at St. Vincent's Acad­emy in Pennsylvania. Prank Cough­lin, 1920 captain, is another familiar campus figure. He is a practicing lawyer of South Bend. 
Eugene Edwards and Thomas Hear-den shared the captaincy in 1926, the only year in which the Rockmen have had co-captains. The two "red-heads" constituted a vital part of the back­field of that year and shared duties and honors equally. They were the last backfield men to captain the team, every leader since that time having been a linesman. Smith in 1927, the second "Clipper," was a guard; Miller in 1928 was a tackle, Law of the National Championship road team of 1929 was a guard, and Conley of the 1930 squad is an end. 
Captains of Notre Dame teams have been players of every position, men from many and varied home lo­cations, men of strong individual abil­ities and great leaders. They have been successful in other fields than Notre Dame's football field, and their glories have been well-deserved. They have been a true group of Notre Dame men, loyal to the core, and it is with due pride that Notre Dame lists them here in her e.xclusive set of traditions—^football captains. 
A complete list of captains and their home cities as students follows: 
18S7—Henry Luhn. Spokane, Wash. ISSS—Ednard C. Pnidhomme, Bermuda. La. 18SD—Edward C. Pnidhomme. Bennud.i. La. J892—Patrick H. Coady, Pana, 111. 1893—Frank M. KeouBh. Lamont, 111. 189J—Frank M. Keough. Lamont. 111. 1895—Daniel V. Casey, Crawfordsville, Ind. 189G—Frank E. HerinB, South Bend, Ind. 1897^John I. Mullen, lona. Minn. 1898—John I, Mullen. lona, Minn. 1899—John I. Mullen, lona, Minn. 1900—John F. Farley. Paterson, N. J. 1901-Albert C. Fortin, Chicago. III. 1902—Louis J. Salmon, Syracuse. N. Y. 1903—Louis J. Salmon, Syracuse, N. Y. 1904-Francis J. Shaughnessy, Amhoy, 111. 1903—Patrick A. Beacom, Sheldon. la. 19C6—Robert L. Bracken, Polo, HI. 1907—Dominic L. Callicrate. Granger. Ind. 1908—M. Harry Miller, Defiance, Ohio. 1909—Howard Edwards, South Bend. Ind. 1910—Ralph C. Dimick, Hubbard. Oregon. 1911—Luke L. Kelly, Boston, Mass. 1912—Charles E. Dorais, Chippewa Palls, Wis, 1913—Knuta K. Rockne. Chicago, III. 191-1—Keith K. Jones, Missoula, Mont. 1913—Freeman Fitzgerald, Cosmopolis, Mich. 191G—Stanley Cofall, Oeveland, Ohio. 1917—James Phelan, Portland, Oregon. 1918—Leonard Bahan. Somerset. Kentucky. 1919—Leonard Bahan. Somerset, Kentucky 1920—Frank Coughlin, Chicago, HI. 1921—Edward Anderson, Mason City, la. 1922—Glenn Carberry, Ames, la. 1923—Harvey Brown, Youngstown. Ohio. 1924—Adam Walsh. Hollywood, Calif. 
1923-Qem Crowe, Lafayette, Ind. 1926—Eugene Edwards, Woston, W. Va., and 
Thomas Hearden, Green Bay, Wis. (co­

captains) . 1927—John P. Smith. Hartford, Conn. 1928—Frederick Miller, Milwaukee. Wis. 1929—John B. Law, Yonkers, N. Y. 1930—Thomas Conley, Philadelphia, Pa. 
,.i-s=;^-ff-^:a 
October,  1930  THENOTREDAMEALUMNUS  85  
iiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiatiiiiiiiaitiitittiiiiiiiii  <a  
In  Touch M^^ith  
Notre Dame  
at all Times  
A.  
Ride the Cars Direct  
to the Campus!  
A>.  
Interurban  cars and busses for  
special parties at reasonable rates  
Northern  
Indiana Railway  Inc.  

Qlllll, ttllllltll ••••••••••I IIDtllllllll •••)lll))lllttllllll)llllllllltlIIIIIMIIIIItltllll(ll •••(ItlllttllUllltlllMIHHIMMIMIIinillMIMMIMIMKIIHMIHHIINMHIMMIIHMIMIimniMIMUMUMQ Ei" iiiiKaoiiiiiaitiittiiiiittiiit 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Sold Notice of meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box SI, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CLEVELAND: Mondays—^year round luncheon meetings. HoUenden Hotel. NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 East 38th Street. CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—Ivory Room, Mandel's. DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue. PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—12:15—Gimbel's Dining Room, 6th Avenue and Smithfield Street. LOS ANGELES: Dinner meeting each month—call officers for details. CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon-Broadway Hotel. NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­ark Athletic Club. INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—diiferent locations. Call H. R. Dempf, 400 M. E. Gaylor Bldg., Louisville. 
WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, ir07 Wells Street. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. Call Dudley Shively, Associates Bldg., South Bend. DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 Ruby Street, for details. NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—noon —Grill Room, Fairmount Hotel, San Francisco. FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John V/. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKiernan, secretary. ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­merce Private Dining Room. DISTRICT OP COLUMBIA: Monthly luncheon—Last Wednesday of each month—^University Club. SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. 
iiiiitiittiimiiiiiiiiMiiiiiMiiiii iQ 

"GET IN SHAPE NOW" NICK TELLS TRACKMEN 
"I don't care whether or not you make a good showing in the fall handicap meet. I won't even be watching you. All I want is for you to get out'here, learn the method of doing these things, and get your body in shape for the wrork to come during the indoor season this winter." Thus Coach John P. Nicholson ad­dressed a group of track candidates Tuesday afternoon, Oct. 1, in the Uni­versity gymnasium. 
The talk, intended primarily for the thirty-odd freshmen in the group, stressed the importance of reporting daily and working seriously when on the track. 
"Nick" pointed out that at the present time he can work with each man individually and devote all of the time necessary to correct faults any man may possess. This winter it %vill be impossible with from 50 to 100 varsity candidates on his hands each day. 
The fall season lasts little more than three weeks and is climaxed by the annual fall handicap meet, place-winners in which will receive medals and other prizes. Although the date for this meet has not been definitely set, it will probably be held about October 18. 
CINDER TRACK BEING RELAID 
The cinder running track in Cartier Field has been undergoing some very pctensive repairs this month. Coach John P. Nicholson has been personally supervising the work of tearing up the old surface, putting in a firmer foundation, and as the final step, screening and forming the top cinder preparation. 
When completed the track will as­sume a position as one of the finest in the Middle West. Coach Nicholson is well pleased at the prospects of having a perfect running track, since the uncertain foundation of the old one was not conducive "to fast times. 
October, 3930 THENOTEEDAMEALUMNUS 87 
f«|>lltlll>lllllllllllllltilltlllllllllllllllllllllllllltltlltlllllltlltllltllllllllllllllUlllllllltltllltlllllllllltlllltil l>lttlltlll«IIJt»llllll>llilllllllMllllllltMlllilllMIIIMII«MIIIMItltlllMIIWIIIilllllllM»IIIMIMIIMItlM^ 
Meet and Rejoice 
I « after the game at the » | 
VICTORY DANCE 
I « of the » I 
Philddelphid Notre Dame Club 
I Hotel Bellevue Stratford f 
I Notre Dame Headquarters J 
I Informal -:- -:- $3.00 Per Couple | 
QlliiailllliiiiDlllliiiiltllll IIIM ••••I mil iiii Ill Ill llllllllliilllKllillliliiillll iilltillilllllillllillllilli«IIIHlliltlilltiltmtHlllimilllllimilliHtliilimnilliilllllllllltmtllHmHtlllltfS| 
Qllllllllilll iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii I iDiiiilllitlDlliiililllilililllllllilllllDllililllllliMilllillll'llllli m lllitlllllMlllilliilllDlllltllllllilllllllltlllllDl •iMifiiilllllliiiDiilllllliilliiltlillliiltllKuQ ' 
I KANSAS CITY NOTRE DAME CLUB | I HEART OF AMERICA I 
OFFICERS 

COWRAD MAl^'N, Honorara Preaideitt DR. D. M. NIGRO. President MAURICE CARROLL. Secretary HENRY BVRDICK, Viee-l'rcaidenl JOSEPH STEWART, Treasurer 
The folloiving members wish Notre Dame a successful season, again be the National Champions and good luck to the new stadium. 
JAMES F. LILLIS. 1009 Sharp Bids. CONRAD H. JIANN. Commsrce BWB. Real Estate, 1925. OfEanizer and President, K. C. Chamber of Commerce. 
FRED MANCUSO. 1213 Commerce BIdir. DR. D. MIKE NIGRO, 531 Argyle BIdg. Attorney, 1921-22. Industrial Surjrery, 1912-13. 
GEO J. McLINEY, 1016 Baltimore Ave. H. J. MASSMAN. Jit.. 519 American Bank B!dB. Stocks and Bonds. 1928. General Contractor. 1928. 
A. C. FASENMEYER. 842 Minn. K. C. Ks. 
HENRY A. BURDICK, 19th and Main Owner, K. C. Car Rxchange. 1917. Msr. Anheuser-Busch, Inc., K. C. Branch Football, 1906-07: M. E. S., 1908. JOS. B. SHAUGHNESSY. 508 Reliance Bids. 
Architect. GEO. B. REINHARDT. Commerce Bids. MAURICE CARROLL. 713 Linwood Blvd. Attorney. 1915-17 
Architect. WILLIAM F. PURCELL. 1822 E. 69th St Terr. EUGENE VANDEN BOOM, 3821 Broadway Walnut Lumber Co., 1922. Furniture. 
JOHN M. DUGAN. 4427 Tracy HAROLD F. HAYNES, 3028 Sunset Drive Insurance Adjustments. 1918-27 Secretary K. C. Public Service. 
EDWARD "MAPE" McGBATH. 6423 Penn ^^^ DUFFY. 910 Central Secretary Dcpt. of Public Works, 1917-20. Editor. Tavern Talk Pub. Co. 
QM 
What Makes Notre Dame Football! 
Notre Dame football teams are 

without a doubt the greatest thrill 
producing combinations in the world 
of collegiate play. People ^vill swarm 
by the thousands to a game just to 
see the Notre Dame team in action. 
They are to football what Jack Demp­
sey and Babe Ruth are to boxing and 
baseball. It is not because they are 
physically or mentally stronger, or 
that they are gifted with some su­
preme control over the game; they 
win because they never know the 
word "quit." Then of course they are 
coached by the peerless, Knute 
Rockne. 
Notre Dame teams from year to year have played some exciting games; games that were won on just one play, games won on a series of plays, and games won on sheer power. All, however, contained their tense moments. 
For Notre Dame's season of 1928 Loyola University of New Orleans was booked for the opening game on Cartier Field. While Loyola was not considered to be an especially strong opponent, neither were they taken too lightly. However, Notre Dame came on the field that afternoon with all sorts of confidence. It was their opening game and the players con­sidered it more or less a workout. 
The first quarter of the game was fairly even, •ivith Loyola having a slight advantage. The second quarter was about half finished when Loyola awoke to the fact that they were more than holding their own with the much heralded Irish grid stars. After a series of line plunges and forward passes, Loyola succeeded in scoring a touchdo^vn but failed to kick the e.xtra point. The fans from the south went -nild mth joy. Hats flew in all 
By Richard Connelley 

directions, money was being bet on 
the outcome. The chances of Notre 
Dame's winning the game looked very 
bad indeed. 
The second half had hardly begun 

when Jack Elder, the fastest halfback 
that Notre Dame ever had, streaked 
down the field for a touchdown. How­
ever, the extra point was missed. 
Notre Dame seemed to have found 
themselves and it looked as though 
the tide of battle was now turning in 
their favor. 
Throughout the last period the two teams battled up and down the field, Loyola fighting for a tie game, Notre Dame trying in vain to shake a man loose for one more touchdown. 
With but two minutes to play the ball was in the center of the field in possession of the Irish. Suddenly Jack . Chevigny broke loose around Loyola's right end; slipping, dodging and fighting his way he was finally brought down on the ten yard line. Here was the position Rockne had been waiting for all afternoon. He believed he had found a weakness in the enemy's line and here was his chance to take advantage of it, and perhaps score a touchdown. 
The first play against the Loyola line was good but for a scant two yards. Rockne called a quarterback from the bench with instructions to use a certain play. The play was good for three yards. Rockne im­mediately sent in another quarterback with instructions to use another play; the result, three more yards. There was about a minute of play left and Rockne quickly rushed out his last quarterback. On the play called Nie­miec took the ball over for the touch­down that won the game. 
The spectators did not realize what a great piece of strategy this was until long after the game was over. They did not realize that Rockne had been figuring all afternoon just what play to use and when to use it, no matter how many men he had to sac­rifice. However, it was just another incident to prove the greatness of Notre Dame's coach. 
When the people of the nation read of how Notre Dame football teams ring up victory after victory, their minds immediately react to the super­natural. They think the Irish play in a manner that is unlike any other football team. This is not so. When a Notre Dame back breaks away for a long run that means the winning of a game, all eyes are centered on him. Rarely is a thought given to the other players, who made possible the touch­down. The real secret of Notre Dame's success is, not a brilliant running back, or a great pass receiver, but efficient and hard blocking by the rest of the team. 
As an example of this we have the Army game of 1926, in which Flana­gan scored the only touchdown on a run of 65 yards. The play was not a trick one, but a plain off-tackle smash that had been used a number of times before in the same game. Why had it not worked before? Why? Because there was a slip somewhere. Some Notre Dame man had not carried out 
. his assignment, and unless every player does his bit a play will not go against the average Notre Dame op­ponent. On the play that Flanagan scored 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
John Brown!s Body 
On the night of October 16th, 1859, John Brown, self-styled "Commander-in-Chief of the People of the U.S.," led twenty-one armed men in a raid on the arsenal at Harper's Ferry, Virginia. His purpose (backed financially by Gerrit Smith and such potent New Englanders as Frank B. Sanborn, G. L. Stearns, T. W. Hig­ginson, Theodore Parker and S. G. Howe): to establish and fortify a stronghold in the moun­tains where fugitive slaves might take refuge. The raid was successful, but on the 18th Col. Robert E. Lee, with a company of marines, overpowered him, wounding Brown, killing two of his sons. On October 31st, he was con­victed of high treason and murder, and on De­cember 2nd (despite seventeen affidavits swear­ing to his insanity) was prepared for execution at Charlestown. 
As TIME would have reported it, had TIME been published in December, 1859: 
To the jail porch at last came John ("Old Osawatomie") Brown, scuffling in carpet slippers and an ill-fitting black suit. Suddenly silent, 1500 sol­diers stared, wondered how this patriarchal, white-bearded old nan could have been guilty of the cold­blooded massacres in Kansas, of the bloody raid at Harper's Ferry. Those nearest him, guards and offi­cers, saw the bright, fanatic, almost insane light in his eyes as he stood there, and wondered less. With no word, he handed out a written statement, curiously punctuated: "I John Brown am now quite certain that the crimes of this guilty land: will never be purged away; but with Blood. I had as I now think: vainly flattered myself that without very much blood­shed: it might be done." 
Before the porch steps stood an open wagon, on it the fine oak coffin he had chosen for himself. Now, completely surrounded by guards, he descended the steps, climbed onto the wagon. In front three com­panies of infantry drew into line. On either side a file of riflemen formed. The rest of the soldiery de­ployed, filled in gaps, lest rumored attempts at rescue become fact. 
Thus escorted, John Brown, sitting on his cofSn, his arms pinioned, rode through the streets, out to the open fields where stood the gallows. Said John Brown, farmer: "This is a beautiful country" ... . Then, climbing the grim platform, he asked: "Why are none but military allowed in the inclosure? I am sorry citizens have been kept out" ... . 
Before they put the cap on his head and the rope around his neck under the long beard, John Brown shook hands with Jailer Avis and Sheriff Campbell. Then said John Brown, martyr: "I am worth incon­ceivably more to hang than for any other purpose." 
There was a wait of ten minutes while the soldiery marched, counter-marched to their prearranged forma­tion. Finally at 11:15, the Sheriff's axe fell on the rope, releasing the trap, and John Brown dangled, grasping and twitching. Then all was quiet. For 35 minutes he hung there until the doctor was satisfied that the pulse had stopped beating, the silence broken only by Colonel Preston's calm, solemn declaration: "So perish all such enemies of the Nation, all such enemies of Virginia, all such foes of the human race." 
There were no exultations, no tears as the body was cut down, placed in the coffin and conveyed un­der military escort to the railroad station. Mean­while in far-off Albany, one hundred guns boomed a martyr's dirge, and in Utica, Gerrit Smith, chief backer of John Brown's raid, lay helpless in a lunatic asylum 
Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias, turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publica­tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal in the sense that they report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups. 
TIME 
The Weekly Newsmagazine 

YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION $5 .. 205 EAST 42nd STREET, NEW YORK CITY .. 15 CENTS AT ALL NEWSSTANDS 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1330 
0.. IIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
..Q 

Whatever the Spoit-von^H finrj ^ ^ f> / 
Spalding EquipmentXp 
Authentic 

In every Spalding store you'llfind,a wide and varied stock of every kind of athletic goods 
# 

equipment; with experts to assist you in youi choice—and at prices that fit every pocketbook Drop in and see what a real "mans ^?=5>v 
^ store'has to offer: ^^ 
/-^ 
Hi^ fcx 

Qiif llllillDllllllllll 
every Army man was on the ground. 
Up until that play the tivo teams had 
fought a fairly even battle. It was 
the second play of the second half, 
and Flanagan was called on to carry 
the ball. As it was snapped into his 
arms he started out as though to run 
around his right end, then with a sud­
den shift of his body he hurled him­
self through left tackle. Army men 
were bowled over left and right until 
only one remained standing, Harding 
the Army quarterback. Flanagan was 
streaking down the right side of the 
field, as Grantland Rice so ably de­
scribed it, "One lone horseman gal­
loped down the sidelines." It seemed 
as though Harding would be the only 
man left to stop Flanagan's mad dash, when out of a clear sky came Ike Voe­disch, Notre Dame left end to sweep him oif his feet. The rest was easy for the speedy halfback, and he stepped over the line for the only touchdown of the afternoon. It was another typical Notre Dame play com­pleted in a true Rockne fashion. 
Most of the big thrills received at football games come as a result of a flashy run by some backfield man, or else the catching of a long forward pass. Very few tense moments come from a good defensive play. That is considered more or less a matter of course in football. However, there was a play made in the Notre Dame-Minnesota game of 1927 that will re­main stamped in the memory of foot­
211 South State St., l'hicni;«. III. 

ball fans as long as the game is played. 
The game that day was played under the worst possible conditions. It had rained and snowed throughout the previous night and the field was a sea of mud and water. As the Notre Dame team was by far the lighter one they were playing at a disadvan­tage in the heavy going. However, Notre Dame never went into a major game during the past fifteen years that they were not outweighed. 
Minnesota had in their backfield that afternoon the bone crushing Joesting, the most feared back in the Big Ten. Prominent in Notre Dame's lineup were Flanagan, Niemiec and Jack Chevigny. 
The game was hardly one quarter old when Johnny Niemiec skirted the Minnesota left end for a touchdown, and the extra point was added. From then until the last quarter it was a bruising, bitterly fought battle. Fi­nally Minnesota got a break and re­covered a fumble on Notre Dame's five yard line. It seemed as though nothing could stop them from scoring. Three times that human battering ram, Joesting, flung himself at that frantic but staunch Irish line, and three times he was stopped cold in his tracks. It was a tense moment and the stands were as still as death waiting for Minnesota to make their final gesture at Notre Dame's goal line. 
ra^^jl 
The men took their positions and 
the Gopher quarterback reeled off a 
series of cold, hard numbers, that 
alone broke the dead stillness. Sud­
denly the ball was snapped into the 
hands of Almquist, a halfback, who 
with Joesting and two other men in 
front of him, began to skirt the Notre 
Dame left end. The Irish were taken 
unawares by the unexpected play and 
their end was soon forced to the in­
side. The stands arose panic stricken, 
Minnesota seemed on a clear path to 
a touchdown. However, there was 
one man on that blue clad team who 
thought diff'erently and that was Jack 
Chevigny. As Almquist rounded the 
end with a clear field ahead of him, a 
mud splashed figure was seen to 
streak through the air as though shot from a cannon. Wham! and Almquist was smashed to earth one yard be­hind his own line of scrimmage. The crowd was stunned, so much in fact that they hesitated for a moment, then broke out in a panic of wild yelling and cheering. 
There was a former Yale football player viewing the game that day, and, in an article that appeared a few weeks later in the Chicago News, he described Chevigny's tackle as the greatest defensive play he had ever witnessed. 
These are just a few of the inci­dents of football as played by Notre Dame, but they go to show why their teams are really great. 
October, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
THE FOUR HORSEMEN ^^^'^-^^ 
"ry^HE FOUR HOESEMEN" of 
I Notre Dame will live long in 

•*• the annals of football. They made up the most remarkable back­field in the history of the game when one considers their ability, individual­ly and as a unit. During the period in which they performed for Notre Dame sports writers throughout the country sang their praises, eulogizing their master coach, Rockne, and some­times even waxing poetic. It was Grantland Rice, one of the most ac­complished and learned sports writer of the day, who coined the title, "The Four Horsemen"; and needless it is to say that this man, through his newspaper articles and comments, did a great deal in establishing the fame of this great backfield quartet in the East. 
When Stuhldreher, Miller, Layden and Crowley started on their college careers at Notre Dame, only Stuhl­dreher and Crowley performed in the positions on the Freshmen team which they were to occupy in their succeeding three years on the varsity. Don Miller played fullback in his Freshman year, and Layden, destined to become the outstanding fullback in the country, played at left half throughout the season. Few, with the 
H.. 
exception of those intimately con­nected with Notre Dame athletics, knew anything of the great promise of development which these four men showed in the fall of 1921. 
Three of the "Four Horsemen," distinguished themselves in varsity sports at Notre Dame when they were not busy with their activities on the gridiron. "Sleepy Jim" Crowley, re­nowned in the North Country for his fancy skating, played on the 1921 Hockey team. He confined his efforts to the limited space permitted a goal tender, but scores of the games he participated in tell the story of Crowley's work better than could mere words. True to his nature, the nature which gained for him the nick­name, "Sleepy," Jim did a lot of lean­ing on the back of the goal but he was always able to resurrect himself when danger threatened. 
Layden and Miller showed promise as candidates for varsity basketball during part of the 1922-23 season, but were forced to discontinue when the schedule was only half played, Layden because of sickness. Miller having a bone broken in his hand during a game with Indiana. 
Layden, Crowley and Miller, it is interesting to note, were all members of the Corby Interhall Track cham­pion team of 1922. Layden also pitched for Corby's baseball team in the spring of that year, while Crowley played in the infield. Layden also made a name for himself on the track team of 1923 and 1924. In 1923 he ran the 100-yard dash for Notre Dame, and against the Michigan Ag­gies clipped his time to 9:9-10 sec­onds. He was also active in the 220­yard dash. Elmer ran the 40-yard dash on the 1924 Indoor track team in creditable style, taking first place in meets on several occasions during the season. In the first indoor meet of the season, with Northwestern, he tied the gym record of 4:2-5 seconds, a record standing since 1910. 
"The Four Horsemen" received their first Baptism of fire during the crucial season of 1922. Graduation the previous year had wrecked a won­derful team. The result was that Notre Dame, great football school, and Knute Rockne, great football coach, faced a hard season with just a few experienced men, only one of whom had been a regular, and a flock of Sophmores. But what a flock of Sophomores! The team of that year won six of their eight games, tying one with the Army and losing the 
•iiii»niiiiiimm|«| 

HOTEL HOFFMANN HOTEL LASALLE HOTEL LASALLE ANNEX South Bend, Indiana  •0- Experienced in meeting the needs of Notre Dame Alumtii  
HOTEL FORT ARMSTRONG ^ock Island, Illinois  .J. KENNETH QUALLEY,—-'27, Resident Manager JOSEPH E. WHALEN—'29 , Assistant to Manager  
IIIMIIII)(tlMttl«MIMI  tllttltlltMIMMIMilltllMIIM Q  

THE NOTKE DAME ALTJMNUS October, 1930 
STUHLDREHER, LAYDEX, CROWLEY AND MILLER" 
final contest with the Nebraska Corn-huskers, 14-7. The Notre Dame elev­en averaged 173 pounds, and when such great men as Capt. Carberry, Castner, Lieb and Brown were out with injuries the supposedly green Sophomores were used in their stead. Among these Sophomores the famous "Four Horsemen" and "Seven Mules" saw plenty of action. Stuhldreher, Layden, Miller and Crowley composed the brilliant young backfield which performed that year. Layden and Crowley alternated at left half when Castner was in condition to play, but 
•ivhen the latter was forced out of the game ^\-ith injuries, Layden took his place at fullback. 
In 1923 the Notre Dame team won nine out of the ten games on the schedule. Again they bowed to the Nebraska Cornhuskers, 14-7, fof the only loss of the season. According to seasonal reports for 1923 the Irish eleven was so cocksure of winning every game that Rockne, as a precau­tion, limited his team to five simple plays in their second game against Lombard. -After very hard work and a mental reversal they won 14-0. Critics and fans were astounded. Dopesters picked Notre Dame to lose many games that fall. 
Viewed from all angles the Army game marked the zenith of the sea­son. The team was in perfect con­dition, and it had developed its me­chanics to the point where only a real game was needed to achieve the best work. Elmer Layden was the brightest star in a backfield that thrilled the spectators that day. He kicked on the average of fifty yards, ran the ends and plunged for first downs, passed successfully and re­ceived the pass from Stuhldreher over the goal line for the first touch­down. Stuhldreher introduced him­self to the East in efi'ective fashion as a brainy general, a passer and re­ceiver, and a defensive man of strength. Jimmy Crowley, lying 

dormant for a period, flashed like a meteor in the final quarter, when he intercepted a pass, returned through a broken field for thirty-five yards, and followed immediately with a seventeen yard run that put the ball on the seven yard line, from which point Don Miller took it over in one big smashing thrust. 
In the next game with Princeton Eockne's running plays reached per­fection in the hands of the' "Four Horsemen." Don Miller and Layden executed Stuhldreher's plays in dashes which netted a seventy yard advance and a touchdown •\vithin five minutes. Jimmy Crowley made quick stabs in the second and third quarters which netted great yardage. At another point in the game Layden intercepted a Tiger pass and ran forty yards for a score. Don Miller circled end later for twenty-two yards and the remain­ing counter. Princeton was powerless offensively and the only score they got came when Crowley's punt was blocked and the nimble Jimmy re­covered for a safety. 
Georgia Tech came to Cartier Field 

and the invincible wonder team ran 
roughshod over the pride of the 
South, 34-7. Miller, with runs of 
eightj'-eight, sixty, and thirty yards, 
for touchdowns, and other splendid 
dashes, was sensational and began to 
earn his AU-American recognition. 
Stuhldreher returned a punt forty-
five yards and ^vith Crowley and 
Layden played a fine brand of foot­
ball. 
In the Homecoming game the next 

week. Miller again starred in the 34-7 
victory. Crowley was colorful, and 
Layden began to take a more active 
part in his own versatile way. 
Then came Nebraska. The sensa­tion of the year developed when the Huskers won, 14-7. Notre Dame had a superior team, but over-confidence proved their downfall. Stuhldreher Was forced to make almost constant use.of the pass as his running plays were stopped cold. Fifteen out of 
I  October, 1930  THENOTREDAMEALUMNUS  93  
1  
4  =  •  '  .  •  .  •  •  '  •  •  •  .  '  

NOTRE DAME 
WE ARE ALL FOR yOU! 
MAY OUR FACE- BRICK USED IN YOUR NEW 
STADIUM and DINING HALL 
BE 

EVERLASTING - EVER BEAUTIFUL 
BRAZIL CLAY COMPANY BRAZIL, INDIANA 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS October, 1930 
thirty-three passess attempted were completed for a gain of one hundred and eighty-five yards and the only touchdown the Irish were able to make. Layden made a splendid at­tempt for a tying score when he leaped over the goal line for a pass, but his feet slipped and he fell, the ball just touching his fingers. Stuhl­dreher was the only man to play the entire game, and he proved himself the hero of the affray by putting over the only Notre Dame touchdown, using a team of second and third string men. 
Notre Dame • won the rest of her games on the 1923 schedule and the "Four Horsemen" received universal acclaim. Denis Mulligan, captain of the strong West Point team of that year, expressed himself most admir­ably: "I've lain awake nights pajang 
. silent tribute to what I consider the most polished football eleven it has been my fortune—sad though it was —^to witness in action. 
The wonderful season of 1924 brought the championship of the United States to Notre Dame. The season opened against Lombard, and Notre Dame's followers were anxious to see what the prospects for a good team were. "There were rumors abroad that the Irish were not what they had been in the past. It was thought that there was not enough reser\-e strength to support the light but veteran first team. Opinions of the fans were changed after this first game, however, as Eockne put a sec­ond team on the field that would have tested the strength of many first class college elevens. 
A cartoon appeared that season which depicts the great power of the "Four Horsemen" very well. The picture is that of four moleskin-clad figures seated on the backs of four horses. The horses, with giant' heads and hoofs, were made to appear as though they were galloping across a plain at a terrific speed. In their van were five football players, bearing the pennants of Nebraska, Georgia Tech, Wisconsin, Princeton, and the Army, all of whom were depicted lying on the ground unconscious. In the path of the "Four Horsemen" stand Wei­necke and Baker, two Northwestern stars in 1924, looking as though they were determined to stop the advance of Stuhldreher, Layden, Miller and Crowley at any cost. In their hands they hold pitifully small fishing nets and a vivid comparison is made of the greatness of the "Four Horsemen" and the weakness of the two North­western men. As it happened, how­ever. Northwestern actually threw a great scare into the Notre Dame camp, and the Irish eleven just man­aged to eke out a victory, by a mar­gin of one touchdown, over their s'ubbom Purple opponents. 
Late in October of 1924, after the Army game, Grantland Rice wrote an article relating to the "Four Horse­men." It was Rice who coined the phrase, "The Four Horsemen," the title with which every football fan is well acquainted. The following is the memorable lead quoted from Rice's news-article after the .A.rmy game: "Outlined against a blue-gray Octo­ber sky the "Four Horsemen" rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destnic-
A 1924 CARTOON 

October, 1930 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
tion and death. These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhl­dreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before which another fighting Army team was swept over the precipice at the Polo grounds this afternoon as. 55,000 spectators peered down upon the be^vildering panorama spread out upon the green plain below." 
Although the "Four Horsemen" are lost to Notre Dame, they still are to be found following the football coaching profession. Stuhldreher is head coach at Villanova; Layden is head coach at Duquesne University; Crowley after spending some years as assistant coach for another Notre Dame man, Harry Mehre, now^ oc­cupies the position of head coach at Michigan State; Miller, who started his coaching career as assistant to Alexander at Georgia Tech, trans­ferred to Ohio State, where he now_ coaches the backfield. 
Wherever the "Four Horsemen" played they created a sensation. People wondered how such a light backfield could withstand the terrific batterings they received from heavier opponents and still go on to win. But, as usual, science again proved supe­rior to physical strength. The smooth­ness and skill with which these four men played endeared them to foot­ball followers East, West, South, and 

North. There has never been a back-der if there is never ag^ain "sneh a field of the high quality of the "Four great combination playing together Horsemen," and it will be small won­on the gridiron. 
PAT 0'SHEA--FAN By F. J. McKeever 
There are fans and there are fans. Notre Dame has an assortment of these all over the United States. Most of them have never seen the school they shout for as they sit in a large stadium, tune in on their radio, or read the Sunday papers. The sub­ject of this article is not one of these, since he lives here on the campus. Meeting this true fan was very easy. It happened at the opening ball game at Cartier Field, when 'Lefty' Moran came to the plate for the first time. During the loud pleadings of the Notre Dame baseball public to its idol for a base hit, we heard from our left that, "This kid Moran can pole them out." Being true bom reporters and having our pencil back of our ear and paper in every pocket in the approved style we turned to see what could be gleaned for the press. There beside us was a man well over six feet in height stretched out on one of the in­adequate seats of the bleachers. The six feet of man was covered with blue overalls from his neck to his shoes. The face was rather weather beaten and covered with very white whiskers, matching perfectly a very white head. 
The eyes were different, being large and shining. They pierced us, not making us feel uncomfortable but rather at ease; they were kind and befriending. We got on pretty good terms and he introduced himself as "Pat O'Shea — just another Dutch­man." It wasn't long until Pat had told us plenty interesting tales of Notre Dame baseball. 
"You must be quite a Notre Dame fan, Pat." 
"Well, I haven't missed a baseball, football, basketball game or track meet since I came here and that was 1902. I was here for a little while in 1900 but I left. Before I came here, I fired on the Southern K. R. from Washingrton to Delfield, Va., and I'm still firing," said he as he lit a bowl full of Five Brothers, in a large pipe held together by a stout piece of wire expertly twisted around some weak points. "After that," continued Pat, "I joined the Navy and fired for a change. I was down on the Marble-head, a flagship for Dewey when we knocked down the gates of San Juan Hill with our 13" guns. When I came here I fired some more down at the 
A CATHOLIC FAMILY MAGAZINE 
 relisious weekly is more widely circulated than 
N
O 

TMIC Bit MMk . It enters the best homes, and is read by the best people. 
The Staff of Contributors includes many of the foremost American and English authors. 
Subscriptions $3.00 per year,- single copy, 10 cents 
TMC a/a mmm 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

illMlllilllitltinMIII IllllllitI MUMttlMtlllitlllMli* tllitill 
QniiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiitiiiiiiiMiii iiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiDiiiDiiiiiiiiilii' 
-John Hancocl^ Series ­
Can she wait for the courts to decide? 

furnished him with his greatest thrill. It was when he caught a Boilermaker kickoff and zigzagged his way for a touchdown. The next biggest thrill Pat ever had was when Mohardt dove over the Comhusker's line for the his lack of weight he had quite a time making the team, but he was a mem­ber of the famous Western Champions of 1906. He coached Alma College, Michigan, for three years, and won the intercollegiate championship for 
Ji.Js the event of your death, the transfer of your funds or propert}' invohing your signature must be handled through the courts. Has your wife the ready cash to live on for an in­definite period, to say nothing of taking care of certain inevitable expenses, and other pressing ob­ligations? 
A way to prevent the sacrifice of some of the valuable holdings in your estate is to proride a fund, immediately available through a John Hancock life insurance polic}', sufficient to cover all con­tingencies. 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY^ 
OF BOSTON. MASSACMUSCTtS 
Inquirj- Bureau, 197 Cbrcndon Street 
Boston, Mass. Please send booUct, "This Matter of Success.*' 

heating plant, but 13 years ago they 
put me over to the Community House 
to putter there." 
"You must be getting right up in there, eh, Pat?" we asked. "Well, I'm 86 and still pretty stout and hearty yet." 
Pat remembered all the players since he came, it seemed. He said Moran compared favorably with Ken Williams while he was busting fences around here and Schrall the short­stop of two years ago looked like he might be a big timer some day. He knew the names of all the players on last year's squad and liked Sullivan the best of the new men. 
"What is your favorite sport," asked the inquiring reporter. 
"Football is now, it's lot better to watch than the other games. I like baseball too, used to play it quite a bit when I was your age but football is lots more interesting. We always used to lose to Illinois in track, may­be that's why I don't care for that much." 
George Gipp is Pat's favorite ath­lete. "He wasn't so speedy but he didn't have to be with the way he used his head and his hips. He sure could kick a ball too. He used to kid the other team to death and if they got sore it was just that much easier for George to get by them. Eockne was good, too. He used to play end, next to Big Miller, a tackle. They made a good pair—^Miller was strong as a horse and could use his elbows when he tore through, and Eockne was small and shifty, getting his man before he started." 
Pat's hero, Gipp, was the man who winning touchdown on fourth down after the big plunging backs had failed. 

Being 86 years old didn't stop Pat from going to Chicago twice this past year to see his adopted Alma Mater play Wisconsin and Southern Califor­nia, so we asked him what team he thought was the best he had ever seen. He told us that Gipp's team was good and last year's looked like they couldn't get beat •(vith a line like they had but he liked the '24 team the best. "They were more tricky and smoother, and the backfield was four well balanced players. This year's backfield had balance but man for man they weren't as good as the Four Horsemen. Elder was sure fast but Layden and Miller weren't slow." 
Pat is unlike most old timers in that he likes the modem open play better than the old massed formations and he thinks the players are just as tough now as they ever were, but the rules don't give them a chance to show it. Pat O'Shea left with a smile and we sat and wondered if we, when 86 was reached, would be real fans like Pat. 
COACHES BEFOEE EOCKNE 
(Continued from Pace 82) 

trainer of all sports at Notre Dame. Harper did preparatory work at Mor­gan Academy. In 1902 he entered the University of Chicago. Due to 
when you 30 to 
team play this Fall — 

the Wolverine State in 1908. He then coached at Wabash. Knute Eockne was the captain of Harper's 1913 football team, a team which had a logical claim on the Western Cham­pionship. Eockne in this year was chosen as all-Western end. Harper got the best schedule the school had ever seen so far, including South Dakota, Army, Penn State, and Texas. 
In 1914 Eockne began acting as as­sistant coach to Harper. He has a power of personal magnetism that at­tracts his men and makes them wil­ling to do their best. Harper was well satisfied with his assistant's work. As in 1913, Harper gave Notre Dame a schedule in 1914 that was second to none in the country. 
• Harper was a coach who possessed a firm, business-like attitude, and played no favorites. The knack of recognizing ability and the knowledge of the proper way to get the best ef­forts out of every man were the se­crets of coach Harper's success. He was the man who instituted the three-year eligibility rule at Notre Dame. He was also known for his enforce­ment of all rules of amateurism. Harper coached his last season of football in 1917. He had reached the pinnacle of his profession at an early age, so he decided to accept the call of circumstance, step down and follow the less precarious life of a farmer, becoming a rancher out West. 
Then in 1918 Knute K. Eockne be­came coach. .. . 
—+ 

 South Bend to see the 
 ride America's Fastest 
electric railway! Let who will join the snail 
pace automobile procession. 
Trains leave downtown Chicago, Randolph street I. C. station, every hour on the hour for downtown South Bend. Stops at Van Buren. 12th, 53rd, 63rd, 116th streets. Ample special service the days of Notre Dnme games at South Bend. Soldier Field, and Evanston. 
SOUTHJOREI 
Chicago South Shore & South Bend Railroad 








