The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 35 No. 1 
p-
February, 1957 
lv::\v:^RZ-TY OF 

i\'aiiio Sen. Kennedy 
•Patriot <»l the Year" 
-Senator Jolin F. Koniicdy of Massa­rlniselts has been naiiiod the recipient of the aiimial Patriotism .-Vwaici of .N'oiie Daiiie"s senior class. Kennedy, wlio fan a close second fof the Demo­cfatic vice-piesidential nomination, will accept the awaid and deliver a major address on cainiJiis. Feb. 22. 
Previous winners include FBI di­rector J. Edgar Hoover. Bishop Ful­ton J. Sheen, and Generiil Cairtis E. LeMay. head of the Strategic .Air Com­mand. The award was established in 
19.54 to honor "the outstanding patriot of the year who e.\emplifies the .Ameri­can ideals of justice, pei^onal integrity and service to country." The reci|)ient is determined by a ballot of Xotre Oaine's gradiiatinar seniors. 
James E. .Armstrong, '25 
- :-,oi Editor 
John N. Cackley, "37 Managing Editor 
LIBBARV 
:1 

Brennan Re-Engaged for '57 By Notre Dame Authorities 
Father Hesburgh Announces Board Decision 
In a release to the press on Jamiaiy ."). the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgii, C.S.C, president, announced the reten­tion of Terry Brennan as coach of the Fighting Irish for next fall. 
Father Hesbiirgh's statement was as lollows: "Coach li'iiy Brennan was engaged in 19.")4 on a verbal agreement for three years. Upon the recommen­dation of the Faculty Board in C'ontrol of .'Mhietics. we are now re-engaging 

Notre Oanic classmates of Rev. John J. Cavanaui;h. C.S.C., '23, presented a S500 check to the former university president in honor of the 25th anniversary of his ordination in 1931, ,Making the presentation (left to right) were John C. Norton, Chicago, 111,, cla-ss president; Louis V. Bruggner, South Bend, Ind„ secretary: Joseph W. ,\yikos. South Bend; and Louis .-\, DcSniel, Chicago, Father Cavanaugh accepted the gift "in behalf of all of the Hob-Cross priests of the 1923 graduating class" and said it would he assigned to the university's faculty development fund. 
him for ne.xt year. We are sure that the alumni and friends of Xotre Dame join us in wishing him all success," 
Rev. Edmund P, Joyce, C,S,C,, executive vice-president and chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Ath­letics, explained the "ne,xt year" ref­erence by Father Hesburgh meant "from Februaiy 1, 1957, to February 1, 1958," Father Joyce further stated, "In recent years it has been our general policy to retain all coaches on a year to year basis and when Tern' came in as head coach it was only fitting that he be given more than one year to establish himself," 
Will Retain Assistants 
Brennan thanked Father Hesburgh and declared, "I appreciate the con­fidence expressed in me, AVe'll do eveiything possible to return Notre Dame to her winning ways next sea­son," Teny added that he planned to retain all tnembers of his coaching staff. 
When Frank Leahy resigned on Januaiy 31, 1954, for reasons of health, 
Teriy Brennan was appointed to suc­ceed him as head coach, A fonner star Irish halfback under Leahy, Terry had an enviable record as head coach of Mt, Carniel High School in Chicago, He tutored the Notre Dame freshman .stiuad in 1953, In Brennan's first sea­son, his tcain won nine and lost one and he followed with an eight won-two lost record in 1955, Last fall, Notre Dame suffered eight losses and was victorious in only the Indiana and North Carolina games. 

RAYMOND W. DURST, '26 


Large Vote Recorded In Directors Election 
A record vote from membei-s of the Notre Dame Alumni Association has resulted in the election of four new directors who will ser\'e for three-year terms. Those who will be installed at the Board's winter meeting on Feh. 22-23, to be held on campus, are: Leo 
J. Vogel, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Ray­mond VV. Durst, '26, Chicago, 111'.: Jules K. De La Vergne, '33, New Or­leans, La.; and William E. Cotter, Jr., '41, Duluth, Minn. 
Joseph L O'Neill, Jr., '36, Midland, Te.\as, retiring president of tlie Asso­ciation, will be named honorarj* presi­dent for tlie current year. Other out­going officers include: John E. Mc­Intyre, '31, South Bend, Ind., first xdce­president; Robert H. Gore, '31, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., second vice-presi­dent; and James L. Ferstel, '48, Chi­cago, 111., third vice-president. 
Directors, who will serve until 1958 are: John W. Brennan, '27, Detroit, Mich.; J. Patrick Canny, '28, Cleve­land, b. ; Patrick J. Fisher, '36, Indi­anapolis, Ind.; and Joseph E. Whalen. '29, Des Moines, Iowa. Those members whose terms e.xpire in 1959 consist of Oscar J. Dorwin, '17, New York, N.Y.; Edmond R. Haggar, '38, Dallas, Te.\as: Eugene M. Kennedy, '22, Los Angeles, Calif.; and Francis L. "Mike" Layden, '36, Evansville, Ind. 
By an overwhelming majority of 3,241 votes in favor of a new Con­stitution to 88 against. Alumni Asso­ciation membere indicated their pref­erence on a special constitutional bal­lot. A copy of the proposed Constitu­tion was included with the mailing sent to alumni regarding nominees for the Board of Directors. 
The four new directors represent a substantial variation in class years ranrinar from 1917 to 1941. Thev hail 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 
from the deep south, the north and the 
midwest. Leo Vogel is head of his 
own company known as Interstate 
Equipment Corp. He helped to orga­
nize the Pittsburgh Alumni Club and 
ser\'ed as its first president in 1923-24. 
His son, Leo Jr., '49, is currently the 
president of the Notre Dame Alumni 
Club of Pittsburgh. Leo Sr., won two 
monograms in track at N.D. 
Ray Durst was formerly president of Hallicrafters Co., and retired during the past year. He also ser\'ed as presi­dent of the 1926 class during the past five years and has been active in alumni club affairs in Chicago. Jules De La Vei-gne is a leading architect in the south and designed the multi-million dollar railroad terminal in New Or­leans. He was president of his local alumni club for three years and at present is Notre Dame Foundation Governor for Louisiana. 
The Cotter family has been previ­ously represented on the Alumni Asso­ciation Board of Directors—William Sr., '13, was national president of Notre Dame men in 1937-38. Bill Jr., is assistant to the vice-president in charge of operations at U. S. Steel's Oliver Mining Division in Duluth. In 1953­54 he was selected to participate in the Sloan Fellowship Program at Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology. 
The entire Board, including retiring members, will convene at Notre Dame for a two-day session beginning on Febmary 22. They will be special guests at the Notre Dame Student Body's presentation of the "Patriot of the Year" award to Sen. John F. Ken­nedy on AVashington's Birthday. 
JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 

Harry G. Hogan Retires From Fort Wayne Bank 
Harry G. Hogan, '04, former presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation and first National Chainnan of the Notre Dame Foundation, retired on Januar)' I as president and director of the Dime Tiiist and Savings Bank, Fort Wayne, Ind., after 35 years of service with that organization. His retirement closes the banking career 
of a man with more than just diversi­fied experience—for a half-century he has been a lawyer, businessman, banker and an active participant in civic and political affairs. 
Following his discharge as a first lieu­tenant in World War I, he was county attorney for several terms. In 1951 Notre Dame awarded him an honorary 

11 doctor of laws degree. He was the first chairman of the diocesan Board of Govemoi-s of the Catholic Youth Or­ganization which he organized under the direction of the late Archbishop John F. Noll. Mr. Hogan planned the present Veterans Aid Commission in Fort Wayne which, under his chair­manship seived membei-s of the armed forces and their families in tiiat area during World A\'ar II. 
His dynamic leadership played a major I'ole in the Organization of the 
-Notre Dame Foundation 10 yeai's ago! The program, now under the director­ship of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has been e.xtremely successful in securing financial support for the Uni­versity from alumni, corporations, foundations and non-alumni friends. He planned a long-range program for 
.the Foundation and established Stale Governors and City Chairmen in more than 200 localities in the U. S. 


Emiiiers' Province Divided Into 3 Administrative Units 
The United States Brothers' Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross is divided into three new administrative units as of November 1st in accordance with the decree of the General Chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross which was held at Rome in July of this past year. As announced by the Ver\' Reverend Christopher J. O'TooIe, C.S.C., Superior General, this division is necessitated by the growth of the Brothers of Holy Cross throughout the United States, with a present member­ship of 739 professed Brothers and 93 Novices, and the consequent problems of direction and administration. The division will establish a Midwest Prov­ince with headquarters at Notre Dame, a South-West Vice Pro\'ince with head­quarters at St. Edward's University, Austin, TcNas, and an Eastern Vice Province with headquarters at Holy Cross High School. Flushing, New York. 
In this countiy the Brothers of Holy Cross conduct one Liberal Arts College, 19 high schools, 4 Elementary Schools, and 4 Homes for Boys. Outside of the 
U. S. they conduct the Notre Dame International School for Boys in Rome, Italy, the Ginasio Dom Amando at Santarem, Brazil, and 6 high schools in the Archdiocese of Dacca, East Pakistan. These thirty-six educational institutions care for 16,183 students. The Brothers also staff and operate five houses for the training of their younger members. As an auxiliary to their educational work, the Brothere . conduct a fourteen hundred acre farm with a registered herd of 80 Holstein milk cows. They also aid in the staffing and operation of the Ave Maria Press and the Post Office, both at Notre Dame. During the summer months the Brothers operate Holy Cross Camp, Waveland, Miss., Notre Dame Camp, Lawton, Mich., and the Gilmour Acad­emy Day Camp, Gates Mills, Ohio. 
The Brothers of Holy Cross operate two scholasticates in connection with their teacher training. Dujarie Hall is located at Notre Dame, and Vincent Hall is at St. Edward's University, Aus­tin, Texas. St. Edward's offers a four year liberal arts training program with boardinar as well as dav school facili­ties. The academic program at St. 
Edward's embraces Catholic training in 
the cultural arts and sciences. It is not 
a large university; hence, quite capable 
of offering individual attention to all 
students, scholastics as well as lay. 
Since 1885, when the first collegiate 
charter was granted by the State of 
Texas, St. Edward's has tried to fulfill 
its goal as a liberal arts school. 
Brother Donatus Schmitz, C.S.C., 
who was named Provincial of the 
United States Brothers Province last 
July remains as Provincial of the Mid­
west Province which will have 361 
Professed Brothers, 41 Novice Brothers 
and the instruction of 8,026 students. 
Brother John Baptist Titzer, C.S.C, is 
the head of the South-West Vice Prov­
ince while Brother Ephrem O'Dwyer, 
C.S.C, will be in chaige of the Eastern 
Vice Province. 
Heisman Trophy Awarded To Ail-American Hornung 
Paul Hornung, Notre Dame's bril­
liant quarterback, was awarded the 
John AV. Heisman Memorial Trophy, 
symbolic of the "nation's outstanding 
college football player of the year," in 
New York City on December 12. 
He is the first player from a losing team to be elected to the Heisman Hall of Fame since Jay Bcrwanger received this honor at the University of Chicago 21 years ago. More than 1,300 foot­ball e-xperts including writers and sportscasters cast ballots in the 1956 poll. Hornung received a total of 1,066 points in the voting. John Majors of Tennessee placed second with 994 points and Tom McDonald-of Oklahoma was third with 973. 
Hornung is the fifth Notre Dame player to win the Heisman Award. The first was Angelo BertelH of the 1943 squad followed by Johnny Lujack in '47, Leon Hart in '49 and Johnny Latt­ner in '53. Hornung was the starting quarterback for Coach Terry Brennan in the East-West game and later par­ticipated in the Hula Bowl contest in Honolulu. He will graduate from Notre Dame's College of Commerce this coming Jime. 

RCA SCHOLARSHIP WON BY NOTRE DAME STUDENT 
Michael H. Halloi-an. a 21-year-old senior in physics at Notre Dame, is one of 29 students tliroiighom the United States to win an RCA Scholarship for the ciinent academic year. Halloran. who resides at 5'MO Fletcher Street. Chicago, Illinois, is the fifth recipient of the Frank M. Folsom Scholarship at Notre Dame, established in honor of the President of RC.-\. .\ generous benefactor of Notre Dame. Mr. Folsom is a member of the university's .-\dvis­
oiy Council for Science and Engineer­ing. He received an honoraiy Doctor of Laws degree from Notre Dame in 1956. 
The RC.-\ Scholarships, totaling .S22,400 this year, are pan of the Cor­poration's -SI 17.900 scholarship and fellowship progi-am xvhich wa.s estab­lished twehe yeai's ago. .Since 194.T. more than 280 students have been as­sisted in their college education by the RCA. .Awaids. 
Under a new provision of RC.A's aid-lo-education program, the Corporation also is making an unrestricted contri­bution of .S.iOO to independent colleges or universities tnaintaining RCA Schol­aislnps. 
The awards enable undeigraduate students to continue their studies in sci­ence, industrial relations, dramatic arts and music—fields related directly to the electronics and broadcasting industries. 
Benefactions for a .scholarship have been received annually by Notre Dame from Radio Corporation of .America for many years. Other scholarship winners, in addition to Halloran. who have been students at the University, include Ken­neth G. Stead. Jr., in 19.")3 and -Arnold 
P. .Stokes the following vear. 
ALUMNUS Magazine Vol. 35, No. I 
February, 1957 Notre Dame, Ind. 

BRENNAN vs. SHAW 
The East-\\"est football classic, held in San Francisco and always one of the nation's more colorful posl-season grid attractions, featured not only two fine squads in this year's contest but also a "battle of strategv" between the respective head coaches of both teams — Teriy Brennan, who has just been re­engaged for the 19.i7 season by Notre Dame and Lawrence "Buck'" Shaw, head mentor of the U. S. -Air .Academy eleven and a fonner Notre Dame football star. Terry tutored the East while Buck was in charge of the West team. Paul Hor-


JOIN THE 
nung was outstanding for the East and was aided in the backfield by Captain Jimmy Morse. The final 


MARCH OF DIMES 
.score: West 7. East 6. 

IN JANUARY 

Supreme Court Justice John .M. Harlan (second from left), congratulates Xotie Dame law students Patrick J. Berrigan (second from right). Lcwiston. X. Y.. and K. AVaync Kent. Evansville, Ind., as winners of 7th annual Moot Court Competition of the Notre Dame Law School. Sharing the bench with Justice Harlan were Judge Charles E. Whittaker (extreme left). U. S. 8th Circuit Court of .Appeals, Kansas City, .Mo., and Judge Charles J. .McXaniec, U. S. District Court for Northern Ohio, Cleveland. 
ii 


_ _ _ ... _ ?l 

Entered as Second Clas.s matter j October 1, 1!):?!), at the Pest Ollice, .Votre Dame, Ind., undei- the act of August 24, 1!)I2. 

tiotre r.ia";e LiLrary Notre Dame. Indiana 
lietitni jioylciife i/uiintnffcd 




