The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 37 No. 4 October, 1959 
JAMES E. AR»ISTRONG, "ZS Editor 
JOHN F. LAUGHUN, '48 Managing Editor 
J 
•Administrative Changes Announced 


Foundation: 
FATHER CAVANAUGH GRANTED INDEFINITE LEAVE; FATHER WILSON IS NAMED ACTING DIRECTOR 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Iias been gi-anted an indefinite leave of 
bsence from his post as director of the Notre Dame Foundation and head of the University's $66,600,000 develop­
ij ment program it was announced recently by Father Hesburgh's office. Father Cava­naugh has been suf­fering from a chron­Cavanaugh ic vascular ailment. 
Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C, ad­ministrative assistant to Father Hes-burgh, has been named acting director of the Foundation, Notre Dame's fund­raising organization. He will coordi­nate all tlie University's public relations and development activities. 
Father Cavanaugh served as Notre fame' s president from 1946 to 1952, and he has been the University's princi­pal public relations and development officer since 1953. The Notre Dame Foundation, which he established dur­ing his presidency in 1947 and which he has actively led during the past six years, has received more tlian $30,000,­000 in gifts and grants. Fifteen major buildings have been erected on the campus since tlie Foundation was in­
augurated twelve years ago. 
Father John ^Vil­son, a native of Chicago, 111., was appointed adminis­trative assistant to the president of Notre Dame in 1958. Be­fore tlie appointment Fr. Wilson 

he had ser\'ed for two years as assistant director of the (Continued on back page) 

In Memoriam 
FRANK COMERFORD WALKER, '09 
Lawyer, Philanthropist, Christian Statesman 
Eleven years ago, when Frank C. Walker received Notre Dame's Lactare Medal from Francis Cardinal Spellman, another future Cardinal, Bishop John 
F. O'Hara of BuiTalo,' characterized the recipient of America's most significant award to a Catholic layman as "an ideal husband and father, rearing a family energized by Catholic faith and made strong by Christian love," a man whose tremendous scr\'iccs to his country had a^ their "source and inspiration . . . your deep Catholic faith which you have lived in a spirit of humility and childlike obedience." 
When Mr. Walker died on September 13 Cardinal O'Hara came from Philadelphia to rejoin his friend, this time to preside at the funeral of Notre Dame's other most distinguished alumnus. Among close asso­ciates present were fonner President Harry S. Tnunan, former U. S. Postmaster General James A. Farley and Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, widow of the late Presi­dent. Representatives of Notre Dame included the 
(Continued on back page) 
Alumni Assoeiafiou: 

FR. THOMAS O'DONNELL APPOINTED AS ENVOY TO N.D. ALUMNI CLUBS 
The University has announced the appointment of Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell to a specially created alum­ni liaison post. He will travel widely in his new assignment, meeting at regular intervals with Notre Dame's 175 local alumni clubs in the 
U. S. and abroad. 
Father O'Donnell's duties as alumni fieldFr. O'Donnell 
coordinator will in­clude all the functions of a field secre­tary as outlined in recent recoimnen­dations of the Alumni Association Board of Directors. These will be chiefly organizational. He %vill confer with officers of the Notre Dame Clubs, advising them on problems of or­ganization and activity. He will also aid in the establishment of new alumni clubs requesting a charter from the Association. In these areas he will re­lieve Alumni Secretary James E. Arm­strong, whose responsibilities have be­come too numerous to permit exten­sive travel. 
The appointment of Father O'Don­nell is also expected to improve the already fine cooperation of alumni with other University departments, especially the Admissions and Place­ment offices. Efforts will be made to increase contact between distant alumni clubs and the corresponding geographical student organizations on the campus. 
A native Chicagoan, Father O'Don­nell was graduated from Notre Dame in 1941 and was ordained to the priest­hood in 1945 by Cardinal Cicognani, then serving as Apostolic Delegate to 
(Continued on back page) 


Alumnus salutes .. . 
This has been a big year for Thomas 
L. Hickey, Sr., a Notre Dame man of many facets. In August Soutli Bend contractors celebrated "Tom Hickey Day" in honor of his 50tli year as a builder, and his family planned a re­ception in his honor tliis fall. 
The testimonials recalled several re­markable facts. Mr. Hickey, president of Thomas L. Hickey, Inc., one of South Bend's oldest building contrac­tors, is not a Notre Dame alumnus in tile strictest sense but was elected to tile Alumni Association by acclamation in 1932. He sent six sons to Notre Dame: Thomas, Jr., '35; Louis, '37; Donald, '38; Gerald, '41; John, '44, and Joseph, '50. And his construction firm erected a number of campus buildings, particularly in tiie tiiirties. 
As if that weren't enough, Mr. Hickey is perhaps die foremost unre­lated audiority on tiie late Knute Rockne, having been a next-door neighbor for many years. His claims as a builder are reinforced by tiie fact tiiat a grandfatiier was among tiie citi­zenry helping Fatiier Sorin's small band of settiers to construct their first college buildings. 
The jubilee celebrations are only further recognitions of Mr. Hickey, frequentiy honored for his work witii Rotary, tiie Boy Scouts, etc. His many appearances before the alumni clubs testify to liis regard as a Notre Dame man. 
It is also perhaps the most de­cisive year in tiie life of Dr. Thomas Dooley, '48. 
This year the overrunning of liis 

beloved Laos by North  
Vietnamese invaders,  
Laotian  Communist  
guerrillas and  agents  
of  Red  China  has  
underUned  and  dra­ 
matized  his  mission  
of mercy to the peo­ 
ples  of  Soutiieast  
Asia, described in his  
books.  Deliver  Us  »'• Dooley  
from  Evil  and  Edge  of  Tomorrow.  

Newsman John Daly has profiled him as "The Splendid American" in a widely hailed telecast And this is the year that Dr. Dooley discovered a chest cancer, melanomia, which may cut shorter his young and dedicated life. 
To Tom Dooley, headed back to em­battied Laos, a salute as one of the sons of which Our Lady is most proud. 
EXPRESS YOURSELF 
The Christopher News Notes for Alay, 1939, point out that people are often justified in wiiting letters of pro­test "when taxes are skyrocketing; edu­cation is falling short of its goals; en­tertainment is lacking in good taste or labor or business is overstepping its bounds." Because, as beneficiaries of Notre Dame training, you should be a part of the effective use of this medium, the ALTJMNUS would like to digest the suggestions which the "Notes" list for effective letters: 
1.
 Be objective. Stick to the truth. 

2.
 Think things through. 

3.
 Write promptly, don't delay. 

4.
 Be specific, not vague. 

5.
 Look for the good points. 

6.
 Show Christian charity. 

7.
 Be constructive, not destructive. 

8.
 Be fair about it. 

9.
 Be reasonable. 

10.
 Seek the good of all. 

11.
 Make it your letter. Be yourself. 


13.
 Be cheerful. 

14.
 Be neat and brief. 


13. Include everything . . . don't ex­pect someone to read between the lines. 
You can have a lot of influence in many quarters by following these sug­gestions — and should! 

REQUIESCANT 

The past two months saw tiie deatlis of two prominent non-alumni members of tiie Notre Dame family. 

Bernard C. Barth 

On September 22 Bernard Barth, general manager of WNDU-TV and -AM, the campus television and radio stations, died of leukemia after an ill­ness of several months. He had man­aged the Notre Dame stations for five years and was a veteran of 23 years in radio and television as an announcer, newscaster, writer, producer and pro­gram director. Bom and educated in South Dakotaj he had been employed by stations all over the U. S. and came to tiie University from Station WLW, the Crosley radio and television net­work center in Cincinnati. Known to every one as "Bemie," he was active in civic, religious and charitable enter­prises in South Bend. His widow, Mrs. Kathleen Barth, and six children survive. 

Eugene Kormendi 

An artist in residence and teacher at Notre Dame for 17 years, internation­
ally famous sculptor Eugene Kormendi 

died in Washington, D. C , after heart attack in mid-August Proir t Kormendi, a native of Budapest, Hungary, came to the U. S. in 1939 and stayed on at tiie invitation of the University when tiie Nazis invaded his homeland. Equally acclaimed for his heroic statues in monuments through­out tile world and for his portrait sculptures (of tiie late Pope Pius XII, former President Harry Truman, etc.)^ Prof. Kormendi is sur\'ived by hia^ widow, Elizabeth, a painter and cera­mic artist 
SOPHOMORES DOMINATE FOOTBALL STATISTICS 
Sophomore backs Gerry Gay and George Scfcik placed tiiemselves amonaj the statistical leaders on the Notre' Dame football team after the first tiiree games of 1959. 
Gray, a fullback from Baltimore, Md., was the leading ground-gainer for tile Irish with 102 yards in 20 carries. Sefcik, a pint-sized halfbaack at five­foot-eight and 170 pounds, was second in rushing with 87 yards in 14 carries, led in punting witii a 36.7 average fc^ 14 punts, led in punts-returned witir^ four for 95 years and in number of passes-caught witii four for 46 yards. Gray's average was 5.1 yards per carry and Sefcik's 6.2 per carry. 
Anotiier sophomore, Les Traver, was tiie leading pass receiver yardagewise witii 72 yards and one touchdown on three receptions. Senior Monty Stickles was second in tiiis department witii 6 ^ yards gained on three receptions. 
The scoring department found senior fullback Jim Crott)' in tiie lead with 18 points on tiiree touchdowns while Bob Scarpitto, junior right halfback, has two touchdowns. 
Angelo Dabiero, sophomore halfback, paced the kickofTs-retumed statistic with four for*70 yards and junior halL­back Ray Ratkowski was tiie leader iir pass interceptions with one for 43 yards and a touchdown. Sefcik also had two interceptions good for 20 yards re­turned. 
In the passing department, senior quarterback Don White completed 18 of 40 attempts for a percentage of .450. He gained 253 yards and had only three passes intercepted. Sophomora, George Haffner was second behintr White witii six completions in sixteen attempts for 90 yards and a touch­down. 


Entrance Exams at Notre Dame 
by Robert J. Waddick, '51 
In 1954 the University of Notre Dame began requiring tliat all enter­ing freslmien take the College En­trance Examination Board Tests. The questions which parents and students most frequently ask are: 

^ 1. What are the CEEB tests? 
2. How are the CEEB tests used at Notre Dame? 
We shall attempt to answer these questions. 
The College Entrance Examination Board Tests are perhaps the best known activity of the College En-

A°ance Examination Board, a non-pro­fit membership association composed of college and sciiool representatives. The purpose of tlie tests is to supply objec­tive information to the college con­cerning the students potential for work at the college level of study and his backgi'ound in a variety of areas. This information can be used by the college for admission, counseling, and place­
ment of students in class sections. 
The CEEB tests consist of two ax­aminations, a three-hour Scholastic Aptitude Test (commonly referred to as the SAT test) and a series of one hour Achievement Tests in various subjects. They are administered six times annually throughout tlie coim­try by Educational Testing Service. 

The Scholastic Aptitude Test has ^v o sections. Verbal and Mathematics, and is a test of reasoning ability. The test is predictive by nature and looks ahead to what the student is likely to do in his college studies. The Verbal section answers the question: "What is the student's potential for reasoning witli words?" The Mathematics sec­tion answers the question: "What is jhe student's potential for reasoning ^t h numbers?" Insofar as possible the test is independent of background in a particular area such as English or Mathematics, but we have found that poor Reading Speed, Comprehension, 
(Ed. Note: Owner of bachelor's and master's degrees at Notre Dame, Bob 

Roddick is an assistant professor of education and a counselor in the De­partment of Testing and Guidance.) 
and Vocabulary can adversely affect the student's score on the Verbal sec­tion. 
The Achievement Tests look back in that they are a measure of background of achievement in English, Social Stu­dies, Foreign Languages, Sciences, and Mathematics. The test scores are par­ticularly valuable because they give the college an objective picture of achieve­ment in a particular subject regardless of the geographical area in which the student received his secondary educa­tion. 
At Notre Dame the CEEB test re­sults are used as a tool. They are not the "absolute criteria" for admission that many people seem to feel that tliey are. The prospective student's Hiah School record is still the most important factor in admission to the ­University. What was the student's rank in his graduating class? What opinion of the student did his principal and faculty have? What were the stu­dent's extracurricular activities? When the Admission Officer answers these question and others, he is well on the way to either accepting or rejecting the applicant. If the Admission officer 

combines this information with the results of the CEEB tests he can often form an even better picture of the stu­dent and can sometimes make sugges­tions to him which will assure proper placement The important thing to re­member concerning the use of the CEEB test results at Notre Dame is that they are used as a tool not as an end. 
Rites Mark Opening of 114tli Academic Year 
Self-Crificism Urged For Educational Growth 
Notre Dame's 118th academic year, featuring a record freshman class, be­gan September 24 for 6,000 students assembled from all tlie United States and many other nations. 
At rites marking the University's for­mal opening, Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president for academic; af­fairs, warned that Catholic education, if it is to remain alive and healthy, must be ready to engage in self-cri­ticism. 
Speaking at a Solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church, Father Soleta said that Catliolic educators "have been in-
Watch for . . . 




what America stands for 
Vol. 1. No. I of 

the sublime TRADITION 
in ihe next ALUMNUS 

, clined to turn from all criticism as if it were subversive. As a result," he said, "we have seldom really listened to others outside the Church and out­side Christianity who spoke of con­temporary problems or of eternal prob­lems in a contemporary setting. Con­sequently, we have lost many oppor­tunities for intellectual growth and 
• relevance." Five hundred Notre Dame faculty members, priests and laymen, marched in a colorful academic procession from the Administration Building to the church for the rites. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., acting president of the University, was the celebrant of the Mass. He was assisted by Rev. George Bernard, C.S.C., vice-president for stu­dent affairs, deacon; Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president for busi­ness affairs, sub-deacon, and Rev. Ray­
mond F. Cour, C.S.C., master of cere­monies. 
Notre Dame's president. Rev. -Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., who usually officiates at the formal opening of the school year, was attending the third general conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna as the representative of Vatican. 
Foundation 
FRANK COMERFORD WALKER (continued) 
Mass celebrant, Father Joyce, and University Trustees John P. Murphy and Joseph M. Byrne, Jr. 
Throughout his years as a public sen-ant — as presidential adWsor, U. S. Postmaster General, U.N. representative, etc. — and during his legal and business careers, Mr. Walker was honored by many American universities and performed great services for many more. But no relationship was closer than with Notre Dame. Thrice recognized by Alma Mater — with a law degree in 1909, first of many honorarj- doctorates in 1934, and the Laetare Medal in 1948 — he ser^•ed the University as an officer of the Alunmi iVssociation, lay trustee and a pioneer chainnan of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Mr. Walker was born in Plymouth, Pennsylvania, but moved west with his father, a mine operator, at an early age, attending Gonzaga University in Spokane, ^\'ash., before coming to Notre Dame. After graduation he set up law practice with his brother in Montana, worked three years as an assistant county attorney before being elected to the Montana Legislature. In 1914 he married Hallic Boucher of Butte. Mrs. \Valker survives, along with a son, Thomas; a daughter, Mrs. Laura Jenkins, and nine grandchildren. 
Mr. Walker served as a first lieutenant in the American Expeditionary Forces during World War I. In 1925 he moved to New York as vice-president and general counsel of a theater chain, while practicing independent corpora­tion law. He became a friend of Franklin Roosevelt and Jim Farley and in 1932 was named treasurer of the Democratic National Committee. President Roosevelt appointed him executive secretarj* of his 1933 President's Executive Council or "super cabinet," and subsequently as executive director of the National Emergency Council, set up to coordinate the government's attack on the depression. He served with a quiet, friendly efficiency which led to his appointment in 1940 to succeed Mr. Farley as Postm.ister General of the United States. Until his resignation in 1945, after President Roosevelt's death, he distinguished himself in several unique achievements: development of the gigantic V-Mail program, which sped countless millions of letters to U. S. scr\icenicn around the world during \Vorld War II; temporarily successful efTorts to ban salacious magazines from the mails; and most impressive, return­ing to the U. S. Treasury a surplus exceeding $169 million (more than the total of surplus postal revenue before or since), for which he received a special citation from Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau, Jr. During this period he also spent a year as Democratic National Chainnan. 
In 1946 President Trmuan appointed Mr. Walker an alternate delegate to the first United Nations General /Assembly sessions in London. He returned to his business interests, which included directorship for W. R. Grace & Co. and the Grace National Bank of New York. A Knight of Malta, active in the K. of C. and American Legion, he served as an officer or regent of several educational, civic and charitable institutions until his death. 
An exemplary Christian in all his undertakings, Mr. Walker was perhaps Notre Dame's most outstanding lay graduate. 
(Continued from first page) ^, 
Holy Cross Fathers' Office of Province 
Development, tlien engaged in plan­
ning for the new Moreau Seminar)'. 
In 1932 Father \Vilson was gradu­ated as a lawman from Notre Dame. He received a law degree from the Cliicago-Kent College of Law in 1934. Entering the Congregation of Holy Cross in the same year, he was or-^ dained to the priesthood in 1941. Ho'-'' has ser\'ed the Holy Cross Fathers as a director of vocations and as promo­tion and advertising director of the popular youth publicatioUj The Cath­olic Boy. 
Alumni Association 
(Continued from first page) » 
the United States. After a brief period with the Holy Cross Mission Band he joined the Faculty of Holy Cross Col­lege, ^Vashington. D. C, meanwhile receiving a master's degree in theater arts from Catholic University. Active in radio and television, he has also written for various religious publica­tions and was the author of Greetings, a liumorous but practical pamphlet fc;^. young Catholics about to enter mili­tary service. 
In 1953, after serving for a year as associate editor of the. Catholic Boy magazine, Father O'Donnell became assistant to the director of the Notre Dame Foundation and subsequently was named associate director. In his new capacity as ambassador to the Notre Dame Club system he will wril ^ a column for the ALUJINUS. 

PLEASE RESPOND PROMPTLY TO YOUR GENERAL ALUMNI SELF-STUDY SURVEY! 
ALUMNUS Magazine Entered as Second Class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, 
Vol. 37, No. 4 
Notre Dame, Ind., under the act r ^ 


October, 1959 
August 24, 1912. '• 

Notre Dame, Ind. 
Return postage guaranteed 




