The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. IV Contents for January, 1926 No. 4 
"Singing Irish" Schedule Two Tours 99 A Breath of The Notre Dame That Was ; 101 Hon. Edmond H. Moore, L.L.D., '25, Dies 102 Editorial 105 Band and Glee Club Record for Victor 109 Athletics Il l Notre Dame's Art Galleries 119 The Alumni 121 The Alumni 89 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5:00 include a year's subscription to The Alumnus. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All corrcs-­pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
JAMES E. ARMSTKONG, '25, Editor 
The Alumni Association — of the — 
University of Notre Dame 
Alumtii Headqitartcrs: 232 Administration BUg., Notre Dame. Alfred C. Ryan, '20, General Secretary. 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. M. L. MORIARTY, '10 Honorary President WILLIAM P. MCPHEE, '90 President DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, '05 Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WARREN A. CARTIER, '87 Treasurer THOMAS J. MCKEON, '90 Director JOSEPH M. HALEY, '99 Director JOHN P. MURPHY, '12 Director EDW. C. MCHUGH, '13 Director 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
Prom teft to RUht Top Row 
S. Fuean 
V. Carney 
C. RcKnn 
F. WiiBner J, Lcnihun 
R. Dixon 
W. Dcoley 
F. HuKcnbarth 
R. McNuniui'a il, AdumH 
T. Cir.cy 
n. Sturm A, Kopceky % 

Second Row From Top 
J. Grifflh 
J. Mascnich 
J. Curtis 
J. IjinKton 
J. WootI 
C. Oohoa 
R. Wehs 
C. Shclunolicy 
P. Crciulon 1'. Drudy 
10. Flynn 
T. Walsh 
K. I.owth 
Third Row From Top 
J. Gin/, 
S. Bower 
T. Fcrritor 
H. Lynsltey 
F. Sohroeder 
C. Uontempo 
T. Hart 
J. IJiady 
E. Uyan Jos. Griflln 
IVI.
 Farrell 

T.
 O'Malley 

J.
 Reidy 



Fourth From Top 
W. Mahin • .7. HarrinBton 
A. HiRhberKcr 
J. Harriisan 
V. Ducey }'. Loprcati 
W. Corcoran 
E. Krcnnnn 
J. Cusick 
F. Pfoi'tner 
V. SoisBon Ci. MeDermott 
Fifth Row 
J. Prelli 
C. Flanagan 
E. Edwards 
V. Lemmer 
•I.
 Casasanta 

C.
 PitsenbcrKcr 

A.
 Haley 

A.
 Mulrcany 

A.
 Meyers .1. Butler 


ir 
"Singing Irish" Schedule Two Tours 
i_ 
Notre Dame's Glee Club, which last year made two triumphant tours through Michi­gan, Wisconsin, Ohio and Pennsylvanfa, besides concerts in more immediate regions, is preparing to invade new and farther fields. The quality of the music and the general success of last year's trips con­vinced University authorities that the con­certs are a decided credit to the University as well as a wholesome stimulus to the de­partment of music. 
Under the direction of Doctor J. Lewis Browne, Chicago choral director, and Joseph Casasanta, B. S. in Mus. '23, the Glee Club will make a tour through Ohio and Pennsylvania between the semesters. The dates already fixed call for appearances at Tiffin, O.; Chillicothe, 0.; Carnegie Hall in Pittsburgh; and Connellsville, Pa., on Feb. 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively. Negotiations ax-e pending for several concerts to fill out a week's trip but nothing definite has been arranged by Victor Lemmer, president. 
A second tour during the Easter holidays will be of wider scope and will carry the Club to the Atlantic coast. Concerts sched­uled to date include Pawtucket, E. I.; Ho­boken, N. J.; Binghampton, N. Y.; Milford, Mass., the home of Mr. Casasanta; Boston, Fall Eiver, and Lawrence, Mass. This is a tour that the club officers have had in mind for several years and the splendid record of the club, collectively and individu­ally, on the trips last year, resulted in the University's permission to plan the tour. 
Dr. Browne and Director Casasanta have organized a group of 60 men, chosen from 200 applicants this fall. This number per­mitted careful try-outs of the men's voices and the result is a finely blended chorus which renders a beautifully balanced pro­gram. John Butler, tenor, Lakewood, 0., and Alfred Meyers, bass. La Grande, Ore., are the soloists with the club this year. In addition to the two concert tours scheduled, it has been arranged for the Club to sing in the Auditorium theater, Chicago, on March 14, and they will appear at the com­mencement exercises of the De La Salle Institute in Chicago in June. There will also be the local concerts, St. Mary's, South Bend and Notre Dame. 
A number of specialties have been ar­ranged by the officers and directors of the club to vary the program. -Eugene Ed­wards, captain-elect of the football team, and Christy Flanagan, sensational half­back, are regular members' of the club and will appear in a specialty number. The Glee Club Quartet will hold its usual popu­lar place on the program. Ray McGrath, a vocal soloist and banjoist with Harry Denny's orchestra, will give a number of selections. He will appear in company with Joe Prelli, also a prominent football man, who has been a member of the Glee Club for three years and who will give a number of Spanish songs. Jack Curtis, violinist, and a member of Denny's orchestra on the European tour last summer, will round out the program of special numbers. 
The Glee Club, represented by a triple quartet, assisted the Notre Dame band in recording the "Victory March" and the "Hike Song" for the Victor company in Chicago last month. It has been unofficially reported that the records, made by the new orthophonic process, were, successful and ^vill be issued the latter part of this month. The opportunity to make these re'cords for Victor was presented to the Notre Dame organizations through the ef­forts of Mark Duncan, Ph.B. '15, Chicago, and Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, Litt. B. '16, in conjunction with the Elbel music company. 
Dr. Browne's reputation as a choral di­rector and composer is nation-wide. The Club's program last year featured several of his compositions and it is hoped that Dr. Browne's name will again appear among the composers of selections on the list. Joe Casasanta, a brilliant young gradu­ate of the Notre Dame music school, is also a composer. He was co-author with Vin­cent Fagan, '20, of the "Hike Song", and it is rumored that another stirring march is about ready for publication. Prof. Casas­anta has also directed the band's highly successful season this year. 
Under these two men the Glee Club is entering upon eager preparation for two trips which are expected to win unanimous pi-aise for the Club and, through them, for the University. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
LAY TRUSTEES MEET 
A. R. Erskine, South Bend, president of the Studebaker Corporation, was re­elected for a term of six years to the presi­dency of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame at the annual meting of that board last month. Mr. Fred Fisher, of Detroit, president of the Fisher Auto Body Corporation, was elected to fill the chair left vacant by the death of Max Pam. Mr. Solon 0. Richardson, Jr., presi­dent of the Richardson Company, dealers in investment securities, president of the Fifty Associates Co., and former vice-president of the Libbej' Glass Co., Toledo, was re-elected for a term of six years. 
Mr. Byron Kanaley, '04, of Chicago, and Mr. Daniel P. Murphy, A.B. '95, 
LL.B. '96, LL.M. '97, Rockaway, N. J., who were elected last June by the Alumni Association, took their seats at the meeting, thereby completing the Alumni personnel of six members. The other Alumni mem­bers are: James Dawson Callery, '20, old student of '73-'74, president of the Diamond National Bank of Pittsburgh and head of the traction company there; Angus Daniel McDonald, '13, old student 1896-1900, vice-president and controller of the Southern Pacific Railroad; Hon. War­ren A. Cartier, '87, prominent banker of Ludington, Mich., and treasurer of the Alumni Association; William P. Breen, '77, distinguished Fort Wayne lawyer. 
The other non-Alumni members of the Board are: Edward N. Hurley, member of the Reparation Fund commission, for­mer chairman of the United States Ship­ping Board; Francis Reitz, Miles W. O'Brien, and Clement C. Mitchell. Brother Florence, treasurer of the University, is secretary of the Board ex officia. The pur­pose of the Board is to handle the invest­ment and transfers of the endowment fund of the University. 
Since the meeting of the Board of Lay Trustees the University's building com­mittee, composed of Rev. Matthew Walsh, president of the University; Eev. George Finnigan, vice-president; Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, prefect of discipline; Rev. John McGinn and Rev. Thomas Steiner, has an­nounced the steps for erecting a new dining hall. The housing problem on the campus is being largely taken care of by the new freshmen group of Howard, Morrissey and Lyons halls, but this will only aggravate the present boarding problem and a new 
dining hall is practically imperative. Ralph Adams Cram, eminent Boston architect and the recipient of an honorary 
LL.D. in '24, was a guest of the University last month and inspected the possible sites on the campus with the building committee. No statement has been made concerning the selection of a definite site but it is probable that plans will be rushed through as soon as the spot is definitely chosen and that work will be begun as soon as possible. 
ALUMNI AUTHORS The Jan. 6 issue of The Commonweal, one of the leading Catholic reviews, contains a number of articles of special interest to Notre Dame alumni. "Nationalism as a Re­ligion" is the fourth of a series of articles by Prof. Carlton J. H. Hayes, LL.D., '21. Prof. Hayes also replies to a criticism of one of his earlier articles. 
"Ad Matrem, in Caelis" is a beautiful poem from the beloved Father Charles L. O'Donnell, 'OG, Provincial of the Congre­gation of the Holy Cross. Dr. James J. Walsh, Sc.D. '11, has written one of his clear and brilliant reviews of "Develop­ment of Our Knowledge of Tuberculosis", by Lawrence F. Flick. In his review Dr. Walsh states that "so much has been ac­complished in a single generation that the eradication of the disease seems to lie very near". The learned and genial Doctor de­livered one of his inspiring lectures before the student body in Washington Hall before the holidays, entitled "Is Life Worth Liv­ing?" 
Prof. George N. Schuster, A. B. '15, 
A. M. '20, contributed a fine review of "Pearl", by Sister M. Madeleva. Prof. Shuster, Dr. Walsh and Prof. Hayes are members of the Editorial Council of the Commonweal. Prof. Hayes, Dr. Walsh and Ralph Adams Cram, LL.D., '24, prominent Boston architect, are members of the Board of Directors of the Calvert Associates, pub­lishers of the Commonweal. 

THE OLD COLLEGE 
The following very interesting reminis­

cence of the early days of Notre Dame is 
taken from the diary of Thomas G. Wallin, 
one of the real "old students". It was sent 
to the University through George L. 
O'Brien, elected '23, who was a younger 
"old student". Mr. O'Brien received the 
interesting extract from Jerome Crowley, 
also a former student, a friend of Mr. Wall­
in's nephew. 
"In the autumn of 1846 father made a dicker with Father Sorin, president of Notre Dame college, (then just beginning) to give me half a year at the College and take a b^ack mare, his only horse, as S60.00 in pay­ment. A copy of my bill for that five months is among my relics. I had no overcoat, never had worn one, and I think but one coat of any kind and I have a recollection that was the coldest winter I ever experi­enced. A number of the boys had their feet and fingers frozen sitting in the study room. My feet were so swollen I could not get my boots on for some months. 
"But my recollections of the place are on the whole agreeable. I was well acquainted with the leading men who founded the insti­tution: Father Sorin, the Priest, Father Cointe, Father Gissi, Father Shaw, Brother Gatian, and some others whose names do not come to me were professors, most of them Frenchmen. 
"Father Shaw was an Englishman who fought at Waterloo and had a saber cut across the nose, and fonder of telling stories than giving lectures. The others were very Frenchy in speech and manners and very earnest devoted men. 
"I have never come in contact with Catho­lics before and my ideas and opinions about them were much changed and broadened for which I have been thankful all my life. 
"They (the professors) were great on languages and music and I have always re­gretted that I did not devote myself to French as it was a fine opportunity. More French than English was spoken even on the play ground. 
"My closest friends werei Engle from St. Joseph, Mich., and Gillespie from Lancaster, Ohio, a relative of the Sherman family. He was very restive when he came. Didn't want to come or stay. But he did stay and became vice-president of the College. (Rev. Neal Gillespie, a brother of Mother Angela, the founder of St. Mary's.) I knew all the boys there as we occupied the same study-room and dormitory, ate together and played together." 
Mr. O'Brien's letter adds that the names in Mr. Wallin's diary were often mentioned by Mr. O'Brien's grandmother and must have been in the first group that came over. 
102 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Hon. Edmond H. Moore, LL. D., '25 Dies 
Hon. Edmond H. Moore, LL.D., '25, who last year delivered the commencement ad­dress to the Class of 1925, died at Youngs­to^vn, Ohio, Sunday night, December 6, a few moments after he was suddenly strick­en with an attack of acute indigestion. He was buried in Youngstown on December 10. Mr. Moore was 64 years of age and apparently in good health. 
Mr. Moore, a member of the law firm of Moore, Barnuni and Hammond, was known as one of the ablest and most prominent lawyers in Ohio. At the age of 29 he was mayor of Youngstown and subsequently held other offices of public trust. For eight years, from 1912 until 1920, he was a member of the Democratic national commit­tee from Ohio. In that capacity he exercised wide in­
assisted in the salvation of human souls. "To cause two blades of grass to grow 
where one grew before; to barken and re­
spond to the cry of distress; to save a soul 
from despair; to contribute materially to 
the happiness of others, and thereby to one's 
own, is surely more in accordance with the true aim of life and with the Creator's plan, than selfishly to pursue the bubble, reputation, or, by devious methods, to amass all the wealth of Croe­sus." Mr. Moore's useful career, which seemed too short when view­ed from the re­sults that each added year of his wisdom might have brought, was certainly the 'practical applica­tion of the prin­ciples that were embodied in his forceful address to the graduates 
HDV. EDM3V0 H. MDJ.li of 1925. Clear 
fluence at the na­
tional conventions of the party. The class of 1925 heard from this vigor­ous and able lawyer in his splendid ad­dress last June that "Success, be it great or small, results whenever a formulated plan is carried to a favorable conclusion.  agree with Epicurus thus far: that the true aim of life is happiness; that there can be no happiness without virtue; and that ^ the real test of virtue is usefulness. "Any man is therefore successful in di­-rect proportion as he has lived a life of usefulness and has contributed to the sum of human happiness or human wisdom or 
vision and un­biased consideration made Mr. Moore one of the most influential men in educational and political spheres. His own refusal to seek for wealth or notoriety kept this in­fluence in the shadow and many of his less able contemporaries profited from the soli­dity of his opinions. Profited in their own eyes, for Mr. Moore lived the life of use­fulness and charity in the quiet way that he advocated to those who heard him last June, and the regard of the world was of little matter to him in the conduct of his affairs.—R.I.P. 
N. D. Dramatist Scores 
Notre Dame's dramtics are not as promin­ent on the campus as they were in the well known days gone by. But the old stars are still holding on to the soft hand of the Muse of the drama and there is no danger, from the latest reports, that Notre Dame will be left out of things dramatic. This outburst was occasioned by a letter from Harry Flannery, '23, which arrived too late for the December issue, enclosing news of the New York success of "12 Miles Out", a play by William Anthony McGuire, an old student. Besides many favorable quotations from the New York papers, this interesting paragraph appeared on the pro­gram : 
William Anthony McGuire wrote his first play, "The Walls of Wall Street", while at Notre Dame. It was produced at South Bend, Ind., with Allan Dwan, the movie director (also an old student), and young McGuire in the leading roles. The latter became dramatic critic of the South Bend News and promptly lost the job because he was not critical enough to suit the editor. His first Broadway production was "The Heights"', written as a starring vehicle for Frank Keenan. It lasted one week. Un­discouraged, young McGuire kept writing, turning out several plays in rapid succes­sion. His first big hit was "The Divorce Question" which played to records through­out the country but has yet to see New York. Then came "Six Cylinder Love", fol­lowed shortly after by "Kid Boots", in 

which Eddie Cantor took first Broadway and later the rest of the country by storm. "12 Miles Out' brings McGuire before the public in the dual role of author and pro­ducer for the first time. 
The play was at the Playhouse, 48th St. E. of Broadway, when Harry wrote. Harry's letter says that McGuire's loss of a job on the News is interesting as successes seem to follow that process regularly. J. 
P. McEvoy, old student, and Ring Lardner, both served time on the News and left, tradition says, involuntarily. Harry says he is keeping an eye on Frank Kolars. Frank, however, beat the News-Times to it, and is settling English questions for fresh­men before settling himself. 

Alumni Clubs Active 
FORT WAYNE CLUB 
At the annual banquet given by the Notre 
Dame Club of Fort Wayne to the Notre 
Dame students of that city home for the 
Christmas holidays, William P. Breen, 
'77, president of the Club, acted as toast­
master, "in his usual suave manner", the 
newspaper adds, and welcomed the boys. 
In the name of the students Mr. John 
Morsehes responded "in a very creditable 
manner". 
Rt. Rev. John Noll, LL.D. '15, Bishop 
of Port Wayne, was the speaker of the 
evening and he deplored the loose and in­
correct thinking which is so common among 
men who hold high positions in the journal­
istic field, and he traced it to the looseness 
of their religious convictions and to the 
lack of sound philosophy as a branch, at 
secular colleges and universities. 
Besides President Breen, the officers of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne are John W. Eggeman, '00, vice-president; Clif­ford B. Ward, '23, secretary, and Felix L. Logan, '23, treasurer. 
TOLEDO CLUB 

The following clipping from a Toledo newspaper, sent in by Kenn F. Nyhan, secretary of the Notre Dame Club of To­ledo, gives a good account of the club's holi­day entertainment: " " 
(Dec. 30) "In the usual Notre Dame style, the University of Notre Dame Club held one of the most elaborate social acairs of the season at the Toledo Woman's Club. The hall was cleverly decorated in Gold and Blue. And a dinner was served some 400 guests. The dinner was followed by three acts of special entertainment, and then dancing. The success of the affair was due to the splendid work of the committee which handled the affair. The members of the committee being—L. MALONE, '13, A. RYAN, '13, F. KEENAN, '17, F. VAN AARLE, '21, K­NYHAN, '22, JOHN COCHRANE, '23, FRANK Mc GiNNis, '24, and JOHN HURLEY, '25. 
101, THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 




BACKFIELD HARMONY 
Notre Dame wants a full-back who can sing a rumbling bass that will put "Asleep in the Deep" deeper than ever. If En-right, Elmer Wynn or Fred Collins can qualify for this job the Notre Dame Glee Club ^vill have one of the best backfield quartets on the road. 
Edwards, who was elected as one of the two captains for next year's team, reported to the Glee Club this week and has been assigned to the first tenor section where the director says his signal calling makes him one of the best high meii he has. Christy Flanagan, the sensational left half­back, also sought out the recesses of Wash­ington hall, where the musicians hold forth, and aside from having a little trouble with his "r"s, the Texas youth is right at home in the second tenor section of the Club. Joe Prelli, who acted like a recurrent comet at right half in several games this season, is a veteran member of the organization. Prelli has not only been singing with the club for three years, but has appeared in solo numbers at various banquets and meet­ings at Notre Dame and on the football trips. 
With a right half, a left half and a quarter, such as these three men are, it doesn't take long to see that a good bass full-back would just about give Notre Dame's Glee Club an All-American quartet. One thing about the football men who have just joined the organization, they'll be a nucleus of travel-scarred veterans to guide the other members on the long trips through Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, which is Edwards' home state, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island and Connecticut, that are on the organization's itinerary this season. 
There was a time at Notre Dame when the full dress suits of the Glee Club held a peculiar abhorrence for the monogram men and for any member of the team to join the club was about the next worst thing to wearing knickerbockers. And on the other side of the fence the Glee Club dread­ed to have a football man show up who could sing because the cry of "advertising" al­ways rose from all sides. But the Fighting Irish and the Singing Irish have changed their ways. The honor attached to mem­bership in the Glee Club is one of which the monogram men are proud. And the Glee Club directors and members welcome foot­ball men, if they can sing. And in the case of the partial backfield mentioned above, they can sing. 
Maybe" one reason the boys used to dis­like the Glee Club was that it did look just a bit funny to see the big full-back or the glowering guard on the stage in a high collar and a swallow-tail coat singing "Never Harm a Daisy" or some of the in­spiring things of that nature. 


EDITORIAL 
„ Alfred C. Ryan, Ph.B. in 

"RING OUT 
THE OLD" Com. '20, is now just one of the Notre Dame alumni. Perhaps Al had this day in mind when he organized the alumni body of the Univer­sity into one of the leading associations of its kind in the country. 
Notre Dame's alumni body is recognize;! as the outstanding national group of Catho­lic college men. During Mr. Eyan's ad­ministration the number of Notre Dame clubs throughout the country increased four-fold and the interest and activities of those which already existed were invigor­ated by the new life that the secretary brought to his work. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus, which v.'a3 begun as a feature of the Endowmtnt Drive, was taken over by Mr. Ryan and made into one of the leading magazines of its type in the college world. The Alumnus is a member of the Alumni Magazines As­sociated and the alumni secretary of Notre Dame is a' member of the Association of Alumni Secretaries, the only Catholic col­lege or university represented. 
Universal Notre Dame Night, which for two years has made the world acquainted with Notre Dame alumni, and Notre Dame alumni acquainted with each other, and everyone familiar with Notre Dame, was begun by Mr. Ryan. The hi.tory of those two nights is familiar to the alumni and is testimony enough of their succe.s. 
These are things of matter; concrete evi­dence of tha benefits which accrued from Mr. Ryan's regime. But an even greater heritage of his work is the Notre Dame spirit. He didn't discover cr begin Notre Dame spirit. Father Sorin and his litf.e band brought that to Notre Dame in 1842, and it has grown and waxed strong with the years. The students have had it and it has bound them like a chain. But with the alumni it was as though the linlcs had been separated, one link going to California, another to New York, a third to Mexico and a fourth to the Philippines. These links were 

the same strong bonds, potentially, that had bound their owners as students, biit actually, in their separateness, they lost all their binding power. 
Al Ryan, through his Alumnus, his Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, his Notre Dame Clubs, and his own personality and eflSciency, took all thtse scattered links, reforged them through class reunions, molded them with the strong but light chain of the Notre Dame student body and produced a bond that holds the whole world within the unity of Notre Dame spirit. 
For a man who eflFtcted such changes within so short a time, it is not to be won­dered that the gate? of opportunity opened wide and revealed so much that he yielded readily. He left behind him only cause for -praise. The house was set in almost perfect order. His record is one of rapid and constant progress. The Alumni As­sociation has lost a brilliant secretary, but the world has gained a Notre Dame man, who will continue the constructive work from the outside that he began in office. 
Personal mention of the edi-THE NEW" *°^ ^y *^® editor isn't exactly the thing, but so much of this work is dependent upon personal contact that it is necessary for just this once to drag in the persona non grata. Al Ryan built up a splendid organization through the aid of hearty personal support from Notre Dame alumni. It is hard to step into his shots, familiar only with the alumni of '25 and '24, and expect or ask that same sup­port. But that is just what is being asked. It was this support that built the Associa­tion to its present strength, and if there is to be further growth and harmony of architecture the material used in construct­ing must be the same. So if the alumni will carry on as though Al were still capably holding down the position, the new secretary will try to learn the craftsmanship of ar­ranging the material in the same attractive style. 
DORMITORIES The insistence of the 
FIRST authorities of Notre 
Dame University that a 

football stadium shall not be built until 
needed dormitories, class rooms and labora­
tories have been supplied is noteworthy in 
this day of "stadiumitis." The picture of 
the modern university which appears in 
Harold Lloyd's "The Freshman" with the 
stadium as the center of the university's 
activities is doubtless exaggerated, but it 
represents a trend which has been marked, 
particularly in the state universities of the 
middle west. 
t 

Notre Dame's determination to keep foot­ball in its proper place is particularly sig­nificant because her teams year after year have been among the strongest and most spectacular developed anywhere. It would be easier perhaps for Notre Dame to "go football crazy" than for any other university in the country. The ability of her faculty 
JANUARY "PAN" OUT 

The January issue of "Pan" the national monthly magazine of "poetry and youth" which is published at the Uhiversity of Notre Dame by Prof. Charles Phillips, 
M. A., of the faculty of Arts and Letters, and Harry A. McGuire, '25, is now in the mails. This little monthly volume each issue contains much that is Notre Dame in authorship and more that is Notre Dame in Spirit and has proved to be an inspira­tion and an outlet for Notre Dame talent. 
In the January issue the feature is four drawings by Jorge Palomino, a student from Mexico City. Palomino's art is vivid and distinct and the unusual drawings, depict­ing "Free Will", "Despair", "Sorrow" and "Hate", have been augmented by descriptive quati-ains by Prof. Phillips. The editor has also -written a most interesting article "Of Aegean Isles and Desert Wastes", discuss­ing whether authoi-s and artists should live "in the world" or group themselves in "art colonies". 
Harry McGuire has a poem "Idealist", and his regular department "Columination". Thomas Deegan, a freshman at Notre Dame, has contributed a poem "Lock and Key" to this issue. Prof. Phillips is also respon­sible for a unique poem, "Sister Giovanna", written to Lillian Gish in the "White Sis­and officers to keep their heads in the face of agitation by students, alumni and towns­people for a great stadium reflects a point of view which has become all too rare in American university life.—Cleveland Plain Dealer. 
THINGS TO THINK ABOUT 
(Editor's note: The following items 
are matters which will come up during 
the next few months. Consideration of 
them beforehand wrill save much time 
later and any suggestions on any or all 
of the subjects vrill aid the Alumni of­
fice in carrying on the work for the 
best interests of the netire Associa­
tion.) 
1.
 The Alumnus—news, changes of address, suggestions. 

2.
 Universal' Notre Dame night— suggestions as to date, programs, local and general, etc. 

3.
 Class' Reunions—^"If winter comes, can Spring be far behind ?" 

4.
 The transcendental Alumni dues. 



ter". McGuire's column discusses Red Grange and professional football. Some of the best poets in the country are frequent contributors to "Pan" and the little maga­zine has made rapid strides as one of the most interesting of the pottry magazines on the present market. 
HAMILTON TO PLAY 

"Spike" Hamilton and his orchestra, who created a sensation with their musical of­ferings at the affairs given by eastern uni­versities, before coming to Chicago where they are now entertaining at the exclusive Opera Club, will play at their first mid-western collegiate dance, when they appear at the Junior Prom to be given in the Pal­ais Royale on February 12 by the Class of '27. 
This announcement followed the efforts of James W. Coleman, chairman of the mu­sic committee, to secure a prominent or­chestra after Lawrence H. Hennessey, of the arrangements group had selected the Palais Royale as the ballroom. "Spike" Hamilton and his orchestra were induced to accept the offer to play, after the committee which visited Chicago last Saturday and heard several groups of musicians, had agreed upon a selection. 
The last month has been one of the most successful months in student activities, em­bodying as it did over two weeks of vaca­tion. Taking in the period of waning ac­tivities before the holidays and the period of the acquisition of momentum afterward, there hasn't been an excess of activity in campus circles. 
Before the trains steamed out into four winds there were innumerable club meet­ings to discuss the holiday dances planned for the various cities throughout the coun­try. That these meetings were not en­tirely fruitless is evident from the echoes that come from newspaper clippings and letters from all the 48 states of the Union containing praises of the Notre Dame dance. Among the cities that enjoyed student af­fairs were New York City, Newark, Cleve­land, Eochester, Grand Eapids, Denver, La-Salle, and Toledo. Several other cities en­joyed alumni dances and at either student or alumni functions there were many of both groups present. 
Campus entertainments have reached a peak of excellence under the direction of Eev. William Carey, rector of Sorin Hall and manager of Washington Hall. The long program of feature pictures before Christmas started a series of capacity crowds that has resulted in a come early or stay out policy at the campus theater. Basketball games interfered with the pro­grams for a while and they were discon­tinued in favor of the gym sport. But the away from home lull brought Milton Sills in "The Knockout" the first Saturday after, vacation. This picture, by the way, also features Ed Garvey, former football star of the University. In addition to the pictures, several splendid entertainments have been held. The Notre Dame band gave an e.x­cellent concert, William Eogerson, tenor, appeared in a recital. Dr. James J. Walsh delivered one of his inspiring lectures. And Court Byron Khut von Prorok, eminent archaeologist and authority on the ancient city of Carthage, is scheduled to appear Jan. 13, giving a lecture on the excavations and the findings on the alleged site of the old Punic capital. 
Woi-k on the publications of the campus is taking up all the time that Messrs. Doo­ley, Grady, Smith, Harrington, Euddyand Pietrowicz can spend. The Santa Maria, editor Mr. Stephen Pietrowicz, appeared coincidentally with fifty new members of the Knights of Columbus last month and con­tained a number of interesting features. The Notre Dame Lawyer, youngest member of the Notre Dame publications family, put forth its second issue and kept up the high standard set by the first issue. The Schol­astic and the Juggler acquitted themselves with their Christmas numbers more than favorably, both issues being received en­thusiastically and carried conspicuously to the 2000 homes that were brightened dur­ing the vacation. Paul Harrington is tak­ing time out between pole vaults and a gen­eral captainly supervision of his tr-ack team to work on the details for the next issue of his Catalyzer. The Catalyzer and the Lawyer have already won for themselves a firm standing in their rather technical fields and have received very favorable comments from the outside contacts they have made. 
The new buildings on the campus and plans for even more have given the campus the atmosphere of progress that is gradu­ally finding its counterpart in students and student activities and the old halls are humming right along with the noise that is heard all day where the stately Morrissey is rising. Corby was painted inside dur­ing the holidays, which, to old Corbyites, will indicate the radical extent that im­provement has reached. 
With basketball in full swing, hockey (contingent upon the current ice conditions), track and boxing, getting ready for the pushoff the last of the month, athletic cir­cles at Notre Dame are running at high speed. Coaches Lieb, Keogan and Wend-land are using all the eyes nature gave them at about double the intensity nature intend­ed, trying to drill into the candidates the principles of the several sports. Coach Keogan has been successful and Coaches 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
lOS 
Lieb and Wendland \y\\\ not be at fault if their proteges fail to exhibit the learning they are absorbing by "leaps and bounds". Northwestern opens the track season here the 23rd; the Kansas Aggies the boxing season the 15th; the hockey season may open any time. A freshman-varsity track meet last Saturday showed the varsity men to ba in rather good condition. Paul Harrington, captain and pole vaulter cleared the indoor bar at 12 feet and 3 inches, which looked very good to the coaches and the assembled students. The quarter milers and the relay teams also seem to be in line for some good work this season. Then there are always the inevitable "dark horses" that gallop home with a few unexpected and welcome points at opportune moments. 
With January on its way and the visions of Spring already materializing every time the sun shines, it begins to look as if Notre Dame is going to have the biggest Spring in its history, a "spring" that -will place it high among the leading Universities of the country in the material as well as the immaterial assets of a University. 


VARSITY FOUR 
0" % 

m} 1o r rx 1 ^ f *••» 
1 

MESSRS. KOPECKY, HALEY, BOWER, MEYERS 
It hasn't been determined yet whether this is the old quartet that sang "Sweet Ade­line" or not. But it is certainly the four­some that is putting out a high-class brand of music as a variation on the Glee Club programs, and for the innumerable special functions that are mellowed by melody. 
The Varsity Quartet, which tradition has made the arbiter of popular music on the campus, is composed this year of Messrs. Alfred Meyers, bass; Seward Bower, bari­tone; Arthur Haley, second tenor, and An­thony Kopecky, first tenor. The quartet is the medium for introducing a light, humor­ous vein into the singing program that would not repay the effort of the entire club. Then, too, they fulfill the quartet complex of the American people. No matter what kind of musical program there may be or what type of music the quartet may sing, a good quartet \vill win the audience any time and any place. And that is what this quartet is doing. 

Band and Glee Club Record for Victor 
Notre Dame's band and Glee Club have provided another means by which the Notre Dame bonds may be strengthened through­out the country and by which the name of the University will be favorably brought to the atttntion of a widely scattered public. The means mentioned is the phonograph record, which is holding its own even against the incursions of the radio. 
Through the efforts of Mark Duncan, '15, prominent in the phonograph business in Chicago; Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, '16, fa­culty advisor and former member of the Notre Dame Glee Club, and Elbel Bros, music store of South Bend, the two Notre Dame organizations were privileged to make test. records in December for the Victor company on the new orthophonic recording apparatus which was brought to Chicago from Camden, N. J. Thirty-five members of the band and a triple quartet fi'cm the Glee Club coriiprised the party of 
musicians that recorded the "Victory March" by John F. Shsa, '08, and Rev. Michael Shea, '04, and the "Hike Song", by Joseph Casasanta, '23, and Vincent Fagan, '20. 
These two pieces are familiar to every­one who has ever had the pleasure of listen­ing to a Notre Dame musical organization and have been increasingly popular in the repertoire of all organizations that feature college music. This fall the famous War-ing's Pennsylvanians asked for recording privileges but because of the proposed re­cording by the school organizations, it was thought best not to put the two selections on the dance record market. 
Word has been received by Father O'Don­nell and Elbel Bros, that the records were successful. A test record was sent to the South Bend store and a private concert was given to the parties interested. The results are said to be marvelous and Donald Elbel, in the music business for 34 years, says that the record is the best college record he has ever heard. 
Notre Dame's band was the second band of college or university to record for the new orthophonic process. The University of Illinois famous band made a record on the new apparatus in the Victor laboratories at Camden, N. J., when the organization went east with the football team for the Pennsylvania game. But the Notre Dame band was the first to record outside the eastern laboratories and the results are said to be highly satisfactory to the Victor people, the University authorities and all those who were instrumental in securing the recording of the piece. 
Local release of the records will be made sometime in February, according to the El­bel store. The records, however, will not be listed in the Victor catalog, or placed on regular sale, until much later in the year. Orders are being taken in South Bend and on the campus already. When the private concert was over, orders were sent in to the Victor company to start pro­duction immediately and from the way the orders are coming in, it seems as though the producing end will be kept busy filling. 
Both pieces of music have a powerful swing, both have a beautiful melody. These qualities make them very popular every­where and the sale of the records will be by no means limited to Notre Dame students and alumni. Orders are rolling in from those connected -with Notre Dame so rapidly that it looks as though everyone who is or was at Notre Dame will have a record. Many are sending them to their friends. The new pieces promise to popularize both the "Victory March" and the "Hike Song" to a degree seldom attained by college music. 
Sales arrangements have been made so that the University students and alumni will receive the records from the first ship­ment of records, which are expected at Elbel's next month, and which will be the only records of these pieces sent out by Victor until the regular dealers shipments are sent out several weeks later. Herbert Jones is handling the sale on the campus, tickets being sold to the students which will be exchanged for the records as soon as the shipment arrives. Alumni orders will be received direct by Elbel's. The records wU be shipped from this first ship­ment for one dollar postpaid to any part of this country. Orders are already heavy, ranging from one to twenty records. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
FIFTH STUDENT DIES 

For the fifth time this year, death cast a pall over the Notre Dame campus when Jack D. Spillane, 5106 Buffalo ave., Niagara Falls, N, Y., died suddenly Thursday af­ternoon, Jan. 14, in the isolation hospital of the University. Spillane was taken ill the preceding Sunday night and was sent to the hospital with what was thought to be scarlet fever. Every medical aid was given him as soon as possible and it was thought that he was on the road to recovery. His death was very unexpected and was caused from a blood clot. 
Spillane was very prominent on the campus, particularly as a boxer. He was featherweight champion of the University for two years and a monogram man in the sport. He would have been graduated in June in journalism and his studies kept him from taking an active part in the boxing activities this year. He was a member of the Blue Circle and the New York State club and was popular vdth. his personal friends and those who knew him only through his boxing. 
The father of the dead student was noti­fied immediately and was expected at the University Friday to take Spillane's body back to Niagara Falls for burial. The sud­denness of the death and the popularity of the student accentuated the shock and grief of the students. The five deaths this year come after a period unusually free from such misfortunes and are the more keenly felt by students and faculty for that reason. 
Besides Spillane, the four other boys who have died this year on the campus are George Schlosser, Eau Claire, Wis., a junior in the Commerce school, who died of appen­dicitis last fall; Edmund Glade, Batavia, 
N. Y., a sophomore pre-medic student, who died of appendicitis; Jimmy Powers, Chi­cago, 111., freshman pre-Iaw student, who died from injuries sustained in football scrimmage last October; and Edwin Row­ley, San Antonio, Texas, a senior engineer. 
who was killed by an automobile while re­turning from the Junior Prom in Novem­ber. 
The five boys who have died during the year at Notre Dame were typical Notre Dame students and even James Powers, a freshman, the first football player to die from direct results of football injuries, had endeared himself to his fellows. In every instance, the boys died quietly, and with a patient endurance, in the case of Powers and Rowley, especially, that spoke volumes for their faith. 
The loss of the five students has mellowed activities at Notre Dame and has put a tone of sincerity and thoughtfulness into campus life that long periods of carefree ac­tivity cannot develop. There has been a spiritual and mental depth produced by the vivid memories of the dead. The sympathy and sorrow of the students has been so great in the loss of their fellow-students that it has carried itself to the bereaved parents and in every instance the thought­fulness of the students and alumni of the University has brought forth expressions of appreciation from the parents. The Uni­versity has taken every precaution to guard the health of its students and the five deaths are the regrettable results of unforeseen circumstances, natural in themselves, but emphasized at Notre Dame by the unity of the students on the campus and freedom from death in recent years.' 
Notre Dame's traditions are rich with the names of men who worked all their lives for the school. Some of them suffered greatly, others were blessed with success, which, however, never lessened their labor. The Great War added a list of heroes of another type, heroes whose deaths for their country reflected glory upon Notre Dame. The stu­dents who have died this year have joined the ranks of all those others in whose eyts Notre Dame was good, and the brief span of life and the few deeds done have been magnified by the charity of God to stand beside those gone before. 

W ATHLETICS 
By Bert V. Dunne, '26. 
m 
Basketball. 
Armour Institute 26, Notre Dame 53 University of Minnesota 14, Notre Dame 36 Northwestern University 20, Notre Dame 30 University of Iowa 16, Notre Dame 17 Northwestern University 21, Notre Dame 38 Mercer University 31, Notre Dame 48 Kansas Aegies 23, Notre Dame 38 Franklin College 33, Notre Dame 22 Jan. 15, University of Detroit at Detroit. Jan. 16, City College of Detroit at Detroit. Jan. 20, Wabash College at Crawfordsville. Jan. 23, Michigan State at Notre Dame. Jan. 30, University of Detroit, at Notre Dame. Feb. 6, University of Illinois at Urbana. Feb. 13, Wabash College at Notre Dame. Feb. 16, Michigan State at Lansing. Feb. 20i Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame. Feb. 27, Franklin College at Notre Dame. Mar. 5, Creighton University at Notre Dame. Mar. 6, Creighton University at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's victorious basketball team sped through an unprecedented season that promised very much, and still promises much, until Franklin inflicted a set-back on Coach Keogan's quintet Jan. 8. After dis­posing of Iowa, Northwestern twice, Mer­cer and the Kansas Aggies, in addition to the Armour and Minnesota games earlier in the season, the Notre Dame team went down to Franklin and dropped a fast battle to the Baptists. 
Handicaps were plentiful in the game, if alibis will be pardoned. It was Notre Dame's fourth hard game in ten days. The team was on a much smaller floor. Nyikos, star scoring center, was lost in the first half, which ended with Notre Dame lead­ing 17-11. The main cause of the defeat was the untimely return of Vandivier, Franklin star, into the basketball limelight. The sensational Franklin forward who caused such havoc last year has been out of the game with injuries sustained in a fire, and only returned to the court this week. He was held scoreless in the Butler game with Franklin but released all his pent up energy against the Irish and scored five baskets. 
The Iowa game, Dec. 18th, was the most thrilling staged on the new court this sea­son. The Hawkeyes came from Iowa City fresh from a series of victories and at­tacked the Keogan men with evidently the same idea of winning. The sudden speed and style of the westerners dazed Notre Dame but not enough to allow the visitors to get away to a lead. The whole game see­sawed with one-point margins and Notre Dame fans were in suspense until the final gun showed a 17-16 score in favor of the Irish. It was the closest call Coach Keogan's men had had and there was much relief when the touted lowans had gone. 
Northwestern invaded Notre Dame im­mediately after Christmas to win back the laurels lost by them on their own court before the holidays. But the week's vaca­tion had served a good end for Notre Dame. The determination of the Purple met an impregnable defense and the result was a larger score than the first game, 38-21. Moon Baker and White, the Northwestern forwards, were held down mercilessly by Dahman and Conroy, two of the best guards seen in action in several seasons, accord­ing to Coach Keogan and most of the fans. 

On Jan. 2nd, Mercer, the 1924 champions of the southern conference, north on a search for scalps, stacked their Georgia mrttle against Notre Dame. Whether it was zero weather or travel or just the com­mon local opinion that Notre Dame couldn't be beat makes little difference, the southern­ers cracked under the strain and dropped a decisive game to Coach Keogan's men, 48-31. A short passing attack, using three men as constant scoring threats, and the two guards as occasional offense men when the opposing defense was holding down the others, dazzled the visitors while the guarding of Notre Dame's five man de­fense resulted in minimum scoring on the part of the opposing team. 
The Kansas Aggies, victors over North­western and defeated by Illinois by only one point, came on the floor Jan. 5th to cap their tour with a victory over the strong Irish five. Capt. Vince McNally and his men rose to the occasion so nobly that the west­erners were swamped under a 38-23 score. But the three post-holiday games with Northwestern, Mercer and the Aggies took a lot out of the Notre Dame five. All of 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
NOTRE DAME'S 192G VARSITY BASKETBALL TEAM 
the games were hard as well as fast and in the Kansas game both Nyikos and Dahman were badly shaken up. The trip to Frank­lin and the strange floor capped the other difficulties and the sudden blossoming of the southern Indianans completed the dis­aster. 
A double bill in Detroit, against the U. of Detroit on Jan. 15th and the College of Detroit on Jan. 16th, is expected to put the Irish five on its feet again and start the second half of a brilliant season. Wabash will provide dangerous opposition in Craw­fcrdsville on Jan. 20th, but several games away from home •will have put the Notre Dame quintet in better condition for meet­ing strangers. 
The season, even including the Franklin defeat, has been brilliant. Coach Keogan carded the hardest schedule ever attempted by a Notre Dame team. The hardest oppon­ents have been met. The record is seven victories, including four Conference games, and only one loss. Wabash, Illinois, Carne­gie Tech, a return game with Franklin, and a double-header with Creighton com­pi-ise the stiffest dishes remaining on the menu. The rest of the schedule, howevei', presents no such mass attack of opposi­tion as the last ten days provided, and local fans are looking forward to seeing the Notre Dame team emerge at the end of the season with the best record in the west. 
NEW GYM ATTEACTIVE 

The new basketball court in the Notre Dame gymnasium annex has resulted in a greatly increased popularity of basketball off the campus. The record of the Notre Dame team has of course augmented this liking and the thrilling games that Coach Keogan's men have played on the home floor and the thirteen home games scheduled with some of the best teams in the west have increased the attendance to almost a capa­city crowd at each game. 
Band concerts and boxing between the halves were introduced early in the season but the time between the halves was too 
short for Coach Springer's men to get in any effective work and the band was left to carry out the entertainment in the lulls of the game. Director Casasanta's musicians more than did this ably and became an im­portant part of the evenings. 
The large 50 x 90 floor has been a source of much pleasure to both Notre Dame and visiting players and the games have been fast and unusually clever with pass­ing, dribbling and shooting. The new gym is exceptionally well lighted and the play is apparent from all parts. This has re­sulted in a full house for every game and with the record amassed to date and the teams coming, even the four or five thous­and that the managers can accommodate will be crowded. 
Notre Dame fans have seen Minnesota, Northwestern, Iowa, Mercer, the Kansas Aggies and Armour Institute, in action on the Notre Dame court already this season, one of the strongest home schedules with­out going further that the home court has presented. But there are as many good games coming as have come and gone. Michi­gan State, which has defeated Chicago and all but one other of its competitors, re­opens the home schedule here Jan. 22, a night ahead of the scheduled date to avoid conflict with the Northwestern track meet the 23rd. Jan. 30, the U. of Detroit comes to Notre Dame to repay or repeat whatever the outcome of the game in Detroit the 15th is. Feb. 13 will see Wabash coming up for the second time, and that game, too, will be influenced by the game at Crawf ords­ville on the 20th. Feb. 20 the fast Carnegie Tech team arrives with a sample of eastern basketball. Feb. 27 the Franklin, five will come up and that game will be the feature of the home schedule as matters stand now. A double bill with the strong Creighton quintet from Omaha will close the season. There are a number of stumbling blocks on this schedule and the caliber of the teams that are yet to be downed is creating an interest in South Bend and the surround­ing Michigan and Indiana towns that is pulling in a steady. stream of cars every basketball night, and football is being strongly threatened as an all-year sport. 
SWIMMING A schedule of at least nine meets has practically been completed by Jerry Rhodes, captain of the Notre Dame swimming team this year. The first regular meet will come Jan. 20 with the Flying Squadron of South Bend in the city natatorium. The Northwestern and Illinois dates in the fol­lowing schedule are tentative but clashes with the University of Pittsburgh, Indiana, Armour Tech, and Michigan State are as­sured. The schedule follows: 
Jan. 20—South Bend Flying Squadron Jan. 30—^Hoosier A. C. South Bend Feb. 5—Northwestern at Chicago Feb. 6—Armour Tech at Chicago Feb. 27—Michigan State at Lansing Mar. 1—Indiana at South Bend Mar. 13—U. of Pittsburgh at South Bend Mar. 27—Illinois at South Bend 

All of the home meets will be held in the city natatorium in South Bend. 
In the freshmen-varsity meet in the Notre Dame tank Thursday night, Jan. 14, four records were broken and one tied, indicating that the team is strong this year and ought to be able to give a good account of itself in the water. 
Hugh McCaffery, a member of Tom Goss's squad last year, was the star of the first meet, breaking two records. McCaffery negotiated the 100-yard free style in :57.4, cutting down the old record of 1:01, and sliced the old record of 2:39.4 for the 220­yard exhibition down to 2:33.3. McCaffery was also a member of the relay team which clipped 4 seconds from the 160-yard relay, reducing the time from 1:23.1 to 1:19.2. Cronin, a freshman, cracked the fourth rec­ord by reducing the time in the 40-yard dash from 1:25.3 to 1:21.4. The results of the meet were: 
100-yard free style—McCaffery (V) first; Cronin 

F) second. Time: :57.4 (new record), old record: 
300-yard medley: McLoughiin (backstroke) (V) first; Rhodes, (breastroke) (V) second; Brykcynski (free style) (V) third. Time: 3:50. 
220-yard exhibition—won by Hugh McCaffery. Time: 2:33.3, old record: 2:39.4. 
Special 160-yard relay—Daniels, McCaffery, Cronin, Brykcynski. Time: 1:19.2, old record: 1:23.1. 
40 yards—Cronin, (F) first; Beck, (F) second; McLoughiin, (V) third. Time: 1:21.4, old record: 1:2.5.3. 
220-yard free style—Hudson, (V) first; Fritsch (F) second. Time: 2:46.1. 
100-yard breastroke—Daniels, (F) first; McKier­nan (V) second. Time: 1:19. 
In the 100-yard breastroke special exhibition Cap­tain Rhodes tied the existing record, 1 min. 16 sec. 
Notre Dame's swimming team came into 

prominence last year and the year before 
under the untiring tutelage of Tom Goss, '25. 
Goss' efforts with his tankmen behind the 
main building were not noticed at first and 
the team certainly suffered from no over­
crowding of interested spectactors at their 
workouts. In fact the early matches were 
not subjected to capacity audiences. But 
work will tell. It wasn't long until the 
Notre Dame swimming team began to hang 
up scores against its opponents that indi­
cated that the team was progressing. Sev­
eral records made by the campus swimmers 
pushed visiting swimmers hard and victories 
over certain respected teams put swimming 
on the map as a real sport. Boxing and 
swimming have risen almost despite campus 
interest, more than because of it. Tom 
Goss and Charley Springer have been the 
mainsprings in the development and deserve 
much credit. Captain Jerry Rhodes starts 
out as though the destinies of the mermen 
have been entrusted to the right leader. 
TRACK 

Coaches Tom Lieb and John Wendland are whipping their track men into shape. A freshman-varsity meet last week showed the varsity men to be in good shape and the yearlings were swamped by the upper classmen, who showed much better than track fans had been led to hope. The team this year seems to be lacking the outstand­ing individual stars of former years, but the coaches are working hard to produce a bal­anced team. Illinois has come out ahead in a surprisingly large number of instances through having a team that could take seconds and thirds consistently even when the first was lost. Notre Dame has tasted of this mini method so long that a similar movement is on foot here this year. 
The annual Gold and Blue meet sched­uled for Saturday is expected to reveal the dependable talent that only had a hurried chance to show in the first meet. Coaches Wendland and Lieb have chosen two teams from the talent that blossomed last week and expect to give track fans a fairly ac­curate idea of what may be expected of the Notre Dame team in competition with the strong teams on its schedule this sea­son. 
The new gym is going to be a decided asset and may make up in large measure for the loss of some of the stars of last year. The new pole vaulting and high-jumping pit has been completed. In keep­ing with a new track ruling this season a wooden take-oif has been installed in the pole vault event. A dirt take-off was for­merly used. The new track has been put in fairly good condition and is expected to be in shape for the Northwestern meet here Saturday, Jan. 23. The Purple always ad­vance a formidable track aggregation and Coaches Lieb and Wendland are wasting no time theorizing. 
The men who will compete under the Gold and Blue colors and who are expected to contribute much to the success of the track team during the season have been divided from the varsity and freshmen ranks. Coach Wendland's cross-country squad of last fall is prominent in the list of candidates for the distance running and the men who were subjected to the rigorous training of the star distance runner of '25 ought to be in good condition for the shorter events of the track. 
• Dolmage, Brown, and Pat Collins will be the leading contenders in the two-mile run, with the usual host of ambitious two-milers at their heels, from whose thick ranks may step the customary "dark horse" who refuses to be left behind as the laps decrease. Phelan, Young and R. Collins, more cross-country products, are the en­tries in the mile and are expected to do the distance with considerable speed. Master-son, Nulty, cross-country captains, and Ryan, are the 880-yard men and are also of convincing stamina and speed and counted on for consistent points. 
In the field events, Captain Paul Har­rington is expected to pile up regular points in rather substantial hunks with his trusty pole. The leader negotiated 12 feet 3 inches last week, which is promising for the early season. Hamil and Carey are the other leading contenders in the pole vault. Carey also is trying for the high jump, he and Leahy being the only entries of promise in this event to date. The broad jump, too, seems to lack candidates and only two men, Bannon and Norton, are entered. Bach-man, Boland and Moes, a former monogram man who is back taking law, are the chief rivals in the shot put. Barron, Griffin and Stance are trying the hurdles, Barron hav­ing shown considerable promise in this de­partment last year. 

In the dashes lies one of the chief hopes of the Notre Dame track fans. The dash men and the relay men are among the most able and experienced memebrs of the squad and are looked to to give the team the cool­ness of the old heads at the game. No re­lays are listed for the Gold and Blue meet, all the men being entered in the dashes and the coaches are saving them for the meet with Northwestern. But from the dashes they expect to pick the strongest candidates and blend their entries in the events to se­cure the best results. 
The 60-yard dash will find Delia Maria and Elder the outstanding candidates for the short sprints. The rest of the dash men have been entered in both the 220-yard and the 440-yard and from the results of these races the coaches expect to pick the proper distances for their men. Jimmy Stack, Leahy, Guinette, Joe Prelli and Bernie Coughlin are the quintet of sprint­ers whose names are expected to be among the point winners in these two events and from whose ranks will be recruited the relay teams and the dash specialists to tackle the strong schedule carded. 
With Northwestern, Illinois, Marquette, Wisconsin, Iowa, Michigan State, and a half dozen big meets of state colleges and relay teams scheduled. Coaches Wendland and Lieb are working hard so that Notre Dame's track team will be known for its works and not alone for the faith that the Irish fans have it it. 
BOXING 
Coach Charley Springer selected his team for the first bouts, scheduled for Jan. 16 
•with the Kansas Aggies, by an informal series of elimination bouts. The boxers seem to be in shape to meet the Missouri Valley team, who are fresh from a victory over Ames. Coach Springer and his squad are out to make the best of the unexpected match with the Aggies, which was origin­ally announced for March 15. 

THK NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Guy Lorenger, last year's bantamweight champion of the University, will defend his class, listed at 118 pounds. Lorenger Avas pressed in the elimination bouts by Welch, but in an extra round held on to the de­cision. In the featherweight class, 125 pounds, O'Keefe will defend the Notre Dame colors. 
An upset in the lightweight class occur­red in the elimination bouts when Jimmy Moran, a "dark horse" in every sense of the word, did a Horatio Alger entrance and defeated Benny Di Pasquali, polished Buf­falo fighter. Moran will again appear in the Kansas meet and Irish fans who have seen Di Pasquali in action are looking for the newcomer with much eagerness. 
Cyril Defever has a stage name but there isn't anything of the matinee idol about the quiet young welterweight and this class has one of the most consistent and hard hitting fighters on the team. Pat Canney, middleweight, has been a familiar figure in the Notre Dame ring for several seasons. Pat has a new pair of green silk shorts this winter and is strongly averse to having them touch the canvas. Which ought to insure strong opposition for any visiting middleweights. The light heavy­weight class is ably defended by Charley Springer, captain and coach of the Notre Dame team. Bob LaFoIiette, football can­didate, is holding up the heavyweight end of the squad and looks good. 
LATE SPOET 
By Bert V. Dunne 

A crowd of 2,500 saw the Kansas Aggies defeat Notre Dame in the first boxing meet of the season Friday night in the university gymnasium by a score of 4-3. There were two knockouts during the course of the pro­gram. "Zed" Pierson put away Bob LaFoI­iette in the heavyweight class in the second round with a terrific right jolt. The other was a technical K. 0. in the Walgren-Lorin­ger affair. Walgren, of the Aggies, had Loringer in a bad way in the first round and Second Charley Springer threw in the towel for Loringer. 
As a mark of respect to Jack Spillane, Notre Dame boxer, who died from scarlet fever Thursday afternoon, the entire audi­ence stood with heads bared for one minute. Both the Aggie and the Irish boxing teams lined up on opposite sides of the ring and stood at attention in reverence to the dead boxer. 
Detroit: 
Notre Dame won a rather easy victory 

over University of Detroit here Friday 
night. The final score was 31 to 14. 
Notre Dame took the lead when McNally scored a basket from a difficult angle. The scoring progressed slowly throughout the first half. McNally added another field goal before Detroit scored. Notre Dame succeeded in running the score to nine to five as the half ended. 
Notre Dame once again regained the pass­ing attack which was prominent in earlier games and scored baskets at will in the second half. McNally and Nyikos were usually on the scoring end of Notre Dame marches. Harrigan and Fasce scored all of Detroit's field goals which totalled three. Jaglowicz of Detroit and Dahman of Notre Dame were expelled on personal fouls. Notre Dame was stopped early in the game but Detroit's stars, Harrigan and Fasce, were smothered, which accounted for a low score in the first half. Fasce got Detroit's only fielder during that period. Notre Dame's reserves played the last five minutes of the game and showed to advantage. 
Notre Dame plays the Detroit City col­lege Saturday night. A tough game is expected. 
The line­up: 

Notre Dame Detroit U 
Crows F Fasce McNally F Trudeau Nyikos Harrisan 
c

Dahman G Jaglowicz Cohroy G Mcllhardy 
Field goals—McNally 5: Dahiran 1; Conroy 1; Ley 1: Harvey X ; Fasce 1; Harriftan 2. FoFuI eoals— McNally 2 ; Nyikos 2 ; Conroy 1: Fasce 1; Trudeau 2 ; Harrican vj; Mcllhardy 2. 
FOUR HORSEMEN 

The following is the newspaper account of the game between the Notre Dame and Princeton alumni players at Coral Gables on New Years, won by the ex-Notre Dame stars 6-0: 
A sensational 85-yard drive in the final moments of play gave a football team com­posed of former Notre Dame stars a 6 to 0 victory here today over a team made up mostly of former Princeton players. The winners, exhibiting their famous "Four Horsemen", and a part of the 1924 cham­pionship outfit, battled against a strong squad, one of the players being Eddie Kaw, former Cornell All-American back. 
Through three quarters the so-called Notre Dame team's backfield charged vainly against a superior Tiger line, with honors a shade in favor of Nassau until the final quarter. Twice the so called Princeton eleven threatened to score, early in the opening period and again in the third quar­ter, when Stan Keek, former Princeton AU-American lineman, attempted placement kicks, both of which fell short. 
At the opening of the final quarter the Notre Dame players launched an offensive from their own 15-yard line which took them straight to the so-called Princeton team's 2-yard marker. Thrice the "Four Horsemen" battled an impregnable forward wall; then Stuhldreher, 1924 All-American quarter, plowed through center for the lone touchdown, inches over the line. He failed to kick goal. 
On the Notre Dame bench were all of the 1924 eleven with the exception of Adam Walsh, Noble Kizer and Eip Miller. But there were also such former stars as Kiley and Eddie Anderson, Tom Litb, Hunk An­derson, Joe Thomas and a number of others. Princeton ruled the other eleven, Kaw, Cor­nell All-American, being the only outsider in the lineup. The game was said by Notre Dame men who saw it to be one of the greatest the 1924 team played, ending with a characteristic Notre Dame drive, and the Florida fans were completely won over. 
RELIGION IN SPORT 
(New York City Sun, Jan. 8, 1926) 
By an interesting coincidence, on the same day on Which Bishop Manning proclaimed at luncheon at the Bankers Club that a natural relationship exists between religion and athletic sports it was announced that Knute Rockne, famous coach of the football team, had been confirmed by Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne, Indiana. In his years as stu­dent and coach Mr. Rockne had no religious affiliations, but in the middle of last fall's campaign for his football team he arranged to be received into the Catholic communion. The ceremony took place on Sunday, No­vember 21. 
Two of the most spectacular football elev­ens of recent years have been made up of players who were deeply religious. One of these was the Notre Dame team which in­cluded the celebrated "Four Horsemen of th eApocalypse." ' ts players were in the habit of going to mass before their games and they were long regarded as unbeatable. 
The other was the eleven from Centre College in Kentucky, which some years ago astonished the country's football connois seurs bj"^ the speed, power and versatility of its play. It became known that its players were in the habit of holding a prayer meet­ing before going on the field, and from this the team derived its nickname, "The Pray­ing Colonels." 
Bishop Manning explained the psychology of it when he said: "Human contact and fellowship are the soul of religion and the spirit of sacrifice for the team, and the de­votion and loyalty that are given in sport develop spiritual qualities that religion seeks to develop." 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
< 
DU 
O 
"-3 
ra tn 
i-a 
b O 
Q
O 
S HCO 
> 
S 
o 
K
K >< 
a 
< 


NOTRE DAME'S ART GALLERIES 
M 

The famous Wightman Art Gallery of the University of Notre Dame has been augmented this year by several fine bene­factions. The completion of the compila­tion of a new catalogue of the Gallery by Dom Gregory Gerrer, 0. S. B., LL.D., di­rector of the collection, has added greatly to the int&rest of students and visitors in visiting the Gallery. A short history of the collection prefaces the description of the pic­tures and is of interest to all who have been at Notre Dame: 
"Prom the early days of Notre Dame priests and professors brought to the Uni­versity various works of art until there had been acquired a collection of twenty-five canvases by notable painters, fourteen or­iginal drawings, and three pieces of bronze. These works were the nucleus of the pres­ent collection. 
"In 1917 Eev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. G., 

D. D., then president of the University, ob­tained from Monseigneur Marois, vicar-gen­eral of Quebec, Canada, one hundred and thirty-six paintings which he bought in Eome from the noble Braschi family, kins­men of Pope Pius VI. Some of these pic­tures belonged at one time to Cardinal Fesch, an uncle of Napoleon I, others to the Capuchin monks of Benevento, and the rest to the Sciarra-Colonna family. Seventy-four of these paintings were selected to adorn the walls of the galleries. 
"To enlarge the work and make the col­lection representatvie of the best in Chris­tian art, Mr. Charles A. Wightman, LL.D., of Evanston, Illinois, a collector and a lover of the beautiful in art, donated in memory of his late wfe, Cecilia, an addition of one hundred and eight masterpieces as a me­morial of a lifelong devotion to her beloved Church. This addition made a total of two hundred and twenty-five works of art which fill more than four large rooms and con­stitute what is called the Wightman Me­morial Gallery." 
A new room has been added this winter to those mentioned in the catalogue. This room is known as "Gallery E". In it are most of a consignment of paintings recent­ly received from Mr. Wightman. The list of paintings in the new gallery and their painters are: 
Portrait Group Peter Pourbus Interior of St. Mark's Venice Douglas Volk Madonna and Child Lorenzo di Credi Joseph and His Brethren Gerard de Lai.esse A Winter Scene Sevend Svendsen Coronation of The Blessed Virgin Michael Pacher Landscape Meyndert Hobberna An Allegorical Subject Noel Nicolan Coypel Madonna of The Rosary Carlo Maratta Madonna and Child Jan van Mabuse 
The painting on the opposite page was added to the art collection this fall through Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, Provincial, who succeeded in securing the painting from a Church in Canada. The picture, "Mary Eeceives the Body of Jesus", is 118 inches-high and 216 inches wide. Because of its size, it has been hung in the South reading room of the Library. It was painted by Joseph Aubert, a French artist, in Palestine, and was exhibited in Palestine and in France before being brought to Canada. The fol­lowing is a description of the picture: 
"Gathered about the body of Christ are His sorroT,vful Mother and a few of His faithful friends. Joseph of Arimathea supports the body and head of Jesus, Mary of Cleophas consoles the Blessed Virgin back.of whom stands the Beloved Disciple with his hand on her shoulder. Nicodemus raises the limbs of Our Savior whilst Mag­dalen wpes His blood-stained feet with her hair. At the left stands a Jew with the instruments of the crucifixion. At the right is a view of the city of Jerusalem back of Calvary, and the open- tomb. The figures are lifesize." 
TWO FOOTBALL CAPTAINS FOR '26 
\ ^^li^SB 1 ^ : • 
^^^^^^^^ 
EUGENE "RED" EDWARDS 
Notre Dame stepped out of the straight-and-narrow of tradition at the annual foot­ball banquet Dec. 6 and elected two foot­ball captains for 1926. The two are Eugene Edwards, quarterback, Weston, W. Va., and Tom Hcarden, right half-back. Green Bay, Wis. Both men are adorned with red heads and this added distinction has broadcasted their fame through the country already. 
Edwards took his preparatory work at Kiski, the prep school of Harry Stuhldreher, and the slender youth stepped into the va­cant All-American shoes this fall and per­formed most creditably. Hearden went about the job of holding off his host of com­positions at the right half berth so that at first he attracted little attention. But when matters at left half settled do-wn it was discovered that Prelli, Cody, and a group of other backs, certainly of the first order as players, were unable to slip into the job with any degree of permanency. A closer look at Hearden showed that for steady playing and consistent gains, Tom was one of the most reliable men on the team. 
The evenly distributed popularity of the football men was proved at the banquet. The vote for captain resulted in a tie be­tween Edwards and Hearden. At the sug­gestion of Coach Rockne the monogram men voted to keep both men as leaders. Mis­souri has the two-captain system and Bay­lor elected two last year, but one failed to return to school. The men will altei'­nate the captaincy on successive Saturdays during the season and the fine qualities of both are expected to maintain an un­broken morale on the squad. 
With the schedule that Coach Rockne has prepared for next year it now looks as if the two captains will have their four hands rather filled. It was not surprising to have a Green Bay man represented. Green Bay seems to be football's favorite haunt. The election of Edwards, following Stuhldreher's career here, has also given Kiski a place in the sun. The school and the team are solid behind both men and the two-captain scheme doesn't seem to be open to the dangers of an ordinary experiment. 
f^fJ^^B 
ftv ^jygMMiy 
*.,'-' 
^'^i^l 
^^^^^S%'<jrf 
g^^a^H 
THOMAS "RED" HEARDEN 

^
m 

THE ALUMNI 
p_ 
1883 
HARRY CLAIBORNE, an old student of '18 
and '19, who is doing a great deal for Notre 
Dame as secretary of the Notre Dame Club 
of Nashville sends in a few interesting items 
from the Tennessee city. FERD E. KUHN, 
'83, is president of the Nashville Club and 
as a sideline heads the shoe business of 
Xuhn, Cooper & Gsary. ROBERT S. WILSON, 
'18, got a head start from Tennessee on the 

Florida rush and is peddling real estate on the peninsula. JOHNNY WEIBEL, '25, "watch­charm guard ' of the National Champions football team and assistant coach at Vander­bilt last fall, is also studying medicine there. Mr. Claiborne is a Nashville salesman for the Cotton States Life Insurance Co. which has just occupied its new skyscraper of­fices in Nashville. 
itso 
A note that will interest the men of '90, and those before and after, is that REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, Litt. B., '90 and LL.D. '21, is continuing on the road to recovery at the Glockner Sanitarium, Colorado Springs. His last letter stated that his health is much improved and that he is in fine spirits. 
A cordial and enthusiastic letter from WILLIAM P. MCPHEE, president of the As­sociation, reached the office. of the new secretary and was a big help personally be­sides promising a big year for the whole Alumni body. 
1S94 

Among the distinguished alumni who at­tended the formal dance of the Metropolitan club of Notre Dame at the Plaza Hotel, New York, Dec. 28, were HUGH A. O'DoN-NELL, former president of the Alumni As­sociation, and JOHN T. BALFE, '20, presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
1897 

WILLIAM A. WALSH, monogram football man in '95 and elected captain of the squad in '96, was elected mayor of, Yonkers on Nov. 3, 1925, by the largest majority ever given a democratic candidate. Mr. Walsh was inaugurated Jan. 1. He is a member 
n? 
of the firm of Walsh, Baird and Smith, 16-18 South Broadway, Yonkers, N. Y. 
1898 

"Rt. Rev. Edmund F. Gibbons, Bishop of Albany, chairman of the N. C. W. C. Dept. of Laws and Legislation, announces the ap­pointment of Mr. WILLIAM F . MONTAVON, Portsmouth, 0., to be the executive head of the Department at the N. C. W. C. head­quarters. Mr. Montavon took up his duties on Nov. 15, filling the vacancy caused by the death of William J. Cochran." Mr. Montavon received an A. B. from Notre Dame in 1898. 
1902 

Father James Burns received a telegram recently announcing the death of the father of FRANK DUKETTE, A. B. '02 and LL.B. '04, who died at Mendon, Mich., Jan. 7. 
1905 

The Chicago Golfer lets slip the inter­esting information that THOMAS J. WELCH, Kewanee, 111., took enough time away from his law to annex the golf championship of the Midland Country Club at Kewanee. The Illinois town seems to have claimed another Notre Dame man. 
1906 

JAMES A. DUBBS, of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co., was the signer of a simple but eloquent slip of paper that ar­rived just as the final class notes were be­ing packed for the printers. 
1908 

FRANK X. CULL, who keeps track of the '08 men from the law offices of Bulkley, Hauxhurst, Jamison and Sharp, in Cleve­land, dropped a welcoming letter to tlie secretary's office and is getting ready to stir up the 'OSers. This is to give the 'OSers an opportunity to stir first and surprise their secretary. 
1912 

JAY L. LEE has transferred his insur­ance interests from the Phoenix Mutual Life in Hartford, Conn., to Box 415, Olean, N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. J. Dockweiler, 27 St. James Park, Los Angeles, •Calif., an­nounce the birth of John Eldredge Steams Dockweiler on Dec. 23rd, 1925. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1915 
"Mr. and Mrs. John McGovern announce the marriage of their daughter, Margaret, to DR. JOHN M. CULLIGAN on Tuesday, January fifth, nineteen hundred and twenty-six, Rochester, Minnesota." Doc Culligan, Litt. B., '15, has been associated with the Mayo clinic at Rochester. 
MAURICE T . ANDREWS, an old student from '11 to '15, writes from New York to ask whj' Notre Dame hasn't a club there. Which proves that New York must be some town, when the activities of Pres. Balfe et al escape an old Notre Dame man. A com­mittee from the New York Notre Dame club can locate Mr. Andrews at 71 Riverside Drive. Mr. Andrews has just returned from a trip abroad. 
1916 
A. H. MCCONNELL'S Dodge business in Boone, Iowa, paid its Alumni dues last week with all the pleasing appearance of pros­perity. 
TIMOTHY P. GALVIN of Hammond and '16 sent in a renewal of strong support for the Alumni Association and coming from that active source it was certainly seized upon joyfully. 
1917 

Mr. and Mrs. William Henry Wall an­nounce the marriage of their daughter Marie Jane to Mr. ROYAL HENRY BOSSHARD on Sat­urday the second of January, nineteen hun­dred and twenty-six, Antigo, Wisconsin. At home after the fifteenth of February, 386 Seneca Parkway, Rochester, New York. 
Reports from the holidays let slip the news that DICK DAILEY, Ph. B. Journa., helped to enliven the banquet of the Erie Club at the Hotel Lawrence banquet Dec. 27. Dick is practicing journalism on the Erie Daily News. 
1918 

The following information of interest, except possibly to Mr. Delaney,- was con­tained on the small but important surface of another of those yellow slips; it hails from BODiE ANDREWS: "I was glad to hear that Harold Delaney is back in Tulsa, Okla. He has owed me five dollars since 1917 and now I know where to send the bill. I'm sure he will pay, he always was so generous. SLIP MADIGAN and myself are coaching St. Mary's College, Oakland, Calif., and we hope to get back for commencement this spring. We hope to have a good N. D. meet­ing St. Patrick's Day. If you have any names of former alumni or old students residing at or near Oakland please send them. Best regards." All the N. D. men within reach who read this will find the peppy author in the vicinity of 826 Paloma Avenue, Oakland. 
1919 
"HANK" GODES, Preston, Iowa, was dis­covered on his way to Chicago not long ago to pick up some of the latest things in jazz to take back to Preston, where it is rumored, via the valuable little slips, that "Hank" has a jazz band reminiscent of Corby "rec" and one that could make Chicago turn around to stare. 
1920 

The yellow slip included in the last issue of the Alumnus appealed to DR. HENRY B. LUHN, Spokane, Washington, Captain of the football team in 1887-88, who sent in the following interesting information. 
MAURICE F . "CLIPPER" SMITH, '20, suc­ceeded Gus Dorais as Director of Athletics at Gonzaga University the season of 1925. His football team gave a most creditable ac­count of itself and both the authorities at Gonzaga and the Spokane populace are pleased and enthusiastic over his work. The football team ended the season on December 27, by defeating the strong Los Angeles club 29-0. In the Los Angeles lineup were two or three AU-American stars. 
The "Clipper" has proven himself a most able coach and thorough disciplinarian and is respected and beloved by the student body. He is now busy with the basketball team which gives promise Of holding its own with any team in the Northwest. 
Davenport, Iowa, is paying out large sums of its thrifty Iowa capital for the gilt-edged bonds of HARRY MCCULLOUGH, the Iowa news bulletin stated. 
The incriminating letterhead brought along with a check the information that JOSEPH DEWEY ROSENTHAL is the Grand Knight of St. Thomas Council No. 605, Be­loit, Wis. 
HON. MORGAN J. O'BRIEN, honorary LL.D., 120 Broadway, New York City, has been appointed one of a committee of sixty-two advisers to the Religious Motion Picture Foundation. The Foundation man­
ages the production of "reverential, artistic 
and dramatic pictures", and is a branch of 
the Harmon Foundation, Inc. 
"Features that Fit" are going over big 

and a letter from CHARLEY GRIMES, their 
editor, indicates that Charley's health is 
improving. 
1921 

"JOE" BRANDY, head coach of football at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., an­nounced that he had resigned his position at St. Thomas to accept a similar position elsewhere, according to a Chicago dispatch. Brandy recently made a trip east. He has been at St. Thomas for three years. Anyone who has lived within understandable range of the football season of 1920 doesn't have to be told anything about Joe's record at Notre Dame. 
GEORGE D. O'BRIEN seems to be having no difficulties in interpreting the law to the satisfaction of the people of Eochelle, 111., and sent the office a concrete proof of practice that certainly backed up the neat letterhead. George says he takes the Alum­nus, South Bend paper. Juggler and two Chicago papers to keep posted on Notre Dame. 
Mysterious symbols on a returned Alum­nus for GERALD J. DAILY, JR., were finally deciphered to mean that Gerald has moved from the commercial activities of the Kroger Grocery & Baking Co., Marion, Ohio, to the Daily Martin Laundry Co., Muskogee, Okla. 
GEORGE WITTERIED is now in the butter and egg business in Chicago and, according to the little yellow slip concerning George, is the original "big butter and egg man". 
RALPH SJOBERG, Ph. B., '21, second base­man on the varsity nine, is now connected with the Kewanee Boiler Co. He was recent­ly married to Miss Gertrude Geoffrier of Kewanee and can be reached at 730 Rock­well street. 
1922 

BOB GLASSCOTT, '25, utilized the yellow slip to give a better late than never re­port of the marriage of JAMES MCCABE to Miss Irma Sewell of Michigan City, which was solemnized in the Church of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame last Oct. 17 by Rev. Patrick Haggerty. EMORY TOTH was the best man. JoE DONALDSON, '23, Hammond, 
Ind., and BOB GLASSCOTT, '25, were the 
ushers. Mr. and Mrs. McCabe will be at 
home at 118 West Johnson Street, Madison, 
Wis. Jim is associated with the Certain-
teed Products Co. as manager for the Wis­
consin office. 
LOUIS LAMARR, class of 1923, and Miss 

Rose Cavanaugh, a niece of former Presi­
dent John W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C, were 
married in St. Patrick's church of South 
Bend Thanksgiving morning. Services were 
conducted by Rev. William Moloney, C. S. 
C, pastor of the church, assisted by Rev. 
William Carey, C. S. C, of Notre Dame. 
Mrs. LaMarr is a daughter of Mr. and 

Mrs. Charles Cavanaugh of Salem, Ohio. 
Mr. LaMarr resides in Chicago. After a 
wedding trip in the east, Mr. and Mrs. 
LaMarr will be at home in Chicago. 
A Christmas meeting of the AUyn & Bacon book salesmen in Chicago resurrected the oratorical ghost of RAY GALLAGHER. The former spellbinder seems to have lost none of his powers of speech and is- said to have even held an audience of book agents until the last fading accent, which is an achievement of oratory- rivaling the Breen Medal or the Indiana State Contest. JACK SCALLAN, '25, is also a member of the Allyn & Bacon staff and added more laurels to the Notre Dame division in competition with graduates from many other prominent universities. 
ED BAKER is the "big boy" at Straley's, one of Buffalo's largest surveyors. He plays golf summer and winter as usual. 
1923 

HARRY FLANNERY seems to have deserted Old Broadway for the quieter environment of 214 Jay Street, Albany, New York. A letter from the erstwhile Dome and Daily editor also includes the information that JERRY LYONS, Journalism, '24, is now the city editor of the Capitol district for the Knickerbocker Press and the Evening News of Albany. "Incidentally, if you don't know it," Harry added, "Jerry is an unusually good newspaper man and some day they'll speak of Pulitzer, Hearst, Munsey and Lyons. I further understand that EDDIE MURPHY, Journalism, '24, is now with the Grand Rapids Herald. Just before that he was with a paper in Bismarck, S. D." 
The Basket & Novelty Co. of New York has ceased to be the address of AL FICKS 
lU THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
according to the reliable postoffice authori­ties and his mail from now on is to go to 40-36 77th Street, Jackson Heights, N. Y. 
JEROME P. MARTIN, GY^&O. Bay, is drop­ping in on some of his old classmates at various places. Jerry is traveling for the West Publishing Co. of St. Paul. 
J. F. KENNEDY writes from the First National Bank of New Hampton, Iowa, en­closing a welcome contribution of the ma­terial he works with. 

RUBIN ZETLAND, Litt. B., '23, missed Al Eyan's last Alumnus by moving from 5523 North Avenue, Milwaukee, unless some post­master has done our records wrong. 
E. S. RYAN has transferred his civil engineering activities from 111 S. Poplar Street, Carbondale, 111., to Water Valley, Miss., where a hastily penciled address on his Alumnus informs us mail will reach him care Asst. Engineer. 
V. S. BROWN of Batavia, N. Y., utilized the little yellow slip to excellent advantage. One newspaper clipping was as follows: Batavia alumni of Notre Dame University and present students from this city at the University, who are home for the holidays, attended the 8:30 mass at St. Mary's church and received Holy Communion yesterday morning in memory of Edmund G. Glade, son of Mr. and Mrs. George J. Glade of No. 16 South Main Street, who died at the University last fall. The other clipping was: WILLIAM J. NEVILLE of No. 41 Porter Avenue, a graduate of the University of Notre Dame, class of 1925, will become as­sociated with the law firm of Stedman & Waterman on Jan. 4th. Mr. Neville, who was graduated from the Batavia High school, class of 1921, has been connected 
with the Traveler's Insurance Company with offices in Buffalo as an adjuster since early last summer. 
W. H. CHURCH, old student of '10 and '11 and elected in '23 to the Association, was heard from in the most approved fashion last week from the Church and Chester law offices in Elkhart. 
1924 

EUGENE F . NOON, Journalism, '24, a member of the Editorial Staff of the Notre Dame Daily in 1923, and Miss Iva C. Bay-man, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Bay-man of South Bend, were married here Thanksgiving morning by Rev. Kerndt 
Healy, C. S. C. Roger A. Noon, brother of the groom, was best man. Mr. Noon is a son of Mr. and Mrs. W. 

H. Noon of Peru, Illinois, and is at present city editor of, the Mishawaka Enterprise. Mrs. Noon is a graduate of the class of '19 of South Bend High school and is a member of the Thalia Sorority. 
Concealed in a large envelope labeled Townsend & Scoggins, Columbus, Texas, we found one of the little yellow slips from 
R. C. himself, importing the information that PAT BUELL is prospering in the lumber business, being associated with the Buell Mfg. Co., of Dallas, Texas, and that NAT POWERS of Houston is finding a little trouble with the intelligence that the Justices of the Peace display in Texas. SCOGGINS himself breaks down and confesses that the justice, county and district courts of his native states have appreciated his legal training satisfactorily. 
Missing! ALBERT SERVA, Litt. B., not at 

Josephine and Ridge Streets, Craftbn, La., 
according to the little purple hand on the 
Alumnus envelope. 
ED LUTZ is now papering Buffalo with his dad's paper and has become a junior partner in the Syracuse Wall Paper Co. 
AL BOEHM is at home in Buffalo help­ing the Worthingrton Pump Co. build the world's largest Diesel engine. 
RAY BBADY, monogram man, is with Fabian & Clendenin, lawyers, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Ray is busy Avith his law work but intends to find time to expound the merits of Notre Dame out in the Utah city. 
RONALD J. MCNAMEE, '24, sent us a talka­tive letter (if money talks) from the Spa Knitting Co., Inc., Ballston Spa, N. Y. 
Miss Zenobia Dominski of South Bend became Mrs. GEORGE H . BALDUS in the little Log Chapel on the morning of Jan. 11. Father William Gallagan officiated. Mr. Baldus' brother and Miss Dominski's sister were the attendants. The parents of both the bride and groom were present. Mr. and Mrs. Baldus will take a honeymoon in Florida after which they expect to return to South Bend. 
1925 

GILBERT UHL of New Washington, Ohio, a mtmber of the Journalism class of 1925, was united in marriage to Miss Ruth E. Kroeger, daughter of Joseph W. Kroeger 
of South Bend, in Sacred Heart Church 
Thanksgiving morning. Services were con­
ducted by Rev. John O'Hara, C. S. C. 
The bridegroom, who is the son of Mr. and Mrs. George Uhl of New Washing­ton, was well known on the campus as a member of the Track Team and of the Glee Club. Mrs. Uhl is a graduate of St. Joseph's Academy of South Bend. 
Present at the ceremony were the par­ents of the couple. Miss Margaret Uhl of New Washington and Miss Bertha Uhl of St. Mary's College also attended. George Higdon, '28, was organist for the occasion. 
After a western trip Mr. and Mrs. Uhl will be at home at 720 Forest Avenue, South Bend. 
A letter from the law firm of (M. Clyde) BROWN & DANCH (Julius J.), 729 Broad­way, Gary, Ind., confirms the report of TOM GOSS in the December issue and adds scome interesting information. The Danch member of the firm was married on the 26th day of September to Miss Gizella G. Christy, REV. JOSEPH M. TOTH, '11, officiating. The newly married couple are living at 650 Polk Street, Gary, Ind. The letter contained the sad news of the death of Steven M. Danch, brother of Julius Danch. J. BRYAN WALTHER, '25, and BERNARD M. FINNIGAN, '25, are located in the Citizens Bank BIdg., Hammond, but are in separate businesses. 
LESTER MARK has gone from South Bend to apply the scientific principles of the science of agriculture to the fertile terri­tory around Walrath, Wis. 
A New Year card from JOSEPH A. MENGER brought mingled good and bad news. Joe is still the genial advertising specialist of the Southern Messenger. He reports how­ever that MIKE NEEDHAM, who for a-while enjoyed the San Antonio environment as a salesman for the Ford and Lincoln dealer there, was taken seriously ill and operated on in Austin. 
ALFRED LODA seems to be lost in the Arkansas pines. A perfectly good issue of the Alumnus had a round trip to 205 North Adams Street, Camden, without results. 
DON AIGNER of Silver Creek, is living in Buffalo with his aunt and is the "leas­ing department" of the General Outdoor 

Victor 
Hail! QAISO!
YOUR OWN MARCH 
Old G.-ad— 

"VICTORY" "Victory March f> 
You kcow us! 

AND "HIKE SONG" 
•jrKo(r« Dame'm Band Sheet Music - 50c 
When at Notre Dame 

and dec Clnb Player Roll . ^1-00 
You bought your (Post paid in U. S. A.) 
music at Elbel's! 

Records 
HOW MANY DO YOU WANT?—FITS ANY PHONOGRAPH 
On the campus, enthusiasm is tremendous! The sample record "exceeded the fondest hopes" of the executive committee—absolutely .'the greatest college record ever! Students are ordering as high as 25 copies each. If you want yours from the first shipment, (txpeettd in Ftbrmary) just send us one dollar {$1) -postpaid anywhere in U. S. by us. 
DON'T DELAY! ORDER BY RETURN MAIL! RUSH! 
Advertising Co., formerly, in part, the Cusack Sign Go. 
The ideal combination of news and dues were enclosed in a letter from BOB FLYNN, who is working for his father in Eobin­son, III., in the oil producing business. Among the news items Bob sent are: The other day I ran into EALPH HEGEK. He tells me that he is manager of the Dodge agency at Frankfort, Ind. FRANK REESE is going to sign a life contract with Miss Mildred Gillom of Memphis on January IS. STAN BRADBURY, '24, is with Andrew Sheriff, attorney, Chicago. I am receiving dividends from Brother Cyprian's accounting classes as my father's private secretary. 
EDWARD JAMES RYAN, "The Student and the Prince", is practicing at Knox, Ind. His frequent trips to South Bend are not for 
LUXENBEMG 
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN 
The 
DOUBLE BREASTED 
Suit 
JL RUE to conservative ideas, these suits are cut correctly of plain tone blues and greys in wooIensofrichquaIity,andtail> ored the LUXENBERG way with that restraint of style dic­tated by present &shions. 
^32^0 to H2^^ 
NAT LUXENBERG ac BRO. 
37 Union Square, New York,N. Y. 
NEWARK, N. J., BRANCH 863 Broad St. 
Our style memo, book sent free on'request 
the purpose of conferring with his legal 
brethern. 
FRANCIS "BUGS" WALTHER rests during the day at 425 No. Taylor Street. In the evening he can be found in the front row of Denny's at the LaSalle. 
JOE TOOLEN is the office manager and genial business getter at Bill Sheehan's Tire Store. Business must be good for "Jess" is living at the fashionable Morningside Club. 
JOHN STOECKLEY is with the Johnson Motor Co., 914 East Sample St., South Bend. "Doc's" operations on the firm's ad­vertising are producing exceptional results. 

H. J. SPENCER, '25, seems to be connected with the Chicago Daily Journal, if letter­heads accompanying the ever-welcome re­mittance for dues means anything. "Diz", for a newspaper man, wrote less than any of his contemporaries, but his recent ad­vent into the field may explain it. An early loosening up will salve things over. 
PAUL HOEFFLER is vnth the Buffalo Cham­ber of Commerce, selling advertising. As a side-line, as though an advertising solicitor netded a sideline, he works on the advertis­ing staff of Everybody's Daily, a Buffalo Polish paper. Paul's use of the little yellow slip for locating some of his friends was certainly welcome. 
"CLIFF" POTTS is practicing at South Bend in the office of Mayor Montgomery, SIO Union Trust Building. Here is a friend at court literally and figuratively. 
ToRMEY B. DOOLING, the "student" from Mishawaka, was admitted to the Bar in South Bend, but at present, he is sojourning in Florida. 
CHANCIE SNYDEB is practicing law in Mishawaka. Mail so addressed will reach him there. 
"Russ" AKNDT has forsaken the idea of practicing law for the time being. He has an excellent position with the Mishawaka Woolen Mills. His address is 205 W. Eighth Street, Mishawaka, Ind. 
"EDDIE" LUTHER is as popular with clients as he was on the campus, which means that he is very busy. His office is at 401 Union Trust Building, South Bend. 
JOE MILLER and CHARLEY GLUCKERT have opened offices at Room 4 Odd Fellows Build­ing, South Bend. Their professional man­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
ner in handling cases is to be much 
admirtd. 

A student back from Allentown, Pa., the 
home of Muhlenberg College, says that they 
haven't gotten over the Thanksgiving upset 
that Villanova handed them Thanksgiving. 
HARRY STUHLDREHER and his chief lieuten­
and, En HUNSINGEK, have thrown the fear 
of Notre Dame into the Muhlenberg ranks 
and were the only coaches whose men could 
hold the famous Borelli, Muhlenberg star, 
who ran wild against the very formidable 
Lafayette and Lehigh ttams and was one 
of the high score men in the east. 

MAC BRULE is laboring nights, or days, as the occasion demands, in the General Electric plant at Schenectady, N. Y. JERRY TuTTLE is working in the same plant. They are living together at 305 Victory Ave. 
AUSTIN REILLY, "TUBBY" HARRINGTON, PAUL DOOLEY and HAROLD HARSTICK are teaching at Columbia College, Portland, Ore. In the few moments that they aren't engaged in wondering what to assign next, they are touring the Oregon trails in a jointly-owned Chevrolet. 
J. ANTHONY BARTLEY, erstwhile of Mon­tana, is roping in advertising for the New York Times. He is living at 64 East 34th Street with JIMMY HAYES and CHARLEY DE­BARRY, '24. 
"PA" TRAYNOR and JOHN P. LYNCH are rooming together, again. "Pa" hit an ac­counting exam flush on the jaw and is settled into a job with the New York Title and Trust Co., following a short term with the Ideal Clothing Co. "Ike" has tried sev­eral things, including classes at Columbia and the gentle art of selling stocks. Now he is going to the New York U. law school nights and reading up on the subject in a law oflnce days. He and "Pa" have a mailing address, the Clarendon Apartments, 530 Riverside Drive, New York City. 
LESTER WOLF is working for the Westing­house Electric Co. at Pittsburgh. At pres­ent he is assigned to the engineering school, which is part of the job. He is living at 746 Franklin Street. Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
PAUL SAGSTETTER and JOHN KELLEY are helping Samuel Insull build up the South Shore lines. They are living at 1109 W. Fifth Avenue, Apt. 210, Gary, Ind. 
GEORGE SHEEHE is instructing the young and ignorant at the St. Aquinas Institute 
Is This the 
Advertisement 
You Were 
Looking For? It is NOT! 
You were looking for the advertisement of something to satisfy Present Needs and make your Daily Existence more Comfortable. 
You may not Heed this Advertisement—so long as life moves along without a hitch. But there are such things as accidents and tragedies. Suppose they happen to you? What next? 
SECURITY! Quite neces­sary for happiness and con­tentment and theenjoyment of Family, Friends and the World's Goods. 
Be attentive to the next life insurance agent who comes to see you, and if he happens to represent the John Han-' cock Mutual of Boston re­member that he has behind him a Strong Company Over Sixty Years in Busi­ness whose policies are most Liberal and Safe and Secure 
in every way. 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY** or BOSTO*^ M*»SACnuft(Tt* 

of Rochester, 1127 Dewey Avenue, Roches­
ter, N. y. 
BOB HOWLAND, Oriental tourist and journalist, is in South Bend. Bob says he hears Opportunity knocking loudly but can't locate the door just now. 
LEO "DUTCH" REIDER is very busy prac­ticing at 614 Sherland Building, South Bend. Classmates forming corporations should have the benefit of his advice. 
GEORGE LAUGHLIN is receiving his mail at 7236 Euclid Ave., Chicago. George \'isited the campus late in the fall. He is as handsome and talkative as ever. 
JOHN J. SHEEHAN, "The Pride of Holy­oke", is with the bus department of Stude­baker's. Jack is living at 927 East Wash­ington Avenue, South Bend. 
FRANK HOWLAND is promoting the sale of Lucey Slicing Machines during the day and he is producing "louder and better" music every evening at the LaSalle. Mail will reach him at the Morningside Club, South Bend. 
JOHN R. MORAN is receiving mail at 506 Commercial Building, Tulsa, Okla. Jack says that he "placed" in the Marathon con­ducted by the Oklahoma Bar Examiners and that he is connected with the law firm of Hagan and Gavin in the home town. 
PROFESSOR PAUL A. RAKE is emulating Father Bolger in his attempts to make the principles of economics plain to the stu­dents of St. Gregory's College, Shawnee, Okla. Paul also succeeded in the endur­ance test promoted by the Oklahoma Ex­aminers and is now a member of the Bar there. 
"BERNIE" FINNIGAN and J. BRYAN WALT­ERS have established a flourishing law prac­tcie at Hammond, Ind. Their offices are in Suite 300 Citizens National Bank Build­ing. 

Local Alumni Clubs 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 
John T. Balfe, '20, 25 Church Street President Robert M. Anderson, '83 Vice-President Angus D. McDonald, '00 Vice-President 
P. P. McElligott, '02 Vice-President Hugh A. O Donnell, '94 Vice-President Stephen C. Willson, '23 Secretary-Treasurer Rev. Michael J. Shea, '04 Chaplain 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Eustace Cullinan, '95, Phelan BIdg., 
San Francisco, Calif President Thomas Sheridan Sheridan, '86 Vice-Piesident Joseph A. Clark, 'S6 Vice-President Frank A. Andrews, '18 Vice-President Edward P. Madigan, '20 Vice-President John S. Mclnnes, '22 Secretary-Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA 
Thos. F. Shea, '09, Tulsa President Leo. A. Schumacher, '13, Okmulgee S.c.etary 
J. Paul Loosen, '20, Okarche Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA John H. Neeson, '03, 232 City Hall President 
E. P. Gallagher, '01 Vice-President Paul Scofield, '20 Vice-President James C. O'Donnell, '14 Secretary-Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER Raymond Guppy, '11-'12, 204 Rugby Ave. 
President James Welsh, '22 Vice-President Joseph P. Flynn, '16 Secretary 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. JOSEPH 
VALLEY Kev. J. H. O'Donnell, '16 .Honorary-President Arthur L. May, '18, J. M. S. Bldg., 
South Bend, Ind President Paul Castner, '23 Vice-President Martin J. Schnur, '95 Vice-President Eugene J. O'Toole, '20 Vice-President Louis V. Harmon, '19 Secretary-Treasurer 
Continued on 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS 
Joseph B. McGlynn, '12, 120 North Main Street, East St. Louis President Eugene Cronk, '12 Secretary-Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK 
Peter Dwyer, '08 Honorary-President Leo D. Kelley, '21 President Jacob E. Eckel, '16 Secretary-Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. T. O'Connell, 
LL.D., '06 Honorary-President Thos. T. Van Aarle, '21 President John C. Cochrane, '23 Vice-President Albert J. Kranz, "17 Vice-President Kenn F. Nyhan, '22 Secretary Frank Lockhard, '19 _ Treasurer 
THE TWIN-CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB 
James P. Swift, '24. 454 McKnight Bldg., Minneapolis President Rev. Ed. O'Connor, St. Paul Vice-President 
P. W. O'Grady, '03, Minneapolis Vice-President Thos. J. Lee, Jr., *23, Minneapolis Secretary-Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John B. Barr, '24, 403 Braddock Ave President Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17 Vice-President Leonard M. Carroll, '16 Secretary Raymond J. Black, '22 Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Rev. Father Garrigan Honorary President 
E. M. Starrett, '21, 
Port Townsend, Wash President Joseph Sinnott, '08 Vice-President Louis Fritch, '19. Secretary-Treasurer 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGSTOWN 

William S. Meyer, '75 Honorary-President John J. Buckley, '20, 207 Arlington St., President Leo Holland. '99 Vice-President Edgar Raub, '23 Secretary-Treasurer 
Followine Page 




