The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
m' 
^^ 
'V^ 6^^3R'Ty^^k^>^^^*^^i^<;^5ir *' v^iA Bm|g^^»^^^<gi^Sfc. i'' "i fl 
:.;;:^ 
^^^•'r^i^'^r^fj^i^^^ga ^^» 
^^•^^^Se^^p^lH^^HfWMHBHHSQ 
M 
'-'T^^

raJK^^t^"*^"'-• •;^5f^*^^v' 



il^:fcv •.v;£,"iS^-^ f7^3 
fryyiw' -•«vii--^-*^»^^!^^2y^ 
^i 
'.if-'-VJ 

?5«,ii5ifS^aaia^''''i*"^'r 
^^ps", '\^pw:*^ ••'^>?"T^fe :;^2^ ^L.'-'i/Mr^^ ,-'~4p*<;;-i'^?cA:-j •,'-.X,-'i 


-:^:5f 
->'-v 
K^^aa 
-This book ia not to be tak«n from the Librar:^ 1 ^ \^>^ 19 24 

k^J-/i 
...i*' • 
^^6G= 


Notre Dame Alumnus 
MARCH 19 3 4 
:\^0S0$ir ''••$'-•
tm^ 

^Me -^Mt^ie, yoioK^^^e 2^^^ 
TOURIST CLASS ViA WHITE STAR MEANS SO MUCH 
On broad, open decks for a gay game or a quiet bask in the sun .. . in the delicious meals, in the quiet efficiency of every steward . . . and most of all, in the happy faces of your traveling mates, you'll see why Tourist Class via White Star means so much. Perfectly appointed cabins (on the Majestic and Olympic all former Second Class and even some former First Class space is now converted to Tourist Class.) ForpassagestoIreland.EnglandandFrance, see your local agent. His services are free. 



WHITE STAR 
INTERNATIONAL MERCANTILE MARINE NO. 1 BROADWAY, NEW YORK . . . AGENTS 
S. S. MAJESTIC 
IWorld's largest ship) 
March 16 April 13 
S. S. OLYMPIC 
March 29 ... . April 27 • 
England's largest Cabin liners 
M.V.GEORGIClnewl March 23 April 20 
M. V. BRITANNIC April 6 . . . . May 5 TOURIST CLASS RATES 
$110I"P'ONEWAY­$198'''P' ROUND TRIP 


LINE 

 COMPANY ^^ ^  EVERYWHERE "^^^ 
Toonat CUu dlnln* rouoi. oew 5L S. Hankattam 


NEW JOY IN TOURIST CLASS 
AMERICAN STYLEl 
 MUCH space for play . . .
S
o so many new luxuries and con­veniences in your stateroom . . . such beauty—and all these are yours in Tourist Class on the new Manhattan and Washington! 
It doesn't take long for Americans to find out where true value lies. They discovered in theAianhattan and Washington the American standard of living afloat. The rec­ord of these two American-built liners speaks for itself. World's fastest Cabin liners—largest ships ever built in America. 'The Af<7«­hattan and Washington with their running mates. President Harding andPresidentRoosevelt, offerweekly service to Cobh, Plymouth, Havre, Hamburg. Fares from $167 Cabin Class; $113 Tourist Class; $84.50 Third Class. 

Neu'S.S.WASHINGTON New S. S. MANHATTAN 

S. S. PBESIDENT HABDING S.S.PBESIDENT ROOSEVELT 

For full iaformation and reservations apply to your local agent or your own graduate travel service. 



UNITED STATES LINES 
Roosevelt Steamship Co., Inc ^^K\ General Agents '»°'°°"""° No. 1 Broadway, New York ^^'^~^—> 

TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
March, 1934 No. 6
voi.xn 
Fundamental Philosophy Underlying The Federal Constitution 
By Dr. WILLIAM F. ROEMER, Associate Professor of Pfiilosopfiy 
This is the summary of a paper delivered by Doctor Roemer before the February meeting of the Lay Faculty Members of the College of Arts and Letters. At the suggestion of the ALUMNUS Doctor Roemer very generously condensed hi.'s excellent paper to meet presejit publishing limitations. 
"We hold these truths to be self-e\'ident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain un­alienable Rights, that among these rights are Life, Libert}' and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Gov­ernments are instituted among Men, deri\ang their just powers from the consent of the gov­erned." 
Declaration of Independence. 1776. 

In 1789, the people of the United States gave the new nation its fun­damental law, a written constitution, stating unequivocally, 
"We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic ti-anquillity, pro­vide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of lib­erty to ourselves and our pos­terity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States." 
Preamble to the Constitution. 

In 1934, when dissatisfaction with governments and governmental forms makes Europe a battle-ground for civil insurrection, Americans are ex­amining their own form of govern­ment and studying the philosophy that underlies the principles which their early forebears recognized as a basis for the American Constitution. 
If this Constitution was destined for ages to come, for 1934 and the year 2000, the philosophy upon which its theories rest should be as sound today as it was in 1789. What jus­tification, then, is to be found for the assertion that all men are created equal? Is it the purpose of civil gov­ernment to secure men in their na­tural rights? Do governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed? Could the American federal government, for example, be­come "Fascist" or "Socialist" \vith­
out usurping rights never granted to it by the people? 
In any analysis of the American philosophy of government -one dis­covers various settled convictions which have characterized American political thought. Among the more important of these may be included: 
1.
 A settled belief in the superiority of the republican form of govern­ment. 

2.
 A reliance upon representative democracy in national affair. 

3.
 A recognition of the principle that government rests upon the consent of the governed, which consent is attested by a written constitution, whose purpose is to set up a defi­nite government, to endow it mth "grants of power," and to circum­scribe it mth limitations. 

4.
 A belief in the authority of the people—limited always by natural lam—to make and unmake the Constitution. This is known as popular sovereignty and is not of the absolute brand as many the­orists advocate. 

5.
 A steadfast allegiance to the prin­ciple that political power should be divided between the nation and the states. 

6.
 An acceptance, fairly widespread, of the theory that within each gov­ernment, federal and state, one branch should serve as a check upon the other. 

7.
 A preference for a government of laws, not of men, in order to pre­vent that despotism which usually results from the placing of rulers above the law. 

8.
 A reliance upon the principle of judicial review of the constitu­tionality of legislation. 

9.
 A determination that all classes, creeds and sections shall be held equal before the law. 


10.
 A belief in the principle of relig­ious toleration, vrith separation of Church and State. 

11.
 A belief in the superiority of local self-government over central au­thority in federal government. 

12.
 To these articles of the American political creed may be added a trust in government by political parties; in universal suffrage and the secret ballot; in economic indi­vidualism modified by the social needs of the times; in internation­al isolation from alliances and en­tanglements in European politics.' 


Of the fundamental principles in our constitutional form of govern­ment I have selected just two for particular, discussion. First, "That all men are created equal," and sec­ondly, that "Governments are insti­tuted among men deriving their just powers from the consent of the gov­erned." 
I. With regard to the first prin­ciple, we may inquire in what sense it is correct to say that all men are created equal? Does this equality of rational creatures imply a necessary political equality, or equality before the law in a democratic political so­ciety? 
A superficial examination of the proposition postulating human equal­ity immediately brings to mind many natural inequalities among men, 
•which are apt to lead the impatient student either to indict all capitalistic societies for having departed from sound fundamental theory, or else to reject the assertion of equality as a meaningless fraud. For it is obvious that men differ at birth and after­wards in the matter of their endow­ment of hereditary gifts and of those environmental factors contributing to bodily strength and mental power. Chilien are all naturally lacking in independence from parental control, and such dependence imposes on them an inequality. The child is bom into a de facto social and political society, in which the many are sub­ject to those few who wield govern­mental authority. Again, no sooner 
*Cf. Munro. W. B., The Government of the United Stales. Sri. Ed. Ch. XI,V. p. 748. 
is the adolescent advanced to the stage where he must support himself than he finds that by some necessity or contract he is placed in the state of servant toward master, or in some cases of master toward those who serve. Moreover, the adult finds in society a further inequality in the amount of property, either personal or real, which he and his fellow citi­zens possess and may legitimately acquire. Especiallj' in times of de­pression, such as at present, econom­ic inequalities abound. 
In the United States, when the Constitution was originally adopted, the negro was in practice unrecog­nized as a political and social equal of the white man. Today, too, any person of the yellow race is effective­ly prevented from becoming natural­ized as an American citizen, although a child bom of an Oriental in the United States is by birth a citizen of the United States.^ 
Finally, men are not all equal in virtue, patriotic devotion and reli­gious zeal. The slothful and disinter­ested citizen together with the vicious people, especially the criminal classes, are less valuable to their fellow-citi­zens and to the State. Hence, the distinction of aristocracy in every so­ciety is not purely artificial, but ethical and real. 

Despite these inequalities in fact, there is a true sense in which all men are created equal, and the truth is one of such primary importance that it must enter into consideration in the formulation of every theory of government, democratic or other­wise. 
Men are equal in the basic equali­ties of their common nature and per­sonality. Each man is bom of hu­man parents and he is found to pos­sess the same animal and rational nature as that of every other member of the human species. The humblest, poorest child is an image of God in the possession of those spiritual fac­ulties which make it possible for him to reason and to choose means to­wards ends. Each person who has at­tained the use of reason discovers the existence of right and wrong; of duty to self, to neighbor, and to God. He becomes conscious of no superior­ity in specific faculties in himself or in others. 
Men and women must develop their rational powers, and neither is gifted with intelligence of a funda­mentally higher order. Therefore, the personality of all men is essen­tially the same. There has been but one notable exception, in the person of the Man-God, Christ, who was in­deed not merely a human being but a Divine Person. His Mother al­though human in personality was es­pecially endowed with extraordinary privileges from on high, as we know from Revelation. But with His Vir­gin Mother, Her Divine Son chose to bear all the burdens of human equal­ity, choosing to obey, rather than ex­ercise a lawful tyranny over man. 
Furthermore, all men are equal in their destiny. For every man's des­tiny is in another life. By reason of the immortality of his soul, man's present life on earth is preparatory to an endless existence in the world beyond death. This common destiny cannot be overlooked, in one's ap­praisal of the relative value of man to man. It follows that since each of us has a God-given final end, none of us may prevent others from so liv­ing that they, may be enabled to achieve their eternal goal. No man may rightfully use another entirely to serve selfish ends. For example, any exploitation of labor by capital is seen to be contrary to the natural law. 
Therefore, men are equal in those rights and duties which flow imme­diately from nature, i. e., in natural rights and duties. Thus, all men are to be "equal before the law," since civil law is framed to protect the rights of the individual as well as those of the group. Civil Law may not run counter to natural law, and is therefore limited by natural law.' 
Early in the Christian era St. Augustine demonstrated the fallacy of the Stoic idea of absolute sover­eignty maintaining that the essential equality of men imposes a limit upon both the irresponsible liberty of the individual and upon the authority of the state. It follows that the gov­ernment of any political society must use' authority for the good of the governed.' 
In the Constitution, there is ample evidence that the framers of our fun­damental law wished to emphasize hu­man equality as a natural preroga­tive. In successive amendments to the Constitution we find explicit pro­hibitions against both national and state authorities, intended to safe­guard this natural heritage. For ex­ample. 
- Cf. Le BuSe. Francis P. Pure JurisprU' dcncc- p. 124. 
*
 Cf. St. Thomas Aquinas, Summa Thoolog­tea Prima. Sccundae, p. 95, art. 2. 

*
 Tlie same thought is concisely expressed by Dr. McCadden, in a recent article entitled "Elusive Equality," Thought, Dec 1933. p. 144. "Both the Stoic and the Christian idea of equality have persisted through the ages. In the seventeenth century, Locke, the pragmatist and radical, who taught that all men had had the Stoic form of equality and liberty in the state of nature, and that the government existed solely for the protection of property, had tried to save this kind of equality for men even after the social compact was en­tered into. 


"Through Hooker and Burke this idea of 

"No person shall .. . be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use without compensation." (Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.) 
"No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the priv­ileges or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor shall any State de­prive any person of life, liberty or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of laws." (Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.) 
The American theory of govern­ment discloses a determination to work toward the goal of a sound de­mocracy; one that is reasonably prac­tical under changing conditions. The constitutional provisions 'demanding "equality before the law" express an objective, not a fact accomplished. It is not something that exists in per­fection as yet, but something to be honestly striven for. May we not hope that the "New Deal" in Ameri­can government may bring about a closer approximation to the ideal so nobly expressed in the Constitution? 
n . The Second Principle which I have suggested for special scrutiny is,, like the first, implied in the pre­amble to the Constitution, and it is expressly stated in the Declaration: that it is the right of the people to "ordain and establish" their own form of government inasmuch as "governments derive their just pow­ers from the consent of the gov­erned." A detailed explanation of this propostition would involve a prelim­inary interpretation of the genetic origin of civil society and of law, along with a study of human person­ality and of sovereignty. For such more exhaustive analyses of the prin­ciple of authority, I would call atten­tion to the writings of Chief Justice John Marshall, as weir as of that dis­tinguished philosopher Orestes A. Brownson, whose earthly remains lie in the Church at Notre Dame. And especially of those immortal philoso­
the essential equality of men stretched into and across the eighteenth century. When Jef­ferson came to write the American Declara­tion of Independence, he did not follow the French, be did not draw any inspiration from Rousseau; moreover, he was not influenced by the community tyranny of the Puritans. He had studied not only Locke, who is often credited with inspiring much of the Declara­tion, but also fllmer. who had summarized Bellarmine; what is more, Locke himself bad been influenced markedly by Hooker, and it is this influence, rather than the social-compact strain in Locke, which seems to have affected Jefferson. 
"Consequently, we find the Declaration of Independence procluming all men to be equal becmnse they all retain certain rights even after the formation of the state." 
phers, Cardinal Bellarmine, St. Thom­as Aquinas and Suarez. 
What I would like to submit to your attention within the short space allowed me by the Editor of the ALUMNUS, is a point always empha­sized in Scholastic philosophy, but too often ignored or misunderstood by students unacquainted with the exact philosophy underlying the prin­ciple, that "governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed." I wish particularly to condemn that fatal fallacy in the thought of so many political theorists which consists in neglecting to in­quire into the ultimate origin of all authority, whenever they discuss pop­ular sovereigntj'. 
Granting that "all men are created equal," w^hence does that authority originate which is delegated by the people to the government? Omitting mention of a variety of attempts to explain the oi-igin of this authority on purely humanistic grounds none of which succeeds in satisfying the rigorous requirements of supra-human authority, let me call to mind the Christian reasoning which rests on the premise that all authority comes ultimately from the Creator of men. 
Man's nature is such that it can­not be a haphazard accident of evo­lution but a design and a ci'eation of God. Examining this nature, we find the answer to this question deal­ing with authority in societj'. Be­ginning with an analysis of man's rational nature we find a natural in­clination in men for associating with others and seeking corporate profit in social and political cooperation for attaining their common ends. 
We agree with -Aristotle that man is a social animal and that human as­sociations are natural, rather than purely artificial. This is a statement of fact observable by anybody who has read the history of civilization. Society of some sort is a demand of nature and the individual is naturally a part of society. Hence, the indi­vidual in society is natui-ally subor-, dinate to society, but not completely, since it is not his final end. because he is possessed of faculties.which ex-. tend beyond society,'faculties which "reach out to that vei-y end to which the whole world and society itself are directed and to which they are completely subordinated, the Infinite Good, God, the Creator and Ruler of the universe."' 
- Cf. St. Thomas Aquinas-, Dc Ket/ttiiitn­

I'rhicii'iiin, Ch. I: and his Sttiitma c:tntra Gcii­
lilm. Lib. Ill, cc. ill, 112, 
•Suarez, (in Oc Lriiihim lib. HI, c. a. n. 5) summarizes briefly the manner of derivation of authority from Go<l: "This power (civil auth­ority) is Krante<l by Go4l. not thix>UKh act or concession distinct from creation, since such concession would have to be made limwn by 
GIPP ON THE AIR 
Commemorating the third an­niversary of the death of Knute~ 
K. Rockne, Station WLW, owned by the Crosley Radio Corporation of Cincinnati, will oh March 30 at 6:30 P. M., Eastern Standard Time, bring to radio listeners a series of flashbacks based on the mem­orable exploits of George Gipp. The program is being arranged by Bob Newhall, sports com­mentator for the station, with the assistance of John M. "Botts" Crowley, '28, of Cin­cinnati. 
A conflict of features pre­vents this program from being broadcast on March 31 which is, of course, the actual anni­versary of Rock's death. 

This God-given nature of man, functioning normally brings civil so­ciety into existence. But civil society is impossible without authority. Therefore, God Who wills some sort of civil society by creating a socially-tending nature, also implicitly wills authority. For whoever intelligently wills an end, at the same time wills the means necessarj' to attain that . end. Authority in the state is there­fore from God. In other words, He confers on men socially united, that prerogative of authority, without which His intentions and plans of so­cial union for men could never be at­tained. By the same token, we de­rive the valid concept of social jus­tice.' 
This philosophy implicitly underlies the principle stated in the Declara­tion of Independence: that men are endowed by their Creator with cer­tain inalienable rights, to secure which governments are instituted among men, and that governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. Consequently, the people have the right to designate their government officers, in whom authority is reposed. There is no doubt that in this matter of natural rights the framers of the Federal Constitution were intent upon deriv­ing a fundamental law for the new nation which should be plainly in ac­cord with the designs of Almighty God. 
It is very much to be regretted that 

Revelation, which is clearly not the case. Be­sides untler such conilitions this power of jurisdiction would not be a natural power. It is Kiven. therefore, as one of the properties consetiuent to nature, i,e., by means of a dic­tate of reason dcclanitivc of the fact that God has made sufficient provisions for the human race and consetiuentiy has pivcn it whatever power is necessary for its conservation and proper Kovemment," 
in the more recent past, so many of 
the American people should have for­
gotten the reverent respect which 
should obtain in regard to natural 
rights. Natural Law, indeed, for mil­
lions of our countrymen is an un­
known concept and is quite generally 
repudiated by the intelligentia, who 
regard it as of no absolute value in 
relation to government or to God 
Himself. 
In the peaceful revolution brought about by the force of public opinion and popular demand in 1933 and 1934 it should be repeatedly brought to the attention of college graduates as well as undergraduate students, that our form of government in the United States rests upon the most stable and solid foundations of natural law, and that we should bend our efforts to maintain a true democracy in this land which has been so blessed with the plentiful gifts of nature. It is in this hope that the people of this na­tion have given approval to and con­fidence in the President's program. They do not regard Mr. Roosevelt as a dictator even though more and more emergency powers are given to him for the sake of expediting recovery, reconstruction and reform. .4nd the practical restrictions which his ad­ministration has laid upon that "rug­ged individualism" whose real effects have proved to be disastrous to the laboring classes, are nothing more than restraints applied in the inter­est of an economic and financial equil­ibrium which is consistent with politi­cal equality. For economic, financial and industrial slavery''aCre incompat­ible with the principles of .\merican democracy and equality. 
SUGGESTED READINGS 

The Revival of Natural Law Con­cepts, Chas. Grove Haines. 
.1 Short Constitutional History of the United States, F. N.- Thorpe. 
The Critical Period of Atnerican History, John Fiske. 
The Declaration of Independence, 

Carl Becker. 
Economic Interpretation of the Con­stitution of the United States, Chas. 
A. Beard. 
American Democracy and Catholic Doctrine (International Truth Soc­iety, New York), Sylvester McNa­mara. 
• Democracy and Bellarmine, J. Ra-. ger. 
National Ideals Historically Traced, 

A. B. Hart. 
The American Nation, Clarence Manion. 
Scope of a Realistic Philosophy of Society, Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, THE NOTRE DAME .A.LUMNUS, February, 1934. 
174 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1934 


THE DEATH OF CHARLES WIGHTMAN 
By REV. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, CS.C, '90 
It was a rare, mellow, generous, gracious and expansive gentleman 
•who passed away when Charles A. Wightman died in California on Jan­uary 14th. 
Like many other Americans who have become patrons of art, Mr. "Wightman laid the foundations of his fortune in another field. In Evan­ston, Illinois, he created and devel­oped a real estate business which 
•was among the large and remarkable enterprises of its kind, and for over fifty years Mr. Wightman was the First President of the Real Estate Board of Evanston. 
His education had been altogether at Northwestern University and all his life long there was a strong cul­
•tural side to his performances. He was an enthusiastic admirer of rare and precious old volumes and a 
keen judge of printing, illustrations and book-binding. Anyone who saw him caress the old favorites with which his library was so richly fur­nished would understand that here was a connoisseur indeed. He was also a collector of first editions and illuminated manuscripts. 
Mr. Wightman is best known among us at Notre Dame for his fine enthusiasm for gathering together beautiful pictures, particularly reli­gious pictures and mostly of the Renaissance period. In this also he attained a widespread fame and was regarded in Chicago as one of the chief students and promoters of painting and printing especially. 
It is with fullest appreciation that Notre Dame acknowledges his gen­erosity to her. Out of the collection of fully 150 pictures secured by pur­chase from Canada only 100 survived the critical examination to which they were submitted. Through the Rev. 
Dom Gerrer, O.S.B., a friend of Mr. Wightman and of the University, the interest of the Evanston connois­seur was aroused in Notre Dame's collection, and from time to time he turned over as many as 150 can­vasses of very remarkable character. As a result it may safely be asserted that our campus enjoys probably the best college art gallery in the coun­try. 
To the end of his days Mr. Wight-man continued to manifest an enthu­siastic and practical interest in this collection. Even on his occasional journeys from California to his old home in Evanston; he never failed to visit these canvasses. 
This princely gift was nothing un­usual in the life of the generous donor, but rather entirely character­istic of his whole career. It was said among his friends that he never re­fused a request or a service if it -were 

This painting, "Madonna and Christ Child," by Cav. Carlo Cignani, eminent Italian, is one of the many which Charles A. Wightman presented to Notre Dame. Due to Mr. Wightman's generosity, Notre Dane ha-i today the outstanding college art gallery in the country. Cav. Cignani, of the School of Bologna, was bom May 15, 16S8; died Sept. 6, 1719. 
within his power to grant it; natural­ly a man like this enjoyed in extraor­dinary measure the confidence and admiration of his fellow townsmen. His admirable and devoted wife had preceded him to the grave by exactly nine years to the day. His daughters, Mrs. Catherine Sheehan, and Mar­garet Wightman, of Los Angeles, and Mrs. Alice Smith, and Mrs. Rosemary Wescott, of Evanston, enjoyed and fully returned the extraordinary af­fection their father lavished upon them. Mr. Wightman had apparently a genius for friendship and received a fine devotion from those to whom he gave his confidence. He was most cordial by nature and loved to meet and entei-tain those of similar tastes. 
The Wightman Memorial Art Gal­lery exists because of Mr. Wight-man's devotion to his family, but es­pecially his wife to whom it is a rare and beautiful monument. Mr. Wight-man was a prominent Mason. His portrait, painted by Father Gregorj' Gerrer, hangs in the Gallery. 
Boole Review 

Because Mammoth Cave is a center of national interest, the book. Cave Life in Kentucky, Mainly in the Mam­moth Cave Region, is of wider appeal than its technical nature might imply. Originally published in the American Midland Naturalist of which Rev. J. 
A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, is editor, this intriguing material has now been gathered into an attractively printed and bound volume. The printing was done by the University Press at Notre Dame under the special direction of Dr. Theodor K. Just, assistant profes­sor of biology at the University and Father Nieuwland's valued assistant in publishing the American Midland Naturalist. 
Cave Life in Kentuck, Mainly in the Mammoth Cave Region was writ­ten largely by Vernon Bailey of the Bureau of Biological Survey of the United States Department of Agri­culture. The chapter on birds was written by Mrs. Florence Merriam Bailey in cooperation with the U. S. Biological Survey and the chapter on invertebrates by Leonard Giovannoli, then of the Kentucky Geological Sur­vey. The manuscript was subitted to the Midland Naturalist through the courtesy of Paul G. Reddington, chief of the U. S. Biological Survey. Wil­lard Rouse Jillson, director of the Kentucky Geological Survey, has a leading part in its preparation. 
The volume may be obtained from the University Press, Notre Dame, Indiana for $1.25 postpaid. 

UNIVERSITY EMPLOVS 521 STUDENTS 
Five hundred and twenty-one Notre ployed in the spacious Notre Dame Dame students are working their way dining halls, 285 students being used through school doing everything from to set up the tables, serve meals, and washing blackboards to "slinging to work in the kitchens and the cafe­hash" in the University dining halls, teria. according to figures made public by 
Among the other student jobs are Comptroller Francis Lloyd. 
the following: assistant to the guest In addition to the 521 employed by master in the Administration build­the University, work has been ob­ing; editors, art and literary, of the 
tained for 30 students in South Bend, student publications; assistants in the and approximately 45 have obtained library who serve as guides, archiv­their own employment in South Bend. 
ists, and circulation desk helpers; Twenty have been given concessions telephone operators; chauffeurs; mo­on the campus to sell Notre Dame vie operators, scene shifters and elec­jewelry, pictures, Christmas cards, tricians for the University theater; commencement invitations, and other secretarys to professors and ofiicials; articles. 
mail carriers for the halls on the 
The 521 employed by the University campus, mailing clerks to handle de­represent an increase of 81 students tails of mailing the daily Religious over last year, and a total cost to the Bulletin; blackboard cleaners and lab­University of approximately $150,000 
oratory assistants in science hall; for the year. The jobs are open only mounters of plants in the department to upperclassmen who demonstrate a of zoology, prefects in the residence need of financial aid, whose accounts halls, supervisor of the recreation are in good standing, and whose halls, clerks in the candy and book academic and disciplinary records are stores, gymnasium workers, mimeo­satisfactory. 
graph operators, and power house More than half of the 521 are em­workers. 
Universal Notre Dame ^^ Night . . . 
Monday, April 16th 
Notre Dame men the world over will he '^T meeting that night. Make your plans now. 
The Alumni office will be glad to help in procuring 
speakers from the campus and in any other possible way. 
Expensive food or entertainment isn't necessary. It's the 
spirit and the loyalty that count. 

Appoint your committee now. Arrange a program 
with a purpose. And don't forget the boys who are 

prospective students. 

Despite the regular Lenten let­down in campus activities, under­graduate groups continued, during February, to function with enough efficiency to produce several achieve­ments. Most prominent: 
SCRIP: the second edition of Scrij) for the school year appeared Febru­ary 16. Dedicated to the memorj' of the late Professor Charles Phillips, the memorial issue presented the writings of a group of outstanding figures in the worlds of education, literature, drama, and journalism. In­cluded in the list of contributors were six men from Notre Dame: The Reverend John F. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University; Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C. of the editorial board of the Ave Maria; Professors Stephen Ronay and Norbert Engels of the depart­ment of English; Paul F. McManus, '34, editor of Scrip, and G. Albert Lawton, '35, staff member. 
Contributors who had associated with Mr. Phillips in other walks of life, and who wrote of him as they knew him, include: Brother Leo, . Dean of St. Mary's College, Oakland; Miss Margaret Anglin, noted actress and recipient of the Laetare Medal; Margaret .\yer Barnes, Pulitzer Prize winner, author of Within This Pres­
• ent; Sigismund Stojowski, to whom Professor Phillips' last book was ded­icated; Maurice T. Andrews, an asso­ciate of Phillips in the Red Cross service in Poland; James Louis Small, associate of Phillips in K. of C. work during the war. 
Serving as a frontispiece was a portrait of Professor Phillips done by William Dusch, '34, a student in the Art department. 
ACADEMY OF SCIENCE: The science group held its 100th meeting the evening of Februarj' 5th. Or­ganized in September, 1926, the Academy has . continued for eight years as an honorary scholastic so­ciety. Speakers at the 100th anni­versary banquet included the Rever­end Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, Dean of the College of Science, and moderator of the club; Reverend Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, former president of the University; and Mr. Henry Froning, head of the depart­ment of chemistr}-. 








CAMPUS 
PRIZE WINNER: William New­berrj', '34, of -Mliance, Nebraska, a senior in the department of architec­tural design, won the Warren Prize, awarded by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design. Newberry's esquisse in the problem, "A World Trade Mart," was awarded first place by a jury of critics over entries from all parts of the country. The prize is the second won by a Notre Dame architectural student within a year. Richard Kelly, '34, Neenah, Wis., a classmate of Newberry's, was awarded the Spering Prize last June by the Beaux Arts Institute. 
DEBATE: An affirmative two-man team of Hugh F. Fitzgerald and Wil­liam Kirby defeated the negative team of New York University in a debate at Notre Dame, February 10th. The question: "Resolved, that the powei-s of the president should be substantially increased as a settled policy." 
-A. negative team composed of John 
J. O'Connor and John J. Locher, both seniors in the A.B. school, won a i-adio debate from the Kent College of Law affirmative team early in Feb­ruary. The debate, broadcast over a Chicago station, was decided by the audience on ballots mailed to the station. 
The four debaters, Kirby, Fitzger­ald, Locher, and O'Connor, were en­tered in an annual collegiate debate tournament sponsored by the Uni­versity of Iowa at Iowa City, March 2nd and 3rd. Kirby and Fitzgerald were to argue the affinnative side of the regular question, with Locher and O'Connor arguing the negative side. 
WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY: the annual Washington's Birthday exer­cises went off strictly along tradi­tional lines, except that the class of '34 did not produce a Washington's Day ode.' Howard T. Waldron, a senior in the College of Arts and Let­ters, and a resident of Trenton, N. J., was chairman of the student com­mittee in charge of arrangements. 
Hugh F. Fitzgerald, of Brooklyn, also an A.B. senior, delivered the appreciation address on Washington, entitling his address "Washington — Eternal Inspiration." 
Class president James V. Moscow, 

By JIM KEARNS, '34 
a Chicagoan, senior in the College of Commerce, made the presentation of the flag to the Reverend John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, \-ice-president of the University, who accepted in the name of the Universtiy. 
LECTURES: Three outstanding lecturers addressed Washington hal! audiences early in February. The first, Viljahmur Steffanson, famed arctic explorer, spoke of the "civilza­tion lines" of the earth from past ages to the present. He spoke at some length of the arctic regions, of his personal experiences in those re­gions, and of the great advantage air travel has brought to exploration. 
The second lecturer was William Beebe, well known naturalist and ex­plorer. Beebe demonstrated the use of his diving bell, the "Bathysphere," and showed specimens of his findings in under-sea studies. 
The third speaker was Colonel Charles Sweeny, Notre Dame '89. Colonel Sweny, at present a member of the French Foreign Legion, spoke of his personal experiences as a pro­fessional soldier. Veteran of many engagements, holder of 18 decora­tions won in the French air service during the World War, Col. Sweeny gave an intimate and first hand pic­ture of the life of a professional sol­dier. 
MISCELLANEOUS: Chairma n Shields, '34, of the S. A. C, made arrangements for a student trip to the Marquette basketball game in Milwaukee, March 10 . . . the price is $5.50 — including round trip in busses and admission to the game. . . . the accommodations were limited by the heavy demand for tickets in Milwaukee .. . the Junior Prom, held February 9th, featured Ted Weems' orchestra and a profit of $57.00 . . . the profit went to the mission fund . . . 321 couples attended the dance .. . the University Theatre will re­vive "Gold In The Hills" early in April . . . the melodrama scored a big hit here two years ago . . . fig­ures released following the semester examinations revealed that 173 stu­dents out of the total of 2548 were on probation . . .which is just 6.8% . . . the third annual Bengal Boxing Show sponsored by The Scholastic, will be staged March 23rd. 


# ATHLETICS • 
=8y JOSEPH PETRITZ= 
BULLETIN 

Notre Dame lost to Marquette 21­20, at Milwaukee, and to Minnesota, 43-41, at Minneapolis, in the last two basketball games of the season. Both games were thrillers. The Minnesota fracas went into an overtime period. 
The basketball season brought to Notre Dame and to Coach George Keogan new records and new laurels with each succeeding game. 
The students and home crowds saw Capt. Ed (Moose) Krause, Joe Voeg­ele, and Leo Crowe close their home careers in a blaze of glory against Ohio State by scoring 28 of Notre Dame's 33 points in a 33 to 21 vic­tory. 
Followers of the Irish have also seen the following records estab­lished : 
1.
 An all-time Notre Dame winning record of 22 straight games, 11 last season and 11 this season. 

2.
 An all-time Notre Dame winning record of 16 home games, five last season and 11 this season. 

3.
 A record of six Big Ten victories in seven starts, including an 11-point win over Purdue, the conference champion. 

4.
 A season's record of 20 victories in 24 games, 13 home victories in 14 home games. 


.5. A two-year record of 31 victories in 35 games, and 17 home victories in 18 home games. 
6. Two offers from Madison Square Garden for post season games with 
C.C.N.Y. and N.Y.U., both of which were rejected by the Notre Dame atheltic board of control. It is likely however, that N.Y.U. will be on the regular schedule next year. 
7.
 A new all-time individual scor­ing record of 22 points by Capt. Ed Krause, all-American center of the past two seasons, made against Min­nesota at Notre Dame. 

8.
 New home and total attendance records of 53,000 and 103,800 respect­ively. 


The record up to the game with Valparaiso has been taken care of in previous issues. The Valpo game, a 27 to 25 victory for Notre Dame, was typical of the after - examination games at Notre Dame for many years. The regulars were still won­dering about their marks and Coach Keogan had to send in the speed art­ist reserves to win the game. 
Detroit alumni turned out in large numbers, along with enough other in­terested persons to give that city its largest basketball crowd in history, more than 4,500 persons. Notre Dame won easily from the U. of D., 36 to 17. 
Capt. Ed Krause shot 22 points in the 34 minutes he played against Min­nesota to oifset the great one-handed shooting of Eoscoe of Minnesota which netted 16 points, and to win a 43 to 34 victory at home for the Irish. 
A swing East resulted in two vic­tories, one over Xavier at Cincinnati, 25 to 15, after a hectic first half; and a 42 to 33 win from Temple at Phila­delphia. In the Minnesota, Xavier, and Temple games Marty Peters made ten points in 20 minutes of play, a total of 30 points for an actual game and a half. 
Pittsburgh, Notre Dame's basket­ball jinx, caught the Irish with a great exhibition of defensive play, winning a 21 to 17 game on the Notre Dame floor. It was the first at home defeat for the Irish in 17 home starts. Pitt used three men to guard Krause on the pivot line. One stood behind him, two others broke in from the sides whenever the ball was passed into Krause, and he was stopped, jell­ing the Irish offense. 
Michigan State, which previously held Notre Dame to a triple overtime victory at Lansing, was an easy vic­tim, 28 to 19, in the next home game. Butler showed a ten-point improve­ment on its own floor to hold Notre Dame to a 34 to 24 victory. Ohio State, last year's Big Ten co-champ­ions, closed the home season with a 33 to 21 victory for the Irish. Ted Eosequist, Buckeye guard and star football tackle found Krause more than he could handle, going out on fouls after four minutes of play. 
Coach Keogan used the Michigan State game to experiment and to show local fans what the 1934-35 team will look like. He used his seniors very sparingly. The lineup for next year, on the basis of that game will find Marty Peters, the Peoria giant, at center; Johnny Ford of Indianapolis, and Joe O'Kane of Washington, Ind., or Johnny Jordan of Chicago at for­wards; and Don Allen of Chicago and George Ireland of Madison, Wis., at guards. Ford and O'Kane worked nicely together, appearing very fast on offense and very aggressive on defense. More often than not they prevented the Spartans from bring­ing the ball across the middle line, and not once did they let a man get past them when they attempted their go-gettem tactics. 

TRACK 
Coach John P. Nicholson succumbed 

to the usual Illinois jinx but never­
theless Notre Dame is in the win­ning column with two dual victories to one defeat in track to date this year. 
The Irish won their opening meet from Marquette, 57 to 38. Don Elser, who has been practicing most of the winter with the basketball team and who had not thrown the shot pre­viously, put out a toss of 46 feet 2 inches, to set a new record for Notre Dame men. Francis (Mike) Layden, brother "of Elmer, won both the high and low hurdles in near-record time. He subsequently pulled a tendon slightly and went on the shelf for the remainder of the indoor season. 
The Illinois meet saw Notre Dame come within the proverbial ace of vic­tory. Illinois had a typically well-balanced team, one which knocked off eight first places in 12 events. But such was Notre Dame's tea m strength, the Irish lost by only 55 1-3 to 48 2-3. Had Layden run, the score would have been different, for his time against Marquette was one-fifth of a - second faster than the Illinois meet time in the high hurdles and as good as the Illinois time in the lows. The mini took 14 points in the two barrier events. 
The latest dual meet, with Ohio State, showed remarkable improve-"­ment in form throughout the Irish team. Notre Dame won, 71 to 33. 
In three meets, three Notre Dame records have been broken by sopho­mores. George Meagher has twice broken the broad jumping mark with leaps of 23 feet 3% inches against Illinois and 23 feet 5% inches against Ohio State. He also halds the gym­nasium record. Elser, as has been recorded, brokethe shot put record. 
Leo McFarlane, sophomore two-miler, came within three seconds of the Notre Dame record in his event, finishing in nine minutes 33.3 seconds against Illinois. He never ran in high school and promises to develop into one of the best distance men in the country under the able tutelage of Coach Nicholson. 

FOOTBALL 

Spring football got under way Thursday, March 8, with nearly 300 men out. More would have been on hand if they could have been equipped on such short notice, Elmer Layden, 
(Continuc<l on Pase 189) 

BtJFFALO 
The Buffalo Alumni organization has recently undergone a change of administration. Annual election was held in December with these results: President—Henrj' L. Bums, '29, 191 Euclid Ave.; ^^ce-president—Robert Moore, '30; secretary—Fi-anklin O'Marah, '30, 1165 Delaware Ave.; treasurer—John Uebbing, '24. Board of Governors: The officers plus: George Dapson, Joseph Shea, Gordon Bennett, Leo Freitas, Paul Hoeffler, Martin Ryan, Jay Lee, James Irwin, and Carlos Frank. 
The first meeting on Jan. 10, 1934, was the best attended business meet­ing in the history of the club. Plans for the coming year were discussed. A stag party is to be held in St. Louis School Hall on Februai-y 7th. Future activities include: Rockne Mass and Communion, Universal Notre Dame Night, and an Easter Dance. An employment bureau has been established with John Uebbing, Liberty Bank Bldg., as the chief. 
Personals: New Potential Notie Damers: Edward William Jenkins, son of Gus; Thomas G. Bennet, son of Gordon; Kevin Franklin O'Marah, son of J. Franklin. 
Leo Freitas has moved to Dallas, Texas, to open a branch for the Fed­ders Mfg. Co. 
George Doyle is a government man now—^with the Home Owners Loan Corp. 
Gordon Bennett. 
CALUMET REGION 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region gathered at a bachelor dinner on February 2 to do honor to their star member and champion steam roller jockey, Timo­thy Patrick Galvin, of Hammond, whose marriage to Miss Graziella Chevigny was the big event of Feb­ruary 7. Only a slim newspaper clipping as to the dinner has come to the Alumni Office, but it isn't hard to imagine that the partj' was a considerable success. 
The marriage took place on Febru­ary 7 in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. Frank J. Galvin, '23, was the best man, and Jack Che\'igny, '31, was present. Rev. Edward J. Mun­govan, pastor of All Saints' Church, Hammond, officiated. 
CHICAGO 
Elmer Layden was officially given the keys to the City of Chicago at the annual dinner of the local Notre Dame alumni club in February. 



ALUMNI CLUBS 
Mayor Edward J. Kelly, speaking to 400 Notre Dame alumni in the Main Dining room of the Chicago Athletic Association, turned to Notre Dame's new athletic director and personally offered Chicago's good will. 
"We think of Notre Dame as one of our home town colleges," he said. "You will find that the doors in Chi­cago will open gladly to you and your team." 
Mayor Kelly was one of a long list of personages who spoke at what Byron Kanaley called the Chicago club's greatest and best dinner. His Excellency, Bishop Sheil, AV a r r e n Brown, Arch Ward, Eddie Geiger, Joe McCarthy, Howard Mann and many others replied to the introduc­tions of able Toastmaster Jerome Crowley. 
Layden's reply to the two hours of laudatory and optimistic speech-mak­ing was short. Merely pledging his enthusiasm, he promised his best ef­forts, asked for alumni cooperation, and indicated that he would like to bring his Fighting Irish to Chicago for a game at Soldiers' Field. 
Each February at the scene of the annual banquet the Chicago club holds an election of officers. This year James McNicholas was named president. It was the only contested office on the ballot, with Paul Cona­ghan running against him. Other of­ficers for the year are: Honorarj' President, Daniel J. O'Connor; First Vice-President, John Montague; Sec­ond Vice-President, John W. Scallan; Financial Secretarj', Neil C. Hurley, Jr.; Treasurer, William P. Kearney; and to the Board of Governors, Clif­ford Noonan and George Brautigan. 
Retiring president Austin Mc-Nichols turned the club over to the new regime and James McNicholas, in the name of the new officers, briefly thanked the members and looked forward to a continuation of the present policies. 
The dinner swept aside all pre­vious records for attendance and the largest crowd that has ever turned out to an annual meeting was on hand to greet Notre Dame's new coach. 
Bishop Sheil, head of the Catho­lic Youth organization of the Chica­go archdiocese, coming to the dinner against the admonitions of his doctor, spoke on the influence of a Notre Dame coach upon the minds of younger Catholic boys. He paid com­pliments to two Notre Dame gradu­ates, both of whom are now associ­ated with him in CYO work—Jack Elder and Paul Host. 
-Also present was Coach Dick Han­ley of Northwestern. Paying a neat, appropriate tribute to Hunk Ander­son, while welcoming the new coach, he received one of the biggest hands on the evening's program — second only in volume of noise to the four minute ovation that greeted Elmer Layden. 
Sports editors from every Chicago newspaper were on hand to make speeches. In the crowd about the tables were scores of successful Noti-e Dame graduates in business, politics, law, journalism, medicine. Toastmaster Crowley, whose intro­ductions set the key-note of the eve­ning, at one time called for bows' from fifteen or t\venty of the club members in the audience. 
Neil C. Hurley, Jr., '32, 
Secretary. 
An unknown correspondent sends the following news from Chicago: 
Joseph Pulitzer McCarthy, '33, and his brother Florence J., '32, are shar­ing an apartment on Chicago's West Side. The former is covering the Wynekoop Case for the Chicago Eve­ning American. The latter spends his spare time "taking" Jim Igoe on the bowling alleys. 
Vernon Rickard, '24, is the popular tenor who has been heard over radio station WBBM. His Sunday evening concerts have been a sensation, and guests of the Edgewater Beach Hotel are taking steps to keep the star with them. Harry Sosnik's orchestra ac­companies him. 
Pat Crowley, '33, is writing a novel the title of which is "Otto, an unruly office boy," or "Crowley's Otto." 
The only time-out Britz has taken from the Stock Exchange has been to attend the wedding of Joe Petritz. 
The Rosary College Senior Ball, February 2, looked more like a Notre Dame reunion than a Rosary College dance. Among the guests were: Er­nie Hechinger, '32; Frank Oberkoet­ter, '32; Jack O'Shaughnessy, '33; Jim O'Shaughnessy, '32; Gene Cal­houn, '32; Jim Boyle, '31; Dreux, Linskey, and Jaeger, '33; Bill Doyle, '34; and several undergrads whose names the ^vriter does not know. 
The Notre Dame dinner, Februaiy 8, was a huge success. Mr. Jerome J. Crowley, toastmaster par excellence, had the situation well in hand. Mr. Elmer Layden was well feted. 
Everj-one at the dinner looked pale 

March, 193 i 179 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
and wan alongside Fred Snite who had just returned from Miami with a fresh coat of tan. 
CLEVELAND Dear Jim: 
Your wandering correspondent is back after about a four months' cruise in the wilds of Pennsylvania, but from all the information my man "Winchell" Haas has been taking good care of the reports concerning the activities of the Cleveland Club. 
The Rev. Fulton J. Sheen of Cath­olic University gave a lecture here January 30th under the auspices of the alumnae and alumni of Catholic Universities and our Club gave the affair very active support. 
Stan Cofall, star halfback at N. D. in the "days that used to be," was re­cently honored by being named the speaker of the evening at the John Carroll College Football Banquet. His subject there was the much-discussed "Notre Dame System." If anyone knows just what that is, I'm sure Stan does, and from all information received he put it over in grand style. In fact, he was so good that he was later drafted for the same honor at Parma High School Football Banquet. 
Al Grisanti, former N. D. track man, seems not to have lost his old knack of quick starts, because my op­erative informs me that at a recent house-party on the east side he dem­onsti-ated to all those present (in reg­ular track attire too) just how Elder used to get out of the holes so quick­ly. Dan Salmon can be located in the Police Prosecutor's office. One of his first cases was prosecuting our own Jim DriscoU, the insurance mag­nate, for reckless driving. Jim was fined ?10.00 and costs, with both suspended. 
The only place we see William (Bill) Gibbons any more is in Church. The same aplies to Al Som­mei-s. What do you say, Bill and Al, to adding the Monday N. D. luncheon to your calendar? 
On going through some docket books the other day in the Old Coun­ty Court House, we discovered that Joe Daley, who has also been among the missing, is now associated with a leading law firm here. Jerry Miller, Assistant County Prosecutor, has gone agricula, and has moved his family (dog and all) out to Solon. It is a long ride, Jerrj',—especially late at night after a "tuff" party, and we all hope that at least the dog rec­ognizes you upon your return. In­cidentally, his brother Harry (Red) Miller, National Alumni Prexy, is convalescing from a recent illness. 
The rebel, "Chet" Brumleve, is having a hard time catching up on his sleep since the new addition (Benedict) arrived. Walt Rauber, another missing link of our club, is back from a sojourn at Johnstown, Pa. Now that there was no re­occurrence of the flood, we hope to see more of him. Cy (Doc, if you please) Caldwell, is still pulling teeth and recently gave Jim DriscoU's bridge work a complete overhauling. We noticed that since stocks are be­coming more active, Joe Butler's hair is taking on a distinctive looking grayish hue. Jim Callahan is floor manager for May Company, with mil­lions of beautiful girls working for him. Pretty soft, huh? 
Clayt Leroux's father is a better supporter of N. D. than most gradu­ates. He already has a bet on every game for next Fall. As a matter of fact, he seems to be able to give out more good info about N. D. than most Alumni. 
The three O'Neil brothers, Bill, Hugh, and Steve, plus Harold Ruppel, wish to have it broadcast that they issue a challenge to any N. D. Polo team wherein they may be situated. They have taken everyone for a "ride" in these parts. 
And now for the real news of the day: Via the grapevine method, I am informed that John G. Igoe (the "G" stands for "great") is engaged. Bring her around, John, so we can bend her ear and give her the real low-down on your dark past. And that goes for the following, who are also "punching the time clock,"— Clete Schneider, Sam Silvestro and Larry Krai. And what's this we hear about you, Joe Gavin? Have you lost your grip on your alleged freedom? Wee Willie VanRoy is passing out cigars (not nickel ones either) in cel­ebration of the arrival of a daughtaer last Tuesday, January 23rd. 
This letter is conclusive proof that enforced versatility often results in an acute case of superficiality. 
Sincerely, "Pat" Canny. 

CINCINNATI Dear Jim: 
Back at the old desk again and mighty glad to be back. Of course, you know that I did not want Mrs. Morrissey to get the best of me so I ran out and stepped in a manhole with the result that while she was in the Hospital bringing into the world a new heir, the proud father was in there for repairs on an injured leg. Fortunately the only damage was a punctured blood vessel which is heal­ing under medical care. 
Being incapacitated, I have not been in touch with many of the mem­bers of the Club although quite a number visited me in the Hospital; in fact, I do not know just how we would have gotten along if it were not for Lee Dubois and his wife. Duby is the godfather, which, of course, will keep the boy in line for Notre Dame. 
I was happy, however, to attend the luncheon the Club gave for the Notre Dame Basketball Team during-their short stay in Cincinnati. Some twenty-five members of the Club gathered to do homage to George Keogan and his crowd. The game that night, which was attended by one of the largest crowds ever seen here at a basketball game, drew quite a few of the Alumni from various parts of Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. Xavier, as you know, is coached by Clem Crowe, a former star at Notre Dame, and as I predicted in a former letter, Clem gave the boys all they could handle. We also recognized quite a number of Cincinnati boys now enrolled at Notre Dame who-came down for the affair; we can re­call seeing Doc Van Lahr, Meller Mallett and Bob Chenel. We also, recognized Charles Bushmeyer, Class of '29, from Louisville. Harry Crum­ley, brother of Father Tom Crumley, has his young son, Thomas, now a student at Dajfton Preparatory School, as his guest for the game. Now that Keogan has started coming: this way for athletic events, we trust that he will continue to keep Cincin­nati in mind. 
Bob Hughes, our President, is spending the last few weeks of Feb­ruary basking in the sunshine of Mi­ami, Florida. 
I understand that Lee Dubois is preparing for another of his secret trips to Washington; no doubt, Duby will return this time with informa­tion as to just what the status of the country is. 
Jack Heilker finishes at law at the University of Cincinnati this Spring. 
The next meeting of the Club will be held on Tuesday, March 6, at which time the election of officers will be held, after which I shall be able to send you more news concern­ing the members of the Cincinnati-Notre Dame Club. 
With sincere good wishes, I am. 
Very truly yours, 
Hogan Morrissey, '26. 
DETROIT 

Saturday, February 3rd, the Notre Dame basketball team was in town to play the University of Detroit team. Jack Higgins, President of the Club, called a meeting of the Club for a little dinner for the team at noon that day at the Fort Shelby Hotel. Coach Keogan spoke briefly about the happy effect upon Notre Dame spirits that has been created by the record of the basketball team. He also sounded heartening words on. the prospects of the other sports un­der the Athletic Directorship of El­mer Layden. About forty of the local Notre Damers turned out and the occasion was enjoyed by the team as well. The visits of athletic teams must be an even greater stimulant to liven alumni interest in cities where more frequent occasions of this na­ture are possible. As you probably know, Notre Dame's ^-ictorj- was vdt­nessed by a capacity house of some 4,500 customers. 
DISTRICT OF COLUJIBIA 
A letter from WATTS EICHER brings the following news of some of the Notre Dame men in Washington: 
 suppose you know that Dean Vui-pillat, '91, is now one of the counsels of the Emergency Depart­ment of Public Works here? In the same department are TOM KEE­GAN, '30, and WALTER STANTON, '30. JACK WALKER, '30, of New York, has taken an apartment at the Benedict on Eye St. Jack has charge of the files of the Public Works Dept. EDMUND MURPHY, '24, is also em­ployed at the same agency. JIM COLE, '33, is a clerk in the Drainage Dept. of the R.F.C. and BOB HAIRE, '30, is in the Accounting Di\-ision of the same Corporation. CHARLIE MANNIX, '33, is active in the C.W.A. 
HAROLD HUTCHINSON, '26, who ti-ansferred to Georgetown, married a Washington girl and has returned to Vienna, Missouri. They have a young son almost a year old. 
FRANK C. WALKER, '09, and his secretaiy, BILL CRONIN, '30, are busy with activities at the National Emergency Council. AMBROS E O'CONNELL, '07, has been promoted to Executive Assistant to the Post­master Genei-al, and is the same genial friend, but busier than ever. 
. BOB NEWBOLD, '29, has returned to the District as Secretaiy to Con­gressman Gray of Indiana. BILL NEWBOLD, '32, his younger brother, is working at the N.R.A. 

LAURENC E BUNGARDEANU, '23, is an attache of the Rumanian Legation at 1607-23rd St., N. W. VINCENT X. FLAHERTY, '30, can be reached in care of the Sports Dept. of the Washington Herald. CHARLES B. FAHEY is Assistant to the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior. His residence is 106 O.xford St., Chevy Chase, Maryland. 
Dean JOHN McDILL FOX, '09, of the Catholic University Law School lives at 1612 Montague St. N.W. BART O'SHEA, '32, and PAUL RIGALI, '33, are two of his prize students. 
EDWm J. FREDELL, '01, is a 

C.P.A. in the Tower Bldg. He and his brother GEORGE, '00, live at 2101 New Hampshire Ave., N. W. 
DR. RAYMOND T. HOLDEN, Jr., '24, has his office at 3111-16th St., 
N. W. WALTER W. HOUPPEBT, . '25, is with the Home Owners Loan Corporation, Commerce Bldg. AL LODA, '25, originally from Camden, Arkansas, is married and lives at 1722 19th St., N. W., the same apart­ment building in which Mr. and Mrs. HARRY AMBROSE, '25, reside. Al is secretarj' to Senator Vandenburg of Michigan. Harry is a supervising architect in the Department of the Treasurj'. 
WILBERT and JOHN McINER-NEY, who were at Notre Dame in '23 and '24, have law offices in the Standard Oil Bldg. 
PAUL MALLON, '19, does most of his writing at his home in Alexandria, but spends a part of each morning in his offices in the Woodward Bldg. 
WARD PARROTT, '15, "The fa­ther of the Notre Dame Glee Club," is connected with the Federal De­posit Insui-ance Corp. and lives at the Gordon Hotel. Ward hails from Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
RUDOLPH RICE, '15, is working on the U. S. Tariff Commission. SAM, "BO," RICHARDS, '30, and JOE BORDA, '32, are with the A. A. A. CHARLES BORDA, '31, is working in the Interior Dept., and like his brother, is attending Georgetown Law School. BILL CLEARY, '31, and FRANK KERSJES, '31, are also at Georgetown Law, as are BERNIE DONOGHUE, '30, and JOE DOCK­MAN, '33. 
VINCE ENGELS, '23, is liiing at 

E. Melrose and Brookfield Road in Chevy Chase, Md., and is doing a good bit of writing. 
I had a veiy interesting letter from JOHNNY LAW, '30, who is now secretarj' to Warden Lawes at Sing Sing. He is very happy in this new work. JOHN McMULL.A.N, '26, writes from Chicago. The old "Duke" is busy in the activities of McMul­lan Brothers, 2340 S. Springfield Ave., Chicago. I have owed JOE BENDA, '28, a letter for t\vo months. Ben had a successful season at St. .{ohn's College last year. 
JOE R.4.FTER, J.D., '30, New York City, spent Lincoln's birthday in Washington. GEORGE J. BODEN, '32, of Brooklyn, was also a recent \-isitor in the Capitol City. 
Sincerely, Watts. 

FORT WAYNE I am happy to announce the elec­tion of Bob Eggeman to the Presi­dency of our local Fort Wayne Club at the recent meeting held at the Catholic Community Center. Know­ing Bob as you do it is not neces­sary for me to go into detail pro­claiming his good qualifications. The Fort Wayne Club is honored in hav­ing a man of his calibre at its head. 
Plans for the annual Notre Dame 
Ball, to be held Easter Monday, April 2nd, are progressing satisfactorily. 
I have turned to Bob all the "of­ficial documents"- in my possession and in relinquishing the office of President of the Fort Wayne-Notre Dame Club my best wish to him is that he will have the same coopera­tion from all the members that I have enjoyed for the past t^vo years. 
Verj' cordially, 
Frank J. Gilmartin. 

JOLIET The Notre Dame Club of Joliet held the Annual Election of Officers, Tuesday, February 6th, 1934 and the following officers were elected: Joseph Silk, '20, President; Robert Baskerville, '31, Vice-P resident , Thomas Feeley, '32, Secretarj- and Treasurer. Joe is quite a politician and has promised to continue to give the club the Roosevelt "New Deal" which was started under the retiring President, Charles Lennon. The meeting was held at the Wood­ward Inn and the retiring President Mr. Lennon, was tendered a dinner in appreciation of the fine work he has done for the Club during 1933. The Club held the -Annual Dance, February 9th at the beautiful Rialto Gardens. Two hundred couples attended and the Committee are justlj- proud of their success, as it not onlj' enriched the Club Treasuiy, but continued to show the public what the Notre Dame spirit can accomplish. The Committee on Decorations did themselves proud, as the Garden was beautifuUj' decorated in Blue and Gold. The music was furnished bj' For­mento's Ten-piece Broadcasting Or­chestra. The Notre Dame Victoiy March was the theme song of the evening. A one hour floor show was one of the features of the evening but that which the public is talking about was the prize waltz which was won bj- an ardent fan of Notre Dame, and he and his girl friend will be rewarded with tickets for one of the leading Notre Dame football games this fall. 
Mr. Edward King and Thomas Feeley acted as Co-chairmen. We congratulate them. 
FRANCIS J. DUNN, Publicity. 
KANSAS CITY 

Dr. D. M. Nigi-o, Kansas City, Mis­souri, governor of the Fifteenth Dis­trict of the Alumni Association, in a letter to the Alumni Office reported that the Kansas City-Notre Dame Club is having a luncheon every two weeks and is much pleased with a verj- representative turn-out. Doc early in January sent out a letter to the Notre Dame men in his district asking them to back up the work of the-Association by paying their an­nual dues. Of course, the g.o. Alum­ni Office just couldn't bear to.accept the money, but it can't do otherwise then back up the Governor in his most commendable acti^^ty. 
LOS ANGELES 

Late again as usual . . . can't help it . . . when it comes to catching a boat or train I am right there, but letter wTiting . . . no. It's out of my line. . . . Since you Insist, I'll see what's doing or might be done. . . . The local club with Judge Al Scott at the controls had many a fine lunch­eon meeting during the now histoiic football season . . . the largest and final meeting of the year was held at El Sideno Fadeno Casa November 25th 1933 ... it was a sellout . . . everyone came early looking for a big time hoping against hope that he might be able to do plenty of cele­bi-ating, rejoicing, and what else. . . . I am told ... I don't know ... I was . . . yes, I'wasn't there but I did hear the score while having dinner in the beautiful dining room of the royal Hawaiian Hotel on the shores of Waikiki with the officers and mem­bei-s of the Notre Dame Club of Honolulu. . . . Fi-ank Havelick, '29, is the club .. . to his knowledge he is the only alumnus on the much pub­licized isle of Oahu . . . and did we have a session . . . not me . . . he . . . yes and since he is everj-thing and so far from anyplace why not put him on the mailing list and see that he gets the ALUMNUS . . . you know evenings over there are rather dull . . . perhaps not too dull for Frank as little Erin is plenty of company ... nice girl . . . someday . . . any day it may be Mr. and Mrs. . . . but I am ahead of myself and away from local doings. . . . 
We held no Christmas dance this year as in the past because none of the boys came home for the holidays . . . however, the masterminds got together last week and decided on a jig sometime around Easter Monday to dig up enough dinero to balance our unbalanced budget . . . plans for other events were also discussed but are not ready for the press . . . every­one on pur list is more than satisfied with selection of _ Elmer Layden and extend to him many good wishes for many successful seasons . . . January fourteenth and this letter is still in the making . . . just came out of our chapel where services were held for Charles A. Wightman, donor of many paintings and a great friend of Notre Dame . . . the first section of this nonsense has given you an idea what the club is doing so I will give you a little dope on a few of the boys. .. . I know you don't want it but I feel that most of the class secretaries 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
are located in eastern parts and the western boys seldom get a blast . . . vital statistics for the past year to date show two deaths, that of Charles Wightman and Charles Myers, '02, . . . one hookup, Lester Flewelling and a pretty missie from out here someplace . . . two babies, one to the wife of Ed Ashe and the other to the wife of Joseph A. Daley, '28, . . . the rest of the gang report few changes if any . . . Sidenfaden of '29, has bettered himself and is now on the road for Union Oil . . . Charlie Kennedy puts in plenty of time with Fox Film Co. . . . Cackles Welch is going stronger than ever ^vith a well known line of silk hosiery .. . I skipped a baby in recording the vital statistics . . . John Gocke, '28, has taken his month old baby daughter and the wife up to Sacramento where he is physician and surgeon for the 
C.C.C. outfit . . . William R. Mo­lony, '23, also has a young daugter crawling around the floors. . . . Feb­ruarj' twelve and still attempting to get this in the mails . . . we were more than surprised to see the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. out here for a few hours sunshine .. . he came in Thui-sday a. m. and checked out Sunday evening without giving us much time to get the boys together. . . . Judge Scott and Terry Cosgrovo put on an informal dinner for him at the Jonathan Club Friday, having about eighteen of the boys present . . . Saturday Father O'Hara and I journeyed to Ferndale Rancho for lunch and then on on Montecito where we called on Frank Hagen­barth, Sr., '89, member of Notre Dame's fii-st football team .. . we found him looking very good and feeling better after a long siege of sickness. . . . Frank, Jr., is now in San Francisco in the insurance racket having severed his connection with the Harris Co. in Chicago . . . word from the north says that Chet Rice, '28, is now helping the state of Cali­fornia build the bridge across the Golden Gate. . . . Elmer Wynne is also a new comer in the bay region . . . well, Jim as I wind up this let­ter I feel that it is the -wind up for me . . . Universal Notre Dame Night is not vei-y far away and when that night is over I trust that you will have a secretai-y wi-iting to you that can at least get the dope to you on time and one that will give you plenty of information regarding the club, our boys, etc. . . . 
Ed. Cunningham. 

NEW JERSEY Our scribe, having been laid low ^vith malaria for the past few months, relegates his powers for the present to the club physician: Our meetings continue regularly the first Monday of each month at the Newark Athletic Club. They are well attended, strange as it may seem, by 
the older men but the graduates of the past few years are poorly rep­resented. When the New Jersey Club was organized the great propor­tion of the men lived in Newark and its suburbs. Now, however, the en­tire state gives blood to the Univer­sity and our problem is to form an organization that will have under its vdng North, South and West Jersey and the Shore district. Jim Silver and Sol Bontempo have been author­ized to effect this organization and the club eagerly looks forward to a stauncher unit. 
Bob Phelan, '22, our transplant from Iowa, this year is our capable leader. He already has several suc­cessful activities "in the bag." A "hard-times dance" at the Orange Mountain Club last September heads the list of triumphs under the Phelan regime. Then there was the annual retreat at Mt. St. Katherine's, Mor­ristown, N. J. — more spiritually pleasing than quantitatively satisfac­tory. Dan O'Neill and the indefati­gable Bontempo are even now de­voting energy to the support of Joe Byrne who instituted the retreat movement in this club and so ably promoted the retreats for the past eight years. . . . The Christmas for­mal at the Newark Athletic Club was successful in spite of the fact that the right to hold it was granted to us at a late date and Frank McDer­mott had only a few days in which to make adequate preparations. . . . Weekly luncheons are being held at Bosco's — across from the Newark City Hall. A handful are usually present but the president is shopping around for a more desirable chop house and when this is obtained we expect a larger attendance at our weekly grub and gab-fests. . . . Arch Duncan is arranging the details for a novel Universal Notre Dame Night. If Art LeaMond's spleen goes down in the meantime, we shall have a more elaborate report of Universal Night in the April issue. . . . 
Jerry Hayes. 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT. 
Monday, April 16. 

Make Your Plans Now 

182 March, 19SU
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
PHILADELPHIA Dear Jim: Whew! If all meetings are like that of February, the Secretary is going to have to appoint some assist­ants or demand a salary. Almost a new day was at hand before the boys decided they'd argued enough for one meeting. Talk about bull ses­sions ! They never got so rabid as this. Dalsey's "chauffeur(ette)" al­most froze, but proved loyalty to Notre Dame by not taking him away 'till nearly eleven. 
However hard'the battle, the result may have been worth it. First oif, we look forward to your visit, March 18-20 as an opportunity to show our loyalty to Our Lady, and to extend you a more general greeting than last year (your appreciation of the diffi­culties surrounding which we are grateful for). Public Relations com­mittee chairman ED BAILEY, '22, will outdo his capable self. The Penn A. C. will be your battleground —where, from henceforth, our meet­ings are to be held regularly on ev­ery second Tuesday of the month, unless special occasions, such as the recent Temple game (which, in ac­cordance with R.A.Y McNALLY'S idea, recorded last month, left our treasury much better off), necessi­tate. 
After the war was over, there ex­isted a Board of Governors, and var­ious committees needed in the con­duct of such a club as we hope to make ours. President HARRY FRAN­CIS, '31, has acquitted himself nobly in handing out the pabulum. We are just waking up to the fact that or­ganization is needed in a club to keep it alive. It's better to discover that, than that one has a set-up that needs new pep. Starting it is its own punch. And talking about punches (non­liquid), Athletic committee Chairman GUS DESCH, '23, while he's not go­ing to show us how he hurdled in world record time (those days are gone forever) may get us exchanging viewpoints on the end of a glove (boxing or handball), or a tennis racquet, as a result of the Ways and Means (of engendering and main­taining interest) committee's sugges­tion that some of us are young enough to find fellowship in athletics here as at school. 
Universal Notre Dame Night and Rock's Anniversary Mass came in for their share of suggestion, friendly (but earnest) criticism, and action. Details later, but we're reiterating your cry: Keep the night open. Plans for the latter will be discussed when you're present to offer some sugges­tions (to be amicably hashed over!). 
-^nd last, but hardly least, we leave a meeting, to turn to our "Treasury's saviour — the Temple game. When better games are played Notre Dame will play them. Here's to Temple: they put up the tickets for our draw, and a swell fight. Moose Krause may have'gotten a new one, the instant he hit the floor, leading his team on: a score of young Irish (with their Polish, Jewish, Italian, et al neigh­bors) swamped him for autographs, until he had to refuse. The kid brother is the biggest shot in the local grades, what with that signature! We welcomed the team's visit, and while the Club played no part in arrange­ments, it appreciates the visit, and hopes there may come a day when it will be permitted to share the work as well as the glorj'. 
Tom Magee. 
TWIN CITIES 
The Twin Cities-Notre Dame Club lost one of its most popular and ac­tive members when Joe Boland left for Notre Dame. Joe certainly put himself over in a big way here. Through his coaching ability and magnetic personality he has consis­tently built up a large following here that will watch his progress at Notre Dame with a keen interest. His suc­cess as a sports annouuncer on the radio and as a popular after dinner speaker even further endeared him to the people of the Northwest. 
At a stag party held in Joe's hon­or, prior to his leaving, the members of the Twin Cities-Notre Dame Club expressed their personal feelings to­wards Joe and wished him continued success in his newest and greatest opportunity. 
As for other activities of the Club I might mention that our Christmas Ball was a financial, as well as a so­cial success. The Dance committee, consisting of President Eugene O'Brien, Bob Fogerty, Bob Sullivan, and Rod Sullivan has received unani­mous praise for putting over such a successful party. 
At Joe Boland's stag, of which Jerry Conway, '31, was chairman, a number of new faces were mixed in with the more familiar ones. Father Bemie Coughlin who is teaching at St. Thomas College in St. Paul and his brother Danny of Waseca, Min­nesota who stands very high in the editorial circles of the State were there in their usual good spirits. President Gene O'Brien, witli the help of Joe Hallman had quite a time keeping John Petrich subdued during the evening. Paul McDermott and his brother George, Frank Lar­son, Ed Fahey, Dr. John M. CuUigan and Mike Moriarty, all members from St. Paul, helped Chairman Conway put the stag over. The Club wel­comed Tom McMahon, who has re­cently moved to Minneapolis with his family from Cleveland. Tom is head of the Marine department of the In­surance Company of North America here in Minneapolis. 
Jack Doyle is manager of the Standard Clothing Store on the Uni­versity of Minnesota Campus. That is probably why the boys at the "U" are so well dressed. Jack, Mrs. Doyle, Don Macintosh, '34, and I drove to New Richmond, Wisconsin for Pro­fessor Phillips funeral. While there we had a nice visit and wonderful dinner at Jack Keefe's home. 
In the past few weeks I have talked to Bill Cole who is selling Chevrolets. Frank Mayer is a Sales Engineer for Northern States Power in St. Paul. Joe O'Hara of Glencoe, Minnesota, who officiates at Big Ten games in the fall, sticks close to his successful law practice during the other seasons of the year. 
Frank Butorac of Ironton, Minne­sota was in town a few weeks ago. He was on Gov. Olson's trail by way of S. Paul Skahn who is our State Securities Commissioner. Dr. Wal­lace Keieghbaum apparently "built his house of brick" for he is always smiling and happy. We are all hap­py to have Louis Regan back as an active member again as his ready wit is always appreciated. Joe Schroeder is deep in the oil business and always working hard; however, Joe does find a little time for play and week-ends to Duluth (?) Denny Daley is prac­ticing law in St. Paul. Walter Hall is working his way up in the Red Owl chain stores- and also working into a poker player of some note. Lee Moes is in the Real Estate business with its usual line of insurance. Prank Schlingerman hasn't missed a meet­ing for some time. 
Besides our president. Gene O'Brien, Northern States Power Company of Minneapolis has con­nected with a few other potential power magnates in the persons of Percy Wilcox, Vic Theissen, Tom , Lee, and John Petrich. Louis Chute, '93, is one of our most loyal mem­bers. He takes an active part in all our meetings and never missed a party. Maurice Griffin is back with us again and gave us all the latest news from the campus. 
Rod Sullivan was Secretary and Treasurer of the Club until a few weeks ago when he received a promo­tion from the Northern States Pow­er Company and was moved to Grand Forks, North Dakota. I have taken up these duties in Rods' ab­sence. He certainly left the club in fine financial condition and we are going to try hard to keep it that way. 
March 12th is the next important date for the Club for that is the date of the Notre Dame-Minnesota game in Minneapolis. President O'Brien will announce final plans for that night in a few days. It will be either a noon luncheon or a reception after the game. We are looking for­ward to an exciting game and we feel sure that it will be a big day for the team and the club too. 

I will write again, Jim, after the 

game as we expect to have a big 
turn-out at the game and there 
should be more news. 
John D. Yelland, '30. 

UTAH I wish to advise you that Mr. Sam­uel Powell, one of our outstanding Notre Dame alumni here, was last Saturday elected President of the Utah State Bar Association, a most distinguished honor among the mem­bers of that profession, and naturally we are all rejoicing because Mr. Powell is a member of our board of governors and is at the same time an attorney of prominence in this inter-mountain country. 
I also wish to advise you that John 

W. Thompson, Jr., of the Class of '32, is living in this city and is en­gaged in the insurance business and 
•was recently initiated in the Bishop Kearney Class of Knights of Colum­bus. 
Mr. C. J. Harbeke, our secretarj', last summer was runner-up in the Intermountain Open Golf Tourna­ment held in this city, and narrowly missed winning the championship. Cy is a former Notre Dame baseball star and has been quite a figure in inter­mountain athletics, and we look for big things from Cy in years to come. 
I might add that the writer was elected Grand Knight of Salt Lake Council, No. 602, Knights of Colum­bus, in this city and also a director of the Intermountain A. A. U., which probably explains why I have been kept so busy in the recent months, together wtih other pressing business matters. 
I just returned from California where I saw the New Year's game at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, and I must say that the Columbia boys cer­tainly took Southern California by storm, not only by their splendid football playing but also by their splendid sportsmanship. 
Otto Enking, one of the board of governors, also was in Los Angeles at the same time I was, visiting his son, Clem Enking of the Class of '28, who is now practicing law in Los An­geles. Clem was married last fall to a Miss Clesta Paul, and needless to say they are very happy and are do­ing splendidly. 
Our club is not dead by any means, although due to the fact that most of our mines are shut down, we have probably been feeling the depres­sion, more than other communities but things look better as a whole. 
We-were favored during the holi­day season with a visit from Andrew 
J. Boyle, who is from Notre Dame, and tried to the best of our meager ability to make his visit here a happy one. 
We congratulate our Alma Mater 

on the acquisition of Layden, and in wish him every happiness and success the same breath we commend highly in his new location. the excellent work done by Hunk and Ray Brady, '24. 


TAKE A REST AT NOTRE DAME 
To the Alumni: students are welcome to occupy them whenever they wish. Byron says he 
The President of the Board of Lay is convinced that the risingf bells will Trustees, Byron V. Kanaley, has of­constitute no problem for the tired fered the very reasonable suggestion business man who comes for a rest— 

that a few rooms be set aside in the 
that he will hear no bells before 
new inBrmary building for the use of 
noon. Be that as it may, any old 
Alumni who may wish to come back student who wishes to assume the to the University for a bit of rest risk of an old-fashioned Notre Dame and rejuvenation. The suggestion is reveille should feel that he is wel­an excellent one, and has received come to be the guest of the Univer­favorable consideration. sity whenever he can come to us. 
But why wait for the new build­John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., 

ing? There are a few vacant rooms on the campus at present, and old Vice President. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of 55.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1023, at tbe post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under tiie Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, 6o:c 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, Assistant Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
BYRON V. KAN.ALEY, '04 ------- Honorary President 
M. HARRY MILLER, 'lO ----------- President FRANK C. WALKER, '09 ------- First Vice-President ARTHUR R. C.ARMODY, '15 ------ Second Vice-President JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 r Director FRED L. STEERS, 'H------------- Director FRANCIS A. WERNER, '33 (one year) Director CLARENCE MANION, '22 . -(ex officio) Director 
184 March, 1934
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 




=THE ALUMNI: 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Announcements have been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Marv Ruth Fairman, Oak Park, niinois, and NEIL C. HUR­LEY, Jr., '32, River Forest, Illinois. 
Miss Gertrude Rigney, River For­est, niinois, and EDWARD E. RHAT­IGAN, '32, Brookline, Massachusetts. 
Miss Evelyn Way, River Foi-est, Illinois, and WILLIAM J. FELVEY, ex. '31, Chicago, Illinois. 
Miss Jean Bradv, Winfield, Kansas, and EDWARD J. ENGLAND, '30, Redlands, California. 
Miss Elizabeth Lind, Nonvalk, Ohio, and CHARLES FISS, '33, Osh­kosh, Wisconsin. 
Miss Lucy Beasley, East Orange, New Jersey, and TIGHE WOODS, '33, Chicago, Illinois. 
Miss Louise Burke, Chicago, Illi­nois, and RICHARD OELERICH, '32, Wilmette, Illinois. 
Miss Honor Chudleigh, East Or­ange, New Jersey, and FRANCIS DENNY, '32, Chicago, niinois. 
Miss Ann Katholing, Chicago, nii­nois, and FRANCIS DRISCOLL, '30, Boston, Massachusetts. 
Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Pearson of Glendale, Arizona, announce the en­gagement of their daughter, Jane, to EDWARD W. MEHREN, '32. The wedding will take place on April 2, Easter Monday. 

MARRIAGES 

The marriage of Miss Graziella Chevigny, Hamomnd, Indiana, and TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16, took place on February 7th, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Marguerite Daele, Notre Dame, Indiana, and JOSEPH PET­RITZ, '32, were married in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, Indiana, on February 10th. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Cath­erine Walter, South Bend, Indiana, and JEROME PAHLMAN, ex. '33, took place in Dillon Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana, on February 10th. 
Word has been received of the marriage of Miss Gertrude Winters, Oak Park, niinois, and JOSEPH P. McKEOWN, '24, on February 10th, in St. Catherine of Sienna Church, Oak Park, niinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Vogg, South Bend, Indiana, recently announced the marriage of their daughter, Vir­ginia Marie, to ARTHUR J. KLISE, '26, which took place in Wellsboro, Pennsylvania, December 21st. 
Bob Fogerty, '28, sends us word of the marriage of Miss Leone E. Borer, St. Paul, Minnesota, and JOHN L. WORDEN, Jr., '28, which took place on December 28th in St. Mark's Church, St. Paul. Jack is teaching at St. Bonaventure's Col­lege, St. Bonaventure, New York. 
Miss Agnes K. Schwind, Evan­ston, niinois, and CHARLES W. SCHLIECKERT, Jr., '29, were mar­ried on Februaiy 10th in Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The marriage of Miss Audrey Boy­ers, South Bend, Indiana, and JAY WALZ, '29, took place on March 6th in South Bend, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Quinn an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Marj- Louise, to ALFRED C. STEPAN, Jr., '31, on February 10th in St. Catherine of Sienna Church, Oak Park, Illinois. Among the ushers at the wedding were ED STEPHAN, '33, and JERRY CROWLEY, '31. 
Mrs. Frank Wells Mateer an­nounces the man-iage of her daugh­ter, Evelyn Gerardin, to OLIVER P. POWERS, '32, on Februaiy 2nd. 
A note from Rochester, New York, tells us of the marriage of Miss Mary aicCarthy, Rochester, and WALTER MULLEN, '32, on Februaiy 12th. 

BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. RODERICK SUL­LIVAN, '24, Grand Forks, North Dakota, announce the arrival of James KeWn, on March 1st. 
"Another member of San Pi-an­cisco's coming generation of Notre Dame men has made his appearance; this one'at the home of Mr. and Mrs. MARK G. KREUTZER, '24. The lad was bom January 3rd and has been duly enrolled as Mark Lang Kreutzer." 
Mr. and Mrs. LEONARD M. HESS, '25, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Ruth Marie, on March 1st, San Antonio, Texas. 
A note from JOHN E. SULLIVAN, '27, Chicago, sends the belated an­nouncement of the arrival of a daughter, Marguerite Maureen, last September 20th. 
FRANCIS JONES, '29, the proud godfather, tells us of the arrival of a son, Burton, Jr., to Mr. and Mrs. BURTON TOEPP, '28, on Januarv 28th, Washington, D. C. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER M. LANG­FORD, '30, announce the arrival, on January 21st, of Walter M., Jr., South Bend, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS WEBB SEXTON, '33, Chicago, announce the arrival of a daughter, Geraldine, just a few days before Christmas. 

DEATHS 

Mr. PAT MALLOY, '07, died sud­denly in Eldorado, Arkansas on Jan­uary 31. Mr. Malloy, whose home was in Tulsa, Oklahoma, was presi­dent of Malloy & Company, having been a well known figure in the oil and petroleum industry for nearly 20 years. Also well known as a lawyer, he served as Assistant Attorney Gen­ei-al during the early part of the present administration. Mr. Malloy was national president of the Alumni Association in 1919-1920. His wid­ow and three sons survive. 
Mr. SAMUEL S. PERLEY, a stu­dent from 1878-1880, died at his home in South Bend, Indiana, on February 15th. Mr. Periey, a well known resident of South Bend, was a brother of A. P. PERLEY, who was also a student at Notre Dame in 1878. 
Word has been received of the death of CYRIL J. CURRAN, '12, on February 19th, in New York City. 
JOHN F. McMAHON, '05-'06, died on January 28th at St. Joseph's Hos­pital in Mitchell, South Dakota. Mr. McMahon, whose home was in Huron, South Dakota, had been connected with the Standard Oil Company for several years. 
Dr. FREDERICK C. DANA, '11, died suddenly of a heart attack on January 16th, at his home in Pond du Lac, Wisconsin. 
Word has been received of the death of DONALD C. TROMBLEY, '26, on February 27th in Mount Clemens, Michigan. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: WALTE R LANG­
March, 1934 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 185 
FORD, '30, upon the death of his mother; WILLIAM FUREY, '23, up­on the death of his father; CAR­ROLL PINKLEY, '28, upon the death of his grandmother; Judge JOHN W. EGGEMAN, '00, upon the death of his father, and ROBERT EGGEMAN, '30, upon the death of his grandfather; MARCH MONT SCHWARTZ, '32, upon the death of his grandmother; Rev. CHRISTO­PHER BROOKS, C.S.C, '12, upon the death of his mother; DONALD, ex. '30, and FRANCIS BOYCE, ex. 
'29, upon the death of their father; Rev. K. M. HEALY, C.S.C, '15, upon the death of his gi'andmother. 

PERSONALS 
1897 

One of the most welcome of recent visitors at the University was PAUL 
J. RAGAN, A.B., '97, LL.B., '00, of Maumee, Ohio, near Toledo. Paul spent some happy hours on February 3 \vith his old Notre Dame friends including Fathers Schumacher, Walsh, and Steiner. 
A pleasing result of Paul's visit ap­peared in an editorial printed in the February 9 issue of the Scholastic. The editorial was ^vl"itten by James 
S. Kearns, editor-in-chief of this year's Scholastic. 
The editorial, entitled "Continuity" follows: 
"An effective object lesson was given The Scholastic last weekend in a feature of Notre Dame life that is ail too frequently overlooked. A middle aged man walked into the Sorin headquarters of the publication Saturday noon with an apologetic curiosity to see 'the room where I used to live.' " 
"It developed in the course of the conversation that the gentleman, Mr. Paul J. Ragan, had been in charge of The Scholastic in 1897-98. He had taught the father of last year's edi­tor when the former was captain of the Notre Dame baseball team at the turn of the century. He had taught two men who were later to become presidents of the University. He had been manager of the baseball team of 1899. He was an early partici­pant in many branches of student ac­tivity that have continued, altered possibly, but still functioning, to the present time. 
"He spoke considerably of the changes in Notre Dame since the years of his student career here. Yet through all the changes, many things have remained intact. Undoubtedly minor among those institutions, if measured on a comparative scale, but definitely important in their own sphere, are several branches of stu­dent activity. Consideration of that fact of continuous life should add 
something to current appraisals of 
the several branches of activitj-. 
"Student organizations are not personal toys; they are not fields for personal gain, nor for the exploita­tion of temporary advantages. They are established organizations that have been handed down from a long line of managers and editors and presidents and chairmen. Each new set of oflice holders would do well to consider that: they are a part of something that has existed because of the efforts of dozens of predecessors, and that will, if properly handled, probably continue to exist for at least that many more generations. 
"Though it is a little damaging to personal pride and to the sense of be­ing necessary, such a realization should make for a better estimate of the real nature of the ofRce holders' positions, and for a healthier condi­tion of the various oi-ganized activ­ities." 
CHARLES M. NIEZER, of Fort Wayne, has, according to a recent newspaper story, been elected Presi­dent of the Tokheim Oil Tank and Pump Company of that city. For many years he has been outstanding in the industrial and financial life of Fort WajTie. 
Several letters from Father JOHN 
A. MACNAMARA add to the tales of the blizzard in the East. Even "down in Marj'land" there were only three days during Februaiy that the thermometer I'egistered about zero. Father j-eports for Class notes: "I wrote lettei-s to the fifteen membei-s of the Class whose addresses I had. Up to date I have had seven re­sponses which is unusually good and may spur some of those who have not answered to try out their fountain pens or typewriters. JIM BARRY, CHARLIE BRYAN, HUNTER BEN­NETT, CHARLIE NIEZER, ELMER MURPHY, SHERMAN STEELE and JOE SULLIVAN sent back fine letters in response, and in some cases a i"eg­ular correspondence was started. As soon as I can check up, I intend to send to each of the Class the address­es of the other members, as well as news of intei-est concei-ning each member." 
1909 

PAUL MARTIN has just com­pleted a biography of George Cardi­nal Mundelein of Chicago which is now running serially in the Neiv World, official organ of the archdio­cese of Chicago. Paul was exceeding­ly successful last summer in handling part of the publicity for the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago. 
1912 

A card from WALTER DUNCAN -from New Orleans, Louisiana, reports that he is "getting acquainted with some of the 'gentlemen' of the South." 
1914 

FRANK H. HAYES reports that he is at present in Anaheim, California, absorbing the well-known California sunshine. 1916 
1916 

RAY HUMPHREYS, '16, chief in­vestigator, district attorney's office. West Side Court, Denver, Colorado, sends along this exceedingly interest­ing letter: (Little did the editors of the ALUMNUS know what history they were revealing when they dug out that picture of the boat house in the Ave Maria shop.) 
"As an ex-editor to an editor . . . why not a credit line under that snap­py photograph "Boat House . . . Rifle Range" on page 159 of the February, 1934, Notre Dame ALUMNUS.!" I am amazed. I presume that Timothy Patrick Galvin is also astounded. I am sure that Grove Miller should be astounded. After 18 years to see THAT picture again— 
"Yes, 18 years ago, in a bright spring on the N. D. campus when the aforementioned T. P. Galvin was edi­tor of the 1916 DOME and the above Miller was assistant art editor and I happened to be art editor, the pic­ture reproduced in last month's ALUMfrtjS was snapped—by Miller. I am the warm party appearing in the immediate foreground, in my shirt sleeves, apparently enthralled by the boat house— 
"But only apparently, I hasten to advise. The boat house picture was taken as Exhibit A in the IVORY DOME section of the '16 DOME. As I recollect a picture of the observa­tory was also included. And maybe one or two other subjects. In each picture, back to the camera, was the entranced student, frozen in rapture (?) and awe (??). I also recall that the sarcastic slant to our endeavors resulted in some faculty frowning. At any rate I believe the 1917 DOME drew a censor. 
"So . . . when I picked up the Feb­ruary ALUMNUS and saw THAT picture .. . I got quite a shock. We must have builded better than we knew in 1916. We must have been historical as well as hysterical in our humor. If we thought the boat house a funny college antique in 1916 what must—but there, I don't want to get the rifle association sore! 
"In closing, however, I will risk saying that I still think the 1916 Dome was N. D,*s best. Why shouldn't I? I'll wager Galvin and Miller and Father Vince Mooney, who was the hustling as well as the per­spiring business manager of that pub­lication, will back me up. Also . . . maybe . . . Father Tom Burke, who 
was the guardian angel of all the 1916 Dome staff. It isn't every col­lege year book that has a modem publication filching "art" from its musty pages! Yeah—18 years— think of it!" 
1918 
The Chicago Tribune recently car­ried the information that fifty busi­ness and professional men of South Chicago had organized the South Chi­cago Lions Club and elected as their first president FRANK X. EYDZEW­SKI, '18, star center in the early days of the Rockne era. 
1922 
JOHN M. EICE recently wrote the Alumni Office that his new address is 390 E. 165th St., Cleveland. He said that he is completely recovered from an illness and hopes to regain soon his old stride. He sent regards to all his old pals. 
The many friends of HAROLD T. OSEAU will be glad to know that his address is Main Street, Stratford, Conn., where he is practicing medi­cine. Harold finished at Jefferson Medical in 1926 and was married to Miss Helen Manion of Danbury, Conn., in 1930. The Doctor and Mrs. Oseau are the parents of a young son, Harold, Jr., bom July 10, 1931. 
WILLIAM A. A. CASTEI-LINI is now a member of the firm of D. Hol­loway Brutton & Associates, Public Relations Counselors, Cincinnati, Ohio. Bill was also recently ap­pointed Professor of Journalism at Xavier University, School of Com­merce and Finance, and will lecture on Journalism during the summer session. 
JAMES C. SHAW has recently or­ganized an investment business with associates under the name of Shaw, McDermott and Sparks, Inc., 307 Equitable Bldg., Des Moines, Iowa. Jim is president of the Notre Dame Club of Des Moines. 
1923 
I know that the Class of '23 is-ill be delighted to receive a denial of Bill Haskins' death. He sent it in himself and according to the Alum­ni office, it was a very emphatic de­nial. 
It seems that, as in the case of Mark Twain, "the reports of his death were grossly exaggerated." Bill is alive and well and his address is 34-10 84th Street, Jackson Heights, Long Island, N. Y. (Do not send his posies when it's shoesies that he needs.) 
I had a letter recently from Maur­ice Dacy, who is in Chicago. He told me that he sees Joe Troman from time to time in Chicago. 
I attended the "Home-Town" Tes-­
timonial Dinner for Elmer Layden 
in Davenport, Thursday, March first, 
and was very pleased to see Joe there 
for a few minutes. Paul Castner. 
Joe Casasanta, head of the Depart­ment of Music and director of the Band and Glee Club, directed the an­nual Orchestra Festival held by the Berrien County, Michigan public schools in Niles, Michigan on Feb­ruary 7. 
Upon invitation of the Superin­tendents' Association, Joe served as guest conductor of the combined symphony orchestras of all the pub­lic schools in Berrien County. About 300 schools were represented. 
Among the men prominent in mu­sic who have been selected as guest conductors in the last few years are Glenn Bainum, director of the North­western University Band; Joseph Maddy, leader of the University of Michigan Band; Harold Bachman, noted Chicago musician. 
1925 
DON MILLER has signed a one-year contract to coach football at Xavier High School, Louisville, Ken­tucky. Don, who is a practicing at­torney in Cleveland, has agreed to devote ten days in the Spring and three months in the Fall to his new duties. Thus all the Four Horsemen are once again back in the football fold, Layden at Notre Dame, Crowley at Fordham, Stuhldreher at Villa Nova, and jliller at Xavier, Louis­ville. 
A welcome letter from GEORGE WARD, Chicago, Illinois. ".. . If anybody wants to know, I am con­nected with the Prudential Insurance Company and have been the past 8% years. My office is at 6979 N. Clark St., which is an obvious reason why I don't see many of the members of the Chicago Oub." 
1926 
This potpourri is to fulfill partially one of my Lenten promises. All my notes are mildewed but having re­initiated '26 news I do hope that I shall have many reports from men in the hinterlands. Dooley, of course, had to put me to shame! 
I have been practicing medicine in East Orange for the past eight months. There is absolutely no money in it but I do a lot of work and I enjoy that enormously. I frequently come to the determination to return to Finland or sail to Tahiti when somebody pays a bill and all is glor­ious .. . I miss JIMMY STACK very much. Just as he had become ensconced in this neighborhood he married a lovely girl and returned to Chicago. Jim, incidentally, is doing surgery with offices at 30 N. Michi­gan, his spare moments being devoted 
to the education of young medicos at Northwestern. An infection, which recently sent him to a hospital, has fortunately healed . . . TOM FAR­RELL, you know, no longer lives at this address. He has established a bachelors' club a square distant and among those living there with the bishop are DAN O'NEILL and JACK SAUNDERS, '31. Tom is exceeding­ly busy these days vrith his coal and oil and Dan lights churches and bar­rooms for the Public Service Com­pany. Jack Saunders is with the Gordon Supply Company which cleans everything but the baby and kitchen sink. Jack does something of import in the diaper department. All of these boys are active in the Mercier Club, a splendid organization of young Catholic men and women in Essex County of which JACK ADAMS is president. In his better hours Jack continues to toil for the Manhattan Cold Storage. Also lu­minaries in the Mercier Club are LARRY KEEFE, ED HARGAN, the WINGERTERS and the PURCELLS. Big Wink still directs the destinies of the G.M.A.C. in New York while Jack is down "on the street," Larry Keefe is Sales Manager of the Nest Rite Division of the Lilly-Tulip Cup Company—^how do you like it? We occasionally inveigle him to leave the Village and come out to these Jersey Hills but more freqeuntly we must catch him on the fly at lunch or din­ner in New York .. . Ed Hargan has the past six months been working for the General Motors Acceptance. He is so busy redeeming forfeit that we seldom see him .. . ED DUGGAN and JIM SILVER recently combined law offices and are in the Federal Trust Building in Newark. There is little question about their being among the leading barristers in town. 
.. . ED FALLON, after a few years of real physical oppression, is again booming in the law book game in New York .. . ED BURKE became anathema to this group last month when he fell from the fold of single blessedness. His obituary no doubt will be noted elsewhere in this issue. Eddie butters his bread through the Plainfield Lumber and Supply Com­pany . . . TOM SHERIDAN still com­mutes between Brooklyn and Bergen­fidd in the meantime doing his chores for the N. Y. Telephone Co. .. . TOM RYAN I saw when he came up from Trenton a few months ago. Success has favored him in the prac­tice of law in our capital city. . . . JAKE PUECELL will probably call upon yon from time to time. He is now travelling auditor for the Inger­. soli-Rand Company and most of his time is spent away from Fanwood. You know, of course, that Jake is the father of two lovely children. Dick "Bozo" Pnrcell sells insurance in Jer­sey City while "Shive" is in law in New York City. .. . I am glad to re­

March, 193!, 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
port that JIM WALDRON has re­turned to us from the Adirondacks. He is in excellent health and if the good administrations of a splendid Mrs. mean anything, he will remain so. . . . There was a delightful note from NORB KAVANAXJGH a few weeks ago. Norb is practicing law with his Dad in Portland. In the same building, the Yeon, is estab­lished TOM McMAHON, '27. ED MURPHY, '28, Norb tells me, is running a sawmill down at Grande Ronde, Oregon. Norb also gives a good report on my old love—Colum­bia. .. . A new addition to our Jer­sey group is (Lieutenant) HUGHIE McCAFFERY, '28, who was named to take the first night mail for the army from Newark over "Hell's Stretch" to Pittsburgh. Very glibly does Hughie tell us of his little es­capades here and there in his daily toil. He spoke of MURT CULLI­NAN who attended fljang school with him at Kelly Field. Murt, I under­stand, became an accomplished flyer, his only woe being ground school under a hot Texas sun. 
This is already running into too much space, Jim, and although there are many more I should like to tell you abont-^riM QUINN, BOB PHE­LAN, ARCH DUNCAN, BILL CAR­TER— I'll save their notations for later. Before closing, however, lest you may have missed the good news, I do wish to mention that JOE BYRNE has been nominated by Gov­ernor Moore for Commissioner of the Port of New York Authority. This, of course, is a great honor to Joe and Notre Dame and all of ns in this bailiwick are rightfully proud of him. 
Where are JB I McQUAIN, JOE BROUSSARD, TONY CAVALLE, TONY ROXAS, ROY HABERT, healers KANE and MURRAY, URB SIMON, PUT NEWMAN, ED MAN­DEVILLE? My intentions are most firm, Jim, to have a column in each issue if these and others give a hand. 
Jerry Hayes. 

The following, clipped from a Cin­cinnati paper, demands that both con­gratulations and condolences be ex­tended to the jovial Hogan: 
DAD GOES TO HOSPITAL: 
NOT AS ESCORT, THOUGH 

Cincinnati has at least one hus­band who didn't do the traditional corridor pacing when "—^and father" was added to his title, it was learned yesterday. 
The husband and father is William 

D. "Hogan" Morrissey, 2164 Crane Avenue, Director of Boys Work for the Catholic Big Brothers League. 
Thursday night Mrs. Morrissey told her husband that the great event they had been expecting was about to take place. He bustled out to get things ready for a trip to the hospital. 
In his haste, he stepped on a man­hole cover. It tilted, and he took a nasty fall. 

So when Morrissey went to Good Samaritan Hospital with his wife it was as another patient. And while physicians were dressing his injuries, a third member of the family, an eight-pound baby boy, arrived in an­other room. 
It is probable the Morrissey family will leave as they came—^together— in another week, attendants said. 
A note from Hogan conveyed the welcome word that he was convales­cing very favorably after his acci­dent and was about ready to start again on the Cincinnati-Notre Dame activities in which he takes so active and resultful a part. 
1927 

This letter probably comes as a distinct shock, after my many months of deep silence as regard any news of the class of '27. 
To begin with, I was certainly hap­py to meet up \vith TOM McKIER-NAN a few months ago in Fort Wayne. He looked quite affluent for a young man just recently out of school, and is doing very nicely in one of the few banks that did not go defunct. He promised to send me news of the '27 lads from time to time, but I haven't heard anything from, him as yet. 
I happened to be in Madison, Wis­consin last week and ran into "RED" SMITH of football and baseball fame. He is in business for himself there, and doing quite well. I under­stand from another source that he is also an official in the WTestling game (not a participant). 
Also had a brief visit with FRANK DOYLE in Madison, who would have finished in '27 were it not for illness in his sophomore year. He is in busi­ness with his father and has done very well in spite of the depression. Although he did not graduate with us, nevertheless many of the boys, particularly in the College of Com­merce, -were well acquainted with him. He told me that JOHNNY SLOCUM is clerk of the Assembly in the State Capitol, and is getting right on up there in politics. Tried to see Johnny but he was too busy running the Assembly to even get near him. 
I just today received a note from DAN McCLUSKEY. He seemed just­ly proud of the fact that he was pre­sented with a fine boy, January 11, by Mrs. McCluskey. Judging by what I've heard about Dan, he also is quite a political figure around Janesville. 
Guess that's all the news for the present. Ed. DeClerq. LUTHER M. "MIKE" SWYGERT, Hammond, Indiana, has re.«igned his 
position'as deputy prosecutor of Lake County, Indiana, to accept one as as­sistant United States district attorney for the district of which Hammond, South Bend, Fort Wayne, and ad­jacent territory are a part. The oath of office was recently administered to him in South Bend by Federal Judge Thomas W. Slick. Mike is in South Bend for a time but he will probably be assigned later to Ham­mond to handle federal legalities in that portion of the district. 
1928 

Word comes that A. Gordon Ben­nett who was at Notre Dame in 1924­25 and 1925-26 and has more re­cently been associated with the Buf­falo Courier Express, has entered the University of Buffalo. Other details are lacking. 
1929 

JOSEPH J. HEMPHLING, who received his commerce degree in 1926 and his law degree in 1929, and ED­WARD B. SMITH, law graduate in 1930, have formed in South Bend the legal firm of Hemphling and Smith, with offices in the Odd Fellows Build-

Read about this NEW kind of service to Europe 
LOW COST TRIP TO EDKOPEI They Mud j( 
cotddn't be done ., . with two-bed rooms; hot and cold 
runninrwater in every cabimsbonoantand delicious 
food: the unrestricted xae of the ship with its spa­
cioos decks, veiandacafe; and recreation rooms. But 
It can be done. We proved it last year to stndcnta, 
teachers,Bcientistau professional people and family 
parties. They were so delighted (and surprised) at 
the comforts and steadiness of our ships and the 
con^nial friends they met aboard that they wrote 
hundreds of nnsoUcited letters to ns. Those letters 
are a remarkable verdict on this new kind of »ervice 
to Europe (New York— Havre — Antwerp). Would 
you like to read some of these letters; Uay we tell 
you about it? 
.4ND your car can go along in the ship^M garage at the bneettrate on the Atlantic 
That's the most economical way to explore Europe, especially for a party of four or five persons. You wfll see more and pay less if you take youp own cap. May we tell yon about tomiM u d motonnsabttadz 
Askvouraeexl.orwriietova 

ARNOLD BERNSTEIM UH ^ Dept 73 17 Battery Place; New York; N. T. YES! Tell meabout the new land of service toEurope. I am especially interested in: 
• Passenger (the low cost way) Q My car (the lowest rate on the Atlantic) 
Name' • Street 
State-Citli— 

ing. Joe came to Notre Dame from Butler, Pennsylvania and has been in this territory ever since. Ed, a na­tive of South Bend, was all-western guard for three years on some of George Keogan's great basketball teams. He was Republican nominee for St. Joseph Count}', Indiana pros­ecutor in 1932. 
LARRY CARTON, according to word received from the Eastern front, has passed the New Jersey bar ex­am and begun his law practice as an associate of Arthur T. Vanderbilt, County Counsel for Essex County, in Newark, New Jersey. Larrj' still lives in Red Bank, New Jersey. He received his law degree at Hai-vard in 1932, where his roommates were JIM BRADY and BILL KREIG, both of '29. 
HARLEY McDEVITT was a %'isi­tor at Notre Dame recently. Harley was on his way back to New Jersey after a business trip through the West. 
JOHN F. COSGROVE is now op­erating the Cosgrove Clinical Labora­tory at 315 Ridge St., Newark, New Jersey. 
1930 
PAT MCLAUGHLIN sends the following news from Quincy, Illinois: 
"FRANCIS ROTH, e.\. '29, is en­gaged to be married. He was from Hannibal, Missouri, and now lives in St. Louis. LARRY MOLLER, '30, is back here with his dad in the lumber business. HANK THOLEN, '32, is with an oil company here and doing well 'fiUin' 'em up.' Some of the others have moved around, but we're all sawing wood—hoping for a break and trying to make one." 
1931 
Almost in the midst of some sub­zero February weather a letter came to the Alumni Office from TOM GOLDEN. Tom is now day clerk in the Hotel El Camino Real, King City, California, where the word "zero" isn't in the vocabulary except when a Coast football team takes a licking. He had been with GE in San Fran­cisco. King City, says Tom, is on the coast highway between Frisco and Los Angeles and he'll welcome with a special welcome all Notre Dame vis­itors. 
JOHNNY O'BRIEN stopped in South Bend for a few hours on his way to St. Louis where he was to sign a contract to become head foot­ball coach at St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, succeeding Jack Chev­igny who has transferred his activi­ties to the University of Texas in the same communitj'. The former phe­

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
nomenal end has been serving as as­sistant to Rip Miller at the United States Naval Academy. 
BILLY SULLIVAN who at various times has been so prominent in the affairs of the Chicago White Sox has been released under option to the Milwaukee club of the American As­sociation. Manager Lew Ponseca of the White Sox decided that a year in the minors, where he will probably have regular employment, will do much to develop in Billy the baseball ability which he so emphatically has. 
John Anderson, with his wife and two children, John W. HI and Eliza­beth, are residing in South Bend where John is employed as a drafts­man by the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company. He was married in August, 1930. 
A card from WILBERT L. TERRE brings the good news that he is now with the C. A. Siebel Co., Inc., Con­sulting Chemists and Chemical En­gineers, having been out of work for some time. He received his M.S. at the Univei-sity of Chicago. 
1932 
A welcome letter from ED MEH­REN brings us news of some of the boys of his territory, and his inter­esting work at the Rancho Santa Maria, Peoria, Arizona: "Occasional­ly I meet some Notre Dame men out here in the gi-eat open spaces of Ari­zona. JIM RYAN, '22, is a star sales­man for the Caterpillar Tractor Agency in Phoenix. And Jim is a darn good salesman. I see him fre­qeuntly. CHRIS REILLY, ex. '33, who lives in Tucson, is helping his father in the embalming business. Had a letter from HASKELL AS­KEW, '31, recently. Haskell travels the state of Oklahoma for the State Fire Marshal. He acts as a snooper in solving arson cases and manages to contact a number of Notre Dame men in his travels. 
"The citrus and date industry keeps me so busy that I find little time to wTite letters. I just finished putting on the Arizona Citrus Show. And now I am going to California Wednesday to study the National Orange Show at San Bernardino. Next year we are going to put on a real citrus show in Arizona. My ranch isn't in production as yet, but a few more years will see the build­ing of our machinery—units of citrus trees and date palms. There will be the fight and satisfaction arising out of selling something I am sold on. Yes, probably disappointments also. But it will be lots of fun—as is the growing of these desert fruits." One reason for Ed's enthusiasm might be 
March, 19Si 
the announcement which is listed in the engagement column. 
A letter from RICHARD G. CAN­NON, formerly of Milwaukee, Wis­consin, tells us that he is now in El­gin, Illinois, in the Cost Accounting Department of the Elgin National Watch Company. 
JACK LAMBERT, who is at pres­ent with the CWA in Connellsville, Pennsylvania, reports that he is con­tacting several prospective students and sends the following news for the Class: "LEO PREITAS is working for a subsidiary of Chrysler Motors and is going right to the top as an engineer. Some of the local boys have kept their activities secret. ED RILEY is at Studebakers; JERRY HODGES is at the University of Chi­cago. JOHNNY SIMKO and JIM YOCH are with the American Cater­pillar Co. at Peoria, Illinois." 
1933 
DICK CARTON is associated with his brother, Arthur B. Carton, Counselor at law, 371 Fulton St., Brooklvn, 
N. Y. 
A letter from GEORGE E. BOL­GER, 608 Kimball St., Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, includes the follow­ing: "After a rather extended vaca­tion of about two months I became one of the employees of the Michi­gan Bell Telephone Company and have been with them since that time. There are several ex-Notre Dame men about this vicinity now. FRAN­CIS ANTJARY, ex. '32, is manager of a local theatre, PETER CAMER­ON, '30, is in the lumber business with his father and is getting along famously. JOHN SHIMMENS, ex. '31, graduated from the University of Georgetown Law School last June. He married a Miss Margaret Brown of Washington, D. C, in the Fall. This past Januarj' he set up his law office in the Sault. Following the Notre Dame tradition of going after what he wants, he is running for Jus­tice of Peace. The primaries will be in March so I don't know yet whether he will be our next Justice or not. GERALD CLEARY, '21, of Escanaba, is one of the Democratic State Committeemen and is connected with a branch of the CWA. He was down here about a month ago and was asking about all the priests and professors at school." 
We were glad to hear from JIM GEREND, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, who says that news is scarce in the "igloo country," but sends the fol­lowing: "Last Fall, I attended a Packer game in Green Bay, and was surprised to see several class mem­bers there—RAY REULAND, who is a physical Ed. director at the Colum­bus Community Club, and PAUL KREUZ, who is working for the Na­tional Biscuit Company, I believe. 

March, 19Si 189 
THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
also hear that ART CAVENDER is working for some concern in Duluth, as well as teaching several times a week in an Academy in that city." 
In a letter to Father O'Hara Phil Weiss, ex. '33 says that he is in the senior class of the Buffalo Law School and expects to be graduated in June. In addition he gives the following "dope" about some of the boys: 
"Probably you would like to know something about the fellows from Batavia that you have known: 
Bill Neville—is still Dist. Atty. Kiff Casey — whom you knew as "Flatfeet" has a good law practice. KifF was City Justice of Peace until this year when I was drafted by the Democrats and ran against him and was lucky enough to \vin. We had quite a little fun out of the cam­paign. Frank Kaucman—is working for some flour company down in Ken­tucky. Joe Kearney is working for his brother in the ice cream business in this locality and is one of the best-liked fellows around. Art Canty is mari'ied and is down in New York in the real estate business. Tom Canty is in Batavia in the real es­tate business. Louie Smith is in New York. Jim Murray is in Batavia, and having difficulty passing the state bar exam, which can't be held against anyone. Probably you knew Jim as 'The Crook.' Mr. and Mrs. Glade are very well. Louie O'Shea of LeRoy, is traveling for some company." 
COLUMBIA PROTESTS 
Dean Herbert H. Hawkes, of Co­lumbia University, has taken excep­tion to the charge made in my speech published in the last issue of the ALUMNUS that two years ago Co­lumbia announced a new course, to be required of all sophomores, "in a freer conception of the relations. of the sexes, unhindered by law or reli­gion." Dean Hawkes explains the facts in the case as follows: 
The course in Contemporary Civilization, required for sophomores in Columbia College, has been orsantzed since 1929. This course has to do with the economic, social, and gov­ernmental aspects o£ our present day civiliza­tion. There is no one text book but a com­prehensive syllabus is prepared for the use of the students and many readings from various sources arc assigned. In the year 1932, in the section of the course having to do with mar­riage and the family, excerpts from a book written, as I am informed, by a member of the Catholic faith, were handed to students for reading in connection with one, or at most two, recitations out of 90 or 100 meetings oY the class during the year. This reading was criticized as being ill-suited to the needs of students in this class and was not used at all in most of the classes and only referred to lightly in any of them. This reading was never used again and. in order to be on the safe side, the entire section on marriage and the family has been withdrawn from the course. Columbia university did not 'announce a new course.' The material to which you refer was one day's work of one of our regular courses. I hope that this statement will clarify 

BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES 

Positions Wanted 

1.
 Recent graduate, now in East, wants connection in one of the fol­lowing fields: selling, publicity, speaking, contacts. 

2.
 Recent graduate, with exper­ience as hotel clerk, steward and head waiter, would like hotel con­nection in East or Middle West. 

3.
 Recent graduate (economics major) with license to teach in Wisconsin desires teaching posi­tion, preferably in Wisconsin. 

4.
 Recent commerce graduate, with experience in sales, credit work and purchasing (including some time on the road) is ^villing to go anywhere in Middle West or near East for good opening. Ex­perience entirely with lumber com­panies, but would be glad to enter another field. 


The Alumni Office will be more tlian happy to put prospective employers in toucli with the men listed here. 
your undcrstandin;; of our attitude and situa­tion. 
I have informed Dean Hawkes, for the purpose of the record, that the author of the book from which the excerpts in question were made was not a Catholic at the time the book was published. The excerpts in ques­tion presented only the arguments for free love as opposed to tradi­tional marriage. 
John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. Vice-President. 



ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Pace 177) 

however, took advantage of the first break he got in the weather, and invited them out with only a day's notice. 
The practice marked the first intro­duction of the new coaches to their prospective stars. The coaches are Joe Roland, 1924, 1925, and 1926 tackle star; Donald C. (Chet) Grant, who played quarterback in 1916,1920 and 1921, serving in the World War in 1917, 1918, and 1919; and Tom Conley, 1930 captain and the only returning member of the 1932 staff. 
The five major newsreel companies recorded Layden's coming for poster­ity, this figure being one over par for spring practice. Layden went to work as soon as he stepped on to the field, first glimpsing some punters prac­ticing, telling them that they might as well kick the right way if they planned to kick, and proceeding to show them how with a boot of 55 yards which split his target. This incident is not especially important except that it gives you an idea of how this determined, capable, thin-lipped young man works. 
If 70U -would like 10 sail away this rammer to the world's most thrilling lands—to Japan, China and the loreljr 
Viillippittcf,anddohfornomorflhanyroumighteatilx tptnd for a vtty ordinaty eacatian—see yonr nearest travel agent at once, or send us the coopon beloir for all detail;*. Roundtrip fares on the celebrated President Liners (the ones that let yoa stopovtf Kxactljr atjrou choose betweenNew York and California, or the Orient, and Round the World) are almost imbelievably loir. And shore expenses in the Orient need be BO more than one-tlunl of like costs here at homel 





DOLLAR AMElllCitN 

604 Fifth Are., New York; 110 S. Dearborn St.. Chicago: 760 Stuart Bids., Seattle; 311 Ca]ironiiaSt.,San Fmn* cisco. Or Bo-itun. 'Washington, Clereland, Toronto. Lot Angles, V:incuuver, H. C, Portland, Ore, San Di^o. 
Please 9end yuur new folder deacribin* all of the President IJ acr cruises, and oblt^ 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Jo­
•eph H. Kraker. 29. 1776-24th St, Cay­ahoea Falls. Ohio. President; Claude H. Homine. '29. 133 N. Highland Ave.. Akron, Ohio, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZON.^— James D. Barry, '97, Consolidated Bank Bids:.. Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. '25. 620 N. Sixth St, Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev.' Geo. F. X. Strassner. '14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1326 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C.. '02, Dac­ca, President; Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C., Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTKE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Joseph C. Sullivan. 53 State St.. Boston. Mass., President: Robert J. Heam. 43 Chester Road, Belmont. Mass.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF BUFFALO— Henry L. Bums. '29. 191 Euclid Ave.. President; Franklin O'Marah. '30, 1165 Delaware Ave. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUMET DISTRICT —C . Patrick Maloney. '16. 219 Pettibone Ave.. Crown Point. Ind.. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPI­TAL DISTRICT—Thomas Dollard. '21. 200 9th St., Troy. New York, President: John Vincent Smith, '29, 252 First St, Albany, New York, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— Austin McNichols. '17. CO. W. A. Ale:c­ander & Co.. 134 S. LaSalle St. Presi­dent; William P. Kearney. '28. 507 County Bide, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert Hushes, '29. 3565 Burch Ave.. President: W. D. Morrisscy, '26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Matthew Trudelle. '17. 1023 Scofidd Bide.. President; J. Patrick Canny, "28. 
C.O. Erie Railroad Lecal Dept. Medical Arts Bids.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTTCUT VALLEY — William 3: Granfield. '13, State Bide.. 1200 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.. President; James A. Curry, '14, 647 Main St, Hartford, Conn.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift '24. 422 In­terurban Bide., Dallas, President Fran­cis A. McCulloueh, '3D, 917 First Nat^ ional Bank Bldg., Dallas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer, '08, 36 Spirea Drive. President; Andrew A. Aman. Jr.. '30. 210 Lexinfiton Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— 
O. L. HouEh. '27, 1375 Race St.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —James C. Shaw. '22. 307 Equitable Bide.. President: F. M. Wonderlin. '29. 302 Hubbell BWe.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John T. Hieeins. '24. 1632 Buhl Bide.. President; Paul J. Dooley. '25. 6202 Hamilton Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—James D. Hayes, '17, 5115 Eiehth St, N. W., Washineton, Presi­dent; Harry M. Ambrose, '25. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17. Erie Daily Times, President; "Thomas Barber, '24. 416 Newman St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY—James Murphy. '22. 611 Sec­urity Bide.. Bridffeport Conn.. Presi­dent: Joseph E. Russo. '32. 166 Houeh Ave.. Bridgeport Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FT. WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eeecman, '30. Old First Bank Bide.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office, City Hall, Green Bay, Wis., Pres­ident; Levi A. Geniesse, '24, 510 Mina­han Bide., Green Bay. Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH—George E. Ludwig, '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave., N. W. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini, '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr.. S.E.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAinLTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums. 'S6. 338 S. Second St. President: Marc A. Fiehrer. '27. 701 Rentschlcr Bide.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA-L.AND—Norman Bartholomew, '15. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President; Michael S. Corry, '27. 837 Terrace Ave, Marinette, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. "Texas. President: T. F. Green. Jr., "27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIAN­APOLIS — Robert Kirby. "29. 1901 N. Meridian. President: John T. Rocap. '30. 129 E. Market St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Jo­seph Silk. '20. 820 Ohio St. President: Thomas Fecley. '32, 316 Buell Ave.. Scc­rctarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ICANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave., F t Leavenworth, Kansas. President: John 
M. Duean, '27, 4427 Tracy St, Kansas City, Mo„ Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebcrt '30, U. of Kansas. Wich­ita, President; Dan Welchons. '30. 306 
E. 13th St. Hutchinson, Kansas, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Wm. A. Reisert. Jr.. '30. Reisert Ins. Agency, 352 Starks BIdg., Louisville, Ky., President; Herman J. Ohligselilae­er. '29. Broadway at 30th St. Nat'l. Concrete Construction Co., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUN­
•TY—William B. Chawgo. '31. 404 S. La­Salle St. Aurora, III.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPOBTE. INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indiana Ave.. Laportc. President; Nor­man Duke. '33. 304 Niles St, Laporte. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP LOS AN­GELES—Judge A. A. Scott '22. 2205­8th Ave., President: Edward P. Cun­ningham, '30, 1031 S. Grand Ave.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUIStANA-MISSISSIPPI-P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St, New Orleans, President; Cyp­rian A. Sporl. Jr., '28, Whitney-Central BIdg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA— Jacobo Zobel, '23, Manila, P.I. President: 
A. F. Gonzales, '25, Insular Life Bide.. 2nd FI., Manila, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAStE CLUB OP MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr.. 1878 Union Ave.. President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —P. Dudley Pearson, '19, 2037 N. Lake Drive, President; Victor G. Woestc, '29, 1819 E. Kenwood Bide., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP MONTANA— Earl W, Brown. '93, 320 Power St, Helena, President; James B. O'FIynn. '11, Great Palls, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE^­Robert P. Williams. Jr., '29, 106 GalUi­tin Road, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASIw\— Gerald J. Barrett. '22. 315 S. 37th St. Omaha. Secrctarj*. 
NOTRB DAME CLUB OF NEW JER­SEY—Robert Phelan, '22, 481 William St. East Orange. N. J.. President: Joseph Nulty, '27, 945 Madison Ave., Elizabeth, K. J.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CTTY OF NEW YORK—WiUiam A. Walsh. '97, 16-18 S. Broadway. Yonkers. New York. President: J. Norbert Gelson. Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — Royal H. Bosshard, *17. 315 Montgomery St, San Francisco, Pres'ident; Robert B. HiU. '23. 6033 Proctor Ave., Oakland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON— Nat McDoueall, '00, 652 Sherlock BIdg., Portland. President: Thomas D. McMa­hon. '27, Yeon BIdg.. Portland. Secretary. 
NOTRE' DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO — Raymond J. Eichenlaub. 'IS. Hosier Realty BIdg., Columbus. President 

.NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA —^Thomas F. Shea. o. s., '09. 902 Ex­ciiange Natl. Bank. Tulsa, President; Leo A. Schumacher. '13, King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS-Hold­ers of Permanent Scats: Louis P. Harl, 
•16. Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA — Harry Francis. Jr.. '30. 16 Spring Ave.. Ardmore. Pa.. President; Thomas J. Magee, '32, 5801 Chew St, Philadelphia. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP PEORIA. ILL. —Albert F. Gary, '28. 704 W. Wilcox Ave.. President; Joseph Langton. '28. 207 Hillyer Place. Secretary-
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF. ROCHESTER Ward Schlotzer, '17. 136 Lennox St, President; Richard Sullivan, '32, 233 Elicott St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP KOCK RTVEB VALLEY—Raymond C. Marelli, '27, 1418 Eighth St, Rockford, HI., Presi-" dent; Francis W. Howland. '25, 902 N. Main St, Rockford, 111., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF RHODE ISLAin)—Charles A. Grimes, '20, Para­mount Bide., Providence, President: Qr­rn A. Oostello. "29. 44 Huxley Ave.. Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul M. Butler, '27, 802 LO.O.F. Bids.. South Bend. Ind.. President: Norman J. Hnrtzer. '29, 843 Forest Ave.. South Bend. Ind.. Secre­tary. 

Local Alumni Clubs LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES 
(ConUnncd) 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— 

Year Naine Address
Dr. Thomas R. Kennedy, '14, 4200 Find Ave., St. Louis. President: Joseph 

Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Fitchbur?, Mass. Switzer, 32, 323 N. Broadway, St. Louis. 1880—85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson Cirdeville, Ohio Secretao'. 1886 Michael O. Burns 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CXTY— 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier P.O. Box 606, Fort Meyers, Florida 

Vincent F. Harrington, *25, Continental 1888 John L. Heineman Connersville, Indiana Mortsage Co., President. 
1889 P. E. Burke 301 Camp St., New Orleans, La. NOTRE DAME CLUB OP SYRACUSE 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Vincent 1894 Hugh A. O'DonncIl The New York Times, New York City Brown. '23, 1418 James St., Syracuse, 
1S95 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. .860 f helan Bldg- San Francisco, Calif. 
President: Vincent Goulet, "26, 125 Green St., Syracuse, Secretary. 

1896 William P. Burns 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City. Indiana 
1897 Rev. John A. MacNamara P. O. Bos 64, Bel Air, Maryland NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN AN­
1898 Wm. C. Keglcr 9th and Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio TONIO—Harold Tynan, '27, 240 E. Hui­
sacke Ave., President: Kirwin J. Wil­1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 418 Jefferson Bldg., Peoria, Illinois liams, '28, 319 W. Gramercy, Secretary. 1900 John W. Eggeman Old First Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1300, 139 N. Qark St.. Chicago, HI.
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Metaore St., 

1902 C. C. Mitchell 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicago, El. President: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 1903 Francis P. Burke 904 Trust Company Bldg., Milwaukee. Wisconsin 
Sycamore St., Secretary. 

1904 Robert Proctor Monger Bldg., Elkhart. Indiana NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Illinois Fred A. Sprenger, '30, 3129 Kimball 
1906 Thomas A. Lally 811-13 Paulsen Bide., Spokane. Washington 
Ave., President; Joseph L. Wetli, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Sccretarj*. 

1908 Frank X. Cull Bulkley Bldg.. Cleveland, Ohio 1909 E. P. Cleary P. O. Box 356, Momence, Illinois 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift. '20. Kahl BIdi;., Dav­

1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland. Ohio enport. Iowa. President: Arthur L. Him-1911 Fred L. Steers 1635 First National Bask Bldg., Chicago, Illinois bert. '.I". .127 .'Wth Si.. Rock I.«l.in<l. 111.. 
1912 B. J. Kaiser 324 Fourth St., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Secretary. 

1913 James R. Devitt 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE 1914 Frank H. Hayes 1252 Newport Ave., Chicago, Illinois CITIES—Joseph Carey, '32. 20 Roose­James Sanford 
1915  E. 1033 S. Linden Ave.. Highland Park. HI. 
velt Ave., Endicott. N. Y., President: Joseph Hennessy, '30. 22 Fourth St., 

1916 Timothy P. Galvin 70S First Trust Bldg., Hammond. Indiana Johnson City, N. Y., Secretary. 1917 Edward J. McOsker 104 S. Union St.. Elgin, Illinois 1918 John A. Lenuner 1110-8th Ave., S., Escanaba, Michigan 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— 1919 Clarence Bader 650 Pierce St., Gary, Indiana Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, President: Rod­

erick Sullivan, '24, 15 S. Fifth St.. Min­1920 Leo B. Ward 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angeles, California neapolis, Minn., Secretary'. 1921 Alden J. Cusick 1 Park Ave.. New York City 1922 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, New York 
Gerald Ashe NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UT.-\H—Ray­

mond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bldg., 1923 Paul Castner \Vhite Motor Company. Cleveland, Ohio Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har-1924 James F. Hayes Fifth Avenue Ass'n., Empire State Bldg., N. Y. City 
becke, '19. 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec. John W. Scallan 
1925 Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St., Chicago, HI. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH 1926 96 N. Walnut St., East Orange. N. J. 
Dr. Gerald W. Hayes VALLEY—Noble Kizer,'25, Purdue Uni­Edmund DeGorn 
1927 SUS EUit Ave., Chicago. 111. 
versity, Lafayette, Ind., President: Peter 
Louis Buckley 

1928 718 B. Corby St.. South Bend, Indiana 1929 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis. Indiana •. 
Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
Joseph McNamara 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OP EASTERN 1930 Bernard W. Conroy 72 Barrow St., New York City 
PENNSYLVANIA — Leo R. Mclntyre, John K. Boland 1931 3624 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. Pennsylvania '28. Bethlehem, Pa., President. 
Herbert Giorgio 

1932 9005 188th St., Hollis, U I.. New York 
Donald Wise 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA. NEW 1933 1246 Hillcrest Road, South Bend, Indiana 
YORK—Dr. John F. KcHey, '22, Peoples' Gas & Electric Bldg.. President: Joseph 
W. Fullem, '31. 1G21 Neilson St., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA —John B. Rc-irdon, '22, 15 Union Bank Bldg.. Pittsburgh, 

President: Joseph Bach, '25, Duqucsne DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
University Athletic Dept,, Pittsburgh, Secretary. 

Dktriet iVanic Address '. • ' '• NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF WESTERN I John W. Esseman. '00 Old First Bank BIdff., Fort; Wayne, Ind. " 
WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon. 

II Daniel Hilgartner, Jr., '17 2039 E. 72nd PI., Chicago, IlUnois. -J
'02. 4th & Pike St. Bldg.. Rm. 813. Se­attle. Wiwh.. President; E. Morris Star-

III E. C. McHush. '13 4220 Cherry St., Cincinnati, Ohio ••'.. rett. *21. SOI Wn.shinKton St.. Port IV John V. Diener, '09 704 Cass St., Green Bay, Wisconsin Townscnd. Wash.. Secretary. 
V Raymond J. Kelly. '15 City Hall. Detroit. Michigan NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY 
VI Thomas Farrell, '26 1S4 N. Walnut St.. East Orange. New Jersey —John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington VII William A. Daunt, '08 110 E. 42nd St. New York City Ave., President: James M. Jlonaghan, 
VIII Dr. Robert Bums. "17 948 Main St.. Buffalo. New York 
•27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 

IX Joseph P. Gartland. *27 60 Coneress St. Boston, Mass. NOTRE DvVJIE CLUB OF WHEELING. X Anselm D. Miller. '25 1238 Staple St., Roanoke. Va. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citi­XI Harold Foley. '21 Foley, Florida zens-Peoples Trust Co,, Wheeling, Presi­dent: George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, 
XII Frank Blocmer, '22 126 E. Jefferson St. Louisville, Ky. Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. Arthur Csrmody. *15 819 Slattery BIdff., Shreveport, La. ;
xm 
Joseph A. ilenger. '25 107 Catherine Court San Antonio, Texas . -,,_.' 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE XIV Dr. D. M. Nicro, *14 531 A.rt^yle Bldg.. Kansas City. Missouri . :•' 
DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P., Mt- St, Mary-on-the-Hudson, Newburgh, XV Richard B. Swift, 20 Kahl Bldg.. Davenport, Iowa New York, President: Miss Rose Stef-Dr. R. C. Monahan. '90 418 Hennessy Bldg.. Butte. Montana 
xvr 
faniak, 161 Walnut St.. Coldwater, Mich. XVII Robert Fox. '01 5730 17th Ave. Parkway. Denver. Colorado Secretary. XVIII 
James D. Barry, '97 

82 W. Pennington St, Tucson, Arizona XIX 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP YOUNGS-Howard Parker. '17 Sutter Glub. Sacramento, California 
TOWN—John Moran. '29. 1348 Quinn, XX 
E. M. Starrett, *21 

801 Washington St. Port Townsend, Washington President: Charles Cushwa, '31, 2227 XXI 
Cordova Ave.. Secretary. Alfonso Zobcl. '24 CO. Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna. Manila, P. L
XXII 



estenield 
the cigarette thats MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES BETTER 
© 1934. UGCETT SI'MVERS TOBACCO CO . 




