The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago Observes 18th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Msgr. Sheen, J. P. Kennedy Reunion Plans Are Many Clubs Report on 
U.N.D. Observances 

to Address Class of 1941 Announced in Detail 
Vol. 19 MAY, 1941 No. 7 
PROGRAM 
I \­
97th Annual 
I \
^' 
•I 
.^' 
^ ^ 
.^ 

0^J^ 

May 30-31 June 1 
I 'I ^^ : i ' 

Friday, May 30 (Memorial Day) 
of Alumni, Alumni Office. Main Building. (Alumni this year must register in the Alumni Office before registering in the Halls for room assignments.) 
Opening of the Annual Alumni Golf Tournament on the 18-Hole William J. Burke-University Course on the Campus. 
Resist i-ation 

9:00 A.M. Memorial Day Mass, the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church. 
Ilie Mass Uiis year will be specially offered for deceased alumni, and for alumni in the armed forces. 
Address— 

1:00 P.M. Forum for Alumni: In the General Field of Politics. 
A Panel Discussion by Faculty and Alumni Leaders, followed by an open 
forum. 

• In the auditorium of the John F. Cushing, G.E., '06 Hall of Engineering;. 
3:00 P. M. Baseball, the University of California vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
6:00
 P.M. President's Dinner for the Class of 1916, Faculty Dining Room of the University Dining Halls. ~ 

6:00
 P.M. Reunion Dinner, Glass of 1931. the Indiana Club. South Bend. 


6:30 P.M. Concert. University Band. Main Quadrangle. 
8:00 P.M. Concert, the University Glee Club, Washington Hall. 
8:30 P. M. Smoker and Reunion of the Class of 1936. Carroll Rec Room. North Ground Floor of Washington Hall. 

Saturday, May 31 
Continuation of Registration of Alumni. Finals of the Alumni Golf Tournament. 

9:30 A.M. Last Visit to Sacred Heart Qiurch, a private ceremony of the Class of 1941. 
Rev. Th(Hnas Irving, G.S.C., presiding. 
10:00 A. M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding of Honors. Class of 1941. Washington 
Hafl. 

11:00 A.M. Annual Softball Game of the Reunion Classes. 1936 vs. 1931. Walsh-Badin 
diamond. 

12:00 M. Reunion Luncheon of the Class of 1926, Faculty Dining Room, University 
Dining Halls. 

1:30 P. M. Baseball, the University of CBlifomia vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
3:30 P. M. Alumni Forum: In the General Field of Economics. 
A Panel Discussion by Facol^ and Alumni Leaders, followed by an Open 
Forum, in the anditorinm of The John F. Gushing. C.E.. '06, Hall of 
Engineering. 

4:00 P. M. "The Gondoliers." a Preaentatirai of the University Theatre. Washington Hal! 
(This performance is beins given primarily for the parents of the Seniors, 
and friends. Tickets wiU be siven to the <3ass of 1941, without charge, and 
admission will be by ticket ooly.) 

6:00 P.M. The Alumni Banquet. East Hall of the University Dining Halls (Admission 
this year by ticket only, tickets to be secured by alumni from the Alumni 
Office). Address, the President of the University. Rev. Hu ^ O'Donnell, 
C.S.C.. '16. 

6:30 P.M. Concert, the University Band. Hain Quadrangle. 
8:40 P.M. "The Gondoliers," a Presentation of the University Theatre, Washington 
Hall. (This performance is primarily for alumni, to whom tickets will be 
given by the Alumni Office.) 


Sunday, June 1 
8:30 A. M. Academic Procession from the Hain Building to the University Gymnasium. 9 ;00 A. M. Solemn Pontifical Hass, University Gymnasium. 
Most Bev. John F. Noll, DJ>., "ULXi., '15, Celehrant. Music hy the University Choir of Korean Seminary. Baccalaureate Sermon: The Right Beverend Honsi^nor Fulton J. Sheen, 
Catholic University of America. (Immediately foUowint: the Mass, the American Flas, presented by the Class 
of 1941 to the University on Washinston'a Birthday, will be blessed and car­
ried in procession to be raised on the flagpole on the Main Quadrangle. The 
procession will be led by the University Band.) 
11:00 A. M. Administration Beception for Visitors, lioanse of the Rockne Memorial. 
(Members of the University Administration and Deans of the Colleges will 
receive.) 

12:00 M. Luncheon of the Honogram Hen, West HaD, University Dining Halls, open 
to all monogram men. 

2:30 to fConcert in the Gymnasium, the University Choir of Horeau Saninary, 
3:00
 P.H. lassisted by Mr. Danid Pedtke, organist. 

3:00
 P.M. Awarding of the Degrees to the Class of 1941. University Gymnasium. 


(Preceded, as in the morning exercises, by an academic procession fnnn the 
Main Building to the Universi^ Gymnasium.) The Commencement Address: Honoiable Joseph P. Kennedy. 
(All Events on Central Stamdard Time. Subject to madifieation. See final prognmt at Commeneement.) 




The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Thia masaxine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except Jamaaiy). fay 11M IJaliMrilf af Moti* DaMi^ 
Notxe Dame, Indiana. Entered aa aaoond clasa matter October 1, 1939, at Vte TtMUMeK Katia Itaiii. Tadiani. nadw the 
act of AntEUSt 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Onincil and of the Nattaoal Qhlhelfa Ahnmi JWamtfan. JAMES E. AsMsmoNc. 75. EJitor; WILLIAM R . DOOLEV, "26, Manapttf ESlor 
Vol. 19 MAY. 1941 No. 7 
Msgr. Sheen, Kennedy to Address '41 Class 
Speakers and Program Point to Continuing Advance 
in Interest, Attendance, Variety and Achievement for 
Week-End Events; Something to Attract Every Fancy. 
Any thought the Alumni OfSce may have had that the gentle touch we are agreeing with you should be made (to defray costs of alumni attendance at Commencement) might serve as any det­riment to the number returning has been shattered by the announcement of the program (see program page). 
Rt. Rev. Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen and Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy immediately put the Sunday ceremonies on almost a ticket-scalping basis. 
The Memorial Day coincidence with the Friday of Commencement will g^ive the Reunion Classes the first opportunity in many years to bring back their full complement on this opening day. The dis­pensation for meat in the Fort Wayne diocese for that day also gives the Re­union Dinner chairman a unique advan­tage. Because of the holiday, the Alumni Office hopes to have a number of rooms ready in the alumni halls on Thursday 
COMMENCEMENT REGISTRATION BY TICKETS 

Registration in the halls for rooms, and attendance at the alumni banquet, will be by tickets. This is the step long sought by many alumni, and approved by the Alumni Board. The amount asked will be extremely nominal, merely an effort to offset the actual physical ex­pense of the large influx of alumnL Maximum contribution asked will be $4 for the entire week-end. Those living nearby, attending only the alumni ban­quet, will be asked for only $1. 
Register at the Alumni Oifice this year before you go to your halls. The Office will be open Thursday night, Fri­day night and Saturday night, with pro­vision made for very late arrivals at the main entrance of the campus. 
night, which is another departure from our possibilities of recent years. 
Precedent is further augmented by the introduction this year on Friday and Saturday of two Forums for Alumni. The first, in keeping with the nature of the holiday, will stress current political problems. The second, answering the alumni response to inquiry, will stress current economic problems. Faculty lead­ers and alumni will open the discussion, and free and open questioning from the audience is the primary objective. This phase of the Commencement should add much of interest, and much of value for those making the Commencement trip. The Alumni Office believes that there will be' substantial attendance. 
The President of the University will give the key address at the Alumni Ban­quet, a talk of double significance since the Centennial is so imminent and the program of the University is developing so constantly and rapidly; and the Presi­dent this year also represents the 25­Year Beunion Class, Rev. Hugh OTJon­nell, C.S.C., Class of 1916. 
Entertainment reaches a new high. 

Two bang-up ball games, with the powerful University of California nine, appear on the Friday and Saturday pro­gram. Coach Jake Kline has the type of team this year that is not too consistent and gains much color thereby. 
"The Gondoliers," one of Gilbert and Sullivan's most tuneful and colorful pro­ductions, a smash hit of the University Theatre this spring, is being held over for Commencement by popular demand. The production is under the direction of Cecil Birder, 14, head of the Depart­ment of Speech. Rev. Matthew Coyle, C.S.C., '18, is in general supervision of the University Theatre. Two perform­ances are planned so that the many vis-
HoB. JoM|^ P. Kennedy 
Rt. Rev. Migr. Fulton J. Sheen itors and the alumni may be accommo­dated in the limited auditorium facilities of Washington Hall. 
Beunion Classes are -working -well ahead of any previous year. Secretaries and chairmen of 1936, 1931, 1926, 1921, and 1916, particularly, are set for major reunions both in program and attend­ance. 
The golf course has enjoyed one of the best weather build-ups of recent years and is in top shape for a popular outlet. Both the lakes and the Bockne Memorial will be a-^sailable for the more strenuous exercists among the returned. 
The Glee Club, which has set several gatherings on fire with its program this year, especially the "Song of the Free" feature, will give a concert in Washing­ton Hall on Friday evening. And Prof. Casasanta's Notre Dame Band will flood the quadrangle with two evening con­certs and provide a marching musical touch to the flag-raising. The Moreau Choir and Prof. Daniel Pedtke at the organ, will add to the beauty of the Sunday ceremonies. 
The monogram luncheon on Sunday, the smokers, the Softball game, — these and the always preferred informalities of the week-end gathering of Notre Dame men — will serve to fill one of the busiest and most pleasant Commence­ments in prospect in many years. 
The participation of the alumni, and your aid in enabling the various events on the program to be carried out, will be appreciated. 
BIOGRAPHIES SHEEN, R L Rev. Fulton John, educa­tor, author; b. El Paso, 111., May 8, 1895; s. Newton M. and Delia (Fulton) S.; Ednc St, Mary's Sch., Peoria, III.; Spalding Inst., Peoria; St. Viator Coll., Bourbonnais, III.; St. Paul (Minn.) Sem.; Catholic Univ. of Amer.; Univ. of Lonvaiir, Belgium; Angelico Univ., Rome; (A.B., J.C.B., Ph.D., D.D.; hon. 
LL.D. and Litt.D.); ordained at Peoria, Sept. 20, 1919; Rt. Rev. Msgr., 1935. Prof., dept of scholastic philos.. Catholic Univ. of Amer. Author: God and Intelli­gence (1925); Religion without God (1928); The Life of all Living (1929); The Divine Romance (1930); Old Errors and New Labels (1931); Moods and Truths (1932); The Ways of the Cross (1932); The Seven Last Words (1933); The Eternal Galilean (1934); the Phi­losophy of Saence (1934); The Mystical Body of Christ (1935); The Queen of the Seven Swords; The Lord's Prayer on the Cross (1935); Calvary and the Mass (1936); The Moral Universe (1936); Communism (1937); Commun­
ism and Religion (1937); Liberty Under Commnnism (1937); contbr. to reviews. Mem.: Catholic Philos, Assn. (sec-treas., 

1928 ): Medieval Acad. Address: Maritime Commn., Mar.-Dec '37; apptd. Catholic University, Washington, D. C ambassador to Gt. BriL, Dec '37-'41. —The American Catholic Who's Who, 1940-1941. Hon. LL.D. Nad. U. of Ireland, Dublin, '38. Democrat. 
KENNEDY, Joseph Patrick, diplomat, 

—The American Catholic Who's Who, 1940-1941. business exec; b. Boston, Sept. 6, 1888; 
s. Patrick J. and Mary (Hickey) K.; 


BISHOP NOLL HONORED 

grad, Boston Latin Sch. 1908; A,B., Harvard, 1912; m. Rose Fitzgerald, of The Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Boston, Mass., Oct. 7, 1914; ch.—Joseph LL.D., '15, bishop of Fort Wayne, has P., John F., Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, been honored by the Holy Father in be­Patricia, Robert, Jeanne, Edward; bank ing appointed an Assistant at the Ponti­examiner for Mass., 1912-14; pre*. fical Throne. Word of the honor reached Columbia Trust Co., Boston 1914-17; His Excellency through the Apostolic asst. gen.mgr. Fore River (Mass.) Delegate to the United States, the Most plant Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corpn., Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani. 1917-19; mgr. Hayden-Stone Co., in­The honor comes to Bishop Noll in vestment bankers, Boston br. 1919-recognition of his services to the Church 24; pres. and chmn. bd. dirs. Film during the 16 years of his episcopate, Booking Offices of America 1926-29; and in particular for his accomplish­chmn. dirs. Keith, Albee, Orpheum The­ments through the Catholic press, in the atres Corpn. 1928-29; pres. and dunn. institution of the Society of Missionary bd.dirs. Pathe Exchange, Inc, 1929-30; Catechists, and his recent efforts as di­corporation finance, 1930-34; apptd. to rector of a nation-wide drive sponsored Securities Exchange Commn., July 2, by Our Sunday Visitor for funds with 1934; elected chmn., 1934, re-elected, which to erect in Washington a gigantic 1935, resigned, Sept. '35; chmn. U.S. statue of Christ as Light of the World. 
l«1lll»llllllllllltlll»lltlllllltlll»lllllttll>tl>ltlllllilllllllll»llllllllllllllWWtlMWMlt,ltillllllHtHIIHIIIllllllllllHllHIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIiimilMBl 
Gifts 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From Mr. P. C. Eeilly, trustee, Indianapolis, Lid., for the Art Gallery of the University. 
"Dutchess of Orainien," painting in oil by Peter Paul Rubens and Theodore Van Thulden. 
"A Mountaintop in Norway," painting in oil by A. Disen, 1903. 
"St. Jerome in the Grotto," painting in oil by Luca Giordano. 
"Joan of Arc," bronze replica of the original by Paul Dubois. 
"Carrist taken from the Cross," bronze statue by F. Andreson. 
For the Law Library. "Pillars of American Democracy." A collec­tion of accurate reproductions of oil portraits of Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson. Also Albertypes on exact scale of the Decla­ration of Independence, Bill of Rights and Constitution of the United States. 
From Mrs. Alice Wickett, Chicago, supplementing her earlier gifts to the Wickett Collection in the University Art Galleries: 2 gilt French console tables with green marble tops; 1 small, carved marble-top table; 3 carved oak pedestals; 1 carved oak chest; 1 bronze chandelier. 
From the Rev. Arthur D. Spearman, SJ., Los Angeles, for the Uni­versity Library. Two first edition volumes from the personal library of his father, the late Frank "H. Spearman, Laetare Medalist of 1935. 
From the McCaddin-McQuirk Foundation, New York, for the University Library. Two sets of sermons, by the late Rt. Rev. John McQuirk, D.D., LL.D. 
From Miss Agnes O'Dowd, of (Cincinnati, for the University Archives. "(Jeneral and Regimental Order Book, Company D, 10th Ohio V.L" 1861-63. 
Anonymous, for the Thomas J. UcKeon Memorial Fund $400.00 
(Sig.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. President of the University 
B" IIIM^ 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
PETER C. REILLY GIFT 
University of Notre Dame's Wight-man Memorial Art Gallery has been greatly enriched recently by the addi­tion of four outstanding pieces, the gift of Peter C. Reilly, trustee of the Uni­versity, and a resident of Indianapolis. 
In this collection are two large paint­ings: one the "Duchess of Orainien," by Peter Paul Rubens and Theodore Van Thulden, and the other "A Mountaintop in Norway," by A. Diejen, painted in 1903. 
The portrait of the Duchess of Orain­ien, painted by Rubens and his pupil, Van Thulden, is a good example of the close relationship between the work of the master and the apprentice. It is also a very valuable source for observing Rubens' technique and will be of great interest to students of the history of art. The figure of the Duchess was painted by Rubens and the background was done by his assistant. 
Peter Paul Rubens was, perhaps, the greatest master of the Baroque period. He employed a number of young men as pupil craftsmen to work on his nu­merous commissions. At one time he had as many as fifty apprentices working on his series commemorating the marriage of Henry of Navarre and Mira de Med­
ici. These 21 large canvas panels are now in the Louvre or were until the outbreak of the war. 
Van' Thulden did not meet Rubens until the latter was nearly a middle-aged man, but he remained as his helper until the death of his teacher. Rubens employed the young man to complete his series of paintings for the French court and late Van Thulden returned to Paris to decorate the royal apartments of the palace of Fountainbleau and the Luxem­bourg for Louis Xnr. Prior to his death in 1676 Van Thulden was elected Mas­ter of the Antwerp Guild, but his popu­larity did not survive like that of his teacher. 
Also included in the gift to the art collection are two bronzes, one of Joan of Arc, and the other a Pieta figure of Christ, entitled "Dead Christ" by An­dreson. 
Paul Dubois, creator of the equestri­an figure of St. Joan, was a student of Toussaint and made his debut in the Salon in 1863 by exhibiting a statue of St. John. Probably his most famous work is the. statue of Jeanne d'Arc, which 
Joan of Arc — in bronze 

stands before the Cathedral at Rheims. So far as is known there are three repli­cas of this work, the one now at Notre Dame, one in Paris, and one in Strass­bourg. 
N. D. MUSIC WEEK 
The Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra, directed by Eugene Ormandy, provided an exciting climax, on Friday, May 1, to the University's annual Music Week. Playing in the gymnasium before 5,000 persons, the orchestra was sponsored jointly by the South Bend Civic Music Association and the University. 
Rose Bampton, world-famous soprano, was another highlighted attraction of Music Week. She sang in the gymnasium on Monday as the guest artist of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and drew the cheers of 4,500. 
The nationally appreciated choir of Augustana College, Rock Island, 111., presented a concert before an enthusias­tic audience on Wednesday evening. A concert by the Notre Dame Band on Sunday and a joint concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club and the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra on Tuesday com­pleted an exceptional week. 
ART EXHIBIT 
Robert Moyer, Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio, was adjudged to have entered the outstanding work in the sixth annual High School Art Survey conducted, from April 16 to April 30, by the Notre Dame Department of Art Several hundred pieces from high school students in Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Mich­igan and Wisconsin were entered. 
ACCOUNTING CONFERENCE Approximately 80 public and private accountants from Illinois, Michigan, In­diana, and Ohio gathered at Notre Dame for their regional cost conference on April 18 and 19. This conference, spon­sored by the South Bend Chapter of the National Association of Cost Account­ants, was also open to the 120 junior and senior students of the Accounting Department at Notre Dame. Notable speakers present for the con­ference included Victor H. Stempf, presi­dent of the National Association of Cost Accountants; E. A. Kracke, associated with Haskins & Sells, acounting firm in New York; Logan Monroe, Cleveland, Ohio, assistant treasurer of the Eaton Manufacturing Company; and John L. Carey, executive secretary of the Ameri­can Institute of Accountants. • 
CS.C. CHAPLAINS Four priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross are now serving as chap­lains in various Army camps. All of them are on active duty as reserve offi­cers in the U. S. Army. Father Robert W. Woodward, CS.C, '28, former assistant professor of phil­osophy at Notre Dame, is chaplain of the 245th Field ArtiUery, Ft. Hancock, N. J. Father George J. Welch, CS.C, '29, is with the 35th Division, at Fort Robin­son, near Little Rock, Ark. Until recently he was an instructor in history at Notre Dame. -Father Joseph D. Barry, CS.C, '29, is a chaplain attached to the 45th Divi­sion at Camp Barkeley, Abilene, Texas. He was formerly an assistant in St. Jo­seph's Parish, South Bend. Father Ed­ward K. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., '30, a for­mer member of the Notre Dame Mission Band, is stationed at Fort Devens, Mass. 
U. N. D. Night Radio Addresses 
The world is in deeper shadow than when we met on Universal Notre Dame Night a year ago. War-ridden Europe is still reaping the harvest sown in age-old feuds. Our own beloved country — as yet at peace, as we pray it may remain 
— is preparing for whatever the morrow may bring. 
As always, Notre Dame is cooperating with the government, and -Alma Mater salutes especially tonight her sons in the various camps throughout the country. I am proud of all of you. 
I believe in preparedness. I want our country to be strengthened so that it can meet any attack from without. As true Americans, let us support our Chief Executive and the legislation already enacted by Congress for the defense of our shores. And may the spirit of fra­ternal charity characterize the discus­sion of future legislation, in accordance with our traditional way of life. 
We hear a great deal at present about the danger from without. In my opin­ion, however, the deadlier enemy is the enemy from within. He is American in name but in little else. He is the so-called "educator" who divorces education from religion and morality. He is the ex­ponent of a sterile system in which God has no place, either as a Father in heaven or as the fountainhead of the natural rights of man that government must respect. He is the patron of every­thing planned, from "I.Q." to parent­hood and, if we permit him to continue, we will become a nation of "planners" without substance to the plan. Little wonder that innumerable children Icnow more about "Mickey Mouse" and "Har­old Teen" than they do about God, Him­self! 
Our Founding Fathers were men of deep religious conviction. Moreover, they had the courage of their convic­tion in the certainty that natural rights are God-given and are worth fighting for. They gave expression to such in the Declaration of Independence: 
". . . that all men are created eaual; that they are endowed by their Creator -with inalienahle riffhts" 
This doctrine was later incorporated in the Ordinance of 1787: 
THE FORGOHEN WORD 
By Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame 
"Eeligion, morality and knowledge being neces­sary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encoarased." 
The principle of democracy, therefore, demands the recognition of God, with accompanying basic morality. If Ameri­ca is strong from within, under God she can withstand any thrust from without. 
I still have faith in our country and in the American way of life. I have hope in the American people who, once aroused to danger, can act and act effec­tively. I have love for the American her­itage that the end of man is God, and that any system of government or edu­cation that does not accept God as the beginning and end of all human activi­ties is a violator of the natural law. 
Rights and Duties Are CorrelatiTes 
Accordingly, let all of us — Catholic, Protestant and Jew — resurrect the for­gotten word: DUTY! It has almost passed into oblivion in the overemphasis that has been placed on rights during the last two decades. 
Rights are fundamental; rights are sacred, and they must be preserved. But when we speak about rights let ns not forget duties. They are correlatives; they are intertwined. You can not have the one without the other, any more than you can have water without oxy­gen and hydrogen, or bread without flour and yeast. Right to "life," yes; but duty to God, Who made such life. Right to "liberty," yes; but duty to do what you ought, duty to respect the dignity of your fellowman because of the sa­credness of his personality. Right to the "pursuit of happiness," yes; but duty both to Church and civil authority, duty of patriotism, duty of sacrifice, duty of social justice, but a program that is both social and just. In a word, "inalienable rights," but also inalienable duties. 
Religion, Heart of Notre Dame Education 
By prayer and example let us restore DUTY to its rightful place in American life, so that the philosophy of hate so rampant in the world today wiU not take possession of our country. 
Another Notre Dame Night is closing. From without comes the voice of Sorin, beloved founder of the University, ask­ing if we have preserved his legacy. The answer is yes, so far as prayer and human ability permit. For religion is still the heart of Notre Dame's program of education — the very core of its curriculum. 
From Log Cabin to University City is a tremendous step, but under the Mother of God it has been accom­plished. Both the graduate and under­graduate divisions of the University are sound academically. Research work for the benefit of humanity goes forward in the first division, while training of the whole man is still emphasized in the second. Your troops, beloved founder, are seen daily at the Holy Table, some fifteen hundred strong, while perpetual adoration, visits to the Grotto, and fidel­ity to Holy Mass are the very life of the present generation of students. Modestly and quietly Notre Dame is doing her part for God and country, in accordance with your basic instruction of training young, men in not only how to make a Kving, but, what is more important, now and always, hoiv to live so as to die well. 


CHRISTIAN EDUCATION A BLESSING 
By the Most Rev. Samuel A. Striteh, D.D., Archbishop of Chicago 
Your gathering here this evening to do honor to my Sacred Ofiice suggests the thought of my address. Alunmi of Notre Dame University, you are the beneficiaries of endowments, measured not with the figures of the accountant but in terms 'of the lives which chris­tian charity has consecrated to God. 
Into your education there went not only the talents, the abilities, the labors and the prayers of your Faculty, there also went the hopes, the aspirations and the longings of countless Christian souls. 
Your education is not a mere x>ei'sonaI possession in the sense that you may use it only for personal advantage and com­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
fort. Emphatically it belongs to the Christian body, human society. Notre Dame was bom out of the resolve of noble men of God to fix Christian truth along with all other truth in the lives and institutions of men by training for society Christian leaders. Your responsi­bility is to reflect that Christian truth in your social attitudes and contacts. Over your University campus signifi­cantly there hangs your gilded dome, a symbol of Notre Dame's ideal, that life without Christ is ugly life, filled with the things which corrupt and ruin. When you took your parchments from the hands of your Alma Mater, you stepped into a world of men, where there were wrong things for you to make right, dangerous movements for you to oppose, noble undertakings for you to sponsor. As alumni of Notre Dame your success must come from the force and the reach of your enlightened Christian leadership. Yours is the task of making your world a better world, a Christian world. 
No Time For Faint-hearted Leadership 
This is not the time for faint-hearted leadership. However much our attention is fixed by the events of the day on the impotency of other leaders of men, brave Christian leaders are concerned more with discovering how to bring about a better day. It is undeniable that much in the world needs righting, that barnacles must be washed from many of our institutions, that in the labora­tory of life unsound principles must be laid bare, that clear heads must replace muddled heads. It is a day of opportun­ity for the Christian leader, young and courageous in the strength of truth. We do not need leaders who will try to make an appeasement with the injus­tices and the false philosophies of the time, who will compromise right with wrong, truth with falsehood. True it is that injustice and ugly materialism are entrenched behind great armaments and sponsored by great institutions of learn­ing. All this matters not. Truth is 
strength and the Christian leader unfolds the banner of truth. 
What is the radical trouble with our world? Let Pope Pius XII give the an­swer: "The Gospel tells us that when Christ Our Lord was nailed to the Cross there was darkness over all the face of the earth. It was a. mournful parable of what has happened before now and con­tinually happens when men lose their faith in religion. A great darkness falls on them: and in their blind self-confi­dence they banish their Divine Redeem­er and make Him an outlaw from their daily lives and still more from the life of the community. They weaken their sense not only of belief in Christ but of belief in God. The result is that all the rules and canons, by which private and public life has been regulated, fall into disuse. The cries and maxims of laicism 
become the basis of all civil relations. . . . This goes so far that the individual citizen, the life of the family and the commonwealth as a whole are removed from the kindly wholesome influence of God and of His Church. Then day by day the symbols and the symptoms of those errors which corrupted the heath­ens of old, declare themselves more plainly and more lamentably. And all this in parts of the world where the light of Christian civilization has shone for centuries: "Darkness came on when they nailed Jesus to the Cross." 
Your work is to labor mightily, in­cessantly, without compromise in bring­ing Christ back into the life of the world. How can there be salvation with­out a Savior? There is only one Savior given to man, Christ Jesus, Our Lord. When the world returns to Him, the freedoms of man will be secure, neigh­borly intercourse among the nations will be inspired by justice and charity, hu­man solidarity will banish all thoughts of class-strife, with enthusiasm men will make new significant achievements in science and art, a meaning will be given to life itself. It is true that Christ came 
to give us life everlasting and it is also true that when men in humility and ear­nestness accept His Gospel, they Irafld their fairest social stmctnies. To bring Christ into the life of the woiid, as the inspiration of private and public life, this is your work, your responsibility. 
Do Not Yidd to Wliat Is Wn»K 
And all this yon will'do if each of you in his own sphere is boldly and cour­ageously an enlightened Christian lead­er. It does not matter if your poation in society is humble. The tragedy would be if you were to yield to compromise with what is wrong and not christian. In the Consecration of a Bishop, the pas­tor of the flock, the Church prays: "May he never call good evfl or evil good." Opportunely we nmy say this same prayer over yon today. Onr fear is not that Christian truth will fail but that the enlightened courage of Christian lay leaders may fail. To us and to Notre Dame you owe it to be in this day of opportunity fearless, courageous Chris­tian men who will not make friends with error or give sympathy to wicked­ness in their unceasing effort to bring the erring to truth and the wicked to righteousness. Yours is the task of dis­sipating the darkness which hangs over the world and letting shine on it the bright sun of truth which is Christ. 

THREE LOYALTIES OF NOTRE DAME MEN 
By the Honorable Frank Walker, Postmaster General of the United States 
Through this program, Notre Dame alumni everywhere — and they are everywhere — through the United States, in the Far East, the South Amer­ican cfountries and in the tragic spots of war-torn Europe, all — and I, on be­half of all, express to the President and Faculty of Notre Dame and to its stu­dent body, our unchanging faith in the sublime, intellectual and spiritual mis­sion, which for a century, has brilliantly distinguished our University. 
"The World Today U a Sorry Sight" 
Tonight, we are fortunate, to draw fresh inspiration and courage from that deep, yet sparkling. Christian culture that streams through the soul of Notre Dame. 
It has been contended that there are in the world only two ultimate, order­ing forces — the sword and the mind, the North and South poles of activity, the pivots upon which every movement must turn. 
The world today is 'a sorry si^t.' All the decent, noble, values and virtues that seemed, only yesterday, vital to civilization, lie now shattered in the dust of defeat and torn by the triumph of a mechanized force. Nation after nation of liberty-loving. God-fearing people have witnessed the corruption of their freedom and the desecration of their sacred altars and sacramental life. For each one who has died on the battie­field, hundreds have died in their hearts, in their homes, on the streets and on the hillsides. In the pretence of 'peace' and 'stable social order,' fam-. ilies are being broken, wives separ­ated from husbands, children kidnapped from their parents and routined, whOe yet innocent, to act as the small parts of a State machine. These chfldren are constrained to recognize no human par­ents, to acknowledge no brother nor sister — but only to move as senselees automatons in a sonlless, automatic State. The State is their father and their mother — their schoolmaster — their 
(Continncd on Page 21) 


110 Paintings Hung In Dining Hall 
Church Dignitaries and Dis­tinguished Laymen Included. 
A dining hall innovation — the hang­ging of 110 oil paintings — awaited the students returning from the Easter va­cation. The paintings, 56 of which are in the west dining hall and 54 in the east, are portraits of early American bishops and archbishops, cardinals, popes and distinguished laymen. 
Paul E. Byrne, University librarian, originated the art project, and the Eev. John Bednar, C.S.C, directed its accom­plishment. When the Kev. John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the Uni­versity, gave permission for the project he remarked that paintings were meant to be exhibited where they could be seen and associated with life. 
The paintings of bishops filled this capacity formerly when they were a part of the Bishops' Memorial on the upper floors of the Main Building. This me­morial was a collection of portraits, vest­ments, mitres, crosses, rings and other articles associated with the history of the early American bishops. This material, along with 400,000 letters and docu­ments, was collected by Prof, James F. Edwards, University librarian from 1879 to 1911. 
In 1917 the paintings were put in stor­age in the present library and were later moved to the tower of the Law Building for further storage. The paintings of foreign bishops and cardinals, and those of popes, were obtained through do­nations. 
Most representative painter is Luigi Gregori, who did the frescoes in Sacred Heart Church, the interior of the dome, the Columbus murals in the Main Build­ing and the other paintings and murals about the campus. Many of the portraits, however, are by Gregori's pupil, Paul Wood, whose picture depicting Father Corby giving absolution at the Battle of Gettysburg hangs in the Wightman Art Galleiy, Notre Dame. 
The problem of adapting pictures and frames to the dining hall walls has not yet been completely solved. The final collection in the halls will be of bishops only, and the frames will be painted black to harmonize u-ith the walnut woodwork. 
Further plans under consideration for decorating the halls consist in the hang­ing of flags and draperies to introduce new texture and color to the halls. The flags would represent all the states and the foreign countries represented here by students. The draperies would be hung in three alcoves of each dining hall and would help greatly in absorbing the noise prevalent at meal time.—John A. Lynch in the "Scholastic." 

 Spotlight Alumni... 
Thirty-five oil paintings by Eugene 

W. Oberst, '24, assistant football coach at John Carroll University, Cleveland, were recently exhibited in the John Car­roll administration building. 
Gene has painted some 75 pictures over a i)eriod of 10 years, says TJie Catholic Universe Bulletin, of Cleveland, in a story about the exhibition. His first work was of Knute Rockne, his Notre 
Eugene W. Oberst, '24 

Dame coach in football and track, and he followed that with a variety of sub­jects of many sizes. His picture of Rock is now owned by Thomas A. Conley, '35, athletic director and head football coach at John Carroll. A large canvas, "Mary Magdalene Washing the Feet of Jesus," won the particular praise of the Phila­delphia Institute of Fine Arts. 
"Kaintuck" is one of the best-remem­bered students of the early '20s. Tackle on the football teams of 1922 and 1923, he was also the outstanding college jav­elin thrower of his day, and his record javelin toss of 202 feet, seven inches, made in the Indiana state meet in 1924, is still a Notre Dame and a Cartier field record. But he is perhaps most fondly recalled, within Notre Dame circles, as the athletic director, coach and general idol of the Notre Dame minims of those days. The combination of the towering Oberst and the super-enthusiastic grade 
school boys is a Notre Dame tradition. 
A tjiiieal corner in the Dinine Hall after the hancinE ot 110 paintintra. 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 


BY JOSEPH S. PETRIIZ, '32

ATHLETICS 
TRACK Baby, take a bow! This is our admonition to William Pat­rick (T-Bone) Mahoney, 24-year-old baby of the Notre Dame coaching staff, who in this, his first year of tutoring, picked off the Drake relays champion­ship for the Irish. 
Bill is the first to admit that his own Svengali, the late John P. Nicholson, left him comfortably supplied with stars, but Mahoney has demonstrated conclu­sively that he knows how to administer his heritage. Had "Nick" left a few more lithe young gents vrith springs in their legs, the Irish might well have defeated Michigan in the opening outdoor dual meet of the year. The Wolverines out-manned Notre Dame, but Notre Dame put up a gallant battle, losing, 74% to 56'/4. 
It is possible to grab such a title as the Drake relays championship with' a handful of stars. It takes lots of men to win dual meets, lots of good men to win dual meets from Michigan. The Drake title is unoflScial, since there is no team championship at the DesMoines carnival, and each event is regarded as a championship item in itself. But Bert McGrane of the Des Moines Register, who has been covering collegiate sports for many a year, annually figures the points for various teams, using a 5-3-2-1 basis. And on his reckoning, Notre Dame was first %vith 26^/4 points. Michigan was second with a robust 21%, and Texas third with 21. The Irish amassed their total without the help of Jim Delaney, sophomore shot put artist, who took the Penn relays title at 50 feet 8% inches, exactly % inch better than Archie Har­ris of Indiana. Delaney's toss would have made him second to Al Blozis of George­town, the Drake champion, and thus would have swelled the Notre Dame total at Des Moines. 
Biggest kick of the meet came when Ray Roy turned on his powerful sprint on the anchor leg of the mile relay to finish in approximately 47.5 seconds, to overhaul Ohio State, Louisiana State, and Michigan anchor men, to give Notre Dame its relay championship, and to hang up a new all-time Notre Dame record of 3:15.9 for the event. Gene Fehlig, Dick Tupta, George Schiewe, and Roy formed the.quartet which broke the former record of 3:17.5 established by Coach Mahoney himself, John Francis, Joe Halpin, and Pete Sheehan in the 1938 state meet. Michigan, which fin­ished fourth, was -disqualified, but the Wolverines came back to set a Cartier field mark of 3:17 in the dual meet the following week. 
Oliver Hunter, Erie, Pa., soph who seems to be treading in the footsteps of Greg Rice, won the two-mile on Friday in 9:24.7 and Keith O'Rourke tied for first in the high jump at 6 feet 4% inches. Greg Rice, '39, won an exhibition mile and a half race from John Mnnski in 6:41.1, nipping the Missourian at the tape. 
The Irish managed a second in the four-mile relay, a second in the distance medley relay, and a fourth in the 440­yard relay. 
It took the national co-champion, Don Canham of Michigan, to give O'Rourke his first collegiate defeat in the dual meet. The height was only 6 feet 3% inches, but it was made with a wobbly, wind-blown bar. Hunter, who is far from his full maturity as a runner, could not come back from his t^vo-mile victory and his relay races at Drake to do much against ths Wolverines, and he got two third places. 
Delaney captured the shot put with a throw of 50 feet 5% inches. New to the discus throw," he nevertheless grabbed first place at 140 feet 5% inches, which is'nt a bad debut for a spohomore. It was nearly three ^feet better than the first intercollegiate toss of Bud Faymonville, who holds the all-time Notre Dame record. 
Bill Dillon, another soph flash, who came up from fourth place to lead the field in the highs, only to spill when he hit a hurdle, roared back for a nice •win in 24.1 in the 220-yard lows. 
Roy, the Old Dependable of the '41 squad, conquered Jack Leutritz and War­ren Breidenbach of Michigan •with a 49.2 quarter, good time in view of the stiff wind the lads had to fight all the way down the back stretch. 
Frank Conforti, Bronx sophomore, turned-in his best time in the mile run, a 4:19 effort, to defeat Herb Leake of Michigan comfortably. 
Ezra Smith and Jack Wietoff tied with two Wolverines for first in the pole vault at 12 feet 6 inches. They, like the high jumpers, were handicapped by a flutter­ing bar. Smith was bothered to such an extent that he knocked himself out on one vault, but tried again after he had recovered his breath. 
So much for the •winners and co-win­ners. We'd like to single out especially Frank Sheets, a blond little bundle of energy whom we've designated before as the hardest working lad on the squad. He took second in the 100, second in the 220, and second by half an inch in the broad jump to collect nine points, only one less than Ddaney got for his double •victory. 
On behalf of the mile team, whicb took a good lacing from Michigan, we'd just like to mention that Conforti had run a 4:19 mile, Roy had done a 49.2 quarter, George Schiewe had taken third in the quuarter ahead of Breidenbach, and Gene Fehlig had run in the 220. Michigan had Barnard and Thomas fresh, TJfer with nothing more than a 220 under his belt, and Breidenbach, who had run fourth in the quarter. 
The rest of the schedule calls for meets 

•with Michigan State, Marquette, and Wisconsin, the Indiana State meet in which Notre Dame will defend its 1940 title, the Central Collegiate conference meet, in which the Irish must be rated among the favorites; and the N.C.A.A. meet in which Notre Dame should have its largest representation in many years. 
• 

BASEBALL 
Each year there is much to-do about the lack of a southern training trip for the Notre Dame baseball team, and each year the Irish get off to a good start. But it is this department's feeling that if Coach Jake Kline were allowed the extra days that most schools get down south, Notre Dame would have better balance and would avoid those mid-sea­son slumps. . 
Following the pattern of the past three or four years, the Irish opened with a 3-all tie with Purdue in ten innings, then beat Chicago, 17 to 10. After Subby Nomcki had lost a 3 to 0 decision to Iowa, pitching shoutout ball after, the first inning. Bob Fischer came back for a 4 to 2 victory in the nightcap. 
Then Notre Dame ran up against the best Wesitem State (Kalamazoo)-club in many years, possibly in history, and dropped two games, 11 to 2, and 9 to 3. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Broncos were still undefeated as 
this was written. 
Lack of balance showed in the North­

western series that followed, the Wild­
cats taking the first game, 6 to 5, and the 
return game> 5 to 1. In the former, 
Notre Dame made 17 hits to eight, but 
had 15 men left on bases. In the latter, 
Notre Dame made seven hits to six, but 
had ten men stranded. There are five 
regulars hitting over .300, but that state­
ment requires qualification. One of the 
reg^ars is Bemie Crimmins, ace catcher, 
who has missed three games out of the 
first nine because of spring football 
drills. 
Another is Jack Tallett, who is regu­lar largely because Chuck Farrell, senior first baseman, collected a concussion in breaking up a double play against West-em State. Farrell will go back into ac­tion shortly, and Tallett may move to right field. But, with both Crimmins and Farrell out, Notre Dame has but three .300 hitters in the lineup. 
Capt. Andy Chlebeck, who boasts a perfect fielding mark for nine games in center field, has gathered 20 safe blows in 38 trips for a rousing .526 average. On base 24 times he has scored only nine runs — and he is the leadoff man. 
Tallett, who made his debut TOth 3­for-4 against Western State, had 5-for-13 after three games, giving him a .386 mark. Bay Pinelli has a .353 average, Bemie Crimmins weighs in a .348, and Farrell's mark is .308. Joe Campagna, scrappy soph third baseman, raised his mark to .263 with three blows against the Wildcats. Tom Callahan, left fielder who can really go get 'em, had only t\vo hits in his first 26 appearances, but he seems to be breaking his slump of late. He has risen from .077 to .122. Ed Hengel, right fielder, has climbed from .067 to .211 lately, and Nowicki has pulled his aver­age from .063 to .182. It is our opinion that a chance to sharpen batting eyes in the Southland might have all of these swingers hitting very close to .300. Just two or three well-placed hits would have won both games with Northwestern and the first game with Iowa. 
Bill Stewart, Jr., who has had a few shots at the right field post, has a .231 mark as of this writing. George Sobek, out of action for the first seven games, checked in with a .222 mark for two ap­pearances. Mike Kelly, Crimmins' alter­nate behind the plate, has the same. Fred Gor^ hustling second sacker who held forth while Sobek's knee mended again, hit .143, but he turned in some sparkling fielding plays. Chuck Crimmins, who opened the season at shortstop, has a .136 average. 
The tenth game, with Purdue, was rained out. On Wednesday, May 7, the lads came out of their slump to give Michigan State an emphatic, 14-6, trim­ming at Notre Dame. There was to be a return game at Lansing, Mich., on May 
10. The remaining games of the season are scheduled at home. 
GOLF 
Perhaps Coach Walter M. Langford of the fencing and tennis teams will feel that his undefeated racquet swingers should be biUed ahead of the golf team. We doubt it, though, for Coach Lang­ford realizes that his lads have not been put to a severe test at this writing. And we believe he agrees that any Notre Dame team that can best Michigan in any sport deserves prominent mention. He will agree, we're sure, after his lads play the powerful Wolverines May 14. If they win, we promise them plenty of ink. 
Not only did the Eev. George L. Hol­derith's golfers defeat Michigan, but in so doing, they staged what we believe is the greatest rally in Notre Dame's 12­year golfing history. If Moller, Redmond, O'Shea, either of the Beaupres or any who followed them want to argue the point, they can take over this space next montii. We don't recall, however, that the Irish were ever behind, 11 to 4, and. won, getting 10 out of the last 12 points possible. That's what happened against Michigan. 
Not only that — but the dajr's scoring was the best we remember, and we have been here for every home match. There were two 69s, three 70s, and two par 71s during the day. Five of these par or sub-par rounds came from the woods and blades of the Irish. Ben Smith, Michigan sophomore (dam it), shot a 69 against Gene Fehlig's 70 to win 2% out of 3 points. Gene's par 71 and John Conry's 72 in the morning were good enough for 1 ^ points against Smith's 73 and his partner's 77. 
Bill Fisher of the Irish collected a 69 in the morning, and got 1% points for his trouble. John Barr of Michigan had par 71 in the same best ball round. The real fireworks came in the afternoon after Michigan had won the doubles, 6 3, and the first two singles, 5 to 1. Capt. Sammy Neild birdied the 18th for a 2 to 1 victory. John Conry, who invariably halves the first nine and then wins the back side about 4 up and 3 to go, col­lected 2% points. Billy Wilson, even on the front nine with a 35, one under par, came in in perfect figures for a 70 and • 2% more points. 
Jack Harrigan, Los Angeles sopho­more, 6 up at the end of nine, and vic­tor for 18 holes, 8 up and 7 to go, was even with John Leidy of Michigan throngfa eight holes of the home nine. The match hung on the last hole. If Lddy won, Michigan won the match. If Harring^n won, Notre Dame won the match. If they split it, the match was a tie Their drives were nearly 300 yards, and their approaches hit the green, Leidy's sliding over the back edge. His downhill return chip slid seven feet past the cup. Harrington's eight-foot, side-hill putt curled three inches below the cup and he got his par 4. Leidy then hit his putt, also a tricky side-hill attempt, while the season's largest gallery held its breath. The ball, well hit, rimmed the top edge and twisted to a stop t%vo inches away. Harrigan, out in 34, two under par, was one over coming in for the days's third 70 and fifth sub-par round. 
Notre Dame opened with a easy 19-8 victory over Purdue, and took Illi­nois, 15-12 before dropping a 15-12 de­cision to Wisconsin. Wilson, who had played only one round in several weeks after suffering an injury to a shoulder muscle, dropped three points in the Bad­ger match, shooting an 81. He more than proved his mettle a week later, however, with his 70 and his 2% precious points against Michigan. 
• TENNIS 
The stifFest tests, with Michigan and Northwestern still remain, but that doesn't stop us from crowing a bit about the undefeated record of a tennis team tbat is a cinch to have a winning sea­son, and is determined to be the best in Notre Dame history. The Irish won by 8-1 scores from Detroit, Western State, and Indiana, then took a 6-3 match from Kentucky. The victory over the Broncos was the first Notre Dame has ever scored (sue us if we're wrong) over Western State. It came very close to being a shut-out, with Dan Canale and Olen' Parks fighting off match point seven or eight times before yielding in the day's last doubles go. 
As this was written, Notre Dame found itself in the peculiar postion of reigning as favorites over Chicago, whom the Irish have never beaten. Matches remained with Michigan, winner of seven out of its first eight matches; BGchigan State, and Northwestern, which was undefeated as this was typed. 
The Irish have been playing in the following order: Dan Canale, Memphis, Tenn.; Capt. Jack Joyce, Spartanburg, 
S. C ; Olen Parks, Mishawaka, Ind.; George Biitner, Schenectady, N. Y.; John Garvey, Sharon, Pa.; John Walsh, Price, Utah; Norm Heckler, Blue Island, HI.; and Fred Doutel, Mishawaka, Ind. 
STUDENT NOTES 

TOP SCHOLARS Top flight senior rankings for 1941, announced by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, were gained by Balph Gerra, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Albert Del Zoppo, Niagara Falls, N. Y., and Felix Pogliano, Denver, Colo. Gerra, valedictorian, compUed a 95.19 per cent average. He is an accounting major in the College of Commerce and plans a career in law. Del Zoppo, of the College of Arts and Letters, a varsity basketball player, amassed a 95.02 per­centage and will deliver the class ora­tion at Commencement. Pogliano's aver­age is 94.77 per cent Editor of Scrip, the campus literary quarterly, a poet of note and the author of short plays, he was named class poet. He is also in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. • ORATORS ORATE William J. Hanford, C.S.C., Chicago, a.junior in Moreau Seminary, won first prize of $100 in the annual Goodrich-Cavanaugh oratorical contest held on the historic Washington hall stage. The prize money is from a fund set up by the late former Gov. James P. Goodrich, of Indiana, in honor of the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, former presi^ dent of Notre Dame. Second prize, $35, was captured by Robert W. Galvin, Evanston, Dl., fresh­man. John E. Walsh, C.S.C, Milwau­kee, Wis., a freshman in Holy Cross Sem­inary, was third place winner, receiving $15. Judges in the contest were Paul M. Butler, '27, and J. Clifford Potts, '25, South Bend attorneys, and Cecil E. Birder, '14, head of the department of speech, in the University. 
SENIOR BALL The Rockne Memorial was taken away from the Irish Friday evening. May 2, and turned over to the "Arabians." Amidst a distinctive Arabian setting, seniors and their fair guests promenaded at the Senior Ball. Press Agent Bill Hawes, Greenville, Pa., drew from the famed thousand and one Arabian nights to tell of elaborate decorations. Four "Punjabs," anyone of which might have stepped out of Little Orphan Annie's comic strip, served as doormen. Three tones of cloth—gold, pumpkin and rust— draped the walls. Colors of ancient Ara­bia, shaped into a huge tent, hung from the ceiling. Shields with scimitar and spear were placed about the walls. A canopy was erected at the entrance of the ballroom. 
By Robert Towner, '43 
Nationally famous Dick Jurgens and 
his orchestra played. Rounding out a 
grand week-end were a candlelight din­
ner in the Dining Halls before the Ball, 
the Philadelphia Symphony orchestra in 
the gfym following the dinner, and the 
Michigan-Notre Dame track meet and a 
tea dance at the South Bend Country 
Club, both on Saturday afternoon. 
• 
CONFRATERNITY NOTES 

Notre Dame students played a promi­nent role in the third annual R^ona l Catechetical Congress of the Confrater­nity of Christian Doctrine held at St. Mary's, April 25-27. Six hundred dele­gates of the Catholic universities and colleg^es gathered for the three-day con­ference. At the first general session Jerome O'Dowd, Fort Wayne, Ind., re­ported on confraternity activities since last year's meeting. Walter Brennan, New Rochelle, N. Y., presided at a meet­ing whose theme was "Discussion Club Demonstration and Institute." Speakers and their topics at this meeting included John Specht, Chicago, who spoke on the newly formed "Notre Dame Speakers Bureau," Gene Geissler, Chippewa Falls, Wis., on "Catholic Action Clubs," and John Hennessy, Louisville, Ky., on "Or­ganized Activity of the St. Vincent de Paul Society." 
Campus speakers dominated the con­cluding discussion on the distribution of Catholic literature. Gene Geissler pre­sided. The general history of the Notre Dame Student Commission for Decent Literature was outlined by Walter Bren­nan.Louis Kurtz, Des Moines, la., spoke of the distribution of literature to army camps. The free distribution of Catholic reading matter to public places was re­viewed by Thomas Carty, Yonkers, N. Y. Robert Nenno, Buffalo, N. Y., talked on the Notre Dame Vigilance Committee. 
• NATIONAL DEFENSE 
The Fighting Irish are nationally known on the gridirons of the nation. Now the Fighting Irish will take to the air. Organization of a United States navy student flying squadron at Notre Dame is under way, acording to an an­nouncement by Ensign B. W. Ripley, of the U. S. naval station, Miami, Fla. More than 50 students have been inter­viewed by an examining board, assisted by Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, pre­fect of discipline, and J. Arthur Haley, University public relations director. The local student unit will be known as the Fighting Irish squadron. Similar organi­zations are the Flying Boilermakers at Purdue University, the Hooaier sqoadran at Indiana University, and the Fiyiag Badgers at the nniversity of Wiseooain. 
'University students must shoalder their foil shiire of the national defense effort," Lieut. OoL Robinson Hitefaeod^ Indiana selective service director, UM a meeting of Notre Dame engineering sto­dents Aprfl 26. Lieut. Hitebcoek pointed out that after the end of the pzeaent school year, students who -were rois ­tered under the selective service' act 
' would bectane liable for military train­ing. 
• 

DEBATE RECORD The varsity debate squad, capturing 14 out of 19 debates, finished the season with a brilliant .736 average. Only one of Coach William J. Coyne's fine squad returns, William Hder, Faulkbni, S. Dak., a junior. Retiring are Hilton Wfl-Uuns, South Bold; John OliOUf^iliii, Bangor, Me., and Thomas Grady, FVumer City, BI. Grady, it should be noted, is a chemical engineer. Engineer-debaters do not happen along often. The "B " squad won eight out of ten debates. This squad lists Frederick Holl, Honesdale, Pa., and Thomas McGee, Brooklyn, N. Y., seniors; Mark lies. Riverside, HI., sophomore; and Edward Meagher, Seattle Wash., freshman. • ENGINEERS' PROGRAM Notre Dame engineering students took part in a sectional meeting of the Amer­ican Society of Mechanical Engineers in Detroit, Mich., April 14-15. John Naee, Brooklyn, N. Y., senior engineer, dis­cussed "The Need and Possibility of Par-' ticipation in Public Affairs by Engi­neers." Francis Sheets, Sugar Grove, Ohio, senior engineer and track star, acted as chairman of the convention at a morning session. Prof. C. Robert Egry served as honorary chairman of the Notre Dame g^roup. • PHILOSOPHERS DISPUTE The Schoolmen, student philosophical group, conducted their annual philosoplii-« cal disputation in Washington Hall on Aprfl 24. The thesis was, "Thomistic Personalism Is True Internationalism." Papers were read by five students: John MacCauley, New York City; Thomas Mc­Gee, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Cyril Garvey, Sharon, Pa.; George Meltzer, Chicago, and Thomas Hirschauer, Logansport, Ind. Presiding was Joseph Callahan^ Do­wag^ac, Mich., president of the School­men. Rev. John F. McCormick, SJ., head of the Department, of Phflosophy, Loyola University, Chicago, former president of the American Philosophical Assodatioh, spoke brieily at the close of the disputa­tion. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Chicago Banquet Highlights U. N. D. Night 
Clubs Everywhere Observe Eighteenth Annual Event; Archbishop, Father O'Donneii, Postmaster General, Frank Leahy, Glee Club top Excellent Chicago Program. 
By FRANKLYN E. DOAN. '29 

Secretary, Notre Dame Club of Chicago 
Your tale-bearer is too young to have seen Charlemagne throwing back the Saracens at Koncevanx, but he is told that quite a crowd was there to see the deed done. He is just old enough to have seen the Irish and Southern Cal at Sol­dier's Field in 1927, and he knows that the place was jam-packed. 
And he's too old to think that ever again, in his lifetime, ^vill there be an­othei: Universal Notre Dame Night like April 21, 1941. 
The Palmer House's grand ballroom was thronged from kitchen-doors to speakers' table. The viands that came from the kitchen had 800 Chicago alumni in a festive mood. The words and phrases, the tribute to Notre Dame, the presence of distinguished guests, that originated at the speakers' table had the same 800 wishing that the night would never end. 
It was the 18th annual observance of Universal Night. Chicago was honored in being named the focal point for Uni­versal Night observances everywhere. Bell-wethered by President George A. Brautigam and General Chairman John 
W. Dorgan, Notre Dame alumni from the Windy City and its environs turned out en masse. 
His Excellency Samuel A. Stritch, archbishop of Chicago, was there. He impressed, old Notre Damers with his dignity and humility, signed their pro­' grams fredy and left the impression 
that here was a real human being. 
Eev. J. Hugh O'Donneii, president of the University, was there. He spoke for familiar ears, shook familiar hands, aU through the evening. And the words he spoke virere familiar, because they indi­cated so clearly that when the "going is toughest, that's when the Irish like it best." 
Frank C. Walker was there. He had come out from Washington by plane. Many of the old boys who were on the campus with the present postmaster-general remarked that he looked much the same now as he did then. 
Frank Leahy was there, and Pat Man-ion was the quipping, bon-motting atten­tion-arresting toastmaster that he al­ways has been. And Notre Dame's g^reats from the local alumni fold were there. 
The radio program went off without a hitch. WENK aired it locally, dispersed it to the four winds through the Blue Netwo.rk's facilities. Father O'Donneii and Frank Walker gave strong, succinct talks that left no doubt as to where Notre Dame stands in the present emer­gency. Frank Leahy made it plain that, come hades or high H.,0, the Irish will be fielding a ball club next autumn. And His Excellency, the Archbishop, pleaded that in these times of storm and stress the ideals that Notre Dame has always stood for being carried forward. 
Came.the end of the radio program and a moment of relaxing. The Palmer House's deftly trained pantry-panzers streamed in with illuminated Bombe Nelusko and Sabayan Sauce. The head table and the rank-and-file fraternized and the tickets committee walked around with that Elsie look on their faces. Then Pat Manion introduced the Glee Club in a special presentation of "The Song of the Free" written by Felix Pogliano, '41, and directed by John White, '41. 

For 27 minutes, 800 people sat spell­bound. The Glee Club sang and the brass orchestra blared and the piano was made to dipsy-doodle all over the place. And through it all John White narrated a moving, graphic, fiery story of American music. It brought the house down. There have been college glee clubs, but. . . . 
Thus, Universal Notre Dame Night. Time and circumstances will not con­spire to make an event like this for many 
. 'n 
—Chicaso TSmes Photo 

Rer. J. Bach CDomiell, C.S.C.. 'IC, praiident af tke UainnilT, and Moat Ber. Sannd A. Stritdi, . 
D.D.. archUAop of Chicago, at tke Cnirrfaal Natre Daaw Nickt kanqaet in CUeaso. 
months to come, but the Chicago Club was happy to have had the opportunity, satisfied that it turned out so well. Brau­tigam and Dorgan, and their able help­
ing the reception the Chicago alumni had a reserved section in the Columbia System's studios in the Wrigley Building. The handball tournament occupied the 
—New World Photo 

Seated at the head table at the Chicaso Clab banquet were Postmaster General Frank C. Walker. *09; Federal Jndce Philip Snllivan; Brron V. Kanaley. '04, chairman of the Board or Lay Tnutees; aad 
Frank Leahy, '31. director of athletics. . 
ers — Eddie Gould, Frank McAdams, Jim Brennan, Joe Henneberry, Bill Steinkemper, and Bill Murphy — can wear feathers in their hats and they won't have to go to Sherwood Forest to do it. 
The Saturday following Universal Night Father Leo E. Ward, C.S.C, was in town to talk on Prof. John Frederick's weekly book broadcast. Many of the Chi­cago alumni were on hand at John Tully's Thomas More Library in the Loop to welcome Father Ward. Follow-

ALUMNI CLUBS 
AKRON Glenn Smith. '27, 2022 First Central Tower, President; Robert J. Kolb. ex. *34, 90 E. AliU St.. SecreUry. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night the Akron Alumni Club had a fine meeting and election of officers for the comine year. We gathered around the radio to listen to our local programs, with John Moir as the speaker, and then the national program. 
The business was presided over by Joe Wozniak. tho retiring president. The new ofticers elected are: Glen Smith, president; Frank Steel, vice-president: Al Hilkert. treasurer; R. J. Kolb. sec­retary. 
larger part of March and most of April before the champions staggered in. Al Culver won the singles crown, having defeated ex-champ Ed Melchione in the finals, and William J. (Blimp) McCar­thy huffed and puffed his way into third place. Culver paired with Tom Grady to gather in the doubles title, John Dorgan 
and Melchione falling victims. Greg Kelly and Jerry CliflTord racked up the third-place medals. The tournament was under the supervision of Chairman Dick Nash. 
The new officers will meet within a short tTme to appoint the scholarship committee. Many new activities are planned by the new president. 
R. J. Kolb. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Midusan) 
Philip C. Ludsmmn, "29. 112 Lake SL, Bnchanan, Pretiilent; Maurice A. Wcfccr* ex. '25. Pe<mks SUte Bank BU*.. S t Joseph, Secretary. 
The Berrien County Club obser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Night at a dinner at Water's Farm near Niles. The attendance was almost double that of the last meeting on Feb. 24. We. of course, had the broadcast as the main feature of the evening; and, in addition, were entertained with tales by Charles Pears^ from Buchanan,- an old student of 1887-S8, who gave tis recollections of our former president. Rev. Tfiomas G. - Walsh. and of Father James 0nms with his interest in baseball. -' ' 
The members present were praetieallr all of the old fiuthfol that have been on the rolls of the chib feun the beginning: Jalni Mtim, KtaBtfli GcMfMann, AOea Jahiuon, Geane KeOer.-Tbn Fancn, Geae GiatliwaU. Mr. HCDMUU. Ckaiiea Pears, WffiiaM Dmmey. Jodge Mafcafan Hatfldi. John JamA, Pidl Landsman, Sheridan Cask and Manrice Weber. 
Haarice Weber. 
BOSTON 
Charles M. GaUaglier, '38. 588 Aiasu St, 
East Miltea. Mass.. PresUeat; Jsha H. 
Xarphy. "32. 718 Adams SU DordMiter. 
-Maas., Secretary. 
In celebration of TTniversal Notre.Dame Night, the clab members were .the guests of PanI :Bra4­cridc, '26. He is' one of the Boston ofFidals of Paramount films./F^ol arrainged thenaeof a studio, and presented, an. entire program- of. foot­ball pictures which included shots^ of all the init­standing games of the' eorrent year: -Hie feature of the evening was a j^cture portrayiAS the rise of the Notre Dame style of play^ one of the few sound pictures ever made with "Rock" givinsr his own description of the basie principles upon iHiidi that system was developed. Unfortunately we were unable to get the broadcast from Chicago, because of previous ooinniitments,.no local station carried 
. The last two meetings saw many new face* in attendance. Jahii J. Casaidy. *30, has. reoentbr been transferred from Buffalo to the Boston of­fice of the American laundry Machinery Com­pany. Jahn R. Hctfert. '28. is also a recent trans­fer to Boston. John is with the WHI and Baumer Candle .Company, Pat Cahes. '27, is still at.Taim­ton High, Cbet McDaaald, '27, and Gee'rge Marl-arty. '36, came down from Marbldiead. Chet is an' attorn^ with the Century Indemnity Cotnpany while George is continiung to produce excellently coached teams at Marblehead High' SchooL Jim Etherfngtaa. '30. is a dentist in Winthropi. 'Jim Roy.' '29, a speech instructor in my day, a Breen Medalist and national oratorical champ. Is in the district attorney's ofRce, Essex Gmmty. Dkk Dunn, *18, is 'rice-president and head of the claim division of the Lumberman's Mutual Casual^ Co. Jae Gknncm, '34, was on'^hand to bid a conditional farewell. Joe is a salesnsan with Commercial Sc^ vent, and may soon be transferred to California. California's gain will be our loss. Jalu E. Kdfar. Jr.. *37, is home from Meridian, BCss., where he is a teacher-coach. Larry Hemey. Sr., was on hand to .represent the family. Larry.-.Jr.. is a member of the dass of '43. • 
It is antiripated that the next gathering will be some' time in May and will take the form of a testimonial to Frank Leahy. Plans are. also under way for a week-end retreat at Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminary at North Easton. 
The files now being used in the work of dab correspondence are not, we know, all-incIusiTe.'A card-addressed to the club secretary win assure all of ample notice of coming meetings. -
Jalm H. Marpfcy. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
LMIS a Marphy, '33, 2357 Livingstaa Av e COIBBAU, President; Daa! F. Caaaba, '31. 8 E. Bread St . Colaaibaa, Secretary-
Say Eirfcralaah^ president of the Ahnnni Asso­ciation, was ' one. of the speakers when.' with a large turn-out of members and guests, his home club observed' Univiersal' Notre Dame'Nijdit at the Old Timers* Club in Colambus. Club President Bad Bbrphy was toastmaster. Dan Cannon was elected secretary of the clab. 

Other speakers were Colonel BaUin, boNing commissioner of Columbus, Bud Sweeney, local sxrarts commentator and announcer. Senator Jerry Kilbaine* former fly-weight champion, and Jack Cannoiu Father Stone said a prayer for all Notre Dame alumni who are participating in the Euro­pean conflict. 
Notre Dame men who attended the highly suc­cessful event were listed by Secretary Dan Cannon as follows: 
Jerry Besancenjiy, William T. Brcsnahan. Jack Cannon, Dan Cannon, E. G. Cantwell, Richard P. Dcvine, T. B. Devine, Dr. Qninn Dorgan, Paul S. Doatiiitt, Dr. J. ML Dnnn, Ray J. Eichenlanb, Dr, James Flanir*n, John Fontana, Bob Fortune, Frank Fox, John Geddes, Dcm BL Hamilton, Dr. 
J. J. Hacltes, Tom Hogfaes, Ted Kramer, Vincent Lavdle, Ber. H. E. Hattingly, E. A. Moriarty, 
h. C Harphy, Harry P. Nester, Ed Power. Dick Rodenfeli, Joeepk E. Ryan, William Seidensticker, Tliomas J. Shedian, Alfred Varley, John A. Var­ley, Frank Vocel, C. B. Wilhclmy, Jim Wood and F. N. Zieiler. 
CINCINNATI jMCph p. Kinneaiy, '28, 1717 Femwood Art*, President; Frank I. Broeman, ex. *35, 3645 Bliddkton Ave., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati celebrated Universal N.D. Night at the Maketewah Country Club. Twenty-five members were present, among them Jade Cariies, a newcomer to the city and the club. Conspicuously absent was footballer Joe Thesing, who married Miss Margaret Kous­man on April 19. After several hours of bowling, conversation, and good fellowship the boys were well prepared for a lavish buffet supper fit for any Epicurean. 
*rhe following members were present: Anderson, Bcaapree, Bonkamp, Broeman, Games, Carr, Castel-Uni, Crumley, Dixon, Gohman, Goetle, Hughes, Fan] Janscn, Larry Janszen, Joe Einneary, Bill Ein­neary. Maxwell, HcMahon, Morrissey, Morrison, PeUman, Shiels, Fred Sullivan, Jerry Sullivan, and Sweeney. 
Frank Broeman. 

CLEVELAND Jerome G. Bady, '30, 17109 Detroit Ave.. Lakewood, Ohio, President; Dr. Myron E. Crawford. '32, Detroit-Cook BIdg., Lake­wood, Secretary. 
Dear Collint, HiUer, Lyons, Sdiriner, Bringman, Dmbbi,' Doyle, Hadcnum and all you other selectees from Cleveland: 
Well, here's what happened last night at our Universal Notre Dame Night. We were at Bohr's for dinner. Tom Byrne, chairman of the event, called on Rt. Rev. Msgr. Charles A. Martin (thaVs who married Uarg and Jack,) and he led with grace. So, we ate (Rohr really outdid any previous effort) and then Byrne introduced all the officers and governors — we all cried a little when told that Collins and Hackman were pri­vates instead. Jerry Reidy took over and pre­sented awards of merit (very nice scrolls) to our local clergy with Notre Dame backgrounds. Rt. Rev. Usgr. Haariee Griffin. Charles Martin, Doc­tor William Scenes, and Revs. James Moran, 
Bernard Blatt, and Edward Seward accepted the awards. Similar honors had been pr^ared for Fathers Hfflrfiarl Moriarity and Paul HalUnan, who were unable to attend, and for the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Giftert Jennings, whose very recent death cast a pall over the presentations. 
Wall. Jack, Jerry Body said something about some "complicated affairs" of Doc Scollen's, and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.a, reffistnr off the UnWcnity, and JerMM G. BcMy. president of the Notre Dame Clab of Cleveland, look delightedty • • as St. Ber. Bfsvr. Hanrke F. GrUHn. 'M, LL.D. '22, is presented with an "award of meri^* on Universal NaCre Dante Night. 
seeing you're an old Holy Namer, you m.ust let Kosak, Jadt McGrath and myself. I hope the in­
me in on what you know when you return. Tou coming president will listen to my suggestion for 
remember anything, Ben Lyons? I really think the promoters of the next Rodcne Memorial event 
that the highlight of the evening was Jerry's — that's Gerry Miller and Jack Flynn. 
reading of the letters. Jack. Johnny, Howie, Jin, 
and Bob wrote back to we who have remained Yoa fdlows all remember Ed Schroetor, '40 — behind, and, believe me, Jerry and lots of others well, he's being married June 14 to Miss Patrida feel they're not so far behind — maybe a coupla Kane at Gesu Church. months. 
The Communion Breakfast this year was a suc­cess. Pat Canny brought Adam Walsh down from You fellows will all remember Father Jai Bowdoin, reported. 
Connerton, C.S.C., — well, he's the new registrar  and a good attendance was 
Everyone enjoyed Adam's talk. 
at school, and he came up to speak to as, and cUd 
a grand job. All you guys should remember The Easter Dance was definitely not just one of Father — he's the big Gregorian Chant man, those affairs. It was just as much a financial and and while none of you could ever carry & note terpsichorean success, but oh, that buffet supper! 
(yes, yon too, Doyle), yon must know Notre Dan O'Brien is a real gourmet, and he sure made Dame has a Moreau Choir that has no equal. 
trenchermen (as Penote would say) of all us guys Well, that's the guy, and he's a swell talker, too. 
and gals. 
Told us all about Notre Dame, present and fu­
ture, and we loved every word we heard. Of All I can say, fellows, is thanks for your let-course the Badin rowdies, Gavin, Krai and Gri­, ters; it was grand hearing from you again, and santi, tried to monopolize him — guess Larry I hope ycra're knowing we missed you is as big a was trying to get the school's views on pinball thrill to you. as hearing from you was to us. 
machines, what with reunion coming up so soon Good luck, and may God and Uncle Sam speed — but Shorty Kozak wandered up and said. 
you home. I'll tell our new secretary to remember "Hello, Father!" Father looked and said incredu­you often. 
lously, "Goodness, are you still alive?" and that Mike Crawford. 
broke up that session. 
DENVER 
There was another roonsignor there, a Monsig­nor John P. Treacy, who has a lot to do with 
Bart W. O'Hara, '32, 1325 Hadson St , Pres­

the local Propagation of the Faith, and he said ident; Eagene S. Blish, '34. 155« Oneida St . 
the closing grace. Seems as if he went to the Secretary. 
wrong schools or something — he received no 
scroll, but he says a very nice, grace. Just one mile above and 1,200 miles west of 
alumni CHQ. the Denver Notre Dame Club joined 
After that we all wished we were in Knox. its 25.000 brethren, April 21, at the mile-high Grant. .Quantico, Lewis, or Hayes because there Lakewood Country Club. We celebrated doubly: we were, 300 miles from Chicago, and no relay first. U.NJ). Night; last, the end of a year that over the local station — atop the Higbee Co.. — ranks with the three beat in the club's two 
and John Murphy was right at the dinner! Seems decades. Bart O'Hara was chairman this year. as if WHK had a previons committment to some breakfast cereal, but we got the broadcast Included in the 32 alumni present were two "canned" at 11:30 p.m., and thought the speakers headliners. Frather Frands P, GoodaU, C.S.C.. were fine. By then the evening had passed draft "Bengalese" editor and Blission Band director, age. but someone thought of some unfinished was the first Holy Cross priest, the old-timers say, business, so there was nothing to do but finish it to attend a Denver N.D. gathering. He was here 
— a task that fell to Conley, Oberst, Gaal^ Gavin. on the mission's business, and made a fine impres-Jack Flynn. Geny BGlIer, the John Penete. Fran rion in the parishes he visited. Gannon. Phil Prendetgast. Ed Googh. Shorty 
The second headliner was one of the school's oldest living alumni. Jerome HatUiews, *75, now 88 years of age. He never misses N.D. niglit, and is proud of tiie rise of Iiis school. 
Kvery time K.D. Night, and its thousand and 

one memories and similarly-numhered resolutions, 
shows on the calendar pad. this mountain-and­
plain sans tries to come up with somethins new. 
In *38 it came up with the first dinner dance 

and air programs from four stations. In '39, it 
came up with a record turn-out and expansion of 
the organization framework. In *40, it announced 
its scholarship and honored the heads of the city's 
schools and colleges. 
In *41, the boys hooked thumbs in vest and heard the official announcement of a Rockne Memorial trophy for the state's prep parochial grid champs, and of the formation of an employ­ment committee. 
Ihese new officers donned the dusty, work-stained robes handed over by the ones listed below them: Bart O'Hara, president; Loois Honffh, vice-president; Gene Blish, secretary; BUI Dick, treas­urer: Fred Giuhnrat, Jim Hanlon, Al O'Heara, board members; Charles Haskell, scholarship com­mittee; Bob Didc, lapsed members; Al O'Hean, meetings: Jack Shechan, Louis Housfa, dance; Ed HansfieM, publicity; Ed Owens, Catholic Ac­tion; Al Deads and Blansfield. "Varsity Flyer" train committee; John Homphteys, 1942 UJIJ). Night — and to be named, newspapermen's smoker, employment, and Rockne trophy chair­men. 
The ex's exitins: Charlie Haskell, Al Doads, Jack Sheehan, Ed Hansfield, Fred GoshuKt. Gene Blish, and John Humphreys (seven board mem­bers). 
Just to give the new staff somethins to shoot at, Bart read from the record the following head­lines from the 1940-41 collection: 
1940's U.NJ). Night at the Albany hoted, with wives and other best girls, plus local college pres­idents and the mayor. 1940's summer dance at the Broadmoor, to be duplicated June 6 this year — only bigger, of course. 1940's club scholarship winner, Arthur Andeisen, Jr. (now an honor man in engineering, we hear). 1940's new send-oS party for students. 1940's first (and now tradition­al, they voted) smoker for news and radio men of the city, men who have made the club the region's best known alumni group. 1940's scholarship-I>enefit preview of "Knute Eockne. All-American," that drew about 1,000 at midnight and helped keep Mr. Lloyd's office from dunning some future scholarshipee for Sorin space. (Incidentally, P!at O'Brien told a group of us last December on the coast that our use of his picture was the finest thins he had heard aboat. Vest buttons ping-cd oft the Biltmore's dark wood.) 1940's "Varsity Flyer," eighth special and first run west. It drew 225, used s Santa Fe streamliner and a II.P. special. 1940'a couple-dozen screenings of "High­lights of '39" for dubs, schools, and iust fans. 
Incidentally, that train ably handled by John Hnophreya and his eight-man train crew (Bob Dick, Blish, Fairall, Myers, O'Hara, Mansfield, Haskell, and Moynihan) brought our five-year pas­senger total to almost 1,600, our mileage total just short of 20.000 miles by eight trains. And it's going to get better, with the margin helping (Colorado boys to make N.D. 
Some of the gentlemen behind all this work have done a few things in the past few months beside work for the N.D. club, and next month, tho editor and PJI.G. Frank Walker willing, we'll recount a few deeds of derring-do. Personal pane­gyrics, with bold face names liberally sprinkled. Until then, the world's paperweight champion deadline dodger — Ed Mansfield. 
DAYTON 
Hw. R. L. Fcncdiac, az. >*«, lU WIsiaito 
Drin, PiMMnt; William L. Stiad:, *>«. 
TW'WinteiB Bank BUs,. Saaatarr. 

On April 21, the Notre Dame (Hub of Dayton had its annual meeting in celebration of Univer­sal Notre Dame Nisht. The election of officers for the coming year was held, Jadse H. L. Fer­neding being reelected president and WilBaai L. Struck, secretary and treasurer. 
The meeting was at the home of Jadse Femctf­ing, in a large room which he and his two sons, John and Tom Femedins, also alumni, built into a regular Notre Dame recr^tion room. Both John and Tom were home for the affair, on leave of absence from their studies in the officers train­ing school of the U. S. Navy. 
The radio program over the national hookup was listened to with great interest by all attend­ing. Refreshments were served and talks of old times were renewed. 
A fine attendance was had which included, in addition to those already mentioned: Andy Ajaaa, Eugene A. Mayl, James Ccdiins, Forster Halme, Walter Dickerson, William Cronin, Dr. Caiiaa Sawyer. Chester Kline, Hogii Wall, Jr.. Walter Banman, Edmund Shea, John Sallivaa, Rabcrt Stone, Paul Swift, and Sylvester Bams. 
Suggestion was made that plans be formulated for an old fashioned picnic this summer. William L. Stmck. 
DETROIT 
Jay L. Lee, '12, 1717 National Bank BHk.. President: Victor J. ScfcaeHner. "M. t n Federal BMs.. SecraUry. 

On March 31, the club observed the tenth an­niversary of Rock's death, BIB Dooley. of the Alumni Office, brought to Detroit films made by Rock, with his 1929 and 1930 teams. The Michigan Room of the Statler Hotel was filled by about 300, and Joe Shea, the hostelry's able sales man­ager, did splendidly by the club. 
Bert Maris, who coached track at N.D. when Rockne ^vas a student, put the spotlight on that phase of Rockne's career. Bad Boeringer, NJ). All-American of 1926-1927 vintage and now with Gus Dorais at the University of Detroit, gave his slants on Rockne from the players' angle. Ilien along came Honk Anderson. He really "laid 'em in the aisles" with stories of the Southern Cali­fornia trip in 1930. 
Bill Dooley brought the members up to date on campus activity and outlined the prospectus, in such form as is now discernible, for the Centen­nial next year. 
The show was a success from every angle. It had pace, timing and just enough of drama and humor blended to make the evening a worthwhile tribute to the man all of us have'admlred. 
Vie Sdiacffner. 

DES MOINES 
Lenihan L. Lally, '21. 1120 Malberrr St . President; William R. Bobiaon. '33. 4tii Floor, Iowa Bids., Secretary. 

The 21st annual club dinner for the track team was held at the Cabin of the Hotel Fort Des Moines on Saturday evening, April 26. after the close of the Drake Relays. Members of the team, coaching staff, alumni and friends were present. As usual, the highlight of the evening was the short talk to the boys by the Et. Rev. Gerald T. Bergan, bishop of Des Moines. 
The club presented a set of pamphlets selected by the Student (Commission on Decent Literature to Msgr. Boylan, president of Dowling 0>llege. We were very happy to have Jim Anutraas with us. Jim has been tryins to make this gatherins for the last four or five years, but uiitil this year, he has been unable to make it because of the press of business on the campus. Among thoae present from out of town were: Alex WHiaa, coach of the Loyola ((Siicaso) track team, Hanr StnhUreiier.jitof Wisconsin. Cart Hcslar. '40, a 
track star for several yean, and Gng Hca. ariM> / 
won a fecial mila and a half raea at the Talajl i' 
On Univeraal Notre Dame NI^M dab •iilm i /'. and faUieia of present stodaati salhered at fl» ' Cabin of the Hbtd Fort De* Hcinta.to BHaa ta ~ the broadcast and talk bom Notre Daiae. Aa i l our usual. custom, election of offiecia for 0» coming year was bdd after the hroadf aat. It e new cSieeia are: Lea Lally, prcsdent, Ifaial w Wsaiiilla, vice-president; and in ^t a ct tta projects of a year in the armed lonm. m Ksaiaaa. MU'etary-trcasurer* 
FORT WAYNE. INDIANA 
J. BadsT. IS. «M Frriit; Waailn J. DaWal«, IS. 

llie first noetomal adoration in the CkUMdral of the Immaealate Conception. Fbrt Wajnc was carried cm Holy IhirsdaT night and Good FMdar morning with the active participation of the Notia Dame Club, actins with numerous other local Catholic groups in an impressive activity. 
GOGEBIC RANGE Jiaeyh Safawii. Jr.. es; 11. StT Ave. N.. Harity. WISL. Pnilliit; 
K. Zin. If. 701 B. Ayer St. 
Mi^.. usu ataxy. 

The N. D. Club of the Gogdiie Ranos partook in the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Ni^t . Our dinner was attended by IS N. D. sradmrtaa. St. Mary's ipria and thdr guests. Notre Dame men attending included Jahn Blase, '32; Tfctar Lemmer, '26: Babert CCallasbaa. ex. 'IC; Jsasfk Raineri. ex. '31; Kabatt OTtaaiwII. ex. '2», and Geae Zinn. '40. 
The qieaker of the evening was H. O. Sonnesya. a countryman of Boekne's and a prodnet of 9 t Olaf CdOege in lOnneaota. lliraagji his talk tbe local alumni saw Notre Dame as others see it. 
Ilie second feature of the evening was a preasn­tation of a eerttSeate of synthetic memherddp in the local club to Deals O'Leaiy. praarfneat local man who has for years been interested ia the activities of the University. 
The remainder of the evening was siven oi«r to reminiscence of student days. 
Geaa Ziaa. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kmladr) 
Latfa J. HeBcaladk. ex. tT, Ghacae DislB­kiy, htrntntOt. PresUeat: Chaito C Horraw. '33. 2418 Valetta Bead. LadariBa. Secretary. 

The club celebrated Univeraal Notre Dame Ni^it with a hanquet and an evening of da.«T<.^g at Oilonial Gardens. Over 100 members, their wiraa and friends attended. The broadcast firam CUea­go was enjoyed ia an upper, private room of file Gardens. 
Gnest of honor at the banooet was the 19S8 Lsetare Medal winner, Louisville's Dr. Irria JMK, the nationally known sorgccn. 
The annual dection held imme£ately after flw broadcast resulted in the return to office tot Us second consecutive term of Lsais J. HMbaiath. Jr.. ex. '37. Other oSieers for the eoaing >sar are: first viee^resident, Shdisy Baaaia; aaeoad vie»president, Davii Baixd: aecretanr, ftaifca Haciaw; treasnrer, Unkm HeKetaaa. 
Final lesoHs of the club's BowBag Laagna found tiie St. Xdwaid's team on top. thm taaii. whoae members wet* Eauaet Ebwaa. Laaii HaBcalaik. Jr.. Plain Aagcnasiar and Saaa Stcasils^ was br one gaaw over thm lUuwaum teaai. Winner at the sinata tiiiiiiismsiil fbDosriag the regular aeasoa was Piirra Aagsimaicr. It e 
Ieas<» win bold a stag party Mar 10. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
plans are now being dravm up for the dub's annual summer outing, tentatively set for August. Chades G. Blorrow. 
HARRISBURG, PA. John J. McNeill, '33, 2220 Chestnut St^ President; Samuel R. Reed, '36, I3I6 N. Second St.. Secretary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Harrisburs club with a dinner meeting at the Hotel Harrisburger, with a fine turn-out of men. . . . Tom Conningham, '30, came over for the meeting, in uniform, being connected with the induction center, U. S. Army, New Cumberland, Pa. . . . Also Lient. John Lacey came from the air base at Middletown, Pa. . . . Among the others from outside Harrisburg -were Tom Car­fagno, '25, and Dr. James Qninn, '36. . . . The other men present were Bill Gorman, Harry Bres­tin. Walter Latz. Ed Smith. Sam Reed, John HcNein, Fnnk Bsrimsh, Charlie Short, and Bill Hoore, '26, who is now located here in Harrisburg with the U. S. Department of I^bor. . . . Joe Fnrrell dropped in for the start of the meeting but had to leave for a few hours to act as the (^airman of the Catholic Forum lecture given by Rev. £dmund Walsh of Georgetown. . . . And from reports afterwards it seems that there may be a spot on the Forum program for Joe next season, he did such a sw^ell job. . . . Joe dropped back later in the evening in time for the serious end of the bunness session. . . . 
The club has decided to hold quarterly meetings instead, of the current practice of monthly meet­ings due to the fact that the membership is large­ly made up of men who spend a great amount of time travelling. . . . Tom Carfagno is host for the next meeting in June at the ^nover Country Club, Abbotstown, Pa. . . . The officers elected for the coming year are John McNeill, president; Ed Smith, ^ce-president; Sam Beed, secretary; and Joe FarreB, treasurer. . . . The program came through over the air in fair shape, and the Chica­go Club and all that had a part in the program are to be complimented on the caliber of the progTun. .. . 
We missed some of our old stand-bys at the meeting, such as Bob Johnston, '33, ^vho is now the sole proprietor of his own chemical labora­tories and is doing fine. - . . Also Dr. Joe Rafter, who, I heard, was in town but had to go to Lancaster. Pa., to deliver an address. .. . Heard that Georre Horn, '36, has completed four months of his year, of army service to date. .. . Also Frank Barbiuh is on the fence and ready to go any day now; this being one of the few lotteries tiiat IVank claims he was ever a winner in. . . . The club also expresses the desire to have any men that are stationed at the army posts at Mid­dleton. Indiantown Gap. or at New Cumberland. Pa., get in touch with some member and drop around for our meetings. .. . 
John McNeiU. 
INDIANAPOUS Joseph H. Arms, '35, R. R. 14, Box 70-E, pRsident; WiOimra H. Konop, *28. Indiana Bdl Tdephone Co., 240 N. Meridian St, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the Indianapolis Athletic Club, with about 100 members and boost­ers of Notre Dame in attendance. 
After an excellent dinner President Gus Bondi reported upon the year's activities. He then called upon club treasurer, Pat Fisher, and club secre­tary. El Mabmey, as a member of the Scholar­ship Fund.Committee succeeding the ailing George BisAoff, to account for the vast sums separately held by them. The meeting was then turned over to its general cliaxrman, Robert Emmett KiHiy, who introduced Toastmaster Harry Sc»tt at un­kindly length, niat portly gentleman dismissed the general chairman and the Kirby Cathedral. under construction on North Meridian Street, with a single clause. After telling stories which he blamed on Frank Thomas of Alabama and Mai Elward of F^irdue. Harry introduced, with­out permitting to speak, several public officials present, including Attorney General Georve Beaan^ er. Sheriff Al Feeney, City Controller Jim Deeiy. City Councilman Leo Welcli, and Leroy foadi of the Board of Public Safety; also his partner in crimes \'arious and sundry, BUI Mooney. 
P. C Reilly, a lay trustee of the University, was granted a few moments. He spoke of the accomplishments of Notre Dame and of the modesty of the members of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He then urged all present to assist in keeping up the Universiti''s enroUment. which faces curtailment as a result of the present na­tional emergency. 
Our principal speaker, the Rev. Frank Cava­naagh, CS.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, though closely timed by the toastmaster. told a few humorous stories on himself, and pleaded, for less bitterness and more brotherly love as a preventative of internal dis­ruption threatened by current "all out aid" and "America First," and "Capital" and "Labor" factionalisms. His remarks were well received and he won himself a host of new frisids and admirers at the meeting. 
To prevent their reelection to office, this year's officers devised a nominating committee innova­tion which, with the exception of kicking Secre­tary El Mahoney upstairs to the ^ce-premdency. let the other officers escape its drag net. Honey­mooning Joe ArgDs was elected president. Bok Moynahan treasurer, and the writer, unfortunate­ly, secretary. 
The new vice-president, in the excusable ab­sence of his superior, announced the probability of a meeting in May at which our new Erector of athletics and head football coach. Frank Leahy* would be entertained. 
The usual informal get-together following the meeting lasted to a late hour. BiH Konop. 
KANSAS CITY (Mistouri-lUiiMft) 
John J. O'Connor, *34, 1600 St. Loafs Ave., Kansas City, Bio.. President; Noraua K. Bowes, '33, 5525 RoddtiB Road, Kaasaa City, Mo.,* Secretary. 
Several of our well known bowlers tried to maintain their averages this past winter on the local alleys. The ^ief complainants about the "splits and Brooklyns" are Jim Harray, Dave Crooks. BiU Mahoney. Jim Bray. Ed Dtdan, J«e Stewart, and Barney Qoitk. No three hundred games have at yet been reported. 
Don Elfier resigned his coaching job at' St. Ben­edict's College in order to take an athletic iiost at a Gary. Ir.d., lugb school. Hany Marr. until recently assistant to Al Gebert at Widiita Univer­sity, is now assistant at Boston College. 
The eminent Cleveland attorney. Pat CsMny, was in these parts briefly early in Blarch. Ceaige Smith has followed the expanding coffee bnaniess to New Orleans. Frank Toyne, now with one of the large steel firms near Chicago, was a recent visitor. 
The club extends sympathy to Dan Fidey <m the recent death of his father. 
Mr. and Mrs. James Higgins, '81, report the arrival of a daugbter sometime around the first of the year. 
Norm Bawes; 
LAPORTE, INDIANA JaaMs R. Bacan, ex. *37, cyo LaPorte HeraU-Aivu. President; EnMst LanaU, 'ST. 7«5 Maple Ave.. Secretary. 
With Professor Walter Lanf ford, coach of ten­nis and fencing, as chief speaker, the club ob­served Universal Notre Dame Night vrith a highly successful dinner. 
Ji a Bacon, club president, presided. Franklin Sir—d was toastmaster. Ten-year-^Id Bobby Christ, Midiigan Ci^, recent first prize winner on the Major Bowes program, sang delightfully. Rev. Frauds Shanley, chaplain of Holy Family Hospi­tal, La Porte, asked grace. 
. Al Smith, who with Jim Bacon, Ernie Lanois and Joe Qaartadi, worlced heroically to arrange the dinner, was delegated to draw up a resolu­tion honoring the memory of the late Frederic WiOiam Wile, noted journalist, who was bom in La Porte and did his first newspai>er work on "Ibe I*a Porte Herald-Argus." 
LOS ANGELES 
James R. BIcCaW,''22, 324 Pacafie Electric Bldg., Los Anyeles. President; Edward P. Cuminglum, '28. 1931 S. Grand Ave, Los Angrlfs, Calif.. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles was not lack­ing in attendance nor spirits in celebrating Uni­versal Notre Dame Night last Monday. About 150 of oar members sat down to an excellent chicken dinner at Eaton's Chicken House on famous Wil­shire Blvd.. in the CHty of the Angels. For toast­master we had the best, our own Hon. Joseph Scatt, LL.D., '15. There is none better! As our principal speaker we were fortunate to have the Hon. John M. Gostello, Hollywood's representa­tive in Congress. He has long been a friend of Notre Dame and judging from the reception and response he received, his talk was the finest Jim Conzelman entertained in his best style. 
J. Farrell BlacDonald. portrayer of Rockne in "The Spirit of Notre Dame." honored us -mth his presence and a series of interesting stories. How­ard Jones, our friend, reassured us that wliile he is not one of us, we may always be friendly ene­mies. Henry Newmaik, of the class of 1878, was cme of our honored guests. To our knowledge;, Henry is the second oldest living ex-stndent of the University. Although not of our Faith, he is rincere in his admiration for Notre Dame and proud that he can call her his Alma Mater. 
Manny Vcxie, *29, Babe Hbrrdl, Bill Spaulding, and Sam Barry of the eoaelung profesaon took a bow or said a few words, but from the entertain­ment world we, had Prank Fay, Pat O'Brien. Tony Martin, Dennis Day and Ronald Reagan, who uded in dragging night into day by their splendid performances and their reiteration of their love and admiration of the University of Notre Dame. 
We will always be grateful to the National Broadcasting Company for its kind co-operation in getting for us a transcription of the radio broadcast from Oiicago of the meeting held there. Wc were thrilled with the inspirational addresses. 
Uncle Sam declined to permit David J. Bernard, '40, to attend the dinner, as he is now stationed at Camp Callan, SanDiego, Calif. R. C Obercfall. PFC, Camp San Lub Obiqxi. wanted to be pres­ent, but. "The Captain said no — Now in the Army." Likewise amonsr those absent was Lt. JaMca K. Marr, *35, also at ckmp San Luis Obis­po, who had to be counted out, because "I'm fed­eral property." 
D«tchy Sidenfaden was too busy chan^ng tri­angles; Fied Piqae was back in Washington on the trail of big things; Marty Daly, who had to resign- as-dub secretary after a most resultful torn of office, is in fte North, builtUng new dams, and WiUiam J. Woenicr, '38, has aban­doned Los Angeles for Louisville, Ky., (the ad­dress: 208 Uayfair, Oxford Place.) 

Ed Kinsey, '28, after a nine-year absence, has returned to Los Angeles, and now maintains his office at 518 West Sixth Street. He is in the shipping business with the NTK Line.. 
Wedding bells were rin^ng out in Whittier on the 26th for Marty BtiD, '32, who took as his bride. Hiss Barbara Claire Thom. Football prac­tice at Loyola University was suspended until the newlyweds returned from Catalina. Father Edward Whelan, S.J., performed the ceremony at St. Vary's Catholic Chnrch. Jim HcNichoI of Fliila­delphia served-as the best man, while among the ushers were Bemie Bradley, Alex Bell, Bill Byrne, and Dick Hyland. Jndce Carberiy. '29, and your correspondent, Edward P. Conningiiam, '28, were among those present. 
If you are looking for a location for the next Universal Notre Dame Night I recommend tliat you hold it in Los Angeles and put John Bider. '30, in charge. I can guarantee that if he does half as good a job for yon as he did on our celebration here, you will have the greatest Notre Dame function in history. 
- Ed Cnnningham. MEMPHIS Austin K. Hall. '26, 967 Shrine BIdg., Presi­
dent: Joseph A. Canale. 'W, U33 Poplar Ave.. Secictaiy. 

In the absence of Joe Canale, our secretary, who was recently married in the Log Chapel of Notre Dame, and is (as this is written) away on his honeymoon in Florida, I submit the following news of our Memphis CHub: 
On March 27, the club held its annual election of officers at a dinner at the University Club, at which time the following officers were elected for 1941: Austin K. ITall, '26, president; William Fay, Jr., '36, first vice-president; Frank W. How-land, '25, second' vice-president; Joseph Canale, 
•38; secretary; Theone F. Dohogne, '27, reelected treasurer. 
The club had a very successful Universal Notre Dame Night, having one of the highest attend­ances we have had in many a year, in spite of the tact that several of our loyal supporters are at present in the service of the Army or Navy. 
A dinner was held at the University Club. An interesting program of speakers, headed by J. E. McCadden, one of Memphis' most prominent at­torneys. Father M. F. Kearney, popular priest of one of our parishes, a good fellow and an A-1 "tub-thumper" for Notre Dame; C P. I. Mooney, Jr., '21, spoke on the student life at Notre Dame in the "roaring twenties," followed by Charles VL Bryan, '97, life honorary president, who sjmke on Notre Dame's place in the world today. As special guests at this banauet were three seniors from Christian Brothers College and two Juniors from Catholic High School, who are definitely committed to enter Notre Dame. 
Following the dinner, we tuned in on the National Broadcast from Chicago, and later viewed the picture "Highlights of 1940" obtained from the University. 
Martin Regan, of the class of '40, has been commissioned an ensign in the U. S. Navy, and is at present at sea. Martin McGinnis, '39. and John Hnrpby, '35, are privates in the "rear ranks" at Fort Oglethorpe, Ga. 
Staria Canak is still acting as guardian at the meeUngs for Mark Beatns, one of the oldest living former Notre Dame students. 
the Notre Dame Club of Memphis has extended an invitaUon to GregoiT Bice to be its guest at an informal dinner at the University Club on the ni^ t of Kay 11, after his feature race in which he irill participate in the track meet for the Memphis Cotton CkniinL 
Tiic Notre D am e A I um n a s 
Yours truly, a local architect, has recently been 

elected secretary-treasurer of the Tennessee stats 
chapter of the American Institute-of Ardiitceta, 
and elected a delegate to the national eonventioQ 
to be held May 17 to the 23 at Yoaemite Valley 
and Los Angeles, Calif. 
Autin K. HalL 

MINNESOTA 
Gerald E. McKay. '30. 5512 11th ATCL. S.. Minneapolis, President; Bakeit IL Tegeier. ex. '36. 7 S. 6th St.. MinnespeHi, SccRtair. 

The Minnesota Notre Dame Club held its Uni­versal Notre Dame Party at the St. Paul Hotel in the Capitol Room. The dub listened to the national broadcast and everyone was enthusiastic about the national program which came in locally very clearly. 
Jack Yelland, of Minneapolis, spoke to ~ the club on the tentative program for the National Eucharistic Congress, which will be held in the Twin Cities from June 23 to 26. and also urged all of the members of our club to participate in this religious gathering which is to be -the great­est affair of its kind ever held in the Northwest. Father Bernard Conghlin, now at St. 'niomas College, made a splendid talk recalling to mind the basic principles of life which are taniAt to all Notre Dame students and their relationship to the coming NaUonal Eucharistic Congress. 
George Edmund, sports reporter 'for the "Pio­neer Press-Dispatch." spoke very glowingly of his experiences and reactions in associations be has had with Notre Dame men. Frank Mayer, president of the club, and Eugene O'Brien, a fior­mer president," were interviewed on -a local radio broadcast and brought out some of the salient points about Notre Dame University and the part which it is endeavoring to play in the life of the nation. -­
After dinner a business meeting was held and new officers for the ensuing year elected as follows: Jerry McKay, of Minneapolis, president; .Tames Galligan, vice-president,, representing Min­neapolis'; Frank Biagi, vice-president,, representing Stl Paul, and Robert M. Tegeder, of. Minneapolis, secretary-treasurer. 
After some discussion the club adopted a new by-law providing for a new executive committee to consult with and assist the officers of the club. This executive committee consists of three mem­bers of the club at large, elected at the regular annual meeting, and the out-going president and secretary-treasurer, and, in addition, the SUnne­sota district representative of Ae Alumni Asso­ciation. The members of this Executive Committee are: Tom Lee and Jack Doyle, of Minneapolis; Art Sullivan, of St. Fsnl, Daniel Caaghfin. of Waseca, Minn., Frank Mayer, former president, and George T. McDermott, former secretary-treas­urer. The new officers and Executive Committee will meet soon for the purpose of planning events for the coming year. 
The club had a very successful year which was due in a large part to the splendid cooperation the officers received from the members generally. 
- George T. McDenaott. 

MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.) 
Lester Lovier. '26, 604 N. Madim St.. Rome, President; Edward J. Sweeney, "M, 1415 Miner St.. Utio . Secntaiy. 

More than 50 alumni from Utica, Borne and Mohawk Valley towns attended a banquet in the Utica Hotel on April 21 in observance of the 18th annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Peter Dwyer, '10, football coach and director of athletics at Clarkson CoUese; Mayor Corroa and the Rev. John Burke of Our Lady of Loindes Church spoke. Motion pictures of the 1940 Notre Dame-Georgia-'Tech game were shown. Lester L. 
i7 

Lavier. Borne, president of the Notre Dune Ahni^ ni Chib of the Mohawk VaEey,' was' toaatmaiter:' Fiaa T—mn and Gceige Bidrtcr-were m charm of arrangooents.' 
Dwyer paid tribute to Fraak Leahy, former Boston College mentor, who is Notre Dame's new football coach. "If ever a man. left Notre Dane who is a second Kaate BeHnw," Ftianic Leahy is that man." Dwyer said. "Perhaps he will not win every gaise. He has a ton ^ sdiedole ahead. Bat he is the man for tlie job." 
The Glee CMb gave an enthntiaMifally-receiireJ concert in Some on April. 17. ­
NEW YORK CITY Wama S. Fagd, I*. U B. 4M St, Pnai­deat: TfaMttr J. Taawr. 11. Bayal bdn­
•Kr GA. Ut WiBaias St, SacKlaiir. 

The grand ..ballroom of the Hotel ^ Roosevelt was the scene of the joint Glee Club .concert of the 
' Cbllese' of New Boehelle and the. University Glee Clubs on Saturday afternoon. April 19. The Notre Dame Club of the at y of New Yoric and the Glee Cbb of the College of New Rochdle acted as co-sponsors of this very fine muncal treat. ^16 do justice to the affair 'fyonrs truly" shoold have been a combination music critic and fashion edi­tor. The program diowed evidoice of long hours of diligent rehearsing onthe part of both organ­izations, and their efforts were enthusiastieally received, particularly the solo numbers. The eon-cert was followed by a tea dance and the touring choristers from the campus showed'the.'young­ladies from New Rodielle' a few 'things abont "western swing and sway." Music for dancing was furnished by Bags Walther, '25, and his or­chestra. 
With 'bne_ of the most distinguished' groups of guests and speakers ever to grace 'the dais, at a Universal Notre Dame ban(xnet, the club observed the traditional evening of "get together"' on April 21 at the Piennsylvania Hotel. President Warren Fogel, *30, presided briefly, then turned the gavel over to Jack LaveUe, '23, general chairman u d toastmaster. Jack handled the proceedings in his usual capable manner and kept the guests and audience in lau^ter with .his up-to-the-minute stories. 
The club took 'this occasion, to pay tribute to Dr... WilBaai Thaaaa WaUh.' brilliant CathoBc writer, selected.by the University as Lsetare i aiist for 1940-41. Among other honored . and aoeakers were: Meat' Rer. Jehn F. CHaia. 
C.S.C DJi, Most Rev. Stephen J. Dooahoa, DJ>, Owen Davis,. Jr., of the .Roclme AII-American movie fame, "Ted Husing, well known radio 9orts commentator; John Kieran of "Informatioa Please"; sports eolnmhists of the "New Yoric Times": Prof. Quiz, conductor of a popular radio program; Ridiard Beid.' E.S.G., redpient of a recent Laetare Medal; Rev. Daniel diaiea. C&C; '36, and Rev. John B. Kelly, now engaged in writing the biography of the late and beloved Cardinal Patrick Hayes. 
The committee, headed by Jade Lavdk. '28. and asristed by Bab HaMiltsn. '28. Warm 9. Feed. '30. Jakn Martin. '40. Gesige Rahn^ '34, and Edward Hayt, '39, is to be congratnlatad oa making. Universal Notre Dame Ni^t of IMl ana of the most outstanding events ever put on by the club. 
Wanen Fagel recently appointed Tnik Haia­kiag. '37. as diaimian of the annual siimiarr out­ing of the club. The time and place are i-ndftlnlia at this writing, bat efforts are hdng nada to secure the popular Creseoit-Bnntingtoti ChiK TTmiHngtmi, Lmg Island, on June 2C. 1941. 
Our classmate. feDow member of Board of Gor­emois and fdlow columnist. Dick DsasghM^ 10. has already started outlining plans for tha Anmial Reanlon and Rally on the eve of the'Natze Daaw Army football same. Those of us who have worked 
with Dick en the Reunion and Rally Committee 
know that this early start on the part of the far­
sifihted Richard always evidences itself on the 
night of the affair — they are "biBser and better." 
Tim Toomey. 

NEW ORLEANS Charles de U Verme, *25, 1102 Blaritime Bldr- President; EmU L. Telfel, '31. Loy­«la Unirenitr, Secretary­
FVe^dent Charlcft de la VerEite 1)6031116 another eminent third tenner at our annual Universal Notre Dane Night dinner at the Jung Hotel, "win­ning re-election in a romp after the memhers ahd duly con^dered over chicken and biscuits. Bin Drenx was elected vice-president, succeeding Val l«Bian^ and EmU Telfel was douhle-dipped into the combined office of secretary-treasurer, repladng Aastin Boyle and Al Vitter. Patrick E. Burke, *88, remains honorary president and the best story teller in the club. "Wives, mothers and sisters attended the dinner with members. 
Service with the armed forces has pruned our lists, with Cyp Spori the latest to go. Cyp gave his Diesel yacht to the coast guard reserve, and signed up at $21 a month. 
Fabian Johnston, who recently escorted Bishop 0*Hara on a trip to Camp Shelby. Miss., was unable to make the dinner. Joe Dohan. once a mainstay of the varsity baseball squad, had a place at the head table. Jim and Lionel Favret were there, reporting busy days and nights in defense construction work. Bolan Burke has ioined bis father's insurance-firm, after a career in the law. de la Vercne and Drenx remain the club's legal eagles. 
Becent out-of-town visitors include John C Sul­

livan of Auburn. N. Y., selling Catholic textbooks, 
and Don O'Brien of New York, doing publicity 
for Standard Oil of New Jersey. 
Austin Boyle. 

NEW JERSEY 
Harvey P- Bockwell. *34. 74 Lenox Ave.. East Orange. President; Andrew E. O'Keeffe. 'S3, Box 363, New Branswic^ Secretary. 

The Glee Club concert on April 14 was pro­nounced a social success by those who attended. Everyone agreed that the Glee Club did a great job In presentation — especially as they were de­iBsed by ^ accident and arrived too late for a rehearsal. It was also agreed that Jim Clark and his <X)mmittee made good work of the arrange­ments. Particular credit is due to Gerry Froclidi and Pete Qainn. 
One week later was Universal Notre Dame Night. The dinner at the Essex County Country Club attracted a crowd of about 80 — somewhat better than our average for the past few years. Commissioner (and future Mayor, according to his friends) Joseph M.- Byrne, Jr.. handled the tpastmaster's iMsition as only Joe can. Among the speakers were: Father James ("Max") Carey, director of athletics at Seton Hall, who gave a heart-to-heart talk on Catholic education; Captain John Duggan. chaplain of the 1229th CASU, Fort Dix, who spoke on his work there; Capt. Jablon­fiky, backfield coach at the U. S. Military Acad­emy, and captain of the 1933 Army team. Hughic Devore, coach at Providence (R. L) College, and captain of the 1933 Notre Dame team. Last on the program was our old stand-by, Jim Crowley, who entertained the members with a few minutes of his famous wit. Toastmaster Joe Byrne ex­pressed the thoughts of the entire club when he said that he hopes Jim will be able to return for future Univeiisal Nights. 
"Die club as a whole feels that no one could have done a better job than did Chairman Tobey Krancr who handled the arrangements for the dinner. 
Ibe alumnus who travelled the farthest to at­tend the dinner was probably Private Ray Geixcr, USA, who came from Fort Dix with Chaplain Duggan. And that after being on duty continDOOs­ly for some 36 hours fighting a forest fixe whidi at one time seriously threatened the camp! On the other hand, many alumni who live almost within a stone's throw of the Essex County Cotm­try Club were among the missing! How about coming around once in a while, fellows? 
Latest word is that Ray has been transferred to Fort Jackson. S. C, where he is assigned to the 102nd Cavalry. Hi-yo, Silver I 
President Harvey Rockwdl has just been re­turned from a business trip through the South, which kept him away from both the concert and the Universal Night dinner. Harvey reports hav­ing seen several alumni during his travels. Among them were Frank Hodtreiter of St. Louis, and John O'Connor, Jr., president of the Tfnns*" City club. Harvey says that John is making a success of practidng law in K- C. 
AVhile it has been more or less customary for the duties of the secretary of this club to carry over beyond the election of his successor, at least to the extent of writing a note or two for the June "Alumnus," I'm afraid that will be impos­sible this year, as yr. obdt. svt. expects to be working at bis new job of Plrst Lieutenant, Coast Artillery, before the deadline for the Jane number arrives. Don't know yet where I'll be, but I certainly hope to be able to dig up one or two Notre Dame alumni in whatever comer of the world it may be. For that reason, I wish now to join with the other officers in thanking the mem­bers for their whole-hearted support of the pro­gram in which I have had a small part. To my successor, a word of advice: Don't try to tackle tho secretary's job unless you are exempt from military duty and are either married and settled down, or else a confirmed bachelor! So Long. Gang. 
Andrew E. O'Keeffe. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Robert L. McDonald, '30, 1032 Ardaore Ave., Oakland, President; Wm. T. Byrne, '29, 875-34th Ave., San Francisco, Secxetaty. 
A small but loyal band of men from Northern California, interested in Notre Dame and the d o tngs of her children, broke bread in the Athens Athletic Club in Oakland. Calif., on Universal Nisbt. 
Harry Bart carried on in his inimitable chatter about things near and dear to all Notre.Dame men. the priests, the buildings, the boys, the activ­ities, the stunts and pranks of the campus days. He also brought to the gathering an 1880-81 vol­ume of the "Scholastic." Ibis was loaned to him by Sonny Woods, a relative of J. A. Hdntyre of the class of 1881. 
Howard Pailter added his bit with a collection of newspapers of the 1926 U.S.C. football game in which Knnte K. Rodme first turned loose the T formation on the coast against Howard Jones for a victory. 13 to 12. (Stanford's T formation was hailed as something new on this coast during Stanford's successes, but Rockne seemed to be some 14 years ahead of the Stanford pigskin­ologists.) 
Robert Hill, '19, gave out some secret informa­tion regarding the stolen car left on old Dore road back in the 1919's. 
Paal Codling informed the gathering of the giving away of his dster, Bfary Elizabeth, to paal Enright, in Piedmont, the home town of the Cashings. on April 19, 1941. in a very respendent eeremony. 
Art Evans and Eleanor Cbrr Evans (St. Mary's, '32) are preparing a birthday party for two-year­old Hiss Evans, May 9. Ten days later Arthur slips off on a visit to Chicago and maybe a droxi­ia on the campus. 
Slip Sbdigan, is is said, expected to drop into Kentucky to look over the winner of the Derby. tben continue on to visit other tracks in the east. 
H«ward Paricer and WiUiara Byrne took to the ether waves when Euclid Candy Company spon­sored a tenth year Memorial for Bodme, over KFRC, San Francisco, March 31. 
Bob McDonald gave a short account of his do­ings in badminton. He Is playing an important part in popularizing the game among the middle-age group who seek a means of reducing the old waistline. Bob is a living example of the game's worth as a slenderizer and is quite an artist on the court. He is with the Maxwell Sporting Goods Company in Oakland. 
Attending the fifth annual Rockne MeaMria] Retreat of the Northern California Clab, devotedly and ably diurmaned, as in previous yean, by Kecae FJfipatfiffc, '13, were the fidlowinr* left to risjit: Seated — Father Rice, James Brophy, Dan Haley, Cluries H. Baexfale, L. T. Diebels, Father Ring. Keene Fitzpatrick, Charles P. Knights, F. Bf. MrAaliffe^ Ed McFadden, Father Crowley. Second row » Dr. Joseph B. Weeden. Claire Nolan, P. J. Flanagan, Stanley Perry, Walter Hath, Larry Daly, Harry Boyter, John C. McCabe, Aognstine Donoraii, Everett E. Camres. lUrd row — J. E, Heintz. W. E. Fitzpatrick, Ed a Seqoeira* Dan Marphy, Joha MeCartfcy* HaraU E. Halton, Dick King, George C. Finn, Thomas F. Connors, Alfred Blartlne, George D. Gaealar. Faortk rvw — C. F. Rafad, J. J. O'Reilly, J. 
D. Sullivan, Pete Howland, Hugh 0*DoimeII, Francis T. Barday, Edward If. O'JEEeiHy, W. J. Wilson, C. 
G. LUenberg, Dr. C. E. Simon, George E Mvpliy, Adtlaa Ward. Absent when picture was taken — Thomas O. Dolan, Walter F. Healy, Frank J. Sue , JaoMS S. Shech^, Ernest P.^O'Hair, John E. Kiefer. 
Haxk Kre«t2er, DennU Keenui, Tom Lewelljn and Loa Bittner promised to bzins the boya from San Jose. Santa Clara, San Mateo and Bnrlin­same on to'San Francisco with them next year for our meetins at the Olympic Cluh on Univer* sal Notre Dame Night. 
Hie officers elected for the year are: Robert 

McDonald, '30. of Oakland, president; Arthnr 
Evans, '27, of San Jose, vice-president; William 
Byrne, '29, of San Francisco, secretary. 
William Byrne. 

OKLAHOMA 
Wimaa J. Sherry, '14. 814 Kcnstedy Bldv^ TiUsa, Ofcla., President; Cari J. Sender. '37. 12M S. Cheyenne, Tnlsa. SecreUry. 

On March 30, the club sponsored at the l^ilsfl Clab the first annual Communion breakfast to be held in memory of Knate K. Bodcne. Those attend­ing* the memorable occasion were: WUlimm J. Sherry, president; J. A. Horan, Lany W. Enslert, 
J. H. Reidy, H. T. Griffin, R. C. Stneve, Charles HeNamar, Bill Conry, Lloyd Worley, Bob Sieg­fried and C J. Senger. 
Ilie annual spring dinner meeting was held April 20 at the Skirvin Hotel in Oklahoma City. This be' ing the first such meeting to be held in Oklahoma City in several years, the affair was a great su e cess. Thanks to James E. Bnrke and William Lomasney for their splendid work. 
Those attending from Tulsa were: William J* Sherry. William E. Conry, Lloyd F. Worley, Joseph A. Horan, John Uoran, Robert Siegfried and C J. Senger. 
Ed Story. '11, drove in from Elk City. Ed operates the Story Hotel there. Haskell Askew drove in from Ardmore. Okla., where he is man­ager of the Fire Companies Adjustment Bureau. Jchn Blahoney hails from Enid and traveled to Oklahoma C^ty especially to attend this meeting. 
Those attending from Oklahoma City were: James E, Bnrite, in the real estate management business; William Lomasney, associated with James E. Barke. J. S. Askew, Jr., in the fire and casualty business, John B. Martin in the in­surance and real estate business. P. A. McKcnna, head of the McEenna Development Company, and Bob ConwcU with the Phillips Petroleum Com­pany. 
It was decided to form an Oklahoma City Notre Dame Club in order to hold meetings in that sec­tion of the state. When the club is organized arrangements will be made to have a ioint meet­ing twice a year, the spring meeting to be held in Oklahoma City and the fall meeting in Tulsa. 
James E. Barfce. William Lomasney and Haskell Askew are in charge of forming the Oklahoma (Sty Notre Dame Club. Let us all give them our support so that we may have two active branches in Oklahoma. Let us make Oklahoma Notre Dame conscious! C J. Senxcr. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Adrian J. Wackerman, '35, 5356 Chew St.. President; OilTord E. Prodehl, '32, 6070 Chester Ave., Secretary, 

We had just polished off the last vestiges of our fruit cup, soup, turkey and ice cream and had just settled back with our coffee. The pros­pects looked bright for some good speeches. 
We were fortunate enough to have heard Father O'DonncU and were in the midst of Frank Walker's talk when his enthusiasm was evidently too much for us and both the lights at our end and the radio set went dead simultaneously. The engineers went into action. When order was re­stored and the lights came back on, Dan Yonng and his Dry Dock Associates gang were buned beneath a pile of blue prints. We were really sorry to have missed the remaining talks. Not that it dampened the enthusiasm of the gathering, num-
The Notre D am c Alumnus 
Fifteen members of the PhiladelphU Chib •Miwdii this wade-BctiMt at St. lmwttr» %m Ifci 
Hills. Malvern. Fm^ of vhkh John H. NCCSM. tS. WM^ «M- tk» 
Neeson is seventh from the left in the frmt rvw. 
bering well over 200; it acted rather as a stimulus to informality. 
"Chief Neeson gave a brief resume of the meaning of Universal Notre Dame Night. He then introduced the new officers who are Joe Wacfcer­man at the helm, Joe Mahoney as bis running mate, Harold Duke holding the funds (we couldn't make him let go of them), and yours tmly scratching the pen. 
At the election meeting on March 18, the fol­lowing were chosen as new members of the Board of Governors: Dan Yonnr. F. H. Fricfc, E. C Callow and William A, A. CastelUni. Holdover directors are Walter Ridley. Joe Hahoney and Permanent Chairman John Neeson. Gcorve I. Baldwin, canon of Eauclair Episcopal (^thedral, gave a beautiful talk at the meeting on the sub­ject of his vocation in life and the results he has seen from the boys he has sent to Notre Dame. 
We have to admit that the outgoing officers sparked by Bill CastelUni and "White Flash" Bailey have set a pretty fast pace and it will be to our credit to even equal their performance for the past year. We're going to give it a try thouidi and even at the exi^ense of starting this job with a tear in my voice we're asking for the continued cooperation of you men in this area. 
CUff PraddO. 

RHODE ISLAND ft S. E. MASS. 
John J. HcLuchHn. '34, Mrn^wi Baad. Oimberland Hill, R. I., President; RnaotB L. Hunt, *39. 45 Olo St., Woonaocket, R. U Secretary. 

On April 21 about 100 members and friends of this club gathered in the establishement of Presi­dent John RTcLanghlin to observe Universal Notre Dame Night. . 
The program opened with an informal bull ses­sion at which many of the boys renewed old friendships. Jack Brady, of Fawtncket, was the chairman of the evening and introduced many of the sports celebrities who took part in the pro­gram. 
The first speaker was the Rev. Thomas Dnffy, C.S.C.. club chaplain and head of the eastern mission band stationed at North Easton, Mass. Other speakers were Jack Cronin. coach at La-Salle Academy, Providence, which produced John Mclntyre, center on the 1939 football squad; Ed "Moose" Krause, now assistant football coach and head basketball coach at Holy Cross (College, Worcester. Mass.; Ed Crotty, assistant football and head basketball coach at Providence College; Tom Thorpe, famous football offirial and head steward at Narragansett race track in Fawtncket. who, incidentally, officiated at the first grid tussle bet^veen Notre Dame and Army, played at West Point: Bill Halloran, another -wdMoiowm svid • offidal; Jack Malltn. of CHntoo. HL, yrho mm a member of the 1915 football team at KD: ; Skip Staley, fooOall coadi at Brown imivcrnty. Fkovi­dence. and his assistant FVank Sonrtiaclf, a for­mer AlPAmerican end whBe at Pittflbonh Uni­versity, and Eati Brawn, former AU-Amezfeaii end at NJ>. and at present assistant footbaU and head baskethall eoach at Harvard Umrerrity. 
Rev. William Delaney, bead of the 'O.T.O. in Rhode Island, and the Kcr. BMadI McViaMj also gave Aort speeches. 
Included on the program were morica of saaea on the 1940 NJ). fooibaU sdiedole and eolorad slides of the eampos; 
• The affair closed with the aervinar of i^fmh­ments at which grace was given by tb» Bar. WUfiaH Silay. C.S.CL. a moaber of the eastern mission band. ttmtm R h, ] 
Fifty tables were in play at the nxth annoal bridge and fashion show of the Notre Dane GuOd of Rhode Island and Southeastern Kaaaachnaekta, in the Empir* Boom of the Oown Hbtd, Provi­dence. Proceeds of the affair will be vaed for tiie guild's scholarship fund. 
Miss MaxT A. McNally, of Central FaUa, win general chairman of the emamitteea which worked with the president. Miss Karsaret X, Brady, of Pawtackeb. Miss Loretta <?. CRoorke waa in charge of the fashion diow. 
Those who acted as modds wo e the Mary R. Grimes, North Providence; M. Elaine Rochon and Marie McGrath, of Providence and Rita Goff. Roth Williamson and Franees Moran. all of Pawtocket. Mrs. RndoliA Bergman of Cranston was cmnmentator. 
ROCHESTER Fiaak X. Caadr. ex. 14. lU Spiiw St. PiMUnt: Jilni F. BmOmr. 17. UU GMK w m BHr.. U> Ibia St, SKntuy. 
Universal Notre Omme NiAt was, a, nsaaL celebrated in Rochester witli considerable fanfare, and, thoosh we liaTe Men larger nani]>en attend this event in years sone by, those present voted ' the 1941 edition a bowline sacoess. (Aside to our Hr. Connelly: Some of the lads wondered why the fish pictnres, Frank?) 
The dinner was .master of eeremonied by tiie. versatile President Cemdiy. and after bia grmt work of April 21 we reeonmiend bim to the Alum­ni Office as excellent raw material for any of yonr trips to Inch sdiools or ahmmi fonetknuu Chief speaker of the evening was Dr. Kayaard Connell of St. Bernard's Seminary. Onr own Jadce Bnrke, '16. spoke of his years at Notre Dame. Other quests at the bead table included Henry Clune, syndicated columnist for the Gan­nett newspapers, and Pr. John Reddinston of St. Bernard's Seminary. 
Bill Jones of '32 has crept into this column again but be deserves a blow. AVhen this appears in print Bill will have acquired a wife, the for­mer Dons Webber. Concratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Jones. 
We- also wish to announce that Jerry FarreU 

is still treasurer of the local club. Jerry, it seems, 
is one of the few men who has found a way of 
resiffnins from the Army. 
John F. Harley. 

ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Bertnnd D. CooEhlin, *26, 7704 Coontry Ciab Court, President; Albert J. RaTsrino, *S5, 4fi51 ^law St., Secretary. 

We celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a large party at the Hotel Chase Starli^t Roof. Dr. Dan 0*Gr*dy represented the Univer­sity and gave us a familiar discourse in the philo­sophical mood, in which be pointed out the need to examine* the authority of our experts who today are adviang us on tlungs material and spiritual. Some of I>an's stories took us back to campus days when he "charmed" his way into the minds and hearts of his metaphysics students. 
Two disappointments overshadowed the evening 

— first w e could not get the national program from Chicago because of network complications — the Chase's station being a Mutual affiliate; and secondly, Dick Jergens, who was expected to play for the party, was delayed en route. A swell sub­stitute was called in though and Hal Ha^-ird's band filled the bill very well-
Dinner was served at 8 after a reception in the loimge. During and after dinner there was dancing* with two floor shows, one at 9:30 and another at midnight. 
Uie party was in the able hands of Dr. Bert CoughUn, Vlnce GorriUa, Bill O'Connor and Al Ravarino. 
Fred BIcNeil was the first man of the local club to be called up by Uncle Sam. Fred left us on-Feb. 20, and your correspondent has not heard ot his assignment. 
Another local N.D.'er to be in the service is Vic Carton who has been here for the past six years working for the International Shoe Co. Vic is in the finance division out here at Jefferson Barracks, which is actually an induction center. 
Beanie Cavender, who attended St. Louis Uni­versity Med School and was to start a year's term as resident at DePaul hospital this year, was called up as a reser\'e officer last June. Last we heard of him he was stationed at Fort Knox. 
Al Ravarino's father died after a long illness. We express the sincere condolences of the club to AL Hoch. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
R, Floyd Searcr, "28, First Bank & Trust Cow, Soath Bend, President; Clarence Hard­inff, '25, Sodtii Bend Tribune, South Bend, Secretary. 

More than 100 members of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, their wives and friends celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner sn the upper dining room of the Notre Daine Dining HalL Feature of the evening, of course, was the nationwide broadcast which was received over a loud-speaker system. Kiinmng this ^lendid broadcast a close second, however, was the dob's own program arranged by a committee headed by Joseph Nyikos and Noraan Hartier. On this program appeared such luminaries as Rev. John Cavanani^ C.S.C., vice-prendent of the University, who outlined the program for the Centennial; Bill Cemey, of the football coadiiog staff, in a learned discourse on the history of com­petitive sports; Ray Meyer, assistant basltttball coach, pinch-hitting for Head Coach Gcsrse Kc^^ gan, who is ill; and members of the 1940-41 var­sity basketball team. 
James E. Armstrong, secretary of the *'""*"' Association, proved an able and witty toastmaster. Looia V. Bmnrner, president of the Notre Daxne Club of St. Joseph Valley, presided at the 1 meeting and election of directors. 
Directors elected for a term of three were Herbert £. Jones, Bernard J. Voll, S. Fl»yd Searer and Panl Bntler; for a two>year term, Clarence W. Harding, Walter H. Langford. Jue e 
R. Meehan and James Roland; for a one-year term, Gerald J. Hoar, Charles A. Sweeney, Xedb Hickey and Lonis V. Bmggner. 
Of special interest was the rex>ort of the club's scholarship committee given by WiUiaja S. Deol­ey, in which a plan was announced whereby schol­arships to Notre Dame will be offered to hig^ school students in the St. Joseph Vall^. This plan will ultimately result in four concurrent scholarships. The details of the scholarship, plan will be announced at an early date. 
Earlier in the evening a Universal Notre Dame Night program, siwnsored by the club, was broad­cast from the campus studios over **The South Bend Tribune's" radio statioin WSBT. This pro­gram took the form of a round-table discnstdon in which the development of the University and its accomplishments were discussed by Ltrais Bmggner, Prof. Louis J. Buckley, Paal Batler and Warren Deahl, *41, president of the Notre Dame Villagers. ' -' 
At a meeting of the newly-elected board of directors held April 28, officers for the en^qing year were elected. Those elected to office are John W. Schindler, honorary president; Ker. James D. Trahey, C.S.G., chaplain; R. Floyd Searer, president; Gerald Hoar, vice-presidait; Clarence W. Harding, secretary; Herbert E. J«ies. treasurer. James R. Bledian was appointed assists ant treasurer, and Louis Hickey was made assist­ant secretary. 
The new board of directors voted unanimously to carry on with the scholarship prograia insti­tuted by the previous administration and api>ointed a committee consisting of R. Flyod Searer, chair­man, Frank Miles, William R. Dooley, Charies 
. A. Sweeney and James R. Mecfaan to draw \xp the rules and award the first scholarship. Clarence Harding. 
TUCSON (Arizona) Vincent Hengesbadi. ex. '27, P. O. Bas 533, President; Ted A. Witz, ex. 19, Bm 628, SecreUry. 
Friends of Joe Degnan, '34, will be glad to learn that he is getting along on the road to recovery and has returned to his 'home in East Lebanon, N. H. 
Leslie Raddatz, '33, left Tucson for Los Angeles, where he intends to make his permanent home. Give my regards to Hart Daly, Les, when yoa sec him. 
Ted Witz. 

WEST VIRGINIA 
William J. Kcnney, '34, 714 Lee St» ChaclBS­
ton. President; Hii&ad J. O'Conaer, "Si; 
1329 Qzarrier SL, Charkston, SecfcCuy. 

Universal Notre Dame Ni^ t was in Qiarleston with a very enjoyable dinner at the Edgewood Country Oub. This year the ladies were invited and thdr presence added further enjoyment to the affair. 
We listened to the radio broadcast from school and then several members gave short talks, among these were two recent members. Ken Gntshaw, *40, and Joe Necnan, '41. Jadge Arthnr Hndson, '95, also gave a nice talk. The remainder of the evening was sociaL 
Jelui Jdle, '38, was welcomed into the dub upon coming here from Wtscon^n. He is now employed in the drafting d^artment of Carbide and Carbon Chemical Corp. 
Fan! Sduah, '38, left this week for a year's training in the army. Best of luck to you, Paul. BCke O'Connor. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
A. Maurice Sdhafer, '37, 117 N. Main St, Msntesano, Wadi., President; John P. Eng­lish, '35, 1415 Fifth Ave^ Seattle^ Wad., Secretary. 

On Universal Notre Dame Night we held a dinner-meeting at the College Club in Seattle. Twenty-four members came around at the call of the dinner bell, namely: President Frank Denney, Secretary Hanrice Schafer, E. G. Lenihan, James Phdan, Richard Meade, Edward Tobin, Thomas Meade, Frank HcHngli, Joseph Horrigan, E. L. Cochrane, Leo Commings, Robert Pigott. Jerry Hagan, Joseph Sinnott, Pat Goggin, M. C Davis­coart, John English, Phil Hostennan, Dr. Carney, Harry Abd. Dr. Claire. Shannon, Morris Starrett and George Britten. .We missed-the rest of the gang but we feel highly pleased with the edi ­tion to our club of Goggin and Tobin, who are employed at the Boeing Aircraft Plant Pat Sath­eiland of Seattle, who is starting his freshman year at'N.D. in September, was also with "us. 
- Round table discussion of Notre Dame in gen­eral and a report from Jim Armstrong took up most of the evening. James Phelan talked a Uttle of Frank Leahy as did Bob Pigott who was a classmate of Leahy. 
Dicfc Bleade was welcomed back to the North­west after a stay in the arid res^on lying south of OS. We found out Phil Hosterman has left J. 
C. Penny's payroll and is receiving his bread and butter &om another source, but just didn't find out where. We were all glad to see Bud Davis­covrt well on the road to recovery from a hunting acddent of the past season. 
Ihe election of the ofiHcers for the coming year was held: Bfanrice Schafer, president; £ . I.. Cochrane, vice-president: and John P. English, secretary-treasurer. 
Plans are being made for an afternoon of golf up the Starrett way at Chevy Chase on IMscovery Bay. 
Bfanrice Schafer. 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
Chas. B. Cnihwa, Jr., '31, 1866 Coronado 
Ave., President; Clarence T. Shcehan, '40, 
215 Granada Ave., Secretary. 

The Youngstown alumni celebrated Universal Notre Dame Ni^ t at the Steel City Club. This is news because It marks the first meeting of local srads in several years. Jade Kane, *25, was the man bdiind the revival. Twenty members were on hand to enjoy a delicious dinner, disooss old times and entfauuastzcally approve of the new coach. Alter a fatmied election of officers we li»r tened to the broadcast 
Oudte Cwfcwa, *31, will goide the club's des­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Ihe WasUncton, D. C, Clak obtenred Unirenal Notre Daaw Nicht with a dinner in the Shmrc­hani HoteL In tliis picture, taken at the dinner, are, left to ricfat, front row: Ber. Speer Strahan, 17, chaplain. Ft. Merer, Va., a speaker; Leo HaHin, '22, chairman; Andnw C> Aath. *S4, prcddent mt tha dab: RcT. CiiriBtopker O'Toole, C.S.C., '29, nperior Hdr Cioaa CoHece, WadUnston. D. c:„ a •»< ilai. back roar. Captain John Hinkel, '29, IT. S. Armr: Artluir Bersman, '20; Ambrose O'ConneH, '(T: JaaMa 
D. Hares. '17, toastmaster; Dr. Edward J. HelTron, execntire secretary of the National CoancU sf Cath­olic Hen; O. Worth Clark, '22, V. S. Senator from Idaho, prindpal speaker. Capt^ Binkd, Mr Bercaun, and Mr. O'Connd] were on the committee whidi arranred the dinner. -. 
times until next April. John Horan, retiring pres­ident, will serve as vice-president. 
It was like "old home week" for Ed De Bartolo, Bin DnideTT, Regis FaOon, Eli Leondli. Gabe Moran, Bill Vaher, Joe Vasdiak. Joe Wallace, and Ivan Wolf. 
Dr. Jamea BiiEins, Sharpsville, P^, and Pan] Goamieri, Warren, Ohio, visited the bis city for the nisht. Tim Kins and Tom 0*Dea represented the more recent grads. 
Clyde Atchinson, '29, Elkhart, and Rocer Solli­
•an, '38, Atlanta, were welcomed into the steel city chapter. Both are with local steel companies. Howard Hnrdock, '37. who is on the road for the Vitamin Institute of America, dropped in for the meetinsr. 
Frank Valetich, '38. Spike Siesd, '39. Bill Fay­aMnville, '40, Jack Cook, ex. '40, and Chnck Mc-Cabc, ex. '39,- sent their regrets —• they are gone with the draft. 
Our next meeting will lie on Monday, Hay 19. at the Steel City Club. Several other members, who were unable to attend the revival meeting, have promised to be on hand. 
Pete Sheehan. 
GRADUATE NEWS 
Kakvt J. Tknui^ 211 W. 14th St.. WO­
•iaftaa. Dahwanu 
Not much in the way of news this trip. It has been rumored, however, that that Kolka fellow is still managing to get around. What's this about you Mardi Gras-ing it in New Orleans, Al? 
Fred Webier served on the committee in charge of the Paint, Varnish and Plastics -Division of the American Chemical Society on the occasion of the Society's semi-annual meeting^ in St. Louis recently.' 
So far is is icnown, the Selective Service Act hasn't caused any of the former grad students to shed their civvies for the khaki, — yet. however, both Mare Geerts and.Art Baam have taken their physical exams._ The local board has seen • fit to grant Art a deferment because of his occupation. 
Robert J. Thomas. 





U.N.D. NIGHT ADDRESSES 
(Continued from Page 7) 

leader — their dictator and their Godl 
Against this mad world dream of per­version and brutality, I lift my voice in tribute to a great university which has cultivated, through a century, that other ultimate force of "mind," or, as I would prefer to name it, the human soul. There has been in the quiet, intense process of this cultivation, no ritualistic, blind loy­alty to anyone or to anything. 
Notre Dame has asked of her students an intelligent, free, loyal belief in the existence of a God Who is not a blind force but a real Person, of a Creator, who has endowed men with certain in­alienable rights, among which are "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." We of Notre Dame are convinced, jost 

- of the Founding Fathers of America were convinced, that the admission of a personal God is a prerequisite for the sincere acceptance and the vigforous de­fense of American, and human, liberty; we are convinced that reality of a Di­vine Power is the foundation of all reas­onable morality. 
It is no weakness of uneducated in­security or uncultured superstition that urges ns to resist and to attack tlie insidious rationalism, materialism and communism that makes of God only a name and of man only a machine. It is the strength of knowledge, the power of truth, that grasp and hold the ^iritnal reality of an Almighty God and the in­

' destructible dignity of a human soul. To that Supreme Being, we give our humble worship and our constant awareness; to that hiunan soul, we pledge oar zeeogni­tion of its individaal rif^its, its foitress of freedom. 
The alnmni of Notre Dame, scattered throngfaoiit America and thronj^iit tlie entire world, unite this evening in pledg­ing themselves anew to the triple loyal­ties which they have learned from their Alma Hater — loyalty to a personal God, loyalty to the obligation of respect­ing, eveiy man's dignity and his rights, loyalty to troth as a criterion of action. These are the loyalties from which the free men of the worid most draw strength and enthusiasm to conquer the force and brutality which atheism, in­justice, and deception have begotten to corrupt tlie peace and harmony of man­kind. 

NOTRE DAME BOOKS 

Thirty-Four Present Day Stories, se­lected by John T. Fredericks. Scrib­ner's. $1.25. 
Since Mr. Frederick is. a professor of English at Notre Dame and since two of the stories of his choice are by two other Notre Dame professors, many ALUMNUS readers will experience a par­tienlar delist in reading this volume. 
Included in the book are '^lack-Pur­ple in the Corn," by Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., "20, head of the English Depart­ment, and "Hie Sobin," by Bichard Sul­livan, '30, assistant professor of Enj^ish. 
Says the CMeago Tribune about the book: 
"Althon^ this anthology was designed for school use, it is such an excellent one and contains so many of the great short stories- of our day that it should have great popularity with leadors out of school as well as in. Here are to be found the best examples of all types of modem stories from Katherine ICansfield to the creator of Hyman Kaplan." 
The latest juvenile of Brother Ernest, C.S.C., Eddie of Jackson's Gang, has been accepted for fall publication by St. Anthony's Guild Press, Paterson, N. J. Last year this press published The Ad­ventures of Tommy Blake, by the same' writer, which is selling steadily. 

ELDER IN NEW POST 

Jack Elder, '30, a halfback on the na­tional championship Notre Dame team of 1929, has been appointed . secretary of the Illinois Athletic Commissan by Gov. Dwi^^t Green. 
Jack, who has been athletic director of the Chicago Catholic Youth Organi­zation for a number ot years, succeeds Barney Soss, former world's lightweight and welterwei{^t boxing champion. 
»


THE ALUMNI 
Eiigageffleiifs 
Miss Katherine Gillan and Lawrence J. Colliney, 
•28,
 of New York CSty. 

Miss Marjorie Lawrence and John J. Antns, 

•28,
 of New Yoric City. 


Miss Doris Webber and William J. Jones, '32, of Rochester, N. Y. 
Miss Megan Arvon Jones and Morris C. Hertel, 
•36, of SouOi Bend, Ind. 
Miss Margaret Christiansen and Jotin C. Mar­badi. '37, of White Plains, N. Y. The wedding has been set for May 22, in Glen Ridge, N. J. 
Miss Justine Ellen Besinger to Edward C Hager. '38, of Sooth Bend. 
Martians 
Miss Mary Cunningham and Frank A. Dettle, '26, were married, April 19, in Cassopolis, Mich. Dennii O'Neill, *26, brother-in-law of the bride, was an usher. 
The marriage of Miss Mary P. Corrigan and Paul A. Roberto, '28, took place. Feb. 12, in South Euclid, Ohio. 
Miss Pauline Hawcs and Charles H. Bnsche­meyer, *29, were married, Nov. 21, in Louisville. 
Hie marriage of Miss Evelyn Osborn to Robert 
F. Enreraan, '30, took place, April 15, in Fort Wajme, Ind. 
Miss Barbara Clare Thorn and Klartin Brill, *32, %vere married, April 26, in Whittier, Calif. 
Miss Helen Carey and Charles F. Weiss, '32, were married, April 5, in South Bend. 
Miss Helen Ruth Heideman and Benjamin J. Cariiman, '33, were married, April 27, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Elizabeth Reed and Joseph Arsns, Jr., *35. were married, April 19. in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Virginia Belle Kline and Thomas L. Hidcey, Jr., ex. '35, were married. April 19, in South Bend. 
Miss Jean Boyer and John S. Montedonico, '35. were married recently in Memphis, Tenn. 
The marriage of Miss Jeanette Westpheling and Irwin F, Sdiwien, '36, took place. Sept 5, in St. Joseph, Ho. 
Miss Cecilia Marie Schnen and Daniel R. Finn, '37, were married, April 14, in Attleboro, Mass-
The marriage of Miss Bonnie Schaffran and fiCltim A. Katz, '37, took place, April 27, in Chi­cago. 
Miss Margaret Julia Caldwell and Edward T. Wilson, '37, were married in Chicago recently. 
Miss Mary BischofT and Robert J. Crontn, '37. were married. Feb. 8, in Chicago. 
Miss mta O'Connell and Hmothy R. Kinff, '37, were married recently in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Marie Griffin and Francis James O'Lanefatin, *38, took place, April 14, in St. Louis, Mo. 
Miss Mary Denise Cahill, daughter of Jaaes F. Cahill, *14, and Joseph A. Canale, '38, were mar­ried. April 19, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. 
Miss Grace Mahoney and Thomas W. Walnnrits, '38, were married, April 19, in the Ijog Chapel, Notre Dame."" 
The marriage of Miss Helena Cryan and Burnett C. Bauer, '38, took place, April 14, in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Miss Lucille Kathleen McCauley and Georce E. Ecenan, '38, were married. May 3, in Hillside, 
N. J. 
Miss Lorraine Driscoll and Philip J. Kirdi. *3S, were married, April 29. in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Jeanne Le Febvre and Robert J. Shea, '38, took place. April 15. in Mil­waukee. Wis. 
Miss Dorothea Griffith and Harold F. Lanfton, 
•38. were married, April 14, in Baltimore, Md. 
The marriage of Miss Patricia Keweger and George B. Morris, '39, took place, April 19, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Beatrice Majewsld and George BC. 0*Neil, Jr., '39 .were married. May 3, in Barrington, HI. 
Miss Arvilla Goodrick and E. Hugo Winter^ rowd, '39, were married in the Log Chai>el, Notre Dame, on April 16. 
Miss Margaret Jones Gannaway and WllUam 
D. Blathis, Jr., '40, were married, April 26, in Memphis, Tenn. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Elizabeth Romaine to Frands X, Baamert, '40, took place, April 18, in Paterson, N. J. 
The marriage of Miss Rosemary DeVreese to Edward L. Delahanty, *40, took place, April 19, in South Bend. 
Miss Vir^nia Mary Love and John H. Ifohl­mann, '40, were married on May 10, in Kenmore, 
N. Y. 
Miss Margaret Hausman and Joseph R. Thesing. '40, were married. April 19, in Cincinnati. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. E. Bradley Bailey, ex. •23, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Catharine, their third daughter and twelfth child, on April 25. in Philadelphia. 
Mr. and Mrs. William F. Gallagu. '24, an­nounce the birth of a son. James Patrick, on March 23, in Bloomfield, N. J. Dr. GenU W. Hayes, •25. was the attending physician. 
A daughter, Eleanor Louise, was recently bom to Mr. and Mrs. Jowph L. Bisali. ex. '27, in Oak Park, 111. 
A son, Thomas Harry, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Vincent T. Walih. '28, on Mardi 12. in Monticello. III. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henir E. Hinicnkamp. ex. '30, announce'the birth of a boy. Paul Dennis, on April 10. in Flainfield. N. J. 
A son. Daniel, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Leo 
J. Kenndly, •30, on March 28, in Pittsburgh. 
A daughter, Catherine Margaret, was bom to BIr. and Mrs. Charles F. Qninn, Jr., '34, on April 1, in Mineola. L. I., N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Klosminski. '35, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, recently, in South Bend. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John F. Clark, '35, .on March 9, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dan W. Codiran. '38, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia Ann, on July 11, in Wheeling, W. Va. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charies P. Terry. '38, announce the birth of a son, Peter Browne, on May 2. in Peoria, ni. 


Deaths 
Notre Dame lost an outstanding alumnus but giuned an enriched tradition when Frederic Wil­liam Wile died in Washington. D. C, on April 
7. Mr. WIe was a student at Notre Dame in 1888 and until 1891. In 1924, the University awarded him an honorary LL.D. 
Of his long and brilliant career, "Editor & Publisher" for April 12, 1941, gives an able digest: 
"Death today ended the career of Frederick William Wile, journalist and pioneer radio com­mentator who had "carried on" through several bed-ridden months. 
"Drawing upon the experience of half a century in news gathering and writing, here and abroad. Mr. Wile propped up in bed had written prolifi-
Fradaric WaUan WUe 

cally through a long siege of heart disease. Only his close friends vrere aware that the more recent writings in the 'Washington Evening Star* and elsewhere, appearing under his by-line or dis­tinguishable by his style, were drafted under that handicap. Personalities and places looming large in the European eruption were intimately familiar to him and he wrote of them with a knowledge of their relative importance in the war, and their potentialities based on past performance. 
"A native of La Porte, Ind., he was of Jewish extraction but was a graduate and one of the most active and distinguished of Catholic Notre Dame's alumni. He was bom Nov. 30, 1873. He became a reporter for the 'Chicago Record' in 1898. Two years later he went to London to rep­resent the 'Becord' and the 'Chicago Daily News' for the Boer War period. In 1902 he went to Berlin, remaining until the outbreak of the World War. 
"During he first three years of British partici­pation in the World War he authored a column, 'Germany Day by Day,' published in the 'London Daily Hail.' 
"In 1917, Mr. Wile returned to the United States. The yfar Department was quick to ap­praise the value of his knowledge of German af­fairs and invited him to enter the intelligence division. 
"Following the war he became chief, of the Washington Bureau of the 'Philadelphia P^lblie Ledger.' 
"Mr. Wile was one of the first news commenta­tors regularly appearing on radio programs. He was the first to broadcast a trans-Atlantic news program — a description of the London Naval Conference of 1930. 
"In the pre-World War era he wrote two books 

which were destined to take their place in diplo­
maUc and military history. The first was 'Our Ger­
man Cousins' written in 1909; the second, appear­
ing timely in 1913, was 'Men Around the Kaiser.' 
Most interesting of his most recent books was his 
autobiography, published two years ago under the 
title, 'News Is Where You Find It' 
"Mr. Wile's writings had appeared in the 

'Washington Evening Star' since 1923. 
"Surviving are his widow, a daughter, Helen Isabel Wile, and a son, Frederick William Wile, associated with Young & Rubicam Advertising Agency. New York City. The body was taken to La Porte for burial." 
And it is in La Porte that the Notre Dame tradition has ite roots. The father of Frederic William Wile, Jacob Wile, was president and reader of Congregation B'ne Zion, synagogue of the small Jewish community in La Porte. 
Only a few miles away. Father Edward Sorin waa overcoming obstacle after obstacle in the early years of the Catholic University of Notre Dame which he had founded in 1842. 
And so deep was the bond of understanding, of faith, of the spirit of progress, of love for America, and of transcending tolerance, between these two men of an earlier era, that Notre Dame was often the recipient of aid from the Wile in­fluence and family in La Porte, and when it was time for Frederic to enter school, it was Notre Dame that Jacob Wile chose. 
Throughout the long and distinguished career of Frederic William Wile, many of the years spent abroad, his vrritings and his personal friend­ships were never without reflections of the Notre Dame influence which he knew as child and as school mingling in true American tribute to highly esteemed Notre Dame man. 
Rt. Rer. Hsgr. Charles B. TUel*. 78 yean old. a student at Notre Dame in 1879-81, died in Fort Wayne, Ind.. on April 17. following an illneia of ten months. Serving for nearly 53 yeaia under four bishops in the Fort Wayne diocese. Jfsgr. Thiele had been irremovable rector of St. Peter's Church, Fort Wayne, since 1905. His funeral, on April 21, was one of the largest in the history of the city. Most Rev. John F. Noll. D.D.. bishop of Fort Wayne, presided at the services and preached the sermon. 
Frrderidc J. SduOo. B.S. '94, Houston, Texas. died suddenly on April 17. Bom in Chicago. Mr. Schillo had been a resident of Hooston for the past 27 years. Surviving him are'his wife, two sons, a daughter and a sister. Burial waa in Houston. 
The "Religious Bulletin" announced on March 28 the death of Frank F. Beand. Chicago, a Notre Dame student in the 'OO's. 
Joseph B. Nangfaton. New York City, died on April 1. Mr. Naughton was at Notre Dame in 1895-98 and was a monogram-winning member of the basketball team of 1897-98. Be waa elected . to membership in the Alumni Association in 1926. His wife survives him. 
Rev. Vin'cent D. Dwyer. A.B. '00. chaplain to the Sisters of Providence at St. Mary-of-the>Wooda College. Terre Haute, Ind., died on April 16 after a long illness. Born in Ireland, Father Dwyer came to- this country at the age of 10. Ordained in 1904, he had held pastorates in various Indiana cities before he became chaplain of St. Mary-of­the Woods in 1934. 
Rt. Rer. Hsgr. John T. O'ConneO. LLJ>. '06, rector of the Cathedral of St. Francis de Sales in Toledo, Ohio, and vicar-general of the Toledo diocese, died recently, after a full life of excep­tional accomplishment in the service of the Church. 
Another honorary alumnus of notable zeal and accomplishment, Rt. Rer. Hsgr. GOtert P. Jen­nings. 84 years old. LL.D. '08, died on April 17, just a few days before he, with other alumni priests of the Cleveland archdiocese, was to have been especially honored by the Cleveland Notre Dame Club at its Universal Notre Dame Night dinner on April 21. Msgr. Jennings waa the founder and only pastor of St. Agnes Church In Cleveland. He was one of the 19 founders of the Catholic Church Extension Society, of whom only three now remain alive. 
Dr. Michael E. Hurray. A.B. '26, assistant in the Hygiene Department of Harvard University, died in Cambridge, Mass., on April 20. Gradu­ated from the Harvard Medical School, Mike wae on the stall of the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and was a member of the Harvard Club, the Faculty Club of Harvard and of several medical societies. He was buried in Green Bay, Wis. Surviving him are his wife and two small daughters. 
Wa home, while he was at the Univenit^, mm ia Astoria. L. L. N. T. 
The "Bdigioaa Bulletin" of April 21 i^<»t<i the death of Battae J. BaEtr.AJB. 'XI, of Oor-.' vallii^ Ore. Details are lacking; Folknriiis his jeers on the eampui. Gene tauj^t fw e yaer «t the University at Portland. Portland Oie. them took up gmdnate work in entomology and plant pathol-­ogy at the Unlverrity of ifi«*ij-»i and latar at Oregon SUte Cbllege. Comllia. 
Jelui P. Deaa. '40. Hilwaokee. star pole vaaUer for three years, was killed early in the mnrntag of April 6 when the ear which he -was diivias crashed into a railroad overhead support in IGl­wnukee. Evidently John, driving alone, had blleo asleep at the wheel. 
Emplojed in the production department of the Heil Co.. Mihraukee. John had also eoadied foot­ball and basketbaU at St. Bobert's Sdunl. Sbore­wood. Wis., during the past season. Be had been a star athlete in footlmll. basketball and trade at Harqnette Sg h Sdiool. Hilwankeb before en­tering Notre Danke. 
' Surviving John are his parents and two aisteis. The Notre Dame Club of Hilwuakee> with Ber. William A. Carer. Cac . met at the funeral home for the rosary. 
IRie "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Jaaws J. Behad. 'IT. upon the death of his mother; Oaaiel F. Fafcr. '23. upon the death of his father: Oscar E. Gatsa. Jr.. '27. Babh B. Garxa. '28. and MarcsBas Garsa, '31. upon tbe death of tbsr father; Stcyhen B. Plctiawk^ 'U, upon the death of his mother. 
P«rsoMifs 
p. B. 


B«fbr* 1890 in an 
Hew Oiling ha. Bar. J. A. MadTaMn^ « .


1890-99 
SO-Year Reunion 
Class of 1891 
May 30. 31. June 1 



1900-04 
MsBT. Maaike F. GrUHa. 04. of Clevdaad, -was honored when a portrait of him by Anna I^neh was unveiled in the library of the Amerieaa Boa­pital Association. Chicago^ for whidi he baa SRrad as trustee for more Hum 20 years. Mdadgnor Griffin is also vice^resident of the Csfliolie Boa­pital Association. 
OftC 


1905-09 
191 0 '*«'''• ^ Mwlailj. at. UKTM 
1911 
^9U 
student and which he cultivated through his life­Ensign John Patridc Ffrendk. B.S. Phy. Ed. 
Superior Judge J. Flawr Peak was rsesatir s9­
time. '34, an aviator in the Navy, was killed in an air 
pmnted a member of the Bealthwin Tin^pH^i 
crash in Hawaii in late April or eariy May. 
And at the grave in La Porte. Frederic Wile board. Sooth Bend. Also servins on this keaid 

according to word received by Bob Gahill. '34. 
ended his journey as he had begun it — amid 
is Gcetge L. WBiisa. '93. the rites of the Jewish faith, and with the added 
class secretary. Details of the aeddent were lack­ing. John was believed to be the first Notre Dame 
prayers of the President of Notre Dame, with man to die in the present defense preparations. 1913 the friends of his faith, and the friends of his 
mak B. Bajta, €42 tUtd Aw^
1914 
GhaU Viste« Calif oniim. 
Smmm E. SanfOTd, 37S5 Clinton A-ve^ 1915 Benryn, lUbiob. 
From Jim Samford: 
Hie lien's of Major Keith Jones' death 'was a shock to our class. He is the third w-e lost in a six'inonth penod, the others being Mark Duncan, and Joe Pliska. 
Jim Roach is connected with the architectural firm of Nimmons Cass and Wright, 333 N. Mich­isran St.. Chicago. 
News of the class is scarce. I'm hoping that we'll be able to pull more items out of the bag 
•for publication in June and next fall. I'm hoping to work out a new plan to keep us better organ­ized and informed. 
I'm trying to arrange to be on the campus on May 30 and 31 and June 1 to renew the memor­able times we bad a year ago at our 25th reunion. I hope that I'll see some of you. 
1916 TtaMtkr P. GdTln. nn t Tnrt iar. iHdiaaa. 
25-year Reunion 
Qass of 1916 
May 30, 31, June I 
From Tim Galvin: 
I have received a number of responses to the letters sent out, from men who indicate that they will be on hand for the reunion. Tliis list includes Fafter Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., Jacob E. Edcel of Syracuse, N. Y., Joseph F. (Stubby) Flynn, of Rochester, N. Y., Grorer F. Miller, of Racine, Wis., Edwftid J. Bedanan, of New York CSty, C. L (Casey) Ermjcwdd. of Dubuque, Iowa, Ralph J. (Zipper) Latlirop, of New York City, Walter Patrick McCoart. of Akron, Ohio, and Hogfa E. Carroll^ of Hammond, Ind. 
All of the letters express enthusiasm and I be­lieve that we are going to have a good turn-out. 
1. HUMar. S3(l» Fainttont 


1917 Mwmrd 
Bhrd^ Oenlaiid Heixht^ Ohio. 
Dan C«rtis reports that he is hosy at Camp Grant, Bockford, HI., but that his -worlc is about finished and he will be on hand for Commence­ment. He says that his son, Bill, entered Holy Cross Seminary in Sept., 1939, and tliat he is now in the Xovitiate at Rolling Frairie, Ind. 
IQi p  Jiha A. I/Muaer, 901 Lake Shore Dtin,  
•'• O  BKanaba. Hlddcan.  
Ipl Q  Cbicae*  Bader,  tSO  Flaree  Strwt.  

Bob Hin can be reached in care of the Morris Flan Bank, 711 Harket St, San Francisco. 
•'*' ' Aacdea, CalifKida. 
 W. DaSy, 1601 Tetminal Tewar, 


1921 Dm 
OUa 
20-year Reunion 
Class of 1921 May30,3l, June I The Nbtre Dame 'Alumnus 

Up in Muskegon, Midi., Joe Sanfari was Tfr-' cently, without opposition, ^ected to' a aenxicl ­six-year term as circuit judge of MQskegonyCSomif ­ty. His outstanding record in &e offiee' i^dted > wide praise from the-public, the press. and-'tlie Muskegon Bar Association. 
Dan Daffy has poured into th'e.Almimi Offiee a steady stream of letters from'*21ers in leqponae to his announcements on .the 20th anniversary reunion. Here they are, in whole or in i»art: 
Joe Thompson, Cleveland:-. 
^ "Thank you a lot. for your letter of April 14. There is nothing I would rather do than attend the anniversary hut it is going to be impossible for me to get away. . 
Jim Hoxford, of the Central New Yoilc Power Corporation, Syracuse, N. Y.: 
"I was very-glad to hear from you today in regard to the 20th Class Bennion and know that you fellows will all have a fine time. This morn­ing I had an opportunity to discuss it with Lea Kelley and know that I would certainly like to be present, but it is questionable whether or not the family budget will permit, as it was redaeed considerably last, fall when I went oat to the Southern California same. I took the Westward Ho! trip and had a fine time. 
"Only the day before the trip started X made up my mind to go, but as soon as I got on ttie trun I met several friends, including Doc Hsimaam and HoTgan Sheedy. Morgan had a low«r het^ across from me. 
"I* understand that Jake Eckel and some of the boys of the class of 1916 ate planning to go bade for Commencement and you can rest assnred that if I can possibly make it, I will be there. 
"In your letter you have qualified that only thie 'good' golfers may play. I have never been able to get into the so-called category of 'good' solfers and any time I break 100, my game is excQitioQ­ally good. I should like, however, to have the op­portunity to take KtBmy on, on that course.'* 
Joe Humann, M.D., Lakewood, Ohio: 
'"Hianks for your note. I w-iU make pbms to be with the Class of '21 in Jane. "Only something important would keep me avay 
—
 if I should become pregnant myself, for in­stance." 

T..C Kasper, Treasury Department, Aberdeen, 

S.
 Dak.: "Feel that I shall make every effort to be in 


attendance at this reunioiu I only widi that I could be definite. 
"If you — in your 'omnent' portion as bead of our group — are promoting some spedal and ­outstanding event for as. see that yon xmss the word on." 
Bin Allen, Chicago: "Your letter' of April 11 was welcome. I am planning to come to Commencement Friday nii^t. 1 am glad to hear that so many of my fiiiends I have not seen for y^rs vrill be there. Please kt me know if I can be of any further help." Gerald J. Cleacy of Escanaba. Mich.: "If it's homanly possible, I'm goin«r to attend the class reunion in June. I'm looking forward to a grand time and cannot realize that 20 years have slipped l;^ so fast. 
Mrs. Cleary and oar children join me ta send­ing our kindest regards." 
CalUx E. MiHer, of South,Bend, Ind.: 
"YoQ may rest assured that I shall be on hand to participate in bar 20th anniversary' dass x»­-union -to-be held at Notre Dame." -."..­
,A.iL.AhnuM, of Atlanta, Ga.: ' 
•'"i am: fklanning to be at Kotre Dame for oar •- class reunion, the occasion; of coarse, b^ng oar 
",20^1 anniversary. If my plans materialize, I will be there Friday evening to open that bottle of vodlca." 
L. L. Laliy, of Des Moines, Iowa: 
"I wonid certainly like very much to come back for this reunion, but I will have to know the date ' before I can tell you if it will be possible for me 
to make it. 
"WU you have your girl drop me a note telling me what the dates are, and I will answer at once if I can make it to South Bend on those particular dates?" 
Eugene Vanden BOOM, of Kansas Gty, Mo.: "Sorry, will be unable to come, I believe. Will try I" 
Walter A. Rice, South Bend, Ind.: "I certmnly will be glad to attend and meet some of yoa old duffers. However, yoa did not state where we will meet on Friday evening. Of coarse, yoo know some of the old sxrats have long sinee vanished, and we should arrange for a par­ticular time and a definite place, but I suppose all one would have to do would be to stroll through the lobbies of the Oliver, Hoffmann, of I«SaIle Hotels, and no doubt he would bump into one or more of the gang, like. I did last year at the Democratic convention in Chicago. Abont the second day I was there I commenced to think that I was at a class reunion, as I met several of the bid timers." 
F. M. FranciacoTidi of Astoria, Ore.: 
"Naturally, living way out West as I do, I be­lieve you did not have a great deal of hope that I would be able' to attend. I am sorry to say that X can not see my way clear to make arrangements to make the trip this year. I certainly wofdd ap­predate greatly again meeting the class of 1^1. , • , I surely would like to bear what has become of the gang of the 1921 dass that originally came from Cleveland, such as Champion. Kanti; and othera." 
Giles L. Cain, South Bend. Ind.: 
' "I irill not be able to make it Friday evening, bat will be out at school on Saturday afternoon, and will also have Bill Baker there." 
Walter A. Sweeney, South Bend, Ind.: 
"By all means, Danny, count me in for the three-day aesaon. .. . It just seems like yesterday that we spread out on the lawn in foont of the old IAW Building: Ham, 20 years have come and gcme! . . . the old rusty mikes which surely need a work out Inr now. I mifi^t even bring them oat, D«nny, for a try at that old last mile. I can hear EodE sayinff now, 'Only 23 more. Hickory, only 28.'" 
Hateld S. Foley, 1204 Standard Bank Building, Vancouver, B. C : 
"If possible I will be back there, bat it doesn't lock too encouraging right now. I would like very much to see you and some of the other Swedish gentlemoi whose names I recall very vividly. I think Norm Barry is the only one I have seen sinee 1921. I did have a letter from Joe Brandy here reeratly. Some time in the near future I can tdl you whether it will be possible to be there or not." 
Charles F. Davis, Oswego, N. T.: 'I t would please me to no -end to have the op­portunity of attending tMa 2Qth-year ansuversary Commencement, renewing the cdd acquaintances, and having; here and there, a diort libation with my old fr^ds. I will most certainly try to be there. It all depends on how things are worldng out at this end whether I can make it or not." 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
W. E. Foley, Indianapolis. Ind.: 

"l wrote the boys on the list you gave me and John Hahler tells tne he esEpecta to be back to the class reunion, if possible. Also Joe Heimann says he is planning on beina; there and asks in his letter if I have had any contact with Charlie HorriaoB. I haven't heard from Charlie since we sot out of school, but if you have his address, you might give it to Joe, although he is in your metropolitan area and may have already asked you the same question. 
"Cy Kasper writes that there is only a bare 

possibility of his getting bade" Joseph L. Tinmann, Toledo, Ohio: "Many thanks for your letter of April 14. As I 
was doing a little salt water fishing in Florida, and returned only the latter part of last week, I did not answer your letter sooner. 
"What you outlined therein appeals very much and I am going to plan on being there. The only obstacle which I can see at this time is that we are at present negotiating & new labor contract here with the union, and I do want that consum­mated before I leave again. 
"Regarding my being a good golfer, — I think those days are over. At one time I did dip into the low figures but as I have neglected my game I am now with the rest. However, I would like to play golf with some of the boys, and perhaps they would get a thrill out of playing with me as I play from the port side and do things rather unorthodox.'* 
Bill Foley, first Bancredit Cormration. Electric Building, Indianapolis: 
"Though it has taken me 20 years to do it, I'm going to be among those present. Charlie Davis can be addressed, in care of Brown-Davis. Inc., Oswego. N. Y. I understand he's in business. there with his brother-in-law. ]^ven*t seen him since he gave up his orchestra in New "York several years ago. 
"Have you Jndy Shanahan on your list? If not, . suggest yon address Dr. C- J. Shanahan, Clyde, Ohio, and urge him to come." George Witteried, Dittman & Company, 125 N. Union Ave., Chicago: 
"You have had a soft time with your column for quite sometime, but you got to put on that 'Greg Rice* finish now and round up the old gang for Commencement. 
"A year or' so ago, things i>erked up and qmte a few of the boys came to life. Jodc Mooney, Bfemphis, should be on deck this year. Joe Brandy will not have to worry about the National Guard in Ogdensburg. Norm Barry will lace his shoes for the occasion. Red Morgan will be on the job. We all look for Bill Fitzgerald, and Frank Congh­lin should do everything in his power to locate the one-armed fireman's daughter. What about Clyde Walsh from Campus, HI., O. B. O'Brien, DeCour­
wey7 
"Jade Dempsey is public administrator in Cook County. Ardi Ward Is a busy man, but could be induced to celebrate the occasion. I. am in Chicago all the time and, with a few exceptions, never see any of the old gang. Don't know where they hide. Sometimes I think I am to blame. 
"Joe Hagg, Alden OuAdt and Arch Duncan arc about town, but I haven't run into them or if I did (it's been so long,) maybe I £dn't know them. Hope this will get a pe ^ out of everybody and, if at all possible, they should make the class reunion.*' 
Press-time bulletin: Bill l^wkw, Martinsville, Va. — Probably can't attend because of presdng work in doPont construction division. Al Cuk ^ General Outdoor Advertising, N. Y. C. ^-~ Will be on deck. 
1922 ^*"*^ ^^^^ ^ ^*^ ATWM* BOtta. 
192 3 ^*^ ^ CutaMT* U7 SMth Am. H«v jQ^d '• P-Hayvh Ml:7th Am. ; UlC I TA" t New York City. 
John P. Hnriey. IMBBrMkU* 

1925 
ToMo, Ohio. 

William E. Voor, '25, South Bend attorney and real estate man, was recently appointed'duurman by Mayor Jesse I. Favey of the federal honing authority for the South Bend ares­
1926 JuM* A. BnuB. UT IT. DnuWn St. 
IS-Year Reimion Oass of 1926 May30, 31, June I 

Frcm Jim Ronan: 
Well, Dookr. it looks as thoagh the class of 1926 will be on band en masse to celebrate' the ftfteentb anniversary of our Commencement.'? I promised to ^ve you the available data as of May 1. so cast a glance at the loUomng statistics and you'll get a slight idea that a very pleasant week-end is in store on Hay 30 and 31 and Jane 1­
The following replied that they have made defi­nite plans to attend: Earl J. Antoine, Jo* Baiky. Bod Barr, Frank Bon. Claode Cacson. KcT. Ber^ nard CongUin, Dr. B. D. ConcUin. Pkfl Dw,^ van. Bill Dooley, Ray Onrst, Herk Enert, Jaioi Endres. Rex Enright, PanI Fkminr. Jobn Galia­(her. Rev. Leo Gorman. C.S.C., Jin Qmii, Vin'ee Gonlet. Irving Harwidu 
Rev. Howard Kenna, CS-C. M Kirib C A. LaFoUette, EI Mahoney. Ben Mahinlt. Chaifci Mason, Charles Margoet, Gerry McGinley* Jae ­Navarre, Roger Nolan, George OlJay, Daa O'Neill, Denni* O'Neill. Joe Rigali. Jim Pcanm. Jim Ronan, John Ryan, Carl ScfaaeCer, Jae Skea. Wade Sullivan, Dr. James K. Stack. Rer. Jaaeph . Toomey. John O'Hem Taohy, John Vignoa, Sey­mour Weisberger. Vic Yawman. 
Dooley has promised to contact Rady Goepfcich and John O'Donnell in the. hope, of encouraging .their attendance. Mahoney will attempt to bring Joe Sexton with him. Bay Darst will encourage Bob Doran and Ed Rcaume. McGinley thinks .that a little prompting will insure the presence of Urb Simon. Eggert thinks his fellow coalman, Andy Conlin, will make the trip. John Gallagher. who says he is a "contact man" by profesuon, shouldn't have much trouble selling Chad Meoney and Jim Gleason. Dan O'Neill will attempt to round up Easterners, Ed Doggan, Tom FarrelL Larry Keefe, Tom Sheridan, Al VeUa and B. K. Wingerter. Rag Nolan is sure of tJurley Kargaet and hopes to get a line on Paal SfceOey. 
A sizeable group are "hoping." The following are anxious to be on deck, but will let us know definitely at a biter date: Fred dements. Maarice Cooghlin. Ed Crowe, Hartdd Klein. Les Lovicr. PanI IHiUer. Haarice McEUigott. Al Nachtegal. Iz Probst. Joe Qninlan. Art Sader and Joha Sweeney. 
William "Jack" Reardon. the Detroit barrister, will be unable to make it. So will Jae Badk Brother Stanislaus. C.S.C., now the principal at Holy Trinity High School in Chicago, will be mighty busy that week-end herding his 243 dxarses through the school picnic and preparins his final exams. Dr. George Dolnuge regrets the necessity of making a. trip to the West Coast about the same time. Joe Braossard. busy with hia rice busi­ness down there in Beaumont. Texas, cannot make it either. Jim Haher, in New York handling ex­port sales of industrial equipment, ia a pretty busy lad these days. too. Ed Hanaa, now one of those "Wall Street Attorneys" we heard ao nodi about last November, cannot come himselt bat rqwrts that Dae Gcbaa is rounding up a crowd 
to make the trip on the "Pathfinder." 
Ed JtMattnOt, now in the antoooiule hmin f in Jacksonville. IlL. will be thinking of us at a distance. J. E. "Ben" Beame aaya that "defcoae work is pressing" at the Ingersoll-RaAd Cniwpany. where be is engaged as a medianieal engineer. JaaMs B. "Bob" Graham "expects to be an india­pensable but useless fixture in the waiting room of the maternity hospital about that time." Good lock. Bob. Narfc Kavaaaagh is way out there in Portland, Ore., wrestling with his law books and hoping that an oataide dianee will allow him to make South Bend by Decoration Day. Ait KBse, Forest Swarta and Laa St. Jaha likewise answer with regret. Leo^ by the way, is the.owner and c^eratbr of an automobile agency in 'Ampa, Fla., and extends a cordial invitaUon to any of the boys whose business or pleasure may take him to that part of the sunny South. Tab that on* for next winter! And if you happen to be motoring throu^ the Adirondacks this summer, stcv in and see Pat CoUiiis, restaurant and resort pn^ri­etor at Bhie Mountain Lake. N. T. Pat saya the resort season opens May 30, so he'll have to stay home and welcome the customers. 
The questionnaires brought to light some mighty 

interesting facts, enough material for several col­umns of class notes after the excitement of the reunion is over. A great deal of interest is being taken in the report concerning the "family men." At this stage in the proceedings. Bd Crawe is leading the field with his report of a family of six children (five boys and a girl). We're anxiously waiting a return from brother Clem Crowe, who ' at last reports was doiQg even better. Jae Navarre, Jae Bmaasaid and Jae RigaB are tied for second place with .five entries apieee. Must be something to that name, "Joe." Incidentally,' the latest Rigali addition is little Miss Eleanor Loniae^ who arrived only a few weeks ago to make tliiwg. in­teresting for her four brothers. John Taahy offi­ciated as.godfather at the young lady's baptism. More of these family statistics later when all of 
the precincts have been he^ird from. -­
-We-were"shocked to hear of the untimely death of Mike Manay on April 22 in Boston; Well on his way to a brilliant career in medicine; too. ac­cording to the Boston newspaper obitnaiy notice forwarded' by Dr. Maarice McElBgatt; Mike is survived by his widow and two children.'Our sin­cere'sympathy is extended'to the bereaved family. 
According to the information at hand 21 mem­bers of the class of I9ZS'have been taken in death since we started in '22.' We hope to have our Re­union Mass on Sunday. June 1. offered for them. 
To those members of the class who have not yet returned the questionnaire vre say "hurry up f A very pleasant week-end is in sight. A big three days all around, as the foregoing notes (and.thcr are only the early returns) indicate. Emphasis for '26 is on the class luncheon in the Dining Hall on Saturday. June 1. hut the Commencement pro­gram, printed elsewhere in this issue, holds some rare treats. See you soon! 
P.S. Be sure to invite back, when you see them, those members of the class who didn't finidi -with us and who. consequently, for the most part don't receive the ."Ahunnna" or other Alumni Office mail. Non-graduates as well as graduates, are welcome. 
mie following is the list of the members of the class: Norkin Archart; Sidwy Eder. dem EnUsr, Oswall Genlcaae. CayM Hattea, Alphaue laly. MJ^ '26. G—rgm F. Kiag, Dale KOau, Jehn L. Lavdk^ WJSkmt Me-Ebay, Manice McNalty, Richard Heyer. Bakot 
J. Hayaikaa, Bekert «, Maipky, Mkhad K. Ibr^ tay, Jaha A. PncdL Edward Bawley, JaA SpO-UM , Charles S,itaser. Jaawa E. "Gemi" SaB­vaa. Dsaald Tramkfcy, 
Then there are the '26 men for vriiom we don't have current addressea. 'Will anybody who knowa the whereabouts of any of them natilj the Alum­ni O^oe or me pronto. They are: Joseph S. Boje­wics; Edauid Barke, Anthony Cavalle. Lester J. Clarke, Carson Dalton., Fred Da^'is, Francis Esdi, Dwiclit Field, Tliomas Fitzgrerald, Charies Gninon, Jowph Harrey, Victor Lahedz, Gerry Left, John 
B. Lcmhan, Wilfiam Minter, Francis Olscn. Leo PaBandc, WiUirnm Reran, Emmet Rohwer, Joseph 
J. Sdiamer, Jim Silver, DaWd Stanton, Clement Sweeney, Gerald Timimns, Alton C Velia. John 
H. Warner, Dr. Charles Wood. 
John Endres, long lost with regard to "Alum­nus" news, is auditor of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. As you'll notice, he's another one of many who will be back for that reunion. 
%Q9^ Joseph H. Roland. Field House. Purdue • *" ' University, West Lafayette, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: Since last you heard from this errant scrivener, tempus has fugited, indeed! Now, the scrivener can be addressed at the Held House, Purdue Uni­versity. West Lafayette, Ind. Here, in company with Mai Elward, *16. athletic director, and foot­ball coach, your class sec* is now laboring in the pigskin vineyards, and will be glad to receive any traveling sons of *27. 
The sec attended the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting of the Wabash Valley club, there meeting up with such familiars as Bob Alohlman, '27. now located in Lafayette; Joe Doran, of "Juggler" fame: Fran Hoore; Panl Kennedy, the old miler and track-captain; Emmet Fcrgnson. now dty judge in Lafayette; John Hanley, Charles Hordock. Vint Vaagfan and others who probably belong in other columns of this section. Still, they and their fellow-members of the Wabash Valley club were welcome sights, indeed, to the Scrivener. 

As for strictly '27 news, it's thin — lack of correspondence. Joe Gartland reported from Bos­ton, by mail — everything under control in the insurance business there. Tom Grady, ex. *27, has visited Ye Scriv several times here at Purdue, which Tom includes in his Mimeograph territory out of Indianapolis. Dan Hoore has been heard from indirectly; understand his personnel work St the Hawthorne plant of the Chicago Western Electric goes well. And Jim Vaughn .of the Iiaf­ayette's Vaughn's, malrcs things move in his monu­ment works here — of which Jeems is the head. Joe Benda, as you probably have heard, has moved his residence back to his old stamping grounds in Minnesota — St. John's University, at Collegevllle. where he becomes head football and basketball coach on a long-term contract. Tom Rodcelshans (and if that isn't spelled right. write roe. Tom!) we check up on through the medium of one of his Red Cab drivers in Indian­apolis, recently — Tom just runs the outfit, that's all .. . so if you're ever in Indianapolis, tell the Red Cab driver you know the president: then pay I 
On a recent trip to New Orleans, we stopped in Alexandria, La., to call on Frank David -^ if he reads this, he'll know we tried anyhow. We were told Mr. David was in New Orleans, pre­paring for a trip to South America. 
In St. Louis, we ran across Bert Coughlin, now Dr. Coughlin. with a right smart practice. 
And that's about the extent of things, neigh­bors. Be seeing you I 
Clayton G. Lcronx, chairman of the placement committee of the Notre Dame club of Cleveland, now has his law ofHces in the Union Commerce Bldg. on Euclid Avenue at East 9th. 
htmSm P. BBcid«r, IBox 124, Kmtn DmmK

1928 
From Loa Baddey: I was very glad to receive a letter from Art Dcndifield from Porto Alegre, in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, where is with the southern ^vision of the Singer Sewins Miriiiiw Company. Art mentioned that there are two other E^otre Dame men in South America with Sinffer, Stanley Rensbcrver, of Mishawaka. who it in Sin ­Paulo, and Chazlea Litty, of Syracuse, now in Buenos Aires. You will note in the engageiuent column that Art is to be married in June to Karen Olsen. of Copenhagen. I can speak.from experience in commending you. Art, on your choice of a Swede. 
John.Igoe forwarded a letter from BotSs Crow­ley which arrived too late to be indoded in John's column last month. Botts wrote firom Tampa. Fla.. where he was making the annoal trip through the baseball training cami>s for P. Goldsnuth Sons. Inc., Cincinnati. Ohio Botts is in charge of the professional baseball department. Botts passed on the following information on the Cincinnati fellows for which we are sratefoL Joe Morrissey is with the King Mfg. Co. He has three children. Joe Kinncary is practicing law. Botts said that he saw Jim Harrigan in Sehna, Ala., and Gil Kirwin in Jackson, Bliss. Gil Is located in Atlanta. John Hsrwood is an architect in Nashville with Emroens Woolwine, American Bank & Trust Co. 
I had an announcement from Vinee Wabh, 119 Grant St., Monticello. 111., informing me of the arrival of Tliomas Harry on March 12. Gongrato­lations. Vince and Kaley. 
Without further ado. let me give yon some fine material from our two guest writers. Art Stenlas and Larry Wingertcr. 
Art writes from 1177 Edison Ave.. Detnut. as follows: 

'*I*m going to leave the teaching profestion and start a collection agency. Vlnce Carey was the one who suggested it. He said that my letter pleading for news was too. too touching to £s ­regard. and as I received replies from half the number of fellows I wrote to, I'm a bit sold on the field myself. Judging from comments in the 'Alumnus.* getting news from classmates is more difficult than whittling down the bad debts fijcure. 
"Vince was the first to answer me, so let's start oS on the Carey Report. In a sentence that must go down as a model for future autohiogn^­ical notes, he says, 'I have one wife, two boys, 29 teeth, and most of my hair.' What more sat­isfying report could one give, esi>eaally when Vince adds that he is now secretary and assistant treasurer of the H. C. Goodman Company, dice manufacturers in Columbus. Ohio. But he was a bit shy on news about other *28 men. 
"Bob Evans wrote me from Vlckshurg, Hiss., where he is still connected vrith bis father in the building materials business. He hits a mdan­choly note in bringing out the fact that althon^ Vicksburg was well represented at N. D., he is now the sole '28 man around those parts. Jfaa Parker is working in Schenectady. Sam SoMaaa i3 now a doctor with a good practice in New Or­leans, and Jim Canizaro has made himself a very successful architect in Jackson, Miss. Bob also mentioned many other Notre Dame men not of our class, among them, Lawrence Hennessey, ^ o was president of the '27 class and who is now in the insurance business in 'Vicksburg. 
"Bill Dwyet's reply came from Milwaukee where be is employed in the advertising department of the Line Material Company. He claims to have worked at various advertising jobs in Oiicago for some seven years before heading for Milwau­kee, 'learning a little, earning a little less*: hot he married a Chicago girl in 1937, so he came oot way ahead of the game in spite of the littie learn­ing and teaming. He now has a 14-month-old daughter who is his favorite subject of conversa­tion, so if Pete Gallagher wants a letter from Bill, let him drop Papa Dwyer a card asking aboot the youngest member of the family. Bill claims that he doesn't bump into many '28 men aroond bis Wisconsin anarters, but he does get down to Qucago x>eriodicalIy for a bull sesmon with som« of the boys. Like all N. D. men who vi^t Chicago, Bill met Georre Coair on his last trip to the Bi^ City. George remkins the I^Salle Street operator and has also taken on the role of a stove mano' factorer. Bob Vodewede, '29, Lany O'Connor^ *30, and Jim Allan of onr class helped George and Bill make up a Notre Dame meeting. Jim is re­ported as being as hefty as ever and an attorney for the Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Company. He's married and the father of a two-and-a-half year old son. I wonder if the evening's discussion got around to the relative merits of Bill's dau^­ter and Jim's son. 
"My old roommate of Day Dog days. John Leit­nnger, came through with a full report of him­self. He is still located in Clearfield, Pa., and, with his brother, shares the duties of keeping Leitzinger Brothers' Department Store the 'big­gest store in Central Pennsylvania.* I have kept op with John fairly well throu^out the years because I've made Clearfield my over-nig^t stop in driving to New York , and I can add a point or two to his report I have long backed him in the 'head-of-the-family* championship because an­nually my visit to Clearfield brought me an in­trodnction to another Leitringer. John is now the fother of three boys and two girls and he is now on the lookout for some finance company willing to help him get the 'crowd' through Notre Dame and S t Mary's. Has the University started giving family rates yet Lou 7 John also reported on Phil Lytle, that up and coming public utilities man who carries a new title with the Pennsyl­vania IHeetric Company every time I see him. John claims that Phil now practically runs the outfit hat in spite of his vocational progress, he still carries the one great fault that was his while at Notre Dame — PIuI thinks that the Pittsburg Pirates will win the pennant John adds that Phil snffers agonies dtiring football season, is still a H^rablican. goes to Isie Mass on Sundays, and 
visits the Lut^nger family after the children have gone to bed.* Tes, utilities magnate I^Ie is still a hadielor. John, like Bill Dwyer, wants to know what happened to John Patilcic Bbitphy, of Pine Bluff fame. Can't yon get line of John Pat? 
"But mention of Phil Lytle brings op the bach­elor section of the '28 bunch. Tom Ibbon wrote me a three-page letter, half of which was a very thorough presentation of the state of affairs in the world today. Tom started his reflective thinking after mentioning that he was expecting to leave for his year in the Army within the very near fntnre. And while we're on that subject PIl bet I ree»ved the lowest order number of any *28 man. Knmber 41. Can yon beat it? But I managed to get 3A rating, so I may be around these parts fat some time ye t Besides the futility of war. Tata wonders about the futility of giving news to the 'Alumnus* because he chums that last year he supplied Aagie Grams with a full report and then a month later read where Louie Norman asked if anybody had heard anything about Tom Bbhon. Tom left the brokerage business in 1936 for the insurance field and is now a special agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company in S t Fan], and. judging from his reports, he must faomp into quite a few of onr class members. 
'Vah Fogerty is r^wrted to be at St Thomas,' Lee Satiiff connected with some hydrant outfit in Minneapolis. Jade Doyle in the men*s clothing hu^ness in the Twin Cities, and Frank Hayer still with the Northern States Power Company in St. Paul. Tom Tranghber is seen around once In a while when his job with the Internal Kevenne D^mrtment permits, and Denny Daly is practic­ing law in S t Paul. In his letter. Tom asks the whereabouts of George Crongeyer. I wish that I could help out but my letter to George was neither returned nor answered. Can somd>ody get 8 line on George? I could go on at length with comments on Tom's letter because he really 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
poured it out. Hiere was everything in it fcom the report of Tom's long distance call to Ed- He^ Keown last Christmas to an 'hello* to Louie Nor­
•u n and a promised answer to Lou's letter be­fore Tom goes into the Army. 
"George Blartin wrote me from Altoona and told me that the '28 men that he has met since getting out of sdiool are few. He is not yet mar­ried, claiming that baseball and football interests have prevented him from getting down to serious thinking about dependents. He's connected with the local Bureau of Employment and Unemploy­ment Compensation. 
"Lou, I've run on like Tennyson's brook and should stop, but I'm afraid that a few of the boys will get me so I sign off without giving out a bit of news myself. I'll never live down the name of 
•Chiseler Stenius' if I crawl out with them doing all the work. I tried to do my part by getting to see Louie Norman and Guy Loranger* who are both here in Detroit. I went up to GMAG offices to see Lou twice, but each time I had only a fe w minutes to spare, and Lou was busy. And he's in one of those offices that remind you of the field house down at Notre Dame. You get so far and no farther unless the battery of stenographers and secretaries happen to have a weak moment. Any­way, I saw Lou at the other end of the room; many telephones on his desk, official documents being brought to him for signing, and people standing three deep in front of him. He's the same cool and calm Lou, however; perhaps a bit slower than he used to be on the tennis court, but othenvise unchanged. My attempt to contact Guy was also a failure. As a successful doctor, Guy is on the go most of the time. A telephone call always finds him busy or out. 
"As to myself. I'm still with the Board of Education here in Detroit as a counselor in our city's technical high school and as a special in­structor at Wayne University. At the present time I am commuting between Detroit and Columbus where I am finishing up on my doctor's degree at Ohio State. I hope that the Ph.D. will be com­ing my way at the end of the summer session. I spent seven months in Europe during 1939 getting material for my dissertation. I visited ten coun­tries studying the educational uses of radio. land­ed back in New York iust a couple of weeks be­fore the war began, and then watched my com­parative study of European countries turn into an investigation of Greater Germany even before 
~ I could get it down on paper. I saw Walter Layne when I got back from abroad and found him to be editor of a couple of magazines put out by Del Publishing Company or some such concern. 
"Frande Strohm is my often seen '28er. He's a grand fellow; practically putting me through the University with his contributions during the week-ends when we play dime-a-hole golf. He's still with the gasoline tax division for the state of Ohio, still on the run from any girl who threatens to get serious, and still the miniature of Big Mac that he always was. Joe HcNamara was up to see me a few weeks ago when he came to Detroit to get some material for a suit against the Ford Motor Company that the state of Indiana was hoping to win. And with Mac in charge of the case. I'd say the chances of Ford were small. ^ e boys's too good. He's won not less than four cases which he has pleaded before the United States Supreme Court. I say *not less' because he told me that he had two more cases coming up in the near future, and I suppose that the count may be six in his favor by this time. 
"One N. D. man that I see quite often but who was not a member of our class is Van Wallace, who lives in Mt. Clemens, about 30 miles from Detroit He is still the same Van, still cheerful, still hopeful. At the present time he is in St. Joseph's hospital with a broken leg which resulted from a massage treatment he had some months ago. but doctors are of the opinion that the leg will knit and permit Van to be the regular foot­ball fan that he has been for the past few years since the Notre Dame Club here in Detroit gavs him a si>ecially built Chevrolet. He's one boy who gets around. 
"But that the news. Lou. A bit ponderous in presentation, to be sure, but maybe it'will serve the purpose. Vass on an 'hello' to any of the bunch yon may happen to meet." 
It's a gala day when you can persuade an engi­neer to put down his sUde<rule and write a new ^ letter. Hence, information about the wandering electrical engineers of '28 has been conspieoons by its absence in these here columns. 
This month, we asked Larry Wingcrtcr to act as one of the guest columnists, and to do what he could to entice the busy EE's away from thdr logarithmic tables long enough to contribute some data on what's what and who's who. Larry is director of promotion and publicity for the American Transit Association, 292 Hadiaon Ave­nue, New York City. 
Some of the boys, Larry -says, have strayed away from th« strict technical lines laid down by Dr. Capare — while others are making fine progress in various fields of engineering. 
"Still strictly an en^neer and very close to Notre Dame is Joseph A. Braansdorf, who is a distribution engineer for the Indiana ft Michigan Electric Company right there in South Bend, Joe's work includes laying out plans and jobs for the extension and rebuilding of overhead and under­ground power lines. 
"Before finally winding up in South Bend. Joe worked for the New York Telephone Company. United States Alimsinum, and Chevrolet Motor. A 16-months-oId boy named Joey (but never called Junior) adds sunshine to the Braunsdorf household. 
"Mrs. Braunsdorf is the former Margaret Berry. sister of our old classmate, Jimmy Berry. Al­though Margaret is a redhead like her brother, peace usually reigns supreme at home. Ibe Braunsdorfs were married in 1931 in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame­
"Jim Berry, by the way. is in charge of the full management of his father's farm. R. F. D. No. 2. Stanley, N. Y. 
"After graduation. Jim worked for the North­east Electric Company in Rochester, N. Y. Upon the death of his father, he took to tilling the smi and has been there ever since. Mrs. Berry is the former Margaret Hansen, a South Bend ^rL The knot was tied in St. Joseph's Church in 1930. Three children, a girl and two boys, have arrived by bless the Berry home. On the side. Jim is cashing in on his musical talents by leading and playing in a nifty local orchestra. 
"Ever since graduation. Rass Collins has been with the New York Telephone Company.* He is now an outside p!ant engineer for the company at Hempstead. Long Island. His home address is 4 Edward St., Baldwin, L. I. Russ writes that his spare time is devoted to getting young BCichael AVIlliam Collins, a toddler not quite a year old. in shape for the N. D. football squad of 1960. 
''George Conner writes that although he is now toiling happily for 'The Sportsman Pilot' maga­zine at 515 Madison Ave.. New York City, he may be digging trenches soon for Uncle Sam. George says that he is uncertain about the state of his health, having just gone through a rigorous exam­ination by Army physicians, who took great de­light in shooting him with a varied of fluids and vaccines. 
"Straying for the moment from the puie elec­trical end of this column. George informs us that Louie. Carr, a brother mechanical engineer of '28. is with Coast Cities Coaches, Inc., at Avon-by-the-Sea, N. J. Another M.E., Art Scfcdbcrie. is engaged in defense design activities for the 
Wri^it Aeronautical Corporation at Pitcraaa; 
N.J. *T:hoat of us who are thinking of vamtioBing in Mexiea tUa year shoold make m. note of tK« address of 'StaUgh B. Gana. It is Oeste Jnai«E 200. SahiOo, Coabnila. Mexico. Ralph gets the imof­fidal prize for having engaged in the greateat variety of enterprises nnce gradoation IS jcsn ago. His interests have included: cJeetrical «i ^ ueering, life insurance sales, ahnninum wa n sales, forming and the paper bmdncsa. The 
Gaizaa have two lovely diildrm, Marin Angifficn aged threes and Rodolfo Jose, aged cme. 
"Ralph reports that his older brothv, Oscar. 

an E.E. of '27, is managing a targe bazdwaze firm 
in Leon, Gnanajnato^ Mexico. RahA's other 
brother, Ibrcelino^ who gradoated from N. D. 
after *28, is connected with a fertiliser nuuni­
facturing concern in Torreon, Coahwla, Kexieo. 
"There is nothing I have'craved more thann 

trip to Notre Dame,* Ralph says. 1 know there 
are many new buildings; possibly I shall not find 
many of oar old professors, but every time I think 
ot Notre Dame, something thrills ine inside.* 
'^Jee Heran is another classmate who has been with one company ever since graduation. General XSectrie. 'After sanding eomnnttators,. etc," Joe informs us. *I became a design engineer on in-~ duction motors. Before I had a diauee to do too much damage, I transferred to the small motor department here at Fort Wayne in 1932. Before leaving, I induced my wife, Betty, to come along, and we now have a son, Tommie. aged 8.* Joe is now doing engineering and selling on the small motors used in the operation and control of ur­planes. He reports that it ia most intererting work, with something new happening every day. 
"Joe fcmdiy remembers the day when your guest columnist. Larry Wingerter, asked Professor Hafel vthea the hnntilng season opened on syn­chronous motors. Another high spot that he can­not forget is the day Jim Berry got hung up en the power lines in the laboratory. It was posi­tively shocking. 
''Occadonally Joe bumps into Frank Metxailer and W. y . GlUea at the G.E. Works. Inddentally. Joe Koran's address is 4333 Drory Lane, Fort Wayn^ fod. 
"While, brothers like George Conner have been worrying about Army doctors puncturing tbem with vacdnes. classmate Jolm Larsca has been on the sending end. John is city sanitarian for the Department of Health at Geneva, N. T., and most of his time latdy has been taken up in helping with the physical examinations of poten­tial draftees. Ibis, he reports, is voluntary work, done in the evening in addition to his normal duties. 
"John asks what has happened to Amlknm O'CeaneB. He remarks that Ambrose's name does not seem to be connected with the Post OfHee Department any more. 
**Bemle Leeller has been asaodated with the Ibidiana Bell Telephone Company ever since Sq»t.« 1928. He is now engaged in equipmrat engineer­ing activities. Mrs. Loeffler is the former EUxa­beth Loetzeridi ot Evansnlle, Ind. Dang^ter Jo Ann, aged 6. makes a threesome out of the Loef­fler family. Classmate Jmkm X. GSaakm was last heard from also in Indianapolis at 1512 Norlli Meridian St. 
"Comrade f^ank BL Galardy is likewise in the commonications field, and is vice^residrat and general manager of the Automatic Tdephone In­stallation and Maintenance Company, 62 West 47th St., New Yoric Gty. 
" 'National Defense is very nmdi onr theme these days.* F^ank writes. 'Am beginning to fed as thoofi^ I am right in the aerviee, what villi the nomerons trips to Navy Tarda, other ship­yards, navy and army bases, arsenals, tndning bases* located along the Atlantic seaboard and tfaroushout the eastern United States.' 
"Captain Tbm Noon, until recently commanding officer of the Hanne Reserve Aviation Corps^ Floyd Bennett Pldd. Brooklyn, is now located at Qnantico, Va. Tom is very much the family man with three good candidates for the 1960 football sqnad. Tom was in New York City a month ago on his way to Gnantanamo Bay, Gaba. It is ex­pected that his stay there will be only for a short time, after -niiich his destination is where-ever Uncle Sam needs him most to train and lead the Marine Air Forces. 
"Tom is quite an aviator (elevation to the rank of Maior is expected very .shortly) and he has imparted his enthusiasm to a number of recent 
K. D, eradoates with the result that there are 
N. D. trainees at Floyd Bennett Held, Quantico. and Fensacola, Fla. About a year ago. Tom Ncmn ran into Jade Don<Ane in Kansas CHty, Jack is located there, a bachelor and pursuinjf the for­tunes of the electrical field. 
"Not long ago. Charles 'Bud* Topping was host at his home in Forest Hills, Long Island, to Dick Greene, Mrs. Greene and Frank Galardy. Dick is v,^th the Social Security Board in Syracuse, 
N. Y., and according to latest reports, is rfill his same chipper self. Bad Topping's address, by the 
, ways, is the Johns-Mansville Company, 40th Street and Hadlson Avenue, New York City. 
"Another '28er with the General Electric Com­pany is Francis L. Dnqnette, who is in the meter sales department in New York City. Bos home address is 30 Ifaple Ave., Tnckahoe, N. Y." 
Iti s just about winds up the reviews of the electrical engineers of '28. Guest Columnist Larry Wingerter did not get any news about Joe Norton, Leo Sdmltlwis, Ed Thoman, or Jim Parker, No reveard will be paid, but information about their whereabouts and progress will be appreciated, he says. 
Larry, by the way, is 'the only one of the gang to concentrate in the city street car and bus field. Since graduation he has worked for "Westinghouse in East Pittsburgh, the Gary, Ind., Railways, the Des Hoines Railway Company, the Indianapolis Railways and finally the American Transit Asso­ciation, national trade association of the city passenger transportation field. Mrs. "Wingerter is the former Mary Margaret Willman of Indian­apolis. Hiey were married at the Log Chapel at Notre Dame in 1937. 
Thank you. Art Stcnios and Larry Wingerter. for making pos^ble to wind ^p ova 13th year of '28 column with one of the best yet turned out. 
I am asking Geotre Coary to give us his annual report next month concerning the *28 men who are back for graduatiom We hope to see a large number present so we can make plans for our 15th anniversary reunion in 1943 which, inciden­tally, will be the closing of the centennial year at Nctre Dame. 
Joe Gtiffin has hopped from Connecticut to Colorado with the Century Indemnity Co. His latest address is Gas & Electric Bldg.. Denver. 
Bob Gresser is now with the West End State Bonk in Mishawaka, Ind. 
Your class secretary expects to be living with Bill Jones during July and August in Washington, 
D. C, at 3051 Idaho Ave., N. W. 
199 0 ^*"*>^ ^* V^anan. Attorney Gtm­
•'^ ' cna OflMw IiidteaMoHs, biAana. 
109 A '^c'^'i' ^ DMMdn*, SIO RiTwaUa Dr., ITa V MnrT«AGMr. 
193 1 J«fai BMSU. 8S8 K. Colfax ATIMIW 17^ I g0.^ Be^ InAasa. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
lO-Year Reunion Class of 1931 May 30, 31, Jime 1 
From John Bercan: 
With a promised throng of over 200 men foom all parts of the country and three fordgn natSofii in attendance, the stage is definitely set for oor 10-year reunion. Iliroagh the gradonsness of tiie University and Jim Armstrong, Horrissey Hall is (as this is written) tentatively reserved for the gallants of *31. Re^stration will be on Friday. The morning and afternoon viU be left open for informal visits, golf and swinuning. Scores made iu golf will be accepted for the 1931 diam^oo­ship. An adequate trophy will be given the win­ner of the tournament. ISie solf eonunittee also promises other prizes for the various flis^ts. Knss Beanprc, Lany MsUer, Art Bradley and KB Bc4­mond promise a fine reception at the 19tfa bole. 
Friday evening we will gather at the Indiana club, 320 West Jefferson St., South Bend, for oor alumni dinner. Hiis event will highlight the wedc­end's activity and present plans indicate the ap­pearance of a number of our former hall Tectors and professors. Eddie Byan, one of our wittiest personages, will handle the toastmaster*s gavel and call for short addresses from some of the class' outstanding members. Serving on tiie re­ception committee mil be: Frank Leilv* Kotre Dame football coach, chairman; the Rer. dutie s Carey, CS.C., assodate editor of **lhe Ave Maria"; the Rev. C. Boarice Blotsett, of Kewanee. 111.; Tom Conley. John Carroll athletic Erector; Jack Saondeis. Boston laimdiy executive; WBHua Leahy, Chicago sales executive; VenwM B"—Ti Crystal Lake. 111., county attorney; WUUam Sa t liran, Detroit 'Hger catcher; Frank CarideOb Iowa backfield coach; Mayor Clarence DonoTan of Bed­ford, Ind.; Joseph Deeb. Grand Rapids federsl at­torney: Frank HcGrcal, assistant state's attorn^ of Chicago; Tom Cannon* prosecuting attorney of Delaware county, Indiana; Jim Griffin, director of the department of physical education. Chicago public schools; Larry Bbllins. backfield coadi of the University of Florida; Marty Brill, eoadi of Loyola University, Los Angeles; Bert Metacei* Bowman milk official of Chicago; Tom AAe, Loe Angeles oil company advertising executive, and Austin Boyle, New Orleans Associated Press ^vriter. 
Following dinner there will be entertainment, short addresses, music and movies of Notre Dame athletics showing particularly the men of the 1931­class. The entertainment committee will eondst of Jeny Crowley. Ed Hnrray, Fred Bahalmi Charlie Powers, Bus Rich and Chariie Cariiwa* After the short program the evening will be spent informally. An original German band will be oo hand to keep the crowd in a jovial'mood. 
Saturday morning at nine o'clock the class golfers will ag^n vie for the special 1931 trophy as well as for the alumni prizes. Eleven o'doek will see the 1931 Comets meet the 1936 Colts for the interclass championship. We would like to have the men who are softball addicts start eon­ditioning themselves and report to Manager Bah Balfe in good condition. HaslceU Adcew. Bert lla­loney. Frank Kosky and Dan Ecan look like Ihe makings of the starting infield. If the game lasts five innings our class should win, by acclamation if nothing else. Refreshments will follow the ball gume and the gladiators will turn Morrissey-ward for a bit of rest. 
Luncheon will • then be provided in the .dining hall and infomtal gatherings will be served. Tlie baseball game, Notre Dame versus Univemty of California, will be in the afternoon at Gsrtier field. Saturday evening the class will occu^ spe­
cial tables at the almnni banquet. A special effort sfaoold be made to attend this fonction as eelebri­ties will be present, and plana made for alnmnl partiapation in the Ctotennial of the TTidTernty. Following the dinner an informal smoker will be hdd in Morrisscgr hall with a prize given to the best barber shop quartette. 
Sonday morning at 10 o'clock a memorial Mass will be offered for the deceased members of our dass in Morrissey Chapel by the Rev. Booike Metactt of Kewanee. HI. Monogram men will be guests at a spedal hmeheon, and in the afternoon the graduation exercises will take place. 
niat is the program, men, and we urge yon to make every pos^le effort to be present as there will be many on hand you have not seen in the past ten years, and if boys like Tomaqr Ashe of Los Angeles; filaarie Goodeve of Calgary. Manitoba; Loaie Gpdoy. of Havana; Autie Boyle. of New Orleans; Bad Golden, of Anaconda, Mont.; and Alex Mdo, of Vera Cruz, Mexico; plan to at­tend, why can't yon gas up the old buggy, pick np a crowd and be on hand. Ilie opportunity of seeing the large number of your classmates ntay not present itself again for a lifetime. 
We -msh to publicly relate the whereabouts of onr draftees at oor class dinner and send them a message of good cheer, so if the boys in ihe ser­vice will write to the secretary prior to June 1, giving their respective addresses it will be greatly appreciated. Speaking of men in the service. Jade Shivdy was called for a year's active service and was commissioned a lieutenant and is located at Camp Bragg. Harry Ibrdzinski is also a commi»­sioned officer at Great I^kes Naval Station, and Jae 0*Raarke began his term as a reserve ofHoer at Camp Dix. N. J., last month. These men would certainly appreciate a iiote from members of the class. 
Previewing the reunion activities on the campus last month- were, Tom Cannon* who spent the Easter vacation with bis wife's &mily in South Bend; Ben Oakes, sturdy TWA airlines Kntative, and Jokn C. SaffiTsn, stellar skeet shooter and publlsbine house salesman from Day­ton, Ohio. They all expect to retam the latter part of the month. 
Ed Shemn, the Lone Beach. Calif., finance honae manager, postals that a recent baby daugh­ter prohibits his attendance at the reonion. Dr. Ed Drarcs. the Detroit physician, is declaring a three-day holiday to be present. Joiuuiy Doradbd. the newlywed, is brealdng away from the IGssos for the week-end. and expects to fill his Bnick with Walter "Dntch" Bidley, Hed CaHalian and Mart DawUns. all Rochesterites. for the doings. 
Grand Bapids will be represented a hundred per cent when II members of the class trek sonth­ward. Soathem Illinois, under the leadership of Tom Konalian and Frank HeuidcrEer, have wired for some large airy rooms and a low hed for Pa d Giant. Bok DeNeefe. the Mobile. Ala., flash, expects to hitch a ride with the Boyle contingent. Jae Tlwraton, he o£ the black cigar and golden tenor, will be on deck early. The boys of the St. Joseph Valley, including BIynm Henlifield of Goshen, will be present en masse. 
LsRy Kia] and A] Grisanti have assured us that Cleveland' will bring their jug band under the direction of Joe Garin.- The boys of New York City are engaging a chartered bus to bring such notables as, Ed KalMii, Ed Canninglum. Richie Batter, Bad Tady, Art Benen. Jahnny Buiu. Jahuy Faky, Ed Katky, Jobi Lislcki. John Blairfa. Jia WaU, TIM Benltx and Dick Lacy. 
Marty Bitn was married to Miss Barbara Clare Tbam in Los Angeles on April 25. Our heartiest congratolationa and the hope that this happy eonple may be with us the latter part of the month. Jtn y Crawley has brandied oat from his 
•Vartntent to s full grown bonae in Sooth Bend's LaMonte .Tierraee. Jl a Baaea, flie Bonte candy man. ia anxions to renew old jEriendsbips at Com* meneement and wUl be on deck bright and early. Jflhn Bladcirell has been appointed one of the cntectaininrat churmen for the state 'oonven« tion of the Knishts of Columbus in Indianapolis tbia sommer and wishes any stray Knight of the class in the city to call upon him. 

So until Hay 30. adios, and don't forget we will be expecting to see you all in person at the bisr-Sest and best leunion ever. 
Edward J. Hynn is a sopervisins engineer with Canada Dry Ginger Ale. Inc.. Hudson. N. T. His home address is Box No. 41. Claverack, N. Y. 
193 9 Ja»M T. lew. SSt Smtk Jeffenn 
•'^ ^ CUcago, nUnob. 

From Jim Igoe: 
The secretary has been enjoying a fine vacation to recuperate from a physical breakdown in an over-zealons effort to secure information for the "Alumnus." (Slightly exaggerated!) 
During the vacation Terry DiDon. Ray Geiger and Pete Streb obliged with some very fine in­formation. Many thanks, boys. "Hieir letters fol­low: 
From Ray Geiger: "Sorry that I haven't been sending you any news but Uncle Sam is after me and I am sched­uled to be inducted into the Army on April 2. This has been rather hard to take as it is not easy to give up a position for a year. 
"James Walder. of Cario, III., is a . second lieutenant in the quartermaster division at Kelly fleld^ Texas. He was married, incidentally, on Jan. 14. Not much news, is it? — but then it*s an item and each one helps/* 
(All members of the class are requested to re­read last sentence.) , 
From Pete Streb: "Universal Notre Dame Night gives me an idea to report some of the activities of our Notre Dame boys in this locality. Last night we had a very nice dinner, and among the out-of-town boys were Charles Tom WillUmsen, '35. engineer with General Motors. Fraser. Camp and Clem Sexton handled the arrangements. Bill and John Waltz were both conspicuous by their absence. However, they arc building new homes and for that reason could not attend. 
"Last evening our local newspaper carried a picture of Hngh Correll. on air-corp trainee, at Waco. Texas. If Hugh has never been up in the air about Notre Dame. Uncle Sam sure has him up there now in more than one way. 
"I hope it isn't too early to broach the idea of our tenth annual re-union which I intend to make this time. Let this be a reminder that the gang from Serin Sub pledged a re-union while attending the alumni dinner in '32. so take notice. Ike Terry, Claik, Jerry IUedy,.Jim Carmody. my 'lost* roommate Hnrphy, Bemie Heitse, Norb Christman, Paul Host, Harry Moss, and the rest of them whom I cannot recall at the present time. Save your pennies and get ready for the Cen­tennial in 1942. 
**Last December while attending the meeting of County Treasurer's Association of Ohio at Colombos I had a very nice session with Dan and Ja ^ Cannon. Both are very active in the Central Ohio Club. 
"I am still with the county treasurer. I ho];)e anybody pas^ng .through Canton will -look me up. 
P.S. Just remembered — E. Harphy is proud daddy to a new son but he never writes any particulars." 
Terry Dillon's letter: 

Regarding the boys of old '32. it must be that all of them are vital cogs in the works of (inter) 
national defense, because I don't zeeall any of them being in Florida — that is, Miami B—di, which ia the capita! 'F" in Florida — with tiM ex­ception of Joe Bittorf and (Doe) Tim &•••«•• both of Sterling, HI. Their re^wctive wxrca we n with them and the weatherman was n good fd­iow and arranged some fairly deeent weather for their stay. Joe is the pappy of three dandy yoone­sters. and I understand, there will be further good news from Sterting ere long. "He is aiworiatrf with his father who heads the National M^. Co., Sterling. Frcdcridc E. Snite has had a good wfaU ter — what with his daughter really- coming into her own, he and Tessie (Fred's wife) are having many enjoyable hours with 'Pinky/ Tessie has a camera now and is beconung qmte the photog­rapher. 
"As you probably know, the Duke of imndsor called to see Fred the early part of this year. Frederick reports that the Ihike is 1000 per cent. Each Saturday afternoon usually finds Frederick at his special spot either at ffialiah or ^nropical Park. 
As you know Frederick is always doing things for other people, and this winter he helped a young fellow by the name of Steve Ebippmey, who was stricken with infantile paralysis some time ago and was unable finanually to help himself — and he is married and the father of two young­sters. Through Frederick's sponsorship, a benefit party was held at one of the clubs and over $2,500 was raised for this fellow and bis family. A little house was purchased, the family moved in and now that Steve is getting better, things arc rosy for them — and I'm sure no one is hap­pier about it than Fred. 
"Inddentally. Bob Lippert, '32, had much to do with the success of the benefit I just mentioned. Bob.is married and lives in Miami Beach where he carries on a successful insurance business. (He formerly lived in Indianapolis.) 
"As for your correspondent, in between the rains I played some golf — in fact, I tried to sharpen up my game to keep up with you. Fran C , Ed Melchione et al. The rest of the time I had more fun playing with our youngster — she's grown like a weed, is talking, and all those things you know about that makes kids so wonderful." 
Aside to Dr. Henry Asman — Plat Clear tells me you're still going to answer my request for news. Maybe it will rain some Sunday, huh? 
To Private James E. Downs, Troop G, 11th Cavalry, Campo. California: How about a letter describing your horse and life in general? 
John **Hack" Wilson^ C.S.G.. will be ordained June 15 at Notre Dame. I'm sure he would appre­ciate a wire or letter of congratulations and well­•wishes. 
Dr. Francis C. Tomasi, who is on the executive committe of the Bennington Base Ball Assoc, Inc.. Bennington, Vt, writes as follows: 
"I presume that Notre Dame men and alumni will be interested to know that Jake KUne, *21, (Notre Dame coach) will manage the Bennington. Vermont, ball team, a representative in the North­ern League. Jake did a creditable bit of manag­ing here last year, having a fine group of college men. many of whom were from Notre Dame, forming a Notre Dame colony. Among them were Rex EIlu and • NonraU Honthauen of the MO class, Joe Nardone, '39. and Andy Scafati, *3G.'* 
Thomas B. Bath, Jr., secretary to Congressman Robert A. Grant, '28, of South Bend, was recent­ly awarded the "most valuable secretary plaqne** in Washington, D. C, at the anntial banqoet of the Oingressional Secretaries Club. l%e bronze plaque- was presented by lA^lliam T^ler Page, author of "The American's Oeed." 

1933 r 
1934 
Fnm B * CiUI: What with the confusion sumondinff my taJdns over new duties added to tlie fact that I lewved Int one letter from mr eonatitoents, this littl* eohnnn will be brief — too brief, Vm sorry to say. 
By fast courier from Grand Bapids, IGdi.* eoBws word that the mii^ty liave fallen — but hard. Gimwf SUdda, he of the hat-on-tha^iadc. of-hisjiead and the SJLC, tells as he' win he married Jon* 7, to Hisa Nancy Clark, of Jaxces­town. N. T. Toor snooper intimated some issnas hack that fiie Shidds had more than a bodnen interest in New Tork state. Ah. there. Xr. 'Win. ehelll George also says that he "has been bomp­ins into the boys' all over, of late. 'Walked into the TTnited Airlines oOice in Cleveland a couple of weeks azo and who shoold be workins there but Bab Batlcr of Glee Chib fame. Hadn't seen him since we left sdiool and Bntts knocked off for the day; we went out to his boose and Hrs. Bntler cooked up a mess of real Italian spa^etti in honor of the oceaaon. As a result 1 left Cleveland on a plane at 7:30 in the evenins rather than at noon as I had expected.. Ran into Irv Kicp in Chi­caso and Ite was slowly going: nuts waiting to be­ecme a father in a matter of hours. Met Kaas Lcanard in the dinins room of the Idke Shore Athletic Club in Chicago. He is still with Frank­fort Distilleries stationed in Chicago." 
From Eiaie BetUnger, '32, comes word that Bin Vataett is now the proud father of a boy. giving him a grand total of a girl and a boy. 
Just as we were all buttoned up with this con­

tribution along comes a letter from Jim GriCin, Bome, N. Y., lawyer. After giving me a verbal cuffing around, Jim says that his engagement to Dorothy Griffin was announced last Nov. 20, but the day Jim wrote be was to have bis physical exam to determine his eligibility for spring prae­tioe with the selective service souad. Ibose of ns who recall Jim's critical illness down in St, Joe Hospital could tell the examining physicians that '"he ain't fitten," but whatever happens he has 
oar best wiahss. 
Jim adds that he saw the Glee Club's appear^ ance in Home, and that they were tops; the dob then went onto Binghamton, N. IT., and we ought to have some report from that old basso, BQl Ayics, on the affair BinsAamton. Speaking of Ayres, his wife viill arrive here May 12 for a visit with her family, but Bill, the old wage-slave, baa to go on working; 
'Very sorry that this is all for this month, but aa we have so often stated, we can't manufacture news about '34. K yoo have any, send it along. 
Ed Mansifld closes a long' period of alence with this elegant press-time report to CakOI: 
"Starting here in this mile hisji dty that has been a hospitable one since I came her« from Birmingham in '36, 1 can refer to only one other '34er. Gene VBA, now a comfy honie.owner in a new structure, is back with Colorado Milling (flour, not mob scenes) after a pair of years afield with ad agencies. 
"Going back to the Deeem'ber diary, I find lines commemorating two pleasant encoonterv with a guy who was almost a *34er, \^m Hrahy. After thumbing the LA . directory Friday after^ noon when I pulled in with 224 other wide-eyed tourists on the N.D. dub special. I heard Frank Fay misannonnce his name at the smoker, nione ealL I,ater, I was I«n's guest at the Electric Club luncheon at the Biltmore — despite the fact Out we are on opponte sides of the Mazda lamp ienm 
— he with G.E., I with a 'Westin^ooae jobhCT here. 
**Iieadins the laughs in an K.D. huddle down­stairs in the Biltmore where a dark-walled room houses pretty hottles and glistening glasses, I fcund Nidc lakats playing "remember when—** with Ray Brandieaa, Harchy Sdiwartz, and Ben Alexander. Nick is publicizing pictures and can be found at the Aloha apartments by wandering 
N.D men, Ray is still with New Mexico State Teachers as tutor of tackling, and Marchy was down from Stanford for the N.D. game. 
"At the game -next day, I practically stumbled over Walt Kennedy, ex-'SchoIastic* deadline misser and 'Santa Maria* editor. "Walt, the Connecticut branch of Kennedys, was honeymooning, on Red-den's 'Westward Ho!' special. We saw Eddie Gould to swap lies about tr^n promoting, by the way, Dave Feferman, ex-South Bender whom many •34ers wiil recall, vras also at the smoker. Lives out yonder now. 
•"Sunday after the game, I had a brief break­fast 'hiya' with Joe Benda and Joe Boland. They told me that Mike Layden, another kinduvana­dcpted '34er, if you'll believe Bill O'TooIe and *Bunk the Barrister' Kennedy, was more than shining as a Big Ten referee on the striped greensward. I heard from Bunk Kennedy, but that 0*TooIe — nah, nah. Bunk is a father and a county attorney, and those are jobs. 
"I hear about 'Murf' Blanoski still handling <:opy well for the 'Sunday Visitor.' I say 'about.' nie message comes via Hubert Smith of the local 'Catholic Register,' who drops in to the Hunting­ton plant fairly often. 
"Vince Fehlig was hospitable as all get-out on a brief slop of mine in St, Xouis 18 months ago (Smell the diary dust?) Vince is married and with his dad's lumber firm. Saw Brother Lou, too. (Sounds Oriental that way.) 
"And in Kansas City, John J. O'Connor, of the 
99.9 average O'Connors, has the prettiest wife and ditto daughter in all of Kaycee. His sidekick. Norm Bowes, was scouting Priddy and Rizzuto faithfully for the Yanks, and law>'ering and ad­justing for an adjusting establishment. Doing well — and still one of the funniest jerks alive-Charlie Higgins, of some time back around '36, is O'Cbnnor's law partner, by the way. 
"Last time I heard from Jim Kearhs, now a by-line byword around the Loop, was when the tabloid edition arrived. I hope Jim will get west for the national PGA tourney at Cherrj- Hills here. He made the Open two years ago. 
"That news about Chuck Litty, the Syracuse water spaniel gone Latin, was worth a year's dues. He has done well, has 'Beejay,' and I sweah I'm going to write him. After all the slow May afternoons that he gave up his topdeck bunk for. me to sleep, I shouldn't be the one to neglect him. ' 
"I heard from the only English major with muscles, titian-topped Dick Kelley, of the rapid walk and excellent tweeds. He's with Westing­house, appliance division, in St. Louis, and I walked right over his head into their lamp de­partment a year ago. Learned he was there too late to see him. He wrote a rollicking letter, and I. the heel, didn't answer. (Sounds of a head hitting a wall, slowly, inexorably.)" 
John P. Gormmn has joined the law firm of Clausen, Hirsh & Miller in Chicago, III. 
Rev. Robert H. Devaney, ex. *34, announced his ordination for May 3 and his first solemn Mass for May 4 in the Church of St. Dorothy, Chicago. All felicitations. 
George J. Blaine wrote us a note from Louis­ville where he has recently been transferred by the duFont company. 
f 09 C FTUUFB C. HMfai«itcr, MO If—fiJA I W99 j^, ^ at LMU, Wnouzt. From Hodi: Two letters have come our way since we last reported the news on the '35 outfit, but as we sat 
down to type Dp the "story" this martdng an­other missive showed up !n the mail. li; inciden­tally, was an "Announconent of an Arrivml" — the lucky parents are Bill .and Mrs. SArv^r from down Atlanta way. Bill, Jr., first saw Usjit of day on April 10. Congratulations to yon and the wife. Bill — get him in trim for NJ>. '61. 
Frank Holahan finally came throng and verified his marriage after having read about it in a pre­vious column. Ned Rowan was the only KJ). man in the wedding party. Ray Btoderidc, who was supposed to have ushered, couldn't get away from business as he was called to Birmingham. 
Frank reports that he heard via Ray that Camille Gravel was married a year and a half ago and is prospering as an attomor in the home town of Alexandria, La. Camille Is quoted as say­ing "there is nothing like this slippers and pipe e:dstence." A trmsm in which Holahan concurs. 
'While in AVashington several months ago, Frank got together with Ray, Tom (Montclair) Flynn and Phil Heinle. There was some talk about "meeting the missus over a glass!" The report of that conference is that Broderick Is doing very well with the REA as a tax expert; Flynn is in the insurance business in Washington and is living with Ray. Phil has a fine position with the American Can in East Orange, and from latest rumors is soon to walk down the middle aisle. 
The Holahans attended the Army game last fall and the belated news now comes through. Among those met by Frank and his ^fe : the Walt SktM­hans (both doing well, thank you!); and Walt Brown who is working for a chain grocery outfit in Hiilly. 
Phil Jacobs writes that the banking business is "booming" down Alexandria way, but tmfor­tunately he is anticipating the "Call to Arms" as a minute part of Uncle Sam's defense program any time now. 
Word comes through that Adrian Wadcerman has an excellent position in the drafting depart­ment of the Atlantic Refining Co. in Philly. There are also reported whisperings about pro­spective marriage in this area. Charlie O'Connor is working in the Lancaster Ckiunty National Bank in Pennsylvania, and from the grapevine we learn that he looks prosperous. Charlie, inci­dentally, was engaged as a bank examiner in the service of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for two years after graduation. And another bank examiner, Louis Vaeser, was working in the Pennsylvania territory recently. He is an assist­ant national bank examiner, the same as Hola­han, with headquarters in his home town of AVheeling, W. Va. 
Frank's headquarters were changed last May 1 —^ a year, and we are just learning about it. It is now.P: O. Box 148, Lancaster, Pa. It was swell hearing from you, Frank — don't wait so long before you write again. 
And now just a quick note from Cliff Wefaii. He followed up his previous letter with a bit of interesting info that reads as follows: "Your wish for an early marriage, has already been consum­mated. We (Sally Webster) were married on Feb. 
25. I>ecided to go through with it before Lent. So far, life is as rosy as we had had it painted." 
Felicitations and a lot of luck and happiness to you both from the class and from your Scrib& (And thanks for the information. Cliff.) 
Hiat completes the correspondence for this time but we have several phone calls and peracmal contacts to report. One Saturday evening about a month ago the phone rang and it was Vic Cartan. Vic has been working here in St. Louis for idx years with the International Shoe Co. Just when he received a swell promotion the "boys in olive drab" called him up. Vic phoned us from Jeffer­son Barracks just outside the city, where, forten­ately enough, he has been assigned permanently In the finance division. The Barracks are supposed to be for induction puriMses only. A nice break 
for Vic We are still waiting for that call, '^c! 
Just before Easter the phone rang and'it was 
Harvey Bodnrell. who is traveling about the coun­
try demonstrating and selling camera equipment. 
Harvey was at the Coronado Hotel for a meeting 
on his way to the coast. 
On Easter TViesday night after class Scribe and Vrs. Scribe were at the Coronado for dinner and tb ^ ran into Bill O'Connor, who was staying over night at the hotel. He and his Dad were en-route to Hot Springs for a vacation. Bill, inci­dentally, is growing larger and larger. 
Hie local Universal Notre Dame Night party at the Chase brought out Jim Hi!l from down state NYA work- Jim is appearing for us on May 5 to address our Public Welfare Administration class on the N.Y.A. Al Ravarino's Djd died during Holy- Week after a long illness. Though it was expected for some time it was difficult to take it when it came. We want to express the condol­ence of the entire class to Al and add to it our own personal sympathy. 
Before we sign off this short bit of reporting, we shall tell you of our latest escapades — if in­terested. lUght now we are in the midst of plan­ning the first Summer Institutes in the Correc­tional field ever attempted at our School of So­cial Service. We arc offering two of them under our supervision: one in Probation and Parole; and another in Custodial Treatment. Each will run three weeks. 
On April 29 we presented (as this is ^vritten) the summary of the Missouri Jail Sur\'ey made by the Federal Bureau of Prisons. Since it is loaded with dynamite — reverberations are ex­pected. Beeaose of the deplorable jail conditions existing throughout the country, the Federal Bu­reau decided to survey several states. Missouri was the first studied and this will be the first public presentation. Outside of that, life goes on as usual with a talk here and there on one thing or another, and a daily stint of classroom teaching. 
One more column this year — will it end up with a bang? 
Faal C Fergns is no longer with the South Bend I*athe Works but is in the South Bend advertising field, connected wlUi Carter, Jones Sc Taylor, a local agency. 
Tom Owens, also formerly with South Bend Lathe, is now connected with the Dodge Corp., Mishawaka. 
VA^j r John Hormn. €1 E. 95tfs St., Apt. 1. 
S-Year Reunion 
Oass of 1936 May 30, 31, June I 
From John Moran: Well, boys, here it is — the program for our S-Year Reunion . . . and what a program! You'll agree with us after you have looked it over, for Chairman Bob Enrin and his gang have lined up three solid days of fun! Brother, this is one re­union Yon Can't Afford To Miss I Beg, borrow, or steal (well, not exactly steal) train fare, bus fare, plane fare, or gasoline fare, but be back there at Notre Dame on Friday. May 30 (Memorial Day — Ions' week-end, making it easy for you to get away), Saturday, June 1, and Sunday. June 2. Tilts is the LAST notice you are going to receive 
— make up your mind NOW to get back for Reunion! 
Here's the fun-packed program that's been lined np for you: 
Friday: May 31: — Registration and Assignment to roorn^ The whole '3$ sans will be housed in one residence hall. Golf: — alumni may begin play on the Univer­sity course at any time. Xliere will also be swimming in the lake and in the Rockne He­morial, in addition to other sports. 
3:00 F. M.: Baseball: California vs. Kotre Dame, Cartier Field. 
8:30 F. M,: — CTass Smoker, Carroll Hall Rec. Movies of the Ohio State game and the 1935 team, sandwiches, "refreshments," ping-pong, pool, etc, introduction of the new coach­ing staff, entertainment by the gang, and a chance to try out your rusty baritone at the piano. This will be the best bull session you ever attended! 
Saturday: June 1: — Registration for late comers. Golf for late comers, grudge matches, etc. The facilities of the Rockne Memorial will be avail­able for swimming, stiunsh, handball and other sports. 
11:00 A. M.: Traditional soEtball game be­tween 5-year and 10-year men. This bitter clash for possession of the "Gaboon" will "be waged on the Badin-Walsh playing field. 
1:30 P. M.: — Baseball. Cartier Field: Notre Dame vs. California. 
6:00 P. M.: — The Alumni Banquet in the University Dining Hall. The '36 gang will be seated in a group. Informal gatherings later in residence hall. 
Sunday: June 2: — 
10:00 A. M. — Special Mass for the Class of 1936 in the hall chapel, with Special Memorial for Deceased Members. Golf, swimming, and other sports to suit your wishes, 
12:00 Noon: — Monogram Club luncheon in University Dining Hall. 
3:00 P. M.: — Commencement exercises. Awarding of degrees and Commencement ad­dress in the University gymnasium. 
With a great program like that, nobody could fail to have a grand time. And although not listed in the program, the chance to return and live on the campus again, to meet your old hallmates and classmates, your old prefects and teachers after five years will probably be the greatest source of enjoyment and pleasure during the entire three days. So round up the *36era living near you and arrange to get back. A bunch can get together and plan to drive, or as we are doing here in New York, the '36 gang is plan­ning a special train, with reduced fare, on con­junction with the 10- and 15-year alumni. All those from New Jersey, New York. Connecticut, and the east who are interested in the latter, are urged to communicate with your secretary at once. 
We will have a tremendous turnout if the'. response to our recent letter continues. At the I time this is written (April 26) we have received so many returned post-cards and letters from so many of you enthusiastic '36ers that for tbe sake of keeping this column from running clear out of the "Alumnus." we*ll list only part of them, and then only briefly: 
Bill Gottsacker, from Sheboygan. Wis., writes in his letter: "Enter my reservation NOW for the Reunion. I have avoided one draft because of poor eye-sight, which was the national draft, but I want to join that draft to Notre Dame on May 30, See you and the gang on the 30th to recall the good times of yesteryear." 
Don Elser, Gary: "This is one affair I have been waiting for. I'll be there." 
Bert Baor, Chicago: **Am looldnff forwrd to seeing you and the ffang on Hay 30. Art Cradbi tells me lie is going to make it too. It diould "hti m great affair I" 
Art Kerns, Saginaw. Uicb.r **Hap Bamett and 
X will be there." 
Mike Layden, Indianapolis: "Enjoy the *36 col­
umn very much. I'll be back for Reumon.** 
Bob CaTananxb. Washington. D. C ; "Am headed for California and Washinston on Inuiiiefii, but I'll he back to N.D. for Reunion." 
John Daley, LaPorte. Ind.: "The Baley twins 
will be back to help make things roar as in the 
good old days in Badin Hall. See yon on tiie 
3Cth." 
Ed Daley, Chicago: "Have been interning here 
in Chicago and am leaving in June /or Milwaukee, 
but I'll be back for Rennion." 
Tom Adamson, Chicago: "Am iiv public rela^ tions department of Bowman Dairy. Will be on hand for Reunion." 
Tom Grady, Chicago: "I'll be back if I'm not in 
the Army." 
Harry Rich (The Shadow), Parma, Ohio: "Anx­
ious to see the boys once again. Count me in." 
Paul Guamieri, Warren, Ohio: "PracUcing law 
here, and doing fine. Will see you at Notre 
Dame." 
Ed Dunn, Grand Rapids: "Have been here for 
two years with the United Autographic Register 
Co. I'll be back for Reunion." 
Dan Kalczynski, South Bend: "Thanks for ask­ing me to help with the Smoker arrangCTients. Plans are going very .well." 
Jess Hawlcy, Boise, Idaho: "Hope to get back, and if everything works out well. I'll hie seeing you and the boys on May 30." 
Dr. Ken Laws, Hammond, Ind.: -. "Barring broken legs, etc, I'll be seeing you and the boys back on the old stamping groimds this Hay." 
And that's just a sample of the heavy response received at this early date from you '36ers who are rearing at the bit, waiting for Memorial Day to roll around. Here are more of the gang who have returned their cards stating that they will be back for Reunion, come what may: 
Auggie Church, Frank Shapiro, Gene Tobin. Howard Jefters, Joe (United Air lines) SIIIUT«II, Dennis Hickey, Joe Blansficld. Tom Tobin. Tony Scolaro, Hugh Wall. Loaie Crystal. Bob Enrin, Joe Ratigan. Bill Wal ^ BiQ Jacobs, Spence Wal­ton. Art Martin,. George HcNeilc, Earle Frarcy, Pat Fisher, Lou Hansman. Charies SchalHer, Bill Struck and Eli Abraham. 
Bob fttacDonald of Flint, Mich., writes that he has been practicing law for three years, and while he is kept .busy as state representative in the Michigan Legislature, he will be on hand for Reunion. 
Jack Lacey takes time out from his duties with the Army Air Corps to say that he will be back at Notre Dame for the Reunion and is looking forward to seeing all the boys. 
Fred Gabriel writes from St. "Vincent's Hospital, Erie., Pa., where he is interning to say that brother Louie, who is stationed at Robert Packer Hospital, Sayre. Pa., and John Brady are all planning to join the gang at Reunion on May 30. 
Bud Goldman writes from Pittsburgh that he is neither in love, debt, or trouble, but that he defi­nitely will be on hand to join in the fun on May 30. 
Says the old "Dome" editor, John Walker, from Keokuk, Iowa: "Looking forward to seeing you and the gang, but hope we don't get caught in the craft first," 
Frank Martin says he will be on hand for the Smoker as well as the remainder of the Reunion week-end. Bad weather or not, Frank will be scooting up from Lockport, Ind., to be Twith the Reunion week-end. 
Nrii Bartaett postcards in from Saginaw, IGdu, to aay very briefly, but to the point: "StOI fivins: . . . rU be hack for the fan of Reankn ir«d&­end.-
Mke O'Coaner reports in &om Charieston. W. Va,, as follows: *'Hape yoa and all the bojs are on hand for a nice boll aesdon. TU be there — and howl" 
Joe Katisaa, Bordentown, N. X, finallr hmlce down and came tiiroogh with the lett^ wUdk he promised this eohmm last falL We win pass en the news in it at a later date, hot here is what Joe si^rs about reumon: "Til he baek, and if there is anything I can do toward helpinK oot, let me know I" 
Paal Lanacr, the funny man from Ghieagt^ wisecracks throui^ a three-page letter wtddh we will also save for another issue. Althongfa, Paul is busy doing the scripts for two national NBO ccmedy shows, he promises to forget pima for tiie week-end and laugh at somebody else's jokes when he gets hack for-Reunion. Says Paul: "Am look­ing forward to seeiner my ex-roomle Art Geras, Jade DeGarsMS and Tom Downing;. I still got one of Art's ties, one of Jack's socks, and Tom's toupee." 
From way out in Bend, Ore., Gil Hoty returned his post-card saying that he would be hitting the trail back for Reoxuon. 
We suggest that yoa look up the boys in your neck of the woods who may be holding hack is ^ e tiansportation problem is holding yoa np. Pat Tofari, 45 Holland St., Winchester. Mass.. and Joe Haluu* from Kingston, N. Y.. are hoth driving hack to N.D. and are looldng for some of *3ft sanff to go along, 
Larry FalkeTic; 207 N. Market St., Johnstown, 
X> Y., writes: "Think I can arrange to set off for Memorial Day week-end. Do anyone driving oat?'* (see above* Lany). 
Several of the hoys retomed their cards mnd Haiei that they woald be nnable to attend be­cause they had been drafted, or had gone on active duty in the Army or Kavy, Joe S^Midt is at Camp Lee, Va., Baliiii Catdinal is at Ckmp Ed­vrards. Mass^ vhtle Ft. Braee, N. C, is now honsins Joe Piendcrvast, Joe Banderidi and Joha Dtsmond. Mike TacUcy is at Gamp Blandin?, Fla.. Alan Donovan is receiving iiis nail at Csmp VHieeler, Macon, Ga., vihile Tony Muxiotti is at Camp Haan, Riverdale Connty, Calif, Also on the vcest coast, but just vhere is not Icnown. is Justin OToole. 3aA Robinson Is another draftee, v;hile Lt. Jade deaMn is stationed at Camp For­rest, Tenn. Jim SidaD is rejoinins the Naval Air Service. To all the boys in the Services, we say sincerely that we wish you conid be with ns. To . complete the 1936 register of men in the Serviees. please send np yonr complete ratinir and address. 
Short shots: Andy Befanth. the real estate ty­coon from Springfield,' Ohio, was in New Toiic and attended the Bodcne Conummion Breakfast on March 30. Andy was due to say "I Do** on April 19, 1941, the hxky sirl beins Mary Helen Qoinlan .. . he is also doe to be back for Re­union. Also at the Breakfast was Private Jee Sdualdt (in uniform). Joe flew up fnnn Camp Lee to attend. FVom Philadelphia came I/ede Alaman. who is sellins for the Halhnark Card Co.. and Frank Skapin^ who is inspector of ma­terials in the Fhilly Navy Tard. 
Jekn Zdanewic*. who is with the liquid depart­ment of the American Sosar Company in Kcw York, was also on hand, and also stated Hiat be will be baek for Reunion. Others at the braakfait included Father Dan ffleasen. Gene I—itiii/ . Bin Gilleapie and JIa Xfatr. 
And that winds up the column for this numtt. We win see yon baek at Notre Dame on the SSfh of May — and we expect that you, like oumlvea, will be primed for a rootins good time. ^KMe in the East who are interested in piling oa the Notre Dame ^ledal train are asked to set in . touch with us as soon as posable. Anyooe driving back can communicate with tis, and we'll, let you know if any of the boys from your neck of the woods are looking for a ride. 

lliose of you who haven't returned your cards as yet are asked to help us plan rooms, refresh­ments, etc. by puttingr them in the mails at once. And so — till we start shaldng hands, and pound­ing each other on the back at Notre Dame, keep talking up the Reunion to the doubtful *36ers. 
Last minute returns as this column was being: wound up preparatory to being dropped in the mailbox include Andy Pilney: "Am starting new coaching position at St. Mel's High School (Chi­cago) this fall, but ril be back for Reunion be­fore then. Count me in!" 
George Wolf writes: 'Td suggest you make a special appeal for the chemists and chemical en­gineers of '36 to attend the Reunion as I'm axious to sec them all.'* 
Beno Zaranfonello, the old Bengal Bouter: "Am in the restaurant and night club business here in Tliomton, III., and am doing very well. See you at Reunion." 
More and more cards from you guys saying you'll be back. Here's another gang that will be back for the fun: Dick Snooks. George Binder, Fred Weber, and two of the class medicos, Drs. Jade Brady and Lou GabricL Bill Smith fChica­go) pops up to say he will be on hand, while Jim Knll says he is going to make a mighty hard try to get down from Detroit. 
Jade Cashin, stationed out in Burbank, Calif,, with American Airlines wTites: "My vacation is scheduled for November, but if possible I will switch it and fly east for Reunion." Hope you can make it. Jack. Paol Cnmmings sends his regrets with the announcement that he is being married to Miss Carola Rossie at Watch Hill, R, I., on May 31. Congratulations, Paul. George Milton writes in from Brooklyn to say he will be back. 
It took nothing less than a national emergency and the draft to keep some of you from Re­union. But here are a few of the gang who are now in the Services and who can't get back, much as they want to. Bob McDonongh, Camp Shelby, Miss.: "Believe me, I'm sorry to miss the chance to see the boys, as I certainly had planned on Reunion." 
Fred BfcNeil, Camp Robinson, Ark.: "Uncle Sam's draft came sooner than yours, so he has priority." Jim Sherry: "Have been classified lA and will be in the Army by May 15. Have a good time and remember me to all the boys." Chris BCattfiews: "Being inducted on April 29. Best wishes for a bang-up reunion." Joe Waldron: **Draft too uncertain — I'm waiting for my clas­sification." 
Don Elser, athletic director and head football coach at St. Benedict's college, Atchison, Kans., was recently apx>ointed head football coach at Horace Mann high school of Gaiy, Ind. He will also assist in coaching the basketball and track teams. 
103 7 P**l Foley, 910 Hawtfaome Road, 
• '^ ' Grone Pointe. BGdiigan. From Pan! Foley: 
Armed with a batch of assorted postcards, letters and nostalgic notes from our armed forces, we wade into the chore hoping to make up for last issue's aching void. 
Taking them chronologically the first thrust comes from a source we had long thought com­pletely atrophied — J. PanI Sheedy, writing from his manse at 147 West Winspear Avenue. 
Slwedy himself is still with Standard Brands. "seeing that John Q. Public gets his vitamins via Fleisdiniann's Yeast and Charlie McCarthy's cof­fee." Since more than half the world is busy seeing that John Q. Public gets something or 
other, this puts Sheedy right in the parade. 
Also in Buffalo is Tom Condon and wife Betty. plus daughter Carol. Tom is also looking after John Q. — selling him insurance* 
Fresh from Buffalo, but presently taldng a sab­batical year in khaki, is Jim Moulder, wrho is at camp "somewhere in Massachusetts," supposedly with the 102nd Coast Artillery. 
Ijaboring in sunnier fields is Joe Battariis* still peddling wine and the joys thereof. He found time this winter for a Florida vacation, whidi is something. « 
Antonio BImris Bas^t, late of the romantic Philippine, is now at 17 Battery Park, New York City — which just goes to show what can happen if you're not careful. Tony's with de la Rama Steamship Co., which sent him to the States in his official capacity. 
Fcrg Kelly is a leather-necked Marine. Just re­cently he ^vas formally inducted into the flying branch of the service which always lands in the nick of time just before the v^olcano explodes and the native chief adds a dash of curry powder. 
Pacing Brooklyn waiting for "Greetings &om the President" is none other than William B. Foley, expecting momentarily to doff his Brooks Bros, sack suit in favor of the new Army model. In the same category, although of somewhat dif­ferent sartorial proportions, is . Joe Quinn for whom the Army expects to find a rotund slot very, very shortly. 
Always willing to oblige a correspondent, even ;one who's losing his hair in the service of Stand­"ard Brands, we reprint the following reciuest from 
Sheedy:. "Paul, I hojw you don't mind my using your column to .catch up a bit of my corresimndence but I've owed Jack, Powers a line since a year ago Christmas and. I think that I should at least let him know that I'm still alive and that his gi-cetings have not gone for naught. Maybe Pll take time oft one of these days to wTite him." We're always willing to save one of the boys three cents, and a year ago Christmas is no stop-street pause while waiting for a letter. "Do you have a correspondent who has been waiting two . years come Michaelmas? Write the Foley follow­up scn'icc today." 
Dick Smith, we are told, is "somewhere in New Mexico" now in the Coca-Cola business. (More to come.) Speaking of coke, Sheedy wants to know what ever happened to Ed Gerrity, who supplied the needs of Kankakee, III.? Also who knows where to write Ed Patka? 
Sheedy boasts that he had a wire from Enriqae Jose Brias de Gardiitorena Roxas y Carrajol (Mike Brias) at Christmas time. Nobody gets more "free signature" from Western Union than our boy Alike. What the wire was is not revealed, but it was probably something darkly mysterious. 
Ed Hoyt comes back into the ranks of faithful correspondents with a note from 2523 TJniveraty Ave., New York City, which proves they can think up names as well as numbers in New York. 
Hoyt says he's "almost in the Army," which is like almost missing a train, Hoyt has been through the mill of questionnaire, physical exams and what have you, and is just "almost" under the jurisdiction of Bbhop O'Hara. 
Harry Pierce is already in the Army: he's been lugging a Garand and light shovel for almost two months now. 
Hoyt says he ran into Frank Riley in Haey*s toy department recently — and heard about Riley's life in Brooklyn where an heir is ex­pected shortly — and hence the toy department. Old fore-handed Frank! 
At the New York Club's Rockne Memorial Breakfast Hoyt ran. into even more boys than he did in "Macy's toys." Among them was the "ScfatH lasfic's" very best managing editor, Cy Strakcr* whose silence has been gigantic. Cy is still with Norton-Zally Co., and is living in bachdor bliss in New York. We have it straight that C^ has already started "talking about" the idea of a wife. He was non-committal at the breakfast but admitted he has heard nothing from his draft board. 
Tea Haglies was at the breakfast. His brothei^ in-law was killed in an auto accident at Little Rock, Arlc, in Bfarch. 
Also on hand was Frank Haiiking, who expects definitely that he will be drafted before Sep­tember. 
Farther West we learn on good authority (throu^ Hoyt) that Ardi Gott has been given a very fine advancement in the service of Inter­national Harvester in Chicago. As always happens in sudi cases, (sott is flirting with the idea of matrimony, we are told. 
Win Kirk started out in Phy. Ed. and is now a banker, proving once again that almost anything can happen with the blessings of democracy and a good strong pocketbook finger. Not satisfied with being a banker. Bill is also a father, which makes him twice removed from the Army. 
Cryptically Hojrt remarks: "Joe McNally was also observed at the breakfast." 
Loa Ataman is in and around New York occa­sionally although he earns his daily with a Phila­delphia firm. 
We, personally and in the flesh, feel a much closer kinship to our armed forces now that we have heard from our two-year roommate. Bob Grogan, who is with H.Q. Battery, 13th Coast Artillery, Fort Barrancas, Fla. The fort is appar­ently not far removed from Pensacola. Bob in­formed us of his status on a postcard reeking with lush Florida scenery by moonlight and. la­beled "Pensacola." So if you have to go in the Army we can think of no more gorgeous spot in which to spike totalitarianism than the moon-drenched reaches of Florida. 
Grogan was caught in the draft at Jackson, Miss., inducted at (^mp Shelby and promptly shipped to Florida. 
If you will look up a few paragraphs you will note that we carried a line remarking that Dick Smith is "somewhere in New Mexico." We knew 
.all the time that he was in Ros^vell. N. Mex., be­
. cause we got it straight from Mrs. IMck Smith, via Jolin Horan in New York. Mrs. Smith is not carrying on an under-cover correspondence with our man Horan — it just happened. She reports that IHck is so busy with Coca Cola that he has had no chance to tell the rest of us that he's in Roswell. To keep the record straight and allow . you to put a pink-headed pin in central New Mexico labeled "Didc Smith," his Mrs. took pen in hand. Specifically Dick is with the Pecos Val­ley Coca Cola Bottling Co., Box 657, Roswell, N. Hex., and will be most happy to hear any tidings you may have. 
We haven't the vaguest notion where Roswell is but the Aztecs must have evacuated — Roswel­lians drink coke now. 
May we take the privilege (a lazy one) of sim­ply r^rinting verbatim a card we recently re­ceived? Thanks, we will. 
"Excuse the card, but it's all I can get my hands on and the mood is on me. A short time ago — seven months to be exact — I ran afoul a few tubercle bacilli and came out on the short end of the score and so I've been flat on my back since and expect to be for one more year. I'm holing out at Rockford Municipal Sanitorium. in Rodcford, HI. My Ginie and Woody are at home in Amboy, HI. 
"So my news is small. Bill Tnnney is still with Coming Glass works and stops by occasionally. Jae ScUninv is the proud father of a baby boy and pounds the pavement for P. & G. soap. Ed Cretty is the 'papa' of a baby girl and holds forth under HacUe Devore as assistant coach at Provi­
dence College. D. J. SalliTaa is pursuinsr same' thins for the F.B.I. in Utah and Wyoming. Bill liTBdi is an accountant in his home town, Rome, 
N. Y., and Elner Zcnner. when I last heard, was with Johnson Wax Go. in Radne. So lone for now." - Phil Bondi. 
To Phil we extend our sincerest wishes for a very si>eedy and complete recovery — which will, of course, come to pass by his own cheerfnl de­termination. 
We are Kenuinely sorry that a strong military note has cropped into this screed. If it arouses any antagonism in yon as a reader, we suggest a strong letter to the nearest Congressman. The next column, for all we know, may be written from a pup tent at Camp Custer. 
Harry Marr has been appointed end coach at Boston College. He was formerly at Wichita 

U. in Kansas. 
Jolin J. LcTtdd, who coached Fort Wayne, Ind., Central Catholic High School's net teams to state and national championships in 1939 and 1940, resigned his post there to accept a position as as­sistant football coach and head basketball coach at St. Ignatius high school in Cleveland. Brother Justin, C.S.C., '32, former principal, and John were the principal speakers ' recently at the sixth annual reunion of the class of '35 of the school. 
1938 ^'^'**^ ^ WinUms. 308 Bast Lak* ' '^* » AT C Balttmore, Maryland. 

From Hal Williams 
For the May issue of this column there is variety but not volume. Knee the last issue I have received two wedding invitations, a wedding announcement, three letters (two of them from fellows who are writing to the column for the first time), a birth announcement, and a beautiful postcard from a lucky and apparently prosperous classmate vacationing in Miami. 
First Jack Simon who, after much coaxing, comes through with this bit of news from the town with the funny name, Kalamazoo. Says Jack: 
"It's been a long time, but I am finally. getting around to dropping you a line on condition-in the paper and celery ci^. A lot of ..water lias gone under the.bridge, and, firqm.the looks of my im­mediate future, a whole lot more is going to flow under, very, shortly. 
"I'm being married on April 19 and I'm sched­uled for the Army the first week in May — which furnishes enough change in one month to keep one from ennui at least. 
"I'm really sorry I haven't written before, but n i try to make up for it a bit by giving you as much news from Kalamazoo as I can remember. Ihere aren't a great number of NJ). alumni in this town, but just enough to keep it interesting. So here goes on a few of them. 
*^nmett 'Swede' Bauer, the pride of Good Thunder, Minn., is being married in Kalamazoo on Easter Monday. In fact, he's marrying a cou­sin of mine. He's a soft-water equipment sales­man in LaPorte. Ind., where he is building a home for his bride. When I lived next to 'Swede' in Badin Hall I never dreamed we'd some day be relatives. 
**Sebastian 'Sabby* * Bonet works here for the Hulholland Outdoor Advertising agency. 'Sabby' works for Art BfalhoUand who graduated in '35. He just missed the draft, being deferred at the induction station after numerous goodbye parties had been held in his honor. He really is a man about town. He appeared recently in one of our Gvic Theatre productions. He was 'the Count' in 'The Man Who Killed the Count.' 
"Phil Suelds has been selling tires mostly, but right now he is getUng ready .for'the Army as his number is supposed to' come up in sevezml months. George McMorrow tcaclies philoaoiiby mt Nazareth College, tiie girl^ Mhool.'in Kazoo. Be is an active member of the pansh and has been directing the choir for some -time.'. I hear from Jade O'Donnell every once in a .while. He's com­ing up from N.D, to serve the Ibss'at my wed­ding. I enjoyed Jack Cleaiyfs -acoonnt of his encounter with the gunman. Say"'hiello* to Jolm for me through the column, will'yonT Pve been planning to write to him but I.never get around to it. I'll probably think of any number of Items I could have mentioned after.'I-mail this letter, but right now Pm dry. Until the,next time then (which won't be so long). , . ." ?' 

Thanks, Jack, for the fine letter. Congratnla.. tions on your marriage and.' plenty of luck for your Army career. 
In the same mail was a wedding invitation from Kalamazoo. Just for the records, here it is; "Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Mdreland reqfuest the honour of your presence at-the marriage of tfad^ daughter Eileen Kathryn, to . Mr. John Daniel Simon on Saturday, this. nineteenth of April at ten o'clock in the morning. Saint Augustine's Church, Kalamazoo, Mi^i^n.** 
Incidentally, Jack's letter, was written on tiis fine stationery (Rising's'. Line Marque Substance Twenty-four 25% Rag) of the Bermingham and Frosser Paper Comp>any 'of Kalamazoo. We'll pre­sume that Jack worked there before entering the 
Army. • . -­
Now for Tom Hughes^ who writes on the sta­tionery of the Alpha' Kappa Kappa house. 199 West Tenth avenue, Columbus, Ohio. 
Writes Tom: "After hearing your desperate plea for news during the past three years, I finally am cixerting myself to an exaggerated de­gree in an attempt to supply you with what little I can. Upon. graduation from N.D. I matriculated in the medical school here at Ohio State, and al­though .marked with the stigma of an 18 to IS defeat in^ 'the 1935 football campaign, I managed to squirm through the first two years and have so far evaded the axe and my local draft board* 
'. "College life here is somewhat diffeirent from 
" that at N.D. in that the fraternity system flour­ishes on this campus in addition to the novel dis­traction of numerous Ohio co-eds. Although is o lated here to some extent in Ohio's central low­lands, I have managed to meet a few of the btqrs from the dear old class of '38. Pat Carey, who now travels for Kingston Products of Kokomo, Ind., has dropped in to see me several times, and we have had good times together. While enjoying a glass of Coca-Cola one night in a nearby stnbe we ran into the once famous IhmKeroas Daa* AIcGettrick from Cleveland who was in town for political reasons. The former friend of Father Boland has not changed, and the three of ns spent quite an evening together. 
"During the course of the year I also have seen Tom Elder who is in town worldng for a meat packing concern. We were the only members of the '38 class present at a picnic on the day of the Southern Cal.-N.D. game last fall. In the past three years* I have heard only from Jade ThaBs who is working in Springfield in the Illinois State Department of Labor, and Frank Crodar, who is now in South Bend with his family. However, I know that Danny Boyle, Jade Lnngren and E i McCabe are followers of Aesculapius [Secretarsr's note: For you dumb blokes — he's the god of med­icine : I looked it up.} in Philadelphia, and Gcarse Best, Paul Roark and Don LeBfire in Chicago. Gene Smith is likewise attending med sdiool at Long Island. Best, Roark, Smith and I happen to wear the same fraternity colors. 
"The local N.D. Club is fairly active here. Last fall they sponsored an outing at Dr. Dwm's cabin for the more appropriate reception of the Sootbem Cal. game. Last Sunday they had a Communion breakfast to honor Kadu Now preparations are mider way. for Universal Notre Dame Nl^tt and they are also planning to sponsor a cftr boxbiK tournament under the direction of Jade rsaasw 
"X have exhausted the news supply so it is better that I dose before I start condoning or condemning polities, local boards, army commis­sion, anatomy profo, and the like. Wm -weleome any eorreqjKmdence firom the boys as well as nsits on thdr way sooth.** 
Tbanks, Tcmmy, for taking time out from med­idne and Ohio State co*ed8 to write that letter. You certainly covered Columbns in fine style. Let's hear ftom yon again, soon. 
Tbe Kami, Fla., postcard was, from Daa (Ham­burger) Hkkey, who writes, evident^ with a postoffice pen, *T thoua^t I would get Esst. but my trip was cut short, so I came rie^t on down South. Grand time and I wish I could see yon, but have to hurry back. The hamborgera down here are not as good as they are in South Bend.** 
From Fort Belvoir. Va., on a War Department pena]l7-for<9rivate-u8e-to-aToid-pa3rment-of'postage -S300 postal card is the news that Ed Mattfaigiy, of Cumberland, Md., is now PHvate Mattingly in Company O of the Sixth Engineer Training Ba-talion at the Engineer Replacement Center, Fort Belvtur. Va. 
A card annonndng a new arrival-states fbat "something rare in family literature, a priceless new edition bound in miniature** arrived to the Paal Leaky, Jr.'s, on April 7 at Tiffin, Ohio. The baby, weii^iiiig seven pounds, four ounces, is named Patricia laizabeth, and will probably be making the dances at NJX in twenty years or less. Congratulations, PauL And mall oat those dgara. If memory serves me right, Patricia Eliz­abeth is the second addition to the Leahy family. 
Another wedding invitation states tliat Mrs. J. Milton Grifnth requests the honour of your pres­ence at the marriage of her danghter Dorothea Theresa to Mr. HaraU Frands Langtan on April fonrteenth at nine o'doek at the Blessed Sacra­ment Churdi, Baltimore. Today this announce­ment arrived: Mr. and Mrs. Ray J. Fleweger announce the marriage of their daughter Patricia Margaret to "Mr. GttM^ Bader Morris, Jr„ on Saturday, April nineteenth at Our Lady's Chapd, Notre Dame, bdiana. 
To Hal and George, heartiest congratulations. A letter from Bad Shciwoed states that be has regained his old batting form and is now ready to return to work. He and his wife are leaving Flint, Midi., the latter part of April to return to Tarrytown, N. T., where Bud will resume Ms old job with Genual Motors. About a month ago, Joe Crotty, of the not-so­distingnished class of '37, was in Baltimore one night and called me up. After work, I went over to see him and we had a swell time singing the old sdiool songs and talking of the days that used to be. Joe is now working in the census depart­ment in Washington and says that they are very busy. Joe, 1^ the way, can redte the exact pcqpo­lation of every town that has more than 500 souls living witMn its boundaries. Two weeks ago Lake "neman — also known as WinchdI's &iend 
— came to Baltimore on bnnness, he said. Lake also telephoned me while I was at work. but I did not get an oiq;iortunity to see him. "Lake, I believe he said, is working with International Business Madiines in Washington. 
^lat about winds up the program for this nionth. Mr pleas for more correspondence has awakened some of the boys; but I am not satisfied. I want more. Let^s have pluity of news for the June issue — the final until October. And bow about more communications from you lucky (?) fdlows who are now guarding the frontien of our country? 
Gcae Ely, '38, is the new line coadi at Widiita U., WIdiita, Eans., having transferred from St. 
Mary's High School, Michisran City. Ind. to suc­
ceed Harry Blarr, now at Boston Collese. 
Joe Gleason, late of Catholic Central High, 

Hammond, Ind., was recently appointed coach at 
De La Salle Institute, ChJcago, replacing Slilton 
Picpnl, '41, who has signed a contract \\-ith the 
Detroit Lions. 
Frank J. Wakorits, '38. and Patridc N. Morra, ex. '38, are both attached to the first reconnais­sance squadron, first cavalry (mechanized) divi­sion stationed at Fort Bliss, EI Paso, Texas. 
Robert J. P. Bryan of South Bend, who is a student in the school of Medicine of Western Reserve U., Cleveland, has been granted a Crile Scholarship Award for the summer of 1941, 
IQ^ Q ^^**"^ DeCooTMy, 205 Brash Creek, 
From Vince DeCoarsey: 
The next to the last "Alumnus" of the year finds (again) the '39ers a wee bit on the short side as regards the news. 
Letter number one was from John Ference, 305 Harvard, St, East Pittsburgh, Pa., who wrote a veiy nice letter. John says we probably won't remember him since he didn't graduate, although in attendance for three years. In the '38 "Dome" on page 98 he is listed as 'Fltzpatrick.* But John didn't say what he was doing, or whom he has seen or heard from, or about. Next time we ex­pect this to be corrected. How about it, John? And thanks again for your encouragement. 
Some days later a very surprising note all done up in blue ribbons announcing simply but effec­tively "Robert Bredette Pick, II." (Jongxatulations. Bob. But has anyone yet passed Jim Walsh — (with — at last report two) and Denny Dincen's twins? 
Fred Siak, after some time, finally broke down and dropped us a very nice letter. Fred is still at the Lawyers Club, Ann Arbor, Mich. — and fro'm a few other sources, we hear, doing very well, too. And FVed said quite a bit about the boj-s •— As for instance: "Only a short time ago I had a letter from Joe Ryan, which also sen'ed to in­vite me to Buffalo during sonie of the spring va­cation. . . . Getting back to Colorado and also to CJhristmas vacation. While I was home I fre­quently saw Joe Nigro* who lives in Trinidad and who graduated from the N,D. Law School last June. He had recently completed the Colorado bar examination which he was naturally concerned about, but according to news in the' home town gazette the other day, his worries are ended. He is now entitled to tack up his shingle and watch and wait for the clients to rush or drift in as they see. fit. Likewise during the vacation Hcib Fairall of Denver, who was in our class but left at the end of his junior year, was down to Trinidad on one or two occasions. For some time Herb has 
been associated with his father in the publishing ­of a trade paper in Denver. 
"Here at school we have almost as many Notre Dame representatives in the Michigan Law School as at the beginning of the year with the excep­tion of Joe Sotak, '40, who was forced to leave at the end of the semester and transfer to a law school — I believe it is Western Reser\'e — in Cleveland, so that he could assist his father in business. 
". . . Since you're safely married and tucked away from the scare of the draft, |Sec*s note: you don't know the Kansas draft boards] I sup­pose talk of the draft is a moot question with you. Just how I stand in Uncle Sam's new venture is questionable: my • number is 813, which un­doubtedly will be called by the beginning of sum­mer, but I'm sitting tight and hoping that I'll have at least one more year of exemption so that ril have a law degree with my name on it be­fore going through the paces. . . ." 
And then — from, of all people — George J. KevMann, 6437 N. Wayne Ave., CHiicago, or that address at last report, anyway — a letter, and an 
eight-page letter at that. 
"Even though a letter wasn't specifically re­quested from me in the last 'Alumnus,* Pm writ­ing anyway. I'm afraid that as far as making any news contributions my letter will fall a little short. Some months ago, while traveling for good or Hartford I stayed in Madison and had a good visit with Frank Parks, who was setting the law school afire — that was before Christmas, but I guess he is still in stride. 
"Spent a few days in Rhinelander not long ago, 

with Dick O'Melia and we enjoyed a review of 
Senior Ball week-end by running off the movies 
Dick took that week-end. Dick is now out at 
GIen\*iew, a suburb outside Chi, preparing for 
the aviation department of the marines. 
"OIlie Helland has been in Chi waiting to attach himself to some Army outfit. I called him but as yet have not gotten together to learn the details. Pan! KeUy has left the Insurance Ex­change. Last time I met him in the 'powder room' he was waiting for a report on his physical exam so maybe he, too, is an aviator by now. 
"Just a card from Frank Fitch from California. I hadn't seen him for a while, what with travel­ing and all, and he's suddenly out in California. Says it was very sudden. Will tell me about.it when he comes back. Of course, being the curious type, I'm going to get the details from his land­lord pronto. 
"A note from Bob Sdiroeder at CThristmas time . says he is still with International Business Ma­chines and was to be moved from Endicott some-­tiroe this month. Hope it -will be west 'cause he ­might be stationed here in town. Jack Benedict ' and John Walsh are supposed to be down in Ten­nessee now with some division of the Army. 
"I was more surprised than you will be, to hear I got a letter from Joe Dray, who has been work­ing a little (some 14 hours a day) to put I.B. • Machines in the Army forts in Texas. He's com-­ing north in a couple of weeks, so I will see ' him then. 
"Jim Gorman is going ahead in strides with Warner's in Sheboygan. I had a real bull session with him and his wife. Ruth, when I spent an evening in their town. As usual, it didn't break up until about 3 A.M. 
"As for our respective ex-roomies: I've heard nothing from either of them. Dick Anton, I sup­pose is keeping busy with the bank, school and, oh yes, it seems he has another interest! Jim claims a wife, daughter, son, home and job keep him — well, not moving fast — but moving. 
"Saw Greg Rice break his own world's record for the two mile. I've been doing a lot of riding and last Sunday out at the stables ran into Ed Brennan, '38. and Jack Hngfaes, '39, who are real advocates of the sport of kings. 
"Oh yes, and a word on yours truly. As you've gathered, I'm still with Hartford Accident and Indemnity Co., and it's a wonderful spot. I've had my questionnaire: it's gone back and I've had my physical — the government's perfect si)eci­men — and I'm 1-A. Not even a wife to let me out. So it's Army any day but I'm actually look­ing forward to it because everyone • in so far, reports that it's mighty fine experience. 
"If I'm stationed West, I'm anticipating you two to pay frequent visits." 
And if Jack's really in the West, he'd better let us know! Occasionally it happens that I get out to Riley, and if anyone ever gets there, drop me a line — we might work out a deal. 
Until next month then, let's have more letters please. 
Frank' Fildi is living at 2970 W. 14th St.. Los Angeles, Calif. California weather and a job sell­ing haberdashery in a swanky store keep Frank busy. 
Larry Satton is selling for John Sexton & Co., Chicago, wholesale grocers, in the Dallas, Texas, territory, 
Patridc "Rollie" O'Shea is in charge of divi­sional payroll for the Texas Pipeline Co., Semi­nole, Okla., a subsidiary of the Texas Co. He was at home in South Bend recently for a vacation and was a visitor in the Alumni Office on April 24. 
Private Mario Tonelli of battery A.. 26th train­ing battalion. Camp Wallace, Texas, is one of the ^ newest draftees. He had been teaching in the Chi­
cago public schools. 
From Bob Sanford: Universal Notre Dame Night took all of us back to the campus-once affoin, hut something else, even surpassing our Universal Night in bringing Notre Dame- closer to me, happened in April. On Palm Sunday morning John Dean of Milwau­kee was killed in an automobile accident. All of us knew John for more than his athletic achieve­ments; we knew him as one swell fellow, and a true Notre Dame man in every sense of the word. Jchn is the first one who stayed with us for four years.to' leave us. and we should remember him _ in all our prayers. 
It was a sad occurrence, but the actions of the Notre Dame men in Milwaukee made me proud to be one of them. There is no doubt that every one of us who knew John, feel that we have lost someone who really meant much to us. May John enjoy the Eternal Peace to which every Notre Dame man aspires. 
Letters and cards have been coming to me w^ith great regularity and it's interesting to find out what some of the "long-lost" fellows are doing. After receiving all those letters from the Chica­
-,gO:boys I decided to visit Johnny Gavan and really had a good time. Saw Tom Uoyd and Hal Sitt. Tom is still with the Naval Reserve unit and is going to school at Northwestern, and Hal has a new job, but I'm not sure of the name of the company. Met Joe Sotak later in the evening, but he wasn't in town long.. Joe expects to be called in the draft soon and so he took his sum­mer vacation a little early and was going down to Arizona to recall some happy memories. 
Spent Sunday with Ed Beinor and went riding in his new convertible Buick and had two very good meals at the Beinor home. "Big Dave" Ber­nard is in the army now and seems to be enjoy­ing it, but would like to receive some mail. His new address is Battery A, 51st Coast Artillery, Camp Callan, San Diego, Calif. Dave sends this information for all of us: "I am at Camp Cal­lan near San Diego in a new outfit, in a new camp, with new barracks, with a new bunch of fellows to start a new branch of life. 
"So far the work is steady, and hard, but quite instructive. "Die food is good and everyone sleeps from 9 PJtf. to 6. The army is really swell!*' We will write, Dave, and we are glad you like the army; we know very well that the army will always remember the day you came in. 
Red Blartin comes through with another inter­esting letter and we will let him speak for him­self: "After that last letter I wrote I don't know whether I oug^t to write again for I have found that the fellows aroimd here do read the 'Alam­nns,' and that they do read the news about each class;. Part of my letter was not received too favorably by a Mr. Peter BeiUy. . . . Needless to say, I didn't mean any harm. The other Pete In our class, Pete Bfartori, also was a little an­noyed about the letter. He claims that his wife really believed that he said he didn't have time for her. R^Iy, Mrs. Martori, he didn't say that. 
"Since the last letter the Notre Dame Club here in New York had elections and I have been elected to the Board of Governors for this year 
and also have been made assistant secretary. That is one of my reasons for writing this letter. I feel that as long as I am assistant secretary 1 might just as well send out some information at>out the fellows in this part of the country to help you out with your job. [Be sure and help me out every month, Ked.] 
"GreB Rice's races in New York were the 
< source of several good get-togethers during the winter. Tlic best of them all was the party we had after the A.A.U. meet. Besides having Greg's mother and dad with us we had Mrs. Nicholson. Atter the meet we met-Backy O'Connor, '39, and his brother, Tom, Jolie Tonameire, '39, Dave Hes­kil, '39, and Bill Donndly. '39. Curt Hester Sew in from Huskegon, Hich., where he is working for Shaw-Walker, and Steve Szamadiowski dropped in from Schenectady with his wife. 
"The Army still continues to take fellows from around these parts. Jerry Sexton has been called and I guess is on his way by this time. BIylcs Walsh and Pete Reilly are both deferred till June, when they will finish up their first year at Ford­luun. I hear that Tom Philpott is now a second lieutenant in the Marines and that he ia really in love with the service. Spealdng of the Marines, I got a letter from Dong Bangert. He is down at Jacksonville with the Marine Air Corps. Pan] Linehan and Bin Tucker are down there with him. From all reports, they are really working hard. They have to be up in the morning around five and they go to bed at nine. Gosh, we thought lights out at eleven was bad! There have been some additions to the Air Corps ranks for At Callan and Jade Rogera are both working at it. 
"Saw Vin Ryan. Hank Dowd, Joe Smaney, Jim Kelly and Hyies Walsh at the Rockne Memorial Breakfast. Vin is working for Air Reduction here in New York and commutes to Stamford every day; Hank is working for the British Purchasing Commission; Jim is working for Glenn Martin ­Aircraft in Baltimore; and, as I said before, Myks Walsh is up at Fordham law school. 
"Jimmy Brown returned from Massachusetts, a few weeics ago where he was working with ,a con­struction camp which was building. an Army camp. Now he is going to "Trinidad with the same company. It seems that Jim's dream to see the world is finally coming, true. I don't know how much he is going to see, but this will be the sUrt. 
'"Hat seems to be all, but if I have offended any one, I want him to know I really didn't mean it." 
llianks. Red, and congratulations on your new position. I'm glad you were elected my assistant. I hope some more clubs help me out. 
It appears that it is a good idea to print a few mistakes, because it results in a few extra letters. Joe Smaller wonld lilce to hear from Johnny Gavan and, in tnm, tells all of as some news: "The first mention of yours truly had to be wrong. You've got me working for "Popular Mechanics," when I'm really working on the ad­vertising staff of "Popular Science." Any other magazine might have been all right, but they are our biggest competitor. 
"As~ for the rest of the news. I've juat joined the New York Athletic Club and have been do­ing my fencing around here. I saw Bat Sayia and he and his are running his father's spice business here in New York City. Ji n Dwioghu has been at home in Jersey <^ty marking time before going into the Army. He now weiejis a. mere 195 pounds, a small shadow of his former'­self. Joe Mathey ia going to school at Cdoidbia and doing right well. Geaige Wallace is back in New York setting up an apartment in Brooklyn for himself and the new wife." 
.\ll of Joe's mail can be addressed to the New York Athletic Club, New York, N. Y. Glad to hear from you, Joe, but please don't wait till I make another mistake before you write again.. 
Good ol' Ben Mardoek follows up his last letter wiUi a correction: "I wrote you that Dick IWBaa quit 'American Tobacco Co., and is now woiUng with the Wshawaka Woolen Mfg. Co. It waa not IHck, bat Dick Garab. a '39 gradoate." 
O.K., Ben. It's a good thing that yoa correct your errors' before the fellows get to yoa Dice they took-care-.of Martiiu 
Loa Cenni. is the first of the Pre-Meda to write,' and I hope he. aets an example for the rest of yoa 
— Jack Coortaiey, Bah Ftwt, CkmA Zegiab Ed HcLanihlin, — and the rest. Loo writes: "I see Johnny Kelleher, John Flynn and Taa LeStraagc regularly. They are attending Jefferson Had School here in Philadelphia. We are all frater^ nity broth'era, but this fraternity isn't like the undergraduate fraternities; we have to work pretty hard at- med school. Johnny Kell^er had a good time at. the "Glutton Contest," hut I think h<? had better tell about that. 
"Can't write much more because we med boys are working'a-little harder than usual, and can't get around to see many fellows." 
Lou, you have written: that's more than the other fellows have done; however, 1 think the lost pre-Meds. could write some very intereatiiis letters for^ all of us. 
Doc Carran has sent that long-promised letter and it was--worth waiting for it. Doc says: '*l went down' to Orchard Park to visit my ex-roomy. Art Lancaster. While there I saw his brother,' .Leon, who was working for aone lair firm in. Buffalo. Also saw Jim SaOiraii who was, and, I guess, is, still connected with the Bell Alr^ craft' as. a timekeeper. Art had been 'working "with his father in the New York and Caban Xail'a .Buffalo office. However, since then he has joined Oie Army, for when his brother was drafted he .'gave himself up to be with Leon, lliey are both down at Fort McClellan, Ala., in the radio idiooL 
"Saw Don. Caird and understand that be has taken over his father's printing business. He was telling me that Leo Santini is now in the Army somewhere in Alabama. 
"Picked up the Sunday paper and saw that Tom Hammond had been married in a big way. Pat GoS, Joe Gcrwe and Pa d Fenian were around for the wedding, and, from what I eoald see in the paper, it was really something to aee. George Morris tells me that he is working in the law department o£ Fisher Bo^es. 
"To my great surprise I find that three of the boys have been living in Detroit since Jane and were working at General Motors in the Diesel Engine Department. They are Frank Driscall, Jaha Else and Al Kosa. Bemie Ham y is -working for Briggs; Jim Cleary is -with some diemieal com­pany in the selling end; Lloyd Bamn , ex. '40, is married. 
"As for myself, there is not much to say except that I am still single, and, doe to the strike at Ford Motors. I am still onemployed. I have touched everyone I know for a job, and so I might as well ask all of yoa; have yoa got any floors you want scrubbed for I'm just the man for it? I'll be around till 1 get in a draft" 
A few more of our lost men have been found, but only after Doe started doing a little cheeking. Thanks, Doc, and Pm looldng for another letter this next month. 
Ihe next letter is from John E. JbA (accord­ing to the heading) and Jack's letter speaks tor ..itself: "Somehow or other on thb. 'Universal 
N.D. Night, my pen leaped into my hand, and here I am reporting finally after months of restv lutions to drop 'Shorty* a line on the status qoo tomorrow. My conscience wouldn't let me rest thoo^ if I didn't add that Fm relying oa thb letter to say 'hello' to all those roomies 'who wrote and are still waiting to hear from yoars truly. 
Ihat'a eweeially for Pari HmOie Mini 
strifng roammate. Qam CSaHoL 
"If any of yoa '-toitea are inteieated. Vm laeatid once mora bade In Sooth Bend, whac* Tn cast my lot with Associates Inveatment Ci«ip«i>jr in ike role of aecoantant (Mgli auondlBg title far book­keeper). I couldn't ask toe a more interaitins job since I dsD't ddiit and credit all day hot laOcr eneooater all kinds of problems iriiidi I Bud realty interesting to solve (I should say try to solve' fw. more often than not. I have to grab some helpful ear and get a Uft. Car mmpany ia keated in some TO dties and. aa Sonlh Bn d b the haae oiHee. y«a can aee that th* gnai bat growing onder any awivd chur trying to k*9 np with a $200,000,000 enterpriae. W« vm all kinds of Ihtematinnal Badness Mariiinea In Ike woik. whidi b just me war of leadriig <v to saying that Wayae WabI b now located ia S. B. with T.BM. after completing h b trwning eoarae in the East. I met him in Smith's Caf one nifht. and I don't know which of as -was the more sor­prised. 
"I run across Jiat Ckrnui every once In a whUe. usually about 1:00 AJL coming across Liver Park Bridge: he b on hb way haae tiam an evening with h b friend, and I am on my way home. By the way. I hang my hat at 121% E. Marion St.. which b a block and a half east of the Xar-lfain drug store and. by that statement, I want to go oa record as defying any of yoa birds to crane throa t the Bend at gradnatioB or any other time -withoot signing my regbter. I mean it. Saw Ed Kcay AWy DeShiM, AI IlaaB­ey and Gcae Qaba at St. Josef's, and all lookad piosperooa enoudi alflioaA. Ed diaadtt he had the jump oa vring and looked half-fnsea ia just a suit eoat. Too kaow the hideoas -wind — and need I say say nmreT [Quinn, sinee he fialJied ia Fdamary. baa been -wwUng fall time ia the Alumni OIBee. eoBetBtraUag on placement aa as­sistant to one Daefcy. Torn between aa imminest draft can and the Naral Air Corps, he's about swnng over to fiie latter.—Eda.] 
"Jae Saitia b working on hb master's at school and teaching a Uttle oil the dde. Jaaa Oatn a b going great; didng experimental woA oa a acw type airplaoe engine. Walt Diay b emlimrlBg at BenSx and. when I last ran into hia. ha -waa heading into Adler's for a new suit, to give yon a hint on h b statoa. 
"The Oliver Coffee Shop really b ban BOW fliat IBka Kdt y and Kca CalHas were rooted out of acria last Fdruary. lOke b having the kaot tied by lH*a» (VBara the day after gradaatioa in Om Jliog Chapd -with Xea abted to be the best maa. Sure, no one elae but IGss K. O'Hara of laAan­apolb b to complete the combination. 
"Big Ed (Harty) Dayls Aaerted the ima i of Dolaai in favor of a prodnetioa toauuu in Valparaiso; lad. He's been pnanising to sit over here for three monUis now for that boil Marion, bat as yet hasn't been ri^itad oa Walgma'a comer. Bid Mutia b also <m my dcUmoait cor­respondenea Ust. so here's hoping he se a HI*, and thus knows I haven't forgotten Ua laflialy advice on evnything bom how to eatdi traias on time (are yoa fallowing. Cart lIialirT) to hoar to take care of more important mattara. 
"I widi 'Babn' BabiMtt would say a faw words to the 'Alunmmf for mj boielit. 'Woodir if he's itm sot that traaibane oiled vp. FOor Clevelandr' 
Jim CMUME writes to Ifaiir Indi a at Fur-due who rdays hb news to us. Jtaa baa biaa training since the ilrst of the year ia Oa Amy Air Corps. Hb addrea b F/O J.T.C.. Snoadna B; Air Cotpa Basie Flying School. Guator IMd. •ontgoawry, Ala. 
SEND THAT BOY TO COLLEGE 
{Editorial) 
Maybe he's yours. 

Maybe he's a younger brother, or a nepheu". 
Maybe he's the son of someone you know who isn't a college man. 
Urge him to go to college if he can. 
This is not an argument from enrolment emergency. As a matter of figures, in spite of economic uncertainty, Notre Dame's registration for the ne.\t school year is equal to that of last year, and is nearing the quota figure for freshmen. 
It is only himian for parents to want to do some­thing that will add to the safetv and the progress of a child. 
It is only human, in these times, to be unusually cautious about spending, whether out of savings or out of income or out of borrowing. 
And it is the very human line of least resistance to look at the jobs opening up for high school graduates and to wonder whether the sacrifice of this job-oppor­tunity, and the further expenditure of money on higher education, is worth while. 
Well it seems that higher education will never be more worth while. 
This is an era in which investment in the right kind of a college training is the one certain and safe dis­position of money. 
Nothing should interfere with a boy's opportunity for college today, except it be the definite financial inability of his parents or himself to provide the means, or the exigencies of conscription. And this latter should be established in the mind of the boy as only a tem­porary leave from the path of learning. 
Why? 

Economic, political and professional practices, and even philosophies, are being shaken in many countries and in many cases, to the point of upset. 
Material goods of peoples which have escaped con­fiscation entirely are being taxed in increasing measure to protect them against threats of confiscation. 
Jobs today that clamor for men can, overnight, shut the cold doors of factory or office on those men. 
What, then, is a proper endowment for a boy? 
What else will last, that cannot be taken away, e.xcept religion and education? 
Not only will his faith sustain him if his intellect can aid him in its constantly new applications and de­mands. But in the motivations of faith, guided by trained intellects, lies the only hope of your boy's ultimate escape from chaos. 
Money for guns, and money for ships, and money for planes will be poured into his immediate, urgent protection from imminent physical threat. 
But that money is not half so important to his last­ing peace as the money that, in far less measure, is asked for the fortification of his soul and his mind. The Maginot and the Siegfried lines may be of steel or paper strength. 
It is only his soul and mind that, properly fortified, are unconquerable. 
A Catholic college education for a boy today mul­tiplies its former values. It gives him all of the advan­tages that have always accrued to higher education — professional training, culture, spiritual benefits, friend­ships, and so on. 
But in addition to all those invaluable qualities, in­herent for years, the Catholic college today arms its alumni for the new wars with the most effective weapons. 
The Catholic college offers to its alumni of these and coming years the outlook of leadership in the new order that ultimately must be fotmded on the only per­manent base for peace, — the principles of Christianity, implemented by the practices of educated Christians. 
So, if you have any influence on any boy who may be hesitating to accept an opportunity for college edu­cation now, urge him to seize it. 
No item of national defense for America equals in importance the rising demand for the type of leader that the Catholic colleges and universities train. 
These Catholic colleges and universities are at the same time doing everything possible in the immediate fields of actual defense preparation, and will aid the student to meet any immediate demands that may be made on him, to his own advantage. 
For detaib of Notre Dame's courses, write The Registrar, Notre Dame, Indiana. 







