The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 33, No. 1 
January-Februarv 1935 
James E. Arnistrons, '25 Editor 
John X. Cacklcy, Jr., '3 Managing Editor 
Father Lawrence G. BrocstI, C.S.C.. addressed Cleveland alumni and their guests at the club's annual nnnmion Hreakfast. See story on page 3. and Chd) Xews on pages 14-20 for additional reports. 

Statue of "Notre Dame, Our Lady of the University" 
is erected at campus main entrance. (L. to R.) Fathers 
Joyce, Hesburgh and Moore at dedication. 
Father .Vnthony Lauck, C.S.C., was the sculptor. 

ND Placement Director William R. Dooley Dies 
The untimely death of William R. Dooley, '26, on December 25 was a great shock to Notre Dame alumni, many of whom had enjoyed close as­sociation with him at the University since 1933. The end came after un­expected complications developed fol­lowing an operation. He under%vent suiter)' in South Bend's Memorial Hospital on December 3. 
Bill's deep affection for Notre Dame was manifested in the highly capable manner in which he served tlie Uni-
WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, '26 
versity for 21 years, fii-st in die Alumni Office and later as Placement Director. From 1933 until 1949 he was manag­ing editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus magazine and assistant alumni secre­tary. The Rev. John J. Ca\'anaugh, C.S.C, tlien president of the Univer­sity, appointed Bill to head tlie newly-organized Placement Bureau in 1950. 
The quiet way in which he worked so effectively could almost have been misleading to those who didn't know Bill Dooley well. His ability to work harmoniously with people and situa­tions was one of tlie outstanding fac­tors in his success. 
Degree in Journalism 
Bill left Notre Dame in 1926 with a degree in Journalism, having had the distinction of being editor-in-chief of the Scholastic. He was also a member of the Notre Dame glee club. Before returning to the campus as an em­
2 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jmtiuary-February, 1955 
ployee in 1933 Bill had been a member of die Peoria (111.) Journal-Tra/iscript staff, was publicity and advertising di­rector for tlie Northern Indiana Public Ser\'ice Co., and did sales promotion for the AS'estem Clock Co. in his home town of LaSalle, 111. 
As Placement Director Bill was the University's chief representative in maintaining emplojinent contacts with business and industrj' all over the countr)'. An important part of his work was to receive hundreds of com­pany officials who visited the campus, annually, to interview graduating sen­iors for prospective emplo)'ment. The amazing growth, in four short years, of the Placement Bureau's prestige and invaluable assistance to students, alum­ni and leading corporations can be wholly attributed to tlie indefatigable efforts of Bill Dooley. In 1954 more than 3,000 student interviews were conducted tiirough his office by 200 representatives from business and in­dustry'. 
Bill was a devout parishioner of St. Joseph Church in South Bend. His sense of responsibility also extended outside official University duties. This Fall he was elected vice-president of the Parent-Teacher Association of St. Joseph Parochial School and he be­longed to the parish's Nocturnal Ad­oration Society. 
Funeral Mass in Sacred Heart 
Funeral services and a requiem High Mass were held December 27 in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. He is survived by his \s'idow, Katherine; two sons, Charles T., of Castro Valley, Calif., and Martin, at 
MEMORIAL TO BILL EXDOLEY 
The Board of Directors of the International Register Co., Chicago III., recently passed a resolution setting up a ^500 fund in memory of William R. Dooley. Mr. Harry 
A. Jones, director of personnel, stated, ".. . in the short time that we had the pleasure of kno^ving Mr. Dooley, we came to respect him not only as an educator but one who contributed greatly to the successful blending of college graduates into the fields of in­dustry. . . ." 
home; three daughters, Mary an ^ 
Bridgit, at home, and Ellen, a studen^ 
at Marquette University; two brothei* 
John, of Detroit, and J. Edward, ofi 
LaSalle, 111.; and two grandchildren^ 
The family residence is located ac^ 
402 Peashway St., South Bend, Indi^ 
ana.—J.N.C. 

PRIESTS OBSERVE JUBILEES AT N.D. 
Two Holy Cross priests noted or­dination jubilees in 1954. They are the Rev. Lawrence V. Broughal, C.S.C, a priest for 50 years, and Father Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C, who oh served his silver jubilee. 
A native of County Kildare, Ireland, Father Broughal from 1920 to 1951 taught English and philosophy at the University of Notre Dame. He entered tlie Canadian province of the Holy Cross Congregation in 1902 and was or^ dained on Dec. 21, 1904, at Chatham New Brunswick, Can. Before joining tlie Notre Dame faculty, he ser\'cd on the faculties of St. Joseph's University College, New Brunswick, Can., and St. Laurent College, Montreal. He re­ceived his master's degree at Quebec's Laval Universit)' in 1920. A former moderator of the Scholastic, Father Broughal in 1931 supervised the rcdec­oration of Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. He has also served as chaplain at Our Lady oi i Princeton Novitiate, Princeton, N. J., and at an institution of die Medical Mission Sisters in Mountain View, Calif. On the day of his Solemn Ju­bilee Mass he was honored by his fel­low priests at a luncheon on campus. 
Father Thomas J. Brennan—a phil­osophical scholar and an expert on Dante—has been a professor of philos­ophy at the University of Notre Dame since 1931. Captain of the 1922 Irish baseball team and a 1923 Notre Dam' graduate. Father Brennan received his Ph.D. at Gregorian University, Rome, in 1925. He took his doctorate in sacred theology from the Angelico Col­lege, Rome, in 1929. From 1928 to 1931 he taught philosophy at the Uni­versity of Portland. 
For many years curator of Notre Dame's extensive Dante collection. Father Brennan, a popular campus fig­ure, has been regularly invited to speak at student pep rallies on the eve oi' Notre Dame's home football games. 


Distinguished Professors ^ Appointed to N.D. Faculty 
Corporate Gifts Underwrite New Program 
Fourteen Distingubhed Professor ap­pointments to the Notre Dame faculty have been recently announced by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesbuigh, C.S.C., 

If president of tlie University. Financial support from corporations has made it possible to supplement tlie present fac­ulty with tliese additional outstanding scholars. In 1954, Father Hesbuigh emphasized that corporations would be asked to underwrite the addition of 45 distinguished professors to the Notre Dame staff. 
Father Hesburgh stated that the group will be in three categories: (1) Lecture series or occasional lectures; j(2) Semester appointments; (3) Per­manent appointments. Progress of the Distinguished Professors Program rap­idly developed last summer when Father Hesburgh and the Rev. Paul 
E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, visited fifteen famous European universities to meet their most distinguished scholars with the hope that some of these men would accept faculty positions. Simultaneous­ly with Fathers Hesburgh and Beich­.ner's trip, the Rev. Philip S. Moore, 
' C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs and his Committee on Faculty were studying the possibili­ties of Distinguished Professor appoint­ments witliin the United States. 
Those professors who will be at No­tre Dame for a lecture series or an oc­casional lecture include the following: 
Dr. A. P. d'Entreves—eminent nat­ural law scholar, educated at Univer­isity of Turin and Oxford; 
William O. Douglas—associate jus­tice of die Supreme Court of the United States, has been a member of Columbia and Yale law school faculty; 
Sir Richard Livingstone—authority on ancient Greece and its influence on modem education, former vice-chan­cellor of Oxford University, England; 
Arnold J. Toynbee — dbtinguished Britbh hbtorian, has lectured in the 
•united States since 1947. 
Semester appointments to the fac­ulty consbt of: 
Dr. Joseph A. Becker (September, 1954)—^noted research physicist, spe­cialist in surface physics at Bell Tele­phone Laboratories since 1924; 
Dr. Robert C. Turner (September, 1954) — authority on business-govern­ment relationships, former presidential economic advbor, professor at Indiana University since 1948; 
Rev. Martin C. D'Arcy, S.J. (Feb­ruary, 1955) — dbtingubhed British philosopher and theologian, formerly provincial of the Society of Jesus in England; 
Rev. Philip Hughes (February, 1955)—the outstanding hbtorian of the Church writing in Englbh, inter­nationally recognized for hb three-volume History of the Church; 
Fritz Fbcher (February, 1955)—db­tingubhed German hbtorian, professor at the University of Hamburg since Worid War II. 
Permanent appointments include: 
Dr. Vladimir Seidel (September, 1954)—^noted mathematician, profes­sor of mathematics at the University of Rochester since 1935; 
Bernard C. Barth (September, 1954) —^vice-president and general manager of Notre Dame's radio and televbion stations, 18 years experience in radio and televbion; 
Dr. Charles Brambel (February, 1955)—^new head of Notre Dame's department of biology, noted biologbt and biochemist, faculty member at University of Maryland Medical School since 1948; 
Dr. G. F. D'Alelio (February, 1955) —recently-appointed head of Notre Dame's chembtry department, former vice-president and manager of re­search for the Koppers Company, Inc., holds more than 300 patents; 
Ivan Mestrovic (September, 1956) —celebrated sculptor, professor and sculptor in residence at Syracuse Uni­versity since 1947. 
1955 
DATES TO REMEMBER 
Universal Notre Dame Night, April 18, 1955 
Commencement, June 5, 1955 
Class Reunions, June 10, 11, 12, 1955 


Annual Observance of Communion Breakfasts By Many Alumni Clubs 
Notre Dame Clubs throughout the country held their annual corporate Communions and breakfasts on Dec. 5­12-19, and many of these events were attended by university staff members. 
Mrs. Rnute Rockne and Mrs. Charles E. ("Gus") Dorab were guests of honor at the Detroit event which followed a memorial Mass for Dorab and Rockne. The Rev. Edmimd P. Joyce represented the university. Bbh­op Alan Babcock delivered the sermon at the Mass. 
George Dickson, assbtant Irish grid coach, spoke in Philadelphia, and Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C., of the university faculty was present for the Chicago fete. The Rev. Lawrence Broesd, C.S.C, of Notre Dame, was the featured speaker in Cleveland. Frank Gaul was breakfast chairman. Gotham's police commbsioner, Francis 'W. H. Adams, and the famed "Water­front priest," Father John J. Corriden, were the guest speakers for the New York City Club. The Pittsburgh breakfast was held at the Toner Insti­tute, with Father Regb P. Krah, the Institute's director, being the main speaker. Houston's Notre Dame men heard Father Guinan, the president of St. Thomas University. National League Umpire Bill Stewart spoke for the Boston breakfast. 
Other clubs reporting annual Com­munion breakfasts to the Alumni o£Bce were those of Baltimore, Buffalo, Kan­sas City, Mo., Los Angeles, South Jer­sey, Wabash Valley, Washington, D. C, Western Washington, Dayton, Cen­tral New York, Columbus, the Con­necticut Valley, Kenosha-Racine, San Antonio, the Tri-Cities, Tulsa, Flint, Mich., St. Loub, and New Orleans. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 



Two Holy Cross Priests Die During Fall Months 
Rev. Joseph H. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., '40, tlie author of Evidence for Our Faith, and head of the University of Notre Dame Religion Department, died Nov. 11 after an illness of sev­eral montlis. 
A specialist in the development of 
FATHER CAVANAUGH 

theolog)' in the Patristic period, he was a member of the American Theological Society. 
Studied at Laval University 
The 37-year-old priest was a native of Harpers Ferry, la. He entered the Holy Cross Congregation in 1934, made his final profession six years later, and was ordained on June 24, 1944. Following his ordination. Fa­ther Cavanaugh studied at Laval Uni­versity, Quebec, Canada, where he received the degree of doctor of theol­ogy in 1946, the same year in whicli he joined the University of Notre Dame faculty. 
Surviving Fatlier Cavanaugh are tivo brothers and four sisters, including Sister Joan Marie of the Sisters of Mercy, Cedar Rapids, la. 
Rev. ComeUus Laskowski, C.S.C., '33, former English-philosophy instruc­tor at the University of Notre Dame and one of the most brilliant speakers 
4 Notre Dame Alumnus^ January-February, 1955 
on its staff, died Oct. 30, 1954, in the 
students' infirmary here. 
A native of South Bend, Ind., Father Laskowski entered Holy Cross Sem­inar}' at the University of Notre Dame on Sept. 2, 1924. He recited his final vows July 2, 1932, and was ordained on June 24, 1937. 


Received Master's Degree 
Father Laskowski earned a master's degree in education at New York State College for Teachers in Albany in 1939. A chaplain at the Vincentian Institute in Albany from 1937 to 1938, he began teaching in 1938 and in 1941 went to New York City where he con­tinued his studies and simultaneously 
FATHER LASKOWSKI 

served as chaplain at Manhattanville College. He returned as a teacher to Notre Dame in 1944. At one time he served as faculty moderator for the Scholastic and as moderator of the Chopin Fine Arts Club in South Bend. After his health failed he became chap­lain of the student infirmary. 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notit: Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1913. 


Centennial at St. Mary's College 
The centennial observance of St| Mary's College, which commemorates' the 100th anniversary of the issuing oH its state charter, opened in Januaryj­with a Pontifical High Mass for mem-] bers of the faculty, the community, and the student body. It was held in con­junction witli the unveiling of a statue, "Christ the Teacher," purchased for the proposed $1,000,000 Fine Artsf Building. Groundbreaking rites for th« | new edifice will be on Feb. 28. 
Celebration dates for the centennial year will include April 23—^Holy Cross Day, the anniversary of the blessing of the first campus building, and the day on which St. Mary's will dedicate its new $625,000 science hall; May 3— anniversary ceremonies for members of the Holy Cross Community; June 4 —centenary commencement exercises; Jime 10-13—centenar)' alumnae re-, union; and Oct. 13—^Founder's da>*- J| noting the founding of the Holy Cross Congregation. The centenarj' observ­ance will formally close Dec. 9 with the dedication of tlie new Fine Arts Building. 
St. Mary's College was the nation's first legally authorized Catholic wom­en's college and is "a monument to the self-sacrificing labors of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, working with no otlier endowment than their dedicated lives." 
R. S. Lynch Honored by State of Pennsylvania 
R. S. L)'nch, of Atlanta, Ga., At­lantic Steel Company president and member of Notre Dame's Science and Engineering Council, has received the State of Pennsylvania's Ambassador. Award for "outstanding acliievemenl in the best traditions of the common­wealth." The presentation was made by his native state in Vandergrift, Pa. An additional honor was conferred upon him by the Society of the Ad­vancement of Management when he re­ceived the Human Relations Award for 1954. The latter is given annually in recognition of outstanding contribu­tions to the advancement of human relations. Mr. Lynch has been presi­dent of Atlantic Steel Co., since 1947.* 
ity to faith and friends that was re­flected in the lives of Bill Dooley, Father Cavanaugh and Father Las­kowski. Fred Suite's appearances at the 
tdUoniai eom*m*th Alumni Secretary  *'°""'°"' Notre Dame home football games were 
The living make great and vital con­tributions to Notre Dame, in many ways. 
But much of the greatness, much of the distinction, much of the growth of Notre Dame comes from the contribu­
tions of the dead. 
We are pressed, and impressed, this month by our obit­uaries. ^Ve are pressed by space completely inade­quate to express tlie tributes that should be paid to 
Jim Armstrong 

the Notre Dame men we have lost. We are impressed by the richness of the pages they have written into the histor>' of Notre Dame. AVe are impressed by the great common denominator of faidi that unites a striking diversity and individuality. 
It seems at this year's end of 1954 that Our Lady, to Whom the year meant so much, chose it to extend honors to some of her favorite sons, as the University honors with its doc­torates an annual list of friends who are outstanding. 
It is perhaps the youth of the group who occupy our minds at this time that lends life to this thought. 
* Bill Dooley, who helped to shape this magazine for many years as its manag­ing editor, was, at 52, the oldest of the group who have died so recently. Bill was launched on a promising career in his chosen field of journalism when the depression crushed the structure of which he was a part. Notre Dame was then looking for a man with his quali­fications to expand the program of alumni work. It would be difficult to find a more satisfying union of man 'and institution. Notre Dame had not only taught Bill Dooley the way of life, but to him it was its best environment. At Notre Dame he not only knew and loved this way of life, but lived it, himself and his family. Many jobs crossed his desk as placement director which would have advanced his eco­nomic status materially, but Bill's dedi­cation to Notre Dame was based on values far beyond the material. The solemn requiem Mass in Sacred Heart 
^(Ghurch that marked the last tangible visit of Bill Dooley to the campus he loved was a magnificent symbol of the reward which the Church and Notre Dame can offer to such dedication. It was, at once, the praise of the world for a job well done, and a bright new contract for eternity. 
In the death of two young priests. Rev. Joseph Cavanaugh, C.S.C., and Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., the Congregation of Holy Cross lost two of its most promising young men. Father Cavanaugh had early shown intellectual strength in his studies and in his teaching, and administrative ca­pacity in his duties as head of the de­partment of religion and as rector of several of the residence halls. In the vital area of a proper ratio of religious to lay faculty, the loss comes with more than the ordinary force of death. Even more tragic, in a sense, is the loss of Father Laskowski. He possessed one of those rare talents of combining a magnificent mind with an outstanding power of orator)' in its finest sense. He was already sought after in key places for his speaking. And none who heard the beauty of the teachings of Notre Dame enhanced by the beauty of his expression will forget the experience. But in the long malady which brought the cross of silence to his preaching, the contribution he made to the cam­pus in his heroic Christian acceptance of suffering was the most eloquent ser­mon of his life. 
Fred Miller was not only a great athlete, and a great patron of sports in many phases, but his physical con­dition and \'itality made him one of the most active, traveled and best con­ditioned business executives in Amer­ica. Fred Suite, on the contrary, was in an iron lung shortly after his gradua­tion, and received only short hours of freedom from it for the rest of his life. Public interest in the lives and deaths of these two men was high because of the headlines they had made, and be­cause each was a vivid personality in the list of young Americans of wealth. Both had admirers because they had by-passed the apathy of economic se­curity to live the fullest possible per­sonal and family lives. 
AVhat fellow Notre Dame men ad­mired in them was the same high fidel­more like pilgrimages than football trips. The lesson of his own smiling way-of-the-cross gave to Saturday aft­ernoon in the stadium a power more like Sunday morning in the Church. No one will ever measure the impact that Fred Snite made by his seemingly limited life. To us in the Alumni Of­fice, one of the most significant of the many phases of the active life that preceded Fred Miller's tragic death was a little paragraph from the Cath­olic press. The weekend before the fatal crash, Fred had arranged a re­treat, which he attended, with one of his sons, business associates, and the two pilots who were to die with him within days. 
There have been many deaths in the 

history of Notre Dame. And many 
great lessons rest in the memories of 
Notre Dame men from the Commu­
nity Cemetery to the cemeteries and 
battlefields of the world. 
But it does seem as though, in this 

Marian Year of 1954, not only has 
Our Lady chosen to honor some of Her 
favorite sons, but as though they, in 
their acknowledgment of the honor, 
have made an immortal contribution 
to Her in their embodiment of the vir­
tues that Notre Dame, Her University, 
has championed over the years. 
Pray for them, and for all the dead of Notre Dame, but pray especially that Notre Dame may continue to pro­duce such men. 
—/I'm Armstrong 


Democratic Leader 

Paul M. Buder, '27, South Bend, Ind., was recently named Chairman of the Democratic National Commit­tee at a meeting held in New Orleans, La. Paul is a past president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and was president of the South Bend Association of Commerce in 1946. He is a member of the law firm of Jones, Obenchain and Butler, and received his law degree from Notre Dame. The newly-elected chairman of the Demo­cratic Party is married and the father of five children, Maureen, 19, Paul, Jr., 18, Karen, 16, Kevin, 15, and Brian, 13. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, January'FebTuary, 1955 5 
i 
"VT-'""'" 
». •^"^%- ">, 
a



/<:c^' ^ ^%^ 
;4"Kr 

Justice Douglas Talks to Lawyers 
Supreme Court Justice William 0. Douglas addressed students and faculty members at the University of Uotra Dame law School. He was introduced hy Dean Joseph O'Meara, Jr. His lecture was sponsored hy the Law School and the St. Joseph County Bar Association. Douglas asserted that the "tremendous load of taxes" makes it difficult for lawyers and other professional people to set aside a period of their lives for puhlic service. But he warned that government "must not end up in the hands of adventurers and those who have inherited wealth." Douglas urged the Notre Dame law students to carve out a portion of their career for puhlic service. 

Nobel Prize Winner Lectures at N.D. 
. Professor Peter J. W. Dehye, v/in­ner of the Uohel Prize in chemistry in 1936, delivered the P. C. Reilly lectures at the University of Hotre Dame in November. Dr. Dehye-was head of the chemistry department at Cor­nell University from 1940-50 and con­tinues to conduct research there. 
The annual lecture series is made possible hy a gift of the late Peter 
C. Eeilly. Indianapolis, Ind., in­dustrialist. Mr. Reilly was a lay trustee of the University of Notre Dame from 1935 until his death in 1952. 

Television and the Public Library 
Acquiring a television set seem.s to have "no permanent adverse effect upon use of the puhlic library," ac­cording to a study recently completed hy a University of Notre Dame librar­ian. 
"Television set ownership results in reduced use of the public library, especially by persons forty or more years of age," the survey shows, "but this decrease in library use is tem­porary, lasting a year or less." 
This is one of the principal find­ings of Notre Dame librarian Donald 
6 Noire Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
W. Johnson based upon two-and-a-half years of research of the Free Public library of Montclair, New Jersey. Johnson's research was recently sub­mitted in the form of a dissertation to the Graduate Library School of the University of Chicago. 

Ill Health Causes Prof. Northcott to Retire 
The appointment of Dr. Harold Elli­thom as head of Notre Dame' s depart­ment of electrical engineering was an­nounced recently by the Rev. Philip 
S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs at the University. Ellithorn succeeds Pro­fessor John A. Northcott who relin­quished the post for reasons of health. Northcott, who joined the Notre Dame staff in 1922 and became department head in 1939 has retired and his ad­dress is c/o B. F. Boothe, Wakefield, Ya. 

American Education Week Observances 
"The glory that was Greece" was the theme of a brilliant Festival of the Arts held at the University of Notre Dame. The Festival highlighted Notre Dame's observance of American Education Week. 
Nearly a hundred authentic pieces of Greek sculpture and other objects dating from about 800 B. C. to 200 B. C. were on view in the galleries of the O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. 
Dr. Rhys Carpenter who is pro­fessor of classical archaeology at Bryn Mawr College, spoke on "The Spirit of Classic Art." For seven years he was the director of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens. 
The Festival featured Margaret Mower the distinguished English act­ress in readings from Greek drama. 
The musical highlight of the Fes­tival of the Arts was the Notre Dame Glee Club's presentation of "Orpheus.'' an opera by Christoph Willibald van Gluck. 
.-<=^\ 
fcami>%./ 
• > •-,; 

1 iiiin«i,; I 

Moot Court Competition 
Supreme Court Justices of five 
states presided at the fifth annual 
Moot Court Competition of the Notre 
Dame College of Law. The two winners 
represented the UniTersity at the re­
gional moot court competition in Chi­
cago. 

Hearing the final arguments and 
selecting the winners were Chief Jus­
tice George W. Bristow of the Supreme 
Court of Illinois; Chief Justice Hor­
ace Stern of the Supreme Court of Penn­
sylvania; Chief Justice Carl V. Wey­
gandt of the Supreme Court of Ohio; 
Justice Frank E. Gilkison of the Sup­
reme Court of Indiana; and Justice 
Harry F. Kelly of the Supreme Court 
of Michigan. The Notre Dame Moot Court 
is a student organization with the 
ohjective of providing experience in 
appellate practice for law students. 

Missionary Sister Does Leprosy Research 
Sister Marie Suzanne, a Maris! 
missionary Sister from France and a 
veteran of forty-five years in the 
fight against leprosy, recently toli 
Notre Dame scientists of a new vaccine 
she has developed to combat the dread 
disease. 

After fifteen year's research. Sister Marie Suzanne succeeded in iso­lating a germ similar to the bacilli which causes Hansen's Disease or lep­rosy. A vaccine prepared from the new­ly discovered organism-named Myco­bacterium Marianum in her honor by fellow scientists—is now being tested in all parts of the world v/here lep­rosy takes its toll. Stressing that conclusive results have not yet been obtained. Sister Marie Suzanne, never­theless, acknov/ledges that there are indications that the vaccine is-rs. successful preventative and thera­peutic agent. 

Memorial issue for Dr. Gurian 
Editors of Notre Dame's REVIEW OF POLITICS have announced plans for a memorial issue in honor of the late Waldemar Gurian, founder and editor of the quarterly publication who died in 1954. The January issue of the RE­VIEW will consist largely of tributes to Dr. I Gurian and evaluations of his life's vrork by noted scholars in the United States and abroad. Among those contributing articles to the memorial issue are Jacques Maritain, the emin­ent Thomist philosopher; John U. Nef, University of Chicago; Philip Mosely, 
Columbia University and Hans Kohn, 
City College of New York. 

Valuable Manuscript Bequeathed to ND 
An early fifteenth century manu­
script of the entire Latin Vulgate 
Bible has been bequeathed to the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame by the late Very. 
Rev. Urban de Basque of Oklahoma City. ' 
Okla. Father' de Basque received an 
honorary Doctor of Laws degree from 
Notre Dame in 1918. 
The Bible is written on very fine 
vellum and is in an excellent state 
of preservation. The volume has been 
rebound once in the last five himdred 
years; its present binding is parch­
ment. 


The Archbishop John F. O'Hara Lectures 
By 1970 Americans v;ill be earning 
40% more and buying 40% more but 
working about five hours less each 
week, according to. a prediction made 
recently by a former presidential ad­
visor currently teaching at the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame. 
Dr. Robert C. Turner visiting pro­
fessor in the University's College of 
Commerce forecast that within fifteen 
years the United States will have a 
total national output "in excess of 
600 billion dollars" as compared with 
365 billions in 1953. His address on 
"The American Economy in 1970" was 
the first of the Archbishop John F. 
O'Hara lectures for 1954-55. 

Rare Books Purchased for Library 
Notre Dame has purchased a collect­ion of approximately 1,500 books on the history of universities from Dr. Anson Phelps Stokes, Lenox, Mass. according to Victor Schaefer, director of the University Libraries. Dr. Stokes, who began gathering the col­lection in 1922, is a former Secretary of Yale University and Canon' of the Episcopal Cathedral in Washington, D. C. 
The Stokes collection includes some two hundred rare and highly prized volumes, many of them published in the early sixteenth century. Other books in the collection although deal­ing with universities founded in the Middle Ages, were printed some time later. Included in the collection are about 250 histories, of American col­leges and universities. 
Noire Dame Alumnus^ January-February, 1955 .7 
FREDERICK C. MILLER, '29 
PLANE CRASH KILLS FRED MILLER, SON 
Notre Dame lost one of its greatest friends when flames that suddenly en­gulfed his private plane Dec. 17 killed Milwaukee Brewer)' President Fred­erick C. Miller, '29, Knute Rockne's 1928 grid captain and a volunteer as­sistant coach for Frank Leahy from 1943 to 1953. 
Perishing with Miller were his son, Fred, Jr., a Notre Dame Junior, who was a member of the Irish track team as a Sophomore and former all-state halfback in AVisconsin, and two pilots. The group was en route to Can­ada for a hunting vacation. 
A director of Milwaukee's baseball Braves, a stockholder and director of Green Bay's grid Packers, and presi­dent of his city's Association of Com­merce, Fred Miller, during his days as an Irish volimteer coach flew from Milwaukee to South Bend once or twice a week during the football sea­son. 
The week end prior to the plane ac­cident, he arranged and attended a re­treat at the Redemptorist seminary at Oconomowoc. Making the retreat with him were his pilots, Joseph and Paul Laird; his son, Carl, and a number of business associates. 
Fred played tackle on die 1926-27­28 Irish teams. He was a devout Cath­olic, and a standout booster of all things Notre Dame. 
Surviving Fred are theTOdow, Adele, sLx daughters, a son, his mother and four sisters. 

S yotre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
Marian Year at ND 
University Rededicated to Our Lady 
The University of Notre Dame's Marian Year observance was climaxed Dec. 8 by the rededication of the Uni­versity to Our Lady and the placing of a seven-foot statue-—"Notre Dame, Our Lady of the Universit)'"—at die entrance to tlie campus. The Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., university president, officiated at the rites. 
The seven-foot white limestone statue portrapng the Virgin Mary as a young woman, the work of the Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame Art department, is intended to express a welcome to students and vdsi­tors as diey arrive at the campus en­trance. 

The Marian Year at the university featured three parallel programs—the religious, the theological, and the ar­tistic—^which attracted members of the Hierarchy and Catholic scholars from all over die country. Spring and sum­mer events were higlilighted by the opening of the Vocational Institute, at which Cardinal Samuel Stritch of Chi­cago preached and presided in the presence of Archbishop Paul C. Schulte of Indianapolis, and Bbhop William MuUoy of Covington. 
Seven hundred fifty superiors and novice mistresses of women's religious communities attended the Spirituality Institute which closed Aug. 10 with a sermon at the campus grotto by Auxil­iary Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort 
WajTie. 
The lectures, congresses, and sym­posia which comprised die theological program featured talks and papers by such scholars and dignitaries as Auxil­iary Bishop John P. Cody of St. Jo­seph, Mo.; author Daniel Sargent; the Rev. E. K. Ziegler, Catholic University of America; Uie Rev. Franz Dvomik of the Harvard Research Center, Dun­barton Oaks; the Very Rev. Monsignor 
H. Francis Daws, Oscott College, Eng­land; the Rev. Cario Balio, O.F.M., president of the International Marian Academy and head of the Scotist Com­mission, Rome; the Rev. Wenceslaus Sebastian, O.F.M., Edmonton, Can­ada; the Rev. Joseph Montalveme, O.F.M., of the Scotist Commission, Rome; the Very Rev. Monsignor Charles Joumet, Fribourg, Switzer­land (paper read in absentia); the Rev. Urban Mullaney, O.P., AVashing­ton, D. C ; Dr. Charles De Koninck]\. Laval University, Quebec, Canaida; the Rev. Walter Buighardt, S.J., Wood­stock College, Mar>'land; the Rev. Fer­rer Smith, O.P., Washington, D. C ; and the Verj' Rev. George Shea, Dar­lington, N. J. 
Solemn functions held in honor of 

the Immaculate Conception included 
special student processions and Rosary 
devotions. The religious programs in­
cluded a series of Marian sermons to, 
the students in Sacred Heart churck^v. 
during the spring semester. 
The artisdc program—begun in De­cember, 1953—boasted an exhibit of primitive and Renaissance Italian Ma­donnas from the collection of John Cuneo and Richard E. Berlin. A sec­ond exhibit of Marian art from the University's permanent collections was given during the spring, and a showing of Marian \yorks by Notre Dame art students was presented in the fall. 
Music was also included on the pro-V. gram. A Mediaeval mysterj' play on the Annunciation—translated, adapted, and set to music by the Rev. John Gal­lagher, C.S.C., of Notre Dame—was performed in Sacred Heart Church by a special choir directed by , Dudley Birder of South Bend. In addition, a concert Mass—Nostra Domina a Lacu —composed by Carl Mathes of Notre Dame's department of music, was sung under the direction of the Rev. Wil­liam McAuliffe, C.S.C., also of the/ imiversity. 
The lectures given at the University of Notre Dame during the Marian Year are being gathered in two vol­umes, whicli will appear diis year. One, The Mystery of the Woman, will be a study of the role of the Blessed Virgin in the life of the Churcli. The other. The Immaculate Conception, will in­clude not only the lectures on this sub­ject given at the university but other chapters also. A 
Fred Snite Dies After ^18 Years in Iron Lung 
FRED SNITE, JR., '33 
*' The man who for 18 years made his crude iron prison "a symbol of hope and courage for sufferers and a pulpit of insti-uction for all the men and women of the world" died in \Vest Palm Beach, Fla., Nov. 12, 1954, but his memory will never die on the cam­pus of the University of Notre Dame. He was Fred Snite, Jr., '33, the "boiler kid," the world's most famous polio patient whose unparalleled courage 
•was a tribute to his Catholic faith and /th e University that nurtured it. 
He showed that "obedience to God's will is not to be identified with weak­ness but with tlie utmost strength," praised Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at Fred's funeral Mass. 
Snite was stricken with infantile paralj-sis in Peiping, China, while on a world tour in 1936. Condemned to spend a life of pain in a cumbersome iron lung, this "Fifth Horseman of Notre Dame" showed indomitable 
• {courage. Instead of pitying himself he "took up bridge and chess." His spe­cial trailer in which he traveled throughout the nation (and the world) was a familiar sight at the north ramp of Notre Dame stadium at home games. He was, indeed, one of Notre Dame's all-time great com­petitors. Fred is survived by his widow, Te­ressa; three daughters, Teressa Marie, 14, Catherine Bemadette, 12, and 
^Mar)', 9; his parents; and a sister. 

The new Pangbom Residence Hall, under construction, !s scheduled for occupancy in September, 1933. The $800,000 building was made possible by a gift of Mr. Thomas W. Pangbom and Mr. John C. Pangbom, Hageistown, Md., through the Pangbom Foundation. It will be Notre Dame's 15th student residence hall. 
(TWO MORE) 
/

Going Up: 
G
ENEROUS benefactions from two non-alumni friends have sub­stantially aided Notre Dame's long-range building program as armounced in 1948 by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of the University and now Director of the Notre Dame Foundation. The Pangbom Residence Hall and Hammes Shopping Center will be ready for occupancy this year. Other proj'ects still remaining on the original $25,000,000 outline include a Library, Din­ing Hall, (another) Residence Hall, Auditorium-Fieldhouse, and Maintenance Center. 
The Hanmies Shopping Center will be finished in early Spring. It mil house the campus book store and provide other services for students. The building will cost $250,000 and was a donation from Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes, of Kankakee, III. It is located between the post-office and Badin Hall. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
The University of Notre Dame band formed the letters "JOE" and played Hike, Notre Dame in a special halftime salute to Joseph J. Casasanta, '23, during the North Carolina game. Tliousands of alumni 'knew' him when he directed the Irish band and the glee club for 23 years, retiring in 1942 to enter private business. Joe Casasanta, assisted by Vincent Fagan, '20, composed Down the Line and Hike, Notre ^ Dame, while collaborating with Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., on ' 
When Irish Backs Go Marching By and with Father Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, on Notre Dame, Our Mother. Air. and Mrs. Casasanta live at 725 E. An<jcla Blvd.. South Bend. Indiana. 
4 
Noire Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
.MRS. .\BBOTT 

•Ah, Those Irish !* Says Grill Fan, 101 
, .'V bhie-eyed, white-haired resident of \Vateivi]lc, Maine,—"101 years young" —bids fair to be tlie Noire Danic grid­ders" number one booster. Site is Mrs. Margaret .'\bbot, a native of Coimty Kerry. Ireland, who was piiotographcd as she earnestly studied the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's football ros­ter just prior to the 1954 North Ca­rolina game, which coincided with her 101st birthday. Mrs. .\bbolt received birthday greetings from President Eis­
, enhower, former Irish Coach Frank Leahy, Actress Bettc Davis, former Massachusetts Governor James Ciuley, and .\rchbisho]j Cushing of Boston. And Guglielmi, Varrichione and Com­pany helped her to celebrate witii a re­soimding 42-13 win over tiie Tarheels. ".Ml, those Irish," she grinned when she heard the final score. 
Social Welfare Work 
The American Bishops' organiza­tion is an.xious to obtain qualified personnel for work in Italy, Ger­many. Spain, India and Pakistan. Experience in the social welfare field is preferred. For complete informa­tion write: Rt. Rev. Msgr. Edward 
E. Swanstrom, Executive Director, National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York 
1. N. Y. 

Rhode Island Club Is Catholic Leader 
Some 400 members of the Catholic .Association of College Alumni on Dec. 5 attended the fifth of that organiza­tion's annual corporate Communions and Comniimion breakfasts. These events were originated through the in­spiration of the Notre Dame men of Rhode Island. The chainnan for the 1954 Commimion was John J. Mc­Laughlin, '34, president of McLaugh­lin and Moran. Inc.. Cumberland Hill. 
R. I. 
Bishop .\IcVinncy Celebrates Mais 
Speaker for the 1954 breakfast was Patrick B. McGinnis, an outstanding Catholic layman and the new presi­dent of the New York, New Haven, and Flartford railroad. The Com­munion Mass was held in the Cathe­dral of Sts. Peter and Paul, Providence, and the breakfast followed in the Sher­aton Biltmore. The Mass was cele­brated by the Most Rev. Russell J. McVinney. a graduate student at No­tre Dame in 1935-36. 
The event has possibilities which might be of help to those Notre Dame clubs with smaller memberships in that they could imite with Catholic alumni from other colleges in the area. Offi­cers are elected on a representative basis so that each college, small or large, gets its chance to be in the limelight for the annual event. \Vith the rapid growth of the association's yearly Communion Breakfasts it is an­ticipated that 1,000 men, in another few yeare, will attend the event. 
Nineteen colleges and imiversities are represented on the Board of Directors. These schools are non-Catholic as well as Catholic, .'\ndrew McMahon, a member of Notre Dame's 1935 class, is a past president of the Catholic As­.sociation of College .'\lumni. 
1925 Class Prepares For Reunion Weekend 
Metnbers of the 1925 class and their guests "warmed up" for the approach­ing Reimion Weekend next June 10, 11, 12, 1955, with a cocktail party in the Monis Inn following the Notre Daine-North Carolina football game. Classmates had an opportunity to see each other, to meet each other's wife and to swap ideas about the program for 1925's SOth Year Reunion. Those who registered at the door included: Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Gordon, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice J. Boland, and Mr. Herman G. Centlivre, all of Fort ^Vayne, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. Don Mil­ler, Dr. and Mrs. Cy J. Caldwell, Mr. and Mrs. George J. Hahn, Mr. and Mrs. Evard F. Kohl, all of Cleveland, C ; Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Tillman, Mr. and Mrs. John Hurley, Toledo, C ; Mr. and Mrs. Edward F. Cuddihy, Chicago, 111.; Mr. William J. Cemey, Mr. Clarence Harding, Mr. and Mrs. John Droege, and Mr. and Mrs. James 
E. Armstrong, South Bend, Ind.; Mr. and Mrs. John \V. Courtney, Dear­bom, Mich.; Mr. and Mrs. V. P. Pa­gan, Oak Park, 111.; Mr. George Laughlin, Evanston, 111.; Mr. and Mrs. Geox^e Ludwig, Muskegon, Mich.; and Mr. and Mrs. John A. Kelley, Michi­gan Citv, Ind. 
FISHER HALL TO BE ENLARGED IN FALL 
Plans for enlarging Fisher Hall were announced recently by the Rev. Ed­mimd P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University. Two floors will be added to the north-south wing of the building. Father Joyce said, pro­viding living accommodations for an additional forty students. He explained that Fisher Hall was originally designed so that third and fourth floors might be added at a later date. 
$100,000 Project 
Father Joyce annoimced that the Chicago firm of Holabird, Root and Burgee is architect for the $100,000 project and construction will begin at the close of the school year next May. The new addition will be ready for occupancy in September, 1955. 
Fisher Hall, a gift of the late Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, Detroit, Michigan, was dedicated on November 28, 1952. Her husband, the late Fred J. Fisher, was a co-founder and first president of the Fisher Body Company. He was a mem­ber of Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trustees for more than twenty years until his death in 1941. 
\'otre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 11 
^: 

%CS
t 

Notre Dame's 1934-55 basketball team, left to right: Bill Weiman, guard; John Smyth, fonv-ard; Captain Jack (Junior) Stephens, guard; Lloyd Aubrey, center; John Fannon, forward; Coach John Jordan. 
Stephens Paces Cagers 
The 1953-54 "Coach of the Year" Johnny Jordan, and his Irisli cagers— who last season posted a brilliant 22-3 record and advanced to the quarter­finals oi tlie NCAA tourney—are "feel­ing" the loss of AU-American Dick Rosenthal but it looks like another good team under the Golden Dome if not a great one. 
Sparked by stellar senior guard Jack Stephens, the Irish racked up Wiscon­sin (72-61) and Northwestern (79-69) in their first two games but tlien Jor­dan's squad showed its "Achilles' heel": Apathy at the free-throw line. Subse­quently, they were edged by the great Don Schlundt and Indiana (73-70), tipped Loyola of Chicago (89-76), and tlien were blitzed by the Purdue (78-58) and Illinois (65-57) sharpshooters who riddled the nets with charity tosses while a critical number of Irish at­tempts dribbled sadly off the rim. 
Despite the loss of Rosenthal, all-Midwest Forward Joe Bertrand, and veteran Guard Bill Sullivan, the squad lacks depth but should "come along" before tlie season's finale. As the ALUMNUS goes to press statistics for the first four games show that, as ex­pected. Captain Jack (Jimior) Steph­
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, JarMaTy-February, 1955 
ens is the Irish "stickout." He tallied 22 points against Wisconsin, 33 against Northwestern, 32 against Indiana, and 20 against Loyola. Up to and includ­ing tlie Loyola game he had potted 107 points for an average of 21.8 per outing. Stephens, according to Jordan, is "one of Notre Dame's greatest play­ers of all time." 
Jolm Smyth, sophomore forward, followed Stephens with a four-game output of 52; John Fannon, a junior forward and the only holdover regular besides Stephens, had 43; Lloyd Aub­rey, junior center, 41 (including 25 against Loyola); Bill Weiman, junior guard, 27; and Lee Ayotte, who as the sixth man has been alternating at both forward and guard, 28. 
IRISH EVANGEUSTS 

After the Southern Metliodist game Umpire Rentschler said the Irish were given many of their 175­yard penalties because their com­petitive urges sometimes got die best of them. "They play," he said, "\vith intense enjoyment, and there is an evangelistic atmosphere in every one of their open huddles." 
1955 Track Schedule 
INDOOR 

Jan. 29—Purdue at ND 
Feb. 4—^Michigan, there 12—^Mich. State Relays, there 19—Mich. State at ND 26—Indiana, there 
Mar. 5—Closed C.C.C. at ND 12—Milwaukee Relays 19—Chicago Relays 26—Cleveland Relays 
OUTDOOR 

Apr. 3-4—^Texas Relays 23—^Kansas Relays 29—Drake Relays 30—Penn Relays 
May 7—Missouri, there 14—Pitt, here 21—State Meet or Marquette 
Dual June 5—Open C.C.C. Milwaukee 19—N.C.A.A. 
ND Harriers Successful 
V

The Notre Dame cross-country team, coached by Alex Wilson, concluded their most successful season in recent years with a sixth-place finish in the NCAA championship at East Lansing, Mich., on November 22. The meet was won by Oklahoma A. & M. Bill Squires was Notre Dame's top runner in the meet as he finished fourteenth, 
about 30 seconds behind the \vinner. The first four Irish harriers behind Squires in order were: Jack Gits, Al Schoenig, Jim Daly, and Neil Wallace. " The Irish sbcth place finish was their best NCAA mark in four years. 
ALEX PESTRICHELLiV, dash man 
FootbaU HighUghts 

Notre Dame's 1954 grid season ended one era and began another. It inaugurated the coaching era of Terry Brennan and ended the college careers of four-year varsity regulars: Co-cap­tains Dan Shannon and Paul Matz, Tackles Frank Varrichione and Sam Palumbo, Guard Jack Lee, Center Dick Szymanski, AII-American Ralph Guglielmi, and Halfback Joe Heap— 
.all of whom entered school in 1951 when freshmen were eligible and who played in a total of 40 games, only five of which were lost. 
BRENNAN WINS NINE 

Terry Brennan's first-year coaching record shows more wins than any for­mer Notre Dame coach. His overall record was surpassed by only Frank Leahy, who gained eight victories against but one tie in his kickofF season 
' of 1941. Knute Rockne's first team, tlie 1918 squad, had a 3-1-2 mark. Heartly "Hunk" Anderson, who suc­ceeded the "Rock" in 1931, boasted a 6-2-1 record and Elmer Layden com­piled a 6-3-0 in his first season of 1934. 
The durability and versatility of Notre Dame's "Old Guard," Shannon, Varrichione, et al, is evidenced by the fact that these "lads" survived the much "cussed" and discussed rule al­teration (or aberration????) that out­lawed the two-platoon style of play. 
IRON MAN SHANTSfON 

Shannon has started more games than any player in Notre Dame histor)-. Of the 40 contests he was in the open­ing line-up either on defense or offense 38 times. Varrichione, a regular as a fresliman until he was sidelined by an injury, started in 32 games. Lee and Heap both opened in 30 games and Heap was in the starting line-up every game for the past three years. Gugli­elmi has started 25 games, including every one during the past two years. Matz started 20 times and Szymanski a total of 18. 
Guglielmi received the Washington Touchdown Club's annual Walter Camp Memorial trophy, which is em­blematic of the best back in the nation. 
CAPTAIN-ELECT LEMEK Ray Lemek, 215-pound junior guard from Sioux City, Iowa, was elected cap-
Members of the 1929-30 football squad returned to the campus for a special reunion at the Notre Damc-North Carolina game. Edward 'Moose' Krause, Director of Athletics, in­troduced them to the crowd at halftime ceremonies. Left to right: (front row) Bob Tcr­laak, Regis JfcNamara, Charlie Jaskwich, John Rogers, Ted Twomey, Tom Conley, Nordy HoiTnian, Tom Kassis, Jack Elder, Bucky O'Connor; (back row) Hunk Andcison, Frank Leahy, Bert Metzger, Tony Schrciner, Jack Cannon, Joe Savoldi, Art McManmon, Steve 
^ Banas, Joe Nash, Joe Abbott, Mike Koken, John Quinn, Carl Cronin, Ike Voedbch and John Law. 
tain of the 1955 Notre Dame football team. Lemek is 19 and stands 6-1. Last season he was the only sophomore to play regularly with the undefeated 1953 Fighting Irish. In the opening game of the campaign against Okla­homa he started and played 52 min­utes, as the Irish won 28-21. 
During the 1954 season Lemek played left guard on offense and line­backer on defense. He was a main factor in the Notre Dame defense which limited the opponents to an average of 109 yards per game rushing. Against Southern Cal in the next to the last game of the season Lemek received a severe knee injury and was forced tc miss the final contest with Southern Methodist. He is expected, however, to be ready for action in 1955. 
LINE GETS CREDIT 

Final team statistics indicate that the Irish line must receive most of the credit for the team's 9-1 season record. Their offensive work enabled Notre Dame backs to grind out a rushing av­erage of 239 yards per game while on defense diey limited opponents to an average of 109 yards per game. 
Don Schaefer, junior fullback, bested Heap in their race for superior­ity in the rushing department, although both finished the campaign with iden­tical 5.4 averages. Schaefer, however, was the workhorse of the backfield as he gained 766 yards on 141 carries. Heap accoimted for 594 yards through the season. Sophomore halfback Dean Studer was tops in pimt returns with six for 62 yards. Another sophomore halfback, Jim Morse, led his mates in kickofF returns with five for 166 yards. 
1954 Notre Dame All-Opponent Team 

ENDS—Ron Beagle, Navy; John Lewis, Michigan State, TACKLES— Lou PalateWa, Pittsburgh; tie for second between Herb Gray, Texas; Joe Krupa, Purdue; Forrest Gregg, So. Methodist, GUARDS—Tom Bet-tis, Purdue; Calvin Jones, Iowa; CENTER—^Marv Goux, So.' Califor­nia. QUARTERBACK Len DaWSOD, 
Purdue, BACKS — John Matsock, Michigan State; Walt Hynoski, Pennsylvania; Bill Murafcowski, Purdue. 
BEST TEAM piAYED (according to vote of players): Michigan State. 
Notrt Dante Alumnus, January-February, 1953 13 
KRAUSE ("34), another great Notre Dame ath­letic star and presently Director of Athletics, Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
McI Allen of CBS and many other notables, in­cluding sportswritCTS, TV, and radio personalities, 
Jft^.|&§::, \^^-^ honored the rally with their presence. BOBBV/ WILLIAMS ('51) \vas unable to attend because he 
was away playing ^vith the Bainbridge Naxy foot­ball team. 
Akron 

The Akron Club held a dance on December 27 at the ifaynoiver Ballroom. MURRAY POWERS was diairman of publicity while THOMxVS J. BOTZUM was chairman of tickets and insitations and WILLIAM F. AHERN, JR., was cliairnian of decorations. Arrangements for the orchestra were made by JOHN M. DORAN, JR. Members of the \-arious committees included JOHN THORPE, ROBERT KOLB, CL^VUDE HORNING, RICH­.\RD BOTZU.M, DANIEL MOTZ, JOSEPH KR,\­KER, FR.\NK STEEL, JAMES COULTER, WIL­LLV-M O'NEIL, ROBERT KAPISH, DR. PAT­RICK DORAN, JOSEPH VAN DE\'ERE, CHARLES -McGUCKLN, WILLARD MALOY, EDMUND HINDERSCHEID, WILLIAM BURK­HARDT and HUGH COLOPY, 
GLEN SMITH was general cliairman of the dance while MRS. CHARLES J. McGUCKIN was diairman of the women's committee. 
—Thomas J. Botzum 

Baltimore 
The Fall business meeting was held on September 28, 1954, in tlic Gray Room of the Emerson Hotel, Baitimorc, Md. Final plans for the Na\y-Notrc Dame game weekend, October 30-31, were com­pleted. Tlic highligiit of the evening was tlic show­ing of exclusive color movies of the World Cham­pionship Cleveland Browns—Detroit Lions game of last Fall. This part of the meeting was furnished through the courtesy of the Miller Brewing Company. 
New club members in attendance at the above mecung were: NEIL COCHR.\N, THOMAS J. HERTER, BERNIE ELL, BILL PRENDERGAST, JOSEPH SHERER, FR/\NK M. S.\NDERi\, and COLONEL ELMER J. COLLINS. 
It was announced that Dave Ceraco, a graduate of Lo\-ola High Scliool in Baltimore, was the win­ner of the Notre Dame Club of Baitimorc Medal this p.ist school year. Dave, an honor student, u'as named recipient of the medal for his work in dra­matics. The medal winner is named at the school's discretion, for outstanding achievement in a field other than athletics. Wc arc very pleased to say that Dave entered the University of Notre Dame this Fall as a new student. 
Not only was tlic Na\y-Notre Dame weekend, October 30-31, a success from the standpoint of ND winning 3 close one G to 0, but our local club had its biggest weekend to date. Tlie prc-game football rally of Friday evening and the cocktail party fol­lowing tlie game on Saturday afternoon were both held in the main ballroom of the Emerson hotel in downtown Baitimorc. Over 500 attended the rally and more than 1300 gatliercd after the game for tlie cocktail party. 
JOSEPH BOLAND ('27), Sports Announcer of the famous "Irish Netu-ork" and former line coacli. University of Xotrc Dame, was Master of Cere­monies at the rally. Prominent alumni and hon­ored guests tverc: Most Rev. Jerome S. Sebastian, D.D., Auxiliary to tlic Arrlibishop of Baltimore; Ver>- Rev, Thomas J. Murray, S.J., President, Loyola College, Baltimore, Md.; Governor Theo­dore R. McKeldin, State of Mar>'land;- Mayor Tliomas D'Atcsandro, Jr., Citv of Baltimore; JAMES G. McGOLDRICK ('39), Nadonal Presi­dent of tt>c Notre Dame Alumni Association and Captain of the '38 Notre Dame FfJotball team; JA.MES MUTSCHELLER ('52), Baltimore Colts and Captain of the '51 Notre Dame Football team; Wilbur \Veeb Ewbank, Head Coadi of the Baltimore Colls (Pro Football); Claire Bee, Head Coacli of the Baitimorc Bullets (Pro Basketball); Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joscpli H. XeJligan, Baitimorc, Md., and CHARLES CALLAH/VN, University of Notre Dame. The main speakers were: Captain C. El­liott Loughlin, USN, Director of Athletics, U. S. Xax-al Academy, representing the Superintendent of the Academy; REV. ED.MUXD P. JOYCE, C.S.C., '37, Executive \^ce President and Chairman of the Board of Athletics, University of Notre Dame, rep­resenting the President of the University; EDGAR 
E. "RIP" MILLER ('25), Notre Dame football great and presently Assistant Director of Athletics, 
U. S. Naval Academy; and EDWARD "MOOSE" 
Tlie Club wishes to thank the local newspapers 

and radio stations for carr>'ing advance announce­
ments of the weekend program. We arc especially 
indebted to Radio Station WCBM for its courteous 
cooperation in carr>-ing our Notre Dame Rally 
to the listening public Music for ttie occasion 
was furnished by Rivers Chambers Orchestra. 
So many alumni, U. S. Na\-al Academy Midship­men, "friends of Notre Dame AND NAVY" and their guests attended the cocktail party following the game tliat we had to turn away several hun­dred more for lack of room. Tlie most gracious guest of all at tliis affair was REV. THEODORE HESBURGH, genial President of the Universit>* of Notre Dame. He walked about the ballroom talking and \'isiting with practically ever>*onc. I remarked ( to Father Hcsburgh that he and I had three things in common: God, Notre Dame AND SVR/\CUSE, 
N. Y., our *'hometown." 
Tlic tremendous success of the entire weekend is due primarily to the fine work of the club officers: JA.MES H. MURR.\V, JR. ('41), President; JO­SEPH P. PONS ('44), Vice President; PETER P. HiVJEWSKI, (ex '34), Treasurer, and to the Com­mittee Chairmen, EDWARD J. O'BRIEN ('34), General Chairman, J. MURR/VY WIEMAN ('49), Rally; WILLIAM W. HARTM/\N ('41), Cocktml Party; JOSEPH M. DUKERT ('51), Reser\ations; FREDERICK N. HOLL ('40), Decorations; CHARLES C. KREIS ('51), Program; FRtVNK-L\'N C. HOCHREITER ('35), Game Tickets; HAROLD A. WILLIAMS, JR. ('38). Publicity; and W. GREGORY H^\LP1N ('49), Reception. 
A Communion Breakfast was held on Sunday, ­December 5, 1954, for members of the local club^ and their families. 
—^Jamcs E. Barrett {'40), Sec>-. 

Boston 
The Notre Dame Club ran a special excursion from Boston on November 27 to the Southern Cal game at ND. JOHN V. .MOR,\N, '30, was chair­man of tliis affair. 
The club's annua! Communion Breakfast w*as 

BALTIMORE—Guests at the speakers table at the club's Notre Danie-Navy rally on October 29 were: (L. to R.) Claire Bee, coach of, Baitimorc Bullets; Jim Mutscheller, former Irish captain and now with the Baltimore Colts; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive ^­vice-presidcnt; Capt. C. Elliott Loughlin, USN, director of athletics at the Naval Academy; Most Rev. Jerome D. Sebastian, D.D.; Edward 
J. O'Brien, program chairman; James H. Murray, Jr., club president; Joe Boland, toastmaster; Ed "Moose" Krause; Edgar "Rip" Miller, 
former Irish grid star and now assistant athletic director at the Naval Academy; Very Rev. Thomas J. Murray, S.J.; ^Vilbur Ewbank, Baltimore Colt coach; and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph M. Nelligan. 
14 Notrg Dame Alumnus, Jonuary-Frbruary, 1955 
FT. WAYNE—Approximately 75 members attended the club's annual Communion Mass and breakfast. The Mass was in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception and breakfast was held at the Kecnan Hotel. L. to R.: Jim McCarron, program chairman; Joseph Colligan, president of the St. Vincent de Paul Society; Bob Kearney, club president; Ted 
/ Tocrnc, guest speaker; and Maurice 
held on December 12 and featured as speakers Msgr. Edivard F, Sweeney and Bill Stewart, Na­tional League umpire. Ttie Mass was held in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel at Ifoly Cross Cathedral with Father Donovan, cUih chaplain, as the cele­brant. Breakfast was at the Vendome Hotel, BILL McCt\RTHY, '49, was chairman, and his committee consisted of PAUL SULLIVAN, '49, DICK KIRK, »50, and DICK HYL.\ND, '50. 
On September 9, the Notre Dame Club of Boston held a going-away party at the Smith House in Cambridge, Mass., fur all incoming freshmen and 

- their fathers from greater Boston who arc planning 
^••lo attend Notre Dame In the fall. Approximately 80 guests (forty being future Notre Dame men) enjoyed an cNcellent baked ham dinner. The guest speaker was Father Ryan, a former Notre Dame student, who gave a talk on the ad\-antage of be­ing a Noire Dame man. The evening was enjoyed by all and JOSEPH PRtVUGHT, chairman of the afTair, did an excellent job. In fact I think the club will honor Joe with tlic same duty every year. 
Plans arc underway for the ND-Holy Cross bas­ketball game at Boston Garden In Januar>*. The club is having a pre-gamc lunclieon at a Boston hotel. These lunclieons have been very successful since ND has come to Boston for the Holy Cross game. All Notre Dame men in the New England area look forward with great anticipation to this affair ci'cry year. AH arc invited to attend. BILL O'BRIEN, '44, is chairman of the afTair and PAUL KLUDING and DICK KIRK arc on his committee. 

^ Any Notre Dame man who is in the Boston area whetlicr on a visit or establishing new residence here please look us up in the telephone book under the ND Alumni Club of Boston. We welcome you. 
—^Michael Manzo, *45, Stcy. 
Buffalo 
The annual Communion Breakfast was held on Sunday, December 12, with Mass at the new Ca­thedral Chapel and breakfast at the Sheraton Hotel. JOHN M. FANNING, '49, serxed as cliairman. 
Our Cocktail Party the night after Tlianksgiving at tlic Sheraton was a great success, socially, for the 150 people who attended it. The Club under­writes the cost of this annual party in the interest of continuing an active, year-around social life 

I among Notre Darners and their friends. JACK 
' CONSIDINE did a fine job as cliairman. Next on the calendar is the Christmas Dance to be held at the Statler on December 28 in the Niagara Room. By the time this issue comes out, it will be hisior>'. Right now, Co-Chairmen ILVLPH and Margaret ELSE arc determined to make the 1954 Dance the best one since ex-Prcsidcnt MxVURY 
. QUINN rcinstituted the Christmas Dance as an annual function. Tlicy have chosen the follow­ing committees: JACK and Joanne SHINE, Tickets DON .MAHONEY, Reservations TED and Beverly FL.VNNIG/\N, Program TOM and Jean RICHARDS, Decorations FR.\NK and Lorctta KELLNER, Music Mr. and Mrs. H^VNK BURNS, Reception JACK CASEY, Reception 
The Dance is cosponsorcd by tlic Alumwives, the Campus Club and the tVlumni Club. ' The BufTalo Club is blessed xvith an active and 
 dc Wald, program committee member. 
capable Mumwives Group under the presidency of Barbara Austin. Over the past 10 years they have made themselves essential to the success of any of our social functions. At their November meeting the girls collected an entire Christmas dinner for a needy family, plus a tree and a complete clothing outfit. In October they held a Fashion Show. 
President DICK THOEN has inaugurated the appointment of monthly chairmen for our regular meetings in an effort to get more members out for the meetings. JOHN COURTNEY is Chair­man for the December meeting. He has planned some kind of entertainment. 
Vice President CHARLEY H.\NNA's spcdal ex­cursion to the Micliigan State game gave the Sctiolarship Fund a good boost. 
—Paul J. AlUvcin, Secy. 
Calumet District 

Tliis year's Annual Christmas Dinner-Dance was held at ^Voodma^ Country Club in Hammond on December 29 and was under the co-chairmanship of JIM MORRISON and Prcxy JACK OGRENi It was a AvonderftU affair (Jim and Jack collaborated 
last year on this same event) and an outstaiul­
ing success. 

Very close to a hundred members and their guests attended our Marian Year Communion Breakfast. FATHER THOMAS McDONAGH, C.S.C., Head of the Economics Department, gave a u-onderfut thought-provoking' talk on the won­derful gift of Faith, and exhorteti ev'cryone to guard this gift with every ounce of energy at their disposal. A private Mass was held by Father McDonagh in St. ^largaret Mary's Church in Hammond, followed fay breakfast is the dining hall of Bishop Noll High School. Guests.of honor were Father McDonagh's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas McDoni^h of East Chicago, Indiana. 
Plans are also now being formulated by TOM^ CLIFFORD and TOM RADIGAN for our Stag Sports Dinner to be held in Gary on Tuesday, February 15. An interesting program is now being arranged. 
—^Emie Huffman, *49, Secy. 
Central New York 

TIic annual Notre Dame Communion Breakfast >vas held on December 5 with a Afass at St. John the Evangelist Church and breakfast in the Yates Hotel. DR. THO.NLVS SJ^YDER was in charge of arrangements. 
Chicago 
The club's Universal Communion Breakfast was held on December 5 with Mass at St. Peter's and breakfast at the LaSallc Hotel. FATHER TO.M BRENNAN was guest speaker from the campus. JOE PAGLIARI, '53, was chainnan of the affair. 
Cincinnati 
In lieu of a regular meeting a bowling party attended by 26 club members was held on October 14 at the Hyde Park Country Club. This party was arranged by JERRY BRODBERGER, presi­dent, and featured plenty of refreshments. B^UIRY SAVAGE, a 1954 graduate, joined our ranks at this affair and showed what >*outh can do ^vitb 3 bowling ball. 
A meeting was held November 9 at the Uni­versity Club. PAUL SCmVETSCHEN.AU re­ported a fine profit of $158.30 on the raffle of 
Connecticut Valley altmini who are employed at Hamilton Standard Division of United Aircraft Corp., Windsor Locks, Conn., are: (front row) Floyd Bradley, '47, Neil Butler, *53, Ray Onofrio, '54, Ed Haderer, '53, Ted Paulding, '52, Jim Flaherty, '53, and Tom Shea, '29; (back row) Hank McGann, '53, Norb Neffinger, '47, Ed Sheridan, '49, Ned Brewer, '54, Jack \ViIczynski, '53, and Jack Fallon, '54. 
Notre Damt Atumnui^ Janvaxy-FtbTuarj, 1955 15 . 
His Eminence, Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago, recently was presented with a specially bound edition of "Introduction to Theology** by members of the Fides Publishers staff. L. to R.: Vincent J. Giese, *50, editorial director; Joseph Vilimas, Jr., sales director; Cardinal Stritch; Father Louis Putz, C.S.C., '32, president of Fides and faculty member at Notre Dame; and Eugene Geissler, '41, an editor of Fides. The volume is the first of the Theological Library which Fides Publishers is developing as a theological synthesis based on St. Thomas Aquinas. 
tickets for the Micliigan State game. Several of the members arranged to attend this game on RAY BARKER*S X.Y.C. special traJn. Require­ments for tliis trip were just a few dollars and an awfully rugged constitution. At this meeting the club voted unanimously to send 3 letter of appreciation to Station AVNOP In Covington, Ken­tucky, for bringing us the radio broadcast of Xotre Dame football games \'ia the Notre Dame net^vork. 
JOHN CRONIN was diairman of the Scholar­
sliip Ball this year. It was held at the Pa\ilion 
Caprice of the Ncthcrland PJaza Hotel-
Cleveland 
ART WOOD and GUS STEFANEK headed an­
other successful scholarslijp fund raffle and through 
the generosity and hard work of members of the 
Club, over $1,000 was added to the scholarship fund, 
SD lunclicons have again been sclieduled and under the management of JOHN MENDENHALL, the first luncheon held was a real success. Lunch-cons will be held on the first Tliursday of cacli month, at the Mayfair Dining room of the May Company. Time: 12 noon. 

On December 5, the Club held its annual family Communion Brekafast. Mass was held at St. John's Cathedral and breakfast at the Hotel Hollcndon. FATHER L.UN'RE.VCE BROESTL, Rector of Dil­lon Hall and Chaplain of the Cleveland Club on campus, was principal speaker. FRANK GAUL, President of the Club, acted as toastmaster. 
—Robert F. 0*Mallcy, Secy. 
Columbus 

Tlie Club-sponsored Special Train to the Michi­gan Slate game was a success. From tlie profits, the Club voted to turn over $600.00 as a gift to the University Foundation. Again we wish to thank AL EICHENL^\UB who did a splendid job as chairman. 
Our next important event was the Universal Com­munion Sunday which was held December 12. Mass was at St. Joseph's Cathedral at 9 o'clock with His Excellency Bishop Ready, tlic celebrant. Break­fast followed at the Fort Hayes Hotel. FATHER JAMES NORTON, Vice President of Student Af­fairs at the University, ^vas the guest speaker. Rcser\-ations for llie breakfast were received by LEO J. KLET2LY and BOB ECHENRODE. 
On December 28 the Club sponsored a Christ­mas Dance at the Deshler-Hilton Hotel. The undergraduates togetlier with the Almnoi Club members and guests attended. 
16 Notre Dame AlumntUf January-February, 1955 

Any alumni living in the Columbus area who arc not receiving our mailings are asked to get in touch with the Secretary-—LARRY STEMBER of 211 East Kelso A\-enue—^Telephone Ludlow 5187. 
—John R- Murphy, Pres. 
Connecticut Valley 

Tlie club had several events during the month of December and there arc also several scheduled for 
Januar>-. Included in activities {or December ^*•ss an 
SMU Smoker on December 4. JOE HOLBACH, *32, u-as chairman of this telcx-ision get-together which was held at the home of DICK MULL.\N­EY, '25, in Avon, Conn. Assisting in the prepara­tion fcr the program were FRtlNK AHE/\RN, '27, JOHN L\'NCH, '35, and \aN TURLEY, '31. Tlie Communion Breakfast was held this year at the Statler Hotel in Hartford under the chair­manship of BILL WAELDNER, '43. Tlie Rev. Fred Becka, M.M., was guest speaker and talked on Communism in Prcsent-Day China. 
The College Fair was held on December 12 u-ith the officers presiding at the Notre Dame booth in a program sponsored by the Catholic Graduates Club of Greater Hartford. 
TIic Christmas dance look place at tlie State Armorv- Officers Club with alumni, Notre Dame students and other guests attending. JIM FL/\­HERTY, '53, was chairman of the event and members of his committee consisted of FLOYD RICHARDS, '42. BILL NIEMIEC, '54, and LOU BERGERON, '52. 
Tlie club is planning an excursion to the N^TJ game in Madison Square Garden during the month of January- and alio a trip to the Holy Cross-Notre Dame game in the Boston Garden. 
A nominating committee of JOE HOLBACH, FLOYD RICHARDS, DON McMANUS, '32, VIN TXJRLEY, and JIM FLAHERTY was appointed by president JOHN ROBINSON, '28, to present a slate of officers for the club election in Marcli. At a recent meeting, additional dues were col­lected from 25 members. 
—^Jim Flaherty, Secy. 

Dallas 
Club activity readied a. peak in December for the Dallas Alumni. Members were as busy as the participants of tlic Notre Dame-SMU game played here on December 4. TTie evening before, a gigan­tic rally was held at the Baker Hotel. Htmdrcds of alumni, friends, officials and other dignitaries were in attendance at what proved to be an all-time high in spirit, fun and drama. Preceding the rally, a dinner was held in the Baker Hotel's Te.xas 
Room for tlic olfidal university party, invited 
guests and club officers. 
Tlic day after the game the Club held a "bruncli" at the brand, spanking new "Dallasj' Club." Members of the team, officials and the^ Notre Dame party guests gathered at the Club for a dclightftil "brunch" and general get-together. 
Several **open houses" were held during the ND-SMU weekend to round out a 48-hour period hundreds of alumni, students and friends will re­member for a long time to come. 
At this moment, a committee is '*up to its knees" in planning a ver>' comprehensive Club Director^' which should be coming off the press in the not too distant future. 
The Annual Christmas Dance, which has taken on a traditional character for llic members, was held on December 29 at the Terrace Room of the Baker Hold. 
—Buddy Goldman 
Dayton 

The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Dayton met at Suttmillcr's Restaurant on November 16 to bear the report on the Notre Dame-Micliigan Stale excursion. All reports, comments and observations concerning the trip were [avorahle and attested to the hard work and planning of our president, LEO CONDRON, and treasurer, ANDREAV AMAN, JR., and all the members of the Alumni Club. 
A communion breakfast was the event of De­cember. Tlie chapel of the University of Dayton was the place of the Mass after whicli a breakfast was served. HUGH DEVORE, Notre Dame grad and head football coach at the University of Dayton, was the speaker at the breakfast. At this point I might add that we im-ite all to watch those Dayton Flyers in the basketball headlines. . ^Vc hope they will follow our own Notre Dame ^ team to a high position in the national ratings. 
The officers and board met on November 23 at the office of ED STEINER and approved news releases, deadlines and examining committee for our Robert F. Raney Memorial Scliolarship. The award of a Echolarslnp will finally be realized this Spring. 
—WlHam W. MacMilIan, Jr. 

Dearborn 
October proved to be an eventful month for the Dearborn Club. Two successful football trips to Notre Dame provided both a social and financial lift to our club. 
On the 2nd of the month, 78 people went to the Purdue game and on the I5th, 150 went to j the Micliigan State game. Transportation was by ^ bus. PETE KERN,f\N was in cliai^e of the Purdue trip, and President DICK KING took care of the details on the Michigan State affair. 
TOM TUCKER made the arrangements, and on November 12th, 52 club members and friends toured the Cocbcl Bren'crj* in Detroit and enter­tained themselves with beer, pretzels and cards aftenvards. 
—Jcrr>- Gass, Sec>-.-Trcas. 

Detroit 
The Detroit Club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 12. A memorial Mass ior Kmite Rockne and Gus Dorals was held in Blessed Sacrament Catlicdral with Father Celcstine J. • Steiner, S.J., president of the University of Detroit, j as celebrant. Bishop Babcock delivered the sermon. Breakfast was held at the Latin Quarter with the REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president at Notre Dame, as featured speaker. Guests of honor included Bishop Donovan, MRS. KNUTE ROCKNE and MRS. CHARLES E. "GVS" DOR.VIS. The memorial Mass and Com­munion Breakfast u-as a joint venture of the Uni­versity of Detroit Metropolitan Alumni Club and the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. 
The Christmas dance was held on December 28 at tlie Latin Quarter with alumni and students in attendance. 
El Paso 
New officers for the Notre Dame Club of El Paso^ who were elected at the November meeting are: RICHARD SMITH, '37, president; CHARLES COY, JR.. '37. vice-president; and TIM HANRA­HAN, '50, secretary-treasurer. 
—Tim Hanrahan, Sccy.-Treas. 
W 
Fort Wayne 
TIic Fort \Va>Tie Club held its annual Football Party on November 22, with JIM FRERICKS ser\'ing as chairman. Following a short business meeting HILLIARD GATES, local radio and TV sportscastcr, gave a talk on the 1954 football season and this was follo^vcd by movies of the 1953 Oklalioma and Southern California games. During the business meeting JIM PARSONS was elected to the group's Board of Directors. 
On December 5, we held our annual Communion Breakfast. JIM McCARRON was the diairman of this event. We cooperated with the Fort Wayne Campus group in sponsoring a concert by the Notre Dame GIrc Club on December 13. 
—^Jerr>* Putnam 
Flint 
Twenty of an estimated 40 Notre Dame men in this vicinity met Nov. 8 to plan a strong Notre Dainc Club here which will be designed to assist the growing group of Flint and Genesee County men on the campus and to promote foundation ^vork. 
This new group, which has applied for a charter from the University, has elected the following nine-man board of directors: Chib officers PAUL C. HUGHES, 310 Patcrson BouIe\-ard, president; ROBERT J. SIBILSKY, 2302 Mt. Avenue, \ice president; WILLLUI F. MINARDO, 406 W. Mc­Clellan. second vice president; and THEODORE 
J. M/VNYAK, 419 S. Vcmon, secrctar>--trca5urer; and DR. D.\NIEL H. SHEERAN, R^VYMOND J. > KELLY, JR., ALBERT S. FURM.\N, J.VMES M. PE.\RSON and JAMES J. SHERRY, JR. 
A slag gct-logctlicr was Iield on December 4 at the Atlas Countr>* Club where the members en­joyed the telecast of the Irish-SMU game. IL\Y KELLY was in charge of arrangements. Nineteen members attended the TV show and 25 guests were also prcscnt-
Thc club obser\'ed a Communion Breakfast on December 19 with Mass at St. Micliacl's Church and breakfast at the Holly^vood Grill. JIM PE.\R­SON was the cliairman in charge of the event. 
—Paul C. Hughes, Pres. 
Georgia 
FRANK JOHNSTON, Notre Dame freshman football coach, was the main speaker at the Club's 
h November meeting. The event %vas licid at Peacock Alley which included a talk by Johnston and a showing of football pictures. 
Houston 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was celebrated on December 12 with a Mass in St. Michael's Church follo\vcd by breakfast in the Tanglewood Hacienda. Father Guinan, president of St. Tliomas University, was the featured speaker. GENE MALLOY served as chairman of the pro­gram. Alumni families and their guests attended. 
Kansas 

{ Tlie Notre Dame Club of Kansas (Salina) held several meetings recently—one at JOHN C/\RHN*s ranch prior to die SMU-ND trip and anotlier at NORB SKELLEY's house. One hundred ten people were on the football train to Dallas. A wonderful time was had by all of those who made the trip. One hundred miles south, at U'icliita, wc were joined by the ^Vicllila alumni and non-alumni, increasing the group to approximately 100 more people. It was a 20-car train and ser\'ice and facilities were excellent. —^Norb Skellev 
Kansas City 

The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City sponsored a football trip to the Southern Methodist-Notrc V Dame game and approximately 225 people went to 
this game. It should prove a success for the 
scholarship fund. 
The Communion Breakfast December 12 was 
held at the Notre Dame dc Sion Institute. 
The Christmas dance was held Tuesday, De­
cember 28, at the President Hotel. There was a 
free cocktail hour from 7:30 to 8:30—sit down din­
ner from 8:30 to 9:30 and dancing from 9:30 to 
1:00 a.m. Students also attended and a big turn­out of alumni were there—totaling approximately 250 to 275 people. 
Mrs. Ann HJggins, mother of CHxVRLES HIG­GINS, 649 West Meyer Blvd., Kansas City, Mis­souri, won the benefit drawing for a free trip to the Southern Methodbt-Notrc Dame game, includ­ing hotel, roriind trip tickets to the game. 
—Rus5 Fanrell 
Los Angeles 
Tlie club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on Sunday, December 5, 1954. Mass was cele­brated at St. Tlieresa's Church, Alhambra, and breakfast ^vas 5er\'ed at the Marino House in Pasadena. 
The annual holiday dance which was attended by 
alumni and Notre Dame students was held at the 
Himtington-Slieraton Hotel, Pasadena, on Decem­
ber 28. 
The annual Notre Dame Sports Dinner on No­
vember 8 featured Tom Harmon as master of 
ceremonies, GEORGE TR/\FTON, guest speaker, 
and entertainment by Miss Peggy King and Johnny 
Carson. Tom Harmon definitely gained the lop 
spot for future Notre Dame activities with the 
finesse which he demonstrated in acting as master 
of ceremonies at the sports dinner event. 
Mohawk Valley 
A very successful Communion Breakfast was held by the club on December 12. Ahimni and friends attended Mass at St. John's Church, Utlca, and later assembled at the Hotel Utica for breakfast. Twenty-five were in attendance. LOU CLARK, '34, and BOB PURCELL, '46, served as co-chair­men of the affair. .VNTHONY GIRU2ZI, '36, spoke briefly to the group. 
Monongahela Valley 
The club's family enrollment was increased by one, Sept. 19 when my ver>* cooperative wife pre­sented me with our second son. Louts Wilson Apone II. Tliat makes the count tliree and t^^t) now with daughters holding the upper hand. The new one has already made up his mind about college. He was gurgling the Victory March yes­terday. The words were a little jumbled but there 
was no mistaking the tune. 
ToTmcr Club President VINCE CAPANO, *26, 
has been sent back to tlie State Legislature by the 
good constituents of his Washington County. 
ED DEAN, *28, has taken a new position in St. 
Louis with Koppers Company. Formerly with 
Pittsburgh Steel, Monessen, Pa., wc were sorry to 
see Ed leave. He did yeoman service to insure 
success of club functions. Our loss is St. Lou's 
gain. 
CHARLES "BUD" MONTGOMERY, '35, an­
other Pittsburgh Steel Company alumnus has taken 
a position with the Pittston Company. Bud and 
Ed were the club's one-two punch. Although 
Bud's still with us he's up in the air most of the 
time (in a plane of course) flying to the company's 
various plants as analyst and trouble shooter. 
FRANK SADLER, '51, has been transferred from 
U. S. Steel's Donora plant to their Research Lab in Kearny, N. J. It happened the week of the Pitt-ND game so Frank missed his only chance to sec the '54 Irish in action. 
PAUL PUGLIA, '41, took unto himself a bride 
last June and is now residing in his new apart­
ment in WajTiesburg, Pa. This is the first year 
since graduation that Paul has failed to see an 
Irish game but his Buick agency and loan com­
pany keep him too busy. 
DR. M. P. WARD, '30, gave his oldest son, 
Tom, a look at the Notre Dame campus and the 
Notre Dame team when they look in the Tcxas-ND 
game. If the lad keeps growing up and out at the 
same steady pace ND has a Ward in her future. 
Saw the Michigan State-ND game on theater television in Pittsburgh. Sounded like 5,000 ND voices in the throng but all I bumped inio were DxVVE FLOOD, the '52 footballer, and D.AN BRODERICK, '41, with his wife, the former Yolande Gordon. She's still as pretty as when Dan was a-courtin' her at St. Mary's. 
Saw LARRY WELSH, '32, at 6 o'clock -Mass in Washington, Pa., while awaiting the arri\'al of my new son. Larry is an insurance adjuster with Greyhound Lines. 
Was disappointed in not seeing' more ND'crs at the Pitt game. JIM BRUTZ, '42, star tackle on FRANK LEAHY'S first -undefeated team, and his. charming new bride Adelc, stopped in our room at the Park Schenley Hotel and rehashed old times. at St. Ed's. 
J. VINCE SOISSON, '26, has been promoted to Vice President of 'West Pcnn Power Co. VInce resides in Grcensburg, Pa., but commutes to his AVashington, Pa., headquarters. Missed him at the Pitt game. 
Expected to sec JIM RUSSELL, '29, ART PA­LUSO, '49, ED SENDEK, '43, AL ROMEO and NINI REN2I, '44, and TOM KAL-MAN, '39. Hope it was business instead of ill health that kept tbem away. Somebody notified me that they couldn't attend but in the interim I've forgotten who it Avas. I believe it was DICK BREHL, '53, Wash­ington, Pa. 

BALTIMORE—One of the featured speakers at the cIuVs Navy-Notre Dame rally was Governor Theodore R. McKcldin of Maryland (standing). Others include (L. to R.) Edward J. O'Brien, chairman, Joe Boland, toastmaster, and Jim Murray, club president. 
Notrg Damt Alumnus, January-Ftbruaryf 1955 
SALINA—^Thc club's football excursion to the Notre Danie-SMU game included alumni and friends from Salina and Wichita. Photo on left, L. to R.: Al Schwartz, Alice Schivartz, Al^s sister, unidentified Santa Fc train porter and Norb SkcIIey. Photo on right, George Schwartz (standing) Foundation governor of Kansas. 
GEORGE MARTIXET, '34, Industrial Engineer 

at Pittsburgh Steel Co.'s Allcnport plant, rushed 
in, saw the game, and rushed right back home 
again. 
—Louis Apone, Prcs. 
New Haven 

T7ie XD Club of Xciv Haven plans a meeting on January 17, at vvhicli time wc hope to liave a plcnipotentiar>' session, and also sJiow a few timely film clips of the great ND football team of '54-. Brother BOB I1:\LP1N, '34, has been on furlough once or twice from his x\nny Air Force hilcli in Newfoundland; the old boy is still looking fine, and is bracing himself for the final year of his scr\*icc "abroad." 
Notre Dame High School of West Haven, Conn., taught by the C.S.C. Brothers, closed out an un­defeated, untied season on Tlianksgiring Day when thc>' defeated Hanidcn 19-0. Tliey have been ciioscn by the Associated Press sports writers in Connecticut as the top team in the state and have received the trophy emblematic of such supremacy. It is the first time a parochial or non-conference scho<»l has ever won this honor. Our hats arc off to Coach Janenda's boys. 
Tlic ND Club of New Ha%'cn entered an exhibit for tlie University at the annual College Fair sponsored by the Catholic Graduate Chib of Nc^v Haven. 
—^Joseph P. Bums, Secy. 

New Jersey 
Progress this year has been made with the scliol­arship fund under the direction of TOM FAR­RELL. Last year it was decided to set up a fund of 52400 for a four-year sdiolarship with a stipend of $600 annually. This money is on hand and will be forwarded to the University in the near future to take care of the student entering next Fall. Tom has a committee of distingtiishcd Catholic sclioolmcn who will process applicants starting after the beginning of the second half of the scliool year. 
New York City 
The Rev. John J. Corridcn, S.J., Francis W. H. Adams, police commissioner of New York, and Rev*. Cosmas Shaughncssy, C.P., director of the Passionist Monastery Retreat House, were featured speakers on the club*s Communion Simday pro­gram. Father Corriden is famous as the "Waters front Priest." The Mass was held at St. Patrick's Cathedral and breakfast followed at the Hotel 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, January-Ftbruary, 1955 
Biltmore. .ANTHONY F. EARLEY, JR., was 
chairman of the committee. 
A buffet preceding the Notre Dame-N*\'U basket­

ball game was under the co-chairmanship of JOHN 
DUFFY and BILL FALLON on Saturday, January 
8, 1955. 
FATHER BERNARD RANSING. the club's chaplain, was seriously injured, in an automobile accident while visiting his home in Lancaster, Pa., before IcaWng for Rome. We ask >t)ur prayers for his complete and speedy recovery*. FATHER ED­MOND HAMMER has consented to ser\c as our new cliaplain. Fatlicr Hammer is a member of the 1936 Class. 
Members of the nominator's committee for the election meeting include JORDAN HARGRO\% cliairman. JAMES CL^TCES, JLM McGOLDRICK, TON*V ErVRLEY, Dx\N CUNNINGH/VM, GREG RICE and TIERNEY O'ROURKE. 
Northern California 
Tlie Notre Dame club of Northern California held t^vo annual social affairs in December: 
Tlie annual Christmas Ball (semifomial) was held in the Italian Room of the St. Francis Hotel on Dec. 23, beginning at 9 p.m. Members of the Notre Dame Wives' club decorated the room. DICK AMES and VINCE OPENHEIM headed the sodal committee, while A. WARD McCULLEN was general dance cliairman. The annual dinner honoring the Wsiting Notre Dame football players who took part in the East-West Shrine Hospital classic was held at Rickey's Studio Club, Palo Alto, on Sunday, Dec 26, at 6 p.m. BILL DALY, JOE REUTZ and TOM SHELLWORTH were the committee. Ladies were guests of club members. Tliis is usually a stag affair. 
Members of tlic 1954 Irish who played in the East-West game and attended the dinner with East CoacJi EDDIE ANDERSON were DAN SHANNON, JOE HEAP and RALPH GUGLIELMI. 
Special guest of honor at the dinner was FATHER BROUGHAL, C.S.C., now obscn-ing his Golden Jubilee in the priesthood. 
—John O'Connor 

New Orleans 
Tlic Xlctory Dinner Dance held at the New Orleans Countr)* Chib on Saturday, October 9, proved to be a great success. 
Bec:ause of the large number of members who attended the Notre Dame^MU game, the New Orleans section did not hold Uni\*ersal Communion Sunday on Sunday, December 5, but rather will have a Communion Breakfast during the Sugar 
Bowl activities in conjunction with a Mass for 
the basketball team. 
—William H. Johnston, Pres. '' 

Oregon 
Following what is becoming an annual custom, 45 members, wives and friends of the Notre Dame Club of Oregon were guests at the beautiful Port­land home of DR. and Nfrs. R^VLPH M. VRAG, '27, for a cocktail party Saturday evening, Novem­ber 20. The primary purpose of the occasion was to give those attending the opportunity of be-• coming better acquainted and to promote interest in the other functions on the Club's agenda. Tlirough their efforts and graciousness. Dr. and Mrs, Prag, with the able assistance of JIM MALI­TIS, '50, and GERRY KERNS, *5I, made Uie evening a great success and one which will be . remembered for some time by those attending. ^ 
Among tliose present and deserving special men­tion were: WILLL\.M "BILL" SCH.MITT, 'JO; 
J. J. Mca\RTHY, '04, and DR. WILLIAM A. SHEr\, •02. Postmaster ALBERT M. "DUKE" HODLER, *23, was to have been guest of honor but, due to prior commitments, was unable to attend. 
—Neil H. Running, Secy. 

Philadelphia 
The club's annual Communion Mass and break­fast was held on Sunday, December 12. Mass was celebrated in St. John's Churcli and the breakfast was held in the Adelphia Hotel. Guest speakers in­cluded Rev. John J. CofTci', O.S.A., director of the Augustinian Seminar>- Guild, and GEORGE DICK­SON, assistant football coacli at Notre Dame, j Families of members were guests at the affair. WILLIAM G. BURSS was program fJiairman. 
The club's Friday night rally and Saturday cocktail party held on the Penn same week end were most successful. Our thanks to JOHN MOREHEAD and his committee for an excellent job. Also, our gratitude to CLIFF PRODEHL and his committee for their fine handling of the football excursion to the Naxy game. 
Phoenix 
Notre Dame men and their wives got together at a TV party and luncheon for the ND-SMU game. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES FARRELL and Mr. and Mrs. HUGH RANK were co-chairmen. 
Notre Dame Alumni have reserved a table for./ 
noon lunches at the American Legion Social Hall. Officers elected for the Notre Dame Wives* Club of Phoenix for the '54-'55 season arc: Mrs. William 
J. Molioncy, Jr., President; Mrs. Gene Hoeschlcr, Secretary; Mrs. Donald Butler, Treasurer. 
—John J. Schouten, Secy. 
Pittsburgh 
The Commtmion Breakfast was cclcliratcd this year at the Toner Institute on December 5. FATHER VINCENT BRENNAN, club chaplain, celebrated the Mass while Father Regis P. Krali, our host and director of the Institute, was featured speaker at the breakfast. BEN GESSLER was chairman of the event. 
The club's scholarship dance was held on Janu­ary 1, 1955, at the Hotel Schenlcy with alumni and Notre Daiiie students in attendance. C(\RL LINK was general chairman of the dance committee. 

. y. JOHN MacCVULEY and JIM FRICK from the Notre Dame Foundation Office were guest speak­ers at the club's weekly liinchcoti on November 4­Thc luncheon is now held at the Variety Club, first floor, William Pcnn Hotel, eacli Tlmrsday. 
E/\RL BRIEGER, club president, and TOM GILLESPIE, sccrclarj-, represented the University at the Shalcr Township High School College and Career Night, November 9. Altogether, there were some 45 educational institutions represented at the meeting. 
As the ALUMNUS goes to press, GEORGE KINGSLEY is busily arranging the annual retreat ivhich is scheduled at St. Paul's Monastery, Ja 
Janu­ary 7, 8 and 9. —T. G. Gillespie, Jr., Seo". 
Rock River Valley 
The club sponsored a football excursion to the lowa-Notre Dame game this fall. About 150 people enjoyed the trip. Hot cofTee was scn,cd on tlic bus en route and lunch was available after tJie group arrived at the stadium. Green derby hats with '*Go Irish" in white and a white sham­rock were passed out to all as the bus left Sterling. 
San Antonio 
The club sponsored a special train to the Notre Damc-SMU game. Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday was held on December 19 since some members did not return from Dallas on December 5 until the afternoon. 
GEORGE STROHMEYER was featured as guest speaker at the award banquet for Notre Dame ol Kerr\illc*s "Little Fighting Irish" on December 
12. Judge Ah M. HECK, a member of the School of Law faculty from 1917 to 1920, has been selected as chairman of the -united drive for finan­cial assistance for three local Catholic colleges— Our Lady of the Lake, Incarnate Word and St. Mar>-*s University. 
—Ralph T. Struhs, Prcs. 
Shreveport 
The new Ark-La-Tex Alumni Club_ as a group attended the 1954 SMU-Notre Dame game in Dallas. It appeared that all the alumni in this  area were present for the game. 
—George J. Despot, Secj-.-Treas. 
Southern Colorado 
The Notre Dame Club of Southern Colorado held its fall meeting at the "Top of the Town" Club in Pueblo, Colo., on November 21. 
About 30 members and guests were present \vhich constituted a good turnout for this area. 
Two films obtained from the campus were shown. Botti were enjoyed very much. 
Additional information on the special train trip to the SMU-ND, lootball game was presented. A few of the group plan to make the trip. 

r —James P. Abbott, Secy.-Treas. 
South Jersey 
The Club realized almost $800 from actinties in 
connection with the Penn game. One hundred 
dollars will be sent to the Foundation and the 
balance will be deposited in trust for our Schol­
arship Fund. 
An enthusiastic group journeyed to Baltimore for 
the Na\y game and the Club was out en masse for 
the Penn game. Many members crossed the river 
to attend the Rally and Cfxiktail Party sponsored 
by the Philadelphia Club. The Philly group did 
their usual grand job and we were happy to throw 
a little business their way. 
Needless to say, the Club was overjoyed with 
the transfer of the 1955 Pcnn game to Philadelphia. 
Nice going. Moose. 
The Club closed the Marian year with corporate Communion at Christ the King Church, Haddon­ficld, Dec 5. REVEREND JOSEPH M. HAYDEN was the celebrant and principal speaker at the breakfast to follow. We are very grateful for the spiritual giiidancc given by Father Hayden, our Chaplain. 
Our Third Annual Christmas Charity Activity was handled very capably by PAT Cr\RR. Tlie Club has derived great pleasure from clothing a needy family in our area at Christmas. 
—James A. ^Vebb, Pres. 
St. Joseph Valley 
The club completed another successful Tuesday Quarterback Luncheon Club on November 30, with the appearance of BERNIE CRIMMINS of Indi­ana, Stu Holcomb of Purdue, witli BILL FOX of the Indianapolis News as the toastmaster. FRANK MESSICK ser\"ed as general diairman for the sbc meetings, and was ably assisted by DON FISHER, BOB LEHMAN, BILL GIBBONS, JOE DOYLE, and CHET GR/\N*T. 
The 35th Ci\ic Testimonial Banquet, honoring the 1954 Football team was held in the University Dining Hall on Thursday, December 9. The head­liners included Warren Brown, Toastmaster; Hugh "DufTy" Daughcrty, Head Coach of Michigan State; Dr. A. B. Moore, President of the NCAJ\ from the University of Alabama; TERRY BREN­NAN; Mayor JOHN A. SCOTT; ED MIESZKOW­SKI, Head Coach of Chicago's Mount Cannel, Champion of tlie Catholic League; and ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. Bill Gibbons and Bob Lehman %vcrft co-chairmen with H. T. \\'AITE, JR., RUDY GOEPFRICH, JOHN CACKLEY, DICK CLE.-VRY and JERRY HICKEY as chairmen of \'arious committees. 
—^Jerrj' Hickey, Secy. 
St. Louis 
TIic club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 12 with Mass at the Immacolata Parish and breakfast in the churcit cafeteria. BERT COUGHLIN scr\ed as diairman for the afTair. 
FT. WAYNE—^The club*s annual football 
Tampa-St. Petersburg 
MoWes of the controversial 1953 Notre Dame-Iowa grid dash highlighted the November meeting of this newly organized Alumni Club. It was after that game that an Irish tackle was charged with "feigning" an injury in the dying seconds to gi\*c the Irish a vital time out. Undefeated Notre Dame scored on the next play and the game ended in a 14-14 draw. Friends of the University also attended. 
The St. Petersburg chairman was ROY DEEB. The balance from the proceeds was given to the Notre Dame Foundation. 

The association has about 85 members in the , area—^Tampa, Clear^v-ater, St. Petersburg, Braden-ton, and Sarasota. 
Toledo 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo has 182 reg­istered and paid members on the roster. The membership is rsprcscnted at most of Toledo's manufacturing plants and, in addition, there are 22 attomej-s and five doctors on the roster. Com­merce degrees seem to be the most popular with more than 50 members having been graduated from the College of Commerce. Law and pre-law come next for a total of 22 while the engineers have 21. One hundred fort>- of the 182 paid members hold degrees from the University with many of the remaining members holding various degrees from otlier universities. Production-uise, the alumni are progressing with an average of two children for each member. However, it's going to be necessary to marry off the 36 bachelors soon to keep the law of averages ' on an even keel. Children of the Toledo alumni number 159 sons and 160 daughters. There are also 31 grandchildren—over hall of whom belong to JOE TILLNfAN, JR,, »21. Joe is a bit ahead of the field with four sons and three daugh­ters which helps to explain the high ratio of grandsons and granddaughters. Thirty members have four or more children. 
—Jim Schoen 
Tri-Cities 

The Tri-Citics Club is happy to announce a highly successful rally and dance held the night before the ND-Iowa game in the Blackhawk Hotel in Davenport. The team stayed at the hotel and took the train to Iowa City early Saturday morn­ing. The ND coadiing staff and University repre­sentatives were guests of the club for diimer Friday m'ght. At the rally, JOE BOLAND played MC in his usually clever manner and introduced the guest speakers which included MOOSE KRjVUSE, John Carmichael of the Chicago Daily News, TERRY BRENNAN, HERB JONES and 
 smoker in November -was highly succcssfuL 
L. to R.: Herman Centlivre and Bob Ccntlivre who were hosts for the event held at the Ccntlivrc Brewery; Art Frcricks, chairman of the event; Milliard Gates, newscaster at WKJG'TV and guest speaker on the program; Bob Kearney, club president; and Jim Parsons, newly-elected member of the cluVs board of directors. 
Notre Dante Alumnus, JaMuary-Februarj, 
WASHINGTON, D. C—Club members and guests enjoyed an "Irish Beer Bust" November. 
FATHER HESBURGH. Many out-of-town guests Notre Dame-Purduc game. As might be expected, 
attended tin* rally and \vc arc sure that they were mixed emotions existed both prior to and after 
as impressed by Father Hcsburgh and tlic other the game, howc\'er, nothing seemed to dampen the 
representatives of the University that night as rousing good time had by all. Under the leader­
they were by the team on Saturday. ship of DR. KEN LAWS, BILL RUNGE and 
The club finished its year's program with our BILL SCHRADER, a turnout of over 450 football Men's Corporate Communion Breakfast on Decem­fans enjoyed the successful venture. ber 5 at St. Ambrose College Chapel and the 
Tlierc was a large turnout for the Universal student lunclieon at the Blackhawk Hotel on De­Xotrc Dame Communion Sunday December 5 in cember 29. The Family Corporate Communion St. Mary's Cathedral here in Lafayette. 

Breakfast is scheduled on the Sunday preceding A report will be made on the dance in the Universal Notre Dame Night. These events of next ALUMNUS. 
course are ouuide of those functions planned in —Dick McDonald, Sec\-­conjunction with the Xotrc Dame Wives group 
which include a square dance in January- and the 
annual St. Patrick's Day Dance. 
W'c have recentiv added to our fast-growing list 

of members the names of JACK BUSH, JOHN 
Washington, D. C. 
LUJACK, DR. C. B. McDONALD, ROBERT 
CORYN, RICHARD HALL, TERRY LANE, DR. 
On October 29, our group sponsored a prc-Navy ROBERT FOLEY, ROL/\ND MARTEL and ED 
Game Rally at the Sheraton-Park Hotel, where the DAILEY. We now have approximately 106 members. 
team was staying. The chairman for the event, BOB CORYN, son of RALPH CORYN, recently 
which was attended by over 500 people, was DR. married Mimi Wuntcr, St. Mar>-'s alumnae and 
JIM CORCORAN, who was ablv assisted by JIM daughter of HENRY WURZER. TJic>- arc living 
CASEY, JACK ANDERSON, GAY HAAS and in Davenport. 
DON KENNEDY, among others. TTie toastmaster for the evening was DUTCH BERGMAN. Notable JOHN LUJACK has moved to Davenport with guests who attended included Coach TERRY his w'de Pat and is in business with his father-in-BRENNAN; former Notre Dame end, DON law operating tlie Lujack-Scliicrbrock Che\Tolct PEX'ZA; and Navy guard, Stc\-e Eiscnhauer; the Company. 
latter two now playing with the Quantico Marine LEX SWOYER and his «ifc Ginger with their team. Redskins* representatives present were Coacli five children arc moi'ing to Bristol, Conn. Lcn JOE KUHARICH, WAYNE MILLXER, CHET has been transferred by the New Departure Divi­OSTROWSKI and JIM SCHRADER. Rev. E. 
sion of General Motors. 
Carl Lyon represented the CYO as a guest speaker. 
AL and Judy \VADE Iiad a baby boy in October. 

—Walt Dray, *40, Sccj-Trcas. The following week found our local club spon­
soring a special train trip to Philadelphia for the 
Pennsvlvania game. Tlie chairman of this trip uras 
JIM O'LAUGHLIN, ablv assisted by H/\RRY 
Tulsa STORCK, \aXCE HOGAX, and BOB SCHEL­
LENBERG. Boarding the train at Baltimore were 
After a three-month period of inactivity during JIM MURRAY (president of the Baltimore club) the summer months, the Notre Dame Club of Tulsa and a group of his friends. resumed its monthly Communion Breakfast meet­
Our "Irish Beer Bust" took place on the evening ings in September. 

of November 16, and at no more appropriate place On October 20 the club held a special luncheon than the Hcuricli Brewer>'. Chairman MYLES meeting in honor of ARCH WARD, Sports Editor QUAIL, JR., made the arrangements for over of the Chicago Tnbune, who wns tlic guest 100 persons who attended this affair. Ex-Notre speaker. Dame football stars TOM MURPHY and JOHN The club's two "Big Events" for the month of LANDRY enjoyed the evening with the others. December were the football train to Dallas for the Committeemen who assisted Mvles were JIM SMU-ND game, and the annual Christmas dance. CURRAN, DON FIDLER, CHARLES KREBS and A lot of planning and hard work by JOHN G. FRANK CACCIPAGLIA (photographer for the MADDEN, train cliairman, made the football trip cv'cning). a big success. Tlic profits from this trip wlM go Ttic drawing for our local football rafBc was to the scholarship fund to send local students to held on November 18 at the Shcraton-Carlton the University of Notre Dame Tlic annual Christ­Hotel. The lucky winners' names were lifted from mas dance was held on December 28 under the tlic bowl by Singer Ann Cro\vlej-. The most v-alu­cliairmanship of ROBERT D. SHEEHAN. able award (all-expense trip for two persons to —R. F. Shechan, Sccj'.-Trcas. Notre Damc-Southem Cal) was won by Marj* C. Vamhom of Baltimore, Mar>'land, the seller of thU ticket being P. McCARTHY. JOE BORDA handled all arrangements for the raffle with help from JOHN FRANZ and BILL DENNING. 
Wabash Valley 
Chairmen of the Club's annual Communion 

Under the Joint sponsorship of the Wabash Val-Breakfast were DR. JOHN C. MURPHY and for le>' Notre Dame Club and the Purdue Alumni Club -the Christmas dance ANDY AUTH. Working with of Lafayette, a special train was engaged for the Andy for tlic latter event were TOM CLEARY, 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus^ January-February, 1955 
TOM LENNAN, GEORGE HOWARD, JR., and JAMES WELCH, plus the following student rep­rescntatix-cs: GAY HAAS, JR., NEIL O'BRYAN, and WALTER MURPHY. 
The Mass was held at Holy Cross Seminary on > Dec 5. Breakfast vfas serv-ed in the Seminary's^ dining room and the featured speaker was Msgr. Maurice Shcehy, Rear Admiral (Ch. Corps.) USNR, and now head of the Religious Education Dept. at Catholic U. 
Members of the local club were recently proud to learn that HxVRRY J. KIRK, Class of 1913, was selected to receive the annual St. Vincent dc Paul medal for his work among the poor and afflicted during the past forty years. 
—Robert J. Schcllenberg, Jr. 

West Virginia 
Tlie alumni club's Christmas party was held at the Kanawha Country Club at 5:30 p.m. Decern-, . bcr 28, 1954. Since the ALUMNUS goes to press \ before tlic news of this event is ready, there vnW be more information in a later issue. 
All members please note that the $5 annual dues arc now pavablc either to the club president DR. RYAN or to the club secretary- CORNELIUS DESMOND (the latter can be reached at 1503 Dixie Street, Charleston, W. Va.). 
—Cornelius T. Desmond, Scc>-. 

Western Washington 
Tlie Western Washington Notre Dame Club held a Smoker on November 16, 1954 in the beautiful SVy Room of the Washington Athletic Club. The magnificent view of Pugct Sound, the Black Ball ferries, the warships, and the colorful twinkling \^ lights of Seattle were thrilling indeed. So was the good fellowship, and the opportunity to swap yams with other Notre Dame men. Eighteen lox-al Notre Damers attended this meeting. Tlie>- were: PAT­RICK D. SUTHERLAND, DON SULLU'AN, JAMES H. KELLEHER, DR. CLARE SHANNON, PHILIPPE T. HOSTERMAN, RICHARD MEE­SOX, JOSEPH a\RROLL, THEODORE P. CUM­.MIXGS, AL TOTH, PATRICK GOGGIX, ED­AN'ARD M. TOBIN, JOSEPH LOTTA. JAMES McAfAHON, BURT J. HALL, CHARLES S. La-CUGNA, EMMETT G. LENIHAN and the REV­EREND PHILIP H. DUFFY, Chaplain of our Club. BURT HALL did a swell job as cliairman of the smoker. 
After a delightful dinner, there was a short business meeting at which Jim Kellehcr discussed the matter of raising funds for deser\-ing law stu­dents. A Dircctor>' Committee was appointed, and -^ the organization of a Telephone Committee vfzs undertaken. 
Our Club is very proud of the leadership quali­ties being demonstrated by its members. We have several men who are very active in politics in their respective communities. Wc are happy to report that PATRICK D. SUTHERLAND was elected State Senator for the 37th District in the State of Washington, JIM KELLEHER u-as elected Justice of the Peace at Kent, Wash. He is also now a director of the Notre Dame Bar Association. CHARLES LaCUGNA was elected Precinct Commit­teeman for the fM^th Precinct in Seattle on tlie Dem­ocratic ticket. DON SULLIV/\N gave the National Amateur Golf Champion and present Congressman from tlie Second Congressional District in \Vash­
ington a terrific battle in the recent elections. TED CUMMINGS ran a strong race as a candi-, date for the State Legislature in his district. } 
The Annual Communion Breakfast was held on Dec 5. The Mass u-as in St. James Cathedral and the breakfast took place in the Sorrento Hotel. It was a special event in closing the Marian Year. PHILIPPE T. HOSTERMi\N did a fine job of diairmanning the program. 
—Bernard J. Lenoue, Sec>-. 

Wiiliamsport 
Our annual Christmas vacation banquet for alumni and students ^v-as headed by HARRY KRIMM. FRANK HAYES, BILL DOWNS, PETE SOMERVILLE, and JOHN WILLMANN were the Committee. 
—John B. Willmaun. .^ 
the insurance business in Xcw York for 21 years and in that time scrx'cd on the Mortgage Commu­sion of the Fire Insurance Association and with the Aetna Co., the Home Insurance Co., the Fldel­ity-Phocnix Fire Insurance Co., and the George 

jmM^fW^'Mi^ S'l' hlfSi"' 
W. Brown Sons, Inc. 
Marrigges 
Miss Sara Gilmorc and DA\aD B. MOXCRIEF, '41, Charleston, W. Va. Miss Mary Jane Rowantree and FRjVNCIS G. CONSLER, '50, Chicago, 111., November 27. Miss Joan Marjoric Jost and THOMAS E. HUBER, '51, Milwaukee, Wis., November 20. Miss Betty May Sampson and LT. WILLIAM J. DONELiVN, III, '52, Grccmvood, Miss., May 29. 
Miss Rose Marie Oppcnheim and JOHN J. DIL­ENSCHNEIDER, '53, Notre Dame, Ind., Sep­tember II. 
Miss Patricia Mary Schreiber and THOMAS J. y MURPHY, '53, Walton, N. Y., November 27. Miss Carol Colbert and JAMES C. NOONAN, '53, Notre Dame, Ind., November 25. Miss Doris Mae Lavin and DONALD F. CUD­DIHEE, '« , June 12. Miss Maureen Stark and MARK R. McaVBE, '54. Rivcrhead, X. Y., October 16. 
Births 

Mr. and Mn. BERNARD FRANCIS BREHL, '42, a son, Stephen Victor, November II, 1954. .Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES E. KAPLAN, '30, a son, Michael Egan, August 3. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. SULLIVAN, '31, a son, Michael, August 6. -Mr. and Mrs. HUGH E. WALL, JR., '36. a son, Timothy Joseph, October 14.  Mr. and Mrs. WALTER DILVY, '40, a daughter, Kathryn Marian, April 9. Mr. and Mrs. HARRY J. McKNIGHT, JR., '43, a son, Terence Edward, September 25. .Mr. and -Mrs. WAYNE A, SHRIWISE, '43, a son, Brian George, November 20. Mr. and Mrs. WILLLVM J. WALDRON, JR., '44, a son, John Francis, December I. -Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS C. COLLER,VN, '47, a son, Timothy Patrick, October 28. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. CONWAY, '47, a son, WUiam Campion, October 14. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN B. MEYERS, '47, a daugh­ter, Leila Marie, August 29. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. COMSTOCK, '48, a daughter, Patricia Mary, October 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. BRENNAN, '49, a son, John Christopher, November 8. Mr. and Mrs. CALLIX E. MILLER, JR., '49, a k son, David Michael, October 2. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES MOUCH, JR., '50, a son, Robert Charles, September 18. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. WALSH, '50, a son, Edward JefTrcy, November 9. Mr. and Mrs. FR<«<'K M. BOLLER, JR., '51, a daughter, Marian Joy, November 22. Mr. and Mrs. A. THOMAS LYNCH, '51, a daughter, Sarah Jane, November 29. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID L.\JOIE, '53, a son, David, Jr., June, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. MAHONEY, '53, a son, John J. Jr., September, 1954. -Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT H. DxWIDSON, '54, a daughter, Susan Marie, November 9. Mr. and Mrs. WARREN C. RIGGS, '34, twin daughters, September 13. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. .MOLIN, '40, a daughter, Elizabeth, November 2. ^ Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. SACOM,\NO, '32, a son, Joseph John, November 9. 
Obituary 
ANTON C. STEPH.\N, *04, captain of tlic 1903 University of Notre Danie baseball team and re­tired Chicago executive, died Nov. 20, 1954, in the stands while watching the Irish-Hawkcyc grid clash at Iowa City. 
Mr. Stephan in 1940 retired as vice president and treasurer of the Devoe-Raynolds Paint Company. He was extremely active in the ahtmni club and Notre Dome Foundation programs. Several years ago Mr. Stephan was named **Man of tlie Year" by Chicago alumni. 
Survivors include the widow; two sons, Edmund A., *33, and Robert F.; a daughter, Mrs. Robert F. Russell; 12 grondcliitdrcn; and three sisters. 
JOHN L. WORDEN, '05, of 1011 E. Madison St., South Bend, Ind., died in July, 1954. 
HARRY D. DODGE, '11, Minneapolis automo­
tive exporter from 1916 to 1949, died at the age of 
65 Sept. 26, 1954, after three years of illness. 
A graduate of Notre Dame and Georgetown Uni­
versities, he had been managing director of Dodge 
Brothers, Ltd., in England, Europe and South Af­
rica and president of the export division, Kaiser-
Frazer Motors. Mr. Dodge was a friend of the 
late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, and a class­
mate of Leo, the brother of the Rev. Matthew 
Schumacher, C.S.C., now chaplain at St. Mary's 
College, Notre Dame. 
Mr. Dodge sufTcred a stroke Aug. 30, 1951, and 
was bedridden until the time of his death. He is 
sur\'ived by Iiis wife. 
CHARLES CROWLEY, '13, former head football 
coach at Columbia and the end for whom Knute 
Rocknc %vas once understudy, died at his Cam­
bridge, Mass., home on Nov. 3, 1954. 
A grid star at Har\'ard and subsequently a' team­
mate of Rocknc and Dorois at Notre Dame, Mr. 
Crowley entered Notre Dome's law sdiool after 
being graduated from Har\-ard. He was a "great 
end at Har\'ard" in his undergraduate days, and 
he didn't have mudi trouble making the Notre 
Dome football team. Among those competing for 
that end spot was a young Norwegian—Knute 
Rocknc. The best the "Rock" could do for awhile 
Was to "act as understudy to Charlie." 
A veteran of AVorld AVar I and "an excellent 
lawyer," itr. Crowley, after getting a law degree 
from Notre Dame, x%*ent to Columbia as a football 
coaching assistant to his former Hani-ard mentor, 
P. D. Haughton. When Haughton died, he took over the head coaching job at^Columbia and also wrote a football column for the New York Times. 
AMOS K. CLAY, '14, of 601 E. Linden Avenue, Mtamisburg, 0., died recently. 
ROL.VND J. GAUPEL, n5—founder of the 
Roland J. Gaupel Co., Los Angeles, manufacturer; 
and wlioh-salc distributors of X-ray-physical therapy 
apparatus and supplies—died July 8, 1954, in his 
Santa Monica, Calif., home. 
A member of the balloon corps in World War I, 
Mr. Gaupel founded his Los Angeles firm more 
than' 17 years ago. Prior to that time, he hod 
been for many years vice president of the Dick 
X-Ray Company, Inc. of St. Louis, Mo. After 
becoming seriously ill in the fall of 1943, he sold 
the Gaupel Company to Ho\v-ard Edgar of Los 
/Vngelcs. 
Sur\-ivors include the widow, two dauglitcrs, a 
granddaughter, grandson, and a sister. 
CH.VRLES AL A. MARTIN, '23, Michigan's As­sistant Attorney General in cliarge of the Detroit ofHce, collapsed and died of a heart attack while working Nov. 20, 1954. He was talking with a caller at the counter in his Cadillac Square Build­ing office when stricken. A fire department resusci­tator was unable to revive him and he was dead on arri\"ing at Detroit's Receiving Hospital. 
Bom in Bay City, Mr. Martin practiced law in Detroit from 1926 to 1939, when he took his first job as attorney for the Secretary of State, 
Later he joined the Attorney General's staff and ser\'cd as legal counsel for the Liquor Control Commission from 1943 to 1950. He became legal adviser then for the Michigan Public Scr\'icc Com­mission until becoming head of the Detroit office in 1952. A member of Detroit's Notre Dame Club, Ihc deceased is sur\'ived by his wife—the former Mar\' Louise Hcnner—and four daughters, Mar\', Jane, Cherry, and Jean. 
.VNDREW H. WOLSKI, '25, died March 13, 1954. He ^^•as a graduate of the University of Notre Dame law school. Survivors include his widow and a son, Joseph. 
iVLBERT N. BUTLER, JR., *33, wee president and director of Newhouse and Hawley, Inc., of New York, died suddenly Nov. 20, 1954. 
The son of Albert N. Butler, Sr., the former deputy superintendent of the New York Insurance Department, Mr. Butler was closely associated with 
ALBERT N. BUTLER, JR., '33 
He was a member of the Notre Dame Club of 
New York, the Scawanc Harbor Club, and the 
Drug and Chemical Club. 
Sur\'i\'ors include the wife, Rita; sons Albert 
James and Paul Francis, both students at Yale 
University; his mother, Katherine M.; a brother, 
James J.; and a sister, Mrs. Helen Holland BelL 
PROF. DAVID L. CAMPBELL, from 1925 to 1940 a professor of English on the University of Notre Dame faculty, died Dec. 10 at his South Bend, Ind., home. 
A graduate of Loras College, Dubuque, la., and a native of Rockwell, la., Mr. Campbell received his master's degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1929. 
Mr. Campbell was a member of the Knights of Columbus, South Bend. Council 533, and of the Holy Name Society of St. Joseph's Parish, South Bend. 
Survivors include his wife, t^vo sons, a daughter, two brothers, three sbtcrs, and two grandchildren. 
>nCHAEL DUNN STOLEY, '33, died on No­vember 17 in Akron. He was an active member of the Notre Dame Alumnt Club and is survived by his wife. Norma, and a sister, Mrs. Theodore Dettling of Akron. 
THOMAS J. CURR.-\N, '34, of 155 Newhall St., Ne\tf Haven, Conn., died reccndy. 
ROBERT V. CHAMBERLAIN, '40, of Pitts­burgh, Pa., died in October, 1954. He w-as associ­ated with the Peter F. Lofttis Corporation, en­gineering consultants. 
F. A. MILLER, president and editor of the South Bend Tribune, one of this nation's pioneer journal­ists, and an honorary alumnus of the University of Notre Dame, died Nov. 29, 1954, of a cerebral hemorrhage at Memorial Hospital, South Bend, Ind. 
TIic son of the Tribune's co-founder Alfred B. Miller, Mr. Miller joined the South Bend paper's staff on July 3, 1887, and remained with it for 67 years. He became majority stockholder in the Tribune on Dec 10, 1892, and become president and editor in June, 1924. 
The University of Notre Dame in 1950 conferred on Mr. Miller an honorary doctorate of laws. Sur\-ivors include the widow and a nephew, Mr. Franklin Schurc. 
THOMxVS P. HOL.MES, '51, of Muskegon, Mich., died in a plane crash Oct. 7, 1954. Notre Dame men of that city attended the Rosary for the de­ceased in a group. The funeral was held In Sacred Heart Churdi, Muskegon Heights. Tom and his wife, Betty Lou, were married two years ago. 
Sympathy 

JOSEPH A. LaFORTUNE, '16. on the death of his fatner, De c 24, 1954. JAMES F. REDDING, '10, on the death of his . mother, who died at the age of 95 Nov. 8. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, January'FebTuary, 1955 21 
CORNELIUS T. DESMOND. '51, on the death of his mother October 9. JAMES R. CRONIN, '33, on the death of his wife. 
PROF. JOHN FREDERICK of the University of Notre Dame English department on the death of his •ivifc. 
1904 

Supreme Court Judge ERNEST L. Ht\MAfER Is president of tlie LavcIIc Scliool for the Blind in New York City. Tliis school recently celebrated its 50th anniversar\- with a dinner-meeting at tlic BHtmorc Hotel. Speakers included Cardinal Spcll­man, ifayor U'agncr and Mr. Hammer. Cardinal Spellman presented a Papal Medal to Justice Hammer. 
JUDGE G. A. FARABAUGH was honored at a luncheon in Sacramento, Calif., by tbc Fraternal Order of Eagles. He was on a lour of California in behalf of the Eagles and llic memorial foundation. 
SO yeAR REUNION JUNE 10-11-l^ 
^ 5 yEAR REUNION JUNE 10-II-11 

1011  Fred L. Steers  
'  '  '  '  105 So. LaSalle  St.  
Chicago 3, Ulinois  
IQIO•'•• *  Mr. Paul R. Byrne  O'Shaughncssy Hall jVotre Dame, Ind.  
1014  Ron  O'Neill  
• '  ' ^  1359 No. Black Oak Dr.  
South  Bend  17, Indiana  

4 0 yEAR REUNION JUNE 10-11-12 
1015 Janies E. Sanford 
• 7 I .# 1429 W. Farrasut Avenue Chicago 40, Illinois 
T916 Grover F. Miller ' ' ' " 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
1017 Edivard J. McOskcr 
1 y I # 2205 Brianvood Road Cleveland Hgts. 18, Ohio 
101 P George E. Harbcrt 
•'" ' 108 No. Main Street Sycamore, Illinois 
101 0 Theodore C. Radcmaker Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 

22 Notre Dame Alumnus^ January-February, 1955 
WILLIAM D. JAMIESON, '05 

As the nation-wide TV audience applauds tlie rhetorical excellence of Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, there is a 75­ycar-old Chicagoan who must derive special satisfaction from tliis applause. 
He is William D. Jamieson, who as an instructor of debate, orator)', Eng­lish, and dramatics at St. Thomas' Col­lege, St. Paul, Minn., from 1907 to 1923, numbered among his students the famed TV Bishop and General Al­fred M. Gruenther, now head of the 
U. S. armed forces in Europe (NATO). During Mr. Jamieson's 18 years at St. Thomas, an estimated 700 clerics—some 20 of whom went on to become Bishops—came under his guidance. 
A 1905 cum laude graduate of tlie University of Notre Dame, Mr. Jamie-son in 1923 became president of Jamie-son Inc., of Chicago — nation-wide dealers in convent and church supplies and institution dry goods. After post­graduate courses at Chicago Univer­sity and a teaching stint at S t Ed­ward's College, Austin, Tex., he at­tended tlie St. Paul College of Law, and in 1915 was admitted to tlie Min­nesota Bar. 
In 1911, Mr. Jamieson married Ella Seeling, a graduate of St. Mary's Acad­emy, Austin, Tex., and the couple have nine children, the yoimgest of whom is Richard Alan who was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1950. 
35 yEAR REUNION JUNE 10-11-12 

1990 Ralph AV. Bergman 
• '^ ^ 1609 No. Jefferson Ave. St. Louis 6, Missouri 
1991 Dan W. Duffy 
•'^ ' 1101 W.B.C. Bldg. Clcvclanil 14, Ohio 
1 999 Gerald A. Ashe 
• '^ ^ 39 Cambridge Street Rochester 17, N. Y. 
\\'« are ddightcd to Iicar the great news that HUXK ANDERSON' is one of two football coaches selected by Chicago Tribiine Charities to coach the College All-Stars football team in preparation for ihcJr annual game against the champions of pro­fessional football. Be assured that Hunk will have that All-Star tfam front line in fine figliting trim for tbc game in Chicaijo next August. Indeed, if Hunk's co-coacli, CURLEY Iw\MBEr\U who organ­ized and coached the Green Bay Packers for many years had elected to stay at Notre Dame as a member of the clxss of 1922 instead of leaWng in December 1918, while siill a freshman, the College All-Slar coacliing staff would be 100% confined to our class. Wc congratulate Curlcy and Hunk and wish them success in their tough assignment of de­feating tJic champions of professional football. 
EDDIE ANDERSON, head coach of football at Ifoly Cross, again is honored by being selected as co-coach of the East football team for the an­nual East-West Shrine football classic played in San Francisco around New Year's Day. Eddie is teaming up with Bennie OostcHian of Michigan. Eddie is famed as a great conditioner of football men and holds die honor of being the last coach of the College /Vll-Siars to gain victory over the professionals in the Chicago classic Wc wisli Eddie success in his affair at San Francisco and 
some top flight ND football players should greatly assist. 
BUCK SH/\W and his colorful San Francisco 49'crs got off to a fine start in the western division of tiic National professional league but injuries to his key backfield player in mid-season hurt the team badly and the>' w-ere soundly trounced by the Detroit Lions in tlieir fast engagement. 
DAN YOXJ^G was at ND for the USC game. Dan reports be was very mucli surprised and ex­tremely happy to have PETE CH/\.MPION of Cleveland as a caller up at Aurora on the Minne­sota Iron Range where Dan is presently located. 
MtS5 Rutli Bloemer, daughter of FR/\NIC and Marie BLOEMER of Loubville, u-as married at Notre Dame, Indiana, on November 25 to THOM­/VS VIVI/\NO. We tender our congratulations and best ivishcs to the hridc and groora; also, our felicitations to the parents of the newly married fxiuplc. 
Wc hope the Christmas mail is heavily laden with news tidbits of our '22 classmates- £vcr>'body loves to read about tlic doings of hts dassmatcs, but all do not realize that tlicy tliemsclvcs arc tlie ones who make this department click. If cver>'body. is silent, or nobody writes, wc ^cX. no news. Just a few i»'Drds occasionaJIy u-ill bring a lot of pleasure to v-our friends. 
199^ Louis V- Bniggner 
• '^ ^ 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
MRS. AUGUST G. DESCH was elected presi­dent of the National Council of Catholic ^Vomen at its 27tli national convention in Boston, Mass. Classmates of CHARLES M. A. MARTIN, De­troit, Michigan, will be shocked to hear of his sudden death on November 17 in Detroit of a heart attack at work in his olHce. Charlie had been assistant stxtc attorney general of Afichigan in charge of tlic Detroit office. He is sur\ived by his widow, the former Mary Louise Hcnner, and 
four daughters, one of Uicm married. The family lived at 16592 Lasallc St., Detroit. Those of us who \-i5itcd -with Charlie at the 30th class rcum'on will remember the fun into ^\^lich Charlie entered whole-heartedly. However, JACK NORTON in a 
\lctter to this desk recalls that even then Charlie Jiad confided tliat he had been urs*^ to slow down his acti\*ities. 
Detailed news of Charlie's death came in a batch of Detroit Newspaper clippings, obligingly mailed by LOUIS CHESXOW, along \ritJi an iiiicresting note. I^uts, located in rcxmi 1963 National Bank Building in Detroit, b an architect and a former Day Dog, along willi us Soutti Benders who lived dangcrotLsly on tlie old Hill street **yclIow peril." 
Tiortoa also writes ".. . saw DICK N/VSH and RED SHE/V after tlic Texas game . . . ran into GEORGE DENVER .. . and JOHN STEPH.\N . . . LOUIE DeSMET and I worr>' together on Saturdays when the team is away from South Bend." '\\Tiy not drop mc a Knc, lellas? 
Speaking of relays of news to this desk: It took a double lateral pass In the mails, R>'an to Arm­,' strong to Bniggner, for this fine bit of news to reach yoii. ED RYAN, 113 Dement Street, Dixon, III., mailed to JIM ARMSTRONG a couple of pages from tlie Chicago Tribune magazine section, detailing some of the actlritics of one KEN KRIPPENE, law\'cr-author-cxpIorer. The story was written by a stunning young gal who, it appears, was a member of Ken's party of exploration in the wilds of Peru and the Amazon headwaters. The newspaper article was not dated but was apparently published last fall. In it tlic young lady describes her being hired as secretarv' to the adventurous Ken, along with some of the details of their South /Vmcrican adventure. Ken, she says, was imdcr contract to a Chicago publisher to write a new adventure book and needed someone to help w'ith his on-Uic-scene notes and maniL'^pts, not to men­tion his hagglings and sparring with sundr>' sav­ages. She concluded witli the prediction that she 
'' would soon be In tlie Arabian desert on another expedition as Mr. Krippene's secretar>'. 
FRrVNK DORIOT a few days ago stuck his head in at Bruggner's Book Bazaar scrounging tickets for the Southern Cal game. He missed me but, I am told, he got his tickets. 
Another of the "secretary's" news letters to 1923 men was mailed at about the time tliis %vas bung written. If any member reading tliis issue of the ALUMNUS has not received his I'd like to hear from ^-ou. 
1 924 ^*=^'- Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C. '^ ^ 4001 Harewood, N.E. ^^'ashillgton, D, C. 
R. CONROY SCOGGINS has been rc-clcctcd a ^ Supreme Director, Knights of Columbus. 
3 0 yEAR REUNION JUNE lO'IM-I 

10 0 c John P. Hurley I T^ a J218 City Park Avenue Toledo, Ohio 
Besides a wonderful turnout for the Nortli Caro­lina Reunion "Warm-Up"—your secretary got more news out of those postal cards than he has had since GEORGE CHAO, *25, and his family were caught In the Jap-Chlnesc War in the 1930's and you all crashed through with a buck and put tills starving family back on its feet. I got nc^^'s then— I have news now—the postals did it! Your secretary will give you a short summar>' of what's wiih the bo>'s but you \v-ill have to come to your 30th to get the details from them in person. Tliis Is news from the boys who could not be with us this fall but ^rill be on deck in June. 
BOB DIXON is with the F.D.I.C. Legal Di\-ision in the National Press Building in ^V'ashJngton, D. C. Bob writes: "1 had a heart attack in July but am now on my feet again. Regards to all l925en." 
HON. HARRY F. KELLY, '17 

The man who "put Michigan's finan­cial house in order' during a period of war-time inflation and one of that state's all-time great governors (1943­
48) has bohed back into the poHtical scene—this time as a justice of the Michigan Supreme Court. He is Harry 
F. Kelly, a 1917 graduate of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame law school and Michigan's former Secretary of State, who on Jan. 5 started an eight-year term as a j'udge of his state's highest tribunal. 
Permanently disabled as an infantry lieutenant in World ^Var I, Harry Kelly has spent much of his life in government service. An assistant pros­ecutor o[ Wa)'ne County in 1930, he was elected Secretarj' of State in 1938 and re-elected in 1940. His popularity in tliat office was such tliat in 1942 he was unopposed for the Republican nomination for Governor and went on to unseat Democratic Governor Mur­ray D. Van AVagoner. Two years later he was re-elected to his second term as Governor at the same time Michigan voters were expressing a fourth term presidential preference for Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kelly are the parents of six children including twins Harry, '53, and Brian, '53, in the military service; La\vrence, a junior at Michi­gan University; Joanne, a graduate of Michigan State; and Eleanor Mary, a sixth CTader. 
Bob, we will all be pitying that you will be well enough to whoop it up in June. 
PINKY SCHNEIDER who is at 40 Boivnc St., Flushing, N. V., wxites: "To celebrate TONY GONZALEZ* visit to New York a quick luncheon was arranged. The follouing attended: JOHN BARTLEY, JOHN SNAKARD, JIM MAHER, sunny Florida. Come dotvn and see us sometime." JERRY LYONS, 'BUGS* WALTHERS, MIKE ADRIAN. JOHN ROACH couldn't make it at the last minute. Sorry I can't make N.C. but I'll be out for the 30lh year reunion. Kindest regards, John." 
AL FELLNER says: "Hi—wish we could make the *warm-up* but too far away down here in sunny Florida. Come down and sec us some time.** Al's address is 17030 Gwlf Blvd., N. Reddington Beach, St. Petersburg 6, Fla. iW—you might be surprised how many *25ers will pop in to get a steak sandwich—c\-en your secretory might be tempted. 
REUBEN MOMSEN whom we saw at the Texas game says: "Wish it were possible, but the distance will^ not permit me to make this one.'* DAN O'NEIL who is in New York City, writes: "JOHN LYNCH, C.S.C., is now pastor of a new parish in Burbank, California." John can keep a "censor's" eye on HARRY McGUlRE's newspaper column in Santa Barbara as per HUGH CULLIN^VN's bit of news mentioned before. 
ICcVRL CONNELL writes from Lake Andes, South DakoUi: "Greetings, John and remember me to the 25crs. My wife and I are planning on being there in June." 
TOM CARFAGNO who was with us from '21 to '24 and is now at 450 W. Middle Street, Hanover, Pa., u-rites: "Sorry-I can't make It. Will be on campus this week though to say hello to Jim. Planning to be at Reunion in June." 
FRED UHL of 414 S. York, Dearborn, Michigan, was short and sweet with: "Hello Jack, Ho^v are you?" How about June, Freddie? 
STE\ ^ CORBOY couldn't make N.C. but we had a nice \Tsit with him at the Chicago "Regional Ltmcheon" at Carson's, Your Secretary is indited to LEO POWERS for getting "on the baU" the last minute and arranging a luncheon at Carson's. PAUL DOOLEY and your secretary were at the mid-season Furniture Show In Chicago October 20. I called Leo at seven in the evening and c**en though his bride of one year had the evening meal on the table and Leo had to get to a K. of C. meeting in an hour—^he still took time out to go over the Chicago list and called them the next A.^^. for a gathering that was most enjoyable. A lot of the Chicago boys hadn't seen each other since our 25th. A iew Hke JOHN "DOC" STOKE­LY we hadn't seen since 1925. "Doc" looks swdl —In fact he looks a lot healthier than he did on tlie campus in '25. He's In typographical service with Trade Prc» Typographera of Aflhraukee but his office is 35 £. Wacker Drive, Chicago. 
\VALT METZGER is fleet superintendent of hSs family's Bou-man Dairy Company ^vho supply all Chicago with that cow juice. Evany's fine and plans to be with us In June. Wally and Paid Dooley had a great time going over the good times v.-e all had out at Metzger's. Remember those wonderful Sunday Metzger dinners after those Northwestern games—and those charming sisters of \Vally*s? Tliose are the things you can all chin about when you come back June 10, II, 12. Don't miss this one because IT'S LATER THAN YOU TIHNK. By the way, STEVEN CORBOY Is presi­dent of I>'ano, Inc., and came up with an Idea that you will be getting a letter shortly. LEO POWERS is practicing law with his own firm. Powers & Boyd, at 79 ^Vest Monroe St., Chicago 3, and if you have any legal ^vork—well Leo's pretty bus>*, but be will always help a '25er out and be­sides he just got married a year ago—he still has to get going and raise a family like BILL CERNEY —Bill's baby sitting these daj-s for his grandchil­dren. EDDIE O'TOOLE was there—he tells me he fias a daughter at St. Marj-** and JOHN DROEGE of South Bend also has one there. She is a classmate of my daughter, Pat. 
VIRGIL P. F.AGAN is a big shot buyer for Scars and both Ed O'TooIe and Virgil were on deck at the N. C. warm-up. "Vlr" writes: *'John, the luncheon the other day ^vas wonderful! I hope >*ou come to town regularly in the future." 
GEORGE LAUGHLIN helped Leo call the Chi­cago boj-s. Everybody was showing evcr>T>ne else their family snaps. George has shown no partiality. He has a son in the navy, air corps and marines and they arc all commissioned officers—and hand­some lads, too! George was at the N. C. cocktail party. 
JOHN MORAN who. is' "Xfr. Continental CHI'* 
Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 23 
hearing from you but we all x^-ant you there, come June 10, II and 12. FRANK MCCARTH Y writes from Washington, 
D. C : ^'Please give my best regards to those present." We did tliat Frank but be there in June to do it in person. '/{ 
TOM GOSS in Chicago writes: "Sorry, John, but I have no ducats . . . would certainly like to be tvith you but here is hoping for June 1955." Tliat's great Tom, wc all want to see vou in June. 
JOHN MONAGHi\N of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, was sorr>' he couldn't make *'tlie warm-up" but don't forget ills when "the daisies" come out and . . . as BROTHER ZIPP used to say . . . Wc Com­merce men ought to say a few Hall Marys for Brother down In the Grotto—and he's certainly up there going over our "work sheets"-—let's ask him to help us come up with the correct answers come our final exam . . . the JUDGMENT. 
It's later than wc think fellows—a weekend at Notre Dame can do wonders for all of us. . . . PROF. PHILLIPS, McCUE, FATHER O'DON­NELL, FATHER ALBERTSON, as xvell as our classmates who have gone bctore us will be there in spirit .. . \-ou will sense this. Remember a \ June reunion Is nothing like a football weekend. There arc moments when you are there alone \rith Our Lady. 
^VASHINGTON, D. C—The Notre Daine-Na\-y game rally on October 29 was held at Enough of NOSTALGIA and back to the living— 
the Sheraton-Park Hotel. L. to R.: Val Deale, club president, Dr. Jim Corcoran, Coach JOHN' L. KILE Y of Kokomo, Indiana, couldn't 
make it but he irill be there in June. RiVY 
Terry Brennan, "Duke" Murphy and toastmaster "Dutch" Bergman. DeCOURSEY of Rochelle, Illinois, could come. . . . Both John and Ray were Brotlier Zipp's *'Sun Flowers." They got out of accounting in May. DR. L. A. BLUM is in Warren, Ohio. I'll have to look him up the next time I'm selling furni­ture In tliat town or NIIcs. I'm covering all Ohio out in Denver, writes: "Hope to sec you in Neil's daughter Just spent' last weekend with us now so I'll sec more of the bo>-s. June, '55." and she is a "honey." JOHN DROEGE of South K/\RL SCHAETTLE writes from LaCrosse, \Vis-DR. MINTOX HART2 uho i*-as with us from Bend has a daughter **Meg," Mar>* Margaret, In consin, that he could make cocktails but sec that '21 to '23 writes: "Sorry I can't make it. Hope to tlie same class. you contact JOHN ELLIOTT and ^VATSON and run into you at the Soutlicm Cal game." Doc—If bring all Wisconsin—even Senator McCarthy—some 
HERM.\N CENTLIVRE is still In Fort ^Vayne, says: "Saw Texas and Micliigan State-XD games. 
we miss at that game—don't miss June 10, 11 of the bo>-s will keep him talking Into the w-ee and 12. hours of June 10, 11 and 12. <
Haven't attended any X^o\*ember XD games In re­cent years, (^^ust be getting old, Herm) Will see 
BOB PIERCE of my oun Toledo writes: "Sorry LESTER J. \VOLF of 333 W. Park Blvd., Had-• John, that wc can't make it. See you and tlic you in June, I hope. (Xote: Hcrm made the cock­donfield, New Jersey, could make It. Get on tliat tail party at X. C. game. Looks fine and It was 
rest next June." Bob runs t!ic Pierce Equipment X'ew York Band 'Wagon of Bartlc>-s and Traynor in Toledo—for trucks and trailers. in June and you will be happy. 
wonderful meeting him and his chaiming daughter.) 
LEONARD M. HESS writes: "Texas is too far Saw EDDIE ASHE at Michigan State-XD game. ROY PAULI writes from Pontiac; hope he can a^^•ay for a cocktail party but June's my meat! make it in June. 
He picked up a new Olds in Lansing and was 
Think you are doing a fine job handling Class of driring it East on business and then back to JOHN SHEEHAN couldn't come and as Jim '25. If you ever get to San Antonio be sure to California." Armstrong has told you, he has bought another look us fup." Lcn—I sure will, but repeat tliat '25 HAROLD, no;v HAROW WATSON*, of Milwau­Studcbaker so you should come back in June to trip and bring Mrs. Hess along like >*ou did before look that car over. . . . After all Uncle Sam will 
kee, sent a fine note. '*Most certainly, John, I
—the bo\"s •will be as glad to see her as ^vell as pay your expenses (Income tax wise—with Studc­
would like to be witli you—but too often tlie 
yourself and those good looking daughters. 
baker in South Bend)—you made It possible for us ED HEIXT2 writes that he is too deep in the taken there is little left for personal purposes. My to get Jim's car "for wholesale" . . . the boys 
best plans fail to carry. Right now, my time Is so 
heart of Texas to get up but how about June, heart tvUl be with you on Xov. 13th." Senator, my won't forget lliat! 
my boy? 
boy, "you can't take It with you" so be there In GIL SCILVEFER who sells Fords u-as one of our Our class must have given a lot of boys an JuUL—and bring the heart along. It was good heavier contributors. 
incentive to become MD's and tliey arc beginning to pop all over tlic place. DR. JOE EV/\XS of 234 E. 55tli, Chicago, wiis with us *21 to *23, writes: "Tliis is the voice of an ex-*25cr ('21-*23) long lost. A month ago I accepted the professor­ship of neurological stu-gcrj' at the University of Chicago. Xow that I am nearer Xotrc Dame I 
SCHENECTADY—^Dcan Lawrence Baldinger was guest speaker on a club program. 
hope there will be opportunities to renew old ties." 
^Vell Joe, this is great news and the Chicago boj-s L. to R.: Raymond Zasada, secretary, John Elsbee, treasurer, Dean Baldinger, Dr. John 
will be happy to know you arc in town. B. Phillips, club president, Frank M. Linehan, past club president, and William G. Leonard, PAUL HOEFFLER who is still making widows 
vice-president. 
happy by selling husbands insurance writes: "I'd sure love to be there" and I know Paul will be around in June. 
GEORGE SCHWARZ writes from AVicluta, Kan­sas: "Just returned from Micliigan State game— sorry I did not know in lime." So are we, George, and we can guarantee you won't get soaked if you come back on the Campus tliose sunny June daj's of June 10, II, and 12. 
ANSE MILLER writes from Roanoke: "Sorry John—Remember me to the gang." 
GEORGE \^RGARA writes: "Saw TOXY GOX­ZALEZ (Philippines) on his way home from Europe with his charming wiic. Had a pleasant luncheon date with them in tlic U.N'. Building, ^vherc Mrs. Vergara is a consultant. The ladies hit it off in great shape. The Gonzalezs arc taking a motor trip to the coast. The first stop will be XD to see their freshman son. Best regards, John." 
BILL HURLEY writes: "Sorry not to be able to be ^rith you. We attended the Michigan State game. 'Will try to be on hand in June. Regards to the family." Bill, sec if you can get **brother" BOB HURLEY to come back and wc will have a "family" reunion. His address is 2206 Cambridge Ave., Fresno, Calif. I'll write him too. My daughter Patricia Is a freshman at St. AIar>''5 and she, like us, has two other Hurle>-s as classmates, NEIL HURLEY'S (class of '33) daughter "Hone>-" and another one, Carol Hurle>', from New Orleans. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus^ JanuaTy-February, 2955 
JOHN V. BIANCHI of 166 Garside, Neivark, Nc\v Jersey, couldn't come but I hope he gets in toucli witli the "Fifth Ave. Special" when it leaves Grand Central on the niglit of June 9, 1933. 
"PROF." DR. JOHN A. \VHrr.M,\N of King's 

VCoIlege, Wlkcs-Barre, Pa., used to roll me out of my bed tip in the Carroll Dorm in 1920 when JACK SGALLAN and I were *'prcps." Hope you can make it in June, John. Maybe you can talk JOHN HILLENBR/\ND of Batcsvillc, into coming back. You should have a real "Bull Session" u-itli the "lifers." "ROME" DUGAN, ST,\N McGlV-ERN and a lot of the old gang will be back. I'm appointing you, Hillenbrand, on a "Lifers Com­mittee" along witli Scallan, Dugan. We haven't got many more left boys so let's "live it up" as the kids say today. Stan McGIvern of Toledo told mc—coming out of ^^ass last Sunday at our local parish—that he would come back. Stan went to Wisconsin for his college work. FRED UHL, JOE FITZPATRICK (the Florida NaUonal Bank & Trust Co. of Miami), FRED McM,\NUS, LEO McTURN,\N, PAUL ROMWEBER, JOHN SHO­WEL, JIM E.MSHWILLER (Hartford City, Indi­
/ ana), TONY GONZ^VLEZ, CON HAGERTY, BILL 
< KRIDER, RUBE MOMSEN, PHIL O'DOXNELL, MIKE SULLIVAN, FRED RINK were all "preps" and if I missed any . . . and 1 know 1 have . . . let's hear from vou about this June reunion. 
S. E. "GENE"' SULLIVAN of 1707 Wellington Rd., Birmingham, Ala., writes: "Have been in the South almost two years mining ore. (Remember "Sulli" was a mining engineer.) A good number of ND graduates in the B'ham area." 
AL D,VSCHBACH, Tliompson Run Rd., R. D. 8, Box 245, Pittsburgh 9: "No news, John, but my warmest greetings. I am still an insurance broker in Pittsburgh, of course. Busy, well and happy. Al." 
H. V. "SPIKE" McVDAMS of New York, writes: "Saw HAZE ,VMBROSE at the Navy game last week. My daughter is a freshman at Trinity College in Washington." 

y NORB SKELLEY of Salina, Kansas: "Wish I could be tliere for a canape—will be there in June." 
RALPH HEGER says: "Saw Micliigan State game in the rain. Also BEN KESTING and son. Hope to sec you in June. Beer business still good. Re­gards." He was sorry he couldn't make the N. C. game. 
WALTER "BUTCH" HAECKER writes: "Plan­ning on the reunion. Wish I could make this one with cocktails. Glad you're planning on it. 'Hie'." 
"BUGS" WALTER, who is still giving Gotham its "hottest" dance music, sa>'s: "Wish I could be there. Sounds like a great idea. I hope to make it in June. Bugs." 
DR. F. L. FR,\N KE.\NEDY: "Wish I could make the warm-up. Will make the reunion for sure. Thirty years isn't so long." That from a doctor, boys. By the way, Fran, I have a daughter 

k ^foira who is a junior at Maryville College in St. Louis. I'll give you a call when Mrs. Hurley and I make the next Fatlier-Daughters get-together next February'. 
BILL BELL of Rochester, N. Y., writes: "Have been to ND tlirec times since June. Saw the Texas and Micliigan State games. Sorry, but I'll be with you next June. John, I called your home when in Toledo Sept. '53, but you were out of town." Sorry I missed you Bill; see you in June. 
ALFRED J. LODA of 8600 Garfield, Bcthesda 14, Mar>'land, has a son Peter who is a freshman at ND. 
DR. BILL MOLONY of 1930 Wiltshire BU-d., Los Angeles, writes: "Will try to be tliere in June '55." Hope you can make it. Doc 
WALT HALL writes: "My wife and I attended tlie Michigan Stale game—so anotlier trip is 'out* this year. We were guests of our old friend, A. J. 

, PORTA, of Soutli Bend. Best of luck." 
' TOM CO>L\N of Washington, D. C, says: "Wish I could make the warm-up. Tlic Lord will­ing, I'll be there in June." 
MYRON HOOD of Cincinnati, writes: "Fine idea. Sorry I can't come. Hope to sec you next June." 
Tliis colmitn is growing too too long so I won't list the boys who didn't give mc news but could not make the warm-up. 
Now, I'll try to gi\"c you info on those who were tliere. 
VIRGIL FAGi\N was at tlie luncheon at Car-sons along with STE\'E CORBOY, GEORGE LAUGHLIN, LEO POWERS, PAUL DOOLEY (Toledo), "DOC" STOKELY, ED OTOOLE, WALLY METZGER. 
We discussed big plans for June and I hope to 

y. meet with the "lads" in Cleveland and Detroit 
OSCAR JOHN DORWIN, '17 
Pilot, orator, corporation law7er par excellence—that is Oscar J. Dorwin, former Notre Dame atlilete and now the cliief legal counsel for the world­wide Texas Company. 
As vice president and general coun­sel for Texaco, Mr. Dorwin, a resident of Stamford, Conn., heads a staff of nearly 60 attorneys and hundreds of outside law7ers who handle the giant oil company's legal affairs. He is hon­ored in the ]l^ho's Who in America for 1954-55 (Vol.28). 

A 1917 graduate of the University of Notre Dame and Harvard's law school (1920), he received much court­room e.\perience with three Chicago law firms before his affiliation in Jan­uar>', 1926, with the Indian Refining Co., Lawrenceville, 111., which opened up for him a new field of law—cor­porate general practice. 
A member of Notre Dame's first freshman grid squad and a varsity hurler for the Irish baseball team, Mr. Dorwin was oratorical contest cham­pion of his junior class and represented the University of Notre Dame at the Indiana State Intercollegiate Orator­ical contest in his senior year. 
\Vith ^Vorld ^Va^ I raging, he en­tered the U. S. Navy in July, 1918, attended flying school at the naval aviation base at Key ^Vest, and was flying solo when the conflict ended. 
A native of Minocqua, Wis., he married Olive McKay of Chippewa Falls, Wis., in St. Paul, Minn., on Feb. 5, 1927. 
before February in order to "jell" all the ideas. From the meetings so far we have a "super idea" which will make the class of 1925 "the bestesC** and you will be hearing more about thu later. 
AL PORTA w ^ at Morris Inn. JIM ARM­STRONG writes that "ARMANDO J. PORTA, Studebakcr-Packard Corporation executive, has been doing an outstanding job as chairman of the South Bend United Fund drive for 1954. The goal was o\-er 5900,000." Congratulations, Al—we of the class of 1925 are proud of you. 
FRED WATSON of Munde. writes: "Trying to get that other old bachelor AL HEEB to make the trip with me!" At least we have uncovered a couple of bachelors in the class of '25. Be there in June bo>-s—yoQ may get hooked with "Sadie Hawkins Day" if you stay home. LEO POWERS %vas the latest to join the ranks of the benedicts. , . . He*s been a married man for a whole year. JOHN W. COURTNEY, wee president of our Alumni Associa­tion, was at the Inn as was DON MILLER, our president. GIL SCHAEFFER of Detroit called me the night before the affair to tell me how sorry he was that he couldn't make it. Labor problems popped the last minute. Saw BILL CERNEY at Texxis and Southern Cal games and he \vrites that CHUCK COLLINS* ->-oungcst son is a bright star in grade school athletics. Saw- Chuck at the Soudi­ern Cal game and he looks great. He and BILL CERNEY are lining up the monogram men of the class, MAURICE BOLAND and RAY TILLMAN were at the cocktail part>' which was really a hi^e success. In fact, ED CUDDEHEY and BOB GOR­DON as well as others—think we should pick the best game each fall and have a gathering at the Inn cacli year after our 30th. It's a great idea because so many went to the Michigan State game and couldn't make the North Carolina game. 
GEORGE LAUGHLIN had a high school re­union with a guest of mine FATHER NED MAT­TIMORE of Bryan, Ohio. Ned and George went to Campion High School at the same time. DR. CALDWELL of Cleveland was there as was JOHN DROEGE, ED OTOOLE and JOHN KELLY. I may have missed some and JIM ARMSTRONG can fill in the ones I missed mentioning. The fel­lows had their wives, sons and daughters as well as friends with them. CLARENCE HARDING of the South Bend Tribune has volunteered to head a com­mittee to "dig out" all the hoy% who missed our 25th and write to them to be there in June. EVARD KOLE and his charming wife were there from Cleveland and he's going to see that we have pearl handled canes for our 30th. EDDIE LUTHER said he would be there—I mav have missed him. PAUL ROMWEBER said he would be on deck but wasn't and to save three-cent stamp he said on his card "Tell STEVE CORBOY I was to meet him in New York at the Gotham Hotel and that Connie (my wife) and I were there, Paul"—Rommie that message cost the ALUMNUS dough—so buy ARMSTRONG and CACKLEY a drink the next time yt« sec them—WHICH MUST BE JUNE. (Personal to Paul—^"Can hardly wait 'til June."— Armstrong and Cacklcy). 
H^VNK ^VURZER was at the Southern Cal game but I missed him. 'NVe came over on the Tdedo Special for that one. Hank and I have been talk­ing long distance from all o%'er the country—^just like five years ago. "D.\D" TRAYNOR also wrote that he couldn't make N. C. but would be willing' to help put over a bigger and better 30th, as he did our 25th. 
JUDGE L/UVRENCE CASEY of BaUWa was at the Southern Cal game—and he's still the same Larry. I'm sure he will liven up that Fifth Ave. Special when it stops at Bata\ia to pick him up in June. 
NORB SKELLEY wrote from Salina, Kansas, and said he would be on deck in June. He enclosed a beautiful snap of his family in colors. Norfa, sorry it was in color—we could have used it in the ALUMNUS. Norb also enclosed a note from LAURENCE "MOON" MULLINS who is not a '25cr—that his ne^v address is 805 Poyntz A\-e., Manhattan, Kansas. "Moon" incidentally, is Di­rector of Athletics of Kansas State College. 
WILFORD V. yVXLZ has been re-elected for the Illh successive year as president of the South Bead Local 278, American Federation of Musicians. 
Boys, I'm getting writer's cramps and I lo\*e it— I've written 35 pages long hand—that's another '25 record if it's printed. 
192A John J. Ryan 
I7AV 2434 Grecnlcaf Avenue 
Chicago 43, Illinois 

ED CRO\VE recently received a citation in rec­ognition of his service as executive secretary of 
Notre Dame Atumnut, January-Febntaryf 195S 25 
CYO, Dttroit, by the VFW auxiliar>-. He has been cxcctilivc secretary' tlicrc since 1935. 
I Q07 Steve Ronay I7A# 2829 Applctrce Lane South Bend, Indiana 
EDWARD F. BRODERICK has been named a Knight of St. Gregorj-by Pope Pius XII. His Ex­cellency Bishop McXuIty conferred the pontifical honor in ceremonies at the Cathedral of Su John the Baptist, Paterson, N. J., on Nov. 7. 
CHARLES A. O'NEILL, executive secretary of the Particular Council, St. Vincent dc Paul Society, Milwaukee, \\'is., w-as the. principal speaker at the quarterly meeting of tlie Fort ^\*a>•ne Deanery Particular Council, December 12. 
I QOQ Louis F. Buckley I 7A O J253 North Central Avenue Chicai^o 51, Illinois 
BERT KORZEX was elected clerk of Cook County's Probate Court. Bert, who is an attomc\' in the same office with BILL KEARNEY and DICK PHELAN in Chicago, is known as a spe­cialist in escrow and property condemnation. He is also an authority on election law, and retired as chief attorney for the election board to run for Clerk of the Probate Court. Bert, a Democrat, wll handle more tlian 12,000 cases yearly and will appoint assistant probate judges and a large number of other employees. Congratulations, Bert, on your election as Clerk of "Tlic World's Busiest Probate Court." Please adWsc me of otlier '28 men who liave been elected to public office. 
My request for birth announcements brought a response from a few classmates. DR. BERNIE CRO>\XEY of Wichita, Kansas, became the father of a boy on September 29, his first cliild after 20 yeare of marriage. DR. FR/VNK HAGERTVs first son arrived on June 9, after ha\'ing four daughters ranging in age from 3 to 18. Congrat­ulations, Bemie and Frank. I hope to hear good nc%s's of ttiis nature from other classmates. 
Many letters of appreciation were received witli respect to tlie "In ^^cmoriam*' card sent to you in September. Fatlier JIM McSHANE wrote that he keeps the list of deceased classmates with liim on tlie altar as he says daily Mass. Tlic only omission noted \%"as that of FRi\NK D. SLO/\N which was called to my attention by ED HAGER­TY. Although Frank Sloan received his degree in 1929, he began his college da>*s with us and was a roommate of GEORGE COVERT. Frank u-as drowned June 3, 1953, while trout Bsbing in ^fichigan. He was a practicing C.P.A. in Pontiac, Michigan, at tlie time of his death. Frank ^^'as sunived by lib wife. I have added Frank's name to our *'In Mcmoriam" ciard. 
BILL KIR^VAN saw GUS JENKINS of Buffalo and JOHN C.\RLIN of Mentor, Kansas, at Notre Dame in September. Eacli was re^stering his son at Notre Dame. 
JOE L.\NGTON reports that BILL MURPHY visited his office in Peoria. Joe, as you know, is uith Cummin^ & Emerson, distributors of auto­mobile parts. He has one daughter at tlie Acad­emy of Our Lady in Peoria and one at St. Joseph Institute for the Deaf in St. Louis, Missouri. I understand that Joe has been a member of tlic Board of Directors of that Institute for some time. 
BERNIE GARBER telU me that JACK LA­VELLE gave a marvelous talk that every alumnus should hear at tlie New York Notre Dame Club meeting in September. He mentioned tliat BOB HAMILTON was also present at tlie meeting. 

We spent a very pleasant evening with GORDON BENNETT at FRANK CREADON's home the Weekend of the Michigan State game. Gordon and Frank ^vere off-campus roommates at Notre Dame. Gordon, who is secretary of the Buffalo Courier-Express, has four sons, ages 6 to 20. One son is at Notre Dame and another at Niagara University. Gordon enjoyed Frank's sliowlng of the reunion film. Frank tells me that BOB WINTER has been transferred from Omalia to Clu­cago with Armour & Co. Bob has three cliildren. I saw GEORGE CO\TRT, MIKE HOGAN, JERRY DeCLERCQ and JOE GRIFFIN at Uie Purdue game. FRANK CREADON also attended that game on his return trip from Toledo where he had attended a meeting of the American Mos­quito Control Association. VINCE AVALSH re­ports that he saw the follo^ving at the Michigan State game: BILL KIRWAN, AVH^LIAM H. MUR­PHY. JIM ALLAN. JIM CONMEY. JERRY De­CLERCQ, and JOE MORRISSEY. I \-isited Vince 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
recently in Monticello when I spoke at Illinois 
University. BOB KIRBY tells mc that he sau-
JOHN IGOE at tlie Texas game. 
JOE BREIG has ^mttcn another book entitled 
"Under My Hat." I also noticed an article by 
FATHER M.\RK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., on 
"T.V.A. in Trouble" in tlie October 23, 1951 issue 
of America and an article entitled "Labor and 
^^anagcmcnt Go Back to School" in tlie October 
1954 issue of Grail. I had an article on *'The Ob­
jective use of Facts'* in the July, 1954, issue of tlie 
EmpIo\-mcnt Security Revie^v. It was based on a 
talk I gave last year at the Employment Security 
Institute at Notre Dame. I spoke on **Fraud Con­
trol in Unemplo>'ment Insurance" at a similar in­
stitute at Indiana University in October. 
Father JIM McSHANE, S.J., is Chairman of the 
Ma>-or's Labor Management Commission in Denver. 
A number of other classmates do arijitration work, 
including CHARLEY SHORT of Philadelphia, 
FATHER MARK FITZGER/VLD, C.S.C., of Notre 
Dame and LEO WALSH of Grand Rapids. JOHN 
FREDERICK of Muskegon ser\'ed as Commissioner 
of the Micliigan Labor Mediation Board from 1941 
to 1947. J. HAR\'EY DALY, Public RelaU'ons Di­
rector for Giant Food Department Stores in Wash­
ington, D. C, is President of the Washington Per­
sonnel ^Vssodation. Harvey also teaches a course 
in Supcr\ision in Industry at the American Uni­
versity'. 
CARL PETTERSCH, who received his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1953 and is now assotnate pro­fessor of American history and government at Dan­bury State Teachers College in Danburv, Connecti­cut, tells mc that VIC ZIMMERMAN is wnth Gordon D. Murphy, Inc., 271 Church Street, New-York City. Vic was married in 1949 and is tlie fatlier of a two-year-old boy. 
BILL KONOP is now located in New York City where he is tax attomcj' in the central area for American Telephone and Telegraph Co. Bill lias four cJitldrcn ranging in age from 10 to 18. His oldest son is at tlie University of Miami. 
PHIL PITON, like a number of other '28 men, lias moved to Columbus, Ohio, where he is llie As­sistant to the President, Administrative Office of Minor League Baseball, National .-Vssodation of Profiissional Baseball Leagues. Phil has a daughter, age 8. Two otlier classmates from Ohio about whom we have not had news in some time are HUDSON JEFFERYS and PIERCE O'CONNOR. 
ST. PETERSBURG-TAMPA—Club members 
Hudson, who practices law in fronton, has one daughter at the University of Cindnnati and an­other at Georgetown Visitation, Washington, D. G. Pierce, who practices law in Cleveland, was mar­ried in 1951. He has served as President of the Cleveland Notre Dame Club and on a number rtf committees of the Cleveland Bar Association, ii>­eluding the Chairmanship of the Professional Ethics Committee. 
GEORGE COURY reports that his college room­mate, OSIvt\R RUST, who is now a grandfather, has two boys at Notre Dame and one daughter a nun. George also ad\-ised tlial JOHN P. MUR­PHY, who is in the hardware business in Fort Smith, Arkansas, has one daughter. You probably noticed John's picture in tlic Nov.-Dec ALUM­NUS-He is the new President of tlic Fort Smith Notre Dame Club. Other '28 men serving as President of local ND clubs include JOHN ROBIN­SON (Connecticut Vallev), JOHN CARLIN (Sa­lina), JOHN R. MURPHY (Columbus), AL SCHNURR, JR. (Sandusky) and LEO .\fcINTYRE (Eastern Pcnn.) 
A\Tien the excellent business and professional di­rectory was prepared by NORB SEIDENSTICKERy for our twenty-fifth reunion, it was possible to in-• elude only tlic primary occupations of the class­mates. Since tlicre is considerable interest in sec­ondary business occupations, I am giving you a report of the data I have been able to obtain on this subject. Farming is by far tlie most popular secondary interest. The following have this par­ticular avocation: JIM ALLj\N, GEORGE BE^VM­ER, BILL BROWN, Jx\CK avNIZ/VRO (cattle), AUGIE GR/VMS, JIM CULLEN (dairj), GUS JENKINS, BILL KIRW^VN, HA^XS MURPHY, RICHARD SCHIDLER, AL SCHVURR (truck garden), GEORGE SCHEUER and BOB EVANS (plantation). 

A number of classmates have interests as officers and directors of business organizations in other than their regular empIo>-ment. JOHN VC. CAV­JVNAUGH, who is a partner in the legal firm of , McDermott, AVill & Emery in Chicago, is a direc-( tor in the follou'ing companies: South Bend Lathe " Works, Mars, Inc., Kablc Printing Co., Peter Fox, Inc., Gardiner Metals, and Ottawa Silica Co. LARRY AHNGERTER, President of the San An­tonio Transit Co., holds the folIo;\-ing offices in Texas corporations: President, Red Arrow Freight Lines, Inc., President, Studcrs, Inc. (camera stores) 
have made plans to attend the Irish-Miami 
game next October on a special excursion trip. Discussing the proposal are: (L. to R.) Roy Decb, St. Petersburg, chairman of the group; Gene Biittncr, vice-president of the club from Tampa; and Michael 0*Brien, president, also of Tampa. 
and Vice p-rjuR^v-thfur^^brort^e 
Co. GEORGE COURY, "•''•. V American Slock New York Stock Exel.anse and th' '\ j_,„„„.; Exchange, ser%es as » .?'"'^'°r "^.n, Co., Miami; Eicor, In-, f'"-??:= ^iordartn k of Miami 
^Commonwealth Oil, L.o"i"> Q^^ ^ ^lass. and Goodland R«»'. ^"'°'i„eM e the following: 
mates ser^•i^g as d.recto" nc'" j^ j. _ R,\LPH GARZ<\, a farm "»" " '^^, g. A., and „ctor in Banco ^J^^'^^-^^a de S-mla , S. A.; Financers Industrial > Agn™'" „„„,„ Depart-JOE HILGER, owner of «he White .__ ^,,^ ment Store in Columbus, Ind^anaj^^^^^,^ i„^rance. American Security Co., "'J". , ^ Director of general agent in Springfie'd. Mas^-^ "'KENNE.VRY, ^,e Frazer SpringrfW. ^""^Ohio S ji„„ „ „f an attorney in Colnmb^; Oh'Oy ^,_^^^BE. Sec 
Julian & Kokinge SI ">e Co^ " ^^ „, X. Y., ind \ace President "f Guanm^ 1 ^ ^^ Co.; is director of the J.e" J"^^' ;„ Muskegon, JOHN FREDERICK, lu, atto^^J " j^,^^,,;„, ^ iliclugan, i\^«cto r for^he M.d^_^^^^ .^ p^„ Mfg. Co. ART -^'"-'-'='';' .-.crican Acceptance . ;i'-"^Vwa™"°FR:ya's'?sTESE) SCHROE­

^ SER:'raJd!s:'to p-^™i„rof-"he°sa"« 
Lakei, Minn., is Secrjl^-J-.J'^^'^ ^ PE^^-CH-
Engineering Ii«V"'7' '"ee'r for "orlh and North-

FIELD, General Manager lor - ^^ _ .^ west Brazil for the S>"Ser Saving -__ ^„„p^ director for Orange Cnish and ^^^^ ^ ,. Industrial Coverall Vh'':" • uj^etor and Sec­
,„„ey 7,];f«;:S-a1r« Corpo«.ion and the ictary of the -^»''°"r' ,a„ce Corporation and a National Homes A«;P'='s"";„„ Bank, trustee in the Lafayette Savmgs « .^ 
The following classmate ^^ "^iadons; JI-M 

l«:3l banks or bn^ding andjoan^ p^ CULLEX Star Bldg.S. Lorn. ' ^^^^^ j,^„^ , JOHN .^EIT^ENGER.^Count^^.^^ ^^ 
Clearfield, Pa.) FlWrjl-ts^ ^|.^ . ^^^^„,^. 
tional Bank), AR>OLD ^in^ ^ ^ |__^ j^ vice-presi­
. ^«"o?";'b»-^ in Mo«=-l.o, I..in^is_^.^ ^..^„„ 

! Tliere are a '"'f""J^^"us. ED DUFFY, occupalions engaged '^%^^{.„^ Stock Exchange, who is a member ol <"" ' ^ p Xew Mexico, al­and BILLY WOOD, a Santa te, ^ QRVILLE tomey, are each !';'"«'t,'"intose of lands and 
MURCH, P-^;--f^X 'LXof the Alpena sccretan- of ""= ""^V" .„,„„,„ a in resort prop-Midiigan Po»=C,„Cp°f^pS,cK ar='"''^"'='' '" ^^'^' erties. JOHN ™ f,^,^^ ^ of""he Peace, City of kegon, Michigan, «•[•'"'",-,£ COXLEY, an at-XoTth .Mi^kegon. ^^^^I^^^^ as Fulton City torne,- !» P"^""'p^VOTE, who is President and Judge. yiNCE Pt.NUi ^ J Trendier Co., 
General Manager of the {^'"^ Cleveland Motors, is also President of ""= J?^^'EORGE SARGUS, Inc., a foreign --;„Sen<^-„. ^^d s and Shoe Co. who operates the T^S"^;" is also a direclor of a in Wheeling, West Virginia, « » of a laun­
( A dress and skirt f-"^^' »RW,Sr«"." o --" 
'• derette there. BILl. Jvi City, Io«-a, operates a furniture "orei n ^^^^ ^,„j„ a so has a mail order ''•«ine« "'"^ ^ j „_, cit>-. ?he name of the Gerard Company m ^^^^^.^ 
""•Hrc'v^'HOTSoT JEFFERIES and DICK 
DONOV,UN, HUDSON J t ^_^^^_ 

--^„^Sify^;s--r^2 
iiffUl'''IMV'I^^^^'"'^^^''^^^^^! ..... .J visitors this fall. L. to R.: :;::„, Gonzalez, '25, and his wife, of ^^^aJ>.I., -^ ^ _ ^„, j,„. ^_.„„ „ 2o, 
Tony, Mrs. Gonzalez, Tony, Jr., ^^^^^^. ^^^^^,^^.. 
Foundation. "=j-^ f f^n^'lj^t'^ a" ^ 
;-h:rTt?:"nle"a"d a daughter, a senior 
-G&^E&Hl^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

ture writing and editing . ^^ Q ^ge 
Tribune, has 'o.'"- b° .» |^^/,,„rk in South Bend is very active '?. "^/^",he religions award for and was the onginalor of '"^ "„*• jj also a free Cub Scouts (St. George ^<^^a^-H-= ,-,,„ , ,,„^d lance writer for av ation ma ^ ^^,^^^^ j^ 
as ^'!"--Pi;"'i'f u-»GNER who «-» "• 5*"'-°" 
lion. GEORGE ^^AGNfcK, superxis­poT California, is a f^Pf"^ " Treasure Island. U inspee.or of "»--' "j^^^'j Yn 1931. GEORGE 
California. George VZt„^,^' „ assistant with the 
CRONGEYER IS adm.nis.n..^*e ^^ ^__^ .^ .^„. 
Metropolitan Life '"'"""''5 . .^ rccei«d an Vork City. Ce-^'^coiia J^SerJity this Vear. 
M.A. degree from Colimibu. _^^^g„ ,„ 
PHIL BERTHE.\U.Mfc « J ^ ^ife Company. Portland, Oregon for the Baidjers ^^^^^^^ city He has one daughter age 13^ r___j^^.^„ 
Chairman for the N^'g a fdh"' ^t. Kisco towns-
FR.\NK DUQUETTE a feuo^^ GARBER, is a man and "mmu.er wuh BEB. ^^^.^^ „Hd. Gen-district meter and instrument p ^^ ^^s e;;i Electric Co. in Ne - ^ork C... ^^___ yg j one son. 13 years f f\^'i^ a member of the feSVa^'^rBell'^Telephone Laboratories 
"VrRCrFARRELL. a Pedia.ri.an ^a^^ ^ PATHFR GEORGE BENAGLLV. C.S.C.. Is Vice-
FATHfcK unvJiv"--. p ., and professor o[ President of Stonehill Collegj^a p^ ^^ Classical Languages. Father Ocorg^ ^^^ 
of the Seminary of Our Lady of Ho J ^ 
p^^'^SSirTi^^f-^hrK;? 

Z^arrc^L^mitf' foP^^^'^r S ^t^-^S. "Si w^ys. Bob has three daughters. ase B ^ p_^ ^ had JACK I-),)EI.LE give a talk^^pj^gy^ ,^.^„ .Management Club. Dr. UA. ^ ^ 
practices "-jdicine in A™^>-™%^ts of age. Dan has tlircc daughters, . to '--j . sEITER who hears from his '"<'««='•"•« store in Lexington, "r ""d S?LtlROW?^ wttGeneral Attor-Mo., and BILL BKU"' ch Idren tang­ney .of '^'-.^'f To ;o 2 WTiMe doing some re­%^ oT.Mr; , of unem lo^rnen^ i^^urance Sic":VB';il^n"rM^""36. Notre Dame 
lawyer. , . -. -, «'orks manacer for 
f;s: EdrcUryi^^ed.^^^^^^^^^^^ 

:^!^ng'a^ut'S"MS^r^-"EY"who is w.th Sears 
in Chicago. ,he Kelt's in I haven't given >ou a rep ^_j ^ ^ some time. B'LJ-. *^ELL\ « m^ |^_^,^ ^j„. child. He Is a high school t^?^« „f Educa­cation with 1-=^;='' ^°Aol» ' A. MURPHY of 
Ji.ided lo^^t^s at the W ^ ^ ^ „„,„„..,. 
S-O-B^SclRSY-SL^a-naea ^.e [o... fame. ^^^^ 
Our class Viee-P^-d'" . »!,^g''^";; ,__„j ^, did such a sr^t.JobjS 'Sales fnd MeCormick, 23-ycar reunion, is "-"n ^ , . y„ k City. ;ublic relations counsehng m N o . ^^ , , Sill has five "^".Idren ™.g.nS^^ %^„„ „ „ Naval 
His oldest boy, who "^ S™^,, He gels together 
t Academy in June, «^« ^-^^oHN E. (BENNY) ^casionally ;vith "« -•> TIMLIN recently. FR,\NKLIN . He also saw J"f^ ,a,lve business. 
J ^ is in the radio;;.cl«-n -P K RE^'NOLDS ;, 
at-C-Si^gr-llsrhe is married and has a 
'-^iher ^.ARK F^GEIUVLD C.S.C..^ whoj. ^ 
Tlianksgiving dinner '"*"'; ^''.^ ,^^ an aw;ard 
DONOVAN P""^'/^„"„tr who writes the _b«t 
to tlie Notre Dame senior noticed 
^^o n Uie s-yect °f ^^g^^^cTtSn of the Amer­
Frank's biography.n the 130+^ president and burg, W. Va., has two so^.^g«^'^ _^^^i „g;„„r FISHER of Bnghtw^ters, .>. y ^^^,^, artenlJ will, the State of New "ior"^ ' f^„„ d„ties with 
hi W designs -d P;^X ^l^e died in WM-
U,e consulting engineer. n<3 ,_^^ , 
Vic has two -ns as« 6 and 9.^He^ J.J^,,.^^. 
hear from 1-K-»J'^ " ' 

^isr^rt^r^^^-s-^^fj! 
clerk with the Amen^n Caj CO. a  ^^^ ^^ ^„^  
Jim  lives at Palisades  iarK,  
son,  13 years of age.  j^ ;t|j  

^'UVRENCE ttVVEN% »l.o « 2«^-f^-,,.^;gan. U,e Melaltct Corporauon m KOI 
VINCENT HENRY «J/»ttor ComP-V i" Manager of ..the Fox ^;;;,,^"'^ ,„„ 17 years of Waukesha. W«eonsm.^ V^njjj.jj^ Ceneral Manager Ti e ^^ioTasebal. Club. ,„ 
^^/'SSSmS^iSEti^ 
5°Sb."v^.toTrforGr^-„^f\fT'?SI 
Seeger Refrig^tor Co.^ b^sjn ^^^^^^ 9 ,o 17. A rnend f"". f^^Knights of Columbus, Bob has been =^t.vc m t^KniS" ^^ j,^ ­
^;::fy.'=H^hr4jrpres.ent. ^^ 
i.^rthrDoi^itl!-"*'-^ ^-^" 
ican Catholic ^^b"/,/ , K" don Engineering Cor­S^neral *<>"? r °L f %M ^ Frank is also  I wish to c-ctend ^ e »-^9^hy ^ ^.^__^^ ^.^_ DICK PHELAN on the d«. ^ o. ^^ ,^„ ^ ,„„ .  "^.^V/^tri S  ^^randTu^^SS' S  
>. porauon !" ^'•"'"=S^_i^ ifjtuskegon and the director «{ Mercy "osp.^'^ ^ School and js Muskegon Catholic Ce ^ ns^__^^j Charntabk  secretary-treasurer of the  who is an attorneyages 10. 15 and 17.  m Chieag  X„,r,  IXime ^/u-« .  7»-0^f'i'"'^ . "''  -'  

Co., jobbers of special purpose foods, in Cliicago. 
BUI has two sons, ages 13 and 17. 
Our Class President, FRANK CREADON, at­tended the lou-a game. He met GEORGE Mc-LINEY, who is \-icc-presidcnt of George K. Baum & Co., investments, in Kansas City. George has four cliildrcn. Frank also saw JIM CON.MEY who had come all tlic way from Rochester, N. Y., for the game. BILL MURPHY reports that he saw SW'EDE SCHROEDER, HOWIE PHALIN and ED McSW*EENEY at the Micliigan State game. ED RAFTER saw JOE MADDEN of Fort Wayne at the Texas game. 
1929 Donald J. Plunkett 
Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
STEPHEN E. McPARTUN, JR., has been ap­pointed general sales manager of Ideal ^Ictal Prod­ucts, Inc., Detroit. Steve will head the sales agcnc>' of the company's new Paramount Home AVorkshop from sales offices at 69 West Wash­ington, Chicago 2. III. 

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. DONEL.\.\, JR., have announced the marriage of their son LT­WILLIAM J. DONEL.\N, III, USAF, '52, to Miss Betty May Sampson and the marriage of their daughter Marion to Lt. James ^1 . Gchrke. 
t3 yEARK-EUNION JUNE 10-II-I1 
IQ^fl Dcvcre Plunkett I y^ w o'Shaushnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
A gold lapel pin signifying 20 years of continuous 

scrvnce with tlic Allstate Insurance Company has 
been presented to JOHN T. MORAN, Resident 
Manager of the Harrison Regional Office- He 
resides with his wife and three cliildren at 6 Myrtlc­
dale Road, Scarsdale Ridge, New York. 
.\I1 class members should have in their hands by 

now a complete class roster. If ^-ou have not re­
ceived one, let me know. And %vhcn you write, 
include some news about yourself on other class­
mates. Also you may have some correction that 
should be noted in the roster; if so, drop mc s. 
line and include (you know what!}. 
One carlv response to the class roster mailing came from CHARLEY MORRISON of Miami, Florida, He wanted a 1929 roster from Don's old file, and also gave us some Ideas for the reunion in June. Charley would like to have a big board placed conspicuously near our hall showing tlie names of all attending the reunion, and their room location. He said he was at the 1950 affair and missed several fellows he learned later were pres­ent. Will do, Charlie. He also suggested a large display of snapshots, recent and old, of classmates. Send them on. They will be displayed on an old billboard taken from the original Palais Royale (courtesy of John Golden). 
Wc expected a lot of suggestions to roll in about tJie reunion after the last ALUMNUS and Class roster were mailed, but the returns arc slow in coming in. Must be giving it a lot of thought. Tliis will be the big one, the Silver Aimlversar)*, and no one is treating it lightly. If the whole class sliows up, Lyons Hall won't be big enough. The overflow will have to go into Cadillac Hall or the old fire house. 
Elsewhere in this issue will be a story on the 25th. Anniversary' of the Stadium and the members of tlie 1929 and 1930 teams who came back for the celebration. It was a good show, and most of tliose fellows looked like they could suit up right away (if you were not too fussy about what kind of sport was to be played). This fall has been quite a memorial season for the 1929-30 outfit, what ^»•ith FRANK a\RIDEO receixing tlie big Hall of Fame award here at the Purdue game. Of course TERRY BRENNAN and his bundi had something to do witli affairs in the stadium this fall, too. But while they were taking a siesta in the dressing room, the field was graced by such performere as JOHN LAW, BUCKY O'CONNOR, JOE SAVOLDI, TOM CONLEY, MIKE KOKEN, FRANK LEAHY, BERT METZGER, TOM KAS­SIS, JACK ELDER, NORDY HOFFMAN, 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February^ 1955 
MAURICE J. COONEY, '02 
A singular honor for 50 years of 

devoted ser\^ice to his parish has been 
paid to Maurice J. Cooney of St. Ita's, 
ChicagOj a 1902 graduate of the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame. 
AVell knowTi throughout the entire graphic arts world of Chicago, Mr. Cooney on Oct. 10, 1954, was feted by St. Ita's Holy Name Societ)' in recog­nition of his golden j'ubilce as chief : usher at the parish and simultaneously received a scroll symbolic of this honor from the pastor, the Rt. Rev. Mon­signor Gerard C. Picard. He also re­ceived a wrist watch from Msgr. Picard 
at a special dinner. 
"No man could be more respected 

by the entire congregation than Mr. 
Cooney," noted Holy Name Societ}' 
President James E. Sanford, also a 
Notre Dame alumnus ('15). "In the 
early days of St. Ita's he not only was 
head usher but directed about ever}' 
other parish activity." Mr. Cooney be­
came chief usher in the parish at the 
turn of the century when the congre­
gation numbered less dian 50 families. 
It now has more than 1,500. 
He and his wife have two children, 

Maurice, Jr., and John, also an usher 

at St. Ita's. The Cooneys have four 
grandchildren. 
CHUCK JASK\\'HICH and CLARENCE K02AK 
(of the Lyons Hall Interhall Champions of 1929). 
A letter from DICK BLOOM recently assured us 

tliac he will be on hand for the June reunion. 
Dick's oldest boy was graduated from Notre Dame in 
1953; is now in the Army at Fort Dix. His other 
son, Ronald, is expected to enroll here in 1953. 
Many of you m the East are already accjuaintcd 

with ART DENNEHY^s work in the Career Plan­
ning Clinic It has received a lot of favorable 
publicity through Sign magazine and otlicr outlets. 
Art can be contacted at 15 East lOth St., New-
York, or at the Carroll Club, 120 Madison Ave., 
•
 New York, where the Career Planning Clinic has been holding its weekly meetings. This is a won­derful counseling ser\'icc offered to -j-oung pcopli and all concerned with Its direction should be supported in evcr\' u-ay, 

E.
 RICHARD WALTER comes into South Bend occasionally to call on Bcndix. He stays at the Morris Inn, pops out of bed when he hears those 8 o'clock class bells, grabs a notebook and starts across campus. Tlicn he remembers he is mid­


. western sales representative for the National Ra­
diator Co. Dick has four cliildren, ranging from 
2i4 years to thirteen. 
HAROLD SIMPSON, manufacturer of livestock feed, would like to hear from JIM ROURKE,. JOHNNY MOR/\N and PETE a\STERLINE. Harold and his five children live at 308 Linden Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois. JOHN ELDRIDGE, part owner of Hllex Company, manufacturing bleaches. Is residing in Denver, after a short busi­ness venture In Dallas. John's 11 children range in age from 20 down to 6. How about bringing \ the whole gang out to Indiana for a June vaca­tion, and you attend the reunion? Will rcser\*c a room for you In Lyons Hall. 
J. E. DREIER of Yonkers Is Division Manager of Chrysler Corp. John has two sons who may be on their way to Notre Dame In a few years. He would like to hear from TOM DONOVAN, JIAf DILLY and FIL\NK KERJES. Address is 2 Sher­wood Terrace, Yonkers. Or be here for the reunion and make the contacts personally. 
JIM WALSH Is an attorney for a large life in­

surance company in Dallas. He belongs to that 
select class (Toomcy, Goldcn, how many others?) 
of baclielors. Jim must have had a good w*cekcnd 
just past in Dallas: the SMU game in the Cotton 
Bowl. He is quite busy with ci\'ic and church 
affairs in that community, and also the Alumni 
Club of Dallas. Jim sees PETE WACHS quite 
often, since he moved to Dallas a few years ago. •{ 
PAUL KLEISER wants to stir up a little excite­

ment among 1930 uvil engineers, and get them to 
the 1955 reunion for a private shindig. His boy 
Joseph is a student at Notre Dame this year. Paul 
has a career of \-arIcty and travel: first three years 
with pri\'atc firm as designer In South Bend and 
Kansas City, next eight years as assistant chief 
engineer of the State Board of Health, in Indiana; 
tlien six years In design, construction and operation 
of utilities for Army in Tennessee, Kentucky and 
Missouri at war installations, tlic last seven years 
in his own consulting practice. Only place left to 
call on is Lyons Hall in June. 1953. 
FRiVNCIS J. ARMBRUSTER is a practicing 

physlclan-surgcon In Chicago Heights, Illinois. Does 
considerable fishing and big game hunting; might 
get a campus license and see what he can bag' 
here in June, 1955. Doc Armbnistcr would like to , 
hear from TOM G/\SSIS, MATTHEW KELLER, i 
HUGH FFFZGER^VLD, FRED ARBLE. ROBERT 
BEY, ARTHUR FIEDLER, JOE KELLEG/VN, 
LEO EGEZIA, TOM ENRIGHT, LEO CASl-
Z.VRO, BOB ZEISS and all the rest of you old 
patients who have steadily Ignored those monthly 
bills. If you won*t pay up, at least show up at the 
reunion and explain to tlie doc. 
D/\N ^\'ELCHONS Is a successful general Insur­ance agent-realtor in Hutchinson, Kansas. Dan scrx'cd as Alumni Governor for the ND Foundation In Kansas In years past and thereby contacted many alumni tiiroughout tlie state. He said he bumps Into TED RY^VN frequently. Not so long ago they formed a Kansas Alumni club. 
DOCTOR BILL J.-VNC gets back to tlic campus a couple times a year to sec ball games. He should have no trouble finding his way into the reunion area in June, and there hopes to run into VIC . MARTZELL. JACK NOWERY, BOB JACKSON, j ­ED DEMPSEY, LINE THIESEN, ADAM BRAY, ^ TOM KERRIG.\N, CHUCK KAPLrVN. Bill has four children, one a freshman at Notre Dame. 
LEO DURL/\CHER, living In Wilmettc, Illinois, IS Credit Manager for Admiral Corporation. He was in South Bend last year for the SMU game; rarely sees 1930 men, but works with WALT C^V­HILL as a committeeman in the St. Francis Xavicr Boy Scout Troop. Suggested that wc fill unused space in our class column with an alpha­betical listing of 1930 classmates, their residence, and occupations. The current list now in your hands does a big part of that Job. Only the occu­pations are missing. 
DAN CANNON is still In Real Estate In Co­lumbus. His most frequent contacts with 1930 people arc FATHER RAY TOTTEN, BERNIE CONROY. FRANK KERJES, JOE RYAN and . BROTHER JACK. Dan has been president of '< 
tlic Shamrock Club in Columbus, a group composed of Catholic men of Irish "distraction." Other officers of that club were vice-president ED MORIxVRlTY who taught Economics at Notre Dame in 1926, 
I JOE RYAN, '30, as treasurer, and JACK a\NNON in charge of membership. Wc expect Dan, Jack and Joe R>-an to whip up a, lot of interest in the 1935 reunion around their sector. 
JEROME PARKER of American Airlines wrote that he had seen JOHN BITTER and FR^VNK MOSIER not too long ago, John 5er\*ing as King of Fiesta AVcck in San Antonio and Frank in Brooklyn where every week is fiesta week. Jerry said he would like to hear from TOM KENNE.\I^ LY; also FRxVNK FINNIGAN and BOB KUHN. Congratulations to Jerr>* who won a big national award in 1953 for his advertising product and was guest speaker for the Screen Process /Vssociation, "World Convention, in New York last December. Jcrr>', you better help round up some of the 1930 Glee Club men and see if wc can get them here in June. We need them for some songs at the Friday night dinner in the Morris Inn. 
y Attorney GIL PRENDERG.VST of Ballimore writes that DAVE BARRY is still keeping Belhle­licra Steel prosperous, and GEORGE O'MALLEY is seeing that justice triumphs in the Judge Advo­cate's ofTicc of the Navy in Washington. Hope George can get out this coming June for the re­union and pick up where he left ofT five years ago in Morrissey. The closing bell rang five years ago just when George was in the middle of a sen­tence, and he did not get to finish. Gil reports that FR/VNKLIN O'.M^VR^VH is one of the top brass in the Air Force around his section. 
FATHER "WILLLVM CRxVDDICK, G.S.C., mas­ter of novices at Sacred Heart No\-itiate in Jordan, Minnesota, writes that he had \Tsitcd not too long ago with ART BURKERT, his former roommate in Walsh Hall. One of the noriccs at Sacred Heart was the son of JIM MALLOY, '30. 
JOHN HEILKER, attorneying in Cincinnati, 

. writes about his two young daughters and also re­ports that he sees GUS BONDI once in awhile, Gus is an insurance wheel in Cincinnati. He and his wife Kay recently adopted two wonderful sons, age two. 
"HAD" MANSKE, advertising manager for Hardware Mutual Insurance In Stevens Point, Wis­consin, expects to be here for the June reunion. Hopes to see there TED RY.\N, BILL CLEAR, ED YORKE, RUDY GARZ.V and BILL SHER­M/VN among others. Had spent first 12 years after graduation in advertising, news and editorial work for the Stevens Point Journal; then to Hardware Mutuals where he moved through several jobs lead­ing to his present post. 

JOHN DEi\, assistant Dinsion Manager 'of the Texas Company, in Minneapolis, would like to hear from the Chemical Engineers of 1930 (DICK WAL­TERS and the rest). John was with the Masonite . Corp. until 1937, then shifted to Texas Co. Was ^ a Lt. Colonel in the Air Force during war. Moved to Minneapolis from Denver only three years ago. 
TOM L/\NTRY only spent two years in electrical engineering when he moved into the insurance business where he has remained to this day. With his wife, Clare, a daughter and son, Tom resides in Tuckalioe, N. Y. He frequently sees CON CVREY, his brother-in-law, and JIM DEELY, VP of Brook­lyn Union Gas. 
CY MULLEN \s-a5 writing in 1930 and is still WTiting, though largely in the field of advertising. He says he sees DID SULLIV.VN and JOE Mc-a\BE now and then. The death of FATHER LEO L. 'WARD removed one of t!ie strongest tics Cy had with Notre Dame; this is a sentiment he shares with many, many Notre Dame aliunni who were English majors. Cy said he hopes soon to hear from HENRY WALTERS, HOAVARD HOFF, BAYARD KURTH, ART FIEDLER and LOU 

1 BRFJCNAN, *28. Chief hobbies of Cy Mullen arc reading and horseback riding. About once or twice a year he gets out to Arizona, does a lot of riding on mountain trails, and recoups his energy* for more ad writing. He plans to be on hand for the 25th reunion. 
BEN SOUTH, former teacher at Notre Dame, is now a Math teacher at Texas A. & M. Ben has been away from the midwest a long time; should return next June and sec all his friends in South Bend while attending the reunion. The last ND people he came across were FRED WEISS, ED BARTON, FILVNK METRAILER and ENRIQUE RODRIGUEZ. Ben married in 1949 and has two children. KIRBY SHAFER is Safety Responsibility Evahiator for the Illinois State Highway Dept. He makes his home with his wife, Dorothy and daugh­ter, ^fary Michelle, in Springfield, Illinois. From 

, that distance he should be a sure bet for the 
* reunion. 
WILLIAM J. BYRNE, '20 

A man of many accomplishments is William J. Bymej '20^ five times mayor of Natchez, Miss., and the 1954 recipi­ent of the second Catholic Action A\vard. 
Instituted in 1953 at the suggestion of Archbishop Joseph F. Rummel, president of tlie Catliolic Action Pub­lishing Company, and given annually for "distinguished service to the Church by a lay person of Louisiana or Alississippi," the a\vard was pre­sented to Mr. Byrne Oct. 19 by Bishop Richard Gerow of Natchez at a ban­quet here. 
As Natcliez's chief executive from 1937 to 1947, Mr. Byrne was instru­mental in the construction of the $4,000,000 bridge across the Mississippi at Natchez and was responsible for building a $2,000,000 city water works, and his community's civic audi­torium. Before he retired as mayor in 1947, Mr. B>Tne—a Knight of St. Gregory—had helped secure much new industiy for Natchez, including the plants of the Armstrong Rubber Co., the Johns-Manville Corporation, and the International Paper Company. 
The grand knight of Natchez Coun­
cil 1034, K. of C, in 1937-38 and 
state K. of C. treasurer in 1938, Mr. 
Byrne has been secretary of the Dev­
ereaux Hall Catholic boj-s' orphanage 
in Natchez for the past 25 years. 
Mr. and Mrs. Byrne are the parents 
of three sons, W. J. Byrne, Jr.; John 
Philip Byrne, and Frank Patrick Byrne. 

CHARLIE DUFFY is veep of the Lon? Island Lighting Company. He is wondering about the whereabouts of his old roommate, BOB DINKEL; Charlie says he has missed those old get-togethen of the deep depression days in JIM FRIEL's office with GENE KENNEDY, JOHN CASSIDY, DICK DONOGHUE, and Tn t TOOMEY. Thought there should be a Long Island alumni afHIiatioa under the N^Y club. 
FATHER JOHN 0*CONNEIX, C.S.C., is with the Notre Dame Mission Band and has his head­quarters at 1100 Forest Ave., Evanston, Illinois. Father sees many of the newer ND alumni at mili­tary bases he vbits for missions, but not so many of the 1930 \-inlage. Father O'Connell had several assignments as hall rector at Notre Dame before joining the Mission Band. 
J. E. NELSON is a Chemical Engineer with the National Lead Co., South Amboy, New Jersey. With his wife Valerie, and John U, and Janice 7 he resides in Westfield, Should be coming out to the reunion with a New Jersey delegation. JOE iVBBOTT of Paierson should also be heading this u-ay in June, where he will likely contact JOHN QUINN and JOE LORDI. 
JOE GAN*NON is a General Contractor in BakersHeld, California (Gannon Construction Com­pany). In that area he has run into MARCHIE SCHWARTZ, BEN ALEXANDER, and PAT CAN­N*Y. ^VouId like to hear from ALUITIN WALSH. Joe says his ND-SC tickets are getting progressively worse every two years, so he has decided to give them to his competitors: that will fix them. In Los .Angeles, California, JBf McDONALD is Sec'y*-Trcas. of the Hall-Mack Co. and with wife and four children makes his home at 2798 McConnel Dr. Jim spent 26 months in the Navy during World \Var IL His son. Bill, was seriously wounded in Korea about nvo years ago, and spent about a year in an Army Hospital in San Francisco. Daugh­ter Norcne is an English teacher at Notre Dame Academy in San Mateo, Cal. Jim would like to hear from Gene Kennedy. Saw FREDDIE PEAK 
at the last ND-SC game in Los Aiigeles. JOHN GIBBONS is a Director of Public Rela­tions, x\utomotive Safety Foundation, living in Silver Spring, Maryland. He lived in South Bend until 1940, and four of his five children were bom there. His oldest. Jack, is a senior (Physics Major) at Notre Dame. Expects to see GERRY McKAY, his old ofT-campus roommate, at the June reunion. Gerry is still a salesman for IBM in Minneapolis. John would like to contact JOHN NICHOLAS .McCxVBE, '24, of North Platte, Neb. 
ED HALLORAN is an FBI agent, located In Chicago. He has a son at ND in sophomore year. He had bumped into ED FR.ANCK, JACK CAN­NON and MOON MULLINS not so long ago, and would like to hear from BERNARD BROEKER and D.VN'N'Y SULLIVAN of Baltimore and Elcc­trolux. 
ART ERRA is an attorney and insurance ad­justor in Phoenix. He was in the Judge Advocate's ofUcc during the last ^var; stationed In Louisiana where he met and married Marguerite Loury, a public health nurse and graduate of Peabody Col­lege. Lived in California awhile after receiving a medical discharge from the Artny. Art says he sees FRED MILLER and family at church fre­quently when they are in Arizona. He would like to contact JOHN VINCENT SMITH, '29, and FATHER J.\MES McSHANE of the 1928 class. 
FRiVNK X. O'NEIL, JR., is Serrice Station Superintendent and Merchandiser for Standard OU in Long Bcadi, Cal. He has been very active In KG affairs, holding many offices within his CouncH; also has done his share in office-holding in civic groups. ^Vc hope Frank will start the ball rolling to organize a bunch from California to come out for the Silver jVnnlversary reunion in June; a plane load of California alumni would be adequate repre­sentation from that area. 
DR. BOB JACKSON was Professor of Pediatrics for years at the University of Iowa Medical School, and now is head of the Department of Pediatrics at the University of Missouri. His membership in national and International assodatlons of his field of research has brought him to many spots in Europe and South America for meetings. In 1950 he addresicd the Intcmationl Pediatrics Congress on diabetes, which permitted him and Mrs. Jack­son to visit Rome in the Holy Year and have an audience with the Holy Father. This year Bob was Inrited to talk at the Pan-American Congress in Sao Paulo, Brazil. He Is a member of the Committee of Medical Nutrition of the National Research Council and the American Institute of Nutrition. Because of his research in nutrition and metabolic diseases he ^vas made a member of the Metabolism and Nutrition Study Section of the 

Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 29 
Kation^ Institute of Health. As furtlicr cndencc 
that Bob knows his pediatrics, he has seven children 
ranging in age from 5 to 16. 
GORDON CX)PPS is in wholesale groceo' business 

at Stc\-ens Point, ^Vis. Was intending to send his 
daughter to St. Mai^-'s. He would like to hear 
sometime from JOHN McCARTHY, '30, OONIE 
DONOVAN and RED DOYLE of Buffalo. DR. 
NICHOLAS MAURIELLO is medical director of 
the Wilkcs-BaiTc Clinic of ph\-sical medicine and 
rehabilitation, and the Laurel Hospital and Clinic 
for the treatment of clironic illness and nervous 
diseases. Nick lias a son, age 11, and \vith his 
wife, Christine, they reside at 120 S. Franklin 
St., in AVilkcs-Barrc. 
1Q9 | James T. Doyle 
•'^ ' 902 Oakton Street Evanston, IHinois 
DAN H.ALPIN of Allen B. Du^^ont Laboratories, 

Inc-. u-as reappointed cliairman of the Sales Man­
agers Committee of the Radlo-Electronics-Tclcvislon 
^fanufacturcrs Associatior*. 
Tlic football season is over, a good one at that, 

so it is no longer necc5sar>- to give post-game 
critiques, etc, to your sons and their friends. Take 
a little time out and drop vour secrctarv a note 
for the next ALUMNUS. Tlic Class of 1931 Mass 
and Reunion Fund has received contributions from 
JOHN FORD ME^\GHER and DONALD 
OTOOLE and gives us a current balance of 
$140.00. Offerings for Masses said for deceased 
classmates amounted to $30.00 so far this year. 
Among those seen at the Michigan State game 

were FRANK KERJES, FRANK HOLLAND. 
TOM MONAHAN, SPIKE SULLIVAN, ED 
MURRAY, BOB MASSEY, FRANK CHxVMBERS, 
P.\UL ERTEL, TOM DITCHFIELD, LEO 
KLETZLY, EDDIE RYAN and KELLY PO^^'ERS 
who stayed with CL/VRENCE FUTTER of South 
Bend after the game. I wonder if ED SHEERAN 
got another midnight call? I ran into JACK 
MULHERN, '32, who was asking about BUD 
GROVES who is now located in Fresno, Calif. 
Our magazine specialist, JIM McQUAID from 

Vinccnncs, Indiana, was the subject of a feature 
stor>' in the Indianapolis Star-Tribune last Septem­
ber, entitled "Courage on 'Wheels.** I hope that 
many of you had an opportunity to read it. I 
kno%%' that many of you have been sending Jim 
your magazine subscriptions, but more of us 
should do so. Make that a New Year's resolution. 
As usual my ver>" dependable eastern corre­

spondent JOHN C. BURNS came through with a 
newsy report on the Penn game activities. 
"Your card brings the usual response—I'm glad you gave me a few da>*s' notice tliis time. Made the Penn game this year, a beautiful Saturday, real football weather. It was an interesting game for tlie first half. 'We had loo many touchdowns for them after tliat. Ran into BARRY FRANCIS and GEORGE HEW'SON with their wives during half time. First I've seen citlier of the boys in years— both looked great. To the bcncli after the game to meet CHARLIE and Alice McKINNEY, OLLIE SCHELL (he tells mc the boys in Altoona are okay), JOE ABBOTT and JACK a\SSIDY. On to the ^\'a^wick Hotel later and the only one from our class I happened to meet was D.-VN HtVLPIN and his family. 'Tlie joint was jumping* as the saying goes, and tables were at a premium. I didn't linger too long since I had to return that night and get busy on my new apartment—redec­orating. Please note my change of address—it is now 200 Clinton Street, Brooklyn I, New York. After IG years at 253 Henr>* St., the new owner wants the entire premises. However, I'm still in the same parish, St. Charles Borromeo. 
"Had a delightful weekend wtli ED CUNNING­HAM and his family over Labor Day. They arc now in Central Valley, New York. Ed works in tlie city and calls mc often. He is also dabbling in real estate in Orange County. Visited RITCHIE 
•JUDGE* BxVRBER scleral times daring the sum­mer at Rye, N. Y. The Judge knows such interest­ing people: FILVNK McCULLOUGH, Dick's law partner, won re-election as New York State Sena­tor. A short hop to Mamaroneck and BILL KELLY' S ^vhcre I have spent many a pleasant weekend. Seems the Kcllys are most considerate and allow mc to watch the late, late show all by my lonesome! ED *SLIM' MAHAN recently lost his dad which ^vas noted In the last ALU^fNUS. Ed had a fine letter from FATHER JIM RIZER who is now stationed in Fort Monroe, Va. 
ART DENEHY, '30, and m>-5clf had a most pleasant weekend over June 26th u-ith DR. JOHN FREECE. '3D, former lightweight cliamp. ^Ve met John at his office in Trenton, N. J., had lunch at 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, January-FebTUary, 2955 
JOHN J. p'DONNELL, '30 

One of this nation's most prominent executives in the field of labor relations and personnel is John J. O'Donnell^ since 1946 the manager of personnel and industrial relations for the Lum­mus Company, New York City. 
A member of the advisory commit­tee of former Secretary of Labor Mar­tin Durkin,-John-prior to 1941 was re­gional personnel supervisor for the Home Owners Loan Corporation, and during World War II he was director of personnel for Bendb: Aviation Cor­poration of New Jersey. He is a past president of the New Jersey Chapter of the Society for the Advancement of Management and has served as presi­dent of Engineering Associates, the Na­tional Constructors' Association, and St. Luke's Parent-Teacher Association. 
A 1930 graduate (magna cum laude) of the University of Notre Dame, John did postgraduate work at Columbia and Fordham. 
His work ^vith Lummus—an inter­nationally kno\vn engineering firm— requires extensive world-^vide travel. 
Residents of Ho-Ho-Kus, New Jer­sey, Jolin and his wife, the former Catlierine Lenahan, have three chil­dren, Alice, Michael, and Catherine. 
the Trenton Country Club and then drove to his home in Newtown, Pa. Bridgegate Farm is a grand spot—about 70 acres of rolling fields, bams galore, silos and what have you. John has about 100 sheep, chickens, guinea hens, bantams, and of course, horses. He has riding horses, jumpers and racers. He tells me he has the potential winner of the New Jersey State Bred two-year-old right on his farm, but that remains to be seen. John 
has been named President of the New Jersey Ob­
stetrical and Gynecological Society—the youngest 
man to be named to this position, I believe. 
"That's it for now, Jim. Keep up the good-j 

work on the column. It's always so good to opei4 ' 
the ALUMNUS and sec a *fat' column under the 
class of 1931. That note about RED WELLS was 
hard to take. I'm going to try and get a letter 
off to Red: do hope others will do likcu-isc. Best 
to you and your family. Remind JIM MULVANEY 
that he owes me a letter." 
I delivered your message to JIM MULV^VNEY's 

office, John, and hope that by now he has con­
tacted you. I sent TEX BRIEGER a card but 
haven't had a reply from Iiim as yet. 
Wonders never cease. I had given up on BEN 

LENOUE, but he was made secretary of the 
Western Washington Notre Dame Club and de­
cided to write. "You have undoubtedly decided 
by this lime that you would never hear from any 
1931 class members in Seattle, and especially mc. 
You arc doing a great job of reporting for the 
Class of '31, Jim, and on behalf of all three of our v 
class members here in Seattle, I want to thank you ' 
for your cfi"orLs. On November 16th the Western 
Washington Notre Dame Club held a smoker at the 
Washington Athletic Club in Seattle. I'm happy to 
report that our Club Chaplain, the REV. PHILIP 
DUFFY, who is Archdiocesan Superintendent of 
Education, was present along with yours truly. 
Through some strange operation of fate, I have 
been elected Sccrelarv* of the Western Washington 
Club. Perhaps this accounts for my taking time 
to drop you these few lines. ROY W. BAILEY 
now lives in Seattle. Roy is Regional Sales Man­
ager for the Firestone Company. We have not had 
the pleasure of seeing Roy at one of our Notre 
Dame meetings as yet, but expect this to happen 
at our next meeting. I hope that you and Mrs. 
Doyle will stop and see us when you are in Seattle 
again, Jim. Keep up the good work." 
As mentioned in the last ALUMNUS, wc in Chi->' cago made plans for a luncheon upon the occasion ^ of the visit of TOM ASHE while he was here for the American Petroleum Institute meeting In early November. What was to be a small group turned out to be the largest gathering of '31ers since Commencement Day in 1931. Among those present were AL STEP/\N, JIM MULV^\NEY, JOE BLANEY, ED TA'RN, PAUL DUNaVN, TOM CONLEY, a\R L CRONIN, BOB PENDERGAST. DON MIH.\N, BILL LEAHY, WALT KELLEY, BILL O'MALLEY, VINCE PONIC, JACK • SCHMITT, GENE VALLEE, VINCE BUSCH, JIM O'BRIEN, JI.M GRIFFIN, DON O'TOOLE,. WALT aVHILL, NICK BOHLING, HENRY G. O'CONNELL and GEORGE COSTELLO. There were about SL\ more who had planned to be present but missed it. It is not necessary to comment on what a session tliis was. 
DON 0*TOOLE wrote a few dax-s later. "En-\ closed herewith is my long overdue check for the Mass Fund for deceased members of our class. I have always thought that this was a wonderful project, and I am ashamed of mj'self for not making a donation prior to this time. The !i:nclieon for Tom /Vshc last Tuesday was a really wonderful experience. I had even forgotten what some of the fellows looked like, because several of those present have not attended any of tlie affairs that I hap­pened to make. You could tell how much they all enjoyed It by the lctharg\- with wliicli ihcy finally left tlie restaurant and went back to their ofiices. I sincerely hope we can find more occasions in the future for reunions of this kind. You are by all odds the best class sccretar>' that any class at Notre Dame has. I sincerely hope we will all con­stantly demonstrate to you our appreciation so that we can induce you to stay on the job. With kind­est regards." f 
I do need some Inducement to continue reporting for the dass of 1931 and a good way to show your appreciation is to send in a contribution to the Mass and Reunion Fund. Don came in from the far south side, but the prize for the greatest distance traveled goes to HAROLD J. O'CONNOR of Rockford who came in for the day. BOB JOYCE had planned to accompany Red but a last-minute cliange in plans prevented his attending. W^c hope you can make the next one. Bob. 
TOM MONAHAN couldn't make It but sent tlie following note: "Thanks for your note, sorry I can't make the luncheon Tuesday. Would like to be there and sec the gang—tell them all hello for mc. We will be up the first weekend of December for our annual meeting of Broom ^(anufacturer5 and will give you a ring. Hope to make the ND-Iowa game on tlie 20tli, but won't make the So. Cal. game. Had a letter from FATHER BOURKE < 
MOTSETT. He and RALPH DALTON arc okay. Father Bourke is busy building a new gym at his high school (Schlamian) in Dan\^llc. Haven't seen any *3ler5 down in this area so I don't have any more ncu-s. Kids and Mary arc fine. Tim is Kpn the local football club and still undefeated with two games left to go. Regards to the gang, Kay 
•and yourself." 
Over a radio newscast December I, I heard tliat Areola had a big fire that threatened their busi­ness district. I imagine Tom was a weary boy for a few days as he is one of the volunteer firemen in Areola. 
From the REVEREND C. BOURKE MOTSETT: "I certainly appreciated your letter inviting mc to the luncheon in Chicago last Tuesday. I had every intention of coming* but a meeting of our High School Board was postponed from ^fonday until Tuesday, and I absolutely had to be present at our Board meeting because of a number of dccbions that had to be made in regard to purchases for our new g^Tn. I am sorry I missed seeing you and a number of our classmates. Maybe the next time 

• J that the Chicago NT) Club of the Class of 1931 
' . has an afl'air I could make it if you will be kind enough to let me know a few da^'s in ad\'ancc. Being that you arc sudi a good noonday parishioner of St. Peter's, could you get us a little of the take for our tremendous debt on our High School? If you ever have a chance to come down to Danville, it would be a real pleasure to welcome vou at St. Paul's." 
JIM RICH planned to be present but missed our luncheon and sent a note: "I tried to get you on the phone Tliursday afternoon, but couldn't make connections and as my time was limited I could not trj' again. I had made all arrangements to come in for lunch Tuesday as ^^''ALT KELLEY contacted mc about it, but I got stuck tn Wood­stock in a case which should have been finished at 
10:30 and finally wound up at 2:30. Sorr\* I missed it. BUD TOUHY called me from Chicago bc­
. tw-ecn trains from New York to L. A. He was on the way west on his annual trip for his company. Next time he comes through he is going to lr>' to give Us some advance notice so wc can have a welcoming committee on hand. At the Fox River Notre Dame Club CoU Tournament, PHIL xVNGS-TEN, VERN KNOX and myself were present. BILL CHAWGO, who is usually on hand, was out of town on business. We had about 50 alumni from Aurora north along the Fox River Valley to Wood­stock. Vern Knox was toxstmastcr and won tlic 4 Michigan State tickets annually rafllcd off by the club to create a sdiolarship fund. It was nice to see you and Kay again. Sorry we couldn't spend more time, but as you arc not 'tied tip' as much as we are with three children, you and Kay should come out for dinner.*' I wonder if Vern stayed away at the Michigan State game be­cause of the rain. I didn't sec him around. Speak­
- ing of the rain that day I had the pleasure of a 
^ long and pleasant visit with Px\UL ERTEL be-t%veen halves. Paul is now in Columbus, Ohio, and lives next door to LEO HALTER who is associated witli Paul. 
Tom Ashe before leaving Chicago called and said he met ROBERT BATY, a former Howard Halhr at the A.P.I. meeting. Bob is in New York and a \^ce President of one of the larger banks. 
A few days ago I received a letter from CHARLES G. MORRISON, ex '30, Miami, Fla., who had spent considerable time in the Na\'>* with tlic lalc DR. JOSEPH KEOGH. It is certainly a glowing tribute to one of our classmates and I am mailing the original to Mrs. Kcogh. 
"As an ex-Notre Damer (not of your class), I noticed the passing of Dr. Joseph P. Keogh, '31, and would like to add a few words of comment. You may include ihcm In your class notes If you choose. 
"/\s a member of the Navy Medical Department during World War II, I spent some time with Dr. Keogh. Working with him was a privilege. I still see him, standing amid hundreds of horribly wounded, administering to all, cheering the hopeless —suffering with the pain-wracked; his very pres­ence comforting to wounded and hospital per­sonnel alike. 
"My heart would sicken to watcli Dr. Kcogh labor literally da>-s and nights with little rest, and no sleep at all, witli endless lines of patients crowd­ing ever)' way he turned. To me he looked like a saint, and acted like one. Handsome, gently pro­fessional, conscientiously expert, refusing death to anyone, hurt. personally, when some unfortunate did slip away in spite of us. 

"To see him on the rare occasions when he could get away to ^fassI cliecred me evea more. His K humble worship made God seem very near. He 
GERALD F. McGILL, '28 
A Notre Dame man who is helping to make the U. S. a better place in which to live is Gerald F. McGill, state director of Wisconsin's Bureau of Alcohol Studies, who in 1954- became the general chairman of the National States Conference on Alcoholism. 
The author of "Wisconsin Strikes Back," a recent article on alcoholism in The Crusader magazine, Gerald in 1949 founded an adult guidance cen­ter in Superior, Wis. For his work in alcoholic rehabilitation as director of the center, he received an honorary scholarship to the Yale School of Al­coholic Studies in 1950. In 1951 he attended the University of Wisconsin Conference on Alcohol Studies as a student and lecturer. 
A member of the Notre Dame Club, the Holy Name Society, and the Knights of Columbus, Gerald has served as assistant director of the Uni­versity of Wisconsin Conference on Al­cohol Studies (1952-53-54); chairman of the National States Conference on Alcoholism, at New Haven, Conn. (1953); general chairman of the Na­tional Research Conference on Alco­holism (1954); delegate to the Gov­ernor's Conference on Children and Youth; Director of Child Guidance; and as a resource consultant on alco­holism for the Wisconsin Youth Coun­cil. 
Residents of Madison, Wis., Gerald and his wife, Marion, have three chil­dren—Gerald Francis, Jr.; Colleen Jane, and Jill Ann. 
made his calling noble in the very best traditioo of Notre Dame, his profession, and the Navy. He was a living example of a true, fighting Notre Dame man. 
" I shall atvec forget him. May God love him as fully as he loved all he met or treated. Your class should be proud of him. 1 knew his overwork would claim its- toll. Sadly, almost tearfully, 1 nearly envy him, for his rc^vard in Heaven must be great.** 
1 sent a few cards out for news recently and received a response from JOHN FORD MEAGHER who recently left Mankato, Minn., for Washington, 
D. C. Red is Vice President for Radio \vith the National Association of Radio and Television Broadcasters. Incidentally, Red, you were the sub­ject of much discussion bet%veen the following sec­ond floor Howard Hallers November 9: VINCE PONIC, TOM ASHE, JOE BLANEY, ED RYAN, RED O'CONNELL and mj-self. Thb should ring a bell with JOE BOYLAND, JACK PULTI, JIM KEARNEY, FRED S^VINT, JOHN WEIBLER and many others. **I\'e just returned frtjm a two months* tour of the country (during which I was witness to the Purdue embroglio) to find your most welcome card and the current ALUMNUS. As you may have perceived I've shifted my base of opera­tions from Mankato to the Babylon-on-the-Potomac, as of last June. However, my current endeavor keeps me hopping from one end of the country to the other, so I don*t feel securely based anywhere. On my most recent swing from Boston to San Francisco and Daytona Beach to Spokane, I en­countered those two erstwhile luminaries of Howard and Morrisscy Halls, "HOOK* CRAINE and MATT CULLINAN, in Detroit and San Francisco respec­lix'ely. Delighted to hear of your get-together in honor of Thomas Richmond Ashe. He should be 
properly impressed by that distinguished assem­blage! Washington appears to have a very active club. I've paid my dues, but have been out of town for every event since I've been here. My brother, *48, heads the Oregon Alumni this year— and it's all too true that my baby boy is a sopho­more residing in L^-ons Hall. It was good to see RED O'CONNOR and NICK BOHLING at the Purdue game. How is Ponic? I found myself in Fox Lake the afternoon of the Pitt game, but I didn't see him anywhere. Enclosed is my mite for the Mass Fund. My best to v-ou and yours, and thanks for >-our thought of me." 
Last Sunday the Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its annual Communion breakfast ^nth ^fass in St. Peter's followed by breakfast at the LaSalle Hotel where F.ATHER TOM BREN^N-AN treated us to some e-tcellent stories about Notre Dame. Among the local *31ers present were RAY COL­LINS, GIL SEAMAN, FR.\NK HOLLAND, JIM DOYLE, WALT CAHILL, BILL LEAHY, AL STEPJ\N , ^L\RTIN DO\\7<"EY, ED RYAN, BOB RUPPE, BERT .METZGER, NTCK BOHLING and C^\RL CRONIN. In making some calls on this I contacted CHiVRLIE KOVACS who is now living at 400 Nevada, Mt. Prospect, 111. JOHN MA­HOXEY couldn't make it as he w-as in Dallas for the SMU game where he saw RED O'CONNELL. BERT MAHONEY must have been there so he can bring us up to date for the next ALUMNUS. I must wind this up as JOHN C\CKLEY has gra­ciously given me a few days* grace on the Dec I deadline. May vou all have a happy and holy holiday season. DON'T FORGET THOSE XL\SS FUND CHECKS. 
lfl^ 9 James K. Collins ''* * 3336 Kenmorc Road Shater Heights, Ohio 
The Class extends its deepest sympathy to the family of FRED SNITE who died recently. Fred, who was stricken in 1936 and confined to an Iron lung thereafter, attended our last class reunion. 
FATHER LARRY BROESTL was the speaker at the annual Family Communion Breakfast in Cleve­land early in December, and brought a fine breath of life on the campus to the group. He is rector of Dillon Hall this year, and is teaching German. 
AUo at the breakfast was JOHN MATOUSEK, with his family, who said that he had recently talked to JACK GEDDES in Minneapolis. Jack is with Pure Oil there. John also said that FRANK DENNY, his btother-in-law, is still living in the San Francisco Bay area and is an executive with the Safeway Stores. 
Also seen at the Breakfast was KHKE CRAW­FORD and his family. 

J.\CK COLLINS has been doing considerable insur^mce work along with his law practice. He told me that he often sees BOB GOR&LAN, who 
Sotre Dame Alumnus, January-February, I9S5 3t 
is doing Public Relations work for All State In­
surance in Chicago. 
JOE MARONICK and his wife visited the 
Alumni Ofhcc while they were on campus lor the 
SouUicm Califomia-Xotrc Dome football game. 
TOM ^fAGEE is teaching a class in insurance 
at ^^ultnomaIl College in Portland in addition to 
his other activities as an Insurance Underwriter. 
193 3 Joseph A. McCabc '**** 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, HI. 
ARTHUR X. BEC\^\R, manager of appearance 
design for tlie General Electric Company's Major 
Appliance Division, has been named a member of 
the Selection Committee for the *'Good Design*' 
exhibition held at the Mcrcliandise Mart in 
Chicago. 
HUGH COLOPy «-as elected picsldcat of the 
•\kron (Ohio) Bar Associatio'i. 
Kids, things arc good this month . . . letters to bum! Figuring that >"ou are sick of my soloing, I'll turn tlic mike over to someone else without delay. The next voice you will hear will be that of our pecricss leader, GEORGE ROHRS (address: 514 Kindcrkamack Rd., Oradell, X. J.). 
"It certainlv was nice to get together with vou and JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY and I feel confident tliat we will be able to carrv- out the ideas •wc discu.<;sed. In tlic meantime, here arc some notes for the December issue. 
1.
 J.ACK HOYT attended the Penn game with a group of attomc>-s from Me.\ico. 

2.
 ED ECKERT of Albany held a cocktail party after the ND-Penn game in Pluladclphia and u-as busy arranging contracts with tlic GE brass. Ed now spends his summers at L^ke Placid where he is a neighbor of Ted Collins and Kate Smith. Claims he max go on TV himself. 

3.
 PETE CONNELLY of Rochester recently entertained at luncli on two different occasions. First, with counselor JACK HOYT and then with GEORGE ROHRS. 

4.
 MARSH/\LL Mc.-W'ENEY is ver>- active and helpful on the Xcw York Scliolarship Fund, ^farsh is still witli the U. S. Immigration Service so drop him a line if >-t>u have any Chinese friends experi­encing difficulty in entering the city. 

5.
 JIM SHEA also contributed generously of his time and services on tlie vcr>' \vorthy Fund cause. 

6.
 Saw JACK McQUADE and he is a very busy law>'er-accountant in tlic chemical tanker trade in Xcw York. Has a boy prominent in athletics at Cliaminade High in Long Island. 

7.
 AL BLTLER, our successful insurance execu­tive, is very proud of the achievements of his tu-o sons now attending Yale. 

8.
 GEORGE GRU is known as Mr. Five by Five at his beautiful BrookI>'n Cafe restaurant and in-rites any and all to drop in when in the neigh­borhood." 


Since wcVe dealing with the top brass of tlic class, let's switcli over to Southwest Vice President LUCIE.\ KEMPF (Lindsay, Oklalioma): 
"Had a letter from GEORGE ROHRS and said 
something about a confab with you and O'Shaugh­
ncssy while risiting in Chicago some weeks ago. 
Said he would give mc the details later. Sounds 
like something is in the u-ind and I sure \%'ouId 
like to hear about it. 
"You know some months ago I wrote to JOHN 
CAHILL and suggested that we all contribute a 
fiver to a kitty yearly and in this way wc could 
really build up a goodly sum for our 25th year 
contribution. What do you think? 
"By the way Joe, what amounts have been given by other classes? I understand tlie Class of '28 really gave a big one. ^Miat was it?? I think that if the fellows were told about it that wc could plan accordingly toward same and be ready for it. 
*'I have been traveling quite a bit since the middle'of June and did spend a couple of nights with FATHER JIM DONNELLY down Lampasas, Texas, way. He sure has a big Job on hand but mctliinks hard work agrees with him. At that time he had cards from John Caliill who was on a \-acatiDn to tlie west coast and John stated that he was going to stop by on his way back. I, too, thought that if John came this way he would stop by to sec me, but like all otlicr fellows who get behind a wheel when tlic>* arc on the way home, the\* don't stop to eat only when forced to. Sure would like to have had him and his family slop by. 
"TIic inrilation is extended to all Notre Darners who might be passing through tliis way. ^Vc just completed a nice big house set up among the u-ig­wams and it will be hard to miss. So make a note of it and if ever out this way make it a must. 
*'I might by chance be in Chicago the Aveek of the 5th, if so will call. Tliat is if I can make it from Dallas where \vc are going to see the game \vith Southern ^Icthodist." 
And now here's a letter from C/VRROLL STA­LEY. Carroll is with Procter & Gamble Distrib­uting Company, Cincinnati 1, Ohio. He \s-rites as follows: 
*'Apparcnily the xcty convenient postcard which you sent to all members of tlic Class of '33 was not suffidcnt to move the spirit. I guess I trace Utis letter to the fact that the November-December issue of tlie ALUMNUS put my brother-in-law, BOB REYNOLDS, '49, in the "Spotlight Alumnus" column. I think it is well deserxed as Bob is doing a grand job in his field and tlic vcrj-fine magazine that he is associated %vitli. Jubilee, deserves our backing. I did not intend this to be a plug, but cacli month wc welcome our copy, as it is out­standing in attractiveness of cover and material and thought-provoking in content. 
"Tlic second item that moves me to wTitc is to report that my twin brother, SETON, Class of '33, was just presented with his second pair of tuins. Tlicrc was a time when, as tuins should, we were running neck and neck in tlie matter of a family. Wlien wc had our fourth, Scton double-crossed by having his fourth and fiftli. Tlicn while wc stood amazed, numbers sLx and seven irame on the scene. I think Scton would agree with LES RADDATZ 

TRI-CITIES—^Alirnini of tte Tri-Cities celebrated the Notre Dame-Iowa game with a Friday night rally. L. to R.: Bill Bembrock, club president, coach Terry Brennan, Father Hesburgh and Henry Wurzer, Foundation governor of Iowa. 
who said, *I'I1 bet we're the most prolific bunch 
that ever graduated.' 
"Speaking of Les, I wonder if he still has his csuncl-hair coat tliat he used to xvear in his native city of Cleveland and at school. In it Lcs alwa^*: looked like a professional football player. ^Mien h^ took it off, he could hide behind an average tree. Can you still, Les? 
"Wc all must have been saddened by tlic death of FRED SNITE, JR., and will miss the reports on tlic doings of his grand spirit. One of my fore­most recollections of Fred goes back to 'Old St. Ed's' and the night of one of the proms. In the process of getting our formals on, I received a swig of a concoction which I later found out was a mixture of water and shaving lotion. What fun! Seriously though, his new life must be just wonder­ful to him after the past 18 years. 
"I must confess to not being as active in the local group as I should be. I do on occasion see BOB CHENAL, '31, R/W PELLM.\N, '34, and FRED SULLIVAN, '34. Fred, incidentally, was written up recently. Seems that he tells original fair\' tales to his cliildrcn so well that word got out and he was encouraged to publish them in ^ book form. 
"TED WROCKL.\GE, '25, who heads up the Bulk Soap Department here at Procter & Gamble, is always a^-ailablc for last-minute huddles on the impending football gomes. 
"JOHN GILLIG.VX, '43, is a member of the Cincinnati City Council. I live in the Counts*, so I'm not able to give him my support. 
"JIM BURKE, Class of '48, also is a member of the Procter & Gamble firm. Jim is head of the brand promotion of Drcft. I want all you fellows to get out and buy new Pink Dreft, especially those liring in the north-central area of the United States, which is part of the Sales Dirision in which I am most interested. 
"Getting back to Lcs* statement about our pro­ductivity, here is a thought whlcli again empha­sizes that it may be later than you think! I wa!i<' struck by the fact, upon reading tlic birth notices, that with the exception of one member of the Class of '32 acquiring a son, the list then w-as solid vritli members of the Class of '35 or later. .Although we believe it can't happen to us. Time docs inexorably march on." 
I prex-ailed on JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY to take time out from his duties as president of the Notre Dame club of Chicago to post a few notes about ND's he has seen or heard about recently. John—an attorney with offices at 10 S. LaSallc— writes as follows: 
"In line with our conversation, I am herewith sub­mitting incidental chit-chat for your scoop column. 
"Neighborhoodwisc, I have seen FRED BECKLEN­BERG, ED STEPH/VN, AL STEP.VN, LUKE TIERXAX. In order to see some of tlie other \ 33'ers it would take me out to Glenvicw where I would look up PAUL RIGALI, JOHX PO^'XTOX and BILL C/VRROLL. Swinging south on the cir­cuit into Skokie I sec BILL KXOX still plays golf on occasion, togetlier witli ART O'XEILL, BOB HAXLEY, JOHN and TO.M XASH, with nary an honest handicap in the whole bunch. 
**Tlie loop gives a better opportunity to catch up on the 33'ers where the busy urban areas have their pavement trod with ED \'YZRAL, FRANCIS CRO^VX, JOHN CUNNE.V and PAUL OTOOLE. 
"Everybody seems to be still eating." 
Many thanks, John! You may have noted that George Rohrs mentioned in his letter that John met us to discuss waj's and means of getting more class activities launctied—it's an indication of the fact that we are all looking for good suggestions about class affairs. J 
Boy, w*ould I like to hear from more of you along that line! Lucicn Kempf mentioned a class gift also, suggesting tliat every member give five dollars. Ttiat would help a great deal .. . as it 

. is now, we haven't money enough to make another class mailing. 
If you can see your way clear to giving five dol­lars or more, send it to our class treasurer, JOHX CAHILL, c/o Cahill Electric Company, DLxon, Illinois. ^\nd remember—our class will be at the foot of the classes if we don't have some kind of gift at our 25-ycar reunion (not too far off, now!) SO . . . GIVE, gang! 
I guess a guy gets in tlie habit of liking the sound of his own voice. In spite of the fact that four Io>'al *33's rallied round to drown out the McCabe monologue, I hope ^tiu'll forgive mc if I mention my favorite subject again—veneration of-^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, ^955 
the Blessed Virgin. By the time you read this, the Marian Year u-ill have ended. It's the hope of many that during the great ceremonies scheduled for the closing of this great obser\'ance on Dccem­
jjjcr 8, Pope Pius will announce a provision for /Jrther public devotion to Mar>'. But whether he docs or not, wc should all remember our special dedication to Ilcr as sons of Notre Oamc . . . and keep up the Rosaries and Aves for our families, for the University, for world peace . . . and for our own salx'ation. 
Remember also AL BUTLER, a good '33 who died recently . . . and all our classmates, living and dead. 
P.S.: Just talked to LOU BUCKLEY, and he had the answer to LUCIEX KEMPF's question—the class of 1928 gave the University a gift in the neighborhood of 515,000. . . . How's THAT as a target to shoot for? Reason it is particularly em­barrassing to us is that the *28*s re-une with us . . . and wlicn they come back for their 30th, they'll be watching what we give as class donation on our 23th in 1958. So, lads—what'U it be on 
' that upcoming niglit in June tlirec and one-half years from now—a decent class gift—or "Zero Hour"? 
Those who listened carefully wlien the wind was from the East recently would have heard the bells toll the glad tidings that BILL L\7CCH, artful New York bachelor, and only '33 who took his theology at Yc«hida Rabbinical U., had at last joined the happy throng of benedicts. Speaking for the class, our congratulations to Bill, our compli­ments to Mrs. Bill—and happy Lynch-Ing! 
19^ A '^* Hdward Carey 
• ''' ^ 18843 Inglewood Ave. Rocky River, Ohio 
Mr. and Mrs. PARIS N. COWART, Miami, Fla., announce tlic marriage of their daughter Ann Beret to Kenneth D. Casllebeny. Paris is 
*• doing a great job In Florida as Foundation Gov­ernor of the state. 
10 yeAJt R.EUNION i JUNE lO-M-IX 
IQO C Frankl>*n C. Hochreiter 
• ^^^ 1327 Pentwood Road ^ Baltimore 12, Mar>-Iand 
PAUL A. FERGUS u-as elected president of the South Bend Civic Planning Association, Inc.^ at the annual business meeting held recently. Also elected with Paul were ROBERT HOLMES, *30, and KARL KING, '37, as \-ice-presidents, and Howard ^^oore, sergeant at arms. 
Well gang, we're writing this on December 5, and we know five days have passed since deadline. Wc can only hope that the good editor has kept space open for us since we \\Totc him that wc would be arriving late with our copy. Tlie last four weeks we were spending ever>* spare hour memorizing lines for a new show at The Vagabonds —one we arc doing with a couple of our daughters this time—it opened on the 28lh of November and this is our first free weekend, between the first and second week of the run. 
Seven more questionnaires came along since our 
' last trip to press—two of them from men we listed at the top of the last column. Could that listing have brought them In? If so, what's the matter with the rest of you guys? 
Tliis makes a total of 185 from whom we have heard since we began this drive for the '55 cam­paign. If our luck, our time and our Gibsons (last time It was Tom Collins, fellas!) hold out, we hope to get through all 75 remaining '35crs with this copy. If we make it—and you can count 'cm when you get this next issue of the ALUMNUS— tlien wc will have NO COPY for the Spring number. Our reputation as a class Is at stake— you really don't want a blank white space under "Class of '33" in Mardi, do you? No? Tlien let's have some copy! 
The most Important tiling on the current agenda is that announcement of the twenty-year Reunion Chairman. He is DAN YOUNGEIttUN! To Dan 
r wc send our very personal and sincere thanks for 
J. L. "LOU'» CONROY, '27 
The promotion of J. L. "Lou" Con­roy, '27j to the post of general com­mercial manager for the Micliigan Bell Telephone Company has been an­nounced by the firm. 
In his new assignment in tlie com­pany's headquarters at Detroit, Lou will head up all commercial depart­ment operations in the state. 
He started with Michigan Bell at Pontiac in 1929 and held various posts there and in Flint before he \vas ap­pointed division superintendent at Sag­inaw and later at Detroit. He was made assistant general commercial manager in 1952 and was named as­sistant vice president last July. 
One of Notre Dame's all-time bas­ketball greats, Conroy coached at St. Frederick's High School at Pontiac for two years, and later at the University of Detroit before beginning his tele­phone career. 
Lou and Mrs. Conroy have one son, John, who is in his junior year at Uni­versity of Detroit High School and plays left end on the team which this year swept to the football champion­ship of the Detroit metropolitan area. 
accepting a difficult job. Dan was on the fifteen-year committee and knou's what he is getting Into. All the more credit to him for his fortitude and de­votion to things Notre Dame, and our Class. 
Wc arc sending to Dan immediately twenty-five dollars ($25.00) in advance contributions to the Rcimion (exclusive of the Unit fee). Since our last report to the nation, TOMMIE OWEN slipped us a ten dollar bill at the Xotrc Dame-Navy Rally and TOM LaLONDE sent along a check (with a very nice note) for five dollars. It any of the rest of you *35ers want to put a.coo* 
tribution in the "Kitty," send them to: DANIEL J. YOUNGERMAN 1516 E. Cedar Street South Bend 17, Indiana 
and make them payable to " *35 Reunion Com­mittee.** 
.\nd now two other notes before we get into the "Call of the Slates'* for the twentieth. First of all, we %*-ant to express to JIM CRONIN our sincere sympathy on the death of his vdfe, Jean. Her recent and untimely death puts something of a pall on Jim's plan for '55. Wc know that Jcaa's four children and Jim will miss her more than Avords can tell, 
MAT SAGARTZ writes that the University "in­sists on listing me as '36, but be that as it may .. . I intend getting out another pre-reunion Scan­dal Sheet on '35 Ci\'ils and would appreciate your announcing It In the ALUMNUS. Tell the Civils of '35 that I should like to have a snapshot nega­tive of the entire family and a letter giving all the names and ages (wife's name cxchided)." Let's get on the beam here, men! .-Ml you Civil Engi­neers send this dope to Mat at: 
5842 North Afedlna Avenue Chicago 30, Illinois And now we come to the questionnaires—^75 of them: 
ED CALDWELL, 8517 Riverviwv Road, Brecks­\'ille, Ohio, is football coach and teacher at John Adams High School in Cleveland, where he was been for twenty- years. In 1951, Ed was recalled as a Lt. Commander in the Navy for duty in Korea, Panama and Thule, Greenland. Ed is mar­ried to Ruth and they have a son, Jeffrey, 11 and a daughter, Robin Lee, 6. Yes—Ed will be with us in '55. 
IR\VIN "FOOTS" DAVIS, St. Francis College, Lorctto, Pa., is Athletic Director at the college. Not much on ''Fiwts" other than he has a wife named Esther and five children, 3 sons and 2 daugh­ters as follows: Thomas, 19; Ray» IBj John, 14; Joan, 12; Carroll Ann, 5; and Michael, 3. "Foots" will be there In *55! 
AD.VM DRiVYER, King's College, \Vnkes Barre, Pa., is an Associate Professor and Head of the Education Dept. Adam has his Ph.D. from Ford­ham. Married to wife Rita; there are son Michael, 10, and daughter Barbara 3. Before taking his doc­torate Adam was at Boston College pursuing his Nfasler's degree. He has been at King's College for six years. Unfortunately Adam will not make the 20th, likely because of his OUTI class schedule. Adam would like to hear from FRANK VUKO­\1CH and PAUL STAUB. 
CLIFF DUDLEY ("J. C * to you), P.O. Box 531, Paducah, Ky., Is a life insurance agent. Here Is another escapee from marital bliss! World War II took ClifT up through the ranks from Private to Colonel. This past Summer he spent his usual two weeks at Ft. Meade with his Military Gov­ernment Co. of which he is the commanding offi­cer. Mama "Hoch'* was at Girl Scout Camp dur­ing that period w-ith the three girb, and one night ClIfF, a fellow officer and your Scribe "stole** into camp with some amber fluid at II p.m. by parking lights and Ave all had a couple. (Confidentially, we don't think the camp director knows about it!) Yes, "J.C." will be with us at Reunion. 
JACK DUFFEY, 291 Yarmouth Rd., Rochester, 10, N. Y., is a Fire Insurance Co. representati\*e. Jack is married to Claire and they have a son Eugene, 7. He was transferred from Boston to Rochester last year. Jack will be there next June and in the meantime he would like to hear from JIM MacDEVrrr and JOE MYRON. 
JIM D\VYER, -H Leighton Rd., Welleslcy, Mass., is a salesman with the Marathon Corp. He has an unknown \rife but together they have managed to come up with two sons and a daughter: Patrick, 9; James, 5; Catherine, 7. No news from Jim except that we'll all see him In *55. 
CARL ESSER, 208 N. View St., Aurora, Illinois, is a factory foreman with AViUiani F. Jobbins, Inc. He is married to Elizabeth Mae. The Esscrs have two daughters: Kathleen Marcy and Elizabeth Ann; and a son, Stephen—ages unknown. It was Carl who sent word some months back about TED S.ANTANIELLO wanting to come to the Reunion. Carl—we sent Ted a questionnaire but it was not rettimed! "Butch" is checked In for '55. 
NEIL FARRELL, 400 N. Front St., -Memphis. Tcnn., is a paint manufacturer. The company i$" known as Farrell-Calhoun, Inc., trading under the name of Old Honesty Paints. And here is another bachelor. Anybody keeping tabs on the single men? We have coimted nine, not including religious! Neil is coming back in June. 
BILL FARRELL, 27 Indian Trail, No. Scitnate, Mass., is in real estate in Boston. There Is.a \nfe 

NotT* Dame Alumnus, January'FebTUttTyj 1955 
around but we don't know who she is. Togrthcr the Farrclls have managed to bring into sight: Alice. 9; Da\id, 7; and Ricliard, 5. Bill is return­ing in '55. 
LOUIS FAUTSCH, 1045 South Grandnew, Du­buque, Iowa, is an attorney and one of those great guys we Uvcd with in Sorin—Lou being a senior lawj'er. We arc happy to note tliat he is still linng with wife, Lorraine, 14; and three sons: Louis Francis, 10; Lawrence Harrison, 4 and Lee Da\-id, 2. Lou would like to hear from "KITTY" GORMAN. Yes, hc'H be there in June. 
PAUL FERGUS, 337 Summers Drive, South Bend 17, Indiana, is \^ce President and Account Executive u'ith Jones & Taylor and Assoaatcs, an advertising agency. Paul, and wife Lcnore. have a daughter, Lcann, 16; and two sons: Paul A. Jr.. 7, and Christopher Charles, 3. Paul has been with his firm since I94I. He handles 8 national ac­counts which require extensive travel in the East. Paul uas St, Joe ValJe\- Club prcxy in '53. Of course he'll be with us in *55. 
P.\T FISHER, 605 E. 42nd St., Indianapolis. Ind.. is a lauyer. Here wc have another uniden­tified wife. By now there should be 5C\'en children. AVhcn we heard from Pat another was due in July so we have counted it in. For sure there are: sons Pal, 8; Joe, 7; Mike, G; and Chris, 5—daugh­ters ilar\', 3; and /\nne, 2. Tlie Fisher man will be there measuring his "corporation'* in *55. 
JOHN FITZPATRICBC, 3421 Pamell Ave., Chi­cago 16, Illinois, is a senior cliemical engineer scrying as a group leader in a cj-clotron group ai the Argonne National Laboratorv". We gather John is also unmarried from his notes. Prior to his present assignment, John was with the cxpIosK-e di­\'ision of the bomb project at Los Alamos from '43 to '46. And before that he was supervisor of I.aboralories, Institute of Gas Teclmology; and on the stair of Armour Research Foundation. Small wonder John is listed in American Men of Science, AVho's Who in Engineering, and Who's Who in Middle West. We'll see the Fitzpatrick man in *55. 
TO.M FL'i'NNj 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, Hawaii, is an attorney with wife, Ruth and daughter, Marie Adele, 10. Tom was good enough to write us a long letter when he returned his questionnaire last May. Here is a rundown on Tom's career: from '46 to '52 he was a Deputy Attorney- General of the Territory-. In February of the latter year, Tom opened his own law office. This year he has returned to the presidency of the local Alumni Club. In '55 the Flynns will again be on hand! 
BOB FORBES, P.O. Box 9I9I, Santurce, Puerto Rico, is general agent and mortgage agent for the Pilot Life Insurance Co. ^Vife, Candida, and Bob have three daughters: Jeanne, 12; Patty, 11; and Lucie, 9, along with sons: Raymond, 6 and Robert Lee, 3. Bob has been in Puerto Rico for the last 14 years. In addition to representing the Pilot Co. of Greensboro, N. C , he is secretary' and board member of a local life company—^Atlantic Southern. Bob makes about three trips to the states eacli year. He u-ill *'do his best" to be with us in June. 
GEORGE FOSS, 709 N. Spring Ave,, LaGrange Park, Illinois, is Director of Research, Wiite Cap Co. Mary and George have George HI, 12, and two daughters: Mary Ellen, 10, and Bartiara Ann, 
5. George has recently been appointed to the Advisory Council on Food En^neering of Illinois Institute of TccIinolos>'. He would like to hear from JOHN FRY and RALPH G.\UTHIER (so would we like to hear from the latter). George wiU check in, in '55, 
NORM FREDERICKS, Lahscr Road, Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is Sccrctar>--Treasurer of Koenig Coal and Supply Co. No word on Mama Fredericks, but wc know there are four little Fredericks—^Norman J., Jr., 14; J. Richard, 8; Lois, 12; and Marcia, 11. Norm took his law degree from Midiigan in '38 and practiced in Detroit for several years. Tliis brought him to the Koenig Co. He was prexy of tJic ND Club of Detroit in '45; the National Ready Mbced Concrete Association in '51 and tlie ^(Ichigan Ready Mixed Concrete Association in *52. Cur­rently, Norm is a director of the Detroit Coal Bureau and Detroit Oil Heat Institute as well as the Bank of Commerce. Count this man in for '55. 
JOHN FRY, 121 East 6th St., Los Angeles 14, Cal., is Regional Engineer with the AT & SF Railway Co. No name attached to the little ^v'oman, but tliere is Joseph C , aged 7. John would like to hear from FRANK O'CONNOR. He will come East for the big one in June. 
JOHN GAINER, 2718 Hillcrcst Ave., Alton, Illinois, is Trust Officer with the First National Bank and Trust Co. of Alton. Here is another unsung w^c ivho has contributed to the Gainer name: John, Jr., 9; Frances Ann, 14; Martha, 5 and Sarah, 3. John discontinued law practice and 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
CHARLES N. HECKELMANN, '34 

A New York editor—the creator of Deputy Marshall and a 1934 Notre Dame graduate—Js fast becoming one of America's top Catholic popular fic­tion writers. 
He is Charles N. Heckelmann, a vice president and the editor-in-chief of Popular Librar>'3 Inc., who is the author of hundreds of magazine ar­ticles and 19 books—tiie latest of which is a d)Tiamic Western, Hard Man With a Guiij published by Boston's Little, Brown, & Company on Aug. 10, 1954. 
A member of the Notre Dame Club of New York, the former president of the Catholic Writers' Guild of Amer­ica, and a charter member of the West-em Writers of America, Charlie has seen two of his magazine novelettes become starring vehicles for Johnny Mack Brown, and his famous novel. Deputy Marshall, made into a movie starring Jon Hall and Frances Lang­ford. 
Charlie Heckelmann was graduated maxima cum laude after maintaining a "four-year 95 average" at the uni­versity- Valedictorian of his class, the winner of the Meyers Burse for excel­lence in journalism, and vice president of the Notre Dame Press Club, he served as a sports feature writer for the Brooklyn Eagle, and editor and production director for the Cupples and Leon Co. before joining Popular Library, Inc. He and his wife live in Glendale, N. Y., and have two chil­dren, Lorraine, 12, and Thomas, 5. 
went with the bank in '51. He would like to hear from other *35crs in the trust field. John would also like to hear from PAUL HART and FRANK KOFPELBERGER. (Needless to say, so would we!) The Gainer men will be on hand in June. ^ 
SAM GIBBONS, 601 East Monument St., Day-* ton 2, Ohio, is a partner in M. J. Gibbons Supply Co., handling wholesale plumbing and heating equipment. Ah, a wife! Celeste and Sam have two daughters—Kathleen Ann, 14, and Mar>' Margaret, 12; along with Samuel C., 6. After Icanng ND, Sam spent a year at Grand Central School of Art in New York, another year at American Academy of Art in Chicago and back to Grand Central for 3 years more. But he gave it up for plumbing and heating in '38. (Sam was with us only two years). He "-as prex\- of the local N*D Alumni Club in *53 and received the Man of the Year Award at the same time. Look for Sam In June. 
BILL GORGEN, 310 Ridge St., Mineral Point, Wisconsin, is a Funeral Director. The Gorgens have one son—Gregory- William, 15. No name on Mrs. G. Bill sa>'5 he left the engineering field in '42 to take over his fatlier's funeral home and v plans to remain in his new profession. Count on J Bill in '55. 
VINCE GORMAN Is a surgeon living at 3050 Old Town Road, Bridgeport 6, Conn. He and uifc. Alberta, have a daughter, Rosemaiy Joan. (We think she Is around 10). Wc know that the Gormans liave moved since last Spring as they mentioned it when in town for the Navy-Notre Dame weekend, but we do not have the new address. Tills should bring it out! VInce has been in Bridgeport nearly five years doing surgery and continuing his work at St. Vincent's Hospital. (It \%-as great seeing you kids!) Vincc hopes to make the Reunion. 
aUHLL E GRAVEL, 611 Murray St., Alexan­dria, La., is an attorney in his native town. With wife, Katherine, Camille has produced quite a family. There are nine children distributed as fol­lows: girls—Katherine Ann, 12; Mar>* Eileen, 10; / Martha Louise, 8; Eunice Holloman, 5; Virginia ' Maureen, 3; Margaret Lynn, 2—boys—Camille F. Ill, 7; Grady David, 6; Mark Alan, 1. We missed Camille at tlic Na\y game—thought wc would at least fly in a party of 50! Already we have told you of his gracious contribution toward Reunion. Camille will be there in '55. 
TOM GRtW^, American Embassy, Pretoria, Union of South Africa, is Public Affairs Officer with the U. S. Government's Overseas Information Service. Tom married Jane in Turke>*—an Amer­ican, wc assume, on duty overseas. Tliey have two daughters: Kathleen, 3 and ^tar>' 2; and a son, Tliomas, 3 mos. Tom's message was brief and wc give it to you in part: "Have been out of the 
U. S. most of the time the last few years. *48-'51, Public Relations Officer, Military- Mission in Tur­key. '52-'54, Information Officer with U. S. Infor­
mation Services in Pakistan. Home in U. S. this 
summer and came to Pretoria in August. . . . Our'^ 
third diild arrived six weeks after wc arrived in 
Pretoria—same day that household furniture and 
efFecls arrived from Karachi." Tom will not be 
with us in June. 
K\Y GRUMMELL, 405 East Ir-ington St., South Bend, Ind., is a U. S. Probation and Parole Offi­cer. Ray and wife, Mary Nell, have two children: son—Leonard Michael, 1, and daughter—Sharon Marie, 5. /Vfter a stint in the Tlieological Sem­inar\-, Washington, D. C , Ray left in '40 to secure a graduate degree in social work at Catholic U. Work in two Boys' Homes, and the Milwaukee Guidance Clinic, took Ray into federal probation and parole work. He was sworn in at Hammond in '51. TONY KUHARICH Is his chief and LUTHER SW^i'GERT is his Judge. Ray hopes to make it in June. Ray would like to hear from FATHER ED HEWITT who is an Army Chaplain. 
BILL GULMONT, 5921 Dupont Ave, So., Mln-^ neapolis, Minn., is President of a Sales Promotion firm and a "gentleman (?) farmer." Wc don't know who Bill was lucky enough to marr>% tiut togetlier tiie>- brought along Mar>- Ann, 7. Bill would like to catch up with TO.M (PR^MRIE) WALSH and JACK D. LONG. Tlic Guimont man will be on deck in '55. 
ELMER GURY, 533 Frve Ave., Peoria, Illinois, is an attorney. Here we have another unknown wife but the Gury's have done right well with that family. There arc Mary Frances, 13; Susan, 12; Jeanne, 9; Annette, 7; Lynette, 7; ^fartha, 4; and John, 10. Elmer would like to hear from Sopho­more Hall freshmen like JOE ARGUS, JIM SUL­LIV/\N, BILL FRESCHI, PAUL HOCKWALT and JOHN CRUNICAN. You can plan on seeing Elmer in June. 
ARNOLD IL\CKENBRUCH, 1506 N. 123 Street, , ^Vauwatosa 13, Wisconsin, is a plant engineer. No children are noted and we have you down as "single" Arnold. Please correct our tabulation if we arc wrong. Arnold moved over from architec­tural to plant cn^nccring awhile back. He was 
•Resign
 engineer for Baylcy Blower Co.; then in >\rniy Ordnance from M2 to '47 as ^Vssistant Head oi Aerodynamics Research at Aberdeen, Md. After a period witli Cudahy Bros. Meat Packing Co. (*47­'49), Arnold moved over to Red Star Yeast and Products Co. in M9. In recent years he has made engineering sojourns to New Orleans and Sao Paulo, Brazil. Arnold would like to hear from 

A.
 J. HAMM and ADRhVN WACKERMAN. He'll be there in *55. 


PAUL Hv\LBERT, 1106 Webster Road, Webster, N, Y., has a staff position with Eastman Kodak , Co. in Rochester, X. Y. Marian, Paul's high ! school sweetheart who came into her own, and our man have two daughters—Susan, H, and Sally. G; as well as son Bruce, 13. A social worker by trainiiAg and profession, Paul got tired of the long hours and small dollars with a year of casework and another on Alfred U. faculty, so he took up y'.he Eastman opportunity when it came along IG 
' years ago. Rotary, Scouting and local Republican politics keep Paul out of mischief. Check Paid "present" for Reunion. 
JOHN HALLBERG, 4167 Wakefield Rd., Berkley. Michigan, is oflice manager for Alfred A. Smith. Inc., General Contractors in Detroit. We've got no wife here, again, but John has a daughter Sidney Ann—no age. John writes that after five years with the Engineers in the European end of the War. he returned to his old job with the State of Illinois, moving to Detroit in '46. John would like to hear from ED CULLEN, JIM HOWARD. SID PETTIX­GILL, ED LYNCH, ROUNDY POGUE, BILL a\SAZZ.-\. MIKE S.VNTULLI and JOHN PEN­DERGAST. We'd like lo hear from a number of them too, Jolml Count the Hallberg man in for June. 
^ JIM HAMILTON. 1028 Douglas Ave., Racine, ^'kVisconsin, is President of the Greene Manufacturing 
. Co. With wife, Louise, Jim has produced two and two: James, Jr. and Michael; Josephine and Mar>' -Ann. No ages, so we will have to guess. The Greene Manufacturing Co. is a metal parts plant. Jim, incidentally, got himself related to FR/VNK HOI-^\Ht\N through marriage—wife Louise is a cousin of Frank's. Jim will be there for the roll call of states in '55. 
NORB HART, 219 Rosewood St., Muncic, In­diana, is in the insurance business. He and Kathleen, his wife, have three sons and a daugh­ter: Jo5cph, II; John, 10; Theodore, 6 and Kath­leen Teresa, U mos. (When you read this she will be one year, since she was born on New Year's Eve. '53.) Norb would like to hear from NEIL CROWLEY. He will be registered in nest June. 
PHIL HEINLE, 499 Ridgewood Rd., Maplewood, 
* New Jersey, is a purchasing agent. We don't know for whoni. Nor do we know the name of the good lady who married Phil, but they have three daugh­ters and a son. as follows: Phyllis, 12; Carolyn, 7; Janet, I, and Phil II, 5. You can check the other details on Phil when you see him in '55. 
DAN HENRY, 735 Shirley St., Birmingham, Michigan, is President of Douglas Offset Co. Mar­ried, to whom wc don't know, Dan has two pair: Daniel, 12 and Darid, 9; along with Lucy, 10 and Mary, 1. Dan and brother-in-law TOM MORAN (from whom we have not heard) bought out the above noted firm in October '52. Tom continues with Safron Printing Co., and Dan nms the new outfit. Check Dan in *55. 

, PAUL HOCKWALT, 3905 Laird Place, Chc\T Chasci Mar\iand, is the Washington representative for Hercules Motors Corporation. Wife to Paul is 1 known as Jane, and there is son, David Paul, 8, and daughter, Marcia Jane, 5. Paul wrote that he planned to bring the questionnaire to us as he is in Baltimore frequently—it came by mail! Rt\Y OAKES you are being paged to contact Pault Don't know why, but Paul turned in a *'no" for '55. 
PHIL KIRLEY, 116 McKinley Ave., Kewancc, Illinois, is Office Manager for Kcwanee Machinery and Convc>-or Co. No wife reported on, but two children—son Mike, 8, and daughter "Nlissy," G. AU wc know about Phil is that he ^vill be %vilh us in June. 
JIM MacDEVITT, 4 Burbur>- Lane. Great Neck, New York, is an attorney, C.P.A., and Lecturer on Taxation in the Graduate School of N.Y.U. Jim and wife, Catherine, have 3 sons—no names . but ages: 11, 10 and 7. Jim posed two questions r —wc answer as follows: 1) the Reunion will be 
GEORGE J. KELLY, '42 
The American Legion's new national public relations director is George J. Kelly, of Richmond, Va., a Notre Dame Alumnus and World War II navy fighter-bomber pilot. 
\Videly known in American Legion circles, George coined the name "Tide for Toys" for the international good­will project carried on by the legion­naires from 1949 to 1951 designed to collect playthings for children in war-devastated lands overseas. In 1950 he was one of the advance pressmen for Erie Cocke, Jr., then national com­mander, on "Operation Jackrabbit." 
Associate editor of the Scrip and as­sistant editor of the Dome while at Notre Dame, George won his wings in 1944 and served in the Pacific theater of war as a pilot with Bomber-Fighter Squadron 14 aboard the Essex-class aircraft carrier USS Intrepid. 
After his navy stint, he became a member of the Legion's Richmond Post No. 1, and on Feb. 1, 1946, he joined the National Public Relations staff in Indianapolis. He was subse­quently transferred to the AVashington ofRce where he was appointed assist­ant public relations director. 
Married to the former Barbara Agnes Jones of Anderson, Ind., the Kellys have a son and two daughters. He has two brotliers who are NO aliun-ni—Dr. Frank R. Kelly, Jr., '39, and Maj. Charles E. Kelly, USAF, '40. 
June 10, 11, 12; 2) The author of the play thought up the idea of our grey hair in the pix—it was AFFAIRS OF STATE and we were the "Secretaiy of State.** Jim ^vill answer "yes** In '55. 
PAUL MAHOLCmC, 83-15 Lafferts Blvd., Kew Gardens, L. I., New York, is a Sales Manager and President—of what we do not know. He and wife, Ann, have a son Paul Barrie, 14. No other news on Paul except he will be with tis in *55. 
JOHN MALLOY, 9616 S. Chappel Ave., CWcj^o, 111., is an insurance undenvriter. Wfe, Irene, and John have three daughters: Eileen, Margaret and Maureen, as well as son, John. No ages on tht Malloy clan! Xo ne^vs, either, e-tcept "yes** for-Junc. 
FRi\NK MATAVOSKY, 2650 West 5Ist St., Chi­cago 32, 111., is an attorney and President of Econ­omy Savings and Loan Assn. Marie is ^fama 5. name and together she and Frank have managed: Mary Ellen, 14 and Nancy Ethel, 14. Wc figure-twins! Are wc correct, Frank? Incidentally, Frank mentions that DOM VARRAVETO is the attorney and "Veep** of the .-\ssociation. Here is another **yes" for *55. 
JOHN MATTHEWS, mi 6 Clyde Rd., Home-wood, III., is a Special Agent with the F.B.I, John and Helen have three daughters: Jeanne, 11 j Marv- Pat, 10, and Janet, 4; along with son John, 3, John has been with the Bureau since '39 and iik Chicago for the past five years, after roving around a good part of the country. Count him present for June. 
WALTER MATUS, 172 Gilbert Ave.. East Pater­son, N. J., is an engineer. Wc gather Walt is single since there were no dctwls regarding family. Arc you correctly classified, Walt? ^No_ncws ott this man except he will be ^vith us in *55. 
FRANK MAXWELL, 1120 E. Bulla Rd„ South Bend, Indiana, is Associate Professor of Physical Education at ND. There are a few Ma.tivells, in­cluding: wife, Doris; Frank, Jr., 12; Tom, 10, and John, 8. After graduation Frank taught three-years at Nazareth Hall Military School and then moved to Livonia Central School in Livonia, N. Y. Notre Dame called Frank hack and he has been there 14 years. Presently he is working on his^ doctorate at Indiana U. with a major in audio­visual education. Yup, next June w-ill find Franlc with us. 
JOHN Mc-UIDLE, 13827 Cohassct St., Van Nuys, California, has his own company—^Mc.-\rdle Brok­erage Co.—confectionery brokers. No news on the-little woman but there are tour children: Tim,. Mark and Stephen, ages 9, 4 and I respectivelyr and Nancy, 8. John started his own business about seven years ago and after several rough years it appears as though it will click. They cover South-em California, Southern Nevada, Western Atizotia and part of Lower California. He is President of the Los Angeles Confectionery Sales Club. For '55 there is only a "hopeful** for John. 
JAMES McAVENEY, 39 Third St., North Ar­lington, N. J., is with the Addressograph-Multi­graph Corp. in business machine sales, and ^so-working as a Systems and Management Engineering Consultant. Jim and w-ife, Lolabelle, have two daughters: Jo Ann, 12 and Madeline, 6; and son, Jimmy, Jr., 9. There is a call out for LDJCT WURZER, NORM FREDERICKS, JOHN ANNAS, BILL MacDONALD, WADE KELLEHER, BILL COLE and JOHN BtJRKE. Jim plans to make-reunion. 
ALBERT MCCARTHY, 1721 Hampton Rd., Grossc Ptc. Woods, 30, Michigan, is Branch Man­ager for Michigan Mutual Liability Co. No wife­hcre, either, but we have two sons and a daughter who line up as follows: Timothy, 7; Terry, 5, and Deborah, 5. Al was w-ith his present company before a few veats* stint in the Navy. He would like to hear'from CHARLIE MORRIS, PETE: VTVTANO and Bill MacDONALD. Al will check in next June. 
JOHN MCDONNELL, 36 Oak Lane, Davenport, low-a, is a quarry manager for Limvood Stone-Products Co. of Buffalo, Iowa. Jack and wife, >fary, have five children: four sons—^John, 13? Tom, II; Bill, 8, and Eddie, 3—and daughtei-Mary Anne, 4. This Is the first we*ve heard of ole John in fifteen years—he'll be quite a sight in '55! 
GEORGE McGRATH, 111 Church St., Ware, Mass., is a teacher and coach at Ware High Schoot where he has been since graduation. Isabellc and George have a daughter, Louise, 3. During the-war George saw four years* sert-icc with the Ma­rines. How about that H.\RRY GAFNEY, guy, George—can*t you get him to return his ques-

Notre Dame Alumnus, January'February, 1955 3S 
tionnaire with a little info on himself? George 
vk-ants to make reunion. 
JOHX ("GUXNER") McGRATH. Scdalia Bank 
and Trust Co., Scdalia, Missouri, is President of 
said institution. He and Mar>- have brought along 
four children and wc have classified them as three 
^I s and a boy—hope we're correct, "Gunner*'! 
Here wc go: Kathc, 10; Pam, 9; Teresa, G; and 
son—Micky, 4. As you likely all know—"Tlie 
Gunner" has been banking for years (that is when 
he can lay down his six-shooler)! He'll shoot his 
wav into reunion! 
JERRY MOLIXARI, 256 River St., Oneonta, 
X. Y., is Owner of a hotel. There' must be a wife in tlic picture, but wc don't know about her. Five 
•children are identified as follows: Terence, 9 and Ke\-JD, ], along with daughters Kathleen, 7; Chris­tine 3, and Margaret 3. Looks like another pair •of twins! Jerry says he found and married his wife in Ireland. Mio, he has 300 feet of color IG mm. film of the '50 reunion. (Be sure to bring it back with you In '53, Jcrrj-—we'll find a projector some-Avhcrc.) JOHN HIGGINS, you are being paged, along with BILL .MURTHA, SAM LaMONiaX, BILL SCHMIDT and WADE KELLEHER. Wc gather that you gather that the "Mol" will be there next June. 
JOHN MOXAHAX, 450 Beverly Drive, O.-cnard, California, is a physician and- surgeon. He and "wife, X'irginia Joan, have four cliildren—all bo>-s: John R., 7; Donald C , 6; Richard, 5, and Thomas, 

2. John took his medical degree from St, Louis U. in '39, had four years hospital training and a tour -of duty in the Army and then went into practice in '-14, He was cliicf of staff at St, John's Hos­pital and also President of Ventura County Medical Association. GLEN NORTON (whose mail has been returned unclaimed) is being paged by John, who says Glen is a neuro-surgeon in Brooklyn, N. Y, 
Tlie California medical man doesn't know about 
reunion, 

CHARLIE MORRIS, 18 Monroe St., Honcnyc Falls, N. Y., is a salesman with Brown and Bigclow -of St. Paul, Minn, (the advertising firm). He and Doris have three daughters: Sharon, 15; Maria, 13 
•and Carol, 11. Wc have not seen Charlie since New Orleans about 9 years ago, when he was in­terested in an air freight line. Tliat ble^v a fuse and Charlie returned to the trucking business tcm­poranly but moved in with Brown and Bigclow and is craz>* about it. Was transferred from Hart­ford, where he jaincd the advertising firm, to Roclicstcr, N. Y. Count Charlie in for '55. 
BOB MORRISSEY, 2944 Washington Blvd., -Clc\eland 18, Ohio, is a manufacturer's agent for metal fasteners. He and Catherine have really pro­duced a family: three and three as follows; Barbara Ann, 12; Molly, 10; Jane Elian, 8; John Leo, 7; Jlobcrt Houck, 5 and James Ncal, 2. (We're glad you like our material. Bob!) Paging BOB DONO­HUE, DICK PREZEBEL, ED R.\DDATZ and TO M LaLONDE. Bob hopes to make reunion. 
BILL MOSS, 739 East 140th St., Cleveland, Ohio, 
is a general traflic manager with the Eaton Manu­
facturing Co. WIe is Helen and together they have 
Billy, 8, Notliing mucli on Bill except tliat he 
w-ants to hear from JOE BE.\CH and will be back 
in June. 
BILL MURR.-VY, 4118 West 73rd Terrace. Prairie Village, Kansas, i& a salesman with B. F, Good­rich Co, Xo word on his wife, but Bill reports a 

•daughter, Patricia, 16; and two sons—Michael, 13 and Bill, Jr., 5. Bill also reports that lie travels 20 states for the rubber company. Xot much time .at home, boy! Give Bill a clicck in the *'coniing" •column for '55, 
VIXCE MURPHY was recorded as having died last time wc went to press. As tvc said then, 

"Vjncc's was one oi the first qncsiionnsircs to come 
in with a *'sure" for reunion plans. He was a sales engineer with Master Electric Co. in Cleveland .at the time of his death. A report on Vincc comes up now in alphaliefical order, 
CHARLES NO\':rVK. 308 East Prospect Ave., Hamburg, X". Y., is a contact metallurgist for the IBcthlehem Steel Corp. Wife, Adcle, and Charlie have two sons: Kurt, 10 and Paul, 5. Charlie ^*•rites that he would like to hear from DICK 1*FEFFERLE and JOE LYNCH. (Brother, John, iilled in a bit on Charlie and said he is an iLxpe­
•diter between Bethlehem and Chrysler Corp., work­ing out of Detroit.) Check in the Noi'ak man 
for June. JOHN NOVAK, 483 McKinley Pkwy.. Buffalo 

3 , N. Y., is Phy. Ed. Instructor and Football -Coach at Seneca Vocational High School, Mary 
Eileen, his wife, and John have two boys: Jack, 7 .and Bill, 2; along with daughter Alary Ellen, 5. John is also Phy. Ed. teacher and coacli at Lacka­-wanna High School, where he has been for 18 years, 
3S Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
He had a tour of duty as a Xax-j- Lt. for four years, is now a Lt. Commander in the Rcscr\'e. John would like to get a ^%'ord from RAY BONAR, FR^VNK GAUL, JOHN D'ARCV and JOE UN­DERKOFLER. (You see, John, you were not due to come up 'til tliis time to press. But thanks for the additional note!) Here is another Novak for June! 
RAY OAKES, 630 Monroe St., Ardslej-, Pa., is operating an audio-visual equipment business. He and Mimi have five children—Suzanne, 9; and Riciiard, 7; Donald, 5; Mart, 4, and Phillip, 2. Ray uill be with us in *55. 

GENE O'BRIEN, 3200 East Biddle St., Balti­more 13, Md., is Executive Vice-President of the O'Brien Corp, And listen to this lineup of family: George Dennis, 15; Michael Francis, 14; Gene, Jr., 12; Freddy, 10; Christopher, 7; Nellie, 5; and Ann Hil!ar\', 2, No report on Mama. Gene will register in next June. 
GE.VE O'REILLY, 146 Paradise Ave, Middle­town, Rliode Island, is a merchant. That is, he is the owner of the Jamestown Hardware and Lumber Co. of Jamestown, R, I., and also Presi­dent and General Manager of J. O. X'cill Supply Co. of Fall River, Mass. Gene sent along a recent picture of his family and it is wonderful. Unfor­tunately We do not have the name of the mother of those 10 lovely cliildren. But here are their names and ages: Timothy, 14; Eugene, Jr., 10; Brian, 8; Kevin, 6; William, 5; Joseph, 10 mos.— and then Sheila, 13; Eileen, 12; ifary-, 4; Alice, 2. Gene would like to hear from JIM DILLON. Count Gene present for '55. 
BILL OTTE, 401 West Part St., Coldwater, Ohio, is /Vssistant Controller, New Idea Dixision, Avco Manufacturing Corp, (Tliat's one of the most novel titles wc have heard yet!) No name for Mama here cither, but the Ottcs have four girls and three boys as follows: Lois, 12; Carole, II; Lorraine, 7; Marilyn, 5; Billy, 9; Jocj-, 2, and Rickey, 1. Bill will sign in next June. 
TOM OWEN, 4004 Wile>- Ave,, Chattanooga, Tenn., is a Manufacturer's Agent for electrical sup­plies in TVA. He and wife Madge have daughter— Katlileen, 12 and son Tom, 9, We have already reported on Tom's fine contribution whidi he gave us at the Xax-j'-Xotre Dame Rally. Tom is Presi­dent of the Chattanooga X'D Club. He would like to hear from JACK PENDERGAST and BILL OTTE. Here is another for June! 
BOB PENDERGAST, 405 West 59th Terrace. Kansas City 13, Missouri, is Secretary-Treasurer of tile Eureka Petroleum Co. He and Margaret have two sons, Micliael 10, and Patrick 7. Bob sends his best to ROY SCHOLZ and would like to hear from LOUIS YAEGER. Ring tlic bell again for June—Bob is coming. 
BILL "BUSTER" PFEIL, 25 Lindan Drive. 

ITionias E. Treacy, '36j has recently been named director of sales and marketing of the Merck and Company, Inc., Chemical Division, Rahway, N. J. 
Aldcn, New York, is owner of both a lumber and 
construction company as well as a realty and in­
surance business. No report on Bill's wife, but 
they have five children. There are Linda, 11; 
Kathy, 8; Robin, 6, and Chris, 2. The fifth was^ 
due in May—no recent report on outcome. Bi'#. 
will be with us in '55. 
JIM PICK, 533 Fourth Ave., West Bend, \Vh­consin, is a physician. With wife Elizabeth, Jim has managed four sons and a daughter, as follows: Peter ^\'illiam, Karl Edwin, James Kurt, Thomas Joseph, and EMcn ifaric. No ages given. Jim will be there next June. 
JOHN PORCORO, 394 Trenton Ave., Paterson, New Jersey, is a law%'er. He and wife, Gilda, report no children. Here is an interesting note— John's first case ^vas classmate WALT MATUS who changed his name officially from MATUSE­VICH. Wc Were going to mention that under \\''alt's bit above, but decided to save it for here. John would like to hear from "DUKE" WAL­TERS, "BUS" BREEN, BILL CASAZZ.\, TO.\f WELCH and ED CULLEN. The Paterson attorney will appear at the "bar" In June. . 
WALT PO\\*ERS, 1235 Bates Rd., Rocky River\ 16, Ohio, is advertising manager for The Higbee Co. (department store) of Cleveland. Walt and Virginia have two sons—Michael, 8 and Donald 6 with anotlier heir due this month. Walt reports that he was married in Germany in '46, He was advertising manager for Titche Gocttinger of Dallas for 3 years, and then Kaiifmann's Department Store of Pittsburgh for another triple before going to Cleveland, where he has been since October '52. Count on Walt next June. 
TOM PROCTOR, S4 WilUam St., ^ew York 38, 

New York, is an attorney with the firm of McXutt and Xash. He and .Audrey have son Philip George tvho is 13. In addition to his Xew York law ofiice, Tom also maintains one In home town of Elkhart, Indiana. Check in another for '55. 
PHIL PURCELL, 320 East Fourth South, Salt Lake City, Utali, is a managing partner in the Continental Insurance Agenc>-. His wife is deceased { but Phil carries on with sons Phillip HI, 10; Paul, 7 and daughter Ann, 12, Phil reports that business is wonderful "even for a *red neck' In a Mormon community." BOB SIMMONS is paged. Here is another for June. 
ED iL\DDx\TZ, 215 Holbrook Drive, Idaho Falls, Idaho, is supervisor in training and communications with the Aircraft Nuclear Propulsion Dcpt. of Gen­eral Electric Co. He and wife Doris have t*vo daughters—Barbara, 4 and Martha, 1. Ed left Cleveland back in '41, was in AVashinglon, D. C. the middle forties and has been out Idaho way for some time. He Is making reunion if possible. 
AL RAVARIXO, 5 West Geycr Lane, Kirk­wood 22, Missouri, is still a spaghetti manufacturer 
in St, l.ouis. lie and wile, flelen Marie, have no 
children. AI reports that he and the little woman spent 4 months in Europe the summer of '53, Toured the continent covering 12,000 miles, in nine { countries. Al hopes to make reunion. 
JIM REVILLE, 90 Larchmont Ave., Larcbmont, New York, is a consulting engineer. Jim married a Portland, Oregon, gal named Jane Bishop, They have daughters Anne, 11; Daly, 9; Irene 6 and Amy, 3. From Jim's notes (which we'll keep confi­dential) we'd say he has not changed in 19 years. He'll chock in next June and you can ask him what he wrote. 
JOE SCH.MIDT, 406 Ea^t 149ih St,, New York 5J. S. Y., is in advertising with Greshoff Advertis­ing Agency*. He and Marie have three children: Xoreen, 7; Joanne, 4; and Joe, Jr., 17 mos. Joe would like to hear from BILL COEN, JOE FLYNX. VIC -METPLER and DAX CUXHA. He'll register with us in June. 
JIM COLLERAX, 19921 Beach Cliff Blvd., Rocky River 16, Ohio, is a C.P.A. Xo report on his j-wife but they have James. 10; Dennis, 6; Mar>' .•\nne, 9, and Cathy, 4. Jim sends along a further report on WALT POWERS from *\'hat we gave you above. Ila writes tliat Walt recently left Cleveland for Los Angeles so you can consider what wc said under Walt's sketch as historical. Maybe with this he wil] give us a fill-in on n-bat he ts doing on the coast. Jim will be with us In *55. 
WALT DICK is Rev. Walter J, Dick, O.C., Catholic Mission, Box 1326, Lushoto, Tanganyika, East Africa. ^Valt Is a priest missionary In /\frica. Walt writes that he has been out of touch with cver>'onc since he left XD, He was in Rome and Xorthern Italy until '43 when he went to Tan­ganyika, He asks: "Would some good 1935 alumni fonvard me some American magazines—they ^vould be a blessing here!" Further he writes: **I would like to hear from anyone so kind as to write to me!" Well, fellas—here Is something for ymi to { think about at Christmas. Surely we all have stray periodicals which could find their way to Walt. And how about a deluge of Christmas cards to cheer up a classmate in dark Africa? 
Tliis winds US up for this trip to press. Tlic num-

Vcr lias been increased by two since we started to write a week ago—the Collcran and Dick question­naires came along several days ago. It is now December 11 and we hope the Editor has been patient. Some of you boys have been waiting months to be reported and we'd like to get you all in this lime. (That's how POWERS got away from us!) 
FR.\NKLYX HOCHREITER, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Pa., is Tenant Activities Ad­viser, Housing Authority of Baltimore City. He and wife, Clara Ann, have daughters: Judith Ann, 12; Claudia Lee, 9, and Mary Christine, 6. "Hoch" manages to keep his financial head above water through the profession of social work, and his in­terest sharp in little theatre work. His tenth show in four years closes tonight and he directs one next April. 
J (Ed. Note: If you guys arc looking for entertain-
f mcnt on Reunion Weekend don't forget that your class secretar>' is a 'pro.' A review in the Baltimore press stated that "Franklin Hochreiter's perform­ance as the Inspector (in stage play, 'The En­chanted') had a style and an understanding rarely seen in amateur productions." J.C.) 
That's it tncnl How about fifty more reporting in time for the next column? Let's get our bags out for June! You four Vccps—start your cam­paigns. Get those letters rolling around the coun­try—TALK IT UP! WRITE IT UP! LIVE IT UP! WE HAVE A RECORD TO BREAK! VOU WILL NEVER HAVE /VNOTHER 2()-YEAR REUNION AS LONG xVS YOU LIVE! 
1 Q^X A. H. Aloorman 
• ^^^ 1708 Industrial Bank BIdg. Detroit 26j Michigan 
^ THOMAS J. TRE.\GY has been appointed to the new position of director of sales and marketing of the Chemical Division of Merck & Co., Inc. 
1937 ^^"' ^°^*^^' 
E.\-ccutive Vice-President 
MacManus, John & Adams, Inc. 
Bloomndd Hills, Michigan 

In the rarificd strata occupied by those columnists who get paid, it is quite common for the by-liner, wearied by his constant trips to the bank, to pre­sent to his readers a '*gue5t columnist" every now and then. Tills not only takes the writer off the hook, it gives the reader somebody else to get mad at and makes thin^ less orderly all the u-ay around. 
On the assumption that what's good for pay is far more blessed when it's free, we make bold to 
^ step aside this Yule month and turn over the space to a guest writer. M. BERNARD M. NIE2ER of St. Joe Road, R. R. 9, Fort Wayne 8, Indiana who, when faced with a one-page questionnaire, turns up with five and a half pages of long-hand on legal cap left over from his last assault and battery case. (A Hoosier up for throwing a can of oysters at a tongue-tied keno caller.) From here on it's pure Niezcr: 
"You arc a brave man—still battling it out u-itb the '37 alumni, and we certainly have been an unapprcciative and uncooperati%*c lot for the most part. Tills most recent bid for news that I am writing on here—more of an *arc you still alive* questionnaire than anytliing else, started me think­ing. Is there anything that really holds an alumn! together—and if there is something, what exactly is it? Are we really interested in knowing how many cliildren so and so has (Niezer has three)— 
"t Kerin, Michael, Kathleen, Stephen, they all seem to have the same names; and do we really care that, for c-vample, Bemlc Niezcr is a partner in an insurance firm, or even the fact that we insure St. Mar>-*s? (Notice how he sneaked those plugs In?) 
"No—I don't tliink so. Sure, all of us had a few drinking pals—Chicago week-end buddies that lost monc>' side by side in Kitty Davis' and so on —that would spend x-acatlon with, us—that were in our weddings perhaps, when we were married, and we are interested in these lads still—but for hell's sake you don't read an alumni column to find out about them—you either sec them now, then and again or your wife corresponds with his wife or you receive a Christmas card—and each year there's a new member of the family in the picture on the inside. The news you read in an alumni column at this juncture is either. about people whose names you no longer recognize (assuming you did know 
y them in the first place) or, about people whose names you remember, but can't any longer clearly associate with the person whose name it is. It upset mc so one day that I found the '37 year book and t:^ged all the names wth the pictures. Then and there I found I could remember about fifty percent of them. Well, it could be this—I cither didn't get around on the campus and meet all these people cvcr>'onc else did, or I'm more for­getful than most individuals at my age. Could be —but I don't believe it's all the answer. 
*'Sccms to mc we might all be interested perhaps in a statistical approacli. Let's find out—out of 300 or so reporting to you (Hah!)—what the average family size is—how many are still unmarried—ho^v^ many dead—and from what cause. Do accidents lead, and at what age docs heart trouble take over as No. I killer. (Niczcr's in insurance, remember?) 
"Let's find out how many say the rosary in the home evcr>- night—ho\v many smoke—what the average amount of life insurance ownership is— what the average amount of earnings is. ^Vhy, we could develop some statistics not only interesting but maybe useful. (Maybe even libelous.) 
"Do more '37 classmates own Fords, Chevs, Plj-mouths—how many Cadillacs? Ho\v many mar­ried Catholics—or St. Mary's girls—or what have you? This would be certainly more interesting to me than to know that so and so is president of this or that and has six boys, six girls. 
"The questionnaire could have questions in it so interesting that most cvcrjonc ivould fill them out. Why, after you published the results. Class of *3G, *38, '35 and so on ^vould follow your example! I would be more than glad to help work out a ques­tionnaire. (Tlierc's an offer, Cackley.) 
"Thought I would have this typed at the office —but guess I won't and just send this. Enclosed my questionnaire. Sincerclv, Bemie Niezer, 121 Dillon, 419 Lyons, 331 Corby, 110 Walsh." 
Following this is a postscript which is shorter 

than the letter by a bright red hair. In the in­
terest of research to the end, here is the P.S.: 
"By the way. Just to test my memory I wrote down the above (The hall numbers, we presume.) Not bad- Not too sure about the Dillon number but never could forget Lyons—that was the deal with four in a room—Px\RKER SULLIVAN, AL SCHWARTZ, PAUL SHEEDY and m>-self. Wc would blanket the dormer windows and door, take out the medicine cabinet and bring in the IJght cord tliat had been connected to the all-night Ught on the outside of the building. 
"By the way—the second time—I was at ND several Avceks ago. Now that O'Shaughnessy is built lhe>* are clearing out the Art Gallery on the 2nd Floor of the Library. There were a few Ma­donnas—oil paintings—that the University decided could now be dbpenscd with. Unfortunately, they were rather large for most homes. But here*5 a project for the '37 class. Let's sec if we can't be sure tliat ever>* '37 home has a picture of the Ma­donna in the living room, the bedroom or wherever appropriate. Here's a worthwhile project for us. 
"Third by the way—I knew a guy once in Bloomfield Hills—not an NDcr, not even a Cathoh'c —went to camp in Canada with him one Summer, name of Roswell G. Curtis (obWously on the lam over the border). Is he around there? (No) So long, Bemie." 
So long, pal. I'm heading for my year book to look up a picture. 
193 8 Charles M. Callahan 
•
 ''" ' Sports PubUcity Dept.' Notre Dame, Indiana 

•
 ^^ ^ 176 Hillside Avenue Kochester^ New York 


This must be a necessarily brief column, its 

brevity imposed by the twin' factors of an unest­
pectedly early deadline and the impending Christ­
mas holidays, neither conducive to lengthy prose. 
First of all, to pick up where we left off in the 

preceding chapter, wc want to acknowledge a fe^v 
late questionnaires that arrived after the kickoff. 
In the latest issue ^ve had to restrict Individual 
mention to a sentence or tit'o, and we want to get 
into some of the voluminous detail in the next 
munber. Please bear with us, and, if you have 
not already done so^ send those reunion snapshots 
to JIM A!OTSCHALL. who waits wth Job-like 
patience at the estimable firm of Singer-MotscfaalT 
Corp. (lithographers and printers, just between us), 
10090 West Chicago Blvd., Detroit 4. Jim has-
promised to run off a brochure, if he ever gets 
those pLx, for class distribution. 
By now you should have used up the roll. 

\VALLY GEREND, contracting officer for the .^ r Force at Wright-Patterson base, says he ran into TED FRERICKS, JOHN GALLAGHER, and—of all people—JOE RYAN at the Oliver during the Michigan State week-end. Wonder if that meeting^ was preceded by a matinal pounding on the door? Just wondering, you know. 
WALTER J. SHORT has been named First Vice 

President of the Airline Finance and Accounting 
Conference of the Air Transport Association during^ 
the annual organizational meeting held in New 
York recently. 
WTLLLXM F- AHERN, JR., of Akron has opened another Qoxist shop—this time in Florida. 
NEIL KVASNAK, the old Pittsburgh flash, whose onetime hometown guest for a week later addnssed a letter of thanks to "Dear Brother Goof," is a contract administrator in Cedar Rapids. Neil has three-quarters of a backfield ready for TERRV BRENNf\N, though we seem to recall the old man's, hip as being far more proficient on the hard­wood court. 
BERNIE LcROY is head track and assistant football coach at Menasha High School, Menasha, Wis. He also teaches history and attends Notre­Dame's graduate school in the summer where he is working toward his master's degree. So far as we­knoxv from the recent questionnaire, Berme Is only the second one in the class still in the coaching-ranks. ED SIMONICH is the other, 
JOHN SIcDONALD b travelmg for the valve, division of Thompson Products Co. in CIevdand„ was at the reunion, and has since seen GREG­RICE, DAVE MESKILL, JOHNNY McMAHON> ED DISSER, and TOM ROCHE. He reports that AUGIE BOSSU, the noblest Roman of diem all,. is line coach at Benediction High School in Cleve­land, and «o»v we %vill have to revise that last paragraph. But, on second thoi^ht, the hcU with i t According to John, Augie looks the same (lucky stiff), has a fine wife and four kids. Hi, Ai^e! 
TOMMY WALKER flatters us by returning Hs. questionnaire in green ink. He is assistant geneial sales manager for the Crowley Milk Co. in Bing-
Officiak of Lauriiun, Mich., home oi Gcotgc Gipp, have recently placed the ahove s ^ at the city limits. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, ^^^^ 3T 
Evcrv-one should have something In the ALUMNUS Since then, George and I have met at a luncheon 
before our reunion. of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh and also Had a nice letter from DICK AMES and his in my bailiwick at the Press. 
family. Dick and his uife have sue lovely children ^fore or less by prox>-, JOE GILLESPIE is in and I'm betting he's one of the biggest family men town. That is to say, his brother, Tom, Is now 
F^laVoiuy itv 55/ 
Joifl tiUi 
MARCH OF DIMES 
oy^j
JCUUCOJUJ 
hamton, X. Y., has a pair of boj-s, ditto of girls, and the latest '39crs he has been in touch \Wth -were JOHN \\-HEELER, JACK McAULIFFE, and LU (give me that baton) LaCROIX. Tommy will be remembered as one of GEORGE KEOGAN*s scalw-arts in the da>-s when PAUL NOWAK was urging MIKE CROWE to "use your height, Mike!" 
BOB BREEN is president of the Citizens' Loan Corp., Winnetka, III., and sa>-s he'd like to licar from MIKE FLUEGE. Bob recently ran into BOB 
•GARMODY, HARRY DET2ER, T>KS RY^\N, and JOE McpERMOTT. In Los Angeles he sa%%' MIKE BLESSING who, he reports, is a big automobile tycoon, at least 250 pounds worth. Mike and his wife Marge are extremely cordial to visiting firc­jncn, have clieck cashing facilities, etc, and Bob recommends that anyone \-isiting that area look them up. Mike's m.c training at MATT BIT-TINGER's on Hill St. well equips him for the ios Angeles visitors' bureau. Take a bow, maestro! 
BOB Mca\RRIER, the South Milwaukee pholog jnan and already the proud possessor of six fine subjects, exposed the seventh, ^^cllacl Joseph— eight pounds, \% ounces—on .August 31. Bob and Mary took In the Micliigan State game with BOB DIECKELMAN, now in diargc of the Chicago office of the Pressed Steel Tank Co., and IL\Y SCHLECK of Elmhursl, III., now assistant to the vice-president of Holpoint in Chicago. At tlic game Ray saw PAUL LE.\HY, a pTOfessJonaJ serv­ice representative for a Toledo pharmacy- supply company. ifcCarricr confesses that he is still using the pen he bought at the Notre Dame book­store in 1935, and this will be no comfort to GENE 
KOCHANOWSKI who dc^ca^s on a taster turn­
•over of these things for a living. 
We will have more detailed beard-combings in tlic next issue. Meanwhile, for those who have gone before us, may Our Lady on the Dome lake care of them! 
I 15 yEAR. REUNION VV^jUfSjE 1011:12. 
194 0 Richard Burke ' '^ " 146 Paxson Drive South Bend, Indiana 
JOHN E. WILSON has been appointed Manager of Procedures witliin tlie finance section of the General Electric Company's Locomotive and Car Equipment Dept., Eiic, Pa. 
JOSEPH P. CU.\L\fLVGS, JR., CPA, of Laurel Park, Mount Kisco, N. Y., was a partidpant in a 
•discussion of federal tax problems at tJic 67tli an­jiual meeting of the American Institute of Account­ants in New York City October 17-21. ^^orc tlian 2,500 CPA's and guests from all parts of tlie United States attended the meeting. Joe is man­ager in the general audit department of Peat, Mar^vick, Mitcliell & Co. in New York. 
JAMES E. McSHANE has been appointed Busi­ness >Veck magazine district manager with head­<]uarters in the Chicago office, acconling to Her­anan C. Sturm, Advertising Director of Business "Week. Prior to Joining Business Week, Jim was opiated with Conover Mast Publishing Company on the Detroit office as a salesman in tlic Pub­lications Division. 
A number of the class have not returned the 
•questionnaire as yet. If you lost it WTite mc a letter. Then all of you pick out five names from the roster you now have and write to them for j}Ians at tlie reunion—^No one should miss it!! 
of the class of *40. ROBERT BRADY and his 
ififr Rose wrote they have two sons, Pat and 
Robert, Jr. After postgraduate work at the Uni­versity of Washington Robb is holding down the managing editor's duties at Idalio Falls. Anyone around there write to Robb on reunion arrange­ments. 
JIM BYRNE is administrator at Marquette Uni­
versity. Jim and his wife Kay have two sons, 
Kevin and Br>'an (sounds Irish to me). You men 
in the Milwaukee Alumni area get in touch with 
Jim. He just moved in—2512 X. Frederick. Mil­
waukee. 
PHIL and Mar>- CANALE, 3406 Northxvood Dr., 
Memphis, Tcnn., have a stepson Cran Boycc and 
a daughter Marietta. After scrying from '48-*32 
as Assistant District Attorney General in Memphis. 
Paul was appointed Judge in City Court." If you're 
in trouble down South, you know who to sec. 
J.AMES (SHAD) CANNON and his wife Evelyn 
live in St. Johnbury, Vermont, w-itli their young 
daughter, Marj'. Shad is now Superintendent of 
quality control for Fairbanks-Morso after two years 
with an Aircraft Company in Connecticut and three 
years in the Na\y. ^lad, you ^vill never make it 
if your intentions are only haphazard—Push him 
out for the reunion, Evelyn. 
LT. CENNI and his wile Kathleen have a son, 
J. Mark. The Lt. is a surgeon. 
JOHN and Lucille CICCOLELLA have two 
daughters, Suzanne and little Margaret and a son. 
John. Major John (USAF) would like to hear 
from AL FUNK, DAX'E HYDE, JACK HACKETT 
and LOU URBANSKI. Tlie Major u-as working as 
wage and salar>- adm. when recalled to ser\-ice in 
1951 and served in '5I-'52 in iJic 35th Air DiWsion. 
He has recently been assigned as Commander of 
the 660th Sqd. in Tampa, Fla. (Tliat's where it's 
warm. We just had 1614 indies of snow). 
JAMES P. CLEARY, 17167 Fairfield, Detroit 21, Micliigan, Is President of Clearv'-SIicvh'n Affg. Co., which he founded in 1946 after serving from '4I-'45 in the ^Vrmy. Jim and Kathleen have two sons, James and Robert and a daughter, Kathleen. Jim is bringing his golf clubs to the reunion so you "Pros" have a cliallenge from him. 
HE.NRY COLLINS, 1132 A\-alon Road, Fairmont, 
W. Va.. is a Professor of Law at \\''e5t XHrginia University. He received his LL.B. in 1949 from West Virginia University and his LL.M. In '52 from Ne^*' York University. Hcnr>' saw JOHN HEN­EBRY and JOE CU.MMINGS who gave a lecture to tlie sprlnc Practicing Law Institute. 
GEORGE COSTELLO, Highland Ave., Cr>-stal Lake, Illinois, Is a salesman with the Metro Glass Co. Mr. and Mrs. Costcllo have four cliildren— Kathleen, Michael, Jeanne Arin, and Mar>'. Tlic last '40 man he saw was BOB HOWARD. 
JOE CUM.MIXGS and wife, Marian, live at Laurel Park, ^fount Kisco, N. V. with their three children, Patricia, Ricliard and Maureen. Joe servxd In the Navy from '42-'45 and then served as Accounting Consultant in U. S. Treasury. He is now back with the Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. JERRY SEXTON, CHUCK McCARTHY, Px\T GOR.\L\N, DICK O'MELIA arc some of tlie fel­lows he has seen and DICK LYNG please write Joe about the '55 reunion. He wants to hear from you, 
1941 J°^« ^^'- Pattereon, Jr. 
• '^ ' Pittsburgh Press 
Roto Section 
Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
GEORGE W. FERRICK, recently manager of the New York Life Insurance Company in Rhode Island, has been promoted to manager of the com­pany's West Penn branch office located in the Smilhficld Diamond Building, 415 Smithfield Street, Pittsburgh 6, Pa. 
Seems like the 1941 class is gradually migrating to Pittsburgh. Time was ulien JIM McSVLTY and I more or less held this particular town for ourselves—with a suburban cohort in the person of CHARLIE DILLON, a Butler, Pa., citizen. 
But, as I mentioned In the last isAie, JIM BEHE turned up as a member of our parish in Forest Hills. f\nd more recently—^just a few montlis ago —GEORGE FERRICK set up shop in Pittsburgh. 
Looking over the financial page of the Pittsburgh Press, I saw a picture that looked familiar. I was George. Tlie photo accompanied the announce ment that he had been put in charge of a new office of tlic New York Life Insurance Co. in town. 
a Pittsburgher and can proridc .news about Jo^ ^'ERN ^VITKOU'SKI is not living in Pittsburgh, has been in his family's clothing business in De­troit for more than five years. But his sister was in town the first week of December. And therein, I must extend Vern a public apolog>'. 
I fully intended to call Nadja—who was here to sing in "Rigoletto" with Tagliavini and the Pittsburgh Opera Co.—but \s-as flat on my back with a very unpleasant ailment which was described as **not quite pleurisy but almost." 
I hope that Nadja will return to Pittsburgh so that I can talk to her about the WItkowskI tribe and get the real truth on Vern's life and times since I94I. 
(Vern will be pleased to know that the Pitts­burgh critics like Nadja ver>' much.) 
Report on the Witkowski family, Vern's that Is—V­the children are Ricliard (9), Vickie (7), Angela' (4/4), Christopher (2) and another on the way (or perhaps here by the time this goes into print). 
194 7 AVilliam E. Scanlan 
Chicago 28, Illinois 
JAMES F. COONEY received a Master of Science degree in neurosurger>* from tlie University of Minnesota. 
THOMAS SUELZER has been named to the Commodit>* Trading Dept., of McMullcn Feed .Mills, Fort Wa>-ne, Ind. 
ROBERT W. HARRINGTON Is now a member of the teclinical staff of the Micixuvave Laboratorj*, Hughes Researcli and Development, Culver City, California. He \v-as formerly employed with the Dow Chemical Company. \ 
JERRY HACK came breezing back to Chicago full of Texas stories, especially the fact that LfVRRY KELLY Is doing o.k. In the oil business, at least two Llncolns worth. Jerr\% along with BILL HICKEY and JLM CONWAY, and their wives, flew down to Dallas for the Southern Meth­odist game and were entertained in Houston while down Texas way. DON O'BRIEN, doing well in advertising, also joined In the partv with Larry-Kelly. 
Oa the way back, they had a fine visit with BERNIE CRIM.MINS, who was on hand to get a preview of what his University of Indiana cohorts will be facing come the 1955 season. Bernic was properly impressed. 
DON FIGEL reports hearing from CHARLIE LOHR regularly, and though he couldn't get down to Dallas for the Southern Methodist game, hi-.X father was to call the Lohrs, and wc hope he did. Charlie still lives In Dallas. 
Don came up with other news: JOHN BERGf\N has moved from Park Forest, III., to Glenn Elyn, III., where he has recentlv built a new home JOE NUGENT of .Matteson, III., Is seen com­muting to and from Chicago occasionally, or in church on Sundays. He's still a sleel-man, Inland Steel w-ay. 

JOHN GRIFFIN and Don had lunch not long ago In Chicago. John is married and has one heir and Is currently with a brcwcr>- concern In Miami, already antidpating seeing some of his classmates when ND visits there next season. When Don and his wife were to the Micliigan State game they got to sec MIKE CARR and his wife, they still being in Indianapolis, and visited the DON MARTINS in Toledo and ED HACKETTS In Detroit. TO.M •. DILLON and TOM POWERS are occasional lunch-T eon partners, ilie former a lauyer, the latter cur­rently holding the fort at tlie Chicago Tribune city desk. 
DON HOGAN joined Bill Ilickey and Jerry 
MAWmGEf^'Job Nm! 
MARCH OF DIMES 
Jruuiri/ni 3 3'^ 
J8 Notre Dame Alumnui, January-February, 1955 
Hack in playing host to Larry Kelly when the Matter was in Chicago for the American Petroleum 
. Institute Convention, but as you*ve probably already read, a return engagement has been held in Houston and Dallas. 
Late in the summer ED MANGELSDORF and his wife were up from St. Louis and visited OI>Tn­pia Fields Country Club. \Vc had a swell visit and heard all about the trip to Europe where Ed got acquainted with the international seed business leaders. They also had a taste of English hos­pitality and learned about tlicir way of doing things. Ed reports the St. Louts contingent fine, especially H.\NK DAHM, ED GRIESEDIECK, etc 
Here's a pleasant surprise, a letter from DAN CULLLXANE from ifcthuchcn, N. J.: 
"Just finished reading the latest ND ALUMNUS and enjoyed the column. Thought it about time I dropped in a line (A good idea for other *42ers.) to bring you up to date. I'm married and blessed \vith two children—^Dan and Nanc>-. At present I'm associated with Pfizer Laboratories as special Veter­inary Representative for the State of New Jersey. 
'To you that must seem like a far cry from my Phy Ed days. 
"Managed to get down to Philly for the Pcnn game and there met BILL TOBIN. Bill brought me up to date on many of our classmates and he looked great. That's about it for now, 'Scoop.* Would like to hear of JOE LEIBEN, JOHN JA^VORSKI and TOM HOYER." 
Then back to the midwest, and this time a meeting of tlie East Side Chamber of Commerce in Chicago. Tlicrc I had quite a visit with CHUCK ROGERS and JOE KEENAN, JR., and the latter said he'd run into PAUL LILLIS in New York not so long ago and that Paul is now tngagcd in the advertising business. Tliat's news to us, but wc hope Joe is accurate. Sec, Joe left us at ND, entered the Navy, and after a success­ful Iowa Pre-FIight football career, was trans­ferred to Wisconsin and became quite a whiz there. 

' That's it for now, but let's hear from others— and don't be surprised if you hear from the Scooper one of these days. 
1QA 9 John L. Wiggins 
•Tt; » jj4Q^ Rupley Lane Dallas 14, Texas 
DICK HEISER is operating a jewelry store in Hannibal, Mo. He is married and is the father of three children. 
JOHN RADEMAKER of Marion, Ind., is asso­ciated with his father and brother in the operation of the local Coca-Cola Bottling Company. John and his wife arc the parents of two boys and two girls. 
WILLIAM J. O'NEILL was elected secretary and Vgal ad%Tsor of the Firestone Bank of Akron, Ohio. 

Our first letter came from BILL McGOWAN who wrote that he married the former Lucy Briel on October 2 at Fort Monroe, Va., in St. Mary's Star of the Sea Church. Bill said: "Probably due to the assistance and support of the Notre Dame grads present the wedding ceremony was performed mthout a hitch—FATHER JAMES L. RIZER, '30, performed the ceremony and celebrated the Nuptial Mass. My brother, BOB, '48, was best man and our classmate, JOE E. JACOB and his wife Jean came down from Torrington, Conn., to give their support." Our congratulations. Bill. 
In the Log Chapel, Miss Irma Catherine Boni­celli (formerly on the library staff of the Univer­sity) and MIKE GODFREY were married on September 9 at a 10:00 a.m. Nuptial Mass. The bride was given in marriage by her brother OR­LANDO BONICELLI, Class of *44. Officiating ivas REV. JOSEPH N. GARVIN, C.S.C., of the Mediac\-al Institute, assisted by BROTHER BOM­FACE, C.S.C. ANTHONY J. TRIGLVNI, Class of '54, serv'cd the Mass. Attendants were Miss Ida 
J. Bonicelli (of the University Library staff) and JIM GODFREY. Congratulations, too, to you, Mike. 
Mrs. DON MILLER sends u-ord from San Mateo, California, that their second daughter (fourth child), Jane, arrived July 5. 
There certainly must have been more than a couple of '43 men in the huge 75,304 Cotton Bowl crowd wlien Notre Dame clobbered Southern Meth­odist, however, I could see only two: BILL EARLEY, who was occupied in the press box on the phones during the game; the other gent'was KEITH O'ROURKE who now lives in the Kansas City area where he is a banker-gentleman 
Jarmer. Keith looked in good enough shape to ^igli jump over six feet these many years after track competition. Earley told me that BUCK MUELLNLVN, ex-restaurateur, is doing a bang-up job for one of the big meat packers in Chicago. Bill also said that he saw JACK BARRY at the Iowa game. 
%QAA Geoi^e Bariscillo 
• '^ ^ 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
FARRE J. PEQUIGNEY of 2719 Broadvray, Gal­veston, Texas, has been appointed Teaching Fellow in General Education at Har\'ard University. He received the M.A. (1947) from the University of Minnesota and B.A. (1944) from Notre Dame. 

HARRY D. LA\^RY ^vas elected to the office of Representative in the Illinois General Assembly in the November 2 election. The district (3Ist) which Laver\' will represent is located in the City of Chicago, on the north-side lake front. Three classmates, JLM LLOYD, HARRY YEATES and TOM O'CONNOR, gave Harry \-aIuable assistance in this first and successful try for public office. 
The Michigan State football weekend at Notre Dame seemed like a continuation of our gigantic lO-year reunion last June, on a somewhat smaller scale, however, as a goodly crowd of '44 men got together. Recalling the wonderful time wc had last summer were BEN MAMMINA, ED STEINER, JACK COAKER, JIM PLATT. GRIFF ALLEN, BILL KENNY, BOB FISHER, LARRY GOEBLER, JOE DILLON, VIC DeSIMON, BOB MacDON-ALD, JOHNNY MORRIS, TOM KERRIGAN, JACK THORNTON, JOHN DUFFY, VINCE DUNCAN, and your secretary, among others. It was a rainy, dismal weekend and a squeaker of a game, but the '44ers on hand were high in spirit despite the gloomy conditions. 
"Badin Bog" is fast disappearing and upon tliat hallowed, tradition-steeped ground the new t%vo­stor>* Hammes Shopping Center is beginning to take shape. More construction is also in progress between the new Fisher Hall and the Rockne Memorial where Pangbom residence hall is making its debut. It tt-as homecoming ivcekend and many colorful and ingenious displays decorated the campus. It's al­wa>*s a wonderful "homecoming" when wc return to the site of our happiest years. 
A message from Class "Prexy" JACK THORN­TON: "I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the class as a ivhole for honoring me as president at the reunion election. I assure you I'll do what­ever I can to solidify the membership for an even better I5-ycar reunion." 
One of our vice presidents (Midwest) BEN 

MAMMINA, writes: 
"Sorry I did not answer your letter sooner, but I thought I would wait until after the first Notre Dame game. I hope that I am not too late with the news I have, to make the ALUMNUS dead­line. I attended an invitational before-game lunch­eon at Drc^vr/s Brewery. I talked to TONY GIROLOMI. I did not see anyone from our class at the game (Texas), but had a few drinks wth PAT KYLE. JOE DILLON, JOHNNY KOCK and their wiixs at the Indiana Club. They bad made plans at the reunion to meet at South Bend for this gamc^" 
Our vice president of the South, SAM ^VING, writes about the pep rally planned in Dallas for the SMU game. Alumni in the area can con­tact Sam at 5039 ^Villis Avenue, Dallas. 
And here's a recent letter from AL ORTI ^ 

now a probation officer in Santa Fc, New Mexico: 
"Just looking over the ND ALUSINUS this morning and thought I'd drop a line and say hello. Actually I came out of ND with the class of 1947 but I always look to the class of 1944 as *my* class. Not much to report except that I'm stHl' single and in the kind of work that I always \%'anted. I had the opportunity to get started at a time when the field was just being expanded in New. Mexico and as a result have been able to help promote what I believe are needed reforms. 
"A group of ND alums are Bying to Dallas to see the game and I hope to see some former classmates there. I haven't been able to make it back to the campus since 1947 but I am planning on taking in at least one game this coming [1953) football season.*' 
Some sad news to report, and I know the class joins me in sending sincere sympathy to JACK MORAN and his three children on the loss of Jack's wife. 
t suggested in a recent column that in the larger cities where several '44 men get together at club 
Charles L. Sa^vyer (second from left), college relations supervisor for the Western Electric Co., Chicago, presents to Dean Karl Schoenherr (second from right) of Notre Dame's College of Engineering a teachers* aid display illustrating the parts and operation of the cathode tuhe used in radio relay telephone transmission. Others (left to right) arc Professor Marcel K. Newman, and Professor Harold EUithom. Western Electric is one of 300 bitsiness and industrial firms which send representatives to the Notre Dame campus regularly to intcr>-ie\v seniors and graduate students for employment. 
NotTe Dame Almmnnst Ja*Mttry-Ftbnury, 1X5 
mcctiniis. you mlijlit take a !fw minutes and scribble a joint letter to nie uiiii sunie ncwi. for tins department. 
Coni;ratulations aiiain to GRirF ALLEX u'ho>e total now shows four daughters and a son. 
And that's the latest news from your j.ecrctary's desk ior this time, yiny 1 refonimcnd a Xcu­Year's resolulictn: "RESOLVED that In 1955 I will write at ]ea>l one letter or postcard to the *44 column." 
My sincerest lirst wishes to you and yours for a happy and pro>perfms Xfw Vear! 
lO yEAR-R-EUNfON ^vjUNE lO-n-II 
IQ^ E Al Lcsmcz 
* '^ ^ 122 Tullaiiiorc Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 
JOHN E. S. DOCKWEILER, M.D.. is in the 
practice of dermatoloc\- and s\-philoloir>" at 1930 
Wilshirc Blvd.. Lm Anc'eh-s. Calif. 
JAMES C. .VNDREWS is a medical doctor and 
planning to estal^li^h a private practice of Dcr­
matologv- in Charlottesville, Va. For the major 
portion of the past five years he has been as>o­
ciatcd with the University of Virginia's Hospital in 
residenc>' training. 
JUST FOUR MONTHS AWAY 
It's hard to believe il, but our lO-ycar reunion 
U now jui-t four months away. Our local commit­
tee has been t»<irkini,' bard, and plans are well ad­
vanced to the point that we arc sure we arc all 
going to have one whopper of a reunion. The 
.Munini Oiiice recently sent you a list of all the 
men of liie class. AVhy not drop each of your 
friends a note and find out whether he will be 
tlicre, and encourage th()be vvho don't think they 
can make it to be tiiere. ^Vrite to those whom 
you want to sec tliere and make thein attend-
W'rite to some who may not be on the official class 
list, but wiio attended with us during 19-12 to 1945. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT 
From JOE H.VGGAR: "I received the bulletin 
on tiie class reunion scheduled for June, and I cer­
tainly want to make plans to be there and attend 
this reunion. I would like to know what kind of 
accommodations will have to be made, whether we 
are staying on the campus, or just what the setup 
is. If you uouJd let me know, I sure would Jjke 
to make plans now. 
"I hope we do liavc a good class reunion, and looking at some of ihe names of the fellows who will attend, I know it will be nice seeing lliem aiiain. Plea^e advice me about the room accommo­dations so I can make appropriate plans. Best re-gard-i to all the class." (Dear Joe, I ani choosing to answer this letter in the colunm since the in­fonnation will be g<M)d for the whole class. ^\V hold our reunion on campus, the University re­serving one of the student halls for our class. We will check in on Friday, June 10. lo whatever hall we are as'.igned. Wc pay the University approxi­mately §20 each for the weekend and receive roimi for two nights, a banquet on Saturday night, all the beer and soft drinks needed, a luncheon Satur­day, class caps, badges, a class dinner on Friday night (proliably buffet), and sandwiches, prizes, golf tournament, etc. Perhaps wc may even have the famous bells to wake us—and because of our prestige, 1 have already obtained excused cuts from all classes for the group. In short, Joe, all you have to do is make sure to be there. Begin plan­ning on it now. Sec vou and all the others m June, AL) 
From FR,\NK N.-\SH: "Thanks for the informa­tion concerning the class reunion. I do plan to be there, and am looking forward to seeing many of the fellows again. Regards." 
From JOHN H. TERRY: "I do hope to be able to make tlie reunion in June and would appreciate being advised of the proposed date for the reunion so that I might set aside several days to attend. I will be looking forward to seeing you at the reunion. 
*'If tlierc is anything I can do for the reunion, 
40 Notre Dame Alumnui, January-February, 1955 
do not hesitate lo call upon «ie. With kindest per­.-oiial regards." 
From JIM F.-WRET: ''Looking forward to the reunion in June. Haven't seen the campus since *47. Certainly expecting to be there in June." 
From H.\NK FR.\1LEY: "Received your plea for annual class dues via the .ALUMNUS. Either yotir retpiest or that sterling photo of the Reunion Com­mittee has stirred me. Enclosed—my Sl.OO. Haven't seen anyone of the class for over two years. Read the class news avidly and definitely plan to attend the reunion in June. Might mention to VINCE LOURITA and BILL KLE.\I that I'll be on .\o. 2 tee 10 minutes after I hit the campus: no strokes, all putts holed out. Still with Westinghouse as N!anufacturing Manager of the T\' Picture Tube Plant here in Elmira, New York. On October 18tb Peggv' and I added a fifth daughter to the family. No ND students as yet, but St. Mary's better figure on some expansion about 1966. See you in June. M. and a siveJ] job as class secrctaiy and promatcr." 
From JOE L.\UCK: "This has been on my mind for sL\ months and at last I'm getting down to writing the check. I am definitely planning to be at the reunion this June. For the last six years I've been an engineer with Reilly Tar and Cliem­ical Corp. and this past year have been traveling ainrmg our plants on a general improvenu-nt pro­

Members of the Four Horsemen Merc guest School football banquet recently. Bob Wood, 
gram. This h;is brought nie into contact with sev­
eral of our classmates since our plants arc located 
from Minneapolis to Mobile, from Seattle to New­
ark. Two of these six years were spent with the 
Navy where I was recalled to ser\'c on a mine­
sweeper and a destroyer as Chief Engineer. I';/ 
atlendi/ig all ^D home games this season so far. 
hope to meet others at the North Carolina and Southern California ganu-s. At any rate, I'll see them all at the June reunion, which I am looking 
for^vard to." 
From JOHN L.\VERY: '-Received your latest mailing which ctuitained the inforntation on the reunion. I can see from all the plans that it will be a good affair. Since you asked for a show of I:ands oi those who intend lo attend. I am uriting to let you know I will be among those present. I have limch occasionallv with BUD GOTTxV and BILL WADDLNGTON and both have said they will also attend. By the way. Bud Is not on the chxss sheet which was .sent out, nor is BOB ER­KLN'S. They both got BNS degrees In 1945 as did all the RO's. Tlu-Ir addresses arc below. Encloseil are class dues for Bud Gotta and Bill \\'addingt<<i\ which they asked nu- to -.end on. Good luck on the reunion and don't hesitate to call on me if you need help.'" {Dear John, Bud Gotta and Bob Erkins are listed as '47, but as everyone else, are more than 

 speakers at the Monongahcia A''allcy High  '39, president of the Mon. Valley Sports­
writers, was responsible for the affair. Alunmi in that area attended the banquet. L. to R.: Jimmy Crowley, Elmer Laydcn, Don Miller and Harrj- Stuhldreher. 
WL'lconii'd ill our class, I liavc mailfd tlitiii info 
so tliey can act on it. Rest rcyards, Al.) 
From BILL MOORE: "Nice to lu-ar from you 
and I hope ynu get a chance to get to l!ic chy for 
J>mch some day. I do not get to Long Island, but 
once in a while I go out to Garden City. When I 
go out there I am usually tied up all day with 

the Long Island Lighting Company, but if I ever 
get free early I will give you a ring. Played golf 
a couple of weeks auo with DAN O'DON'N'ELL 
and RUDY ANDERSON- Dan is out of tlie Na\y 

again and is clerking in Trenton, New Jersey. 
Rudy was with Johns-^L^nvilIe but is leaving there 
to go wiih Johnson & Johnson in New Brunswick. 
New Jersey. .Am making all plan> lo go to the 10­

year reunion in June. Hope lo work out a deal 
with our Chicago oflicc so I can "free-load'' on 
the Company. If I can give you a hand in any 

way on tlic work, or on planning for the reunion, 
h't me know. Will be looking fi>r yon when you 
yet (o New Vork.'" 
From EDWARD I„^ROCQUE: "We have a brand 

new addition to our family. In October. Edward #\. Ill joined us. weighing 8 pounds. 2 ounces. Best regards." {Congratulations to you, Ed. And to Marilvn. Hope to sec vou at the reunion. Best of luck. Al.) 
MORE P.\Y THEIR DUES 
.\ few more of the men paid their dues since 

our last printing, and I want to thank them for 
their assistance in this class function—the only 
money wc have available for such expenses as 
printing, mailings, and a relirenienl fund for the 
Secrelar>'.'J So thank vou for vour class spirit and 
for vour cooperation: BUD GOTTA, JI.M FAV­
RET, II.VNK FRAILEV, BILL WADDINGTON, 
GORDON FORESTER, JOE L.-\UCK, BOB SNEE. 
UHO U7LL BE THERE? 
The real deluge of replies to "WHO" will attend the 10-year reunion has yet to be received. How­ever, sufficient members have answered lo the aflirmallve to form the nucleus t)f a list of tlio^e who wilt attend. Why not check to see if your name is there, and if not. let mc know right aw.iy so that I can count on your coming. And if the name of a friend is missing, why not drop him a note and encourage bini to come. We want ihc WHOLE gang there for that's what makes a re­imion. Those who have already signified that they are connni; are as follows: 
JAMES ^ LAMB, FRANCIS GLTNEV, RANK RAYNE. JIM RETTER, CLARKSON FISHER, JIM DUGAN. CHUCK WOLF, JOE MENEZ, JACK KE.ARNEY (?), JIM CL\'NES, HARRY WALTERS, JOHN O'ROURKE, ERNIE RAUCH­ER, P.AUL HANN.AG.AN (?), MIKE COFFEY (?), JOE O'KEEFE. ART ANDERSEN, DICK LEITE, BUD MALONE. FRED VICIC. JOHN RINELL.A {?), FRED MAURER, JR.. JIM .AN­.^REWS, HANK FR.AILEY, JOE I-AUCK, JOE HAGGAR. 
Also .MEL\TN HOMER (?). BILL CLEMENCY {?), DICK YOUNG {?), DAVE CARTWRIGHT, BOB SNEE. JACK TREACY, VINCE I^AURITA, AL LESMEZ (and h-.w!), CHARLES LESLIE, JIM SCHAEFFER, KIER.AN RYAN (Brother). BOB GRIFFLV, BOB RIORD.AN, JI.M PARIS, TOM BERGIN, FRANK DEL.ANEY, JR., R.AY KOPITUK, JOHN RYAN, JOHN CONNELLY (Rev.). BILL GRANT, CHUCK SARTORE, J. EDWARD FAUST, ROBERT C. RE.ARDON, JOE LONG, JOHN L.AVERY, FRED NASH. 
GEORGE DESPOT, JOHN I^AWSO.N, LARRY NOOK, FR.\NCIS MARTIN, ELMER GILLES­PIE, HARRY RYAN, BOB CRONIN, BILL KLEM (local clniniiaji). KEN KEHL, TOM CLIFFORD, JR., HA.\K SLAMIN, BRYCE SMITH, BY MAR­TIN, CLIFF MARKS, D.AVE CHAMPION, BOB ^.IADDF..\, LOU UAUTH, JR., BOB LUKE, TER­RY ^\•ILSON, JOHN MEYER, J. D. USINA, JOHN TERRY, BOB THO.MAS, HARRY BER­LINER, BILL .MOORE, JOHN T. TERRY, JI.M F.AVRET, BUD GOTTA, BILL ^VADDINGTON. 
(?) means they are not sure yet. 

Send in your reply today, ^\'e want to know who is conu'ng. BILL KLEM and his local committee arc doing a first-class job on all the details of the reunion, and they can't plan for YOU, If they tlon'l know you're coming. So send me your ques­tionnaire or a note telling mc your decision today. S'long for now. . . . Al, 
1 Od A Jack Teniae, Jr. 
• ^^ " 35 Husrhcs St., Apt. 2 Hartford, Connecticut 

V DR. ERNEST G. BROCK, research associate at the General Electric Laboratory, has been In­vited to present a paper before the regular monthly meeting of the .Vew York Society of Electron MIcroscopIsts. 
1QA T Janics E. Murphy " '^ ' 1706 Churchill Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
RALPH JOHNSON is employed in the sales 

department of radio station KXEO in Mexico, 
Missouri, and lives at 12 Marine Drive In that 
citv. He would like to hear from R.AYMOND 
KINGERY, WAYNE JOHNSO.N, VINCEN-T LIER­
.\LAN and JI.M MUSSELMAN. 
ED MUELLER Is a faculty member, engaged 

in traffic research, at Vale's Bureau of Highway 
Traffic In New Haven. Conn. He Is now married 
to Pegg%- Wet7el, formerly of Prairie du Clilen, 
\VisconsIn. Ed savs he hears recularlv from 
.MORGAN CARTIER who formerly taught elec­
trical cngiricfring at .Voire Dame. 
Men of '47 returning to the campus for a visit 

will see a new siatne of "Notre Dame—Our Lady 
of the L'niversity" In the circle. The limestone 
figure was blessed in ceremonies on December 8 
ciimx\ing Notre Dame's orhserx'ance of the Marian 
Year. Sidewalk supernileiulents will also want to 
inspect Pangborn Hall, now under constnjctlon be­
tween FI>her Hall and the Rockne Memorial, and 
a new shopping center (bookstore, bowling alleys, 
etc.) which so(m will open for business in old 
Badin bog. 
Postcards to m<)re than thirty classmates, who 

moved to difTcrcnl cities in recent months, brought 
the foilowimi news: 
PAUL .AMES Is as.vociated with .Alford Cartons 

Co., a division of Continental Paper Co. The 
.Ames family—wife Ruih. two-year-old Paul. Jr.. 
and Elizabeth, born March 29—lives in Closler. 
-New Jersey. 
DICK liURNS is operating his own firm, the 

Beloit (Wis.) Research and Development Co. He 
Is an amateur radio enthusiast (W9NVC) on the 
75-meter band and would like to contact other 
ND "ham^."' 
BOB P.AVLI.V, now living In River Edge. N. J., 

is eng.iged in >ale> development work for GrasscllI 
Chemicals, a DuPont subsidiary. Since graduation 
he has worked fur the DuPcnt company In Cleve­
land. U'ilmington and now .Vcw York City. The 
Pavlins have two sons and a daughter. 
JACK PEARL operates the Chevrolet Oldsmobjle dealership in Paris, Missouri. Jack is the father i>f two tLiunhters. 
HO.MER (HAL) AVALTERS is an auditor for 

F. H. I'eavey and Co., a Minneapolis grain and feed concern. Hal served with the First Marine Division in the Korean conflict. He has two sons and a daughter. 
Class president SAM ADELO was admitted to the Indiana bar on December 8. Sam, who lixs been teaching In ND's niodern language depart­ment, is also preparing for his Ph.D. exams at Northwestern. 
R.ALPH SIMON and SAM ADELO were In the same outfit during Reserve Summer training at Fort Le)ui.-ird WiH)d. Missouri. 
E.MIL SLOV.AK Is now living In Frisco, Colo­rado. He pKayed In the Old Timers' game at ND last Sprlni". 
ALPREDO ORTIZ Is the district probation officer in Santa Fc, NL-W Mexico. 
ED H.AMEL Is a re.-carch chemist at DuPont's i-h-ctrocht-mical ilvparinimt at .Niagara Falls, N. Y. .After leaving ND. he received his Ph.D. in chem­istry* at tiie University of California. Ed Is mar­ried to the former Frances Welch, a graduate of the University of Niagara nursing SCIHMII. 
GVS V.ARLVS is plant cmjineer at the Beech Bottom Works of the Wheeling (W. Va.) Steel Corporation. Gus has three sons. 
JOHN McCARVEL i> an attorney with the U.S. Fidelity and Guaranty Co. in Helena. Montana. 
BOB ROSENTHAL, a Navy lieutenant at the Brunswick. Maine, naval air station, spent most of ihc summer and fall on Mediterranean duty. He expects to be released from the service in June. 
BILL BUDD is In the .Army's scientific and pro­fessional program and is stationed at Frankford Arsenal in Philadelphia. Before entering the ser\­ice he was a research engineer with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. 
Your clxss secretary had an enjoyable visit with D.AVE KORTY in Lafayette, Ind., In mid-October while attending a meeting of college publicity people. Dave has been with the Lafayette Loan and Trust Co. since irradiiation. .Also visited with ED SWEE-NEY and his family al Seaford. -N. V., In June. Ed. associated with Newhousc and Hawley. insura:ice undL-rAvriters, visited the campus and the JIM MURPHYS in South Bend later in the 
summer. 
194 8 Herman A. Zitt 
• '^ ^ 126 Farmside Drive Dayton, Ohio 
ARTHUR ST.ATUTO has been named line coach at Somcr\'ille High School In Sonicrville, Mass., and his team at present is runner-up for the ^^assa­chusclts Slate Title. .Arthur hails from Saueus, 
Mass. 
BOB SCHAEFER has been transferred to Al­bany, N. Y., as the manager for Otis Elc\-ator Co. 
1 04 9 JoJin P- V/aiker 
• '^ ' 826 Wins Street Elgin, Illinois 
D.ANIEL SAN'TOSUOSSO has been appointed a permanent teacher in the Med/ord School System in Medford. Mass. 
.Mrs. VLNCE-NT C. A. SCULLY, JR., was the subject of a fealtire article recently In the Pitts­burgh Press. Mrs. Scully, wife of Vincent who re­ceived his commerce degree in 1049 and law in 1930. is an artist of great talent. 
JOHN G. S.MiTH, 1072 Thacker St., a native of Des Plaines, was recently appointed assistant state's attorney general to fill the vacanc>- caused by the resignation of George W. McGurn, who has been named attorney for the Illinois toll road commis­sion. His appointment will become cfTcctlve Nov. 
1. It wxs announced by .Attorney General Latham Castle. Smith and his wife, the former Jo .Anne Stanton of Park Ridge, have a son, Carey, 8. 
a yEAR R.EUNION JUNE 1011-11 

IQC n Richard F. Hahn 
• '^^^ 5440 No. AVinthrop Chicago, Illinois 
JOHN M. GALL.AGHER Is working for Ross-ford Ordnance, Toledo, O. His address is 2535 Parkwood Ave., Toledo. 
ARTHUR B. CURR^\X, JR., w ^ Deraocrtiuc candidate for Monroe County Surrogate Court Judge (Rociiester, N. V.). No neu3 on whether .Art was elected or not. 
JOSEPH J. ARCHIBALD, advertising manager of Jefferson Electric Company. Bellwood, Illinois, has been appointed manager of consumer products for the companv. He resides at ni 2 Linden .Avenue. Oak Park, 111. 
.-Vs I WTIIC this month's summarv' of news. .Advent is just starting and therefore Christmas trill soon be here. I know that since the xVLUMNUS will not be out till after the first of the year that these Seasons greetings will be a little late. I would Itke to extend the greetings that this Year 1955 will be your happieat and that God's blessings will follow you and yours everywhere. 
Speaking of this year being the happiest I must say that you can help make it that way by attending the Reunion come June. .As you might well guess the success of a reunion depends on how-much of the class returns, not just the number, but finding most of the gang you lived with five years ago all in one spot and ha\ing a brew or two over old times. I was down to the Michigan State game this fall and you should see the changes —the Student Union, the Fine -Arts Building, Mor­ns Inn, the new UND Radio Station studio and all of tiie old memories of Walsh, Sorin, the grotto, ct al. 
Sometime last November you received a list of all your classmates as the alumni office shows their listing. It is important to the success of the reunion that the details be sent to one and all and to do tliis we need the correct address of everyone. I am sure that you know a number of address changes that would bring our records up to date so just jot them on the card, giving your full name, class, and new address. Thanks for the trouble, your action may bring one of the boys vou'd like to see down to the campus on June iO, 11 and 12. 
i^^otre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 41 
News is short Uiis month so: JACK NUSSKERN 
leads off the news with "Alter two years of coach­
ing in Bay City, Miclugan, and t^vo years out of 
coaching, I am noA\' coaching football and track at 
Scwicklcy High near Pittsburgli, Pa. In addition 
to our son Mark ^vho was bom five years ago in 
South Bend, my wife Joan and I Iiave a nine-
month-old son named Kevin. I would welcome news 
of old friends: 4 Swan View Drive, Swan Acres, 
Pittsburgh 37, Pa. 
"Rcgarding the XD 'I*ads,' I spoke at length 
to JOHN SIXKO\'TrZ last Afarch when he brought 
his York High scliool basketball team to Pitt's 
fieldhouse to play for the State Catliolic cham­
pionship. At tlic prc-gamc party before the ND-
Pitt game in October I met AL LESKO, ED FAY, 
JOE NUCCI, SAM SOLOMON'. I correspond 
more or less regularly with PAUL BOULUS who 
is coaching up in Detroit, JOHN SINKOVITS 
told me that JACK McMAHON of the *49 class 
is coacliint; 20 miles from York, Pa. I sa^v 
BERXIE POWERS at the rally and JIM GILLIS 
the next day at the game." Thanks for the news, 
Jack. Lets hear from you again. 
BILL O'CONNELL's wife Edith dropped us a 
line giWng a little insight into what he has been 
doing. (Do wish more wives would wTite me and 
let us know what the class is doing. . . . Besides 
I love to see my wife's curiosity when I get a 
letter In a feminine handwriting.) Edith writes the 
following: Bill married Edith E. Gasan on June 
14, 1952 and the following March they %vcre blessed 
u-ith Michael Patrick; son number two is expected 
next siunmer. Since graduation Bill has worked 
for Eastman Kodak Company in Rocliestcr, N. Y., 
and is a tcclmical advisor of the Roll Film Dcpt. 
Some of the other news that the O'Connclls write 
is "EDWARD KELLY of Chicago was married 
this summer. ^Ve were sorry to have missed his 
\vedding but moving sent his invitation astray. 
FRANK STERNIT2 and his wife are in Europe 
where Frank is working for Uncle Sam. JIM 
FISHER was married last summer. Bill would en­
joy hearing from any of his friends, among them 
BILL SPENCER, JIM DOYLE, JOHN RENTSCH­
LER and MR. KELLY, etc His address is 70 
Rand St., Apt. 3, Rochester, N. Y. Bill says that 
he will be seeing all who come at the reunion. . . ." 
DON MURPHY and I were down for the Michi­
gan Stale game and ran into PAUL BUCHYNSKY. 
He looks great and is still witli Jones & Laughlin 
Steel in Cleveland. I understand that BILL 
DENNIS was about that weekend but I didn't 
get to see him. 
H'ell, that's it for this issue. More news next lime if YOU write. 
1QC1 Robert J. KJingenberger I Tit I J7J7 pc^bcrton Drive Fort AVayne, Indiana 
DICK KOSMICKI is now a staff member of the Christophers and is working with Father James Keller in New York City. He is ^vriting publicitj­and aiding in rescardi. Dick was formerly a mem­ber of the Patriot-Neus in Ilarrisburg, Pa- He was on tlie sports staff and was cited by tlic Penn­sylvania Newspaper Publishers Assoaation several months ago for a feature story on a baseball um­pire. The stor>* was judged by out-of-state news­paper editors. 
ED KOVAL wTitcs from Camp Detrick where he is stationed with Uncle Sam. Address him as Pvt. E. J. Koxal, US 55 486 176. 9766tli TSU, Cm. C, Camp Detrick, Frederick, Maryland. Ed has been in service since last May 18. 
AL ^HLTNER (Apt. 101, 1352 Kenilworth Ave­nue, Lakewood 7, Ohio) proudly writes that co­incidental with his first wedding anniversary' was a promotion to tlie position of full Manufacturing Department Supcr\'isor in the Cleveland Plant of duPont. The promotion was effective October 1. I'm sure we all join in congratulations to Al and in wishing him continued success. In his new job Al has sl\- different operations oindcr his jurisdic­tion. While in Wilmington last Marcli, Al saw DICK EVERETT (more about him later). 
LEE BROWN (736 Wollasion Avenue, Newark, Delaware) is in residence at the University of Dela­ware finishing up a thesis for Iiis M.Ch.E. degree intending to go on for his doctorate and fighting it out with his draft board wliicli has classified him lA (which has been appealed, of course). Lee reports he has managed to scrounge one meal apiece from JOE GALLOWAY, JOHN MILEWSKI, BILL McNALLY and AUGIE GENTILUCCI ('50) and reports for the benefit of any other roamcrs that their drives are wonderful cooks. At A.LCh,E­mcetings, Lee reports seeing GERRY GRIESMER (*50), GENTILUCCI and BARRY FLORENCE (*50). Lee and DICK EVERETT still sail togctlier 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jaauary-Febritaryt 1955 
and have had BILL and KAY ^fcXALLY afloat 
with them on one occasion, 
JOHN CARP is also-one of Uncle Sam's bo>-s— 
no^v Pvt. Jolin Carp. US 52 357 423, 9710th TSU, 
Army Chemical Center, Maryland. John spent some 
time at Fort Riley, Kansas, testing officers hearing 
and ordering glasses (for the ears?). 
JOE EGER (Apt. 19 B, Vetwlle, Notre Dame, 
Indiana), finished bis tour of active duty with the 
Na\->* last May and spent the summer working for 
Spencer Chemical Company at its Henderson (Ky.) 
plant. 
DICK EVERETT (1434 Prospect Drive, K>-nl>-n, 
Wilmington 3, Delaware) took over Lee Brown's 
old fortress when Lee left Wilmington for Newark. 
Dick is still u-ith duPont currently doing a con­
siderable amount of liaison work between the En­
gineering Department and the Organic Chemicals 
Rcsearcli Department. 
JOE GALLOWAY (222 Oak Street, Binghamton, 
New York) left duPont on September 1 to become 
a production engineer with the Ansco Dirision of 
General Aniline and Film Corporation in Bingham­
ton, New York. Joe and Jean arc the proud par­
ents of Joseph Cyril, bom July 31—the first grand­
child in either Joe's or Jean's family. 
WALT KOSYDAR (504 Strand, Manhattan Beach, California) is still at the EI Segundo rcfin­er>- of Standard Oil (California) but as his draft dcfcrrocnt expired in October he did not expect, at tlie time of u-riting in late September, to be there nirucli longer. 
TO.M McNAMARA (157 South Greenwood, Pala­tine, Illinois) is back in the Fabrics and Finishes Division of duPont—process and Methods Group at tlic Chicago plant—after two years in the Air Force. 
JOHN MILEWSKI (31 StraUimorc Terrace, Sad­dle River Township, Fairlawn, 'Sew Jersey) is still at Reaction Motors, whicli is now affiliated with Matliicson Chemical and OHn Industries, doing materials engineering—and Js a proud father. Anne Lenore was bom on October 1, 1953. 
ANDY FAIRLIE (2M7 Lincoln Street, Lorain, Ohio) announces the arri\-al of Tommy last April wIiD with sister Kathy gives Andy and his wife a fine family. Andy is still witli Goodricli Chemical and now in "product development." 
1 95 7 Harry L. Buch 
• ^^-^ 309 Fisher Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
ROBERT J. SHAVER Is now working as a parasitologist for the Dow Chemical Company. 
P\T". ROBERT E. FRUIN III has been as­signed to the Chemical and Radiological laborato­ries at the Army Chemical Center, Md. It is lo­cated 25 miles north of Baltimore. 
DR. DAVID MOSIER has completed the pedi­atric internship at Johns Hopkins University. He 
then spent 12 montlis in a pediatric assistant resi­
dentship at the has Angeles Children's Hospha} 
and at present will be in Pediatric Pathology dur­
ing the current year at the some hospital. During 
the next t^vo years David plans to work with Di^ 
Lawson Wilkins at Johns Hopkins. He and Mrfr 
Afosier have a daughter 3'/2 and a son I'A. 
VVr. RrVLPH L, MONTRESOR has been as­
signed to the Inspection and Equipment Agenc>* as 
an electrical engineer at the Army Chemical Cen­
ter, Marj-Iand. 
1 9R3 Eugene D. Fanning 
Fanning Chc\ToIct, Inc. 
415 West State Street 
Geneva, Illinois 
WALL/\CE F. NEYERLIN has announced Uie 
opening of his lau- oHice at 102 Lincoln Way West, 
Mishawaka, Ind. 
Once again the closs of *53 has been most helpful 
in our getting the early spring of '55 edition outu_ 
even though at this writing it is but a few days 
from Christmas of *5t. 
Received a nice long letter from ED BUCZKIE­WICZ who is stationed in Pusan, Korea. Ed makes mention that he ran into MIKE DOYLE in Pusan sometime in August. He goes on to say that since he arrived in Korea, he has been assigned as the head of the "Korean Labor Office" in controlling, supcr\^ing, utilizing and firing all Korean labor that are employed in his unit of 563 Koreans. Ed also mentions that **HUCK" O'NEIL is at Parks AFB in California at Air Police School. JIM WEITHMAN is at Ocean Side, California in train­ing wiUi the Marines. JIM "DRIBBLER" GIB­BONS is an MP in the heart of New Orleans. MORT KELLY is at Camp Lejeune in the capacity of a spedal Scr\icc Officer. ST^\N STASCH is a project engineer in the army at Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. ^ 
Received a note from JOHN STOELLER %vho & now working for bis M.B-A. at UCLA after touring France last year on Fulbright grant at the Univer­sity of Naac\-. He also passes on the news that he took the big step witli the former Mary Ann Owens on October 23. John tells us that "SNAKE" S.MITH is due to be released in a few montlis after spending some time in Dachau, Germany. 
DICK GILL was married to Miss Anna Hayes on September II in Washington, Indiana. Tliey are now living in Denver, Colo., where Dick is stationed at Fitzsimmons Army Hospital. 
ENS. DON KINNEY drops a note saying that he has just finished a tour in Alaska as Officer­in-charge of Attn Island. 
PAUL RUPP dropped me a Christmas card and mentions that he will be spending the Yuletide this year as a resident of Guam. I wonder if he will 

The Class of 1925 got oil to a fast and successful start on reunion planning next June with a representative number of alumni and their guests attending the class after-game cocktail party on the North Carolina weekend. A Jist of those who registered is included in a story on page 11. In the group (left to right) are: James E. Armstrong, aliunni secretary, Don Miller, class president, John Hurley, class secretary, John W. Courtney, vice-president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and Bill Cemey ivho ivill be working on arrangements with the local committee for reunion weekend, June 10, 11 and 12, 1955. 
lose that soutliL-rn accent over there with those natives. t And from the great romancer of the Midwestern A?ea and now of Greece comes word from TOM REEDY and cute Ji'ilJe Dedc who arc expcctinj a third on Januar>- 24. Tom writes that they arc ver>- well pleased in their new home for the next year and a half. The people are wonderful, the atmosphere is terrific and there is vcr>- little work tn do. BILL CiVREV of the class of '51 gets into Kifissia, Greece, where Tom and Dedc are and has become quite a regular dinner guest. 
JACK AVH.VLEX writes from French Morocco 
where he and his wife arc residing while Jack 
ser\es out the last of his Air Force duly. 
JOHN OTOOLE was released from the Army 
just prior to his embarking for overseas duty due to 
a severe heart murmur. Shortly thereafter he began 
work at the Chicago Board of Trade and then 
proceeded to bcciinK.* engaged to Miss Mar>' Lou 
Hastens. 
/, Received a note from BILL KILMINSTER who 
is now in Voiigdongpo. Korea with tlie army. He 
makes mention tliat he has yet to run into any XD 
boys but that he did have basic with PAT DREW 
and NEIL 0*REGAN' at Camp Gordon, Georgia, 
and with VIC RILEY at Fort Eiistis, Virginia. 
SF^-ATOR GEORGE HIGGINS writes from the 
Marine Base in Miqml, Florida, where he is sta­
tioned with his wife, the former Betty Sullivan. 
George says that he will be out in September and 
then it*s back to "Kansas Citv. Krogers. and the 
Athletics." TOM FOOTE, RAY DITTRICH and 
AL KOHAXOU'ICH are also with Hi'g in Special 

Ser\'iccs in Miami. Hig also goes to pass on a lot 
of information about the whereabouts of some of 
the other gang. . . . BOB SCH^VFER is in Law 

School in Kansas Universitv. . . . GENE MUEX­
lER is in California. . . . BUD AtASS.MAX is sta­
tioned at Great Lakes. . . . D.VVE FLYXX is 

.iboard a Seaplane Tender in Norfolk. . . . JACK 
l^RITZLEX is in the Na\y at San Diego and TO.\I 
O'BRIEN is selling "The Fonvard Look in Auto­
mobiles" to support his two kids in Indianapolis. 
. . . BOB DREY is attending Law School at Drake 
in Des Moines. Thanks. George, for the information. 
BOB HOODECHECK is now in the army down 

at Fort Hood. Texas. He has a most prominent 
p<)sition in that he is the private secretary of 
General Holmes. 
EXSIGX BURXY HESTER writes from the deck of the U.S.S. Hornet that is now lying off of Frisco Bay after loiirJHg Lisbon. Ronic, Singapore, Hong Kong. Manila. Pearl Harbor and manv other points. BOB TRIPEXY is also on board as Chief Disbursing Olficer. While in Japan he ran into EDDIE Slca\RTHY, CHARLIE LOCHTEFELD, JERRY O'COSyOR, JIM FLOOD and LEXNIE BUTLER at the "O " dub in Yokosuka where all the Geisha girls become famous. On his way to 'v*>edunk one day he ran into the illustrious JOHX CAMPxVGXONE who is a Marine supply officer. Burnv is also expecting sometime in the month of Januar>-. He reports that JIM HUTCHINSON was recently married to Miss Peggy Curtin of St. Mary's. 
That just about does it for now, I hope you will 

all keep dropping notes and letting us know your 
whereabouts. 
May I take this opportunity to extend a belated 

(The ALUMNUS goes to press Jan. 4) Merry 
Christmas and a Most Happy New Year to all. We 
will be thinking and praying for eacli and every 
one of you. 
11OC^ Ens. Gcori;c A. Pflaum ' ^' ^ U.S.S. Guiiston Hail, (LSD-5) c/o Fleet Post Office S San Francisco, California 
JOHXXV L.\TTNER plans to enlist in the 

.Army in January*. He has been playing with the 
Pittsl)urt;Ii Steelers this past Fall. 
BRI.VN H. WILLIAMS, MATTHEW F. KULUZ, 

PHILIP C. HIGGINS and MICHAEL LEWIS are 
attending St. Louis University Medical School. 
Three graduates of '54 are now employed as en­gineering trainees at Hamilton Standard, dinslon of United Aircraft Corporation, Windsor Locks, Conn. They are EDWARD D. BREWER, BS in Mechanical Engineering, of the division's jet engine starter group; JOHN P. FALLOX, BS In Aero­nautical Engineering, of the aerodynamics group, and RAYMOXD E. OXOFRIO, BS In Chemical Engineering, of the materials section of the qual­ity control department. ^ I'm a little short on news this month, but JOHN fc(\CKLEY's note regarding my quickly approach­ing deadtinit spurs me on to pass on what infor­mation I have. Hope lltal mail is a bit more 
frequent in the next few months so that the next 
issue will be lopsided with news of '54's. It's up 
to you so let's hear from you. 
Way out here amidst the rigors of the Japanese 
winter I get a postcard from ENS. GENE HOW­
LEY who is in flight training at Pensacola and 
reports that *'the chow and quarters arc good— 
tlic only bad thing is the weather, it is a bit too 
warm for my Minnesota blood." Gene is with 12 
other *54's from Notre Dame: L.-\RRV ASH, JJM 
BUCK, DICK EHR, TO.M LINDSAY, DICK 
MAYER, DICK MILOTA, JI.M NORTON, JOE 
PIKELL, JERRY POST, JACK RIVA, and BILL 

SIPES. Gene's address Is BOQ 661, Km. 252, XAS 
Pensacola, Fla. 
Had a long letter from JIM BOULEY, who re­ports that he Is In personnel school at Camp Chaffee, Arkansas, by \irtuc of a beckon by his draft board last summer. Jim worked for the Burroughs Corporation before his "number" was up and plans to continue with them after he se­cures his tour. He reports that fellow graduates going by the names of DICK COLLONTON, DICK COBB, GUY MACINA and GEORGE BOEHM were also at Chaffee for basic training with him. 
Jim also passed on the following information: BILL CWANAUGH will be married on February 12th to Mar>- .Ann Sampe of Chicago while on leave from his present dutv station, the U.S.S. R.ickbridge. APA-228, c/o FPO, New York, N. Y. 
DICK xVNTON Is in stenography school at Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis. 
KEN BOUL.\Y and BOB FRIES were both married in August, no message on the better half of those arrangements. 
HUGH BRAY is In Highland Park, California, ^vorking as an assistant buyer for a woman's clothing store. 
"BUNKY" CONNORS was sitting out a call from the Marines in his home town of Kansas Citv from last reports. 
EXS. BOB KIGALI Is stationed aboard the 

U.S.S. LSM-HS, c/o FPO, San Francisco, Califor­nia, which operates from her home port In Guam. Tlianks for the news, Jim; let's hear from you again. 
I managed a. trip to school last season for the Purdue game which seems so long ago now that I feel as if I should have taken notes on who I 
saw and what they *vcrc doing. 
Spent some time there with BILL REYNOLDS 

and DAVE FOY \vho were killing time imtil Undc 
Sam called his favorite "second Johns" into the 
fold. Bill reported to Fort Bcnning, Ga., in 
November and Dave will leave in March. 
Also ran into PAT FOLEY, JACK ROSSHIRT, 

TI.M O'HARA, LARRY CORBITT, JOE JOYCE, 
ED BRODERICK, PAT O'MALLEY and PAUL 
KRAUSE ^vho are all continuing their legal studies 
on the campus. Also saw ED LEWIS who is finish­
ing his law work at Lovola of Chicago. 
DUKE RAXK and BOB SWANSON arc teamed 

up again uhile contiautng in graduate English 
work at X'otrc Dame. 
CHRIS MALONE has finished an extended tour 

in WcstPac on the U.S.S. Montague, AKA-98, c/o 
FPO, San Francisco, California. He caught the 
ship in Yokuska, Japan, and spent eight days there 
before they steamed back to the states. 
MIL T BEAUDINE has become Notre Dame's gift to San Diego's College for Women while wait­ing for his ship to get unmlred from its own coffee grounds and head to Japan come next April. He is on the U.S.S. Diachcnko APD-I23, c/o FPO, San Francisco, California. 
BOB WRIGHT joined us on the west coast by Wrtuc of being stationed on a cargo ship out of San Diego after he finished CIC School in No­vember. 
JIM BOESEN received his commission at Quan­tlco in October and is presently attending basic school there. His address is: 3rd TRNG. B.V.. BAScoI, MCS, Quantico, Virginia. 
Sorry that's all I have to report, but the news hasn't been flowing in. I sent out 30 postcards last month and only one reply across the boards so far. Surely wc can do better than that. Ho\v about a hand on gathering up some facts and fig­ures for this dope sheet. Those of you in Uncle Sugar's employ can certainly spare a half hour of **turn to" to drop a Uac this way. I've seen it done; matter of fact, I'm doing it now. Best I close, however, because liberty call is about to go. 
Here's wishing you every success and counting on hearing from you. 
IT'S STILL TIME TO MAKE YOUR NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION 
even if the . . . 

13fh Annual Alumni Fund Did Begin on January 1, 1955 
Please send your annual gift to: University of Noire Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Father Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C., celebrated his Golden Jubilee in the priesthood. Assist­ing at the Mass in Sacred Heart Church were: (L. to R.) Father Joseph Maguire, C.S.C.; Father Charles J. McCarragher, C.S.C.; Father Broughal; Father Leo R- Ward, C.S.C; 
and Father Theodore J. Mehling, C3.C., Provincial. . 
Notre Dame Alumnus, January-February, 1955 
The Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dame 
Jan. 3, 1955 Dear Notre Dame Men: Often during the course of each year we have many opportunities to talk of Notre Dame. AVe reminisce, %ve discuss and we speculate. Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, on Dec. 5, 1954, occupied a greater part of our thoughts and expressions than any other time in tlie year. Notre Dame is many things to each of us. On one occasion, it may be its Patroness, Our Lady—the Motlier of God, s}'mbolized by the statue on the Golden Dome; or its phi­losophy of education, the training of the whole man—^his spirit, his mind and his body. On anotlier occasion, it may signify the God-given beauty of its campus; one of the adiletic teams; or the memorj' of an unusually pleasant period in our lives; or one of many odier choices. Always, it is the University, a center of learning for young men, the students, who neces­sarily are the "heart" of the Notre Dame family. From the beginning, those to whom the care of Notre Dame has been entrusted, the religious men of tlie Congi-egation of Holy Cross, have planned nothing less tlian a great American Cadiolic University—a world center of Christian culture. Much has been accomplished; much more has been planned. Progress, always the watchword, continues. The plant and the tools have been provided, and improved. The faculty has gro\\'n in numbers and attainment. It is now being supplemented so as to provide teaching no less than great. In all these things, we, who have profited by and enjoyed the educational experiences offered at Notre Dame, are proud to have had some part, however small. Often, we have hoped for an oppor­tunity to do something more ^atal or more concrete, in aid of the University's development. Now is the time. Everj^vhere in the world there is a great demand for those who have what it takes to lead the way to better living for all. Where, if not at Notre Dame, can such leaders be trained? We can do much to help by seeking out and introducing to Notre Dame young men \vith outstanding qualifications who, under the guidance of dedicated men, will be trained to reflect the true spirit of Notre Dame in positions of trust, responsibility and leadership. We, Notre Dame men, must seize this imusual opportunity to aid and assist in the development of the "heart" of the Notre Dame family. This is a program wherein our own personal efforts can be significant. There is no better time than the present. Thank you for your support during the year 1954. Yours hopefully, 
Jomes G. McGoIdrick President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA TRESS 






