The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
...a^T^JV -^•"^•^ 
'•"'""''•"'•-•­

"THE NOTRE DAME 
This book i s not to bt 
*?. ALUMNUS 
<^'^^ 

DEC 14 -36 

In This Issue 



ANTI­COMMUNIST PROGRAM UUNCHED 
m 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL 
(Vol. 15 December, 1936 No. 3 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1936 
ATHLETICS 
(Continual from PaKC -i'i) 

handling punts like a big league outfielder. 
Notre Dame, 14; Washington U., 6 

All they said about the Iron Men of Washington U. is true. They played sixty minutes without substi­tution while holding Illinois to a 13 to 7 victory. They used but four necessary substitutes against Notre Dame, while Coach Elmer Layden was employing 52 men. The margin was snug enough, but never was there much doubt that Notre Dame would win. The Irish had sluffed off badly from their jjerfonnance of the pre­ceding week, but they seemed to feel that they could score when points were needed. At any rate they marched here and there with appar­ent indifference and ease. Washing­ton let them with equally great indif­ference — until danger threatened. Then the Bears dug in and held, time and again. The Bears played for the breaks, kicking on third down, let­ting Notre Dame hammer away with the ball, consening their strength as much as possible. It wasn't until Notre Dame was leading, 14 to 0, 

4REERS IN INSURANCE FOR 

OLLEGE  GRADUATES  ^  
NATIONAL  ,  
COLLEGIATE  PERSONNEL  BUREAU- 
The Penn Mutual  Life Insurari'  

Independence Square • Philadelphia 

that they made a touchdown drive, 
but then they really went to work 
on a 72-yard march. 
After three futile goalward mo­tions, Notre Dame finally scored in the second quarter. Danbom ended a 30-yard march with a short plunge. The next touchdown resulted from a persistent 47-yard di-ive. Wilke threw passes of 15 and 12 yards to Wojci­hovski and O'Neill, respectively, the second for a touchdown. Puplis added both placements for extra point. 
Washington promptly took the ball from its 2S-yard line, where it had received the kick-off, and mixing passes with runs by Joe Bukant and Bob Hudgens, they arrived at the three-yard line as the result of in­terference on a pass, Bukant scoring. Londy's try for the placement missed. 
Notre Dame, 27; Wisconsin, 0 

The Washington U. game left a big question mark. The Irish had not met the Bears previously, and it was hard to gauge their improvement or lack of it. Thhe general impression was that Notre Dame looked pretty rag­ged, and gloom prevailed all week. 
Then Harry Stuhldreher brought his courageous Wisconsin team to town, and Notre Dame came back to life to run up a 21 to 0 score in three quarters, and to leave the rest of the scoring to the third team. Wisconsin saw more Notre Dame players than any opponent in the past has ever seen in action. Layden used every able-bodied man who was in uniform, a total of 71, which record book reports to the contraiy, is a record. 
But despite this wholesale use of subs, it was a tight ball game most 
ARMY 
Football Ga?ne at 
Ne-w Yori, November 14th 
Use COLONIAL STEAMSHIP 
KxvTCSS Turbine "Arroxv" and "CotnrC service throughout the 


 LINE to the Game 

R PROVIDENCE O 
to 
U 
NEW yORK 

M 
D 
and Return 

S4..50 

T R BOSTON P 
to F NEW YORK A and Return 
R 

S5.75 
E 

OUTSIDE Staterooms, with hot and cold running water, accom­modating two persons. $1, $1.50 (wilh 2 berths), $2 (bed and toilet), $3 (bed, shower and toilet). (Fare includes Free Berth in Men's or Women's Cabins.) 
Leave BOSTON (from Gray Line Term., 222 Boylston St.) 6 p.m. Leave PROVIDENCE (Colonial Line Wharf) 8:00 p.m. Leave NEW YORK (from Pier 11, N. River, ft. of Liberty) 6 p.ra. 
OCCHESTCA AND DANCING 
For further Information. Reservations, Tickets, phone or write: 
A. S. Prrrs, C.PA., G. W. EujsoN. N.E.PA.. 
38 Dorrance St., Providence, 222 Boylston St., Boston. 
R. I., Tel. Gaspee 9424 Mass., Tel. ICenraore 4230 

CCLeNIAL STEAMJIilP LINE 
of the route. Notre Dame scored with apparent ease in the first quarter on an SO-yard march, during which Wilke made runs of 18, 20 and 16 yards and threw a 16-yard pass to Puplis. Wilke's 16-yard run scored, and Puplis missed the placement. 
Thhe Badgers braced at this point and played the second team on even terms the entire second quarter. Along midway in the third period, with the number one varsity again operating, the boys in the center of the line fomented a successful plot to get Center Fred Mundee down the alley to block Clarence Tommerson's punt. All went well, and the ball went out of bounds on the Badger five yard line. Danbom made two yards, and Wojcihovski, after giving the Bad­gers fits by faking a reverse to the potent Danbom, sneaked through right guard to score, Puplis negoti­ating the extra point. 
The third Irish touchdown bloomed shortly later, Danbom plunging over to conclude a march, highlight of which was a 30-yard pass, Wilke to O'Neill. Wisconsin, whose chief fault was over-anxiety, was offsides twice inside the 11-yard line. In all the Badgers were offside 11 times, and the Irish i-efused two of the penal­ties. Puplis again added the place­ment, his sixth in seven attempts. 
With the second team in operation. Chuck O'Rielly took a Badger i)unt on his 41-yard line, late in the third chukker. Jake Kovalcik, promising Sophomore halfback, made 11-yards but both sides had violated the rules and the play was run over. This made Jake mad, and he threw a 54-yard pass to Len Skoglund who was dropped on the Badger 5-yard line. The ball travelled nearly GO yai'ds in the air, figuring from the point where Kovalcik actually stood. The second stringers had time for two more plays, and they left the balloon on the three-yard stripe for the third team, which entered the game to start the fourth quarter. Chuck Borowski, South Bend left halfback, promptly plunged over for the touchdown, and the inimitable Bill Ben (Butch) Bruno, quarterback, dropkicked the extra point. 
COURSE FOR BANKERS 

A 32-week course of training in the fundamentals of banking began on October 19 in the Commerce Building on the campus, attracting approximately one hundred bank em­ployes from thirteen cities and towns of northern Indiana and southern Michigan. 
The course is being offered by the South Bend chapter, American Insti­tute of Banking, with the coopera­tion of the University. Two Notre Dame faculty members. Professor L. Thomas Flatley and Professor A. E. Davis, serve as instmctors. 
--#B^~~~-N. D. Men will like Father GarroU's New Book»*aS»^ 





ISEE 
Treats 
of Character and the "Trifles" of Life 
CONTENTS 
HOBBIES TAKIXG OURSELVES TOO 
SERIOUSLY DOWN UP HESITATION' 
•\aCARI0US EMOTION THE WHISPER MID-SUaniER SHOWER CONVERSATION MOTHERS-IN-LAW MOSOTOSV CONVENIENCES QUIETING THE BABV PROGRESS A CHRISTMAS EVE P UBLICITY FACT FINDERS PAUTIALITY PKOPHETS CONTRASTS GREGARIOUSNESS KELAX VOLUNTEER CRITICS NUNS COMPENSATIONS KEEPING SECRETS QUESTIONNAIRES DRIFTING 
AN UMBRELLA SITTING JUDGES A STUDY ON WORDS STRENGTH HIGH COST OF MISTAKES EXAGGERATION GIVING ADVICE THE LONG ROAD THE ENTHUSIAST RIVALRY GETTING OLD THE BASHFUL CHILD CALL OF HOME ON BEING METHODICAL PENCILLED COMMENTARY STORY-TELLING COURTESY CURES FOR SAFETY RAZORS EXPERIENCE THE CONTAGION OF VIRTUE FRUSTRATION INTERRUPTIONS LAVENDER LADY LET US SEE DARKNESS LIGHT 


 REVIEW IN THIS ISSUE Page 70 
By PATRICK J. CARROLL, C.S.C. 
Culled From the Editor's 



"WEEKLY PAGE" 
contributions to THE AVE MARIA and published 
in a small, serviceable volume of substantial and 
attractive cloth binding 222 pages. $1.00 
Those who have been readers of Father Carroll's keen helpful, whimsical Page will welcome these kindly, pene­trating Essays in a permanent form. Vagrant Essays makes a beautiful Feastday, Birthday or Christmas gift. 
"All of the writer's essays are packed with illustration and imagery, with sincerity and humor, with spiritual applications, the whole seasoned with good sound common sense. Yet these little sermons in brief are never preachments. Rather, they are gentle reminders of modes and manners, of good taste and good sense. Above all, they are religious guides which treat, not of deep metaphysical problems which are often meaning­less to most of us, but of the needs and troubles which-beset us every day. They dignify those matters which appear at first trifling, but which are really of great spiritual importance."—Some Modern Catholic Essayists, 
Yehle. 



THE AVE MARIA PRESS 
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
m 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES £, ARMSTKONG, 75 The masazine is published monthly durin^r the scholastic year by the Alumni Assodatkni Mcsnber of Ae Ameiicaa 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price Is 92.00 
Editor Ahmmi CoaadL 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni daea of $5.00 Inchide 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter Jumary 1. 
WiLUAM R DOOLEY, 7 6 Member of NatX Ctlbolic 
1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All 
Managmg Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Aliminus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. Almniu FedenlioK 
Vol. 15 DECEMBER, 1936 No. 3 
Hughes Announces Anti-Communist Plans 
Plan Is Based Upon Co-operation of 85 Notre Dame Clubs; Each Club President Asked to Appoint Special Committee to Oper­ate With Definite Assistance From University and Association 
BY ARTHUR J. HUGHES, President of the Alumni Association 
It is eminently fitting that men educated and trained in the religious and patriotic environment of Notre Dame should be qualified to assume an important part in the leadership which is necessary to perpetuate the orderly processes of government and preserve the tenets and ideals of true religion. Government and religion, as we know them, are right now very defintiely the objects of destructive encroachments by those subsen-ise forces whose ugly existence has al­ready become a threat to every other prominent nation in the World. 
We, of Notre Dame, will also wel­come the opportunity of sharing such leadership virith other groups similarly inspired with high patriotic and reli­gious ideals. There is no tendency nor desire on our part to attempt to monopolize any feature of a coordi­nated national movement which must be immediately initiated and aggres­sively projected, if we are not to be eventually plunged into a Communis­tic cauldron of revolution and de­spair. 
Must Aid Other Agencies 

This revolution of ours, augmented as we hope it will be, must hold it­self ready to aid and cooperate with the President of our country, with our lawmakers, our judiciary, and with our local governing officials in sustaining them in the strength which, thank God, they have all so nobly evidenced in beating off the co­ercive advances of the Communistic regime. 
The greatest weapon of Commun­ism is found in its ability to create in the minds of those whom it would destroy, grave doubts as to the fact of its existence or the extent of its infiltration. If men who normally would be opponents can be influenced to belittle the group that it has al­ready been able to establish on cer­tain of our peoples and certain of our institutions here in America, it has made a tremendous advance in accomplishing its first big objective. 
The approach of Communism is a highly psychological one. It is gra­cious ; it is kindly and it is attractive; —because it is all of these, it is therefore beguiling. It is not until all of its attractiveness has afforded it a perfect cover under which to entrench its malignant forces that the grasp of its destructive tentacles is felt about the throats of its foolishly sophisticated victims. Notre Dame men will not be so dissuaded hut will actively and intelligently share the burden of this movement with their fellow citizens. 
In setting forth our plan I am un­usually privileged to be able to an­nounce first of all, and most impor­tant of all, that we are to have the 
THE PRESIDENT 
In Front of St. Peter's. 

leadership and sponsorship as well, of Father John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, the beloved President of our University. The whole substance of our plan has been made possible because of his ideals and inspiration and his con­stant counsel and advice. In fact, he has already sounded the opening challenge in this movement of ours in the brilliant sermon which he de­livered in St. Paul's Church, New York City, on November 15, 1936. Because of Father O'Hara, therefore, our activities are already begun. 
Because this is a Notre Dame movement, the Secretary's oflBce, under the supervision and control of Mr. James E. Armstrong, will be the central clearing point for all activ­ities. 
Two Major Duties 

The 85 different Notre Dame clubs will be the media through which in­formative data will be released to the people of the country at large. 
The president of each Notre Dame Dame Club is earnestly requested to immediately appoint a suitable com­mittee, the members of which shall in each instance have two major du­ties. Rrst, to thoroughly inform themselves as to the general princi­ples of Communism. This study and investigation can be made in connec­tion with data which will be fur­nished each club by the University through the Alumni Secretary's of­fice. The members should dso in­form themselves as to the inroads that are being made by Communism in their particular communities and the effects which such inroads are evi­dencing. Secondly, the members of each such committee should qualify themselves to carry on a consistent plan of public speaking by appearing before the various clubs and societies of their respective cities or commun­ities and presenting clearly and con­cisely the fundamentals which go to form the objective of our drive against Communism. 
It is advisable that the club presi­dents in selecting the membership of such committee indnde thereon alum­ni having special entree to such dif­
The Notre Dame Alumnus December, 1936 
ferent forums of public thought. There may be a Notre Dame man for instance, who is prominent in the Rotarj' Club or in the Kiwanis Club or in the local Chamber of Commerce or in the Knights of Columbus, who, because of his close connection, will find it easier to liimself appear or to arrange to have other Noti-e Dame men make such appearances. 
It is appreciated that the men who will be the members of this committee have their time more than taken up in the pursuit of their own business and social affairs. In order, there­fore, to aid us to the fullest extent, Father O'Hara has arranged for the co-operation of members of the fac­ulty at Notre Dame in the prepara­tion of treatises on the subject of Communism, and these will be avail­able to the committee members for use as manuscripts of speeches and talks of various kinds. This informa­tive data will be grouped in proper sequence and will be released in in­stallments to the presidents of each of the clubs each month for distribu­tion to committee members. 
Radio Programs Arranged 

This method has an important ad­vantage in that we will all be work­ing along certain standardi2ed lines in adhering to proper principles of scholastic philosophy. 
During the course of the year Fa­ther O'Hara and other priests and members of the faculty will make public appearances in behalf of this movement in many of the larger cities of the country. 
Father O'Hara has already ar­ranged a series of radio programs on Communism which will be started immediately and broadcast from New York City. Supplementing this, facil­ities have been offered for a series of similar programs by one of the stations in Chicago and these broad­casts vdW follow those in New York. The broadcasting of additional pro­grams from radio stations in the other principal cities of the country under Notre Dame auspices and on the subject of Communism will all contribute to the great national move­ment of Notre Dame in behalf of the burning question of the hour. 
Certain metropolitan newspapers have offered to open their pages to us for artides and treatises on Com­munism. These offers will be accept­ed, and the ai-ticles %vill be wi-itten by the members of our faculty. 
As a culmination to this announce­ment, Father O'Hara has approved an arrangement "wherein the formal in­itiation of our movement against Communism will be made, we hope, by all of the 8a clubs holding meet­ings on the evening of-Monday, Jan­uary 25, 1937. These meetings will not be in the nature of banquets or dinners, but will be held rather as forums with prominent speakers as 
guests, all dealing with various fea­
tures of our movement. 
On this date the first monthly re­leases of the informative data pre­pared by the faculty will be in the hands of the club presidents and will be distributed to the committee mem­bers, and speaking engagements which, it is hoped, will have already been made, will then begin to mate­rialize and the real effect of the open­ing endeavors of our campaign dis­tinctly evidenced. 
First Such N.D. Movement If this movement of ours is to attain its ends, it must afford an op­portunity as well as a reason for every Notre Dame man at one time or another to appear before his fel­low citizens in his local community with the presentation of a subject so patriotic and so moralistic in its ap­peal that the very name of Notre Dame itself must continue to be sy­nonymous with the best in educa­tional standing, in patriotic love of country, and in continued preserva­tion of every true religious principle. 
Action taken already by way of laying the ground work for this move­ment of ours has resulted in veri­table reams of publicity on behalf of the University originating in every citj', town and hamlet in the United States and abroad. This publicity was essentially characteristic in two things, namely, that it definitely em­phasized Notre Dame's fine religious standing and background, and second­ly—the quality of its leadership from an educational standpoint. This is what Father O'Hara most desires. It is what he has been earnestly and successfully striving for from the very moment of his induction as President of the University. 
This is the first time in the history of the University of Notre Dame that it has engaged itself in the propaga­tion of such a great civil movement. It is the first time, therefore, that we Notre Dame men have had an oppor­tunity of joining with our Univer­sity in making the accomplishments of one great movement a real suc­cess by appearing before our fellow men in cities and communities of our homeland and urging greater patriot­ism and greater adherence to reli­gious ideals. 
If the presidents of the 85 Notre Dame clubs enter into this movement with the sincere, loyal enthusiasm that every one connected ^vith it is certain they will, and if the members of the committees appointed by the club presidents proceed immediately to arrange for public appearances for enther themselves or other members of their clubs in the various forums of their respective localities, and if every Notre Dame man volunteers to propagate the fundamental princi­ples of true Americanism and love, loyalty and allegiance to the Divine 
Gerry Hoar, *21, Is 
Chosen 
Named Head of University Laundry 

Gerald J. Hoar, B.S. '21, of Chica­go, was on December 1 named man­ager of the University laundry and cleaning plant, succeeding Frederick 
J. Amison who died suddenly on Octo­ber 21. 
Gerry has had wide experience in the laundry field. For 2% years fol­lowing his graduation he was field secretary for the Laundry Owners 
GEHUUD J. HOAR, '21 

National Association; within this per­iod he spent some time in research as a participant in the Laundry Own­ers Fellowship in the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research. Later, he was successively, superintendent of the American Institute Laundry, Joliet, Illinois; the Calumet Laundry and the Lake City Laundry, both of Chi­cago. He came to Notre Dame from the last named of these. 
At Notre Dame, Gerry was a mono­gram track man for three years, spe­cializing in the quarter mile, high jiunpand hurdles. He was president of his class for two years and secre­tary to the late Knute K. Rockne for 2% years. 
Gerry is already at Notre Dame. His wife and two children will move to South Bend soon after January 1. 
Providence, this movement will elec­trify the whole nation and will em­blazon the name of our great Univer­sity on the very heights of the esteem and admiration of our fellow citizens. 

Two Programs of Life 
r • By Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C. 
A Sermon Delivered by the President of the 
University in the Church of St. Paul the Apos­
tle, New York City, on Sunday, November 15 
(N.B. Following Father O'Hara's life after death, and all our account­sermon, which is a keynote address ability is administered by the police in the approach of the Notre Dame power, who is there to say that after alumni to the problem presented by a reign of plutocracy there should the growth of Communism, the Edi­not be a reign of the kind of democ­tors are happy to present, for those racy they call Communism? Or, if alumni interested in further study of there is no God, and man has no soul, this vital field, a bibliography of fun­who can say that perhaps anarchy, damental and current reading in both with the self-destruction of the hu­sides of the problem as outlined by man race, is not an inevitable evolu­Father O'Hara. The bibliography tion of this mistake we call man? was compiled by Daniel O'Grady, Ph.D., professor of philosophy of the 
Relentless Forces at Work 

University.) Relentless forces are at work in the world driving a wedge between 
This morning, my dear friends, I two extremes of philosophy, and de­want to lay before you two programs stroying the middle ground. Whether of life. Neither program is my own. 
they will it or not, people are being The one is preached constantly here forced either to the right or to the in St. Paul's Church, and down in left. In the middle ground, between St. Patrick's Cathedral, and wherever active, practical Christianity on the Catholics foregathter to worship God right, and radical materialism on the and seek direction for their lives. The left, there have stood two inconsist­other program is preached constantly ent classes. That middle ground has a block away from here, in Columbus been occupied by those who call them­Circle, down in Union Square, and selves Christians, but refuse to fol­wherever Communists and Atheists low the moral teachings of Christ; gather to denounce God and seek di­and there has been another group of rection for their Godless lives. 
men who have rejected Christ's claim to divinity, and yet have followed at Neither statement can be exhaus­least in some degree, a Christian code tive. Neither statement can be sup­of morals. The inconsistencies of both ported in this brief period by an groups are now becoming apparent, apologetic treatise. My hope is to and the inhabitants of the middle arouse interest, to encourage study, ground find reason forcing them to and to ask you to choose the program accept logical conclusions from the your conscience dictates and follow it premises they have laid down for with all your heart and soul. 
themselves. 
No Middle Ground 

I cannot take time to develop this 
You will have to make that de­thought. Remember it; think of it; cision. I have no army to force you to see to it that in your own life at choose, but I am \villing to stand as least there is consistency between be­a minor prophet to warn you that you lief and practice. Allow me to pro­must choose. And I offer only two ceed now to a brief presentation of programs. There is no middle ground. these two programs, one or other of The fact that there has been a middle which you will be forced to accept. ground for 400 years means nothing 
The first program is laid down in today. People are dull of wit and revelation, and is taught by the are slow to see the bad logic of a Catholic Church. In substance it may middle ground that is full of incon­be summarized as follows: 
sistencies. What has happened these 400 years is all water over the dam. Man is a being created by God to Nineteen hundred years ago, Christ His own image and likeness. His said: "He that is not ^vith Me is likeness to God is chiefly in the soul, against Me: he that gathereth not which is intelligent and free, and is with Me scattereth." A day has now destined in course of time to be sep­come, in God's own time, when that arated from the body for a while and saying is put to the test. live on in an eternity of bliss or woe, 
according to the free use it has made Either there is a God or there of its opportunities on earth to know isn't. Either man has an immortal God and to love and serve Him. 
soul or he has not. If there is no God and man has no soul, if there is no This soul is, then, the seat of re­sponsibilities. It came from God and is destined to go back to God at the end of a period of probation, during which time it has set before it for free choice, good and evil. 
Man has, by his very nature, in­herent in his soul certain rights. First of all, given an immortal soul, he has the right to save his soul. Then, given life, he has a right to live, and a right to the means of livelihood. He has a right to marry and have child­ren of his own. He has a right, a strict right, and a duty as well, to rear these children so that they can save their souls and make a living. He has, therefore, a right to a job, and a right to such pay as will en­able him to care properly for him­self and his family. 
Since men do not normally live as hermits, but in communion with their kind, the nature of man demands an organized society, which will protect his rights against the encroachments of others, and will restrain him if he becomes a menace to his fellow men. That higher authority, in whomsoever it may be vested, comes from God, and those who wield it are answerable to God. 
State Protects Natural Rights 

The state does not create natural rights; it protects them. It is the dutj'' of the state to defend the rights of those living under it—the right to worship God, the right to life, the right to one's family, the right to one's just possessions, the right to one's reputation. While men may, by joint action, by majority vote, even by force of arms under certain given circumstances, choose the particular form of government imder which they may wish to live, the authority wield­ed by the state comes from God. And yet the state exists for man, and not man for the state. The state must use its divinely-given authority justly, or it becomes a tyranny. It must pro­tect the common good; it must over­see justice between man and man. 
Divine revelation, which is the basis of the supernatural as taught by the Catholic Church, gives no hope of complete happiness or complete justice in this world. It demands justice, but it indicates that selfish­ness, greed, and envy will ever inter­fere with its fizlfillment. Therefore it blesses those who suffer persecution 
for justice sake, it blesses the poor, the meek, the merciful, the peace­makers, the clean of heart; and it promises heaven for a cup of cold water given in Christ's name. The supernatural concept of life, in fine, regards our earthly existence as but a short period of trial, in which we must "love justice and hate iniquity," and promises us that the troubles of this life are as nothing compared with the reward God has prepared for those who love Him. But while it prepares us for injustices, it acquits neither the state nor the unjust op­pressor of the penalties of injustice. These penalties may be temporal or they may be eternal—and only in eternity will the full balance of jus­tice be struck. 
In stating the philosophy of the communist regarding life, I shall find it necessary at times to go beyond the practical admissions of communists, but no statement will be made that cannot be traced logically to prin­ciples underlying Communism. With this preface, the philosophy of Com­munism may be summarized in this way: 
Principles of Communism 

Man is a biological specimen, the highest yet evolved from prime mat­ter, but diifering in no essential from animals, plants, or minerals. In other words, all matter contains inherently the elements that can evolve into a man, given enough time and proper working conditions of nature. Man has no soul, and when he dies he is as dead as a dog. The idea that man has a soul that will live on after death is an invention of priests, the successors of the primitive medicine men who lived by their wits on the credulity of the masses. Religion, taught by priests, is the opiate of the people. It holds up the vain hopes of a happiness after death. 
There is no God, and-man has no God-given destiny; he has only such destiny as he makes for himself. Log­ically, then, all men are equal; in practice, some communists recognize that people difi'er in capacities, and in the Soviet state of Russia, they now pay people differently according to occupation and skill. The earth is bountiful; it offers much that will gratify the appetites and passions of man, and make him happy. The cap­italistic system of unrestrained com­petition is accused by Communism of saying: "Take what you can get for yourself, and the devil take the hind­most. Let the smart man live by his vrits, and the dullard by his brute strength; let the w^eak and the slow fall by the wayside." 
The Communist proposes that the state assume charge of all production goods for the common benefit of all. The state he regards as a transcen­dental creation of man for which man 
exists. I am not prepared to show just how in this proposed scheme of things, the state, which is man's in­vention, is superior to man. I am simply stripping this current philos­ophy of its panoply to show it in its stark reality. Stalin quotes with ap­proval the words of Lenin: "The sci­entific concept, dictatorship, means nothing more nor less than power which directly rests in violence, which is not limited by any law or any ab­solute rules. Dictatorship means un­limited power resting on violence and not on law." This dictatorship, ac­cording to Communists, must hold un­til the proletariat millenium is es­tablished., 
Matenaiistic Concept 

In the materialistic concept which Communism follows, and which has been taught in the old middle ground by the professors and the philosoph­ers who deny the super-natural, man has no rights except such as are given him by the state. The state will see that he gets enough to eat, unless perchance the wheat is needed for export, to dump in a capitalistic coun­try or to barter for dynamos, as hap­pened in the Ukraine a few years ago, when five million people were left to starve. If man has not natural rights, then he has no right to choose his own wife unless the state gives him that right. I know that the commun­ists will deny this, but it is a logical deduction from their principles; how­ever, they feel no obligation to be con­sistent in their deductions from prin­siples. A man may want children, but if the state decides that it does not need his children, does not want them, the state may render him incapable of procreating his kind. A man may 
want to rear his own children in his own way, but he has not natural right to do this and he cannot do this imless the state gives him that right. Man has no right to the fruits of his labor unless the state gives him that right; he has no right to his savings, unless the state gives him that right 
— and the action of communistic states leads us to believe that, funda­mentally. Dr. Eomulo spoke very ex­actly when he defined Communism as, "The illegitimate hope of unearned increment." 
How far has Communism gone in this country? I am not prepared to say. Perhaps some of you know much better than I how far it has gone. How far can it go? I do not know. But I know that for a century now the children of our public schools have been brought up without the knowledge of God that relipous schools can impart, and that a ma­terialistic view of life threatens to engulf us. Materialism has wrought havoc among Catholics; and it has desolated the world outside the Cath­olic fold. What concept of a future' life do you find in daily business re­lations, in entertainment, in social life. Too many people marry only for money. People callously set the horsepower of a motor car over against the infant souls they might give back to God. Too many employ­ers forget that defrauding laborers of their wages is a sin crying to heaven for vengeance. 
Such soil is fertile for the seeds of Communism, and you can't stop Com­munism by pulling up a few weeds. Political action, deportation of radical aliens, living wage laws, social insur­ance — these are but temporizing measures. They come properly with­in the scope of good government, but they fall short of the root evil. They are materialistic in concept, and they deal with a symptom instead of a disease. 
The root evil behind Communism is Materialism, the denial of the super­natural. The only lasting cure is a return to God. Chiselers find ways to circumvent all man-made laws; only a stout conscience, impelled unerring­ly to good by love and fear of God, can insure complete justice to God and man. 
The Catholic Position 

If the world does not know the Catholic position, this is largely the fault of Catholics. Do you know your religion? Do you practice it as you should? Are you able to answer sat­isfactorily the reasonable questions of non-Catholics in your own state of life? Has religious indifference kept you in ignorance of your religion; or, worse, has human respect kept you from sharing the word of God, your precious heritage, with those outside the fold? Or, worse still, have you adopted the Elizabethan test of Di­vine favor, and locked religion in a closet, to be brought out only for an hour on Sunday morning? I hope you understand what I mean by the Eliz­abethan test. From the time of Queen Elizabeth down to this day, in Anglo-Saxon countries, material pros­perity has been taken as a measure of Divine favor. 
If through ignorance, through hu­man respect, or blinded by material ambitions, you have neglected to study your religion as you should and share it with others less fortunate than yourself, lose no time in correct­ing your fault. The world, if it would save itself, must return to God, and your neighbor can rightfully expect to be brought back to God through you. Learn the power of Christian example. Of the first followers of Christ it was said: "See those Chris­tians, how they love one another." First, cleanse your own heart and grow strong in daily Communion; then make over your family on the model of the Holy Family; then work to turn society back to God. 
All glory to Spain, which stands to­

day in bloody trenches to fight once more for Christian civilization. Po­land in the east and Spain in the west, are the nations which sacrificed their blood through centuries to keep the Mediterranean from becoming a Moslem lake. Spain has been called once more to defend Christian cul­ture, this time against the savage barbarians who slash and bum Chris­tian art, who crucify holy virgins, and bum priests at the stake. 
Materialism is armed for battle to the death. Prayer and Christian ex­ample can disarm it if we act before it is too late. If we delay, if we fal­ter, if we seek a comfortable truce, then once more the blood of martyrs must regenerate the world. 
BIBLIOGRAPHY NOTE 

John LaFarfiTC—"Phil. Basis of Communism" in Proc. 9th Meet. Am. Cath. Phil. Assn. 1933. 
John A. Kyan and Morris Hillquit—Socialism, 
Promise or Menace, Macmillan. 
John A. Ryan and M. F. X. mUar—The State and the Church, Aracmtllan (ch.ix) Hillnire Belloc—The Servitc State, Constahic, London. 
G. K. Chesterton and G. B. Shaw—Do We Aaree? London. 
G. K. Chesterton—Outline of Sanity, Methuen. London. 
Victor Cathrcin—Socialism, Benziser, 1904. 
St. Thomas Aquinas—Summa Theologica, 2a, 2ae, Q 77, a 4. (On Usury). 
Othmar Spann—The History of Economics, 
Norton, 1930. 
George O'Brien—Mediaeval Economic Teach­ing, Longmans, 1920. 
Charles S. Devas—Political Econamu, Long­mans. (Stonyhurst Scries). 
V. Fallon, S.J.—Principles of Social Economu, 
Benziger, 1933 
E. J. Burke, S.J.—Political Economy. Amer­ican Book Co.. 1913. 
Matteo Lihcratorc, S.J.—Principles of Political Economy, Benziger, 1891. 
B. Russell, John Dewey & M. Cohen—"Why I am not a Communist" in Modem Monthly, April, 1934. 
' RECENT AUTIIORITATI\-E IVORKS BY COMMUNISTS, SOCLVLISTS, COLLECTIMSTS Ct al 
Sherwood Eddy (ed)—The Meaning of Marx, Farrar and Rinehart, 1935. 
Emile Bums (ed)—Handbook of Marxism, 
Random House. 1935. 
Bukharin et al—Marxism and Modern Tltouaht, 
Harcourt Brace, 1935. 
Encyclopedia Britannica (1929)—articles on 
"Socialism." "Communism," "Anarchism." 
G. D. H. Cole—ir/iat Marx Really Meant, 
Knopf, 1934. ON WHERE THE BLAME BELONGS FOR THE ABUSES 
o r PRIVATE PROPERTY (CAPITALISM an d its relation to PROTESTANTISM) 
R. H. Tawncy—RcUyion and the Rise of Cap­italism, Harcourt Brace, 1930. 
J. A. Hohson—God and Mammon, Watts, Lon­don, 1931. 
A. Fanfani—Catholicism, Protestantism and 
Capitalism, Shecd and Ward, 1935. 
N.B.—On this subject. Dean Inge (in his Proteatantism, Benn. London 1932. p. 36) 
Laetare Medal Formally Presented 
Richard Reid Receives Award In Distinsuished Ceremony 
The Laetare medal, given annually by the University of Notre Dame to the outstanding Catholic layman of the year, was formally presented in Augusta, Georgia, Sunday afternoon, Nov. 8, to Richard Reid, Augusta lawyer, editor an d distinguished Catholic layman. The presentation 
was made by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, at the 21st annual convention of the Laymen's association of Georgia. 
Distinguished clergymen who par­ticipated in the ceremonies included Most Rev. Gerald P. O'Hara, D.D., bishop of Savanah; Most Rev. Pat­rick J. Barry, D.D., bishop of St. Augustine; Most Rev. William J. Hafey, D.D., bishop of Raleigh, and Most. Rev. Emmet M. Walsh, D.D., bishop of Charleston. 
In conferring the medal Father O'Hara lauded Mr. Reid ias a pioneer in Catholic action in the United States. 
Father O'Hara said: 

"Notre Dame selects you, Richard Reid, for your services in that army in enlightenment, the Catholic Lay­men's Association of Georgia. You and your fellow workers began your 
•writes: "It has been said that the successful money-maker of todtiy is either a child of the Ghetto or a grandchild of John Calvin" 
" So we cjin understand how Calvinism helped to create that curious product, the modem busipess man" . . . "No sj-stem was ever so effectual in promoting that kind of progress which is measured by statistics." 
John A. Ryan—^"The Philosophy of Capital­ism" in Proceedings of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the Amcr. Catholic Philos. Assn.. Pittsburgh, 1933. 
pioneering in Catholic Action on the logical assumption that a more under­standing' spirit between Catholics and non-CathoUcs of your state shonld mean a more unified front against the enemies of both. The natjon and the state at this time need niiity and solidarity of thought in outlook and act. 
"In upbuilding, maintaining and defending the nation, the two great Christian groups have contributed generously in treasure and sacrifice. They must understand the helpful lesson that if the nation falls tiiey both suffer with it. They must know that the enemies within our gates and without do not lore Protestants more because they love Catholics less. 
"The University of Notre Dame honors you, because yon have been temperate and wise. You have ^e n enlightenment on our faith rather than stirred opposition by raucous controversy. You have taught by ex­ample more than by word that there are more links of love to unite men than shafts of hate to keep them apart. 
"Therefore to you, as captain in that army of good will, the Univer­sity of Notre Dame comes with her symbol of service — the Laetare medal." 
The Laetare medal has been award­ed annually by Notre Dame since 1883. The name of the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent. 
THREE SPLENDID TRIBUTES 

Raymond J. Kelly, 15, corporation counsel of the City of Detroit, was elected president of the Institute of Municipal Law Officers at its Wash­ington convention. 
J. Stanley Bradbury, '23, was re­elected states attorney of Crawford Coimty, 111., by an overwhelming majority. Stan carried the county by 1217 votes, heading the Democratic ticket. Roosevelt carried by 350. The county is normally Republican. 
And in Minnesota, the eleventh ju­dicial district was startled when Mark Nolan, '24, unseated the incum­bent judge for the first time in the history of the district, to win over four opponents. Mark had become a prominent liberal leader in the Min­nesota legislature, serving thre e terms. Mark had Farmer-Labor sup­port, but had to defeat the opposing candidates who carried the endorse­ment of the Bar Association. 
Alumni Return For O. S. and N. W. 
Crowd Campus For Sea­son's Final Thrilling Games. 
We present again a copy of the Alumni Office register—^this time for the final tiro games of the home sea­son, Ohio State on Oct. 31 and North­western on Nov. 21. 
The former probably set a new high for the number of alumni who traveled long distances to see a game at Notre Dame, many of them in special trains. The Denver Club, es­pecially, was outstandingly successful in this regard, with its special train all the way from Denver, The North­western game likewise brought in in­numerable alumni. 
Need we repeat? These are the names, of course, of only that com­paratively small number who fought their way into the Alumni Office on extremely busy days. Countless other alumni were in the stadium for both games. 
OHIO STATE 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pitts­burgh; Edw. G. Byrnes, '25, Pitts­burgh; Joseph B. McGlynn, '12, East St. Louis, Illinois; Al Castellini, '24, Cincinnati; Frank Sweeney, ex. '17, Cincmnati; T. E. Oakes, '31, Chicago; Eay Oakes, '35, Canton, Ohio; Gerry Holland, '25, Detroit; M. H. Sinnott, '10, Chicago; Robert Slack, '34, Me­dina, New York; James C. Leahy, '30, Tiffin, Ohio; L I. Probst, '26, New Athens, Illinois; E. F. Else, '34, Buf­falo, New York; Paul J. Eagan, '97, Toledo; John C. Walsh, '32, Massillon, Ohio; Ben Resting, '25, Toledo; Jim Pearson, '26, Flint, Michigan; Ed Mansfield, '34, Denver, Colo.; Ray­mond J. Kelly, '16, Detroit; E. P. LaJoie, '15, Detroit. 
Bernard W. Ley, '25, Akron, Ohio; 
P. H. Brokhage, '29, Vincennes, Indi­ana; Emmett Brown, '27, Des Moines, Iowa; Bob Hostetler, '35, Chicago; Frank X. Cull, '08, Cleveland; J. H. Zuher, '31, Saginaw, Mich.; Francis 
M. Barton, '96, Danville, Illinois; Lawrence J. Stitt, '33, Chillicothe, Ohio;B. P. Johnson, e.\. '01, Odell, Illinois; Jack Grey, '29, Buffalo; John 
G. Byrne, '23, Buffalo; Frank J. Belt­ing, '29, Cleveland; John B. Moran, '06, Detroit; John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland; Bill Ryan, '11, Cleveland; John Tully, '11, LaGrange, Illinois; George Bischoff, '25, Indianapolis; John McDonnell, '35, Davenport, Iowa; George W. Vander Vennet, '32, Davenport, Iowa; Fred M. Zimmer­man, '30, Alton, Illinois. 
Arthur J. Hughes, '11, Chicago; Dan O'Connor, '05, Chicago; Doc Ni­
gro, ex. '14, Kansas City, Mo.; Hogan Morrissey, '26, Cincinnati; Harry Nester, '20, Columbus, Ohio; Rev. Harry Ryan, '27, Iowa City, Iowa; John Neeson, '03, Philadelphia;' By­ron Kanaley, '04, Chicago; Bill Hur­ley, '25, Saginaw, Mich.; C. Girsch, ex. '98, Chicago; Jim Keams, '34, Chicago; Arch Ward, ex. '21, Chica­go; Charles M. Bryan, '97, Memphis, Tennessee; WiUiam J. Granfield, '13, Springfield, Massachusetts; George Delana, '14, Chicago; Charles E. Rohr, '29, Cleveland; Joe Norton, '24, Detroit; John W, Brennan, '27, De­troit; M. A. O'Keefe, '27, Moberly, Missouri. 
Mo nd Mo 
Ed Ryan, '27, Chicago; F. D. Fusz, Jr., '25, St. Louis; Arthur Funk, '06, LaCrosse, Wisconsin; R. A. Dick, '29, Denver; A, F. Gushurst, '09, Lead, South Dakota; James P. Hanrahan, '27, Frankfort, Kentucky; Fred Gu­shert, '14, Denver; Edward M. Mo­ran, '34, Chicago; Norb Mizerski, '34, Chicago; R. M. Worth, '25, Indianap­olis; George Wassell, '31, Sharon, Pennsylvania; F. J. Gannon, '31, Cleveland; Ed Browni, '93, Helena, Montana. 
Fred Steers, '11, Chicago; E. L. Holland, '09, Baltunore; Phil Prend­ergast, '31, Lakewood, Ohio; Jim For-en, '22, Detroit; Hugh J. SIcManigal, e-x. '27, Ashley, Ohio; Rev. M. L. Mor­iarty, '10, Cleveland; M. Harry Mil­ler, *10, Wilmington, Delaware; Joe Collins, '11, Detroit; Frank Cass, '36, Buffalo; Al McEachern, '32, Chicago; Dick Phalin, '28, Chicago; Al Costel­lo, '35, Titusville, Pa.; John Raleigh, '31, Cleveland; Jerry Jones, '22, Dix­on, niinois; Jolm Cahill, '33, Dixon, Illinois; George Shields, '35, Grand Rapids, Michigan; "Rip" Miller, '25, Annapolis, Maryland; Bob Neydon, '31, Detroit; Jack Cannon, '30, Colum­bus, Ohio; Dan Cannon, '30, Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
NORTHWESTERN 
(Not including monogram men here for Old Timers' Reunion.) 
Arthur T. Simpson, '97, Dallas, Te-xas; E. J. England, '30, Winfield, Kansas; A. W. Kegowicz, '30, Chi­cago; W. Wade Sullivan, '26, Algona, Iowa; Louis Thornton, '28, New York City; Joseph R. Munizzo, '32, Chica­go; George A. Arehart, '32, Chicago; Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey; William D. Jamieson, '05, Chicago; John P. Michuta, '36, West Bend, Wisconsin; Rev. Charles December, 1936 
Nofre Dome Books 
VAGRANT ESSAYS, by Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C, '11 (The Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. ?1) 
Alumni who have had the benefit of Father Carroll's teaching, or who have followed his writings in maga­zine, book and The Ave Maria of which he is now editor, welcome any of his creative works. 
His weekly Page in The Ave Maria has become one of the most antici­pated features of the magazine. 
Keen, human and humorous, as vagrant in its subject matter as the mind of a well-informed, understand­ing priest can be, these essays de­manded more permanence than their fleeting page. 
So The Ave Maria Press has bound them into a little volume of 222 pages, attractive for a gift, popularly priced at one dollar. 
Indicative of the scope are a few of the titles—^Taking Ourselves Too Ser­iously; Mothers-In-Law; Quieting the Baby; High Cost of Mistakes; Cures for Safety Razors; The Contagion of Virtue, etc. 
J. Williams, '18, Piper City, Illinois; Fred L. Steers, '11, Chicago; M. J. Meyers, '04, Carroll, Iowa; John E. Kenny, '21, New Castle, Pennsyl­vania; William R. Ryan, '11, Cleve­land; Dr. H. G. McCarty, '09; Cleve­land. 
W. N. Rosier, '04, Louisville; John 
A. Lemmer, '18, Escanaba, Michigan; 
F. J. Swartz, '26, Akron, Ohio; E. A. Gleason, '28, Akron, Ohio; John R. Herbert, '28, Syracuse, New York; Thomas A. McLaughlin, '16, Detroit; William P. Wittenburg, '33, New Buf­falo, Michigan; Clarence R. Smith, '22, Bemidji, Minnesota; Arthur J. Hughes, '11, Chicago; Raymond J. Kelly, '16; Detroit; George W. Van­der Vennet, '32, Davenport, Iowa. 
John McDonnell, '35, Davenport, Iowa; Ralph J. Ehr, 33, Waukesha, Wisconsin; Lyman H. Hill, Jr., '29; Jackson, Michigan; Eugene N. Daly, Jr., '23, Syracuse, New York; F. E. Quish, '11, Detroit; E. J. Weeks, '12, Detroit; Albert. S. O'SuUivan, '18, Belvidere, Illinois; Clyde A. Walsh, '21, Campus, Illinois; Joseph E. Wha­len, '29, Rock Island, Illinois. 
Leo Heringer, '24, Joliet, Illinois; Leo M. Murphy, '02, Odell, Illinois; 
P. J. Philip, '12, Detroit; James P. Logan, '18, Denver; E. J. Bonini, '27, Grand Rapids, Michigan; Arthur J. Bidwill, '26, River Forest, Illinois; A. 
J. Brinkman, '27, Chicago; A. S. (Continued on Page S4) 

Ave Maria Is 71 
ears Old 
Has World Presiige Under Brilliant Editors 

The establishment of the Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C., scholarship fund, un­der the vdW of the late Frank Phil­lips, Fort Wayne, brings to mind the great work done at Notre Dame by the quiet little priest who, for more than 50 years, exerted a world in­fluence on Catholic letters through the magazine published weekly at Notre Dame, honoring, as does the University itself, the Mother of God. 
In May, 1865, his little institution only 23 years old and still disorgan­ized from the effects of the Civil War, the indomitable and far-sighted Fath­er Sorin established a magazine to honor Mary that had long been one of his objectives. It was called The Ave Maria. 
The following year Eev. Neil Gil­lespie, C.S.C., returning from France, was appointed its editor, and con­tinued until his death in 1874. Mean-w^hile, the young Father Hudson had come from the intensely cultured and literary atmosphere of New England, and he succeeded Father Gillespie as editor of The Ave Maria, serving brilliantly a growing spiritual and cultural mission until his own death in January, 1934, 60 years after his first editorial work on the budding Catholic weekly. 
Under the editorial guidance of Father Hudson The Ave Maria waxed in the power of its -ivriting and in its scope. Today it enjoys a world circu­lation of more than 30,000 weekly. 
Many great figures in Catholic lit­erature have begun or fostered their careers in the pages of The Ave Maria. 
Today, under the editorship of Eev. 
P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., '11, alumni who do not enjoy The Ave Maria weekly are missing one of the finest contacts with the Notre Dame campus. Father Carroll is himself a keen writer, edit­ing a weekly page that has just been compiled in book form imder the title Vagrant Essays. He is assisted by such able members of the Congrega­tion as Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, and Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C, Rev. James McElhone, C.S.C., and Eev. Charles Carey, C.S.C, with frequent contributions by other members of the order. 
In addition to these excellent "staff" writers, The Ave Maria feat­ures from week to week outstanding and familiar writers, in its articles, stories and poems. Many of these names are familiar in faculty and alumni contacts. 
And the whole purpose of the 
lit Old Timers" of 1900-1905 Return 
Northwestern Week-end Provides Thrills For Veterans of Great N.D. Teams; D. 
J. O'Connor Serves Ably as Chairman 
Veteran athletes of Notre Dame's various teams from 1900 to 1905 gathered on the campus for the week­end of November 20 and 21. Walter Gearin, from Portland, Oregon, and Anton Stephan, from New York City, gave early indication of the scope of the attendance. 
Friday evening the men were guests of the University at a supper in the Lay Faculty Dining Eoom. From there they adjourned to the Univer­sity Gym as guests of the students at the pre-Northwestem pep meeting. Later in the evening the Old Timers were guests of honor of the Notre Dame Club of the Saint Joseph Val­ley at the final smoker of the pre­game smoker series conducted by the organization this Fall. 
Saturday morning at 7:30 a Mass for deceased Old Timers was cele­brated in Sorin Hall Chapel. 
The former stars met again at a luncheon Saturday noon in the Uni­versity Dining Halls and climaxed the week-end as sideline guests of the Athletic Association at the thrilling Northwestern-Notre Dame game. 
The following list of those in at­tendance connotes the volumes of in-
magazine is so closely interwoven with the purpose of the University, through their mutual founder, that the alumnus finds in its pages a spir­itual bond more appealing than any mere literary appeal, strong as the latter continues to be. 
To allow one "commercial" to an­swer a natural question, the subscrip­tion is three dollars a year. Prac­tically, it makes a most appealing and lasting Christmas gift to any Catholic friend. 
teresting data that could be written around the personalities of the week­end: 
Eobert L. Bracken, Dixon, Illinois, football; Raymond J. Bums, Pitts­burgh, Pennsylvania, baseball ; Durant Church, Bowie, Maryland, -football; William W. Desmond, Wood­stock, Illinois; William A. Draper, Chicago, football; Judge Michael L. Fansler, Indianapolis, featball; Rev. John F. Farley, C.S.C, football-base­
ball-track. 
Arthur Fimk, La Crosse, Wiscon­sin, baseball-track; Walter J. Gearin, Portland, Oregon, track; Harry J. Geoghegan, Gary, Indiana, baseball; Ralph L. Glynn, St. Paul, Minnesota, football-track; Charles E, Hemp, St. Louis, baseball; Martin B. Herbert, Milwaukee, track; Frank E. Hering, South Bend, football. 
Harry G. Hogan, Fort Wayne, In­diana, baseball-track; Byron Kanaley, Chicago, baseball; Eobert E. Lynch, Green Bay, Wisconsin, baseball; Ed­ward W. McDermott, Waukegan, Illi­nois, football; La^vrence M. McNer­ney, Elgin, Illinois, football-basebaU; Daniel L. Murphy, Farmer City, Illi­nois, football; Daniel J. O'Connor, Chicago, baseball. 
Edwin C. Pick, West Bend, Wis­consin, track; John B. Pick, West Bend, Wisconsin, football-track; Louis 
J. Salmon, Chicago, football-baseball; James J. Sherry, New York City, baseball; Oscar F. Smith, Rock Is­land, Illinois, baseball; Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan, football; Anton C. Stephan, New York City, baseball; Joseph J. Sullivan, Chicago, track; and William G. Uffendell, Chi­cago, track. 
ONE OF THE OLD TIMERS ELEVENS 
Dan Murphy, '05, left a few pictures in the Office. The Editor's memory, supplemented by Father Farley's, can't go beyond Salmon. GJynn, Lins. Kirby, Fortin, GiUen and Winters. (A complete identification woidd be appreciated.) 
QYanie^: or So^o, wnicli will purcftaie iL 
The Statue of Dante Ali­ghieri pictured here is being held in New York by a friend of Notre Dame, a collector, to give the University an opportunity to purchase the exceptional marble for the Dante Room of the Uni­versity Library. 

Alumni and friends of the University are familiar with the fart that the Dante col­lection at Notre Dame, begun by the late Rev. J. A. Zahm, C.S.C., ranks among the lead­ing sources in this country. A number of choice bronzes and marbles grace the special room where the library by the great Italian writer is housed. 
The library itself consists of 2,800 volumes, in forty languages. The collection is rich in incunabula and post-incunabula editions. Medal­L'ons and photographs are also included. 
The statue above is one-third life size. It is of white marble, exe­cuted in Rome in 1874 by Geronimo Punol. The exptession is remark­ably faithful to the majestic intellect associated widi the subject. 
The President of the University, impressed by the piece and by the urgent hope of the New York friend that the University will purchase it, is opening the necessary fund of ^850 to individual subscription. 
One gift of ^20 and two gifts of ^10 each have already been received. Contributions can be mailed direct to Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Indiana, or to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, BOX 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CMe9s 
A Qiemistty Building (see last issue of ALUMNUS) ^50,000 Julius A. Nieuwland Foundation for Chemistry and 
AUied Sdences (previously acknowledged ^18,902) u 450,000 Medieval Studies Library, current needs 2,500 Architectural Library, current needs 600 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the foUowing gifts: 
For slides for the Department of Architecture 
from the SoUitt Construction Company  ^400  
For the Roger Ryan Memorial Scholarship (previously ac knowl­ 
edged ^1,000)  from  a Bishop  30  
For needy students, from  an alumnus  100  
from  a friend.  90  
"  "  "  from  a fan  50  
"  "  "  from Grattan Stanford, '06  100  
"  "  "  from Harry CuIIen, '23  25  


Endowment Funds 100 Per Cent 
Lay Trustees Show 
Remarkable Record 
Net shrinkage of less than one per cent in the principal endowment funds during the past seven years was reported at the semi-annual meeting of the Board of Lay Trust­ees of the University of Notre Dame on Oct. 30. 
Two years ago, with all depression losses written off, the shrinkage of principal was estimated at 13 per cent, but rehabilitation of securities held by the board has brought the principal to 99 per cent of the actual subscriptions. Byron V. Kanaley, Clii­cago broker and president of the board, announced further that the surrender by the University of a por­tion of the interest due from the board on last year's investments has brought the fund to 100 per cent of the monies originally subscribed. 
This record was regarded as re­markable in view of the fact that it was currently stated two years ago that educational institutions general­ly had suffered a very substantial shrinkage in the principal of. their endowment funds. Mr. Kanaley at­tributed the success to the policy adopted by the board early in the depression of converting into govern­ment bonds all maturing securities. The proportionate distribution of in­vestments now stands as follows: 
Real estate bonds 14 per cent; Pub­lic Utilities, 17.5 per cent; United States Government Bonds 61.5 per cent; Preferred Stocks 6.0 per cent; Common Stocks 1.0 per cent. 
In addition to Mr. Kanaley, and the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University and an ex-officio member, the following men comprise the board; Matthew J. Car­ney, John Moody, William C. Potter, Frank C. Walker, Grattan T. Stan­ford, all of New York City; C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wisconsin; Pe­ter C. Reilly, Indianapolis; Edward J. Doyle, Chicago; Fred J. Fisher, De­troit; Angus D. McDonald, San Fran­cisco; George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis­consin; John P. Murpliy, Cleveland; Frank E. Bering, South Bend, and John H. Neeson, Philadelphia. 
METALS MEETING HERE 
Announcement has been made of the first joint meeting of the Chica­go and Notre Dame sections of the American Society of Metals to be held AprU 24, 1937, at Notre Dame. The Chicago section, including 750 men of the metallurgical industries and the educational institutions of the Cliicago district, is the largest in the country. 

By JOHN J. LECHNER. "37 
CAMPUS NOTES 
STONE GLEAMS NO MORE 
"I've felt the tread of many famous Notre Dame feet," boasted the Old Stone Steps, "Sorin, Corby, Zahra, Nieuwland, Morrissey, Cava­naugh, they helped make these pits and hollows in me." 
"Yes, that's true," conceded the Porch, "But it was in my shade that they sat and talked and made their plans." 
The Old Stone Steps and the Old Porch of the Administration building can debate no longer. They have been torn down and, as this is written, new steps and a new porch of the same style as the old have almost been completed. Thus t\vo more land­marks take their places in Notre Dame tradition. In summertime the coolness of the old porch's shelter was enjoyed by genei-ations of Notre Dame clergy who lived in the Main building. To the student body the old stone steps represented the barrier between graduate and undergraduate days. Reserved for faculty members, as will be the new steps, the old stone steps were used by students only on the day of their graduation when they took part in the academic pro­cession, formed in the corridors of the Main building, which preceded the Commencement e.\ercises. In former years any student daring to use the front steps to enter the Main build­ing was summarily tossed in the lake. And that tradition, unlike the Old Stone Steps and the Old Porch has not passed away. 
FIRE-FIGHTERS 
Election day saw Cavanaugh hall, new residence hall for freshmen, re­ceive its baptism of fire. A careless frosh tlioughtlessly threw a cigarette butt down a waste chute and smoke was soon pouring from the hall. That only negligible damage resulted is largely due to the quick-thinking of Phil Bondi, Sterling, Illinois, who was on duty as an election worker at the polls in the University gymnasium adjacent to Cavanaugh. Hearing cries of "Fire!" Bondi grabbed a fire extinguisher from the gym and legged' it to the threatened area. He succeeded in putting out the blaze before South Bend firemen arrived on the scene. Unfortunately for Bondi the firemen were not permitted to share the secret that the fire was out with the result that they unleashed a stream of water which met Phil with­out the benefit of an introduction. 
Final score: Cavanaugh hall saved; Bondi wet; the fireman who gave Bondi the wetting down four, doubled, in spades, due to the incompetent substitute who played the fireman's hand while the latter went to the fire. 
CRIME WAVE 
In this column we report the bitter with the sweet. We told you of Bondi's heroism, now it becomes our duty to tell of Alumni hall's one man crime wave. When the 
0. M. C. W. is discovered it will go hard with him since his victim is in no mood to quibble. This grim notice appeared on the bulletin board in Alumni hall: 
"Does the person who has been taking the Cincinnati paper realize that he is robbing the United States Mails and in so doing is making him­self liable to a little vacation in the penitentiary? What are you, Man or Mouse?" 
As we go to press search for tlie Mouse-Man, as Alumni hall sensation­alists have dubbed him, goes on un­relentingly with startling develop­ments expected hourly. We'll keep you posted. 
MONSIGNOR SHEEN 
Speaking on the genera] topic of "Philosophy and Communism" Mon­signor Fulton J. Sheen, noted radio orator of the Catholic Hour and out­standing philosopher from Catholic University, delivered a series of five lectures in Washington hall. The first night saw a near-capacity audience attend the lecture with copious note taking, hinting at faculty suggestion accounting in part for many of those present. The na\t day word began to seep about the campus: 
"Did you hear Father Sheen last night? Boy, you missed it! He's really got plenty on the ball." 
Before the lecture series was con­cluded students were almost literally hanging from the rafters. At least two hundred students the last three nights stood outside Washington hall a full half hour before the doors opened in order to insure themselves seats. If Catholicism can train others in its ranks, as Notre Dame is doing now in its program of graduate apolo­getics designed to develop Catholic writers and speakers, to take their places beside men of the caliber of Father Sheen, the threat of Commun­ism may be hammered into the ground, not by violence, but by logical expounding of principles. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
A great time was had by all on the student trip which saw Layden's Lads take the Soldier Boys down the line 20 to 6 . . . Needless to say everyone went pleasantly Turn compos after the Northwestern game . . . The way the gang clicked would have made any team in the country glad to settle for a fourteen point defeat . . . Scrip, campus literary quarterly made its first appearance of the year . . . Phil Welsh, Ander­son, Indiana, turned out a smooth sheet as his first eifort . . . The Scholastic, campus news organ, took a student poll on the election . . . Their iindings showed Eoosevelt win­ning by the same city block that he did nationally . . . However, there is no truth in the humor that Paul Foley, editor of the Scholastic, will go to the Literary Digest, after his graduation. . . . 
LUNN WRITES FOR "BULLETIN" 
Arnold Lunn, guest professor in apologetics and special lecturer in Washington hall, has been writ­ing articles on the subject of Communism for the Religious Bulle­tin using the question and answer method . . . Very effective . . . The football dances, held each Saturday night regardless of whether the team is at home or abroad are becoming a definite social feature . . . Many of the Astaires hope that they will con­tinue throughout the winter . . . The campus clubs are in a furore of activ­ity planning for their Christmas dances. . . . 
"CATALYZER" APPEARS 
The Catalyzer,. publication issued by the department of Chemistry, made its first bow under the direc­tion of Frank Burke, Portland, Ore­gon . . . Did you read Frank Wal­lace's wind-up of his SatEvePost serial? .. . It was built around last year's Ohio State game and even Frank's handling of what actually happened cotildn't make it seem plausible . . . Still is there anything very plausible in beating Northwest-em 26 to 6? .. . November 30 marked the 94th anniversary of Fa­ther Sorin's celebration of his first Mass at Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December, 1936 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. "32 
» » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
Northwestern Victory Climaxes Season 
Sports Editor, This Issue: Richard A. Riley, '37. Westport, New Yorlc. 
Notre Dame 26; Northwestern 6 
The stage was set and Notre Dame, true to the tradition that "the show must go on" played its part perfectly as the Wildcats of Northwestern were defeated before a capacity crowd of 56,000 football enthusiasts which jammed its way into the Notre Dame Stadium. 
This, second capacity crowd of the year, saw an inspired, fighting group of Irish players completely dominate a powerful Northwestern team for 60 misutes of top-notch football. North­western, harboring fond hopes of a national championship, was the fav­orite to defeat the Fighting Irish, by at least a touchdown margin. Those few hardy individuals who fearlessly placed their confidence in Notre Dame certainly never expected victory by such a decisive margin. 
Following the first few indecisive moments. Northwestern never had an opportxmity to assert itself, so com­pletely was its attack repulsed by an alert foe, anxious to regain its prom­inence in the national football pic­ture. The Irish were definitely "up" for this contest and their tackling, blocking and passing was reminiscent of that displayed during the Rockne era. 
This can not be justifiably termed an upset. Since Northwestem's vic­tory over the Minnesota juggernaut, the Wildcats had played rather slug­gish football. Wisconsin, unable to cross the Irish goal, scored three times on the Wildcats; and a week later Michigan, winner of only one game all season, held Coach Wal­dorf's boys to one touchdown and a field goal. 
Notre Dame, since the crushing Pitt game, had b'een definitely im­proving. The boys came back cour­ageously to defeat Ohio State, and then after falling out of step for the Navy game, overwhelmed a powerful Army team the next week. The Irish had not reached their peak before this game, but with the experience gathered in each of the previous sev­en battles, they steadily developed in­to a formidable football machine. 
The Irish began their practice of scoring at least once in each quarter early in the game. Notre Dame kicked off to Northwestern, Geyer 
1936-1937 Basketball Schedule 
De c 5 Kalamazoo College at Notre Dame De c 8—St. Mary's (Minn.) at Notre Dame De c 12—^Western State Tchrs. at Notre Dame De c 16—Northwestern at Notre 
Dame De c 19—Illinois at Urbana De c 23 (Tentative) De c 31—Northwestern at Evan­
ston 
Jan. 2—Chicago at Chicago Jan. 5—Kentucky at Louisville Jan. 9—Butler at Notre Dame Jan. 13—Pittsburgh at PitUb'gh 
Jan. 18—S yracus e at Notre Dame Jan. 23 Pennsylvania at Phila­delphia Jan. 25—Western Reserve a t 
Cleveland Jan. 30—(Tentative) Feb. 3—Purdue at Notre Dame Feb. 6—Illinois at Notre Dame Feb. 13—N.Y.U. at Madison Sq. 
Garden Feb. 15—Canisius Colleg e at Buffalo Feb. 20—Pittsburgh at Notre 
Dame Feb. 23—Marquette at Notre 
Dame Feb. 27—Butler at Indianapolis March 6—^Marquette U. at Mil­
waukee March 8—^Minnesota at Notre Dame March 12—^Detroit U. at Detroit 
returning the ball to his own 30 yard line. Two plays later. Heap after gaining six yards aroimd his right end committed the first of a series of disastrous fumbles, and Notre Dame took the ball on the Wildcat's 41 yard line. Notre Dame could do nothing through the Purple line, sur­rendering the ball on its own 49 yard line when O'Neill, back to pant, fum­bled the pass, and was dropped when he attempted to run with the ball. After Jefferson had punted on the fourth down to Puplis, who returned to his own 12 yard line stripe, O'Neill again went back to kick. Heap fum­bled the ball as Notre Dame tacklers swarmed around him, and Fred Mnn­dee recovered for the Irish on North­westem's 47 yard line. 
This was a real break for Notre Dame and they were quick to take advantage of it. On the third down, McCormick, diminutive right half back, circled his own left end for 15 yards to the Purple 31 yard stripe. The next play was the first of the two perfect plays executed by the Irish during the afternoon. The backfield to the right, the ball came to Wilke, the left half. Wilke started wide and then cut inside his "own right tackle, through the huge hole opened by the hard charging line, reversed his field and ran for the first six points with­out anyone touching him. Heap, the last Wildcat ^vith any chance to over­take Wilke, was dropped by a beauti­ful diving block thrown by left end, Joe O'NeiU. Puplis split the uprights with a perfect place kick as Wilke held the ball. 
The second period was nearly half over before the second Irish touch­down was scored. Before this time, Wilke had worried the Wildcats con­siderably by a 40-yard return of Jef­ferson's punt, only to be tackled by the ever-present Vanzo, when it looked as if he would get away for another touchdown. Northwestern, tmable to keep the ball, sent Toth back to punt. He received a high pass from center and seeing that he could not punt attempted to run with the ball, only to be dropped by half the Notre Dame front wall on the Purple 34-yard line. 
On the first play, Wilke duplicated his run of the first quarter, racing over his own right tackle and then diving over the goal line in the very comer of the end zone as two Wildcat defenders tried to stop him. It was Danbom's blocking which played a prominent part in the perfect execu­tion of this touchdown play. Vanzo blocked Puplis' attempted conversion. 
The second half opened with the Wildcats taking the ball on the kick­off and driving toward the Irish goal. On the fifth play. Heap's long pass, intended for Kovatch, left end, was intercepted by Puplis and Notre Dame started its own attack rolling toward the Purple end zone. The attack bogged down on the Purple 18 yard line and Pupils' attempted place kick was wide of the uprights. 

FOOTBALL BANQUET 

The annual football banquet will be held at Notre Dame on Monday, January 11, according to the announcement of Dillon J. Patterson, '20, chairman of the affair for the St. Joe Valley Club. Ticket* may be procured from Herbert Jones, '27, Athletic Office, Notre Dame. 
Nine minutes later, Notre Dame's quarterback called one of the most spectacular plays of the year. Toth had punted out of bounds on the Notre Dame's 27-yard line and the Irish prepared to put the ball in play. Noticing that the Wildcat backs were playing close behind the line in an attempt to stop the running attack, Puplis called a quick kick, and Wilke sent the ball sailing far over the head of the safety man. Heap. As Heap raced back to get the ball, he attempted to scoop it up on the five-yard line but it eluded his grasp. O'Neill recovered for Notre Dame on the t\vo-yard line. Wilke made a yard at left guard and then Danbom crashed over his o\vn right tackle to raise the score to 19-0. 
The final touchdo^vn was the result of Notre Dame's longest sustained drive of the day. Taking the ball on their own 12-yard line, the Irish marched to the Purple six-yard line. A pass from McCarthy, left half, to Vic Wojcihovski was ruled complete because of interference by Adelman on the Purple 23-yard line. With the third down coming up, the back field shifted to the right, the ball being passed to McCarthy. Len Skoglund cut around from his left end position. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and after taking a shovel pass from McCarthy, shook off three tacklers to travel the remaining three yards to the goal line. Beinor's conversion made the score 26 to 0. 
Only then, with the odds hopelessly against them, did Northwestern dis­play any of its vaunted power. With but seven minutes remaining in the game. Northwestern pushed the ball 77 yards for its only score, Geyer finally going over from the two-yard line. A 15-yard penalty against Notre Dame aided in keeping the attack functioning. Geyer's try for the extra point was unsuccessful. 
The charging and tackling of the Notre Dame front wall was the most vicious seen this year. Outweighed by several pounds per man, this cour­ageous line made up for It by the fight and drive which they put into their efforts. Joe O'Neill and Joe Zwers did fine jobs and repulsed all attacks directed against their posi­tions. Skoglund, who replaced O'Neill, played one of the finest games of his career climaxing a brilliant perform­ance by scoring the final Irish touch­down after circling the end and evad­ing tacklers with the ease of a half­
.back. 
Notre Dame 20; Army 6 

There was a big question mark be­fore the Notre Dame team on the aft­ernoon of Nov. 14 as they trotted out on the infield of Yankee stadium to play their twenty-third game with the Cadets of West Point. Could they re­turn to their early sason form as demonstrated in the Ohio State game, after having been beaten by a seem­ingly weaker Navy team the week be­fore? Some two hours later, this huge throng made its way out of the big 
The varsity coaching staff. Left 
to right, Joe Boland, Bill Cemey, 
Johnny O'Brien, Chet Grant and Elmer Layden. 
enclosure with the qaesti(m definitely answered. Notre Dame had come back with a vengeance to overwhelm a powerful Army team 2(1-6. 
JOE O'NEILL 

During the first few moments of play, it looked as if Army would re­pulse the Irish without too much trou­ble. Meyer, Army's triple threat half back was not as yet in the game, yet his understudy, Texas Jim Craig, was leading the march toward the Notre Dame goal. Taking the kick-off frpm fullback Simonich's toe, the powerful Army attack pounded its way to Notre Dame six-yard line. But with the ball on the six-yard stripe. Army attempted a forward pass in the end zone which was intercepted by Andy Puplis. Puplis showed excellent judg­ment under fire by not attempting to run with the ball as he was surround­ed by Army tacklers. Notre Dame took the ball on the 20 yard line. 
The first Notre Dame offensive was begun early in the second quarter after Wilke had intercepted an Army pass. Starting on their o^vn 43-yard line, Notre Dame made a sustained drive for their first touchdown. The march was featured by a long pass from Wilke to Andy Puplis which placed the ball on Army's 21-yard stripe. With Wilke and McCormick carrying the ball, Notre Dame fought their way to the Army one-yard line. Two plays later Wilke smashed over his own left guard for the first six points. Danbom's attempted conver­sion was wide of the uprights. 
The seediidl^otf e Dame touchdown came directly^^His'ISfie result ot an Army lateral which ^ent astray of its receiver.', Quarterback Martin at­tempted to lateral to Ryan but the ball went wide of its mark and Art Cronin rec^vfred for the Irish on the Army iWard line. The next play, which bought the second score, was one of the most deceptive of the game. The shift was to the right with Wilke getting the ball. It was a fake reverse with Wilke pretending to give the ball to HcCormiek, who continued on his way to the left, and then after waiting monientarily while the Army defense was drawn over, racing 
The Notre Dame Alumnus December, 1936 
JOE KUHAKICH 

through his own right tackle for the touchdown. It was so effectively ex­ecuted that two of the Army linemen tackled McCormick thinking that he had the ball. Puplis kicked the extra point. 
The final Irish counter came only a short time later. Craig attempted a pass deep in his own territory. Cap­tain Lautar, rushing the passer, leaped into the air to stop the ball in mid-air and then snared it out of Craig's hands on the Army 18-yard stripe. Danbom took up the task from this point smashing through the Army line on three attempts to the Army 3-yard line. On the next play, Andy Puplis scored on a quarterback sneak through his own right guard. Puplis also kicked the extra point. 
The only Army score came after this, on one of the finest exhibitTons of open field running by Monk Meyer, Army's great halfback who had been bottled up all afternoon by an alert Irish front wall. Notre Dame, with almost an entirely new team in the game, repulsed another Army on­slaught, taking the ball on their o\vn 10-yard line. The Irish could make little headway with the ball and Mc­Carthy was sent back to punt. Jack got away a fine punt which was taken by Meyers on his own 40, from which point he started on his touchdown sprint. The diminutive half back cut sharply to his left after almost being 
LABBY DANBOM 

knocked off his feet by the Notre Dame right end, and ran through nearly the entire team before finally crossing the goal line in the extreme comer of the end zone. Kopczak's at­tempt for the extra point missed its mark and the score read, Notre Dame 20-Army 6. 
Notre Dame was marching to a possible fourth touchdown as the game ended. Metz fumbled on the Army 40 and Notre Dame recovered. The game ended with Notre Dame in possession of the ball around the Army 20-yard stripe. 
Wilke was undoubtedly the most outstanding back on the field, but Nevin "Bunny" McCormick was the inspiration needed to start the latent Irish power. With McCormick in the back field, Notre Dame had a con­stant threat to the weak side. The extent to which Notre Dame used this threat may be seen by the fact that the first touchdown was. scored through the weak side, and the second score came as a result of the Army's attempt to guard against this men­ace. Most of the fullback plunges were also directed against the weak side. 
The game was won in the front line trenches as the Irish line, lead by Captain John Lautar drove the Army ball carriers back, after the first few minutes of play. Time and again, the Army passers were tackled far behind the line of scrimmage as the low charging forward line forced its way through the Army defense. During the third period Eyan and Meyer were thrown back for a total loss of 15 yards on three successive plays. The effective squelching of Meyer was the most serious blow to the Army hopes. The work of the entire line from end to end was par­ticularly fine as they proved the con­tention that the best pass defense is "to rush the passer." 
Notre Dame 7; Ohio Sute 2 

Ohio State came to Notre Dame determined to avenge last year's de­feat when the Irish scored three times in the final quarter to beat them 18-13. Notre Dame, following its over­whelming defeat at the hands of the enraged Pitt Panther, was definitely the underdog. Notre Dame showed that this was its favorite position be­fore a game, and outfought the Buck­eyes to beat them 7-2. 
The Buckeyes put on a last minute drive which was reminiscent of the game last year at Columbus (only at that time Notre Dame was doing the driving). Lead by their second string quarterback, Wayslick, Ohio State ran and passed its way to the Irish 12-yard line. At this point, the Buck­eyes attempted two short passes over the center of the line, both of which landed in the end zone, and Notre Dame automatically took the ball on its own 20-yard line and kept the ball until the end of the game. 
Ohio State scored first after recov­ering a fumble by Steve Miller, Notre Dame fullback, on Notre Dame's 20­yard line. The Buckeyes registered a first down, but were then held by Notre Dame on the three-yard stripe. Jack McCarthy went back to punt out of danger, but the Ohio men were not to be denied at least some consolation for having failed to put across the touchdown. As McCarthy kicked, Cap­tain Wendt, left end, crashed in and blocked the ball sending it flying out of the end zone. Ohio State lead 2-0 as Notre Dame took the ball on its own 20. 
The Notre Dame score came just before the end of the first half. Tak­ing the ball deep in their own terri­tory, after an exchange of kicks, the Irish drove onward toward the Buck­eye goal. The attack seemed to have bogged down on the 20-yard line so Elmer put little Bunny McCormick in at right half. On the next play, Mc­Carthy passed to McCormick on the two yard line where he was thrown out of bounds. Notre Dame lined up quickly and shifted to the left with the ball going to McCormick. The hard running little back started -ivide around the end and then cut sharply 
ART CRONIN 

over his own tackle into the end zone before the Buckeyes were aware of what had taken place. Wojcihovski 
•was rushed into the game to hold the ball for Danbom, who split the uprights for a perfect placement. 
With the beginning of the second half, Ohio State opened up with ev­ery play in their "razzle dazzle" sys­tem but the hard charging Irish for­ward line broke up the plays before they could get started. Notre Dame threatened t^vice more during the last stanza but were never quite able to make the needed distance. Ohio's only real threat was broken up with less than a minute to go and Notre Dame was able to stall them off and hang on to the hall until the final gun. 
(Continunl on Page 84) 

ALUMNI CLUBS . > 
The 7936-37 Board 

Arthur J. Hughes, 'II , Chicago, ill  President  
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio  First Vice-President  
Henry I. Doclcweiier, '12, Los Angeles, Cal  Second Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame  •  Assistant  Secretary  
Fred L. Steers, 'II , Chicago, III  Director  to  1937  
James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind  Director  to  1938  
Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Mich  Director  to  1939  
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., "15, Newark, N. J  Director  to  1940  
Bernard J. Voll, '17, South Bend, Ind  Director  to  1937  (ex-officio)  
Joseph Waldron, '36, Trenton, N.J  Director to  1937  

The 7936-37 District Governors 
Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind 
Fred L Steers, "11, Chicago 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa 
Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, Minneapolis, Minn 
Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich 
B. K. Wingerter, '26, East Orange, N. J Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, New Vork City John J. Huether, '22. Schenectady, N. Y Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass Anselm D. Miller, '25. Roanoke, Va Frank W. Thomas, '23. Tuscaloosa, Ala 
William Reisert, Jr., '29. Louisville. Ky 
Cyprian Sporl. Jr., '28, New Orleans, La 
D. Patrick Buell, '24, Dallas, Texas Daniel F. Foley, "23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan Clarence Ruddy. "27. Aurora. Ill 
Earl W. Brown, '93, Helena, Mont Ja.Ties P. Logan. '18, Denver, Colo Anton R. Hebenstreit, "11, Albuquerque, New Mex 
W. Breen McDonald, '17. San Francisco, Calif. 
Samuel M. Dolan, "10, North Bend, Ore To be elected 
AKRON 
William G. Burkhardt. '35. 50 Mayficid Ave., Akron, President: Lawrence H. Halter, '31. 58 Hawthorne Ave., Akron, Secretary. 
ARIZONA 
Vincent HenEesbach. ex.'27. 1710 E. 2nd St.. Tucson. President: Ted A. Witz. ex.'29. Box 628, Tucson. Secretary. 
At the first meeting of the Fall sea­son held in the room of Edmund A. Collins, '30, plans were formulated for the entertainment of the team and coaches on their visit in Tucson prior to their clash with the Trojans of U.S.C. 
 District I 
 District 2 
 District 3 
 District 4 
 District 5 
 District 6 
 District 7 
 District 8 
 District 9 
 District 10 
 District 11 
 District 12 
 District 13  District 14  District 15'  District 16 
 District 17 
 District 18  District 19  District 20  District 21  District 22 

Louis T. Weadock, '99, has moved to Holljrwood, California, to put the finishing touches to his latest hook. Mr. Weadock was a star reporter on the Chicago Journal -when Finley Peter Dunne was managing editor and B.L.T. (Bert Leston Taylor) was in charge of its "Little About Every­thing" column. This bit of news was learned from James D. Barry, '97, who also was on the staff of the Journal during the same period. 
Paul Schritke is now director of athletics at the State School for the Deaf and Blind, located in Tucson, and it is very interesting to know that Paul's boys are doing very well in state wide competition. 
James V. Robins, '14, of Nogales, Arizona, a classmate of Sockne, has been elected county attorney of Santa Cruz county. 
Steven Rebeil, '25, has been named manager of the household department of Steinfeldts. 
Christopher (Shipwrecked) Reilly has a new derby, and is quite upset that some one else in Tucson has been sporting one of the same kind of top-piece. 
About 50 of the local people are planning on making the trip to Los Angeles to see the game December 5, and will be making plenty of noise while the boys are in there. 
Ted Witz. 

ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Roberts. 1323 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Ark.. Secretary. 

BENGAL 
R t Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02. Dacca. Bengal. India. President; Rev, J. J. Hennessey, C.S.C., '02. Dacca. Bengal. India. Secretary. 

* BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Eugene O'TooIe. '20, 321-325 State St., St. Joseph, President: Frank A. Deitle. '26, Napier Ave.. Benton Harbor, Secretary. 
BOSTON 
James Dooley, '22, 368 Main St.. North An­dover, Mass., President; James Skahan. '31. 5 Grove St., Belmont, Mass., Secretary. 
BUFFALO 
John G. Byrne. '23, 149 Monroe Dr.. WD­liamsville, N. Y. President: Robert Meutr. '34. The Amhent Bee Co.. Main ft Bock Sts., 'WiniamsviUe, N. Y., Secretary. 
About 65 members and friends of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buf­falo enjoyed the excursion to Notre Dame for the Ohio State game, ar­ranged by the local club. The party left the New York Central terminal Friday morning, October 30, and ar­rived in South Bend that evening. The homeward trek began the fol­lowing Sunday noon. 
The trip was an enjoyable one. In the lounge-observation car the club set up a buffet bar and throughout the day served pop-corn, pretzels, po­tato chips, ginger ale and sparkling water. Through the courtesy of the Central, the guests were supplied with ice and glasses. Adding to the informality were individual name cards which the passengers wore. 
Enroute home, campaign speeches were made for both Roosevelt and 
78 
Landon, and residents of Elkhart were given the treat of stepping up to the observation platform and shak­ing hands with the President's per­sonal, but unofficial envoy. Bill Measer, '35. 
Two hundred enthusiastic Notre Dame supporters made the Notre Dame-Army game excursion to New York City on the Erie railroad spon­sored by the Buffalo club. The Notre Dame Special left Buffalo Fi-iday eve­ning, November 13, and returned to Buffalo the following Monday morn­ing. 
The partj' was split in New York Citj% half staj-ing at the Dixie Hotel, and the others at the Paramount. En route there was dancing in the lounge car, and the cafe car stayed open all night to accommodate the excursion­ists. The club owes a vote of thanks to the Erie railroad for arranging such an outstanding trip, and al­though there were very few of the club members on the train, the excel­lence of the excursion has given the Buffalo club additional prestige and has kept both the name of the Uni­versity and the club before the public. 
Encouraged by the success of the first two official excursions, the club is planning to run several football trips next year to accommodate the thousands of western New York N.D. fans %vho desire to take in a game but are uncertain as to the procedure in obtaining tickets. At this-time we want to thank the patrons, and par­ticularly those who sent letters telling us how they enjoyed the trip. 
Bob Measer. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-ni.) 
John Rohrbach. '23, Crown Point, Ind., President: Fred J. Solman, Jr.. "28, 6762 Erie Ave., Hammond, Ind., Secretary. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Richard S. Walsh, "31, 2191 Plaza, Schenec­tady, N. Y., President: John B. Land, 'St. 4 HedBewood Ave., Schenectady, Secretary. The Capital District Club is boom­ing along. An eventful gathering was arranged for the Ohio State game. The turn-out was large, and those few that did miss have no doubt al­ready regretted their absence. The broadcast was absolutely the high­light of the Fall season. Everybody came for two purposes—^to see and meet the rest of the fellows and to hear every detail of that well-played game. 
After the game a short business session was somehow or other man­aged. Just how we ever got into a discussion on club business essentials after that game is not for me to an­swer. Nevertheless we did, and the results were indeed gratifying. 
The club's scholarship fund which has long been the club's important 

The Noire Dame Alumnus 
topic of discussion has passed the embryo stage and is now an actual-it}'. Money is in the bank, and the fund will keep growing. So don't be surprised if you find a deserving young man, on the campus some mid-September, expressing his apprecia­tion for the Capital District Club. 
Secondary to the scholarship fund, but none-the-less of prime impor­tance, at the present time is our Christmas dance, which will be held in the Hotel Ten Eyck, Albany, New York, on Monday night, December 28. 
Legislative, judicial, and executive powers for this inimitable event have been vested in alumni hands. Thus, with alumni at the helm and full co­operation of the student body, which has been assured, this dance ^^•ill sur­pass all others. Tickets are out, and the program is definite. You will hear more about this dance. Proceeds will 

naturally  go  into  the  scholarship  
fund.  
John B. Land.  

CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes, '16, 1910 Oakland St, Lansing, President: J. Harvey Gauthier, '30, Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, '28, Perth Amtoy Nat'I. 
Banic BidB„Perth Amboy, President: John 
Lisicki, '31, 215 Water Street, Perth Amljoy, 
Secretary. 
The dance and Army ticket plan were successes, and after a short dis­cussion it was decided to make this an annual_affair, to be held on the eve of Armistice Day. Most of the credit for their success should be given to Ronald Armour and Anthony Guiffre, chairmen of the affair. 
I met Raymond Waters in New York City after the Army game. Eay, incidentally, is now employed by the New York Daily Neivs. His brother, Albert, is studying Law at the New Jersey Law School. 
Doctor George MacDonnell, of Freehold, informs me that Larry Carton has opened a law office in As-bury Park, New Jersey. 
Samuel Gioe is municipal super­\isor of recreation in Woodbridge, and is doing an excellent piece of work. 
Bill Wilbur, of Chicago, was down for the Army game and was the week-end guest of John Reager. 
It looks as though Joe Nnlty is living a life of ease. Since becom­ing a probation officer in Union coun­ty, Joe has gained 30 to 40 pounds. 
Our next meeting will be held with Andrew McDonough of Plainfield, New Jersey. 
A prayer is requester for William Gadek'z father who died on Novem­ber 5, 1936. 
John Lisicki. 
December, 1936 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hosier Realty 
BIdff.. Columbus, President. 
The Central Ohio Alumni group wants to congratulate Layden, his staff and squad for their season. 
The club extends sympathy to Jack and Dan Cannon upon the death of their father. 
Art Carmody was in Columbus en route to New York where he expected to see the Army game. 
Ray J. Eichenlaub. 
* 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
Leonard Burns, *25, 1635 20th Ave, Altoona, Pa,. President: WiBiam McAIcer, '31, 1518 19th Ave., Altoona, Pa., Secretary. 
CHICAGO 
Edward W. Gould, '23, 1313 W. Randolph 
St, President: Patrick F. Crowley. '33, 742 
Junior Terrace, Secretary. 
The affairs of the Chicago Club continues to progress in fine stj'le. The dance of November 7, which was held at the Knickerbocker Hotel was, according to the concensus of opin­ion, one of the most delightful that has ever been sponsored by the club. In checking the reaction of those who attended I was unable to uncover a single complaint. The general atti­tude can be characterized by a com­ment of Judge Marcellus Oshe to the effect that a list of those who at­tended should be preserved and used as a nucleus for another affair of that nature. 
The cultural efforts mentioned in our last letter whereby Frank Mc-Keever and others arranged for a lecture program enjoyed a propor­tionately greater success. They fig­ured that a gathering of 50 people would have filled their requirements. I am informed that almost 200 were on hand for the first lecture by Arnold Lunn, and that even a greater attendance is expected in the future. 
The only other activity was a luncheon held in conjunction with the Northwestern alumni at the Bismarck on the Friday pi-ior to the game. Be­cause Northwestern was represented by their fine coach, Lynn Waldorf, and the athletic director. Tug Wilson, they were better schooled in wailing, so naturally our spirits were raised. Frank McGreal made his debut as a representative of our group, and all are agreed that his services will be in demand hereafter. 
Patrick F. Crowley. 
* 
CINCINNATI 
Harry V. Crumley, '03, 2655 S. Harrison Ave.. Wcstwood Branch, President: Frank 
H. Sweeney, ex. '17, Kemper Lane Hotel,' Secretary. 
Friday, the 13th, was the occasion for our regular November meeting. Gus Dorais was the guest speaker of the evening, and he gave the boys present a very wonderful talk on Rodcne. In view of Gus' very close friendship with Rock, his talk was full of personal incidents and was enjoyed to the utmost by those pres­ent. Other talks of the evening were made by Clem Crowe, Commodore 

Ed McHugh and Larry Janszen. 
Following the meeting, Gus paid a visit to Howard Rohan. From all reports it was a pretty interesting session, and plenty of football was hashed over. 
On October 27 there was a joint meeting of the Notre Dame and Ohio State Alumni Associations at the Kemper Lane Hotel. It was in the form of a gab-fest, followed by a buffet lunch. Approximately 100 were in attendance, and the meeting has been termed the most successful one held in the history of the Notre Dame Club. It was the privilege of the two groups that evening to have representatives from both schools. Jim Armstrong and John Nicholson representing Notre Dame, while Ath­lectic Director L. W. St. John, Larry Snyder and Alumni Secretary John Fulien represented Ohio State. The talks were all mighty fine. The Ohio State group expressed the wish that this get-together be an annual affair. 
Joe Pieper, who is Connected with the HOLC, was present at our last meeting. It was the first time we had seen Joe in a long time, and we hope he will be with us on future occasions. 
Marchie Schwartz and John Polis­ky were in to^vn scouting the Detroit-U-Xavier game. Following the game, a few of the fellows, acquaintances of Marchie and John, enjoyed a get-together dinner at the Kemper Lane Hotel. 
The dance committee in charge of the Christmas part}' has about com­pleted arrangements, and they wish to announce to the Cincinnati cam­pus crowd the party will be held on the evening of December 26 at the Maketewah Counti-y Club. It will be in the form of a supper dance. 
Frank H. Sweeney. 

CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny. '28. 1660 Warren Road. 
Lakewood. Ohio. President; Lawrence Krai, 
•31, 276 E. 272 St.,CTcveland, Ohio, Secre­
tary.' 
Here's a bit of news on the Cleve­land-Notre Dame Christmas dance, which I am shooting in upon the re­quest of Larry Krai with the thought that it might be included under the Cleveland Club news as a supple­mental item. 
Your stooge (and apparently every­body else's) as general chairman of this year's fracas will be Clayton G. Leroux, past potentate and general clean-up man. So wish me luck. The date of the dance has been set as December 26. The place will prob­ably be the Rainbow Room of the Carter Hotel. The band has not yet been determined, but we are very anxious to secure music which will stir the blood of the younger group to a romantic pitch and will also soothe the worries and ease the creaks of the older "boys." 
Judging from the growing popu­larity of our Christmas parties, I find myself confronted with worries on how to handle the crowd rather than how to get them. I might consider myself as having joined the elite to­gether with your ticket vendors of Notre Dame football tickets. (By the by, and egad! but wasn't that a whooper-dooper of the game Satur­day [Northwestern]. I had Pat Can­ny, Gene Milliff, Jim DriscoU and John Collins gathered around the radio at home with Leroux, Sr., call­ing the plays and, out of that rabid crowd, I am compelled to say that Senior was the noisiest.) 
But back to the dance. I would like to have you list the committee members as follows: 
Publicity: Dennis J. O'Neill, chair­man; Tom Conley, Roger Brennan, Cleve Carey, James Bourke, Ed Schroeter (student). 
Tickets: Carl Martersteck, chair­man; Dr. Joseph Heimann, Jim Dris­coU, Gene Ling (student), Frank Svoboda, Thomas A. McGettrick. 
Music: Jack Collins, chairman; John Beljon, Louis Hruby, Dan O'­Brien, Ralph Kaiser, Mark Nevils. 
Reception: Cornelius Ruffing, chair­man; James Uprichard, John Dore, Thomas Mulligan (student). 
Enthusiastic co-operation has been assured by the women folks, and the hostess committee is being prepared to assist in the handling of tickets. 
In connection with the National Catholic Alumni Federation: it was thought that a word or two stating the fact that a Cleveland chapter was being organized; that the purpose of the organization was for the study of current social, economic and philo­sophical subjects; that it was directly • in line with similar activities by Notre Dame men in other communi­ties and also with the program of our national alumni group—that all these items might tend to stir up further interest on the part of our local alumni to the end that they might take a proper representative interest in the organization. To date the meetings have been quite well at­tended and the interest has been so great as to result in a discussion per­iod extending over one to two hours beyond the limit originally intended. This, to my mind, indicates a healthy interest, which should and has en­couraged a promising growth, but perhaps I lead you too far afield. 
With best regards to the gang and 
a particularly strong pat on the back 
to Elmer from the Cleveland Club, 
Clayton G. L«roiix. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Hany J. Deesan, ex, *S1. 100 Francis Ave,, 
Hartford, Conn., President; John H. Ciuei, 
•29, 500 Allen St,, New Britain, Conn., 
Secretary, 
* 

DALLAS 
James P, Swift, '24, 1202 SoQthwestem Life 
Bids., Dallas. President: Francis A. HeCnl­
louEh, '30. 917 First National Bank Bide, 
Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON 
Eusrene Mayl, '2-t. 400 Irvinsr Ave., Presi­
dent : William Cronin, '29, 418 Grafton Ave., 
Secretary,, 
Bill Cronin, secretary of the club, reports the first of a series of bi­monthly luncheons. The first one was held Wednesday, November 11. These luncheons will be held until Summer, and an invitation to attend is extended all Notre Dame men who may be in the vicinity of Dayton. The luncheons are held at the Bilbnore Hotel, in the Kitty Hawk room. 
The club is planning to hold a buffet supper December 5, after lis­tening to the Southern California game. 
DENVER 
Robert A. Dick. '29, 931 14th Ave., Presi­
dent: Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence 
St., Secretary, 
The club ran a special excursion trip to Notre Dame for the Ohio State game, and is already planning a similar trip to next year's Pitt game. 
* 

DETROIT 
Gilbert F. Schaefer. '26; 17380 Monica. Pres­
ident: John W. Brennan. '27, 632 Fisher 
Bids., Secretary, 
President Joe Norton called the members together for dinner and a business meeting at the University Club on November 11. A large group attended. 
Gilbert (Gil) F. Schaefer. 17380 Monica, Detroit, is our new presi­dent; Edward V. Crowe. 1234 Wash­ington Blvd., is vice-president; John 
W. Brennan, 632 Usher Bldg., is sec­retary; and George F. Costello, 1684 Burlingame, is treasurer. 
The dub feels very optimistic about our plans for the year now that Gil will be at the helm. You will, no doubt, hear good things from Detroit" as the plans which he out­lined unfold. 
The latter part of the meeting was devoted to development of our pro­gram for the TTniversity of Notre Dame Lecture Series which is being launched December 11 at the Detroit Institute of Art. The enthusiasm of the members at the meeting indicates that we will have a full house. Judge Thomas C. Murphy made a splendid gesture of co-operation, and men like Bill McCuUough, Jim Foren, Mai Knauc, Joe Norton, £<1 Crowe, George Riordon and many others at the meeting displayed ewdence that the program is an assured success. This might be a good place to add that the lectures are scheduled for December 11, January 15, February 19, and March 19. 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit will sponsor a Christmas dance, and plan to have the usual peppy co­operation of the boys from the cam­pus who will be home for the holi­days. Those of us who witnessed Gil Schaefer's Senior Ball know that our holiday party will be an "affair." 
John Brennan. 

DES MOINES 
Harry O'Boyle. '27, 2801 Grand Ave., Presi­
dent: Richard Hyde, 'SS, G78 26th St. 
Secretary. 

DUBUQUE 
C
 I. Krajewski, '16, 321 Bank & Insurance Bldff.. President: Henry I. Trenkle, '24, 180 

S.
 Booth St., Secretary. 


* 

EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon, '33. 401 Wysor Bids., Muncie, Ind., President: Alvis E. Grander. ex. '31, 617 S. Jefferson St., Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
. * 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem. President: 
Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jersey Zinc 
Co., Research Dept., Palmerton, Secretary. 

ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA Richard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times, President: Thomas Barber, "24, 416 New­man St., Secretary, 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY James Murphy, '22, 611 Security Bid?., Bridgeport, Conn., President: Joseph E. Russo, *32, 166 Housb Ave., Bridgeport, Conn., Secretary. 
* 

FLINT (Michigan) Stenhen J. Roth, '31, 723 Union Industrial BldB., President: Donald F. MacDonald. '31, 1631 W. Court St., Secretary. 
* 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullivan, '24, 125 E. Sutteniicld St., President: Herman G. Ccntlivre, '25, 322 E. State St.. Socretarj-. 

GRAND RAPIDS George E. Ludwig, '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave-, 
N. W., President: Raymond J. Bonini, "27, 607 Atwood, N.E.. Secretary. 

GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN Harold ti. Londo, '24, City Engineers' office. City Hall, President: Levi A. Geniesse, '24, 510 Mtnahan Bldg., Secretary. 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) Robert O'Callaghan. ex. '16, Gogebic Na­tional Bank, Ironwood, President: Francis 
J. Vukovich, *35. Ridge St.. Ironwood, 3(ich., Secretary. 

Our "One Man Gang," Eddie Sim­onich, is going great on the football 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
team. That pleases all of us im­
mensely. 
Joe Gill, '31, has a government job which appears to be a type of work that Joe is very much interested in. Information was passed on to me that he was in South Bend and at School for a few hours. 
Victor Lemmer, '2C, is the live wire of the club. With the football season on, he is in his prime, especial­ly in bets. So far, if I am not mis­taken, Vic has not paid his Eotarian dues out of his own pocket because of the manner in which the football team is coming along. 
Our president, Robert O'Callaghan, since his operation, is feeling very good. Bob is sorrj* that he was not able to see any of the Notre Dame games this year. 
I had the pleasure of witnessing the Notre Dame-Ohio State game. Frank Vukovich. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, '86, 338 S. Second St, Presi­dent: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentflchler Bldg., Secretary. 

HARRISBURG Edward C. Smith, '01, 2623 N. Second St, President; John J . McNeill, '33, Chevrolet Motor Co., Secretary. 
* 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wi..) Gerald J. Cleajy, '21, 310 Lake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Mich., President: Edward J. Dundon, *22, Iron Mountain, Mich., Secre­tary. 
* 

HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Hous­ton, President: Thomas F. Green, Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary. 
* 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN Lester Wisda. '31, 1016 E. Ganson St, President: Lyman Hill, '29, 224 S. Mechanic St, Secretary. 
* 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS Robert Baskerville. '31, 104 Youngs Ave., President: Clarence Wilhelmi, '18, 909 Oneida St^, Secretary. 
Our club enjoyed a delightful sum­mer, the principal gatherings consist­ing of two outings on the Kankakee River which were well attended. The first, a "stag" included games and contests of various sorts. Joe Adier easily proved himself the surf-riding king, with Joe Silk at the controls of the motor boat. Ed King had little difficulty in displaying his graceful­ness as a swan diver. Ward Loefller and Francis Dunn held a debate that seemed to have no end, on the Fall election, and so it went, far into the night with time out to enjoy a steak supper. 
The second outing included the ladies with swimming and dancing as the diversions. A real country-style chicken dinner was included in the enjoyment. 
On November 1 the club moved 
December, 1936 

into its new quarters in the West Pines Hotel which will be the seat of local activities in the future. The rooms were decorated in Notre Dame colors with a large panel as the back­ground for the monogram. 
On the seventh of November a cabaret party was enjoyed by 40 couples. On November 21 we en­joyed the broadcast of the Army game and followed up with a turkey dinner, so you see we have not been idle in Joliet. The affairs of the new club are being ably arranged and conducted by Joe Silk and Dr. Ed Mayer, and we have no doubt as to the success of the venture. 
The popularity of our Jimmy Burke rolled him into the office as our state's attorney, the only local Re­publican to withstand the Democratic avalanche. 
Clarence W. Wilhelmi. 
* 

INDIANAPOLIS Charles E. Mason, '26, Indiana Bell Tele­phone Co., President; Frank P, McCarthy, 
•28, 819 N. Gray St, Secretary. 

KANSAS 
Albert J. Gcbert, '30, U. of Wichita, Wich­
ita, Kansas, President; Dan Welchons, *30, 
623 Elm St, Ottawa, Kansas, Secretary. 

KANSAS CITY (Misiouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler, '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., President: Charles E. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas Ci^, Mo., Secretary. 
* 

KENTUCKY 
Raymond Pfeiffer, '32, 3032 Lexington Bd.. 
Louisville, President; John B. Ratterman, 
Jr., ex. '32, 2114 W. Market St, Louisville, 
Secretary. 

We are now making plans for our next big meeting scheduled for Tues­day, November 24, in the Brovm Hotel. 
All the fellows are looking forward to every one of our meetings, and each one is better than the one be­fore. Unlike other organizations with a cut and dried "get it over quick" method, our meetings are snappy and spicy. Smooth - mannered, President Ray Pfeiffer provides the fuel to keep the gab lively and in the right direc­tion. 
The dates, places, and other par­ticulars about two coming events, .Christmas dance and stag party, are up for debate at the next meeting. 
John B. Ratterman, Jr. 

LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Clarence Bunco, '25, 613 Ridge St, Presi­dent; Stephen Shapley, '30, Goodyear Tire Co., Secretary. 
* 

LOS ANGELES 
Eugene M. Kennedy, '22, Bank of America, 7th & Spring St, President; Douglas Daley, 'SO, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 

The first luncheon of the local alumni was held today at the TJniver­sity Club. Notice of the meeting was given by telephone, and although it was very short we had 17 in attend­ance, a list of whom is as follows: 
T. M. Clifford, J. H. Heilker, both "G" men with the local office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; Fred Pique, Dr. John Goecke, Ed Hogan, Tom Ashe, newly appointed assistant office manager of Emsco Derrick Equipment Company; Paul 
F. Berger, Larry Kennedy, Emerick Pagliatotti, James K. Marr, Judge A. A, Scott, Judge Thomas J. McKeon, Frank Barry, Thomas Hearn, Eddie Cunningham, Henry I. Dockweiler, Eugene M. Kennedy. 
Other news items of interest are that Nick Lukats, under contract with Paramount Studios, just finished a good picture called "Rose Bowl." Through the very efficient efforts of Emmett McCabe, our friend John Cos­tello was re-elected to Congress, and John Dockweiler Was also re-elected to Congress. 
Every Friday night for the past six weeks or more over Station KEHE, which is the Hearst Radio Station, either one of our boys or some well known resident friendly to the University has given a fifteen minute address against Communism. These broadcasts are being well re­ceived, and it is fine publicity for the University and 'Alumni Association. 
We are all looking forward to the big game between Tom Lieb's Loy­ola team and Buck Shaw's Santa Clara team. Charlie Cusack, of the Chicago Cusacks, is on a hunting trip in the wilds of Mexico, but will be back in time for the big game on December 5. 
Gene Kennedy. 

LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St, New Or­leans, La., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bide, Kew Orleans, LB., Secretary. 

MANILA Eduardo Roxas, *33, 719 Exchanee, Manila, President; Leopoldo Brias, Manila, Secre­tary. 
* 

MEMPHIS Sturla Canale. '35, 620 S. Belvidere, Presi­dent; Lavin McMicholas, '36, B91 N. Treze­vant St., Secretary. 
MIAMI, FLORIDA Vincent C. Giblin. '18, 4103 Collins Ave., Miami Beach, President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. '34, 1617 N. TV. Ninth Ave., Miami, Secre­
tary, 
* 

MILWAUKEE Joseph Griffin, '28. 210 E. Michican St., President; Jean LaBoule, '29, 524 E. Mason St., Secretary. 
* 

MONTANA William B. Jones. '28, 411 Power BldK.. Helena, President; Rev, John Reean, '24. Bishop's House, Great Falls, Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY 
Raymond A, Geiger, '32, 44S Eastern Park­
way, Irvington, N. J., President; Daniel 
O'NciU, '26, 184 N, Walnut St., E. OraOBe, 
N. J., Secretary. 

Competition from an impending Election Day didn't keep 40 alumni members from turning up at the Essex House the evening of Novem­ber 2. The usual business program received more than its share of lengthy discussion and you can guess the reason when you learn that one topic covered the question of tickets for the Army game. 
We didn't need guest speakers to keep the meeting in session but we lived up to our announcement prom­ises by actually having guest speak­ers, two extremely interesting sports writers in the persons of Frank Gra­ham, of the New York Sun, and Charlie Moran, of the Star-Eagle. Only the sudden approach of time to catch a last train prevented the speakers from going on until after midnight; their stories of recent ex­periences with things relating to Notre Dame made the night memor­able for all members. Incidentally, the alumni audience was made up of members of classes ranging from 1920 to 1936, further evidence of renewed interest taken in New Jer­sey Club affairs by local alumni members. 
Somewhere in the heat of discus­sions plans were announced for the Christmas Holiday Dance. William Quirk, 1936, has been appointed chairman; His cooperating chairman from the campus club is Bill Bruno. The date and location of this dance will be made known to you later. 
Dan O'Neill. 

NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norbert Gelson, '26, 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn, President; Warren S. Fogel. '30. 70 Wall St., Secretary. 

Our big event of the year is now over, and many of the officers of the club here are breathing sighs of re­lief, but we all agree that everything was well worth the trouble. . 
On November 12, our annual ticket distribution for the benefit of the scholarship fund of the club was held at the Centre Club, being the princi­pal part of our regular monthly meeting. Twelve elated prize win­ners were drawn, a total of 26 tickets to the Army game being given, and the financial success of it was exceed­ingly gratifying to us, for it assures the placing of another New York boy at Notre Dame for the next four years. 
Another noteworthy achievement of the meeting was the fact that Johnny Law, in giving his slant on last Saturday's game, said that our boys should take Army easily. This, of course, put Elmer strictly on the spot, and the way he and the boys delivered, is proof of it. 
On Friday morning, the team ar­rived at the Westchester Country Club, and many of the members jour­neyed there to hold an informal meet­ing of welcome. That night Coach Layden came down to the city to broadcast under the club's auspices over Station WLWL, and both the broadcast and the results are very pleasing. We officers then took Elmer and Joe Boland, among others, to dinner and later to the Notre Dame press party at the McAlpin. 
Our big event, of course, was the dinner dance at the Pennsylvania Hotel after the game. Everybody was naturally in a gay mood, and things went off in great style. About 350 members and their friends sat down to dinner, and some 200 came in later for the dancing. Frank C. Walker, '09, chairman of finance of the Democratic National Committee, acted as toastmaster after being in­troduced by President Gelson and the other speakers were Father O'Hara, 
Jim Crowley, '25, Elmer Layden, '25, Father MacNamara, '97, Father Mc-
Hugh, rector of Cathedral College in Brooklyn, Joe Byrne, '15, and Eddie Dooley of the New York Sun. 
Among the guests were Frank Wallace, '23, who seems to be having his own edition of the Saturday Eve­ning Post, Father Doremus, chaplain of the team for the game, and Hugh O'Donnell, '94. "Bugs" Walther, '25, provided his usual excellent music. 
The next morning at 11 o'clock Mass at St. Paul's Church, many of the members gathered to hear Father O'Hara preach the sermon. Needless to say, his message was excellent, be­ing directed against the grave menace of Communism. 
Our trip to the Navy game at Bal­timore was a huge success, some 200 members and friends of the club go­ing down. The game itself was a bit disappointing, but last Saturday more than made up for it. 
Warren Fogel. 
* 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Mark G. Krcutier, '24, 311 California St., 'Rxn. 524, San Francisco. President; Elmer Wynne. '29. c/o E. S. Townsend Co., 15th Fl., Russ Bids., San Francisco, Secretary. 
.* 

NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams. Jr., '29, 106 Gallatin 
Road. Secretary. 

OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran, *32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. 
President; Marion J. Blake. *33, National 
Bank of Tulsa Bld£r., Tulsa. Secretary. 
The only news we have is that we 

are planning a state-wide dinner for 
• the evening of December 5, at the Mayo Hotel at 7:00 P.M. 
From all indications it should be 

The Notre Dame Alumnus December, 1936 
the largest yet held. I shall give you all the gory details later. Joseph A. Moran. 
* 

OREGON 
Samuel M. Dolan. '10, 4726 N. E. Alameda 
Drive. Portland, President; J. Bon Sullivan, 
'30, 611 Board of Trade BIdg., Portland, 
Secretary. 
* 

PARIS Louis P. Harl, "16, Paris Office. New York HeraJd-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA 
Bradley Prescott. ex. '31, Central Illinois 
Usht Co., President: Ai Gury, Jr., "28, 
612 Albany Ave., Secretary. 

Over 80 boarded the Peoria-N.D. Club Special to the Ohio-State game. It was some game and some trip. Larger and bigger specials are planned for 1937. Fred Meyers, Bob Rainey and Al Jury, Jr. arranged the details. Many thanks to the Alumni Office for the fine help and informa­tion given for the trip, and especially to my friend. Bill Dooley. 
Many of the crowd that went to the Ohio State game are attending the Northwestern game. I wish to express sincere thanks to the Kock Island and New York Central lines for the fine help and courtesy ex­tended to the Peoria-N.D. Club Spe­cial. 
We are having a meeting next Tuesday and planning on our Christ­mas dance. Father Bourke Motsett was the chaplain on the Peoria-N.D. Qub Special. Guests on the special were Paul R. Hcrschel, Jr., president of Herschel Manufacturing Company, Dr. Clarence Ward, specialist, donor of the famous Dr. Ward's farm to the Peoria-N.D. Ciub picnics, Spalding Slevin and Dr. Van Sant, famous Notre Dame alumni of Peoria, Philip Hauler, mayor of Morton, Illinois, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles Motsett, 
• parents of Father Motsett and Bill Motsett. 
Smokes and refreshments on the trip were furnished free through the courtesy of the Peoria-N.D. Club. 
AI Gury, Jr. 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hnitert, '22, 402 TiUe & Trust Bide., Phoenix, President. 
* 

PHILADELPHIA 
W«Iter Ridley, "SI. 6824 N. ISth St, President: A. J. Wackerman, '35, 5356 Chew Street, Secretary. 

Would that we could get a bigger crowd for the Mass for deceased N.D. men, held this year on October 31, with a slimmer attendance than ever. Shame on yonse"guys! 
By way of contrast: a record gath­ering_ assembled for the November meeting, at which time the drawing for the Army game tickets was held. 
The Degan boys, Henry and Gerard, again broke the precedent by not win­ning the pasteboards but were, as usual, the best salesmen in the club. For some reason this meeting always seems to be the banner one of the year from point of I'iew of attend­ance, and faces appear that are in camphor for the balance of the sea­son. 'Twas a good session, though, and it did these old eyes wonders to see Bill Bodo, the Ironman, Charlie Dougherty, the accounting whiz, Vince Donohue, just returned from Chicago, Jim Nolan and Joe Dalsey. 
Plans for the Christmas Dance are irapidly taking shape, and Chairman Jack Reilly is dictionarj'- hunting these days to find words to replace "bigger and better." Pat Conway, who joined our ranks since coming to coach West Catholic High, is one of the best workers on the committee. He tells us that chauffeuring ClifF Prodehl gives his lots of exercise. 
These Philly lads are going cul­tural with a vengeance, for December will find them in the Franklin Insti­tute Planetarium and Wonderland of Science. This trip is to serve a two­fold purpose: to stimulate mentally, and to aid financially the cause of the Tabb Memorial. Under the hand of Bill Castellini, which seems to have absorbed some of the magic of his surroundings while handling Institute publieit}-, we are assured of seeing something unusual. 
Several of our group have signed up with the Philopatrian Club, where our monthly meetings are held, and it looks like a move in the right direc­tion, as several Catholic colleges are represented and a diversity of opin­ion is always stimulating. 
Johnny Moroney, the West Phila beer king, has taken the field against Ed Bailey in the Baby Derby. While the Moroney team has one triple threat, our money is on Bailey be­cause of greater reserve strength. (Ed will soon have two complete sets of backs!) 
President Dutch Ridley went bridge-building up in the Pennsyl­vania mountains, and we miss his gavel-pounding although his assist­ant. Bill Cooney, has been doing a swell job in his absence. 
Jesse James will be the latest to join the ranks of the benedicts. The knot will be tied Thanksgiving Day, and Jesse can start saving up the cost of train fare betiveen Reading and Prankford. 
Adrian Wackerman. 
* 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Hobcrt W. Powers. Jr., e c '29. 22 Roseland Ave., Cranston, R.I.. President: John R. Jolly, ex. '18, 457 Pawtucltet Ave-, Paw­tucket, R. I.. Secretary. 

ROCHESTER. (New York) 
Frank Norton, '32, 80 Beckwitb Terrace, President; D. Bernard Hennessy, '34, 119 Bedford St., Secretary. 

William F. Bleakley, Republican candidate for governor, spoke on the occasion of our Notre Dame dinner in the Rochester Club, Wednesday, October 21. Jlr. Bleakley's remarks were well received. 
Our dinner was a splendid success. It was well attended and well flav­ored with real Notre Dame camarad­erie. Joe Flynn secured as our fea­ture speaker, John A. Doyle of local detective accomplishment. The ap-" propriateness value was superb. Brought to light on the occasion was the fact that Al Roach, '31, is now-connected with the New York State Parole Board. Al was able to elab­orate on Mr. Doyle's comment about Parole and the relation it bears to our crime problem. All in all, we had quite an exhaustive treatment of our topic. By the time the eve­ning was over we knew about ber­tillion, plastic surgery, the glory of the G-men, second story stuff and al! that. The ALUMNUS must have been tossed in the waste basket in favor of True Detectives the next day. 
A meeting was held at the Roch­ester Club on Monday, November 16, for the purpose of formulating plans for the Christmas dance. The Rochester Club has already been se­cured for the night of December 26, and to insure some real rippling rhy­thm for our gala soirees we have des­ignated Bill Jones, Glenn Hatch, and Joe Flynn as the committee in charge of music. 
Fran Norton is back in town after a jaunt to New York to see the Notre Dame-Army game. Unlike some of us, Fran remained undaunted by last year's return trip through the snow­bound CatsMUs. Even this year he found that history repeats itself. He brings glowing accounts of being rocketed heavenward to skyline apartments, and of swinging with the super suave. 
Larry Carpenter is having it just too tough these days. Larry went down to the game but thought that he might just as well spend an extra week down there. The onus of keep­ing track of his wage dividends from Eastman Kodak Company is begin­ning to tell on the lad. We hope the sojourn in Manhattan will mend the jangled nerves. 
Jim Gleason, Jerry Smith and Bill 

Jonei, all have plans. However, for 
the confluence of insurance enlighten­
ment one must look to Dick Tobin, 
'34. Dick doesn't sell insurance, but 
he has been such a pet prospect of 
this triumvirate that he has absorbed 
enough to set himself up as a past . master of this profession. 
Gleaned at our dinner the other 

night was the fact that Fred Erdle, '35, is manipulating the merchandise methods at one of our local depart­ment stores. It was also gathered that Tommy Burns, '32, is combin­ing coaching with teaching at Brock-port. 
Ward Schlotzer was recently pre­sented with the newly created war­rant of merit by the Slager Band Post of the American Legion. It is understood that this is the first award of this kind made in the United States, 
Don Elser is coming to town Sun­day with the Boston Shamrocks. The last team which Don opposed in this city folded up. We are hoping that the transplanted Brooklyn Tigers which are representing Eochester will meet with better fate at the hands of "Devastating Don." 
The holiday season with its abil­ity to send some of us blossoming Buddhists abroad in the night should provide a plethora of anecdotes suited for this version of Village Veneer. 
D. Bernard Hennessy. 
* 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Paul J. Fry, '21. 210 W. Third St. Dixon. HI., President: Gerald Jones, '2Z, 105 E. Second St.. Dixon. HI.. Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Diclmann. Jr., '23, 107 Tlielma Drive, President: Edward G. Conroy, *30, 204 E. Crais PI., Secretary. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Rudolph Kelly, e-t. '17, 909 S. Park Ave., President: Paul D. McConnell, "32, 120 S. Walnut St., Secretary. 
A committee of Oliver Field, chair­man, Frank Zimmerman, and Earl Worthington, has been appointed to delve into the entertainment ques­tion for the holiday season. 
Charles Corcoran, '17, returned 
for the Ohio State game. Frank 
Branson, '28, and John Carroll, '28, 
contemplate seeing the Northwestern game. 
Barney McGlone, '31, who was for­merly with the niinois Highway De­partment, has accepted an engineer­ing position with the -Simmons Con­struction Company of Decatur. 
George Zimmerncan, '32, grabbed himself off a political job in Washing­ton, D. C, as did his brother Ralph. 
The club is working in conjunc­tion with the K. of C. planning a banquet for the Cathedral Boys High School football team. 
Two Notre Dame lawyers ran for the office of State's Attorney in Mc-Henry county, William Carroll de­feated Waller Kelly. 
For myself, I am looking forward to the class reunion in June. Paul D. McConnell. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis F. Buddcy, '28, 718 E. Corby Blvd.. South Bend, Ind.. President: Clarence Hard­ing. *25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., Secretary, 
The first part of the ambitious schedule set forth by the Notre Dame Club of St, Joseph Valley comes to a successful close with the end of the home football season. The last of the pre-game smokers was held in the Columbia Athletic Club the Friday evening before the Northwestern game. 
The club had the privilege of act­ing as host to the Old Timers and, without another thing on the pro­gram, ha\'ing them as our guests would have been sufficient entertain­ment and attraction to more than re­pay the large audience for their at­tendance. For Notre Dame followers had an opportunity of seeing and hearing men whose actirities have made many of Notre Dame's tradi­tions. Bobby Lynch former baseball star from Green Bay, Wisconsin, stole the show with his Irish songs. 
But that wasn't all the committee had arranged. Joe Casasanta intro­duced the 1936 edition of the Notre Dame Glee Club; Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Exaviiner, and Elmer Layden talked of the Northwestern game; pictures of the Notre Dame-Army game, sho^vn for the first time any­where, were included in the program; and a battle royal between four Negro boys wound up the progi-am. 
Al Doyle acted as master of cere­monies, while Norbert Engels and Paul Boehm were the co-chairmen who deserved praise for getting to­gether so entertaining a program. 
A smoker was also given before the Notre Dame-Ohio State game in the same place. Features of this were talks by Francis Wallace, '23, whose football articles in the Saturday Eve­ning Post and Colliers are enjoyed by all; Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune sports editor; Elmer Layden, Warren Brown, Chicago Herald and Examiner sports editor; and a host of other sports writers and celebrities. 
Music and entertainment for the affair were furnished by Bill Furey, Howard Ziffrin, Pat Patterson, Clar­ence Harding and members of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Paul Butler acted as master of ceremonies. 
Clarence Harding. 
ST. LOUIS 
Robert HellninB. '30, 306 N. Grand Blvd.. President: David J. Rcilley, Jr., '30, 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretary. 
The club ran a special excursion trip to the Notre Dame-Ohio State game on October 31. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Midugan) 
Thomas F. Tan Aarle, "21, Staadara OO Gk>„ Sasinaw. Hicb., Piesdent: WnUam C. Hnr­ley. '25, 117 Chenr St.. Sazinaw, Mleh., Secretary. 
* 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Han ; J. Corcoran, '27, 82 Fort Wataon St., CortUnd. N. Y.. President: Donald J. Shee­hy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave., Syracuse, Secretary. 
* 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Hebnore St. Presi­dent;-Fred J. Wagner, '29, 1S2 Sycamore St , Secretary. 
:fc 
TOLEDO 
Norbert Seharf, '26, Toledo Edison Co., President: Joseph L. Wetli, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
* 
TRI-CITIES (IlUnois-Iowa) George tThlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Light Co., Moliae, SI., President; Elmer W. Beaten, T.T-B., '27, 1711 W. Sixth St. Davenport la.. Secretary. 
* 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Joseph Hunt, Binghamton, President 'Wil­liam Yeager, '34. 18 Vine St. Binghamton, Secretary. 
* 
TRI-STATE 
F. Wendell Lcnsing, '30, 601 Bayard Park, EvansvUIe, Ind., President: Ralph F. Heger, '25, 111 Washington Ave., Apt D., Evans­ville, Ind., Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES (MinnetoU) 
Gerald F. Conway, '32, David Inc., First Nat'l Bk. Bids., S t Paul, Uinn., President: .Joseph R. Schroeder, '31, 219 Fremont Ave., 
K.. Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
Jerry Conway is getting the Christ­mas party lined up but no formal an­nouncement as yet. The club met last Saturday afternoon at the Tlni­versity Club in St. Paul and listened to Northwestern game. Yon can im­agine how we feel—after Northwest-em dumped Minnesota — and then having Notre Dame swamp North­western. Tops! The club will get together again on December 5 to lis­ten to the Southern California game. 
John D. Yelland. 
* 
UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bids.. Salt lake City, President: Cyril Barbeeke, '19, 64 F. St, Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
* 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Gas ft Electric Bldg.. President: Joseph W. Fnllem, 
•31, 1621 Neilson St . Sctretaiy. 
* 
WABASH VALLEY (Indian.) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton, Ind., Presi­dent. Emmett Ferguson, '32, Wallace Bldg., Lafayette, Ind., Secretary. 
* 
WASHINGTON, D. C 
Thomas S. Markey, '29, Shoreham Bldg., Washington, President: Paul Bereti, '27, 815 18th St , N.W., Washington, Secretary. 
This is my first report to you in the capacity of the newly elected secretary of the Notre Dame club of Washington. Here are some news items which may interest you and posably the readers of the ALUMNUS. 

At a meeting of the club held No­vember 10, the following officers were elected for the coming year: Thomas S. Markey, '29, president; Charles O. DeBarry, '24, vice-presi­dent; Paul O. Beretz, '27, secretary; Andrew C. Auth, '34, treasurer. The newly elected Advisory Committee 
consists of: Dr. James A. Flynn, J. 
D. Hayes and Arthur J. Berg^man, 
This meeting followed the annual Navy-N.D. football game on Novem­ber 7, which, aside from the score, was the focal point of a pleasant week-end for local alumni. The team arrived here early Friday morning, breakfasted at Catholic University, and then parked at the Wardman Park Hotel. In the early afternoon, the squad and accompanying delega­tion visited the White House in a body, and were personally greeted by the President of the United States. Next, the team limbered up at the Georgetown Prep football field, and after spending the night at the hotel, left for Baltimore (45 miles away) early Saturday morning by bus. After the game, which was attended by Washington alumni almost to a man, the squad trained out of Baltimore for South Bend at 6 P.M. 
A. C. Auth, '34, reports that Air. and Mrs. E. J. O'Brien, '34, of Pitts­burgh, were here for the affair. 
Markey reports that Tom Garver, '32, 
was married recently. 
Paul O. Beretz. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson. '28, 32 Farmlnston Ave., President; James M. Monashan, *27. 4-4 Ayer St., Secretary. 
* 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
John J. Dempsey, *95, Dempsey Lumber Co., Tacoma, President: Eobert L Pigott, "32, 3603 W. Manning St, Seattle, Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Joseph Bach. '26. Fort Pitt Hotel. Presi­dent: Wnliam Masarrall, '32, U39 Franklin Ave., Wilkinsbura Secretary. 
I regret deeply that business obli­gations didn't permit me to get down to the gathering at the Fort Pitt Hotel before the Pitt game as I planned to do. As I told you earlier, I was certain to collect a great deal of material for this issue of the ALUMNUS, but by the time I got there everyone had gone home. Here are a couple of items you might insert, however: 
Jim O'Toole was elected to Pitts­burgh Cify Council last Friday. He 
took the place of Cornelius D. Scully 
who, as former president of council, moved into the mayor of Pittsburgh's seat as a result of the resignation of former mayor William N. McNair. 
I am told that John J. Kennedy, Class of '09, has been selected as a 
ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 76) 
Despite the numerous showers dur­ing the afternoon, there were surpris­ingly few fumbles. Most of the Ohio fumbles were directly due to lateral passes which were thrown ivildly as their ball carriers were rushed by alert Irish defenders. On the few oc­casions that Notre Dame fumbled, it was the result of vicious tackling by the Buckeyes which knocked the ball from the Notre Dame ball carrier's arms. The wet ball had little, if any effect on the accuracy of Tippy Dye's passes on those rare occasions when he was able to get the ball away. 
This game uncovered another fine fullback in the person of Simonich, big 200-pound Sophomore, who was inserted into the fray after three of the fullbacks had been injured. Be­sides ripping the Buckeye line to shreds. Big Ed did some fine blocking, clearing the way for the other backs. By his fine work, he served notice on the other fullbacks that they would have to play their best to keep him from replacing them. 
Notre Dame 0; Navy 3 
Following the Ohio State victory, Notre Dame moved into Baltimore prepared to sink the Navy without too much trouble. Before the after­noon was over, they had come to the conclusion that the Navy line, was as invulnerable as the steel used in those Navy cruisers, when their goal line was in danger. Notre Dame might run through the line and pass over their heads while their goal line was in no eminent danger, but once in­side that 10-yard line, the Navy de­fense stiffened perceptibly and Notre Dame was unable to cross their goal. 
The Irish started the first of their four major drives immediately after 
special assistant city solicitor in charge of utilities in Pittsburgh. 
Tom Havican insists he is "an hum­ble servant" in attorney general Charles G. Margiotti's office, working between here and Harrisburg like a Greyhound bus. So Tom and Penn­sylvania's attorney general have much in common, apparently. 
Bill Magarrail, Jr. 
* 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Thomas F. Howley, '11. Citizens-Feoplea 
Trust Co., •Wheeling. President: George S«r-
EUS, '28, 2111 Behnont. Bcllaire. Ohio. 
* 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Horan. '29, 1348 Quinn, President: 
Charles Cnshwa. '31. 46S Madera Ave., 
Secretary. 
* 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister Elizabeth Seton. S.C., S t Harys College, Holy Cross, Ina., President Sister M. Angclice, B.VJI.. Secretary. 
the kick-off. Starting on their own 39­yard-line stripe, with Wilke and Woj­cihovski doing most of the ball toting, Notre Dame pushed its way to the Navy four-yard line. AVith four downs to make the necessary yard­age, Simonich, in for the injured Danbom, fumbled as he was hit on the one yard line and Ferrara recov­ered for Navy. Navy punted out of danger to end this threat. 
The other three offensive thrusts were effectively broken up by an alert Navy defense. The most import­ant of the drives ended when O'Reilly, in at quarterback, caught a fourth down pass over the end zone. On two other occasions, passes dropped in­complete in the end zone for touch-backs. 
With the opening of the second half, Navy began to strike back with its running and passing attack. After seven minutes of play had elapsed, O'Neill kicked from the coffin comer to Ingram on the Notre Dame 45, from which point this great Navy back lugged the ball to the 22 yard stripe. Ingram carried the ball around end to the 12. After he and Schmidt had made four more, Ingram at­tempted a pass to Antrim which went through the Navy back's fingers. On the next play, Ingram dropped back to his own 17-yard line and dropped a perfect field goal. These three points proved to be the margin of victory. 
ALUMNI AT HOME GAMES 
(Continued from Page 70) 
Fuhrman, '17, Detroit; W. H. Ewing, '28, Weston, Ohio; Gerry Morsches, '26, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Harold Moylan, '25, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Norb Mizerski, '34, Chicago; Eussell 
J. Stemper, '34, Chicago; Oliver F. Field, '31, Springfield, Illinois. 
Bernard McGlone, '31, Decatur, Illi­nois; Maurice Weber, '24, St, Joseph, Michigan; John C. Cameron, '33, Keokuk, Iowa; Mack E. Trombley, '30, Mt. Clemens, Michigan; John M. Miller, '17, Akron, Ohio; F. J. Henne­berger, '31, Princeton, Indiana; Wal­ter F. Kolb, '30, Mt. Carmel, Illinois; Joseph E. McGraw, '18; Tulsa, Okla­homa; Charles H. Miltner, '31, Cadil­lac, Michigan; James T. Foley, '13, Chicago; Paul R. Martin, '09, Marion, Indiana. 
John G. Hemming, Jr., '34, Janes­ville, Wisconsin; Marc Verbiest, '17, Detroit; James Foren, '22, Detroit; Bill Cronin, '28, New York City; George Ratcgan, '29, Chicago; Bill Motsett, '34, Peoria, Hlinois; Joe Langton, '28, Peoria, Hlinois; Frank 
C. Walker, '09, New York Cify; John Kanaley, '09, Chicago; Francis King, '19, East Moline, Illinois; Jim Martin, '23, Chicago; Gerry Jones, '22, DLxon, Illinois; Thomas E. Coughlan, '33, Whiting, Indiana. 

THE ALUMNI * . 
Engagements. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Marianne E. Kmiecik and Richard N. Konkonsk!, '30, of Chicago. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Ann Cahill and Clemens Theisen, '32. 
Marriages 
Miss Josephine Mary Zwers and Henry J. Rusche, '21, were married October 31, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marie O'Brien and Ralph M. DeGraff, ex. '25, were married No­vember 4, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Barbara Temm and Dr. Ber­tram! D. Coughlin, '26, Were married October 24, in St. Louis. 
Miss Mary Lahey and Walter E. Cahill, '31, were married October 14, in Chicago. 
Miss Kathryn C. Dum and Richard 
J. Breen, '31, were married in St. Hilary's Church, Chicago, last August 8. 
Miss Ruth MUer and Charles Quig­ley, '32, were married November 10, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 

Miss Marie Ruth Parent and D. Edward Troy, '33, were married No­vember 21, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Bemice Rider and James D. Ash, '33, were married November 16, in St. Gerard's Church, HoUis, New York. 
Miss Florence Rokos and Andrew 

J. Pilney, '36, were married Novem­ber 7, in Chicago. 
Miss Gertrude Nowak and George Ireland, '36, were married November 26, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Jeanette Bauerlein and James 

P. Conboy, ex. '31, were married No­vember 26, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Ind. 
Miss Elinor Dillavou and Louis William Vesey, Jr., *36, were married November 26, in South Bend, Ind. 
Miss Ruth E. Busart and Louis Hutchinson, ex, '30, were married November 26, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Vivian John and Richard Trant, '28, were married last August 19, in Cambridge, Nebraska. 
Miss Geraldine Murphy and Ed­ward M. O'Connor, '33, were married last August 1, in Buffalo, New York. 
Miss Dorothy Craig and Frank Deschamps, '35, were married No­vember 18, at Palm Beach, Florida. 
Birfhs 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Frawley, '14, announce the birth of a son, Henry James, Jr., on October 12. 
Mr. and Mrs, Herbert E. Jones, '27, announce the birth of a son, Herbert Michael, October 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. A. Edward Jenkins, '28, announce the birth of a son, Daniel Robert, November 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Ferry, '31, announce the birth of a son, Robert John, last June 28. 
Mr. and Mrs, Roland N. Dames, '33, announce the birth of a son, John Joseph, November 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred MacBeth, '33, announce the birth of a son, William McLeod, November 2. 
jVIr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Cough-Ian, '33, announce the birth of a son, Thomas J., November 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Moynihan, '34, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, October 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Chapleau, '30, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, November 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Butler, '27, an­nounce the birth of a son, Paul, H, November 25, 
Mr. and Mrs. Clark Wallace, '28, announce the birth of a son, John William, October 25. 
Deaths 
No sermon was delivered at the funeral of John W. Eggeman, LL.B. '00, in Fort Wayne, Indiana, on No­vember 17. His life. Father Mono­han said, was his sermon. 
And so it is that no space in this magazine, which he helped to found, and filled so frequently as president of the -Association, leader in the Old-Timers Reunion last year, president of the Fort Wayne Club, speaker at this or that function of alumni or civic group, spokesman for Catholic activities, and all of the other ideal phases of the Notre Dame man,— can describe to more advantage the life of this great alumnus which ended Saturday, November 14. 
The Judge's great figure was not deceiving—^he had won monograms in football, track and basketball at 
THE JXTDGE 
May he rest in peace! 
Notre Dame from 1897 to 1900. And always he kept that love of exercise and sports. 
But in addition he had the keenest appreciation of the cultural and spir­itual advantages of Notre Dame, and was their most ardent apostle in the ivide circles of his friends. 
He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Mary Wagner Eggeman, distin ­guished alumna of St. Mary's, one son, Robert, '30, and one daughter, Mrs. J. Clem Fox, all of Fort Wayne. Bob is practicing law in the firm founded by his father when the judge returned from service over­seas with the K. of C. in the World War, 
This is small tribute for a great man, but it is in the memories and the prayers of Notre Dame men that he achieves a monument only true greatness such as his can erect. 
Notre Dame was represented at the funeral in Fort Wajme by Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, who acted as deacon of the Mass, Rev. 'Fhomas Steiner, CS.C, and Rev. John Far­ley, CS.C, classmates. Rev. E. Vin­cent Mooney, CS.C, Prank W. Lloyd, 

The Notre Dame Alumnus December, 1936 
and Robert B. Riordan. James E. Armstrong, alumni secretaiy, was a pall-bearer. 
Dr. Samuel P. Terry, '83, died at his home, 1834 San Jose Avenue, Alameda, California, November 6, after a long illness. Dr. Terry, 75, retired from his practice ten years ago because of ill health. He had specialized in successful research in oxygenation, particularly in tuber­cular infection. 
Students before 1900 remember him as an ardent correspondent in building up the alumni records of the men of that period, a project tremen­dously helpful to the Association. 
An active member of the Masonic order. Dr. Terry was also a most active and interested alumnus of the University. He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Mary Terry, two sons and a daughter. 
PauIJ.'Vath, A.B. 1929, died Oc­tober 24 at'his home, 107 East Sixth Street, Sidney, Nebraska. 
The Religious Bulletin records the death of Gregory Franzwa, B.S.C.E., 1932, Salem, Oregon. 
Two distinguished holders of hon­orary Doctorates of the University are among the month's mortalities. 
The Rt Rev.' Ms'gr. John J. Burke, C.S.P., LL.D., 1930, distinguished Catholic journalist, died in Washing­ton, D. C, Oct. 30., Monsignor Burke was a former editor of the Catholic World and was one of the founders of the Catholic Press Association. He received the D.S.M. for services dur­ing the world war. 
Ernest R. Graham, LL.D., 1926, architect of the Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce on the Notre Dame campus, died Nov. 22 in Chi­cago. Mr. Graham, head of the firm of Graham, Anderson, Probst and White, was internationally known for his great buildings in Chicago and New York. 
The ALUMNUS extends its condol­ences in the death of: a brother of Timothy T. Ansberry, '93; the father of Rev. Henry Glueckert, C.S.C, '16, Fred, '22, and Charles, '25; the mother of Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C., '23; the father of Rev. Joseph Too­mey, '26, and Francis, '34; a sister of George Jackoboice, '31; and the father of Jesse C. Dickey, '33. 
Personals 
Before 1880 secretary: Hon. T.H.GO]­
lacher, Fitchburg, Mass. 
* 

1880-1885 Secretary: Prof. Eobert M. Anderson. Circlecnie, Ohio. * 
1886 S^<:retaiy: Hichael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Ramilton, Obio. 
1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Heineman, Connersville. Indiana. 
1887 GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION 
June 4,-5, 6 

1889 Secretary: F. E. Barke, 301 Camp New Orleans, Louisiana. Patrick E. Burke wrote in late Oc­tober that he and Cyp Sport, '28, also of New Orleans, expected to be in New York for the Army game on November 14. 
1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute. 7 
Univ. Av., Afinneapolis, Minn. 

1DQ4 Secretary: Hugh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 67th St., New York City. 
1895 Secretary: Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phclan Bids.. San Francisco, Calif. 
1896 Secretary: Wmiam P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., Michisan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara, St. Jos. Sanitarium. Mt. Clement, Mich. 
Father William P. Burke, pastor of the Church of the Visitation in Ke­wanee, Illinois, gave a mission for Catholics and non-Catholics in Sacred Heart Church, near Lakeville, just south of South Bend, from November 8 to 15. Ordained in 1900, Father Burke has had a remarkably varied and successful priesthood as secretary to the late Bishop Lancaster Spalding, of Peoria, student at the Catholic University, missionary and pastor. (He even officiated at the marriage of the Managing Editor.) 
Father Burke has made a particnl­lar study of Shakespeare and of as­tronomy. He addressed the students of St. Mary's College on the former when he was in this vicinity. 
Father John MacNamara, with John Neeson, '03, kept up his string of Army games by attending the en­counter in Yankee Stadium on No­vember 14. Both Father Mac and John have seen 'em all from the be­ginning. Father Mac was one of the speakers at the dinner-dance, spon­sored by the New York club, which followed the game. 
* 

Iggg Secretary: William C. Keeler, 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
William F. Montavon is the author of a remarkably fine article in a re­cent Catholic Action, organ of the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence, on the address of the Holy Father to 600 Spanish refugees on September 14, 
lg99 Secretai;: Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 JeSerson Blvd., Peoria, HI. * 
1900 
1901 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 130O, 139 N. Oark St, Chicago, Jll. 
1902 Secretary: C. C. MitcheD, 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicago, 111. 

1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. 
J904 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart. Indiana. 
James R. Record, Fort Worth, Texas, visited his nephew on the campus on November 10 and greeted the Alumni Office. 
Joseph J. Meyers, an attorney in 

•Carroll, Iowa, was back on the cam­pus for the Northwestern game, his first visit since his graduation 32 years ago. 
* 

1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSallc St.. Chicago, HI. 
1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally. 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 
Father Ed Finnegan, C.S.C, Army chaplain in the World War and pas­tor of Sacred Heart Church on the campus, is much in demand as a pub­lic speaker. Many of his recent ap­pearances have been before, or in behalf of, American Legion groups. 
Francis Joseph O'Shaughnessy, the famous Shag of Notre Dame football 
• and baseball, %vas recently elected president of the International League. Lawyer, broker, soldier, football coach and baseball executive Shag, to borrow words from the New York Herald-Tribune, has had a Horatio Alger career since the days when he left the sandlots of Illinois and came to Notre Dame. 
Says the Herald-Tribune further: 

"Just a few months ago Shag was displaced from the driver's seat of the Montreal Koyal's baseball club because the team was laboring heav­ily and could not make the play-off grade. A year ago Shag had piloted the Royals to their first International League pennant in forty years. 
"His unanimous appointment to the-presidency of the International League has been well received. Base­ball officials and fans alike believe that it was fitting that he should have won the nomination. They say it was his shrewd, practical brains and convincing personality which saved the league from a pauper's grave. 
"It was Shag who virtually forced the International League to adopt its present play-off system which has backfired a great many dollars into 
the treasuries of the cluhs and the league. 
"Shaughnessy's one promotorial venture, founding a Canadian base­ball league, ended when his supply of red ink was exhausted and war was declared. After the war, in which he served as a captain of Cana­dian field artillery, he was manager of the Hamilton, Ontario, team in the Michigan-Ontario League. Later he moved onward and upward to the In­ternational League as manager of Beading and Syracuse in turn. He then coached the Detroit Tigers for two seasons. 
"His one lapse was his entry into the brokerage business. He soon re­formed, however, and returned to sports as manager and later as busi­ness manager of the Montreal Koyals." 
1907 Secretary: Ber. Thomas E. Burke, G.S.C., Notre Dame. Ind. 
1908 S<=°^tary: Frank X. Cull. Bulkley Building. Cleveland. Ohio. 
1909 Secretary: E. F. Clear;, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1910 Secretary: Rev. M. I.. Moriarty. 1900 Euclid Ave., Qeveland, Ohio. 
1911 Secretary: Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank Bide., Chicaeo, HI. 
Father Francis J. Wenninger, 
C.S.C., dean of the College of Sci­ence, discussed the liturgy of the Catholic Church before the Catholic Forum of South Bend in November. Louie Chapleau, '30, presided at the session. Louie Buckley, '28, is sec­retary of the organization. 
* 
191 2 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser. 321 Fourth St, PittshurBh, Pa. 
1912 SILVER ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt, 921 En­^neers' Bid?., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1914 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of America Bid?.. Anaheim, Cal. 
-}gj5 Secretary: James E. Sanford, 1524 Farwdl Ave.. Chicago, 111. 
-Jgjg Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Bids., Hammond. Ind. 
191 7 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St., Elgin. III. 
Your secretary, Ed McOsker, has done, and is doing, a grand job of stirring up enthusiasm for the twen­

-tieth anniversary re-union of the class next June. Here are a few samples of the results to date—with more to come, he hopes. 
John Cassidy wrote from the Jef­ferson Building, Peoria, Illinois: 
"Thanks for your letter of Octo­ber 20th reminding me about the '17 reunion next June. No one can claim he did not have ample notice. 
"I shall look forward to hearing more about your plans as they de­velop and will do all I can to swell the attendance." 
President Art Hughes, LL.B. '17, chief executive of the Alumni Asso­ciation, has his law offices in the Mc-Cormlck Building, Ciiicago. • He writes: "I want to sincerely congrat­ulate you on your aggressiveness and industry in getting our your first let­ter in connection with the reunion of the Class of 1917, eight months be­fore the date of our twentieth anni­versary get-together. "When I finished reading your letter there wasn't any question but what I was going to be in attendance and I have even made a definite memorandum of the matter on my calendar, so that I can begin shaping my program to be away from the office two or three days at least. 
"I have had occasion to appear be­fore several of the Notre Dame Clubs in the East recently and it is surely a great experience to find so many loyal, energetic workers on behalf of Notre Dame among the ranks of our Alumni. It gives a much greater meaning to that term we hear so often, 'The Notre Dame Spirit.'" 
Art will set some sort of record by having two big re-unions in two years. His 1911 class has its silver anniversary re-union last year. 
Oscar Dorwin bulletins from 135 East 42nd Street, New York City: "I have your bulletin of October 20th announcing our twentieth anni­versary. This is just a word to yoa to let you know that I am going to do my best to be there." 
Jim Hayes is assistant solicitor with the Veterans Administration, Washington, D. C. Here's his word: "Received your circular letter an­nouncing plans for the reunions of the '17 class in June and so far as I know at this time you can count me among those present. 
". . . . at the present time I am de­tailed from my own job assisting the Social Securities to get going but will be back in the harness in veterans' work very shortly. 
"Barely see any of the '17 crowd although Brian Odem was here in the Spring for a day or two. He is now located at Houston, Texas, as assist­ant district attorney. Bill Haberer and Tiny Baczenaz are also members of the local contingent, and a month ago we had the pleasure of having a short visit with Art Haflie*.'* 

Freddie Maliaffey, secretary and treasurer of the Consolidated Finance Corporation, Consolidated Building, Indianapolis,, says: "I received your bulletin on the Reunion of the 'Sev­enteeners next June, and was sorry to hear that it was twenty years, but glad to hear from you again. 
"I liave been pretty regular in at­tending commencement without any excuse, and I am sure I will be there this June, with the promise of a siz­able return of-the old "War aass." I will certainly do all I can to round up the boys here." 
Henry Brosnahan, manager for the International Harvester Company, in Minot, North Dakota, comes through on the dog sled with this: "We were interested in receiving your bulletin of the twenty year reunion to be held next June. We appreciate the difficulties facing a class secretary in matters of this kind. 
"We should like to learn through your next bulletin or through the class notes in the ALUMNUS, about the plans of some of the '17 lawyers including J. P. Doyle, George Wind-offer, Vince Vanglun, Jaha Stark, Red Byrne, Dan Qninlan, Steve Mc-Gonigle and Joe Flynn and others. 
"In the meantime yon can put our name tentatively on the list of ac­ceptances." 
* 
J918 Secretary: Jolul A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave., S.. Escanaha. Mieli. 
jgjg Secretary: Clarence Bader, 6S0 Fierce Street, Gary, Ibidiaxta. 
Two Notre Dame men, Patrick J. Murray. '19, and A. Edwin (Gus) Jenkins, '28, assisted in coaching the Williamsville, New York, high school football team, which closed its '36 season by winning its 19th straight victory. Not since ealy in October, 1934, has the team lost a game. 
It is a record of which the school can well be proud, as there is not an­other high school in western New York state, including BuiTalo, which can boast of such an acliievement. The team uses the Notre Dame sys­tem, and eye-witnesses describe the '36 outfit as "a team of matchless perfection for a high school squad." 
Another sport in which Pat shines is baseball. He was on the squad when at Notre Dame and later played pro. Pat is the assistant principal of the school. It was Gus and Pat who made arrangements for the school squad to view the Cornell-Dartmouth game on November 14. 
* 
1920 Seoctaiy: Im B. War l 1012 Black BMr.. U* Angcta. OiM. 

Secretary: Dan W. DuSy, 1600 Term­
1921 
inal Tower. Cleveland, Ohio. 
Callix Miller, of South Bend, was recently chosen as a member of the executive board of the Architectural Society of Northern Indiana. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letic Club, Buffalo, New York. 
* 
1923 ^c^^^^^ - Paul Castner, Sdwards Homemobile Co., South Bend, Ind, 
* 
1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. F. Ped­rick & Co., Emp. State Bldg.. N.Y.C. 
192S Secretary: John W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St.. Chicago, HI. It looks as though the Editor will have to start riding Pullmans to get a rise out of the Class Secretarj', or shall we impeach him? He's alive; I saw him in Chicago recently, and he's moved, in fact was pleasant. 
Adam Walsh was a pleasant sur­prise visitor in the Alumni Office. Adam is doing a fine job at Bowdoin, developing a line that rivals the neighboring rockbound coast. 
Ralph Heger was up from Evans­ville for one of the games. He is one of the chief promoters of Ster­ling ale and beer and the Notre Dame Club there. 
Jerry Holland, Detroit News, and Dan O'Neil, A.T.&T., New York, both near the pearly gates this Summer, reported for Ohio State and Army tickets, only slightly scorched. Jerry had a major operation, and Dan had pneumoma in the oldest traditions. One thing about O'Neil's illness, it brought the Faith back to a number of his '25 brethren. "God moves in a mysterious way. . . ." 
Charley Bickel, the architect, is back in that profession in Elkhart, Indiana, after one of those strange interludes that the architects partic­ularly fell heir to. 
George Bischoff stopped for a quick hello on a football week-end. Still the Indianapolis insurance merchant. 
Bill Cemey has been helping that other '25er, Layden, work on the raw material this year. The fine hand of the old fishmonger still guides a po­tent path through opposing lines. 
Speaking of Cemey brings Tom Coman, the old sports •nTiter, to mind. Tom is handling Indiana and Michi­gan politics for the AP in Washing­ton, and the Cemey and Coman fam­ilies look like the Roosevelt vote. 
John Droege has been a regular at the St. Joe Valley Club smokers this Fall in South Bend, along with Clar­ence Harding, the ivorj' tickler. 
Virge Fagan has become the far­mer's friend, as an editor of Sears and Roebuck's invaluable catalog. 
Firmin Futz was up for the O.S.U. game from St. Louis, but failed to bring Bob Howland along, at least to the oflice. Howland probably couldn't re-route the Mo.-Pac. for the trip. 
Word has just seeped through from the plains that Vincent Harrington, "Tubby" to you and his bathroom scales, has just left the Iowa legisla­ture for the Congress of the United States. 
Bill Hurley came down from Sag­inaw for one of those crowded hours on a Saturdaj' afternoon. 
Clarence Kaiser was found alone in the caf one noon, scouting the campus and the Chemistry depart­ment. 
Father Tom McAvoy is back in New York studj'ing this year. 
Frank Naughton has been on the campus this Fall, building up a little sports writing in training for a forth­coming job. Said he saw Dan Sam­mon here the Northwestern week-end. 
John Moran found his way back from Denver this Fall for a visit, but Mrs. Moran couldn't stand Chicago's low altitude, and John's visit was cut down to the football game. 
Norb Sfcelley was one of the longer distance visitors for the Ohio State week-end, from Salina, Kansas, and like the other boys, felt the trip was worth it. 
Francis "Bugs" Walther is emerg­ing as one of the New York's popular orchestra leaders. Anyone who re­members his pre-views of Cab Callo­way from the roof of Badin Hall isn't surprised. 
Henry Wurzer has been Elmer's Davenport adviser in the games this Fall, covering the home games and most of those abroad. 
And now, as a special treat, see what the Eastern Underwriter says about John P. Traynor: 
John P. Traynor, newly appointed deputj' superintendent of insurance in the New York Insurance Depart­ment, has had many years of experi­ence as an accountant and adminis­trative company official to qualify him for his new activities. Until re­cently he has been in charge of the liquidation of the New York "Ktle & Mortgage and has been financial offi­cer since the company was taken for rehabilitation in 1933. Mr. Traynor fills the departmental vacancy caused by the resignation of Edwin W. Pat­terson who has resumed his teaching at Columbia University but who will continue to serve the Department as a consultant. Superintendent Pink is using this depntyship in order to secure especially qualified expert ser­vice for the Department. Professor Patterson, an outstanding authority on insurance law, was appointed to 
assist in the proposed recodification of the New York Insurance Law. Mr. Traynor has been selected because he can be of great help to the Super­intendent in solving the many com­plex and involved questions now pending in the rehabilitation, liquida­tion and reorganization of the title and mortgage companies and other insurance companies which have been taken over by the state. While Mr. Traynor acts as deputy at 80 Centre Street the liquidation of the New York Title & Mortgage will he car­ried on by Milton Goldman, assist­ant special deputy under him. When the important special work on which Mr. Traynor is now engaged is fin­ished, he will return to the New York Title & Mortgage as deputy in charge. 
Bonus Offer: Anyone writing John 
W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St., one page of news, is entitled to two pages, double spaced, of personal opinion about the addressee. 
1926 Secretary: Dr. Cerald W. Hayes, 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Orange, N.J. Just by way of keeping up with the Armstrongs of '25, the Managing Editor comes out of hiding to say that: 
There was a miniature '26 re-union 'round about New York on Novem­ber 13-14. In the McAlpin on Fri­day night Tom Sheridan, Dan O'Neill and Indianapolis Charlie Mason joined me in greeting Art Haley, Larry O'Keefe and Dick Collins, all within 15 minutes. 
And '26 was prominent in the New York Club dinner-dance in the Penn­sylvania Hotel after the Army vic­tory. Doc Gelson is president of the club and presided at the dinner. I was at the table vntli Eddie Fallon, Tom Burke and Wade Sullivan and later in the evening we talked with Vic Yawman, of Rochester, New York. Wade and his wife and an­other couple were on a vacation trip; they returned by way of Notre Dame to take in the Northwestern game the following Saturday. The old Walsh inmate is postmaster and a leading attorney in Algona, Iowa, and a very proud father. Ask him to show you his snapshots. 
Tommy Farrell was also in the Pennsylvania that night and looking for me. Sorry I missed you. Tommy! Incidentally I called our worthy class secretary in the course of the week­end, but he was out of his oflice, peddling cod liver oil to the New Jer­sey babies. These babies! I can re­member when Hayes contributed to the AttrM>fus once every year. 
I had dinner on Sunday with Wink Wingerter and we spoke often and much of the '26 New Jersey crowd, but as far as I can recall now there 

•was no special dirt. Wink is doing exceptionally well with the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. 
Going through the '26 Dome alpha­betically: 
Congratulations to Norb Arehart on his recent marriage! 

Bud Barr and Joe Bailey are regu­lars at the alumni re-unions each June. Never see Conlin any more, though. 
Art Bidwill was down from Chi­cago for the Northwestern game, looking none the worse after his strenuous campaign for state auditor in Illinois. Like most of the Repub­licans, Art had to take the count. 
Sid Bower was in from Detroit this past Summer and came all the way over to the Ave Maria print shop one day for a pleasant chat. Sid is on the Detroit Neivs. 
I saw Dan Brady in Detroit last Spring, on Universal Notre Dame Night. He's exactly the same Dan. 
Father Bemie Coughlin is still teaching at St. Thomas in St. Paul. 
I had a couple of letters from Lew Cody this Fall but I didn't happen to see him at any of the games. 
Ed Crowe is the newly-elected vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit—Gil Schaefer is now presi­dent—^while Clem is fathering a small army in Cincinnati and coaching at Xavier. 
Frank Deitle, of Benton Harbor, Michigan, is the very able secretary of the Berrien County Notre Dame Club. 
I had a wire from Bob Doran, Rockford, Illinois, in September re­garding a prospective student, but haven't seen him in a couple of years. 
Norb Engels, local professor (both 

N.D. and St. Mary's), is, among many other things, a leader in the Notre Dame unit of the Catholic Poetry So­ciety. He recently lectured to the student body of St. Mary's on the poetry of Father Charles O'Oonnell. -A.nd he will, if coaxed, also talk to luncheon clubs on dueling. 
Attorney AI Foley, of South Bend, with his vnie had to take the Dooleys as next-seat neighbors at the home games this Fall. 
Father Leo Gorman is presiding this year as rector of St. Edward's Hall. He was one of the 80,000 in the Yankee Stadium on November 14, too. 
John Griffin is with Cooper, Kana­ley & Co. in Chicago, but I haven't seen him or heard from him in many 
a. moon. 
I talked with George Hartnett a couple of times on the 'phone this Fall and he's still selling peanuts wholesale in Chicago. 
I think there was something in a previous ALUSINXJS this Fall about Paul Johnson, Kokomo, Tony Roxa*, Manila, and Cyp Sporl, '28, New Or­leans, all meeting in London some months ago. Or am I thinking of three other persons? 
Hap Kiley is still with the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company in South Bend. I had a long talk with him at the smoker on Friday night before the Northwestern game. 
Jim Kelleghan is in the financial advertising business in Chicago. He was down for the Lay Retreat last Summer and we spent one evening together. 

Frank Klein, I think, is still keep­ing the Peoria Journal -Transcript afloat, although I haven't heard from him in heaps of months. 
Mai Knauss is one of the most ­active spirits in the very active Notre Dame Club of Detroit. 
Pete LaCava, with his wife and daughters, furnished very entertain­ing musical entertainment at one of the St. Joe "Valley Club smokers this Fall. 
Vic Lemmer spent a happy Fall listening to the exploits of his Iron­wood, Michigan, boy Simonich, Soph­omore fullback on the football squad. 
That other Glee Clubber, John Lenihan, is the most asked-about '26 man, it seems. Who knows where he is? "The Alumni Office has no address. 
El Mahoney and Joe Sexton were a couple of other '26ers who made the Retreat last Summer. Both are in Indianapolis. 
I spent an evening with Bill Moore, in the home of Tom Coman, '25, when the Dooleys were in Washing­ton last Summer. Bill was with the NYA. 
Harold Robertson is in the New York area now after a long residence in South Bend. 
Jack Shouse, according to Prof. Cooney's latest dope, is still a hotel man in Lexington, Kentucky. 
And Joe Shea, I'm told, is also still , a hotel man—Chicago representative for the Statler hotels. 
Go to Father Joe Toomey when you're in Syracuse. He has charge of the Catholic charities and could probably put you up for the night. 
Forest Swartz was up from Akron for a day last Summer. Father Bill Green is teaching in Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa. Is there a Doctor Hayes in the house? * 
192 7 Secretarr: Binund DeQerq. 8118 Ellis Ave.. Chicago. HI. 
192 8 Secietary: Lcmis Badder. n s K Corby St. Sonth Bend. Ind. Ed McCormack ciasbes through beautifully with the following: 
I have luncb with Hal Hudson fairly regularly, and Hal is still head of the radio writers for Columbia Broadcasting in Chicago. He tells me that Dick Elpers is still selling radio time for Columbia, and I un­derstand that John Timlin is doing similar work. Of course Bill Murphy is still with National Broadcasting, and among other things, is writing a well-known radio feature: "Flying Time." Yours truly is tangled up in several programs for the Blackett-Sample- Hummert Agency, including among others Orphan Annie. That's the way it goes for some of Prof. Cooney's ex-journalists. 

Fred Collins, the fair-haired full­back, is also supposedly mixed up in radio in some manner. Another for­mer gridiron gink. Jack Chevigny, confines his radio activities to an oc­casional address in his capacity as football coach. I ran into Jack one Saturday at Lincoln Relds, and he said he would gladly part with the mutual ticket he was cashing if his team could get another crack at N.D. And that's the radio round-up, at least among the Chicago contingent. 
Here is the regular Buckley dope —as good as ever: 
The Northwestern game brought a number of 1928 men back to the campus. Among those who stopped in at the class secretary's house to celebrate the victory yere: Art and Mrs. Gleason and their three cWldren from Akron, John Herbert, who is traveling for a religious goods house, from Syracuse, Vince Walsh, from Monticello, Illinois, Joe Langton from Peoria, Mr. and Mrs. Jim Allen, Ray Mulligan and Frank Pendergast from Chicago. 
I had an interesting letter from Connie Ochoa, written after he had just listened to the broadcast of the Army game. He said that the thought of what was to follow in the Big Town made him long for New York, his friends there and everything that is connected with it and them. His sister, who is a nun in Spain, man­aged to escape alive through the in­tervention of the Mexican ambassa­dor at Madrid. 
Connie, in commenting on the mar­riages of Creadon, Griffin, Shelansky and Dick Phelan, remarked that wed­ding bells have not rung for him as he has too much worry on his hands to go out in search of another one. He would like to hear from Kopecky, Mulligan, Ed Cunningham, Jac k Chevigny, Fred Wagner, Bill Leahy, John Butler, the Tofains and the Cleveland Reidys. Connie expects to go to the clinic in Rochester, Minne­sota in the near future for an opera­tion. His address is Hacienda La Purisima, Tuxpan, Jal, Mexico. 
Dick Trant writes from Cambridge, Nebraska that he is now a married man. Dick inquired about Jim Mor­riuey, Jim Conmey and Don Rau. Dick is in the hardwai-e business in Cambridge, but claims they have not had a crop in those parts in four years. 
Harry Schubmehl dropped a note from Wayland, New York informing us that Clark Wallace is now a fa­ther. How about giving us a little mere news, Harry, about both Clark and yourself? 
* 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara. 231 Wisconsin Street, Indianapolis. Ind. 
Gay Haas sends word that his new address is 2513 North Main Street, Dayton, Ohio. He's working for the federal government at the airport there. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St, New Kensinston, Pa. 
Another Notre Dame man to win a handsome victory in the November 
election was Harold Steinbacher, 
Battle Creek, Michigan, who was elected prosecuting attorney of Cal­houn County. 
Professor Joe Apodaca, together with Professor Louie Buckley, took their economics into the female camp in early November when they ad­dressed a week-end conference of Northern Indiana business girls of the Y.W.C.A. in South Bend. 
I was at School for the Ohio State game, but the rain and fact that we were on a special train from Colum­bus prevented our getting around very much. Jim Dodson, Dan and 
Jack Cannon, Bill Lord and Tom 
Dunn were with me. I remember bumping into Tom Kassis on the cam­pus. He says things are fine in Wyo­ming. 
After that enjoyable week-end I was called back to Columbus the fol­lowing week to attend Mr. Cannon's funeral. He was a grand old man, and a lot of Dan and Jack's friends got to know him well on the football trips as well as visits to their home. Joe Ryan and Judge McBride were 
•at the funeral. I see by the Bulletin that Bob Eggeman also lost his father during the past month. I am sure all of our classmates will remember these two fine fathers in their prayers. 
There was quite a gathering of fellows in New York for the Army game. On Friday night Frank Leahy, John La ^ Tim Moynihan, Dick Don­oghue, John Colrick, Joe Abbott, Bucky O'Connor of the '29 football team were talking over old times. Con Carey, Warren Fogel, the busy promoter of entertainment for the week-end, Joe Sullivan, Tom Cun­ningham, Frank O'Marah, Tom Lan­try, the insurance wizard, Sam Rich­ards of Washington and others were around the McAlpin. 
After the game I remember seeing Larry Cronin, Jack Cassidy, Tom Kenneally, of Rutgers, Leo McAIoon, Pat Goggin, all the way from Ililnois, Frank Dunn, John Fredericks, Jack Burns, Joe Jackym, and many others. 
I was greatly surprised to see John McCarthy, the basketballer fro m Waukegan, at the victory dance. Jack is working for the Royal Insur­ance Group—Tim Toomey's company —and is living at the Greystone Hotel on Broadway at West 91st Street. 
Speaking of Illinois reminds me that I heard that Johnny Quinn, the Massillon kid, is located with the Hiram Walker Distillery in Peoria. Howie Smith and Jack Lavelle will match the latest in football strategy when Mt. St. Michael's and All Hal­lows play on Thanksgiving morning. Howie's team has won five out of seven this year. 
Tom Shay, '29, and Rita Curran of Manchester, Connecticut were mar­ried on July 11. 
Jim Rizer and Tom Sheen are still rooming together. Doctor Sheen has moved to new offices at 14 East 75th Street. 
Bemie Conroy. 
1931 Secretary: John Bersan, 828 E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
With the football season success­fully terminated your correspondent will have to devise new methods to get to see the boys. Many members of the class were back for the Ohio and Northwestern games. At the Ohio State game, Charlie Cushwa, who is with the Commercial Shearing Company, of Youngstown was down, as was John "Sarge" Raleigh, Tom Cannon, Bill Lahey, Joe Dwyer, Bob Du«fy, AI Stepan, Tom Feely, Phil Konop, Johnny Dorschel, Bill Desen­burg, Bill Redmond and a host of others. 
Happened to be one of the last minute men to board the Army game special, and had a fine trip to New York. Made the trip with Forrest West, who is doing most of the new designs for store fronts in South Bend, and Bob McKenna, the Lilly pharmaceutical man. At the McAlpin I saw Johnnie Bums, Ed Cunning­ham and Charlie Powers, the latter making the trip up from ole' Atlanta. Gordie Salmon over from Jersey, Art McManmon and Ray Conner* from Boston, and Jim Murphy. Jim was in charge of the very successful Notre Dame dinner - dance following the game, and is associated with John Balfe in the insurance business. 
Vince McHugh and John Lisicki, who was recently married, were also there celebrating the victory. Had dinner with Frank Ready, '30, who was down from Monroe, Michigan. Frank was re-elected prosecutor of Monroe County in the tirade of No­vember 5. TTie Penn Grill was a popular spot for the classes of '32 and '33, about 50 of them being there. 
Had a card from John J. Brown, who is with the Suburban Resettle­ment in Washington, and Bob Bas­kerrille, who is a foreman in the American Can Company, at Joliet. He expects a change to Maywood in the near future. Morris Leahy is with Dun and Bradstreet in Port Huron, and is getting along fine. Bob Alge is a practicing architect in Fin­dlay, Ohio, and has been very busy these pas few months. The Indian­apolis Star reports that Johnny Blackwell was married the latter part of October, and resides in Indianap­olis. Bill Leppert is also in our cap­ital city, and is manager of the in­surance department of W. A. Bren­nan agency. Pat Douthit is with the Indianapolis Times. Pat is happily married. 
Dan Clark is now manager of the well known Clark's restaurants in South Bend, and would be happy to see any of his old gang on their re­turn to South Bend. Word reaches us that on November 14 Miss Mary Lahey, St. Mary's, '31, and Walter Cahill were married in Chicago. A large number of the Chicago contin­gent were there to throw rice. 
Saw a few of the boys at the Northwestern game, Nick Bohling, Tom Monahan, the bird that never did report on the central Illinois con­tingent, Vem Knox, Bill Lahey, Bob Whitman, Ben Cakes, Bob Baer, AI Stepan and many others. 
Larry MuUins completed a very successful football season this year when his St. Benedict's College team was one of the nine undefeated foot­ball teams in the country. His teams have won their last 19 starts. Joe Gavin also had a great year at Cleve­land when his Cathedral High team won city honors. Bill McNulty has joined the Milwaukee group, and is working hard. 
Would like to hear from Pierre Anglemeyer, Joe Maxwell, John Knhn, Red Wells, AI Stoeppler, Joe Wilk, Carroll Murphy, Jim Bordeaux, Walt Phillip and William H. O'Brien as news is scarce concerning them. This column is still open for more news, and would appreciate a line from anyone that has something about members of the class. 
John Bergan. 

1932 FIVE-YEAR RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

Tom Magee, 5801 Chew Street, Philadelphia, is, like so many other '32ers, all steamed up about the five-year re-union next June. He has many fine suggestions for the making this one the biggest re-union in Notre Dame history — and, with such and early and enthusiastic start on the build-up and a large class to work on, it should be. 
Tom puts forth the very practical idea that all youse guys of '32 who live in distant spots start now to put a bit in the bank each week or month to cover expenses for the trip. He also suggests that those from the more far-away places begin now to make up automobile parties to cut down the w.k. transportation expense. This could be arranged, in part, through the ALUJINUS by listing early —^why not now?—the names of those 
•who are certain (or fairly certain) they will be present. 
Herb Giorgio, as he indicated in the November issue, is already very much on the ball. The Alumni Office and your pal, Joe Petritz, the pun­gent publicitor, •will be happy to co­operate (if Petritz is back from Southern Cal by June). Sign up now with the Class Secretary. 
* 

1933 Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant St, Joliet, 111. 
Edward Mark O'Connor was mar­ried to Miss Geraldine Murphy in Buffalo in the month of August. Ed, who did graduate work in Boy Guid­ance in '34, is with Catholic Charities in Buffalo, New York. 
Joe Hofmann is teaching Spanish at La Salle Military Academy out on Long Island, New York. 
The Alumni Office has just learned of the marriage of Tom Coughlan, of Whiting, Indiana, and Miss Mil­dred La Malle, of New York City, which took place in St. Clotilde's Church last December. John Cough­lan, ex. '33, was the best man, and Bill Gorman, '32, also of Whiting, was one of the ushers. Tom is with the Speer Investment Company in Chicago. 
* 

^93 4 Secretary; James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale Ave., Chicago, III. 
In the hope of stirring up some '34 dirt the five-star local newshawk sez: 
Carl E. Zimmerer, after laboring for a year as city editor of the South Bend Tribune's Mishawaka outpost, has been welcomed back from exile. 
and is now city hall and police re­porter for the same newspaper. For a time he was editing a night AP wire. If any member of the class of '34, and especially those disciples of Doctor Cooney, who seem to have been swallowed up by the oblivion of some remote and dingy copy desk, is unfortunate enough to run afoul of South Bend's perplexing traffic regulations, before turning in the ticket let him drop in at room No. 6 of the city hall. 
Ed Philbin is manager of a Tydol gas station in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Ed has five assistants. 
Norman Weitig is teaching physical education at a school in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Dave Feferman was recently pro­moted to the post of educational ad­viser of Camp City Creek P-157 of the CCC, Highland, California. He was looking forward ardently to the Southern Cal game on December 5. 
193S Secretary: F. C. Hochreiter. 1014 N. Eddy St, South Bend. Indiana. 
Luke Kelly, who is helping to run 

the Vincentian Service Bureau in 
South Bend, relays the information 
that Ed Kirby, '36, is working as stat­
istician at the Research Center, Uni­
versitj' of Newark, and taking law 
in the night school at the same uni­
versity. Just to keep himself busy 
Ed also is working on his master's 
degree in Saturday classes at Colum­
bia University. 
Luke also says that Phil Heinle, 

of Newark, New Jersey, was here for 
the Ohio State game. Luke's address 
is 111 North Lafayette Boulevard, 
South Bend. 
We give you the seer of South Bend and the doer of Notre Dame, —Mr. Hochreiter: 
We want to dedicate the chatter this trip to the boys on the campus You know we have quite a few of the '35ers with us out here. 
We'll start with the lawyers of the '35 vintage. There are three of them who take a junior ranking this year having gone through their undergrad­uate days without a combination course. Tom Proctor, Hal Sparling and John Reilly, fill this column. 
Of the "budding barristers" who will blossom forth their sheepskins this June, we have: Bob Albert, Glenn Blake, Jack Darcy, Fran Dunn, Pat Fisher (Law Club Prexie), Art Gregory, Paul Guarnieri, Bob Haley, Jim Levi, Bob Malarney, Art Mul­hoUand, Tony Scolaro, Bill Struck, Maurice Tulchinsky, Pete Viviano, and John Watters. 
Coming now to the Graduate School we find there are ten listed. All are graduates assistants except 
your scribe. (We are, however, kept busy—^never fear.) Ed Bried, Harold Goebel, Art Kraazfelder and Jobn Verbanc are telling the boys what the little bottles contain in the chem­istry lab. George "Bud" FOM holds down the engineering building and the metallurgy department. The bi­ology lab progresses to greater ex­periments with Joe Cordaro. (Joe, at the time of this writing, is in the in­firmary with a' breakdown.) Frank Maxwell continues to put the phy. ed. students through their paces. AI Vit­ter and Dick Schager are still argu­ing over Archimedes principle in the physics lab. We are in the depart­ment of sociology taking the graduate course in Social Case Work. In the beginning we planned to take this while making a deiinite decision about continuing the law. The work has proved of such interest that we have decided to remain "in the service" and eventually help the country put over the Social Security Act. 
Before passing on to the corre­spondence of the month we want to extend felicitations to John D. Car­bine. Jack has been awarded a Fac­ulty Scholarship at Harvard Law School. The Faculty award is given annually to those who, in the preced­ing year, have maintained the highest averages in their courses and have shown a special aptitude for the law in general. (Maybe youll be able to bring Vermont out of the political woods some day. Jack.) 
We turn first to a letter from Bill Kennedy. Bill is still with the Brook­lyn Daihj Eagle, and has his own card which states that he is the cor­respondent at the Mineola Court­house in Nassau County. He is act­ing editor of the Nassau of the Eagle while the "head man" is ill. The boy must be "gunning" for Boake Car­ter's job—^he gives a nightly 15 min­ute news comment broadcast over Freeporfs ''littie five watter," WGBB. 
Bill sent us some good dope for the monthly tome. About half of it would help out brother Murphy of '36, so we turned it over to that end. However, we did learn that Maurice Tombragel, has landed a reader's job with Universal Pictures in Holly­wood. 
John Glanzner is reported to be torn between teaching and studying in Trenton, Illinois. 
•We hear that the five and ten cent business has captured the talents of Bob Shanahan. Bob is reputed to be worldng in the Mt. Clemens office of one of America's greatest retailers. 
Comes a letter from barrister Louis 

F. FauUch. Our red, rugged-faced boy of the second floor of Sorin has opened an office in Dubuque, Iowa, with the proverbial "attorney and counsellor at law" on the door, Louis 
(Continued on Page 94) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus December, 1936 
We learn that Ed Mansfield is writ­us posted on your efforts and those 
CENTRAUTY 
In the heart of Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Park; 
o short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with bath and shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dame Room. 

•
 Notre Dome alumni, student body and faculty can be definitely certain that they will receive the ultimate in facilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingly moderate. 

•
 Mak e the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago. 


Atlan G. Hurstf Manager 
ing on the Catholic Record in Den­ver, Colorado, and is going to Denver University at night. 
Hunning into Gunner McGrath after the Ohio State game we learned that "our deputy marshal of '35" is county chairman of the Democratic party in HEssouri. 
We checked with Jack McDonnell at that game also and discovered that he is working with International Mill­ing back Iowa-way. 
Over at lunch in the caf during those exciting days we caught sight of Tony Crowley. Tony, after his graduation in '35, did a bit of law work with Republic Supply Company, subsidiary of Republic Steel in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Discovering that the sales department oifered more opportunity, Tony joined that division and con­tinues in it. 
We are advised by John Neeton that John Higgins has left Dickinson Law this year to continue his legal pursuits at Temple in Philadelphia. We wonder is John Neeson is there too, or if he is still at Harvard? 
Before closing our rambles we want to list those of the class who made the big games since our last chatter went to press. At the Ohio State game we saw or heard of: Ray Oakes, Fred Locke Morris, Dick Ball-man, Bill Ashenton, Jim O'Meara, John Allen, Bill Lord, Bob Shanahan, Bill Bembrock, Frank Magnire, Joe Argus, Mike Sheedy, Don Haverick, Frank Shay, Bill Guimont, Maurrie Lefere, Frank Leonard, Charlie Schill, Tom LaLonde, Louis Fautsch, Bob Kenline, Bill Otte, Ralph O'Malley, Jim Glenn, Don Felts, Phil Heinle, Art Korzeneski, John Clark, Bemie O'Brien, Ray Gerend, Norb Hart, Bill Burkhart, Line Wurzer, Jack Shod­ron. Bill Measer, Dick Prezebel, and Bud Raddatz. 
Over the Northwestern week-end we had visits from the Chicago fair-heads— Clark and Korzeneski, and also from George Barber. We ex­press apologies for not being at home when they called, but, we too were entertaining guests from foreign parts. George left a note saying that he is still attending the University of Oklahoma and anticipates receiving his degree in June. Among the others seen about the campus and town were: Tony Andreoni, Frank Leon­ard, Joe Flynn, Jack McDonnell, Ed Buchart, Ed Caldwell, the Corrigan brothers, "Bunk" Kennedy, and Bob Kenline. 
This brings us to the end of the December "chapter." To you who were suffiicently interested to take time out to write—our sincerest ap­predation for your time and infor­mation. Our hope is that more of you will follow in line and will keep 
of your buddies. Here's to a Merry Christmas. 
IdSfi Secretary; Thomas J. Murphy, 15 Uilt 
**""* St. Newport, K. I. 
Dan Youngerman recently left a combination teaching-graduate work job at Notre Dame to take an attrac­tive position as head of the Speech Department at St. Ambrose College, Davenport, Iowa. Dan was an active member of the St. Joe Valley Club, and vrill be welcomed by the Tri-City group in the Layden homeland. 
John Kelly, ex. '36, is in the un­dertaking business in Rockville Cen­ter, New York. 
Sam Gibbons, ex. '36, is living in Greenwich Village in New York, and is attending Grand Central Art School. 
Scoop Moran, the reformed editor, from his fortress at 61 East 95th Street, New York City, comes forth to battle the Hochreiter prestige: 

I bumped into so many classmates, students, alumni, faculty member, etc., in the course of the Army week­end, that I can't remember half the information that was passed on to me. Downtown New York resembled South Bend after a football game, with Notre Dame crowding every ho­tel, street comer, theater, and side­walk. 
As to the class of '36: Bill Gilles­pie and Johnny Hopkins are both working in the New York Curb Ex­change. Bill Flannery and Dan Han­rahan are with Ed Purcell & Com­pany, brokers, while other Wall Streeters include Jack Robinson and Tom Downing, who are runners for two of the investment houses. 
Journalism has claimed Homer Strickler, who is on the editorial staff of the New York Sitn, and Joe Schmidt who is with the advertising department of the same paper. Ray Deely is reported as working for the New York Daily News, while Lindsay Phoebus was for a time city reporter with the Cumberland, (Md.) Daily News. 
Half of the '36 seems to be going to law school to judge by the number who are continuing their studies on other campi. Bill Walsh is at Ford­ham, Howrie Cusack was reported as delving into Blackstone somewhere in the city, John Coyne is at Harvard, and a score of others are elsewhere. Charley Clark informed me that he is working during the day, and going to Fordham at night. 
Frank Murray is at Cornell Medi­cal School here in the city, John 
December, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
QtittiMiniiiiiiiiiitiiiMiituniitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiii iiiitiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiniitiiiiiiiniiniiiiiiiii niiiniUMiii: 
9 i GREATER NOTRE DAME, building for the future as well as the present, demands § I the best in materials and workmanship. Limited resources command that econ-i I omy accompany that quality. ALUMNI can do no better than profit by the Uni-| I versity's experienced judgment. I 
|«|illlllillllllllllll tiiliiiiiiiiiitllllllltiitll •III tiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiti)iiiiitiiiiiiiiii||||||| iiiiiiiiii 
>B 

Qnnitiiiintiiitiittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniii illltllUtllttlllllllllllllillllllllllllllllltllliiiiiiiiilllllllliiil 
SOLLITT CONSTRUCTION CO.. Inc. 
General Contractors 

I 518-22 E Sample St. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Td. 3-3113 
BllUlltllltlltlllllllllltllltlil IIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIKIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII llllltlllllllltlilllillllllllltlllltllltllltllUIIUtlltlllMII 
ISIiiiiiiitinmiiinniiiiiiiniMiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiniiiiii iii)ifiitliii(ttii(tii(tftiiititi»Miiiitf(tf?| filniiMiiHiiniii MiiiiiiiiitiiiiiitiiiMitiiiiiiiiuiitttiiMiiuiiitiiiiiiHiniiiuHttwnnnnii 
0 Q" 
SUCCESS 
to greater building 

GOEDERT HARDWARE 
program of Notre Dame 
COMPANY 
OIney J. Dean Steel Co. 
BUILDER'S HARDWARE 
for 

REINFORCING STEEL Cavanaugh Hall and Infirmary Building 
Chicago  James R. Martin, '23  1105 Holley Court  Oak Park,  
B.,..  Q  a...  n  HmnniimniinimiiiilmnilHMlimiMllHlltilliimmiHIIMUllimuiimH  
Qtiiiiiiiiiiiii  lllltltllllMttH('lttMtlll>l*tlllM| (3  H"  IlllllllllUlllUlllt  ••H  
SERVICE TO  INDUSTRY  AND  TO  THE  HOME  I  E. R. NEWLAND CO.  

GENERAL ASBESTOS & 
Builders Supplies 
SUPPLY CO. 
INCORPORATED 

Builder's Supplies, Facing Brick, Home Insulations, Steel Windows, Garage Doors, etc. 
ROOFING. SHEET METAL AND INSULATIONS 
COAL and COKE 
128 S. Main St. Tel. 3-2092 1401 S. Main St. Td. 3-2173 South Bend, Indiana South Bend, Indiana 
B illMllUillllllllli IIKIKIillllllllllllllllllllllillltlllllllltlllllllllliU Q B-> 
CAaditional 1936 New* on Page 96) 
NEWS-WEEK 
KEEPS YOU 

THOROUGHLY INFORMED • ACCURATE • UNBIASED 
THE PERFECT BALANCE OF WORD & PICTURE 
NEWS-WEEK 

BOOK MANUSCRIPTS WANTED 
on all subjects. Write for free booklet. 
MEADOR PUBLISHING COMPANY 324 Newbury St. Dept. SI Boston, Massachusetts 
LAW DIREaORY 
Notre Dame men practicing law, not listed in the December, 1935, ALTJMNXIS, send in your names and addresses at once for new Directory. 
STUDENT RELIGIOUS SURVEY 
Alxmmi wishing to receive the Student Religious Survey just published may do so by writing Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
(Continued from Page 91) 

was east for the Ohio State game but we missed each other. (Well con­tinue to work on the Banas address, Louis. The last we heard Steve was working at the Bethlehem Steel Com­pany in Lackawanna, New York.) 
Missives came from all parts of the country the past month, both coasts having answered the call. From Washington; D. C. came a letter from the Wheeling, West Vir^nia boy—Al Lorjtsch. Al told US that he has been in Washington "nine months and has seen only the top of the President's head." What his capitol business is, Al did not say. (How about a tip on that, Al?) He did vol­unteer information, however. 
Late in October Al spent the week­end in New York City and saw Jim McDevItt. Jim is still working; more than that we do not know. 
• Al made the Navy game with Roy Scholz and Vic Arcadi. They discov­ered that their seats were adjacent to those of Matt Brown and friend. Matt is in Washington where he holds down a government job and attends -Georgetown's night school in Foreign Service. We finally have something on Bob Henneberger. We hear that he is attending Georgetown Law 
School. 

It comes to our ears that Vail Cliff has joined the Naval Reserve. The full story on this we do not have at the moment but we are investigating it. Perhaps Vail will drop up a line on it himself. 
All the way from Frisco comes an epistle from Phil Purcell. Phil is a member of the Olympic . Club out there. He has been working with a general agency insurance firm named Rathbone, King and Seeley for nearly a year and a half. But that is not all. Phil is in the second year session of the Night Law School at the University of San Famcisco (a Jesuit institution). The following swell news comes from the "western correspondent. 
Fred Shanley is still out in Flisco. He worked for some time vrith the Bank of America, and is now situated with an accounting firm. 
John "Moose" Ryan arrived in Oak­land a little over a year ago, and is working ^rith the Hydraulic Dredging Company in that city. John is mar­ried to the former Bemadette Mc-Donough of Chicago. 
Not long back Bill Sheehan left the East to seek his fortunes in the sunny climes of the coast. As yet, not much luck. 
Jim Marr, ex '35, has left the Texas ranges, and is now in Los An­geles working in the Trust Depart­ment of some bank out there. 
We learn that Gerry Doyle is in Fort. Wayne. He is employed by the 
Journal Gcizette. 

We have another medico in the outfit. Bill Bernard is putting his time in at microscoping at medical school in St. Louis. 
Next we have .a letter from Dick Hyde out Iowa way. Dick is selling advertising and trailers for the Par­rot Film Company in Des Moines, and, as a side line is a co-operator of a retail coal concern. He, too, has passed on some prolific material for our edification. 
Dick says that he hears that Joe Underkofler has been coaching in the northern part of the state (we believe it is Iowa) but he is not sure where. (We have no info on that, Dick. Per­haps Joe will give us an answer to this notice.) 
Bill Caen, passing through the Iowa city, dropped in on Dick for a visit. 
Last summer we saw Ed Simpson in Chi, and, at that time Ed was get­ting ready to associate himself with the Illinois Bell Telephone Company. No verification on this either. 
Bemie O'Brien is still with the Parks Commission in the Windy Citj% 
In the middle of November we found a letter in our box from Frank Vukorich. (We sincerely appreciate your identifying information, Frank.) Frank is the secretary of the Gogebic Range Notre Dame Club of Ironwood, Michigan. At the moment, and since graduation, Frank has been working with the Gogebic Auto Company, Inc. of Ironwood. As we make it out from the letterhead, Frank and his brothers are the managers of said concern. 
(The addresses you desire are as follows, Frank: Robert C. Byrnes, 2172 Maplewood Road, Cedar Rap­ids, Iowa; John P. Sagarlz, 6355 Raven Street, Chicago, Illinois.) 
Frank has volunteered the dope on several of the gang. Don Bonk, ex '35, is still studying the law at the University of Wisconsin. With Don is Jim Sullivan, ex. '35, of Chicago. Do we need to freshen your memo­ries? They were two of our number who aided in making St. Casimir and St. Hedwige famous. 
Paul Nockels, ex. '35, was gradu­ated from Creighton University last Summer with a law degree. Paul was formerly from Carroll, Iowa, but, after the death of his father he moved to California, where is is pre­paring for the bar of that state. Ad­dress—128 South Camden Drive, Beverly Hills. 
Our barrister friend of '34-'35 days. Bill "Bunk" Kennedy, was elected to the office of County At­torney in native Iowa during the stormy days of early November. 
(Turn to Page 92) 

December, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 95 
CTiMiitittt|iiiiii>iititiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiinmiiiiimiiniiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiit>iiiiiinniiimiitiiiiiiitniiiiiiiiii 
lllllllllltlllttMIIMIt'l* 

When you build, rebuild, or repair, these are the builders of the 
D 

Greater Notre Dame. Call on them. 
pJiiiiiiniinmimminiiDtmitimiiiiniiniiiiii IIIIIIIIIIKII'KllllltlllKlllllllllllilll lllliltlllllllDlllllllllllluil 
pliiiHiMiitiiiMiummmimtiimiimnmiMiiu iiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiii • «)itiiii)<itiiiitiiiiiiittiiniiiMii)niiitii<iitiiuiii<i*iiiitHtttiiaMtiini{ 
1 
121 N.HillSt. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMII 

i... 
B-n iiiiaiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
EACH YEAR—A Larger and More Modern 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASHED SAND AND GRAVEL 
Used in the construction of new buildings on the Campus furnished by the 
SOUTH BEND SAND AND GRAVEL CORPORATION 
I 3113 Lincoln Way West 
RlilllllltlllKIIIXIIII'X*"** IIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllll II iiillliillllliliiiiai 
KJlllllillllltlllllllMII lltlllllllllllllllllllllll Illlllllllllil 
I Telephone 3-6197 
HARRY D. ULLERY 
Coal and Coke 

Builder's and Mason's Supplies 
Automatic Coal Stokers 

THOMAS L HICKBY. Inc. 
Builder 

SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Tel. 4-9241 
lllllltlllllllltlilllllllilllllll iiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiitininimiMnimitmMiniiiiimiiitiiitiiiitintmimiMitttufal 
iiM [7| QMMiiiMiiiniMiiiiititiuiiniiiniittiiiiiiitianiitiiiiMiiiiiittiiiiititiiiiuiMuniiitiittiiiiiiiMitinttifn 
THE I. W. LOWER CO. 
I I Established 1884 I 
I I Decorators I I I Painting Contractors i 
i f  V  I  
i  i  i  
I  I  120 North Michisan St.  South Bend, Indiana  |  

"" B El Illlltin IIIHIitUIMIIUtltllllllll UIMMIIMIIIIIIHIIIMMI Ililtll ^ 
iiiiQ Qiii>,M„iii,Mi,ii,ii...i.... •••••iiininniuinniuiiinnnninimanmnmniiiiiimnifinnioljl 
SOUTH BEND LUMBER CO. 
i i 1535 South Main Street i 
Lumber Millwork Building Supplies 
319 South St. Peter St. South Bend, Indiana PHONE 3-5156 
BuiMiiiiitiiiiiUMiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiliniiitiitiiitiiiiiiiiiuiiitiiitiitiiiitiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiDitQ IsliiiitiiMiaiiiiiiiiniHti 
•a 
B" 
OLIVER HOTEL 
ndiaiuCi Mmih" 
I J 
I  Noted for  
I  Hospitality  
I  Refinement  
i  Quality Foods  
I  Excellent  Cuisine  

I Attractive Banquet, Ball and 1 Reception Rooms : All service reasonably priced 
I A. B. ABBOTT, Manager I South Bend, Indiana 

I 
QlllllllllKI II llllllllliiIIIMIIillllllli Illllll •iQ 
"Insurance Careers for College Graduates'' 
THI S booklet, published by TJie Penn Mutual Life Insur­ance Company, explains the advantages life underwriting offers to the college graduate at the present time. It covers these topics: 
FINANCIAL OPPORTUNITIES 
THE COJIPANY'S FIXED COSIPENSATION PLAN QUAUFICATIONS 
Yoa may obtain the booklet with no obligation from: 
NATIONAL COLLEGIATE PERSONNEL BUREAU 
THE PENN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Independence Square, Philadelphia 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"Doc" Murphy is at Yale Med, Sal Costa is in the Harvard Business School, while Bill Walsh reports that Red McNally, who is over at Oxford, complains that the English never heard of central heating. 
Accountants in the city include Jim Kirby from Portland, Oregon, who is now living at the West Side y.M.C.A., Al Carey, and some others whose names escape me at the mo­ment. Tom Grady is at Northwestern for advanced accounting. 
Working for the big department stores are Fred Deichman, who is in the advertising department of Gim­hel's, Joe Waldron, who is with B. Altman, I believe, and Dick Baker, who is in the merchandising division of another department store. 
Dan Sullivan and Bob Stapp are working for the Fumess-Bermuda steamship line, and both report hav­ing seen a bit of the sea since re­ceiving their degrees lasts June. 
Badio has claimed Joe Mansfield, who is working in Providence, Rhode Island, according to Doc Murphy and Sherb Herrick, who is an announcer and advertising man with Station WOKO, a member of the Columbia Broadcasting System at Albany. 
Someone reported seeing Joe Mc­Grath at the Navy game in Baltimore. Joe is continuing in his old ways on the dirt track, and may possibly run in New York this winter. George Milton is TOth his dad's concern, the 
G. Milton Can Company. George re­poi-ts that Paul Cummin^s is living out near him in Brooklyn, I believe. Joe Ratigan is taking advanced Eng­lish at either Penn or Penn State, in addition to dabbling a bit in insur­ance. 
Carmi Belmont is teaching at the Fall River (Mass.) High School, while Hank McDonald is working in the Western Union office at Broadway and 75th Street. 
December, 1936 
Jess Hawley joins me in the gov­ernment service. Jess is working for the Commerce Commission down in Washington, and going to law school at the same time. Bill Buckley is working for a finance company up­state in Connecticut. 
Seen around here during the week­end were John Ryan, Paul Krause, Ed Sullivan, Joe Barber, Bill Belden, Phil Clarke, Ed Donahue, Ed Ham­mer, and a score of others who pa­raded through the McAlpin lobby, the New Yorker, the Astor, and the Pennsylvania. Prom Chicago came Jim O'Keefe, Van Baur, Tom Grady, and several others. 
Someone reported that John Flynn is working in the American Legation over in deah old London, but I couldn't verify it. 
Andy Hufnagle and Cliff Brown, who is out taking law at Notre Dame, shared my bed over week-end, while I bunked on the sofa in the living room. Bud Goldman and Lindsay Phoebus were scheduled to be on hand for the week-end, but unfortunately couldn't make it. 
-4s for myself, I am now busy on Social Security investigations for the Internal Revenue Department, and have gotten so that I can now spot a delinquent tax payer at seven paces. 
More dope from Uncle Sam Moran! He had seen Ed Donahue, Jim Sherry and Bill Quirk at recent Fordham games in New York. (Bet he gets free tickets!) Ed is at medical school, Jim is with the Chevrolet company in Tarrytoivn, New York, and Bill is a stock selector with a New Jersey firm. 
According to Moran—^you can be­lieve him if you want to, — Frank Murray's address is the West Side y.M.C.A., 5 West 63rd Street, New York City, when Frank isn't attend­ing Cornell Medical School. Joe Re­petti, '28, is working OTth Moran in the internal revenue business in New York. Joe was recently married. 
/In Opportunitij in a Fast-Growing Industri)/ 
To those seating a field of endeavor that is not overcrowded^ and in which the rewards for the exeriusc of brains and energy are con­^derably altove the averaf^e, there is now offered an exceptional opportunity—a dealership in Palace Travel Coaches. The possi­bilities are great! The capital required is small! And, most importanCof all, it is a business thaty while comparativcJy new, is univcr^Uy acknowledfled as one that is destined to rival that of the automobile in the not far distant future! 
Write for particulars as to how you can open a Palace Coach Salesroom! 
Palace Travel Coach Corporation Dept. 40. Flint, Michigan 
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS 







