The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


ike Notre Dame Alumnus 
VoL 28, No. 5 September-October. 1950 
lames E. Armstrong. '25, Editor lohn P. Bums. '34. Managing Editor John N. Cockley. Jr.. '37. Associate Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Table of Contents 
THE 1950-51 FOUNDATION DRIVE  3  
JOHNNY MANGAN PASSES  4  
EDDIE MAHAN HONORED  5  
THE RACONTEUR  6  
PLACEMENT  7  
A $7,893,300 QUESTION  8  
ATHLETICS  9  
CLUBS  :  10  
CLASSES  18  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS FRANXIS WALLACE, '23 Honorary President LEO B. WARD, '20 President REV. VINXENT P. BRENNAX, '32 first Vice-President JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27 Second Vice-President .•\RTHUR D . CRONIN, JR., '37 Third Vice-President 
DIRECTORS TO 1951 .ARTHUR D . CRONIN, JR., '37 2632 Buhl Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich. LEO B . WARD, '20 JI4 Rowan Bldg., Los Angeles 13, Calif. JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27 Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Jnd. REV. VI.NXEXT P. BREXNAN, '32....408 Baldwin Rd., Pittsburgh, 7, Pa. • 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 WILLIAM J . SHERRY, '21 804 Kennedy Bldg.. Tulsa, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 7102 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. 
R. CoNROY ScoGGiNS, '24. 480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDW.ARD J. BECKMAN, '16 40 South Dr., Plandome, N. Y. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 JOHN Q . ADAMS, '26 758 Lorraine, Upper Montclair, N. J. HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 6235 Kenmore, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Director and Secretary 



CERTAINTY 
(An Editorial) 
Uncertainty is too often called the keynote of our time. 
War? Depression? Draft? Inflation? 
It would be ridiculous to say that a college campus has answers that are seemingly inaccessible to the brains of the world. 
But we believe that at Notre Dame we have the answers — not inaccessible to the world, but inadmissible by the world, a world that has followed the tragic cycle from God, through His Church, to pro­test, to neutrality, to militant opposition. 
Because we know the answers, and arc convinced that the only solution to our problems lies in these answers, we move ahead with a paradoxical calm in chaos. 
Notre Dame's work has been summarized in the concept of train­ing young men as moral responsible leaders. 
How can wc conquer war without morality, without responsibility :n our world leaders? 
How can wc avoid our damaging economic cycles without a re­sponsible leadership that recognizes the obligations of man's stew­ardship of God's resources? 
.\ni in a world that is snuffing out the lives of too many of tomor­row's leaders, the urgency of Notre Dame, and its work of creating this moral responsible direction of the destinies of our coming decades, multiplies. 
Disaster is not solved by acceleration. But vision in disaster is essential to the salvage of those things from which the good destroyed can be restored, and from which the prevention of similar disasters may be derived. 
That is how we feel about Notre Dame. 
Wc arc not immune from the effects of war, of the draft, of in­flation, of the changing plans of a world which deified change. 
But wc feel that every alumnus and every friend of Notre Dame 
— no matter how deeply drawn into the chaos of our time — con­tributes to the salvage of the era and to the only course by which a care can come, when he continues to give, unselfishly as in the past, to the development of the University. 
Notre Dame itself may not hold the destiny of the world in its hands. But the destiny of the world is inevitably linked with the ])rinciples from which Notre Dame derived, for which it stands. 
In the emergency of our present lives, we cannot suspend our cflTorts. We must multiply them. 

e Alumnus 
Urgency Keynote of 1950-51 Foundotioii Drive; Lwe Television of Home Gomes Tels ND Story 
Putting Notre Dame's home games 

and the Navy game at Cleveland on live 
television this year gives the University 
an opportunity nevsr before presented 
an institution, to tell its story to the 
public. 
The number of viewers is estimated 

in the millions. The opportunity for en­
couraging additional good will towards 
the University is being taken by the 
Notre Dame Foundation in the form of 
a stepped-up campaigfn to tell the 
school's friends of its continuing and 
urgent needs. 
The Foundation's program for 1950-51 

lists these most urgent needs: Equip­
ment for several of the new buildings, 
$650,000; expansion of the steam plant, 
extending utilities to new buildings, ad­
dition of power generators, $1,400,000; 
sewage disposal system, §400,000; con­
struction of a maintenance building, 
$600,000. 
These needs, adding up to a sum slightly in excess of $3,000,000, are vital —and urgent. The present stsam plant after twenty years of operation, is in need of substantial repair and improve­ment. 
Increasing capacity of the steam plant is an absolute MUST. It is presently capable of handling only two more buildings, and progress in planning four new buildings must depend on this util­ity increase. The four buildings, de­scribed in earlier issues of the Alumnus are the new Science Building, the Fred 
J. and Sally Fisher Kesidsnce Hall, the Notre Dame Inn and the Liberal and Fine Arts Building. 
The new student residence hall is the gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, whose hus­band had been a member of the Univer­sity Board of Trustees. The Inn is a gift of Mr. E. M. Morris, '06, of South Bend. The Liberal and Fine Arts Build­ing was given by Mr. I. A. O'Shaugh­nessy, LL.D., '48, of St. Paul. The Science Building is the gift of thousands of alumni and friends of the University, and of the citizens of the South Bend 
September-October, 1950 
area who made a special campaign to 
insure its construction. 
The necessary expansion of utilities to service these four building^s must be begrun by next summer at the very latest. It is no secret that these needs —call them "Operations Digging" if you choose—are not geared to capture the imagination of the public as is a radia­tion chemistry project or a library build­ing. Yet it remains obvious that these new buildings cannot be constructed without extension of existing facilities and without adequate provision for their maintenance. 
Hereby is presented a genuine chal­

lenge to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
The newest phase of Foundation ac­tivities is planned to raise $1,000,000 annually through small contributions from Notre Dame's thousands of friends. The problem of reaching these thousands —or perhaps millions—of friends is a tremendous one. 
Fortunately, Mr. Bernard Duffy, pres­ident of Batton, Barton, Durstine & Os­bom, the top advertising agency in the nation, has been pleased to volunteer his services in this connection. His in­terest has been so intense and whole­hearted, his time and talent so gener­ously granted that the central oflSce of the Foundation has taken to calling this phase of the Foundation's activity not the Mass Appeal Plan, but the Ben Duffy Plan. 
One of the obvious and most necessary requirements for success of the Ben Duffy Plan is the actual personal cir­culation by the alumni of the brochores prepared for the campaign. It was agreed that the simplest and most imme­diate method of actual distribution of brochures is the direct mailing to each alumnus from the central Foundation Office. 
The television shows preceding each game will tell the Notre Dame story. They are shows done by professionals, and a credit to all who participated in preparing them. Besides these shows. 
a pre-game interview with Father Cav­
anangh will continue to tell the Notre 
Dame story to the nation. 
Local Alumni clnbs and Foundation gronps can aid the program by staging: parties of alnmni and non-alnnmi friends on Saturday afternoons the games are put on television. They can amnge with other local gronps to hold such parties, with the Notre Dame story 
(possibly the brochures) to be coor­dinated. 
The special football trips present an­other means of contact in a select group already showing enthusiasm. And women's groups should not be over­looked. There are many women friends of Notre Dame and of the things for which Notre Dame stands who could be enlisted as contributors. 
The job, then, for the Foundation gov­ernors, city chairmen and local alumni clubs in the Ben Duffy Plan is the actual personal circulation of the brochures. A direct mailing to each alumnns from the Foundation OfSce is the simplest and most immediate method of actual dis­tribution. 
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of public relations and James E. Armstrong, Alomni Secre­tary and Foundation ExecntiTe '^ee-Chairman recently finished personal visits to Foundation meetings in St. Louis, MUwaukee, Minneapolis, Daven­port, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and Indianapolis. 
They report great enthusiasm for the mass appeal based on the Ben Dnfiy Plan and a feeling among Foundation and Aliimni leaders that the Notre Dame story should be told to the friends of Notre Dams who can spare a $10 gift These are the people who know Notre Dame as a private school, vdiieh has thrived on the gifts from people who can understand that an annual gift of $10 is the eqnivalent of a $300 en­dowment. 
This is a job for organization, for de­
(see Fonndatiaa, page 5) 


Ireland Only Contented Eurcpean Country Today 

The people of Ireland today are the 
best fed and happiest in all Europe. 
The people of Italy ard France, where 

Communism made such inroads during 
and after World War II are very risky 
insurance in case of a Communist war 
of aggression on the European conti­
nent. 
Those are the two major impression-: one has after a talk with Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., University President who returned last month fi-om Rome, where the Holy Cross Congregation held its general chapter. There are lighter impressions, too. 
Such as that of the surprisingly stu­dious and well read London cabbie who told Father Cavanaugh that Atlee's gov­ernment unfortunately contains no big-league diplomats to compare with those of foi-mer governments. The cabbie also doubted England's present Socialism will ever quicken its pace and become Com­munism because the latter's basic be­liefs, or lack of them are so abhorrent to Englishmen. 
The English austerity program makes Ireland seem even cheerier than it is, and the generous supply of food avail­able in Ireland sharpens the contrss'; more. 
Most serious observation Father Cav­anaugh noted was the contrast in pres­ent day Italy with the Italy he knew while studying at Rome in 1931. Under Mussolini the Italian people were then floating on the high tide of Fascism. Today, despite the aid of the Mai-shall Plan and a lessening of Communist strength the Italians are. a thoroughly beaten and discouraged people. They be­lieve there is no practical sense in resist­ing an armed move by Russia. 
It is extremely doubtful they would defend their once-bombed cities against Russia, particularly when they see the treatment accorded those showing any force against Communism in East Ger­m a n y, Poland, or Czechoslovakia. France, similarly would offer token re­sistance if any to a Red Invasion, Father Cavanaugh believes. 
Possibly it was with these grim even­tualities in mind that Father Cavanaugh asked, before the national VFW encamp­ment in Chicago shortly after his re­turn, that this nation arm itself to the teeth while getting back to the God who guided our nation's founders. 
The French nation. Father Cavanaugh says, is like an aging prizefighter, living in the past. The average Frenchman believes Stalin could take Paris by phone. 
Mangan Burial Sept. 12 
JOHNNY MANGAN 
One of the few failures in the long and successful history of the University is about to happen. 
They're trying to replace Johnny Man­gan. 
Johnny, a living legend with a rich brogue and sense of humor to match it, was known by all the great and fa­mous who visited the University in the last 40 years. He began in 1910 with a. horse and buggy and ended with a 1950 Studebaker. 
His funei-al service in Sacred Heart Church Sept. 12 brought as many cele­brities and sincere tribute as would an archbishop's. Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, c.s.c, retired pi'ovincial was celebrant. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, cs.c . Univer­sity president was deacon and Rev. Mi­chael Mulcaire, c.s.c, was subdeacon. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., gave the ser­mon. 
Burial was in the community ceme­tery. 
His coming to Notre Dame was acci­dental. He stopped in 1910 at Niles on the way to visit a friend in Decatur, 
111. He heard of a Catholic university at South Bend and walked down to have his own look. 
He didn't get to Decatur until years later, staying at the University to con­voy its eminent visitors. Pius XII, who \'isited the campus in 1936 as Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, Papal Secretary of State, was his passenger. So was Gil­bert Keith Chesterton, the English es­sayist and apologist. 
Chesterton practically adopted Johnny Mangan for the tei-m of 24 lectures Chesterton delivered at the University. 
To the end, one of Johnny's favorite 
anecdotes concerned the night that 
Chesterton got his 320 pounds wedged 
in a door of the University car in which 
Johnny delivered him to Washington 
Hall for a lecture. 
Three years ago he chauffeured Car­
dinal Mindzenty, the Hungarian martyr 
prelate when he visited the Universily. 
A complete listing of the great per­
scnages he knew would be a cross sec­
tion of Who's Who, and paper restric­
tions preclude such. 
May it suffice to say that the ALUM­
NUS hopes the many generations of stu­
dents who knew Johnny Mangan will re­
member him in their prayers. 



Heekin, Beardsley on Science Advice Council 
Two of the nation's leaders in science and industry have accepted positions on the University's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, Father John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., University presi­dent announced. 
They are Charles S. Beardsley, Chair­man of the Board, Miles Laboratories, and Daniel M. Heekin, president of the Heekin Can Co., Cincinnati. The 23-man council is headed by Bradley Dewey, president of Dewey and Almy Chemical Co., Cambridge, Mass. 
Record for Lay Retreat 
The annual Laymen's Retreat held last month at the University was the largest in the twenty-eight year history of the retreat, according to the Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C., Director of Re­treats at Notre Dame. 
Father Foran reported a total of 1,725 Catholic laymen from all parts of the United States attended the 1950 Lay­men's Retreat. This total exceeds by 125 the former record of 1,600, which was set last year. 


Joseph P. Grace Dies 

Mr. Joseph P. Grace, a shipping exec­utive and generous benefactor to the University, died July 15 at his home in Manhasset, L. I. He was the father of Michael P. Grace, who attended Notre Dame and who has set up the Michael P. Grace Trust, which amounts to ?8o,500 at present. Another son, Charles, en­tered the University this fall. 
Mr. Grace was buried from St. Mary's Church, Manhasset. Four bishops of the Catholic Church, including the Most. Rev. John F. O'Hara, Bishop of Buffalo, were pre.sent in the sanctuary for the requiem ma.ss, at which Francis Cardi­nal Spellman, Archbishop of New York, was celebrant. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

itsch, Jim McKenna, Ed Mertz, Dick 
Eddie Mahan Honored by Chem Norris, Andy O'Keefe, Bob Schuler, Bill 
During the September 1950 meeting of the American Chemical Society in Chicago, alumni of the College of Science hel<^ a testimonial dinner honoring Eddie Hahan, veteran chemistry stockroom manager, the genial Irishman who has been at the University since 1911, and who has endeared himself to nearly three generations of Notre Dame stu­dents with his quick vnt and inimitable brogue, by his patience and the good example of his Christian life, and by his generous nature, both in worldly goods and in good advice. 
The dinner, arrangements for which were in charge of Jim Danehy, was held at the Furniture Club of America on Lake Shore Drive. A very pleasant cocktail hour preceded the dinner. Un­fortunately, Eddie was unable to attend the dinner; he had been released from the hospital the day before the affair and his physician did not .deem it wise for him to attend. 
His wife, Ann, and daughter, Eileen 

(Mrs. Jack Loritsch) represented Eddie and accepted for him the bound book of testimonial letters which had been sent to the committee for the occasion. The pi-esentation of the purse was made later to Eddie on the campus. His plans at present are to use this gift for a trip with his wife to the shrine of St. Anne de Beaupre. 
The committee had solicited spiritual bouquets for Eddie from his many friends in the religious orders. These were included iii the book of testimonials and were most instrumental in boost­ing his spirits during his convalescence. To all those who took part in this recog­nition of Eddie's long service to the University and for his own little acts of charity to students through the years, the committee is most grateful and joins with Eddie in expressing sincere thanks. 

The faculty of the University were represented at the dinner by Doctor and Mrs. Charles C. Price, Doctor and Mrs. John Magee, Doctor and Mrs. Lawrence 
H. Baldinger, Doctors Andrew J. Boyle, George F. Hennion, Ernest Eliel, and Brother Columba, C.S.C. 
Fathers James Anderson, C.S.C., of Portland University, and Gilbert Bulfer, O.S.B., of St. Bede's College, were present and presided ably for the ghtce before and after the meal. 
Others who attended the dinner are as follows: Tom Bardos, Dan Barton, Bob Birkenhauer, Leo Blatz, C. D. Chen, Jim Constantin, John Corrigan, Joe Dailey, Jim Danehy, Ed Dillon, Tom Dorris, Larry Eby, Milt Eisert, Ed Fredericks, George Gmitter, Tom Grady, Charlie Greene, Jerry Groebner and wife, Clar­ence Helbing, Don Kilian, Jim Kno­bloch and wife, AI Kolka, John Kroeger and wife. Art Kranzfeldsr, Jack Lor­
Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the Science School, handing Eddie Mahan a check honoring Eddie for his 40 years at Notre Dame. 
September-October, 1950 
Terre, Ed Tomdk, Norb Tonsnint, John 
Verbane, Jerry Vesdey and Bob Witneki. 
Since the mailing list which was used 

for contacting tfae alumni was incom­
plete, the committee realizes that many . 
others who received no word of the af­
fair wonld like to -add their bit to the 
testimonials which have already been 
sent. These may be mailed directly to 
Eddie, or to L. H. Baldinger in Chem­
istry Hall at Notre Dame. 

Feundotioii Governor Dios 
John F. McMahon, '28, an Alomnns 
who led a fight that saved thousands of 
workers from death in the past 14 jrears 
died at his own work. 
Hr. McHahon was managing director 
of the Industrial Hygiene Foundation of 
Mellon Institute, which had helped find 
preventives for silicosis, air pollution 
and other industrial health hazards. He 
was 47 when stricken at his desk with 
a heart attack. 
Mr. McHahon was a reporter on the New York Sun after graduation and went to Pittsburgh in 1932 as night edi­tor for Associated Press. He joined the Mellon Foundation four years later and in 1940 was appointed managing director. 
The Notre Dame Foundation feels his 
loss acutely, as Mr. McMahon was Foun­
dation Governor for Pennsylvania. 
Surviving are Mrs. McMahon and two sons, John and MichaeL 

Father Toomoy Elevated 
Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, '26, Director of Catholic Charities for the Diocese of Syracuse, N. Y., has been elevated to the rank of domestic prelate and now bears the title of Bight Heverend Mon­signor. 
Announcement of Father Toomey's elevation came from the Papal Secre­tary of State. 
Monsignor Toomey has been in his present position since 1943, and in 1947 was elected president of the National Conference of Catholic Charities. After graduation in 1926 he entered St. Ber­nard's Seminary, and studied at Ford­ham from 1931 to 1933 following his ordination. 
Two of his brothers are alumni— Francis J., '34, and John J., '39. 
FOUNDATION—(continued from page 3) tail, for follow-up, for check and re­check, but if this is done, new doors will be open for generous gifts in the future that may match those' we have already been able to announce. 

The Raconteur 
(Ths ALUMNUS /ms long considered tlie need for preserving much of the spirit of "old Notre Dame" as it exists in the memory of Notre Dame vieti old and young—particularly the former. As one effective means to do this, it will now give space in each issue for the retelling of stories of Notre Dame. You are a^ked to contribute any of general interest from your abundance. The Ra­conteur will then print these, in the number that space permits. Thus we shall have an accumulating fund of stories to be preserved by the Racon­teur of Notre Dame.) 
At a dinner meeting of one of the older classes, held at their recent class re­union. Father Matthew J. Walsh, for­mer president of the University, in re­counting the experiences of one who had taught history at the University to a second generation of Notre Dame men, found himself adverting to his own sim­ilar experience. 
Some time ago, Father taught a his­tory class in which were six boys whose fathers also he had taught. He said it was most interesting to observe that these boys had many of the same man­nerisms that their fathers before them had. One fellow would lounge in his chair, one would put his hand behind his neck, another would rest his chin on his hand—all startingly reminding him of their fathers when they were at the University. 
During many years teaching. Father Walsh said he had noted that when his classes assembled the first time after the Christmas holidays, the memories of its members were pretty much of a blank on what they had learned the fall pre­vious. The holiday activities had tem­porarily crowded out history. Most of the boys were inclined just to sit and wait for an assignment while the teach­er filled the period with talk on the things they had been studying; from this point, the student expected to go on with the matter, learn the assign­ment and be ready for the next period. 
In order to liven things up a little he sometimes gave them a quiz. So this day after Christmas, when the class assem­bled with the six students whose fathers he had taught, he said: "Now, boys, I'm going to give you a brief quiz on the Thirty Years' War: when it was fought, who fought it, why, etc." In the conternation that followed, scarcely any question was answered. • 
After contemplating the papers in si­lence for a little while, then raising his eyes with a look that meant rebuke, Father Walsh spoke. "Now there are 
six of you here whose fathers I taught 
before you, and when you write home, 
say hello to your dads for me and tell 
them that in history class the day after 
Christmas I asked you the very same 
questions I asked them thirty years ago, 
and got the same answers." 
Father went on to say that after due 
consideration, he thought he could detect 
some slight improvement in the second 
generation of Notre Dame men. 
* * * 
In the earlier years of the University it was not infrequent to make a penalty serve the added purpose of furthering the cause of Catholic education.. 
Among a group of new students there was the customary sounding out of the professorial patience with the inevitable breaking point. Fixing one of the ring­leaders, the professor issued the impos­ing (but long familiar to earlier genera­tions) penalty Write 2,000 words on Why I Am a Catholic. The penalty was prop­erly executed and the incident forgotten by the professor. 
Some years later, the student visited the campus as an alumnus and looked up his teacher: "You may not recall our first contact. But you gave ms a most difficult punishment, when you asked me to write an essay on 'Why I Am a Catho­lic'." The professor said, "That shouldn't have been too difiicult except for the length." "It wasn't the length. It was the research. You see, I wasn't a Catholic." 
Stiver Jubilee Mass for Father Patrick Carroll 
The ALUMNUS happily salutes an edi­tor who on August 12 observed his 50th year in the priesthood with a solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
This editor, of course, could be no one but Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, cs.C, who has served in that position since 1934. Father Carroll has guided the Ave Ma­ria from a circulation of 23,000 to its present 58,000. 
Father Carroll first attained literary eminence with his stories of his native Limerick, Ireland. Best known of these is his "Patch" series. Other works in­clude a volume of poetry, "The Bog," "Vagrant Essays" and religion text, "The Man God—A Life of Christ." 
Father Carroll was vice-president of the University from 1926 to 1929, has taught at St. Edward's and Portland Universities and for nine years was pas­tor of St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
Assisting Father Carroll at the sol­emn Mass were Fathers Michael Mul­caire, C.S.C., deacon; Thomas A. Lahey, cs.C, subdeacon, and Felix D. Duffey, C.S.C., master of ceremonies 
Stroke, Wofter Get Popof Decorotiofls 
Two Houston Alumni of the Universi­ty, M. E. Walter, '14, and George Strake were honored this summer by papal decorations. 
Mr. Walter, who had been the Hous­ton Club's Man of the Year, is manag­ing editor of the Houston Chronicle. He was made a Knight of St. Gregory by His Holiness Pope Pius XII. Mr. Walter was one of the American newspaper edi­tors chosen to view results of Nazi atrocities just after V-E Day. 
Mr. Strake, elected to the University Board of Lay Trustees in 1944, spent the summer in Kome with his family and was made a Papal Chamberlain. Mr. Strake is an independent oil operator. 
Rofond S. O'Neiff. '74. Buys Indiana Newspaper 
Ronald S. O'Neill, '14, member of a three-generation Notre Dame family, has bought the Argos, Ind. Reflector. He and Mrs. O'Neil will edit the weekly. 
Mr. O'Neil is the son of William P. O'Neill, '06, of Mishawaka and father of two alumni, William Roland O'Neill, '41, and John P. O'Neill, '48. William is an automobile dealer in Cincinnati and former B-29 pilot with 16 missions over Japan in the first act of World War II. 
New Superior General in Salute to Alumni Members 
The following letter vjos sent Alumni Secretary James E. Arm­strong by Very Rev. Christopher 
J. O'Toole, CS.C, newly elected Superior General of the Holy Cross Order. It was in reply to a con­gratulatory letter from the Alumni Secretary. 
"The Alumni of the University of Notre Dame constitute one of the glories of Holy Cross. Wherever they go, their praises are sung. This is a tribute not only to them personally but to yourself and to your fine organization which has united them so closely throughout the world. My prayer is that our Alumni will grow in prestige and influence and leadership in every possible field and in this way become the leaven of Christian­ity wherever they may be. 
"In the name of the Congregation of Holy Cross I thank them all through you, first of all for the splendid way they are carrying on the spiritual and academic traditions of the University of Notre Dame, and secondly for their grreat generosity in helping Holy Cross to meet the financial problems that arise in any large educational institution." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Wkat on Ae imIMbaA

Pfocement Director William R. Dooley 
wants to du^ie jobs do thimi^ Ae Fhce­meUBmean? 
Outlines Operation of the New Bureau 
"His first step should be to write to 

With the beginning of the new term on Sept. 14, the Notre Dame Placement Bureau, directed by William R. Dooley, '26, former assistant alumni secretary, began its first complete schoolyear of full-time activity. 
Alumni know that placement has been part of Notre Dame for many years past. But it was only on Feb. 1, 1950, that it was established as the full-time activity of one office, with Bill Dooley in charge. New quarters for the Placement Bureau were officially opened in the Main Building on April 13, just after the Easter vacation. 
Located in the West Wing of the 

gi-ound floor of the Main Building (down 
where the Brownson-Carroll refectories, 
locker rooms and washrooms are a vivid 
memory for "old-timers") the placement 
offices consist of an outer office, a pri­
vate office for the director, a store room 
(which retains the marble walls of its former shower room glory) and two in­tei-view rooms for the use of numerous personnel representatives who come to the campus to interview seniors and gi-aduate students. 
In these offices, Bill Dooley and his chief assistant, Jane Pilarski, confer with hundreds of students and alumni. 
What's the objective of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau? 
"To help a man help himself," said Bill Dooley. "We know that even in the most favorable circumstances we can't get a job for a man. He has to get it for himself; we are glad to help. 
"To provide such help, we offer group counseling, individual counseling, ap­propriate books and magazines, lists of employers, company literature, regional literature (from Chambers of Com­merce), sample letters, sample personal qualification records, printing service, mimeographing service, picture service. All such aids are of course in addition to the employment interviews which we arrange for the campus and the employ­ment contacts which we set up by mail. 
"The Testing and Guidance Depart­ment, headed by Ed Quinn, '28, is right next door to the. Placement Bureau and works in the closest association with it. The test scores and other information compiled for the student during his ear­lier years in the University are on file in the Testing and Guidance Department and are available to the Placement Bu­
September-October, 1950 
What can the alumnus, reading this ar­ticle, do to assist the work of the Placement Bureau? 
"His biggest help," ansewered Bill Dooley, "will be his constant, active in­terest in the fact that we do have a Placement Bureau at Notre Dame and that we are in a favorable position to help many kinds of employers with their personnel needs. If the alumnus will act upon this information at every oppor­tunity, and pass the information along to others, he will give us a tremendous lift. 
"Already in the Placement Bureau we've seen the practical working out of this kind of active interest on the part of alumni. Many members of the June, 1950, class are working now because alumni were responsible for additional employment interviews on the campus last spring. 
"Individual alumni can aid the Place­ment Bureau by (a) encouraging busi­ness and industry and employers gener­ally to send personnel representatives to the campus to interview students and 
(b) by encouraging them to communi­cate with the Placement Bureau when­ever an opening for a college man appears." 
me, asking for a confidential placement registration form," replied Bill Dooley. "With aid of the information provided in that form I will do two things at least: I will give all possible advice and practical suggestions, and I will keep the registration in an active file in the expectation of matching it with a job opening notification. We do, especially in some fields of employment like engi­neering and accounting, receive a good many calls for experienced men. 
"It is of course imperative that every alumnus registering for placement aid keep his registration up-to-date. We have to know, at least every 60 days, that he is still available. If we dpnt hear from him, we transfer him to oar inactive files." 
What about dw local Notie Dame c!iA placement comnuttecs? 
"In the large dubs, there is, or should be, one man especially charged with MH sisting those local alimini, especially Uie very recent graduates, who need plaee^ ment aid. Those alumni who roister, with the campus Placement Bureau should of ^course register with the local placement chairman also. In the medium-size and small clubs, the president of the club can normally handle placement aid him.=elf during his term of office." 
Live Television 
The following stations are carrying our four home g^mes and the Navy game in Cleveland LIVE over the DuMont Television Network: 
New York . .WABD Philadelphia _ . __^VFIL Baltimore _ -WAAM Washington ^VTTG Pittsburgh _WDTV Buffalo _WBEN Eric vacv Toledo —WSPD Rochester — -WHAM Detroit WJBK St. Louis „. KSD ' Chicago ^WGN Columbus WTVS Cinciimati __WCPO Dayton _WHI O Grand Rapids __WLAV Syracuse -WHEN Johnstown . _WJAC Cleveland _ — _\VXEL Milwaukee _WTMJ Richmond — _WTVR Sclicnectady — _1VRGB Memphis — _WMCT LoutsviOe --^WAVE Omaha .— ._KMTV Providence — _WJAR NoTfoUt _WTAR Rock Island « .._WHBF Kansas City — _WDAF Dcs Moines ^WOI Minneapolis — ..AVTCX Indianapolis — _WFBM Utica -WKTV Greensboro _.WF.MY Charlotte -WBTV AtlanU _WAGA Jacksonville — -WMBR Lansing _WJIM Kalamazoo -WKZO Birmingham — ...WBRC Huntington .— _WSAZ NashviUe __WSM 
All other stations that are DuMont affiliates, but not served by the co­axial cables or micro-wave relays, have asked to have pictures of the game. These will be made available to them by the Monday ni^ t follow­ing the game, through arrangements with TEL-RA which will film the games for DuMont. 
Sept. 30—North Carolina October 7—Purdue 
October 28—Michigan State November 4—Navy (at Cleveland) 
November 11—Pittsburgh 
A $7,893,300 Question 
How Does a University Annually Manage to Spend All of Its Income . . . And Then Some? 
By REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, CS.C. 
Several months ago a member of the University administration chanced to look in on the Midwest Hotel Show at the Stevens in Chicago. A lady delegate to the convention, startled at sight of a Roman collar in the Exposition Hall, asked her companion what on eai-th a Catholic priest could be doing in such surroundings. The companion, who happened to have met the priest on a visit to the campus some time before, replied: "Why, that's Father So-and-so from the University of Notre Dame, and I suppose no one in this • room has a more legfitimate reason for being here. At Notre Dame they lodge more persons than all save our very largest hotels; and they serve more meals each day than the Palmer House." 
Grand Hotel . . . 
Truly spoken! Approximately 15,000 meals served daily in the University dining halls and "coffee shops"—cafe­teria. Huddle, Eockne MemoriaL Up­wards of 3,S00 young men housed for nine months of the year in thirteen separate residence halls. And in ad­dition, the provision of food and lodg­ing for numerous conventions with at­tendance ranging from a dozen or two individuals to 1,500 men on three-day retreat—or 2,800 youngsters and their chaperons gathered for a Catholic Stu­dent Mission Rally. 
The customary soda fountains, cigar counters, news and souvenir stands; the auditoriums. Drill Hall, and Gymnasium readily convertible into assembly and exposition halls. And occasionally one of the large dining halls or the Rockne Memorial magically transformed into a grand ball room for Junior Prom or Sophomore Cotillion. 
There are the laundry, the mainte­nance department, the heating plant, the battery of administrative offices, the public relations department, the "reser­vations" clerks. There is the army of butchers and bakers, cooks and waiters. There are the maids and janitors, the "house detectives" and house doctors, the carpenters and painters, plumbers and electricians. 
The food bill comes to ?1,017,500 an-
Father Murphy is Vice-President in charge of Public Relations at Notre Dame. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1938. Father Murphy attended the University of Notre Dame, Gregorian University and the Biblical Institute in Rome, Italy, and Catholic University. He is a native of Racine, Wisconsin. 
nually, the milkman alone collecting ap­proximately $6,300 the first of each month. Maids' and janitors' salaries for the year amount to $282,300; their sup­plies add another $114,000 to the budget. The coal bill comes to $102,000, t\vo car­loads a day—or more than 100 tons—be­ing consumed in extremely cold weather. Annual operating costs for the paint shop are $39,200, for the electrical de­partment $35,200, and for the plumbing shop $57,600. 
Grand Hotel indeed! 
.. . or Big Town? 
But perhaps it would be more accur­ate, in view of the many other depart­ments and operations maintained by a modem university, to speak of Notre Dame not as a hostel but as a munici­pality of upwards of 5,000 individuals. 
Here is a listing of some of the operations of the City of Notre Dame, Indiana. The operating costs of the various departments have been taken from the Budget for the fiscal year end­Power and light 65,000 Roads and grounds 50,000 Publications 63,700 
ing June 30, 1950.  
School system  $2,496,500  
Administrative and general  
offices  690,100  
Health service  54,700  
Libraries  263,300  
Recreational and athletic  
programs  616,300  
Police and fire protection  53,300  
Laundry  service  •  91,200  
Postal service  30,000  
Telephone and telegraph  33,000  
Heat, water, sewage  
disposal  223,500  

And no possibility of floating Munici­pal Bonds either! 
0\'craII Budget Picture 
The above is only a partial listing of the University's current expenditures. Space does not permit the griving here of a detailed report of income and ex­pense, but the overall picture may be given briefly as follows (again, the fig­ures are taken from the Budget ap­proved for the current fiscal year): 
Income (estimated) 
Educational and general 
(incl. all student fees) $5,435,200 
Auxiliary enterprises (athletics, 
public cafeteria, book store, 
golf shop, etc.) *1,730,000 
Endowment and investments 
interest 125,000 
Restricted funds (contracts).... 527,300 
$7,817,500 
• Net income after expenses: $297,200. 
Expenditures (approved) 
Salaried and wages (monthly 
payroll approximately 
$356,000) $4,274,500 Supplies and expenses 2,611,600 Repairs and maintenance 200,900 Capital items 279,000 Restricted funds (contracts).. 527,300 
$7,893,300 Operating deficit $ 75,800 
It is worthy of note that educational and general income—including all stu­dent fees — fails by approximately $2,500,000 to cover operating costs. 
The current Budget with its sizable operating deficit still makes no provision for capital or contingency reserves, or for depreciation. Depreciation, if in­cluded, -would have increased the operat­ing deficit by some $400,000. However, inability to take it into account is not too disconcerting in view of recent gifts to the University for building purposes. 
- (sec Question, page 38) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Athletics 
Knute Rockne has become the twelfth sports immortal to be admitted to the Helms Hall of Fame in Los Angeles. The announcement was made by W. E. Schroeder, managing director of the in­stitute. 
The Hall of Fame Award will be pre­sented to the University for lodging in the Rockne Memorial Trophy Room. The distinguished company of sports greats includes Walter Camp, Dean Cromwell, Dwight Davis (the Davis Cup donor), Baron Pierre de Coubertin, founder of the modern Olympics, William Garland, who brought the 1932 Olympics to the United States. 
Connie Mack, A. A. Stagg, Grantland Rice, Dr. James Naismith, founder of basketball, A. G. Spaulding, and James Sullivan, founder of the AAU, are also included. 
Injuries Plague Squad 
Injuries have been the big IF in the 1950 football picture. 
Paul Bums, junior g^uard, was the first casualty. He suffered an elbow sprain, according to Hugh Bums (no relation), the athletic trainer. Bob Toneff, junior tackle, wrenched a knee, Billy Barrett sprained an ankie and tackle Bill Flynn was out of action with a hip bruise. 

Chet Ostrowski strained a neck muscle to end what Hugh Bums hopes is a plague. The injuries were not severe enough to keep any of the players out of scheduled games, but did sideline them for practice. 
"It's just the old law of percentages," Hugh Bums explains. "They, catch up with you sooner or later, and I guess this is the year. Fortunately, none of the injuries is severe, but they certainly were more numerous than in any year I've been with the team." 
Athletic Director Krause Sets Basketball Schedule 
Dec. 6 Franklin College at Notre Dame 9 Anderson College at Notre Dame Wisconsin University at Notre Dame 
u 
Northwestern U. at Chicago Staditim 
16 
Iowa U. at Iowa City, Iowa 
18 
Indiana U. at Indianapolis, Ind. 
22 
Purdue U. at Indianapolis, Ind. 
23 
Northwestern U . at E\'anston, III. 
30 
St. Louis U. at St. Louis, Mo. 

Jan. 3 Butler at Notre Dame 
5 
Loyola U. at Notre Dame 
9 
St. Xavier U. at Cincinnati, Ohio 
13 
Kentucky U. at Lexington. Ky. 
13 
Michigan State College at Lansing. Midi. 
25 
Butler U. at Indianapolis, Ind. 
30 
Marquette U. at Notre Dame Fib. 3 DcPauI U . at Chicago Stadium 

10 
St. Louis U. at Notre Dame 
13 
DePaul U. at Notre Dame 
16 
Michigan State College at Notre Dame 
19 
Canisius College at Buflalo, N. Y. 
24 
New York U. at Madison Square Garden 
26 
U. of Pennsylvania at Philadelphia, Pa. 
27 
Marquette U. at Milwaukee, Wis. 

Mar. 3 
Fr. OToofe Elected New Superior General of CSC 
Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., for the past five years Vice-Pro­vincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross, was elected Su­perior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross at the closing session of the Congregation's General Chapter in Rome. 
Father O'Toole, whose headquarters will be in New York City, succeeds the Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C., who has served as Superior General of the Congregation for the past twelve years. Father O'Toole was elected for a six-year term. 
Other major changes in the Congre­gation include the election of the Rev. Theodore J. Hehling, C.S.C., who since 1946 has been President of the Univer­sity of Portland, Oregon, as Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Priests of Holy Cross. Father Mehling, whose headquarters will be at Notre Dame, succeeds the Rev. lliomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., who has served as Provincial for the past twelve years. 
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Vice-Pres­ident in Charge of Academic Affairs at Notre Dame, was elected Assistant Su­perior General of the Congregation. Father Kenna will have headquarters in New York City. 
In the United States Province of the Brothers of Holy Gross, Brother Ephrem O'Dwyer, C.S.C., was reelected to a six-year term as Provincial. Brother Eph­rem became the first Provincial of the United States Province in 1946. His headquarters are at Notre Dame. 
Father O'Toole received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1929, his Bachelor of Philosophy from the University of Lonvain in 1939, his Master of Arts from Catholic Univer­sity of America in 1942, and his Doc­torate of Philosophy from Catholic Uni­versity in 1944. 
Father Mehling received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1929, and his Master of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1933. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1933. 
The'new Assistant Superior General was Director of Studies at Notre Dame from 1944 until 1949, when he was named Vice-President in Charge of .Aca­demic Affairs. 
Brother Ephrem, a native of Tipper­aree, Ireland, came to the United States in 1906 and entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1907. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre 
Alex Wilson, slim as ever and youthful-looking for his 43 years, looks ahead to the Dame in 1923, and his Master of Arts indoor track schedule vtith Val Muscato and Jim Kittell. from Notre Dame in 1924. 
27 Clubs gave $23,010.25 so far in 1950 
Alumni Clubs 
Boston 
During tlic weekend of July 14-16. a small group of men attended the club's first retreat, a closed affair conducted by the Holy Cross Fathers at Stone-hill College. Xorthcaston, Mass. Present were Jo­seph Gartland, Chairman of the Retreat Committee, Jim DOOIEV, Tom Reid, Dick Hcriihy, Neil Fowler, Si KcIIett, John Riordan, John Vaughn, Cummings Giardino, Chuck Colton and Harold Ncxinan. Ever\'one was much impressed with the arrange­ments at Stonchill College, and evcrvone was grateful to Joe Gartland for his large efforts as head uf the Retreat Committee. 
In a dilTereni mood and with a different intent, club members gathered together with their families a montli later—on Thursday, August 17—at River­side Recreation Grounds, Auburndale. Mass. They found that Committee Chairman Mike Manzo had done an especially fine job of making ready for them, assisted by Dick Herlihy (who w*as in turn assisted by his fiancee, Kathleen, a charming vocalist and a young lady with business acumen—she was the only one present who thought tu pick up the cup containing the beer money at day's end.) Several families arrived in time to take advantage of golf facilities and swimming facilities, but the majority began the picnic w*ith supper on the porch of our rented hall overlooking the Charles River. The long-awaited Softball contest between Alumni Youngsters and Alumni Old-Timers turned out to be a fairly snug pitchers* duel for two innings, as indicated by llie 3-2 score, in favor of the Old-Timers. But in tlie third double disaster .struck the bearded ones: Pitcher-President Jack Dufre>- suddenly lost his stuff, and the defenses behind him collapsed ratlier com­pletely. This could only have resulted, and it did result in the kind of thing that happens when the Red Sox engage the St. Louis Browns. The game was soon called because it was loo dark, and because the Old-Timers were, apparently, too old. 
In attendance at the Picnic were the following families: Mr. and Mrs. Gartland and three cliildren; Mr. and Mrs. Jerr\- Crowley and one child; Mr. and Mrs. Harr>- Marr and six of their seven (at­tendance prize); Mr. and Mrs. John Moran and tiiree; Jack Nye Duffcy; Dick Hcriihy and his fiancee, Kathleen; Mr. and Mrs. Larr\- Kelly with their three children and mother-in-law; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph O'Marah and three children; Dick Lamcre and his younger brother, Jack, who is cur­rently a junior at Notre Dame; Charles Burke, Bill AVeir, Louis DiGio\-anni and girl friend, Pegg\-; Mike Conlej-; Mr. Quigley and son, of Chicago; Chairman Mike Manzo. 
—Chuck Patterson, '44, Secretar>*-

BuflFolo 
Transit Valley County Club was the scene this year of the Buffalo Club^s annual golf party .^ug. 
29. A heaw morning rain and threatening after­noon clouds cut the crowd total somewhat, but a nice turnout made the tournament an>'way. 
Chuck No\'ak won a leg on the club trophy with a low score of 71. Maurice Quinn came in second, one stroke higher than Chuck. 
Most of the Old Reliables, like Dan, Paul and Joe Shecdy, Jack McKendr%-, Jack Ktihlman and Chuck McCarthy were on hand. Coming out for tlic chicken dinner whicli follotved the golf were j€>e Dunn, Tony Brick, Carlos Frank, Chuck Nagcl, Jim Seymour, Tom Dowd, Joe R>'an and Bus Pfiel. 
Chairman Chuck £mst won a special prize for the most flubbed drives. Dan and Paul Shecdy both won kicking prizes and Bill Castle's high gross score won him a pound of excellent grass '^ced. Prizes were donated by the Buffalo Chiit. 
Central New York 
Tlie first event of a busy summer season was a Golf-Dinner Party held at the Tuscarora Countn.­Club on Thursday, July 20. Tliis annual party has long been a tradition of the Central New York alumni for it was 25 years ago this summer that an outing of this type was first Iield. The first golf party, in 1925, consisted of Leo Kelley, Jim Hux­ford, George "Duke" Kinne>-, and Bill SuIIi^'an. The four pioneers have not only attend every golf party since then but have been outstanding leaders and participants in ever>' alumni affair through the years. No respect was shown for the "Founding Fathers" in tlie annual putting contest, however, for Jim Huxford, as defending champ, was ousted by Jim Manning. 
On August 18, the "Student Send-Off" was held at the Cavalr\- Club, near S>Tacuse. The party was open to alumni, present students, students entering ND this fall, and their parents. One of the high­lights of the affair was that all had a chance to meet Johnny Lujack, George Conner, Bill Wightkin, Ernie Zaieski, and Johnny Mastrangcio, all of whom were in town for a pre-season charity game between the Chicago Bears and New York Giants. Joe Bach, taking time off from his coaching duties at St. Bonny's. was also in town for the game and joined the gathering. Tlie students proved they were in much better conditing than the slightly aging alumni by trouncing the grads in tlic annual softball game. As president of the student club, Floyd Blair, holds the trophy until next years "Scnd-OfT." The outing was ver>' well attended and very successful, due to the efforts of Bill Kclley, Ted Kelley, and Jack Terry, who collaborated as co-cliairmcn. 
Meanwhile ticket sales have been going well in the raffle of Michigan State-ND game tickets. Co­chatrmen Paul Lonergan and Phil Kclley expect tliis year's sale to top last year's North Carolina-ND raffle. Tlie next get-together will be for the drawing of the winning tickets, to wliich all alumni and friends arc invited. The drawing will be held Oct. 11, at "The Chateau," in Syracuse. 
The club lost one of its most active members, and one of the officers elected for this year when Bill Catc, vice-president, left Syracuse for Detroit. Ed Kcnefakc was elected by the Board of Directors to ser\*e in BilFs place. 
A great honor \%-as bestowed upon one of our club members and officers, when the Rev. Joseph B. Toomey was elevated to the rank of monsignor by His Holiness Pope Pius XII. Word of the appoint­ment was released by the Most Rev. Waller A. Focr>-. Bishop of Syracuse on Sept. 5. Monsignor Toomey has been Director of Catholic Charities for the Diocese of Syracuse since 1943, and is a member of many committees on charities and social welfare on the state and national level, as well as the local. 
In the social news department. Bill Dw>-er was recently married to the former Miss Eileen Marie Cappoti. in St. Anthony of Padua Church, in Syra­cuse. Bill has since been recalled to active duty by the Na\-v. and is now at Norfolk, Va. The engage­ment of Paul W. "Bill" Kelley, Jr., to Miss Sally 0*B>Tne, of Syracuse, was announced during the past month. Bob Taylor is accepting congratulations on the birth of a daughter, in August. 
Columbus 
Recent activities of the Columbus Club: 
Summer activities of the local club were climaxed by a fbh fry held on September 8th at the City Country Club. The affair was very well attended 
Two-Pkitoon System for the Irish Greens 
John Carmichael, Chicago Daily News sports editor, offidatiiig at the mike for the Michigan City Club's Irish Greens Party held July 27. at Long Beach Country Club. Back of him are "Doc" Kolanczyk, club president, and Joe Boland, waiting to go on the offense. Far right is Walt Tinun, vice-president The loud shirt belongs to Athletic Trainer Hugh Bums, who has his own two-platoon system now: Kevin and Kathleen, bom Aug. 27. 
Krause Got a 98 » Hinkle Kept Score 
Moose Krause teeing oS at Highland Country Club, Indianapolis, while two other athletic directors and Paul Schrenker of Anderson smilingly wait their turn. Paul Hinkle (left) of Butler shot 83, Guy Mackey of Purdue got 81 and Schrenker was low with a tournament winning 77. 
witli some 50 members bting prcscni, Harn' Nesler bi-mg general chairman and doing an excellent job. 
Regular meetings were not held during the summer months but were resumed in September. The Club has concluded all arrangements for the special train from Columbus to Cleveland for the Na\'\' game. 
Many of the present students attended tlic Hsh fr>' and the club appreciates their interest and co­operation. 
Connecticut Valley 
If this club has been absent from the Club Sec­tion of the '"Alumnus** in recent Issues it's simply that we had no summer club activities. 
With the advent of cool weather, however, we'll 

be more active, as witness the current program: 
.A Sept. 11 business meeting at Hotel Bond in 

Hartford. 
A club outing in Xew England's crisp autumn air, complete with corn roast, steamed clams, fat man races, etc. Club President Matt Meskell has a proposed program wliicli will be reported on more fully in forthcoming issues. 
Dayton 
The Dayton club is going to have a chicKcn-in­tlic-rough dinner on September 21, at which time we will rafHc tlic five prizes which arc four (4) tickets to each of the Notre Dame home games. The pur­pose of the rafHe is to start an Alumni Fund. 
Cleveland 
The Xotre Dame Club of Cleveland has had the most successful and enjoyable summer on record. The .\nnual Golf Party on July 27th set a new at­tendance record with 121 for golf and a total of 139 at'dinncr. Held at the beautiful Elyria Country-Club and co-chairmenncd by Larry Krai, *3I, and Doc Al 0*Brien» '33, with the usual fine help from John Chappla^ the event will long be remembered for the excellence of weather, golf, dinner and prizes. 
September-October, 1950 
Over 60 prizes rewarded golfers and diners, with Tom Kennedy, *47 (ex-Cap't. of the ND golf team) walking with the honors with a 73; and Dr. 0*Brien close behind with 75. Ed "Moose** Krause attended the gala afTair and made an informal and interesting talk after dinner, explaining rather convincingly why we wimld lose 5 or 6 football games this fall. Father **Mike** Moriarity showed movies of last year's golf party; and a goodly sum was raised by a benefit for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
On Sunday. August 13, from 2 p. m. till shadows fell, and children nodded, the Annual Family Picnic was held at Gllmour Academy. Over 200 Notre Dame men, their wives and children gathered for this increasingly popular affair. There were games and contests, prizes and refreshments for all. Our Lady saw to it tliat the weather was perfect. The ground crew consisted of Norm McLeod, *29, as Chairman, and Dick Tupta, '43, and Vic Gulyassy, '42. 
As a finale of the summer festivities, the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame held their 2Ist Annual Sum­mer Dance. Advertised as the "Dream Ball" by able chairman Gsorgc Hammer, It was certainly that. Over 100 couples danced to the music of George Duffy at the Hotel Statler. To club prexy Bcmie Endres and his student helpers goes a sincere "well done." And Mrs. Jack Elder and her committee of wives were responsible for the large alumni turnsut. 
Towards the end of July a surprise visitor to the Best Location In the Nation, was Rev. John H. Mur­phy, C.S.C. He was entertained at an informal din­ner at Rohr's Restaurant by the officers of the Club and a group of alumni hurriedly rounded up by teleplione. Those who attended were treated to a clear and valuable forecast of the Foundation's work—an ever better Notre Dame. Father Mur­phy's knack for'remembering names—and nick-names —his ready wit and profound knowledge make him a wonderful emralssar>% a Jim Farley, of Notre Dame. Ever>' alumni club should book him at least 
NA\'Y WEEK-END NOV. 4ih 
The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland welcomes all alumni, wives and guests to our fair city for the Notre Damc-Na\-y contest. Great pU u now hciag completed assure you of an enjoyable week-end. Ten­tative plans call for a b ^ rally and informal dance in the Rainbow Romn, Hotel Carter, Friday n^t , Novcndier 3. Also, Saturday night, same hotel, an informal Victory Dance.. 
Out-of-town guest may idake reser\'ations, locate 
old friends or since-forgotten roommates by writing 
to: 
Notre Dame Club of Cleveland 
The Old Arcade, Cleveland, Ohio 

or by telephoning the above office—Cherry 1-2636. 
You may address: 
Genera] Chairmen: Bill Van Rooy and T. Edward 
Carey. " Chairmen of Rally: Fat Canny and Ed Killccn. Chairmen of Dance: Bcb Stack, Vic Gnlyassv, and 
Gene Kan=. 
Denver 
A pleasant diange was sad by the members when they held their July meeting at Ernie's Supper Club. A delicious dinner was enjoyed by all before the meeting. Jim Hanlon, Chairman of the FooHiall Committee, gave a report on the plans being formu­lated for the Football Special Trains for the Michi­gan State game at South Bend on October 28 and the Southern California game at Los Angeles on December 2nd. 
There will be two ticrkets for the Southern Cali­fornia game raffled off as announced by Frank Coa­way. Chairman of the Raffle Committee. 
Work on the C\vb director)*, as announced by club president Tom Cnrrqpui, is 'progressing satis­factorily and the finished product should be completed in the very near future. A sound film of all action of the 1949 World Series of baseball between the New York Yankees and the Brooklyn Dodgers was shown by John V. Coyne, club vice-president. 
In August the Annual Scholarship Award Winner was announced by the chairman. Charter HaskcU. The winner this year is John J. O'Hara, a graduate of Regis High School in Denver, and a nephew of Bart W. O'Hara, Class of 1932. The Scholarship is valued at $500 and will be ^plied to the recipient's first year expenses at Notre Dame. The fund is estab­lished by the proceeds from special traliu sponsored by the club to Notre Dame football games. 
Detroit 
On Wednesday, July 12, the Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its annual golf party at Bonnie Brook Country Club. Toai SliediaB and Marvin Martin were co^airmcn and there were about 50 who played golf and stayed for dinner and the evening: 
Guests from the University included Rev. Jolu 
Denver's Scholarship 

Tmn Canaan, i^ht, picsident of Ike Dat> ver Alumni Club, handing John J. O'Han the club's scbolanhip to the Univeisity. 
H. Murphy, C^.C , vice-president in cliargc of pub­lic relations; John N. Cackle}-, Jr., Foundatlnn Staff Director and Athletic Trainer Hugh Bums. Rev. John M. Dapuis, C.S.C., philosophy teachrr at King's College, Wilkcs-Barrc, Pa., was also thcr.-. 
One feature of the evening %vas tlie presentation by Louis E. Guise of Detroit to the University of the compass and compensator salvaged from the tri­motor plane in whicli Kniitc Rockne was killed March 31. 1931. 
Fort Lauderdole 
Xcw officers of the Fort Lauderdale CIu!» arc: Bill Ullkcnson, '29, president; Jim E\-ert, *48. vice-president; John SuIIn-an, '31, treasurer; George Gore, '48, secretary-. 
The club holds a regular meeting the first Wed­nesday evening of every month. Thca; nre dinnrr meetings and every other meeting is open to wives and feminine guests. The club offi-rrs extend a hearty welcome to all visiting alumni and friends \viio arc in our vicinity and w'tAi to attend any of our meetings. Just call Geoi ^ Gore at Fort Lauder­dale 2-3665. 
At the last club meeting president Bill ^Vllkcnson announced the results of a recent election %vhereby Fred SteH*art, *I4, was elected Kotrc Dame Man of the Year for the club. Incidenlallv friends and classmates of Fred may be interested to know tliat lie is recovering from a five week hospital slay where he had a scries of operations. He is now on recupera­tion in Georgia. Mail for Fred will reach him at Hogans\-illc, Ga., c/o E. W. Hincs. 
New club members attending the August meeting were Jack Se^ell, '49; Bill Burkhardt, '31, and Bob Mundl, '50. 
Fox Volley (III.) 
On Sept. 1, 1950, at the Lake Country Club in Crystal Lake, 111., the Xotrc Dame Club of the Fox Valley met for its annual golf and dinner outing. TTiirty-fivc attended. Father KfcCormack of Cr>*stal Lake was elected ciiaplain of the Club for the following year. 
Fafher Mendez 
Herewith the standard picture of Father Mendez, fttnn Univeisity files. Father Men­dez requested the print, to clarify readers of the Alumnus on Mexico's ban of re­ligious garb in public 

Anaya Dead-Pons a Witticbm 
Alfonso Anaya, '20, center, with dark glasses, gets a laugh from the president of Mexico, Miguel Aleman (right) and the president of Mexico's Supreme Court of Justice, Salvador Urbina (left). Anaya's joke came at a dinner tendered him on his election as president of the Mexican Journalists' Association. 
Frank McCarthy of '06 ^v-a5 recognized as tlic oldest active member in the club. 
Fox River Valley (Wis.) 
The Family Picnic highlighted the activities of the Fo.i; River Valley Notre Dame club. It was held at Menominee Park, Oshkosh, on the last Sunday in July and was attended by about 50 members, wives children and guests. 
Largest family present was the James Kmus family, mother, father and 9 Httlc Kraus'. President Bob Bernard wasn't too far behind with his 5 boys. TIic children had a potato race, relay race and backward race and played softball, while the adults stuck to Softball and conversation. 
It \vas Dutcli treat, with refreshments available. .\mong those pri^scnt were: John Brunke, Fred Chrjstman, John Christman, Fred Heinritz, Russ Skall, Dick Stack, Gus Zudilke, Richard Dungar, Dan Gar\-cy, William Wcnzcl, and Tom Frawley of Applcton; \\llliam and Joseph Fieweger, Jim As­muth. Bob Bernard, Ralph Caston, Richard Kelly, James Kraus, and Bernard Leroy of Nennah-Mena­>ha; Tim McCarty and Neil McCarty of Kaukau­na; Charles Ftss and James Marheine of Oshkosh. .Arrangements were made by Joseph Fieweger, Dick Stack and Chuck Fiss. 
The club presented a Spiritual Bouquet to R. J. Fieweger, fatlier of \VUliani Fieweger, '36, and Jo­seph Fieweger, *43. who died September 5th. Each member ofTered his Holy Communion Sunday, Sept. 10, for the repose of his soul. Mr. Fieweger, presi­dent of the Bank of Klenasha, was very* devoted to Our Lady's school. 
Grand Rapids 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids and Western Micliigan held its annual summer outing at John Prawd£k*s farm and cottage at Stewart Point, Spring Lake, Micliigan, on Saturday, July 15. 
TIic affair was a large success and credit should be given Charles Duffy and his committee. Besides the usual outdoor fun at such gatherings extra en­tertainment was provided In the form of moWes of six actual horse races. In each race the guests placed their bets, odds being calculated on a pari­mutuel basts. Several were winners. The club is indebted to Bob Woodfaoiue and George Weiss for putting up such a unique program. 
Recently the committee headed by Joe Moore to revamp the club constitution met at Joe's home and the proposed revisions were presented the mem­bership at the fall meeting Sept. 19 at the K. of C. clubhouse. Committee members ser\*ing with Joe are Ed Dunne, Jim McDermott and Bob Linscy. 
From this stronghold of Michigan partisans, the club is chartering four buses to the Michigan State game. 

Indianapolis 
.\ugust 29's golf party at Highland had quite a turnout—85 for golf and 125 for dinner. On tlie Highland course were quite a few celebrities, in­cluding Archbishop Paul C. Schulte, of Indianapolis 
His Excellency was tied with 79 with Leo Bam­horst and John Kiley, the 1948 winner -A the tourna­ment. Moose Krause came in at 93, in a foursome that included two other athletic dir*ctor.<: Paul I^ukle of Butler and Guy Mackey of Pui'iuc. HinMe shot an 83 and Mackey 81. 
Bob Kiiliy \.*as toashno^itcr at the dinner follow­ing the tournament and did his usual fine job. Guests from the University incJuded James E. Ann­strang. Alumni Secretary, William R. Doolcy, Plac'> ment Director for the University and Fathsr James Norton, C.S.C., acting \'ice-president in Charge of Academic Affairs. 
Winner of the P. C. Rcilly Memorial Trophy was Paul Sdmnker of Anderson. He shot a seven-ovcr­par 77 for the prize. Father George Holderitb, C.S.C., Unn-ersty golf coach shot one stroke over Schrenker's 77 to lead the guests who played. 
Louisville 
Joint Summer Outing was held July 29th with Xawer (Cincinnati, Ohio) Club of Kentucky and was the largest turnout In three years since our merge for a smnmer picnic. 
Colcnd Fdir, member of Notre Dame's first foot­ball team was present and in good health. He is very active for his age. 
Oscar Voo Allmeo, Club Secretary, left for active duty August 28th with the Marines. John E. Mack, '40, 2041 Tyler Lane, Louisville, will fill the office for the balance of the year. 
Plans for North Carolina and Michigan State foot-ball train trips arc progressing nicely with a sizable number of rescn'ations in for both games. 

Orphan Car under supcrx'Ision of Frank Bloemer has arrangements in hand. This year 70 orphans again representing Catholic and non-Catholic or­phanages will make the North Carolina trip. 
Memphis 
Finally gathered a bit of news about the Notre Dame Club and its members here and some of the activities ^vhich have taken place. 
First of all tlic annual Notre Dame Club Picnic was held on August 26 and the Club's new president, Eugene Podesta, '48, arranged a fine party with plenty of beer and barbecue for all. Some of those who attended were Dorsay Mathis and Phil Canale, '40, Jim Welsh, '41, Galvin Hudson, Jerry FoIe>-, Louis Sampson^ Pat Burke, Bob Barry, Bob Buzan, RafTe)* Mulroy, and lots of others. Msgr. F. M. Kearney, Club Chaplain, also was present having just returned from Rome, Italy, where he had a special audience with the Pope and celebrated Mass in many of the famous chapels and churches in the area, including the main altar at St. Peter's. .Also at the picnic were several who are entering the Uni­versity this fall. 
GaKin Hudson and P. A. McPhillips, Foundation Fund leaders in Tennessee and Memphis, have called their first meeting for the Fall period to organize their forces to insure continued contributions and support of the Foundation program. 
Ever>* Notre Dame alumnus here says he is going to the Tulane-ND game at New Orleans, Oct. 14. Plans arc already undcr%vay for a Notre Dame Banquet during the Christmas holiday's. 
Noteworthy Achievements: Fred Bauer, Jr.—One of five elected to the traffic advisory committee of Memphis. Michael J. McConnack, '99, a nicnilnT of the new Notre Dame 50-Year Club. 
Mexico City 
Saludas! To our south of tlie border alumni, on their formation, last Aug. 9 of a Mexico City Notre Dame Alumni Club. Prime mover in the organization was Father Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., who got the club ofT to a start with 27 members. They are: William O. Oguayo, '30; Alfonso Anaya, '23; Dick Bernard, '48; John P. Bleeg, Jr., *32; Paul J. Bush, '48; H. Francisco Castro, '27; Carlos .A. De Landero, Jr., '37; Tclmo De Landero, '37; Rene £. Dunand, '31; Rudolph B. Garza, '23. 
Rafael N. Gomez, '27; FeUpe del Ho>-o, '05; W. 

E. Jasper, '27; Ed C. Labatthe, '32; Richard C. Leon, '47; Enoilio Longoria, '45; Aimand Lopez, *41; John M. McGrath, '07. 
G. Alvarez Morphy, '31; Ludo F. Muniain, '33; Harry Newning, *14; Carlos Palomino, *27; Jorge Palomino, ^27; Roberto C. Rosales, '47; Henry J. Sullivan, '46, and J. E. Vera, '10. 
Club officers arc: Telmo De Landero, president; Harry Ncwning, honorary president; \^cen t I Gomez, secretary. 
Founding of the club was marked by a dinner at Afcxico City's University Club Aug. 9. Reports Father Afendez: 
*'Mr. C. Crowley, dad of Dennis and Cliarles at Notre Dame, sent the President's *Afariochi' players to serenade us. Tliey even played the Vic­tory March—did we sing!" 
Michigan City (Indiana) 
The Michigan City Club's Irish Greens party this year featured, as usual, golf at the Long Beach Country Club, refreshments on the course and a 16­ounce sirloin steak dinner in the evening. 
Three hundred played golf, competing for a share in prizes that totalled ?1,200 in value. Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of pub­lic relations, represented the University. Alumni Sec­retary James £. Armstrong drove his new Studcbak­cr into Michigan City, but arrived too late to play golf. 
Prizes were distributed to winners by the platoon system. Alumni Director and second vice-president Joe Bdand alternated with John Carmichacl, sports editor of the Chicago "Daily Neivs" in the task. The tournament was in the hands of a committee headed by Dr. Cy Wojak, Hugh (AthleU'c Trainer) Burns, and club vice-president Walt Timm. 
September-October, 1950 
Sports publicity director Charlie Callahan, assbtant coaches John Druze and Bill Earley and Fatkcn James Carey, C.S.C., and George Holderith, C.S.C., also represented the University. Paul Neville, Soath Bend "Tribune" sports editor sampled the golf course during the day. 
Our club is planning a trip for the Indiana game at Bloomington, Oct. 21. We expect to have 300 reservations this time. Last year's trip to the Purdue game at Lafayette was such a big success that the club decided to make this an annual affair. 
Milwaukee 
The Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee -has been active during the summer. First we salute and congratulate Glenn Mast of the class of 1949 who was married to Elizabeth Ann Hahn on July 15 in South Bend. 
On July 27 the annual Notre Dame Golf Jam­boree, under the able direction of our former presi­dent Bill Malansy, was held for Notre Dame men and their guests at the Port Washington Country Club. A record turnout made the entire day a great success. The golf tournament was followed by a steak dinner at ^v*htch prizes were awarded. Dona­tions from various members of prizes made almost evcr\-one a lucky winner. 
Miami 
One of the finest turnouts for a regular monthly meeting heard Gene Ellenson, University of Miami Line Coach, address the Alumni group on Thursday night at the Mtamian Restaurant. Those who failed to attend missed one of the most entertaining talks the Club has heard in quite some time. EUenson pointed out the many difficulties encountered in ac­complishing the growth the University of Miami has 
realized in the football world. Ellenson expressed the 
hope that ND will be willing to schedule the U. • 
of M. within the next few years and that ND alumni 
of Greater Miami will assist towards the goal. 
The program chairman for the September meet­ing is George Brautigam and Georgie says he will, provide us with a program that will top the August session. An invitation will be extended to the Fort. Lauderdale Club to attend our next monthly mect-­ing. This will be the first of a scries of inter-club visits by various ND clubs in Florida. 
A building is being proposed by several alumni of various universities to house all activiues of all Alumni groiqu In the area. If such a project could become a reality there is no doubt It would be a tremendous success. IVobit and Bnuitigaai were sq>pointed as a committee to* further determine such a possibility. 

Jocko C:inlan, Fr.d Jon's and Dick Sadowslu are still working on the Football airtrips for the Tulanc and Michigan State games. 
The annual Notre Dame picoiic was a great suc­cess with approximately 60 or so in attendance. A full course meal with seconds and thirds of bar­becued chicken was the high spot of the day not to mention all the soft drinks you could consume for free. The kids did a wonderful job on this. .{Note: For those who made reservations-and can­celled them after rescr\-ations had been made with the Caterer the ND Club still had to pay the shot even tliough you couldn't come and even though you bad the best reason in the world. However, if you do not feel it equitable to pay for something you didn't get then please ad\-ise \V\ FrcddTe Jones 
and the Club will foot the expense.) 
On September 5 at the September meeting the mo«e "Noire Dame Football Highlights of 19*9" was shown and plans for the Fall ^ancc were dis­cussed. 
New members to the club roster include: Bob Du­denhacfer, 4021 N. Downer Street, Milwaukee; Ger­ald Gaffaer, 7225 W. Burleigh, MUw^ukee; Bob Raaf, 3240 N. 54th Street, Milwaukee, and Maurice 
G. Olsoa, 1110 W. Pamcll Avenue, Hales Corners, Wisconsin. 
We will try to get some pictures for' the next issue. 
Mohawk Valley 
Our organization sponsored a dinner Sept. 7 for this area^s undergraduates and thfise matriculating at the University this fall. The event was held at the Golden Teapot Inn, just outside Utica. 
Fifteen of these younger Notre Dame men attend­ed and the evening came off very well, thanks to co-chairmen Jack CKonrke and Michael McGutrl, Jr. 
In November we are ba\-ing a dinner dance for wives and guests of club members. This event is planned to be st^ed at Twin Ponds. At last year's party we all had a grand time and practically all of the area alunmi showed up. 
All the club members are looking forward to the football season and seeing those five games on tele-
Father Mendez and His Sincere Tie 
Father Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., being serenaded by Ftasideat Aleman's Mariodu Hayeis in Mexico City at the Aug. 9 formation of a Mexico CSty Almnni Chili. The tic is occasioned by a State ruling which bans religious garb. For a straight portrait of Father, see page 12. 
Planning for FootbaN Broadcasts in New Yoric 
Jim McGoIdrick (left), captain of the '38 team, John Hickock, eastern district numager of Hotpoint, Inc., which will sponsor radio broadcasts of Notre Dame games, Norman Boggs, executive vice-president of Station W^CA and New York Club president Jim Shcils con­ferring on the program for the New York area. 
vUiun. We are having a club get together on those Saturday afternoons and wHl provide the team with a cheering section "in absentia.*' 
Frank Linchan, club secretary* at Schenectady and secretary to the State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus is back in town (Utica) for a short stay working on a class for a third degree in honor nf Monsignor McCarthy who has been quite ill the past six months. 
Nebraska 
At our June meeting it was decided to have bi-monthly business meetings, and. during ailcrnaie months, ha\'e social meetings. For our first social get-together, Adrian Micek of Frehiont in-.-ited all members of the Alumni Association as well as ttic Campus club members to be his guests at' his c.-unp for a stag. 
On August 25 \\c attended the party at Adrian*?; place on the Platte River. The 35 in attendn:icf included alumni members, several campus club mua­bers and some of their dads. 
One of our most acti\'e members. Jack Finnigac, lias put his Marine uniform back on and has left -.t^. 
New Jersey 
What the world needs today is "more good minds and fewer stratospheric intcnects,** Dean James £ McCaztliy of the College of Commerce told a group of new Notre Dame students at the Military Park Hotel, Newark, on Sept. 7. Dean McCarthy spoke at the annual Freshmen Welcome of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey. 
"All the scientific progress of the last five hun­dred years has not znade the world a better place to live in," the Dean declared, "Spiritually we have been losing more than we have been gaining." 
Dan McCarthy blamed the threatened failure of American leadership in this period of grave ^vorld crisis on the weakened moral fibre of the people themselves. Our leaders, he pointed out, are not a class set ^art. Their faults and their shortcomings are a reflection of our own. 
Dean McCarthy scored modem education for its neglect in training moral, responsible leaders. Xever in historv', he said, have there been so many well trained men in the world and so few with proper education in the real meaning of the word. 
At yotre Dame, the Dean told the prospective freshmen, they would be linked "with the great tra­dition of Christian citizenship," which Notre Dame men all over the world have clierished since the founding of the University*. 
More than 200 Jersey alumni, and new students attended the affair. Parents of freshmen were also guests. 
A movie of the thrill-packed Southern Methodist game was shown. Angelo Berfelli, Notre Dame foot­ball immortal. >vho now coaches the Paterson Pan­thers, spoke. 
Joseph Abbott, of Paterson, president of the Jersey alumni announced that tlie club's raiBe of tickets to the Michigan State and Na\-y games would be held on October 23. He also announced plans for the an* nual Communion breakfast at the Alexander Hamil­ton Hotel, Paterson, on December 10. 
Alfred Zmijcwski, of Newark, star tackle on the 1949 team, was chairman of the affair. Elmer Mat­thcH-s of South Orange was vice-chairman. 
New Orleans 
TULANE GAME RALLY This year's Tulane game Is the last of the ctureat series and to make the occasion a memondile one for alumni coming to New Orleans a rally on the eve of the contest is being sponsored by the New-Orleans Club. 
THE TIME: 9 p. m. till midnight. 
THE PLACE: Grand Ballroom, Hotel Roosevelt, New Orleans. 
THE PRICE: ?3.00 per person, tax included. If you or friends are planning to take in the game, make a check or money order payable to the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans and mail it to: 
Mrs. Alma B. Pellticr, 624 Gravier, New Orleans, La. 
Make certain the address to which the rally tick* cts are to be sent is shown. 
The Tulane game has been designated as this sea­son's student trip, and an expected 500 students, in­cluding the band will be on hand. The rally will include dancing, entertainment, and a pep session. Ticket orders will be filled as received. 
LAST ITEM: Price of admission does not include food or refreshments. Beverage facilities will be ai'ailable. 
New York City 
The June meeting of the Club at the Biltmore on June 27th brought to the speakers stand one Frank Leahy—and a mighty meeting it was. Ap­proximately 400 members and guests were on hand to brave the tears and wails of the Fearless One and fire questions in an effort to find out what wc have in store come the 30th of September and North Carolina. In all, the meeting was one of the biggest of the year and shows promise of things to come in the way of attendance. 
Formal meetings for the summer months were abandoned some time back but various activities per­sisted. On August 11 th 26 of the club's stalwarts went into the real estate business in Tuckahoc and proceeded to move considerable quantities of God's geography from one spot to another in the form of divots at the Lecwood Golf Club. Again Jack Hoyt was the affable host, making complete arrangements and seeing to details that all enjoyed. Genial Jack 
Q. Adams knocked off the low gross honors with a 77, and that, on a rugged long course, is good golf in any man's league. Johnnie Abbatemarco proved to the rest of us that he could swing more often in the course of the day before settling down to a wonderful dinner provided by a fine non-alumnus friend, and president of Leewood. 
As this goes to the mails, Frank Conforti is hard at work arranging details of a Pre-School Dance for alumni, students and incoming freshmen from the Metropolitan area to take place at the Btltmore on September 8th. Frank was the overseer of this affair last year and if he does the same job again this year then our worries are over on its being a success. 
Despite the fact that we haven't a game here in New York this year, plans for the coming Fall meet­ings prove interesting already. Jack Lavelle will again m.c the "Kick-OfT* meeting in September at the Biltmore—and to the fellow in this area who hasn't been on hand to hear Jack recite the lore 
UHle Joe and Big Mac 
Cammerce Dean James E. McCarthy con­giatalating Joseph Inbriaco (left), 18-year­old Elizabeth, N. J., youth whose four-year high school average of 96 won him a schol­arship to the Univerdty. The New Jersey Chib donated the scholarship and Joe ac­cepted it in preference to a $2,400 scholar­ship to Harvard because he believes he'll get a better education at Notre Dame. 
uf football that is his own brand has missed an cvcning*s entertainment incomparable. October will bring about the annual football trip—this year to campus for 'the Michigan State game on October 28th. November will bring on the Communion Breakfast and December is in the making now . . . but that*s for another issue. 
Northern California 
Club officers and committeemen are busying them­selves with two oncoming events. The first is a "listening in" party to be held in the early part of October. Arrangements are now being made for a suitable place to partake of refreshments and food while listening to a Notre Dame game. Club members will be informed by mail just as soon as the date is set. 
The second event concerns the ND-USC game trip to be sponsored by the Noire Dame Club of 

. No. Calif. At a recent officers and directors meet­ing held at Paul Cushing*s home. President Bill Daley announced that plans arc well under way. A first class trip is being arranged in conjunction with the Southern Pacific Railway. Price of trip will include ticket to game, train fare, hotel ac­commodations in downtown Los Angeles, bus fare and baggage transfer. In conjunction, a ticket to tlic University of San Francisco and Loyola game sdicduled the following Sunday may be had if de­sired. Cost of this trip is pegged somewhere around $55. Full information will be announced to mem­bers in the near future. 
A Notre Dame Pennant has been presented to the club by Joe Bch. Future club meetings and afTairs will now be enlivened by the blue and gold. 
Some of the members got together for an out­door picnic at Adobe Creek in Los Altos. Among them were Bill Daley, Jim Rowland, Frank Perez, Joe Beh, Bob Tarver and Don Miller. This group of hearty athletes was spotted on the basketball court, on the football field, in the swimming pool and around the barbecue pit. \Vc understand the women helped the boys into the car and had to assume the wheel home. This once-a-year \vorkout can be rough on the muscles .. . eh? 
Norfhcentral Missouri 
Through the efTorts of Lowell (Red) Hagan, a meeting of Northccntral, Mo., Notre Damo Alumni was held August 30, 1950, at Mise Morris' cabin five miles north of Mexico, Missouri, for the pur­pose of entertaining future Notre Dame men, who will enroll at Notre Damei n the fall of 1950. These outstanding boys of northccntral Missouri and their dads enjoyed the afternoon and evening visit­ing with each other and Notre Dame Alumni. They were ser\-ed barbecue ribs prepared by Notre Dame^s Alumni-at-large, Doc Rhodes^ who really turned out a fine meal. 
Those present were: Ed Shsrt and son Tcmmy Short, Moberly, Mo., Vince Sfxlon and son Jerry Sodon, Hannibal, Mo., Dan HafiTnsr and son Yates HafiTner of Hannibal, Mo., and £d O'Brien and son Bob O'Brien of ^fexico, Mo. 
The Alumni present were: Orland Yates '33, Dick Heiser '43, Al Hciscr '49, Francis Hannegan all of Hannibal, Missouri, Jack Pearl '47, Norv Hunt* hauscn '40, Mise Morris '40, Lowell Hagan '34 all of Mexico, Missouri, Bill O'Kecfe '27, Moberly, Mo. 
Also present were Kenneth Shcau, Hannibal, Mo. '52 and his dad, Kenneth Sheau, Sr., and Bill O'Kcefe, Jr. '63. 
Northern New York 
Our Northern New York Club members are so widely scattered, it makes it somewhat difficult to send along much news. 
Our president. Father Don Gallagher, is a ver>' busy man. Along with his many other duties, he was appointed Diocesan Director of those visiting Rome during the Holy Year. 
Clyde Lewis, National Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars for the past year, has done a re­markable job. We are all very proud of him. 
Judge Con Carey has returned to private law practice. Ralph Cardinal has purcJiascd the Northern New York Hardware Co. in ^falone. 
September-October, 1950 
Paul Patton has his football candidates out at St. Lawrence University. Paul did a fine job last year —his football and hockey teams were terrific. 
Larry Hodge of Massena, who attended Notre Dame in the late twenties, is the new president of the St. Lawrence Club, K, of C. Council No. 1141. 

The tentative date for our annual election and get-together is Tuesday, October lOth, at the Holly-w<K>d Inn, on beautiful Chateaugay Lake. 
Ohio Volley 
Until recently the local club was more or less a social group, but now we have our sights on a target. 
We intend either to send a contribution to the Notre Dame Foundation or to set up a scholarship for some local boy. The club is not as yet agreed to ^vhich project it \\\\\ be. However, we have started to raise funds. 
First, ^vc raffled two tickets to the Na\y game; sold the raffle tickets at a quarter apiece and made a satisfactory realization on the project. We have not yet decided by membership vote on the next fund-raiser; hoivcver, ue are mulling over the notion of raffling an automobile. 
Next year we plan to add an all-expense round trip to the Pitt game tickets in the annual club football raffle. 
Oregon 
The July *\-\lumnus" deadline found six Notre Dame Cfub of Oregon men making the first annual Club retreat at Loyola House of Retreats, Port­land. Four of the Board of Directors—Fred Cunning­ham, '30, Tom Magec, '32, President Oscar Quoid­bach, '48, and ex-President Pete Sandrock, '39,— were joined by Ken Kirby, '42, and Bob Molin, '40, in launching the Club on this excellent annual spir­itual exercise. All are indebted to Rev. Joseph Grady, S.J., for his most helpful leadership. 
Another "first" marked with greater success was the Summer Round-Up, held July 31 in the parish hall of tlie Downtown Chapel, Portland. Sixty alum­ni and present students and their parents got ac­quainted and enjoyed the 1949 football "Highlights," narrated by Bill Schmitt, '04, Notre Dame FouncU­tion District Governor, who saw most of the games in person. The response to thb *'trial balloon" was most encouraging. The interest of students and their parents, who were "aiuious to know more of what Notre Dame is like" suggests more of the same. 
As a gesture of cooperation Avith another Catho­lic agency, the showing was open to seamen-guests of the Catholic Maritime Club.-Wc appreciate the help oi Mr. John Curry, club director. Rev. Jerome Schmitz, pastor, and Miss Estelle Callahan, secre­tary of the Downtown Ch^iel, in arransing. tbts first Round-Up. In keeping with Oregon's scenic. advaM­tages and excellent pid>lic parks (C. of C. Adv.), perh^is next year will see this become an oatdoor affair. 

Wc welcomed two June '50 graduates, J m Blaletis, Fhn Mcan.y, and newcomers Bill Mca^wr, '48. Kn­dolph Rice, '16, and Pete Trnkr, '48. Bill is now in the credit department of the U. S. National Bank (Main Branch) and Rudie is an accountant with the U. S. Maritime Administration. Pete has joined the sales staff of Van Camp Seafood and is associat­ed here with his brother, Toniy '47. 
Word has it that Wtamat Dart, M.S., '^ , has joined the Physics Department at the University of Oregon and that Ray Martin, '50, has moved from Toledo, Ohio, to Apt. E, 315 Chadwick St., Rose-burg, Oregon. Welcome, Frank and Ray! Let's hear from you. . . . Jim Rowland, '48, picks up his mail at the Multnomah Hotel, Portland, between field trips for Gold Seal Wax. 
Congratulations to Dick VoUstcdt, '50, oC Mc-Minnville, on his recent marriage to the sister of Dick Windislur, '51, also of McMinnville. The Volbtedts are making their home in Mcdford (VoU­stedt-Kerr Lumber Co., Meflford Hotel) and we're counting on Dick to dig up some more ND men among the tall timber of southern Oregon. 
The cigars were on Hn ^ Lacey* Jr-f '49, and the first-grandchild smile on Hi^h, Sr., ex '16, on the arrival of Claudia Marilyn on August 8 at Portland. Mother and daughter are welL 
Al GroM, '46, has been taking graduate work this summer at Ohio State. He returns to his teaching post at University of Pcnrtland this Fall. 
Charlie ICndifanU, '22, and his Monarch Forge and Machine Works were recently successful bidders on a large U. S. contract for machine tools. 
Philodeipliia 
As usual, another last minute summary from the Philadelphia club. 
On Thursday, Sept. 7, we had a nice turnout of students for our Father and Son Night. The high ^x>t of the evening was the showing of the dob's new football movie. We had this movie made from the news reel pictures of all the Notre Dame games. Sort of our own Highlights of 1949. 
Our purpose xs to show it in and anmnd Philadel-
Brainfrusfing fhe Scheneciady Picnic 
Getting the Schenectady family picnic plans oa VV "e (kft) Tom Hnriey, Bob Eektl, Bill Leonard and club secretaiy Frank Linehan. *••—fc«a '•'»™^ the shiftaieerci were M» props, that the committee really rolled dKm 19 aad went to WML 
IS 

Bill Shakespeare Fifteen Years After 
Now Export Sales Manager for Thor Power Tools, Bill Shakespeare relaxes with his two sons and a vou-know-what in his Statcn Island home. 
phia during the current i-eason to create more inter­est in Xotre Dame and particularly the Philadelphia CIul). \Vc are sending out notices to various organiza­tions tiiroughout the city informing them of the pic­ture and scttins up 3 scliedulc of showings. Any other Notre Dame clubs that are interested in show­ing the film can obtain information by writing the Philadelphia president, AMBROSE F. DUDLEY, 1123 X. 63rd St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
Dan Young is compiling a club directory and club members arc asked to notify Uill Bums, (secretar>-) at 520 Ott Rd., Cynwyd, Pa., of any address clianges. Another addition to club functions is our own listing in tlic Philadelphia phone director)'. Looks good to see that "Xotre Dame Club of Phila­delphia, 52 X. 2nd St., MArkct 7-4987." Use the number if you*re in town and we'll see if you won't like Philadelphia, 
COMING EVEXTS Dec. 10. I950~Communion Breakfast Feb. 27, 1951—Basketball XD vs Penn 
Pittsburgh 
T})c second annual family picnic was held July 20 at tlie I^dge in Xorth Park. Over 100 attended and enjoyed the day of activity and fun. All facilities of the park were available and special games and can-tests were provided for the children. A delicious picnic menu was prepared and refreshments were served throughout the day. Eugene Coyne, the gen­eral chairman, deser\-es special credit for his cfTorts to promote a good party. Since he inaugurated the affair. in 1949 as president, he was considered the best man to run this year's event. As assistants, he had Xeil Galone, Joe Popa, and Jack Monteverde, »vho proved to be ver>* helpful. 
Tliis family picnic has been so successful during the past two years that it is pretty certain to be continued in coming years. It provides an opportun­ity for members* wives and families to get together and it brings out members ^vho do not show up too frequently at other events. 
The second golf-party and dinner of the year .was given on August 17 at the Highland Country Club. This affair was not as well attended as it should have been. Golf started at 1:00 p. m. and about 20 members had a fine day to see what they rould do about a fairly difficult course. The best scores were turned in by Jiw Totten, Jack Sheedy and Don Fitzpatrick. Two s"'^ prizes, drawn by lot. went to Bill O'Brien and Dick Sheridan. Roast beef dinners were served about 7:30 p. m. to an increased number uho had come out later for the dinner, ^lusic was provided throughout the evening and the Higlilights of the Pittsburgh Stccler football games during 1949 were shown. General opinion was that this was a fine all-around part\' and it was only too bad that so many members could not make it. .-Vrrangemcnts were capably handled {as usual) by Carl Link and he w*as helped by Gene Co^ne and Larr>' Smith. 
Tliose in attendance not already mentioned In­cluded Jack Monlct-crde, John Mc^fahon, Larr*' OToole, Gene Co>-ne, Mike Sheridan, Dick OTooIc, Bucky AIcArdle, Pinky Martin, Leo Burby, Lee Kirby, Tom Kirby, George Kingsley, Bob Chamber­lain, Sam West, Alex Lesko, Ray Srsic, Bill Steitz, Al Felts, several guests, and R. V. Fulton, secretary. A buffet lunch wlil be served following the program. 
A supper meeting is tentatively sclieduled for late October, 3 communion breakfast for Notre Dame Communion Sunday, and a dance during the holi­day season, arc the actirities that are being planned bv the officers. 
St. Louis 
In June the Club had a vcr\' interesting meeting 
ivhercin football Iiighlight films were shown and 
there was a very interesting informative commentary* 
given by Hugh Bums of the University. 
Tlicre will be a meeting in the very near future 
to enable the entering freshmen of this area to meet 
the upperclassmen. 
Hank Dahm is chairman of the scholarship raffie this year, and he expects to start his project in the vcr>' neai- future. 
The Club picnic for the members and their fami­lies was held on September 10, and Bob Concannon was chairman. 
Jerry McDermott has been transferred to New York City, as result the Club is losing a very out­standing member who has devoted a great amount of effort to the Club, and at present is a Board member. 
Tom Trac>* who Js also a Board member, and has been very active in the Club during the time he has been in St. Louis, has been promoted to General Sales Manager of the Merck Chemical Company, and ii leaving for Xcw Jersey in the near future. We will miss botli of these gentlemen a great dal. 
The Club Js sponsoring a special train to the Micliigan State game, we have been informed by Fred McXeill, who is chairman of tlic committee. 
Saginaw 
We're pleased to pass along the word that the Saginaw Valley Xotre Dame Club is making an earnest effort to stimulate interest in Sotrc Dame tiiroughout the eastern part of Michigan. Last June we enjoyed a club picnic at Linwood Beach, on Sagi­naw* Bay. 
Our sights are now set on Oct. 28, the date of the Micliigan State game. Our local club, in con­junction with the local Michigan State alumni Is running an excursion to the game and interest in this locality concerning the contest w*as at fever pilch even before the ticket sale began. 
We plan to use the proceeds of this venture to further the cause of the Xotre Dame Foundation. From early indications the excursion seems destined for quite a measure of success. Our membership is continually rising and the coming year should be a banner year for us. 
Sciienectady 
.•\t a meeting held in July tlie new officers for the club were elected. Tliey are: prsident. Bill Leonard, '49, IW6 Baker Ave.; vice-president. Bob Eckel, '49, 814 Stanley St.; sccretaiy-treasurer, Frank Linehan, '45; Board of Governors, Dr. J. B. Phillips, '37, 783 \Vright Ave. All are from Schenectady. An ac­tive year is planned by the officers for the club. 
The first event that the club sponsored was a Family Picnic on Aug. 26th, for aUiiuni, students, parents and friends of Xotre Dame. It was a vciy* successful affair with over thirty families attending. Although rain caused the cancellation of the novelty races and a Softball game, indoor games were en­joyed by all. Dave O'Brien was awarded the door prize, a set of Xotre Dame records. 
Alumni attending with their families were as fol­lows: Tom McAlbter, Dave O'Brien, Bob Eckel, Bill Leonard, Tom Howley, Frank Linehan, George Kristel, Charles Flanigan, Jim Miller, Dr. John Phillips, Ray Rusek, John Huether, John Land, Jack Hurley, and Myles Duffy. Students attending with their families were: Dan Cafarelli, John Carlson, Ed O'Connor. Tlie officers with Tom Howley, *49, ser\*­ed as the committee for the picnic. 
Come Tuesday evening, September 26tli, the club is going to hold a *'Night" for the fathers of stu­dents and alumni. A gala program is being planned to honor these men whose hard \v'ork and interest made it possible lor their sons to attend Notre Dame. The campus sound movie, the Highlights of '49 will be shown, as well as other entertainment. 
Sioux-land 
Our club is more or less in the formative stage and we have had but two gatherings this year although both of them were very successful. Ed Simonjcb is our President, Bob Manning, Vice-President and Ray Duggan, Secretary*. Universal Notre Dame nght was held at the West Hotel where we had dinner and elected officers. Most members were present and included Ed Simonich, Bob Afan­ning. Dr. John Tiedeman, Frank Fitch, Jack Miller, John Mulhall, Charles Engelhart, Ed English, Mike Noooan, Ray Duggan and John McHugfa. Most of the wives attended, too. 
Hugh Bums was here June 22 and after a dinner at the West, he showed movies of the So. Methodist and Michigan State games of last year. These were well received and appreciated by everyone. 
Toledo 

Since his election as President of the Club in the spring. Jack Solon has been keeping the members well-informed by a scries of President's Newsletters. Jack attended the Presidents' Council on the cam­pus early in June and picked up a lot of information which he passed on through these letters and at the first General meeting of tlie Club which was held in the Secor Hotel on August 16. 
Among recent announcements: 
Committee chairmen for the year have been ap-pointed as follows: Membership and Attendance, George Schlaudeckcr; Religion and Citizenship, Bill Syring; Studcnt-AIumni Relations, Frank Venncr; Job Counseling, Joe Tillman; Finance, Frank May; Publicity, Joe Hillcbntnd. These are the committees recommended by the University for each Alumni Club, and Jack Solon has added a General Activities Committee which will be under the chairmanship of Pete Flugc and Harry Dctzer. 
The Club in the first year tiiat it has asked dues of its members, now lias more than one hundred paid-up members. 
Weekly lunclieons arc to be held again this year, at least through the fall season. The first one was Tuesday, September 19, at the Secor Hotel. A Club Directory is in the process of compilation and pub­lication, a distinctive membership card has been de­signed and distributed to members, and identifica­tion badges arc planned for the members to wear at all Club functions so everybody can call everybody e/se by name. 
The first General Meeting on August 16 brought 4itit a good attendance, fur vacation time, of more than thirty members. The older fellows were glad to sec the Class of 1950 represented by at least some of the eight new members added by the June Com­mencement. Jack Solon gave a ver>- excellent and informative talk covering all the news from the campus and plans of the University, the Alumni /\s­.<-ociatioa and the local Club for the year. Glenn Jackson, Program Director of WSPD-TV, local tele­vision station, gave a talk on Planning and Produc­tion of a TV show. Harrj' Dctzer then ran the movie on the Chrisloplier nrovement entitled. "Voti Can Change the World." wliich features the foimder of the movement. Father Keller, and several Holly­wood stars. 
It was announced at the meeting that Bill Syring had secured a reser\-ation for twenty members at the Manresa Jesuit Retreat House near Detroit for a retreat over the weekend of November 3, 4 and 5. Bill look rservations from those at the meeting who would be able to attend and asked that others wish­ing to go should contact him. 
Tri-Cities 
Lots of news from the Tri-Cities— 
The board of directors met recently and set up a full schedule for tlic coming months. The first big event is a Notre Dame Club Smoker to be held at the Knights of Columbus Hall in Davenport. We are planning on viewing the Notre Dame \"s. Purdue game. The main attraction will be the door prizes consisting of a paid expense trip for two persons to the Notre Dome-Michigan State and Notre Dame-Iowa games. Jim Doyle has been appointed chair­man of the affair assisted by \'ariou5 club members. 
The club secretary has' furnished each club mem­ber with a roster containing information about the members. 
The club as a whole is putting forth staunch sup­port for two of the local boys during the football season—^Art Perry (guard) and Jack Bush (back). It also has two promising freshman ff>otball players in Bill Martin and Joe Bush. Joe was named tackle on the AII-Amcrican High School team the past 

Proof That '45 Made That June Reunion 
Belatedly, the Alumnus prints a photo supplied by Al Lesmez, *45 secretary. Squmting into Indiana's June sunlight are, first row, left to right, Ed Laroque, Al himself, and Chuck Sartore. Second row, left to right, are Jim Retter, Dave Cartwright and Vince Gushing. Sorry about the delay, Al. 
September-October, 1950 
Our Auxiliar>* is still keeping the club in tiie lime­light with their Last-Wednesday-of-the-Month-Meet-Jngs. The August mcctins was held on the 30th at the Harms Hotel. Rock Island, with Mrs. Frank Tbul and Mrs. Otto Stegmaier as hostesses. It was decided at that time to hold a barn dance at the Saddle Club Bam, north of Davenport, on the 2Ist of October. The affair sounds like it will be a lot of fun for those who attend. Mrs. Robert Real will be entitled to the credit for the success that the dance will be. 
The 27th of September will find the ladies meeting at JuPs Danish Farm on the Illinois side of the Mis­sissippi Rix'cr. Mrs. Frands King and Mrs. Charles King arc making the necessar>- arrangements. 
The month of October will be a busy time for at least one member of the club. Bill Fhclaa and Miss Helen Schindlcr have selected the 2Ist as their wed­ding date. They will be married in the Log Chapel on the campus. 
Members of the club wish to extend the offer to any Notre Dame man who happens to be in tlic area the eve of the Iowa game to stop in at tlie Blackhawk Hotel as activity of some form will no doubt be in progress. 
Washington, D .C. 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Washington was sadden­ed by the death, in August, of Paul R. Mallon, '46, Doctor of Law. Mr Mallon was well-known in the field of journalism as a columnist. He was a former member of the national Notre Dame Alumni Board. The funeral w-as at St. Mar>*'s Church, Alexandria, Virginia, and serving as pallbearers \vere the fol­lowing members of the Washington Club: Leo Mul­qucsn, '17, Pat Conway, '30, Tom McKeWtt, '32, Tom Flynn, '33, Bob Cavanaugh, '36, and Paul Tully, '39. Many of the Club members assembled to say the Ro5ar>' for Afr. Afallon the evening before the funeral. 
Leo Mullen, '12, has returned from a pilgrimage 
to Rome. , . . The following Notre Dame graduates 
have been admitted to the District of Columbia bar: 
Joe Gall, Bill Mahoney, Larry AMntcr and Phil Ma­
loney. Rudy Anderson has become a-member of the 

Virginia bar. . . . Art Sandusky, '34, is a newcomer to Washington. He is an attorney with the Com­mittee on Interior and Insular AlTairs of the United 'States Senate. . . . Phil O'Connor, '50, and Bill 
Denning, '50. have been welcomed to the Club by 
President Flynn and are already becoming active in 
Club afTairs. 
Paul Tully, '39, is the president of the Catholic .\lumni Council of Washington. This group is made up of representatives of many Catholic colleges and universities m the East. Paul has been active in it for some time. 
The Washington Club held its first meeting of the Fall season on September 6th at the Carlton Hotel. Tlie attendance wus verj* large, stvelled to some extent by the students who had been invited to attend before their return to the campus. The alumni presented a check to the campus group to help in their operating expenses. 
Western Washington 
Members of the Western Washington Club par­ticipating in the annual retreats held at St. Martin's Abbey, during August, were our congenial and schol­arly Retreat Chairman Wlliam E. Tiemey, '01; U'. Jerome Kane, Club President; Charles S. La Cugna, Club Treasurer; August Von Boecklln and Joseph H. Nfanley attended from Tacoma; Harry Abel, Jr. "stood in" for his Dad, Harry Abel, Sn, who is in California. At a later retreat. Western Washington Club was represented by Kforris E. Star­rett and George Nyere. "Morrie" seldom misses a year. 
Western \Vashington Club members have a devoted interest in the annual retreats held at St. Martin's Abbey. An especial tribute to Geoi^e Nyere, for his untiring and excellent efforts m starting the retreat movement in the Diocese of Seattle, thirty-seven years ago. He had to personally guarantee any deficit that might occur, before he received permission to continue with plans for the retreat. 
\S. Jerome Kane, Club President, has recently been appointed Special Agent to AVestern Washing­ton Agency of the Northwestern Mutual Life In­surance Company of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

Contributioiis from Classes total $676,562.28 
Alumni Classes 
1892 
The "Alumnus" belatedly prints the news of the death of Mr. Fred B. Chute, of Minneapolis. 
Mr. Chute, who earned a Litt.B.. in 1872. was 77. His wife, Mrs. Elizabeth Hawlcy Chute and a son, Frederick H. Chute sur\-ivc. Mr. Chute was active in civic affairs and a leader in clmrch acti\*ity. 
He had been a member of the Minneapolis Board of Education, president of the Real Estate Board and president of St. Anthony's Commercial Club. 
From Otto A. Rothert, Louisville, Ky.: "I've visited Notre Dame three times since gradu­ating June 21, 1892. The last time was about 25 years ago. Five years ago, aged 75, I resigned as secretary of the Filson Club, a position I had held for 28 years. 
"I have written three bonks and a number of broclmrcs (1913-1949) all bearing on Kentucky histor>". A copy of cacli was sent the University library' at time of publication.'* 
1900 
Louis C. M. Reed, of New York City, who re­ceived a 50-Ycar Club award at the June reunions has \%Tilten a story for a recent issue of the Belgian Trade Review. Mr. Reed, who is president of Reed and Richards Transatlantic, Inc., titled his work "Be Kind to Foreign Trade Week." 
His friends will be glad to learn that Mrs. Reed has just recovered from a serious illness. 
Monsignor William P. Burke, pastor of Visitation Parish, Kcwancc, 111., celebrated his 50th annivrrsar>­of priesthood recently. 
50-YEAR REUNION 1901 June 8, 9, 10, I95I 
Luden K. Wheeler, a monogram winner in the 1897 football season and former FBI investigator died recently in Los Angeles. At the time of his death Mr. Wheeler conducted his own firm of investigators. 
A native of Mcchanics\'ille, la., he entered Notre Dame in 1897 and finished his scliooling at Iowa State University. He headed the secret sen*ice detail at the White House during the terms of Theodore Roosevelt, Taft, Wilson and Harding. He joined the Bureau of Investigation (later renamed the FBI) in 1923 and was one of the key investigators in the Tea­pot Dome scandals. He is also credited with sending the swindler Gaston B. Means to prison. 
Surxiving arc two sons, Jackson, an actor and Charles, vice-president of the Citizens National Bank, Los Angeles. 
45-YEAR REUNION 1906 June 8, 9, 10, 1951 
Carl J. Mahcr, former district judge in Fort Dodge, la., died last month at his home in Holly­wood, Calif. 
Judge Maher moved to Los Angeles in 1931 and had made his home there since. He practiced law in California but retired a few years ago. His wife, the former Jeanctte Stanoshcck, two sons, Charles and Frank and a daughter Mrs. Jacque Bellescseille, of Los Angeles survive. 
1908 
From Robert E. Proctor: 
(To the Alumni Secretary) "I appreciate the up­to-date list of names and addresses of our sur\'i\-ng class members. It is rather interesting to find 34 still in the land of the living. These fellows are pretty healthy specimens; I guess it is due to golf. 
"By tlic way, I played nine holes yesterday after­noon and not very good, either. My game inside of the green, within the 23 and 50 yard lines scoring zone, is not so hot, but I am certainly good coming down the fairway—right down the middle." 
1912 
From James W*. Bender: R.R. No. 2, Syracuse, Ind. 
Jay L. "Biffy" Lee this summer celebrated 25 years in insurance. In 1925 BIfFy, a former football great at the University gave up coacliing and enter­ed the equally competitive field of insurance. He founded the Buffalo Alumni Club, and was head of a large agenc\- there before transferring to Detroit in 1937. 
Since then his team has written over 30'/^ million dollars in policies in Detroit. BifTy is past president of the Detroit Sales Executive Club, and head of the Detroit Notre Dame Club three times. 
His greatest claim is that he entered .Albion (Mich.) College in 1908 with 26 cents and graduated in 1912 from Notre Dame with 80 cents and a wife. 
June 8, 9, 10, 1951 
1916 
35-YEAR REUNION 
From Grover Miller: The class is expecting a large attendance for the 35th Reunion next June. Monthly reminders are being sent to all class members and a program is in the making. The following have already wTittcn they'll be there: AI Btck, Ed Bcckman, Bill Bradbury, Bob Carr, Hugh Carroll, Russell Downey, Joseph "Stub-
Contributions by Classes 
Amount 1900 and belorc 21 members contributed $ 1,396.30 1901 6 
Year No. Class Members 
123.00 1902 . 6 
193.00 
. 10 263.00 1904 . 10 1,075.00 1905 . 6 320.00 1906 . 11 444.206.23 1907 . 8 330.00 1908 . 9 390.00 1909 . 9 3,791.00 1910 . 9 1,280.00 1911 . 23 638.00 1912 . 12 2,902.50 1913 . 13 520.00 1914 .30 1,006.00 1915 1,230.00 1916 1,242.30 
1917 1903 
1,740.00 1918 
. 23 378J0 1919 
. 16 477 JO 
1920 . 28 1.214.00 
1921 .29 1,624.00 
1922 1,933.20 
1923 2;017.23 
1924 . 36 2,337 JO 1923 5,863.23 
1926 81 2,638 jO 1927 100 2,668.23 
1928 103 3,147.00 
1929 
98 6,278.34 1930 102 2,571.00 1931 147 3,393 JO 1932 —116 2,789.38 1933 136 3,047.50 1934 125 2,730.73 1935 141 3,042.16 1936 109 l,589jO 1937 126 1,902.00 1938 155 2,990.00 1939 146 2,650.00 1940 165 3,074.25 1941 178 102,139.00 1942 __161 1,829J0 1943 160 2,291.23 1944 131 1,747.15 1943 73 759.00 1946 73 635.60 1947 _.___ 203 2,031,50 1948 283 2,474.00 1949 __399 36,513.70 1930 308 1,610.00 
by** Flyim, AI Fteund, Al Fries, Rev. Pat Haggerty, Tom Hayes, AI Hosinski, Ray Hiimphrc)3, Louis Keifcr, Casey KrapcwskI, Hugh Lacey, Joe La-Foitane, Walter McCourt, DeWald McDonald, Pat Maloocy, Ed Marcus, Grover Miller, Rev. Vincent Moooey, Emmett MulhoUand, Burt Roberts, Dr. Paul Wood, Leon Woodford. 
Recent deaths in the class: Rev, Phillip Gallagher (1947); Judge Russell Hardy (February 3, 1930): and Tom Trader (1947). 
From London, England, a postcard from .Ann and Joe McLaughlin, dropped on their way in a Holy Year Pilgrimage to Rome. 
Your class secretary-: Grover F. MiU:r, 612 Wis­consin Aw., Racine, Wisconsin. 
1917 
From Fred L. MahafTey (111 N. Pennsylvania .Vc., Indianapolis 4): 
*'I*n send this news item to the Alumni Secretary", since I can*t locate the address of the '17 class sec­retary. [Ed. Note: The '17 secretary is Mr. Ber­nard VoU, 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend] Baby giri (Maureen} bom, and this makes a half dozen. And they are not cheap. Not being a grandchild thought this might be news." [Ed. Note: It is.] 

1918 
We have been wondering why we don't sec more of Allan W. Fritzsche so we picked up Who's Who and found out. He is so busy running manufacturing plants that I doubt if hb family sees muc:h of him. Allan is president and general manager of The General Industries Company of Elyria, Ohio, which is one of the largest custom moldcrs of plastics in the country and the largest manufacturer of phonograph and record changer motors in the world. One hope­ful thing, Allan belongs to the Rockwell Trout Club. 
Dr. Nen J. Whalen has his office at 1515 David Whitney Bldg., Detroit, Mich. He is a practidng physician and has been in Detroit for the past twenty-four years. If you are in Detroit, look him up. (Don't wait until you have to call him.) 
Joseph T. Rilrv, LL.B., '18, is engaged in the practice of law in Muskegon, Mich., makes the foot­ball games and occasionally attends the Western Michigan Notre Dame club meetings. 
Wonder how many of you knew that Tom King was Director of Alumni Relations for Michigan State College at East Lansing. By the way, Tom, what are you going to do on October 28th? 
Wc offer our belated congratulations to Joseph A. Crat-en. Mrs. Craven gave birth to a daughter April 3, 1950. This is the fourth child bom to Mr. and Mrs. Craven. Joe practices law in Denver, Colo., and is attorney for the Catholic Archdiocese of Den­ver. He is a Knight of St. Gregory and is chairman of the Den\*er Notre Dame Foundation. 
Just saw^ a clipping containing a picture of Geoise B. Waage who used to knock them dead in the mile while we were there. George is with the Chicago, Milwuakee, St, Paul and Pacific Rail­road in the capacity of the Company's sleeping and dining car representative In the Chicago Union Sta­tion. The picture wc saw was in a track suit. Won­der if we would recognize George now. 
Edmcnd I. F<^cy, former export sales manager for 

A. B. Dick Company, resigned from that company on May Ist to become associated with the Eraser Vaper Company of New York City, one of the most important paper companies in the field. Ed has organized a separate company known as the Folco Products Company with headquarters at 6814 Clyde Avenue, Chicago. Before organizing his own company Ed q>ent twuity-four >>ears with the A. B. Dick Company during which time he was with the sales divinon and since 1942 has been export manager. Ed is married and has two daughters and a son graduated from Notre Dame in June of this year. As Ed says **Tempus Fugits right along." 
Your clam iccretarr: George E. Haxbert, 108 N. Main St.> Sycamore, III. 
1922 
Wc of '22 are plenty happy about the giorious 17 to 7 victory of All Stars over the Philadelphia Eagles. Of course, ue are elated because the AU Stars won their first victory in three years against the pros, but mainly because rhcy were coached by uur own Dr. Eddie Anderson uh» ha? returned to Holy Cross after a decade at Iowa. Dr. Eddie would be the very first to extend due credit to the wonderful players on hts squad, and to his very capable assist­ant coaches including Marchie Sch%vartz of the class of 1931, but Eddie himself is wotthy of much uf tlic gIor>' in the team's victory. 
It was Dr. Eddie's mania for A-1 physical condi­tion of his players which paid huge dividends. Every member of the squad of 50 except one man was cer­tified by combat service against the Eagles, and all entered the fray except the one man, and not a single All Star player was injured in play. We sa­lute Dr. Eddie for his masterful performance in physically conditioning his squad, and for the ex­cellent coaching he gave his men which brought i>uc\\ wonderful results. He is the football coach of the hour, and in addition is a real gentleman, and one who is loyal to the Xth degree to his friends and co-workers. 
David Worth Clark, former U. S. Senator from Idaho, who has been sitting it out on the political sidelines for a few years, has entered the list again to unseat Senator Glenn Taylor. In the primaries just completed. Worth appears to have an unofficial margin of 1100 votes over his opponent for the U. 
S. Senatorial nomination on the Democratic ticket. We hope Worth makes the grade for the nomination, also, that he is elected, and becomes what he is fully capable of becoming—one of the standout men in the Senate. 
Our sincere sympathy is extended to Louis Moore of Provo, Utah, over the recent death of his father in Kewannee, Illinois. Also, it is extended to other members of the Moore family. Please remember Dad Moore in your prayers, also, the mother of Clete Lynch, who died some months ago in Meri­den. Conn. We direct our sympathy to Dorothy Lynch, sister of Clete, and to others of the Lynch family. 
We are delighted to hear from an old friend, Frank Ott, who is Sales Promotion Manager of Wil­liam W. Fear and Co.. Inc., Troy, New York. We quote from Frank's letter: 
"I am a cover-to-cover reader of the "Scholastic*' and the "Alumnus". but I must have missed any reports about yourself because I had you all nicely settled in Rochester. As I pictured you, you were married to one of those good looking St. Mary's girls, or a reasonable fasctmile, and you had three daughters. Somehow, however, your daughters never seemed to grow older. They dared not venture be­yond your stature in height, so I just kept them small year after year (I have one that way myself) and thus did perpetual youth come to the Ashe family. 
"Now to find you a free soul! To think that Elaine in the Toiver to the East never encompassed youl As for me, it all began at the Northwestem-Notre Dame game of '20 when Gipp got pneumonia. Ward's shipped me out here in '29 as Eastern Advertising Manager, and here I am today holding the door open at 233 South Main Avenue, Albany, awaiting the day when you arrive in Albany and can make your headquarters in our quonset. I'll give you a choice of 6 bedrooms and throw in a private bath as an inducement if you will stop over. I'll even turn over a place up in the mountains to you if you will stop ofT. It would be a great thing to see you again. 
"I have written to Ric McCarty and asked him if he wasn't in the engraving business. That was my recollection. No reply to date. As for Mr. J. DofJey, I sec that one man is not the one of Wyn-wood Mills." 
Your scribe had luncheon in early July with Har­old McKee, Jerry Dixon, Tom McCabe and Joe Fariey in the Chicago Union Station. Later the same day, the Western Springs McKecs and the LaGrange Farley consolidated for a picnic roast on the Farley back lawn. 
Harold McKee and wife Ellen, daughter Loretta and son Earl, have just returned from a train trip to San Francisco, Portland, Seattle, the Canadian Rockies, Winnipeg, and the Twin Cities. By far, the high spot on the trip was their %'isit with the Chariie HindibuUs in Portland, Oregon. 
From Bob Sbea, law>-er at 25 Broadway. New York City, a postal card from Switzerland. Bob is, your secretary believes, the first Rhodes Scholar the ilnii-crsity produced and naturally the men of '22 are proud of him. 
MR.MALLON 

Paul R. Mallon, '23, former Alumni Board member and recipient in 1946 of an LL.D. degree, died July 30 in Alex­andria, Va. 
One of the nation's best and most widely read newspapermen, Mallon was best known for his daily column on Washington, "News Behind the News." Early in his career he established him­self as a "newspaperman's newspaper­man" and was twice honored with the presidency of the White House Corre­spondents. 
Mr. Mallon, only 49 at death, began his wrting for the Louisville . Courier Jotimal, then for the South Bend Trib­une, and later the United Press. He was assigned to Washington where he twice defied senate committees by refusing to divulge news sources. 
His last column from the national capital was written Sept. 16, 1947. He ended it ^vith "Don't you think a lot more people should go fishing?" and had lived in retirement since. His wife, the former Viola Jane Wingreene survives. 
1923 
Dan CuUiane broke into print recently with a sec­
tion in a book "Marriage and Family Relations," 
published by the Catholic University Press. The 
book is a compilation of some of the better papers 
delivered at 1948 and 1949 workshops in marriage 
held at Catholic U. 
From California, comes the news that Harry 
Flannery is a candidate for the U. S. Congress 
from his district. 
And from Phoenix, word that Al Picks has recover­
ed from major surgery and is back at his job in the 
Benton M. Lee, Picks & Tompane Investment Se­
curities firm. 
Your class secreUry: Paul H. Castner, 1305 West .Arlington Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
1924 
Leo C. Heringer and his wife arc on the Mon­signor Casey tour to Rome. 
SYMPATHIES 
To Miss Lula Daly on the death of her brother, Joseph L. Daly, who died Sept. 6. 

1925 
After oar grand 25th Reuiiioa I stqipoic it's oaly natural that there wouki be sort of **a bremtber" aad there would be a lack of aews. It %iroakl be aice to bear from the feUows who coulda't get back like.Walt Hacckcr. Uaixy MoGnic, EwtMCC Crifi­
•aa, To ^ Gonafex, Hayes FoOer, Bob BmOef, Aaat Miller, Cbariae Oe La Vergac and any of the others who just couldn't make it. 
A nice note £rom Biotber Melaric, C.S.C, wriiii^ for Fatbcr Kajr Honk, aS.a—'25. 
"Dear John—Father Nnris and I wish again to thank you for your kind visit and gift and ako for your generous he ^ in obtamii^ the wonderful col­lection of autogr^ihs of the members of the class oi '25. Our sincere greetings to you and all the family. Father Nonris includes Ms blessing with our prayers and best wishes." (As mentioned in the last issue of the '^Alumnus/' Father Ray has been in bed for eleven years and Brother Melaric has taken care of him for a good part of that time. Remember Father Ray in your prayers and when on the cam­pus, drop in to sec him at the Cfxnmunity Infirmary across the lake, or drop him a line.) 
Ball Voor of the South Bend law firm of Voor, Jackson, Grant & McMichael, writes, "That the re­union is still a topic of conversation aroimd these parts . . . those of us who played minor roles by helping Bill Ceracy, enjoyed our work very much and were delighted over the success of the enter­prise." 
The South Bend committee did a great job. Many thanks ;^ain to all the committees of our 25th reunion. 
Now let's talk about future plans. Here's a let­ter from your president, Doa Miller, which tells of the new class organization which applies to all classes as well as our own: 
"As you know, a new plan has been formed in organizing the classes as far as the Alumni Office is concerned. This plan will take away a lot of the work that now falls on Jim Awmstnmg. I have set up a committee: Bainie Bla^ab in cJiarge of the Far West; Ray CanaJngbw, in charge of the MkkUe­west; Dan O^cfl in charge of the East, and Clai& De La Vcigne in charge of the South.. AH will have the title of vice-president. Joki Hnrley will act as secretary and Hcnrr Wnncr as treasurer. 
"In additiim to the program set iq> by the Alumm Office, I believe this will be a great move for oar class individually in keeping in better touch with each mend»er. For example, this fall in New Orleans. I believe it would be a good idea for all the f25 class to contact QarBc De La Veigne and arraI^^ a luncheon chiring the week-end tA the Tnlane-Xotre Dame game. It would be nice to get our particular group together. That is merely a st^­gestion of the possible moves under this new plan. 
"With kindest personal regards and best wishes, I am. Sincerely yours, DON C. MILLER." 
Hank Woner, your new treasurer, has a ^lendld plan for keeping the class together by expanding our Mass Fund so that -in the future he coald be notified immediately iqwn the death of anyone of our class in order that the Mass could be sent to hb survivors' as soon as possible. (Hank's address is Henry C. Wurzcr, c/o Blackhawk Hotels Co., Daven­port, Iowa.} 
If our fund got laige cnot^b. Hank suggests we might try to incorporate an idea, trying to get the anniversary for the various members (^ our class who have died and also set up an anniversary Mass for them. (A great idea, Ha^. ) At least to start with, we can have an annual Mass said, possibly on our Commencement Date when we can annually remem­ber our deceased classmates, wherever we are. Hank, Don and I would like comments and suggestions from the rest of the class on this idea. . . . Also give us news about yourself, and any of our classmates— write today. 
Word from Jnlin J. DawA of 1164 Pierce St., Gary, Ind. . . . Julius is branch manager of V.F.I.A. (I think the insurance men will know what the ini­tials mean). He is %irith the Dobis-Danch agency dealing in real estate and insurance. 
He and wife, Gizella, have six daughters, one married. Julius B also a deputy proseruting attorney for Lake County (lad.). He has been active in H<^ Name Society affairs and the Notie Dame Laymen's Retreat. It's good hearing fnnn Julius . . . how about some more of yoa sending ne%vs of yoorsclvcs and families? 
Manrioe Yens is now Frater M. Comclius, O.C.S.O., and is at the Trappiit Cisterdan AfabcT. Our Lady of Gethsemani, Kentucky. The item comes from the University Placement Director, 
September-October, 1950 
Mr. Bill Doo]c>-, although he denies handling the 
transaction which put Mr. Ycnn in the Trappists. 
The letters O.C.S.O. stand for Order of Cister­
cians of the Strict C)bser\*ancc. Doolcy looked it up. 
From Tom Coman (Bureau of National Affairs, 
Washington. D. C) : 
"Hated to miss the reunions but was there with 
vou In spirit­
"1 wanted to get back to make a few comparisons with our classmates on certain vital statistics by which we measure our progress. 1—amount of hair remaining on the skull, 2—dimension of the waist­line, and 3—number of grandchildren. 
*'Figured I would do pretty well on the terms outlined since I have all my hair, approximately the same waistline and two grandchildren." 
News from the coast concerning A. W. McMulIen. In National Cash Register he's been upped from Pacific Division manager to Branch Manager at San Francisco. He started with National in 1929. 
SYMPATHIES To George C. Laughlin on the death of his wife. Sept. 10, 1950. 
Your class secretary*: John P. Hurley, 1218 City Park A%-e., Totedo, Ohio. 
25-YEAR REUNION 1926 JUNE 8, 9, 10, 1951 
Class Sccrctar\- John Ryan writes: REMEMBER '26 — PREPARE FOR '51 Time runs along and the days before our 25th reunion become shorter. Your Secrctar>' has been somcwhaf derelict in his duty but, as usual, has an alibi. If business had not gone so crazy in the past two months wc would be able to announce in this issue of the ALUMNUS several interesting matters in connection with our reunion. If any of you fellows really want to help the Class please write to your secretary and let him know where he can buy thousands and thousands of feet of railroad car lumber. With that business problem out of the way there would be more time to devote to the affairs of the Class-of '26. 

During tlic summer your secretary was fortunate in having the opportunity of raiting for a few hours with three of our classmates. During July on a flying business trip to Portland, Oregon, I arranged my lime to coincide with that of Norb Ka\-anaugh and thus spent a ver>' enjoyable evening with him. In spite of the fact that he is pretty badly crippled with arthritis Norb has been able to head one of the most successful law firms in Portland. Norb is still a bachelor. He expects to return for our reunion. 
WcMl get his stor>' in full a Httlc later. Having spent a few days in the Douglas Fir territory* around Portland it was only fair that your secretary give tlie Yellow Pine territory the once-over. In August during a week spent around Birmingham, Alabama, one evening *vas spent with Nig Crawford and his lovely wife. Nig is planning now to return in June of '51. At his home he showed mc some snapshots of the May 1923 snow. Remember? 
In between those two trips I was pleasantly sur­prised by a visit to my office by our Eastern Vice President, Doc Gelson. Doc w*as visiting Clii­cago as the representative of Lcahy-\Volfson Asso­ciates, Inc., the Leahy end of it being Frank Leahy, Their insurance business takes them quite a way afield from their Park Avenue, New York, head­quarters. Incidentally, fellou-s, if Doc could find my office in Chicago so can you. Any time you are near 310 S. Michigan Ave. in Chicago, how about dropping in to Room 1401 for a visit? 
But enough of personal experiences, happy as they were for your Secretar>*. Let's get to tlic letters received from our classmates. As usual forty cards went out (and as usual with a quick deadline) and the response was fine, but could be better. Three or four holdovers from the last mailing, re­ceived after the deadline, help to keep it from look­ing like your secretary- quit working. 
First of all, let's have a report from two of our oldest classmates. From Holy Trinity High School in Chicago Brother Victor, C.S.C., writes that for nearly 40 years he has been teaching General Science and Language. He meets a few classmates now and then but his school work keeps him pretty bus\-. He says that when one gets close to 70 it is neces­sary* to slow dou-n' and conscr\-c strength for the job at hand. I'll bet he could give most of us a pretty good race right now. From Cretin High School in Saint Paul Brother James Walter writes 
Dies September 3 
Father Frederick T. McKeon, C.S.C, 

known to many students and graduates 
of an earlier generation, died Sept. 3 in 
the Community Infirmary. He was 76. 
Father McKeon was a native of Mt. Carmel, Conn. He was ordained July 23, 1907 and last served in 1937 at the Uni­versity as an instructor in Modern Lan­guages. In that year he retired. 
During the Mexican Border warfare in 1917 he served as an Army Chaplain because of his knowledge of Spanish. After release from the Army Father McKeon taught physics at University of Portland until 1920, when he re­turned to Notre Dame. 
From 1937 until 1948 he served as confessor to the Sisters of Holy Cross at St. Mary's College. 
that tlie Christian Brothers have kept him bus\­for 50 years tcacliing in their various schools. While Brother James keeps in toucli with the doings of the Twin Cities ND Club he docs not have much oppor­tunity to take part in them. Both Brother James and Brother Victor received their M.A.'s with us. 
In one of those letters which your secrclar>' appreciates (missed the deadline but sent it in any­way for use in the next issue) Ed Burke uxitcs from Perth Amboy bragging about the Mercury. Ed spent a few years with his fatlier in the wholesale lumber business and then went into the finance business with Universal C.I.T. Credit Corp. until he took over the Perth Amboy agency for Mcrcur>' in 1946. Ed lost his father a few months ago. Among those who attended the wake were Tom Farrcll, Keman Wlngerter and Jim Waldren. Russ Riley of '28 was also there. Ed sees Jim Quiim *27 and Frank ^lilbaucr '25 now and then. Ed married 16 years ago and has a daughter in high school, a son fin­ishing grammar scliool and another son, 3 years old, who rules the roost. Ed says he hopes to be back for the reunion. 
Another holdover letter is that of Dick DocmcUy written from Fort Worth where he is Manager of Industrial Relations for Consolidated Vultce Aircraft Corp. Dick left us in '23 and returned to Cleveland and Western Reserv'c where he graduated in '26. From 1926 to 1943 he was with F. H. Hill Co., Cleveland casket manufacturers and then went with G.M. for two yt-ar.*-. going to Convair in 1945. Dick's son, Jim (21) is a pre-law student at ND, Tom (18) is a freshman at St. Edward's, Jane (17) and Patsy (15) arc high school students while Joe, Judy and Dick, Jr., attend parochial school. It looks like seven give Dick plenty of training so that the 19,000 employees would just be play. 
Norb Engels uses an expression that cropped up a couple of times in current letters—**a quarter of a century." During that time Norb has been teach­ing English at school except for the war years when he taught Engineering Drawing. He says he has gotten away from the music business except for an occasional New Years Eve toot of tlie horn. Norb has had several books published and the Catholic magazines have carried hundreds of his stories, poems and essays. Norb has two sons at ND and his daughter is a Iiigh-schooler in South Bend. Believe we can count on him to be present at the reunion. Perhaps, since he is right at hand wc can put him to work. 
Since 1932 Lou Franke has been in the real estate business with Baird and Warner of Chicago, in recent years as District Sales Manager of their Uptown office. In the early years after '26 Lou roomed ^vith Bill Dorgan^ Bob Dolezal and Frank Ness. Lou spent a recent weekend with Al Grcen­wald who w*as with us for three years, and finished at Oklahoma University. Lou is married (since 1929) and lives at 1611 Albion .Ave., Chicago. 
After a icw mfmths of law practice Jim Glynn went to the glass container industry starting first with Turner Glass Company in Terrc Haute. That company was taken over by Anchor Hocking Glass Co., including the big red head. Several years in Lancaster, Ohio, were followed, in 1943, by assign­ment as Sales Manager of their two west coast plants. In 1948 Jim returned (with his wife Mar>' Virginia and 8-year-old Mar>- Anne) to the mid­west as Midwestern Sales Manager for Thatcher Glass Mfg. Co. -At the first of this year Jim left the glass industr>* but stayed in the container field being now in cliarge of the Indianapolis tcrritor\­for the Wabash Fibre Box Co. He plans to be back for reunion and hopes to sec the classmates he ha-^ missed tlirough the years. Jim wants it to be a swell reunion and offers his help, both personal and financial. Both can be used, Jim. 
From the land of cotton Austin Hall of Memphis writes: **Ycs, I remember 1926 but when I take a look in the mirror, I think 1926 forgot mc. Fat. Forty and Grey Headed." Aus, where do you get that forty stuff? Surely you haven't gotten to the stage where you arc counting backwards on those birthda>'s! Or else, you were smarter than the rc^t of us and graduated at a more tender age. First of all, Aus says he expects to be back for the reunion. After graduation Aus returned to Klcmphis where he w*orkcd in \-arious architects' offices and during the depression days did a stint w*ith the 
U. S. Engineers on the expansion of the levee sys­tem. In 1945 he formed the firm of Hulsey and Hall which is one of the outstanding architectural firms in Memphis. Married to Elizabeth Forester in 1939 the Halls have two girls and a boy. .Au«i manages to get back to school for one game each fall but has not had much luck In bumping into classmates. Next June it will be different, Aus. 
The Post Office made no money on my card to Ray Keuer, having hauled thp card from Chicago to Phoenix and back to Detroit. For the past 17 years Ray has been with the Associated Press and is currently chief' of the Detroit bureau. Prior to that he was chief of the PhoenLx Bureau. Wliat would be the news value, Ray, of an AP dispatch that the Class of 1926 was planning on ha\ing a big reunion in June of 1951? Ray is married and has three daughters and one granddaughter. Our Grandpas Club is growing. In the course of his traveb Ray has seen Joe Na^'arre and Syd Bower. He says that in Phocnbc he ^vorked with Lcs Hegele after having lost sight of him for 18 years. 
John Kdly is a Philadelphia lawyer, with officer in the Liberty Trust BIdg. He was married in the Log Chapel in 1937 and the Kellys have a 12­year-old daughter and a son, 10. He sees Charley Dou^erty quite frequently. With the remark "If the Na\y docs not beckon again I hope to attend the !951 reunion" he both promises to get back to ND and brushes off his Na\y career. Hope he doesn't have to brush off his uniform. 
Larry Krieger writes from .Saint Joseph, Mich., that he occasionally sees Frank Dcitle, Art Scherer and some of the South Bend boys. He would like to see his old roommates, Dave Stanton and Joe Dawes at reunion time. Larry is married and has a daughter and two sons. He is Director of Public 
Relations for Auto Specialties Manufacturing Co. of St. Joe. 
The New York Central Railroad is fortunate in having had for the past 24 years the services of \Vard Leahy. On the other hand maybe ^Vard should have given tha£ time to them to pay for all the use he made of that annual pass when he was in scliool. Tlie NYC can figure to haul Ward from Cleveland to South Bend and return next June for he says he will be back for reunion. In the 24 years with the Central Ward has had 14 diH'crent jobs, in SLX difTerent states, in 10 different cities and is at present Superintendent in Cleveland. He says he likes the job and the city better than any previous ones. Ward married his childhood sweet­heart in 1929 and two daughters round out their family. Ward sees Joe Shea and Chuck Mooney in Cleveland. 
Too late for the last issue but in plenty of time for this issue is El Mahoncy*s letter from Indianap­olis, where he lives in the old homestead with his two sisters. El recalls our 15th reunion and plans to be back for the 25th. During the tail end of the roaring twenties EI lived in Detroit with several other NDers and their place was headquarters for all ND men who hit town. 
Then the depression and back to the Hoosicr capital (or is it "ol"). Having joined the Army Reserve Corps while in Detroit, Pearl Harbor found EI, as he says, one of the oldest 2nd Lts. in the Army. They bounced him all over the western states and at one time he commanded a colored truck company where he says he found himself giving orders "By de lef flank." All went well until a staff car tangled with some trees and EI got a broken back and a fractured skull. As a result in El's words **I am now a bald, slightly shrunken and bent one-eyed retired captain.'* But he still has all his humor. He'll get away from his job as ac­countant for Reilly Tar and Chemical Corp. to at­tend the reunion next June. 
"Several of John F. O'DonnelPs friends in ^fays­villc, Ky., lost money on him in 1943 when they bet he wouldn't pass the physical tests for Selective Ser\-ire in the late war. The Na\-y got him and the betting fraternity is excluding him from their thoughts on wagering for the next ^v'ar which seems just around the corner" is the way John starts his letter. Married and childless John is the night editor for the Daily Public Ledger in Maysville-Hc has been with the paper since 1934. The years previous he spent tr>*ing to find a place as satisfy­ing as Maysville. He complains that whenever he makes a trip anywhere he returns to find a copy of the Alumnus listing someone a stone's throw from %vhere he was. John, if your Secretary can ever get a few thoughts together and do a little lining up of preparations for our reunion one of the first things you can expect is a copy of the class roster which you can cany in your hip pocket on those trips away from Mays\-ille. 
Jerry Smith wTitcs from Denver that he spent 10 years in advertising work in Rochester, N. Y., and then went with Phoenbc Mutual Life Insurance Co. They bounced him around several cities until 1941 when they made him Manager of their Kansas City agenc>' where he stayed until February of this year when he went to Denver to reopen the Denver agcnc>-. Jcrr>- was another Log Chapeler, in 1934. His son, Danny, is 11, and Stephanie will be 5, rome Christmas. In the years and various places Jerry has been active In ND affairs, K. of C, Serra Club and many other Catholic activities. In all of his travels he has seldom seen any '26ers. Cumc back In June '51 and see them all, Jerr^'­
AII of tlic pa.st 24 years have been spent by Art Suder in keeping "Suder the Florist" as Toledo's leading florist. Being tlie third generation in this 80-year-old business there is no doubt but that Art Is doing a fine job. Art's daughter, Carol, enters Toledo U. this fall and his son. Bill enters high school. That leaves 2'/2-year-oId Susie at home to see that pop gets his slippers when he gets home at night. Art has gotten a first-hand report from John Hurley on what '25 did at their reunion and hurries to offer his help to beat those old men. Among other things he wants to arrange is a "session" with George Hartnett and Jerry McDer­mott neither of whom he has seen since third floor Sorin days. Art, with possibly one business session, our class dinner, and our class Mass I think that the rest of the time will be devoted to "sessions" like you suggest. 
With this new system of only one mail delivery a day It's not at all out of place that the U. S. Post Office Dcpt. should be last on this report. From Algona, Iowa, wc have a letter from the Post Master, our old friend. Wade Sullivan. After a stint of ncwspapering AVade became P.M. at Algona in 1935. He Is married and has two daughters, 10 and 
14. Wade doesn't see many classmates but does play golf every summer with Harold Klein of Des &foInes when they meet at Lake Okoboji on vacation. He is bringing his family to the Purdue game this fall. 
Portland Will Miss the New Provincial 
Portland alumni at the farewell dinner tendered Very Rev. Theodore F. Mehling, C^-C, Sept. 14 in Hotel Benson, Portland. Father Mehling left the presidency of Portland Univer­sity on becoming Provincial of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross. Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., former vice-president of Portland succeeded to the presidency. 
September-Ociober, 1950 
Wade also plans definitely to be on hand for the reunion. 
Among those your secretary saw this summer was Joe Badi on the e\'cning of the All-Star game. A card went out to Joe for a report on his activities but he is probably too) busy lining up things at St. Bonaventure where he took over from Ho^iic Hvntn, Joe, we'll give you a pass for the Fall and the creamed chicken and peas season but will expect to have some word from you for an early 1951 c:olumn. 
That about covers the reports received. There were a couple of offers of help with reunion plan­ning, both personal and financial. We can use both. We plan mailings, several of them and that will entail postage expense at the least. So, If you have any loose change to help defray the expenses shoot it along to our Treasurer, George Hartnett, 221 N. LaSallc St., Chicago. If you have any ideas send them to your secretary. We want everyone to help in making our reunion a memorable affair and that "wc" means all of us. 
REMEMBER ^26 — PREPARE FOR '51. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Rudd, a daughter. Mary Elizabeth, on July 29 in E\-aiisville, Ind. 
1927 
Bill Dooley, former managing editor of the­**Alumnus" and now University Placement Director just can't stay out of these columns. One way or another, he comes up each issue with something. This time it's news from a chance inter\*Iew with Bob Stephan, general sales manager for U. S. G)-psum, 300 W. Adams, Chicago. 
Bob reports that Joe O'DomieU is suffering again from a leg fracture and is laid up at his Chicago home (5609 N. Sheridan Rd., Chicago 40). Joe is the O'Donnell of O'Donnell's Food Products, "Pur­veyors to Chicago's Gold Coast." 
Another Doolcy-sent Item concerns Tommy Green, of Conroe, Texas. Tommy lately became die male forebcarer of number eight—named John Stephea Green. 
To Bill Dooley, thanks. 
Your class secrctar%-: Joseph M. Boland, Radia Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
1928 
I visited Denny Daly, my old roommate of Corby Hall days, in St. Paul. Denny has two boys, ages & and 8. He Is practicing law In St. Paul and teach­ing tax law at the University of Minnesota. I had a good lunch session with Tom Hart In Minne­apolis. Tom is Resident ^lanager for the Employers' Liability Assurance Corporation with offices In the Northwestern Bank Building In Minneapolis. Tom has one child. Neither Tom nor Denny show any bad effects from their years in service during the war. Both of them have put on considerable weight. Tom had just returned from the ftmeral of Joe Benda in Collegeville, Minnesota. He mentioned that John Wallace of Calumet City also attended Joe's funeral. I also saw Tom Mahon^ who is special agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company in St. Paul. Tom has two children. I talked to Bob Fi^erty who Is teaching history at St. Thomas College. He also taught a graduate coune in history at the University of Minnesota this year. As you know. Bob received his Ph.D. from Minne­sota several years ago. He has two children. I was-sorry to hear that Bob's father died recently. 
Although time did not permit my contacting alt the '28 men In the Twin Cities, I did manage to get a report on them. Tom Mahon mentioned that he meets Jcny Bigge and his wife at church. Jerry Is with Brown and Bigelow Company at 1286 Univer­sity Avenue in St. Paul. Bob Fogerty has an office near Ray Mock at St. Thomas College where Ray handles placement work. Ray has two children. Jim Hay%irard, who received his M.S. In 1928, is di­rector of nutritional research with Archer-Daniels-Xudland Company in KfInne:^>olis. Jim receK'ed his Ph.D. at University of Wisconsin. Tom Hart sees Jack Doyle regularly. Jack, who is with Juster Bros, in Minneapolis, has four children. His oldest boy is in high school at St. John's In Collegeville, ^Ilnne­sota. Tom mentioned that Butch DeVauIt is per­sonnel manner for the Munue Gear Company in Muncie, Indiana. 
BtU Kirwan and his wife visited us when he ^vas In Chic^o for the Furniture Show. Bill has his own furniture store in Iou*a City, Iowa. The Kir^^'an's have a son, 12 and a daughter, 17. Bill mentioned 
21 

A 25-Year Grin at Studebaker's 
Armando J. Porta, *25, comptroller of the Studcbakcr Corporatioii, getting a grin and a pin from H. S. Vance, chairman and president of the corporation, porta has spent 25 years with Studcbakcr, was comptroller of Studcbakcr Pacific Corp. in 1939 and entered his present position in 1947. Other Studebaker officials arc in background. 
that he sees Charley Cash of Anamosa, Iowa, wlicrc Charley is postmaster. 
John Fontana sent me a clipping from the Colum­bus, Ohio paper announcing the marriage of Joe Kinncary- Joe is first assistant in the office of the Attorney General of Ohio. His new address is 2378 Kensington Drive, Columbus, Ohio. Congratulations, Joe, and thanks to you, John, for sending in the news. This leaves only Jim Shocknessey on the eli­gible bachelor list of *28 men in Columbus. 
Frank (Duke) Duquette recently moved from White Plains to 70 Wcstway, Mt. Kisco, New York. Frank, who has been with General Electric since 1928, transferred to New York in 1937. Since then he has traveled in New York, New Jersey and Con­necticut as meter specialist selling through the G.E. local sales engineers all types of electrical measuring fquipment. Duke is married and has one son, 9 years of age who looks forward to going to Notre Dame. Duke sees £d Brougfael who is now in New York as rectifier specialist for General Electric Duke mentioned that he hopes to see Bud Topping in Rochester and Dick GFCcn in S)Tacusc on one of his business trips soon. Duke worked with Mac Brule on many jobs with Western Electric Company. He also sees Ghariic Duffc)' who is m^inagcr of trans­mission and distribution for the Long Island Light­ing Company, Mineola, New York. Duke was in­quiring about Tom Noon and Pat Canny. 
Dr. Bemie Growley is now located at 1147 South Minnesota, Wichita, Kansas where he is with the Medical Department of the Veterans Administration. Bemie spent three years as Lieutenant Commander in the Navy at Pearl Hazbor. After the war he re­sumed his dental practice in St. Louis for three years. He has been in Wichita since 1948. Bemie is married. He assured me that he would be present for our 25-year reunion in 1953. 
Rodolfo B. Garza Ama>'a wrote from Juarez Ote. 200, Saltillo, Coah, Mexico. Rudy is still farming part time and producing wax, which is being export­ed to the States. This year he is planting cotton in the Matamoros section of ^fexico, which is across from Brownvillc and the Rio Grande Valley. Rudy is married and has three children, tivo girls age 8 and 12 and a boy. ^ e 10. I was sorry to hear that his boy had polio. He, accordingly, has had to make trips to Warm Springs about everv* three montlis. 
On business trips to New York, Rudy has seen Frank Duquette and Frank Galardy, who is with the Automatic Telephone and Institute Company, at 62 West 47th Street, New York. He has been back to Notre Dame on three occasions and attended the last .-Vrmy game. Rudy mentioned that at a party the night before he wrote he met Bill Jasper, '27, who is now working with the International Harvester de Mexico, at Mexico City. 
Pete Gallagher writes from 934 Center Street, Freeland, PennsyK'ania, where he is on the faculty of the Frccland High School as head of the English Department. Pete married sixteen years ago and has two boys, one fifteen and one ten. He hopes to take his family back to Notre Dame for the 25th­ycar reunion in 1953 as his elder boy will enroll that fall as a freshman at Notre Dame. Edward Conlin, another classmate from Freeland went on to get his medical degree after learing Notre Dame and is now practicing in the vicinity of Chicago according to Pete who saw him two years ago. He also reports that another Freelander, Maurice Mc-Afcnanium, is in New York Ctty with the Walgreen Drug Conipany. Pete said he often thinks of the fellows he never reads about in this column such as Bob Ward and Jim CuUen. I wrote to Bob for news in November, 1949, and Jim, in June, 1950, but received no response. How about a Te> port from Bob and Jim as well as the many others who have not responded to my requests for news. Remember news is welcomed at any time irrespec­tive of deadlines. 
Frank M. Flanagan reports from ^finers Bank Building in Pittston, Penns>'lvania, where he has been practicing law since 1933. Frank planned to attend the class reunion in 1948 but his mother died just at that time and necessarily changed things. He saw the Na\'y and North Carolina games last year but did not see any of the classmates. Frank's concluding note was, "if I am around and the world is not a burning cauldron, I hope to be back for '53." Since almost everyone I hear from promises to be back for our 25-year reunion, I am sure it will be even better than the one in 1948. 
I heard from Thomas Shay Collins at 166 New Boston Road, Fall River, Massachusetts. Tom is still %v*ith the Sagamore Manufacturing Company in Fall River as overseer of spinning, spooling and 
slashing. 1 was pleased to hear that Tom expects 
to be married early next year. Don't forget to give 
us a report on your wedding. Jim Coogan, '27, who 
formerly had a cleaning business in Fall River, is 
now in Los Angeles. Tom sees Frank CNeil, '30, 
and Walter Goff who live near him. He met John 
Borfce, '29, in Boston recently. John, who was with 
the Glee Club, is in the advertising business in 
Boston. Tom attends the meetings of the Provi­
dence, Rhode Island Notre Dame Club as often as 
possible. Tom concluded that he hoped to hear from 
Joe Daley and Eddie Cunningham. I last wrote to 
Joe Daley for news in December, 1949, but had 
no response. I have tried several times without suc­
cess to get news from Eddie Cunningham. My last 
try was in February, 1949. Possibly some of you 
on the West Coast can help me on that project. 
How about surprising me with a letter, Joe and Ed? 
You will be pleased at the fine responses I re­ceived from our medics. Not a one of them con­tacted failed me in my requests for news this montli. Dr. Marcus Farrell reported from 512 West Main Street, Clarksburg, West Virginia, where he is prac­ticing pediatrics. Marcus mentioned that his two boys arc getting close to the time they will start for Notre Dame. Our roving reporter, Jos Morriisey, called Marcus one morning when Joe was en his way to the Na\y game last year. Marcus expects to attend the Nav\- game at Cleveland and hopes to see some of the '28 men there. I trust I will see you, Marcus, when you are in Chicago in October at the Academy of Pediatrics meeting. Marcus said he continues to have frequent fond memories of the 20-year reunion. Dr. John E. Franklin wrote from 56 East 76th Street, New York 21, N. Y., where he is practicing pediatrics. John is married and has three boys. He teaches at Cornell University Medi­cal School and Memorial Hospital. John mentioned that he sees BQI Cronin and Bill Kelly. My request for news reached Dr. Frank Hegarty at Port Chau­tauqua, New York, where he and his wife were on x-acation. Two of his girls were at camp there. The third girl was at home and the fourth girl (?) will be coming along sometime in the fall according to Frank's report. Frank mentioned that Dr. Dave Solomin is in obstetrics in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, and that Dr. Dick Wefas is Medical Director of Du­Pont in Rochester, New York. Frank is doing der­matology* in his home town, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Ed Finn wrote from Saleda, Colorado, under the letterhead ''Golden Rule Mercantile Company." Ed is a partner in the dr>' goods and clothing business there. He is married and has a girl nine years old and a boy five. Ed mentioned that he is looking forward to the 25th reunion and has every inten­tion at the present time to be there. We will be looking for you, Ed. 
Jack DoBahne of 5232 Westpack Lane, Clifton Heights, Pennsylvania, stopped in to see me on a trip through Chic^o recently. It was the first time I had seen Jack since we were graduate students tfigether at the University of Wisconsin in 1936. JacJc is resident inspector in Philadelphia for the OflBce of Reclamation, U. S. Department of In­terior. Jack taught at the West Allis, Wisconsin High School in the 1930's and was with the Allis-Chalmers Corporation in Minneapolis prior to going with the Interior Department. He is married. Jack is looking forward to attending our 25-year retmion in 1953. Although he was unable to make our 20­year reunion, he obtained a complete report on it from Turk Meinert. 
I had the pleasure of being the chairman of the session of the College Workshop on the Teaching of Catholic Economic and Social Principles held at No­tre Dame in August at which BtU Brown of the legal dqtartment of Allis-Chalmers Corporation spoke on "Problems of &fanagement." Bill did his usual good job on this subject. Father Mark Fitz* gcrald, C.S.C., also gave a very fine paper on "The Problem of Nationalization" which I intend to as­sign as required reading in the course in Govern­ment and Business which I will teach next semester at Loyola University. It was gfx>d to have present at the conference our professor of economics. Father &Gc&ad Mokaure, C.S.C., who was responsible for our interest in economics. Jolin Q. Adams, '26, also gaw an excellent talk on Employers A^ocia­tions at the conference. 
While at Notre Dame in August, I met Marty Ryaui and Gas Jenkitts from Buffalo on the campus. Gus was on a bunncss trip with the Dunn Weld­ing CfHnpany, Inc., manufacturer of automobile convoy traHers. Marty was on vaction and traveling with Gus. Marty is still single and is with the American Eiqnrss Company in Buffalo. Gus has four children. He expects that his son, who is a senior in high school this year, will be at Notre Dame a year from now. I also saw Dr. Andy Boyle, Administrative Head of the Department of Chem-istr>', who has two children. I stopped in to sec £d Quinn while on the crampus. Ed,' in addition to his student testing work, is associate professor of ed­ucation. It is always good to sec Bob Grcsser when I visit the West End State Bank in Mishawaka. Bob is head of the Loan Department there. He has a daughter 17 years of age. 
My neighbor, Ed Rafter, tells me that Bob Rigney has four children, the oldest of whom finished high school this year. Ed heard from Phi! O'Connor of RfKhcstcr who was visiting in New Orleans and from Bill Dowdall from Buffalo. 
I regret to report that Frank (Sp:ke) McAdams underwent an operation recently for the amputation of the lower portion of his right arm. The arm has been useless since three ner\"cs were severed during a Pacific island landing seven years ago.-Although Spike was not in our class, many of you w*ill remember him. Spike has made a tremendous reputation for himself in the legal and political fields here in Chicago. 
The name of Joe Bcnda has been added to the list of our deceased classmates. An account of his death was reported in the 1927 column in the last "Alumnus." Please remember Joe and the other deceased members of the class of 1928 in your prayers, especially during the month of November. I w*ish to extend to Joc^s widow and four children our most sincere sympathy. 
Frank E. Da\id of New Orleans is the first of our classmates to re-enter the armed scr\'iccs as far as I know. Frank has gone on active duty with an engineer battalion. 
Bill Jones tells me that Joe McNamara was in Washington in August on two weeks scr\'ice in the War Department in the Pentagon Building as a re­scr\'e ofHcer. As you know, Joe is with the Bridge­port Brass Co., Bridgeport, Conn. No doubt, there arc a number of other classmates who are now on active duty. Please keep me advised accordingly. 
I visited Father Gallagan who is in Merc>* Hos­pital in Chicago for observation by Ed McKeown's doctor. Howie Phalin was visiting Father while I was there. Howie and his wife were leaving on Sept. 13 for Rome. 
Dave Smith tells me that John Sciter and his wife visited him in Chicago recently. John is in the hardware business in Lexington, Missouri. Dave Smith is a partner in the architectural firm of McCarthy & Smith at 69 W. Delaware Place in Chicago. 
Your class secretary: Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams St., Oiicago 44, 111. 
1929 
The Class of 1929 congratulates two of its mem­bers who were recently elevated to high offices at the closing session of the Congregation of Holy Cross General Chapter meeting in Rome. 
Father Christopher J. OToole, C.S.C., for the past five years Vice-Provincial of the Indiana Prov­ince was elected Superior General for a term of six years. Father OToole, who b originally a native of Alpena, Mich., will make his headquarters in New-York. 
Father Theodore J. Mchling, C.S.C., who since 1946 has been President of the University of Port­land, was elected Provincial of the Indiana Prov­ince. Father Mehling, who came from Fremont, Ohio, will make his headquarters at Notre Dame. 
During the Reunion weekend in June a number of the *29ers were back on the campus, some as presi­dents of alumni city clubs and others to take part in the festivities. I talked briefly with Emmctt Mc­C^die (Consolidated Aircraft — San Diego); Joe Friel (Seagrams, New York); Harold Steinbacher (Circuit Judge—Battle Creek), Jack Elder (Sinclair Oil—Cleveland), Guy Haas (Army Signal Corps— Washington), Ekin Schettig (Hardware—Ebcnsburg, Pa.), Tom McDougal (Judge—Antigo. Wis.), Mickey McMahon (North American Insurance—New Or­leans), Dr. John Vaichulus (U. of Illinois), and Cap Grothwohl (Attorney—Niles). A number of South Bend delegates were on campus: Frauds Jones (Attorney), Jim Keating (Asst. U. S. Dist. Attorney), Jim Skelly (Studcbaker Exec.), George Bcamer (Attorney) Dick Haugh (U. S. Dcpt. of Labor), Father James Norton, CS.C. (Asst. Direc­tor of Studies). Dave Campbell (English), Larry Stauder (Elcc. Engineering), George DriscoII (Civil Engineering), Paul Bartholomew (Politics) and George O'Brien (drug stores). 
Mickey McMahon had his son, Tom, 18, up for his first visit and to have a talk with Father Lou Thornton. Son Tom looks like an excellent basket­ball prospect. Joe Friel carried greetings to all from Joe Lenihan (Fromm and Sichel—N. Y.). The two Judges Steinbadier and McDougal were enjoying 
Septentber-Ociober, 1950 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MR. TRAYNOR 

JOHN P. TRAYNOR, '25, has been ap­pointed vice president and manager of real estate-mortgages for The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York. 
The 50-year-old Tuckahoe, N. Y., resi­dent has been a second vice president of The Mutual Life since December, 1947. He joined the company in 1943 as man­ager of real estate. Two years later he was advanced to be assistant manager of the real estate mortgage department. Prior to joining the insurance company, he had been deputy superintendent of the New York State Insurance Depart­ment for seven years. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Mr. Traynor joined The New York Title and Mortgage Company and became assistant to the treasurer in 1929. Three years later he transferred to Nyamco Associates, Inc., a manage­ment and real estate subsidiary of New York Title and Mortgage, where he de­voted his entire time to real estate problems. 
He was appointed a special deputy superintendent of the State Insurance Department in 1936 in charge of the New York Title and Mortgage Com­pany and its subsidiaries, which the In­surance Department had taken over earlier. Shortly after this appointment, Mr. Traynor was advanced to be deputy superintendent unde r Superintendent Louis H. Pink. In 1938, when the Insur­ance Department merged 77 insurance and title and mortgage companies into a liquidating Bureau, Mr. Traynor was placed in charge of that Bureau. 
good health. Jack Elder was here as president of the Cleveland Club, McCabc as president of San Diego and McMahon, prseident of New- Cleans Club. Gay Haas was here to represent the Combined Military, be also brought greetings from Larry Moore, John Dodas, Dave Fields and John Hiafcel of Washington, D. C. 
Here are excerpts from letters that have recently been received—kiii Oonelan (owner of the Donelan Co., a manufacturers service company of Colorado Springs, writes about his family, activities and in­terest in the Colorado College Coaching School). Secy—Bill, Jr. recently took his Zoology under my direction and he is a "spitten image" of his pop. "After knocking on the doors of the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, I joined up with the American Red cross in late 1944 . . . got through the in%'asion of Okinawa by the grace of God and Father Briedenstine, CS.C , Chaplain of the 7th Infantry Division Artillery. Eleven months in occu­pation of Korea and then back stateside in August 1946. The family I had left in New York City, December 1944, son Bill, just* finishing hb sopho* more year at ND, daughter Marion, 16, a high 
. school senior next year and then on to St. Mary's across the road, and wife Mary Juanita had settled themselves in Colorado Springs, Colorado, one of the most delightful spots on God's lovely earth. In January 1947, I started this business of representing manufacturers of various products made in Colorado Springs and brought out-of-state items into the Rocky Mountain Region for distribution. Today three-fourth of my energies are spent in promot­ing Heller-Gro, The Complete Liquid Plant Food, produced in Colorado Springs and is without equal in the plant food-fertilizer field. 
^*As to interests, Don, I do quite a little N D Foundation work locally, mostly interest arousing. I am City Chairman for Colorado Springs, and have a Committee of fifteen, most of whom are ''syn­thetic alumni." Outside of Don Alexander, Jr., '29, Bob Ambcrir, *51, Dr. James Johmoa, *39, Owen McHngh, '28 and Frank Cnsack, '23, there arc no other Notre Dame men in this vicinity. Annually we hold a football trip raffle, proceeds from which go to the University Foundation. This year's trip will be to the Southern Cal game. 
''Last year I was appointed Campaign Director for the Colorado Springs Community Chest. A member of the Local Chamber of Cc»nmerce» I am chairman of the Winter SporU and Recreation Com­mittee. I am a member of the Kiwanis Club, Past President of the Downtown Quarterback Club and a member of the Cowhand-CowbcUe Association, a booster organization of the Annual Colorado Springs Rodeo which is held in August. 
*'In clf>sing, may I say that I have had a hand in the Colorado College Coaching School, in that Frank Leahy, Ed Kransc and myself dreamed iq> the idea at Lincoln, Nebraska, in October of '48 when the team played there. I sold the College on the idea and last year marked the first school. June 5th saw the opening of the second Clinic at 
C.C. with Leahy, Joe McArdle and Bcmie Crim­mins for football instruction, along with Coach Forest Anderson, Bradley University for basketball. For my interest in Colorado College, I hold an honorary membership in the Colorado College Asso­ciation. Regards to all '29ers through your column." • 
Father Otey \\^Bchester (St. Luke's Church, Lakewood, Ohio) writes: ''I have been tnmsferred to St. Luke's Church, 1212 Bunts Road, Lakewood, Ohio, and am just getting around to my correspon­dence, det e Schneider's mother died a couple of months ago and was buried from the church to which I have been transferred. Remember her at Notre Dame, Don. I have heard from Jndgc Sctotty McDoagal a couple of times and he seems to be en­joying himself on the august bench of Wisconsin. 
"Lsvrjr Mason also has written me but owes me a letter right now. Just in passing, one of the rea­sons you haven't heard from me is that I was in Rome for the Holy Year. I also visited France, Spain, Portugal and ended up with my relatives in Ireland. It was a grand trip and I hope some day to repeat this same trip." 
Gcorse Sdunidt (President of N D Club of Fox River Valley—Elgin, 111.) writes: **For the past sev­eral years and at the present time, I am engaged in buying and sell real estate and divide my time be­tween my home in Elgin and si summer hcune at Lake Geneva, Wis. My wife and I have not been blessed with a family. My hobbies include refinishiiv antique furinture, fishing, golf, photogr^hy and I have a very great interest in my dog, 'Clipper,* a German Boxer which I have raised from a pup. 
Here is some news of the other boys: Dr. Flufip Hemmins has his American Bfiard in Gynecology and Obstetrics and is now practicing with the Walker Clinic in Eugene, Oregon. I am sure he would be 
25 

Jiappy lo hear from any Notre Dame man in that vicinity. Phil has three cliildrcn at tlic present time— Ann, Mike and Larry. Phil is one fine and capable man. Speaking of fine, capable men naturally brings to mind Drs. Jim '28 and Paul '29 Tobin. These two brothers operate a ver>' successful clinic in Elgin and arc highly regarded in the community. At the present time, Jim is attending a medical convention in San Francisco. Roland Schlager is an attorney for an insurance company whose legal department is located in Chicago. He is the father of a daugh­ter. For several months, Rol, who still makes his home in Elgin, has been doing a major remodeling job on his home and from tfic results to date it is conccii-ablc tiiat he may one day become a vcr>* famous architect and contractor. Edward Phelun lias proven himself to be quite a handy guy to have around. Ed, who is a safety engineer employed by the Continental Insurance Co. of Chicago, has dis­played his talents and energy in remodeling iiis iiome. A professional craftsmen could not have done better. Sign me up for the 2Jth Reunion in June '54.*' 
Franos Jones (Attorney—^Joncs, Obencliain and Butler—Odd Fellows Bldg., South Bend) sends a . fine letter about his family and activities. Francis is one of the most active of '29crs in alumni work. 
"Your request of July 3rd makes me feel as though I were writing my own obituary, however, I will do what I can to be of assistance. I was married in August of 1939 to Miss Mary Ann Frash of South Bend, Indiana. We have tlirec children, Kathic, aged 9, Pat, aged 8, Danny, aged 4, and wc reside at 16U East Washington Street, South Bt-nd. 
".\t the present time I am practicing law as a 

member of the firm of Jones, Obeiiciiain & Butler 
u-ith offices at 800 Odd Fellows Building, South 
Bend. I am a director of the American Trust Com­
pany, the LaSalle Hotel, Inc., and of the LaSallc 
Hotel Realty Corporation, as well as being the 
Secretary of the last two organizations. I am a 
member of the Board of Directors of the Indiana 
Club, and ser\'ed as. secretary of that organtzal>on 
for two years. 
"I am a member of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association and scr\-cd as its first president during the year 1949. I helped organize and was the first president of the South Bend Cam­era Club, and I helped organize and was on the Board of Directors of the South Bend Art Associa­tion, Inc. I was president of the Notre Dame Club «f St. Joseph Valley in 1935, having served as sec­retary of the organization during 1934. 
"I served as president of the South Bend Knife and Fork Club, a dinner organization of 600 men during the years 1947-48. On several occasions I served a three year term on the Board of Directors of the Catholic Forum. 
"At the present time I am secretary and on the Board of Directors of DcGroff Laboratories, Inc., an organization engaged in the manufacture and sale of photographic equipment, and I am on the Ad­visory Board of St. Joseph's Hospital in Soutli Brnd. The above contains about all the information I can give you in the form of an obituary, and I trust it is not conducive to an early demise." 
Dr. John SimoDCs (Eye, Ear, Nose & Throat Specialist—LaCrossc, Wis.) sends along this note. "ND news is scarce in this locality. .. . ^Vc at­tended the Tulane game last fall witli Ceil and Joe Mulhall and are planning to possibly see the Mich. State game this year. Plan on me for the Silver Jubilee Reunion in *54." Secy.—Dr. John received his "SIJD. from Iowa in 1934, interned at St. Francis Hospital, LaCrosse, and is active in A.M.A., La-Crosse Medical Society, ^Visconsin OpthoImoIog>­Society, Phi Beta Pi, Serra Club, War Vets, Elks and K. of C. Fishing is a Wisconsin hobby. John and Grace have two childit:n, Paul, 8, and Bruce about two years. 
Dr. Anthony Denman (Industrial Surgeon, Helper. Utah) writes: "Am planning to see the Southern Cal game this year as I did a year ago . . . there are no other *29ers in this district. .. . I'd like to hear from Fred Weiss, my old roommate, and also Pete BurUiart and Vincc Doyle. John Gali\-a&, 
•37, (1017 Keam Building, Salt Lake City) is our club president and Foundation Chairman. . . . We plan to vaction in Mexico and do some fishing. Keep up those plans for t}ic Silver Jubilee. I'll be there." . Secy.—Dr. Anthony received his Ibf.D. from Creigh­ton in 1931, interned at St. Catherine's Hospital and St. Joseph's Hospital in Omaha, docs research on arthritis and in active in A.&f.A., Utah ^fedical So­cnety, Amer. Acad. Gen. Pract. ND Club, Kiwanis and Coimtry Club. He is a director of Amer. Acad, of Gen. Practice and Chief of Staff at City Hospital. Price, Utah. Anthony and Katherine have t%vo children, Dorothy, 18, and Robert, 9 years. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MR.FLUGE 

PETER J. FLUGE, '39, has been appoint­ed advertising manager of the General Products Division of Owens-Corning Fiberglass Corporation, Ben S. Wright, Fiberglass vice president and general sales manager, has announced. 
Mr. Fluge will have offices in the Wayne Building, Toledo, where he will be associated with E. W. "Pat" Smith, director of merchandising. 
Since joining Owens-Corning Fiber­glas Corporation in 1939, Mr. Fluge has served as manager of the Cincinnati branch sales office, as acting manager of the Fiberglass Textile Products Division in New York, and recently as manager of the Toledo branch sales office. 
Mr. Fluge is a native of Toledo. 

Bernard (Pat) O'Leary (Dist. Traffic Supt. of the Ohio Bell Telephone directs the activities of 13 men and 600 women workers to keep those long distance calls going through) wxites an interesting letter about his work and family. "I went to work in July, 1930, for the Ohio Bell Telephone as a student engineer and have had \'arious responsibilities since, leading to Dist. Traffic Supt. In October, 1930, Lcona Brown and I were married in St. Maiy's Church, Lancaster, Ohio. Leona was my high school sweetheart. Our family consists of John J., 19, a freshman E.E. at ND; James P., 15, at St. Tliomas High, and Mary, a fourth grader. I am active in N-D. Club, Holy Name, P.T.A. and the St. Tliomas Aquinas Society where wc are mak­ing a study of the Mass and Laymen's Theology. Lcona and I hope to be back for the N. Carolina game and will look you up in the Biology Building. Give my best wishes to the *29crs and to Larry Stauder, Elmo Moyer and Fred W^ss. Sign me up for our 25th Silver Jubilee Reunion in June '54 as a ZancsWlle, Ohio representative." 
Lou Buckley (Class Sec>-.—1928 and Regional Di­rector of the Federal Security Agency—Chicago) sends this news item across the lake: "I saw Fnmfc-Iln Doan and his wife at the Chicago Club Ban­quet on Universal N-D. night. Frank is Public Re­lations director of Roach, Williams and Cleary, Advertising Agency, Chicago. Frank and Mary have three children, Maureen, 11, Mary Louise, 13, and Mary Ann, 14 years, and live at 314 17th Street, Wlmette, 111." 
^Vil^am T. Doyle (1086 Ocean Avenue, Brooklyn. 
N. Y.—State of N. Y.—^Dept. of Audit and Control and Examiner of Municipal Affairs) writes about his work since leaving ND: "I haven't been back to the campus since graduation day. It was very disappoint­ing for me to miss the 20th reunion last year but I am making plans for our 25th Silver Jubilee. In December, 1941, I married Evelyn Reilty, a Brook­lyn girl, who was my *one and only.* .. . Our little girl, Marianne, is six. 
*'I was in the sen-ice (Army) from June '42 until April '46, served as a Captain, for quite some time as fiscal officer working out of the Office, Chief of Ordnance in Washington. While in the ser\'ice I was certified for appointment lo the position I now holii—Examiner of Afunicipal Affairs in the Dept. of Audit, N. V. State. I examine the fiscal afTairs in various municipalities, cities, villages and towns 
_ in nine counties. Extend my best wishes to the '^ers and I'll see you all in June '54." 
Joe Dautremoat (Gen. Supt.— Springfield (Ohio) Construction Co.) sends a note about his new home: "We arc happily located in our new home in a new sub-division at 2132 Sunnyland BK-^. Judy and I have a family of three, Judy, 12, Kathleen, 4, and Wil­liam, 2 years. , . . My brother. Father Jim, is visiting us and you probably recall he is stationed in Portland. . . . Judy and I will be up for a game this fall so have a cold one in the ice box for mc. Sign me up for the Silver Jubilee reunion." 
The Class of 1929 extends to Dolores and Paul H(rfaban congratulations on the arrival of 9 lb. Mark Paul, May 24. The Pop says he'll be a tackle. The Holahans reside at 14709 Montrose, Cleveland. Paul is with the Ohio Bell Telephone as rate engineer. 
Philip J. TcHupkins is manager of the Hart Stores Inc., of Evansville, Ind., and resides at No. 3 Boeke Road. The Tompkins (Phil and Eloise) have nine children including two sets of twins, Leonnora, .17, Terry, 16, Gertrude, 14, Larry and Jimmy, 12 (twins), Kathleen, 10, Elotse, 7, and Nadine and Christine, 3 (twins). The class extends congratula­tions to Phil and Eloise. Maxinc and Si Sidenfaden of Ontario, Calif., please note. 
Herbert Schimbcrg (Schimberg Dry Cleaning) lives at 2397 Blake Blvd., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The Schimbcrgs (Herhert and Marie) have four children. Martha Ann, 11, Michael, 9, Mary, 7, and Laura, 3 years, and are active in the Cedar Rapids Country Club, Rotar>- and Elks. 
I**an Wolf is Gen. Sales Manager for tlie Great 
A. & P. Tea Co. in Youngstown, Ohio. Irene and Ivan live at 4420 Euclid Blvd, and have a fine family of four children, Ivan, Jr., 14, Julianne, 13, Peter, 11, and Paul, 9 years. 
Arnold Williams *vas in England during 1949 on a Guggenheim Fellowship for study in Fourteenth Century English Thought and Literature. During the year 1948 Arnold was Associate Professor of English at Mich. Sute. He is the author of "Mod-­em Exposition" and also "The Common Exposi­tor." Arnold and Sallie have two children, Emery, 10, and Wade, 7 years, and live at 161 Gunson St., East Lansing, &fich. 
John Cushmao of South Bend is doing a fine busi­ness for Frigidaire Sales Corp. in this district. John and Elizabeth have a beautiful daughter, Betty, about 10. 
Stephen Schneider (Arizona State Manager of Fed­eral Security Administration) sent an invitation to the dedication of their new building in Tucson. Steve had a fine program of speakers lined up, including Governor Dan Garvcy. 
Joe RadJgan (Attorney—Abatiell, Radigan and Delliveneri) is U. S. Commissioner for the district of Vermont; Alderman for the city of Rutland, vice-president of the Coimty Bar Association and director of several Vermont concerns. Joe and Florence (Sa­bourin) are planning to summer in Wisconsin and attend the Navy game this fall. 
Fanl Bertsdi, three term president of the Akron ND Club, was xvcently named the club's "Man of the Year." 
Tom Marker (Asst. Counsel for Firestone) can be reached at 42 Ehndale Avenue, Akron. The Mar-keys (Tom and Jane) have four children, Nancy, 4, Joan, 6, and Judith, 8. The Markeys are up for congrattilations on the arrvial of Patricia Marie, Fd>. 6. Tom is active in alumni work and the Por­t^ e Country Club. 
Prof. George Driscoll (Dept. of Civil Engineer­ing, ND) who is a head timer for many of the major track meets, sends this note across campus: "Eari G. Kecxer is chief accountant and purchasing agent for the Wrenn Paper Company at Middletown. CMiio. The Kecicrs live at 414 Gleen Lane and have one daughter. Earl reports his major hobby— promotion ol horse shows. Clair J. Blat^all lives at North Baltimore, Ohio, and is Professor of Mathe­matics and Mechanics at the Uni\-ersity of Toledo. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

200 acre dairy farm stocked with 90 head of pure­
bred Hokteins for milking and sale of calves. "Operating these two projects has taken most of 
Bernie Crimmins Meets Chattanooga Club 
Backfield coach Bemie Crinimins, center, at a luncheon of the Chattanooga club. On his left is Father ^Villlam Mahoney, club chaplain and club president Tom Owen is at his right. Standing are John Terrell, vice-president and Roger Egan, secretary. 
James L. Fitzpatrick recently moved from Kirkwood From 1931 to 1933 I worked for the Tax Commission 
to St. Louis (7532 Warner Avenue) Mo., where Jim of Ohio and also taught at St. John's University in 
has a drive-in business. The Fitzpatricks have one Toledo. In 1935 I married Geraldine and moved to 
daughter who is a recent graduate o( Alarqucttc Detroit with the Bureau of Internal Revenue as an 
University. Internal Revenue Agent. In 1936 I was assigned to 
Clare Jans (7024 N. Ridge Avenue, Chicago) sends the Pontiac, Michicgan, Division of the Bureau; in 
this note via Hyp. Heupel—^"The enclosed check January, 1944, opened offices with Thomas J. Whit­
covers the contribution- of Joe (S.) Sullivan, 9111 field as tax consultants. 
South Damcn, Chicago. He is in very good health; There are no children and hobbies, if any, are in fact he claims that he still plays ball now and confined to fishing, hunting and golf. Clubs are then. (A slight bread basket belies the fact.) He Rotary, Elks, Pine Lake Coimtry Club, Wabe-Ma­has a lovely home in Beverly Hills and four lovely Quaw Hunting and Fishing Club in Quebec and children. He is definitely a successful Notre Dame Woodland Springs Trout Fishing Club In nortlicm man.** 
Michigan.** Lou Nicier (Attorney—Niczer and Niezer— Fort 
Don Baldwin (Attorney—Acton, Acton, Baldwrin Wayne) writes: and Bookwalter—Danville, Illinois) writes: "I am engaged in the general practice of law in 
"I have been engaged in the practice of law here Fort Wayne. My best customer is Tokhcim Oil Tank in Danville since leaving Notre Dame, have enjoyed and Pump Company and I am vice-chairman of the its practice and my fair share of success. I am nn-' Board and general counsel for that company. I married and do not have chick or child. You can spend about half my time at Tokheim aAd' the other see that my existence has been more or less of a half downtown in general practice. I am married to humdrum one out of ^vhich no 'copy* could be Rosemary Callaban Niezer and we have" three boys squeezed. It might be of some interest around No­and three girls—Mary Frances, U, Louise, 9, John, tre Dame to leam that two Notre Dame men have 7, Charles, 6, Elizabeth, 3, and James, 1. I like just recently been victorious in long and bitter pri­to play golf and do some sailing and fishing on Lake mary fights for nomination as candidates for public Wawasee." office in this county and locality. 
Dr. Edward J. Delahanty, Jr., (Ncuropsychiatrist— "Frank J (Bus) Meyer, ND Law, *38, was nomi­Majestic Bldg.—Denver) sends this information about nated as the Republican candidate for County family and Interests: 
Judge in this county, which is a position of some importance in this locality, after a knock-down, "After leaving ND I graduated from U. of Colo­drag-out battle with two strong opponents. His rado, interned at Colorado General Hospital and­.,brother,, Johnnie Meyer, who attended Notre Dame am practicing in Denver. My major research interest Law School was nominated as one of the Republican is alcoholism, am a member of Nu Sigma Nu, AMA, canilidates for Representative in the Illinois State .Amer. Psychiatric, and Colorado Neuropsychiatric Assembly from this district.*' 
societies. At state meetings, I see Freeman Irfmswell, '31, occasionally and you will recall that I roomed 
Karl Kaschewski, recent president of the New at ND with Harry Lawrence (1312 Broadway, Den­
Orieans Club, is now in New York, at 433 E. 5Ist ver). . .: 
St., New York 22, Apt. 1-C. 
"We have t^vo children, Edward,^ III,' Ifrrapd George Monroe (Monroe Chevrolet Sales and CaroI>-n, 15, and my extra-curricul^ hobbies are 
Dairy Farmer—Freeport, Illinois) writes an interest­golf, photography and aviation. If at.all possible and 
ing letter on his activities and alumni: God willing I will be at our 25th Silver' Jubilee re­
"In 1940 I married Dorothy Barnes of Bushnell, union." III., and we have t^vo lovely adopted children, Mary Frank Sloan (Sloan & Whitfield—Tax Consultants Theresc, 2Va years old, and John Martin, 15 months —Pontiac, Mich.) writes: old. Since 1934 I have owned and operated a 
"Following graduation I did some reporting for 
ChevToIet agency, first in Bushnell, HI., and for the Ohio News in Toledo, Columbus, and Cleveland. 
the past eleven years here. In addition T have a 
September-October, 1950 
my time except for the ZYx years spent in the Army as a major in the Ordnance Dept., two years of which were with the 1st Army from Normandy to the Elbe. For outside activities I am a member of the Lions Club, Elks, Freeport Country Gli^, 4th degree K.C., past vice-president of the Holy Name Society oi St. Thomas Aquinas Parish, director of the Notre Dame Club of Rock River Valley, vice-president of the Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Rockford, president of the Stephenson County Auto Dealers Association, member of the Freeport Board 
. of Education, cmnmissioner of the Freeport Mosquito Abatement District. 
"These various activities draw heavily on my time . . . but I find sufficient hours to have be­come a gardener and thoroughly enjoy the raising of 600 hybrid tea roses. I don*t get to see many *29er$ as there are few near Freeport. When I took my fiirst Army assignment at Jackson, Bliss., I rented a house and who should be my landlord but Jack Cauzaro. 
"Jack is one of the South's leading architects. We have seen him several times since along with his lovely wife Helene and their children. 
"Hairy J, Pewter, *29, wife and baby droi^>cd in on us at Christmastime last year. Harry was build­ing a dam in the Ozarks so that the fishers and bathers would have a vacation spot. At Notre Dame I lived off-campus at 325 North St. Lotus Blvd. with Harry and Joe E. Morrissey of Portland, Ore., Joe and Lotus Whalen of Macomb, lU., and Mflfoa 
J. W^ner, '28, of Dearborn, Mich. Am sure sorry to read the sad news of Milton's death. 
'*I hear quite often from Joe Monissey who In-es at Coos Bay, Oregon and still works in Salem in the office <^ the State Division of Unemployment. Have lost track of Loon Whalen but see Joe Whakn in Des Moines occasionally. I see Vince Carney of Rochelle, III., quite often. Vince recently returned from a Holy Year trip to Rome. 
"Do you have news of some of the *29crs I*ve lost track of? What happened to my old roommate Gcon^ Jewett of Rcnwell, New Mexico, and Joe Hiss of Los Angeles, Bemie Bird of lake Charles, La., Don McCoO, Jolm and Charles Hoover, Wm. (Pinkie) Casddy, Frank Metrailcr, Ted Labcdz and Jack Keans? 
"I often see, c\-ery Sunday in fact, Tom Lawleu, *29, who is with the W. T. Rawleigh Co. here in town and doing very well. I occasionally run into Father Jim Mnkatrc, '29, who has a fine parish near here at Hanover, III. I do get to ND .for the Layman's Retreat each August but Father Foran keeps us so busy we don't see much of the campus. Twenty-one years has brought as much change in the campus as in us '29ers. I'm eagerly looking for­ward- to the 25 year reunion which I see you are planning." 
Dr. Wm. Ncff (Supt. of Schools—Mandan, N. Dakota) sends this note: 
"Tell the *29 boys that I Avill be glad to serve as hunting giude for a limited number m case any of the fellows desire to invade North Dakota during the fatmting season this fall for some of the finest grouse and pheasant shooting to be foimd in the country." 
Reynolds Seiti (Eiiitor and Director of the Inter­national Travel Eiqiosition for the Chicago "Daily News" and Director of Northwestern Univ. School of Journalism—Chcago Division) writes an interest­ing letter on his work, his family and some '29ers: 
"For the last seven years I have been associated with the Chicago "Daily News." For half of the tune I was director of advertising promotion and market research. In the more recent years I have served as travel editor and director of one of the News* qieoal event pmnotions—the an^iial Inter­national Travel Exposition. Just recently I have been ^ipointed Director of the Chicago Dinsion of North­western University's School of Journalism. (I will continue to retain my connection with the Duty News.) 
*^ y association vdih Northwestern University is not entirely new. For a number of years I have taught in the evening divisions of the School of Journalism and the University college. My courses have been ''Law for the Journalist," and "Labor Law." Even under the new arrangement I will continue to handle "Labor Law" in the Universtty college. In one form or another I have worked in ­the field of education ever since graduation. 
"While I was getting a couple of graduate de* grees, including a law degree, I taught in a h ^ schocj in Evanston and served as a university dd»ate coach. later I tau^t law on a full time basis for three years at the Creigfaton Unn*ersity Law School, Omaha. 
25 
"I scr\*cd in various administrative pobts in the Omaha Public School s>'stcm. Part of such work was as assistant to the superintendent of public schools. When my boss was appointed as superintendent of public sctiools in St. Louis, lie took me with him to that city. 
*'Thc ciiancc to become senior attorney ior the National Labor Relations Board in Washington, 
D. C , took me out of St. Louis. After experience with tlie Board, I j'oined the legal staff of Mont­gomcrv' Ward and Company in Chicago as labor relations attorney. Not long thereafter 1 was invited to join the Chicago Daily News. In 1939 I mar­ried a wonderful Omalia girl, a graduate of Du­chesne College. Wc have four beautiful daughters— Eileen, Kathleen, Diannc and Louise- The oldest is eight years and the youngest sLx months. 
"I see two members of the class of '29 frequently. Frank Siudzinski is real estate editor of the Chicago Daily News. Frank Smola has his office a half block from mine. He is educational director for the Na­tional Dair\* Council. From time to time I sec John Dorgan, Allan Moore and Ray Dra>-malski. 
Joe Dorgan is in the advertising department of the Daily News. During my last business trip to New-York Citj', I had some fine visits with Joe Hartnett, '29. He is a trust officer with the Ir\'ing Trust Com­pany. 
"I also saw Joe Lemhan, '29 (Christian Bros. Wines). I was sorry that business required me to be in Arizona last year during our class reunion. I do hope that I will be able to make the next get-together in '54." 
A number of post cards about \'acations, fishing, etc. have arrived from Bob McVety (Remington Rand, New York), Norb BerghofT (Wayne Pump, HofT Brau—Fort Wayne), John Doi^an (Hubbard, Hubbard & Dorgan—Chicago), Mnce Carney (Car­ney and Longcnecker—RocIicUe, III.), Fred Wagner (Insurance—Tiffin, Ohio), Moritz Dieter (Contsruc­tion Engineer—Tulsa), Bill Cronin (Frigidairc Sales Corp.—Oakland), Claude Homing (Horning Lumber Co.—Akron), Bill Lougfaran (Dcpt. ot Education-Baltimore), Russell McGrath (Real Estate and Mort­gage Banking—Providence), Murray Glasgow (Glas­gow* Brcwerj-—^Norfolk), Dr. Corrin Hodgson (Mayo Bros Clinic), Norm Hartzer (Frederick O'Brien Co. —Los Angeles), Dr. Ed Post (Vet. Hosp. Camp Cus­ter), Dr. Charles Baum (Dentist and Civic Leader— Hamilton, Ohio) and Bill Krcig (Buschmann, Krcig, DeVault and Ale.\ander—Indianapolis). 
In the next issue this column will carry some inter­esting letters and news notes from— Jc^n F. P. Burke (Dept. of Education—Clinton, Mass.). John B. Sulliv-an (Director of Education—Execu­tive Dept, State of New York). Stephen J. Schneider (Manager—Federal Security Agcnc>'—Tucson, Arizona). Baal Rauch (Prof, of Historv—Barnard College— Nov York). Jack Elder (Sales Exec, and Manager—Sinclair Oil—Cleveland). John Law (Coach—^Mt. St. Mary's College Em­mitsburg, Maryland). Dr. Ed Post (Vet. Admin. Hosp.—Fort Custer, 
Michigan). Thomas C. Murphy (Judge of Probate—Detroit). Dr. Art Morlc>- (Internal Medicine—Batavia, III.). Joe Smietanka (Attorney—Smictanka, Nowak and 
Garrigan—Chicago). Dr. Ed Lyons (Prosthetic Denyistrt—Philadelphia). Joe Radigan (Attorney—Abaticll, Radigan and 
Dcllivemeri—Rutland, Vt.). Jim Digan (Digan Sales Corp.—Castings—Logans­port). Dr. Frank Kane (Surger>-—Binghampion. New-
York). Dr. Art Fleming (Pediatrist—Chicago). Your secretary and Devcre Plunkett (1930 Class 

Scc'y*) drove to Detroit this summer to see the Tigers vs. the Red Sox. We stopped in Quinc\-, Mich., and saw Bill Crotty (prcs. Automotive Pro­ducts Corp.) toured his two plants and had an enjoyable lunch with Bill at the Arlington Hotel in Coldwater. Bill reports that he sees several '29crs who are doing a fine piece of work' in their various fields of endeavor, John T. Higgins (attorney at law —Detroit), Paul Isi-olt (Acme Steel Co.-—Kalama­zoo), Eddie Gage (Oldsmobile agency—Ro>*al Oak), Eddie McMahon (Sfechanical Trucks—Syracuse, N. Y), Bob Ward (attorney at law—Marshall), Louis Sinclair (news editor—^Battle Creek Enquirer and News), Harold Steinbacfaer (Judge—Battle Creek) and Ed Baum (Insurance—Battle Creek). 
Your class secretary: Donald J. Plunkett, Biology Department, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1930 
Here we go—one issue closer to our 25th reunion. Notes and cards arc still coming in, commenting on the last reunion of our class and requesting seats up front for the next big gathering in 1935. 
Under the heading of old business the record must be set right on who was here for the 20th reunion. Through faulty checking of rosters here, your cor­respondent missed a number of fellows who had registered at the Law Building or the Alumni Office, and not at our headquarters in Morrissey Hall. Here arc the names omitted from the mimeographed list sent all class members: 
Ed Blatt, residing at 83G Greytown Road, Cleve­land Heights, proud father of three daughters (hope to see you at the Na\->- game, Ed!); Charlie Esola, 3410 Michigan A^^v., East Chicago, Indiana (got some news from Charley spotted below); Joe FricI, Rockwell Center. N. Y. (the fellow w-riting the column above says you are a '29er, but an>-way you were in distinguished company last June). 
And then we missed a large part of the South Bend contingent. Father Bill Scanlon, Prof. Walter Langford, Bob Holmes, Fran Mcssick, and Daix McDill; Ed Mulick, vice-president and general man­ager of Kathryn Cosmetics, Inc., whose business ad­dress is 540 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago; Dick Nee­son, who lives at 806 S. 8th, Springfield, III.; Tom Purcell, 141 W'. Jackson Blvd., Chicago; Jim Ranier, Fowler, Ind.; and John Voss, Elkhom, Wis. 
Father Jim Rizcr stnt along a fine letter from Danville, Va.. and enclosed a circular showing the Catholic Motor Chapel which he and Father Chester 
P. Michael were using throughout the diocese of Richmond. Here's Father Jim*s letter: 
"Many thanks for your good wishes and enjoyable news. I even enjoyed the gentle bite you put on me for some interesting news items. I only wish I could rsepond with a load of them, but it has not been my good fortune to have had much close contact with many of the *bo\*s.* I used to see a great many of them when I was working in and out of New York, but those wonderful times became few-er and fewer during four years in the Army and the same number in the Seminary*. The latter were an improvement on the former inasmuch as we had summer vacations, which I used mostly for travel­ing. 
"I could fill a volume if I began concentrating on the ones I haven't seen. Even that ole faithful Har­ley McDct-itt stopped sending me reports two or three years ago. 

"One great thrill I had shortly after my ordina­tion (May 18, 1950) happened during a few hours visit to New York. Tim Toomey graciously arranged for me to say Mass at Our Lady of Victory' Church, and, unbcknou-ns to mc, contacted many of our ND friends. Imagine the kick I got out of seeing Johimy Bums, Eddie Bourkc, Tim O'Rourkc, Joe Brophy, Ed Arthur, Ed Fallon, Warren Fogel, Henry Frcy, Cy Kellehcr, Larry Cronin, Joe and Jim Friel, Ed EllsHorth, Joe Linehan; also Rita Shea of Man­chester (Tom's wife) and Honey Friel (Jim's wife): to say nothing of my good friends from the Charlie Flanagan Association, the headquarters of which is at Bill Tynan's Restaurant, 179 William St., where many enjoyable hours arc spent In good fun. 
"I recently had a wonderful letter from Bus Red-gate who is improving rapidly, thank God! And a note of surprise came from John Carleton Sulli\-an, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., who is to be married August 26 to Claire Pelt in South Orange, N. J. Doc Tom Sheen used to say '*if you chase *cm long enough, one of them is going to catch you." Incidentally, I managed to spend a few days with Tom and his wife. Hollcy (they have three attractive young daughters) at their summer home in Easthampton the past four summers. 
"I recently receiied a very kind letter from Dan O'Neil (AT&T, NYC), Jack Heilker of Cincinnati, and Jack Folks of Long Island, all prospering very-well. John Law is doing a splendid job of teaching and coaching at Mt. St. Mar>'"s College. 
"I'm writing this letter at Danville, Va. We have the motor chapel on the outskirts of the city and have been having large crowds nightly. Tomorrow wc move to a small place outside of Suffolk. The enclosed circular will tell you something about the work. 
**My very best wishes to Father Broughal and all the Plunketts." 
Tlianks, Father Rizcr, for your nice letter. I know cver>'onc in the class will remember you in the difficult work you are now* in. 
Chicago Is Still a Notre Dame Town 
Telling the Notre Dame story. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, CS.C., University president, ad­dressing a group of 600 Chicago business leaders at a luncheon. John Showell, '25, at right, 
was chairman of the affair, held Sept. 6 at the Shoreland HoteL 
And here's the spot to correct some more bad re­porting on our recent reunion. I failed to mention one of the most important prize winners, the class winner with the largest family. I received a ver>­welcome reminder on that from Mrs. Jim Leahy, Tiffin. Ohio. To wit: 
"While reading the last issue of the "Alumnus/" I was vcr>- surprised and a bit disappointed to ste you forgot to list all the prize winners at the lamous "3(1 reunion. Which one? James C. Leahy won the prize for the largest lamily. Remember? Of course ( was interested two ways—first, we're quite proud of our family of seven, three boys, Pat. Don, Tim, and four girls, Susan, Colleen, Shannon and Theresa, ail imder twelve; and second, the prize was Scotch: 1 drink it, Jim doesn't. How about it?" Sorr>' 1 misled that news item, Mrs. Jim. What a journalist! I had the best human interest item of the reunion, and failed to get it into the stor\'. 
Charlie Esola, attorney in East Chicago, Jnd,, arrived a bit late for our reunion, but moved around rapidly in the Iiours he spent with us. Thanks for the letter, Charhe. which 1 am quoting here: 
"In reply to your recent letter with regard to news about some ol otir class members, here goes: 
"Ben Schwartz is now the present prosecutor for Lake County, Indiana. Ben is married, has no children. Roger Callahan is a probate commissioner in Lake superior court. The Caflahans have four children. Thad Havran is water-board attorney for East Chicago, married, one child. As for myself. I am married, Iiave two children, and am in the gen­eral practice of law. 1 scr\"ed in the armed forces for about two years and was in the Pacific Theatre. 1 was in attendance at the beginning of the war trials in Yokohama, Japan. At present I am psst commander of the .-Xmerjcan Legion Post 266 in East Chicago. 
"In the brief tune that I was present at the re­union it was remarkable to see the clianges in class­mates after a span of 20 years. As previously stated I will be in attendance at tlic 25 year reunion, of course if this Korean affair does not take all of us. 
"Occasionally I see Raymond Young who li%-cs in Hammond, Ind." 
Commander George 0'AfalIc>', USX, ^vrotc a mighty interesting letter about his doings, travels, XD contacts, etc. But let George tell the story: 
"I received your letter today and I will make an effort to comply with your request for news. My intentions were to send you a note on my return to California.. However the trouble in Korea materially increased my work load which left me with little or no time to spare. San Diego, as you know, is one of the chief Navy ports on the Pacific coast and the activities of the Xavy in this area have increased considerably since thr outbreak of hostilities in Korea. 
'"I enjoyed ver>' much your report on the re­union in the last edition of the '^-Mumnus.'' On tlie whole your report was veiy true and accurate. I do, however, desire to correct an impression you might have given in your column to the cfTect that I felt I was robbed of the prize lor the member of the class of 1930 traveling the longest distance for the reunion. I am sure that there was no robbery* in­volved in your choice because of the lack of intent. 
*"I do feel that as a professor of history you should refresh your memor>' concerning California on the location of its cities. The San Diego area is well known historically as the birth place of California. Dan Cannon would have no reason to know that LaMesa, California, is a greater distance from South Bend than Los Angeles, so I can excuse him. 
'•'If I can get you interested in California histor>'. especially the San Diego area, my loss of the afore­mentioned prize will not have been in vain. I did enjoy our reunion and even considering that mis­take which was made, the committee should be com­plimented for their work in making it such a suc­cess. This includes Dan Cannon. For the benefit of Joe Kelly» this is not an attempt to "polish the apple.*' 
"In your recent letter you invited me to tell of my activities since graduation, so here goes. I work­ed for awhile in Dixon and Chicago immediately after graduation and then returned to school. I attended Chicago Kent College of Law and after graduation from that institution I opened a law-office in Dixon, 111., my home town. I practiced law until April, 1942. when I received a commission in the Navy. 
".\ftcr two months training at San Francisco and San Diego, I was assigned to dut>- aboard a merchant ship as an armed guard officer in charge of a U. S. Navy gun crew. This vessel carried ammunition and 
September-October, 1950 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
AIR. HARRINGTON 

Promotion to tlie position of assistant ciiief engineer in the ESSO (Standard Oil) Engineering Department came re­cently to PAUL J. HARRINGTON-, '26. 
Mr. Harrington has been associated with Esso since 1929 when he joined their technical service division. During World.War H he served the government as a member of the Petroleum Industry War Council's technical advisory com­mittee. His work consisted of research and development in explosives, syn­thetic rubber and high-octane gasoline. 
In 1945 Mr. Harrington was appointed staflf engineer in charge of postwar ex­pansion at the Baton Rouge refinery of Esso Standard Oil. His present position is in a department that does process and mechanical eng^ineering for projects of affiliated and subsidiary companies of Standard Oil. 
Married in 1929 to Margaret Knue of Indianapolis, Mr. Harrington is living at present on Skytop Drive, Mountainside, New Jersey. 
There are si.x young Harringtons: Paul J., beginning his sophomore year at the University in Commerce; James, beginning his freshman year in Chemi­cal Engineering; John C, a sophomore at St. Benedict's Prep, Newark; Timo­thy, 8; Mary, 7; and Margaret, 5. 
Mr. Harrington plans on being at the 1926 class Silver Anniversary Reunion next June and will play in the Alumni Golf Tournament if he gets a suitable handicap. He claims he cannot break 100. 
supplies from San Francisco to Brisbane, Australia via Wellington, New Zealand. In Australia this ves­sel was converted into a troop ship and for sec months carried American and Australian troops from .Australia to New Guinea. This ship was finally ordered to.South America to pick up cargo for the U. S. The vessel visited ports in Chile, Peru, and Ecuador, and then returned via the Panama Canal to New York.- White in New York I met To n Kcc­gan who was also an armed guard oflSccr in the Nax-y­
"I returned to San Francisco where I was assigned duty aboard another merchant ship as armed guard commander. While aboard this vessel I again traveled to Australia and from Australia to Bristol, England. While in Bristol I met a dassmatc from XD, Jiin(?) Fit^cratd. "Fitz" was the coach of the famous Lyons Hall football team of 1928 and after leaving XD coached football at St. Bede's Col­lege and St. Thomas' College. 
"Fiu was one of the officials at a football game between two Army teams at Bristol when 1 met him, and during the last war was athletic director for the American Red Cross in London. Fitz remembered the gam<: between Fort Wayne and Lyons Hall at Fort Wayne on Thanksgiving Day, 1928. It «as at tliis game that Judge Tom *Lct us be gentlemen'^ McDougal introduced to the Lyons Hall team for the first time a special gin-flavored water. It w*as so popular that Lyons Hall broke all local records for the number of rest periods taken during a single game. I understand 'His Honor' is still in the Naval Reserve, so I may have the opportunity to welcome him to San Dicvo. 
''While in England I was transferred to London­derry, Northern Ireland, where I w*as stationed for seven months. During this tour of duty I met Pete Hines, a lieutenant in the U. S. Marine Corps. Pete, a nephew of Professor Hines (history), was at ND in 1941, prior to his entry into the Marine Corps. From Londonderry I went to London in January, 1944 where I was assigned duty in the legal office of the Commander. U. S. Naval Forces in Europe. My first legal assignment was Judge-Advocate of the General Court Martial Board of the command. These duties took me to all sections of England, Scotland. Wales, and France after it was liberated. During one of my visits to Scotland^ I met Dr. Joe Conway, who was attached to the U. S. Naval Base in Gdu­rock, Scotland. Joe was in our class for two or three years and then went on to dental school at Har\'ard. 

''He did not recognize me when we first met, but when I mentioned the names of Cluck Driscoll, Frank and Dutch Holland, and Snnbber Murphy his recollection was refreshed. I also met Johnny Lujack at the U. S. Naval Receiving Station, Plymouth, England. Johnny at that time was an ensign station­ed at Plymouth. There was another ND man at Plymouth, a namesake of mine. Ensign O'Malley, who had been captured by the Germans and later liberated from a German prisoner-of-war camp. 
"In London I ran into Franklin O'Mara, '30, a former athletic manager at ND. Franklin had traded his bearskin coat for an officer's uniform in the U. 
S. .Army. I had occasion to contact Bill Cronin, '28, in London. Bill was in England with the Hon. Frank C. ^S'alker.who was one of the U. S. dele­gates to the United Nations. 
"I remained on duty in London and in September, 1945, became staff legal oSicer for the Commander> in-Chief, U. S. Naval Forces, Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean. Because this was the top command of the Navy in Europe, my duties enabled me to travel in France, Germany, Italy, Spain and most of the countries bordering the Mediterranean. I managed to spend a week in Eire and vbited the birthplace of my grandfather in County Mayo. 
"During this visit, throufk the influence of a priest I met in Cork, I w^as able to attend the All* Ireland Hurling Match in Dublin. This match is comparable to our World Scries. Hurling is one of the national games of Eire. It is a very fast and skillful game. 
"In 1947 I transferred to the regular Navy as a legal specialist. Captain Frank Bon, USX, ND, '27, is one of the highest ranking officers of this group. Captain Bon is presently a key assistant to the Judge Advocate General of the Na\->-. Before I left Lon­don in August, 1948, I spent 3 weeks leave in Nor­way, Deimiark and Sweden. These countries are very beautiful and their peoples very interesting. I did have some difiBctdty finding a Catholic Churcdi in Stockholm. On my return to the U. S. in 1948. I married an English girl whom I had met in London. I have a step-son, James, age twelve. 
"He has become fully Americanized and has al­ready expressed a desire to attend ND. I made many friends during my tour of duty in England. I was present in London during some of the minor ^ r raids, the buzz bomb and rocket attacks, and I witnessed the suffering and hardships which these people tmderwent. I have no other but the highest praise for their courage and fortitude. I live now 
27 

with my lamily in La Mesa whicli is about ton miles from San Diego. I am presently Distnct Legal Assistance officer of the Eleventh Naval district. My office is located in Room 248, Hq. BIdg., Uth Na\'nl Dtst., San Diego. 
**I had the pleasure of visiting with Jim Xfurphy, '38, who IS practicing law in Tucson. Jim is a lieu­tenant in the Naval Reserve. He was in San Diego on two weeks training duty in the District Legal Office. I frequently talk ^viih Major Fcnton Mce, USMC, who is stationed at the U. S. Na\-al .Amphi­bious Base, Coronado, Calif. Major Mcc graduated from ND law school just prior to World ^Var IL 
"The night before the ND^USC game of 1948 I met in the Biltmcrc Hotel, Los Angeles. Fred Peak, '30, and wife. Chuck Rohr, *30, and Bart ^fcCue, who had the news stand concession at Xotrc Dame and who now lives in Laguna Beacli, Calif. 
"Since my return to California, I have received cards from Gil Prendergast and Hugh "Sad Eyes" Gallagher. Gil was in Atlantic City and Hugh was on a holiday at the seaside in New Jersey, ^Vhilc cn­route to California from the reunion I saw Harr\-Busscfacr at a distance in Cody, Montana. .As all the male citizens of the town wear ten gallon Stet­sons, Harrj-'s attire was not enough to positively identify him. When the person I thought was Harr\­slowly crauJed into a nciv Studcbakcr wiili- Nevada license plates, I was sure it was Harr\-. 
"'Dcvcre, you have requested the above informa­tion, so any complaints should be addressed to you. If any ND men, especially from tlie dass of 1930 arc in the San Diego area on government business or personal business or pleasure, I would be happy to meet them and perliaps be of some assistance. Say hello to my fellow townsmen. Herb Jones and Bob Cahill. (Ed. note to Joe Kelly: this is polishing the apple. So. Cal- tickets, you know.) My best wishes to Oiariie Callahan. I hope to see him in Los Angeles on or about December 2. Tell Char­lie if he gets to San Diego I will give him an AIl­Nai-y welcome even if he is a member of the Air Force Reser\'e." 
Here is a news item from Clinton, Mass. Patsy Hastings was married to Mary E. Freel, July 24. Following a wedding trip to Bermuda tlie Hastings are residing at 32 Dewey St. in Clinton. I believe Pat is still in the garage and hotel business. 
A letter from John "Bus** Redgate, gives us some news out of the East. Writing from Gaylord Farm, Wallingford, Conn., he says: 
"Many thanks for your letter of Aug. 27. Yes, 1 did receive the reunion picture from Tim Tt>omey, and asked him for your address to thank you. It looked like a good tmie. 
"I have heard from quite a few from our class since I've been laid up. Bob Brannon, '30, ^vho was my roommate in Walsh is now County Attorney at Dcnison, Iowa. He is married to the former Mar>* Swords of St. Mary's. They have five children, a girl and four boys. He has me beat witli the girl. 
*Tom Murphy is a frequent \-isitor. He is per­sonnel director for the Bridgeport Moulded Prod­ucts. Has two boys and two girls. Nick Lanese, '34, gets up every week. He is noiv beading a $2,500,000 housing program at Greenwich, Conn. 
"The Hon. James L. McGovem, K.S.G., honorarx­president of the ND Southwest Conn. Club and father of the late Roger McGovera, '32, visits on his trips throughout the state giving speeches for the Associated Press of which he is the president. Father Eugene A. Moriarity, who taught at ND a few years back is a short distance from here as pastor in Meriden. 
"Believe me, Dcvere, when I say ever>'one has been grand to mc since my illness. I have received letters from such ND men as Johnny Law, the Cannons, Jade and Dan, Frank Doan, editor of the "Dome," Frank 0*Brien of Afotorola, Bob Brennan of Fittsfield, Jadk Elder, "Moon** KfuIIins, Frank Kcllr> '28, of Lee, Mass. (old time ballplayer). And of course good old Tim Toomey, who has been ever so faithful with his letters, clippings and cur­rent events of the big town, Manhattan. 
'*The local ND Club in Bridgeport, headed by Frank McGcc, '34, and Joe McNamara, '30, .form­erly of Indianapolis, sent me a magnificent gift some time ago. My wife's cousin, attome>' Dan Brennan, *36, gets up occasionally with my cousin Russ Red-gate, *36. Russ is working on Mr. McGovem's news­paper as a writer and doing very well. There arc many others that we probably have failed to men­tion, but not intentionally. Of course, I have been hearing quite a bit from Father Jim Murray, C.S.C., and Fatker Ray Tottcn. 
"Hope you can use some of this, Dcvere. and let mc know when your next issue is due. I may have more news, now that I have so much time on my hands." 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
AIR. REYNOLDS 

The appointment of C. L. REYNOLDS, '38, as Control Manager for Union Bag and Paper Corporation has been an­nounced by Leonard J. Doyle, Vice Pres­ident. Mr. Reynolds succeeds Mr. W. A. West who is resigning from the com­pany. 
Mr. Reynolds joined the Union Bag organization in 1940. He most recently sen'ed as Assistant to the Director of Multiwall Bag Sales. 
During the war Mr. Reynolds held the rank of Lieutenant Junior Grade in the United States Navy. 
He was bom in Newark, New Jersey, and is a graduate of the Harvard School of Business Administration in 1940. 
Walt Langford, '30, XD varsity tennis coacli, was the tournament cliairman of the Western Junior and Boys Tennis Tourney held at Notre Dame in July. No doubt Walt saw some nifty boys that he would like to have on his squad in a few years. 
Francis **Bill'' Fink, managing editor of "Our Sunday Visitor," was elected president of tlic Catho­lie Press Association at its annual meeting this sum­mer. Many of you recall that Bill and his wife received the 1948 award of the National Catholic Family Life Conference, 
John T. Rocap, '30, Indianapolis attorney, recently completed his term as president of tlie Board of Directors of the Gibault School for boj-s in Terre Haute. This school is operated by the Brothers of Holy Cross and is sponsored by the Indiana Knights of Columbus for the rehabilitation of juvenile de­linquent boys from 10 to 16 years of age. 
Clarence Kozak stopped by for a short chat dur­ing summer school. Kozie had two prospective stu­dents with him, and from the size of them I knou­they are not coming here only to study history. 
Danny Sulli\-an, '30, wrote a card from Baltimore, regretting his failure to make the 1930 reunion after making a reservation. He promises to be at the ring­side for the 1955 go, 
Tim Toomc>* writes in from New Vork City %vith a lot of dope on ND felIow*5 down east: 
"I am strictly a Red Sox fan so 1*11 pay little attention to your remarks about the Tigers. O'Ncil has his team rolling now and the Bostons should be tough to beat. 
"I'll jot down a few items about our classmates from time to time and send them on to you. Here \\c go. Howard **Hoolcy" Smith, brother-in-law of the Columbus Cannons, has been coaching baseball. football and basketball at Mt. St. Michael's here in NYC for the past decade, and he is generally regard­ed as the most competent all around prep school coach in Greater New York, Afany of hi; star pupils ha\*c gone on to greater fame in collegiate ranks and sc%'eral have made their letters at ND. 
"Tom Cumiingliam is recovering from a serious illness and he was advised by his doctors to remain away from the Reunion to insure a speedy return to good health. Tom makes his home in the City. Warren Fogd is taking his duties of raising a Hue family and practicing law seriously, as he seldom appears at the K. Y. Club meetings. 
**DoQ Sullivan, a partner in the famed Sullivan combination (Don and Dan), still resides in North­hampton, Mass., where tiic Sullivans are liighly suc­cessful building contractors. Don's oldest son is a member of the class of 1953 at ND. Bill Walsh, my old roomie in Corby Sub, is with the Navy depart­ment in Washington in a civilian capacity. Bill had a notable record in the Navy during the last war. Patsy Hastings, the pride of Clinton, Mass., oper­ates a hotel and restaurant in that city and is really living like a country squire. 
"Joe Palmero was still in Vicksburg, Miss., at last reports and I believe, still a bachelor. By tbc way I heard the list of bachelors was to be reduced by two. Rumor had it that Oonic Dono^'an and Joe Retdy were about to take the fatal step. That will leave the field to about 3 more besides myself. 
"The 'work pressure meter* is rising, so I'll cut this short and will write later with other info I can gather.** 
Bemie Conroy (United Engineering and Foundr>* Co. of Pittsburgh) who did so much of the prepara­tory work for the reunion dropped a line the other day. He wrote: 
"I had a nice letter from Tommy Cunningham and he wrote that he is feeling much better and has obtained a job as sales manager for Cooney Brothers at Tarrytown, N. V. Tom is very anxious to get back to work and plans to move from Long Island to Tarrytown. He is quite happy about his family which now consists of wife, Jane, and two small daughters. He wrote that his brother, £d, has been called back into the Navy. He is a Lt. Commander and at pres­ent is teaching radar at Norfolk. 
"I regret very much that Bo RicJiards was unable to be on hand for our reunion last June. Just a few-days before I left for South Bend I had a ver>* interesting letter from him and he said he hoped to make the reunion. However, he was worried that his duties as Claims O0iccr and Legal Advisor for the Dcpt. of Agriculture in Kansas City might keep him too busy. His family now consists of wife, Alice, and two boys; they live at 7231 Walnut St., Kansas Citv, Mo. ^ 
"I will try to do better the next time and hope to see a lot of fellows during the football season." 
Time to cool off this typewriter. To all the fellows who contributed nen's this time, thanks. I hope to see many '30 fellows at the home games and at th« Navy game in Cleveland. By the way where do tlic *30 men usually convene in Cleveland after the 
From Jerry Parker: 
"In fl^g to Chicago last month with Frank Leahy last month we agreed that I'd established some sort of record last season by traveling 23,000 miles in 1949 to see Notre Dame play. Can this be tf^ped?" 
The class secretary in\'ites comparisons and in fairness warns that Jerry is now display advertising manager for American Airlines, 
And here's some free advertising for Bill Reiscrt in Louisville. He and Ruth are the parents of a girl child, Ruth Ann, who weighed in June 24 at 8 lbs. 2 oz. Time, 5:25 p. m. To quote Bill: '*How about that!" 
Voor dass sccreury: De\-ere Plunkett, Social ScacBoe BMg., Notre C^me, Ind. 
20-YEAR REUNION 

1931 
Jane 8, 9, 10, 1951 

From the mailbag: Leahy-Wolfson Associates, Inc., in Suite 2092, 100 Park Avenue, New York Cit>*, announce the opening of general insurance broker­age offices, with Frank Leahy, of the class of '31 as vice-president. J. Norhert Gdson, of the class of '26 is assistant secretary-treasurer. The firm has branches in Jacksonnlle, Milwaukee and Birming­ham. 
Jacfc Rieddl, a '31 architecture graduate, died in Paris, HI,, after an illness of several months. Friends praying for Jack might like to know that he was converted to Catholicism in August, 1940. His wife and a four-year-old daughter, Nancy, sur\*ive. 
-Vote a change of address for Roland A. Chiara, Hairdresser, Roland's Maisun de Bcaute, 1218 St. Charles Avenue, New Orleans 13, La. 
Your clan secretary: Walter F. FhtUpp, 4 Pick­wick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
1932 
M Culver, the Old Rip, cmiics through with his latest report from the reunion, and it is as follows: 
"These years start to roll and in spite of several caustic cracks at the last reunion these attacks come only about once a year and it gives such char­acters as Bus Rcdgate, who arc waiting out rc­co\^ry and unable to get back to ND once in a while, a good laugh. It might even give them a renewed interest in old ND. 
"The reunion was taken over by the thirsty Thirties and their twenty year sessions. Jack Cannjti was on duty day and night, and really put on a roller coaster party. Many '32ers were put in the same hall but the person ^vJio did not come with a good supply of reser\*e sleep was a dead duck. 
"For the Badinitcs, Rev. John Dever, the former rector who spent many years up at Watertown, Wis., spent some time in Corby Hall this sprinir. When he answered my inquiry* at Iiis door as to the number of Father Tom Brennan's room, he said, *I couldn't tell you, AI. I*m a stranger here myself.* The years have been kind to him, and that twinkle is still in his eye. He used to put the same Srhammy* on mc when I would ask for a weekend pass to visit my aunt at Sister Lake, noting that the fishing season had just opened in Michigan and that I would need a non-resident fishing license whether I used it or not. 
*'Dean McCarthy was doing double duty in front of the Dining Halls after the banquet, wishing his former charges well and had a little time for a pep talk with each and every one of us. The College of Commerce has gone way ahead of the field under his able leadership and may it continue to do so. 
'^Father John Ryan, who has Iiad serious trouble with his throat in recent months, was in good voice and we spent a pleasant evening together. I finally folded up at the iforrissey Smoker but before I left it was a pleasure to see **Toughy" and Father Mike ^fu[cai^e fanning the breeze with "Wayback^vhen­ncrs'* with as much gusto as if they had Just sent the bo>'s on their way with the coveted sheepskin. 
**.\rt Rcyniers, the germ-free genius, held open house on the LOBUND Lab steps and had quite a following. Father Galligan ivas there and his days at Sorin Hall were brought back to light. Few people know of the fine job he did years ago at St. Thomas College during the depression. 
'"The Monogram Luncheon was a three hour ses­sion, and if the tables did not have to be set up for the banquet that evening, time would not have been called until sundown. Bill Sheehan was elected president, and I predict that the hooo that wa<t started rolling a few years ago by Fred Kfiller and Joe Boland will be given a hearty clout with a tire iron by the new prexy. 
"The pre-game football lunches have been opened to the public ai\d even if you do not want to rpolay a few of the old eames with the bearded **pros*' of your class, the **A11 you can eat for $1.25" ought to catph the inner man in a weak moment." 
Thanks. Al. for your efforts: we'll expect you to keep us informed on the football team, and the high­lights of the season. 
Recent changes of addresses include: Dr. John "Red" Jackson to 89 Ridge Lane, Levitown. N. Y.; Hugh Ball to 1519 W. Clifton Blvd., Lake%vood. Ohio: Ray Boyce to 541 Linden St., W. Hempstead. 
N. y. : Bill Burghart to 9456 Byron Ave.. Surfside. Fla.: Verne Hubcr to 244 Painter St., Greensburg. Pa.: Jce Kenny to 728 Waldo Blvd.. ^fanitowoc. Wis.; Glenn "Red" McDonough to 1807 W. Camn­bcll Ave., Phoenix. Ariz.; Don McManns to 142 Garden St., Forestville. Conn.; Stanley Obeleniu to 1661 Crescent Place. Washineton. D. C : Bill Otto to MU "B" St., Lincoln. Neb,: Jim Paris to 834»/3 
S. Harris St., South Bend. 
Joe Prtn'fz to 315 E. 68th St.. New York 21. 
N. Y.: Louw Rohlof to 805 Lihcrtv Trail. Michiean Citv. Tnd.; Amedeo Sferra to 271 W. 11th St.. New-York Citv: J. Drrn Sulli^'an to 1505 We<tbrook Drive. Aot, C. New Orleans 22. La.: Bob Tinlev to Box 1597. Denver City. Tex.: Louis Brrnnan to 37 Hamil­ton Av»^., Ossining. N. Y.; Bill Conaton to 408 South Ave.. Waukeean. 111.; Sylvester Haas to 1913 13tii St., Galena Park. Tex.; Charles Schmied to 253 S. Ludington St,^ Coltanhus, Wis. 
September-October, 1950 
EMPLOYMENT 
OPPORTUNITIES 
The Placement Bureau currently has many calls for experienced engineers and designers of all kinds. At least three years expe­rience is indicated in most cases. Salaries are substantial. 
One of the country's largest cor­porations is seeking experienced auditors, accountants and an out­standing financial analyst. Salaries up to ?15,000. 
Those interested in and qualified for such openings should conununi­cate at once with William B, Doo­ley, Placement Director. It is ad­visable to submit with the first letter an outline of qualifications. 

From JERRY CONWAY: Jack Naftzger, *32, is living at 5518 LIndley Ave., Tarzana, Calif. His wife just presented him with their fourth child, but first daughter, about a month ago. Jack represents a chemical firm and he calls on the aircraft factories in the L. A. area and is going very well. "Nasty" hailed from Sioux City, Iowa. This was the first time Vd seen my old roommate in 17 years. Joe Sinkule, '32, is head of the Sinkule Motor Sales at Milan, Michigan—a Ford sales and service agency. Joe, wife and three children are living at 384 Orchard Hills Drive, Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
I looked up from my moming^ pap^r in '!>£ dining room of the Hotel Mayo in Tulsa while driving out here and who was at the next table but **Bud" Dyniewicz. Hadn't seen him since graduation in '32. Bud has a very fine position with the Deep Rock Oil Co. Bud said that Ed Malchione is living out here, practicing law, but I haven't even looked up his address in the phone book yet. 
Wicn I was here In June I called on the conven­tion dcpt. of the L.A. Chamber of Commerce, believ­ing that some of those men might have a lead for mc. The chap I talked to was Bob Kelley. It wasn't until later that I learned that he was a Notre Dame man. class of '34. So when I was downtown the other day I stopped in to say hello. He has a lovely \\\{e, two very fine boys and a very cute little girl. I invited them to be on our radio show, so they came out the other day and were starred on the program. 
Then Kcllev told mc that he had visited with Ben Sal\-aty, '32. who is back here working for Ndl Hurley's comnany. Understand Benny intended mov­ing back to Chicago, but decided to stay in Cali­fornia after all. Benny and family are at 508 N. Vega Ave., Alhambra. Calif. 
Lcs Raddatz, '33, has been most helpful to me. as Owens* protiram is broadcast over NBC and Les is in charge of nress for NBC out here—as most every­one knows. Christy Walsh, Jr., is In Les* depart­ment, as your readers know from a most recent is­sue. Christy is doing an excellent Idii-
Intend to have lunch with Tom Shells Monday. Wc^s manacrtng the Modemaires. Evelyn Knight. Clark Dennis and others. 
Gene Calhoun is still as (genial as ever and doing a fine }oh of running the Local Loan oiSce. As yet I haven't had to put the touch on him. 
From Joe Petritz: *'Tliis is a desk-clearing proiect, so forgive my nromptness. Just leaving for training camp in Ripon. Wis., having just chaneed apartments, so I'm spin-nine. Doesn't look like I'll hit South Bend this time, but hope to get bv there some time this fall. When you're all nice and busy." (Joe IS referring, of course, to the training camp nf the New York Yanks of the National Football Conference. He's their public relations expert. Ed.) 
J. Raymond Fox has been appointed general man­ager of BoKb Brewing Co., Hou^too, Micfa. He was fonnerly Chicago tales manager, secretary aad director of Peter Fox Brewing Co., Chicago, reng>­ing last January. 
Frank Boriia is now on the sales staff of Whit­comb and Keller, Inc., Sooth Bend rcaltovs. Frank studied muuc several years before entermg the sales field and was in the electrical appliance and retail mail order business before switcUng to real estate. His South Bend address is 420 N. Frances St. 
BIKTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Peter J. TroBo, a son, Victor Eugene, August 5, in Jackson, Mississif^L We^ t six pouinds, five ounces. To Mr. and Mrs. Joka A. Kicner (Cleveland, Ohio) a daughter, Blary Elaine, Jiue 24. 
Voor dxm secretary: James K. Collins, 17 Triaa ^ Ave., Dayton 9, OUo. 
1933 
Dear 33's: 
We've got big news this time, gents—(me of our 
class Jokn CongWan, is the faUier of triplets. An 
attorney with the Chioigo Title &'Trust Co., John 
rushes home each night to fondly count—and help 
feed and change, we trust—Ellen Catheruie, B&ry 
Margaret, and David John, all bom on Jane 14, 
1950. Congratulations to the Coughlans from the 
class of 1933! (And remember them in your prayers. 
We received the letter informing us of this great event from John's brother, TOM Con^Ian, of the class of 1^1. Many, many thanks, Tom, aad we wish other NDs were as good about taking typewriter in hand to forward ^ta l Statistics to this apple stand. We are tfcinking of ooadocting a sanrey of every­one front our bcfcwrcd bclpasatc to o«r eamtcmar to see if we can leai« jnst wky it is tkat tke gnys we graduated witk rttmae to drop as as wamA as a postcard. The address is easy—Kosaiy Coll^^ Hirer Forest, III.—aad tke aaaae, wkatevcr dse yoa may %vish to say afcont it, is rrrtahjy aot matplirated. Joe McCabe . . . aiae strokes off tke pea, aiae tapt on tke type keys—or leave tke Jo off if yoa're rnsked. So aead as tke w«»d, mra wk^l yot^n doing, bow many duldrca yoa kavc, NDi yoa'vc seen—aaytkiag yon caa tkink off wUdh m^ t be intcicstias to yoar old friends. After all, Fai not in a sitnatsoa where I m a into too many Notre Daaw mea .. . aad tkose I do sec are asmdly Ike same oaes Fve meatsoacd kere many tiaMs kcfofe. So if you want to read a little news ia A n oolaaui— scsd ta a little aewt! That's oae way of cnttiag dowa o« my duUter. 
Sedentary as I am, I have heard a few thii^ about a few people. Joka Bodley is leaving Oak Park for Midland, Texas. His wife, Rita, is retiring chairman of the Rosary College Alumnae Fund Coat­mittee, and says they expect to be there about the middle of September. So, if we have any ND rcpre* sentation there, say hello to the Buckleys. 
Bin Lyadi, Jr., is out here c%*ery day. Reason? Re's building the new Rosary College Aoditorimn and Fine Arts Building, which is currently represent­ed by a yawning pit outside this office window. Bill sxys he sees DtilEe Wahen occasJoaaDy, as weU as a number of others whose names escaped the mind. 
While driving in Oak Park last week saw Dan Haaley. Dan looks fine, but we had not time to exchange information—^motorists behind me were threatening to drive right up the back of the Mc­Cabe jeep. Dan promised to drop by the office soon —maybe I'll have a head start on next issue's col­umn if he does. 
Saw where G-orge "Mink" Mefiakovick was coach­ing at Utah State, and, according to the report, had infused new spirit into the team. They'll either hxve new spirit or need plasma when Mink gets to work 
on them. 
That about sums up the roster as far as the undersigned goes. Wsb I had more dope to give you. But as I say, the cutting down of postal service only means that there's one delivery a day instead of two on which the postman brings me—nothing. Heartbreaking? Don't sob—write! 
The big news of the year and the century is that the Pope is going to announce aschurdi dogma the Assumption of the Blessed Vugio Mary. 
That's an event which should be particularly fraught with meaning for Notre Dame men. I hmnbly suggest that we all pitch m and do sooie extra ^iritnal devotitnis and exerdses in prepara­ticHi for the announcement on November 1—^AH Sunt's Day. Why? Because, of course, our Abna Mater b espmallr dnficated to Her; and because, also, to all appearances and hr c\-ery indkation Sbe 
29 
is the last best hope of keeping tlie world from 
disintegrating. Lots of our fellow NDs arc already 
making extra efforts to follow the exhortations given 
at Fatima: "pray and do penance.*' 
A non-alumnus friend told mc last night that Jim 
Cronin and his neighbors on Chicago's Soutli Side 
hold block Rosary sessions e\-er>* night. I haven't 
called Jim to see whether or not it's true: if not, it 
would be an idea, Jim. A great many guys arc al­
lergic to public demonstration of this kind. Tlicrc's 
no need to "gang up" in prayer if you don't like to: 
but say the Rosarj- yourself, cvcrv* day, in that case. 
And if you already say one round of five mysteries, 
add another, or say the works cvcr>* day. 
It's only 10 or 15 minutes more a day—and who is to say that ^vur extra 15 minutes of prayer might not save the world? Save the world—I mean save your wife and your children, and all your loved ones and friends. If that isn't specific enough, just take 10 seconds to think what the>* would look like if the Big Red Atom exploded in the next block. Ten seconds of that imager^' should be all you need . . . and for that matter, all you can stand. 
Say an extra prayer tonight . .. . and make it tlic 
Rosarv*! 
Part of the chain reaction that followed Dr. Eddie 
Anderson's return to Holy Cross sent Jim Harris 
from Dayton to the Holy Cross campus. Jim, line 
coach ac Dayton, resigned to take a similar spot 
under Dr. Eddie. 
John English, of the J. P. English Steel Co. m 
Tacoma, Wash., was married Aug. 12 to Miss Su­
zanne Marie Scil in St. Patrick's Church at Walla 
AValla. 
From Douglas Gioi^o: 
"Here's a little news about myself, if the Sec'y of 
the Class of '33 would be interested. I am still in the 
Xa\.y Afedical Corps as Commander and head nf 
the Department of Anesthesiology of the Naval 
Medical Center, Bethesda, Maryland. 
"Liwng at present in Washington, D. C at 
3819 Van Ness St., NW, with wife and six clilidren. 
three for St. Mar>-'s and three for Notre Dame. At 
present we are all sitting tight when more medical 
officers may be needed on ships or with the ^farincs 
in the Korean conflict." 
Joe Shedtetski, U. of Nev*ada athletic director and 
football coach, has withdrawn from the running for 
regent of the school. Joe had entered the race to 
get better consideration for the problems of his 
athletic department and apparently got his results 
without the expense of a campaign. 
From his mother, we learn that Jerxj- Ashley b in Mt. Cannel Merc>- Hospital in Detroit following an operation. 
Charles D. CaiJiman is the Canadian Sales Repre­sentative, with headquarters in Toronto, for the Kennedy-Van Saim Mfg. & Eng. Corporation. 
Your class secretary: Joseph D. A. ^fcCabe, Ros­ary College, Ri^-er Forest, HI. 
1934 
BIG news this time. Not big in volume, but big in the sense that *34 people actually took quills in sturdy right fbts and wrote letters. 
Seven came in either direct or through the Cahill-Hitchner neu-s room at T^D ticket headquarters. When you write the **dear old pal" letters to Bob, be prepared to be quoted, for there's a pipeline to 6575 Glenwood in Chicago. 
Alphabetically, Jchn H. Beglcy is the first of the quill-flourishers, and he quilled like tliis: 
BEGLEY SPEAKS: 
**I received yoin: post card of Nov. 15, 1949, when I was residing in Chicago and have been carr>-ing it with mc ever since. About that time I decided to accept a position in New York City as manager of the Kohl and Madden Printing Ink Co. (636 Uth Ave.). 
"My family is now residing in Greenwich. Conn. We have two small children ^v•ho arc enjoying this section of the cotmtry very tnucli. 
"Have had lunch with Tom Walsh, class of '35 (no chaise, Hochreiter-efm), several times. Jim Shdb, commissioner of investigations in New York, was along one day. 
*^Rcad with interest in Cleveland that Clevc Carey was in charge of all advertising, radio, and tele­vision work for Rexall Drug. 
"I saw the NYU-ND basketball game and had a chat with Ed Krause. "If I nm on to any news, I shall pass it on 
to you." 
It couldn't happen to a hungner column, Jolm H. BEFORE BU 
The journalism department was strict on funda­mentals of the alphabet, so I'll show this English major that I know BU comes after BE. So Harr\­
Active Duty Call 

Maj'or Jack Scott, *38, personnel manager of the South Bend Trihine, was recalled to active duty in the U. S. Marine Corps last month. 
Commanding officer of a Marine Com­bat Engineer battalion, Jack won the Silver Star for valor in the South Paci­fic in World War II. He expected to be sent immediately to Korea, where the Marines are reported to be acquitting themselves quite nicely. 
Besides his Silver Star, Jack got a Bronze Star for action on Saipan and a Purple Heart. He is married and the father of two children. 
Burchell of Farr and Co., 120 Wall, N. Y., drop your market anal>-st's devices and tell the class what you told Bob Cahill: 
*'Robert—I said I would do tliis—and I will! "Frank Unton: works in the comptroller's de­partment of Allied Chemical, now that he is an almost-retired colonel of the U. S. Army. Lives in Lynbrook, L. I., with his wife, Jane, and daughter (4), Joyce. Spends all his time on the "back forty" of his property wherein he hires Burchell as a week-end laborer at wages that crj' to heaven for vengeance. *0 what a tangled web ^v•e weave— when first we bother with the Hkes of Linton,' say I. 
"LIAR OF THE MONTH" "John Maslerson: Lives anything but a quiet life in a beautiful rancli house on the banks of Lake Success, L. I. Wife: Ann; sons Bobby and Bill. Works as promotion and sales director of Ronald Press (Gardens of Ancient China?) And here's an ironic twist: textbooks are his specialty. 'In age he sells what in youth he scorned.' 
"A. Donald Bricc: 'Advertising manager,' etc., of Dictaphone Corp. Has just given me his sacred word to write you—immediately. If he doesn't, publish his picture under *Liar of the Month.' 
(EFM note: ray *»"ife chortled over this guy's stuff; threatened not to read my column if I cut a word. Keep going, Burcliell.—EFM) 
^'Hugh Fitzgerald: Has also promised to write. He will, becausct like mc, he is a man of his word —a not uncommon characteristic of the truly poor. 
CAS THEY? 
"Eugene Healy: Retired author ('C. Crane's First Case,' etc.) now working for W. W. fiorton (pub­lishers of *The Mature Mind.') Lives in Forest Hills. Wife, Annette; daughter, Christine; son, Eugene Jr. Possibly his greatest distinction: claims to have seen Dr. William Shields during the last four years. Can anyone else make that statement? 
"Gcorsc Rodidcau: This is a fact: lives in 

Southern France with his wUe, Eileen. Occupation: 
painting. Has done an outstanding job, and is an 
artist of some reputation. 
"Harry M. Burdwll: writes market analyses and 

sells sugar for Farr and Co., New York. Wife: 
Alice; daughters, Mar>--Alice (8), Jane (4). Li\-es 
in Lynbrook." 
And in the hearts of his classmates for that 

letter. More—more—. 
KENNEY KALLING— K for Kenney, W. J., comes next. Bill wTotc from his prescription pharmacy at 714 Lee, Charleston. 
W. Va., and we were so pleased that we risked a ticket for a few minutes' quick visit en route to Tar Hcelia for a vacation. He'll have a command post at the Hoffman for the Carolina game, and would be speecrhless if Afurphy, Gannon and Nacht­wey, wht tcKva ted medicos from Sarin's ih ird, marched in. 
Bill helped Dean Lawrence Baldinger to Charles­ton for UND Night. He also reported that Town>­man V. Reishman clumped around for a while with a cast on his foot. He no doubt broke it kicking the wall in rage after this publication's linot^-pes garbled his name and his new so'n's. LinotN'pes did it, yessir; no reporter or copy editor had a thing to do y.-ith it. 
O for O'Neil, Jack. Here's a silent guy who would certainly guard the secrets of Oak Ridge: "Hope these applications aren't too late.** Thai's it. No more. Letterhead: Wcstinghouse, 411 Sorth 7th, St. Louis, Mo. 
P FOR PHANEUF 
P for Phaneuf, and also from St. Louis—Social 

Planning Council, 503 N. 7th (Hey, yousc arc 
neighbors). Al penned: "Just haven't had a 
chance to get up to the University for some time. 
See quite a few of our class around here (those are 
all Fehligs, Al). Then, too, this is a good stopover 
town for those traveling. If you're ever near 
here, plan on stopping over." OK, you fugitive 
from Fort Monmouth! See you in the army—again. 
QQQ for Quinn, Quinn and Quinn, 176 Mincola Blvd., ditto, L.L They all three sell oceans of fuel oil. The one on the right wrote; that's Charlie. Charlie quit moving tankers around L. I. Sound long enough to say: 
"Dear Ed. It lias taken me 16 years to write my first note to our class secretary. The urge was prompted by the lack of news in the March Alumnus. So we rally 'round the flag of 19J4. 
**About two Weeks ago, I \*as out at ND with four prospects: three for football and one for bas­ketball. While on the campus. I met Charlev* Haf­froo, taking a respite from his coaching duties at the U. of San Francisco by watching the Fighting Irish ''practice.*' The games next fall will be tea parties in comparison. Charley looked more like an actor's agent than a football coach. 
THERE'S ALWAYS L 
"Another classmate on campus was Eli Abraham (Shaheen). I've been on campus five times in the past two years and ever>- time I meet Eli. He claims to be running a large and prosperous ma­chine tool plant at Sturgis, Mich.; I think he has it in the basement of the "Caf." Seriously, Eli lias saved the day many times ivhen one has walked all o\-cr campus after a 900-milc trip, looking in vain for someone you might know. EH looks well, has changed little from '34. 
"At home, I am able to report that Frank LaBome is L. I. sales manager for Burrv- Biscuit^: doing well, but his heart belongs to coaching, and he hopes to get back to it some day. 
"Another popular member of our class, Jack Robinson, has gone into the home frozen food business and is doing well. 
FULL HOUSE 
"As for myself, . someone's good prayers have helped me prosper in the fuel oil business. My family has increased to five; full house—three queens and two jacks. Instead of going to Indiana for my summer vacation, I expect to take the family to Florida to IfKjk for a couple of acres in the sun for my old age. 
"I'm hoping to go to the football games at Cleveland and New Orleans next fall. 
**P.S.: My best to Vince Fclili; when vou see him." 
The W's come next, and this W-person brought good cheer to four individuals: Moose Krause, who always likes to get mail; Bob Cahill, who always likes to sell tickets; Ed Mansfield, who alwa>'s likes for scHneone to write his column; the alumni 
'•vvhcrc'd he go?" department, which always likes to find a missing alumnus. 
\VOLFE CALL 
He is John M. Wolfe, 314 \V. Pierson, PhoenLx, 

Arizona (get it, alumni office?), and he wrote Ed 
Krausc: "Not having seen you since I934» and 
wondering if you remember the second floor of St. 
Ed's in '32, I now make the usual request of all 
good alumni for help in getting tickets. 
'•Left Waterloo, Iowa, in 1946, so I no longer 

have the opportunity of going to Iowa City, Chicago 
or South Bend to sec a Notre Dame team play. 
Sitting out here on the desert, one gets mighty 
lonesome to see a big g^me (here he put on the 
bite for 4 USC). 
"We follow your progress through the newspapers 

and magazines and you certainly have done a 
mighty fine job." 
B to W. That's it. How about the rest of the 
alphabet? Get the hint, you silent illiterates? 
Xon-postal news sources brought stuff like this 
to light: 
PRESIDENTS ALL 
.A few hours at ND reunion time showed Mike 
Balog, George Martinet and Vince Fehlig back at 
city hall for the club presidents' annual council. 
The first two made the caf look like old times Sat­
urday night, and the last escaped for St. Louis with 
the alumni golf trophy in his capable hands before 
we had chance to sec him. 
(Personal to bis three goUing \ D brothers: it 
was a 74, Hugh Bums announced, so don't buy any 
if Vince sells any 64 stock around home!) Not many 
alumni give more to alumni affairs than Vince, and 
again the St. Louis club recognized that with the 
presidcnc>-. Nice work. Dad! 
.At the reunion, we learned Eli Shaheen's secret. 
Eli has a collection of brass buttons, all legally 
acquired, and flashes the proper one at the gate 
each June and moves into hours of rcmcmbcr-whcn­
ning with one of four classes. He's always good 
for a '34 note, and like Quinn said, it's always 
good to see him there along the welcoming walks. 
Aside to ex-President Martinet of the Mononga­
hela club: the hat was safe! 
ANOTHER PRESIDENT 
Does *'A. W, Crowlej', President. McNamar and 
Crowley, Inc." do anything to you? That's official 
for Tony, actually '35 but adopted by '34. He 
headquarters in Salem, III., is the same genial 
storN'makcr, and puts more time on steel than 
stor>- fabrication despite the LLB on the wall. 
Many '34 publications men will vote for a reunion 
time bright idea switched on by Lou Hniby, '35, 
the ex-Dome donio now a high-ranking GE lamp 
promotion man in Cleveland. Lou wants to sec 
a publications luncheon during reunions for all 
ex-ND writers, maker-uppers, and photo-snappers. 
Here's one vote. Lou looks little different, even 
after years of staying 48 hours ahead of Phil 
Spitalny and his no-man orchestra. 
AND BILL KENNEDY Ed Van Huisseling and Bill Kennedy of '35 were other ex-Scholastic men backing this idea in June, Ed's in Chicago, but may be heading over­seas. Civilian, fortunately. Bill's in New York; public relations. 
Other '35 cousins were Lee Moorman and Art Cromn, who let Detroit run itself \i-hile they Joined tlie 173 other men of '35. 
KENNEDY AND HUSING .\ New York trip brought Walt Kennedy into focus again. He's engineering headlines for the National Basketball League from the 8th floor of tlie Empire State building, and hit about 18 cities in a hurry when the college all-stars played the HaHem GIobc-Trottcrs at season's end. Walt is still working with Ted Husing, too. Keep that postponed lunch warm, Walt. 
Bill Ayrcs left a phone message at the Commodore as lie headed for South Bend and hb Studebaker public relations desk. Thanks, William—and how about a letter? You must see numerous '34 char­acters in your South Bending and traveling. With Iiotels short these coming fall week-ends, perhaps you hide, wisely, behind a phony house number. 
HEAD MAN Bless Clyde Lewis for becoming head V of tlie VFW. Even if nothing else happens to '34 people, Clyde can be counted on for a paragraph. Did you see that full-page cut in Life? The ex-football manager looked quite dapper handing that enormous marfale-shootin' trophy to champion "Po'kchop." . Then he was in the N.Y. press awarding carctt-om 
September-October, 1950 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
DR. ARTHUR C. STENIUS 

Head of Wayne University's Audio-Visual Materials Consultation Bureau is Dr. Arthur C. Stenius, a 1928 Notre Dame graduate. Dr. Stenius went into the Detroit public school system in 1928 as an instructor, took an M.A, at Uni­versity of Detroit in 1935 and a Ph.D. at Ohio State in 1941. 
A pioneer in the audio-visual field, he was one of the developers of Wayne's audio-visual service whose consultation bureau offers advice for concerns pro­ducing material for school use. In 1947 he was loaned to the Education Film concern in New York City as production and editorial director. 
Dr. Stenius was sent to occupied Ger­many following World War II to inves­tigate needs and reconunend instruction­al materials there for the Occupation authorities. In 1948 he began producing, co-operating with the Detroit Times, a monthly film strip on current history. The strip is distributed throughout both public and parochial schools in Detroit. 
He was president of the Greater De­troit Film Council in 1948 and has authored several dozen articles for mag­azines like See and Hear, Safety Educa­tion, Revieiv of Educational Research and Michigan Vocationa.1 Outlook, 
Through his initiative a group of Michigan educators met in 1946 in De­troit to determine a policy for classroom use of sponsored, or commercial mate­rials as instruction aids. That policy has since become the most widely ac­cepted guide in regard to the problem. 
Dr. Stenius has been a professor of education at Wayne since 1947. He is married and has two children. 
Judge Harold Medina a deserved VFW award in a bedside presentation. But when the Chicago con­vention came around, that's when the printers went under the table for bigger type. The Mc­Arthur-Truman-Formosa story peeped as Mr. Lewis ran the convention, remember? More people like Lewis should take on those jobs; he worked at it, judging from comments from rank and file members I meet on the road. 
Just for luck, we paused long enough in N. Y. Derby Day to send BUI Vwcian a good-wish wire for "Black George.*' He won the Derby Trial, but I fear he stopped to read our wire before going under the one that counted for the, roses. Won't jinx you again. Bill! 
TOM DALTON Paul "Murf" Manoslu of the Sunday Visitor staff made his yearly stop in Chicago en route to see Bunk Kennedy in New Hampton, County Ken­nedy, lou'a. In New York, efforts to track down Tom Dalton at the Kingsbridge Veterans Hospital were unsuc­cessful, so we hope that means good news of a return home for Tom. He put in some long months after his WW II hurt in the Navy, and that class of '34 teIe\'ision set was a big help, the tmderground tells us. Part of this copy comes from—ssshhh—the camp of the enemy, Tarheclta. The new Carolina series will be good for ND in this area where she is little known because of scattered alumni and about a 99 per 'cent non-Catholic population (less than 20,000 in more than 4,000,000 persons in North Carolina). People here hope for a long series— and they don't figure on lf>sing them all, either. Chapel Hill is a ver>' interesting spot to visit for the '51 game. 
FLASH! Hey, we need some ideas! Send them to Jim Armstrongs on how you'd set up a '34 rally point at the fotu- home games this fall. That old "see you in the caf" routine is now like "see you on Broadway someplace." Think, men, think. A note of gratitude in passing to the '35 reunion committee for its quick hospitality to a lost '34 cousin at their fine party. Their attendance total was startling: 5ump*n like 175. That's a goal for us for '54, eager-beavers. And now, the class will come to order. This is serious stuff. Put down the air rifle, O'TooIe. Quit selling textbooks, Caulfield. This class is about to be organized. No CIO. No 
A. F. of L. Just organized. 
HERE'S WHY 
Most of you know the story. The alumni asso­ciation has put fruitful years of work into better clubs and now brings every club president across the land to ND once a year. The Foundation has certainly been smartly set up and smartly admin­istered—with many of the imsung giring unpaid hours to the work. 
Now the classes. We need permanent staffs just for ordinary good bviness reasons, for better re­unions, renewed friendships, more complete class news reporting, kindling of interest among men too far away to come back often—and most important, every-day backing of a University showing mar­
velous, solid growth. That's not one-sided. We should never forget that every better teacher, building, graduate, proj­ect, and headline for ND increases the value of our own degrees and adds to our own stature, even if we did move on 16 years ago. We're part of today's and tomorrow's Notre Dame, as well as yes­terday's. 
This doesn't involve dollars (but send them stead­ily, pray do.) This means ideas, daily conduct, active work with local clubs, keeping * abreast of ND's proud march so we c:an inform the unin­formed ^)out her real nature. 
HERE'S HOW Classes back at ND this June started with new officer groups. Interim classes not scheduled for reunions are to put their old permanent officers back into uniform—plus four regional vice-presi­denu. '33 did a good job of naming those four men from four colle^ues. Do you remember x'ing a ballot back in '33 for these four capable leaders (take a look at the Dome; they really looked capable): 
Bresideat, iht Rev. Janes V."-Motcom, Lewis Memorial Hoapita!, 3001 S. MlcUgas, Chicago. Vkc-pnadcBt, James J. (Red) Forrest, 10 Forest St., StoaAam, Mass. Treasurer, Wilfiam J. Powell, Jr., 156 Hamptoa Bhd.. Massepcqua, N. Y. 
Here's GHQ's suggc&tion, and it looks good: 
1) Put these duly elected four senior class officers back on active dut>-; 2) Let them appoint four regional vice-presidents pro tcm; 3) At reunion time, elect a new slate as this year's classes did. 
That's democratic (lower case "d"), economical —and workable. 
Until firing day, we'll continue to work as news reporter, unless Father Jim serves notice Avhcn I sec him for a luncheon session at George DcMetrio's Hoosicr Room in the Loop. My election in '49 must have been legal at the Oliver, men, for even Armstrong and Dooley voted through the din of back-thumping, sandwich-chomping, and back-pounding. 
SNEER-LEADERS One last word for this fall: \vin, lose or draw, why not circulate some of the Foundation's vcr\' professional material on ND during the sneer-lead­ers* season? Tr>' last December's striking copy of "Xotrc Dame." Use Francis Wallace's **Xotre Dame Story" and Father Hope's centennial stor\­to refresh your memory-. Did you ever bother to take some othcr-scliool alumnus around N D and watcli his admiration grow as you start with the Old College and tlien walk him bandy-legged around tlie New University? Did you ever equip traveling friends with an ND map and a compass zeroed in on the Dome? Did you c\Tr present tlic real facts to the "foot­ball school" scoffers at lunch? Tr>* some of tlic school's printed material on your upper-bracket business associates. 
UNIFORM, PLEASE 
It's e\"er>-body's job, men, Wc can't let Francis ^Valiace, Father Hope, Father Ca\-anaugh, Jim Arm­stroDg, John Cackley, Art Halcj* and Ray Donovan play all the games, year in and year out. Let's at least ask for a suit. 
Pardon the pulpiteering. The old place really has something—and wc can help it get more—and get more for ourselves in the getting. 
That's where an operating class can help share the work. 
Keep sending your $$$ to the Foundation—and mail your ideas to 6575 Glcnwood, Chicago 26. They'll get to the right people— 
—But only after I glean >-our title, wife's name, and nomenclature of your offspring from the letter. We need news, gentlemen, like that here from Begley, BaichcU, Kenny, O'Neil, Phancuf, Quinn, Wolfe, bless tfaeir corresponding hearts and hands. 
Walk your eyes past this comer next month. We'll have some new addresses for you. Free. 
Vince McA]ooD*s neu- address is the .American Catholic Club, X.C.W.C, Via Consolationc 1, Rome, Italy. 
DEATHS John H. Clark, of York, Pa., died July 1 after a heart attack. Mr. Clark was coadi of the York Catholic High School basketball team and played on the 1931 and 1932 footbSl teams at the Uni­versity. SYMPATHY To James E. Fagan, of Glen Ridge, N. J., on the death of his mother. 
To Ridiard Dauid 0*Coimor on the death of his father, August 2. 
Secretary, William C. OToolc, 425 S. .Aiken, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
1935 
John Slnszka is now Dr. Sluszka, having earned a Ph.D. at Ottawa (Canada] University with a disser­tation on "Queen Jadwiga in History and Legend." John took an M.A. at NYU and later spent two years (prc-Hitlcr} at Unix-ersity of Warsaw in Poland. 
Dick BallieU, Milwaukee Club president recently worked at the installation of $300,000 worth of Cutler-Hammer Unitrols in the Coosa River News­print plant in Childersburg, Ala. Dick says tliat the plant produces a mile of paper a minute and is the second U. S. newsprint mill to produce with south-em pine. 
From BiU Welter: 
**Am now with Union Pacific in Omaha, as claims agent, but don't know how long tlie new address will be good, as' I'm on 24-hour call from Uncle. When an official of UP read my application and saw I^d graduated from Notre Dame he said 'You were indeed fortunate m being able to go to that school'." 
Well gang, here wc are again, and ver\- little 
MR. ADAMS 
Alumni Director John Q. Adams, '26, was one of the featured speakers at a workshop held Aug, 7 at the University. The workshop is devoted to the teaching of Catholic economic and social prin­ciples. 
Mr. Adams, president of the Manhat­tan Refrigerating Co. of New York, in speaking on "Employer Associations" called for practical application of the grand ideals of Christian social doctrines to the problems of labor and manage­ment. ' 
"The task before us," Mr. Adams said, "is the reform of men and institu­tions. This cannot take place unless we have individuals and institutions dedi­cated to reform. Individuals cannot effect this reform no matter how power­ful their personalities. Organization ex­tends and perpetuates the influence of individuals and compensates for their weaknesses. There is no substitute for organization. 
"Employers bear serious responsibili­ties, both spiritual and economic. Thus in its search for profits, management must be ever mindful of the require­ments, both material and spiritual, of labor. God's chief interest on earth is man. Man should be management's chief interest, too. Not profits or wealth, though we do have to make profits to remain in business. 
"The profit motive is not harmful. It is to subordinate man to profits that is harmful, to place profits above the common good of society. The source of trouble in our economy is not the profit motive or private property. It is sin; and no class has a monopoly on this com­modity. 
"The Christian doctrine of ownership as stewardship is sound business. And it is along these lines that I would sug­gest, as employer organizations, we move. I am sure that many employers are beginning to think this way. But more than organizations, we need more employers with vision. We need less talk and more action, less blueprints and more sacrifice, less meetings and more prayers. If the laity supplies the leaven, the bread of peace and prosper­ity will rise in our world of industry." 
has come through the mill since our last chat to­gether. After wc mention the two items before us. we'll return to that Reunion correspondence and in that way give you a rundown on some of the crowd. 
Just before Reunion the May issue of "Contact"' came across our desk. It had been forwarded by Tom Proctor. '"Contact," in its first year of publi­cation, is issued for members of the American In­ternational Insurance Groups. In the May number wc found in tlic middle of the magazine, a two-page spread entitled ''Venezuela Trade Alission En­tertained by American International in Washington.** Tliere, in one of the group pics was friend Tom. He was flanked by Manuel Matienza of the Mission and Commanding General of the U. S. Airforrc. Hoyt C. Vandcnberg. 
We have known of Tom's association ^vith Paul 
V. McNutt for the last two years, but the deadline mail brought us an announcement of the new law partnership of McNutt. ScoII, Longcopc, Proctor and Lee. Their New York office is at 84 William St. and the Washington office is in the Barr Build­ing. Congratulations Tom! Our pres. has really done himself up brown. 
Also in the deadline mail came another announce­ment. This one told us that Viacc Gorman had fonnally set up his medical office in Bridgeport, Conn. Wc told you something of Vince's plans awhile back. But now they are finalized. Vince has opened his office "for the practice of general surgery" at 928 Lafayette St. in Bridgeport. Con­gratulations to the ''little man" who sweated out achieving his ambition. It was a long, tough grind, Vince, but we all hope that at long last you will reap the reward of your struggle. 
And now wc turn to the healthy folder of cor­rcqmndcnce which Bill Ryan sent to us late in July. 
Here are a couple of letters that should roll you all in the proverbial ables. Among the names pre­sented to our Retmion Committee by the Alumni Office u'as one which did not seem unusual or \vas not picked up for the first mailing. It broughr forth this reply: 
"Thank you for including me in the class of '35 Reunion. However, acceptance a still a moot ques­tion, for not being flappcrish, smoking and cocktail­ing would be a—a new situation. You see, in June 1949 I stepped out of a position which was forty years long—an Elementary* Principal in one and the same school in Michigan City. Some record?!? 
"I am enclosing a dollar to help ease your chair­manship and may I add—Wouldn't Ripley of 'Be­lieve It or Not' fame have relished this situation? Sincerely yours, Elizabeth C. Kachur." 
Bni Ryan traced the deal and found a woman had actually been included on the list presented to him. He was told that she "must have taken a summer cotursc in 1935 and recei\'ed a degree." This he wrote to Miss Kachur, thanking her and bowing out as gracefully as possible. BUT, she replied as follows: 
"So—^you t*x» arc added to my 'pearl string' of raised eyebrows concerning my degree from Notre Dame University!! 
"No doubt the other '35ers commented thusly when they read your list—^*Gcc, those South Amer­icans are fond of naming themselves after celestial beings regardless of sex. Hmm .. . Elizabeth!! Some name for a fellow! 
"Taken a summer course in 1935 to get my degree??????—More summers than a decade to get THAT—It goes way back to the time Clarks gave us chicken diimers at the close of the term under those beautiful elms near the Grotto and Knute Rockne was one of us. 
"If you have had as much fun out of this episode as I ha\-e, and you think it will add spice to your comments as chairman, you have my consent to get Bob' ^^Trlt'g"* enclosed his expense defraying chuckles from the rest of the *35ers." assist with that he could not coiDe. 

NOTRE DAME ihc ytixd Bob Our classmate resides at 129 West 5th Street in is with Eurelai Petroleum Co. in Kaasas City, Mo. 
Michigan City, Indiana. Bill had planned to read 
these letters at the Smoker hut circumstances did 
not seem right at the time. 
Fran ScUneter wrote from Beaumont, Texas: 

"Your latest communication regarding the *35 Re­
union finds me in the middle of a transcontinental 
move. The lean and seemingly interminable years 
of training in Boston arc at an end and I have 
chosen Pasadena, California, to begin the practice of 
Internal Medicine. I regret indeed that this state 
of affairs will prevent my attending the Reunion 
which I know will be a most enjoyable alTair, for 
all who are fortunate enough to get to ND." We 
missed you Fran but certainly appreciated your 
financial contribution toward the cause. Hope the 
M.D.ing blooms for you. Let us have your address. 
While Jim Kck dropped in for an evening of the 

Reunion with his charming wife, we want to quote 
part of a letter which gives you another indication 
of the trials and tribulations of some of our '35ers, 
but shows that we have the stuff in us to come 
through fighting. Sa\*s Jim: 
"My new office address is given on this letter­

head (Suite 230, Carlson Bldg., 636 Church St., 
Evanston, 111.). My residence is at 821 Madison St., 
Evanston, 111. During January of this year my 
family moved from Rochester, \finn. I am like a 
recent graduate, just starting on my career as an 
urologist, so it would be more like a new com­
mencement this June rather than a Reunion. 
"It seems odd that it should have taken me 15 years to train in my specialty after leaving Notre Dame, but I guess time has passed rather evcntfully at that. I spent 5 years at Northwestern Universitv-Medical School from 1935-40, then interned for 18 months at Cook County Hospital in Chicago. Like most others. I then passed 3 ^ years of my life in the Army Medical Corps, diiefly with the 297tli General Hospital and with the 92nd Chemical Mortar Bn. 
"After return from Europe, I started my spe­cialty training at the Mayo Foundation on Febru­ary 1, 1946. I left Rochester' after 3 years, IVA months, having spent my last year there as first as­sistant to Dr. Virgil S. Counseller in general sur­gery. While I expect a rather stormy two years or so ahead of me, I do hope to continue in practice here in Evanston." 
To you Jim, as to Vince and Fran, we send every hope for a fruitful practice. Your road is about ready for a straightening out into a super highway of success. 
We told you something about why Jim McDevitt could not return to Reunion in our last chapter. We have now come across his letter to Bill Ryan in which he tells xis something of more '35crs. Here goes—and much thanks Jim for your info. 
Jack Coogan, 39 Cedar Ave., Farmingdale, N. Y.. is on the faculty of the New York Aericultural School at Farmingdale. Jack has two offspring. 
Bill Malloy, 94-06 40th Road, Elmhurst, N. Y., an ex '35er, was Jim*s old roomie in Lyons, and is now with the N.Y.C. Fire Department. He graduates from N. Y. Law School this year. Bill 
•has a two-year-old to his credit. 
Mike Santulli, with whom we had a good but all too brief chat in front of the campus Churcih Sun­day morning after Alumni Mass, is in the ofiice of the Collector of Internal Revenue, Customs House, 
N. Y. C. Mike was with the Field Artillery in Europe and was ^%'ounded several times. He con­tinues his uniform interests by being ver>' active in N. Y. Legion affairs. 
Harold May, address unknown but formerly of Peoria. 111., was in the 338th Infantry Regiment with Jim McDe%itt. He was later an Infan'ry Battalion Commander in Austria with the 193rd Division. 
Ralph Gauthier, 474 Rugby Rd., Brooklyn, N. Y., 

still a bachelor, sells paper mill equipment. 
Chet Smith, 23 Columbine Ave., North Merrick, 

N. Y., is married and has 3 children. He is nn executive with Frederick Locrser's Department Store in Garden City, N. V. 
Gcoi ^ Krug and Joe Bittncr are both successful 

Long Island attorneys. 
And from the files of Joe Lyndi, Reunion co-chairman, comes this bit of news from Emilio F. Delia, M.D., 25 Crane St., Newark, N. J. Says Doc "Moe"— 
"I'll not be able to come as I*m a young G.P. (general practitioner, that is fellas!) only 3J4 years even though I got out of med school in 1939. My 
Sepiember-October, 1950 
Books 

THE HOLY SEE AT WORK, by Ed­ward L. Heston, c,S,C., Bruce, Mil­waukee, pp. 188, $2.50. 
The publisher quite adequately de­scribes this work as "a popular explana­tion of the intricacies involved in the control and operation of the Catholic Church by the Pope through the Roman Curia." It is exactly that—and you will find by reading it just what the Curia, is. You will, incidentally, find out a great deal of other interesting facts about the administrative side of our Church, all set down by one in a position to know: Father Heston has served as a member of the secretariate of the Apostolic Delegate in Washington, has been a resident of Rome for the last fourteen years, and at present is Pro­curator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, as well as superior of its in­ternational college in Rome. 
It strikes us that this book can be put to many uses. The Catholic, lay or reli­gious, will find it a mine of information. It should be in every school library, at least above the elementary level, where it will serve as a valuable adjunct to classes in religion and church history and as a general reference book. Priests should find it helpful in their convert work particularly in dispelling objections bom of ignorance and adverse propa­ganda. Here it could be utilized as a supplement to Brunini's Whereon to Stand which has a similar objective. Most people whatever their creed are interested today in the process of can­onization, in the handling of marriage cases, the election of a pope, and other topics treated here briefly and clearly. 
three boys need an awful lot of stuff, don't you know? 
"i spoke to Dr. Jim McDimald of Pittsburgh, two weeks ago on long distance, (boy has he a soft spot for you and mc and ND.) 
"What Vd like to do if I came for Reunion would be to put on a good game of touch football with Bill Lord, Dom Varra\'eto, and other Badia Hall cxpatriots—boy did I wow the youngsters in the Army when I played football with them—but we have to watch our coronaries." 
Boh Forbes is general agent of the Pilot Life Insurance Co. of Greensboro, N. C. But where Is he? Why he*s the big man way down there on the Island of Puerto Rico. Bob's address is Cabrer Bldg., Stop 16 1-2, 1105 Ponce de Leon Ave.. San­turce, Puerto Rico, P. O. Box 3628. We wish'you well. Bob, and appreciated your contribution to the festivities. 
Armand Kellogg sent along a check wiih his note on a ver\* interesting letterhead which told us that he is with "Kellogg and Kellogg—Archi­tects" at P. O. Box 945, Rock Spring, Wyoming. 
Our old friend m Sorin Hall days Bob KcaGne wrote from Dubuque, Iowa. Bob was ooe of the '35 lawyers. Tbot^h hopeful of retuniii^ until the very last minute, he found he could not make it. Bob, how is Louie Fautsch? 
As wc look at the n=xt letters tumios vtp in the file we might well go on for again as many pages. But the Ryan-Lyndk file will keep as "hot" for issues to come. The stuff will grow older as time passes but we know you will want to hear all of it. In the meantime, how about a few notes from you out there across the nation? We want to mix some current data along with the aging material. 
From Thomas G. Vmctor, ^35, comes the an­nouncement of the formation of a partnership for the general practice of law under the firm name of McNutt, Scoll, Longcopc, Proctor and Lee, with New York offices at 84 William Street, New York 7. 
Ridurd W. Snoofci, president and manager of the Citizens* Loan & Saivngs Co., has been elected chairman of the city zoning board of adjustment in St. Joe, Missouri. 
BIRTHS To Dr. and Mrs. Engcae C Morphy (Ridgewood, 
N. J.), a son, George Nicholas, June 19. To Dr. and Mrs. KcBMthLaws (Lafayette, lad.), a son, Robert Michael, Sept. 3. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Jmeph V. BCacDoeald (Daven­port, Iowa), a son, Thomas Francis, August 23. 
Yoor class secretary: FranUyn C Hodhreitcr» 1327 Ftetwood Rd., BaltiaMn 12, Bfd. 
1 Q^a. 13-YEAR REUNION 
• '*'» Joe 8, 9, 10, 1951 Bin Shakeycar^—the same gent who chucked THAT pass in the '33 CHiio State game—is export representative for the Independent Pneumatic Tool Co. of Aurora, 111. He's just finished a business trip 
throu^ the Middle East, Spain and the Mediter­ranean countries. 
Vit^ statistics: two sons. Bill, Jr., 6 and Warren, 2. 
Jack Dcmptcy is distribution engineer for tlic Puget Sound Power and Light Co., in Payallup, Washington. He was elected this summer to the vice-chairmanship of the Tacoma section of Ameri­can Imtitute of Electrical Engineers. 
From Fred McNciU: "No special news but there are several '36crs here in St. Louis and thought I'd send their names in. "First of all Fred Weber, past president of the St. Louis Club is here. He's now the father of four. Fred is in cJiaigc of the chemistry department at Phelan-Foust Paint Co. We might be assinning things to claim Fred as a '36 man as he got a mas­ter's in '37 and a doctor's degree in '39. But Fred claims he's '36, so we'll keep him. 
"Bin WUte is O.B. q>cdalist and has quite a family of his own. Another MD we can htag about is Bin McDosaid, who is in general practice. An­other Bin—O'CoBBor is in the insurance business. Then another Irishman who can't be overlooked: Tbomas J. Treacy, manager of Merck and Co. Chemicals. Tom is* a member of the btiard of the St. Louis Club and a past treasurer. 
"As for myself, I'm practicing architecture here and get around cnoi ^ to sec several of the '36 men. One of my finest visits was with Enriqne Cred in Mexico City last FaU. My wife and I met the Creels and they have four of the most beautiful children you ever saw. Enrique has his own architectural office. They took us every place, even had front row seats at the buH fight. 
"On our way to Mexico we stopped in Houston to see Fanl Do^de who is a big chemical man and well on his way to being a Texas rancher. At an­other time we saw Salvador Dacaia in Panama City. "Duke" hasn't changed except for some added weight. He still wants nothing to do with tempera­tures which occur north of the Gulf of Mexico. He doesn't quite look like the high hurdler or slim track man of student days. 
"There's just one other *36 man I've had con­tact with recently. I should say from time to time, and that's Didk Saooks, of St. Joseph, Ho . He's the same fine feUow but getting thin on top." 
SYMPATHIES To George A. Binder for his father who died of a heart attack June 18. He requests your prayers. 
You- das> secretary: Joaepk F. MavfieM, 423 
S. Main St., Crown Point, Indiana. 
33 
1937 
Father Caii Bauer, C^.C , ib conducting an in­doctrination program in Catholic Action at Herman, Pa., this summer. He is conducting five laborator\­weeks in teaching Catholic las* persons hou* to form Catliolic Action groups and make them effective parts of the community. 
Tom Carney has become an author. He is listed as the wxiter of a technical thesis, "Laboratory Frac­tional Distillation.** Tom is head of the Organic Chemical Research Department of EH Lilly & Co. and editor of "Research Today.** Several of his articles have been published in the "Journal of the .American Chemical Society*.** 
This one belongs jn the Bir:hs section at the end of the column, but the Quinns descr^'c a bow be­cause we*rc late with it. On Afay 16 last they introduced to the world "America's latest crooning sensation,*' one Kevin Philip, weighing seven pounds, eight and one-quarter ounces. The premiere, accord­ing to the announcement by Inez and John took place at Newton (N. J.) Memorial Hospiul, but it was really a matinee— time. 2:03 p.m. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Hanning, a son, Michael James, June 14 in Washington, D. C. To Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Mullen (Silver Spring, Md.}, a son, Tliomas Robert, Aug. 11. 
Your class secretary*: Frank J. Reiliy, Apt. 7P, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., N. V. C. 62, X. Y. 
1938 
John O'Connor, of the Indianapolis law firm of Ruckelshaus, Reilly, Rhetts and O'Connor is new president of the Te Deum International Indianapolis chapter. And Joe Reutz, guard and quarterback on some of Layden*s teams is head football coach at St. Afar>-*s in Aforaga, Calif. Joe had been an assistant to Jtic Vcrducd, whom he replaces. 
John R. Tobin has been granted a Master of Science in Medicine at University* of Minnesota. 
BIRTHS To Dr. and Mrs. John N. Fogel (Chula Vista, Calif.), a daughter, Elizabeth .Anne. Julv 15. Wt.: 8 lbs.. 15/2 oz. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Frank X. Schaefcr (South Bend), a daughter, Mary Frances, .August 18. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Donna Louise Janscn and Floyd E. Brower, July 22 in Chicago. 
1939 
.Another couple of montlis rolls around and time again for the meagre class news of 1939. By the time this hits print, most of the news is ancient enough but it would be a lot fresher if some of you ti'ould take enough time to drop tis a line. 
Charies Russell Riley, M.D., is now ensconced in offices for the practice of General Surgery* at 932 West Franklin St., Riclimond, Virginia, and from a salesman who calls on me, doing a very good job. 
Been having a lot of correspondence with a couple of the boys about, as explained ebewhere in tliis issue, the new plan for Alumni Officers and as secretary for lo these many years trust that you guys will carry on properly and give the new offi­cers a lot of cooperation. This plan is one that will work and will give a lot better picture of the dispersal, well-being, etc, of '39ers than docs the present method. 
With the football season in full swing hope that lliere will be more news forthcoming than has been the case. It is my hope to make the Tulane game and the Michigan State aiTair and ivould like to be able to report on quite a few of the boys. Am going lo be at the Montlcon in New Orleans for a couple of da\-s if you would like to get in touch. 
Ernest F. hsnigat, recently appointed manager of the Montgomer>'-Ward Farm Store at Middle-tou-n, O., now lives at 505 Lincoln, Middlctoivn. And J. William Costdkt^ who formerly lived at West Hartford, Conn.,, is now advertising manager of the Ca^ehart-Famsu'orth Corp., Fort Wa>-ne. 
.Add honors to Jim McKwina, research consultant with Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. He's been made chairman of the Milwaukee section of the American Chemical Society. 
Add twins to the Hu| ^ (AtUetic Trainer) Bums household in Michigan City, Ind. Mrs. B.—Elaine ^-introduced the two-platoon s\-stcm Aug. 27 and this gives them Rve youngsters, as follows: Michael 
Native Son Makes Good 
The governor of Massachusetts, Hon. Paul 
A. Dcver congratulating Rev. Francis P. Boland, C.S.C., president of Stonehill Col­lege (North Easton, Mass.] after Father Boland was sworn in as a member of the Board of Collegiate Authority of Massachu­
setts. Father Boland was bom in Everett, Mass. 
Patrick. Daniel Scamus, Susan Eileen. Ke«n Cliris­tophcr and Kathleen .\nn. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Raaf (La Paz, Bolivia, 
S. A.) a daughter, Marj- Angela, Aug. 13. Eric Rey dc Castro, '49, is her godfather. 
Your class secretary: Vincent DeCoursiy, 1917 Elizabeth St., Kansas City 2, Kansas. 
1940 
Our class news has been very sparse, but it can only improve if "the men of *40 write to Shorty." I failed to make a report covering our class reunion in June, but due to clianging Jobs I Just couldn't get the copy in on time. 
The reunion was certainly a huge success, thanks to the fine job the local committee, under the su­per\-ision of Bob Sullit^an, performed for all of us. We had a 6nc turnout but missed all of you w*ho were not there. We plan on having an election of class officers with the following offices to be filled: President—to start planning for the next reunion, and handle the 1955 reunion; four regional vice presidents—to assist the president and the secretary in collecting the class news; and secretary*—-to fur­nish the regular class news. 
I would like to enumerate all those who attended the reunion, but I do not have a list and I'm sure I would miss some of the names. Fathers Dick Fallon and John Payne, C.S.C., both attended and joined in our activities. Tom LeStrange travelled all the way from California. Jim Moore was around at all times as we all well realized. All the men of '40 now living in South Bend worked to make the reunion a success and we certainly must thank Chuck Magner, Bcmie Cushing, Bud Teah, Wayne Wahl, George Wallace, Dick Burke, Ben Sheridan, Pat Brennan, Jack DeMoss, John Morgan, Joe Miller, John Foulin, Walt Sweitzcr and others whom I haven't mentioned, but who cooperated and worked just as hard as the others. 
This is a short and poor report, but I must turn to you, each one of you, for my news; please help us out. 
Charlie Pedangno took an XLS. degree from St. John's University, at the summer commencement. 
BIRTHS 
To Xfr. and Mrs. Robert J. HoofTstetter (Colum­bus, O.), a daughter, Mary Carol>-n, June 30. Weight: lYz pounds. 
Your class secretary: Robert G. Sanford, 11(3 E. Kensington B]\-d., Sborewood, Wis. 
mo At 10-YEAR REUNION 
•
 T ^ I June 8, 9, 10. I95I Jobs Stack, 24 I^nox Road, Rockville Center, 

N.
 v., now oH-ns an M.A. in Education from St. John's Uni\-ersity. And Robert C. Nelson took his 


M.D. from Western Reserve this summer. 
George W. Ferrick, '41, has been appointed As­sistant Manager of the Buffalo Branch Office of the New York Life Insurance Co. and has received the Chartered Life Underwriter (C.L.U.) profes­sional designation. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Tomcok, Jr. (Cleve­land), a daughter, Janice, June 22. 
MARRIAGES Miss Marybelle Bradford and Ru^bcn F. Pankey in Calipatria, Calif., June 24. 
1942 
Jack Hartman—now John F. Hartman, M.D.—is now associated U'ith Dr. Thomas S. Bumbalo in Buffalo in the practice of pcdiatricrs. New address is 333 Linwood, Buflalo 9. 
Bill Bergan has become manager of the fuel oil department of Afucsing-Mcrrick in Indianapolis. Bill is married and now has two youngsters. 
FROM Charlie Hasson: 
"Am with my father's law firm in Ebensberg, Pa., 
a coimt>' seat. Our practice is dii"erstficd and one 
Is able to put to very good use the fundamentals 
learned at Notre Dame. We have three children, 
a boy five, another two and a little girl one. 
My mailing address is the same as before—^Hasson and Hasson^ Opposite Courthouse, Ebensburg, Pa.— and it sture would be nice to hear from some of the fellows who started at Notre Dame back in 1937." 
A note in from Jack Mies—now father of three and co-owner with his brother of Paramount Mor­tuar>*. Paramount, Calif.: 
"Chariie Brogser*s wife sent along a card to let me know of the Broggers' new address, 46 S. Sheii­dan Dri\*e, Muskegon, Mit:h. Brogger family status —two children, Christine Marie, 2!4 and Donald Francis, bom last November." 
Maaddl Zieglcr, of South Bend, has a brand new Ph.D. from Michigan State and will use it as a research chemist for DuPont. And Dr. Frank &f. Sellen, South Bender, has moved back from his practice in Mount Morris, 111. He just opened of&ces at 1404 Lincoln Way East. 
Neu's from Iowa re Jim O'Donohue. He's been named County Representative for the Junior Bar for Chickasaw Count>*. Jim is a candidate for County Attorney. 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Marietta Moore to Robert William O'Hara of Chicago. MARRIAGES Aliss Bemice Barbara GIosc and James W. Leising, August 19 in Kenmorc, N. V. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. James W. Murphy (Detroit), a son, Michael Timothy, Atay 18. To Mr. and Mrs. William Charies Strubitts (£\'anston. III.), a daughter, Charlenc, June 16. 
Your dass secretary: WUiam E. Scanlan, Pullman Tnist fc Savings Bank, 400 E. lllth St., Chicago 28, lU. 
1943 
From Jack Wl^ins: Thanks to Nick Gulyassy, Fred Gore, Joe Calla­han, and Bill Middcndorf we can carr>' on with the class column this issue. Again this month we will publish a list of new addresses and ask that those listed drop us a line. In that way we can publish a more representative column next issue. The last time we tried this stunt it netted zero replies from a potential thirteen. Football season wUl be tmder way when this copy reaches its readers, so I now ask that those of you attending games please send "descriptive literature" after having talked to some of the classmates outside the stadium. 

From Nick Gnlyassy, M.D., 5117 £. 117th Street, Garfield Heights 25, Ohio: "I have been meaning to write for quite some time now, but it seems there was always something cbe to do. First of all, I would like to thank all the ND men who offered their prayers for me during my recent illness. 
am still hospitalized, but well on the road to 
recovery. 
Rockne, the Horsemen and Miries off 1924 
"Up until my hospitalization, I had a Surgical 

Residence here at Marymount Hospital in Gsrfield Heights. Plans for the future arc rather indefinite. The stork visited our household April 20 and left us with Anne Marie who weighed in at seven pounds ten ounces. 
"Brother Vic Gulyassy »42, was recently elected Vice-President of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. Harold "Dutch" Hofstetter is now a registered pharmacist in Toledo, Ohio. The last I heard from John L. Redmond, M.D., he bad a residency in Pathology—also was a proud papa. Dick Tupta is now coaching at Cleveland Heights High School. 
"Haven't heard from anybody else lately—hoping to see some of the boys at the Na^y game in No­vember at the Municipal Stadium here. Will try to keep in touch whh you, John, should I pick up some news." Thanks for the letter, Nick, you have just qualified yourself as the Class Reporter for the Navy game! 
From Fred Gore (209 S. LaSallc Street, Chicago 4, Illinois): "The Chicago crowd is functioning as usual, although we do miss you every Wednesday noon. August 14 marks the day of the Chicago Club outing, and as usual they are getting a big price for it. With Fred Snite donating the greens fee it's still seven rocks for the steak dinner. Still as times are prosperous. Jack Barry and I will journey out for a round of "club-it." My game is improving tremendously and I am happy to state that shooting in the 80's is a distinct possibility in the none too distant future. (Sec'y note to Barr>*: Jackson, now you have cver>' excuse to write us a letter—if nothing else, you can debunk Fred's fan­tastic claims!) 
Bill Meyer may be moving to Chicago in the Fall. Latest word is that his company is trans­ferring him to the Windy City at his request. He has been wanting to make the move for some time, but had to wait for the right opening. 
Had lunch with Bill McCaulifiTc today and at the same time wished him "Bon Voyage." He's off for Hawaii tomorrow for a three weeks' vacation. If he likes it he may decide to stay out there. Well, that's another of the luncheon crowd to move on. Hoorah! we got Rog Cummings at the last lunch. He thrilled us with tales of tremendous wealth being made in the oil fields by his brother-in-law. 
Please pass along the word that Rog Cummings, Bob Kuipers, Jack Barry and I will be holding down the fort every Wednesday noon, same place." (Sec'y note: Toffenetti's Monroe Street Restaurant, Sec­ond Floor Dining Room) 
From BUI Middendorf (2303 Westbrook Drive, Fort Wayne 5, Indiana): Just a short note for the column, and it is really shocking ne\v-s! Two staid bachelors of our group have finally bit the dust. Yep! Bill Wamick married Miss Barbara Wooley on Saturday, August 12, and Leo J. Lewis will stagger up that aisle with Miss Kay I.afferty on August 26. I happened to be in St. Louis at the time on business and attended Bill's wedding, but will miss Leo's because la m to be an usher in thir wedding of my sister-in-law same day in South Bend. 
About three weeks ago I had lunch in EvansviIIe with Ste\'e Easner, Frandc Hillenbrand and Bob Hargrave. Wc shot the breeze about the current conflict in Korea and the possibility ot any of us going when Steve said that as a member of the active Naval Reserve he expected to have orders by September 1." 
From Joe Callahan (7208 BufTalo Avenue, Niagara Falls, New York): Since writing you in May there have been some upheavals in my plans. I am 
withdrawing from Union Carbide as of the end of August. So now I'm on my way to Ne^\* York to See some overseas companies. 
I saw Fred Gore about a month ago in Buffalo before he caught bis homeward train. Fred was on a business trip in New York State. I was very interested to read Paul Weber's letter in your lat­est column—he certainly had an interesting experi­ence going to Germany et al. Please pass on my best regards to Paul in the column next chance you get." Thanks for the letter, Joe, good luck in your new venture; and, let us know where you wind up. 
The following are the changes "of address men­tioned earlier in the column: Julian G- Atwater, 7408 S. Vernon, Chicago 19, III. George H. Blackmore, R. D. 1, Saxonburg, Pa. . Leo J. BUtiy 400 Manor Ave., Cranford, N. J. 
Sepiember-Ociober, 1950 
LIVERaOOB BlUaB McMOLLAN HUKSINGSR MILLQl LIES JfcMAVOI lOCOB fUMCLL VALUCE BACH CUmrSSlT 
FOCEHT COai-3 IBVARES CMlXiY HEARDE;J :J'33IL E KIZER MILLER VALSH CERSEI HARRIMOroU CaOOILII XmyOSTi CROWE V^IBSL UYDEII STUHLDREaEH YQkCH SAT3K HAE-DN RIGALI EDVAED3 liHITE PHELLI SHAKER -Co«?liaetit3 ­
NTTRE DA:-!E VARRIQHS &t ROSE BQVL JA.1. 1 , 1925 Jl^_ _t^ C^m pi/. NTTREDA-^r? - STAMFORD 10 <<Cmlyert Dl.tUUr t Corp, 
A rcady-for'framing copy of this picture was sent each member of the 1925 Silver Amuvcr­sary Class following the reunion last June. John Roach, '25, a member of the team and now a public relations executive of Calvert Distillers Corpi^ had the extra copies made and mailed to his classmates. Roach is third from left, front row. 
Robert E. Dinn, 519 X. Parker Ave., Indianap­
olis 1, Ind. John H. Doerr, 471 Auburn Ave., BuflTalo, N. Y. Angel Gonzalez^ 5505 Xakoma Dr., Dallas, Texas. Donald B. Guy, 5380 Rodeo Rd., Los Angeles 16, 
Calif. Joseph D. Keenan, 1433 Manchester, AVestches­ter. III. Francis A. King, Indian Rocks Beach, Indian Rock, Fla. Mario D. Massolo, 1717 Belmont, Youngstown, Ohio. Julian D. Michel, 99 Squirrel Lane, Lcvittown, 
L. I., X. Y. Edward J. Powers, 6637 Plaza Dr., Houston, Texas. John C. Russell, 5637 Bennington Rd., Kansas City, Mo. Joseph A. Sabourin, 2222 Blackmore St., Sag­
inaw, Mich. Louis Schirm, 2222 Catalina, Burbank, Calif. Joseph J. Shcrer, 4603 N. iforris Blvd., Mil­
waukee 11, Wis. John G. Tobin, 1324 Hungerford St., Long 
Beach 5, Calif. Edward F. AValsh, 351 Maple Ave., Elmira, N. Y. Recently Sam McQuald sent me an . announce* 
mcnt of the birth of his daughter. However, my own daughter proceeded to demolish the announce­ment card—and with it went the vital statistics. How about another copy, Sam? 
Of the eighteen names listed above, I hold hopes of receiving eighteen replies—post cards, at least. Why not send that card right now! 
IVc learn that John £. FInntgan, *43, is a First Lt. in the United States Marine Corp. His address is Headquarters Squadron MAG 15, M.C.A.S., £1 Toro, Santa Ana, California. 
Prayers of (^^iss mevEAicrs arc requested for Dr. Nick Gulyass}*, seriously ill in Mars'mount Hospital. Georgetown University this summer conferred an 
M.D. degree on Neville Walsh. 
BIRTHS To Dr. and Mrs. Nicholas Gulyassy (Garfield Heights, O.), a daughter, Anna Marie, April 20. To Mr. and Mrs. John B. Powers (Forest Hills, 
X. Y.), a son, John Gannon, April 24. \Sl.i 9J^. To Mr. and Mrs. Kent Sturm (Chicago), a son, Quentin Charles, Jr., June 21. 
To Mr. and N!rs. Robert C. McKahan (Evans­ton, III.), a son, Donald Craig, July 22. 
Your class secretary', 
JOHN L. WIGGINS, 6442 Latta Street, Dallas 17, Texas 

1944 
Except for the saving letter of Vincc Duncan there would be no column this issue. Vince's last-minute communication reads in part 2a follows: 
'*I recently received an invitation to Joe Pons' wedding in Baltimore. I understand Al Swann is the proud father of two children and is now living in Los Angeles, California. Last year I attended the S.M.U.-Notrc Dame game in Dallas and had quite a time with Fat KOey and Dan Fcrfey, among other lads." 
And from heri; Vince leads into a suggestion for a reunion of the corps of '44 at the Michigan State game this season. It is a little late for such maneuvers and—take my word for it—the efforts in­volved are seldom successful and never appreciated. Howe\'er, any interested parties may contact Vincc at 9W/2 Main Street, Mt. Vernon, Illinois, and take it from there. 
Late news bulletin, several months later: 
From St. Louis, Joe Costello reporting: *'I*m tak­ing a residency in Internal Medicine at the Jeffer­son Barracks V. A. hospital. Gerry Haddock is in the same gtoup. Ditto Byron Watts, who is pur­suing Radiology. BIH Kestocr and George Mabc are doing further work in Internal Medicine. Al Klippel is at Cit>- Hospital in surgery, as is Al RepeCCo. Bob Braman £5 working as assistant to Dr. Greyson Carroll in G. U.*' 
From Gccwge Charters: ^'Please note the fJiange of address to 85 Carolina St., Lebanon, Oregon. I have been transferred hercr from West Linn, Ore­gon, by Crown Zellerbach Corporation to become Plant Engineer of the paper mill in this town. 
"Reference your list of missing persons: Mike Stepovidi is living in Fairbanks, Alaska. Learned that from him in person six months ago. Just F^rfoanks, Alaska,, will reach him. 
**Will you please send the most recent address cf Lt. R. J. Martma?"—Gladly: 744 So. Florida St., Apt. 3, Arlington, Virginia. 
Two men have switched to the class of '44: Joiepli T. Malioa, of Ashtabula, Ohio; Charles J. Rogers, of Oak Park, Illinois. 
Fifteen men have recently changed address. D*nD us a line for their new address; they might l>e living right in your neighborhcx>d. Lawrence Ampos, WiHian Binet, John BhllMip, Robert J. Byrnes, John 
F. Christman, FranUin Edt, Daniel Hagcr, Jolin Heriibr, Engne J. Kdley, Joba Pedrotty, Gcofj^e Powers, Cbaries Raley, L. W. Reynolds, Lawrence Siabl, MandeH Zicglcr. 
35 
Leo Budugnanl announces a partnership in law with £ugen Greener, Jr., in Memphis. Joe Gall graduated June 12 from Georgetown Law School. And EKdc Biydgcs has opened his \sw office at Vir­ginia Beach, Va. You can write htm at 18th St. and Atlantic Ave. 
Austm IL Sharp got his M.D. from St. Louis U. and Ed Moi^aii got one from Tulane this summer. Felix McPariand was granted one from IVestem Reserve. 
MARRIAGES Miss Rosemary Schulz and Dr. ^Vllliam J. Gilles­pie, June 10 in St. Louis. Afiss Margaret Crc5s>' and Paul J. Swain, July 8 in South Bend. Miss Georgia Cavcncss and Boijamin J. Afammina, July 1. Their home address is 216 Hampton Road, Benton Haibor, Michigan. 
BIRTHS To Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Helbring (MiK^'aukce), a daughter, Mary Pat, July £, To Jkfr. and Mrs. Tbomas E. Kerrigan (Voungs­town, O.), a son, Patrick, July 1. To Mr. and Mrs. Eari R. Englert (Louisville, Ky.), a son, Mark Thomas, Aug. 18. 
your class lecrctary: WtOiam F. Talbot, 300 ^Um St., .Apt. 5-F, White Plains, N. V. 
1945 
During the weekend of June 9-U the class of '45 held its 5-year reunion on the campus. The highly unified group enjoyed a fast whirl through banquets. South Beod hotels, campus athletic programs, and old-fashioned bull sessions. The class was first feted as special guests b>- the President's Class—1920— at the LaSalle Hotel. Father Ca\-anaugh, Sherwood Dixon, "Red" MiDer, John Balfe and Father Pat Haggerty, all of the class of 1920, were some of the speakers. 
The class of '45 wishes to take this opportunity-to thank personally every member of the class of '20 for making that night one of the highlights of the weekend. The dinner, and especially the lobster 
•was all delicious. 

Saturday saw the group visiting old campus haunts, favorites such as the Grotto, the Rockne, the Hud­dle, the various college buildings, and of course, Carticr Field. Old acquaintances of "profs," class­mates and priests were renewed, and a brisk swim in the pool cooled many off after the 18 holes of golf. Still others preferred the quiet walks around the lakes, or the swimming by the Boathouse. Saturday evening the big Alumni Banquet topped a perfect day. The speeches, the dinner and the unexpected arri\'al of former classmates and old buddies added to the fun of the whole weekend. After dinner the class met downtown and made the local rounds, somehow getting mixed in with—and becoming a part thereof—of a highly spirited Elks convention at the Hotel LaSalle. Some of the '45ers seen around were Jim Retter, Chuck Sartorc, \^c e Gushing, Brodc Lyndi, Edw-ard LaRocque, Dave Cartu-ri^t, Mike Gary, HaiT>' Ryan, Jim Donnelly, 
Joe Incc, Frank Kent, John Fleaka and many others. Joining the group were such well-knowns as Dick Mnrphy, Frank Mitchell, Tom McGrath and Mr. Frank O'Malley. 
The quiet and impressive Sunday Jifnss closed officially the reunion weekend. During the week­end one thing was voted unanimously: that the 10­year reunion of the class of '45 will be one of the largest, never-to-be-forgotten weekends on record. There are four years and a few months of planning ahead. Toward that end this '45 colmnn will be dedicated; your secretary will not rest until we are all—tlie whole '45 class—seated together at dinner in the LaSalle Hotel sometime around 8 p.m. in early June of 1955. 
DID YOU KNOW THAT: Godfrcj- Bremer and his wife, Mary, have gone to live in California nhere Godfrey is going to attend lau* school . . . that Harry Ryan made all 18 holes (several of them under par) during the reunion . . . that Paul W. Smith and his wife, Elisc, arjc expecting a little visitor around January. They arc in Decatur, Georgia, and proudly awaiting the first addition . . . that all of the men of the class of '45 were swell to see again and all were just as full of life and devilment as when **quiet" students . . . that this column hopes to receive items from you for this section, so please wxitc. 
^{AILBAG—**Letters-From" Dept.: From Harry Ryan: "The campus is in w*onderfuI shape and I was surprised to see all the new construction. It ^vas swell seeing all the fellows at the reunion, although I \fould have liked to have seen more of "the old familiar faces." 
From Da\-e CartH-rigJit: "The campus was as beautiful as ever. It was good to see several of the priests and professors I used to know. I had a real good time, Al. It was too bad that not more of the old Dillon gang and the buddies from Breen-Phillips did not come to the reunion." 
From Chuck Sartore: "My trip home by car was uneventful, but I sure had a hard time keeping my eyes open that Sunday after the reimion week­end. I wouldn't have exchanged anything for our reunion, and you can bet I'll be at the next one too. I sure enjoyed being with some of the old gang and meeting several of my best friends that I hadn't seen in a long time. I had hoped to see Bill Wrapc and some of the Breen-Phillips fellows of the summer of 1942." 
From Brock Lynch: "It was wonderful to see the *on-the-campus family' of Vetville. the bigger in­terest in ND's Graduate School, the Art Depart­ment's statues on most of the buildings, and the new fire-house. I had a ^v•onderiul time at the reunion talking to Dr. Baldinger of the College of Science; also Don Ltmdergan {'46) ph^-sics; Fr. John Gal­lagher, music 
"Somehow I missed seeing Joe Ryan, English. On Sunday I explored Vetwile and nearly got stam­peded by the younger generation." 

From Jim Retter: **Thc new residence hall, Far­ley Hall, is one of the nice additions to campus life. Let me tell you that it was swell to experi­ence the friendly *hellos' of the fello\%-s you pass on the ^valks. The banquet speech by Father Cav­anaugh %v'as tops! 
"I missed Chuck Madden, Ray Baddaur, John Dockweiller, Joe Haggar, Byron Martin and Bod Malone at the reunion, along with Bob OToole, Frank Pendar%is, Dick Sayers and Bill Waddington." 
'45 CLASS SPOTLIGHT: Each issue this column will spotlight one of the members of the class of '45 ivith a fairly complete resume of his activities since graduation. If you have any ideas whom you would like to sec spotlighted, drop me a card. The next issue of the ALUMNUS will carry the first resume of one of our classmates. 
YOUR SECRETARY REPORTS: Tliere is only one reason for haring a class secretary, and that is to provide the class with news about itself and about its members. He believes that there are no holds barred in getting such news from the indi­vidual. He will use force if need be to get newsl Victims ^vill be gouged, burnt, kicked, scratched or pestered until they provide the news that is sought. 
In short, YOU are of primar>' importance to the rest of the class. Where you work, what you are doing, ^vhcthcr you arc married, how many children you have, and in general, ANYTHING about your­self, is of utmost importance to all of us. So wTite me soon. 
LOST & FOUND DEPARTMENT: We do not have the correct address for the following people as m:ul to them has been unanswered. Will they please communicate with me as soon as they read this? Vince Gushing, Edward I/aRocque, Alike Gary, Jim Donnelly, Joe Ince, Frank Kent and John Fleaka. If anyone knoxv-s the correct address of any of them please drop me a card. We'll have more nc^vs for your next issue. 
Ray A. Mazza, Jr., received-a Doctor of Medicine degree from Jefferson Medical College (Philadel­phia) , at Jciferson's summer commencement. 
MARRIAGES 

Frank X . Pendarvis and Miss Edna Margaret Roacli in Houston, Aug. 26. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. ^VUliam Clemency (Brooklyn), a son, ^Villiam, Jr., July 23. To Mr. and Mrs. Jack Rumbach, a son, John Albert, July 30. To Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. X. ^^ail, a son, Thomas Alichael, Aug. 27. 
Your class secretary: Al Lesmez, 61-56 82nd Street, Elmhurst, New York. 
1946 
5-YEAR REUNION June 8, 9, 10, 1951 Father Michad J. O'Connor, who got an M.A. In English from the University in 1946 is one of 20 missionary priests of the MaryknoU Order leaving for overseas duty this summer. He will join the facult>* of Lingan Uni\*ersity in Canton. Father O'Connor is the first Maryknoll missionary assigned to China since it was occupied by Communists. 
Another Notre Dame doctor makes the grade as Doo TtArr b granted an M.D. degree at Western Rescr\'e University. 

MARRUGES Miss Jane Collins and Frank J. Sdiirack, Sept. 2 in Canton, Ohio. Miss Elizabeth Knapp and William E. Slowey, Aug. 12 on the campus, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
BIRTHS To Dr. and Mrs. Robert E. Murphy (Dallas, Texas), a daughter, Kathleen Marie, July 8. 
1947 

When in Chicago in August ran into a few of tlie boys from there—Mark Cronin, Bob OToole, John Caron, Jim O'Rourke. Also Jun McGourt, his wife; and Doe and Dave Champion. 
Had a note from Bill Howe announcing birth of a boy in July . . . has been named James Cyril. Bill and his wife Lillian are living in Milwaukee, Oregon:—address: 4025 Monroe Street. 
And Jim Sheridan came through in fine style with a long, newsy letter which follows. Thanks very much for all the latest, Jim. 
"Once again it's time to sit down and give the doings of some of Long Island's class of '47—and thereabouts. 
I'm still in real estate, Joe, plugging away more than e%'er what with the birth of an 8-lb. girl, "Cara," Friday, July 21, for inspiration. She is a little beauty! 
Recently became sales manager of the Company's main oflke. The experience is proving invaluable. However, it is hard on the stomach. Used to worr>' only about myself making sales, now I have to worr>* about a dozen others. 
Before I get too far off the subject of births, congratulations are in order for Charley Koegler and his wife; the proud parents also of a daughter. . . . Don't fail me, Joe; put this on record. Charley owes me a tenner for arriring at the wire almost a week too late. Kfust see if he wants to make it a standing bet. 
Speaking of Charley, he's taking Notre Dame with 

' him. As one of the top brass in Wass Motor Sales Inc., he has Jade Dillon and Jack Wolfe (a father a^^n, for the third time—won't make any bets with him) as side-kicks. 
Don't see Joe Dittridi, the big plumbing supply man, as often as we would like since he is wearing the socks knitted by a judge's daughter. Must be really smitten for it has been rumored that he at­tended a card party sponsored by Democrats. View­points sure crhange with age. 
John Dunleavy and his wife, lii'ing in Brooklyn, arc looking for a home on the island. John is still with the export di\-ision of U. S. Rubber. . . . Jim Atkimon, "the old redhead" recently married, is living in Ozone Park. Jim is usually the organizer in any of our frequent get-togethers. . . . Saw Tom Mangan take his walk down the aisle just a few weeks ago. At the wedding I was glad to see Dave Curtain, Bill Dougherty and Eddie Chnte. Jade CVl'f***^'* is working on a big promotion scheme. The first step is lunch with Arthur God­frey. Let him eat hearty! . . . Despite the dis­tance apart, George Conway and Kevin Carley are frequent beer drinking companions. 
Manage to see the men mentioned above, and more, quite often. Somebody is always coming up with an idea at the Notre Dame meetings. It seems too, as you might have gathered, that wc are going to a wedding every other week. The next step I siqipose is a round of Christening parties. Joe, this is the time for you to make that trip to New York. 
Racking the memory for more news but unable to dig up anything more. Will keep you informed of the actirity here regularly from now on. 
You're doing a great job, Joe. Take care of yourself. 
Richard J. Dedi, St. Petersburg, Florida, is heading his own construction firm three years after leaving the University with a Civil Engineering degree. Dick, married in January of this year to Catalina Panayotti, lives in a Decb-built home at 1444 Fifteenth St. 
Dick daims he has guided the construction of over $1.3 million in houses and is "only getting started." , 
Attgclo Bertdli, called the "Springfield Rifie" by sports writers and some unprintable names by his opponents, will not play with the Philadelphia Eagles this year. An injur>' forces him into the coaching ranks, and he will coach the Paterson, 
N. J. team, farm property of the Eagles. 
Jim Murphy, AB '47, has resigned as news editor at ABC, Chicago, to join the public relations staff at American Legion National Headquarters in In­dianapolis. (While on campus, Jim was an English major, a member of the Wranglers, and collab­orated with Ed Casliman on the script of "Meet the Missus.") 
MARRIAGES Miss Dagny Lencn and Arthur M. Diamond, June 18 in South Bend. Miss Aline Wilson and Alo>-5tus L. Kuntz, June 10 in New Orleans. Miss Genevieve Lebrowski and Dr. Leo A. Strut­ncr. Junrr 17 in Bayonne, N. J. Miss Elaine Trahms and John T. Rice, June 24 in Louisville. Ky. Miss Mar>' Elizabeth Clear>" and Dr. John *S. Stehlin, Sept. 16 in Milwaukee. 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Mar>' Jane Maguirc and Joseph M. BJTHC III. 

BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Frank Cacdapaglia, Jr. (Wash­ington. D. C.) a daughter, Man' Catherine, June 2. To Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Carlson (Chicago). a son, Barr\* Joseph, June 29. To Dr. and Mrs. Robert T. Terr\- (St. Louis), a son. Kevin McQuade, July D. To Mr. and Mrs. Dick VandcrWegan (Sacra­mento), a daughter, Mar\- Elizabeth, May 14. To Mr. and Mrs. James C. Sheridan (Port Wash­ington. N. Y.), a daughter, >tarv- Cara. July 28. To Mr. and Mrs. Jerome W. Wayno (Dearborn, Mich.), a son. their second. Thomas Michael, Aug. 2. To Mr. and Mrs. John J. Myers (Dclphos, Ohio), a son, Joseph Paul. .August !J. To Mr. and Mrs. Bernard A. Bannon (Fort Wayne, Ind.), a son. Patrick Jo.scph. Sept. 9. 
DEATHS Will-am P. Dclancy, May 10, of a cerebral Inrmorrhagc. 
Your class secretary-: Joseph D. Usina, 219 South Scott St., South Bind, Indiana. 
1948 
Frank Knecland, living now in Rockford. 111., has been made special agent in Northern Illinoi.s for the American Insurance Co. of New Jt-rsev. His address is 2219 Melrose St., Rockford. 
Tom Foley left a position with Vincc D2 Course>'*s Dair\' Products in Oklahoma City to team up with Joe Reutz, *38, at St. Mar>"*s of California. Tom will be head basketball roach. 
From Dr. John Culligan (interning at the Gradu­ate Hospital «f the University of Pennsylvania) with an assist from Dean Baldinger of the Science School: 
"Thought you might like to know what some of my classmates are doing. Bob Daschbach is intern­ing at St. Mar%''s Hospital. San Francisco: John Olinger is doing same at Harper Hospital, Detroit; and Sheldon Fellman is at University Hospital, Ann Arbor (Michigan) and plans to go on in surgcr>'.'* 
Comes word from Matt Pinter that, armed with an M.A. degree from Michigan State, he is now lined up with a teaching position at St. Vincent's. Latrobe, Fa. 
Chuck DcGalen is with the Ford Motor Co. in Dearborn, Mich., in their Personnel Dept. Herman A. Zitl*s new address is the Dayton Products Co., Warren at Apple. Dayton. Ohio. 
MARRIAGES Miss Martha Jo Harper and John (.Ave Maria) Defant, Aug. 12 in Niles. Miss Gertrude Kazmieneak and Robert £. Kcrger, in South Bend, May 21. Miss Barbara Jean Daly and Francis X. Duggan, in South Bend, May 18. Miss Elizabeth Lehncr and Tom Robinson, iii Chicago. BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Jamrs P. Walsh (Valley Stream, 
L. L), a-son, Michael Scan. To Mr. and Mrs. >Villiani B. Ball (Svw York City), a daughter. May 22. 
To Mr. and Mrs. James Welter (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.), a son, Douglas, Aug. 15. 
Retires as Track Coach 
Elvin R. "Doc" Handy, who had been track coach at the University since 1942 resigned this summer to enter private business. 
Holder of a Ph.D. degree from Iowa University, Handy also taught physical education courses at the University. He succeeded to the coaching job when Bill Mahoney was inducted into the U. S. Navy. 
"Doc" is succeeded by Alex Wilson, *32, one of the best middle distance stars ever developed at Notre Dame. 
Alex takes over after 18 years at Loyola of Chicago where he was track, cross country and swimming coach. As a trackman himself Alex competed in the 1928 and 1932 Olympics. His best performance was in 1932, when he fin­ished second to Bill Carr. 
A native of Montreal, Alex was dis­covered and developed by the late John Nicholson. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Bob Echcnrodc (Columbus, O.). a daughter, Susan Theresa. Aug. 7. To Mr. and Mrs. Onillc E. Dunn, Jr. (Dayton, O.). a daughter, Marv' Kathleen, August 22. To Mr. and Mrs. Leo B. Kunkel (Clifton. .\. J.). a son, James Michael, July •-. 
Your class secretar>': Herman A. Zitt, Dayton Products Co., Warren at Apple, Dayton, Ohio. 
1949 
Carl Apone has been appointed to a teaching-public relations position at St. Mar>-'s (Across Niles Road). He will also direct publication of the stu­dent publication. "Static." 
John Tiemcy is located in South Bend. too. He's ^.ssistant manager of the district for Great I^kes Distributing Co. Herb Valker has just nailed down a Master's from Michigan and starts this month in Pittsburgh with Reliance Life Insurance Co. in their actnarial department. 
Bill • Murphy went into graduate work this sum­mer, too, and will wind up with a teacher's cer­tificate in math and English after a course 'uf study at Purdue. Bill had been assistant football coach at South Brnd's Central Catholic for the past four years. 
Two '19ers graduated as MD's this summer from St. Louts U. They arc JIH lUddngHoa and Jaha 
R. Ridsc. Aftother, Herb Lcc, got an MD degree from Loyola in Chicago. 
Leo Baiahont spent the sununcr touring Europe with a team of collegiate all-stars that opposed the Harlem Globe Trotters. 
Joe Griffin requests your prayers for his mother who' is quite ill. 
Edward J. Kicsling writes that his son, .Oatis J. KiesUagy '49^ left Aug. 8 with the First Marine Div^ion for the far east. Curt catered f^otrc Dame the summer of H5 and joined the Navy V-12 unit here in the fall. He completed his flight train­ing at Dallas, Texas, in 1946 and returned to Notre Dame to resume his studies. He graduated with honors in Political Science in June, 1949. His post­graduate work was taken at the University of Chic^o and was then employed with the U. S. Rubber Co. He would appreciate hearing from friends and those he worked with in Catholic Action and Concord Magazine. 
Faul W. BotlcT wri:es his new address: Cpl. Paul 
W. Bailey, 36,443,768, Hqs. t Hqs. Sq. W,A.D.F., Hamilton Field, Hamilton, California. 
ENG.AGEMENTS' 

Miss Janet Margaret Worth and Ensign Allan S. 
Miller, who is on active duty at the present time. 
Miss Valerie R. Hemitz 2Uid Albert Ifllander, Jr., 
now in the law school at Notre Dame. 
MARRIAGES Miss Marguerite Schcibclhut and Edward Dwycr Simmons Aug. 12 in Mishawaka, Indiana. Miss Ann Barbara Winkicwic and Walter M. Marut, Aug. 19 in South Bend. Miss Nanc>- Williams and James J. Dougherty, June 6 in St. Louis. Miss Helen Marie Orpcn and Robert J.Ucmcr , May 22 in Fall River, Mass. Miss Mary Katherine Reppen and James R. Kdly, June 11 in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Miss Lenorc MacPhec and John C. Fogarty, June 29 in St. Paul, Minn. Miss Virginia Thcrese Vanderbosch and Bernard Jofcn Powers, July 29 in South Bend. Miss Lois Early and Thomas T. Adams, Sept. 16, in Our Lady Chapel. Notre Dame. Miss Joann Nockek and George C. WIttericd Aug. 19 in Sacred Heart Church. Miss Marie Mondello and Martin A. Maniscako Sept. 17 in Port Arthur, Texas. Miss Margaret Petross and Jchn R. (Pep) Kuelli Sept. 16 in Sacred Heart Church. Miss Frances Bickel and Janaes K. MiUer Aug. 12 in South Bend. Miss Lillian Toth and Frank J. Fabey Aug. 2 in Sacred Heart Church. 
BIRTHS 

To Mr. and Mis. WilHam J. Leonard (Tulsa) a son, Thomas Reed, May 30. 
To Mr. and Mrs. M. Bruce (Universitr Fhocov rapber) Harian a daughter, Linda Jean, July 14, in South Bend. 
To Mr. and Mrs. John Consdinc (Cleveland) a daughter, Maureen. July 24. 
Your class secretary: John P. Walker, 133 South LoSalle St.. Chicago 3, IB. 
1950 
Most news of the '30 class comes from job place­ment and the Armed Ser\'ices. To start with: 
Bill English works for Kawneer Co., in Ntles, Mich. Ernie A. Houston, Jr. is working for Ren* shed-Mason Co.. Detroit. He lives at 4337 Chal­mers. Detroit. 
Dick Rosengarten, Director of Public Relations and Personnel at St. Vincent's Hospital, Indian­apolis. Joe Falica has started in the construction business with J. J. Wuellner and Son, Alton, III. Tom Martin of Detroit is there in real estate. Bill Gordon to Schenectady for 90-day training in Gen­eral Elcctric's Chemist Training Program. 
John O'Rcillr* now in Lincolnwood, III.,, b an ••ngineer trainee with the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois. Elmore Smith, with Harcourt, Brace Co., as a textbook agent starts the netv sclioolyear assigned to Harcourt's Chicago territory. 
Mark down that Gene Thilmau, a native South Bender, is still going native and working in South Bend for General Tire and Rubber Co. Ed Btggert is staying in his home town, too—Columbus, O.— to work for BattcUc Memorial Institute. 
Clavs Valrdicioriaii Tom Sherirr ha.- started in the- accounting Mxtion i>f tin-Sew Drparturt- Co.. Bristol. Conn., and Dick Kcmpner has moved to Dflroit to he closer to his work with Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. He's living at 48r>9 Ivanhoe. Detroit 4. and uill welcome news of classmates. Tom McGuirc is at 605 S. Peoria. Dixon. III. He's workinj; for the state highway department there. 
And here are the '50 graduates who went on extended active duty with either tlie Marines or the Na\-y: 
2nd Lis. Jack Courtney. Bcb Gawne, Lou I^uro, and Walt Murphy. U. S. Marine Corps. 
Ensigns on active duty with the Na\y are: Bill Bradley, Donald Buscck, Stephen Calicnta, Victor Chaca, James Crcramer, James Curran, John Fcrr>', August Gentilucci. Pcicr Gross, Edward J. Kelly, Kenneth Lisy, James J. Mahrr, Jr., Richard J. .McGoIdrick. Allan S. Miller, Charles .\L Mouch. Jr., John P. P;-ar.ke:i, Rufus U*. Ranch, Jr., Fran­cis J. Richards, John J. Ry-an, Jr., Ronald J. San­ford. John W- Thcmion, B:mard L. W'eigand. 
Only two of ilie Nav-.- have sent back addresses, and each would Iil:e tt> hvar fn>m the Half-Centur>' Cla-s. Jim ^Llhc^ can lie written to as follows: 
Ens. James J. Mahcr. Jr., USS Dyess. DDR 880. c^o Fleet Post Office. New York. N. Y. Ronald Sanford i- on the carrier Saipan. His official ad­
•Iress is Ens. Ronald J. Sanford. USS Saipan. CVL 4il. c/o Fleet Post OfTice. New York. New York. 
Names of last year's f(M>tl)all greats that ouglit to make news this fall on pro teams will be of interest. <>f course. t(» all football fans but particularly to their classmates of '50, 
Here is the latest rundown <m uho slioald be playing \\here: 
I.eon Hart, Detroit Lions; Ernie Zaiejski, Chicago Bears: Erril Sitko, San Francisco '49ers: Larr\" Coutrc. Green Bay Packers: (Coutre was drafted but last time we looked had not signed) Frank Spaniel. Washingttm Redskins; Jim Martin, Cleve­land Browns: Mike Swistowicz, Neve York Yankees: Steve Houdak, Pittsburgh Steelers: Gus Cifelli, De­troit Lions, but like Coutre he was drafted but has not yet signed: Bill Wightkin, Chicago Bears. 
Six of last year's varsity were on Dr. Eddie .An­derson's Ali-Star Collegians that took tlie Phila­delphia Eagles at Soldiers' Field in Chicago .Aug 10. 
Kevin Christopher O'Shea. brightest Notre Dame cage star in a decade, signed with the Minneapolis Lakei> of the National Basketball .Association. O'Siiea was picked on several .AII-.American teams «hile still a sophomore, and is the holder of several all-time scitring records. He is married and the father of one child. 
Jim Fisher. "50 (June), has accepted a graduate assistancesliip at Holy Cross College and hopes to receive his M.S. in Cheniistr>' there. 
Joe Herrington writes: 
'"I've accepted a beginning position on the C'»i>v desk of the Indianapolis News, starting work on September 4th. It will be excellent experience as long as Tni a civilian. Since I'm a member of the Indiana National Guard that may not be too long." 
John Palmer is going in business in Br>-an. Ohio. »iih a public accountant. He has an 8-room house and his family includes four rhildrcn. 
Bob Porter is in the Interior Decorating Depart­ment of the Marshall Field & Company in Chicago. 
Bob Schell (Jan. '50). from LaCrossc. Wisconsin, is employed at the Chicago plant of the Edwin I. Guthman Co. 
Charley Ward, '50. is working in Detroit, Mich., for the .American Blower Corporation wlicre John Brcnnan, '27. is manager of the Hydraulic Coupling Division. 
From Jamaica we hear that Don Zwerski thinks highly of that country. Don is with the Frederick Snare Corporation. Contracting Engineers, and his addresv i*. Lydford P. O.. St. .Ann, Jamaica, B.W.I. 
BIRTHS 
To .\Ir. and .Mrs. Charles Hellmuth, a son ise\en lbs.) in Georgetown Hospital. Washimiton. D. C . June 28. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Burke, a son, July 14. 
.MARRLAGES 
Miss Jane Berndt and Zane Trinkley, .Aug. 5 in South Bend. 
Miss Jean StefTens and Leo J. Murphy, June 6 in Saned Heart Church. 
Miss Dorthea Dunkin and John F. 1-ooney, July I in South Bend. Miss Mary Tromboli and Xlctor A. .Melchiorre, .Aug. 26 in South Bend. Miss Jeaiieite De Wispelaere and Louis Cicsielski. June 11 in South Bend. Miss .Alicia Swiderski and Elliott J. Burrell, June II in South Bend. Miss Terese Marie Martell and John M. Deegan, .Aug. 5 in Midland, Pa. Miss Barbara Ann Berr>- and Thomas Henr>* Sag­gau, Sept. 2 in Galesburg. 111. Miss I'hyllis Graham and James W. Obcrfcll, Sept­15 in South Bend. Miss Betty Jane Carr and Wallace Benton Carl, July 1 in South Bend. Miss Rose Mar>- Taylor and Eugene T. Corcoran, Jr.. .Aug. 12 in Laporie. Ind. Miss Mary Catherine Guendling and Frederic J. Coufal, .Aug. 19 in South Bend. Miss Patricia Joan Simpson and Edward J. Hughes, Jr., '51. Sept. 9, in South Bend. 
SY.MP.ATHIES 
To Kevin O'Shea whose father. Mr. Christopher 
O'Shea. died suddenly in Killarney while on a 
two months visit to the land of his birth. 
QUESTIOX (continued from page 8) 
Over the past twelve months these gen­erous contributions have amply compen­sated for inability to allow for deprecia­tion in the Budget. 
Problems of the City Manager 
What does disturb the President and his Council is the realization that, while regular income must be regarded as having just about reached its peak, opei-ating costs will continue to rise. While the prices of foodstuffs and some other items may level off, salaries oi both academic and non-academic person­nel must be periodically increased. (In­cidentally, Chamber of Commerce fig­ures reveal that the University is the fifth largest employer in the South Bend area.) To rising salaries must be added the cost of University contributions to the faculty pension plan, and the pros­|)ect of Social Security pajnnents for all other employes. 
Completion of the new Science Build­ing alone will increase annual operating costs by approximately $125,000. And before it can be completed, $250,000 must be found to furnish and equip it. Furnishings and .equipment for several of the other new buildings will require an additional $450,000. 

Heating plant and water system en­largements and improvements—essential to these and to future building projects —will cost $900,000. This work must be undertaken by next Summer at the very latest, the money raised this year and next. And if it is found to be more economical to generate our own power, an additional $500,000 will be required to make the necessary installation. 
Within the nest two years Notre Dame must alter its sev.-age disposal system to utilize the new facilities that South Bend shall have. This project will cost a minimum of $400,000. Many of these, and of other problems of main­tenance the parent does not ordinarily associate with the cost of giving his son a college education. But has anyone ever run a successful school without taking them into account? 
Little wonder that the "City Manager" should sometimes toss restlessly on his bed' of sleep! 
The .-Vnswcrs to the Problems 
The answers to the University's prob­lems lie with her alumni and other friends. If these iiroblsms are great— and growing, so also is the generosity of Notre Dame's friends and alumni great—and growing. Each year for the past several years the number of alumni and other friends has increased consid­erably. This increase has been rivalled by the increase in the amount of indi­vidual gifts—gifts that compensate for budget deficits, that provide for building needs, that will take care of furnishing and equipping these buildings, of mount­ing operating costs, and eventually of endowment needs. 
One alumnus, one friend tells another about the work that Notre Dame is doing for the youth of America and the world, for the future of America and the world. He tells, too, hov.- all can help further the education of this youth, help guar­antee what this future shall be. And because Notre Dame is doing this work, because Notre Dame has such an attrac­tion for so many different types of people, thousands each year contribute to, associate themselves with, this worth­while effect to the e.xtent of their ability. Remembering this, Notre Dame feels that in the years since her founding, she has never received a small gift, an insignificant contribution. 
Seeing in his mind's eye this throng of friends and associates, each stepping fonvard to offer his aid, the "City iMan­ager" smiles faintly and rolls over for a last time before dropping off to sleep. 
.A.nd as he does so, his attention is captured and held by a sign written in the sky! Outside the windows of Corby Hall up over the i-oof-tree of the Church, the clouds hover low and black. But out­lined sharply against the darkening sky is the lightsome figure of the Golden Lady atop the Dome, thrown into sharp relief by powerful floodlights! 
No need to worry imduly over salaries and food and light and heat bills, so long as the Lady is up there watching over Her "hotel-manager," his employes and his guests. No need to fear for the op­erations of the University so long as She stands guard day and night, in stormy weather and in sunshine, over the Citj' of Notre Dame, the City of Our Lady! 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

reffere-Jfiere'sa ens a 
A gift by 'Will, whether in the form of cash, securities, real estate or physical things, is ar. expression of faith that Xotre Dame v/ill continue to train the ivkolc man — the moral and respon­sible leader of todav and tomorrow. 
Your bequest will provide a necessary part of future Notre Dame education and scr\-e as an enduring memorial to vou. 
For additional information address 
The Univer.si*y of Notre Dainc Foundation Notre Dame. Indiana 
4 
'Qt 

/ hereby ^ive and bequeath to the Universit--: •?/ Notre Dame du lac, an Indiajia corporation, at Notre Dame, Indiana, the sum of S dollars. 
All the rest, residue, and rem.ainder of my estate, both real and personal, I give, devise, and bequeath, to the Universitv of Notre Dame du lae. a corporation, loeated at Notre Dame, Indiana. 
?»»r»*"' 

ror cott-\ direct^
tt.*r:
iiss­

:«^:^rs^^^-^^A
^'^rs^^^rse^ 
dire' 

M-­
1

inc.. tW\eotnP^-,t i^^'e^ecu^-f ;;nouncea\stuo 
of the\dent 

exec«V\^e S2-\coW»^^*l 
„\toda ol *°^.!.\ l^*:

]:4~^Si5iis^^tf'as;a? VunWt^i\oOOat"j , ^^I^ne W_=Jcost oif^^ since\ ^etsincer^eTlW.I
000 "'"• ncd >°„7costs oi • ­
U.oersona^it'tnirt'"''; ai 
.edf'^^'^' 
:eTsitV 
0 

NEEDS: 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c, E.xecutive Vice-President BRE.AKS GROUND for the new Science Building as members of the Science and Engineering Council and faculty look on. From left to right: Father Philip S. Moore, c-s.c. Dr. E. C. Kleiderer, Mr. Earlc Smith, Dean L. H. Baldinger, Mr. Daniel Heekin, Mr. P. C. Rcilly (behind Fr. Hesburgh), Mr. Bradley Dewey, Mr. W. S. Cal­cott, Mr. H. S. Vance, Mr. Britton I. Budd, Mr. Lee Gar\' and Father John Reddington, cs.c. 
y°" one m ! ^^^y "nrX'-^^^^y «me I . ' what,
•ei-er 
^°"-'^h*rt;7:'*-'-yor 

Th. e dec
•='on-...to ,

"•^Present; * denial Recast fo,don,:•nant "your
«=o«nmercial Part of a

^"^ enclosi, 
inter, same. 

Notre Dame's urgent and innnediate needs, which it is hoped may be met through the generous help of alumni and other friends: 
Equipment for the new buildings .$ 630,000 
Expansion of the steam plant, extension of utilities, additions of generators for power.. 1,400,000 
Sewage disposal system .. 400,000 
Excerpts frciin letters (top) sent by a non-alunintis 
Maintenance Building .. 600,000 banker in Chlcaso and (bottom) a non-Catliolic in 
Detroit. Botli arc indicative of interest in and sup­
Total 53,050,000 
port of llie University of Notre Dame. 





