The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 35 No. 4 
May - June 1957 
Janies E. Armstrong, '25, Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37 Managing Editor 
ca> 
.03^ 

CLASS OF 1907. 
\ECN^ 


ALL OF THIS FOR TWENTY BUCKS 


Class Reunion Weekend 

June 7-8-9 

Class of 1907  Alumni Hall  Class of 1932  Lyons Hall  
Class of 1912  Alumni Hall  Class of 1937  Dillon Hall  
Class of 1917  Alumni Hall  Class of 1942  Dillon Hall  
Class of 1922  Alumni Hall  Class of 1947  Morrissey Hall  
Class of 1927  Howard Hall  Class of 1952  Morrissey Hall  
JOHN W. BRENNAN, '27 



Friday, June 7 

General Registration—^Law Building. One fee, $20, will be collected at Tegtstrallon desk covering all general expenditures. 
Class Registration and Room Assignment—vnW be in the halb as listed above. 
Weekend Golf Tournament beginning Friday. 
Class Events Scheduled on Friday Night: 1907—Supper, Morris Inn Terrace. 1912—Supper, Morris Inn Terrace. 1917—Supper, Home of B. J. Voll, 53932 N. Ironwood Rd., 
Soudi Bend. 1922—Supper, Morris Inn Golfers Lounge. 1927—^Buffet, Morris Inn Mahogany Room. 1932—Silver Jubilee Dinner, University Dining Hall. 1937—Buffet, Rockne Memorial Lounge. 1942—^Dinner, Morris Inn Private Dining Room. 1947—Dinner, Lay Faculty Dining Hall. 1952—^Buffet, Vetville Recreation Hall. 



Saturday, June 8 

Class Masses, Class Pictures (morning). Golf Tourney, all day. President's Luncheon for the 1932 Silver Jubilee Class, Lay Faculty Din­
ing Room. Box Lunches for all other classes. Tours—O'Shaughnessy Hall, LaFortune Center, Nieuwland Science 
Building, and other places of interest (afternoon). College of Commerce Discussion of New Program (afternoon). Other Individual College Programs (afternoon). Law Association Meeting in the Law Building (afternoon). Monogram Club Business Meeting in the Morris Inn (afternoon). Annual Alumni Banquet, University Dining Hall (evening). 

Sunday, June 9 

Field Mass in the Community Cemetery. 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, '36 
Honorary President 
J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 President 
PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 
Club Vice-President 
JOHN W. BRENNAN, '27 
Class Vice-President 
JOSEPH E. WHALEN, '29 
Fund Vice-President JAJIES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
Directorsto 1958 
American Blower Corp., Detroit 32, Mich. 
J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 
. 14700 Clifton Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 
PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 
605 E. 42nd St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
JOSEPH E. WHALEX, '29 
Hotel Ft. Des Moines, Des Moines, Iowa Directorsto 1959 
OSCAR JOHN DORWIN, '17 Texas Company 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. EDMOND R. HAGGAR, '38 Haggar Company 6113 Lemmon Avenue, Dallas, Texas EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 174 South Mansfield Avenue Los Angeles 36, Calif. FRANCIS L . LAYDEN, '36 701 College Highway, Evansville, Ind. 


Directorsto 1960 
LEO J. VoGEL, '17 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
RAYMOND W. DURST, '26 
840 Lathrop Ave., River Forest, III. 
JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 
413 Pere Marquette Bldg. New Orleans, Louisiana 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 


114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minn. Chairmen of the 1957 Committees 
J. PATRICK  CANNY  Executive'  
PATRICK  J. FISHER  Club  Activities  
JOHN  W . BRENNAN  Class  Activities  
JOSEPH  E . WHALEN  .  „.  

Foundation, Alumni Fund and Gifts 
FRANCIS L. LAYDEN 
Preparatory School Relations 
JOHN W. BRENNAN 
Job Counseling and Placement' OSCAR JOHN DOR\VIN Inter-Alumni Affairs JOSEPH E. WHALEN 
Prestige and Public Relations 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY 
Religion and Citizenship EDMOND R. H<\GGAR AND 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY .... Nominations FRANCIS L. LAYDEN Budget and Finance 
PATRICK J. FISHER Resolutions 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the PostoBice, Notre Dame, Ind.^ under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 


Present and Former Faculty Members Were Well Known To Hundreds of Notre Dame Alumni 



Six Holy Cross Priests Die in Six Weeks Period 
In the space of six weeks, from late January to early March of this year, death has claimed six Holy Cross priests. Not since the cholera epidemic of 1854 has this band of religious been ,. so greatly bereaved in such a brief period of time. With the exception of ' Father Norckauer, a Bengal missionar)', the other five deceased Fathers were present or former faculty members at 
J Notre Dame and known to hundreds of alumni.' 
Rev. Matthew A. Coyle, C.S.C. 
Father Coyle, who died on Jan. 21, was assistant chaplain to the nuns at 
•S'St. Mary's College and Convent for about nine years up until a few weeks before his demise at the age of 63. He 
i had undergone an operation ten days earlier, rallied briefly, and then sitc­' cumbed to complications. 
Bom in Rhinelander, Wis., Jan. 23, . 1893, Father Coyle spent most of his .. boyhood in Morris, Michigan, from 
whence he came to Holy Cross Semi­
'" nary in 1911. Graduated from Notre Dame in 1918 with a Bachelor of Liter­ature degree (he served as class poet). Father Coyle went to the novitiate and then to Holy Cross College in \Vash­
ington, D. C, for his theology. He was ordained at Notre Dame on June 24, 1923 with five others: Fathers George Holderith, Raymond Clancy, Frank Boland, Leigh Hubbel and E. Vincent Mooney. 
While studying in A Vashington, Father Coyle obtained an M.A. from Catholic University and added another Masters' degree from Yale in 1928. 
He taught at St. Edward's Univer­sity, University of Portland and Notre Dame. He also served for many years as a director of the University Thea­tre at N.D. In 1948, he was assigned to the position at St. Mary's. 
Rev. William H. Moiony, C.S.C. 
The example of Father Molony's en­counter with the ravages of a slow death will be long remembered by his fellow priests and associates who saw him patiently accept the inevitable. For Father Moiony it was the end of a long and active life %vluch at a much earlier stage had been threatened by tuber­culosis. He had overcome this setback and lived to the age of 72 at the tinie of his death on Jan. 24. 
A native of CrawfordsyilJe, Indiana,: Father Moiony entered Holy Cross Seminary in 1900. After receiving a' Bachelor of Literature degree from < Notre Dame in 1907, he began his theo­logical studies at Holy Cross College. In his third year there, he contracted tuberculosis and was strongly advised to give up his studies and go to Texas' to regain his health. Appalled by the, prospect of an indefinite delay of his ordination. Father Moiony begged to be ordained before leaving for Austin . and his request was granted. His cure was effected during a nine-year stay at St. Edward's U,, where he taught physics regularly and chemistry and math occasionally He also served as Director of Studies. 
Father Moiony returned to Notre Dame in 1919 and taught physics, /or 15 years. In 1934, he was back at St.. Ed's for another nine years, being re­assigned to Notre Dame's physics de­partment in 1943, to remain here for the rest of his life. 

Rev. Maurice J. Norckauer, C.S.C. 
A veteran of 35 years in the Bengal Missions, Fr. Norckauer passed away on February 13, 1957 in the mission hospital at Tejgaon in Bengal, East Pakistan. 
A native of Xenia, Ohio, Father Norckauer entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in June of 1914 at the age of 22, after receiving an A.B. degree. Three years later, he made his final Profession of Vows. Less than a year after ordination he was in Bengal to start his life's work with the Indian natives., 
After a six-year assignment at the post of Narikelbari, he was transferred to Ranikhong, and served as Religious 

. Superior of the Holy Cross missionaries in the Dacca archdiocise until 1932. From that time until his death he re­sumed his active crusade for the Faith. 
A letter from Father Robert McKee in Bengal states: 
"Today (Feb. 14) we buried Father at Tejgaon where he had been pastor for some fifteen years . . . 
(Continued on page 7) 


UND Night Reports 
The ALUMNUS- went to press before alumni club reports were re­ceived of Universal Notre Dame Night meetings. Complete details will be printed in the next issue. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 


Clare Boothe Luce Selected to Receive N. D. Laetare Medal 
Presentation at Commencement Exercises 
Clare Boothe Luce 

Clare Boodie Luce, fonner U. S. am­bassador to Italy, has been named recipi­ent of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 1957. She is the sixteentli woman to receive tlie award which has been pre­sented annually since 1883 to an out­standing American Catholic. 
Distingublied recipients have in­cluded educators, soldiers, diplomats, artists, industrialists, scientists, philan­throphists and statesmen. It is the American counterpart of the "Golden Rose", a papal honor antedating the 11th Centur>'. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesbui^h, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, in announcing the selection of the former Congress­woman, play\vright and author, said: 
"In her brilliant and singularly ver­satile career, Clare Boothe Luce has demonstrated talents and effectiveness altogether uncommon in tlie worlds of diplomacy, politics, the theater, and letters. Since her conversion to Cathol­icism a decade ago, her life and activ­ities have been informed by a faith which she attributes to 'the inexhaust­ible generosity of Almight)' God.' Be­cause few American women, indeed, few women anjfwhere can approach her genius, the University of Notre Dame is proud to award to Mrs. Luce the Laetare Medal, highest honor ivithin its power to bestow." 
The Laetare Medal winner is named each year on Laetare Sunday, tlie fourth Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy in tlie Uturgy of tiie Chureh. General Alfred M. Gruenther, former NATO commander, received the award last year. 
Mrs. Luce is the third woman to be honored with the Laetare Medal in the past fifteen years. Actress Irene Dunne was the recipient in 1949 and journalist Anne O'Hara McCormick was simi­larly honored five years earlier. Other recent Laetare Medalists who have held high diplomatic posts include Jefferson Gaffer)' (1954), Carlton J. H. Hayes 
(1946) and G. Howland Shaw (1945). 
U.S. Ambassador to Italy 
President Eisenhower appointed Mrs. Luce as U. S. ambassador to Italy on February 8, 1953. She held that key diplomatic post for more than three-and-a-half years, submitting her resignation to the President on Novem­ber 22, 1956. Mr. Eisenhower con­gratulated her "on a job superbly done" and expressed the hope "that your re­tirement to private life is only tem­porar)' and that your government may soon again have the benefit of your services." Before leaving Italy, Mrs. Luce received diat coimtry's highest de­coration, the Grand Star of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic, which had never before been conferred upon a woman. 
Mrs. Luce was elected by Connecti­cut's 4th district to serve in the U. S. House of Representatives from 1943 to 1947. ANTiile a member of Con­gress, she became a convert to Cathol­icism in 1946. She was received into the Church on February 16th of that year by Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen, now Auxiliary' Bishop of New York. 
In 1952 slie edited a book of biog-1 raphies of saints, called Saints for Now^ which received a Cliristopher Award. 
Her credits as a p^a)^vright includel "Kiss the Boys Goodbye," "Margin fori Enor," "The Women," and "Abide| with Me." A native of New York City,| Mrs. • Luce b married to Henr>' R.f Luce, well-known publisher. 
TUITION INCREASE IS l EFFECTIVE AT START| 

OF SEPTEMBER TERM;! S 
\ tuition increase of $150 annually; will be elTective at Notre Dame begin­ning in the Fall semester of 1957. In making die announcement. Rev. Ed­
mund P. Joyce, 
C.S.C., execu­
tive vice presi­
dent stated that 
the change in 
the tuition rate 
from $750 to 
$900, is because 
of "rising costs 

Father Joyce jn all areas of , the Univei-sity." Father Joyce said | there have been consistent increases in j faculty salaries during the past few : years and must continue if Notre Dame is to "attract and retain the most qualified people in the "'teaching profession." 
Special Revolving Loan Fund 
In order to help young men of lim­ited means obtain a Notre Dame edu­cation, the University has decided upon an increase in stipends for student em­plo>'ment. Father Joyce disclosed. For example, students now earning $300 per year in campus jobs will earn $360 next year. He said that certain scho­larship grants also will be increased proportionately. 
Father Joyce also announced that the University is establishing a special re­volving loan fund to help upperclass­men finance their education. Loans up to $100 per year will be made to quali fied sophomores, juniors and seniors, he explained, in the hope that no stu­dent presently at Notre Dame will be forced to interrupt his education be­cause of the increase in tuition rates. 
4 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
WSND Will Observe 

ZdUo^ud eomma^iU ''""'"" Tenth Anniversary 
Alumni Secretary 

The problems of the University are sometimes difficult to know because each of us has a tendency to weigh them by our own era. I have just received the Academic Repon for the first semester of 1956-57. Some of the highlights of this report are interest­ing, and perhaps re­vealing, in the light of our appeals for 
Jim Amistron:; 

your help. Undergraduate enrollment was 5,348: Law School ISO; Graduate School 524, 
^ a total enrollment of 6,022. Drop-outs and semester completions, (102), have reduced the present enrollment to 5,742. 
Catholics total 5,318 or 96.7%, a higher number than usual, in the un­. dergraduate schools; the graduate stu­
dents are only 79% Catholic. Only 411 students are married. Only 143 students come from other 
:oun tries. There are 44 members of the yellow race listed, and 28 black. All 48 States and the District of Columbia are represented, along with 
* 36 foreign countries. 
Illinois Leads Enrollment 
' The ten top States, in order of en­rollment, are: Illinois, Indiana, New York, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, 
-• New Jersey, AVisconsin, Massachusetts, and California. Canada leads the other countries, with Puerto Rico second, Hawaii and Nicaragua tied for third. 
Private prep schools supply 4,780 of the present undergraduate and Law » students. 
The report lists 4,094 students on-campus, 68% of the total, with 1,928 ofT-campus. On-campus includes those in the Seminar)', Old College, etc. 
There were only 71 withdrawals dur­ing the first semester, of which 46 were voluntar)', 17 health, only 6 discipline, , 1 militarj' and 1 financial. (The last figure is particularly significant to those 
' of us who feel present costs are high because they exceed the costs of our own era. Ed.) 
Only 85 students were dropped for 

low scholarship in June, 1956, and 24 of these were re-instated on probation. (This statistic is significant in the face of the rumoi-s that Notre Dame has become too rigid in its standards and that the average boy no longer has a chance. Ed.) 
Science Students Attain 82.38% 
The honor list numbered 542 stu­dents, with Science listing 27.5% of eligibies. Physical Education was low with only 8% of its eligibies. Physical Education was also low in its average scholastic standing (78.43); Science was high (82.38); Arts and Letters (81.71); Engineering (81.06), and Commerce (80.14), (indicating that standards are not too la.x, nor is the campus overpopulated with genius. Ed.) 
Chemistr)' and electrical engineering 

lead the majors in the Graduate, 
Schools with 64 each, with education 
third (49). 
Over a 10-year period the total en­

rollment has jumped from 4,235 to 
5,341 undergraduates, and from 319 to 
- 483 graduate students. In the Law School, enrollment is presently down to 149 from the 1947-48 figure of 227, and the 10-year high of 300 (1949-50). 
During the past 10 years the Uni­versity has conferred 12,403 degrees (almost half our total alumni). 
82 Holy Cross Priests on Faculty 
Of 641 faculty members, 371 are lay faculty, 105 religious, and 165 teaching fellows. There are 121 pro­fessors, 117 associate professors, 152 assistant professors and 62 instructors among these. 
There are 82 Holy Cross priests, 2 Holy Cross Brothers, and 21 non-Holy Cross priests on the present faculty. 
Class totals presently are: Freshmen 1483; Sophomores 1339: Juniors 1298, and Seniors 1165. 
There are 35 Departments in the 

4 undergraduate Colleges, and 27 of­
fering graduate work in these Colleges. 
Increase in stature, and with it, in­

evitably, you can see, increase in 
problems. 
The 'pioneer of radio' at Notre Dame student station WSND is now celebrating its tenth broadcasting year. By its carrier-current system radio sta­tion WSND has never been heard in South Bend. Its signal is fed into the. power sj'stem of the university, and it' can only be received in the campus halls. 
WSND is a completely student run organization, AVork is voluntary and is done without pay." The WSND staff is divided into eleven different de­partments, each with its own respon­sibility. The heads of each depart­ment along with the station manager form its administrative nucleus. 
Beside the three broadcasting depart­ments of announcing, ne\vs, and sports, there is much work done behind the scenes. The business, traffic, public re­lations, programming, record, and sales departments must .work together to make the man in front of the mike a success. The engineering and tech­nical engineering departments have the responsibility of keeping the annoimcer on the air. 
^VSND is housed in the tower of the I. A. O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. Two floors of studios and offices give it spacious and mod­em facilities. In . the past year the installation of a new studio and a transmission s)'stem with individual hall amplifiers has given each room on campus a stronger, clearer signal than any other station. 
Advertisers know that to reach the student they must do it through WSND. The station's sales have in­creased each year. Beside the nimier­ous South Bend accoimts WSND has national accoimts such as Lucky Strike, Reader's Digest, North American Avia­tion, Lytton's department store of Chicago, and Sam Goody's Record Shop of New York. 
As a community organization WSND has recently lent a helping hand to the South Bend Junior Achievement Program. The station has given a half hour a week of broadcast time to the high school students of South Bend. These students under the leadership of three ^VSND staff members sell, produce, and put on their own show. 
This operation is a far cry from 
(Continued on page 16) 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
and cunontly Director of the N.D. atc and was active in Moot Court com­Foundation. Bemgan lias participated petition. Benigan received a Law As­as director of the Moot Court and was sociation Scholarehip and will join one of a team of three students who Judge Fahy's stall in August. Downing competed in tlic national Moot Court is a U. S. Nax'y veteran, having been finals held in New York City. Calder in the Aimed Forces during the period has tlie highest average of the senior of 1952-54. His father is a member law class and was associate editor of of Notre Dame's Class of 1914 and is the Lawyer |JubIication. Downing was a director of the N. D. Law Alumni a Moot Court participant. Association. 
Both Gonnan and Calder received undei-graduatc degrees at Notre Dame Prof. Broden Returns to Faculty in 1954 while Berrigan is an alumnus of Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass., Professor Thomas F. Broden, Jr. has and Downing has an A.B. degree from returned to the Notre Dame Law Duke. Gonnan is an officer of Gray's School after a two-year leave of ab­Inn, law student campus oi'ganization sence. He spent these two yeain as a and was also vice president of The member of the legal stall' of the Com­Bookmen. He intends to practice law mittee on the Judiciary of the House in tlic Chicago area following the com­of Representatives. He did excellent pletion of Iiis duties with Justice Clark. work there and made a fine impression Calder is attending tiie Univei-sity on a in Washington. Profe.s.sor Broden was Notre Dame Law Association Scholar­appointed to the Law Faculty in 1930 ship. He was an ofiicer of the Eco­after obtaining a J.D. from the Uni­nomic Round Table as an imdemadu-versity of Chicago Law School. 
Notre Dame law students Robert Gorman (left) and Thomas Calder have recently received appointments as law clerks to federal judges. Calder holds the highest academic average in the Notre Dame Law School's 1957 graduating class and Gorman is editor of "The Notre Dame Lawyer." 
Seniors Appointed Law Clerks 
Dean Joseph O'Meara of Notre Dame's School of Law has announced the appointment of four senior law students as clerks to a group of the nation's most prominent jurists for one-year teniis. 
Supreme Couit Justice Tom Clark has named Robert P. Gonnan, Tis­kilwa. 111., as his law clerk, while Thomas S. Calder, AVorcester, Mass., will serve as aide to Judge Potter Stewart of the U. S. Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, Cincinnati, O. Patrick J. Benigan, Lewiston, N. Y., will join the stall of Judge Charles Fahy, U. S. Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and William T. Downing, Decatur, III., will be law clerk to Judge Roger Kilcy, '23, of the Appellate Court of Illinois. 
These siudenLs were outstanding in academic and extra-curricular activities while studying at the Univei-sity. Gor­man is the editor of the "Notre Dame Lawyer" and was the first recipient of the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Law Scholarship, awarded in honor of Notre Dame's immediate past president 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1957 

Holy Cross Priests 
(Continued from page 3) 

• We have lost a wonderful missionary, a priest to whom many went for advice and encouragement . . . The end came quickly . . . His weak heart and the poison of the typhus which he had, drained all the strength from him in two days . . . On Tuesday night, Father Harrington anointed him. He died at 8:40 Wednesday morning. Feb. 13." 
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C. 
Father Burke, died Februarj- 16, at 

' the age of 53. Since 1953, he had been Steward for the Indiana province of Holy Cross and a member of the Pro­vincial Council. 
A native of Ville-Saint-Pierre, near Montreal, Father Burke won a scholar­
, ship to McGill Univei-sity in Montreal, but declined the offer. Instead, he went to Detroit to work in the Highland Park State Bank where he eventually became teller and cashier. After six-years, he entered Holy Cross Seminary, and was graduated with an A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1932. 
Fr. Burke was a member of the 1936 ordination class, and one year later he received a Master's degree in Econo­mics from Catholic Univei-sity. 
He taught Economics at Notre Dame and became rector of Zahm Hall. He was appointed Prefect of Discipline in 1941 and held that position until he entered the service as a naval chap­lain in 1944. Father Burke was on the battleship "Pennsylvania" when it was bombed by the Japanese. After the war he returned to Notre Dame, and 
- served as vice-president in charge of Business Affairs until 1951. Fr. Burke was in Phoenix, Arizona for two years to regain his health. After returning to Notre Dame, he was assigned to the position which he held until his death. 
In 1955, he visited Rome as an elected delegate to the General Chap­ter, touring Germany, France, Switzer­land, and Italy on the way to the conclave. 

Rev. Philip J. Mitchell, C.S.C. 
A member of Notre Dame's depart­ment of History, Father Mitchell died unexpectedly on the morning of 
• March 1, 1957. He was a native of St. John's, New Brunswick and gradu­ated with an A.B. degree from St. John's College in 1937. He entered the eastern Novitiate of the Congregation at North Dartmouth, Mass., in Novem­ber of the same year. His first vows came a year later, and he made his final profession in Washington after four more years. Because his parents and relatives were living in Canada, he was ordained in St. John's Cathedral, New Brunswick, on June 3, 1943. 
.'Xfter being assigned at the Univer­sity of Portland as well as Notre Dame, Father Mitchell undertook advanced study at Catholic University. .'Vlthough he had been afflicted with an impaired heart Father Mitchell continued to teacii until the day before his death. He was anointed in the Student's In­fiimary and died there after a brief two-day illness. 
After the Solemn Requiem was cele­brated by his brother. Father Paul Mitchell, the body was laid to rest in the Community Cemeterj- at Notre Dame on March 4. 

Rev. Joseph A. Muckenthaler, C.S.C. 
On March 8, Father Muckenthaler said Mass at 6:30 in the chapel of Dillon Hall, ate breakfast at Corby Hall with other members of the com­munity, and then returned to his pre­fect's room in Dillon, where he suffered a fatal heart attack. 
Father Muckenthaler was bom in South Bend in 1898 and entered Holy Cross Seminaiy in 1914. After receiv­ing his A.B. degree in 1923 from Notre Dame, he continued his studies at Holv Cross College in AVashington, 
D. C. The late Archbishop Noll of Fort 
AVayne ordained Father Muckenthaler on June 24, 1927. Others in his class 
ROTC Memorial Mass 
Thirteen hundred .A.rmy, Navy and Air Force ROTC students at Notre Dame participated in a solemn but colorful outdoor Memorial Ser^'ice and attended a Military Mass in Sacred Heart Church on May 5. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. was the celebrant of the Mass, follow­ing the memorial rites in the univer­sity's main quadrangle. During the outdoor ceremonies, which were con­ducted by Rev. Robert AVoodward, C.S.C., director of the Office of Mili­tary Affairs, a wreath honoring all of the University's war dead was placed at the memorial door of Sacred Heart Church. Father Woodward addressed the group of cadets and midshipmen. 
were Fathers Joseph McAllister, Leo 
R. Ward, Leo L. Ward, Frank Cava­naugh, Joseph Brannigan, Casimir Wi­tucki, Walter Conway, Norman De-Grace, and Raymond Murch. 
After four years at the University of Portland, Father Muckenthaler re­turned to Notre Dame, where he spent the remainder of his years, with the ex­ception of a brief period at Catholic University working for a Master's degree which he received in 1938. At Notre Dame, he taught German and served as both prefect and rector at different times. His warmth and friendliness, thinly camouflaged by a feigned gruffness, endeared him to hundreds of students down through the years. 
Father Muckenthaler was buried on March 11 in the Community Cemetery at Notre Dame after a Solemn Requiem Mass. 



NATIONAL DEBATE MEET ATTRACTS 2 4 TOP TEAMS 
Twenty-four of the nation's top col­legiate debating teams competed in the fifth annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament on April 12-13. . 
The collegians argued the pros and cons of this year's national debating topic, "whether the United States should discontinue direct economic aid to foreign countries." 
Among the schools entered were the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa; Augustana College, Rock Island, 111.; Bradley University, Peoria, 111.; Butler University, Indianapolis, Ind.; Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, Ohio; Kansas State University, Man­hattan; Loyola University, Chicago, 111.; University of New Mexico, Albu­querque; Northwestern University, Evanston, III.; and Pepperdine Col­lege, Los Angeles, Calif. 
Also the University of South Caro­lina, Columbia; University of Southern California, Los Angeles; U. S. Air Force Academy, Denver, Colo.; U. S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, N. Y.; U. S. Military Academv, West Point, N. Y.; U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.; University of Utah, Salt Lake City; Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.; Wake Forest College, Winston Salem, N. C ; \Vestem Michigan College, Kalama­zoo; and Wisconsin State Teachers College, Eau Claire. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
" . , . to prepare young men for the priesthood is the task of the seminary; it is the lifeline . . . " 
Seminary Fund Gains Momentum 
by Rev. John A. O'Brien 
[Editor's Note: Rev. John A. O'Brien, aulhor-in-residence at Notre Dame, ad­dressed hundreds of volunteer workers in the South Bend area at the opening of the Moreau Seminary campaign. Notre Dame men everywhere will find his sermon to be stimulating arid thought-provoking. It is for this reason that the ALUMNUS has obtained permission to reprint the text in the current issue. Father O'Brien is inter­nationally-known as an author and lec­turer. He has been at Notre Dame since 1940 coming to this campus after serving as chaplain of Catholic stu­dents at the University of Illinois for 23 years. He is a prolific writer and has published numerous pamphlets, books and magazine articles in apolo­getics, philosophy of religion and edu­cational psychology. Father O'Brien re­ceived an undergraduate degree from 
Father O'Brien 
Viator College, a master's from the same institution and a doctorate from Illinois. JC] 

St. Mary's Lake tlicy erected a log chapel where the Holy Sacrifice of the A long time ago, as men count time, Mass was offered in the presence of a a few pioneer missionaries from France, few white settlers and some Pottowa-Fatlier Edward Sorin, C.S.C. and seven tomi Indians. Then they erected a Brothers of Holy Cross, planted in the small building for the education of wilderness of northern Indiana the youth. Such was the modest beginning Cross of Christ. Along the shores of of the University of Notre Dame and 
the work of the Congregation of tin 
Holy Cross in the New World. 
In the hundred and fifteen yearsi since then the acorn has grown into a mighty oak, with its branches reach­ing high into the sky and spreading in all directions. The four-room school has skyrocketed into a university of national and international renown. The little handful of students has grown into a mighty army of more than five thousand, who come from every state and from many foreign lands. 
Atop the golden dome Our Lady smiles over a campus of seventeen hun-a dred acres studded with sixty-four f stately buildings: they include thirty-4 three chapels wherein our Eucharistic { Lord dwells and the Sacrifice of Cal­vary is mystically reenacted. No won­der it was that our present Holy Father, when he visited here as Cardi-, nal Pacelli, called the campus tlie "City ^ of the Blessed Sacrament." 
In little more than a centurj' the rude pioneer school has grown into a , university that has become one of the Seven Wonders of the Catholic World. , Upon her have fallen some of tlie radi-J ant beauty of Our Lady's countenance ; and some of the shining splendor from I her golden mantle, vesting Notre Dame with a mystical glamour, a bewitching magic and a sort of iridescent glor)', unique among the universities of our land. I 
From her loins have sprung Portland j University, St. Edward's College in Austin, King's College in Wilkes-Barre , and Stonehill College in North Easton. , From her bosom have gone forth ' priestly sons to share with odier mem-^ bers of the hierarchy the leadership of Christ's Church in America, in the' Philippines and in India. From the motherhouse have gone out priests to staff the parishes, to establish missions among the Negroes and Mexicans in Texas, and missions in far-off Bengal and Chile. 
From her busy press goes forth tlie Ave Maria, carrying into thousands of homes the teachings of Christ, while The Catholic Boy brings His tidings to the youth of America. From this center of Catholic life and culture went forth Father Peyton and his staff to carr)' the Family Rosary Crusade around the world. 
Here is a record of achievement for " Christ which is written by the record­ing angel in letters of gold. For a community of but five hundred mem­
8 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
bers it is probably unsurpassed in the history of the Church in America. It has brought joy to the heart of God and made glad the song of the Seraphim and Cherubim who sing the divine praises before the great White Throne. 
Back of all the achievements of Notre Dame and the far flung missions and parishes and schools are the Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers. Their story has been too long unheralded and un­sung. They provide the vital energy for all these worldwide works. And back of them as a powerhouse is the seminar}'. Close the seminary and soon all the activities of the Fathers of Holy Cross will be crippled and ultimately terminated. 
AVhen the power plant supplying electricity to a community falters, the whole city is plunged into darkness. It makes ever)' citizen more conscious of the source, often distant and rarely 

• seen, from which he derives his light and power. So too it is with a semi­nar)'. It stands in the background, yielding the spotlight to all the otlicr activities of the congr^ation, but pro­viding them with power and light and life. The Holy Cross Fathers of the seminary are therefore the men behind Notre Dame and all the other insti­tutions and works of the community. 
In His infinite wisdom Almighty God has seen fit to make His religion hinge upon die priesthood. He could have chosen angels to be His ministers, but instead He chose men. "You have not chosen me," said Christ to His first priests, "but I have chosen you; and have appointed you, that you should go, and should bring forth fruit; and your fruit should remain." They are to continue His work of teaching men His truths, of sanctifying them with the graces of the sacraments, and leading them safely to heaven. 
Of what sublime dignity is the of­fice of the Christian priest who is thus privileged to act as the ambassador and the vice-regent of Christ on eardi! That dignity and grandeur was pro-
Plaques w!U be inscribed for gifts of $500 and more. 
IN MEMORY OF J.4MES X. O'BRIEN 
GIFT OF 
JOHN J. HENNERY 

Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. (left), associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation, and Rev. Paul B. Rankin, C.S.C., superior of Moreau Seminary, look at table' model of proposed new building. Construction is to get underway this spring and cost of the project is estimated to be $3,000,000. 
claimed six hundred years before Christ by Isaias when he said: "How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings and that preacheth peace; of him that showeth forth good, that preacheth salvation, that saith to Sion: Thy God shall reign." No wonder it is that the name which spiritual writers are especially fond of applying to thepnestls"alterCliristus", for the priest is and should be another Christ. 
The Training of Priests 

To prepare young men for such a sublime office is the task of the semi­nary: the most important and respon­sible work that can be given to scho­larly and pious priests. Within those hallowed walls the young man must be trained to put off the old Adam and take on the new, to acquire the mind of Christ and thus achieve the closest possible union with the eternal High Priest Jesus Christ. In this holy cloister the clamorous voices of the world, the flesh and the devil are muted; through long years of prayer, meditation and study the seminarian learns to walk in the footsteps of holy men and to cherish only the company of God and His saints. 
Privileged to live in the midst of the community, though wearing neither the cape nor the cross, I am in a position to bear impartial but willing testimony to the thoroughness with which this sacred task has been, and is being, per­formed. For nearly twenty years I Jiave witnessed young men emerge from the seminary to take their places in the classroom and in the parish as scho­larly and holy priests. They are sources of edification to all of us, as they cany on the proud traditions of Fathers Sorin, Corby and .a host of others. 
In view of the crucial importance of the proper training of priests, is it any wonder that our Holy Father has re­quested that the staff of a seminary be chosen with the greatest care so that the seminarians may learn the secret of hoUness not only from the lectures of their teachers but also from their lives? Is it any wonder that Mother Church wants seminary quarters that wUl en­able theiri to do their work efficiently and to achieve the maximum physical, intellectual and spiritual development? 
Built for a maximum of eighty-five students, Moreau Seminary is now bursting with one hundred and six: two and even three are crowded into a single small room. In August 1958 it will have to accommodate one hun­dred and forty. Hence the need for a new and larger seminary is clamorous, urgent and inescapable. In deciding to 
(Continued on page 16) 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
c ^5?J^'%i^^ 
^tWff /<^ 

Fr. Cavanaugh Named to Commission 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, director of the Notre Dame Foundation, is a member of the newly created Commission on Public Controls in Higher Education whose work is to be supported by the Fund for the Advancement of Education, a subsidiary of the Ford Foundation. The project is being initiated by the Fund at the request of the National Association of State Universities and the Association of Governing Boards of State Universities and Allied Institutions. 
Dr. llilton S. Eisenhower, president of Johns Hopkins University, is chairman of the new com­mission which consists of many prominent edu­cators and business leaders. The group is con­cerned with a definitive study of the govern­mental controls increasingly being imposed on colleges and imiversities. 
"Many educators across the country are deeply concerned with the growing tendency of state governments to impose executive or legislative controls upon public institutions of higher educa­tion," Dr. Eisenhower said in convening the com­mission. "Certainly state officials and the tax­payers of a state have a right to know that the funds appropriated for these institutions are be­ing spent WTsely and frugally, but there is a temp­tation in these times of rising costs of education for political officials to interfere in the free and independent administration of the educational programs for which these funds are provided," he asserted. 
Smith Resigns as Commerce Asst. Dean 
The resignation of Prof. Edmund A. Smith as assistant dean of Notre Dame's College of Com­merce and the appointment of Prof. Thomas P. Murphy as his successor have been announced by Dean James W. Culliton. 
Smith, who has served as assistant dean since 1945, will continue as a faculty member, teach­ing courses in insurance and business adminis­tration. Murphy, who has been director of the commerce school's Program for Administrators since November, 1955, will retain that post along with his new duties. 
As assistant dean of the College of Commerce, Prof. Smith handled much of the administrative detail of Notre Dame's largest undergraduate college in the postwar years. In his teaching and 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
research he has specialized in insurance and labor-management relations. Upon relinquishing his administrative duties. Prof. Smith intends to devote his total efforts to work in these two fields. 
Murphy is a speciEdist in business finance and has been on the teaching staff of the Program for Administrators since 1952. Prof. Murphy was awarded undergraduate and master's degrees by Boston University and is a candidate for a doc­torate at Notre Dame. 
Bradley Is New Asst. Dean for Research 
The appointment of Francis X. Bradley, Jr., to the newly created post of Assistant Dean for Re­search in the Notre Dame Graduate School has been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C. 
Bradley, who is both a lawyer and an engineer, will assist faculty members and departments in securing financial support for their research proj­ects from business, industry, foundations and government agencies. Father Hesburgh said. He will also handle contractual arrangements for these projects and serve as a liaison between university researchers and the sponsoring or­ganization. 
He was awarded a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame in 1939. Returning to the campus after the war, he received a master's degree in mathematics in 1946. He then enrolled in the Notre Dame Law School, receiving the degree of Juris Doctor in 1949. A year later he was awarded a master of laws degree by the Yale Law School. 
Award Established by George W. Stroke 
A new award to be presented annually to the most outstanding Navy ROTC midshipmEui of the Notre Dame senior dass has been established by George W. Strake, Houston, Tex., business­man, according to an announcement by Captain 
T. L. Greene, U.S.N., professor of naval science at the University. 
The award consists of a Naval or Marine Corps officer's sword. Captain Greene said. It will be presented to the senior with the best Navy ROTC record at the traditional class day exerdses. 
Mr. Strake is a member of Notre Dame's As­sociate Board of Lay Trustees and its College of Commerce Advisory Council. His son, George Strake, Jr., is president of this year's senior dass. 
V,'. •i.aiiiiiuiii:,:/ 

THIS PHOTOGRAPH MAY BE REPRODUCED FOR PHILATELIC PURPOSES ONLY. IN BLACK AND WHITE AND EITHER LESS THAN THREE-QUARTERS OR MORE THAN ONE AND ONE-HALF TIMES THE SIZE OF THE ORIGINAL STAMP WHICH IS 0.84 X 1.44 INCHES IN DIMENSION. 
ITITLE 18. DSC. SEC. 504: AND 31 CFR. PART JOO.i 
I A L 
AMERICAN INSTITUTE 
O F 
ARCHITECTS 
1957 

UNITED STATES POSTAGE 
This U. S. stanipj comnicniorating^ the 100th anniversarj' of the American Institute of Archi­tects, has been designed by Prof. Robert Schultz of Notre Dame's department of architecture. 
Prof Schultz Designs Stamp, Given National Prize Award 
A new United States postage stamp, commemorating the 100th anniversar)' of the American Institute of Archi­tects, has been designed by Robert J. Schultz, '40, associate professor of archi­tecture at Notre Dame. 
Postmaster General Arthur E. Sum­merfield has authorized the printing of 120,000,000 of the 3-cent stamps which have already been placed on sale. 
Schultz recently was awarded the $500 first prize for his stamp design in a nationwide competition sponsored by the AIA. Subsequently his design was officially adopted by the Post Office Department. 
In addition to his teaching at Notre Dame, Professor Schultz is engaged in the professional practice of archi­tecture in association with Frank Mon­tana, head of the University's archi­tecture department. They have de­signed several Notre Dame buildings including the university bookstore and the studios of VVNDU-TV on the campus. 
The central subject, which dominates the left portion of the stamp, is com­posed of a modem mushroom type head and shaft superimposed on a Corinthian style capital symbolizing the progress made in architecture during the last centur)'. The word "Centen­nial" is arranged across the top of the stamp and "American Institute of Architects 1957," arranged in five lines, appears to the right of the columns. The denomination "3^ " is placed in the lower left comer and "United States Postage" across the bottom. The style of lettering further reflects the simplicity of line which the artist en­deavored to portray. 
Reveal Story of Lt. Hengel's Death During World War I! 
Lt. Robert L. Hengel, '42, one of Notre Dame's young alumni and a member of the United States Air Force, was killed in combat during World ^Var II. An unusual stor)' was re­vealed recently when Mr. and Mrs. Jose Gaston of Victoria, Los Negros, Philippine Islands, visited the Uni­versity of Wisconsin where Mr. Gaston had attended school many years ago. Lt. Hengel's plane was shot down by Jap fighters and crashed on the plan­tation o%vned by Mr. Gaston. Mr. Gas­ton removed a cmcifix and rosary from Lt. Hengel's body and had intended to send them to Mrs. Hengel, the de­ceased airman's mother, but misplaced the address. 
Twelve years later the Gastons visited the United States and Mr. Gaston, by a coincidence, inquired of the Notre Dame Alumni office if Lt. Hengel had been a Notre Dame student. Upwn being provided this information, he then contacted Mrs. Hengel and gave her the religious articles found on her son's body. 
DR. HINTON, '30, CHOSEN FORPHIBETAKAPPAHONOR 
Henry D. Hinton, recipient of a doc­torate degree at Notre Dame in 1930 and a member of the Chemistry depart­ment staff since 1928, has been chosen for Phi Beta Kappa alumni member­ship by Illinois College. He received a bachelor's degree from Illinois College and a masters from the University of Chicago. 
The formal initiation was held on April 9, commemorating the 25th an­niversary of the chapter's founding at 

I. C. Professor Hinton was selected for membership because of his excellent academic record while a student at Illi­nois College and in recognition of his subsequent distinguished career as scholar, teacher, lecturer, writer and scientist. 
For the past 15 years Professor Hinton has lectured to various clubs and groups in all of the principal cities in this country. He is the author of two books, "General Experiments in Chem­istry" and "Experiments in Chemistry for Engineering Students". He had an outstanding record in World War I with the Chemical Warfare Service and served as an aide to Major Conant, later president of Harvard and U. S. ambassador to West Germany. 
Professor Hinton is a member of the American Chemical Society, is active in numerous South Bend civic organ­izations and is listed in "Who's Who in America". He is married to the former Ella Margaret King and they are the parents of two sons, Robert D., and William H., '56. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 11 
Class Contributions for the First Quarter of 1957 
Clais Number of Contributors 
1900 and before 3 
1901 1902 1 1903 I 1904 3 1905 _ „ 1906 2 1907 . 2 1908 : 2 1909 I 1910 3 1911 _ 4 1912 2 1913 6 1914 6 1915 2 1916 _ 2 1917 9 1918 5 1919 3 1920 5 1921 3 1922 12 1923 14 1924 _ 17 1925 _ 22 1926 . 17 1927 _ 33 1928 34 
1929 - 28 
1930 30 
1931 _ 31 
1932 34 
1933 36 
1934 24 
1935 31 1936 19 1937 19 1938 29 1939 31 1940 50 1941 30 1942 35 1943 33 1944 37 1945 23 1946 18 1947 32 1948 50 1949 89 1950 70 1951 68 1952 „.. 80 1953 :. 56 1954 55 1935 50 1956 ._ 62 
Undergraduates i 3 Hon. Alumni 
Alumni Corporations 10 Gifts in Kind 1 Notre Dame Clubs 10 
1388 
Number of Alumni 
70 13 13 16 24 23 33 21 31 32 29 63 57 60 71 
" 70 67 94 79 62 90 113 173 218 224 311 267 388 452 467 478 526 518 544 543 505 416 452 498 557 643 589 567 566 527 337 301 719 
1054 1391 1157 917 1080 849 991 947 1036 
22339 
Amount Contributed 
$ 775.00 
„ 10.00 10.00 60.00 
10.00 125.00 100.00 100.00 1,055.00 60.00 145.00 265.00 265.00 50.00 60.00 513.00 60.00 60.00 
390.00 160.00 6,660.00 593.51 375.00 1,040.00 828.00 1,517.50 1,335.00 
2,874.00 1,407.50 1,032.00 745.00 739.00 
.568.00 840.00 628.00 382.50 737.00 712.50 1,956.00 453.00 1,050.00 1,110.00 642.50 767.00 252.50 365.79 574.00 
1,679.50 1,124.00 1,111.95 917.00 510.00 454.50 506.00 571.00 259.15 
6,125i)0 7.50 6,415.00 
554,138.90 
. , . A AfeuA Book 
A small book that has had little fan­

fare but big impact is Valiant Woman, 
published recently by tlie Grail Press, 
St. Meinrad, Indiana. 
Edited by Peg Boland (whose hus­band, Joe, has been a nationally known sportscaster for years) with a foreword by Loretta Young, it is a compilation of 15 essays, all written by women. Its theme is acceptance of the AVill of God as a means to finding peace and contentment. 
"Valiant Woman is a cross-section of ever)'-day living by women who live in no ivor)' towers and seldom make the headlines," according to Mrs. Boland. "It is factual as we could make it, with no rattling of rosarj' beads or sticky piety; somewhere in the collection al­most every reader will find himself." 
The book is dedicated to Mary Agnes Boyle, late wife of Andrew Boyle, professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame. Author of The Long Journey, Mrs. Boyle wrote her story while she was dying of cancer. 
Several wives of present and former Notre Dame faculty members are listed in the anthology, including a chapter by Gina O'Brien Manion, (Mrs. Clarence 
E. Manion) author of "The Eye of the Needle." The remaining essays in­clude: The Hidden Gift, by Angela Hamill, (Mrs. William Hamill); A Half Acre of Ground, by Eileen Barrj' Nutting (Mrs. \Villis Nutting); Two Loaves Have I, by Dorothy S. Riordan (Mrs. Robert Riordan); My. Spiritual Will, by Rosaleen Giblin Crowley (Mrs. Jerome J. Crowley, Jr.); The Egg Heads and I, by Eleanor P. Engels (Mrs. Norbert Engels); Three Years in Santo Tomas, by Eve Foss Hoyt (Mrs. Neil Hoyt); The Back for tlie Burden, Helen Cartier ^Vithey (Mrs. Paul ^Vithey); Spiritual Truth Party, by Peg Boland (Mrs. Joe Boland): This Man is My Brother, Katherine Terry Dooley (Mrs. William Dooley); Full Circle Round, Alma Skellig; God's Planned Parenthood, by Jo Geissler (Mrs. Eugene Geissler); My Love is Blind, Correne Flavell Morri­son (Mrs. John Morrison); You Can't Fight Prayer, the stor)' of an alcoholic's wife told anonymously. 
72 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
More Than 300 Coaches And Other Guests Attend Third Annual Event Which Was Under Chairmanship of Harry Monahan, '50 
San Diego Alumni Sponsor Appreciation Night Dinner 
Hailed by local newsmen and radio State University football coach, the and television commentators as one of principal speaker and Morris Frank, the finest sports dinners in the city's humorist and columnist for the Hous­histor)', the third annual Appreciation ton, Texas, Chronicle, as master of Night Banquet, co-sponsored by the ceremonies. ' Notre Dame Club of San Diego and Honored guests were the more than St. Augustine High School, featured 300 high school coaches and adminis­Hugh "Duffy" Daugherty, Michigan trators of San Diego County. More than 550 people attended the banquet which was under the chairmanship of Harr\' Monahan '50, immediate past president of the San Diego, alumni group. 
Sharing the speakers' platform with Daugherty and Frank were: -Most Rev. Richard Ackerman, C.SSP., auxiliary bishop of San Diego, Mayor Charles Dail, officials from the county board of supervisors. Chamber of Com­merce, city schools and county schools and Kenneth Fagans, commissioner of the Southern California Inteischolastic Federation, high school athletic govern­ing body. 
Sports celebrities who joined in the tribute included Ralph Kiner and his wife, Nancy Chaffey Kiner, Ray Boone, Rev. Franklin Held and t%vo men who wrote the records when pro­fessional wrestling was a sport, Jim Londos and Sam Stein. 
Daugherty made the presentation of the trophy to the county's high school football "Coach of the Year," who was selected by a poll of the coimty grid coaches. A trophy for distinguished service to St. AugusUne High School was presented by Very Rev. John R. Aheme, O.S.A., school principal, to 
(Continued on page 21) 

SAN DIEGO—Principals directing the third annual Appreciation Night Banquet were luncheon guests of Very Rev. John R. Aheme, O.S.A., second from right, at St. Augustine High School in a get-acquainted session with the banquet's guest speaker, Michigan State University football coach Duffy Daugherty, third from right, and the master of ceremonies, Morris Frank, columnist for the Houston, Texas, Chronicle, right. Special luncheon guests were a group of high school coaches. Banquet committeemen in attendance were, from left, G. R. Bill, '29, Thomas Carter, '51, and Harry Monahan, '50, general chairman for the affair. ,-' • 
of individual alumni have been hon­ored and respected by the prestige they 
Public Relations Ideas For Notre Dame Clubs and Alumni 
Report Submitted by Association Board 
(The following report was presented to the Alumni Association Board of Directors, at its recent meeting, by the Committee on Prestige and Public Re­lations. Prepared by Joseph E. Whalen, chairman, and committee members John 
W. Brennan and Oscar J. Dorwin, the Report contains many excellent sug­gestions of special interest to all alumni.—JC) 
A popular conception of the term "prestige" could be stated as—^"the ability to command respect and esteem of other men, or other institutions, and to influence others as a result of superi­ority in reputation or of conspicuous excellence in achievements". The term , has a superlative characteristic and connotation. 
The possession of outstanding attri­butes of character and ability, or the accomplishment of noteworthy achieve­ments do not in themselves establish prestige. Others must be informed of and know about these attributes. 
,The media for establishing prestige is public relations. The more effective the public relations—the greater the prestige. 
The University and untold numbers have earned in many fields. It is, however, the opinion of this Committee that the superior ability and noteworthy achievements of large numbers of the alumni have not been recognized in their proper relationship to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 

The present and recent administra­tions of the University have made ex­cellent application of the tools offered through the media of good public re­lations in establishing a greater pres­tige. The dedicated zeal of these un­selfish men is deeply appreciated by the alumni, but too often that appreci­ation has not been articulate—either in word or action. The cause must be further advanced at the "grass-root" levels. That is the responsibility of the Alumni Association and everj' alumnus, worthy of the name. 
The public recognition of the out­standing ability or noteworthy achieve­ments of an individual alumnus has little or no significance to the prestige of the University, nor to the alumni of the Universit)', unless there is a statement of the individual's relation­ship to the University, as an alumnus. That relationship should be publicized. 
Public announcements of corporate 

Members of the Alumni Association Board of Directors met on campus for the annual election of officers. Seated (left to right) Leo Vogel, Sr., Pittsburgh, Pa.; Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, Pittsburgh, Pa.; J. Patrick Canny, Cleveland, O., newly elected president; Joseph L O'Neill, Jr., Midland, Tex., immediate past president and new honorary president; Eugene M. Kennedy, Los Angeles, Calif.; and John W. Brennan, Detroit, Mich. Standing (left to right): Francis L. "Mike" Layden, Evansville, Ind.; John E. Mclntyre, South Bend, Ind.; Edmond R. Haggar, Dallas, Tex.; Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind.; Jules de la Vergne, New Orleans, La.; Oscar John Dorivin, New York City; Joseph E. >VhaIen, Des Moines, Iowa; William E. Cotter, Jr., Duluth, Minn.; James E. Armstrong; and James L. Ferstel, Chicago, 111. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
or personal grants, endowments, gifts, scholarships and financial assistance to the University program should be made at local levels when it is permissible. These announcements have a tend­ency to encourage others in similar action. 
All alumni are deeply indebted to the administrations of the University for continued interest in the welfare and prestige of Notre Dame men and for the unselfish efforts of the Uni­versity in extending its services for the benefit of alumni, wherever possible. 
The alumni are also deeply indebted to the officers and staff of the Associa­
•
tion, and to the editors of the ALUMNUS magazine, not only for outstanding services rendered to alumni, individu­ally and collectively, but also for their enthusiastic efforts and untiring energy' in promoting a greater degree of pres­tige for the University and its alumni 

•
 throughout the world. This Committee has little to offer in the way of new suggestions or recom­


, mendations to this Board. It does, however, feel that a reiteration of many of the aims and objectives of the Alumni Association would not be amiss at this time. 
It is, therefore, the desire of the Prestige and Public Relations Com­mittee to again call attention to many of the policies, suggestions and rec­ommendations to the alumni and local clubs under which the .Association has been functioning and to plead for re­newed interest of all alumni, parti­cularly tlie local clubs, to the end of achieving greater results: 
1.
 That local alumni club secretaries be encouraged and urged to always report, to the Alumni Office, any news stories covering the public an­nouncements of noteworthy achieve­ments, appointments or activities of individual alumni; 

2.
 That, without any feeling of vanity or egotism, every alumnus be urged to send news clippings to the Alumni Office of public announcements of his own personal activities; 

3.
 That all Association members be 



I urged to identify themselves as alumni of Notre Dame in their own biographical sketches, which might be used in' public announcements, introductions and other recogni­tions. The following are actual examples of cases in point:— 
A. (Taken from the Program of the 8th Annual National Conven­tion of the National Association 
of Advertising Publishers): 
Speaker: Mr. R. J. Tieman, 
Sales Promotion and Mer­chandising Manager of Better Homes and Gardens. 
Mr. Tieman, who is a grad­uate of Notre Dame, has been associated wit h Meredith PublishingCompany for many years, . . . etc. 
B. (Local news announcement): Harold P. Klein was elected Director and Senior Vice Presi­dent of the Bank, at die annual Stockholders Meeting today. He has been associated with the Bank since his graduation from the University of Notre Dame in 1926, etc. 

4.
 That the local alumni clubs be en­couraged to develop, from among its own members, a speakers' bureau for the purpose of making quali­fied speakers available to local civic, religious or school groups, to tell the story of Notre Dame; 

5.
 That every alumnus be urged to become active in parish activities and.Catholic .Action projects and to assume his full share of responsibil­ity and action in civic and com­munity affairs; 

6.
 That all alumni be encouraged to establish and maintain cordial re­lationship with the local press, and to assist representatives of the Uni­versity in getting news stories printed which would be helpful to University prestige: 

7.
 That each alumnus be encouraged to assert his pride of the University by keeping his diploma framed and displayed in his office, where cir­cumstances peimit; 

8.
 That all alumni keep themseh'es fully informed on the current poli­cies of the University, particularly with respect to the matriculation of freshmen students, and be able to 


• answer inquiries intelligently; 
9.
 That renewed efforts be extended to get all local clubs to participate in the Man-of-the-Year award; 

10.
 That all alumni conduct themselves in religious, family, social, business, political and personal life in a man­ner so as to bring credit and honor to themselves, to their fellow-alumni and to the University. 


In conclusion, the Prestige and Public Relations Committee would not pre­sume to suggest that these recommen­dations are the ultimate, nor that they will be fully adopted by local clubs and individual alumni. However, we are of the opinon that more alumni participation in following these sug­gestions will do much for improved public relations and the • enhancement of the prestige of the University and its alumni. 
CHAIRMEN APPOINTED FOR CLASS REUNIONS 
Local Chairmen for Class Reunion ^Veekend have been cooperating with the Alumni Office staff in arranging various functions for this special occa­sion. Those assisting are as follows: 
1917—Bernard J. VoU Sibley Machine &Foimdry Corp. 206 E. Tutt St. 
South Bend, Ind. 

1922—Frank Miles 1405 E. McKinley South Bend, Ind. 1927—Herbert E. Jones Athletic Dept. Notre Dame, Ind. 1932—^Dominic Napofitano Dept. of Physical Education Notre Dame, Ind. 
1937—Harry F. Koehler 1433 E. Madison St. South Bend, Ind. 
and Jerome Claeys , 451 Greenla\vn Ave. 
- South Bend, Ind. 

1942—Geoige Stratigos 420 J.M.S. Building South Bend, Ind. 
1947—James E. Murphy Public Information Office Notre Dame, Ind. 1952—James O. Horrigan 418 S. 28th St . South Bend, Ind. 
Specifically, Local Chairmen and their Committees \vill plan the Friday night Class Dinners and arrange for Class Masses, on Saturday morning. They, also, have prepared direct mail pieces to stimulate attendance. Mem­bers of the Reunion Classes may desire to send suggestions for the weekend program to the chairman of their group. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 15 
'PATRIOTOFTHEYEAR' 
AWARD IS PRESENTED 
TO SENATOR KENNEDY 
Senior Class Honors Distinguished Statesman 
Senator John F. Kennedy, recipient of an honorar)' degree from Notre Dame and 12 odier universities and col­leges, yvas named 'Patriot of the Year by the N. D. Senior Class and given the award on Feb. 22. The citation was inscribed as follows: "On this day with pride and confidence we address you. Sir, as an honorary alumnus, a renowned Catholic citizen who has greatly helped to make AVashington's prophetic and powerful ideals prevail in our present society, still the pal­ladium of political safety and pros­perity ..." 
George W. Strake, Jr., Houston, Texas, president of the Senior Class, presented Senator Kennedy with the award before a capacity audience in the Drill Hall. Rev.' Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University, accepted the new American flag from the Class, in be­half of the University. 
Senator Kennedy's life has been one of continual dedication to the ideas of his countr)'. After graduating from Harvard in 1940 with honors, he en­tered the Nav)' to serve as a Boat Com­mander in tlie South Pacific. During tliis tour of duty. Senator Kennedy was seriously injured when his PT Boat was rammed by a Japanese destroyer off the Solomon Islands. After his re­turn to civilian life he was elected to the House of Representatives in 1946. He ser\'ed in this capacity until the people of Massachusetts, in 1952, called him to be their Senator. In this elec­tion he received the highest vote ever given to a candidate in either party for the United States Senate in the history of Massachusetts. He is now a mem-

Participants in the 'Patriot of the Year' ceremony included, left to right: Senator John Ken­nedy, who received the award; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University-; and George W. Strake, Jr., Houston, Texas, president of the Senior Class. 
ber of the Senate Labor and Public AVelfare Committee, The Senate Gov­ernment Operations Committee, The Senate Select Committee on Small Business and the Senate Special Com­mittee on Technical Assistance Abroad. 
Student Radio Station 
(Continued from page 5) 
the beginning of college radio at Notre Dame in 1947. A group of students who were members of an insignificant radio club decided to begin broadcast­ing on a small basis. Using the call letters of WND, broadcasting was done in the band room of Washington hall. They didn't stay tltere long. First the studios were moved to a radio booth of die stadium and then into a small cubicle of the fieldhouse. Conditions had improved during these moves, biit die equipment and studios were still very crude. 
Then on Februar}' 22, 1954 campus radio began broadcasting from its pres­ent location. This was possible by a university loan which was completely paid off by the station in less than two years. After going under the call letters of WNDU for these t\vo years,-i the campus station offered these letters to the university for use in their com­mercial station, taking the present WSND call letters instead. 

AVSND has a great influence on stu-• dent opinion. The station's popularity, was disclosed in a recent survey which indicated that students listen 68.4% of the time to WSND in comparison to 31.6% of the time to all of the South Bend and Cliicaaro stations combined. 
Seminary Fund 
(Continued from page 9) 

launch diis campaign the Holy Cross Fathers simply bowed to the inevitable.' 
Rightly has Fadier Meliling, the, Provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers, said: "To all our worthwhile activities. —^Notre Dame, other schools, parishes, the mission band, our magazines, home' and foreign missions—this new Semi­nar)' will be the lifeline. May God bless all who help us build it." 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
INSTALL BISHOP PURSLEY 
IN FT. WAYNE DIOCESE TO 
SUCCEED ARCHBISHOP NOLL 
'Flying Irish' Will Return to 
Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley was re­cently installed as bishop of the Ft. Wayne, Indiana, diocese after having 
Campus for Reunion Weekend 
served as auxiliary bishop for six years 
"The Flying Irish" (2nd Unit) are returning to campus for their first post­war get-together during Class Reunion AVeekend on June 7, 8 and 9. The group is composed largely of alumni in the 1942 Class, as well as several other 'nearby classes', who formed this con­tingent in World AVar II. Sparked by Steve Graliker, P.O. Box 133, Decatur, 111., enthusiasm for a special luncheon on Friday, June 7 has created much interest. 
Graliker has sent a report to the Alumni Office which describes the project as it has developed up to sev­eral weeks prior to press time of this issue: 
The idea of a "Flying Irish" lunch­eon, June 7th, was first shared with Ed Mangelsdorf. He went for it like hayseed in the sunshine. A "test" note to Larrj' Hickey and Bill Grady re­sulted in an enthusiastic hour on the telephone with "Na\')'-Bill." He called from his home in Westford, Massa­chusetts. The idea was then posed to the others. Bob RaaPs was a return-mail response. He will be there. If it is his weekend to fly with the Naval Reserve, he will schedule his squadron's operations at South Bend. Simultane­ously, Don O'Brien catapulted out of Houston, Texas. This letter is the re­sult of his shoulder to the wheel. Bud Gavin immediately started to organize his family reunion in Indiana from VVitcliita Falls, Texas. And wth this momentum we hope to see Tom Foley at the class reunion. Bob Levemier is prodding his Home Oflice (Lansing, Michigan) to schedule their annual meeting about that time. The wheels are rolling!! 
Bill "Mongoose" McGrath shadow­boxed several weeks and is still doubt­ful about canceling a trip to Southern France. Otherwise, he will be there. Quentin Marshall "thought" he could make it until reminded of how bor­rowed his time really is. AVhile fl>'ing with a classmate he was involved in shearing some pine trees off Stone Mountain. He's now "eyeballs out" for the luncheon. Ed McLaughlin launched an early acceptance and un­trenched the Redhead who also af­firmed. "Macoot" McCourt and "Joints" Hackett marched right into this melee. Ed's letter should be quoted in its entirety: "Transmission received, wilco, out!" Lt. Col. Jack Maas has the Marine Corps alerted to his forth­coming absence. T. P. Carroll volun­teered to shake out Ed Hughes, Dave Bagley and Charlie Kirby. 
"Big E" Dunlavy accepted with an offer to bring a couch for flying-fault­analysis. He smoked out Daniel Dun­can Dahill, '41, who is flying up in his AVest Virginia National Guard jet. The Biggest strongly encourage a Navy Jet's presence by Raaf, O'Brien, Maas or self to offset the ole Dune. Quoting from Dahill's letter "—looking forward to meeting the survivors of the '29-N.D. —and one-from-Idaho Club!" AValt Kelly, '43, is doubtful about being ab­sent from the annual market in N.Y.C. Joe "Sargent York" Gillespie, '41, sends a handful of bottom-land and a one-sentence note: "What time June 7th?" 
Reverend Bob Stewart, Law '43, our authority on the two-pig litter, ac­cepted immediately. "Uncle Joe" Hartzer, '40, Notre Dame's shining light from the bottom of the Oke­fenokee, "—doodled" his acceptance from Jacksonville, Florida. 
The response is exhilerating. Ed Mangelsdorf took on the tough job of luncheon airangements. In his thor­ough, scientific approach (he got us all through Celestial Navigation) he has started gathering loose ends. Re­servations are necessary' and he is hop­ing to hear from Lou Bauer, Mike Humphreys, Paul Kelley, George Saxon, Charlie Tobin, Harold Beal, John Hart, Jack Barr)'. Anyone for "S" turns to the circle? 
to the late Archbishop John Francis Noll. Bishop Pursley is a frequent visitor on the Notre Dame campus and is the recipient of an honorary degree awarded by the University in 1951. 
More than 350 priests and about 400 nuns witnessed the installation cere­mony, while 30 bishops, led by Thomas Cardinal Tien, S.V.D., were present for the historic occasion. In brief remarks to those assembled. Bishop Pursley pledged "to administer the necessary temporal aff'airs and to promote the spiritual interests of the diocese". 
Archbishop Paul C. Schulte of Indi­anapolis was the installing prelate while Msgr. Charles J. Feltes, vicar general of the diocese, read the official Vatican decrees appointing Bishop Pursley to the Fort Wayne See. 
Bishop Pursley is a native of Indiana, having been bom in Hartford City. He was educated at Mt. St. Mary's Semi­nary, Cincinnati, O., and ordained in 1927. He was chaplain of the Newman Club at Purdue and in 1937, he received the Newman Key, a national Federation Ne\vman Clubs award. Bishop Pursley is well known as a lecturer, author and religious publisher. 
Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1937 17 
Members of the Notre Dame Law Association of Pittsburgh. Seated (left to right) Larry May, John Briley, John Vyono, Don Behcnck, Jim McLaughlin, Bill Rockcnstcin, Tom O'Brien and Vincc Scully. Standing (left to right), Tom Murray, Charles Dillon, John Murrin, Thomas Barber, Judge Boyle, Dean O'Meara, C)Til \ndra, Walter Monacelli, Bill O'Toole, Peter Flaherty and Earl Bricger. Missing from the picture are Charles Spinclli, John Hickey, Paul McArdle and Judge John Kennedy. 
O'MEARA TALKS TO 
N. D. LAW ALUMNI 
Prominent Jurists and Public 
Officials Attend 
Dean Joseph O'Meara, Jr., of the Notre Dame School of Law, was the principal speaker at tlie N. D. Law Alumni Association dinner in Pitts­burgli, Pennsylvania. President Judge Hugh G. Boyle, '24, of the Orphans Court of Allegheny County, was chair­man and toastmaster of die dinner. Attorney Earl ^V. Brieger, '31, was treasurer and Attorney Peter F. Fla­herty, '51, served as secretar)'. The dinner was held in Dean O'Meara's honor and his address was received with great enthusiasm by the more than 200 distinguished jurists, public officials and otlier guests who were in atten­dance. The entire text will be published in die Pittsburgh Legal Journal. 
The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, 

Dinner Meeting 
vice-president for academic affairs, was 
the only other speaker, at the dinner. 
Father Moore outlined the purposes 
and aims of the Notre Dame educa­
tional program. 
The dinner adjourned at 8:30 p.m. 
to enable the guests to hear and address 
by David F. Maxwell, president of 
the American Bar Association. Mr. 
Maxwell spoke before the General As­
sembly of the Pennsylvania Bar Asso­
ciation at the Penn-Shcraton Hotel. 
Dean O'Meara has been in his pres­
ent position at Notre Dame since 1952. 
He has received academic degrees from 
XaNier University and the University 
of Cincinnati College of Law. Prior to 
his appointment as dean of Notre 
Dame's School of Law, Mr. O'Meara had ser\'ed 31 years with distinction in ­the legal profession. He had been a member of two law firms in Cincinnati and Columbus, Ohio, and also served as associate counsel for the ^Vestem and Southern Life Insurance Company. 
Father Moore Represents University 
Among the many distinguished jur­ists, public officials and others who were in attendance at the dinner of the Notre Dame Law School Asso­ciation were: 
Rev. Phillip S. Moore, Rev. J. Gerald Walsh, Dean ot the Graduate School and Vice-President of Duqucsnc University; Chief Jttsticc of l*cnnsyl­\-ania Charles Alvin Jones and Mrs. Jones; Supreme " Court Justice Michael A. ^fu5tnanno; Superior Court Judges J. Colvin Wright and Robert E. Woodsidc; Common Picas Court Judges A. Marshall Thompson, John J. Kennedy, Clarence B. Nixon and William F. Cercone; Orphans' Court Judges William S. Rahauscr and Abraham L. Wolk; County Court Judges Francis J. O'Connor and John G. Brosk\*; Robert Emmett McCreary, President Judge of the Common Pleas Court of Beaver County; j David F. Maxwell, President, American Bar Asso-'-l ciation, and Mrs. ^fax\veIl; Arthur Littleton, Presi­dent, Pennsylvania Bar Association: Ira R. Hill, President, Allegheny County Bar iXssociation and Mrs. Hill; lion. Edmund C. Wingerd, Chairman, Pennsylvania State Board of Law Examiners; Hon. i Genevieve Blatt, Secrelarv' of Internal rVITairs; David 
L. Lawrence, Mayor, City of Pittsburgh; Hon. Charles H. McKibben, Prothonotar>', Pennsylvania Supreme and Superior Courts and Mrs. McKibben; Mrs. Barbara Lutz, Executive Secretary, Pennsyl-^i \-ania Bar /\ssociation; Ross M. Blair, Publisher, Pittsburgh Legal Journal; Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell and Mrs. O'Donnell; Hon. Edward C. Boyle, Dis-­trict Attorney; Hon. William H. Davb, Sheriff: Vincent C. A. Scully, Jr., Chairman, Notre Dame , Law /Vssociation Sciiolarship Fund and Mrs. Scully; Thomas F. Quinn, Dean, Duquesne University Law Scliool; Earl W. Brieg;r; Peter F. Flaherty; Hon. ­Hugh C. Boylc end Mrs. Boyle; Mrs. John A. Briley, Mr^. Earl W. Brieger and Mrs. Leo Vogel, Jr., members of the Ladies' Committee. 

18 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1957 
The two squads were guests at the breakfast and, as evidenced in the 
Rockne Communion Breakfast 
photo on this page, were well ref)­
resented. 
Featured by Cleveland Club 
Archbishop Edward F. Hoban was 

More than 600 alumni and guests honored the memory of the late Knute Rockne at a Communion Breakfast in Cleveland on March 24. Sponsored *' by the Notre Dame Cliib of Cleveland, the occasion featured many highlight events. Piincipal speaker of the break­fast was Lany "Moon" Mullins, for­mer backfield star in the Rockne era and now director of athletics at Mar­' quettc University. Mullins paid tri-I butc to Rockne for his "simplicity of i training" and his stress on "the spirit i of the thing." Rockne inspired his players to work "on their own" re­marked Mullins. Commenting on the 
_ pressures of big time athletics, Mullins said, "Rockne would go out of coach­ing rather than operate with diose 'on the fringe.' " 
A scroll citing AVilliam J. Van Rooy as 'Man of the Year" was presented in the club's behalf by Dennis J. O'Neill who was given a similar honor in 1956. 
Guests at the head table included die Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of student affairs at Notre Dame; director of athletics Ed Krause; 
J. Patrick Canny, national president of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion; and numerous members of Rocknc's national championship teams of 1929 and 1930. 
Father Norton told the assembled group: "What struck me most was not only his (Rockne) great capacity for leadership but the great respect men had for him. Were he here today, he would see Notre Dame grown in fame, esteem and prestige." 
celebrant of the Mass in St. John's Cathedral. The breakfast was served in the main ballroom of the Hollenden Hotel. Co-chairmen of the affair were Al Grisanti and Tom Mulligan. 
A significant part of the Cleveland Club's Communion Breakfast event was a scroll presented to sportscaster Ted Husing who is critically ill in Los Angeles, Calif. Coy Williams, sports writer for the Los Angeles Mirror-News, gave the scroll to Husing as a representative of the club. The ap­preciation by the Cleveland Club to Husing, who for many years broadcast Fighting Irish football games, read (in part) as follows: "A tribute to Ail-American Ted Husing .. . in recog­nition of the warmth of your person­ality . . . the plays we saw through vour eves . . .". 
Prominent guests at the Cleveland Club's Rockne Breakfast were: First row (left to right): John.. Malik, '29, Bellairc, Ohio; Al Grisanti^ co-chainnan; Pat Canny; John Quinn, football manager, 1929; and John Rogers, center, 1931. Second row (left to right): Jim Harris,' guard, 1930, now assistant coach at Holy Cross; Joe Nash, center, 1928-1929; Ike Voedlsch, end, 1925-26-27; Hunk Anderson; John Law, captain, 1929; and Jack Cannon, guard, 1927-28-29. Third row (left to right): Bemie Conroy, assbtant manager, 1929; Tom Conley, cap­tain, 1930; Mike Koken, halfback, 1930; Bert Mctzger, guard, 1929-30; Dan Cannon, halfback, 1929; Larry (Moon) Mullins, fullback, 1929-30; Carl (Stumpy) Cronin, halfback, 1930; and Bob Terlaak, guard, 1930. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 19 
PUERTO RICO—^Father Hesburgh «-as guest speaker at a gathering of alumni and friends during his visit to Puerto Rico. 
Notre Dame President At Puerto Rico Meeting 
Father Hesburgh Attends Conference, Inter -American Academic Problems 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., was one of tlie principal speakers at a tlu-ee-day meeting in Ponce, Puerto Rico, to plan Inter-American academic collaboration. The conference was at­tended by presidents of 11 major Catliolic universities in the United States, Canada and Latin America and held during the last week of February'. 
Two conclusions were reached by the participants: 1) the necessity and lugency of a truly objective study of the problems inherent in Inter-Amer­ican relationships; and, 2) the import­
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
ance and value of collaborative aca­demic endeavor in tlie area of Inter-American relations and the necessity to take some interim practical steps, ex­perimental in nature, to test the pos­sibility of collaboration. 
Father Hesburgh said, "because of the predominant, centuries-old and deep-seated Catholic tradition in the countries of Latin America, the CatlioHc universities of the United States feel that diey have a special op­portunity to serve the welfare of all tlie Americas in promoting intercultural 
understanding and therefore they 
agreed to study concrete ways to im­
plement these goals through colla­
borative endeavor," Other educators attending the meet­ing included: Rev. Edward B. Bunn, S.J., Georgetown University; Msgr. Irene Lussier, University of Montreal; Rev. John Fl)'nn, CM . St. John's Uni­versity; Rev. J. Kelly, O.S.A., Villa­nueva University in Havana, Cuba; Rev. Thomas Stanley, S.M., Catholic University of Puerto Rico; Rev. Ed­ward Rooney, S. J., president of the Jesuit Educational Association; Rev. Louis Rongione, O.S.A., Villanova Uni­versity; and Rev. William Ferree, S.M., general director of Marianist education. 
Need Dining Hall Assistant Director 
With the opening of the new Dining Hall in the fall, the Uni­versity is in need of an Assistant Director of Dining Halls. The University Personnel Office is interested in receiving applica­tions from Notre Dame gradu­ates who are experienced in this field. Please write to Mr. Joseph 
F. O'Brien, Director of Person­nel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Appreciation Banquet 
(Continued from page 13) 

Cletus Gardner, county recreation di­rector and former St. Augustine coach. 
Notre Dame alumni serving on the committee under Father Aheme and Monahan were: Rt. Rev. Francis C. Ott '17, G. R. Bill '29, Richard Martin '45, Howard Beilstein '47, John Sul­livan '48, W. R. (Bill) Vangen '49, Thomas Carter '51 and John Murphy '51. 
This year's banquet was in the na­ture of a quiet victory celebration as the four years of combined efforts by school officials, Notre Dame alumni and civic leaders culminated last fall in the acceptance of St. Augustme High School into membership in the City Prep League for sports competition. 
In addition to his banquet speech, Daugherty also presided at a football L clinic in the afternoon preceding the dinner. All coaches in San Diego County were invited, including gram­mar, high school, college and military mentors. The clinic was held at St. Augustine High School with Saints Coach Tom Carter '51 in charge of 
'• arrangements. 
Expr iression of Thanks 
, N. J. Dear Fr. Hesbui^h: 
Enclosed please find a very trivial contribution to your work, but with it goes a very hearty "well done" for all the fine work you have done and continue to do. Would that I could add quite a few ciphers to the numeral but my young family con­sumes inordinate amounts of "wheaties" tliese days. Some day, please God, I may be able to give what I would like to be able to afford. 
I wish it were in my talents to put the correct words together that I might tliank all the many Fathers and men of Notre Dame for all it has given me. In the day-to-day hub-bub of life there are many times when I have listed only two assets that really add up—my family and Notre Dame—both being the rea­sons behind what one does in tlie long run. 

Thanks so much for having shown tlie way to something solid in this messed up world. 
Sincerely, ,'51 

The Notre Danic Law Association dinner at the Carlton House, Pittsburgh, Pa., honoring Dean Joseph O'Meara, Jr., opened the new Carlton Room in grand style by attracting a capacity crowd of 200, including the most distingubhed state jurists and public officials. Shown here seated, left to right: Pennsylvania Supreme Court Chief Justice Charles A. Jones; Judge Hugh C. Boyle, chairman of the dinner; and Reverend Phillip S. Moore, vice-president of academic alTairs at Notre Dame. Standing, left to right: Ira S. Hill, Esq., president, Alle­gheny County Bar Association; Arthur Littleton, Esq., president, Pennsylvania Bar Associa­tion; Dean O'Meara, and David F. Maxwell, Esq., president of the American Bar Association. 
Frank Semetko, '52, and his wife, Agnes, of Toledo, 0.,'havc probably established an 'all­time Notre Dame record' with two sets of twins bom in less than 13 months. Susan Marie and Sally Ann 'arrived' on Feb. 4, 1956, while David Andrew and Daniel Martin were bom on Jan. 18, 1957. Frank graduated from N.D. with a degree in Commerce and is employed by the Ohio Bell Telephone Co., as a sales representative. Mrs. Scmetko is an alumna of Mary Manse College in Toledo. The children are from left to right: Sally, Dave, Dan, Susan. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 21 
Rapid construction progress has been made at Notre Dame on two new residence halls and another dining hall. There is a likely possibility that the three buildings will be ready for the opening of school in September instead of in the spring of 1958 as originally scheduled. 
John J. Broderick, assistant dean of Notre Dame's School of Law, represented the University at the Second Annual Career Conference Days held recently at Canisius College. The pur­pose of the Conference was to give students an insight into the requirements, advantages and disad\-antages of \-arious occupations and careers. William B. Lawless, Jr., '44, president of the City Council of Buffalo (N. Y.) also participated in the Conference. In the photo, left to right, are: Dr. Herman Szj-manski, '52, head of the Chembtry department at Canbius; Lawless; Rev. Edward B. Gillen, S.J., general chairman of the meeting and Director of Stu­dent Personnel Services; Broderick; and Dr. David KcifTer, '56, faculty member at Cankius. 
•All.' 

"^'^^^"^mmm 
Fr. Thornton Surveys Student Summer Jobs 

Ambitious college students no longer need spend the summer months in work unrelated to dieir future profes­sional careers, ac­cording to Rev. Louis 
J. Thornton, C.S.C., placement director at Notre Dame. 
Instead of working as lifeguards, play­ground supervisors or construction laborers, collegians now have 
Fr. Thornton 

a good chance of finding summer employment within their own major field of interest and at salaries often large enough to pay their tuition for the following school year. Father Thornton said. 
As a result of a recent survey, one hundred thirty-six business and indus­trial firms have listed summer job op­portunities at Notre Dame's placement bureau. About five-sixths of the com­panies are primarily interested in engi­neering and science majors, Father Thornton said, but commerce and lib­eral arts students are in demand, too. 
"A carefully selected summer job can be a valuable supplement to formal academic training in one's chosen field," Father Thornton stressed. "It enables the student to see textbook theory put in practice," he said, "and it orients the collegian as to what he can expect in the world of business and industry after araduation." 
One Dollar Gift 

, North Carolina Dear Father Cavanaugh: My recent gift of one dollar rep­resented just about all I could spare at present, and I had some misgiv­ings about bothering you with so small an amount. So I was singu­larly pleased to receive your letter and your personal thanks. Over the years my wife and I (she's a Saint Mary's graduate) hope to participate according to our abil­ity in the work of Notre Dame. I came to N. D. with twenty-five dol­lars in my pocket and one semes­ter's tuition paid; that was the limit of my financial reserve. Sincerely in Our Lady, '51 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
N.D. Students Win $1,000 Design Prize 

Two 21-year-old Notre Dame archi­tecture students have won the $1,000 first prize in the 1957 national design competition sponsored by the Indian­apolis Home Show. 
They are Noel Blank, Toledo, Ohio and David Billmeyer, AVisconsin Rapids, Wise. Their design of a single-stor\­ranch liouse was judged the best of 225 entries submitted by professional architects and architecture students throughout tiie country. Leon Chatc­lain, Jr., ^Vashington, D. C , president of the American Institute of Architects, headed the jury which selected the prize winners. 
The home designed by the two Notre Dame students will be built and fea­tured at ne.\t year's Indianapolis Home Show, officials of the annual event said. Another Notre Dame student, Jaime Saenz of Cali, Columbia, designed the prize-winning home in 1954. 
Specifications of the competition called for a home for an elderly re­tired couple. The Blank-Billmeyer home was selected. Home Show officials said, for its arrangement of space with hobby areas so situated that the husband and wife could be together even while busy at their own interests. It provides an area for a visiting daughter and her family so complete and removed from the parents that they would not be disturbed. 
The prize-winning home provides 2,000 square feet of living area and is of wood post and lintel construction. It features a cantilevered terrace to the rear raised t\vo feet above the ground. Also included are a sewing room, workshop, and protected garden space. A practice golf tee and green are also included in the architects' plans. 
Noel Blank, who will receive his architecture degree at Notre Dame in June, was graduated from Central Catholic High School in Toledo. A member of the Notre Dame student chapter of the American Institute of Architects, Blank will be commissioned an Army second lieutenant. He expects to be assigned to the Army's Guided Missiles School. 
Billmeyer will be graduated from Notre Dame's architecture school next Januar)'. He is a graduate of Lincoln High School in Wisconsin Rapids. 
Notre Dame's prize-winning architecture students, left to right, Noel Blank and David Billmeyer. 
A recent innovation on Canipus was moving The Huddle into a new wing of the LaFortunc Student Center. Featuring an 'out of this world decor,' it is still a popular hangout for students during the bctween-class snack period. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 23 
TESTIMONIAL BANQUET FOR ELI SHAHEEN,'34 
A testimonial banquet honoring Eli 

J. Shaheen, '34, was sponsored by the Notre Dame Council 1477 Knights of Colimibus on April 6 in the South Bend K. of C. building. Shaheen has been a trustee of tiie Notre Dame Council for many years, as well as having ser\'ed as Grand Knight of Nilcs, O., Distinct Deputy of the Ohio Jurisdiction, Financial Secretary' of die 
N. D. Council, District Deputy of the Indiana Jurisdiction and Chairman of the Indiana State Council Youth Committee. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., ex­ecutive vice-president, represented the University on the speaking program while other participants included: Mr. 
Robert Miller (standing right), Grand Knight of the Notre Danic Council of the Knights 
Shaheen; Rev. Philip Schaerf, CS.C , of Columbus, presents a gift of $3,000 to the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre 
Chaplain, Notre Dame Council; James Dame president, for the Holy Cross Fathers' Morcau Seminarj- Fund. The K. of C. con­E. Armstrong, toastmaster; Supreme tribution will be used for the purchase of a vestment case in the $3,000,000 seminary soon Director John T. Rbcap, Indianapolis, to be erected on the campus. Others taking part in the presentation are (left to right) Ind.; Timothy P. Galvin, Past Deputy 
Rev. Philip Schaerf, CS.C, chaplain; Fred Freeman, financial secretary; and Robert Locffler, recording secretary. The Notre Dame Council is the largest and oldest 
Supreme Knight; and diaries Moi^an, Knights of Columbus college council in the world. Supreme Director, Chicago, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind., and their children form an extremely attractive group. Pat, a law graduate in '37, is Club Vice President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Besides Pat and his wife Carroll, the children are Patrick J., Joseph A., Michael Regan, Christopher John, Marj- Marguerite, Ann Elizabeth, Frances Theresa and Grace Marie. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1957 
• ^ MSJX^^WV'*««''>vlCrtSViAJ ^ p ^ v>_ %  m^^f•VlNS(•^:^^^ffuv, 1..  J  —Philadelphia, National; Meyer, Chief—Chicago, .•\mcrican; Morgan, James—Washington, American; Murray, John—^New York, National; McCarthy,  
.•\lc.x—Pittsburgh, National; McDonough, Ed—Phila­ 
delphia,  National;  McGill,  William—Chicago,  Na­ 
tional;  McHale,  John—Detroit,  American;  O'Neil,  
Phil—Cincinnati,  National;  Pilney,  Andy—Boston,  

:n 

Notre Dame Has Great Record During 64 Years of Baseball 
Baseball began at Notre Dame when Adrian (Pop) Anson, later a star with the Chicago Cubs, showed the students how to play the nine man game in 1887. It was similar to "rounders", which was played with a stick and ball by any number of boys. Thus, 13 yeare before the turn of the centur>', the na­tional pastime was introduced to a school which was subsequently to send forth some of the outstanding college teams in the countr)' and a creditable number of major league players. 
Although considerable interest was 

shown in the game after Anson's intro­
duction, no outside contests were sched­
uled until 1892, when the Irish de­
feated Michigan 6-4 in the only contest 
of the season. 
From 1906 to 1908 Notre Dame had its greatest success on the diamond. In these three years the squad won 60 games and lost only nine. The Irish won 20 games each season, losing five in 1906, three in 1907, and only one in 1908. The latter was the best single year in Notre Dame histor>'. That 1908 team made a swing through the East and won over such outstanding teams as Williams, Dartmouth, Boston, Ford­ham, Syracuse, and Georgetown. The University of Vermont handed the Irish their only loss in the middle of the trip. 
The Irish enjoyed their best season in recent years in 1949, winning 18 and losing but six during the regular cam­paign. They were selected along with \Vestem Michigan, Indiana, and Pur­due to play-for-the District Four cham­pionship in the NCAA finals. Notre Dame defeated Purdue, 1-0, and West-em Michigan defeated Indiana, 8-3, in the first round. Then the Irish whipped Western Michigan, 9-1, to take the District title. In the NCAA resrional 
series, \Vake Forest, champs of District Three, defeated Notre Dame two straight, 4-1 and 10-7. A year ago, in 1956, the Irish were again selected for the NCAA tourney. The selection came as a result of a strong stretch drive in the regular season. Coach Kline's men had won only two of their first seven games, but then proceeded to take six of the next eight. In the tournament, they were beaten in the mid-west play­offs, by Minnesota, two games to one. But it is noteworthy that Alinnesota continued on to win the tournament and the NCAA title. 
Among the best of the Irish diamond years were 1900, with 13 victories and sLx defeats; 1902, with 16 out of 20; 1903, widi 17 out of 22; 1910, with 19 victories in 21 games; 1913, with 15 out of 18 and one tie; 1914, with 17 out of 22; 1916, with 16 wins in 19 starts; 1922, when the Irish won 19 of 23; 1936, when the record was 16-3; 1947, with 16 wins out of 21; and 1949, when, including the NCAA tourney, they won 20 and lost eight. Up imtil the present season, the Irish have won 751, lost 401, and tied 13 games in 64 years of baseball. 
Notre Dame's contribution to Major League baseball: 
Anson. Adrian—Chicago, National; Brcsnahan, Roger—Cfiicago and New York, Xalional; Benning-Iiam, Joe—Clcvt-Iand, American: Burke, Bill—Bos­tonj National; Bergman. Al—Cleveland, /Vmerican; Bcschcr, Bob—Cincinnati, National; Brady, James— Detroit, .-Vmcrican; Carmody, Francis—Pittsburgh, Xationil; Carron, Tom—New Vork, x\mcrican; Curtis, Harr>'—New York, National; Cutshaw, George—Brooklyn, National; Danieb, Bert—New-York, American; Dubuc. John—Detroit, American; Ferrtll, Muss—Boston, .American; Granfield. William —Boston, National; Grey, A\'jlbur—Chicago, /\mcr­ican; Gibson, Jim—Boston, American; Gibson, Nor­wood—Boston, American; Han>Tcw-ski, Ed—Chicago and Cleveland, National and American; Inks, Lefty —Pittsburgii, National; Keeley, Bert—Washington, .•\merican; Kenny, Joe—New York, National; Kelly, M—Chicago, American; Kelly, Herl>^Pittsburgh, National; Lathrop. Bill—Chicago, iVmerican. 
L)Tich, Bobb)'—Philadelphia, Nationals; Maj-o, Jack 
National; Powers, Mike—Philadelphia, .American; Quiglcy, Tom—Pittsburgh, National; Ruelbach, Ed— Chicago, National; Rucll, Ulric—Philadelphia, Na­tional; Shafer, Art—New York, National; Shaugh­nessy, Frank—Washington, Ainerican; Smith, Rich­ard—New York and Chicago. National; Sullivan, Billy—St. Louts, American; Ulatowski, Clem—Chi­cago, National; Waldorf, Rufus—Chicago, National; Walsh, Ed, Jr.—Chicago, /Vmerican; Walsh, James —Detroit, American; Williams, Cy—Philadelphia and 
Chicago, National. 
Neil C. Hurley, Jr., '32, president of Thor Power Tool Co., Aurora, 111., and promoter of the first Bengal Bouts, was a ringside spectator at this year's fight finals. The bouts were originally sponsored hy the No­tre Dame SCHOLASTIC and Hurley, as editor, played a vital part in the beginning of organized bo.\ing on the campus. In the past 25 years, proceeds have been given for the benefit of the Holy Cross foreign missionaries in Bengal. Neil Hurley is also a member of Notre Dame's Advisory Coim­cil for the College of Commerce. 
Wilson Referees Relays 

Coach Alex Wilson, '33, of the Notre Dame track team, served as referee of the 48th Drake Relays on April 26-27. Wilson, now in his seventh season as mentor of the Irish speedsters, is a former OK-mpic par­ticipant having competed for Can­ada in the 1928 and 1932 games. As an undergraduate at Notre Dame, he was undefeated in the quarter and half mile and set a national indoor record of 49.3 seconds for the 440­yard event. He still holds the indoor and outdoor records for the 440 at N.D. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 25 
to play in the N.C.A.A. tournament. For the six years, Jordan's teams have 
Hardwood Team Plays in 
won 100 games and lost 51. Notre 
Dame ranked 7th nationally in scoring 
according to a report of the N.C.A.A. 
N.C.A.A. Tournament Games 
Coach John Jordan Directs Irish To Impressive Season of 20 Victories 
More points were scored than ever before, and more people watched tlie 1956-57 Notre Dame basketball team than any other in Irish basketball hb­tory. Also, Tom Hawkins, sophomorc forward, set a new one season scoring record of 576 points breaking tlie mark 
•established by Lloyd Aubrey, in 1956 •of 539 points. 
These were some of the highlights of the recently-concluded Notre Dame basketball season which saw Coach Johnny Jordan's quintet win 20 and lose but eight, including two wins in three N.C.A.A. tournament games. 
The total points scored, 2,364 broke the former record of 1,896 points, tal­lied by the 1953-54 team. Nine times this year's outfit scored more dian 90 points, and twice they equalled the previous one game high of 99 points. The 28 games were witnessed by a total of 188,922 fans, which topped the 1948-49 figure of 188,780. 
It was the sixth year that Jordan, captain of the 1934-35 Irish quintet, has coached the Notre Dame basket­ball team. And it was the third time in the last five seasons that he has had the honor of seeing his club selected 
Deserving of a major share of credit for the success of this year's team was Captain Jolm Smyth, senior center. He was second to Hawkins in scoring with 534 points, which makes him holder of the third highest one-season total. In addition, his three year point-total of 1,236 has been topped only by Jack Stephens (1,251 in 1952-55). Sm}th is also the only regular being graduated. 
John McCarthy, a junior fonvard, was die third high scorer with 431 points, followed by Bobby Devine, junior guard, with 356. The above four were the only men to play in ever>' game. Others who had starting as­signments at various times were: Joe Morelli, senior forward-guard, 152 points; Ed Gleason, junior guard, 98; Gene Duffy, sophomore guard, 79, and Tommy Sullivan, senior guard, 55. Duffy was the fifth regular at the end of the season. 
1956-57 Notre Dame basketball team. Left to right, back row: Assistant Coach Jim Gibbons, Jim Williams, Tom Reinhart, Henry Luepke, Jack Bedan, Charlie Wittenburg, Head Coach Johnny Jordan. First row: Gene Duffy, Tom Sullivan, Tom Hawkins, Capt John Smyth, John McCarthy, Bob Devine, and Joe Morelli. 
26 Notre Dame Atumnus, May-June, 1957 
New assistant coaches Henry Stram (left) and Bemie Crimmins put backfield candidates through some tricky maneuvers on Cartier Field during spring drills. 
Gridders Climax Drills In Annual Spring Game 
Coach Terr)' Brennan clima.xed spring Coach Brennan has been using vari­practice sessions for his 1957 squad on ous combinations of player personnel April 13 with tlie annual Old Timers during spring drills with many of the newcomers seeing lots of action on 
game. The ALUMNUS goes to press Cartier Field. Two additional mem­prior to the date diat this contest is bers of die coaching staff are Bemie being played. In addition to working Crimmins, former Irish assistant and widi last year's freshmen, Brennan and head coach at Indiana U., and Henry his staff have a nucleus of 22 mono­Strain, former assistant at Purdue and gram men for this fall's aggregation. 
at Southern Methodist. Both will tutor 
Seasoned participants include: Gaiy 
the backfield, Bemie AVitucki, one of Myers, Dick Prendergast, Dick Roycr 
the backfield coaches last year, will in-and Bob AVetoska, ends; Frank Ge-stmct the line in 1957. Other hold­remia, Bronko Nagurski and Don Law­over membei-s of the staff include Bill rence, tackles; Al Ecuyer, Dick Ciesiel-Fischer, Bill \Valsh and Jack Zilly. ski, John McGinley, Bob Gaydos and Dick Shulsen, guards; Ed Sullivan and Fi-ank Kuchta, centere; Bob Williams, 
All-Opponent Players 

quarterback; Dick Lynch, Frank Rej-n­olds and Bobby AVard, halfbacks; Aub­Four seniors and one sophomore rey Lewis, Chuck Lima and Jim Just, were named to Notre Dame's 1956­fullbacks. 57 all-opponent basketball team. 
Monogram winners lost by gradua­The soph was John Green, Michi­tion are Paul Homung, AU-American gan State's jumping-jack center. quarterback; Captain Jimmy Morse, Others named were Bill Ebben, De­halfback; Bob Scannelland JimMunro, troit, Charlie Tyra, Louisville, Dave ends; Lou Loncaric, center; Larry Markey, Canisius, and Gerry Paul­Cooke, quarterback; Jim Milota and son, Manhattan. Dean Studer, halfbacks; Angelo Mosca, 
Illinois was selected as the best soph tackle, has withdra\vn from team faced by the Irish players. 

school. 
N.D. Swimmers Finish 
Successful Card With 
7 Wins and 5 Losses 

Hoping to gain recognition as a vai-sity sport in 1957-58, the Notre Dame Swimming Club finished second in the Midwest Invitational to close out a successful season. Annually con­sidered an important meet in collegiate swim circles, the Irish competed against some of the strongest teams in this area. 
Coached by Gil Burdick, swimming and life-saving instructor at Notre Dame for more dian 20 years, the Club achieved an overall record of seven victories and five defeats. Opening with Western Michigan, the Irish won their first meet of the year by the impres­sive score of 58 to 28. Following a pair of losses to Central Michigan, Notre Dame won over the University of Chicago and upset highly favored Ohio University in the Rockne Memorial pool. 
Other wins were at the expense of Loyola (Chicago), ^Vestem Michigan, Hillsdale, and Ball State. Bowling Green, champions of the Mid-America. Conference; Miami of Ohio; and North Central College gained victories, with the latter forging ahead in the final event to take the meet. 
Fr. Pelton Is Faculty Moderator 
Outstanding swimmers on the Club were Jim Garrity of Yonkers, New York (backstroke), Dick Katis, Glen Ellyn^ lUinob, (backstroke and free­style), Tom Kennedy of Hartford, Conn, (sprints). Captain Mike Con­nelly of Naperville, Illinois, (220 and 440 freestyle), and Paul Chestnut of La Grange, Illinois, (diving). 
The faculty moderator was Father Robert Pelton, C.S.C. Notre Dame had a well-balanced squad with at least two capable men in each event. 
Since the Club is not a varsity sport, they relied upon two sources of income for trip expenses in five away-from-' home meets: 1) an allotment from student government and 2) "contribu­tions" from club members. 
Only four members of the team will be lost by graduation in '57, with the nucleus of ne.xt year's group being composed of students who are currently sophomores and freshmen. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 27 
WINTER TEAMS GET SPORT MONOGRAMS 
Krause Makes Announcement 
Monograms were awai-ded to thirty­

' eight members of Notre Dame's basket­ball, fencing and wresding teams for participation in winter sports activit)' according to a recent announcement by Edward AV. Krause, Director of Athletics. 
Basketball monograms were received by: Captain John Smyth, Chicago, 111.; Co-Captains elect, Robert De\Tne, Glenolden, Pa., and Jolm McCarthy, Chicago, 111.: Eugene Duffy, Daven­port, Iowa; Edward Gleason, Chicago, 111.; Thomas Hawkins, Chicago, 111.; Joseph Morelli, • Albany, N. Y.; and Thomas Sullivan, Cliicago, 111. Senior sei^ace monograms were given to Jack Bedan, Jeffersonville, Ind.; Henry Luepke, St. Louis, Mo.; and Charles Wittenberg, St. Louis, Mo. 
Senior Managers Named 

Fencing monograms wert awarded to: Co-Captains John R>'an, Berwyn, 111., and Denis Hemmerle, Cincinnati, Ohio; Joseph Blazina, Chicago, 111.; Daniel Clancy, Rocky River, Ohio; Pierre duVair, Madison, Wis.; Richard Fagon, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; Ronald Farrow, St. Louis, Mo.; James Jock, Indianapolis, Ind.; Jolm Keams, Cham­paign, 111.; Joseph Klein, San Antonio, Tex.; John Lauerman, Marinette, A Vis.; Terry Laughlin, Long Beach, Calif.; Gerald Meyer, Arlington, Va.; and Artliur Price, Chesterton, Ind. Senior ser\'ice monograms were awarded to Raymond Brennan, Brooklyn N. Y., and Gerald Jones, Boise, Idaho. 
Wrestling monograms were awarded to: Captain Terrence Crowley, Omaha, Nebr.; Captain-elect Bob Pivonka, Sterling, Colo.; Charles Day, Hershey, Pa.; Melvin Larsen, DeWitt, Iowa; James Rankin, Coral Gables, Fla.; and Paul O'Connor, Newark, N. J. 
Monograms were also awarded to the senior managers of the three sports: Bruce Fedor, Lakewood, Ohio, basket­ball; Leon Glover, Palo Alto, Calif., fencing; and Gerald Lunden, Bellmore, 
N. Y., wrestling. 
diilUOtemi 

Although the Notre Dame football team didn't have an impressive record in 1956, Bob Caliill, Irish ticket man­ager, states that interest in securing ducats for next fall's campaign is as great as ever. The Army game, being played at Philadelplua, Oct. 12, is easily leading the field, among those making early requests, according to Caliill. 
Four of the five regulars on this 

year's basketball team are from Chi­
cago, as is Head Coach Jolmny Jordan, 
and Assistant Coach Jimmy Gibbons. 
On the Celtic side, the roster includes 
Tommy Sullivan, John McCarthy, 
Bobby Devine, Gene Duffy, Ed Glea­
son and Mike Ireland. 
As an undergrad at Notre Dame, Head Football Coach Terry Brennan was a philosophy major in the Arts and Letters school, and was graduated mth honors. On the athletic side, he was a four year regular at left half (1945­48), and was the leading ground-gainer on the national championship 1946 and 1947 football teams. He was also a pole vaulter on the track team, and won the middleweight boxing cham­pionship of the school, as a sophomore. 
Paul (Buck)') O'Connor, Notre Dame 177-pound sophomore wrestler, is die son of the famous Irish fullback of 1930. Paul O'Connor senior, is re­membered for scoring the second touch­down on an 80 yard "perfect play" in the 27-0 Irish victory over Southern California at Los Angeles in 1930. 
Notre Dame's perennial winning athletic team, namely the fencing squad, had a great season with 14 victories and only one loss—that to the Uni­versit)' of Wisconsin. The Irish finished 9th in the N.C.A.A. tournament. Pro­fessor Walter Langford has attained tremendous success as coach of the Irish swordsmen. 
AI Ecuyer, 200-pound sophomore starting guard on last fall's Notre Dame football team, is a two-sport participant inasmuch as he wrestles in the heavy­weight di\'ision for die Irish wrestling team. 
Jack Elder, star halfback on Rockne's 1928 and 1929 teams, was the main speaker at the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley's Rockne Communion 
OUTSTANDING MEN ON 1957 TENNIS AND GOLF SQUADS 
With one of the most balanced teams in recent years. Coach Tom Fallon, in Iiis first year as Notre Dame tennis mentor succeeding Charlie Samson, has high hopes that diis year's edition of die Irish tennis team will surpass last season's mark of seven wins, eight losses, and one tie. Unmarked by grad­uation, the Irish netmen have five re­turning monogram winners plus five promising sophomores from last year's freshman club. 
Heading the list of promising per­formers is last year's captain, Harty Smith, a senior, and two sophomore netmen, Maxwell Brown and Ronald Schoenberg. Brown, who captured the Eastern Intercollegiate freshman crown at Cornell this summer, upset 1956 Davis Cup squad player, Barry Mac-Kay, of the University of Michigan in a recent indoor round robin tourna­ment held at the University of Chi­cago in March. Schoenberg has had the distinction of placing sixth in the National Boys' singles tourney finals. Opponents include: Chicago, Mich­igan State, Wisconsin, Western Mich­igan, Kentucky, Marquette, North­western, Iowa and Michigan as high­lights of a 13-match schedule. 
Five of the eight monogram winners from last season's golf squad are re­turning this spring to give the linksmen a solid nucleus of par-threatening vet­erans. Co-captains Joe Grace of Bir­mingham, Micliigan and Charlie Thum of South Bend will provide the 1-2 punch, backed up by Lloyd Syron of Pontiac, Michigan, Tom Garside of Davenport, Iowa, Stan Lorens of Gahon, Ohio, and Joe Leslie of Whit­ing, Indiana. The team will engage in seven matches and then participate in the NCAA tournament at the Broad­moor Country Club in Colorado Springs from June 23 to 29. Father Geoige Holderith, G.S.C., golf coach since 1933, win be seeking another winning season for his Irish linksmen. 
Breakfast. Now an Indianapolis busi­nessman. Elder is possibly best-remem­bered for a 98-yard runback with an intercepted pass for the touchdown that defeated Army, 7-0. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
Akron 
The Akron Club Jicld a meeting- on Fcbniary 5th. The purpose of this meeting was to elect ofHccrs and dbcuss Universal Notre Dame Night. The football liighlights of ND's '56 season were shown after the meeting. 
Tlic new ofliccrs of the Afcron Notre Dame Club arc as follows: 
President—GER^\LD KLEIN, '32. 
\nce-Prcsidcnt—BOB KxVPISH, '52. 
Sccrctar%—DAN AfOTZ, '54. 
Treasurer—JOHN DAR.\GO, '54. 

Tlic Akron Alumni Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on Tuesday, April 30, at the City Club. H/\RRV STUHLDREHER was the guest speaker. Many thanks to FR/\NK STEEL for making this possible. Tliis Universal Notre Dame Night was a husband and wife afl'air. 
Tlie following men served on committees for Universal Notre Dame Night: Guests — BILL O'NEIL; Man of the Year Au-ard—HUGH CO­LOPY; Publicity—BOB KOLB, BOB HUDDLES­TON; Tickets— DAN MOTZ, JOHN DxVRAGO, GEORGE DEICVNY, JOHN KEEHNER, BRUCE R.VFF. JR., STEVE SITKO, JIM WALTER, TOM WEIGrVND, BOB RE,\L. 
The Akron Club welcomes BILL L/\MMERS, class of '53, to the A.kron area. Bill, has been working in Detroit and recently transferred to Akron. 
—BOB KAPISH. 

Buffalo 
The club's basketball luncheon prior to the Notre Damc-Canisius game u'as held at the Sheraton Hotel on Feb. 2. JACK La\7GNE and LOU AL-MiVSI ser\'cd as co-chairmen. 
Plans arc in process for an excursion to the Notre Dame-Army game in Philadelphia this com­
\_i 
..t>_>^. .>C:J. 

ing October. It would be an opportunity to in­crease the club's treasury. 
At the last monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo, thj Club elected its new officers and directors for the coming year as follows: 
FRx\NCIS GAGLIONE. '39, President. JOHN LaVIGNE, '49, Vice-President. ANTHONY C. ROCCO, '49, Sccretar\-. RICHARD KLEE, '50, Treasurer. ALBERT IFFL^WDER, '49, Financial Secretary. 
The new Board of Directors elected to a three-year term are RICHARD KLEE, ALBERT IF­FL.VNDER, JOHN BOLxVND and JOSEPH RYAN. 
Retiring President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer respectivclv arc RALPH ELSE, FRAN­CIS GAGLIONE, RICHARD LEOUS and JOHN CONSIDINE—all did an outstanding job for Notre Dame and the Buffalo Club. 
—TONY ROCCO, Sco-. 

Calumet Region 
Guest speakers at the club's annual Sports Night Stag were Athletic Director EDWARD 'MOOSE* KR^VUSE and JIMMY MORSE, captain of the 1936 Irish football team. The event u-us held in the Hotel Gary on Feb. 28. 
Details of the UND Night meeting will be printed in a later issue since this magazine went to press prior to the event being held. 
Cedar Rapids 
The new president of the Cedar Rapids Club is STEVE PROVOST who succeeds CORNY STYERS. The latter has been elected club secretary. Steve was a track star at Notre Dame in 19+7-48-49 and is head of the typewriter division at IBM. 
Tlic club has been having a Communion Breakfast every other month on the fourth Sunday and at* tendance has been ver>* gratifjing. 
—C. J. STYERS. 

NEW YORK CITY—His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman 'was the recipient of the club's Lactare vestments presentation. Left to right: Joe Tracy, Club Chaplain Father Flynn, Bob Fink, Cardinal. Spellman, George Olvany, Club President Bill Fallon and Bud Mulvey. 
CLUB CALENDAR 

Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported- to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—^First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p-m.. Hotel Shera­ton, 715 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, 
N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" b reserved for lunch at 
K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buf­falo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 

CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Virginia Hotel, Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—First Wednesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High Street, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Western Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chicago. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 
7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 

FORT LAUDERDALE — Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m.. Governor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Fii^t Mon­day of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theatre, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA — Second Tues­day of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia. Pa. 
PITTSBURGH —Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pitts­burgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER—Monthly luncheon, Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Hotel Rochester, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS —Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis/ Mo., second Monday of each month. 
WASHINGTON— Weekly lunch­eon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 29 
Central New York 
The Centra] Xcw York Club liad a vcr>- success­ful Communion Breakfast at Dnmilin's Countrj-Club on December 9th, 1956. Over 100 were pres­ent including wives, parents of students, and about 25 children. ED KEXEF/VKE u^s General Chair­man. Prior to thi Breakfast, members attended a private Mass celebrated by club member, RIGHT REVEREND ROBERT E. SULLIVAX. After breakfast. Father Williim, O.F.M., Conv., /Vssistanl Provincial of the Black Franciscan Order, gave a well received talk on "The Fighting Irish*' in American histor>'. 
On Decembrr 28, 1956, ihc Alumni joined the students in a succesifui Christmx> dance at Bclle­v-uc Coimirx- Chib. TOM ROGERS, '55, was Alunmi Chairman. 
On Tuesday. February 9, 1957. a hmcheon-bnsiness meeting wi-s licld at the Hotel Syracuse's Terrace Room. Present were HOBY SHE.\X, JOHxV H. TERRY, BILL HASSETT, BILL BISER, BILL OUTER, FRxVNK C\SHIER, ED KENEFAKE, HAWLEY VAN SWALL, PHIL KELLEY, D.\N KELLEY, LEO KELLY and DICK GREENE. 
Since the ALUMNUS goes to press prior to UND Night, additional details on the meeting will be pnbli'«hed in a future issue. 
The Ladles' .Auxiliarx- held a ver>- successful card partv on Thnrjd-y. Frlirnar*.' 7th. at the Hibernian Hall, Syracuse. Mrs. BILL BISER was General Chairman. 
Tlie club had a square dance on Marcli 2 which was dedicated to Mr. and Mrs. ED CLE^VRY who have now moved 'o Phoenix, .\riz. TOM QUIN­LAN has departed for .Armed Forces service and the undersigned was elected to succeed him as secretary-treasurer. BILL BISER was chairman of the square dance event. 
—J. GARVEY JONES, Sccj.-Trcas. 
Chicago 
At our lunclienn February 4th, wc were priv­ileged to have TERRY BRENN/VN as our guest speaker wlm favored us witli a rundown on pros­pects for the 1957 season. The gathering had as its speaker Harry Creighton, prominent Chicago sports broadcaster who spoke on the prospects of the Major leagues talents and especially on the possibilities for the Cubs and White Sox. Our first out-of-town guest to attend the luncheon, held on the first Monday of every month at the Western Society of Engineers, was FRANK KELLEY, of Minneapolis. 
Tills year's celebration of UND Night promises to be something special. One of our city's ablest executives, JI.M GALL.AGHER, '29, accepted the Chairmanship and bas been hard at work since January. Jim has assembled a fast moving Com­mittee composed in part of J.ACK MORLEY, '35, 

Tickets, BUD GODA, arrangements, BILL KEN­NEDY, '37, program. Their efforts have been verv fruitful In producing a top flight program. FATHER HESBURGH has accepted the main speaker's chair ^vhlcl: is especially fitting since Jim plans to make the entire evening a special fete to Father Ted. In line with this theme several of the Presidents from the local Universities will be in attendance together with leaders of the large cor­porations and institutions which help finance pri­vate education. The committee has secured the Lake Shoic .Athletic Club main dining room with their characteristically excellent bill of fare. 
(Ed. Note: This issue went to press before UND Night—additional details in next edition.) 
—PHILIP J. F.VCCENDA, Sec>-. 
Cleveland 

Thc club's annual Rt>ckne Communion Breakfast was held on March 24th. The featured speaker was LARRY "MOON" MULLINS, star fullback during llic Rockne era and currently athletic direc­tor at Marquette. It was the club's Silver Anni­versary* RocLnc Memorial Breakfast and the Mass was celebrated by .•\rclibIshop Hoban in St. John's Cathedral. Breakfast was then scr\-ed In the main ballroom of the Hollendcn Hotel. Guests included REV. JAMES E. NORTON, C.S.C., vice-president of student affairs at Notre Dame, ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, HUNK ANDERSON, TOM CONLEY, BERT METZGER, JACK a\N'NON, FRANK LEAHY, GEORGE KOZAK and a host of other 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1957 
former stars who played under the late KNUTE ROCKNE. Co-clialrmcn of the affair were AL GRISANTI and TOM MULLIG.AN. 
llie club's annual retreat took place on Marcli 8-10 at St. Stanisl.ius House of Retreats in Parma. 
Dallas 
On February 2-lth, we held our Communion Supper. The members and their wives attended 
5:30 Mass at Christ The King church. The supper was immediately afterwards at Sammy's Restaurant RICK, C.S.C, Class of '26, gave a vcr>- interesting accouiit of his experiences as a missionary' in India. Fatlier Rick spent several years in the Far East and is presently helping to operate a boys' camp in North Central Tex is. 
The Notre Dame Women's Auxiliary- had a lunch­eon Thanday, March lAxlt, at the home of Mrs. SAM ^\'1NG, hostess. Her co-hostesses were Mrs. JOHN DARROUZET, Mrs. J. M. HAGGAR, JR., and Mrs. JOSEPH P. RUD. There was a good turnout by the members and a short business meet­ing was held aftrr the hmcheon. 
—HAL TEHAN, Secy. 
Dayton 
BUD KERR, head football coach of the Univer­sity of Dayton and former Irish grid star, W3> principal speaker at the club's Februar>- meeting. Tlie 1956 "Football Highlights' fdm was also part of the evening's program. 
Details of the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting will be published in a fortlicoming ALUM­NUS as this issue went to press prior to the event being held. 

A smoker was held Fcbrtiary 5th at Sutt­miller's Restaurant. It featured the highlights of the 1956 season. Our speaker was the University of Dayton's I lead Football Coach and a ND Alumnus, BUD KERR. 
Then on Sunday, March the 3rd, the ND 
.\uxiliar\' held a square dance and buffet dinner. 
It was a very successful affair, and over eighty 
people attended. 
The allxiliar^' is now under the capable chair­

manship of MRS. JAMES BOSCO and MRS. 
L.\\VRENCE HENKE, JR. . . . A real vote of 

appreciation should go to MRS. ROBERT HOL-
LENCvVMP for her splendid job of organizing the 
auxiliary* during the past year. Tlie board of 
directors voted Pat Logan (who is President of 
the Student Body) a $100 award for outstanding 

achievement at Notre Dame. He will graduate 
in June. 
—FRANK McBRIDE, JR., Prcs. 
Dearborn 

The N.D. Club of Dearborn has been verv active since the last edition of the ALU.M.NUS. PHYLLIS and CLE.M CONST.\N*TINE, '46, hosted a cock­tail party before the Tri-universlty dance held at the Dearborn Countrv* Chib—among the guests %vere the JERRY WAYNOS. '47, and the Dick, '37, and JI.M '50 KINGS. TOM DORE, '49, was dance chairman. The Club Dinner Dance, at Westwood Inn, was very well attended. Jim King made all the arrangements. GEORGE TOBIN, '46, DICK KING, JACK E. COURTNEY, '50, L.\RRY DOL.\N, '47, JERRY GASS and their spouses were among thi>se piesent along with many, many more. Our Stag Dinner also at the Wcst­\*ood Inn was open to members and their guests. Jerr>- Cass was chairman assisted bv BOB SULLI­V/\N, »52. JOE DOYLE, '49, of ihe South Bend Tribune was the main speaker and an excellent one, I might add. EDGAR HAYES and Georsc Van came from the Detroit papers to "cover" the affair. DICK MILLIM.VN organized our annual Day of Recollccti'jn — March 9 at Dun Scotus College. New ofiicers for the Dearborn Club rccentlv 
FORT WA'\'^'E—Dick Rosenthal, former Irish basketball star and now playing pro bas­ketball, was guest speaker at the club's smoker in March. Left to right: Rosenthal Bob Centii\Te, chairman; and Tom O'Reilly, club president. 
elected arc as (ollows; president, JERRY GASS; 
vice-president, LxVRRY DOLiVN; secrctao'-trcasurcr, 
JACK COURTNEY. Nov directors that were 
ckclcd ire GEORGE TODIN, L,\RRY DOL^VN 
and JOE BYRNE. 
—JACK E. COURTNEY. 

Delaware 
Elections will be held ven-' soon witli President 

CHARLIE \VOLKE presiding. 
WILL ANZILOTTl, not content with coaching 

his parocliial team to the football championship 
of the diocese, is now concentrating on a potential 
championship basketball team. 
JOE DIPiNTO and wife were in town recently 

visiting with grandparents. He brought news of 
Notre Dante alumni activity in and around the 
Dul'ont Savanaugh River Plant. Wc were all happy 
to hear that Joe's wife, Pat, is fully recovered. 
CREIGHTON MILLER was in town recently to 

visit with his father, HARRY, and brother, TOM. 
He shed little light on the professional representa­
tion that might be his txsk. 
—ALEX A. PETRILLO. 

Detroit 
The annual retreat was held at Manresa Jesuit 

Retreat House on tlie weekend of March 8. JIM 
SULLIVAN and JACK BREEN served as co-cliair­
nien, 
The annual meeting and past presidents night 

was on March 14 in the Botsford Inn with ALL^VN 
POWERS of the Foundation staff as guest speaker. 
Fairfield County, Conn. 
At a meeting of tiie .-Miinini Club held on March 

7, 1957, the following officers were elected: 
FR.\NC1S KOWALSKI, President. 
ROBERT GRIFFIN, Vice-President. 
WILLIAM VALUS, Secretary-. 
JOHN DWYER, Tirasnrer. 
—VINCENT A. GOR.\IAN, M.D. 

Flint 
Tlie first meeting of the year was held January 28th at the Elks Club at which 30 members were present. The highlight of the evening, of course, was the installation ot the Club's new officers. These were: 
R.VY.MOND J. KELLY, JR., President. 
JAMES SHERRY, Vice-President. 
TED MANYAK, Second Vice-President. 
VICTOR E. GEORGE, Secretary-Treasurer. 
A. S. FUHRM.VN, ARTHUR PAR.\DIS, DR. J. 

A. MACKSOOD, HERBERT JOHNSON, JR., WILLIAM A. MINARDO, DONALD F. MacDON-ALD, Directors. 
Tliis past year was considered the Club's most prosperous year, both actively and financially. This was possible only through the splendid and un­faltering leadership of our President and other officers. This year the Club, with its new officers, will strive to better last year's mark. More active mi-mbership, bigger and better events, both formal and informal ar;: a few of our goals in mind. 
The Notre Dame Club of Flint co-sponsored, with the Interclub Council of Flint Colleges, a concert by the N.D. Band recently. During the program a 'key '.o the city' was presented to Band Director Robert O'Brien by Club President Ray Kelly. 
—VICTOR E. GEORGE, Secj*. 

Fort Lauderdale 
TIic club had a vcr\* successful February* meeting which was held on St. Valentine's Day with onr wiv',-s in attendance. The affair was held at tiic Governor's Cluh In Fcrt Lauderdale, Florida. It was a diiiU'i dance and not only did wc have our regular tasty menu but corsages were furnished the wives through the generosity of our club. 
Since the meeting was a dance, no one bothered to take the attendance (the retiring Secretar\- was too exhausted from a full year's duty and the in­coming Secretar>' had not yet assumed his obliga­tions) but the members and guests were numerous and a good time was had by all. In addition, the outgoing President announced the results of our recent election and the following arc our new slate 
Ed Carey (left), President of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland and Pat Canny (right). National President of the Alumni Association, give Denny O'Neill, the Cleveland Club's 1956 Man of the Year, a hand as he presents this year's Man of the Year Award to Bill Van Rooy (second on left). 
of officers both active and honor3r\- for the year of the club we enjoyed Louis Martin Pino Nolr. 1957: .•\s you c:m sc=. the menu \vas rather International ACTIVE: GEORGE ERNST, President; FR.\NK but then we have an international membership. McDONOUGH, Vice-President; GEORGE H. The following members were present at the 
GORE, Secretary-; THEODORE T. GORE, Treas­
meeting of November 14th: 
urer. HONOR.-\RV: WILL.\RD .MOSS, President; 
JOHN H. MCGINN, FR.\NK MCGINN, R.\Y 
JIM NOLx\N, Vice-President: HAL PETERS, Sec­
DOU.MAR, JOHN a\LL.\N, JOHN SULLIV.\N, 
retary; GEORGE .McFADDEN, Treasurer. 
NICK .\L\RGARITIS, JACK DONOGHUE, 
Our March meeting was held on the 14th and 

RICHARD BAKER, JIM NOL.\N, JOHN J. 
again this was a dinner meeting at the Gov­
.McCVFFREY, TED MARBAUGH, W. A. \VIL­

ernor's Club Hotel with the following menu: 
KINSO.V, GEORGE McFADDEN, FR.\NK Shrimp Cocktail Supreme KAISER, GEORGE J. ERNST, P.AT LYNCH, JOE Cannard Rotie St. .Antolne with Sauce Cointreau aVNOUSE, JACK LYONS, BOB CONNESS, AL SOUCICVR, BILL .MAUS, JR.. BILL McVLPINE, 
.(\spergc Polonaise Candled Yams 

AL THIBIDORE, DICK WHALEN. WILLUM 
Panama Salad 

K. McGOWAN (guest), TED GORE, J.\.MES P. 
Swiss Chocolate Pie Coffee Diablo HALEY, R. H. GORE, JR., FR^\NK McDON­and, of course, with the dinner with compliments OUGH, MONSIGNOR ALLIS, Chaplain. 
DENVER—A guest at a recent Denver alumni meeting was Frank Leahy, former head foot­ball coach of the Fighting Irish. Left to right: Leon Archer; Club president .Art Gregory; Leahy; and Fred \V. Gushurst, Sr. The dinner was held at the American Legion Post on Feb. 28. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June^ 1957 31 
Since it was a business mectins we naturally meeung to be held April 29 at the Pearl Harbor ROBERT GORSKI, Treasurer. conducted some business which included the elec­Officers Club. 
JOSEPH ADLER, Secretary. 

tion of n=w associate members, they being: S. F. McGINN. BRENDAN GALLAGHER and JOHN BURKE, all good Irishmen. In adcUtion, tlie final terms were worked out for the Southeast conven­tion, slated for May 3, 4 and 5. DICK W'HALEN was appointed Chairman for the Bridge Tourna­ment and ^MLLARD MOSS and ED KELLY were appointed the znidnight chefs for the barbecue Fri­day at midnight or Saturday at 12:01 whichever you prefer. FITZ GORE was named Chainnan of the Golf Tournament and HAL PETERS Chairman of the Shuffleboard Tournament, and GEORGE ERNST, our distinguished President, was elected General Chairman ol the Entertainment Committee, whereupon he stated it was his hope to have some international entertainment available at tlic con­vention, probably from the island of Hawaii. Never shall it be said that the Fort Lauderdale club will ex'cr be outdone by our metropolitan brothers. In fact, our slogan has become **Onward, Ever Onward." 
—GEORGE H. GORE, Sec>-, 
Fort Wayne 

The club's annual Day of Recollection was held on March 31 at the Crosier House of Studies. Co^iairmcn of the event were TOM O'REILLY, JOE DANIEL and JI.M McCLLVTOCK. 
Tlie club held c. smoker in the Social Room of the Centlivre Bre%ving Corporation on March 1. BOB CENTL1\'RE served as chairman of the affair and again we are appieciative for the Brewery's generosity. DICK ROSENTHAL, who has returned to Fort Wayne since Ids release from the service, spoke to the members present about some of his basketball experiences both with Notre Dame and the Fort ^Vayne Pistons professional basketball team. 
—ROBERT J. KLINGENBERGER, Sco*. 

Hawaii 
The club held an election of officers at a meeting on March 12. Officers for the coming vear arc as follo»-s: HARRY MEDEIROS, '53, president (re­elected); WALTER TAGAWA, '52, wcc-presidcnt (re-elected); HAR\'EY LUNG, '53, secrelar>-; and RICHARD LEONG, '54, treasurer. Officers will be installed at the Universal Notre Dame Xight 
—BILL • HANIFIN. 

Indianapolis 
Tlie Indianapolb Club of Noire Dame recently 

presented a $500 check to the Notre Dame Club 
of Indianapolis for its scholarship fund. 
Jake Kicfer, campus club president, made the 

presentation to JIM ROCiVP, head of the alumni 
club in the HoosJer capital. The clicck represented 
proceeds froir the students' annual Christmas dance 
in Indianapolb. 
Each year the alumn! of the Indianapolis area 

award four 5500 scliolirahips to Notre Dame. 
Italy 
The Notre Dam- Roman Legion had a healthy turnout for the Communion Sunday on December 9th. As with last year we were the guests of FATHERS RANSING and HESTON at Holy Cross Gcncralatc and International College, 
Fatlier Heston preached to the .\lmnni at a Solemn High Mass celebrated by REV. J. F. HOFFMAN, C.S.C., ^D '51, assisted by REV. 
L. J. MERTENSOTTO, C.S.C., ND '53, as Deacon and REV. PHILIP DEVLIN, C.S.C., ND '53 as Sub-deacon. As a recessional a speaal choir of Holy Cross seminarians sang **Notre Dame Our Mother" with great eclat. 
^Vhilc wc breakfasted informally a reWew of the year's \TsItors, corrcspoudcnce and events \%*as made. TTiis revealed a goodly tradic and leads us to renew our ivord of welcome to^vard all NDcrs who arc headed for Rome. 
—VINCE McALOON, '34. 

Joliet 
AVc held our first meeting of the nc%>r year at the home of D.AN KENNEDY. Tlie following ND members were present: DAN KENNEDY, MIKE CONWAY, ERNIE ZALEJSKI, RAY TRIZNA, JOE STENGELE, EDW.\RD D'.ARCY, CHARLES BROWN, FRED HENEGHAN, JOHN HORRI­GAN, JOE ADLER, JOHN COMEFORD and myself. Election of officers v*-as held and the follou-ing were elected for the 1957 year: 
DOMINIC F. BOETTO, President. 
MARTIN GLE:\SO.\% Vice-President. 
—DOMINIC F. BOETTO, Prcs. 

Kansas City 
The Indies .Auxiliary- of. the Notre Dame Club presented a check for $1,000_ at their Januar>­lunclieon, to Club President RUSS FARRELL for the Scholarship Fund. Knee 1953 the ladies have raised $6,000 for sdiolarships, now knou*n as the William Rockhill Nelson Scholarship Fund. Plaques were given on behalf of the University to the tliree past presidents of ih- Auxtliar>-, namely, MRS. KATHLEEN .NfcLEESE, MRS. .MARY ANTHTAK­ER and MRS. T. F. O'.MALLEY. 
LaCrosse 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held last December 9th at the ^lonastcrv' of the Sisters of St. Dominic in LaCrosse. 
The group was addressed by FATHER TOM NINNEMAN and later tickets were distributed to club members for the Annual Christmas Formal Dance. 
At this meeting it u-as also voted upon to collect annual club dues and issue membership cards. —JxVMES L. KRONER, Seo*. 
Lehigh Valley 
Activities for 1956 were as follows: 
1.
 June 22, 1956—Meeting called by LEO Mc-IN*TYRE at Hotel Bethlehem. Attendance excellent and plans made for club to become active again. 

2.
 July 20, 1956—Monthly meeting held at West End Hotel, Allcntown. Attendance good and plans made for certain social events. 

3.
 .August 25, 195G—Family picnic held. .Attend­ance excellent and good time had by all. 

4.
 September 21, 1956—Regular monthly meeting held at West End Hotel. Election of officers with following results: 


DR. LOUIS T. GABRIEL, JR., President. JA.MES WALSH, First Wee President. JOHN SLMITZ, JR., Second Vice President. ROBERT GREENE, Treasurer. LOUIS J. WYNNE, Sccretarj-. DAVID LANGLEY Sergeant-at-arms. 
DETROIT—The head table at the Detroit Club's annual meeting included, from left to right; John W. Brcnnan, Class Vice President of the Jf.D. Alumni Association; Allan Powers, N.D. Foundation Area Director; treasurer Joseph Carey; Ed Gage, vice president of the local club; C. M. Verbiest, State Foundation Governor of Michigan and toastmastcr of the dinner; and James Byrne, president. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
Mohawk Valley 
FLINT—The Notre Dame Band played a concert in Flint, Mich., which was sponsored by the aiumni club and the Interclub Council of Flint Colleges, From left to right: Michael 
J. Gorman, editor of the Flint Journal, who was a *key man' in scheduling the Irish 55-picce musical organization; Band Director Robert O'Brien; Frank J. Manley, recipient of the alumni club's *Man of the Year' award in 1956; and Club President Raymond J. Kelly, Jr. 
LEO R. McINTYRE, Chairman of the executive boarc. MAURICE OLSON, Member of the executive board. ROBERT STRxVUB, Member of the executive board ATTY. THOM^VS LENNOX, Member of the executive board. DR. EDWARD J. LYONS, Member of the ex­ecutive board. 
5. October 19, 1956—Regular monthly meeting held at the home of the club president, Dr. Louis 
T. Gabriel, Jr. Attendance good and plans made for obsen-ing Notre Dame Universal Communion Sunday. 
6.
 December 9, 1956—^Notre Dame Universal Com­munion Sunday obscr\-ed wt h Solemn High Mass at Mary Immaculate Scminarj*. Breakfast followed 

at Hotel Bethlehem with Rev. Bernard Rbtuccia. C.^L, as speaker. Attendance was excellent and obsen'ancc was most successful. 

7.
 December 29, 1956—First annual holiday re­ception for present undergraduate students, parents and friends held in Club Livingston, ^Ulcntown, PcnnsyK'ania. Attendance was excellent and the afTair was most successful. 


—LOUIS J. WYNNE, Sec^-. 
Miami 

FATHER THOM/\S O'DONNELL, C.S.C, and JIM FRICK from the Foundation oflicc were guests at the club's meeting held in February-. 
Dctaib of the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting with the Ft. Lauderdale club were un­available as this issue of the ALUMNUS went to press prior to the event being held. Additional news on it in a forthcoming issue. 
Michigan City 
The newly elected officers are: 
President, DR. JOSEPH A. BERG,\X. Vice-President. LOUIS E. BLACK. Secretar\-, DONALD F. WENTLAND. Treasurer, \\1LLL\M J. PRIEBE. 

EDWARD J. DWYER, who will soon leave the city to go into business in Syracuse, Xcw York, was named Honorary President. 
The new officers were inducted at the annual "Grass Hopper Frolic" on January 26, 1957. 

Tlie activities for the past year included the an­nual "Grass Hoppjr Frolic," Universal Notre Dame Night, the "Irbh Greens" golf party, and Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. 
Wc plan on continuing the same actintics this year in addition to the football trip to Lafayette, Indiana, for the Purdue game. 
—J. A. BERGAN. 
BILL JOHNSON, who graduated in 1929 in 

Chemical Engineering, passed away a month or so 
ago. Bill %%'orked for Inland Steel ever since his 
graduation. He was married, bad three childreD 
and lived in the Wdnity of Indiana Harbor. His 
remains came here to Utica and he was buried in 
Mount Olivet Cemetery. CHARLIE HITZELBER. 
GER, VIN. FLETCHER and myself were amons 
the bearers. Incidentally his roommate CHARLIE 
McDERMOTT passed away a year ago. 
Our Universal Communion Breakfast was a huge success. We had over 50 in attendance and the-mote remarkable as the Sunday morning' of the-breakfast we had a terriflc blizzard. DOCTOR SHAUGHNESSY brought the assbtant pastor of his Church in Herkimer, Father Guerra. 
We had our annual Christmas dance at Trinkaus 

Afanor in conjunction vdth the undergraduates. 
There were mere than 200 people in attendance 
at that afTair ^vhich by far is the best we have 
had in many years. 
Recently while making^ an audit of a local firm 

I met BOB CUM.MIXGS, class of 1948, a partner 
in t'ic accounting firm of Peat, Marwick and 
Mitchell; also BOB LOGAN, class of 1950, I believe, 
who is a supervisor with the same firm. 
Our last meeting was one held with the wives of those men who could attend. Wc were amazed at the amount of business that was taken care of and also the grand assistance rendered by the fair sex. DOCTORS SHAUGHNESSY and GAVAGAN, CHARLIE HTTZELBERGER, LOU CLARK, TONY GIRUZZI and myself were in attendance together with our wives. 
Recently %vc had the Football Highlights of I95S which were shown at the City Club through the courtesy of DOCTOR MARINO who operated his moWe machine for the entertainment of all. CHARLIE HTTZELBERGER had as his guest ART SESTTTO who played center on the team around 1948 or thereabouts. 
Also present were TONY GIRUZZI, VIS FLETCHER. RAY BELDEN, GEORGE HAME­LINE, LOU CLARK, ED S^VEENEY, BART O'SHEA, DOCTOR SHAUGHNESSY, DOCTOR MARION and DOCTOR GAVAGAN, TONY KAUFF.>£AN, FRANK I>ONALTY, AHKE »fc-GUIRL, DAN W^ATERBURY. BILL DIN^EEN^ DON FULLEM and many friends and fathers of the undergraduates. 
DOCTOR SHAUGHNESSY announced that he and his family are laking a European trip in April and will be gone six weeks. 
—EDWARD J. SWEENEY, 1930. 

WILLIAMSPORT—The 'couple of the year* was named by Williamsport alumni at a recent club meeting. Mr. and Mrs. Frank Hayes received the honor. Left to right: John B. Will­niann, who made the presentation; President-elect F. B. Lundy; Hayes; retiring President Harry Krimm; and (sitting) Mrs. Hayes. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 33 
ROCKFORD—Guests at a recent club meeting included (left to right): Phil Carey; President Frank Sweeney; Rev. Joseph Reikas; Most Rev. Loras Lane, Bishop of Rockford; James Dunn; Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., of the Province Development staff stationed at Notre Dame; and Len Condon. 
New Jersey 
On Tuesday^ February 26, 1957, over 100 Notre Dame graduates and friends of Notre Dame gatli­ercd together for tlicir scncral meeting and were guests of P. Ballantinc and Sons, Newark, N. J. 
This meeting was a tremendous success and through the cooperation of the Ballantinc people an interesting tour of the plant was conducted, after tvhich refreshments %vcre served. 
It was great to sec sucli former athletes as AN­GELO BERTKLLI, FRxVNK TRI PUCKA, HARRY STEVENSON, BILL REGAN, JOE McKEON, FRANK McDERMITT, JOHN AVINBERRY and others in attendance. Our diairman for this event, RA^'MOND TROY, did a tremendous job and it appears tliat this will be an annual event. 
Since the ALUMNUS goes to press before UNT) Night details of this meeting will he published in another issue. 
—JOHN KELLY. 

New York City 
AMLLIAM H. FALLON, last year's winner of the Notre Dame Man of the Year Award, was elected President of the Notre Dame Club of New York dt a Club meeting held at the N.Y.A.C. on January 23, 1957. 
Mr. Fallon, a New Rochellc, N. Y., resident, associated with a Larclimont auto dealer, for the past three years a Vice President of the Club, which has more than 2500 alumni members in tlie greater New York area_ lias been on the Board of Directors for live years, and is presently Chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation of Westchester. Upon gradu::ii3n from lona Preparatory School, he went to Notre Dame, where he was Captain of the Tennis Team and Manager of the Football Team. In World War 11, he enlisted as a Pri\-atc and 
•was dicshargcd as 2. Major. 
Bill is a Vice President of the Tennis Club of tlic N.Y.A.C. and a member of the American Legion Post 754, B.P.O. Elks Lodge 756, and the Seventh Regiment Association. 
Other ofEccrs elected for the year 1957 include: Executive Vice President: ANTHONY EARLEY, of Garden City, L. I. 
Vice Presidents: GEORGE O'NEIL, of Pelham, 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 
N. Y., in cliarge of the Westcliesier Chapter; JO­SEPH A. TRAC:\% of Crestwood, N. Y.; GEORGE OLVANY, of Garden Citv, L. I.; JAMES SHIELDS, of New York City; WILLIAM O'CON­NOR, of Garden City. L .1. 
STEPHEN ^\\ MULVEY, of Tuckalioe, N. Y. was elected Secretary-, and ROBERT REALE, of Tarr>'town, N. Y.. was re-elected Treasurer. The new Chaplain will be Uie REV. CRONIN F. KELLY, O.F.M. 
Tentative calendar of events: June 12, Board Meeting; July 2, Baseball at Ebbcts Field, Brook-KTI, N . Y. ; August 14, Board Meeting; Augmt, Golf Outing; September 11, Smoker and Board Meeting; September, Kickoff Meeting; October 9, Board ifceting; October, Football Trip (Army); November, Trust Fund; S'ovember 13, Board Meet-
Bill Fallon, '37, new president of the New York City Almnni Club. 
1957 

ing; November 20, Nominators Meeting; December 4, Board Meeting; December 9, Communion Break­fast; January 8, Board Meeting; January 16, An­nual Meeting. 
Tlie Ladies' Auxiliary met for luncheon at the Town and Country Restaurant on March 2nd. Mrs. GEORGE OL^^\NY \vas in charge of rcscnations. 
North Florida 
We held our annual Communion Breakfast on December 9 at the Roosevelt Hotel after attending Mass and receiving Holy Communion at the Church of the Immaculate Conception. Approximately 25 people attended and Lcard Father Danaltcr, presi­dent of Bishop Kenny High School, give an in­spiring talk. 
The first meeting of the new year was held on Januar>' 29 at Bishop Kenny High School. Prelim­inary plans for Universal Notre Dame Night were discussed and SAM LxVWLER was appointed chair­man for thts ycar*s UND Night celebration. DICK BRODEUR, president; JOE HARTZER, vice-presi­dent; and JERRY JOHNSON, secretary-treasurer, all began their second year of their two-year tenure of odice. 
On Febrtiar>* 27 the regular monthly meeting was held in the Florida Theatre Building through the courtesy of LOU FINSKE. The Florida Theatre providcl refreshments and then treated us to a sneak preview in their private projection room. 
FRED RAHAIM represented our club at the statewide meeting of the Foundation held in Orlando on Feb. 16. 
—JOHN F. CORRIGAN. 

Philadelphia 
Details of Universal Notre Dame Night, with FATHER JOHN J. aVVANAUGH, C.S.C., as guest spcikcr, will be published in a forthcoming issue of the ALUMNUS since tJie magazine is scheduled for a press run prior to the date of this meeting. 
Tlie annual retreat was held at Malvern on the \*cekend of ^tardl 22. 
Other events on the calendar for 1957 include: 
June—picnic. 
Sept. 9 monthly meeting and back-to-campus party. 
Oct. 8—monthly meeting.  far behind with a tag which mdicatcs '^i<D 39.*'  (or thrJc years. The scholarship award given aajiu- 
Oct. 11—rally for ND-^\rmy game.  Details of Universal Notre Dame Night featuring  ally by the Rockford Club will be called: "The  
Nov. 12—monthly meeting.  JIM ARMSTRONG as guest speaker will be pub­ John J. Wahl, Jr. Memorial Sdiolarship Award."  
Dec. 8—^Annual Communion Breakfast.  lished in a later edition inasmuch as this issue  JOSEPH W. BORGES, Secy.  
Dec. 10—monthly meeting.  goes to press prior to the event.  
Mr. and Mn . JOE DOORLEY have been blessed  

Xcw club officers arc: 
WALTER GROTHx\US, president. 
JOHN MOORHE.VD, vice-president. 
JOHN NEESON, treasurer. 
JOSEPH WHITE, secretary-. 
H.\ROLD DUKE, assistant secretary. 
Pittsburgh 
Msgr. Jolin B. McDowell, superintendent of schools in the Diocese of Pittsburgh, was speaker at the club*s Universal Notre Dame Communion Break­fast held oil March 10. The Mass was celebrated in St. PauFs Cathedral and the breakfast ^v-as sen-ed in Hotel Webster Hall. LEE KIRBY was chainnar. ni the event. 
Puerto Rico 
AIumr.i in Puerto Rico were honored recently with a visit bv FATHER HESBURGH. Mr. and Mrs. ALFREDO TORRUELL.\ entertained Father at a dinner in their home along with \'arious other guests. After Father's return from Ponce on Saturday evening the local alumni group spon­sored a dinner at the Swiss Chalet in Santurce. Guest speakers were Father Hcsburgh, the ^fost Rev. Edward MacManus, Bishop of Poncc, and FERNANDO H. USERx\. The guests included parents of present Notre Dame students and prin­cipals of the local parochial high schools. 
PAUL McM/VNUS was in charge of invitations, ROBERT FORBES and GEORGE AFFKEN were members of the Bnancc committee, and JUiVN CIN­TRON was master of ceremonies. 
The following alumni and their wives were pres­ent at the dinner: FERN^VNDO H. USERA, GEORGE AFFKEN, PAUL McNLVNUS, ROBERT FORBES, ROBERT BYRNE, JUAN CINTRON, OVRLOS LAZARO. aVRLOS COLON, MIGUEL SASTRE. ^VIso present w^ JULIO VIZa\R­RONDO. 
—JUAN CINTRON. 
Rhode island 
JIM MURPHY has recently opened a law office in Warren, Rhod? Island. Incidentally, Jim has a license plate this year whicli reads "ND 49." How­ever, JOE McDOXALD, \-ice-president, isn*t loo 

CENTRAL NEW YORK—A highly successful Communion Breakfast in Syracuse. 
with a new son. 
We are glad to know that Joe McDonald's father has recovered quite well from a recent illness. 
JULES GOLDSTEIN, one of Notre Damc*s oldest alumni, is coming along very nicely after a severe bout with jaundice. 
RONNIE RENE^ '53, will be discharged from the 5er\*icc in August and plans to be married soon afterwards. BOB ADAMS, '54, is engaged to Mar>* Pat Shea—the wedding is to be this summer. 
ED DENNING, '50, is the architect for the Warren, R. I., new high school. Capt. MIKE MAHONEY, '49, h, back in the Afarincs. He js ser\'ing as public information officer on Parris Island. 
—PAUL HOEFFLER. 

Rochester 
The football highlights film was shown on Feb. 27 at a club meeting in the University Club. De­tails of the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting, fealuriiij FATHER HESBURGH as guest speaker, will be published in a forthcoming issue of the jUumnus since this edition went to press prior to the event. 
Rockford 

In January, a Sport Smoker was held at the University Club. Guest speaker was Jim Finks. Highlights of the 1956 Irish season were shown. Elections were held at a dinner that preceded the smoker. The officers for 1957 are as follows: 
President, J^V.MES H. DUNN, JR. 
Vice-President, PHIL a\REY. 
\'ice-Presidcnt, DR. F. J. LO\\'NIK. 
Secretary-, JOSEPH W. BORGES. 
Treasurer, AL &\RROLL. 

The Board of Directors is composed as follows: Dirccton. for one vear: ROBERT DOYLE, JACK McKINSTRiV, AL CxVRROLL; directors for two vears: FR^VXK SWEENEY, PHIL a\REY, DR. 
F. J. LOUTVIK; directors for three years: JOSEPH 
W. BORGES, J.VMES H. DUNN, JR., CLIFF HYL.\ND. 
In February, JOHN J. WAHL, JR. (class of 1943) died. He was President of the Rockford Club in 1955 and served on the Board of Directors 
 event on the club program was the Family  /\s indicated in the photo 'alumni 
children' were much in evidence. 
St. Joseph Valley 
JACK ELDER, star end on Fighting Irish grid teanu in the late 1920's, ivas principal speaker at the club's annual Rockne Communion Breakfast. The Mass was celebrated in Dillon Hall and the breakfast served in the Morrb Inn. BOB HOLMES was chairman of the affair which again proved to be one of tht: club's outstanding events on the annual program. 
As this issue goes to press details are unavail­able regarding UND Night with the exception that FATHER HESBURGH will be the principal speaker and JACK J^lNOWSKt has been named chairman. Complete story in next edition. 
Tlie Old Timers game, source of the St. Joe Club's scholarship funds, was played in the Notre Dame Stadium on April 13. DON FISHER «-as in charge of ticket distribution. 
St. Louis 
Mumnl Scc^ctar^• JIM ARMSTRONG was guest speaker at the club's 'spring stag* held in March. PATRICK 0*MEAR:V served as chairman and RICH/VRD SAYERS was Wce-chaJrman. 
Since the ALUMNUS ^vill go to press before Universal Notre Dame Night details of that meeting will be published in a forthcoming issue. 
The annual retreat ^vas on May I(H2 at the new retreat house on the Notre Dome campus. JOHN SULLIVAN i^-as in charge of the event and VINCE FEHLIG was vice-chairman. 
San Diego 
HOWARD BEILSTEIN, '47, WTIS elected presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of San Diego at the annual election meeting in the -home of the retjnns president, HARRY MONAHAN, *50, on March 4. 
Others elected for the new term were: THO^L%S CARTER, '51, WC2 president; W. R. (BILL) VANGEN, '49 secretary; RICHARD DEREN­TRAL, '51, treasurer; RT. REV. FRANCIS C. OTT, '17, chaplain. Monahan and G. R. BILL, '29, were named to the club's board of directors. 
The club co-sponsored with St. .Augmlinc High Scliool for the third year the .Appreciation Night Banquet honoring the high school coaches and administrators of San .Diego County on Jan. 31. 
The Very Rev. John R. Aherne, O.S.A., St. Augustine principal, took the opportunity at the banquet to publicly commend the club and other civic leaders for their assistance in the four-year campaign which was culminated last winter with St. Augustine's entry Into the City Prep League for sports competition. 
The UND Night banquet report ivill be pnotcd in a future issue of the ALUMNUS since magazine deadline conflicted with date of club dinner. 
—Hi\RRY MONAH.AX. 

South Carolina 
The South Carolina Club had a very successful and enjoyable social and business meeting in Co­lumbia, S. C , on St. Pat's Day. The meeting was well attended by members from all over the state of South CaroIiQC. 
This was the first birthday of the South Carolina Club and with it being St. Pat's Day also, spirits were high and the future bright. Overcoming such obstacles as statewide distribution of members, statewide communication, and the fact that the club is oaly one year old, the S. C. Club has grown rapidly in membership and actinties. 
—J. J. CONDON, Secy. 

Southeostern Iowa 
The Notre Dame Club of Southeastern Iowa met at tlie Burlington Golf Club at Burlington, lowa^ for a dinner meeting, February 28th, w^th Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD RILEY host and hostess. Due to the absence of the President, DR. DONAL 
C. PETERSEN, ROL.AND J. MERTEL presided. Twenty-nine members attended the meeting. The 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1957 35 
Club was organized late last stunmcr at the home of Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. DAILEY, JR., and now has 46 members. The membcre come from Burling­ton, ML. Pleasant, Keokuk, Washington and Ft. Madison, 
Terre Haute 
Detaili of Universal Xotre Danic Night will be printed in the next issue as this edition went to press prior to the event on .^pril 29. PRUIE CAV­ENDAR, JOHN BOYER and PAUL ^URIETTA were in diarge of the occasion. Every member of the club has been enrolled in the Confraternity of the Immaculat= Conception and received their membership cards. The regular monthly meeting was held on March 7th. Plans for a Bingo Party were discussed by club members. The profit will be used to help finance the plaque the club is plaiming to present to the outstanding athlete of Schulte Calliolic High Sdiool. 
—JIM BOYER, Secy. 
Toledo 
The Toledo Club held its annual Communion Breakfast on April H, at the Park Lane Hotel in Toledo. Chairman RUSS LONGON was in charge of the event. 
The annual retreat >*-as held on the evenings of April 15, 16 and 17 in Holy Week at the Francbcan Friar\' in Toledo. 
JACK BECKAM, '50, served as chairman of the Toledo Club's Universal Notre Dame Night. The affait was on the evening of Wednesday, May 1st, at the Commodore- Perry Hotel in Toledo. Rev. ALFRED MENDEZ, CS.C , was the guest speaker. 
FRAN'CIS PIETRYKO\VSKI was recently ap­pointed Clerk of Courts of Lucas County, Ohio. He is a graduate of Notre Dame*s Law School. 
FRAN'CIS SEMETKO, '52, became the proud father of two sets of heiJtliy twins \vithln one calendar year. 
—JA.MES F. GARVIN, Scc>*. 
Twin Cities 
In November, 1955, tlic Annual Almnm Club Dinner was held at the Town and Country' Club in St. Paul, with approximately 100 alumni and guests in attendance. Several days prior to the dinner, new officers bad been elected as follows: HAROLD J. SODERBERG, '49, President; JAMES 
C. ROGERS, *53, Vice-President; JAMES C. NOONAN, '53, Secretary, and JEROME V. BLATZ, Treasurer. The officers outlined plans for the club's actiWiics for the coming year. ALI*.\N POWERS and the REV. JOHN J- CWANAUGH, Director of the University of Notre Dame Foun­dation, represented the University, with Father Ca^'anaugh delivering the featured address. Father Cavanaugh explained for the alumni the present and projected expansion program of the University. 
On December 8^ 1956, the alumni attended Mass in the Chapel of* St. Thomas College. Mass was celebrated by the Rev. James P. Shannon, nc%vly appointed president of the college. The sermon was delivered by the Rc\*. ^Valtcr Peters, instructor in the Department of Religion. Following the Mass, a Communion breakfast was held In 0'Shau5hness\- Hall. Dr. Frederick FI%Tin, Chair­man of the Department of Philosophy at St. Thomas Colfcge, discussed with the alumni seme concepts of modem philosophy. 
Tile .Annual Christmas Ball was held on December 29th at the Radisson Hotel where 400 alumni and guests enjoyed the holiday festiWtics. Past presi­dents of the Twin Cities .'Mumni Club were honored for tlicir leadership In club activities. Sixteen of the 22 foru^r presidents were in attendance for this special ceremonv. The dance was planned and di­rected by ROBERT REG.AN; all who were there attestea to its success. 

Tliis year the present officers arc planning several informal family-style alumni gatherings. The first of these was a Splash party held on March 1, 1957, at the Wilder Swimming Poo] In St. Paul. Those who attended enjoyed themselves immcnsely­and indicUed their desire to have more such actlWtles. 
The Annual St. Patrick's Day party was held on Sunday, March 17, 1957, at the home of Jerry Soderberg, this year's president. Jerry and his wife, Marlys, were most courageous in inviting such a thirsty group to thilr home, but adequate re­freshments were furnished by the litinnesota Brew­
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 2957 
ing Company through the compliments of Mr. Ray Fox. A late supper ^*-as served and needless to say a good time was had by all. 
—JAMES C NOONAN, Secy. 
Wabash Valley 
Last fall we had a golf outing at the Fowler 
Countrv Club at Fowler, Indiana, under the co-
chairmanship of PAUL KENNEDY and JO CA.M­
P.\GNA. fiien; was golf, a fine dinner and the 
usual get-together in tlic evening. The turnout 
wasn't as good as was expected, but those that 
did show up had a fine time. 
Tlien during the holiday season we had our 
annual dinner dance with the St. Mary's Alumnae 
from the area. Tlit: club officers, TED BUMBLE­
BURG, JIM GLASER, TO.M FALLON and the 
Writer served as the ND committee, ablv assisted 
by JO ifacDONALD, wife of RICHARD Mac-
DONALD. Again we had a fine turnout for what 
Itas turned out to be our most successful event 
of the season. Wt had our session at the Elks 
Country Club in Laiiiyctic, with everyone having 
a good time. 
We are proud to announce that BOB MOHL­
MAN, our man of the year in 1955, was elected 
as a direct of the Greater Lafayette Chamber 
of Commerce. 
We were saddened to hear of the death of the 
mother of D.WID KORTY. 
.A. change was made in our constitution at a 
regular meeting in whicli we cltanged the election 
of officers from a January meeting to Universal 
Notre Dame Night. That should put us in line 
with the other clubs, and will probably generate 
a little mere interest in who is guiding the club 
in the future. 
Several of the members of the club have repre­sented tlie University in local high school college day ceremonici to try to interest prospective stu­dents in tlie University. 
^fany of U5 around Lafayette were quite enthused over tlic appointment of Henry Stram to the coaching staff at the University, for the feeling Is that he is a fine man and will do an excellent job. 
—BILL RUNGE. 
Washington, D. C. 
COLONEL JOHN HINKEL, public relations consultant, was guest speaker at the club's business meeting on Feb. 5 in the Carlton Hotel. The football film, 'Highlights of 1956,* was also shown. 
Details of Universal Notre Dame Night will be printed In a future Issue since this edition went to press prior to the event being held. 
West Virginia 
Congratulations to W. J. MINGES, '42, on his 
recent promotion to Assistant Director, Engineering 
Department, Carbid'. and Caibon Chemicals Com­
pany. 
Welcome to J. C. ALDERM/\N, student at the 
University during 1931-36 and congratulations on his 
promotion to Product Manager, Design and Con­
struction Department, Carbide. 
Congratulations also to J. C. NORTON, '28, on 
his recent promotion. 
—L.\RRY HESS, Sect-. 
Western Washington 
The club's winter smoker was held on Feb. 21 
with George Briggs, athletic director at the Uni­
versity of U'ashington, as principal speaker. The 
meeting was in the spacious basement bistro' of 
Presldcr.t BEN LENOUE's home. 
Details of the Universal Notre Dame meeting 
with FATHER ARTHUR HOPE, CS.C , as guest 
speaker, will be published In a forthcoming issue 
of the ALUifNUS as this edition went to press 
prior to the event being held. 
Williamsport 
FRtVNK B. LUNDY, a recent graduate now 
sening in the army, was installed as president of 
the Williamsport Area Notre Dame Club at the 
annual dinner held at the IVoman's Club. He 
succeeds HARRY J. KRIM.M. 
DR. W1LLL\M T. FORD was named \ice presi­
dent, and JOHN B. WILLMANN, secretary-
treasurer. 

Fifty persons attended the dinner which also was the cccasion for an award as *'Notre Dame couple of the Year" to Mr. and Nfrs. FR^VNK C. HAYES. The club annually honors an alumnus. However, this joint tribute was paid to the couple, because Mrs. Hayes has been a devoted worker for the club. 
Mr. Hayes is a past president. 

JACK LOSCH, home after playing his first pro­fessional football season with the Green Bay Pack­ers, was the speaker. He discussed the opportuni­ties which ^vcre made available to him through football and how much he sttll enjoys playing the game. Jack said he will be called to acti%'e duty with the Air Force in Alarcli. 
Among alumni present were FATHER THOMAS CULHANE, who Is visiting this dty, and HARRY 
E. KENNEDY, a native of Jerse>- Shore, who is home on a holiday from his soft drink position in South America. 
ITALY—^Notre Dame alumtii and friends in Rome observed Universal Conmiunion Sunday with a Mass and breakfast. Seated (left to right): Alfonso and Mrs. Tufano, TWA, Rome; Father Bernard E. Ransing, C.S.C.; Father Edward L. Hcston, CS.C; Pat and Mrs. Gleason. Standing (left to right): Bob Cavanaugh, Rev. Edw. Farrell, Rev. Thomas Kramer, Rev. James Murphy, O.P.; Vincc McAIoon, Bill Crimmins, Brother Loyola, CS.C; Rev. Laurence MuUins, Brother Raymond, C.S.C; Rev. Michael Rozamo, Rev. Keith Hoscy, Rev. Robert C>nlin, Rev. Kevin O'Rourke, O.P.; Rev. Roland Pratt, Rev. Jeremiah Reedy, Rev. James Crowe, Rev, Joseph James. 
Engagements 

Xtfas Patrica J. Slica and -MAURICE L. SMITH, JR., '49. Mbs Marj- Rose Drcclisler and ROBERT T. STOCK, '30. Miss Donna Thcrcsc O'Dca and JOHN L. COX-' NELL, JR., '31. . Miss Donna Maria Scliiappacassc and JOSEPH B. JOYCE, '34. Miss Christina Dorothy Coylc and THOMAS R. O'CONNELL, '34. -Miss Faith Lvnn Ritchie and CHARLES R. DURYEA III, '33. Miss Barbara Ann Turk and NORBERT J. GiVSSENSMITH, '53. Miss Elizabeth Mason Cross and LAWRENCE 
S. KENNEDY, JR., '55. 
Marriages 

Miss Marie Mcsdiiari and JOHN C. KRUEGER, '49, Pari, France, March 2, 1957. Miss Sally D. Ramp and DR. THOM/VS A. FEDOR, '52. Marion, Ind., November 22, 1956. -Miss Johnine Perllc and AVALTER it. L,1NG­FORD, JR., '35, Houston, Texas, August 11, 1956. 
Miss Barbara Camillc Schcttig and JOHN W. BRENN/\N, JR., '36, Ebcnsburg, Pa., December 29, 1956. 
Miss Karen Javne Miller and ROBERT G. HANDSHAW, '36, South Bend, Ind., Januarj- 26, 1937. 
Miss Dolores Voordc and JOHN G. •McMULL,\N, JR., '36, Notre Dame, Ind., Januar>- 12, 1937. ^Ibs Dolores .\nn Zumslcg and CARL J. SCHERER, '35, Quincj-, III., Fcbntary 16, 1937. 
Miss Kathr^n E. Rickclman and JOHN F. WIN­DOLPH, JR., '36, Notre Dame, Ind., January 26, 1937. 
Births 

-Mr. anl -Mrs. JERO.ME J. CROWLEY, '31, a son, February 25." Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD G. LEJEUNE, '33, a daughter, Kathleen Erin, February 3. Mr. and Mrs. WLFRED J. HUSSEY, '41, a son, Stephen John, February' 6. Mr. and Mrs. FR,\NCIS B. KENNEDY, JR., '41, a son, Scott Patrick, December 14, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH T. NEEN<\N, '41, a son, Robert Patrick, February' 26. Mr. and -Mrs. J.VMES F. PLTRCELL, '42, a daughter, Alannea, February 20. Mr. and .Mrs JAMES J. RICE, '42, a daughter, Ann Teresa, January 28. .Mr. and Mrs. HARRY J. McKNIGHT, JR., '43, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, March 1. Mr. and Mis. EDWARD C. RONEY, JR., '43, a son, Stephen John, February 8. Mr. and .Mrs. WILLIAM E. O'NEIL, '46, a son, Paul Ford, Mav 4, 1936. Mr. and Mrj. FRANK A. BR,\DY, JR., '47, a daughter, Baniara Sara. February 14. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. COSGROVE, '47, a son, Gregg James, January I. -Mr. and -Mrs. JAMES E. .MURPHi', '47, a son, Michael, February' 16. Mr. and Mrs. WILLLVM H. COMSTOCK, '48, a son, William Tliomas, December 28, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. L,\URENCE J. RAVILLE, '48, a daughter, Adrienne Ann, December 29, 1956. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN SULHV.\N, '48, a daugh­ter, Laura Marie, February 20. -Mr. and -Mrs. PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49, a son, Gilbert Frederick, January 28. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT R. UHL, '49, a daugh­ter, Mary Irene, February 27. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD CLEARY. '30, a daughter. Colleen Elizabeth, February 23. Mr and Mrs. HARRY MONAHAN, '50, a dau^ter, Maura Kathleen, Febrtiary 3. Dr. and Mrs. JAMES WACK, '50, a daughter, March 6. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. ^VISSEL, '30, a daughter, Mary Ann, February 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOM^VS aiRTER, '31, a son, Christopher, October 16, 1956. Mr. and Mis. JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY', '31, a daughter, Susan, January 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. J,\NOWSKI, '31, a son, Martin John, February 2. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. DOUGHERTY, '52, a son, Patrick Joseph, February 28. Mr. and Mrs. J. GAR^'EY JONES, '52, a son, Kerin Paul, October 29, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD D. DEBOER, '33, a son, Midiael Patrick, June 30, 1936. Mr. and -Mrs. ALFRED C. DECR^VNE, JR., '33, a daughter, Lisa Ann, January 23. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. DILENSCHNEIDER, '33, a son, John Sorin, January 26. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. LAKE, '53, a daughter, Maureen Ann, February' 20. Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR T. PULTE, '53, a son, Micliael Arthur, January 10. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. \\'HEL,SN, '53, a daughter, Julie Marie, September 8, 1956. .Mr. and .Mrs. KENNETH F. -MURPHi; '34, a daughter, Lynn Marie, March 23. 
Lt. and Mrs. BENEDICF E. GRYLE^S^CZ, JR., '33, a daughter, Deborah Susan, December 27, 1956. 
.Mr. and .Mrs. BERTRtUI L. METZGER, JR., '35, a son, Bertram III, Jantiary 21. Mr. and Mrs. JEROME J. BRjUNERD, '55, a son, Jerome James III, March 5. 
Sympathy 

DR. LEO D. O'DONNELL, '17, on the death oC his lather, March 3. LEO J. VOGEL, '17, on the death of his father, January 17. VINCENT D. ENGELS, '23, on the death of his \vifc, February 18. THEODORE ABEL, '30, on the death of his mother. JOSEPH A. MOR^VN, '30, on the death of his brother, March 6. 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR., '33, and EDWARD J. HO^I", '37, on the death of their father, Febru­ary 15. 
J.VMES E. UPRICILVRD, '33, on the death of his father. SISTER MARY AGNESE, S.N.D., '35, on the death of l-cr mother, February*, 1957. 
REV. ILVYMOND F. COUR, C.S.C., '37, WILLLVM J. COUR, '38, and EDWARD E. COUR, '51, on the death of their father, January 24. 
JOHN R. MALO.NE, '42, and JjVMES J. ^U­LONE, '44, on the death of their father. HUGH V. L.\CEY, JR., '45, on the death of his father, February, 1957. DAVID F. KORTY, '47, on the death of his mother, January, 1937. GVRLOS LEVELING, '30, on the death of his mother, Febniarv, 1957. JEROME P. HENDEL, '47, on the death of his mother, Februaiy 22. 
Deaths 

JOHN L. MURPHY, *94, died February 17. Sur­vivors include his u-jdow ivho resides at 821 Gushing St., South Bend, Ind. 
CHARLES V. (VIC) HILDING, '02, prominent Grand Rapids, Mich., attorney, died January 20 after a long illness. Mr. Hilding was a member of the Grand Kapids Bar /\ssociattoQ, State Bar of Michigan and the American Bar Association. Survivors include four sisters and three brothers. 
JOHN J. GORMAN, '05. Illinois State Senator, died March 23 in St. Anne's Hospital, Chicago. Mr. Gorman was a state representative for 13 years and was elected to the senate in 1950. At the time of his death he u*as serving as chairman of the insurance committee of the Illinois Senate. Sur\'iv'­ing arc his widow, Margaret; a son, John, Jr.; a daughter, Mrs. Aibcn M. Smith, three grandchil­dren and a brother. 
^VILLI/VM E. CARRICO, UI, prominent Centre-ville, Mich., citizen, died January 27 after a three months illness. Mr. Carrico, a veteran of World War I, was a business executive of the Denton Mills; Centreville village clerk; president of St. Vincent DePaul Socieiv; the Catholic Men's Qub; the Holy Name Socier/j member and past president of the Centreville Lions Club; Sons of American Revolution; American Legion; and past village presi­dent. Survivors include his widow, one son, one daughter, ftvv grandchildren and one brother. 
JACOB S. COXEY, JR., died recently according to information receli'ed by the Alumni OfHce. He was a student at Notre Dame in 1910-11 and for­merly lived in ^{a5silon, O. 
JOHN C. TULLY, '11. a member of the Board of Lay Trustees and former Chicago area manu­facturer and banker, died March 6 in Salinas, Calif. Mr. TuUy founded the Thomas More Asso­ciation in 1939, a non-proBt organization promot­ing the reading of Catholic books. Before his retirement in 1951, he served as president of the First National Bank of LaGrange (HI.), and headed the former Bremer-Tully Manufacturing Company, makers of radio equipment. Mr. TuUy also ser%'ed for a time as the treasurer and a director of the Radio Manufacturers ^Vssociation. Sur\iving are his widow, Anna, and three daugh­ters. 
J.VMES WASSON, '13, of San Leandro, CalU., died December 9, 1956. He is survived by his wife, a son, a daughter, two brothers and five grandchildren. 
JAMES A. .\L\THEWS. '15, of Milwaukee, Wis., died January 17 according to information recently received in the ^Viumni Office. 
RUSSEL H. DOWNEY, '16, South Bend, Ind., died unexpectedly on April 5 in his Vero Beach, Fla., winter home where he and Mrs. Downey had gone in December, ilr. Downey ser\-ed as presi­dent of the following fiims: ^farquette Lumber Company, Inc., South Bend; Cassopolis (Mich.) Liunber Co.; and Do%vagiac (Mich.) Sau-mill Inc. He ^^•as active in ciWc affairs and was on the South Bend Board of Education for II years—three of these he ser\*cd as president. Mr. Do\s'ney, after reccinng a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame, was a member of the U. S. Air Force during ^VorId War I. He also belonged to the First Afethodist Church in South Bend, the University Club of Chi-o^o and tlie Indiana Club. His sur\'i\'ors include the widmv and three sons. 
ILVROLD J. CLEARY, '17, died November 6, 1955. Survivors Include a son, Richard, who resides in Ontonagon, Michigan. 
DR. PATRICK C. DORAN, '23. 131 South Balch St., Akron, Ohio, died March 21. He is sur\"ived by his widow Flo; two sons, Pat, Jr., now at Notre Dame; and John at home; and three daughters, Mary Ellen, Rosemary and Abigail. 
BROTHER AGATHO, O.F.M., '25, died recently according to-word received in the Alumni Office. At the tim= of his death he was stationed at Quincy College, Quincy, III. 
J. FRED SALLOWS, '25, 3719 So. Carroll St., South BenJ, Ind., died March 10. Survivors in­clude his ^ridow. 
GEORGE B. SHEEHE, '25, 6545 Colby Ave., Des Mcines, lo^v-a, died Afarch 25 after suffering a stroke. Afr. Sheehe was public relations director for the Iowa Chain Store Coundl for the last 11 years and was a member of the rural youth committee of the Greater Des ^^oines Chamber of Commerce, the marketing committee of the coimty extension council and on the board of directors of the Polk County Fair. During World War 11 he \\-as Iowa State Director for the War Food Administration. Sur\-ivors Include his wife, Mar­garet: a son; three daughters; a sbtcr; and ten grandchildren. 
VICTOR W. LaBEDZ, '26, 1140 No. LaSalle, Chicago, 111., died January 22. Mr. LaBedz had an orchestra while at Notre Dame and for many years a[te^^vards ia South Bend. At the time of his_ death he \ras employed as a pianist in the Chicago area. Survivors include his wife, Gladys, and a son, Victor, Jr. 
JOHN M. BREEN, '27, 2630 HilUide Lane. Evanston, HI., died February 14 follou-ing % brie/ illness. Mr. Brecn, a noted figure in the insurance education field, was a vice-president of Kemper Insurance Companies and director of the Kemper Mutual Jnsurance Institute. In 1951 Loyoia University of Chicago asked him to teach insurants in its cvemns classes and he remained on its staff until his death. Mr. Brecn, after attending Notre Dame, received his law degree from the John Marshall Law Sdiool. He was a member of the American Bar Association, the Chicago Bar Association, the International Asso­ciation of Insurance Ci-unsels, the American Asso­cmiation of University Teachers of Insurance, the American Society of Training Directors and the Educational Committee of the American Kfutual 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 37 
AUianci:. He is sur\-ivcd by his wife, two sons 
and two daughters. 
GERv\LD E. ROACH, '29, Grand Rapids, Mich., 

died September 7, 1956. He is sm^ivcd by his 
\vido»% tn'o sons and one daughter. 
THO.M/VS P. RY.\K, '29, brancli manager in 

Chicago for the SyK-ania Sales Corporation, died 
Januaiy 23. Mr, Ryan formerly had worked as 
sales mana^rr of the .\dmiral Corporation's Chicago 
branch. Sur\-iving arc his widows' and two cliiJdrcti. 
DR. JAMES E. aVMPAU, '30, 9126 ChiUon, Brigliton, Midi., died February 22. Dr. Canipau, a Detroit optometrist for 25 years, was a member of the Notre Dane Club and the Lakelands Golf and Country Club. He Is survived by his widow, his mother and a sister. 
HERMAN S. SHEEDY, »39, 16590 Griggs, Detroit, Mich., died Februar>* 19 of injuries suf­fered ia zji automobile ?.ccident. Sur\'ivors in­clude his widow, five cliildren, his mother and a brother, REV. CHARLES SHEEDY, C.S.C., '33, dean of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters. 
JOHN J. WAHL, JR., '43, 221 Logan St., Rockfonf, IIL, died February 10 after a brief illness. Mr. Walil was associated with his failicr in the Wahl Distributing Company. A veteran of AVorld War II, he was a member of the Knights of Columbus, Elks Club, University Club, Walter Craip- .American hcs'ton Vast and ^vas a past preside!:! of the Notre Dame Club of Rockford. Survivors include his widow, one son, and his parents. 
1904 
HON. ERNEST E. L. HAMMER has been named president of the LavcIIc Scliool for the Blind in Ne^v York City. The honorary president of the organization is Cardinal Spellman. 
1907 
soyeAR 
Reunion 
-Juae 7-8-0 i 
1 CLOSS A 
Fred L. Steers 

1911 
105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illinois 

1912 
III 
45 yem 
Reunion 

June  
7-6-9  C  
• \  CLAS S•  ll ­ 
1913  P^ul R.  Byrne  
Bo-v  46  
Notre Danie,  Indiana  
1914  ^^^  O'Neill  
• ' ' ^ 1350 No. Black Oak Dr ive  
South Bend  17, Indiana  

Your bccetary appreciated your acknowledgments of his Christmas card, reproducing the priest-poet's handwriting of that beautiful "A Christmas Wish," WTitten by our old teaclicr and friend, FATHER PAT C-VRROLL, but he is more discouraged by than apologetic for the postscripts: "Why don't \vc have more news In the .-VLUMNUS about the class of '14?" 
The answer is simple, and I'm sure other secre­taries will agree with me. We're not mind readers. All we can do Is to print the ne^vs you send us. Had each of your postscripts mentioned a single 
Father Michael J. O'Connor, Af.Af., in front of (he old Mission Church of Tien Chung, Formosa, with some small friends. Father O'Connor, a native of the Bron.\-, New York, was ordained af Marjknoll in 1944, and obtained a Master's degree in English at Notre Dame in 1946. After teaching in Maryknoll seminaries in Pennsylvania and New Jersey and spend­ing a year on the staff of "Maryknoll: The Field Afar" magazine, he was assigned to the Orient in 1950. Since 1953 he has been pastor of the Tien Chung Mission in Central For­mosa. The mission has increased from 900 Catholics to 3,000 in the past four years. 
item of ntws of your doings, or of one of our 
1915 
classmates, this cotuuin would have at least six news items! 
Quite a few of us attended the 1956 Alumni re­union. And everyone reported some bit of news that was duly printed later. Many of you had 
1916 
questions: *'Whatever happened to GEORGE M/VS­SEV, or TIM DOWNEY, or BE.N* GUERRA. Most of you have secretaries. Next time you give her dictation, before you say *'that's all." add this: 1917 "Take a short not to RON O'NEILL and tell him !" Or drop a postcard. If you., and other old-timers will do this for me or your own class secretary, you'll find plenty of news about the men who were with us at Notre Dame. 
I have had one Important communication, relaved bv WALT CLE.MEXTS, from CHv\RLIE VAUGHAN of LaFaycttc suggesting that our class tr\- to arrar.gc for a Mass to be said at Notre Dame each year on the anniversary of our graduation (June 15) for tlie souls of our deceased classmates, and, soon or late, for your soul and mine. 
I think it's a splendid idea. I'm particularly intrigued by Charlie's supgestlon that this Mass be "in perpetuity"-—o.-. zs Io^g as there is a Notre Dame. For a trifling; 5uin--S300 to $500—a trust fund could be created (without cost) which would provide an annual "hoiiorarlum" of §5 or §10 for 
 J^i™^ £• Sanford 
1429 W. Farragut Avenue 
Chicago 40, Illinois 
 G'^over F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, \\'isconsin 
 Edward J. McOsker 2205 Brianvood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
Aoyean 
detinion. 
June
7-6-9 
iVRpliiiBi 

OSCAR JOHN DORWIX lias been elected should not make It necessary* for any of you to such a nixss. .And to contribute to such a fund 
director of the Texas Company, He lias been a divert one penny from any more substantial dona­
vice-president since 1951 and a general counsel tion you arc planning to make for the many needs 
ijf the company since ]*M4. of the University. Will each of you drop mc a line giving mc your opinlim on this matter, and any sug­
1918 George E. Harbcrt gestions you may have. We could get this plan in 500 Rock Island Bank BIdg. operation by June 15 of this year! Rock Island, Illinois 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 

191 9  Theodore C. Rademaker Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana  
1 92 0  J^"i>cs H. Ryan 107 Magcc Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y.  
1921*  ^^" ^*'-^"^y  1101 N.B.C. BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio  

From KILL SHERRY: 

It was thoughtful of you to rciiicmbtr mc in your letter of November 15, telling of DAVE HAYS' dcatli. I A\-as in New York that week and read about it in the paper. 
 am enclosing Frank Graham's article that was in the New York Journal American. It was cer­tainly a well written article. Dave ^^•as really a most unusual lad. I alwa>-s enjoyed his reaction to things, 
.Again I w:ant to tell you Iiow much I regret not being able to make the June Re-Union. 
My son, Bill, is a sophomore. He is in 300 Howard Hall. We have one more boy but ht-i> only uine years old. 
1 922 Gerald A. /\shc 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. V. 
Reunion 
June i 

\\"c extend our loving sympathy to mir feUow classmate .MORGAN SHEEDY of Titlsburgh on iht­deatli of his youngest brother, H. SCOIT SHEEDY, *39, in Detroit, Ftbniarv- II. Also, we hope Cod 
will grant solace to all members of the Shcedy 

family. 
Our good friend and classmate, GEORGE KER­

VER of Cleveland writes to tell us of the illness 
of classmate DR. PAT DORAN who is presently 
a patient in the Akron, Oliio, City Hospital. 
George Kcr\'er asks us all to remember Doctor 
Pat in our prayers. Latter is anxiously hoping that 
it would be possible for him to attend our 35th 
Reunion in June, but many prayers arc needed to 
have that wish fulfdled. Brother Kcrvcr reports 
a recent visit with his oldest son. King, in Houston, 
Texas, also, says to count on him for our Reunion. 
Already, great things arc taking place in the Sdutii Bend area to assure success for our gala SJth Reunion In June. J. FR.ANK "RANGY" MILES has agreed to accept the position of Local Chairman to arrange for 1922 doings at reunion time. He will, of course, be ably guided and assisted bv our class president .VAROX HVGVEy-ARD, Midwest vice-president HAROLD WEBER, treasurer FRED DRESSEL and other dvnamic h>cals such as GENE SMOGER, P.\T .\L\N10N, BEN­NIE Mca\FFERY, PAUL PADEN, PAUL SCHWERTLEY and WALTER SHILTS. From the oflictrs of the Alumni AsMicIation^IM .VR-M­STRONG and JOHN CVCKLEY, JR.—our good friend Rangy will receive wimderful co-operation and expert advice based on years of experience. In iact, even now while the snow is still upon the ground, they have tentatively booked the 1922 class dinner In the Morris Inn Golfers Lounge for Friday evening, June 7. Other details will coine to liirhi as the time for our rcniiion ctiines closer. 
JOHN P.\UL CULLEN, who in the . past has been a bentfactor of the N'<»tre Dame Library tlirougli the medium of first editions and other books of merit, has some iiH>re gifts in mind. It ciuld be that these additions will he presented around reunion tinu*. 
DAN YOUNG and wife Lorctta left the Minne­sota Ir<m Range December 21 for a trip by plane to New York where they boarded a Grace Line steamship which took theiu to iJie north coast of Venezuela. They report that the city of Caracas is reallv fantastic. 

LAWRENCE T. "BUCK*' SHAW, head football coach at the .\Ir Force .Academy, Colorado Springs. Colo., has been named a vice-president of the Royal Container Company which maintains general offices in San Francisco. 
DR. D.\.\1EL L. SEXTON, associate professor ot clinical iiiediciije at St. Louis Ujiivrrsily. was 
recently honored as a member ol the /acuity for 
25 years. 
We hope every '22 man will make a very special 

effort to attend our 35th Reunion starting June 7. 
Our past reunions have been successful because of 
large attendance and by hard work of the South 
Bend committees. Nothing pleases the South Bend­
ers more than a large influx of thctr classmates at 
reunion ume. RANGY MILES, AARON HUGUEN­
jVRD, HAROLD WEBER and the others are not 
going to like it if you do not show tfiis coming 
June, also, N.D.' will not be happy about It. Men 
of '22, wc are calling you. 
1 923 Louis V. Bruggncr ^ ^ 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 
Death struck at the ranks of '23 men twice 

within two weeks durjng March, first taking 
FATHER JOSEPH A. MUCKENTHALER, OS.C, 
a native of South Bend, and for many years in­
structor of German at the University. Father Joe 
\^'a5 found dead on the bed of his room following 
his Holy Mass and breakfast on the morning of 
March 8. He had been a member of Holy Cross 
since I9I4, after his graduation from grade school. 
On March 21, DR. PATRICK C. DOR^VN, an orthopedic surgeon of Akron, Ohio, died following an illness of about three months with abdominal cancer. Classmates and friends who saw him at the 25th and 30tli class reunions remember that he still wore the same wide, infectious grin which Is visible in all of his pictures extant in the Domes of 1923 and thereabouts. "Chic" as we knew him was a Varsity track man in his student days. 
Another death of conc-m to men of 1923 is that of Mrs. VINCENT D. ENGELS of Washington. 
D. C., OP Fcbruar>' 18, who was fatally injured In a fall down the stairs of her heme. It is believed that a bad knee with which she had sufFcrcd caused her to fall the full length of the stairs. She was rushed to a hospital, but emergency surgery failed to save her from death from a brain hemorrhage. Classmi.te3 wishing to write to Vincc may reach him at 3108 Winn.nt Road, Che\y Chase, Maryland. 
Welcome visitors to the haunts of your secretary and to the campus In recent montlis were CORNIE PFEIFFER, RED SHE^\, DICK N^VSH, HASK LMJERMAS and COLONEL ELMER COLLINS, to which I might add welcome notes and longer communicaL'ons from FRED STEELE, JOHN M. .MO.NTAGUE, WILLIAM L. VOSS, Pre-::c JACK 
KANSAS CITY—Guests of the c!ub*s Christmas Dinner Dance included (left to right): Bernard O'Connor, '53; Tcrrence Hartigaiij Cam­pus Club Secretary and Scholarship winner, 1955; Saiu Nigro, Canipus Club Vice President and Student Chairman of Christmas Dance, and his date; Dave Thompson, Campus Club President; Father James Schwartz, new Notre Dame Club Chaplain; Mrs. Bernard Finucane; Bernard Finucanc, Chairman of the Christmas Dance; Russell Farrell, Club President; Father Vincent Kearney, Past Notre Dame Club Chaplain, who received Award of Appreciation from the Notre Dame Club at Christmas Dance; Ed Aylward, Club Vice President, and his date; Mrs. Sam DiGio\-anni, Ladies* Au.xiliar>' President; Sam DiGiovanni; Mrs. E. Robert Nigro; Dr. E. Robert Nigro, Club Secre­
tar\'; Mrs. Jack Hayes; Jack Hayes, Club Treasurer. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1937 39 
LACROSSE—(Photo on left) Father Tom Ninncinan addresses club at Communion Breakfast. Others, from left to right, facing camera, are Jerr>' Heberlein, Joe Becker, and Henry Funk. (Photo on right) Lined up for ticket distribution at the Club's Christmas formal arc (left to right) Dr. John Simones, Henry Funk, Steve Pavela, John Michuta, Don Sieger, Joe Becker and Jerry Heberlein. 
NORTON, HARRY FLAXXERY and FATHER FRED J. MANN, C.SS.R. 
This reporter notes with some satisfaction that the Class of 1923, ia the 1956 Report of the Foun­dation Office relative to Class contributions, ranks first in the amount of monc\' contributed, among the Classes graduating from 1920 to 1926. These seven classes are those from %vhich men of 1923 made acquaintances with cither upper classmen when we tverc freshmen (or belter) with undcr­classmcii when we were seniors. Wc believe that this group of seven classes most fairly presents Classes compar^Ic in numbers, economic state of life, etc. That we should outdo our friends from *20 to '26 is a source of great satisfaction. 
DONALD W. SMITH has recently become a member of the firm Sattcrlce, Warfield and Stephens, New York City. 
GEORGE UHLMEYER, who was featured as a "Spolli^t Alumnus" in the last magazine, is the ne\%' vice-president of Cockshutt Farm Equipment. Inc., Belleme, Ohio. George was also elected a director of the company. 
109 4 James R. Mcchan I #A-f 329 gjj Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
FATHER J. ^f. RICK, C.S.C., Is now assigned to Bo>"5 Ranch in Bedford, Texas. He is also working as an assistant director of the Holy Cross Seminarj- Campaign Fund Drive. He was for many years assigned to the Foreign Missions In India. 
Tiie class extends SMnpathv to tlic families of: GERALD HASSMER of Ltiwrenceburg,' Indiana, who died Januarv* 2 at the Good Samaritan Hos­pital, Cincinnati, Ohio, a victim of pneumonia and complications (this information relayed bv JACK NORTON of the Class of '23) and DR. HARVEY F- BROWTC, B.S., '24 who died Januarv- 13, in Detroit. Harvey was a stellar guard and Captain of the football team under Rockne. 
1925 J°^" ^- Hurley 
I y^ ^ 2085 Brookdale Road 
Toledo 6, Ohio 

(Ed. Note: To all the class except J. Hurley— Y'our sccrctar>' and ALUMXUS correspondent was a 'distinguished speaker' at the St. Mary's College banquet on Parents Weekend in late March. His daughter. Fat, was general chairman of tlie alTair and John spoke in behalf of all parents attending the event.—JC) 
That "deadline's" here again tu t I DO HAVE NEWS—all I have to do is find the time to get it off to Editor JOHN CACKLEY, so here goes. 
JOHN A. NOPPENBERGER writes he lives at 2117 W, Heading A\x., Peoria, Illinois, and he's a teai^er and real estate operator. His wife's name is Vclma and has a daughter Nancy, Ellen. *'Aftcr twenty-live years of coaching they finally caught up with me, so I am 'building cliaracter* teaching social studies in the Junior High School here and attempting real estate swindles, I've been success­ful and happy. I'm enjoying good health but am aggravated at the fact that for the first time since leanng N.D. I have gotten beyond my playing weight of 190 pounds. I am up to 208 and it doesn't seem to want to come ofT. Perhaps I could 'write it off' to Ballantine's Ale. Regards and best wishes to yourself and the rest of a great class. 'Noppy.' 
Thanks, Noppv, it was great hearing from you. 

ALBERT E. D.\SCHBACH, 2603 Shady Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.—AVs an insurance broker. He lias a wife and stepson Capt. R. O. Littcll, West Point *"W. He said he would Hke to hear from HANK ;\'URZER and DUT GRIFFIN. He writes, "Since this note is being written the day after the Na\'y game I, like so many others, am asking 'what has happened?' (^\I, see Armstrong's fine article in the last Fcbruar>'-Marcli issue, 1957). .•\m still a member of the insurance firm of Ed­wards, George & Co., Inc.," in Pittsburgh. Can n-port family and m\-sclf well, comfortable and happy. God is good." 
WARD McCVRRON, 1501 S.E. 14th St., Ft Lauderdale, Fla.—Florence (wife) married 10-2-54 in Ft. Lauderdale, Ward has retired to his fishing, golfing and riding around in his Tlmnderbird. Ward writes *'his first wife died of a heart condi­tion in 1946 about th? same time as CHARLIE ST/\NHOPE, My two daughters were married in 1W7 ai.d 1948. In the summer of '46 we traveled the entire summer, Canada, Alaska and throughout the US.\, 
*'Belty, the oldest daughter, has three boys. Patsy has two bo>-s and one girl. I came to Florida in 1951, made a couple of nickels in land deals, married Mrs. George Fitzpatrick from Pelhain Manor, N. Y., here 10-2-54. On our honeymoon wc spent a few da\-s at N.D. Saw JIM ARM­STRONG, JULIUS DANCH and in '55 met the gang at the class reunion. Florence's son George is in the Navy and L-. now in the Pacific area. 
*'If you want to catcli a sailfish, come on down. I know just the spot. You bring the luck. Best regards—^Ward," 
Ward, I'll be down that way in a few weeks and I hope wc can have a '25 reunion. 
PAUL E. S.\GSTETTER—'^This questionnaire is a good idea, John. You will probably Icam what a lot of the '25 classmen are doing, I'm still tr>-ing to sell tires or recapping for vehicles in tlic Fort \Vayne area. It's hard to realize more than a year has passed since our last reunion and I hope to make the one in '60, If wc get Sorin again let's hope there arc new* mattresses." 
Since the above letter u-as rccived I saw Paul in Fort ^Vaync and if any of you *25ers need tires —good General Tires that is—Paul will lake good care of you as he did zac Wc had a ver^' pleas­ant visit, 
HAROLD C. ^VATSON (273 N, Hackett Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.) is the same old "senator." As he sa\-s, he "insures cver\'thing but the here­after. Besides his wife, Harold has three sons; 1) Thomas, age 21; 2) Denis, age 18; 3) James, age 15. Mine is a ver>- busy life vrith my family— my business, I also teacli evening classes of insur­ance at the University of Wisconsin (Milwaukee) and lots of speaking to convention groups, associa­tions and to organizations and clubs such as Ki­wanis, Rotar>-, et c Living is not a boredom to me —^Thank God. Kind personal regards, John, and may all be well ^v•ith you. P.S.—AVc did have an impressive N.D, affair in Milwaukee several weeks ago. It was the unveiling of a large bronze plaque of GUS DORiMS in the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame. I served as the M.C. for the event. Mrs. Dorais and family along with many sports celebri­ties were here for the event." 
EDMUND C. ASHE, 6214 W. Manchester Blvd., Los Angeles 45, California—Ed's a sales engineer and manufacturer's representative of airborne equip­ment. He has a married daughter, Kathryn Arm­strong, and a son Ed, Jr., age 23, "We have three grandchildren and expect a fourth momentarily. Son Ed, Jr., is single. My business is a partnership with my son-in-lavv under the name Ashc-jVrmstrong Company (aircraft and missile). My son joined the firm Oct. 15, 1956. Sorr\' I haven't crossed your path in the East. I have been making a couple of trips a year to Dayton, however, the clos­est I have come to Toledo is to fly over the town between Davton and Detroit." 
"J. HAYES FULLER is still living in Del Mar, Calif,, P.O. Box 233, and is in the insurance busi­ness in San Diego. 
"Someone told me they ran across *RED' HER­MANN in L.A. That was several years ago and \vhcther he is still here and what he is doing is more than I know. 
"BION VOGEL is a successful attorney and doesn't seem to age. He recently built a new home in San Marino with a swimming pool yet! 
"BILL *DOC' MOLONY is a \vcll established grandpa now. He is one of our outstanding ortho­pedic pli>"sicions—Ed." 
Tlianks, Ed, for all the info. Let me know the next time you are in Dayton because I get there often. In fact, I'm writing this copy in Dayton. I cover all Ohio and Pittsburgh as a manufacturer's representative of fine furniture. 
DR. FR.\NCIS L, KENNEDY, physiaan and surgeon, car, nose and throat specialty—Nancy Mar>-, wife; Larry, 21; Mike, 19; and Pat, 16. Frank vould like to hear from FR^VNK "TINY" MILLBAUER and FERDIE KRE.MP. 
Frank writes, *'I am amused when patients who sec my diploma from Notre Dame ask if they had football there around 1925. My answ*er, *Havc you ever heard of the Four Horsemen?' My diploma reads Bachelor of Science in Agriculture. Tlits seems a bit out of place in an onilar>'n5ologist's office but I surely get a big kick out of it. John, good luck and God bless you. Frank." 
I saw Frank at a Father and Daughter affair at Afar>'\ille College in St. Louis where my daugh­ter Afoira w*as a senior. Frank doesn't have any daughters but he had one that night—one of the *'St. Louis Proxy Father*." He looked great and 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
V'as having a fine time dancing with the sweet young coUcgiam—and the sanic went for yours truly. 
G. FRANKLIX McSORLEY—Dorothea (wife), Mrs. Thomas Cox, Jr. (daughter) Mercedes Dore­thea (daughter], G. Franklin McSorley, Jr. (son). Frank is still in Pittshurgh—in fact, one of the leading citizens although you wouldn't know it from the "info" he DIDN'T gix-c me on his questionnaire. lie's Chairman of the Pcnns^'lvania Turnpike Commission and the builder of many fine apartment buildings In Pittsburgh. In fact, HARRY STUHLDREHER is one of his tenants. I saw Frank and Harry at the Pitt game last fall. They both look great. 
HARRY A. STUHLDREHER, 471G Ellsworth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.—Executive, United States Steel; family, Harry, Jr., age 23, Micliigan, '58; Micliael, age 24, Yale, '53; John, age 21, Notre Dame, *56; Peter, age 19, Carnegie Institute of Teclinologj', '59. Question—^Thc last fellows he saw? Ansxvei^ELMER LAYDEX, DON MILLER and JIM CROWLEY. You have been able to keep up pretty well on my actiwties because of my travels. It is interesting to have the chance to run into so many of th^ gang over the country-. I will look fonrard to the reunion at the Na\-y game in '57." 
True, I've seen more of Harr>* than any of the gang. He has been in Toledo many times and I've seen him at games at N.D. and Pittsburgh. He's a great pluggcr' for the Class of 1925. 
DR. WILLIAM R. MOLONY, JR.—Sharon (23), Terry (19) a sophomore at N.D., and Patricia (17). Tlic last felloe's he saw were ED ^\SHE (oil tv­coon), DR. JIM WARGIN (delivering babies'). Writes. "Saw a bunch of fellows at the last N.D. gathering last month (a beer bust). Nobody reached the point of busting but there was a lot of perspiration. Regards to all the 25ers." 
WALTER J. C\'R, Director Styled Contract Hardware Sales for Yale and Towne Manufacturing Company. Walt writes, "Sorr>' to have missed the party. I saw the Indiana game. Glad Terry B. is able to sec these things philosophically! Would be very nice to lick Oklahoma but that's asking for a lot. Belter luck next year! Walt." 
Thanks Walt. Sorry wc missed connections in Toledo some months ago—tr>- again! 
GEORGE E. LUDWIG, di%TsIon manager of tlie Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Muskegon, Mich., has been recently elected president of the Rotar>' Club. 
NORBERT F. SKELLEY, 109 No. Santa Fe, Salina, Kansas, pharmacist, manager-partner Low's Drugs. Norb writes, "The Salina N.D. Club of which •there arc 14 members ran a special train to the Oklahoma game \nth bar car and piano and a big jug for donations to our Scliolarship Fund. 
This will be our fourth special trip. Wc have had five years of drouth in this area of Kansas, Okla­homa, Texas, Nebraska and Colorado. It is as dry as a bone now and farmers are even afraid to plant wheat. I live \rith my mother who was bom in Salina 80 years ago. AVhen she was bom the Indians surrounded the house to see the white baby. I enjoyed the cocktail party last year. A great idea. TIic railroad agent with me from Topeka and Santa Fc could not believe it possible and was very much impressed. Enclosed check for Masses. Best regards to you." 
Tlianks, Norb, and bring your friend around for the Na\y reunion this fall. November 2nd the date, Morris Inn the place. Bv the way, if you write ARCHBISHOP JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C., for that autographed picture—I'm sure it will be forthcoming. 
MYRON E. HOOD, 2831 Rosebud Drive, Cin­cinnati 38, Ohio. (Alberta's age will be kept a secret Myron). And if there is any finer family than this—let him step forth. Daughters Doretta, 19; Juanita, 18; Barbara, 13; Jeanctle, 12; Pauline, 9; and Lclitia, 4. Sons Donald, 16; Robin, 11; Albert, 8; Darid, 7; Gregory, 2, and Steven, 1. 
M%T0n gave his occupation as "Salesman and you name it.'' I sure will—you're "Tlie Father of the Class of 1925." We would like a picture of vour grand family for the ALUMNUS. You are one up on GENE O'REILLY but as MOOSE KRx\USE once told me (O'Reilly's of the Class of 1935) and as Moose sa^-s of himself, "I'm still on the ofTensivc." 
Myron uTitcs, "I expect to visit Toledo (on my way to Detroit) long enough to see BEN RESTING and JOHN HURLEY some time this spring. Will spill the *aU' then. Have had my nose too close to the grindstone to g-C any \-isiting done the past few years. Nope, didn't shorten my nose a bit! Hope to have the pressure of work start to ease up next year. Thanl:s for the inWtaiion to the cocktail party. You have been doing a fine job for your class." 
Tlianks, Myron—you have been doing a fine job for your countr>' and you and Alberta are to be congratulated on your fine family. Hope you do call when passing through Toledo—I'll try to con­tact you in Cinci as I get there quite often. 

BIOX B. VOGEL, 6719 North \Tsta, San Gabriel, California, attorney-at-Iaw. "Wife Eleanor (age­less), daughter Mrs. James W. Elliot stationed at Mather Field, Calif. Two grandchildren, a boy age 2 and a girl three weeks old. Our other daughter is Sister ^fary Bcmadinc, a nun in Phila­delphia with the order of ^[other of the Holy Child. 
**We fortunately have no%v and have had for many years a very active Notre Dame Club in Los Angeles. More recently, those of us who were undergraduates at Notre Dame who took their law elsmvhcre, as I did at Loyola University Law School in Los Angeles, have recently formed an organization of those practicing in the L.A. area." 
Bion, it was great hearing from you. Wc must compare notes on our daughters who are in the religious life. My daughter Moira entered the Mar^-knolb last September. 
ANSELM D. MILLER, president, Virginia Metal ^(anufacturing Co., Inc., at Roanoke, Va. 
"Family Ansclm D., Jr., 26 (father of two daughters), John Marshall 22, Marshall Quinn 20, iXnn LiWngston 18 at Mary Baldwin College. John Marshall's at Hampden Sydney, Marshall Quinn is at Viand School. At present I am president of Virginia Metal Manufacturing Company, Inc., all of Roanoke, I am in good health but have given up many of my ciWc activities since taking on more business responsibilities which keep me pretty close to home and allows me little chance for travel. Remember me to the men of '25 whom I knew. Sure would like to get together with them again soon." 
BRO. HYACINTH. C.S.C.. St. Joseph Juniorate, Valatic, X. Y. Brother is Vocational promoter for the Brothers of Holy Cross in the East. 
Brother writes, '*After being stationed in many of our Community schools in the Midwest and far West, I am here now for five years recruiting can­didates for the Congregation. I have done nothing spectacular but I am still trying to do things. Since the Brothers of Holy Cross are expanding so rapidly in the East, our problem of staffing our establishments is becoming greater—so my problem is becoming greater in proportion." 
Thanks, Brother—you are very modest—among the many things that yau must have done—the one I know about—was the grand job you did opening up Gilmour Academy at Gates Mills, Ohio, when you were the Principal at that School. It was nice of you to take the time to write to vour classmates. 
FIRMIX D. FUSZ, investment broker, Catherine (wife), Cathy, 14, Ann, 12, Ellen, ID. Firm would like to hear from GEORGE ROHRBACH. LEX D0R5CHEL and anybody in the class. "I feel bad about missing the reunion in 1955 and again about missing the 10-20-56 meeting—I was on the West Coast but will make a point of being at the first meeting I can." 
Put THE NAVY GAME, NOV. 2, 1957, in red letters on your desk pad—order tickets early—we xvould all like to see you. Firm. 
a JOSEPH FOLEY, ^LD., ^Vaukegan, 111., wife Jane, Helen 15, Joe, Jr. 13, Jancy 11, Jim 10, Kathy 9, Tom 6, and Michael 2. 
''Since service in the Medical Corps when I wax in Europe and the Philippines, it seems that I go just from the house to the bam with the exception of medical meetings in \-arious parts of the country. Usually there doesn't seem to be time enough to 
TERRE HAUTE—Members of the Notre Danie Club of Terre Haute and their guests attended the annual dance in the Pine Room of the Deming Hotel. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 41 
Gyorgy Koranyi (right), the first Hungarian refugee student to enroll at the University of .Notre Dame, confers \nth Father Richard Murphy, C.S.C., director of admissions. Koranyi, who %\'ill major in mechanical engineering, is the recipient of one of four scholarships made a>'ailable by the University to former Hungarian college students. The National Catholic Welfare Conference and the Institute of International Education arranged for Koranyi's matriculation at Notre Dame, Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C, is 
rice-president 

stop to sec anyone anymore. My uifc Jane Is a graduate of Roscmont—^Joc Folc\-." Thanks, Joe tr>' to be with the gang this fall. Bring that grand family with you. 
GEORGE KOCH, 1903 Marine St., South Bend. Dorothy (u*ife), Patricia Koch King, Jerry, Bob, Connie Jo. "Saw ELMER L^WDEN at tlie wedding of BILL SHEEHAN*s daughter JiU. Sec CERNEY cvcr>' wccL, \Vc live t%vo houses av*-ay. Would like to hear from BERNIE LI\^RGOOD, ED POL­HAUS and MORRIE BOI-AND. My son Bob is entered in X.D. for September, '57. My daughter Pat married TOM KING, N.D. '52. He is football coach at Washington Clay High School (north of fnmpus in Clay Township). He is a Homcll, N. Y., boy. I got my masters degree from X.D. in *48 (that wasn't easy). I do considerable speaking on 
K. of C. circuit in Indiana. Just retired as State Chairman of Catholic Affairs." 
CHARLES ^f. MOUCH, 1503 Columbus Ave., Sandusky, Ohio. Construction-Residential Develop­ment. Family, Charles. Jr., age 28; Mary Ann, age 26; Frank, age 23; Barbara, age 16; and Chris­tine, age 7. 
Charlie would like to hear from AL SOMMERS as to •why he has to go to South America to beat the landlord out of rent. Really must have had him on tlie book. I expect to sec JOE TOOLEN in St. Pete tliis winter. 
"Tliirty years is quite a term so let's just say that everything is very nice in our family. Frank, my son, is in the seminar>- and will be ordained in 1958 (Ma>). Charles, Jr., and Mary Ann arc married and the former has a son and daughter, the latter ^ son (two jars of TNT in small packages).'* 
Charlie, it was great hearing from you. I had a long phone conversation with our mutual pal AVAL­TER JOHN HAECKEk a few uecks ago—in fact, he happened to call on Jan. 30lli, our 25th wedding anniversary. ART SUDER, '26, and I tried my best to get him to come out to the house but he only had a few hours in Toledo and wanted to be with his father. "Butdi" is great and sees HANK BARNHART, '23, quite often. I guess W. J. uses Hank's steam shovels. 
I'm signing ofT tlils issue uith JOE J. SCALISE. Fm getting •writer's cramps—like the good old senior thesis—this is 30 pages long hand written and 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 
 of the Institute. 
if JOHN CACKLEY can make this out he's a better man than I thought—and that's pretty good. (Ed. Note: What a man—this guy. Hurley*, gets sharper ever>' issue—really g-r-e-a-t.—^JC) I usually type (or have this t\-pcd) but I'm *'on the road" this week and the deadline is tomorrow—wouldn't it be awful to have a BLrVNK under 1925 with so mud) news ax-ailable. 
JOSEPH J. Sa\LISE, 2357 Eleventh St., Cuya­hoga Falls, Ohio. Accounting Department of Good­year Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio. Daughter Mrs. Lucille Smith, 23; Robert A. Scalise, 19; Joe's wife died in 1953. 
Joe would like to hear from PAUL DOOLEV of Toledo. Joe sa^-s, "Tlicse cocktail parties should be decided on before wc order tickets so we will know which one to plan on." 
Joe, my boy, you must not read the '25 column —I mentioned tliat Michigan State game many limes last year and it gives me one more cliancc to say BOYS ORDER TICKETS FOR NA\ % sclicdulcd on NO\^MBER 2, 1957—you will be sorr>' if you don't just like Joe. Also keep praying for our classmates and send Hank your monc\' for Masses. 
1 92A  Rudolph  A. Goepfrich  
•'*'*  '  1109 N. Clevebnd Ave.  
South  Bend  28, Ind.  

The deadline for Class news for the ALUMNUS crept up on me and caught me short. Please help mc, fellows, with some dope for the next issue. 
I had a tew cnjo>-able visits with JOHN RYAN, our Class President. He's still bus\- with the George ^f. Coale Company of Chicago, supplying hardwood lumber, mostly to the railroads. GEORGE HARTNETT is sojoumlag in Florida; a call to his olEcc found his son George carr>'ing on the business. George Sr. *rill be in Florida several more weeks. He has been tlicic most ot tlic winter recuperating from a recent illness. I had a short note from VINCE GOULET, our class treasurer. He has heard from JOHN KELLY of Philadelphia, who sent a %%*elcomc clicck to bolster our trcasurj*. 
Wc have learned of the recent death of one of our classmates, VICTOR LaBEDZ. Let's remember him in our prayers. 
Your sec* etar\* would like to know if any of 
1957 

>-ou would be interested in some kind of get-together other than our regular five-year reunions. I note from the last ALUMNUS that the Class of '25 gets together annually for one of the football games. Last year they took in the Michigan State game and this year they arc planning on the Na%y game. Incidentally, I also note from the ALUM­NUS that our ART SUDER crashed the '25 cock­tail party last year. Any of you who arc inter­ested in sucli an affair, please let mc know. An­other possibility might be a summer retreat at the new Notre Dame Retreat House. 
1 927  Steve  Ronav  
•'^  '  1125 Woodla^-n  
South Bend 16, Indiana  

30 yeAR. 
Reunion 
June I 1 1-8-9 d
^wgpi 

JOHN BREXNAN lias recently been eleclid president of American Blower Division in Detroit, Midi., of the American-Standard Company. He was formerly vice-president—engineering and lias been with tlie firm sincj 1928. Jobn is a member of the Xotre Dame Alumni Association Boanl of Directors and wa: elected class Wee-president at the winter treeting on campus. He is a past president of the Xotre Dame Club of Detroit, a member of the Engineering Society of Detroit, and a past chair­man of the Detroit Section, .American Society of Meciianical Engineers. 
1 928 Louis F. Buckley I 7A O J253 jy^^jjj Central Ave. Chicago 31, Illinois 
Thanks to.^tr. Cacklcy's efficient secretar>*, Irene Trippcl, and ED QUIXX, Head, Department of Guidance at Xotre Dame, I am able to give you a report on the 42 sons of '28 men at Xotre Dame. The letters after eacli name indicate the following colleges of the University in which the student is enrolled: (A) Arts and Letters, (C) Commerce, (£) Engineering, and (S) Science. 
The following '28 m.m have sons in their fresh­man year at N.D.: JIM ALL,\X (A), TOM BYRNE (A), DON CORBETT (A), DICK PHEL,W> (A), ED QUINN (A), FR.\NK CRE/VDON (C), EM­MET DOa\N Y (C), CHRISTIE FLAXAGAN (C), JOE HILGER (C), JOHN LEITZINGER (C), ED McKEOW'N (C), JIM KE^VRNS (E), JOHN McMAXMOX (E), and CHARLEY TOP­PING (S). 
Classmates with sons in the sophomore class are the following: JOE BAIRLEY (A), ROGER BRES­LIX (A), BOB GRiVHAM (A), DICK PHEL.AX (A), ED PHILBIN (A), CHARLES SCHUESSLER (A), WALTER TOUSSAINT (A), GER,\LD LUD­WIG (E), HAYES MURPHY (E), RON RICH (E), DICK TRiVNT (E), .MARCUS FARRELL (S), and HENRY HASLEY (S). 
Tlic folloiving eight classmates have sons in the junior class: DON CORBETT (A), JOHN Mc­.\UHON (A), JOHN aARLIX (C), JOE HE­BERT (C), GUS JENKINS (C), HENRY M,\SS­MAX (C), TOM NOON (E), and TOM RODG­ERS (S). 
Eight classmates have sons in the senior class as follows: JACK SHEEDY (A), FRjUCK BEGG,\N (C), PAT a\NNY (C), PETER GALLAGHER (C), GEO. HAXEY (C), JOHX LEITZIXGER (C), JOHX WOULFE (C), and XORB SEIDEX­STICKER (S). 
You will note that DOX CORBETT, JOHN LEITZINGER, and DICK PHEL^VN each have two sons at Notre Dame this year. Three of our deceased classmates, FRANK BEGG<\N, JOE HE­BERT, and JOH.V McXUHON have sons in the above list. 
Forty-thrjc percent of the student-sons are reg­istered in the college in the University from which their fathers were graduated. Exactly half of the sons of parents receiving Arts and Letters, Com­
mercc, and Science degrees were registered" in the 
same college as their fathers. Only one-fourth of 
the engineers, however, have sons following in their 
footsteps. More sons of AB men arc registered in 
Commerce than any college other tlian Arts and 
Letters. 
I noted in the Indianapolis paper in January tliat BOB KIRBY had been appointed Democrat member of the Indiana Toll Road Commission. In response to my letter of congratulations. Bob sug­gested that I arrange for JIM SHOCKNESSY and him to get together at the 30th reunion for a coupon-clipping contest. 
GEORGE LEPPIG returned from Korea a year ago and assumed duties as S-2 and Provost Marshal at Marine Corps /\ir Station, Miami. George is married and has two children in scliool at Holly­wood, Florida, where they live. Believe it or not but I understand George is the president of the 
P.T.A. there. 
JOHN WALL.\CE writes that contrar>- to CHAR­LIE LV>'CH's report in the last ALUMNUS, he did not fall while skiing—nothing so glamorous as that. He fell while ice skating in the mountains last September and fractured hts hip. John is in the mortgage loan business on Wilslurc Blvd. (5371) in Los Angeles, just a few blocks from ART CtVNTY who, according to John, owns the Prudential Life Insurance Co. John*s oldest daugh­ter is a Holy Cross nun located in Seattle. Daugh­ter No. 2 ii an Immaculate Heart nun located nearby in lIolly\vood. Daughter No. 3 presented John and -a wife with their first grandchild in October. John will be back at X.D. this June to mingle with the Class of '27. He said he could be prc\'ailcd upon to return again in June of '58 if he can get FL/\NNIG.\N, McM.VNMON and BILL DAILY to chip in for the plane fare. 
ART CAN-TY reports that HAL HUDSON was formerly General Manager for Programing for CBS-TV, but left there a couple of years ago to make Zane Grey pictures whicli arc being shown on TV now. Hal is at present a director of the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera Association. 
EMMET DOHANY is in real estate sales at 600 Dime Building in Detroit. Emmet has three chil­dren. GEORGE HANEY is a furniture manu­facturer at 1600 Berkey Ave. S.E., in Grand Rapids, Michigan. George has t^vo daughters and one son. TOM RODGERS, who was with our class in 1924­25, is sales manager for the Penn-Dbdc Cement Corp. at 3567 Lake Shore Road in Buffalo, N. Y. Tom has six children, two boys and four girls. ED PHILBIN, whose address is 68 Wilson Street, Clinton, Mass., has three sons. 
I noted recently where C. A. SPORL, JR., of New Orleans ^^'as listed as a sponsor of the Manion Forum. 
DAVE SMITH reports from 1111 K. Lakeside Drive, Lake Worth, Fla., where he now lives. Dave has his arcliitccts license in Florida and hopes to use it a bit. He mentioned that he met JERRY HOLL.\ND at the wake of GEORGE COURY's father in Miami. 
RAY MULLIGxVN remarked after reading the lengthy *28 colmnn in the last issue of the ALUM­NUS that they may have to change the name of tlic magazine to **AIumni—'28 and Other Years." I will need more continuing cooperation in sub­mittal of news by '28 men if these. columns arc to continue to live up to that record. Ray visited LOU NORMAN on the occasion of a trip to the' General ^totors offices in Detroit. He had luncli with ART GLExVSON in Akron after a visit to the B. F. Goodrich Company where Art is Superin­tendent of Plant 4. Ray reports that while haWng luncli with BERT KORZEN recently in Chicago they met D/\N MOORE, who was made Superin­tendent of Industrial Relations for the Hawthorne Plant of Western Electric last fall. Rt\Y MUL­LIG/\N is Assistant Secretary of the Chicago Title and Trust Company in Chicago. 
After a great deal oE effort, I am able to give you some nc\vs on several fellows whose names have not appeared here in years, if e\er. 
Many of you will remember HENRY CLEMENT, who did a baibcring business in our room in Fresh­man Hall. Henry v--us with us our freshman year only. He received his law degree from Rutgers in 1926. He now practices law in Plainficid, N. J., and has been municipal court magistrate there for 14 years. Henry is the Chairman of the Board of the Mid-City Trust Company and of the Suburban Trust Company, tlie Refractor>' & Insulating Corp. of Ne%v York, and the PuK*a Corp. He is a member of the executive committee of the National Safety Council and President of the Plainfield Bar Asso­ciation. Henry has been a lecturer at Seton Hall University and Rutgers University. You will find an article in the N. J. Law Journal, April 1953, on Chemical Tests in Dnmkcn Driving and the 
F.B.I. Journal for June, 1&46, on Car Thefts by Henry. He was married on January 1, 1943. 
LOREE L.\^L\R CUNNINGHAM is the owner and president of the Business Institute of Milwau­kee. Lorcc was married tn 1930 and has one son and two grandchildren. 
PETE BEEMSTERBAER is in sales with Frigid­aire Division of G.^1.C. at Dayton, Ohio. His son will enter St. Joseph's College next September. Pcle is on the advisor>' committee of Sinclair Col­lege. I hope you stop to see me, Pete, the next time you are in your old home town. 
ILVROLD a\NAVAN is senior parole officer in charge of the interstate bureau with the New York State Division of Parole in Albany, N. Y, He received his M.A. degree from New York Univer­sity. Harold has three cluldrcn, ages 16 to 21. His daughter is a senior at State Teaclicrs College in Mbany, N. Y. One of his sons is at St. Micliael's College, Winooski, Vermont. 
BOB BAXNON is associate professor in metallurgy and consulting metallurgist at tlie Newark College of Engineering at Newark, N. J. Bob received his S.^f. degree from M.I.T. in 1930. He was married August 18, 1931. He has four cluldrcn, ages 13 to 24. His oldest son went to N.D. for two years, then into the Marine Corps. /Vnothcr son is a freshman at Newark College of Engineering. 
BERNARD CONNELLY is in the credit depart­ment of the Central Trust Company in Rochester, 
N. Y. Bob was married 25 years ,ago on .April 2. DICK TR^VNT is with the Mulcahy Lumber Co. in Tucson, Arizona. He is also Interested in farm­ing. Dick's son is a sophomore at N.D. in aero­
nautical engineering. Dick sees ELMER BESTON who also lives in Tucson. 
ED McCORMACK is with Kastor, Farrell, Ches­ley & Clifford, Inc., 400 Madison Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. As Ed puts it, *'I'm a copy writer on 'Ulcer Gulch,' Madison Avenue." Ed men­tioned that he was dbtrcised to learn of the death of JACK MULLEN who was also an ad writer in 
N. Y. and, like Ed, a former Chicago resident. 
I noticed in my reading of Chamber of Commerce materials that BOB MOHLMxVN conducts a "Third House" of the legislature in Lafayette, Indiana, for the Chamber there. I was not aware that Bob • was a former State Legislator until I read it recently. 
BERNIE GARBER reports that JACK WIN­GERTER went abroad in December for three months of supcr\'ision for De Rochemont films in Spain, Portugal, Italy, and South America. Jack is Vice-President and General Manager of Louis de Rocliemont Associates, Inc., producers of motion pictures. 

My list of changes of address indicates that TOAf BOV has returned to his home towii of Hamilton, Ohio. Tom has been chief engineer on 
M. S. Esso Little Rock, an oil tanker. FRANCIS DAVID has moved from N. Y. to Alexandria, La. ART HOLTON is back in Washington, D. C. Dr. BILL McGEE is now located in Riverdale, North Dakota. 
Father ALUIK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., had an­other successful Union-^fan35ement Conference at Notre Dame on February 22nd. 
JOHN FONTANA of Columbus, Ohio, sent me a clipping from the New York Times concerning the death of THOMi\S P. RYx\N, branch manager in Chicago for the Sylvania Sales Corporation. Tom,' according to the report, died on January 23 in his home at LaGrange Park, Illinois. He \vas 5ur\'ivcd by his wife and two cliildrcn. 
I noticed in the paper recently where our Class President, FRANK CREADON, insurance constUt­ant for the Metropolitan Life, was honored at a banquet marking his completion of 25 years of ser\'ice witli his company. Frank is now attending ^letropolitan Life conventions in New Orleans and Florida in recognition of his sales record. . 
Your Class Secrctar\- had an article in the Fcb­ruarv 16, 1957 issue of The Ave Maria on "How to Plan for ^fedical Care." JOE BREIG's article in that issue was "What Do You Mean—^American?'* Joe is a regular contributor to The Ave Maria. 
Nfay I conclude by urging that you send along some news. A year from now we will be getting ready to attend our 30-year reunion. Let's keep the '28 column full of class ne^^-s at least until June, 1958. 
From the Alumni ofiice: 

JOHN IGOE was selected as the 1956 Man-of­the-Ycar by the Catholic Men's Luncheon CIiJ> of Columbus. 
192 9 ^<>"^*l J- Plunkctt 
Biology Department Xotrc Dame, Indiana 
1 Q^ n I^evcrc Plunkett 
• ^^ " O'Shaughnessy HaU Notre Dame, Indiana 

The class of 1930 is asked to remember In prayer J/\MES E. GVMPAU who died in Brighton, ifich., Feb. 22. 1957, and WILLUM H. MORAN of Tulsa, Okla., who died Mardi 6, 1957. The latter is a brother of JOSEPH A. MORAN, *30. 
JON BELJOU contributed some news from the Ohio beat: 
The Henrj- T. Maddens, '51, of Chattanooga, Tenn., and their two daughters, Kathy and Lynn. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
Received your note about ncu-s in the ALUMNUS. 

FRANK SVOBODA, JR., '30, dropped in to see inc recently. He is an attorney in Dayton. He was with his father, Frank Svoboda, Sr., 84 years, ^vbo on January 7 presided at the opening ol the House of Representatives in Columbus because he 
•was the oldest member in the House. CY M.\THE\VS is in diarse of Cleveland's Public Auditorium traffic and parking facilities. 
EUGENE S.AUICKI was also elected to the House of Representatives and is now in Columbus in session. I lived off campus with him for a while. He is an attorney and also runs the Rusco Storm Window Company. Many of the class of '30 would remember him. 
As for mv-sclf, I am still organist and choir <lircctor of Our Lady of Peace Church here in Cle\'eland. I have been here since 1930. Have six <Jiildren: three hoi's and three girls—oldest 20 years and the youngest is 2'/2. I live on a farm in .Aurora, Ohio, just outside of Cleveland. 
JOHNN'Y MORAN, manager in White Plains, New York, for the All State Insurance Company, wrote recently; 
In \*icw of what you said about deadlines, this flotc is probably too late. At any rate, I am not a particularly good source of news due to the fact that I live and work sort of away from things. J am lucky in that I it'ork In the 5uburbs as well as live there. 
JOE KELLY, the pride of BrookI>-n, is about the only classmate that I have any regular contact with. During th- recent holidays, he and DR. GEORGE HEU'SON spent an evening at our home and I, at least, enjoyed it very much. I hadn't seen George since wc left scliool. TOM LANTRY is a local resident and businessman, but it's quite some time since I have seen him. 
I haven't seen HARRY FR:VNCIS since our re­union. I would kind of like to get together with him. 
Had a note from .\RT DENNEHY in New Y'ork recentlj-; 
I am now working with a former business (lab­oralorj' apparatus, equipment, and chemicals) com­petitor, i.e., I am now with Harshaw Scientific division of the Harshavv Chemical Company, Has­tings-on-the-Hudson 6, New York. Inddcntallv, DR. JOHN PREECE, '30, was able to fly home to Nebraska for two weeks, nothwithstanding his Trenton, Ne^v Jerse>', practice and other medical interests. John has scx'eral 2-year-oIds coming along at his home at Bridge Gate Farm, Ncuton, Pcnn­syK-ania. 
BOB HELLRUNG reported things as quiet in St. Louis: 
You asked for news regarding members of the class of 1930, and I was hoping to run Into some. However, things here in St. Louis have been on the quiet side. 
GENE KILLOREN is still practicing law here. 

Gene was alu-ays a qtiiet fellow, and he is still 
living quietly, so there is very little to report 
about him. 
Gene and I arc the only ones here from the 

class of '30. I am still in the medical and hospital 
credit and collection business, and we arc busier 
than ever. 1956 was our 25th year in business, and 
was our most successful year from the standpoint 
of total business liandled and total profit. In June 
of last year we were awarded an International 
Achievement Award for being the outstanding CoJ­
lectton Bureau in a metropolitan city. The award 
was made by the Collection Service Division of the 
Associated Credit Bureaus of Araerica. 
TIM TOOXfEY, the class vice president for the 

Eastern area, sends m a full report on people of 
'30 or near '30 vintage: Since I last saw you a bit 
of ground -vas covered, and I met a lot of nice 
people. 
It w-as good to see you and your frau at the ^fichigan State game and thank you for your Lindness. My sister, brother-in-law and "yours tmly** got off to a fine start with a wholesome meal 
•with the PLUNKETTS on Friday evening before the "cloudburst", the Midiigan Stale game. 
We took in the prc-gamc rally at school, and had a short chat with an old friend, JIM McAL-LISTER, custodian of the athletic apparel depart­ment. DON MILLER, '25, and his wife extended greetings. The Oiivsr Hotel mezzanine was the next stop, and CHUCK ROHR was the genial host. It is eas>' to understand his success as a rcstaiu-ateur; nothing disturbs his calm! Not even JACK CANNON playing the cliaracter of "Little E^-a" in a playette about a Notre Dame widow seeking employment from a classmate of her late husband. It was tear rendering! Ask those u-ho witnessed JACK'S bow to the world of the Barry­mores, etc The audience included his brotlicr, 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 
JOSEPH R. SIMONIN, '28 

On August 11, 1928j a few weeks after graduating from Notre Dame, Joseph R. Simonin was employed by the Detroit Edison Company In the firm's drafting and survejing depart­ment as a student engineer. He has been with the same company since that time and recently was promoted to Division Engineer In the Mechanical Division of the Design Engineering De­partment. 
The Mechanical Division is respon­sible for the layout of all mechanical equipment except steam generators and their accessories in power plants, heat­ing plants and other company prop­erties. 
A native of Hilisboro. 111., Joe %vorked as a construction laborer, struc­tural iron w^orker and millwright during the SLK year interval between recei\ing Iiis high school diploma and the date he enrolled at Notre Dame. 
He has been active in the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Detroit, in the Engineering Society and in Toast­masters International. Joe is a 'do it yourself type and built his own hi-fi set. 
Married to the former Julia A. Heinclike, they have three children: Joanne Marie, graduate of Mercy Col­lege; Martha Adelaide, a third year student at the Universit)' of Detroit; and, John Joseph, a member of the freshman class at St Joseph's High School for Boys in Detroit. 
1957 
DAN and wife, the BERNARD CONROYS, the JOHN QUINNS, NORDY HOFFMAN, HUNK ANDERSON, DR. "BUCKY" O'CONNOR, DR. "JERRY" HAYES, REGIS McNAMARA, and FATHER LOU THORNTON. CHUCK sure did a great job of making ever>'one feel at Imme in his suite. 
On Saturday, wc attended Mass at Dillon Hall, and wished TERRY BRENNAN well, but our kind ii'ords iferc to go foe naught. 
Wc had a short chat with PROF. PAUL FEN­LON, and FATHER RICHARD GRIM. CARL CRONIN, DAN CANNON, BERNIE CONROY and several others trekked to FATHER TOM BRENNAN'S room in Corby. Tiie residents of "the palace by the sea" really are H\-ing it up! They have elevators to hoist them from floor to floor. 
The next stop was the ATHLETIC OFFICE to sec HERB JONES. 
DAN CANNON met a kindly indiWdual on the campus named HENCSSY who needed tickets for the Iowa game. DAN told him not to worry about a thing, and sure enough he brought the lowan to the right place—the Athletic oflicc. Leave such matters to good old DAN! 
We were able to get into the Monogram luncheon on the strength of our name — the ticket laker thought wc might have been TED T^VOMEY of everlasting fame. I guess AC weigh nearly as much as the "Bad Man" did when he rocked *em over with his deadly forearm shiver. Incidentallv, we arc happy to report TIMOTHY ALOYISOS TWO.MEY is doing right well as a Miller repre­sentative in Florida. 
D.AN HALPIN, JOE S.VVOLDI, MOOSE KR/\USE, FATHER VINCENT MOONEY, and PAT C.\NNY, were those we met at the luncheon in the Navy Drill Hail. 
We pick-d up the following bits of interesting news—the number of granddadd\-s in our class is increasing. JOHN QUINN has joined the ranks, and he als? has a son preparing for the priesthood. GIL PRENDERGAST wrote folIovWng the Navy game in Baltimore, and he informed us even a tour of the hotels the night before the game, failed to uncover any "men of 1930". He concludes age is taking toll. How right can a man be? GIL and his bride \isited his son at school for the Oklahoma game, and he met JIM BURKE, who came on from Oklahoma City to witness the slaughter. 
Wc had a chat with "BUS" REDGATE at the Giant-Cleveland Brown professional football game following Thanksgiving. He brought greetings from the Connecticut regions. ED DEMPSEY, JACK CASSIDY and MIKE BISCHO were at the Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast at the Waldorf-Astoria on December 8. All three had eligible sons in town, and \vcre headed for FATHER MURPHY, the present Director of Admissions, to get a briehng on present requirements at the University. 
TIM O'ROURKE is back at work after hospi­
talization and a lengthy con\-alescence, following 
semi-serious surgery. **HOOLEY" SMITH is still 
going great guns as athletic director and coach 
of Mt. St. ifichael's Prep, here in the city. 
At the last New York Club meeting, I met up 
with T. (for Timothy) L/\RRY CRONIN and he 
said he attended the basketball tourney during 
Christmas vacation at Madison Square Garden 
where the Ufiiversity quintet accredited themselves 
very well as runner-up to the local Manhattan 
College five. "BOB" MULILVLL and GEORGE 
WINKLER attended tne games with him. 
JOHN DE.-\ recently moved to our midst to 
assume his new duties as an executive assistant 
with the Texas Co. with local headquarters in 
the Chrysler Building. 
DICK BLOOM, who gets to the campus now and 
then, reports on other visits In the midwest: I have 
been corresponding with GAYLORD H/\.-\S and all 
of the news of him and his family is contained in 
tJic following paragraph which I take from his letter 
to me dated Januarj- 26: 
"All the family arc in fine health and trust your? are the same. We have only Germaine and Geolfrey at home. Gaylord is in his fourth year at Notre Dame and Gwendolyn is in her second year at St. John's Hospital School of Nursing in Cleveland, studying nursing. She tells us that she Sees Mike Crawford frequently at the hospital. He practices obstetrics and g>"nccology and is doing quite Well." 
I also heard from AL SHIPACASSE during the fzJI. He wrote that he is now in a new home quite close to tlie new Ohio Thruway, asking me to drop in on my travels. Mrs. Bloom and I hope to take ad\'antage of that inntatton in the spring. 
AI's four children are growing up. His oldest daughter. Sue, is sudying to be a nurse. Mary Kay is at St. Joseph's Convent. Linda and Johnny arc home probably keeping their parents acti%-e and youthful. 
There is a thread of coincidence thru these notes. Al Shipacassc*s daughter is in the Convent. My younger son, Ron, is at Old College Seminary at Notre Dame very happy in his early studies, which he and wc hope will lead to Priesthood in the 
C.S.C. Order. 
My older son. Bob, a 1954 alumnus, is working for the same company that employes me and seems to be doing rather well in the Purchasing Department. 
JACK ELDER dropped us a note a short time ago: I am probably too late with this note but-nevertheless I wanted you to know that I received your letter and had good intentions even though thej- were side-tracked by time. 
Haven't seen many of our gang but have run onto a couple of fellows in my wanderings: Had a nice visit with BUD BARR, an old trackman, from Chalmers, Ind. who is just sitting at home clipping Coupons. Looks trim though so it must be a good job if you can get it. Had a nice but short visit with OONIE DONOVAN, Bedford's gift to the barrister ranks, recently. See JOHN ROCAP on occasions of importance. John and Jim recently lost their Mother. I have just come from Kentucky where I buried my Father on the 23rd. He died in California but we brought him home [o Kentucky (Lebanon) and buried him beside my Mother who died in 1922. Please ask the gang to remember them in their prayers. 
From DON SCHETTIG: I want to acknowledge your recent note in regard to class news but am afraid I can't be too helpful. BILL CLEAR of Altoona is noir president of our Notre Dame Club of Central Pa., and manages one of his hometown radio stations. I also sec ED SLICK of Johns­town frequently. I am still in the hardware busi­ness here in Ebensburg. 
From Alumni onice: 
LOUIS CHAPLEAU of the South Bend law firm of Farabaugh, Chapleau and Roper, has been ap­pointed School City attorney. 
FRfVNK SOWA h with the Sowa Chemical Com­pany, New Vork City, where he is helping to de­velop new products and processes and licensing others to manufacture and sell. 
Janics T. Doyle 
1931 
902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
About a year ago we ^verc actively engaged in a tremendous promotional activity to make our 25 year Reunion one of the greatest in the history of the University. Our efforts were so great that Congress pigcon-hotcd an attempt to raise the first doss mail rate to four cents per ounce. Since that time the dassnotcs pipeline has been as dr>' as the Oklahoma-Texas dustbowl. Due to the pressure of other activ­ities I had to forego any notes for the last ALUMNUS. A feu- days after delivery of the Januar>--February ALUMNUS GEORGE COSTEL­LO and GENE VALLEE were talking about it and called me to find out if I had been ill. Incidentally, a new daughter was born to the George Costellos October 26, 1956. 1 believe this makes three boys and three girls for George. He also mentioned that MAURICE GOODEVE visited with him for two weeks after the Reunion and had quite a time talkin it over. 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Chicago lias resumed a regular monthly luncheon meeting which is held at the Western Society of Engineers Club. 84 E. Randolph Street on the first Monday of eacli month at 12:30 p.m. If any out of town '31 men arc in Chicago around that time please trv to join tis. EDDIE AGNEW and NICK BOHLING have been present to date and several others I have talked to had to miss it at the last moment. I talked to BERT METZGER recently and learned that he became a grandfather with the arrival of Bertram HI this past January. AL STEP/\N, I understand, was in the hospital for a short while in January. I saw his brother, Ed, recently and had fine time talking about GORDIE SALMON. RICILVRD R. BAKER, now associate professor of philosophy at the University of Dayton since 1948, was one of the principal speakers at a regional congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine in Wor­cester, Macs., last November. Dr. Baker spoke at the general sessions of the congress on "Under­standing the Child You Teach'* and "So You're Going to Teach Religion". The topics ^vcrc based on the subject matter of a booklet on the teaching 
JOHN L. CASTELLANI, '51 
One of the top college basketball coaching jobs of 1957 was done by John L. Castellani. '51, in his first year as head mentor of the Seattle Univer­sity five. He was formerly an assistant to Johnny Jordan at Notre Dame. Throughout the season Seattle ranked in the 'fii'st ten' of collegiate cage teams and participated in the National Invi­
tational Tournament at Madison Square Garden in New York City. 
Coach Castellani developed one of the nation's most sensational stars, sophomore Elgin Baylor who was named to many AlUAmerican squads. The record at Seattle is all the more remarkable when it is realized that Castellani had only one regular player on which to stait building his current varsity. 
John succeeded AI Brightman at the Seattle school after the latter had won 180 games to 68 defeats and parti­cipated in six post-season national tourneys. It wasn't an easy period of adjustment for the new coach — par­ticularly in view of the shortage of holdover players. 
A native of New Britain, Conn.. John Castellani is unmarried. In ad­dition to coaching the Seattle five he is also Director of Athletics. 
of religion which Dick wrote recently. I had a short note from TOM i\SHE in January saying he was in Mexico. for a few days and tried to get In touch with BILL MORPHY, who, imfortunalcly, was out of town at that time. Tom, I hope you will come through with a report on west coast activities for the next ALUMNUS. I have bad a couple of notes from JIM and MARIE HcQUAID who are anxiously awaiting their June departure to Lourdcs. Word has been received of the death of RICHARD W. GIROU of Kensington, Maryland who died of cancer on January 7th. Dick had been hospitalized for several months previously. I un­derstand that AUSTIN BARLOW of Salem, Oregon, passed away recently, but no further details are availabts at the moment. Mass offerings tvill be sent to their families with the sympathy of the Class. Please remember them in your prayers. Sympathy of the dass is also extended to WALTER RIDLEY and his brother, John, '42 on the death of their mother, who died last December. Notre Dame and Northwestern will resume football rela­tions with the first game at Evanston October 24, 1959. This should make for some interesting meet­ings of *31 men in the middle west. I have been talking with GIL SEAMAN, RAY COLLINS and EDDIE RYAN who are awaiting mid-semester visits from their sons this weekend. I would like infor­mation from other classmates who also have sons at Notre Dame 

Among other local 'Slers seen recently are RED O'CONNELL, FRANK HOLLAND, WALT CA­HILL and JIM MULVANEY who promised to send me some news he received from JOHNNIE BURNS. MATT GARRIGi^ used to come through with a long letter occasionally, but he has fallen by the wayside. JOE DUNNE'S long awaited letter has not arrived so far. Recently I talked with LOU BUCKLEY, '28 who %vas an instructor in some of our economics tJazscs. 
I hope many of you ^vill take time to sit down and make good your promises of last June to send an occasional letter for our column. 
From the Alumni ofEcc: 

DR. THO.MAS H. VAUGHN has recently been appointed executive vlce-pr«:sident in charge of cor­porate development of the Pabft Brewing Company. He will be responsible for and will coordinate cor­porate and product development, market research, patent activities, tbe Industrial Products and Feed Supplement Divisions, and the Scientific Laboratories of the company. Tom also has been appointed to the adx'isory board of Chemical and Engineering News, weekly publication of the American Chemical Society. 
FRANK LEAHY is a director for a new In* surance company—the State Life Insurance Company of Colorado—in Denver. 
LEO J. KLETZLY has been named to the board of directors of the Catholic Men's Club of Co­lumbus for 1957. 
1932  James K. Collins  
• '^ ^  3336 Kcmnorc Road  
Shaker Heights, Ohio  

'25 UtRR 
m^ 
June 

(Editor's Note: The Alumni Ofiice has recently received an announcement stating that after March 1, 1957. J. H. Graham, Inc., will be known as the Collins Equipment Corporation. J.AMES K. COL­LINS, secretary of the '32 Class, »s president of the firm. The company specializes in Tokheim pumps, Morgan Island Forms, \"alvcs and fittings and other various t>'pes of equipment.—^JC). 
MURRAY BOOTH recently wrote that he in­tended to bz on campus for the reunion weekend. 
R.\Y PFEIFFER, Loulsx-ille, Ky., stales that he will be present for the reunion and "don't worry about the whiskey and scotch! I Intend bringing Yellowstone and House of Lords to let a lot of guys from our class know what I'm selling." Tliat should be just one af many reasons for all members of the 1932 Class ^o return for the Silver Jubilee festivities 
BILL VAN ROOY has been named Man of the Year by the Cleveland Club for h^ actiWlies during 1936. It is a well descr^'ed honor for Bill as he has worked well and hard for many years for the club. -He has been on ever\' standing committee, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 45 
FRANCIS F. McDERMrrX, SR., *23 

Francis F. McDermitt, Sr., was re­cently appointed Chief Investigator of the Legal Claim Department of Public Service Coordinated Transport Com­pany, Newark, New Jersey. Frank was graduated from St. Benedict's Prep School, Newark, ^vhere he attained outstanding recognition as a basketball player. He held the New Jersey state basketball scoring record of 79 points in one game. Frank graduated from the College of Law at Notre Dame and was captain of the 1924 Irish basketball team. 
He started with Public Ser\'ice as a legal investigator in 1925 and was named Assistant Chief Investigator in 1939. 
Frank is past president of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey and through the years has contributed tremendously to its STOwth and welfare. 
held numerous ofliccs, :nd was vcr>' instrumental in the Rocknc Memorial Communion breakfast this 
•year. Tliis could not liave been given to a better or more deserving guy. 
JOHN LFTCHER was in Cleveland recently and talked of practically nothing but his only and ver>* young grandson who was bom just before Christmas. He did forget Junior long enough to say that he 
•would be at the Reunion, and that IKE TERRY, ANDY McGUAX, MAURY MURR.\Y and several others from Wisconsin have their plans all made. 
Commander BOB LEE writes from Formosa that he is tlic only one whom he knows is definitely not o>ming back on June 7. He 5a>'5 that the Far East is cnjo>'able now ihat tlierc h no shooting war on. 
I just missed TOM McKEVITT in AVashington recently but was assured by liis wife that he will be on hanJ. 
NAPPY NAPOLIT.VXO has agreed to handle all local details for the Reunion, and has been working closely with the Alumni OlHcc to have everything in shap=. Many »vho did the job so well for our 20tix Reunion are working with him and reportedly doubling their cffons since this, our Silver Anni­versary-, promises to be the biggest ever with a record turnout. 
ROBERT E. GORMAN has been appointed as­sistant \"ice-p resident in charge of advertising at Allstate Insurance Company. He was formerly asso­ciated with San Francisco and Chicago concerns in advertising management capacities. Bob and his wife Ellen live with their four children in Wlmette, 111. 
From a recent edition of the Chicago Tribune: NEIL C. HURLEY, JR. drove >fonday morning from his home at 1338 Monroe Street, River Forest, to the Prudential building, Randolpli Street east of Michigan Avenue and the trip required an hour in the hcav>' traffic 
Tliat afternoon Hurl'-y president - of Tlior Power Tool company, whicli has just opened new ex­ecutive offices on the 30:li floor of the new sky­scraper, concluded an agreement with Helicopter Air Lift for daily copter pickup service and thereby became Chicago^s first copter commuter. 
Yesterday, riding with H. A. L. Pilot Jack de Vise, Hurley made the ''portal to portal trip** in 19 minutes. Tliis included a four minute drive from his home to the Ma>'\\'ood heliport, Madison Street cast of First avenue, and eight minute flight to Meigs field on downtown Northerly island, and a five minute taxi ride to the entrance of his office building. 
"My company has 'subscribed to the copter ser\-ice for all its executives, for customers, for our engi­neers, as well as m\-sclf, on the annual basis," said Hurley. *'Timc for our top management is too x-aluablc to waste it muddling along in Chicago's dense traffic jams.'* 
Tlior Power Tool is one of 32 major Chicago manufacturing or distribution corporations now sub­scribing to a "radio-copter" scrx'ice similar but much faster than "radio-taxicabs." Hurley said costs to him are "very close to taxi fares anyhow —the ride from my home downtown would be S5 by cab and, under our contract, only $7 by copter." 
Hurlc>' said his company has plants in .Aurora and in Cicero and is building a new plant in La Grange, all of them "within five to 15 minutes coptjr ride from our executive offices.** 
1933 Joseph A. McCabe 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
PAUL a\LLAGH^\N is an executive on the Belle­vue (Ohio) Gazette. He is secretar>' of the company. 
1 934 '^' ^*^^**^*"d Carey 18843 Inglewood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
FRANK L. LINTON has been appointed to the board of director* of Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation, New York City. Frank is also comp­troller of the company. 
C. GLYNN ERASER, *34, has resigned as Asso­ciate Secretary-, The Mcnninger Foundation, Topeka, Kansas, to become .Admin istratice Consultant to the Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth, Kansas, Inc., which Order has a tctal of 65 institutions from Chicago to Santa Barbara. A pioneer assignment, Gl>*ni' begins with hospital organization and public relations, in\-olving 17 hospitals. He will have headquarters from Denver's St. Joseph's Hospital, where he has already started cluttering up a desk. At iast convention of Public Relations Society of Americ.', Glynn chaired section of educational, cliaritable, and welfare agencies. 
1925 Franklj-n C. Hochreiter 
•^^ 702 Scarlett Drive Baltimore 4, Maryland 

THOMAS J. HILS has been appointed to the editorial staff of the New Haven (Conn.) Register. He formerly wrote for the Montgomery (Ala.) Advertiser. 
G. ALBERT L/VUTON has recently been named president of Security Insurance Company, New Haven, Conn. ' 
1936 ^°^*^*^ ^- E"^ 
Lobund Institute Notre Dame, Indiana 

1937 ^^"* Foley, Vice-President McCann-Erickson, Inc. 3346 Penobscot BIdg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
Reunion 
m^ 
June I 7-8-9 I 
•iwnpHi" 

From JOE DORG^VN, Chicago, 111.: I have con­tacted BILL KENNEDY, ARCH GOTT, LUKE TIERNAN, JOHN COYLE and COYNE O'CON­NOR—all have assured me they plan to attend the reunion. I w*ill also be present. 
From CARLOS A. HENKEL, Mexico City, 
Mexico: I expect to be present for the 20-year class 
reunion in June. Please inform me as to exact 
date, etc 
Froc JOE QUINN, Andover, N. J.: I saw JIM O'DONNELL of New York—he is planning to be there in June. I certainly hope we will have a good crowd and I will be there. 
From ALEX SLO.\N, Peoria, 111.: JACK KING, PAUL WINSOUER and I intend to be in at­tendance at the reunion. If there is anything further that I can do to assist in rounding up the gang, please let me know. 
From LEN TOSE, Philadelphia, Pa.: I do expect to attend the class rc:inton . . . am 5orr>' I have not answered sooner. 
From AL SMITH, Skokic, 111.: I plan to attend 
the reunion and I know that JOHN SH^WV of 
Tulsa and ED GARVEY, JR., of Chicago will also 
be there. 
From CILVRLES "BUCKY" JORDAN, Chicago. 
III.: I am all set for the reunion and looking 
fon%*ard to seeing all of the group. Talked to 
WALLY NIENABER last night. He and BOB 
BURKE are planning to attend also. 
From ED GANNON: I have been negligent in not advising the Uni­versity about a new addition to my family which now numbers five children with the addition of Mar\' Frances bom October 2, 1956. Tliis addition has resulted in the retinue of the Gannons being composed of three girls and two boys. I plan to be on hand for our 20th reunion in June. FRANKLIN J. FOX has announced the merger of the Florida public relations firms of Flynn-Fox and ^^arga^ct Tliale and .'\ssociates to be known as FljTin, Fox and Thai-. Tlie offices are at 86 Merrick Way, Coral Gables, Fla. Frank has been in Miami since 1950 and formerly worked for the Daily Ne*«. 
BOB WILKE was. a recent campus visitor. His daughter is a first-year student at St. Mar>''s College (on the dean's liat, incidentally) while his nephew is an outstanding quarterback prospect for the Irish football teim. 
GLENN \i. RICHxVRDSON is now personnel director of Bunte Brothers Chase Candy Company, 3301 Franklin Blvd., Chicago 24, 111. His new resi­dence address ^ 320 Belden Place, Munstcr, Ind. 
MARK LONERG.VN is the head of the Metro­politan Group Insuratkcc branch in Montreal, Can­ada. He is married and has six children. 
REV. THO.NL\S B. CURR.\N, C.S.C., who has been stationed for the past seven years in Santiago, Chile, has returned to the States and is assignetl to Notre Dame High School in West Haven, Conn. 
1 938 ^^^i*!^ ^^- Callahan 
Sports Publicity Dept. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

CHtVRLIE DUKE has recently been appointed assistant manager of tlie International Airport at New Orleans, La. Ch.*rlic was airport manager in South Bend for ten years. His new address is 4303 Perlida Street, Apt. C & D, New Orleans 22, Louisiana. 
FRANK CROSIAR, former announcer for >\'NT5U, has recently accepted a position as manager of the radio station in Nfarion, Ind. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
LEONARD SKOGLUND has been elected presi­dent of the Cutting Tool ^tanu^acture^s Association . at its annual meeting in Detroit. Mich. 
JACK SOLON has formed an association with a company known as Dcgan, Soloa and Cook, public relations counsel, in Toledo, Ohio. 
FATHER ELWOOD CASSEDY, founder of the "Home on the Range" for young boys in North Dakota, recently received a fine write-up in the Denver Register- Tlic stor>' described the great work being don; by Father Cassedy with youngsters. 
JOE RUETZ has been named administrative as­sistant to President Sterling of Stanford University. Previously, Joe haa been assistant football coach at Stanford. 
1 939 J^^^ ^"^^ Motschall Singer-Motschall Corp. 10090 W. Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
At the offset I want to thank all of you for sending in the news concerning yourself and family so promptly. As you can sec our class news in • the last issue was not only quantity, but quality. How­ever, I still haven't heard from many of you and would appreciate it if you could do so not tomor­row, but today. Here is the info I received since the last issue. 
Doctor FR/\NK R. KELLY, JR., lives in Rich­mond, Virginia, with his family of Frank R. Ill, 12, Michael 8, Mary Pat 6, Reid 4 and Colleen 1. He Sees CHARLIE R. RILEY a surgeon in Rich­mond and PHIL MALONEY of Washington, D. C. DOCTOR FR^VNK, would like to hear from ED HUGHES and JACK GILMOUR. 
CLARK VOLBERDING is a partner in a two-unit clothing store in Livingston, ^^ontana, where he clothes his three fine boys Tom 4, Dan 2, Jim 3 months. CLARK would like to hear from JIM TORMEY and CHUCK NORTON. He has seen ED SIMONICH who is head football coach at Butte Central High School of Butte, Montana; and BOB CONVERSE, who is president of the Original Equipment Co. (auto parts) in BilHngs, Montana. 
PETER F. S.-VNDROCK is the plant engineer of the Pacific Tel &. Tcl Co. in Portland, Oregon. He has a fine son named Peter F. II. PETER was on the campus last June as the representative of the Portland N.D. ^Vlumnl Club at the President's Con­ference and had a marvelous time .. . his first trip back in 15 years. While there he had a fine \isit with Father DOREMUS, who was his prefect in Sorin. TIic last classmate he saw was Father DAVID H. FOSSELMAN, who is teaching at the Unix'crsity of Portland. 
PAUL H. RICE, JR., lives in Wilmette, Illinois, with his family consisting of Jean Ann 13, Paul 9, John 6, Pat 2J4 and Mar>* Virginia 6 months. Con­gratulations on the last two since wc were together. Paul is Vice-President of the Geo. C. Peterson Co. of Chicago. He sees DAVE HARRIS who is an envelope executive tn Chicago, JOHN WESSELS the button king of Iowa and DAN RY/\N, a lead­ing Iaw>'er of the windy city. Paul—you were my first friend on the campus and I hope you will always be my friend . . . after that crack about "the chauffeur" I am beginning to wonder!!! Sec you in a couple of years. 
I am sorr>- to have to report the death of JIM ROCAP's mother . . . please remember her in your prayers. Also rcce'ved the shocking news that our classmate HERMAN S. SHEEDY died on Febru­ary 20th. Our sincere sj'mpathy to Mrs. Herman Shccdy. 
Our managing editor sent me a fine newspaper clipping and picture of THOMAS A. SULLIVAN who was just promoted to \^cc-President of the First National Bank of Greenwich. Nice going Tom . . . how about heading from you personally. 
MICHAEL J. (MIKE) McGUIRE is a chemist at the Continental C;in Company. Mike lives in Mt. Vernon, Ohio, with his fine family consisting of Michael Jr. 8, Mary 5, Martha 3, Maureen 2, Mark I and by now the new baby due in February. Mike would like to hear from JAMES H. SMITH, JOHN FERENCE, JIM McGRATH and BILL PIEDMONT. 
JOHN L. SUTTON is a Lt. Colonel in the United States Air Force who was stationed overseas at Bonn. John has received a new assignment at the new Air Force Academy at Colorado. He has two fine boyz named Larry Jr. 5 and Tommy 4. John would like to hear from DICK CASEY, FRANK PARKS and BOB SCHMTTZ. 
CHARLES R. RILEY (Russ) is a physician in Richmond, Virginia, where he takes good care of his six children (now seven, the last one being bom in February). Their names arc Susan 10, Sarah 9, Charlie 714, Henry 4, Ellen 3, Nora I. Russ reports that he sees tivo of his classmates who reside in Richmond. ROBERT A. SHEPPARD and DR. FR/\NK R. KELLY JR., and hears from another one, DOCTOR RAYMOND J. TILLE of Findlay, Ohio. He would like to hear from DR. BYRON a\SEY. Russ . . . Byron used to live here in Detroit where I met him at a Notre Dame party. Now he is teaching at Michigan State University iu Lansing, Michigan. JACK RODGERS, Byron, myself and our wives met in Schulers after the last ^fichigan Slatc-Notrc Dame game. 

Just made a retreat at Manresa here in the city, where I met TOMMY SHEEHAN. Was very pleas­antly surprised a few weeks ago to receive a call from TO.MMY McINTYRE who was %-isiting our fair city for a company he is working for in Tucson. (I hope I ;an correct, Tom) Tom is now a mining engineer having a wonderful time traveling and has two sweet daughters. 
If you have enjoyed the last two issues with the news of yourself and your classmates, it was due entirely to you for being so helpful. It would be nice to continue on such A high plain, so, how about hearing from all who have not written in before as well as "new" news from the ones who have. Thanks again for your help. 
1 940 J^unes G. Bro^^n 
625 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 

Our sources of info are slowly responding. Have a fine letter from ED MATTHEWS with a few tid­bits: Ed reminds me that it is just 20 years ago that wc were across the hall from each other on the second floor of St. Ed's. That was before the advent of the A.C. with Gilliland and his motley crew. I certainly do remember it. BILL HOPKINS had a pair of leather basketball shoes which I bor­rowed for the B.B. that year. Cheapest pair of boxing shoes I ever had. Ed is a Field Assbtant with the Equitable Life of N. Y. Incidentally, for you family men Equitable has one of the two or three best Whole Life contracts in the trade today. Ed is living in Evansville, Indiana, is married and has two children: Kevin Michael and a girl Shan­non . . . real Irbh all the way. Some of Ed's comments should interest all: JIM HUFNAGEL is a district representative for the Phiico Corp. and at last report was in Philadelphia, Pa. Attended the S.^f.U. game in Dallas last fall and met GEORGE BECKER, WALT FLE.MING and JACK FINNERAN. I mentioned having seen these fellows at the reunion but for further clarification Finneran is in the oil business and is located in Midland, Texas. Also TAD ILVR\'EY who is now HWng in Dallas. Things must be booming down there. JOCK HENEBRY, late of the Air Force, now in the Air Lines business, also at the game. Ed is very kind in sending along his '40 scholarship fund contribution. Remember men the quicker we have the deposits, the faster the money is put to ivork and the greater the yield by the time the funds are needed. Incidentally, I will buzz one of the local committeemen and find out the funds are being accumulated. 
Have an interesting letter and a very quick reply from one EDWARD H.ART of our class. If you remember in the last issue I mentioned that I had heard that Ed was bleeding badly after the Brook­lyn debacle last fall and the recent Ranger plight, ^loi'tly after the issue was delivered I received by roundabout means a letter with penmanship like you have never seen. Eddy must have written the letter on a bumpy flight. Or else he was so hot about my comments about Brooklyn that he had trouble getting ever>-thing on paper. The letter was sent to Newton, N. J., which must be near Ed who is li\-ing in Mooreiown, N. J. Ed is NOT \vith R.C«\. as I er:;oneously reported, is not doing engineering work but is a sales manager for the Microwave Equipment Co. ^Vell, it looks like I've found one way to get you fello^vs to write: just make a mountain of errors and the maligned reply in short order. I'll have to try this more olten. In any case, we appreciate the news. Ed confirms news previously reported that TON'Y CELLA and his wife have become parents after a long wait. Congratulations. Also have a short note from the Law firm of Hale & Dorr in Boston signed by PAUL HELLMUTH. Next time Paul is in town ^ve'll have lunch and I will have all the details. As of no\^^ it looks as though Paul is practicing up in Boston after attending 
WILLIAM D. MANLY, '47 

Administering a staff of 175 skilled personnel, William D. Manly is the associate director of the Metallurgy Division of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Graduating from Notre Dame in 1947, Bill is the author of more than 20 published articles on vari­ous technical aspects of the metal­lurgical field. He has been technical chairman of numerous symposia on high temperature metallurgy for the National Association of Corrosion Engi­neers, the American Society for Testing Materials and the American Society for Metals. 
During World ^Va^ II, Bill served in the U. S. Marine Corps in the Pacific area and in China. In addition to attending Notre Dame where he re­ceived both a bachelor^s and a master's degree. Bill also studied at Antioch College and the University of Tennessee. 
He has been extremely active in the Boy Scout program and currently is chairman of his local district as well as Scoutmaster. Bill is a deacon in the First Presbyterian Church and directs many of the young people's activities. He belongs to the American Nuclear Society and the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers. 
The Oak Ridge Junior Chamber of Commerce nominated Bill as a candi­date for one of the nation's 'Ten Out­standing Yoimg Men' awards in 1956. Bill and his wife are the parents of four children. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 47 
Han-ard Law scliool. This concludes the incom­ing letters and 1 repeal, fellows, let's have some word . . . even a penny postcard. If you aren't careful I am going to run a picture of my own family ci-er>- issue just to fill up the column. 
Wcl'll revert to the year book and proceed with our alphabetical roll call. Incidentally, for you fellows who have turned in late or missed a few issues I am going through the year book looking for itci;;s on people wiio were at the reunion. Tliis is the reunion of 1955 so don't worry if you are' confused. We haven't had any since but I have to recall \vho was there and tvhat 1 remember. 
I see ROCH LE PAGE occasionally. He is with 3 steel exporting firm here in the city and lives over in X. J. EDDIE MAHER is a partner in a shipping firm and lives out on L. I. ED Mc-LAtJGHLIX is a physician out in Lynbrook, L. I. At last calling he had four boys. ^Vhilc I'm in the XI's let's have a word from SAM McROBERTS, the Decatur Hash. DICK .\IETZGER lives out here on Long Island and wa« doing industrial designing of som^ sort at last hearing. TO.\I .MINOGUE is with the F.B.t. Met him about two years ago at Belmont Park. If it wasn't for the races I'd never fiil this column. JOHN MLYNSKV was at the reunion fraternizing with his old buddy JOHN FL\'NX from Conn. JACK MORAN, an old high school buddy is now located in Alexandria. Virginia. Jack was doing some broadcasting out of Wheeling, W. Virginia, and was called back for the Korean situation. He is back out now, mar­ried to a girl from Wheeling and is selling radio time for station WPIK in Alexandria, XHrginia. Jack and his wife have two children. Ole MIZE MORRIS was at the reunion. I do not have any vital statbtics. JOE MULQUEEX, one of the co­ordinators of the '40 fund, is living and working in Philadelphia, Pa. Joe is with one of the na­tional magazines and has about six children. We'll 
FRANCIS P. COSGROVE, '38 

conclude with the usual appeal for some news from all of you. 
JOSEPH W. LARKIX has been named sales Dr. Francis P. Cosgrove, who gi'ad-supervisor 'or Masscy-Harris-Ferguson, Inc., Racine, Wb. He was formerly with the Oliver Corporation 
uatcd from Notre Dame in 1938, is professor of pharmacy at Loyola Uni­versity of the South, New Orleans, Louisiana. He received a master of 
DE>r\'^ER—^Art Gregor>' (left), president, presented arts degree in 1941 at New York Uni­
Father Frederick Alann on his departure from Denver for a new assignment. versity and during the war years was engaged as a super\'isor by the Bur­roughs, ^Vellcome and Company, Tuck­ahoe, N. Y. in the manufacture of drug products. 
Frank attended graduate school at the University of Colorado where he was awarded the M.S. degree, major­ing in pharmacy and pharmaceutical chemistr)-. Ohio State University pre­sented him with a doctorate in 1953. 
His teaching career was continued as an associate professor at the Uni­versity of Nebraska for two years, 1953­55, and he then returned to Loyola as chairman of tlie pharmacy department. During the summer of 1956, Frank completed a course in radioisotopes at the Institute of Nuclear Studies in Oak Ridge. Tenn. 
Frank is a member of the following professional organizations: American Chemical Society, American Pharma­ceutical Association, Society of Sigma Xi and Rho Chi Society. 
Married to the former Miss Myrtle 

L. Bihm of New Orleans, Mr. and Mrs. Cosgrove are the parents of three children: John Michael, Terrance Patrick and Susan Marj'. 
and tvith MacCarthy-Ford Tractor Sales, Inc. 
THOM.AS M. TIERNEY has been appointed e-xecutivc director of the Colorado Blue Cross. He has practiced law in Denver since 1946 and after graduating from Notre Dame received a law-degree from the University of Denver. Tom and his wife and four boys live at 5533 Montview Blvd., Denver, Colo. 
FR,\XC1S J. "BOODIE" ALBERT, star tackle on Fighting Irish teana in the late '30's, has been coach of Covington High School (\^rginia) for a number of years. A rrcent write-up in a Roanoke. Virginia, newspaper praised Boodic's fine record as a coach and tlie great job that he has done with the city's recreation program. 
10A 1 Jamts F. SpcIIinan 
James F. Spcllman Co. 
7 East 42ntl St. 
New York 17, N. Y. 

I have lots to report since the last ALUMNUS. 
At the monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Ncv\* York Citv, January' 23rd. I met WALT DESEL and GEORGE SHEA. Both arc not 41ers, but are so close to our class that wc shall adopt them! At tliat meeting, the Trust Fund of the ND Club of NYC conducted its most successful fund raising campaign; over $7000 was realized from the raffle of a i:ar. That will help send several students to ND on a scholarship. JACK HOYT and his assistants are to be heartily congratulated for their wonderful work. Walt Dcsel b with Con-^oUdated Natural Gas Co., N\'C. Walt report' that NOEL WILKINS Is teaching higli school in Milford, Conn.; TONY BENEDOSSO is with the Milford, Conn., Highifay Dcpt.; FRED HOLSINGER in Chicago with Corn Products Co.; and JOHN MONAGHAN is at the Springfield (Mass.) Arsenal. Walt saw some of these boys at last New Year's Eve party. Finally, a call from LARRY BRfVCKEN that his new daughter has ar­rived. Tho* named her Eileen. You will remember that I reported just after our Reunion that Larr>* 
a gift in behalf of the alumni club to 
vl^'C; '-.^s^^^ 

48 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1957 
INDIANAPOLIS—^Thc student campus club of Indianapolis presented a check for $500 to the N.D. Alunmi Club of Indianapolis for the Scholarship Fund. Left to right: Jake Kicfcr gives check to Jim Recap, alunmi president. 
and his wife were expecting the baby at reunion 
time. Well, he DID call mc! 
Your secretary thought that a letter to the various members of the class might awaken some Jong­dormant interest; so 113 missiles were dispatched in Jaiiuar>'. The response has been wonderful. Please keep up the good work, men. Without further ado. liere is the gist of the most welcome correspondence: 
From DAX BR.ADLEV who is Sccreiar>' of the 

ND Club of Detroit. Dan has been married 11 
years, has 4 children, 2 of each; is District Mgr. 
for the Shell Chemical Corp. in Detroit, 154 
Bagley Ave. Has been with Shell 10 years this Sept. 
Likes his work vcr>' much. Dan was at the reunion 
last June and expects to be at the next one. 
From DON C/\SSIDY, of Glen Ellyn, III.; Don moved into a new house in Xovcmbcr- Best of luck. Don. Has three children, one boy, two girls. Don, also made the Reunion and enjoyed it im­mensely. Is employed as Staff Electrical Engr. of Crane Co., and has been with Crane for five years. 
DICK DOR.\—is working in the Investment Dcpt. of Life and Casualty Ins, Co, in Xashxillc, Tcnn. Is married and has two sons. Says that alumni activity is limited as there arc too few- ND men down there. 
ROBERT J. FALLOX—Practicing obstetrics and g>"neco[og\* in Boston and Milton, .\fass. fnstructor in same fields at Boston U. Medical School and Tufts Medical School. Is married and has three children. 
BEX FISHBURXE^Marricd and has six children. Engaged in private practice of law* (patent law) with his father at 702 McLachlcn BIdg., Wash., 
D. C. Lives at 3228 KHngle Rd. X.W., Wash. 8, 
D. C. 
FR.-\XK DOODV—a sales engr. for Farr Co. in Chicago. Is married and has seven children. Frank says he seldom sees any of our classmates. Thought wc had a lot out Chicago way. Saw Frank at the Reunion. 
ED GRAHAM—Avants his address noted, 419 Xorth Washington St., Butler, Pa. Sells industrial supplies in northwestern Pa. Has three children. 
BOB BOYLE—1812 Gatcwood, Okla. City, Okla. Bob is Irom Tyler, Texas. Made the reunion hut hasn't seen any of the 41crs since! Thanks for your encouragement. Bob. 
JOHXXY GUBAXICH—many thanks, John, for your complete letter. John was one of the less lucky alumni in not making the Reunion. We'll sec him at the next one, I hope. John was in the middle of a large financing for General Watenvorks Corp., 1506 Walnut St., Phila, 2, Pa., and couldn*t take time off. He is Secretary' and Treasurer of the company. Lives at 100 Galicia Drive, Mounted Route, Phoenixville, Pa. Is married, and has two sons. That is no small outfit for which Johnny works. It operates 86 water and telephone com­panirs in 19 states. His duties cover financial and accounting matters for which he is most capable baWng attained his CPA- Was with Peat, Manvick, Mitchell & Co. aftLr graduation. Left this account­ing firm lo go with his present employer, in 1955. Johnny and I have one thing in common—wc were both with the Finance Dept., U. S. Army. I didn't run into him, however. Will look forward to your visit, John. Be sure to call me. 
PAT PUTXA.Nf—8338 Kendalc Rd., Towson, .\fd., reports he has seen JIM MURRiW quite often. Jim is with Bethlehem Steel Co., Shipbuilding Division, Bait., Md., and has four "real nice children." BILL HART.MAX, JIM BARRETT, '40, and Pat were playing cards and reminiscing; (thought It took four to play bridge!) Bill is a Consultant Engr. in Bait.; Jim and Pat arc FBI men. Pat saw JOHX'XY ROSS last summer in Syracuse with Johnny's brother Jack of *37. Johnny is with the VA, in personnel. Has two children. Pat says he is looking for\*-ard to this column; wonders what has happened to AL FRERICKS, JOE PAPA, S.\M YEZERSKI, the McLAUGHLIX twins, CHUCK CRLM.MLVS, SHORTY HOGAX and many others. What do you say fellows, are you goinr to let Pat and the rest of us know? Pat thanks TOXY RO.MEO for the Reunion card. 
DICK EVERROAD—another long and interesting letter. Dick lives at 60 Kent Road, Glen Rock, 
X. J. I last saw Dick at one of our closed-circuit TV football games in 1955. Dick married a St. Mary's gril, Mary K. Tlues, of MO. They have four children. Has been with Curtiss-Wright Corp. 
WILFRED B. KIRK, '37 

His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman recently presided at cere­monies when Wilfred B. Kirk was in­vested in the Association of Master Knights of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta at St. Patrick's Ca­thedral in New York City. 
A graduate of the 1937 class, AVil is now a vice-president of the Texas Bank and Trust and a director of Nor-Tex Oil and Gas Corporation, both in Dallas, Texas. Prior to ac­cepting his present position, he was a vice-president of the Emigrant Indus­trial Savings Bank in New York and before that was associated with the First National Bank in N. Y. 
He completed a series of studies in the Harvard Graduate School of Busi­ness Administration in 1948 and is president of the Harvard Advance Management Club of Dallas-Ft. Worth. Prominent in Catholic activities, Wil is a member of the Serra Club and the National Council of Catholic Men. He is also treasurer of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Dallas. 
Wil and his wife, the former Miss Eleanor Schnell of New York, are" the parents of five children and the family resides at 6238 Woodland Drive, Dal­las, Texas. 
Electronics Div., Carktadt, X. J., since 1942. His present status is Industrial Relations Manager. Dick has had recent contact with LARRY WALSH. Larry, as many of you know, is the Personnel Place­ment Officer for Haskins and Sells in XYC. (LOU MacKENZIE U also with H & S). He, Dick, sees 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 1957 
Paul F. Kopro^reki, '31, has been appointed by the National Council of Catholic Men with headquarters in Washington, D, C, as National Chairman of the Committee on Family Life. After graduating from the University with an A.B. degree in 1931 and M.A. in 1933, he did social work in Detroit, Cleveland and St. Louis. Paul also attended the School of Social Work at St. Louis University and Case Institute of Technology. He has been head of the Department of Sociology at the College of St. Teresa, Winona, Minn., for the past 13 years. Mr. and Mrs. Koprowski are the parents of six children, including Loran and Mary Clare (foreground), Janet, John, Philip and Paul, Jr. 
JIM ^ffllTE, JOHNNY KELLY. LARRY CRO­NLV, JOE ABBOTT, PHIL PROVISERRO and GREG RICE fairly regularly. Some of these bo>-s are from the Class of '41, but ALL Notre Damcrs. One of Dick's co-workers is GERVASE A. FROE­LICR whose brother Gcrr>', a 41 cr, is a doctor in Newark. Other Curtiss-Wright ND men arc: HUD HAUSMANN, Budget Director of tlic AVright Aero­nautical Div., approx. class of '35, and FRANK DOYLE, of '50, Industrial Relations Mgr., Indus­trial & Scientific Products Div., in Caldwell, X. J. Dick compliments Frank as an extremely competent person who aciiieved a vcr^' qutck success with Curtiss-Wright. Says that Frank has done much to enhance Notre Dame's prestige within the Company, Thanks Dick, keep mc posted. 
ART MADDALENA—Art retired as a Com­mander, USNR, in 1948, after serving as CO of \*arious na\-al craft up to fleet tanker from Mur­mansk to Korea (saw some of that Mur­mansk run oa \1ctory at Sea—real hazardous!) Art has sc*-eral decorations, among wliJcli arc the Silver Star an dthc Order of the Fatherland War by Russia. Is at present a realtor and government appraiser on Caps Cod. Married a "beautiful blonde" from Westficld during the war. Tlie>* liavo three children. I should hai-e looked you up. Art. as I spent a week in Hyannis last summer. 
HOWIE SCHELLENBERG — Suite 511, 1025 Connecticut Ave. N.W., Wash. 6, D. C. Howie, too, reports a dearth oi ND men in his neck of the woods. ^Vherc'd they all go? Saw Howie in Nov. 1953 at the Wanvick, in Phila., Pa., after the Penn game. Also met his lovely wife. Howie re­ports DR. GEORGE W*. GREENE is in town. Is with the Nat'l. Inst, of Pathology. BERXIE LIEN-HARDj Ex. Ml, is a Navy Commander, stationed in the Pentagon. Mentions BEN FISHBURNE and ED FENLON. Lawyer Schellenberg practices law, specializing in Radio and T\'^ and before the FCC, Says that DANN^' STACK comes through Washington once in a while. Danny is a pilot for Capital Airlines and resides in Detroit. Howie's wife, by the way, is Sarah Jo Caudill, St. Mar%-*s '44, sister of HANK CAUDILL, '41, Ensign USN, Ulled during IVorU IVar II. I remember Hank as a most pleasant student. May he rest in Eternal Peace. 
BOB POHI^-Hi, Bob, wonderful to hear from you, way out there in Los Angeles. Bob's address is 16812 Sausalito Drive, Whittier, Calif., after Mar. 4. Very best in your new home. Bob. He has a good memory, too. Recalls my love for Florida, and that i*as uay back in 1937. I still go there, at least once a year. Bob has been married nine year: and has three boys and a girl. Was dis­charged from tlic armed forces in 1945 at San Luis Obispo. Is with Pacific Press, Inc., and has been since 1945. This company is engaged in manufac­turing printing—magazines, catalogs and color w*ork of all kinds. Also, are West Coast distributors for Time. Life, Ncwswjek and Sports Illustrated. Bob sells printing. 
RAY KELLY, JR.—Ray likes the idea of my letter to the Class. Has five children, one of whom is in high school. You're getting old, Ray! Is Manager of the Wm. C. Roncy & Company, Flint, Midi., a member of the N, Y. Stock Excliangc. Ray is also a member of the County Board of Superx'isors, and has just been elected Pres. of the ND Club of Flint. Congratulations, Ray. Reports he r^m into PAUL SCHIAPPACASSE who is selling for the Imperial Rack Co. JOE OKOPIEN owns a trucking and monng business know*n as Johnny's Messenger. Joe has an oflicc opposite the Fisher No. 1 plant in the south end of Flint. Ray gets to Detroit once in a while, and has seen VERN WITKO^VSKI a few times. Vcm runs a number of clothing stores; has SLX cliildren. Ray has had some fine get-togethers with FATHER' VICTOR DEAN, C.S.C., at Christmas. Ray, who attended the loth Reunion, is already looking forward to the next. See you there, Ray. 
HOWTE KORTH—a success story, richly deser-ed. Howie ha:; just started a scheduled airline service for mail, express and cargo between New York, Atlanta and New Orleans. (Saw one of your planes being- scrxised on the hardstand at Mo>"sen Aarport in X. O. last week, Feb. 24, but had no time to ascertain if >-ou were there). Has an oflicc at Idle­W'ild, and promises to call me when he is in town. TTie name of his atrline is AAXICO «'hich stands 
for American Air Export & Import Company. The home ofBce is PO Box 875, Aliamt Int'l. Airport Branch, Miami 48, Fla. May drop in and sec you, some time in April, Howie, as I tentatively plan to fly there for a combination vacation and AFRes training flight. Howie started this airline just after the war. It owns 32 C-46'5 (I just flew to and from New Oorlcans in an AF C-46) and has a long-term contract with the USAF, carr>'ing cargo bcltveen 20 AF bases (rom Texas to Seattle, and east to Alabama. He is President of and owner of the ariline, but saj-s he is evcr>'thing from porter to fJiief exec!. Has four diildrcn; hts wife is from Michigan, and in his summer trips to Michigan he sees his roomie of Howard and Walsh Halls, TOM CARROLL. Tom is tn the insurance business in Bay City, Mich. Howie attended retreat at ND 
in the summer of 1955, notes it was a wonderful experience. Stag's in close touch witli BILL HOYNE, at Da>lon, and used to see RUBE .MARQUARDT and BILL BURNS when the>* visited from Chicago. Good luck, Howie. 
JIM McC.\RTHY—1342 Suffolk Ave., Westches­ter, III. Jim reports the following: LARRY MA­JEWSKI is President of a chain of gas stations west and northwest of Chicago. Resides in Oak Park, has six children. EMMET STRITCH, Jim's neighbor, is President of the Illinois Club for Catho­lic Men, is connected with a large Chicago Bank. The Strildies have five diildren. BILL MOULDER, also liring in Westchester, 111., father of three, is manager of the Int'l. Har\'estcr Parts Depot in Broadview, III., making quite a name for himself. Emmet sees DICK O'CONNOR from lime to time. (Sgt. O'Connor is our class President, gentlemen. He must have two broken arms!) TOM GR^VDY recently moved to Denver upon a transfer to a managerial position with Carbon and Carbide. Tom and his wife have two children. Jim Mc Is a CPA, baring spent about seven years in the accounting game (why?). Is connected with a glass manufac­turer in Chicago, in charge of their financial prob­lems (Does that include *'how to make money"?). Jim has four sons, and has lived in Westchester since 1949. Will be sure to call you, Jim, next time I'm in your town. 
FRi\NK McGRODER—househunting in Syracuse at mid-February, having just been transferred there for Gen'l. Electric to represent the Laminated Prod. Dcpt. at Electronics Park. Verj' happy with the diange of station. Had a new son born Dec. 3Ist (gets a full $600 exemption, too, for 1956) named Michael Francis. Says HA^VLEY VAN SWALL is helping him find a home, in FayettcvIIle. Hey, Hawley, hows about some news from you? Frank asks Coppinger to get in touch with him. Use the address 416 Pine St., Coshocton, Ohio, unless you are sure Frank is in Syracuse at this writing. Frank says Coppy is with GE at 570 Lex, Ave., but I believe GE has moved into tlic new Socony-Mobil BIdg., corner 42nd & Lex. Come to think of it, Coppy, get in touch with me. We are close enough to use risual signals. 
GERRY PAVEGLIO—on a fancy letterhead, with lots of irolor on the engraved stationery*. Auto business must be good. How about that, PAUL PUGLIA? Had a swell bull session with Gerr>* and Paul at the Reunion 1-si summer. Both these 41ers are Buick -uto dealers. Only Gerry's business in-dudes Willys, Ponliac, GMC Trucks, and Chr>sler and Plymouth. No Jcguar?! Gerr>- has the true Alumni spirit. Sa>-5 he enjoyed the reunion as well as anything ever, and wouldn't miss the next one if he was as far away as Hawaii. His family status—five children, Gerr>''s ofiicial business name is PAVEGLIO MOTORS, Carpenter at Woodxvard Ave., Iron Mountain, Midiigan. 
JOE GILLESPIE—who used to share a room next to mine on the top floor of Walsh with the late BOB FITZGERALD. Joe has his own wdding shop and sales agcno" for welding products. Joe reports that JACK RYAN (athletic mgr. at ND) was recently named judge of Superior Court No. 1. in Indianapolis. Says he hears from JERRY RYAN evcr>- Christmas. Jcriy has nine kids, and runs a string of grocery stores around Cincinnati. BOB ILIFF is in the anhydrous ammonia business. Wliat's that? Bob's business is in Salinas, California, WTien I used to correct business law papers, Joe was an interested party. How dsc do you think he passed? 
HARRY GOTTROX, JR.—Harry sends a notice of a brand new offspring, born Jan. 31, 1957, Harry Phillip Gottron, III. Very best wishes to you and ^^rs., Harry. How about a bit of ne\%-s before the next ALUMNUS? 
BOB SAGGAU has recently joined Lauson Engine Di\*isioa where he will represent the company in contacting and selling special accounts. 
Tliat's all the data received up to March 2. Four letters were returned for one reason or an­
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
other. JACK LUaVS, BOB OSTERMAN, FRANK KENNEDY and JOE GUILTIN.VN. Tlic s^vcn addresses for these and the other alumni are, for the most part, not correct. Please let mc know your addresses. It would be nice to hear from all of you. I have no more material for the next ALUMNUSj so please don't let me star\e. 
1 0^ 9 W]]]iai» £. Scanlon ' '^ ^ 400 East 111th Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
June I 
• 

From Ncu- York comes %vord that JOHN KIRBY nas joined \V. R. Grace & Co., Latin American Paper and Chemical Group as assistant director of marketing for that division. 
Previously* he was publisher of Vision, a news magazine published in Spanish and Portuguese and devoted primarily to inter-American affairs and events. Earlier he had scr\'cd the publication as advertising salesman and advertising manager. He became publisher in Januar>', 1956. 
Grace's nculy-formed L.itin American Paper and Chemical Group has begun an extensive expansion program in paper and chemicals in Latin America. Kirby received his early schooling in Peru and Chile before joining our class at N.D. His dad was formerly vice president and director of W. R. Grace & Co., prior to his retirement in 1953. 
Nice going, Jo-in! We have received notes of the death of the mother of JOHN J. RIDLEY, and also CURTIS 
R. SHOOK, a member of our class and a student at N.D. during the 1938-39 schoolyear. He died on October 26, 1956. Wc are happy to learn that FATHER O'DONNELL has said a special Mass for both. 
From Boston comes word of the annual lecture­ship in mcmor>- of DR. ROBERT S. JOHNSON, JR., of our class. He was Senior Physician of the Boston Stale Hospital and died of poliomyelitis on October 27, 1955. Anyone desiring to remember Bob by participation in the annual memorial lec­tureship may do so by writing to Tlie Robert S. Johnson, Jr. Memorial Lecture, Boston State Hos­pital, 591 Morton St., Boston 24, Mass. 
From the Midwest, this time St. Louis, comes a report from ED MANGELSDORF, faithful con­tributor: 
**J1M O'NEILL has returned to St. Louis after a lour of duty in New York. He b a vice presi­dent with the D'Arcy Advertising Agenc>*. FATHER 
Q. O'CONNELL has passed with flying colors his studies in Washington, D. C , and STEVE GRA­LIKER is looking forward to the Reunion of the yizvy Flying Irish. He's still :. baclielor!" 
The Chicago edition of the Notre Dame club seems in good and capable hands with Prexy ROBERT EMMETT WRIGHT of our class, and such able Board members as DON HOGAN, JIM CONWAY, BILL HICKEY and TOM NASH. 
EUGENE F. HUNT has been promoted to super­visor in the Pittsburgh copy department of Kctchum, MacLeod & Grove, Inc., Pittsburgh and New York advertising and public relations agency. He joined the agencj' in 1955 as a copy wHter after serving as assistant copy cliicf in the Cleveland ofHces of the Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn agency. 
1 943 J°^° ^' ^Viggins 
• '^" ^ 4800 Fairlawn Drive LaCanada, California 
CHARLES F. RALEY has been recently em­ployed by the Dow Chemical Company, Midland. Mich. He is an organic chemist in the firm's Physical Research Laboratory. 
We recrct to announce the passing on February 9 of JOHN J. (JACK) WAHL. Please remember him in your prayers. John leaves his widow, Mar­garet, and a son, Brian. Our class was represented at the funeral by JACK EDWARDS, ART KART­HEISER and IU\Y (REGGIE) FLYNN. Through our Class Mass Fund we arranged to have a Mass celebrated on campus on March 18; celebrant was FATHER GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., rector of Breen-Philiips Hall, and a member of the Class of '43. Jack apparently had known of his illness for some time—even at the last reunion. His exem­plary conduct should be an inspiration to all of us; ho was certainly a credit to Notre Dame. The Notre Dame Club of Rockford (Illinois) has estab­lished the John J. Wahl Memorial Scholarship in honor of their former past president and member of the Board of Directors. 
Continuing with replies from our questionnaire: RAY SCHOONHOVEN is practicing law for Sey­forth, Shaw and Fairwcather in Chicago. Ray has two boyi arid three girls, the last daughter born September "18. His senior year roommate ZANE SiVNDOM iz manager of the Banking Department of the Chicago office of the American Express Com­pany. FATHER ^VNTHONY (TONY) BROWN has a student brother at Dujarie. BILL EARLEY and DICK TUPTA may remember Brother Elstan. He has returned to his home diocese to study and be ordained into the priesthood. He is presently at St. Patrick's Hospital, Missoula, Mont. He is studying i'lt his doctorate at ^fontana State. FRED GORE, a recent "Spotlight Alumnus" claimed by the Class of 1942. heads the R. H. Gore Insurance brokerage in Chicago. Fred has three children, two boys and a girl. Fred would Uke to hear from HAL HUNTER. JACK HEDGES is continuing his father's funeral home in Rochester, New York. He would like to hear from ED DORE before he meets him on the links at the 15-year reunion in 1958. DAVE DALV is a partner in Daly and Rutherford,' roofing and sheet metal contractors, Jackson, Mich. 
JACK REIS is employed by the Associated DIs­tributois of Indlanapolb. He has a son and a daughter. BOB K/\SBERG, his roommate, is work­ing for the pharmaceutical house of Eli Lilly. Another Hoosier, BILL LOWER, is a wheel in the Sears organization. Look for him at the 15-year reunion. Big S/VM MOLTER is a Kcntland (Ind.) lawyer; he is a widower ^rith five children. He 
plans to come up for our I5th Reunion next year. 
. BILL McGOWAN writes from Warwick, Va., that he is working for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics; he has a daughter. JIM CLARK is a member of the law firm of Clark, Robinson and HeII<:faush; he is also active in. Cincinnati politics. He has two daughters. CHARLES DEI­BEL works for Westinghouse in Pittsburgh. He says his roomie, DICK BECHTOLD, is running a furniture tactory in Grand Rapids. JOE FAR^VE^,L writes that he has one son and two daughters. He says his senior roommate, BOB BAKER, is canning p2as and corn. He can explain that one at the reunion. 
My next door neighbor in senior year, RAY LaFORGE, is working in Greenville, S. C , for Table Rock Laboratories, manufacturers of pharma­ceuticals. He wants to hear from PAUL ^^XBER, JOE FAGGAN and JOHN McDOWELL. Send your mail to 32 Meyers Court, Greenville, S. C. 
FATHER DICK O'BRIEN is chaplain at St. Mar>-'5 Hospital, Galesburg, III. He is also Ath­letic Director at Corpus Christ! High in Galesburg. Corpus Christ! must have some good ball clubs under the guidance of former end O'Brien. You may remember that Father Dick was assistant pastor at Holy Trinity in Bloomington for 10 years. We hope that Father Dick con celebrate one of the Class Masses at the 15-year reunion. BILL McCALLISTER works for Armco Dnunage and Metal Products, Tallahassee, Fla. He has two daughters. BILL LILJESTROM is assistant man­ager of the Chemical ai:d Petroleum market in the General Sales Office of Reynolds Metals Company, Louisville, Ky. He has three children. Bill is helping promote the United Charities and Little League Baseball. RICHARD D. MURRAY. M.D., M.Sc(Med.) practices medicine specialiring in plas­tic surgerj*. He is verj' active in Youngstown, O., civic organizations and is also active in a host of medical organizations. BOB W^ALSH is moving to Decatur, III., where he works for the Gulf Oil Corp. He has a son and three daughters. He writes that BILL COSTELLO is in the lumber business in Gloucester, N. J. 
JIM MADIGAN heads James Madi'gan and Co., CPA's in Little Rock, Ark. He has five children: two boy*s and thre: girls. Jim is an active K.C. BILL SHERER with his twin brother as a business 
LCDR Joseph H. Judith, USX, *42, Commanding Officer of Boat Unit TWO, U. S. Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek, Virginia, welcomes aboard his new Administrative Assistant, LTJG James L. Hesburgh, USN, '55 (left). 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1937 
partner works for £. Brielmaler and Son, architects, Milwaukee, Wis. Bill has a son and a daughter. . ROGER HENORIC K i$ a general contractor in Saginaw, Midi, liz has one son and five daughters. He would like to hear from "RIP" COLLINS and JACK DUGGAN. You can get all the ready mix concrete ycu need from PETE MORITZ in Mans­field, O. Pete has two sons and two daughters. FATHER JEROME J. HEALY, O.S.B., leadies history and coaclics the basketball team at the Abbey Sclicol, Canon City, Colo. He talked to BILL STEWART when Bill-was in Colorado Springs to referee the NCAA hockey playoffs. FRANK EBXER works for th: oldest bank in Micliigan, 
the Detroit Bank and Trust Company. He has a son and a daughter. Frank says that CHARLIE STELT^L•\X was a recfnl transfer to Detroit. 
JOHN (REBEL) LAXAHAX, that great football center and photo concessionaire, puts in his time at the Lanalian Lumber Company, JackionviUc, Fla. FRED GANS, M.D., practices in Salina, Kas. He has eight duldren: three boys and five girls. Fred's senior year roommate BOB OWENS also an M.D., practices urology* in Kansas City, Mo, BILL SPANGLER practices law in Gaiy, Indiana. He has three diildrcn. He will be looking for you at the 15-ycar reunion in 1953. WALDO WILSON is treasurer of Castlcs-Wilson Buick, St. Louis, Mo. He has se\en diildicn. Another auto dealer has checked in—CLAIR L^VMBERT of Lambert Motor Sales on Chicago's Southwest side. Clair has three sons. He would like to hear from JACK XLALONEY. DICK T.ARARA works for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing. He spends his spare time as president ol Chemco Products, Inc., engi­neering consultants. Dick has two girls and a boy. FRANK SHORTSLEEVE works for the 'Metal Research Lab., Electro Metallurgical Co., a division of Union Carbon and Carbide, Niagara Falls, N. Y. He has a son and two daughters. JIM KELLY operates the Peoria (111.) Undcrcoating Co., Inc. He has five children. JOE MARGIN, an insurance salesman, is chairman of the Amherst (N. Y.) Democratic Committee. He has a son and daughter. 
JOHN (PINKY) WALSH works for the Midland Pipe and Supply Co., Cicero, 111. He has three sons and two daughters. He is a director of the Cicero Manufacturing Assodation and the Commu­nity Chest, JOE CAMP.AGNA, one of Jake Kline's former aces, owns and operates the LC Ranch in Fouler, Ind. He has three bo\-s and two girls. He would like to hear from JIM ALLEN and BILL CARROLL. Detroit invtstmcnt broker ED RONEY has four duldren; he works for Manley, Bennett and Company. He is also a coundlman of the City of Crosse Pointe Farms. ED DORE operates the Dore Agcnc>% 3120 Guardian Bldg., Detroit, Midi. He plans to attend the 15-year reunion. JOHN SCHMID works at the Crescent Electric Supply Co., Davenport, Iowa. John is president of the Electric Institute of T-i-Cities; he has one boy and two girls. He would like to hear from JACK SOLON. DICK HALL can be readied at the 
R. A. Hall Brokerage, Insurance Exdiangc Bldg., Davenport, Iowa. He has three kids. Dick writes that "BUCK" MUELLMA N is a trucking tycoon in Chicago. LEO KEATING plans to attend llic 15-year reunion; he is an attorney, married with five children, lives in Warren, Ohio. 
RALPH J. V1NCIGUERR.\ has recently joined the batterj* sales department of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. Ralph, his wife Esther and their five-year-old son reside in Akron. 
To be continued next issue. Thanks for the 
generous response. 
1 944 Gco^Sc Bariscillo 
515 Fifth Avenue 
Bradley Beach, N. J. 
Thanks to JACK McC.\BE and FARRELL QUINL\ N the column was saved for this issue! 
McCABE, a member of tlie New York bar, prac­tidng in New York City and residing in Hastings-on-Hudson, writes about reunions with New York area '44crs at football games in the East (Na\-y at Baltimore and Pcnn at Philadelphia) in recent years, "At these games and get-togethers after them," Jack reports, "I would invariably run into the foUou-ing: JOE GALLAGHER, BILL O'CON­NOR, JOHN DUFFY, JOE PONS, JOHN O'ROURKE, FRANK PARISE, CHARLEY DUNN, EMIL GAROFALO, JOE DALY, DAN O'CON­NELL, JACK MCGRATH. PHIL RUSSO. JIM SULLIVAN, JACK ^\TnTELY, and PAT BRAD­LEY. I know I've probably left out quite a few names that should ako be here, but this will give you a general idea," 
RICHARD T. DOERMER, '44 

The new president of Fort Wayne's (Ind.) Dime Trust and Savings Bank is Richard T. Doermer, a member of the 1944 class. He succeeds Harry G. Hogan, '04, former national president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, and first chairman and 'founding father' of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Dick is a native of Ft. Wayne and graduated with honors from tlie Col­lege of Commerce at Notre Dame as well as the Cornell University Law School. Prior to his association with the bank he was engaged in the prac­tice of law and is a former Associate City Attorney. During World War II, he served three and a half years in the 
U. S. Navj' and was honorably dis­charged as a lieutenant (jg). 
Active in civic affairs, Dick was president of the Citizens Council of Allen County. He belongs to the Kiwanis Club, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Friars Club, the Chamber of Commerce, and city, state and na­tional bar associations. Dick is a past president of Notre Dame's 1944 class. 
Married to the former Mary Louise McNabb, the Doermers reside at 4818 Stratford Road, in Fort Wayne, and they are tlie parents of two children. 
Jack also writes about LARRY SCHATZLElN's 

gala wedding last year when he was best man. 
AL ZOILO and his lovely wife, Rita, were on hand 
to toss rice at Larry and his bride. 
From Indian C?ve Lodge at Sunapee, Ne^%' 
Hampshire, FARRELL QUINLAN reports he is 
no\%* in his fifth season in resort business at the lodge on Lake Sunapce tliat accommodates 140 ^ guests. OfT-scason Farrcll occupies his time as a dircctcr of the local board of trade and the New Hampshire Hotel i\ssociation. He and wife Eleanor are proud parents of three daugliters and a son. 

*'Tliere aren't many X.D. men around this part of Xew Hampsliire,*' Farrell writes, **though I have spent some time with JOE GxVLL wlio is on the State's Attorney General's stall hunting out Com­munist subveisives. I persuaded him to come and give our local Boird cf Trade a talk. You knou­he got a lot more out of those public speaking courses than 1 did. Ho was the toastmastcr at the Universal N.D. night when we had Father Hcs­burgh as our s"est in Dover, N. H. 
"My brother, TO.M QUINL^VN, '38, and later law student at N.D. ia '46, is a lau-ycr and hotel owner in Washington, Conn. He is scr%'ing his second term in the Legislature there and is Secre­tary of the Connecticut Hotel Association." 
Commenting on recent ALUMNUS pliotos of ANGELO BERTELLI and TOM O'REILLY, Far­rcll observe tliat Angelo is keeping a trim waistline and most of his hair, and tliat Tom continues to be the most youthful-looking of the Class. 
CREIGHTON MILLER is tlie attorney for an organization of professional football players. He still makes his- home in Cleveland, Ohio. 
JOHN A. LYNCH, a member of the technical writing staff of the Bendix Corporation in South Bend, is teaching a course in creative writing in the Indiana University Extension Center of South Bend. 
Your secretary was advised by the editor that the deadline dates for the remaining issues of the ALUMNUS this year arc: May 25 and August 25. If I am to be spared possible libel action for "manufacturing" news to fill this space, 1 will need some help from you. If you can spare 10 or 15 minutes to get off a note or postcard to me, I would be grateful and my task would be lightened. 'XufT said. 
lO^C Al Lesmez 
•Tt a J22 TuIIamore Roatl Garden City, N. Y. 
A VISIT BACK 

Yours truly was fortunate enough to make a trip recently to the University for purposes of recruiting some of the present engineering graduates, and since the stay was close to a week's dumtion, it gave me an opportunity to see many old friends and to revisit many of the wonderful spots on campus whicli are sc dear to all of us. HAROLD ELLITHORN, Head of the EE Department, did a wondei^ul job of coordinating all the interview­ing. It was nic: sitting and talking to JOHN CACKLEY and JIM ARMSTRONG of the Alumni OiHce. Two happy occasions were short tallts with FATHER aWANAUGH, now Director of the Foundation, and with FATHER JOYCE, Executive Vice-President of the University. 
THE S.-\ME STORY BILL MOORE, Class Treasurer, is still tlie most unhappy man of our class. He writes that a great percentage of the class is still in the "Wliy-Should­I-Cooperate" category. The $5 dues (for five years) wliicli is asked- of every member of the class, is a small amount but it is the sole source of support for the various efforts whicli of neces­sity must go into keeping the class growing, meet­ing its obligations, and free from becoming a bur­den on any one small group of enthusiasts. 
A recent note from Bill Moore summarizes the sad situation and lists those of the class who have contributed. These men who have done THEIR SHARE are as follows: A. ANDERSEN, R. AN­DERSON, R. BATE.M,VN, REV. W. BEVING­TON, R. BL,\CKHURST, J. BR,\DY, J. BROZO, 
J. BUTLER, J. CAHILL, L. a\LLERAN, J. CARON, D. CARTWRIGHT, J. CASTELLI, D. CHAMPION, D. CLAEYS, J. CLEARY, J. CLYNES, R. CRONIN, F. CURRAN, D. CUR­RENT, D. CURRIER, G. DESPOT, J. DON­NELLY, J. DUGAN, T. EARLY, J. ELLIOTT, 
R. ERKINS, J. FAUST, J. FLEAKA, H. FRAI­LEY, E. FROST, M. GARRY, F. GILLIGAN, H. GILLIGAN, B. GOTTA, R. GRIFFIN, J. HAG­GAR, D. HARTNETT, J. HOSBEIN, J. JOHN­SON, J. KEARNEY, J. KINNEY, R. KOPITIHC, 
W. KLEM, J. KRA.MER, E. LaROCQUE, V. LAURITA, J. LAUCK, L. LAUTH, J. LAVERY, 
R. LEITE, A. LESMEZ, F. LINEHAN, R. LUKE, C LYDEN, J. LYONS, T. McCAUGHEY, W. .McDER-MOTT, J. MACK, F. MALONE, P. MAR­
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
TIN, R. MAURER, R. MICHOLS, T. MULHERN, 
G. MURPHY, E. NOONAN, J. O'CONNOR, R. OTOOLE, H. PAYNE, R. PEDROTTY, H. PIS­/VNKO, A. PIZZxVRELLI, J. POWER, C. POW­ERS, W. PFISTER, G. PUTNAM, E. RAUSCHER, 
A. REIS, J. RETTER, R. RIORD.\N, L. ROMA­GOSA, O. ROS/VNELLI, H. RYAN, J. RYAN, 
J. SAYERS, E. SHEER.\N, C. SCHWINN, G. SIPPEL, R. SNEE, J. TERRY, J. USINA, W. W.VDDINGTON, A. WADE, F. WARD, H. WAL­TERS, C. WOLF, W. WRxVPE. 
This paragraph is directed to YOU—you who have not bothered to give us that mucli of your effort as a vote of con6dcncc for the woric we are doms< Please return your $5 dues to Bill Moore, 720 Irving Place, Plainfield, New Jersey. Make checks payable to: THE NOTRE DAME CLASS OF '45. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT From FRANK DEL/\NEY, JR.: "Since I last wrote, Al, wc have been blessed with a baby girl, Louise Anne Delancy, bom last May 20th. This was the big event in our lives for the year 1956. Best wishes to you, AI, for 1957." 
From JACK TERRY: "Heard some of the details of your European \-acation from your brother-in­law. Art Kirchhcimcr. He is doing vcr>* well in Syracuse. Saw Iiim last Sunday as a salesman at Xmas Tree Sale to Aid the Blind. You must have had a marx'elous time in Europe. I flew over our Alma Mater on way to California on business re­cently-—didn't get opportunity to stop, however. This certainly hcs been a mar\-cIous year. With God's help, I certainly hope it »-ill continue. Every best wish for a Happy and Holy New Year." 
From BOB BLACKHURST: "Had a new boy this year. That makes three bo>"s and one girl— the nt'K member, along with the practice of mcd!­cmc, makes ours a busy family. We appreciate hearing from you and hope soon to see you on 
; campus." 
From MRS. JAMES L- LAMB: "Our fourth son, Brian, was born August 13, 1956. Tlie others are: Larr>-, age 6, Da^id 4, Timmy 2 years. The law busine:3 in North Dakota keeps Jim very busy. We attended the Michigan State and Oklahoma games in South BerH this fall—I should have taken uur boys along to reinforce the N.D. team!" 
From DxWE MURPHY: "I joined Lord Balu­morc Press, manufacturers of lolding cartons, labels and wraps as Midwest salesman. Completed con­struction of new home and moved in last September —Ne^*• address—2069 Old Willow Road, Northfield, Illinois." 
From LOU L^\UTH: "Out flutters a belated fiver for dues. Wish we had a return self-addressed envelope so we could just drop our stipend in, seal, and mail. It would catch a lot of slow Joes like me. 
"I need the address of JOHN L. JOHNSON. He was a '45 NRO who went into the Marines. Came by a photo of him that I'd like to send along if he'd write me and tell me where he is now, or if you would. I sent him a letter that hie about everj- house in Michigan, but came back. Please advise:" (Denr Lou . . . Tlianks loads for your letter. That address you want is: John J. L. Johnson, 203 So. Williamsburg Road, Birmingham, Michigan. Best of luck to you on your store, the Kiddie Korner, 322 Nortii 4th St., Burlington, Iowa, and on your wonderful family . . . Regards, Al). 
DID YOU KNOW THAT KEN SCHULTZ is with the Caterpillar Tractor Company in Peoria, Illinois . . . that he is married and has a 7-ycar-old boy by the name of Stephen, and a 3-year-oId girl by the name of Susan . . . that he and his wifr, Ruth, live at 1205 E. Forrest Hill, Peoria, Illinois . . . that Ken would like us to print VERN FROST's address, and that wc are obliging: Vern Frost, 1126 Hagemon, Burlington. Iowa . . . that your Sccretar>* bumped into JOE O'HARfV from Harrisburg (originally '45, now '47) in the Morris Inn when Joe was on a recruit­ing trip for his firm . . . that he looks well and Iiappy and very prosperous, and still looks as young as when he was a freshman with us . . . that AN­THONY RENZE, JR. and his wife Dorothy are vcr\' lucky in having been blessed with five possible ND candidates . . . that a recent photo in their local newspaper showed the handsome lads standing in line . . . that they are Rocky, age 9; Timothy, age 7; Mark, ?ge 5; Jilly, age 3; and Kim, age 8 months . . . that Tony is a partner with his father of the Tripoli Restaurant . . . that GEORGE A. SCHWARTZ, JR. is also doing his best to maintain the high class average for children . . . that his household consists of John, 3 months; Kevin, 2 
ALBERT T. FRANTZ, '29 

On January 8,1957, Albert T.Frantz was sworn in as Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of Colorado. So far as can be ascertained he is one of two Catliolics to ever serve on this court. 
A native of Denver, Colo., Al at­tended Regis College and later was awarded the first scholarship given by the Notre Dame Club of Denver. He received a law degree from Notre Dame in 1929 and graduated with cum laude honors. From the time of his graduation until 1936 he practiced law in South Bend and served as secretary of the St. Joseph County Bar As­sociation. 
Returning to Denver, Al engaged in law practice there until he was elected to the District Court in 1952 and re­elected in 1954. He served in that capacity until his election to the State Supreme Court last year. 
Judge Frantz has been active in lay Catholic affairs having been a presi­dent of the Archdiocesan Union of the Holy Name Societies; past president of the Notre Dame Club of Denver; and past president of the Regis High School and St. Mary's Academy Dad's Clubs. He is also a member of the Knights of Columbus. 
Married to the former Miss Dorothy Spry, Judge and Mrs. Frantz are the parents of two sons, Eugene and Rob­ert and a daughter, CoUette. 
years; Robert, 3; Peggy, 4; and George III, 6 . . . that George and' his wife, Lois, live oa Hilltop Road, Paoli, PennsyK-ania, where George is pro­prietor of the Penn Colony Wayside Furniture Com­pany . . . that George sees JOE O'KEEFE on occasion since Joe' and his wife Pat live nearby . . . that Joe O'Keefe started with the class of '45 but because of the wartime speed-up, Joe graduated ahead of schedule . . . that JOHN R. LAVERY is assistant to the General Counsel for the Masonite Corporation, Chicago, Illinois . . . that on one of his recent visits to the campus for a football game, Jacit met BILL BRACKEN, BUD GOTTA, BILL WADDINGTON and HANK PAYNE . . . that Jack recently returned from a two-week tour of training duty in the Naval Reser^'e at Bermuda . . . that Jack is presently a Lieutenant in thb advance base unit . . . that JOHN F. LAWSON, partner of Lawson & Law-son, Attomeys-at-Law, is fixing at Montcalm Street, Ticondcroga, New York . . . that he and his wife, Claire, have been blessed with a little girl who is now sue months old and whose name is Marda . . . that THO.MAS J. PELOSO. JR. is a Field Repre­sentative for the State of Michigan-Fair Employ­ment Practices Commi^ion . . . that after working for the Depart'menL of Justice in 1348, he worked as a Parole OfHcer, Department of Corrections, for 8 years . . . that R.AY BADDOUR has moved to 42 Spring Valley Road, Belmont 78, Mass. . . . that EDGAR H. STROOT, JR. is residing at 1800 Beryl Lane, Newport Beach, California . . . that REV. WILLIAM C. O'CONT^OR can be reached at 3036 N. Buena Vista, Burbank, California .. . that JOHN F. McGRANE's new address is 93 Colorado Avenue, Torrington, Connecticut .. . that CAPTAIN GEORGE H. BRAY, USAF, re­sides at 93 Forest Street, New Britain, Connecticut . . . that JAMES A. O'CONNOR, his daughter Laurie, 2; his son Michael, 6; and his older daugh­ter Kathy, 8, together- with James' wife, Audrey, comprise the happy family liWng at 134 Hillcrest Drive, Hillsdale, Michigan . -. that Jim is Plant Manager for the Essex Wire Corporation, where he has worked since 1919, after haWng worked for three years for General Electric . . . that CLIF­FORD RINGWALD is a doctor with an office located at 8401 Crawford Avenue, Skokie, Illinois . . . that he and his wife Ruth make their home at 3143 Brummel Street, Skokie, Illinois, along with Karen Aim_ 6V2J Jay Michael, 3; Ctutis Paul, 2; and Laurel Jean, 3 months . . . that Cliff spent two years in the Air Force between October 1931 and October 1953 . . . that his tour was spent entirely at Patrick AFB, Florida, where he made several flights to Nassau, Dominican Republic, Grand Bahama Islands, and Puerto Rico .. . that that's all the news for now folks, and that I think I'll hang my close on this line - . . Best regards, Al Lesmez. 
19 4 A J'"^'' Tenge, Jr. 
• rtw 2025 West Six Mile Road Detroit 3, Michigan 
I 047 Jsmes E. Murphy ' ' 1706 Churchill Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 
June 7-6-9 I 

Final plans are nou* being made for the 10-year reunion of the Class of 1^7 here on the campus June 7-8-9. The men of *47 will be- housed in iforrisscy Hall (convenient to the library, you kno\v). The weekend's activities will get underway officially Friday evening' with a class dinner fea­turing Dave Ford's favorite meatless recipes in the upstairs dining hall. For the balance of th;; evening the 10-year men will cluster about one of the portable rathskellers spotted around the cam­pus by the Alumni Association. 
First order of business Saturday morning will be a special Mass for all deceased members of the Class of '47. This Mass will be offered by one of the Hcly Cross priests who is a member of our 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 53 
Back in the *good old da>V these guys used Freshman Hall as their 'headquarters.* The photo vfzs submitted by Norb Skelley. Left to right: Al Anton, John Butler, Ed Ryan, Joe O^Donncll, Paul Frantz (died about six months ago), and Norb Skelley. 
class. As of March 20, 1957, the following mem­bers of our class were listed in Alumni Association records as deceased: PETER J. a\STELLI, WIL­LIAM P. DELANEV. ^^^LLIAM B. DOUGHERTY, HERBERT M. FRIEND, NOEL H. GOTTESMAN, CLARE C. LESER. GEORGE J. SCHOTT, RUS­SELL S. UXDERWOOD. LEONARD A. ^^'ALL, and REV. EDWARD B. WILLIAMS. Please notify your class secretary' of any other deceased members of the Class of '47 whose names arc not noted. 
Other Saturday events: the class picture on the library' steps, golf, bof luncheon, campus sight­seeing (eight new buildings since 1947; three more now* under construction), the alumni banquet in the dining halL More reminiscing and talI-stor>* telling on Saturday night. Reveille Sunday morning for special Field Mass in Community Cemetery to be attended by all reunion registrants. 
Approximately 40 members of the Class of '47 attended our 5-yjar reunion in 1952. Hardly a iiorporal's guard compared to ivhat we're expecting this year. Your local class committee consists of SAM ADELO, ED BALL, BILL BURROWS, ED CAPARA, BILL COSGROVE, PAUL GODOLLEI, JOHN CROWLEY, ART DIA-MOXD, AL\'LV FEUER, JOHN FITZHENRY, JOHN GUTHRIE. JOE HAAS, JIM HARRIS, SMITH HIGGINS, HENRY HOOVER, BOB KINNEY. FRANCIS KOBAYASHI, JOE LEAHY. ACHILLE MAGGI­OLI, AL MARRERO, ART MAY. JI.M MAZAR. JACK MILES. JOHN RICE, PETE RUa\NO. WARNE SCHAAP, J. D. SHARP, E.\N1S STARK, JOHN SWAIN, BILL THOMPSON, STEVE TSALIKIS and BILL WISHING. 
JIM SHERIDAN will lead a reunion delegation from Long Island. He promises to have in tow JOHN DUNLEA\% JOE DITTRICH, CHARLIE KOEGLER and DICK CORCORAN. John and Dick are FBI agents, Joe is in the plmnbing^ and heating business while Charlie K. is with Prentice-Hall. Lan!£>- (at least he used to be) Jim Sheridan is a real estate appraiser. According to Jim, JOE MALENO is employed by Socony and recently bought a new home on Long Island. TOM A(AN­GA N is teaching school. 

BRUCE E. SILL, of NOes, Mich,, has irans­" ferred his class membership from '49 to '47. Wel­
come aboard, Bruce, and we'll be looking for you 
at the reunion. 
Both FRANK SZYMANSKI and MIKE YAR­BENE T send word they're looking forward to our June reunion. Frank, ^^•ho is our class v-p, Is auditor general for the State of Afichigan at Lansing. 

Mike, our class treasurer, is a certified public accountant in Eric, Pa. Jack Miles says we can count on JACK NOONON for the reunion weekend. 
FRANK WILSON has been appointed a sales representative for Financial Industrial Fund, Inc., in the Corpus Christi, Tex., area. He also operates a building construction business. 
JACK LAUCK (now a Major) is overseas with the Marines again and fears he may not make our June sct-togcther. His brother, REV. ANTHONY LAUCK. is dc\*elopIng some outstanding student sculptors in Notre Dame's art department. 
JOE FINNEY has been appointed an assistant professor of ps>-cliiatr>- in the department of psy­choIog>* at the University of Illinois. He Is also director of the Champaign County Mental Health Clinic. 
Requiem Masses for LEONARD WALL (died Aug. 5, 1956) and RUSSELL UNDERWOOD (died Nov. 3, 1936) bavs been offered at the request of the class. Funds for stipends are \-irtually depleted. Provision must be made for the future at the June reunlo-j. 
DAVE KORTY's mother, Mrs. Edward W. Korty, died in Lafavette, Ind., in Januarv. 
JOHN MARTIN and FRANK GIORDANO will be heading from Wabash, Ind., for the Class of *47 reunion come June 7th. John reports a "new Republican" named Nanc>- Louise in the family as of last Nov. 5th. 
WALT LaBERGE is head of the Missiles Develop­ment Di\-ision at the Na\'al Ordnance Test Station, China Lake, California. He is in cliarge of the development of the Naxy's newly released air-to-air guided missile SIDEWINDER. He has been iden­tified with the SIDEWINDER program from In­ception in 1950. 
DR. JAMES E. VANDERBOSCH has announced liie opening of an ofHce for the practice of neuro­psychiatry in Evanston, 111. 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON has been appointed special assistant to the president of the Pcrini Corporation, Framinglum, Mass. 
Tlie fifth child was born to Dr. and Mrs. JOHN ARCADI last fall. They now have three boys and two sirls. 
BROTHER MARCUN O'DONNELL, C.S.C.. is teaching at Holy Cross High School in Flushing, 
N. Y. 
JAMES F. FITZGERALD was named JanesviUe, Wisconsin's "Outstanding Young Man of 1956" by the Junior Chamber of Commerce. Jim is a direc­
tor of the Chamber of Commerce and has been 
active in civic affairs. 
Chances are you have received—or will receive 

—more news about our Class of 1947 reunion In a 
separate mailing. Looking forward to seeing all 
of ^-ou June 7th. 
1948 Herman A. Zitt 
• ^^^ 635 Behnont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
1949 John Walker 
•'^ ' 826 Wing Street Elgin, Illinois 

JOHN C. KRUEGER was married in the Cathe­dral of Notre Dama, Paris, France, to Miss Maria Mcschian of Rome, Italy. According to a letter received from his mother, John and his bride spent their honeymoon on the French Riviera and are now at home in St. Cloud, a suburb of Paris. He is with the New York Herald Tribune Paris office branch. John and his bride received a Papal Blessing telegram on their wedding day. 
JAMES T. CAREY has been appointed assistant 

county attorney in Louisville, Ky. Jim also 
teaches adult classes in accounting and law at the 
University of Loulsxille and Bcllarmine College. 
FRANK SULLIVAN has formed an insurance 

firm with Joe McArdlc, former Irish line coach, 
which is now known a; the McArdle-SulHvan 
Agency, Inc. The firm is located In South 
Bend, Ind. 
JOHN "PEP" PANELLI has recently organized 

the J. R. Panclli Equipment Company at 22750 
West Eight Mile, Detroit, Mich. The company 
will specialize In construction equipment sales, 
service and rental. 
A recent note from CHARLES C. CARTIER 

states: 
Please note a diange of address for me FROM 4550 Lee Highway, Arlington, Virginia, TO Route 2, Box 633-B, Fairfxx, Virginia. 
So that it might be known what I have been doing since graduation in Fcbruar>-, 1949, the day after getting my degree I started in at Georgetown Law School. I completed two years, was called into the Air Force having gotten a direct commission and served from 1951 to 1953 as a Trial Judge Advocate and as a Procurement Officer. In Janu­ary-, 195", I started Chas. Carroll Carter, Inc., a Rrm engaged in building and mortgage banking. Am now living and have my office in a project I am building In Fairfax, Virginia. I was married In November, 1956, to the former Rosemar>' Con­nelly Casey of Pittsburgh. 
1Q5 0 Bichard F. Hahn *^^^ 6930 North OdeU Chicago 31, Illinois 
DICK CLE.\RY has been elected vice-president and treasurer of the Albert McGann Securities Company in South Bend. 
FRANK PELUSO is industrial relations manager for the Cincinnati Bickford Division in Cincinnati, Ohio. His home address is 8511 Pringlc Drive, Cincinnati. 
KENNETH J. BAYLY, president of the Notre Dame Club of Tucson, has been named Man-of-tlie-Ycar by tiie Arizona Agcncj- of Mutual Life of New York Insurance Company. Ken has been with the company four years and resides at 5301 East Holmes Street, Tucson, .A.riz. 
ROBERT B. TEUSCHER has been appointed manager of sales and ofKcc ser%'iccs for Union Pharmaceutical Company. He and his wife and their two children live at 123 Acme Street, Eliza­beth, N. J. 
NICHOLAS C. ANGELOTTI Is now employed with Dow Corning Corporation, Midland, Midi. He has been assigned to the Analytical Laboratories. .After graduating from Notre Dame, Nich received a master's in chemistry- from Case Institute. 
CHARLES F. McALPINE has joined Rader and Assodates, engineers and architects, in Homestead, Florida. 
HARRY A. YEAGER, Phlladdphla, Pa., was named drculation manager of the Louisiana and Gulf Coast editions ol TV Guide with headquarters In New Orleans. Until joining the magazine, Harry was enga^lcd in circulation work for the Philadelphia Inquirer for several years and served as home delivery super\'isor. 
ROBERT K. WILMOUTH. assistant cashier of the FirsL National Bank of Chicago, has been named to the steering committee of "Great Deci­sions . . . 1957," communit>'-wide discussion groups on U. S. foreign policy*. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 
195 1 Robert J. Klingenbergcr 
2634 Marcy Lane 
Ft. >Vaync, Indiana 

THOMAS G. BRITTEXHAM has received a 
Master's degree from Ohio State University. 
Received a card from BILL WALSH and his wife Pcd announcing the birth of Joseph William Walsh on November 12, 1956. Congratulations, BilL 
DAN CONNELL whose address is Apt. 302, Hoo­sier Court-{. Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind., writ-:s that after receiving his Master's in Economics at N.D. in 1955 and teaching for awhile in Valpa­raiso, Ind. he decided to complete his law schooling at Indiana U., while teaching economics. Dan is married and lias one daughter. He also' writes seeing ED CECH at Indiana. Ed is working for a Master's in Russian Literature at Indiana U. after having- scn't-d fciir ypars in the Air Force and spending some time studying languages in Mexico City. In January' 1956, Ed came down with potio and is now walking with a cane, but improving rapidly. 
DICK KOSAHCKI, c/o Dtctapfionc Corporation, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York 17, N. Y., writes that lie is now in the Advertising Department of this cninpany and his duties include advertising and public relations as well as managing the cnr­pnration's noiisc pubh'calion. Diet is still bucking it. (His home address Is Apt. 24-C, 6 Burns Ct., Forest Hills 75. New York.) 
FR.\NK SUPRENANT, with the following ad­dress. First Lt. Frank J. Suprcnant, 02283716, Post J. A. Office, Ft. G. G. .Meade, .Marjiand, graduated from Georgetown Law School in June, 1954, and after completing a 6-ninnlhs clerkship, was admitted to the Rhode Island Bar Association. He was then drafted, taking his basic training at Fort Di^ and going on to Fort Sill. There he applied for a commission in the Judge Advocates Corps and received it in September of 1956. Frank's interested in hearing from JACK WEISFJ^'D, JIM HENNESSY and CORKY DESMOND. So write, you fellows. Incidentally, Frank is still single. 
PAT O'SULLIVAN writes that, and we quote, "This married life is nothing but the best." Al­though his real purpose in writing was to let me know that his new address is 2015 .Militar>- Road, Port Huron, Michigan. 
HARRY HANIGAN is getting set for an altar "trip" in Chicago this June. 
ED BURKE is out of the service and practicing law in Gary. Ind. I've seen him in Fort Wayne a couple of times when he has visited his sister. 
DICK MacDONALD and Joey had their third child and second son jn March, John Harrison. Again, Mac and Joey congratulations. Their ad­dress is 241 Schilling, West Lafayette, Indiana. 
Received a letter from .Mrs. O^Donnell, .MATT\* 0*DONNELL*s mother. She writes that Matty is married, has one child and is in the serx'ice in the Judge Advocate General's Oflice. 
That is all the news for this time and it is short because I didn't receiv- much mail. In an effort to receive some, let me ask all of the fellows on the West Coast to write. Nothing long, just a brief note and that way yonVe survr to do It. Then I'll report all the answers in the next issue and let you know that some of ycur good friends may only iic a short distance from you. 
1952 w^"y ^-^^^^ 
•'"^ ^ 986 National Road Wheeling, West Virginia 
aeun\on 
June 7-8-P I 

RON GALIONE now resides in Huntington Station, N. Y., and works for Sperr>' Mechanisms Company. 
DICK U'OLLENSAK is stttdying for a master's degree at M.I.T. 
HENRY B. BORNHOFEN recently attended the Johns-Manvillc training center where he took an advance course in modern sales techniques. He is a represent ail v; for the Johns-Manvillc Building Products Division in Chicago. 
DR. JA.MES J. DOWNS has joined the staff of the Chemical Division, Midwest Research Insti­tutc. .Mter leaving Notre Dame, he received a Ph.D. from Florida State University. 
LT. WILLIA.M J. CORBETT, USN, was married to Diane Bernadettc Patterson in San Francisco, Calif._ on December 8, 1956. His address is VF-51, c/o FPO, San Francisco, Cah'f. 
195 3 Thomas W. Reedy *^^^ 337 Wagner Road Northfield, Illinois 
Probablv the *'travclingc5t'* member of the Class of '53 is LES HALSEMA (Lt. j.g.-Navy) who sailed with the Na\y*s "Operation Deepfreeze" to the Antarctica recently. Excerpts from Les' inter­esting and news-filled letter include the following: 
**PAT COFFEY is married with two children and is still a Lt. j.g. in the na\->- and stationed in the Radio-TV Section of the Bureau of Naval Personnel here in Washington, D. C. He is living in Alexandria, Va. *Yours liuly' is also a Lt. j.g. and after a y?=r at sea and two in the Pentagon, I'm soon leaving for the Antarctic and Operation Deepfreeze. I'm the Ass't. Public Information Officer attached to Rear Admiral Dufek's staff and will probably be down there for about six months. This year wc wilt land the first plane at the Soiitli Pole and will be the first /Vmericans to ever be there. Also the first men since 1912. I was up at 
N.D. last June for graduation when I acted as escort, guide and aide to Adm. Burke. Was quite a thrill for me to return just three short years later as aide to the Chief of Nax'al Operations after being a runny nose midshipman for four long years at the land of the Golden Dome! 
*'Lt. j.g. TOM H.ASSENGER is with the Staff of Commander Air Fleet Japan in Atsugi (outside of Tokyo). Tliis is his third and last year; Tom (and I) arc still single. Lt. j.g. BILL CONROY got married some months ago to a Pensacola gal. Bill Is in Nax'al Aviation at Sanford, Florida. JOE GORES is still at Stanford University studying for his master's degree in English. That's it for now, Hope to drop y'all a Hue real soon." 
Received a note from JOHN ROY who recapped his activities since graduation. John entered Oberlin College in Ohio soon after our graduation and pursued a course leading to a degree in the field of Fine .-\rt*-. In 1954 he was called in Service and has spent most of lib time at Fort Leavenworth. Kansas, working with rehabilitation problems of military prisoners. John will be released very soon from ti.e Army and plans to cuter Michigan State with a graduate assistantship in the Graduate School of Administrative and Educational Scrx'iccs. 
JACK FRITZLEN writes that he is presently serving out his last remaining months with the Nav)* aboard the U.S.S. Spanglcr and living with his wife (il.c former Marty Becker of St. ifary of the Woods) and daughter, Lynn, in Lajolla. Jack expects to remain in the San Diego area upon release and plans to work for Con\*air. 
Serving in Okinawa on the staff of the Judge Advocate is LOU BASSO. Lnu married the former Judith Anderson. 
JIM THULIS spent most of his Navy career aboard the MSTS ship U.S.S. General Freeman. The slitp commuted from Alaska to Japan via. Korea. Jim and hi* wife Virginia ha\"e a one­year-old boy named Michael Joseph and plan to settle in Chicago after discharge early this year. 
A letter from DICK WAGNER says in part: "After graduation from N.D. I entered the Uni­versity of Buffalo Law School where I was Asso­ciate Editor of the Law Review. I passed my Bar exama and was admitted to the New York State Bar. /Vs for my service hitch, I hope to resume the practice of Law in the Buffalo area. JERRY McCABE was married last spring and is a represen­tative for the Endres Trucking Company in Roches­ter, New York. JACK ENDERS is in the insurance business in Buffalo and plans to be married in May (as for myself, I'm still very single.)" 
DON CARBONE writes from Battle Creek, Michi­gan, that hs is a "Management Intern" with the Federal Civil Defense Administration whose national headquarters arc in Battle Creek's Percy Jones Army Hospital. Don says tl>at his graduate work is completed except for his dissertation. When this is done, he'll have his M.A. Don mentions that BILL S.ANTORO received his M.A. in Eng­lish at Columbia and is now at the Univ.-of Ottawa .Med. school. Also that BUCK HENNIGAN U at N.D. working for hts master's degree in Amer­ican Studies. 
Whether it be tliosc four years on the Scholastic at N.D. or just a God-given ability—Don is a real Newshawk. He has NEVER FAILED to drop us a note in time for each column and believe me— they're really appreciated. Keep 'em coming, Don. 
BILL MacMILLAN writes that since graduation from N.D. he has been practicing law with the ' Dayton, Ohio, firm of Murphy and Mayl. In the Sprinij of 1955 he and another young attorney opened an evening office in Trotwood, Ohio, which is a suburb of Dayton. The two offices have kept both very busy. Bill was married to Miss Lois Leistcnschncider on October 13, 1956, and arc presently living at 917 Richmond Avenue, Apt. 3, Dayton. Ohio. Incidentally, the name of B/II's firm is *'Jones and MacMillan." 
A few quickies: 
JAMES McN m is with the Army in Japan. 
PAUL RAYMOND currently doing field -and 
subsurface work with the Texas Co. in New Mex­
ico. Received his XLA. degree from Indiana Uni­
versity in August of 1955. . ­
TERRY BRITT entered the Army in August of 1955. Presently stationed with the Transportation 
Juu Sullivan, 36-year-old graduating senior, who will receive a Law School degree at com­mencement, with five of his most ardent supporters — sons David, James Jr., Jeffrey and Kevin, and his wife Tiel. 
Notre Dame Alumnus,' May-June, 1957 
Extending^ the hospitality and good wishes of New* Rochellc and residents to Lord Mayor of Dublin, Ireland, Robert T. Briscoe (left) is Mayor George \'^ergara, '25. His wife AUys Dwyer Vci^ara loolis on. Mayor Vcrgara's keen interest in old Erin originated during his football days with the "Fighting Irish" of Notre Dame. 
Research and Development Command. Tcrr>* is ex­pecting to be 1. father shortly. 
DAVE STEARNS received Iiis M.S. from South Dakota School of Mines and is now employed by the Shell Oil Co. Dave is now m Houston, Texas, working on a Texas tower off the coast and %vill move on to a research lab In June. 
BOB STRALEY is aboard the U.S.S. Maury. The ship left on a northern cruise after which Bob was discliarged and moved to Misliawaka, Indiana, to join his wife and haby. Bob was pulling for a Fulbright Scholarship to study gcolog>- at the University of \'icnna for one year. 
JACK SULIK. has been doing graduate work at the University of Arizona and expects to finish in Febru^rj'. Tlic title of "the Bear's" thesis was: *'Penn. and Permian Stratigraphy of the South Santa. Rita ^fountains in Southern Arizona." He plans on working in the Gulf Coast region after graduation. 
GEORGE THO.MAS is employed by the Conti­nental Oil Company in New Orleans, La. 
BILL REIDY is stationed in the Personnel oflicc at Great Lakes Xaval Base. Bill reports that BOB BICKERT has gone regular Marine Corps and is stationed in Camp Pendleton. J.ACK POWERS is the golf pro at the Xa\-\* Base in Yokosuka, Japan. He was supposed to get the job at Great Lakes but his orders were changed. When last reported, PAT O'CONNOR was tr\ing to get out of the Marines in time to enter Stanford School of Business. 
LEN LEROSE writes that Claudia and he are awaiting the arrix'al of their first child. Lcn and Claudia were married last July 21. Len is associ­ated in a family enterprise and is doing ver>* well on his end of it—building (and of course selling) homes. Lenny reports that JOHN JOE O'CONNOR is working in Chicago \rith the Standard Oil Co., JOHN FOTINO is with Magnavox as a promo­tional man in St. Louis and that BOB KELLY is reported to have entered tlie family furniture business in Minnesota. DICK PETRARCA passed the Bar and is presently working with Attorney Scariano in Chicago. Lenny concludes: ''Heard from KER. FULTON who passed the Colorado Bar exam (happiness) but was inducted immediately thereafter (sadness). 
56 Notre Dame AlumnuSj May-June^ 

TERRY a\REY is Hring with his wife and family in Chicago and selling municipal securities for Blyth and Co. 
GENE GRIBBLE writes that he is now living with his wife and son (Greg Owen) in Ellwood City, Pennsylvania. Gtne has been named Engineer In Charge of Research and Development for the Shaw-Perkins Mfg. Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa. 
REGE PHILBIN sends a very nice letter which reads in part: 
"MIKE TUCCI has been discharged from the Army. He scrx'cd as a clinical psychologist in an Army prison at Lompoc, California. I saw him practically ever>- weekend and he became quite the terror of the Hollywood starlet set. He has now returned to Miclilgan State to resume his graduate studies. In attendance at the N.D. rally prior to the Southern California game were DENNIS MORAN and JACK (BEAR) SULIK. Both are attending the University of Arizona Graduate School. DICK MOLOKIE, J,\CK DcCOURSEY and P.AT SAL.\.MIDA (all employed in the L..\. .Area) and TOM JACKSON and PAT ROSS (both still under the exclusive management of the U. S. Nav>*) were also present at the Rally. 
"Saw ED BUCZKIE\nC2 and GEORGE PAL­UCK last month. Tlic>' were in town for the annual Bankers Convention. Both looked very well and blended in nicely with the financial- set. It was a revelation watching Buck shaking hands and spreading personality over all those unknown con­ventioneers. Both are with the Chcckmaster Cor­poration. 
"Have inside reports tlial DAVE O'LEARY has already captured most of the paint business in Lansing, ^flchlgan. 
"As for myself, Tve been working at KCOP-TV In Hollywood for the past 18 months. Am the Asst. News Editor and am also the Sports Assistant for Tom Duggan whom I*m sure most of the Chi­cago gang \*-ill remember.'* 
Received a Christmas card and little note from JOHN O'CONNELL: "I'm now married as of last July to Emmy Lou Jacobs of San Antonio and am still In the Air Force flying with MATS. I ran Into DICK COTTER who Is a pilot flying out of Dover, Delaware. JOE O'NEILL Is now sta­
1957 
tioned at Lojcs Field, Azores, and expects his wife and two children to join him. Joe is with the base legal oITicc. I sec him evcrj* trip and we have coffee and a talkfcst. MIKE McKINSTR^V is pres­cnllv at N.D. taking some preparator>' work prior to entering the C.S.C. and CHARLIE BILLER­BECK is married to Pcgg>- Crcmcr, formerly of Rosary College. They arc living in Chicago and Charlie is with Standard Oil. JACK FINK was with the Air Force in Blloxi, Miss., at last report. 
WILLIAM j . DANER Is an attorney currently practicing In Bismr.rck, North Dakota. 
BILL KILMINSTER writes to say that he has received his Master's in Finance from Columbia along with HOWARD SCRIBNER and TO.M KRUG. Bill is now down on Wall Street as a Security. Analyst with the firm of Moore & Schley. Howie is with Chase Manhattan Bank. Other 
N.D. boys down In the area arc JOHN FAGEN with DuPont, FR.\NK BRENN/\N with W. R. Grace, SKIP WATERBERRY at Chase and TO.M BRENNiVN with a life Insurance firm. 
CL.\IR TRINKLEY writes that he Is employed as a civilian with the Air Force at the Wright Patterson AFB. Clalr is an attorney In the Con­tractual Instruments Office, Aircraft and Missiles Division. 
HOWIE BURKE and his wife, Mar>' Helen, arc proud parents of twin boys, Paul and Philip, born November 27, 195G. Tliis brings the Burkes to a total of four children. Howie is an attorney in Kenmorc, Nctv York. 
NEIL VASCONCELLOS writes from the "Islands" that he Is doing very well and was mar­ried last July after getting out of the Army. Neil's address Is 925 Koko Head, Honolulu IG, Hawaii, and he states that he will personally in­struct the first lucky gent flush enough to \-acation in Hawaii In the fine points of surf board riding. 
FRANK GERLITZ and his wife have two chil­dren and he is in his second year of Law in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. ED DcBOER announce the birth of a son, Michael Patrick, 6 lbs. 11 oz. 
JERRY O'CONNOR (Lt. j.g. USNR) is resi­dent officer in charge of construction at Allcc-Orange Grove airfield near Corpus Chrlstl, Texas. 
JOHN STOELLER writes that he ran Into DICK WOLFGR.\.M who will receive his MBA from Northwestern University this coming June. John's wife, Marv- Ann, received her BA from Mar>'mount in Los Angeles this past June but, John writes, "I am still a scholar. After receiving my MBA from UCLrV, I accepted the position of Associate Coordinator of Lockiierd Missile S>'stems Division's Ad\'anced Study Program. I have recently had a promotion and am now Department Administrator for the Nuclear Physics and Engineering Depart­ment of the Research Branch. We are working on a contract for an auxiliar>- power unit for the satellite program currently and I find my new duties both interesting and challenging. As I said, I am still a scholar working toward a Ph.D. in Bus. .Ad. at Stanford on a part-time basis. I have passed by first language requirement in French and am currently working on Russian for the second language requirement." 
RICHARD BREHL is working for a market research firm In New York. 
DON REYNOLDS recently completed a nine-month Air Defense Computer Training Course given in Kingston, New York, by the Military Products Division of IB^f. Don has been assigned to an Air Defense installation at McGuIre AFB, Wrightston. New Jersey, site of one of the SAGE Air Defence centers. 
STEVE FRICANO graduated recently from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute of Troy, Netv York, with a Master in Civil Engineering. 
WALTER SWIFT, Dramatic coach and Instructor In English at Canisius College, is busily engaged in acting, directing and writing. Tills past summer, Walt appeared In 10 summer stock pla\-s in Kansas City. Previous to coming to Canisius, Walt was a^v•a^dcd a graduate scholarship by the speech and drama department of Catholic University because of his outstanding dramatic work at Notre Dame. 
GEORGE FERGUSEN graduated from Ohio State University with a bachelor of laws degree. PAUL W.\LSH received the advanced degree of Juris Doctor from Ohio State University at the same time. 
WALL.\CE'NEYERLIN has joined the technical staff of the Hooker Electro-chemical Co. at Niagara Falls, New York. Wallace has been engaged In prirate law practice since his graduation from ND law school in 1953. 
PHIL CLEMENS left the USS Frontier sometime in Janiiarv' and was separated from the Navy shortly thereafter. 
As for myself, Dede and I were blessed Septem­ber 14ih with the arrival of our second child— Kathy. 
From Mrs. Joseph T. O'Neill, Sr.: First Lt. JOSEPH T. O'NEILL has recently been assigned to Eastern Ocean District, 1605 Mr Base Wing, 
U. S. Air Fiirce, /\zores Islands, where he is legal oRicer. His work .s corcerned with court martials, trials and tax matters. Joe, after graduating from Notre Danic, received a law degree from the Uni­versity of ^linnesota and expects to enter the practice of lew in St. Paul upon his discharge from scr\-icc. His wife and their two children are with him at tin Air Force base. 
EDWARD J. Flt-VNTZ received a bachelor of laws degree from Western Reserve University recently. 
ROGER O. ZOELLNER has recently completed a "post graduate" sales engineering training pro­gram at the home offices of the Trane Company, LaCrosi-, Wis. 
Life magazine's merchandising department has an­nounced that JOHN R. MAHER, Cincinnati, O., is a new retail representative. 
The letters we receive are really appreciated. Tliis is the only way we can find out and pass on what you're doing and news of other "53'crs" you've seen. Keep the news coming—by letter or postcard. 
1 Q54 George A. Pflauni, Jr. 
• '^^ 4262 Catalpa Drive No. 2 Dayton 5, Ohio 
With time and news being at a record minimum since the last issue of the ALUMNUS went to press, I find myself confronted, nevertheless, with another deadline. The timing which contributed to this plight might be a fiendish scheme on the part of our good editors to save some typesetting fees! We could easily turn the tables on them the next bsue if you pass on your current activities to your: truly, the *"Typeselters Friend"—keep nie infonncd!!! 
Received the following en tolo from BOB GORXLVN: 
"I noted your appeal for more information on our class members in the most recent issue of alumni news so wilt send on the following: 
"TOM aVLDER, P.\UL (MOOSE) KR.\USE, BOB MIHLBAUGH, GENE KUBICKI, and I are the '54- crew who will be gaining LLB degrees from the Notre Dame Law School this June. Right ROW nothing will ever look better to us than that little white scrap of manuscript. 
"x\s you can see from the masthead, Tom and Paul and I arc the associate editor, lead articles editor (as of the new semester), and editor-in­chief respectively of the "Notre Dame Lawyer." Tom has been running away from the rest of us recently for academic leadership of the class. Over and above his other laurels, he has just been appointed law clerk to Judge Potter Stewart of the United States Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit, Cincinnati, Ohio. Not satisfied with acquiring a new job, he insists on acquiring a wife as well— the lucky Irdy is Miss Patricia Coffey of Worcester, ^fassachusetts, and the wedding is scheduled for July. 
"I've been doubly fortunate, too. On June 8 f will marr\* ^liss Genevieve Somers of South Orange, New Jersey (which proves that trips to 
•the "Woods" do pay off after all), and a few weeks ago I received an appointment as law clerk to Mr. Justice Tom C. Clark of the United States Supreme Court, Washington, D. C. 
"I've spent the past two summers in New Jersey (for reasons that should be obvious), and Gen and I have seen JOE IMBRIACO and Ann Joan Condror. Joe graduates from Harvard Law-School ihfs June, goes to work with an excellent Wall Street law firm, and steps to the altar with .•\nn Joan in July. 
"Last month I made the acquaintance of a young Irish lass who is cute as her name. Miss Ntary Nfargaret Harrington, bom January, 1957, first daughter of JIM HARRINGTON and wife Sally. Jim works with Standard Oil of New Jersey, and is continuing his pole-vaulting in what spare time he can find for it. In the recent New York Indoor track season he was soaring over 14 feet again— shades of old college daysl 
"At last report, TO.M GODFREY, who also graduates from Ilarv-ard Law School in June, is going to work with a law firm in the great Wild West, Denver, Colorado. Tom is enthusiastic about 
WGHTfllUfflflUS 
C. CR/MG WHITAKER, '49 

The new vice-president in charge of industrial sales at Whitaker Cable Cor­poration, North Kansas City, Missouri, is C. Craig Whitaker, a graduate of Notre Dame*s 1949 class. Although he enrolled at the University in the sum­mer of 1942, Craig was soon called into militar)' seivice following a brief few months of studies on campus. 
During World ^Var II, he served the United States Air Force with distinc­tion as a P-51 fighter pilot. Following an honorable discharge, Craig returned to Notre Dame and entered the College of Engineering. He was graduated with a degree in mechancial engineering in January, 1949. Craig and his wife were two of the first 'settlers' in Vetville, the University's special housing area for married students. 
In the work he does for Whitaker Cable Corporation, Craig is associated witli Original Equipment Manufac­turers in supplying wiring harnesses made for electrical systems in the auto­motive and appliance fields. 
He has been active in the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City and is chairman of the scholarship committee. 
Craig and his wife are the parents of five children: Connie, Craig, Jan, Ted and Brian. His brother, JackF . is a member of the 1936 class having graduated as an electrical engineer and his father serves on Notre Dame's Ad­visor)' Council for the College of Commerce. 
the possibilities of life and law in Denver, and with just reason. 
"JOE BERTRAND presently Is serving Unde Sam at Ft. Leonard Wood, Missouri, and tells us that he h=s been assigned to "special services" in the basketball di%*ision. 
**MIKE LONG is swinging into the last leg-of his military career as a Marine jet pilot, presently stationed in a God-forsaken area of Texas. 
*DAVE NOLAN, the indomitable one, is now just about the trimmest and slimmest member of the United States Army that you ever want to see. It's TRUE, by golly, for I saw Dave during thb past Christmas vacation, and he really looks like the Army agrees with him. Right now he is sta­tioned just outside Washington, D. C. 
"More news in three more years, George! "Sincerely, Bob." MILT BEAUDINE reports in from 2271 N. 
Church St., Decatur, Illinois. He has been en­gaged in organizing a local alumni club there, continuing his notable basketball ou-eer and devot­ing some time to ihe Na%-y Reserve outfit in the area. He reports that on his first reserve training cruise all Ic did was "eat, sleep and play cards." Doesn't look like reserve duty for Milt is too easily distinguishable from his active duty as I saw it for him. Milt saw JOHN KEENAN recently in San Diego where John is stationed after "going regular" with the Corps. He abo reports that FRj\NK \V1SNESKI enjoys flying .Air Force jets out of Columbus, Ohio. 
A recent official looking announcement proclaims —Mr.' and Mrs. John Daniel Moynahan have the honor of announcing the marriage of their daughter Nfary Alan.i to -Mr. JOHN LEO ROSSHIRT on Saturday, the ninth of February-, 1957, Saint Francis Xavier Church, La Grange, Illinois. 
A recent Alumni Club meeting here in Dayton furnished me with some first hand information on some '54*5 right here in my own back yard. CLAIR TRINKLEY is at Wright-Patterson AFB as a civilian attorney in their contracts department. He can be found at 142 Skyway Lodge, Fairborn, Ohio. BOB ST^VNTON enjoys the same city at 316 Lov­ington Drive, Apt. C. Bob is doing art work at the base, as anothci envied cirilian. A tittle printed matter I received concerning others in this area reads as follows: "GENE HENRY, '54, and his wife, Alic£, announce the birth of their first child, a daughter, named Rebecca Ellen, bom at the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base Hospital on De­cember 28. 1956. 
"Gene Is currently assigned as a project engineer at the Base and Is due to be discharged from active duty in June. Following his discharge he will either go back to school cr into Industry. 
"TED BYRNE, '54, and his bride, the former Mildred Stevens of South Bend, are also living here in Dayton. Ted is a 1/Lt. in the Air Force and is due to be discharged in June." 
BILL HOWLEY Is an engineer with the Dayton Power and Light Co. He lives a few miles north of Dayton on 327 Vista Avenue in Vandalia, Ohio. 
PAUL V. MARRONE received a master of science degree in aeronautical engineering from Princeton University recently. 
ALEX PETRILLO is secretary-treasurer of the Notre Dame Club of Delaware and his address is 5 Edgemoor Road, Wilmington. 
THO.MAS J. GODFREY, JR., has been awarded a scholarship to the Har\'ard Law School. 
lOCE Lt. (j.g.) Thomas F. O'MaUey 
uw^^ 6738 Kenwood 
Kansas City, Missouri 

AVell, gentlemen, it looks like the ne\>i'5 Is few and far between this time since I haven't heard from too many of you since the last column. I'm afraid that I'll have to be guilty of what the jour­nalism majors call "padding." Why don't all of you make a resolution to send me a postcard as soon as you finish reading this column. Just a few words will do so that I have something to report the next tin:-. Remember, the whole thing depends on you. Let's not dwindle this soon after gradua­tion. 
DICK CALLAHAN writes that he is Personnel Officer at the U. S. Naval Ordnance Missile Test Facility, White Sands, N. XL He was formally aboard the U.S.S. Union with San Diego as home port. Dick reports that TOM HARTZELL 1$ in his second year at Buffalo University Law School. D/\N WILSON is ^^•o^k^ng for the ^Vilson Dairy Co. in .Atlantic City, N. J. He married the former Miss Helen Bryan of Ventnor, N. J. They now have one young Wilson and another on the way. Drop me a line, Dan, and let me in on the new3 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1957 57 
Anthony S. Kuharich, chief U. S. probation officer of Northern Indiana, was recently given the Hammond Junior Chamber of Commerce 1957 "Good Government Award." This was in recognition "of out­standing meritorious service in the field of social rehabilitation." He graduated from Notre Dame in 1935 with an AB degree and also received a masters in HI. 

when it happens. Please include poundage and all other vital statistics. JOE SAUNDERS, the old student senator, is now a PFC at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. Joe is a sports writer for tlic I>ost newspaper. Kansas Citv* Isn't too far av^'ay. Joe, so why not drjp up and pay inc a vbit? FRANK OLAZABAL h attending second year of medical school at Johns Hopkins University. Our oriental ambassador Is now the noted DICK NOR­TON, who Is doing hie best to maintain friendly relations in Japan. The Army refers to him as "the hostess with tlic mostest." PAUL "FUZZY" FAZZONE is now in Pensacola witli the Nav>* and is awaiting further orders. Paul is also one of the elite to have made Lt. j.g. recently. HUGH SCHAEFFER' is now working in Tulsa and If I hear from him in the near future, IMl be able to, report the name of th^ companv that presents him with his pay clieck. JACK GIBBONS recently received an "outstanding" citation from the War Depiirtment, plus a $200 bonus check, fur his work as a rcscarcli physicist. Congratulations, Frank. 
I received a very interesting letter from JIM STEVENS who is stationed with the Army In Ger­many. Jim has been overseas since October and only has II more months to serx'e. He enclosed a running account of his adventures In Deutschland and I must admit that the whole deal sounds like an extended vacation.- Jim is now the proud owner of a Volkswagon automobile and has gone on a diet involuntarily. Those cars weren't made for your long legs, Jim. He abo mentions that any news that reaches them is usually three or four w*eeks-old. Very few of the lop tunes find their way to Germany. Is it possible that Herr Elvis hasit't g\"rated--the continent yet? Jim sends the news to follow and indicates that his address is PFC. J. B. Stevens, US 65 555 865, Hq 8th Inf DIv-AG Sect., APO III, New York, .V. Y. BOB McGRATH is stationed with the Air Force at Wright Patterson field in Ohio. NEIL MASON IS an office manager of a local automobile dealer­ship In tlic Detroit area. He and his wife, Mar>' Jane, arc the proud^ parents of a baby girl. JIM KORTE is also spending some time In Germany and is working for the AG section of USAREUR in Heidelberg. (Don't ask me what ttic initials stand for.) Jim can- be reached bv w-rlting to him as US 55 555 252, AG Div, US.AREUR Hq's, APO 403, New York, N. Y. DON DIXON is rumored to be' in Germany also but he hasn't been heard from lately. DICK CONDIT is attending the Uni­versity of Detroit Law Scliool and plans to marry 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, May'June, 

Miss Martha Ecklin In August. Congratulations, Dick. BOB McC;\RREN is working for an account­ing firm In Detroit. TOM SCHRIT.MUELLER is working for the General Motors Corp. and has scrx'ed In the Army under the six-month plan. 
Fresh fron IG months in Korea with the 969th Field Artillery- Battalion, JIM BROUGHTON brought me up to date oh his activities and those of other classmates. He mentions that he found his artillery' duty vcr>* interesting but has been struck with the soberiig thought that it costs the army more to shoot three rounds of ammunition than it does to employ his services for one month. If you had a pointed Iiead and were filled with powder, Jim, you might be worth much more. He mentions that the "Notre Dame Club of Korea" Is an ever growing organization. DON McKENZIE is still with the Militar\' Armistice Commission. For a price, Don will give you a guided tour of llie truce-talk area. TO.M QUINN is Public In­formation officer with the 7th Divbion in Korea. DICK HUETHER Is the Information and Educa­tion Officer with the 32nd Infantry* Regiment. Tliis is over Korea way also. Seen in the Seoul Snack Bar was DA\^E COHEN who Is In charge of Troop Information and Education with the IBlst Signal Company. What Is it with all of this information and education? Could it be that Intelligence Is becoming important In the Armed Forces? MIKE MOYER is doing cloak and dagger work with the CID in Tokyo. I'll bet that they even Jet him wear a trench coat. 
PAUL M/VNSFIELD Is now at Monterey, Cali­foniia, and will be there until July 1st. He en­listed In tile Army In September of 1956 and took basic training at Fort Dix. He is presently at the Army Language School, Presidio of Monterey. I received a card from ED PREIN the other day and he brought nic up to date on his activities. Ed tcMik a teaching fellowship at Michigan State University and completed his ^LS. in Structural Engineering in June of '56. Since then he has been working for an arcliitcct in Grand Rapids. He lias also been teaching evenings at the M.S.U. Extension there. WAYNE KENT and his partner were recent winners of the 7th annual Moot Court Competition of the Notre Dame Law School. Con­gratulations, Wayne! I received a Coca-Cola soaked dispatcli from Jacques Bar and Restaurant in Chicago. The signature at the bottom was none other than the renowned gourmet, EMMET ROOT. Emmet is still at Scott Air Force Base, Illinois, and seems to be recovering sufficiently from his pressing duties there. He mentions that he passed tlirough Kansas City about 2:00 a.m. the morning of Januarv' 1st but didn't think that I would be In the mooo for a phor.e call. For shame, Emmet, I 
was just watching, the latc-Iatc show -and would . have been very pleased to chat with you. Why should that morning be different from any others? Be surs to call the next time. After losing track of BOB KUNZE for quite some time, I received a 
• very welcome letter from litm the other day. Bob finlslied school at Fort Monmouth In December and is now at Woodbridge, Virginia. His complete ad­dress h PFC Robert Kulize US-51373115 D/A Transmuting Station, Dct. I 9423d TSU ACACA, Woodbridge, Virginia. Bob will be at his present duty station until sometime in April and should then receive orders for South America. He became engaged to Miss Rita Scnger last October but he's not quit*^ sure of a definite date for the wedding. Congratulations, Bob, and be sure to keep me posted on all of the particular. DICK NORTON is at Fort Monmouth with Signal Corps Intelligence. E.MMET C/VSSIDY was also at Monmouth but has now moved to Aberdeen, Mar\'land, for further training. GEORGE ROONEY was married on February- 16th to the former Miss Carolyn Wagner. Congratulations and best wishes to them both. DON DUFFY, BUTCH VALL/\CE and DON ROBIN­SON were planning to attend the wedding so I imagine that George got quite a send off. The shoe will be on the other foot In June as Don Robinson himself will marry Miss Leonore Salkind of New Jersey . 
DAVE METZ was again punctual as ever with his letters and he Is certainly one among niatiy who has been a consistent correspondent. Dave is aboard the U.S.S. Hornet (CVA-I2), which has been operating In the Far East. Ills tetter was quite entertaining as he related his shore liberty experiences In Japan. I didn't realize that those Japanese libraries were as complete as you say they are, Dave. Did you enjoy your sightseeing tours of those oriental -.brines? Dave's biggest news Item is oiie entirely personal. He Is engaged to Miss Sandra Quiiin from St. Paul. Minn., and they plan to be married In September. Congratula­tions, Dave, and I'm sure it was those interesting sea stories that finally won her over. I hope that you didn't tell her that you t>wn the Hornet. What a salesman! Dave mentions-that he ran Into JACK PINTER and BILL KREPPS In the officers' club in Yokosuka but didn't get a chance to talk with thcni at length. If he had, I'm sure that he would have dIsco\"ered that the collateral duty thing in the Navy Is pretty much "standard operating procedure." Dave is a Division Officer, Insurance Officer, AVelfarc Officer, Recreation Officer, Train­ing" Officer, and lias charge of Voting Officer Billets. In his spare time he manages to pursue his primary' duty of assistant air Intelligence officer on an admlial's staff. The remaining twenty hours 
Future belles of St. Mary's and men of Notre Dame are these chidren of John C. Clynes, *49. Left to right: Leonore, 4; Maureen, 3; John Jr., 2; and Patrick, 6 months. The Clj-nes 
family resides at 127 Duckpond Dr., No., Wantagh, L. L, N. Y. 
1957 
cvcr>' day arc spent on rest and relaxation. Wrilc 
soon again, Dave, and keep mc posted on your 
Na\*al capers. 
I'm just about down to the bottom of the mail 
bag but I don't want to overlook a very newsy letter 
from JOHN RYAN. John is in Med school at 
Loyola University in Chicago and says that final 
exams arc approaching. His most important final 
will take place next December 28th when he and 
Miss Rcncc Jelinck will be married in Oak Park. 
They have beer engaged since Christmas. Muclio 
congratulations and best wishes to them both. The 
news to follow is from John's letter. TOM HAYES 
and the former Miss Carole Lindsay were married 
in Oak Park on February 2nd. Seen sampling the 
champagne and goodies were the following: CHAR­
LEY CADWELL and RICH McDONALD who 
arc both attending Georgetown Law School; BILL 
REALE who b working in Mansfield, Ohio, with 
the Tappan Stove Co.; and DiVNNY MOORE 
whose activities arc unknown at this time. Drop 
mc a line, Dan, and bring mc up to date. Rumor 
has it that JERRY BRANSFIELD plans to attend 
law school when he is released from the Navy in 
June. FRED WHITFIELD is stationed in Wash­
ington, p . C , with the Nax-y. DAVE DISCHER 
is married and attending Medical school at the 
University ol Illinois. ERNIE MAHER is attend­
ing Medical school at Georgetown University. 
JOHN CONNAUGHTON is in the Marines but 
his whereabouts arc unknown. John R>-an's letter 
abo contains a request to hear from people like 
JOHN JAHODA. BILL 0*TOOLE, TOM DOR­
WIN, TOM HARTZELL, etc. I second the mo­
tion, John, and I might add that the etc. above 
includes cver>- member o! the class of '55 who has 
never written. TIM SHErV is still at Northwestern 
Law School but I haven't heard from him in some 
time. JIM W^ELTZIEN xvas married last fall to 
the former Miss Mar>' Ann Spencer. The marriage 
took place in Crystal Lake, 111. Jim is in the 
Na\-y serving at CIcnview Naval Air Station. DON 
SANTSCHI, JERE FREIDHEIM, DON GAL­
L.VGHER, AMEEL IU\SCHID, WARREN GID­
DENS, and BILL WAHL are all attending Med 
school at Loyola. Amecl was recently elected 
House Manager at Phi Chi Fraternity and would 
like to take this opportunity to welcome any trav­
elers to drcp by anytime, whether he be seeking 
a sack, companionship, food or whatever. Also, 
because of the crisis in the Middle East, he would 
welcome contributions to the drinking fund for 
polydipsic Arab camels. Address: (for sake of trav­
elers) 716 S. /Vshland Ave, Chicago, 111. Phone SK 3-9701. (The above is quoted verbatim from a recent broadcast of Radio Free Europe.) Thanks to John Ryan for his letter and he asks that I pass on his new address. It is as follows: 1127 Fair Oaks, Oak Park. 111. 
HUGO HARDT was working in New York after graduation until he entered Officers' Candidate Scliool at New Port last November. He has had training at Jacksonville, Norfolk, and is now at Oceana, Virginia. His address is Ens. Hugo Hardt, VF82, Naval Air Station, Oceana, Virgi nia Beach, Va. 
CHARLES J. GULDE b the engineering officer on board the U.S.S. Spanglcr. The ship, a destroyer escort, is based in San Diego. 
JACK GIBBONS received an outstanding citation from the War Department and a bonus check for his work as a research ph\'sicist. 
Lt. JOHN J. CONNAUGHTON is currently sta­tioned at Camp Pendleton, Calif. 
Well, honorable gentlemen, that just about docs it for this time. The next column should be much longer, shouldn't it? Well, take pen in hand and .. . for the sake of self preservation, I won't risk repetition agaii.. Just remember the words that a wandering gy-psy once whispered into my ear, "People who live in gall bladders shouldn't throw stones." . . . Peace! 
1956 ^'"" ^* "^*" 
No. 2 Dromara Road Ladue 24, Missouri (Editor's Note: AL VITT is now attending Offi­cers Candidate School in Newport, R. I., and will be graduated in June. According to information received from his father, Al plans to be married in July to Miss Janet Wd}cr.) BILL WARREN was married on February 8 to Miss Judith Ann Johnston of Gladstone, Mich. The ceremony took place in Mar>% Star of the Sea Catholic Churcli ac Lajnllo, Calif. Bill is now an ensign in the U. S. Navy. Bill's latest address was Company. "N, " Naval Supply Corps, Athens, Georgia. His wife Judith has been teaching in the Lajolla school system. 
From DAVE AUSTGEN: Living out in the Los Angeles region and working for Northrop Aircraft are: JOHN NUTANT, MARTY KENAHAN, AL SZEWCZYK and myself. Al is planning to enter N.D.'s graduate scliool next fail and get his master's in mcclianical engi­neering. In all probability, I will enter flight training this spring at Lackland AFB. John and Marty are both working on their master's degrees at Southern Cal. AL BUSTAMANT is living in Santa Monica and working for Douglas Aircraft. WALT GILL is also out here, working for Hughes Aircraft. DICK PRATHER visited us out here while he was working on the flight test program for the Crusader. He is employed by Chance Vought /Vircmft in Dallas. SCOTTY LEWIS is enjoying Na\-y Flight Training in Florida and said he was to be married on February 23. DON* CVRLIN is attending law school at the University of Michigan. JOHN CLIFFOFRD is studying for a master's dcgrc= al Iowa State and TOM BOTT is also attending Iowa State. PETE C/\NNON and PAT POYNTON arc both at Notre Dame taking graduate work in aeronautical engineering. JI.M HESBUKGH and AL PESTRICHELL.\ arc in the Air Force and stationed at Scott Base, Rantoul, 
III. JACK FITZSIMONS is in the Army and the last I heard of him he was stationed on the West Coast in Washington. He planned to go overseas soon. ^fy present address is 125 I3tli Street, Manhattan Beach, Calif. 
JOHN CUPPER was married on November 26 and is now stationed at Boinbridgc, Md. He planned to attend a Navy school beginning in the latter part of March. 
From JIM "SPIKE" DALY: I saw BILL WEI­MAX and JOHN FANNON recently—they arc both second lieutenant? and playing basketball for the Quantico Marines team. I am a second lieu­tenant here at Ft. Monmouth and am kept busy as a mess officer, Army emergency relief officer and division property officer. I'm also coaching the base track team. I was married last September. My address Is 6 McKee Street, Floral Park, N. Y. 
LEL/VND A. CROGH/VN, of Dcadwood, South Dakota, played a featured role in George Bernard Shaw's "Caesar and Cleopatra," staged this month by the Yale School of Drama. He is a first-year student at the Drama School. 
T. E. KENNELL is a new member of the Devel­opment Department of the Carbide and Carbon plant. South Charleston, W. Va. 
From BOB DUNEGAN: 
Just a quickie from southern Indiana. Since I can fill in a few items, I've decided that it's time to report. 
Until recently there was quite an outpost here in Columbus, Ind., all gainfully employed by Cummins Engine Company making dicsel engines. At this time, however, the military has taken its toll. 
TOM and LETTIE WAGEXL\N left us last fall when Tom entered the military. JOHN CURRY, who was married in October, is now in basic training in Colorado. MIKE HOGAN, who at last report still remained a baclielor, entered the Army shorily after Christmas, while PAT SN'YDER barely paid his respects before being whisked off to the Marines. 
That leaves but me—from 8 to 5 an Application Engineer, thoroughly enjoying It, but fondly re­membering the good old days of khaki wash pants. The Sack, and Tommy Dec the Dinner Winner. I may follow the gang to NVvport soon. 
But a bit more—TOM SWOPE is really pushing in Pcnn Law School. JOHN STETTLER is, he claims, loafing at M.I.T. Then there was the reunion that attended Eos. BILL BRENNAN'S marriage to Barb Schettig over the holidays in­cluding BOB MULDOON, WALT McNAMARA, and WALT PEENEY. Needless to say, a good time was had by all. Barb and Bill are living in Athens, Georgia, (isn't everybody?) where Bill is attending Supply School. 
Safaricd north for Homecoming where the first face I encountered was JOHN ADAMS, still wear­ing that evcrpresent top-coat with the raglan sleeves, and still proclaiming the merit of the art­work in last year's "Scholastic." John is, I be­lieve, with General El«-ctric (If he is not, this may produce some literary retaliation.) 
Tlic addrcsi of ENS. JOHN \V. CORBETT, USXR, is Na\Y 3002, Box No. 7, c/o FPO, San Francisco. Calif. 
EUGENE MARTELL will join the University 
of Toledo football stafT as assistant line coach in , September, 1957. Currently Gene is directing .Toledo's intramural program and teaching at Toledo 
Whitmer High School fulfilling requirements for a master's degree. 
VERNE F. KELLEY, '50 

Verne F. Kellcy, '50, has been named advertising manager for the Greyhound Corporation. With headquarters in Chicago, he will supervise advertising and public relations for the company's bus operation, rent-car division and Grey Van moving line. 
Verne comes to Greyhound from RuthraufT & Ryan Advertising Agency (Chicago office) where he served as TV writer, producer and account ex­ecutive. Among accounts he serviced were: Motorola, Tums and Baldwin pianos and oi^ans. 
Prior to joining the ad agency in 1953, Verne was a sales and merchan­dising executive for Proctor & Gamble and did public relations work for United Air Lines. 
During his undergraduate days in journalism, he was class vice-president, a member of the Student Council and was elected into Who's Who in Amer­ican Colleges and Universities. 
He was in public information wt h the Navy's Submarine. Force, Pacific Fleet, for two years. Verne and his wife, the former Lois Phillips, live at 445 AV. Wellington Ave., Chicago. 
Co-incidental with his appointment is Greyhound's return to network TV. The bus company will sponsor one-third of NBC-TV's Steve Allen Show starting April 7. Greyhound is the nation's largest inter-city carrier of passengers and top transportation advertiser. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-]utu, J957 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Cleveland, O. May 15, 1957 Fellow Alumni: 
If a first-time visitor to Notre Dame stays around long enough to get the feel of the place, one of the big things that strikes him is that the University has no tails wagging the dog. 
Everj'tliing that's good and reasonable has a place in the University's program, but students, faculty and administration tr)' to subordinate eveiything to one clear-cut goal—graduation classes filled with young men well on their way toward becoming fully developed human beings. The spiritual comes first; under that, everj'thing else—academic, social, cultural and athletic—has its place and perspective. 
There's a football stadium, for example, but there's also a Grotto and a Natural Law Institute and— beside the stadium—playing fields for the scores of intramural gridders who get the benefit of competitive football without the benefit of headlines. 
The idea is that a man—or a University—can't overdevelop one phase of his personality without injuring othei-s. To put a name on it, the quality Notre Dame stresses is balance. 
Balance not only in the University's attitude toward studies and recreation, but also in the students' attitudes toward each otlier. As most alumni know well, students at ND don't care much how important you are at home or how much money your father has in the bank. Nor, for that matter, are they overly concerned with your talent or physical strength. Those things are good, and nobody begrudges them. But, for the moment, you're a Notre Dame student just like everybody else, and you get treated pretty much the same as everybody else. You're judged and accepted on your personality and accomplishments here and now. 
One result of this is that the student begins early to learn maturity in judgment and self-confidence in his dealings with other people. To take, in other words, a balanced view of life. 
One aim of the Alumni Association is to cultivate continuation of this balance both in its own program and in the graduate's pei-sonal life. The Association tries to recognize and promote its members' business and professional progress, cultural and social life, physical interest and spiritual life, .<:o they'll remain and grow as "whole men." 
Our emphasis will shift from time to time^from reunions to retreats to club parties to football tickets to reading lists to Communion breakfasts to job-placement problems. But no legitimate interest wll be e.K­cluded, and none will be unreasonably promoted. The idea is to keep them all rolling at once and on an even keel. In a word, balance. 
; Sincerely, 
J. PATRICK CANNY, President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PflESS 





