The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME 
 POWEF 
an inevitable issue takes its turn at NC 
J^  
i(* !^  
^  .  


STUDENT 
NYC, 832 pages, $25. Sheridan P. McCabe, former 
Compendium Fiands Wallace '23, "Notre chairman of psychology Dame From Rockne to Par-dept at U. of Portland, 
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR 
Dec. 16, Christmas vacation 
begins. 
Until Dec 31, Walter R. 
Bcardslcy Collection, East 
Gallery, O'Shaughncssy Hall. 
Until Dec 31, Portraits 
from the permanent collec­
tion. East Gallcr>', O'Shaugh­
ncssy Hall. 
Jan. 3, Classes resume. 
Jan. 4-16, Advance regis­
tration for second semester. 
Until Jan. 7, Drawings from 
the Galcria Arte Mexicano, 
West Caller}-, O'Shaugh­
ncssy Hall. 
Jan. 7-Fcb. 25, Six Cen­
turies of Italian Art, East 
Galler}', O'Shaughncssy Hall. 
Jan. 7-Feb. 25, A History 
of Sculpture from the per­
manent collection. East Gal­
lery, O'Shaughncssy Hall. 
Jan. 13, "Lute Song," by 
National Players of Catholic 
University of America, 
Washington Hall. 
Jan. 13, Academic Council 
meeting, CCE. 
Jan. 14-March 10, Selec­
tions from the permanent 
collection chosen by Dr. 
Julius S. Held, art historian. 
West Galleri', O'Shaugh­
ncssy Hall. 
Jan. 16, Last class day. Jan. 17-24, Final examina­tions. Jan. 18-20, Alumni Board Meetings, CCE. Jan. 25, ND Credit Union annual meeting. North Din­ing Hall. Jan. 26, Mid-Year Com­missioning of ROTC cadets, CCE. Jan. 29-30, Registration of new and continuing students. Jan. 31, Classes resume. Feb. 2, Last day for class changes. March 1-3, 7-9, "Enrico IV," ^fD-St. Mar>''s Theatre, Washington Hall. 
ADVISORY COUNCIL APPOINTMENTS 
Law School, Louis J. Finske, Jacksonville, Fla.; James F. Thornburg, South Bend. College of Science, John G. Best, Elkhart; AVilliam Huisking, NYC. College of Engineering, Ber­nard K. Crawford, Lynd­hurst, NJ; Arthur J. Decio, Elkhart; John W. Scallan, Chicago. 

College of Arts and Letters, US Rep. John Brademas, Washington, DC; Paul E. Foley, NYC; John J. Mc-Hale, NYC; Donald T. McNeill, Chicago; Philip R. North, Fort Worth: Robert 
T. Rolfs, West Bend, Wis.; John A. Schneider, NYC; Jerome W. Van Gorkom, Chicago. College of Business Admin­btration, Kevin J. Brennan, Hartford, Conn.; John J. Bundschuh Sr., NYC; John 
T. Collins, NYC; Edward 
J. DeBartolo, Youngstown, Ohio; Paul D. Gilbert, South Bend; Edmond R. Haggar, Dallas; Karl F. Johnson, Indianapolis; Phillip J. Lucier, St. Louis; Charles F. Miles, Elkhart; Patrick L. O'Malley, Chicago; Frank 
E. Sullivan, South Bend; Robert V. Welch, India­napolis; C. Craig Whitaker, North Kansas City, Mo. 
BOOKS 

Michael J. Crowe '58, asst. prof, in general program, "A History of Vector Anal­ysis, The Evolution of Vector Analysis." UND Press, 320 pages, $12.95. Gordon J. DiRenzo '56, "Personality, Power and Politics," a study of the political personality. UND Press, 272 pages, $7.95. Robert H. Evans, asst. prof, of government, "Coexist­ence: Communism and its Practice in Bologna, 1945­1965." UND Press, 225 pages, $7.95. 
Jack Gouiman '49, the first issue of The Gourman Let­ter, a bi-monthly bulletin supplementing "The Gour­man Report" which rates American colleges and uni­versities. Contains new and changed ratings and cor­rections to the 1189-page volume. The Continuing Education Institute Inc, Phoenix, Ariz. 
William T. Liu MA '52, prof, of sociology, "Family and Fertility," dealing with 
the family system and the procreative behavior of the family—past, present and future UND Press, 400 pages, $9.95. Nicholas Lobkowicz, former assoc. prof, of philosophy, now prof, at U. of Munich, "Theory and Practice, His­tory of a Concept from Aristotle to Marx." UND Press, 432 pages, $8.95. Ralph M. Mclnemy, prof, of philosophy, "Jolly Roger-son," a novel about a mid­dle-aged Midwestern uni­versity professor with a compulsive desire to an­nounce himself a failure and instead becomes an out­rageous success. Doubleday, $4.95. 
Daniel Moore II, "A Proud Tradition/Notre Dame," a booklet of pictorial cover­age of ND football. Moss­berg & Co. Inc., Box 1, Notre Dame, 64 pages, $2.25 
(incl. postage). Paul A. Theb '48, co-ed., "Who's Who in American Politics," biographies of na­tional and state political figures. R. R. Bowker Co. 
seghian," an updated version of the football history. David McKay Co. Inc NYC, 303 pages, $5.95. 
CENTER FOR 
CONTINUING 
EDUCATION 
Dec 11-12, Law and High­way Beautification Sym­posium, sponsored by busi­ness management dept. Dec 14-15, Seminar on Life Sciences and the Church. Dec 18, Standard Oil Sales Conference. Jan. 5-6, Field Enterprises Educational Corp. Confer­ence. Jan. 14-17, Food Research Center Conference. Jan. 21, Indiana Clinical Conference (osteopaths). Jan. 26, Conference of Cath­olic Colleges and University Students, sponsored by ND Academic Commission. 

FACULTY AND STAFF 
Leo M. Corbaci, asst vice pres. for academic affairs and registrar, elected pres. of the Ind. Assoc, of Col­legiate Registrars and Ad­missions Officers for 1968­69. John Kennedy, ch. of dept of marketing, appointed to National Board of Advisors of National Contract Man­agement Assoc. Robert E. Gordon, prof, of biology and assoc dean of the College of Science, or­ganized and moderated a symposiiun on the biology of salamanders at Ohio State 
U. in October. Joseph A. Tihen, assoc. prof, of biology, delivered a paper on the fossil history of salamanders at the annual meeting of the Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles. 
Morris Pollard, head of the dept. of microbiology, pre­sented a speech at the Southwestern Assoc, of Can­cer Research meeting in October. Milton Burton, director of the Radiation Laboratory, appointed to the Indiana Academy of Science Com­mittee on Science and Society and also AEC's Advisory Committee on Isotopes and Radiation De­velopment. 
K. P. Funabashi, assoc. fac­ulty fellow, presented a paper at the 8th Japan Con­ference on Radioisotopes in Tokyo in November. Co­authors of this paper are Milton Burton, director of the Radiation Lab., and Dr. Guenter Lang, postdoctoral research assoc in the Radia­tion Lab. 
named head of new Counsel­ing Center at ND. Raymond C. Gutschick, prof, of geology, presented a paper at International Symposium on the Devonian System in September in Calgary, Canada. Rev. Joseph B. Simons CSC, former dean of stu­dents, named to staff of the new Counseling Center. James W. Silver, prof, of history, appointed to South Bend Human Relations and Fair Employment Practices Commission. 
Ralph E. Thorson, prof, of biology, presented a seminar for Centennial Year Celebra­tion at the U. of Illinois in October. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of Center for Continuing Ed­ucation, named trustee of the Foundation for Eco­nomic and Business Studies, Indianapolis. Peter P. Grande, assoc. prof, of education, appointed Director of Academic In­stitutional Studies. 
GRANTS 
Accountancy, $3,000 for faculty development from Price Waterhousc Founda­tion in NYC. $1,000 will be given to Robert W. William­son, asst. prof., to assist his doctoral studies at the U. of Chicago Graduate School of Business. 
Aerospace Engineering, Dr. Thomas J. Mueller, $19,940 from the AF Systems Com­mand for study of "turbulent base pressure in supersonic axisymmetric flow." Biology, Dr. Robert P. Mc­intosh, $32,600 from NSF for ecological study. Biology, Dr. George B. Craig, $89,105 from NIH for research on the genetics and reproduction of the Aedes mosquito. Center For Study of Man, Dr. George N. Shustcr, $5,­800 from Mrs. Lucy B. Lemann for Peace Organi­zation. 
Chemical Engineering. Dr. Julius T. Banchero, $5,400 from American Oil Founda­tion for engineering design fellowship. Chemistry, Dr. G. Frank D'Alelio, $15,000 from NASA for research in poly­mer chemistry. Chemistry, Dr. Milton Bur­
ton, $30,000 from the AEC for the study of effects of 
radiation on matter. 
Chemistry, Dr. Jeremiah P. Freeman, $23,614 from NIH for the "chemistry of 1, 4­dihydrozypyrazoles." 
ChemistiV, Dr. Ernest L. Eliel, $21,792 from NIH for "synthesis and confor­mation in heterocyclic chem­
istry." 

Chembtry, Dr. Marino Martinez-Carrion, $28,925 from NIH for study of "isozymes of heart glutamate aspartate transaminase." Chemistry, Dr. Robert G. Hayes, $27,000 for studies of transition metal com­plexes. 
Chemistry, Rev. Joseph L. Walter CSC, $12,138 from NIH for study of "spectra of amino acids and protein metal complexes." Civil Engineering, $1,873 from NSF for graduate fellowships. 
Civil Engineering, Dr. Keith A. Yarborough, $21,625 from the Dept. of Interior for a program of residencies in engineering practice. Civil Engineering, Dr. Mark 
VV. Tcnncy, $810 from AID for sanitary engineering training for a Brazilian trainee. 
Electrical Engineering, Dr. James L. Massey, $25,000 from NAS.\ for "convolu­tional coding techniques for data production." College of Engineering, $5,­000 from the American Society for Engineering Ed­ucation for a research fel­lowship. 
Engineering Science, Dr. Raymond M. Brach, $15,­245 from the Army Research Office for study of "optimum design of linear elastic beams and dynamic loading." English, $500 from the Na­tional Endowment for the Humanities as an institu­tional allowance for a Na­tional Endowment fellow­ship. 
English, Dr. Thomas M. Lorch, $9,500 from the Rockefeller Foundation to evaluate the University's freshman introduction to the humanities seminar. History, Dr. Samuel Shapiro, $4,725 from the US Office of Education as a supple­mental stipend award for an institute in advanced study in history. 
Mechanical Engineering, 
$1,500 from the Rudy Mfg. Co., Dowagiac, Mich. Metallurgical Engineering, Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore, $13,­400 from the US Army Ballistics Research Labs for study of the "dislocation substructure of deformed materials." 
Microbiology, Dr. Albert A. Nordin, $15,370 from NIH for research into "cellular aspects of the mechanisma in AB synthesis." Microbiology, Dr. Morris 
Pollard, $16,000 from the Leukemia Society Inc. for research fellowship in micro­biology. 
Microbiology, Dr. Morris Pollard, $500 from Carroll County (Ind.) Cancer As­soc, for research equipment for Lobund Lab. Microbiology, Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC, $50,785 from the PHS for radiation pro­tection and recovery in germfree animals, and $34,­115 from the NIH for germ-free investigation of mam­malian thymus. Physics, Dr. Edward A. Coomes, $24,000 from the Office of Naval Research for "fundamental materials re­
search on emitting ma­terials." Radiation Laboratiwy, Dr. Milton Burton, $40,000 from AEC for research on effects of radiation on matter. Radiation Lak, $60,000 from the USAE Commis­sion for study of the effects of radiation on matter. Sociology, Drs. Julian Sa­mora and William D'An­tonio, $149,712 from Ford Fndtn. for population pro­gram in Mexico and Cen­tral America. 
Sociology, Social Sdence Training Lab., Dr. William Liu, $23,150 from NIMH for graduate training in so­cial research. Sociology, Drs. John R. Maiolo and John P. Koval, $2,000 from The S & H Foundation for a series of lectures. 
Sociolm^, Dr. William T. Liu, $181,994 from AID for study of family and re­productive behavior in the Philippines. 
University, $60,000 from US Office of Education to con­duct a summer training in­stitute in Innsbruck, Aus­tria, for teachers in over­seas schools for children of American servicemen and civilian personnel. 
Univeraty, $5,000 from Sears, Roebuck and Co. Foundation. 
University, $1,001 under Aetna Ufe & Casual^s matching and incentive grant program. University, $4,800 from Eastman Kodak Company. 
SPORTS 
Dec 11, Basketball, ND vs 
S. Methodist Dec 14, Basketball, ND vs St. Norbert Dec 15, Wrestling, ND vs Purdue at Lafayette Dec 19, Basketball, ND vs Indiana at Ft. Wayne Dec 21, BaskediaU, ND vs Utah State at Logan Dec 23, Basketball, ND vs UCLA at LA Dec 28, BasketbaU, ND vs Villa Madonna Col. Dec 30, Basketball, ND vs Kentucky at Louisville Jan. 3, Basketball, ND vs King's Col. of Pa. Jan. 6, Basketball, ND vs AF Academy at Denver Jan. 8, Basketball, ND vs Creighton at Omaha Jan. 10, Basketball, ND vs Detroit 
Jan. 13, Basketball, ND vs DePaul at Chicago; Swim­ming, Ohio U and Ball State at ND Jan. 17, Basketball, ND vs Butler Jan. 27, Basketball, ND vs Illinois at Chicago Stadium; ND vs Western Ontario at London, Ontario Jan. 29, Swimming, ND vs Wayne State at Detroit Jan. 30, Basketball, ND vs Michigan State at East Lan­sing 
Feb. 3, Basketball, ND vs Detroit at Detroit; Wres­tling, ND vs John Carroll; Swimming, St. Bonaventure at ND 
Feb. 6, Basketball, ND vs DcPaul; Wrestlmg, ND vs Wabash at Crawfordsville 

Change of Governance Launch of SUMMA Drive 
19S7 had sotnething for everyone and 
certainly some of "the best of times." A review shows that the University in its 125th year had much going on — foremost was the change in University control to a board of trustees which included laymen as well as Holy Cross Priests. Vice-President Hubert Humphrey led a stream of famous visitors to the Campus. Next there was the dedication of the new Post Office, the first meeting of the Alumni Senate, the first Festival of Contemporary Arts, the National Science Foundation grant of nearly $5 million, the launching of the parafoil, the formation of a Student Union, jolly Class Re­unions tinged with regret as Jim Armstrong '25 retired as Alumni Secretary and, finally, SUMMA, challenging ND's friends to raise $52 million in five years. There were other moments, too, and Dickens surely would have listed among "the worst of times" one of the biggest football ticket scrambles 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
Presence of National Hgures Test of Parofbil 
in Ustory. There was the posability of a second state medical school being located on Campus but hopes have dimmed on that issue. Back on the plus side the Fighting Irish, though suffering two early season defeats, came back to win six straight games and wound up high in the top ten for the fourth consecutive season. Notre Dame expanded its Sophomore-Year-Abroad program to include Japan, announced plans for new dormitories, an addition to the power plant, a new faculty club and a new center to house the graduate school and continued work on the building to house a more power­ful atom smasher. More than others in recent history, it was a year national media focused on the Campus, with a feature in Harper's, ND appearance on the collegiate quiz program, nationally televised entertainment and stories and advertise­ments in magazines and newspapers around the country telling of SUMMA and the 125th anniversary, of Notre Dame. 

Alumni Ash 
ABOtrr CONDUCT AT GAMES Got a little bit disturbed at the open­ing of the third quarter when the high-school boys trotted on the field and formed a tunnel in company of silly girls. And wondered what the vocal voices of the assemblage were thinking when they repeated yelling in thunder­ing accord while Southern California was attempting to call signals. Also a sign that went up at the Iowa game reading "BULL SH*T" . . . hardly University caliber. Also thought: when does a stop come to the goofy music being displayed about the Campus with the long-haired goofs and silly girls making a noise that can be heard all over the Campus? Es­pecially at Sorin Hall so close to Sacred Heart Church and services are being celebrated. We should foster SUMALA to foster the likes of this? Yet there are some rewarding factors in reaching the Campus a little after 10 o'clock and walking around and no­ticing the changes and the improve­ments — especially the boiler room where a million dollars is being spent for the pickup of light and power and heat for the new facilities. Or occasion­ally talking with a priest and learning a little more of some of the better things to come. Or being rewarded with the sight of a new hole in the ground which will bring forth another building. JOHN NORTON '23 Evanston, 111. 
ABOUT SHOW BUSINESS The "Beat Generation" has found a new home. Step aside, Berkeley — ND has become a launching pad for kooks. First we witness the spectacle of an oversexed priest. Father Kavanaugh, to use his appearance at an ND stu­dent body function to sell his book and start his new religion featuring mar­ried priests. This left the mistaken, im­pression among most people that an ND priest was involved and that ND sanctioned his sacrilegious behavior. To cap it all was the much-publi­cized extravaganza, "John Davidson at Notre Dame." Everyone I know was horrified at this performance, except for the brief appearance of the ND Glee Club. How could anything so shameful ever originate at ND? Why should the good name of ND be used as a promo­tional stunt to launch a few unknown, untalented kooks into show business? Is this the portrait of ND today? Heaven forbid! I can remember the motto "God, Country, Notre Dame" during my days at ND. Somehow or other, "God" and "Country" seem to have become dis­associated from the motto. WILLIAM H. RICKE '39 Maitland, Fla. 
Ed. Note: See pp. 5 and 8 for further comment on Fr. Kavanaugh and, for "outsiders" views of Davidson Show, see p. 64. 
After listening last night (Oct 27) to 
what I had been expecting as a presen­
tation of some aspect of ND life, I 
would propose to the liturgy experts on 
Campus that in the Litany of the Saints 
(Campus use only) the phrase: "From 
the hucksters, O Lord, deliver us" be 
inserted, probably between the phrases 
"From the scourge of earthquakes" and 
"From plague, famine and war." 
VINCENT DECOURSEY '39 Prairie Village, Kan. 
ABOUT STADIUM SEATING I would think that with the ever-increasing number of living Alumni and the constant improvements in trans­portation, that an expansion of the stadium would be a good investment. A 60,000-seat stadium was too large in 1930 and 80,000 may be too large now 
— but not in the future when costs will be greater. Therefore, build it now for $6 million. I do not think the school should worry seriously about diluting academic excellence. We are still build­ing a lot more classrooms, and this is just another expansion by the Univer­sity to meet its current and future needs. 
RAYMOND RAEDY JR. '62 Washmgton, DC 
I think the University must face up to the stadium seating situation at an early date or stand to lose many of the benefits that have accrued to it over the years as a result of a pretty e£Scient system worked out by the Alumni Of­fice and the Athletic Dept. It has to be the finest, long-range, continuous PR program that has ever come out of the University. 
I am sure some people feel the whole athletic program should be de-empha­sized, that we should get out of the football rat race and get on with the job of building the greater ND. The well-heeled Ivy League schools made the move some years ago, but I serious­ly doubt that ND is, at this stage of its development, in a position to take this step. We cannot continue the present unbearable situation without alienating many people and it seems to me the only alternative is to provide the addi­tional seating capacity in the stadium at the earliest possible date. 
Then, there is the matter of some $6,000,000 in costs. I am not an expert in fund raising or in the area of fi­nancing such projects. I woiUd assume, however, that this would be classified as an income-producing project and that it would pay for itself over a period of years out of the additional gross re­ceipts. On the other hand, if the above siun or any part of it has to be funded before the project gets started, I am confident that any program for funds would have the general support of Alumni and friends. 
I feel a firm decision should be reached, well in advance of the 1968 season, so all will know in which direc­tion we plan to move. 
BILL McCULLOUGH '27 South Bend 
ABOUT TRIBUTE TO WITHEY I was deeply saddened to read of the death of Prof. James Withey. Although I was not a journalism major and never had Mr. Withey in class, I, like many others, frequently sought his guidance while living in Walsh Hall. He was one of those extraordinarily gifted men and genuine teachers who taught his students not only how to write and think straight, but how, under the incredibly repressive rules and mores of pre-1960 ND, to grow up. Like all the best professors at ND, his devotion to the University was matched by his criticism of it—demonstrating, I think, that to care is in part to be critical and to see that natters are always improving. If this letter is longer than the no­tice of his death you had in your last issue, it is because I think Professor Withey deserves more attention than the space you were able to give him. KENNETH L. WOODWARD '57 New York City 
ABOUT 'CHANGE' SEMINAR 
The Alumni who were submitted to a seminar on change in the Church at the hands of a quintet of "new theolo­gians" suffered, we hope, nothing worse than utter confusion. The only other alternative would be utter apostasy and despair. The quintet succeeded in con­vincing them at least that change has run away with ND. Hallowed and loved as the University is in their life con­ceptualization, this is as catastrophic as an affirmation that change has run away with the Church. A century or two of patient exposition of truth resulting in repentance could repair most of the damage the bad thinking these five emerging mystical prophets have spewed 
at a segment of the captive laity. . . . 
They seem to misrepresent totally the historical content of Christianity in the light of their new relativism and coun­terfeit love thesis. They generalize all the hates of history in their slogans of love. . . . 
The altar boys of today who so "for­timately" do not get pencils marked, "I am a Catholic, an honorable name," and are thus bereft of triumphalism are not rushing to seminaries and novitiates to give themselves to God and the Church as did the boys of the elder pre-new theology day did. With tri­wnphalism out, even secular ND's vocation output looks a bit thin and shabby. And when the totally spiritual . religion that Buddhists had 1000 years before Christ is rated above the insti­tutional Church founded by Christ on men and for men, then nothing else of Christ remains. . . . 
ARTHUR L. CONRAD '35 Chicago 
ABOUT VIETNAM WAR 
Does the University and its officialdom know there's a war going on? Do they have any thoughts on the matter? Or are we most concerned with the grid­iron wars and the escalating box office? VINCE MURPHY '37 Evanston, 111. 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 

In This Is9ue The ALUMNUS has been aiming 
toward giving the student body more coverage. With this issue, we've hit the target. Students rate the cover, the lead story and a special feature. Not by accident, this is the issue which will go to all seniors as their introduction to membership in the ND Alumni Association. The special feature, pp. 30-39, is an attempt to identify and explain the local "student power" issues. To tell the story, it was only natural to ask students. Senior Jay Schwartz is one of the most talented Campus writers and his columns in the student newspaper sparkle with wit and sarcasm. Washington, DC is his home town and his future plans call for enrolling in graduate work in American studies. His article tells the tale of the apathetic student. Tom McKenna writes what the activist students are thinking. (One of the surprising revelations of this feature is that ND's extremists would be only moderates or even conservatives on other campuses.) A senior from Madison, Ind., Tom hopes to go to graduate school if he gets a fellowship and will settle for high school teaching other­wise. He is vice-president of the student body and is a prominent spokesman for the Action Student Party. Mike McCauIey '69 makes his second appearance in TB E ALUMNUS with his essay from the point of view of a moderate. The Student Government PR co­ordinator, Mike is from Des Moines. Ken Beime '68 emerges as the spokesman for the antistudent power group or those who endorse the status quo. Ken is from Carle Place, NY and b now living in Chicago as he participates in the Collegiate Scholar program. To put the students' views in historical perspective — not to dilute what they have to say, but rather to help the readers understand them — Prof. Frank O'Malley of the English department was also 
asked to submit an article. Since his first association with the ND student body — as a freshman in 1928 — he has been a keen observer of the changing and changeless University. 
BEtRNE 

McKENNA  Some old editorial assistants may try, but they can't  
hide forever from a demanding editor — not even  
behind cases and cases of Coke. At least that's the  
case of P. Michael Bascle '66, former ALUMNUS staff  
member who contributed the personal portrait of the  
1967 Sorin Award winner on page 14. Soon after  
it was revealed that Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan  
was to be the recipient, Bascle was summoned back  
to his typewriter as a guest reporter. It was a pleasant  
diversion from his duties in the marketing division  
of Coca-Cola Co. which, like the Archbishop, head­ 
quarters in Atlanta. Bascle found Hallinan "a hard  
man to write about. I found it very difficult to  
convey in words the uniqueness I found through  
personal contact. So, for good or for bad, I let his  
own words do most of the description. I tried to  
follow the single thread of his commitment. It is  
ever present; it made the man and his ideas all the  
HALUNAN  more exciting." TH E ALUMNUS offers this evidence  
of the personableness of both the subject and the  
writer: Bascle is going to visit the Archbishop again  
this month after he returns from Rome.  
J. Richard Lamere '49, author of the article on Carl  
Yastrzemski on pages 16-17, is a prize-winning journalist and  
has been on the editorial staff of the Boston Herald Traveler  
since graduation. Besides covering such news stories as the  
Brink's robbery, the sinking of the liner Andrea Doria and  
the inmate riots at the old Charlestown prison, Lamere's  
assignments have taken him to Europe on several occasions.  
He has won several honors including the Sevellon Brown  
award, top AP honor for public and meritorious service.  
He has also been honored by UPI, the Newspaper Guild,  
AFL-CIO and other organizations. Twice he has been  
nominated for Pulitzer Prizes. He is commanding officer of  
LAMERE  the largest Naval Reserve officers school in New England  
and makes his home in Canton, Mass. with his wife and  
YASTRZEMSKI  four children.  

W7 NOTRE DAME AlUMNUS, University of Noire Dome, The tvlotre Dame ALUMNUS is published bimonthly by the oil rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part University of Notre Dome. Second-class postage paid at without written permission is prohibited. Notre Dame, I N 46SS6. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 



Editorials 
The Cemummmieatiom Chasm 
I am sure this deep thought has an Aristotelian root somewhere. It has managed to escape me, however, along with my $10 copy of the complete Works. So, sans philosojphical course material, here goes. 
It seems apropos that one must know the object of one's attention before it becomes the object of one's affection (or disaffection). A converse principle, "ig­norance is the father of fear," might be even more germane. For the contention in this comer is that most of the folderol about today's collegiate generation, its activist tendencies, its purported defiance of the "estab­lishment" and other forms of authority, its "cool" attitude toward traditional norms and codes .. . is not really folderol at all, but fear . . . fear of fairly epi­demic proportions. And the megaton of newsprint, pulp essays and TV specials seem to have blurred rather than crystallized the issue. In fact, our information about this generation, and therefore our comprehension of it, have been largely supplied by the copy-conscious media. 
There's the thought here that a more appropriate label for the so-called "generation gap" might be the "communication chasm." Any complete communication system consists of both broadcast and reception facilities. It's a two-way system. Multiple accounts of the Berkeley uproars, given a two-year perspective, have distilled cau­sality down to "lack of communi­cation." 
Call it ^ve and take, dialogue, 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

or discussion, it's just not what's happening today inter­
generation. And this may well be one of the profound 
tragedies of our time. For there is much to learn from 
this generation . . . and there is much to be taught. 
The onus may be mutual. But age, accomplishment, 
experience (and. "the establishment") place it more 
heavily on our shoulders. No doubt multiple demands on 
our time and attention have caused us to tune out the 
"turned on" generation. This issue of the ALUMNUS is 
a serious effort to tune back in. The student view in 
purposefully divergent aspects is presented here in an 
attempt to strike up a conversation. It's hoped the con­
versation will continue beyond future pages of future 
issues, developing into a mutually fruitful dialogue 
through the Alumni Board, the Alumni Senate, and 
through the Alumni Clubs across the country. 
The story is told of a father who, viewing himself remiss in his relationship with his son, shelved plans for his own around-the-world summer tour in order to spend more time doing things together and getting to know his boy. At summer's end, an acquaintance asked him how it worked out. The father's response was, "Al, I spent the whole summer with him. We swam, boated and fished together. We visited the Catskills, Coney Island and Yankee Stadium. In short, our every waking hour was spent together. I really got acquainted with my son. And, you know what? I don't like the dam kid!" 
There's no analogy really intended here other than the obvious emphasis on initiative, and the sincere be­lief that the encounter \vill lead to mutual respect if not admiration, understanding if not endorsement, and a much greater Notre Dame. 
James D. Cooney '59 Alumni Secretary 
Ciearimg the Ctauda 
When the controversial priest-author, James Kavanaugh, addressed a student-faculty group on Campus in Octo­ber, a stonn of criticism thundered down upon Notre Dame. The University, as far as untold numbers of irate Catholic observers were concerned, had given a platform to one of the Church's severest critics. What's more, in those same eyes, the Caunpus provided the set­ting £«- Kavanaugfa's rejection of the priestbood. And as timugfaitliat weren't enough, the publisher 3 of Fathier Kavanaiigh's hestsdleiia^^ 
Modeni Priest Looks at HUrOut-^ datied Church, used the' N ^ Dame efSsodcto promote thie jbodc in a half-page advertisemeht m tlw October 24 Nea;yoi*Tim«Jvfcli!| 
Some of the University's ciitiis were incensed that Kavaniaug^ was even ih^ted to the Campiiiti b^ Notarie Dame studoits witii th^ por-" 

mission of the University. Odiers were enraged Ixpauae the Univerdty, as a great £ree Catholic institutiw^ac^ cording to the book publisher's ad, was bdng 'Hiscd'^ tiqi further Kavanaugh's boc^ .The Administrati(m,Vialiii<!(l vnth the latter point of view, was concerned: enoij^h that it took out comparable space in The Times to:re­fute any implied official support of Father Kavanaugh. (Seepages.) ^^ 
But this was not the first time such a controversial figure has appeared on Campus. Other critics of; thie Church, as well as the country, have addressed'mem^ bers of the University. Also, as might be expected, this ' \vas not the first time that Notre Dame has c«ne under fire for permitting same. Let's hope, for the sake .of. realizing a true university ccmmunity, that it won't be the last time. 
A Notre Dame without criticism and dissent—rwith­out a forum for all ideas—would be a dead Notre Dam& It would be a university in name only. The very nature of a university is to search for truth. Where else butj at a university stands greater hope for clearing the^ clouds of confuaon? 
The majority of Catholics, to include most Notre Dame students, rejects the "modem priest's" wholesale condemnation of the Church as they've opposed pther mavericks and critics of the Chiurch and of the country. 
. But whether students endorse or oppose these speakers is another matter. The imjmrtant thing now, in answer •• to critics of the University's speakers policy, is that the students want, need and should be given the opportunity to confront and challenge the Father Kavanaughs of today. 
It's important because-today's students, if one:will forgive the trite phraseology, will be tomorrow's leaders.. Without first understandii^ the world and Chiuch tiiey live in, they'll never be able to participate in it, much less lead it. What will be needed tcHncMTOw.are men: who today are trained to think and to act for them­selves and for others. The world will not be satisfied ivith less. It will continue to seek out improveinen^ often requiring change of the so-called changeless. Hopefully, we'll be there with the awtion. 
JohnP.Tkurin'59[ Editor' 

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19<7 DECEMBER 
November 1967 December Vol. 45 No. 6 




University 
THE GENERATION HERE and NOW Young men demand self-rule. 


MAKINGS OF A STICKY TIME 
"Be it moved that the Student Government Constitution be amended by deleting Article V, Section 4, which reads as follows: No organ of the stu­dent government shall by its actions make any enactment contrary to official University regulations." 
w 
rrH the passage of the above mo­Murphy. O'Dea's running mate, Tom tion this fall, the Student Senate McKenna, was elected to the post of moved wholeheartedly into the realm student body vice-president Although of student rights by making itself an curfews in effect had been abolished autonomous body. This step mi^ t be and the car situation eased, the ASP interpreted as part of "student power," mustered a great deal of support from a term which has as many definitions the upperclassmen. as it has users. It is obviously con­Thirteen ASP senators vote this fall nected, however, with the ability of and the number of sympathizers is students to take part in the decisions even larger than last year. After which affect their lives. amending the constitution, the Senate 
The ND student rights movement moved to abolish the rule of coats and can be traced to the Popular Front ties for dinner in the dining halls. A party of Lenny Joyce in the student resolution was passed calling for the body president race of 1966. Joyce ran administration to either abolish the on a platform of student action to rule or show the Senate good cause abolish curfews and night-check, and that it should not be abolished. If the to establish fewer restrictions on administration did not act, the Senate women's visiting hours and ownership said it would declare the rule null and of cars by students. Though a write-void. in candidate, he made a surprisingly Rev. James Riehle CSC, dean of good showing in his loss to Jim Fish. students, appeared at the next Senate That fall his party, its name changed meeting and told the members the to the Action Student Party, won University had been considering abol­six seats in the senate and many party ishing the rule since the bediming of sympathizers were also elected. the semester and he had already 
The next spring the ASP had recommended such action to Rev. Denny O'Dea as its candidate for Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, pres­student body president. O'Dea, run­ident. When the Senate demonstrated 
ning on a platform consisting solely overwhelmingly that it favored leaving of student rights, made an even enforcement of dress standards for stronger showing but he was edged dinner in the hands of the halls, the out by middle-of-the-roader Chris rule was changed. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER W67 DECEMBER 

While the Senate had been deliber­ating on student rights, the Hall Presidents' Council under Tom Brislin was moving toward the keystone of student rights efforts this year. They asked for hall autonomy by which the members of a residence hall make their o\vh rules on parietal hours, drinking and other matters inde­pendent of University regulation. Each hall submitted a constitution and code, agreed upon by its members, and referendums were held to deter­mine what parietal hours the students wanted. A hall board composed of students was set up to deal •with. infractions. 
In a stormy session the Senate moved to support fully the effort for hall autonomy, passing an "act to provide for the self-government of the residence halls of the University of Notre Dame." SBP Chris Murphy also announced a general assembly of the student body in January to clarify the position of the students on im­portant issues and to demonstrate to the administration the students' views on what he called "the inequities of student life at Notre Dame." 
"As far as the University is con­cerned," Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC, Notre Dame vice-president for student affairs, replied, "the resolu­tions of the Student Senate and Hall Presidents' Council are only recom­mendations." 
He went on to add that the Admin­istration considers such moves as "matters for dialogue." He empha­si7xd, however, that no student group can change University rules and reg­ulations. 
All this is political action. But there 

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER \967 DECEMBER 
is a deeper meaning to "student 
power" than the attempt by students 
to have a voice in the decisions affect­
ing their lives. There are wider issues 
here. 
Robert Welch, Rev. James Kavan­

augh and Mark Hatfield have spoken 
at ND through the initiative of the 
Academic Commission, a student-
organized group. More speeches 
from every part of the political and 
religious spectrum are planned. The 
"Free University" is an attempt to 
get away from the bureaucracy of 
large-scale education; it too is student-
organized. 
Student initiative, student control— 

the list is endless. And the horizons 
are growing wider. More and more 
students are becoming involved in 
public service activities: tutoring 
deprived children, helping migrant 
workers, spending vacations in urban 
ghettos. Not so obvious examples, 
perhaps, but equally important. 
Uncertainty across "the Dixie" 
All the action and, for that matter, 
the attention of Catholic higher edu­
cation shifted across "the Dixie" in 
early December when St. Mary's Col­
lege announced several unexpected 
and unprecedented shifts in its gov­
erning structure. 
To be specific. Mother M. Olivette CSC, superior general of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, in a letter to the faculty announced that Rev. John J. McGrath would become acting-presi­dent of the all-girl college January 1. The professor of comparative law at the Catholic University of America will replace Sister Mary Grace CSC, president of SMC since 1965. 
The announcement came November 24 and with it came traces of discord within the St. Mary's family. It all seemed to stem from a possible "mer­ger between Notre Dame and St. Mary's." 
Sister Grace felt that her dismissal was caused by her administration's failure to move more rapidly toward greater union with Notre Dame. 
Mother Olivette in her announce­ment gave no reason for the change of presidents. The letter only said Sister Mary Grace "has been invited to be­gin a special study of the role of wom­en in emerging Catholic universities of Latin America." 
A week following the announce­ment of the McGrath appointment, the College's new Board of Trustees met for the first time and issued a statement indicating that the merger of ND and SMC "was never con­sidered and is not in the immediate nor long-term planning." The new board did, however, indicate its plans to further cooperation between the 
two institutions so long as they re­
main "autonomous." 
Following the SMC Board meeting 
Father McGrath indicated that he 
would be on a year's leave of absence 
from Catholic U. and that he ex-
p)ected a new president to be named 
by the new lay-religious board to take 
ofiBce Jan. 1, 1969. 
Closer relations between the two schools began last year with the in­auguration of the co-exchange pro­gram, a move intended to make avail­able to both student bodies some of the best courses each school had to offer. At the same time the two drama departments merged into what is now the "Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre." 
Since then both institutions have 
approved further studies which might 
reveal ways and means of closer co­
operation. 
Sister Mary Grace together with 
most of the SMC faculty repeatedly 
has insisted that St Mary's for­
ever remain an autonomous institu­
tion. 
"I favor collaboration in all ways," 
Sister Grace said to the SMC student 
body following her dismissal, "but I 
do not favor losing the autonomy and 
identity of St. Mary's College. Some 
suggest that in the future this wiU 
come. I hope that it will not" 
From the other side of "the Dixie," 
the Notre Dame campus, there was 
no comment It is known, however, 
that the ND administration has ex­
pressed enthusiasm for greater col­
laboration with other colleges. 

Meanwhile, Bacii Home... 
As this issue of the ALUMNUS went to press, Notre Dame o£5cials were pre­paring for the formal celebration of the University's 125th anniversary. A two-day program was planned for December 8 and 9, highlighted by a symposium on "The University in a Developing World Society," and an academic convocation. 
Archbishop Luigi Raimondi, the Apostolic Delegate to the United States, was to be the principal cele­brant and preacher at Mass on Friday opening the observance. 
Among the guests invited to par­ticipate in the symposium were Dr. Nevitt Sanford, director of the In­stitute for the Study of Human Prob­lems at Stanford University; Rev. Paul J. Reinert, president of St Louis University; and Dr. Lee A. DuBridge, president of the California Institute of Technology. 
Complete coverage of the affair will be reported in the Winter issue of INSIGHT: Notre Dame due for pub­lication in mid-January. 
The Days after He Came 
A couple of loud echoes followed Rev. James Kavanaugh's talk at Notre Dame, Oct, 15. The first round was national news coverage of the talk in which Kavanaugh announced his in­tention to resign from the priesthood and marry "definitely." Next the pub­lishers of Kavanaugh's controversial book, A Modem Priest Looks at His Outdated Church, took out an ad in the Oct. 24 The New York Times book review section reiterating his an­nouncement. 
"I am resigning from the Catholic priesthood in personal protest against the refusal of the hierarchy of the in­stitutional Church to bring about reform," Kavanaugh said in the ad dated Oct. 16. "I announced my res­ignation before an assembly of students at Notre Dame University because this great University, a short distance from my hometown, represents to me the greatest Catholic center of learn­ing in the country. I can no longer wear the collar nor accept the title of 'Father,' when the institution I represent can cut off from communion the divorced and remarried, can re­fuse to admit its error in the matter of birth control, can ignore the plea of priests for marriage, can continue to reduce the principles of Christ to instruments of fear and guilt." 
Then the University, through Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, presi­dent, and Edmund Stephan, chairman of the Board of Trustees, issued the final volley. It was a retaliatory ad of the same size in The Times. Headed "In the Spirit of Notre Dame," this ad stated its purpose was to clear up "some confusion" about the appear­ance of Father Kavanaugh. 
"Father Kavanaugh was invited by a student group for a firsthand discus­sion of his controversial book," it stated. "The University was fully aware of this. Father Kavanaugh's views are, after all, commercially available to anyone who \\i\\ buy his book. It seemed fully consonant wth the purposes of the University that the students have an opportunity to confront the man himself. They did. His reaction has by now become wide­ly known." 
The advertisement included a re­print of an editorial which appeared in The Notre Dame Scholastic, the student magazine, which called Kav­anaugh's speech "as unsophisticated as a Huey Long harangue: repeatedly emotional, continuously negative and consbtentiy gross." The ad concluded by saying, "This editorial, we believe, justifies some faith in the ability of thoughtful students to learn from ex-
JAMES KAVANAUGH No embaTTassment intended. 
perience. We believe this represents the attitude of most Notre Dame men. There ^vill be other opinions, of course. That's what freedom of ideas is all about" 
And there were others. Kavanaugh got three standing ovations from the crowd of students in the Engineering Auditorium. And a letter from Rich­ard Rossie, a junior student senator, in The Observer, the student news­paper, expressed disappointment in the University's ad. 
"I cannot help but fed that the beauty and integrity of this Univer­sity, the Oxford of Catholic higher education according to Ramparts — has been tarnished ..., " Rossie wrote. "Why is a great University required to defend its academic freedom and to cater to an image that is false? ... " 
Chuck Nau, chairman of the Stu­dent Union Academic Commission who arranged for the Kavanaugh speech, explained that no reporters were invited to the speech and no advance publicity given out. In fact, Kavanaugh specifically asked him to keep the press away from him while he was on Campus. The story about the speech was sold to a wire service by a student journalist 
Recalling his first contact with Kav­anaugh last June, Nau said he agreed to come to the University only if it would not embarrass Notre Dame in any way. Nau said this referred to the possibility that Kavanaugh, who had been listed merely as a "disobedient" priest, might be suspended. He was still in good standing up until the time of his speech at ND and Bishop Alexander Zaleski of Lansing, Mich., had an official "no comment" con­cerning the resignation the day after his speech. 
In his talk Father Kavanaugh said he planned to leave the priesthood "as a means of expressing my utter rejection of the refusal of the bishops to put Vatican II into effect I have 

not done this yet but it is not too 
far in the offing." 
"Neither we nor the students had 

any idea he was going to use the 
University as such a platform," ob­
served Rev. Charles McCarragher, 
CSC, vice-president for student affairs. 
Kavanaugh is now associated with 

his brother as a marriage counselor 
at the Human Resources Institute in 
Lajolla, Calif, 

Home for a New Concept 
A "free university" class is a little un­certain. It can be almost anywhere and have anyone discussing anything. There is no required attendance and no grades. There may or may not be a faculty member present. But it may be the ideal of education—the interested search for knowledge. 
Meeting after class hours as an extracurricular activity, the "free university" brings together people who are interested in a subject not covered in the curriculum. The stu­dent president of the "free university" movement at Notre Dame, Dennis O'Dea, says it provides an opportunity to study a subject in depth. "Let's face it," says O'Dea, "when you're an undergraduate, you don't get the chance to really know anything. You know a little about a lot of things, but you don't know anything well." 
The "free university" tries to combat this by asking those interested in the program what they would like to study and telling those interested in the same subject about each other. There is generally a group leader but he can be either a teacher or a student. Virtually anyone who expresses an interest can be a group leader, because few people will offer to lead a seminar in a subject about which they are uninformed. The "free university," with a minimum of superstructure, has no control over what happens when a group forms. It either lasts or it doesn't. 
About 125 students are participat­ing in the program in seven function­ing groups, with t%vo or three more getting under way. The members decide what they will read, how often they \vill meet and in what direction the discussion will move. Subjects under discussion now include mass media, psychedelics, mysticism. Chris­tian marriage and the theory of polit­ical revolution. But there is room for more. 
The "free imiversity" is an attempt to get away from the sometimes binding structure of mass education. It is the result of student initiative. It does not appear to be a mass move­ment, though there are more ND and 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

St. Mary's students interested than its originators thought there would be. Numbers don't bother those involved. As O'Dea says, "There is a lot of un­tapped energy for academic work beyond the curriculum. We just want to give it a home." 

Fillies vs. Horsemen 
In the mid-'50s it was Mt. Holyoke over ND on the radio. In '59 it was Barnard over ND in a telecast from Washington Hall. Then, sure enough, on their trip to New York Nov. 4, the latest College Bowl team en­countered Bryn Mawr and it was the Philadelphia iiUies over ND. In 48 years, one of the ND team calculated, Notre Dame ought to be free of the Seven Sisters. 
BrjTi Mawr had overcome the Uni­versity of California at Riverside (220­
70) before topping ND 225-185. Then they went on to best the U. of Richmond (160-80) and Miami (310­
80) before they inevitably got theirs, too. Sweetly, it was again Barnard that drubbed the gals—205-175. 
But the team and the coach from ND kept their perspective—after all, it's only a game—and in the aftermath of defeat there were reflections on "what might have been." For instance, ND would have met UC of Riverside if it hadn't been for Michigan State. "We were originally scheduled to ap­pear Oct. 28, the day of the Michigan State game," explained Dr. J. J. Car-berry, professor of chemical engineer­ing who coached the ND four. "But 
FOURSOME FELLED BY FEAIUMES FATALES South Bend Eddie was on their side, too. 
before the season started that was to be the 'game of the decade' and we thought it would be a psychological disaster for ND to appear then so we asked to be rescheduled. As it was, our boys were running to the news­room to check on the Navy score every 20 minutes." 
Carberry started aligning his forces last spring. Initially about 40 students were interested in being on the team and 30 showed up at the tryouts. After three bouts, he narrowed the contenders do\vn to 12 and gave them a reading list for summer study. The final four plus an alternate were selected after a few more practices this fall. The team reflected Notre Dame's ecumenism—^with a Jew and a Lutheran lining up beside three Catholics. Team members were senior Dennis Gallagher, junior William Luking and sophomores Greg Adolf and Richard Libowitz. The alternate was Thomas Spinrad, a senior. 
Though there was no victory for the Irish that day in New York, there was plenty to teU in the locker room. A couple of tel^rams helped spur the team on to nothing. The Califomia cre>v beaten the week before wired this wish to ND: "Go Fighting Irish. Bryn Mawr wears falsies. Watch out for Shirley Lavine. Dominus Vo­biscum." And from the Faculty Club came this admonishment for Car-berry: "Don't split no infinitives." 
After the loss, ND picked up the telegram bit and sent cheers, cheers to Bryn Mawr—^"Hodie Miami Vin­catur—Nox Ara pugnum finiet" and signed it the coach, the Retired ND team and South Bend Eddie (see adjoining story). The wish (which in loose translaticm means let Miami fall, then Ara will finish the job) brought a thank-you note from Bryn Ma%vr captain Ashley Doherty. She wrote, "Our encounter with Notre Dame ^vas certainly our most enjoy­able and we thank you all for making it so." No false note there. 


Packers in Miniskirts Threat to Notre Dame 
EDITOR'S NOTE: On the eve of the now-historic clashes, ND vs. Navy and ND vs. Bryn Mawr, Philadelphia's Evening Bulletin ran a preview of the big one. Here, reprinted with permission, is what Sandy Grady wrote in his "Mon About Sports" column in the sports section Nov. 3 : 
"Anassa kata, kalo kale 

"la! la! la! Nike!" —Bryn Mawr chant. 
MRA PARSEGHIAN'S troubles have just begun. First he ran into Leroy Keyes at Purdue. Then it was Orange Juice Simpson and Southern Cal. And now it's Diane and Ruth and Ashley and Robin. Poor Notre Dame. 
Forget the Four Horsemen. These are Four Fillies. It's the Nightmare Bowl for South Bend — Bryn Mawr vs. Notre Dame. How can the Irish defend against a dream backfield drenched in Chanel No. 5? Ara knew he had a tough schedule, but Bryn Mawr, the Green Bay Packers in miniskirts? Too much. 
massive IQs from end to end. Even Rockne would blanch. 
Deep, versatile, swift on the buzzer, that's Bryn Ma\vr. There's Diane, nifty on reverses in Euroiiean history. There's Ruth, a triple-threat in Latin, Greek and archeology. There's Ashley, crushing on ofF­tackle plays into politics and poetry. There's Robin, elusive on runbjicks through Verdi, Van Gogh and Virgil. What can Notre Dame do but punt on first down and pray? 
A telephone call found Parseghian, "Moose" Krause and Terry Hanratty all tmavailable — prob­ably under sedation. The next best thing was to speak to South Bend Eddie, another VIP. He is the bookie who will take any bet, so long as it is against Notre Dame. 
"How many points are you offering on Bryn Ma%vr against Notre Dame?" 
And it's on the tube, for the world to see. The Who Did Bryn Mawr Ever Beat? 'T>on't kid around GE College Bowl, with $3,000 in the pot. (Never — we've got a tough one E^ainst Navy this week, mind Notre Dame's policy against bowls.) Power­bud." house Bryn Ma^vr, unbeaten, barely scored upon, with (Continued on Page 65) 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

Lowdown on SUMMA 
Never before has there been a imi­versity fund-raising drive organized like SUMMA, Notre Dame's effort to raise $52 million in five years. During the 17 months of plaiming for SUMMA, the foundation and public relations staff set up the drive via the marketing approach of businesses. In structure, SUMMA resembles com­munity United Fund drives—^launched with fanfare and employing highly organized teams of volunteers. 
The concentration of effort is being made in the cities where the majority of Notre Dame people (Alumni, parents, friends, corporations) live. "Through experience, we've learned that people in 40 cities give us 80 percent of our financial support," ex­plained Frank Kelly, assistant to the vice-president for public relations and development. 
These 40 cities are those hosting SUMMA kickoff dinners which in­clude a panel of speakers from Notre Dame. Five thousand people attended dinners in 19 cities in October; more are to come in January and May. In addition to the kickoff dinner and panel discussion, most cities have press conferences, luncheon meetings for campaign volunteers and local adver­tising. Before the kickoff in each city. Alumni and ND friends receive SUMMA brochures describing the goals of the drive in detail. 
"This assures that no volunteer ever makes what is known in the trade as a 'cold call,'" Kelly explained. He added that in every one of the cities visited in October the crowd -was either the largest Notre Dame gather­ing in recent memory or the largest in history. 
By next June the campaign in all of the primary cities will be over. Then concentration wU turn to secondary cities—those with fewer Alumni and friends—which give 15 percent of Notre Dame's financial support. Fi­nally, a direct mail campaign will be aimed at people who do not live in either primary or secondary cities. 
Fund-raising plans for secondary cities are varied. There may be in­formal dinners and guests from the University, but there will be no news conferences or local advertising cam­paigns. 
SUMMA campaign leaders feel the hard-hitting short-lived campaigns in individual cities wll be better all the way around. "It's just unrealistic to expect a volunteer to give up six months or a year of his life to devote to raising money for Notre Dame," Kelley says. "There are just too many 
JIM FRICK and FRANK KELLY Behind SUAAMA with fanfare and organizafion. 
more than 7000 volunteers involved in SUMMA. "One of the sigidficant things we've noticed," Kelly said, "is that more and more of the younger Alumni are helping. This is important because 50 percent of our Alumni have been graduated since 1950." 
With volunteers and through ef­ficient planning, SUMMA commit­teemen hope to keep down the cost of fund-raising. "The cost of Chal­lenge I was 2.419 percent and for Challenge II it was only 1.614 per­cent," according to James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and development "We hope SUMMA costs will be somewhere in that range." 
Everyone knows money has to be spent to raise money but, according to Kelly, Notre Dame's expenses have been unbelievably low. "Businesses spiend any\vhere from five percent to 28 percent," he commented. 
As of Dec. 1 the SUMMA count was $23,732,668 with "30 by 30" the chant in the background, meaning the conmiittee hopes to have $30 mHlion raised by Dec. 30. 


The Board Met to Consider... 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54 of South Bend will head the Alumni Associa­tion as board president for 1968. Rosenthal was elected at the fall board of directors meeting Oct. 12-14. 

The chief subject of discussion at the 
meeting was football ticket distribu­
tion and other topics covered were 
Club programs, continuing education, 
student affairs, admissions, religion 
and citizenship. 
Robert Cahill, ticket manager, re­

ported there was a good response 
from Alumni questioned about recom­
mendations for solving the ticket 
problems. He said 31 suggested sta­
dium expansion, six suggested closed-
circuit TV, five had no opinion, three 
responded negatively, two recom­
mended an annual Soldiers' Field 
game and one each recommended a 
revised distribution system, reduction 
of season ticket holders, elimination of 
S t Mary's seating and a sliding ticket 
price scale. 
He also reported the University has received a $10,000 gift which is to be used to explore the possibility of sta­dium expansion. An architectural firm is now studying the issue. Cahill commented that, to his knowledge, ND is one of a very few schools in the country providing tickets to parents. He also mentioned he hoped having ax home games next fall will help alleviate the problem. Herb Jones, business manager of athletics, said that, should the stadium be expanded, an additional 20,000 seats should fill current needs. 
Board President Ambrose F. "Bud" Dudley proposed the Alumni Board go on record as endorsing a temporary reduction in allotments for visiting teams and parents and the motion passed. 
ND Clubs: A proposed model Club Constitution was approved and the 100th anniversary of the ND Alumni Association was chosen as the theme for the 1968 Universal Notre Dame Night (official date April 22). "The Changing Chiurch" theme was chosen for this year's Universal ND Com­munion Day. 
A program of visits to Club regions was planned for Nov. 20-Dec. 6. Directors met with Alumni Senators (Club presidents) to discuss Club 
other demands on peoples' time."  BUD DUDLEY and DICK ROSENTHAL  
Across  the  country  there  will  be  Behind the Alumni, honorary and new presidents.  
10  ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER  

problems and University programs. These meetings were an extension of the new Alumni Senate which meet for the first time last May. 
Continuing Education: Dean Thomas P. Bergin of the Center for Continuing Education reported that, because of poor attendance at the two previous Alumni seminars at Re­unions, there would be no seminar this year. However, the Center is working with the Alumni Office to program a fall seminar for husbands and wives on a non-football weekend. The "Change in the Church" seminar from the last Reunion will be taken "on the road" to Boston and New York in 1968. 
Student Affairs: Rev. James Riehle, dean of students, reported the student body was generally "quite well be­haved" this year and that only about eight or ten students were expelled during the 1966-67 year. Arthur Pears, chief of security, rejxjrted there was an increase in the number of "muggings" on Campus and that from all indications the source of the trouble was off-Campus. He added that some of the security officers are now armed with pbtols as is the case in 85 percent of the colleges in the country. 
Admissions: Brother Raphael Wil­son CSC, director of admissions, re­ported there are 31 Negroes in this year's freshman class compared to 12 in 1966. He said the increase was primarily the result of a program of nationwide communication wt h promising Negro students conducted by the Committee on Minority En­rollment, a student group. 
Brother Wilson said the total number of Negro students on the ND campus was still much too low. He estimated that between 60 and 70 Negroes are enrolled altogether. He added the non-Catholic enrollment is very small and the University would like to see an increase in this area. The University had already received 400 applications for the 1968 fresh­man class and 80 preliminary ac­ceptances had been sent out at the time of the Board meeting. He also mentioned that 211 members of this year's freshman class are sons of Alumni. 
Religion and Citizenship: Rev. Joseph Fey, new University Chaplain, reported response to Sunday Masses at Sacred Heart Church is excellent and that nearly all are standing room only." He has inaugurated a special Mass the first Sunday of every month featuring a distinguished celebrant or speaker. He said he felt at leaist 80 percent of the students practice their faith regularly. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19<7 DECEMBER 

ACADEME 
FATHER HESBURGH BEFORE THE FACULTY Th* time has com*. 

A CONBRESS FOR ACADEMICIANS 
Now THAT NOTRE DAHE has com­pleted major restructiuing of its govenmient it is free to move into self-renewal, innovation and experi­mentation. Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh CSC, Notre Dame president told a special group of faculty at a closed meeting in late November. Their session was an attempt at just such a venture. 
The occasion was the first meeting of the newly formed Faculty Senate. Approved by the Board of Trustees last May, the group of senators was created to make recommendations to the University's Academic Council on matters affecting the academic life of Notre Dame. 
In all, 61 representatives have been elected from the four colleges, the Law School, the Computing Center, the University Library and the Spe­cial Professional Faculty based on one senator for every ten faculty mem­bers with each division receiving at least one representative. 
Professor Edward J. Murphy, the lone member from the Law School, %vas elected temporary chairman of the Senate while Rev. Leonard N. Banas CSC, an assistant professor in the Modem Languages Department, was selected the group's temporary secretary. 
The inaugual meeting also brou^t forth the appointment of two com­mittees: the first, a seven-man group, to begin work on writing the Sen­ate's bylaws; and the second, known as the Steering Committee, to work on procedures, agenda and the date of the next meeting. 
Each senator is elected for a three-year term juid may be re-elected. One-third of the group are elected each year. 
Members of the Faculty Senate are: College of Arts and Letters — Father Banas, Rev. Ernest J. Bartell CSC, Paul G. Barthelomew, Paul F. Bosco, George A. Brinkley, Rev. David B. Burrell CSC, Rev. James T. Burt­chaell CSC, A. Robert Caponigri, Frederick J. Crosson, Peter P. Grande, Seymour L. Gross, John J. Kennedy, Thomas M. Lorch, Edward Manier, Paul E. McLane, Harry A. Nielsen, Bernard Norling, Robert D. Nuner, Robert F. O'Brien, James E. Robin­son, Stephen J. Rogers, John F. San­tos, John A. Scannell, Stanley S. Sess­ler, Marshall Smelser, Thomas R. Swartz, Robert H. Vasoli and John A. 
Williams. 
College of Business Administration — Salvatore J. Bella, Paul F. Conway, William F. Eagan and LeClair H. Eells. 
College of Engineering — William Berry, James J. Carberry, Nicholas F. Fiore, Francis M. Kobayashi, Ken­neth R. Lauer, John W. Lucey, Frank Montana and Walter L. Shilts. 
College of Science — Harvey A. Ben­der, Roger K. Bretthauer, Sperry E. Darden, William M. Fairley, Norman 
B. Haaser, George F. Hennion, Gerald 
L. Jones, Robert P. Mcintosh, John 
W. Mihelich, Daniel J. Pasto, Barth Pollak, R. Catesby Taliaferro, Joseph 
A. Tihen, Erhard Winkler and Ber­nard S. Wostmann. The Law School—Edivard J. Murphy. The libraries of Notre Dame — L. Franklin Ixmg, George E. Sereiko, Vernon W. Vogd and Richard J. Vorwerk. 
Computing Center — Leon E. Win­slow. 
n 
Prompt TV Learning 
A student sits in a soundproof booth. A pair of headphones is beside him. In front of him is a screen. And avail­able to him are all the tools of the modem media: film, slides, audio­tape and videotape. He has at his command all the information for a course. He can proceed at his own speed. He can take the exam when he feels he is ready. His teachers are free of the daily grind of lectures— free for consultation, for discussion of difficult points. 
This is a classroom scene of the future. But Notre Dame and other leading institutions are on the verge of developing independent study op­portunities for students, says John Meaney. As assistant to the vice-president for academic affairs and director of educational media, Meaney will help the University achieve that end. 
DR. MEANEY Notre Dame's media man. 
Imported this fall from the U. of Texas, Meaney brings credentials few can match. A 1940 graduate of ND, he continued his studies at the U. of Chicago and at Texas after wartime service in the Navy. He helped form the first educational TV station in the country at the U. of Houston in 1953 and became its manager. After a year in France on a Fulbright fellowship and more work in ETV, he was tapped by the US Office of Education as a consultant on educational tele­vision, then by the Ford Foundation for a similar post. In November he was at the White House for President Johnson's signing of the Public Broad­casting Act allocating $9 million for educational broadcasting. 
Meaney's work is not a completely new project at ND. There is already an audio-tutorial laboratory for private study in Nieuwland Science Hall and the modem languages department also has tape facilities. 
Meaney says he wants to find out 
what the goals of the faculty are. 
"Then we can see how the metfia can 
help. There is a definite receptivity 
among faculty members for increased 
use of the materials that are avail­
able," he says. 
Meaney envisions use of all the media, but particularly television. Fa­cilities may be available for in­structional television for Notre Dame courses. Also in the offing may be an educational television station broad­casting programs to South Bend and producing programs to be used by other ETV stations. "This would be a tremendous public relations effort on the part of the University," ac­cording to Meaney. "It could be a real window on Notre Dame for the rest of the country." 
The new station would probably share facilities with WNDU-TV, the University-owned commercial staticm on Campus. One possibility for im­plementing the plan would be the establishment of a nonprofit organ­ization governing the operations of the ETV channel and possibly the two existing educational FM radio outlets in South Bend. 
Educational TV, like Ae other media, attempts to give wider access to ideas. ETV can do for the com­munity what the other media can do for the student body: educate and, to quote Meaney, "improve the quality of American life." 
An Inestimable Privilege 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. Philip Hughes LID '55, emeritus professor of history who died Oct. 6, was on internationoll)' known authority on Catholic Church history. But he achieved a special fame among the ranlcs of his students. One of them. Rev. Morvin R. O'Connell PhD '59, reflected on his memories of Msgr. Hughes in this story in the Catholic Bulletin Oct. 20. 
Philip Hughes was laid to rest one bleak, rainy day last week in the little priests' cemetery at the edge of the campus of the University of Notre Dame. It had been his wish to be buried there in the midst of other men who, like himself, had striven for a lifetime to hear the word of God and to keep it. 
As I stood among the mourners at the graveside, I recalled my first meet­ing wth Msgr. Hughes, a little more than 11 years ago. I had come to Notre Dame, only months after my ordination, to study under the direc­tion of this world-famous English historian. And though from the first I appreciated theoretically the oppor­tunity, only the following years of close association would reveal what an inestimable privilege I had received. 
Indeed, the prospect of that initial meeting filled me wth foreboding, be­

cause shortly after I arrived in South 
Bend I had been given the impression 
(how and why no longer matter) that 
Msgr. Hughes regarded me as much 
too yoimg and inexperienced to be a 
student of his. 
So it was with considerable trepida­tion that I attended his first lecture of the term. As he came into the room where the students were waiting, his awesome figure was hardly cal­culated to put a young man's fears at rest. He wore a cassock with a short shoulder cape, and he walked with a heavy limp, due, I learned later, to a leg stiffened by a chronic nerve ailment. His ruddy face was crowned with an umiily tangle of white hair, and though he looked older than his 61 years, his penetrating eyes seemed to defy any chronological category. He sat down and after cere­moniously switching eyeglasses (he scorned bifocals) he began to speak. 
When he did I forgot everything, including my uneasiness, as I listened to the most magnificent lecture I have ever heard. The subject was the nature of history and specifically of Church history. He spoke in a high-pitched voice, deliberately, calmly and yet wth an intensity which was spell­binding. The hour flashed by in a moment and it held more wisdom and wit, more shrewd analysis, human compassion and timeless insight than any I have ever expierienced before or since. 
Afterward, as the students filed out, he fixed those sharp eyes on me, and I, brought suddenly back to my threatened fortunes, was sure my first contact with Philip Hughes was also to be my last. 
"You are Fr. O'Connell, I believe," he said. 
"Yes, Father," I answered, with heart pounding. 
"You were ordained last June?" It was more an assertion than a question and, as I muttered a barely audible affimative, I wondered how long it would take me to pack my things. "Then by all means," he said, "I must have your blessing." And down he went, with great difficulty because of the stiff leg, to his knees. Somehow or other I managed to remember the words of the priestly blessing. 
Perhaps I have indulged too much in what is so personal a memory as to be of interest only to me. Certainly Philip Hughes' death, considered as a loss to the Church and to the world of scholarship, outranks any pangs which those who loved him may now feel. Yet that gesture of courtesy and compassion offered to a frightened youngster more than a decade ago 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

imperfect men and women viho are m<HUunentaI history of the FngK«ili the Body of Christ in this time and Reformation: "And in all this, where place, and of whom he was thinking is the mind and heart of the ordinary when he wrote the last line of fais man?" 
PEOPLE 
MONSIGNOR HUGHES Of much wisdom and wif< 

remains as a bit of evidence of the 
kind of man Philip Hughes was. 
Nothing human was alien to him 

and this was one reason he achieved 
such stature as a historian. To be 
sure, he had immense intellectual gifts 
which light up the more than two 
million words he published during his 
career. But he also possessed that 
childlike character which Our Lord 
defined as a condition for entry into 
the kingdom of heaven and which, at 
the same time, takes delight in dwell­
ing among the sons of men. 
There was no guile in him. His intellectual chastity was absolute; his integrity never compromised. He dis­played not a scrap of bitterness, even though his career was testimony to the hazards which the intellectual has had to face in this era of the Church's history. Not till his last years—^not indeed till his association \vith Notre Dame—did his contribution to Cath­olic life begin to be appreciated. Before that, though his greatest books had already been published, he received little but apathy from those in high places who seemed to think it odd that a priest should also be a scholar. 
A historian, after all, is a chron­icler of past disasters which have stemmed mostly from human frailty and folly. No one knew better than Philip Hughes the blemishes which have disfigured the Bride of Christ down through the centuries. No one could lash out more forcefully than he against those twin deformities of avarice and ambition which have brought so much mischief into the life of the Church. He recognized, in short, how frail is the vessel in which are kept the faith and the sacraments of faith, how mysteriously intertwined are the damaged human condition and God's redemptive action. 
This insight, which for lesser men has been an occasion of hatred or despair, set Philip Hughes free to love the Church, warts and all. By "the Church" he seldom meant princes or prelates. Rather he referred to the 
A familiar foe felled Dr. James A. Reyniers '30. Ironically, it was cancer that both caused his death and brought him a large measure of fame. In 1957 Reyniers' germfree experi­ment which produced seven genera­tions of cancer-free mice was hailed as the biggest breakthrough in cancer research in a decade. The founder of ND's Lobund Institute revealed a high percentage of the same strain of mice developed cancer within months in a non-germfree atmosphere. An­other notable achievement of the Mishawaka native who pioneered the development of the gennfree animal laboratory was investigation c^ tooth decay sources. 
Dr. Reyniers, who died Nov. 4 in Tampa where he headed the Gemw free Life Research Center, directed the renowned Lobund Institute for 28 years until he resigned in 1959. He called Lobund the "dream of a young college student." Among the honors he reaped were appointment to the first board of the National Science Foundation, the Pasteur Award of the Illinois Society of Bateriologists and the first annual lay faculty award at ND. In May, in a hospital in Tampa^ ND awarded him an honorary doctor of science degree. 
DR. REYNIERS A dream come true. 

An accurate historical picture of Martin Luther is coming from Cath­olic writers after nearly 400 years of slander, according to Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC, University presi­dent. Accepting an honorary degree at a November Valparmso (lad.) U. convocation commemtMating the post­ing of Luther's 95 theses. Father Hesbiu^ said a milestone in Catholic scholarship on Luther was published in 1917. It was this paper by F. X. Kiefl, a Catholic professor ol dieology at the U. of Wiirzbuig, which put Luther back in a religious ccmtext and, saw him as an instrument chosen by God to purify the Church. Father Hesburgh also told the Lutheran uni­versity audience the Second Vatican Council opposed some of the same tendencies which Luther fought against in the Chmch of his d^ . 
A man and wife have joined together for better teaching. Enc Bauer, assis­tant professcM- of modem languages., and lus wife Brisitt who teaches across the road at St. Mary's Collie, have developed a new approach to teach­ing b^inning German. They aim to make the language study more enjoy­able and intellectually benefidal to the student by putting him in contact with the language as it is currendy spoken. 
With their text, reader, teacher's manual, practice workbook and tapie recordings, all published this year, they emphasize the linguistics approach of recognizing sentence patterns rather than memorization of grammar rules. A theme is introduced and, when the student comprehends the material, he takes important speech patterns from the context, practices them and develofis than into new situaticRis. 
Their new course is the result of the Bauers' study of teaching methods and linguistics during the last six years and of classroom experience, includ­ing Mr. Bauer's work at the ND program in Innsbruck, Austria. 
Liberalizing abortion laws would likely mean the operation would some­day be available cm demand simply as another birth control device, accord­ing to Thomas L Shaffer '6IL, profes­sor of law. In an October t ^ at an Oberlin Colli e conference on pro­posed changes in criminal abortion statutes, Shaffer charged that physi­cians "are unwilling to say candidly, as the American Civil Liberties Union has, that abortion reform is a matter of birth control, that it is not a medical matter at aU." 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 
ARCHBISHOP PAUL J. HALLINAN Awarded 1967 Sorin Award. 
IN A WORD, COMMITMENT 
THERE is a lot to be read and to be 
'heard about Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan, recipient of the third annual Edward Frederick Sorin Award for dis­tinguished service to Notre Dame. The award was presented at an Oct. 13 Campus dinner by Ambrose F. Dud­ley, Alumni Association president. 
A native of Cleveland, Archbishop Hallinan is a 1932 Alumnus and holds an MA in history (1953) from John Carroll U. in Cleveland. Ordained in 1937, he was in parish work in Cleve­land for five years and spent three years as an Army chaplain in the Southwest Pacific. 
He was consecrated bishop of Charleston, SC, in 1958 and ap­pointed archbishop of Atlanta four years later. ND gave him an honorary 
u 
doctorate in 1962. Both during and after the Second Vatican Council, Archbishop Hallinan served oa com­missions for renewing the liturgy and is the episcopal moderator of the National Newman Apostolate. 
The Sorin Award, established in 1965, previously has gone to the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Univer­sity president, and Bernard J. Voll, South Bend industrialist and civic leader. It is named after the priest who founded ND and guided its for­tunes for a half century until his death in 1893. 
The latest winner is known as an innovator in education, a pronunent figure in Church matters and leader in civil rights. But the moment of my first meeting with Archbishop Halli­nan was a deceptive one. He is a man small in statiure, soft in voice, gentie in action. Bouts with hepatitis have not left him unscathed. Innovator and leader he did not immediately appear to be. 

The conversation began, progressed and became an enlightenment. The accolades and labels were true. But the trite phrasing of labels did not convey the depth of the man. His words came easily and strongly, bear­ing young and vigorous ideas on a solid tone of conunitment 
CommitRient. This would be the word, if only one word were allowed, to convey the spirit of Paul Hallinan. His own words fill out the portrait— and the words are unequivocal: 
"Noncommitment wU not do. What the restless protesters detest in our society, in our colleges, they also sneer at in the safe Catholic: organized to the hilt, but committed only to the superficial." 
Archbishop Hallinan has committed himself far beyond the superficial. Two months after his enthronement in Atlanta he announced the 23 schools in his 71-county diaconate would be integrated. Five years before Medicare required it, he integrated the Catholic hospitals. He dispatched nims and priests to Selma to represent the Church in the Negro's plea for justice. 
After announcing the desegrega­tion of his schools, he expressed the hope that "this move of ours, and other moves, comes in time." 
That seems to be the same hope he feels when speaking out on Vietnam— that his action may come in time. He suffers under the knowledge of the death and destruction that is the daily routine in Vietnam. Under this mantle, he put his name to a petition calling for negotiations to end the war. 
Witness is the word. He once told a class of Notre Dame Seniors: "the word witness is almost a definition of the Catholic layman; we do not say great things, but we live them. We must be and do, before we talk." 
The Archbishop returns often to the basic tenets outlined in Vatican II: the Church is the people of God and the layman has an integral part in the structure of that Church. 
"Unless the Church is related to men and women in the market place it can have no meaning," he once declared on Campus. "The world will not be saved in the pulpit nor in the sanctuary. It will be saved on Main Street, Wall Street, Broadway, and in the suburbs and cities." 
He believes there are lessons to be 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 

learned from the protesters and dis­
senters. "What I am pleading for," 
he told a national Newman Club 
conference earlier this year, "is that 
yve take their side—espouse it, defend 
it. Share wth them, not their hatred, 
but their agony when they find teamed 
up in American life righteousness and 
racial hate, affluence and starvation, 
national honor in war but little na­
tional honesty in peace. There is 
something radically sick with a na­
tion whose law makers, when faced ' 
with rats and ill-fed and ill-housed 
people, voted for the rats. 
"Young jjeople have grown im­

patient and have indeed become 
rebels in their distress. They are 
aware of their influence in the life 
of society and they want to assume a 
role in it sooner. We must not con­
demn this protest and rebellion, rather 
we must meet it with an honest heart 
and share it %vith a Christ-like mercy. 
The danger exists that we will send 
out intellectuals without roots, social 
workers without hearts, and Catholics \vho are only faintly Christian." 
Neither doctrine nor whin). His dec­laration was attacked, challenged. Some Catholics in Georgia asked him to publicly state his was not a "decla­ration of moral teaching, but a per­sonal whim." He could not. He told them—^in the weekly diocesan news­paper—that his statement on the war was neither a doctrine nor a whim. 
"Both Pope Paul and Pope John had made much stronger appeals for peace," he commented. "My duty here is as a leader of this diocese; I must stand up and lead." 
His creed is commitment: "If men 
* Among the Award's official party and guests were Alumni President "Bud" Dudley, Miss Irene Dunne and Father Hcsburgh. 
THE ARCHBISHOP and UNIVERSITY FAMILY* ".. . of whom all Notre Dame is proud." 
of religion are not to comment upon the social and economic problems of this day, what is the Church for?" 
Christian commitment does not wipe away the world's ugliness by doubling a United Fund contribution. It is a commitment which is built on compassion which reaches into the heart," he once explained. Safeguard. An important guard against this danger is a vibrant, active system of Catholic education. But the system itself is in danger. The very attributes of a Catholic system of higher education—development of the total individual—are being attacked by automation and depersonalization. 
"The student enrolls," explains the Archbishop, "and finds, not Mark Hopkins ready for dialogue at the other end of the log, nor Newman's university where the professors • were 'the living voice, the breathing form.' 
No, you find that the rmiversity com­municates through the clatter of the computer." 
He attacks not only the anonymous mass of people, but the too organized instruction that may also exist in today's university. As he counseled Newman Club leaders, "insistance on true academic freedom could be your most needed contribution. Urge the freedom to teach, to hold, to dissent, in season and out." 
And freedom—Shaving its roots in truth—should spring from the Church if from anyone at all. He has been known to describe the Church's role as "society's yeast, society's sentinel and society's ideal." 
He has earned the recognition and acclaim of many, but his own words fiortray him best: "noncommitment will not do." 
—P. Michael Boscle '66 

The Edward Sarin Award Presented by The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association to 
MOST REVEREND PAUL J. HALLINAN, DJ)., LL.D. Archbishop of Adanta—Class of 1932 
To speak with the tongues of men and of angels—and to have charity—that is indeed service to Our Lady and to Notre Dame. From his student years as an undergraduate editor and a lay student. Archbishop Hallinan has spoken and written effectively and eloquently in the tongue of man. Time, ordina­tion, talent, episcopal and archiepiscopal honors have evoked the inevitable tongue of angels. From his pioneer priesthood. Father Hallinan took the two tongues of his apostolate, and his inherent charity, into the vital channels of the secular campus, and there created new stature for the Newman Clubs. The personal growth of the eminent American churchman has continued to be shared generously in the pursuits of this in­creasingly significant academic arm of the Church. 
IT was a recognition of reason, requiring no inspiration of the Holy Spirit, that placed Archbishop Hallinan on the Liturgical Commission of the Second Vatican Council. The same per­ception had elevated him to the demanding and initial oc-
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
cupancy of the Metropolitan See of Atlanta. His has been an eloquent and authoritative voice of peace with justice in a time of turbulence. The future of man and of the Church has not disturbed the faith of Archbishop Hallinan or his influence. Rather, by the clarity of his thought and expression, he has given the Barque of Peter an essential stability against the ebb and flow of tides less objective. 
HE is indeed a deserving Knight of Our Lady, clothed in the armor of light and armed with the sword of the spirit, who has brought to the problems of our times not only an admirable tolerance, but an exemplary and constructive leadership. As strong as the rock on which his Church stands; as charitable as Our Lady; as militant and venturesome as the Sarin who founded his Alma Mater, Archbishop Hallinan is a Notre Dame 
man of whom all Notre Dame is  proud.  
James D. Cooney  Ambrose  F. Dudley  
Secretary  President  

CARL YASTRZEMSKI and FOLLOWERS* Beontown's miracleman. 
TED ... Who's He? 
Classes 
Y
az . . . Yaz . . . Yaz . . . and the beat goes on. Beantown, USA, has never been more exhilarated over the performance of an athlete — home run, clutch hitting Carl Yastrzemski. 
Weeks after the 28-year-oId Bridge­hampton, L.I., native led the Boston Red Sox to the American League pen­nant and do\vn to the wire in the World Series before losing in seven games to the St Louis Cardinals, the town is still agog with excitement. 
Can the sports miracle of '67 con­tinue? Can the Bosox, a sorry ninth-place club in '66 and champions the following year, put together a •winning combination next summer? 
Local partisans who watched Yastrzemski mature into one of the game's greatest outfielders believe the adrenalin-type tempo of Tom Yaw­key's lads will spUl over into another season — or more. 
And the chief reason: The Red Sox have finally come up with an inspira­tional leader — a team player with total devotion, imselfishness and hu­mility. 
Notre Dame men in this region pop their suit buttons wt h pride when Yaz is mentioned. They are as proud of the American League's Most Val­uable Player and triple-crown winner as Yastrzemski is of the University of Notre Dame which he attended be­fore signing, in his sophomore year, with die Red Sox for a handsome $100,000 bonus. 

Following the World Series Carl flew to Miami wth Boston sports­writer Al Hirshberg, who is co-author of a new book, Yaz, which %vill be printed by Viking early in '68. In numerous conversations with Hirsh­berg, the American League's MVP re­lated his great love for Notre Dame. 
"It is one of the deepest regrets of his life that he was unable to finish classes at Notre Dame and graduate," Hirshberg relates. "Notre Dame was Carl's first choice and even while he was on campus as a freshman in 1957 he had over 14 bonus offers from major-league teams. He finally signed after a sophomore semester in 1958 and because of his baseball commit­ments he had to complete his educa­tion off season at nearby Merrimack College, finishing in 1966. 
"Nevertheless," Hirshberg contin­ued, "Carl has kept a close relation­ship with his friends at Notre Dame. During the winter, he often takes his vacation with a priest whom he met when he first arrived on the campus. Rev. Glenn R. Boarman CSC now director of development. University of 
* Fans include Vice-President Humphrey and (below in a picture taken five years ago) his wife Carol, daughter Mary Ann (left) and Carl III. Photos courtesy of Boston Herald Trcaclcr. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

Portland. It was through one of his freshman roommates that he also was introduced to Carol Ann Casper of Pittsburgh — the present Mrs. Carl Yastrzemski and now the mother of Carl Michael Yastrzemski III, 6, and two lovely young daughters. It was Father Boarman who officiated at the wedding. 
"Yaz," Hirshberg smiled, "hopes that Carl Jr., will someday bat clean­up for Jake Kline's Notre Dame base­ball team." 
Yastrzemski himself never got that opportunity, deciding instead to launch his starry career. It was cul­minated the past season when he socked 44 home runs, led the league in batting with a .326 average, batted in 121 runs and finally inked a new contract for $100,000 with Red Sox o\vner Yawkey and General Manager Dick O'Connell. 
Yaz's contract for '68 is exceeded in Boston only by the $125,000 Ted Williams received in his heyday. 
Yaz, who is limiting his winter din­ner appearances to six occasions, discloses he hasn't set any loftier goals for himself next season. 
"I think 44 homers is a lot for me to hit," he conceded. "I don't know if I can better that. I just don't know because the things I did this year with the bat continue to amaze me. I finally found out how to relax and enjoy the game, I guess. 
"I think if I could hit between .320 and .330 and bat in around 100 runs next year, it would satisfy me. I'm not sure about the homers," 
What impressed Tom Yawkey the 

ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
most about Yaz — the triple crown? The great catches? Spectacular throws? Clutch hits? 
"His leadership," declared the mil­
lionaire Red Sox boss. "His inspira­
tion for the younger players." 
Sox clubhouse man Don Fitzpatrick commented: "I thought there could never be anyone greater than Ted Williams. But Yaz was everything and more. He did things that even some of the players didn't know about. They talk about super stars, but Yaz wasn't a super star. He was a super-super human being." 

Fitzpatrick credits Yaz as the one who held everything together on the ball club. He divulged that a telegram from Notre Dame students gave the young slugger a lift during a critical point in the World Series. Yaz clouted a pair of home runs the next day, sparking the 5 to 0 Red Sox victory that squared their series with the Cardinals. 
"He just wouldn't let the guys fall apart," he recalled. "I think that during the course of the season just about every guy on the club felt like it was over at one point or another. But he wouldn't let them quit." 
Fitzpatrick recalled also how Yaz called home run shots in the dugout before going to bat. "That night in Detroit when we were losing 5 to 4 in the ninth in that real big game he told me—'I'm going to hit one out of here off this guy right now.' He did. 
"Two nights later in Cleveland, Sam McDowell was pitching and he said the same thing—'Fitzy, I'm going to get one off this guy right now.' And he did." 
And, so, the beat goes on . . . "Yaz ... Yaz ... Yaz." 
—J. Richard Lamere '49 

Calling Dr. Diplomat... 
Though being named an exchange student rarely attracts much attention anymore, the assignment of James E. Muller '65 caused a stir all the way to Capitol Hill. 
Muller is the first American medi­cal student to be chosen for exchange studies in Russia. Before he left for Moscow State U. in August, he ex­plained that he hopes to build "a sort 
JIM MULLER '65 Moscow his beat. 

of medical bridge" between the US and Russia while he is over there. In addition to his research in neuro­physiology, he is making contacts with Russian medical students and their professors, trying to establish more exchanges between the two coimtries. He is earnest in his feeling that all areas of friendly cooperation between the US and USSR should be explored. 
Although an exchange program for 
medical students has been in existence 
for 10 years, there has never been an 
American student with sufficient com­
mand of the Russian language to 
take part in the program—untU Jim 
Muller, that is. 
He and his Notre Dame roommate 
had everything in their room labeled 
with its Russian name and they used 
the language for all their conversa­
tions. The hard work paid off— 
first in good grades and now in the 
grant from the State Dept., the Ford 
Foundation and an association of 50 
American universities. All expenses 
for travel, tuition, subsistence and 
personal needs are paid by the grant 
and, as an added bonus, a visit to 
Siberia is included. 
The trip to Russia is being coimted for the requirement of an elective project at Johns Hopkins Medical School where Muller is a third-year student. The son of Dr. Paul Muller '37 and Mrs. Muller of Indianapolis, he hopies to write a book about his expteriences after he returns to the States in January. 
...and a Traveling Padre 
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson CSC, N D vice-president for business affairs, will lead a "Friends of Notre Dame" group to Europe in 1968. The tour will leave NYC May 11 and return June 1. Trans-Atlantic air travel will be via Swissair and Scandinavian Air­lines. 
The itinerary includes Portugal, Spain, Austria, Italy, Germany and Denmark Highlights of the trip ^wll be a visit to the Shrine of Our Lady of Fatima May 13; Toledo, the home of El Greco and a stronghold during the Spanish Revolution; a perfor­mance of the famous Lippezaner Horses at the Spanish Riding Acad­emy in Vienna; a Papal audience in Rome; steamship cruise through the Rhine Valley; and a three-day tour through Fairytale Land of Denmark, made famous by Hans Christian An­derson. 
All friends of Notre Dame are wel­come on the trip but a limited num­ber of reservations will be accepted. Full details and a brochure are avail­able from Edgerton's Travel Service Inc., 226 S. Main St, South Bend, Ind. 46601. 
Headed for Friendlier Sl(ies 
For the nation's top-ranked living air ace, it was just a "short hop" to his new post this fall as assistant director of public relations at Gnmiman Air­craft Engineering Corp. "I've been doing this sort of thing for the Air Force for the past 27 years," com­mented Col. Francis S. Gabreski '42. 
Widi 371^ kills to his credit from World AVar II and Korea, the 48-year­old Notre Dame man, who attended the University from 1938 to 1940, retired from the command at Suffolk County (LI, NY) AFB and headed for his new job at nearby Bethpage, 
LI. At retirement ceremonies, the veteran pilot was presented the Legion of Merit, the nation's highest non-combat award. 
Asked if he thought he had lived a charmed life, Gabreski nodded and explained, "The longer you stay up destroying other aircraft in time of battle, the luckier you've got to be." One of the reasons for his departing the (un) friendly blue skies is that it gets a little rough educating nine 
COLONEL GABRESKI A charmed life. 
children on Air Force pay. He also admits that "I've had a full career." 

Among the decorations he earned in World War II and the Korean War are the Distinguished Service Medal, Distinguished Flying Cross, Distin­guished Service Cross, the French Legion d'Honneur and Croix de Guerre, the Polish Cross of Valor, British Distinguished Flying Cross and the Belgian Croix de Guerre. 
During WW II he was American liaison officer to the Polish Air Force and flew 20 combat missions %vith them. He was shot down over enemy 
:> 

TttC M9SO Reunion Committees have popped their corks to promote the festivities next June 7, S and 9. In letters to classmates of the 50-Year Club and years ending in eights and threes, the committees suggested writing to friends and urging them to attend the weekend events. Rosters listing current addresses were included with the letters which gently prodded the Alumni to get those messages 
moving . . . by rail, air or sea power. 
territory in July, 1944 and was a prisoner of war until May, 1945. After his liberation he was assigned as a test pilot at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. 
30-¥eir Nib 
ALBERT A. KUHLE *15 117 SUNSET AVE. LAGRANGE, ILL. G0325 
Your secretary was agreeably surprised to receive a note from FRANK E. QUISH 'U who resides at 630 Merrick Ave., Detroit, Mich. 48202. Frank informs ine that he is retired from the Burroughs Corp. and was national advertising mgr. of the Burroughs Clearing House for 30 years. Frank sa^-s he has been able to go back to the Campus several times a year for a few days at the Morris Inn. He goes to football games when he can get tickets and reports that his order was accepted for the game at Atlanta and hopefully at Miami. 
Although Frank was not a member of the Class of '15 his response to my pleas for ncvfs was no doubt prompted by the ready availability of the yellow postcard which appeared on page 30 of the ALUMNUS. Will members of the Class of 'IS please follow suit. Your secretary will appretaate any neiv's items. His address is at the top of the Class column. 
A letter addressed to EDWARD G. GUSHURST was returned as undelivered. If Ed liasa't already sent in hb current address, I suggest he do SO soon with a copy of the change to me. 
— Albert Kuhle 
GROVER F. MILLER '16 
1208 SOUTH MAIN ST. 
RACINE. WIS. 53403 
Word comes from CARLETON D. BEH that he has heard from our classmate, DANIEL C CURTIS and tliat Dan as of Sept. 25 was in the hospital at a Veterans Administration Center in Wood, Wis. where he has been ^nce June 10. Carleton states that Dan has undergone three heart surgeries and that he now has batteries with wires connected to his heart. It was ex­pected tliat after two more weeks of convalescence Dan would be transferred to a nursing home at 2027 North Wells St., lhfil»^ukee. Wis. Dan's address at the Veterans Administration Center is Room 623-60 North, Wood, Wis. 53193. Un­doubtedly Dan would enjoy hearing from his old classmates and would welcome our prayers for his health and happiness. 
PAUL FOGARTY and your correspondent were recent guests of JOE FLINN for golf at the Crystal Lake (111.) Country Club. Paul and Joe didn't do badly at all, but yours truly, who hit a golf ball tliat day for the first time tn »x or seven years, was much less than adequate in the game. A chilly rain cut short our play after 

ALUMNI FUND REACHES ALL-TIME HIGH In early December, contributions to the University's 25th Annual Alumni Fund were running at a record rate. The latest figures indicated that Alumni had made 438 more gifts this year than were made at the same time during the 1966 record-setting year, Dennis F, Troester, director of the Fund, has reminded Alumni that contributions through the Fund are applied to the SUMMA goal. Moreover, contributors to the SUMMA program automatically become contributors to the Annual Alumni Fund for the calendar year for which the gift is made. The 1967 An­nual Alumni Fund will close Dec, 31.. 
eight holes, but wc had a most enjoyable gabfcst over the luncheon table. 
EDWARD McOSKER '17 523 MELROSE AVE. ELGIN, ILLINOIS 60120 
GEORGE WAAGE 
3303 WRIGHTWOOD AVE. 
CHICAGO. ILL. 60647 

BIRTHDAY GREETINGS: Nov. 4, JAMES P. LOGAN, 2951 Fillmcre Way, Denver, Colo. 80210; Nov. 8, J. PAUL FOGARTY, '17 5555 Sheridan Rd., Chicago, 111. 60640; Nov. 14, RAY C. WHIP­PLE, 373 Wcslcm Ave., JoUct, 111.; Nov. 16, FR.ANK. X. RYDZEWSKI, 8355 Burley Ave.. Chicago, HI. 60617; Nov. 22, FRANCIS A. AN­DREWS, 424 Alisouri St., Fairfield, Calif. 94533; Nov. 23, WILLIAM J. ANDRES, 410 Dorchester Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14610; Dec. 1, CHARLES 
lil8 
W. BACH^L^N '17, 11 Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla.; Dec. 15, FRANK M. KIRKLAND '17, 950 S.W. 21st, Portland, Ore.; Dec. 18, CARLETON D. BEH '17, 5323 Waterbury Rd., Des Moines, Iowa; Dec. 21, EDWIN T. BREEN, 1542 Sherwin Ave., Chicago, lU. 60626; Dec. 28, PAUL E. EDGREN, 701 Culbcrton Dr., Okbhoma City, Okla. 73105; Dec. 31, RENE A. ROD­RIGUEZ, 2266 Broadu-ay, Denver, Colo. 80205; Jo*. 1, EDWARD R. McDONNELL, 316 Wood­land Dr., Council BlulTs, loMa; Jan., LEONARD 
F. MAYER, 721 S. Beach St., Daytona Beach, Fla. 32014; Jan. 23, JOHN A. LEMMER, 901 Lake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Mich. 49829. 
WEDDI.NG ANNIVERSARIES: Dec. 2, ED­WARD J. KENNY, 74 Cameron Ave., Home­stead, N.Y. and EDWARD R. McDONNELL, 316 Woodland Dr., Council Bluffs, Iowa; Dec. 20, 
B. A. MUNECAS, 16, 776 Georsctown St., Rio Fiedras, Puerto Rico 00927; Dec. 24, PAUL E. EDGREN, 701 Culbcrton Dr., OUahoma City, Okla.; Jan. 2, NEIL J. WHALEN, 1023 Cadieux Rd., Grossc Pointe Park, Mich.; Jan. 4, W. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

BREEN MCDONALD, 55 W. 5th Ave., San 
Mateo, CaL 94402. 
CHARLES W. CALL, 1M7 BUtmorc Dr., Win­ter Haven, Fla. is recovering from a tough op­eration. No cancer but be may bave had a touch of hepatitis on a trip to India, Thailand and Laos. As of now he sees every reason to be on hand for the June jubilee. "MORRIE" E. M. STARRETT, 419 Quincy St., Port Townscnd, Wash, reports: "worst worry over — no opera­tion imminent. Concentrating on June." ''ERNIE*' 
J. BURKE, 1416 N. New York Ave., Orlando, Fla. 32803, \^ited the hospital for surgery. Was in need of repairs and he had it done during the "dancing" ofT-scason. Dr. RENE RODRIGUEZ, 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo., is hoping to re­turn to Campus in June. "TEXAS" WILLIAM 
A. GRADY U7, Box 596, Carrellton, Tex. writes that he'll bom in on us come June. Welcome rug is out for all '16 and *I7ers. 
MAXIMILIAN G. KAZUS, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216, admits that he has been "off bis oats" but is planning on returning with wife to Campus in June. Max writes that Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS P. MONIGHAN bom March 13, 1883, died Aug. 8. A Requiem Mass was celebrated at St. Joseph Church in Gregory, 
S.D. by Bishop W. T. McCarty. On Aug. 10 in Oil City, Pa., Rev. Robert Bower celebrated Mass and interment was in Cal\*ary Cemetery. NORBERT G. NONNING's son reports that his dad passed away in Vet*s hospital in Cincinnati. 
FRANK BAIRD WELSH M6, Box 807, Fall River, Mass. writes that June '67 he became the great grandfather of twin girls. Now let's hear from Dixon, Seng and all you guys if you can top Welsh in the great grandfather field. Say that guy Dr. NEIL J. "WHITEY" WHALEN, 1023 Cadieux Rd., Grosse Potnte Park, Mich, along with his \vifc has been cutting up this summer. Staying at Dromoland Castle, out of Limerick, he had several days for golfing. "Had letter from JOHN LEMMER before we sailed to Europe on the Queen Elizabeth stating that he was going my way but wc never got the chance to see him. Had to go to Paris for a meeting I was interested in and was there for one week, then to Cher­bourg and back on the last trip of the Queen Mary. What a ball." 
REUNION '68 

When all these 'l8eis — former St. Joe, St. Ed»'ard, Brownson, Corby and Sorin Hallers — meet this June it sure will prove a ball, recalling the time they did not have the pot or window. Be sure and plan on being there to keep *em from talking about what you did while on campus. It'll be one great big bull session better than any of the "lites out" sessions. 
BERT SENG and his wife drove down to Dixon, 

III.
 and had dinner with their old friends the cx-Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DIXON and his Mrs. Seng reports that the Dixons with their mono­gram track star son PAT '67 are off to the West Coast calling on FRANK KIRKLAND and hop­ing to get in some good salmon fishing. FRED 

L.
 STEERS *n, 1910 W. 107th St., Chicago, lU. 60643 sent the Illinois Bar neivs brief about WIL­LIAM E. BRADBURY '16, Robinson, II!. 62454 being honored in recognition of achieving 50 years' law practice. -Also cited was former attorney general JOHN E. CASSIDY '17, 1128 Jefferson BIdg., Peoria, III. Mr. Cassidy gave the re­sponse for the Senior Counsellor Class. 


From DANIEL E. HILGARTNER JR. '17, Forest Springs, Harbcrt, Mich., comes the fol­lowing; "You know when you originated an exchange of birthday greetings betwieen classmates I thought for a while you had gone fluffy and that it was a ridiculous idea among old goats like ourselves but I was astounded at the number of cards I received from old friends and classmates after my date was mentioned and — naturally pleased. Think it is a great idea, as well as wed­ding anniversary greetings." Appreciate your note, Dan. Personally believe we should give them the flowers when one can smell them. So you guys keep sending out the greetings. 
JOSEPH T. RILEY. 715 Hackley BIdg,, Mus­kegon, Mich, sent a copy of an interesting and greatly appreciated letter to PETER J. RON­CHETTI, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. 78404. Riley, thank Peter for birthday greetings. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
Even if it has been 50 years since you "broke 

bread with the guy" in the Main Biul^ng <&uns 
room, send him a card. Make your plans now 
to see him in person this, your year on campus 
this June. Time will melt a%ray the 50 years 
after you've talked with him 15 minutes — youll 
both start talking about "remember when?" 
Christmas Greetings. May the New Year have 

in store for you and yours loads of health, happi­
ness and contentedncss. May you live to be a hun­
dred and a long time in heaven before the devil 
knows you're there. 
THEODORE C. RADEMAKEK 
PERU FOUNDRY CO. 
PERU, IND. 46900 

1919 
JAMES H. RYAN 
2470 EAST AVE., APT. 314 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14610 

1920 
You will see a picture from the last issue of the 1918 Class of the very distingubbed Hon. Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DIXON, a Democrat. He belongs to the 1920 Class. He is as youtliful and distinguished in every way as the President, LBJ. I asked him to write to a Republican classmate Hon. JOSEPH P. O'HARA in Washington. I talked with Joe and find that with arthritis, often very painful, together with a staunch Repub­lican in a Democratic administration, he is not as happy a man as he might be if he were on the Democratic team. He has the ability and ideas that a good Democrat would use. I think Sher­wood would agree. 
I called the bank president, PAUL J. LOOSEN. He just returned from a 30-day automobile trip to Expo '67 in Montreal along the East Coast returning through Tennessee. He should be ques­tioned as to why he spent only one day hi Montreal. Was it because be comes from a cattle and wheat country in a town of 800 in Okarehe, Okla. and couldn't agree with the French, or was it the congested area of the East or was it he left his bank in charge of his Notre Dame son and feared control of bis purse strings? His daughter is with Saks Fifth Ave. in Los Angeles. 
This report will come out just before Christmas and I will have a new Ibt of our Class and an exchange of Christmas greetings from the mem­bers will add cheer to many. 
DAN W. DUFFY 
1030 NATL. CITY E. Gib BLDG. 
CLEVELAND. OHIO 44114 

1921 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 
175 LANDING RD. N. 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14S25 

1922 
We are highly pleased with the eolargemeDt of the staff of our news reporten for tliis colunm. It is strictly a voluntary deal. Every living Class member is a potential reporter. Join our repor­ters* staff. Just send in the news about yourself and your Classmates in any manner and it viSi be processed for publication. 
The early fall edition of the ALUMNUS carried a rather brief report in the obituary column of the death of CHESTER "CHET" A. WYNNE SR of Oak Park, lU. on July 17. We feel we should add a few more details, and in particular quote VINCE HANRAHAN who said that Chet's visit to the Campus to attend our 45th Reunion last June bordered on the heioic. Chct, of course, fully realized that he was very seriomly afflicted with cancer. Nevertheless, he insisted on making his final pilgrimage to the Campus to be with his classmates for a final visit. Two close Chi­cago friends: Hon. ROGER KILEY and OJAY LARSEN '23 accompanied Chet on his round-trip journey, and tenderly administered his needs. Can anyone think of a greater lesson in University and class loyalty than that given by Chet in the last days of his life? We gratefully thank Rog and OJay for their grand assistance to our be­loved classmate. 
Chet was a fine football pbyer at ND. Later he coached football at Midland Col., Creighton and Auburn and was head coach and athletic director at the U. of Kentucky from 1934 to 1938. But Chet decided that law would be his chief business concern in life. He became a member of the law firm of Burton, Isaacs, DIXON (JEROME '22) and Wynne. He had served as legal counsel for his home village of Oak Park, lU. and was a trial lawyer for the Chicago Tran­sit Authority. The funeral services were held in Oak PaA but burial was in Omaha, Neb. FaU­beareis included Jerry Dixon, Judge Roger Kiley and Ojay Larscn. Others attending the funeral included J. FRANK "RANGY" MILES. 
"MOOSE" KKAUSE. BILL SHEEHAN and 
JIM MARTIN. 
We of '22 win greatly BOB Chet at lotiire 
Class Reniuoas. He was ahnjs present at our 
5-year mnuoos. He was a reil gentleman and 
was extremely loyal to his funily and friends; 
also, to ND and '22. Flease do lemember Chet 
in your prayers. Onr sympathy is extended to 
the bmily of the deceased and to Jen , IKxon, 
his law partner, chise friend and law aaociate 
for many yean. 
To our Class president J. RALPH COKYN 
and his wife of 2545—IStb St.. Mofine, SL we 
tender profotnMl sympathy in the tragic death 
of their son Hon. JOHN CORYN, of East Mo­
line, a 3rd district appellate court judge, who 
lost his life Oct. 5 along %rith four businessmen 
in the crash of a l^ t plane in Saskatchewan. 
Canada. The group planned to fish near the 
area where the plane crash occurred dming a 
heavy snowstoim. John gtaduatMl from ND in 
'51 and the Law School in '53. 
Now we know why BILL DWYER of London. 
Ohio failed io show at our Reunion. He and 
Mrs. Dwycr were viriting their daughter Mary 
who is doing Peace Corps work in Dakar. Sene­
gal, West Africa. The Dwyer group toured 
Europe and Ireland after the Dakar nsit. J. 
FRANK "RANGY" MILES has been named 
Outstanding Fraternal Chairman of the State of 
hdiana for the Knights of Columbus. There are 
ax chairmen for each local council. 
CLARENCE PAT MANION was awarded the 
Wanderer Forum Award, a silver Revere bowl, 
in appreciation of extraordinary service to God 
and country. Frtun Dayton, Ohio, word comes 
that FRANK BLASIUS has retired from his re­
tirement. About one and a half years after 
Frank closed out his many years of service with 
HQ Air Force logbtics command, he aimounces 
his affiliation with the physical ed. dept. at U. of 
Dayton, where he finds a most pleasant and re­
warding environment. 
The DAN YOUNGs of Drexel KH, F^. via'ted Banff, Lake Louise and Alaska this siunmer. In mid4)ctobcr they are seeing Expo 67 in Blon­treal and motoring along the St. Lawrei>ce to Quebec City and Ste. Anne de Beaopce. The RALPH CORYNs earlier motored west through Canada and on to Portland, Ore., where they greatly enjoyed seeing Mrs. PAT HIRSCH BUHL and BILL SCHMITT '10. Rev. GEORGE FISCHER CSC was stationed at St. Fiitrick's Cathedral. NYC. bom Aug. 6 to Sept. 4. 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 
1667 RIVERSIDE Dlt> AFT. A 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 4G616 

1923 
The Good Lord has ^ven our Claas a welcome 
reprieve from the stream of deaths usually le­
pcvtcd in these columns, there being none to 
report nnce the last issue of the ALUMNVS. 
^tea d SUMMAtters and the functiomi^ of the Sports and Games Library seem to have attracted a goodly number of *23eTs. MARTIN BRENNAN and JOSEPH DONALDSON were on Campus Sept. 13 for the SUMAIA conference and judging from the announcxment in the most recent SUMMA news release, that Buffalo, N.Y. is included in fl^ht three next Mxy and Louis­ville in flight one in October, both of them are even now hard at work in their respective home cities. 
Following 16 yean of service to ihc American Federation of Labor, HARRY W. FLANNERY retired Sept. 29 as radio coordinator for the AFL­CIO dept. of public relations. He aba col­minates about 51 years of activity in the field of journalism and the more recent communication arts of the ether waves having been a reporter for his home tctWn paper, Hag€Tstowm_ (Md.) MaU, before coming to ND. On Campus he distin­gmshed Imnsdf as a student, Schoiastic staff mem­ber, editor of the Dome and founder of the Notre Dame Dmfy at about the time of bis graduation. In tlus effort be was a man ahead of bis dmes and his brainchild £ d not last ioog thereafter. Flan inoneercd in radio journalism at WOWD Fort Wayne, KMOX in St. Louis and then went to Berlin as war concspondent for CBS. Hairy also has been a frequent contributor to 
REUNION '68 
w 
AN EXPERIENCED HAND

«!. Daniel Cuihane '23 
OPENS AGAIN WITH JACS 
A
FTER A LIFETIME of working for the Boys' Clubs of America, J. Daniel Cui­hane '23 and '26 retired in 1965. But he found it tough to keep the irons out of the fire. He's back helping young men — and women, too, this time — as deputy director of Joint Action in Community Service Inc. (JACS). 
J.ACS is an organization aimed at getting jobs for Job Corps trainees. The private, nonprofit corporation was or­ganized by representatives of the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Charities, National Catholic Community Service and the National Council of Churches. J.ACS works through established church agencies and community groups to find volunteers to aid Job Corps gradu­ates returning to their homes or new communities. 
J.ACS volunteers set up job inter­views, provide transportation or help the Corpsmen find living quarters or social activities. In short, JACS in­sures that the nation's investment in the Job Corps program is not wasted. 
Cuihane, who makes his home with his wife Marguerite in Chevy Chase, has been on his new job since March. For some time he was the only person employed by J.ACS so he was involved in setting up the entire program. Now that the organization is growing, his duties have become more definite: de­veloping a board of directors, establish­ing contacts with national organizations and securing their endorsement, assist­ing regional directors and getting na­tional publicity. 
On one of his recent promotion trips, he visited California, Nevada and Texas to speak about J.^CS and secure volun­teers. "It seems to me that this is a 

magazines and authored four books. Assignment to Berlin, Pattern for Peace, The Church and the Workingman and a book not yet published entitled Which Way, Germany? Flannery and his wife plan to move to Los Angeles to live out their retirement-
MAURICE B. FRANK for years listed on the Alumni office's **mail-retumcd-unclaimed" list, has recently been added to my active list of classmates, as an executive of Stamp Dispensers, Inc., 30 N. LaSallc St., Chicago, lU. 60602. Authors PAUL CASTNER and FRANCIS WAL­LACE continue to develop the Rockne lore with recent books or planned volumes. Paul has almost fimshed a long list of taped interviews with per­
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 BROOKDALE RD. TOLEDO, OHIO 43606 

1923 
Received this letter from JAMES E. ARM­STRONG, our own former Alumni Secretary. We cherish the hope that wc will be reading more of this talented fellow who is a genius in putting thoughts into words. 

''The trip has added an enormous stature to the role of the Armstrongs as debtors of the Class of '25. Our return plane landed two weeks ago today. I am just beginning to cuimc down. 
"Dramatic and attractive as Africa sounded, common sense indicated an adjustment of the program, which proved to be uncommonly con­structive. Instead of a few days in Ghana wth Phil and a few days in Europe ^^ith frustration. We adopted *Plan B' whereby Brother Phil (still on vacation and most willing) met us in Rome and stayed vnth us for the entire three weeks 
most worthwliile endeavor and should receive the support of every citizen who has a genuine interest in the progressive development of our coiutry and its citizens," Cuihane comments. 
Except in unusual cases, he does not have any direct contact with the Job Corps graduates. However, he has be­come involved with individual Corps­men through contacts with corporation executives and has been able to place several of them in excellent jobs. "Two of our Corpsmen have already obtained scholarships to universities through our efforts," he points out. 
Naturally, any new organization has a great many problems, but Cuihane feels that "considering the fact that the great majority of our Corpsmen are dropouts from school, we feel the program has been most successful. 
"This does not mean that we have been successful with every Corpsman, but when you consider that within the year there will have been 80,000 of these Corpsmen returning from training centers, we believe our record has been most satisfactory. 
"Probably our biggest problem is securing enough volunteers to work with these Job Corps graduates to help them get oriented in their community, to see that they are employed and act as a counselor to them until they are securely established. We believe our program offers a wonderful opportunity for citizens to render a very construc­tive service to those who need it most. 
"What it boils down to basically is taking a boy who has been a school dropout, has been frustrated and hope­less, and providing him with a second chance through a Job Corps training 
sons who knew or knew about ''Rock" and his publication date is tentatively set for spring, 1968. His theme is the inspirational effect which Rockne had on many thousands of youngsters in his own time and in the legend which faas evolved. Paul has been a frequent Campus visitor and he filled me in on more details during the weekend of the Iowa game. Wallace's book, Notre Dame, from Rockne to Parsegkiem was fiist published in the fall of 1966 and because of the great interest which developed in the '66 Number One team, his publishers asked hizn to bring the book up to date by including the 1966 season. 
Don't Hesitate — Be With Us In '68! 
including 10 days in Rome, a day in Venice five in Paris and four in London. It was a first experience for all of us and continuing cdncatioa in its most effective form. 
"The unexpectedness of the trip endowed - it with a spontaneity and a lack of organization which turned out to be one of its most appre­ciated features. Girl-watching on the \a. Vcneto, girl-watching in St. Marie's Square, giri-watching on the Champs Elysces and girl*watching in Camaby St. (our hotels were Icxsited dose to all these post-doctoral areas) proved that the thoughtfutness of the Class had exceeded all previous achievements. Marion and PhO were very impressed with the scenery and the history of our environment, 
"The quiet sunset of retirement has been post­poned indefinitely by the fireworks of this three* vfeek rubbing of one magic lamp after another. 
'*You can see how inadequate thanks seem after this totally highlighted summary of what .until 

center where he learns a skill and re­
ceives some basic education and then 
returns to his home community. At 
this point, if some interested citizen 
does not help him get established in 
the community and in the job, he may 
become a tax consumer instead of a 
tax payer for the rest of his life. 
"We hope thinking citizens through­out the country will volunteer to ren­der this personal service to these Job Corps graduates." 
Cuihane himself knows all about per­sonal service. He spent 42 years in Boys' Club work, assisted in the or­ganization of the USO during World War II, was a member of the White House Conference on Youth and the White House Conference for the Pre­vention and Control of Juvenile De­linquency and has lectured frequently on youth topics. He has also served as vice-president and member of the Alumni Board of Directors of ND and is a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers. 
A final word from Cuihane the Pro­moter: "Anyone wanting additional in­formation regarding our program can contact me at our National Office, Room 1009, Dupont Circle Building, 1346 Connecticut Ave. NW, Washing­ton, DC 20036." 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 
301 S. LAFAYETTE BLVD. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 

1924 
WILLIA&f J. CROOK writes, "After 30 years as postmaster in my home town, I have retired spending my summers at our lake home near Detroit Lakes, Minn., and my winters in Rpe* stone, Minn, (the Fun City of Podunk Valley) with two months in Arizona to break the winter's bite. Last winter my wife and I spent a month with our youngest son in Levittown, L.I., and a month with our only daughter in Beltsville, Md." 
June 9, 1967 bad been in our mothball fleet of dreams. Jim" 
VIRGIL FAGAN and GEORGE CHAO were having their own special 42nd reunion with their wives in Penang, Malaysia. Virg spent seven weeks in the Orient and a two-week "resting up" period in Hawaii before coming home. He saw MIKE VELASCO in Manila and Mike looks great. George has a son living in Brooklyn and a daughter who is a doctor living in Belfast, Ireland. As indicated before George is retired now and is busy transbting St. Thomas from English into Chinese. His wife Joan is a prin­dfal of a grade and high school %rith 3,500 students. In a few years when Ac will retire they plan on a visit to the US and ND. (George .. . why not make it for our 45th?) 
A short note from LEN FRETT in St. Jo­seph's Hosp. in Aurora, HI. tells me fae faas been under tfae weather since March. Thanks, Lcn, and our prayers to you for a speedy recovery. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

JAMES I. WARGIN MD writes from LA he 
has been associated with the U. of So. Cal. 
medical school as clinical prof, of obstetrics and 
gyn., in addition to private practice. Jim teaches 
and acts as a senior attending ph>'sician on the 
US service at LA Gen. Hos. and also consultant 
at LA County Health Dcpt. in the Bureau of 
Maternal & Child Health. 
JOE BURKE wrote: "After long years in the 

federal service I return to work in retirement as 
claim examiner attorney for the comptroller of the 
city of NY." "Congrats" to GEORGE VER­
GARA who is the first ND man to be prcs. of 
the Touchdou-n Club of NYC. BERT BER­
TELLI is on the present board of directors (this 
information was on the stationery). George 
writes: "Saw DON MILLER, RIP MILLER. 
ADAM WALSH and CHUCK COLLINS at a 
fine testimonial for JIM CROWLEY in Scranton 
April 30. Don Miller was in great form and 
was the best speaker on the program. Jim was 
kind enough to have me on the dais. I re­
counted what Don had said a few years ago 
paying him a tribute by saying very sincerely. 
J. N. GELSON GELSON & LO^VELL, INC. 200 E. 42nd ST. 

1926 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 

DANIEL J. O'NEILL was among the 11 fellows honored by the Illuminating Engr. Society at its Montreal Conf. Sept. 14. He is credited with many new lighting designs, particularly in indus­trial lighting indoors and out. Manager of in­dustrial lighting for the Holophane Co. Inc., NYC, he is the author of numerous papers and articles in the trade press. IS PROBST writes, "Haven't seen a '26 since last year's Reunion. Been be­sieged by friend and enemy for tickets to Miami-ND game. Are you coming?" 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 
111 W. DO^VNER PL. 
AURORA, ILL. 60304 

1927 
The day of the So. Cal. game was not a total loss at least for a few of the lawyers of the Class. MIKE SWYGERT, BILL TRAVIS, JACK DAILEY and your secretary were invited to at­tend the annual dinner of the Notre Dame Laivyer Alumni at the Hans Haus in South Bend fol­lowing the game as recognition of the fact that we all had served on the staff of the first volume. AfARC FIEHRER had also been invited but was unable to attend. Following the dinner the four o{ us and our wives joined EUGENE KNO­BLOCK, BOB IRMIGER and EMMETT BAR­RON and their wives at South Bend Country Club. By the end of the evening the score of the game had been completely forgotten. 
A few ^vceks ago our Class prcs. DAN CUN­NINGHAM sent a letter to those members who could not attend our Reunion asking for a con­tribution to the Mass Fund. So far checks have been received from HUGH L. CAMPBELL JR, BILL CLARKE JR, AL DIEBOLD, FRANCIS 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 6413 N. SHERIDAN RD., AFT. 1007 CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 

1928 
DONALD A. TEAHAN died on May 27, 1964 following an acute coronary thrombosis. Don had been with "Whitney Aircraft Corp. in East Hartford, Conn, for 20 years in penonncl work. He is survived by his widow Claire who lives in Hartford. Don attended our 20- and 25-ycar re­unions. A Mass was offered for liim at the request of the Class. Father LEO FRIERSON OSB, who received his MA with us, is also deceased. 
Tlianks to GENE O'BRIEN I am pleased to advise you of the marriage of JACK DOYLE. This is the first marriage I have reported in years. How about additional ones or, better yet, a report of a birth? Who has the youngest child? Please advise. 
Congratubtions to CHARLES DUCEY, the new deputy supreme knight of the K of C; to JIM SHOCKNESSY on reappointment to his fourth term as chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission; to Judge BOB GRANT, chief judge of the US District Court for Northern Indiana, on his 10th anniversary in the Court; to FRANK CREADON of the Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. and a member of the Board of Directors of the Chicago Assn. of Life Underwriters for his selec­tion as "Man of the Year" by the Riverside, III. Lions Club; and to ED McKEOWN for his work as Chairman of the Advisory Council of St. Procopius Col. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 
If this dinner honoring JIM CROWLEY was 
being held in Nome, Alaska tonight, I'd be 
there.' I think this reflects the spirit when 
Toots Shor came to Scranton on a broken leg. 
Gene Tunney from New York and Vince Lon»­
bardi in a special plane from Green Bay." 
FRANK HOWLAND received the E. H. Meyen 

Memorial Award which is presented annually to 
the individual who has contributed the most to 
the life insurance industry. Congratulations, 
Frank. I ran into BILL SEIDENSTICKER and 
his wife at "Half a Sixpence" in Columbus and 
for Frank Howland's information I found out it 
was Bill and not you who paid for my Class 
picture while I took Bishop JOHN KING MUS­
SIO out to the Airport after that beautiful Class 
Mass sung by the CSC Brothers, led by our 
own JOHN KANE'S son. 
JOHN W. COURTNEY'S note said: **We sold 

our home in Dearborn and now reside in Long 
Beach, Ind. The baby oE the family Nancy Jean 
graduated from St. Kfary's of the Woods in June. 
She teaches at the Notre Dame parish school. 
Long Beach, so the five arc off the payroll. I 
T. AHEARN, GERVASE A. FROELICH, TOBE GISH, JOHN GLASKA, BILL O'KEEFE, JOE MADDEN and CHAMP C, VAUGHAN. Further contributions, of course, are always welcome. 
The wisdom of establishing the Afass Fund has already been brought home to us. Although only a few months have passed rince June we have lost three classmates. BILL CARTER, JOHN McBRIDE and JOHN "SKIPPER" SCANLON. Bill Carter had attended the Reunion with his wife. She said that the trip was almost a honey­moon because they had only been married a year. She pointed out that Bill was responsible for her becoming a Catholic two years ago. She said she told him over and over again how right this was for her. Bill himself had a colorful career. Most of the years following graduation were spent in newspaper work in the vicinity of Newark, N,J. One of the outstanding features in his professional life \%'as his coverage in '34-'35 of the Lindbergh baby kidnap-murder case. He covered the arrest and trial of Bruno Richard Hauptmann com­pletely. He scr\'cd with the Army Air Force during WW H and then resumed his publicity business. 
HUGH CAMPBELL who lives in Hazelton, Pa. wrote mc about the death of John KIcBride who was a teacher at Hazelton HS. John died sud­denly shortly before the start of classes. He had an excellent record as a teacher and advisor of his pupils. In 1366 the yearbfwk was dedicated to him. AU of the lawyers will remember "Skipper" Scanlon- He came from New Mexico and went back there upon his graduation. He was an active Iaw>-er during his entire career. 
DAVE HICKEY of Saratoga, Calif, has passed on some interesting news from his area. He says he has talked to Dr. CLETUS BANWORTH of Milbrac, Calif. CIctus* oldest boy is a West Pointer now teaching at the Academy. His second is at Cal. Poly, and the youngest is a 
CECIL ALEX.ANDER has moved to Surfside, Fla.; NORB SEIDENSTICKER to Southern Pines, N.C.; WALTER LAYNE to Santa Monica, Cal.; and Father JIM McSHANE has returned to his mission in Honduras. ART DENCHFIELD u with the Kcycs Realty Co. in the Mianu area* Incidentally, Art has four boys, ages from 17 ta 26, who are single. 
BILL BROWN and your secretary spoke at the National Catholic Social Action Conf. at the U. of San Francisco this summer. We are also mem­bers of the Board of that organization. Inci­dentally, BILL BROWN did an outstanding job in an article on civil disobedience in the WtS' consin Bar Bulletin for Aug., 1967. GEORGE KELLEY had an excellent article in the July 13, 1%7 issue of America on liturgical changes. I note on the letterhead of correspondence from the International Assn. of Insurance Council that JOE GRIFFIN is secretary-treasurer of that or­ganization. 
Thanks to DAVE HICKEY '27 of Saratoga, 
REUNION '68 

am stin covering the same temtoij xa MJrh^an 
and Incfiana." 
A copy of a letter from Jim Armstroi^ to 
Mrs. T. J. Barry, 2 N. Dewitt, Morgan ICllt 
CaGf. advised me of the death of TOM BARRY. 
A few days later word came of the death of 
JAMES F. BffcNICHOLAS. Remember Hank 
Wuizer^s Mass Fund! Our Hank has done a 
trcmeDdoos job as treasurer. H b Ma s cards and 
letters to the families of our classmates have 
been commcodable. Special thanks to PAUL 
ROMWEBER, JOHN TRAYNOR, GIL SCHAE­
FER. CHUCK COLLINS, JOHN DROEGE and 
so many others who are always on hand to help 
in our Class efforts. If some of you did not get 
a copy of our owm Bishop Musno's talk kt me 
hear from yoo. 
BILL SEIDENSTICKER advised me of the 
death of JOSEPH E. FTTZPATRICK on Aug. 
15. Joe was retired VP and senior trust ofiBcer of the Florida National Bank. He is survived by bis wife Ruth, 903 Paradise Ave., Coral GaUes, Fla. A Mass wiB be said for Joe and yon fellows can add him on your prayer list. 
freshman at Notre Dame. Qetus visited Mexico a few years ago and was entertained by CARLOS PALOMINO and RAFAEL GOMEZ in Mexico City and FERNANDO TRAVINO in Monterey. HERB BROWN (who, incidentally, started out in life in Aurora but in recent years has been living at San Leandro) also iduted these men a few years earlier so they know we are keeping track of them. BERNIE ABROTT is the Federal Judge m Oakland. "SCRAPIRON" has moved to Modesto, Calif. Dave does not exactly say so but he implies that "Scrapiron" has retired. JOHN HOGAN is in West Covina; he lost his wife recently and will appreciate your prayers. 
Dave also advises that MIKE &fcDERMOTT is in Long Beach along with JOE MADDEN, a leading barrister. Dave saw DON SEHL in San Mateo and at the time of writing the letter his Club was planning the annual dinner for Coach Puseghian and three Notre Dame pbyers of the East-West Shrine Game. Don is in semi-retirement and is doing a good job in arranging the dinner which will be held in the San &&teo Elks Club on Christmas Day. Dave of course was at the Reunion and says he put FR.\NK CONWAY in the competent hands of LOU HOUGH and then came home to hear the good news that HORACE SPILLER Just brought in another well in Texas. 
JOE MADDEN has written that after he fin­ished Notre Dame, he took his law at USG and has been practicing in Long Beach nnce 1930. He has three grown sons. 
Some time ago thfise of us who ordered Re­union pictures received an tdentifica^n chart. Credit for the idea which led to the preparation of this chart probably should go to JOHN GLASKA more than to anyone else. He wrote a letter of appreciation to DICK HALPIN, VAN CUNNINGHAM and others who completed the job. 
CaliL and to TOM KEEGAN '20, an attomer in Rockford, HI. for their letters of apprcdation for nxy efforts in writing this column. 
May I add for the Class of '28 our appredation to JIM ARMSTRONG on his retirement for all he £ d for our Cbus over the past 39 yean. We will miss you, Jim. 
A Chicago friend of mine advned that HENRY MASSMAN went to Rome tlus summer to see John Cardinal Cody recehre his red hat, He also informed me that Henry's three sons are members of the Ma^mnn Construction Co. in Kansas City which operates nationally and which is listed in the top 500 contractors by the £)if»­
ntenuE Ntws Record, JOHN ANTVS informed me that WILLARD WAGNER had undergone some major internal surgery, but had fully recovered. John's son and BILL DWYER's son are at Loyola U. Law SchocJ this year in Chicago. I was pleased to note a picture of BILL O'NEILL, preudent of Leaseway Transportation Corp., in the July, 1967 issue of Fortune m^arine. It was also a pleasure to see a picture of HOWIE FHALIN and aa article ab<Hit bis work as chairman of Field Enterprises Educational Corp. in the July 29, 1967 issue of Smsimess Week, Home's most re­cent appointment was that of general chairman, of the Chicago N D SUMMA campaign. 
The response received to projects promodng oar 40th Reunion to be held on June 7, 8 and 9 indicates it will be the greatest ever held at ND. 
21 
Bernard Loshbotiffh 
 HOUSING leaders across the country, 
To 
Cora Street is almost as well known 
an address as 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. 
Cora Street in the Homewood-Brush­ton area of Pittsburgh is the "star" of a documentary movie about improving the living conditions of the country's middle income group. The film—and the redevelopment of Cora Street—are the work of ACTION-Housing Inc., whose executive director is Bernard Loshbough '29. 
ACTION-Housing remodeled the 22 two-story row houses on Cora Street to show the advantages of rebuilding rather than razing. They bought the houses for $4000 each and spent about $6000 per unit in remoleding. Now the ren­ovated houses cost the tenants just a few dollars a month more. 
Financially ACTION-Housing "broke even" on Cora Street by selling the houses back to the landlords but Losh­bough believes it could have been a money-maker. Now he's helping set up the Allegheny Housing Rehabilitation Corporation (AHRCO) to undertake such projects on a large scale. 
According to Loshbough, who has been on the ACTION-Housing staff smce 1957, "AHRCO" is repeatable anywhere. The basic idea is that a new three or four million dollar corporation can make 1000 new houses out of old ones every year, rent or sell them to families at reasonable rates—^and still make a profit of §500 per unit. A limited dividend corporation such as AHRCO can secure a mortgage for 90 per cent of the total costs and expect to begin reaping dividends five years after organizing. 
Cora Street's houses were redone inside and out as "an honest demonstra­tion," Loshbough explains. "We paid prevailing wages and bought every ounce of our materials on the open market and we took no gifts for con­struction—^not one." 
CORA STREET MAP SHOWS THE WAY OUT OF SLUMS 
Among the enthusiastic fans of Cora Street is Senator Charles Percy (R-IIl) who arranged to show the movie to his colleagues. lEs "rave review" of the film and the project in a Senate speech have brought Pittsburgh and Loshbough into the national limelight 
"The idea is not an original one— everyone in housing has been trying to do this for more years than I can remember," Loshbough points out 
However, the formula which AC­TION-Housing developed as a step to the solutioa of rebuilding America's slums, is a new idea worked out by Loshbough, the group's attorney and officers of some of the large corporations on the ACTION board. 
Loshbough is convinced that "to solve the problems of the inner cores of American aties will involve a joint venture between government and the private sector, with private enterprise taking the leadership where appropriate, and with both fully and sympathetically understanding the role of the other. 
"Otherwise, in my belief, nothing of great significance is going to happen in solving a problem that will take genera­tions, at best, to work out The solu­tion must include not only the provision of housing but must simultaneously develop and implement comprehensive programs in education, development of manpower, public health, recreation and race relations. 
"We must look at the total dty and make a frontal attack on its problems as a whole and coordinate or eliminate piecemeal approaches." 
He knows this will cost money and great ingenuity and he believes "the job will (or should) include universities such as Notre Dame, which must tool up to produce skilled manpower to enter the field and take meaningful leadership in urban affairs and de­velopment" 

I am most appreciative of the cooperation 1 have letxived from those who have completed and Tctumcd thur confidential questionnaire and from the classmates who are assisting in the financing of the survey. Our president BERNIE GARBER is directing an effective publicity program to pro­mote attendance with the aid of BILL DWYER who is obtaining excellent cooperation from others from whom you will receive correspondence dur­ing the next few months. ED QUINN is do* ing his usual good job on local arrangements. JIM COONEY and JOHN THURIN and their staff in the Alunuu Office are giving us excellent cooperation. 
We have already heard from a ntunber of class­mates who will attend their first Reunion in June, such as my old roommate JOE BRANNON from Phoenix, Ariz., HAROLD MILLER from Pomona, Calif., BILLY WOOD from Santa Fe. N.M., and BILL HIHILEY from Springfield, Mass. I have assurances from JACK CANIZARO and GENE O'BRIEN that TROY BONNER of Jackson, Klass. will be there for his first Reunion. Incidentally, Troy visited Gene this summer in Minnesota. 
I have also heard from a number of those who have attended past reunions that tlicy will be there, including ART DENCHFIELD of Coral Gables, Fla., KEN POWER, Commissioner of the Board of Elections in Rochester, N.Y. and ART MILLER who reports that our 40-ycar Reunion is already becoming the main topic when he talks to MIKE HOGAN, BERNIE SCHUH, WAYNE BUSHMAN and FRANK McCARTHY in Fort Wayne, Ind. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, who has two sons with him in lus shipping service business in Port Arthur, Tex., will return for the Reunion. Christie saw ELMER WYNNE recently in Colorado. Elmer handles labor rcla^ tions for Safeway Stores and is leaving Denver to go to San Francisco where he will have charge of the Pacific coast district. 
I appreciated hearing from Esther and MIKE HOGAN from Ireland and from Kay and JIM AIXAN from Honolulu where they were attend­ing the American Bar Assn. meeting. I talked to BILL ARMIN when he n-as in Chicago to attend the funeral of BOB RUPPE '31. Bill had seen MAX GAUTHIER at Expo 67. LOU NORMAN has retired from General Motors aftcr 32 years of service. JOHN RICKORD saw GEORGE CRONGEYER, JOE KANE and BER­NIE GARBER at a ND Club meeting in New Yoric recently. 
How about adding a note on your Christmas cards .uiviung dassrtutes that you will sec them at the '28 Class Reunion on June 7, 8 and 9? Also marie your 1968 calendar for these dates. 
LARRY STAUDER 
ENGINEERING BLDG. 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 

1S2S 
Yes, it is true, JOE DAUTREMONT and hU wife, Judy, were back for the Southern Cal game and for the after-game Class get-together as were Generieve and BILL WILBUR. These CE class­mates have been in contact frequently but it was the first meeting for Judy and Gene. Other viators were MICKEY McMAHON, our Class VP from New Orleans; Mildred and ALBERT ZOELLER of Hammond, and Ruth and Class VP JOE WHALEN of Des Moines. JOE LENI­HAN our Class pres. sent his regards and best wnshes — and his regrots. He wasn't able to break the ticket barrier and faces the same dilemma for the post-Michigan State gct-togcthcr. Others who attended include Rev. LOUIS THORNTON, CSC who had the pleasure of be­ing host for two of his nephews and their wives; BOB VOGELWEDE ivas accompanied by his son Rev. Bob, Jr who shared their time between the '29crs and younger son Tom who is a senior at ND. 
Class Chaplain Rev. OTIS WINCHESTER had the pleasure of the company of a seminary class­mate. Father Otey and Dorothy and CLETE SCHNEIDER and Class photographer FRANCIS MEYER and his wife, also Ahna and GAYLORD HAAS as it^ell as Dorothy and JIM DIGAN were back to share their fellowship with the new­comers and the "regulars." Margaret and FRANK FLYNN were again here from New York. The Oliver Hotel has been demolished to make way for new multi-story Pick Motel. The Flynns inade Randall's Inn their headquarters. Dorothy PLUNKETT will have most of her family back for the Michigan State game. Mar­garet and LARRY STAUDER and LARRY II '67 now at Purdue had the MAURICE STAU-DERs '41 of Danville, III. here for the weekend. 
Just a paragraph of explanation. The "mail-
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
ing list" enclosed with the get-together notice is that which ivas used last Year. When the Alumni Office offered to send this mailing to the entire active list it invited confusion. The list is a compilation of those who have attended recent after game get-togethers. It was a gimmick to stimulate aUendance. It helped, but the grape­vine tells us that a number of '29ei3 who saw the game had commitments which conflicted with the Class function. 
Before we finish the Southern Cal story (we won't mention the second half) wc'U return to the DAUTREMONTs. JOE has been doing engi­neering for the past eight years for Strong, Strong and Strong Architects. They specialize in building schools and hospitals. Daughter JUDY was graduated from St. Mary's in '60 and re­ceived her MS in '61 from Notre Dame. Kathleen is presently a senior at St. Mary's. Bill and Joan are in high school at Lima. Their residence is 2205 Odcma, Lima 45806. Joe's brother Rev. JI.M DAUTREMONT CSC ordained in 1936 has taught at Notre Dame HS in Nilcs, III. but is now in Santiago, Chile. By the way, the Alumni Office has furnished me with one copy of the revised mailing list for the Class. My former list is about four years old and quite out-of-date. Fully 20 percent of the '29cn have had address or status changes in past four years. You will receive an up-to-date list before the 1969 Reunion. 
The yellow insert cards in the recent ALUMNUS have yielded this news: From TOM JORDEN's son, *'Since receiving my father's mail and read­ing your column, I thought I would %vrite and let you know of his whereabouts. After being in the paint business for 36 years he went into 
im 
BEVERE PLXJNKETT 
O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 
DICK DONOGHUE is Ii\^ng in San Diego and commutes each week to Litton Industries, Inc. advanced marine tech. div.. Culver City, Calif, for his work. Three boys in school keep his wife Mary and him busy. He enjoys the ALUMNUS, but would like to get some direct word from TOM K.\SSIS, FRANK LEDERMANN. CHOUSE LONG, CHUCK BOHRMAN. Dick is out to get FRANK WALLACE'S new book after watch­ing him on the Today Show with Hugh Downs 

- and Joe Garagiola. He wants to be remembered to FathcR THORNTON, DOREMUS, LANGE and HOLDERTTH. 
Mrs. Geraldine FLINN of Seattle wrote a spe­dal note of thanks to the Class of '30 when she was assured that the class members would re­member her husband JOHN in their prayers fol­lowing his death on Sept. U. HARLEY R. TRU m died Aug. 4 of a heart attack. He was owner-operator of the Truitt Drug Co. in Watseka, 
III. He vfos past pres. of the Watseka School Board. He is survived by his wife Helen, a son Robert who graduated from Loyola U., a daughter Marycllen now a senior at tfie U. of Illinois. 

FR.ANK D. HAAHLTON of Dodgeville, Wis. has been serving as pres. of the State Bar Assn. of Wisconsin an organization of 7700 lawyers. ED ARTHUR wrote me early this fall that he and his wife were off for a nice European holi­day. They had just bid good-bye to their three children who were off to college — Kathleen to Fordham for master's work in English, Nancy to Lemoyne Col. for her senior year, and Chris to Boston Col. as a national merit scholarship \\-inner for his freshman year. Because Ed was to be in Innsbruck, he wanted the address of his old roommate LOU HASLEY. But I had to write him that Lou has been back here from Innsbruck for tw%> years, and has resumed his work in the English dept. 
J.ACK CASSIDY wrote a couple notes early this fall from his home in Ridgefield, Conn. He is getting on well though he had suffered a double loss in his family within one year. The JIM FRIEL family sent a note of appreciation to the 1930 Class for the many prayers and ex­
JAMES T. DOYLE IS67 RIDGE AVE., AFT. 306 EVAMSTON, ILL. 60201 

ISIl 
After a pleasant summer and many of you at­tending football games I am sure there will be plenty of news for future ALUHNUS columns. 
Among classmates attending the Notre Dame Club of Chicago golf outing at Elmhurst Country Club last August were TOM COUGHLIN, JACK SCHMITT, JOHN MAHONEY, BERT METZ-
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
civil service in Dec. '65, Newark Air Stewm, 
Newark, Ohio. Earlier t ^ year he volunteered 
his services in Vietnam as a construction accoun­
tant and left the country Blay 25 for one year. 
He is in Saigon and wtnlld welcome any letters. 
His address is THOMAS J. JORDEN, OICC/R N 
Code 331, AFO San Frandsco 96214." 
From JOE KRAKER, Akron, Ohio: "Wm ic­
tum for Southern Cal. and Mirhigan St. games. 
My No. 3 son, Jerry, is now a junior at ND . 
He will graduate on my 4Qth annivcrniy. We 
have two older sons both priests in the Cleve­
land diocese — Rev. John is a prof, at Boxromeo 
Seminary in Wickliffe, Ohio and Rev. Joseph is 
at St. Jude's in Elyria. We have t«n> manied 
daughters and 1 am grandfather seven times." 
From Father OTEY WINCHESTER: "I talked 
with JOE FRIEL and Mrs. Jim Friel this morn­
ing in N.Y. and N.J. I was shocked to learn of 
JIM FRIEL's death." From the Alumiu Office 
we have news of the death May 29 of WILLIAM 
H. BUilNS. His family may be addressed c/o Mayor William F. Bums, 3 Shelley Road, Ken­dall Park, N.J. 08824. We wish to express the sympathy of the Class to his family and to assure them that he will be remembered in our prayers. From JOHN GILTINON, Chicago: "This wiU inform you of the July 27 death of GEORGE T. RATEGAN who Uved at 2410 E. 77th St., Chi­cago with his sister Bemice. Please remember me to Father Dorcmus." The Class joins with George's many friends in expressing our sympathy and the promise of our prayers. 
JACK FARR, Baldwin, N.Y. expresses the situation of many of lu: "No one regrets more my inability to join my classmates on Oct. 14 than 
pressions of sympathy offered at the time of Jim's death, July 25. I am sure he will be re­membered by all his classmates. Mn . Nora MCDONAL D of LOS Angeles wrote as about the death of her husband JIM who £e d suddenly of a heart attack, April 17. His four children and Mrs. McDonald ask that Jim's classmates remem­ber him in their prayers. 
CHET ASH^L4N wrote that things are gcnns well with him and the Little Chair Co. be operates down in Morristown, Tenn. For many years he worked hard in building and getting established the parish church that now thrives in his home town. As aluays it was great news to get a letter from Judge TOM McDOUGAL of Antigo, Wis. He is recuperating very nicciT from some serious surgery in February and he probably has not missed many turns on that bench he has held so many years. We have expected him to visit in South Bend because his son (an ND graduate] works for a telension station here. In the last election Tom was chosen for another six-year term and without oppontion. 
Dr. ED YORKE is on the staff of the state mental hospital in Camarillo, Cal. and has de> velopcd a new hypothesis on schizophrenia that will help general practitioners understand how to treat these people. Ed had an article pub­lished on this very subject in the journal Distasts of the Nervous System. H. LOUIS STETTLER was honored some time ago as Man of the Month by the Monarch Life Ins. Co. of Chicago. This means he was the top producer in the nation for the company for one month. He is also a trainer in the Chicago office. FRANK SOWA is now pres. of the Consulting Chemists and Chemical Engineers, Inc. an international or­ganization with 102 members and a combined staff of 4500 scientists and engineers. 
GUS BONDI was on hand for the big kick-off at Notre Dame for the SUMMA drive. He appears ready to suit up but said that he was partially retired from his work with Metropolitan Ins. I suspect he wants some extra time for philosophical contemplation and perhaps is pre­paring the writing of his memoirs. At the last N D Club Presidents meeting on the Campus it was good to see WALT BERNARD from Celina, Ohio and BILL MILLER from Jackson, Mitf. They both appeared in great spirits and ready to do a big job on the SUMMA project. 

GER, JIM MULVANEY and JIM DOYLE. There is no record of any of us winning a golf prize. CLARENCE PUTTER had a note from ED SHEERAN vacationing in Hawaii. Ed was hack on Campus with TOM ASHE in September in connection with SUMMA. KELLY POWERS '32 visited Clarence Futter during the June Reunion weekend. Also heard from was BUD GEIS, safety dir. for Flintkote Co., Los Angeles, Calif. 
FRANK BUTORAC, retired from the Navy. 

I do. The fiaaadil iniMun ef naias five ckal­diea and jiosiiiiag iU iritli a oaOege eJhcifiim does aot leave modi leeway for a social Etc. My two youagest aie senior and Jaaior senieUiwely at Notre Osae. Bat I am dented «B ND and an it stands for. Hope to see yon all max year." And tnm CHABI.IF. COLTON. Taaatoa, Mai*.: "On Jnae 3 daughter Charlotte Anne was isiriril to CHARLES IflJMHY '63 at the I—amlatr Cooceptioa dnndi in Tanntoa. To make it a coaplete Notre Dame weddiag t k best man was Charlotte's brother John '70 and Kev. TOM SULUVAN CSC '48 married the eoople. Lt. and Ua. Vhaptj are Ihnag ia Newpoet, KJ. My irife and I and the newiywedt expect to attend the Navy game — hope ta see soaK '29en thete." 
KARL MARTERSTECK noir rcndes at 2739 
S.W. Rstton CL , Fkntland, Oit. 97201. He writes: "It any oC yen feOows are oat tUs m y 1 can asrare them a warm welcome at the Mar­teistecks'. I came out here a year ago to cstdb­lisb Great Lakes Dredge and Do d Go. on die West Coast. We are known as the Fadfic Dir. We see Rer. NORTON CSC and Rer. CHARI.F.S HARRIS often at V. of Portland. Yoong KARL '56 lives in Washugton, D C They have five children jncfading oar first granddantfiter- bora in Hay. Oar dao^ter Teiry and bnuty of two boys Eve in Fhibdelphia. Her hndiaad ART McMANUS attended N D bat finished at Holy Cross in NROTC and is a Navy flyer now teach­ing at Pennsyhrania. I saw CLETE SCHNEIDER in Cleveland recently." Karl iGdn't say this, bat Clete (fid, "They have named a new mg far Karl — just another hazard of succca." 
Prayers £rom the Class of 'SO are asked for ED CONNOR who <ficd Februaiy, 1967; for JOSEPH TDIUN who c&d on Fd>. 8; and for Mary Motz, wife of JOHN HOTZ who died in JawH aiy. ANDY ASIAN wrote that he had a c ^ from Larry Crooin in Dayton cariy this year when Andy was recuperating firom a heart attack. He was getting on well and ewpccted to be oat at Notre Dame for a ball game in the bSL 
TIM TOOMEY has sent me several items of news about Class memben. I wiU quote or para­phrase some of his letters: "BILL WALSH was (mt in Vietnam early in the year for the Navy dept. to make a survey of trampoftation-siq»pBes problems there. JOHN V. MORAN's am KEVIN '67 was one of the senior managers at Notre Dune for the 1966 championship team. In mid-August I attended a requiem B&us offered by Father JIM RIZER for aO the deceased 1930 classmates. Enclosed is a copy of a good news­paper inece done by Father Rher entided 'Appeal to Atheists, Agnostics Examined.' 
"Last week I attended the wedding of the daughter of JOE FRIEL '29. The widow of Jim Friel (rf our Class was present and we bad' a long chat about Jim's great loyalty for Notre Dame. LARRY CRONIN has been ill and after some surgery b recuperatii^ at has home in Ehmra, N.Y. While m Washington he was visited by BILL WALSH, BOB COONEY, JOHN MORAN and myaelL DICK SULUVAN's beaid has certainly been ^otUghted tins year. The "fringe" gets front page treatment in an article by our friend JOHN LAUGHUN in Omr Smmdmf Visitor's *Mr. Sullivan of Notre Dame.' Then the magaiine INSIGHT focuses attentioa on the Okl Guard profs at Notre Dame. If a Van-D ^ transforms character and beauty to soch hdghts, I think VU discard the Gillette for a spen." 
There were many more lines in the Toomcy letters but they concerned football tickets, adnus-Bon and rejection of students and Urn's social­izing %nth the hierarchy. BILL SIGLER a recent Alumnus came by the dean's ijSBct last wedi and reported that hb fither JACK is in good health and still linng in Omaha. Concfanfing thn {necc, I want to say that I appredate the many notes sent me in recent months aboat the dot h of Mrs. Plunkett. I am very gratefoL 
is living in Fortsmoath, Va., and in « lecent trip to AtbnU and Jadoonville saw TED TWO­MEY, who lives in Jaclcsonville and is in the advertising bonnesi. He had iGniier with thca and talked to FRED RAHAIM. Frank pbns oa attending the Gco ^ Tech and Miami games, so 1 should have further news fatm him. He is planning on a worid cruise fior next year aad then retirement in San Diego, Cahf. CARL A. GAENSSLEN Bobe, Idaho retired May 12 tnm the Dept. o( the Inlnior with whidi he had 
23 

been associated as an engineer for 31 ^"cars. His 
son ROBERT received his degree from Notre 
Dame in June, 1965. PAUL BOTT formerly of 
White Plains, N.Y. is now living at 220 S. 
Maple Ave., Oak Park, III. 60302. LOUIS 
GODOY sends greetings from Madrid, Spain 
where he spent several weeks tliis summer. 
During July tlirec classmates were called ta 

their eternal rt:wards. CLIFFORD L. FISHER, 
BOB RUPPE and VIN'CENT BUSCH. Just a 
week ago I received a letter from DON MAC­
DOXALD, telling of the death of JACK L.-\UX 
in September. Jack had been associated with 
General Motors in Flint ever since graduation. 
He is survived by his widow and four children. 
Please remember our deceased classmates in your 
pravers. 
KEN sees CHARLIE MILTNER who operates 

the Caberfac ski resort canoe Hvery scr\"ice when he 
is not practicing law. TOM MONAHAN will 
probably have many '3Iers \-isiting his Areola 
farm after the IlHnois-Notre Dame game and 
I am looking fon%"ard to a newsy letter from 
him. I would appreciate news of any meetings 
during the football weekends this fall. LA\V­
im 
FLORENCE J. McO^RTHY 
6 RIVER RD. 
SCARSDALE, N.Y. 10583 

There is one letter from JOE KENNY I would like to print in its entirety in that it expresses something I think we all owic JIM COLLINS: "Dear Flo: TED HALPIN and I enjoyed tlie 35th Reunion so much wc have agreed not to miss another so long as wc both shall live. 
"You may be interested to know I am retiring as exec vp of Paragon Electric Co., Two Rivers, Wis. at year-end and am going into business as a management consultant. .Areas of specializa­tion will be \'ariablc budget control, managerial accounting, forecasting, planning incentives, profit sliaring and others. This news may not seem to you to amount to much but is more than I ever gave Jim Collins. I hereby publicly apologize to Jim and resolve to do better by you in the future. Regards, Joe." 
Also I had a letter from Dr. JOHN M. KEANEY JR who wote that HENRY B. AS­ALAN MD has just been named president-elect of tlic Kentucky State Alcdical Assn. and will take office next September. It is the highest office in tlic state an MD can hold. Congratu­lations, Hank. Dr. John mentioned his talking at tlic Iowa game with iLARUS POPE ex *32. 
E\idcntally the natives are restless as wc have notice of many moves: EUGENE HOWREY left Fairfield, Iowa for Rt. 6, Box 47, Crawfords-
im 
JOHN A. HO\T, JR. GILLESPIE & O'CONNOR 342 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. I00I7 We learned ^\ith deep regret that JACK J.AEGER died in late August after a long illness. At the time of his death Jack and his family were re­siding in the suburban Riverdale area in New York. To his ^v•ifc and family we extend our sj-mpathy and prayers. "In Paradisum Dcducant Tc Angeli" 
At tliis writing, tlie OcL-Nov, issue of the ALUMNUS has been in circulation for the better part of three weeks. To date we have received only four correspondence cards from Class mem­bers. These cards arc now carried as inserts in some editions of the ALUMNUS. We would wel­come news and views. 
A quick glance at the calendar indicates that our 35th Reunion is but six months a^vay. CHARLEY CONLEY our Reunion chairman would welcome suggestions for the Reunion Weekend. He can be reached at 100 East Turn-bull Ave., Haverto%%n, Pa. 19083. 
JIM GARRIGAN of Upper ifontdair, N.J., spent the simimer in Germany celebrating the receipt of a master's degree in administration from Montclair State Col. and his daughter Jean's BS in anthropology from Harvard. Jim pridefully talks about his daughter's accomplish­ments at Harvard, but makes no reference 
REUNION '68 
RENCE A. O'LEARY of San Frandsco was 
gmnted the Au-ard of Merit from the American 
Society for Testing & Materials for his contri­
butions and role in ASTM area national meetings. 

Dr. O'Lcary received his award at the Boston 
meeting. ROY BAILIE's son BRAD '56 was 
ordained a priest June 11 in Hollywood, Caltf. 
FRANK LEAHY has joined the WBBM-TV 
sports staff and has an analysis and commentary 
on the 10 pm newscast. His articles are also 
appearing in the Chicago Daily News. Word 
^vas received from tlie widow of R. M. MAR­
SHALL, tliat he had passed away after a lonff 
illness June 24, 1967. He had retired as engineer 
of bridge design for the State of Florida after 30 
years' service. MATT GARRIGAN writes from 
Detroit and plans on attending several games. 
He saw AL\RTIN WIDER and JIM McQUAID, 
JERRY GAUL, BOB MASSEY and CLARENCE 
DURBIN during the year. HENRY KOPEK has 
recovered from a siege of illness. 
I hope the next few montlis will bring news 

of meetings of classmates on Campus at the fall 
football games. Every bit of news helps. My 
best wishes to all for a happy holiday season* 
ville, Ind. 47933; MARTIN HECKARD from Beaver Dam, Ky. to 53 Park Plaza Dr., Canton, 
III. 61520. HARRY MOSS has taken a big jump from Albany, N.Y. to c/o U.S. Consulate, Rua Padre Joao Manuel 20, Sao Paulo, S.P. Brazil (so help me, that's what it say's). Write, Harry, and tell us about it. And Rev. GEORGE BAXTER CSC has left St. Pius Tenth Parish in Granger, Ind. to return to Notre Dame. He is at the Holy Cross House, Box S, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
We are sad to report that Mrs. ROBERT N. 

LEPPERT, 1246 Sonoma Drive, Altadena, Cal. 
notified the ALUMNUS office last summer of the 
death of her husband Bob. A Mass for his in­
tention was celebrated at the Campus on Sept. 2. 
Just heard that JOE PETRITZ has been 

elected VP of the newly formed pr firm of 
Beveridge, Penny & Bennett Inc. — a merger of 
Bcveridge Organization Inc., Chicago and Penny 
& Bennett Inc., Los Angeles. Offices will be in 
Chicago, Los Angeles and ?CYC. Also that Arch­
bishop PAUL H.ALLINAN of Atlanta was 
awarded an honorary' doctorate of humane letters 
by Western Reser\'e U. on June 14. 
A bit of pergonal ncu's: our No. 1 gal Sally is getting married De c 16. That leaves one to go. Our son Tim Avith American Airlines in Hartford, Conn, has three youngsters. 
That's all for now. Do please send news along. 
whether or not it took him 33 years to get his master's. 
HANK PRENDERGAST from West Orange, N.J., visited the campus in June with his wife and three of his five sons. His first visit in 30 years. One of Hank's boys is at the MaryknoU Seminary in Illinois. Wc look forward to seeing Hank at our upcoming Reunion. Rev. JAMES 
J. LE.AHY CSC has been transferred from Port­land U. to Holy Cross House at ND. Dr. JOHN PICK has relocated in Milwaukee and now resides at 2419 N. Whal Ave., Mihraufccc, Wis. 53211. 
CHARLES CONLEY, while in Chicago recently for the funeral of his aunt, visited ^rith Judge AL\URICE LEE. Fr. JIM DONNELLY flew up to Chicago to preside at tlic funeral Atass for Charley's aunt. While in Miami for the ND-Miami game, the Conlcys will be at the Carillon Hotel along witli LEO HODEL. JIM BOYLE, whom we've Iicard very little of in recent years, practices law in ^liami. 
BERNIE (MIKE) DeLAY, president of the DeLay First National Bank, in Norfolk, Neb., and recently elected Grand Knight of the Elks, saw several classmates while visiting in Chicago recently. Both his boys are in the service, one in Vietnam and the other in Labrador. 
CHARLEY FARRIS, having concluded his work on the renowned St. Louis Urban Rencw:d Program, is now president of Urban Programming Corp. of America with offices at 1921 S. Brent­wood Blvd., Brcntivood, Mo. 63144. He and ROLAND DAMES will be at our Reunion. 
GEORGE ROHRS and his wife Jean were on the campus for the freshman-parents convocia­tion. His son Chris has just started his freshman year. During liis visit George saw ART LAVERY who is in the electrical business in Van Nuys, Calif.; Fr. LLOYD TESKE, rtrctor of Fisher HaU and Doc BOB DONOVAN, of Concord, Mass. who was visiting the Radiation Lab on campus 
in connection with the Army's Materials Research 
Agency and the AEC. 
OSCAR ZOSS, in New York on business from Atlanta, called many of his classmates. He is waiting for the Georgia Tech game. Father FRANK G.ASTLAND CSC, is now director of John XXIII Institute, a catechetical centre for 400 boys and girls in the Bennington, Woodford & Pownal areas in Vermont. He is in residence at Sacred Heart Parish, 307 School St., Benning­ton, Vt. 05201. Comments of many — a fine spot for a wonderful guy. We wish him Well. 
According to ED ECKERT our Class president, JIM COONEY our new Alumni Secretary- will spend some time with our Class at Reunion. In accepting our invitation Jim wrote: "Succeeding JIM ARMSTRONG is a consideration fraught with trepidation, challenge and honor." To him, cur good wishes. 
Be on the lookout for ED ECKERT's Reunion Class letter. He is planning on contacting all Class members several times between now and June. Spare him some help and assistance. CHUCK JASKWHICH has accepted the chore of representing our Class in the Mid-West and Dr. JAMES DONEHY will represent us on the campus. Those on the West Coast should con­tact CHUCK HAFRON at the U. of San Fran­cisco, Cal. 94117, about transportation arrange­ments. 
im 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 
523 W. HILLSDALE 
SAN MATEO, CAL. M403 
WILLUM F. RYAN 
1620 E. WASHINGTON AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 

Since the last issue communications Iiavc improved considerably. Several '35cr5 responded to my en­treaties to provide ammunition, for wliicli thank them. 
JIM KELLY wTote from Rocknllc Centre with the info tliat he is in the fund-raising and PR business. He and his wife Kay have two adopted children, a boy, 16 and a girl, 13. Jim has yet to attend a Reunion but, hopefully he will be 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
Congrats 
Timothy P. Galvin '16 was honored as Hammond, Ind.'s Outstanding Citi­zen and admitted to the city's Hall of Fame. A lay trustee of the Univer­sity since 1946 and former president of the Alumni Assn., he was cited for his leadership in civic and Catholic community affairs. 
Timothy J. Murphy "24, who this fall retired from his post as Connecticut state commissioner of public works, was honored recently by state officials for 

( "handling the job in outstanding fash­ion." Former Gov. Ribicoff cited him in the Congressional Record and Gov. John Dempsey praised his leader­ship during a period which witnessed great expansion in projects undertaken by the commission. 
present at the 1970 affair. LUKE KELLY also came through with a letter. Luisc is living in Albany, N.Y. and has been in the field of social work for tlic past 30 years. He believes in con­tinuing education having received a degree (mas­ter of social work) in '63 from Sj'racusc U. Luke has been a faithful attendee at Reunions and expects to keep the 1970 date also. 
Several took advantage of the yellow" card en­closed with the last ALUMNUS to drop us brief notes: BILL CASA2Z.A has his o\\-n moving and storage business in Troy, N.Y. and definitely plans to make the nc-xt Reunion. BILL FAR­RELL of Grand Rapids has a son who is cur­rently a junior at ND. Two long-lost *35ers from my home state joined together to write us: 
LARRY PALKOVIC 301 MECHANIC ST. ORANGE, N.J. 07050 
1936 
Once again Editor JOHN THURIN '59 is drawing a sharp notice to all secretaries for oxir date line. To all intents and purposes sheer laziness makes this problem an almost impossible task. The problem is how to get started imme­diately, which is the key to the whole solution, and keep going. So here goes: PETER NEMETH lost his bid for nomination as City Judge on the Democrat ticket in the South Bend primary. THOMAS ADAMSON JR has been named exec, editor of J)airy ® ^^^ Cream Field a national trade magazine. WILLIAM D.ARCY has been appointed technical field ser\'icc rep. for Hol-
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. BOX 275, LAKE LENAPE ANDOVER, N.J. 07821 
1937 
Your secretary finally made a So. Cal. game at ND. ifadc a hurried trip with No. 1 son Kevin for interview, etc. The two famous FOLEYS of our Class were also there. BILL of House Ju­diciary Comm., Washington, DC with sons Kevin and Dick (broken wrist included). This group stayed with JERRY CL.AEYS who had to move 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
Walter C Houghton "26 was hon­ored this summer on the occasion of his 25th anniversary with Calvert Dis­tillers Company. The advertising man­ager of Calvert's, he lives in Mamaro­neck, N.Y. 
Charles J. Ducey MA '28 was knight­ed by Pope Paul VI in the Order of St. Gregory the Great for his contri­bution to the Catholic Church. The deputy supreme knight of the Knights of Colimibus first joined the K of C while a student at the University. He has served on the national level since 1928 and since that time has held in­creasingly responsible positions with the Kof C. 
GEORGE "MUGGSIE" McGRATH is a guid­
ance counselor at Ware HS and HARRY GAF­
NEY is dir. of athletics at Bryan-Stratton School 
in Boston. (Is Bryan-Stratton still a girls' school, 
Harry? If so, you must be having fun!) 
TOM HILS is in Kissimmee, Fla. and plans 
to be at the Miami game. He is in the PR busi­
ness. BILL BERNARD is an MD in Spring­
field, 111. and mentioned that he was just elected 
VP of the Filing Fhj'sicians Assn. Bill gets back 
to the Campus often and recently attended a 
retreat there. TOM OWEN who has been a 
manufacturer's rep in Chattanooga for some 
years sent a newspaper clipping from a Memphis 
paper containing a picture of our former cheer­
leader, JERRY FOLEY. Jerry is a sports pro­
land-Suco Color Co. Div. of Chemetron Corp. He will contact manufacturers of solvent type print­ing inks in a technical capacity. He and his wife have five children and live at 1226 Euna Vista Ct., Holland, Mich. 
Aho>-5 sad to report deaths of NICHOLAS CONNOR JR and wife of JACK WITAKER. All Class members are asked to remember both in their Mass and prayers. 
Received a nice letter from WILLIAM "BILL" SAFF.A who is now located in Tulsa, Okla., 350 East 32, Apt. 20. Bill wishes to be remembered by all the gang. I have often corresponded with Bill over the years since graduation and we often reminisce on our former college days as the best and happiest days of our life. Visited Dr. GEORGE MURPHY and his family in Glenn 
out his family to take care of the invaders from the East. Bill is working hard to get the basket­ball team as No. 1 after some poor years. He reports JACK WALSH is available for corre­spondence to the secretary. PAUL FOLEY, our rep on the SUMM.A program as head of the committee on PR Events, ^vas in attendance at the meetings in the Continuing Education Bldg. and managed to find time to see .the game before flying right back to the big city. PAUL has decided that he is about the only member of '37 

Dr. Henry B. Asman '32 was elected president-elect of the Kentucky Medi­cal Association. A graduate of the University of Louisville School of Medi­cine, Dr. Asman has served as vice-president and secretary of the state medical association and has held offices in niunerous other medical societies. 
J. Marshall McAveney '33 recently was promoted to immigration officer with the US Consulate Office in Ger­many. In his new post he will be re­sponsible for immigration offices in most European countries. He has been with the Dept. of Justice for 27 years and most recently handled investiga­tions and deportation of racketeers. 
Frank M. Sandera '34 has been elect­ed a corporate vice-president of Auto­matic Retailers of America which di­rects ARA food service systems. Prior to joining ARA in 1965, he was gen­eral manager for the Canteen Corp. His former position with ARA was that of Southern area general manager. 
moter in Memphis and was picttuxd with several of the St. Louis Cardinal players at a "Memphis weekend" in St. Louis for baseball fans. The clipping mentioned that Jerry has three children, two boys and a girl. Tom Owen hardly ever misses a Reunion and we hope to see both him and Jerry at the next one. 
MATT S.AGARTZ informed us of the death of his brother JOHN in June. John started with the Class of '35 but did not finish vnth us. Class condolences were extended to Mrs. Sagartz and his son. John is the fourth member of the Class of '35 who has passed away this year. 
My sincere thanks once again to the '35ers who 
responded to our plea for help. Keep them 
coming, fellow's. 
Ridge. I certainly surpiised them by my viat. George is very busy with his practice aiid does extensive surgery. 
One Sunday last Ai^ust we made a trip to North Wildwood, N.J. to see DALE PILLARS and his family. We had a very congenial visit re-hashing old times. North Wildwood is noted for its sea resort located in the southern tip of 
N.J. near Cape May. It has wide beach areas and extensive facilities for \'acationcrs. Dale and his wife cater to \'acationci5 renting their twx> ground floor apts. during the summer months. Anyone wishing for a real sea resort vacation contact Dale in North Wildwood. 
Nothing further to report. I only hope I re­ceive more and interesting news imia all of you for further issues. 
who hasn't a son named "KeWn." TOM CAR­NEY had meetings on SUMALA and the Alumni Board managing to make it there on Friday. We checked on Father NED JOYCE and the last report stated he was returning firom Arizona. 
Lunch at the Indiana Club (used to be off-limits) where we met KARL KING who reported that the Alumni Ofi5ce was finally digging into our treasury so that Wc are now in the red. Minor bills keep coming in and they finally depleted the account or the next thing to it. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
Prof. LEE FLATLEY also makes the lU Qub and again thanked our Class for the party in June. The hanker from the West Coast, GOR­DON MURPHY, just completed a visit at Lake Lcnape. He is touring the East Coast for a \'acation this year. He is still single and keeps Wyoming in his heart, \\ith California second. MURPHY w-as glad that he finally made a Class Reunion, along wt h PARKER SULLIVAN who has gone back to work by now lining up more 
im 
BURNIE BAUER 
1139 WESTERN AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46625 
Back after a thrcc-ivcek trip in October with my wife Helens to Europe ^vhere we stayed with families in France, Spain, Monaco and Rome as part of a CFM exchange program. I found cards from Dr. DAN MONAGHAN, JACK CLIFFORD, TOM SHEILS and JOE HE.\EBRY and letters from GREGG KEEGAN and J.\CK DOYLE — wonderful homecoming. Guess I should leave more often so I'll hear from more of you. 

DAN MONOGHAN's wife also wrote saying Dan is commanding ofHccr of an c^'actiation hospital in Korea until next summer. Before leaving Dan met JACK LUNGREN's son JOHN '66 at Medi­cal Field Service School, Ft. Sam Houston. Dan said TOM TIERNEY *40 is now directing the nation's medicare program at DEW. JACK CLIFFORD, brother of JERRY CLIFFORD and '38 doubles handbaU champ with BUNNY Mc-CORMICK, merely said he'd be at the 30th Reunion next June. Great! Bring the rest of those Chicago lads. Jack. 
TOM SHEILS also promised to show up next June, particularly since he missed the 25th Re­union because of surgery and wants "HOOK" KERWIN and GEORGE FITZPATRICK to be there too. He also wants TOM ATKINS to write him at his home at 17250 Paithcnia St., Northridge, Calif. JOE HENEBRY, after 20 years in Paz^ Ridge, III. is now gen. mgr. of Butler Aviation, Friendship International Airport, Baltimore, Md. and wants anyone fl>-ing that way to look him up, or is it down? 
GREGG KEEGAN "married, no children, one scbnauzer, over^veight and mellowing" in his owti words is in his 26th year of trjing jury cases in St. Louis. When sleep comes bard, he says, he tries counting all the names that fKXupied Carroll Hall in '34. Wow! Better come to the Reunion to refresh your memory, Gregg. Gregg says he has seen JACK LUNDGREN on trips to California, also CHUCK SWEENEY before he 
JOSEPH E. H.ANNAN 
1S04 GREENWOOD DR. 
SOUTH BEND, DJD. 46614 

19S9 
"All's quiet" «Tote FRANK LAUCK recently from Indianapolis, Ind., and that neatly sums up YOUR '39 column for the past two issues. Frank did inject a point I should have covered long ago. CHARLES "CHICK" RAUSCH's lovely partner Idarge pens the Lauclcs periodically. This humble person here and now pleads vAUi all the **Margcs** to heed the call . . . and I promise not to divulge any confidences. . . . PULEEESEE, Gals. .. . So much for the deep knee bends. 
JOSEPH B. LEWIS is sales sen-ice mgr. with 

B. F. Goodrich Co., Staten Island, N.Y. Joe and Caryl have two children, their daughter a junior at Miami U., Oxford, Ohio and a son in the grades. Joe also reports his brother JOHN *41 lives in Washington, DC. (Not much o£ a writer either, said Joe.) 
A long-delayed note from JAMES J. RAAF from La Paz, Bolivia via Hicksville, N.Y. (you've got to be kidding!) via BURNIE BAUER '38 via Alumni Office and somehow misplaced by my "gal Friday." Jim, Angela and family, Angie 17, Barbara 14, Marie Elena II, Patricia and Pamela 9, and Susan 8, were stateside last April-May, traveling via Dodge "motor home." Jim b now heading up Grace interests In Bolivia, returning to LaPaz after stints in Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Ecuador. Jim can be reached c/o Grace y Cia (Bolivia) S.A., Apartado 832, La Faz, Bolivia. (St. IklazT's Col. endorses your kind of pec^c.) 
Game time in Mrami, Fla. saw the JULIAN TONSMEIREs, JAMES McGOLDRlCKs and JOSEPH SULLIVANs (Apple Joe) according to JOHN K. TONSMEIRE '68. Thanks, John, for taking up the cause. G. ROBERT CAMPBELL MD, 111 Maplewood Dr., Beaver, Pa. introduced son Robert J. Class of '70 which leads directly telephone companies. 
Again I wish to acknowledge the '*OU Canon Cocker" that arrived at Ncuwlon intact. This fellow SIEGFRIED lives up to hu word. Of course, he has also written all of us another note reminding us of our obligation to the University. Keep plugging, BOBBY. Letters are mighty few again. Don't forget the promises made at Reunion. Follow-up from JOE SANCULIUS asking for address of MILT KATZ and also re-
retired from officiating pro football, would Ukc to hear from ED WRAPP now teaching at Chicago U. and says say hello to £ D CRONIN and "OLD CANNON CROCKER, too." 
JACK DOYLE'S letter from 157 Gantobury Dr., Ramsey, N.J. was more sombre, asking for NEL­SON VOGEL's widow's address. JACK SCOTT sent a note that should knock off the years for all of us, announcing the birth of John A. Scott Jr July 20 in Lafayette, Ind. where Jade runs a news­paper apparently with youthful vigor! Multo congratulations. Jack! He also had a suggestion for sol\ing the football ticket ntuation: "fire CAHILL and make tickets available only to non-Catholic Alumni." That was before Purdue and So. Cal however. 
A phone call near midnight from JERRY KANE at Kforris Inn where he w-as attend­ing the SUMMA drive resulted in a long reminiscing visit. Jerry who roomed with JOHNNY MOIR in Badin, TOM BOHEN in Sorin and all of us in Brownson is a VP with Boeing in Seattle. He has a son in Georgetown Law School and a daughter married. Jerry, who used to cut hair in Aforrissey sub, commented that he'd have a much easier time with me now, but probably would need a hunting license. Bumped into Father JOE RACE on the Campus and was thrown for a loss as he is as solid as when he used to make those one-arm hand stands in the shower after football practice. Joe was here for a priest conference on celibacy which I thought was a little late to interest him until I got Jack Scott's announcement. He has his 
REUNION '68 
to my next request — I would like to hear from every classmate who now has a son at ND. Have nothing definite in mind at present. How­ever, I'm certain we're all interested In this area. 
Virginia and RICHARD BURKHOLDER at the California game. Dick and Ginoy make most of the home afialzs. Dick asked if the Chkfc Lauck who played defensive end was Flank's boy. Frank '39 informed me he is a cousin's son — but hardnosed as Frank. MARIO G. TONELLI, Skokle, 111. was recently elected state commander of the Illinois DAV. Congrats, "Motts," from all of '39. Plaudits also to JOHN THOMAS DOYLE, new director of marketing of the Polyken di^^ion of the Kendall Co., Chicago and to LOUIS A. RAOELET who directed the 13th annua] National Institute on Police and Com­munity Relations at Michigan State U. 
"There'll be some changes made" as '39 moves on . . . NICHOLAS C. AMRHEIN JR to P.O. Box 1163, Boca Raton, Fla. 33432; Rev. MI­CHAEL J. BENEDICT, Box 5506, Lake Charles, La. 70601; JOHN W. BALTES, Falignund Rd., Noiwalk, Ohio 44857; PATRICK J. BANNON, 3900 Cathedral Ave., Washington, DC 20016; Dr. GEORGE L. BASTIAN JR, 40 Ramsay St., Rochester, N.Y. 14610; MAX H. BURNELL, 1115 Beachview, Dallas, Tex. 75218; JOHN J. CAREY, 413 £. 34th St., Indianapolis, Ind. 46226; JOHN A. FERENCE JR, 5700 Bunker HIU Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206; PETER J. FLUGE, Cen­tury Tower East, 2220 Avenue of the Stan, Los Angeles, Calif. 90067; Rev. EDMUND NICH> OLAS GOEDERT, St. Francis Xaner Chuidi, Golla, P.O. Gobindpur, Dt. Dacca, East Fakbtan; FRANCIS JOSEPH HAYES, 80 Broad Meadow Blvd., Apt. 5446 Woithington Temce , Colum­bus, Ohio 43214; CORNELIUS J. KVASNAK, RFD No. 2, Middlebury, Vt. 05753; JAMES C McARDLE, 1232 W. Sherwood Ter., Ft. Wayne, Ind. 46807; MICHAEL J. McGUIRE, Kt. No. 2. 

porting he has JOE SCHILLING'S picture on 
di^lay at the local Federal Office Bldg. (no 
number given). SancuUus is sUU qiutc a golfer. 
After winning at the Alumni tournament he also 
copped a couple of titles at this local dub, so 
he was no rioger in June. 
Put the secretary on the Christmas list and 
send a note along. If you need any addresses, 
let me know. 
own parish near the Milwaukee airport. A hip operation a year ago has slowed him up only a trifle. CHUCK SWEENEY and JOHN PLOUFF came out and w^e all had lunch together at Morris Inn. 
The Alumni office sent me two Items: JOE MEinUNG was one of 160 business and govern­ment offidals who partidpatcd in an advanced management prog, at Har\*ard from Sept. 11 to De c 8 and WILLIAM REDMAN DUGGAN, who lost his sight again several years after re­covering it, was transferred from his post on policy planning in the Dept. of State to the position of American Consul General in Durban, South Africa. 
Much sadder was the late news of the death of JOSEPH J. LUDWIG on Nov. 5. 1963 in San Francisco, Calif, where his widow now lives. No other details were available. Otur condolences also go to DONALD SiflTH in Colorado Springs on the death of his mother last July. 
Movie notes: Dr. LARRY EBY from Grosse He, Mich, to 102 S. Kennicott Ave., Arlington Hts., HI.; JACK ZERBST, ye olde fencer, from New York to Pasco de La Refroma 195, Mexico; WILLIAM "T-BONE" MAHONEY, former Am­bassador, from Phoenix, to 313 35th St., Virginia Beach, Va. (what's the scoop, T-Bonc?); and BOB DuBOIS from South Bend to No. Wheeler St., Douglas, Ga. (what's the scoop. Bob?) 
The scoop about us going to Europe again was that my wife always wanted to meet Princess Grace of Monaco which we did. We presented her some flowers, on behalf of the whole exchange group and I used the occasion to find out who had won the Worid Series which Grace knew. Inddcntally, my wife wore a kelly green outfit, herself being Irish and married to a Fighting Irishman and all that. The trip was also a little gift to each other on the 20th anniversary of our ha%ing started the very first CFM group back in &farch, 1947. It was also a way of not having to see the Purdue :md So. Cal. dcbades. Besdes we just like wine and cheese! 
FuTgrounds Rd., Mt. Vemon, Ohio 43050. EUGENE F. MILBOURN, 4001 Greenridge Rd., No. 214, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15234; EDWIN 
G. O'CONNOR, 10 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 02116; ROBERT C. PERRY, 3547 Barge Ct. W., Irving, Tex. 75060; JOSEPH F. RYAN, RJ). No. 2, CowlesviUe, N.Y. 14037; Dr. SAL­VATORE P. SCARALATA, 5252 Northern Blvd., Glen Head, N.Y. 11545; ARTHUR LUKE STEVENS, 136U S.W. Knaus Rd., Lake Oswego, Ore. 97034; ROBERT G. STARR, 1139 S. Wood­lawn, Wichita, Kan. 67218; DANIEL C. SHEEDY, 1355 Homeland Dr., Rocky River, Ohio 44116; Dr. DANIEL A. TOBIN, 4801 Sheboj^an Ave., Madison, Wis. 53705; EDWARD M. TOBIN, Boeing Co., Box 2428, Great Falls, Mont. 59401; JAMES L. WARNER, c/o Surf & Sand, R.R. No. 2, Malibu, Calif. 90265; RICHARD E. WELCH, 22455 Lake Rd., Cleveland, Ohio 44116; WILLIAM P. WHITE, Gamcwood Farm, 
R.R. No. 1, Box 46, Grayslake, HI. 60030; and JOHN H. WILSON, US Dept. of State, Ameri­can Embassy, Guatemala City, Guatemala. 
JOSEPH HARRINGTON phoned from the local airport prior to boarding a flight to Chicago and eventually back to Costa Rica. He had just left son Kevin '71. Warns us to watch for Hanlngton In the lineup of Miami U. (Fla.) a year hence. And to VINCENT DOLLARD, Rochester, N.Y. "Man of the Year" congiatu­ladons. Vince is also Rochester chairman for SUMMA. Your support for Notre Dame's "Great­est Challenge" Is urged by this %vriter. Its success and the resultant new development program it will insure will bring new distinction to the great Univeisty dedicated to Our Lady. 
Thb being the last issue for 1967, your secre­tary mshes all members of '39 and their families a blessed and joyous Christmas, health, happiness and all those blessings we hopefully pray for In the year ahead. 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
233 W. CENTRAL AVE. 
LOMBARD, ILL. G0148 
1S4I 
For the very first time m the past two yean your secretary has sufficient news concerning the Men of '40 to submit a column representative of the true spirit of our Class. Please do not let this shock you into nlence, but rather inspire many of you quiet ones into immediate com­munication with your secretary. 
WILLIAM M. BOLCHOZ wrote to teU us o! his change of address to 123 S. Broadway, Irving-ton, N.Y. 10533. After leaving the Campus he received his master's from Columbia U. and his doctorate from NYU. Bill is presently chairman of the dcpt. of English at Irvington HS. Thank goodness some of you use those yellow cards from the ALUMNUS for brief notes. PHIL CANALE utilized all the space when he wrote: "JOE RYAN of Denver, Colo, railed and chatted while passing thru Memphis with his family on his way to Tulsa where he will be with American Airlines. He has just retired from the USAF. Joe said that DOUG BANGERT is still with the Marines and stationed in Washington, DC." Phil has been District Attorney in Memphis, Tenn. since 1955. 

JIM DONOGHUE forwarded the information from the Investment Bealerf Digest that ROB­ERT G. STENGER has been elected president of the Milwaukee Co., an old investment securi­ties firm. A letter from Sterling, III. brought the first communication from JOE GUCCIONE since graduation. Joe has been running the Rock River Realty and Ins. Agency for the past 12 years. He also furnishes the follo^ving informa­tion: "My wife Lois and I have laised two girls and a boy. My oldest Mary Jo went to Webster CoL, is married and I am the proud grandpa of two boys. Son TOM graduated from ND in June and is attending law school at U. of Colo. Daughter Theresa has just completed a lab training course. Had a recent short visit with TONY POTENZIANI rccaUing the old days. Talked about what has happened to JOE Dc-FRANCO my roommate, STAN ADAMONIS, JOE DclGAZIO, TO? ^ CONSOLAZIO, MATT GONRING and many others. Would certainly like to hear some current news about tfacm." 
KEN COLLINS wrote from Fargo, N.D. to let us know that he is a contractor building high­way's in North and South Dakota and Minnesota. He also writes: **Am married with eight children. LEO our oldest graduated from ND last June. after playing as a linebacker for three years. KEN JR is a senior this year at ND, Mike is a junior at St. John's U. CoUegeville, Minn, and two sons and three daughters at home. With two sons at ND I have been to the Campus often. Have vblted with some of the Men of '40 — mostly sitting in the Monogram section at football games. JOHN KELLY, TAD HARVEY, CURT HES­TER, JACK HUSSEY are some of those I saw. Also hear from JACK E. IbfACK in San Jose, Calif, at least yearly." 
Following are some items which w^ere for­warded from the Alumni Office. WILLIAM H. COLEMAN is a new member of the advisory board of St. ^ncent Charity Hosp., Cleveland. THOMAS M. TIERNEY, dir. of the Bureau of Health, Dcpt. of Health, Education & Welfare, Social Security Adminis., Baltimore, Md. was awarded Honorary Fellowship in the American Col. of Hosp. Administrators on Aug. 20 at the society's 33rd convocation ceremony at Orchestra Hall in Chicago. The award is one of the Col­lege's highest accolades. Army Rcser\'e Col. LEO 
A. SANTINI graduated from the Mobilization General Staff Officer Course at the Command and General Staff Col. In August at Ft. Leaven­worth, Kan. 
JOHN McINTYRE retired June 30 after serv­ing more than 20 years* active duly in the US Navy. The ex-commander is now employed with ITT as mgr. for Navy programs, US Space and Defense Group in Washington, DC. RUSSELL 
A. KURTZ has rctimied to the US to be mgr. of international sales for the Elastomer Chemicals Dept. of the DuPont Co. in Wilmington, Del. He was formerly marketing mgr. for elastomers in Geneva, Switzerland. ANDREW J. GANNON of Claremont, N.H. has joined MiUcr Falls Co. as dir. of industrial relations. He was also named to the firm's executive management committee. He and his family will be moving to Greenfield, ^lass. 
Rev. ROBERT J. MAHONEY LLB '48 was ordained as a priest May 27 in the Cathedral of Immaculate Conception in Ft. Wayne. An in­teresting article in Wonder Workert a publication 
CMDt. MclNTYlE *40 (Itft) 
AVJMNI IN THE 

Congrats 
^NEWS 
Commander John Mclntyre '40 i^ 
tired in June after serving more than 20 years on active duty in the Navy. He is now employed ynib ITT as man­ager for Navy programs, US Space and Defense Group, in the Washington of­fice. Former Secretary of the Navy Paul 
H. Nitze presented the Navy Com­mendation Medal to Commander Mc­Intyre at his retirement ceremony. 
Bro. Xaverius CFX '41 yns recently feted on the occasion of his 50th anni­venary as an Xaverian Brother. Since; entering the brotherhood he has served as both high school teacher and trea­surer for the order. He is currenUy treasurer of Good Counsel HS in Wheaton, Md. 
James J. O'Neal '42 has been elected executive vice-president of D'Arcy Ad­vertising in NYC. He was named to the board of directors in 1%5 and since that time he has also served as management supervisor of international operations. He will continue as ]}resi­dent of D'Arcy and Multi-National Partners which handles such accounts as Lufthansa, the Bermuda Trade De­velopment Board and Grace Lines. 

Nicholas J. Vilaiosa Jr. '43 ¥ras elect­ed nce-preddent and director of legal and contract management for tibie De­fense Conununications Div. of ITT in Nutley, N.J. A cum laude graduate of both the XJniver^ty and the Law School, he has been with ITT since 1951 and has held a number of man­agement positions. Earlier this year he was named director of 1^ ^ and con­tract management of ITT s Federal Laboratories. 
Dr. Emmit M. Jennings '44 has been named president of the New Mexico Medical Society after serving for three years on the Society's CounciL He vnU visit all the component societies within the state to keep the members informed and to correlate state activi­ties with those of the AMA. Dr. Jen­nings received his medical training at St. Louis University. 
Rev. Herman R. Reith CSC MA '44 
this summer was appointed a visiting professes and resident tutor at Ma­icerere U. in Uganda. The former chairman of the ND philosophy dept also recently^ celebrated the 25th anni­versary of his ordination. 
Eugene D. Hul '47 has been named by the Otis Elevator Co. to the newly created post of vice-president and assis­tant to the president in charge of cor­porate planning and profit improve­ment. He previously served the com­pany as vice-president of the Middle Western Region and as vice-president in chaise oS service operations. 
John R. Kecgan 49 has been named 
executive vice-president of George D. Roper Sales Corp. of Kankakee, IlL He formerly served as director of mar­keting for the 2q>pliance manufacturer. 
of St. Anthony Hosp., Michigan City, Ind. con-NJ.VILlAROSA'^a DR.E.M-IENN1NGS'44 FATHER REITH '44 E. D. HUa '47 ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
tained a sketch about Dr. ROBERT J. FROST, 
a member o£ the lay advisory board. Bob re­
ceived his MD from Georgetown, has been active 
in ciWc as UTII as professional organizations. He 
is presently scr\'ing as chairman of the NO 
Foundation, assembljinan of the Col. of American 
Pathology, and president-elect and member of the 
board of directors of the Ind. Assoc of Pathol­
ogists. The father of tno children Bob and his wfe 
Amelia live at 3215 Cleveland Ave., Michigan City. 
Our best reporter GERRY SAEGERT made 
this issue with: **As area chairman for the 
SUMMA campaign I \^•as invited to attend a 
Campus conference. The meeting was excellent 

and gave me an opportunitj* to visit with other 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN 
SPELLMAN & MADDEN 
342 MADISON AVE. 

1941 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 

If you look back to the ALUMNUS of July, 1966 you wiU sec that the Class has a sccretar>'. If you check the issues subsequent to that date you might arrive at a different conclusion! Be tliat as it may I ^v-as told that my wages would be stopped if I didn't get hopping; so here is a potpourri of Class information, not necessarily in the chrono­logical order in which it was received. 
JOHN COPPINGER is senior computer sdentist with Computer Sciences Corp. at Alaishall Space Flight Center, Hunts\*ille, Ala. Says he is trying to organize an ND Club since there arc eight other Alumni locally. John likes the card for keeping in touch with the Class. BOB POHL made the us e game at which time he \*isited his son in Farley Hall. Bob attended his first reunion last year (our 25th) and is still cnjoyins the mem­ories; he wll be at the 30th. Lives in Whitticr and sells printing at Pacific Press. BILL DALY is with Seattle office of Allstate; lives in Edmunds. No NT) men out his way. JOE MANIX didn't make the Reunion because he's in the Alarshall Islands for 18 months. 
JOHN W. LARSON is publicity mgr. of Per-
AVTLLIAM M . HICKEY 
P.O. BOX 8640A 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60680 

1943 
JAMES J. 0'NE.\L has been elected exec. VP of D'Arcy Advertising Co. He has been a mem­ber of their board of dir. since '65 when he was named pres. of D'Arc>' and Multi-Xational Part­ners, their intcmaUonal operations where he will continue as management supervisor for Lufthansa German Airlines, Knox Gelatine, US Travel Ser­\ice, Bermuda Trade Development Board and Grace Line. 
Major WILLIAM P. CONNELLY is sen-ing 
JACK WIGGINS 
5125 BRIGGS AVE. 
LA CRESCEN-TA, CALIF. 91014 

1S4S 
GEORGE COPPIN writes that he has returned to the Pacific North^vest from San Francisco. George has returned to line fljing for Pan Am to Hawaii, Alaska, London and Paris. George's family: seven boys, three girk — two children in college at St. Afcirtin's, Olympia, Wash. Coppin plans to attend the 25th Reunion and looks for other aero engrs. to return. TOM CONLEY has just returned from two years in Mexico City; he was controller of Ford's engine plant and is now assigned to the general office in Birmingham, Mich. He has four boj-s — grade school through high schooL Look for Tom at the 24th! JOE TRACY is pres. of the ND Law Assn. He met OLLIE HUNTER at tlie recent Law Advisory Council meeting on Campus. Joe writes that 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. BOX 853 
GREEN BAY, WIS. 54305 

1S44 
What a changel The constant complaining, griping or whatever you want to call it in the past several columns by your secretary about the poor cooperation from fellow '44ers in submitting news items w*as not in \'ain. The pleas were heeded. The response was excellent. A very sincere thank you! 
First, a serious error must be corrected. It is of long standing, since the 'G4 Reunion. The memorial card listed six individuals as deceased but in reality they are very much alive. May the following men enjoy all the benefits of their rc­
*40 men involved with SUifMA —PAUL HEL­MUTH, Dr. JOHN KELLEHER and JACK PINDAR. At the first football game the high­light of the weekend for us and the TOM FLADs was our first visit in 12 years wth SALVATORE 
D. *ISH' ANDRIACCHI of Ishpeming, Mich. Ish has a fine family, 10 children, five boys and fi\'e girls. He brought his son John who is a. leading high school player in the Upper Pcmnsula. After the game saw BERNIE MASTERSON and the J. C. BRENNANs. Had the opportunity to visit Father ARTHUR HOPE OSB at the priests' infirmary. He sends spedal greetings to JOE MULQUEEN. Saw JIM ROGERS at the NY kickoff meeting." 

mutit Co., a div. of Ritter Pfaudler Corp. RALPH GERRA is chief tax counsel for Bethlehem Steel Corp. JERRY HICKEY {bless him) is board chairman of Thomas L. Hi(iey, Inc., South Bend contracting and engineering firm. Hey, Jerry, will you start work on the 30lh? Never too soon, old man! LOU MacKENZIE is the partner in charge of the General Motors auiUt by Haskins & Sells. Lou moved his domicile to the motor city just before the Reunion. FRED VOGELWEOE, BILL STURM and LARRY WALSH are also with H & S. BOBBY SAGGAU represents Northland Ski way up in Mequon, Wis. He enjoyed the 25th very much, as did many. But he doesn't like to say farewell and I feel exactly the same way. Bob. I guess maybe it is because we wonder if wc will meet again. It is statistically accurate to say that the attendance cur\'e falls off after the 25th Reunion. Your old Secretary will be there, God willing. BOB KOCH is exec. VP of Cali­fornia Ph>'sicians' Service for Blue Shield. A wcl* come note last November from FRANCIS D. MEYER '29 informs me that ex '41 man LEO GARRITY is a partner in the brokerage firm of Rodman & Renshaw, Chicago. 
Bro. XAVERIUS (PAUL J. KLINKHAMMER) treas. of Good Counsel HS in Washington, D C since 1962 was honored on his 50th anniversary as a Xaverian Brother in May, ANDREW Mc­
as an Air Force Chaplain area rep. He and 100 other reser\'e chaplains throughout the country prowde a \*aricty of sendees to active duty and retired military personnel in their areas. Chaplain Connelly will serve without pay and pronde asas­tancc to families of men killed or wounded in Southeast Asia. He is priest at St^ Therese's Catholic Church in Portsmouth, Va. 
WILLIAM J. MINGES has been appointed mgr. petroleum processing, chemical and additives for Union Carbide's Process Chemicals Div. He fives in Cliappaqua, N.Y. with his wife and three children. BERNIE CRIMMINS and PAUL LILLIS and other seniors who were on Coach 
JIM GODFREY is now majority whip in the Missouri House and brother MIKE GODFREY is a circuit court judge. DON DEGNAN has his own PR firm in N^C, FRANK KUNKEL is prof, at St. John's. BILL TRACY is Revlon's dir. of security. 
On May 25 LESTER KROLNICK, the exec editor of the Manhasset Press paid his annual tribute to Pvt. VTTO CAPELLO and to all our 
REUNION '68 

surrection: JOHN J. BISHOP, Davenport, Iowa; JOSEPH C. McMANUS. Mt. Pleasant, S. C ; WILLIAM J. McNAMARA, Parma Heights, Ohio; Dr. JOHN E. McSWEENEY, Cincinnati, Ohio; EAMON D. MacDEVITT, Santa Rosa, CaUf.; and Dr. FELIX A. McPARLAND, Minne­apolis. 
Sympathy is extended to GEORGE WENDT upon the death of his father, to SAM WING upon the death of his mother and to BILL O'CONNOR upon the deaths of both Jus parents. 
TOM ROLFS reported on his visit to Campus for the opening announcement of SU&IMA and on those '44eiti who were there: ANGELO BER­TELU . CUfton. N.J.; BERNARD BOWLING 
Let us remember another man of *40 who has 
left us. JAMES W. PLUMMER of Zancsville, 
Ohio died during the summer. I know all of 
you will remember Jim in your prayers. 
News about BOB LAMBERT just made my 
deadline. Bob was advertising mgr. of the NY 
Hertdd Tribune, but with the dose of the World-' 
Joumal'Tribune proceeded to make a change. 
He is now pres. of Story & Kelly-Smith, Inc., 
neH'spaper representatives. 
Must admit that I am proud of this column 
and want to thank every one of you who helped. 
Now, let's hear from some of you reluctant cor­
respondents and keep every issue of the ALUMNUS 
filled with '40 news. 
GOVERN Is third VP of the buyers' assoc. in Rochester, NY. EDWIN W. KELEHER con­troller for Automatic Retailers of America was elected a dir. of Financial Executives Institute, a national organization of financial execs, from all fields of business, industry and banking. AL\RTIN INGWERSEN has been elected pres. and chief operating officer of the Marybnd Shipbuilding and Dr>-dock Co. JOHNNY SOONG, who directs Mobil Oil's operations in Hong Kong recently conceived a plan to construct low-cost housing for Chinese refugees on the site of the company's old storage terminal. The apartment complex will house 60,000 to 80,000 people. WILLL\M C. McGOWAN is asst. VP for the real estate loan dept. in Wells Fargo Bank's head office in San Francisco. MAXWELL HILL JR. is exec. VP of chemicals and plastics operations of the Union Carbide Corp. 
That is all for now, shipmates; but I will have much more for the next ALUMNUS. Please use the yellow insert cards and send me a few notes. Your fellow '4lers will be most pleased to learn of your whereabouts. I promise that the data you send will be inserted in the ALUMNUS issue fol­lowing the date of your letter if it is received by deadline date. 
Say a prayer for the success of SUM^L\. 
FRANK LEAHY'S first ND team are touting him for membership in the Hall of Fame. CHARLIE CALLAHAN discussed the situation in the Aug. 6 edition of Our Sunday Visitor, The seniors on that team are having their 25th Reunion this year. 
We hear from GILBERT A. ZIMMERM.AN, who now lives in Sacramento: **I live at 2660 Huntington Rd., married and the father of four daughters and four sons — all ages and all stages. Have been at Aerojet Gen. for 17 years and hold the title of asst. mgr. solid propellant. Am active in the Alumni chapter of Sacramento and a past pres.; play golf; Uke linng out of the snow and the Calif, smog in the city of Sacramento. Enjoy your column and the ALUMNUS." 
nation's dead xv-arriors in the lead editonal by tellins Vito's life story. FRANCIS J. iLAG-NELIA has heen named Michigan/Indiana/AVes­tern Ohio sales engr. for Nuodex div. of Tenncco Chemicals Inc. of Chestcrtown, Md. Dr. RICH­ARD D. MtJRRAY received the Youngstown 
(Ohio) Junior C of C Frank Pumcll A\rard for community serrice on Oct. 13. ARTHUR J. QUIGLEY SR, assoc. prof, of elcc. engr. at ND, received the Catholic Layman of the Year Award by a local K of C. EDWARD V. HAS­RAH,AN was featured in an article in Chicago's American as one of four men who have done more than anyone else in the last four decades to break Chicago's distasteful world-\«-ide reputation as a city of crime. HANS O. HELLAND of Wisconsin Dells was elected this spring as treasurer of the State Bar of Wisconsin. NICHOLAS J. VILLAROSA JR has been elected a VP of ITT defense communications div. 
and JIM MEAGHER, Louisville; Dr. PHIL CLARKE and VINCE DUNCAN, Denver; BOB GALVIN and GERRY STANTON, Chicago; BOB METZLER, Kansas City; CHUCK P.ATTERSON, Framingham, Mass.; and SAM WING, Dallas. Tom mentioned that some original '44ers, Angelo for one, have been identified with classes other than '44 due to the mix-up created by World War n. He recommends that these men re­classify themselves as '44ers. 
DICK DOERMER of Ft. Wayne has been elected to the board of dir. of Ballastran Corp. He is pres. and dir. of Indiana Bank & Trust, is a dir. of Bowser Inc. Chicago, Columbus Mal­leable, Columbus, Ohio and Pierce Governor Coe Inc. iu Upland. Rev. HERMAN R. REITH 
AlUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
CSC has been appointed as a visiting prof, and resident tutor at Makercre U. in Kampala, Uganda. He will be teaching philosophy in the dept. of comparative religions and will be spon­sored by Bishop VINCENT McCAULEY of Ft. Portalj also an Alumnus. 
Col. JOHN S. HOWLANp has been selected as one of 160 business executives and government officials to participate in the 52nd session of the Advanced Management Prog, at Harvard. Dr. JOSEPH B. FARRELL has been appointed to the Federal Water Pollution Control Admin. JACK WOELFLE, Pottstown, Pa. is logistics mgr. for Burroughs Corp. BILL 0*CONNOR is sales engineer for an asphalt company in Har* risburg. Pa. His oldest son Tom is a junior in chcm. eng. at ND while his younger son Bill is a freshman at King Col. 
The entire Green Bay contingent of ND '44ers (all four) tiumed out for the annual goU outing. Neither of the two pros — WALLY CHRISTMAN and JOE FIEWEGER — nor the two duffeis — KEN FORBES and yours truly — came away with any awards. Two Flewegcr sons are at NX) now — Tom a junior and Joe Jr. a freshman. 
BILL TALBOT recently bought a country club (Ardsley) clubhouse in Westchester. Evidently there is just too much to the place and he gladly will part with an extra squash court, a bowling alley or an olympic-size pool. JACK KfcCABE handled legal aspects of the purchase while ANDY BARBIERE who lives a few blocks away made recommendations on insurance coverage. Bill saw DAVE CURTIN, veep of Xerox Corp., who was in NYC to accept a dtation for his 
Bob Shaw ^47 
F
INALLY, after almost 100 years, one of Oklahoma's Catholic schools has a lay MAN for a principal. He's Bob Shaw '47 and he's enjoying his unique position as head of the 200 elementary pupils in Tulsa's Madalene School. 
Oklahoma has had Catholic schools since the 1880s, though not in large quantities, and Tulsa has had Catholic schools since about 1910. A few years ago, the first lay principals were hired when not enough nuns were available. But until September, when Shaw joined the Madalene staff, all the principals had been women. "This is in contrast to the Tulsa public schools which vir­tually always hire men," he points out. 
Principal Shaw has high praise for his staff of five laywomen, two physi­cal education teachers (one of each sex) and four Benedictine nuns. "I see no possible reason why sisters can­not function to the best of their capac­ity under a layman," he believes. "As a matter of fact, I have been told that it is much preferred by many of the sisters not to have to live 24 hours a day and seven days a week in the same house with their principal." 
For the last eight years Shaw was an instructor of English and social studies at Cascia Hall Prep School, considered one of the best boys' schools in his part of the country. He finds the biggest difference between teaching and being a principal is time. "I used to go home about 3:15," he says. "Now sometimes 1 am still here at 6 o'clock." 
Then, too, it was quite a change from high school boys to five- and six-year-olds, but, he says, "I think I'm going to like working with this age group better. I hope I can still in­fluence worthy young men to attend Notre Dame. I've had one or more of my prep school graduates at Notre 
v^ 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
company. 
LARRY YEATES another New Yoricer and FRANK VIGNOLA nortbshore Chicago furmture baron both tried through their encooragiiig epistles to rescue this secretary from the bottom­less pit. Neither had any quotable news bat did want to help fill the mail box. Many thanks. A welcome letter was received from FRANK CARVER, Trumansbuig, N.Y. who during the past 24 years has had various poutions — dairy fanner, highway and builtUng construction worker, salesman for Electrolux and for Worid Book and teacher of sixth grade and of the mentally re­tarded. A few years ago he received his meter's and presently is teaching junior high special classes and also is working on his doctorate at Syracuse 
U. He and his wife Mary have six sons and four daughters. PAT FILLEY his fonner Cavanaugh Hall neighbor lives in nearby Ithaca where he is on the athletic staff at Cornell wlule NICK AMATO is a member of the history dept, at St. Bonaventure. Frank (whose address is Box 
21) wonders about the whereabouts of JOHN MORRISON, PAUL CARR, JOE LANIGAN and GENE PECIULXJS. 
Another NY state man is JACK MURRAY who hails from Cortland where he is pres. of Cortland Line Co. world's largest manufacturer of sport fishing lines. One of his customers is Stratton & Terstcgge, wholesale hardware and sporting goods, whose pres. is JIM MEAGHER. Apologies are in order to FARRELL QUINLAN. In an earlier column it was stated that ^nce CLEM CON­STANTINE moved from New Hampshire JOE GALL was the only *44er left in that state. 

Fandl is very mndi there where be owns and manages the In£an Cave Lodge at Ldte Smupee* His annual nutors are the "BLACK" JOHN UURFHYs. Sorry, FarreO, for the goof. 
HENRY ADAM, snpt. of employee relations of doPont lives once agsuo in Orange, Tex. He had been there £rom '49 to '55 but was transferred to fafhenburg, W.Va. Now he has returned to lus former area. He and hts wife Catherxoe have five children, three boys and two girb. Hank hopes to look up TOM BRENNAN itrho fives in nearby Houston and is planning on joumeyii^ to ND for the 25th Reunion. FHIL CLARKE Denver MD penned a note enroote to the SUMMA kickoff. He mentioned that PAUL MARIETTA and his family vacationed with the Clarkes at Cstes Vaxk YMCA camp and also ^te d them in Denver. Phil sees Msgr. GEORGE EVANS frequently and reports that he continues as chancellor under the new Denver arcfatushc^. 
An intercsdng letter was received from JOE DONALDSON '23 of Louisville who apparently w^ adopted by '44er5 attending the SUMMA meeting. He sent a ne%vspaper article about Mayor BERNARD BOWLING who appeared at a city council special meeting attired in sport clothes nrach to the consternation of his fellow councilmen who just previously bxid reprimanded one of their group for appearing in axiular attire. Fortunatdy for Bemie an exception was allowed and a ^ 0 fine was suspended. 
May the joys and blessings of the holy season of Christmas be showered abundantly iqion you and your HamlHes. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! 
IHE PRINCIPLE IS KNOWING HOW TO HANDLE A WOMAN 
Dame every year since I've been teach­ing — two of them this year. Now I'll just be talking about Notre Dame to younger boys, which may have as good an influence." 
The only thing Shaw doesn't like about his job is that there is so much talk about closing down the Catholic schools — for financial reasons. "Any idea where we can raise $100,000 or so?" he asks. 
It seems three Catholic grade schools in the area closed this year. Tulsa is mainly Protestant with about 15 per­cent Catholic and three percent Jewish and what Catholics are there don't support their schools — either finan­cially or by enrolling their children. There is just one Catholic high school (other than the prep school where Shaw taught and one for girls — both rather expensive) in the city of nearly 400,000. 
Mr. and Mrs. Shaw have contributed their share of pupils. They celebrated their 18th wedding anniversary this fa]I with their five daughters — ages 23, 20, 18, 15 and 14. Papa admits "this sounds a little unusual until I add that they are all adopted. We've never had a child younger than nine." 

Extracuiricularly, Shaw has done a lot of volunteer coaching with the Tulsa Park Dept. and his parish school, Madalene. He has coached boys' base­ball, basketball and track and girls' Softball, basketball and track. 
"In the last five years I have spent more time coaching girls than boys, mainly because there were numerous parents willing to help the boys and so few to help the girls. To make a long story short, five years ago I started coaching the Madalene Girls' Basket­ball Team — 7th- and 8th-graders — and for the last five years we have won the Oklahoma State Catholic Cham­pionship. Thb has not hurt my chances of getting this principalship. Now I am coaching still, but will not be able to give as much time to it as in the past." 
Madalene Chiurch is under the pas­toral care of Rev. James MacNamee, whom Shaw calls "one of the most progressive and influential priests in the coimtry." Shaw was the first com­municant at the first Mass celebrated at Madalene when it was established in 1947. Father "Mac" was the cele­brant and Shaw has been in the parish ever since. 
In 1957 he and his wife Evelyn and their family moved right across the street from the entrance of the church and they have been very active in parish functions. Now in 1967, the move is paying off in a bonus. "I have the advantage of knowing personally three-fourths of the families whose children are in our school," the new principal points out. 
29 
^ —-^^ « . . -1* 
"-^^ 
sf^^Z 
^*. 
?• 

STUDENT POWER has been defined as "the move­ment to gain for students their full rights as citizens and their rights to democratically control their non­academic lives and to participate to the fullest in the administrative and educational decision-making of the university. To this issue four students and a pro­fessor address their views on its present and future at Notre Dame. 
T
HERE IS unrest in academia. Students have plunged into-the rabbit hole of education and they are disgusted with their destination. It is Universityvillej USA—a quasi-Wonderland. --^The Queen presides over her court, shouting "Off with their heads" at every unruly student leader. It all startedmore than two years ago. The court was the University of California at Berkeley. The Queen was Clark Kerr. And the student who almost lost his head was Mario Savio. Har\'ard too rebelled and stu­dents around the nation were chanting "We have power." _ 
Everyone \vas upset but what upset them most was the fact that students did have power. Savio kept his 
Tom McKenna 
head because students had power and Berkeley changed because students used that power. It is a struggle and, whether or not it ismodulated with love, it remains a struggle. 
Notre Dame is a long way from Berkeley both geographically and, philosophically, and in many other ways. But in the \vinter of 1964, She gave a mini-view of what was to come; This time the queen was Father Hesburgh and the head was that of Student Body President (SBP) John Guerin. Although Berkeley would later concern herself with academic freedom while Notre Daine was up at arms about "lights,out" and curfew restrictions, the basic premise was there i .''. Power. Because that's what it's all about, just who has the power to tell whom what to do. 
- Guerin kept his head. Notre Dame received ex­tensions on both lights and curfews." Then She sat back and enjoyed a rather peaceful two years. But the rumblings began again. SBP Minch Lewis had s\valIowed the "let us, • administrators and knowledgeable student leaders, reason together" philosophy for his entire reign., 
_ _ . _ _^ 
Student unrest has turned into student power, says the activist, and 
-it's here to stay. 
He reasoned, yet when the tiirie came for delivery of concrete action, Minch found his sandbox empty.. JWhat did he do? He.acted. He threatened a mass violation of curfew. He threatened signed statements by fellow­ship winners painting a somewhat dreary picture of' Du.Lac. I He threatened student power buttressed, by student actionl What happened? It worked. "Curfews, 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
lights, apartments and cars were promised—^a charitable 
response. ' 
Y • Mr. Lewis was assisted in this little political burst by an organization called the Popular Front They wanted to bring student rights and resjwnsibilities into Campus politics. For the first time, the possibilities of student incorporation, student hiring or firing of the Dean • of Students, student judicial board,, and the students' role in University'policies were discussed. It was new. It was exciting. It was here to stay,  The fall of 1966 wtnessed Paul Higgins' establish­ment: of the Action Student Party (ASP); It ran 12 men for the Student Senate. Six were elected. For most of that year, the party ^vais restricted to introducing suie-to-be-defeated bills in the Senate and small discus­sions, in the Senate conference rocHn. In the spring, along with student body elections, the ASP decided to nin its ideas. We wanted to see just how many people j^eed with us. The party grew. The issues^were declared. Dennis O'Dea was named the ASP candidate. He ran and the ASP ran exceedingly hard, but lost. The preadential candidate was defeated, but the pro­grams were incorporated in every student politico's platform. There was "^ lot-of "we agree with you in principle, but . . ." We were mowng, and the best was yet to come. ' 
In 1967 the ASP had 13 voting members in the Senate along with many more "principle" people who now agree on action. The.Senate has decided that it now has power. It • deleted a constitutional article which prohibited it from passing anything against Uni­
T
HERE. IS NO possibility that the stru^le for "student power" is an accident. Power is not an impotent shibboleth, but the, indication of a real and uncontrollable desire. Two points demand expression before the remnants of academic order topple "in a shudder of anti-rational ecstasy: that power and student life are mutually exclusive, student power a contradiction in terms; and that responsibility for the disruption of uni­versity life is general, though not universal, and is a moral responsibility. It would be profitable to look to' the dissolution of the three main elements of the uni­versity, and the causes of that .dissolution for the source of the present preoccupation with student control. 
r 
versity r^ulations. It decided the coaf and tie rule was. a self-defeating, meaningless anachronism. The adrnm­^istratipn agreed. The Senate decided thfe students should have complete control oyer their personal lives witUn the University. It passed legislation to that effect and the students have begun to act on that l^islation. They Would now like an active part in the reahn where ' the three elements (students, faculty, administration)_ of 
. the University meet—^the realm of academics. \ 
Thie student at Notre Dame is a product of an educa­tional evolution. He has been eciuipped with a critical mind and now desires to apply this criticism to his present community.i He views his life, his existing educational construct, and is dissatisfied. He questions the fact that he cannot exert any control over his awn "environment He. questions the fact that he is required _to take outdated and irrelevant courses. He questions the fact that the current system is not fulfilling his 
1 needs. He questions, searching out possible solutions, beginning action on these solutions. He unites with other students; he forms an organization, a political party, an Action Student Party. He is. not a wild-eyed radical. He's a concerned student, one who is tired of seeing what tomorrow's going to bring. He wants to discuss openly all Uni­versity policy.' He-wants to know why the students aren't governing their lives. He wants to know why academicreforms^ are so long in committee. He wants recognition as a member of a threefold commimity. He wants respect as a vital entity in the great Catholic University. He thinks that maybe tomorrow is NOW. 
eulogized without consideration of the. relevant question —how is this to be done? Niraibers^ imply dilution,* if not prostitution of the quality, of rational inquiry. \ Holding the Ivy League as an ideal has the effect 
,of reversing the direction of Notre Dame, toward the dissemination of facts instead of ideas, statistics instead of concepts,'quantity instead of quality. It has its curricular coimterpart in the creation and rise to ascendancy of depjirtments and sections within de­partments that recognize only the man controlled by passion and whim at the cost of the humanistic studies'^ that recognized an independence of .man through his Creator. Gradually, to; salve federal and social feelings. 
The traditionalist deplores the forfeiture of university authority arid labels student power 
Ken Beirne* 
"the culminatibn of amoral disaster." 
va. 
, Prior to any discussion of a takeover^ by the under-I graduates of a school, there must be the forfeiture by the administration and faculty of thar roles in governing and^.'leading academic life. The administration must first take for its ideal of excellence some socially accepted symbol having litfle or no relevance to the demands of education, such as the East Coast.; Statistics come to 
•;replacei content as the>.desired aim of the university; number of books, number of buildings, number of fellow­ships, nuihber of students, teacher-student ratios, all are 
32 •• 
/
> 

Notre Dame is oithronirig determinism and game theory above responsibility and ethics. 
"Hie faculty has been adjusted to its new role as disseminator of fact umrelated to reality through its, newer members in the empirical social sciences. On the other hand, we find the. faculty chorusing the same. claims without foimdation as the students, for their use of fact has no relerance to' arguments of ethics "and order. The call for rights preempts the discussion of reality and'necesdty. A curious dichotomy has arisen. 
, ALUMNUS NOVEMBER I9«7 DECEMBER 
A 

On one hand, the students are taught, on the other, what they are taught provides no basis for either their or the faculty's thoughts about a student's role at "Notre Dame.­We find instead the use of older concepts without foundation as intimidating weapons. In the 'arguments of those claiming and espousing student rights and power, you will find some condescension to reason in their use of terms such as "community" and "university," but no attempt to link, the actual essences to their own assertions. ^ ; 
The whole movement takes the form of a radicid egalitarianism, mainly because the administration and faculty have admitted to no inore a grasp of the demands of education than the students. We have even had the spectacle of a former University administrator announcing the dawii of a new age with the coming of Berkeley. The imitatio Berkeley replaces whatever it was that preceded it and its herald is i>ow in Guidance. 
On this basis, the students' demands for power are,, if not rational, at least understandable, at least at first glance. But the form of-^the demand is not that oc­casioned by the nature of the situation. Normally, it would be expected that the students,-after noting the deficiency, would call for-a reassessment of the present changes; call upon faculty members with a background in theory and the natures of education (not to be con­fused with technique); and then proceed to work with the administration aiid faculty toward a time when the role of authority in reason could be accepted on campus. This is not possible under present circumstances for two reasons. \ N ' ; 
The administration will accept neither authority nor the responsibility that goes with it.' Not willing to extend the efTort to distinguish between paternalism and authority, the administration is allowing-the latter to be slaughtered in the guise of the former. The basis of authority is the willingness to work to see and live with an objective reality, an absolute. The administration is not willing. ^ 
The student body will not accept authority in any case, since its acceptance demands the same type of relation to a reality that one person can know better than another as' that demanded of the administration. In either case, leaidership is demanded of the man who holds or heeds (not xmcritically) authority. 
There is then a vacuum, created from the unwilling­ness of anyone to lead. In answer to this, a number of interest groups have grown to struggle for control. The two major ones are the bureaucracy (formerly an ad­ministration), and student leaders (formerly students;). The demands for "student power" are the technique used to overcome the' inertia of a semi-controlling bureaucracy identified in the. popular ima^ation with rules. In this way the whole structure.of the university is made to participate,in the incoherency of its present organizers, instead of being understood in its .possible relation to a rational design. This design and its relation to power is the next problem. 
The nature of student life comes first into question. Its primary foundation is the awareness of an objective reality (absolutes), and the necessity-to use-reason to understand it. To train the rational faculty in any num­ber of its various and complementary disciplines is the task of the imiversity. Training the mind supposes some 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER ^ 
V •.''.!, ••• ; t/ • ' •' • . ••.'.•'••: 
kind of leadership, a rational authority. oiticaU]^ ac­cepted. S(Hiueone must point out the |>attaiis, of'the , real; so.long aJs he does nplt deceive, thejteach»,a{^« ' ' course, ordie administrator; ot ja tiniversity is to be ac> , cepted as ah authority, to \jc hei^ed if not obeyed., Tb?. student must follow tlie' pdnter of his teacher^ not doch ilely but impatiently, until the day when they^init company,, through separation of intertstSr or through .die occasipiial leap of IirOliance. the fine) teacher ^i^tty Justs to see. The authority ,of the university should not .be unquesticned, but miist Jbe acknowledged^-bpth'fay. the' students/and by the administcationr .' '• ' _ Power is the n^ation of reason:, ,It nuasuies itii' progress by addition and multiplication;'^ iti path' is marked by subtraction and nitiiladon. \Power is deare . unbridled by reason, a cuiming chaos. Armed with dw , hedonistic calculus, a man seeks power; his personalpNun multiplies itself in'the satiatioa of others, and his power: 
- enters existence. Mme accurately, pbvrer repkues re­ality. Find a man who speaks of power and there you ^ will.'find the focal mirnxr of the carefidly disordered . deares of his associates and followersi, their eyes and-i appetites turned not to the world but to him.' Fmd.the \ man tom'^by .desires where his reason holds no sway, y Watch a sal^man,cajole, pressure and bribe him, i ^ 
, pealing to the greatiest number of fears and daires pos­sible to find the one that will force not a discision, but an action that will replace a dedsioa, and then.you.will know the natiure of power/ The platrtic salesman, cbn­forming„not toj«dity but to the twists of. his subjects' tortured souls, is the widdeir of {X>wer. Ask what place this has at a university, and then watch the student torn between the desire to be oh a judicial board over his, fellows and the desire to.^have no requirements at all in his own life, with the opportunity to justify dthor-: with the necessity for commimityor the in^dolable rights^ of the student Salesmanship is ^replacing truth in the university; where then will it go to find expression? 
Reason and power are natural enemies, as are a fortress and a'horde of savages. Who will.gain if "stu­dent power" becomes a reality? The student whose edu-"' cational atmosphere will be the plaything of his rpom­niates and drinking buddies, 'and those'with, whom he. wouldn't even associate? The teachers who know what ­can be shown, if only the students in ppwer will con­descend to allow their charges to look? A short analysis of the platforms of candidates in student elections will reveal in what direction all eyes are. turned. 
^ This is^the present aiid futuire of NotreDame. vThe demand .for^ "student power" is npt<|Unique to Notre Dame. The presuppositions c^^ the'^claiins are the same everywhere. If notUng else, the fact that the movement ; is widespread should.give grave doubts as to its correct-. ness. The outcome outlined' is not inevitable; it is, how­ever, improbable that anything else'will be the outcome. 
t No, there is no possibility that the general clamor ~ for "student power" coming frcan. administration, fac-. ulty and students alike is'an accident,'' The pretext of ' student maturity is very thin; one does not claim matu­rity, but lives it It is not frar anyone else to give or-take , away. Only the fragile atmosphere of the university^, its delicatei mr^cture of reality and thoughl^ is th«e to> be granted oi: destroyed. Its destruction willrbe^the culmi­nation of a moralidisastier. Its name—'"student pcwcr.'v 
33: 
\ ­

N THE FALL elsewhere come leaves and colors and people., We come as^American middle-class white Cath-^ sounds and then football. In the fall at Notre Dame olio males oi average intelligence and the majority shall comes football and football in all its glory. The leave the same. Our political and social views, tend to campus is turned into a riot of yellows and reds be conservative since we are the children of a stable in­-and hooraySj and soon there is no campus but only dustrial sodety which in its self-sadsfacdon promotes an open air opera house, the stadium and glory, stasis. We are obedient, if familiar, with the authority-; 
gloryj always glory. And the stands swing to and fro like sheets in a wind and here, here on' a plot of green the whole of Notre Dame plays with "the pigskin and' oohs and aahs the flighty ball into the right hands. The cheers rise and grow louder and finally as the ball crosses that last sliver of lime and into ^ the end zone, you and me and him and everyone are merged into cme, a metaphysical imity of sweat, tears and good times. 
•Jay Schwartz 
And then you retreat back to the gloominess of Sorin and "fall asleep and feel dead, but soon to be sdive is another long week and you know that you'belong out there and you want to be there. Your joy and love are ephemeral but they shall return and they shall return sotm. " ^ 
After fall comes the snow and with the snow the darkness. The lights in the South Caf are a dull haze and your milk is no longer really white. And you study hard, and read the Sun-Times amid the gloom.and you study late into the night On Friday everyonp bundles off to Frankie's or St. Mary's and then maybe to the Laurel Club for a beer and more sweat. You come back in the cold, a bit drunk and you fall in your ho-hum corridor and soon you fall asleep. The whiteness of the snow makes everything darker and you walk slower than before. TTie march with everyone goes on. And you bask in the empty warmth oLyour radiator and wait for spring that has to come. 
Spring comes and leaves the ground "so^;y. It's a heavy spring and the light breezy fall air won't come for a few inore weeks and then you probably won't know how to leave the library." If you do leave, it will be on the run — probably to St. Mary's and the girls, . the nondescript, blank, aloof, pretty girls of the fall. ' And they will be in the windows and then walk you home with souvenirs, together. -Tomorrow will bring 
" die blue lakes and a terribly clear brightness. The birds and thdr bustle ivill awake the trees and signal the exams and finally summer, summer and the dullness of heat, on a dry day. 
At Notre Dame the year is only nine months long. 
' It starts with gaiety and ends with relief and aXl along the way everyone goes together, always together. This is only natural since this is how they b^an — together. This is life at Notre Dame or at least as one man sees it It is not meant to be a total view but it is in many respects a true one. One person and perhaps many others think it is and their qualification is that they live it , ' / ^. 
^ It. appears quite clear that Notre Dame serves to rdnforce inherited and generally unexamined values. _We come together to Notre Dame as the same type of 
34 ' •• ' ' 
of black^'robes. In sum, we come to Notre Dame smug and secure in our social status, our material prosperity ^ and perhaps even our claim to eternity. 
Just as the sun sets and the sun also rises, we pass thrmi^ four winters-of Notre Dame the same as we were during that first deceptively bright football season. Let us examine more closely the way Notre Dame re­inforces our stock credentials. 
., .and then there are rnany who, handed their beliefs and values, slumber away in the world of absolutes. 
A high-school senior approaches college with a set 
- of beliefs and values,, that are generally a result of his familiar socialization. As he moves, at least physically, avray £rom his parents, he should move intellectually and spiritually from the values they have given him; the move'ment t^es the form of questioning, revising, and finally, personally appropriating these values., He may not feel any differently, but at least he will have felt these things more direcdy, more as being for himself. What I wish to suggest is that-the encounter and con­flict of ideas andjof beliefs are not an integral part of life at Notre Dame; rather values are not test^ because they are not discussed and we graduate with our original and unexptored beliefs.-^ 
. The primary fact of the imiversity and this one in particular is community; everybody lives together. The secondary facts are St. Mary's, the weather. South Bend, and vacations. These are the basic topics of intercourse and the residence halls serve as a market place for these classic and cozy topics of conversation. Football, not Vietnamj" looms large as the subject of concern here; we talk more,about the weather and St Mary's than we do about the nation's ghiettos; more about vacation than religious experience. By doing this we strengthen our original inherited values - because and only because they grow with us in time. Yet they grow not in contoat but rather blindly, safely out of view and out of reach. Reinforcement is the name of the game and Notre Dame from eight thirties to late in the library happens to be theplace. 
It is my belief that life at Notre Dame revolves about these central objects and ignores what one could, per­haps a little pretentiously, call the great questions of 
• personal existoice. We piyot about our common condi­tion with our stock responses, and emerge af ter fom­years as football fans with the intellectual maturity of a high-school student Creativity and indivddual con­tributibn^us become special phenomena at a place that should promu^te their necessity. ^ I am' not omtending that all the people here do not try to come to know themselves. I am not su^esting for obemmnent that all of Notre Dame cheri^es only footbalL I am not saying that there is not intellectual 
— ~ ' ' ALUAitNUS NOVEMBER Wt7 DECEMBER 
revolt or serious ccmsideration of serious problems. How­ever, I am saying, and saying very seriously, that the life I have depicted is unfortunately the life of too many students. I am saying that too frequently students leave 
^ Notre Dame on a sunny day in June and ventiure forth : in iht real world without ever seriousl)Kconsidering how they stand in that world. These are the people jvho cbine back in the fall to cheer the team, and these are the people who shall approach life with inherited and imexamined qpinions on anything from birth control to Black Power. These are Notre Dame's lost many. We ask what is the role of the American Catholic in the contemporary intellectual scene, but we ask before we have considered that the Catholic at a Catholic university is normally so strictured by parochialism, an oppressive sense of tradition, a devastating awareness of the ordinary, that innovation is impossible for him. He 
- must lead a subterranean'^existehce', concerned not with the real problems of lifebiit rather wth yards per carry. They are notencoiuraged to test the territory off the 
^ beaten track but rather to follow the absolutes of grand-
T
HE HEAVY mist of a cold, dark, Indiana evening lingers over Notre Dame's norths quad as a lone student trudges toward Farley Hall. At the front door, one of his""advance men" meets him and takes him to a crowded forced-triple on the first floor where a couple dozen students have gathered. 
He begins. His voice is mechanical now after two weeks, of constant campaigning. He has said these same words over and over again, and he has now reached the point where he could give the speech in his sleep.' 
"I'm running for student body president because I think Notre Dame can be a better place. I'm running because I think we, through student government, can do something about the conditions we find ourselves in. We~_can gjun more student rights. We can participate 
/  —  —  —  •  —  
• 'Student PoweREVOLUTION  *r ator  •N  • ' otre Dame ­EVOLUTIOm  .  
^  

- fathers aad^aldiad.mea. Tacf mImded thrir bdie& and values, ^dtly instructed not to questkni, and then-pushed quicklyjinto die.life of mechanized suburlna. , •• I hope that thisessay has pinpointed a serious l>rob­lem and that with^tfais.kndwlolge another fact will .emerge:'that this problem, with such serious dimen-^ sions, has no mnple and foFthright.answer. I dobdieve that the solutiob'is in the air at NotrelDam^.butl alsp, believe thit it is coming too slowly~^d obviously'too late for too many. For as long as stuilmts are-not di­rected toward individuality'iand toward creative activity,' V as Irag as they lead a mechanical-.existencfi they will' remain spectators to that game that we somehow, call . life. They wiU be; as rigidly held within thdr narrow £rames of rderence as when^they cam& 
I do not believe it is necessary for every graduatt; of; Notre Dame to be a Socrates, floa^g back and forth in melancholy metaphysical water. However, it'is man­datory that eadi.be an Odysseus, a mail coiisdous of himself and^f those around him, a contributor, alive, intense, open. ^ , j ^ 
reality in the winter-r-is that^we-at Notre Dame lack the sustaining energy to keep our student igovemment-­living, vital and meaningful. The,missing element of vAadi I speak is "student power." And because of this lack, the. entire Notre Dame community suffers—Utip' administration, the-faculty, the alumni and espedally the students. Notre Dame suffers, because with "student ^ power," it could be so much better. 
The fundamental prindples of "student power" include three important concepts: 1) the right and responsibility of the student to govern himself.^ in the acadenuc community, 2)' a recognition by the> admin­istration and faculty of the students' rights and^e-, sponsibilities of self-govemmen^ and 3) an acceptance^ ­by all three dements.of the xmiversity-^administration,'­faculty, and students—to recognize each other's place . in the at^emic community and- to work together to 
Mike MipCauley 
actively in the academic community. We can begin to build a better hall life. We can. make decisions for ourselves." 
And then the candidate goes on to enumerate specific programs and ideas regarding student govern­ment. But the ideas and programs and words bounce off the walls of that.forced, cramped triple in Farley Hall because those' two dozen students don't really believe it is possible. They will vote for this candidate. He.is a sharp guy.and an impressive talker. But they resdly don't believe what he says. 
And that is the beginning. It all begins with idealism in March, flickers in the mute months of ^summer vacation, fades in the footbaU-frantic days of autumn, and finally gasps and dies as the winter engulfs the Notre Dame campus.' " 
- The reason that - student government annually resembles a gigantic balloon^—^blown up with idealism in the spring only to be jwpped by the sharp point of 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19(S7 DECEMBER 
exercise joint control over matters, which concern the entire community inWest. ~ . -. 
If we clearly understand the fundamentals of "stu­dent poWer" and the implications they have on our university, then we can begm to see why student power ­is lacking here at Notre Dame and what we can do to establish a base for "student p)Ower" in the future.'' j ~^ 
The failure of student govemmeht to incorporate the -% first prindple of "student power"—^that of sdf-govern­ment—^is perhaps the key to why "student power" docs ' not exist at Notre.Dame. The f^ure falls to a large d^e e on the shoulders of student government and not , the university administration, becaiise we students have^ f^ed on three levds: ,^ A 
1) We have failed to support our. student govern­ment—and redprocally,^ our student govemmoit has _ failed to be senative to the real interests of the student' body. 2)'We-have failed,to build meaningful and sdf­goveming hall communitira^ On the contrary, we have 
^ •• ^. •'•:'.'•'•/ "T ^^ • . 35, 
channeled our main interests and .what power we do have into areas which should riot take precedence over hall life. The hall community is the most important structural unit of student government and student life, and it has not received the attention and interest from ' 
• either the individual student or the student government 
3) We as students have failed to live up to our coni­mitment concerning the judiciary system v in the hall and on the Campus. This opportunity for peer govern­ment and discipline was started by the students and gained recognition from the administration through the OflSce of the Dean of Students. But we students have failed to sustain that judicial system. Most halls do not even have hall judiciaries. The students' simply have not taken the initiative. It is not a matter of not being willing to enforce rules which we students did not make. It is a case of student apathy vnthin the hall and student government. 
Do we have the right to complain about the archaic and neomonastical rules imposed upon us by the ad^ ministration if we have displayed a complete lack of resjtonsibility in this important area of student power— the power to maintain order in our i own hall com­munities? ^ 
The second main reason for the lack of real student power at Notre Dame is that the administration is unwilling to relinquish its strangehold over the Uni­versity community. The administration has failed to be truly academic—that is, it has failed to realize the full, potential of the modem university. And it has failed 
. to realize the potential role of an a\Araure, interested and articulate student body. It seems as though the Uni-versify administration has failed to notice that students have changed over the last two decades—^that they can no longer accept dictatorial control by an administration which is largely insensitive to student demands. 
A recent article on "student power" in Newsweek put it this way: "Increasingly sophisticated by travel, sderted by the universal word of the media, and weaned on the security of an affluent society, students are not . afraid to assert their beliefs. They have realized that the student body —, increasingly diverse, urban, and worldly—^is changing more rapidly than the school." 
The administration at Notre Darbe must realize the change that has occurred within th^ student body in the last decade. The administration has realized that our collie board scores are higher, that we are more 
N 
lOTKE DAME TODAY enjoys a new life and a new hope engendered by a new generation of stu­'dents and teachers.. Still,- every generation brings with it new ways and new .^approaches, the past flowdng into the. present and the fu­
ture and, strangely, the future flowing back irito 
the present And today.we do know that stu­'. derits and teachers, like all citizens Mn the antipersbnal ,' power-world of the 60s, are always in; danger of being 
• submitted to the process of massification we observe everywhere about us in the history, society and. politics 
- of our time. The optimism of a few cannot gainsay the fact there 
• is to ,be encountered everywhere a deep; sorrow now­
^{adays. This sorrow is first of all concerned with political-asocial conditions and possibilities. But beyond these it 
2i 
intelligent arid have a.greater interest and capacity to 
learn, and diat we win more graduate fellowslups.. But 
they iiave fjuled to realize that we students want to 
assert ourselves in the academic community—^that we do 
have something valuable to offer-in the vray of advice 
from'the student point'of view. We want them to know, 
our iritereste,iour opinions on student life, liying con­
ditions, arid academic policy. We simply want our 
rightful share Jn the policy formation of the University. 
^Numerically, we should/have that representation 
(we are over 6,000 strong), intelligently, our demand 
is a just one. And responsibly, we have shown and will 
continue to show that we can riot only govern ourselves, 
but also make suggestions to help Notre Dame become 
a truly modern university in the fullest sense of the word. 
The third fundamental of "student power"—^that 
of boopraration amorig^'the administration, faculty, and 
student body—^will be realized at Jfotre Dame only if 
the| first two primary principles become reality. We 
students niiist first realize that with a "right" comes an 
undeniable responsibility. We have a lot to prove yet. 
If we cannot govern ourselves within the hall com­
munity, we have displayed to all that we do not have 
the responsibility to accept further" rights; But the 
important thing is that we students DO have the re? 
sponsibilityi, .We only have to redirect our student 
government and individual interest to the obvious focal 
point of student life—^the hall community. 
Hojjefully,- the administration of the University will realize the students', capacity to govern themselves and to. participate in th^ policy formation structure of the University. And, ^ hopefully, the student body wll be recognized as an important and constructive force at Notre Dame;. 
"Student power" is coming to Notre Dame.' It is inevitable,,and no one can stop it Indeed, no one should want to stop it, because it is-good. I t can only ' help Notre Dame in the long run. It can come through responsible dialogue and cooperation among the ad­ministration, faculty, and students. Or it can come through revolution and demonstration, as it did at Berkeley. 
If we realize the true potential of "student power," there is no question as to how it will come to Notre Dame—through-a mutual cooperation and'respect for the positions and viewpoints of the administrator, the teacher and the student 
is known that this sorrow involves, an undeniably crucial 
question: Ist^the person of the 60s stiU adequate to his 
own vocation, to his own Work? 
In the 20th century there has been developed a measure of power surpassing all expectations and antici­pations,, a measure of power that will grow, it seems, constantly and immeasurably. This power is widely ob­jectivatcd: in scientific perceptions and institutions, which now in turn bring forth new problems; in political structures, iwhich are in constant movement; in technical works which'push forward out of their own dynamism; last but not leasts in the spiritual and intellectual at­titudes of. man. "~ .' 
' Ck)llege students and,their teachers want to know what they can. do.- We find ourselves staring — vastly startled •^— at the savage features^ of the nuclear mon-
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1M7 DECEMBER 
,;A;: 

strosity and a^ our spectacular missions into outer space and lately into' the darkest depths of the oceans. Vfe are tormentet^ and tortured in iriind and spirit by war­fare and specially by the vijper's tangle of Vietnam. / 

/suffering from a sense of "powerlessness." 'I do not 'think Notre Dame' students crave power. Without be­ing militant or enrj^ed or violent, they want to relieve 
Frank O'Malley 
We recognize the immense importance of the solution of political, social and economic disorders and injustices. . ' But the emphasis varies in this decade from year to year. Involvement here in the civil rights movement is clearly much less than it was three or four years ago. , Instead the energies of some of our ablest current stu­dents are engaged in the peace movement to end the Vietnam war and to reject the draft Simultaneously there is a growing concern with the problems of the cities and towns-nearby.s Notre Dame is no longer' a closed society — and student journals like the Scho­lastic and The Observer .vbndly reflect this fact. Con­siderable numbers of our students quietly sacrifice them­
^ selves to help the sick, the destitute and the deprived in South Bend and Chicago and other places: in the tutoring of the poor in the ghettoes, in promoting the welfare of migrant farm workers in the countryside. This is, certainly, as The New York Times has just noted, "the most important social commitment" of college stu­dents across the land in the late 60s. 
Naturally there remain here as elsewhere an im­pressive number of students who prefer simply to study their lessons and get along with the business of ^x>wing up,and readying themselves for careers; But I would, say that our students are chiefly concerned, regardless of other commitments, with the improvement of, with the quality and integrity of pur educational system, with the promotion and sustenance of the arts and sciences. These compose, for oiir students .and teachers, the true preoccupation. -\ 
As I see it, our problem rests not on matter of method but in our whole attitude towards life and in the examination and re-examination of this attitude. Now the pressing questions come: Is rule always un­assailably right? Does the p>erson dealt with always feel there is a personal, relation established, especially 
,one of respect? Is the action really concerned with this relation and is it realized as it should be, according to its nature? Is there a true appeal to the animate, the creative faculty, the freedom in the student? 
We must understand these are not questions .of pri-• vate morale merely but of the success or failure of in­tellectual and ^cultural life and of the education that would nurture this life. We must realize that everything '' depends, for, ourselves and for owe students, upon the activation of a true and deep respect for truth, right, personal dignity, and the "creative center" of our fellow­men. If this is not done, then some kind of force will conquer.and some kind of slavery will ensue. V 
Students throughout the country, are described as 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19«r DECEMBER ' , , 
themselves of paral^ns and to save thonsdves nam Ae r; rampant 20th-century\powqr wiucb th^:fm[in;'fnd/' ' out of the Chindf; in and out of the Uhi«^s^i?^c^'"'';:' .^ I cannot. speakViwith'the authority ,or l^^iage,of 
a sociologist andiropd<>gist^ educatimi^ psyclxdog^ V , . typolc^ist or journalist-analyst Yet I do have adme/wg^'%'^; gestions affecting our. ^dents in their jdig^t and ^ . 
; f.-t 

Professor of English, beloved by geriertttums-^^'^• ofND men, speaks of) students:anid ourseltie}^^ i.' in the bowetiworld oj.thi sixties. \;. '\ .: N ­
.1-, ic i.'i 

reeled mostly to ouisdves as teachen and OMmellaits 
who cannot fail to share the experiences of oiir ftiidents. 
First: .wemust renew in some measure what used to be cidled the contemplative attitude. Enmunud Mourner ' ^ has"mentioned the real danger of liecoining'^ut up m ^ ounelyes. But for most of/us tfie true descriptipo, is / '^ tl^t of Valery: 'TVejare shut up outade'cursdves." • ^ From that ^kind. of imprisonment inothing' Init\'<j(nH \ , t tiemplatioa can deliver us." Everywhere there isJacticBj: — everywhere activity, everywhere busyness, everywhere-,; *­organization — biit out of what are they directed? From ' an inner self which is not quite at home w, at ease ''\ 
' with itself but rather ac]b, thinks and judges from its./-^ superficial spheres: mere logic, mere, c^culatimi,'mere' j^^ . achievement, mere impulses'of'power,'possession|«" A ' pleasure. The depths of inim haveto be revived "again.'^ -{•• Man's soul has to be rediscovered. In one of hismottM eloquent passages, Romano Guardini has said all that \ we-mean:. -The soul ne ^ that.sfnritual relaxation^in whidi the cbnvulsioiis <rf the willv/are stilled, the resti.! " f/ lessness of stru^le quieted, and the shrieking of desire . , silenced."' ,•, -• <-• > . \' , . . -y-'. ••^>'''-,i>:'' 
Actually, I believe many of our studoits who are / ' known'as activists comprdiend this—-and, asia raidt,\^-,' their action on behalf of. their fellpyy students, and me \-Uiiiverrity community has the form of Aeir renectj^^ -^ ^ \ is more constructive and effective.-.To bum down the ', Dome is not their objective —7, only to make the &c^ the history, the symbolism of its odstence more meaning-\ ful, more radiant'than eveirsbefore. / ^y ^ 
Second: We must open^ ourselves again to the el©-, > ^ mentary fact of the .nature of things and peiyms. Even S a cursory.examination will show us how schematic w-' isysteinatic we make them, how far 'we deal with thedi •~ .; only on the basis of .conventions, how much we handle •_'., them.under external aspects .of efiBciericy; convenienoe ' ­or the saving^of time. We must approach the esseice of ^ c. being ^aiii. We must commit;, as Josef KepCT womd y urge, the genuinely philosopMcal act Our stud^ts hore' today, with aU' intensity and interiority beyond that v^ . of past generations are right now asking/the real jdiilo-V -­sophical questions: What is work? —r and what'is,in^ tellectual work? — as soon as they areseen in thefiraxne__' of the interreUtions of life.. What is learning?/Whi?* 
\is wisdom.? What is thinking? What are ^oritX\ aad' discipline? What are authpri^ and \pbedien(^? What is; friendship? What is lowE? What is nam? .IS^rthimiva^ scale of values? 'Which are thelmore importan^^which the less'important" values? Which are not important a^^ 

, all? What are thefinalamis of life? Wfiat aie die meazi^. 
-V , 

to achieve them? / -. _ ""; ~; i (\ ^ ; - eduaitoi^-^^<an ch^ ^ unalterable fact: It u OIULS 
Our students and ourselves live out,of these baac way aind our sttfdent^ vraiy^-to persrao^ . ledities. We live for them and with them. As teachers, A ' ^If-'a. penoa'doesjQot do justice tolHim, his whole we^r^ulate.and reform them. But'do we know what -. ^ being n^iy well be sick- and all forms of neiuoses may they are? Do we know their real nature? Sometimes 'result. And it'wouldnotbe sensiMe, iii proffering diese-I think we do not;'otherwise we would not deal with, various ideas and su^estions,,finally^toB^lect die only 
.them so carelessly. We miKt learn them^again, liot only point at whicB^ in trying to embody them, we'can suc­logically and rationally but essentiaUy,"so that wieknow . ceed, or JaiL. Cortainly tfciou^ our meditation upon their real nature and real meaning-^ and learning ibem this final and eternally persisting! relatibnshq), "we shall ourselves permits our students to leam diem with us. '; reai^ tholimitaticms of our little .ocaturely worlds; 
ThirdL.And Eore I am lei tb.emphaaze the nieed we shall, asTSabrid. Maitel, suggpts, be,put on our~ to conserve and to develop the virtues of reverence. iThe guard, as>teacheis vand students and as men of ar^ high virtue of reverence, should he, m intellectual drcles, -^ science,and learning altogether against hubris., against emphasized first (nothing agaiast excellence is'implied unmeasured "arrogance—^and we may discolvar that "all here but the term has become a .kind of academic and"^ pedajitry and"/caste'spirit and tin-god service" are de^ semantic blank). Reverence signifies regard for the" sub­feated and dissdved. ^ \ -, stance of thingSj of persons, history and nature. The ­
~Of one fact I am convinced: die mode of imder­
virtue of reverence will bring about the growth of . 
'gradiiate education must always be submitted to^the wonder, love and awe, lesiding to a_genuinely creative stiidenfs owndevelopment, to his own call and need to thought and art, a creative science and culture and ^ l>e himself and to dominate or master decently his ex-­indeed a creative citizenry altogether.. The attitude of, , periences ^ther. than to be dcmiinated or mastered or' reverence will keep us from committing acte of agres­overwhelmed by*^them. Each student's existence has to sion against all retries and knowledge — and willhelp be adoidwledged andhe; caimot be deprived of his owii us, out of our respectful recognition of our students to si^le, bis own. way with ideas .and realities. The truth ^ avoid the dangers of instrumentalization and deperson­is that no two students grow towards perfection" in eix­
alization. ^ — . , ' ' actly the same.way.^Failure to grasp this fact can result 
While we know, we~cannot indidge a' foolish faith only in standardization, if not actually in a "massacre of in the good nature of those students comii^ imder us-^ -die 1niM)ceht».*'t <-"" . , (for they will be capable like ourselvw of a variety pf Our students today will not long endure academic sins and weaknesses),-we must avoid the perils of what structures set.up out of dght and out of range of theii­r would like to call academic Jansenism whidi, having living~^presences and pnissures, structures which-in the too low a view of human nature, chronically under-concrete situation may be fpiind irrelevant on-untoward. 
•estimating.human quality, int^rity and decency, crushes At the moment some students have es^Iisiied a out or obstructs the possibilities of great life and growth "free jimverrity" .on die Campus. Its sponM*rs sayNits in our students, deals deathblows • to or igiiOTes their necesdty "qirings from the demands of the students for 
greater intdlectual fulfillment" and frcxn "the feeling "TOTi the part of jdie students that impicntant things they want to know escape them in the normal curriculum." 'To burn down the Dome is not their objective It must te noted, however tiiat through the generations V.. only to make the fact, the history, the student.discussion societies like The Wrimglers and lit­erary-jmrnials like the.older Scrip and newer Juggler
symbolism of its histdry^more meaningful,^ 
have always tried to enlarge and enliven the normal 
" more radiant than ever before." :^ 
curriodar.'experience. Clearly our students will not ^continue to be. omsumers or credit victims, thus saving facility- membersfictMn settling down- in die 7 status of 
-: often- excellent saisibilities and powers of iniagination;' , function^rin or ^business managers. ? 
- For, on "the whole, our students are far, far from being Many, of ^tbe statements made here are familiar 'worms; and we have much more to do than" to observe enoiiq^ to my.colleagues and,students as they are to.the them turn up their bellies in a just agony. . _ faculties and students of other schoolsvl have visited. . Fourth and last: In the'Catholic University of Notre . Since I could not develc^ or concretize my points and 
Dame we are brought to the thought that in our concern " notes herCj^I reconmiendjonly further meditation upcnr , with the works of the mind, we miust'meditate seriously these thoughts, for theydo result from a profound con­about the-final relationship of our existence o^ ""rela­cern for the sanctity of the^person.and personal life,' tion to God through Christ Our Lord. Today in the from an~~acute realization that (persondityy is sacred. 
1 university the"* religious, liturgical, and sometimes pente-It is evident to me that the Notre-Dame student is ~' costal than formalistic, aesthetic and pietistic concern tnily^a person... He ^annot-be cat^rized. He cannot -~oL the student may seem to be more theolc^cal.' But be pat ^irawling on a pin. J t is not power he wants in the inids"t~~of his understandable crises of-faith and butajecogdhiMi, in^the impersonal power-world of the 
~ .\doubt, the student senses that man is "iiot a being suffi-_ 60s, c^tbe< fact that-he wants tO-be—^and will be—a 1 cient unto himself who can acknowledge'this relation-. perscm, free, open and creative.' ; -­
~^p or reject it, precisely as'he thinks and decides. And Fiiiallyy I ^ve written these wmds in the ALUMNUS •- thie way in which he imderstands^this relationship, how' . with pride in .the Notte Dame/students of the,past, 
•^ seriously he takes it—all this determines, the nature of with confidence and joy in, those-of the-preseiitand -his life, his work. Jus vocation. This is so. No phi-with faith in thosef^of the future. "And with love for ,^lpsopher, no historian, no politician, "no poet-^-and no ^. ail. TpAXir.'" . •' .':.^-, , N ...^ ••• •, ••. ^•. 
38 , ' ••/• -• i-' .• V 1 .v ^ AlUMNUS,NOV»lBE« I W DECEMBEH ' 
./­
Editor's Note on 
STUDENT POWER 

Except for Professor Frank O'Malley's overview, the story of "student power" on this campus was told only by Notre Dame students. O'Malley, whose asso­ciation with the student body goes back to 1928, provided the historical perspective for this latest student movement. This was, then, the stu­dents' own show, an unrestricted op­portunity for them to speak their piece 
— to tell Alumni how they view their own role in the University community. 
But speaking as both alumnus and editor, I hope the issue will not end here. I know among Alumni and even within the student body itself there are many who view the issue diifer­endy. I hope these jjeople, as well as those who endorse these views, will contribute their own thinking on a subject which affects the essence of the University. 
This magazine welcomes all points of view as it has with other topics: Change in Today's Church, Academic Freedom and The Lost Image. Hope­fully, the response will be such that in a future issue we can give adequate space to "How the University and Alumni Look at Its Students." 
FRANK M. LINER^N 
P.O. BOX 5000 
BINGHAMPTON, N.Y. 13902 

1943 
Class agent JOE HAGGAR is chairman of the Crossroads Committee in Dallas to inform the public on the proposed $115 million bond program. 
O. J. KEYS has opened the Bob Key's Travel Agency at 132 N. Rodeo Dr., Beverly Hills, Calif. 
We express the s>-mpathy of the Class and offer our prayers for D.AVE CONDON'S mother, Mrs. Lcona Condon. 
I had the opportunity to see a few of otir classmates at the lou-a game. *'M.WOR JOE" BR.ADY, still of Jolict, sat right behind mc. Saw FRANK "BUD" MALONE but not to speak to. Ran into JOHN LA VERY in the basement of the 
PETER P. RICHISKI 6 ROBIN PLACE OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 

1946 
I am very pleased to report that a number of 
fellow classmates have responded to my plea for 
peu-5. This is most encouraging especially when 
you are trying to \mte a column for such a 
small class. Keep those notes and cards coming 
in. 
Bro, CAJETAN HOLLAND CSC celebrated his 

25th anniversarj' of his religious vows in June 
ivith his brother Rev. Jerome Holland OSA cele­
brating the Mass for the occasion. Brother Cajetan 
is currently at ND HS, W. Haven, Conn. T. J. 
VARG.A, VP of Emmco Ins. Co. the last two 
years has been promoted to asst. VP for the 
Indianapolis region of Associate Discount Corp., 
a subsidiary of Associates Investment Co. 
Through the receipt of a kind note from BOB 
JACK MILES 3218 BENTLEY LANE SOUTH BEND, IND. 46613 

1947 
FOOTBALL PRIZE UP FOR GRABS Now that it is established the Fighting Irish will not go undefeated again this year (this is being written Oct. 22, thus tlie strange tense), scores of entries in our football sweepstakes on the Reunion questionnaires arc out the window. By the time this appears in print, we'll know (1) the season tally and (2) tlic winner of the grand prize. One thing we don't know yet is what the prize is, but it'll be something at least moderately worthwhile. 
WEEKEND SEEN 
Early football dates at the stadium brought some 

men of '47 back for a look at the action. While 
awaiting the outcome of the American League 
pennant race JOHN McH-\LE trekked in for a 
look-see at the ND-California game. John, as­
sistant to the commisaoner of baseball, was ac­
companied by S.AL FIORELLO and was hob­
nobbing in the stadium >TLrd with Lydia and 
FR-ANK GILHOOLEY. And JOHN MOELLER 
phoned to say hello before witnessing the remake 
of the Trojan Horse gambit on the Irish sward 
GEORGE J. KEEN.\N 
177 ROLLING HILLS RD. 
CLIFTON, N.J. 07013 

1948 
Something really happened since the last issue of 
the Ai-tJMSUS and since then I haven't nusscd a 
mail call. The yellow cards have really been 
coming in and it looks like it is really the word 
from the gu>-s tlicmselves and the kids aren't 
filling out the cards. I just hope I can get all 
the info into this column and keep within the 
limits prescribed. Besides the cards wc had those 
who exercised their options and wrote to Notre 
Dame \vhere this information was collected and 
fon\*arded to mc to be included in the column. 
Dr. M. W. WILCOX writes to us from Dallas and admittedly "for the first time ever" tells us that after getting his BS at ND he re­ceived a doctorate from ND in 1961 and was associate prof, at the U. of Arizona in '61-'62. Presently he is prof, of solid mechanics and mech. cngr. at Southern Methodist U. and also dir. of the Solid Afechanics Center at SMU In­stitute of Technology. TOM CONLEY writes to us from Pearl City, Haw-aii that he has been in Army Intelligence since the Korean War and is in his 10th year with G-2, US Army at Fort Shafter in Honolulu. 
BOB TAYLOR is still in Skancateles, N.Y. and is now in the eng. dept. at S>Tacu5e U. Bob 
Caf where we reminisced of the dbys wc worked 
in the dining halls. John is an attorney and 
assistant secretary of the Afasonite Corp., Chicago. 
Had a nice chat %%-ith Dean TOM BERGIN 
in Continuing Ed. Center. Father CHARLES 
CAREY CSC dropped in and doesn't look any 
different than he did when he was in Walsh. 
Prof. WES BENDER is still the same and was 
reminiscing about putting a cement floor in his 
basement. A great crew — SADOW5KI, DON­
NELLY, WALTHERS, GARRY and a few 
othen. 
The Campus still gives you that "special feel­
ing." Offered prayers for our Classmates at Sorin 
Hall Chapel and the Grotto. Looks as if Tom 
Bergin's old room in Sorin is going to be a 
lounge — I think it was that in '44 and '45. 

BROWN, I now discover that both RUDY LOPEZ and ED FISHER have been dethroned as ''Father of the Cbss of '46.'* Bob's family con­sists of 12 children. Oldest son Mike (bom at ND) is a medic in the Army; Patrick (also bom at ND} is a freshman at the U. of Wisconsn. The other 10 arc at home. Bob is program dir. for ballistic missiles prog, for AC Electronics Div. of General Alotors in Afilwaukce. He lives at 13450 Brook Ave., Elm Grove, Wis. 53122 and would like to hear from some old buddies. Phone number is 414-782-4453. 
ROBERT £ . IbL\CK AID also dropped me a line. He is prof, of medicine, Wayne State U. School of Medicine and is a director at Hutzcl Hosp.» Detroit. His wife Patty and their five children live at 3020 Westview Ct., Bloomfield Hills, Minn. Afost of Bob's time is devoted to medical school affairs, hospital administration and 
(translation; NT)—7, Southern Cal—25). John is with the PR dept. of Cook County, 111. 
MAILBOX 

Father WALTER BOZEK uses one of the yellow cards from the ALUSINUS to report, "I am now teaching full time at Immaculate HS in Danbury, Conn, and am in residence at St. Alary's rectory m Ridgefield." SAM ADELO, "Mr. Oil Slick" himself, sends mc an article about him published in a recent issue of Petroleo Interamericano, which he says is the Spanish "sister" of ^ e OH and Gas Journal. The piece relates how Sam's mastery of Spanish, Arabic and several other European tongues has buffed added luster to his brilliant professional career. 
GLEANTNGS 

While in Chicago in early fall, I had a pleasant phone chat with JACK NOONA N supervisor of the FBI's fugitive section there. He has a son in minor seminary. Jack managed to make it to South Bend for the California clash and then home again right afterward. Chaplain Maj. WILFRID A. MENARD CSC is stationed at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Klaryland after tours in Germany and Korea. 
and his wife are expecting their 10th child in January. We agree with you Bob that things haven't been slow. No use being an actor when you can be a producer. We look forward to seeing you at the Reunion if you can find time to get away. Dr. D.AVE MOSIER is now prof, of pediatrics at the U. of California Ir%^ne Col. of Medicine. His main area of responsibility is heading the div. of metabolism and endocrinology and has been carrying out research in the area of central ner\'ou5 sj-stem control of physical growth. Dave's wife Afarjorie is enrolled in the UCLA School of Afedicine. 
LARRY TURNER writes "sign mc up for the Reunion next June." Larry is still in Indianapolis where he is law editor of Indiana Decisions a weekly reporting service for lawyers in the Hoosier state. Larry gets to see JOE QUILL regularly and 
REUNION '68 

ALUMNUS Editor JOHN THURIN '59 entertained 
mth coffee and doughnuts Saturday am. I was a 
little disappointed in some of the unnecessary 
responses at the Pep Rally and also a sign at 
the game. Just an "Old Grad," I guess. 
Tsdked to Chiss president BILL KLEM on the phone. JIM RETTER, former Class president, has been promoted to mgr. customer service for chonicak and plastics. Union Carbide, with head­quarters in NYC. Dr. F. GILBERT McMAHON iias been tuuned executive director of medical re­search of the Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Labs, in West Point. 
How about putting us on your Christmas card list and send us some news with your greetings. Merry Christmas and Happy and Prosperous 
New Year. 
a small private practice in research. FRANK FOSS is now hack at N D as a staff member of the Center for Continuing Education. He, his wife Yvonne and their six children had been living in Southern California. An invitation to visit him is extended to all members of the Class who happen to return to the Campus. The Foss family now make their home at 1935 Trent Way, South Bend 46614. JOE ZIMMERMAN took time out to write that he is employed with his father as distributor for American Oil Co. in Lake Charles, La. Joe is married and has four children, a boy 15 and three daughters 19, 17 and 
11. Kindly stop in to say hello to Joe if you happen to be in the vicinity of Lake Charles. A final note: your secretary is a candidate for the Board of Tax Review, Greenwich, Conn. 
Hope to hear from you other classmates so that we can look forward to more enjoyable columns. 
JAMES W. KELLY, first secretary of the US embassy in Rome, is hoping for a Washington as­signment sometime in 1968 so he can sec ND again before it expands out of sight. RAY FRANKLIN has moved from Atkinson, N.H. where he has been principal of a school as I recall, to Turners Falls, Mass. What brings you "daow-n" to lifass., Ray? 
Still in the educational field, RAY STRUBLE is teaching math at North Carolina S. in Raleigh, N.C., and BOB REINDERS is on the faculty at Tulane in "N'awlins." Other address changes of note: BOB CANNON from Des Moines to Binghamton, N.Y.; WILMONT KERR from Denver to Houston; Rev. JOHN WILLIAM GREENE from Washington, D.C. to AfcAIIen, Tex. BOB VEENEMAN from Louisville to Miami; and JOHN PAINTER from Rocky Afount, N.C. to Philly. 
BEGINNING AND ENT> 

Within a seven-day period we obser\'c two events .. . a beginning in the miracle of man's salvadon which we call Christmas and the end of another year. May the spirit of Noel give you the perspective to put '67's mistakes and sorrows behind you and the grace to take advantage of every opportunity 1968 affords you and yours. 
reports that he is getting along fine in his law' practice. While in Madison, Ind. he saw JOHN READY O'CONNOR and says that John is getting along fine since a serious automobile ac­cident a couple of years ago. LooUng forward to seeing you too, Larry, at the Reunion. Going to try for class pres. again? I think wie're ready for a new one. . . . 
JOHN P. FITZPATRICK writes from Arling­ton Heights, III. that he wants to help make the Reunion a successful one and volunteers to be a local committeeman. That's the spirit. What does a local delegate do? He probably gets a few guys together and they plan to car pool it or even have one wife drive them to South Bend and another wife pick them up. That's team woric and gets the wife into the mood of the Reunion, too. (That is not limited to classmates nvith two wives but classmates each with a wife.) John is with the Byron Jackson Div. of Borg-Wamer Corp. and has his office in the Chicago 3Loop although he travels through the Midwest. 
RUDY KEMPTER volunteers to help reunionize the Washington, DC area and will be contacting some of the classmates in that area just as soon as we feed him the names. He recommends JOHN CRONIN in Charlotte, N.C. and BOB PERCIVAL in the PitUburgh area for the same job. Is that agreeable to you, John and Bob? 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

Rudy recently joined the office of the Secretary 
of Defense as senior valve engr. BRAD BENNETT 
out in Pomona, Calif, wants to have classmates 
of '48 and maybe others with amilar Reunion 
dates at N D to organize an Air Charter Flight 
and he'll he glad to handle the details. Brad is 
in the business dept. at West Covina HS as a 
teacher. He also coaches the cross-country team. 
Brad received his MS in Ed. this year at U. of 
Southern California. Brad and his wife along 
vdth four children are residing at 1574 Valencia 
PI., Pomona for those wanting to make plans 
to fly to, during and from the 20th Reunion. 
At the SUMMA luncheon in Neu-ark last wieek 

1 saw HANK DiGIROLAMO, MOOSE COONEY, 
ART STATUTO, LEO COSTELLO, FRANK 
TRIPUCKA, ANGELO BERTELLI, GENE 
ANGUILLl and many others. Those in our Qass 
all indicate that they are looking forward to the 
Reumon particularly to elect a new Class secre­
tary. FRANK TRIPUCKA and ANGELO BER­
TELLI just returned from Germany where they 
attended the beer festival in Munich for their 
fine performance in achieving sales quotas in the 
Lowenbrau sales contest. From Germany they 
went over to Verona, Italy where Bertelli's rela­
 WESLEY 155 DRimVOOD LANE ROCHESTER. N.Y. 14617 

ifii 
LEO L. 
I don't want any of you nonwriting members of the Class to relax when I say this, but I find myself in the wonderful position of having over a dozen ycHow reply cards from which to de­velop this column! Not to mention a couple letters and various news tidbits from the Alumni Office. "It falleth like the gentle rain . . ." but I wouldn't mind a flood-A backlog for two consecutive issues? Incredible! 
Brt). JOHN H. NOLAN FSC used the card as he wrote from Bishop Bradley HS in Manchester, 
N.H. to inform us that he worked a year at Brooklyn Catholic Charities doing social wt>rk and in Nov., 1950 joined the Brothers of Chris­tian Schools. He since tuis obtained MAs in his­tory and religion followed by hours of duty in Brooklyn, Narragansett, R.I. and now Bishop Bradley. He*d like to hear from his friends. 
BOB LEANDER came through in solid Badin Hall fashion to tell me that he and his \rife Ricky arc still in the Chicago area (Glcncoe, HI.). Used to be a small town — Bob and Ricky have added five girls and three boys ranging from 16 to 2. This represents only one aspect of his success. Bob spent 11 years in the advertising business and then switched to another family operation. Mystic Tape, in 1960. Two years later the Borden Co. bought them out and that's how you do it, Charlie. Says he "took up tennis with BOB BATES a few years back — been fine for weight but not worth a hoot for the hair." 
PETE KERNAN wrote me a letter incorporating news as well as some straight thinking on future material for this column (not distant future cither!) Pete mentioned visiting Campus recently with hb wife Ann, having a quiet dinner with 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 MONSERRATE ST. CORAL GABLES, FLA. 33146 

1930 
A happy and holy Christma$-tlme and a success­ful New Year to each and every one of you in every way. 
It was a pleasure to see some of our classmates represented on Campus at the kickofF of the SUMMA Program on Sept. 10-11: JOHN CE­LUSTA, PAUL HUDAK, WALTER McGUlRE JR, DON RATCHFORD, JIM SEBOLD JR, JIM SLATTERY, GENE SMITH and PAUL MACK SCHAEFER. 
Mrs. (Louise) DICK EYKHOLT reports that she and Dick have been in Ft. Wayne since 1959, where he has been the organist and choir director at St. Charles Church and also conducts music classes in the school. Of their five boys and four girls they have one set of twins. All are doing well. Another nice card from HOW­ARD WURTH, Jackson, Mich, who is a con­sulting engineer at Commonwealth Associates Inc. He has two children, Elizabeth 11 and Jimmy 6. His work carries him to Hartford, Conn, often and he would like to hear from classmates in that area. 
DON CLEARY, Ft. Wa^-ne reports that he was transferred by Magnavox from Urbana, 111. to Ft. Wayne as production engineer last June. 
tives have varied wine interests. After an in­teresting visit to the vineyards and wineries along with the breweries Bert and Frank both have a better understanding of the fundamentals for their wholesale and retail beverage buaness. Frank is for wholesale, Bert sells retaul. 
PETE BAKER has moved from Bristol, Conn-to Huron, Ohio. ED McBRIDE has relocated from Cleveland to Coral Gables, Fla. and JIM SACKINGER has moved from Horseheads, N.Y. to Palo Alto, California. "CORNY" STYERS received his PhD from the U. of Iowa last June. Congratulations. Dr. GEORGE A. CYPHER has joined Natvar Corp. in Woodbridge, N.J. as VP and technical dir. and has also been elected to the Board of Directors. BOB BACH was recently appointed national accounts sales mgr. for the 
A. B. Dick Co. in Chicago. GEORGE M. TULLY of Pelham, N.Y. has been elected sec. of the Tully-Starrett Corp. a new textile corporation. PAUL THEIS, PR du-. for the Republican Congressional Committee has co-cditcd with a member of the Democratic party, a nonpartisan directory of complete biographical data on lead­ing political figures from the presidential to the precinct level. "Who's Who in American Politics" 
Rev. WILLIAM NEIDHART CSC and Rev. JAMES RIEHLE and a not so quiet game of bridge. (They let the padres win.) Father Bill has very recently been reassigned from duties as asst. publisher of Ave Maria Press to his new charge as asst. pastor at Sacred Heart Parish and Village chaplain. Father Jim has also been asked to broaden his sphere of knowledge and influence as he has been named dean of students at Notre Dame. I can't help but recall the wtirds of the Mass — *'it is truly light and just, fitting and proper." 
GEORGE NICHOLS JR sent me a card with news good and bad. He asks first that we pray for the soul of his dad who was killed in a car accident on May 11. His dad was not an Alum­nus, but as so many of us know by our o%ra experience, our dads love Notre Dame as much as we. Please pray for George Nichols Sr. George updated my files by teUing me that he and his wife Ann have a fine healthy family of three boys and three girls aged 9 through 14. George works for the dept. of Public Wdtare in Florence, S.C. where he is project dir. for a two-county work experience and traimng program. 
Almost in the same mail delivery came a card from JOHN KENNEDY of Occanside, N.Y. You catch your breath for a moment when you realize you have mail from the FBI, but that's our John. He is a resident FBI agent at Kennedy Airport, NYC and welcomes a call or visit by any '49crs passing through. Hasn't been back to Campus since graduation and definitely plans on making the '69 Reunion so he can rave a bit about his fine family of six girls and three lads. 
Want to hear some beautiful names? These come to you courtesy of LEE MARA and bis wife Sue, formerly Sue Moran. On Feb. 15 Lee was presented with twin giris Kathleen and 
He has twin boys, Rit and Mike aged 15 and Barbara 13. In their spare time the Clearys play a little golf and some duplicate bridge. JACK WILLI.AMS reports from Laurl Gardens, Htts­burgh that he moved from Wheeling, W.Va. to Pittsburgh at graduation, has six children, has been in the insurance business since 1953. He has heard from JACK WHEELER in New York and would like to hear from GUS BREZEL, BENNY MUNSEL and others. He is planning, as I hope all of us are, to attend our 20th Re­union in two and a half yean. BOB SAVASKE reports that he and his wife Janet and children Kandace 18, Robert 16, Mary 15, Margaret 12 and Patrick 5, reside in Merrill, Wis. where he is VP of the Citizens American Bank of Merrill. BERNIE MULHOLLAND reports from Burling­ton, N.J. of his recent trip (with wife Peggy and children Maureen and Bemte) to the Campus. 
DICK SOISSON reports Ann Mary as No. 7, giving him three girls and four boys. He is the athletic director and football coach at Hackett HS, Kalamazoo. Dick has been elected pres. of the Michigan State Athletic Directors Assn. for 1968. Congratulations. ND's regular left guard TOM McKINLEY is one of Dick's former players. JACK BECKHAM reports from Toledo that his father WILLIAM L. BECKHAM '15 died Aug. 4. May he be in all of our prayers. Jack and his wife, the former Josefina Gimpero was published in July. VINCE DOYLE, 
sports dir. aiHl gea. sales mgr. lor WSJV-TV m 
Elkhart has joined the faculty at WawMee IVcp 
School in Syracuse, Ind. He heads the scboaT* 
speech dept. and win coach l»—1»*^»| ^ 
Wdl, I must say that this has bcesi an >»• 
terestiiig cohunn. It is more bet than fietioa 
and it depends oa the infotmatioB lent in. I 
hope we can get continued intenst for A e 
Reunion because the IStb was sort of ad . W« 
seem to have some exdtement and intenst goin^ 
so talk it up, make some plans irith othen in your 
area who may have a Reuiuon year also and pb a 
to attend. VU be looking to hear from yoa all 
and some of you wiU be hearing from m ^ espe­
cially the volunteen, ilekgates, oiganiien, et c 
We still lack someone from the South Bend area 
to prearrange things and meet with the CTIWIT'W 
people who run these affairs. H-E-L-P ! 
RtumioM Stpstnaus: Bob LcToumeaii, Chock 
Cuculln, Tom Herbert, Brad Bennett, Rody 
Kempter, John Fitzpatrkk, Larry Turner, Dave 
tlosier. Bob Taylor, Gene Dean, Bunky Ref^m, 
Leo Costello, Hank DiGirdamo, Art Statoto, 
Moose Cooney, Bill Fitzharris, Hany Zeibtra, 
George Muhnmey and Jim Ledwith. 
Colleen who jmncd Maureen 6. Shannon 5, Mi­diael 3 and Sheila 2. The Maias left Toledo in '63 for Midland, Mich, where Lee is adver­tising mgr. of the engineering prodocts dir. of Dow Coming Corp. He sees VINCE BOYLE at various club funcrions. Vincc is with BGd­hnd's AUen Dow Assoc, Axclutects. Lee at­tended last fall's Army anid MSU games and is looking forward to our b ^ 20tfa in '69. 
Remember our star sonthpaw with the hot pro basdnll contract in his hip po^t , DICK SMULLIN? Got a message from "Lefty" him­sdf marked 56 Saratoga Ave., Bn^ngton, Vt. Says IKck, "played basdiall for seven years whidi fooled up my mail but plenty. Itfoving, moving! Now Rosemary and I and our five yuungstcii make Burlii^ton home rince I am the meifical rep for South, KHae and French Labs of Phita^ delphia, FU. I hear from JIM 'MIDGET RACER' MURPHY every few months. Best rcganb to everyone. See you in '69." 
CHARLES WATERS checked in on a leply card marked RR 1, Ewen, Mich. He cscplahied that after a few years as a physical instnactor for the Chic^o Park Dist. he moved to the upper peninsula of Michigan to teach phys. ed. and coach wrestling and track. He and I ^ wife Arlyss and their three boys and two girls enjoy their life "on 160 acres of woods in the Ottawa National Forest." His cross*country teams most be murder. 
Out of space again. But you can help me meet my assignment next trip by exchanging news vui Christmas cards. Check up on one or two or three Class members and then brief me-on any news bits you come upon. Just a qiuck note to me will mean much. May you all know a warm and cheerful and holy Christmas season atxl may '68 have the answers to your biggest problems. 
Aktorrc, now Uve in Toledo but nu^ntsun thur home in Mexico City. JIM KRONER reports from LaCrosse that he and his wife Maodne and family of seven children, three boys and four girb, arc now in their new home. He is in the hanhvare business as an architectnxal hardware consultant. He sees JOE BECKER, Father TOM NINNEMAN, HANK FUNK, JERRY HEBER­LEIN and DON WELCH. 
He reports that GILES HACKNER moved to Green Bay and is with the Gateway Transpor* Ution there. JIM CREAMER'S urife reports from Norwalk, ObM. Jim is the sales staff opeiatioos manager for New Departure*Hyatt Div. of Gen­eral Motors in Sandusky. He and his wife Shirley (O'Brien) have two boys and two girls. ED HUDAK is worting in Bethlehem, Fa. for Bethlehem Steel and b asst. coach at Leiugh U. He married Kathleen McDonndl and they have four children Edward Jr. 6, Shane 5, Biary Beth 3 and Kevin, bom June 13. Honorary Alumnus of our Class TOM SEXTON of Toledo, a para­plegic from polio, has three boys and twin girls^ is a sales broker in printing and insurance known as Tommy Sexton Services. RAY SULLIVAN reports from Cedar Rapids. After spcni£ng three years in Atlanta he is now in production with Collins Radio in Cedar Rajuds, working on a master's degree at the U. of Iowa and has five of hb ax duUrcn in scfaooL 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
Congrats 
Leo Blaber Jr. '50, vice-president and general counsel of First Federal Savings and Loan Association in Chicago, has been named corporate secretary of the firm, the largest savings and loan in Illinois. In addition to his bank train­ing, he holds a law degree from De Paul Universit>- and is a member of the Illinois Bar. 
John G. Kelly '50 was promoted to assistant vice-president of Mutual of New York and was named an admin­istrative officer, .^n attorney, he joined the public relations department of MONY after ser\'ing 14 years in the legal department. In his new position he will administer and coordinate a staff of public relations specialists. A magna cum laude graduate of the Uni­

LEO BLABER '50 J. G. KELLY '50 J. M. 
4 A r ^ JAMES JENNINGS 1 U rk 1 BORG-WARNER CORP. I Sa l I 200 S. MICHIGAN AVE. M.^VM. cHia\GO, ILL. 60604 The Class extends its s^Tnpathy to the father of JACK CORYN of Rock Island who was killed in a plane crash in Canada last month. Please remember Jack in your prayers. Thanks to several midwestcm classmates ^vho fon\*ardcd this in­formation to us. 
BOB RAYMOND %\TOtc from Jacksonville, Fla. where he and his wife Donna have lived for seven years. They '.\iU move soon and we will publish the new address as soon as wc hear from Bob. Tim family includes three bo>-s, Paul (7), Robert (5) and James (3). Bob is in wholesale appliance distribution business in Florida and Georgia handling such brands as Motorola, Amana and Hamilton. Note to JOCKO MULDOON: Bob is giving up the boat to concentrate on golf vnth Jack at the Reunion in 1971. 
JOE MOSCHELLA and his wife, the former Tina Marotta, live at 20 Grandview Terr, at Staten Island, N.Y. 10308. Their four children are Vincent (12), Drew (10), Mary Beth (7) and JoAnn (2). Joe is Dean of Discipline and coaches the golf and bo^vling teams at New Dorp HS. At the SUMMA Kickoff Dinner in NYC Joe \-isited with KEN THOREN, DENNY O'NEILL, CORKY DESMOND, BOB ED­MONDSON, HANK McCORMACK and DICK KOSMICKI. Joe would really like to hear from Ills health cd. classmates so please drop him a line. 
DICK DOLAN reported from his home at 808 
W. Tcchny Rd. in Arlington Heights, III. Dick is now dir. of automotive events for the Pure Oil Co. Dick worked in the same dept. at Pure with JOHN GROSSPIETSCH. Handling the auto races kept Dick pretty busy until four years ago when he slowed down enough to marry Bctty-They now have t^vo daughters, Kathleen and llai^aret. 
JIM LAUGHLIN who is with the FBI resides with his wife Joanne and family at 9728 E. 50th St., Kansas City, Mo. The Laughlins have four children, Kathleen (II), Suzanne (10), James (8) and Donald (2). Jim would like to hear from his classmates. 
DICK SHIPiLAN (you recall he \vas hiding 
 / 
ALUMN/ /N THE NEWS 
versity, he received his law degree from Fordham U. 
Joseph M. Dukerl '51 was appointed 
state chairman of the Maryland Re­publican Party. Formerly vice-chairman of the state GOP, he has served the party in vEirious positions of leadership on both the state and national levels. In addition to his political activities he is also an independent public relations consultant and an author of two books. 
James F. Garvin '52 recently was 
unanimously chosen director of the Industrial Development Service of Al­buquerque, N.M. He formerly served as general manager and secretary for the Fort Worth Chamber Developmtl^ Corp. In his new post he vdll be re^ sponsible for providing multiple out­lets for industrial and community-re­lated development. 

Col. Malham M. Wakin '52 was named full professor and head of the depart­ment of philosophy and fine arts at the US.^F Academy. His academic promotion from assistant dean for graduate programs carried with it mili­tary promotion to full colonel. 
Ronald E Zier '52 has been appoint­ed director of public relations for War­ner-Lambert Phannaceutical Co. He joined Warner-Lambert from Howard Chase Associates, a New York counsel­ing iinn, where he had served as a vice-president. He lives in Glen Rock, 
N.J. with his wife and four children. 
Royd V. Blair 53 has been named vice-president for sales of Plas-Steel Prod­ucts, Inc., manufacturers of fiberglas products. He was formerly general manager of Alside, Inc., B.A.S.C.O. Div. in Akron, Ohio. 
 DUKERT '51 J. F. GARVIN *52 COLONEL WAKIN 52 R. E. ZIER '52 F. V. BLAIR '53 
behind a thick set of whiskers at the Reunion) writes from No. 12 5 St., N.E., Washington, DC 20002 that after leaving ND Law School in '55 he has been admitted to the Bar in Indiana and Illinois. Dick has since been a commerce attorney and works for the GAO. He is still active in fencing, both physically and in the organizations, as well as being a pres. of the local St. Vincent DePaul Society and a member of many other organizations. In Jan. '64 Dick married Avril Quiggin and converted her from a British subject. Their first child Timothy Scott was bom March 1 of this year. 
TED FERDINAND writes from 104 Round Wood Rd., Newton, Mass. 02164 and be has more degrees than my tlicrmomcter. Ted received his master^s from Purdue and PhD from Michigan. He has taught sociology at Northeastern U. for six years and is now an assoc prof. His first book. Typologies of Delinquency^ was published last year and another The American Nation is under way for the same publisher. Random House. Seven years ago Ted married Jane Fisher, and they now have two bo>-s, Teddy (5) and Lorrin (9 months). 
Also heard from VINCE ST£. &IARIE, now an agent for State Farm Ins., ^vho resides at 1407 N, Lynndale Dr. in Applcton, Wise 549II. \^nce and his wife Joanne have five children, Mike (13), Drcux (11), Lisa (6). Terry Ja (4) and Tim (2). 
•\^nce was in Chicago for one year when he set up the pbys. cd. system at St. Philomcna and he coached at St. Iklary's in Menasha for four years. Vince missed the last Reunion because he jammed a knee playing ball with his boys but heMI be there in 1971. 
DICK BIRMINGHAM is another lad who went astray (law school). His Navy duty lasted from *51 to *54 and he was graduated from the U. of Buffalo Law School in 1957. He was a legal ass't in the app. div., 4th Dcpt., NY Sup. Ct. to 1960 when he became associated with Riillips, Lytle, Hitchcock, Blaine and Huber where he became a partner two years ago. In 1961 Dick married Sue M. Cannon of Buffalo and they have three children, BaH}ara (5), Maureen (4) and Greg (3). Dick and hb family live at 599 Ashland Ave. in Buffalo. 
DENNY O'NEILL has lived at 8 Covcwood 
Dr., Rouayton, Conn, for two years. His wife, 
the former Pat Skclly (Barat *59) mentioned they 
spent tliree very interesting years at No. 10 Down­
ing St. in Greenwich Village. Denny is eastern 
div. mg. for Newspaper Enterprise Assoc, E. 43 
St., NY. Their three children arc Sarah Angele 
(3), Dennis John II (2), and Margaret Dorothy 
(1). Their next hcir/heircss is expected at any 
moment. The O'Neills have recently seen Marie-
Cbirc and PRESTON MURPHY who live at 88 
Deer Path Lane, Weston, Mass. In that location 
they should run over to Pope John XXIII Semi­
nary and visit our old friend FRED BRICE, now 
in his third year. 
TOM BOL.AND split a pizza with us during a recent visit. His boy Mike (6) is turning into such a good catcher, Mary Jo and Tom have adopted Bobby (1) to pitch to Mike. The Bo-lands visited Muff and JIM BEXBOW in October, going with them to the Illinois game. 
DAVE O'LEARY and I had lunch with tvvo lovely young bdies, Dave's older daughters Ann 
(13) and Nora (12) on their way to the Iowa game. Dave is a stock and commodity broker for R. G. Dickinson and Co. in Carroll, Iowa. Dave married Thcrcse Heaslip in 1953 and they also have twin boys. Matt and Mark (10), Jean (9), Mary (5), Scan (2) and Patrick (1). Write to Dave at Box No. 3, Carroll, Iowa. 
JACK BARNETT also stopped for lunch and noted that after some family illnesses things arc back to normal. We see Jack in Washington more often than here or South Bend. Mary Lou and I arc grateful for all the prayers for Patrick's surgery, which was successfully completed last month. We also thank our local friends who gave blood and those who tried but were prevented by a cold or some other irritation. We really appreciate everything that was done. 
Let me start my campaign for nonreclection at this time. The reports in the last Reunion issue indicate that every other Class reelects a different slate of officers at Reunion time. Although there is a tremendous enio>Tnent in rejuvenating these old friendships, this honor could be shared and we will suggest this for 1971. But keep the news coming *till then. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
^VILLIAlkf B. KING 613 E. DONMOYER AVE. 

1953 SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 
OK, sports, if you can't send the Class secre­tary money for Xmas, how about a card to let us know what's going on. 
"TEX" CHISHOLM was thoughtful enough to snap a photo of the concelcbrated Mass at our recent Reunion. He sent pictures to Father "BILL" TOOHEY CSC in Washington, DC with the result that special Mass cards and a picture of the Mass were fonvarded to the families of our deceased classmates. Nice teamwork, fellas. 
JIM HARRIGAN received his PhD in business from U. of Chicago this summer. He has been leaching finance and accounting at the U. of New Hampshire for a year after eight years of teaching at ND. His wife "CLIP" is an ND grad, too. She received an MAT degree in '64. JACK ROSS is now an ofHcer with Foote Min­eral Co. of Exton, Pa. He will take up duties as secretary when he moves there in November \vith his ^\^le and nine children ages 3 to 12. 
An international flavor has hit the Class. PAUL J. SHLICHTA after leaving the Jet Pro­pulsion Lab as a senior scientist to join ad­vanced research laboratories of Douglas Aircraft spent four months in Europe. He delivered papers at scientific meetings in AIoscow and Cambridge. Science had to share the limelight with love as Paul met Miss Ema Kbibor of Hamburg, Germany. Together they returned to San Diego and ^vere married in December. They are now living at 2124 E. First St., Long Beach, Calif. 90803. 
W. F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 JEAN RD. S.E. HUNTSVILLE. ALA. 35803 

193S 
Well, gang, at the time of writing this, we've lost two. I'm still looking forward to seeing the Georgia Tech game, though. And speaking of that the other day my phone rang at work with a call from T. J. THORNTON from BUming­ham, Ala- Hadn't heard from T.J. in many years. So we're planning to get together at the game. You will perhaps remember that T.J.'s uncle is Rev. LOUIS THORNTON CSC, pres­ently placement dir. at ND. 
Have several letters to report and many yellow cards so here w-e go, as the Great One would say! Finally heard from PAT RILEY: "After receiving the July-August ALUMNUS and having spent a pleasant visit vrith Jane and DICK LORENZ at Lake Tahoe this last weekend, I thought I might get some information on the Reunion in hopes I would be able to attend. I was wondering if it might be possible for you to tell me whom I ^v'rite to and what dates will be involved, etc. A lot of w*ater has run under the bridge since our trip to the ND-So. Cal. game many years ago while I \\*as in Law School and I hope that this finds you and yoiu: family well and in good health. 
"My wife Bert and I have two children, Mike 3 and Katie 8. I have settled dovfti to a some­what? quiet life in Placer\'ille, which is a foot­hill town in California approximately 60 miles from Lake Tahoe on US 50. In the event you are traveling out West by yourself or with your family, we certainly Would like to visit with you so stop by. I still make all of the ND-So. Cal. games but unfortunately I don't see too many people I know anymore." Thanks, Pat. His address: 465 Main St., PlacervIIIe. Cal. 95667. 
And here's some news about several of our Class: ALGIE OLDHAM, principal of Colfax School in South Bend, has the added responsi­bility of being principal of the E. M. Morris School for crippled children. JOHN R. O'LAUGH­LIN has been appointed gen. mgr. of the main­tenance sales dept. at Combustion Engineering Inc. RICHARD K. PERRY, a native of Daven­
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 SIGNAL HILL BLVD. £. ST. LOUIS, ILL. 62203 

1934 
TV is really getting bad. Last night a St. Louis station showed the great "Knute Rockne — All American" and they cut out **Win One For the Gipper" — for a beer commercial. No kidding. It was as unbelievable as a quarterback throwing 63 passes in one game — and losing. 
Thanks much for all the yellow cards and letters since the last issue. Be patient 'cause I won't be able to use all the material in this issue. 
JOHN CRONIN MD has been in practice as an internist for four years in Long Beach, Calif. Married and the father of four who range from 1 to 7. He saw FRED SCHLICHTING MD at the Calif.-ND game in '65. Fred is practicing in San Jose, Calif. "Doc" Cronin wants to hear from JOE O'CONNOR and ED WATERS. Speaking of hearing from people JOE BOWLING writes from Louisville that he wants to know why RAY TRTTZ and DOLLO VERRO didn't make it to the Reunion. Joe and NORB GANOB­SIK have decided on a complete Investigation as to what you "swingers" arc doing. 
DICK VIOLA obtained a PhD from NYU where he Is now asst. dean at the grad school of business administration. He is responsible for public relations and development activiues, alumni affairs and the school's executive conferences, sem­inars and lecture series. As an asst. prof, Dick has been teaching in the fields of behavior sciences and management. He is living with his wife and five children in Wcstbury, L.L 
LOUIS H. MEECE has been named VP of sales for American Commercial Barge Line Co, In Jcffersonville, Ind. He is a dir. of the Natl. Coal Policy Conference and a member of the Mississippi Valley Assn., Ohio Valley Improve­ment Assn. and other trade-related organizations. He and his family live In Louisville. JAMES F. MUTSCHELLER CLU, asst. general agent of the Maryland general agency of Natl. Life Ins. Co. of Vermont, lias been elected second VP of the Baltimore Life Underwriters Assn. He recently moderated a life ins. telethon, an hour-long pro­gram over WBAL-TV sponsored by the Union Trust Co. of Md. He will be the analyst on 
port, Iowa, now stationed in Lausanne, Switzer­
land, has been appointed asst. VP of United Shoe 
Afachineiy* Corp.'s International Div. in Lausanne. 
EUGENE P. SULLIVAN has been named ND's newest asst. basketball coach even though he never played while he Avas a student. He did help coach JOHNNY JORDAN as a grad asst. FLOYD V. BLAIR has been named VP for sales of Flas-Stcel Products Inc., a manufacturer of woven fiberglass recreational products and a mde range of fiberglass industrial products. J. GERARD BOEHLING JR has been appointed VP of Car-gill, Wilson & Acrec Inc. of Atlanta, Charlotte and Richmond. ROBERT J. CHRISTOPHER has been promoted to industrial relations rep in the plant industrial relations section of Koppers Industrial Relations Dept. and wiU be respon^Ie for providing industrial relations services to the management of Koppers' various divisions and pbnts. 
Received a nice letter from BOB NIQUETTE, 1134 FlectwTood Dr., Manitowoc, Wis. 54220: "After reading our Class news for so many times and seeing your plea for news I finally am getting around to reporting In. Haven't kept in touch with many classmates as I'm isolated here in Wisconsin without proximity to many. We do not even have an ND Club and sorely miss the chance to get together with any N D members. Perhaps you could put a plea In somewhere that would get a few of us together, anyway. 
"For the past ID years or so my brother TOM '47 and I have been very busy putting together Consumers Steel Co. which we formed In a partnership. We now have over 55 employees and ship fabricated steel parts over a tri-statc area as well as doing structural steel fabricating 
REUNION '68 

Christmas is just around the comer and If you haven't communicated with your ole secretary In the past 10 years or so, drop me a line while you're sending out your Christmas cards. 
Our class reunion party was held as usual after our first home game of the season. It's an annual affair, so plan on it next year. There w'ere 65 or more of your classmates In attendance partaking of the booze and good times. Hats off and deepest appreciation to DICK PILGER, GENE HENRY and their wives for all their efforts. Without their untiring efforts our parties would not exist. 
the broadcastins of the Baltimore Cdts' games this f^. 
LAWRENCE S. FESHEK has been transferred from group leader of packaging and analytical sections to groop leader in charge of all house­hold products for the SImonIz Co. at the Wood­stock, HI. research center. FRANK P. DOYLE has been appcnnted VP of employee relations for Western Union, NYC He and I^ «^e Joan and then: three chiblrcn Uve at U 2 Lake Dr. W., Wayne, N.J. NORBERT JOSEPH GANOBSIK rcceivai his &CBA from Western Reserve U. in Cleveland in June. 
GEORGE HERBERT GROSS receded his MA In phys. ed. from Western Reserve U. in Cleve­land in June. M. HAYES KENNEDY has been appointed director of industrial engineering for 
R. J. Reynolds Foods Inc. of NYC. FRANK JAMERSON was a speaker at an August con­ference on cSrect energy conversion at the Argonne Natl. I.aborator7. He Is a supervisory research physicist at the GM Research Lab m Warren, Mich. CONRAD L. ARNOLD is now product manager of fluid drives for Amexican Standard Industrial Products Dept. in Detrtut. 
Maj. WHXU M F. DELANEY has been awarded the USAF Educational Achievement Award at Torrejon AB, Spain. He was selected for the award for his accomplishments in the off-duty education program. He is a supply staff officer In SAC. Dr. FRANCIS McCAFFREY is a guest scientist in physics at the dept. of the Army's materials and mechanics research center in Wateitown, Mass. and Is also head of the dept-of phydcs at Boston CoL 
for multi-story buHdings. Personally, Audrey and I have four children now ages 11, 9, 6 and 2. This past year we designed and fa^t a new two-story colonial home and this spring have been very busy with the yard vfoA. I am looldi« fon^-ard to our next Reunion as Has one mill be a must for me — not having made one yet." Many thanks. Bob. 
Wow! And now for a reaHy long one from JACK DILENSCHNEIDER: "Class of '53 Alumni who are in Columbus, Ohio Include ROGER ZOELLNER who is with Trane Inc., JOE FINAN with Columbus Coated Fabrics and BOB KOSY­DAR, who is managing partner in the law firm of Brownfield, Kosydar, Folk and Yearling. While practicing law last year I had occasion to work with DAVE EARDLEY who has a law practice in Chardon, Ohio and fellow Sub-Sorin resident LEO CAHALAN who is a member of a law firm In Detroit." (Always glad to hear about fellow Sub-Sorinltes!) 
"Rody (SMC '54) and I had an eighth child Csixth boy) on Christmas Day, 1966 and a meek' later I was appointed federal bankruptcy referee, for the Southern DIst. of OhioJ (With eight kids. Jack, yon ought to know something about that subject!) At a conference this past year I ran into the highly regarded Toledo U. prof, of law JOHN STOEPLER and on a trip to Washington, DC two months ago spent a few hours with FRANK JACKMAN who is UPI ovenught ecfitor there. Last month I was a member of a team giving a Cursillo and was pleasantly surprised to meet GEORGE BLUBAUGH who came doKrti from Mi. Vernon, Oluo, to speak at the doauig ceremonies. 
"One question for the Class: h the Haldan D< Tompkins, who has arranged so many hymns in ­the Peoples Mass Book, the same HAL TOMP­KINS who used to alternate with JOHN HEL-. MAN on the piano at Dragoons?" Gee, what a swell letter! Jack's address: 2555 Berwyn, Colum­bus, Ohio 43221. 
Although I have many yellow cards to go it looks like I'm out of the space allocated to the Class so will have to close. Keep rooting! Keep writing! 
Among those who took time to sign the register were: DICK ASH, JERRY DIXON, DICK "CHOKE-UP' CASTELLINI, TOM TUCKER, BOB "SUAVE" WRIGHT, BOB BLOOM, GEORGE BOEHM, FRED MANN, JUD MORAN, JACK DILLON, PETE BUCHETT, JOHN DARAGO, J. D. iL«>IGAN, CHUCK WETIZEL, BOB PODEN, BOB B.ARNBAUCH, TONY MANDOLINI, JIM BUCKENMYER, WALT WAGNER, JOE JOYCE, DAN MUNSON, PHIL DOELL, BOB MIHLBAUGH, JOE BERTRAND, TIM O'HARA, ED MRAZ, PAT O'MALLEY, DICK ANTON, BILL MORLEY, 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
JOHN POIRIER, JOE McGINN, RICH HOH-AlAN, RAV SALVINO, JACK ROSSHIRT, JIM STUBLER, JOHN LIBERT, TOM MOORE. WALT DUSCHKA, HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, JOE NASH OP, DAVE FOY, JIM BERN­HART. ED MILOTA, GENE HOWLEY, JOHN REIDY, BOB PATTERSON, JOHN BIER­BUESE, MIKE CELESTE, TOM MURPHY, GEORGE HUBBARD, BILL MEYER, BOB ROSSITER, JOHN KELSCH, PAUL KRAUSE. DICK EHR, J. N. McHUGH, JOHN LYON. JOHN SCHLOEGEL, JACK PITTAS, JAKE NOONAN and good ole MILT BEAUDINE. BILL REYNOLDS, a regular attendcr v.-ns home re­covering from an illness that had him hospitalized for a while. 
BOB PODEN and I conquered DICK CAS­TELLINI and BOB WRIGHT on the I8th hole as they both choked on short putts on the Friday 
PAUL FULLMER 1922 LARKDALE DR. GLENVIEW, ILL. 60025 

1933 
BLT-LETIN! Would you believe that the world's Uvo great bachelors — JOHN WEITHERS and JERRY PRASSAS — tumbled to young love­lies since the last column. Jerry led off by marry­ing the former Abigail Halpln on Aug. 14 in the Church of San Francisco de Borja in Madrid! John followed suit with the former Mary Van Etten on Sept. 18 in Immaculate Conception Church in Chicago, but honc>'mooned in Spain, naturally. (One wag suggested that a devcr travel agent got to our young heroes and sold them a group pbn!) Jerry and bride arc living at 1433 
N. State Pku-ay in Chicago; John and frau at 1355 N. Sandburg Tcr., Chicago. 
PAUL HAUHNAR has written again asking that a classmate or a group that ^-ou might belong to sponsor the Hauhnars for a visit in the US to tell Americans about the plight of his people in the Mizo Hills of India. Paul sa>-s that they have enough money for the trip, but need official sanction. If you can help with this or send donations for his people contact him at Ave }tlaria Cottage, Madanryting, Happy Valley, Shillong-7, Assam, Indb. 
You guys and gals have made good use of the yellow cards. Keep them coming. BOB BROWN, 2535 Country Club Ave., Omaha, writes that he is a trust officer of the Omaha Natl. Bank. He received his LL6 from Crcighton in '58. Bob has two little girls 8 and 5. He'd like to hear from MARTY KINEHAN and "MO" REIDY. BOB HUNECK, 103 N. "F" St., Marion, Ind. reports that he has three clnldrcn. Bob's a sales rep for IBM. He saw LOU CENTLIVRE, 10 Gateway, Yonkers, N.Y. in New York recently and MAX ROESLER in Ft. Wayne. 
PAUL AflLLER, 720 King Ave.. City Island, Bronx NYC 10464 completed his training for the Botirds of Internal Medicine three years ago. '*! bugged out to Uppsala, Sweden to gain furthw training in biochemistry, but as you know, no icd-blooded American IiWng in Sweden would take time out to write to a Class secretary. 1 brought back a Swedish wife who has since given me a son and daughter plus two sailboats. I am now awaiting a draft call and will probably enlist." 
FRED MAROON, 12 E. Seagull St., Wrights-
EUGENE O'CONNOR 
COSGROVE & O'CONNOR 
656 ELLICOTT SQ. BLDG. 

1S36 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 14203 

Chins up, our football team is sure to improve and is certainly going to have a successful season regardless of the unfortunate losses to date. 
Cmdr. KENT J. CARROLL, aide and flag sec on the staff of a rear admiral, has been given the added duty of commander of sub div. 81, For^ mal ceremonies took place Aug. 7 on board the USS Croaker berthed in Groton, Conn. Rev. BRAD BAILIE was ordained June 7 in Anderson, Ind. and Rev. JOSEPH D. STOCK SJ was ordained June 10 in Seattle, Wash. FRANCIS 
H. BOOS JR has been appointed patent counsel for the major TV depc of GE's Consumer Elec­tronics Div. His duties include being acting patent counsel for Personal TV Dcpt., Ports­mouth, Va. 
DICK SCHILLER was «cc . dir. of the 1967 Miss Illinois pageant. Army Maj. DONALD F. IklAEDER completed a hospital administration course in June at the Medical Field Service Schools at Ft. Sam Houston, Tex. RICHARD S. 
before the game. TOM MOORE's attendance mariced his first trip back to ND ance graduation. BILL MORLEY was in high spirits bubbling over about his No. 1 son Bill, Jr. bom last Nov. 
18. and WALT WAGNER was feding blue about being sued by the city of Louisville and maybe the state of Kentucky. Everyone looked great. The bartenders got a real workout and we all resolved Ut be back in '68, Gfxl willing. How about you making the effort too, next year, first home game, be there. 
It seems like only yesterday I reported that some poor unfortunate girl was wed to GEORGE O'CONNELL and now they have three little O'Connells. Little Patrick O'Connel was bora on St. Patrick's Day. George has left Bell Labs and joined Raythcrm in Andone, M^s. He*s a product engineer building Hawk tnitjpli-^ Phyllis and JOE CLARK had thdr first son, Joseph 
wile Beach, N.C. writes: "I've been up here 
away from my home in Afiami for several months 
recovering from my second heart attack and wrote 
a book while recouping! It's all about fraud thru 
the mails. Name of book is Satisfaction Guara*­
teed or Your Money Back — Phooey! JOE 
NASSIF now is an architect in Raleigh and is 
doing real well. He has four Idds." Hope you're 
feeling better, Fred, and sell those books. 
TOM VIVIANO's wife Ruth checked in »^th the news that they have four children. They're living in Tampa, 6026 Wilshire Dr. where he is pres. of Vi^^no Stereo Center. BOB DEBREY's %rife Claudctte sent word that they had a little boy on Aug. 20 to make it three children. Bob has his own industrial design firm in Minneapolis. Their home address is 6928 Washburn S. HARVE MUELLER, 6040 Winding Way, Sylvania, Ohio, and his wife Audrey now have four. He's dis­trict sales mgr. for Strohs Brewery. PAT KEW­LEY, ^2 1 Sparks Ave., San Diego is another who reported in after 12 years. He spent 10 years in the Navy, joined American .^riincs, but now is a co-pilot for Pacific Southwest, **Aineri­ca's swingingcst airline." Pat's nuurried to the former Jody Coles and they have four childicn. of school age. 
JIM "SWEDE" ilETRESS now xs teaching anthropology at Clarion State Col. in Pennsyl­vania. He's finishing the research for his PhD from Indiana. While on the tmivernty front* MIKE WARD has been named mgr. of spedal projects for Loyola in Chicago. While on Campus for the introduction of SUMMA I ran into many '55 notables who will be heading local campsugns. TOM MAY, 4237 85th Ave. S.E.. Mercer Island, Wash, is a contract administrator for Boeing. Others who Were on tap in South Bend arc WALT KAVANAUGH of New Jersey, who is in the building field; BOB GERVAIS of Los Angeles, our space expert; BOB HUTCHINSON, stocks and bonds and RALPH GUGLIELMI, insurance, both of Washington; JIM BARRY, VIP from Milwaukee; JOHN I^IAHONEY, Hanover Bank, New York; TOM WELLY, personnel and place­ment, Toledo; JOHN ROGERS, la%vyer, Dallas; DAVE METZ, Kodak p.r., Rochester; BOB ZEIS, Denver Post^ Denver; and JOHN CASEY, banking, Rochester. 
FRANK CRIBBS reports that he picked up his 
RECKER has joined the Old Reliable Ins. Agencr in Elkhart. PAUL A. RENSTROM has been promoted to mgr. of Wells Fai^o Bank's new office in Del Monte, Calif. 
Dr. ALBIN A. SZEWCZYK attended a sem­inar on numerical methods for viscous flows at the National Physics Lab. in Teddington, England. ALBERT H. BIERMANN has been promoted to ^finneapolis region mgr. for American Hospital Supply. Maj. ROGER J. PRICE began a year of study this summer in the Army Comptroller-ship School at Syracuse U. Students who qualify will receive MBA degrees and will be assigned to comptrollership positions throughout the Aimy. BOB DUNEGAN, an asst. chief engr. for Walter Motor Truck Co., Vooriieesville, N.Y., was mai^ ried on Sept. 9 to Cynthia Krystofik. Gongiatn­lations. Bob. 
JOHN PHELAN is a high school gutdaoce counsellor in St. Louis, Mo. ED WHITE reports that he saw Father JIM O'BRIEN and BOB McKENTY on the Campus in June and that JOHN GUEGUEN is teaching soda] studies at San Francisco St. Col. in Calif. DICK FRAE­THER is a flight captain with American Airiincs Martin, In June after two girls. The Cbrks reside at 339 Humphrey St.. New Haven. Conn. Our sympathy is extended to Joe whose father passed away suddenly last March. Our sympathy is also extended to WALT WAGNER on the death of his mother and to JIM HEARONS on the death of bis mother. Your prayers. I'm sure, will be sincerely appreciated. 
Many people have thanked me for taking the time to work up these — excuse the word — articles. No thanks are necessary, just being a member of our Class and having a reason to make it back to the parties is thanks enough. This time I can't even complain about the lack of mail. It would be nice to hear from some of you guys who laven't written at all or been in touch these past 13 years. Meny Christmas and a Happy New Year to all. 
MBA trom California lifter four years in the Air 
Force. He notv is mgr. of financial planning for 
Hycon &ffg. Co. Frank married the former 
Marcia Young and they have four children (1 
won't mention that she is a MSU grad). They 
live at 2509 W. 179th St.. Torrance, Calif. TOM 
DORWIN has been named asst. ad mgr. for 
Evinrude Motors with headquarters in Milwaukee. 
Since NEAL HALLORAN got me a rate reduc­
tion, I have to mention that he has been made 
an account agt. for Allstate. MIKE KELLY and 
his Organization '55 group will meet Jan. 16 at 
I«ittner's Steak House in Chicago. DICK CLARK, 
940 Saylor, Elmhurst, III. is a CPA with Northern 
Illinois Gas Co. The Clarks have two adopted 
boys and hope to welcome another soon. 
Did you see RAY "THE SHARK" KENNEDY 
in his lucky polka dot shirt in Time? He wrote 
the cover story on Las Vegas gambling. DAVE 
DISCHER is teaching at the UCLA med school. 
DAN SHANNON, who now has six children, 
has been made VP of the Chicago Park Dist. by 
Mayor Daley. HARRY NIEMANN, 117 S. Wood­
land Ave., Middlesex. N.J. is a zone under^vriting 
specialist for Allstate. (Next thing you know 
State Farm will demand equal time.) LOU 
ZEFRAN tells me that JOHN PALMISANO wtis 
married this summer in Erie and that RICH 
McCORMICK was in the wedding party. Sr. 
KfARY FLORIAN GRIX now is teaching at 
Nazareth Col. (Mich.). 
DICK PERRY has been appointed an asst. VF of United Shoe Kfachinery Corp. and now is sta­tioned in the firm's international div. in Lausanne, Swtzerland. JOHN HAMILTON received his MBA at Harvard m June. JIM KORTE is employed as a sales rep. for the Purolator Products Inc. He and his wife of seven years Kathleen have three children and are expecting their fourth Christmas Day. They live at 2233 Estelle Dr. SE, E. Grand Rapids, Mich. 49506. TOM HICKEY has been promoted to systems engi­neering mgr. at the Aurora, 111. branch office of IBM. BOB NAVARRE has been named presi­dent of Simpson Manufacturing Co. in Litch­field, Mich. 
We're way over now. Gang, so I won't explain why you all didn't get tickets for the MSU game. News from the cocktail party in the next issue. Merry Christinas and a Happy New Year! 
and gave us a call while at the airport in Buffalo. He advised that SAM GLORISO is with NASA in Houston, JIM RYTHER is an attorney in Chicago and GEORGE DURKIN is an attorney in Cleveland. CONNIE TRIMBER is in resi­dency for his advanced medical training as an ophthahnologist. JIM SASSO finally reported and is in San Jose, Calif, at GE's atomic power dept. 
FRAN DWAN is studying orthopedic suigery at Hines V.A. Hospital in Chicago. His wife recently presented him with a giri, their fifth child. DAN GRIFFIN is in Mt. Clemens, Mich, as a special education teacher and active in youth work. JOE MARTELLARO is now at No. Illinois U.a s a full prof, of econ. BOB BURKE received his MBA from Babson Institute and is a member of a unique group called "Sodety for the Rreservadon and Encouragement of Barber­shop Quartet Singing in America," TONY BAL­SIUTGH and wife visited Bob and his family this summer in New England. DAVE Mc-NAMARA's wife reported that he is sales mgr. for a medical supply co. in Jackson, Miss, and that his twin, Dan is with the U. of Miss. Hasp, and School of Medicine. Dave, inddentally. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

holds forth on the tennis courts with a pretty fine game. From our Secret Agent in NYC: JIM CLARK has three children and practicing law in Newark, 
N.J.
 and living in Short Hills, N.J. AL PARIL-LOt writer and advertiung executive with Gaynor & Dukas in NYC, lives with wife Carol and three girls in Summit, N.J. TOM CAPLET was seen rushing in and out of Daily Netvs Building on E. 42nd St. in NYC. MIKE CARR is a top stock analyst on Wall St. JOE DiLALLO is an MD living in New Jersey as well as practicing there. 

S.
 EDMUND (SIL) RESCINITI, one of NYC's most eligible bachdors and Brooklyn's finest crim­inal Iau7er5, has chauffeur-driven Cadillac taking him to court from his plush 15 Park Ave. bachelor quarteis. Spotted in NYC men's shop was SAL PROFACI looking in superb shape. SPIKE DALY is all over the place dropping in on classmates in NYC. TOM McNEILL reports that he and his wife Ingrid had a nice visit with LEO LINBECK and his wife Connie when the Ltnbccks were traveling through Kenilworth, III. Tom is finishing his fifth year of law practice in Chicago. FRANK McCARTHY called Tom re­cently with news of his wife Pat and their three children and his new job in general counscFs office for a bus association in Washington, D.C. 


—GENE O'CONNOR, Secretary 
MORE '56 NEWS 

Maj. FRANK H. WHITTON USMC dropped a line to LaGrange Park with news of his recent return from Vietnam and current assignment at HQ, USMC G-4 Div. Frank, his wife Jo and four (Jiildren, Denise 9, Christy 8, and twins Michael and Kathleen 1 reside at 3116 N. Aurora Dr., Woodbridgc, Va. In this, Frank's first of many such epistles, he also reported on Maj. JOHN D. DAVE FRISKE USMC who completed a tour of duty at Alarine Corps Air Facility in Ytuna, Ariz, in July. Dave was assigned as a helicopter pilot with the 1st Afarine Aircraft Wing in Vietnam. 
Maj. MIKE MULROONEY USMC is prcscnUy serving with the fiscal div., HQ, USMC in Wash­ington, DC; this follows a tour of duty in Viet­nam. Mike has long remained a bachelor, but was scheduled to take the altar trip on Sept. 30; hope to hear from the participants in that wed­ding party! BILL LAFOND is the only ND classmate Frank has visited outside of the mili­tary. Bill and his wife Pat live close by Frank's in-laws in Chicago. Frank is looking forward to the 15th Reunion and regrets having missed the last two bashes. 
Would you believe that a press release addressed to "Beloveds, people, and various humanois," would end with the announcement^ "By the w-ay, passed my comprehensive exams at Northwestern and \vih soon be an MA in broadcast communi­cations or something like that" and be signed JIM O'BRIEN? Anyway Father Jim has been assigned to Notre Dame HS, RR 1, Gurler Rd., DcKalb, 111. 60115. Among other things, be's diocesan dir. of radio and TV, chaplain and instructor of religion at ND HS (girls), and chaplain at the Provincial Mothcrhouse of the School Sisters of Notre Dame. With sufficient advance notice, Jim inWtes all to join in a swim at the school (anyway, he s:ud all could *'comc soak their heads"). 
We're over our limit, but will need and enjoy your comments for the next ALUMNUS; why not write today? 
—JOHN MANION 
726 Forest Rd. 
LaGrange Park, HI. 

mi 
GEORGE W. GROBLE 
111 ^VEST WASHINGTON ST. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 

Many thanks to all members of the Class along with the interested wves who sent in the infor­mation cards. It certainly makes the job of writing a column much easier. Please keep the info coming in to the writer. 
DAVE HAND reports that he has returned to the private practice of medicine in Manchester, 
N.H. after completing his tour of naval duty as a flight surgeon. Dave is married to the former Carole O'Connell and between them have four youngsters. More doctors are reporting in and JIAl WALSH checked in to advise he is finish­ing up his residency in radiology at Bryn Afa^vr Hosp. and in January, 1968 will join the staff at the U. of Cobcado Med Center in Denver. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
r 
'ALUMNI IN THE NEWS I 
William T. Dwyer "49 has been ap­pointed personnel manager of the Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Florida Research and Development Center. He wrill direct all activities of the personnel depart­ment at the aero-space plant located 25 miles northwest of West Palm Beach. The plant currendy employs more than 4,500 persons. Dwyer has been acdve in personnel work since joining Piatt & Whitney Aircraft in 1962 as security coordinator. 
Joseph T. O'Neill '53 was selected 
Outstanding Young Man of the City of St. Paul and was one of 10 such honorees for the State of Minnesota. An attorney, he is also a member of the state legislature and founder of 
• the county legal assistance program. 
Daniel Shannon 53 has been named to a five-year term on the Chicago Park District Board and to the Board presidency by Major Richard Daley. A Chicago accountant, he also serves as secretary of the Illinois Racing Com­mission and is chairman of the Garfield Ridge Trust and Savings Bank. 
LeRoy F. Bazany '54 was appointed treasurer of the American Photocopy Equipment Co. of Evanston, III., one of the nation's largest manufacturers of copying equipment whose operations cover 70 foreign countries. Joining the company in 1958 as accounting man­ager, he was appointed controller in 1965. 
Richard E Gerbracht '54 has been 
named general manager of the Cleve­land office of the Marschalk Co. He is the youngest man ever to be named to the post with the advertising firm. Prior to his appointment he served as assistant manager and also holds the position of vice-president. 
Robert W. Navarre '55 was named president of the Simpson Manufactur­ing Co. of Litchfield, Mich., makers of precision parts for the automotive in­dustry. Formerly sales manager of the Marber Corp., he joined Simpson as assistant sales manager in 1964. He was elected to the board of directors in 1965 and the following year was named special assistant to the president. 
Charles L Grace '57 is one of four 
new marketing vice-presidents of Cum­mins Engine Co., Columbus, Ind. He will direct operations of Cummins' divisional offices and field sales and service representatives. Before his pro­motion, he was Midwestern division manager and had his office in Chicago. Cummins is the world's leading inde­pendent producer of diesel power. 
Gerard Gray '63 was recently named Outstanding Young Educator by the Bel Air, Md. Jaycees. The social studies department chairman at John Carroll HS, he was cited as one "who truly typifies the best traditions of teaching." 

V. 
Congrats 
W. T. DWYEK 'l» J. T. O'NEIU ' S 
DAN SHANNON '53 L F. BAZAINY '54 
R. E. GERBRACHT '54 «. V. NAVARRE '55 
C L GRACE '57 GERARD GRAY '43 
J 

Jim reports there are three little Walshs including 
Susanne bom June 20, 1967. 
TOM ECKMAN has returned to Chicago to 

enter the pri\-ate practice in obstetrics and gyne­
cology at Passavant Hosp. along with teaching at 
the NU Med School. Tom will be involved in 
cancer research along the way. Tom reports he 
and his wife Mary Alice are the proud parents 
of three. To avoid complete domination by the 
mcd men BRUCE FEDOR has been heard from 
expressing regrets in missing the Reunion and is 
looking forward to seeing some of the Class at 
the football games. Bruce is a partner in the 
law firm of Fedor & Fcdor in Cleveland, where 
he abo puts his finger in politics besides raising 
three children with the help of his %vife Evel>*n. 
TOM SCHRIBER contributed a nice letter filled 

with much news and thank you, Tom. Tom's 
only excuse for missing the Reunion is that he 
took a bride unto himself in June, tiie former Ann 
Snecd. Tom reports a 50-day hone>'moon in 
Europe and he is happily married. Those professor 
salaries at U. of Michigan must be alright. Tom 
is teaching computer-oriented math in a PhD 
program. Also on the faculty at Ann Arbor are 
BERT HORXBACK (English) and DON CAL­
AHAX (electrical eng). 
BRAD McKAIG is in Washington where he is practicing psychiatry- and BOB GRIFFIN and his wife Judy arc in E\"ansviHe, Ind. where Bob is leading the Indian Archery Corp. TOM DIETER 
ARTHim L. ROULE, JR. 
102 "I" ST. 
LAPORTE, IND. 46350 

1938 
We have more than the customary amount of news for this edition for which we are grateful. In order to remain within our space limit we will attempt to set forth our news with a minimum of comment. 
ROGER J. KILEY JR fonrards the follou-ing summary of his activities: Following graduation Roger served as pilot in the Marine Corps for four and a half years, after which he taught in the Chicago public school sj-stcm for a period of one year. He then entered Loyola U. Law^ School and graduated in '66. He is now with the firm of Mayer, Friedlich, Spiess, Tiemey, Brorni & Platt of Chicago. Roger also reports that TOM HAAS is in the construction business in San Francisco and was recently married. Also Capt. GARY COOPER USMC is now stationed at the Pentagon following Vietnam duty. PAUL BOUR­JAILY is an executive A*ith an advertising firm in Chicago, is married and has five children. Roger further reporU that JACK CRILLY is in the State Attomey*s office in Chicago. 
According to a clipping from the Kinston, 

N. C. Free Press, KIRK WAGENSELLER Jr was recently promoted to Asst. VP of the Wacho\ia Bank & Trust Co. Kirk attended the 
William V. Bault 
W
ILLIAM V. BAULT JR. '59 graduated 
only eight years ago, but he already 
has more than four million dependents. 
They all live in famine-racked Bi­
har, India and all of them are served 
daily meak at 23,325 CARE centers 
throughout the state. Bault is coor­
dinator of the CARE Famine Relief 
Program, the largest of its kind ever 
undertaken by a private agency. 
He took charge of the program last 
December when it included 600,000 
children under 14 and pregnant and 
nursing women. 
His job is to make sure the CARE 
food, 40 million pounds a month, is 
moved quickly and efficiently from the 
ports of India to the CARE centers in 
Bihar by rail, truck, bullock cart and 
headload. In some remote areas of 
Bihar, men walk as far as 25 miles 
over the hills to their villages with two 
25-pound bags tied to either end of a 

and wife Marita also in Evansiolle added No. I son this year. BOB LAZ's wnfe reports fliat ber husband is the financial dtr. for the Chicago Police Dept. and they have one son MichaeL Barbara Rose reports in that JIM ROSE is asst. prod. mgr. of Champion Sparfc Hi ^ in Toledo and as a result of four years erf marriage there are three little Ros^uds. Ladies, I thank you. 
DICK DUNLAY reported in and advises he xs with Hallmark Cards as an account manager and sales trainer in Columbia, S-C. Dick plans to make the ND-Gcorgia Tech game. He also advises that JOHN HARVEY is in Geneva, N.Y. and a partner in an architectural firm there. There are three little Harveys. JOE RIEGER is in Frank­fort, Ky. with Scars and has four children. Word from CHARLIE CONNOR is that be is with Sinclair Refining and has settled in Fort Lauder^ dale with wife and four Uttle ones. I wooder if Fort Lauderdale is the same as when we spent those Easter vacations down there? Please let us know, Charlie. 
PAUL JOHNSON is still going at it after his master's at U. of Penn; he returned to ND for his PhD and is presently on the English bculty. Don't be too critical of my grammar in this column, Paul, The Johnsons have two children. Maj. DICK POLLENZ has graduated from the Army Command and General Staff Col. and is now spending a year in Thailand. I hope Dick 
U. of Chicago Law School following graduation from ND. He is married, has one son and resides at 1211 Anne Dr., Kinston, N.C. MICHAEL 
W. HERB is now engaged in the general practice of law with offices at 19701 Sciibcr Lake Rd.. Lynnwood, Wash. 98036. 
JOE ELLAM, 4106 Hillsdale Rd., Hartisburg, Pa. I7U2 wrote with news of interest to our Class regarding the formation of a new Alumni Senate. According to Joe, no less than 10 mem­bers of our Class were on hand for the first meet­ing last May. They were PAT KITTREDGE, Philadelphia; DICK MURPHY, Boston; JOHN DUNN, Decatur, 111.; AL ECK, Springfield, lU.; CHARLES KITZ, Dearhom, Mich.; JOE PEI^ LEGRINO, New Haven, Conn.; TOM EISEN­HAUER, Dayton, Ohio; JOHN FITZPATRICK, Grand Rapids, Mich.; LOU BOSCO, Detroit; and JOE ELLAM. The foregoing represented their various area Alumni Clubs. Also joining the group for the Old-Timers' Game were Father DON McNEILL, JIM BRADY, JACK MURRAY and MIKE CANTWELL. Also in attendance were DAVE SHANAHAN and JOHN CROWE from the Foundation Office. 
Joe also reports that DICK LYNCH and MEL LARSON were coaches of the Pennsylvania - Big 33 all-star high school football team in its annual contest with a similar Texas all-star team in August. Mel Larson is now coaching at Pontiac, 
looks up JACK ROBINSON who is fiving in 
Bangkok with his wife and managing an oil 
company's interests there. HANK LUPKE be­
ndes practicing law is a famous oiganizer of 
fishing expeditions and for all of us who are 
interested I am sure we can convince Hank to 
set up some attractive canoeing and fishing trips 
in the %vilds of Missouri. 
The NESS organization has been exposed by confidential sources and we now know that VP BILL RIGALI has paid agents planted through­out the northeast to flood this column with neu-s of suspicious value from their area. Bill's agents are: MIKE SALTER in Augusta. Maine, a VP with an engineering and contractor firm; DON WASIK, attorney in Manchester, Conn.; BILL DAVIS, Allstate Ins. ace in Farmington, Conn.; JIM "FLASH" ROWLAND in Allcntown, Pa.; PETE "PISTOL" NOZNESKY out of Mohnton, Pa.; BILL GAVIN MD, in Boston; CPA JOE POLICASTRO in Pittsburgh; GENE YURGEA­LITIS with Xerox out of Rochester, N.Y. Be­ware of these Northeast Scoop Scouts and any promises of monetary reward by them in order to obtain information from you should be scruti­nized. These men do not hxvc an unlimited ex­pense account from thu column as they may claim. I urge the VP's in the other areas to organize to defeat this dangerous group. Help! 
Our sympathy and prayers go to JOHN D.^RCY on the recent passing of his father. 
Mich. KEN CAR\nGNANI is vilbge engineer at Lombard, lU. and JOE SCOTKOVSKY is in charge of a construction project at O'Hare Field in CMcago. Father BOB DEVINE is teaching at Salesianum HS in Wilmington, Del. JIM DUNNIGAN is in charge of affairs at Buffalo Raceway and JIM "SPECKS" ROGERS is prac­ticing dentistry in West Hartford, Conn. BOB MCCARTH Y is teaching and coaching in Brigh­ton, Mass. JOE and BERNIE PELLEGRINO are practicing laW in New Haven. HANK De-CALUWE and JIM ENGLEHARDT are living in the Dearborn, Mich. area. Our thanks to Joe Ellam for the foregoing. 
Dr. DAN KAVANAUGH, Rt. 1, Box 474, Galeburg, Mich. 49053 graduated from the U. of Detroit Dental School in '63, served four years with the Navy on the West Coast, in the Far East and at Great Lakes. He was married in Nov. '65, now has one daughter and has been in private practice since September of this year. JOHN R. MARTZELL was recently appointed q>eoal counsel to the governor of Louisiana. He win advise the governor on civil rights matters. DAVID H. KELSEY was recently made a panncr in the Albuquerque law firm now named Hernandez, Atkinson and Kelsey. Dave's partner, 
B. C. Hernandez, is the US ambassador to 
Ruaguay. PAUL W. PIKELL is now Uving at 1532 Wedge­
 «#r. '39 CARE-ING FOR A FAMISHED FOUR MILLION 
bamboo pole balanced on their shoul­ders. 
It is also Bault's responsibility to make sure the food is cooked properly and correct rations are distributed. The average daily ration is four ounces of wheat and either one ounce of milk or two ounces of blended com meal, soybean flour and milk powder. 
Bault, a native of Philadelphia, joined CARE as an overseas represen­tative in 1964 after four years in the Air Force. His first assignment for the nonprofit aid agency was in Ceylon until February, 1966 when he was sent to India. Before he took charge of the famine relief program in Bihar, Bault was administrator of regular school feeding and self-help programs in the state of Gujarat. 
Bault lives in comfortable quarters above the CARE office in Patna, the capital city of Bihar, but he makes fre­quent Jeep tripis through clouds of dust over hot, dry and rutted dirt roads to the villages where the meals are served. 

Assisting him are five American CARE administrators and 17 Indian field officers, who spend most of their time traveling through the state to check inventories and inspect the feed­ing centers. 
During June, in anticipation of the monsoon, 70 million pounds of food were moved quickly to the CARE cen­ters from the ports of Calcutta, Bom­bay and Madras. About one fifth of the 23,325 centers, which would be inaccessible after the rains began, were given a three-month supply of food. 
Even though monsoon rains have begun this year (they have failed the past two years), the acute shortage of food in Bihar will continue at least until the crop is harvested in the fall. 
Although most of his time is spent 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 

wood Dr., Fairbom, Ohio 45324 after resigning 
from the Air Force where he was a captain. He 
is now employed by the USAF in a civilian 
capacity as a flight test engineer at Wright-Pat­
terson AFB. BOX CAMERON is sales rep. and 
asst. branch mgr. for the South Bend area for 
Continental Business Interion Inc. of EUchart. 
Mother FLORENTINE OLVM celebrated the 25th 
anniversary of her profession of vows this year 
and said the most outstanding event in the years 
she has been in the religious life was '*Pope John 
and Vatican H." Dr. (Capt.) PATRICK M. 
FLANAGAN and Dr. (Capt.) THOMAS A. GAR­
SIDE have completed the orientation course for 
officers of the USAF medical service at Shep­
pard AFB, T«. 
Capt. JOHN M. LEDDEN has been graduated 
from the Air U.'s Squadron Oflicer School at Max­
well AFB, Ala. THOMAS FRANCIS BURZYN­
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 
2680 LEHMAN RD.. APT. 42 
CINCINNATI, OHIO 45204 

1939 
The class officers take this opportunity to wish each of you and your families the choicest blessings of this Christmas season. While sending notes to friends this holiday, why not jot a few lines to this scribe so that he will have material to carry him into the new year? (My suggestion for an excellent Christmas present for yourself is the trip back to the campus for our Class reunion in June, 1%9.) 
The reunion after the S. Cal game was a tremendous success and we especially thank JOHN THURIN and his sec*y, Jean Forray, for handling the arrangements. John and I got together and tried to remember who was there and came up with the following names: PAUL ANDERSON, BOB ARCHEY, JOE BATTLE, JACK BEARD, BO BROEMMEL, TOM CAHILL, TO.M CAR­ROLL, KNUTE C.WANAUGH, JIM COLOSI­MO, FR. JIM CO.N'XELLY CSC, BOB DAILEY, NICK DEMPSEY, ART Dl SABATI.VO, JOHN DOWNES, BARRETT GLEIXXER, BILL GR.AHAM, STEVE H.ARVATH, BOB HAS­SEXGER, JOHN HAYVVARD, PAUL HESSION, JIM HILLIARD, PHIL HODOXOS, TOM JOSEPH, TERRY LAMB, JOHN MADDEN, JOHN MALOXEY, TIPPY MAXN, TOM McBREEN, BILL XfcCULLOUGH, BILL Mc-CUSKER, GEORGE McTERNAN, JACK Mc-GRATH, JOE MULLIGAN, DENNY NEAD, KEN NOTH, DICK PHELAN, CHUCK QUEENAN, JIM REUL.\ND, BUDDY REYN­OLDS, GEORGE ROSS, ART SHANNON, JULIUS SPARACHINO, FRED STEPANICH, JOH.N THURIN AND JORGE ZABLAH­TOUCHE. My apologies for the omission of the 30 or 40 names of other classmates who attended. We made a few notes for next year*s reunion (after the Sept. 28th Purdue game, so mark your 1968 calendar) and we promise to have a more 
REUNION '68 

SKI was married to Miss Barbara Frances Chiapck in South Bend Aug. 12. ROBERT W. MISSEL has been appointed sales tnuning mgr. of Ford Motor Credit Co. TIMOTHY J. MURTAUGH 111 has been admitted to partnership in the law firm of Murtaugh, Nelson & Sweet in Chicago. ANTHONY SPERANZA has received a bachelor of laws degree from Seton Hall U. School of Law. 
accurate list next time. 
TOM CAHILL is now VP and director of 
marketing of newly formed Leslie Foods, Inc., a 
div. of Leslie Salt Co. in San Francisco. TERRY 
KEATING has been named personnel director for 
The Container Corp. of America, with offices in 
Chicago. BRIAN QUINN earned his MBA at 
Miami U. in Oxford, Ohio. Rev. JOHN E. 
BUCHALO CSC was retreat master for this year's 
49th annual BIG RETREAT at NO. One thousand 
men from half the states in North America at­
tended. 
LOU MANZO was named the fint recipient of the Harry A. Batten Fellowship awanled at the Harvard Graduate School of Btuiness Adnun. He enrolled in the two-year program in Sept. BILL WHALEY has been named plant mgr of Western Publishing's Cambridge, Md. plant. TIM SHARON has been assigned overseas duty with the Catholic Relief Services program in Ecuador. SCOTT BRADSHAW, a reg. Army officer since gradua­tion, shipped to Vietnam in late August. He had been an ROTC instructor at Kansas Slate CoL in Pittsburg, Kansas. Upon completion of his assignment at Pitts, he was tzansfaTed from the Infantry to the Signal Corps. Scott has fcmr hoys (7-5-3-1) and has full intention of going the full distance with the Army. 
JIM MERZ, my roommate freshman year in B-P, earned his PhD at Harvard in June. JOE McARDLE is the recipient of a master of fine arts degree in drama. JOE O'CONNOR joined the faculty of Wittenberg U. in Springfield, Oluo, where he Is an ass't prof, of history. Joe has been an interviewer for the John F. Kennedy Library since 1965 and is writing his doctoral dissertation on "Russian-American Relations, 1939-1941." Lt. Cmdr. TOM BARTHOLOMEW has just com­pleted an eight-month totir with the 7th Fleet in Vietnam u*atcrs. Tom is an a\'iation officer at­tached to Cmdr. Fhilbar, Ninth Staff, home based in San Diego. 
in the CARE office in Patna, the capi­tal of Bihar, Bault has traveled throughout the famine-racked state. 
"I like to get out to see the people in the villages," he says. "It gets me closer to them and their problems. 
"When I see the swelled stomachs, spindly legs and painful sores of mal­nourished babies, it's impossible not to respond emotionally. But 1 have a job to do. I can't let it bother me all the time." 
Bill said he has seen noticeable improvement in the health of children after only a month of daily CARE meals. They are more lively; they can laugh and play. 
In his Patna office Bill juggled num­bers and schedules about 12 hours a day. This kind of administrative job can become quite abstract. But for Bill it has not. His visits to the vil­lages have given him a deep apprecia­tion of the thin margin that separates life and death. 
JOHN G. HEDUCK w of Abon U.'s Institute :far C5rie KJtrti—. B t «nll coatune detdopment of ICE pra|na* 4c­s%ned to encourage WHiiimiMe aiUt PHtkipuim in on e aBaurs. ItONALD. W. ROR K Rccncd his MBA in miiigifn t at Faiileigk OiciiaMai 
U. in Joae. Dr. (Capt.) DENNIS J. GAIt WACKI has coapleted the orientatioa coatMtar USAF meifical officers at Sheppnd AFl. Tcs.. The doctor who iccentljr went oa aclne dirty was asBgaed to the USAF Impitsl at OSiitt AVB. Neb., for dutr as a aemok^st. Dr. HEMKV FRASK is ia research ia soEd plvna at .the Amy Materials and Mwhsnin Scseucli Cater in Watertowa^ Mam* 
The balance of news still ia >ar baads.iltia have to be held over until the neat issae at « e have now consumed our allotted for the contiibntions. 
i m FARREIX has been aaaaed poitibGs a ^ ministratar of Teachers Insmaace and Aaaaiir Assoc, and the College Kedieiaeat Eqinties Fund, nonprofit ocganizataous that provide m natioanade system of portable pennoas for college) and etbcr educational and sdentific institutions. 
Hr. and Mrs. TOM MIRANDA bccasK panats of a daughter Sept. 24 in South BeaJ. BOB KBX has been promoted to the newly created positka of North Central regional siaiieting mgt. for Oe grocery div. of Beatrice Foods Co. BOB HAS­SENGER appeared on CBS' 'Oook Up and lite " TV show on Sept. 24 to iSscoss the iistnrc of Church-qionsared college and He it also one of the 100 "experts" who attended the conf. in Washlitgton to cBscuss the futme of Catholic education, Nov. 5-10. As you ai ^ know. Bob has a recent book tm tlus siiiject. 
GEORGE CLEMENTS Eves again! After giad­uation, George went into the Amy and served at Ft. Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis. WhSe there he started wt>ritii« nqhts for Tkt iMiUammptSt Star as a reporter aitd also met and married a South Bend giri, Joyce Ripp, who was wusldag as a nurse in a Nap-town hasp. They now Inve four boys, from the age of five on down. Gcosse spent five years with the Star and moved to Bias­hamton, N.Y. where he worked with the aftctaooa paper, part of the huge Gannett chun. He switched to the independently owned <^ipoBitioa~ paper and b now the exec e^tor of a 30,000* drculatkm morning tabhnd. DAVE AMIDON, Lt., USN, lec'd his MS in AE on July 6 bcm Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CaEf. and then left for another tour in patrol bomlieis with VP-23 at Brunswick, Maine. Dr. JOHN O'BKIEN, after leaving ND, rec'd hs BID fnan Stanford, fiiushed his intern and first yr. readency at Saa Fraixjsco General Hosp. and left Aug., 1966 (with wife Peggy and children, Attida uid Kobert) for Kaduna, N^eria, Africa. The O'Briens arc assodated with the PbbGc Health .Dept. on loan to the Peace Corps and will be there imtil Jtrae­'68. After July 1 of next year, J<An w01 be a rcsdcnt at the Uinv. ot Od. HeiEcal Center ia S.F. 
PAT GELSON i> cretSt mgr. for Evan-Ficoae, Inc. (a major ladies^ sportswear manufacturer) . and married Aileen Lipschutz cm June 20, 1964. They have a son, Eddie (2) and daughter Dcfciiie (1). Fat's brother DICK '60 is on Ae bcnhy at the U. of Dayton, and his brother AL '64 n with Allied Chemicals Plastic Div. ED McGEE's nmnber t%vo son, Kevin EdwartI, was bom Sept.-?. Ed was recently reass^ed to the Chicago office of Stan­dard OH where he is supervising a group of computer pcogranuaeis. Ed reports that MIKE TRESSEL and badly are nwving to NYC lor two yean while Mike is on special awigmneat for Sinclur, and that TONY MACIOCE is soc-­cessfuUy leuiveiing in Detroit iram a very seriow case of bleeding lilceis. 
After TERRY DALY returned from Vietnam, where he worked as a dnBan advisor, he en­rolled in the Duke U. graduate school vdiefe he can now be found woildng toward a degree ia history. BILL BOHNSACK was DnntocQ s pvicst May 23. 1964 after a year at Benet Latin School and four yean of theoksy at Mt. St. Ifasy** Seminary, Emmitsburg, MtL Father Bin has beea assigned to St. Anthony Puish in Trenton, N.J.,: where he is teaclung higli school xtE^taa, as SRO as part-time parish work. 
The sympathy of the Oa s is extended to TOM BRUOER and his farotfaen JIM "65 aad MIKE ex-'62 on the death of their lather, Thoaaat A. Btuder, Sr. Rev. Ferdinand Brown CSC offered a Mast on Campos on No*. 4lh bsr Mr. 1 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1?<7 DECEMBER 
ISil 
THOMAS J. O'CONNELL 3350 EVERETT RD. 
LAKE FOREST. ILL. 60015 
Dashing thru the snow, etc. which according to 
Chi*s ESP doU, I'm supposed to be doing vfhtn 
you receive this. Football scene. How about No. 
10? Loola like a long season. AISU, Ga. Tech. 
and Fla. <»uld be difficult. Of course it's all over 
as you read this and you know the results. But 
the big one was still AfSU and %v-asn*t it great 
to beat them. But what the heck it's not 
whether you win or lose but how much you 
enjoyed tiie day. That's the opinion of a few 
seen at Gate 14, like TOM MOYNAHAN, RICK 
SALMON, D. JERRY McGLYNN, TOM MAR­
TIN and JOE DAY. All agree half the fun is 
leaving the driving to that friendly bus driver! 
It's the walking when we finally return home 
that's rough. 
The First Noel . . . One of the interesting 
things about doing this column is the consistency 
of some people. Over the last year we've had 
tAvo, three and four reports from some individuals-
In one case wc had such a running dialog pre­
ceding the first child that I could've been god­
&ther. In contrast, there arc a few people whom 
I just know will never ivTitc and whoops, out of 
the woodwork come "brothers" like: Ohayo, 
PAUL RAFFERTY teaching Army Jr. High in 
Schweinfurt, Germany after numerous years do­
ing same for J ^ Force High in honoraHc Tokyo. 
What a life- Ah Yes, reminds mc of the old 
days back in '63. (Old?) In his own inimitable 
style, ".. . been on the Rhine to Cologne, 
Wurzburg, Munich-Oktobcrfest beer is fantastic — 
and Nuremberg. I've found a fantastic apartment 
and as soon as I can move off post I'm sure I'll 
enjoy Germany." (Sec Note, Ach So!) DON 
DIMBERIO the old five and dlmcr retailing at the 
Kre^e National Warehouse in Fort Wayne. MBA, 
OSU '61; I do '63; Dad to Amy and Anne. 
He also found time to teach at Indiana, Purdue 
and St. Frauds and sends regards to the Giucago 
Gang. 
Marilyn and PETE HICKEY wth Lynn and 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 
30556 SCRIVO DR. 
WARREN, AHCH . 48092 
ISfil 
I just got back from seeing USC beat the Fight­ing Irish. I hope the rest of the season will be better than that game. BILL CRONIN and Mai:^e spent the weekend with us and drove down to South Bend to see the gome together. "ITie Cronins now have a baby girl Kathleen and Bill is working back in N.Y. with Underwood Olivittie. My wife and I saw Maggie and ^HKE CRONIN over at the Cronin car bar in the parking lot and Mike tells me they bought a home on the south side of Chicago and we were talldng over some of the pleasantries of owning a home. PAUL La FRAMBOISE wrote and told me he wus married in September to Nicole Durand of Quebec They will make their home in Montreal where Paul is working for Inter­national Sun.'e>-s Ltd., a marketing consulting firm. RAY CURTIN was married in France to Marie France Brochard. Ray Is working for GE as a consulting coordinating engineer for the last year and a half. 
TONY CHESSICK is doing nuclear consulting worlc in Washington and has his master's in phy^cs from Catholic U. Tony is married to the former P. Darcy Urban. DAVE KILROY is tile federal govt, account rep. for Xerox in the Carolinas. He sa^'S he is doing well, still single and looking. His brother Jay is at the Cape in Florida doing real estate worlc for Humble Oil but they don't sec each other, very often. Dave mentioned that FRED JENKINS is sta­tioned as a lieutenant there in Charleston. PAT BURKE and his wfe Denise are living in Lan­caster, Mass. where Pat is teaching and work­
H. JAMES KRAUSER 1760 EAST \VEST HIGHAVAY 
SILVER SPRING. MD. 20910 
1IS2 
Yonis truly was fortunate to attend the recent national SUMMA conference held at ND Sept. 10-11. One had to be impressed by the organiza­tional stnictuie of your Alumni' organization and the Jon^eness of purpose which u'as the keynote of -two extremely informative days. I know it may.jKmnd trite but I would Hke to urge all members of this Class to pledge funds according to your individual means for this very worthwhile campaign. 
48 
Lisa have popped op in Waldwidt, N.J, where 
they aire united with Union Carinde. Pete's 
Poop: "Nancy and JACK SCHROEDER with aid 
from Detroit's J. P. Stevens & Co. art building a 
kindergarten, two each and one due. JOE 
REANEY is managing in Manhassctt, slaving for 
a NYC account firm." 
Chestnuts roasting on an open fire .. . on the 
beach probably, at least at CHUCK NACKLEVs 
in Miami. After U. of Miami La«r *63 he mar­
ried Barbara Da.vis (Raleigh, N.C.) in '66 and 
is just lulling himself in that sunshine. He says 
JOHN PARKS is in Chicago and VA like John 
to come out of hiding. BILL COMEFORD is 
not though. He pops up finally with, "USMC 
after graduating, then a year is traunee with 
Texaco, Inc. and am currently electronic and 
computer buyer for the Aigonne Natl Lab. Mar­
ried former Judie Mauer '64 and have Cfcmdia 3." 
I'll be home for Xmas, you can count on me .. . 
at least, if any one of the old doctors at Mayo 
lends a band. Dr. PAT SHEEDY in raiUology 
and Dr. TOM STARKEY in OB. Thanb to 
Dr. BILL SCHECKLER for that note and also 
on Dr. GREG WALSH in neurology at NIH in 
DC. Bill is "chief resident, intenial medicine 
U. of Wisconsin Hosp. Will take care of Uncle Sam in July '68 in the US PubUc Health Service. Wife Rollie (SMC '62) enjoys opera nnging and Ed 3 and Megan Mkrie 1 enjoy being- them­selves." 
More Meds . . . DICK BILODEAU, intern and resident at Albany Med Center June '66. Now with Biary and Laura 4 in Cambridge, Md. with allergy practice and consulting work at East-cm Shore State Hosp. DDS DAN SCANLAN and other ND pre-dents recently received thOT di­plomas. Congrats. Jeannie and he claim that their two linebackers, Dan and Tun, were recently seen being offued candy by one Duffy D . 
I'm dreaming of a white Xmas %nth every Xmas card I get . , . and the first one is from DDS TOM ADAMSON who has gone to Carmichaci, Calif, after two years* Air Force in Sacramento, along with Vickie and Ryan Lee 1. 
ing. They have two children. Fat and Erin. DON RICE has been serving as an Anny captain by teaching economics and systems analyns at the Naval postgraduate school in Monterey, Calif., but Don and his wife Sue (SMC '61) and the two sons are now Ii\^ng in Arlington, Va. where Don is dir., cost research and analy^ in the office of the asst. secretary of defense tot sjTstems analysis. 
BILL BENDEN is still single and is now in the Air Force as a s^iologist. Bill had the experience last year of being a race doctor at the Sebring 12-bour race. That must have been something. JOHN &IULROONEY graduated from Minnesota's School of Medicine in '65 and js now a captain in the Army in Boston. STEVE SALLER is a junior financial analyst for MalUn­fr^t Chem. Co, in St. Louis, Mo. Steve is married and has two children, a daughter 5 and a son 3. JOHN PALEN fiiushed lus PhD in sociology at U. of Wisconsin and then began as an asst. prof, at the U. of Milwaukee. Army Reserve active duty orders are sending the Palens to Washington, DC next year where John will be on the faculty of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces. John and Karen and the two looking forward to taking over the Capital. 
MIKE McMAHON %vas married in Oct. '66 to a Pittsburgh girl. He is presentiy working on his PhD at the U. of Httshurgh full-time after teaching in a high school for a while. JEROME VANDERWALLE wrote and told me he is an engineer-scientist specialist with Douglas Aircraft Co. at the Space Systems Center in Huntington Beach, Calif. Jerome and bis wife Gretchen and their three sons. Bob 4, Jim 3, Steven 2 live in Costa Mesa, Calif. On a trip to tiie East they met Peg and DEN KASUN and Judy and BOB 
Two members of our Class were very much in evidence serving as integral parts of the ND Foundation. JOHN CROWE and JOHN HUT­TON both are to be commended for the out­standing job they are doing coordinating Alumni activities throughout the country. John Hntton has recentiy moved to the West Coast where be has opened up N D offices in both Los Angeles and San Francisco. The only other member of our Class attending the session was JIM GREVER who is cruzrentiy H-orking for IBM crat of Gin­cinnati» Hark the angds aang . . . and MIKE McKEE 

drops out of the sky. Mike, how can I forget 
the tenor of ROTC? Mike's thesis vvould take 
three issues to cover, so here, mth apologies to 
Mike, are some excerpts: '' '60-'62 ^rfoome 
Ranger, leader and patient. Broke my back sum­
mer of '62 after diopper lurched during ex­
ercises involving lowering troops from hovering 
helicopters. But, back again jumiring in the fall. 
Met Jeanne, a WAC Lt. in '62 and married in 
'63. However, she was then at Ft. Knox and I 
at Ft. Campbell. (Sec. Note: That's the mili­
tary!) Another accident and quite some hos­
pital time and in '63 a medical retirement. Fin­
ished MA at Columbia sodology dept. and was 
pursuing PhD but now have three-year Nat'l 
Defense Ed. Act Fellowship and am back at ND. 
Soc dept. is really an up and coining group now 
and seems to reflect the overall resurgence jn N D 
academics. We're looking forward to becoming 
young 5iU}urfoanites and viewing better football 
than before '60. TeU JULIAN! that Prof. 
D'Antonio wants to see him about an old term 
paper." 
It's Xmas in Killamcy wt h all of the folks at 
home , . . including JOHN LYNN whose missus 
Nancy writes that they and Mary Elizabeth 3 and 
John Jr 2 are at home in Center Valley, Pa. 
where he is a research eng. for a mining dept. 
of the Homer Research Labs at Bethlehem Steel. 
Joy to the world . . . well, at least to STEVE B.ARRY (Sean), GERRY LALLY (Terry) and JOE COOPER (Meredith Jean) with their new additions. Cheers. 
On the 1st day of Xmas my true love gave to me . . . for DAN KtETTER, LARRY KYTE, TOM BRINKWORTH and EMMET MCCARTHY and their new wives we ^ve best wishes for many Cbristmases to come. And so dear friends as the snow drifts rise and the salt trucks sally forth we bid a fond farewell until next time from the heart of Chicago's second worst blizzard. Happy roasting and toasting. Joyeux Noel, FeUz Navidad. 
—Old Lang's Sign 

MEULEMAN. Den is national account rep with Koppers and lives in King of Prussia, Pa. Bob is a stock analyst for the Bank of Detroit and received bis MBA on a fellowship at MSU. Gerry and LARRY RICHARDS stopped by the Vandcrwalles* after a visit to Disneyland. Larry and Gerry have two children, Chris and Mark. Larry is also with Douglas Aircraft. Jerry McKay recdved his MBA from Indiana U. in '63. Jerry is with the Ford Motor Car Co. as a supervisor in the controller's office. Jerry married Alice Gressel in Dowagiac, Mich, in Aug. 1964 and has two children, Patricia and Ann A£arie. They are now living in Owosso, Mich. 
Bro. PASCHAL PESCE CSC wrote and told me he is on the faculty at Cardinal Mooney in N.Y. Brother is teaching' English and religion. Last summer he received his MA in guidance and psy­chology from Vaianova. CHARLES "NICK" KOENIG rccuved an MD degree from St. Louis 
U. Med. School in 1965. After interning at St. Luke's Hosp. in Sa^oaw, Mich, he entered mili­tary service and is presently in Vietnam. Ed Greene married Asia Marie Garibay De Quintero of Guadalajara, Mexico last summer. Ed is cur­rently employed as export mgr. with the Heath Co., St. Joe, Mich. Ed mentioned that while on assignment in the Caribbean he spent a lot of time with classmates MIGUEL FERNANDEZ and ROBERTO RAMIREZ. Ed would like to hear from TOM "GUMS" GIEL and Dr. JIM Mc-GOWAN. 
That's it for now, gang, but I would like to esqilain that this article is limited to ^ e and some of the info might be a tittie old when it goes to press but I won't forget any news that I have received from you. "Keep those cards and letters coming int" 
As pronused last issue I will attempt to high­light a particular group or organizations active dnring our days on Campus. Through the cour­tesy of STEVE WEIDNER and BILL SCANLON comes news of most of the Blue Qrde members of the Class of '62. Steve is a Ia%vyer working in the Pentagon while serving in the Navy. Bill, abo an attorney, works for the General War Glahns office in DC. CHRIS BUCKLEY is now practicing law also in DC with the firm of Covington and Burling after his graduation from Harvard. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
TOM EIFF and wife TaBy live in Boston 

while "Eiffer** attends his second year of Harvard 
Business School. JOE DELLA MARIA is now in 
the Navy JAG and stationed at Newport after 
spending the past two years clerlcing for Judge 
Kiley in Chicago. JIM FLYNN with law degree 
from ND is in Evansville, Ind. where he and 
wife Kathy are rai»ng sons Jim and Ned. BILL 
WEINSHEIMER with wife Roberta and son BiU 
Jr. are now in Chicago where "Willie" is with 
a leading law firm. BOB HENRY is working 
at the Argonne National Lab. outude of Chicago. 
Bob recently was awarded his PhD in physics. He 
and wife Paula have two sons. CARL HOUCK 
is now worlung on his master's degree in water 
resources development at the U. of Colorado. 
Carl and wife Joan have a boy and a girl. 
Sarah and AL OAMILTOti live in Cleveland 

where Al is teaching history at John Carroll U. 
JIM McGRANNERY is a dvilian attorney work­
ing in the Pentagon for the Air Force general 
counsel. MIKE SANDERSON living in upstate 
New York with mfe Linda and two daughters, 
is a sales rep. for the Information Records Div. 
of IBM. JACK KILLILEA with a KIEd. from 
Boston Col. is a guidance counselor in a Boston 
high school. Jack is married to the former Mar­
garet Halpin. RICH CATENACCI is working as 
a lawyer in the US atlome/s office in Newark. 
KHKE RITSCHEL and wife Marcia live in Peoria, 
lU. where Mike is VP of Ritschel's Blacktopping, 
Inc. and working on a master's in economics. 
MIKE RARTNETT Uving the good life in San 

Francisco is one of the flower children we read 
so much about. In his spare time Mike works in a 
sales capacity with the Western International 
Hotels and is based at the St. Francis Hotel. 
TOM SMITH is now in residence at Mt. Sin^ 
Hospital in Baltimore, and is a frequent DC 
vL<itor. Would like to hear from KIM McGEE, 
WILLIE REGAN, BILL CASHORE and JAIME 
FUSTER to complete this Blue Circle information, 
NEWS FRO.M THE YELLOW CARDS: 
Congratulations to Dottie and MIKE HART on the birth of their fourth child, a boy. Mike is now zone mgr. for Ford Uving in Indianapolis. FRED NEMEC also has four children and his wife is expecting their fifth in December. Fred received his CPA in May and has moved from Houston to Corpus Chrisri. ANDY CHAPLIN is now asst. editor of the U. of Chicago magazine. Hope you can spare a few minutes, Andy, and read tiiis publication. DICK SAUER is now work­ing for NASA in Houston after specializing in sanitary engr. at the U, of California. TED MIODENDORF is working for Haskins and Sells 
m\ FRANK P. DICELLO 218 PALMER HILL RD. OLD GREENWICH. CONN. 06870 
Jeannie, Anne and EUGENE BLISH have ar­rived ia Bangitok, Thailand to begin their new duty assignment with the Air Force. They can be reached at the Maison Royale, 10 Fhaholyothin, Soi No. 3, Bangkok, ThaUand. KEVIN O'NEILL and his wife Mary Elizabeth are the parents of a boy, Kevin Michael, bom June 10. They are residing in Chicago where Kevin is regional xngr. of computer sales for Leasco Data Processing Corp. RICHARD SOBONYA married Evangeline Eybsen of Cleveland on May 27. Best man at the wedding was RICHARD FEPLINSKI. The Sobonyas are now in Cleveland where Dick is completing his internship in pathology at Uni­versity Hosp. Capt. AL DESKO is currently serv­ing as a f^v. G>3 operations officer in Vietnam. Al and his wife Marie have a son aged 2. 
JIM AIcNAMEE and wife Mary Jane now have thrae children and are living in North Olm­sted, Otuo where Jim is a sales rep. for IBM. CHUCK PAYNE recently completed a two-year tour of duty with the Air Force in Japan and has been reassigned to Travis AFB in Galifontia. BOB MARTIN is presently a staff accountant wnth Abbott Labs in North Chicago, HI. He and Yvife Carrie recently welcomed their tlutd child. Colleen Patricia. DAVE GRAHAM received his VSSi from Baylor U. in '66 and spent the past year as an Intern at Ben Taub General Hosp. ia Houston. On March 31 he married Janet Susaa Butel and is currently serving in the Army. 
BOB BUCKLEY has completed his Navy obli­gation and is currently in Chicago where he is attending the U. of Chicago and worlung toward an MBA. ARNOLD TESTA is serving as a lieutenant in the Air Force and is stationed at Phu Cat AFB in Vietnam. JOHN DABROWSKI 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER \n7 DECEMBER 
in La. PAT HUGHES has begun m pei^rie 
residency at Chelsea Naval Has]!., Bostoa ud 
expects to be there for two or three inoee yean, 
JIM HIGGINS is sharing a San Franciiro apsst* 
ment with FRANK O'CONNELL. Jim ii ni the 
Navy trying court-martials and headied for Vitt­
nam this spring. Frank is with IRS aiHl atteanfias 
law school at USF. 
BARRY LEONE received Us ItfBA bom North­

western in June and is now in WoodUnd HiOi, 
Calif, woriung on the corporate staff for the 
Rcxall Drug and Chemical Co. Bany and wife 
Mary Ann have two children. BILL THOMPSON' 
is married and living in Lexington, Ky. employed 
with Sean Roebuck as group comptralier. Jil l 
GMELIN now in SanU Ana, Calif, is woiUns 
as a customers man for Merrill, Lynch. Coii­
grats to BOB CIHAK MD and wife Kanne on 
the birth of their second child. Bob is pmently 
interning at Harbor General, Torrance, Calif. 
JOE WHITE received his MBA from Wharton and 
is now a security analyst for Blass. Mutual Life 
Ins. in Springfield, Mass. MIKE RICE is the 
chief radio engr. for station WIU Willimantir, 
Conn. JOE DEEB recently was appointed asst. 
US attorney in Detroit. Dr. PETER MORRIS 
is a resident in surgery at Memorial Hosp., Chanel 
Hill, N.C. 
ODDS AND ENDS: BRIAN O'NEILL now in DC with a local labor law firm. DON CRIQUI is the new play­by-play announcer for CBS and the New Orleans Saints. Previously Don worked out of New York and did the Knickerbockers games. Doing a great job, Don. Dr. PETE DEMPSEY doing research at the National Institute of Health Bethesda, Md. JIM MERCURIO just back from Vietnam is now stationed at the Pentagon. BOB HUTCHINS has been a^varded a doctorate in electrical from Carnegie Tech. Dr. PAUI. SICA is in­terning at Mercy Hosp. in Pittsburgh. 
Keep using those yellow cards. It maices this job eas7' 
1962 UW 
PAUL K. RODNEY 
U.S. COintTHOUSE 
FOLEY SO. 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10007 

BILL KELLY telephoned whHe he was in N.Y. in the latter part of September for some depon­tions. Bill is a litigator with the Ghicaso firm of Pope, Ballard, Uriell, Kennedy, Shepard & Fowle. He and Sarah have two boys and live in Chicago near Evanston. BiU recently ran into the other three Kellys (four out of a class of 46) 
and wife Dean became the proud parents of a daughter Deborah Lynn on May 11. John Is at Yale completing PhD work. He writes that he often sees BOB KLEIN who mairied OGm Paiva on July 1 and is also at Yale. 
Captain NICK WALZ returned from 13 months in Vietnam in Sept. '66 and is stationed at Ynma» Ariz. He was married in Chicago on Feb. 4» 1967 to Sara Johnson (SMC '65). Capt. MI­CHAEL SEXTON has extended for an additional six months in Vietnam. He is stationed at Phan Rang and is fiying F-lOOs. KEVIN HART has entered the Peace Corps and recently began trainr ing in the Truk Islands of the South Fad6c. 
Anny Pvt. BARTLEY M. O'HARA com{^ted a field communications crewman course at Ft. Huachuca, Ariz. JAMES P. MERCURIO now a captain and Army legal officer in A^etnam was defense counsel for a successful defendant in one of the highly publicized court-martials involving the alleged murder of prisoners of war. Jim's client, Lt. John L. Ritrick, was tried in An Khe, South Vietnam for the murder of prisoners on the Bon Song Plains in April. Enlisted men serving under Patrick were found guilty of the crime. PATRICK J. FOLEY has been comnusnoned s captain in the Army at Sheppard AFB, Tex. He was formerly an enlisted USAF legal spedalist at Sheppard. Upon completion of a short orientation 
REUNION *68 

and icporti that lOKE, whoa he anr Hm aam­
ata while ICke waa aitca£a( a tnat atd MiMa 
aemnar la ChicagD, ii m the tratt d^t. af iha 
Victona Bank & Tnat Co. ia Victaria, Tel.; 
PETE, aow named, haa joiacd JDf SIUOUO 
iaOmfieU, OL ia the fina <d tutam » HnH; 
and TOM has left the Rnt Nad. leak if^GU­
cago aad b i joined Im luher i i geadtal piaciiei. 
BiU aba awatioaed that JOBN COSIELUt. wOi 
sngie. it anth Soalh Bead A»«eiate»;;<aO«CK 
VANDEK VENMET J S a miA the lint Nad.' 
Bank oi docago aad JDf GOULD ii a *M n 
in the Grand Ki«idt baa ef Sldd^ IfMJliif ft 
Kice. , . -•-
Mais^ idf aad tne diildna drova mi\§m dbe aannl Lmtytr Aiamm fuliig aad dw Snahr era Cal gaae ami had a very eajajaUe <la|t arilk Sophie and JUf GOEIHALS and the* faar haji in Stoigis, IGch.. Jin h m diaise al lathiaiiil ichtiou at the Stai^ Fooadrr. I didatlate anyone Inaa ov daa at the lamftr Miiiiag bat I ifid have a pleasant chat wids Jiad^ Swy­gert. (Don't taonr 'boot yon, hot I still find dtt teehniqacs stresicd in "ftacdce Coot?', tn be of inestimable vahie in wrt uwiliUMn wnk.) After the game we met Baifaara and JAY CHARON in the bw lomige — one o{ the lev pbees <m the Camprn which has lenaiaed intact. Jaj i* a Etigatar in Gary, Ind. with Spangler, J< aiiiini, Spaa^er ft Doioi^iettr. The Charons have one child and Eve in Gary. Also saw Caml and. JCK SUUHERS, Vmt. Dick Cb ^ a eoipaiate: at­totney with Chnwen, ffirsch, ICDcr ft Gorman in Chia«D and Marge and DAVE HOSINSKI. Dare if the head of the trust dept. at the St. Joseph. Bank ia Soadi Bend and recently pubCshed a book entitled ifiZb a»i Trmsl Formm for tuSnm hawitn. Dave and Marge have five children. 
DICK WILBUR, mtil recently asst.. nuaority counsel for the House Ways and Means Com-, mittee, has entered upon graduate stndy at the Keimedy School of Government at Hazvard-GEORGE FELLEl'lER JR a now a full praf. at Southern Methodist U. School of Law. MIKE FHENNER took a bride in N.Y. mbt e Sep­tember. Understand diat FELIX MACISZEWSKI is ixnr married and assocoated with Henshaw, Contoy ft Hamiltaa in Honohthi, HawaS; that RAY BROWN is not in AnstiaBa hot has opened an office in Flagstaff, Ariz, and that BC» VEVERKA has kicated in Anstin, Minn. See that STAN PEOOKA plans to join die nnka of the married — to Patrida Ana Rata «a Nor. 11­at Sacred Heart Chmdi, Notre Dane. 
Meny Chnstmas to yon and yonn UOB Matsc., Erin, Kath aad idl and for the Meir Ycar:­"Vxf the wind be always at yanr hiAP 
course at the U. of >nrginia he irill lepoft for 
active duty in the Judge Advocate Coipt at Ft. 
Hood, Tex. 
Dr. ROBERT P. SIEFSIS, lAo hat bees a teaching feUosr at Banard, «as appointed ant.­pnf. of Englisb at Lake Forest CoL -Army Vn.., RONALD W. VETI'EL completed ^ht-we ^ of advanced in£mtiT tiaiiiing at Ft. Otd, CaGL in September. USAF Cvt. STEIHEN D. HEN-. NING has been decorated inth two nuEtey medals at Udon Koyal Thai AFB, Thaihad. He. received the Distinguished Flying Cnm and the ^ r Uedal for actins in Southeast Asa. RON­ALD MICHAEL BUDZINSKI is engaged to Mia*~ Jaeqndyn Ann Holewinski of Sooth Bead.' FHIUP F. RILEY m mairied Ang. 19 to 1GB Sheila Ann Fitzgerald in Oak V*A, HL m it doing graduate wok at ND. 
ROBERT JAME$ FKALEIGH earned an I B 
adence at Kenaelaer lUytcdaie Institute. Carnegie . Institute o( Tirlrtnlngy avoided ROBERT LEO HAYES a FhD. *e*. EDWARD C. KRAUSE CSC bffeKd' Ini fat Mas in tins country in the diapd of Senunaiy at ND Jtdy 15. He vn Rome Dec 17 and coigqileted - hii stn£es at Gregorian U. in Rboe arhere he coved hit Bcenliate in saaed theology. THOUAS RAY VECCHIONE received luf >fD bo a the Ohio State U. CoL of Uefidne in Jnne and ii interning at Lot Aagdes County. Unit I Vimf, in Loa Angdes. Aho graduated in tte: immii: das> was THOMAS P. CUFFEL who Is 'a>. temiiv at Akron City Hasp.- in Akma, OU K 
ROBERT M. SAJNOVSKY lecesvcd or ItfA degree at Ohio State IT. FREDERIC KAKL. SOOTT got his deatisliy dtgtec at Western Ke.: serve U. and the steal of medicinr Aeie aoaided RICHARD E. A. SOBONYA an UD . Aiaqr Lienteoant EDWARD W- TUCKER coi«ietal the-adJBtaat geaoal oCccr bmiB COOBW at Ft.. 
Benjamin Harrison, Ind. in June. Ohio State U. 
awarded MD degrees to THOMAS P. CLIFFEL 
and THOMAS R. VECCHIONE. Rutgcra award­
ed A. THOMAS BER.\NEK JR an MBA. 
Dr. JOSEPH P. CHOLLAR, who is now in­

terning at Xladigan General Hosp., Fort Lewis« 
Tacoma, Wash., was graduated from The Jeffcr-^ 
son Medical Col. of Philadelphia in June. ROB­
ERT M. D.-\LE JR was graduated from the 
Georgetown U. Med. School in Washington, DC 
and plans to sen'e bis internship at the IT. of 
Colorado Med. Center, Denver. ROBERT T. 
DIGIULIO was commissioned an Army lieutenant 
after graduating from the Infantry OCS at Ft. 
Bcnning, Ga. in July. JOHN P. MACKIE has 
been appointed professional sales rep. for Pfizer 
Labs, div. of Chas. Pfizer & Co. Inc. NORBERT 
HERMAN R.ASCHER JR earned the juris doctor 
degree at Western Rcscr\'e U. in June. 
THOMAS ALBERT RODGERS received the 

MD degree from the U. of Colorado in June. He 
will be taking an internship in Seattle at the U. 
of Washington Hosp. WALLACE P. BERKO-
Wn Z is serving a surgical internship at U. of 
Chicago hospitals and clinics. He is the pres. of 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 
1100 CLOVE RD., NO. 5-0 
STATEN ISLAND, NY 10301 

1SS4 
JOHN SIEGER graduated last June from George­town Law School, passed the Illinois bar exam and is now working for the US Dept. of Labor in Chicago. He and his wife Mar>' arc expecting their second child in February. D.WE LAHAN­ZIO is a supervising accountant with PE.\T MARWICK after completing his CPA require­ments in Nov. *66. Dave is married to the former Dorothy Rubin; they have one child Kathi Lynn and are liWng in Pittsburgh. DON FOSCATO completed his naval tour of duty, married Linda Tishman of Long Beach, Calif, and is employed by Price-Waterhouse in Virginia. 
MIKE LONG is an attorney for the Bankruptcy Div. of the US District Court in Hartford, Conn. Mike graduated from the U. of Conn. Law School in June, passed the bar in August and was mar­ried to Ann O'Connell in September. Even after all this he had the energy to register as a full-time MBA student at the U. of Conn, in October. Ens. JIM WEBSTER is at the Naval School of Aeronautical Science at the U. of W^tem Florida. Upon graduation he will receive an MS plus his flight wings. Jim ^v-as ranked first in lus class at mid-term. 
ANDY O'DWYER will receive his MD from Northwestern next June. He was married to ^fag­gie Leach in June *66 and they now have a son, Kevin. Their address is 626 W. Waveland, Chi­cago. JOHN FLECKENSTEIN received his MBA from the U. of Chicago and is with Industrial Nucleonics Corp. in Columbus, Ohio. He is mar­ried to the former Frances Murphy and they had their first child a daughter in September. Other new parents are Carolync and PETE MUR­RAY who welcomed a son Eric also in September. First Lt. GREG BRADFORD is a flight naviga­tor aboard B-52's out of Wright Patterson AFB in Dayton, Ohio. He and his wife have a year> cUd daughter Karen. 
lAURIE GOTP is in his fourth year at the TJ. of Illinois Med. School. He was married this September to Mary Kay Duffy (SMC '66). Also mazTied last summer were JIM GLE.ASON and Mary Petricca (SMC *66). Jim is working for Champion Mills in Rochester, N.Y. MIKE COYLE is in his fourth year at the College of Physidans and Surgeons, Columbia U., NYC. FRITZ HOLZGREFE is gen. mgr. of the poultry products div. of Ralston Purina Dc Venezuela. Fritz married Jean Secnolf (Marymount Col. '64) in January and they are living in Maracay, Vene­zuela. 
PETE UTRENTA served three tours in Viet­nam as a communications officer in the Navy. Recently he was transferred to the Navy public Phi Delta Epsilon med. fraternity and held an NIH grant for research in anatomy. Capt. JAMES 
R. BEST was graduated from the Air U. Squad­ron Officer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. He received special recognition during the ceremonies as a member of the group that was a%vaTded the Academic Excellence Trophy. Army Pvt. MYRON 
J. BUSBY JR completed an eight-week ad­

• ministration course in August at Ft. Leonard 
'Wood, &(o. Capt. JAMES O. EIDE is now aide-de-camp to Maj. Gen. Frank G. White, com­manding general of the US Axmy Munitions Command. Capt. DONALD J. RYAN JR re­ceived the ^vcr bars of his new rank in recent ceremonies at the Army's First Recruiting Dist. HQ. in Fort George G. Meade, Md. 
DON GILLESPIE is now Dr. Gillespie and is in California on his internship. ROBERT M. GILBO CSC was ordained a priest Sept. 15 in Santiago, Chile. He is to be assigned to one of the parishes or other institutions of the congre­gation in Chile. JOHN G. HOGAN became dir. of info, services at Piedmont Aviation Inc. in September. JAMES M. HESS was commissioned an Army lieutenant after graduating from In-
affairs office in Holly^vood, Calif, doing liaison 
work for the Navy with the TV and motion 
picture industry. He and his wife Linda arc liv­
ing in Burbank where she is teaching school. 
Pete also writes that RON GILLES is on shore 
duty in San Diego and will be married this mn­
ter. Other interesting notes in Pete's letter arc: 
JOE AlAYER is a boat commander in the Me­
kong Delta, JOE STINEMAN is on a destroyer 
and TOM WUKOVITS is fl^ng Navy jets. 
First Lt. PETE KUMP is a platoon leader with the 3rd Marines operating in the northern prov­inces of Vietnam. First Lt. JOHN NAGE, his wife Carolyn and son John Jr. are at Fort Bel­voWy Va. John received his MSCE from N D and served a tour as engineering officer in South Korea. Summer graduates of the U. of Texas Law School are GEORGE CALLAHAN. CHRIS CAR­MOUCHE (Texas Capital Corp., Austin) BEN MUNSON, TOM SCHNITZIUS (Ford) SKIP­PER VAUGHN (Texas U., MBA). Chris and his wife Quita had a daughter Mary Claire last spring. 
Jl&f MASON and his wife welcomed a second boy. Jim is employed by Consumers Power Co* in Jackson, Midi, developing computer applica­tions. Jim had a recent article published in a technical journal on computer analyns of gas regulator capacity. WAYNE ALLEN is coaching football and teaching at Salcaanum HS in Wil­mington, Del. His wife presented him with a new daughter hist spring. BRUCE O'NEILL graduated in June from Marquette Law and will serve as a law clerk at Wisconsin Supreme Court in Madison. He and his wife Barbara have two sons. Lt(jg) J. D. KOLATA is aboazd the sub­marine Sea Leopard. He writes that fellow sub officer TOM BARD is on the Runner. TOM Iktin^INAZZI received his MSCE from Pixxdue and is now pursuing his PhD. 
1964 LAW 
THOMAS F. C»NNEELY 
MORIARTY, ROSE, 
FACCENDA & HULTQinST 
ONE NORTH LASALLE ST. 
SUITE 701 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 

You have all heard the old saying about things commg in bunches. Well, your faithfol tcribe believes it this tone around the typewriter ribbon. First came a veritable avalanche of mail, then came news of many births and last came the '*sccne on ten-fourteen.*' 
The avalanche began with a card from Mr. Justice FINDLAY who reports that he is still with the Dist. of Columbia Corp. Counsel's Office and presently engaged in the tax dept. He is getting a wealth of exposure in everything from tmtry OCS. Ft, Bcnning, Ga. SHAUN BUR-NS has returned from Nigeria and is attending UCLA in pursuit of his master's degree in Afro-American Studies. 
THOMAS JOSEPH MURPHY received a PhD in chemistry in August at Iowa State. Dr. (Capt.) GEORGE J. CHOBY completed a medical service officer basic course in September at Brooke Army Med. Center, Ft. Sam Houston, Tex. After nine years of teaching at Regis HS in Cedar Rapids, Rev. MARTIN LAUGHLIN has been transferred to the American Martyrs Retreat House as asst. dir. Lt. JOHN J. IMPERIAL completed an ordnance officer course Sept. 11 at the Army Ordnance School, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. ROBERT 
J. KONOPA has been admitted to practice law in Indiana and is an associate in the South Bend law firm of Crumpackcr, May, hcvy &. Scarer. 
1963 LAW 
JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN 1526 E. CEDAR ST. SOUTH BEND, DID. 46617 

criminal trials through appellate worli and is en­joying Washington so much that he moved hb rcddence to suburban Bethesda, Md. He would welcome visitors therein at 4970 Battery Lane, Apt. 609. The avalanche ended with a lengthy letter from Capt. MIKE STEPANEK, presently serving as Chief of the Military Justice Branch at Fort Huachuca, Ariz. He and Judy antici­pate returning to the Chicago area in about a year. The really big nc»« in his letter leads right into the next division — 
The "Changing" Scene: To Judy and MIKE STEPANEK, a boy, Patrici Michael, on March 
30. To Helene and BERNIE KATZ, a boy, Allan Seth, Dec. '66. Maria and MIKE RYAN, a girl, Mary Janet, in August. To Jackie and MIKE SULLIVAN, a girl, Maura Kathleen, in August. To Ctaudette and GERALD VAIRO, a boy, Stephen Dominic, in September. Con­gratulations, parents and good luck, offspring I 
The "ten-fourteen scene" \fas a grand time due to the fine efforts of TOM KERN and CHUCK SWEENEY who combined their talents and time to put on a s^vell party. Compared to last year's be-in it was a bit tame due only to the fact that the Ford Motor Co. thought it needed the draft­ing talents of HURLEY SMITH more than we needed his plucking talents. There w^is a good turnout for part or all of the festivities. To wit: the ZAVODNYIKs, the KERNs, the SWEENEYs, the SULLIVANs, the RYANs, the VAlROs, the JIGANTIs, the MESSINAs, the CASHs, the CONNEELYs, CAROL KILLIAN, GENE KRA­MER, RUSS BLEY, BILL FLAHERTY, CHAR­LIE O'MALLEY, JIM SUTHERLAND, BOB FROST and JACK RAilMEL. Of course the Trojans spoiled a beautiful Homecoming day (sunburns were in evidence] but KERN and SWEENEY and the folks at Holly's provided soothing liquids and hearty food respectively and the evening ended all too quickly. 
A flu bug prevented the GALLICKs from get­ting there and wouldn't you know Peter was unheard from again. The word making the rounds was that BALFE WAGNER and JIM MERCURIO are both at JAG HQ in Washington and that Jim was married to Nancy (?) on 10-14. We missed seeing him but his excuse will be accepted. Planning for the Third Annual Sem­inar has begun and by next issue we ought to be able to give you the date. 
There is more news but I will hoard it for the next column on the slim chance that my sources win dry up and everyone will have a severe relapse of nonwritingitis. But it won't really happen, will it classmates? How about a word or two from JIM CARROLL, MIKE MILLER and JOE MYLOTTE? 
Here's wishing each of you a Holy and Happy Christmas and a Bountiful New Year. 
JAMES P. HARNISCH Apt. B 
863 E. GRANVILLE RD. 
COLUMBUS. OHIO 43224 

1913 
Please note the above address change. The mail and information arc pouring in at a steady rate— so much so that due to a word limitation rule not all the current news u^Il appear in this issue. Interesting items are still needed, though, so keep those yellow cards coming. 
JIM GOETZ was married Nov. 25 to Kathleen 

M. Connors of Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Jim is in his third year at Ohio St. Med School and in his spare time has served as a tennis pro and instructor for several country clubs. KEN GEOLY was presented last July with a daughter Michael Ann by his wife Bemie. Ken b in his last year at Downstate Med School, N.Y. LEE MC­CARTHY is also a proud father of a daughter Bridget Mary bom last April to his wife Bobbie 
(SMC '66). Since January Lee has been a staff reporter with WTOP radio and TV in Wash­ington, DC. 
More proud parents include PAT ROCGO and 

Sandy. Daughter Lisa was bom in April. Pat is working for the city of Euclid, Ohio while attending Western Reserve Law School. TOM HOGAN and MIKE MURPHY are both serving as prefects in the undergrad dorms during their final year at Georgetown Law School. Pi\T MURPHY and Lynn arc living in Huntsville, Ala. where the Army is utiliring his metallurgy talents. JOHN ZULBERTI received his MBA from Syracuse U. in marketing and is now with DuPont in the Electro-Chem. Div. at Wilmington, DeL JIM BROCKE has become an account exec. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

in the Gary, Ind. office of Walston and Co., Inc., 
one of the nation's largest securities firms. Jim 
is also treasurer ol the Crown Point Jaycees and 
a member of the Stockbrokers Assoc, of Chicago. 
JIM TEDFORD u-as married to Claudia Louise 

Brake of Burbank, Calif., last June. Jim is in 
his third year at UCLA Med School. MAT 
COSGROVE has been appointed dir. of tech 
services for Datanamics Corp. of America and 
ROBERT DilORIO was promoted to assoc engr. 
by IBM in Endicott, N.Y. Lt. JOHN BRADY 
is flying for TAG at George AFB, Calif, and Lt. 
JIM ZENZINGER is stationed at Sheppard AFB, 
Tex. while training as a transportation officer. 
NEIL KIcDONALD was graduated with honors 
from OCS at Fort Benning where he was com­
missioned second lieutenant in the Army Adju­
tant Gen. Corps. He is now stationed at Keesler 
AFB, BUoxi, Afiss. studying communications elec­
tronics. Alike was married to Jean VoUwciIcr on 
the day he u'as commissioned in June at the Air 
Base Chapel, Lackland AFB, San Antonio, Tex. 
JOHN RIFFLE is back in Redwood City, Calif, 
after being released from the Army. He spent a 
year cra^vHng around the Vietnam jungle where 
he earned a silver star for gallantry in action. Lt. 
KEVIN REGAN received the Bronze Star in 
Vietnam. JERRY PREMO was married to 
Martha Johanck in Rochester, N.Y. in October. 
Jerry is working for HEW in Washington, DC. 
JOHN and BILL McDONALD are both in their 
last year at Columbia Law School. Bill plans to 
enter Na\-y OCS after graduation. JOHN 
HUARTE is the father of a son John Matthew 
as of last June and BILL FERRENCE was pre­
sented with a son William G. l U last December 
by his wife Cheryl Lynn. Bill works in revenue 
accounting for United Airlines ia the Chicago 
exec, offices. 
Some of the graduate degrees earned include: 
FRED ALTHEN, MBA, Rutgers; JOHN BEL­
LANY, MFA in sculpture, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology; JAMES EIFERT. MS, Ohio St. U.; 
PAUL MONTUORI, MS in mcch. engr., Rens­
selaer Polytechnic Institute; PETER EDMUND 
DeBRUIN, MSCE, Polytechnic Institute of 
Brooklyn; JIM FLINT, CHARLES TERRENCE 
SMITH, JI.\I MIRRO, MICHAEL D. MURPHY, 
BOB KURAS, DICK BERRY and IGNACIO 
D. FLORES, MBA degrees at Harvard. 
RAY McLAiN and wUc Suzie are the proud parents of a daughter Meeghan Anne as of last July. JIM EPSTEIN is in his third year at Wash­
RICHARD ANGELOTTI 8640 SOUTH 86TH AVE., APT. 203 JUSTICE. ILL. 60458 

196S 
After receiving information cards for the past couple months it seems to me that this country would have no defense if it were not for the members of our Class. The clear majority of the cards I received — and **thank you" there was a ton of them — were from '66-ers presently in the employ of the government. This conse­quently will be my "Uncle Sam" article. 
Lt. BOB CAVANAUGH recently graduated from the officer orientation course at Ft. Sam Houston. He is now asst. adjutant of the US Army dispensary at the Pentagon. Lt. HANK SCHLAGHTER is a food man also serving as a food administration officer at Ft. Lee. JOHN CAVAN who recently became a senior officer in OTS was married in Short Hills, N.J. to the lovely Miss Joanne Winn on Oct. 7. The newly­weds honeymooned in F^get, Bermuda. It was a terrible disappointment for me to have to miss the wedding of my ex-roommate and one of my dearest friends but circumstances prevented my being there. 
^fa^riagcs are in the news for many of our Class' soldiers. ANDY McCULLIN is a lieu­tenant in Thailand now where he is serving as a construction platoon leader. He was recently engaged to SMCer Ellen Simonini. CHRIS­TOPHER AfEAD is stationed %vith Marine air control squadron 7 at Camp Pendleton, Calif, and is e>cbaUing a January Wedding date. GEORGE ADAMS is in Saigon and was recently promoted to first lieutenant. He is planning a June wedding. Ens. GARY HEDIGER was mar­ried April 15 at ND and is now stationed aboard the USS Washburn home-based at San Diego. CH.\RLES PEARL JR who was married last October U'as recently commissioned an ensign and is now stationed at Long Beach, Calif. Lt. PHILIP WrrHUM W3S married on Aug. 5 three days after his graduation from transporta­tion OCS at Ft. Eustis, Va. He ivas stationed at Ft. Bclvoir, Va. until November and then left for a two-year &tay in Alaska, 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
ington U. Med School in St. Louis. Jim has 
also found time to indulge in research wack in 
renal physiology. GARY THEBAULT is serving 
as sales mgr. for the Edward Hines Lumber Co. 
in John Day, Ore. After receiving a master's in 
political sdence from U. of Catifonua, Bcfkelcy, 
LARRY STEFANI yielded to the Army and is 
now serving as a lieutenant with a transportation 
company in Qui Nohn, A^etnam. He was mairied 
last April to Susan Posson of San Francisco. 
TIM KRISTL was married to Carol Creamer 

(SMC '66) and is in his last year at N D Law 
School, tt. DICK DUFOUR is at Ft. CampbeU, 
Ky. with the 101st Airmobile Div. Lt. KENN 
ODMARK has returned from a tour of duty in 
Korea. PHIL BALDWIN is working as a research 
staff chemist with Goodyear Tire and Rubber 

Co.'s research div. in Akron, Ohio. BILL METZ 
was married to Anne Flannigan (SMC '65) in 
the chapel at Yale U. where Bill is working to­
ward his PhD in nuclear physics. 
Lt. (jg) EVALYN AflLLOTF is one of the 

few girl graduates from ND*s grad school who 
is not a nun. Since her giaduatioa under the 
AIAT program she has been serving as an air 
intelligence officer with the US I^cific Fleet. Lt. 
BILL SIDDENS received his MS in aerospace 
engr. at ND in August and worked for Pratt and 
Whitney ^rcraft before the Army decided it was 
time for a visit to Ft. Knox. Also with Rratt 
and Whitney and having received the same MS 
at ND is JACK BOWDEN. Jack, wfe Judy 
and daughter Katherine are living in £ . Hart­
ford, Conn. Another ND master's degree winner 
is DICK BELL who is working for McDonnell 
in St. Louis and sharing an apartment there with 
MIKE HEINZ. RAY BLAKE was married in 
June to Lynette Sorow of Chicago. Ray has been 
employed by Commonwealth Edison Co. in the 
engr. dept. since graduation. RANDY BROWN 
has completed his tour with the Navy and is now 
at the U. of Minnesota Law SchooL 
1965 LAW 
JOHN A. HAUTER 
1050 INDIANA AVE. 
GLENWOOD, ILL. 60^5 

A wonderfully ncu-s-filled letter from the fhhtxtf% brinss us up to date on their happenings. As some of you may know MIKE FLAHERTY went into practice with bis brother Tom following graduation. *'Last February Mike and atlother 
BOB RIVIELLO is currently stationed with the 101st Airborne Div. in Vietnam. He uras recently promoted to first lieutenant and has been awarded the Infantryman's Combat MedaL He will return to the states in March '68. Lt-MIKE BERNATH who is a maintenance ofBcer with a transportation company in Mannheim, Germany is the proud father of a new son. Lt. and Mrs. JpHN HANNIGAN JR had a popu­lation explosion on July 4, a son John IH. Lt. JOHN BLUM became a father on Aug. 16. He is presently stationed at Ft. McArthur, Calif. JACK HANNIGAN and BILL ST. PAUL fin­ished pilot school in August. Bill will be flying in Vietnam and Jack will be flying a B-52 out of Griffias AFB, N.Y. JOHN PAVLIC is the battalion adjutant for the 15th Ordnance Bn. in Frankfurt. 
Lt. WILEY J. PICKETT JR. was commisnoncd recently from transportation OCS where he was also a distinguished military graduate. He is presently stationed at Alexandria, Va. where he is in H Q military traffic management and terminal 
SOCIETY EDITORS are finally getting used to writing "both the bride and groom" are graduates of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. An event that once was unheard of has become a frequent occurrence on Campus — at least during the summer marryin' months. One of these happy oll-in­the-family happenings was Aug. 16 when Miss Patricia Anne McGuire AAA '67 (the daughter of Dr. and AArs. Francis T. McGuire '35) became the bride of Robert Eugene Kasten '65. University President Rev. Theodore IA. Hesburgh CSC presided. 
lawyer opened an evening practice in S. BoBda 
qilitting the nights." Mike is abo buying real 
estate for rental puipmei! Does he get the 
"tycaon.of-the-)car" award ior this year? Mite 
daims to have qioken with KAY LUM back ia 
September. Bay> >be proud father of a second 
daughter, bom last July, has lost 5S lbs. Wookl 
we lecogniie him? LARRY SHINNICK, a new 
gToom, now is living at 2530 "Q" St. N.W. No. 
25, Washington, DC. He married a beantifiil 
SMC gal Carolyn Fleming '65. Mike daherty 
was best man. Larry, now starting his second 
year as an asst. US attorney, has received his 
master's in law. He was law tiak for Dist. Jodie 
Joseph C McCimghy in '85-'86. 
Capt. ROBERT P. KENNEDY just recentir sailed on the USS United States to Emtipe on his way to became liaison between the town and camp for a three-year tenure. How about send­ing them a card this Christmas telling them all about life in the States: address OF lOSSOB, 3id Admin. Co., 3td Inf. Div., AFO N.Y. 09036. Ever wonder what became of FRANK WALZ? He and wife Coolde took a 5,000.inile, five weeks motor trip to show off daughter Kathy bom May 22 seeing as many relatives as humaidy pos­sible. Frank is workii^ for the firm of O'Coa­nor. Green, Thomas, Waters & Kelly in down­town Minneapolis: Apt. 302, 953 40th Ave. NJi, Columbia Hts., Minn. 
That gay blade, MIKE BISHKO recently joined the married roster. Jan and I attended the huge wedifins held in Qu-town in late summer. Miks has inherited sisters-ift-law by the half dosea and all Italian beauties. Mike and Carol axe living in N.Y. where Mike works for Aitbar Young & Co. and is attending NYU. DENNIS STEROSKY and Doris are proud parents once again! Greg Martin was bom Ang. 14. Otar address for Denny is 33555 Crestbell Dr., Wanen, Mich. 48092. 
Due to the Christmas season approadung I s u adding some recent address changes herrin: JOHN 
H. MARTIN, 52 Linden Dr., Santa Clara, CaSf., 95050; HENRY BOITEL, 7501 Ridge Bhrd., Brooklyo. N.Y.; JON KRUPNICK, 130 N.E. 57th St., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33308. I canoot urge strongly enough for you to send some newi of yourself and family — even if only a sentence or two within your Christmas card. Bear in mind that this column is only as good as yoa make st! Enough philosophy for today—a last hope that yoa have a happy and hotf holiday season. 
service as a research and s^ems analyst 1 puter progranuning. GARRETT ISACCO who is stationed at Eufanla Air Force Station in Alabama is enjoying the txt that Notre Dame is playing ball games tlown South. 
JIM KEARNS is romhining school and the service. He went to U. of Illinois Graduate School and vras commisaoned a second lien* tenant in the Army on Ang. II. He reports for duty on Dec. 1 at Ft. BeWmr, Va. TOH BER­GEN is currently at Sheppard AFB in Texat. 
Tcnn was past Grand Knight of Notre Dame K of C. GEORGE PALMER was recently as­ttgned to a basic training brigade at Ft. Dix, N.J. and then to on-the-job training at Ft. Campbell, Ky. He expects to return home to Jacksonville where he will be worlung for Thomson and Mc-Kinnoa as a stockbroker. lA. JOHN RUM­INECZ was au'arded the Army-Navy and Air Force gold watch for graduating nimiber one in an infcvmation officer class at Ft. Benjamin Harrison. This was a 1000-hour course conducted imder the auspices of the defense information sdiool. [Captain Pickett Lumpkin of the Office of Defense Information made the award.] 
TIM STREB one of our lengthiest correspon­dents completed OCS at Ft. Eustis, Va. with a commission in the transportation corps. While at Ft. Eustis he ran into BILL SELLERBERG, BILL WENTWORTH, JOHN FLATLEY, PAT RYAN. BOB HARRIGAN and WILEY PICKETT. Bill Wentworth who is sporting a '67 Corvette is going to harbor craft and deck operations school. John is an instructor at Eustis in the motor transport branch. Fat is currently at Ft. Bragg. N.C. 
Ens. PAUL FIEBERG shipped out of San Francisco in August bound for his second tour of Japan, Hong Kong and then off for the coast of Vietnam. Paul is currently aboard the USS Coral Sea and is due back in the states in Fthruaxy. After all the above information. Tim finally told me a little about himself. He is presently a training officer in California where he has purchased a new Corvette. He states the car has made the service a little more bearable but he's still anxious to retiun to civilian life. 
The hardest, and most difficult task of this job is to tell you of the death of one of our class­mates and it is with great regret that I must do such in this article. Kfarine Lt. WILLIAM 
A. WILK was killed in action July 29 near Quang Nam, Vietnam while on a patrol mission. He had been sent to Vietnam in May after recci«ng top honors in training at Ft. Sill. Okla. He is survived by his wife of 14 months Elaine and an infant son William A. Jr. To them I express our Class' sincere condolences. Our memories of Bill vnH always be most pleasant and I hope that BUI Jr. with grow up to be the same kind of wonderful man his father w-as. 
There are many others from whom I have received cards but about Avhom space does not allow me to write this month. Thanks for your great response. Please keep it coming and look for your names in the Jan.-Feb. issue. 
•I hope you all have a wonderful holiday season. I also hope 1967 was a year that held great things for eadi of you and a year that vnH always bring %vonderful memories to your minds. I also hope that 1968 will be a most enjo>-abIe year for you all and that it will see the fulfillment of all your hopes and dreams. 
1966 LAW 
FRANK GREGORY 
7403 KEYSTONE LANE 
FORESTVILLE, MD. 20028 

I am always happy to begin by noting the new arrivals. Cookie was eaiiy for the second time and Lauren Sue was bom on Sept, 21. We now have a boy and a giri. She ^veighed 6 lbs. 8 oz. and mother and baby are doing fine. We intro­duced her to the sodal life of the laW graduate at a Christening party on Oct. 8. All the local ND lawyers were present. John Paul was bom June 24 to Bonnie and STEVE SEALL. Their new address is 2020 Dorwood Dr.. South Bend. TOM McNALLY phoned in the nudst of a qmck trip to DC to tell us that he had completed his ax months* reserve obligation and is practicing in Cincinnati. He and Joan expect their first duld soon. Thar address is 2477 Westwood N. Blvd., CindnnatL Tom also reported that SAM BER­NARDI and Barb were "crowing*' over the birth of Sam HI. who also' weighed in at the very popular 6 Dn., 8 oz. According to Sam the baby "is a real cool character." 
Barb BERNARDI has. I hope, started a trend by sending along infoimaUon. If you husbands are too busy to write, put your wife to work. The traditional Christmas card is a fertile source of news. Barb wrote that she and SAM have moved bom. I^mmond and are living at 1211 
E. Chicago, Valparaiso, Ind. 46383. Sam is enjoying practice at Jennings. Spangler, Jennings & Dougherty in Gary. She also says that their feelings were "hurt" when the Army turned Sam down because of high-blood pressure. 
Sue and JIM VIRGIL have a son named Eric. Jim is working in Elkhart with his dad. MAURY NELSON reported seong Jim and Steve SealL 
Maury vinted Washington with his funily dtnins 
the summer. Windy McKENNA, aaother of asy 
female reporters, notes that she and AL are 
residing at 1699 B Bumstock, Colmnbiis, Ohio 

43206. Al passed the NY Bar and finished fourth 
in Oluo. He likes doUng for Judge Kinneaiy 
and also likes Columbus. They will be Mtajag 
for some time and would like to see and hear 
from classmates. FRANK REISER's new addres 
is Apt. 10. 3816 P^, Kansas City. Mo. 64111. 
BOB MiniFHY %ras in Detnrit in connection 
with his Justice Dept. u-ork. He ^lent an eve­
ning with Terri and BOB KRAUSE and Bfaiy 

and TOM READY. Tom bought a home in 
Monroe. Mich. Bob was at the Cafifonua game 

and talked with RON VETTEL. They were 
miable to locate anyone else. PAUL POLKING 
will be carier to locate after next June. He has 
announced his engagement to Mix Joan Ycager 
a registered nurse. They Kvill marry in Carlisle 
Fa. Ob, the thousands of weeping maidens! 
Cookie and I visited Etta and SCOTTY MAX­

WELL at Quantico just before they headed for 
Newport and Navy JAG. They and tilie two 
boys are fine. I received a letter irom JIM 
ANTHONY postmarked An Khe, South Vietnam. 
Jim is mth the first Air Cav. Div. and is han­
dling various criminal and civil matters. Addrcsi: 
Cpt. J. R. Anthony, JAGG. 05331105, 15th Admin. 
Co. (SJA). 1st Cav. {Air), APO San Francisco, 
CaUf. 96490. 
Scotty Maxwell has been writing to FETE 

IPFOLrrrO. Pete has extended tus time in 
Vietnam (his VMI education is coming to the 
fore) and is now with the 1st Inf. Div. up north. 
Address: 1st Admin. Co. (SJA) 1st Inf. Div., 
APO San Francisco. Calif. 96345. I reported re> 
cently that TOM HARVEY had converted his 
Army time into a nice legal job with NASA-
Well, Tom got bored with the good life. He 
has undergone ranger and airborne trumng and 
has volunteered for combat duty in Vietnam-
JOE DELLA MARIA wiU be ass^ed to DC 
after completing Navy JAG. RAY STARMANN, 
formeriy of Army intelligence command in Bald-
more, is on his way to Vietnam. 
It seems lUce half the Class is on the way to war. I had a letter from DENNY "COOL" DEE complaining about the lack of equal time for the girls who want news of Um. He reports that "coolness pervaded his every act" as he smoothly travelled &om Fort Knox to Fort Gordon, Ga« where he underwent training as a tsvH affairs officer. His group is going to Vietnam where be will be assigned to some remote ^^llage to cement democratic institutions. Denny notes that the price on his head will be high. At Fort Gordon he got a lot of experience in court-martials. Give Denny the cool word by writing to him c/o U.S.M.A.CV0 APO San Frandsco, Calif. 96222. 
Denny ran into TOM PETERSON who en­tered on active duty with the military police at Fort Gordon. Tom is one of the ludy ones who is going overseas, but not to Ana. Hell be sta­tioned in Germany. Denny also saw a |Hctnre of "SMILING ED" KOHLBRENNER and.his bride. MAURICE O'BRIEN was snatched from the office of the Attorney General of Iowa by his draft board. In lightning speed he adva^iced from private to captain and was diqatched to JAG school at the U. of Va. He'U probably be joining the other Irish at Fort Bliss, Tex. in the near future. 
PioL JACK "CHIEF" BRODERICK sends his best to the Class and reports the wonderful news that there will be six home games in 'GS. JAY DOUGHERTY'S firm in Miami is Dixon, De-Jamette, Bradford, Williams. &&£ay ft KmbrtU. and he looks forward to hosting anyone at the game Thank^ving weekend. NORM MANDEL spent some time at the Army intelligence center in Baltimore and then headed bac^ for Texas. Summer is just about over at this writing and ao are vacations. BOB MURPHY spent the summer in Misasnppi and Maureen spent it on Cape Cod. Next year they are determined to avoid another impasse and sdect a neutral spot. PAUL POLK­ING went home and stopped at ND. He avoided the robbery at Cliff's Tavern but noted that, during school, the gunmen could have found him in attendance any Saturday night at 10 pjn. 
The PAUL NIEMEYERS vinted school iriiile seeing Paul's folks. They also q>cnt tome time with Susan's parents in Cory, EL. Terri and BOB KRAUSE went to the land of the Sky Bloe Waters while Cookie and I took a fittle time to tour Washington and the surrounding area. We weren't exotic but we were rested. 
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to everyone from the four Gregorys. 
JOHN J. HUGHES 99 W. 37th ST. 
BAYDNNE, NJ . 070QZ 

1987 
With the ritnation dicing the college graduate 
bdng what it is today we find that most of our 
classmates either took advantage of their defer­
ments to attend grad schotJ or have gone directiy 
into the service, with quite a number of them 
getting married since graduation in June. 
On June 10 MIKE STOKES and Frances Sulli­
van were married in St. Louis where they arc now 
living. ACke will be studying law at St. Louis U. 
There was a flock of Alumni at the wedding in-
chiding BILL HANIGAN. JOHN COYLE, BILL 
RAGEN, and BILL McNULTY. Hanigan and 
Coyle are attending Stritch Med School while 
Ragen and McNulty will both be studying law 
in Chicago. JOE OLSON nras also married on 
June 10 in St. Louis. He and his mfe the former 
Mary Louise Landwehr will be Uving temporarily 
near the campus of Duke U. where Joe vnll be 
Mtudyiag law. 
There were also a number of marriages in South 
Bend during the summer. JIM QUENAN and 
Joan Marie Nagy were married there on Aug. 26. 
Jim is studjnng medicine at Ikfarquette while Joan, 
having completed her graduate wtirk, will be 
teaching math there. On the same day LESLIE 
STEHMER vras married in Our Lady Chapel on 
Campus. He and his wife the former Gayla Marie 
"Maxxotto will be living in Miami where he mil be 
studying business. TO&f RIECK and Penelope 
Anne Doherty were married on June 10 in Chi­
cago. VERN RODEN, DICK LUDWIG, and 
BOB BROWNE attended the wedding. Tom was 
working for Ernst & Ernst during the summer 
as an "in-charge" accountant. As of September 
he began attesting Loyola's business program full 
time and they are planning to remain in Evanston. 
JIM McINERNEY and Monica Deubel were mai^ 
ricd on Aug. 19 in South Orange. N.J. They are 
reading here while Jim is studying law at Fordham. 
There does seem to be a large number of us at 
law school. MIKE O'CONNELL is at the U. of 
Connecticut; TERRY MAHONEY is at Illinois; 
JOE McCOY and JOHN LIUM are over at St. 
John's, while RICK TROY is with me at Seton 
HaD. RICH DINALLO, PAUL KELLY, MIKE 
CONVOY are at Geoigetou-n. 
There are of course many who are completing dieir requirements in the service. ANDY REAR­DON is down at Pensacola with AL KRAMER and GEORGE FRAWLEY. They are all in flight school and doing quite well. Andy is en­gaged to Kfichele Berard and they are planning to be married on Dec 27 in Washington, Mo. CHARLES REICHT is now a second lieutenant attached to Barksdale AFB, La. Cbariie was mar­ried on June 10 to Rosalind Ann Homing and thcmgh he attended supi^y school during October in Denver, they seem intent on making their resi­dence in Louinana for the present. Lt. TOM CX)USINO is now stationed in California at Mather AFB and is working with the 320th Bomb Wing of SAC as administrative officer. He men­tioned that he ran into DON CO.AKLEY at &&thcr; he is attending their undergraduate nan­gator training prog, and is attached to 3535th Navigator Training Wing. 
There, of course, have been many graduate honors received by the members of the Class. BARRY KEATING received an NSF grant amounting to 96,000. He is now studpng at Lehigh U. and expects to get his MA ntxx Sep­tember. JOSEPH PAUL ANDERSON has been awarded the 1967 Ernst & Ernst Fellowship to Harvard's Graduate School of Buaness and is en­rolled in the two-year program leading to an MBA degree. BILL DONOHUE has been awarded a fellowship for graduate study in urban plan­ning at the U. of Illinois. PETER TIERNEY and DAN DONOVEN have been accepted as Peace Corps Volunteers. Peter wiU be in St. Luda, woiking on upgrading teaching methods and cur^ ricula, while Dan mil be teaching in grammar school in the Philippines. 
Although I had received very little correspond­ence during the summer it picked up quite a bit vnth the beginning of the football season and I hope that it will continue. If you get the oppor­tunity i\'rite a note or perhaps a Christmas card and let me know of any new developments. And have a good holiday season. 
1967 lAW 

MICHAEL SMITH and ALFONSO MA­GNOTTA are both involved in training for foreign u&gnmcnts in the Peace Corps. Mike recently comidetcd the Peace Corps course in San Fran­cisco and expects to be assigned to Momnvia, LUieria. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19<7 DECEMBER 

'^I'tmamr'sJ^m 
at Bddtdh^j'Iie 1 ^
LAW SCHOOL ^1 
hirtary (leputraB^ 
PROF. ED MURPHY, MRS. OLIVAREZ and JUDGE NAGAYAMA Frosh profile bespeaks the unusuaL 
All About the Here and Now 
TH E LAW SCHOOL enrolled 120 first­' year students in August; total en­rollment for the year stood at 258. 
Fifty-nine law students are Notre Dame men; the other 199 represent 86 other colleges and universities. The student body comes from 36 states, Canada and Japan. Their ages range from 20 to 44; 75 of them are mar­ried, and 16 are veterans. Towering athletes in die first-year class—^some of them former collegiate stars and some from professional clubs — threaten revolution in the Law School's intramural touch football competition. 
Backgrounds in the new class range from an incumbent Indiana state senator (Leonard Opperman of South Bend) to a criminal judge from Tokyo (Tadahiko Nagayama) who is at Notre Dame for a year's study of the common law and American crim­inal law and procedure. The class has one lady, Mrs. Graciela Olivarez from Arizona. Mrs. Olivarez comes from a background of Spanish-lan­guage radio and television, social work with Mexican-Americans and Indians and administrative direction of war­on-poverty programs in the Southwest. Symposium. The spring symposium on public law will be February 12 arid will be devoted to "Improving the Administration of Criminal Law." Professor G. Robert Blakey is partici­pating chairman. Other speakers committed at this writing include Professor Henry S. Ruth, Jr., of the University of Pennsylvania; Eliot H. Lumbard, former special counsel to the governor of New York; and 
Herbert H. Isaacs, a specialist on science in law enforcement Faculty. Dean Joseph O'Meara (and 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER \9S7 DECEMBER 
Mrs. O'Meara) spent October in 
Lima, Peru, on a consultation missicm 
to the law school at the Catholic Uni­

versity there. 
Professor Conrad Kellenberg was honored by a resolution in September of the directors of the Legal Aid Society of St. Joseph County. TTie society expressed its "deep and sincere appreciation" for his services as a director of the society and for his "competent attention to the affairs of the society" and his "dedicated leader­ship." Professor Kellenberg has been project director of the Office of Economic Opportunity (O.E.O.) — funded l^al services program in South Bend and is continuing to serve as coordinator for programs employ­ing law students. 
Leaves for three full-time Faculty members brought a new complexicm to the Law School's teachii^ staff. Assistant Dean Thomas F. Broden Jr. KSG was appointed chief of the training and technical assistance division of the O.E.O. He is now at work in Washington, DC; he and his family will live in \^i^inia. 
Professor John T. Noonan Jr. ac­cepted a position on the factdty. of the University of California Law School idutia;d)m-'m>IJBOBail)CT 
copirK:;in;Pueito^ltioai;^:^ the -> 
summer..: m.^aii't 
l^alpragram 
erj'in:CalifoniML»-=X7~>?v>SI^ .' 
FOOT manbea €i ibeSaa!30^ 
Bar arefiUiE^ Fao^ty guni^-^Tiinri 
Jcdin A; Bucdmnldi^lM^iw 
teacbes torts^ smd JadoMS I^'l^n^ 
buig,. John^L.':. Carey :inii:;EawJwi|J^ 
Gray:'52 .'58L;who-wn:"t«acK;;a:!fl^^^i||| 
year tax-dannmg couise in tbie seoBiiitf^^l 
semester. Mr. Tharnbuig tangJK^atiSfi^a^ 
the Law School m;tl«494(]^:^^p^ 
ProfesstMr. Kelleri>eigili«d»1iB^^ 
ordinated'' the -Law' SdaiooPi'iiamn^^^^^^ 
ment-in -the;Sc«th;BendirL(^|iiila^^;i^ 
oSBces- the past two yesus; md^/pK^i^:^^^ 
seminais-in law-^md poyerty;,''has^t^«i^y^ 
additional duties;- he.:will :tia^lM^ieMMi^ 
courses. in: profe^k»ai;:resi»iisadi^i^ 
administrative law aiid;feimSy. 3]kiws^^S%%^^^ 
will supovise-the'Law Schoar^:ii^n^:^^l 
ment'program;'he-is: aIso:c64draiar-SS^I 
to the L^al Aid and Defender Asio> ~ , i­
dation. 
Professor Noonan spent die summer researching in Rcxne on his study of the procedure used in matrimonial cases in the Church courts. He ^poke on; the subject of caitracq>tioa in the history df Catholic moral theology in four states, Canada and Puerto Rico last ^rir^, to groups <rf id^ous, parish and ecumenical groups and to cdl^;e and university audiences. 
... Jii • tfeff Fitara 
Thirty-fmn' directors and officers of the Notre Dame Law Association met on the Campus, October 13 and 14, far the Association's fall meeting. 
Prendent Joaejdi A. Tracy ofNew/ ' Ywlc, prended at extended dtmiinnm Friday crfdiat weekend; the drectofs^ txfAoKd expansion of the Law L H brary, placement services availafale to studenbt^ schdarshq> pdicy and oAcr aspects of law-school administratiaii. 
A special committee <tf the Aaisdap tim met Vdtb Faculty and stodeitt. committees Saturday, October 14,^10 > lay prdinunary jdans for A c toHr^ Schod's centenoiai cddhntioii in die firing <rf 1969. -' 
Two hundred fifty thousand doOus '' is the curtdit year's goal for die Nata^~ 
JOSEPH ^A. -RACY '55 AssocMrtMMi praskiMiti 
This year's Law Association oflBcers and directors are: 
Immediate Past President: Mr. Philip J. Faccenda, Notre Dame President: Mr. Joseph A. Tracy, New York City President-elect: Mr. George B. Morris, Jr., Detroit Vice President: Mr. Martin P. Torborg, Fort Wayne Executive Secretary: Mrs. Jan AIlsop, Notre Dame 
Region I: Hugh F. Fitzgerald, New York City; Hon. J. Gilbert Prendergast, Balti­more; John M. Crimmins, Pittsburgh; E. Milton Farley III, Richmond; Dana C. Devoe, Bangor; Ronald P. Mealey, Wayne, N.J.; James C. Higgins, Beckley, W. Va.; Graham W. McGowan, Washington, DC; William A. Whiteside Jr., Philadelphia; George F. Meister, Miami; F. James Kane Jr., Buffalo 
Region II: Alphonse A. Sommer, Cleve­land; Hugh J. McGuire, Detroit; Louis Hollenback III, Louisville; Edward J. Gray, South Bend; Lawrence A. Kane Jr., Cinciimati; William H. Schroder, Atlanta; John I. Bradshaw Jr., Indianapolis 
Region III: George W. Vander Vennet, Davenport; James W. Wrape, Memphis; William E. Brown, Milwaukee; William 
B. Dreux, New Orleans; James L. Ferstel, Chicago; Paul J. Meyer, Springfield; Joseph P. Summers, St Paul; Norris Bishton, Chicago 
Region IV: Hon. Victor H. Fall, Helena; William P. Mahoney, Phoenix; David M. Thornton, Tulsa; Joseph C. Spalding, Denver; Frank M. Manzo, Santa Ana; Gerald J. McGinley, Ogallala, Neb.; Hon. John F. Kilkenny, Portland; George E. Fletcher, Houston; Richard P. Byrne, Los Angeles; Lawrence Weigand, Wichita; Daniel J. Sullivan, St. Louis. 
Decision in IMoot Court 
"Katz vs. United States," a case concerning the use of electronic eavesdropping to obtain evidence in a gambling prosecution, provided the framework for this year's Moot Court won by John F. Sandner from Chi­cago, a graduate of Southern Illinois. 
Second-place honors went to Rich­ard L. Manning, Niles, Mich., a 1963 graduate of Notre Dame. Two other finalists were John F. Pusey, Bellefon­taine, Ohio, also a '65 ND grad, and Andrew F. Tranovich, Reading, Pa., from LaSalle College. 

Three federal judges were on hand to hear arguments in the finak of the 18th annual competition: John W. Peck, US Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit; Frederick J. R. Heebe, US District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana; and James A. Walsh, US District Court for the Dis­trict of Arizona. 
Right from tiie Experts 
Two nationally prominent lawyers, the New York City police ctHnmission­er and a former GOP vice-presiden­tial candidate are among this year's guests to appear before Gray's Inn, file Notre Dame Law School's speak­ers' forum and discussion club. 
In September New York attorney Roy M. Cohn, who first gained fame at the age of 25 for his role in the successful prosecution of the Rosen­berg espionage case, recounted the various events and crises which have highlighted his turbulent carreer. Dwelling particularly on his service as chief counsel during 1953-54 for the Senate Investigating Committee chair­maned by the late Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, Cohn defended die record of McCarthy and his committee and maintained that the McCarthy in­vestigations were of great benefit to the country. 
Turning to the topic of today's law students, Cohn lamented the fact that so few young lawyers display imagina­tion or initiative and he maintained that top-grade trial lawyers are a van­ishing breed. 
In October Howard R. Leary, {lolice commissioner of New York City, spoke to members of Gray's Inn about the greater role which fiolice 
LEARY, NIZER and COHN Cast for Gray's Inn lecture series. 
JOHN SANDNER Winner in Court Hnals. 

must play "in seeking new approaches and in devising new solutions for im­proved law enforcement appropriate to the times." Leary made specific reference to the utilization which his own department has made of the Vera Institute of Justice in its efforts to meet the needs of today's society. 
The final speaker of the fall semes­ter was Louis Nizer, eminent trial lawyer and author, who discussed "The Art of die Jury Trial." Before a third capacity crowd of Gray's Inn members and guests, Nizer noted that the "most important single quality for a successful trial lawyer is thorough preparation, hard work and industry." 
The second semester's program will include appearances by Charles Evers of the Mississippi NAACP and Hon­orable William E. Miller, the 1964 Republican nominee for vice-presi­dent. —Peter King 
In the October Issue 
NOTRE DAME LAWYER 

Robert G. Nottnan, "A Decen­nial Study of the Uninsured Motorist Endorsement." 
George J. Alexander and Thomas S. Szasz, "Mental Illness as an Excuse for Civil Wrongs." 
Student notes on mental and dental X-rays, out-of-state pub­lishers under long-arm statutes and the finality of civil judgments, with respect to judicial self-correction under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. 
Student-written case comments on removability to federal courts in contract actions, judicial deter­minations of voluntariness of con­fessions, withdrawable savings ac­counts under the Securities Ex­change Act and choice-of-law ques­tions in federal tax lien actions. 
Book review (Leach, Property Law IndictedJ. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 

Up Scholarship Aid 
Two hundred fifty thousand dollars is the current year's goal for the Notre Dame Law Scholarship fund. The new goal is more than double the amount raised for law scholarships last year. 
"Notre Dame is a high-cost law school; the law students, for the most part, do not come from well-to-do families," Dean Joseph O'Meara said last year. "Obviously, if we are to get the extremely talented students who are so essential we must be able to provide financial assistance to those who need it." 
More than half the student body at the Law School receives some form of financial aid. Total scholarships of 
ENGAGEMENTS 

liriss ^Iai7 Kathlccs Ryan and GORDON J. DiRENZO 'SS. Miss Barbara Jean K!ce and LAWRENCE F. BIEBUYCK '58. Miss Judith Lynne Arcli and LAWRENCE KENDALL COX '62. Miss Patricia Ann Rcilz and STAN FECORA '62. Miss Carole Barsltis SMC 'M and FREDERIC W. WEBER '62. Miss Jacquclyn Ann Holcwinslu and RONALD MICHAEL BUDZINSKI '63. Miss Carrol Young and CONRAD &IASLOW­SKI '63. Miss April Lomsc Manford and EDWIN NEFF JR. '64. Miss Doralil Saucr and ANTHONY J. PUG­LIESE '65. Miss Patricia Marie O'Donnell and J. RAY­MOND FLYNN '66. Miss Mary C. Jamieson and LAWRENCE ED­WARD HOUDEK '66. Miss Mai^aret Ann Knapp and JAMES EARL CASE '67. Miss Anne £. Gillls and RICHARD £. Mc-CLOSKEY '67. 
MARRIAGES 

Mrs. Edward L. Rigley and BERNARD J. VOLL '17, Notre Dame, Aug. 19. Miss Josephine Leonard and LEO DANIEL KELLEY '21, Syracuse, N.Y., July 27. Miss Gail Halpin and JEROME R. PRASSAS 
•55, Madrid, Spain, Aug. 14. Miss Mary Van Etton and JOHN WEITHERS '55, Chicago, Sept. 18. Miss Elva Dughi and JAMES L. BYRNE '57, San Francisco, May 27, Miss Mary Kathcrine Gray and THOMAS JO­SEPH KANE '57, Springfield, Dl., Sept. 16. Miss Mary Louise Endres and THOMAS C. McMURTRY '57, Lancaster, Calif., Sept. 16. Miss Barbara Frances Chrapck and THOMAS FRANCIS BURZYNSKI '58, South Bend. Aug. 12. 
Mis Sandra Ann Andreas and WILLIAM GER­ARD McMURTRIE '60, Washington, D.C., July 8. 
Miss Patricia Ann Reie and STANLEY £. PECORA JR. '61, South Bend, Nov. 11. 
Miss Marie Mclinda Rose and BERNARD CON­NORS O'NEILL JR. '61, Charlotte, N.C., Aug. 12. 
Miss Jacqueline Ann Holewinski and RONALD MICHAEL BUDZINSKI '63, South Bend, Nov. 11. 
Miss Linda Suzanne Smith and PAUL MI­CHAEL LEHNER '63, Dublin, Ga., Aug. 5. Miss Charlotte Anne Cohon and CHARLES MURPHY '63, Taunton, Mass., June 3. 
Miss Joanne Mary Duff and ALBERT JOSEPH FALKO '63, ComwaU-fln-Hudson, N.Y., Aug. 26. Miss Sheila Ann Fitzgerald and PHIUP RILEY 
•63, Oak Park, 111., Aug. 19. Miss Evangeline Eybsen and RICHARD SO­BONYA '63, Cleveland, May 27. 
Miss Susan Elizabeth Mahoney and DIFAK K. BAGCHI '64, NUes, Mich., Sept. 2. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19<7 DECEMBER 
all kinds for the current academic year stand at 135, in a student body <^ 258. 
Funds for all scholarships are raised and spent on a year-to-year basis. They are solicited mainly throu^ the efforts of the Law School's own alumni organization, the Notre Dame Law Association. There is no endow­ment for law scholarships. 
The Association enrolled 917 mem­bers in the scholarship program last year. This was an increase of 127 over the 1965-66 enrollment and an increase of 542 over the enrollment for 1964-65. 
The scholarship program's elite corps, the "500" Club (members who annually contribute $100 or more to 
Miss April Louise Manford and EDWIN U . NEFF JR. '64, Brooklyn Heights, NY. Sept. 16. Miss Kathleen M. Connon and JIM GOETZ 
'65, Clc%'eland Heights, Nov. 25. 
Miss PATRICIA ANNE McGlHRE '67 and ROBERT EUGENE KASTEN '65, Notre Dame, Aug. 19. 
Miss MARY CLARE ALBY '67 and ROBERT THOMAS MARKEL '65, South Bend, Aug. 5. 
Miss Christine Ann Baldwin and ROBERT EUGENE McDONOUGH 31IA'65, Notre Dame, Aug. 19. 
Miss Mary Louise Hellmuth and THOMAS P. LOFTIS '66, Springfield, Ohio, Aug. 19. 
Miss Sheila Clare Brennan and WILLIAM HENRY McGANN '66, Notre Dame, July 15. Miss Judith Anne Robakowsk! and FREDERICK RUSSELL NELSON '66, South Bend, July 22. Kliss Dcbra Dec Andrews and DENNIS KEITH 
HUBBARD '67, South Bend, Sept. 2. 
Miss Sluron Louise Montgomery and DAVlU ALLEN HUZAREWICZ '67, Notre Dame, Aug. 12. 
Aliss ELIZABETH ANN JARVIS '67 and Thomas Wayne Renaldi, Elkhart, Aug. 19. Miss Chcrilynn Joyce Blank and GARY PETER KUCKEL '67, Niles, Mich., Sept. 2. Miss Carol Sue Botvser and Lt. DONALD A. LIEPOLD '67, South Bend, June 24. Miss Carol Snadecki and ROBERT AMBROSE­MCDONNELL JR. '67, south Bend, Aug. 12. Kliss Tamara Ann Howard and STEPHEN J. McNALLY '67, Cascade, loiva, Sept. 2. Miss Karen Anne Remmo and LLOYD MAUR­ICE PERNELA '67, South Bend, Sept. 16. Miss CHARLOTTE HELEN TIRMAN '67 and Philip Arthur Roper, South Bend, July 29. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mis. JOHN A. SCOTT '38, a son, John A. Jr., July 20. Mr. and Mrs. LEE MARA '49, twin daughters, Kathleen and CoUcen, Feb. 15. 
Mr. and Mis. GENE SCHAFFER '49, a daugh­ter, Mary Kathleen, Sept. 14, Stamford, Conn. Air. and Mrs. ED HUDAK '50, a son, Kevin, 
June 13. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM SEIDLER '52, a daughter, Jennifer Jane, Aug. 24. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. DEBREY '5S, a son. Marc Micliael, August 20. Mr. and Mrs. JEROME SWEENEY '56, a son, Francis Gray, Oct. 7, Salem, Mass. 
Mr. and Mrs. DENNIS F. TROESTER '57, a daughter, Maureen, Oct. 27, South Bend, bd . Mr. and Mrs. JAMES WALSH '57, a daughter, 
Susannc, June 20. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS MIRANDA '59, a daughter, Sept. 24. Mr. and Mrs. W. JAMES EASTERLY '60, a son, Patrick Paul, Aug. 29. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE MICHAEL FAHEY '61, a daughter, Jeannine Marie, August 1. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. QUINN IB '61. a daughter, Sarah Judith, June 13. Mr. and Mrs. CARL M. WALSH •SI, a son, Kevin Michael, Aug. 31. Mr. and Mis. ROBERT W. dHAK '62, a ton, Robert Alan. 
law schdaiships) increased to 251 last year, bam 220 in 1965-fi6 and 183 in 1964-65. 
Ciish CIIIK Mlp Judge John R. CcHyn '51 '53L, a member <d the Illinois Appellate Court and a citizen of Rock Island, HI., died on October 5 when bis-private airplane crashed near.GIasIpi, Saskatchewan, Canada. Judge Coryn was an active Notre D^ e man, a directcx' of the Law Assodaticm and a respected, pcranisng :q)pellate judge. A memonal Mass was celebrated tor him on the Campus October 14. Members oi the I^w Association, here fcx- their £all week­end meetii^ attended. 
Ifr. and Mn. PATRICK F. limPHKEE VZ. a dangfater, TiBmy Anae, Aug. 23. 
Mr. and Ibi . THOMAS E. DALUM '63, a danghter. Amy Marie, Oct. 2S. Mihmikce, Wo. Mr. and Mcs. JOHN DABROWSKI 'O. a 
daughter, Deborah Lynn, May 11. Mr. and Mis. DONALD N. dLLESPIE '63. a son, Donald Joseph, Ang. I6._ Mr. and Mis. KEVIN O'NEILL '63, a soi^ Kevin ^^irhafl^ June 10. Mr. and Mis. ROBERT A. DRAJEM '6^ a son, Mark Robert, March 17. Mr. and Mis. BERNARD KATZ '6^ a aon, Allan Seth, Dec '66. Mr. and Mis. ROBERT E. MIER JR. '64. a son, Biian Matthew, Sept. 16. Mr. and Mis. MICHAEL RYAN '64, a da< ^ ter, Maiy Janet, August. ­Mr. and Mis. JOSEPH SANDZA '64, a dai ^ ter, Diane Louise, Aug. 27. Mr. and Mis. MICHAEL STCPANEK "U. a son, Patrick Michad, March 30. Mr. and Mis. RICHARD T. STKITTEK tt. a . daughter, Katherine Rose, Sept. 3, 1966. Mr. and Mis. MICHAEL SULLIVAN '6«. a daughter, Maura Kathleen, August. ' Bir. and Mis. GERALD VAIRO '64, a «a . Stephen Dominic, September. Mr. and Mis. RICHARD ARRINGION '63, a daughter, Courtney, July. Mr. and Mis. BILL FERRENCE '63, a sia, William G. HI, December. Mr. and Mis. KEN GEOLY '65. a dai^ter. l£chad Ann, July. Mr. and Mis. JOHN BUARTE '65, a ion, John Matthew. June. Mr. and Mn. LEE McCARTBY '65, a dan^tcr. Bridget Maiy, ApriL Mr. and Mis. RAY McLAIN '65, a ^nghter, Meeghan Anne, July. Mr. and Mis. PAT ROCCO '65, a duster, Lisa, April. Mr. and Mn. FRANK GREGORY '66, a dan ^ ter, Lauren Sue, Sept. 21. Mr. and Mis. STEmEN SEALL '66, a too, . John Paul, Jcae 24. 
ADOPTIONS 

lb. and itta. DEAN F. DAVIS '36, a aeo. Douglas Dean, November. 
SYMPATHY 

LOUIS KEIFEK '16 on the death of i s wil^ Sept. 27. 
J. RALPH CORYN '22 on the deadi of I n son, JOHN JR. '51. Oct. 5. DANIEL F. CASHOti '30 on tke deadb of Ui brother, JACK CANNON'30, Nor. 12. 
MARGARET C MAURICE '32 <a the deaA «f ' her mother. Nor. 4. 
W. E. ACKERMAN '33 oa the death of U i wife, Aug. 21. CHARLES KRETSCHMER JR. "33 o> A e death of Us dangihter, Onistiae, OiS. 29. JACK F. WHITAKER 'Se on the death of hii wife, Sept. 19. 
RICHARD E. FUXM> '37 oa the dca& a( Us ' mother, Aug. 29. 
55 
Rev. ALBIN L. HOSINSKI CSC '39 on the death of his mother, July 30. ROBERT J. KOCH '41 on the death of his son, Nov. 11. RICHARD G. HECKMAN '42 on the death of his mother, July 22. PHILLIP J. LUCIER '42 on the death of his mother, Oct. 27. GEORGE R. WENDT '44 on the death of his father in June. S.AMUEL A. WIXG JR. '44 on the death of his mother in August. D.AVID R. CONDON '45 on tlic death of his mother, Aug. 18. JOHN L. BE.\U (BEAURIVAGE) '47 on the death of his wife, Sept. 29. GEORGE S. NICHOLS JR. '49 on the death of his father in May. CELESTINO R. SIERRA JR. '49 on the death of his mother, Oct. 15. JOHN J. BECKH.AM '50 on the death of his father, WILLIAM L. BECKHAM '15. LOUIS KEIFER JR. '50 on the death of his mother, Sept. 27. HAROLD F, SCHRECK JR. '51 on the death of his father, August, 1S66. JAMES S. ASI^LAKIS '52 on the death of his father. May 4. HAROLD J. W. SWEET '53 on the death of his wife, Sept. 25. JAMES A. REY.N'IERS JR. '54 and LEON, on the death ol their fatlier, Nov. 3. PAUL FULLMER '55 on the death of his lather, Aug. 7. FRED S. GALIONE '55 on the death of his father in October. HAROLD W. MEYER JR. '56 on the death of his father in Fcbruarj'. JOHN T. D.ARCY '57 on the death of his lather, June 28. THOMAS A. BRUDER '59 on the death of his lather, Sept. 19. PETER JANDRISEVITS JR. '59 on the death of his father, Nov. 1. JAMES H. MOR.AN '60 on the death of his father, Feb. 15. MICH.AEL A. BRUDER '61 on the death of his father, Sept. 19. NEAL W. G.ALIONE '61 on the death of his father in October. JAMES A. O'DAY '61 on the death of his father, June 24. JACK H. WHITAKER '61 on the death of his mother, Sept. 19. THOMAS H. FOX '62 on the death of his father in May. JOHN W. WOLF JR. '62 on the death of his iatlier, Sept. 2. J.\MES J. BRUDER '63 on the death of his lather, Sept. 19. D.WID F. CZULEWICZ '63, on the death of his father, March 27, 1966. MICH.AEL F. LYNCH '63 on the death of his father, Oct. 28. RUSSELL JANDRISEVITS '64 on the death of his father, Nov. 1. FRANK L. FOX '67 on the death of his father in &fay. THOXL\S W. STRiVCHAN JR. '67 on the death of his father. 
DEATHS 
MICHAEL J. CONNOR '02, Aug. 20. EDWARD W. COSTELLO '10. Michigan City, Ind., Sept. 2. Sumvors include his widow, Alabd, 513 Lafayette St., Michigan City. FRED L. STEERS *II, Chicago, Nov. 7. A la-wycr who (ought Chicago union wars in the *40s, he went dou*n in Fighting Irish lore as one of the men wlio convinced a discouraged Knutc Rockne to stay in school as an undergraduate. He also led the group which urged the appointment of Rockne ais coach at ND. One of earliest non-Catholics who were Io>*aI and active Alumni, he was former prcs. of the ND Club of Chicago and \\:as on the Alumni Board of Directors from 1933-37. A mem­ber of the track team as an ND student, he main­tained a lifetime interest in amateur athletics and %ras wce-pres. of the AAU from 1923-25. He was also a member of the American 01>-mpic Commit­tee and was also an Asst. US Dist. Attorney. He is survived by his widow, Mayc, 1910 W. 107th St., Chicago 60643, a daughter and a son. 
WILLIAM J. PARISH '12, Momencc, DL, in No\'embcr. Sur\-ivors include his widow, Ava, 211 N. Hill St., Alomence, a son and daughter. 
ROBERT D. SCHINDLER '13, Toledo, Feb. 9. He b survived by his widow, Helen, 2673 Gunckel Blvd., Toledo 43606. 
WILLIAM L. BECKHAM '15, Toledo, Aug. 4. 
Survivors include his son, JOHN J. BECKHAM 
'50, 2909 Kenwood Blvd., Toledo. 
ANTHONY C. FASENMYER '18, Phurie Vil­
lage, Kan. 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS P. MONIGHAN '18, 
Aug. 5. Survivors include a sister, EtUth, Startite 
Inn &(otel, Yankton, S.Dak. 57078. 
NORBERT G. MONNING '18, Canabene. Fla. 
JOHN L. REUSS '18, Oct. 6, Ft. Wayne. He 
is survived by his widow, 909 Orlando Dr., Ft. 
Waj-ne. 
WILLIAM S. FOGARTY '23 died in 1966. He 
is survived by his widow, Alary, Comville, Ariz. 
86325. 
WILLIAM D . BAILEY SR. '24, Xanana, CaKT., 
July 16. 
MARK E. NOLAN '24L, Duluth, Minn., Aug. 
18. He was struck by a car as fae crossed a street. A district judge since 1936, he was named chief judge four years ago. He served four terms in the Alinncsota House until his appointment to the bench. He is survived by his mdow, Ann, 423 Court House, 55802, three daughters and a son. 
JOSEPH E. FITZPATRICK '25, Coral GaMes, Fla., Aug. 15. Mr. Fitzpatrick was retired vice-pres. and senior trust officer of the Florida Na­tional Bank & Trust Co. of Miami. Survivors include his widow, Ruth, 903 Faradiso Ave., Coral Gables 33146. 
ARMANDO J. PORTA '25, South Bend, Oct. 
12. After 35 years with the Studebaker Corp., he was \ice-prcs. of Associates Investment Co. at the time of his death. ND *'Man of the Year" in 1960 he was a member of ND's Prcadent's Council and many civic and church organizations. Surviv­ors include his son, daughter and widow, Mikhred, 1626 Inwood Rd. £., South Bend 46614. 
EDMUND F. BURKE '26, Sparta, N.J., Nov. 
11. Survivors include the widow, Muy, 9 Indian Terrace, a son and daughter. 
EDMUND J. BANKS '27, East Aurora, NY, 
July 8. Survivors include bis widow, 371 S. Fuk 
Place, East Aurora 14052. 
Sr. M. JOSEPHINE BASKERVILLE OSB '27. 
JOHN P. MONTBRUN '27. Sarasota, Fla., 
Oct. 23. 
JOHN R. "SKIPPER" SCANLON '27, Gaflup, 
NM, Oct. 10. An attorney for about 40 years, 
he was partner in the firm of Scanlon and Son. 
Survivors include a daughter and a son John Jr., 
316 Mesa S.E., Albuquerque, with whom he 
w ^ living. 
Rev. LEO FRIERSON OSB '28, Richmond, Va. JOHN D. "SNUBBER" MURPHY '28, Chi­cago, Oct. 24. Rev. ROBERT BRENNAN OSB '29, Belmont^ NC. WILLIAM H. BURNS '29, Bryn Mawr, Ru, May 20. GEORGE T. RATEGAN '29, Oucago, July 27. Survivors include his sister, Bemice Ratcgan, 2410 
E. 77th St., Chicago. 
JOHN J. "JACK" CANNON '30, Columbus, Ohio, Nov. 12. An AII-American guard under Knute Rockne, he was elected to the National Football Hall of Fame in 1965. Known for dis­regarding his coach's urging to wear headgear, he was once dubbed "the hatless horseman." He was a coach at Auburn and of the old Columbus Bulb pro team and was Columbus' recreation director in 1940-42 before going into the florist business. Survivors include three sisters and two brothers. 
Sr. MARY PLACIDA CASTROP OSB '30. 
T. LAWRENCE CRONIN '30, Bloomfield, NJ, Nov. 8. Survivors include two daughters. 
JOHN S. FLINN '30, SeatUe, Wash., Sept. 11. For the past 19 years he was ou'ner of the Flinn Chemical Laboratory. He was an Army Captsun in World War IL He is survived by his %vife, Geraldine, 308 E. Republican St., Scatde. 
HARLEY R. TRUITT '30, WatscAa, III., Aug. 
4. The owner and operator of Truitt Drug Co., he is survived by his widow, RJL 1, Watsda 60970. 
JOHN F. LAUX '31, Hint, Mich.. Aug. 25. An employee of Buick Motor Division for 26 years, he is survived by his widow, Waneta, 620 W. Parkway, Flint, 48505, three sons and two daughters. 
JOHN H. CAHILL '33, Opa-Locks, Fla., S ^ tcmbcr. Survivors include his widow, Patrida, 17141 N.W. 42nd Ave. 33054. 
WILLIAM M. GARRETT '33, Houston, July 
20. Survivors include his widow, 2245 Maronealy Houston 77025. 
JOHN G. JAEGER '33, 2*rYC, Aug. 26. Sar­vivors include his widow, 6200 Riverdale Ave.j Bronx, NY 10471. 
JOSEPH F. NOVAK '34, Chicago, June 14. 

JOHN P. SAGARTZ '35, Chicago, June 6. 
Sumvors include a son, JOHN W. '62, and his 
widow, Ann, 5937 N. Medina Ave., Chicago 60646. 
NICHOLAS J. CONNOR JR. '36, Indianapolis, 
in August. 
Rev. GEORGE T. MEAGHER CSC '36, Port­
land, Ore,, Aug. 22. Father Meagher had been a 
teacher at the U. of Portland since 1964. 
RALPH E. HRUSKA '37, N. Miami Beach, 
Fla., Oct. 11. 
MILTON J. EISERT '39, Groton, Conn., May 
26. He b survived by his widow, 56 Eastwood Rd., Groton. Dr. PHILIP RICHARD SHERIDAN '39, Port 
Henry, NY, Jan. 6, 1966. JAlklES G. PHILLIPOFF '44, South Bend, Oct. 
13. He was the owner of the F^ty Shoppcs. Sur­vivors include two sons and his widow, Dorothy, 1523 E. Hoover Ave. 46615. 
THOMAS M. KERRIGAN '48, Michigan City, Oct. 28. He was a former FBI agent who once posed as a convict at Sing Sing to try to discover who blinded hbor columnist Victor Riesel. After leaving the FBI in 1958, he became a restaurateur. Survivors include lus widow, Rosetta, Portage, Ind., three sons and two daughters. 
JOHN A. McGRATH '48, Ashton, Md., Oct. 
10. Mr. McGrath was executive vice-pres. of Fuels Research Council Inc., and was a partner in the law firm of Gosnell, Durkin & McGrath. Past president of the N D Club of Washington, he was their "Man of the Year" in 1964. He is survived by his widow, Jane, 18820 New Hampshire Ave., ^hlon 20702, and three sons. 
IAN L. LANDRY '49, New Orleans. 
JOHN J. HYLAND '50L, Endicott. NY, Oct. 8. 
Survivors include his widow, 612 W. Main St., 
Endicott, 13760, four daughters and one son. 
JOHN RALPH CORYN '51, '53, Rock Island, 
BL, Oct. 6. An Illinois Appellate Court judge, he 
was killed along with four others in an airplane 
crash about 50 miles north of North Battlcford, 
Saskatchewan during a heavy snowstorm. Survivors 
include his father J. RALPH '22, 2545 13th St., 
Moline, lU. 
Sr. M. VIRGINIA MARSH RSM '59, Bay City, 
Mich., Oct. 14, 1966. 
EDWIN J. HERMANNS '63, Stroudsburg, Pa., 
March 30. He was killed by an avalanche while 
hiking in Yosemite National Park with anotlier 
graduate student from Stanford U. 
JAMES E. PAVLICEK JR. '65, Nov. 3, Viet­
nam. An Army helicopter pilot, he died from 
injuries received in the crash of his helicopter. He 
is siuvivcd by his parents, a brother and two 
ustcrs. 
Lt. WILLIAM A. WILK '66, Vietnam, July 
29. Lt. Wilk was killed in action near Quang Nam, Vietnam, while on a patrol mission. He is survived by his widow, 1011 S. Belgrade Rd., Silver Springs, Md. 20902. 
FACULTY ond STAF DEATHS 
Rev. THOMAS P. IRVING CSC '04, Nov. 5, ND . He was the second ranking officer of the 
Holy Cross Fathers from 1928 
to 1938 and served as ND's vice-
pres. from 1922 to 1925. Father 
Irving spent virtually his entire 
priestly life at Notre Dame— 
1909-1912 as a faculty member, 
1919-20 as director of studies, 
1922-1925 as vice-pres. and from 
1943 until his death as a teacher 

and counselor. He was superior of Holy Cross Seminary on the Campus from 1912-19 and was Moreau Seminary rector during 1921-22 and from 1925 to 1931. Survivors include a brother and three sisters. 
Rt. Rev. M^ . PHILIP HUGHES, South Bend. Oct. 6. An internationally known authority on Catholic Church history and a retired history prof, at ND, he was known by his students as an in­structor whose teaching was tempered with wit and understanding. H b field of specialization in history was the Reformation and Counter-Reforma­tion in England. Msgr. Hughes w*as the author of several church history volumes, the most recent in 1965. 
FRANK W. KELLY '24, South Bend, Sept. 22. A professor at ND for 39 years, he is survived by two asters. 
JAMES ARTHUR REYNIERS '30, founder and first director of Lobund Institute at ND, died of cancer Nov. 3 in Tampa, Fla. Prof. Reyniers developed the germfree animal. He also initiated studies in the fields of radiation ackncss, anti­biotics, nutrition and protein metabolism. Survivors include his widow, three sons and two daughters. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

INAUGURAL DINNER IN PHILADELPHIA Black tie and capacity crowd. 
SUMMA SPREADS TO CLUB CITIES 
Clubs 

N
OTRE DAME Alumni Clubs across 
the country are hosting SUMMA 

campaign kickofF dinners and pro­
grams. With ten cities tucked safely 
into the banquet belt in October, two 
teams of University and Alumni 
officials are set to take off again in 
January. 
Clubs in California, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Wisconsin, Illinois, Colorado and Washington, DC have arranged meeting places for the January flights of two teams of Uni­versity and Alumni officials. 
Cities to be covered include Seattle and Toledo, Jan. 15; San Francisco and Akron-Canton, Jan. 16; Los Angeles and Youngstown, Jan. 17; Columbus, Jan. 18; Pittsburgh and Peoria, Jan. 22; Cincinnati and Denver, Jan. 23; Fort Wayne, Jan. 24; and Milwaukee and Washington, DC, Jan. 25. 
The two panels of SUMMA speak­ers are headed by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president. On Father Hesburgh's panel are James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and development; Dr. Oliver C. Car­michael Jr., national SUMMA chair­man; Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice-president for research and sponsored programs; and Christopher Miurphy, Dr. Thomas P. Carney, honorary pres­ident of the Alimmi Association; Dr. George Shuster, assistant to the Uni­versity preddent; Dr. Thomas Stewart, associate vice-president for academic affairs; and Frank G. Kelly, assistant to the vice-president for public rela­tions. 
Survey Analyzes Clubs 
This is Ihe second of a three-port series dealing with the Notre Dome Alumni Survey token lost spring. In this piece the ALUMNUS reports re­action to the present Alumni Oub structure and activities. 
Six out of ten readers of this page haven't been to a Notre I^me Club meeting in the last year. And nine out of ten Club officers are wondering where they are. (The tenth guy is the clean-up chairman who'd just as soon they stay home.) 
The 1%7 Alumni Study results show 60 percent of the Alumni haven't attended a Club meeting in the last year though 28 percent have. Of those who retiumed the question­naire, three percent had no Club in their area and 10 percent did not answer the question. 
The survey asked Alumni to in­dicate the program areas v^ch should be implemented or improved by the Clubs and 19 percent diecked community service and continuing ed­ucation. "Social activities" was 
student body president. checked by 17 percent, "family func­Another student will accompany tions" interested 13 percent, "religious Father Joyce's panel which includes activities" was indicated by 10 percent 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 
and "athletic" \vas tlie choice of only six percent. 
Three nuns commented on the ap­pai-ent "discrimination" against their membership in Clubs. One wrote, "I don't tliink nuns are 'eligible'; I wish they were." Another said, "The Alumni should also have a Club for summer graduates—^it would be fine to know something about your Class after gi-aduation!" 
Comments on programs the Clubs should add or improve included these: "Getting sons of Alumni in the Uni­versity even if they don't have a 99 percent average from high school"; and "Concern for problems of private higher education in general and of ND in particular." 
An Ohio man wrote, "We have the unfortunate situation of a Club that does not represent the Alumni." And a Virginian said he thought no pro­grams should be added because "there are too many meetings now—mostly non-significant." 

A New Yorker felt none of the sug­gested programs for Clubs were ap­plicable and stated he felt "an ND Club ought to promote and support home town University programs and projects over the entire spectrum." This same man cheered the question­naire data gatherers with his com­ments regarding his job. He wrote he was self-employed in insurance and investments and the name of the institution which employed him was "Poverty & Perspiration," the nature of which was "Principally, ulcers." 
An Ohio lawj-er MTOte that ND Clubs should help obtain private or government financial aid to equalize ta.xation of private schools and to enable them to function competitively. He noted Clubs "sometimes seem smug about being involved in com­munity' and governmental efforts." 
A Pennsylvanian said he attends the Club meetings two or three times a year and asks, "How about speakers other than coaches?" He added, "All activities are social, a fatal failing in my opinion." He feels ND Clubs should have "a broader, more mature reason for being than dances or social activit)'." 
A graduate living in Oregon thought the Clubs should work on "turning ND back into the tj'pe of institution it used to be." 

So much for Alumni reaction to the present structure and activities of the Clubs. In the third and conclud­ing part of the Alumni Sur\'ey (Jan.­Feb. ALUMNUS, the magazine will report Alumni attitude toward the re­organization of the governance of Notre Dame and to the University's future growth and development. 
DR. O. C. CARMICHAEL JR., REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC and HOWARD V. PHALIN In Chicago's Conrad Hilton SUMMA leaders meet the press. 
REV. EDMUND JOYCE CSC O. C. CARMICHAEL JR., MRS. THOMAS Louisviliians heard the McCLOSKEY, THOMAS McCLOSKEY vice-president. National chairman meets Philadelphia chairman. 
PAUL RAFFERTY, REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC, W. UNCASTER SMITH, EDMOND HAGGAR, PHILIP R. NORTH Dallas-Fort Worth committeemen chat with President. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
AKRON = 
New officers clioscn for tlic coming year arc JIM 
CEXSKY '56, prcs.; BOB STACK '41, Vicc-Prcs.; 
ED. BUTLER JR *60. trcas.; and JIM KEEGAN 
*59, sec During the coining year wc will con­
centrate on a more definite program, interviewing 
prospective students, scholarship program, pos­
sible joint activities with the Canton and Cleve­
land Clubs, support of a charitable organization 
and establishment of honorary memberships. Inter­
est in ND around Akron by nonalumn! is very 
high and wc Iiopc to parlay this into a stronger 
organization. 
A free '*Spring Lawn Party" was held at TOM 
MEURER's '66 in Silver Lake on June 10. It was 
well attended by a "Hard Core" and wc hope it 
was the start of a good year. TIic annual Fresh­
man Welcome Dinner was at lacomini's Restau­
rant Sept. II. Wc have 13 freshmen from the area 
on campus, including top football candidates 
Bob Ncidert and Scott llcmpel. Rev. Joseph 
Barry CSC spoke and the "1966 Football High­
lights" was shown. A Monday Quarterback 
Luncheon at Tangier Restaurant was started on 
Sept. 25 and will continue throughout the season. 
Our annual Dinner-Dance has been su*itched 
from mid-January to St. Patrick's Day week­
end in 1968. This is for the benefit of our schol­
arship fund. We hope this change will attract 
a larger number of Alumni and friends. 
—JIM KEEGAN *59, Secretary 
AURORA, ILL. = 
The annual Club golf outtng was held July 27 at the Aurora Country Club. A large turnout en­joyed the fabulous entertainment put on by MC ZIGMONT CZAROBSKI. Guest speakers includ­ed Coaches TOM PAGNA and JERRY WAMP­FLER who put on their usual fine program. The Gil Bryan trophy was won by guest VINCE KONEN and as custom was awtirded by Czarob­ski and GEORGE CONNOR. 
—DICK REEDY '44 
BOSTON 
Many fall and winter activities arc scheduled by the Club under its new officers DICK MUR­PHY '58, prcs.; ART MURPHY '60, vicc-pres.; FRANK McCORMACK '63, sec; and TOM WELCH '57, trcas. 
The third annual Golf Outing at the Hatherly Country Club in Scituatc was well attended. LOU DiGIOVANNI '49, chairman and second-place winner, presented the winner's trophy to Ray Fitzgerald, an outstanding Boston sportswriter. 

Thirty new freshmen and their dads were hosted at a ScndofT Dinner in early September at the Officers Club in Boston under the capable chairmanship of NEIL FOWLER '47. Father JO­SEPH O'NEIL '46, assoc. dir. of admissions, furnished the young men with sound and sage advice. 
The SUMMA Banquet was held on Oct. 11 at the Hotel Somerset and proved to be \"ery success­ful with Father HESBURGH as the principal speaker. BOB MARR *58 did a splendid job as chairman. 
On Nov. 3 the Club enjoyed its third annual evening at Suffolk Downs. Chairman BILL PE­TRUSIAK *58 awarded a Notre Dame blanket to 
the winning colt. The Club chartered a jet and 
made all the arrangements for a trip to Miami for 
Notre Dame's last game of the year. ART MUR­
PHY '60 and JACK LAMERE '53 were the men 
in charge. 
A Club Directory has been printed and distrib­uted. Tliis project was originated and directed by JOHN McCULLOUGH '63. GEORGE CRONIN '60 is one of the finalists in the race for a scat on the Boston City Council. Congrats arc in order to PAUL HELLMUTH '40 for being elected to the Board of Trustees of the University. 
—RICHARD MURPHY '58. President 
BUFFALO 
Club members and their wives attended a folk 
Mass Oct. 4 at the Newman Club Chapel of the 
State Teachers College. The celebrant was Father 
JOHN WEIMER. A tour of the building and re­
freshments followed. The Club also sponsored an 
excursion to the ND-Pitt game Nov. 11. Plans 
are under way for a Christmas Dance De c 29 at 
the Cordon Bleu. 
—JIM SEYMOUR '35, Secretary 
^^^ ^ BURLINGTON ' 
On Oct. 8 the Club held its annual boat trip on the Mississippi River. Because of the cold weather a number of the old faithful were missing, how­ever, those who attended enjoyed the boat trip, the conversation and the delicious meal in Oquaw­ka. Hosts for the afternoon were Marianna and Club Pres. VERN BRINCK '48. Also along were Dorothy and JACK DAILEY '27, H.-\ROLD RILEY '27, Mary Kay and GENE RILEY '52 and Father ARTHUR PERRY *52. Meeting the group for supper at Oquawka were Mary and ROLAND MARTEL '43. 
—REV. ARTHUR PERRY '52, Secretary 
CANTON, OHIO 
Tlte Club held its third annual Shillelagh Swat Golf Stag at the Elms Country Club. There were 63 people present and our guests included Coaches TOM PAGNA and JERRY W-A.MPFLER who both swing a mean golf stick. JOHN ASIAN and JOHN SAXER were co-chairmen for the event. Club Pres. CHUCK KOEHLER handled the pro­gram with finesse. JIM WEBER, our former prcs., is taking up golf and won the booby prize. John Sa\er and EMIL OLF were trophy winners. The rest of the program consisted of a buffet din­ner and a showing of the "1966 Football High­lights." 
—EDWARD MACHUGA. Secretary 
CHICAGO 
The opening of the school year was heralded by the Club's annual reception for the incoming Freshmen and their parents. Chairman TOM HAYES '55 reported over 250 attended this event which was held at the Lake Shore Athletic Club. JIM GIBBONS '53, representing the University, was the principal speaker and as usual did an outstanding job. 
Membership Chairman FRED HOLZL '58 in­forms us that currently paid memberships in the Club have risen to 1134. This represents a nine percent increase over 1966. Club Prcs, TONY GIROLAMI '43, PAUL FULLMER '55, BILL 

REYNOLDS '54 and CHUCK FALKENBERG 
'52 were recently appointed to the Club's Scholar­
ship Fund Board of Dir. 
Chairman MARIO TONELU '39 wHl hold the 
Rockne Dinner on Dec. 4 at the Sherman House. 
Another outstanding program is being planned and 
will feature a well-known sports personality as 
guest speaker. Make plans to attend. 
—PATRICK J. MONTROY '53. Secretary 

^^^^ CINCINNATI ^^^^ 
At the annual Golf Outing GEORGE LAUGHLIN 
was' awarded the low net trophy by Chairman 
DREW B.\RTON '60. BOB WRIGHT '54 was 
Chairman of the annual Freshman Sendoff Picnic 
held Sept. 5 at Mt. Airy Forest. Highlight of the 
event was the traditional Alumni-Student Softball 
Game at which the Alumns upheld their honor 
by a 20-16 score. 
The first fall membership meeting took place Oct. 24 at the Cincinnati Club. The highlight of the affair occurred when RALPH B. KOHNEN JR and JACK GILLIGAN '43, candidates for City Council, discussed local politics. 
Plans have been made for the 1967 Communion 
Breakfast which will be Dec. 10 at Our Lady of 
Cindnnati Col. MIKE MORRISSEY '61 has been 
chosen chairman of the event. JOHN COTTING­
HAM and BOB McCAFFERTY, co-chairmen of 
the Christmas Scholarship Dance, will be In the 
Lookout House Dec. 2S, Two bands will provide 
continuous music and the recipient of the annual 
Dome Award will be announced. 
—LARRY KYTE '60. Secretary 
CLEVELAND 

ROBERT E. DOWD '41 general dty chairman wishes to thank the Alumni, parents and their families who attended the SUMMA dinner Oct. 16 at the Cleveland-Sheraton Hotel. JOHN P. COYNE '54, JOHN P. McFADDEN '59, THOM­AS M. RAIA '55, RICHARD H. XHLLER '54, THOMAS A. CORRIGAN '57 and PATRICK J. CANNON '55 who formed the committee in charge of the dinner are to be espcciaUy com­mended for the fine job they did in generating the large turnout of over 400 guests. The Cleve­land Alumni have currently raised 407 thousand 
dollars. 
Co-Chairmen Thomas A. Corrigan '57 and Patrick J. Cannon '55 headed up the schol­arship raffle which was held on Oct. 25. A sub­stantial sum of money was raised for the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund and Prcs. RICHARD VAN AUKEN '57 wishes to thank the co-chair­men for their excellent work on this affair. 
The husband and vntc retreat held during the weekend of the Michigan State-Nbtre Dame foot­ball game was a singular treat this year being that the members and their wives who enjoyed the weekend were also able to see the football game following the retreat. GEORGE KERVER '22 again was In charge of this year's retreat. 
Ch^rtnan RILEY MILLER '59 announces that the Christmas Dance will be De c 9 and will be a semi-formal followed by a champagne break­fast. ROBERT J. LALLY '50 and JAMES F. RODGER5 '49 have announced that the Rockne Award Banquet is to be held early in January at the Sheraton-Cleveland Hotel. 
—JOHN P. COYNE '5t. Secretary 

EV.  THODORE  M. HESBURGH  CSC,  ROBERT  TOM HUBBARD, DR. ROBERT WARNER, ROBERT McGOLDRICK, REV.  
DOWD,  DICK VAN  AUKEN  EDMUND P. JOYCE CSC, FRANK W. LANE, DONALD FOSKETT,  
'.leveland  committeemen  check  the  schedule  JAMES FLAHERTY JR.  
with the president.  An enthusiastic Hartford committee poses.  
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER  59  

REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC, HOTEL ATTENDANT, LT. GOV. RAYMOND BRODERICK and MRS. BRODERICK OfBcial welcome to Philadelphia by ND alumnus 
^^^^= COLOMBIA 
It is a pleasure for our Club to inform you that our President Ramon de la Torre '57 was ap­pointed as personnel v.p. for Baxaria, the largest cntcrpnse in the countr\'. We are planning a Club dinner to celebrate Ramon's appointment. Our Club u-as one year old Oct. 27 and we cele­brated our anniversary' simultaneously with Ramon's congratulatory dinner. 
—ERNESTO GUHL, Secretary 
• • COLUMBUS. OHIO ^^ ^ 

In July Pres. FR.ANK BETTEXDORF '59 called a special meeting of Club officers, directors and advisory alumni. Tlie purpose of this meeting was to discuss actinties and proposed changes in the Club agenda for '67-*68. The site was the Christo­pher Inn and all who attended agreed on one point — some changes are in order. Area -Mumni should already be aware of at least one of these changes — a stricter policy on, and an advantage to active membership upon pa>'nicnt of dues. 
Aug. 21 was the date of the Club's orientation for incoming Freshmen and their parents. Pres. Ken Castrop of the student club organized and conducted the student panel. Club officers were on hand to welcome the guests. JOHN DORIAN '58 addressed the gathering, telling them of the meaning of ND in his life. John's talk was superb and could not but inspire the freshmen to great loyalty for ND. 
The annual Alumni-Student Picnic was Sept. 9 at Living Waters picnic grounds. The Alumni defeated the students in the annual Super Bowl to remain undefeated. J.\MES GRACE '65 a newr resident attended and was welcomed to the Club. BOB BORDIGNON '65 of Itasca, III., was passing through and attended the picnic. 
A dinner for workers on the SUMMA drive and certain newsmen was held Oct. 12. Chairman of the drive is JOHN IGOE '28. DICK LAUBER '62 is cliairman of this year's membership com* mittee. 
On Oct. 18 the Club sponsored a dinner for the principals of all Franklin County high schools for the purpose of informing them of the availability and requirements of the Joyce scholarship, which provides a ND education for some four to eight area students per vcar. Scioto Countrv Club was the site and JOHN GUEXIN *62, MIKE DRIS­COLL '61, STEVE VAN HEYDE '65 and DAN IGOE '65 welcomed the guests on behalf of the Club. JOHN IGOE '28 was MC. 
—DAN IGOE '65, Secretary 
= DALLAS-FORT WORTH ^^ ^ 

A large crowd was on hand for the summer pi^ nic which took place on July 22. PAUL UNDER­KOFLER, with help from TERRY MURPHY and JIM DENIG, provided a wide variety of enter­tainment for young and old alike. The long-awaited Fall Smoker which featured **The 1966 Notre Dame Football Highlights" was well attended by Club members and friends. Other attractions in­cluded talks by RUSS BELLAMY, pres. of the ND-Texas Club, JOHN RODGERS, who brought us up to date on plans for the SUMMA drive, and JOHN RONAN, who briefed us on his trip to the Alumni Senate meeting in &Iay. CORKY CLARK and LEE FLEMING co-chainnanned this event. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC and other ad­
ministrative officers were in Dallas for the formal 
opening of the SUMMA campaign at an inaugural 

dinner on Oct. 19. A noon luncheon for SUMMA 
committeemen preceded the dinner. 
—LAURENCE BEDFORD '57, Secretary 

^^^ ^ DECATUR, ILL. ^^^ ^ 
Forty-two busy members crowded an annual meeting into tlicir schedule and elected JOHN DUNN '58, pres.; PAT NOLAN '63, >icc-pres.; ED KOVAL '50, treas.; and Rev. ROBERT S. STEWART '45, pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church, chap­lain. The five directors elected arc ED KOVAL '50, JERRY McNAMARA '61, BILL DOWNING '57, RICH MCDONALD '55, and Jim Moran. 
Our annual alumni trip bussed 39 staltvarts to the California game. JOE DONOVAN '56 liters ally takes care of all details. 
—STEVE GRALIKER, '42, Secretary 

^^ ^ EASTERN INDIANA ^^ ^ 
Muncie, and Eastern Indiana Alums, plus a con­tingent of present students, are excited this fall about their first basketball product to head for "Green Power Pastures" since JIM CARNES *40. The subject of the excitement is 6' 6" Jim Hinga (one of JOHNNIE DEE's "Select Seven" frosh recruits), son of Ball State U. basketball coach of the same name. Incidentally, Jim Sr. tells me the successful "Lafayette Line" this year was to remind all of their "Papal Pulverizers," of which there are plenty, that since the Notre Dame "Home Office" did not think enough of them to invite them under the Dome, this would be a good chance to show them! Can*t vouch for this. 
—JOHN C. HYNES '39-'40, Secretary 
FAIRHELO COUNTY. CONNECTICUT 

New officers for the coming year are ^VILLIAM 
E. HARRINGTON *48, pres.; DAMIAN VAC­CARELLA '57, \-ice-pres.; LORING WEBBER '47. sec; and WILLIAM E. REIDY '53. treas. 
Oa Aug. 27 a large group of new students, their parents and Alumni attended the Freshman Sendoff at the Red Coach Grill in Darien, An inspiring and informative address was given by JIM GIBBONS from the dept. of public rela­tions. DAMIAN VACCARELLA handled the ar­rangements. 
A record-breaking crowd attended the Second Annual Sports Night on Oct. 6 also at the Red Co*ch. FRANK G. KELLY, assistant to the VP of public relations and development, spoke on the progress and activities at N D and brought us up to date on the SUMMA program. PAUL SEILER '66 offensive tackle on the undefeated '66 team and first draft choice of the N.Y. Jets told us bow the 1966 team became National Champions. He discussed the All-Star Game, his experience with the Jets and fielded questions from the floor. We saw "The 1966 Notre Dame Football High­lights" film followed by the raffle of an all-expense weekend to the ND -AISU game which was W'on by Ronald Cicero of Bridgeport. BILL REIDY '53 and SARSFIELD FORD '55 headed the committee. BILL HARRINGTON handled MC chores. 
—LORING WEBBER '47, Secretary 

^^^ ^ INDIANAPOUS • 
The annual Golf Outing was a tremendous suc­cess. Chairman TOM O'BRIEN '53 hosted 192 Alumni and guests for dinner following an after­noon of golf enjoyed by 164 golfers. JERRY MURPHY *57 won the 5100 raffle and proceeded to contribute half his winnings to the ND Scholar­ship Fund. Coach Ara Parseghian was the fea­tured dinner speaker. 
The SUMMA Dinner was Oct. 17 at Stoufl"er's Inn with guests Father HESBURGH, Dr. Rossini and Dr. Carmichael as well as VP JIM FRICK. 
We arc sorry to report the recent untimely death of former Club pres. ('49-'50) NICK CON­NER '36 as well as TED MARBAUGH '25. May their souls rest in peace. 
On Nov. 11 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club the annual Scholarship Ball was held. This dinner dance was highlighted by the drawing of the 
' grand prize which this year was an atl-expense-paid trip to Kfiami for two over the weekend of the ND-Miami game. JOHN R. WELCH '47 was chairman of (he dinner dance, while younger brother JIM WELCH '50 chairmanned the raffle. 
PRES. BILL MCGOWA N '57, along with Tom Moynahan, has promoted a weekly Friday-noon luncheon at the Riley Towers for ND Alumni and their friends. The average attendance has been 46 men the first three weeks. 
John O'Connor, Jr., pres-of the campus In­dianapolis Club of ND has appealed for Alumni support of their annual Christmas Ball to be at the Indiana Roof on Dec. 27. 
CHARLES WAGNER '54 chairman of the an­nual Communion Breakfast advises that the Mass will be at the Blessed Sacrament Chapel at­tached to Sts. peter and Paul Cathedral followed by breakfast at Stouffer's Inn. The new co­adjutor Archbishop Biskup has been invited to speak. 
—LEO McNAM.ARA *50, Secretary 

^^^^ JERSEY SHORE ^^^^ 
It is a sad duty to report the death of Rev. Paul Kane, Club chaplain and the recipient of the 1967 Man-of-the-Year award. Father Kane had served the Club faithfully since its inception. This devoted priest died suddenly in Indiana while on one of his annual trips to visit his many friends in the diocese of Peoria, 111., and to attend a nimibcr of the Notre Dame games. The Club's grief at this loss is beyond expression. 
Two events began the fall program of the Club — the Freshman Sendoff and the second annual Club cocktail party. The officers and trus­tees combined to sponsor the first function while DICK CORDASCO '50 and DICK TIERNEY '54 chairmanned the party for the second year. 
The annual Communion Breakfast will be held in Asbury Park on Dec. 10. with the Mass at Holy Spirit Church. Plans arc already under way for the UND Night in the spring with BOB GIUNCO '57 and CHARLIE HESS '57 co-chairmen. The dinner mil be held at the Shadow-brook in Shrewsbury. ' 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1W7 DECEMBER 

A Club innovation begun by Pres. ED VOLL '48 is the meeting ot oSScers and trustees at dinner planning sessions four times a year with the purpose of promoting more Club functions. One new plan calk for a bus trip to the NYU-ND basketball game in the Garden in the winter. 
—CHARLIE KELLER '54, Secretary 

^^ ^ KANSAS CITY, MO. ^^ ^ AND KANSAS 
The Freshman Sendoff was held at the Flaza m restaurant on Sept. 19. The rookies were treated to dinner and tips on what to expect were passed on by JIM LYNCH, retired captain of the '66 Na­tional Champion Fighting Irish and currently line­backer for the AFL champion Kansas City Chiefs, and DENNIS HOGERTY, Peace Corps volunteer destined for duty in the Virgin Islanfls. JOHN WHITAKER '61 was chairman and was ably as­sisted by BERNARD CRAIG '61. It was announced at the dinner that CHUCK O'NEILL '37 had relinquished his duties as president of the Club due to his transfer to Washington, DC. BILL UNGASHICK '43, vice-pres. succeeded Chuck and presided at the dinner. 
SUMMA was inaugurated locally Oct. 10 by Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE, executive v-p, and Dr. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, asst. to the president. ROBERT J. METZLER '44, former Club pres­ident, is general chairman of the project here. It is anu'dpated that Kansas City Alumni, par­ents, and friends will respond to the challenge of the five-year program with their customary charity and determination. 
—THOMAS M. FLEMING '59, Secretary 
i LA CROSSE, WISCJ 

Mr. and Mrs. HENRY FUNK hosted the an­nual steak fry at their Mississippi River cabin on Sept. 22. AUGGIE GRAMS was chairman of the event and supervisor of a special fund-raising event held during the evening. Plans were made for the Communion Dinner on Nov. 16 under the aegis of JERRY HEBERLEIN. Mass was said by Rev. TOM NINNEMAN. 
Election of officers for 1968 to succeed pres. PHIL UTZ, vice-pres. TOM JAEB and scc-treas. BILL ROTH will be held at the annual Com­munion Breakfast on Feb. 4. 
—BILL ROTH '60, Secretary 
: MAINE = 

The Club held its annual meeting on Sept. 6 at Mario's Restaurant in Lewiston. This was in lieu of our annual picnic which we were unable to have due to the fact that the good Fathers closed down Camp Sebaik at East Sebago, Maine. Those in attendance were VINCE ALLEN '67, WIL­LIAM BARTLETT '60, JOHN BELIVEAU *59, JESS DELOIS '42, JOE DOYLE '42, RAY GEIGER '32, RAY LEMAIRE '50, JOHN U. RILEY '17, John Riley his grandson who is also Notre Dame, PAUL SCULLY '41 and TONY SILVA '56. 
Incoming students were honored and attending were John Bennett, Gene Geirger and Zack Brown, accompanied by their fathers. Also at­tending our first meeting was our new associate chaplain Father GEORGE WEBER '61 now resid­ing at St. Joseph's Church in Lewiston. Elected officers are JESS F. DELOIS '42, pres.; JOSEPH 
D. DOYLE '42, vice-pres.; JOHN B. BELIVEAU '59, treas.; and RAY GEIGER '32, perennial sec This was a very excellent meeting and for the first banquet in the State of Maine considered quite a success. We showed pictures of the 1963 football games and had an inspirational talk by outgoing pres. TONY SILVA, to the freshmen. 
On the day of the Michigan State game the following Alumni and wives met at Ray Geiger's house to watch the game and toast the team's effort: J. PAUL SCULLY JR '41, DOM ZURLO JR '58, JOE DOYLE '42, BILL BARTLETT '60, TONY SILVA '56 and the fathcre of the students Maurice Laurendeau and Ed Scarborough. 
—RAY GEIGER. '32. Secretary 

^^^^^ MANIU ^^^^^ 
On March 11, Club members, \vives and friends got together for the movie of "The 1966 Football Highlights." Aside from this showing the film was shared with other friends of Notre Dame: Ateneo U., De La Salle Col., Clark Air Base, US Navy Subic, American School and La Salle in Bacolod. 
On March 21 the Club offered a Requiem Mass for the late DON ALFONSO ZOBEL DE AYALA '24. On Sept. 2 the Club offered a Reqm'em Mass for the late DON ALFONSO PONCE ENRILE. 
—LARRY GOTUACO, '54, President 
= MEMPHIS, TENN. 

New oflficers chosen to lead the Chib dming the 
coming year are JOE SIGNAIGO '48, pres.; 
DAVE SAXON '58, vice-pres.; TOM WHITUAN 
'59, treas.; GEORGE DOUGLAS JR '57, sec; and 
directors: JERRY FOLEY '35, FRENCHY DO­
HOGNE '27 and DAN CANALE '42. Mr. Siguigo 
was a member of the Nadonal Chamirion ibotfaall 
teams of '43, '46 and '47. 
On Aug. 25 the Club had a party for abont GO at the Olde West Dinner Theater. Joe Signaigo, Club pres., was there with his wife Thelma. Among others were Mary Ellen and LOU SAMP­SON, Grace and WALTER BURKE, Fiub and NORMAN BROWN, Gina and JIM TYRRELL, Martha and DAN CANALE, Kay and TOM WHITMAN, Mimi and DAVE SAXON, Mary and CHARLIE SCHAFFLER and MICKEY MORAN with Pat Taylor. 
A TV viewing party for the Mich. St. game Oct. 28 was held. A junket to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech game Nov. 18 and the Pro game between Atlanta Falcons and Los Angeles Rams was planned Nov. 19. A chartered plane supplied transportation for the Club. 
—GEORGE DOUGLAS, JR., Secretary 

^^ ^ GREATER MIAMI ^^^ 
The formal opening of SUMMA for South Florida was Oct. 12 at the Bath Club on Miami Beach. A reception honoring special guests Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC; Dr. Oliver C Car­michael Jr; James W. Frick; and Dr. Frederick D. Rossini preceded the dinner. We are quite prond to have had such a distinguished team present this greatest challenge to over 200 Alumni, wives and friends who attended. Our South Florida Chairman FRANK MACKLE JR, and Nora and PAUL SCHAEFER '50 were rwponsible for the success of the evening. Assisting Chainnan Mackle are PAUL SCHAEFER '50. JACK BAR­
ROBERT J. WELSH JR., WILLIAM L TRAVIS, REV. EDMUND JOYCE CSC, ROBERT L. HAUTER, PATRICK MALONEY Calumet Region SUMAAA leaders welcome panel chairman. 
DR. FREDERICK D. ROSSINI, REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC, THOAAAS WHITE, PHILIP LUCIER, JOE DWYER In St. Louis time for a talk. 
RETT '52. GEORGE HERO '52, aad JOHN 
THORNTON '50. Special asutsatf are CHAR­
LIE CALLAHAN >3B and Joe Roblne. 
Our bnsf bn ataaom was opened whh the aamal 
fathcr^oa ni^t on Sept. 7 at the Hbtd Unacr* 
Chainnaa CHARLIE MAHER '35 planned tUi 
fiae cvenisg at which over 60 Onb matbcn, ito­
dents aad thdr fathers attended. As a fbuJe to 
the prograai the filiu "Notie Dame" aad "The 
1966 Notre Daae Football HigUights" were shtnra. 
At our Oct. 5 meeting we were pleased to hare 
as oar spedal gnest DICK KUWE oi the Notre 
Dame Foimdatiaa Office. 
—L. NICK MUELHAOIT, Secieuty 

^^^^ NEW jaSEY^^^^ 
This was our finest hour. Never before have the Almnni been so privileged to meet and bear the leaden of omr beloved Univenity. This was at the kickoCC of SUMMA, the most ambitioas picgiam in any omvexsity's history. Over 400 Ahmmi and their wives were privileged to hear ND Resident Rev. TTheodore M. Hesburgh CSC deliver, in ha inimitable style, another of those rsfiting aad dynamic talks that stir up so mnch pride ia the heart of every fme Notre Dame man. 
Governor Hughes of New Jeisey led off the fes­tivities congratulating Fr. Hesburgh and the New Jersey Ahmmu This was the second time the Gov­ernor has graced oar official fimctions aad he demonstrated once again why he's so well respected as a man and civil servant. 
Dr. O. C. Carmichael and Dr. Frederick Roamd gave us background iiUbimation on the objectives of SUMMA as cEd yoong Christopher Morphy m , the Student Boiiy president. Don Criqui did a mastoful job as M.C. Jim Frick gave a talk which proved why our programs have been la masterfully handled by this administrative genxns. 
The thanks of every Ahunnus nmst go to Bcraie &awfoxd who has been a tower of strength and detfieation to the soccesa of SUMMA. Onr hats 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER «I 
are off to Bcrnic for his leadership. 
To mention just a few of the many New Jersey 
Alumni who attended with their beautiful and 
adoring wives: ANGE BERTELLI, FRANK TRI­
PUCKA, JOE BYRNE III, DEON SUTTON (a 
Notre Dame Foundation rep who worked so hard 
and long), BOB JOYCE, JIM SEBOLD, Hon. 
TOM WALKER, BILL CROSBY, GENE AN­
GIULLI, NICK VILLAROSA, cx-Yankcc GIL 
McDOUGAL, HARRY DURKIN, BILL 
KIRSCHXER, ART ARMENTO, JEFF FLAG­
STAD, ART STATUTO, JIM McGOLDRICK, 
JACK PINDAR, \VALT CONNELL, Dr. ART 
TUTEL.A, JOE LEPORE, HARRY O'MEALU. 
JOE ABBOTT, PHIL SHERIDAN, JOE and 
JIM KELLY, JOHNNY F. KELLY, BILL SCUL­
LY, OrrO SCHERER, HANK BORDA, TOM 
FARLEY, GEORGE WENZ, PETE LUSARDI, 
BILL CROSBY (our executive vicc-presO, BILLY 
KELLY, (DAN GR.ACE, HOWARD GILLESPIE, 
my counterparts in Central Jcrse>- and New York, 
respectively), ED VON HOEHNE, GEORGE 
KEENAN, JIM GIBBONS from Campus and a 
host of others. 
Many names were omitted, and there are nu­
merous ones who have been so active that we 
must apologize. But the evening was so memor­
able and SUMMA such an inspiring event that 
P m surprised I remembered so many. 
To every Alumnus who wasn't there, let mc 
lay as your president that wc need your support— 
socially, financially, etc So please share with us 
the wonderful moments that only ^ve as Notre 
Dame men can experience. Oh, yes! Let's all 
start with our Communion Breakfast in December 
—^we want ever>*one there. 
One final word. The wives of otir Alumni gave 
such grace and dignity to this affair that we trust 
they will continue to be a part of every future 
function. So to Jane Scbold, Pat Joyce, Mrs. J. 
Byrne and Joe's mother, Mrs. A. Arment, and 
Mrs. J- Flagstad, Joanne 0''Mcalia, Jane Pindar, 
Emmy Lou Kelly and Joan Sheridan and all the 
rest—many thanks. (Oops, I forgot to mention 
my own w-ife, Eleanor) 
—ANGE AMATO '42, President 
^OHIO VALLEY^ 
N D Alumni, parents and guests held an in­formal dinner meeting at Figcretti's Elm Grove Restaurant, Wheeling, W. Va., on Sept. 13 as a SeadofI for local students attending ND. The fol­lowing were in attendance; Mr. and Mrs. BILL BUCH '59, Mr. and Mrs. HARRY HUGH '59, Mr. and Mrs. JIM HARANZO '52, Mr. and Mrs. BILL HOGAN '51, Mr. and Mrs. RAY KEYS, '49, Mr. and Mrs. BILL MITSCH '33, Mr. and Mrs. John Maier (parents of Ronald Maier '69), Mr. and Mrs. Leo J. Bonenberger (parents of L. P. BO­NEXBERGER '64), Mr .and Mrs. Bill Flynn, Mr. and Mrs. Paul Ottc, Mr. Albert Hcnnen (father of Terry Hennen '71), Mr. Jack Altmeyer (father of Tom Altmeyer '69), Mr. Terry Hennen '71, Mr. Ronald Maier '69, Mr. Bill Mitsch Jr. '69, Mr. Bob Mitsch '70. After the dinner Club pres. BILL BUCH outlined future plans including a golf tournament and a TV smoker for the ND-Mich. State game. 
On behalf of the Club I wish to extend our sympathy to Dr. W. E. ACKERMAN '33 on the 
death of his ydie: on Aug. 21, 1967; and Dr. RICHARD E. FLOOD '37 on the death of his 
mother on Aug. 29, 1967. 
—BILL MITSCH '33, Secretary-Treasurer 
OREGON 
The second annual picnic at Champocg State 
Park with a turnout of 30 families was a sue­
cess. Dclores and RAY MARTIN, with the 
assistance of JIM MORAN, TOM TOMJACK, 
JACK ROGERS and their wives capably organ­
ized the races and other sports actit^tics. Some 
of the Club members complained that the 100­
yard dash, shortened to 30 yards, should be 
further reduced to a dash from the picnic tables 
to the refreshments. Members, wives and friends 
gathered at the Terrace Room of the U. of Port­
land to watch the Michigan State game. 
—J. MICHAEL WHITE, Secretary 
PAKISTAN 
HUGH T. MURPHY '59 has arrived back in 
Dacca w*ith his bride the former Joanne Tilley. 
Hugh is associated with the US AID program 
for Pakistan. Tlic ncwlyivcds are living at CWN 
(E), 9 Gulshan, Dacca—5. M. A. ZAMAN, who 
received his PhD at Notre Dame in January, has 
also returned to Dacca and mil be teaching in 
the botany dept. of the U. of Dacca. 
—Rev. F. J. BURTON CSC, Secretory 
PEORIA, lU. 
The new officers for 1967-68 arc BOB MANNING 
'60, pres.; BILL STOTZER '56, vice-pres.; 
WALLY CASHMAN '54, sec.; and JOHN HOF­
F£R '51, treas. The election was held at our 
June 13 meeting at the "Pabst 33" room. LOU 
ZUMBALEN '49, our '66-'67 president, gave us 
a report on the Alumni Seminar which he at­
tended at ND. JOHN PUSEY '65, a grad, stu­
dent, also spoke on the aspects of current campus 
life at ND. Members then saw "The 1966 Notre 
Dame Football Highlights." 
The annual Back-to-Scbool Dinner was held 
Sept. 12 at PETE VONACHEN*S '49 "Vonachcn*s 
Junction." CHUCK PERRIN '54 presented the 
Lt. James A. Cassidy Award for academic achieve­
ment to Frank J. Galvin, Pekin, III. Gal\in, a 
senior majoring in architecture, received the sixth 
annual award for the highest over-all average of 
all Peoria area students at the University. Guest 
speaker at the dinner w*as Cook County asst. 
Sute's Attorney William J. Martin, chief prose­
cutor at the Richard Speck trial held here in 
Peoria. Klartin spoke of the growing problems 
connected with crime tn the metropoUtan-oricntcd 
society of today. 
Dr. & Mrs. Edward ^Vard now have four sons 
attending ND; Edward *68; David '68; Eric '69 
2md Douglas '71. The 1966 graduation class of 
Peoria's new Catholic boys' high school, Bergen, 
is well represented in the ND freshman class this 
year with six young men attending. 
—WALTER D. CASHMAN 'M, Secretary 
^^ ^ RHODE ISLAND AND ^^^ 
S.E. MASSACHUSETTS 
A dinner dance was held the evening of Sept. 9 at the Pawtucket Country Club introdudng »x 

of the 11 freshmen attending Notre Dame from Rhode Island this year. Pres. TOM McHALE greeted Bob Hurley, John Mahoney, John Regan, Ernie Santoro, John Tobin, and Tim Trcmblay at the wcll-attcndcd party. Worthy of note is the fact that Ernie Santoro and John Regan both spumed academic scholarships to respected col­leges in this area to attend Notre Dame. The new club officers for the coming year were intro­duced as follows: Pres. TOM McHALE »59; vicc­prcs. PETE SUTHERLAND '55; trcas. GEORGE HESS '56; and sec. BOB McHALE '58. It was announced that plans have commenced for a Christmas dance. 
—THOMAS J. McHALE '59, President 
ROCHESTER, N-Y. = 

On Aug. 19 the Club picnic was held at Ellison Park. Many thanks to Jan and TOM CUSKER for all their efforts towards the success oC the affair which featured the usual attempts at athletic prowess called touch football. The "fivc-y-ard-and­collapsc" runs and the offensive blocking were es­pecially comical. Highlight of the entertainment was JIM DOYLE's recitation of "Selected Poems by Gcnkhis Khan" and FRANK CONSLER's simul­taneous translation. 
Each year JACK NYE DUFFEY organizes the Freshman Orientation designed to familiarize the new ND frosh to life under the Golden Dome. On Sept. 7 this get-together was held at the Ccnacle Retreat House for over 25 freshmen add their parents. Ellie and GENE YURGEALITIS. Pat and JOHN ANDREWS, JOHN GALVIN and Club Pres. ROY HANNA assisted Jack at this very popular and wortlnvhilc event. 
The ND Women's Organization which has con­tributed so much to the Club's success over the years will begin its yearly program on Nov. 4 %vith a luncheon. Ellen Yurgealitis, pres.; Ginny Bergin, vice-pres.; Mary Ann Dempscy, sec; Emma Yohon, treas.; Pat Andrews, program chairman and Daisy Klce, publicity chairman, arc this year's officers and wc certainly extend our best wishes to them. 
A Thanksgiving weekend and tickets to the ND-Miami game were the attractions offered in the Club's Scholarship Fund Raffie held under Chair­man PHIL VAN DER KARR. Reports on the lucky winners next issue. 
Congratulations to JIM PORCARI on his recent acceptance of a position with the Afetropolitan Rochester Foundation Inc. 
—BOB DEWEY '54, Secretary 
= ROME = 

Our ND Hospitality Center at Largo Brancaccio 82 is open every day from noon to nine. Welcome and telephone us at 730.002. Rome comers should remember that Papal audiences by PAUL VI LLD *60 are Wednesdays at U a.m. A Papal public blessing is given Sundays at noon. 
Welcome to new Roman NDer Bro. FRANCIS CONRAD DELVAUX CSC '67 MA, (acuity of Notre Dame International School. Regrets on departure of Dr. VINCE lONATA '60 who won medical degree U. of Rome and JOE SIMONS '44-'47. 
Deluxe guests; JIM ARMSTRONG '25, with 
MR. and MRS. ARTHUR BEC VAR and MR. and MRS. KENNETH A. BARKER JR. Louisville ladies are interested too. 
<S2 

MR. and MRS. CHARLES PATTERSON and MR. and MRS. LEO LINBECK SR. Display in Houston attracts attention. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH and GOV. JOHN VOLPE Massachusetts Governor honors ND President with membership in Order of Paul Revere Patriots. 
wife Marion and son Bro. PHILIP CSC '55. 
This was a historic honor for us, affording a 
Roman opportunity to fete Jim in gratitude for 
his exemplary 41 years of Alumni leadership 
loyalty. Following on Jim's heels was Father 
HESBURGH. Then Father JOHN REEDY, editor 
Avt Maria with Father JOSEPH QUINN of 
Family Rosary organization. And ND's friendly-
enemy Duffy Daugherty of you-know-where! 
Pious pilgrims: Dr. GORDON DI RENZO '56 with copy of his new book (in Italian) on person­ality and political power in Italy. JOHN GRIF­FI.V '39, trustee St. Mary's, BILL MAUS '53 and wife, VICTOR KIMMEL '44, TOM MALEI '69, EUGENE MUR '69, RICHARD ZIENTEL '69, MICHAEL Z^VETTLER '62, MIKE SARTON '66, Sr AUGUSTA RSM '67, WILFRED DAVYER "22 and JOHN '71, DAVID KABAT '68, MICH.\EL MCKEON '68, SMC daughters of JOHN WITTLIFF '32, son PHIL '70, SMC daughter of ROBERT NEWTON '34 and sister of W.\RREN ALBRIGHT '59, EDWARD O'CON­NOR '54, Fr. JOSEPH HAYDEN '44, ROBERT VEE.\E.\f.AN '47, RANDY SUTLIFF '67, ROB­ERT QUINN '65 with wife SMC '67, DOUG MARVIN '69, JOHN MARTIN '62, RICHARD LA PORTE '66, DAVE CAMERON '68, sister of CARL FLECKER '64, sister of TERRY PLUNK­ETT '59, niece of ROBERT CHENAL '34, KEVIN IGOE '67 son of JOHN '28 brother DAN '65, family of ROSE and FRANCESCO DEL VALLE '62, Brothers CLARENCE POD­GORSKI and NORBERT ALLERTON CSC, PATRICK SHAW '67, PAUL McCONVILLE '67, JAMES CIMINO '65 and wife, CLETE WILLI.AMS and BRUNO RUZZO '67, TOM DONOVAN '66, LEONARD CALL '20 and wife, WALTER ZUBER '49, Dr. JAMES STEIN­
TR.AGER '58 and family. Rev. AMBROSE GERMAN OFM '59, VINCENT BUCCI '44, Rev. DAVIS BURKE CSC '60, JOE LA NASA '64, SMC sister of BILL SCHMULL '65, BOB '69, dad WILLI.AM '36, wife of D. COMMISSA '45, sister of S-i^L '36 VINCENT '41 NICK COM­MISSA '45, daughter of GEORGE O'BRIEN '34, Sr ROSELINA TINNES '65, Sr ANNE ISABEL '68, JOSEPH COSTELLO '52 sister of TOM DE ANGELIS '64, RONALD VINCI '66, widow of BILL COYNE '27 '29 and debating coach, SXfC daughters of JAMES SULLIVAN '30 brothers BILL '62 JOHN '65, ROBERT MILLER '42 and family, Sr .AGNESE PRENDERGAST M.\ '46 MA '55 and faculty. 
ELLIOT BINZEN '66, PATRICK MURPHY '37, sister of Rev. DANIEL BOIAND CSC, FRANK MELEWICZ '68, parents of TOM AfcCLORY '70, PAUL PEZZA '66, LEE FL^TLEY ex-faculty and wife, brother of BILL BRENNAN '68, FRANCIS McGAHREN '34 and wife, KEVIN 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 
CAHILL '63, EDWARD nSCHER '37 faculty. 
relatives of STEVE HERMES '67, JOHN CLE­
MENS '43 and wife, Capt. MEZZAPELLE '59 and 
family, THOMAS GRADY '41 and family, Sr 
PAULINE GRADY '61, GEORGE SCHWARZ 
'25 and wife, Capt USN PAUL BOLAND '45 
and family, parents of DANIEL BACHINI '64, 
PAUL FORTINO '38 and wife, G. MIHOUCH 
'43, DAN O'NEIL '25, THOMAS GORDON '63, 
TOM KENEDY '42 and mfe, TIM MORIARTY 
'64 and wife brother TERRY '67, parents of TOM 
RINK '67, JIM DONOGHUE '40. 
Four lawyers, same firm, father-sons: JOHN 

O'DONNELL '24 with wife, parents of JOHN 
and JAMES '31 and HUGH '37. Parents of Dr 
RAYMO.ND ROSEDALE '54, Msgr. ALLAN 
NILLES '42, JOE CROTTY '37 and wife, Capt 
VIRGIL PAVIA '56, JIM BRENNAN V-7 '45 
and wife, JOHN LEONARD '53 and wife, aunt 
of ANTHONY HASKE '61, parents of RICHARD 
LANNIN '63, Col. BILL LEAVEY '47. 
DICK SMALL '51, pres. of Alumni Holidays, Inc. sent us two alumni groups U. of Wisconsin and Indiana U. Joseph Black Indiana alumni pres. visited ND Center with his party as did SAM OGLE of Wisconsin Alumni. Sam attended ND in Rock's time. By individual visitors over 30 other colleges arc represented in our guest book while over 190 school peimants, all im­solicited, grace our ND den. 
—VLNCE McALOON '34, Secretary 
SAN JOSE '• 

Officers elected for 1967-68 are TED SOBIERAL­SKI '54, pres.; TORMEY WARD '60, vice-pres.; MAURY DE WALD '62, treas.; BOB SAXE '63, sec; and Rev. ART SCHOENFELDT CSC, chaplain. The Club's new Board of Directors includes DICK KELCH '54, DAVE HICKEY '27, BERT MILLEN '57, Dr. V. T. MURPHY '45. WALTER GILL '56, and BOB FIGEL '49. 
Top three places in the summer Golf Tourna­ment went to MAURY DE WALD, TOM WEB­BER '62 and JIM COYLE '51, respectively. BOB FIGEL served as chairman of the very successful annual family barbecue highlighted this year with a talk on SUMMA by JOHN HUTTON '62, West Coast rep of the ND Foundation. The 1967 football season was closed with the Club's East-West Shrine Game Testimonial Dinner, planned and promoted this year by BILL SHINE '49. 
—BOB SAXE '63, Secretary 
••• SPOKANE, WASH. 

Club members and friends gathered at the home of Pres. Dr. DEE J. McGONIGLE '52 to view the MSU game on color TV. Between halves Dec's wife Kay scr\-ed hearty refreshments and at the caodnsion of the same nctoiy was jnoperly 
celcbiated. 
Amngements are being made for the obser­
vance of UND Commuaioa Sunday on Dec. 10 
at Onr Lady of Lourdes ^thedral. Speaker at the 
breakfast vnll be Rev. Michael CNeill, £octsaa 
snpt. of schools. Father O'Neill is the son of 
JOHN P. O'NEILL '29. He received his FbDl 
from Harvard this year. 
The Club has welcomed to its ranks Capt. 
DONALD HcALUSTER '61, who was recently 
assigned to the medical staff at Fairchild AFB 
near Spokane. 
—JOE WALSH, '14, Sccy-Treas. 

^^ s TBWE HAUTE, IND. ^^ ^ 
The NotTc Dame Club of Terre Haute sponsored 
a back to Notre Dame dinner for students from tbe 
Terre Hante area. £D UEBLER and JIM 
SULLTVAN were co-chainnen for the event. Stu­
dents from Terre Haute are: seniors Ed laebler 
and Jim McCarthy, sophs Dave SuUi^an and 
Mike Eldred, freshmen John Kelly- and Steve 
Butma and law School student Mil^ Williamson. 
Father DONALD BUCHANAN is the newest 
menUKr of the Terre Haute Club. He completed 
bis master's at Notre Dame this past summer 
and is now dean of boys at Schulte Catholic HS 
and is assigned to St. Patrick's Parish. 
For any ND Alumni passing thru Terre Haute 
the Qub meets the second Tuesday of each montb 
in Bemie Burdick's ofiGce at the Stran Steel 
plant. 
—JIM BOYER, Secretary 
TRIPLE CITIES NEW YORK 

Activities for the year began in September with 
tbe annual student sendoff party and smoker bigb* 
lighting films of last year's successful football 
season under the tUrtction of TOM BENEDICT 
'49 and DICK HANIFAN '49. Two recent 
graduates BOB HAINES '66 and JIM HAINES 
'67 spoke, as did KEN WHITING '70. 
In the fall tbe Club particulates in a Catholic 
College Alumni Night joining with other uni­
versities in this annual affair. GEORGE HAINES 
'42 is pres. of the local chaqiter of the Catholic 
CoUege Alunmi. JOE GALLOWAY '51 beads 
the Notre Dame committee for tbe affur. 
This year the Club raised funds through a , 
raffle for the Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
football tickets. The prize included expenses and 
two nights in a fabulous downtown South Bend 
boteL -MXPHEN F. DRAGOS '61, Secretary 
UTAH 

A Freshman Sendoff was the occasion for onr meeting held Aug. 12 at the home of BILL ALLEN '57, Pres. It was a picnic affair with hot dogs and beer plus all the usual trimmings on the menu. AH the girls worked hard to make the event a success. New students present at the meeting with their parents were BRIAN BUSH '71 BOB CROWDER '71 and KEN FAKLER 
•71. Also present were JOHN LYONS '69 and FRANK AMUSSEN, grad student. 
Alumni and honorary alumni present with their latGes were BILL ALLEN '57, Dr. JOHN SCHIRACK '50, BILL POGUE '61, FRANK CALLAHAN '62, Lt. Cmdr. CHUCK BENNETT '55, TED BARES '59, JOHN MORAN '47, DON RONEY '58, BOB GRISLEY '50 and BILL ALLEN SR. A good time was had by all. Plans for an upcoming trip to Logan in December for tbe ND-Utah State basketball game were dis­cussed. 
—BOX POGUE '61, Sec-Treas. 

^ ^ WASHINGTON, D.C. ^ ^ 
The Club officers FRANK McCARTHY, JACK LOWE, RAY RAEDY and JOE LIBBY held forth at a luncheon for the incoming freshmen and their parents at Bonat's Cafe on Sept. 6. Bill Beyer, pres. of the ND Washington student club, answered many of the questions about what to expect at school. 
The dub bad scheduled a Night at the Races on Oct. 4 but the track had a strike which eventually forced the cancellation of the fall Season. However, arrangements are being made to go to another track later in the year. 
Father JOSEPH REHGE, our Qub chaplain, was transferred to New Orleans over the summer to become dir. of the house of studies there. Father GEORGE BERNARD, superior of Holy Cross Col., was elected as our ne^v chaplain. 
—RAYMOND RAEDY '62, Treasurer 
«3 

Vietnamese conflict, since massive 
VISITORS 
North Vietnamese infiltration did not 
No "Mop Heads"... 
Though the University got just as many plugs in other net\vork shows this fall, John Davidson was at Notre Dame for two weeks in October. He brought with him some 75 other show business people rounded up by Bob Banner Associates and they had a budget of $275,000 for the hour-long "special." 
Broadcast the night before the ND-Michigan State game (which was also nationally televised by ABC), the John Davidson show netted some im­pressive reviews. Variety pointed out, "For all its localisms and pure appeal to the massed collegians in Notre Dame's geodesic dome, the John Da­vidson hour was attractive enough to make you glad you dialed it. Not a whopper with a big 'special' banner hanging over it but just earthy music 
JOHN DAVIDSON "Clean, man, clean . . ," 
and comedy not dipped in pot nor high-blo^vn on a trip. Clean, man, clean . . . 
"It \vas pleasing to see clean-cut college kids enjoying clean entertain­ment instead of demonstrating on the streets with mop-headed agitators. Television needs more of 'John David­son at . . . .' to blow down the critics of the war in Vietnam who hog the headlines and bring the TV camera­men running." 
The New York Times said the show turned out to be a "better-than-aver­age pep rally" and mentioned—as did other reviews across the country—that one of the high points was Davidson's interview wth football player George Kunz. Kunz admitted on the show it was his first date with the blonde from St Mary's who sat on the floor next to him. Asked if he planned to 
•date her again, he grinned and replied, "Not if her boyfriend sees this show." 
<4 
Another charming audience Inter­view made the show on the air, but other couples who were interviewed during the four taping sessions must have been disappointed. Then, too, thousands of dollars in film and man hours were cast aside when time prevented showing scenes of Home­coming activities and interviews with students on current events. The Glee Club was cut down to one number but so were pop singers "Spanky and Our Gang" and comic George Carlin didn't get all his stufF on the air nor did folk singer Judy Collins (and some stuff she was!)—^and that's show business. 
Notre Dame was pronunently, though indirectly, featured in another TV special, a rebroadcast of last year's "The Long Childhood of Timmy." It told the story of Timmy Loughlin, brother of Jerry Loughlin '69 of NYC, and his family's decision to send Timmy away to a school for retarded children. 
Another documentary, "One Night Stands," aired in November, showed popular singer Johimy Rivers during his performance at Notre Dame fol­lomng the Southern California game. It included Campus scenes and also showed Notre Dame students in the audience. 
Other comments on the John Davidson show are included in the "Alumni Ask" section on p^ e 2. 
.. . but Lots of Pros 
Alread/ this school year Notre Dome students and faculty hove hosted one of the most im­pressive lists of Campus visitors the University has ever seen—and more are yet to come. Most of the speakers were contracted by the Academic Commission of Student Government. Following are capsule reports of the talb, though each speaker would be worthy of on entire story if space were available. Editor, ALUMNUS 
Appearing on Campus, Oct. 2, Mark Hatfield, Republican Senator from Oregon and prominent dove, declared the Vietnam war "Unwinnable" and accused the Johnson Administration of hiding the facts of failures in South­east Asia. According to Hatfield, it is up to the Republican Party in 1968 to hold out a meaningful alternative to American presence in Vietoam. He would like to see the conflict "de-Americanized," bombing of the North stopped and the South Vietnamese left to fight their own battie. 
Kenneth O'Donnell, John Kennedy's closest political adviser, recalled his years with Kennedy in a speech at Notre Dame Oct. 3. He said there could be no way to tell what Ken­nedy would have done in the present start in the South until after his death. He mentioned Kennedy's legislative record would have been better if he, like Johnson, had a solid Democratic majority in the Congress. In recalling the assassination, he took issue with author William Manchester who said there \vas friction between the Ken­nedy and Johnson staffs on the plane returning to Washington. "They were in one part of the plane, and we were in a totally separate section. We had litde contact with each other," O'Donnell said. 

Two major national conferences—one on secularity and theology and the other on birth control—^were part of the busy fall schedule of the Center for Continuing Education. Both meet­ings were closed to the public and limited to invited guests including some prominent national figures. 
One lecture, that by Rev. Edward Schillebeecloc OP, a professor at the Catholic U. of Nijmegen in The Netherlands, was open to the public as part of the "Secularity and Con­temporary Theology" conference. Father Schillebeeckx, who served as the theological expert for the Dutch bishops at the Second Vatican Council, discussed relations betvveen a secular and a Christian expectation of the future and man's role in bring­ing it about. Among others who participated- in this symposium was Dr. Harvey Cox of the Harvard Divinity School. 
There was also a public lecture as part of the conference on "The Changing Woman: The Impact of Family Planning." This was delivered by Dr. and Mrs. Joseph W. Byrd, authors of The Freedom of Sexual Love. Their topic was "Anatomy of Good Marriage." 
Among the other participants in this conference, organized by the ND Institute for the Study of Population and Social Change, were William Masters, director of the Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, and his research associate, Virginia Johnson; Jacqueline Grennan, president of Webster Col­lege; and Betty Rollin, senior editor of Look magazine. 
Julian Bond, the first Negro legislator in the Georgia government since the Reconstruction, in his talk at the Uni­versity Oct. 10 traced the history of Negro political power in America. He said the Negro, especially in the South, could get no representation from the regular Democratic Party and cited the rise of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party and tlie 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

BOND JOHNSON HATFIELD O'DONNEU UBBY 
Lowndes County, Ala. Democratic party in electing officials. 
Dr. Willard Libby, Nobel prize-wiiming chemist, in his talk Oct. 17 on Campus urged the US Government to not make the mistake of branding the space program nonessential. Appearing as the first speaker in the "Challenges in Science" lecture series, he said the practical applications possible from space research will never be realized if the program is allowed to wither be­cause of expense. 
Vance Hartlce, Democratic Senator 
From civil rights to the Vietnam war. 
from Indiana, warned Oct. 23 that bombing pauses over North Vietnam are not enough to bring peace and that a broader plan is needed. He strongly criticized Secretary of State Dean Rusk and Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara for mishandling the conflict, though he did not call for their resignations. 
Robert Welch, head of the John Birch Society, spoke on the Society's efforts to combat communism Oct. 24 at Stepan Center. He pointed with pride to the different ethnic and religious backgrounds of the members. 
while C(»demning the civil-i%hts and peace movements as Commuiust-in­spired. He said the Society has re­laxed its attempt to impeach Chief Justice Earl Warren. 
Gen. Harold K. Johnson, Army Chief of Staff, defended the administration policy in Vietnam Nov. 17. He denied the conflict was a dvil war, sayinig there are more than half a million North Vietnamese troops in the South. He declared the US is winning the war, both militarily anid politicly, but would not estimate how long the war would last. 
Packers in Miniskirts Tlireat to Notre Dame 
(Continued 

"No Bryn Mawr. In the College Bowl. You know, 
the quiz game. Brains, not brawn. What's the line?" 
It was so quiet you could hear the click of pool 
balls being racked. Then South Bend Eddie com­
menced laughing. 
"You mean chicks? Agamst the Irish? Listen, 
we'll play 'em in hopscotch, Mah Jong or spin-the­
bottle. Who did Bryn Mawr ever beat?" 
"The U. of California at Riverside last week. 
Score was 230-70. Bryn Mawr wasn't breathing 
hard." 
"Yeah?" said South Bend Eddie, suddenly in­terested. "Aw, let 'em get a reputation first. Have they ever had an Elmer Layden, a Bill Shakespeare, a Bertelli or Lujack or Homung or—" 
"Sure. They had Katherine Hepburn, Cornelia Otis Skinner, Marianne Moore, Dr. Emily Bach who won the Nobel Prize. . . ." 
"Ridiculous. You mean they're gonna say in the dressing room, 'C'mon gang, win this one for Cor­nelia Otis,' " scoffed South Bend Eddie. "What they got, 750 chicks against our 7200 manly, erudite, profound scholars? Have they been No. One? Have they got the Golden Dome tradition?" 
Emotional as always. South Bend Eddie broke into a hoarse, offkey version of "Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame . . . wake up the echoes that cheer her name. . . ." What, he snarled, did Bryn Mawr have that compared? 
"Well, they have this chant that goes 'Anassa kata, kalo kale, ia! ia! ia! nike!' " Haverford a 3-Time Loser in Scrimmases. "What kind of dumb cheer is that?" 
"Well, it means 'Goddess descend, we invoke you O beautiful one, hail, hail, hail, victory.'" 
from Page 9) 

"I think," said South Bend Eddie before the phone crashed down on the hodc, "that we are in trouble." 
Exacdy the feelings of Dr. Robert Patten, who is the Ara Parseghian of the Mainline (distaff divi­sion). A young English professor. Dr. Patten has whipped his Bryn Mawr dub together since Septem­ber. He started with 149 candidates, then drove his Four Fillies— Ashley Doherty, Robin Johnson, Ruth Gais and Diane Ostheim — through 2,000 practice questions. Before waxing Cal on TV, his assassins ripped Haverford three times in scrimmages. 
"And these aren't pros but pure amateurs," said Dr. Patten darkly. "Some schools—I will not men­tion names — keep their players in special dorms, with daily training sessions, no outside dasswork. And they have specialists in sdence, music, et cetera. Ours play every poation." 
The Bym Mawr coach saw weaknesses last week in naming the Aristotelian categories, an equation about the rotation of the earth and the works of Bertrand Russell. It gave Cal their 30 points. 
"We'll be up for this one," said Dr. Patten. "Notre Dame had a spy invade our campus. A boy infiltrated the dorms here, took notes on our training methods, scouted our perscnmel. I'm serious. We.' considered retaliating by sending a g^l with a bad cold to Notre Dame, but I am against germ vrarfare." 
If Bryn Mawr wins this one, they have a diot at the all-time 5-0 record and a $19^00 paydf. Dr. Patten cautions, however, that his dub may be slowed down by exam week. 
"We respect Notre Dame," said the coadi, "but 
remember—we're Number One." Ia! Ia! Ia! 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 
ts 
BOOKS 

WHO'S WHO IN AMERICAN POLITICS, edited by Paul A. Theis '48 and Edmund L. Henshaw Jr., R. R. Bowlcer Co., $25. 
Who says tlie Democrats and the GOP 
can't cooperate? The first edition of 

a good idea shows it's certainly pos­
sible—at least when publicity' for both 
is involved. 
As public relations director for die 
Republican Congi-essional Committee, 
Paul A. Theis '48 joined forces with 
Edmund L. Henshaw Jr., research 
director for the Democratic Congi-es­
sional Committee, in editing the 832­
page volume. "The duties ^vere split 
evenly and bipartisanly," Theis re­
ports. 

"In addition to setting up the ad­visor^' committee for die book—which was chaired jointly by John M. Bailey of the Democratic National Commit­tee and Ray C. Bliss of the Republican National Committee—we also laid out tlie criteria for inclusion in the direc­tor)' and helped make tlie final deter­minations as to who did or did not go into the book," he explained. 
And like a politician, he sixth-sensibly added, "I'm sure, however, we overlooked a number of polidcal leaders who should have been in (hopefully, none from Notre Dame) and perhaps even included some who should have been left out. But we hope to straighten out these problems by the next edition." 
Questionnaires were sent to 20,000 politicians—^Henry Cabot Lodge got his in Vietnam—and some 12,500 of the replies were selected. All the leaders in the two major parties— from die President to the precinct— made it, along with the top names in the minorit)' parties. The ne-xt edi­tion, to be published early in 1969, will take care of tliose who "arrive" during the 1968 elections. 
A PROUD TRADITION/NOTRE DAME, by Donrel Moore 11, Mossberg & Company, Inc., Soulh Bend, S2.35. 
This 64-page, 8J4xl l paperbound gem is a journey through "an institu­tion within an institution." Pisfskin fans of all allegiances will be delighted with this picturebook of the "who, what, where and when" of football at the University of Notre Dame. 
The photographs, mostly taken by ALUMNUS photographer Richard Stevens '51, are superb duo-tone re­productions and are 116 great shots selected from more than 1,500 in­dividual negatives. 
Beginning with Father Hesburgh's quotation on football ".. . a proud Notre Dame tradition of doing every­thing with style, spirit and e-xcellence," and a brief introduction about the Uni­versity, the brochure-like publication tiien studies the anatomy of football under the Golden Dome. Covered are such things as practice, the games, the rallies, the off-the-field lives of the ball players, the victories, tlie losses. . . . It's so thorough that, if there is a criticism of the title, it reads like a textbook and leaves very littie for granted. 

Certainly, though, the photography and printing alone make the piece wordiwhile. For more information write to: Mossberg & Company, Inc., 
P.O. Box 1, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
SPORTS 
'M"^^'.^ 
'ir O'^ ^ 
V -^ « 

i^s t } *; f 
THE NATION'S PRESEASON CHAMPS Pressures made victory more sweet. 
No. 501 and Still Counting 
COR MORE of the season than they ' would care to admit, the Fighting Irish were forced to play "catch-up ball." It was more notably a factor in the Purdue, Southern California and Miami games. But it also was the pre­vailing characteristic of the overall season. 
"After four games," Coach Ara Par­seghian revealed at the November 30 football banquet, "the team found themselves wt h two \nns and two losses . . . and this developed into a real problem. 
"With the likelihood of a national championship quite remote and there being no incentive for post-season bowl games, this team was faced with a real morale problem. Only the sheer tenacity and the desire to pro­duce a true Notre Dame record spir­ited this team on to six straight vic­tories . . . and for this reason the '67 Irish ^vill go down in history as one of the finest." 

The near-capacity crowd in the North Dining Hall that evening let the squad know there was no doubt in their minds. The 29 all-time ND records that were broken in '67 also were ample evidence. And if this weren't enough to convince critics, Parseghian produced a poll that ranked Notre Dame number one. 
While tiie Associated Press placed ND fifth and the UPI saw the Irish in the fourth slot, a computer in Chi­cago, its endless of sheets of data un­raveled by Parseghian, left no doubt ND was number one. Milestone. This year's 8-2 squad will also be remembered for bringing to Notre Dame its 500 gridiron victory, that against Georgia Tech. Moreover, Notre Dame's placement in the "top ten" this year was the fourth con-
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

seen live year it has placed that high. 
Not since the early fifties have ND 
teams been able to compile that many 
consecutive rankings. 
"Excluding the 1964 and 1966 

teams, one must go back to the 1954 
team," Ara reminded those at the 
banquet, "to find a Notre Dame team 
with a better record . . . and that is 
a long way back." 
Sponsored by the ND Club of St. Joseph Valley, the testimonial also brought forth next season's team lead­ers. Offensive tackle George Kunz, a junior from Arcadia, Calif, and sopho­more linebacker Bob Olson, from Superior, Wis. were elected co-cap­tains of die 1968 Fighting Irish. The latter will be the first junior to cap­tain a Notre Dame football team in fifty seasons, or since Leonard "Pete" Bahan headed the 1919 squad. 
"We're quite pleased with the new arrangement of co-captains," re­marked Parseghian. "It's more in keeping with the two-platoon system." 
Kunz, 6-5, 240, started the season at tight end and in the first two games caught seven passes for 101 yards. In­juries on the defensive and offensive teams required adjustments in both lineups and the resulting shake-up found Kunz playing offensive tackle for the remainder of the season. Olson, 6-0, 225, was one of the hardest hitting and one of the most frequent tacklers of the defensive unit. He led the squad in tackles with 98. Record breakers. The Irish continue to rewrite gridiron history at the Uni­versity with their 29 new marks in die record book. Moreover, in the four years Parseghian has been head coach, 80 records have been broken and eight have been tied. 
Terry Hanratty led the parade of record breakers mostly because of his performance against Purdue. That day he set individual single game marks for most passes attempted, 63 (John Huarte, old record, 37 against Stanford in 1964); most passes com­pleted, 29 (Huarte and Coley O'Brien, 21); most yards passing, 366 (George 
GEORGE KUNZ and BOB OLSON Leaders in '68. 

Izo, 322, against Pittsburgh in 1958); most rushing and passing plays, 75 (Huarte, 44 against Stanford in 1964); and most total offense yards, 420 (Paul Hornung, 354 against So. Cal. m 1955). 
This year's place-kicker Joe Azzaro wrote himself into the record books three times with his season's total of 61 points, Tnoif points scored by kick­ing (Ken Ivan, 48 points in 1965); his eight field goals this year (Ivan, seven in 1965); and jor most field goals made in a career, 13. 
Others whose performances have set a new pace in Notre Dame foot­ball are Tom Schoen, Jim Seymour, Jeff Zimmerman, Tom O'Leary and John Pergine. Departing Seniors. Captain Bob Bleier and Kevin Hardy head a list of 13 seniors who were regulars on this year's team and who will be graduating. Bleier, a regular halfback for the Irish for diree years, wound-up his playing days in the Georgia Tech game when he was injured with torn leg ligaments which forced him out of acdon against Miami. 
"A great runner, pass catcher and masterful team leader," Parseghian spoke of Bleier. "To this day neither I nor the doctors can understand how 
he played the second half of the Tech 
game with an injury which required 
surgery days later." 
And then to Hardy, Ara quipped, 
"We'll remember you most for that 
13-yard kick against Miami. Kevin 
was a master at kicking, believe me." 
On a serious note, Ara praised the defensive 6-5, 220 veteran who was the bulwark of the Irish "front four" for three years. 
Other departing seniors include Dave Haley, Dan Harshman, Dave Martin, Mike McGill, Tom O'Leary, John Pergine, Steve Quinn, Tom Schoen, Jim Smithberger and Dick Swatland. Awards and a Preview. Before the eve­ning came to a close three members of the team were honored by the stu­dent body and the National ND Monogram Club. To Jim Smithberger went the first annual "President's Award" presented by Student Body President Chris Murphy. The honor is for academic achievement and wth the plaque was presented a "book­case of the classics." 
Freshman coach Jolm Murphy, on behalf of all monogramers, announced the winners of this year's "most valu­able player" awards. The honors, voted iipon by members of the team, went to Terry Hanratty on offense and Tom Schoen from the defensive unit. 
With 1967 now history for Notre Dame football, what's up next for the Fighting Irish? 
"You know one of the sports\vriters brought that up to me after the Miami game," Ara chuckled. "We find our­selves starting up right where we left off . . . right in the thick of it." 
A mere glance at next fall's sched­ule will tell you all you need to know: Sept. 21—Oklahoma Sept. 28—Purdue Oct. 5—Iowa at Iowa City Oct. 12—^Northwestern Oct. 19—Illinois Oct. 26—^Mich. State at E. Lansing Nov. 2—Navy at Philadelphia Nov. 9—Pittsburgh Nov. 16—Georgia Tech Nov. 30—So. Cal at Los Angeles 
JEFF ZIAAMERMAN, KEVIN HARDY and TOM SCHOEN Bright young Irish to take up senior gap. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 19(57 DECEMBER £7 
COACH JOHNNY DEE Great basketball is a game called "unselfishness." 
730-DAY WONDERS 
W
HAT running the break has to do 
with the virtues of motherhood, 
only Johrmy Dee really knows. And 
only Notre Dame's head basketball 
coach can explain it. But somehow or 
other it fits into his philosophy for de­
veloping a contender at Notre Dame 
for the national basketball champion­
ship. And the feeling around Notre 
Dame is that he may be just a year or 
two away from doing just that. 
The grand plan began for J. F. Dee Jr. at X minus 730 days, March 2, 1966 to be exact. It was Saturday af­ternoon and the Fighting Irish had just lost its season's finale to Creigh­ton, closing the books with a 5-21 record. 
From that day on, when John Dee's hand-picked talent began to take the floor, the push was on to reverse the 1965-66 season and in two years to boost Notre Dame into the top ten collegiate basketball teams in the nation. 
The first half of reconstruction days on the old court of the fieldhouse might even be considered impressive. 
The Irish pulled themselves over the .500 mark by winning 14 and losing 
12. Bob Amzen (6-5 forward from F t Thomas, Ky.) totaled 597 points and so set a Notre Dame mark for most points scored by a sophomore. 
by the end of the season was averaging almost 20 points per game in addition to leading the team in rebounds. 
"When people look back to 1966," Dee explains, "they'll have to say that guys like Amzen and Whitmore were the ones who really turned the tide. These were the fellows, along with others, who were really willing to come here and start something great in basketball at Notre Dame." 
Now, in the early stages of the 1967­68 season, with junior Dwight Mur­phy joining Amzen and Whitmore as the three full-time returning regulars 

— also fondly called by Dee as the "first of the blue chippers" — Notre Dame's attomey-coach is looking for a 17-9 year. 
Coach Dee, an active lawyer who last year was admitted to practice in the US Supreme Court, feels "so long as we keep that right column in a single figure, it'll be a good year." 
Pausing for a second he goes on: "But, I'll really be disappointed if 
Next behind him in scoring was an­SiNNOTT, CARR, PLEICK and JONES other sophomore. Bob Whitmore, who Latest to cast lots. 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1967 DECEMBER 

we don't get a berth in a national tournament. That's what the kids are really working for." 
To make the NCAA tournament or the National Invitational Tourna­ment, the Irish must pull do\vn a Midwest "at large" bid. This means fighting it out mth other indepen­dents such as Dayton, Xavier, Loyola, Detroit, Marquette and De Paul. The two or three teams with the best rec­ords are usually invited. 
Dee is looking to several other vet­erans as well as this year's sophomores to give the team a \vinning combina­tion. Junior guard Jim Derrig and senior forward Jim McKirchy are likely candidates for the two remain­ing starting positions. Their strongest competition will come from sopho­mores Mike O'Connell, a guard, and John Gallagher, a fonvard. Gallagher topped the frosh in scoring last year with a 22.3 average while O'Connell is probably the top ball handler on the squad. 
This year's prospects are not the only things Johnny Dee is willing to talk about. He'll even look a little in the future and talk about "the new facility," referring to Notre Dame's $8 million Athletic and Convocation Center. There in early December, 1968, the massive structure will offi­cially be opened. Johnny Dee and his cagers will be the main attraction as they entertain the UCLA Bruins and Mr. Lew Alcindor. 
With equal pride, the Coach also points to this year's freshman team. 
"We think that in this class we have one of the finest groups of high school ball players ever assembled." 
Among these future Notre Dame stars are Austin Carr (6-3 from Wash­ington, D.C.) who last year was voted the "outstanding high school basket­ball player" in the nation by Scholas­tic magazine. 
Other five-year men, all of whom gained either national or state-wide recognition, include Collis Jones (6-8 from Washington, D.C) , Jackie Mee­han (6-0 from Philadelphia), Tom Sinnott (6-4 from Elizabeth, N.J.), John Pleick (6-9 from Los Angeles) and Jim Hinga (6-4 from Muncie, Ind.). 
These recruits lived up to their prep-school billings when in presea­son play they whipped the varsity in seven out of eight regular ball games. Carr provided just about all the gas the freshmen needed as he aver­aged 34 points per game. 
"I just can't believe this is happen­ing to me," Dee thinks to himself. "Something's going to happen to me between now and next year. I'm going to get an ulcer or something." 
ALUMNUS NOVEMBER 1947 DECEMBER 
1967.^8 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
De c 2 — ST. JOSEPH'S COLLEGE (Ind.) 
Dec. 5 — Wisconsin at Madison 
De c 9 — LEWIS COLLEGE (2:30 p-m.) 
Dec 11 —SOUTHERN METHODIST 
Dec 14—ST. NORBERT 
Dec. 19 — Inciiana at Ft. Wayne 
Dec. 21 — Utah State at Logan 
Dec. 23 — UCLA at Los Angeles 
Dec. 28 — VILLA MADONNA COLLEGE 
De c 30 — Kcntuclcy at Louisville 
Jan. 3—KING'S COLLEGE (Pa.) 
Jan. 6 — Air Force Academy at Dem'cr 
Jan. 8 — Creighlon at Omaha 
Jan. 10—DETROIT 
Jan. 13 — DePaul at Chicago 
Jan. 17 — BUTLER 
Jan. 27 — Illinois at Chicago Stadium 
Jan. 30 — Michigan State at East Lansing 
Feb. 3 — Detroit at Detroit 
Feb. 6 — DEPAUL 
Feb. 10 — Duke at Chicago Stadium 
Feb. 13 — ST. JOHN'S 
Feb. 17 — Bradley at Chicago Stadium 
Feb. 22 — N.Y.U. at Madison Square Garden 
Feb. 27—VALPARAISO 
Mar. 2 — CREIGHTON (2.30 p.m.)— HOMECOMING 
And this is where the Irish coach, now beginning his fourth season at the University, reveals his secret of success. 
"It's amazing how all of these kids come from the same kind of home, the same kind of background. I've often thought to myself what a great thing it would be if I could put all 19 or 20 of these kids' mothers up on a stage." 
He then e.xplains, "For some reason or other, I've always felt that basket­ball players reflected their mothers more than their fathers. To be a great basketball player, you've got to be unselfish. If a guy is not unselfish, he's not going to amount to much of a player. All the ingredients for making a good home, a good mother, are the same in a great ballplayer. And you better believe I've got the greatest bunch of mothers you've ever met" 
This, then is how running the break, blue chippers, turning the tide and all the virtues associated -with mother­hood fit together in a rather fascinat­ing pattern for winning basketball games. 
With 365 days to go and all the necessary ingredients in hand, Johnny Dee is marching for home. 
BOB WHITMORE 

DWIGHT MURPHY BOB ARNZEN First of the blue chippers. 
Mr. Francis P. Clark Head. Microfilming & Photo,. Lab. .-Mamorial Library -Jjai. 46556 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 

THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 HONORARY PRESIDENT AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 PRESIDENT JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 VICE-PRESIDENT THOMAS W . CARROLL '51 VICE-PRESIDENT CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47 VICE-PRESIDENT ,.y JAMES D. COONEY '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 
JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 NOMINATIONS RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 19965 BRIARCLIFF DETROIT, MICH. 48221 
THOMAS V/. CARROLL '51 NOMINATIONS PLACEMENT 214 W. 20th HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 EXECUTIVE SHERATON-PEABODY HOTEL 149 UNION AVE. MEMPHIS, TENN. 38103 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS CONTINUING EDUCATION 73 MT. WAYTE AVE. FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01702 
DIRECTORS TO 1969 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH "27 BUDGET 3445 ORDV/AY ST., N.W. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 
WILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. '40 ADMISSIONS 1108 EMILIEST. GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 
RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '54 PUBLIC RELATIONS AND 
DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS P.O. BOX 200 SOUTH BEND, IND. 46624 
LEO V. TURGEON '42 ATHLETIC SUITE 107 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 3731 STOCKERST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
DIREaORS TO 1970 
EDWARD G. CANTWELL '24 700 BINNS BLVD. COLUMBUS, OHIO 43204 . 
EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK '54 5 THE MAPLES ROSLYN ESTATES, N.Y. 11576 
JOHN J. REIDY '27 11850EDGEWATERDR. LAKEWOOD, OHIO 44107 
LEONARD H. SKOGLUND '38 426 DOVER AVE. 
MAGAZINE STAFF 

JAMES D. COONEY "59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY JOHN P. THURIN '59 EDITOR JUNE SHASSERE RICHARD RILEY '68 EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. BRUCE HARLAN '49 
CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD STEVENS '51 PETER McGRATH '70 RICHARD HUNT '69 DON DEMPSEY '71 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 

ai MMmm 
LAGRANGE PARK, ILL. 60525 






