The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
•^:W^;p--A ^n),v!«<^^r';--,-.->rr-
NOTRE DAME 
SEPTEMBER iO70 
\ 
m­
mmj^-\ 
,^:-.«;-|.. 

'M^­
Is footbaU dead? 
My long lost classmate, Harvey, and I sat in the University Club one afternoon when he was in town and discussed the future of big time college football. 
"Big time football is dead," Harvey pronounced. "What makes you say that?" I asked. 
"It's just not 'in' any more with the students," Harvey said. "They want love, not war. And football is just another example of man committing violence upon his fel­low human beings. Look at the headlines. College players are cut­ting practice to march in peace demonstrations. Even professional footballers are giving up the game to live in communes. Football is a dying sport and I think it's about time." 
"But football has some good points," I argued. "It allows stu­dents to act out their violent ten­dencies within the system. They can shout, parade, demonstrate and not get busted by the cops. It's good for alumni, too. You know. When you go into the office on Monday morning after a big win and collect the five bucks bet from the creep who's been mouth­ing off to you all week long. It's good for the old psyche." 
"Well, that may be true of the old-timers," Harvey said. "But the NOW generation doesn't go for that old power substitution syn­drome any more. They know where it's at. And it's not on the gridiron." 
"I certainly haven't noticed a drop in attendance in the student sections," I countered. "So the 
game must attract them. 
"Haven't you heard?" Harvey said. "If you turn on at half time, while the band is playing, ifs a real mind bender. Outtasite!" 
I could see Harvey was not a strict constructionist, so I tried an approach more relevant, meaning­ful, in tune with the times. "Look. Football can have vast socio­economic impact. Take what ND did with the money it received for playing in the Cotton Bawl. The University put it into a scholarship fund for minority students who would never have the chance to come here to school. 


"Ha!" Harvey snorted. "What positions will they play?" 
Harvey's shell of cynicism was too tough to crack. So the con­versation turned to other times, when we were students 10 years ago. 
"Remember," Harvey laughed, "when the team lost eight straght games and we stood in the stands and chanted 'Burn the books!' We almost had a riot outside Corby Hall. Can you imagine? A riot over losing some football games?" 

"Yes, those were the days," I said. "Morning checks, lights out, no booze on campus (legally)." 
"They sure were," Harvey agreed. 
Since we finally reached an ac­cord on something, we decided to part friends. While shaking hands, Harvey said: "By the way, can you get me two tickets to the Purdue game?" 


-rr^ 

FEATURES  
1  SEASON '70  
9  SWITCHED ON ARGONNE  
12  SIFTING THE SANDS OF EDUCATION  
DEPARTMENTS  

15  ALUMNI SPEAK  
16  NDNEWS  
19  CLASS NEWS  
44  


CLUB NEWS  36  
GRADUATE SCHOOLS  41  
ON RECORD  43  
ALUMNI ASK  

YoL 48 No. 5 Septe^MT, 197* 
James D. Cooner '59 
EncimvB SUBZIWT 
ALimm AssocunoN Editor Timotlir J. Hughes '61 
UAICiWIHO EUTW 
Geofge A. Schcucr '28 
Caar Corr Emot BiU Hitdidl '71 
EDinaui. AssisTAMT M. Brace Harian'49 
CHIZV I^onourHzx 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICEKS 
Leonard H. Skoglnnd '38 HoMOUKV Ftaamtm 
DofiaU F. O'Brien '42 
VusaatT 
Walter H . Langfoid '30 
VKz-nnsnon 
W. Jerome Kane '38 
Vics-nusneMT Francis J. Wilson '28 
VfCB-nEsmorr James D. Cooner 'SS 
ExzcunvE SioiEriUtr 
Micliael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT SZOETAKY 
DnECTCMSTO U71 
W. Jenme Kane '38 (CLUB AcnvmEs) P.O. Box 3707, Seatde, Wash. 98124 Walter M. Langford '30 (CLASS Acnvmzs) 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 (ExEcimvz ANS NOMIHATIOIIS) 1113 Rocky Rhrer Kd., Houston, Tex. 77027 
Leonard H. Slraghmd '38 (SENATE AcnvmEs] 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange Fluk, HI. 60525 
Frands J. Wilson '28 (Pinuc RELATIONS AND DBVELOPHEHT) 61(6 Howe St., Fitts­hmgfa, Rt. 15206 
MKECIOKSTO 1972 
Robert A. Eifcins '37 (FtACEWNT, Aians­sioNs) P.O. Box 546, Buhl. Idaho 83316 John T. 1tf»»«mjii >52 (FACDLTT RELATIONS] 3917 Bnadmr. Kansas Gtr, Mo. 64111 
Frank L. UcGinn '52 (AcAsewc AIEABS, RELIOIOH ft CmzENSHir) 900 BUK., Rimpano Beach, Fla. 33062 
Robert h. McGoMrick '56 (CONTINDINO EoDCAiioN, STIHIENT AFFAIXS] 15 Drurr Lane, West Hartfoid, Conn. 06117 
Leooud H. To«e '37 (ATHLETIO] 64 W . 4th St, Bii^port, Pa. 19405 
MKECIOSSTO 1973 
Daniel D. Canale '42, 1325 Commerce Title Bk^., Memphk, Tenn. 38103 
Dr. John C. Lungren '38, 4180 Chestnut 
Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90607 James C. MacDeritt '35. 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 JoKph T. O'Nan '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Kuil. Minn. 55102 John R. Rmem '49, 17549 Kiikshiie, Bir­mii^iam, Mich. 48009 1970 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, UniveistT of 
Notre Dame, aS ri^ts reserved. Reproduc* 
tioB ^itt «^olc or m part without written 
is prohibited. The Notre Dune ALUMNUS is pufalidied 
motttUf, except January, Man^, Mar* 
Angnst and November, by the Univenitr oi 
Notre Dame. Secood-dass postage paid at 
Notre Dune, Ltd. 46556. 

Season ^70 
By Tim Hughes 

Sixty thoosnd throaty roan mU greet the piaycn aad coaches the frst footbaH Satarday at ND Stadhui as tiwy chaige tiaoagh tiie taaad aad oato WA tut. If s aa electric aio­ment Hie ghosts of fooOaB past col­lide with the great expectatioas of today. The baad bfaares the Vlctmy March. On the fdd, the team wmrns ap aad footbds lat 'thro«gh the air. Students practice tassing a few pre­liaiinary rolls of ticker tape, pnhipr] in anticqiation of toachdowns to come, bid grads loosen mp on their version of coffee^ H<9e of victory warms each heart as the piaycn Une ap to start the game. 
flmeont! 

Did yon ever stop to thiak what it takes to get those 22 piaycn oat on that fidd of grass—grass so wdl kept that it wonM pot the average home­owner to shame. Yes, might MMM the answer. H W playen practice hard. The coaches spend long hours dream­ing np ways to make the offense go, the defense htM. But the answer is 

Photos by Bruce Harian 
not that caqr. The JUVILU of as ritimalii 25M people a n Mcdei to pat on a foolbal gHM in ND StaOaak 
To get iaia the (am^ y«a?Vc fat to have a tidwt ftijlt have to praccm orders, an ! them, triw thea at the gales. Even bcfefc that, to paric yonr car. Aad to direct tragi. Faa* aotorioasly haacqr—aat oa^^ fw vie­toiy, hat for faad. provide the hoMa^i i 
Reporters coaw to towa to write 
tat  
What folawi is the  of a  
few of thoae who wotk  the  
sceaes  to  197*  
areaHljr.  



The money man 
The man who puts it all together on the football weekend is Bob Cahill, business manager for athletics. He runs the show and perhaps more im­portantly holds the purse strings. He's responsible for the budgets of 18 de­partments totaling $1.97 million dol­lars. Football accounts for 3908,000 of this. And it pays its own way plus 99 percent of the operating expenses of the other sports. 
Football season makes Bob Cahill a harried, but essentially happy man. A heart condition has slowed him a little, but as long as his secretary re­minds him to take his pills he still goes strong. "I haven't attended a football game since I was a senior in 1933 that I didn't have some sort of re­sponsibility. I can't wait until I retire and come back here on a football weekend and complain about my tickets," he jokes. 
Cahill knows about tickets. He was the ticket manager since 1941, with three years out for service in the Navy during World War II. He started to work for the University, after he grad­uated in 1934, as an administrative assistant to Elmer Layden. 
"The ticket situation has evolved during the last few years," Cahill stated. "Now it is the alumni more than the non-graduates who make the greatest demand for. tickets. We are now graduating 1500 people a year." 
Parking for the games is another concern of his. There will be 10,000 automobiles driven to the Purdue game. And they have to be put some­where, skillfully guided to their des­tination. ND has a good reputation for handling football traffic. Some call it the "drive in stadium." 
Cahill is president-elect of the Col­lege Athletics Business Managers As­sociation and he says that every time he goes to a meeting he is asked how he solves his parking problem. He tells them that he doesn't have much of one, and it's due mostly to the work of one man, the late Earl "Pete" Redden. He began handling the park­ing concession for ND in the early years of its football fame. And the family business still does. "The great cooperation between city, county and state police and the help of the South Bend Fire Department is due to the work of Pete Redden. He got them together and they have worked in close harmony ever since. 
Cahill meets with law enforcement people once a year to outline any changes in routes or procedures. There are perhaps 300 men involved in mov­ing traffic on a game weekend. 
The 600 ushers and gatemen at the stadium are also under Cahill's super­vision. They are all volunteers, and the group totals 800 members. "One of our men moved to Nebraska, but he still comes back every football week­end to work the game," Cahill said. Not only are the men not paid (except for supervisory personnel), they have to put a deposit down on their yellow caps. "Some of the men have been doing this job for 30 years or more and are men of substantial income." When an usher "retires" after lengthy service, his pension is a gold card that will admit him to any ND home game he wants to attend. 
Cahill also travels with the team. He must arrange for transportation of team and staff. Reserve hotel accom­modations. Make sure the team gets to the stadium on time for the game. The trip to Los Angeles for the South­ern California game, for example, will cost an estimated 522,000. 
If Bob Cahill's hair is sprinkled with gray, last year's Cotton Bowl could have had something to do with it. He had to make arrangements for 200 people on the 10-day trip. These in­cluded team, administration, coaching staff and families. Since the players stayed on campus four days after Christmas vacation began. Bob had to arrange for their travel to their homes. Then their transportation to Dallas. Things were a little better on the re­turn trip. Since the campus was the common destination, he was able to charter a plane to bring the team home. While the team, the staff and the administration went home. Bob stayed several more days in Dallas. Doing what? Checking the hotel bill, of course. 

Ticket trauwna 
The football season opens on June 20 
for Don Bouffard, the ticket manager. 
That's when the advance sale of tick­
ets to alumni begins. This year, he 
mailed applications to 20,000 con­
tributors to the alumni fund. He's the 
guy who gets grumbled at when a 
faithful fan comes up empty in a lot­
tery. There were a lot of grumbles in 
the vicinity of Missouri this year. 
"We had to turn back $20,000 worth 
of applications," he sighed. The Uni­
versity's allotment was a mere SOOO 
tickets, what ND gives visiting schools. 
The Missouri game wasn't the big­
gest turnback, however. More than 
$60,000.in orders were returned be­
fore the Purdue game last year. And 
the biggest disappointment was heard 
before the Michigan State game in 
1966 when $100,000 worth of appli­
cations were returned to unlucky Irish. 
Bouffard, a 1966 graduate, became 
ticket manager last year when Bob 
Cahill became business manager, suc­
ceeding the late Herb Jones. He has 
a staff of two mail assistants, two per­
sona] secretaries, eight staff members 
and four to five summer employees. 
The staff keeps a record of every ticket sold. They are arranged alpha­betically. "If a person leaves his tick­ets home," Bouffard says, "he can come to the office and we will issue a duplicate set" It sometimes hap­pens that tickets are stolen in the mail. Usually an unsuspecting third party has purchased the tickets, according to Bouffard. "We try to find the third party another ticket," Bouffard stated. "But if it's a sellout, they're out of luck." 
There are no longer any new season tickets to be had. "Season ticket sales were frozen in 1967 at the request of the Alumni Board, so that more tick­ets could be made available to alum­ni," Bouffard said. 
Before any tickets are mailed, they are carefully counted and checked for any errors or duplications. 

Orders for football tickets are some­what down this year compared to others, according to Bouffard. He blames it on the general economic condition of the country. But that doesn't mean he's not busy. "We're not just in the business of selling foot­ball tickets any more," he says, mo­tioning toward the vast expanse of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Show business has come to Notre Dame—from Lawrence Welk to the Three Dog Night. Even the Ringling Brothers Bamum and Bailey Circus. 

The press 
While Joe Theismann is scrambling from the clutches of defensive line­men on the field, there's another scrambler up in the press box. He's Roger Valdiserri, the sports informa­tion director. His job is to keep the 75 or 100 reporters and broadcasters happy with reams of statistics and other detailed information on the bat­tle below. 
In this dawning age of liberated women, the ND press box may be the last refuge of male supremacy. No women are allowed, except the ladies who operate the teletype machines. "Even visitors are not allowed in the box," Valdiserri states. "People are up there to work and they must have the proper atmosphere." 
There are perhaps 250 people in the press box during a game, includ­ing reporters, broadcasters, coaches, scouts of upcoming opponents and his own staff of 12 turning out mimeo­graphed sheets capsulizing the action on the field. 
Valdiserri is also in charge of a film crew that shoots the annual high­lights footage and a TV crew of about 20 that shows the game Sunday mornings on national television. "That's about the only time I ever get to see the games," says Roger. "I'm usually trying to help somebody out and miss the big plays." 
During the week before a home game, Valdiserri is besieged with re­quests firom major papers, radio and TV networks for interviews with coaches and players. "We average about 15 requests per game," Roger said. One of the biggest demsinds came before the Michigan State game in 1966, the year of the 10-10 tie. And he hopes there will not be an­other two weeks like it. "There was too much emphasis on that game by the press. It was all out of proportion as to what a college game should be." 
But the biggest work load came, before the Cotton Bowl. "It was al­most like a whole season compressed into two weeks." Requests for inter­views multiplied, special promotional material and fact sheets had to be produced. 
Valdiserri also oversees the publi­cation of programs. And he's proud of ND's sales record. "We have had good success with our programs. We sell one for every 2.5 customers. The national average is one for every four. There is a certain souvenir value at­tached to the Notre Dame program, I guess. We have people who write 
in for them, if they can't get to the 
game. Some people have been col­
lecting them for the last 20 or 30 
years." 

Dominick J. Napolitano, commonly 
known as Nappy, is in charge of the 
program sales. He has a crew of 
about 50 youngsters peddling the pro­
grams outside the stadium. 

Roger's scrambling is not limited to the press box and ND. He travels with the team and haunts visiting press boxes as well. And at home he never leaves the press box until the last reporter has written the last word of his story. That sometimes can be as late as 7:30 p.m., long after the echoes of football Saturday have faded. 

Equipment 

Every ND football game is an away game for Gene O'Neill, the equip­ment manager for football. It all started when the Athletic and Con­vocation Center was completed. The team's locker room was moved from beneath the Stadium over to more spacious and carpeted quarters in the ACC. Now, for every game, he has to pack up gear for the 70 players dressing for the game and cart it over to the Stadium dressing room across the street. 
That means 70 helmets, 70 jerseys, 70 pants, 140 shoes and assorted other paraphernalia that a player wears. Fortunately, Gene has the aid of 70­some student managers who help get the job done. 

The equipment that goes into keep­ing a player as injury-free as possible can add up to a lot of money. Hel­mets range from $28 to $35. A pair of shoes can cost $25. The players have two types of shoes. One with short cleats for practice and the regu­lar ones for the game. Also, this year for the first time, ND will be playing on artificial turf—at Michigan State. So special shoes had to be purchased for the occasion. The well-dressed player, when he trots onto the play­ing field, is wearing a uniform valued at approximately $160 — not much more than the price of a good suit these days. 
For the long-distance away games, O'Neill must make sure that every­thing gets on the truck which is usu­ally taken to the airport for loading on the plane. 
A football game can't be played without the ball. And Gene O'Neill makes sure there's one available at all times. He orders a "gross" every year before the season starts. 
Fans in the end zone may wish for some high scoring. Balls that go into the end zone on extra points or field goals will not be retrieved by student managers. This new policy is a source of joy for student managers, who often faced hostile reactions to their pleas. But with footballs selling for $28 each. University accountants will be cheering for the defense. 

The student managers 
One who is happy not going into the stands to retrieve footballs is Jim McGraw, head student manager. He will supervise a team of 70-75 man­agers this year. There are six other senior managers, 11 juniors, 25 sopho­mores and an expected 40 to 50 freshmen, who will work long hours for nothing in hopes of three years hence getting Jim McGraw's job. With it comes a full tuition scholarship and a work-week that totals nearly 60 hours. 
The head manager answers to Ara during football season. On the night before the game he makes out a duty roster for the 40 managers that will work the game. He stays with the team at Moreau Seminary the night before the game, orders the food for the night and for the halftime of the game. 
If you notice that the ND helmets have a special glow on game day, it doesn't have anything to do with God being on their side. The managers spray paint them before every game. Some schools have two sets of hel­mets, one for practice and one for the game. ND has only one. The reason­ing is that the players like to get used to one helmet. Another is that it cuts costs. 
There are two other senior man­agers working with McGraw in the football operation — Pat McFadden and Ray Roberts. These managers, along with selected juniors, travel with the team for away games. "And sometimes other juniors will come to the games on their own to help out," McGraw said. 
On the road, managers must make night checks on the players, wake them up in the morning, make sure players get room keys and handle a myriad of other details. On long plane trips they are even pressed into ser­vice by helping the stewardesses serve meals or snacks. 
"The student managers are abso­lutely essential to us," said Bob Cahill, remarking about the organizational structure of the athletic department. 
About his long working hours, Mc­Graw said, "A lot of times I thought it was too much and I couldn't keep up with my studies, but somehow I managed to pull through. And I'm glad I did." The accounting major from Cincinnati hopes to attend law school. He is in Air Force ROTC. 
This year is unique in the student manager set up. Those managers who stick it out through their sophomore year are finally reduced to 11. How­ever, Jim's class returned only seven managers. That meant that some had to cover extra sports. He feels that the ND program is a good one. "Some­body made a study of student manager operations around the country and came to the conclusion that Harvard had the best. But I don't agree." 
The 


groundskeeper 
When the teams amble onto the field, there must be a twinge of despair in Harold "Benny" BenninghofFs heart. It's not that he doesn't think ND isn't going to win. But their cleats are tearing at the very fiber of the man. Benny is the person who makes sure ND sod is green and free from crab­grass. Any homeowner would be proud to have a lawn as lush. But most lawns don't have the thundering hordes trample it. Maybe a touch football game once in a while. But not this. 
"It rained hard one game last year," Benny recalled. "And you could see the grass sink and the mud rise." It must have been a tragic sight for Benny. He starts his work in early spring. The 80,000 square-foot grid­iron is fertilized every six weeks. It may be reseeded with Marion grass. The sidelines were resodded this year. 
The lines are marked with a water-based latex paint. The world's largest leprechaun gracing the south end zone is also Benny's responsibility. 
Benny won't have to worry about the stadium collapsing this year. Major remodeling has begun. The University had to spend $206,000 shoring up the support beams in the concourse on the stadium's west side. Also those sitting on the west side 12 sections will be treated to new redwood seats—and perhaps some splinters if they're not careful. The work cost $140,000 and the other sections will be finished by next season. The concrete in the stadium is also being sealed with a special coating that will prevent water from seeping down into the concourse. 
The day after the game, Benny must be at the stadium for cleanup. It takes 30 men about four and a half hours to sweep away the debris. 
Then Bennie begins the sad task of patching up his battle-scarred lawn. 
.«i I If'. 
tn^tlH^ 
^^ ^^^^ ""^ 


Switched on inne 
, the.secKts of the atom. 
\J 


By Jean Horiszny 
It takes well over 100 tons of equip­
ment to track subatomic particles 
weighing less than a billion billionths 
of an ounce, according to Dr. John 
A. Poirier, professor of physics at ND. 
Poirier is supervising a group of seven faculty and graduate students working in a collaborative effort with Argonne National Laboratory to learn more about the powerful and elusive forces holding the atomic core together. Their effort to track down the tiniest fragments of matter known to man involves some of the largest and most complex equipment ever developed. 
The research team working at Argonne, an Atomic Engery Com­mission-owned laboratory near Chicago which provides cooperative research opportunities for 14 colleges and universities in the Midwest, include: Poirier, Dr. Oscar R. Sander, assistant professor of physics. Dr. Charles Rey, assistant professor of physics, William Rickoff, associate professional specialist of physics, and graduate students Sister Arlene Lennox, Joseph P. Prukop, George Theodosion, and Cheng-jean Chen. Argonne supplies the ND project with facilities, funds, advice and two "on­loan" physicists, Drs. Irwin Spirn and Russell Klem, assistant physicists in experimental planning and operations. 
Argonne, home of one of the world's largest proton accelerates, provides the researchers with a beam of high-energy protons to probe the atomic nucleus. The ND group uses this beam to produce mesons, some­what lighter, charged particles. With the aid of several 10 to 30-ton magnets, the meson beam is bent and focused on a target of liquid hydrogen cooled to —400 degrees. The products of the interactions between the mesons and the hydrogen are 
detected by some of the largest wire 
spark-chambers in the world, built 
last year at Notre Dame. 
The purpose of over 100 tons of equipment is to engineer a collision between a meson and a proton (the nucleus of the hyrogen atom), so that the physicists can observe the resulting products. By noting the angle and curvature of the particles before and after collision, they glean clues as to the nature of the inter­action. 
TTie spark-chambers are used to track the incoming beam of mesons and the particles produced in the collision. Each chamber is a closely-woven mesh of wire charged with a high voltage. When a particle strikes any wire, it sets off a spark which can be detected by the complex electronic equipment. The precise coordinates of the spark are fed into a nearby computer and stored on magnetic tape. The tape will be further analyzed during the coming year by ND's Univac computer. 
In order to collect any meaningful data, every piece of a complex array of equipment must function perfectly, Poirier explained. The most frustrating occupational hazard of the seven physicists is failure of the temperamental, delicate equipment designed to detect matter so small it can hardly be called matter at all. 
Among Poirier's recent headaches have been problems with the liquid hydrogen target; small, but ominous failures of the computer which determines the coordinates of the sparks, and a recent shut-down of the high-energy beam itself. These failures are not negligence, he explained, or even bad luck, but simply the daily fare of researchers in this frontier area of science. 
"Everyone seems to realize that if advances are made, they will be made here," Poirier said. "Progress in high-energy physics will be fed back into many other areas, including chemistry, biology and engineering, stimulating the entire scientific com­munity and perhaps leading to a new technology." 
Poirier added that the nuclear forces, both strong and weak, consti­tute two of the four forces, or attractions between objects, known to science. The other two—gravity and electro-magnetism—have been put to work in the service of man. But the nuclear forces have only begun to be exploited by technology, most dramatically in the explosion of the atomic bomb 25 years ago. 
At this point, he added, high-energy physics is at about the same point biology was 100 years ago— identifying and classifying objects. When the family of strange, tiny subatomic particles are identified and their interactions understood, means of applying the knowledge may develop. Poirier believes such ap­plications could revolutionize man's civilization, perhaps as much as the introduction of electricity 100 years ago. 
Other members of the physics department who are primarily interested in research using Argonne's 30-inch and 12-foot bubble chambers also contributed to the new spark-chamber experiment. They are: Dr. 
V. Paul Kenney, professor of physics. Dr. Neal Cason, associate professor of physics, Dr. William D. Shephard, associate professor of physics, Dr. Morton Farber, doctor of physics, and graduate students Victor Bierman, Ed Harrington, Bill Madden, James Powers and Pete Stuntebeck. 

Sifting tlie sands of education 

The following is an address by Father William A. Botziim CSC, associate dean of the Notre Dante Graduate School. He was speaking to the graduates of Summer Session 1970. but his words have meaning for ND graduates of any era. 
M N ANCIENT provcrb in the Pal­

•^^ estinian rabbinical schools of Christ's time divided all students into four classes. The first pair of these classes might be called the all-or-nonc groups. There was, first of all, the' Sponges, who absorbed everything imparted in the lectures without any exceptions, the details, the illustrations, as well as the principles. The second group was called the Funnels. For the Funnels information and instruction passed through minds without obstruction, and with no retention, in one ear and out the other. The second pair of groups might be called the discriminating students. The first of these two groups was known as the Strainers, students who let the good wine of the lectures run through, keeping only the dregs, that is, retaining only what was of secondary importance. And the last group was the Sifters, those students who kept everything important, passing over only what was negligible, the chaff. 
We cannot but speculate as to the future of you who have sifted well and successfully during your stay here at the University. As in the old proverb, we may classify our graduates into types based upon the attitudes which they adopt on two important matters: the University from which they have received the degree, and, secondly, the education therein received. 
In their attitude toward this Uni­versity graduates fall into four classes, similar in some ways, but also quite difi'erent, to those we have just mentioned. For the first group, called the Optimists, the University can do or has done no wrong. Like the Sponges, they accept everything. Faculty, campus, student body, all these leave nothing to be improved 
12 
N>^ 

^^.^'i M
.>&?? 
•«v^i"­
m m 
M
m

5R.­
Sm Ss^ 
-...-.rfXl^.'^i.-^ 

upon. The Optimists support the University in a general way, are proud to be graduates therefrom, but they cannot get enthusiastic about any of the University's projects, because the University is adequate enough as it is. 
r
HE SECOND of these classes might 
be entitled the Indifferent. The 
Indifferent are something like the 
Funnels: by no gesture, word, or 
action would the Indifferent ever 

admit that they have committed the 
indiscretion, it seems, of having 
graduated from the University 
of Notre Dame; they retain nothing 
from it. The University attracts 

them to its functions no more than it 
would draw other persons in the 

community. They are present at the 
University when its teams are top­
flight, when its concert artists are 
world-renowned, and when its 
lecturers are spectacular, famous, or 

fashionable. Alumni news. University 
announcements, college publications, 
are consistently stored in that 
circular file, commonly known as a 
wastepaper basket. Alma Mater 
means no more to them than an 

assembly line means to the automobile 
which rolls off it 

Corresponding to the Strainers, we have the Critics or the Fanners. 
F
OR THE Fanners, nothing is right at the University. They pan all decisions, criticize all policies; they predict a doleful future to all ventures; they paralyze all initiative. It seems as though they have retained from their experience with the University only the negative, the faulty, the defective — in a word, the dregs. They grasp nothing of its promise, its vision, its value, and its worth. 
The last class of students who adopt an attitude toward the University from which they have graduated are the Realists. Like the Optimists, the Realists are anxious to send worthy students here. Like the Critics, they diagnose needs in the University but they are anxious and willing to help remedy these deficiencies. They recognize that if the University is to have an ever-increasing influence upon the minds and characters of its students, and through them upon the com­munity, it must have the support, both financial and moral, of friends, and above all, of its alumni. They acknowledge that the social, academic, and even economic value of their degrees depends upon the prestige of the University that ccMifeis it. As the University of Notre Dame extends its reputation and enhances its glory, so do its degrees become increasingly valuable. These Realists then isolate and emphasize that which is valuable in the University; they are the Sifters. Today we hope that you graduates will become Realists to the fullest degree. 
•BUT THE University would be ''derelict of her duty, were she not concerned about the attitude which her graduates take toward their education. For some students, a college education is a terminal process, something finished cmce and for all, a dead end street which leads no farther. Or it might be considered, in their eyes, as the top of a mountain, scaled with difiiculty, with nothing beyond to conquer. For such graduates, too often a college education, even that aimed at an advanced degree, is a necessary evil, or a social necessity to achieve status and acceptance in certain circles, or an economic wedge by which one can obtain a job, a better position, or more salary. Now that it is completed, some graduates settle down to a state of intellectual and academic stagnation. They become educati(Mial vegetables, passively existing wherever God puts them. 
But there is another class of college graduates for whom a cc^ge edu­cation is a transitional process. 
a stage in life but not its conclusion. For them, education is like a priming of a pump, something that gets the flow of mental activity started, but a mental activity that will never cease until death does soul and body part. They recognize that college education is more like a freeway than a dead-end street, that it is a time in which one can fravel with the greatest speed, with the fewest obstructions, and a minimum of stop signs and traffic lights. But one does not stay on a freeway indefi­nitely, but must turn onto other streets where the travel is more difiicult, but nonetheless necessary and valuable, and life is lived. 
A university can only hope to impart a smattering of the inheritance of the ages, the wisdom of the race — the facts, the information, the concepts, and the principles which men have discovered and lived by. A Catholic university can only give the rudiments of that broad view of life and living which makes up our Faith; it can only take an education that is catholic—small c—in the scope of its interests and concerns, and make it also Catholic—large C— in its attitudes and values. 
S
KILLFUL expression; habits of thinking, judging and evaluating; attitudes and views of self, God, and the world about us: these the University can inaugurate, but they need to be strengthened and deepened, if we are to become truly educated men and women. The reading of books and magazines, the participation in study clubs, discus­sion and action groups, the enrollment at University courses, the cultivation of stimulating friends—these are some of the ways to continue on that lifelong process which we call education. 
It is our hope, today, that you may realize this ideal in your lives, that you may not only make a living, but may live, and live, as Christ wishes, ever more abundantly. 

in the fail 
By James D. Cooney, Executive 
Secretary, Alumni Assoc. 
"Will the campuses survive this fall?" The question has ominous overtones. It implies that something other than the humdrum academic routine is in store. The nation's athletic directors have already dropped a subtle hint to the media that they fear disruption of football games this autumn. A group of college presidents inter­viewed by Ladies Home Journal indicates continued unrest as the rule. 
There's no doubt that a large seg­ment of the Notre Dame student body is deeply concerned about a complexity of extra-University issues, such as the Indo-China involvement. They are issues that concern us all, but which especially affect the idealistic and impatient young who are searching for the meaning of things. The campus has become a natural locus for this concern. Enormous distress with the inequities and injustices of our time .. . intense frustration at the lack of institutional response to these difliculties .. . and the pervading sense that the "system" treats them as children .. . are ostensibly the causes of much campus dissent. 
Whether the inequities and injus­tices are going to worsen before they 

Transition ^70 
By Donald F. O'Brien, President, Alumni Association 
The first two-thirds of 1970 has brought precedent-breaking events to Notre Dame. 
January 1 saw the fulfillment of a dramatic change in the 45-year policy on postseason football. Fans nationwide were breathless over the spirited Cotton Bowl contest that returned ND to top prominence. 
Late in January, at our first Alumni Board meeting of the year, the officers of the University accepted our first-time-extended invitation and joined us in discussing matters of increasing mutual concern—campus ministry, student life and conduct, and campus security. 
During March the student body elected its first black president, Dave Krashna, a personable young junior from Pittsburgh, Pa., who enjoys wide student popularity and is rather widely known among the alumni. 
On May 1 a small group of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students improve, or whether the colleges and universities are going to single­handedly resolve these burning issues soon (or be burned in turn), remain to be seen. One thing is certain, however, fewer and fewer institutions of higher learning are treating this generation as juveniles. Witness developments of the past three years alone at Notre Dame: 
Nearly one million dollars has been spent renovating (and carpeting) the older residence halls. Two new high rises were built, allowing for substantial reduction in over-crowdedness. All halls now are virtually self-governing. Alcohol may be consumed in student rooms by those twenty-one or over. Upperclass­men may use automobiles if they wish. Students may entertain members of the opposite sex in their rooms each weekend during specified hours. Morning checks, weekend sign-outs and other vestiges of "in loco parentis" went out in the early '60's. 
The pass-fail system (no grade) has been instituted for non major courses. The number of class cuts possible is now left to the discretion of the professor. Co-education at Notre Dame is a limited but growing reality under the label of Co-Exchange with St. Mary's College. Minority enrollment has doubled in three years. 
(joined by outsiders) attempted to disrupt the spring meeting of the Board of Trustees. While the attempt was only partially successful, it was embarrassing for all concerned. Hopefully, it will be the first and last incident of its kind. 
The following week brought the Kent State tragedy and campus turmoil throughout the nation in reaction to U.S. military action in Cambodia. At ND, 1(X) Alumni Board and Senate members who had gathered for their annual joint meeting noted with pride that students reacted rationally and with deep religious conviction. The Senators set a precedent in sharing student life in the residence halls, and came away with new respect for the intelligence, sincerity and open-mind­edness of our young alumni-to-be. At the conclusion of our session, the Senate joined the Board in a state­ment commending Father Hesburgh, the administrators, faculty and students for the positive and exem­plary manner in which the ND community had expressed its con­victions during that week of crisis A Black Studies program will be launched this fall. Course-Teacher evaluation booklets are compiled and circulated by students annually. 
Students hold one-third of the seats on the Student Life Council, a legis­lative body with authority in all matters relating to the non-academic lives of students. They are fiilly represented in the newly created University Forum. The Board of Trustees has invited students to sit, with fiill voice and vote, on its Committee on Student Affairs. And, as Father Hesbur^ pointed out this summer, some of the recent admin­istrative changes "respond effectively to some of the real questions raised by the Chancellor-F^ident dis­cussion" initiated by students last spring. 
The majority of these develop­ments the past three years were requested (often demanded) by stu­dents on grounds that the changes would enhance their social, academic and spiritual development. Notre Dame responded, albeit reluctantly at times. There are now, as we see it, few obstacles remaining which would deter ND students from functioning as adults this fall and beyond. The University's approach has been to grant responsibility where and when it's due. If that doesn't work, what then? 
elsewhere. 
Senior Class president and new alumnus John Crawford of Munster, Ind., broke a 125-year tradition on June 7 by becoming the first student to deliver a commencement address at Notre Dame. He received a resounding ovation for his meamngful message to his class and to his elders. 
At midsummer. President Hesburgh announced a number of administrative changes which could have major significance. For the first time in its history, Notre Dame has an office of provost, filled by Rev. James Burtchaell CSC. 
This semester, covering the last four months of 1970, can be a period of major importance for ND. It must be more than just another successful football season. It must be a time for reappraisal and realignment, clear objectives and clearer com­munications, and steadfast leadership in all components of the University —trustees, administrators, faculty, students and alumni. All who love Notre Dame should work and pray for that 
September 1970 


ND NEWS 
IVAME FR. SHEEUY TO THEOLOGY POST 
The Rev. Charles E. Sheedy CSC, 
dean of theological studies and 
institutes at the University of Notre 
Dame, will serve as acting head 
of the University's department of 
theology during the 1970-71 
academic year. 
Father Sheedy, former dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters at 
Notre Dame, will assume a position 
vacated when the Rev. James T. 
Burtchaell CSC was appointed provost 
of the University last month. 
He headed Notre Dame's theology department from 1950 to 1952, when he was appointed liberal arts dean, a post he held until his appointment as dean of theological studies and institutes last year. 
Father Sheedy will continue in his theological deanship duties and also as chairman of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's committee on inter-institutional cooperation. The Rev. Francis B. Sullivan CPPS will continue as assistant chairman in the theology department. 
Also announced were the names of nine professors joining the depart­ment, including two Protestant ministers. They are: The Rev. Leonard Biallas CSC, who has com­pleted his S.T.D. at the Institut Catholique de Paris and joins the department as an assistant professor. Dr. Joseph Blenkinsopp, a well-known Old Testament scholar who formerly taught at Notre Dame and returns as an associate professor. A husband-and-wife team, Francis and Elisabeth Fiorenza. Mrs. Fiorenza holds a doctorate in theology from Munster in Germany and her husband, a Kent Fellow, is completing his dissertation there. Dr. Staidey 
M. Hauerwas, a visiting assistant professor in theological ethics. A Methodist, he formerly taught at Augustana College, Rock Island, HI. The Rev. Tjaard G. Hommes, an ordained minister of the United Church of Christ who will direct Notre Dame's new doctoral program in pastoral theology. He earned his doctorate in theology at Harvard Divinity School and was chairman of field education in the Boston Theological Institute. 

The Rev. Horace D. Hummel, a Lutheran minister who haids a Ph.D. in semitics and archeology firom Johns Hopkins Univernty and formerly taught at the Lutheran School of Theology in Chicago and at Wartburg Seminary and Concordia Seminary in Dubuque, Iowa. The Rev. Donald McNeill CSC, who is finishing his doctoral studies at Princeton Theological Seminary and returns as an assistant professor of pastoral theology in a department where he served in 1966-67. The Rev. John Quinn, a priest of the Arch­diocese of New York, who is finishing his doctoral studies at Notre Dame in liturgy and will be an assistant professor. 
MORRiS iNN RENOVATtOlV SET 
Kitchen and dining capacity of the campus hotel, the Morris Inn, will be doubled by a major renovation to be completed by March. 
The improvements, the most exten­sive in the 18-year history of the hotel, also will add a cocktail lounge adjacent to the restaurant and will involve renovation of all rooms, corridors, private dining facilities and the main lobby, according to John Rush, manager. 
There will be no increase in the number of rooms, which will remain at 90. All facilities will be open during the construction period. 
A major factor in the decision to expand the Inn's facilities is its relation to the Center for Continuing Education, said Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice president and treasurer of the University. The Inn provides housing and food service for delegates to meetings and seminars in the Center. Fr. Joyce praised the foresight of the late Ernest.M. Morris, a 1906 alumnus, ND trustee, and former chairman of the board of the Associates Investment Co., who envisioned the Inn and gave ND $1 million to build the structure in 19S2. 
Kitchen and dining room expan­sion will be to the west in an area now occupied by a putting green. The redesigned dining area will be three-tiered and have alcoves for semi­private meals. Seating will be increased from 95 to 200 and the lounge, which now seats 40 and is located below the main dining floor, will be moved adjacent to the new dining room and will provide service for 75 persons. 
WILLEMIN NAMED 


PLACEMENT HEAD 
The new director of placement at ND is Richard D. Willemin, a native of Detroit who has been director of the developmental reading program at the University. 
James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and development, announced the appointment of Willemin to succeed Rev. Louis J. Thornton CSC who retired Aug. 1 after 14 years in the position. 
Willemin joined the University's testing and guidance bureau in 1947 after four years in the Air Force and helped to establish the freshman testing program for evaluating and counseling purposes. He did graduate work at the U. of Chicago and in 1953 he initiated ND's developmental reading program. Since 1955 he also has directed a summer "reading­writing-study skills" program for high school juniors and seniors which enrolled about 70 students each simimer. 
ROSSIXM WiXS PRiESTLEY MEDAL 
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice-president of research and sponsored programs at ND, has won the highest award of the American Chemical Society, the Priestley Medal. In announcing the award. Chemical and Engineering News, ofiicial organ of the society, said Rossini's painstaking compilation of chemical data has laid the foundation of work in a variety of fields. 
"There are Nobel laureates who may well owe Dr. Rossini a real debt as one of their invisible co-workers," the News said. 
Dr. Rossini has served ND for 10 years, as dean of the College of Science, as associate dean of the graduate school and, since 1967, as vice-president of research. He has 
Sqptonlmr 1970 




NDNEWS 
authored 228 publications, including 
eight books. Recently he launched 
the Industrial Associates Program designed to promote interaction between ND and industry. 
FA. TOOHEYGETS 
NEW CAMPUS POST 
Rev. WilUam A. Toohey CSC '52 has been appointed director of campus ministry succeeding Rev. Joseph H. Fey CSC '47 who was named pastor of Sacred Heart Parish. 
The change in title from "Univer­sity chaplain" to "director of campus ministry" is meant to convey the fact that the whole ND community is involved in ministry, not just its clerical and religious members, ac­cording to Fr. Toohey. 
"There should be at ND a ministry of the whole community— men and women, religious and lay persons, faculty and students—^to itself in much the same way as family members minister to one another," he said. 
Fr. Toohey, a native of Racine, Wis., entered the Holy Cross novitiate in 1955 following two years as an officer in the Marine Corps. 
He studied theology at Holy Cross College in Washington, D.C., and was ordained in 1961. After teaching summer sessions at ND he served as vice president and professor at Holy Cross. Fr. Toohey holds an 
M.A. in public speaking from North­western U. His specialty has been homiletics which he has tau^t both 
at ND and Moreau Seminary. 
He has edited one book in the iield of homiletics while writing two others, "Rebuilding Faith: Values that Endure" and "Free at Last: The Christian Odyssey." 
Assisting as University chiq^ains will be 40 priests and two brothers who are rectors and assistant rectors in ND's 21 residence halls as well as their student assistants. Two of the priests. Rev. Robert Griffin CSC and Rev. Thomas Tallarida CSC '47, will be fuUtime chaplains. 
Eivei^rEERinrci ADVISOR NAMED 
F. C. Shadley '48, vice-president and general manager of Avco Electronics Division, Cincinnati, Ohio, has been appointed to the ND Advisory Council for the College of Engineering. Shadley has been with Avco since 1951. He attended and taught at U.S. Navy radio material schools during World War II and received aii M.S. in applied physics from Harvard U. in 1949. 
Shadley in 1968 served as Greater Cincinnati area chairman of the ND SUMMA program during which his organization doubled its quota. 
NO GRANTS TOTAL 

^a.4MMLLiON 
Gifts and grants totaling $8.4 millifni were received by ND during the fiscal year ending June 30, according to a report issued by Dr. Frederick 
D. Rossini, vice-president for research and sponsored programs. 
Awards dipped by $0.9 million from last year's total of $9.3 million, with almost all of the cuts coming in the University's research efforts, especially in the College of Science. ND is among many universities and laboratories hit by a general decline in government support for basic scientific research, according to Rossini. 
Total grants decreased by 9.9 per cent, with cutbacks in the College of Science about 30 per cent How­ever, the college still received the largest sin^e sum—$2,465,414— to support research, new facilities and equipment, and educati<MiaI and aervioe programs. 
The second largest sum, $1,332,000, went to the Radiatioa Laboratory. It was given by the Atomic Energy Coounissim. 
Government grants accounted for 77 per cent of the total awards, a decrease from last year's hi ^ of 87 per cent Funds bom industry, groups, individuals, foundations and philanthiopic organizations made up the remaining contributions and have increased by almost SO per cent —to $1.9 millioii—over last year. 
Even with the significant dip in suf^rt of research projects by government agencies, fimding of Uni­versity projects remains well above levels of two years ago, when grants totaled $7.1 million. 
JOB TRAINIHTG PROGRAM GIVEN 


|^3S,I4I BY 1J.S. 
The University has received a grant of $25,141 from the U.S. Depart­ment of Labor to hire and train 22 hard-core unemployed persons under the Federal Job Opportunities in the Business Sector program. 
To be administered by Joseph F. O'Brien '49, director of perstMmel, the program will offer on-the-job training in the categories of clerk-typist, cook-helper, groundskeeper, guard, kitchen-helper, laundry operator, main man helper and porter. The grant was part of the total of $105,229 in awards received in July supporting research, educational programs, equipment and facilities atND. 
The National Institutes of Mental Health awarded $58,221 for a study of "CO-(»dinati(m-Decisi(»i-Making in Mental Health Hospitals" by Dr. Clagett G. Smith, associate professcH­of sociology and anthn^logy. 
The U.S. Public Health Service gave $11487 for a study of "Diffusion in IViibulent Surface Layer" by Dr. Victor W. Nee, associate fmfesaor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
The American Chemical Society's Petnrfeum Research Fund provided $9000 tor "Studies of M<decu]ar Binding Energies" by Dr. Maurice E. Schwartz, assistant professor of chemistiy. 
The "Car in the south dining hall 
JIMHT won't be quite the same from now on. Sure, the rolls will be as fresh and the hamburgers as mysterious as ever. And you'll still get a bargain meal for a dollar. But affable Jimmy Mc-Garraghy, the kindest man around for many a year, won't be there. He died Aug. 26 in Loretto Hospital, Chicago, of a heart ailment 
Jimmy McGarraghy came to Notre Dame in 19S6 and lived in the old "cook's house" on the east side of the campus until it was torn down to make way for the Memoral Library. Officially, he was assistant manager of the cafeteria, but he was much more than that: the best, if littlest and quietest, PR man for the emporium, known to thousands of students, faculty members, coaches and visitors —to anyone who needed a hand or a friendly smile or enjoyed a sociable cup of coffee. 
On almost any afternoon Jimmy could be found at a table in the "Caf' with one of his many friends. If it was the weekend of a football game, he'd be wearing his good-luck, blue-and-gold necktie, almost as much an institution as Jimmy himself. With the coffee went a steady exchange of pleasantries, a survey of current events on the local scene, or a dip into the past, usually a story about a foot­ball great or an ND triumph. If he disappeared for a brief time, it was most likely for a quick trip to the Badin Hall chapel. Once a week or so he'd empty the small barrel he kept prominently displayed in the cafeteria for contributions to the Holy Cross Fathers foreign missions. 
Jimmy was bom May 8, 1900, and raised on Chicago's West Side. Like his father before him, he became a broker on the Produce Exchange, dealing in dairy products and poultry. When he spotted a good buy in turkey futures, he'd inform his Mend Dave Ford, manager of the dining hall at ND. And that's how Jimmy came to the campus: following tus 1956 retirement after 36 years in the butter and egg business and with the encouragement of Ford and some Chicago alumni, he took a position at 
his beloved ND. Since then he was 
a campus institution, rivaling in 
popularity, if not in size and years of 
service, such stalwarts as Frank 
O'Malley, Paul Fenlon and the 
famous Sorin Hall travelling bust of 
Fr. Sorin. 
Jimmy's love for Our Lady's school and his devotion to the fortunes of the football team extending over half a century were legendary even before he moved in to stay. His first game (and George Gipp's last) was a victory over Northwestern at Evanston in 1920; his first campus game was a 7-0 heart-stopper win over Nebraska the following year; he saw the 1925 Rose Bowl game; he gave the second "Clashmore Mike" Irish terrier as team mascot. When Ed "Moose" Krause was starring at Chicago's DeLaSalle High in the late 20's, Jimmy tagged him as a future Irish star and touted him to his friend Knute Rockne for football and to basketball coach George Keogan for basketball. For many years he travelled with the squad—^with real regard and affection the coaches and players called him "Coach." The football schedule was almost as important as his Easter duty—he neglected neither. How many athletes and other students he befriended and encouraged, with financial help in an emergency, only the beneficiaries themselves can tell. 
Jimmy had retired to the peace and quiet of Kneipp Springs, Rome City, Ind., when he became ill and was hospitalized. He is survived by two sisters, Mrs. Mary Cahey, of Palatine, III., and Sister McGarrahy, 
R.C.E. The funeral Mass was in Our Lady of Mercy Church, Chicago, with burial in Mt. Carmel Cemetery. Hillside, 111. 
Word of James McGarraghy's death reached the campus just as the ALUMNUS was going to press and in time for revision of the ac­companying article, originally prepared by Fr. John Wilson CSC for use as an "Old Faces, New Places" feature. 

CLASS NEWS 
'15 OLD FRIEND LOCATED A newsy letter from HENRY J. FRAWLEY Ph.B. '14 was received. For some time I have been trying to get a current address for Dr. EDWARD GUSHURST '15 and am happy Hank Frawley was able to provide it. Both Dr. Ed and his brother FRED W. GUSHURST LL.B. '14, I under­stand, spend at least a part of their summers in their native state of South Dakota. Edward's last address was 7761 Mariposa Dr., Scottsdale, Ariz. 852S1, while Fred lives in Denver, Colo. I'm told that Edward and his wife have chosen Scottsdale because the climate there is most agreeable to their health. 
The Frawley letter mentioned a mutual friend, THEODORE N. FEYDER LL.B. '14, who is seriously ill and confined to McKennan Hospital in Sioux Falls, S.D. I recently visited Ted there while on a trip to attend a family reunion. May I suggest that his friends offer their prayers and mass intentions for his welfare. 
The Frawleys, Hank Sr. and HANK Jr., '60, own and operate a S,00O-acre ranch in western South Dakota with mail head­quarters at Spearfish, S.D. Anne, Mrs. Frawley Sr., recently underwent cataract surgery. I hope and pray that she is making full and rapid recovery. 
Some time prior to the 1970 Reunion, I was pleasantly surprised to receive a tele­phone call from JOHN F. BOYLE, C.I. "15, who lives in Coalgale, Okla. 74S38, informing me of his fdans to be in attendance. Therefore, I was somewhat disappointed not to find him among the classmates listed. Upon my return home I addressed a letter of inquiry to ascertain the reasons for his absence. His reply states, "I was much disappointed on not being able to be present, especially ^nce I had phoned that I would. I was looking forward with anticipation of meeting old friends and visiting the campus. The reason for my absence was not illness, for I am blessed with good health, but an unexpected visit from one of my daughters who lives in Fresno, Calif. I enjoyed reading JOE TANSEYs CI. '15 letter quoted in a recent issue of the ALUMNUS. Am glad to learn that he is still able to take his morning walk to St Joseph's Church." We'll look forward to seeing you in 1975, John, God willing. 
Now a word about the 1970 Reunion. As I had predicted, it was indeed a memorable occasion. The class dinners, the reunion banquet, the campus touts and everything else made it a weekend to remember. My only disappointment arose out of the few members of the Class of 'IS in attendance. Of course I realize our class membership is small, at least in comparison to those of later years. And I also realize that there are many valid reasons that woidd keep one away regardless of his earnest desire to be there. 
In addition to my overall enjoyment, an added pleasure was nunc because I shared a room in the Morris Inn with a classmate. 
Great Seottnema! 
College presidents in the United States are not the only ones who may have to deal with dissident students this fall. Campus unrest is apparently a worldwide phenomenon. And the Rev. Richard W. Timm CSC '45 may have to face the problem this fall when he takes over as the new president of Notre Dame College, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
A student strike closed the school during July, according to Fr. Timm, who has spent the last two years as a visiting research professor in biology at the U. of California, Davis campus. He stopped at ND to visit friends before returning to East Pakistan. 
Fr. Timm first went to Notre Dame College in 1952, where he set up the science department. Before taking his leave of absence, he had been vice-president of the school and head of the science department. A biologist with specialization in the study of marine and plant-parasitic nematodes, he has had a Fulbright teaching fellowship, directed a project at the Central Jute Research Institute, Tejgaon, and studied imder a SEATO postdoctoral research fellowship in Thailand and the Philippines. 
Nematodes are unsegmented roundworms of which hookworm is a familiar example. They do damage to hemp and other important agri­cuhural crops in India, Pakistan and countries in Southeast Asia. 
Father Timm in Antarctica. 
During his stay in the U.S., Fr. Timm spent two and a half months as part of a team of 200 scientists who ventured to Antarctica. The ex­pedition was sponsored by the National Science Foundation. His task was to collect nematodes from mosses and the few ice-covered freshwater lakes. He also dredged the ocean floor through the Ross Ice Shelf in search of marine nematodes and traveled by helicopter to penguin rookeries and seal-breeding grounds. 
Fr. Timm said he will write a paper which identifies six new species of plant and £rediwater nematodes. He found more than 200 marine nema­todes in the antarctic. "I discovered a new genus of nematode which I have named Seottnema, after Robert Falcon Scott who explored the antarctic in the early 190Qs." 
The reputation of Fr. Timm is worldwide and he was chairman of a group of specialists at the lOtb International Symposium of Nema­tology in eariy September. The symposium was held in Rome. 
A native of Michigan City, Ind., Fr. Tinun graduated, from ND in 1945. He was ordained in 1949 and then earned an M.S. and Ph.D. in science at Catholic U., Washing­ton, D.C. 
Notre Dame College will have an enrollment of about 600 students. Of these 100 are Catholic (or Christian). When the school was founded in 1949, it had but 19 students. Of the 80 colleges in East Pakistan, only Notre Dame College and a girls' college operated by the Holy Cross nims are Catholic schools. 
There is a bit of rivalry between the institutions. The two schools legulariy have the highest nimiber of passes on state examinations for further education. "We had the highest scores in science for eight years in a tow, then we lost out to the giris," Fr. Timm said with a laugh. All colleges must follow the same curriculum and take the same tests provided by the state, he said. 
With or without campus unrest, it seems that ND presidents at home and abroad face a challenging future. 
For farther informatkni on both <Wsii Escapades" coatact: 
Alumni Association, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dan^ lad. 46556 

1970 FIGHTING IRISH 
FOOTBAU 


HOLIDAY IN LAS VEGAS & LOS ANGELES 

NOVEMBER 25-29.1970 

ATTENTION, ALUMNI!!! 
POST-GAME REUNION (All Classes) SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1970 
FOLLOWING THE ARMY GAME FIELDHOUSE (North Dome)—ATHLETIC & CONVOCA­TION CENTER 
***Sponsored by the Alumni Association *** Free Admission *** Refreshments — Cash Bars *** Meet long-lost classmates and contemporaries *** From game's end to 6:00 p.m. 
EDWARD F. RIELY LL.B. '15, who resides in Minonk, HI., and is still engaged in the practice of law. A^ all of Ed's friends know, he is a veiy enjoyable companion on any occasion. I ^so had the pleasure of renewing my acquaintance with other men of my time, among them were GRO\^ER F. MILLER LL.B. '16, Racine, Wis.; LOUIS 
F. KEIFER Ph.B. Journ. 'le, Terre Haute, Ind.; LEO J. VOGEL ME '17. Kttsburgh, Pa.; WILLIAM A. GRADY CI '17, Car­roUton. Tex.; GEORGE B. WAAGE '18, Chicago, and STEPHEN H. HERR CE '10, Chatsworth, HI. All fine gentlemen in anyone's estimation. 
I would indeed be remiss if I did not acknowledge a debt of gratitude to JAMES VINCENT DONOGHUE Com. '40 who is a fellow citizen here in I.aGrange, 111., and a fellow parishioner in St. Francis Xavier Church. Jim kindly provided the trans­portation to the class reuiuon. Jim is vice-president, sales, A. G. Beckey and Co., Investment Bankers and Brokers in Chicago. Many thanks, Jim. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, 01. 6052S 
'17 REUNION IN FLORIDA 
We are sorry that sudden illness prevented 
us from telling you previously about the 
interesting report sent in by ED McGSICER 
and his wife, Lorona, about their Florida 
reunion in March. At the invitation of 
JOE FLYNN, they went from the West 
Coast to Pompano Beach, where they were 
entertained by CHARLEY BACHMAN 
and HUGHIE O'NEILL and their wives, 
at the Coral Ridge Country Club. PAUL 
and Elizabeth FOGARTY were also invited 
but could not make it. Ed said they had 
the time of their lives and are grateful to 
one and all. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, a director of the Chicago South Shore and South Bend R.R. was one of the speakers and participated in the dedication of the railroads' new passenger terminal building, one mile west of its present location, opposite the LaSalle Hotel. Bernard also gave tlie "highball" sign for the first train to leave the new station. 
The prayers of our class are requested for Olive, the wife of OSCAR DORWIN, vho died June 6th after being hospitalized for three months. Oscar is retired and resides at 40 West Elm Street, Greenwich, Coim., 06830. 
DUKE RILEY, the sentinel of the rock bound coast of Maine, reports that he was going around with walking pneumonia for a week before he felt bad enough to go to a doctor, who told him what was wrong, and then he folded for a coujde of weeks but is well again. 
Do you like statistics? Yes, well, here we go. Out of 61 living members, according to the latest class roster, we heard from only five during the past school year. Less than 10 per cent and the reason why we called for a vote about continuing our own class colutrm. It takes real news to retain reader interest and if you have heard half of the stories we tell or if the other half are not funny, we are lost Have you voted? "Yes" or "No" on a post card is all we ask unless you want to make a general confession about yourself. 
Dan E. Hilgartner Jr. 1701 TurUe Creek Dr., N. South Bend, Ind. 46637 


'18 HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
Send Birthday Greeting to: 
Oct 5, PETER J. RONCHETTI, 1242 
Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. 
78404. LOUIS J. FINSKE. Box 40, Ponte 
Vedra Beach, Ha. 32082. Oct 7, THOMAS 
H. KING, 27 Cbambeny Circle, Louisville, Ky. 40200. Oct 9, THOMAS C. HUGHES, 1738 Upas St, San Diego, Calif. 92103. Oct 11, JOSEPH T. RILEY, Hackley U.N. Bk. BIdg., Muskegon, Mich. 49441. Oct 13, 
M. G. KAZUS, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, 
N.y.
 14216. Oct 19, H. THOMAS LAVERY, 1733 W. 106th St, Chicago. 111. 60642. Oct 29, WILLIAM A. GRADY, Box 596, Carrollton, Tex. 75006. Sept 3, LOUIS H. FOLLET, 1303 W. Oak St. Norristown, Pa. 19401. Sept 8, WALTER 

R.
 MILLER, 14015 Superior Rd., Qeveland, 

O.
 44118. Sept 29, EDWARD F. RIELY, 


Minonk, lU. 61760. 
Wedding Anniversary Dates: 
Oct 8, H. S. CARROLL, 338 Mountain 
View Ave., San Rafael 94901. Oct 26, 
JAMES G. WALLACE, 1132 BeUevue 
Ave., Syracuse, N.Y. 13204. Oct 30, 
JOSEPH T. RILEY, 715 Hackley Union, 
Muskegon, Mich. 49400. 
Chairman of the Board—Citizens Bank of Chatworth, DI.—STEPHEN H. HERR, '11, writes—^'My wife expects to go with us, but win spend most of her time at St Mary's College meeting with some of her classmates of 50 yrs. This will be my 60th reunion—I spent six yrs. at ND. Two yrs. as a 'prep.' My son graduated from ND in 
51. He is driving us to ND." Meeting with classmates and "ole grads" like Herr, is what really makes the reunion great. Word from JOHN LEMMER, '18: Sony Phyllis and I did not make it this year. Had hospital session in Coral Gables, Fla. Pleased to learn that John is back on his golf game. LEO ZGADZINSKL '14 wrote: Hope to see you. My buddie ROCKNE was killed on my birthday, March 31. As you know he took pharmacy with me. Sure pleased to report that Leo looks great 
'DOC' NIGRO, '17 wired Morris Inn, "Am ill—but nothing serious." I'm no doctor—but that guy gotta slow down— on the go too much for his own good. That track star. Monogram winner miler EDWARD J. McOSKER, '17, could not make reunion. Wrote that he recently had a wonderful time at a small ND reunion at Pompano Beach, Fla. Party included CHARLIE BACHMAN, HUGH O'NEIL, JOE FLYNN and BILL REDDEN and wives. Bill who graduated in '15 is a widower—JACK MEAGHER, who played end '16—then went into service was represented by his widow. 
Got a nice letter from GEORGE F. FRANTZ, LLB. '17. Sent it to ARTHUR J. BERGMAN, '17—known to us "ole timers" as YOIWG DUTCH. Wanted to learn if he could come up with some answers as to who were in Sorin Subway. 
Reporting on "sick call"—BILL BRAD­BURY—according to ofiSce doing ok. MAX KAZUS' wife doing much better as is "BIG FRANK" RYDZEWSKl's wife Lorraine. BERT SENGS' wife Marie is coming along but is back in hospital. That 'ticker' takes special care plus time. Your prayer and sincere best wishes for all of 'em on sick list 
May you enjoy good health and live to be 100. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wiightwood Ave. Chicago, 111. 60647 

>22 TWO ARE CALLED 
God in His wisdom and goodness contimies 
to call us heavenward. Since our last 
reporting, two more of our finest class­
mates are to be .the recipients of those 
eternal rewards for those who wdl setred 
the Divine Master during their trial periods 
here on earth. Those faithful departed class­
mates are: GERALD C. BRUBAKER who 
resided at 360 Goshen Ave., Elkhart, Ind., 
and JAMES A. CARMODY of 718 
Leonard St, N.E, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
49503. 
Gerald Brubaker was bom in Mishawaka 
but had lived in Elkhart for the past 43 
years. He was a graduate in architectural 
engineering and tau^t such studies at ND 
over afive-year period. He was a member 
of the American Institute of Architects and 
member and past secretary of the Indiana 
AIA and was in semi-retirement Death 
came to Gerald in St Joseph's Hospital, 
Mishawaka, where he had been a patient 
for two days. He was a member of St 
John's Episcopal Church, Elkhart, and was 
a former vestryman of that church. Mrs. 
Brubaker died in 1949. Two sons survive: 
Thomas E. Brubaker of South Bend and 
James G. Brubaker of Elkhart We extend 
sympathy and solace to families of our 
deceased. 
James Carmody departed this life in his home city of Grand Rapids, Mich., on Feb. 26 after being afflicted with cancer since June of last year. This very bad news came to us in a letter received from a dau^ter, Maiy Eileen Carmody, who now resides in Milwaukee, Wis. Poor Jim bad more than his share of ill health problems—bis own and also other family members, including his wife, who has been a complete invalid for many years. Of coiuse, Jim never mentioned such things. Always he had nothing but friendship and jdeasantries for his family, his friends and his ND classmates. Jim's presence at any gathering meant warmth and happiness. He never did miss a five-year class reunion. Jim was an accountant and was in semi-retirement He leaves a widow, Catherine C; a son, James J. of Grand Rapids; five daughters in addition to the aforementioned are: Mrs. G. Dean (Theresa) Camion of Mendota, HI.; Mrs. W. R. (Patricia) O'Dwyer of Jackson, Mich.; Miss Kathleen 
A. Carmody of Grand Rapids; Miss Sheila 
L. Carmody of San Diego; a aster, Mrs. Irene Hayes of Grand Rapids, and 13 grandchildren. Jim was a veteran of World War I, and he belonged to the American Legion, the Catholic War Vets, Ancient Order of Hibernians, and was a past chair-roan of the Democratic Party in the Grand Rapids area. 
In late June Rev. GEORGE B. FISCHER CSC reports in an assignment from Summeiville, S.C.—a suburb of Charieston. 
The FRANK BLOEMERS of Louisville, Ky., and Florida left Tampa on April 28 aboard a Norwegian tramp freie^ter making stop^ffs at LeHavre, Antwerp, Rotterdam and Hamburg. Later they traveled by train through Sweden and Denmaric thence to Bremen. On one occasion they came within six miles of the Russian border. 
Our very grateful thanks are extended to Mrs. T. Pierre (Agnes) Champion and family of Oeveland, Ohio, and to Mrs. John F. (Agnes) Heffeman and family of Red Bank, NJ., for their sweet notes of thanksgiving for spiritual bouquets and notes of sympathy in the recent deaths of their dear husbands. 
Hearty oraciatiilatians aie extended to the grand Class of 1920 in the cdebration of their Gddai Anniversary of graduatkm. 
G. (Kid) Ashe 175 Unding Rd, North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
13 DUNES TOT SORIN In mid-July, the KREIMERS spent a ddightfiil and restful few days on Lake Michigan's eastern shore near South Haven, at ART DIEDRICIfs summer haven, tmas a good way to get cau^t up on the local happenings (gossip) and temiiiisce of our doings some 50 years ago, interspersed with a lot of bridge i^us good eating £rom surrounding track gardens and orchards. Art and I decided S(HUN stopped short of an Eden da Lac in these dunes. 
A letter in late June to the HonoraUe JOSEPH W. NYKOS, Judge of the Circuit Court, St Joseph Ownty, Ind, from Donald 
A. Dake, Supt of South Bend Cbtmnunity School Corp. thanks Joe for the very acceptable appointment of Aaron H. Huguenard Jr., to the Board of Schoid Trustees, reidadng the late LOUIS V. BRUGGNER. His letter goes on to say: "I am sure you would be interested to know that the present board has named the large meeting-room center in the present school administration bnHdiiig," (formerly the multi-story Studebaker Corp. Office across the tracks from the NYC Depot) "the LOUIS BRUGGNER ROOM, in his memory. Henceforth, most of the school staff meetings and the teachers meetings will be hdd in this, the former Red Carpet Room." 
A card from the J. DANIEL CUL­HANK says they have passed the half­way point of thdr trip through Northern and Southern Irdaml at Corcai^ Came through Deny and Belfast unscathed I»it were not yet out of County Cork where, I'm told burnt cork isn't the only way to produce a black eye! 
A bjn-board card bom COLONEL DORIOT picturing Hugo's Restanrant on Cohasset Harbor lAere he says the family has week-end dinners just two miles from their summer home at N. Sdtuate. Told me he spent a busy week in Indiana during May, with a visit to ND and CHET GRANT, and a stay in FW where be was entertained 'Royally.' Thon^ he saw ED SULLIVAN here, my phone must have been out of order since he tried to call me several times. 
Two more stalwart Classmates have gone to their rew d ED GRETCHEN suddenly from a cardiac arrest on June 16, and FRANK W. (PETE) PEDROTTY on July 7, after an extended illness. Ed had been assistant attorney general for the State of New York for some years and later entered the private practice of Law at 164 Chapel St, Canandaigua, N.Y. 14424. Frank recently was retired after a lot of years as sales engineer for Wheelabiator Corp. and resided at 355 Park Ave. Mishawaka, Ind 46544. He is probably best remembered for his little moustadie and great big smile behind a bass horn or fiddle at the Scholarship Club dances. 
An readers of the "23 Class Cdumn can look foTWvd to the Oct-Nov. Issue of the ALUMNUS with a great deal of treasure, because we have a new secretary to fin those Kg Brogans vacated so suddenly last winter. As a journalist he is ideally suited to take over the job so ably handed by 
his journalistic predecessor. Oh yes,—his 

name is FRANCIS WALLACE, of 4615 
Guernsey St., Bellaire, O. 43906, and if you 
dial 1-614-676-0536 he'll be happy to jot 
down any news you have to offer. 

Thanks to all of you who helped fill the 
void during the past eight months by 

writing to me, and herewith is my "30." 
Edward P. Kreimer 
2827 Westbrook Dr., Apt. 233 
Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805 
'24 SIMPLE ARITHMETIC 

Youth considers the future; middle age, the present; and old age, the past A little simple arithmetic starting with the key number of '24 will indicate into which category we should fall. But there is also another viewpoint . . . those who like to keep their hands on the present, their thoughts on the future, and their pastimes for the past Let's consider this column a pastime reminiscence brought on by the reluctance of our class to correspond. Maybe humility keeps you from writing about yourself. If so, let this act as a general amnesty so that we can enjoy opening our ALUMNUS and reading about some long forgotten friends of our college days. 
When I reminisce I think of fellows I knew or wanted to know back in the years '20 to "24 . . . fellows like JOE BERG­MAN, AL CASTELLINI, BILL CONNERS (of the red hair and freckled face), the serious HUGH BLUNT, BOB CUNNING­HAM. PETE CURRAN, JOHN D'ARCY, OWEN DESMOND, JIM EGAN, LES FOLEY (my old roommate), LEWIS FRICKE of the original crew haircut, TOM HODGSON, VINCE HALLORAN, FARRELL JOHNSTON, PAUL KEN­NEDY, PAUL MARTIN, GENE MAYL, RAY McGEE, TIM MURPHY, (who caught some mighty fine passes in stiff competition), CLIFF NOONAN, GENE OBERST, CHARLIE ROBRECHT, MATT ROTHERT who didn't have a crew-cut but could have used it, JOE RYAN, JIM SWIFT who looked like a Hart, Schaffner & Marx Adv., EDDIE TIGHE who didn't, HAROLD WELCH, JOHN GOTUACO, and HUGH BOYLE and CHARLIE PORTER who helped round out a barber­shop quartet, EARL and JIM HURLEY who always napped after lunch, CLIFF McINTOSH and his cousin from Lincoln, Neb., LES BROWN who proved a small man could iday guard, PAT BUELL with the real southern drawl—as a freshman, ED CANTWELL, BILL CROOK, BILL DRENNAN, JIM HAYES one of the busiest men on campus, LEO HERRINGER, CLARENCE KERWIN, EDDIE LUTZ, HUGH MAGEVNEY, BOB REAGAN, VERNON RICKARD who sang so well in the Glee Club and was related to the then famous "Tex" of Jack Dempsey fame, AL SERVA, BILL SHEEHAN, JOHN STANTON, and a few of the black-robed friends who went all the way, DIEFEN­BACH, GRANER, TOM KELLY, PHIL MOORE and RAY PIEPER to name just a few. 
Isn't it remarkable «4iat your memory can do with a little help from a class roster? Some of the above have now departed from this worid. Before it is too late I hope many of us survivors will write a note for this column. Tell us something about yourself, or any others. This is your column. Let's see your name in it soon. 
Before it appears in the obit notices. 
The lawyeis particulaily and otbeis who 
knew THOMAS W. BARBER. LLB -24, 
will regret to hear that he died May 30. 
A mass arranged by Alumni Secretaiy, 
HM COONEY, was sud at Sacred Heart 
Church on Sunday, June 21. The Baiber 
family can be addressed caie of Robert 
Barber, 418 Sanford, Erie, Pa. Tom was 
a strong supporter of ND and puticulaily 
the Law Center Program. We extend the 
sympathy of all his dassmates to his 
family. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 SW Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'27 BELATED CONTIUBUTION A few days after I had sent in my notes for the preceding issue, I received a refreshing letter from BILL HALLORAN, one of our Commerce dassmates. Bill's summer address is Box 324, Blowing Rock, 
N.C. 28605, and he would like to hear from his old friends. His letter doerves to be set out in full. It reads as follows: 
"For lo, these many years, I bad looked at the alumni news, always dqdoring the paucity of news about the Class of '27. It should have dawned on me that if all dassmates were as derelict as I, it was no wonder that so often only the secretaiy's name appeared. So, for what it's worth, accept my belated contribution: 
"Three years ago 1 retired ftom Sears, Roebuck & Co. after 38 years. We spend six months up here in the mountains and six in Lighthouse Point, Fla. Our four children are spread around the country. Our oldest, NEAL, '55 is with AllsUte in Chicago, the No. 2 son, ROGER, '57, is an artist and is here in North Carolina. Our daughter, whose husband is with the Depart­ment of Justice, is in Cleveland, and our youngest. Father Gene, a Dominican, is studying for his doctorate in dinical psychology after a few years of leadiing at Fenwick High School in Oak Park, DL 
"My wife, Agnes, and I have travded quite a bit during the last ID or 15 years. Our most recent was to the Hdy Land and down the Nile to Luxor and Aswan in 1967. We landed in Athens in the middle of the revolution and got out of Israd a week or two before the Arab-Isradi War. 
"Don't manage to see too many '27 men. However, did have an hour or so with DINK HENNESSEY in Vicksburg a year or two ago. Saw HARRY O'BOYLE in Chicago before we picked up stakes for Florida last year. He is now retired ftom General Motors. DAN MO(HtE, too, I understand is retired from Western Electric 
"Was looking at our 2Sth reunion photo the other day. Faces like those of ART MONACO, BULLEIS McKENNA, DINS McCABE, WOP CDONNELL, ED RYAN, JIMMY ONISON. FRANK MASTERSON, DAN CUNNINGHAM. etc., sure brought back many pleasant memories. Let's hope the Lord spares us all until 1972, and that well all be back for that reunion." 
With sorrow I must report the death of anodier dassmate. JAMES G. WING died in June on the gcdf course of the Gfenview Country Club after a successfid banking career. At the time of his death, he was executive vice-president of I^ke Shore National Bank in Chicago. Hie was a veteran of the bank for 43 years. After his gradu­ation, he took his first job with die bank as a messenger. He worked in every department imd capadty In the bank, being named an assistant cashier in 1937 and executive vice-president in 1967. In addition to his woik at ND, Jim had studied with the American Institute of Banking and attended the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers University, graduating in 1947. He is survived by his widow, who lives at 414 Ashland Ave., Evanston, and by three sons, James D.. ROBERT J. '55 and RICHARD M. '57 and the one daughter, Patricia and 17 grandchildren. Jim was another dassmate of whom we all can be proud. 
When I recdved word of his passing, I asked our priest dassmate. Rev. HARRY RYAN, to offer a Mass for him. Fr. Harry answered the request right away and remarked that by coinddence, Jim had been his first roommate at Notre Dame. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
111 West Downer Place 
Aurora, 01. 60504 


'28 DEVOTED MEMBER LOST 
Our Class lost one of its most active and 
devoted members in the death of HENRY 
MASSMAN on July 9 after a short iUness 
in Kansas City. I could always depend on 
Hank. He wrote in Jime while on a trip 
through the Scandinavian countries and 
Leningrad that he expected to return to 
U.S.A. in July. He was one of the anonymous classmates who made my 1%7 class study possible. He attended all of our reunions. Heniy was president of Massman Construction Co. in Kansas City which operates in 23 states, Mexico and Canada. He is survived by his wife at 1261 W. 56th SL, Kansas City, five children, 19 grand­duldren and his father. 
Several additions to our retiree list biing tiie total to over SO. GEORGE WAGNER, who, you willremember, was wounded at Iwo Jima. retired from the U.S. Coast Guard and practices law on a limited basis in Penysville. Ohio. PHIL BERTHIAUME sold his business in Portiand, Ore., but remains active on a partial basis. FRANCIS DAVID retired as senior project engineer, Louisiana Department of Highways in Alexandria, La. 

GLENN HATCH, like many odier retired dassmates, spends his winters in Florida and suggests that "28 men arrange a get-together there next winter. It soimds like an excellent idea and I will follow throui^ with Glenn on it If interested, write to me or to Glenn, P.O. Box 28, Abington, Pa. 19001. Inddentally, Glenn. «4io retired in 1968, has been "doing something" about small yax:ht ventOators. Glenn's "Hatch Ventilators" have been dis|dayed by the U.S. Power Squadron. Among boatmen, GENE FARRELL, niio is in semi-retirement after 42 years of newspaper work, is executive oScet of the Newark Bay Power Squadron of the 
U.S.P.S. Gene's specialty is cdestial navigator. 
Traveling dassmates indude JACK DOYLE (British Isles), DAN BRADLEY (Iidand), BILL KIRWAN (Scandinavia), BOTTS CROWLEY (Spain and Portugal), GENE BROWN (Europe on their 27Ui anniversary), FRED SOLMAN (Spain), VINCE WALSH (Colombia, SA.), VINCE CARNEY (Turkey). 
It was good to hear from a number of dassmates for the first time in many years, induding the following: CHILE WALSH 
from Hollywood, Cal., who, in addition to continuing in the oil business as an inde­pendent operator, has done considerable research in corruption in sports footbaU. Congratulations to Chile on his nomination for membership in "The National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame." Chile has our sympathy on the death of his wife a year ago; DICK McCLURE is a licensed detective in CoUegeville, Pa. after his retirement as chief of police in CoUegeville. Congratulations to Dick on receiving his degree in business administration at Ursinus College in 1%9 at age 65. Dick is married and has two chfldren; BILL MURPHY heard from JOHN CONSIDINE who is farming in Wisconsin and living in Lake Geneva; JOHN POLISKY, who is semi­retired works at the Jefferson County Court House in Steubenville, CHiio, where he is in charge of the old record department; JIM CROSS is President of the Cross Oil Co. in Salem, Otdo. His son is in business with him; JOHN WALLACE is managing apartment complexes in Hollywood, Cal.; MARTIN KIRWAN retired from the U.S. Corps of Engineers in 1968 and lives in Louisville, Ky.; ED DIRINGER retired as sales manager of the Lawers Co-operative Publishing Co. in Rochester, NY, after 25 years of service. Eddie will continue as a marketing consultant for the company; according to ED RAFTER, Dr. JOHN FRANKLIN is still associated with the Cornell Medical School; congratulations to insurance man JOHN MURPHY on the accounts in the Columbus, Ohio, papers of his hole-in-one as he did his first ace in 1937; HAROLD CANAVAN reUred after 35 years with the New York State Division of Parole. He lives in Altamont, NY, is married and has three children; J. F. "Sam" DUNNE edits a quarterly publication in San Francisco to raise funds for the Jesuit 
missionaries; CHRISTIE FLANAGAN and his son joined FRITZ WILSON when Fritz was installed as National Monogram President at ND. 
I attended another successful Annual Union-Management Conference at St. Mary's in June which was arranged by Father MARK HTZGERALD. I have served on the Conference Committee for 18 years. The South Bend Tribune reported recently that Father Mark had been cited for distinguished service in fostering in­dustrial peace by the publishers of the Dictionary of International Biography. 
Other classmates reported that their mothers are still living, including JOHN WINBERRVs at age 91, CHRISTIE FLANAGAN'S at age 90 and GENE BROWN'S at age 91. 
I hope you all receive your tickets for the Purdue game and will join lu at our annual post-game '28 Class cocktail party on Sept. 26 in the Monogram Room in the Athletic and Convocation Center across from the ND stadium. 
Louis F. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt. 10O7 Chicago, m. 60626 
19 IRISH AYES By now most of you have learned that Rev. LOUIS J. THORNTON CSC retired as director of the placement bureau at Notre Dame on Aug. 1. Many are aware that about 500 companies, organizations and government agencies come to the campus to interview ND seniors and graduate students for emt^oyment Some, especially on the faculty, are almost embanassed iriien 
perhaps SO companies come to recruit a 
share of 20 graduates in a certain disdpiiae. 
Fr. Lou was able to maintain this level of 
service to our graduates while increasing 
the esteem that representatives of industry 
had for him personally and for the 
courteous, prompt thoroughness which 
characterized bis service to aU. 
Following his ordination in 1944, Fr. Lou 
served as secretary to the late JOHN 
CARDINAL O'HARA CSC wbm Fr. 
O'Hara headed the Militaty Ordinariate in 
New York City. Thus, Sorin Hall Chapd 
as we knew it in '25 to '29 but multiplied 
by 100,000, was providentially staffed by 
the best that Cod had available. 
We would like to share two gems mailed 
before Mother's Day by Rev. JOE BARRY 
CSC to a mailing list known only to him. 
It begins, "From one Cdt to another on a 
day dedicated to mothers . . . God's 
chosen children . . . man's most needed 
companion in love and in life." Space 
restrictions of this column ptedude full 
presentation of bis two selected poems one 
titled "Mother's Prayer" written by Rev. 
THOMAS LAHEY CSC, the second "Much 
Ado About Nothin'" which ends ".. . and 
some of us—a mighty few keep drinking 
till we're 92." We will gladly mail the 
poems to you should you request them— 
and enclose some news about yourself and 
your family. 
Your secretary and wife, Margaret, had the privilege of a recent visit to Irdand including Blarney, Coric, Dublin, Killaniey, Limerick, Tralee and points between. It has all the attributes claimed for it. We bad heard the words but they didn't do justice to the country. An island which has no point more than 75 miles from the sea, and even now has a complete phone directory hardly two inches thick, has a relaxed iit­tensity that is unique and remarkable. One wouldn't beUeve that peofle like Ann Kehoe and Tom and Nora Gray coidd be so elusive in so small an area. 
Purdue meets ND in football on Sept. 26, 
and 29er meets 29er immediatdy afterward 
in the Engineering Building. 
We have some changes of address, some of which imply a news story. ORSON DAUSMAN from Indianapolis to 822 Cypress Lake Cirde, Fort Myers, Fla.; CHESTER E. SMITH, Toledo to R No. I Box 276, Cheboygan, Mich.; JOHN McENIRY to 1888 S. Jackson. Denver, Colo. Our next door nei^bor LAURA BEAULIEU, a library major, has moved across town >o 631 Leland, South Bend. Laura was once secretary to Rev. CHARLES MILTNER CSC and others, and is presently secretary to Dr. Frank d'Alelio of the department ot chemistTy. FRANCIS LYNN'S new address is 645 S7th St., Brooklyn. TOM JORDAN has moved from Faitbom, CMiio, to 101 N. 40lh St, Apt C-17, Newark. Ohio. Dr. ARTHUR FLEMING now Uves at 1050 Wall SL 7B, Ann Arbor, Mich. JOHN RIORDAN has moved from Lockport, HI., to 1410 Hack Thorn Dr., Glenview, m. 
May I repeat, PLEASE take the time to send me some news about yoursdf, your family, your classmates. 
Larry Stauder Engineering Building Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
'30 SPLINTERS Post mortem sifters from the 40th reunion press box: 
Your ds s secfctaiy foOoved yoof diW president on « Einopean holiday folinwim the recent conclave whidi pronpled ooe wag to remark that bodi handkd the coOectioB money at the reunion and tte baskets disappeared very soon after tte *%at 
Seiioosly, your very efficient secretaiy asked me to act as news fatherer whie be toured Europe. In a pre-i^^ note DEV said he was ri«»mn«t his visit to Nbitheni Irdand and some of the continental univenity dties. The purpose of the tnp was to try to nefotiate a idease for Bemadette Deidin. the fieiy civil ritfts leader and also to study fiuopean anti-student riot methods. Our own 16-day holiday culminated a life-Iimc desire to return to the birth place of my patents. To my sorrow I found no Toomeys. but the ooonttyside was overrun with Twomeys in and around County Cbrit (TED TWOMEY always insisted his spdling was the correct one.) 
Ted's son TIM was seriously Injured in a motor vdude collision shortly before the reunion. The critical nature of the lad's condition kept the Big Twomey near his son's bedside in a Jacksonville. Fla. hospital 
The customers always write to express sorrow, joy and to voice a few conqitaints. Our boys did this after the leunioiL AM were generous with praise for the fine performance turned in by DEVERE, BOB HOLMtS, PAUL FARMER and an olhen on the Uxtl campus scene who bad a hand in arranging the many details iriddi go into the planning of an aAur sndi as we all enjoyed during the weekend of June 13, 1970. 
CAFT. GEORGE CMALLEY. Senior Judge, U. S. Navy Court of Military Review, writes one of the reunion events wUdi impressed him most was the collection at FATHER JIM RIZER's evening Mass in Keenan Hall Chapd. He remaned. "DAN CANNON and yoursdf vrere sitting in die front row of a packed cbMftL Yoa bodi intently observed the flow of dollar bils into the collection plate and w4ien one of the alumni dropped a pound note into die box your smile and l^' s return sade ot approval will long be remembered and was something to bdiold. I am confident the old collection taker, JACK CANNON, was wiA you both in spirit I am also sure this and the other coDections had no connection with the recent trips our esteemed secretary and yoursdf made to Irdand." 
One of the more pleasant aspects of being the part-time dass correspondent is the personal notes filling me in on icmaoa impressions. Such notes were received fron TOM SHEA. '29. Mandiester. Conn., wlio asked me to convey hispeisoiial riir»iai of gratitude to all the "Men of the da v of 1930" for tbdr magnificent dispiqr (rf courtesy and good fellowships, lie recent visit to the campus was Tom's fiitt in 16 years and the second since graduation in 1929. Letters from Umreisity president. FATHER TED HESBURGH, Ondi Ara Parseihian. VBOtf HART, and many odieis ddighted Tom no en l 
Fr. Rizer stationed at SL Elizabeth's PaiBh. Ridmiond. Va. requested me to remind all die lads he vrill continue to offer many Masses for the dfffaird and living menJieis of the dass. All of m attending die leuniop owe a deep ddit of gtatibide to FATHERS JIM and LEN CMXINS CSC for looking alter oar spiritual needs during die exciting wcdtead. JIM LEAHY and TMf BRENNAN SJ­son of Kari, aided tremendously as 
assistants. KARL BRENNAN also asked 
to convey bis thanks to all the riflemen for 
making this past reunion such a happy one. 
ART ERRA penned in from Phoenix, 
Ariz, asking me to consider his adopted 
state as a possible retirement haven. Art 
visited Pittsburgh following the reunion and 
accompanied the big umbrella advocate, 
Dan Cannon on that portion of his Cook's 
Tour. 
BUD ROSEWARNE, the Grand Rapids, 
Mich., insurance tycoon, was lavish in 
praise of the outstanding job turned in by 
local arrangements committee. He also 
stated he doubted that he could pay the 
tuition and other charges or pass the 
entrance requirements demanded of present-
day university applicants. 
FRED LENSING forwarded snapshots of 

ADMIRAL O'MALLEY, LEFTY MORAN 
and yours truly which will be subsequently 

forwarded to the winning smile division of 
the senior citizen section of a leading 
toothpaste distributor. BILL SHERMAN 
writes humorously about his experience 
concerning the investigation which was 

conducted following the body recovered in 
the lake during the reunion. Bill had to 
establish to the satisfaction of the Uni­
versity security chief that he was in fact 
William N. Sherman, Knoxville, Tenn. and 
not the poor unfortunate person who 
failed to come up for air. 
JOHN GOLDEN and DICK BLOOM 

have purchased retirement homes and are 
presently living near Phoenix, Ariz. 
CHET ASHMAN, Morristown, Tenn., 

could not attend our get-together. An 
emergency business situation kept his wife, 
Sara and Chet in the Smoky Mountain 
region. 
Our long time Manhattan friend, TOM 

LANTRY, made what I believe must have 
been the most determined effort to reach 
the campus before the closing moments of 
the weekend. By bicycle, automobile and 
plane he was able to reach the University 
in time for alumni banquet. The journey 
started in Burlington, Vt. at 9 a.m. 
Saturday. A great effort, Tom. 
Many of the class residing within driving distance of the University felt an effort should be made to hold a class-sponsored cocktail party following one of the home football games this fall. Such a venture will entail some planning and fund-raising and an appropriate game selection. The Louisiana State contest would appear to be a fine time for such a meeting of gridiron enthusiasts who will be attending this contest All interested should write to DEVERE PLUNKETT with appropriate suggestions. 
JOHN F. HEALY writes that following the reunion the heat of the Windy City drove him to Mackinac Island and after two weeks there the hummingbird-sized mosquitoes drove him back to Chicago. John relates interestingly that after viewing ND and Stanford in the 192S Rose Bowl game he decided to matriculate at the University of Our Lady. Mrs. Healy and John contributed the funds to establish the Hayes-Healy Center at ND. 
The Healys have donated large sums to other institutions of higher learning but the gift to Notre Dame gave this generous couple the most heartfelt satisfaction, he said. The Class of '30 salutes a distinguished member and his lady. 
Until the next edition, your president and acting secretary, Tim Toomey '31 REMEMBER ARMY GAME It is deadline time again and news is a bit on the thin side. GEC»IGE COSTELLO recently had a letter from the sister of HARRY KENNEDY saying that Hany was in the hospital with an eye operation and slight heart condition. George also has a son teaching with the Jesuits in Peru. A recent article in the Tribune mentioned OLIVER FIELD, director of research for the A. M. A. department of investigation. I received a card from B. R. DESENBERG announcing the association of his son, LOUIS A. '66 for the practice of law in Buchanan, Mich. 
I received a note from ERNEST P. KLETZLY '57 that his father, LEO J., member of our class, passed away May 3rd. Leo had been quite active in Senra affairs and a regular correspondent with class news. It seems that this colunm always presents the sad news of the passing of classmates which is something we can expect as time goes on. Word was received from the Alumni Office of the deaths of FRANK 
C. WACHSMITH, AB, New York, N.Y. and JAMES M. CARROLL, Columbus, Ohio. Our sympathy is offered to their fam­ilies. Please remember them in your prayers. 
Change of address notices indicate that RICHARD O'DONNELL has moved from Pittsburgh to the ofSce of the governor, St Thomas, V. I. U.S.A. CLARENCE BRINK, Franklin, Tenn., is now in Dalton, Ga. 30720. All classmates attending the Army game Oct 10 are requested to attend the reunion cocktail party in the Monogram Lounge of the new A. C. C. We hope to eliminate any problems of admittance this year. I woidd appreciate hearing from those planning on attending so that proper reservations can be made. Best wishes. 
James T. Doyle 1567 Ridge Avenue Evanston, 111. 
'32 DAUGHTER STUDIES LAW 
FRANK (Christmas Card) MARLEY writes: "IJear FLO: after reading the last ALUMNUS I decided to drop a note about my own immediate family, «4iich is all I know about at the moment My youngest daughter, Barbara, who graduated at St Mary's Notre Dame in 1958 has finished her first year in the University of Toledo College of Law. My eldest son, William 
E. 'ex '62' was married on June 20, 1970 to Vicki Jean Morgan in Christ the King Cathedral in Atlanta, Ga. This was the cathedral of our former classmate Paul Hallinan. Bill was attended by his brother, Francis M. Mariey, Jr. ND '64 and naturally Sr. was present also together with the other kids, except Mike. My youngest son, Mike, is serving with the 
U.S. Army in Germany and is not married as yet as far as we know. It would be nice if someone would compile an up­to-date list of all of our living former classmates with the correct addresses. If each member of the class woidd notify you when he moved it would be a fine thing for our class secretary to compile such a list and send a copy thereof to all the classmates." 
A post card from EUGENE "SMOKEY" COYNE from Dublin reminding me of a silly incident in Chicago nearly 40 years ago. What a memory! 
A note from the Alunmi OfiSce telling of the passing of CHARLES KRONCKE JR. 
in December, 1968. A mass was said for the repose of his soul on July 19. 
Would you believe that is all the news I have received? I can't write it if you don't send it—How about it? 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Road Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 HAPPY NEWS SOUGHT 
SAMUEL Y. HYDE has entered a plea for more happy news in this column. Please try to oblige him. Sam will attend all home games and has agreed to forward news on classmates he may see. Recently he heard from Fr. LLOYD TESKE of the University of Portland and JIM GEREND of MUwaukee. 
B. R. DESENBERG who received his ND law degree in '33, announces his association with LOUIS A. DESENBERG '66 in the practice of Law at 118 Main St, Buchanan, Mich. 49107. 
CHUCK HAFRON sent greeUngs to PETE CONNELLY, JACK HOYT, and GEORGE ROHRS. He attended a June meeting at the Moreau High School which is operated by the Holy Cross Fathers in Hayward, Cal. Among those seen by Chuck were EDWARD C. MASSA and his wife. Ed is president of Realtor, Inc. MAURIE DeWALD's son, a California resident was also present 
The last tune I saw HAROLD V. POHLMEYER was at our 30th reunion. He and LUCIEN S. KEMPF. In a May letter, Harold said he had been unable to attend our 3Sth because his wife, Julie, suffered from multiple sclerosis. Even with this dread disease, the Pohlmeyers are tremen­dously gratefiil because their only son, Michael, is a senior at ND Business Administration School and has been awarded a full 3-year tuition scholarship by the ND Law School. Mike has been on the dean's list since his freshman year, is the ROTC cadet battalion commander, and is president of ND's chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma. He has been assigned to the ROTC program of the judge advocate general. Harold is the manager of sales accounting for Kaiser Refractories, a division of Kaiser Aluminum. Thanks for the letter, Harold; we'll certainly remember Julia in our prayers. 
JOHN "Red" BARRETT is in charge of construction of the Optima Dam in the center of the Oklahoma Panhandle. He's living in Guyman, CNcla. Red was at the Cotton Bowl, Jan. 1, but like Maurie DeWald, missed seeing any classmates. He plans to attend the LSU game on campus the 21st of Nov. and will be at the Holiday Inn in Niles. Last April he visited Natchez and saw Edith and PAT BURNS. He was also on campus May 29th and 30th. 
EUGENE C. CALHOUN is chairman of the SUMMA drive for the Los Angeles area. As of April 20, 1970, they surpassed their goal by raising $494,124.00. His group found 666 contributors and made 123.5% of the quota. 
Generous Dr. BOB DONOVAN sent a donation in memory of Dr. Tom Dooley. In a personal thank-you, Fr. Hesburgh told of a proposed use of the gift for the upkeep of the Dooley Room, a monument to Tom on campus. Bob also will be at most of the "70 home games. 
RAY NABER was shocked to learn of the sudden death of Pat NORM DUKE's wife, and immediately sent condolences. 
PHIL FAHERTY will attend the Geoigia 
Tech game and promises to look for '33 
news. He will meet me and other classmates 
at the Navy game in Philadelphia. 
Judge MOE LEE was headlined in the Chicago newspapers when Santa Qaus appeared at his grandson's summer birthday party. It seems that Santa was re-paying a favor to the Judge who had discharged him in his court last Christmas season when he was on trial after receiving a parking ticket when his sleigh was observed by a traffic policeman illegally parked on State Street. The grandson, John Herman, told reporters it was the best fifth birth­day he ever had. 
JOE DAVEY was kind enough to praise this column and I thank him. After 31 years of selling auto supplies, Joe is now with the Michigan Historical Commission and rolls about the state in a trailer that appears to be over a block long. Curator Davey displays Michigan history from the days of the "black robes" and the woods­men to the industrial present. The History-mobile improves the aptitudes of fourth, fifth, and sixth graders. In his journeys Joe stopped at Monroe, Mich., RAY BRANCHEAU's hometown, and said the folks there "spoke of Ray and his football days, as the people of Laurium, Mich, speak of George Gipp." In Erie, Mich, he found that BERNIE COUSINO has a farm and is a prominent hay buyer. 
C. J. HESS, according to the roving historian, is deputy director of Civil Service for the state and on rare occasions is in Lansing. Joe hasn't run into MIKE COYLE but will look for him when in Bay City. The only complaint registered by the affable Joe, is that witty JACK CUNNEA doesn't write to him except at Christmas. As a concluding number the monster Histoiymobile will carry artifacts to Rogers City, Mich, and the mayor, KARL VOGELHEIM. 
J. VINCENT BURKE announces the combining of his law firm with another under the name of Tucker, Burke, Campbell & Arensberg, 1100 Peoples Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222. Irene and I send our best to Mary and Vince and will see them at the Navy game. 
Mrs. GEORGE ROHRS sent a pro­vocative letter to the May-June issue of the ALUMNUS. Thank you, Jeanne, for your stirring remarks. 
Charles A. Conley 
100 East Tumbull Avenue Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 DKECTORY "NEWS' The following information was taken from the 1969-70 Notre Dame Club of Chicago Directory. 
JOHN L. LUKANITSCH now supervisor, 
J.P. O'Callaghan & Co., Venetian Blinds & Ventilators, 20 W. Kinzie St., Chicago. 
EDWARD J. MCCARTHY, a partner, Joseph McCarthy Sons, Gen'l. Contrs. 1026 N. Clark St., Chicago. 
WILLIAM A. MCCARTHY is owner of William A. McCarthy Co., Loose Leaf Binders, Brief Cases & Office Supplies, 4701 
W. 99th St., Oak Lawn, lU. 
ALBERT L. McGUFF, Sales Manager, National Accounts, Tri Pack Corp., Corr. Box Mfgr., 1515 W. 15th St., Chicago. 
JOHN A. McSHANE Uving at 1224 Courtland, Park Ridge, 111. JOHN E. O'CONNOR, VJ. Kemper 
Congrats 
FREDERICK J. LAUGHNA '33 has been appointed manager of the Eastern Sales Zone of the Airtemp Division, Chrysler Corp. He has been with Chrysler since 1933, and is based in Cedar Grove, N J . He and his wife and their eight children live in North Caldwell, N.J. 
ARTHUR L. CONRAD '35 was re­elected vice-president for public relations for the National Industrial Recreation Assn., at its convention in Denver in May. Conrad is vice-president for employee and public relations of the Flick-Reedy Corp., Bensenville, III. The association has its headquarters in Chicago. 
PATRICK R. SHEA'39 has been elected vice-president of the Southern California Gas Co., headquartered in Los Angeles. He heads the utility's sales activities in 12 coimties of California. He has been employed by the company for 18 years and has been general sales manager since 19SS. He and his wife live in San Marino. 
ROBERT J. BYRNES '44 has been named vice-president, pharmaceutical manufacturing, of Smith Kline & French Laboratories, Philadelphia. Byrnes, who resides in Devon, Pa., with his wife and nine children, formerly was director of technical services for SKF, which he joined in 1954. 
WILLIAM R. MOORE '45 has been appointed to the National Air Pollu­tion Control Techniques Advisory Committee of the U.S. Department of Health, Education & Welfare's Environmental Health Service. He had been serving in a consulting capacity. Moore is vice-president. Industrial Affairs, of Research-Cottrell, Inc., Bound Brook, N J . 
BERTRAM J. DULLY '47 has been appointed assistant secretary in the contract and legal division of the group travel department at the Travelers Insurance Companies in Hartford, Conn. He joined the company in 1947 and since 1967 has been group contract attorney. He lives in Avon, Conn. 
Insurance Co., 20 N. Wacker Dr., Chicago. FRANK J. O'ROURKE, Exec, v.-pres. Mercantile National Bank of Chicago, SSO 
W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago. JOHN P. PURDY, president of Purdy Co., 2400 W. 9Sth St, Chicago. EDWARD J. ROACH, Aud. U.S. Steel Corp., 208 S. LaSalle St, Chicago. 
CHARLES J. SCHWARZ, retired, can 
be reached at 1400 Ashland Lane, 
Wilmette, 111. 

RUSSELL J. STEMPER, assistant export 
manager General Traffic Department, Sears 
Roebuck & Co., 925 S. Homan Ave., 
Chicago, Illinois. 

GEORGE J. SWEDIE, quality assurance 
inspector. Western Electric Co., Mont­
gomery Plant, Aurora, 111. 

BERNARD J. ZIMMERMAN, adminis­
trative assistant, Hanover Insurance Co., 
175 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago. 

Hope you all noticed in the May ALUMNUS that ED SPORL was selected "Man of the Year" by the New Orleans Club. The "Man of the Year" Award also went to AUGUST VON BOECKLIN at the Western Washington Club's UND Night affair. 
EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE was the campus representative at UND Night in Erie, Pa., on April 11. 
TOM DUGAN and JOHN BROST were to go to the Northern Aire Resort in Northern Wisconsin for three days of golf on July 9. 
I received a letter on July 9 from Maribel Hayes, (Mrs. JOHN J. HAYES), advising me of the death of Jack Hayes. He died suddenly while on a camping trip in the High Sierras of Yosemite National Park with his youngest son. Mrs. Hayes can be reached at 1507 Forge Rd., San Mateo, Calif. 94402. Mis. Hayes asked to be remembered to Jack Gorman of Oak Park, III. I want to extend my sympathy to Maribel and the entire family. 
Received a letter from THOMAS E. BYRNE JR. of Philadelphia. Tom informs me that RAY BRODERICK is the Republican candidate for governor of Pennsylvania. Tom is seeking to get in touch with all men of the class of 1934 who live in Pennsylvania. He can be reached care of Krusen Evans and Byrne, Lawyers, 21 South 12th St, Philadelphia, Pa. 19107. His son, Thomas E. Ill, is also a member of the firm. 
The Alumni Assn. sent notice of more changes of address. JOHN F. CARMODY, 616 Oilman Rd., Moberly, Mo. 65270. 
Rev. JOSEPH A. GIERUT, 2732 W. 86th Place, Chicago, III. 
CHARLES JOSEPH SCHWARTZEL, 900 Houston Bank & Trust Tower, Houston, Texas 77002. 
Would enjoy receiving some news from EDWIN W. (RED) KENEFAKE. Has anyone heard from NORB MIZERSia lately. Another member of our class I'm sure many remember is DICK CHAPMAN. Is EDDIE KING still living in Canada? Would also like to know what ART CONLEY is doing in Canton, Ohio. Have not heard from RALPH ELSE in eight years. 
On July 27 the Chicago Chapter of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame held its awards luncheon here in Chicago. FRANK LEAHY was honored. GEORGE L. CONNER '48, was co-chair­man of the affair. JOSEPH KEENAN is very active with the Chicago Chapter. He is from the class of '43. 
Ed Moran 
2501 N. Central Ave. 
Chicago, lU. 60639 
'35 119 AT REUNION 
More on the 35th leimion. It's official— 
119 classmates returned—about 28 percent 
of the living members of our Class. 
Not bad after 35 years! 
During the course of the reunion I picked 
up some bits of information on some 
of the boys: 
DOM VAIRO is self-employed as an 
insurance and real estate agent in Calumet, 
Mich. The Vairos have two children and 
six grandchildren. We were surprised and 
happy to see GEORGE" MELINKOVICH 
at the reunion. "Mink" is teaching 
in L.A. and has four children. AL RUBLY 
is an adjustor with the Allstate Insurance 
Co. in Rockford, lU. FRANK VEE is 
with the office of secretary of defense in 
Bethesda, Md., and has two daughters 
and four grandchildren. ADRIAN 
WACKERMAN is with AUantic Richfield 
Co., has two married children and three 
grandchildren. 
BILL GORGEN has owned a funeral home in Wisconsin for the past 20 years, has one son and three grandsons. CHARLIE SCHILL is a director of engineering at Peabody Coal Co., Belleville, Dl. Has one son and a daughter. LOU GROSSO is in charge of estate planning and business development with the Marine Midland Trust Co. in New York. LUKE KELLY is supervisor—youth parole in the New York State Department of Social Service. Has two married daughters and one grandson. 
BOB LEE who, I believe, has,never missed a reunion—has his own company in M3­ford. Conn. The Lees have four children— two boys and a giri. BILL BERNARD is an M.D. in Springfield, III., and has four children—no grandchildren as yet FRAN DUNN is an attorney in Joliet, III. Has two chndren. ED VAN HUISSELING, our new president, is living in ML Prospect, III., and is with the Victor Comptometer Corp., has two married daughters and two grandcliildreii. LINC WURZER is president of the CPJV. Insurance Co. in Detroit Has a son and a daughter. 
I mentioned in the last issue that BOB SHANAHAN, although blind, attended the reunion. Bob is in the woodcraft business, fashioning bonis, candlesticks, gavels, etc., all handmade by Bob himself. I recommend his handiwork, having seen a few samples of it If you are interested in any of these items, whidi make ideal gifts for all occasions, write Bob at "Handmade Woodcraft," 24950 Murray, Mount Clemens, Mich. 
By the time you receive this issue the 1970 football season will be coming up fast Ed Van Huisseling ask«l me to pass on to you that tentative plans are being formed for a trip to the Southern Cal game at L.A. on Nov. 28. "Mink" Melinkovich has consented to act as liaison man on the coast to anange festivities for the '3Sers. I believe the pUns call for a visit to Las Vegas during the course of the trip, which will be during the Thanksgiving holidays. If you are interested write Ed at 203 East Bericshire Lane, Mt Prospect, HI. 60056. Of conrse, the trip is plaimed for husbands and wives. 
As a final note, I would very much 
appreciate receiving information for future 
columns. How about taking a few 
minutes to drop me a card? I particularly 
woidd like to hear from those who 
attended the reunion and from whom I 
was unable to solicit some dope while 
they were in South Bend. 
Wffliam F. Ryan 
1620 E. Washington Ave. 
Soutii Bend, Ind. 46617 
'38 VISIT BAUER ACRES JOE CALLAHAN'S visit to ND with wife Mary and son David brought TOM JORDAN, CHARLES BOROWSKI, CHUCK SWEENEY and BILL GIBBONS and wife Margaret to Bauer Family Acres for an evening of rum and reminiscence. Since Joe had roomed with BUNNY McCORMICK, whom he expects to visit in Livermore, Calif., and ED BRENNAN, the Paw Paw, Mich., man of ideas, the tales were taller than the weeds in my garden and more full of com. Ed Brennan was the one who persuaded all Badin hallers to set their radios one night to full volume to WSBT so when the station signed on the next morning just as the electricity was turned on in the hall, its theme song, the bugle call rag blasted everybody out of bed clear across the campus. Incidentally, all radios reposed in the Badin storage room for a month thereafter, courtesy of Father Mucken­thaler. 
The evening turned a bit bitter-sweet as a phone call came in from Dr. DAN MONAGHAN from Washington, D.C., where he is attached to Walter Reed Hospital telling us of the death of Dr. JAMES (JIMMY) CORCORAN on July 19 suddenly of a heart attack. Jimmy, 55, second baseman for Jake Kline and also on the football squad, was chief of the obstetrics and gynecology staff at Washing­ton Hospital Center. Jimmy and his wife Catherine lived at 4800 Sedgwick St 
N.W. in D.C. They have a daughter Catherine, and four sons, James R, Jose|4i M., James P. and Thomas M. GEORGE HOWARD and BOB EGAN were at the wake, Dan said. 
Dan said he had caUed CHARLEY CALLAHAN in Miami who was at the Dolphins' training camp—^what, not on strike? Dan's wife Betty had a stroke last January and surgery twice since, and to top it all "we didn't luck out on ND-Purdue tickets eiUier." 
I have asked Fr. JOE RACE to say a Mass for Jimmy for the Class. 
Though not a member of our class, THOMAS P. NEILL, a noted author and professor of history at St Louis U. who was on campus with us our senior year and received his master's in apologetics from ND in 1939 died of a heart ail­ment April 25. I studied apologetics with him and visited him and his wife, Agnes, and eight chfldren at their home some years ago. He received many honors including the Knights of St Gregory by Pope John XXIII in 1961. His son, James, is a Jesuit in Boston. 
Though letters are not increasing, at least a few more are phoning. WILLIAM (BILL) NOLAN in town from Chillicothe, O., called while 1 was in Vinceimes, Ind., getting my son Matt iegistered as freshinan at Vincennes U. JOHN TAYLOR BOURKE gave me a "ding" as the Britishers say. from Chicago, wanting BOB DUBOIS' local address'. John is stiU a management consultant for A.G. Carney Co., some of which he manages to do on golf courses, he indicated. JOE KUHARICH also called from Philly asking me to put in a £ood word for a friend of his seeking a job from my friend Charles O. Finley—Oakland hockey Seals— which I did. Joe said he is in charge of expanding franchises for the NFL, besides helping out friends. 

Miscellaneous scuttlebutt: WILLIAM (T-BONES) MAHONEY. Chairman of SUMMA in Arizona, and JERRY KANE, Washington chairman, did outstanding jobs, natch! Wish they would have called me when they were here—not for funds but for fun! Hall of Famer (Basketball and Badin) JOHNNY MOIR has moved from Van Wert, O.. to 762 Hamilton St., Carlisle, Pa. 
By next column I will have driven out to Salt Lake City to attend the National Legislative Conference, hopefully gathering a bit of news from '38ers on the way. But don't count on it—^you write. 
Burnett C. (Swede) Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 
•40 roENTIFY ALL BUT TWO It is impossible to relegate memories of our enjoyable reunion into the past so one can report more current news. During reunion we had special messages of regret from JOE CALLAHAN, WALT FLEM­ING and JACK HENEBRY. Unfortu­nately I did not keep a record of those men of '40 who replied early expressing their inability to make the reunion. There were numerous reasons, but I was sorry to read about those limited by their health. Let us remember all the men of '40 in our prayers, particularly those in poor health. 
BOB FROST from Michigan City, Ind., set some kind of precedent by traveling from Florida for the reunion and then rejoining his family on vacation. He is also remembered for making so much noise with his whistling (if you can call it that) Friday night that no one could hear the music provided by the committee. BILL SCHALLER returned hurriedly from his golfing in the British Isles in time to make the reunion. I believe BILL KELLEHER, attending his first reunion, closed it all up by being the last to leave town according to our information. 
In looking over the group reunion picture I am somewhat disappointed that so many of you missed it. All but two have been positively identified. If any of you can identify the handsome gentleman sitting between JIM ROGERS and CLIFF LETCHER in the first row, and the distinguished one between Boodie ALBERT and HUGH LAUGHNA in the back row i^ease let me know. I think we did a fair job in missing only two becaiise some of the shapes, sizes and hair styles have changed considerably in 30 years. 
If you have not responded to the Alumni Office questionnaire regarding the reunion, please do so immediately. Re­ceived pleasant letters from JIM MOORE, JIM METZLER. GERRY SAEGERT and JIM DONOGHUE expressing favorable opinions, now do the same for the Alumni Office, fellows. 
Since arriving in Dayton have talked 
with JOHN FERNEOING and expect to 
see many more Southern Ohio ND men 
this fall. Tom Femeding has moved from 
Arizona to Tacoma. Wash.—^address 8910 
25th Ave.. Court B. Another western move 
puts JOE HAAGA in Bellevue, Wash.— 
address 17623 N.E. 8th PI. 
RUSS JANDOLI, president of the American Society of Journalism School Administrators, presided at an awards luncheon honoring the Saturday Review in Washington, D.C., in August Dr. Russ is chairman of the department of journalism at St. Bonaventure University. 
DON SACKLEY remained in Chicago for his niece's wedding, however, Kay and I did get to the affair and saw Nancy Sackley Bigane, the bride's mother, and many other St. Mary's and ND friends. During July we visited with Bill and Ann Sheets Butler in Oeveland and once again saw many St. Mary's friends. 
Our move to Dayton was really not unexpected. I had a limited one-year agreement with ND, and since there were no openings on the accounting staff I was fortunate to make connections with the 
U. of Dayton. ND helped me determine that college teaching is exactly what I want to do, and I enjoy Iwing with the students. Kay has been a big help to me in making this change and it is wonderful to be doing something both of us enjoy so very much. 
Now, all of you who read this help me to improve our class news by sending your notes and letters to me at our new address. 
Robert G. Sanford 
1S68 Beaver Ridge Dr. 
Apartment B 
Dayton. O. 45429 
'42 MEET IN EUROPE JACK LADKY reports that on a recent trip to Europe, he bumped into JIM BURKART and his wife in the Munich airport. They were both on their way to Vienna to start their vacations—small world! MIKE CARR reports of the strong activity of the Indianapolis ND group of some of our classmates. The Man of the Year Award recipient is BILL KEN­NEDY. Congratulations, Bill, on receiving this coveted honor. FRANK QUJNN is president-elect of the group and also on the ND Senate. FRANK FOX is a director and DICK OWENS treasurer of the group. CHARLES SHIRK. 322 North Bniner Street. Hinsdale, 111., has been elected v-p of the Austin Co. and appointed manager of the company's process division in Des Plaines, lU. LEONARD MAS­TERSON. salesman for the Chicago district of United States Gypsum Co.. was hon­ored as a member of the President's Club. It is a company method of noting an outstanding salesman. 
Our condolences to the family of PHILIP J. LUCIER who was killed by an ignition-type bomb in his automobile after lunch on July 24, in Clayton, Mo. Phil, who was president of Continental Telephone Co.. the third largest independent telephone company in the country, is survived by his widow and 11 children. 
LARRY J. KELLEY is recovering beautifully from a little heart difficulty he encountered at Santa Barbara. Calif.. 
in May. He expects to return to Hooston in late July. 
William M. Kckey 
SSOO West 73rd St 
Chicago, DL 60638 
'43 HELPS 90VWV. HMWLEM 
A long ktter was received from AL 
MUENCH. 624 Winnebago Ileiijits, 
Neenah, Wis. S49S6. A! recounted his 
disappointment at times in not finding more 
news of his classmates. He then "nAbed 
the moss off his communication ability and 
it brought out the realization that he was 
part of the problem—te hadn't written 
either." After graduation in '42 he 
returned to Neenah, Wis., and worked in 
the family bowling estabCshment A three-
year stint in the Air Force followed, and 
he again returned to Neenah and the 
bowling business, "took himsdf a wife," 
and engaged in many activities: manager of 
the Neenah Ameiican Legion Baseball 
team, worked with the Community Chest 
and Red Cross groups, and served as 
president of the Wisconsin State Bowling 
Proprietors' Assn. 
liie Muenches have three chSdien, Joe 
at New Mexico State, Tim at U. of 
Wisconsin, and a dau^ter at Wis­
consin State. 
After many years in the boiriing business, 
which the family still maintains, he 
became an dectrical ajqirentice. The 
regularity of working hours has given him 
time to pursue his I^e-Iong ambition of 
being a writer and produce something that 
will make his favorite professor, 
Richard Sullivan, proud. 
In AI's words, "I truly believe that one 
of the basic distinctions inherent in 
Notre Dame men is that each of them 
can do as I am doing and write to a 
classmate or a young grad or an old grad 
and be able to spiritually communicate 
the 'good feeling' of once having lived in 
the same environment with the same 
essential wonderfiil boys who became men. 
Notre Dame men!" 
A letter from the Alumni OflEce informs 
us that the mother of CHARLES 
BAADER passed away recently. Please 
remember her in your prayers. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry Street 
Chatsworth, III. 60921 
'48 AWARD FDR PROFESSOR We don't have a lot to write about but have received some bits of news via the Alumni Office which is our main source of information. 
PETE PESOLI received an award from the St Edward's U. Alinnni Assn. where he is now a professor. DAVE GREER has been appointed to the board of trustees at Southeastern Massachusetts U. FRANK KNEELAND has been appointed resident vice president of the Firemen's Fund American Insurance Co. in Daven­port Iowa. JACK KILUAN has moved to Key Biscayne, Fla. NEILL KELXY has moved to Stratford, Conn. FRED-EARLY recently took first prize with a foursome in the annual Pro-Am of the West A%ginia State PGA tourney at Parkersburg. 
Word has been received of the death of JOHN D. HUNTER BSC48. John died in March and was living in Dunwoody, Ga., at the time. 
FRANK TRIPUCKA's son wiU be entering the University of Massachusetts this fall with Tim Bcrra, son of "Yogi." Both attended Bordentown Military School and are neighbors in Bloomfield-Montdair, NJ. 
If you think corresponding with your class secretary is a rough job, trying to get a half dozen or more of these columns together during the course of a year is no snap either. I missed a few this year but I need more than my name and address to fill the column. Next time around we'll have to find someone else with a fresh and new approach. That'll be in June '73 when we have our 25th reunion. Wonder how many are thinking that far off and what graduations, marriages, etc., will conflict with dad's class reunion. Plan everything for the end of the month and you can plan on attending the reunion without conflict 
George Keenan 
177 Rolling Hnis Rd. 
Clifton, NJ. 07013 

'49 ONE LETTER I knew this day would finally arrive—a column to prepare and only an isolated memo or two from which to draw. This is the closest I've come to an absolute "shutout"—and is disappointing. But let's see what news there is. This won't take long. 
The Alumni Office passes along to me the information that RICHARD SCHAEF­FER of Box 107, in Wheeler, Ind., has been appointed manager of the systems and statistical management unit for the CNA Insurance Co. (See how those insurance and stats classes paid off?) 
Received a letter from TOM STEWART, who is with Vogue magazine, of the Conde Nast Publications. Tom wrote from his office on Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, and mentioned how pleased he was to note the news of BILL ORMSBVs promotion to controller of Hamilton Cosco (as we highlighted it a couple issues back). Tom sent me a copy of his letter to Bill wherein he says: "After 20 or more years, I just couldn't resist taking a minute to drop you a note and say hello! Briefly, I'm here in California . . . about two years . . . with Vogue Magazine. Have wife, Rita (whom you met at the ND Senior Ball in '49) and five youngsters, ranging from 19 to 13 years of age." Tom ended with the hope that Bill will "look us up" when he gets to California. It's nice to think that the old news column does produce results once in a while. Thanks, Tommy! 
Rev. BILL NEIDHART CSC visited the Wesleys last month and we had our annual two-hand touch (?) football game. We sjdit up the Wesley boys and proceeded to teach the lads ND style. Touch, Me eye! That was an hour and a half of thud, sweat and cheers. We (Fr. Bill, Paul and I) managed to tie them (Tom, Mike and Joey), but it took me a week just to recover normal walking strides. The boys laughed it off as just another game. Fr. Bill? Played a tennis match in South Bend the next day. Not so incidentally, Fr. Bill maintains this kind of stamina by regular exercising. And here's the topper! This past season he went all the way to the semifinals in the Indiana State Handball Championships! He just won't believe the same things that our calendar tells us. 
Once again, a plea. Certainly with foot­ball season here and with the weekly ND games commanding our attention, it would be just great if you would send me a card telling me of games you i^an to see—or did see—classmates you met— or anything you feel may be newsworthy to other '49er5. Believe nie! The cupboard is bare! I need your card. Let's go, Irish! 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'50 MEMORY LINGERS ON Here's hoping you and your family and friends had a pleasant summer and are full of fall pep and plans. 
I am writing this from Quebec City vbere my Marie Patrice is attending Lavad University (a sabbatical after married to me almost 20 years) and my daughter Deb is in St Laurence College here having a ball with others of hi ^ school age studying French for the siunmer. My Mike, 11, is with Fr. Tom Feeley CSC, the perfect uncle, in Camp Glen Moira, Western Massachusetts. John is clerking in my office and taking night school in typing and speedwriting. Jane is in summer school at Coral Gables Hi ^ and working at a Howard Johnson's. And I ended up "watching the store" for the summer, except for this week of vacation I finally found. 
Fine memories of our June reunion linger now that the film is developed. TOM McHALE and JACK DONNELLY ate a little thinner on top. BILL LICHTEN­BERGER might have grown a little h^r on his dome. BOB BARRETTs ri^t arm is in great condition. With BILL SHANAHAN's increased width, I'm not sure he could climb to the top of the flag­pole on St. Patrick's Day again, but he says he can. We missed GERRY RAMSBERGER—he was a loyal father, unlike me, and stayed at home for graduation of one of his children. GENE BIITTNER and DAVE ROBINSON (and son) and FRANK CALLAHAN (and sons) well represented the Giilf Coast of Florida, however, and DICK BRODEUR did his usual good job representing Jacksonville. 
Everyone, including our two star ends, were so above reproach at the reunion that the doctors in the house (LOU HALEY, JERRY BONA, PAT DEL GRANDE, JIM and JOHN BONESSI) didn't have to prescribe any antidotes for the body nor did the clergy in the house (Fr. JOE BIDWILL, Franciscan, Dubuque; Fr. BOB GRAY, Louisville; Fr. PATRICK MALONEY CSC, and Fr. JACOB SMITH CSC, Notre Dame) need to perform any emergency measures. The oidy stomach aches were from lau^ter and good jokes. JIM SLATTERY still wins the prize for wit, with SPEED WOLFE and DICK CORDASCO running a close second. PAUL and Noiah SCHAEFFER and the BOB DAVIDs paid us a visit from the Morris Iim. RUSS SKALL is yet in a wheelchair with his fractured leg healing slowly—prayers, please. JOE FALLON looks Uke New Orieans agrees with him—as does ED McCARTHY. WOODY RICHARDS (Houston), JOHN RYAN, JACK COURTNEY, PAT PLUNKETT brought the good tAd pup tent 3Vi memories back. We might even get WALT MURPHY to the 25th reunion. GUS CIFELLI looks great. JACK CONNOR ou^t to be in the movies. BUD ROMANO'S colorful wardrobe still stands out in my mind. Some of the more efficient 
bartenders were JIM FRITSCH, BUD 
BRUNErn, ED FOLEY, PETE FRIDAY, 
FRED FRIEND, BILL WIGHTKIM. 
TOM JCHINSON—not to mention 125 
others. 
On your next visit stop and see Fr. JAKE SMITH, Retreat Director at Fatima Retreat House. 
LEN COSTANTINI is an assistant dean, 
Syracuse University. ART FRERICKS, 
CPCU, is president of Yaste, Zent and 
Rye, Inc., insurance and bonds, in 
Fort Wayne. 
Sparky Thornton 
4400 Monserrate St. 
Coral Cables, Fla. 33146 
'51 ANOTHER V-P Congratulations to PHIL FACCENDA on being named V-P and general counsel of the University. No other class has two v-p's to assist Aeir classmates in sneaking in applicants next year. 
Received a second for the nomination of 
BILL WHITESIDE from JACK VOIT, 
who lives at 627 Paddock Drive, 
Southampton, Pa. 18966. Jack married Rita 
Bradley and they have three children: 
Cathy, Laurie Anne, and John. Jack is in 
the industrial oil business serving the 
textile, leather and metal industries 
in that area. 
JIM HENNESSY now Uves at 96 VaUey Rd. in Louisville, Ky. 40204. Jim is in the insurance business and writes everything but life. He plans to attend the reunion next June and begin interview­ing prospects for his eight daughters. 
Another insurance man is BILL MOORE 
who lives at 202 Elizabeth in Bowling 
Green, Ky. 42101. Bill is V-P of a general 
insurance agency, and has received his 
CPCU. Bill and Delia have three children. 
JACK VOGT resides at 2209 West 
Lawn, in Milwaukee. Jack and his wife 
have four boys from 11 to 17 years in age. 
He is head of the Real Estate Development 
Department for Century Foods in 
Waukesha. 
AL POWERS is V-P for Development and P.R. at St. Leo College in St. Leo, Fla. The Powers have five children: Chris­tine, 9, Elizabeth, 8, Patrick, 6, James, 5, and Jeffrey, 4. 
Heard that BRUCE LAWLER was named deputy comptroller for the C&O and B&O Railroads. Bruce will be working out of Baltimore. 
JIM FLtfNN was promoted to lieutenant colonel in the USAF last year and became base comptroller at Hamilton AFB (Calif.) 8 months ago. Jim had experience in the same job in "foreign" countries such as Ethiopia and Michigan. 
JOE CREEN has a son who will be a senior at Notre Dame this fall. Joe was elected president of the board of education for the Archdiocese of Dubuque; this system covers 30 counties and has 35,000 students. 
CARL EIFERT is leaving the paper in Oshkosh to go to Washington as press secretary for Sen. Proxmire. Wait till he tastes that pizza at Gusti's! 
Apologies to BILL GRIEF, mentioned as V-P for Mead Johnson in the May-June issue. You probably realize this company has been Bristol-Myers for some time. Bill sent a track and picked up all my Metrecal. 
Start planning now for the reunion in Jime, 1971. The first annoimced door prize is a 78-rpm record of the Teddy Bears' Picnic. 

Congrats 
Jim Jennings Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 South Michigan Ave. Chicago, lU. 60604 
'53 ANY PROSPECTS? GENE SULLIVAN performed yeoman service in supplying information of our brethren he has seen about the country on his travels with the Notre Dame basket­ball team. Gene wishes any member of the class that is aware of a good high school basketball prospect to call him at Notre Dame, 219 283-6484. 1 understand that he is on the road quite a bit of the time but will return your call as soon as possible. Gene reports that JERRY McCLOSKEY is head football coach at Macomber Tech in Toledo and has been in high school coaching since his Marine discharge in 1955. STAN STASCH is sUU at the Northwestern Graduate School and HARRY SHAY is basketball coach at the Southern Connecticut State College in New Haven. LOU EMMRICK has left coaching and joined school administra­tion in Schuyler, New York. 
MIKE DOYLE is still running the family funeral parlor in New Jersey. JIM WEITHMAN is apparently selling books to high schools and is based in Wisconsin, exactly where. Gene didn't know. ED BUCZKIEWICZ has taken up residency in New Jersey so that he might sell his banking supplies for Checkmaster in the New York area. DANNY CAPARELLI is still a physical education instructor in the Albany, New York, high school circles. JIM RIHA is now a high school head coach in a Cleveland suburban area, the exact name of the school is presently unknown. Thanks for that information. Gene. TOM MARTINO has live children and is assistant director of counseling at King's College, in Wilkes Barre, Pa. This is also a Holy Cross College. JERRY HOUSE­MAN is heading up a family of nine children in Grand Rapids, Mich., as well as operating his own material handling engineering firm which provides him the opportunity to travel throughout the country, also refereeing high school football and basketball games. 
EUGENE BERGIN was named first assistant district attorney in Rochester, New York, and was in private practice prior to joining the D.A.'s staff. JON McKENZlE is now a distinguished graduate of the U.S. Naval War College in addition to his master's in foreign affairs from George Washington U. He is at the Department of Defense offices at Fort Meade, Md. RICH SCHREITMUELLER has moved to Washington, D.C., as a consulting actuary with the Wyatt Company, and helps design employer pension and profit-sharing plans. Dr. MIKE GROZIER has been named assistant clinical research director for the Squibb Company and Mike resides in Newtown, Pa. He is working on new drugs in the field of cancer therapy. Good hunting, Mike. JACK CONWAY reports that he is the holder of an M.B.A. from Michigan State and resides in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. TOM EMMA is an architect of great repute in Geneva, 111. He has his own office and has had for over 10 years. AH six of his children are now in school. Tom was recently the feature subject of an article in an architectural trade magazine as being 
GEORGE H. BURNS '48, has been appointed group controller of the Borg Textile Group of the Bunker-Ramo Corp., Delavan, Wis. With his wife and three children, he is moving to the Wisconsin area from Old Grennwich, Conn. Most recently Bums was controller of Lorillard, a division of Loew's Theaters, Inc. 
ROBERT W. NINNEMAN '48 has been promoted from executive assistant to manager-equity products by the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., Milwaukee, Wis. He joined the company in 1958 after receiving a law degree from Marquette U., and being associated with law firms in Oshkosh and Tomah, Wis. 
PAUL M. SCHAEFER '50 has been appointed vice-president, admin­istration, for the Deltona Corp., of Miami, Fla. The post will entail responsibility for personnel, purchas­ing, buildings and communications of 
the firm which is the creator of planned communities. 
EUGENE W. HOWLEY '54 has been appointed sales manager for the office equipment division of Diebold, Inc., Canton, O., manufacturer of bank and records management equipment. He joined Diebold in 1959 and has been branch manager of the Chicago office since 1965. 
MICHAEL J. MAHONEY '54 has been appointed vice-president and general manager of the NuMac Corp., a Cleveland firm specializing in the manufacture of high precision com­ponents for both aerospace and sophisticated commercial applica­tions. The Mahoneys have seven children, ranging in age £rom 11 years to 3 months. 
DAVID E. COLLINS '56 has been elected secretary of Johnson & Johnson, manufacturer of siugical dressings, baby and medical products. He joined the firm's legal department in 1962 after graduating from Harvard Law School in 1959. He lives at 857 Shadowlawn Dr., New Brunswick, N.J., with his wife and three children. 
typical of a small town professional. 
Congratulations, Tom. 
BILL KEANE reports that TOM 
KINDLER is still personnel manager in 
labor relations for an l.T.T. organization in 
Fort Wayne; PHIL CLEMENS is in the 
plastic packaging business with a brother in 
Fort Wayne; JIM LONEY is a C.P.A. and 
TRAV MCDONALD is a banker, also in 
Fort Wayne; JOHN MAHALL has a chain 
of gas stations centered in the Rockford, 
111., area; JOHN LA BAR is in money 
and banking in Cincinnati, as well as 
fathering a house full of kids; BILL 
KERWIN is on the west coast as a business 
advisor and lawyer. BOB DWYER is iii 
the plumbing business in Steubenville, 
Ohio, and the father of two boys. Thanks 
to BILL KEANE for that news. FATHER 
BARTELL reports that last year he saw 
DAVE O'LEARY and PAUL DEROSE 
at Universal ND Night in Lansing, Mich. 
Dave was club president and is undoubtedly 
still in the painting and pool room 
business, while the preoccupation of Paul 
is unknown to us. JIM O'CONNOR 
is in some form of investment banking on 
the west coast, and JACK SULICK is 
apparently lost in some desolate oil location. 
Any word from the BEAR? JIM SILK 
is in the trust department of a bank in 
Toledo and is expecting a second chDd 
soon. JIM KLINK is in the Detroit office 
of Price, Waterhouse Accounting firm 
and visits South Bend on recruiting trips, 
seeking able young graduates for 
their organization. 
A note was received from Major BOB 
MOSLEY who is still flying for the Army. 
"Was shot down in Vietnam in 1966, 
flying for the 1st Cav. Division. Six 
months in the hospital did wonders. Next 
spent a year and a half with my wife in 
Verona, Italy, before going back to 
southeast Asia. Was in North Thailand 
on return trip to southeast Asia. Now sta­
tioned at Fort Monmouth, NJ., with the 
electronics command. Odd place for an 
artillery man." Thanks for the interesting 
note Bob and a job well done. Keep 
us advised of your assignment 
The above and foregoing information was collected for the most part from South Bend sources. The last plea in the column for cards and letters went unheeded. The column can be no better than the calibre of information provided. Let's hear from all of you. 
John T. MulvihiU 
645-695 First Bank Bldg. 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
'55 ANOTHER CHANCE 
Hope to see everyone at the annual class bash in the Morris Inn after the Purdue game. For those of you who missed the 15-year reunion in June, this game will give you an opportunity to defend yourself. 

Speaking of those who missed the June fesUvities, I talked to TOM O'MALLEY on my way through Kansas City. Tom explained that his company was in the midst of an expansion and he just couldn't sneak away. He and his family were on the way to Colorado for a vacation, which didn't seem hard to take, considering I was on my way to 100-degree heat in Arkansas. FRANK MAIER couldn't make the scene because his son was graduating from eighth grade. Boy, all of you other guys certainly are getting old! 
While on the subject of BMOC, we had a good gathering on campus in June, but what happened to such illustrious guys as JOHN BENDEL, LARRY BREHL, FORST BROWN, GEORGE CARHART, WALT CLEMENS, FRANK FLORIAN, DON GELS, JIM GRIFFIN, RON KUEBER, TOM MAY, BUD LaLONDE, RON MEALEY, FRANK NEWMAN, JOHN O'MEARA, JOHN POWERS, JOE SAUNDERS, DAN SHANNON, FRANK TONINI and DON YECKEL? 

Shortly after returning from the reunion, 1 received a letter from CHARLEY REAGAN, informing me that BILL LEONARD died of cancer in May. "Bill was quite active in campus activities while at Notre Dame and was excited earlier this year about attending the 1970 reunion," Charley wrote. Bill's widow, Noreen, lives at 104 Wynnewood Dr., Abescon, NJ. Incidentally, Charley's address is 1414 Fenwick Ave., Indianapolis. 
PETE RITTEN has written to inform us that JOHN McNAMARA was kiUed in an auto accident on June 24. He had been a stockbroker in St. Paid. John is survived by his widow, Sharon, and two children. Her address is 67 Battle Creek PI., St. Paul. 
It was fitting that Rev. Daniel Curtin CSC, brother of our own JIM CURTIN, celebrated the memorial Masses on campus for Bill and John. 
Here's some info from the mailbox; GERRY SHEAHAN is at 570 DeKalb Pike, King of Prussia, Pa.; JIM SIEGER, 104 Station Rd., Devon, Pa.; FRED WHITFIELD, 6618 Wheeler Dr., Charlotte, N.C.; JIM TWOHY, 1650 S. Albion, Denver; JOHN SLAVICK, 2700 Con­necticut Ave., No. 203, Washington, D.C. (nice address for a guy bouncing around the worid with the USIA); DON SILEO, 41 Oakford Rd., Wayne, Pa.; PAUL NEWMAN, 1263 E. Hermosa Dr., Tempe, Ariz.; Dr. HAROLD OTT, 935 Woodleigh Ct., St. Louis; BOB KUNZE, 410 Spring Ave., Ridgewood, NJ.; Dr. JIM CANT­RILL, 11 Oak Brook Rd., Leominster, Mass.; MIKE COFFEY, 1170 Morgan Ct, Park Hills, Ky.; JIM BIGELOW, 223 N. 46th St, Yakima, Wash.; HARRY EDELSTEIN, 268 Manor Rd., Ridgewood, NJ. (Look up BOB KUNZE, wiU you, Harry?); and DAVE DEVLIN, CMd Queen Ann Rd., Cor Andover Dr., Chatham, Mass. 
And from the military front: LCDR PAUL KRIENKE can be reached at NATTC (CIC School), NAS Glynco, Ga.; Capt AMEEL HASHED, 2925 Kingston Ct, Peoria, 111.; LCDR HUGO HARDT, 7111 Jayhawk St, Annandale, Va.; LCDR CHARLES BENNETT, Navy Exchange, Naval Air Station, Noifcdk, Va.; Maj. BILL STAHL, Hdqtn. 6314th Support Wing (PACAF), APO San Francisco; and LCDR PAUL HARTMAN, Pac Div Nav Fac Eng Com, FPO, San Francisco. 
Read in the paper toni^t that TOM CASSIDY of Peoria is one of the key men in Adlai Stevenson's senatorial campaign. 
Dr. ED TOOMEY will be diairman of the John E. Fogarty Memorial Seminar on "The Pursuit of Excellence in the Delivery of Health Care in America" at the Boston Museum of Science on Sept 26. Rev. Charles Sheedy of the University will be a participant in the seminar, Ed reports. 
Dr. ED RHOMBERG (17340 Wndemeie, Detroit) has been promoted to the nuik of professor at the U. of Detroit He received a Ph.D. in structural engineering from Iowa State U. in 1%3. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. 
Glenview, lU. 60025 
'56 PLAN TO CELEBRATE 
Don't forget the party at the Continuing 
Education Center after the Purdue game— 
come prepared to celebrate our victory. 
Just received word that LEO LINBECK, 
JR. was elected chairman of the Associated 
General Contractors of Texas at the state 
convention in Galveston, June 25-27. 
JACK DUMAS, with Radiant Decorative 
Lights in the Bronx, dropped me a note 
about the great surprise party his wife 
Joanne gave for him in May. DICK 
O'CONNOR, of FKnt, Mich., was in NYC 
for a trade show and he, MIKE LESSO, of 
Newark, NJ., BOB McGOLDDRICK, of 
Hartford, Conn., JOHN DOLAN, of 
Bethel, Conn., and BILL BORACZEK, of 
Larchmont, N.Y. and their wives, joined 
Jack and Joanne at their home for the 
dinner party and, needless to say, a good 
time was had by all. 
JOHN V. MALONEY, of Simsbury, 
Conn., contract administrator with Com­
bustion Engineering, Inc., was among the 
recipients of a master of business admin­
istration degrees awarded recently by 
Americna International College at Spring­
field, Mass. 
JAMES J. OWENS, who has been serving 
as the Springfield Council of Churches 
president, is now lay assistant to Arch­
bishop Ignatius Strecker and community 
relations specialist for the archdiocese. He 
will be headquartered in the chancery in 
Kansas City, Kan. This position is the 
first of its kind in the midwest. 
JAMES K. DEGNAN, of Parsippany, 
NJ., has been appointed vice president of 
the United Slates Trust Co. of New York. 
JOHN A. ALLEN has been promoted to Buffalo sales manager of Branch Motor Express Co. He will be responsible for the training and supervision of sales personnel on the Niagara Frontier. 
DONALD D. CARMELITE has taken 
a position as a product development 
chemist/technical representative with Gen­
eral Electric Plastics. Don married Elizabeth 
Ann Moir of Pittsburgh, Pa. on June 27. 
RICHARD J. VAN MELE has been 
named director of legislative research in the 
Governmental and Community Affairs 
Department of Associates Corporate 
Services Co., Inc. 
Lt CoL JAMES M. HIGGINS is scheduled for assignment at Ft Monroe, Va., following his recent graduation from the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College at Ft Leavenworth, Kan. Jim was on the commandant's list 
JAMES E. MURRAY, a '56 law graduate, has assumed duties as vice-president and general counsel for the Federal National Mortgage Ass'n., Wash., D.C. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 668 Ellicott Square Bldg. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'57 MORE EX-BACHELORS Hie big news of the year has come to your class secretary's attention and only so soon after my recovery from JOHN CUSACK and BOB COYNE stepping out on the order of bachelors comes the annoimcement that No. 1 sports fan and traveler PAT SHEERIN has become engaged to a Chicago nurse, Carol Kanz. The wedding is to take idace in LaGrange, 111., on Oct. 31. Of course, this is an away game weekend. Now who can I blame when my wife, Marilyn, protests my traveling out of town for an away game? Despite 10-to-l odds being given. Bob Coyne tied the knot on June 6 in Chicago. Attending the wedding was BILL MADDUX and wife, Mary Jo; Pat Sheerin and his fiancee and the clan secretary and his wife. 
JIM SHANNON has been awarded an honorary degree from Emory U. in Atlanta. Jim is now professor and special assist to the president of Rockefeller 
U. in NYC. 
Thanks to DICK LEWIS we have some news from the southeast Dick is a partner in the law firm of McGeachy, Pope, Reid and Lewis, Fayetteville, N.C. Dick invites all of you east coast alumni who drive I-9S to Florida to stop in for a visit with him. Dick further reports that CHUCK GRACE has moved to Charlotte, N.C, where he is running things for Cummings Diesel in both Carolinas. Con­gratulations to the Lewis clan on the birth of their fourth son in May. 
Received the annual JOHN SLEVIN family newsletter and we're sorry to hear of John's breaking his leg last Labor Day. We understand he was straddling two empty beer kegs at the time. The Slevins now claim seven children, a dog and a cat. MICHAEL HYLAND is with the Rich­mond, Va., News Leader as a sportswriter. JOHN ROBINSON JR. is a general surgeon in Memphis. The Robinsons have three boys and a girl bom last Nov. 23. 
JERRY KLEIN lives in Bloomington, Minn., and is Corp. Controller for International Dairy Queen, Inc. TOM McDONALD is living in Berkeley Hgts., NJ., where he is a division Sales Mgr. for Sandoz Pharmaceuticals. Tom is the proud father of five children. 
REX BELL is an assistant District Attorney at Pendleton, Oregon. JERRY HOFFMAN was recently appointed as instructor in the Dept of Modem Languages at ND. 
JIM BOYD is living in DeWitt Mich., and the father of two children. He is with the Dept of State Highways as Super, of Recmiting and Classifications. CARL SKIFF is living in Denver where he is assistant editor of Empire Magazine, The Denver Post. He and wife Lenore have four chndren. FRANK KAUFMAN is a Marine major living in Honolulu after his return from Vietnam, receiving a bronze star. Frank and wife have six children. Frank expects to be out on the east coast soon for military school. 
Remember the Class Reimion is set for the LSU game weekend. An announce­ment wOl be made at the game as to where the cocktails will be served immediately following the game. 
George W. Groble 
111 W. Washington St Chicago, ni. 
'59 DIRECTS RESEARCH LOU MANZO has been named director of research at Baker, Watts & Co., the Balti­more investment banking firm. Lou is also director of Environmental Technology and vice-president of the Harvard Business School Oub of Maryland. PETE FINKE wrote to inform us of the death of LOU KAVANAUGH on July 3. Lou married Helen Dietz in December, 1968, and was with the Dayton, Ohio, law fiinn of HoUenkamp & HoUenkamp. Helen is expecting their first child in October. In Pete's letter he also mentioned that he is also a barrister, graduating from Salmon 
P. Chase Law School, Cincinnati, in 1968, and has been with the firm of Estabrook, Finn & McKee, in Dayton. Pete married Judith Kennerk in January, 1969, and their first child, Mary Rachel, was bom last November. Finke also reports the arrival of Sandy and PETE HACKETTs fifth chUd. 
PHIL ECKERT is practicing law in West Bend, Wis., with O'Meara & O'Meara, is married and is the happy father of two children. DENNY LEO has been appointed a vice-president of Yeger Asso­ciates, the largest bank service organization in the country. Kaye, Deimy and famfly live at 6924 W. Hannea Dr., Indianapolis 46265. BILL REILLY visited the campus during July. Bill, strong in his feelings about being a New Yorker, lives on 68th St., is an assistant to J. Peter Grace at W.R. Grace & Co., was deputy finance director for IVi years during the Lindsay administration, and is the father of 2Vi­year-old twins, who very definitely will be raised in NYC. 
BOB STROBACH is chief of staff at Bates County Memorial Hospital, has a general practice in Butler, Mo., and time to raise five children: Scott 8, Thad, 7, Kathy, 6, Christopher, S, and Ted, 2. BOB O'SHEA has been in the Army since January, 1960, is a major in the Armor and is in Vietnam. Bob married Georgie Weaver (Carson City, Nev.) in August 1964, after meeting her in Kaiserslautem, Germany, where she was teaching schooL Georgie and daughter, Susan Kay, are living in Monterey, Calif. Bob hopes to make it back for at least one game this fall. 
R.F.
 CALLAGHAN is now a vice­president—sales, for J.H. De Lamar & Son, Chicago, and moved to Arlington Heights, 111., one year ago. JOE KING is regional personnel manager for Super Dmg Stores, Inc., lives in Mt. Washington, a Cincinnati suburb, and has four children: Kristy, 8, Mike, 7, Steve, 5 and Kaiin, 1. 

F.
 WILLIAM GRAHAM'S newest daughter, Katherine Grady, was bom in July, 1969. She has two brothers and a sister, and a father who is general manager of General Mills' new fashion divisioiL 


P.E. BRAUNLICH '53, '59L has returned to private practice in Monroe, Mich., after four years as Monroe County prose­cutor. Of the five Braunlich children, the oldest is now in high school. TED AMBERG married the former Joan Marie Connelly in 1965, and 1967 saw the birth of their daughter, Andrea Marie. Ted is with I.M. Pei and Partners, Architects, and last year became an associate of the firm. The Ambergs are currently living in Dallas, where Ted is heading the branch office in charge of the design of the new Dallas City Hall Project JJV. KEHRER is now living in Latham, N.Y., with wife, the former Elaine LaChapeUe, and Jim, Jr., 7 and Diane, 6. BOB COWHEY is vice-president of Hartford-Midwest Development Corp., engaged in multi-family real estate development and is the father of three chUdiren. 
NORB KLUGA recently retired from the 
U.S. Navy as a commander, and is now manager, marketing plaiming, Raytheon Co., 
Commumcations and Data Processiiig operation. He has a new address at 26 Snyder Rd., Medfidd, Mass. JIM DORSEY. back from Vietnam for IVi years now, retnmed with a bronze star and the rank of major and Is currently sta­tioned at the Pentafon. Jim and Harriet have five dam^ters: Val. 11, Patty, 9, Betty Loo, 8, Terry Ann, S and Jeamnarie, 3. 
Help! I need news! Hopefully, the Purdue game, and the '59 reunion after­wards at the Morris Inn win provide a few tidbits, but we need to hear from you! 
Joseph P. Mnlligan Adniissions Office Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6 
'60 A DECADE LATER Ten years?! It could have been 10 days! Did not notice many changes in the silent majority of the fifties. There were, of course, exceptions. The university's physical itoit is growing rapidly and will hopefully contribute to developing that "excdlence" at which we once scoffed. Unforttmatdy the oidy way to describe the meals is that they were as bad as '56 and as good as '60! 
There were iimumerable inebriates, some old, some new. One sober body walked off with my yearbook £n>m the registration 
f desk. I saw the gentleman but assumed he was borrowing i t As there were class papers and notes in same, I would like it returned now—not in five years. 
Your new officers are: president. RON SOWERS; regional vice-presidents, ED CORNELIA, East Coast; Rev. RIVERS PATOUT HI, Southem; TOM GRO­JEAN, West Coast; treasurer, BOB KEELEY, and secretary, yours truly, periodly periodical. 
A few comments by a participant: "'Student Power" were obviously code words designed to attract listeners from amongst the alumni to the seminars. The graduating senior class president repeated his rhetorically superb commencement address. The incoming senior class secre­tary and outgoing hall presidents council chief updated the alumni about current attitudes, activities and interests of the ND student body. These deaiKnrt, earnest chaps came across well to those of us from the dass of '60 who were curious enou^ to come and listen and question. We of '60 found oursdves in step with '70 and outraged by a drca '50 (lAo got the loudest applause) type in his darion call for a return to repressive imposed disdi^ine and the good 'old time refigion.' In fact the ideas we had discussed so vigorously in our quiet almost motibimd (so you would now think) years are now all realities, to wit: sensible student rules, a student responsibility commensurate with maturity, active partidpation in curriculum evaliution, an earnest awareness of the problems of country and ND. I don't for a minute bdieve the students we heard were typical of the 'average,' because I don't bdieve such a student exists . . . or ever did. In any event old ND is still hanging in there—see you all in five more 
years. Today's student could use a bit more tolerance of others' ideas and some humility—but then so could some ahmmL 
"I thorou^y enjoyed the wlide week­end. A reunion is, after all, a recollection of the good, the memorable, the ideasant of what was past and a renewal of understanding of the piesent—an bound np 
Congrats 
JOHN A. KEHOE '58 has been named manager of chemical opera­tions at Eli Lilly and Co.'s Clinton (Ind.) Laboratories. Since 1969 he has been manager of general chemical manufacturing at the firm's Tippecanoe Laboratories near Lafayette, Ind. 
F. WILLIAM GRAHAM '59 has been appointed a vice-president of General Mills, Minneapolis, Minn. He has been general manager of the firm's Fashion Division since it was formed last year. He joined General Mills in 1964 as a member of the treasurer's department and has held several positions in the Consimier Foods Group. 
JOHN E. McGRATH '59 has been elected vice-president of Booz, Allen & Hamilton. He is located in the Cleveland office and resides in Shaker Heights. He joined the firm in 1963 following management experience with IBM after receiving 
an M.S. degree from the Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
PAUL B. BERETZ '60 has been promoted by Union Carbide Corp., to credit manager of the firm's Western region, with headquarters in San Francisco. Before joining the San Francisco office in 1967 he had been in the corporation's New York and Atlanta credit offices. He resides in Novate, Calif. 
THOMAS A. TAFELSKI '61 has joined Science Management Corp., Moorestown, N.J., as vice-president for corporate development. He had been assistant vice president in the general development division of 
W. R. Grace & Co., after serving as a supply officer in the Strategic Air Command. 
MICHAEL F. MURRAY '62 has been named manager of contract services in the nuclear equipment department at the Babcock & Wilcox Co.'s power generation division head­quarters, Barberton, O. He joined the company in 1968. In 1969 he received a juris doctor degree from the U. of Akron. 
in a lot of conversation, some trivial, 
a bit even profound, with old classmates 
—old friends and new friends in old 
familiar faces. Shalom." BILL 
SCHECKLER, M.D. 
An I will say is many thanks to Bill for his comments. I would, on behalf of the officers and the class, extend our most sincere gratitude to those of you who so generously donated to our class fund. It is presently operating in the Amalgamated Bank of Chicago and has paid some bills already. More formal thanks will be forthcoming in the near future. Also the awards which were to be made Friday evening will be announced and maned later. 
Keep those cards and letters ROLL-ing in, people! Fan Reumon—Army—Oct 10, 1970, Shamrock Room, Morris Inn. 
Thomas J. O'ConneU 
33S0 EvereU Rd. 
Lake Forest, lU. 
'61 IN PRINT 
Almost everyone likes to see his name in print If you would Uke to see your name (or the name of a classmate) blazing away in ALL CAPS, it's easy. You don't have to get arrested or elected mayor to rate this honor. Just write to our duly elected class secretary, BILL HEN­NEGHAN, with news about yourself or your ND friends. I must admit that during my nine years in the "real" world, I didn't write BiU. Not a note. Chalk it up to modesty or apathy or what have you. But now I'm sitting in the editor's chair of this magazine. And one of my duties is to see that as many classes as possible are represented in the class notes section. If BiU doesn't hear from you, then he has nothing to send me. And I have to write the whole '61 column. That's the price I'm paying for never writing the class secretary. 
I do have a few names to toss out, though. JOE PICHLER and his wife. Sue (SMC '61), paid Nancy and me a visit before we abandoned South Jersey for the heartland. Joe spent the last year and a half in Washington, D.C., working as a staff member in the Department of Labor. At the end of the summer he returned to the U. of Kansas in Lawrence, where he teaches. The Pichlers have three children, two giris and a boy. Also in the D.C. area is TERRY SHEA, award-winning reUgion writer for the National Observer. His wife, Pat, is expecting their third child this faU. They just moved into a new house in Silver Spring, Md. AL GOOT is keeping the worid cool, working for the York Division of Borg-Wamer in Boston. Al is married and has two sons. He's living in his home town, Ipswich, Mass. BRIAN REGAN, of the ND Foundation o£Sce, reports meeting DENNY PETRILLO and DICK. FOX on a recent trip to Wilmington, Del. Denny is real estate manager for SheUpot Realty in Wilmington and Dick works for DuPont. Brian now represents the East Coast as weU as the Midwest for the Foundation. If he comes your way, watch it if he tries to get you into a golf game. He and his partner are leading the ND golf league competition. 
TOM MUSIAL, who teaches at ND and helped give birth to the Black Studies Program here, tells about it in the Spring issue of INSIGHT. TOM MARGRAVE is asst. prof, of physics and astron­omy at the U. of Montana. BILL WOLTER received his J.D. degree last June from the John Marshall Law School, Chicago. 
The new ND National Alumni Directory is now off the presses. It's a heavy book, listing more than 30,000 names, addresses and occupations. Telephone numbers, even. Ma Bell rejoices. But the directory will never replace class notes. So write to the class secretary: 
Bill Henneghan 
30556 Scrivo Dr. 
Warren, Mich. 48092 
'62 MEET AT EACH GAME 
Hope many of you get back to the campus this fall. As in previous years—no official reunion game—rather a meeting around the putting green of the Morris Inn before and after every home game. I'm amazed at the number of guys who show up at these informal gatherings. You guys from Chicago, make sure you check in before heading back. 
Random News: ED SPORL was named "Man of the Year" by the ND Club of New Orleans. BARRY RYAN was appointed security director for General Telephone of Kentucky in Lexington. DAVE SCALISE is in the commercial loan department of the Detroit Bank & Trust. That may be good to know for those of you in the Detroit area who are now feeling the pinch of tight money. Dr. ROBERT GWADZ is at Harvard working as a Research Fellow in Tropical Public Health. BOB BENNETT is the federal and state aid coordinator in Buffalo for H.E.W. FRANK. DUDA is a senior attorney for Allstate Insurance in Northbrook, Illinois. TOM D'ANNUNZIO is presenUy operating two retail pharmacies in Schenectady, New York, under the name of Rock Garden Pharmacy, Inc. Tom's family includes twin girls and a six-year-old son. Dr. BOB O'LEARY is section head of Toxicology in the Ethicon Research Foundation in SommervUle, New Jersey. JAIME FOSTER is the dean of students at the University of Puerto Rico's Rio Piedras Campus. Jaime watches over more than 26,000 students. 
As promised in my last column, the rest of this column will concern itself with those classmates residing in a few states East of California. The roll call for Wis­consin reads as follows: Madison—TOM BULL, DICK CHRISTIE, JOHN DAILEY, CHARLIE KELSEY, FRANK MAERSCH and DAN OMILIANOWSKL Racine— MIKE GRUBBER and BOB HAMILTON. Mawaukee—Dr. BRIAN KENNEDY and JIM RHODES. Wflmot—ALEX KRIS­TINE. Whitewater—BOB LAFAYETTE. Manitowoc—JOHN ZIMMER. Fond-du-lac—BILL CARY and LEO KRZYKOW­SKL Brookfield—DICK BOEMER. Marshfield—JIM ALEXANDER. 
From the great state of Minnesota come: St. Paul—JERRY BOLDVIC, Dr. JIM DANIEL, GEORGE HAUCK and FRANK SCHLICK. Minneapolis—LUD GART­NER. MIKE HARRON, BILL KLEIN and JOHN TRACY. Hastings—ROGER BREKKEN. St. Qoud-TOM HECOMO­VICH and DAVE STRUTZ. Minnetonka— PAUL LALIBERTE. Mankato—JOHN REGAN—Lakefield—CLAY SCHULZ. 
Stillwater—JERRY SCHULZ. Rochester— 
Dr. GARY TOWNSEND. Mahtomedi— 
CRAIG VOLLHABER. I have no record of 
JOE CULLIGAN or MARK GOLDSMITH 
and am wondering if they're still in 
Minnesota. 
Hope to see many of you at a 
game this fall. 
H. James Krause 8301 Garfield St Bethesda, Md. 20034 
'62L MOVING TIME 
It's time for a move as they say. Nancy 
Gould sent along a nice note saying 
that they were about to move into their 
new "English Manor type" home in Grand 
Rapids and that the JAMES STUCKOs 
and the GEORGE McANDREWs were 
moving into their new homes in Chicago-
land. Nancy also said that they were 
getting ready to entertain the JOHN 
COSTELLOs over the July 4 weekend and 
relive some (I hope not all) of those 
old funny times. 
On the legal side, RALPH H. WITT, after eight years of private practice with an Atlanta firm, has opened his own office in Atlanta. His address is 2614 First National Bank Tower. I, too, have gone through a few moves during the last few months. In February I resigned after five years as an assistant U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York to become an assistant deputy mayor for the City of New York. In April I resigned from the latter to become campaign director for Bob Morgenthau in his quest for the governorship of New York. In Jime, after Bob's race was aborted, I served as special counsel to the house of repre­sentatives" select committee on crime and helped to arrange this committee's hearings, which were held in New York City, on the heroin problem. In July 1 opened my own firm in Manhattan. Next year's tax return should be a beaut. 
Paul K. Rooney 
Suite 1457—^The Lincoln Building 
60 East 42nd St 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
'63 ON THE MOVE The MIKE QUEENANs are residing in Albuquerque, N.M., with their three children. Mike recently was promoted to trust officer at the Albuquerque Bank. The JOE SCANLONs are living in Rochester, Minn., where Joe is a resident at the Mayo Clinic. Joe has two children now. Dr. TOM SCHLRETH wiU serve as a faculty fellow at the Newberry Library in Chicago this next academic year. He is currently at Grinnell College in Iowa. RON MASTEJ writes from Detroit where he's lawyering along with fellow legal type LARRY MORGAN. Larry is woridng for the city of Detroit JAMES DUNCAN was recendy named sales manager for Weyerhaeuser's shipping container division in Rockford, ID. MIKE ROHR is an assistant professor of psychology at Tennessee Tech U. He has a son, bom last December. ED HACKETT is working as an ele­mentary counselor with the Michigan City area schools. JOHN DELEE is working for Farmall Works, International Harvester Co., Rock Island, 111. He has 
four duMien now. JOHN cnERMIIXER is living in EI Paso, Tens, with faoiy, including two duldren. He is president of Texas J. Men's Wear Retafleis. Legal bea ^ Panl Tsdmiiart reports in from Alexandria, Va., mitae he's lawyering. Evidently Bob Bartde, Hany Fleck, LARRY SHUBNELL and JIM DAANTEY are an in the area also. 
NICHOLAS R. VUCICH has joined Johnson * Johnson Health Care ifirisicMi as assistant promotions director. He and his wife and two children live in Lakewood. NJ. 
E. JAMES WEBER has joined Ralston Puiina Co.'s Checkerboard Foods Division as ptodua manager for Food Service Marketing. He will be headquartered in St Louis. 
IHOMAS E. HARVEY has been 
awarded the SOver Star for gallantry in 
action irtiile serving as senior adviser to the 
2nd Airborne Div. Army of the RepoHic 
of Vietnam. 
VS. Air Force Capt JOHN T. PEHLER, 
Jr. has received his third thnragh ei^th 
awards of the Air Medal and the Viet­
namese Gallantry Cross with SOver Star. 
DAVID M. COOTER has been named manager—advertising and sales promotion for GE's Information Systems Programs Deputy Division. 
U.S. Air Force Capt JAMES R. MARK has been awarded an M.S. degree in education by the U. of Southern Califomia extension branch in Athens, Greece, where he is assigned as an auditor in the office of the USAF auditor general at Athenai Airport 
I hate to comi^ain, fdlas, but the mail is slowing down. If something dramatic has happened recently, write it in. If not then dream something up and write it iiL 
Tom Hotopp 
55 Churchm PI., R.D. No. 1 
Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 
'64 NAMES AND PLACES STEPHEN J. CULLITON, who is employed as senior financial analyst by the United States Gypsiun Co., received a JD degree from the John Marshall Law School, Chicago. 
ROBERT R. MacDONALD, a PhJ>. candidate at the U. of Delaware and holder of the Hagley FeUowship, is one of 23 museologists chosen to attend the 12th Annual Seminar for Historical Administta­tots in WiUiamsburg, Va., this siunmer. He formeriy was curator for the Mercer Museiun in Doylestown, Pa. 
VS. Air Force Capt GREGORY H. BRADFORD has received three awards of the Air Medal at Moody Air Force Base, Ga., where he is taking pilot training in the 3550th Student Squadron of the Air Training Command. Earlier he served six months in Vietnam. 
JAMES B. OLIVER Jr. is working as a commimity relations officer with the City of Norfolk. Va. Prior to this jc4> Jim was with WTAR Tdevision covering gcvemment and politics as wdl as pro­ducing docimientaries. Jim and his 'wife, Mary, have two daughters. LEONARD 
S. IX^MINELLO has been appointed as branch manager of GAB in Warsaw, Ind. Leonard and his wife, Mary Beth, have a new dau^ter. Maria Thetese. 
GEORGE W. QUITER HI is engaged to Marilyn Aime Hurst of Des Mcanes, Iowa, 
and they are planning a fall wedding in San Francisco where George is employed with Dow Chemical Co. as a sales engineer. TOM GOBERVILLE graduated from Northwestern Medical School in June and will intern at the U. of Miami Medical School in Miami, Fla. Tom and his wife, Linne, have two children. 
TOM MacDONALD is a stockbroker 
for Dean Witter and Co. in Newport 
Beach, Calif. 
BILL PFEIFFER graduated from Northwestern Law School two years ago and is working for a law firm in Los Angeles, Calif. 
JACK BARNARD is a general manager for a radio station in San Diego, Calif. He and his wife, Marianne, have four children. FRANK BUDKA has moved to Pompano Beach, Fla. He and his wife, Carol, have two children. . 
JIM McGRATH III was married in 
April to Ann Everett in Greenville, N.C. 
SAM MIRABITO and his wife, Mary, 
are living in San Diego, Calif. Sam is a 
broker with Shearson, Hammell and Co. 
MIKE KEALY, his wife, Sylvia, and their three children reside in La Mesa, Calif. Mike is vice-president of the John Kealy Co., and is president of Collegiate Marketing Services. Also in the San Diego area is TIM MORRISON, a vice-president with the C.H. Tripp Co., manufacturers of antique paint kits. 
BILL PETERSMARK, wife, Julie, and their two children are in the Detroit area where Bill is practicing law. BILL CHAP­MAN and his wife, Sally, reside in EI Paso and have two children. Bill is working for Texaco in the labor manage­ment relations field. 
JOHN J. McCABE Jr. has been made a law partner for Jones, Baxley, Crouch and McCarty in San Diego, Calif. Jack and his wife, Geri, have two children. MIKE BURNS recenUy was decorated posthumously by the U.S. Army. Mike was killed in action leading a squad of Green Berets in Vietnam. 
Clay Stephens 
206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, NJ. 07023 
'65 WORD FROM DOCTORS 
CARL GIOMBETTI is doing a pediatric residency at the Albany Medical Center Hospital and DON ZONE is serving a medical residency at the Rochester General Hospital in Rochester, N.Y. Don and wife, Mary Lou, have had a new family addition, Lisa Catherine, since July. BILL McGUIRE and his wife, Nancy, have two daughters: Kathleen Ann (3) and Colleen Dempsey, bom in January. Bill keeps busy running the Hoyne Funeral Homes in Dayton, Ohio. 
PHIL HALEY and his wife. Sue, also have two children: John Hardwick (2) and Ann Marie (1). In July Phil began a four-year residency in orthopedics at the U. of Minnesota. 
CHUCK LORENZEN is putting the fin­ishing touches on his Ph.D. in aeronautical engineering at Notre Dame and living in South Bend with bis wife, Mindy. 
After teaching for three years in the FnglUh department at Xavier U. where he picked up an M.B.A. in marketing and an M.A. in English, STEVE HUDSON has been appointed the assistant director of admissions in charge of graduate student admissions at Ohio State U. Steve also will be teaching some sectioiis for 

the English department 
JIM BOLAND and wife, Denise, have 

three children: Tracy, Shannon and 
Heather and are living in Grand Rapids 
where Jim is doing a pediatric residency. 
After receiving his J.D. in 1968 from the 
U. of Cincinnati, DAVE BURNS moved to Columbus as an assistant attorney general for the State of Ohio under Paul Brown. 
JOHN KLUDING has bought a house in Berea, Ohio, and is working in nearby Strongsville as a food technologist for the Glidden-Durkee Co. John and wife. Sue, have two children, Patricia Machelle (3) and Jennifer Ann (2). PAT WARD is working for the Lyons, III., law firm of Aplon, Bennett, Alexander and Levine after receiving his J.D. in June from the John Marshall Law SchooL 
CHARLES BUCKLEY OSB, member of St. Gregory's Abbey, has completed his work on master of divinity at St Louis U. and was ordained in June. This year he initiates a Ph.D. program in mathematics education at Teachers College, Columbia U., for which he has been awarded the Tilestone Scholarship. 
After completing his Navy tour, MIKE DONOVAN received an M.B.A. from Stanford and was married to Susan Gardner in Beeville, Texas. Mike has accepted a position with the L^ d Indus­trial Investment Co. in New York City. NASS CANNON is serving a medical residency at the U. of Alabama in Birmingham, and JIM GUETZ is serving a pediatric residency in Cleveland, O. at the Case-Western Reserve University Hospital. 
As can be surmised from the length of this column, there is an apparent paucity of class news available. Please nudce an efibrt to correct the problem by for­warding to me any current information on you or your classmates. 
James P. Hamisch, M.D. 3700 Buford Highway, Apt 98 Atianta, Ga. 30329 
'66 TRAVEL REPORT Filling in some '66 news again in Dick's absence. During my spring travels for the University I ran into BUCKY McGANN and TOM BORNHCHtST, both of whom are working in the Palm Beach, Fla., area. I believe Bucky is in recreation work and Tom is coaching basketball at the local Catholic high schooL BILL ZLOCH is in the construction business in Ft Lauderdale and TOM NEWMAN, formerly of Cincinnati, is initiating a law practice in the Miami area. 
Classmate DON BOUFFARD in the ND Athletic Department has heard news of more of our guys. He says KEVIN O'NEIL of basketball fame is working with TWA in the NYC area and that DENNY DALY recendy received his law degree from the U. of Minnesota. JIM HARBISON informed Buck that he and his wife have moved to CoSeeville, Kaa, where he is working as a computer analyst for a small oil firm. LARRY KOVACS was recenUy married in Perth Amboy, NJ.—^to whom we don't know. JOE PAGERINO is working for IBM in NYC, wbSe former football manager TIM KNIGHT is teaching in Chicago's inner dty. The remaining third of the "tremendous trio" that shepherded the football team, JIM WALSH, is training Navy pilots in Florida, according to Don. 
Heard that BOB MEEKER of footbaU 
fame, is now the assistant prosecuting 
attorney for Summit County, CHiio, which 
includes the Akron area. BILL WOLSKl 
also of gridiron renown is in the real 
estate business in Atianta. 
Ordination of Rev. Mr. STEPHEN C. 
GIBSON CSC was scheduled for July 31 
in Virika Catiiedral, Fort Portal, Uganda, 
East Africa, with Most Rev. Vincent J. 
McCauIey CSC, bishop of the diocese 
of Fort Portal, as the ordaining prelate. 
After graduation Fr. Gibson studied 
theology for two years at Foreign Mission 
Seminary of Holy Cross, Washington, 
D.C., and returned to ND in 1968. For 
the past year he has continued his studies 
in Uganda while assisting in the missions 
there. He expects to remain in the missions. 
That's about the size of the news I 
can come up with. Drop Dick a line 
and let him know your whereabouts and 
what you're up to these days. 
Keep in mind that class get-together following the Army game in a few short weeks. We'll all meet in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn following the game. Plan now—if you already haven't— to be with us. Reunion "71, our first big five-year blast is now well within sight so it would be wise to commence planning for it now. You'll be hearing from class president JOHN BUCK concerning the details throughout the coming months. In the meantime get together with as many of the Men of '66 in your area as you can and plot your course to South Bend for June 11, 12 and 13, 1971. 
Tom Sullivan for 
Richard H. Angelotti 
8640 S. 86th Ave., Apt 203 Justice, 111. 60458 
'67 NEW VOICES 
Our moment has arrived: last issue's request for more "new voices", has been granted. Thanks, guys, and keep the news coming! 
MIKE HANPETER informs us that his new, but temporary, home is Worms, Germany. Following graduation he returned to ND for grad school obtaining an M.A. in International Relations in August 1968. Since then Mike has entered active duty on the "big green team" (Spring '69) and tied the banns of matrimony with Ronnie Lynch (SMC '68) in June of the same year. Mike has spent his tour of duty with Ronnie so far in Germany and plans to enter law school upon com­pletion of his military obh'gation. As a final note, Mike says he has seen many ND people during his stay in Germany which include the following classmates: BILL GILES, TOM CHOLIS and his wife, the former Nancy Sheeran (SMC '68), BILL BOKAN, JOHN GAZDAYKA and KEVIN LYONS and his wife, the former Roseann Van Gelderen (SMC '68). 
MIKE KING, that infamous fiver of tiie Irish swimming team, reports from Long Binh, you know where. Mike mentions that after graduation he received an M.B.A. degree from the U. of Pitts­bui^ and then was inducted in the Army. Following his militaTy service, Mike dedres to follow up on his acceptance into the U. of Pittsburgh Law School this September. 
JOE STANLEY SMITH (would you believe that we had six Smiths in our dass?) reports that he is now a married 
man. Joe met his wife, the former Elaine Unser, while he was seeking his M.B.A. degree from Washington U. in St. Louis, which he received in August of '68. Since then he's graduated from pilot training (USAF) and has just completed the F-lOO upgrading course at Luke AFB, Ariz. He is soon en route to "do his thing" at Tuy Hoa A.B., South Vietnam. Joe also informed us that BOB PLE­BANEK and CoUeen just had a baby boy— Kenneth Anthony—and Joe's the god­father. Bob's stationed at Ellsworth AFB, S.D., but is expecting a three-month tour of duty in Asia. Joe also had a chance to visit with LOU GASPERIC and TIM McCASKEY (plus their wives) at his wedding. Lou is about to finish up law school at the U. of Illinois and Tim is an accountant in Chicago. Joe's permanent address is R.R. 2, Assumption, 111. 62510. 
FRANK HONERKAMP dropped us a 
line from New York City and informs 
us that he has a son 13 months old. 
Frank will receive his M.B.A. in December 
from St John's U. As of the end of May, 
Frank becomes a home owner in East 
Rockaway, Long Island, which gives his 
family lots of room for expansion. 
BOB ANTUS informs us that he has been 
serving with the Army in Vietnam since 
last November as a Specialist 4. Prior 
to his military commitment. Bob gained his 
master's degree in English from 
Northwestern U. 
JoAnn and I are still reminiscing over 
our two-week trip in May to Mexico City 
and Acapulco. Fascinating country; 
fabulous people! 
"New Voices"—continue making 
thyselves known. 
Jack Buttler 
4023 Elaine Place South 
Columbus, O. 43227 
'67L ABSENCE NOTED 
Had the pleasure of talking with GREG NASKY after his return from Vietnam. Capt. Nasky is stationed at Ft. Lewis and he and Rosanne are just getting settled at 16301 Spanaway Loop Rd. (Box 16I6B) Spanaway, Wash. 98387. Greg is a trial attorney doing more prosecuting than defending. He's also been selected to attend the JAG Judge School at the U. of Virginia this August. Greg is due to be released in 1971 but is not sure what part of the country he'll settle in 'though he's leaning toward the West. 
JOHN BLASI dropped me a line when he noticed my column was missing from one issue. Perhaps there's a lesson in that. John was released from active duty with the Navy JAG in July. Now he's practicing with Jacobs, Williams & Mont­gomery in Chicago. 
I also managed to talk with LOU JACHNICKY. He spent his Army service in Germany and Vietnam, returning to the States this past March. Lou was a captain in the M.P.'s and he did much spadework for congressional investigations. After separation from the service he joined the ICC as a trial attorney, dealing mostly with the criminal aspect. His address: 4921 Seminary Rd., Southern Towers, Apt. 1521, Alexandria, Va. 22311. We hope Lou will drop in on us when he gets back to New Haven to visit his folks. 
I'm keeping a file on addresses for our class. Help me keep it current. If you're trying to locate someone, peiliaps I can help. 
Jim Heinhold 
16 Morris Rd. 
East Haven, Conn. 06513 
'68 VIETNAM REPORTING Congratulations to RICH and Rosina CA­LONE on the birth of a baby girl. Heather Marie, bom on April 23. BOB and Donna PTAK have added to their brood with the birth of Michelle Karen on May 
27. LEN and Pat NIESSEN are proud parents of Colleen Mary, bom on April 23. 
RICH CALONE informs me that DAVE ZELL and TIM TIDGEWELL are both in Vietnam. Dave is stationed at Long Binh and is due home in Jidy and will start at Wharton School of Business in August Jim is also due home in July and will return to work with Arthur Anderson & Co. Rich and TIM CONNOLLEY are still at Santa Clara Law School. The stork has paid a visit to MIKE McGILL's wife with the birth of Mike Jr. 
MIKE KARNES has joined the firm of Fry Consultants Inc. after receiving his 
M.B.A. from Harvard University. LEN NIESSEN is a systems engineer at Honeywell Computer Control Division in Framingham, Mass. BOB PTAK and BILL BALSIS are both members of the Army with Bob in Finance at Ft. Knox and BiU with MACV ADV TM 96 in the Delta area of Vietnam. 
The Air Force seems to have its share of our class. Second Lt EMIL TEJKOWSKI is a communications officer assigned to Grifiiss AFB, N.Y. Lt RON LANG­MACHER is on duty at Udom Royal Thai AFB, Thafland. Lt. JOHN TARASCIO was honored by the Outstanding Americans Foundation and will be honored in the 1970 "Outstanding Young Men of America." John is currently stationed with the 4th Combat Support Group at Johnson AFB, N.C. 
I received a nice letter from JIM O'ROURKE who informs me that he received his Master of Science in Commu­nication from Temple University. During the summer Jim will be teaching at the Communications Centre in Dublin, Ireland. Jim also tells of the marriage of BILL FOLEY to the former Miss Lucinda Mabley on June 27 in Grosse He, Mich. Lt TOM WARNER j.g. is serving aboard the U.S.S. Waddell off the coast of Vietnam and Air Force Lt. DAVE POMPO is at Whitman AFB, Missouri. 
Since this will be my last column from Vietnam all further information should be sent to my home address. 
Sp.S LJ. Pellecchia 259 No. 17th St Bloomfield, NJ. 07003 
'68L FAMILIES GROW 
It must be that time of year again. Rosemary and PETE KING added Sean Peter to the family on July 1, 1970. Sean weighed in at 6 pounds 4 ounces. The 
IVAN BODENSTElNERs had another girl, Jill, around June. STEVE MADONNA is now working on an LLM in taxation at night at N.Y.U. My informer was apparently mistaken when he told me that LARRY MILLER was working for the state attorney general. Larry informs me that he is working for Prudential Insurance and, just to keep from feeling like a copK>ut is doing some volunteer work for the New Jersey Public Defender. 
PAT, Dune, and Kimberiy PACELLA 
have left the Mies behind and moved to 
Dayton, C , iriiere Pat is a member of 
the Cbemical Patents Department of the 
NatioDal Cash Register Co. lliey have 
purchased a home in southern Dayton and 
Pat got a chance to talk to BUD SEALL, 
n ^ helped arrange the title search for the 
house. Pat has nm into OWEN LOPEZ, 
JERRY RAPIEN and BOB SIDMAN 
on NCR's 36-hole golf course. The life 
of a corporate lawyer is really rough. 
A post card from JIM COOLING 
indicates that he is now aide-de<amp to 
the U.S. commander, BetliiL Jim is 
finishing up his tour with the Army in 
Berlin and plans to live in Europe for a 
wfaOe before coming home. TOM CURTIN 
is reportedly the star of the Morris 
County lawyers' softbaU team. 
JOHN and Sue SCRIPP managed to make it to New York for a couple of days while John was between jobs. Hiey have decided to stay in Milwaukee, and John has accepted a position with the firm of Whyte, Hirschboeck, Minahan, Harding, and Harland in that dty. John and Sue have celebrated the move by purchasing a home, so they plan to stay in Milwaukee for a while. Aside from nearly becoming involved in a riot in Greenwich Villaee and bumping into some of the city's less savory characters on their walking tours, their trip to New York was an enjoyable one. However, I have the strange feeling they were eager to return to Milwaukee. 
Keep in touch. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
7816 Lisa Dr. 
Norfolk, Va. 23518 
'69 OLD FRIENDS AT WEDDING There has been little word from you, my fellow classmates, these last few weeks. However, Patsy and I had a great opportunity to see old friends and faces during the course of our wedding/vacation in late June. Present in South Bend were the chief, MATT DWYER, Sue and JIM STARSHAK, Kathy and GEORGE BURGETT, ZEP FRANTIN, Sue and ZEP KENNEDY, Pat and JIM ZAK, and TONY SIEMER. Tony spent several days visiting with us in and about the South Bend vicinity. 
Sandi and TIM McLAUGHLIN hap­pened to be in town for the wedding of Tim's brother, Tom. Puma looked us up to say that he is very pleased with his job in the city. Surprisingly enough, Zep Frantin. with whom Hm works, says that he is getting tired of the "rat race" of the city—atid Zep Kennedy says he is happy to have moved from NYC to upstate New York. 
While passing through part of the East, we visited briefly with the Dwyers and AL REED in Newport R.I. By the .time of this writing. Matt and AI will have been captains in the Marine Corps for some time, and will have finished Naval Justice SchooL Matt's new assigimient win be in Georgia, but AI, at his request has received a JAG assignment in CHdnawa. 
Unto next letter, I anxiously await word from those of you remaining in the Silent Majority. When next passing throu^ Denver, i^ease note our new address. 
Scott Atwell 
lOSO Lafayette Denver, Colo. 80218 
Proj. Walter M.-Langford (left) with Thomas C. Mann LLD '64 and Ricardo C. Leon '44 at dedication of new U. of America's campus, Puebla, Mexico. 
Our men in Anahuae 
Two semesters of study in Mexico started in mid-August for 19 ND and SMC students upon their arrival there for orientation in the Foreign Study Program. 
With Walter M. Langford Sr. '30, professor of modem languages, as ND representative, the program has been transferred this year to Universidad Anahuac at the edge of Mexico City. Last year it was held at Universidad del Valle in Cali, Colombia. Lang­ford also had charge of a summer program for ND graduate students at Anahuac. 
The ND visitors will live with Mexican families since the seven­year-old Universidad Anahuac has not yet completed dormitories. In some homes they will be with Mexican students. The courses to be taken will include the regular university subjects of literature, philosophy and history plus some additional work in social sciences and history. 
The courses will be taught in Spanish by Langford and the faculty of Anahuac. Most of those taking part in the program are sophomores with a few juniors and seniors. Those successfully completing the work will return to ND and SMC for their junior year with no delay in their academic progress. AH were required to be proficient in Spanish and to take a year's course at ND in prepara­tion for participation in the program. 
Francisco Moreno, assistant profes­sor of modem and classical languages, who has had charge of the preparatory program at ND, visited Anahuac in August and is scheduled to relieve Langford there next year. 
Other groups in the foreign study program go to Angers in France, Innsbruck in Austria, Tokyo and Rome. The program is offered for students in the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Business Administration and SMC. 
The Universidad Anahuac is oper­ated by the Legionnaires of Christ, a congregation of Mexican origin. 
Cooperating in setting up the ND program at Anahuac has been Ricardo 
C. Leon '44, a Mexico City business­man and president of the ND club there. He and Langford were the official representatives of the Uni­versity on July 16 at the dedication of a new campus for the U. of the Americas at Puebla, 70 miles east of Mexico City. Approximately 175 universities were represented at the rites which marked the moving of that university from Mexico City to Puebla. 
Speakers at the dedication included two ND honorary degree holders, John A. Hannah LLD '70, former president of Michigan State U. and now administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, and Thomas C. Mann LLD '64, former 
U.S. ambassador to Mexico. 
Mr. and Mrs. Langford, who have been in Mexico since June, and the 19 students in the program also were guests at the ladies night program held by the Mexico City ND Club at the end of July. 






CLUBS 
ATLANTA A breakfast honoring 15 "Alumni Award" finalists and sponsors was held at the Marriott Motor Hotel on May 30. Atlanta School Committee directors LOU LONCARIC '58, JIM EICHELBERGER '63, and ED ABRAMS '50 selected Warren Calvert of Sequoyah High School as the recipient of the 1970 Atlanta Alumni Award. Assisting in the program were AUanta club members REV. PATRICK J. McCORMICK '64, JIM MORRISON '52, PETER DANCE '65, STEVE CARLEY '64, BILL RICH '64, BOB DEMEESTER '61, and RALPH WITT '62. Each finalist spoke briefly on "The Student Today," and Bill Rich and Ed Abrams gave outstanding presentations on "The Role of Alumni Today." The program was exceptional and the alumni who participated were unanimous in their praise of this project. 
Social Committee Chairman PETER MURRAY '64 handled the details for the annual Family Picnic held at Mathis Daiiy on August 15. Regular participants with Uieir families are GERALD KIEFER '54, WILLIAM ROCHE '53, BILL LEONARD 
•48, TOM BYRNE '49, and DICK SHERIDAN '52. 
WRNG Ring Radio announced plans to cany the Notre Dame football games on radio in Atlanm this fall, thanks to PETE MURRAY'S successful effort on this project Plans have begun for the annual TV Party in October with DICK MURPHY '44 of Sears, and TOM GUNNING '57 organizing the details. 
Welcome to new club members J. L. KEHOE '67, DENNIS MAKIN '66, BOB MULSHINE '63, CHARLES MARCINEK '48, GEORGE NOVAK '64 and REV. JOHN FOLEY CSC '64. 
The club is in the process of updating its roster. Alumni in the area are urged to complete an information card for an area Alumni Directory to be made available to the club members. The ND Club of Atlanta's official address is: P.O. Box 408, Atlanta, Ga. 30301. 
Louis T. Loncaric '58 
BUFFALO On July 31 the Buffalo Club held its annual ND night at the races at the Buffalo Raceway. Two events were scheduled for August: the annual freshman sendoff, Aug. 24, and our annual ND golf outing, Aug. 26. The Buffalo Club hopes that ND will continue to be a forum for many well-presented points of view in the coming academic year, but especially that it give some deserved respect and dignity to the Catholic intellectual tradition it has fostered so successfully in the past. 
Marvin J. LaHood '58 
CINCINNATI The Club held its annual golf ouu'ng and also ND Night on July 22, at the Hyde Park Golf and Countiy Club. JIM STAHL '61 was low man for the day, posting a fine score of 73. The 1970 Man of the Year Award was presented to FREDERICK "FRITZ" SHADLEY '49. This was an award well deserved by Fritz. Last year's recipient, BOB FROLICHER '54, presented the award. 
BILL HICKEY, Ara's assistant director of player personnel delivered a fine summary of the new talent which Ara has recruited. Bill also showed the film "The Big Game" which reviewed the 1970 Cotton Bowl game with the Texas Longhoms. 
Plans are being made for the annual "Meet the Freshmen and their Fathers" picnic in early September. 
Tom Eagen '66 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY The club had its annual picnic on July 19. The day was beautiful and the location was perfect We are most grateful to JOHN ROBINSON '28 who was kind enough to make the facilities of the Robinson Day Camp available to his fellow Alumni. MIKE CARROLL '55, organized the picm'c, and with his wife Pat, did all the hard work required to make it successful. We had 124 people at the picnic. 
Some of the members who brought their own ball teams (5 or more kids) included BILL YARIO '55, FRANK FAGAN '56, PHIL COYNE "50, BILL JOLLY '57, DON WASIK '57 and Mike CarroU. 
New club president FLOYD RICHARDS '42, led his Softball team against that of ex-president FRANK LANE '54, and they split a doubleheader. BOB McGOLDRICK 
•56 and BILL McCAFFREY '60, devised a new football game—played entirely in the water. Bill had a little trouble though, he kept putting his beer down during each play. 
For the first U'me in memoiy JOHN McGUIRE '62, while making a spectacular Frisbee catch which brought him crashing within inches of one of the cooking fires and almost broke his arm, did in fact spill a few precious drops of beer from the can which he was holding. Must be old age. 
All in all, a good time was had by everyone. 
Paul Sanner '62 
DETROIT Thanks to the efforts of WALT BERNARD and his committee, the Detroit Alumni enjoyed a very successful golf outing at the Detroit Golf Club on July 20 with the members teeing off on both the North and South couises. Play was limited to 125 alumni and guests with a total of 160 attending the dinner that evening at which Aia Parseghian told of the prospects for the forthcoming football season. Helping Walt were RAY BONANNO, ERNIE GARGARO, JR., JOHN DESMOND and SEAN SCHAEFFNER. 
ROGER BONNAHOON, a recent graduate of the University, won the trophy with a gross score of 68. Other winners included DON HIBBARD and HECTOR ALLISON for long drives on each course and DAVE WAGNER and C. E. MONAHAN closest to the pin on each course. In addition, approximately $1,000 in door prizes went to a large number of the guests in attendance. 
On this occasion, the club also took the opportunity to present its first scholarship award to Robert A. Rapicki, a 1970 graduate of Catholic Central High School in Detroit who will be attending the University this fall. 
The board of directors (with wives) will have an August board meetiiig aboard MARC VERBIEST's 105' ship, the Helene. 
Coining events include a kick-off par^ in early September which is being chaired by JIM COLOSIMO and a party the evening of Oct 3 to "celebrate Notre Dame's first victory at East Lansing since the early 1950's." 
Arthur W. Shannon '59 
KANSAS CITY The new oflScers of the ND Club of Kansas City held their first luncheon meeting on June 10, to discuss the general direction in which our efforts and activities should be 
aimed during the coining year. Present at the meeting were JOHN DAW, '52, president, JACK H. WHITAKER, '61, and BERNARD 
D. CRAIG, JR., '61, vice-presidents, ART DONNELLY, '68, secretaiy, BILL UNGASHICK, '43, past president, TOM McGEE, '54, and JOHN MASSMAN, '56. 
Activities planned for the upcoming months are the annual frKhman send-off dinner, a new club roster, a periodic newsletter, a communion breakfast, and in cooperation with the auxiliary, the summer cocktail party. 
Congratulations are in order for BOB METZLER, '44, local Chairman for SUMMA, and to all who contributed in helping to make the drive such a success. 
We send our highest hopes and best wishes for a successful year to Ara, the Irish, and the University. 
An Donnelly '68 
KENTUCKY The Club would like to express deepest sympathy to the families of JAMES CASPER '40 and ARTHUR HIPWELL (whose son is now attending ND). Both of these men passed away during the month of July. 
As of this writing the events of August have not taken place, but I have been assured by GERRY BOLAND that our booth at the Orphans' Picnic should be a success, and Dr. LEO REHRMAN says he has quite a few foursomes lined up for our annual outing. Both of these events should be well attended. The highlights will be reported next month. 
My apologies go to JOHN L. HOECK, '48. Because of faulty information and reporting, I had written his name as "Bill Heck." I'm very sorry about this, John, and will see that it doesn't happen again. We would like to thank John for his fine efforts as an ND recruiter. 
Once again, if anyone has any information or news item he would like to see in the ALUMNUS, please contact me. 
Mike Casper '64 
MILWAUKEE Forty members of all ages turned out for the annual golf outing on July 22, beautiful weather, guests Coach GEORGE KELLY, Prof. JIM MORELAND (Law School) and JACK BRODERICK (Gflbert's Clothing), and plenty of golf and door prizes made for a most enjoyable day. The 1970-71 officers and directors were elected at the outing, and are: President PHIL VOGEL '58, Vice-President DAVE ROEMER '59, Secretary JERRY CHERUBINI '68, Treasurer (perennial) DICK EHR '54, and Directors MARK PFALLER '43 (honorary president), FRANK EATON '30, JOE MESEC '54, 
CE.VB DIRECTORY 
ALABAMA John A. O'Brien Jr. '51, 2133 Vestridge Dr., Binmngham, Ala. 35216 
ALASKA John S. Hellenthal '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska 99501 

ARIZONA Pftoemx—Chuck Pilon, 5711 N. 12th Place, Phoenix, Ariz. 85014 Tucjon—Raymond T. Terlizzi '56, 717 W. Chula Vista, Tucson, Ariz. 85704 
ARKANSAS Fort Smith—James A. Gilker '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 72901 
Little Rock—A. J. Wrape Jr. '47, Industrial Lumber Co., 2200 E. 7th St, Little Rock, Ark. 72202 
CALIFORNIA Bakersfield—^oben J. Anspach '58, 6512 Desmond Ct., Bakersfield, Calif. 93308 Cen/ra/—Harold A. Hair '29 (secretary), 

2430 Tulare SL, Fresno, Calif. 93721 Los Angeles—Benjanun B. Salvaty '62, 2945 Monterey Rd., San Marino, Calif. 91108 
San Francisco Bay Area—blames F. O'Don­oghue Jr. '58, ADT Fox Plaza 1116, San Francisco, Calif. 94102 
Orange County—^Thomas J. Getzinger '53, 2323 Alnura, FuUerton, Calif. 92631 
Sacramento—John V. Stroud '65, Court­house, Temescal and Sierra, Fair Oaks, Calif. 95628 

San Oiego—Timothy K. Hinchey Jr. '61, 604 Melrose, Chula Vista, Calif. 92010 San Jose—Mauiice J. DeWald '62, 4878 Clarendon Dr., San Jose, CaUf. 95129 
COLORADO 

Colorado Springs—^Michael D. Ciletti '62, 923 Hoome Ave., Colorado Springs, Colo. 809O4 
Denver—Vincent J. Duncan '44, 1800 Secur­ity Life BIdg., Denver, Colo. 80202 
CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley—Floyd F. Richards '42, 312 Brimfield Rd., Wethersfield, Conn. 06109 
Fairfield County—^Lawrence M. Murchan '66, 24 Baysbore Rd., Milford, Conn. 06460 
Naugatuck Valley—Thomas K. Hubbard '56, Box 84 South St., Litchfield, Conn. 06759 New Haven—Dr. Robert T. Warner '53, 850 Choate Ave., Hamden, Conn. 06514 
DELAWARE James E. Vachris '55, 14 Wellington Rd., Welshire, Wilmington, Del. 19803 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Peter J. Cannon '56, 1700 Red Oak Circle, Reston, Va. 20070 
FLORIDA Centra/-Norman E. Duke '33, 1340 Oxford Rd., MaiUand, Fla. 32751 
Fort Lauderdale—M. Francis Carey '46, 1107 N.E. 13th Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33304 

Greater Miami—James H. Sweeny III '57, First National Bank Bldg., Suite 1414, Miami, Fla. 33131 
North Florida—Michael J. ZMobetA fZ, IOWA 1855 River Rd., JacksonviUe, Fla. 32207 Burlinglon—John F. O'Neill '52, 711 Mom-Palm Beach County—John T. Hoiriey '62, ingside Dr., Butlington, Iowa 52601 3116 Australian Ct, West Palm Beadi, Des Moines—James T. Munro '57, 2995 Ha. 33407 37tli, Des Moines, Iowa 50310 Pensocob—William L. Soule Jr. '61, P.O. Dubugue-^Louis P. Pfefler '64, 555 Fischer Box 1550, Pensacola, Fla. 32502 Bldg. Dubuque, Iowa 52001 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—Eageste C. BBttner Quad Cities—V/mam L. McCabe '53, 2621 '50, 5047 62nd St NorO. St PetetsbuiB, Ehn St, Davenport, Iowa 52803 Fla. 33709 
KANSi^ GEOMHA Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin '49, 2203 
.^f/anfo—Louis T. Loncaric '58, E. F. Hut-College, Topeka, Kan. 66611 ton & Co., 2 Piyor St, S.W., Atlanta, Ga. 5<i/ina—John E. Carim '28, Cariin Ranch, 30301 Mentor, Kan. 67465 
Wichita—tfestoT R. Weigand Jr. '60, 110 N. HAWAfl Main, Wichita, Kan. 67202 Walter K. Cabral '55, 965 N. KaUheo Ave, Kailua, Hawau %734 KENTUCKY 
Gerald J. Boland '63, 531 Garden Dr., Louisvflle, Ky. 40206 
IDAHO Idaho—Fraads H. Hicks '49, 1180 Pbdps LOUISIANA Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho 83647 New Orleans—F. Joseph DroUa Jr. '63, P.O. Idaho Falls—James M. Brady '29, Box 2148, Box 51112, New Orleans, La. 70150 Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 Northern Loiosiona—Dr. Edward R. Morgan '44, 803 Jordan St, Shrevepoit, La. 71101 
ILLINOIS 
MAINE 

Aurora—Edward J. Duffy '62, Guy Vincent 
Jess F. DeLois '42, R.F.D. 2, Brunswick, 
Prisco Architect, 302 S. Lake St, Aurora, 
Maine 04011 

IlL 60506 Central Illinois—Mbext O. Eck Jr. '58, 810 
MARYLAND 
Myers BIdg., Springfield, in. 62701 

Bo/limore—Donn B. Duffy *5S, 4304 Nor­
Chicago—^Patrick J. Montroy '53, 815 Fair 
wood Rd., Baltimore, Md. 21218 

Oaks, Oak Park, 111. 60302 Decfl/ur—Patrick C. Nolan '63, 13 East Dr., 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Elms, Decatur, 111. 62526 

Berkshire County—Dr. Bernard G. Auge '47, 
Eastern Illinois—Maatice F. Stauder '41, 26 
17 Kittredge Rd., Pittsfield, Mass. 01201 
Lake Shore Dr., Danville, DL 61832 

Ao5/on—Arthur P. Murphy '60, 381 Wash­
Fox Valley—George R. Sdunidt '29, 620 
ington St, Braintree, Mass. 02184 
Summit St., Elgin, III. 60120 

Pioneer Volley—William A. Hurley '28, 55 
Jo/ief-Richard E. McHu^ '43, RJL 2, 
Maidewood Ter., Springfield, Mass. 01106 

Manhattan, III. 60442 Lake County—Stephen W. Bolander 'S9, 741 
MICHIGAN 
Hawthorne Dr., Libertyville, HI. 60048 

Battle Creefc—Raymond R. Allen '40, 1009 
McHenry County—Jose^ L. Orso '50, 428 
Security National Bank BIdg., Battle 
Lake St, Crystal Lake, IlL 60014 

Creek, Mich. 49017 
Peoria—Jeny H. Higgins '56, 2209 Riviera 
Berrien County—^Dr. Paul Leonard '43, 413 
Dr., Peoria, 111. 61614 

S. St Joe, Nfles, Mich. 49120 
Quad O/iej—William L. McCabe '53, 2621 
Blue Water District—WiBiam L. Wflson '42, 
Ehn St, Davenport, Iowa 52803 

4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
XocAi/ort;-Timothy J. Condon '63, Shultz, 
48060 
Fahy and Street, Talcott BIdg., Rockford, 

Dearborn—William H. DeCrick, 1976 Prest-
Ui. 61101 

wick Rd., Detroit Mich. 48236 
Rock River Valley—James E. Dixon '64, 
De»roi7—Robert W. Bogg '57, 29820 Spring 
846 N. Graham, Dixon, 111. 61021 

HiU Dr., Southfield, Mich. 48076 

Southern Cook County—ttohert N. Caffiudli 
Flint—John J. Kean '51, 830 S. Leroy St, 
'55, 20851 Sparta Lane, CHympia Fields, 

Fenton, Mich. 48430 
lU. 60461 

Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Ziim '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, Mich. INDIANA 49938 
Calumet District—James C. Brocke '65,1909 Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—John Beech St, Apt 306, Valparaiso, Ind. TuUy '61, 900 CMd Kent BIdg., Grand 46383 Rapids. Mich. 49503 
Eastern Indiarm—Jacob R. Marboefer '60, Jackson—James A. LeFere '61, 3002 W. Marhoefer Packing Co., Inc., 1500 N. Elm Morrell, Jackson, Mich. 49203 St, Muncie, Ind. 47305 Kalamazoo—^Patd F. Coash '56, 1366 Bunker 
Elkhart—James E. Hayes '49, 1715 E. Jack­Hill, Kalamazoo, Mich. 49001 son Blvd., Elkhart Ind- 46514 Lansing—Fianik. J. Sierawski '48, 8623 Fort Wayne—Philip M. Qemens '53, 1835 Camellia Dr., Route 2, Lansing, Mich. Pemberton, Fort Wayne, Ind. 4680S 48917 Indianapolis—J. Thomas O'Brien '53, 207 W. Monroe—Mark S. Laboe '64, 311 Colonial 77th St, Indianapolis, Ind. 46260 Dr., Monroe, Mich. 48161 
Michigan City—Mban L. Smith '53,1009 W. Afiukejon—Stanley R. TVler Jr. '58, 2211 Coolspring Ave., Midiigan City, Ind. Reneer St, Muskegon, Mich. 49441 46360 Saginaw Valley—James H. HoweU '60, 3401 
St. Joseph Valley—V/mtan B. KiDilea '60, Washington, Midland, Mich. 48642 15396 Briarton Dr., Mishawaka, Ind. Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney '17, 46544 Bradner Lodge, Cheboygan, Mich. 49721 
Terre Haute—James P. Beyer '49, 2340 McKeen, Terre Haute, Ind. 47802 MINNESOTA Tri-State—Joseph A. Ream '38, Colonial Twin Cities—John C. Patz '56, 1956 Stan­Manor Apts., Newbutsji, Ind. 47630 ford, St Paul, Minn. 55105 
Misassipn 

Thomas M. Hzen '63, 1375 Kimwood Dr., Jackson, Miss. 39211 
Missoun 

Kansas City—John Lawrence Daw '52, 912 Baltimore Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 64015 
St. Louis—Kobett E. McGlynn '51, McGlynn & McGlynn, 120 N. Main St, East St Louis, lU. 62201 
MONTANA Afontona—Robert T. O'Leary '54, 2920 Floral Blvd., Butte, Mont S9701 Billings—Thomas L. Doran Jr. '47, 1810 Westwood Dr., Billings, Mont 59102 
NESRASKA L/nco;n—George Easley '61, 3144 S. 35th St, Lincoln, Neb. 68506 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—Robert O. 
Brown '55, 2535 Country Club Ave., Omaha, Neb. 68104 
NEVADA Northern Nevada—Michael Montelatici '61, 910 Pyramid Way, Spanks, Nev. 89431 
NEW JERSEY Central—]. Norris Harding '57, 10 Dewey Dr., New Brunswick, NJ. 08901 
New Jersey Shore—Rabeit A. Giunco '57 
293 Cedar Ave., Manasquan, NJ. 08736 New Jersey—V/mam H. Crosby '61, 18 Old Quarry Rd., Cedar Grove, NJ. 07009 South Jersey—James B. Caison '56, 624 CUnton Ave., Haddonfield, NJ. 08033 
NEW MEXICO David C. Bickel '54, 1005 Espanola, N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87110 
NEW YORK Buffalo—'Henry L. Bums Jr. '62, 160 Deer­hurst Blvd., Kenmore, N.Y. 14217 Cenfra/—Joseph V. Barry '59, 210 Craddock St., Syracuse, N.Y. 13207 
Golden Circle—James F. McVay '42, 49 
Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 16701 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Connor F. Haugh '57, 55 Marion Ave., Pougbkeepsie, N.Y. 12603 
Mohawk Valley—Raymond M. Belden '49, 
1609 Mahawk St, Utica, N.Y. 13501. New York City—James F. Slattery '50, 192 Brixton Rd., Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
Northeastern New York—^Walter J. Rudge 
'60, 1 Hidden Valley Lane, Jonesville, N.Y. 12098 Rochesler—Jobn W. Glavin '58, 23V4 Browns Ave., Scottsville, N.Y. 14548 
Southern Tier—Frank. F. O'Brien '34, 201 
Federation BIdg., Elmira, N.Y. 14900 
Triple Cj/ier—Stephen F. Dragos '61, Valley Development Foundation, Inc., 212 Sec­urity Mutual BIdg., Binghamton, N.Y. 13901 
NORTH CAROLINA Donald J. Kelsey '48, 106 N. Franklin St., ReidsviUe, N.C. 27320 
NORTH DAKOTA William Daner '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 58501 
OHIO .Citron—Wmiam G. Foust '63, 263 Storer Ave., Akron, Ohio 44302 Canton—Sam J. Dominick '62, 631 Church St, North Canton, Ohio 44720 Cincinnati—R. Michael Brady '60, 3240 Gtengyle, Cincinnati, <%io 45208 
Cleveland-^tnck J. Cannon '55, 24356 Noreen Dr., North (Nmsted, Ohio 44070 Columbus—John A. Dodd Jr. '56, 236 E. Town St, Columbus, Olao 432IS Doyron—James C. Biitt 'S3,4345 Trails End Dr., Dayton, Ohio 45429 Hamilton—Jetome A. Ryan '41, 353 S. "D" St, Hamflton, Ohio 45013 Mansfield—Robeit H. Entrup '49. 187 Marion Ave., Mansfidd, Ohio 44903 Northwestern—Wsiter R. Bernard '30, 433 Johnson Ave., Celina, Ohio 45822 Sandusky—Kchaid C. Hohler '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, CHno 44879 Ti^n—Fred J. Wagner '29, 152 Sycamoie St, TifBn, Ohio 44883 ToWo—William E. Thees '57, 2830 Algon­quin, Toledo, Ohio 43606 
Youngstown—'Robert N. Dnieen '55, 1106 Union National Bank BIdg., Youngitown, Ohio 44503 
OKLAHOMA Oklahoma City—Eugene J. Schmit '55, 4804 
N.W. 74th St, CHdahoma City, Okla. 73132 
Tutai—Fartis P. Saffa '40, P.O. Box 3165, Tulsa, Okla. 74101 
OREGON Raymond J. Martin '50, 11450 S.W. Berk­shire St, Portland, Ore. 97225 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Kat­ter '41, U.S. Bank BIdg., Johnstown, Pa. 15901 
£«e—Leo J. Brugger Jr. '61, 622 Connecti­cut Dr., Erie, 16505 Harrisburg—Joseph Ellam '58, 4106 Hills­dale Rd., Harrisburg, Pa. 17112 Lehigh Valley—James R. Rowlands '57, 720 
S. Glenwood St, Allentown, Pa. 18103 
Monongahela Valley—no president 
Philadelphia—George V. Mitchell Jr. '58, Kidder, Peabody Co., Inc., 123 S. Broad St, Phfladelphia, Pa. 19109 
Pittsburgh—Frank F. Conte '56, 410 Valley Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15215 5cranfo»—William M. Comerford '49, 1626 Monsey, Scranton, Pa. 18509 
Wilkes-Barre—Michael J. Gorham '60, 19 
Susquehanna Ave., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 18702 Williamsporl—Joseph F. Oiso Jr. '55, Box 27, Williamsport Pa. 17701 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS James V. Conlon '65, 145 Don Ave., Rum­
ford, R.L 02196 
SOUTH CAROLINA Julian D. Michel '43, 26 Broad St, Charles­ton, S.C. 29401 
TENNESSEE 

Chattanooga—Robert J. Shockey '61, 509 
Cherry St, Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402 
Memphis—Joseph S. Signaigo '48, 1687 Bryn Mawr Circle, Germantown, Temt 38038 
Arajftvi7/e--Richard T. Martin Jr. '54, 1000 Williamsburg Circle, Brentwood, Tenn. 37027 
TEXAS Dallas—John E. Ronan '56, 3032 Talisman Dr., DaUas, Texas 75229 El Paso—Cos P. Momsen Jr. '49, 3727 Montana, El Paso, Texas 79930 ffoiu/on—Joseph P. Echelle '62, 8506 Concho, Houston, Texas 77036 San Antonio—James F. Carroll '55, 3215 Woodcrest, San Antonio, Texas 78209 
UTAH Dr. Jobn D. S(ttaA'30^ «45 E^dfl Dr, Ofden, Utah t4403 
vmONIA Frank J. Walmqwr. 8321 Wlwder Sd , Richmond, Va. 23227 
WAanNGiwi Spoktme—Jtla G. Hedcett '63. S. 2724 Howard, Spokane, WaA. 99203 Western—Jhmaia P. Mqr '55, 4237 tSA Ave, S£ . Metcer bbnd. Waali. 9«M0 
West VirtiHkt-Cyiik M. Reich '39. 903 S. Drew St. St Albaiii, W. Va. 25177 Centnil—](dm D. Iidian '40, Box 2063. Claiksbmi. W. Va. 26301 Ohio Valler^'mSMm J. Biidi.'59. 42 Ijii­wood Ave., Whedinc W. Va. 26003 
maconaoi 

Fox Kiver VaUey—Mm K. Gsdraind '56^ 319 E. Frances. Apideloii, Wis. 54911 Green Bay—WmMm S. Woodward 'S4,3261 ffitlers Ct, Green Bay. Wis. 54301 La Crosie-^Dnid F. Hyde '40, 230 S. 20di St, La Crosse, Wis. 54601 Merfill—AuffBtos H. Stame '27, 102 S. Prospect St, Merrill, Wis. 54452 Mawaukee-^imp F- Vofld '58, 1556 E. Goodrich Lane, Milwaukee, Wis. 53217 
ATortftwest Ifiscoiuin—Ben M. Sirianai St. '60, 2719 Kdth St, Ean Claire, Wis. 54701 
SouOi Central—Thotma M. Hinkes '51, 5414 Doisett Dr., Maffison. Wis. 53711 
WYOMING Patrick H. Meenan '49, Midwest BIdg, Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 82601 
F(»Ei0i CLUBS Arazj^Thomas E. CanoD Jr. '58, 14210 
Alameda Ave., Miami.Lakes, Fla. 33012 Canada-Hoo proident Chile—Rty. Fiands A. ProTenzano CSC 
'42, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santi­ago, Clde, S.A. Colombia—J. Ramon de la Torre '57, CaUe 78, No. 8-02, Bogota, Odombia, S.A. £iriuifof—Temistodes Teran '49, Apartado 179, Quito, Ecuador, S.A. fRjimij—Donald C. Loeck '50, 3, Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3, England MiRib—Lawrence J. GoOiaoo '54, Box 1152, Manila, Philippines 
Mexico Cily-4aAaid C. Leon '44, Mmte Kamenun 223, Mexico 10, DJ'. Mexico Nicaragua—Ina R. Alvarez '58, 5a CaOe 
N.E. No. 608. Managua, Nicaragua, Central America 
Northern European—Fnnk T. McGnire '35. Managing Director, John Deere, SA , Post&ch 949, 69 Hdddberg, Germany 
Pakistan—Kev. Frank J. Burton CSC *33, Box 5, Notre Dame Ccdiege, Daccar2-, East Pakistan 
Panama—Lorenzo Romagosa '45, Box 8307. Panama, Panama i'enf—Enrique Lnlli '45, Cuzco 440, Lima. Peru, S.A. Puerto Kco—GSbeilo M. Marxnadi '61, Box 9848, Santmce, Puerto Rico 00908 
Rome—Vincent G. McAIoon '34, (secre­tary), Falazm Brancacdo, Largo Bran­cacdo, 82, Rome, Italy 
San Salvador—Holmio Duarte F. '47, 71 Av. Norte 22^ San Salvador, El Salvador, Central America 
ToJbv—Rev- Peter T. MoiiwaU SJ. '65, Sophia Univeisity 7, Kiodw, Cfaiyodal^ Tcdcyo, Jvan 
Fenedwlii—Mervyn J. Gorman Jr. 39, Apartado 1651, Caracas, Veneznda, S.A. 
TOM MULCAHY '57, JOHN SCHLOEGEL '54, DAVE MURPHY '57, JIM WALDORF '61 and JIM LONGE '65. The next function will be the fall smoker to be held on Oct 5. 
Dave Roemer '59 
GREATER MIAMI 
The Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami 

held its annual Universal Notre Dame night 
on May 24, at Lenny's Hideaway, Miami 

Springs, Fla. Approximately 40 guests were 
entertained and informed by guest of honor, 
JIM COONEY. A lively question and 

answer period took place after Jim's speech, 
and he fielded all questions with great 
agiUty. TOM SULLIVAN from the 
Foundation office was also present and 
gave a brief but informative speech. 

FRANK McGINN, member of the board of 
directors for the southern area, was also 

present and issued a greeting to the alumni 
and guests present 
Eveiyone was happy to hear that John Thornton, Jr., son of JOHN "SPARKY" THORNTON '50, was accepted as a freshman at the University, and will commence bis studies in September. 
Charles P. Sacher '61 
MUSKEGON 
Threatening skies and the roughs of 
Pontaluna Coimtry Club failed to dampen 
the spirits of over 150 Notre Dame golfers 
and "partisans" (even the Michigan and 
Michigan State alumni are with us on this 
day) as they gathered yesterday for 
Muskegon Club's annual outing. 

It was Stan again, our beer dispensing club president STAN TYLER, to whom major credit must be given for whipping into shape in the space of little more than two weeks another successful and financially rewarding stag. The proceeds are banked religiously by our faithful treasurer, BILL TARDANI, at "his" bank (Hackley Umon where he is a vice-president auditor) so that not a day of interest is lost and each year we can award a scholarship to some deserving young man of the community to enroll at Alma Mater. 
GEORGE KELLY (in the aftermath of half consumed glasses and stacks of com cobs—charcoaled steaks and com the menu—and the hilarious fellowship that followed the awarding of prizes—I recall his saying that there was no final e in Kelly) and TOM (the sincerely sincere comedian) PAGNA were terrific and tremendous and really did themselves proud in the manner in which they represented the University and gave us some real meat to chew on and it wasn't all football. They were great and made the alumni thrill to have them on "our team." 
According to the news story by Mart Tardani, a cousin of Bill and sports editor of the Muskegon Chronicle "veteran CHUCK STEENO took low gross honors with a fine 70. Second was LOU GORBACH with a 76. SMITTY VANDERPLOW had the short drive on No. 1 and BOB WING the longest drive on No. 10. Closest to the hole at 14 was DON GHEZZI. Blind bogey winners were 77, 86, 99 and 95." 
Tardani's son, Mike (a terrific hockey player and skater) is coming to ND as a freshman and Mart now more than ever, is a part of the Notre Dame family. 
Leo L. Linck '43 

NEW YORK 
All graduates in our Club area recently 
received a dues notice. We hofie all of you 
will act quickly and favoiaUy in lemittiiig 
this small expies^on of confidence in our 
university aixl club. Membeishq) entitles 
you to a free copy of our all-new 1971 
New York Alumni Directory (cost to 
non-members—^$10), free admfesion to Utt 
kick-oS meeting, and reduced prices and 
preferential treatment for other club 
events, some of which are discussed' below. 
In addition, your dues payment, plus 
profits on some of our events, provides the 
money to support our scholaishqi fund. The 
winner of this year's scholaiship was Gaiy 
Winkler of Bemer Higb School. 
Massapequa, Long Island. New arrivals in 
the club area of the City of New Yoric, 
Nassau, Suifolk, Westchester, Putnam, and 
Rockland counties should call the club office 
at 420 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017, 212-6S5-42S4, so that we may put you on our mailing list and membership 
roster. 
We look forward to seeing you at the kick-off meeting. Sept 16, at the Sky Top Room of the Statler Hilton (across the street from Penn Station) at 7:30 pjn. In ­addition to our usual cast of local sports figures, other luminaries will include EDWARD W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE, director of athletics, and JOHNNY DEE, head basketball coach. West Point and the Naval Academy will also be represented. TOM CONROY '63 and GORDON FORESTER '47, assisted by BILL FALLON '37, are co-chairmen of this event and are planning some extra surprises. No advance reservations necessary—^free to dues paid members. 
You will soon be hearing from BUD MULVEY '51, on our plans for the Navy Game trip, Oct 31, to Philadelphia. We will once again provide, with preference as to ticket location to dues-paid members, round trip bus service from various points in the metropolitan area direct to the stadium gates. Makes your plans now. This is an exciting event which many of us have greatly enjoyed in the past and is the only eastem visit of the team this year. 
Plan ahead for the communion dinner, Tuesday, Dec. 8, at the Advertising Qub, Park Ave. at 35th St The Advertising Club is within easy walking distance of both Penn and Grand Central Stations, as well as several subway lines. JIM GRIFFIN *47, is chairing this important spiritual and social event JOE HUIZENGA *46, manager of the Advertising Club, has promhed us a supetb dinner after Mass. 
Another successful summer has been reported by Notre Dame founded Council for the International Lay Apostolate (CILA) in its Harlem project Partially supported by the club, ND graduates and students have lived and woriced in Hariem neighborhoods teaching, providing recreation and dmg education for the past,five years. 
Rev. JAMES VAUGHEY '59 is the new Club chaplain. He is on the staff of Cardinal Hayes High School, Bronx. 
Paul T. Smith '60 
OMAHA AND CX>UNCIL NXW S The ND Alumni Club of Omaha and Coimcil Bluffs meets the second Wednesday of every month, at Johnny's Restaurant in South Omaha. At the July 8 meeting, two seniors who were recently graduated fnxn ND, BILL MISKELL and TOM SCHATZ, were introduced to the Club offidally. At that dinner Maj. Jack Lee presented some of the golf trophies to the winning participants in the annual Spring Golf Tournament held at the Strategic Air Command Headquarters. Some of the winners were TOM SCHWIETZ, BILL STONE and JOHN HUGHES. 
The Oub plans a "freshman send-off" at the Officers Club at S.A.C. The alumni, their wives and the freshmen with their parents and dates will be invited to a day of golf, swimming and picnicking. 
In the distant future the Club is contemplating inviting the ND Glee Club to present a concert in Omaha. Some of the more worthwhile projects will be a local city directory for names of Notre Dame . alumni. 
We would like to extend a welcome to any traveling Notre Dame alumnus to attend our monthly meetings. 
Denis "Skip" O'Keefe '69 
ROCKFORD New officers for the Rockford club are: TIM CONDON '63, president; JACK JOYCE '64, VP and treasurer; and ROY PEARSE '57, secretary. The annual Golf Outing was held Aug. 6 at the Freeport Country Club. About 85 golfers attended. Two busloads of ND rooters will travel from Rockford to the Northwestern game in Evanston, Sept 19. 
Roy Pearse '57 
ST. LOUIS With sorrow, I report the tragic death of PHILIP J. LUCIER '42. He is survived by his wife and eleven children. While a member of the St Louis community for only a short nine years, he accomplished more in that period than most of us will in a lifetime. A successful businessman, he served on various boards for ND, St Louis U. and recently was named Chairman of Fontbonne College's first lay board of trustees. He was active in St Roch's Parish and devoted considerable effort to the preservation of his neighborhood as a wholesome area for parents of all races to raise their families. 
A man of friendly, mild maimer, he dared to dream big dreams—seemingly impossible dreams—and he had the skill and determination to make those dreams come true. He will be missed by the entire ND family. 
Paul J. Gund '63 
SAUNA The Salina ND Club met at TOM KENNEDY'S '51, on July 11, 1970, to welcome three area freshman students— Terry Gorrell and A. J. Schwartz, Jr., Salina and Cruz Jasso, Hutchinson, Kan. Outgoing president NORB SKELLEY '25, furnished steaks for all. JOHN CARLIN "28, was named president for '70-71. Present were TOM KENNEDY '51, BILL MAGUIRE '66, SUSAN MAGUIRE M.A., 
'68, A. J. SCHWARTZ, SR., "37, Rev. DAVE MAX, '58, Hutchinson, Kan., JOE COLE '38, Junction City, Norb Skelley, PETE FRANCKEN "48, TOM CARROLL, Hutchinson, C. J. SCHWARTZ 
•64, JOHN BROWN '50, Clay Center, BILL McNALLY '59, Ft lUley, MICHAEL KEEFE '67, Ft Rfley, TOM MORAN '64, Ft RHey, Kan., and the JIM CRAWFORDs, parents of Ed Crawford "71. 
Norb F. SkeUey '25 SAN DIEGO This year's Universal ND Night was held at the Atlantis Restaurant on April 7. Among the 56 people attending were 8 local high school seniors who had applied for admission to ND. Several have since been accepted. Principal highlights of the evening 
were: 
Welcoming remarks and a brief resume of the 1969-1970 Year by President DON YECKEL '55. 
Introduction of new officers and directors and tentative goals for the new year by President-EIect TIM HINCHEY '61. 
Panel discussion of "Notre Dame Today" by guests from campus: DENNIS J. CLARK, Fr. EDGAR J. WHELAN, CSC, and Prof. DONALD KOMMERS. 
Presentation of "Notre Dame Man of the Year" Award to MARVIN.W. RICKLING '52. RicUing, a self-employed real estate broker, was honored for outstanding service to his community, to his church, to his country and to his universi^ and its San Diego Alumni Club. Marv is the father of five lovely children. 
Timothy K. Hinchey, Jr. '61 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY The San Francisco Bay Area ND Club schedule for the fiscal year was brought to a close at its annual meeting of members and wives June 12 at Moreau High School. More than 75 members and their wives gathered to pay tribute to the outgoing officers and to welcome in the new officers. A very special vote of thanks went to reUring President BILL SHERMAN '49, on an outstanding and dedicated.performance during the past two years. Joining Bill in the ranks of the unemployed were Vice President FRANK GIAMBRONI '52, and Board Members BEN OAKES '31, and BRIAN CONWAY '64. 
The new slate of officers and directors is headed by JAMES O'DONOGHUE '58, who will preside as president for the next two years. Assisting him will be J. PETER CLARK '64, GERALD C. SMITH '61, secretary, aiiid JOE CLINE '56, treasurer. Rounding out the board of directors will be TOM KERNAN '55, JIM DONOHUE '48, JOHN SHEETS '64, MICHAEL HARNET '62, and CHARLES VANONCINI '58. 
The club extends a special vote of graUtude to BRIAN CONWAY, who is departing the Bay Area for an 18-month tour of duty in Indonesia for Bank of America. llieFe is good news, however. Brian will be accompanied by his lovely bride. Maty Woods. Our congratulations and best wishes to Brian and Mary. 
As this report reaches you, the club will be entering its new fiscal year and if you have not already received a calendar of fall events, you should be receiving one shortly. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
SPOKANE 
The club mourns the death of one of its younger members. Army 1st Lt BRUCE W. HESKETT '68, who was killed in combat in Vietiam, July 1. The rosary was prayed the night before the funeral at the outdoor shrine of the Blessed Virgin on the grounds of Gonzaga Prep of which Lt Bruce was a graduate. The funeral Mass was concelebrated by members of the faculty of Prep. A memorial Mass was offered at Notre Dame at the request of the club. 
Our vice president, DAVID G. BATTLE '62, is moving to the San Francisco Bay, area. Dave and his lovely wife, Dora, win be missed in future club activities. The search is now on for a new vice president, and also for a new president as JOHN HESKETTs term in the latter office expires this year. 
Joe Walsh '14 
TOLEDO 
Officers for the year were announced as foUows: BILL THEES '57, president; PAT DOOLEY '64, vice-president; BOB O'NEILL '53, secretary; and JIM PFIEFFER '53, treasurer. 
On June 27 the annual family picnic was held. PAUL KRAUS and PAT DOOLEY, along with their wives, capably handled this event Sunny skies, a renewing of old acquaintances and meeting of new made this a fine activity. 
On August 21 a golf outing was scheduled for all the pros and all the duffers followed by a dinner dance for all the non-golfers and all the wives. 
The Club's marathon bridge group completed another year with a party at Barbara and JIM ROSE's house. Good time had by all. They all can't wait to get started dealing the cards again. 
Bob O'Neal '53 
TULSA 
On June 28, the Tulsa Club's new president JACK CHARON hosted a champagne brunch to kick off the festivities urMler the newly elected officers. The Oaks Country Club was the site and FARRIS SAFFA furnished the champagne, for which we owe him a debt of gratitude. In attendance were alumni, wives, parents, students, and friends. The turnout was excellent a very enjoyable time was had by all and future prospects seem very bright for the club. The next event will be our annual pep rally in September. Details on this event will follow. 
George K. Miller '58 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
The summer season started off with a bang at the traditional family picm'c held June 14 at Reston, Va. The day began with a fcdk mass. Club chaplain. Rev. JOHN FORD, CSC 'S3, was the celebrant Our muse was directed by past president JIM GAMMON '56. During the remainder of the day the football season was officially opened in a two-hour game with the unlimited substitution rule in effect Other sports enjoyed were baseball, volleyball and, of course, the slower game of horseshoes. 
BILL SCHAFER and PAT KANE directed the whole affair. 
During the festivities in Reston another group of Club alumni joined together at class reunions on campus. The following have fine memories of the weekend. BOB COONEY '30, JOHN MORAN "30,. FRANK VEE '35, BILL WALSH '30, GEORGE HAGGERTY '40, LARRY HANRAHAN '60, JOHN MANLEY '31, CLIFF LETCHER '40, GEORGE O'MALLY '30, BILL McMURTRIE '60, JOE FITZMAURICE '35, Rev. JIM SHERER '55, Rev. JOE O'DONNELL '55, NORB REINER '55, BILL WADDING­TON '45, JERRY SHIPMAN '55, JOE O'REILLY '40 and Dr. JOE SWIFT '55. 
In July the duffers gathered together for the yearly golf outing and buffet A total of 60 players and watchers turned out for the albir. The new mnaer of He Club trophy was XfSBTH JASINSKI '53. FRANK BEYTAGH, last year's winner, had the kogest drive with XHIN O'CONNELL coming closest to the pin. Odier partic^Mnts woe PETE CANNON, BILL JACKMAN and FRANK MCCARTHY. CHARLIE WASAFF and PAT KANE made anaugeinents. 
A spott outmf is to be held for diildren at Dislikt of Coiimibia Children's Center in Laurel, Md, dming September. Other future events win be the continuation of the nHmthly hmcheans and football weekend trips. 
The Club is seeking to contact new alumni in the Washington metropiditan area. Anyone interested in joining, contact HARRY DUTKO at 6307 64th Avenue, East Riverdale, Md. 20840. 
Hany A. Dutko '56 
Cli/lJ> SCHOOLS VKJUOGV 
WENCESLAUS KILAMA. HLD., 70. has been appointed a reader in parasitology. Department of Tiofkal Public Health, Medical School, U. College of Dar es Salaam, Tanzani*. Keith Hartberg, PfaJ)., 1968. is returning from his WHO position in Dar es Salaam and has been appointed to the rank ot assistant professor at Georgia Southern U.:, Slatesboro, Ga. Raymond Wood, PILD., 'S3, received a grant from the American Institute of Biological Sciences to spend the sunmier at the Najdes Zoological Laboratory in Italy. He also received the creativity in teaching award Crom the National AssiL of Continuing Education for his Institute in Marine Science held each spring at the Duke Marine Laboratory, Beaufort N.C. It is of interest that this is the first time this award was awarded to a faculty member in a commimity coDege (Orange Cotmty Community Colk^). 
GEORGE OtSEARA. FhJ>., '69, is employed as research entomolo^st. Entomological Reseatidi Center, Flotida Slate Board of Health, Vera Beach, Fla. ROBERT GWADZ, PhJ)., -70, has assumed the post of post-doctoral research associate in the Department cS Tropical Health, School of Public Health, Harvard U. JOSEPH BASTLAN. HLD., '69. has become a post-doctoral research associate in the Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue U. JAMES SIDIE, PhJ)., 70, has has also taken a post-doctoral post at Indiana U. 
DICKSON DESPOMMIER. PhJ>., '67, is leaving a post-doctoral position at Aie Rockefeller U. to become a faculty member in the Department of Microbiology, Medical School. U. of Toledo. FRITZ SCHWALM, post-doctoral research Associate in the department 1968-1970, will become assistant professor of biology. Department of Biological Sciences, lUiiKns State U. at NbrmaL Marvin B. Seiger, former post-doctoral, has been, promoted to associate professor of biology at Wright State U. at Dayton. O. 
Ralph E. Thotsoo Department of Biology Notie. Dame. Ind. 46S56 
BUSINESS NICK WALZ and his wife Sara continue to be one of our niost reliable sources of infonnatioiL The Walzes recently returned to South Bend for Sara's five-year reunion at St, Mary's. Nick visited with some members of the MBA faculty and found the program intact and prospering. 
The 1969 class of MBA's continues to be a very productive group. RON DANZIG and wife Margaret have announced the birth of a son, David Eric. CUFF FLEMING and his wife Joyce have also added a son. Presumably, this will reduce the pressure on the Flemings' dau^ter, Lisa, to achieve a high degree of athletic prowess. 
GUS HOLDERER is now a systems analyst, designing management inifonnation systems for Eastman Kodak. The Holderers have purchased a home in Rochester and their new address is 68 Ridgemont Drive, Rochester, New York 14626. 
The CAVATO family has undergone some big changes recently. I have recently taken a job with the Human Development Corp. of SL Louis, the community action program poverty agency in St Louis. The position will be one of coordinating and directing the financial reporting function of the neighborhood centers which cany out Human Development Corp. programs. In addition to the new job, we have a new address. 
That's about all the news this time around. Unless you want to be bored with more details about your class secretaiy's activities, I recommend that you keep me posted regarding your activities. Note the new address and let us hear from you. 
Joe Cavato 7122 Vernon University City, Mo. 63130 

ENGINEERING We are justifiably proud of Prof. ETTORE PERE m who has been named assistant dean of engineering beginning in September. We are glad also that he will be able to offer about one course each semester in the department along with his new duties. I will be passing the writing of this column into his capable hands while I take a sabbatical leave as a Fulbright Research Scholar at the Belgian Nuclear Center at Mol. 
To strengthen our eftorts in departmental development, the Armco Steel Corp. Foundation has awarded the department a $20,000 grant-in-aid to be received over the next four years. This award is part of Armco's commitment to SUMMA. 
Doctorates were awarded in June to JOSEPH PERRY who is now in the Philco-Ford Corp. Microelectronics Division and to HIROSHI AKITA who is remaining for a year of postdoctoral research. Master's degrees were awarded to ALBERT D'SILVA, SUDHIR GUPTA, HSIN-NAN CHOU, DENNIS STEWART, 
W. H. KAO, RONALD JONES, MUKUND PHADKE and SAMUEL MCDONALD, in addition McDonald has been admitted recently to candidacy in the doctoral program. He holds an Argonne Fellowship and has moved to Argonne National Laboratory where he is studying the internal friction of radiation damaged stainless steels for his dissertation. 
Prof. GEORGE KUCZYNSKI was an invited speaker at the IntemaUonal Ferrites Conference in Japan in July. He visited a number of alumni in the Far East including HYUNG SUP CHOI MS '56, »*o is preadent of the (South) Korean Insti­tute of Technology, MASAO DOYAMA MS '55 who is now in the Department of Metallurgy, University of Tokyo, and HIROYUKI ICHINOSE, PILD. '60, idio has recently joined the leseaich staff at 
the Nippon Kokan Co., Ltd. 
Prof. B. D. CULLITY is cdebrating the completion of the writing of his latest book to be published by Addison-Weslqr. It is an introduction to magnetism and magnetic materials. 
Congratulations are in order for WILLIAM D. MANLY MS '49, who has been named a vice president of the Cabot Corp. He continues to serve as general manager of the Stellite Divisioii, Koktmio, Indiana, which was purchased by Cabot for Union Carbide Corporation in January. Joining Union Carbide in September will be GENTARO MATSUMURA MS '58, who is now completing a two-year postdoctoral appointment in Notre Dame's Radiation Laboratoiy. He will be located at Paima, Ohio. 
C. W. AUen. Department of Metallurgical Engineering 
and Materials Science, Box E Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 
ENGLISH Seven students completed work in time to receive their Ph.D. degrees at August commencement Congratulations are hereby extended to our new doctors: Sister ASSUMPTION BOCAN, M.A. '65, ROBERT DUCHARME, VlJk. '67, DA"VID HIBLER, GLENN MAN, M-A. '67. JOSEPH R. MILLICHAP, UJL. '62, THOMAS MUSIAL and PHILIP O'MARA, 
M.A. '61. David Hibler is an assistant professor at the U. of Nebraska, Lincoln. His article "Dnmi-Taps and Battle Pieces: Melville and Whitman on the Civil War" appeared in the Winter, 1969, issue of The PersonalUt. Joseph Millichap, lAo teaches at the University of Montana, is spending the summer in New York City writing a novel. 
Thomas Musial, of the N.D. Collegiate Seminar faculty, is coauthor of a study guide, "Reading, Discussing and Writing about the Great Books." He also served on the University committee which drafted the new Black Studies program. A teacher at Tougaloo College in Mississippi, Philip O'Mara is presently writing the libretto for an opera to be performed there next year. In September Sister Assumption Bocan will be on the faculty at Marymod College, Scranton, Pa. Robert Dudiaime will be ­assistant professor at ML SL Mary's College in Emmitsburg, Md. And Glenn Man will teach at St Francis Xavier U., Antigonish, Nova Scotia. 
"The Teacher as Evangelist for the Arts" was the theme for this siunmer's ND English Assn. Conference July 24 and 25. The keynote address was given by B. G. Henneke, professor of humanities and president emeritus of the U. of Tulsa. Other talks were given by Prof. Thomas S. Fern, Chairman of ND's art department, and HAROLD ISBELL, M.A. '62, director of the writing program at St Maiy's College. A concluding colloquium, including the three speakers along with Professors Donald Costello and Donald Sniegowski, examined the decline of the arts in America and the teacher's role in their renewal. 
DONALD HAYNES, PhX>. '68, of Seattle U., has had an article accepted by PMLA; it is a study of Robert Frost's "A Boy's Will" based on a chapter in his doctoral dissertation. Since ths column was prepared before the end of the sunnier session, it is impossible to list our new 
M.A. aliunni here. They will be presented. 
along with any other personal and professiraial news items received, in the next issue. If nothing about anyone you know 
(itKluding yourself) has appeared recently, remedy the situation with a letter or card. 
Robert M. Slabey 
FnglUb Department Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
MATHEMATICS MICHAEL A. WALTERS M.S. '65 (B.S. Fordham College, 1963), married the former Mary Aime DeWilde, a graduate of 
Marquette University (B.S. 1965, M.S. 1968), on Sept 6, 1969, at ND in the Lady Chapel. She is the daughter of JOHN BENEDICT DeWILDE, Commerce '34. After receiving his degree from ND, Mike joined the 
Insurance Rating Board. In 1967, he was made assistant manager of the Research Department and also became an associate in the Casualty Actuarial Socie^. In 1969, he was made an officer of the Insurance 
Rating Board with the title of assistant 
secretary. In February he was appointed 
Insurance Data Processing Center 
Coordinator for the IRB. 
George Kolettis Department of Mathematics 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

PHYSICS The editor says it's that time again; so here goes. In an attempt to introduce a little much needed variety into this column, I'll start this one with a little news about the Physics Department We have added two new members to the department faculty and lost two for the 1970-71 academic year. The additions are Dr. Brij M. Khorana and Dr. Charles A. Rey. Dr. Khorana has joined our expanding Solid State Physics group, and will be doing research in the field of Superfluids (Liquid Helium II). Dr. Rey has joined our Experimental Ele­mentary Particle Physics group. Our losses are Dr. Jerome A. Helland, who has left ND, and Rev. James L. Shilts, CS.C. '61 (physical electronics) who was recently appointed assistant vice president for stiKlent affairs. At the present time it appears that we will have about 16 new first year graduate students coming in September, about six under last year's group. The undergraduate Major and Concentration Program enrollment appears to be holding fairly steady at around ninety (sophomores, juniors, and seniors). Now back to the primary function of this column, namely, supplying you with names, addresses, and activities of a few more of your fellow Physics Ph.D. Alumni. 
GLOVER S. COLLADAY '53 (theoreUcal physics), wife and four children, live at 606A Essex Circle, China Lake, Calif., according to information gleaned from American Men of Science, 10th edition. After receiving his Ph.D. from ND in 1953, Glover joined the staff of the U.S. Naval Ordnance Test Station at China Lake as a Research Physicist He was promoted to associate head. Weapons Platming Group, in 1955. Since Glover has not "checked in," I am unable to supply further vital statistics. 
ROBERT T. DECK '61 (theoreUcal idiysics), lists his home address as 3929 Eden St, Philadelphia, Pa. 19114. But don't let that fool you! In fact better read on. After earning his Ph.D. at ND, Bob held a research associateship at the Bartol Research Foundation, Swarthmore, Pa., from I96I to 1963. From 1963 to 1965 he held a similar position at the U. of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich. Since 196S he has been a member of the faculty of the Department of Physics at the U. of Toledo, Toledo, O., where he holds the rank of assistant professor. In 1969 Bob was named one of four "Outstanding Teachers" at Toledo. At last report, he was still single. 
JAMES C. PENLEY '61 (physical electrom'cs), wife Maijoiie, and two children, Karen and Michael, can be contacted by writing to them care of Department of Physics, Middlebuiy College, Middlebuiy, 
ON RECORD 
ENGAGEMENT Miss Carol Kanz to PATRICK SHEERIN '57. Miss Kathleen A. Galvas to BERNARD L. NEMETH '63. Miss Marilyn Anne Hurst to GEORGE 
W. QUITER i n '64. 
Miss Deborah A. Ziegler to THOMAS M. NOETHEN '68. 
MARRIAGES Miss Karen Frances Tumock to ROBERT DAVID SHEEHAN JR. '55, May 29. Miss PhyUis Ann Bierman to PETER RYAN HYLAND '62, March 21. Miss Ann Everett to JAMES McGRATH i n '64, in April. Miss Mary Margaret Shoup to ARTHUR A. De SMET '68, June 27. Miss Victoria M. Capom'gri to JOHN PHILIP STEPHAN '68, May 30. Miss Judith Ann Quinn to THOMAS W. O'CONNOR '69, Feb. 14. Miss Kathleen Maiy Price to LAWRENCE J. BRISSON '70, May 23. 
Miss Helen Jean Browne to FREDERICK J. McDONOUGH 70, May 16. 
Miss Dianne Lynne Good to JOHN JOSEPH McINERNEY 70, June 6. Miss Marcia Gail Kropp to DANIEL JOSEPH SARACINO 70, June 27. Miss Rowena McGiU to THOMAS B. SPRINGER 70, July 11. 
ADOPTION Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT O'NEILL '53, daughter, Lisa Maureen, March 27. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. FOOTE '53, a son, Thomas James, May 16. Mr. and Mis. JOHN F. MANION '56, a son, Mark John, July 22. Mr. and Mis. THOMAS CREHAN '57, a son, Michael Patrick, July 20. Mr. and Mis. MICHAEL HERB '58, a daughter, July 29. Mr. and Mrs. GARY HORDEMANN, 
M.S. '62 (BARBARA M. MAY MA. '66), a daughter, Lisa, Jan. 22. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. McDONALD '65, a son, Jason Lynn, June 23. Mr. and Mis. DONALD Z. ZONE '65, a daughter, Lisa Catharine, July. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. KEARNS '67, a son, Kevin Francis, July 5. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD CALONE '68, a daughter. Heather Marie, April 23. Mr. and Mrs. LEN NIESSEN '68, a daugiiter. Colleen Maty, April 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT PLEBANEK '68, a son, Kenneth Anthony. 
Vt (Sony I don't have a more precise address for you.) From 1961 to 1962 Jim was a Research Scientist with General Telephone and Electronics Labs, Inc., in Palo Alto, Calif. He then moved to the Colorado School of Mines, Golden, Cblo., where he served as assistant professor of physics from 1962 to 1964. From 1964 to 1966, Jim held a research assodateship in the Department of Physics of the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb. From 1966 to 1968 he was a graduate student in the 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT PTAK '68, a daughter, Michelle Karen, May 27. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN V. PUIG '68, a son, Jeffrey Gerard, July 13. Mr. and Mrs. IVAN BODENSTEINER ''68L, a daughter, Jill, in June. Mr. and Mrs. PETER KING '68L, a son, Sean Peter, July 1. 
SYMPATHY OSCAR J. DORWIN '17 on the death of his wife, Olive, July. JOHN J. KANE '25 on the death of his wife, Margaret Q. Kane, June 23. JOHN BRACKEN '34 on the death of his mother. Mis. Edward A. Bracken, May 16. 
EDWARD A. BRACKEN JR. 35 on the death of his mother. Mis. Edward A. Bracken, May 16. 
ERNEST J. BAADER '43 on the death of his wife, June 23. 
WILLIAM BRACKEN '45 on the death of his mother. Mis. Edward A. Bracken, May 16. ' 
WILLIAM R. WRAPE '45 on the death of his father, A. J. Wrape, June. AL J. WRAPE '47 on the death of his father, A. J. Wrape, June. PETER ECKEL '51 on the death of his father, July 29. 
HENRY J. MASSMAN III '53, JOHN T. '56 and ROBERT J. '58 on the death of their father, HENRY J. MASSMAN JR. 78, July 10. 
DAVID MEAGHER '54 on the death of his father, Patrick J. Meagher, July. ROBERT J. WING '55 and RICHARD 
M. '57 on the death of their father, JAMES G. WING '27, June. 
ERNEST P. KLETZLY '57 and LEO J. JR. '58 on the death of their father, LEO J. SR. '31, May 3. 
BRO. DANIEL Q. KANE CSC '58 on the death of his mother, Mrs. John J. Kane, June 23. 
STEPHEN J. WILSEY '63 on the death of his father, John H. Wilsey in June. 
DEATHS 
HENRY I. DOCKWEILER '12. June 15. He is survived by his widow, Clare, 210 W. Seventh St, Los Angeles, Calif. 90014. 
JACOB E. ECKEL '16, July 29. He is survived by his widow, 60 Sullivan St, Cazenovia, N.Y. 13035, a son PETER '51 and two daughteis. 
JOSEPH A. MEYER *17, July 13. He is survived by his widow at 3323 Almo Ave., Cincinnati, O. 45209, a son, Joseph Jr., and three grandchildren. 
Rt Rev. PATRICK MAGUIRE MA 70. 
GERALD C. BRUBAKER 72, June 30. He is survived by his family at 360 Goshen Ave., Elkhart Ind. 
JAMES A. CARMODY 72, Feb. 26. He is survived by his widow at 718 Leonard St, N.E., Grand Rapids, Mich., a son and five dauijiters. 
EDWARD J. GRETCHEN 73, June 16. He is survived by his widow, Elizabedi, Depoitmeat of >1iflotcf>iy at BimJeii U., Waldiam, Man, tMoiag aa hLA. m PfeiIoso|il|y Oere in 1961. In Oe fidl of 19e>, Jini joined Oe teidQr of OB Deputment of PlQfiics at MBddMNny CoOete where ke holds the nnk of Assistant PtofcMoi. 
The editor aaja that's all dus time. ­
Robert L. Anthoqjr DqHutmem <rf Physics Notre Dame. Ind. 4«SS6 
164 Chapel St. raiMnrfaigii. N. Y. lUH; three sons, a dandier, fDor btodKis, two sisters and 20 (landdiildren. 
FRANK W. PEDROmr 73, July 7. He is sunrived by his widow. Eliabcth. 3S5 Park Ave., Mishawaka. Ind. 46S44; duee sons, a daughter, four brodiers and two sisters. 
HAROLD M. EATON 75. Sqit 2. 19C9. He is survived hy his fnnily at 11(34 Chicaao Plaza. Omdn, Neb. 
JOSEPH A. DALEY 7S. Jane 24. He is survived by his widow at 10477 Trooo Ave., Los Anieles. CaKL 90064. 
HENRY J. MASSMAN JR. 78. Ally 10­He is survived hy his itadlj indnding duee ND sons, Henry J. HI '53, J(»IN T. '56 of 610 W. 56di. Kansas City. Mo. 64113 and ROBERT J. '58. 
JAMES M. CARROLL SR. 31. July 9. He is survivedfay his widow at 726 Thurber Dr, W, Apt F, Cohmibas. O. 43215; a son and a grandson. 
LEO J. KLETZLY SR. 31, May 3. He is survived by hisfiunUy at 937 Mariaod Dr., Cohimbos, O.. inchi^Dg sons ERNEST P. '57 and LEO J. JR. '58. 
FRANK C. WACHSMITH 31. Jn|y 3. He is survived hy his widow. Louise^ 129 E. 82nd St. New Yoric, N.Y. 10028; a dangler and a son. 
CHARLES O. KRONCKE JR. 32 Dec 18, 1968. He is survived tqr his widow at 1502 Forest St, Haslinn Minn- 55033. 
JOHN J. HAYES 34, June 18. He is survived by his family at 1507 Forge Rd.. San Mateo, Calif. 94402. 
JUSTIN C. McCANN 37, Dec 5, 1969. He is survived by his funily at 124 Inwood Ave., Box 45C^ Point Lookout, N.Y. 11569. 
Dr. JAMES M. CORCORAN 38, Jnly 
19. He is survived by bis widow at 4800 Sedfcwick St. N.W., Washrngtcm, D.C., a daughter, Kathleen, and four sons. James E., Jos ^ M.. James P.. and Thomas M. 
Dr. THOMAS P. NEILL MA 39. ^ril 
25. He is survived by bis widow at 6146 Kingsbury Ave.. St Louis. Mo. 
CHARLES J. COLCAN 39. Jnne 24. He is survived by his widow and two sons at 29 Langdra Ave., Anisley-rai-Hodsoii, N.Y., his mother and a sister. 
JOHN D. HUNTER '48, Maidt He is survived by bis widow at 1506 Kinpdown Circle, Dunwoody, Ga. 30338. 
F. LESLIE LOGAN JR. '51, June 17. He B survived by bis widow, Maiy Joknne, 2202 Lawndale Dr., Fort Wayoe^ Ind.; three sons, two dai^ters, bis modier and two brotbeis. 
waUA M D. LEONARD '55. Mqr. He is sunrived hf bis widow at 104 Wjnme­wood Dr., Absecoo. NJ. 08201. 
JOHN McNAMARA '55. Ame 24. He is sorrived Iqr a aoo C J., a dan^Mer KdK and his widow at 67 Batik Credt Place, St Paul, Mhm. 
LOUIS SUCHER KAVANAUGH '59. July 3. He is survived by his widow at 5780 K ^ Afthnr Dr., Daytoo, O. 4S42f. 
^^Dear apprentice sehoiar • • • 95 
By Richard W. Conklin, Director of Public Information 
Hiram Humperdink was only a C-plus student at Osage Memorial Hi ^ School in Leftfoot, Mont., but a shrewd guidance counselor (a Boston Latin School dropout who had followed the communes and draft-deferrable jobs west) told him to aim high because of something called "geographical distribution" and its importance to prestige universities. 
Thus it was that Hiram was accepted immediately by Nimbus University, which enjoyed an enviable reputation—according to a Chronicle of Higher Education survey. Nimbus had had more student unrest during the past year than any other regionally accredited, four-year institution of higher learning in the United States. Hiram's father was the only plumber in town and president of the Rotary Club. Often he and his son had talked into the night about the vistas of knowledge which beckoned from far-off quadrangles. Hiram's father was pleased, and so was Hiram. 
Before matriculation, Hiram received 22 letters from Nimbus U. 
The first—bom the Admissions Office—congratulated Hiram as "a member of a select group of apprentice scholars" and enclosed a campus map. In a postscript, Hiram learned that tuition had been raised $256 and room and board an average of $35.67. 
Hiram's next letter came £rom the campus chapter of the Weatherman faction of SDS. It advised him to enroll in a certain dormitory and to bring a "heavy chain (Sears catalog No. A2106), the mechanism of an alarm clock, and a nickel bag." Hiram did not know what a "nickel bag" was so he wrote the readers' service column of his local paper, which happened to be the Chicago Tribune. So it was that the third missive opened by Hiram not only told him what a nickel bag was but offered him a job as a narcotics undercover agent at Nimbus and promised him rewards for confiscated pot tied to the wholesale rate for nickel bags in nearby Toledo. 
The fourth letter to Hiram came from Student Government at Nimbus. 
"We are," said the someidiat care­lessly typed message duplicated on a 34-cabinet-member letteibead, "sorry to welcome you to our repres­sive campus. Do not sign up fcH-ROTC or football and please choose your courses from the enclosed 1970-71 Guide to War- and Peace-Professors. By the way, dcn't sweat opening day. We are closing the university until after the elections. The candidate you will work for is (at this point a blank had been filled in by hand typing): Ralph Ri^ton, Mt, 4th Dist., non-incumbent" 
One day Hiram found four letters crowding his RFD mailbox, one each from Nimbus chapters of the Black Panthers, La Raza, the Com­mittee to Save Alcatraz, and the South Milwaukee Ethnics. (It turned out that the computer at Nimbus failed to distinguish among members of various minorities and had sent the same printout to all campus groups.) Althougb Hiram's mother was one-sixth Cherokee, he declined membership in any group. 
The letters continued to pour in. They came from the Nimbus chaplain, its laundry ("We are h^py to inform you that you are No. 5438. Please print it on your underwear"), the Student Union, two drive-ins, the director of student residence, a dry-cleaning firm, the Athletic Ticket Office, and the Noosphere Shore Railroad. In none of them, much to his dismay, did Hiram find any hint of the things he and his father had talked about so much those nights on the p(Hch. Hethou^t about this a lot, whenever he wasn't opening mail. 
In the end, Hiram Humperdink failed to show up at Nimbus University when schoid opeaed after the November elections. He dis^;»­pointed several persons, including the laundry intake oflBcer and the Weatherman recruiter, but Hiram was happy. He became Leftfoot's second plumber, was elected the youngest treasurer of the Kiwanis Chib, and read books which he and his fafbsT talked about on the porch kmg into the night 
AM.VMNI ASK 
WHOIE NEW BAU GAME 
The forthcoming football season will once again offer many alumni the "excuse" to return. This time it should be particularly poignant for all of us to reflect not only on Joe Theismann's ability but more importantly on the astounding philosophic and humani­tarian growth of our University. Dynamic and sympathetic leadership coupled with the many meaningful events of the past year, has made Notre Dame an extremely relevant and contemporary institution. 
So while we cheer Ara and the Irish let us also heap praise on the Hesburghs, Burtchaells and today's students for helping our Alma Mater win the national championship of Christianity. 
H. James Krauser '62 8301 Garfield Street Bethesda, Md. 
NOTHAFHCS The religious sisters of the country owe you no thanks for the classic inanity on the back cover of the May-June 1970 ALUMNUS. We find it more difficult than ever before to construct and maintain an "image" of a truly concerned, mature religious woman living and caring in the 70's about the real problems—^war, race, poverty, etc. If the ALUMNUS cares to "use" sisters again to pray, or even to work for something really worthwhile, we will be behind you by the thousands; but, please, don't insult us like that again. 
Sister Rita Panciera, MBA '65 Mercyhurst College Erie, Pa. 16501 
QUESTIONS FOR ND STUDENTS 
"They Want love!" So spoke Mr. Guy DeSapio, Notre Dame student, at a luncheon of the ND Alumni Board and Senate last May. "If the country is to become unified again, then that basis must be in understand­ing, respect and love," he continued. Also, "The same could be said for Notre Dame." Also, "Behind all the hustle and bustle there is an underiying motive for it all—that the only true human value is love—^that there is a God, whose Son's life of love is not only extolled as a model, but is accepted and practiced as a way of life." 

So, as an alumnus who studied under Father Cornelius Haggerty 
-. and under Professor Charles Mercier, (a nephew of Cardinal Mercier)— who insisted upon not only knowledge and understanding but also compre­hension of word meaning, I am asking: What do you mean by love? What is its single most important factor? 
Who exemplified it? How? Why? 
Herman G. Centlivre '25 2708 Eastbrook Dr. Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805 
DISGUSTED 
As a single member of the alumni society I would like to register my distinct displeasure with ND being listed as opposed to the Cambodian and S. Vietnam actions of the U.S. without a poll being taken of the alumni. If the majority favor jumping down the President's throat all right, but until the alumni have so expressed themselves I know of no one who can state how the ND family feels on this subject when the family is described as students, faculty and alumni. 
Any dedicated strong feeling student could quit school and spend the balance of the semester working in ghettos and rural areas helping people if he was sincerely interested in improving the world. By closing universities, the minority assures itself of protection from disciplinary action. I picture a small group of dedicated militants on campus as not the idealistic wonders of the next governing generation but a group of kids that have been spoiled rotten by parents who can't give their o1 
enough. 
A. Duffy'51 
Third National Bldg. 
Dayton, Ohio 
ESSaiCE OF A UNIVEISITV 
My initial reactions to the comments of ND's elder alumni concerning the issues surrounding the Moratorium Mass vacillated between irritation and amusement. As the storm of protest on the pages of "Alumni Ask" continued, my thoughts turned to deep concern. Perhaps the most disconcerting of the many positions taken by our elder alumni is the belief that the University is failing because it is not like their days, the good old days. As a recent graduate who returned after only seven months and spent three full days luder the Golden Dome, I can assertively say that the good old days are gone. They died on graduation day and will only be a shadow to relive and reminisce at alumni gatherings and reunions. 
There are two strong reasons why this situation does and must continue to exist. The first involves the very essence of a great university—a forum of interaction between students, faculty and administrators. In the day to day business of the university, it is trinity that is the university. The alumni are the past, depended upon for financial support but not for guidance. The reason for this last assertion is another inherent facet in the make-up of a university. The modem university is an "engine of change." It is an objective forum within which bright young people unburdened by the harsh burdens of society and family life can develop frameworks of analysis through which the optimum solutions to the problems of society can be developed. 
To allow alumni, the products of the past, to interfere in the idea generating process of the university is to emasculate its potential. The ideas of the alumni of the 30's, 40's and 
SO's were vital in their time but failed 
in the 60's and must not be impressed 
(mthe70's. The Notre Dameis of 
the 70's must be free to do Uieir own 
analysis and reach their own con­
clusions. They must be fiee to make 
their own deci»ons on campus and 
be made to stand in judgment of their 
peers for those decisimis. It is far 
better that their mistakes be made 
before they assume their leadership 
roles than afterward. 
My advice to fellow alumni is simple. Remember and cherish the ND you knew but do not interfere with the progress of ND in today's and the future's controversial problems. The blinders which wiO be impressed by your dominance ("guidance") wiU make our Univenity a place wbtae you shoold not want to send your son and a {dace where I will not send my son. 
W. Michael Karaes '68 Harvard Business School Boston. Mass. 02163 
omnfusnc 
Everything I saw last reunion week­end gives me cause for optimism about the University and its student body. Young men lOce Marie Winings, are going to do great tilings for the school, iK^AilIy even for this sick worid. They wiU, of course, receive their share of wounds from the thorns of life, but it's comforting to know that there are people around who care about them and what they're doing. 
There are those alumni who are disturbed about the course of the administration. My reaction: Tou^! These are the same people who bou^t the medieval package of rig^t and wrong while they were in school, and then settled into suburbia, thinking that their salvaticm had been assured by their visits to the grotto. 
Gerry Wilkes '60 500 S. Mascm Rd. St Louis, Mo. 63141 
Mr.' Franciis P. Clark Head, Microfilming & Photo Lab. Memorial Library Notre. Dame, Ind. 46556 
"WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO ..." 
Now you can find that classmate who disap­lisher, Rockwell F. Clancy Company of Chicago, to peared after graduation day. The National Notre produce a limited number of additional copies for Dame Alumni Directory is off the press. The Di­Alumni who may not have had a chance to order rectory contains more than 30,000 biographical a copy previously. Thousands of Alumni have re­listings (by state) of Alumni, including name, class ceived their copies already and are enthusiastic. year, college and major, business and home ad­The Directory will be issued only to members dresses and phone numbers. It is 425 pages in of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Its use for length and is bound in gold and blue. commercial or other solicitation is expressly pro­
The Alumni Association has asked the pub­hibited. 
Use the coupon below to order your copy. 
DETACH AND MAIL TO: University of Notre Dame National Alumni Directory, 75 E. Wacker Dr., Chicago, 111. 60601 A VERY LIMITED NUMBER OF COPIES AVAILABLE 
D ENCLOSED IS A CHECK FOR S19.95 made payable to University of Notre Dame Alumni Directory. My directory will be sent immediately. 
D KINDLY BILL ME FOR $19.95 and hold my copy in reserve. Upon receipt of the invoice I will send my check and the directory will be sent immediately. 
Name Address 
Firm Name Address 
Send my book to: Address 

City State Zip.. 







