The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

COMMENT 
Consider the phenomenon carefully. 
This is the first serious curtailment of alumni activities in the history of the Association—the omission of a regular issue of the ALUMNUS, dis­guised as the combining of the Feb­ruary and March issues. 
This action is on top of a saving of more than $1,000 effected by the Editor this year in cutting down the original schedule to nine issues in­stead of ten, and lowering the cost per issue by some §55. 
The curtailment of the ALUMNUS is the first of a series of retrench­ments necessary if we are to live within our depressed income. Sal­aries, which never enjoyed the expe­rience of inflation, are threatened with what I am frank to say is an undesirable deflation regardless. Prog­ress on the recording of the non-graduates in index form in the Office is threatened with cessation, which means immediate reversion to the chaos in which they have existed to date. 
If we had asked you for large sums, we could understand this fail­ure. If we had been extravagant, we could expect this cut. If we had reached a high point of achievement, we could expect a temporary dip. If we depended on a few, we could have anticipated this embarrassment. If you were an organization of laborers, we could understand the day-to-day fluctuation of your fortunes. 
But you are almost six thousand college men, building an Association at a per capita cost below the average minimum of other colleges, investing in the mutual welfare of yourselves and Notre Dame. That at least half of you cannot continue this small obligation even in these distressed times is difficult to comprehend. 
Perhaps I speak for the three jobs the Office holds. But more earnestly I speak for the one and only -Alumni Association of the one and only Notre Dame, in your lives. Payment of the outstanding dues, payment of half of them, would relieve this critical situa­tion. 
Economic penalties for the Associa­tion ultimately penalize you. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E. ABMSTEONG. *25, Editor 
The ma;;azine is published monthly durinc the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre . Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is 52.00 a year; the price of sinpcle copies is 25 cents. The annual alinnni dues of §5.00 include n year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1023. at the post ofhce at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Art of March 3. • 1879. AH correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
lilEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 


THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN A. MACXAMARA, '97 
Honorary President FRANCIS H . HAYES, '14 
President CLARENCE MANION, '22 -- Vice-President WALTER DUNCAN, '12 ­
Treasurer JAMES E . ARSISTRONG, '25 -Secretary 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 -- Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 -- Director FRANK E . BERING, '98 -(ex officio) Director 
LIST OP CLASS SECRET.ARIES 

y.a r .Vaiitr Adrfrcss 
Before ISSO To be selected 1SS0-S5 Prof. Robert Jl. Anderson Cireleville. Ohio 
1886 ^lichael 0. Burns •iZ8 S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio 
1SS7 Hon. Warren A. Cartier Ludininon. Michi^ran 
188S John L. Heinetnan Connersville. Indiana 
1883 To be selected 
ISOI-OS Louis P. Chute 7 University Ave., Minneapolis. Minnesota 
1891 Hush A. O'Donnell The New York Times, Now York City 
1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr, S60 Phelan BWR.. San Francisco. Calif. 
1896 William P. Bums 327 Willard Ave., Michisan City, Indiana 
1897 Rev. John MacNamara St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Ml. Clemens, Mich, (temporary) 1898 F. Henr>* Wurzer Buhl Bide, Detroit, Michigan 
1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane -lis Jefferson Bide.. Peoria. Illinois 
1900 John W. Ecceman 1201 First National Bank Bids., Fort Wayne. Ind. 
1991 Joseph J. Sullivan 1300. 139 N. Clark St.. Chicajro. Illinois 
1902 To be selected 
1903 Francis P. Burke 004 Trust Company Bid;;., Milwaukee, Wisconsin I90J Robert Proctor Monger Bldc„ Elkhart. Indiana 
1903 Daniel J, O'C'-'nn'jr 10 S. LaSallc St.. Chicair^. Illinois 
1906 Thomas A. Lally 811-13 Paulsen Bld^r.. Spokane, Washington 
19:>7 T. Paul McG-.nnon Bar Bids.. 3S W, 44th St., New York City 
lors 
Frank X. Cull Buckley Bids.. Cleveland. Ohio 1909 E. P. Clearj-P. O. Box 356. Momence. Illinois 1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 527 Beall Ave.. Wooster. Ohio 1911 Fred L. Steers 1635 First National Bank Bid?.. Chicaco. Illinois 1912 Benjamin J. Kaiser 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburph. Pennsylvania 1913 James R. Devitt 921 Encineers Bids., Cleveland. Ohio 1914 Frank H. Hayes 1055 Granville Ave.. ChicaKO, Illinois 1915 James E. Sanford 8212 Kenwood Ave.. Chicago, Illinois 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 708 First Trust Bide-. Hammond. Indiana 1917 John U. Riley '244 Washington St., Boston. Massachusetts 1918 John A. Lemmer 1110-8th Ave.. S.. E^canaha. Michi^ran 1919 Clarence Bader 650 Pierce St.. Gary, Indiana 1920 Leo B. Ward 1012 Black Bids., Los Anseles, California 1921 Alden J. Cusick 1 Park Ave.. New York City 1922 Gerald Ashe 1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester, New York 1923 P.iul Castner 2702 Miami St.. South Bend. Indiana 1924 James F. Hayes Fifth Avenue "Ass'n, Empire State Bldjr.. N. Y. City 1923 John W. Scallan Pullman Co., 79 E. Adams St., Chicaso. III. 1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 38 N. 12th St., Newark, New Jersey 1927 Edmund DeClercq 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicaco. Illinois 1928 Louis Buckley 718 E. Corby St., S-»uth Bend, Indiana 1929 Joseph McNamara 231 Wisconsin'St., Indianapolis. Indiana 1930 Bernard AV. Conroy 1055 Park Ave., New York City IC3I John E. Boland 3624 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. Pennsylvcnia 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. X. FEBRUARY- MARCH, 1932 Nos. 5-6 
Some Economic Aspects of National Defense 
Extracts from a paper read before the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club by Captain Robert B. Riordan, '24, U. S. A. Reserve Officers Corps, Registrar of the University. 
In the past, even in the historical past, there were times when human beings individually provided them­selves with all the things they con­sumed, consequently they enjoyed but a minute fraction of the goods that go to make up the scale or standard of living of modern man. As times progressed men, grouping themselves into tribes and nations, discovered that one man could produce better shoes than his neighbor and that an­other could weave better cloth or make better weapons. Thus began specialization and division of labor, a system wherein each worker produced a surplus of better goods which he traded for the surplus of other pro­ducers. The net result being that each group, tribe, or nation enjoyed a greater total of all goods and of bet­ter quality. It was necessary, how­ever, that each individual be relieved of those duties in which he was least productive in order that he could de­vote his time to those tasks in which he had gi-eatest skill or talent. The maker of shoes, producing a surplus to trade for his other needs, lost some time from his special task by going out to trade or sell his wares, thus reducing the number of shoes he could produce. Later the merchant, another specialist, relieved the shoemaker of the task of selling, thereby permitting him to make more or better shoes. In this way the merchant aided produc­tion, hence could rightly be called a producer. This is a quite simple and not an exhaustive explanation of the term "producer," nevertheless it should suffice to make our later ref­erences clear. 
Primitive man, and man not so primitive, spent a goodly amount of time and effort in protecting himself, his family, and his goods. This time and effort was lost to the production of consumable goods, food, clothing, and tools. Division of labor and specialization have relieved him of this lost time and effort, making him more productive; but the professional soldier who relieved him must be credited with a share of this increase in production and therefore must also be called a producer. 
Economists are seldom sentimental­ists, hence the following quotations from a standard text should lend the weight of authority to what has been presented so far: 

"From the immemorial the human race has found it impossible to get on without conflict among its members, either individually or by gx-oups. . . . Fundamental to such group conflicts is the perpetual struggle for existence, through which each group is impelled by the motives of self-preservation and self-perpetuation to seek for itself the greatest possible shai-e of the limited products which nature offers to mankind. 
"Now this tendency to conflict nec­essarily leads to organization and authority. . . . Thus the first and most important of the functions of government is defense, by which we mean defense of the group against attack by outside foes. .. . In the modern nation this function demands much of the activity of the general government and specifically calls for the services of army, navy, air de­fense, consular and diplomatic serv­ices, etc. 
"The economic significance of this function of government will be obvi­ous as soon as it is regarded as an exemplification of the division of la­bor. Production cannot proceed suc­cessfully if the nation's territory is frequently overrun by foreign foes, or even if the danger of such invasion is ever immanent. One of the funda­mental causes that enabled England to forge so far ahead of the Conti­nental peoples in economic develop­ment was that her insular position protected her from attack (no longer true) and made it possible to develop her sheep and cattle, her agriculture, and later her trade and industry, at a time when a lack of security was a fatal obstacle on the Continent. De­fense against outside foes must be organized, and to be efficient it must be specialized. . . . The student will not fail to recognize that, wisely em­ployed, the army, navy, the diplomatic service, and the other governmental agencies of defense are just as prop­erly included among the nation's pro­ductive forces as is any other group of the people." (Revised edition, Prin. of Econ., Fairchild, Furness and Buck.) 
I shall cite a number of events in . American history to show how we have fared in terms of dollars and cents as well as in other values in the management, or more properly the mismanagement of our on'n national defense. 
Our Revolutionary War was prose­cuted by a provisional government with little centralized authority. As a result anything like an American i-egular army hardly appeared in that conflict. Each colonial government furnished militia when, where, and for as long or short a time as it willed. Washington and our other leaders found themselves at all times with untrained, poorly equipped, and frequently half-starved men under their command, subject to withdrawal at any time by their several colonial governors and who might find their enlistment expiring on the eve of battle. One can readily understand Washington's statement that, "The evils to be apprehended from a stand­ing army are remote . . . but the consequences of wanting (lacking) one is certain and inevitable ruin." 
First and last we had 400,000 men under arms as compared to the Brit­ish forces which varied from 20,000 to 42,000 regulars. In 1776 we had 89,000 troops, sufficient had they been trained or even under unified com­mand to have overwhelmed by sheer numbers the small British army. In 1781 we could muster but 29,000. The largest force under Washington's own command was 17,000. The very con­tempt of the British for us enabled Washington to profit on occasion by strategy alone, but it is significant to note that there were only two vic­tories of real military importance in seven years of war; the first was the defeat of Burgoyne at Saratoga and the second the surrender of Yorktown where we had the aid of French mili­tary and naval forces. 
The war lasted seven years, fol­lowed by a depression relatively worse than any since experienced and left us with a debt of 80 million dollars. Robert Morris placed ' the war ex­penditures at something over 92 mil­lions. Something like 400 millions in paper money was issued "not worth a Continental." 
132 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Feb.-Mar., 1932 
Perhaps no nation in any time has given pacifism such complete, absolute control over its affairs as we did in the years preceding the war of 1812. Our histories ignore in shame most of the facts, which are documentary, as a result of which we are not as cog­nizant of the disasters of the period as we should be. 
We grovelled in abjection before the powers of Europe and our flag was dragged in the dust of disgrace. (Rupert Hughes, The War We Lost by Pacifism, American Legion Month­ly). .. . In 1810 military appropria­tions had been cut by over a million and naval appropriations reduced by half. We still had a few good ships left over in addition to Jefferson's ludicrous "gunboats." You are fa­miliar with British impressments and incitement of Indian depredations. Napoleon seized without notice ten million dollars worth of American property and imprisoned crews of two to three hundred American ships in his dungeons. Nothing was done about it but, odd as it may seem, we fought the Tripoli war and bluffed weak Spain into handing over west Florida. Then, when we had sunk to the depths of degradation, our paci­fists suddenly turned militarists, as they always do, and the War of 1812 was on. 
We boast of sea victoi"ies in which some of the few good ships we had left defeated inferior foes, but hear nothing of the many ships we lost. Barron hauled down his flag because his sailors could not get the chicken coops off his guns in time to fire more than one shot. What a gem of the ocean was Columbia then! Detroit was surrendered without a shot. Buf­falo and other northern towns were bui-ned. Militia sent against the In­dians threw away their muskets and fled at the sight of forest fires. August 24, 1814, 3,500 British regu­lars scattered 7,000 American militia at Bladensburg, looted and burned the nation's capital. At Lundy's Lane 2,400 American regulars had held the field against 3 000 British regulars and Jackson defeated Packenham at New Orleans after the war had end­
• ed, the two bright spots on a sadly besmirched shield. 
Now the cost! During the twenty years preceding the war the expendi­tures for the maintenance of the army totaled $35,000,000. For the next five years they totaled $83,000,000. 
In 1811 the total expenditures of the federal government were $13,000,­
000. They jumped to $39,000,000 in 1813, and $48,000,000 in 1816, after the war was over. Not until 1823 did they become normal. The difference between normal and actual expendi­tures during this period was $198,­
000,000, all chargeable to the war, 
and this does not include pensions 
subsequently paid. A quarter of this 
sum, applied to provide a regular 
army upon the threat of war, would 
have brought the war to a close in 
one swift campaign which would have 
expelled the British from North 
America and added Canada to the 
American possessions. 

Contrary to our avowed policy of non-e.vpansion and anti-imperialism we took from Mexico as a result of the war of '46 . . . probably the most vast and valuable empire that ever was wrested from a nation by mili­tary conquest. The odds were all in our favor, due in no small part to the fact that by that time we had a few officers graduated from West Point, but our bungling with the militia al­most lost the advantage. Scott, hav­ing advanced half way from Vera Cruz to Mexico City, found his militia at the end of their twelve-month en­listment. They promptly turned around and headed for home. Scott with his few regulars had to sit down in the midst of hostile territory sev­eral months while green militia was recruited and sent to him. 
From 1861 to 1865 civil war rav­aged the land but the old mistakes had preceded Bull Run and continued until Appomatox. I shall summarize briefly: The Union employed some 2,700,000 troops, about three times the number employed by the Confed­erates. The North spent five and a half billion dollars, three times the amount spent by the South. Yet, it required four years to suppress a re­bellion that might have been, pre­vented had there bean a regular army available under military instead of political leaders, or, if not prevented, it could have been shortened with appreciable savings in human life and material wealth. 
So far nothing has been said of our numerous Indian wars. While com­paratively insignificant, the same gross waste attended their prosecu­tion. Just one example, the Seminole war cost us $2,000,000. This conflict could have been avoided entirely if we had had a small regular army with which to make nothing more than a show of strength. 
The Spanish war is sufficiently within our own time to be of common knowledge to most of us, yet is in the past far enough to offer perspective. Little, then, need be said of it other than that we wei-e in the usual de­plorable condition upon its outbreak. We knew nothing of the theater of operations, knew nothing of the whereabouts of the Spanish navy, and had no war plans under which to place a large army in the field. We provided inadequate transports for the troops destined for Cuba, made no provision for their return in the event of defeat which was quite possible under the conditions and at one time was very probable. 
The Cuban campaign was launched at the height of the yellow fever sea­son, a condition which took a greater toll in casualties than the bullets of the hard fighting but poorly led Span­ish troops. Luck was with our navy; the war lasted only a hundred and nine days. The cost, which is still mounting by way of pensions, was as usual disproportionate. The discov­ery of the cause of yellow fever by Major Walter Reed, an army surgeon, has been an economic benefit worth more than the cost of the war but certainly cannot be cited as an excuse for that cost. 
Following the Spanish war, a few rays of light filtered through the fog of legislative halls and our regular ai-my was actually increased and pi-o­^^sion made for a really effective gen­eral staff. Heretofore, after each war the army and na\'y had been reduced and scattered, its units and leaders allowed to stagnate in inaction until the next emergency. Little criticism can be made of our defense establish­ment as it existed then until 1914. There was a ^\nse provision for ex­pansion though the expansion thus provided was inadequate and was not put into effect when it should have been. Colonel House spoke plainly to President Wilson about the necessity for a show of force in 1915 and 1916. Both belligerents violated our rights as laid down in international law. Wilson wrote numerous notes, scraps of paper without force behind them. The results were perfectly natural and normal, no one paid any atten­tion other than to acknowledge po­litely our notes and to continue the violations. Colonel House was not alone by any means in maintaining that a show of force would have pre­vented our entry into the war and in all probability this show made in favor of either the Alliance or the Entente would have ended the war at least a year eai'lier with the conse­quent saving in life and property. 
Let us see by conservative estimate what this show of force would have cost us and what, if anything, it would have saved us. The immediate visible cost of the war was roundlv $23,000,000,000 plus $10,000,000,000 loaned and since donated to our allies, making a total of $33,000,000,000 to say nothing of subsequent costs in pensions, hospitalization, and other expenditures directly or indirectly chargeable to the war. Of the latter we may mention the billions loaned to the allies after the war, eighty per­cent of which it is estimated was used 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
to rebuild European armaments while we dismantled ships and cut anny rolls—billions for European arms, hardly a cent for the defense of our own peoples! And this is the debt Europe refusos to repay. . 
Expenditure of ?5,000,000,000 ($28,­000,000,000 less than $33,000,000,OCO) on our national defense in addition to the current appropriations spread over 1914, '15 and '16 would have put us in position to dictate our terms without participation in combat, end­ing the war probably in 1917 if not earlier. These estimates are made by competent and conservative authori­ties, but assuming that we would still have found it necessary to place an expeditionary force in France, it could have been done in 1917 instead of more than a year after we declared a state of war in existence. Non-participation through a show of force would also have saved us our 50,475 battle deaths and our 182,622 wound­ed and 4,500 prisoners to say nothing of a reasonable proportion of the re­mainder of our total of 350;300 cas­ualties. Participating, but with ti-ained soldiers, we probably would have saved 12,000 killed or mortally wounded in battle and 45,000 other wounded. 
Our experience in the so-called World War taught us a lesson, a costly lesson as all such experiences are, but nevertheless a wox-th while one. General Pershing, as a result of his own military experiences and with all the persistent blunders of our past histoiy clearly in mind, laid down a plan of national defense consistent with our needs and with our tempera­ment. This plan was incorporated in legislation in 1920 and gave promise of eliminating for all time the un­economit and wasteful mismanage­ment of one of the most important productive functions of our federal government. Our dream of sanity and security, enjoyed but short dura­tion. Politics, subsidized pacifism, administration "economics," and pub­lic apathy have suceeded in progres­sively reducing appropriations to slowly but surely min our national insurance policy; shortly we may ex­pect to be back in the old rut. 
How do present costs of national defense compare with other items in the government budget? In the fol­lowing, monetary figures are all in terms of the "1926 Dollar," otherwise the increases would appear greater. 
Population increase, 1913 to 1926— 21 percent. Total government expenditures in­crease same period—164 percent. 
Costs per  capita:  
1913  1926  Increase  
Military  $ 4.01  $ 5.02  $ 1.01  
Other items  41.65  99.23  53.57  

Percent of estimated national in­come spent on armament: 
1928 — Great Britain, 3 percent; France, 4.6 percent; Italy, 4.3 per­cent; United States, 0.8 percent. 
Per capita expenditure in United States for comparative items: 
1929— 
Total defense appropriations §4 .48 Public Schools 18.80 Life insurance premiums 21.80 Tobacco 17.50 
The conclusions, if any may be drawn from this fragmentary treat­ment of the subject, seem to be these: That national defense is a necessary and a productive function of govern­ment and as such its merits business­like and not sentimental considera­tion. That the United States has never been business-like in handling its national defense, as a result of which we have suffered unnecessary losses in lives and in wealth. In short we have paid more for sentimental pacifism in both gold and blood, far more than even militarism, which em­phatically is not advocated, would have cost us. National defense as prorided in the Act of 1920 (if main­tained) is an economic solution and a wise preventive of both pacifism and militarism. 
REFERENCES: 
Publications of the Navy League of the United States, 1749 E Street N. W., Washington, D. C. 
The Economics of National De­fense, compiled by the Public Rela­tions Branch, G-2, War Department, General Staff, Washington, D. C. 
Anniutl Report of the Secretary of War to the President, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 
Statistical Abstract of the United States, 1931 edition. Department of Commerce, Washington, D. C. 
Our Military Policy, Lieut. Col. P. 
S. Bond, Corps of Engineers, U. S. A., The Society of American Military Engineers, W^ashington, D. C. 
The Economics of War, by Bernard JL Baruch, Chairman War Industries Board. May, 1929, issue of The Re­ser%-e Officer. 
The Military Policy of the United States, by Bvt. Maj. Gen. Emory Up­ton, U. S. -Army, Government Print­ing Office, Washington, D. C. 
Principles of Economics, pp. 199 ff, revised edition, Vol. I, Fairchild, Furness, and Buck. Macmillan. 
The War We Lost by Pacifism, by Rupert Hughes, The American Legion Jlonthly, Sept. and Oct., 1931. 

Alumni Religious Survey Issued 
The mmiber of alumni who partici­pated in this survey, almost 20% of the lay membership, indicates not only a lasting spiritual influence in Notre Dame's training, but all the elements of co-operative militancy that the Church is seeking in the pro­gram of Catholic Action. Father O'Hara's Survey should be a vital stimulus to that great movement. It is certainly a stimulus to the al­most miraculous work which Father O'Hara is doing on the campus. 
Asserting that the practice of fre­quent communion was the outstand­ing feature of their religious life at Notre Dame, one hundred and twenty-nine alumni reported in the Religious Siii-vey of the Alumni, that this fac­tor strengthened their characters most while in school. Reverend John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, compiled the in­formation in the new Survey and published the Bulletin last month. 
In the fore-word. Father O'Hara writes that the report presented in the sur\-ey is the fulfillment of a plan conceived ten years ago at the University when the first Religious Survey for students was prepared for public distribution. Not until this year was the plan carried out. 
When asked whether or not they thought the discipline too strict or too lax in their time, a variety of answers were received. Such answers as "Can it be too strict?" and "Too strict at times. It's fair, though" showed the average trend of thought regarding this question. 
In the Survey, the alumni were given an opportunity to express their opinions on all matters at the University as well as to render ad­vice and constructive criticisms of the amnner in which the school is ocnducted. 
The publication is divided into seven chapters: Introductory, The alumnus, the parishioner, the law missionary, the citizen, the husband, and father, and the bachelor. Under each grouping, a list of seven or eight questions relating to the sub­ject are answered. 
Because of the almost immediate success of the Survey among the alumni, there is a possibility that future studies of this kind will be undertaken, the cumulative effect of which will be to present a very satis­factory picture of the life and mind of the educated Catholic layman in America. 



THE NEW ENGINEERING BUILDING 
By Francis W . Kervicic, Architect 
THE JOHN F. CUSHIXG, C.E. '06, HALL OP ENGINEERING 
About two years apo studies for an engineering building at Notre Dame were begun, so that all the depart­ments of the College of Engineering could be situated together. There was a careful investigation of the equip­ment at other schools and of the fu­ture growth and possiblt; e.-cpansion of the departments of the CoUei.';­It was necessary that provision be made not only for the Departments of Civil, Mechanical, and Electrical enginering but for metallurgy and for mining engineering as well. The De­partment of Architecture was not in­cluded in the project, since it already had its own building, adequate for the purpose. Provision for so many departments, \vith varying needs, in­volved the preparation of a number of plans, until the drawings were defi­nite enough to be presented for the consideration of the faculty of the College. Meetings were then held, at which the designs were discussed and changes were made, until the plans were in form for working drawings. 
At this juncture Mr. John F. Cush­ing, a distinguished graduate of the Department of Civil Engineering, of the Class of 1906, contributed $300,­000 toward the erection of the build­ing needed. Completely equipped, this building will represent an expen­diture of nearly a half-million dol­lars. With the means available, it was possible to begin on working drawings, and the building itself was begun on the 26th of May, 1931. 
A general plan for the location of new buildings at the University had been drawn up, which provided for the erection of them on the two sides of the Dore Road, between Lyons Hall and Eddy Street. The location assigned to the engineering building by this general plan was the south side of the proposed mall, between the new law building and Eddy Street. This location determined the general character of the structure, as there had to be harmony of material and of exterior treatment between this building and the others in the plan, even though it involved such diverse elements as shops, laborator­ies, and classrooms. And since the engineering building had to be in harmony with its neighbors, it has many of the characteristics found elsewhere on the campus. No stylis­tic treatment was attempted in this instance, but if muUioned windows, pitched roofs, and an occasional but­tress make for Gothic, it may be called Gothic in style. 
The building has a frontage of 300 feet, upon the new mall, and a depth, north and south, of 150 feet. The front of the .structure has been more richly treated, though it is still a rather austere facade. The entrance is marked by a high-gabled projec­tion, having an arched doorway, with an oriel window above. At the east end is another projecting bay, en­riched with buttresses and an elab­orate niche containing the statue of St. Thomas the Apostle, patron of builders. In the spandrels between the first and the second floor are carved borders alternating with the names of Catholic scientists and engi­neers—de Vinci for mechanics, Mar­coni for wireless, Sanmichele for for­tifications, Agricola for mining engi­neering (whose book upon the sub­ject has been translated by President and Mrs. Hoover), Volta, Ohm, and Galvani for electricity, and some fif­teen others of note. Grotesques rep­resenting various trades and profes­sions connected with engineering are 
also to be found here and there on 
the building. 
The main entrance to the building leads directly to the memorial hall, which is faced with stone and with massive piers and arches. The floor is impressively paved with hand-made tiles of red and brown, and the ceil­ing shows the concrete exposed. The beams of the ceiling are painted in brilliant tones of blue, green, and red, with gold enrichment. Directly op­posite the entrance is a gray marble tablet, treated in gold and colors in the manner of an illuminated manu­script, and bearing the inscription: "With honor and gratitude Notre Dame cherishes the name of John F. Gushing, whose sympathy with the ideals of the University and gener­ous interest in the high purposes of scholarship are enduringly recorded in the gift of this building for the 
M^mm
service of learning and the greater 
THE JIEMORLU, HAI,L 
glory of God." 
". . . Notre Dame Cherishes the Name of John F. Cushitig . . ." At the right of the entrance to the building is the office of the dean of 
rest of the north front, with a labora­terials, a testing laboratory and a the College. The office and the recep­tory, an assay room, a balance room, grinding room. The rooms have con­tion room are panelled in walnut and an office, and a furnace room. crete floors and overhead lighting. 
the floor is tiled. The assembly room, which may be entered either from the In the east wing and the west wing On the second floor are classrooms, memorial hall or from the west cor­of the first floor are the wood shop, 
nearly all of which seat about forcy ridor, has seats for 520 persons. At with an adjoining locker-room, a stu­
stuednts, the private offices for the the front end is a small stage, and dents' recreation room, and a toilet. 
faculty, the instrument room, the provision is made for the illustration In the south part are the machine map room for the students of civil of lectures. The lighting is from shop, the mechanical testing labora­
engineering, and the engineering li­overhead and the treatment of the tory, and the high-tension laboratory. 
brary. On the third floor are the walls is in grey and silver. The part The latter is an impressive room, draughting-rooms, a few classrooms, of the building devoted to metallurgy about forty feet square and forty some offices, the model room, and the consists of a library room, an office, feet in height, to be used by gradu­blue-print room. The rooms on this a laboratory, a classroom, small ate students for experiments requir­
floor are of glazed brick, as are all rooms for thermal treatment, x-ray, ing high voltage. Between the north 
of the corridors, laboratories, and and head - measurement illustration, and the south part of the building in 
shops. The lavatories and the locker-and a dark room. The Department a court, are several laboratories for rooms at each end of the building of Mining Engineering occupies the the study of hydraulics and road ma-
on all floors, are wainscoted in marble and glazed brick and have terra/.o floors. All rooms requiring ventila­tion are ventilated mechanically. 
-A.S all good building is the result 
of collaboration on the part of the 
owner, architect, and builder, the ar­
chitect of the engineering building, 
Francis W. Kervick, of the Depart­
ment of Architecture, at Notre Dame, 
wishes to express his appreciation 
for the sympathetic assistance of the 
president of the University, Father 
Charles L. O'Donnell, and of the dean 
of the College of Engineering, Father 
Thomas A. Steiner, in the conduct 
of the work, and of the cooperation 
of the builders, Ralph Sollitt and 
Sons Construction Company, whose 
organization has been most helpful. 
The architect expresses also his 
thanks to all those in his employ, 
and especially to two of his former 
students, Raymond J. Graham, '17, 
structural engineer, and Donald Kreis, 
'29, whose help has contributed much 
THE ELECTRICAL LABORATORY to the progress and success of the 
A Part of Professor Capuro's Quarters work. (Bulletin of the College). 
OUR ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, IF ANV? 
(An Editorial) 
HISTORY 
Notre Dame's first Alumni Association was formally organized in 1868. Subsequently it enjoyed the ups and downs of the school itself, and was definitely reorganized in 1908, from which time it has enjoyed at least annual meetings. In January, 1923, the ALUMNUS was first issued, with Alfred C. Ryan, '20, as Editor.' In June, 1924, Mr. Ryan was elected Secretai-y of the Association, the first layman to hold this position. He was at the same time graduate manager of athletics. In January, 1926, the present incumbent succeeded Mr. Ryan and be­came the first full-time, paid alumni secretary. One girl was added to the Alumni Office for general secretarial and records work in 1927. Growth of the records department made it necessary to add another girl in 1929. 
PURPOSE 
According to the first Constitution, 1868, the purpose of the Association was: "To preserve and strengthen the common tie that binds us to each other and Alma Mater, by means of yearly reunions and by literary correspond­
• ence." 
This philosophical purpose was broadened a bit by the 1908 Constitution: "The object of the Association shall be to promote friendly relations among the alumni of the University and to further interests of Alma Mater in such ways as may be considered best. "The school now entered the picture prominently and properly. 
The 1925 Constitution stated: "The objects of this Association shall be to foster a spirit of loyalty and fra­ternity among the graduates and former students of the University of Notre Dariie; to establish more effective relations between the University, the Alumni and the Alumni Association; to co-operate with the University in carrying out proposals looking toward its progress and welfare; and particularly to advance the interest, influence and usefulness of the University of Notre Dame." This clause was unquestionably the result of the Association's participation in the campaign for the expansion program, and emphasized this phase of alumni activity. 
The present revised instrument, under which we are operating, simplifies the wording beyond any of the above clauses, but the significance of the relationships in these years is incalculably greater. The formal statement is: "The object of this Association shall be to foster a spirit of loyalty and fraternity among the graduates and former students of Notre Dame; to establish more effective rela­tions between the University and the Alumni Association. 
PRESENT STATUS 
The Alumni -A.ssociation, in addition to the personnel of the central office listed above and the publication of the magazine, has a number of auxiliai-y phases of organiza­tion which it maintains and motivates. 
Class Secretaries, to the number of 42, are in contact with the Alumni Office with news of their classmates, graduate and non-graduate. 
Sixty-six Local Clubs, three of which are abroad, are constantly furthei-ing the identification and interests of more than 11,000 Notre Dame men. 
The Local Alumni Club Council, composed of representa­tives from these Clubs, has met twice with resulting progress in Club organization, which will be further stim­
ulated when the new Constitutional provision for Districts 
becomes effective. 
Forty-two Class Agents began last year the important 
v.-ork of building up the Living Endowment. 
These are the perennial activities, changing only as they 
increase. Temporary activities arise constantly to occupy 
the time and attention of the formal alumni organization. 
The Rockne Memorial is the current outstanding example. 
Commencement and Universal Notre Dame Night form 
two annual red letter periods on the Office calendar, brief 
in their actual functioning, but unending in their detailed 
preparation. 
COSTS 
This development has cost more and more from year 
to year. Income, solely from dues, has not been able to 
keep pace this past year. A check for comparative costs 
shows that the average Alumni Association, conducting 
the above rather standard activities, spends from $3 to 55 
per alumnus. Those who have taken the trouble to study 
the Notre Dame budget will know that our annual ex­
penditure per alumnus has been approximately $2.50. 
Various suggestions have been made, . various plans tried, for increasing the ALUMNUS advertising revenue. It is not only our experience, but that of practically every alumni Tr.agazine in a corresponding position, that this is vain effort. Except for particular types of alumni maga­zines, expert advice is to expect nothing from the source. 
Whereas the average alumni association receives 40% of its support in the form of subsidies from the college, our Office has actually received no outright subsidy for the past several years other than the Office itself. How­ever, the University has given to the Alumni, in the form of free housing at Commencement, the Alumni Banquet, the Religious Survey, and in unremunerated services to individuals, facilities which can broadly be translated into a substantial sum, but which cannot be invoked to balance the annual deficit. Ultimately, broadly, it helps the Asso­ciation. Immediately, we still have the futile struggle to make ends meet. 
PROSPECTS 
The Alumni Association cannot be evaluated by its books. The objective of the Association is not its receipt for dues. It is the alumnus himself. As a man cannot be adequately measured by a given year of his life, and even the dead leave certain doubts, so it is with the Association in any attempt to tag its market value. 
A Columnist recently commented that "The world would be better off if fewer people were trying to get something for nothing, and more were getting it." 
That is our situation. 
If fewer seekers and more givers were mixed with that substantial body of members who in this distressed era find it impossible to meet their just obligations, the straits in which the Association finds itself would be far less con­fining. Service-to those who need service could be main­tained and increased. The paying member would receive more value in return for his investment. 
CONCLUSION 
Five dollars from you, whose current dues are unpaid, can save the situation. Five dollars from all of you, a miracle of course, would work even greater miracles in return. But that is our problem. Yours is only to send $5. 
Feb.-Mar., 1932 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 


Living Endowment Brings Belloc To N. D. 
Fund Also Used to Increase Libraries, Equip Laboratories, Purchase Altar In Alumni Hall; Use Exceeds Anticipation. 
SEAT O? ADMINISTRATION PROBLEJIS 
The following letter from the Presi­dent of the University to the Treasur­er of the Alumni Association expresses the disposition of the proceeds of the first year's Living Endowment Fund —evidencing aid in the academic iield which even the most optimistic of the Fund's friends had scarcely dared to hope. This despite a deduction of substantial proportions to finance the inauguration of the Fund and its re­sulting demands upon the Alumni Office for more intensive equipment and labor. 
With the launching of the Roekne Memorial, the Association has, this year, laid little stress upon the need of the University for unrestricted funds. But in the President's letter two things are significant. First is the tendency of the first year's con­tributors to carry out this request for unrestricted funds—only 13% of the actual contribution being subject to even the general restriction of Col­lege. (The preponderance of restrict­ed gifts to Engineering from the smallest proportionate group of alum­ni is interesting.) 
Second is the almost unbelievable results the University has been able to obtain with this comparatively small amount of income. The secur­ing of Hilaire Belloc, brilliant Cath­olic writer and speaker, is itself a fitting sequel to the securing of G. K. Chesterton for a series of lectures a year ago, that series also being made possible by a member of the Alumni Association. Approximately 1650 was spent in the addition of needed books to the libraries of the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Engineering, Commerce and Law, while $50 was spent in the College of Science for the addition of effective stereopticon equipment. 
Alumni Hall, as a result of the beautiful marble altar for its chapel, imported from Italy where it was made from a design by Maginnis and Walsh, architects of the Hall and its chapel. 
Another achievement of the year, made possible by the Fund, was the cataloguing of the famous Dante Library of the University. The Dante collection was begun and largely de­veloped through' the efforts of the lats and famous Eev. Dr. John A. Zahm, C.S.C, explorer, scholar, scientist and author. It contains more than 2,800 volumes in 40 languages. The col­lection is augmented by medallions, bronzes, marbles and photographs, and additions are made as the occa­sion arises; It is this marvelous col­lection, one of the world's best in its field, that has been subjected to the invaluable but expensive process of efficient cataloguing through the agency of the Living Endowment Fund. 
The success of this first year's la­bors in the field of raising annual gifts from alumni ought to be the best evidence of the unlimited poten­tialities in this direction. If achieve­ment is the best form of argument, subsequent efforts in raising the an­nual Living Endowment Fund ought to attain increasingly substantial suc­cess. 
February 15, 1932. Mr. Walter Duncan, Treasurer, Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, LaSalle, Illinois. Dear Mr. Duncan: 
I acknowledge with thanks your cheek on behalf of the Alumni Asso­ciation for $5,800.00, representing the net returns to the University for the first year of the Living Endowment collection. 
Through the genei-al office of the Alumni Association I learn that the total of this Fund for the year was $9,510.00, and that the difference be­tween this total and the amount re­ceived by the University represents expenses of promotion and collection, as follows: 
Addressom^ph Efiuipment 
m total cost) % 550.00 Cost of the Alumnus (less than ^). . 800.00 Percentage of oflice personnel expense 1410.00 Printing and posta;;e 750.00 Miscellaneous (travel, literature, etc^. 200.00 
Total JS710.00 
From the same course, I learn that designated gifts amount to $688.00, as follows: 
3 members of the College of Arts and Letters $ 37.00 6 members of the College of Science .. . 40.00 
•li members of the College of Engineering 316.00 
10 members of the College of Commerce..- 170.00 4 members of the College of Law 125.00 
Total restricted 5688.00 
The total of unrestricted gifts, therefore, is $5,112.00. 
These restricted gifts have in every case been allocated according to the donor's wishes. Except for the dona­tion to the College of Science which was applied to stereopticon equip­ment, the other gifts were applied to the libraries of the Colleges in ques­tion. The unrestricted amount of $5,­
112.00was used for the following pur­poses : 
The Main Altar of the Chapel in Alumni Hall (a nlarble altar designed by Maginnis and Walsh and imported from Italy), the cataloguing of the Dante Library, and a course of lec­tures to be given at Notre Dame this spring by Hilaire Belloc. 
May I say that the results of the Living Endowment Movement during this first and most difficult year are significant and satisfactory, render­ing firmer still, it seems to me, the ties that bind together the Alumni Association and the University in a mutual devotedness which we like to believe is peculiarly our own. 
With appreciation of your personal service in this movement, and of so much else in the way of devotion and self-sacrifice, I am. 
Sincerely yours, KEV. CHARLES L . O'DONNELL, President. 
Fund, is the proud possessor of a LiBRARy BENEFITS FROM ALUMNI FUND. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS Feb.-Mar., 19S2 
BULLETINS 
Father Lavin Dies 
The ALUMNUS learns at press 
time of the death of Rev. Walter A. 
Lavin, C.S.C., Litt. B. '10, in St. Paul, 
Minn., on February 28. Father Lavin 
has suffered ill health for some 
months, but returned to Notre Dame 
for a few weeks after an almost 
miraculous recovery. A return of his 
illness caused him to go back to 
Mayo's. Father Lavin was president 
of Sacred Heart College, Watertown, 
lti02-3. He was assistant professor 
of Latin at Notre Dame from 1908­
17 and came back to the University 
from Columbia U. in Portland in 
1928. He was rector of Sorin Hail 
at the time illness forced him to re­
tire. During his career at Notre 
Dame he was also rector of Badin 
and Sophomore halls. He was born 
at -Lawrence, Mass., Sept. 15, 1878, 
coming to Notre Dame first in 1897 
and remaining for three years. 
Dr. Austin O'Malley Dies 
Dr. .JVustin O'.Malley, LL.D. '95, aged 73, for seven years a professor of English literature at Notre Dame is dead. He achieved fame in both the arts and the sciences. Dr. O'Malley died in Philadelphia, Feb­ruary 25 after a year's illness. Dr. O'Malley was a brother of Frank Ward O'Malley, '99, journalist and playwright. He was at N. D. 1895­1902. 
New York Club Elects 
John E. Kenney, '21, was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of New York City on Feb. 25. The Class of '26 corralled the other officers with the election of William Reid as vice-president, Norbert "Doc" Gelson as secretary, and Edward Fallon as treasurer. The second annual retreat of the Club has been announced for March 18-21 at the Loyola House of Retreats, Moirristown, N. J. The re­treat is open to alumni and their friends. 
Appoints N. D. Delegate 
Thomas D. Lyons, Litt.B. '04, was appointed on Feb. 20 by Gov. "Alfal­fa Bill" Murray, as a delegate from the 1st District, Okla. (Tulsa) to the National Democratic Convention in Chicago. Forty-eight delegates from Oklahoma will attend to cast the state's 22 votes. The delegation was bound by the state convention to sup­port Murray for the nomination, "as long as he has a chance." 

George Ryan Is Breen Medalist 
George Ryan, El Paso, Texas, speaking on "Prohibition, An American Tragedy," won the Breen Medal and the oratorical championship of the Uni­versity in Washington Hall on January 14. Ryan is a Senior A.B. 
This year's victorj-, won over able competition, is the 47th award of this symbol of eloquence, awarded through the generosity of the late William P. Breen, '77, of Fort Wayne, Ind. The award has annually stimulated a high interest and a brilliant achievement in the field of oratory at Notre Dame, best evidenced by the list of Medalists, which follows: 
LIST OF MEDALLISTS (BREEN) 
1886 in aequo DANIEL P. BYRXES, LL.B.,* and DONALD LATSHAW, Kansas City, Mo. 
1887 PHILIP V. BROWNSOX, A.B.* 
1888 CHARLES J. STUBBS, LL.B., 212 - 22nd St., Galveston, Te.xas 
1889 HOMER P. BBELSFORD, .\.B., 200 N. Daugherty St., Eastland, Texas 1890 JOHN S. HUMMER, LL.B., 69 W. Washington St., Chicago, Illinois 1891 JAMES J. FITZGIBEOXS, Litt.B., Newark Trust Bldg., Newark, Ohio 1892 The Medal was not awarded. 1893 H. LAMAR MONARCH, Litt.B., Glen View, Richmond, Indiana 1894 HUGH K. O'DOXXELL', Litt.B., The New York Times, New York City 1895 EUSTACE CULLIXAN, SR., .\.B., 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 1896 JOHX G. MOTT, LL.B., Citizens Bank Bldg., Los jVngeles, Calif. 1897 CHARLES M . BRYAN, Litt.B., 1640 Peabody Ave., Memphis, Tennessee 1898 Louis C. M. REED, 19 W. 44th St., New York City 1899 PAUL J. RAGAN, .A..B., Maumee, Ohio 1900 ALFRED J. DUPERIER, LL.B., 2127 Broadway, Beaumont, Texas 1901 JOSEPH W . KENXEY, Richmond, Indiana 1902 JOHN L. CORLEY, LL.B., 4463 Lindell Blvd., St. Louis, Missouri 1903 THOMAS D . LYOXS, Litt.B., Hunt Bldg., Tulsa, Oklahoma 1904 (Rev.) MAURICE GRIFFIN, Litt.B., 13824 Euclid .A.ve., E. Cleveland, Ohio 1905 STEPHEN GAVIX, 116 Sycamore St., Modesto, Califoraia 1906 EDWARD F . O'FLYXX, Ph.B., 1212 Joseph Vance Bldg., Seattle, Wash. 1907 (Very Rev.) JAMES W. DONAHUE, C.S.C, Litt.B., Notre Dame, Indiana 1908 (Rev.) JOSEPH J. BOYLE, C.S.C.,Litt.B., College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. 1909 (Rev.) I. E. MCNAMEE, A.B., St. Francis Rectory, 54 E. 11th, Portland, Ore. 1910 (Rev.) FRANCIS WENNINGER, C.S.C, LittB., Notre Dame, Indiana 1911 (Rev.) CHARLES C. MILTXER, C.S.C, Ph.B., Notre Dame, Indiana 1912 WiLLLAM J. MILROY, LL.B., 10012 South Park Blvd., Chicago, Illinois 1913 SLMON E . TUNING, Ph.B.* (died in the World War) 
1914 EMMETT LEXIHAX, Ph.B., 506 McDowell Bldg., Seattle, Washington 1915 J. CLOVIS SMITH, Ph.B.* (died in the World War) 1916 TIMOTHY P. GALWX, Ph.B., 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana 1917 BERNARD J. VOLL, Ph.B., Sibley Machine Co., South Bend, Indiana 1918 JOHN A. LEJIMEB, Ph.B., 1110 Eighth Ave., Escanaba, Michigan 1919 CORNELIUS PALJIER, 39 S. La Salle, Chicago, Illinois 1920 PAUL R. CONAGHAN, Ph.B., 208 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois 1921 RAYMOND M. GALLAGHER, Litt.B., 4515 Washington Blvd., Chicago, 111. 1922 JAMES W . HOGAN, Litt.B., Kewanee, Illinois 1923 JOHN E . DUFFY, A.B., Lafayette, Indiana 1924 MARK E . NOLAN, LL.B., Gilbert, Minnesota 1925 HARRY MCGUIRE, A.B., Outdoor Life Publishing Co., Denver, Colorado 1926 WiLLLVM J. COYNE, A.B., Notre Dame, Indiana 1927 JAMES C.ROY, A.B., 1029 Northwood Blvd., Fort Wayne, Indiana 1928 THOMAS LEE, A.B., 1249 Fulton Road, Canton, Ohio 1929 PATRICK B . DUFFY, C.S.C, A.B., Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C 1930 FRANK E . CORBETT, A.B., 1524 Wells St., Fort Wayne, Indiana 1931 FRANK MCGREAL, A.B., 7028 Merrill Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1932 GEORGE B . RYAN, Senior A.B. Student, Home, El Paso, Texas 
* Deceased. 
Feb.-Mar.,  1932  TH E  NOTR E  DAM E  ALUMNU S  139  
THE  WORLD OF  THE  INSECTS  
By REV. FRANCIS J. WENNINGER, C.S.C, M.S., Ph.D., Dean of the College of Science, University of Notre Dame  

• 
• 
, 
t 
• 
• 
t 
• 
(ED. NOTE: The following article is a re­print of Fatlier WenninRcr's broadcast from the South Bend 7Vi&i(iie radio station. inauR­uratin;; a series of broadcasts on topics of scientific, lesai. commercial and Kcneral cul­tural topics by members of the University faculty. The broadcasts have already met with Krcat success, establishing; a most valuable re­lationship with the community in matters academic.) 
 If you had been a soldier of Napo­
leon it might have been your fortune 
to march at the head of a column 
commanded by General Count Dejeau, 
one of the Little Corporal's bravest 
aids. You would have become accus­
tomed to the sight of your com­
mander, garbed in the colorful uni­
 form of a general of infantry, every 
inch a soldier from the soles of his 
boots to the crown of his top-hat. But 
it is the hat only that for the moment 
interests us because of its curious 
appearance. The general was an en­
thusiastic bug hunter and, even dur­
 ing his military campaigns, used his 
leisure moments to hunt insects, and 
to fasten the captured bugs with pins 
to the outside of his hat. .\t the battle of Wagram, a shot struck him and he was thrown from his horse. Napoleon hastened to the side of the wounded general and asked if he were  still alive. The answer was, "I am Sire, but alas, my insects are all gone." This is the interest of the enthusiast. It is the interest of a Swammerdam who wished for a year of uninterrupted light so that he might work on his bees; or, of a Boerhave who spent an entii-e day  cleaning a caterpillar of his fat; or, of the German who patiently counted forty thousand muscles in a larva. It is the interest that caused Lady. Glanville of England to be suspected of insanity, and that inspires the cari­cature of the entomologist of today. But it is an interest that grows with  acquaintance because he who turns his attention to the vast world of in­sects will find among its tiny folk more occasions to marvel than Gulli­ver in all his travels, and more reason to wonder than the companion of the adventurous Baron Munchhausen. 
 Insects deserve attention for many reasons; first of all, because of their numbers and wide range of distribu­tion. If it were possible to collect in one place a single specim.en of each species of animals that inhabit the earth, four or five individuals in this collection would be found to be ift­ sects. There are, for example, forty thousand species of flies: over three hundred kinds of mosquitoes: nearly a thousand kinds of bees; a thousand kind.<: of cockroaches; six hundred kinds of grasshoppers; two thousand kinds of dragon flies; two thousand kinds of Lady birds; and over a hun­dred and fifty thousand kinds of beetles. Within a radius represented by an hour's motor ride, more kinds of insects can be found than there are species of birds in the whole world; and within an hour's walk more kinds than there are species of mammals in all creation. For insects abound everywhere, — on land and water, in field and forest, on the mountain and in the plain, even in and upon other animals and man. 
The economic relation of insects to man is worth considering. In our day and age, the dollar is the com­mon standard for determining values. Judged by this standard, the study of insects is of momentous importance. The loss sustained by the country's hay crop last year was over twenty millions of dollars. Three times that amount was lost through the ravages of insects that attack our stored grain, while four times that amount, or eighty five millions of dollars represents last year's loss in cereals. The tobacco crop was damaged to the extent of two millions of dollars; the potato crop was depreciated to the extent of ten millions and the cotton industry suffered a loss of sixteen millions of dollars. There is not a staple article raised that does not suffer depreciation due to destructive insects. Now although only about one species in a hundred is harmful, the grand total of losses caused an­nually through the ravages of insects in America is well over a billion dol­lars. Each time we pay seven dol­lars in taxes, one of these dollars is made necessary because of the depre­dations of insects. This is an. item in the economic life of the nation that may not be overlooked. 
The temptation is strong to speak only of injurous insects. But it will be more advantageous to confine at­tention to the insect world in general rather than attempt an exhaustive study of any particular group there­of. Man stands unique among the creatures of God. He boasts of his ­prowess, and takes complacent de­light in the contemplation of his high prerogatives. But this is justified only when he considers himself in his entirety, as a creature made up of body and soul. When he begins to take stock of his bodily perfections and to compare these with similar qualities found in insects, his pride suffers a severe shock. Man is neither as strong as the insect nor as swift; his senses are duller, his actions 
clumsier and even his bodily pulchri­tude is surpassed by that of myriads of crawling beetles. 
While he can lift hardly a third his own weight, the lowly mole, cricket can parade the garden path loaded with a weight which is three hundred and seventy-five times that of its own body. While man is moving his arms once up and down, the house fly moves its homologous organ, the wing, three thousand six hundred times. There are about three hun­dred and seventy-five muscles in the human body, but a caterpillar usually has over four thousand, and ten times that number have been found in some species. Man and the larger mam­mals have a sense of smell which re­sides in two olfactory grooves, but the common June bug has several thousands of these. If an athlete could jump as high in proportion to his height as the despised flea, the world's record for the high jump would be somewhere around half a mile. And even so ordinary a func­tion as the taking of food becomes insignificant because if a man ate as. much in proportion to his weight as a caterpillar he would require a daily ration of a thousand pounds. 
Nor is man justified in taking un­due pride in what he is pleased to . call modem inventions and discov­eries. While primitive man knew no better anesthetic than a club, the glow worm concocted a potion so po­tent that nothing could disturb the sleep which it induced. Long before 
. fire was invented or coal was mined, the social bee employed in hive ven­tilation the identical principles that the modem engineer uses in keeping the air pure in the coal mines. 
Centuries before man thought of cold storage and sterile preservation, the wasp was keeping meat fresh for wee-ks, and the bee was storing honey that remained fresh indefinitely. The Eumenes wasp was a fim'shed potter, employing fine natural cements and excellent hydraulic mortars, thou­sands of generations before man knew how to fashion a flint. The bom­bardier beetle employed gas against its enemies for uncounted centuries before the oriental invented the stink pot or modem man' resorted to gas in warfare. Of the energy that goes into the best electric bulb of today, the best engineering skill at our com­mand can convert only two per cent into light while ninety-eight per cent is lost as heat. But the fire-fly long ago reversed this proportion. 
Insects have a food value in only a few isolated regions of the. world. The Moors fry locusts in butter made of camel's milk; the pupae of silk worms are eaten in China; and some species of moths are relished in Af­rica, Some Me.Kican Indians make an infusion of Tiger beetles which has a potency that the average American home brew cannot approach. 
The contributions of insects to the world's commerce are not unimpor­tant. Shellac which is used to wax our floors, to stiffen derby hats and to make discs for phonographs, is made of lac, the secretion of an Asi­atic scale. The Spanish fly is a beetle which is transformed into one of the medical world's principal blistering agents and it also forms an ingredi­ent of many hair washes. Tannic acid and ink are derived from galls; a scale insect is used to make a dye that is still superior to the siTithetic dyestuffs used in coloring garments. The silk worm manufactures the world's niost prized textile fibres, and the honey bee makes one of civi­lization's most delectable sweets. 
The body of an insect is composed of three parts,—a. head, thorax and abdomen. Each of these parts in turn is composed of a number of sep­arate rings or segments. The head is a sort of box, composed of six seg­ments welded into a single piece, and having here and there joints that are more or less strongly marked and, in some instances, scarcely visible. To the head are attached the jointed antennae or feelers, the eyes and the mouth parts. Antennae are always 
•composed of segments, the number of which varies between three and forty and is so constant in the sev­eral species as to constitute a definite basis for classification. When the in­sect is in repose, the antennae are usually folded along the back or the sides, though there are insects that have a special groove in the side of the body for the reception of the an­tennae. At least eight kinds of feelers are recognized by entomolo­gists. They are organs of percep­tion of such delicacy that, compared to them, the nose of a setter is a dull organ indeed. 
Insects have either simple or com­pound eyes, though not a few have both. A simple eye consists of a single lens; compound eyes are made up of many lenses, called facets. The number of facets varies greatly in the different families. The ant has about fifty facets in each eye; the hawk moth has thirteen hundred; the house fly has four thousand; the silk worm has six thousand two hundre and thirty-six; the dragon fly has about fifteen thousand; and the blue swallow tail butterfly has over sev­enteen thousand; and, the Mordella, a small beetle, has over twenty flve thousand. Simple eyes usually occur in threes. Very probably the range of vision of the simple eye is not more than two or three inches. There are entomologists who claim that in­sects with simple eyes can do little more than distinguish light from darkness. The compound eye is sup­posed to have a range of about two or three yards, though experiments on this point are not conclusive. There are insects that have no eyes at all. These have lost their eyes by degeneration. 
Insects exhibit an amazing variety of habits. The female mosquito likes blood; the honey bee and the butter­fly suck up the nectar of the flowers; the cinch bug sucks the juice from the com leaves; the maple worm bites and chews the leaves of our shade trees; the carrion beetle eats animal matter; the house fly laps up syrup and rasps off sugar; grain weavels eat starches; bird lice devour feath­ers and hair; clothes moths and car­pet beetles eat our clothes and car­pets. For this variety of food habits nature has designed a variety of mouth parts. One insect has biting mouth parts, another has a sucking mouth, while a third has a piercing beak and a lapping tongue. But all these parts are but modifications of three fundamental structures, — the mandible, the maxillae and the labi­um. Mandibles may be strong jaws for crushing, as in the locust; or trowel-like as in the honey bee; or ' long slender saws, as in the scorpion flies; or they may be reduced to mere rudiments, or lacking altogether, as in some butterflies. 
The thorax is always composed of three segments. Each of these bears a pair of legs, and the last t%vo have wings. Of course, not all insects have wings, nor do all insects have the same kind of wings. The hard scale of the beetle and the soft leathery wing of the fly are typical examples. The wings may, be com­pared to a net. Now if you imagine the fibers that compose the net to be hollow and to be filled with air, and the spaces between the tubes to be bridged with a membrane, you will have a fair idea of the structure of a wing. • The rate of vibration of the wings varies from about nine times a second in the cabbage butterfly to three hundred an thirty-three per second in the house fly. When the in­sect is in flight, the wings describe a figure eight. AH insects have six legs. This rule has no exceptions, though in some cases all the legs are not equally developed. 
From what has been said, it will be inferred that the insect body is sub­ject to great variations. This is the case. In size, insects vary from the tiny four-winged chalcid that has de^ veloped in the egg of another insect, to the Phasmids of the tropics,— walking sticks, ten to twelve inches in length, and the great' Formosan dragon flies with a wing expanse of ten inches. An insect from the Car­boniferous period has been found that had a wing expanse of just two feet. The muscular system varies from the simple worm-like structure of the caterpillar to the highly com­plicated system of the house fly and the bee. 
The alimentarj- canal is a tube, that of the plant feeders being longer than that of the flesh eaters. There are salivary glands in insects but no liver and no kidneys. The functions of the kidneys are taken care of by long thread-like tubes of the intes­tine, called Malpighian tubules. The circulatory system is interesting be­cause the blood does not, as in our bodies, carry oxygen to the tissue.s, and because it is not enclosed in ar­teries or veins. There is a simple tube containing from three to eight chambers which communicate with each other. The blood is forced from one to the other of these chambers from the posterior to the anterior, and from there to the body cavity. Here it bathes all the tissues,—but, it is never enclosed in any vessel. 
Insects do not breathe through the mouth, nor through any other open­ing in the head. Instead they have air supplied through openings on the sides of the thorax and abdomen. There are from two to ten spiracles or pairs of these openings, called stigmata. To prevent dust or any other foreign particles from entering, they are guarded by fine hairs, or, in some cases, by little valves or lids. From these openings, a system of delicate air tubes ramifies so perfect­ly that the whole of the insect's body is reached. Insects that live in water have gills like a fish, or they may come up for air, or they take the air down vrith them in the form of small bubbles. 
The nervous system consists usual­ly of a brain and a ventral chain of paired ganglia. These ganglia or swellings of nervous tissue are seg­mentally arranged and connected by a pair of longitudinal cords. There is also a sympathetic nervous sys­tem. It is very small and is con­nected with the central system by cords. 
The organs of special sense are in­teresting because of their unusual­ness as compared with the more fa­miliar structure of the corresponding' organs in our own bodies. As insects know the world it must be a matter depending very largely upon the character and capacity of their sense organs. But the difSculty of under­standing the sense life of the lower animals is obvious when it is re­called that our only knowledge of the character of their sense perceptions 
Feb.-Mar., 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
depends solely on our experiences of our own perceptions, and on the ba­sis of comparison with this. We do not know whether or not hearing is the same same experience with in­sects that it is with us. But a com­parison of the structure of the in­sect organism with our own, and a course of experimentation with the sense of hearing, based on experi­mentation with our own senses, leads to what we believe is real knowledge of the special senses of the insects. Insects certainly have the senses of touch, hearing, smell and sight. If they possess other senses, these have so far remained undiscovered, and will probably always remain so since we have no criteria for recognizing other senses. The sense of touch re­sides in the hairs scattered abundant­ly and more or less regularly over the body. Each of these hairs has at its base a ganglionis nerve cell from which a fine nerve runs to some body ganglion. The sense of taste resides in certain small papillae or tips that are found on the upper wall of the mouth and on the mouth parts. Ants have been given morphine mixed wit'i honey—and have promptly refused it. They were also tried on strychnine and the result was the same. Wasps can taste at least certain drugs, and have been known to recognize quinine and alum. Probably the most perfect­ly developed sense among insects is that of smell. The smelling organs are microscopic pits to be found usually on the antennae but also on other parts, notably on the mouth. 
We know this from experiments that have been made on insects that had their antennae clipped off or (•oated with paraffin. Insects thus treated do not find food nor do they find their mates. The sensitiveness of the insect to smell sensations seems to depend, in some measure at 'east, on the number of these pits. The ordinaiy carrion beetle has about forty thousand pits on a single leaf of the antennae,—and there are six to eight leaves in each antennae. Miss Field has shown that ants rec­ognize each other by the sense of smell. Mayer's experiments show the high degree of the specialization of the sense of smell in Promethea, a large moth. He carried four hun­dred and fifty cocoons from Massa­chusetts to Florida Keys. Here they hatched, several hundred miles from home. Some females •were enclosed in bottles with the mouth of the bottle closed with netting. Others were enclosed in sealed jars. Males were released at various distances and soon found their way to the jars that were open to the air, but never to those that were sealed. Other males that had their antennae cov­ered with shellac never found the fe­males, though all the females were in plain view^ through the glass of 
the bottles. Other males had their hear the call of the queen and remain 
eyes covered with pitch, but it made quite unresponsive to the report of a 
no difference, they always found the thirty-eight calibre pistol is a ques­
females as long as their antennae tion that has not been answered. 
were free. And so the story of the insects 
goes on. Only a fragment has been 
That insects can hear is proved offered. A lew facts only have been by their possession of auditory or­told; many more have been omitted. gans, and also by experiment. These Enough has been said, however, to organs are situated in various places prove that not the heavens alone on the body. The locust has them on show forth the glory of God, nor is the abdomen; the katydid has them it only the firmament that declared on the foreleg. Experimenters have the work of His Hands. For His been able to demonstrate the vibra­Name is on the forehead of every tory rate that is best for some in­creature and His Hand is not short­sects. For instance, it has been de­ened in creating the bug that squirms termined that five hundred and in the mire, or the mole that digs in twelve vibrations per second will set the ground. For by the greatness of all the hairs of the mosquito vibrat­the creature the Creator of them all ing. Just why it is that bees w-ill may be seen. 
<> 
PROGRAM OF RADIO LECTURES 
By members of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame From the studio of Station WSBT-WFAM of the South Bend Tribune On the dates given in the program below. 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
February S—"The Insect World." by Rev. Francis J. "Wenninser, C.S.C.. Ph.D., dean of the Collesc of Science. 
February 10—"The Story of the Bacteria." by Jlr. J. Arthur Reyniers. M.S., instructor in biology. Februar>- 15—"The ChanKini; Scene of Animai Life," by Jlr. William L. Ensels, B.S.. instructor in biolojry-
THE COLLEGE OF LAW 
February' 17—"The Pecline in Oivnership." by Mr. Clarence E. Jlanion, D.D., professor of law. 
February 22—"The Delays in LitiKation." by Judjre William M. Cain. LL.B., assistant professor 
of lau-, 
February -4—"The Lawyer and the Public." by Mr. Thomas F. Konop. LL.B.. dean of the CoJIese of Law. 
THE COLLEGE OF CO.MJtERCE February 29—"The Place of a College of Commerce in Preparing Students for Business Leader­
ship," by Rev. Thomas A. Lahcy. C.S.C., Ph.D. March 2—"Business Ethics." by Mr. Eusene J. Payton, LL.B.. associate professor of marketing. March 7—"Speculations and Investments," Mr. Lee T. Flatley. M.S., instructor in marketing. 
THE COLLEGE OF .\RTS AND LETTERS 
March 9—"Contemporary Views of the Universe," by Mr. Daniel G. O'Grady. Ph.D., assistant 
professor of philosophy. 
March 14—"Backgrounds in Literature," by Jlr. Charles Phillips. M..\., professor of Engjish­
O'Grady Writes Text; Chesterton Prefaces It 
Professor Daniel C. O'Grady, Ph.D., The book contains a survey and of the Department of Philosophy, has study of Cosmology in general; its joined the select group of faculty material has its basis in the mimeo­members who have contributed books • graphed sheets now used in the Uni­to the field of philosophy, it has be­versity cosmology classes, and also come known, with the publication of written by Doctor O'Grady. Five his book "Cosmology." years' work was needed to assimilate 
The edition was published by the the material in the book; the present University Press of Ottawa, Canada. edition stands as one of the most The book is being used as a text in 
finished and up-to-date of its kind. the Junior classes in cosmology in the Besides the publication of the book, University during this semester. Professor O'Grady has recently writ­The preface of the edition is writ­ten two articles which have appeared ten by Gilbert K. Chesterton, well in the Catholic School Journal and known to University students, who the Revue de I'Universit^ of Ottaiua, makes some interesting remarks in entitled, "Seven Lamps of Education" inimitable style. and 'The Heart Versus the Head." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Feb.-Mar., 1932 
N. D. Militarists Active 
In addition to Capt. Kobert Rior­dan, '24, of the Field Artillery Re­serve, who has an article in this is­sue, Joseph Apodaca, '30, instructor in economics, is slated for a commi.-­sion in the Military Intelligence Re­serve; Clarence Kaplan, '31, a mem­ber of the coaching staff, is working for a commission in the Infantry Re-sen-e Corps; John C. Boyle, a stu­dent, is also working in this field, and Robert Streb, a senior Commerce student from Canton, Ohio, recently received a second lieutenancy in the Field Artillery Resen-e Corps. 
Campus Clubs Regulated 
Activity in campus clubs was stim­ulated by the Presidents' Council at a recent meeting with the following regulations: (1) Every campus or­ganization must hold at least two regular meetings during a semester or forfeit its charter; (2) Beginning in September, 1933, no city or state club will be permitted to function unless it has an alumni club organized at home. 
Both rulings are aimed at a strengthening of the particular stu­dent organizations at Notre Dame that have the greatest influence on student and alumni activities. The last ruling of the Council is a bit rigid, but is directed along the co­operative lines that the Alumni Office has sought to introduce for the Alum­ni Clubs in conjuiiction with the un­dergraduate units from similar areas. 
Glee Club Intensifies Work 
In preparation for an extensive spring campaign. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, '23, director of the Uni­versity Glee Club, has cut his last semester's organization of 125 voices-to 65. Negotiations are well along for an Eastern tour during the Easter holidays, but final arrangements are not complete at this writing. Mate­rial is abundant and good this year. Appearances to date have shown a Club of excellent quality. 
Downey Heads Lay Faculty 
Professor William Downey of the department of economics was elected president of the Lay Faculty Club of the College of Arts and Letters at a meeting on January 18. It was at this meeting that the paper by Robert Riordan, '24, Registrar, which ap­pears in this issue, was presented. Prof. John M. Cooney, department of journalism, is ^^ice-president of the Lay Faculty group, and Professor George Wack, department of modern languages, is secretary-treasurer. 
RAY MILLER ELECTED 
Hox. RAVJIOND T. MILLER, LL.B. '14 
HIS Honor, Mayor Miller! The length!! article in the Jannary ALUM­NUS concerning Ray Miller told all but the important fact which has aince happened — Ra!/ was elected Mayor of Cleveland on the IGth of Febiiiary by a substantial majority. It was a tremendous personal triumph over tradition and strong opposition. The'ALUMNUS extends the con­gratulations of the Notre Dame alum­ni everywhere to Mayor Miller. Mayor Miller is a brother of Harry Miller, nominee for President of the .Associa­tion, among other brothers, (cf. Don, Jerry and Walter in numerous issues of the .ALUMNUS.) 
Old Freshman Hall Closed 
Freshman Hall (old), the tempo-i-ary structure that was to have been torn down in the Fall but for the de­sire to reduce the number of off-cam­pus students, has been vacated for the second semester by moring its first semester residents into the various vacancies that the exigencies of finan­cial and academic credit caused. Only 28G students are now under the tech­nical category of off-campus students. Another 214 reside in South Bend but are native sons. Alumni will welcome this development of the University's Back-to-the-Campus movement. 
John V. Hinkel on Ochs 
John V. Hinkel, '29, now with the New York Times, has had a book "The Contribution of Adolph S. Ochs to Journalism," published in a limited edition by the daughter of Mr. Ochs. Publisher Ochs has iratten Author Hinkel, "I consider your work the greatest compliment ever paid me in the' field of journalism." 
John Kolars Dies 
John Kolars, 33 years old, a stu­dent at Notre Dame in .1921 - 22, veteran of the World War, died in Walla Walla, Wash., February 20, after a number of years of illness as an aftermath of naval service during the war. Jack was a son of Charles 
C. Kolars, '85, and a brother of Frank Kolars, '24. He was a charter mem­ber of the Notre Dame post. Veter­ans of Foreign Wars. He married Miss Dora Wright of Niles, Midi., who survives him, with two children, Barbara Jean and John F., Jr. His mother, a sister, Mary, and another brother, Charles, also survive him. He was buried February 24 in Walla Walla with a military funeral. 
Students Visit Washington 
A group of politics students, led by Instructor Paul Bartholomew, '29, will visit Washington, D. C, on a special educational tour during the Easter Holidays. The group ^viil visit points of interest, emphasizing those connected with the history of George Washington. The tour leaves South Bend March 20, lasting five days. A \'isit to Annapolis and the 
U. S. Naval Academy will be included. 
Fr. Miltner V-F of A. C. P. A. 
Rev. Charles C. Jliltner, C.S.C, '11, Dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters, was elected vice-president of the -American Catholic Philosophical As­sociation at its annual meeting in St. Louis recently. Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C. '20, Prof. William Roemer, Ph.D. '27, and Rev. Julian Sigmar also attended the convention. 
T. A. Daly Lectures 
Tom Daly, LL.D. '17, famous dia­lect poet, lecturer and humorist, ap­peared in one of his popular Wash­ington Hall presentations recently. He recited some of his Italian verse, told a number of interesting inci­dents. He praised Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell for his poetry. As always, his appearance was tremendously popular with a capacity audience. 
'Santa Maria' Is Yearly 
Notre Dame Council 1477 Knights of Columbus has announced that the Santa Maria, official Council publica­tion, formerly issued at several inter­vals during the year in magazine foiTn, will become a year-book. The name will be retained. May is the date of publication. Year-book tradi­tionsOTU govern the new form. Paul Hallinan, Painesville, Ohio, editor of the Dome of 1931, is editor of the Santa Maria this year. 

LATE CLUB NEWS 
. Chicago Club Elects 
The annual election of officers, and meeting, of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago was held at the Hamilton Club Thursday evening, Feb. 25. The speakers were Arch Ward, '21, sports 
JAMES H. BRENNAN", '20 
Retiring Chicago Club President 
editor of the Chi Trib, who praised football as a virile, vigorous sport, and threw over-emphasis for a 20­yard loss; Heartly "Hunk" Anderson, '22,- who told of the prospects of next year's team and commented on the new football rules. Hunk was intro­duced by his old teammate. Norm Barry, '21. 
Jim Brennan, '20, the retiring pres­ident of the Club, gave a summary of the year's activities, and introduced the treasurer, William R. Maher, '24, who reported as to the finances of the Club. 
An'amendment to the Constitution was passed which makes the president of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame, the student organization on the cam­pus (Wm. Bud Groves this year) an honorary member of the Board of Governors of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
John P. Gushing, '06, was elected honorary px-esident of the Club for the coming year. James A. Eonan, '26, was made president of the Club. William R. Maher, '24, became first vice-president and James F. Mc-Nicholas, '25, second vice-president. Robert D. Stephan, '27, is the new secretary, Thomas Spencer McCabe, '22, controls the funds as treasurer. 
The Board of Governors consists of Joseph J. Sullivan, '02, Thomas C. Donovan, '24, Joseph Kigali, '26, and the honorary member created by the new amendment, Wm. Groves of Notre Dame. 
Among the guests of the Club were Fire Chief Corrigan of Chicago, Wil­liam E. Donahue of the Chicago Tribune, and Judge Francis J. Vur­pillat, former member of the Uni­versity faculty, who spoke. 
At the conclusion of Jim Brennan's report, he was given a beautiful Glad­stone bag engraved, "To President Jim, from the Notre Dame Club of Chicago," as a testimonial from the members of the Club for his splendid work and leadership during the past year. Ed Gould, '23, made the speech of presentation. 
LATE CLEVELAND NEWS You are undoubtedly already aware of the election of Ray T. Miller as Mayor of Cleveland. You will also note from the other article which I have marked the death of Charles Rohr, father of Charles E. Rohr, Jr., of the class of 1930, chairman of our membership committee. Mr. Rohr received the Sacraments just prior to his death, and was buried from St. John's Ca­thedral here Saturday, February 20th in a very impressive ceremony which was attended by practically all of the city's dignitaries, including our new-mayor, Ray T. Miller, who was among the pall bearers. The Notre Dame Club attended the funeral in a body. We were very grateful to have had the pleasure of a visit with Dr. George Keogan who attended our luncheon, Saturday, February 13th while he was here with the basketball team. A good crowd turned out for the basketball game with Western Reserve, including Father 'Mike' Mo­riarty of Wooster, who spent the day with us. We hope Father Moriarty's visits will be more frequent in the future and we promise to have Gene Kane there the next time he comes. The old quartet couldn't function without Gene, which almost ruined a perfectly fine afternoon. The boys certainly played beautiful basketball and the game was thor­oughly enjoyed by everyone except Matt Trudelle, who was inclined to take exception to the absence of Notre Dame music. I received a letter from Paul Brady of Palnesville in which he sends re­gards to "all of the Clan." We hope Paul will come into town and see the "Clansman" more frequentlj'. George Ken-er, Secretary. 
Campus Architects Organize 
Architectural students have organ­ized a club on the campus to promote social and extra-curricular profes­sional activities. Cliff Hyland, a sen­ior of Rockford, 111., is the first pres­ident. 
Thirty-one February Alumni 
Thirty-one students finished the necessary work for degrees at the end of the first semester. Degrees, how­ever, will not be awarded until June. A doctorate and t\vo master's degrees were among those achieved. 
FREDERIC WILLIAM WILE 
Frederic William Wile, aliimniis of Notre Dame, native of Indiana, fa­mous Washington corresjwndent and political writer, is broadcasting the International Disarmament Program over the Columbia network from Geneva, Switzerland, each week dur­ing the progress of the conference. 
Scholastic Boxing Show 
A boxing show, under the auspices of the Notre Dame Scholastic, in the University gymnasium, recently net­ted the Bengal Mission Fund more than $300. The program was snappy throughout. A comedy feature bout between Corby and Sorin representa­tives was a highlight. A number of clever bouts and an interesting ex­hibition match pleased a large crowd. 
Indiana Bar to Meet Here 
The Indiana State Bar -Association will hold its annual summer conven­tion at Notre Dame early next July, Orlo R, Deahl, former South Bend judge and a special lecturer in the College of Law, made the announce­ment. Three hundred delegates will attend. The Association has met previously at Indiana and Purdue for conventions. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Feb.-Mar., 1932 
NOMINATING COMMITTEES REPORT EXCELLENT SLATES 1932-33 
HONORARY PRESIDENT Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90 Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07 
PRESIDENT Clarence Manion, '22, Noti-e Dame M. Hany Miller, '10, Cleveland, Ohio 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT Timothj' P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Ind. David V. Hayes, '21, Hartford, Conn. SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT Chester D. Fi-eeze, '10, Milwaukee; Wis. James E. Sanford, '15, Chicago, 111. 
DIRECTOR (4-Year Term) Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, New York City . Bernard J. Voll, '17, South Bend, Ind. 
The above slates are the results of several months deliberation by the Nominating Committees: Thoma s Curry, '14, chairman, Daniel Cough­lin, '22, and James Swift, '24; and Arthur Hughes, '11, chairman, John Cassidy, '17, and Daniel O'Neil, '25, as previously appointed by President Hayes. 
The slates represent such promi­nent alumni that the ALUMNUS is spared the necessity for biographical elaborations. Father Cavanaugh is the present incumbent of the bono-. rary presidency. Father Donahue is the widely known and loved Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Clarence Manion is better known to the constituency as "Pat." He is the present vice-president of 
the Association, the first to make a trip in the field in the interests of the Association. Harry "Red" Miller is the first of that illustrious line of Cleveland (nee Defiance) Millers. Harry is no amateur in alumni af­fairs, completing this year his active four-year term as national director of the -Association. Tim Galvin, Ham­mond attorney, has graced so many subsequent generations with his ora­tory that he is widely known to the great majority of alumni. Dave Hayes, who won several monograms, interrupted in acquiring a little Ger­man shrapnel, is now a business man in Hartford, Conn. Chester "Chet" Freeze is in the advertising business in Milwaukee, where he is a regular , in the N. D. Club and at present pi'O­moting the Rockne Memorial in that 
area. James E. "Jim" Sanford is also an advertising man, but with Chicago as his base. Jim seldom misses an event of importance at 
N. D. Hugh O'Donnell, the present president of the" N. D. Club of N. Y. is also a former president of the -As­sociation; Hugh is assistant busi­ness manager of the N. Y. Times. Bernard VoII, the other nominee for the directorate, is the present presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, and president of the Sibley Machine Co. of South Bend. 
The Class of 1932 will elect a di­rector for one year before their grad­uation. The treasurer's job is com­bined with the office of the secretary, the combined subject to appointment by the Board. 
Constitutional Revision Accepted by Majority 
Light Vote Shows Lack of Interest; Significant Changes Go Into Immediate ECFect With Adoption of New Clauses in Code; Alumni To Be Districted by Board; Treasury Moved to Alumni OflBce. 
By a vote of 389 to 9, the revised Constitution of the -Alumni Associa­tion was ushered into effect on Feb­ruary 15. -A committee consisting of Walter Clements, '14, and Paul 
Butler, '27, South Bend, Indiana, counted the ballots in the Alumni Office. 
Most significant in the new set-up is the provision for dividing the alum­ni into districts. The Board of Di­rectors is to effect this division at an early meeting. The result should be increased intensive development and contact among alumni. 
The treasury, which now is using only red ink, is combined with the ofiice of the Secretary, thus remox-ing from individual shoulders an onerous and unremunerated task. Details of the transfer will be covered gradually between now and Commencement, the end of the fiscal year. 
The revised Constitution and the effective By-Laws attached, now in effect, are reprinted herewith: 
CONSTITUTION OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTKE DAME 
ARTICLE I. Name 
* SECTION' 1. The name of this organization shall be the Alumni 
Association of the Universitu of Notre Dame. 
ARTICLE II. Objects 
SECTION 1. The object of this Asociation shall be to foster a spirit of loyalty and fraternity among the graduates and former students of Notre Dame: to establish more effective relations between the University and the Alumni Association. 
ARTICLE ni . Membership SECTION 1. The Association shall consist of active, honorary and associate members. SECTION 2. The active membership shall consist of the following: 
(a)
 Alumni of the University of Notre Dame. The term "alumni" shall embrace those holding the degns; given in course by the Uni­versity for bachelor, master, or doctor. 

(b)
 Former matriculates whose entering Class shall have been graduated and who, upon application to and approval by the Board of Directors shall be acceptable to membership. 

SECTION 3. The honorary membership shall consist of the following: 

(a)
 All who receive from the University of Notre Dame degrees Honoris Causa. 

(b)
 Those friends and benefactors of the University of Notre Dame whose services the Association may desire to recognize and who shall be nominated and elected by the Board of Directors. 


SECTION 4. Associate membership shall consist of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, not otherwise eligible to membership, who. upon election by the Board of Directors shall enjoy all the privileges of active membership. 
Provided, however, the qualifications for membership shall not apply to those who are members of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame at the time of the adoption of this Constitution. 
ARTICLE IV. Officers 
SECTION I. The affairs of this Association shall be managed, con­ducted and controlled by a Board of Directors consisting of a President, first Vice-President, second Vice-President, Secretary-Treasurer and six Directors. 
SECTICV 2. The retiring President of the Association shall become ex officio a Director for one year next succeeding the expiration of his term of office as President. All of the elected members of the Board of Directors as constituted under the Constitution of 1925 shall con­tinue in office as Directors until their respective terms of office e.'spire. At the annual election of the Association to be held in the Spring of 1932 and each succeeding year theieaftcr one Director shall be elected to hold office for four years until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. Each graduating Class of the University beginning with the Class of 1932 shall elect a member of the Class as Director of the Assnciation for a term of one year and until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. 
SECTION 3. No one shall be eligible to hold the office of Presracnt, first Vice-President and second Vice-President unless bo shall have received a degree given in course by the University of Notre Dame of bachelor, master or doctor. Any member of the Association in good standing is eligible for any office in the Assocaition except as herein­before provided. 
• SECTION 4. Any vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors shall be filled at the next annual election of the Association. SECTION 5. Annual elections shall be held in the Spring each year in such manner as the By-laws shall provide. 
SECTION 6. The Board of Directors shall meet annually immediately before the annual meeting of the Association or at any time at the call of the President or by a petition signed by any three members of the said Board. 
SECTION 7. The President and any two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, otherwise four members of the Board shall be necessao" for ft quorum. 
ARTICLE V. The Fiscal Year 
The official year of the Association which shall govern the terms of the officers and the fiscal affairs of the Association shall be from the date of the annual meeting to the date of the next annual meeting. 
ARTICLE VL By-Laws 
By-laws not inconsistent with this Constitution embodying additional provisions for the government of the Association and for the purpose of carrying out all provisions of this Constitution shall be adopted 
and may be amended from time to time by a vote of two-thirds of the members present or voting at any annual meeting of the Aasodatlfm or by special mailed ballot, provided further that notice shall be Ktven of the change or amendment in.the official publication of the Organiza­tion at least thirty days prior to said vote- Provided farther that the By-laws appended to this Constitution shall. go into effect contem> poraneously therewith and shall be and remain in full force and effect subject to amendment as hereinbefore provided. 
ARTICLE Vn . Amendments SECTION 1. Amendments to this Constitution may be proposed 
(a)
 By a petition signed by at least ten members and filed with the Secretary on or before April 30; or 

(b)
 By a resolution of the Board of Directors filed with the Secre>­tary on or before April 30; and shall thereupon be printed in the ALU^INUS, if and when published, before the annual meeting, and shall be submitted to the members upon, and as part of, the printed ballot be mailed to the members on or before May 20. The vote thereof shall be canvassed and crcrtified by the tellers as provided for the election of officers.­


SECTION 2. An affirmative vote for the addition of such an amend­ment by two-thirds of the total legal votes cast at such election shall render such amendment effective from the time of the announcement of such result, if not otherwise provided in such amendment. If it does not receive two-thirds vote, it shall stand rejected. 
BY-LAWS ARTICLE I. Duties and Powers of Officers SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all meetings of the Association and the Board, and to perform all the usual duties of that office. SECTION 2. The first Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President in case of the latter's absence or disability. SECTION 3. The second Vice-President shall perform the duties of the President and the first Vice-President in case of the absence or the disability of both and in addition shall have charge of, and preside at the annual meeting of, the Officers of the Districts. SECTION 4. It shall be the duty of the Secretary-Treasurer to keep an alphabetical list of all the alumni together with brief biographical notes pertaining to the same: to act as necrologist, rendering an annual report as such necrologist, as prescribed by the Board of Directors; to act as a general agent of the Association under the control of the Board of Directors and to this end he shall have the general welfare in charge: to aid in the formation of local alumni clubs: to act as editor of the official alumni magazine, the Notre Dame Alumnus; to collect membership dues: to keep the seal and accounts of the Associa­tion : to receive all money belonjring to the Association or funds held in trust by it: to inform each member of the Association concerning delinquencies in the payment of dues. He shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directore may from time to time prescribe and shall receive such compensation as the Board of Directors may de* termine. The S2cretary-Treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of these duties, in such amount as the Board of Directors shall determine and with such sureties as they may approve. He shall render a true and accurate statement of the funds of the Association at the annual meeting. His accounts shall be audited annually by an auditor appointed by the Board of Directors. SECTION 5. The Board of Directors shall have control and manage­ment of the affairs of the Association in conformity with this Con­stitution and the By-laws. 
SECTION 6. Term of office. Every officer of this Association whose tenure of office is not herein otherwise specifically fixed for a longer term shall hold his office from his election until the next annual meet­ing of this Association and until his successor is elected. 
ARTICLE IL Meetings Sc:CTiON I. The annual meeting of this Association shall be held at the University of Notre Dame, in the State of Indiana, upon a day and hour to be fixed by the Secretary of this Association with the approval of the President of the University of'Notre Dame, provided, however, that such day must be one of the days during which the annual Commencement exercises of the University of Notre Dame are in progress. 
SECTION 2. Special meetings of the Association may be held at any­time at the call of a majority of the Directors fixing the time and place of such a meeting. 
ARTICLE HL Election of Officers 
SECTION 1. At the annual meeting but not later than November 1 following the incoming President shall appoint two nominating com-' mittees of three members each who have not held an office for a year. 
Nominations for all officers except Secretary-Treasurer and the 
Director represcntine: the sraduatine Class shall be made by these 
Committees. The Secrctar^'-Treasurcr shall be elected by the Board 
of Directors. 
The names and addresses of the members of these committees shall be published in every edition of the Notre Dame Alumnus issued after NovoDiber 1 of that year and until January 20 following with a request for BUgfxstions from the membership at large. 
SEcnoN 2. These two committees shall confer separately, but each shall apprise the other upon its conclusions upon the nomination for President on cr before January" 20." The two committees are required to make different nominations for President, otherwise shall not be restricted agmnst duplication of nominations. On or before February 2B,both committees shall report their nominations to the President and to the Secretary; and from thence forward, the Secretary shall cause such nominations to be published in the Aluvinus continuously until the annual meeting without reference as to which committee made the nominations. 
SECTION 3. Any twenty-five members, not more than ten of whom reside in any one county may by petition addressed to the Secretary, make other nominations, providing this is done by filing same with the Secretary not later than Alarch 1. Such nominations shall also be pub­lished in the Alumnus after they are received, as in the preceding section required. 
SECTION 4. The names of all persons nominated shall be placed by 
the Secretary on a printed ballot, in alphabetical order, without dis­
tinction as to method of nomination, and one ballot, together with an 
envdope marked "Ballot" with lines for the signature and address of 
the voter, shall be mailed, on or before May 20 to each member 
entitled to vote. 
This ballot, when marked shall be sealed in such envelope marked "Ballot** upon which the voting member shall endorse his signature and last mail address, and mailed back to the Secrctao* of this Asso­ciation or to the Association itself, at Notre Dame, Indiana; or such ballot so enclosed in a sealed envelope, and duly endorsed, may be delivered in. person to the Sccretarj-. But no such ballot shall be received or counted unless the same is delivered, as above provided, by mail or in person, at or before the actual meeting, that is, the actual opening and convening of the annual meeting, and before the ballots are ddivered to the tellers as herein provided. The Secretary, or some representative for him. shall be in attendance at the annual meeting at least thirty minutes before the convening of the same in order to receive any ballots tendered to him. 
SECTION 5. The Secretary shall record, in alphabetical order, the names, with addresses, of all members whose ballot has been received; . and shall see that no member deposits with him more than one sealed ballot; and immediately upon the opening or convening of the annual meeting (at which time the polls close), he shall deliver all such ballot envelopes, unopened, together with the list of those who voted, to the tellers theretofore appointed by the President. 
SECTION 6. No ballot shall be received or counted unless it is en­closed in a sealed envelope, marked "Ballot", with the name and address of the voting member clearly endorsed thereon, and delivered to the Secretary before the polls close. 
SECTION 7. The President shall, either'at any time before or imme­diately upon the convening of the annual meeting, appoint three tellers, who shall open the ballots and canvass the vote, and certify the result thereof forthwith to the membership in annual meeting assembled; and the ballots and list shall thereupon be returned to the Secretary, who shall preserve them for one week, at which time he may destroy them unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Directors. In canvassing the vote, one teller shall open the envelope, and deliver the folded ballot therefrom to the second teller, and the envelope to the third teller," who shall destroy the envelope, and so on. \Vhen they are all opened, the votes shall be counted. 
SECTION 8. A plurality of the votes cast shall elect. 
ARTICLE IV. DISTRICT GO\'ERNORS 
SECTION 1. For the purpose of nxire efficient administration of the business and affairs of the Association, the Board of Directors shall divide the territory in which the members of the Association reside into districts. The President shall, from time to time, as directed by the Board of Directors promulgate a list of the districts together with their respective boundaries and no changes or additions shall be made in the districts or boundaries thereof except by a majority of the vote of the Board of Directors. 
At the election of the Asssclation to be held in the Spring of 1932 there shall be elected from each of the districts as provided a District Governor and a Lieutenant District Governor who shall hold office for one year. At the expiration of his term of office the Lieutenant Dis­trict Governor shall become District Governor and shall hold said office for one year. At every annual election after 1932, there shall be elected from each of the districts as afores^d a Lieutenant Governor who shall hold office for one year and on the expiration of his term of office shall ipso facto become Governor of said district for a term of one year. 
TH E ELECTION OP DISTRICT Go\'ERN0it AND LIEUTENANT 
DISTRICT GO\-ERNOR 
The District Governor and Lieutenant District Governor shall be nominated and elected in the same manner as provided for the Section of other officers of the Association except that the nominating com­mittees for said officers shall be composed of the members of said Association residing in the said district and shall be elected by mem­bers of the Association residing in the said district. In the event any district nominating committee fails or neglects to select a nominee for office of District Governor or Lieutenant District Governor within the time as provided by the By-laws of the Association, then the Board of Directors shall nominate from the membership of such district a member of the said district for the said office, or offices as the case may be. 
SECTION 2. DISTRICT Go\*ERNon*s DUTIES 
The District Governor shall, under the general super\-ision of the 
Board of Directors of the Association be charged with the duty of 
furthering the objects of the Association in the district from which 
he is elected; to supervise and organize new alumni dubs in his dis­
trict ; to promote effective cordial relations between the local alumni 
clubs in his district and between said local alumni clubs and the 
University. 
LIEUTENANT DISTRICT GO\-EKNOR'S DUTIES The Lieutenant District Governor shall perform the duties of the District Governor in case of the latter's absence or disability. (Continued on Page 51) SECTION 3. IIEETINCS 
The District Governor and lieutenant District Governor shall meet annually immediately before the annual meeting of the Association at the University, or any time at the call of the President or by a petition signed by any six of- said District Governors or by a petition signed by any three members of the Board of Directors. 
ARTICLE V. Dues 
SECTION l. Every active associate member (except he be a member of a religious order) shall pay annually in advance to the Secretary of this Association such dues as may be fixed by the Board of Directors. The Board shall also determine the portion thereof that shall be designated as the subscription price for the Notre Dame 
Alumnus, 
SECTION 2. The Board of Directors shall have the right at any time, by resolution, to take any reasonable and appropriate action as to members delinquent in their dues and as to the retention of their names on the subscription list of the Alumnus; but such action shall not take effect as to any member until he has had at least thirty days' notice thereof. 
ARTICLE VL Expenses 
SECTION 1. All authorized expenses and obligations incurred by the Association, its office, and its officers, shall be paid by the Treasurer from the funds of this Association. 
ARTICLE VIL Order of Business SECTION l. The order of business at any meeting of this Association may be fixed by By-laws or by Resolutions of the Board of Directors, except as herein otherwise provided or required. SECTION 2. The admission to membership of any new members at any annual meeting of this Association shall be deferred until after the election of officers is completed, and the result announced; and the new officers shall assume their respective offices from and at the time of the induction of the new members. 
SECTION 3. Ten votes shall constitute a quorum at any meeting. SECTION 4. Rules of Order. Roberts' Rules of Order shall be the parliamentary authority at all meetings of the Association. SECTION 5. Whatever publication or notice is called for in the Notre Dame Alumnus hereunder, like publication or notice may be effected, with like validity, by mailing such statements or notices, in printed form, to any and all members who would be entitled to receive the' 
Notre Dame Alumnus. 
ARTICLE Vin . Amendments SECTION 1. These By-laws, or any of them, may be amended, changed, added to, or repealed by a vote of two-thirds of those present and entitled to vote, at any meeting duly called, notified and held for that purpose. . JOHN COSTELLO, '12, Chairman, TIMOTHY GALVIN, '16 PAUL GASTNER. '23 
Q.. iiiiaiiiiiiiiDDiiiii 
LiNIVEI2SAL NCTI^E DAME NIStiT« AI^PIL IS 
N otre Dame Clubs and gi-oups not yet organized need no more notice! I n more than 100 world centers, Notre Dame men will gather. V ery simple observances will serve the purposes of the Night. E xpense of entertainment is entirely optional with the groups. R enewing old friendships with each other and the campus is first. Study of the new Notre Dame, her aims, policies and needs, is asked. A lumni everywhere, in universal observance, is the objective. L oyalty does not depend upon these obsei-vances, but is ciystallized by them. 
N.otre Dame is great as never before. 0 Ider men will marvel at a description of the present Univei"sity. T he Alumni Office will furnish any informati on possible. R ecent alumni can speak interestingly of the new Notre Dame. E very Club can find some good in meeting. 
D on't hesitate to ask faculty members to come for the occasion. A visitor from the campus can freshen your Club interest greatly. M ake the occasion one of constructive work as well as enjoyment. E njoyment will be found in the serious as we 11 as the entertaining. 
N otre Dame occupies a pre-eminent position among Catholic colleges. 1 n our public relations, alumni have been most pleasantly instrumental. G ood can be done, of inestimable value, by alumni groups, organized. Have.a purpose and a program. Make this Night symbolic of it. T ake special pains to enlist your membership. Your strength is in your men. 
A pril 18 is the NIGHT. Appoint your Committee now. AiTange early. P repare so that it will be possible for eveiyone to participate. R emember the depression has hit hard, especially the young men. 11 is not the menu that measures the success. It is the men. Let the particular circumstances about you dictate your program. 
g The third Monday in April. Make it a Gol d and Blue Day on your calendar. 
ftl,,,,,,,, niitllllllllllll Illllllllllllll I Mil I •" • • "•'» • ••" • '"" '"• * IIUIMIIIiHltilMMl«ll«MtttMIWitmg 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii •iiQ 
ATHLETICS: 
Q" 
There was a football dinner at Notre Dame this month and a cap­tain for 1932 was elected. With all due over-emphasis, the ALUMNUS hastens to record these facts before glorifying in the successes of the basketball and track teams, who are 
DR. GEORGE KEOGAN The Victory Grin—Fourteen Straight 
carrying on for Rockne in a way that leaves nothing to be asked. 
Our justification is that eating is never out of season and that, before the next issue reaches you, spring practice will be under way and foot­ball will again be in season. Then, too. Jack Chevigny has resigned as backfield coach and three of the four 1931 ail-Americans have signed con­tracts to assist Head Coach Hunk Anderson next fall amid a ilurry of publicity. 
Paul Host, a slim looking left end from LaCrosse, Wis., is the man named to assume Tommy Yarr's burden of captaincy, if the ecstacy of such an appointment can be called a burden. The election was unusual 
"BY JOSEPH PBTRITZ, '32" 
in that Paul defeated Ed Kosky, the other nominee, also a left end. Paul and Ed have been fighting it out for two years now and an impartial ob­sen-er would probably call Koskj' the first string man. 
Those who know Paul Host do not wonder; and this is no reflection on the abilities, personality, or good fel­lowship of Ed Kosky. Paul is a great athlete and more. He is an honor student, a staff writer for the Scholastic who writes good copy, likes to write, and gets his assign­ments in on time. He has that pecu­liar ability to mingle with all types and classes that makes his election popular, the courage that demands respect, and accomplishments that warrant his election. 
The dinner disclosed that Marchy Schwartz, a fairly good left halfback, is an orator on a level with coaches who, in the words of Warren Brown, "have been out of school five years.'" He will replace Chevigny in coaching the backs. Captain . Tommy Yarr, who signed a life contract to stay home nights the same week he penned his name to the document making him a coach, w^ill handle the centers. Nordy Hoffmann, the third of the ail-Americans, will be back to work with other linemen. Ike Voedisch will again turn out great ends; they ex­pect his products to be great now. The team's fourth ail-American, by the w^ay, is Joe Kurth, who will be back to do a bit of right-tackling. 
Coach Anderson has not set a date for the opening of spring practice, but the squad of 300 or as many moie as feel the urge, will probably be go­ing through their paces by the mid­dle of March. And now, o-IvAY, Walter Winchell. You said last De­cember that Notre Dame would have a basketball team that would make people wonder whether football was still the major sport at the Univer­sity. 
The cage team hasn't gone that 
"..a 
far, but it has done wonders this year. As we went to press, the rec­ord stood 15 victories to two defeats. The team had not lost a game since the middle of December. The consec­utive victories are now 14, with two 
PAUL HOST, LEFT END 
Captain-elect of the '33 Football Team 
games left to play. Coach George Keogan has taken the squad through the toughest opposition available and that despite illness ineligibilities, and everything else. 
The last ALUMNUS brought you word of the first victory over North­western after the team had broken even in its first four games. New Year's eve, the boys rubbed it into the Wildcats with another victory at Evanston, 22 to 21. Since then, they have toppled St. Thomas of St. Paul, Michigan State, Marquette, Pennsyl­vania,- Pittsburgh twice, Iowa, Syra­cuse, Western Reserve, and Butler. 
The tivo losses were to Indiana and Purdue. For the Indiana game, Johnny Baldwin was missing from the lineup with a severe cold and Tommy Bums went out in the first half on personal fouls, depriving the team of its two regular guards. Bald­win could play only half of the Pur­due game. Finally, both games were 
before Ed Krause, who now leads the team in scoring, had adjusted himself to rubber soles after three months on cleats and become a member of the varsity. 
The second game with Northwest-em was a repetition of the first, but not a repetition that made the action dull. The ball travelled up and down the iloor at a furious pace, the score changed hands frequently, and the game was climaxed when Notre Dame took its victory margin and then pre­vented the Wildcats from scoring two minutes that seemed eons. Ed Krause made his first starting ap­pearance of the season, obliging with 12 points. 
St. Thomas, making a trip through the middle west, was fairly easy after the regulars had made up a deficit left them by the shock troops and taken the lead. This game wit­nessed the innovation and death knell of the shock troop idea in bas­ketball at Notre Dame. The score was 34 to 19. 
Michigan State at East Lansing provided Coach Keogan with new tremblings. But baskets in the clos­ing minutes from long range gave Notre Dame a 28 to 25 decision. At this writing. State had lost only two other games in 15 starts. This was the only game in which Notre Dame resorted to long shots for victorj'. The fast Irish passing attack has been able to go in under the net in every game since then. 
When Ed ICrause took care of Whitey Budrunas, Marquette's hopes went up the well-known flue. Not only did Krause stop the Hilltoppers center and star, but he dropped in 17 points himself with no apparent effort. The score was 43 to 31 but a closer game is expected at Mil­waukee March 4. 
Iowa, the first conference team to upset Northwestern, was an un­known quantity when it played here. Coach RoUie Williams had the use of men who were not eligible before the semester and the Hawkeye attack was speeded up. Notre Dame reached its peak in floor play in this game, however, and took a 33 to 15 deci­sion. Krause and DeCook provided the fanciest passing of the season in this game. 
Pittsburgh, weaker than usual, lost to the Irish on the local court and then dropped another game at Pitts­burgh two weeks later. Dr. H. C. Carlson, Pitt coach, drills the fact in­to his men that they should not shoot until they are within close range, the Notre Dame defense was impreg­nable, so the games were called slow when Pitt had continually to bring the ball back to the center of the floor to start new drives at the net. 
Syracuse came west with a team that had lost only three previous games while winning a dozen; it was hailed as nearly the equal of the great Orange Eastern championship team of 1930-31. The game was an­other close one three-quarters of the way, when Captain Norb Crowe started to hit the net. Notre Dame won going away, 33 to 18, largely be­cause of Crowe's four baskets at op­portune moments. 
Western Resen-e also loomed large on the Notre Dame schedule. The Cleveland team has the reputation this year of being an in-and-outer, impossible to defeat when hitting on all five. The Western Reserve coach, however, made the mistake of put­ting his best scoring star on Ed Krause. Krause kept him so busy on defense that he forgot about of­fensive efforts and Notre Dame chalked up another, 32 to 25. 
You can thank Joe Voegele, an un­known sophomore, for the twelfth straight victory. It was he who dropped six baskets and three free throws for 15 points and a 37 to 35 decision over a Butler team that led Notre Dame by nine points with five minutes of play remaining. Butler was defeated in only two other games this season. 
Games remain with Michigan State here. Army here, Marquette at Mil­waukee, and Butler here. 
In another week we could tell you more of the Notre Dame track team, for there is a meet scheduled with Harry Gill's strong Illini. But Coach John Nicholson has brought his men 
1931-32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Dec. 4—Kalamazoo 7, N. D. 37. Doc. S—Adrian 13. N. D." 37. Dec. 12—Indiana 23, N. D. IS. Dec. 15—Purdue 32. N. D. 24. Dec. 21—Northwestern 25. N. D. 32. Dec. 31—Northwestern 21, N. D. 22. Jan. 5—St. Thomas 19. N. D. 34 J.-in. 9—MichiRan State 25, N. D. 28. Jan. 12—Marquette 31. N. D. 43. Jan. 16—Pennsylvania 12. N. D. 25. Jan. 23—PitlshurRh 25, N. D. 32. Feb. 1—Iowa IS. N. D. 33. Feb. 6—Pittsbureh 19, N. D. 26. Feb. 10—Syracuse IS. N. D. 26. Fob. 13—Western Reserve 25, N. D. 32. Feb. 19—Butler 32, N. D. 37. Feb. 23—MichiKan State 20, N. D. 28. Feb. 27—Array 23, N. D. 41. Mar. 4—^Marquette at Milwaukee. Mar. 11—Butler here. 
through dual meets with Iowa and Butler victorious and the dope gives the Irish a good chance against the next opponent on the card. 
The squad is strong in the running events and will score heavily here in all meets. But the field events are spotty with only two sure- point-get­ters on hand. Bob Darling usually clears six feet or better in the high jump and that height is good for points in almost any dual meet. Finkel, a sophomore, has helped out the shot put department with heaves of 45 feet 3 inches, and 42 feet, 5 inches. He should be doing great things before his senior year. 
Alex Wilson, the trim little Cana­dian middle distance star, opened the season with his second consecutive victory in the Millrose A. C. 600­yard run at New York. Winning the race for the second time gave him permanent possession of the John Wanamaker trophy. The mile relay team took third behind Penn and Co­lumbia in this meet. Wilson later won the National A. A. U. Champion­ship in the "600" at New York. 
Captain Bill McCormick, who has twice tied the world's record in the 60-yard dash, led the team. Char­ley Kelley, Rudy Obergfell, Fred MacBeth, Brant Little, Regis Kuhn, and John Scanlon are with Wilson in the middle distances, giving Notre Dame real power in the furlong and half-mile. 
Eddie Iving, sophomore star, is showing great promise in the mile, although he has not been pressed as yet. Gene Howery, cross-country captain and senior, will win plenty of points in the two-mile. The broad jump, hurdles, and pole vault pro­vide the glaring weaknesses in the Irish team, but Coach Nicholson lives in hope of discoveries. DuPuy, a sophomore whom "Nick" taught to hurdle last year, is showing increas­ing ability and may make people for­get Johnny O'Brien before he is through. 
It is a bit early for predictions on baseball, golf and tennis, but the next issue should have something on these sports besides the fact that the golf course has been undergoing a manicure during the winter and will present a thousand new trees and what looks like 2000 new traps to returning alumni in June. 
Billy Sullivan, '31, third baseman for the Chicago White Sox and a Law student at the University, has been studying movies of his batting form and will be in the .300 dass this season. You may lay to that, but Coach Keogan hasn't started to worry about his team yet. 
lllllltllltlllUIIIMIIIlllllllllllPtMIIMllttlllllllUMI llllllillllltllltllMlinilllDlllllllltQ 
B' 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Illtllllllllll Illlllllll lit (lllllllltllUIIIUIIIMIItlllltllltlllllllllllttlllllllllllllllllllllll mpl 
Q. 
ARKANSAS 
We are glad to hear from Rev. George F. X. Strassner from time to time. The President of the Arkansas alumni group conveyed the informa­tion that Warren Baldwin, a member of the Class of '13, and a resident of Little Rock, was recently re-elected secretary-manager of the Arkansas Real Estate Association. 
BUFFALO 
The Alumni Secretary was in Buf­falo on February 3 and 4 for an exec­utive committee of the American Alumni Council. Despite the depres­sion, an annual party the following week, and a recent meeting, not to mention the fine turnout for Pat Manion in the Fall, the Club enter­tained the roving delegate at a dinner at the Statler Hotel. Marty Ryan, president of the Club,- and Paul Hoef­fler, a Classmate, had volunteered an afternoon and transportation in the afternoon so that the glories of Niag­ara Falls might not be missed. Joe Shea, convention magnet for the Statler, did everji;hing to make the stay there pleasant. The dinner and the subsequent infoi-mal session were productive of the facts and the phi­losophy that flow so freely under sim­ilar circumstances. While the Secre­tary hesitates to inflict the burden of entertainment on the Clubs, these op­portunities of meeting a group of alumni when on a trip of this kind are too rare to be overlooked. On the return trip, the Chicago Club's luncheon was included in the itiner­ary while the Notre Dame represen­tative was attending the District meeting of the A. A. C. at the U. of Chicago. An extra lunch at Lester Livingston's Plaisance Hotel was an added feature of the Chicago stop. 
CINCINNATI The following letter from "Hogan" Morrissey is one that cools the Edi­tor's fevered brow. It was written in answer to the form letter sent out by the Alumni Office to the Classes and Clubs. Dear Jim: Your very fine letter reached me yesterday, and while you start off' by saying you are sorry you could not write it personally, in my mind, and I believe in every other loyal Notre Dame Alumnus' mind, it does carry a v^ry important personal message. I agree with you, collection of alumni dues is not a job for the clubs and classes as a whole; however, they 
can do a great amount of good mis­sionary work, for instance, at a meet­ing of a club or class group, just a casual remark asking if all had paid their alumni dues would help tremen­dously. A suggestion by word of mouth, I believe, ofttimes supplies the proper impetus for the individual to come across. Notre Dame Clubs that send out cards or letters calling the clubs together, could also carry a little memo asking the members to be sure to take care of their alumni dues. 
There may be some excuse for a failing off on the endowment gift, but there can not be sufficient good rea­sons for a failure to take care of alumni obligations. We are in a de­pression, but heavens knows most of us were in a four year depression fi­nancially during the four years we spent at Notre Dame. She, in nam, sent us forth equipped to relieve that condition. Five dollars a year cer­tainly is a small interest charge. Notre Dame without an Alumni As­sociation would be like a dish of Italian spaghetti without the garlic. We sure love to tell the world world that we are Notre Dame men, but you can't save the Alumni Association on word alone, can you, Jim? 
We do not use the Rockne Memori­al as an excuse to pass up associa­tion dues. Notre Dame Alumni have to contribute to the Memorial in or­der to perpetuate the memory of one of her greatest men; however, we must not create a memorial for the Association—^it has to live and it will only live by the payment of dues. 
As Secretary of the Cincinnati-Notre Dame Club, I will guarantee to at least get the message before every Alumnus in Cincinnati, with the hope that the coming month will see a great increase in the payment of Association dues, and with kind­est personal regards, believe me to be, 
Sincerely yours, 
W. D. Hogan Morrissey. 
CLE\TSLAND Between campaign speeches for Ray T. Miller, newly elected mayor of the city of Cleveland, February 16, the Club had time to reserve a special section (through the courtesy of the Athletic Committee of Western Reserve Universit}') when the Notre Dame basketball team met the team of Western Reserve on Saturday, February 13. The Club is also making prepara­tions for a Smoker for the benefit of 
the Rockne Memorial Fund. Plans have been made for the appearance of Joe Savoldi in a wrestling match and other attractions which will prob­ably attract a large crowd. , 
A Committee to assist Notre Dame in contacting prospective students has been appointed. Harry Miller was appointed Chairman. Names sug­gested for further members of the Committee are as follows: Frank J. Butler, Sr., Frank X. Cull, Judge Jo­seph Smith, Eugene Kane, George G. Kerver and John P. Butler. 
The weekly luncheons are still be­ing served in "The Subway," 1792 E. 9th St., George Kerver writes that Father "Mike" Moriarty, Wooster, has promised that he will stop in the "Subway" very shortly and have lunch with the gang. 
DETROIT My dear Jim: Just a few lines of gossip to let you know that I am still in the ring before you start writing me in care of the "dead letter office." Yes, there has been a depression even in Notre Dame news matter, but that's not what I started to write about. You probably know more about that than I do, yes much more, judging from your letters. Well sir, we had the annual meet­ing of the Notre Dame Club of De­troit Febraury 1, elected some offi­cers for the coming year, and ex­changed a few stories and bits of gossip. The new officers are: John E. Moore—President; John T. Higgins, '27, Vice-President; Paul J. Dooley, '25, Secretary; Edmund A. Polhaus, '25, Treasurer; J. Bell Moran, '07, Member of the Board of Governors (five year term). Activities were discussed in a gen­eral way, but another meeting is planned to get into specific details along this line. We'll be doing some­thing for Universal Notre Dame Night without a doubt, but just what has not yet been decided. Charley DuBarry, who studied ar­chitecture at school, is now with the Graham-Paige Motor Car Co., where Ed. Polhaus still plays the role of shadow to Robert Graham. Joe Simonin reports that he sees the N. D. boys of the Detroit Edison once in a while and that they're all getting along. That company has a goodly share of Notre Damers, Jim O'Brien, Jimmy Smith, Cari ("Doc") Springer, Vince Stace, and several others. Al Davis is still searching around for the General Motors Research De­
jFe6.-iV/ar., 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
partment. Don O'Keefe and Bill Mc-CuUough are still holding forth in the Chevrolet Division, and Herm Centlivre and Fred Link continue to carry the "Blue and Gold" over at the big advertising agency, Campbell-Ewald. Had lunch with Herm the other day. When I walked in, he was in the act of ordering a scale to measure the progress of his eight and a half pound boy that arrived the week previous. 
Mike Halligan is getting to look 
like the proverbial butcher-boy, a 
change of appearance that should be 
helpful in his job of selling meat for 
the local branch of Armour & Co. 
Clark Mahoney and young Soren­
son, son of the production manager 
at Ford's, are getting along great 
with their new venture, the Allied 
Aluminum Die Casting Co. Clark 
seems to be holding his weight de­
spite the new routine of being to 
%vork at 0:45 a. m. every day. 
Slaggert and Higgins are still practicing the law, and quite busily so, with Wurzer and Wurzer. Char­ley Molz and Seward Bower are still carrying the colors with the Detroit News, while Ray Girardin still plays the role of "headline hunter" with the Detroit Times. Ray Hunt is here with the Daily Mirror, a tabloid paper owned by the Chicago Tribune outfit. Charley Donahue pays De­troit a visit once in a while in the interest of the tab. Urb Hubert has the toughest newspaper job of the lot, assistant to the circulation manager of the Times. If you want to see him you've just got to stand around on a comer where he might be passing and flag him down. 
The Notre Dame Kellys get lots of ink these days. Harry F. Kelly seems to be prosecuting some tough bird in bold faced type about every other day. The bad boys don't care for Harry. Ray Kelly is up-an'-comin' in more ways than one. On June 23 he announced the arrival of Jerrj-Kelly, number 5. A week or so later 'he was elected to the National Exec­utive Committee of the American Legion. Besides that he seems to be handling his big job with the Detroit Street Railways without too much squawking from the citizenry or the press. And even with all this suc­cess he's still a good Catholic. Yes­siree, I saw him and his wife eating fish at Joe Muer's Seafood shop Fri­day night just like us common people. 
I met Cy Degree on the street not 
long ago. He tells me he's located 
over in Cleveland now. His brother, 
Ed, is practicing the law with head­
quarters in the Penobscot Building 
here. 
Joe Norton ('24.. and Ed Sawkins, 
'98 OT thereabouts) still hold sway 
checking up on delinquent minors, 
while George Reardon, who used to pull the bun car in the mornings, continues as a judge in the Juvenile Court. 
Morry Boland left the Hudson-Essex Distributor and Gil Schaeffer and George Sheehe to start in with Chevrolet and he tells me he's really selling quite a few of them. Good for him, says me. 
Called up Bud Boeringer the other day. Says he's playing handball every day and feels ready to take me on any time. Dr. Han-ey Brown, who helps out with the football coaching out at the U. of D. in his spare time, stepped out of the ranks of us bachelors not long ago and married himself a wife. Just snaps his fingers at the depression—that's the kind of a fellow he is. 
Well Jim, that's about all I can think of just now. Regards, Paul. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Capital City breaks into the limelight with the publishing of The Notre Dame Line. Vol. 1, No. 1, January 20, was received in the Alum­ni Office and thoroughly read and di­gested. A. leading article. Knights of Our Lady, by that veteran newspaper man, Paul Martin, is followed by some spicy gossip concerning the "gang" in Indianapolis. Congratula­tions and good luck in the new venture! 
MILWAUKEE Harry Kirk, C. E. '13, of Washing­ton, D. C, had business in Milwaukee Jan. 6 to the 22nd. He renewed old friendship with Bill Redden, John 
Dundon, Freeman Fitzgerald, Frank Madden, Jim Mathews and Al Zweck. The Milwaukee Club sponsored a bridge party at the new home of Dr. and Mrs. John R. Dundon on January 
29. Arrangements were made for thirty tables. The proceeds were do­nated to the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
Dear Jim: The Milwaukee Club fell in with Presiden t Hoover's anti-hoarding campaign by holding a bridge party which was a success insofar as mo­mentarily, at least, causing legal ten­der to circulate and thus promoting the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
Doctor and Mrs. Dundon were the kind hosts and the success of the af­fair was due almost entirely to their careful planning and work. The Dun­don's have the Club's sincere appde­ciation for the splendid expression of spirit and for the evening which will be a most pleasant memory to every one of the members who attended. 
The basketball team plays Mar­quette University here March sixth. We are planning a dinner in honor of Coach Keogan to be held shortly 
before the game. We look forward to some good basketball with the boys coming through on top. If we can ever get Jean LaBoule to attend one of the dinners we hope to have a real travel program. Jean returned a short time ago from Europe etc. and we would like to hear about some of the details. And then there is Paul Brust who has done some globe­trotting we still want to hear about. 
Universal Notre Dame Night prom­ises to be a big evening. We are al­ways sure of a big turn-out for that event. 
Sincerely, Ang Galdabini. 
MUSKEGON 
The Secretary is optimistic enough to list the Club of Muskegon, which has been (we hope) in the making. A letter from Dick Giroux, '31, started the well-know ball rolling and we trust that by this date the Notre Dame men in and around Muskegon, Michigan are forming a new unit to be included in these pages. It is vital for Notre Dame alumni to be organ­ized to continue the onward march of the Greater Notre Dame. • 
NEW YORK The Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame is dedicating its Easter dance to the alumni, according to word re­ceived from Eddie Fallon of the New York Club and John F. Werner, Notre Dame, General Chairman of the affair. The dance will be held on the evening of March 28, which is Easter Monday, and Notre Dame alumni and guests will dance in the Hotel New Yorker to the strains of Vincent Lopez and his original or­chestra from 9 P. M. to 2 A. M. Ed Kosky, President of the Met Club on the Campus, is making ar­rangements whereby students from the entire metropolitan area can se­cure special train rates and accom­modations to enable them to be pre-s­ent at the dance. 
ST. LOUIS 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis sponsored a dance in the evening of December 19, the m'ght before the charity football game in St. Louis in which a number of former Notx-e Dame football stars participated. 
TOLEDO 
A short note from Ben Kesting, as­sures us that Toledo is still on the map. 
Bill aarfc, '27, a native of Toledo, dropped in the Alumni office recently. Bill was on his way to Chicago on business. Mrs. Clark and daughter remained in South Bend with lbs. Clark's parents for a visit. Bill re­ported conditions in Toledo about the same as every place else, with pros­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Feb.-Mar., 1932 
perity just around the comer, we hope! 
UTAH 
From an alumnus in Utah we have 
received the following splendid letter 
concerning the personnel of the Club. 
Like the other Clubs in the far West, 
Utah alumni suifer from lack of con­
tact with Notre Dame. To us, with­
in the shadow of the Dome, it is diffi­
cult to realize the difficulties expe­
rienced by these men in trying to 
keep the Club from expiring com­
pletely. We take pleasure, there­
fore, in introducing to the readers of 
the -A.LUMNUS the following mem­
bers of the Notre Dame Club of Utah 
who have given wholeheartedly of 
time and money to keep Notre Dame 
before the eyes of the nation. We 
have added what information we have 
in our files to that contributed by 
the members of the Club and trust 
that the resume is fairly complete 
First of all, there is the President 
of the Club, Raymond Brady. Ray 
was graduated in 1924 and has been 
a tireless worker for the interests of 
Notre Dame ever since. He is prac­
ticing law under the firm name of 
Marks, Brady and Acheson and is 
located at 206 Keams Bldg., Salt 
Lake City. 
The Secretary, H. E. Weiss, Keams 
Bldg., Salt Lake City, is a special 
representative of the Allis-Chalmers 
Company and has been a tower of 
strength to the organization. 
The Chaplain, Father Maguire, has charge of two parishes, one St. Vin­cent de Paul's Church in Murray, Utah, a city of about 5,000 people, seven miles south of Salt Lake, and also pastor of St. Theresa's Church-in Slidvale, Utah, about twelve miles from Salt Lake. Father Maguire travels between the two cities cov­ering as much territory as the city of Chicago, but having very small congregation. Due to the scarcity of priests it is necessary to inflict this double burden on him, and he is recognized as one of the foremost priests in the community. 
Besides the three elective offices, the president is authorized to appoint a board of governors of five to act as an executive committee in matters connected OTth the club, and this board has accomplished a great deal of good. 
Leading the board of governors is Roger I. McDonough, who is the youngest judge of the Third Judicial District of the State. Judge Mc­Donough has made for himself an enviable reputation on the bench, and those who have watched his work in court predict that some day he will undoubtedly sit upon the Supreme Court bench. 
Robert Lynch, who was the first secretary of the organization, was formerly engaged in the ice business, but is now in the brokerage business 
with his father and brother, with of­
fices in the Keams Bldg.,- Salt Lake 
City. 
Charles P. Kahler, who is the old­
est graduate in the matter of Class, 
although he has been promoted and 
removed to Omaha, Nebraska, where 
he enjoys a responsible position with 
the Union Pacific, still retains his 
membership in the Utah club. 
Samuel Powell, Eccles Bldg., Og­den, is a former prosecuting attor­ney of that city and is now one of the seven bar commissioners of the State of Utah, one of the most re­sponsible and important positions connected with the legal profession. Sam enjoys a wide practice in Ogden and is one of the mainstays in the local Club, never missing a meeting, rain, shine or snow, and coming down from Ogden ever}- time some matter of importance is brought up. 
Victor Perr\% Hepler, Utah, who was a student at Notre Dame in 1927­
•28 lives about 125 miles south of Salt Lake. Last summer Victor was a member of the Hepler City base­ball team and lead the Utah Inde­pendent League in batting and also maintained a high fielding average. 
Some of the other prominent mem­bers are Major Francis J. Tomey who is a product of old St. Edward's and who is now a retired major in the United States army has charge of the Salt Lake recruiting office and has developed the station into one of the finest in the whole army sen-­ice. 
Cy Harbeke, 64 F. Street, Salt Lake City, former Notre Dame base­ball player, has also been wielding the big stick in Salt Lake for a num­ber of years and is also to be seen wherever the Notre Dame bunch gets together. 
Frank Smyth, 625 25th St., Ogden, was at Notre Dame in the early days. He has been in the hotel and real estate business in Ogden for several years. It was quite by accident that he was found to be an old Notre Dame man, and since he joined the Club he has been for Notre Dame one hundred per cent. 
The Club has two honorary mem­bers on the roster. These men were elected by a unanimous vote of the organization two years ago. One is Mr. Otto Enking, who is the head of the telegraph department of the Union Pacific Railroad in Salt Lake. He is the father of Clement Enking, '29, who is now practicing law in Sierra Madre, Calif. Mr. Enking is one of the best billiard players in the intermountain country, and when­ever the boys meet he takes a few^ of the younger ones and shows them a few tricks of the game, so we are told. 
The other elected honorary mem­
ber is Mr. John M. Brady, father of 
Ray Brady', who is superintendent of 
the city shops in Salt Lake. Mr. 
Brady, and Mr. Enking, have never 
missed a meeting since elected to 
membership, a record which even the 
regular members cannot duplicate. 
George Falk, 1211 Third Avenue, 
Salt Lake City, an old student of 
Notre Dame, is in the advertising 
business and is one of the club's pep­
piest members. 
Ed. J. O'Donnell, a student of 1924 
and 1925, is with his brother in the 
undertaking business in Salt Lake. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA • 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, Pittsburgh, 
Pa., has been named Chairman of a 
Committee appointed by James S. 
Devlin, Pittsburgh, President of the 
Notre Dame Club of Western Penn­
sylvania, to meet with candidates 
who are seeking admission to Notre 
Dame. Those who are serving on the 
Committee are: Joseph Bach, Edward 
Byrne, John Sheaty, Leo Vogel, John 
Reardon and James Devlin. 
The Western Pennsylvania alumni 
have been concerning themselves dur­
ing the past months to the interests of 
the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
Brothers oF Holy Cross 
Brother Lawrence, C.S.C, known to many generations of Carrollites as a prefect in their hall, died at the Com­munity House, Notre Dame, January 15, after a brief illness.; Bom in Canada, Theordore McClymont, he was received into the Congregation of Holy Cross, December S, 1873— nearly si.xty years ago. 
Brother Ernest, C.S.C, of Cathe­dral High School, Indianapolis, has wTitten "Our Brothers," a pioneer volume in its field. It contains brief histories and other information about the sixty-four Brotherhoods engaged in teaching and other activities in the United States. The book is published by Scott, Foresman and Company. 
Brother Norbert, C.S.C, instructor in mathematics, at St. Edward's Uni­versity, Austin, Texas, is conducting a column dealing with problems in mathematics and their solution, in the Catholic School Journal, a widely-circulated monthly, published in Mil­waukee. 
"Libraries? No. Librarians!" is the title of an article which Brother Ernest, C.S.C, librarian of Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, contributes to the current issue of the Catholic Library World, the official organ of the Catholic Library Association. 
^THE ALUMNI^ 
"Albert" the old workman, beloved by the students of the past twenty-five years, passed away January 2. He was buried January 4. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Presi­dent of the University, sang his re­quiem mass in Sacred Heart Church. Burial was in Cedar Grove cemeterj-. 
1864 
'64—JOSEPH DIETRICH, pioneer settler in North Dakota, died recently in Bismarck following a heart attack. Mr. Dietrich has been a resident of the North Dakota capital for CI years. He is survived by his widow and two daughters, Mrs. P. E. Byrne, Bismarck, and Miss Mabel Dietrich, Los Angeles, Calif. 
1880 
'SO—PHILIP H. VOGEL , of Colum­bus, Ohio, died February 23, in Co­lumbus, according to word received by the Alumni Office recently. No de­tails have been obtained. Mr. Vogol was a student at the Universitj' from 1S77 to 1879. 
1886 
'S6—Dr. HENRY B. LUHN, widely known surgeon, died at Moscow, Ida­ho, February 10, while visiting in the home of his daughter. Death was caused by influenza. He was 64 years old. 
Dr. Luhn entered Notre Dame in 1883 when only 16 and graduated three years later. He has the distinc­tion of being captain of Notre Dame's first football team. Dr. Luhn com­pleted his medical work at the Univer­sitv of Pennsylvania, graduating in 1890. 
He is survived by two daughters, Mrs. John W. Sheehy and Mrs. C. L. Lavigne, one brother, LT. COL. W. L. LUHN, '87, Portland, Ore. His wife died as the result of an automobile accident on December 31, 1931. At the time of his death Doctor Luhn was a resident of Spokane, Washing­ton. 
1898 
'98 —Rev. THOMAS HENNESSY, C.S.C, Louisville, Ky., died January 22, following a several week's illness with a throat ailment, complicated by erysipelas. 
Father Hennessy was bom in 1873 at Kilmallok, County Limerick, Ire­land, and after studying in France and Rome, came to the United States when a young man. In 1927 he went to Louisville as pastor of St. Mary Magdalene Church, where he served two years; was for a time assistant at St. Francis of .Assisi Church, and within the past year acted as chap­lain for St. Helena's School, Louis­ville. 
Father Hennessy is survived bv a brother. Rev. JOHN HENNESSY, C.S.C, '02, Bengal, India, and three 
sisters,  all  members  of  the  Hol>  
Cross.  
1894  

'94—An editorial in the January 20, 1931 issue of the New York Times tells of the success in Northwestern farming achieved by Mr. FREDER­ICK E. MURPHY, publisher of the Minneapolis Tribune. 
Eleven years ago, during a severe agricultural crisis, Mr. Murphy, no believer in Government aid, said: "Let us help ourselves." The Agri­cultural Credit Corporation of Min­neapolis was organized to help the grain-grower not in good circum­stances to buy dairy cattle and sheep. 
Under the new system agricultural income jumped enormously, almost $100,000,000 in a year. During the last two years, when farm and com­modity prices again slumped the re­.=ults are still satisfying in the North­west. Mr. Murphy says: 
"Farmers of the United States as a whole had an income of 1.03 per cent less than in 1911. 
"The income of Minnesota farmer^ in 1931 exceeded their income for 1911 by 61 per cent. 
1897 
'97—Rev. JOHN A. MACNAMARA, Secretary of the Class of '97, is again in Mount Clemens, Michigan. Father Mac is enjoying the benefits of St. Joseph's Sanitarium, conducted by the Sisters of Charity. According to a recent letter to the Alumni Of­fice, Father MacNamara is planning on spending Commencement at Notre Dame. All mail should be addressed to him, c-o St. Joseph's Sanitarium. Mount Clemens, Mich. 
'97—GRANVILLE TINNEN, a stu­dent at Notre Dame in '93-4 is living in Jay Em, Wyoming. A letter to the Football Review was referred to the Alumni Office, the first communi­cation from Mr. Tinnen in several 
1903 '03—JOHN W. DUBBS, Mendota Illinois attorney, recently presented the University Law School with a collection of law books. Mr. Dubbo has also presented the School with a number of Volumes of American Bar Journals. 
James Dubbs is following- in his father's footsteps in the practice of law. He is a junior in the University. 
'03—MARION J. PARICER dropped in the Alumni Office last month. Mr. Parker is in the painting and con­tracting business in Detroit. His ad­dress is: 1523 E. Congress, Detroit, Mich. 
1912 '12-^OHN W. COSTELLO, assist­ant secretary of the Yellow Cab Com­pany, Chicago, and a member of the law firm of Samuels, Costello & Greenberg, resigned from both organ­izations January 30 and on February 1 began a permanent association with Barrett, Barrett & Wermuth, attor­neys, Chicago. John was with the Yellow Cab Company for 18 years as a member of its legal staff, and three years ago was elected assistant sec­retary. 
1915 '15—A tragic accident December 29, 1931, caused the instant death of John Mathews, one and on-half year old son of Mr. and Mrs. JAMES MATHEWS, 4305 N. Humbodlt Ave­nue, Milwaukee, Wis. The child was thrown through the open window of an automobile in which he rode on his mother's lap, when the car overturned. The other occupants of the car werr: slightly injured. 
•15—ALBERT A. KUHLE, who has been connected with the Travelers Insurance Company for a number of years as Manager of Agency Devel­opment and Life, Accident and Group Departments at Sioux City, Iowa, has recently been promoted to an execu­tive position in the Chicago office of this Company. This represents a dis­tinct recognition of Afs abilities and the members of his Class, and all Notre Dame men extend congratula­tions. The above note from the pen of JIM SANFORD. 
1919 
'19—GEORGE D. HALLER is as­sociated with the law firm of Light­ner, Hanley, Crawford and Dodd in Detroit. 
1920 '20—THOMAS BEACOM, Jr., of Chicago was married to Miss Rosi­land Mooney, of Hollywood, Calif., in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Jan. 8. Rev. THOMAS J. TOBIN, a class­mate, read the ceremony. Tom was president of the Class in his Senior year, and organizer of the Students Activities Council. 
Mr. and Mrs. Beacom will reside at 2600 Lakeview Ave., Chicago, after a trip to Bermuda. 
'20—^The Alumni Office is in receipt of a note from DAN ROBERTS who is living at 1923 First Avenue, Spo­kane, Wash. 
'20—The following letter from a '20 grad from the sunny, sunny clime of Los Angeles (chorus from San Francisco alumni: "0 yeah!") adds some spicy notes from that year. Dear Jim: 
The impolite reference in the last issue of the ALUMNUS quite na­turally calls for some action on the part of last year's Secretary. I do not know who has been appointed to act during the current year but no­tice from the ALUMNUS that no change has been made in the 1920 masthead. 
As far as news is concerned the principal and foremost is the mar­riage of TOM BEACOM at Notre Dame, the details of which have no doubt reached the ALUMNUS long before this. However, it is interest­ing to note that both Tom Beacom and PAUL CONAGHAN came to Los Angeles to find themselves brides. Tom Beacom and Paul Conaghan now become brothers-in-law by marriage. 
I recently had a note from FA­THER TOBIN, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon, advising of his trip to Notre Dame to perform the marriage of Tom Beacom and his bride. 
CHARLIE CUS.ACK has been com­muting between Chicago, Colorado Springs, and Cuero, Texas, and Los Angeles for the past two years. He has finally decided to settle down and make his home in Beverly Hills, Cali­fornia. Charlie did not heed in any way the statements of the local Chambers of Commerce but made his own independent investigations and reached the same conclusion in spite of the fact that Los Angeles recently had a tremendous one hour snow storm. 
I note from the Chicago papers that LEO HASSENAUER, LL.B., '20, is on the committee to alleviate the conditions in Chicago with refer­ence to keeping the schools open. He recently addressed a meeting at­tended by 25,000 school teachers at the Chicago Stadium. On the pro­gram with Leo were Mayor Cermak, Leo's associate in the practice of law, Donald R. Richberg, and many other prominent Chicago citizens. The pro­gram advocated by the committee headed by Leo Hassenauer is that State aid should be given Chicago in order to keep open the public schools and afford public education. Leo's picture appeared in quite a few edi­tions of all Chicago papers. His of­
ficial title was Chairman of the Pro­' gram Committee. 
BODIE ANDREWS is in Los An­geles on a little business. Bodie makes his home in Oakland, Cali­fornia. 
During the Christmas holidays LAWRENCE "BUCK" SHAW, MOR­RIS "CLIPPER" SMITH, and JACK MEAGHER spent some time here, later attending the meeting of the Pacific Coast conference, which was held in San Francisco. Clipper had the unusual experience in New Or­leans of playing half a game in the daytime and half a game at night. The game was played on Thanks­giving day and this plan was sug­gested in order that the good people of New Orleans might have an op­portunity to go home and have their Thanksgiving dinner and return af­terwards to enjoy the remainder of the game. 
With kindest personal regards, I am, Very truly yours, Leo B. Ward. 
1922 
'22 —ROMAINE R. REICHERT was married to Miss Eloise Bring-gold on January 25, in Minneapolis Minn. They are at home at 3125 Holmes Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
'22—G. A. ASHE, otherwise known as "Kid" sends in some interesting news for the Class. 
Scarcely had our appeal for help gone forth when we received a letter from EDDIE PFEIFFER who oblig­ingly showers us with some interest­ing news about the boys in Louisville. Eddie says: 
"The crazy dream you had, stirred me enough to write you. It would he fine to hear from each and everyone of the class. Nothing new or interest­ing has happened here in Louisville, so this will be the same. 
"You mentioned FRANK BLOE­MER, PHIL DANT, and PETE ECKERLE. Well, Bloemer is the big Chili man in town and has a growing business in Northern Kentucky and Southern Indiana. The life must be agreeing with him as he is getting fatter every day (Ed.—We trust this is a slight exaggeration for Frank's sake). Frank, as you know, is mar­ried and has a little girl two and one-half years old. Phil Dant is the furni­ture man around town, known as "Dant Brothers, Better Furniture." He likewise is the father of a little girl. PETE ECKERLE after wander­ing around Chicago, has returned to Kentucky and is with the Kentucky Highway Department in Frankfort. He comes to Louisville every week­end and I see him in church on Sun­day quite regularly. Pete is still single to the best of my knowledge. I 
am in the insurance business with 
Comie (Fidelity and Guaranty Fire 
Corporation). I have a daughter also: 
There are no prospects for Notre 
Dame here. 
"Well, Shorty, after you have read 
this far I know you are bored plenty, 
but I wonder if you ever hear any­
thing of MATT WEIS or FRANK 
CONNELLY who were with us from 
1918 to '21. Stir them up as I would 
like to hear from them and the rest 
of the class of '22." 
Thanks for the news, Eddie, and may you inspire others of '22 to get a strangle hold on the old quill and give us some news of the boys in their vicinity. We know nothing of Matt or Frank Connelly, sorry to say, but maybe we can catch somebody off their guard long enough to divulge some information regarding them. 
Now that everyone has ceased talk­ing football for the present, we will break the spell long enough to offer as a prize one handful of Pittsburgh stogies (knowing we can't lose) to the person who can name a finer pair of ends than EDDIE ANDERSON and RODGE KILEY who performed for 
N. D. a little over a decade ago. 
1923 
'23—DAN J. REGAN has moved from Dallas, Texas, to Denvei% Colo. He is located with the Pacific Finance Corp., and can be i-eached at the 530 Continental Oil Bldg., in Denver. He has, incidentally, been promoted to manager of the Denver cifice. Dan would like to get in touch with some of the N. D. men around Denver. 
'23-JOSEPH NYIKOS is father of another daughter, Janan, born in •January. 
'23—FRANK W^ALLACE is work­ing hard on his fourth novel in two years. 
'23—J. STANLEY BRADBURY of Robinson, Illinois, has thro«Ti his hat in the political ring. Stanley is seeking election as States Attorney of Crawford County. 
1924 
'24—HUGH C. BOYLE married Miss Ann McDonough in January and is living in Pittsburgh. 
'24—ROBERT RIORDAN, Regis­trar of the University, read a paper. The Economy of Preparedness, before the members of the Faculty Club of the University at a recent meeting. 
'24 —THOMAS HODGSON has moved from Sleepy Eye, Minn., to St. Paul, Minn., c-o State Banking De­partment, Capitol Bldg. Tom has re­cently been appointed attorney for the State Department of Banking and wiU henceforth be making his home in St. Paul. 
1925 '25—JIM EMSHWILLER is Prose­cuting Attorney of Hartford City, In­diana, and served in that capacity in the recent sensational case in which the Sheriff was alleged to be the leader of a bandit gang. 
'25—WILLIAM NEVILLE, speak­ing of Prosecuting Attorneys, is P. A.. of Genesee County, N. Y. 
'25—JACK COURTNEY is with the Electro Refractories and Alloys Corp., and is living in Dearborn, Michigan. He is married and the father of two splendid children. 
'25^IOHN P. HURLEY, Jr., is spending his honeymoon in Bermuda and the West Indies. He was mai-ried to Miss Marie Hahn of Cleveland, on January 30. RAYMOND CUNNING­HAM, another well-known member of the famous Class of '25, seized as best man. GEORGE HAHN, brother of the bride, and one of the ushers at the wedding, is a former student of Notre Dame. 
'25—PAUL C. ROMWEBER was married to Miss Katherine Conway on February 3, Philadelphia, Pa. They will be at home after May 1 at Bates-ville, Ind. 
'25—RUDOLPH GOEPFRICH is the father of a daughter, born the first part of December, 1931. "Ruddy" and Mrs. Goepfrich are living in South Bend. 
'25—Carol Erminie is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD L. MUL­LANEY. She was born January 15, and weighed nine pounds, two and one-half ounces. Dick says: "Our fourth." 
'25—Dr. CHARLES E. GUTH in a recent letter to the Office, announces the birth of a girl, born January 10. Dr. and Mrs. Guth and family are living in Elyria, Ohio. 
'25—The following typical note from GEORGE CHAO, a most loyal and interested alumnus, follows: 
"Dear Jim: "Please kindly excuse me for not writing you for a long time. Here is some news. I met last fall Mr. LOUIS P. HARL in Paris. I was kindly received by hira and we visited together 'I'e.xposition coloniale' in Paris and talked much of Notre Dame. I read recently the autobiog­raphy of Rock with genuine pleasure.  got three impressions from the book: Mrs. Rockne gives us a touch of pathos; Father Cavanaugh made the tragedy story a very pleasant reading with his supernatural style, and lastly Rock himself revealed to every Notre Dame man his true spirit of 'fighting Irish' which is familiar to us. 
"Please tell me some news of Notre 
Dame and yourself. How is Doc Cooney?" 
George has. moved from Fribourg, Switzerland to 28 rue des Joyeuses Entrees, Louvain, Belgium. 
1926 
'26—B ERNI E WINGERTER'S friends are congratulating him upon his promotion to Credit Manager of the New York office of the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. Sev­eral other Notre Dame men are in Wink's department, including BOB SHIELDS, '27, DAN CANNON, '30 and JOE CANNY. '31. 
'26—LARRY KEEFE is assistant sales manager of the Tulip Cup Com­pany, with offices in the Chanin Building, New York City. 
'26—DOC GELSON, EDDIE FAL­LON and "BILL REID, all members of the Class of '26, have been named by the nominating committee of the Notre Dame Club of New York as candidates for the Board of Govern­ors for the two year term. Election is scheduled for February 25. 
'26—RICHARD (RED) SMITH if. confined in the Beth Israel Hospital, Newark, N, J., following a successful operation. Red and Mrs. Smith are living at 36 S. Munn Avenue, East Orange, N. J. 
'26—The versatile secretary, DR. JERRY HAYES, divides his spare moments between clinics in Manhat­tan and points on Long Island. 
1927 
'27—BILL COYNE, who has been connected with the Department of Speech while continuing his studies, is now in charge of the University Debating Team. As a veteran Breen Medalist and an ardent student under Father Bolger, Bill is well qualified to coach through a successful season. 
'27—Judge AL DOYLE, brother-in­law of LESTER GRADY, '27, divides his time between the Mishawaka bench and his speech classes at the University. 
'27—HARRY RYAN was a visitor in the Alumni Office early in January. He is studying for the Priesthood in Kenrick Seminary and will be or­dained in the Summer. 
'27—GERALD LYONS, who has been the editor of a newspaper in Rockville Center, N, Y., is now man­ager of the Harrisburg, Pa., branch of the Associated Press. 
'27—ED DE CLERQ, Class Secre­tary, breaks a long silence, by send­ing in a fine long letter, waxing enthusiastic over the '27 Reunion (plans are already under way) and enclosing the following splendid Class Notes. 
"It is my pleasure to see JOHN 
GEARY from time to time ,as he 
lives just one block away from your 
most humble Secretary. Johnny appar­
ently is quite prosperoas in these hard 
times, as he drives around in a com­
paratively new coupe (make—un­
known). 
"Received a lengthy letter from 
MIKE McDERMOTT shortly before 
Christmas, and his old pals may be 
pleased to know that he is established 
in S"eattle, Washington. 
"Also heard from DAN McCLUS-KE Y recently, who is ever striving to save law-breakers from the law's clutches. It wasn't so long ago that he aspired to a position in Janesville, Wisconsin, Avherein it would have been necessary to try to jail them. He, incidentally, took occasion to boast of Dan, the second, who by this time is about four months' old. Can't blame you a bit, Dan, as I have done plenty of that same thing for the past eleven months.' 
"I recently attended one of the 
weekly luncheons of the Notre Dame-
Chicago Club and met ED RYAN, 
JIMMY JONES, ED GARRITY and 
BOB STEFFAN. All looked hale and 
hearty, although Jim looked rather 
worried about something. I wonder 
what? 
Ed Garrity advanced the surpris­
ing news (old as it may be) that 
FRED DEUTSCH was married to 
Miss Mary Reeves last May 29th. 
Congratulations, even though tardy 
and wishes for every possible happi­
ness to you and Mrs. Deutsch. 
"Heard a rumor to the effect that JACK PATTEN is soon to be mar­ried. Please let me know when it happens, Jack. 
•"Sometime ago (sorry, Jim), I re­ceived word from JIMMY JAY. He was then writing continuity and radio plays for Station WLW Cincinnati, Ohio. In addition he was taking part in a detective play called "Crime­lights" every Tuesday night. Jim would appreciate a word as to the quality of his productions from any of you who can tune in WLW. 
"Now any of you fellows who have any news to pass along, please drop me a line, because, as I assured Jim Ai-mstrong', I took . but one New­Year's resolution and that was to write him every month whether I had any notes for him on the Class of '27, or not. Hope it won't be neces­sary to send him a blank letter at anytime during the whole year." 
'27—Miss Rita Marie O'Shea was married to DANIEL FRANCIS CUN­ningham, Jr., on January 20, Forest Hills, Long Island, N. Y. 
'27—WILLIAM M. HOLLAND, Jr., married Miss Kathryn Kavanagh on Saturday, February 6, at Notre Dame, Ind. 
' '27—Senorita Luz Elena JIarti be­came the bride of FERNANDO TEE­VINO according to a recent announce­ment from Mexico. 
'27—Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP E. DOELL announce the birth of a son, Philip Martin, on Januai-y 9. 
'27—LUTHER SWYGERT'S friends will be interested in learning of his marriage to Miss Mildred Kereher, of C3iicago. The wedding took place Oc­tober 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. Swygert are residing in the Cordova Court apartments, Hammond, Indiana, where the groom is deputy prosecutor. 
'27—The third member of the House of BEIRNE, EOGER, is a junior at Notre Dame, member of the Varsity football squad and prominent in Uni­versity theatricals. His brothers, PETER and JOHN are active in the Alumni Association. They may be located at 73 Sherman Coui-t, Fair­field, Conn. 
'27—Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH Mc-GEE are the parents of a girl, Mary Grace, who was bom during the holi­days. 
'27—A letter from BOB BARTL gives us some dope on some of the boys. Bob says: 
"Did you know that JOE aiUE-PHY is the father of two fine chil­dren? AUGGIE GRAMS' has one of which you no doubt have heard. ICARL SCHAETTLE has the future 
N. D. fullback under his roof at pres­ent. I have a little girl two years old now who can ask plenty of ques­tions. . . . Yes, I'm still working. I am afiiliated with the La Crosse Rub­ber Mills Company and let me tell you—business is picking up." 
1928 
• '28—Coach WILLIAM BLAKELY JONES, having completed a most successful season as Director of Ath­letics at Mount St. Charles College, Helena, Montana, came back to Notre Dame the latter part of January for a short visit. Bill is singing the praises of the great West and is en­thusiastic over the work at Mount St. Charles. He is practicing law when not teaching the "Notre Dame system." 
Rumor has it that Bill is now on a speaking tour of the State with Bishop George J. Pinnigan, '10, 
'28—JOHN T. CULLINAN was re­cently appointed assistant City Attor­ney of Bridgeport, Conn. He was formerly associated with the former City Attorney in the practice. An interesting angle to the appointment is the fact that the Mayor who made the appointment had the pleasure of naming John's father, the late Thomas M. Cullinan to the position of city attorney over twenty years ago. 
Besides his degree from Notre Dame, John holds a degree from the Yale Law school. 
'28—JOHN "BOTTS" CROWLEY is connnected with the A. G. Spauld­ing & Bros., athletic outfitters, Cin­cinnati, Ohio, according to a recent letter to the Office. 
'28—EDWARD A. TEHAN, Jr., announces that a demonstration of free squealing may be obtained by calling at 2109 Elmwood Ave., Spring­field, Ohio, after February 20. Edward Allan was bom February 6. 
'28—BUCKY DAHMAN is back at Notre Dame to take some extra class work, ha\'ing recent resigned as head football and basketball coach at St. Viator's College. 
'28—HENRY "AL" HUDSON, was married January 23, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. Mrs. Hudson was formerly Miss Helen C. Phillips. PAUL FENLON '19, was best man and Rev. KEENDT HEALY, C. S. C, '15, perfoimed the ceremony. 
'28—LEO FETTIG was married to Miss Lenora M. McKenzie on January 26 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Rev. Theodore V. Fettig, brother of the groom, performed the ceremony. 
The couple were married at the side altar in the chapel made from a bureau which has been in the bride's family since 1725 and had been used as an altar by Father Badin. 
They will reside in Elwood, Ind. 
'28—^Miss Ann Dorothy Donohue became the bride of LEO J. SCHUL­THEIS on Februai-j' 6, at St. James Church, Louisville, Ky. 
'28—MILLARD PHILIP FRANZ, formerly of Friend, Nebraska, was found dead in a car parked on a highway near New York late last Fall, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. No details concerning the tragedy have been learned. He was apparently the vic­tim of a holdup. Millard was a stu­dent at Notre Dame from 1924 to 1927. 
'28—Friends of JOSEPH DENIS MURPHY will regret to hear of his death on Febniary 7, in Detroit, ' Michigan. Joe had been ill since graduation. 
'28—EAY LAWLEE sends in a newsy letter concerning some of the fellows who graduated in '27, '28, '29 and '30. He says, in part: 
"Announcement has been made of the marriage of JOSEPH HOEAN and Elizabeth Carmichael of Schenec­tady. DeKalb is Joe's home town. Since his graduation in '28 he has been living in Schenectady and work­ing for General Electric, I believe. 
"I have seen AL WELZENBACH '30 and JERRY DECLERQ '28, both of whom put in their time for Stand­ard Brands . . , Fleischman's Yeast to you and you and you. MOET GOODMAN '30 is still aspiring; to be Chicago's largest real estate operator. 
J. J. McCOEMICK '29 of Detroit passed the Michigan Bar and has his cSces in the Penobscot Bldg., in that city. He says that he isn't married yet, but I know that he might just as well be. TOM KEEEIGAN '30 is working days and going to school nights. He is taking law. So is JOHNNY HOULIHAN. JOHN CON­LIN '27, also of DeKalb, has been happily married for over a year and is still engaged in helping his father in the Hay, Grain, Feed and Coal business, I hear from reliable sources that GENE SCHWARTZ '27, is run­ning for public office on the Demo­cratic ticket in DuPage County. 
'28—^"Speaking of roommates, 1 must mention that JOE BRANNON was in to see us a few times this month. Joe is with the Advertising Department of Sears, Roebuck and Co., and works out of their Chicago offices. He has just returned from a Western business trip which included the states of Washington and Cali­fornia. Next month he goes South to New Orleans. 
'28—"TOM LAVELLE broke his long silence by coming through with a most interesting letter from Ander­son, Indiana. Tom didn't say much about himself but suggested a "Do You Remember When" column for this section. I think it is a great idea and intend to publish some of the material he sent in this column next month. The Alumni Secretary informs me that this is a 'depres­sion' issue so I must economize on space." 
'28—"JOE JOHNSON who is with the National City Bank in the troubled war-stricken areas of China in a recent message to a friend wrote: 'Thus far I have escaped without injuries. The fighting is ter­rific, however, and all of us are in grave danger. We can see the bullets fly from the roof of the hotel, and it is common to see Japanese or Chi­nese fall dead to the ground from machine gun fire or snipers' bullets." 
'28—Mr. and Mrs. JAMES HAY­WARD have another daughter, bom February 14. Haywards now have one son and two daughters. 
'28—BILL ARMIN who was known in his undergraduate days for his ac­counting fame is back at Notre Dame in the office of the Treasurer of the University. Bill is more than busy with his new work. 
'28—LOUIE BUCKLEY, famous Class Secretary, adds a few Notes for the '28 boys. Louis says: "My old roommate, WILLARD WAGNER. is back in South Bend after having spent two years in New York. Wag just couldn't stay away from the South Bend girl friend so is here pre­paring to take the Indiana Bar ex­amination. It seems natural to see Wag when one drops into Hully & Mike's for a few minutes. 
1929 
'29—Word has been received of the death of Lieut. F. X. KELLY, for­merly of Brooklyn, N. Y'. He at­tended Notre Dame in 1925-26. 
'29—WILLIAM R. LAUGHLIN was married early this year to Miss Rose Amen of Grand Island, Neb. Bill and his bride are living at 1408 Buchanan St., Topeka, Kansas, and if this information is incorrect blame brother Joe Laughlin, senior law stu­dent at Notre Dame. The dope is from him. 
'29—Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Judge announce the marriage of their daughter, Cecelia, to LINUS CLEM­ENT NIEMEYER on Monday, De­cember 28, 1931, at St. Cecelia's Church, Ames, Iowa. 
'29—The Chicago Tribune informs us of the marriage of Genevieve Steffy to RICHARD PAUL MOODY. Dick has been on our "unclaimed" list for about a year. An address for the 3Ioodys will be appreciated. 
'29—DONAL O'BRIEN married Misss Gladys Christine Pell on Janu­ary 9, 1932. They are living at 5101 39th Ave., Sunnyside, Long Island, 
N. Y. 
'29-JOHN ROURKE, Jr., and Margaret Healy Rourke are the parents of a son, boi-n in December and named Anthony John. There are three daughters. 
Dear Jim: The Class of '29 doesn't seem to rate very much ink in your publica­tion, but I suppose it isn't exactly your fault. Here are some remarks which you might be able to use if you care to— WILL BUTLER, 153S Elmwood Ave., Lakewood, Ohio, is a banker. At the United National Bank of Cleveland. Bill finds the banking busi­ness to be good. He is the head of a happy family and the proud father of a daughter. Bill writes that the following are also family men: 
• JOHNNY MEAGHER, BUD CLARK, PHIL TOMPKINS, MICICEY Mc-MAHON, and JOE ICRAKER. Bill feels quite jubilant about Ray Mil­ler's victory in the campaign for Mayor of the City of Cleveland. We recall Bill as being a fair politician about the campus, and it's not hard to imagine him working for Miller. To Bill's list of "married men" I can add FRED MILLER, CHET BRUM­LEVE, LARRY DE LEERS and P-A.T O'LEARY. 
IVAN WOLF drove up here in a shiny new Ford which is indicative of the fact that A. <£: P. purchasing department in Youngstown isn't treating him badly. 
JACK DONOGHUE end CHAR­LEY SCHUTTY are located in West AUis and show up regularly for the Milwaukee Club activities. CLARK STANHOPE is with the Wisconsin Bell Telephone Co. at Beloit, Wis­consin and doing right well. My brother Gene is with the research de­partment of the A. 0. Smith Corpor. ation here in Milwaukee. JEAN LA­BOULE topped off his law work at the University of Wisconsin by tak­ing a trip abroad, and I hear he is planning on assuming real estate distribution problems. PAUL HO­LAHAN is auditing for the Ohio Bell Telephone Company. 
All for hearing more about the Class of '29. Sincerely, Ang. Galdabini. 
1930 
'30—DONALD VOSS has taken 
unto himself a wife. The girl is the 
fonner Miss Virginia Cooper. They 
are living in Elkhora, Wis. 
'30—BERNIE CONROY contrib­
utes the following: 
Dear Jim: 
I am enclosing a clipping of HUGHIE BOYLE'S wedding and I also know that CHARLEY SULLI­VAN is married and living on River­side Drive here. He is working for General Motors Acceptance Corp. 
JOHN V. JIORAN is manager of the Pratt Coal Company, of Taunton, Mass. John was a nominee for- the School committee of Taunton, but I have not heard how the people voted. 
The news from New Orleans is that JIBI FAVRET has been a valuable aid to his father, who is a prominent contractor in that city. 
HARRY MAGNER is operating a department store in Bridgeport, Conn. 
I met FRANK MOSHER at a New York Club meeting last week. Fx-ank has a job with the city and he is helping to keep the subways running. 
GEORGE McDONALD and ED YORKE are attending Cornell Medi­cal School here in New York. 
From Oklahoma we learn that JIM BURKE is doing fine with The Board-man Company of Oklahoma City and HASKELL ASKEW has a position with the State. 
ED CRONIN can still be found in South Bend. He keeps the Bendix Stromberg Carburetor Company in running order. 
JOHN BELJON played a promi­nent in this year's Prom. This year his "In Araby" was presented daring the evening in the Arabian decorated dining hall. John's favorite "My Prom Sweetheart" helped FRANK CARIDEO through that dance in "The Spirit of Notre Dame." Broad­casting on WGAR, playing the organ at Our Lady of Peace Church, and booking bands keeps Beljohn busy in Cleveland. 
Notre Dame was well represented at the coaches meeting. The fellows are finding it tough to locate in that business, too. 
I get to see WATTS EICHEE now and then. We had hopes of having him in here with us, but I believe he will locate in Tudor City Apartments. 
I was sorry to hear the way things have been going with the Association. I can't understand why the fellows can't get their dues in at least. I'm sui-e they get at least fifty cents worth of pleasure out of each issue of the ALUMNUS. However, it is a tough world this year and we are all plenty worried. 
Best of luck and don't forget the address—1055 Park Avenue, New York City. 
Bemie Conroy. '30—PHILIP P. DI GIORGIO was married to Miss Carolyn Major of Ridgewood, N. J., January 29. FRED DAVIS, '3D, JIM ROURKE, '31 and HARLEY McDEVITT, '29, were among the ushers. 
'30—JOHN CRAWFORD (Buster) REDGATE and Miss Mary Catherine HoUister are engaged to be married. No date announced. 
'30—WILLIAM MAY has just undergone an operation. 
'30_WILBUR GULP is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, where he is attend­ing the University of Cincinnati. He is doing graduate work in chemistry and hopes to finish in June. The ad­dress is: 2606 Highland Ave., Cincin­nati. 
1931 
•31—JAMES J. HUGHES is a freshman medical student at Ohio State. His address is: Alpha Kappa Kappa House, 199 W. 10th Ave., Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
'31—THOMAS F. GOLDEN writes from Butte, Montana to say that he is selling for General Electric and the "prospects for future happiness are reasonably good." Tom says he would like to hear from any of the fellows in his vicinity. 
'31—EDWARD R. BKENNAN is a member of the South Bend Tribune staff. 
'31—LAWRENCE (MOON) MUL­LINS will take over the position of head coach and Athletic Director-of St. Benedict's College, Atchison, Kan­sas, beginning in September, 1932. 
'31—EUGENE COYLE passed the 
C. P. A. exam in Chicago, 111., re­cently, the first time Gene had taken the exam. 
•31-^OHN BOL-A.ND reports the following: 
"I hear that BILL LE.A.HY took the C. P. A. exam in Chicago with GENE COYLE. LEN HORAN is studying for his master's degree at Loyola, while working with the United Charities in Chicago. NICK BOHLING, VERN ICNOX, BOB PRENDERGAST and JIMMY RICH are all studying law at Kent. ED RYAN is doing the same thing at De-Paul. BILL LEAHY is clearing uj) the tax situation in Cook county in the Highway department. ROY BAILIE is connected with the Fire­stone Company in New York and from all reports is doing very well. BOB B.\IR is selling insurance while JERRY CROWLEY is traveling for the O'Brien Varnish Company, after having spent a very enjoyable Sum­mer touring Europe. BERT MALO­NEY is operating a gasoline station in Chicago, while D.4N H.A.LPIN is doing publicity work for Universal Pictures. BOB NEYDON is working in the Hudson department store in Detroit. 
"JACK RIEDELL writes in that he composes the bread line in Paris, 
III. He reports that ICARL SCHER­ER is going to school at Rochester University and that JIMMY MAD­DEN is in the Medical school at St. Louis. 
"These few notes compose my en­tire stock of knowledge concerning the Class of '31 and I'm going to make an appeal to the fellows to send on any notes which they pick up concerning anv member of the Class." 
'31—Miss Margaret Moran of Staunton, Virginia, became the bride of GEORGE CARL HILLENBRAND on January 5, in St. Francis Church, Staunton. WILLIAM A. HILLEN­BRAND, '27, sen-ed as his brother's best man and JOHN W. HILLEN­BRAND, '25, was one of the ushers. Mr. and Mrs. Hillenbrand sailed Jan­uary' 9 for a Mediterranean cruise, to be away several months. They will be at home in Batesville, Indiana. 
'31—An interesting letter from HARRY E. KENNEDY tells of his experiences in Buenos jVires. Harr.v says: "Since my graduation I have travelled many miles to trj' to locate myself in the field of my chosen ca­reer. I came to Buenos Aires August 29, 1931, and after a thorough search of almost a month I found a trial po­sition in the Firestone Company of Argentine. I had inteniewed some -f the largest American companies here and many of them suggested that I return to the States in order to save time and money. I was deter­mined to find something here because I felt there must be at least one po­sition in such a large city. 
"In my interview with the manager of the Firestone Tire and Rubber company here, I encountered a novel experience. It was like taking my college examinations all over again. He wanted to know why I came here, what I had studied and where I went to college. He asked me many ques­tions concerning economics, market-inf, accounting and the business field in general. Finally, after several visits to his office he ofi'ered me a trial position in the accounting de­partment for a month. I have been here since the 7th of September. The work is verj' exacting but I like the place very much. . . . 
"The country is very modem. In fact, it reminds me very much of New Y'ork. The city has new im­proved subways and beautiful parks, plazas and wide avenidas. The people are wonderful to me and I am learn­ing Spanish quite well. I have met many Americans but so far know only one Notre Dame man. He is JULIO ARCE, '00. I am living with him. . . . My three months here seem more like three weeks. I expect to remain here about three years before I return 'to the States for a visit, and then I may come back at the end of a vacation at home." 
'31—JOHN B. Law, former foot­ball captain and a graduate of the Class of 1931, is the proud father of an eight pound son, bom at Yonkers, 
N. Y., February IS. Johnny is doing very well in the life insurance busi­ness as an associate of The John C. McNamara Organization. 
1932 
'32—THOMAS Y'ARR was married February 3 in Chicago. The girl was the former Miss Rosemary Killen of Chicago. FRANK LEAHY, '32, was the best man. Tom will be a mem­ber of next year's coaching staff at Notre Dame. The Yarrs expect to make their home in South Bend. 
PAYMENT OF DUES BY CLASSES DRAW YOUR OWN CONCLUSIONS 
[ 
No. Living  Dues  
Class  Members  P.-iiii  Pet  Class  
1913  68  29  .426  1918  
1931  460  188  .408  1909  
189G  15  '6  .400  1916  
1900  18  7  .388  1886  
1926  279  108  .387  1908  
1930  399  154  .387  
1897  16  6  .375  (Of  
1920  83  31  .373  
1912  58  21  .362  1927  
1880-85  25  9  .360  1894  
1904  42  15  .357  1901  
1911  66  21  .3i8  1906  
1890-93  57  18  .315  1905  
1899  16  5  .312  1889  
1923  170  53  .311  1922  
1925  314  97  .308  1924  
1898  17  5  .298  1914  
1915  67  20  .298  Before  
1903  27  8  .296  1887  
1910  38  11  .289  1919  
1917  105  28  .266  1895  
1928  463  122  .263  1902  
1929  471  124  .263  
1921  93  17  .260  Totals  

•• E ^elusive of Reliidous and Summer School 
No, Living  Dues  
Members  Paid  Pet.  
62  16  .258  
43  11  .255  
75  19  .253  
8  2  .250  
40  10  .250  

the remaining Classes, not 1 in 4 paid) 362 88 .243 
25 6 .240 21 5 .238 38 9 .236 17 4 .235 13 3 .230 158 36 .227 248 55 .221 82 18 .219 1880 30 6 .200 10 2 .200 46 9 .195 33 6 .181 32 5 .156 
4757** 1422 .298 
Graduates. 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Dr. Pat C. Doran. '23. Ill S. Maple St. President: Glenn Smith, '27. 104 Oak-dale Ave.. Sccretao*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Barrj-, *97, 82 W. Penninston St.. Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. •23. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassncr, '14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C., "02, Dac­ca, President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C.. Dacca, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON— Joseph A. Gartland. Jr., '27, 60 Congress St.. Boston, President: Maurice Cohen. '27, 32 N. Pleasant St.. Taunton, Mass. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. '27. 86 Liberty St., Bridgeport. Conn, (temporarychairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Martin Ryan, '28. 21 Orchard Place. Buf. falo. President: C. J. Irwin. Jr.. '20. 325 WashinRton St., BufFnlo, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—Luther M. SwyKCrt. '27. Suite 305 Hirsch Bids., Hammond. Ind.. President: Pat Maloney. *16, Crown Point, Ind.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITAL DISTRICT—J. J. Meehan. '2-1. 70 Rob­inson St.. Schenectady. N. Y., President: Walter A. O'Brien. '31. 202 Sherman St.. Albany, N. Y., Secretar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— James H. Brennan. '20. Ill W. Monroe St., Chicago, HI., President; James Mc-Nicholas, '25, Room 1048. 38 S. Dearborn St.. Chicairo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —E. C. McHuBh, '09, P. O. Box 429, President: W. D. Morrissey, '26, Cath­olic Charities Bureau, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —John Butler, '27. 16911 EdEewatcr Dr.. Lakewood. Ohio, President: George Ker­ver, o. s. '20, El. '30, 1381 Granger, Cleveland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran-field, '13, State BldB., 1200 Main Street, Springfield, Mass., President; James A. Curry, '14. 647 Main St., Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Joseph B. Murphy, '11, 309-15 Mutual Home Bids., President: William Kav­anaugh, '27. 244 Grafton Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickcy, '28, 1515 Grant St., Presi­dent: O. L, Hough, '27, 1375 Race St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22, Des Moines Catholic College, President: Charles H. Lynch. '28. 1429 - 13th St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John E. Moore. Detroit. Mich.. Presi­dent: Paul J. Dooley, '25. 148 Pallister, Detroit, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. '12, 
161] R. L Ave.. N. W., Washington, President: James D. Hayes, 5115 Eighth St., N. W., Washington, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17, Erie Daily Times, President: 'Thomas Barber. '24, 416 Newman St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin, '01, 336 W. Wool-and Ave., President: Robert Eggeman, '30, 1201 First Natl. Bank Bldg.. Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FOX RIVER VALLEY—John V. Diener, '09, 735 S. Quincy St., Green Bay, President: John Gallagher, o. s.. '25. Shawano. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH.—George E. Ludwig, '23, 328 Glenhaven Ave., N. W.. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini, '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., 
S. E.. Secretary. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON, OHIO—M. O. Bums. "86. 338 S. Second 
St., President: Marc A. Fiehrer. '27. TOl Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
s 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA LAND—Henry J. Lauerman. '23, 1327 Sheridan Rd.. Menominee. Mich.. Presi­dent; Meredith Doyle. '26, 930 Sheridan Rd., Menominee. Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston, Texas. President: T. F. Green. Jr., '27. 407 Sterling Bids., Houston, Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—J. P. McNamara. '29, 231 Wis­consin St,. President: Walter Houppert, '25, 343 N. Arsenal Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET— Joseph Adler. '24, 318 Buell Ave.. Joliet. 111.. President: John Berscheid. "29, 904 Mason Ave.. Joliet. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY. MO.—Dr. D. M. Nigro, '14, 631 Argyle Bldg., President; Maurice Car­roll. '19. 731 Linwood Blvd.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Frank B. Bloemer. Jr.. 126 E. Jefferson. Louisville. President: H. R. Dempf, '23, 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg.. Louisville. Sec. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES —John W. Wadden, '07, 7101 Sunset Blvd.. President: Laurence A. Moore. '29. 928 S. Bixel St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St.. New Orleans. President; Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel. '24, c/o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —Wm. J. Redden. '14. 3325 W. North Ave.. Milwaukee. President: Frank Hol­clampf. '28, 3317 N. Humboldt Ave., Milwaukee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen. '96, 433 Qark St.. Helena, President: James B. O'Flynn. '11, Great Falls, Mont, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —H. L. Qaibome. o. s.. '18, 1720 West End Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF NEBRASKA— 
J. H. Mithen. '92. 1413 City Natl. Bank Bldg.. Omaha. President; Gerald J. Bar­ret '22. 315 S. 37th St. Omaha. Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY —William Carter, '27. 68 Fourth St. South Orange. N. J., President; Joseph Nulty, '27, 1056 Arlington Ave.. Plain­field. N. J.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—Hugh A. O'Donncll. '94. New York Times. President; Edward A. Byrne. '26, 26 Court St, Brooklyn, Sec. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—John S. Mclnnes. care Stephenson-Leydecker & Co.. Alexander Bldg., San Francisco. President: Mark Kreuticr. '24, 311 California St, San Francisco, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hoster Realty Bldg., Columbus, Presi­dent ; F. X. Finneran. 615 West Chapel St.. Columbus. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea. o. s., '09. 902 E-x­changc Natl. Bank, Tulsa. President: Leo A. Schumacher. *13, King Wood Oil Co.. Okmulgee. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, '16. Paris Office. N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA—Clarence J. James, o. s. '15, 712 Widener Bldg.. President: Harry H. Francis. Jr., '30, 15 Spring Ave., Ard­more. Pa., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —Dr. Joseph F. Duane, '99. 418 Jefferson Bldg.. President; Albert F. Gary, Jr., '28, 704 W. Wilco.x Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PORTLAND— Morrison A. Conway. '14.1514 Vancouver Ave.. President; L. B. Macnab. '23, 534 
American Bank Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER— 
C. Norbert Baglin. '19. 2S Amett Blvd.. President; Raymond D. Downs, *26. 46 Ginton Ave., S., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Sherwood Dixon. '20. 120 E. First St, Dixon, 111.. President: J. Wil­lard Jones, '25, 122 Crawford Ave., DLxon, 111., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Bernard VoU, 'IT, Sibley Machine Company, South Bend. Ind.. President; William F. Sheeban, '24, 300 N. Main St, South Bend, Ind.. See'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo SutlilTe. '24, 2701 So. Grand. Presi­dent : Robert Hellrung, '30. 7214 North-moor Drive. University City. Mo., Secy. 
NOTRE DAilE CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrington. '23. Continental Mortgage Co.. President: John W. Rick­ord. '28. 1507 Virginia St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Jacob 
E. Eckel. '16. 121 Erie St, Syracuse, President: Frederick T. DeLany, '30, 20O Onondaga Ave., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Joseph Meager. "25, MT Catherine Court, San Antonio. President; Leonard Hess. '23, 228 W. Huisacke Ave., San Antonio, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO —C. J. Schmidt. '11, 260 Melmore St. President: Fred J. Wagner. '29. 152 
Sycamore St, Secretary. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— John P. Hurley. '23. 1420 CoUing­wood Ave., Toledo, President; R. L. Tillman, '25, 3259 Collingwood Ave., Toledo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CrriES—Richard B. Swift. '20, Kohl Bldg., Davenport. la.. President; Henry 
M. McCulIough, '20. 26 HcCulIough Bldg., Davenport, la.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CI­TIES—Allen H. Maher. '28. 194 Wash­ington St., Binshamton. N. Y., Presi­dent ; John D. O'Loughlin. 'o.s. '24, 306-7 People's Trust Company Bldg,. Bing­hamton. N. Y.. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Thomas F. Guthrie. '93. 1111 Nicollett Ave., Minneapolis, President; Leon Hoes, '26, 1230 W. Minnehaha Parkway, Uin­neapolis. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP UTAH—Ray 
R. Brady, '24. 206 Keama Bldg.. Salt Lake City. President: H. E. Weisa, o. •. '06. 913 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer. '25. Purdue Uni­versity. Lafayette. Ind.. President; Peter Vogt. Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre. '28, Bethlehem. Pa.. Temporary Chair­man ; Charles B. McDetinott '27, Allen­town. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA —James S. Devlin. '10. 7741 Forbes St. Pittsburgh. Presi­dent; James L. O'Toole, Jr.. '21. 706 Plaza Bldg., Pittsburgh, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon. 
O.S. '02; Stjmson Bldg.. Seattle, Wash.. President; E. Morris Starrett '14-'21. El. '23. 801 Washington St. Port Town­send, Wash., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP WHEELING, 
W. VA.—W. N. Hogan. '14, Lanrel Ave., ^Vheeling. President: Geprge Sargus, "28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio, Secretwy. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sr. M. Fidelis. O. S. U., '25. S t Ursula's Academy, Toledo, Ohia Presi­dent ; Miss Sarah O'Neill. '27, The Rush-ton. South Bend. Ind.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS­TOWN—James J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank. President: Norman Smith, '24. 126 Roslyn Dr., Secretary. 
•itiiHiiiMiiiiiiaitt • •MIIUIIIIIIIIUIIUIIIIMIIIMIIM B 
"EYES" THAT GUIDE AIRCRAFT 
S
PEED with safety and dependa­bility is the essence oF airplane service. To-day's ship is safer in fog and darkness. Its "eyes" are in its instruments, and the equipment of a new monoplane recently purchased by General Electric is unique in that the instrument panel is almost completely electrified. 
The ship is equipped with many electric devices: automatic steering, radio apparatus for com­munication and contact with directional radio range beacons, and a sonic altimeter to give accurate indication of height above the ground, regardless of visibility. The 300-horsepower engine is equipped with a G-E supercharger. 
Other General Electric apparatus on the ship includes an electric engine-temperature indicator and a selector switch, a magneto compass, a card compass, a drift indicator, a turn indicator, a tachometer, an oil-temperature indicator, an oil-pressure indicator, a voltammeter, control pulleys, landing lights, and an oil immersion heater. 
These developments in air transportation were largely the accomplishments of college-trained engineers who received preliminary experience in the Company's Testing Department. Hundreds of college graduates join the ranb through this department, which trains them for electrical leadership on land, on sea, and in the air. 
95-92SDH 
GENERAL m ELECTRIC 
ENGINEERING SERVICE PRINCIPAL CITIES 






