The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 22 DECEMBER, 1944 No. 8 
The Tradition Lives On! 

The injtued Bob Kelly, halfback, limps through the civilian student body in the Union Sta­tion, South Bend, as the 1944 team returns from New York and the worst defeat in Notre Dame iootball history—that drubbing by Army, 59-0. The students had waited for two hours in the station early Monday morning. Nov. 13. Emphatically, this team was still "their team." 
South Bend Tribune Photo by Dale Murph 
i 

r& 
k*ti%"^ 

i--A> j§ 

'.t^^h 

AUuPuU Rell^dfuU RuLUlUt 
: BY EBV. JOHN P. LTNCH, CS-C, '25; 
To those friends who have written, I apologize for delayed ansirers. Since re­turning to Notre Dame, I have been 
assigned to trav­el, promoting vo­cations, besides giving retreats here and there. 
S ometimes your mail finally arrives with four or five forward­ing addresses. It's all a strain on Fran k Walker's 
Folher lynch postal system
 — 
and on mine, jumping about, living in a grip — and a car. 
KABVABO CATCHING UP 
We "see by the papers" that Harvard Medical College has opened its doors to admit women. 
The admission of women to medical schools is not an innovation, despite the belief of this "modem, progressive world." 
Anyone familiar wth the Catholic Church's historical encouragement and espousal of women, in medicine particu­larly, gets a laugh out of the recent an­niversary celebration of America's first woman doctor graduate. Dr. Blackwell (Hollywood because of the year shelved a picture commemorating the event), less than 75 years ago; the recent agitation for admission of women doctors in the army; and the current mis-named and mis~guided campaign for "emancipation of women." 
"MODEBN" WOHLD WAY BEHIND 
About two years ago Eleanor and various women leaders were agitating for admission of women doctors into the army. 
We weren't so interested in getting women doctors into the army as in get­ting a few historical facts into their heads, showing that the "modern pro­gressive world" was way behind the Catholic Church, centuries behind. 

We prepared a short article and an Eastern newspaper columnist ran it verbatim. (It was originally ours so we don't heed quotes.) 
The suggestion that the Army commis­sion women physicians is not as novel as it. seans. Women physicians and nurses accompanied the knights on the Crusades in the Middle Ages. To distin­guish them from combatants (who wore a red cross) the medical corps, including doctors, nurses, nuns and knights, wore a white cross — the forerunner, as it were, of the modem Red Cross Society. 
Throughout the Middle Ages, up to the time of the Reformation, the prac­tice of medicine was open to women as well as men. They were admitted to most of the medical universities and were licensed under the same laws as men. Any woman with the required uni­versity training or license could become a practitioner. 
Some women practitioners and teach­ers in the Middle Ages surpassed men.-Trotula, a woman teacher at the Univer­sity of Salerno about 1060, wrote a text­book on obstetrics which was the leading text at the time and continued in use for about 600 years. 
Of the four outstanding medical au­thorities in the Twelfth Century, two were women — Hildegard, abbess of a monastery who attained sainthood, and Anna Commena, physician and chief of a large hospital in Constantinople. His­torians of medicine group them with Moses Maimonides, a Jew, and Averroes, an Arab, who were famous in the fields of medicine in that century. 

At one of the earliest dissections of the human body for medical study, a woman, Alessandria Giliani, assisted Mondino, the physiologist who was a teacher at the University of Bologna. Women continued active in medicine throughout the period of the Renais­sance. The gradual withdrawal from the profession began when the universities were closed to women, after the Refor­mation. 
We're not by this article advocating 

N.D. going co-ed—not at least as long as there are so many good girls colleges in existence. 
But the present so-called need for "emancipation of women" just shows how cockeyed this present "modem, pro­gressive world" is. and also how it is centuries behind the Catholic Church, or better, behind Christ who not only ' emancipated woman from the slavery and degradation of Roman paganism but elevated her, raised her, way up on a pedestal by dignifying Mary as the model woman for virgins and mothers at the same time. 
Women, misled by this cockeyed world, are stepping out and, mostly. 
down, mind you, and are asking for "emancipation and equality" with men. They're stepping down and "demanding" an equal place with men at the bars, even in the gutters. 
Let Notre Dame men encourage them to stay where they belong—^way up on that pedestal where Mary is on the Dome. There is better vision up there, better air—and better companions. 
MOTHEB HEBOINES 
Such is the title, "modern, progres­sive" Russia gives now to mothers of large families. (In such cases, we imag­ine, it's the man, or papa, who pays, and pays, and pays.) 
Will our "social planners" who so ad­mire Russia's social system adopt this program favoring large families or will they continue ignorantly, unscientifically and unpatriotically, to discourage large families as the product of "ignorant, unscientific and unpatriotic" parents? 
In the October, 1943, Alumni Religious Bulletin we said: "Within our time, con­ditions will force an about-face and it will become not only moral but patriotic to have large families," Russia has beat­en us to it. 
We hope Russia isn't advocating large families to produce more "cannon fod­der" for a future war (And our boys now fighting should have a voice in the peace arrangements to guarantee that their sons, many or few, won't be can­non fodder a few years from now.) 
In any event, Russia is going to have a great potential army in 18-20 years by her emphasis on large families as pa­triotic. 
Our America will be the victim then of unscientific, unpatriotic "Planned Par­enthooders"—^unless our America wises up and promotes larger families by stressing patriotism and science and also by providing favorable economic conditions and encouragement for larger families. 
lONG-TEBM PROGRAM 
There's a long-term program for alum­

^ ni, with the thanks of your country and, above all, of Christ for your reward. Lay people must do it. Priests are not suitable promoters. 
We know one mother of 11 children, wife of a Notre Dame man, who gives lectures to college and high school girls in the East on the joys of motherhood and-large families. She is the best pos­sible ad for and promoter for large fam-. ilies. One very able Washington, D. C.,'­priest, after hearing her, suitably added: "All I can say is, we priests ^ ought to step out of the'pulpit and put Mrs. B. in." 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Tbia masazine is jinbliabed bi-monthl7 by the UniTenitr of Notre Dame^ Notra Daiaa, Tntfani Eataad 
as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the PostoSce. Notre Dame. TTiiBaiia, nadcr th* act of 
August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the Nadonal Ctttholie Aluanl Fateatian. loznaa E. Azioalrong, '25, EdiioK Vmiiam B. OooUr. '26. ttonngiaj Edttor 
Vol. 22 DECEMBER, 1944 No. 8 

62 Veterans Attend N.D. Under G.I. Bill 
Sixty-two veterans of the present war were enrolled as students under the pro­visions of the G.I. Bill of Rights as the University began a new term on Nov. 5, continuing the accelerated three-term­per-year program which has prevailed locally since 1942, 
Some of the student-veterans were discharged from the armed forces after experiencing actual, and often exciting and terrifying combat. Lt. George Melt­zer, '41, (about whom there is late in­formation under the 1941 news in this issue) was one of these. Other student-veterans were discharged after non-combat service. But the entire group make up a new and realistically "differ­ent" segment in the current life of Notre Dame. 
(It should be stated here, for the im­mediate information of readers now in the armed forces, that full information New Semester Opens Nov. 5 as Civilian Reg­

istration Rises to 936; V-12 Quota is Re­
duced to 1,107, Including N.R.O.T.C. Group. 
about the G.I. Bill of Kights, as it ap­plies to Notre Dame, can be procured by \vriting a note to Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C, director of the C-Hce of Veterans Affairs, which was established on the campus some months ago. In an article in the October ALUMNUS, Father Lane de­scribed, in all the detail available, the workings of his new office.) 
Civilian registration in the University was up 28 per cent this semester as compared vnth the semester which be­gan last July: the figures are 936 and 
730. Of the 936 which started this term, well over half—519—were freshmen in either their first semester or second se­mester of residence. There were 185 soph­omores, 98 juniors, 100 seniors and law students, 27 graduate students, and seven part-time and special enroUees. As has besn the case for several years past, students in considerable numbers are leaving the campus each w^eek at the call of their draft boards. The figures given, therefore, hold good only for the start of the current term. 
Freshmen are this semester occupying Zahm and Cavanaugh halls, vacated by the Navy when its local V-12 program was reduced 40 per cent, effective Nov. 
1. Freshmen continue in Breen-Fhillips. Other civilian hals are Sorin, St. Ed­ward's, and Carroll. Brownson, as was noted in an earlier ALUMNUS, is now partioned off into Universi4y bnsi-• ness offices for the use, to date, of the Office of Veterans Affairs, the Student Accounts' office. Board of Publications, and the General Publicity office. (Sports PubMcity continues in the Athletic Of­fices in Breen-Phillips Hall). 
The naval quota in the student body (including the NROTC contingent) is now 1407. As you've read, the Marine detachment disappeared amid the 40 per cent V-12 cut. V-12 students are now housed in Alunni and Dillon halls only and the "R.O.'s" (considerably enlarged this term) continue in Walsh. The mid­shipmen continue to occupy Badin, How­ard, Morrissey and Lyons. 
A new V-12 executive officer "came aboard" early in this semester to suc­ceed Capt. Walter S. Gabel, USNR, re­cently promoted and assigned to trans­port duty on the West Coast. The new "exec" is Lt. Cmdr. Clarke Olney, USNR, lately in charge of the V-12 unit at Franklin and Marshall College, Lan­caster, Pa. 
Twenty-six seniors and 21 graduate students received their de£;rees at the convocation ceremonies in Washington Hall on Oct. 27, closing the Jdy-Oetober, 1944, semester. The convocation aided a day which had officially begun •whean the seniors assisted at a Mass in Sacred Heart Church, celebrated by Rev. Hnj^ 

V-12 students dance in an appropriate setting in the Navy Drill HoU O'Donnell, C.S.C, president. The tradi­
tional seniors' last visit, conducted by Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., followed, and then a Communion-breakfast in the Dining Hall, at which the seniors were the guests of the University. A recep­tion for the graduates and their families was held in the Rockne Memorial at 4 p.m.' 
The feature of the convocation in the evening was the address of Clarence E. "Pat" Manion, dean of the College of Law. 
Dean Manion, speaking on general, present-day educational systems, as­sailed the teaching philosophy that points out the "how" of things but not the morally important "why." He point­ed out that the Notre Dame student goes out into the world not only with the "know how" but also the "know why." 
• "This is a time that runs sti-ongly to action rather than words," Dean Man­ion said. "At such a time there is an ever-present danger that principles will be swallowed up by expediency. Like all other institutions, higher education runs that great risk today. 
"There is no more destructive agency in all creation than a thoroughly demor­alized and a thoroughly isolated 'know­how' on the loose and disconnected from its stabilizing and moralizing 'know­why'." 
Dean Manion said: "In or out of uni­form the Notre Dame man must do his learning always in his true pei-spective. The ilat surface of chemical formulas, legal conclusions and historical facts are not enough for him. Whether the study is of law or literature, or economics or engineering, of politics or polemics, it is not enough that the student examine the flat surface of the subject. He must see it in relief. From this sort of educa­tion the Notre Dame man emerges not merely -with the 'know-how' but also with the Icnow-why.' 
"It was precisely the 'know-how' when isolated from the 'know-why' that start­ed the materialistic stampede into World War II. The 'know-how' isolated from the 'know-why' reaches its climax in the robot bomb, the mass murder chamber and the death ray," he said. 
Newest instructor in the Department of Aeronautical Engineering at the Uni­versity is An-huh Shieh, of Kiangsu Province, China. 
Mr. Shieh, w^ho is now teaching En­gine Vibrations and Aerodynamics at Notre Dame, came to the University from the Chinese Air Force, U.S.A. Of­fice in Washington, D. C. 
Graduate of Chaio Tung University, Shanghtu, he entered the Chinese Air -Force Technical school at the outbreak 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Lloyd Resigns; Three Promoted 
Jones Named Business Manaser of University 
: Francis W. Lloyd, comptroller of the University since September, 1932, has resigned his position at the University because of ill health, it was announced on November 29, by the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president, Mr. Lloyd's resignation takes eilect December 15. 
"Out of consideration for Frank Lloyd's health," said Father O'Donnell, "I am accepting his resignation. Natu­rally he will be misseed here at the University where for twelve years in a most responsible capacity he has loyally placed his talents and valuable business experience at the disposal of Notre Dame. Altogether grateful for his past service, I wish him a renewal of health in the field of endeavor that he plans to enter." 
Mr. Lloyd, who was bom and edu­cated in England, came to the United States from Livei-pool when he was 23 years of age. He settled in New York and eventually became vice-president of the Commercial Investment Trust Co. there, before coming to Notre Dame. 
It was also announced by Father O'Donnell that Herbert E. Jones, '27, business manager of athletics, has been promoted to the newly created position of business manager of the University, and that William J. Broderick, ex. '27, chief accountant, will become Universi­ty comptroller. John P. Donnelly, '39, di­rector of students' accounts, succeeds Mr. Jones as business manager of athletics, and Miss Anne Stroyna will become act­ing director of students' accounts. All appointments are effective on Dec. 15. 
Mr. Jones, a native of Dixon, 111., has been associated with Notre Dame for the past 23 years. Prior to his enroll­ment as a student, in 1923, he served in 1921-23 as secretary to Rev. James A. Bums, C. S. C-. and to the Rev. Matthev.' Walsh, C.S.C, when each was presi­
of the war against Japan, and there ob­tained an aeronautical background. Se­lected by the Sino-British Indemnity Funds Board in 1939 for advance work, he was assigned to England for further study. However, because of the Euro­pean war, this was changed to Canada, and he entered the University of Toron­to, in 1940. Here he received his M.S. 
In the United States he has studied at the Massachusetts Insitute of Tech­nology, and the California Institute of dent of the University. During his four years as student, Mr. Jones worked part time in the athletic office and following his graduation in 1927, he became assist­ant business manager of athletics. Dur­ing these years he was closely associated 
•with
Knute Rockne in the latter's varied activities. In 1940 Mr. Jones succeeded 

J.
 Arthur Haley, '26, as business man­ager of athletics, and he has become nationally knowTi for his efficient work in connection with the success of the Notre Dame athletic association. Mr. Haley is director of public relations for the University. 


Mr. Broderick, newly appointed comp­troller, is a foi-mer resident of Indianap­olis. He attended Notre Dame, but left in 1925 to assume a position with the Chapman-Price Steel Co., Indianapolis. In 1929 he transferred to the Continen­tal Steel Co., of Kokomo, Ind., and left there in 1932 to take over new duties in the accounting office at Notre Dame. In 1940 he was made chief accountant of the University. 
Mr. Donnelly, a native of Michigan 

City, Ind., has been identified with Notre Dame athletics since his student days. He was manager of the football team in 1937, his senior year at the 'University. Taking the combination six-year A. B.—law coui-se, he received his 
LL.B. in 1940. Since that time he has held positions in the Department of Pub­lic Relations and as secretary to Frank Leahy, director of athletics. In July, 1943, he was appointed director of stu­dents' accounts at Notre Dame. 
Replacing Mr. Donnelly as acting head of the student accounts' department is Miss Anne Stroyna of South Bend, who has been with the department for the past nine years. She has been assistant' to Mr. Donnielly for the past year and a half. 
Technology, Previous to joining the Chi­nese Air Force Office, he was «nployed by Lockheed Aircraft Corporation as an aerodynamicist. 
Prof. Carl C. Wilcox, head of the De­partment of Mechanical Engineering, is back at his post following a leave of absence for special and highly signifi­cant work, in the interests of the nation­al defense in the Yukon. A special story on Professor Wilcox appears elsewhere in this issue. 


Father Carrico Dies on November 21 
Had Spent Nearly All His Priestly Life on Notre Dame Campus as Teacher and Administrator; Father Eugene Burke Delivers Funeral Eulogy. 
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Litt. 

B. '03, Ph.D., director of studies at Notre Dame since 1930, died Tuesday evening, Nov. 21. He was buried from Sacred Heart church on Friday, Nov. 
24. Father Carrico, who was 62, died in the students' infirmary after an illness of several months. He was born in Ray-wick, Ky., and educated in St. Mary's College in that state before entering Notre Dame. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, celebrated the Solemn Requiem Mass, and was assisted by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-presi­dent, as deacon. Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, was sub-deacon, and Rev. Leo R. Gorman, C.S.C, was master of cere­monies. 
One of the key iigures in the Uni­versity administration over a period of years. Father Carrico spent his entire teaching career on the Notre Dame cam­pus, except for a brief period in the early twenties when he was assigned to administrative work at St. Edward's University in Texas. 
Following his ordination in Washing­ton in 1908, Father Carrico returned to Notre Dame to become a teaching mem­ber of the Department of English. In 1913 he became dean of the College of -A.rts and Letters, a position he held un­til 1923, when he was named head of the English Department. In 1930 Father Carrico became director of studies at the University and served in that ca­pacity until his death. For many years he was also chairman of the committee on graduate studies. 
Father Carrico is survived by three brothers: James of Lakeville, Ind.; Al­win, Louisville; and Elbert, Kalamazoo, Mich. 
The Alumni Association can think of no more fitting manner of expressing its great sense of loss than reprinting this brief but appropriate eulogy, "A Good and Faithful Servant," delivered by Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C: 
Trade till I come. Luke XIX, 13. 

"During these days of war, death has become a more than usually familiar fact. Its shadow has spread across the country from one ocean to the other. There is no smallest hamlet that has not felt its chill; that has not sat like Ra­chel 'weeping for her children and would not be comforted, because they are no more.' And the tears have been bitter because they were for the young; for men of promise and hope, cut down be­fore they could gather the first sheaf of a full harvest. Yet the weeping of a Christian people is never as of one who has no hope. For with God 'a thousand years are as a day, and a day as a thou­sand years.' And through the merits of 
REV. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C.S.C 
the death of His Son, He has given to man that divine alchemy of grace which can transform the commonest actions of his day into a treasure which neither moth nor rust can consume or thieves break through and steal. 
"But man must be a 'doer of the word and not a hearer only,' if his years, few or many, are to be profitable for heaven. There is no place in God's plan of sal­vation for the spiritual idler; for the drifter. 'Why stand you here all the day idle' was a reproach to men. 'Go ye into my vineyard, and I will give you what is just.' But for 'every idle word that man shall speak he shall render an ac­count.' For the kingdom of heaven is like to a nobleman who went into a far country to obtain for himself a kingdom and then return. And having summoned ten of his servants, he gave them ten gold pieces and said to them, 'Trade till I come.' Now, my dear friends, those young men, many of whom we are proud to call 'our boys,' who after so short a life, 'died in action,' but whose action was done with the grrace and love of God 
in their hearts, were not found empty handed; for God has made them usurers with His grace, and the tramp of their marching feet, every deed on sea or in the air, has paid eternal dividends when their books were reckoned up. -­
"Father Leonard Carrico 'died in ac­tion.' For nearly forty years he has been about His Father's business, trading un­til the Master should return and ask an accounting. You might write his epitaph in the phrase—^Good and faithfid ser­vant.' He was ever that. His life as a priest has been spent in the service of others. As a teacher, as rector of 'Old College' where he was affectionately dubbed 'Daddy* Carrico, and as director of studies, he gave all his best for others. He mingled less with the worid than almost anyone on the campus. I doubt if he had ever preached a ser­mon in South Bend, or gave a com­mencement address, or attended a con­vention, though he always spoke with distinction; and while thousands of alumni who came under his influence at the University will regret his going, his name is hardly known outside these 
academic circles. 
"I believe there was more written about him in Wednesday evening's.pa­per than appeared about lum all the time of his academic life. This is as he wanted it. For him his job—whatever it was—assumed the importance of a grave religious duty, and whatever sac­rifices were necessary, to fulfill it as perfectly as he could, he made them gladly. He lived in the shadow,, but he shed light about him. And for this God blessed him by sparing him from the honor of reli^ous superior that he might never lose the glory and the joy of the man in the ranks,, the servant rather than the master;-the subject, who obeyed rather than the superior who ruled. In his honest wisdom, I know he appreciated what a blessing that was, and was happy for it. 
"Father Carrico was a man of high intellectual ideals. For a quarter of a century he was a kind of watchdog of our academic standards. I can remember him long before he became director of studies, as a young professor arguing vehemently in faculty meetings against any proposal that semed to be a letting down, even in a little way,' our academic 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
standards. And to the very end, he guarded them jealously. 
"If I might pick out one virtue that Aai4e 3>a4He BooJu 
shone in him more brightly than others I should say it was his passionate love for honesty and fairness. Perhaps it was that natural respect of the Southerner for a man's honor, which he had super-naturalized. But it shone in all he did and said. He could forgive the weak­nesses of men, because they were weak­nesses; but he was intolerant to dis­honesty and unfairness, because he saw in them, perhaps, not a weakness, but an intellectual power deliberately mis­used. He had a hearty contempt for ev­ery form of sham and insincerity. 
"There was something Lincolnian, too, in his love for the common man— the laborer and the farmer and the fish­erman. Maybe it was an elemental hon­esty he saw in them. I believe, at least in his earlier days, he knew more work­men on the campus—carpenters, paint­ers, and electricians—than anyone else did and enjoyed their company and their talk. He could sit in at an aca­demic meeting and lend light and wis­dom to the discussion; but he could sit on a rail fence, too, and talk crops with a farmer, and like it—and the farmer liked it too, for the common bond of in­terest and sympathy it discovered. He was tender in his affection for his fam­ily, and kindly and sympathetic with all who worked with him. They will miss his kind and cheering word, when the monotony of their office work becomes more than usually trying. Commence­ment at Notre Dame without Father Carrico will be strange indeed. 
"But this is his last commencement. And unasual it is that he should bring up the rear of the procession, the place of honor. He finished his course maxima cum lavde; and the citation of his hon­ors briefer and more inclusive, perhaps, than any he had written. 'Well done, good and faithful servant.' Let us, my friends, follow him with the applause of our prayers to the gates of heaven, that he may speedily enter into the joy of His Lord, where there is laid up for him a crown of glory which the Lord, the just Judge, will render to him in that day. May his soul, and the souls of. all the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace. Amen." 
BDOTHER JUST DIES 

Brother Just, C.S.C, 51, a worker on the University's St. Joseph Farm, died on Nov. 20 after a four-week illness. Brother was born as Robert Limbert. He took the habit on Feb. 2, 1924, and was professed Feb. 3, 1928. 
Included in the recently published Five Young American Poets, 19U, is the work of John Frederick Nims, '37, assist­
ant professor of English at Notre Damo. Mr. Nims was co-winner of the Fiske Prize for Poetry at the University of Chicago in 1940. In 1942 he won Poetry Magazine's Harriet Monroe Memorial Award, and in 1943 the Guarantor's Prize. In his theory of poetry preceding his selections, Mr. Nims says: "The limits of poetry, for me, are not determined by faddist dogma nor criti­cal Smalltalk nor the smooth opinion of professors. The limits of poetry are the limits of life itself. . . Any aspect of reality, however common—plane­crash or poolroom or the fall of a wave —can be God's word for terror or lone­liness or exaltation. . . . 
"My preoccupation is not with the surface shimmer of the world, but with the deeper penetration, the meno altrove. Such an interest is likely to result in poetry at times rough and angry, a poetry that will not sound well in college parlor nor on the tongues of school­marms, I don't care. Honesty is the poet's only virtue; he cannot serve God and the mammon-public with its white and sissie ears," 
Mr. Nims, native of Muskegon, Mich., is now completing a Ph.D. in Compara­tive Literature at the University of Chicago. 
Five Young American Poets, 1944, is the third book of the series, and is published by New Directions, Norfolk, Conn. Other poets whose work appears in the volume are Eve Merriam, Jean Garrigue , Tennessee Williams and Alejandro Carrion. 
King of the Pygmies, by Rev. Thomas 
A. Lahey, C.S.C, '06, Saint Anthony Guild Press, Paterson, N. J, $2. Here is another of Father Tom 

Lahey's beautifully written stories for boys (and I suppose the modem young girl is not above a vicarious thrill through the same channel). It has Father Lahey's rare gift of presenting an active, engrossing story for teen­agers which embodies a strong Catho­licity and a rich pattern of education \vithout hampering the entertainment. 
The story revolves around the adven­tures of a Brooklyn lad who goes to Africa to join his father, who hunts an­imals for zoos. Shipwreck, natives, pyg­mies, cannibals, combine in rapid suc­
cession to provide a book without a dull 
chapter. 
Father Lahey, associate editor of The Ave Maria, is no novice in this field. "Classic Children's Story Sermons," "God's Heroes," "God's Workers," and "God's Wonder-World," have brought his same deft touch to popularize sub­jects once buried under the dust of dog­matic teaching. Father Lahey's "Morals of Newspaper Making" impressed a much more adult and skeptical public. 
Late in October a very readable as well as scholarly book. The History of the New Deal, by Basil Ranch, '29, was published. (Creative Age Press, New York, $2.50.) 
First of a two volume set, it covers the Franklin Roosevelt administration fiom 1933 to 1938, which period the au­thor divides into the "First New Deal, 1933-1935," and the "Second New Deal, 1935-1938." The first he sees as a recov­ery-policy era of economic nationalism and scarcity economics, with aid for big business and the farmer. The second is a "reform" era of social legislation, sup­port of labor and growing internation­alism. 
Vividly yet with careful documenta­tion Ranch re-paints the picture of the economic despair and chaos of late 1932 and early 1933 and the efforts of Con­gress and the President to bring about better days through experimentation and attempted reform. By rather scni­pulously avoiding partisanship, the au­thor succeeds in giving us a lively analysis of one of the most critical per­iods since the Civil War, and makes the reader look forward to the forthcoming second volume which will treat of 1938 and after. 
Ranch, brother of Professor Rufus Rauch of our Department of English, taught history at Barnard College fol­lowing graduate studies at Yale and Columbia. On leave for the duration, he is now Lt. Basil Rauch, USNR, on the faculty of the Naval Academy, Annap­olis. His 368-page book will be an addi­tion to the library of any alumnus. (Publisher's address, 11 East 44th St., New York 17, N. Y.)—J. H. Sheehan 
Frank Leahy and the Fighting Irish, by Arch Ward. 
The ALUMNUS has not yet received a copy of this book, but its title and au­thor make it an alumni natural. (G. P. Putnam's Sons, 2 W. 45th St. N. Y. 19, N. Y. $2.75.) 
The Notre Da m e Alumnus 


Prof. C. C. Wilcox Directs Pipeline Project 
Head of Mechanical Ensineering De­partment Returns to Notre Dame After Supervising 1,400 - Mile Construction. 
Returning to Notre Dame in Novem­ber from Canada's Yukon territory, was Carl C. Wilcox, head of the Univer­sity's Department of Mechanical Engi­neering. For the past two years Mr. Wilcox had been on leave of absence engfaged in directing the Canol project —flaying more than 1,400 miles of pipe­line in conjunction with the Alaskan highway project. 
Mr. Wilcox has been active in the American Society of Mechanical Engi­neers for many years, and has been prominently identified with many of the world's largest engineering projects dur­ing the past 25 years. As chief engineer for J. Gordon TurnbuU & Parcel and Sverdrup, engineers for the Canol pro­ject, he constructed a pipeline which stands equal in engineering importance with the Alaska highway; Both have been considered as contributing tre­mendously to development of the last frontier, the Yukon territory. 
A portion of Mr. Wilcox's problem was that of laying a pipeline and build­ing a road through 600 miles of sub-arc­tic wilderness from Norman Wells to Whitehorse and at the same time keep­ing 3,000 barrels of crude oil flowing smoothly through the vast stretch of pipe under wide variations of tempera­ture and terrain. Work was begun in 
1942 when the 35th Engineering Regi­ment started construction of the Canol road during one of the coldest winters on record in the northwest. Laying of the pipe was begun almost simultaneous­ly at the north end of the road at Nor­man WeHs, only 60 miles from the Arc­tic circle. 

In a recent statement to the press Mr. Wilcox explained the difficulties encoun­tered in the project, and the means used to overcome them: "Many troublesome problems demanding individual treat­ment were confronted in carrying the pipeline across the many rivers between the oil wells at Norman and the refinery at Whitehorse. The first of these, and one which is worthy of a story on its own account, was the laying of several miles of pipeline under the Mackenzie river to conduct oil from the north bank to the beginning of the pipeline proper on the south bank. In addition to this crossing, which was a major undertak­ing, there were, in the 600 miles- be­tween the Mackenzie river and White­horse approximately 100 other streams, large and small, which had to be crossed by the pipeline. 
"Some of these were crossed by trenching the pipeline in the bed of the river. Others were crossed by laying the pipe on the bridge at the road crossing, while the one at the Pely river called for the construction of a suspension bridge having 90 foot steel towers, and a 700 foot span." 

Dedication of the refining of petro­leum products, celebrated April 30 at the Whitehorse refinery, marked com­pletion of 22 months of effort by archi­tect engineers, contractors, division and district personnel. On a spot where two years ago there was nothing but snow and ice, there is now one of the most important junctions of the northwest, where the Canol road meets the 1,523 miles of Alaska highway. A taking off place for the road to Tokyo, this Yukon junction has been called a strategic link in the allied drive to victory. 
In addition to the 600 mile' pipeline extending from Norman Wells te White­horse, through which ' crude oO^'^iis pumped, oil, refined at Carcross, is sent for miles on different routes—also boflt under direction of Mr. Wilcox. From Whitehorse to Fairbanks, Alaska; fironi Carcross to Skagway; and ftom Carcross to Watson Lake stretch pipelines through which life blood of our northern de­fenses is pumped. 
Another name synonomous with great engineering feats of the northwest is that of Big. Gen. J. A. O'Connor, a for­mer Notre Dame student, who super­vised construction of the southern sector of the Alaska highway. Whitehozs^ northernmost service command . estab­lished by the United States Army, was his headquarters for the job. A Notre Dame student in 1902-0.3, he was later graduated from West Point Overseas with the 39th and 78th divisions in Worid War I, General O'Connor was in charge of tunneling Corregidor when that fortress was built in the Philippines, and has headed many Aimy engineer^ ing projects in the United States. 

Carl C. lIKlcox (right), heod of the Deportmenl ei Medidnieid bv^Meriag. telb Raymond J. Sdiubmehl, octing deoa of the College of Eagineeiiag. abioai thoee aO­important pipelines in the Yukon for the eoaatmelioB of whSA Violumeii Vnicogc ' recently the chief engineer. '- •-^••­
SECOND FUND CLOSING 

T. A. Beacom '20, New Trustee 
Trustee Officers Reelected; Finance Committee Named. 
THOMAS A. BEACOM, JR., '20 

The autumn meeting of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University was held on Friday and Saturday, Nov. 17 and 18, on the campus. Sixteen men met with the president. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, to consider invest­ments of University funds, and to dis­cuss measures for increasing endowment, and post-war problems of the University. 
The sessions began on Friday after­noon at 2:30 in the Rockne Memorial Lounge, at which time Father O'Donnell spoke to the board, outlining certain post-war plans, as recommended by Notre Dame's Committee on Post-War Problems. Resolutions pertaining to in­vestments and the increase in endow­ments were drawn up, and presented to 
J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations at the University. The meeting was marked by a sympathetic under­standing of, and consideration for, the particular problems facing the Univer­sity at the present time. 
After the discussions, the board elected a new member to replace the late George O'Brien, choosing Thomas A. Beacom, Jr., vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago. Mr.. Beacom was grad­uated from Notre Dame in 1920, and from the Harvard School of Law in 
and two children, live in Winnetka, Chicago suburb. The board re-elected Byron V. Kan­aley, of Chicago, as its president; Peter 
C. Reilly, of Indianapolis, ^nce-president; and C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis., treasurer. Mr. Kanaley appointed E. 
M. Morris, of South Bend, as chair­man of the finance committee. Mr. Mc­Canna is a member of the committee by virtue of his office as board treasurer. Other members appointed were John C. Tully, LaGi-ange, HI., William J. Cor­bett, Chicago, and Bernard J. Voll, of South Bend. 
A luncheon in the trustees' dining hall preceded the meeting. In the evening, a dinner was served. On Saturday after­noon, board members and their wives were the guests of Father O'Donnell at the Northwestern-Notre Dame game on the campus. 
George W. Strake, Houston, and I. 

A. O'Shaughnessy, St. Paul, attended their first board meeting. Other mem­bers who were present included: Ed­ward J. Doyle, Chicago; John J. O'Brien, South Bend; Mr. Reilly; Mr. Voll; Joseph A. LaPortune, Tulsa; Mr. Cor­bett; Walter Ducan, LaSalle, LI.; Mr. McCanna; Mr. Kanaley; Terence Cos-grove, Los Angeles; Mr. Tully; Charles 
T. Fisher, Detroit; John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, and Mr. Morris. 
On Dec. 31 the Second Annual Alumni Fund will close. There has been, as fre­quently reported in the ALUMNUS, en­couraging respose, but nothing about which we can be too proud. In propor­tion to the benefits which Notre Dame can derive from this alumni support, we should be somewhat chagrined at the lack of participation by alumni, even more than by the nominal amount con­tributed (with the. exception of several generous gifts which brought both total and average up). 
If you haven't sent in a contribution, send it quickly before the 473 competing appeals, of which we are very.conscious, wipe out that budget. 


C{|rtstmas (greetings 
For thousands of alumni, and alum­ni families, there are, this Christmas, the material obstacles of war and suf­fering, of hard work which permits no holiday, of absence that is mutually sorrowing. 
But for those same men and those same families of theirs, Christmas is still the day on which the Prince of Peace was born to the Queen of Peace. 
It is in the spirit of that Christmas that we wish you its blessings, with the added hope that the New Year will bring with it restoration and in­crease of happiness by the will of God. 
The Alumni Office 
ap *P ^* f* *«' "T* *T* *7* *?* *•* T* 'T* T* T^ 

1923.  He  has  been  active  in  the  Chi­ Two of the newer la; trustees, L A. O'Shaughnessy (left). SL Paul, and George  
cago Community Fund for  many years,  W. Strake, Houston, confer  with Father Hugh O'DonnelL president  at  the  annual  
and. is  a. former  president  of  the  Eco­ fall meeting of the trustees on NOT. 24. This wap the first trustees' meeting for both  
nomic Club of Chicago. He and his wife.  Mr. O'Shaughnessy and Mr. Strcdce.  




Notre Dame Men Are Leaders in NCGS 
36 Former Students Have Key Positions in Providing Service Each Month for Six Million Members of the Armed Forces. 
BY DANIEL CULHANE, '23* 

From the Aleutians to the malarial jungles of India, Notre Dame men are performing valorous deeds on the fields of battle. Behind reports of their "con­spicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of their lives above and beyond the call of duty," lie untold sacrifices that our 
FORREST G. COTTON 

boys' have made in answering the call of their country. Notre Dame is proud of its sons, who, by their courage, have re­flected glory upon their Alma Mater. 
Not only on the field of battle, but also on the home front, Notre Dame men are directing their efl'orts toward speeding 
* Daniel CuUianc, proKnim director of the National Catholic Community Ser\*ice, was gr<idu­ated from Notre Dame in 1923 with a bachelor of philosophy depree, and in 1926 received his master's decree in education and boy tniidance from the Graduate School. A zealous worker in behalf of supervised youth programs, Mr. Culhane has been a leader in this field for almost 20 years. He served as director of boys' activi­ties for the Union League Foundation for Boys* Clubs in Chicago for many years and was also director of the Chicago Boys' Clubs, supervising and promoting educational and recreational pro­grams for thousands of Chicago's young men. As program director of NCCS since 1941, Mr. Culhane is in charge of promoting varied club activities for more than 6,000,000 servicemen, servicewomen and war production workers who visit NCCS clubs monthly. Active in many social welfare organizations, he is a member of the Board of Trustees of the National Catholic 
School of Social Service in Washington, D. C. 
DANIEL CULHANE 

the day of victory. One of the many pa­triotic home front organizations in which they are serving is the National Catholic Community Service, a USD member agency,-, which has called upon 36 Notre Dame men to assume key positions. 
NCCS, as the organization is familiar­ly known, operates more than 500 USD clubs throughout the country for service­men, servicewomen and war production workers, regardless of race or creed. In addition to the clubs in this country, clubs for servicemen and servicewomen are operated by NCCS afiiliates in Kome, Florence, Naples, Cairo and Suva, Fiji Islands. Designated in 1940 as the offi­cial agency of the Catholic Church to meet the spiritual, social, recreational and educational needs growing out of World War II, NCCS provides unstinted service to approximately 6,000,000 guests who visit its clubs monthly. 
Fully cognizant of the fact that spiri­tual help to the fighting forces is as im­portant to their salvation as material weapons, NCCS aids in the work of .A.rmy and Navy chaplains by arranging field Masses and Communion breakfasts, and by providing a wide assortment of religious articles for distribution to members of the armed forces. In this capacity, NCCS, through its Program Department and Religious Consultant, works in close cooperation with Notre Dame's former president. His Excellency John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, of the Military Ordinariate. To date, approximately 26 million religious articles have been dis­tributed to those in the armed forces, both 
JAMES S. MITCHEU. 

here and abroad. The total includes over two and a half million rosaries, over seven hundred thousand scapular med­als, three million missals, and thousands of assorted pamphlets, medals and prayer books. 
Because of their extensive experience in the field of planned recreation and social welfare work, former Notre. Dame men now serving with the organization have been able to contribute much to­ward making the war service record of NCCS an outstanding one that will long be remembered after our victory is won. 
Prominent among the Notre Dame alumni who have been affiliated with NCCS is Frank E. Cane, a member of the graduate class of '33, who served as acting director until last month. Mr. Cane formerly served as field secretary and later assistant executive director of the Knights of Columbus Life Bureau, and as an instructor of the Knights of Columbus Group Leadership Schools, conducted courses at leading Catholic universities throughout the country. As acting director of NCCS, Mr. Cane brought to his work wide experience in the organization's and USO activities, from many successful months spent as regional supervisor for the states of Cal­ifornia, Washington, Oregon, Arizona and Nevada. 
His duties as head of t-he organization have been assumed by another former Notre Dame man, James S. Mitchell, di­rector of field operations. J\Ir. Mitchell, who did post-graduate work in Boy Guidance in the Graduate School in 1926, joined the staif of NCCS in 1942 as a club director in San Diego, Calif. An alumnus of St. Thomas College in Scranton, Pa. (now the University of Scranton) Mr. Mitchell has had almost 20 years experience in the.field of social work. 

One of Notre Dame's greatest foot­ball stars, Forrest G. Cotton, class of '23, is serving as regional supervisor of NCCS clubs located in four eastern states and in the nation's capital. Mr. Cotton, who has the distinction of being the first club director employed by NCCS, has been with the organization since 1941. Before joining the staff, he served successively as athletic coach at St. Ambrose in Davenport, la., and as assistant football coach at Catholic Uni­versity in Washington, D. C. 
Another Notre Dame alumnus, affili­ated with NCCS, is Francis J. McGah­ren, class of '34, who is assistant to the director of field operations at headquar­ters in Washington, D. C. He has been affiliated with NCCS since 1941, when he joined the organization as a club di­rector in Petersburg, Va. Mr. McGahren, who received a Ph.D. degree from Co­lumbia University, where he specialized in gi-oup work, formerly ser\-ed as su­pervisor of the Catholic Youth Organi­zation for the Catholic Charities in the diocese of Brooklyn, N. Y. WTiile direc­
tor of the USO club in Petersburg he organized a "Notre Dame Club" for "more than 50 Notre Dame alumni, who were stationed at nearby army posts and naval bases. Many similar alumni groups have been organized in other USO-NCCS clubs near large militarj­installations. 
Philip J. Carey, who attended Notre Dame in 1937, is regional supervisor at­tached to the Chicago NCCS regional office. Joining the organization in 1941 as a club director, he now supervises USO clubs in the middle west. Another former Notre Dame man, Terrence Hal­loran, familiar to the campus from 1927 to 1929, is regional supervisor for the West Coast, with offices in San Francis­co. Mr. Halloran, like Mi-. Carey, joined the staff of NCCS in 1941. 
Serving in supervisory capacities also, have been Joseph P. Hill, '29, Edmund Radzuk, '31, C. Glynn Fraser, '34, and Vincent J. Little, '36. 
A large number of Notre Dame alum­ni are serving as USO-NCCS club direc­tors in various sections throughout the country. Theirs is the job of providing "A Home Away From Home" to the thousands of uniformed guests who avail themselves of the clubs' services weekly. From arranging a sightseeing 
FRANCIS J. MCGAHREN 

tour for a group of servicemen to find­ing living quarters for a GI's newly-arrived wife, USO-NCCS directors stand ready to serv'e. Under their supervision varied club programs, from religious ex­ercises to wild-west rcdeos—from wiener roasts to classes in law and calculus, are offered to all thofe whom NCCS is privileged to welcome into its clubs. 
Notre Dame graduates serving as NCCS directors, and tlie cities in which they are located, are Rodney Shaugh­nessy, '24, Champaign, 111.; Charles W. JIaitin, '27, Lebanon, Pa.; Austin J. Holland, '28, Falmouth, Mass.; William 
A. Butler, '29, Laurel, Jliss.; Robert A. Golden, '32, Patchogue, N. Y.; John H. Clark, '34. Sharon, Pa.; and George L. Haithcock, '39, Tullchoma, Tenn. Other graduates who have been a-'lSliated with NCCS as directors include William F. Greavy, '24, Philip J. Coyle, '29, John E. Ryan, '32, William A. Brooks, '34, Albert 
G. Phaneuf, '34, and Louis J. Reilly, '40. 
Former students now sei-ving as NCCS club directors, are Thomas E. Hopkins who attended Notre Dame from '26 to '28, who is in charge of the club in Mont­gomery, Ala.; William J. Knowles, '27, Kansas City, Mo.; Charles J. Vaughan, '29, to '32, Eoekford, HI.; George A. Bar­ber, '38, Morganfield, Ky.; James M. Maloney, '39, Ypsilanti, Mich.; and Rob­ert A. Van Kirk, '39, Battle Creek, Mich. 
Those who have served in the past with NCCS as club directors include Maurice T. Andrews, '15, Thomas A. Riley, '22 to '23, Cleve W. Carey, '33, Joseph G. Graham and Gerard A. Pur­cell, both of whom attended Notre Dame in 1935, and Lacy P. Zenner, '39 to '42. 
With increasing numbers of wounded servicemen and discharged veterans com­ing home, there is a real opportunity for Notre Dame men to render a worth­while service to these returning heroes by helping them to make a normal ad­

. justment to civilian life. Along with the most scientific medical care being administered to our boys, trained hospi­tal workers are doing exceptional work in developing their spirit. It is up to us, who will meet more and more of these discharged veterans in our every-day contacts, to help them maintain their high morale and self-confidence. 
We must remember that the return­ing serviceman does not want sympathy and we must guard against misdirected kindness, which, so often, can undo in a very few minutes all the good done for these men in government hospitals. The returning hero does want an opportunity to become a self-supporting, self-reliant citizen, and it is our job to make sure that he gets it. In helping him to resume his normal place in the community, we should encourage his association with ci^^lian friends and participation in ci­vilian groups known to him before he entered the service. We must work with him to see that opportunity for employ­ment is his—and this indicates cur read­iness and ability to refer him to the proper agencies and organizations now being established to care for his partic­ular needs. 
MIDSHIPMEN CLASS FINISHES 

Graduation and commissioning cere­monies for the sixth class of midshipmen to finish at the Notre Dame Naval Re­serve Midshipmen School were conducted in the Navy Dxill Hall on Oct. 26. Vice Admiral Randall Jacobs, chief of the Bureau of Naval Personnel, Washing­ton, D. C, was the chief speaker for the occasion. 
The seventh class of midshipmen be­gan their four-month training period in early November. Most of the newcomers came from V-12 training programs at various schools throughout the country. 
Eliion, Alien G., ex. '47, S 2yc, Hampdes-Sydneor 

College, Hnmpden-Sydney, Va. EUerke. JaMC* E.. ex. '48. Bks. 48. B»G, N.A.­SPECIAL NOTE: Space restrictions make it ncccss:3r>' *o Piint in this i^snc only r.C. Memphis. Tenn. 

ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN* 
a. pordon of the names of ''additional 
5.639 
former Notre Dame students are, or have lately been, in the armed forces in World War II according to Alumni Office records as of Nov. 15, 1944. 
Abeli, Welton K.. ex. '47, Pfc , TJSMC, Co. B.. Pit 1. O. C. Bn. Schools Regt. T.C.. F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune, N. G. 
Adams. Richard W., e-x. '48, S 2jc, Box 7, U. S. 
Sub Base, New London, Conn. 
Anderson, Leroy W., ex. '48. S 2yc Bks. G-7, Co. D-1, Crew No. 2641, Sec. 2, N.T.C., Gulfport. Mios. 
Andrews. Wallace J., ex. '47, Midshipmen School. 820 Tower Court. Room .803, Chioigo. III. 
Bach, Robert H., ex. '46. Midshipmen, 621-A. Johnson Hall, Columbia University Midshipmen School. N. Y. 0. 
Ens. Norbert J. EUrott, ex. '41 (His death was reported in the October' 'Alumnus") 
Bellinger, James E., Jr., '42, Pvt. 2nd A. Ord., Inspection Team "C", Camp Campbell, Ky. Bennett, Vernon B., ex. '46, Midshipmen School, 

Tower Hall, Chicago, III. Benning. Richard F., '44, Ens., N.T.S. (I). Holly­wood Beach Hotel, Hollywood. Fla. Bems, Raymond J., ex. '47, Midshipmen School, Johnson Hall, New York 27. 
* A skeletonized overseas address is given only as an indication of the theater of war in which the man is serving; in no case is the overseas address as given here sufficient for the purpose of sending mail. Censorship regulations do not permit complete overseas addresses to be printed. 
It should also be noted that service addresses within the United States are merely the latest available in the Alumni Office and are printed largely in the hope of bringing friends together. In many cases, such addresses will of course be actually far out of date. 
 senice men" on file in the Atamni Office. 
Besenfeldcr, James J., ex. '46, Midshipmen School. Johnson Hall, New York 27. Bienkowski, Stanley J., ex. '47, Midshipmen School, John Jay Hall, New York 27. Birkholz, Rndolph E., ex. '48, Pvt., USHC, Ca 
A. 5th Trng, Bn., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Black, Darrcll L.. ex. '47, Pfc, USMC. Co. E. 1st Pit., O.C. Bn. School Regt. T.O., FJI.F., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Blackmun. William H., ex. '47, BIdg. 2554, C.R.T.C., Troop B, 2nd Regt.. Fort Riley, Kan. 
Blasio, Dominic, ex. '48, S 2yc, U. S. Navy Gun Capt.. Co. A-l-Bks. G-4. USNTC, A.G.S., Gulf-port, Miss. 

Lt. John P. Denney, Jr., '42 (His death was reported in the October "Alumnus") 
Cahill, John D., ex. '46, Midshipman, Sec. 6, Notre Dame. Ind. Cain, Max G., ex. '48, S 2/c, cyo FPO. San Francisco, Calif. 
Callahan. Clinton, C , Jr., ex. '47. AyS., Co. C, Pit. 1, Univ. of Rochester, Rochester, N. Y. Callahan, Thomas H., '38, Lt. (jg), cyo FPO. 
San Francisco, Calif. Calovich, Francis J.. Jr., ex. '48, S lye, cyo FPO. 
N. Y. C. 

Danehy, Paul E., ex. '48. S 2yc, cyo FPO. San 
Francisco. Dancr. James C . '40. Daniels. George W.. ex. '48. S 2yc. AJI.M., 
14-A-Bks. 42, N.A.T.T.O.. Norman. Okla. Oauphine, Neil M.. ex. '48. S lyc, Bks. 29-c. USNAS. Peru, Ind. Ocbitelto, Francis J., ex. '46, Midshipmen School. 820 Tower Court. Chicago. DeGabriele. Vernon F.. ex. '47, AyS, Co. C, V-12 Unit. University of Rochester, Rochester 3. 
N. Y. Del Camp, Michael S., ex. '47, USNROTC, Bks. 19, Northwestern University, Evanston, III. 
Detweiler, Paul B., ex. '47, S 2yc. Co. 1512. O.G.U., USNTS, Great Lakes, III. 
Esser. Carl F.. '35. Ens., cyo FPO, N. Y. C. 
Erans, John E., e-x. '47, S 2yc, Bks. 503, LS-S­8-1, Eervice Schools Com., USNTC, Great Lakes, III. . . , 
Evans, John M., ex. "47, S 2yc, A.O.M. School. Bks. 23, G 17 DD. Naval Air Technical Train­ing Center. Memphis 15, Tenn. 
Emtkisani, Ray D.. ex. '47, Pfc, USHC. 0>. C. 6th Pit. O. C. Bn.. Schools Regt, T.C., F.M.F.. Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Frieae, Riduud R., ex. '48. S 2yc. 763-39-92. A.T.B.. Wei. Rec. Hall. Little Creek. Va. Fritz, Edward G., e.x. '4T. S lyc. COL 4L-45. 
USNTS. Wright Junior College. CHiicago. Fanaan, John R.. ex. '47, USHC. Fricdaun. Paal H., ex. '47, S 2yc, Camp Brad­
ford, Norfolk 11, Va. Foley. Janws J., '41, Ist Lt , Hedical Ckirps. 
U.S. Army. 
Foley. ThoBuu A., ex. '45, S lyc, P. O. Box T. Submarine Base. New London. Conn. 
Gabuda, Lawrence B., ex. '47. AyS, Co. E. Crosby Hall, Navy V-12 Unit, University of Rochester. Rochester 3. N. Y. 
GaUacher, Jaaca B.. '31. cyo FPO. N.Y.a GalladHr, Thaaus J., Jr., ex. '47, Ay9. Co. 1792. 29 Regt. 52nd Bat, Great Lakes. III. GaasieHn, Edwin A., '33, Lt (is) cyo FPO. 
San Francisco. Gcddes, John J.. '32, L t (jg). Geia, Jalin B., '41, Ens., cyo FPO, San Francisco. Gainaa,' Jlaik C, ex. '47. AyS. Hedical Student. 
706 S.- Wolcott. Chicago. 
Lt William R. Wiicht, ex. '4Z (His death was reported in the October "Alumnus") 

Gaion, Joseph E.. e.x. '47, S 2yc, Sec SlO-1. Bks. 503 L.P., Ser. Sch. Command, USNTC. Great Lakes, III. 
Gannion, Ralph A., e-x. '47. F lyc, cyo FPO. 
N. Y. C. • . u •....• . 

Hackman. Richard Joseph, ex. '44, Sgt. cyo Postmaster. N. Y. C. 
Haston, Meredith E., ex. '48, S 2yc. Sec 610-5, 405 LP, Service Schools Command. USNTC. Great Lakes. 111. .--•.. 
Hutchison, Jerome O., ex. '48, S 2yc Sec 1-10­1, Bks. 506, L.P., Service School Command, USNTC, Great Lakes, 111. 
Hald. Gnnnar Carl, ex. '47, Pfc, USHC, Co. B. Pit. 3, School Bn., T.C., FJC-F., 0.03at . Camp Le Jeune, N. C. 
Hanlon, Tbomas F., ex. '47, S 2yc, c/o FPO, 
N. Y. C. 

Hannak. Georxe S.. ex. '47. Hedical Student V-12, University of California. 2519 Ridge Road (B). Berkeley, Calif. 
(Continued on page 12) 

SfudUflU AUuiuU 
TJENRY F. BARNHART, '23, is the 
new vice-president in charge of the Shovel and Crane Division of the Lima Locomotive Works, Lima, Ohio, having been promoted from a position as man­ager of the Shovel and Crane Division. 
s'HEi^Y F. BARNHART, '23 
Following a campus career of unusual accomplishment—the grand knightship of Noire Dame Council,. Knights of Col­umbus, was just ones of his many activ­ities—Henry remained at Notre Dame for a year to teach English and receive his M.A. • .. \v.;,. 

He. joined the Lima or^nization in 1928 as assistant sales manager. In 1936 he was made:general sales manager of the Shovel-iand Crane Division and in 1943 manager of the division. 
JOHN W. SCALLAN, '25, editor-in­" chief of the Dome in 1923-24 and of the, Scholastic in 1924-25, was recently elected a vice-president of the Pullman-Standard Car Manufacturing Co., Chi­cagoi'Heis in''charge of sales of trans­pqiitatipn equipment and war materiel in Chicago-and the Middle West. 
Jack has been with Pullman-Stand­ard for 18 years, having joined the com­pany in 1926 as a sales agent. Six'years later he was made sales manager of the western district, and in 1942 he became assistant vice-president. 
Bom in Cincinnati, Jack came to Notre Dame in his earlier years, became a 'Hifer" and in his college days was one of the select few to reside in Wash­ington Hall. He has many a Notre Dame 
JOHN W. SCALLAN, '25 

tale to tell his two sons, James, 6, and John, 2, in Evanston, HI., suburb of Chicago, where the Scallans reside. 
PATRICK S. MCDOUGALI^ '29 

PATRICK S. McDOUGALL, '29, re­
porter on the Detroit Free Press was the co-author of an article in the Aug. 26 Saturday. Evening Post on Christo­pher E. Stein, noted Detroit judge. As­sociated with Pat in doing the article was Warren Olivier, associate editor of the Post. . . . 
Pat has been on the Free Press ever since he came to Detroit from Alpena, Mich. Of late,'he's, been assigned to Re­corder's Court and to Police. Active in the Newspaper Guild, he's also a mem­ber of the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists. 


ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN 
Cnntiniied from Page 11) 

Huner. Cuter B., ex. '48, H.H. 3jC. e/o FPO. 
N. y. c. Hsnier. Frederick A., ex. '47. Pfc, USMC. O.G.S., Quantico. Va. Harrican. J*hn H., e.x. '46, Room 625, Abbott Hall, Chicaso II. Hart. Bakert D., ex. '47, S 2ye. A.O.M. 14A45, NATTC, Bks. S72, Norman, Okla. Baker. John P., Jr., ex. '48. cjo FPO, San Francisca Haafe, Francis J.. e.\-. '46, V-12, 270 Shore Road Drive, Chicaso. 
Beam, William G., '27, Ct>l., 1010th AAFBU (B). Atlantic City, N. J. 

Imkaden, John B., ex. '46, Med. Student, John Hopkins University, 1005 North Broadway, Baltimore, Hd. 
Jadoan. Jaim L.. ex. '47, Pfc., USHC. cjo FPO. San Francisco. Jackion, Paal D., ex. '46, Midshipman, Tower Hall, Chicago 11. 
Jahn J. Jaeofca; ex. '47, S 2/c, Sec. T 10-3. Bks. 606 US., Service School Command. USNTC, Great Lakes, III. 
Jahnstan, Thomas L;, ex. '47, S 2yc Co. B, Grew 2703. BIdB. 5G. USNTC, Gulfport. Miss. 
Jones, Babert S., ex. '46, Midshipman, Room 1020, Tower Halli 820 Tower Court. Chicago. Janes. Thomaa D., ex. '48. USMC. Sea School 
2, San Diego 41, Calif. 


Klees, Jahn A., '42. Navy Arlington Annex. 
Klinser, Jahn E., Jr., ex. '47, Midshipman, Cor­nell Midshipmen School, Ithaca, New York. Kain, Hanr R.. ex. '46, Cadet, Co. A-1, USMA, 
Iffest Point. N. Y. 
Kane. Paal W., ex. '46, Pf c USMC, Co. D, No. 3, O. C.:Bn., Schools Regt, T.C., F.M.F., Camp LeJeune. N. C 

Kaskrx, Ridurd J., ex. '46, Ens., Fort Pierce. Fla. 
Kathman, John H., Jr., ex. '47, Co. E. Room 220, Crosby Hall, University of Rochester, Rochester 3, N. Y. 
KeOy. Edcar B.. ^ei. '47, Pfc USMC. Co. D, 3rd Pit, O.O.S. Bn.. Schools Rest. T.C., FJtF. , Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
KeBy. Laarence F.. ex. '46, S 2/c, O.G.U., Great Lakes. III. 
LaDoke. Anthony, ex. '36, Sgt., Transportation Corps O.C.S., New Orleans. I*Far«e. Raymond A., '43, Ens., Naval Train­ing Station. NewTort, R. I. Lansdsn. Robert JL, ex. '47, S 2/c, Class 17-45, Hospital Corps School, Farragut, Idaho. Lawler, Thomas G., '30, F l;c. cto FPO, San Francisco, C&lif. 
MacdaneH, Robert A., ex. '44, Lt, LAAF, Laredo, Tex. Madden. Jerome E.. '31, cjo Postmaster, San F^rancisGO. ­Martin, Frands P.,.cx. '46, A/S, V-12 (medical student), Bellevue Medical School, 477 28th St, 
N. Y. a Martin. William L.. ex. '46. Stiate University 
of Iowa, V-12 Unit, Iowa City, Iowa. (Continued on Page 14) 

And now Pat's been named to the facility of Mercy College, Detroit, to teach journalism. Among his innovations there is the installation of phones so that his students can take stories from members of the working press and re­write them. 
This was the first time in history that Navy and Army both defeated Notre 




Irish Complete Successful Season 
Dame in the same year. The following week the Irish bounced 

young inexperienced Players 
back against Northwestern in the annu­Beat Seven Collese Teams al classic, winning by a 21-0 score. Five of the Notre Dame regulars were on the 
By J. Walter Kennedy, '34 
injury list, but the Irish found a new 
BULLETIN 
For the record: With the 28-7 defeat oi Great Lakes on Dec. 2. Notre Dame achieved a season's record oi eight won. two losL Altogether outplayed in the first 20 minutes oi the iinale. the Irish exploded to score their four touchdowns against lim MeUo 4 Co. It was the first N. D. victory in iour Grecrt Lakes games. 
This is being written on the eve of the Great Lakes game, because Bill Dooley's deadline prohibits waiting over for the result of the game on the mor­row. 
However, win or lose tomorrow, the Notre Dame team of 1944 has had £ highly successful season. Undefeated in intercollegiate competition, the Irish have lost only to Army and Navy to date. Seven college teams have lost to coach Ed McKeevgr's "bobby socks bri­
gade." 
Notre Dame's success on the gridiron this fall can be attributed to a magnifi­cent coaching staff. Ed McKeever, Hugh Devore, Adam Walsh, Clem Crowe, Wally Ziemba, Jake Kline, Creighton Miller and volunteer coach Lt. (jg) Carey Brewbaker, USNE, at Notre 
Dame with the V-12 unit, have done a remarkable job with the material at hand. 
Starting the season mth but five let­termen. Captain Pat Filley, Bob Kelly, John Adams, George Sullivan and Frank Dancewicz (Frank Szymanski, another monogram man, joined the squad after the sixth game) the outlook was any­thing but bright. But the collection of 16, 17 and 18-year-olds responded well to the teaching of the Irish coaches, and with a few games tucked away, they began to perform with unlooked-for ability. ' 
Constant lineup changes marked the entire season, with McKeever and his assistants striving always to field the 11 best men, regardless of past reputa­tions and performances. As a result more players will receive monog^rams this year than any team in recent his­
tory. 
The Irish started off well, romping 
over Pittsburgh in the opener by a 58-0 
score. Bob Kelly, scoring four touch­
downs, sparked the Irish in the vnn, and 
experts began calling the Irish "the 
greatest in history." But the coaching staff knew that they were far from a great team, and before the next game against Tulane, there were lineup switches. 
Tulane was turned back by a 26-0 score at Notre Dame, Kelly and Chick Maggioli spoiling the debut of the southerners in the midwest. The next week the Irish made their first visit to Boston, and ran wild against Dartmouth in the first game between the two schools. When Notre Dame finished on top by a 64-0 score, word was passed around that the Irish "really had it." 
Once again there were lineup changes, 
the coaches finding faults that escaped 
the newspapermen and spectators. The 
following week against Wisconsin, the 
Irish were scored upon for the first time, 
but they had scored early, and won hand­
ily by a 28-13 score. 
Illinois fell next before the Irish, but not before a scare was thrown into the South Benders. Notre Dame needed all of the Irish luck they could get to win over a fighting, "hot" Illinois team. Behind in the last quarter, the winning marker came when Frank Dancewicz tossed a pass to Bob Kelly, who lateraUed to Chick Maggioli, and the latter dashed 50 yards to give Notre Dame a 13-7 vic­tory. 
Undefeated, the Irish next met Navy, 
potentially the best team in the land. 
Although Notre Dame played its best 
ball to date, the star-studded Middies 
won handily, inflicting a 32-13 defeat on 
the South Benders. The bubble of sup­
posed Irish greatness was burst, and, in 
the calm after, the defeat, it was ap­
parent that Notre Dame of 1944 was a 
good college team, but not in the same 
class as the service elevens. 
This fact was definitely brought out the following week in New York, when a great Army team handed Notre Dame its worst defeat in history, winning by a 59-0 score. Much has been said and written about that game Coach Mc­Keever best summed up the true story, when he said two weeks later: "The primary object in a football game is to score. That is what we tried to do. We could have kept the score down by play­ing defensive ball after Army assumed a lead, but that is not the way Notre Dame teams play. We tried to score, and, in doing so, we aided Army in mn­ning up a tremendous total of points." 
star in 155-pound Jim Brennan, Milwau­
kee V-12 trainee, who scored two touch­
downs in the win. 
Entering the Georgia Tech game, played in Atlanta, as an 8-5 underdog. Notre Dame came through with an upset win over the favored southerners. Play­ing their best game of the year, the Irish scored early, kept Tech in check through­out and added two second half toucn­downs to win by a 21-0 score. Little Jim Brennan again sparked the attack with another two touchdown soiree, and Bob Kdly, recovered from a I ^ injury which hampered him during the previous three games, ran with his early season speed and agility.. 
SECOND IN NCAA 
By Jack McGrone 
Facing the stiffest collegiate competi­tion in the Midwest, Notre Dame's cross­country squad proved their superior quality as Bill Tully led them to second place in the NCAA champioBships at Blast Lansing, Mish., on Nov. 25. Drake University scored 38 points to the Blue and Gold's 64 to win the team title, while Ohio State's harriers finished tiiivd with 76. 
Tully ramped home in fifth place fol­lowed by teammates Ken Muening, Bob Prosche, Tom McGuire, and Steve Pro­vost. Prosohe negotiated the rugged four-mfle eousse in fine style, showing continued improvement and Gene Slat­tery likewise ran a strong race. 
The NCAA meet closed the season for the hiU-and-dalers,,who ^^now enjoy­ing a brieak' before ..donning- the si^ed shoes again for the indoor schedule, ­
Track coach Elvin R. "Doc" Bbndy was confronted-in September with his usual tough opponents witiibut the ser­vices of a single'man with previous'col­legiate experience. Inaugurating tfie "200-iniIe dub" to condition his squad. Handy woriced patiently, develo^Hng and instructing his ehaiges. ' The boys: im­proved weekly, tiie.>esalt of daily-appli­cation, and came home last week-b$i^­ing with theif. success in the Nationals. They had come a long -w^y fmm. the meager beginnings two ' months before and their exedlent showing; i^'a tribi^ to their spirit and to "plain hirdS^^ on the part of both the runnen t£^ ­selv6s and flieJr popidar coach/-'^•'^'^^ 

BASKETBALL, 1944-45 

Release oi the 1944-4.5 Noti-e Dame basketball schedule, an ambitious card of 20 engagements, highlights cage news of the lecent past, 'ihe docket, which in­cludes three dates in the Chicago Sta­dium and a jaunt to Madison Square Garden in New York City for the peren­nial tilt with New York University, opens in the Notre Dame fieldhouse, Dec. 6, against Kellogg Field of Battle Creek, Mich. The schedule follows: 
The schedule follows: Dec S—Kellotre Field (here) Dec 9—Miami U. (here) Dec 12—Alma ColIeEe (here) Dec 16—WiBCOnsin (there) Dec 19—Lorss College (here Dec 23—Iowa (there) Dec 27—Paidue (here) Jan. 2—Purdue (there) Jan. 6—Great Lalces (there) Jan. 10—Iowa Pre-FUgfat (there) Jan. 16—^Marauette (here) Jan. 20—Great Lakes (Chicago Stadium) Jan. 27—Kentucky (Louisville) Feb. 2—De Paul (Chicago Stadium) Feb. 3—^Northwestern (Chicago Stadium) Feb. 10—N.Y.U. (Madison Sq. Garden) Feb. M—Iowa Pre-Flight (here) Feb. 17—Maranette (there) Feb. 27—^Northwestern (here) Mar. 6-^>etroit (here) 

Clem Crowe, '26, on leave or absence from Xavier University in Cincinnati, took over the direction of the 1944-45 team, replacing Ed "Moose" Krause,'34, •on leave of absence from the University as a lieutenant in the Marine Corps. 
Not a single monogram winner of the 1943-44 season remains and only two men, Tom Kennedy and Frank Gilhooley, who were on the squad last year. Two likely prospeets are Bill Hassett (brother of Buddy, former major league first sacker), who performed at Georgetown for one year, and Floyd Magnusson, who played at Iowa. 
The present squad will be augmented by a number of additional men with the end of the football season. Chief among these are Bill O'Connor, Joe Gasparella, Tom Guthrie, John Dee and George Benigni. 
CAP EDWARDS DIES 

W. Howard "Cap" Edwards, '10, South Bend, one of the best kno\vn of all Notre Dame football figures, died on N»v. 2.3 in South Bend. He had been in ill health since 1935, when he suffered severe injuries in an automobile accident in the East. 
Playing on the football-teams of 1908 and 1909, Cap captained the latter, ac­quiring a nickname which identified him during aH the remainder of his life. The 1909 team was unbeaten, numberimg among its victims Michigan, in the last game played between Michigan and Notre Dame unta 1942. 
After his graduation in 1910, Cap played, along with the famous Jim Thorpe, on the Canton, O., Bulldogs, pro team, and later, as player-coach with the Cleveland Indians, another profes­sional group. He remained active with the latter team until after 1926. Both in college and in the professional field, Cap played chiefly as a tackle. And, at Notre Dame and elsewhere, he was rec­ognized as one of the best. 
Cap assisted a long line of Notre Dame headfootball coaches. He helped Jesse Harper devise the . Dorais-to-Rockne forward pass which beat the Army in 1913. And he was one of the late Knute Rockne's closest friends, aid­ing Rock immeasurably through many years of spectacular victories. He was also a valuable aid to Hunk Anderson and Elmer Layden, until his injuries forced his retirement from football in 1935. 
From 1912 to 1917, Cap operated a machine shop in South Bend, and during World War I he was employed by the Studebaker Corporation, Sout^^ Bend, as executive for ordnance materials. He was later appointed to the claims board of the Chicago district of the United States ordnance department. 
In 1920 Cap organized the Edwards Iron Works, Inc., in South Bend, con­tinuing as its president until his death. The firm expanded in 1930 into the manufacture of truck bodies, cabs and semi-trailers. Out of this development he became, in 1933, general manager of the truck department of the Studebaker Corporation. 
Cap is survived by his wife and two sons and two daughters. Both sons aro in the armed forces. Seaman 2/c Wil­liam" Howard, Jr., ex. '37, is in Norman, Okla., and Robert is an AAF student pilot at Coehran Field, Ga. 
KOBAK MUTUAL PRESIDENT 

Edgar Kobak, a Notre Dame student in 1904-06, is the new president of the Mutual Broadcasting System, according to an announcement of Oct. 30, effec­tive Nov. 20. Mr. Kobak recently re­signed as executive vice-president of the Blue Network. 
Starting his business career with the Georgia Railway and Power Co., Atlan­ta, Mr. Kobak was later with the Mc­Graw-Hill Publishing Co. for 18 years. He joined the National Broadcasting Co. as vice-president in charge of sales in 1934 and was later with the Lord & Thomas advertising agency. Returning to NBC, he remained with the Blue when it was sold as a separate system. 
ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN 

((Continued from Page 12) Madden, Vincent L., ex. '38, 1st Lt., c/o Post­master. N.y.c. 
•Maher. Thomas A.. '39. Ens.. Harvard Univer­sity, Soldier's Field, Boston 63. Mass. 
Nelson, James J., '-10. Ens.. Naval Training School, Princeton. N. J. 
O'Connor, Phillip A., '28, c/o Postmaster, N.Y.C. O'Donnell. Lignori A., c.x. '-17, AyS, Co. 1S45, Great Lakes, 111. O'Toole, Donald E., '31. Lt. (je). Camp McDonoueh, Plattsburg, N. Y, O'Toole, Eugene J., ex. '45, Pvt, c/o Postmaster. 
N. Y. C. 

Perko, John F., Jr., e-x. '47, USMC, Co- B. Pit. 5. Schools Rest, T.C.. F.M.F.. O.C. Bn.. Camp LeJeune, N.. C.. 
Cpl. Ambn»ac B. Clancy, ex. '46 (His death "was reported in the October "Alumnus") 
Petty, John F., e-x. '43, Lfc, P. O. Box 2619, Los Angeles 54. 
Rcardon, Thomas M., ex. '36, Ens., c/o FPO, San Francisco. Reardon, Thomas McGee, '39, P.S.N.Y., Plan­ning Division, Bremerton, Wash. Reiser, Louis A., '41, c/o Postmaster, N. Y. C. 
Sankey, John F., ex. '48, Pvt, Co. D, 8th Bn., 2nd Eegt, Fort McCIellan, Ala. 
ScarpeDi, Leonardo E.. ex. '47, Pfc. USMC. Co. D, 5th Pit, O. C. Bn.. Schools Eegt, T.O.. FJI.P., Camp LeJeune, N. C. 
Sdlneider. Riciiert G., '32, Lt (jg). Camp Brad­ford, Norfolk. Va. 
Thomas, .Alan R., ex. '48. Pvt, Co. D. 33rd I.T.B-, 4th Pit, Camp Croft S. C. Tighe. Edward T., '24, c/o Postmaster, N.Y.C. 
Umbaask, Kenneth Gene, e-x. '48. A/S. Co- 1868. USNTC, Great Lakes, HI. 
Wa*ds. Lawtcnce E., ex. '46, S 2/c, QlO-4. Bks. 508L3, Service School CJommand, Great Lakes, III. 
Yonaker, Jokn J., ex. '45, Pfc., USMC, H.&S. Co., Hq. Bn., T.C., F.M.F., Camp LeJeune, 
N. C. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Second Annual Alumni Fund 
Contributors, Sept. 16 to Nov. 15, 1944 

(These contributions are credited to the Second Annual Alumni Fund, to which additional contribu­tions may be made any time during the year 1944. As in the Centenary Fund, the alumni contributions represent alumni gifts direct to the University, through the Alumni Association, or through the tHrector fif Public Relations.) 
1915 Kelly, wniiam W. „ 10.00 Mclntyre, Leo R. — 25.00 
1887 to 1924 -1923 
Finnegan, Dr. Frank R. $ 5.00 Bruggner, Louis V. _ 25.00 
Eothert. HuEO C , '87 5 15.00 Morrissey, Joseph S. . 25.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date Chapla, John P. 25.00 
Sheils, Joseph P., '00 25.00 

$330.00 17 Gretchen, Edward .J. 10.00 
Kanaley. Byron $ 75.00 
No. in Class *To Contrib. to date ' Powers, Lt. Jeffery V. 10.00 
v., '04 (On pledge) 100.00 Total to date No. Contrib. te date 
67 .254 Rolwinff, S. Merlin _ 15.00 
Record, James, R., 'O-l 10.00 $912.00 84 
Winter, Charles A. '04 5.00 No. in Claia % Contrib. ta date 
1917 
% 85.00 
414 .203 

Corcoran, Charles G, ._ ; 10.00 Total to date No. Contrib. to date 
$ 155.00 

McMahon, James T. 50.00 $606.00 38 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date 1929 
Rudolph, Simon K 50.00 No. in Class r^ Contrib. to date 
$4,855.50 77 

Bums, Henry L. . _ $ 5.00 No. in Classes ^ Contrib. to date 
Welch, Lawrence J. 5.00 182 .209 
Kraker, Joseph H. . 10.00 263 .292 
$ 115.00 1924 Miliff, Eugene A. .. _ 6.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date Molloy, John G _ 5.00 $1,620.00 43 Saxon, David W. _ _ 15.00 
DeGurse, E. Newell 5.00 
1905 to 1909 Kennedy, Paul J. .„ 10.00 No. in Class To Contrib. to date Winchester, Rev. Otis S. _ 10.00 
Fahy, Bernard S.. '05 S 5.00 108 .40 
$ 15.00 Morris, Ernest M., '06 13.500.00 « 60.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. te date 
Shauehnessy, Frank J. "06 10.00 1918 Total to date No. Contrib. ta date 
$1,875.00 57 Shea, John F., '06 25.00 Hurley, Francis J. -S 5.00 $1,487.50 75 
No. in Class % Contrik. fo date Rath. Rev. J. Augustus, '08_ 5.00 Total to date No. Contrib. to date No. in Class % Contrib. ta date 
208 ,274 St. Geo., Ma-vimilian J., '03 100.00 $1,430.00 24 318 .236 
Kanaley, John B.. '09 25.00 No. in Class *^o Contrib. to date 
1925 

61 .40 1930 
Burke, Fabian J. — 5.00 
„ S13,S70.00 Crtmin, T. Lawrence, Jr. 5.00 
Holland, Gerald J. -. 10.00 
1919 

Total to date No. Contrib. to date Enright, Idurence F. — 10.00 
Momsen, Reuben F. . 10.00 
$26,144.50 42 Carroll, Maurice J. 15.00 Frey, Henry K. 6.00 
Traynor, John P. J 50.00 
N'o. in Classes ^ Contrib. to date Costello. James E. 25.00 Lantry, Thomas F. 10.00 
140 .30 Roberts, Daniel C. 10.00 Neeson, Richard T. 10.00 % 75.00 
Nelson, John E. 5.00 

Total to date No. Contrib. to dale 
$ 50.00 Raymond, Dr. Eugene K. 5.00 
1910 $2,067.50 86 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date Sloan, Robert B. 25.00 Moriarty, Rev. Michael L...S 50.00 
No. in Class % Contrib. to date 
$2,210.00 14 Stettler, Harry L., Jr. . 25.00 
289 .297 
No. in Class ^ Contrib. to date Walker, L t Francis X. . 10.00 Total to date No. Contrib. to date 
48 .29 51,575.00 14 
1926 

« 110.00 No. in Class ^o Contrib. to date Barr, William R. 10.00 
1923 Total to date No. Contrik. ta date 
27 .52 Cahill, Lt. Robert L. 100.00 
Moore, Elwyn M. $ 100.00 $1,362.50 103 
Collins, Richard J., Jr. 10.00 
Musmaker, Capt. John L. 10.00 No. in Class % Contrik. ta date Feldpausch, Roman C. -25.00 
1911 Sullivan, Georse L. 10.00 444 .232 
Gelson, J. Nor!>ert 10.00 Tully, John O. 200.00 Goulet, Vincent L. 10.00 
$ 120.00 1931 
O'Neill, Daniel J. 25.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date Allard, Romeo P. 25.00 
Roche, Kev. Keithen L. 75.00 
$502.00 23 
Beaupre, Russell J. 10.00 

$805.00- 19 Shanley, Joseph B. 5.00 
No. in Class % Contrib. to date 
No. in Class c^o Contrib. to date Slater. Frank X. 10.00 Baldinger. Lawrence H. . 25.00 
83 .277 
67 .283 Bergen, Arthur G. 6.00 D'Muhala, Francis J. 10.00 1921 Halpin, Daniel D. 126.00 
% 280.00 

Total to date No. Contrik. to date 1913 Brandy, Joseph R, S 25.00 52,106.40 87 Kelly, Joseph P. '. 5.00 
Byrne, Paul R. $ 10.00 Starrett, Morris _—. POO No. in Class % Contrib. to date Kletzly, Leo J. 5.00 15.00 326 .267 
Schreiner, Anthony R. 6.00 

% 30.00 Tuohy, Albert J. 10.00 Total to date No. Contrib. to date Ryan, Vincent D. .— 5.00 
1927 

5879.60 31 * 226.00 Favero, Bartholomew C. % 30.00 
$ 30.00 

No. in Class <Jo Contrib. to date Total to date No. Contrik. ta <ate 94 .33 $1,445.90 103 Total to date No. Contrib. to date 
McLaughlin, Edward J. 2S.90 
$450.00 21 

O'Connor, Thomas S. 20.00 
Na. in Class % Contrik. ta date Ruddy, Clarence J. - 5.00 
No. in Class 9^ Contrib. to date 

1922 427 .24 Bloemer, Frank B., Jr. ;.$ . 25.00 
62 .339 
$ 80.00 

Carroll, Albert ; ' 25.00 1932 
1914 Total to date No. Contrib. t* date 
Castellini, Wm. A. A. 5.00 aark, Paul D. 5.00 
$960.50 81 
Frawley, Henry J. 25.00 McCabe, Thomas S. 10.00 Anonymous 25.00 
No. in Class % Contrik ta date 
Walter, M. E 10.00 Rice. John M. 5.00 Conway, John E. . 10.00 
318 .255 
Ftnnegan. Thomas J., Jr. .. 10.00 $ 35.00 S 70.00 Hugger, Lt Jerome H. 6.00 Total to date No. Contrib. to date Total to date No. Contrib. to date 1928 Keaney. Maior John M., Jr. 10.00 $910.00 19 $1,342.50 44 Brennan, Edwin F. 5.00 Rohlof, Louis R. 10.00 No. in Class ^0 Contrib. to date No. in Class ^o Contrib. to date Ducey, Lt Vincent P. 5.00 RufBng, Cornelius J. 26.00 
67 .283 150 .293 Hickey, David F. 5.00 Russo, Dr. Albert J., Jr. . 10.00 
Trotter, James M. 15.00 Sheehan, Sg t Clarence T. 2.00 Hurray, Sg t Stanford E. . 10.00 
1937 

Sullii-an, Capt Robert E. 5.00 Hurrin, Pvt William Z. _ 5.00 S 12S.00 Dorgan, Lt. Joseph T. .—. 10.00 Thomas, L t H. Cbaries — 10.00 • O'Brien, Pf c William K. . 5.00 Hartnett. L t Vincent W. . 25.00 Raymond, Leo F., Jr. 10.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date $1,551.00 lOS Ling, Eugene F. 25.00 $ 269.00 Shortsleeve, Francis J. — 10.00 
O'Boyle, Sgt Anthony F. . 2.50 Total to date No. Cmtrik. to date No. in Clau % Contrib. to dale 
532 .197 RciUy, Bernard F. 3.00 $2,987.60 220 $ 190.40 
Schwartz, Pfc Albert J. . 5.00 Total to date No. Contrib. to date 1933 Traynor, Dr. Francis W. . 5.00 695 .316 $1,958.85 195 Valvo, Dr. Anthony S. —• 25.00 No. in Class % Conttib. to date 
No. in Class </c Cmtrik. t* date 
Bittorf, Joseph H. 25.00 Blake, Capt. Marion J. . 5.00 1941 323 
.604 $ 100.50 
Burick, Lt. Uicfaael P. 5.00 Altman. Lt Arnold D. $ 5.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date 
Byrne, Kbbert J. 5.00 Altman, Lt Herman S. 5.00 
Sl.100.50 98 1944 
Cavanau^h, Eugene L. 5.00 Aylward, Capt James P. — 10.00 No. in Class % Contrib. to date Borgess. Richard R. . 6.00 
Dillman, Cpl. Francis A. — 10.00 Ball, Lt Richard E. _ 5.00 
472 .208 Bright Sgt John H. 25.00 
Gausselin, Lt. Edwin A. — 5.00 Bums, Lt Lawrence A. 10.00 Conway, Ens. John H. — 15.00 
Lei'stik, John A. — 5.00 Dwyer, L t George P. 300.00 Dempsey, Baymond 3.00 
Lisiakowski, Edwin G. 10.00 1938 Fassi, L t George B. 10.00  J. — Earley, Ens. 
' Lusardi, Donald L. 5.00 5.00 Gero. Ens. John B. ». 9.00 
Berteling, Major John B. 
1.00 $ 5.00 Anthony F., Jr. _ '10.00 
Muellner, Pv t Jceeph F. —  Thomas H. 5.00 Glenn, WUIiam M. 
Callahan, L t Graham, William L. 10.00 

Murray. L t John T., Jr. __ 10.00 Di Brienza. L t Amerigo W. 5.00 Longo, Bernard F. —— 20.00 Myers, Herbert G. 10.00  J. 5.00 MacKenzie, Lt Louis A. — 10.00 
Halligan, Thomas F. 5.00 

Dreiling, Alvin Ryan, John J. . 5.00 Marietta, Donald J. . 6.00 
Hickey. Ens. John P. 5.00 

Flanagan, John E. — 5.00 
Kelleher, Pv t Richard S. . 10.00 

Shinners, Dr. Burton M. — 5.00 — 5.00 McGrath, James H. : 50.00 
Hess. Ijawrence G. 
Lyman, Wilkes S. 1 1.00 

McHugh, Lt Edward.C .:_ 10.00 Maccani, William L., Jr. 5.00 
Mastsrson, L t 

$ 110.00 Millenbach, Matthew K. 10.00 
Christopher R. — 25.00 Total to date Ko. Contrib. to date Moulder, Lt William A. ~ 2.00 
Macdonnell, L t Robert A. _ 5.00 

Monacclli. Walter J. -25.00 $1,068.50 96 Mullin, Lt Richard P. 26.00 
McKenna, Ens. John W. 10.00 

Prusha, Ens. Francis R. — 10.00 No. in Class ^o Contrib. to date Richardson, Robert E.-. .10.00 
McManus, Ens. Joseph G. .. 25.00 

Russell, Francis S. 10.00 
Myers, Philip F. 10.00 

422 .227 Schaller. Ens. WiUiam J. _ 50.00 
Scherer, Otto E. 10.00 Schmidt Cpl. Lawrence A. 5.00 
Patterson. Ens. Charies J. _ 5.00 

Stewart Lawrence C. 25.00 1934 10.00 Scully, Lt J. Paul, Jr. 10.00 
Reybum, Ens. Thomas T. .. 6.00 

Sulewski, Anthony G. . 
Schramm, Robert W. 5.«0 

Stine, Charles E. 10.00 Sullivan, Pv t James G. 50.00 
Cahill, Lt. Robert R. 25.00 Tallman, aiflford P. 5.00 
Syring, William J. 10.00 Sullivan, John F. , 10.00 
Donnelly, John F. — S.OO Trefzer.Theodore W. 15.00 
Hamilton, Robert L. _ 833.33 Ward; Lt John S 5.00 Trueman, Lt Thomas J. — so.oo 
Villarosa, Pvt Nicholas J. 10.00 

Kiraly, Julius J. 10.00 Weigand, Sgt Thomas H. . 25.00 Walter, Richard JU 2.00 
Welsh. Capt William J 10.00 

McGahren, Francis J. . 25.00 Wrape, L t Henry E. 7.18 Saleh, Albert E. 6.00 
$ 638.00 $ 239.00 
Total to date No. Coatrik. to 4ate $8,018.00 223 Youngr, Pvt. Daniel A.. Jr. 10.00 $ 202.18 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date 

Total to date No. Contrib. to date No. in Class % Cvntrib. ta 4ate $913.55 12* S 913.33 $1,569.38 152 N » in Class % Contrib. to date 
688 .324 253 .49 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date No. in Class % Contrib. to date 
$4,016.69 103 565 .205 No. in Class ^ Contrib. to date 1942 426 .242 
Bellinger, James E., Jr. 25.00 
1939 —$ 1945 
dapham, Charles F. 2.00 
1935 „$ Connerty. Ens. Joseph A. _$ 10.00 
Baltcs, Ens. John W. 25.00 
Donadio, Cpl. 
Total to date No. Cmtrib. io date Catalane, Bartholomew W. _$ 28.80 Bastain, George L. 60.00 Anthony P. Jr. -. 5.00 

$61.50 4Crowley, Anthony W. 20.00 Bossu, Capt August F. _— 15.00 

Fitzpatrick, Pfc Martin J. 5.00 Hamilton, James M. 833.33 Bradley. Major Francis X. _ 25.00 
Gavin, L t John J. 10.00 .John, Joseph A. 3.00 5.00 
Broscoe, Lt Edward M. Glaser, Edward J. 2.00 1946 Kuharicb, Sst. Aatobny S. 2.00 Drciling, Cpl. Virgil T. 5.00 
Gulyassy, Pfc Victor J. 1.00 
Coakley, William D. $ 10.00 

Ravarino, Albert J. 50.00 Mahcr, Ens. Thomas A. .— 2.00 
Blangelsdorf, L t Kochman. Pv t Henry L. 2.00 

Slattery, John A. 10.00 5.00 
McKay, Dr. Richard V., Jr. 
Richard F. 2S.O0 O'Connor, Ens. John C — 10.00 
McFadden, James J. S.OO 
$ 12.00 

$ 947.13 Pick, Robert B. 10.00 
Moulder, Peter V. 2.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date Total to date No. Contrib. to date Ricke, William H. 5.00 

Murphy, Cpl. Richard C. 10.00 
$12.00' 2$3,554.59 97 Trousdale, L t Roderick L. . 10.00 

Rourke. Pv t Thomas R. S.OO 
No. in Class ^Contrib. to date Zuendel, Joseph C. ... 5.00 
Sullivan, Miss Nora R. . 2.00 
452 .215 Subscribers 
Thomas, Albert L S.00 $ 172.00 
Tobin. Lt Charles A. 10.00 
1936 Berra, Joseph 2.00 
Total to date No. Contrib. to date Baur, Addbert C , Jr. 25.00 2.00 
Buckley, T. F. 

$1,633.94 152 
* 114.00 
Hamilton, L. H. 

Belmont, Lt. Carmi A. 5.00 833.34 
No. in Class % Contrib. to date Total to date No. Cmtrik. to date Uoyd, Francis W. _. 26.00 
Bott, Thomas A. 5.00 
606 .251 
$1,911.70 213 

Notre Dame N c in Class % Cmtrik. to date Byrne, Conal J. 2.00 
Club of Kentucky . 100.00 

Carey, Albert D. 7.00 
1940 512 .415 
Cummings, Sgt. Paul W. 3.20 'Rapp, William A. _. 2.00 DeGarmo, S?t. John J. . 5.00 Brennan, Thomas V. J. 10.00 Ervin, Robert F. 2.00 Bums, James F. 5.00 1943 $ 964.34 Fay, Lt. William M. 10.00 Crane, Lt Hubert T. 10.00 Atwater, Lt Julian G. . S.OO Total to'date No. Contrib. to date 
Fitzserald, James H. 2.00 Donohuc, John H., Jr. -10.00 Butler, Ens. Charles J. 10.00 $7,374.51 42 Hinurcik, Joseph P. 6.00 Dougher^, Lt Diltz, Sgt Richard C . 2.00 Hufnagel, Sst. Andrew D. 5.00 William E., Jr. 20.00 Donovan, Lt 3ciin P. „ 1S.40 
— 
RE-CAPITULATION 

Kirby, James H. 10.00 Driscoll, Francis S. .... 25.00 Haniger, George A. 10.00 Fagiiaaotti. Emery J. 25.00 Eilers, L t Bernard J. 25.00 Hedges, John M. 10.00 
Last previous Total . -$71,656.13 'Reardon, Ens. Thomas M. -5.00 Flynn, Ens. Gerald J. . 60.00 Holwell, Lt Danid E. _ 6.00 
Total this period ; - 20,662.08 

Rocca, Julius P. 2.00 Hennessy, Joseph F. . 10.00 Hoth, Pvt Frederic D. . $.00 ^Voorde, Edward F. 5.00 Jordan. Lt Cecil E. 10.00 Lehman, Robert L. ... 10.00 Kelly, Lt. James P. 5.00 Lies. Lt Mark J 10.00 Grand Total to date . 492,318.21 $ 124.20 Marker, Ens. Thomas P. _ 2.00 Maher, James J. ... E.00 
Total in. Classes . 10,667 Total to date No. Contrib. to date Meaney, Lt John W. . 10.00 Malloy. Cpl. Paul M. 10.00 
Total No. of Contributors _ 3,000 

' $1,144.00 96 O'Hare, L t William G., Jr. 5.00 HcCafferty, L t James R. . 25.00 No. in Claaa ^ Contrib. to date O'Mears, AyS Alfred M., JrJ 60.00 HU'lett Ens. Robert H. .1 25.00 
Per Cent of Contributors _:. 28.12 

443 .217 Savord, John E. . : . 5.00 Murray, Cpl. John A. S.00 Average' contribution $ 30.76 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
CHICAGO 
Bichsrd L. PheUn, '28, Tnist Dept, Chica­( o Title & Tnwt Co.. «9 W. Washington St., Pre^; Thomas S. McCabe, 'it, 1«8 Raicher Are., Sec 

• As announced in last issue, the club's local meetinES have been inauenrated and several successful parties have been held. The North Side gathered in Rogers Park on Sept. 28. there was another for the North Shore towns in mimette on Oct 13. and one on the West Side at the Stayms Club in Oak Park on Oct 31. The South Side organization will be heard from soon. All reports indicate the idea has met with popular approval and further meetings are being planned. 
Post war plans for the clubs participation in vocational and placement assistance to Notre Dame's returning service men are moving along well under Ed O'TooIe's able direction, with the support and cooperation of the Board of Gover­nors and other interested alumni. Further de­velopments will be publicized soon. 
Arrangements have now been completed for the annual Notre Dame Communion Blass and Breakfast on Dec. 10. The Mass will be at 9 o'clock in old St. Mary's and is to be otfered for all alumni in the armed forces, both living and dead. The breakfast will follow immediately at the Blackstone Hotel. The fathers of all Notre Dame' men in the service are invited to attend. 
Among those "transacting business" in New York on Nov. 11, were Jim Brennan, Tom Donovan, Tom Naah, Dan Lamont, John Doican, Joe Riiralli Fran Oeleridi, Dick Oelerich and Terrence DiUon. 
Recently reported seen in Chicago were Gerald "Kid" Ashe, Daniel J. "USD" Culhane and Ed Gottry. 
Recent new^aper accounts tell that Lt. Frank McAdams, TJSNR, was wounded in the Philip­pines Invasion. Spike is a veteran of both Atlantic r'and Pacific invasions and we sincerely hope that his injuries aren't serious. 
Tom McCabe 

CLEVaAND 
Pi:K« J. O'Connor, 'ti. 212* I,amh:rtan Vti., Pre*,: Jaaie's R. Becky. 242S Overiook Rd., See. 
October 12, 1944 

Stanley J. Lcdwwidc, working in labor re­lations at Fisher Aircraft Lt. (j. g.) E. M. Weinfarlner. Jr., has taken part in four in­vasions; Southern France, Sicily, Salerno, and .\nzio. Marine L t Dick Kelly is in a rest camp somewhere in the South Pacific. Gaylord Haas. and Lts. Cy Caldwell and BUI Bambtick of the Navy have organized the Central Pacific Notre Dame Club and meetings are held in Honolulu. Ens. Pete' Shethan and Joe Crowley have con­tacted Cy." Ens. Gerald C. Clyn, is assistant navigator on an L.S.r. Norman A. Bringman, has been wounded twice and. on his last visit to the hospital, met Father joe Barry, C. S. C, infantry chaplain. 
Saw John P. Marphy, Torn Canky, Cfcm De-vine, and Capt Haarice Power* C.S.C., '33, a chaplain in the Army, at the Notre Dajde-Fitt game.- Father Powers hears regularly from Jac DeFranco, F.B.I. man, and is with Maiar Bca Sheridan. 
Otis S. Winchester was ordained, to the priest­hood Sept 23 at S t John's Cathedral. L t Babt. 
N. Stack, Salina, Kans., saw Piaf. Taa Miiim and Bill Dooley on a recent visit to the eampns. Capt Ed. G. Caldwell, has a new son. Jeffery James. Fred Carideo, skipper of an L.CL, came aboard Ed's ship in Bizerte. CpL Bab Giiaaati. Camp Livingston, saw Lts. Bfike Crowe, and Ed HaS of Adjutant General's Office. 
Received a letter from L t (j.«.) WIlHaai J. Darey. Bill is an Armed Guard officer aboard a merchant vessel, and is married (to Pat McCabe of Chicago) and has a little girl, Kathleen. 
J. R. Bcgley 

DELAWARE 
William D. Bailey, '24, 801 River Rd,. Bircr­slde Gardens,' Wilmington, Del., Prea,; Walter J. Cortes, '42, 407 W. itth St, Wilmington 2S8, Del., Sec 

OHicers of the Delaware Club elected to' serve for the year 1944-45 are as follows: president William D. Bailey, '24; vice-president, Gearge 
F. Scfalaadecker, '38: secretary-treasurer. Waller 
J. Cortes, '42; Board of Governors. J. Feniall Froning, '40. 
The annual picnic of the Delaware Club was held this year on Sept 10. at Rockfori Park on the outskirts of Wilmington. About 20 alumni with their families and friends enjoyed the outing. George SdUaudedier of Deerfanrst handled the arrangements. 
Meetings of the club are now held in the recreation room of St Elizabeth's Parish Rectory in Wilmington, through the kindness of Rev. 
J. M. Grant, pastor. 
The movie, "Football Highlights of 1943." for­warded to us by the Alumni Association, was exhibited in Wilmington on October 23 to alumni members and their guests. This review of last year's football season was received with great enthuMasm and appreciation. The film was then forwarted to Seafori, Delaware where. Richard Leonard, '38, reports it was also thoroughly enjoyed by alumni and friends. Our thanks are extended to the officers of the Alumni Associa­tion for the preparation and loan of this movie with the hope that other films from the Univer­sity will be available in the future. 
Plans are being prepared to observe Annual Universal Communion Sunday on Dee. 10. A committee composed of Robert J. Thaaui. '39. Thomas F. Degnan, '42, and WIDiaai 3. Harray, '42, is in charge of arrangements. 
Mr. and Mrs. Irwin J. Sehaaner, '44, joined the Wilmington group of Notre Dame fandlies for a few months in late spring and early summer. Irwin received his degree of Fh.D. in Chemistry in June and was employed at the Jackson Laboratory of duPont Friends in 
Wilmington will welcome the return of Irwin and Judy when Irwin's T.-ork in Chicago Is eom­leted. 
Jaaci* K. MrlataJi, '37. has been promoted to the portion of bulling supervisor of .the '-'Gaidinal" Bmlding of the "PonsoIT Colors Area at the duFont Chambers Works. Deepwater, N. J. 
WUbua D. Balky. '24. has been made Erector of consultants of .the industrial engineering divisi<Hi of the duPont Engineering Department 
/Hie club held a dinner on June 28 to celebrate the engagement of Dr. B. A. Kartx to IBss Isa­belle Crowley. After a very enjoyable steak dinner. Buss was lectured by several of bis friends and eo-workeis on how ta maintain order and peace in his future home. The advice must have been taken to. heart since Russ and his bride have established good house-keeping at 28 Oak­wood Av e Penns Grove, N. J. 
Jabs E. Beith. FhJ>:i '44. is now employed as a research diemist'in the Rayon'DexmrtiAent. nylon division, of the duPo'nt Company. '-
Jabm Gaiaaa. '36. Jaaeph T. Fay.''30. Maiar Matthew H. Mnkk, '39, and Jaba D. Biaderidb '37, have recently been transferred to the Wil­mington area and have become active members of the club. 
Recent visits of Notre Dame alumni with Wilmington friends have been paid by Dr. Bkbard O.'- Nairii, Dr: MareeOaa Gacrta; Dr. Cbariea O'Bayle. L t (jg) Thaaua (invarioo) Gilkapie. and TWiaat Baaingaa. 
DaaaM K. DaBy, '39, has been transferred to Chicago by the Rayon Department of the duFont Co.' • •>• ••• : ;. • 
We understand that Capt Edwanl. J. Bmkr, '34, first president of the club was in the in­vasion of South FYance. Isahell is maintaining contact from Philadelphia with the Bntlera' many friends in Wibmngton" during Ed's afcaanee. She was a welcome guest at the annual dob picnic on Sept 10. .- Wah Caidca . 
DETROIT 
Hcary J. Clark. "SO. 220 East Hcrrill St . BinalBghaiB. Mkb.. Pre*.: Gearge B. Har­ris. '3S, Clt Blafaw Are., Dttr*it."Scc 

On Nov. 5, the club sponsored a Feather Party in the Hotel Book-Cadillac .Th e iwrty was attended by appraximately 1,300 people and was the most successful ievent ever sponsored by 'the Detroit club.': Asde :fnm.dti» ticket selling, which was done by the members under the direc­tion of the officers and .trustees and the general chairmanship of Art Creabi and Jaba Aaaaa all the other arrangements, inehiding excellent baskets of food and poultry, were made by Lea MdaenMy. 
Hie Feather Party was 'so successful, and'there has been anch a demand for a repetiiiim of the party, that we feel reasonably sure that sadi an event will be an annual club function. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday wiU be observed by the Detroit Club by attending High Mass at the Ckthedral of the Host Bleand Sacrament and breakfast at Catholic Central High School. 
- Gearge B. Hania, Jr. 
ITALY 
The Notre Dame Club of Italy continues to prosper de^tte the fact its members are chasing all over Italy. .. . I don't think there is a more loyal or enthusiastic group of Notre Dame men anywhere in the world, and we're d:imned proud of our club. 
Whenever we can we have informal get-to­gethers. We also meet regularly ^^"ith various chapters of the Allied Forces Holy Name Society in Itab'—^at meetings. Communion Breakfasts, etc Notre Dame men, incidentally, had a lead­ing part in the formation of the Allied Forces Holy Name Society in Italy. I haven't attended a Holy Name meeting over here yet without meeting at least two or three Notre Dame men. In fact, at one such meeting I met ten I 
One of our club's greatest activities is in the field of charity. Like all U. S. troops serving in Italy we can't stand idly by and watch the Italian people undergo all sorts of privations \^'tthout attempting to do something to help them. We have made our limited means go as far as possible- We save* our cigarette and candy rations, and persuade other officers and men to give us some of theirs. Most of the candy goes 

' to kids in orphanages and hospitals and poor sections. It would wring your heart, just like it has ours, to see how pathetically grateful these kids are for two or three small pieces of candy. Some of these kids have never tasted candy, as incredulous as this may seem to Amer­icans. Host of the others have not had candy ance the war started. 
The rest of the candy goes to women in the charity wards of different hospitals. They, too, are exoeedin^y grateful for such small favors. 
The cigarettes are distributed to men patients in the charity wards of the same hospitals. Our supplies naturally are very limited so we can distnhute only two or three cigarettes to each man. Nevertheless, they eagerly anticipate our weekly or bi-weekly visits, depending on how many cigarettes we can scrape up. 
It might be of interest to Notre Dame, too, to know that members of the club have been very active in helping a school conducted by American, British and Italian nuns in a poor section of one of Italy's largest cities. An Amer­ican bomb unfortunately shattered one wing of this school and blew out all of the windows. As it gets pretty cold for five or six months of the year in the section of the country where the school is located, it was imperative that glass be put in in all of the windows- Thanks to the Notre Dame Club of Italy, the Allied Forces Holy Name Society in Italy and other interested American soldiers, the glass has been found and is in process of beinff pnt in. Several par:ic.< also have been held by our soldiers for the kids attending this school. The greatest thrill we've had in Italy was to hear these kids sing the "Star Spanned Banner" in readily-understand­able English. That, and their prayers, was about the only way the nuns and children of 
this school could show their appreciation. Could we ask for more? 
Hie name of the school, incidentally, is Notre Dame. It is conducted by the Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur and they are doing a magnifi­cent job despite terrific obstacles. Do you under­stand now why we are so anxious to help the'm? 
John V. HInkel, *29. Major, M. I. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
AT MONTE CASSINO 
A delegation from the Notre Dune 

Club of Italy visiU what u left of die 
war-torn Abbey of Monte Camsino. Pic­
tured, left to risht are S^Sgt. John N. 
Cakely, '37, T/Sgt. Frank Shay. '35, 
Sgt. Robert F. Coleman, '42, and Major 
John v. Hinkel, '29. 
MILWAUKEE 
Ouries O'NeiU, '27. 2479 N. »5 St. Pia.; John aander, '34, 4809 N. Waodkara SU Stc 

John CUnder, secretary, sends word of the reorganization of the club. Two meetings Iiave lately been held. \^-ith the following "old guard" present: President Chariic O'Neal, Jim Whcder. Frank Holdampf, Doc Dnndon. Gene Galdakini. Angelo Gatdabini, Dad Pearson, John Greiaer. John Madden, Eddie Rogers, Paul Brest and John Bnist. More news as plans develop. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
Joseph BL Boland, SUlion WSBT, Smmlk B:nd. Ind., Prcs.; Rtdurd C. KKCxnaick. *40, 317 Napoleon Blvd., Soath Bend, la^ . Sec 

On Oct. 20, the eve of the Wisconsin gams. the first of three pre-game smokers was attended by 150 club members and guests at the La Salle Hotel. South Bend. The club president. Jce Boland, acted as toastmaster and presented Coach Ed McKeerer and Capt. J. Ridiard Barry. who commands all naval units at the Universi^. Movies, including those of Dartmouth game. were sho\^-n, with comments by Joe BoZand. 
A radio broadcast in tribute to Mario TonelU, "S9, Notre Dame fullback In '37, and *38. who was captured at Corregidor, was the highli^t of the club smoker in the Oliver hotel on the eve of the Nprthwestem game- The 15-minate dmmatic piece, staged by WSBT of South Bend, was one of a series sponsored by the Gilbert men's store in South Bend to recognize war heroes of the area. 
Speakers at the smoker were: Bcr. John J. CaTanaaxli, CS.C., vice-president of the Uni­veruty, C«ach Ed HcKccTcr, Asnstant Comth Aiam Walsh and Ted Hu«ng and Jimmy Dolan, both of CBa Movies of the Navy and the Illinois games were shown. Harlan Hogen of WSBT and the Barbadiers* Quartet (of whom Gene O'Brien, '35. is one) provided the music. Joe Brtand, club president, presided. 
IKduTd C. Kaczmarck 
TWIN CITIES 
Clarence G. Liemand<, ex. '32, 831 North Western Bank BIdff., Minneapolis* Pres<: Ed Krick, Sec 

Clarence G> "Bad" Liemandt, Minneapolis is ..the. new president of the club. Bob Madden, ' Minneapolis, is vice-president and Ed Kricfc, St. 
Paul, is secretary. 
An active nucleus of membevs has held the club together since the start of the war, pre­senting three or four activities a year, usually a fall smoker, a Communion-breakfast, a Christmas party and a get-together for Universal N. D. Nii^t Elxpansion of activities will come with the end of the war, k is planned. 
yOUNGSTOWN 
ChttiM B. C^wa . Jr^ '31. IM€ CMWada Av e PsM.: CUiCMe T. Ttte " 8hw*an, '4t. nS Gxtaadm Ave.. Sec 

liocal alumni lost a loyal friend and ardent supporter with the passing of James P. Col­leran, business and civic leader here for more than a half-century. We extend our most sin­cere sympathy to his sons, Jim and LoOt and his sons-in-law. Jack Havan and Chet Rice. Lou, who is stationed at a California air base, was home when his father died. 
We rejoice with Marty Shea on hearing that his brother, Joe, is alive in a Marine hospital in California. Joe, who left Notre Dame to join the service In ^1943, had previously been reported "dead from wounds in the South Pacific" 
Daring a recent furlough I was lucky to meet 

'.several of the gang who were also enjoying leaves. Spike Siegcl of Meadville was over with his wife whom he married in Newport, R. I., a few months aga A first sergeant. Spike, has been transferred to the infantry at Camp Butner. 
N. C' Bin Eaton, a veteran of two years in the C^mal Zone, was married at the Log Chapel, Oct. 10. It was his first trip home since his induction whi-bh preceded his graduation by a few days. . . . Just missed 1st Lt. Chack McCahe, the Flying Fortress combat veteran, who was home after 30 missions over Nazi territory. 
Bad Bematd and Jake Jaxtheimer, bridge partners in Dillon Hall, met in the New Hebrides recently. -. • Bin Donleyy is still in New Guinea and Gahe Maran is taking care of things for the Navy at Newfoundland. . . . Roy Cestary, an infantryman, has been decorated in France. . . . 
On the hoine front . . . John Backley was up for re-election as st^te representative. . . . Jade Kane was moving to Cleveland. . . .Charlie Cuhwa, Jahn Moran. Ell Leonelli, Gerry Wolf. Dick Biky. Joe Wallace and Steve Repaskey are doing the bowling in the local leagues. . . . Goshwa, who doubles as president of the Chester­ton Club, is working on the Chesterton football stag- planned for December with Ed Hel^re r as principal speaker. 
Set. Pete Shechan (Sebring. Fla.) 

FOR GOD. COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME Bob is survived by his wife, an ensign in the WAVES at CHraiview Naval Air IN GLORY EVERLASTING Base near Chicago, and by his patents 
PREVIOUSLY REPORTED 
The death* of 139 Notre Dame men lerrinK in the armed forces of the Allie* in World War II have already been listed in the "Alumnus." (A toUl of 56 Notre Dame men lost their lives in Worid War I). 
S/Sgt. James P. Mahoney, '27, Raw­lins, Wyo., brother of Frank, '17, and Phil, '25, was killed in action in France on Sept. 15. He had been overseas since March, 1944, participating in the Nor­mandy invasion on D-Day, after joining the Army in April, 1942. 
After his graduation from Notre 
Dame, Jim received his law degree at 
Harvard and was admitted to the Wyo­
ming bar. He did not, however, practice 
law, preferring to engage, with his 
brothers, in the sheep-raising business. 
Surviving Jim, besides his two broth­
ers, are three sisters: Sister M. Agnes, 
C.S.C., Salt Lake City, Mrs. Elizabeth 
Robinson, of Rawlins, and Mrs. Mary 
Curry, Hartford, Conn., wife of Jim 
Curry, '14. 
Lt. A. Gerard Farrell, '34, Rochester, 
N. Y., was killed in action in France on Sept. 24. He is survived by his wife, Lu­cille Odenbach Farrell, and by his par­ents, and a brother, Thomas G. Farrell. 
Gerry volunteered for service in June, 1942, and was commissioned at Ft. Riley, Kans., in January, 1943. He had been overseas with a reconnaissance squad­ron since last July. When he entered the armed forces Gerry was associated with the Aetna Insurance Co. 
1st Lt. James L. Mulcahy, '38, Taun­ton, Mass., was killed in action in Italy on Oct.' 2 while leading a company of infantry in the 85th Division operating with the 5th Army along the Gothic Line. 

Jimmy, in Italy since early spring of 1944, was the veteran of four major battles and had been awarded the Pur­ple Heart for wounds received in action along the Gustaf Line before Rome. He had also received the Combat Infantry badge "for exemplary conduct in action against the enany." 
Jim taught history and was assistant football coach at Monsignor Coyle High School in Taunton (operated by the 
C.S.C. Brothers) following his gradua­
1ST LT. ROBERT S. SCH(«SCH 
tion from Notre Dame. In 1941 he trans­ferred as a teacher to Taunton Hi ^ School. Inducted into the Army on Aug. 13, 1942, he was commissioned in OCS at Ft. Benning, Ga., on March 10, 1943, and on March 13, 1943, was married to Miss Florence Quigley of Taunton, who with his mother, survives him. 
T/Sgt. Harold Roger Sweeny, US­MCR, e-x. '39, Pelham Manor, N. Y., was killed on Oct. 4 in the crash of a Navy 
plane near Ply­mouth, N. C. 
A veteran of 19 months and two major cam­paigns in the Pa­cific as a monber of the Marine Air Force, Roger returned to the United States in May, 1944, and 
i^i ^ J was stationed at 
•r^^ o . c, Edenton, N. C, TiStU H. R. Sweeny ^ ^, -.' .. .' 
' at the time of his death. He had enlisted in the Marines on Feb. 28, 1942, after being associated with the O'Neil Distributing Co., New Rochelle, N. Y. 
Roger's parents and a brother, in the Army, survive him. 
1st. Lt. Robert S. Schorsch, A.B. '39, 

M.A. '40, Ph.D. '42, Chicago, of the air borne command, was killed in action in Holland on Sept. 24. Commissioned in July, 1942, he had participated in nu­merous paratroop attacks. 
and two brafhers and five sisters. He completed his gradnate work in philoso­phy just before he entered the aimed services. In his undergraduate days he had participated in campus athletics and was 'particularly known as a leading contender in the Bengal Bouts. 
Lt. Philip Enteae Golden, USNK, '40, Richmond, Va., was killed in action in the South Pacific on Sept. 13. He was a dive bomber, serving aboard an aircraft 
LT. FHUJF EUGENE GOLEGN, TTSNR 

Gene entered the service in August, 1941, following a period ot employmeat by the Graybar Electric Co. Trained at Anacostia, D. C, and Pensacola, Fla., he recdved his wings at Miami on May 22, 1942. 
Leaving the States for the first time on Oct. 21,1942, to serve for 10 months in Hawaii and New Caledonia and aboard three different carriers, he re­turned in Angnst, 1943, to become an in­structor at Norfolk, Va. hx February, 1944, he was sent back to the Pacific and remained there until his death. In June he was awarded the Air Medal for out­standing achievement. 
Gene is survived by his parents, a sis­ter, and a brotiier, who is a lieutenant in the Marines. 
SgL Willian F. Dold, ex. '45, Glen Ridge, N. J., a photographer and gunner in a Flying Fortress, was killed on Aug. 4 in a raid over Germany, just one year after he started his AAF training. His 
plane, disabled by flak, collided with an­other plane in the unit. 
Bill, having enlisted when he was a student at Notre Dame, went overseas last June. He is sun-ived by his parents and a brother. 
A/S Thomu J. Draper, USNR, ex. '48, Los Angeles, a "V-12 student at Notre Dame was drowned on Oct. 30 in the Ohio River near Cincinnati, Spend­ing the short vacation between terms with A/S Bill Brockoff at Bill's home in Cincinnati, he, with Bill, had gone on a canoe trip on the Ohio River. When their canoe capsized they attempted to swim to safety. Tom didn't quite make it. 
A veteran of 17 months' service in the Navy before he came to Notre Dame, Tom was known on the campus as an ex­emplary student. Assisting at Mass and receiving Communion daily, despite a tight Navy schedule, he had continued this practice, begun in his high school days, even during his vacation in Cin­cinnati. In addition, he had assisted at the altar during a Forty Hours devotion being held in Cincinnati. 
The ALUMNUS has so far received only incomplete information regarding the following Notre Dame men who died in the service of their country: Pfc Ed­ward F. Catey, ex. '45, Philadelphia, wounded in France, Sept. 10, 1944, died Sept. 14; Alexander J. Milone, ex. '45, Brooklyn, N. Y., killed in France, Sept. 19, 1944. 
Missing in Action 
lit. Lt. Philip M. Wade, '40, Eliza­beth, N. J. The notation "missing" was on an envelope addressed to Phil and re­turned to the University by the Army. 
; Lt.. Thonias G. Horgan, '41, Keno, Nev. The president of the University was notified that Tom is missing. 
Em. Roy J. Grumbine, '44, Cincin­nati. Father- William T. Craddick, pre­fect of religion, received word on Nov. 18 that Roy was missing. 
Prisoners of War 
Lt. Charles M. Bransfield, ex. '41, Chicago. Reported missing Sept. 18, 1943, in action over the Gilbert Islands, Charlie, it now seems faii-ly certain, is a prisoner of the Japanese. A message from him to his parents was heard on a Jap broadcast. 
Major William G. Blum, ex. '42, Dansville, N. Y. Previously reported to be missing. Now known to be a prisoner in Germany. 
LT. JAMES J. FERRY 
Ens. John D. O'Malley, '43, Terre Haute, Ind. Previously reported to be missing. Now known to be a German prisoner. 
2nd Lt. John B. Hynes, ex. '43, West Roxbury, Mass. Previously reported to be missing. Now known to be a German prisoner. 
Deaths Already Reported 
(In its October issue tlie Alumnus was able to print only brief notices of the deatJis in the armed forces of the following Notre Dame men. More in­formation about these men now being available, ?i-e are presenting it here. —Eds.) 
1st Lt. Thomas J. Sengon, ex. '39, Easton, Pa., lost his life on July 1 in the crash of a B-24 bomber on a routine flight from the Muroc Army Air Field in California. Three civilian techni­cians in the plane were also killed. 
Tom was a veteran of numerous mis­sions and of combat with the enemy in the Aleutian area. Inducted into the Army with his brother, Pfc. Francis W.' Sengon, now in India, on June 29,1941, he was awarded his wings at Brooks Reld, Texas, on July 3,1942. On Nov. 7, 1942, he was married to Miss Rita Hanratty of Yakima, Wash. 
Tom had been employed as an under­writer by the Firemen's Insurance Co., Newark, N. J., following his years at Notre Dame. Surviving him are Ms wife, father, brother and seven sisters. 
General H. H. Arnold, commandingT the AAF, in writing to Tom's wife said 
in part: "My attention has been called to Lieutenant Sengon's outstanding acadonic record at Brooks Field and to his excellent reputation as an airman. The fine manner in which he performed all his duties, particularly those assign­ments as a flying instructor, made his work of great value to his organization. He was an oificer of strong character and stamina, a favorite with all who knew him well." 
Lt. James J. Ferry, '41, Brazil, Ind., was killed in action in France on Aug. 22 as he was leading a tank platoon. Surviving him are his parents, five brothers and three sisters. Jim had been graduated from the Ft. Knox, Ky., armored school. 
1st. Lt. James P. Grant, ex. '46, St. Paul, Minn., died on Aug. 28 in France from wounds received in battle. Join­
„, -.„ , ing the invasion forces on June 10, he had fought through" much of Prance and had received the Purple Heart. 
Jim was at Notre Dame when he was called to active duty in Decem­ber, 1942, as a second lieutenant 
1ST LT. J. P. GRANT 
of infantry, having been graduated, as second rank­ing cadet from St. Thomas Military Academy, St. Paul, in June, 1942. He went overseas in April, 1944. 
Surviving Jim are his parents,- three brothers (one of whom is in the Navy in the Pacific) and a sister. 
IST LT. THOBCAS J. SENGON. 

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Mary Frances O'Keefe and Arthur J. MolhoUand, Jr., '36. 
Mrs. Adelae Hansen Zupan and Alexis Co­aniUard. Jr., '40. 
Miss Evelyn Marie Clift and Frank J. Murphy, Jr., '40. 
Miss Gwendolyn G. Kehl and Lt. Joseph E. Gore, Jr.. '40. 
Miss Cecilia Kathcrine Donohue and Frederick 

H. Panlmann, Jr., '42. 
Miss Marie Donnelly and Vincent J. Cushinz, ex. '45. 
Marriages 
Miss Janet Elizabeth Prendereast and Kajmond 

J. Keiser. '2S, Phoenix, Ariz.. Nov. 18. 
Miss Barbara Gonover and Clarence Bcanlanrier, e.\-. '33. Great Falls, Mont., Aus. 13. 
Misa Betty Jane Lahrman and Dr. Kenneth Laws, "36, Notre Dame, Nov. 9. 
Miss Ruth F. Bachrach and Maurice M. Tuldiin­»ky, '36. South Bend. Oct. 22. 
Miss Beverly Marie Howe and Maj. Robert F. Schirf, '39, Beloit. Wis., Auff. 21. 
Miss Mary Murphy and StU John A. Siesel, '39, Newport, R. I., July 31. 
Miss Mildred Warner and Set. Abe Zoss, '.W, South Bend, Sept. 25. 
Miss Ann Sweeney and Lt. (jg) Henry Johant­een, '39, Rochester, N. Y.. Sept 30. 
Miss Iris Lucille Nybo and Lt. Edward D. Doyle, '40, San Diego, Calif., Sept 1. 
Miss Isabelle Crowley and Russell A. Kurtz. '40, Penns Grove, N. J.. July 14. 
Miss Ellen Murray and L t Charles B. BtcCan­na, '40, Wauwatosa, Wis., Sept 23. 
Miss Marjorie L. Wilson and Wiiliam M. Glenn, '41. WilminRton, Del., Feb. 5. 
Miss Lois De Leers and Dr. Philip R. McCan­na, '41, Marinette, Wis., Sept 30. 
Miss Geraldine M. Lowth and Dr. Euicene J. Ryan, '41, Philadelphia, Sept 9. 
Mr. and Mrs.- Ching-Cheng Yang announce the marriage of their daughter, Su-Min, to Jackson Chia-Shan Chum, '42, Detroit, Oct 28. 
Hiss Elizabeth Helen Pete and Cpl. William Eaton, '42, Notre Dame, Oct 17. 
Miss Ruth Marie Jankowski and Flight Officer James J. Rice, '42,. LaCrosse, Wis., Nov. IS. 1944. 
Miss Betty Mclnerney and Lt (ie) William F. HcGrath, '42. 
Miss Mary Geraldine Roche and Sgt. Lester 

D. Fahcy, '42. Reno, Nov., Oct. 14. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Noreen and Sob-Lt Frederick E. Flynn, '42. Toronto. Can. 
Miss Dorothy Marie Abel and L t (jg) James 

P. Pareell, '42, Notre Dame, Oct. 28. 
Cpl. Patricia L. McDale, M.C.W.R., and CpL Joseph N. Marcin. '43, Edenton, N. C, Nov. ID. 
Miss Mary A. Van Epps and Jahn W. McDowell, '43, Chicago, Nov. IS. 
Miss Janet P. Westburg and Lt John F. Petty, c-x. '43, Los Angeles, Oct 21. Miss Dorothy Ann O'Neill and WilliaH H. Bodden, '44. Notre Dame, Oct 28. 
Miss Virginia Hobbs and Ens. Edwin F. Bolf, Jr., e.x. '44, Pensacola, Fla., Sept 20. 
Miss Florence G. Kristowski and Vail W. Pischke, '44, South Bend, Nov. 5. 
Birth! 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Halpin, '27, announce the birth of a damjhter, Margaret Mary, Oct. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry R. Freyr *30, announce the birth of a son, Robert Henry, Oct. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Derick^ *31. announce the birth of a son, Peter Edward. July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald F. MacDonald. '31. announce the birth of a son, Oct 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Taohy, '31, announce the birth of a son, David Jerome, Jan 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Roney, '32. announce the birth of a son, Richard T. Jr;. Oct. 21. 
Ens. and Mrs. James C. Carran, *34. announce the birth of a son. John James, Sept. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond W. Oakes, '35. announce the birth of a daughter, Suzanne. Oct 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene O'Brien, '35, announce the birth of a son, Frederick Joseph. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Verbanc, '35, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Kathym, March 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pieroni, *36, announce the birth of a daughter, Marina Antoinette. Aprii 22. 
Ens- and Mrs. James Bacon, ex. '37, announce the birth of a daughter. Kathleen Sue, Aug. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Crorman, '38, announce the birth of a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis S. RQBSCU, '38, announce the birth of a son, Robert Patrick, Sept 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas N. Armel, '39, announce the birth of a daughter, Kathleen Marcia. Sept^ 
25. . . . 
Ens. and Mrs. Tlieodore P. Freridcs, '39, an­nounce the birth of a son. Theodore Paul. Sept. 29. 
Ens. and Mrs. John O'Connor, announce the birth of a daughter. Sept 18. 
Lt. (jg) and Mrs. Charles Reddy. *39, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Oct 6. 
L t and Mrs. Chester P. Sadowski, '39, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Mary Dorothy, Nov. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kelley, '40, announce the birth of a daughter, Judith Anne. April 16. 
Capt and Mrs. C* G. Oliveros, '41, announce the birth of a son. Oct. 1. 
SUff Sgt and Mr?. JoMph L. Brndthr, '41, annotinee the birth of a son, Michael JosQ)fa, Oct H. 
Mr. and Mrs. ht9 J. RobUovx. '41, snnotmce the birth of a son, BonaM Joseph, July 26. 
Petty Officer 3/c and BIra. Jolm W. Ciasac* '41. announce the birth of a daughter. Sept 28. 
L t and BCra. WiDiaM E. Cattcr, Jr., '41. an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Mazy Deaita. 
Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Irwin, '41, announce the Inzth of a son. Leo James, Oct 20. 
Ens. and Mrs. Eaxene FeUiff, '43. announce the birth of a daushter, EathxTn Marie, June 30. 
Cpl. and Mrs. Kickard W. KtOr, '43. announce the birth of a 9on. Michael Joseph, Oct 16. 
Ens. and Mrs. Jakn F. Tieaey, '44, announce the birth of a son, John Frauds H, Nov. 9. 
Deafhs 
Georse R. Cartier. Tacoma, Wash., -who helped to organize and ^vas quarterback of the first football team at Notre Dame in 1887. died in T^uoma on Oct 21 at the age of 75 as the result of a heart attack. 
Mnnber of the family long noted in Notre Dame history, Mr. Cartier was one of four brothers who attended the University in the 188.0's and 1890's. The other three were the late Warren A. Cartier, who gave to the Uni­versity the ground for the present Cartier field, the late William E. Cartier and Dezera E. Car^ tier, who resides in Ludington, Mich. 
Surviving George R. Cartier are his wife and a daughter, Natalie; his brothers. D. E. of Ludington and (Carles £. of South Bend, now on the business staff of the University, and a sister, Mrs. W. S. Taylor, Seattle. Wash. 
At Notre Dame. Mr. Cartier was a catcher on the baseball team, in addition to his pioneering football activities. In Taooma, he was prominent for many years in the lumber industry but was retired at the time of his death. 
Ralph t . Glynn, ex. '02. S t Paul. Minn., died on Aprii 3. 1944, after a short illness. Word of his death only recently reached the Ahunni Office. 
Mr. Glynn at the turn of the century was one of Notre Dame's best known athletes,' excelling in football and track. Bom in Saginaw, Mich,, he spent his boyhood in Green Bay, Wis., and came from there to Notre Dame. In his later years he was known as one of the Twin Cities most ardent sportsmen, with a special skill in golf. 
Always vitally interested in Notre Dame ath­letics. Mr. Glynn had a particular interest in the series of football games involving the uni­versities of Minnesota and Notre Dame He is survived by his wife, two daughters and two sisters. 
Jaaeph J* Ksvacs, '16. South Bend, was one of -two members of his class who died in recent weeks; 
joe. attorney and manager of the South Bend branch of the Becker Roofing Co.. died in his 
residence after a six-week illness. Born in Throop. Pa., he moved to South Bend in 1912 and had lived there continuously since. One of his distinctions was that he had seen every Notre Dame home football game since 1912. He was an ardent golfer and bowler. 
Surviving Joe are his wife, a son, who is an air cadet in the AAF, San Antonio, Texas, a daughter, two sisters and a brother. 
Joseph 0*SoUivan» *16, Mound City. III.. attorney, was the second member of the '16 class to meet death lately. In St Louis with his wife, he was stricken suddenly in a local hotel and removed to a hospital, where he died. 
Joe had served as state's attorney of Pulasld Ckiunty, III., for 12 years and at the time of his death was city attorney for Mound City. A veteran of World War 1, he was a member of the American Legion, as well as chairman of the Pulaski County Chapter of the American Bed Cross. He was appeals officer of the Pulaski County draft board and a fourth degree Knight of Columbus. 
Surviving Joe, besides his wife, are his mother and three brothers, Albert, '18, Belvidere. III., and Dan, *23, Mound City, and Dr. George, ex. '25. St houis. 
William. A. BenoUel, ex. *12, Chicago, died in September, 1944, according to word from Fred Steers, *11, also of Chicago. Mr. BenoUel came to the University from Ann Arbor, Mich-, for the year 1908-09 and won a monogram in track. 
Philip S. Dunt, '22. Louisville, died suddenly on Nov. 16 at EI Paso, Texas, while he was en route to a sanatorium in Arizona. In ill health for 19 months, Phil had been a patient in a Lexington, Ky-, sanatorium for the past year. 
In the insurance business in Xjouisville for a time, Phil was later associated with the Kentucky River Distillery Co. He was a member of a family prominent for many years in the Ken­tucky distillery business. His father was Samuel 
J. Dant, former vice-president of the Taylor and Williams IKstilleries. 
Phil is sur\*ived by his wife, his daughter, his mother and two brothers. The brothers are 
J. William, ex. '19. and Maurice N., ex. *25. 
William C. Gilchrist, ex. *24, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, died on Sept 8 in his home. 
One of the best known advertising men in Canada, Bill was an original member of the advertising firm of Cockiield, Brown and Co.. Ltd., in Toronto, and had been a director of the firm for the past 11 years. 

Bill was bom in Buffalo. N. Y.. but moved to Canada early in his life. He attended 9 t Hichael's College, Toronto, before he enrolled at Notre Dame. He had spent three years in France with the 63rd Battery, aF.A.. of London. Ontario, in Worid War L 
Surviving Bill are his wife, two daughters and a sister. He was buried after solemn requiem Mass in the Church of Our Lady of Perpetual Help. Toronto. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to: John P. Cancn, '22, on the death of his father; Lt. Cndr. Barty Holton, '22, on the death of his father; Lt. Edward J. Murray. '31, on the death of his mother; Se t Erran Rcinbolt, '32, OQ the death of his father; Loois Rohlof, *32, on the death of his mother; Arthur, '37, Richard, ex. '39, and Walter, Ml, Cronin on the death of their brother. 
I AA C A A ^^- Thomas E. Barke, C.S.C, I TUD-*Uy '07, Notre Dame, Ind. 
"Red" Salmon^ is chief engineer for the Stevens Hotel, Chicago, according to reiwrts reaching the campus. 
For the first time since 1912, Casper Althen, Chicago, visited the campus for the Northwestern game. He was accompanied by John HcNcBis* '27. also of Chicago.' 
 J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., Pitts­
1912 B. 
burgh, Pa. 
Forrest Fletdier, Lexington, Va., is recuperat­ing from a serious illness. His close friend. Freddie Steers, brought this word to the campus on the day of the Northwestern game. Mr. Fletcher, long widely kno^vn in college circles in the South, is a professor emeritus in Wash­ington and Lee University. 
 H. Hayes. 642 Third Ave., 
1914 
Frank 
Chnla Vista, Calif. 
After much cross-country trekking. Georse Regan, Chicago, in his professional engineering work is now with the Elwood Ordnance Plant, near Joliet, HI., as engineer. 
 J. Voli, 206 E. Tutt St., Saath 
1917 B. 
Bend, Ind. 
Harry F. Kelly, '17, governor of Michigan, was re-elected on Nov. 7 by a substantial majority and will hold office for anotber two-year term. Governor Kelly preceded Thomas F. Byrne, '28, now serving, as president of the Aluaini Association. 
 Comm. Clarence W. Ba4er, 

1919 Lt. 
U.S.N.R.. NJ^.S., FranUin, FieU, Franklin, Va. 

George Haller, has returned to Ann Arbor, Mich., after serving as a captain in the Harine Corps. 
 B. Ward, 1012 BUck BIdff,. L M 1920 Leo 
Angeles, Calif. 

Slip Madigan, coach at the University of Iowa, was again on the speaker's rostrum at the Chicago "Herald-American** Monday Quarter^ back Club in mid-October. 
From Lt. CoL Sherwood Dixon, Washington, 

D. C., to Leo Ward: 
"One day last spring, word reached me that I had been observed passing through California on my way to the S.W.P. The following day a friend wrote my wife that he had just seen me entering a transport at the New York P. of 
E. Neither report was quite correct. I was knee-deep in the swamp water of a southon maneuver area. Recently I noted an item in an 'Alumnus* which overtook me (I dunge address nearly every rent day) requesting verifica­tion of the report that I was on General liar-shall's staff. This latter statement is substan­tially correct. I am in the office of the Chief of Staff—^but the outside office, and several doors down the hall. 
"Several months ago the Army mistook my prematurely gray hair for a sign of advanced age, transferred me to the War Department General Staff and assigned me to the. Spedal Planning Division. After three and a half years of strenuous infantry duty, the comfortable berth here was a great relief to bones gnawed by the chiggera of every state that seceded in 1861. Nevertheless, it did not fortify my pride to be classed as overage for troop duty—not while I think I can still keep up with the youngsters. But of course' that's just one man's opinion. 
"Among other elder statesmen who I have encountered here on the third floor of the Penta­gon are two old friends from the Notre Dame of the pre-World War 1 era—Joe Gargan, *17, a top flight executive in the office of the Under­secretary of War, and Lt. CoL Bay Kelly, '15, who works under General SomervelL 
"We foregather occasionally, muttering into our beards uncomplimentary remarks about the Army going to the dogs now, with a lot of young squirts in command of regiments- However, I remember one hot day in 1919 or 1920, and Joe Pliska, *15, feebly trying to pull off a pair of shoulder pads and gasping, *It*s a young man's grame-* Maybe there is something in it. 
"Remember me kindly to the senile survivors of the Class of 1920." 
Jim Wheeler, Milwaukee, for many years in charge of the industrial chemical division of the Hercules Powder Co., has with Ed Redmond, *30. purchased the soap and soap powder division from Hercules. They are operating it as the Ess^itials Chemicals Co. in Milwaukee- Jim is the president and Ed is the secretary and trea­surer. The former will direct distribution and the latter research and manufacturing. 
1921 
 Daffy, I60Q Terminal Tower, Dan W. O. 
Cleveland, 
Football prospects at the Cherry Point base took an upward turn when it was learned that Capt. Clipper Smith, one of the nations leading coaches before the war, had been ordered to report there for dufy as recreation and athletic director. 
Lt. Calluc Miller, South Bend, after 19 months with the Seabees in the Pacific theater of war, returned to the states and is now stationed at Princeton University in the School of Military Government. Callix has a couple of sons in the Navy too. 
1922 
Gerald Adw. 19 Dorldnf Rosd, Roch­ester, N. Y. " 

From Kid Ariie: Jim FsreOf a civilian attached to the Army . Air Corps conoemed ^t h pcoducUon pToblenn. is now stationed in Cleveland. Jim resides at 14150 Superior Road. Cleveland. He formerly lived in Detroit 
Jehn Paal Callen, adjudicator of claims for the Veterans Bureau, now has ofSces in the Costonn' Bids- Chicago. He had been located at the Edward Hines Jr. Hospital, Hines, III., near CUeaso. 

Last summer one of the Cleveland papers presented a feature write-up of Pete Champion, preddent of the Champion Rivet Co. The article described Pete's career in schooling and in fausineas. 
Bin Cartrilini is siving a course in public relations at Xavier Labor School, the first of several schools dealing with the pressing social PKAilems of the day, established by the Xavier University, Cincinnati. Bill also teaches applied psychology in the evening divi^on of Xavier. He Is manage of the civic dq;>artment of the Cindnnatt Chamber of Commerce and executive secretary of the Greater Cincinnati Savings and TJttai Excliange.' Ifore recently he was appointed chairman of the Camp and Hospital Committee of the Cincinnati and Hamilton County Chapter of the American Red Cross, of which he is a director. 
 H. Castner, 26 Hojrt Ave., New 1923 Paul 
Canaan, Conn. 

Mike Seyfrit, Carlinville. III., has joined the American Red Cross and volunteered for overseas -duty. 
FT. BENNING MISSION 
Eight C.S.C. priests aided in 
conducting a mission at one of 
the largest Army posts in the 
country. Fort Benning, Ga., in 
November. Services were in 16 
Chapels scattered over the 310 
sijuare miles of the Fort. The 
priests were Fathers Joseph E. 
Hart, Harold W. Riley, John J. 
Foley, James V. Lowery, Daniel 
M. Gleason, Philip C. Kelly. Walter 
K. Conway and Charles R. Calla­han. 

Glenn Batch, '28. reports that Ed Baker and Tie live in the same to\vn, Needham. Mass. 
 P. Harley» AFD, Ameriain Red 1925 John 
Cross, Camp Patrick Henry, Va. 

'Brother Ernest, CSX.* is founder and editor of "Junior Books," a bi-monthly published at Notre Dame, devoted to reviews of books for Catholic youth, for parents, teachers and librarians. 
John Kilkenny has completed a term as presi­dent of the Oregon State Bar. 
Tribute to the service of President Kilkenny was paid by the members of the bar followinjr the completion of his term of office. On behalf of the board and other members of the bar, the new president of the bar presented a beauti' ful pocket watch to John as an expression of the appreciation for his service. 
Wilfred Walz is the new prosecuting attorney in St Joe County. Ind. (South Bend), having; been elected on Nov. 7 in the Democratic sweep in the county. Dr. Thmddeas Goraczewski, '31. was re-elected county coroner at the same time. In the congressional district. Bob Grant, '28. LL.B., *30, South Bend, a Republican, won over MarthaU Kizcr, *30. of Plymouth, -with whom he had finished in law at Notre Dame. Bob lost St. Joe County but picked up the winning votes in the other three counties of the district 
1926 
Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661* Ironwood, Mich. 
Joe Shea* who as promotion manager returned to the Statler Hotel in Detroit from his army service, is now with the Statler in Washington, D- O., in a similar position according to the sturdy citizens who venture into the national capital. 
Blajor J(An W. Kane, Binghampton, N. Y., attended Lt. George Mcltzer. '41, when George was confined to a hospital in England as the result of critical head injuries which he suffered at the completion of an air mission over the Continent Because of the injuries George was later hospitalized in this country for five months and subsequently given a medical discharge. He is now back at Notre Dame as a graduate student in philosophy. 
Bay Keiser, formerly of the New York AP general desk, is now chief of the Phoenix, Ariz.. bureau of the Associated Press. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland. Station WSBT. South Bsnd. Ind. 
Joe Greeleyr M.A.. *27. club director of the American Red Cross, after successfully establish­ing Red Cross clubs and canteens in the Solomons and New Guinea, is now working in Burma. A native of Maine, he. at the age of 41. enlisted in the Army Air Corps after Pearl Harbor, refusing commissions from both the Army and Navy. After an accident at the con­clusion of a year's service, Joe was given a medical discharge from the Air Corps. But the 
G.I. bug had bitten him and the infection spread rapidly, so Joe did the next itossible thing, and found an outlet for his G.I. fervor and patriot­ism in the ARC as a club director. 
Malcolm Hatfield, St. Joseph, Hich.. was, for the fourth four-year term, elected probate judge of Berrien County at the Nov. 7 election. HaU colm has held the office since 1932 and has become nationally known for work and speaking and writing in his field. 
1928 Loa:s F. Buckley. 4481 MacArthar Blvd., Washington. D. C. 
From Back: 

John McMahon sent a note from the Industrial Hygiene Foundation. 4400 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh, transmitting a copy of "Public Safety" for September, published by the National Safety Council carrying a picture of Art Stenias as one of Detroit's safety program planners. It was the first time John had "seen** Art since the campus years. 
Herbert P. McCabe responded to my request for news with a fine letter from New York. He sees Louie Carr and Tom Parcell regularly. Louie is living in Spring Lake, has a family of foar children and is manager of the local bus company operating in Asbury Park and vicinity. Tom is practicing law in New York City and- is mmrried and has two children. He lives in East Orange. Herb mentioned that John Colridc is iMirtant manager of the Hotel Alamac in New York. He . met Turk Kelly strolling along Broadway one 
evening and «ees Jack Lavalle occasionally. 
Bud CaUagy is assistant corporation counsel of 

New York City and boasts of three "young uns" 
thus far. Ross Riley is in the Army and Wee 
Brown is superintendant of schools in East 
Orange. Herb was with Jim Carry in Boston 
for the Dartmouth game and in Baltimore for 
the Navy game-
Thanks for the news. Herb. Sorry you didn't 

tell us something about yourself. 
John Wingerter called me the other day when he was in Washington on business. . Jack had recently returned from an overseas assignment for "'nme." Incorporated. He is doing experi­mental work now for "Time" in this country, involving post-w-ar plans. He is married and lives in New York City. 
Congratulations to Bob Grant of South Bend on his re-election to Congress for a fourth term. 
Although Glenn Hat^ had not seen any '28 men. I appreciated his cooperation in r^pontKng to my appeal for news. Glenn lives in Needham. Mass.. and is with the Lehigh Portland Cement Company. 2.50 Stuart St.. Boston. 
Bick WcppBcr has left the War Production Board to accept a position with Bowman. Gam, Incoriiorated. 4865 Stenton Ave., Philadelphia* 
Since this is being written daring the month of November. I would like to suggest that we remember the following classmates who died since we left the campus: Sfattlww J. C^anMr, LL.D., '28: Sidney EMer.»A3., '26, LL.R. *28: Gewge FBcfc. Ji a Gray, HanM Halpte. Jac HehertM Gcarse Kiener/ BatewcO Leahy, Dr. BiO 0*Brieii, Fnuk OToale, Jae PtdK, Lea Sckaeider, Al Thavas and Ed WaUu I am asking our close friend. Father Gallagaa, to r«nember them in his Mass. 
I would also like to mention some of the deceased faculty members who were good friends of oar class incloding Fathers Albcrtian, Nicvw­laad. Stack, OVaUey, Farley, Brathtr Cypriam Jadge Waaten, Mr. HiMS, Knate »•<>•<. Ta« -HUb, Chariea Philiipa, Jafai Nkhaba* and Gcarge Keogaa. 
Ed Carringcr wrote from 2800 W. Grand Blvd.. Detroit; 
"I regret that I am unable to contribute some­thing worthwhile, but onfortanately I have had no contact with '28 men since long ago. In fact* when I received the note from Louie. I was making plans to attend a Notre Dame feather party at the Book-Cadillac hotel in the hopes of seeing some '28 faces in the gathering. 
"I am making scnoe attempt to support Back's position in Washington; I am a field repre­sentative for Detroit regional WPB." 
Jae Gcrachty's letter from 77 Nottingham Bd. Rochester. N. T., Was as- welcome as New York up-state returns were to BUI Jnws and me on election ni^ t Joe writes as follows: 
"Jae Debott is still in Geneva, managing the lea^ng haberdashery shop. Still a bachelor, bat an ardent N-D fan each and every Saturday afternoon, even after" the Navy, Army games. Jaha Latsea is city health officer in Geneva and doing a fine job. He is married and. I believe, has two or three children. Jimaiy Bcirie, is running a farm between Geneva. N. Y. and Can­andaigna. New York and, on Saturday ni^^ts, he plays the fiddle in an ordiestra in order that all his friends from the various committees may have a little relaxation. 
**Jtte SpiOase is in the Merchant Marine in the west some plaee. Up until his entrance in the Armed Forces. Joe had a thriving law business in Geneva. Dan Carhett is practicing law in Rochester, Is married and is well on bis way to having a N.D. football team. He has the four backfield men now and no doabt will soon have the line. Jaha Stewart is living in Virginia, ju^ oatside of Washington, and is wwking for one of the leading papers in Washington, D. C. Charlie Shdaasky is still living in Long Island outside of New York CHty. 
"Weil. Loni<e, as for your-reporter, I am still connected with the leading brokerage hoaae of Rochester. N. Y.. George D. R Bonbriadit ft Ca, 100 Powers Bldg. Have been with the same firm since August 29, 1929. I see Larry CaHacy of Vermont fame, every so often when he is sent to Rochester to examine the banks.' Larrr is married and lias one chikl His permanent address is New York City. 
"Would like to hear some news about Barry 

Bfahaaey from Wyoming and T«M MrMahaw from Minnesota who used to room in good oM Corby." 
Thanks to Frank Galardy* it is pomble to include here some news from New York Ckj. Frank writes from 1306 IVoy Ave, Brooklyn. as follows: 
"Lt. CoL Tom Noon is now at the Marine Air Corps Base, Cherry Point, N. C, after siJending 18 months in the South Pacific His family, wife and three boys, are with him. Capt. Georse Connor is in the Signal Corps in Washington. 
D. C. 
"Ralph Garza lias been a Kew York resident for about two years, representing the Bonco Nacional de Conuricio Extereor, S. A. 
"I ^en t a verj- enjoyable evening at the Army game rally with John and Mrs. Antus and Bud and Mrs. Topping. John continues quite the legal man in New York where he is now living. Bud is a Port Washingtonian during the spare hours from Johns Manville." 
Also rallying at the Army game reunion, according to Frank, were Bill Cronin, the Bob Hamiltons, Pinky Blartin, '27, now of L.cbanon. Pa., the Cortlands, Justin Corcran, *27, Jack Lavdle and Kansas City-resident Bill Pluechel, '27, air express manager of TWA. 
From Capt. Dan Bradley: somewhere in New Guinea: 

"I'm a bit of a veteran now with two ciim­paigns and one actual skirmish under my belt, the last being at our last landing when my detachment was ambushed by a Jap patrol and Bradley sweated it out in a ditch for what seemed like an eternity with grenades and rifle bullets whistling in the dark. 
"I've met few N. D- men since joining up over two years ago. Steve Richtarsic, ex. '29, (now a major, M.C-. in England) was with me for a good while at Drew Field in Florida and we had fun, both our wives being with us. Edith, his wife, had their second youngster around the first of the year. 
*'At Greenville. S. C, Jim Biggins. '31, was with me and his wife made my life pleasant with her good cooking and hospitality. Jim is overseas as flight surgeon with a fighter group. He's a captain. Incidentally, I've Jim's and Steve's AFO but some of the boys will have to write to get them. That's one way of getting mail. Jim, by the way, has a swell boy. 
"Then I had a big surprise at this base. I went down to a field hospital to see what these bloody hospital jokers were doing to screw up a poor surgeon with a line outfit when who do I bump into but Capt. Guy Loranger, '2S, whom I hadn't set eyes on since June 3, 1928. There he was. looking as if he could go a fast three rounds. We recognized one another instantly. Guy has four children, one N. D.» three St. Mary's. 
"Lately I've been hearing from some' of the boys and Lonis Backley might like the dope. Ed (B*ldyn) Brennan, '28. the demon Dodger fan. is a resident of Waltham, Mass-, but still a Flatbush rooter at heart. He and his lovely wife, Kay, have foiu: little girls. 
"William (Cross-conntry Bill) Brown, '29, late of Racine; now Wauwatosa. Wis-, and Allis Chal­mers big shot, has four daughters and twin sons on the way, although how he, knows is beyond me. But my erstwhile roommate was always a sharpy, so could be. 
-Vic Fiiher, *28, after North Africa. Sicily. Salerno, for two years, did a tour in the hospital and now has been pulled back to the States (he must live right) as instructor at the engineer school at Ft. Belvoir. Va. All of which didn't make his pretty wife, Frances, mad. John Seiter is still in Lexington, Mo., still a bachelor but still a civilian. Father Harry Ryan, '27, is in Iowa, where he's switched from pigs and chickens to breeding saddle horses. He tells me one won a prize recently. He's one of ray most faithful spies. 
"A! Taylor, '28, Father O'Hara'a server at 
5:30 Mass. (how did he ever get up?), finally came out of hiding, no doubt inspired by the example of French patriots, and wrote me a letter. He's married and has a daughter. Al's with the Federal Department of Justice. 

"Ed Brcnnan tells me another of the Brooklyn gang, George Byrne. '28, has married a very Powers* tj*pe of gal and was ready to hand out cigars any time, but no word of the result. Ed also says Joe Lenihan. '20, is in the Navy and seeing active service; Al Duffy, *29. is still a hustling barrister in New York. Harry Ryan says Jim Quinn. '27. is also a naval lieutenant. 
"That's about all except I don't remember if I told you the Bradley's have Ann Marie, born June 18, 1942. About that time I was beating the drum preparing for martial efforts and probably didn't write." 
A V-mail from Phil O'Connor, Iceland: 

"Eddie Rafter, '28, and I used to hold club meetings after Sunday Mass last spring, but he packed his barracks bag some time ago and moved to warmer climes. Father Fitzgerald* C.S.C., was up here on the 'Rock' for a time also, but I never got to meet him. 
"Tom Noon, *28. was a lieutenant colonel down in the South Pacific the last time I heard from his wife—he's probably a full colonel somewhere else by now." 
Wa>-ne H. Ewing, RT 2 c. is overseas out of the Fleet P. O.. San Francisco, according to a very thoughtful note from his father. 
A good-sized chunk of the remarkable showing this season of the Cleveland Rams in the foot­ball pro league should be handed to Joe Benda* the team's assistant coach, who was on leave from St. John's College in Minnesota. When the Green Bay Packers beat the Rams in an exciting tussle. Corly Lambcan, Packer coach, said the Rams were the most spirited team in the league. • 
 Joseph P. AIcNamara. 1314 N. 

1929 
Major 
Court House Rd., Arlington, Va. 

Rev. Joseph Voorde, CS.C , spent a 30-day vacation with his parents in South Bend, before reporting at the foreign missionary seminary in Washington for reassignment to missionary work in India. He returned from India in 1941 and has been in the U. S. since. 
The "Indiana Pharmacist" reports as follows: 

"Wilfrid J. Ullridi. first vice-president of the Indiana Pharmaceutical Association, represents the third generation of his family to operate the Ullrich Drug Store of Aurora. Bom in Aurora 36 years ago. Wilfrid attended St- Joseph College, later receiving his Ph.D., from Notre Dame in 1929. The same year he married Eleanor KUmek of South Bend and the Ullrich fomily is now one of the largest pharmacist families in the state—six children, four boys and two' girls. 
"Wilfrid has held the offices of third and second vice-president in the state association and is also secretary of the Southeastern Indiana Drug Club. Active in local civic affairs, he is past president and director of the Aurora Com­mercial Club; secretary of the Aurora Rotary Club: secretary of the Aurora-Council, flight s of Columbus; troop committeeman and former scoutmaster, Boy. Scouts: treasurer of the Dear­born County Tuberculosis Association; vice-president of the Dearborn County Infantile paralysis Association, and director of the Aurora Farmers Fair Association. 
"Since the above offices, together with the operation of his pharmacy, leave htm with extra time on his hands, he also has a sideline which he considers his hobby! News reporting I He does admit, however, that he has had a little difficulty lately acting as local correspondent for the 'Cincinnati Enquirer,' 'Cincinnati Post^ and the United Press. Like a good Hoosier, though, he covers and reports all the local basketball games. Whew!" 
1990 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St, Philadelphia, Pa. 
From Harold l>nke: 
Paal Heidkamp is our first source of news. His interesting report follows: 
"Art Peterson is a very busy furniture exec. Also has four children, and lives in Evanston, 

III. Chariie SmaUwood is with the Carroll Con­struction Co., and the last I knew was kept ver>­busy. He lives in River Forest, HI., and has four children. Jerry Holland is still with F.H.A. and claims that Pat and Mike wilt be prospects for the football team about 1960. Bob Bey, last I knew was with Grey, Hunter. Stenn. CP.A's in the Pure Oil BIdg. I see Benny Benedetto at lunch occasionally. Royal Higgins is in business for himself—consultant radio engineer. He's the same old Roy—bubbling over with friendship and enthusiasm. As for myself. I'm with Tub­man, Pond & Co. Been there ever since 1930. Cele and I are the proud parents of five, three boys and two girls." (Thanks, Paul) 
Next, we are indebted to Bill Bromann for additional sidelights on fellows in and around Chicago. Bill says: 
"I am still living in Oak Park, have a nice home and a family of three children; two girU and one boy. I am in the butcher supply busi­ness in Chicago and also manufacture refrigera­tors, but during the war we are kept busy supplying the armed forces with other necessary items. Tom Foran was in Chicago about a month ago. He is working for a big contractor in Otiifomia and likes it very much. Joe Habcr­kom and his family are now living in Florida. Joe has a nice job in Miami, but he comes back to Chicago every once in a while to aee his many friends. Hilton Fox is a big beer baron. He is nmning the Peter Fox Brewing Co. in Chi­cago, Grand Rapids and Marion. Ind. I see Jahniue Moran quite often. He is living here in Oak Park. Bill Miller, a i.g. in the Navy, paid me a visit when he passed through on his way to Princeton. I would like to hear from some of the old gang, such as Walt Scboland, Georse Winfcler and Jolin Bitter.*' 
To make things more interesting, we have a note from Tom Marphy, which reads as follows: 
"Before leaving Franklin, Pa., I occa^onally saw Gene Flcdcenstein who is now manager of the Keystone Electric Co. Gene I3 married and has two daughters. He hasn't put on much weight and looks the same as he did at school. My old friend. Bob Wcachler, is in the shoe business with his father in Erie. Bob is married and has a daughter. After 14 years with L. Sonnebom Sons. I resigned my position as assist­ant technical director and accepted the position of asnstant general manager of manufacture of the Barber Asphalt Corp. My main oflJce is at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, although a great deal of my time will be spent at our refinery and lab in Barber, N. J. I am moving my wife. dan^ter and son to 705 Pierpont St, Kahway. 
X. J." Cltanks, Tom, and good luck in your new job) 
While in Baltimore for the Navy game. I. ran into C* J> SaHivanf who is with Petroleum Heat and power, and Sully was quite anxious to have me extend an invitation through this column for all Thirties to be sure and look him up if they have occasion to get to Baltimore. I also had the good fortune to meet up with Bemie Con­roy and bis charming wife down from Pittsburgh to see 113 take a licking from Navy and also had a quick handshake and word w^ith Clarence Kozak who is in government work. Much the same can be said for both "Kozie" and Bernie in that they haven't changed much. 
I went to New York last week to attend the Army rout and at the rally on Friday night shared a table with Dick Bloom and his party-Dick and I did some scouting around to find Thirties and really did all right. The first one we met was Earl Barry and his perennial pipe-Then along came Ed Arthar, looking as youthful as the day he left school. Harry Dnves nearly slipped away because we didn't recognize him at first in his Army uniform and "looie" bars. Warren Forcl had a table right up in the front row, so it was easy to pick him out and get over to exchange greetings and meet his lovely wife. Warren helped us locate Tim Toomey. gracious and friendly as ever. 
Jti3t aa festivities were about to start got a fleeting glance of Larry Cronin but before I could get to him he disappeared, but who should be on the spot but Chack Rohr, so had a minute with him. Later a distinguished looking gent was hurrying past our table and we thought he looked familiar—it was none other than Loo Stettler. Lou was in a hurry, so we let him off with a promise to look us up or write soon.. 
Next to pop up with a biff friendly smtle and handshake was Tom Lantry. TTiere were prob­ably some others we missed, but when we called it a night v?e felt pretty happy that we had the good fortune to run into so many of the old classmates. We're stopping at that because the next day did not turn out so plesr^antly in Yankee Stadium. 
ESCAPES FROM JAP CAMP 
. Lt. Col. John H. McGee, ex. '30, Mtnot. 
- N. D., is believed to be a patient in a New Guinea hoapital after spendinff more than two years as a Japanese prisoner on ABndanao Island and after service with vaerriUas in the Philippines followinr his escape from a Jap prison camp. 
John was evaeaatcd from Bfindanao, it is beliered, after he and his band of cnCTriUas' assisted in the rescue of 83 United States officers, and enlisted men who had escaped from a Japanese prison ship after the vessel was torpedoed by an American sabmarine. Ilie 83 had been Jap prisoners for two and one half years. 
John was at Notre Dame in 1926-27 and then entered West Point, where he was commissioned in 1931... His wife and yoanv danrhter lire in PlyroonA, Wis. 

Wendell Lensinx, Evansville. Ind.. was elected county probate judge in the Nov. 7 elecUon. Wendell was appointed to the bench early in 1943 by Governor Schricker to fill an unexpired term, so this was hia first campaign for the post. He won by 4,900 votes, standing highest as to majority, among the county Democratic candi­dates. A substantial decline in juv^iile delin­quency in the county was attributed in large measure to his handling of juvenile matters and especially his enforcement of the curfew law. 
From a U.S. troop carrier base in the Euro­pean Theater of Operations comes wtan] of the excellent services of Father Ed FltzferaU. C& C chaplain of a w^ing within the unit. Father Fitz served as "padre" for the wing on two invasions: southern France and Normanily. 
1931 
Former chief deputy county treasurer oi Clar­field County, Pa.. Cpl. Ton Price, DoBois, Pa.. is serving "down under" with a veteran infantry division somewhere in New. Guinea. 
From Tom Monahan, Areola. Ulinois: 
"I saw the coffee magnate of south Texas, Bill Beming, this summer. He is still liis same old self, and the true southern host. Might soggest anyone visiting south Texas to visit Bill at Bee-ville. Texas. Ran into Lt. (jg) Mike Kenny in the Roosevelt Hotel in New Orleans tliis sommer. He was then stationed at Gulfport. Miss. Galled on Jim Barr, ex. '31, at Elsa. Texas, but he was on his vacation. Gordon (Tom) Lawler, '30, is seeing Hawaii now in a Navy uniform." 
Bud Tnohy is now with the FBI in* N, Y. 6. Lt. Cmdr. Larry (Moon) Mollina was in October named athletic director of the Iowa Pre-FIight school. Frank Kersjes is sales manager of the I^acey Webber company. Kalamazoa Mich. 
1932 
Lt. James K. CoUiiu, 1133 Manckcster Av»., Norfolk. Va. 
From Jim Collins: 
Lieutenant Bill McCormick who iias l>een ensineerins officer at tiie Amphibious Trainlns Base at Little Creek, Va., for the past year ha3 been detached, and is assigned to a landinK craft repair ship. He expects to be in Jackson­ville for about two months -while putting the ship in commission. 
Lt. (JE) Paul O'Toole has left this area and reported to the Armed Guard Center at Brooklyn Navy Yard for duty on a merchant troop trans­port. 
Lt. Ed Melchione is intelligence officer with a motor torpedo boat SQuadron which was formed on the east coast. He held a similar position in Chicago, for some time and then was sent to the Advanced Intelligence School. He says they had a rough time ridins the PT boats this fall, but he is extremely pleased with his present assignment. 
Gafae Moran, SK 3 c. writes from Newfoundland that the duty is very satisfactory up there, and that the weather is no worse than Indiana's. He is still looking for the first other ND man in that area, however. 
Charley Hitxelberser is with a Red - Cross unit and is in the South Pacific war zone with a Marine regiment. He was in Hawaii long enough to attend a Notre Dame Club meeting there with Bob Lee, John Litcher and Hank Dnulty, the latter three all lieutenants (jg)s. Hitzie has moved on from there, and Litch has moved on to what the Navy innocently calls "the forward area." Bob has been attending the University of Hawaii for special courses in safety engi­neering which he can probably use very well since he is supervising the loading and unload­ing of ammunition ships. 
Paul Daly is a captain in the Army Hedieal Corps and is stationed in the Hawaliian Island area. He is one of the resnlar attendants of the ND ehib'a meetiiias there. IndidentaUy, Lt. naa k Leaky in a the efaib's ascakor Tceestly. He is attached to the Sobmarine CoBBand and is settiog up recreational programs in Uw fwward areas. 
Kay PfeiCer has been appointed advertMing manager and sales manager of the Onuains Distillery Corp.. in Louisville. Ted Balpia writes that he sees very &w of the ND men around Indianapolis as most of them are in the service or inst too busy on their home front iolis for mndi social activity. 
Shep ChevaBicr is running his sheep randi near Helena. Hont. He is married and has four children. Lt. Dan Hanlay is on doty with the Naval TVainins Station at "Knasare Island. Calif. Lt. Au k Cad has been ordered to the Naval Air Station. Alameda. Callt: Nardr Ha>­man is a lieutenant (ig) in the Navy, and is stationed in England. 
Lt. CkarUe ttm has been detached from Camp Bradford and ordered to the Padfie as an aide to Admiral Conolly. 
Father H. A. Heintakill, C.S.C who is a lieutenant in the Navy Chaplain Corps. Rtomed recently from the invasion of southern France aboard the lUagL His ship, a small carrier, was mentioned in press releases for being in the thick of the entire battle. After they com­pleted the invasion they went to Haha where he visited several andent monasteries and con­vents, niey put in at Alexandria and were the first American warship in that harbor in over four years. He'mentioned that Lt. Ibit y Bans . '36. was the communications officer on the .diip. 
Beb WUtecattm. ex. '36, is on duty at. the Naval Supply Depot here as a storekeeper. He is from Greencastle, Ind. 
Lt. (JK) Den OTaale has been sent to the Allied Military Government school at Princeton, and at the completion of the four month coarse e.xpects immediate overseas duty. 
Bariy O'iEecfe is a lieutenant commander having been promoted to that rank recently.' He is one of the first members of the class to he commissioned in the Navy, and has had con­siderable sea duty both in the Atlantic and the Padfie. He is now stationed in Washington. Congratulations, Barry, and I believe that ranks you as the top naval man in omr class. 
Lt. (jg) Jim Warden is stationed in Pitts­burgh but is doing considerable travelHng aroond the cotmtry fcHr the Navy. 
Didc Bsney is living in Philadelphia, and-is passing out cigars as be and' his wife have a new son bom Oct. 21. Dick is with Conovei^-Nast publications. 
Staa ripahki hiade bis annual trip to the Army game and reports that among the. many he saw there were Gsat Cennally. Fran Odiick, Neil Barky and Art MrMin—a. Stan writes that Jelui Hailcy, '31, is still in Dixon and has temporarily left the drug' business to work in a defense plant, and that Dee Cataey. '31, is a captain in the Army Hedical Corps' and is stationed in Burma. Ben Sahraty is a naturalisa­tion examiner in Chicago. 
Lt. DaaSyaa is still in diarge of war pn^ duction problems at the Norfolk Navy Tard and expects tO' be in Chicago early in Deceodier for a national meeting of war prodoction.siipervison. 
A letter from Jim Trailer, revealed that his brother. Bab, '29, was a captain in the carps of engineers, U. S. Army. and. from the latest iit­formation, was somewhere in France.-'- Jim • is now in Chicago as vice president and chief engi­neer of the Royal Electric Manufacturing Co. Jim 0*Sluasline9sy, assistant general attorney for the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad in Chicago and one of the cit>-*s leaders in the Catholic Action movement, addressed the South Bend Catholic Forum on Oct- 16, on his C, A. activities. His one-time N. D. roommate. Rev. John H. Wilson* CS-C, vocational director of Holy' Cross Seminary on the campus, was the chairman of the meeting. Jim lives in Hubbard Woods, Chicago suburb, and has two children. 
BiU Beminff wrote that Lt. Jim Mclnemy, ex. '41, flying Marine, was stationed in Bee-ville. Texas, at the Naval Air Training Station as instructor. Lt. J. E. Krall. '29. was also at the same station. 
1933 Tiffiie Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave., Chicaffo, 

Jim Kenny, Niles. Mich., is a U.S.N.R. lieu­tenant, junior grade. Through FPO, San Fran­cisco, comes word that Lt. (jg) Ed Gaassclin has run across Jack O'Shaoffnessy, Jales de la Verffne, Seton Staley and Charles Medland in his travels. 
Pvt. Bfike Koken, South Bend, was wounded while serving vrith the field artillery in France on Aug. 7. Hike entered the Army in Sspt, 1943, and trained at Fort Bragg. N. C. He was sent to England in March. 1944, and landed in France two days after the invasion. In South Bend before his induction Mike was supervisor for the Tucker Trucking Lines. 
Lt. Cmdr. Ijaden Kempf, Staten Island, N. Y.. returned lately from the South Pacific on a 30-day rest leave, having been in the PTO for two years. Lucien had completed his second tour of duty in the Pacific as an officer of a patrol-sqoadron of Na\'y flying boats, a post in which he participated in many thrilling rescues at sea of Army and Navy pilots shot do^^'n in combat. 
A delightful letter from Spike Dillman's wife reveals that his address is APO, San Francisco, and that wherever Spike goes he meets "some­one who knew someone" at Notre Dame- At OCS, Fort Belvoir, Va., last summer he ran into Raynond Kane, '38. 
1934 
Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Brook Maner, FleasantviRe, K. Y. 
From Joe Glennon: 

In October's issue, I mentioned that Lt. Gcrrj-Farrell was up in the front with Patton's 3rd Army. About the time we were reading that item, Gerry had sacrificed his life for God, Country and Notre Dame. We shall al%vays remember his manner and rugged individualism, which won him a host of friends. Our sincerest sympathy to his wife, the former Lucille Oden­bach, sister of John'and Bob Odenbacfa, and his parents. 
Received a card from Capt Fagan's wife. Gen. She was visiting with Jim in Chicago, where he is stationed (address—Illinois Athletic Club). While there they celebrated Jim Jr.'s first birthday. 
Recently I came across the following news item. "How would you like to receive four of the Sacraments in Peter's Basilica in Rome? . . . That recently happened to Pfc- A. C. Trost of New York and Pvt David Dean of Brooklyn, who received the sacraments of Baptism, Penance and Confirmation one day, and the Holy Euchar­ist the next. . . , *niey were instructed in the faith by Pf& ^^oent McAloon, a graduate of Notre Dame, and an ardent Catholic Actionist.*' Nice going, Vince!! 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 
Albert C. Hitzelberger, '32, Uticau N. 

Y.y has arrived in Hawaii to serve the 
armed forces as an American Red Cross 
assistant field director. Until his Red 
Cross appointment, Al was employed by 
the Savage Arms Corporation, and pre­
viously was assistant resident manager 
of Whiteley and Buckalew, Utica. 
Down in New Orleans recently I was pleased to find E^ Sporl keeping things under control at United Fruit. Harry Spoil is in the insurance business and was in Boston witnessing the Notre Dame-Dartmouth game. 
John Roche, who is living on Staten Island and has two youngsters who keep him tied down, sends the following news item: 
"Last month, I saw Joseph I. Hayes when be lost his father. Joe lives at S02 Stunmer Ave.. Newark. N. J.; he is working for the Navy Department in that city. Joe is married and has a young daughter. Frank J, Brady married a charming girl from Chicago, his home town, last April. They are now living at 3563 83 St. Jackson Heights. L. I., N. Y. Frank came to 
N. Y. with a Detroit engineering firm to work on a Navy job for a year. Frank tells me his brother-in-law. Didc CahiO from Chicago, now lives in St. Paul, Minn. 
"Tom Harrington is now a Navy lieutenant out in the Pacific, after a short tour of duty in the Atlantic Tom and his wife have a son, just one year old. In a letter received last week, he told of twisting his knee while playing l.all with eome of the crew. 
"Like myself. Wells RofaiMin is working for the Army Engineers. He is in the Great I^akes Survey district and I am in the New York district. He has a son and daughter the same age as my two children, and is living in Detroit (889 Philip Ave). Norb Sdienkel is still in the contracting business in Fort Wayne, Ind. Brady tells me Norb and his wife expect to visit New York about Oct 12th. 
"Ed Filzmanrice of Indiana is in the Navy; the last I heard of him he was in Brazil. (Bed) Mike Fox of Indianapolis is in the Navy; he gets around quite a bit,—New York. Washington and ^ I^ndon. Tom Dalton and Walt Dnpny are in the Navy. Ed Philbin is in the Army and ha? been with the Signal Corps in the South Pacific for a long time. 
"I met Charley Hoisking at the New York Club meeting; it was the first time I had seen him in years. His brother Frank was killed when his bomber was brought down in France. BUI has just been commissioned in the Army. Jack BbDen, who is in the Navy, married a South Bend girl recently. I was sorry to read in the "Alumnus" that Willie Green's brother, Tom, *33. had died recently. 
**JiM Forrest reports that he met Jim O'Brien* who conducts a plumbing and mill supply busi­ness in Pittsfield. Mass. He also reports that he has recently seen Lfi. George Shields, Charles Haisfcinff, Bob Hamilton. BiU Fromm, and Chick BCara» all of whom are well and giving their utmost towards the war effort. Jim. who is married and has a son, commutes from Bridge­port to New York." 

Lt. Bob Halperin, who may have been the first American ashore on the beaches of Normandy on D-Day, enjoyed a hard-won leave at his home in Chicago. BiU Haggerty has been appointed superintendant of schools at Rheingold, Tex. 
A B-17 pilot and operation officer. 1st Lt. Bob Halpin, New Haven. Conn., entered the AAF Redistribution Station in Miami Beach in late September. Bob flew 33 missions during 23 months in the European theater, winning the DFC and the Air Medal with three clusters. 
Maarice Rigante, in combat with the 14th Army Cbrps service command. Southwest Pacific, has been promoted to first lieutenant in the Quartemtaster Corps. For his outstanding part in. the Bougainville campaign. Maurice was awarded a combat star. 
1935 
Fnnkbii C. Hocfcreiter, 2118 Tramsan St.. New Orleana U, La. 
OHver Chajrie', permanent address now is 3833 N. Harris Blvd., Uilwaukee. Oliver is with the Cleaver-Brooks Company, same city. Tom Cndey, vice president of the U. S. Truck lanes, Cleveland, has moved to Chicago. 
When the Rangers stormed ashore on the islands off Leyte in early November. I>t L t Johnny Harphy was in the thick of the operation. Sit. BW Banar, Camp Wolters, Texas, entered OCS at Fort Benning, Ga., in August. 
-'•••I* A. John has just been made depart­ment supervisor in the insecticide plant of E. I. duFont de Nemours & Company at Tacoma. Wash. This plant was just recently acquired by duPont and Joe will be one of the key men for duPont in its operation. He has been with duPont at the Grasselli Chemical plant in East Chicago. Ind., since his graduation, and in recent years has had a broad experience in the Insecticide Department there. 
Just prior to Joe's departure from East Chi­cago on Nov. 18, he was honored at a party given by his duFont associates and was pre­sented with luggage, brief cases and a wrist watdi. Joe is married and is the father of two dildren. Joseph. Jr. age 5, and Andrea Irene, age 2. Joe's family will follow him to Tacoma as soon as he is able to solve the difficult problem of living quarters. 
1936 
JoMph F. Muueeld, 34 Fifth St., Pellura, N. Y. 
Fiom Jw Haiuidd: As is usually the case, the number of letters coming this way have been on the slim side. 
But, with the pressure of moving jto.a new domicile; we are forced to confess that even these few letters are paclced inside a yet-to-he^ found crate, drawer or what have you. We'll pass them alon? to you in the next issue. 
Amons the letters was one from Andy Hel­modi—a very welcome one. It was good to hear from you. Andy, and now that you have broken the ice, please drop me a note whenever you find time. 
Lt. John Moran sent us a flock of i>ost cards from such interesting places as Italy, France, and England—all of which arrived in the same mail. John is just as faithful a contributor as he was a filler of this space. 
Has Marek dropped us a note from Treasure Island where he's now stationed. He is doing physical education work and. from reports we have received, a bang-up job of it. 
We've been spending some time in Washing­ton recently, doing work for Uncle Sam's Treas­ury Department. On one of our visits we chatted for a few minutes with Mrs. Jack Murphy. ITie charming Mrs. Jack, an M. D. in her own right, reports that Jack is now a lieutenant in the Navy Medical Corps, serving at sea. 
We saw a few of the boys, class of '36, the night of the Army game—a sad memory. . Need­less to say there was none too much jollity around and about New York that night At the Penn Bar. Capt. Luke Titman of the Marines told us that he was stationed in Washington. 
Tom Shells was also there. Tom is doing a great job handling the affairs of Capt Glen Miller. With Tom Fennelly was his lovely wife, Mary Virginia, They have two children and are living in Orange. N. J. Tom is employed in the aircraft industry. Tom reported that Tom Keenan is in the Navy and is stationed overseas. 
Two or three weeks ago. Mrs. Mansfield and I ran into Ear] Brown and Milt Feipal at Toots Shores here in New York. They were in town for the Sports' Writers' luncheon on the Monday following their game with Yale. The boys have had rather tough sledding at Dartmouth this year, due entirely to the lack of material. But they're still optimistic. 
Tom Proctor called me the other day and we've made a date for luncheon one day soon. Tom reports that his duties keep him pretty much on the go, traveling around the country. 
Ed Crotty, '37, has been doing a great job as end coach at Brown University. We're looking forward to seeing Ed when Brown plays Colum­bia here in New York. 
Our cousin, Ed Mansfield. '3-1. of Leaks-ville. N. C.. and Denver, popped into town some time back. As we write this, Ed is probably on one of the fighting fronts with his company of engineers. He told us stories of the grand times he had with Gene Blish and Jack Sheehan and the Denver boys. 
Dr. Ken Laws is in town at the moment We're hoping to get in touch with him within a day or two to welcome him and his charming bride, the former Betty Jane I,ahrman. They were married in the Log Chapel, Nov. 9. We extend our best 
"As I stepped off the gangplank after our ship had docked at Bizerte, North Africa, the first person I saw was Eddie Caldwell, now a Navy lieutenant," said L t Fred Carideo who was home in South Bend on 30-day leave in October. Fred was in command of an LCI in the invasions of both Normandy and southern France. He also ran into another former N. D. Quarterback, this time in England. He met Se t Ckwk O'Keillr, '38, in church on a Sunday morning in a small English town. 
Brotker Christian. C.S.C., was appointed prin­cipal of the new Catholic Central High SehooL Monroe, Mich., in July. Serving in New Guinea, Major Geotxe Marphy is a Sight surgeon with a troop carrier unit of the Fifth Air Forea io the Pacific Sgt Tony LaDoIce started trans­portation corps OCS. New Orleans, in August 
Lt. Cmdr. John Hohan, cjo FPO, San Frandsco; who practised law with Joe HcGIynn, '12, East St Louis. III., has written: "the only person that I have met that I know is Joe Zwers, '38. I immediately put him in my flotilla. At the present time he is attached to my staff and a fine lad he is." The first service Jack saw was at Attn. 
 Foler, Apt. 1-D, Unit 4. PfaM­

1937 Paul 
vrood Apt,, Hartsdftle. N. T. 

From Paul Foley: I am just fresh from a plenary session of the Bosphorous Vodka and Straight Poker Society —^which, since about half of its members are . Americans, is as close as I've found in Turkey to a Notre Dame club. 
I left New York on Sept. 12 by Clipper. You've probably already -seen the routes of Army Transport Command as published in "Life." so I can tell you we flew the North Atlantic via Newfoundland and sat down the folIowinK morn­ing through a wooly sort of fog onto the River Shannon at Foynes, Ireland. Irish rain—which I swear one cannot actually see but is neverthe­less drenching and marrow chilling—^held as for two days which we spent in Adare, County Limerick. Ireland is green—I'm sorry I can't say much else for that portion I saw. Its chief advantage -was Guiness* stout on draft at a shilling a pint and John Jameson's 12 year oM Irish whiskey at a shilling a pop—the latter is Ireland's substitute for central heating systems-
We flew by day along Europe's western edge, sighting only Portugal, to Casablanca where we saw the last of the Clipper. After a day or two In that part of the world we shoved off—always by aii^-to Oran, Algiers and eventoallr Cairo where I spent a week prowling the bazaars, ^tting under a hot pyramid and sinsins xancoos songs with an American newspaperman tm tli* terrace of Shepherd's Hotel. ­
Eventually my transfer was punched and left for' Istanbol via Jerosalem—^wbere we sat down very brieOy at drab and son drmehed Lida airport, from whidi qwit Jerusalem is visibW in the bills. That's as close as I got to a pilgrimage. Was utting in a steaming tent for ten minutes drinking the local variety of soda POP~-a ^rmpy concoction of oranges and old corset stays. 
I spent one day in the TVirldsh coastal town of Adana. thence a few hoars in Ankara, the capita], and finally in a crowded Jankers trans­port to Istanbul—Bedlam on the Bosphorous. 
This is a wonderful city. It is onbelievably andent yet has a pulse beat of roughly ei^ t to the bar. It has been, and still is, the scene of more international shennanigans than any spot in the world. Its population is beantifolly polyglot, largely westernized aa to externals and generally most intriguing. 
I have been living with our other news man here in a house of rather dubious modem architecture on a bluff overlooking the Gcrfden Horn, and the Bosphorous at a point where the latter flows into the sea of Marmora. fVom our second floor balcony we get a view that would rate two pages in any Cook's catalog. The weather is superb, the air is ct«ur> sharp as crystal and moderately warm. 
While I have been here only about three weeks I like it very much and we are doing an im­portant and good iob. 
I have heard by transoceanic grapevine that BiQ McNaHy is an intelligence ofiBcer with the Ninth V. S. Navy at Miami. . . just by way of showing that I'm still in harness like an Anatolian pony. 
nRme now for a brief shot of Turkish coffee —^which I heartily endorse, along with rnxrkish 
Prendergast Ridge, a dominating landmark 
on the United States' powerful base of Attn, 
was officially named for Lt- Jos2ph Prender­
gast, '36. 
Joe. killed on May 29, 1943, gave his life 
leading an advance patrol over the ridge to 
determine the force of the enemy. Greatly 
outnumbered, he ordered his patrol to with­
draw, and while maintaining fire to cover 
the disengagement, he and several of his 
men were killed. 
While at Notre Dame. Joe was a member of the tennis team for three years and was managing editor of "The Scholastic," in his senior year. He was also author of "Splin­ters from the Press Box." a "Scholastic" sirorts column. 
Thomas P. Prendergast of Ware, Massadin­setts. father of Joe. learned of the heroism of his son when he noted the story of "Pren­dergast Ridge" in a recent issue of "^ e Infantry Journal." Recognizing the company and division of his son, he wrote to Wash­ington and received confirmation of his sur­mise from Capt. Nelson L. Drununond, who had just finished writing the historical moniv graph of Attu. 
In his letter to Mr. Prendergast, Capt. Drummond told of the engagement: "In order 

PRENDERGAST RIDGE NAMED FOR JOE, '36 
to protect the flank against possible Japanese positions along the high ridge line, a patrol under the command of Lt. Joseph Prender­gast moved up thru the saddle of the pass learns across to Holtz Bay. Their mis^on was to learn that Japanese forces held the other ^de of the pass and then to attempt working along the north side of the main ridge line. Lt. Prendergast led his patrol thru the fog-blurred pass and a short way along the exposed snow slides which dropped almost vertically towards Holtz Bay. Since he was greatly outnombered. suffering casual­ties and unable to find cover alon^ the steep snow* fidd, Lt. Prendergast ordered his patrol to withdraw back to the Sarana side. While maintaining fire to cover the disengagement he and several of his men were killed." 
Information procured hy the patrol oul^ed the Americans to proceed, and take the ridge. 
"I am sony that words can do so little to help the sad shock that vour son's death most have been," wrote Capt. Dmramond. He condoded, "May I offer this thoo^t-^ althoo^ he had so few years, in the mtrds of the infantrymen who followed his leader­ship along the deadly* lagged mountain ridge:; of Atta, he accunplished more than most men during their full spans.** 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ciKsrettes. My address: U. S. Office of War Information. 134-136 Istiklal Caddesi: Istanbul. Turkey. 
From Hanr Pierce: 
"Thla afternoon I've been sitting here »t this headquarters having a session vrith Jim MacDe-Titt. I see him almost every day as at present I'm a liaison officer to Jim's division. As always. Jim seems to find Notre Dame men, so between. the two of us we've sent quite a few names down to John Hfnkel who has started the Notre Dame Club of Italy. BIacDe\*itt and Hinkcl have had two private audiences with the Pope. On his last visit. Jim and Connor Cronin spent a few days at the home of the Irish minister to the Vatican. 
"I came over here last April (I'm practically a rookie). Hie'first week over, I met Lt- Dan Finn, '37. whom I knew at N.D., and also Lt, Cy Connor whose ship happened to be in Naple? at the time. Dan Finn was responsible for my setting the assignment I have now for which I owe him a world of thanks. Dan is in France now^. The same week in April I visited my brother at Cassino whom I hadn't seen for near­ly four years, so I had a happy time. 
"We were sorry to hear that Frank Huisking had fceen killed over here. My brother John was killed shortly after Frank, in a flight over Austria—he too was stationed here in Italy. He was killed on June 26. 
••Jim HacDevitt gave me a newspaper clipping which he had received from home, telling about Father O'Donnsll's sister greeting the allied troops when Siena was taken. We both wanted to visit her but could never arrange for the time. Finally I got down to Siena in early September. Hrs. Graziani w-asn't at home, un­fortunately, and I wasn't able to wait for her return. I received a very nice letter from her soon after, so Jim and I are hoping to get down there. 
"My wife (and Harrison III) are living in New Rochelle with her sister Allys Vergara. G»rge VcivarA is a lieutenant in the Navy and at last i«port was stationed in California. Jim MacD^tt has two little boys, so you can see the war isn't stepping the future Notre Darners. 
"Other Notre Dame boys I've met are Jerry Qainn and Ray Goodmans and Ed Alontagne, *34, Jerry is in my division, so we see each other regularly. 
"ITie Amay game should be terrific—please run up a high score on them. [Ed's note: Sic!] 
"Boots McCarthy and Jim Nolan are both en­signs. Boots was headed for China the last I beard from him. Jade Walsh, *38, is a lieutenant on an LST over here in the Mediterranean theater. MacDevitt hears from Jcrfin Moran and Cy Stroher who are both in the Navy—as is my old 'Scholastic* delivery boy friend. Bill Moss." 
From Vince Horphy, Evanston, III.: 
**Jack Mack, '41, is now a lieutenant (Jg) in the Coast Guard and is stationed ac Mianr.i in the coast guard district office in the duPont Building. He has been in ^or :wo years J-nd has spent most of them in the Caribbean, around IVinidad and San Juan. 
"Winism J, Shea, ex. *43. who leCt scl.o.^1 liter his sophomore year to go in the Acm.\ was with Patton's third army and was wounded ii* action during the speedy drive across Ti ance. Nevr^ about him is scarce but his mo:her repnrts that his leg was broken and he is now con­valescing in London. 
"WUUui J. Shea. '15. father t>f the nhove and a vet of the last war, is in harness sgn*n; this time as a captain in the troop escort com­mand now stationed at Camp Reynolds, I*a. He sees to it that enough of our boys get to the right place and at the right time and he has personally escorted quite a number of ih&n right to the scene of action. 

"Paul DoBKher. '35, is with the American Steel Foundries and is living in Highland. Ind. He has three boys. Paul. Jr., 5'^. Michael. 4, and Francis, 1, 
"Al Smith. 'ST. travels throughout the Middle West installing wage incentive systems, etc. He is married and lives in Evanston, 111. 
"Joe Znerdicr, '39, has arrived on American soil after 18 months in the southwest Pacific serving with distinction as a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps. Joe's family moved to £\-ans­ton fairly recently and. while I haven't met Joe. I am on good terms with his dad and feel like I know the boy. 
"Gene Dnggan, '38, is employed in Chicago at the present time and although he couldn't get to the first meeting of the North Shore group of the Chicago Club he is very interested and promises not to miss future meetings. 
"(aeorgc Demctrio, *36, a Naval lieutenant for more than a year, was stationed at Glenview when I last heard. At our WMC office in Chicago I think of George ruefully when his successor at the Palmer House sends over elevator opera­tors and bellboys to get referral cards and thinks he'll get them back. 
"Joe Oelerich, '11, the tomato juice man, lives up the street from me and can often be seen keeping his trim figure by working in his yard —and it looks good, too. 
"Redman Duggan, '38, a native of Colorado but an Evanstonian by adoption, came into Chi* cago last week (Oct. 5) and got fitted for glasses. He didn't get a chance to come out to the house but did call and reported everything fine in­cluding his son. David William. 
[Ed's. Note: Redman, with his wife and son, was visiting with his wife's family in South Bend, saw his first N. D. football game in several years and spent much tim2 on the campus. He heads the Social Security office in Ogden, Utah.] 
- "As for myself. I am still at the United States Employment Service office in Chicago and still living in Evanston. During the latter half of '43, I was loaned (interest free) to the War Food Administration for their Farm Labor re­cruitment activity, but at the present time my services are exclusively at the disposal of U.S.­E-S. Incidentally. John Dorgan and Ed OTMIC. two key figures in the Chicago Club, consulted with us recently on the alumni job placement activity, and the groundwork was laid for healthy cooperation between us in the all-import­ant matter of vet-re-employment and student placement." 
From Pie Traynor, Baltimore. Md.: 
"Since leaving N. D. in '37, much has trans­pired—I got my M.D- from the University of Maryland Medical School and since that time have been here at Maryland General. After having completed my surgical residency, I am now 'chief resident'. 
"Last February I got myself married to a gal from the deep south—Miss May Agnes Skinner of Charleston, S. C 
"Paul Doran. '37, walked into the hospital the other night. It seems that he and several other' fellows h»ve taken over as 'volunteer orderties* —quite a thankless and dirty job, too. Paul is with Butler Brothers here in Baltimore after havine been transferred from N. Y. C. He has a charming wife and two babies, a boy and a girl. Also bumped into J»e KcNaUy. '37, last 
winter in the Pennsylvania Station. At that time he was wearing an ensign's stripe. 
"So far, I've been deferred from the Army because of the hospital. However, in about nine months, the medical corps will probaWy be tap­ping me on the shoulder.** 
Al Schwartz, U. S. Army Air Corps: 
"Shortly after the 'Alumnus' reached the fellows, I had a call from Jim Barke, '36. Jim lives in Hanford. Calif., a small town not far from "Rilane—my home for the present. Jim is working at the Lemoore Army Air Base as the civilian head of Army supply. He has a very charming wife, the former Roberta "Rithill of St. Mary's lineage- Two fine children, Mary and Robert, keep Jim busy. 
"While visiting Jim one evening, we got on the phone and called Bob 'Spots' Manning, also class of '36. Bob is in the Navy, stationed at San Francisco. His wife is with him. Bob told me that his brother, John, who had been on a fellowship at Mayo's, was going into the Army that week. mid-September. 
"About three weeks ago. Andy Hellmath, '36, showed up as a lieutenant at Camp Pinedale, Fresno, Calif. Through Jim, I also learned that Bob Waldeck is in Los Angeles. He's married and has a child or two, I believe- He's with one of the aircraft factories there. 
"Jim and I also talked to Lloyd StoHch in Salinas, Calif. Lloyd is another '37 boy who is doing well. He's deputy grand knight, father of one, Salinas' leading young businessman. Yep. he's doing all right. 
"A letter from Lafayette. Ind., brought word that the confirmed old bachelor of the Bluegrass, Parker 'Pappy' Sullivan, succumbed to the charms of a Hoosier girl. Parker was married on Sept. 
21. P««l Sheedy is now in Milwaukee with the FBI. From Italy, through a mutual friend, came word of a meeting with Lt. Ed Reardon of ^nsa s City. All will be glad to hear that the old vendor of wit and humor. Vince Probst. checked in with a card. Vince is an ensign in training at Plattsburg, N. Y, 
"Burke said he ran into Chris Matthews, '36. in Sacramento. Chris is a captun stationed at one of the fields around that city. Probst re­ported that Ken Moriarity, ex. '37. was the only 
N. D. boy he could still locate in N. Y." 
From Ens. Jim Bacon: 
"I graduated from Harvard communications school and am now here in New York awaiting my permanent orders. I ran into Bill Halicnan, Bab Malamey, *36. Justin McCann. Jack Meister, Veraer lfo«ney» Tom Boylan and Ed Bodo up there. All but Mulrenan were in communica­tions; he was in supply school." 
A V-mail from Sgt. Ben Scberer. dated Oct. 27, somewhere in France: 
"In the past seven months I have been in Africa, Italy and France. While I was in Italy I visited the Vatican which is even more beauti­ful than I had dreamed. In Africa I met John CavMUMjIi and in Naples. I bumped into Joe SblMJBg. Jc^n is in the transportation unit of the Army qnd Joe is a naval officer of some kind. Outside of these two from my class have met no other Notre Dame men." 
 A. WUUaBs, 4323 BbrbMuU 
Bd., Naltimore, Md, 

1938 HanM 
From Hal WUliama: 

*nie lead this issue soes to Lt. BoWrt Holts, o£ the Quartermaster Depot, Jeffersonville, Ind. He writes, **I arrived here two wedcs ago and was given the job of setting up a training program in contract terminations for the military as well as the civilian personnel of the depot-Prior to coming here, I was instructor in the Quartermaster School at Camp Lee, where I taught army supply procedures to embryonic second lieutenants. . • There are three N.D. men here: Capt Carton, '29, who is head of the negotiation section of the contract termination branch; Lt. Joe Cnnniff, *37, who is in charge of the vendors' shipping document section and Prt. Washko, *35, who is one of my students. Capt, Fred Tlieia, '36» was here, but is now in England or France. 
"On August 20, 1944. our first child—^Mary Alice Holtz—^was born in Hishawaka. and that's about all the news .. . By the way, who has ever heard from Jimmy Murphy, the Tuscon kid?" 
Thanks, Boh, for the swell letter. Let's hear from you again. 
Now a V-mail letter from Sgt. Chuck O'Reilly writing Sept 1, he says, "Only today I received the June issue of the 'Alumnus.' I noted that the boys of '38 have slipped and so at your re­quest I'll take up a position on your honor roll. 
"I can't say much about N-D. men because, unfortunately, I've run into only a few. Just prior to the invasion, I met Lt. (jg) Fred Cad­dec at church one Sunday in a little coastal town of England. At that time we were both standing by for orders. My unit was one of the first to land in France, and things were pretty hot for a time; now the countryside is peaceful. While working a ship one day I met Lt. (jg) Robert Htttton, ex. M3. He was reading the 'Alumnus,* and that prompted my accosting him. 
"Coming over from the U. S. I met Mike Koken and Marty Bratz, ex. '44. Both are here in France somewhere. My wife, Jayne, is with my dad in St. Mary's, O. We hope to go back to Chicago after the war. I was interested in Father Tom Brennan's convocation address to the June graduating class. Five years ago Sept. 30, Father Tom married us in the Log Chapel." 
That was a swell letter. Chuck. Write again, and the very best of luck. 
Lt, Eddie Mattingly, who is an army transport officer in the Pacific, writes that he is commissary officer and that he has been on the ship since January. He sends regards to all, particularly the old engineers. 
Capt. Jade Cleary, writes from France: **Mr doty has been deeply impressed on me by tfie recent arrival of the Angast issue of the 'Alnm­nas. I noticed that my darlinr wife has had to do the honors of letting my oM classmates know that r m stUI aboat. I didn't arrive in this oMntry for the opening cartain, bat I got here for the trst scene of the first act. 
"Notre Dame can chalk up another victory that was not on the schednle and thereby hangs a tale. Early in the campaign oar battalion was having diflnenlty captaring an enemy strong point. By Means of m sovnd track the battaUon coaiauuider was attempting to talk the Germans into sarmidering, bat they refiued. Orders were fiaslly civea to attadc and off we paahed againitt piB hoxcs. v*ad Mods, etc. It was toagli golnr, hat net for long. Ike soand trade gave fwtli with the N.1K 'Victory Mirch' and that was the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
end of the Jerries as the hoys jast lalM light over them. It was spirit, Motre DaMe «*irit»' that won that victory.** 
And a few days after Jack^s letter arrived there came a note from his lovely wife Mary, giving us his address. Thanks to both of you, and we missed you at the usual stand after the Amy ­
N.D. game. 
There were two things that spoiled the tra­ditional informal reunion after the Army game: the score and the fact that the Penn Bar is closed for alterations. Be that as it may, the grey-haired men of '38. and their lovely wives assembled in the temporary bar in the Penn basement to talk over the good old days. 
I saw the following fellows: Harry Norris and Carleton MacDongahl, Lt. <ig) Gcerge Kirwia and wife. Bill Costello and wife, Paal Nowak, an officer in the Navy who is playing 'professional basketball this season for Wilmington, Vic Her­cado, Cas Vance (Ivan Ivancevic) and wife, (incidentally, Ivan's address now is 42-76th street, Brooklyn; they now have two children). Marine flyer Dan Gibbs and wife,. Banny HcCor-* mick who is a lieutenant in the Navy,. Bill Gallin and wife, Frank Prniha, who is an ensign in the Navy now taldng a course at Harvard with my old roommate Bad Sherwood, and Mr. and Mrs. Rnss Hunt, from Woonsocket, R. I. 
Russ, who is connected with the Chamber of Ck)mmerce of Woonsocket, told me that he is a very proud father of a son. Rickey. Russ also passed the word along that Dan Keefe is now in Africa. One of the pleasant surprises of the evening was seeing Marion Vaslett. Gene's wife, and Roz Kelley, wife of John; both husbands are in France and the girls came down to any hello to the boys. And the fellows wo e delighted to see them. Others seen at the reunion were Bill Faymonville, Greg Rice, and Joe Geyer. I probably missed a number of the boys, but I had to leave early and in a hurry to catch a ten o'clock train that evening back to Baltimore. 
That's about all the news except two items: John Conley, '34, who formerly was financial editor of the "Baltimore Evening Sun," is now Navy press officer in the Navy Department's Bureau of Public Relations with the rank of lieutenant commander; second, a picture of 3mA Zerbst which was entered in the Frederick County Fair without the knowledge of Jack or hia wife won the blue ribbon in the annual picture con­test. 
More next issue if you fellows keep coming through with the letters. 
Ray Meyer, DePaul University coach, who has devoted over half of his 30 years to basketball, is The Chicago "Herald-American's" "coach of the year," and assisted in coaching the College All-Stars in their game against the Ft- Wayne Zollners, pro champs, in Chicago on Dee. 1. Boh Shea, Chicago, is a sergeant at Gamp Welt­ers. Tex. A change of address has come through for W O Joe Henebry, APO through San F^ran­cisco. Joe is a brother of the famous CoL Jocfc Henebry, '40. 
Jerry Kane, Los Angeles, was in for the North­western game with Swede Baaer. Jerry is with Douglas in export sales and was atten^ng the international air conference in Chicago. Sfft. Charles Love, Indianapolis, is one of the brothers of Lt. (jg) Gordon Love, ex. *41, whose death was reiHirted in the October issue of the 'Alum­nus." Charlie was here for the Northwestern game. 
From New Gmnea, a long overdue letter from Lt. (jg) RIggie DiBrienza. "My recent travels have brought me to New Guinea—and 
' thus far I'va coaM across Vlawal Cimiw, '«& 
also a medkal oOeer, with duty ahotf<i a»;unr. 
Sonetiiae aso^ I also net Ji^ VDmmJL yUm 
is doing.a swell job with an Am r oatft. ;.I . 
have net many fin* chaplainfc all fieiaads «( ­
Notre Dane, and oar fireqneat set^octtbets hava 
been most pleasant. 
"BcHeve aae nncerely. it Is ao eomfbrtias t6 know of the nnny pcajera offered daUr 'on tha campos for ns hoys out here." 
Marine Malar Jslm ScaCt. Sooth Bei 4 om ­aeaa nnee Angnst 1942. was wounded on <^am in August. 1944. John reerived a dtatioa firaas -Adndrml Halsey dorinir the battle of Bongaltt­viUe. A diqwtcfa from Guam said of hiss: 
"Within three days the redheaded ottear, of an infantry re^menfa plannfiig joined in sea and air attacks on the Japa. Both ended in near-disaster. 
"On Aug. 31, the major. . . . acted as ob­server on a gunboat which shelled Jap pontioBS in caves between Fadian and lates Points. Oa the way in. the boat was damaged a mile from shore, and Major Scott spent a half hour in the water with other sorviyors. He was reseoed by a minesweeper's whale boat. 
"On Sept 2 the major flew over the sasM area in a scoot plane, observing dBFeets of tiia. gunboat's fire. His lulot ffew so low the aMjor was able to drop hand grenades on a p ^ of Japs along the headi. As the plane palled away something went wrong with a wini& and wifliia a few minutes Major Scott again was swieudnff in the Pacific, 50 yards off shore. 
"For 45 minutes Major Seott and his pikA clung to an outenvping of eoral as the ant; beat at them. They were rescued by a gahboatTs small craft Once daring thdr time in tha water they heard rifle fire ashore and thooilit Japs nd^ t be firing at them. 
" *I should stick to foot soldiering." said the major.* '* 
Bin CHffatd, Gary, Ind., a captain in the Azay, was reported in Billings Hovital, ladianapolfab on Sept 21, as a result of injuries sustained la France. Both his legs were broken. 
Paal Leahy, TUBn, C, and his wife wm la for the Northwestern week-end, akag with Chack Terry and his wife and two oldest sons from nearby Findlay, O. Paal travds cms m considerable portlmi of the Middle West 'or tha National Drag Co-. Philaddphia, wbUe Chock continues as asdstant naanager of the Boss Hfkr (>>. plant in flodlay. And he h said here that the Leahy man is the father of foor, in which regard he and Chock SwceiMy of Scmth Bend. seem to be tied for the leadership of the t^Mos of '38. Chuck Terry, the father of three boys, is right up there in the running. 
1939 
Vteent W. DeCMnej. Mtl Cnnh . City. 
From Viacc Dc Caane,: 
Another month or so gone and the old faail&r card forces the vife to go throng Uie fll« nek* ins news for the "Ahtmnns." Thb time Oe caphoud, althoa^ not mite ben. is still aoth­iag for the Surplus Propert, AdmlnKrstor to worry over. As a matter of fact, ahoet half the informatim was obtained throngh viritora and viats. 
First, a little eoneetion notice bo a I M Ladir, 'W, who was my tnotber BilTs IIMIM—!• in the good old dars- It's U. HU ladtt witk­out the parenthetieal dfotioa and he's at tt* trSN Ttraining SdMwL Dearborn. Wdi. 
Announcements: marriage, Walt Cotton way back in Alamogordo. N. Mex., early in the year. Mention of Alamogordo brings up a very pleasant visit with Bob Schroeder who flew in from that place early in November, seeking relief from hot tamales and the native chili. Bob has been back in the States for a few months, after com­pleting his missions over Europe- Said that there must have been a bunch of Notre Dame boys over there, but they kept hidden. 
Don't know if we've mentioned Joe McDermott's marriage in July or not. Anyway now we have-
Letter from Jean Wilson about Capt. Andy Wilson, intelligence officer with the Air Force in France. Another rote from Mrs, Joe Hicgel, announcing a boy to keep his sister company-Joe is at pre-radar school at Princeton. 
Letter from Mr. L. L. Blessing of Curtis, Kebr., father of Mike. Says Mike is in the Medical Administration Corps, probably in Germany at the time of writing. Mike, according to his father says that Bob Ortale, Vobsrling, Gene White* Harry Detzer and Bob Breen should write, and adds Ibis: "Tell Sterling Mortimer to look him up when he gets to France as he has a nice dry German bomb shelter where they can celebrate" 

Nice letter from 1st Lt. George Bas linn's mother. It's now Dr. Bastian, at present in England. George finished at Georgetown Med-in 1943. Bereading a letter from Pete Sand-rock from out at San Pedro, Calif.. I got a very timely suggestion. Quote We should get the fellows to do all they can now, [referring to the Alumni Fund) ; after the war most of us will be married and CAN'T afford to do anything un­<Iuote. 
And that's about all the information coming in via Mr. Walker's Post Office Department. 

We were fortunate enough to be in Chicago at the time of the Tulane game at South Bend and so made the trip down to see what the old place looked like—and can truthfully report that it ain't like it used to b& Saturday a.m., a leather lunged CPO was bawling out instructions on how to lock the rooms, etc, to a line of NROTC'3 in front of their Walsh Hall barracks. Almost got caught in the flight of the V-12's out of the Dining Hall. 
Saw some civilian students over in the old freshman group. After Friday's pep meeting, saw Father John Cavanaogh, Father Brennan* and Father Forreatal—and all of them wanting the good old days back, but not too enthusiastic about the immediate future Then getting on the bus (no more street cars' in South Bend) bumped, literally, into Blarty McGinnis, now Captain UcGinnis. and pilot of a B-17. Marty had been In the cavalry at Fort Riley for some time before transferring over to the air force. We didn't see him all the time he was in Kansas, and had to come all that way, and he had to come up from Florida, before we met. 
Dick Anton was still in South Bend, slaving away to get workers for Oliver. Saw his little boy for the first time AH doing well, but not t<*> enthusnastic about South Bend, which is a booming metropolis compared to 1939. At church Sunday ran into Jim Dunn, still at Bockford. And that was about all the week-end. 
Hope next month more information. Some of the boys in New York ought to have recovered from the Army game enough to describe what went on—especially Saturday night. The sooner the afternoon is forgotten the better. 
Major Joe Thornton, St- Paul, was decorated for distingoisfaed service. Joe, who is stationed in Alaska, is the proud father of a three-year old son. Stationed at Patterson Field, Furfield, O., Bob Pierrcecfai has been promoted to first lieutenant. Bob has been in the Army since March, 1941. 

Baby James McMahon pins wings on his father 2ndl Lt. John £. McMahon, '39, Indianapolis, while mother looks on. 
John won his wings and bars by com­pleting the AAF Training Command's bombardier training course at Carlsbad, 
N. M., Army Air Field. His wife U the former Rose Catherine Boland, India­napolis. 
1st Lt. Harold A. Gottsacker, '39, Sheboygan, Wis., was wounded in the battle around Metz and was awarded the Purple Heart, according to infor­mation from his brother, Richard J. Gottsacker, a student in the University. Hal was commissioned at Ft. Benning, Ga., in June, 1943, and went overseas last August. With his brother. Bill, '36, he is the owner of an insurance agency in Sheboygan. 
1ST LT. HAROLD A. GOTISACKEB, '39 
An interesting letter from Capt. Lyie Russell,. Italy: 
"Today being Sunday, I had the morning off" and took a little trip with a Capt. Jim Levi, '37. Well, we started out early this morning in a ieep for a little mountain village that I had! heard a lot about. It's nothing but a quiet little ancient village built on the side of a moun­tain, but has become a big attraction because of Padre Pio, a priest who has a stigma of both hands. We got there in time for Mass and. were allowed to sit right up beside the altar. Padre Pio said Mass, a low one without anr sermon, and it took him two hours to finish^ It was very impressive, because of his facial expressions, he seemed to live through the Sacri* fice of C&Ivary and to go through all the agony. After the Mass, the crowd aH came to the-Sacristy to kiss his hands. I went along, not only to kiss the hands, but also, Avith my medical curiosity, to have a chance to examine theni. There was a big open sore on the palm and top of each hand- The sores iirst appeared 25 years ago, they have never healed and bleed every Friday." 
S/Srt. Beitiie Feeney, Washington, D. C, who-was here the week-end of the Wisconsin game, being confidential messenger in the Combined Chiefs of Staff office, has one of the Army's best jobs. The planning of world-shaking events and advance news from the war fronts all pass through his hands. His selection for the job is a tribute to Bemie and to Notre Dame. Not the least of his assets is a car, with chaufteur, at his disposal. 
A card from Ens. Tom Powers, c/o FPO, San Francisco reads: "Went through Fort Schuyler^ 
N. Y., training school last summer with Paul Donovan. A line from any of the '39 gang-would be appreciated." 
A dispatch from Guam states that Marine 2nd Lt* Bill Hofer, former assistant football coach at the University of Iowa, has been com­mended for outstanding performance of duty. In the Guam landing. Bill's men were met by strong opposition, but he assisted his wounded to cover and then moved his platoon forward to wipe out enemy resistance and reach his objective. 
Lt. Walt Johnson, USMC. is stationed at Quantico, Va. Ed Simonxch played with the Chicago Bears the early part of the season but 

. had to discontinue due to a leg injury. He has now taken a job as coach at Catholic Central High School, Butte, Mont 
1940 
Lt. Robert G. Sanford. 3934 N. Har}--Und Ave.. Miiwaakce, Wis, 
TOM Bnnnltn is a private stationed at Scott Field, III. A release from the 16th AAF in Italy reveals that 2nd Lt. Bemie Eilen, Rochester, 
N. Y., has been awarded the Air Medal for meritorious achievement while participating in aerial flight aeainst the enemy. "Don't let any­one kid you," Bemie, the first pilot on a B-24 Liberator, said, "they talk about milkruns all the time. The flak is still plenty tough, and every man in the formation has to sweat it out over the target.** 
Haj. Eaaiet Theisen, Detroit, piloted one of the best-known planes in the CBI theater when he flew Gen. Joseph Stillwell on his many mis­sions in that area. John Gavan was awarded the DFG the day before he was promoted to lieuten­ant senior grade, at Green Cove Springs. Fla. Tbe dtation that accompanied the award read, "For heroism and extraordinary achievement during joint 'operations of United States and British Naval Forces against enemy Japanese bases in the Netherlands East Indies." Accounts 

of John's accomplishments have appeared in earlier issues of ^ e 'Alumnus.' 
From Lt. <jc) Bob Sweenr* FPO, San Francis­co, to Bob Sanford: 
"I have been sailing around out here in the Pacific for two years now, and during that time have run into quite a few of the old gang from our class at N. D. 
"I used to see Al Borffman quite frequently— he was chief engineer on a 'can' when last seen. Had Lt< Bob HcLaasUin, '41, over for chow one night. He was doing carrier duty at the time. I hear frequently from Maj. Harry Phillips. We always seem to be in the same district, but have yet to see him around these parts. Have seen Lt. (jg) Bob Mowland* two or three times at different places out here. 
"I ran into Ens. Joe Miller at a club out here not long ago. Lt. <jg) Jack Willmann had me over one evening for dinner aboard 'his' trans­port. Spent a good afternoon with Lt. (jg) Jerry O'Dowd, '41, at an officers* club near here." 
Lt. John Kelleher, army medical corps, visited 

N. D., his iirst visit since he was graduated, when he stopped to see his brother. Bob. before reporting to a southern camp for his new duties. 
A thoughtful letter from Bemie Eilers' mother supplied us with the following information about Rochester, N. Y., N. D. boys in ser\-ice: Lt. Tony DeSimon* '41. in China; Lt. Louts Bemish, '39, in India; Ffc. Jim Tormey, '39. in India; Lt. <jff) Vince Dollard. '39. Holy Cross College. Worcester, Mass.; Lt. (jg) Henry Johantgen. Sampson, N. Y. 
Ist Lt. Hyles Walsh, visiting recently his w-ife's family in South Bend, had many inter­esting stories to relate of missions over Europe as bombardier and navigator. He flew six times over Berlin, returning once with 96 flak holes, one in his parachute. Myles also had done ferrying work. 
1941 Lt. John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Dar­lington Rd., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
lat. Lt. Lather Buber received his M.D. from Tufts College at a degree convocation of the Tufts Medical and Dental Schools on Sept. 24. George Mcltzer, formerly a lieutenant in the Air Corps and the recipient of the Air Medal with three clusters, the DFC and the Purple Heart, has returned to N. D. as a philosophy graduate student. 
**It was all prayer and practically no wing", said George when he gave an account of some of his experiences in bombings over Germany. 
**Our most harrowing experience," he ex­plained, "was ironically enough on our thirteenth mission." 
On this occasion the t\vo right wing motors quit en route to Germany from England. All ammunition and equipment except an emergency supply was dumped and the pilot turned back to the home Held flying low. about 50 feet above the North Sea. 
"The fortress was caught between crossflre from two islands and an enemy ship. By zig­zagging through the ack-ack, we finally made it back to the field with two dead motors, and a third which had been failing all the way." 
He added, "That time I said two rosaries in­stead of my usual one after completing a mis­sion. -I was never so glad to feel the ground beneath my feet!" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
On completion of his 23rd mission, George jumped from the plane to extinguish a fixe in one of the motors. WhHe doing this be stepped too close to one of the propellers and suffered au ^ severe head injuries that he was not expected to recover. 
Reported over a year ago as missing in action, Lt. (jg) Charles Bransfield, may now be a Japa­nese prisoner of war, according to word received by his parents. According to the provost marshal general's oflice. a message from Charlie viaa heard on a Japanese broadcast in which he assured those at home that he was in good health and safe-A fighter pilot ojierating from a carrier, he w^as reported missing Sept. 18, 1943, in action over the Gilbert Islands. 
Promoted: Joe Somers to major in Luxem­bourg ; Pat Putnam to captain at. Selman Field. La.: Tom Bciliy (recently back in the U. S. A.) to lieutenant. 
It's Lt. Bill Gar^-e^ at Base Headquarters, c/o Postmaster, Miami, and Lt. Joe GoUtinan at Camp Rucker, Ala. 
Bill Clark, Tuckahoe. N. Y., was graduated from the College of Medicine, New York Uni­versity on Sept. 2S. At the commencement exercises. Bill was awarded the Herman Wortis memorial prize for the best work in the depart­ments of neurology, psychiatry and medicine. He has been commissioned first lieutenant in the medical corps but will be on inactive duty for the next nine months during which time he will interne at Grasslands Hospital. Valhalla. N. Y. 
Lt. (jg) Bob Osterman has returned to this country after seeing a lot of excitement in PT boats in the Pacific. 
With the loth air force in Italy, 2nd Lt. John Campbell, Humboldt. la., has been awarded the Air Medal. He is bombardier of a 13-24 Liberator bomber and has flown against indus­trial and communications targets in the Balkans. northern Italy and southern Germany. 
Phil McCanna, serving his internship at St. Mary's Hospital in Milwaukee, is a lieutenant in the Army Reserve. 
A letter from Mr. Patterson says that he met Lt. (jg) Bill Hawes at the N. D. smoker in Pittsburgh the night before the game with Pitt. Bill is based at Little Creek, Va. Bill in turn reported that he had met Ens. Jim Hannigan and Lt. John O'Brien, both now in the Pacific, 1st Lt. Ed McHugh is overseas with Gen. Pat-ton's Army, Mr. Patterson said. 
From Leo Robidoox, Los Angeles: 

"Have recently heard from En^ T. Cassidy studying at St. Simons Island, Ga. He reports that conditions there are not too favorable. Walt Besel, first lieutenant in the Marine Corps, class of *42, writes from some beautiful island in the south Pacific, that he is spending mudi of the time thinking of how nice it would b« to get back to good old New Yorlg and without palm trees. 
"I am still holding down the job of inside engineer at the local Cutler Hammer office and waxing in the very unusual California weather. Must admit, however, that at the present time my main interest centers around our little youngster." 
After serving 15 months on a destroyer in the pacific. Lt. (jg) Bill Cotter, Jr., has been stationed at a shipyard near Boston as out­
. fitting supply officer for the past year. As you'll notice elsewhere in this issue. Bill is a new father. Ife was much broken up over the deaths of his close friend John Hcnneaiy and 
his cousin Dan KeUy. '39. 
31 

Ge«ice Melter reports that: Set. NM I BfacCuiT. «t K. D. Nov. 4 and S. is at Ft. JjeoTuad Wood, Mo.: L t 6c«ic« WIm, paia^ trooper, ivoimded on I>-Day, has lecovercd; Capt. Bacer Faleyf is (was) on Guam; Jack WUte is doinff some acting 'xound about N.Y.C 
 waiiaa E. Soalm. Ul 1942 CpL 
FlnuBt St, Pntac*. Vb. 
From ScMp Scaalaa: 

DadunK in jnst too Ute for the October 'Alumnus' \ras this newsy conuminiqae tma Brooklyn, and Ckarlie Confer: 
"I'm worldng for the International Telephone and Telesiaph Corp.. in New Tork Gtr. and have heen here approximately 16 months now. Jim Leisiac> is stationed at the Kni^ts ^t Columbus in Brooklyn. 
"B*k HcFarbnd jives just a few blocks away and is stationed at the Brooklyn Navy Taid. We ran into each other about a month ago. Saw Taai Walker a couple of weeks ago. Be's the proud lather of a baby girl and tells me that Bin Keycs has an infant son, bom just a day after Tom's. Walt Ivaneevie is also located here in the city and is worldng for an investment company. The latter just passed the 
N. Y. State bar exams and may have been admitted by now. Hy old roommate, Viace Skkly. writes regularly from Camp Brecken­ridge^ Ky. He's in the Quartermaster Corps and received his gold bars of second lieutenant last Kovemter at Camp Lee, Ya. 
"Fraak Hnrphy. class cf '40, finishes his internship at St. Vincent's Hospital and before going on active duty in the Navy planned to get married on Oct. 4. ' Frad Pa»lmann writes from New Roehelle. N. Y., about a N. D. get-together on October 14. ODie Banter, Jafaay Xajacfc, and a couple of other Notre Darners are at Columbia University now and if all those in the vicinity can make it, \te should have quite 
a gathering. 
"Jim Maker works for Haskin and Sells in the same building with me at 67 Broad Street. Jelin BlaWnc writes that he is now working in his home town, Toledo, and planned to be in New York for the Army game. Johnny was kcat man from Bob Breska in the middle of Jtme." 
Now let's skip over to Lt. Jim Bmtx, who makes his debnt in writing for the class com­mentary: 
"It seems like only yesterday I sat in the Field House bleadiers witnessing Sceap Scaalaa in his iKudng debut, trying to revolutionize the sport of boxing with his bobbing and weaving tactics. I received the October 'Ahmmus' last week [his letter from the Pacific was dated Nov. 12], and it's a morale booster. Yes, a morale booster when you first glance at the large envelope, only to lose this effect when you con­tinue on to read the names of those Notre Dame Bfen killed in action. 
"I was located in the Charleston Shipyard making preparations for our ship's commission­ing when informed of Heiky Bemln ' death. We can only remember our buddies in prayer and memory but, boy, yon sure fed it. Fra executive officer aboard an L.SJL •wkb a crew of 70 men. inelndinK six officers. The men ate young and really the morale is high. 
"Yes, at times I get the men in a hnddle for a pep talk and all we stress is caution and cool­ness when the pressure is on. I run the ship like a football team and am getting results with one exception. Someone stole my shoes^ and that is working against my principle. I would never think of stealing Lcahy*a shoes. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 
"As for exercise, I get little—I found a piece of white chalk a few days back and now I play 'hop-scotch* on the ship's superstructure deck. If you locate a little ball with some jacks, please forward them to me. I need exercise. I never did get by my big 'tootsies.* 
"We have been in the Pacific since September and have been in there throwing a few blocks, with all hands still in fine shape. Hope to run into Crimmins, l^illls. Chleback. Chemey and the boys out here. Well, Scoop, in a few minutes I'll go to the ship's bridge to stand a four-hour watch while we pitch and roll through the Pacific's waters- Luck to you. Scoop, and God bless all the fellows." 
Jim would like to communicate with any of the fellows. His address can't be printed, along: witb others serving overseas, because of censor­ship regulations, but it can be obtained by writ­ing the Alumni Office, Notre Dame, Ind., or by writing me directly at my home address. Portage. Wis. 
Here comes a report from Chicago and Bill Hidiey: 
"X have teen Jn the Coast Guard hospital in Chicago for a month now.—nothing at all seri­ous,—^but the Coast Guard finally found out just how bad my eyes are and they have me here all wrapped up in red-tape- Hope to pet out of here this week though. 
"Took a week-end from the hospital (really tough duty) and went to the Notre Pame-Wis­consin game. ' Went down with Bill Sturbitts. Not much news froTn our class. Bill Morrow was at the game^ but did not engage in any post-game actiwties at Ye Olde Town culb with us. as did John Bfalone of the gla^-blowing Malones. He now works for Libby-0 wens-Ford in Toledo. Morrow was at the game "with Orrie Quinn of St. Mary's and she took him right back to Chicago. 
"Storliitts -was transferred from Madison to a P.O.E. as of yesterday, so the boys overseas can be on the lookout Don Hogan is now with his hospital ship, carrying casualties off Lej-te. Bank Reran is still at Madison, Wis-, recovering from an emergency operation for a burst appendix." 
Just too late for the October 'Alumnus' came a swell letter and picture from Pensacola* Fla.. and Lt. (it) Steve Gmliker who said: 
". . . 'At a gathering of several of the Flying Irish it was decided to rendezvous at one of the out-lying fields for a picture. Three meetings were necessary before a majority could be in­cluded. 
"I am enclosing the picture. Absent are Lt. (jg> Ed Hackett, who made the first meeting but has since departed from the Naval Air Technical Training Command, Photographic Squadron. Pensacola, for night fighters (all prayers will be appreciated). Ens. Jack Ryan, '41. of Ellyson Field. Lt. T. P. Camll of Sarin Field and Lt. (JK) Qoentin Marshall* who re­ported aboard several days after the picture -w&s taken. 
"Bill Grady and Ed Mangelsdorf have been detached for operational training at Jackson­ville. Lt. (jg) Walt Kelly and Lt. (jr) BUI McGrmth are stationed at Baiin Field and are respectively approaching parenthood and matri­mony within a month. T.P. and Trudy have a new daughter. Godfathered by 'Mongoose' McGrath. 
"Visited 1st Lt. Harry (Bub) Beal. USMCR. and his family early in June. Next day . he received his wings and proceeded to Cherry Point to join a B-25 sQuadron." 
Joe Ragolia's sister, Josephine, of Trenton, 
N. J., sent his note on October 13: 
"I just want to report for the 'Alumnus' that Joe Ragolia has been promoted to captain. He is now somewhere in France- Recently he wrote that he visited Mont St. Michele and also the Kheims Cathedral—so judge for yourself where he is." 
Jim Bmtz has already mentioned Hetky Bere­olos, but here's a tribute to him which appeared, in the "Trenton, Times-Advertiser" of October 22, penned by one Thomas F. McCann, who happens to be a buddy of Joe Ragolia: 
"It is October again. Scouts and scouters. October with zest in the air while the eye looks upon an outdoor fairyland as Mother Nature gives forth her annual symphony of (»Iors. October is also the month which, quite sppro­priately, the Church dedicates to the rosary of Mary, and so throughout our land and world groups will be found in church or at home, together reciting—in war time as in peace—the powerful prayer of the rosary. 
"Today I am thinking of just two of these groups. First the students at St. Joseph's C(rflege, Princeton, "who daily after their noon meal march in procession to their little grotto o£ our Lady of Lourdes overlooking Carnegie Lake, and here recite the rosary. 
"The second group is the student body of Notre Dame, who each evening assemble at the grotto for devotions. And I am thinking of one of her sons—a member of her football squad. His name is Hercules Bereolos—Herky for short, a Greek lad with the perfect physique of his early countrymen. As soon as graduation day had passed, Herky like so many of his class­mates, laid aside cap and gown and donned the uniform of a naval flying cadet. Later, while flying on a combat mission, his plane crashed into the ocean and all were reported drowned. So Herk won't return again for rosary time. 
- Some day the armed forces will return victorious from the wars but Herk and all those other lads of his college, of all other colleges and of no college at all. his religion and all religions, will remain over there. 
"He and all those other lads who have given their lives to make this a better world for us all; one in which all men will be free, free to worship God as they see fit; free to assemble; and free to speak and write as their convictions lead them—without fear of concentration camp or firing squad." 
Some \veeks ago, Jim Keams, '34, sports columnist for the Chicago "Sun," carried a note that a couple of former Chicago Cardinal foot­ballers have shown up in action in the South Pacific. One was Bob Haddock, naval oflicer of our class, the other was Avery Monfort, a Marine captain from New Mexico. 
Recently returned from combat police duty in Italy was Tj5 Dave Hyde. He was one of the American combat police in charge of all law enforcement in Naples after the Italian city's capture t>y the Allies last ^ring. His particular job was with the criminal investigation depart­ment from February to May, of this year, check­ing into the black market activities that ran rampant in Naples. He came back to the U. S. on an assignment to deliver Nazi prisoners of war, and around Oct. 1 had to report to Fort Custer, Mich., for further assignment-
Here's the latest report on Lt. Paul Deery, as forwarded us by his dad. John A., of Indianapolis: 
"The Inst letter we receiv^ from Paul he was at or near the small town of Domremy (birth­place and childhood home of Joan of Arc). AVe think it is a coincidence after traveling across North Africa, almost the length of Italy and in France from the extreme southern border to the German frontier he is permitted to pause at the place v.-hcre the patron Saint of his home parish in Indianapolis was bom." 
From Cpl. Dick Murphy, Camp Ritchie. Md.: 
"My luck has been fairly good in running acro^ 
men in my trips around the country. Only last 
week-end. I ran across Cliff Brosey. Also met 
one of my Alumni Hall roommates. Bob Donahoe. 
of Sioux Falls, only a few hours after I met 
Cliff—^both in Washington. Bob is in his last 
year as a Navy med student at Georgetown and 
GHff is at Aberdeen with the air forces. Met 
J«lui Kufatch, while at Parris Island, and Dun 
Hasmii in Miami Beach last summer—a Navy 
enmgn at the time. I met Don and WilUe PUtt 

Here is o group of Notre Dome znen« doss of '42« gathered ot Pensacolcu Flo. Left to light ~ Steve GroUker, Ed Mangelsdorf, Walt KeUy, BiU Grady, T. Hanler* and BiU McGroth. (See story in '42 news) 
one Sunday after Mass. certainly a fine place to meet any N. D. men. 
"Jim McCaW. '40. was my constant pal during our trips with the air cadets through Miami Beach. Mobile and San Antonio. Another break was meeting two other room-mates, Pete Monlder and Jim Leahy, while in Chicago last spring-Just remembered that last year, while on furlough, my hometown friend, Tony Early* last year's spotter for Bill Stem, had Lujack, Kelley, Fillcy, Limont and Coleman at our table in the Penn. They were a wonderful group of fellows. That night I met Bad Concannon and Bill Scanlon as well as Harry Wright. Bud was a lieutenant in the infantry and Harry the same in the Marines." 
Lt. <jc) John Gilbert, who was in north Africa for one year with the Amphibious Forces at which time he participated in the invasions of Sicily and Salerno, returned to America last March and volunteered for submarine service and entered the submarine school at New London, Conn. John and his wife lived in Connecticut all spring and summer before moving to Upper Darby, where he waited for the completion of his sub, on which he is assistant engineer. 
Promoted: Charles Hasson to first lieutenant at Buckley Field. Colo. Capt. Jim Ford, a squad­ron bombardier in the Caribbean and Mediter­ranean areas, arrived at the AAF Redistribution Station in Miami Beach. A navigator on an eighth air force B-17 Flying Fortress, 1st Lt. Bill Foster. Auburn, N. Y., has been officially credited with the destruction of a German Messerschmitt 109 during a fierce air battle near Magdeburg in Germany. 
**We were on the return route from Magde­burg after bombing the oil refinery there," said Bill. "About 50 German fighters attacked our formations and some of them came in on our group. I was manning a flexible gun in the nose. I picked up this one and started firing on him and at about 100 yards out he caught on fire and then he peeled off and went down in flames." 
Sgt. Paul Neville arrived in Paris with the first American troops as the city was liberated. 2nd Lt. Bob Courtney. Indianapolis, is with the Oklahoma City air service command. Tinker Field. Okla. 
Seen in New York the Army-Notre Dame game week-end: Lt. (jg) Paul LiUis, wounded while commanding a PT boat against the Japs; Lt. Bonny McCormick, '38. now stationed at a naval base in the east: Jim McGoldrick. *39, with the F.B.I.: Lt. (ig) Grer Rice. '39: Lt. Bill Faymon. 
villc. '40: L t Bernie Witacki. ex. '34; Seaman Tom Foley, ex. '45, training for submarine duty; George Rassas. '41. father of two sons, who, he says, have already been enrolled at N. D.; Capt. Luke TIeman. "37. of the Marines; Lt. (jg) Bernie CrimminK Bernie was at N. D. for the Northwestern game and spoke at the Friday iHght pep meeting. 
T/5 Tom Keccan is APO. out of N. Y. C. He is stationed near Bath in England. 
Ens. Gcofge Uhl reported in from the Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge. Mass., on Nov. 18 with this communique: 
"John Hanifin. *42, the electrical engineer from Binghamton, N. Y., came to Bowdoin college about a month before I left. So he's now there in pre'radar. Charlie Lattimer. '41, a chemical engineer, had been here at MIT in radar, and finished just as I came, but I did see him at the Dartmouth game and the next day. However, I didn't see any other boys that week-end. 
"After I left Bowdoin. I had about three days off, so I went to New York. . . . saw Jade White, '41. He is now out of the army and is in radio at the RCA building. He's also married. 
I called Fred Paalmann. but wasn't able to see him. He became engaged that same week­end. I'm working in radar now and I live on the MIT campus, going to classes in Boston. I'm in the Glee Club at MIT, so I get a chance to sing more songs once again. Shades of N. D." 
Reporting in this time by way of Washington where <she was visiting. Mrs. Lora LadihiMlc* the I*aw School's faithful chronicleer. has this to say: 
**Lt. Joe Barr, USMC, wrote from somewhere on or near Tinian or Guam on Oct- 28, to tell us he was still looking for Japs and between times was doing a little legal reading. He thought he might get home before too long. 
"A welcome letter came from Lt. (jg) J. M. Lane. The pre-fix indicates a promotion since our last letter. He described a Mass at Notre Dame in Paris, but prefers Notre Dame du Lac, he says. Lt. Alex Cholis attended Mass there recently too. S/Sgt. Jim Daner is flying missions against the Japs, and doing a fine job. He was especially glad to know the lawyers at Notre Dame were carrying on, and sent his congratu­lations that their dance has been such a success. Jim suys he had a letter in August from Bill Hogan, who is located at the Presidio of Mont­erey, Calif. Bill was then a Pfc. 
"Lt. Andy Chcrney is busy too in the Jap fight. He runs into more N. D. men in his sector than any of the boys who write. Sft. Gerald Kamm wrote such an interesting letter from England, where he is assigned to the Allied Supreme Command. He is still hoping to see some of the many N. D. boys who pass through his area. One of our finest, Cpl. Don Patridc, has arrived in France with his tank destroyer outfit. He reports a loss of weight, the acquisi­tion of a mustache, and a taste of French wine. He wants to hear from Ena. Bill PclUng. 
"One of the finest bits of news was a letter from Ens. Ted Frerlcks, reporting the birth of a son in Marion. 0.. and his own transfer to a shore station in New York. Lt. and Mrs. Boh Sinon have a very new daughter. Bob is with his Marine outfit out in the Pacific and, when his wife wrote, be did not yet know about the baby. 
"Hal Hunter wrote that he has been admitted to the Missouri Bar and will practice at New Madrid. Lt. Raj* Qainn expected to be home by now. He completed his required number of flying missions over Germany some weeks ago. Ray promises a visit to Notre Dame. Nldt Villarosa spent several days in South Band in October. He is stationed at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Tom HaUigan was down from Flint. Mich., to see the Wisconsin game. He will practice in Michigan. 
"Pete Nemeth has a new baby daughter, making two children in the family. Pete is doing a nice business in South Bend. Bill Spanilcr sent a note to say he was leaving camp for the combat zone. We have no address as yet. 
"Harry Murray spent a few hours with us recently. He is practicing in Chicago as attorney for the city schools. Joe Barr again pleads for some news of his 'law partner', Pete Alonzi. He threatens a '-subpoena duces tecum* and he says if Pete saw the place, he would get a letter out in a hurrj-. 
"Dean Emcritos Konop told us about T*M Cain's wedding. Congratulations. 
"Louie Anderson called to tell us that his brother Henry is now in the Army. Jiai IfcGaM­ride wrote from New York where he is now with the FBL EM . Tea Beftea was in reeently to see Dean MiefaB He told os about the aetiaa im which Pa«l KMhMU- lost his life. Faal cot the Silver Star posthomnialy ttx Ua pcrfocaHUwa i a the Italian invasion, donaff which' be <was killed on Feb. 15. Paul is the only Uwyer of this group to have given his life so fmr in WaxH War n." 
On Nov. 18, FVcht 0«ccr Jaacs J- (Sad) Rice* the phy-ed from Reedsburg, Wis., was married in a colorful ceremony at St. Joseph's Cathedral in LaCrosse. Wis., to Miss Both Marie Jankowski. The latter is a gradoate of St. Tteresa Cbllese in Winona, Minn. After hoaeymooains in northern Wisconsin, the newlyweds were to make their home in California near an Army base Rice expected to be sent to. Red recently wa^ graduated from the Army Air Base at Bos­well, N. M. Best man for the affair was ytmra truly, the Scooper, and one of the ushers for the event was Lt. Fred F^nlc» who is fiyinc B-24s in the Topeka, Kan. area-ffis brother TySc^ Alhcct* debater de luxe of oar era. is now in England with an armored outfit 
Thanksgiving Day. 1944. became an oeeasioa of special significance for another *42er. Kavte 
K. Badne, Jr.. son of the greatest football eoadi of all time, received a discharge from the Army on that day at the Fort Sheridan Separaticm Center. Rock's army career had spread over two years and he said he met CapL Beany Sheri­dan at Fort Riley. I^n., and encountered Larry Brazen, a fellow named Dempssy who left Notre Dame after completing his freshman year, and ran into Bob Saggau's brother while staticmed in Alaska a few months ago. .. . He was look­ing forward to a "vacation" of a couple of weeks before becoming a job aspirant. 
During October and part of November. I wms attending the Education and Information sdiool at Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Va., but my present assignment finds me at the Orientation Center in Fort aieridan. Ut Bade from Camp Ellis is CpL BiO Stickles, ex-Notre Dame frpsh basketball ace. who is attending the Bakers and Cooks school here. 
That's all for now, but don't forget!: 
IF ir S NEWS. WRITE SCOOP! 
 Uwaid C. BMMT. U » I»­
«uis ATC^ Detroit, Mkk.: lUknt 
L«Mmn . The CUeac* Tritaae, CU­
caco. 
1943 
Euin 
From Sti Vnttitmni 
llie mail cominfC from overseas is slow; we have little news to report-Bill Hen o writes from tlie Naval Aviation Station at Norman. Okla. 
Bill says: Jae SfeieMs, First Uentesant in th* Karines and Lt. (te) Jain Gavia, U.&NJL. were both instructors here awhile back; Pari Pattn> finished his primary ffight tiaininc here not so Ions ago; Jalm Fraaiptaa, elaaa of '45. was also here for his training. When I was down in Galveston. Texas, on a croos eoontiy flisht. I humped into Bart Bfiiar , '43. who was engineering offirer on ... . a destroyer in the South Paeifie. I have heen workinK here at assembly and repair; I a n with the srannd crew." 
Vince CaaaUsa wrote another one of tboa. masterfnl letters tellins os of his ill hiek.' Viaee had almost completed his traininc in Japaaew at Tale when he became ill. CimtiniMd illaea* finally resulted in m discharge, ^lea Vinee cot back home oa mama's cooking and it waaa't Ions before he was back on hi.' feet. A few weeks later he signed a contract to play vnh­

fessional football with the Boston Yankees in the National Pro league- Here he was doing fine, altcmatinff with Augie Lio. former All-American from Georgetown, but about a third of the way through the season he had to give this up. He is now br.ck in Newark where he is in the market for a position. Vince gives his best to all and says how about a few letters. 
OUie Hunter was transferred from Columbia's Midshipman school, where he was athletic officer, 
to  another  midshipman's  school  near  New  
Orleans.  
Ed  Doyle  writes:  

"Over here they are a Httle rugged, but not too tough for an N.D. man. None of the old gang here, however, I did run into my brother Larry, '39, and Jack Woelfle, who wrote 'The Week'. He is in the same outfit I am, so we ^et together quite often. BUI Costello and Bob Walsh are somewhere in the South Pacific but I don't know where. Ed Ncagle is on his way over here, so I may see him soon. Missed see­ing Ed Holland by one day. Saw the Pope while in Italy, but didn't talk to him. France is much nicer than Italy although it has meant more work for me. Infantry is no fun, 'Red,' believe you me. but from the looks of things we are 
•doing a gob to end this war in a hurry." 
Paul Fisher has this to say; 

"Last night I was lying in my bunk over here in Southern Italy, and, finding it hard to sleep, my thoughts passed idly from one thing to another, and then dwelled on the date—September, 18, 1944. , . . 
''Coming down Notre Dame Avenue the Dome stood out maJMtJcally at the end of the aisle of trees. I got out of the cab (paid the driver) and began a brisk walk toward Sorin, interrupted occasionally to greet some of the old gang. After getting settled in Sorin, I proceeded to the Com­merce building to get those famous cards of 
•admission to class. Ah! There was the place! Everyone asking, who d* ya have in such and such a class? And then stating. Oh. He's a —. You better go over and see the Dean and get that changed. See ya at the Caf. . . . 
"And soon it was football season and you just lived from one v.-eek-end to the other seeing who would win the most 'Phillip Morris Cigar­ettes*. -. Saturday afternoon, crisp and fragrant. The people filing into the stadium. . . The whistle for the kickoff. . . The roar of the spectrum-colored crowd. - . . Long passes: high spiralling-punts: long, thrilling runs; sharp, viscious tackles; clean, hard blocks. . . .Th e winning score. . . and then a trip downtown 
(after the steak supper in the Dining Hall) to the Colfax, or Andy Kekko's, or the Bowling Alley. . . The Sunday morning crowd in the Caf. . . An afternoon in Mayor Pavey's town. . . . and then back to Sorin where you decide that you better study for Monday's classes. . . . 
"But that all happened in September of other years—this is September, 1944. and I'm in Italy 
•wearing a khaki uniform. Then I remembered that Red Loneryan was the man in charge of the class of '43. news. Oh. I don't have much news, but I would like to be the recipient of some. 
"I WES stationed in Washington, D. C. for nine months, and. ofthand. I can only think of two. of the boys that I saw: one w-as the Great (^1 of Sorin, who was on his way for some further training in the Navy; and the other was Joe Becker, who was on his way down south to pick up a ship. But those incidents happened -six months ago. My brother, Pat, '35, wrote recently that he saw Dad Smith, somewhere in the South Pacific. 
"Since my Washington hitch, I have flown over to Europe. First to North Africa, where I staged in Algiers for awhile, and then up to Southern Italy. 
Here's a newsy letter from Georee Biittncr with the A.A.F. in San Antonio. Texas: 
"It is a very rare thing when you run into a Notre Dame man down in these parts. I haven't seen a familiar face from school ^nee Dippy Evanir Blickey Frawley and R»y Kaka went through the pre-flight -school here almost a year ago. Haven't heard anything of the latter two, but Dip is now stationed at Randolph field and is playing first string right half on their powerhouse football team. Expect to see him in another week when they play their first home game against S.M.U. 
"BUI Stewart is ranking up his first year as a statf sergeant at Camp Springs AAF. out­side of Washington, D. a He is doing physical training work and maldng his usual fine job of it. I thought I was going to have a little reunion with him in New York when I went home on furlough a few weeks back, but his pass didn't go through. He was married to Helen McNamara in Boston, last Easter, and they seem to have a good start toward living happily ever after. We have both more or less lost track of G&orre Murphy. Guess he has lost the writing touch, but I do know that he and the Mrs. became the parents of a girl a few months ago. 
"Jim Gallagher is now in England- He re­ceived his lieutenant (jg) in May. The invasion of southern France is the first beachhead that he has missed since the boys pulled out of Africa. Says he has seen plenty and is ready to head for the States anytime. He is engi­neering officer on an LST. 
"Hurdler Bill Dillon is now seeing foreign service somewhere in the Pacific theater with an Air Force group. He shipped out a couple of months ago. 5ays he likes it and doesn't expsct to be back until the whole bu^ness is finished. 
"I think it might be well to extend the em ­pathies of the class through your column in the next issue to Bob McFadden, who was called home from California last week, where he is stationed in the Navy, because of the death of his mother. Tom O'Mallcy is holding down a job in his own line in the General Electric Co, in Schenectady, N. Y. 
"I've been giving physical training to pre­flight cadets down here for a year now and was down in Florida before that. I like Te.xas just about as much as all the other Yankees down here. Have played tennis four times in two years. 
"John Kelly, who was with us for a couple of years, has been sent back to Chicago by the Army to get his medical degree at Loyola. Practically everyone in his family is now in one branch of the service or another. Bob Sweeney shipped out again about a month ago. after seeing plenty of naval duty in the Pacific. Lee Raymond is sU'll down in that territory accord­ing to my latest info. Ed Hoch is at the Marine quartermasters' depot in San Francisco." 
I am v.riting this from the new board of publications ofiice down at school. They have made executive offices out of old Brownson hall, so when we come through town we can no longer stay out in Brownson for the night Pat FOIer is hobbling around the campus with his two bad knees. He will graduate in February and will probably go into coaching, where he has se\-eral juicy offers. Wally Ztcmbi is coadiing the line and Crelffaton BfUIer is coaching backs this year. Both are living in Sorin. 
Around here I have been told that Ker 0*T*^ and Wally Bf^famars are both over in Saipan. They claim that G.I. morale has gone up 50% since they landed. Those who knew them realize this is not an exaggeration. Eddy Ryan has left Loyola med school to get a little active duty under his belt. He is now in boot camp down in Texas- We have been told that Jade Fearon has been reported missing over in France. Gene Fddic is in a service hospital in Idaho now, tecovering from wounds he received over in France­

"Hot Man" Tracey is night clerk in one of New York's hotels. Ed CalUgliaR is an officer in the Navy and is on active duty in the Atlantic. Just stopped to go over to the Huddle to have a sandwich and a coke and ran into Father Brennan. He gets younger every year. Jim and Bill Ford are coming to the end of their med training at Northwestern; Jim will soon be starting his ow*n practice. 
Bok Knlpers has been given another promotion with Braniff Airlines. He has been reservations manager for over a year and now will divide his time between managing the office and being one of BranifTs three sales representatives here in Chicago. 
Current whereabouts: Ens. Bob Burke, Lt. (jg) Charles Steltmann, Lt. Ed Hoch, USMC and Lt. Bob Sinon, USMC, all FPO's through San Fran­cisco. 
Lt. (ig) Bob McCafferty spent a well-earned rest at his home in Cincinnati after completing 13 months in the southwest Pacific area as com­manding officer of a torpedo boat. Everyone's mighty proud of Bob as he had been awarded the Presidential citation and the Silver Star for gallantry in action. Jim Fennell. Saratoga Springs, N. Y., has been assigned to Colgate University's V-7 School and is waiting orders to midshipman school. 
A navigator on a flying fortress in the Medi­terranean theater, Lt. Car] Coco* Lake CJharles, La., successfully flew his fiftieth combat mission. He flew this golden mission in early September when the group bombed a highway bridge at Belgrade, Yugoslavia. 
Upon leaving the United States for flying duty overseas, Carl was assigned to the oldest heavy bombardment group in the theater. This group has flown over 350 missions, bombing enemy installations in almost every Axis-dominated country in Europe from bases in England. North Africa. Russia and Italy. Carl has been awarded the Air Medal with two Oak Leaf Clusters and the European-African-Middle East theater ribbon with two battle participation stars. 
Newly commissioned: Ens. Georss Kelly, Rich­mond. Va., Naval Air Training Bsses, Pensacola. Fla.; Ens. Bill Ream, Los Angeles. Naval Air Training Bases. Corpus Christi, Te.xas; Ens. Ed D»rcr Dearborn, Mich.. Naval Air Training Bases. Pensacola, Fla. 
For "courage, coolness and skill" read the citation which accompanied Lt. Mike Fisch's award of the second Oak Leaf Cluster to the Air Medal. Mike, from Fairmont. Minn., is a co-pilot in n Eighth Air Force B-17 flying fort­ress group. 
From Lonis Kurtz, FPO, N.Y.C: 

"I don't know if you have heard about Pete Horitz or not. But he was seriously injured at Normandy and has been sent to Portsmouth Kaval Hospital, Portsmouth, Va. Some of his shipmates that I have talked to say that it was due to the grace of God and four hours hard work by an Army surgeon that he is alive today. Knowing Pete the way I did. it is no 
wonder that the grace of God helped him for 
he was a true Notre Dame man in his faith in God and the Blessed Mother. 
[Pete is now at home in Mansfield, O. He expects to return to duty after Jan. 1.—Eds.] 
"I also heard that Gene Fehllff was injured but I have not -seen him, therefore, I only have hearsay to go by. In the past few months I have seen a number of N. D. men: Gail Fitcfa, Tom CiKiney, Fred Gore, Frank Commins, Jim McElroy and Sam RIolter to mention a few. They all seem to be fine but. of course, anxious to get home. 
"My wife has been very faithful about sending me the "Alumnus' and I have really enjoyed it-Every time a bunch of us get together we ex­change what issues we have, so that I think all of us have seen all the copies." 
Lt. John Lanahan wrote to Scrap Young that he Avent through the torrid landings with the second Marines in the hitter's recent battling in the Marianas, and that it was very rugged going from the start. His executive officer out there is Capt. Paul Morrison, '39. 
From Ens- Gene Fehlig, U. S. Naval Hospital, Farragut, Idaho: 
"Ens. John O'&UUey, Terra Haute, Ind., who landed on the very same sector of Normandy, D-Day, as I, and who was engaged in the sams work, was taken prisoner by the Germans. For long we thought him gone: but news comes now, sent by Jack via a repatriated British Naval ofBcer, that he is safe and well in a prison camp. Indeed, good news for all of us, for we of his outfit regard him as being in that choice class of men who come no cleaner-cut. They don't come any better than Jack. 
"My partner in D-Day work was Capt. Bob McDononsh, *34, West Orange, N. J. He had graduated with my brother, Vince; it was a pleasure to work with him. 
"I'm still a patient at the Farragut Naval Hospital,—five months now. However, I have my wife and daughter with me. Ran into several 
N. D. men out here at Farragut. One of them was PhM 3/c Clay Duerr, *32, Benton Harbor, Mich." 
1944 
Excerpt from Ens. Bob Faught's letter, dated Sept 15. 
"I was in Hawaii not long ago (for the second time) and missed Bonnie Bonicelli by two days. Disappointed, but I'll probably run into him somewhere. I've seen lots of N. D. men—Jim McVay, Jack Tobin, Jim Fayette. Bill Boss, etc. I went to the N. D. alumni meeting in Hawaii a week ago Sunday and saw Lt. Frank Leahy, Father Corcoran, '30, (army chaplain), Ralph Vincigarra, John Hickey, and several others. 
"Our island here is very small with some shattered palm trees, a few jeeps, a beautiful air strip, lots of sand, and no women. I live in a Quonset hut called the 'Palmer House.' Some day I'll drop you a note from the coast of China!" 
Pfc. Dick Kelly, Terra Haute, completed an exacting course in a chemical warfare school at Edgewood Arsenal, Md. Vail Pischke, South Bend, has received the 1944 copyright law award of SlOO and a scroll from the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers for his paper on "Plural Liability of Musical Copyrighted Compositions." Before reporting for active duty. Ens. Jim Cunningham, Chicago, visited the c:tm­pus. After attending the midshipmen's scluxU at the N. D. naval training station, Jim received additional training as a supply oflicer at Harvard University. 

Chack Patterson, cjo FPO, San Frandsco. checked in with an interesting letter in early September, in which he mentioned meeting Ems. Jim Cnnnincliam in Chicago before Jim dashed oft to Harvard. Chuck had seen Bob Sanaa and bad heard of John Heneby (with the Signal Corps in CIB theater) and Bill Binct (with the amphibious forces). He added that Flichl Officer Kelly Cook. AAF, Lincoln, had stopped in to see Chuck's family in Gretna, Nebr. 
From '"somewhere in Germany" Jriin Beyerie wrote the following letter to Dave Condan: 
'*I am continually on the outlook for fellows from school, but I haven't met with too much success. Before I left the states, I ran into T«M Clemens, my old roommate from Alumni KUK We met near 42nd and Broadway and had a short chat Once, in England. I ran into Cleai Constantinc (he is the Constantine from Massa­chusetts). We were in the same camp and I met him after Mass one Sunday in July. Clem had been more fortunate than I had in finding fellows from school. 
"I spent three glorious days and nights in Paris. Its the most beautiful city I have seen over here. Its filled with side-walk cafes, beau-coup of beautiful women, bicycles by the thou­sands, excellent red and white wine, cognac and practically everything else your heart wants. with exception of a good meal and tobacca I attended Mass at Notre Dame Cathedral early in September on a lovely Sunday morning. I hear regularly from Bob Martina, via post. "Rie alumni magazine is a Godsend. I read it from cover to cover and anxiously await each issue. Wish it came oftener." 
From John Lynch, somewhere in Italy: 
"Having myself been invalided- back from the front, sustaining an old injury, not wounded, I have come in contact with the N. D. Club of Italy, rallying point of which is in the oflSce of Major John Hinkcl, '29. at the Allied Control Commission. 
"Today I heard from Jack Woelfle, who has been in the fight from Anzio to France. Another change: Pfc. Gerald Shofroncb, now in Washing­ton. D. C. I am trying to track down a Wiley and a McDonald, both, of N. D., who are re* ported as being in these parts." 
Lt. Bob Burgett. Fultonham, N. Y.. has re­turned to the states and the AAF Redistribution Station in Miami Beach. .Bob is the winner of 

•the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with two oak leaf clusters- During seven months in Italy he flew 50 missions as a B-24 navigator. Sgt. Bill Kelly, Andover. Mass., also on a B-24, is a gunner with the 15th AAF in Italy. After having recovered from injuries, for which he received the Purple Heart, Tom Clemens is in France. His brother. John, ex. '46. has gradu­ated from Penn State University in A.S.T.P. radio engineering. 
Ens. JOG Gall, c/o FPO, San Francisco, writes that his -skipper is a N. D. grad, class of '33. but doesn't mention his name. Lt. Sid Sinpaon was wounded Sept. 16 in Germany and is re­covering in a hospital in England. An infantry­man. Sid participated in the D-Day fighting. He has been awarded the Purple Heart medal. Lt. Bob MacDoncU is with the L.A.A.F. in Laredo^ Tex. 
Happy news for the parents of PhM Joe SWa, Cleveland, when they had word from Vice Admiral Itandall Jacobs who said that a pre­vious message, rei)orting Joe's death from wounds in the South Pacific last July 21. had been erroneous and that he was still living. 
1945 and Later 
DBTM S. Gmdn. Ike Gkicas* Tritaac. 
n. 
Ted Wcker, home from the Southwest Faeifie, visited N. D. at the time of the Wiwonain same. Bis next assicnment was transpoitatiao corps OCS at New Orleans. Pfc. Bab CCaDac­liaii. Ironwood; Hich.» was seriously wounded in Germany Sept 22 bat is convaleseing in a lioq>ital in Belginm. Bob has been in service fra- 17 months, in the .infantry. 
. Bin IKnnca is stndyine in the Navy' medical corps at Hicfaisan U. A sradnate of the New Orleans* transportation corps OCS, Lt. Jaim Namaa. Boston, has been assigned to active doty with the TC. SySct. Jaseph Sakdc. Hammond. Ind.. winner of the Air Uedal with foor oak leaf dusters and a Presidential Unit Citation, was asagned to the AAF Redistiibntion Station. Hiami. the early part of October- Joe, a B-IT gunner, flew 50 missions daring six months in the European theater. 
Lake EUggiaa was serioosly wounded in the fighting in Italy. Herk Cakman is now in the 

. midshipmen's school at Notre Dame. Bill Hakci is playing football again, this time for the Second Air Force Snperbombers at Colorado Springs. Colo. Newly commissioned an ensign. Jiks Gientatr was graduated from the Naval Air Gaining Bases. Corpus Christ!, Tex. 
Dick Teny, Kewanee. III., after much moving about the country, is now stationed at Ghanute field. Rantoul, IlL Bis brother. Bab. is at St. X,cnis University in the med school. Catdier in the N. D. baseball team for the last three years. Tammy Skcckaa entered boot training at Great Lakes in October. Hie Fifth Air Force in the southwest Faeifie says that Znd Lt. Bab Kneeland, Postville, Iowa, has been asagned as bombardier-navigator with the "Air Apaches'*, a crack Mitchell bomber-strafer outfit. Bob re­ceived his wings and commission in November, 1943. F Ijc Biad Kau was at the sub base in New London. Conn., in mid-October. 
Set. lim Jekuen. North £aston, Mass.. is in France according to word received from his father. Jim vidted Faris and the Cathedral of Notre Dame. He has been in the Army since June, 1943. and overseas since July, 1944. 
S 2/e Billy Caakfcy. Cleveland, checked in with a letter which admits that he's in for winter residence at Great Lakes, III. Bill sent a con­tribution to the Alnnmi Fund. 
PRAY FOR N.D. DEAD 
Through the active apostolate of Bev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C., every Notre Dame man killed or captured, or missing in World War II is bdng prayed for in at least one Mass each week by a "Stu­dent Samaritan." This movement, spon­sored by Our Sunday Vtsitor and directed by Father Gartland is oilisting the prayers and Masses of thousands of parochial and Catholic high school boys and girls, each of whom adopts a specific soldier from various casualty lists of our parishes, colleges and high schools. 
Father Gartland is also active in the Youth Section of O.S.V., and has issued a number of pamphlets for men in serv­ice, the latest being a strong case for purity in "Play Square." 

The Low Cost of Giving 
In the interest of accelerating the University's ability to meet the challenges of the day and its opportunities, J. Arthur Haley, '26, director of public relations, has issued a booklet entitled "Foundations." 
While the book is designed to suggest substantial gifts permitting some permanence of pur­pose, it contains a chart and some specific suggestions for immediate giving by individuals and corporations which will, through tax savings, allow the benefactor varying appreciable discounts. 
In the thought that some alumni are either indi\idually or corporately in a position to utilize these suggestions for the benefit of Noti-e Dame, the ALUMNUS reprints the chart for individual gifts, and a few notes from the suggestions for corporation donors. 
TABLE OF NET COST OF GIFTS MADE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DURING 1944* 
Cost oi First  Net Cost of First  
Net Income before Deduction oiGiits  Saving in Federal Income Tax on First SlOOoiGift  SlOOofGiitto Donor, after Deduction of Income-Tox Savings  Assumed Net Estate before Exemptions  Saving in Estate Tax for First $100 of Gift  SlOOofGiHto Donor's Estate (including Savings on 1944 Income Tax)  
$ 5,000  $22  $78  $ 20.000  No estate tax  $78  
10,000  30  70  50,000  No estate tax  70  
15,000  43  57  75,000  $6  51  
20.000  50  50  100,000  9  41  
30.000  62  38  100,000  7  31  
40,000  65  35  250,000  II  24  
50,000  72  28  250,000  8  20  
60,000  75  25  500,000  8  17  
70,000  78  22  500.000  7  15  
80,000  8i  19  500,000  6  13  
90.000  84  16  750,000  6  10  
100.000  87  13  1,000,000  5  8  
150,000  89  II  1,500,000  5  6  
200,000  90  10  2,000,000  5  5  

*Computcitions, which are a\aproximate, are based on Tax Rates effective November 15, 1944. and on the assumption that the taxpayer is ]naried with two dependents. 
Corporation Gifts 
"In the determination of taxable income, conti-ibutions made by corporations to religious or educational institutions are deductible to the extent of 5 per cent of the taxable net income before deduction of such contributions. Payment of conti-ibution, however, must actually be made during the taxable year. 
"Corporation tax rates vary from a minimum of 25 per cent to an approximate maximum of 90 per cent, depending upon the amount of income and the liability for excess profits taxes. 
"The amount of savings in taxes resulting from a gift depends upon the maximum rate of tax to which the particular corpoi-ation is subject ... " 
For further information, address J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations, University of Notre Dame, Noti'e Dame, Ind. 




