The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


Alumni eontributions 
VOL 4t 

Oct'Nov. 
James D. Cooney '59 ExzconvE SEOETWY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Editor 
Timothy J. Hughes '61 MANACINO EoiTOit 
George A. Scheuer '28 CHizr Cory EMTOK 
BUI MitcheU '71 EDITOCIAL ASSISTANT 
M. Bruce Harlan '49 CHIEF PBOTOGHAPBEX 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 HoNouKV PtEsmim 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 IVESIPENT 
Walter M. Langford '30 ViCE-IteSIDENT 
W. Jerome Kane '38 VlCE-I^IESIOENT Francis J . Wilson '28 ViCE-FfeESIDENT 
James D . Cooney '59 EXECUTIVE SECJIETAKY 
Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT SEOETAKY 
DntECTOKSTO M71 
W. Jerome Kane '38 (CLUB AcnvrnEs) P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 
Walter M. Langford '30 (CLASS AcnvrriEs) 1315 OlsegoSt., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42 (EXECUTIVC AND NOMINATIONS) 1113 Kocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 (SENATE AcnvmEs) 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange Fiark, HI. 60525 
Francis J. Wilson '28 (Pusuc RELATIONS AND ItevzLOPMENT) 6105 Howe St., Pitts­burgh, Pa. 15206 
DIKECIOSSTO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '45 (PLACZMENT, ADMIS­SIONS) P.O. Box 546, Buhl. Idaho 83316 
John T. Massman '56 (FACULTY RELATIONS) 3917 Braadivay, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 
Frank L. McGinn '52 (ACADEMIC ATFAIKS, REUGION k CinzENsaiP) 900 BMg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 

Robert L. McGoIdrick '56 (CONTINUINO EDUCATION, STUDENT AFFAHS) 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 
DDtECTOBSTO W73 
Daniel D. Canale '42, 1325 Commerce Title BUg., Memphis, Tenn. 38103 
Dr. John C. Lungren '38, 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90807 

James C. MacDevitt '35. 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck. N.Y. 110^3 
Joseph T. O'NeiU '53. 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul. Minn. 55102 
John R. Pineni '49, 17549 Kirkshire. Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 
1970 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Repnxiuc­tkm in whole or m part without written permission is prohiirited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May, August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
This issue proves that not all contributions by alumni to the Uni­versity have to come in the form of a dollar sign. 
One of the purposes of this magazine, as we have stated before, is to increase communication be­tween the different groups of the Notre Dame family—alumni, stu­dents, administration. We can also increase communication between members of the alumni association. 
One effort in this regard is con­tained on pages 8-9. Two of our recent graduates traveled to Mexico last summer for a vacation, but they brought back a story on stu­dent activism in that country, Why would we want to publish a story like this—especially since it has nothing to do with Notre Dame, on the surface at least? One reason is that it is a well done piece of writing by two of our graduates. And their subject matter—student activism — is much on the minds of people today. 
We hope to have more articles by ND alumni in the months to come. Their writings will be edu­cational as well as informative. The piece appearing in this issue would not have seen the printed page if it had merely been a travelogue of interesting sites south of the border. 
r r. Bill Toohey always seems to have a twinkle in his eye ajjd^ grin on his face. But that doesn't mean he isn't serious about the campus ministry program at ND. He talks about its concept and how he sees his role as the new director of campus ministry on page 5. 
We can capture the words of men like Fr. Toohey, and put them down on paper. But somehow the enthusiasm and dedication behind them is lost in the translation. The board of directors of the Alumni Association heard Fr. Toohey in their recent meeting. And they can tell you of their favorable impres­sions. 
Wur cover story this month con­cerns the student press at ND. It is suffering some growing pains, and Bill Mitchell tells about it on the opposite page. And Dick Conk­lin offers a critical analysis of it in his column. 
Mhe first general class reunion held in the Athletic & Convocation Center after the ND-Army game was a success. More than 2500 people attended. Thus, the Associa­tion is going to hold general re­unions after the remaining three home games. Also, graduates of St. Mary's College will be welcomed at these reunions. They will take place immediately after the games and run until 6 p.m. We'll be look­ing for you there. 
7^ 

FEATURES  
148  COVERING THE CAMPUS SCENE: STUDENT STYLE A NEW LOOK FOR THE CAMPUS MINISTRY  RATIONAL REBELS: STUDENT PROTEST IN MEXICO  
DEPARTMENTS  
Leonard H. Tose '37 (ATHLETIC) 64 W. 4th St., Bridgeport, F ^ 19405 


11  ND NEWS  
14  ALUMNI SPEAK  
17  CLASS NEWS  
45  

GRADUATE SCHOOLS 36 CLUB NEWS 39 ON RECORD 44 

ALUMNI ASK 
ND's major student media—radio station WSND, the Observer and the Scholastic — have grown in different directions in recent years, for different reasons. 
WSND, founded in 1947 and one of the oldest campus stations in the nation, is the largest organ­ization at ND. Its staff numbers 160 students. 
According to news director John Yurgo, a 21 year-old senior from Valencia, Pa., "The main purpose of the station is to provide enter­tainment—even news falls under this." 
Yurko has about 36 students working on the news side of the operation, putting together a five-minute news cast every day every hour from 8 a.m. to midnight. The station also does editorials, but only about twice a month. 
"We try to get the news out quickly and accurately," Yurko 


Covering the eampu9 scene: student »tyte 
The student media at Notre Dame search for money and maturity. 
by Bill Mitchell 
said, "and we generally leave an­alysis and commentary to the form that suits it best—print." 
The University pays $5,000 a year for the operation of WSND FM, but station manager Stephen Dellapietra said it's necessary to dip into $3,000 or $4,000 of the AM budget to keep FM going. The station receives nothing from the University for its AM operation, its $15,000 yearly budget funded mostly from advertising revenues. 
Yurko said the station will add a 1,000-watt FM transmitter the first day of the second semester, and expand its news coverage of South Bend. 
No one at the station receives a salary from the University for his work—and Yurko and Del­lapierra said that's the way the sta­tion wants to keep it. "If you get a salary from the University," Del­lapietra said, "you have some sort 
ofre^xMisibility to the people who are paying you—they could cooie and ask us to do something special for them. We want the station to be entirely student-run." 
Dellapietra said he will ask the University soon for a, "One-shot grant" of between $20,000 and $30,000 for capital expenditures. "Our equipment is 20 years old," Yurko said, "and is deteriorating 
quickly. If we're going to make 
any advancements, we need this 
grant" 

Yurko's major criticism of the station is its failure to do much experimenting. "We can take chances here that wouldn't be al­lowed to happen elsewhere. In­stead, though, we're aping the already established journalistic forms of network news." 
If the station is to attempt some experimentation, it will need "more people who are creative enough to do it," Yurko said. 
"There is no course that teaches creativity," he added. "Sometimes you wish there were." 

Observer 

On November 3, 1966 was bom the cause of what some people regard as the Scholastic's "identity crisis": The Voice, the independent newspaper that evolved into the present daily Observer. After al­most 100 years without a rival, the Scholastic was faced with competi­tion and a challenge to its role as weekly "newsmagazine." 
When Robert Sam Anson — a 1966 graduate who was held captive by Cambodian soldiers this summer while covering the war for Time—^took over as editor of the Voice, he found its major prob­lem to be inaccuracy. "The Voice was the leakiest of all ships," he said in a 1967 Scholastic interview, "incredibly bad by all standards, in taste and journalism." 
Since Anson's day, the Observer became a daily newspaper in 1968, lost its editors-in-chief in 1969 and 
1970, and just recently, decided to abandon its status as an "inde­pendent" newspaper and ask the University for funds. 
The latter move was proposed by Guy E>e Sapio, a senior who just recently resigned as the paper's publisher. He said a daily news­paper had become essential to the University—and that the adminis­tration ought to help foot the bill. 
Presently, the Observer receives about $10,000 from a two-dollar fee tacked onto students' fees. It also makes money from advertis­ing and circulation, but DeSapio said the paper needs more money 
— especially for new equipment and salaries for the editors—if it is to improve. 
Glen Corso, the new editor-in­chief, believes the answer lies in a centralized business and circula­tion staff for all student media on campus. 
Corso, a 19-year-oId junior from Massapequa, N.Y., majoring in Communication Arts, sees the primary role of the paper much as Anson did: "We have to inform and inform accurately." 
He is convinced of the merit of publishing the four or eight-page paper five days a week. "You can't come out once or twice a week and call yourself a news­paper," he said. "It's been proven that there's a definite need for a daily newspaper—and it's the only way to attract the advertising we need to grow." 
Corso said he puts in "about 45 hours a week" on the paper, and has had to "retire partially as a student." He doesn't agree with the procedure of some schools. 
however, which allows the editor of the paper to take the semester oft from classes. "You don't go to a university to become an editor," Corso said. "You go to become a student." He said he would favor a reduced course load for students. 
Corso conceives of the paper as a means to educate members of the community, and plans to improve its coverage of national and inter­national affairs by adding the New York Times News Service—prob­ably at the end of this semester. 
Of the 60 students listed on the Observer's staff, 17 are editors, 25 are involved in production, and the remainder are reporters and fea­ture writers. "The only way you can get beyond the bulletin board type of publication," he pointed out, "is if you develop a good staff of reporters—^and our news staff right now is not inquisitive enough to come up with a lot of good stories just waiting to be dis­covered." 
The dilemma will not be eased by the recently announced phasing out of the Communication Arts E>ept. "That certainly is not going to have any beneficial effect on us," Corso said. "We had planned to count fairly heavily on them. I don't know what we're going to do to attract people who are really in­terested in journalism." 


Sekolastie 
Scholastic editor Steven Brion responds to an "identity crisis" analysis of the post-Observer Scho­lastic with a suggestion of what the magazine has become: "It has moved from an issue-oriented mag­azine to one that attempts to com­bine those kinds of daily and im­mediate problems with more spir­itual problems—a dialectic that is at once healthy and dangerous. 
"Given the existence of a daily newspaper," he said, "the major function of a publication like the Scholastic is to attempt to examine questions and problems that are pertinent to the community, to question, and criticize when neces­sary, the whole direction of the University." 
Brion said the magazine must combine concern for particular events and issues on campus with such problems as: "What does it mean to become a Christian in an amoral, if not immoral world? Are 

contemplation and action mutually 
exclusive? How does one come to 
act well?" 
The problem for the magazine, he said, is to "maintain the vision and to concretize it at the same time. In other words, to make these larger problems as immediate to our readers as campus events." 
Founded in 1867, the Scholastic is the oldest weekly college mag­azine in the country. A staff of about SO students, 10 of whom are editors, published the 24 or 32­page magazine 23 times during the year—including two course evalu­ation booklets. 
Among the improvements Brion, a 21-year-old senior English major from Lindenhurst, N.Y., said he is trying to make is readership. "The problem of how to expand it may be finally unsolvable—it's tied up with the nature of the magazine. Even given that, there are several concrete things that can be done to increase readership—and they have to do with not being lazy and with putting our imaginations to work." 
In a recent column, Brion de­scribed the magazine as an effort to help members of the University community, "Become, in Frank O'Malley's words, 'men of courage, spiritually formed, incapable of dissociating ourselves from social and historical changes, capable of alleviating suffering caused by them.'" 
The Scholastic is allotted a $58,000 yearly budget, but last year spent $48,000. Included in its expenditures is $3,200 for salaries —^which is split among 10 editors, the business manager and the cir­culation manager. The magazine last year poured between $10,000 and $15,000 in circulation and ad­vertising revenues back into the general fund of the University. 
Recent developments regarding two other student publications. The Juggler, a magazine of the arts, and Ictus, published by the Non­violence Program, may be an in­dication that ND administrators have yet to overcome the tempta­tion of censorship. 
During the summer of 1969, the Vice Presidents' Council became displeased with The Juggler—par­ticularly with some four-letter words in its prose and poetry— and voted to revoke its $4,000 budget. The decision was over­turned and the magazine re-in­stated that fall, however, by the Student Life Council. 
The editors of Ictus were in­formed in October that an admin­istrative decision had been made last spring to prohibit the Non­violence Program's fiinds to be used for the magazine, but that decision has also been reversed. 
Ictus is a journal of essays, poetry and photography, concern­ing itself chiefly with philosophical and moral questions. 
Financial negotiations among the student media were initiated during October by Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, CSC, vice-president for student affairs. Corso and Brion have agreed that the tasks of their pub­
lications are suflSciently different to remain as separate entities—but that the business, advertising and circulatioa arms of each might benefit by a consolidation. 
The next step, according to Fr. Blantz, will be the considera­tion of detailed reports regarding the needs and resources of WSND, the Observer and the Scholastic. 
BUI Mitchell is a senior theology major at ND. He has served as an editorial assistant on the ALUM­NUS since his freshman year and is currently the managing editor of 
' the Scholastic. 
iS­
The Rev. William Tooliey CSC '52 
talks about his role as the new 
director of campus ministry at Notre 
Dame. The interview by the Rev. 
John Reedy CSC '48 appeared in the 
Oct. 3 issue of A.D. Correspondence 
@ 1970, Ave Maria Press. 
How do you view the responsibility' you've just accepted? 
First, everything I say is tentative, recognizing that my first responsi­bility is to look and listen. 
With this understanding, I think that the identity question of the campus ministry is the most important problem to face. 
If you see the service as Wm. Sloan Coffin does, "as a human being in residence," you approach it one way. If you see it as a man who brings a theological perspective to all dimensions of campus life, you will approach it another way. 
You could also see it as a coordinator of all kinds of social action service. Or as a supplier of liturgical services and personnel for various problems of counseling and guidance and worship. 
You haven't mentioned the role of oHicial representative of the organized church for this community. 
You mean as official representative of the bishop? No, really I can't see this as an operative principle directing my approach — though I can appreciate the point of view expressed as a theological relationship. 
Do you really know at this time how you are going to approach the job? 
Yes and no. 
I know what the basic effort must be. Everything we do must aim at making this a place where revelation takes place. 
I know that for the first six months or year a large part of my effort must be to see and communicate with all the parts of this community in order to understand the reality and the major needs. 
Do I know how to deal with 
m^M^ lo^k 


emmepsm miimistrg 
particular needs — such as a ministry to the community of black students or to faculty groups or off-campus students — no, I have to go to these people themselves for the under­standing and approach. 
You're seeing this "ministry" as something wider than the team of chaplains? 
Oh yes. far wider. 
In the very notion of a campus ministry, we are talking about involving all kinds of people—as most theologically alert parishes enlist sisters and lay people in the parish team. For example, here at Notre Dame there is a large group of highly qualified, highly dedicated sisters. 
On a campus which so needs the mature presence of women — espe­cially women who understand scholar­ship, service and the gospel message— it would be a monumental waste if we did not make special efforts to enlist them in the work of campus ministrj'. 
Let's go back to that idea of making revelation occur. 
Fine. Because that's central. 
If you understand revelation as a collection of theological propositions which state formally recognized doctrines, then you would see this ministry to be the explanation of these truths, constant reminders about them, exhortation to live according to a code contained in these propositions. 
But the whole contemporary theology of revelation goes far beyond that. 
This contemporary theology sees revelation as the experience of God meeting man — to which man re­sponds. And the degree of that response indicates to what degree he is really a believer. 
In this understanding the function of the church is to afford people revelation experiences, with all that means. 
For example? 
For example, helping to uncover and illuminate needs and opportu­
nities for service — through which the 
living Jesus expresses an invitation 
for response. 
Some of the needs would be 
institutionalized and are already being 
served. Groups of students regularly 
go into town to work with retarded 
children, to offer tutorial services for 
kids whose school and home situations 
put them under an educational 
handicap. Teams have been going 
to Mexico and Latin America during 
the summers to offer personal labor 
to communities which have 
invited them. 
But this can be a kind of respectable surface altruism. 
Sure, it can be only that. But part of the function of the campus ministry will have to be the uncover­ing of what is really involved in the response to the living Jesus. 
And you could have the same kind of surface respectability in most of the religious observance of previous generations. 
Just a short time back I was talking to a few fellows who had been observing and thinking about this polarization in the country. 
They were wondering if perhaps this was not really the work of today's young people, the students, to seek ways of oR'ering this service. 
And they weren't talking about national marches and that sort of thing. They kept using the term, "reconcile," finding ways to reconcile themselves to people down the corridor, to people who had repelled them because of the way they dressed .. . or smelled .. . or because of the music they played. 
This was a beautiful thing because it was recognizing that it was the sensitivity and the response that was important. It could and would flow out to all kinds of people according to their situations and involvements. 
You talked about helping to interpret revelation. 
This is just another aspect of the same work. It seems obvious that many things happen in people's lives 
"You really cannot look seriously at worship and personal religious observance as separated from the rest of the person's response to Jesus." 
which are — or could be — real 
revelation experiences .. . if they 
are recognized. 

In some CCD approaches, the 
lessons are taken not from the third 
chapter of the Dutch Catechism, 
but from the lives of the persons. 
What happened to you today? 
What did it mean? 

This is called the Emmaus ap­proach. When, after the crucifixion, Jesus met the disciples on the road to Emmaus, he asked them, in effect, what's new? When they told him that the Master had been seized and crucified, he interpreted it for them . . . and then their hearts burned within them. 
Are you saying that the religious practices and the traditional exhorta­tion to a moral life are of no importance? 
Certainly not! 

The religious practices and forms of worship are obviously an important part of this concern. But as practices and worship with meaning and significance! 
You really cannot look seriously at worship and personal religious ob­servance as separated from the rest of the person's response to Jesus. 
There have also been public state­ments about a widespread indifference to the traditional standards of sexual morality. Does this concern you? 
Sure it concerns me — not so much the charge as the fact, if it is a fact. All human conduct concerns me in terms of the approach I have been talking about. 
But, while concerned, I would probably be less worried about the human dimensions of an act of sexual immorality than I would about a person subjecting himself to the dev­astating effects of a serious drug habit. 
Why? According to our own terms, the use of another person m a 
promiscuous way could' be a more 
vicious . . . 

Sorry. I made the mistake which always seems to come up in discussing this subject — of presuming that we are talking about a single kind of human activity. Obviously, there is a different moral dimension — even when you accept all the traditional standards — between an act which was basically unplanned and un­intended between two people who love and respect each other . , . and the purely selfish act which treats the other person as an object of personal pleasure. 
But there has been such an over-stress in the past on this one matter of morality — as though sexual morality represented the totality of a person's response to God — that I avoid approaching it in a legalistic way, like a violation of a civil statute. When an act is immoral you should be able to demonstrate its evil dimensions in terms other than a simple violation of a law. 
At least you'd better be able to talk in those terms if you want to communicate with the youngsters today. 
On another subject, what are the outer limits of the liturgical observ­ance which you can develop? 
Well, there are all kinds of group­ings within this campus community, and I assume we shall work out varieties of liturgy and counseling for the various groups. (Just as an example, there are 600 student wives here. Not faculty, not students. With special problems and sensi­tivities and needs.) 
But in general, the standard I shall try to maintain is: What is liturgically responsible and theologically defensible 
Again, as an example. Right now, right here, I would not consider it to be liturgically responsible to conduct a penitential service in which a general liturgical absolution completely replaced individual con­fession and absolution. Obviously we shall have differences of opinion and interpretation. But on one thing, I believe everyone will agree: considering the international makeup of this campus community—the variety of ecclesiastical and theological backgrounds — this simply cannot be seen as the ordinary American territorial parish. 
On this point, what role do you see for die Department of Theology in the campus ministry? 
First, the theology department is charged with an academic responsibil­ity. I think it would be a mistake for it to teach theology with a view to evangelizing and ministering to people (except as the teaching function itself is a ministry). 
However, like all the special group­ings and individual talents, the theology department is a part of this community. As such it offers a tremendous resource in providing theological depth and perspective to the ministerial functions. Individuals in the department will participate — as they have in the past — in the works of ministry, in the development of a community of revelation experience. 
Campus preadencies are h^h-risk occupatioiis these days. Do you see your job as one which can accu­mulate fun retirement benefits? 
Someone remarked that I could consider myself a success if I lasted until the Homecoming Game. And someone has already tossed ah egg at my window when I posted — just for reflection — the picture of that young girl kneeling beside the stu­dent at Kent State. 
Of course, there are problems and risks, but I honestly believe the University is quite serious about this effort. And I am sure that I am. 



CLD rACES NEW PLACES 
The Most Rev. Alfred F. Mendez CSC, a member of the team which helped put the University back together after World War II, celebrates the 10th anniversary of his consecra­tion as bishop of the then-new diocese of Arecibo, Puerto Rico, on Oct. 28. He came from the CSC Mexican missions in Texas in 1948 and served in various capacities: hall rector, assistant in the Founda­tion Office, assistant director of the summer school, assistant to the vice-president for business affairs, in charge of student aid, director of the Placement Bureau, etc., etc. He relinquished these duties in 1956 when he was named to head up the fund drive for the new Moreau Seminary. Upon its successful completion he continued in the same role for Holy Cross House, the campus residence for retired and infirm priests and brothers. 
Bishop Mendez serves the diocese of Arecibo, which covers the upper one third of Puerto Rico and is the 12th largest in the United States, with vigorous and intelligent leader­ship. Since his arrival the diocese has doubled in parishes (25 to 48), number of priests (58 to 110), and nuns (90 to 175). There are more baptisms per year in Arecibo than in all five of the dioceses of Indiana combined. A recent Arecibo ordination class of six priests was the largest in the history of the Church in Puerto Rico, i.e., since 1511. He's had help from the campus: one of his priests is a ND graduate, Fr. Jose Ramos '64, and another, Fr. Rafael Matienzo, studied in the Graduate School in 1963-64. 
In number of Catholics (500,000) Arecibo is one fifth the size of the archdiocese of Chicago but has only l/25th the number of priests, a typical situation "south of the border." Bishop Mendez' dream for his diocese, as well as for the Church in all of Latin America, is the early restoration and expansion of the functions and dignity of the diaconate. Says he: "There are 450,000 priests working with two thirds of the Church in the world today and 50,000 working with the other third in Latin America. What we need are more deacons: married and unmarried, full-time and part-time, fully supported and 
partly supported, traveling and stationed, city and rural." Ironically, his own Puerto Rican bishops' conference has so far turned him down on a married diaconate. But, knowing Bishop Mendez. . . . 
Fr. John Scheberle CSC, prefect and philosophy teacher, was injured in an auto-bicycle accident in 1965 and is still in a semi-coma. He can be moved around Holy Cross House in a wheel chair and seems to recognize people and events about him. 
Brother DePaul Byrne CSC served at Notre Dame from 1928 to 1940, first in the post office and then in the treasurer's office. After leaving the University he held posts in CSC houses in Washington, DC, and North Easton, Mass., was treasurer for the Indiana Province and then accountant for several of its institutions until his retirement in 1967. He lives at Holy Cross House. 
Brother Meinrad Secard CSC, bookstore manager from 1933 to 1947 (he broke in the present incumbent. Brother Conan Moran), held a similar post at the U. of Portland in Oregon for many years and now serves the communi^ as bookkeeper there. 
Rev. Roman Ladewski CSC, former teacher of theology, prefect, counselor in the scholarship office, then counselor and chaplain at St. Mary's College, is now chaplain at Ursuline Convent and Academy, the motherhouse of the Ursuline Sisters, at Paola, Kans. 
Many alumni, members of the Economics Roundtable, will remem­ber the annual excursion (in the early years, by electric suburban train similar to the South Shore) to the Niles, Mich., home of the late Prof. William Downey, moderator of the group from its inception in 1930 until his death in 1954. They will recall with pleasure the gracious hostess, the laify of the house, Mrs. Downey, and her bountiful table. She still lives in the same home and has been employed at St. Mary's College for die past ten years, first as housemother in LeMans Hall and now as receptionist there. 
Rev. John Wilson CSC Box D Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


Rational rebeis: student protest in Mexico 
By Joel Connelly '69 and Howard Dooley '66 
Joel Connelly '69 is a freelance journalist working toward a graduate degree in political science at the if. of Washington and Howard Dooley '66 is an instructor of history at Western 
Michigan U. They traveled to Mexico 
last summer and observed the' student 
protest scene there. 
A vacation in Mexico, to many Amer­icans, seems to offer a convenient escape from the permanent state of political aggravation which has gripped the United States in recent years. 
Americans from both sides of the so-called "generation gap" have found there a sunny and tranquil refuge from the noise and confusion of the new American "revolution." Mexico, proudly proclaiming itself "Latin America's most stable country," ap­pears to have escaped the angry clouds which darken the scene across the border. 
But appearances can be deceptive. 
On Dec. 1 Mexico will inaugurate a new president, Louis Echeverria, the successful candidate of the ruling 
P.R.L (Institutional Revolutionary Party) party who garnered 87 per cent of the vote in the July elections. One of his first tasks will be to con­sider granting amnesty to more than 100 imprisoned student protesters. Most of these students have been held without trial, public hearing, or even formal charges for nearly two years. Most of them were arrested during student protests in 1968 which cul­minated in a bloody confrontation at Mexico City's Plaza of Three Cul­tures on Oct. 2 of that year. 
The Plaza is a symbol of modem Mexico, a national monument in the very heart of the capital. High-rise apartment houses tower over the remains of Aztec temples and a re­stored Spanish colonial church. At this site in 1521 Hernando Cortes overthrew the Aztec Empire; a plaque marks the spot where the last Aztec emperor was put to death by the Spaniards. 
Two years ago history of another sort was made here when Mexican paratroopers and security police ordered to the scene by President Diaz Ordaz and Interior Minister Luis Echeverria opened fire on a crowd of students peacefully protesting what they believed to be the misallocation of national resources to the Olympic Games. It was a massacre: between 30 and 100 students were killed, more than 500 were wounded, and hun­dreds of others were arrested. 
On the campaign trail from the northern provinces all the way south 
to Yucatan we found Mexican stu­dents unanimously opposed to the candidacy of Echeverria. At one uni­versity the students dug a moat around their campus to keep the P.R.I, campaign caravan out. Every­where the students seeing no effective opposition to the government and its official candidate mobilized to protest against one-party rule and what they claimed to be an "electoral farce." 
They had a point. The nominal opposition in the presidential balloting, the National Action Party (P.A.N.), ceased its campaign a full week before the July 5 election date. Two addi­tional parties, one of them nominally socialist, endorsed Echeverria and busied themselves plastering the cities and countryside with posters advertis­ing their support for the P.R.I. nom­inee. 
We attended a student protest rally at the huge campus of the National University on the outskirts of Mexico City. The students were gathered beneath the stunning University Library, a building highlighted by a four-sided mosaic mural depicting Mexico's struggle for independence and revolution. The brilliantly colored mosaic proclaimed "Viva la Revolu­cion," but far below the students spoke not of revolution but of reform. 

It was a surprising scene to those who have become accustomed to the American campus protest scene. The crowd did not march and chant but rather listened attentively as half a dozen leaders condemned Echeverria and "the P.R.I, machine." However, their words went beyond condemna­tion as each speaker called for organ­ization and a student alternative. A student-based political party was advocated. There was an overall air of rationality, and none of the petty fanaticism which has come to char­acterize many antigovernment rallies in the U.S. 
The rally lasted an hour. The 2,500 people present politely ap­plauded the calls for peaceful reform. The scene was impressive—even a bit dramatic—^but also of note was the fact that no press personnel were on hand to record it. 
There were no jostling television crews, no reporters taking notes. The only nonstudents present were the ubiquitous gum salesmen and shoe­shine boys, and those standard fixtures at protest gatherings worldwide, Trot­skyite newspaper salesmen. 
The rally was organized out of a "headquarters" located next to a base­ment garage. The small room was recognizable only by a small sign pro­claiming Oct. 2, 1968, as the "Noche Triste" of Mexican students. Inside, a few people sat behind empty desks under bare walls. Nobody banged away at typewriters, no mimeo ma­chines churned out strike propaganda, and there was not a telephone to be seen. The literature, stickers, and posters — all the paraphem^ia of semi-theatrical U.S. campus protest— were absent. The atmosphere was businesslike, one of earnest organiz­ing, and in no way that of a carnival. Like the grey walls, the mood was 
grim. 
The student leaders we interviewed talked freely of their ideas and activi­ties, but reftised to allow photographs and asked that their identities not be divulged. Their fear was understand­able for as we spoke at least 135 stu­dents languished in Mexico City's Lecumberri federal prison, one of them an American from New York. They expressed fear of the Federal Police and suspected them of attempt­ing to infiltrate the movement. They spoke exclusively of political issues, exhibiting no interest in any form of "cultural revolution." They were, to a man, well-dressed products of Mex­ico's growing middle class. There was not a fake proletarian among them, and we heard much talk of the van­guard role of the intellectual in Mex­ican society. 
A tall humanities student with a Pancho Villa mustache most eloquent­ly expressed the feeling of those with whom we spoke. 

"P.R.I, has become an octopus," he explained, "and its tentacles reach into every comer of life in this country. Its elections are a farce, a means of maintaining control rather than providing an honest choice. The' opposition parties provide no real alternative. They are out for their own good. Our 'socialists' are not true socialists. They endorse the interior minister in the election. They are out for their own riewards from the gov­ernment What we want is either an 
authentic democracy or an authentic 
socialism." 
This latter remark illustrates the 
essentially reformist goals of the 
movement. In a conversation which 
lasted more than two hours and in­
volved at least 15 students there was 
not one call for revolution or violence. 
The students spoke of the need for 
organization and evinced a remark­
able willingness to be patient and wait 
for their cause to win support outside 
the universities. Upheaval was dis­
missed as neither feasible nor desir­
able. 
As we listened to the words of the 
students we thought of the campaign 
rhetoric of Echeverria. 
The government claims that Mexico 
is a "developing democracy." Mex­
ico's students are speaking out in the 
belief that this increasingly sophis­
ticated nation is ready for a mature 
democratic system now or, at any 
rate, in the near future. They are 
convinced that the "development" 
phase of one-party rule from the top 
must come to an end. 
"What we are protesting is hypoc­risy," one political science student told us. "Our role is that of the con­science of the nation, and that con­science cannot forever tolerate dis­honesty," asserted another. 
P.R.I, has been the ruling party for 40 years. Its success in institutionaliz­ing the 1910 revolution is the secret of Mexico's political stability. But it is also the source of grievance with the nation's budding intellectual and technical elite. The sons of the Estab­lishment are those endeavoring to pro­vide an alternative to the monolith or at least make it more responsive and flexible. 
We were very impressed by the moderation and dedication of these dissenters. They entertain no apoca­lyptic hopes of "transforming society" or "smashing imperialism" so there is little chance they will lapse into anarchistic violence or nihilistic des­pair in the way their American counterparts have. P.R.I., which is revolutionary in name only, has noth­ing to fear from its student critics. In the long run it is not at all unlikely that this ruling party which makes room for all ideologies and all classes will institutionalize the student move­ment too. 
FIGHTING IRISH 



CawnpMM headUnes
FOOTBALL HOLIDAY 
In Las Vegas and Los Angeles 
Nov. 25-29 
JET FLIGHT 
The round-trip United Air­
lines charter jet will leave Chi­
cago on Wednesday, Nov. 25 
for Las Vegas. 
TURKEY DINNER 
A cocktail party will wel­come you to the fabulous Caesar's Palace Hotel where a Thanksgiving Turkey Dinner and show in the Circus Max­imus are scheduled for Thurs­day. 
The tour will leave Las Vegas on Friday for Los Angeles where accommoda­tions will be provided for two nights in the Ambassador Hotel. 
HOSPITALITY SUITE 
In Los Angeles the ND Hos­pitality Suite will be open in the Ambassador from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. Thursday; 9 a.m. to midnight Friday and from 9 a.m. to noon Saturday. 
GAME TICKETS 
All will have reserved seat tickets for the ND-USC foot­ball game on Saturday with corsages for the ladies. 
A special farewell party also is planned at the Am­bassador. 
This tour is open only to members of the ND Alumni Association and their immed­iate families. 
PRICE 
The price is $309 per person (based on twin room occupancy) and reservations are being taken by the Alumni Association, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


REUNIONS 
•
 After each ND home game 

•
 North Dome of ACC 

•
 ND-SMC graduates of all classes welcome 

•
 From game's end to 6 p.m. 



By Richard W. Conklin, Director of Information Services 

OBSERVER EorroR BACH RESIGNS/ 

PUBLICATION SUSPENDED—September 
29, 1970 
OBSERVER BACK/GLEN CORSO 

ELECTED EDrroR—Octobcf 1, 1970 
Such are the trials and tribulations of today's campus journalism. If it is not the once-great Daily Cardinal at the University of Wisconsin drawing fire from a near-moribund publica­tions committee for writing the New-speak editorial of the year in defense of campus bombing, it. is Notre Dame's struggling daily newspaper trying to survive perennial problems of staffing and financing. 
Before I go further in this discus­sion of campus print media, it might be well to present my credentials. In chronological order, I have been an editor-in-chief of a college annual, an editorial director of a college news­paper, an editor-in-chief of a college newspaper, a metropolitan daily news­paper reporter, a college journalism instructor, an adviser to a student newspaper, and finally, simply an avid reader of the campus press. 
The principal vehicles of student-printed journalism at Notre Dame, both of which operate without censorship restrictions, are the Scholastic and the Observer. (Let me acknowledge here the professional job performed by Notre Dame's student-iun radio sta­tion, WSND, whose news operation is limited only by the fact that, be­cause of technical broadcast limita­tions, it is heard by virtually no ad­ministrators or faculty members.) In modem times, the ancient Scholastic has displayed an identity problem, vacillating between the formats of a news magazine, a literary journal and a magazine of opinion and commen­tary. Its strengths have been a bright staff, imaginative design, an occasion­al insightful single-theme issue, and three prodigious teacher evaluations. Its weaknesses have been an ideologi­cal inbreeding, an under use of a faculty whose diverse opinions could provide a counterpoint to the relative sameness of student ruminations (this has noticeably. improved), and an elitist mentality which has answered charges of dwindling readership with: "We influence the small group which sets the tone of the campus." 
Because the Scholastic, a weekly. 

grew increasingly indifferent to hard news at the very time more and more was happening on campus, a com­petitor, the Voice, arose in 1966 and from its ashes came the present-day Observer, bom as a Hearst-style sheet and progressively improved by its edi­tors. It has suffered from an inex­perienced and overworked staff which has attempted to pick up reporting and editing techniques in the bleary hours which greet all who meet daily deadlines. Its editorial-page offerings have not equalled the sophistication of the Scholastic commentary, but they have far outstripped it in variety of opinions. 
The Observer serves an invaluable function in reporting day-to-day cam­pus events, a job which many of to­day's neophyte journalists disdain. (A South Bend Tribunereporter who interviewed editors of the Observer and Scholastic in 1967 found out — much to his surprise — that both eschewed the lowly job of news re­porting in favor of the mantle of opinion-molding.) Oddly enough, there is no solid tie between the communica­tion arts department and those history, sociology, political science and En­glish majors who seem to dominate the staffing of student publications, despite good will on both sides. The recent crisis over the future of the Observer, however, has laid the groundwork for more cooperation than has been evident in the past. 
Money is another major problem. While the Observer gets a S2 subscrip­tion fee from each student, the Scho­lastic gets a University subsidy vari­ously estimated at from $35,000 to $50,000. The Observer is solvent enough to publish but not to pay its editors—as the Scholastic does. There is room on campus for the two publi­cations, but more and more persons feel that both should share equally in the University's largesse. One solu­tion would be to combine the staffs, the budgets, production, advertising and business affairs of both publica­tions, while preserving a complemen­tary editorial relationship. TTie new publication, let us call it Notre Dame, could appear as a hard news-oriented publication Tuesday through Friday, with a Monday edition of criticism, editorials, and commentary, inter­spersed with creative writing. This tandem arrangement has its own prob­lems, but it is better than losing either of the present publications. 


Oct.-Nov. 1970 



ND NEWS 
Alamni seaate meetings set 
Members of the ND Alumni Senate will attend area meetings in widely-separated sections of the country during November. 
Major business items scheduled for discussion include: 1, Increased involvement by alumni in community service; 2, Continuing education for alumni; 3, Expanded placement service for alumni and summer job placement for students; and 4, Additional areas of involvement for women in the Clubs and closer co­operation with the Alumnae Assn. of St. Mary's College. 
Senators and elected board repre­sentatives of Area 1 will meet Nov. 1 and 2 in the St. Francis Hotel, San Francisco, Calif. Alumni Directors W. Jerome Kane, Seattle, Wash., Dr. John C. Lungren, Los Angeles, and Robert A. Erkins, Buhl, Idaho, will direct discussions of representatives from Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. 
East-central representatives will meet Nov. 5 and 6 in Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education with Francis J. Wilson, Pittsburgh, John R. Panelli, Detroit, and Walter M. Langford, South Bend. States repre­sented in this area include Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Western Pennsylvania and West Virginia. 
An area meeting in New York City Nov. 15 and 16 will bring together delegates from Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Eastern Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and Virginia. Board mem­bers include Leonard A. Tose, Philadelphia, James C. MacDevitt, Great Neck, L.I., and Robert L. McGoldrick, West Hartford, Conn. 
Delegates from southern states will meet Nov. 8 and 9 in the Roosevelt Hotel, New Orleans, La., with Donald 
F. O'Brien, Houston, Tex., current president of the ND Alumni Assn., Daniel D. Canale, Memphis, Tenn., and Frank L. McGinn, Lighthouse Point, Fla. Represented will be clubs in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas. 
Midwest delegates, representing clubs in Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota and Wisconsin, will meet Nov. 22-23 at O'Hare Inn, Chicago, with Leonard 
H. Skoglund, retiring honorary president; John T. Massman, Kansas City, Mo., and Joseph T. O'Neill, St. Paul, Minn. 


Alumni directors nominate eandidates 
Ballots for the 1971 Alumni Board election are going into the mail following approval of the slate of nominees submitted at the Sept. 24-26 meeting of the directors at the University. In addition to biographical information each ballot contains a general statement by the nominees on their ideas about the Association's future. 
The slate prepared by the nomi­nating committee follows: 
Region /—^Washington, Oregon, Northern California and Nevada— William H. Sherman '49, San Rafael, Calif., and Charles F. Osbom '38, Seattle, Wash. 
Region VI—Illinois—Bernard J. Hank, Jr. '51, Moline, III., and Joseph 
G. Bertrand '54, Chicago, HI. 
Region VIII—^Indiana and Ken­tucky—^William K. McGowan, Jr. '57, Indianapolis, Ind., and James L. Meagher '44, Louisville, Ky. 
Region IX—Ohio and Western Pennsylvania—^Peter F. Flaherty, Pittsburgh, Pa., and James C. Britt '53, Dayton, Ohio. 
Region XIII—Oklahoma and Texas —Paul J. Doyle, Jr. '36, Houston, Tex., and Robert S. Williams '59, Dallas, Tex. 
All members of the board were present for the opening session which was addressed by Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC, University provost. He spoke on the importance of implementing programs of continuing education for the alumni. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, presi­dent, also greeted the directors and introduced new members of the administration. 
At the next session Philip Faccenda, vice-president and general counsel, took up questions posed by board members, such as forthcoming resolutions of the board, campus security, minority student emollment, the future of ND's post-season bowl policy and the drug scene. 
Smdent Affairs Committee Chair­man Robert L. McGoldrick intro­duced Rev. Thomas Blantz CSC and Rev. James Shilts CSC, the newly appointed vice-president and assistant vice-president of student affairs. Fr. Blantz said he hoped this would be a year of consolidation at the University, with a positive approach to student life. 
Fr. Shilts said that one of his major responsibilities will be to maintain communication with student govenunent and other student program groups. 
The newly appointed director of campus ministry. Rev. William Toohey CSC, was introduced by Frank McGinn, chairman of the religion and citizenship committee. Fr. Toohey indicated that there will be an expansion in the service of the campus ministry. He pointed to the need for care in campus ministry for wives of students, black students and members of other minority groups including those who are Protestant or Jewish. 
Rev. James L. Riehle CSC, dean of students, reported on the status of the campus judicial code awaiting approval of the Student Life Council. 
David Krashna, student body president, spoke at a luncheon of board members, their wives and Student Government Cabinet mem­bers and their dates. He said the area most in need of development at ND is the social atmosphere for students attending the University. 
Dr. Peter P. Grande, director of the admissions office, was introduced by Robert A. Erkins, chairman of the admissions conunittee. It was brought out that the admissions office plans to rely more fully upon the assistance of the Ahimni Schotds Committee in attracting qualified 

Oct.-Nov. 1970 



ND NEWS 
students, including students from 
minority groups. 
Richard D. Willemin, newly 
appointed director of the Placement 
Bureau, explained that the role of the 
bureau is to help students decide 
their academic goals and their career 
goals. . 
Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of the 
Center for Continuing Education, 
reviewed past attempts of the Alumni 
Office and the Center in the area 
of continuing education for alumni. 
New programs were discussed and the 
Board agreed with Dr. Bergin that 
regardless of the vehicle chosen it 
must offer complete information on a 
topic of general interest at a con­
venient location and at a reasonable 
cost 
James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and development, reported on the progress of SUMMA and pointed out the growth in financial needs of the University. Assistant Vice-President James E. Murphy and Frank G. Kelly, director of development, discussed the current annual fund mailing program and asked for suggestions on future mailings. 
The board approved the dates of Feb. 4-6 for the winter meeting of the directors and changed the structure of Regional Alumni Senate meetings to Area Alumni Senate meetings to be conducted each fall. 
Eleetion recess voted down atND 
A proposed November election recess was turned down by a wide mar^n in a referendum of students and faculty at ND and Saint Mary's, Oct 2. 
The proposal, which would have suspended classes between Oct 24 and Nov. 4 with makeup sessions later, lost by a vote of 382 to 61 cast by the combined faculties of the two institutions and by a vote of 3,200 to 1,027 cast by the combined student bodies. 
The percentage of eligible faculty members voting was 52 per cent and 47 per cent of the combined student bodies cast ballots. An absolute majority of both groups was necessary for a recess. The purpose of the proposed recess was to release students to campaign for candidates of their choice. 


ND president sees crisis faced by nniversities 
In his annual fall term address to the faculty, Oct 5, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND president, said that American universities face an unprecedented crisis of public con­fidence. 
"Never before," he continued, "has the university taken on more tasks, and been asked to undertake many more, while the sources of support, both public and private, both moral and financial, seem to be drying up." 
The university president is often the victim of conflicting constitu­encies, observed Fr. Hesbur^, who is entering his 19th year as ND's 15th president "The great majority of the best university presidents that I have known, respected and worked with over the past years are simply resigning to escape what has become an impossible task: to keep peace inside and outside the university. 
"Trustees cry 'law and order,' and students condemn this concept as another form of 'status quo* in a very imperfect worid. Alumni think the whole enterprise is coming apart at the seams, while faculty call for even greater changes than those now taking place. Benefactors lose confidence in the whole unruly endeavor when they are attacked by students or faculty because they are accused of giving money gained throu^ what is pro­claimed to be an unholy military-industrial alliance. Parents expect a control over their children which they themselves have never been able to maintain, while the students in turn want absolute freedom and certainly no one acting in the place of their parents, however ineflFective these may have been. At tfab punt, the president, who is believed to be in charge althou^ his authority has been monumentally reduced, beg ^ to see that he simply cannot succeed unless the academic community is a real 

community—something beooming 
ever more rare in university circles." 
On the positive side, Notre Dame's 
president noted the following: 
—^A reemphasis on teaching, which 
for many professors had been slowly 
replaced'by research. 
—^A laudable moral concern 
evident in students. 
—^A more realistic view of the 
service limitations of the university. 
("The university cannot become a 
Red Cross .. . it is not an overseas 
development corporation or a foreign 
or domestic Peace Corps.") 
—^A readiness to experiment with 
new forms of governance without 
confusing the specific tasks of trustees, 
faculty, administrators or students. 
Fr. Hesburgh repeated his belief 
that "the university can and must 
remain politically neutral as an 
institution, although its faculty, 
students, and administrators are free 
to take their own political stance, 
indeed must do so when faced with 
national and international crises with 
deep moral undertones." 
He concluded: "I do not believe that the university has by any means come to the end of its road, but I am willing to concede that it faces a foric in the road and must make some real decisions as to where it is going." 


N» fealnred in TV network special 
A segment of the NBC-TV "First Tuesday" program scheduled for 
Dec. 1 has been fihned at ND. Arriving the day before the Army game, Patrick Trece of "First Tuesday's" New York-based staflf said the program was intended to explore "non-vi(dent change at Notre Dame." 
Starting with the pep rally, the crew filmed and tidied a variety of campus activities. Doa Miller, Paul Homung and Alumni President Donald F. O'Brien were interviewed. Later the black studies director. Dr. Joseph W. Scott, got the qmtli^t as did President Titeodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Provost 
T. Burtchaell CSC, and Father William A. Toohey CSC, director of campus ministry. 
A folk Mass in Sacred Heart 

Oct-Nov. 1970 



ND NEWS 
Church and scenes in the reading rooms of the Memorial Library as well a views from the top of the Library were filmed and of course the ND Band was taped playing "The Notre Dame Victory March." 
EnrollmeDt up to record 89I56 
Enrollment at ND reached a record of 8,156, including 1,737 in the largest freshman class, this semester. The registrar's office reported 6,407 undergraduates, 1,325 graduate stu­dents and 424 in the Law School. 
There are 1,204 ND students taking courses at SMC and 765 SMC students in ND courses. In addition 45 Purdue U. students are enrolled in an ND course on the Purdue campus. Sixty-eight ND students are attending "year abroad" study courses in Rome. 
Other overseas campuses include Innsbruck, Austria, with 34 students; 
U. of Sophia, Tolqro, Japan, 20; and Angers, France, 25. There are 17 at Anahuac, Mexico City, and 25 second-year law students attending classes at the U. of London. 
**All'sweM..." 
A non-stop reading from the works of Shakespeare, which continued for 97 hours and 10 minutes despite rain, cold and dark of night on the ND quadrangle during the Army game weekend raised nearly $2,500 in donations for Sister Marita's Primary Day School in South Bend. 
Students and faculty members from ND and SMC were aided by volunteer readers in the "Shakespeare­athon" which went through the entire works of the bard and finished 12 minutes ahead of schedule. The last readers intoned the end of "All's Well That Ends Well" in unison as a fitting finale. 
The fund was collected for the private school for disadvantaged children conducted by Sister Marita. a nun from the Franciscan convent in Mishawaka. Residence halls gave $1,300 to the fund instead of spend­ing it on decorations for the homecoming. 
Dr. Paul Rathbum, an assistant professor of English inv(dved in the project, said the drive for the school would continue. 

Fr. Hesbargh asks IJ.S. Poltej voiee for edacation 
In a letter to President Nixon, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND president has suggested a voice for the nation's higher education com­munity in setting national priorities. 
Fr. Hesburgh's letter was a reply to President Nixon's recent mailing to some 900 university administrators, trustees and others of a copy of an article written by Dr. Sidney Hook, a professor of philosophy at New York U., which described the demands of student militants as a threat to academic freedom. 
Noting that he had endorsed publicly many of the positions taken by Hook, Fr. Hesburgh wrote the President, "One must still seek for the roots of student unrest. My own best opinion is that, while students often talk about basic probelms, such as war and peace, civil rights, poverty, environment, and quality of life, basically they are questioning the priorities of our nation as reflected in the national budget. On this point, they have some valid objections with which all of us should be concerned." 
Fr. Hesburgh elaborated his thoughts on national priorities in a memorandum he enclosed and to which he called the President's attention. The memorandum, which grew out of a discussion last May between the board of directors of the American Council on Education and the President's adviser. Dr. Alexander Heard, suggests that if the American academic community wants to be heard in the White House, it should have some positive suggestions. "It seems to me," ND's president says in the memorandum, "that the most important matter facing the nation in which we could have a very positive, intellectual input would be entitled, 'Priorities for the Nation.*" 
While admitting that the nation "cannot be run by 2,500 institutions of higher education, nor should it 
be," Fr. Hesburgh points out that the higher education conununity—^faculty, students, administration, trustees and ahimni-^epresents at least 30 per cent of the nation's population. "I fully realize," he writes, "that it is rather difikult to wganize a totality as great as this, but it would seem to me that we could set up cimsortia of universities and ccrileges having similar backgrounds and concerns, and, within these institutions, fonn 
bodies who could devise sets of pri(mties, or national values, or 
scenarios for the future that would be acceptable to the majority of our 
members." 
The memorandum predicts that the President and the Congress would find such a distillation of ideas helpful and that the willingness of the higher education community to tackle the nation's probfems mig^t "restore public confidence in the university as an institution integral to the progress of this nation." 
is to sit OB i«il 

Student representation on the aca­
demic council of the University, with 
fill] speaking and voting privileges, 
was decided upon at a Sept 21 
meeting of the council. 
The policy as adopted calls for the election annually of seven students during a two-year trial period. The council retains the ri^t to increase or decrease the student representation in proportion to changes in the total membership and at the end of two years the council will review the policy to determine if it should be ccmtinued or altered. 
The seven student members will include one from each of the four undergraduate colleges; onefirom the combined Law School and MBA Program; one firom the Graduate School and the academic commis­sioner of Student Government as an ex-(^do member. 
One of the seven students also will 
be chosen by the council to serve aa 
its steering cranmittee. 
The ND council action followed a joint session with the academic affairs council of Saint Mary's College. 
Alumni speak 



A new bag 
By Donald F. O'Brien, 
President, Alumni Association 
Things on campus have changed sub­stantially for the better since spring. That was obvious to your IS Alumni directors at their fall board meeting, Sept 24-26. 
A new administrative structure, new personnel in new assignments, new objectives and pisms, new vigor and enthusiasm everywhere — all have contributed to the highly suc­cessful launching of the new school year. 
The new administrative team is well organized and coordinated. Its members have developed short-range plans of a distinctly positive charac­ter, and are at work on long-range goals. And apparently they have de­
Student vievr 


Campus ealwn or Impotent? 
By Bill Mitchell 
If you've made it to campus at all this fall, you've probably noticed the graffiti remnants of a tumultuous spring at Notre Dame: ON STRIKE, the bold announcement splashed upon ND's pillars and posts May 4, sur­vived the summer cleanup. 
Already, though, the paint of what was such a fervent slogan seems fad­ing toward anachronism. ND in the fall of 1970 is a radically different place from the liturgical sanctuary of a Moratorium Mass or the political arena of a student strike. 
ND has moved from the peace and brotherhood of last fall through the outrage and alienation of the spring to a new year that is not easily cate­gorized. Unlike the visibility they ex­hibited a year ago, student attitudes now seem somewhere below the sur­face — as if not yet aware of the new calendar and its early start of school. 
And while any appraisal of those attitudes should be read in the hazy light of speculation, a few observa­tions seem fair: 
—A lot of students learned a lot during their summer vacations. Three months in everyday America seems to have yielded an unusual educa­tion in politics and culture. Many stu­dents returned to school this fall with veloped excellent rapport with stu­dents and faculty. 
Particularly gratifying to the Alumni Board — and, we believe, to alumni everywhere — are the establishment of a new program of campus ministry and the revitalization of the ndes of hall rectors. We understand that the entire CSC order was screened to find men highly qualified to serve as rectors and priest-counselors to stu­dents. In all, 40 priests and two bro­thers were selected to serve as rectors and assistants. Many of them were brought to the campus fron other as­signments around this country and abroad. Meanwhile, plans are under way to develop the campus ministry into a community-wide program, with clerics and rectors sharing a portion of their roles with lay faculty and stu­dents. This is exactly what many stu­dents and alumni have been asking for. 
On the gridiron, new vigor has been 
the realization that if people are to be reached, let alone convinced, students must go to them where they're at. Students' political naivete, in other words, started giving way to a truer view of how and why political deci­sions are made in this country. 
—Which may have something to do with the double disillusionment facing many students this fall: they're tired of the clenched fist of ideological radicalism, but see little hope in the closed doors of the American political system. Perhaps more than anything else, this disillusionment is responsible for what is emerging as a disturbing political trait: guilt. People are just beginning to realize that the present state of the union may have something to do with their own failures in polit­ical thou^t and p<riitical action. 
—Which begs the question on every­one's mind this fall: How does a stu­dent transform his political impotence, and to what? As Prof. Jolm Roos has pointed out, the answer is not simply to choose power over truth, to forsake learning for political action. The real answer, rather, lies In the integration of learning and action that is the heart of a man living well with his brothers. 
But there has been little significant leadership provided by anyone at ND in this realm. What's needed is not so much a partisan machine as a cre­ative re^K>nse to the final tension of university life, i.e., students lack po­litical power, but remain leq^onsble for making the polls more true to demonstrated in awesome victories over early-season opponents. If .the season ends as well as it appears it could, the Alumni Board is already on record with a resolution to the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics requesting that a major postseason in­vitation be considered favorably. 
In our Association itself there's an increasing trend toward youth and vigor. Among the 10 nominees for election to five alumni directorships commencing in 1971, two are grad­uates from the 30's, two from the 40's, and six from the SO's — one as recent as 19S9. 
In short, the outlook at Notre Dame is brighter than ever. All 14 of your other directors join me in relaying to you our renewed enthusiasm and pride in Notre Dame and all who help make it great. Now, more than ever, we need to ask ourselves if we are doing everything we can to help keep it great. 
human decency. 
It's a tension that necessitates a careful assessment of what should be done, what can be done, and how. Students might begin by picking up where the Nixon Administration has thus far fallen down. The campaign pledge to "Bring the Country To­gether Again" echoes contemptuously against the walls of divisiveness thrown up by Mr. Agnew. But the pledge needs to be made good by someone. The country will not be turned around without a new unity rooted in an active loyalty not to party hacks but to some measure of ptriitical truth. 
For students, this will mean con­cerning themselves more with com­munication than with preaching, more with stopping the war than with over­throwing the entire military-industrial complex, more with transforming some evil than with feeling guilty about the whole mess. But how? 
A few meager, but perhaps preg­nant possibilities: Home-town news­papers need informed letters about home-town campaigns, the campus needs a voter registration drive for Indiana resident students, local can­didates need students to help register people never registered before. In the long range, public ofikials need the insights of people enjoying the priv­ilege of a reflective life. 
U they want to, in other words, students can make a start at building peace and unity in a society fighting divinvely fm both. 



In gtory 
As a memorial to Notre Dame war 
dead, a new bronze plaque is to be 
placed in Sacred Heart Church on 
the campus. 

The University's graduates have 
served in all of the nation's major 
conflicts ever since the time Rev. 
William Corby CSC gave absolution 
to men about to go into the Battle of 
Gettysburg. That event of the Civil 
War is commemorated by statues of 
Father Corby both on the campus 
and at Gettysburg. 

The war with Spain is memori­
alized in a little-noticed campus 
monument surmounted by an artil­
lery shell. It was erected in honor of 
John Henry Shillington who went 
down with the VS5 Maine in Havana 
Harbor on Feb. 15, 1898. It was do­
nated by those who had lived with 
him in old Brownson Hall. 
Heroes of World War I are hon­
ored in the memorial doorway on the 
east side of Sacred Heart Church. 
The names of 56 of ND's dead are 
inscribed on plaques donated and 
cast by Jules Berchem and Son of 
the American Art Foundry, Chicago, 
in 1925. The plaques were designed 
by Ernest Thome Thompson, then 

evertastittg 
professor of art at ND. 
According to tradition that en­trance was constructed of bricks saved from the raang of a campus building. Initials of students who had gone off to war were said to have been found on some of the bricks. 
The new plaque is being donated by Joseph Hannan, secretary of the Class of '39 and vice-president of the American National Bank and Trust Co., South Bend. 
WhUe a partial list of deceased service men alreaify has been com­piled, it is certain that many more can be added by readers of the ALUMNUS. The Univernty, there­fore, is asking all who have informa­tion on ND students or graduates who died in service, in any war, to please send in the data, before Dec. 1. 
The information should be mailed to the Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
What follows is a preliminary list of those Notre Dame men who died in service to their country: 
Adams, WQliam C, Lt; Adrian, Josqih D., 
Lt; Aimone, Robert L.; AlKniJiani, George 
E.; Andrews, Sherman J., 2nd Lt; Anken­
bnick, James R., Pvt; AnkH, Edward V., 
IS 
In glory 

T/Sgt; Ash, Lawrence P.; Ball, George W., CapL; Barrett, Lawrence A., LL; Barry, Vincent W.; Barton, Walter H., 1st LL; Bassett, James, PvL; Battaile, John T., Ens.; Bebeau, Charles F., A/C; Bemish, Louis J., 1st Lt,; Bereolos, Hercules, Lt. (jg); Birder, James P., Capt.; Birmingham, George G., Pfc; Bishop, John M. J., Lt.; Borer, Harold W., Lt.; Brady, Michael H., 1st LL; Brezas, Michael G., Maj.; Brezenski, William A., Jr. PvL; Britz, Robert C; Brockman, Edward J., A/C; Brogger, James D., S/SgL; Browne, Robert T., LL Og); Burke, John J.; Burke, Kevin G., LL; Butler, Wallace S., Jr.; Byrne, Frank P.; Byrne, Matthew A., A/C. 
Cagney, Joseph P., Pfc; Caley, Robert W., 1st LL; Callaghan, Martin T., Cpl.; Callahan, Robert J., PvL; Cappello, Vilo W., PvL; Carberry, Richard E., CapL; Carillo, Donald S., LL; Carroll, James J.; Carroll, James L., LL; Carroll, Richard J., LL; Carroll, Thomas J.; Carroll, Wells W., LL Cmdr.; Carson, Clarence C; Casey, Edward F., Pfc; Casey, John G., Ens.; Caudill, Henry B., Ens.; Chadwick, Arthur J., LL; Chevigny, John E., LL; Clancy, Ambrose B., Cpl.; Clarke, Edward T., CapL; Clarke, Francis X., Ens.; Coad, Richard J., LL; Colgan, Aquinas T., CapL; Connell, James T., LL; Connelly, Milton E., 1st LL; Conwcll, Joseph J., Jr.; Corum, Robert L., SgL; Cotter, Richard J., LL; Cox, John E., LL; Cragin, Marleau J.; Crane, John L., Jr., 2nd LL; Creevy, Thomas E., 1st LL; Crikelair, John; Cronin, Raymond E., PvL; Cronin, W. Vaughn, Ens.; Curran, Louis F., Jr., PvL; Currie, Donald S.: Curtin, Andries A.; Cusick, Francis M., LL 
Daems, Thomas, CapL; Dalrymple, Thomas, Ens.; Dalton, Edward J., Jr., 2nd LL; Deger, Charles H., LL Og); Delana, Edward K., Jr., LL; De La Vergne, Pierre R., Ens.; DeMarco, Angelo; DeMots, Mark E., Cpl.; Dempsey, George R., CapL; Denny, John, Jr., LL; DeSmeL George W., LL; DiCrocco, Philip P., LL Og); Dimagard, William C., 1st LL; Dimberger, Lawrence, LL; Disser, John W., Cpl.; Dixon, Donald E., LL; Dixon, Patrick M., LL; Dolan, John E., 1st LL; Dold, William F., SgL; Donnell, William K., LL; Dorosh, Theodore J., PvL; Dougherty, Thomas V., LL; Doyle, Edward E., S/SgL; Draper, Thomas J.; Duffy, Kenneth E.; Dunham, Edward J.; Dunn, Robert L., Pfc; Durkin, Thomas F., LL Og)-
Eberhart, George F., Ill, 2nd LL; EllrotL Norbert J., Ens.; Elward, Allen H., Jr., 2nd LL; Fair, William F., SgL; Farley, Daniel P., S/SgL; Farrell, A. Gerald, LL; Farrell, Francis T., CapL; Fensel, Albert J., LL; Ferguson, Homer W., LL; Ferry, Bernard J., LL; Ferry, James J., LL; French, John P., Ens.; Fiffe, Romaine M., SgL; Finn, John F., CapL; Finneran, Robert F., 1st LL; Fischer, Robert A., LL; Fisher, Charles O., CapL; Fitzgerald, David E., Sp/4; Flaherty, Patrick X., LL (Rev.); Florence, William C, LL; Flynn, John R., Col.; Flynn, John V.; Flytin, Robert E.; Foley, Joseph C ; Foley, Roger C, CapL; Foley, William G., Ens.; Fontana, Leo A., PvL; Fordyce, Robert E.; Fox, Richard E., A/C; Fox, Robert E.; Fox, William M., LL; Franzoni, Andrew E.; Freeman, Richard S., CapL; Froehike, Richard P., PvL; Funk, Galand V., Pfc. 
Gallagher, Thomas E., Cpl.; Galvin, Thomas F., Jr., SgL; Gibson, Joseph T., SgL; Gillis, James H., PvL; Ginsburg, Daniel, LL; Golden, Philip E., LL; GranL James P.; Grant, Richard M., SgL; Grauert, Hans H.; Graaer, Floyd C , 2nd LL; Greene, John F.; 
Grobmyer, John C , Maj.; Grumbine, Roy 
J., Ens. 
Hackner, James R., Ens.; Haffner, John C., SgL; Haley, Patrick L., CapL; Haller, William G., 1st LL; Hamilton, George S., S/SgL; Harbert, Philip E., LL; Harrington, Vincent F., Maj.; Hartsock, John R., 2nd LL; Helland, Oliver P., Jr.; Heneault, Maurice G., LL; Hengel, Robert L., LL; Henke, Theodore M., LL; Hennessy, John M., CapL; Henry, Roger H., CapL; Heriihy, Robert G.; Hemon, Andrew T.; Herriges, Leonard J.; Heskett, Bruce W.; Higgins, David B., Pfc; Higgins, William F.; Hille­brand, Leo S., Jr., CapL; Hoch, Lester R., T/Cpl.; Hoffman, Harold V., 2nd LL; Hogan, John H., Ens.; Horton, Hershel G., 
•1st LL; Hughes, John M., LL Cmdr.; Huish, Daryl G., Ens.; Huisking, Frank R., LL 
Jackman, George R., Cpl.; Jasinski, Vin­cent J., LL; Jerawski, Alex C , Jr.; Johnston, Wayne H., Cpl.; Katz, William, LL; Keane, John R., Pfc; Kelley, John J., HI, LL; Kelly, Daniel B., Ens.; Kelly, Fergus F., Ens.; Kelly, John G., LL; Kelly, Omer A., C.P.O.; Kelly, Richard B., 1st LL; Kennedy, David F.; Kennedy, Robert A., S/C; Kles­ling, C. James; Killigrew, Jeremiah J., LL; Killoren, Eugene R., 2nd LL; Kinn, Edward L., LL; Kinsman, John, LL; Kmet, Louis L., SgL; Kneeland, Robert W., 2nd LL; Knus­man, Theodore J., 1st LL; Koness, Walter 1., 2nd LL; Kuntz, William J., P/O. 
LaGrou, John A., LL; Lais, Leo V., LL; LamberL Patrick J., LL; Leach, Edmund L., LL; Lecki, Charles D.; Leising, Joseph F., Maj.; Lemieux, Joseph P.; Leonard, Francis N.; Leonard, Lawrence P., Jr., Pfc; Letscher, Robert J., LL; Lewis, Charles T., 2nd LL; Lewis, Robert S.; Londo, William J., PvL; Love, Gordon A., LL O'g); McCaffery, Hugh F., LL Col.; McCaffery, Joseph P., LL Col.; McCloskey, John J., CapL; McCormick, Michael J.; McDonald, Donald C, 1st LL; McDonald, William B., Jr., Pfc; McElligotL Maurice J., CapL; McFariane, Thomas J.; McGinnis, John J., Cpl.; McGinnis, Martin S., CapL; McGoldrick, James C , S/SgL; McGraih, Arnold J., LL; McHugh, Hugh F., T/5; McJunkin, William J., A/C; McKay, Donald R., LL; McKeon, John J.; McKim, Edward D., LL; McMahon, Oliver K., LL; McManus, Raymond J., Jr., SgL; McNally, Donald B., LL; McQuaid, Thomas J., A/C. 
Mahoney, James P., S/SgL; Maloney, Francis M., SgL;- Mann, Dewey C, Cpl.; Marbach, Paul J., LL; Mariano, Joseph A., Jr., SgL; Marinello, Cario J., Maj.; Marsh, William P., LL; Maschke, Patrick R., SgL; Mason, Quintin, LL; Mathews, Newton, L.; Matson, Joseph A., LL; Matthews, Edwin R.; May, John J., LL; Metcalf, John C , Ens.; Metzgar, Francis E., LL Og); Meyer, Philip R., Jr., LL Og); Michels, Carroll A., LL; Miller, John A., Ens.; Miller, Matthew J., Ens.; Miller, Raymond L., CapL; Milone, Alexander J.; MIynski, James A., Sp/4CI; Morris, Fred L., Maj.; Morrisey, Richard T.; Mulcahey, James L., 1st LL; Mullen, Paul 
A. J., CapL; Murphy, Francis M., SgL; Murphy, George E., LL; Murphy, George J., LL Og); Murphy, John B., LL; Murphy, Patrick E., LL; Murphy, William C , SgL 
Nagle, Paul F., LL Cmdr.; Novak, Richard L., Cpl.; O'Brien, James J., SgL; O'Brien, Joseph A., Pfc; O'Brien, William P., LL; O'Connor, Diser J., SgL; O'Connor, George M., LL; O'Connor, James C, Col.; O'Con­nor, Wayne J., LL; O'Donnell, Charles H., Ens.; O'Neill, Thomas F., PvL; O'Reilly, M. Gordon, Jr., LL Og); O'Rourke, Stephen F., T/5; Osborne, Harry J., Jr., Pfc; OTooIe, Bartholomew D., LL; OToole, Robert J., 
SgL; Owens, George S., LL; Panepinto, Salvatore S.; Pavlicek, James E., Jr., LL; Perry, Robert G., A/S; Petillo, Joseph J., Pfc; Petschel, Howard K., LL; Phelan, Edward H., LL; Fieri, Francis, CapL; Poletto, Eugene A.; Poppen, John, Jr.; Powell, Joseph L., Capt.; Powers, John S., LL; Prendergast, Joseph P., LL; Priester, Henry C , Jr., 2nd LL; Propst, John L., Jr., 2nd LL; Pureell, Paul E., Ens. 
Quinn, James J., CapL; Rambo, Arthur J.; Reynolds, Charles E.; Reynolds, J. William, Cpl.; Rice, Ambrose I., Pfc; Rich, Michael R., LL; Riley, Joseph F., Pfc; Riordan, Robert B., Col.; Roach, John W., Jr., T/SgL; Roche, John L., LL; Rogers, John F., CapL; Roughgarden, Richard J.; Rowan, Edward A., F/O; Ruckelshaus, Thomas F., CapL; Ryan, Robert K., LL; Ryan, Terrence P., Ens.; Ryder, John L., LL 
Schillz, Richard A., Pfc; Schlaycr, Charies R., LL; Schmied, Francis A., Pfc; Schneider, Edwin C, Jr., CapL; Schommer, Cletus N., Maj.; Schoo, Robert E., LL; Schorsch, Robert S., 1st LL; Schreiber, Edward J., LL; Schroeder, Joseph R., CapL; Schultheis, James O., Ens.; Seaman, Anthony J., LL; Seifert, Otto J., LL; Sengon, Thomas J., LL; Sevcik, Jacob P., LL; Shea, John W., Cpl.; Shea, Raymond J., LL; Sheets, James E., F/O; Shields, Joseph M., 1st LL; Shields, Leo W., LL; Shilts, John F.; Simonds, Robert J., LL; Simons, Leonard R., LL; Smith, Arthur C, Sl/c; Smith, Elmore C; Smith, John W., LL; Smith, Lionel V. O., P/O; Smith, Neal D., 1st LL; Smith, Robert G., 2nd LL; Spalding, James R.; Sparks, William C, S/SgL; Spencer, Norbert J., SgL; Sprague, John F., Ens.; Springer, William J., S/2; Stancati, Arthur F., SgL; Stapleton, Charles D., CapL; Stork, Robert J., Jr.; Strang, Archie C , Jr., A/C; Stulb, T. Joseph, CapL; Sugnet, Robert F., CapL; Sullivan, Daniel J., Cpl.; Sullivan, Joseph C; Sullivan, David; Sullivan, Joseph A.; Sweeny, Harold R. 
Vaichulis, Eugene M., LL; VanderHorst, Robert D., LL; Veeneman, James R., LL; Vogel, Harold R., CapL; Von Harz, John T.; Walker, Ignatius B., LL; Wallace, Albert; Walsh, Charles M., M/SgL; Walsh, John E., Jr., Lt.; Walsh, John K., SgL; Walsh, Thomas J., 2nd LL; Ward, Gerald T., Pfc; Ward, Richard L.; Wassell, George C, CapL; Weaver, Douglas C; Weber, George W., LL; Webster, Thomas J., CapL; Welch, Leo F., Jr., 1st LL; Whelan, John J., A/C; Whelan, Joseph W., Maj.; Whelan, Peter L., 1st LL; Wiechman, John H., 2nd LL; Wilders, William J., CapL; Wilk, William A., LL; Wingfield, Ralph G., Ens.; Wilzman, Jerome T., Cpl.; Wolf, George A., Ens.; Wolfe, George M., Cpl.; Wolff, John K., LL; Wood, David O.; WrighL William R., 2nd LL; Wynne, Chester A., Jr.; Yeager, George H., S/SgL and Zupko, Eugene M., Cpl. 
't 
/fj 
"•*/• 
H -^


CLASS NEWS 
'15 REGRETS 
In a note from L. D KEESLAR he 
expressed his regrets for not havuig been 
able to attend the class reumons in June 
on account of unavoidable circumstances 
My son bad planned to provide the 
transportation but other commitments 
developed, to coinade so the tnp to ND 
had to be cancelled. I know that I missed 
a good opportunity so I must look forward 
to another year. I alivays enjoy that old 
luck of getting back to the Campus and to 
relive the many reminders that pop up here 
and there." L. D.still resides at II Hazard 
St, W. Palm Beadi, Fla. 33406. 
Rev. JOHN MARGRAF CSC celebrated the golden anniversary of his ordination on June 27. He was fiist assigned as a teacher and assistant superior to Holy Cross Seminary and he later served as assistant superior at the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary, Washington, and attended Cathoh'c U. Later he taught at ND and was rector of Howard and Sophomore Halls. He spent a short time at St Edward's U., in Austin, Tex., before being assigned to (be University of Portland, Ore. After that he served as pastor in various churches and as hosjrital chaplain. Since 1965 he has lived at Holy Cross House, ND. May God grant him good health and many more years in God's service. It is always a pleasure to hear from WILLARD V. HALLAM. He writes such newsy letters. Of interest to the readers of this column and his classmates at ND will be this account of some of his war experiences. "I entered service in WW I, April 10, 1917 and landed at St Nazaire, France with the 1st Indianhead Division. Ex world heavyweight chaminon. Gene Tunney, went over with us and put on exhibition bouts knocking out the champion heavywei^t of New York State in four rounds. Of course, this was long 
before the two Dempsey-Tunney fights after WW I." He enclosed a postcard, "from Stalheim, Norway, KNUTE ROCKNE's birthplace, which I thought would be of interest As a side note to Rockne, the co-pilot aboard the fatal plane crash was Herman Mathias, a boy I went to school with here in LaJcdand, Fla." The note on the card stated, "This beautiful village is the birthplace of Knute Rockne and X on card marks small monument to him. The village was completely bombed out during WW II and rebuilt The church was partly destroyed and dates from 13th century." .Mso enclosed with Willard's letter was a news story and pictures reprinted from a Sunday paper dated March 13, 1920. One picture shows George. W. Haldeman and Willard V. Hallam Sr. congratulating each other after, setting the world's taiktrin record in the air over a Polk County cow pasture back in 1920. They used an OX-S 
Curtis Jenny, a training i^ane used in 
WW I. The biplane had wing and tail skids 
but no wheels. "More than 8,000 persons 
saw the idane tailspinning toward die 
ground—9,800.feet a record.that still 
stands. George Haldeman flew across the 
Atlantic (in Oct 1927) with Lakeland . 
aviatrix, Ruth Elder. This flight followed Lindbergh's historic fli^t to Paris by five months." 
The July August issue reported the i 
of the death of the mother of JOHN J 
McSHANE 48 John says ha mother was 
taken ill shortly after the first of the year 
and after some weeks m the hospitd she 
was released and spent the remamuig 
period with John and his family until her 
passing on May 17, 1970. The passing of 
both Mrs. McShane and J(HIN J. Sr 
brings back memories of many .pleasant 
visits to their home in Indianapolis, Ind. 
It was recently learned that WILLIAM 
E. FARREN had passed away in August In expression of sorrow, and in proper remembrance, a Mass was said at Notre Dame on Aug. 23. He is survived by fas widow MIS. Wiliiam E. Farren, 1424 33rd St N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007. News also reached me of the death, on 7-13-70, of JOHN B. PICK LL.B. '02 who resided at 342 Ninth Ave., South, West Bend, Wis. 53095. He had attained the age of almost 92 years. He is survived by two sons, John 
M. an attorney, and EDWIN, '03, both of whom reside in West Bend, Wis.'May these souls and the souls of all the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest •­in peace. ­
Albert Akuhee 
LaGrange, III. 

'17 GRANDDAUGHTER WEDS 
Nancy, the granddaughter of BERNARD 
VOLL, was married Aug. 15 to Romulo 
Santi Petrangeli of Rome, Italy, in Sacred .' 
Heart Church on the campus with her 10 
brothers and sisters in the wedding party.' 
This must be a class record. Virginia and 
BILL VOLL, '49 are the parents of 
Nancy, a graduate of St Mary's Academy 
and St Maiy's of the Woods College. 
The "travelingest" couple in our dass ­
must be Maiy and BILL GRADY who left 
the Morris Inn after the alumni reunion 
for Atlanta, Ga., and then swung back ­
along the sea coast to the metiopolitan . 
area of New York, where they made all of 
the big stops and incked up Bill's 90-year-' 
old stepfather for the rest of the trip. Yes, 
they will be back for the football season. 
What Midwest Chairman of SUMMA had his check returned for the Missouri football game and why? He did a good job, too, and is real loyal. : 
If half of our class are too tired to write and the other half is too busy entertaining: grandchildren, why not let the ladies in -: on it? They are in on everything else these • days. So, girls, tell us in 500 words or.. . less, the most amusing incident that i: happened on your honeymoon, and if . ­you request it we will not sign your name v: to th6 letter. This could be good. 
J. PAUL FOGARTY was practicing •. recently on a putting green, when along . came a combination waterspout and baby, ri twister right out of the blucf, and wrecked -. a dozen new cars on an adjoining lot ': '• Never a dull moment in Florida. : '" 
This fluff is being prepared on Aug. 20>— : the old debbn deadline again—but the .. ; Army game will probably be over before -­we can give you a count of the ballots on :. "I surrender" or "Let's keep it going." Have you mailed in your card yet?. •. 
Your dass secretary will hold open 
'^ *. '^'^* '* .. 

hoDse befoie and after tM bome footfadl.;,^. ^ games at h s place, jiot 10 nanotes fnm% . the stadnim on Sondi Bend Ave., abo "^ ^ ^ known as Ind. 23 Free paikiag and tnt-^ color tdemann if you do not have a'^iaoe tKket Pfione 272-8755 MEMO TO ~ , LIFERS ^D o you remendier the big ban­ner across the front of the old fidd hooie .. in the fan of 1909 that read "WESTERN' CHAMPimiS—TRACK AND FOOT-, BALL." Boy, this B the pbce for me, I said to mysdf and stuck it out by book _< and crook for four years of prep school'^ and four years of coOece and received my degree by pared post at the First Officers Traming Camn F t Shendan, VL 
Dan E.Hilgartner 1701 Turtle CrtA Dnve, North South Bend. Ind. 46637 
18 PEACX! Remember "Grand Dad" on his birthday: Nor. 4, JAMES P. LOGAN. FhB. 2951 So. Fillmore WayM)enver,Ccdo.*80205: Nov. 8, - THEfMXNtE C;: RAOEMAKER. BS, 154 W. 6th; St; Peru. Ind. 46970; Nov. 12, GEORGE B.ItEINHARD>i;^'i9. 301 
W. 5Ist St. Kansas CiW: NOT/14; RAY 
C. 'BUTCH* wmPFLE. Law, 373 -Westem Ave., Jcdiet,m. 60435; Nov. 16,' FRANK X.RYDZEWSKI. LLB, 8355 Bmfey Ave., Chicago, m. 60617: Nov. 22. FRANCIS 
A. ANDREWS, LLB, 424 Missouri St. Fairfidd, Calif. 94533; Nov. 23, WILLIAM 
J. ANDRES, EE, 410 Dordiester Rd., Rodiester.N.Y. 14611^ Dec 1, CHARLES W:'BACHMAN. LLB. 11 Sunset Lane, ~ PompanoBeiMdi, Fla. 33062; Dec..?, ROBERT E.1IUBER. EE, 405 West St, Dowagiac, Midt; Dec 10, JAMES L. SWEENY, 12S4 Milwaukee,' Denver. Ccdo. 
•80206.-::^i>-.--;;:---.:..?"T:-:-> :•:.!:•• ' 
'. An of oar true fedings were reverently and sincerdy'eiqiressed for us by ALUMNI Secretary JAMES D. COONEY in his letter to LAMBERT Q. SENG: rWe are 
. deepiy;giieTed,'haviiig learned of the death of your mfcl n etpression of bur sorrow, and in proper'lemembrance, a Mass win be said here at Notre Dame by Rev. Danid 
J. WiUiams CSC oh Sunday, August 23." Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS offered Mass for Marie in his Church in Rantoul, 
;in.;'^:; ^;-''>:\;v:>-.;-'V-.:-- •.'-•-;•.• :: Mi^ty pleased and ddi^ted to. hear from Rev. CHARLES L. DOREMUS CSC '06, may-he live.to be 100 and enjoy 
' every day..Nice to luve a card.firom Ruth CaU: "Thanks for the picture you gave LEN (LE(»fARD M. CALL '69). The other gals are Mrs. Rondietti, Mrs. Lemmer and Mrs.HARBERT.-;Am enjoying Oregon and the cool weather." We know that Ruth enjoyed Crater 'Lake, OrcrAppiedate keeping in'touch with our^ND family '. Great to hear from letired.CouhQr Judge of Grant Orantyfor 16 yeais. GEORGE 
F. FRANTZ LLB '17, .720 8th St. : Fehnimore, Wis. 53809. He wrote: "'Zip' LATHR(MP.'a^ I shared a'room in. Soim ^ SiAway; but do.:notian«hber'wiw^^^ was in our room." If yoii'canfiD-in any of tbeothen^^ ScMih Snbway--iRite' iGeorge. ARTHUR J..BERGMAN. 17—br as we knew;hini-T"YOUNG DUTCH," wrote regarding GEORGE FRAMTZ; be was on 
17 
the freshman team that I played on at ND which included fellows like SHERWOOD DIXON, CY DEGREE, WALTER MILLER, TIM CALLAHAN, JOE RYAN and ARNOLD McINERNY. I also recall him on the varsity squad that included HUGH "FATHER" O'DONALD, CHARLIE BACHMAN, STAN COFALL, FRITZ SLACKFORD, HARRY BAUJAN, MEL ELWARD, JOHN MILLER and, of course, many others. GEORGE E. HARBER, 3521 15th St. CL, Rock Island, lU. 61201, was honored by being presented with the SL Thomas More Award, by the Peoria Diocesan Council of Catholic Men. George had surgery in July and now Is back on his feet and both he and Margaret are well and keep busy. "TEXAS" BILL GRADY '17, reports the 
J. PAUL FOGARTY '17 operation a big success—not like DANNY H., who has had a rough go. PAUL was playing golf with "HUNK," three weeks after his slicing. Can't stop here. Gotta' comment on note from RALPH W. BERGMAN, LLB and learn what joining the 50 yr. Club does for one—follow this—quote:— "evidence of my well being is the purchase of sports model Datsun, rated 125 miles per hour. Heading north—Lake Louise— Banifl and down West Coast along the 
ocean and Redwood Highway." 
BERGMAN is in for one wonderful trip. Start now planning to attend this year's 50 yr. Club reunion and start living to being 100 and enjoying life. PEACE. 
George B. Waage 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60647 
'22 ON THE MOVE JERRY DIXON had two recent operations, and we are very pleased to say that he is doing well, thank the Good Lord. 
We are still getting travel reports indicat­ing that '22 men are nearly always on the move regardless of seasons. We have the FRANK BLOEMERs freshly returned from their trip to and through the Scandi­navian countries. The DAN YOUNGs were touring England, Scotland, and Ireland in August; and in the same month the VINCE HANRAHANs were down on Cape Cod, and the RALPH CORYNs were visiting their married daughter and family in the Toronto area! The JIM JONES' were in the Bristol Hills area of the New York State Finger Lakes Region. 
Did you know that E. JOHN HILKERT of Phoenix, Ariz, is rather plentifully supplied with degrees? He holds four college degrees: a B.S. in B.A., an LL.B., an M.A., and a J.D. Also, John is a C.P.A. The Arizona State Bar Association awarded him a certificate of merit recognizing his 40 years of loyal service as a member of the legal profession in Arizona. FRANK "RANGY" MILES reports he sees TOM "SARGE" OWENS regularly at the K of C meetings in South Bend; also, that he sees VERN PAUL PADEN on the First Fridays of the month. 
FRANCIS OTT of 559 East Providence St., Burbank, Calif, recently reported to your secretary that all is well in the Burbank area at present. While in semi-retirement, he is doing a bit of gold embossing work in a business way. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Road, South Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 PLANS FOR WHOOPDEE­DEE'73 Because of some biuiness at the Library, I was late for a meeting of "23 peoide last June mth EDMUND SHEA, our president in the Morris Inn. As ED KREIMER has already told you, it amounted to an executive committee meeting with JACK NORTON, our greatest living ex-preadent, also there. My opening remarfc was a complaint that Kreimer, an engineer, was making journalists look bad because of his rhetorical excellence in letters and liotcs. 
"That's just fine," he retorted, "because you've just been elected permaiient secretary." 
Of course I hollered foul and stalled for weeks, pleading that my policy was to get out from under jobs rather than taking on new. But, as everybody. Including myself, was fairly sure I would do, I said o.k. So here I am. But the incident does point up that old proverb: Never be the last to arrive or the first to leave. So much for the great moment of history. Now for the future—surely a most trenchant work for people planning a SOth reunion. 
LOUIE BRUGGNER .. . He was indeed our shepherd. In my last talk with him, a few weeks before he left, he dwelt warmly again on the things we had said and done at our 4Sth. He was still hoping to take that trip we had laid out for him. But our Louie was a shepherd to many and It can truly be said that he laid down his life for his sheep. We will never replace him or want to. Let's think of him as still among us and save a chair. You can be sure he's already planning that "Reunion in the Sky" our FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH first mentioned so many years ago at a reunion Mass. 
Ed Kreimer was Louie's close friend and his personal choice to succeed him. He did a very good job when he came off the bench and he is not off the hook. Right now he is bringing our class rolls and addresses up to date. He will be a working Veep, an all-round utility man. 
We did do some planning and talking at the Inn. Here's a digest for now: SOth Reunion . . . Whoopdeedee —^Seventy-Three. 
Well, that may lack some of the dignity supposed to accompany the age of septuagenarians but it will do as a working model. We are planning as of now and every classmate is to consider himself a part of it. Pass on your ideas, bring old pictures and memorabilia. 
The class dinner will be at Morris Inn. 
It seems that the golden age class stUI 
merits applause at Nostra Domina. Rooms 
will be reserved at the Inn; certificates will be awarded at the alumni dinner by TMH; wives are invited. Whoopdeedee 
Seventy-Three. Regional Representatives .. . 
Red, the prez, will be appointing a national 
committee before long. It will Include 
regional reps in charge of regional flocks 
and long time no-see strays. Young and 
healthy people Uke DANNY CULHANE, JOE (Whiriaway) DONALDSON, Col. 
FRANK DORIOT, HARRY (our latest bridegroom) FLANNERY and others wfll 
devote some of their excess energies to 
the task. This system, and all of the above 
people, worked very well In our program 
which honored Louie at the 4Sth. 
Which brings to mind: Why not OUR man of the half-century? I have a candi­date and I'm sure he will also be yours. 
WIVES . . . Those glorious martyrs are officially welcomed to the golden class reunion by the University, with a special program arranged. Wives at a reunion? Heck yes. My wife has been coming for years and claims she gets her best rest of the year amid (but not among) the raging wolves. 
Beyond that, we intend to make the 
wives working members of our class from 
here on in. Louie often wrote of their 
Interest, especially those who had been left 
alone. Wives are the letter-writers and 
secretaries of the families. So I am hereby 
appointing every class wife an assistant 
secretary and hope thereby to solve the 
problem class secretaries wail about: news 
for class notes. TeU me of the retirement 
plans, travel plans, vacation spots, hobbies, 
etc. I know one fellow who claims retire­
ment was no problem because he "never 
liked to work from the first day I had to 
go to work." 
Football Game Reunions . . . Many classes hold informal reunions during game weekends. We hope to do this. For a starter: As a member of the Library Council I will rate a room at the Inn on the Georgia Tech weekend. So dew drop Inn—and well put you to work. After all, the mark of a good executive is to arrange things so he can play a lot of golf . . . So ladies and gentlemen, keep them cards and letters coming. 
Francis Wallace 
4615 Guernsey St. 
Bellaire, Ohio 43906 
'24 NOMINATIONS SOUGHT If any classmates have sent letters or notes to this secretary and have looked in vain for the recognition In the ALUMNUS, it could be the result of creeping loss of memory as we get older; or it could even be due to the disorganization of retirement. Possibly you will have reached the same condition and would not be sure if you mailed a letter or just thought you did. 
What prompted the preamble to these notes Is the presence in my desk of an empty envelope with the return address of JAMES J. GLYNN, 157 - 4th Ave., St. Petersburg Beach, Fla. 33706. I cannot find any recognition In later issues of the ALUMNUS. Sometimes the editor will cut out an item or two if I go beyond the allotment of space. It seems to me that I sent the contents of Jim's note to the editor hoping to have it added to my already sub­mitted notes. I make this general confession so that others also will know some of the pitfalls of a class secretary. Class notes are not strictly news Items. For example, this Is being written on SepL 7, rushing to meet a deadline of Sept 14. What date are you reading It? 
Recently I received a blank form from the Alumni office asking for the names and addresses of the class officers ... . Presi­dent, vice president, etc. How about that! It might be interesting to have an election by man ballot Will anyone take it on? Some of the old campus activists (a term we didn't use in those days) would care to work at i t I'm sure it would be fun, and could be the spark that would weld some class cohesion for us. How about it JIM SWIFT, GENE MA'iX, LES FOLEY, TIM MURPHY, EARLE HURLEY, or any one of a dozen others. Let's go with some nominations from the floor. We'll publish them. 

Earle Hurley wrote me a very nice note 
recently. Woidd you head up a campaign 
to get us an active class president, Earle? 
Get brother Jim to help you. You fellows 
have probably kept in touch with class­
mates better than most of us. 
Our ranks keep diminishing. We are sorry 
to learn of the death of RAYMOND F. 
KOHIN Ph.B.'24—died May 27—father of 
Roger P. '53. A Mass was said at Notre 
Dame on Sunday, Aug. 23. Mrs. Kohin 
resides at 8037 Park Lane, Bethesda, Md. 
20014. We speak for all his classmates in 
expressing our sympathy to his family in 
this column. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 SW Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 PIONEER ON TV Through the courtesy of JIM DURCAN, Class Secretary of '24, I received a news item that Federal Judge JOHN F. KILKENNY was on the Columbia Prep's reunion program. He was one of their '19 graduates. JOHN A. BARTLEY sent a news item from the N.Y. Times, before the reunion which couldn't be used because of priority news, concerned DICK FUITE's wife. She was one of the world's first stewardesses 40 years ago. The same morning this appeared in the Times, she was on the "Today" Show. Dick is a retired manu­facturer's agent and lives in Rancho Bernardo section of San Diego. The Alumni office sent word of the death of JOHN KANE'S wife Margaret on June 
23. Our deepest sympathy to John and his family. 
TOM COMAN sent a thoughtful letter telling how much he enjoyed our 45th reunion. In part he said, "I went away from N.D. feeling that I had enjoyed the reunion immensely, enjoyed seeing again familiar faces, although I admitted often I was hard put to remember names. So many of our classmates, the survivors, looked well enough to hold on for another 45 years, and if God willing, Mrs. Coman and I will be back in five years. I enjoyed seeing the likes of MAURY BOLAND from Fort Wayne but was disappointed that ED POLHAUS did not make it Recalled that BILL MOORE '26, who lives in Alexandria asked about the Hurleys. Let me say again that I enjoyed talking with you and I always enjoy and appreciate your work on the '25 Class Column." 
Thanks TOM and it was great hearing from you—we will all look forward to our 50th. 
John P. Huriey 2085 Brookdale Road 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'26 WHAT ELSE? JERRY REIDY, 3416 W. 71st Place, Chicago, 111. 60629, writes: 
"It took WALTER B. TROHAN and his generous donation of books to break the 1926 freeze. In the class news of the ALUMNUS the year of 1926 had not seen the light of day in two years. 
"So, in the interest of '26 may one ask, 'What else is new?'" 
J. N. Gelson Gelson & Lowell, Inc. 441 Lexington Ave. New York, N.Y. 10017 
'27 TWO DIE In the same mail a few weeks ago, I received word of the deaths of two class­mates, WILLIAM FENNELL and HAROLD (DINGER) MC CABE. BILL FENNELL, who was an A.B. graduate, resided in Geneva, New York, at the time of his death, which was also his home while he was at Notre Dame. "DINGER" McCABE wiU be remem­bered as a fullback under Coach Rockne. We all remember that he was a law gradu­ate but he had conducted an insurance adjustment business in Rockford, 111., for many years. Masses are being said at the request of the class for both classmates and we should all remember them in our prayers. For the third successive year arrange­ments have been made for monthly Masses to be said at Notre Dame for the repose of the souls of all our classmates who have passed away since graduation. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
111 W. Downer Place 
Aurora, lU. 60504 
'28 STILL 17 BACHELORS 
ART CANTY advised me of the death of 
JOE DALEY on June 24, 1970 following 
a long cancer illness in Los Angeles. Joe 
operated a printing business with his son 
there. He is survived by his wife, a son 
and a daughter, and seven grandchildren. 
BOB EVANS died on June 30, 1970 following a series of strokes during the past year. Bob was vice-president of the Mississippi Lumber Co. in Vicksburg, Miss. He is survived by his wife, a son and daughter, and seven grandchildren. I believe Bob was the youngest member of our class, with a birth date of Aug. 19, 1908. Bob kept in touch with me over the years and was very much interested in the class and in ND. He was buried from the church where he was baptized and married. 
ED J. BRENNAN has our sympathy on the death of his wife, Evelyn, on Sept 4, 1970 after a long illness. Ed has been married for 12 years. He is the director of central services for Cook County. I visited the funeral home. 
It is great to be able to again report a marriage. EDWARD J. McGAULEY married Lucille Hickey in South Bend on June 18, 1969. They met at the Southern Califomia-ND game while on a tour of the coast Ed is now "de-retired" and working in the butcher shop at ND and living at 320 E. Howard St in South Bend, where the welcome mat is out to classmates. Ed attended the Cotton Bowl game. I hope to hear of other marriages from the 17 bachelors in the Class. 
Speaking of bachelors, we had dinner with TOM BOV and his girl friend recently. Tom was on vacation from the M.S. Esso Little Rock oil tanker, where he has been chief engineer for over 30 years. He will retire in March. Tom had just returned from Japan where he was on vacation. He was on his way to Ohio to celebrate his mother's 100th birthday. I believe Tom has visited more countries than any classmate. 
Add the following to the retirement list: RALPH NOLAN, who was president of the Connor Investment Co. in Joplin. Mo., plans to spend the winter months in Pompano Beach, Fla.; and CHARLES SCHLEGEL who has moved to Inkster, Mich. ED McCLARNON has "re-retired" and has moved to 8123 Dimibarton Road, Lakewood, NJ. 08701. JOE BREIG wrote 
that he was looking fonrard to attending 
a retirement lundieon on Oct 1 for TOM 
BYRNE who has been with the Ohio Bell 
Telephone in Ctevdand for more than 
40 years. 
I was sony to hear that WALTER J. 
KENNEDY, iriu received his LLB with us 
in 1928, was permanently disabled as the 
result of a car accident in 1966. Please 
write to him at 5331 Hi^dand Ave., Kansas 
City, Mo. 64110. The sister who provides 
nursing care to Walter said a little note can 
sometimes bring much joy. 
Congratulations to Judge ROBERT 
GRANT on his dection to the presidency 
of the Tri-VaOey Councfl, Boy Scouts of 
America, at South Bend. GEORGE 
SCHEUER is one of the executive board 
members. 
Judge BILL JONES called on his way 
home after attending a meeting of the 
American Bar Assn's Council of Judicial 
Administration in St Louis. I noticed a 
picture of Bill in a Wastungton paper in 
July on the occasion of his issuing a 
restraining order involving the selection of 
a school superintendent in the District of 
Columbia. 
JIM ALLAN and BILL DWYER at­
tended the ordination of a Jesuit son of 
BOB VOGLEWEDE, '29. 
Father JIM McSHANE tells me he wrote 
BOB HAMILTON and obtained prompt 
help in getting delivery of a film by air. 
Fr. Jim mentioned that he remembers '28 
men in hb Mass each day. VINCE 
CARNEY wrote from Mexico on his 19th 
visit there. 
I talked by idione to my old roommate, 
DENNY DALY, who was planning on 
returning to his law office in St Paul after 
a long illness. I was ideased to meet BILL 
KEARNEY in the Loop recently and to 
find he has recovered from his heart attack 
and is back to his law practice in Chicago. 
JOE MORRISSEY reports tiiat he stop­ped in Bellaire, Ohio, to see JOHN NIEMIEC, who is retired and living under the expert care of his sister. Joe also met JOHN POLISKY in SteubenviUe. 
JOHN ANTUS and AL TAYLOR are still with the U.S. Customs Court in New York City. AH three of John Antus' boys are now in service, one in Vietnam, another a medic in Okinawa, and the third at an Army camp in South Carolina. 
I hope you make good use of the class roster sent to you in August by writing to classmates and visiting them on your trips. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd. 
Chicago, m. 60626 
19 LAST VISTT 
You have had your last visit with GENE 
MILLIFF BSEE '29. His wife, Magdalene, writes, ".. . Gene died suddenly on June 10 
of a heart attack. We had been downtown on business in the morning and I let him 
off at the apartment around I pjn. I went 
on to take care of some errands. He 
apparently went up to the apartment and 
then walked over to the Sheraton-Holiday 
Inn for hinch where he collapsed in the lobby. The news reached me about 2. p.in. but he was dead by the time I reached the hospital. (Son) Jim has been in Saigon for 
alnnst a year .. . he was home within 
two days . . . (dau^ter) Marilyn and her husband were traveling Florida and we 
were able to reach them in time . . . Gene 
and I had planned to leave on the I3th for 
our summer home on Pelu Island, Canada 

. . . Gene always looked forward to all the 
reunions. He enjoyed them so much. . . ." 
And we enjoyed knowing Gene. He had 

many friends who share your loss. We too, 
will miss him. He was good to many. Those 
who, with me, shared a reunion banquet 
table on June 7, 1969 recall among other 
topics of conversation that of taking pills. 
Only two at the table denied taking them 
regularly. We knew that he was retired 
early from Ohio Bell for health reasons 
and that he was faithfully following the 
orders of his doctor. We were confident 
that he was much improved and that he 

would be with us in 74. We will remember 
Gene. Magdalene's address is 3167 Linden 
Rd. No. 303, Rocky River, Ohio. 

PAT O'LEARY learned of Gene's death and wrote . . . "Gene and I had quite a chat at the reunion last year. Both of us were retired from Ohio Bell and both for reasons of health. It's a funny world, both of us had worked for the same company but we hadn't seen each other since gradu­ation. Once, when I was arranging the toll multiple layout in the Sandusky office I met him on the circuit At the time he was doing some work at the toll test desk. We held a bit of a 'conference' at the time but that was the only time I'd talked with him until last summer. He was in Cleveland and I was everywhere but there. We will miss him. May his soul rest in peace." 
We have, by way of the alumni office, word of the August 30, 1970 death of EDWARD G. BARCH BSME '29. We, for his classmates and personally, express our sympathy and remembrance in prayer to his wife whose address is 6135 Wasingo Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio. I shared the class­room and dorm with him and know that he belonged to Our Lady and her Son. Similarly, we must transmit news of the July 23, 1970 death of JOHN F. MITIGUY AB '29, brother of ARTHUR A. '28. John's wife resides at 177 Crescent Road, Burlington, Vt. We forward our regrets and sincere sympathy to his family. We will include their intentions in our prayers. 
Your secretary humbly requests that this column be wired for sound. The impact of the privilege of a surprise visit with STEVE DURBIN (the kid from "Loovil" Ky.) since 1951 a (Dallas) Texan, a partner in Texas Distributing Inc., and with Alice, his wife loses 90 per cent in repeating and 9 per cent in putting on paper. The scene was last evening (mid-September) in their room in the Morris Inn. Pat O'Brien the son of Steve's cousin is registered at ND where he is a member of the Glee Club but Steve is en route to Cambridge, Mass. and Cape Cod for an "Intensive Course in Noise and Vibration Control," presented by sound specialists Bolt, Beranek and Newman. Steve confessed that for the first few weeks as an ND freshman he had trouble understanding the eastern accent of algebra Prof. RAY SCHUBMEHL (who is still teaching); he had never heard anyone in Kentucky talk "lak" that, and the "jdear" of going to Boston bothered him just a little. Steve confessed further that REV. THOMAS (POP) STEINER CSC was more effective at "stop the music" than Bert Parks ever thought of being ... . that the ND of REV. JOHN M. (TUFFY) RYAN CSC was a dam good place . . . that after a few faltering academic weeks at this place in his sophomore year some­thing happened to him. He gained a con­
fidence and momentum that have never failed him . . . that he still admired the 

blackboard artistry of ROCCO D. PERONE and his skill at nick-of-time erasure . . . that his mother recently deceased was like Steve, a hoarder . . . that for this reason 43-year-oId snapshots and conunentaries thereon CAPARO, DEBAENE, GALDI­BINI, GREER, MARTERSTECK, METRAILER, O'LEARY and ACHUTTY were household words to Alice (who was on the ND campus for the first time) . . . that about three years after graduation he visited the Main Building and for the first time walked down the front steps when someone approaching from behind de­manded "Steve Durbin, what are you doing here?" It was FATHER JOHN O'HARA . . . that this was his fourth return to the campus, the first since 1954 . . . that his absence in 1969 was most reluctant . . . that he idans to make the next reunion. 
Steve was with General Electric from 1929 to 1951, mostly in air conditioning. His firm is distributor for their equipment. He and Alice were married in 1934. Their son Steve is well along on a two-year military assignment, presently in Anchorage, Alaska. Previously Steve Jr. earned an 

A. B. and M. S. in Business Administration. One daughter lives in Dallas where she is assistant principal of a Catholic grade school having 700 students. The other daughter lives in Sacramento, Calif. She is married and mother of two adopted children. 
Larry Stauder 
Engineering Bldg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 


'30 MEMORY LINGERS ON 
DICK DONOGHUE wrote rccenUy about his activities in California': "Sorry to have missed the 40th Reunion this past June, as well as the 1929-30 Football Team Reunion last fall. We are moving from San Diego to Arcadia, Calif, on September 1; I have worked in Los Angeles for four years, commuting on weekends to home. My father, almost 90 years of age, died on February 23 in Auburn, N.Y. 'CHUCK' BOHRMAN and GEORGE SHANNON were pallbearers. Mother is alive and lives at home yet Great Notre Dame parents! (Brothers) BERNARD '32 and FRANCIS '33 and our sister, Rita, were there. While I get back East a few times each year, I am not able to get to ND on schedule. (I have yet to see a football game in the ND Stadium as a spectator; our team dedicated it.) Father Lou Thornton writes to report a change of duties this fall. I am sure he will be much in evidence as the team limbers up this fall. Word from South Bend, via travelers, is that the team looked 
good against the 'Old Timers' in the 
spring game. I hope to be in the stands at 
the USC-ND confrontation. I am fine, educating three (3) young men and keeping the home fires burning." 
BO RICHARDS, the legal-eagle from Kansas City, has some past reunion com­ments: "Our class reunion has come and gone very quickly and is now a pleasant memory! I wish I were able to describe in words how grand it was to be at the reunion. It was so refreshing to be in familiar surroundings and seeing familiar faces once again. My only regret is that I was late in arriving which prevented me from visiting longer with our classmates. Since we are not getting any younger, I would like to recommend for consideration 
that we try to make our class reunion an 
annual affair from here on. I bad intended 
to suggest it at our class dinner if I had 
gotten to the reunion in time. Perhaps you 
may want to pass it on for consideration." 
We are sorry to have to report the deaths 
of two members of the 1930 class: TIM 
HINCHEY (April 9, 1970), and JOSEPH 
B. REEDY (June, 1964). They and their families should be remembered in prayers by the Ciass. Fr. JIM RIZER wrote a card recently expressing his enjoyment of the reunion weekend. He is back and busy at his pastor's duties at St Elizabeth's Church in Richmond, Va. ED ELLS­WORTH sent a note about his reunion experiences: "Must say the 40th Class Reunion was a huge success as far as I am concerned. My only complaint was that my time on the campus was too short. Thought I would make the scene Wednesday or Thursday but never did anive till noon on Friday. Stopped off to visit with BILL DUNLEVY and wife in Hudson, Ohio, and Bill wasn't feeling up to par so we were delayed there. It was great seeing all the 'ole familiar spots and viewing all the new developments on the campus. It had been 10 years since I set foot on the campus so you can see I had twenty to catch up on. The best part was seeing the 'ole class­mates and having a few old bull sessions. Nothing like it for making one nostalgic." 
DOUG DALEY called to say he is coining out for the Army game, and he and his son, a senior in high school, are coming in to talk about entering next September. BOB COONEY promised us some reunion photos for the ALUMNUS, but he probably found them so good he will deal with Life magazine for a big spread. The only communications from our president-elect, TIM TOOMEY, are a couple of vacation cards. I had been expecting something bigger such as a State of the Union message. I will probably see many of you here for the fall games. 
Devere T. Plunkett 
137 O'Shaughnessy Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


'31 NUMBER 40 COMING UP 
Our FORTIETH REUNION is next June and it has brought forth letters from long lost classmates. FRED SWINT, Nashville, Tenn., plans on attending and as I recall, this will be his first campus reunion. He is secretary-treasurer of Mid-State Steel, Inc. His wife is on the road to recovery after several hospital visits the past few years. Their children are married and I believe the Swints are grandparents of four. Word was received from the Alumni Office of the deaths of two classmates: GEORGE J. McNALLY, RockviUe, Md., and DANIEL 
D. HALPIN, Montclair, NJ. Our deepest sympathy and prayers go to their families. JOHN A. HOYT, Jr., '33 attended Dan's funeral and wrote me a few days ago, telling of Dan's life and things unknown to many classmates. Dan was a television pioneer and manager of Knute Rockne's last team. He was active in Serra Club sponsoring religious vocations for many years. Dan also had been working on a memorial plaque for those of his parish who entered the religious life, and this was recently dedicated by James A. McNulty, Bishop of Buffalo, who returned to Mont­clair for the occasion. The funeral Mass of the resurrection was sung by the Dominican Sisters, of which Dan's daughter Anne, is 

a member. The National Alumni Directory was recently published by the Rockwell F. Clancy Co., Chicago, 111. There were many omissions probably due to lack of response or first directory publication problems. Our class had a fair representation and I hope it will be better in the next directory. I had a note from Marie McQUAlD sending some reunion pictures taken in 1966. She is still active at Vincennes U. and sends best wishes to those who were always so kind to her and JIM on their various campus visits. BERT METZGER was in California last April to visit his daughter and while there spent some time with MARTY BRILL who has been ill for some time. Bert recently talked to NORDY HOFFMAN in Baltimore where Marty recently underwent a serious hip operation. My mention of DICK O'DONNELL brought forth a most interesting letter from him. He has been with the office of the governor, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands for about five years as a public relations man, writing speeches, news releases, official statements, as well as entertaining celebrities and VIP's from all over the world. Dick is a widower with six grandchildren and three children of his own and was able to make the change without too much trouble. He has been in contact with DICK O'TOOLE and BILL MAGARRALL back home and runs into other ND men on planes and trains in his travels. GEORGE MURPHY from Mexico City was in St. Thomas on a cruise with his family, but Dick was unable to contact him. Dick is definitely planning on the 1971 reunion. Thank you Dick, for your news and I shall look forward to seeing you next June. The Alumni Office should soon be mailing a new 1931 class roster. Please use it to write old roommates and campus friends to generate strong attendance at our FORTIETH REUNION. Please send me a card or letter on your June 1971 plans so I can mention it in our class column. Please remember our deceased classmates in your prayers. Best wishes to all. 
James T. Doyle 1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, 111. 60201 
'32 PRISONER OF NO NEWS 
Somehow, as I sit at my typewriter, poised to punish the keys with hot news from you guys, I'm reminded of a poem I knew years ago from "The Prisoner of Chillon." It goes, "My hair is grey but not with years, nor grew it white in a single night." My hair was a healthy brown (a touch of grey) when I became "class secretary" at our 35th Reunion. (JIM COLLINS, I hear you laughing.) Now I am pure white, a mere three years later. And, my classmates did it to me. I don't have a shred of notable news to tell you. 
Sadly, I report the passing of DANIEL 
F. PFLAUM, M.S. '32, Ph.D. '34, who died July 29. A Mass for the repose of his soul was celebrated on campus Sept. 6. 
Changes of address are good as fillers: JOHN F. CAVAN has moved from Ohio to 352 S. River St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 18702. MANSEL W. MILLER has left (fled?) Indiana for 350 N. SilverbeU Rd., Tucson, Ariz. 8S70S. BADEN POWELL, again on the move, is now at 701 W. Jefferson, Creston, Iowa 50801. 
One parting remark. I recall that having one's picture on the cover of Time Magazine usually spelled bad luck. Would you believe that last month I had a letter from TIM HUGHES, managing editor of ALUMNUS saying in part that I wrote a good column "full of life"—^"keep up the good work." Sorry about that, Tim. Maybe better next issue. 
Florence J. McCarthy 
6 River Road 
Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 WEDDING REMINISCENCES 
REV. JAMES DONNELLY officiated on July 18th at the wedding of the daughter of JAMES P. ROSS. The Ross family resides at Freeport, Long Island, New York. Fr. Jim then spent a week with the Conleys and also visited the homes and families of WALT RIDLEY '31, BART JOHNSON '48, ALFRED "Josh" D'AMORA '35, ADRIAN "Joe" WACKERMAN '35 and JOSEPH H. MULQUEEN '40. 
While drinking low calorie beer and reminiscing about the class of '33, Fr. Jim and I recalled that although there were more than 1300 who entered Notre Dame in September of '29, only a few over 450 were graduated in .Tune '33. Almost a thousand men were casualties of the old ND discipline and the Great Depression. In our initial freshman semester, the drop­outs began with the "Howdy Hop" and were accelerated by the market slump in November. Every desk was filled in Brownson and Carroll in the beginning but, even with off-campus moving on, the Halls were half empty by the end of the school year. Some of the big rooms in old Fresh­man Hall dwindled to singles and only gilded Howard Hall was busting out all over. Class numbers continued to decline as the depression's severity hit countrywide. The present '33 class roster does not contain many of our old friends who are certainly eligible to be listed. I have approximately 530 names on my list, which is fairly up to date as I get the notices of change of address and death. We have "red shirts" from earlier classes but we also lost some to later classes. If there are any classmates in your area who were students with us at ND but are not members of the Alumni Assoc, please get them to sign up with the Alumni office. As we grow older it is important that our friends from 1929 and through the Thirties, remain in our nostalgic memories. No group but a tough bunch like ours could have lived through such an era. 
On July 28, and on the other days he was with us, we took Fr. Jim to our parish church, St. Denis, where he offered Mass for our classmates, particularly the sick and dying. At my request he read aloud the names and among the names was that of RAY BRANCHEAU. After Father returned to Texas, JACK HOYT sent me an obituary from The New York Times which told of the death of Ray on July 28. I hope that God answered our prayers and gave Ray the grace of a happy death. 
Ray was a friend of mine since our enrollment in '29. He played great varsity football in '31, '32, and '33. Later he coached and was athletic director at Western New Mexico U., Silver City, N.M. He attended our 35th reunion in '68 and gave us all pleasure as he humorously recalled the good old days. I believe this was the only reunion he ever attended. Ray was a Christian gentleman and a splendid example to hold before our sons and grand­sons as they go forth to face a decadent world. 
JACK SOISSON, who is from Rockville 
Centre, N.Y. wrote to tdl me that he 
probably won't attend any home games 
this year but hopes to be at the Navy-ND 
game on Oct 31. His son win enroll at 
Villanova U. this fan. That fine school is 
only a mile or so from my home, Jack, so 
please stop by. 
In answer to several requests, Kitty 
Gorman's address is: THOMAS A. GOR­
MAN, 1419 W. Daytona Dr., Peoria, m. 
61614. His old hi^ school in Chicago, St 
Philip's, just closed. 
TIM TOOMEY '30 just letumed from a 
long visit to Ireland loaded with gifts 
including a beautiful tweed suit for himself 
to wear to the ND-Navy game on Oct 31. 
Tim said his class had a most successftd 
40th reunion last June. 
BILL CAMPBELL, president of the NY 
Subway alumni, sends a postcard to teU his 
friends that he win be on the trips spon­
sored by the ND Fans of Phila. to the 
Army and to the S. Cal games. BiU has 
been watching ND-Army games siiKe they 
played at West Point. 
Had a caU from BOB COONEY '30, formerly of Chicago and now of the Navy Department in Washington. Bob says he'U attend the Navy game in Phila. I thanked him for the exceOent color photos he took of our 3Sth reunion. 1 also talked to JOHN GORMAN '50 who is staying at the Inn in Cherry HiU, NJ., and is doing some franchising work in the Delaware Valley. 
My good friend, BART JCKINSON '48, has purchased the General Wayne lim, 625 Montgomery Pike, Merion, Pa. If you will be in Philadelphia for the Navy game, caU 
(215) 664-5125 to make reservations for an excellent diimer. 
STEVE BANAS, on a round-the-world tour, sends a postcard from Hong Kong. 
Among the letters forwarded to Fr. Jim during his stay with us, was an invitation from RAYMOND J. NABER of Louisville, Ky. to attend the wedding of his daughter. 
As the news is in short supfdy for this issue, 111 close with an Irish saying sent to me by WALTER O'KEEFE '20: "Live in my heart and pay no rent!" 
Charles A. Coidey 
100 E. TurnbuU Ave. 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 LOOKING GREAT Saw BOB CAHILL at the Chicago au b golf outing. He looked great Flayed 18 holes of golf at the Elidiurst Country Qub. MOOSE KRAUSE was not there for this one. Had a caU from JACK HAGAN of Canfield, Ohio. He wanted Fr. JIM MOSCOWs address. He had a good-sized check to send on for Masses. Fr. Jim can use it all His new church is under way. Jack told me of the death of GEORGE P. MALONEY JR. George resided in Canton, Ohio. JOE CLARK wrote from Pittsburgh to teU me he is going back to Ireland in September. 
Forgot to mention in my last colunm that RAY BRODERICK, RepubUcan candidate for governor of Peimsylvania, graduated from Notre Dame in 1935. TOM BYRNE JR. of Hiiladelphia is trying to help him. 1 hear that we have a ND man serving as mayor of Pittsburgh, Fa. Happy to read that LARRY CNEIL is active with the Northeast New York Club in Albany. RAY TROY wrote from St Louis. He attended the American Bar convention. Ray 
KS-"-"' 

Congrats 
Promoted recently to president of Associated Baby Services, Inc., was OTTO E. SCHERER '38. The corporation, headquartered in New York, includes diaper services from New York to California. Linen service, marketing of disposable products and publication of prenatal and infant-care information also are included. 
PHILIP E. PRICKETT '46 is the new Catholic Charities director of Development for the 10-county Milwaukee Archdiocese. He was appointed by Archbishop William E. Cousins. Prlckett, who recently resigned as director of corporate support for Marquette U., is the first layman in the archdiocesan post. 
EDMUND V. MARSHALL '46 is now executive vice-president of United Aircraft Corp.'s Hamilton Standard Division in Windsor Locks, Conn. He received an MA in aeronautical engineering from Purdue U. in 1947 and Is a member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the American Astronautlcal Society. 
RICHARD W. FOUNTAIN '47 has joined the Alrco Temescal Division of the Air Reduction Co., as a vice-president. He will be located at the division's headquarters in Berkeley, Calif. In the new position he is In charge of evaporated products activities. 
J. ROBERT LACKEY '48 is now director of the Comprehensive Health Planning Agency in the New Jersey State Department of Health. He holds an MS in Public Health from the U. of North Carolina and has been health officer of East Orange since 1962. 
JOSEPH M. SCHEIDLER '50 is serving as assistant director of public information for the Chicago Department of Human Resources. The department serves youth, senior citizens, juveniles in trouble with the law and families having difficulties finding jobs and housing. Scheldler taught in the ND department of communication arts from 1959 to 1962. 
ran into JIM SHIELS in St Louis. Ray 
reports that Jim now runs the half mile in 
seven minutes. Ray said that he had a date 
with JOHN HOBAN for D & D (Drinks 
and Dinner) while in St Louis. 
LES JANDOLI sent on a note mentioning 
the passing of JIM PAGAN and CLINT 
WINTER. This is the first report to reach 
me of Clint's death. F. Clinton Winter Jr. 
livfcd in Newark, NJ. ROBERT M. 
MONAHAN died in November of 19(69. 
Bob lived at 2623 N. Van Dom St, 
Alexandria, Va. He was with I.N.S. and 
U.P.I. 
The Alumni Assoc, wrote last week. They 
wanted to know the names of the president, 
vice-president, secretary and treasurer of 
our class. I only know of a secretary. The 
class of 1928 does have elected officers and 
members pay dues each year. LOUIS F. 
BUCKLEY is their secretary and has 
handled the job for 42 years. 
My daughter, Renee, is back at Loretto 
Heights College in Denver. Renee is enter­
ing her junior year and is taking Special 
Education. My son, Eddie, is a freshman 
at Immaculate Conception High School in 
Elmhurst, 111. He is trying out for the 
freshman football team. 
Happy to hear IRV KIEP and JACK 
QUIRK took their families to a picnic for 
Fr. Moscow's parish. 
Edward M. Moran 
2501 N. Central Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60639 
^5 NEVER ON SUNDAY 
I am writing this column on Sept 13, just 
after Matty Alou muffed a punt on the 
30-yard line, and the Cubs capitalized with 
a safety in the next few minutes— 
remember, you Pirate fans? 
All of which reminds me that the ND schedule starts next Saturday, and by the time you receive this issue they will have played at least two and possibly three games. The way in which the Cubs won the game brings to mind the ND teams of old —they used to pull the game out of the fire in the final seconds against tough opponents. If by now you are asking your­self what the above has to do with the Qass of '35 cdumn, it is simply this—^my maU has been practically nil since July, and I was told by our new president that I had to write a column for each issue, even if I talked about the weather! Tomorrow is the deadline for the next issue, and if it isn't in the Alumni Office before midnight, all 27 of my faithfid readers will be dis­appointed when the next issue comes out! Believe me, they are tou ^ at that Alumni Office—if the column is not in the editor's office on schedule—^no column! 
I was disappointed in the lack of am­munition I received after sending a self-addressed envelope to all reunionites in mid-July, exhorting you fellows to fill me in. Only a few responded: The first letter came from our new president ED VAN HUISSELING, with the good tidings that Fr. JIM CORRIGAN has agreed to con­tinue as class chaidain—and without pay, yet! Fr. Jim couldn't make it in June because he was "kicked upstairs" at the last minute as special assistant to the presi­dent of Marquette U. If his title and corresponding duties in connection with all phases of luiversity relations are similar in religious life to the business world—^well. Father Jim, watch out! Sounds like a possible eariy retirement for you—or an assignment as a "consultant" Seriously, 

Fr. Jim, congratulations from all the class. 
We missed you in June. JOHN COR­
RIGAN, Fr. Jim's twin, lives in Crystal 
Lake, 111., has twin daughters (natch) in 
their second year of college, and as Van 
puts it in his letter "one yoimger one." 
Your guess is as good as mine as to what 
that means, so how about exidaining it, 
John, in person in South Bend during the 
football season? 
JIM JENNINGS, ED VAN HUISSEL­
ING, and TOM WELCH sent me brief 
notes with some pictures of certain re­
unionites. However, it wasn't possible to 
include them in the last ALUMNUS due 
to the tight publication time schedule and, 
furthermore, after seeing the snaps, I felt 
it would be inadvisable anyway, since the 
subjects also must have been in the same 
condition as the aforementioned publication 
schedule! I received a thank-you note from 
RAYMOND J. BRODERICK for sending 
a '35 Oass Roster to one of his rooters. 
As you know, Ray is in the market for the 
governorship of Pa. I think the reason for 
the roster was to invite all the '35ers 
around the coimtry to move to Pa. before 
the election, and cast their votes for Ray. 
I think it is a good idea, and the least we 
can do for him, since we should have at 
least one governor out of our class after 
35 years! (We did have one President— 
remember?—Franklin D.) Seriously, Ray, 
all South Benders are pulling for you, and 
I trust the same is true of all your '35 
constituents in Pa. Also received some nice 
comments about the reunion from JOE 
OTT, Bro. FERGUS (BILL) BURNS CSC, and Bro. THADDEUS GOTTEMOLLER CSC. 
I promised Ed Van Huisseling I would again plug the Southern Cal game on Nov. 
28. All who are planning to go should arrange their own transportation. (If by plane, please be sure to use glass or plastic containers—not metal!) And also arrange your own accommodations. Headquarters is the Biltmore in L.A., and Ed suggests you plan to arrive on Thanksgiving Day, if possible, and I suggest that you stay over until Monday or later, if you think it advisable under the circumstances. 
I just heard that ROBERT E. LEE died on Sept. 3 and want to express the sym­pathy of the class to his widow and family. A class Mass was offered for him by Fr. Corrigan, our chaplain. 
As a finale to the 27 faithful readers of this column. If you woidd really like to have some news of classmates instead of the drivel I wrote above, let's hear from you! Better still, if you are coming to any of the games this season, give me a call, and let your presence be known. 
W. F. Ryan 1620 E. Washington South Bend, Ind. 46617 
'37 SAVED BY SCHWARTZ 
AL SCHWARTZ saved the column this 
timereporting on HARRY MARR from Higham, Mass., who is with Healthways, an equipment manufacturer. Then on to PINKY CARROLL leaving Salina and 
Marymount to recruit for St. Thomas College. Pinky will bereturning to the 
East Coast, so we will have to brace for the invasion. Pres. PARKER SULLIVAN had a couple of bouts with surgery, plus a heart condition and now is on the road to recovery. In fact, he was exposed on Channel 2 news in the East explaining the General Telephone advertising campaign 
on the West Coast Parker looked cood with the makeup on. Hope PAUL FOLEYs agency has the account BOBBY SIEGFRIED met up with Al to review the next reunion and they hope to provide more cannon fodder for the set?. Look for Siegfried's name to pop up one of these days for recognition, well deserved. DICK DELANEY of Iowa and Al keep in touch with a mutual hardware accoimt He sells hammers to crack Delaney's cookies. Young John Schwartz finished medical school in the Philippines and was also educated in the island affairs by our MIKE BRIAS, iriio really fathered the boy around. John reports that Mike does an excellent job represent­ing '37 in the extracurricidar activities. TTiey didn't meet up with TONY BAYOT. Tough part of Al's report is that his son FRED '68, member of Peace Corps in Africa, was killed in an auto accident in January. Please remember him in your prayers. 
LEN TOSE made the picture news as owner of the Philadelphia Ea^es pondering the idayer problem. Also from Phila. is the report that Ray Broderick '35 is running for governor. GERRY ZEILLER, in real estate in Lebanon, NJI., after completing service with the V.A., late Sen. Bridges, the assistant to Sen. Dodd, went back to N.H. to work with Sen. Cotton and in '69 retired from Government service with 27 years and is now in the land develop­ment business and I hope as successful as TOM WHITE. If ND ever i^ays Dart­mouth we have a place for hdq. 
A late item brought to our attention was 
the death of JUSTIN McCANN of New 
York, in December 1969. Our sympathy to 
his family and remembrance in prayers. 
Follow the Schwartz examine and keep 
the Secretary informed. 
Joe Quinn 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape Andover, NJ. 07821 
'38 CHILLICOTHE'S FOXIEST WILLIAM "BILL" NOLAN, Chillicothe, Ohio's finest Ford dealer deserved first mention because he called me a second time, after missing me the first to bring me up to date. Bill, who roomed with FRANK DELANEY, now Iowa's Nabisco cooky king, has never made a reunion but has been to South Bend many times, to see his uncle ARTHUR HALEY and hopes to make our next reunion. Bill served four years in the Navy and has been Ford dealer ever since, and also has a 1500-acre farm where he raises registered Polled Herefords. Bill's brother JCHIN was ND '42. 
My Utah trip to the National Legislative Conference over Labor Day which I an­nounced in the last issue brou^t me only one invitation to stop—besides one from a traffic cop—from DON L. SMITH who is Colorado Springs' traffic engineer. Had I time I might have detoured to take in their ND club picnic Aug. 30, but I didn't 
JOE CALLAHAN wrote he made it to California after stopping here with wife and son and was about to descend on NEVIN "BUNNY" McCORMICK. Hope he made it. Former South Bend mayor JACK SCOTT, now Lafayette's (Ind.) publisher and raconteur said he got a thank you from Fr. JOE RACE for his best wishes for Father Joe's 25th anniver­sary celebration. Jack said Joe mentioned the following classmates as attending the festivities: CHUCK SWEENEY, JOE ZWERS, Dr. DENNY EMANUEL. ANDY PUPLIS, PAUL KELL '39, DAN SUI/­LIVAN. BILL nORAS, JOE THESING '39. LEN SKOGLUND and Fr. JACK ANTCm. 
My wife Hdene and I win be in Europe (and Jordan?) in October on a CFJtif. trip agaiiL Please have mail awaiting us when we return. Swede the Scribe 
Buinett C. Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend. Ind. 46625 
'39 OOGOaS 
The dass cupboard, recently restocked, and 
while admittedly not a gourmet's delist 
whets the jaded appetite. 
A card from Karachi, West Pakistan, but mailed from Frankfurt Germany, teHs us that JOE HARRINGTON visited both, and attended Mass "at a CSC church" in Karachi He also managed to see a "wee bit o'Eire" along the way. Surreptitiously we have learned that JOHN (SPKE) SIEGEL advanced to the post of managing editor of Meadvitte Tribune, MeadviOe, Pa. Congrats, JOHN . . . now how about a bit of your expertise for the column? (llianks, BILL OTOOLE). 
Two more of our classmates have been called to their eternalreward. According to word received at the Alumni Office, CHARLES C(HXJAN passed away on June 
24. Chariie made many contributions to our class history, and will be remembered too for his "Domt?" recognition in our junior year. He leaves a widow, Elizabeth, and two sons, Charles and William. From an Aug. 20 letter from BOB KVATSAK, we learned of JGBH GUTOWSKI's death on Aug. 16: "Very briefly, Joe, after reimion last year John imderwent open-heart surgery and from an indications things went along all ri^t He was back working and leading a fairiy normal life under the drcumstances. He went to early Mass Simday as was his custom, and later in the morning he told Irene he was going up to rest .. . he died peacefully in hb sleep .. . he was loved and respected by his community." John leaves a widow, Irene, a daughter Karen, and sons Leonard, RICHARD Z. '68, and DAVID T. -70. Truly, these men lived in the finest tradi­tions of Our Lady's Umversity, and in proper remembrance, a Mass has been offered for each of them. In behalf of their classmates, our sympathies to the families with the assurance they win be remembered in our prayers. 
'39's Irish Rovers are to be found at these new spots: LAWRENCE BENE­DICT. 225 E. 36th St. New York, N.Y. 10016; CHARLES REDDY, 1906 Kessler Blvd.. South Bend. Ind. 46616; THOMAS 
A. SULLIVAN. P.O. Box 1297. Stamford, Conn. 06904; ARTHUR J. VERHOESTRA, Patlynn, Apt 4, Fairfaope, Ala. 36532; and JOHN F. WEILER, 6103 Aiqile VaOey Lane. Rte. 4. Houston. Texas 77040. 
For you 'mbo win accept the cbaUenge to prove the written word versus rumor, some future deadlines for this colunm are Oct 26 (mailing date of this issue), Jan. 
11. March 1. and April 26. You win be read. I promise, so let's get with it and in today's vernacular. "DO YOUR THING." 
Joseph E. Hannan 1804 Greenwood Dr. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
•40 FRONT PAGE In spite of the lack of correspondence from all of you who insisted that you were going to help with this column, we have managed to accumulate some information about the men of '40. DICK DILLON received front­page recognition from St. Mary's College during the summer when it was announced that Dick is general chairman of the Chicago phase of "Program for the Seventies," a major fund-raising drive for SMC. Dick has been a lifelong resident of the Chicago area and an active attorney since 1946. The one bit of correspondence received from CHUBBY GILLILAND, who, by the way, is but a shadow of his former self, did not contain much news; but held forth the promise of active efforts to correct the situation. He did send an interesting photo taken at reunion with WILLIS WALKER, BILL KELLEHER, GERRY SAEGERT, AL KESSING and JOE HART along with Chubby all displaying the "objets d' art" they acquired for some reason during reunion activities. During the memorial Mass in June we prayed for all men of '40 both present and absent with a special remembrance for the next one to leave our midst. Everyone in our class expresses their sympathy and condolences to the family of JAMES J. CASPER of LouisviUe, Ky. Jim came to ND from Louisville in 1936 and died July 11, 1970. Our prayers are with you and your loved ones, Jim. 
Do hope that TOM LLOYD gets in touch with either the Alumni Office or me as we do not have a current address for Tom, yet I do recall he wrote JIM DONOGHUE explaining his inability to make the reunion. Expect to see FRED (BUD) ROBERTSHAW and his wife, Helen Wise of SMC, very soon and expect to have reports about some of our Southern Ohio friends including WALT WUEBOLD. One of these days I will stop in Sidney, CHiio, and have a visit with Dr. JOHN KERRIGAN. Just prior to reunion Bro. LAURIEN LaFOREST CSC wrote and I apologize for the delay in reporting his news. Brother is director of studies for the Eastern Province of Brothers and living in West Haven, Conn. He reports that Bro. ALBERTUS SMITH CSC is the supervisor of education for the Eastern Province and that Bro. ETIENNE COOPER CSC is an instructor at Holy Cross High School in 
Flushing, N.Y. Fr. BILL TOBIN SP wanted to make the reunion, but was recently appointed provincial of the Servants of the Holy Paraclete Order and stationed in Jemes Springs, N.M. In ad­dition to the many new time consuming responsibilities it was a mighty long haul for the new chief of the order. We all look forward to seeing you in *75, Bill, when you will have "time to plan," as you say. Made a date with HANK ENGEL to visit him and Sally at the SMC party after the Army game. Expect to see JERRY O'DOWD and many others at the same affair. 
Although the Dayton mail delivery is not as good as in South Bend, I am sure your notes and letters will reach me if you will just sit down and write this very moment 
Robert G. Sanford 1568 Beaver Ridge Dr. Apartment B. Dayton, Ohio 45429 
'43 THE FBI 
Thanks to FBI Agent OLLIE HUNTER, 
115 W. Northview Ave., New Castle, Pa. 
16105, we can report the following: 
FRANK CONFORTI is being transferred 
from Rhode Island to Chicago, 111. (Send 
us your new address, Frankie). TONY 
MALONEY's son, Anthony III, was cited 
for heroism with the U. S. Army in 
Vietnam. TONY is with the FBI in San 
Diego, Calif. JACK GILLIGAN, Ohio's 
No. I Democrat, is in the finals in that 
state's political race and should be the 
next governor. DON HELTZH, Warren, 
Ohio, has a son in his senior year at ND, 
and Atty. HANS O. HELLAND's eldest 
son entered as a freshman this fall. JIM 
FENNELL, back from Japan, advises that 
his son, Tom, hopes to continue his 
outstanding track accomplishments in 
college this fall. Jim is now in Westfield, 
N. J., not far from the offices of Atty. NICK VILLAROSA, Montclair, N. J. Last he heard, JIM BYRNE was stiU plywooding in Birmingham, Mich, and was a neighbor to Akron's own RALPH VINCIGUERRA. BLAIR McGOWAN, McGowan Electric Supply, Inc., Jackson, Mich., according to Hunter, must be the "Class of '43's Big Daddy" with 12 children. What do you say, BILL MIDDENDORF? CONFORTI, GREG RICE (Louis Marx Toy Co., NYC), and OLLIE were shocked to learn of the death of ELVIN "DOC" HANDY, their former track coach. Hunter lost an opportunity to be a "ND Father" when young OUie reported to the U. S. Military Academy at West Point as a new cadet on July 1, 1970. 
Thanks to Insurance Tycoon FRED GORE, 111 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, 111. 60604, we can report the following: Their daughter Maureen is a senior at St. Mary's this year. The Gores' son, Andrew, is a sophomore at ND. Fred proposes that a section of the ALUMNUS be set aside to publish the names of students classified by the year of the parent's graduation. Fred also suggests that we have an informal football game reunion for '43ers. What are your ideas and suggestions? Thanks to JOHN L. BRESLIN for updating informa­tion in the ND. National Alumni Directory. Since March, 1970, John has been associ­ated with Blue Cross Hospital Service, Inc., in the position at 1430 Olive St., St Louis, Mo. 63103. John recently moved to 10218 Maebem Terrace, St. Louis, Mo. 63127, and this puts him in closer touch with the very active ND Club of St. Louis. 
The Alumni Office reports that MARK 
J. LIES, 99 Forest Ave., Riverside, 111. 60546, has been elected vice president and controller of Hart Schaffner & Marx. Your secretary was in Ottawa, 111. 61350 recently and called on the DICK SCHWARZBACHs, 2218 Spencer Place, and the BOB SINONs, 8 Oaklane. Dick is engaged in the building supply business, and Bob is a partner in the law firm of White & Sinon. 

Same secretary was on campus recently deUvering freshman son, Pat, to 419 Grace and sophomore son, Mike, to 402 Grace. Have your sons and dau^ters check with them for the current happenings in Chatsworth. Had a brief visit with the GENE FEHLIGs, who were moving freshman son, Eric, into 317 Grace, and the AL MASTERS, who were moving freshman son, Jim, into 540 Grace. AI is assistant treasurer of Alpha Food Service Corp., 1208 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry St. 
Chatsworth, lU. 60921 
'44 ONE LETTER 
Unfortunately this will be a rather short 
column. The columns will continue to be 
brief until the time comes when the several 
hundred members of the Class of '44 show 
some interest and cooperation by writing 
the secretary. If you remember, there 
was no '44 nevis in the previous issue of 
the ALUMNUS. Since June 1, only one 
letter has been received. As it was stated 
previously, this is your column, your news. 
Evidently members of the Class of '44 are 
not very news-worthy individuals. 

It is with much regret and sadness to report the sudden death in summer of feUow classmate MIKE MALLOY. At the time of his death he was V-P of the Associated Aviation Underwriters in New York City and lived with his wife and four children, the oldest boy an ND graduate, in nearby Jackson Heights. Let us add his name to the ever-growing litany of departed '44ers. WILLIAM BOSS, Deerfield, 111., V-P of the marketing division of Sylvania Entertainment Products, has been elected chairman of the Consumer Products Division of the Electronics Industries Assn. JOE GALL, New Hampshire's gift to ND, has been hexed once again. Prior to the 25th reunion, the Alumni office compiled a list of class members and showed him as Joe Fall. Previously youis truly had him moved to New Mexico. Now, when the new ND Directory arrived, his name was omitted completely. If there ever was a true, a loyal son of ND, it is Joe Gall. He reported on the delightful summer he and his family had and now is looking forward to a trip to the campus for the ND-Pitt. game and also a visit with one of his sons who is a sophomore there. Joe mentioned that he had had a telephone visit with FARRELL QUINLAN's wife who told him that both Farrell and their son had been hospitalized this summer. The MURPHYs-BLACK JOHN and Ag decided to forego their annual visit with the Quinlans at Indian Cave Lodge. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
Post Office Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'46 25tii COMING UP Please note! 1971 will mark the 25th Anniversary of the great Class of '46. How about starting now to make plans to attend what I hope to be one tremendous affair come next June. If memory serves me correct officers of the Class of *46 are: President—EDWARD MIESZKOWSKI Vice President—THOMAS BURNS Treasurer—HARRY SURKAMP, Record­ing Secretary—NICK COMMISA. By the way, if anyone needs further information regarding the reunion I would suggest they contact one of the above officers, the Alumni Office or myself. 
Ed Mieszkowski dropped me a nice long letter to tell me he recently revisited the campus with his nephew from San Diego, Calif., and had a most enjoyable time. He said the memories that were brought back were just fantastic. I'm sure the same will be true for those who plan to return in "71. To have more to report for the next issue a brief note from you classmates will be helpful. A few minutes of your time to write a brief message about what you're doing or about your family shouldn't be too unbearable. Hope you all had a happy and restful vacation. 
From the Alumni Office 
EDWARD V. MARSHALL has been 
named executive vice-president of the 
Hamilton Standard Division of United Air­
craft Corp. Hamilton Standard is located 
in Windsor Locks, Conn. Marshall was 
program manager for space flight vehicles 
at Ling-Temco-Vought Inc., before joining 
Hamilton Standard in 1963. 
THOMAS E. WARD has been selected 

to attend the U.S. Steel Corporation's 
manager development program beginning 
in Morgantown, Va. He is press relations 
manager for U.S. Steel in Chicago and a 
frequent guest lecturer on business topics 
at college campuses. 
Peter P. Richiski 
6 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
'47 NEWS NEEDED 
Thank you for the opportunity to 

represent the class of '47 in the ALUMNUS. 
With the hopes of generating some interest 
among the members of the class in view of 
our 25th reunion only two years away. We 
will welcome any information regarding 
members and their families. Let's get the 
ball rolling! Best to you all. 
James J. Shea 
35 Liberty Terrace 
Ashley, Pa. 18706 
'48 WHO BELONGS? 
By way of the Alumni Office we hear that 
JIM MURTAGH has been promoted from 
vice-president to president of the Gerity-
Schultz Corp., Adrian, Mich. Jim has been 
with this company for the past 12 years. 
ED AYLWARD writes that he is looking 
forward to seeing ND play Missouri at 
Columbia this year as it is the first time 
an ND football team has played in 
Missouri in 40 years. 
JOE WILCOX writes that based on the hate mail he received after a recent letter to the ALUMNUS, he feels that his obituary would be more welcome to some if not all alumni, but instead wants it known that he entered in matrimony on Aug. 7 to Claire Grace Lentz of Albion, Mich. Joe in his colorful way adds that he was married by a bearded Franciscan and that he acquired three stepsons and a stepdog in the deal, along with a wonderful girl. This is all the exciting news we have for now. We need something to start the next issue. 
In looking over the latest copy of the ALUMNUS, reading about the recent class reunions especially, I wonder if you feel like 1 do that you seem to know more people in the other classes than you may know in your own. The class of 1948 was a mixture of many original classes due to the war years and many members of this class returned in late 1946 to resume their education. They were originally supposed to be in perhaps the class of '44, '45, '46 but ended up in '48 while some of the original classmates graduated on schedule or even on a stepped up basis due to the accelerated program at the time. Some of our class may still feel they are part of that original class and 1948 was just their graduation date. The class of '48 was the largest class in that era and it was probably 
Toast of the town 
Arthur M. Diamond JD'47, a South 
Bend attorney, gave an impromptu 
speech soon after his graduation 
which eventually led to his election 
as president of Toastmasters Inter­
national 23 years later. 
To get acquainted with the organization. Diamond went to lunch with an insurance agent from a neighboring office and was invited to talk. He responded and has been active in Toastmasters ever since. 
Elected president at the annual business meeting, Aug. 11 in Portland, Ore., he becomes chairman of the executive committee and presiding officer at directors' meetings for the next year. He expects to travel the equivalent distance of once around the world to visit with Toastmasters and with civic and social leaders. 
Diamond is enthusiastic about the training and practice that participa­tion in Toastmasters activities can give young lawyers, teachers, clergy­
ARTHUR M. DIAMOND '47, president of Toastmasters International, at left, presents a plague with which that organization honored President Nixon as a public speaker. Accepting the tribute in behalf of the President is Herbert Klein, White House communications director. The presentation was made last June in Washington. 
men and businessmen. He noted that some politicians got their start through Toastmasters. 
Membership generally leads to a variety of civic responsibilities, he said. A member of the law firm of Diamond and Miller, he is a director on the board of the Community Corp. for Educational Review and has been a delegate to the Indiana State Republican Convention. He serves as appeals adviser for his selective service board and is a member of the county, state and national bar associations. 
For many years he has been a merit badge counselor of the Boy Scouts of America, a member of the Broadway Theatre League and of the South Bend Coin Club. He is a former member of the South Bend Jaycees. 
Diamond's family iiKludes his wife, Dagny, and their three sons, Arthur, 17, David, 15 and Eric, 12. 
the most consolidated. I know that when I get mail or information about someone in the class whose name I cannot match up with a face, I get out the 1948 DOME and try to recall that person. Many times I find that the person isn't even shown in the graduating class as shown in the DOME. This is probably someone who was scheduled for 1948 but was either advanced or delayed as far as graduation but still feels he is part of the class of '48. I am only mentioning these things because maybe some guys don't know where they belong or prefer to be where they are not as far as class dates are concerned. So, anyone who has anything to contribute to the Class of 1948 column is welcome and we also extend an invitation to our 25th Reunion in June 1973 so we can all get acquainted again. 
George J. Keenan 
177 Rolling HiUs Rd. 
CUfton, NJ. 07013 
'49 MIRACLES 
I just reread the Gospel story that treats of 
the multiplication of the loaves and iishes. 
That's my kind of miracle. I have enough 
material here for one obit or two short 
want ads . . . and no "drag" at all with 
the big man upstairs, no kidding! You 
guys simply have to send me some material. 
Here we go on a two-inch "column." 
One of our classmates continues to 
distinguish himself in his never-ending 
pursuit of knowledge. I refer to ROBERT 
UHL of 1830 \V. Sunset Ave. in Decatur, 
III. Bob received his A.B. with us in '49, got his LL.B. from ND in '50 and just this past July 2 was graduated from the 
U.S. Army War College instruction course at Carlisle Barracks, Pa. This is certainly a partial explanation of why Bob carries the rank of colonel in the Army Reserves. While you're reading this, please take a moment out and whisper a prayer for the family of George H. McCarthy, the father of GEORGE H. MCCARTHY JR. George Sr. died March 17, 1970 and has been remembered in special Masses celebrated on campus by Fr. Joseph Fey. I have received from the Alumni Office several notices of address changes. One in particular caught my eye: RAYMOND M. BELDEN has moved from 1609 Mohawk St to J554 St. Vincent St. in Utica, N.Y. 13501. Why does this have impact on me? Ray is responsible for whatever tennis skills yet remain in this 48-year-old body of mine. Ray and 1 had many, many tennis sessions—matches they were not! (He always won.) Exhibitions? Could be. Fun? Definitely! I'll have to follow up on this new information and pay Ray a visit I'd bet he still can rush that net with authority. 
It hurts me to say this, but this is the sum total of everything I have in that folder marked "Notre Dame Alumni News." Next column, I'm afraid, will consist of Chinese proverbs and some delicious recipes . . . unless . . . unless you tell me whom you met on campus when we pounded Purdue . . . and routed Army. Let's go, Irish! 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'51 PLEATED PLANKS 
Just heard of the death of LESLIE LOGAN on June 17. Our sympathy to 
his widow, Mary Joanne, and children, 
who live in F t Wayne at 2202 Lawndale 
Drive. The children are Dennis, James, 
Peter, Maiy Cecelia, and Katie, from 19 to 
8 years old. Please remember the family 
in your prayers. 
TOM KIGIN, formerly a peddler of 
corrugated board, attended an executive 
seminar at Harvard for one week in August, 
and returned a purveyor of pleated plank. 
Tom had dinner with BILL HUBBERT and 
his wife, Joan, who live at 239 Great Plains 
Ave., Needham, Mass. 02192. Tom said 
Bill is a turkey broker, whereas we thought 
the wave of Irish immigration had ceased. 
Congratulations to Tom on being named 
V-P and Gen. Mgr. of Acorn Corrugated 
Box in Chicago; he is also still on the 
executive committee of the Fiber Box Assn. 
TOM CARROLL, with Jane and the seven 
children has moved back to our area at 
1209 Timber Dr., Sleepy Hollow, Dundee, 
III. 60118. Free drinks are offered to any classmate who stops in for a visit Congrats to Tom on his promotion; Master Machine was associated with American Gage and Machine in a merger last winter. Tom signed up for Reunion '71, and offered another second for BILL WHITESIDE as leader. Additional congratulations to RAY SCHAFFER, named Personnel Manager for Weyerhaeuser Co., White Pigeon, Mich. 
Thanks to BILL BREIDENBACH, who forwarded the second reunion door prize. It is a life-size cardboard reproduction of the Lonesome Gal, which BOl took to bed as he tuned in at 10:45 to listen to her dulcet tones. Additional prizes are solicited. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 S. Michigan Avenue Chicago, III. 60604 
'52 MODERN COWBOY 
From Pinetop, Ariz., Mrs. JOE PAUL SUMMERS BROWN writes that her husband, Joe, has just published his first novel, Jim Kane. It was released in February by Dial Press and is the story of a modem cowboy in Arizona and Mexico. Joe has bought cattle in Mexico for many years and knows the people and country of the Sierra Madre intimately. Joe is now completing his second novel. The Outfit, also to be published by Dial Press. He and his wife, Jo, have two children 14 and 
16. She is a graduate of Stanford, '54. 
JOE ADAMS writes from Gary, Ind. that his daughter, Terri, is starting at Purdue 
U. in September. AJ. currently holds an associate professorship in computer tech­nology at Purdue's Calumet campus. He combines teaching and consultant work to keep busy. He has a couple of boys whom he hopes to send to ND, Joey, 3, and David, 11. Joe isn't deserting the St Mary's-ND plan, but like us all, he likes to take advantage of saving a buck. Joe should be good for ND-Purdue tickets any time you need them. JOHN P. BLADEL and his recent bride, Dianne, just completed a belated honeymoon, round-trip from Jacksonville, Fla. to Lake Tahoe, Calif. Their honeymoon included a trip to John's brother-in-law, ROY WALTER in Lima, Ohio. John and Dianne are both teachers at Jacksonville Junior College in good old sunny Florida. 
CHARLEY PAQUETTE writes from Providence, R.I. that he is expected to transfer to River Beach, Fla. this faU. He is working for Pratt & Whitney but spends most of his time with his wife, Jean, raising their eight kids—six giris sand­wiched in between 2 boys. AUGUSTINE 
E. GURRALI and FRED PUGLIANO '53 former roommates had a reunion of the Mafia in Springfield, Mass., along with their wives after being out of touch for 18 years. Augie is an engineering manager, on-continent test division. Las Vegas, Nev. with Holmes & Narver, Inc. Fred is an architect in Springfield. The westerners, with their Vegas influences, wore out the conservative New Englanders. ROBERT WRAY is leaving his Canterbury school in New Milford, Conn, to become lay head­master of the Villa Duchesne Girls' Day School in St Louis, Mo. Bob received his master's degree also at ND, served four years in the Navy, retiring as a lieutenant. He and his three children will be heading for St. Louis this fall. It will be unusual experience for Bob, since he will be replacing a nun as head of the school. In addition, a lay board is being formed to assist in the operation of the school. Best of luck Bob in your new undertaking. 
Got a note from LOUIE GLEASON, who is living it up at the Sahara Hotel in Las Vegas. Louie is spending money like a drunken sailor while checking into all the gambling devices that he can bring back to Peabody, Mass. This kid really knows how to live. 
BiUKing 613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'53 SAD PASSINGS 
It is with extreme sadness that I report the passing of JAMES PATTERSON "PAT' DREW on Sept. 3 in Washington, 
D.C. Following his ND graduation, he was inducted into the service and was stationed upon the European continent Following his two years, he attended Columbia Law School and thereafter, until 1962, he was employed in a Wall Street law firm. In 1962 he moved to Washington and joined a "financial arm" of the State Department and traveled throughout the world. In 1966 he re­entered the practice of law and, according to the information we have, he had practiced law since 1966. He leaves a widow, Elizabeth, who is the Washington editor of the Atlantic Monthly. Our sym­pathies to Elizabeth and also Pat's two brothers. Rev. John J. of New York and Dr. Lawrence of San Francisco. I also noted from the September issue of the ALUMNUS that the father of HANK MASSMAN also passed away. Hank's father was a 1928 graduate and many of us had the opportunity to meet him as a result of the contemporaneous schedules of the class reunions. Our sympathies to Hank and his family upon their great loss. The appropriate remembrances from the class Mass fund have been made. I also anticipate asking Father Ernie Bartell to offer Mass for all of our deceased members and deceased family members each and every year, on or about the first of the year. 
BOB NIQUETTE of Manitowoc, Wis., writes that he is still enjoying the afterglows of the 1968 reunion while operating a consumer steel company, in conjunction with his brother (ND '47) which is devoted to fabricating ferrous and nonferrous sheet metal as well as some structural fabrication. He also reports 

he is busily engaged in school board activities in his native Manitowoc. He and his wife have four children, with the eldest a sophomore in high school and the youngest in kindergarten. 
ROLAND GRABEL reports that he is operating his own business in the field of deferred compensation, estate planning and related efforts to frustrate the taxing authorities of both Federal and State origin. He reports good health and acquaintanceship with some of our class in and about the Chicago area. Received a very long and informative letter from DR. TED GARLAND who is pracUcing medicine in Springboro, Ohio, in conjunction with seven other osteopathic physicians. He lives on a farm with his family of many children, having married Miss Pat Miller of South Bend. Some of you "Yacht Clubbers" may remember Joe Miller who taught us business law and accounting while maintaining his account­ing practice in South Bend. Pat is Joe's younger sister. Ted also reports that he believes DlCiC GILL is in Huntington, Ind. He would also be interested in hearing something from J. F. FLYNN. He saw C. J. EDELEN in Louisville about a year ago. CJ. is practicing law and running a Cadillac agency there in Louis­ville. Fill in the details, Dick Gill. . . . JIM BRITT is still in the Dayton area but Ted has not been able to get together with him for some time. PAUL FRY, M.D., in response to our inquiry about the science majors, indicated that he is practicing orthopedic surgery in South Lake Tahoe, Calif., and has been for the piist two years. Paul indicated he has been married for IS years and has five boys and a girl. He is interested in finding out what happened to DICK O'CONNELL, who he believes was also a pre-med student. There is a tacit invita­tion for the class to visit him in South 
Lake Tahoe. 
The response to my unabashed plea for letters, cards or prepaid telephone calls has gone practically unheeded and conse­quently, this column is sparse. At the outset of this adventure in journalism, I sug­gested to you all that I would stay with it as long as the information was being provided. Are you all going to let this embryonic Westbrook Pegler fold up his typewriter and pass into the oblivion where our class column has been reposing for practically 17 years? Get on the ball and get the information to me. 
As a footnote, you may be interested in knowing that BILL WUETCHER, JOHN OTOOLE, BILL MAUS, GEORGE FARRELL and BUD KETTLES (Class of '54) anticipate joining ED McCARTHY, FR. BARTELL, TOM McKEON (Class of '54) and others for the Georgia Tech game on Nov. 14. I am certain you people will tire of the very limited scope of my acquaintanceships as the basis of this column and once again, I renew my request for information. 
John T. Mulvihill 645 First Bank BIdg. South Bend, Indiana 46601 
'54 EMPTY BARREL Your response (none) to my humble (gad) requests for an occasional letter makes it simple to write these short articles. Of course, if I weren't so humble, I coidd fill in space vrith the exploits of the men's slow pitch Softball team I'm on which has 
now won 16 in a row for a 2S-6 overall 
record. Any other among you who haven't 
hung them up yet? Drop me a line. 
DICK LYON has been appointed a 
director of the Humble Oil and Refining 
Co.'s Esso research labs in Baton Rouge, 
La. Dick, if he bets wisely, ought to 
make a fortune on the ND-LSU game this 
fall. Dick's also invited all his classmates 
to an open house after the 1971 LSU-ND 
game at Baton Rouge. Br. CHARLES 
KRUPP is the first elected provincial 
superior of the Midwest Province of the 
Brothers of Holy Cross. JOHN 
FINNERTY 318 Vine Ave., Park Ridge, 
111., has been promoted to second vice-
president, operating dept.. Continental 
Bank, Chicago. Lt. Col. FRANK WALTER 
(it's great to have you home) graduated 
from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle 
Barracks, Pa. on June 15. He had 
previously been CO. of the 8th Engr. 
Battalion 1st Cavalry Div. in Vietnam. 
Your prayers are requested for Harry 
Reynolds, the father of our classmate 
BILL REYNOLDS, who died in May of 
this year. 
YATES HAFNER is resuming his duties 
as associate dean of the faculty, teaching 
English literature at Antioch College. He 
spent the first half of 1970 in London 
doing research on renaissance humanism. 
The Hafners had their third child in June. 
Wrapping up some old info—^NICK 
KRALL is professor of physics at U. of 
Maryland and has written the best seller 
"Collision Free Shock Waves in Plasma." 
Last year he was made a fellow of the 
American Physical Society. MARTY 
VIETH is athletic director and head 
football coach at Cardinal Stritch H.S. in 
Oregon, Ohio, a Toledo suburb. Marty 
and his bride Barbara have 4 children 
(three boys and a girl) the oldest a 
sophomore in high school this year. JOE 
STUEVER is still hanging out in Oklahoma 
City. The Stuevers have three girls and 
happily, at last, one boy. 
The only recent mail I've received was from TONY PERRY who owns and is president of Marycrest Development Co. in Kankakee, III. The Perrys have three girls and two boys now. 
That completely empties the barrel—until I next hear from you, yes you! 
Milton Beaudine 
21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
E. St. Louis, 111. 62203 
'55 WHAT HAPPENED? 
We haven't played "What ever happened 
to?" for a long time, but it's apparent that 
we have lost track of a lot of the guys. 
At reunion we failed to come up with 
current information on the following: PETE 
ABT, TOM BRENNAN, FRANK BUSBEE, DEL CHESKY, MIKE DAKIN, WARREN GIDDENS, GEORGE HALKIAS, KAMAL HOSSAIN, BOB KERBY, WALT LANGFORD, JOHN LOCHT, GENE MARQUETTE, CHUCK MEARS, JOHN MURPHY, TOM O'HARA, DICK PADON, AL PAJAK, TOM QUINN, DICK SHERIDAN, JOHN STUMP, CARL TESCHEMACHER, BILL WALSH, BILL WEBB, BOB WHIPPO, and FRANK WHITE. Drop me a line if you have any info on these fellows (or even if you don't!). 
NEAL HALLORAN ran into one of our "lost souls," GEORGE VAN BESIEN, while on vacation in Annapolis, Md. A successful architect, George has nxtre hair 
than Joe Willie Namatb, according to 
Neal. Neal also checked in with LARRY 
BUCKLEY, who is getting used to living 
away from the Florida sim. DAVE 
CCmEN has joined Mayor Daley's staff 
(would you believe?) in the ofSce of the 
Asst. to the Mayor for Manpower. On the 
military front, (wby should I switch to 
that after a remark about Mayor Daley?), 
CDR. HENRY KRIENKE now is banging 
his hat at 4018 Aragon Dr., San Diego, 
while CDR. JOHN HAMILTON is at 
806 E. Franklin Ave., Silver Spring, Md. 
CDR. ROCCO TANNONE (1923 Lexing­
ton Ave., Halsey Village, Great Lakes, 
111.) was kind enough to visit Downey 
Veterans' Hospital on base when I alerted 
him to the news that CHUCK LAIRD 
was seriously ill there. It looks like Chuck 
will be there for some time and I'm sure 
he appreciates having Rocco on the scene. 
KEN BOONE has been named man­
ager of Anaconda Alimiinum Co.'s 
Dallas District with responsibility for 
field sales and operations in Texas and 
five other states. RICK HICKS has moved 
into Dean Witter k Co.'s ivory tower in 
San Francisco as special assistant to the 
president JOHN McNAMARA's widow, 
Sharon, wrote to give us information on 
his death. He was an investor in a com­
pany that manufactured all-terrain vehicles 
and was killed while riding in a new test 
model. At the time of his death, John 
headed the St. Paid branch oCBce of John 
Steicken and Co., investment security firm. 
Sharon and their two children will continue 
to live at 67 Battle Creek H., St. Paul, and 
I'm sure would enjoy hearing from his 
many friends. 
Here's some info from the mailbox: 
TOM MARKO has moved to 2312 E. 
28th PI., Davenport, la.; ED CZUPPA to 
Rt. 2, No. 10 Antoinette Way, Flagstaff, 
Ariz.; BUTCH WALLACE to 102 Kfl­
dare Rd., Garden City, N.Y.; DON 
LUECKE to 38 Lookout View, Fairport, 
N.Y.; RAY GENDRON to 3 Roger 
Williams Green, University Heights, 
Providence, R.I.; AL STARSHAK to 2911 
N. Rankin St., Apideton, Ws.; and JOHN FALLON to 25-5th Ave., New York. 
DAVE MEVL has been selected as Eastman Kodak's '70-'71 entry in a special executive development program offered at the U. of Rochester, which leads to a M.B.A. Dave adds that he and Sandra are the proud parents of a little girl, Mary Katherine, who will keep tabs on their two boys, Michael and SteveiL A report on the reiuiion after the Purdue game in the next coltmuu Clue me in on your activities, as well as those of other classmates who don't have the price of a stamp. 
Paul Fullmer, '55 
1922 Larkdale Dr. Glenview, lU. 6002S 
'55L OF CAHAGES AND POUnCAL KINGS Another classmate has carved out a career in pcditics. HARRY L. BUCH is Republican county chairman from Wheel­ing, W. Va. Many, who is married and has four children, is in the general practice of law with Joseph A. Gompets in Wheeling. He was just appointed by the governor to a S-year term on the West Virginia Racing Conmiission. Pete Har­rison went with the trial staff of the 
ConsSrats 
ROBERT F. McKENNA '53 was 
elected executive vice-president of 
ILG Industries, Inc. He joined 
the organization in 1966. In his 
new position he will be responsible 
for all domestic divisions and 
departments. 
RICHARD E. LYON JR, BS'54, MS'55, is now director of the Humble Oil & Refining Co.'s Esso Research Laboratories in Baton Rouge, La. He joined Esso Research and Engineering in 1955 and was involved in the first company application of computer techniques in refinery planning. 
JOHN M. PIMENTA MS'55 is in a new position with Harza Engineer­ing Co., Chicago. Director of corporate planning, he has been with Harza since 1960 and resides with his family at Wheaton, III. Pimenta also is a director of the Illinois division of the American Society of Civil Engineers. 
DR. THOMAS G. WACK '49, MA'50, PhD'61 is acting dean of Wheeling College, Wheeling, W. Va. He joined the Wheeling faculty in 
1965. He taught for four years at ND after receiving his doctorate. His father, George J. Wack, professor of modem languages at ND for 39 years, is a resident of South Bend. 
JOHN A. HOLLOWAY '49 has taken the position of senior develop­ment scientist at the B. F. Goodrich Chemical Co. development center at Avon Lake, Ohio. He joined the company in 1953 as a technical man in the new products development group and in 1966 was promoted to development scientist. 
JAMES E. MURRAY '56L has assumed duties as vice-president and general counsel for the Federal National Mortgage Assn., Washing­ton, D.C. After woricing as a law cleric for Luther M. Swygert he served in the office of the Army judge advocate general before joining a Washington law firm in which he became a partner in 1967. 
Chicago Transit Autboiity in I9SS. Called 
to active duty as reserve officer in 1962, 
Pete served with the U.S. Navy in 
Vietnam, Laos and Thafland. After his 
service stint, he served as a foreign service 
ofiScer with the State Department as 
second secretary of the embassy in Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. After three years he had 
enough of Argentina and returned to 
private practice in Chicago, joining up with 
two former Notre Dameis, Edward F. 
OToole and Robert C. Westrick. Pete 
is now married, with two daughters and 
lives in Wibnette, 111. 
Received a nice letter from Allan 
Schmid from Saginaw, Mich. Allan served 
as friend of the court for six years after 
graduation, during which period he became 
extremely active in the Michigan Bar 
Assn. In 1962, he entered private 
practice in Saginaw, specializing in trial 
practice. He has the unusual distinction 
of owning his own building, wherein his 
law office is located. We shoidd be so 
fortunate here in Qeveland. Allan has been 
extremely civic-minded during the past 
years, having served as president of the 
Big Brothers, president of the United 
Commercial Travelers and playing an 
active part in the Junior Chamber of 
Commerce and the Lions Club. One of our 
senior citizens, Allan now has Ave 
children, the oldest being 20 years of age. 
An interesting comment in his letter stated 
that his Law School education under 
Dean O'Meara, although new and different, 
nevertheless furnished him with an excel­
lent background to achieve success in his 
private practice. 
John P. Coyne 
810 National City Bank Bldg. 
aeveland, Ohio 44114 
'56 BUFFALO SHUFFLE GEORGE DAILEY, who had been district manager of the South Bend office of Dun & Bradstreet for four years, has been promoted to district manager of the Buffalo, N.Y., office. George and his wife, Betty Ann, now have two children. RICHARD J. VAN MELE has been named director of legislative research in the goverrunental and community affairs department of Associates Corporate Services Co., Inc., a subsidiary of Asso­ciates Corp. of North America. Dr. GEORGE M. KREMBS has been pro­moted to manager of the engineering department at IBM's Advanced Systems Development Division Laboratory in Mohansic. George has been program manager of Advances Disjday Systems. FRANK CAPPELLINO, who's with Kim-Cor Development Corp. in Rochester, N.Y., dropped me a note recently. Frank's son, Ricky, attended the ND Sports Camp this past June and was awarded an auto­graphed football for his accomplishments. 
We have just learned of the death of EVERARD E. HATCH on March 9, 1970. Please remember Everard in your prayers. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 668 EUicott Square Bldg. Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
*57 THINK ABOUT THE GAME I hope all of you can make it to the LSU game reunion. It will be held at the Morris Iiu after the game. 
ACHILLE D. BIAGI is the President of the Consulting Eng. firm of Edward 

T. Hannan & Assoc., Inc., in Evansville, Ind. Tile Biagis have seven children. Achille is VP of the Tri-State ND Alunmi Qub. TOM CULLINAN is the mgr. of the credit department at Lake Shore National Bank, Chicago. DICK SHELLY is college accountant at State U., Canton, N.Y. He and his wife, Carol, have two children. ART JOHNSON, M.D., has set up his internal medicine practice in La JoUa, Calif. JACK RILEY is product manager — electrostatic precipitators — in the air pollution control department of American Standard in Dearborn, Mich. HARRY McKEE is district manager for Andrew Corp., which manufactures transmissions and antennas. Harry and wife have three children and reside in Alta Loma, Calif. DR. JIM KENNEDY became a feUow of the American College of Surgeons in October of '69. The Kennedys have eight children and reside in Kankakee, III. 
PHIL DONAHUE has a syndicated TV talk show known as the "Phil Donahue Show" which will be aired five days a week in Milwaukee and Toledo starting in September. The show has been shown in 10 other cities including Cleve­land and Dayton (live), Minneapolis, Detroit, Buffalo, Philadelphia and Wheeling. This news comes through the courtesy of DON BARR. REV. JOHN SMYTH is still working hard and long as a teacher, counselor, coach, bus driver and administrator at Maryville Academy in Des Plaines, III. A great big welcome back to U.S.A. to JACK ROBINSON who has been promoted vrith Esso and reported to its N.Y. office this year as assistant government relations adviser. Jack and wife, Lynn, entertained Fr. Hesburgh in Kuala Lumpur in August of '69. The Robinsons now live in Stamford, Conn. TOM McNULTY has recently accepted a position with RCA as Regional Sales Mgr. in Atlanta, Ga. Tom and RICH WING are brothers-in­law. LARRY COOKE reports out of Modesto, Calif., that all is going well with the medical profession. Larry's letter of Sept. 1 contained some reflections on what that date meant to some of us for four years — like "first two dummy — then Uven it up." The thoughts of those two-a-day sessions on old Cartier Field can scare a guy regardless of what JOE BIHN has been teUing DEAN STUDER lately. JOHN NIZICK has joined the copy and graphic arts service of Barnes & Reinecke, Inc., engineering firm in 
Chicago as production head. 
BILL MADDOX was the co-chairman of the highly successful Chicago Club Golf Outing this past August due largely to that Mississippi riverboat gambler, BOB CALABRESE who had charge of a betting hole. Present were K J. PHELAN and GEORGE D'AMORE. TOM O'BRYAN has taken a leave of absence from the practice of law to pursue a master's degree in philosophy from Loyola U. in Chicago. Tom hopes to join the teaching profession upon receiving his degree. 
George W. Groble 111 West Washington Street Chicago, lU. 60602 
'58 SYMPATHY 
We are very sorry to report that accord­ing to news received from the Alumni Office, JOHN A. BERNARD died Aug. 
22. John, who majored in Commerce, resided at 1352 Blairmoor, Giosse Pointe 
Woods, Mich. 48236. Our beaitfdt sym­
pathy and prayers are extended to his 
widow and family. 
We also extend our prayers and sympathy 
to LEO J. JCLETZLY on the death of 
his father, who passed away last June. 
The Kletzlys' residence is 5177 Tamarack 
Blvd., Columbus, O. 43224 
JOHN A. KEHOE has been named 
manager of chemical operatioiis at Eli 
Lilly & Company's Clinton, Indiana, 
laboratories. He joined the company in 
1966 as a process engineer in chemical 
manufacturing in Indianapolis and since 
1969 had been manager of general 
chemical manufacturing at the company's 
laboratories near Lafayette, Ind. His new 
address is 314 Hickory Hill Rd., Terre 
Haute, Ind. 
USAF Maj. PAUL D. LYNCH has 
graduated from the Armed Forces Staff 
College at Norfolk, Va. Maj. Lynch, who 
previously served at Clark Air Base, 
Philippines, has comideted a tour of duty 
in Vietnam and holds the aeronautical 
rating of senior pilot 
KIRK W. WAGENSELLER has been 
promoted to vice-president of Wachovia 
Bank and Trust Co., N.A., in Kinston, 
N.C. 
JOHN VECHAZONE has been named 
manager of the Montgomery Ward Retail 
Store in the Old Orchard Shopping 
Center, Skokie, III. He, his wife Beverly 
and their three children will be moving 
to the area soon. 
USAF Maj. RICHARD A. DiCAMILLO 
has been decorated with his second 
through eighth awards of the Air Medal 
for air action in Southeast Asia. 
Seven new members of St Benedict's 
College Board of Trustees will be in­
stalled during the spring meeting of the 
college's advisory board. RICHARD P. 
SENECAL, law partner of Duncan, 
Senecal and Dempster and Judge of 
Atchison City Court is among the new 
members. 
CAPT. JAMES A. CUSHING has received the U.S. Air Force Commendation Medal for meritorious service in Thailand. 
JOHN S. RIPPEY has assumed the new post of legislative representative for the Consumer Bankers Assoc. 
LAWRENCE K. DONOVAN is com­mander in the U.S. Navy Nuclear Division. He served 19 months at Antarctica in charge of the nuclear plant and crew. He has moved to Bedford, Mass., to attend MIT for a master's degree in oceanogra­phy while in the Navy. He is father of a son Patrick, bom in January; also has two daughters Lynley (7) and Kendra (3); wife Judi is enjoying Bedford's Inter­national Gourmet Club and many area Navy friends. 
WALTER ZAKRZEWSKI has recenUy been promoted to manager pf product development for the Dewey and Almy Division of W. R. Grace Co. and has moved to the Cambridge, Mass., plant The Zakrzewski family, which now includes four sons and an adopted daughter, are living at 3 Old Meadow Lane, Acton, Mass. 01720. 
LCDR PETER O'CONNOR is presentty stationed in Okinawa where he was re­cenUy joined by his wife and four children. Peter is serving as Chief Staff Officer of the 30th Naval Construction Regiment His address is in care of the Regiment at FPO, SeatUe, Wash. 98772. 
That's the extent of our cunent news. How about droniing us a line? 
Arthur L. Koole, Jr. 
1610 W. Fifth St 
LaPorte, Indiaiia 463S0 
'59 THE OFFICERS 
Four '59eTs are currendy serving as 
presidents of their local ND alumni dubs: 
STEVE BOLANDER (Lake County, 
in.), JOE BARRY (Central New York), 
MIKE BRADY (Greater Cincinnati) and 
BILL BUCK (Ohio Valley). Other class­
mates active in the Ahimni Assodation 
are: DAVE ROEMER (vice-pres., 
MOwaukee), BOB WOMBACHER (treas., 
Peoria), BILL McCAFFREY (V-P, 
Connecticut Valley), DAVE KELSEY 
and ALDO VAIO (veep and sec'y. New 
Mexico), BOB O'MEARA (V-P, Lake 
County, ni.), MIKE MONTI (V-P, Rhode 
Island and Soudieastem Mass.), CHICK 
MARTIN (Sec'y, Dallas), BOB WELCH 
(V-P, Berkshire County, Mass.), and 
ART SHANNON (sec'y, Detroit). 
The TERRY DALYs announce the birth 
of their third daughter, Allison Wdch, 
on Aug. 3. TIM SHARON is the proxy 
godfather. The Dalys live at Bowen 
Mansions, 7C Bowen Rd., Hong Kong. 
Terry is widi the Defense Attache's Office 
in the U.S. Consulate, and expects to be 
there for two more years. JIM KENNEDY 
is now branch manager in Toledo, Ohio, 
for the Burrou^ Corp., Business Forms 
and Supplies Group. The Kennedys, in­
cluding two daughters, can be found in 
Toledo at 2751 Piovincetown Rd., 
(43613). SISTER M. JEREMY DAIGLER. 
R.S.M., has been appointed director of 
admissions at Mt St Agnes College, Balti­
more. She had been director of student 
activities at the college. Another director of 
admissions, TOM PLOFCHAN (Mary­
grove, Detroit), continues to show con­
cern about my unmarried status by 
having his delightful, unmarried, female 
assistants visit me whenever they are visit­
ing in the Northern Indiana area. I 
heartily recommend that others share Tom's 
concern! JORGE JOSE ZABLAH has a . brother, Jose Luis, in the '70 ND fresh­
man class, so we hope to see Jorge 
frequendy. If not we can visit him in 
Santa Teda, El Salvador. 
Fr. JOE HALEY CSC, rector in Badin during our sophomore year, is teaching at the U. of Portland, but spent most of his summer here on the campus. The ass't rector in Badin that year was Fr. JIM SHILTS CSC. Fr. Shilts is now ass't V-P of student affairs and rector of Fariey HaU. 
Fifty-niners "on the move": Dr. JIM CLARK (Pine Bluff, Ark.), Fr. JACK MULCAHY CSC (rector. Alumni Hall, ND), Dr. GERRY BECHAMPS (New­port News, Va.), BOB ROGERS (Denver), CHARLIE STEPHENS (Ft Mitchell, Ky.), JOE MEYER (Batavia, (Miio), CHET HOBERT (Moorestown, NJ.), Fr. JACK BUCHALO, CSC (Riverdak, in.), JIM LEWIS (St Louis), DAVE HART (Phoenix), JOHN MACKIN (Sherrin. N.Y.). LEO SWEENEY (Hins­dale, in.). TOM SWEENEY (back to Ft Lauderdale). EMIL ZERNICK (Pitts­burgh), JOHN KIEREIN (Litdeton, Colo.), Major FRANK LENNARTZ (Bowie, Md.). PAUL KEYES (New Orleans), ED McGEE (Upper Montdair. NJ.), BOB (Robert M.) BYRNES (AUendale. NJ.), CHRIS WALSH 
(Hackensack, NJ.), BILL CUSHWA 
(returning to his native Youngstown) and 
Dr. JAMES MICHAEL O'BRIEN 
(Chanute AFB, 111.). 
THOMAS J. SMITH BSC "25 and wife 
Mary with Kathy, 10, Kevin, 8, Susie, 3, 
and Danny, 10 months, are moving from 
Phoenix to 8355 E. Stella Lane, Scottsdale, 
Ariz. 85253, for more room. They are 
trading their elm tree for a giant saguaro 
cactus and desert landscaping. 
ANDREW SULLIVAN, Jr., has been 
named market research manager by 
Libby, McNeill & Libby, the Chicago-
based food company. 
Dr. THOMAS J. HALLIGAN, Jr., has 
opened an office for the practice of general 
surgery in Hartford, Conn. Dr. Halligan 
graduated from the Vermont Medical 
School and served his internship at St. 
Francis Hospital in West Hartford. He 
lives in West Hartford with his wife and 
four children. 
ROBERT J. JOHNSTON has been pro­
moted TV sales manager at WTMJ, TV-4 
in Milwaukee, Wis. At ND he was a pro­
gramming trainee with WNDU-TV. 
LOUIS SUCHER KAVANAUGH died 
July 3 at Kettering Memorial Hospital, 
Dayton, Ohio. He was associated with 
Hollencamp and HoUencamp, Dayton 
attorneys. After graduation and receiving 
his commission in the U.S. Navy he 
served two years on the USS Shangri-La. 
He was graduated from the U. of Cincin­
nati Law School in 1964. Survivors are his 
widow, Helen; his parents, Mr. and Mrs. 
Thomas J. Kavanaugh, three brothers, 
Thomas J., Frederick William and James 
Michael. 
EUGENE BERTONCINI, now a notable 
jazz guitarist, performed with his trio 
before an audience of 140 in Mitchell Hall 
on the U. of Delaware campus in July. 
He had worked as a guitarist in New 
York night clubs before graduating in 
architecture at ND. He returned to the 
music world as the result of an appear­
ance in the ND jazz festival. 
Joseph P. Mulligan 
Admissions Office 
Administration Bldg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'60 GETS HARVARD MBA 
FRANCIS S. lAQUINTA received an 
MBA from Harvard U. in June. 
H. RICHARD FAVRET has been appointed local sales manager of WKRC-Radio at Cincinnati, O. He has been with the Taft Broadcasting Co. station for more than live years as an account executive. He is married to the former Gayle Richter and has five children. 
JON WESLEY SMITH has been ap­pointed corporate purchasing agent for .Samaritan Health Service. He and his family live at 1814 W. Orangewood Dr., Phoenix, Ariz. 
ROBERT P. WILLIAMS has been named manager of area sales for the Phila­delphia branch of Xerox Corp.'s Business Products Group. He resides with his wife and three children at 202 Cooper Dr., Wallingford, Pa. 19086. 
Thomas J. O'Connell 
3350 Everett Rd. Lake Forest, lU. 60045 
'61 REMEMBER REUNION '71 
Well, it's into the fall again and I hope to see some of you at ND during the football games. JOHN LINEHAN and his wife 
Karen spent a few days with us here in 
Michigan on their way to Tulsa. Karen 
is from Germany and John certainly 
outdid himself because she sure is a doll. 
KEN ANDERSON wrote and told me that 
he has been promoted to administrative 
assistant for the P.G.A. Ken will be 
handling many of the administrative de­
tails for such things as the P.G-A. 
championships, P.G.A. Senior Champion­
ships, the Ryder Cup Matches, and 
other projecte. JIM MARTIN is still with 
Arthur Young and Co. as an Audit Mgr. 
Jim was married in I%7 to Barbara 
Evans. The Martins have a daughter, 
Karen, almost 1, and are living in 
Homewood, ID. THADDEUS TRENN has 
received an NSF science faculty fellow­
ship for the next 12 months and will be 
affiliated during this time with the 
Deutsches Mtiseum, Munich, and with 
Churchill College, Cambridge. ANCELO 
MANES and his wife Clare now have two 
children, Michael and Mamie. Angelo 
has his own personnel agency in Flush­
ing, N.Y., appropriately called N.D. 
Personnel, Inc. The ND Qub of N.Y. has 
given Angelo the green Ught to act as 
official (dacement facility for all Metro­
politan N.Y., Alumni. 
DAN REILLY is now with the FBI in 
New York City. His wife Maryann is 
teaching in the Thornton-Donovan school 
in their home town of New Rochelle. 
Joanne LESE wrote and told me that 
her husband HENRI received his Ph.D. 
in Chem. Engr. from the U. of Kentucky 
last May and he is now with Gulf Research 
Div. in Pitt. The Leses have a daughter, 
Karen, and a son, David. 

DICK LICHNER married Virginia Marie Bielak, in June 1966. Their best man was JOE O'HARA. Dick is a major in the Marines and was recently an instructor at the U.S. Army Logistics Management Center in Fort Lee, Va. Dick is in Vietnam in his second tour there. Best of luck, Dick. One of 22 to receive 
J.D. degrees from Western New En^and College is ANTHONY J. LOQUORI JR. of Hazardville, Conn. PAUL S. CAL­AMARI has been named sales manager for Valley Forge Life Insurance Co., a subsidiary of Chicago-based CNA Financial Corp. HAROLD C. McKENNA, JR. has resigned as mortgage officer at Berkshire Life Insurance Co., Pittsfield, to become V-P of Institutional Property Advisers, Inc., adviser to Institutional Investors Trust, a hew real estate investment trust now based in NYC. DONALD T. DIETZ lias been promoted to associate professor of foreign languages. He has been an instructor at the U. of Dayton. Don re­ceived his M.A. in '65 and his ni.D. in '68 from the U. of Arizona. JEROME J. CROWLEY JR. has been promoted to controller of the Fuller-O'Brien Corp., a subsidiary of the South Bend-based O'Brien Corp. 
PETE REILLY is now clerking for a Federal judge in the District of Colum­bia. Pete received his J.D. from the Georgetown Law Center last June. He embarked on his law career after being discharged from the Air Force in the summer of 1968. He and his wife live at 11211 Landy Court, Kensington, Md. 20795. Ihey have four children — Col­leen, Cathleen, Peter and Pat 
Capt. JAMES M. DEE has gtaduatal from the Air U. Squadron Officer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. He has been as­signed to DePauw U., Greencastle, Ind., 
for duty as a professor of aerospace studies with an Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps detachment 
Rev. OLIVER F. WILLIAMS, CSC '61 has begun studies in the Ph.D. program at Vanderbilt U., in Nashville, Tenn. He is working in systematic theology. 
BOB J. SHOLTZ, as president of the Southeast Tulsa Homeowners Assn., is leading the organization's campaign to halt further development of its area until water and sewer facilities are ex­panded to take care of the demand. An IBM engineer and former center for the Detroit Lions Football team. Bob is carrying the fight to the Tulsa Metro­politan Area Planning Commission. The homeowners association has been active in working for better zoning conditions. 
Just a reminder to my fellow classmates and their wives to drop a line to me with some info. Start planning ahead for the reunion next summer so that we will have a big turn-out. My wife isn't going to let me miss this one. I don't think she could take five more years of typing! Best wishes to all. 
Bill Henneghan 
30556 Scrivo Dr. 
Warren, Mich. 48092 
'62 JERUSALEM 
Just received a letter from TED TESKE who is beginning his residency in radiology at Fitzsimmons General Hospital, Denver. Ted's family now includes three children and vrife, Diane. TOM BULL has been named employment relations co-ordinator for the U. of Wisconsin, Madison. BOB ANTONELLI writes from Jerusalem, Israel, where he is doing a year's post-doctorate study in archaeology. Bob has just completed a doctorate in biblical studies at the U. of Strasbourg, France. His address is P.O. Box 178, Jerusalem, and I'm sure he would appreciate hearing from you. 
Recently, yours truly had a small party for a few members of our class, some of whom, coincidentally, happened to be in Washington. MIKE HARTNETT, the Director of Sales for the St. Francis Hotel, San Francisco, was very much in evi­dence. Mike was in town on convention business and enjoying life to the fullest. His old roomie MARK MARQUARDT was also in attendance with wife, Carol. Mark is now a partner in a law firm in Qearwater, Fla., and was in town to visit Carol's parents. From Baltimore came EARL LINEHAN and his vivacious Darielle. Eari is a principal in a nursing home corporation headquartered in that Chesapeake Bay port. Across the Potomac from Reston, Va., came CHARLIE WASSAF and wife Carolyn (formerly Carolyn Jones and formerly SMC). From home base came JACK CLARK, CHRIS BUCKLEY and BILL SCANLON. Jack with date, Chris stag and Bill accom­panied by his Nebraska lass, Terry. Quite a party with special accolades to my wife. Merrily. 
The strains of Dixie seem slightly muffled by the seeming lack of representa­tion of the Class of '62 in the South. Alabama listed EMMETT EVANS in Fairhope, JOE GIATTINA in Homewood and JIM JASPER and BARRY MAHER in Birmin^am. Georgia has JOHN HUT­TON in Danielsville, period. I can't be­
lieve that no member of our class lives 
in Atlanta. The land of Tex Ritter shows 
that JOHN McREYNOLDS resides in 
Knoxville, AL KERNS in Memphis and 
JIM BREEN and NEIL DROZESKI in 
Nashville. Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 
numbers among its citizens, GEORGE 
LENSING and DR. PETE MORRIS, 
while JACK CASTIN represents the great 
state of South Carolina from his home in 
Columbia. DAVE TRIGANI has been 
known to wear his "Archie" button while 
walking the streets of his home town, Jack­
son, Miss. I would love to know the story 
of DAVE WIGTON's move to Conway, 
Ark. A neighbor of his in Little Rock is 
JOHN ZEILER. Louisiana, Florida and 
Kentucky are more densely populated 
and I will run down some of the leading 
citizens of those states in the next issue. 
It was nice seeing KARL ROESLLER a 
while back. Karl works for General 
Electric as an auditor out of upstate New 
York but was in this area recently on 
business. Where are you, MIKE TYNAN? 
A few inquiries have been made concern­
ing your whereabouts. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St. Bethesda, Md. 20034 
'62L IN PRACTICE 
Since the opening of my practice, I've had occasion to correspond with several of our classmates. NORMAN STARK, who is with MacDonald, lUig, Jones & Brit-ton in Erie, Pa., reports that "Everything is fine. We are aging slowly, our children are growing strong and well and my prac­tice is satisfying." Norm saw STAN PECORA in June at a seminar. Stan, now a city councilman in Bradford, Pa., "has a beautiful office in his own small build­ing and has an excellent practice that is quite varied." 
GEORGE McANDREWS, of Molinare, AUegretti, Newitt & Witcoff, says that he and Kathy recently entertained the GOULDs at the McAndrews' new home in Barringion, III. Jim and Nancy and children were "completing the last leg of a camping trip around Lakes Michigan and Superior and were scheduled to visit JIM and Mary STUCKO at their new home in DeeiiSeld." George added: "If we can get a few more of the members of the Class of '62 strategically positioned, then vacation trips for harried fathers who feel themselves obligated to show their children the benefits of the great outdoors in the Great Lakes area should become a breeze." George recently con­fronted J. PAT CASHIN on the other side of the bargaining table. Pat is house counsel for Super Valu, a grocery chain, which is headquartered in Hopkins, Minn. CoincidentaUy, JOHN DiNARDO, of Schwartz & Freeman in Chicago, says that when he last saw George, George was living in Barrington and "acclimating himself to a two-hour daily commute to and from his office." There must be something right with Barrington to war­rant that. JERRY BRANN, on Aug. 8, announced the formation of a partnership under the name of Vineski, Braim i Williams with offices in Canton and Troy, Pa. MIKE KELLY is now V-P and trust officer at the Victoria Bank & Trust Co. in Victoria, Texas. Mike says that, "although our department is small, the opportunities and the many things to be done are stimulating at times and 
Congrats 
As new manager, FRED J. BOOTH '58, will be responsible for sales and new product development for the Lindley Retail Division of Federal Paper Board Co., Inc., Morris, III. Before joining the firm he was with the folding carton division of Container Corp., of America. 
WILLIAM M. FURY "59 has been promoted to assistant trust officer at Detroit Bank & Trust. He joined the bank a year ago and had been in the personal trust division. Holder of an LL.B. from the U. of Detroit, he had been in private law practice. 
BRIAN M. TUOHY '61 is the new 
director of communications and 
development at Chaminade High 
School, Mineola, N.Y. Prior to his 
appointment, he was American 
literature, creative writing and film 
study instructor in the Westbury 
Public School System. 
MATTHEW H. McCLOSKEY IV 
'64 is now associated with Elkins, 
Morris, Stroud & Co., members of 
the New York Stock Exchange, 
as a registered representative in the 
Philadelphia office. He resides with 
his wife and their four children at 
1623 Lark Lane, Villanova, Pa. 
MELVIN W. BOLDT AB'64, BS'65, has been elected assistant attorney in the law division of the First National Bank of Chicago. He received an LL.B. degree from the U. of Virginia Law School in 1968. He resides with his wife and their three children at 754 Middleton Ave., Palatine, 111. 
ROBERT L. DILENSCHNEIDER '65 is now vice-president of Hill and Knowlton, Inc., a public relations counseling firm in New York City. In 1967 he received an MA in public relations from Ohio State U. and joined the company in that year. 
stifling at others." The Kellys have three children: Bridget, born in June 1969, who is currently "destroying our humble little house along with her sister, Kate, and her brother, Brian." Mike attended the State Bar Ass'n meeting in San Antonio in July and ran into DENNIS SULLIVAN and his wife, Beverly. Dennis is prac­ticing with the firm of Goldberg and Allen in Dallas and is doing well. STAN NELSON is settled in Comwell Heights, Pa., with Weiss, Nelson & Moskowitz. JOE ALBRIGHT and Patty are down in Parkersburg, W. Va. Joe is a partner in Albright & Richmond. DAVE HOSINSKI is now senior trust officer at the St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co. in South Bend. FELIX MACIZEWSKI, a partner in the Honolulu firm of Carlsmith, Carlsmith, Wichman & Case, spent 2!/4 weeks this summer at Harvard and Las Vegas (how's that for a combination?) at seminars, and then I'A weeks of vacation with the family on the island of Maui. Oh, that Hawaiian practice! WILLIAM J. GE­RARD, a partner in the Milwaukee firm of Shea, Hoyt, Greene, Randall & Meissner, says that his father is a neigh­bor of JIM and Sophie GOETHALS in Sturgis, Mich., and that Jim and Sophie are doing well. JOE SUMMERS is estab­lished in the St. Paul firm of Rosen, Ravich & Summers. Joe reports that "the rhythm of private practice is rather dif­ferent and more enjoyable than the cut and thrust of public office." 
In late August, Marge and I decided on the spur of the moment to take a train trip, sans children, to New Orleans. We did and had the pleasure of breakfast­ing with JACK MARTZELL. After finishing his clerkship with Judge Skelly Wright and being the sole survivor of a disastrous auto accident. Jack served as general counsel to the Louisiana State Human Rights Commission and has been very active in civil rights movements since. He is doing a great deal of trial work, personal injury and criminal, and his firm, Ungar, Dulitz & Martzell, has rather unique offices — in their own building — in the French Quarter in historic New Orleans. Several months ago Jack returned to the campus for a week to lecture on torts and trial practice. I also spoke to JIM WYSOCKL Jim practiced with Jack for a while but switched to Windhorst, Heisler & DeLaup where he's now a partner. He, too, is doing a great deal of trial work, in and out of New Orleans, and logged over 30,000 air miles last year. Interestingly, I'm told that New Orleans is the third most active federal court, behind New York (CS. D. N.Y.) and Phfladelphia, and will soon take over the No. 2 spot in this regard. KEVIN LYONS is doing well in FL Lauderdale. BOB COX has a very active corporate practice with Baker & MacKenzie in N.Y. TOM JOYCE also is doing a great deal of corporate work with Sherman & Sterling in N.Y. In the early part of this year Tom and Patty and their two girls moved over to Geneva, Switzerland, for three months where Tom had to work on a registration state­ment. Tom says that he enjoyed the stay very much but that the work was quite intense. Unfortunately, the printer — a most important man — could not under­stand English very well. In fact, Tom and his associates were forced to assume tweezers and do some of the typesetting themselves. Eventually they were com­
pelled to go to London to get their 
statement printed. 
Marge and I expect to come out for 
one of the November battles and hope 
to see one and all. Regards. 
Paul K. Rooney 
Suite 1457 — The Lincoln BIdg. 
60 E. 42nd St 
New York, N.Y. 10017 
'63 HARDLY ANYBODY WRITES 
"Every time I look through the ALUMNUS I wonder how come the fellas I know well don't appear. Finally I decided they must be like me and never write!" A very sagacious comment, from LARRY TEMPLE. Exactly what happened this month, hardly anybody wrote! Larry went on to mention that he's living in North-brook, III., where he runs the Scholastic Transit Co. as well as dabbling in the grain business. Larry also was recently elected to the board of the Chicago ND club. 
PAUL CARROLL is working in Chicago at Hayden Stone & Co. MIKE ROACH was married just this summer. TOM WALTON is selling time for ABC or CBS, according to Larry. TOM THILMAN is living in Chicago, working in the family insurance business. TONY ZACK is heading a division of products for 3M in Peoria, III. Thanks for the newsy letter, Larry, take care of your two boys. 
J. H. SUNDERMANN is an attorney with Nichols Wood, Mary and Ginten in Cincinnati, O. He has a new son, David. MIKE LARSON is a manufacturing engi­neer for Trane Co., Scranton, Pa. He was completing his MBA last winter at Scranton, and has two children. BOB ALBERTINI has two children, and is a doctor on active duty at Westover AFB, Mass. 
Nice note from CHARLIE KENNY, who is an assistant professor at Memphis State. He is working with CARL WIEDERMANN on a research paper in psychology. Carl is teaching at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in NYC and finishing a Ph.D. at NYU in clinical psychology. JACK MORIARTY is now practicing law in Indianapolis. 
PAT WILLIAMS is active in county work in Columbia, S.C. Now has a little girl to add to the litUe boy. TOM RILEY is a co-owner and president of a new company in Tampa, Fla, the Tri-City Contractors. He lives in Tampa. That's all for now, let's see some letters!!! 
Thomas Hotopp 
R. D. 1, 55 Churchm St. Big Hats, N.Y. 14814 
'64 ADMITTED TO BAR PHIL FAHERTY, JR. '64 was admitted to the New Jersey Bar in October of '67. He began military service in Febmaiy of '68, spent a year in the states and a year in Vietnam. He got out of service in February of '70 as a captain adjutant general. He received the Bronze Star and is now practicing law with his father in Lambertville, NJ. Has two sons, Philip IV, and Shawn, ages seven 'and one. Shawn was bom when Phil was in Vietnam. 
First Lt. GERARD P. CARROLL has 
received his second award of the U.S. 
Air Force Commendation Medal at 
Bien Hoa AB, Vietnam, for air action in 
Southeast Asia. He is assigned at Bien 
Hoa with the 604th Special Operations 
Squadron, a unit of the Pacific Air Forces. 
DAVID P. GARNER and WILLIAM 
R. SWANSON received MBA degrees from Harvard U., on June 11. 
Warren C. Stephens 
206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, NJ. 07023 
'66 NEW ADDRESS 
Please notice my change of address. After four years of apartment renting, I decided it was time to stop climbing walls and to purchase a home. Please direct all your correspondence to my new residence. 
It was a real pleasure getting together with my old roommate, MIKE McKIM and his bride, Jane, in Chicago last month. It was great renewing old acquaint­ances vrith him. Mike has recently completed a year of clerking for a federal district court judge in Minneapolis and is about to start practice with a large firm in the same town. I also recently heard from my ex-roommate JOHN CAVAN who is in New Jersey completing work on his master's degree at Rutgers. One Notre Damer who couldn't stand to leave the St. Mary's giris is DONALD E. MILLER who has been a faculty member at St. Mary's since 1967. Don was recently promoted from instructor to assistant professor of mathematics. C. R. WINTER­BOTTOM is also a teacher, only he is located in a much more desirable area, i.e., Honolulu. JIM FILIATRAUT is working as an advertising salesman with Datamation, a trade publication in the computer industry. Jim is living in Menlo Park, Calif., with his lovely wife, Judith. BRUCE VOSBURG is in Chicago prac­ticing law with Kirkland, Ellis—one of the nation's outstanding firms. Other attorneys in the area are BARRY McNAMARA and PETE CAREY. 
PAUL J. POLKING has joined the legal department of North Carolina Bank, Charlotte. Paul had been with the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency in Washing­ton, D.C. U.S. Air Force Second Lt. JOHN H. MANGOLD, who was a medical administrative officer with a USAF Dispensary unit, has been assigned to duty at McGuire Air Force Base, NJ. ROBERT A. SIEBERT is an estate-tax examiner with the Brooklyn District of Internal Revenue Service after completing his Army service in Vietnam. DR. LAW­RENCE C. RUSIN received his M.D. degree in June from Loyola U. in Chicago. Larry is now on a surgical internship at the Mary Hitchcock Hospital, which is associated with Dartmouth U. GEORGE PALMER is back in his hometown of Tallahassee, Fla., where he is working with Goodbody & Co. He and his wife, Lynn, had a son, George Palmer III, a year ago April. MIKE THOMAS is working as a systems engineer at NASA Manned Spacecraft Center while com­pleting his MSEE at the U. of Houston. TOM O'SHAUGHNESSY is working for Alcoa—Closure Division—^in Richmond, Ind. GAR ISACCO writes from Hyatts­ville, Md., where he is working on his MBA at the University of Maryland. Gar was married last November at Sacred Heart Church to Liz Long (SMC '68). 

Gar said he ran into TERRY KIWALA 
in Chicago where Terry was finishing up 
at Northwestern Law School. Car and 
JOHN BLUM renew acquaintances 
frequently. John is with the Marriott 
Corp. in Maryland and is the proud father 
of a boy and a girl. JACK FOLEY is 
studying for his Ph.D. at the U. of Iowa. 
TOM RYAN, recently out of the Air 
Force, is with the Department of Agri­
culture in Washington, D.C. 
It was a terrible shock to learn of the untimely death of BOB GUENARD in San Francisco on September 1. Bob had graduated from Cornell University Law School in 1969 and was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar the same year. Bob had spent a year with VISTA providing legal services to the underprivileged in Cleveland and had planned to join Urban Innovations, a Boston organization work­ing for low-income housing. This is the kind of person Bob was, always giving of himself to benefit others. My sincere con­dolences go out to his family, and I hope they can find some consolation in the fact that he will always be remembered in the thoughts and prayers of his classmates. A scholarship fund has been set up in Bob's name. Contributions can be made to the Robert C. Guenard Scholarship Fund, Foxboro Savings Bank, Foxboro, Mass. I ask you all to support this most worthwhile fund. 
Information cards are starting to diminish in number. Please drop me a line and let me know what you and your classmates are doing and please remember my change in address. Also don't wait too long to make plans for our fifth-year reunion this coming June. Peace. 
Richard Angelotti 
4260 Clausen Western Springs, III. 60558 
'66L JACKPOT! From what I hear, a number of us plan on attending the Louisiana State game on Nov. 21. BOB MURPHY, BOB KRAUSE and yours truly will be found in "Cliff & Otto's" before the game, and at the Law School after the game. We hope to see many of our classmates. Drop me a line if you will be at the game and we can make more definite arrangements. 
Sean KRAUSE was bom Sept. 1. That makes two boys for Terri and BOB. After 7 years of going nowhere Cookie and I hit the jackpot this year. We had a week in Bermuda in June and 10 days in Hawaii in September. BOB MURPHY saw AL McKENNA in Columbus when Bob delivered the FBI's report on Kent State to the attorney general of Ohio. Al has slimmed down to a mere shadow of his former self. He will be leaving the 
U.S. attorney's office and entering private practice in Columbus sometime this fall. Al has seen TOM McNALLY regularly, and told Bob that Tom is jetting around the country on business for his Cincinnati law firm. 
I will be writing each of you soon to begin planning for our 5-year reunion next June. I hope each of you will plan on coming and will send me any thoughts you have. 
Frank Gregory 5018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 '67 DEGREES AND BABIES Thanks to you guys the mail bag has done its "thing," and so have our fellow classmates — as this article's title indicates. Updated news from MIKE KING since my last writing indicates that Mike is back from Vietnam as of late August and is now enrolled in the U. of Pittsburgh Law School. The day of his recent note he and the other ND diving "sensation," CHRIS SIEGLER, were enjoying a few holes of golf together. Word has it that the water holes create no problem for these two. JOHN JORDAN is on the move again — this time to Fort Eustis, Va., as of Oct. 6 in completion of his ROTC commitment. John tells me that he has now finished law school at the 
U. of Denver and is glad that it is behind him. JOHN and Carolyn will not be traveling light this time since Carolyn is expecting a new Jordan to arrive in November. While on the subject of new arrivals, JoAnn and I are anxiously awaiting our first sometime in January. MIKE THIEL tells me that he is also on the move. Mike is returning to Boston and MITs Sloan School of Management to complete what he started three years ago. After ND, Mike entered the Sloan School, decided in June 1968 to join Esso Standard Eastern (necessitating a move to New York City), shared married vows with the former Betsy Browning of Philadelphia in September of the same year, and now plans to return to the books. According to Mike, BILL GILES has been a busy man during the past year and a half. After being drafted. Bill talked his way into a commission (as only Bill could do) and is now in Germany serving out the rest of his stint. Coupled with all this activity, Bill and the former Carol Carley stepped down the aisle in September 1969. 
Would you believe that DREW DALY has come out of hiding, or at least his pen has! Drew informs me that he is now out of the Navy after having first completed a year round-the-world cruise of the USS Annapolis to conduct a communications survey (where can people sign up for such a deal?) and is going strong at Columbia U.'s MBA program. Another NDer, JOHN ZIMMERMAN is involved in the same program. Good luck, boys! Drew writes that he and JIM "MUMPER" SHERIDAN attended ALFRED "BUTCH" BYRNE'S wedding June 6 in Rochester, N.Y. Butch married the former Louise Paulson whom he met while working at Eastman-Kodak. JIM and Eileen BARRY are the proud parents of James Thomas who arrived in August. Congratulations! Eileen says he's a sure future Notre Damer. In the meantime, Jim has graduated from St Louis Law School and is working at Touche, Ross & Co. as a tax consultant. Word has it that MICHAEL A. O'NEILL has joined the Upjohn Co. as a pharmaceutical sales representative and will be assigned to the Philadelphia sales area. We hear that CHARLES M. MORRISON was elected first V-P of the Virginia Association of Insurance Agents at the group's convention in Bermuda (what a way to go!). Charlie is a partner in the Richmond, Va., insurance agency of Tabb, Brochenbrough and Rogland. EDWARD 
T. McAULIFFE tells us he has been promoted to captain in the U.S. Air Force. Ed is a manpower management 
ofiBcer at BoOing AFB, Wasldngtoii, D.C, and serves with the headqnarteis conunand. Obviously the mail coiitiniies to pour in; but, hey, you guys, there ate still hordes of you who have yet to find your pens. The rest of your dass would enjoy bearing from you, so please give it a "Fighting Irish" try. 
Jack Buttler 
4023 EUine Place South 
Columbus, Ohio 43227 
'67L THREES ARE WILD JAMES HARRINGTON is reported doing a lot of woric defending major companies in the rash of pidlution cases that are litteiing the courts in Chicago. The Harringtons are expecting their third child very soon. DAVE FRANCESCANI and Maureen are expecting No. 3 in Nov. or Dec. The Francescanis are living in Port Washington, N.Y. ART SWIRTZ has been appointed assistant U.S. atty. for the Eastern District of Michigan and is working out of Flint Barbara and Art are also expecting their third baby; they have two boys. The HEINHOLDS are saying, "threes may be wild but two is enough." 
I may have mentioned that DICK MUENCH, who left Vietnam 6 months ago, extended his hitch by 6 months in exchange for a promise of a California duty, station. Carol and Dick plan to make that state their permanent duty station. JOHN HARGROVE is still in Vietnam but is due to leave Nov. 12. He met Jane in Hawaii for a few days in June for a little R. & R. He was scheduled for discharge in Jan. 1971 but has made a deal with the Marines (such a deal!). Hell extend his hitch one full year for a guaranteed assignment to San Diego. Jane and John fell in love with Southern California and it must be love since without reciprocity with N.Y., John win have to take the California Bar next March. They'll be in N.Y. in November before heading west and we hope to see them. Managed to speak with KEN LAZARUS in Washington, D.C. He is still with the Justice Dept and has spent the last IVi years in the tax division i^ter 6 months in the crimiiud division. Ken has been going to school and should receive his master's in tax next year. Ken may receive an appointment as Assistant U.S. Attorney in Newark and is also considering Florida as a possible permanent residence. He was in SEAN KEENAN's wedding and from all reports it was quite a soiree. Spoke with WiB KONOPA who is still with the Crumpacker firm in South Bend. Apparently, everything is still the same out there with JIM OLSON still with the Schmdler firm in Mishawaka and BILL ALBRIGHT with Piser t Cox and TONY LUBER doing some Legal Aid work. Received a letter from TOM CSHAUGHNESSY. Tom, after earning a Bronze Star in Vietnam, has returned to Chicago where he has settled into a home at 101 S. Edgewood, La Grange, HI. Paulette and he have two children, Kathleen, 2, and Tom III, bom in July 1970. He informs us that BILL SCHMUHL i^ans to go with Arthur Andersen in Chicago. Also, TED SINARS is doing a lot of tax work with Harris, Burman and SDtes in Chi., and TOM McDONOUGH with the Sute's 
Attorney's office in the same city. Pleased to hear from you. 
Jim Heinhold 
16 Morris Rd. 
East Haven, Conn. 06513 
'68L HfXLO, COLUMBUS 
BOB, Mary and Christa SIDMAN 
continue to enjoy living in Columbus, 
Ohio. Christa is going on two and is 
growing like a weed. In May, Bob ended 
his clerkship with Judge Kinneary with 
some regret. It was a great experience and 
great fun at the same time. The cases 
Bob saw ran the gamut of legal issues 
and included several opportunities to 
observe F. Lee Bailey at work. Bob 
decided upon a different type of challenge 
and is now with the Columbus firm of 
Mayer, Tingley, Hurd and Emens. It is a 
young and growing firm doing primarily 
corporate work. If Bob's attitude is any 
indication, he should find this association 
just as enjoyable as his last 
I must apologize to DICK HIRSCH for relying on LARRY MILLER for informa­tkm. I'll just have to get a more reliable source, Larry. Dick is not working for National Lawyers' Guild, as reported. He is actually associated with VISTA and connected with the program on Urban Affairs and Poverty Law at NYU Law School. The program is a combination of field work and further study leading to an LL.M. in Urban Law. TTie field work consists of acting as "house counsel" to local and community groups in such areas as housing, education, pollution, etc. It has been extremely interesting and has involved Dick in problems in many different areas. Next spring Dick is scheduled to teach a seminar at NYU Law School on Juvenile Courts and the Legal Problems of Youth. His commit­ment to VISTA terminates in June, and Dick then idans to return to California, at least for a little while. JOHN and Pat PUSHY recently celebrated their first aimiversary. It seems that they have spent the last year visiting the law school alumni. Last December John was an usher at DICK MANNING'S marriage to Laurie Hellerman. Dick and Laurie have just moved into a new home and are expecting a baby sometime this fall. In Fd)niary John and Pat attended JACK SANDNER's wedding and in July journeyed to Colorado to visit the western aiuKX of the class. Pat informed me that the DICK HENESSEYs are expecting another baby in December; Ann and JIM SECKINGER's will arrive in January. The Henesseys, Seckingers, and TERRY KELLYs have all bought homes and are becoming terrific handymen and gardeners. John is very busy but enjoys his work with the firm and seems to be gravitating toward trial work. Last year he taught a business law course at the local jum'or ccdieee and thoroughly enjoyed expounding to his captive audience. In addition to all this, he is V-P of the Peoria ND Club. 
An era has come to an end. PETE KING has left the employ of Roy Cohn and has become associated with Greenberg, Trayman, Harris, Cantor, Reiss and Blasky, a firm specializing in representing construction contractors in New York. (Pete's nnist be the only name not on the letterhead.) Most of his time will be spent litigating contract cases against the City or one of its agencies. He loves the opportunity to get back at John Lindsay. Pete's parting with Roy was amicable. With the arrival of Sean (who cries with a Brooklyn accent rather than a southern drawl—the poor kid), be decided that it was time for a more tranquil existence. The two years with Roy were pretty hectic to say the least Pete's military career continues to advance with his recent designation as company mailman. Not satisfied with careers in the law and military, he is now jumping into politics and is a Republican connnitteeman. Where will he go from here? 
Dennis C. Thelen 
7816 Lisa Dr. 
Norfolk, Va. 23518 
'69 FILLING THE GAP 
Sorry about missing the last issue but if 
you take a minute to recall the com­
munication gap which perennially exists 
within a great university comi^ex, you'll 
understand, I'm sure. 
Our class pres. was the first to write. DAVE WITT explained he plaiuied on traveling through Central and South America this past summer. Assuming he returned safely, "Clyde" shoidd be entering Case Western Reserve Law School in Cleveland. This will be quite a change after a year of teaching social studies at one of Cleveland's inner-city schools. BILL DELL was Dave's roonumte this past year and taught theology at a local high school. Dave's letter further related that NEIL SHORT is doing PR work for the diocese of Joliet, lU., and getting to do a lot of public speaking. CHUCK SHEEDY is at Harvard Business School while JOHN BEARY is at Harvard's Med school. Both have fallen in love with the city of Boston. VISTA claims KEVIN GALLAGHER in Iowa, of aU places. FRANK TRAYNOR is doing grad work in sociology at the U. of Nebraska. He has a research assistantship in the Center of Urban Affairs. Frank wrote he had been active in the anti-war activities adding, "Here in Nebraska, even the Birchers are- left-wingers." GREG SCHATZ is also in Omaha at Creighton Law School. JACK CAMPBELL is happily married and attending Georgetown Law. MIKE PARKER is married (Sue) and worldng with a CPA firm in Washing­ton, D.C. JIM KOZAK is in Clevdand teaching retarded children and MIKE HOGAN is at the U. of San Francisco studying law. Thanks for all the informa­tion, Dave. On June 6, I was in Lake Forest, 111., to bear witness to the wedding of my "original roommate" CHRIS DEE. Chris should have received his MBA from Loyola in August What are Maun and yourself up to now, Chris? Please write. 
KIP HORVATH's sister, Jill, dropped us a line to let us know Kip is currently serving his two-year Amy hitch. He should have graduated in July from NCO school at Fort Benning. Kip is a former member of the Irish Guard. His buddy BILL MILLER attended the U. of Michi­gan this past year and was married in July. TIM RODDY was doing grad work at MSU and TOM LAMB is sutiooed at San Diego in the Navy. BRAD Mc-CONVILLE is in Med schocd in Iowa. Badin residents must remember "WILD BILL" ELLIS. Bill writes that he is really enjoying his assignment at George AFB near Los Angeles. As public informatioii officer, he's even able to serve some temporary duty in Las Vegas. He invites and ND'er in the area to drop in and cool oS in his pool. (It's too bad it's not always so comfortable.) Carmen Dur CONLEY, SMC '69, tells us what it's reaUy like. Her husband, NORM, is in Vietnam until June, '71. They are expecting their second child in January. STAN DUR, her brother, is currently in the Navy, stationed in Newport. Since graduation he has been to the Mediterranean and Caribbean. 
"CORK" (ANDY) CHLEBECK is teaching and coaching in Miami, Fla. TIM RYAN is with the Army at Fort Benmng, Ga. JOHN LEONARDO reports he's enjoying every minute at George Washington Law School in D.C. He married the former Pat Donlon from SMC. John also included much information about other members of our class. JOHN MULLER is also in law at G.W. and was to be married this summer. MIKE PEPEK is at Georgetown Dental School and MIKE McCAULEY is with the Peace Corps in Ceylon. JOHN MOORE and his wife, Gail Anderson (SMC), are living in South Bend as John attends ND Law School. COLEY O'BRIEN is also at ND Law as is CHUCK NAU. Chuck was having draft problems in June. Hope you made out O.K., Chuck. ERROL FLYNN is working with an insurance company in Hartford, Conn. DON STORINO is married and teaching at Holy Cross High in Chicago. During the winter Don also coached their basketball team. JOE CARROLL is reportedly doing very well in graduate math studies at Harvard. DAVE WHITE taught grade school last year in Boston, but now with a medical deferment is planning on English grad work this fall. This summer RICK WARD married Mary Ann Wolf of SMC. Of course, we could never overtook RICHARD ROSSIE. Rich is enjoying his studies at Virginia U. law school. Good luck. Rich, and thanks for an the news, John. 
Lt J.G. SAM UPDIKE responded from a ship out of Norfolk. He considers himself "somewhat of a world traveler" having been to the Mediterranean and North Seas and scheduled to go to the Caribbean this winter. Sam is still single but his twin, LARRY UPDIKE, married the former Monica Manchester of SMC and is now residing in Washington, D.C. JIM JULIAN is stiU with Bache & Co. but woefully admits this wasn't the best year to enter the brokerage business. Jim wrote for the column that CHRIS PAGE is happily married (Judy) and a MBA candidate at UCLA. MARK BLACKWELL is an OCS cadet at Ft Belvoir, Va. J(MIN HOFFMAN, pursuing a law degree at George Washington U., is engaged to Barbara Fisher of Memorial Nursing School (S.B.). John's wedding is planned for June 12. Lt J.G. STEVE MILLER is with the Navy in Denmark. Steve and his wife, Maxine, are expecting No. 1 in September. DAN MEESE and his wife, Karen, are the parents of Master Matthew Meese. Dan is an "executive" with Lincoln National Bank in Fort Wayne. JOHN BOYLE is working with the government in D.C. CORDON BEELER and KEN HERSEG were both married at Sacred Heart this sununer. MIKE SWIATEK, married in February (Carol), is now serving with the National Guard. 
After a year of teaching, JIM BEN­

NETT departed to Fort Knox, Ky., for his six-month sUetch of active duty. Jim's assignment will be helicopter repair. CARM PINO is returning to law studies this fall and continuing to work part time with Price Waterhouse. He's also planning on talcing the CPA exam in November. Carm mentioned BRIAN MclNERNY stopped to visit him after an extended tour of Europe and Asia. JOHN HAIRE reports the most serene environment can be found on the Hawaiian Islands. After a two-week vacation in Buffalo he was very anxious to return. John and CHAD LOVE, his roommate, plan to retire temporarily from the teaching profession and enroll in graduate studies at the U. of Hawaii in Honolulu. On June 13, JACK COATH was married to Diane Romak in Sacred Heart. Members of the wedding party included JIM RIPPERGER and GARY CAMPANA. Also in attendance were Cheryl and JAY HARTMAN, JOHN KURTZ and JOHN DYKMANS. Jim is presently in law school at Rutgers and Gary is working as an advertising copywriter at Standard Rate and Data Service in Skokie, lU. RICH MALECKI mentioned he will be working with Haskins and Sells in Buffalo this fall. Rich is awaiting approval of his CO. appeal before he returns to law school, probably in Sept. 1971. On Aug. 22, Rich was at the wedding of DAVE LIS (Denise). He reports Dave excelled at Duke Law School this past year. Dave placed 8th in his class and was appointed to the Law Review. 
Currently I've engaged myself as a fuU-time staff member in Arthur Gold­berg's campaign for the governorship of New York state. Thus far it has been of great interest. I only hope the experience will outweigh the delay in my legal education. As you have read, the response has been terrific. Keep it up! A short note will keep your friends posted on football reunions. Anything legible will be printed. 
Mike Neumeister 
64 West Winspear Ave. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14214 
'69 MBA The faithful have been unusually diligent in providing interesting information, so I will get right down to reporting. 
TOM JOHNSON completed his OCS training at Fort Belvoir, Va., and received his gold bar on May 22. He will be attached to the Combat Development Command at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland. Tom reports that his unit is engaged in the Army's long-range planning a la H. Igor Ansoff and Peter Dnicker. 
JOE McCOURT reports from Milwaukee (address: 2214A No. 40th St., Milwaukee, Wis. 53208) that he is enjoying his position with V. Mueller and Co., a division of American Hospital Supply. Wife Peg is finishing her studies at Marquette. 
JOHN KNITTEL obviously did not benefit from the Production Control class at Notre Dame. He and Rita are expecting their second child in December. John is also conducting his aimual go-round with the draft board and we wish him luck in obtaining a continuance of his occupa­tional deferment. 
The ranks of bachelorhood suffered a severe and unanticipated blow when FRED DENNY took the marriage vows on Aug. 29. Fred was married to Shirley Beatty in St Louis. They will be living in San Antonio, where Fred is a lieutenant in the Air Force. 
KEVIN SULLIVAN has provided us with some interesting news and an enjoyable letter. As it turns out, the rumors regarding Kevin's impending return to ND were greatly exaggerated. Instead Kevin has accepted a teaching assistant­ship at Kent State U. and will be starting work on a D.B.A. this fall. Kevin's wife Joan will also return to academia and attend law school at Case Western Reserve. Kevin gives an account of an impromptu meeting with JERRY CLAEYS on Wall Street during a hard-hat demon­stration. Taking refuge under the protec­tive umbrella of a Good Humor wagon, the two of them discussed the role of business in society. 
Kevin provided us with some information on TOM GILL. Tom is at Fort Sill, Okla., with his mailing address: 120 North­west 44th St., Apt. 1-6, Lawton, Okla. Tom is waiting for a court decision on his request for a status as a conscientious objector. 1 would like to wish Tom the best of luck in his effort and hope that his request is granted. 
DANIEL C. ROHR, MBA "70 has joined the commercial banking department at Continental Bank, Chicago. He is partici­pating in the bank's administrative development program. 
With the football season once again upon us, the highlight for ND fans in the Midwest was the contest against Missouri on Oct 17. 
Keep up the good reporting. 
Joe Cavato 
7122 Vernon 
University City, Mo. 63130 
'69L WOULD YOU BELIEVE, 
HARRY? JOE McNEIL and FRANK MURRAY dropped a jointly written letter to me this month advising that Frank and Mary Ann had moved from Pa. to Burlington, Vt. In July, Joe became city attorney of Burlington, and soon thereafter Frank assumed the position of city prosecutor. Through some type of chicanery, the nature of which was not fully disclosed in their letter, it appears that Joe is city attorney and assistant city prosecutor, and that Frank is city prosecutor and assistant city attorney. The private business which cannot be handled under the foregoing arrangement is referred to none other than TOM WARD '68L. WhOe Frank and Joe profess to be tied up in work, a separate letter from Mary Aim advises that their golf scores have im­proved dramatically, thanks in part to their acquisition of certain rights in the use of Burlington's Xerox 1200. Invitations have been extended to all '69ers to visit Burlington for the ski season. 
In my moving about the Denver area, I may have neglected to mention in my last column that RALPH LITZEN­BERGER is presently stationed with the Army at Fort Rucker, Ala., as a JAG officer. On June 13, while on leave, he married Jolan Mayordiak — m juror on his practice court case — in Dayton, Ohio. Present at the wedding were REGIS TRENDA, Roz and TOM RAWERS and Sandi and JC»IN REID. BOB GREEN is finishing his master's at NYU this coming spring, and upon obtaimng the same he intends to leave his work with VISTA and return to Bofhlo and to his old job with Phillips, Lytle, et at. Bob's letter mentioiied a recurring complaint of friends passing thiou^ Denver: no one seems to be able to reach me. Hoiaiig that more of you will have an opportunity to spend some time here in the near future, look for Patsy and me at 1050 Lafayette, No. SOI, Denver, Colo. 80218. Phone at 893-1149 (home) or 789-1869 (work). If you must rely on Moimtain Ben. please ranember that my name is leaUy (blush) HARRY. 
Scott Atwell 
SOO Continental Natl. Bank BIdg. 
Englewood, Colo. 80110 
70 WEDDING BELLS I must admit that the most important thing to happen to me in the past few months has been my marriage on Aug. 8. JACK CRAWFORD, our fflustrious class president, MIKE LYNCH, JOHN HANCOCK, BRUCE SHURTZ, LEW GENTINE, and his wife, Michde, and ED SMITH were all in attendance. Everyone bad a great time, especially me. Jack C. is attending Indiana U. Law School this fan and from ndiat I hear, he is having trouble finding a roommate. After three years with him I can under­stand why! If I weren't going Northwestern, I might join him. Mike L. is attending the U. of Virginia as a graduate political science student and John H. is in law school at Duke. Lew G. wiU soon finish the training program of the Arthur Andersen accounting firm and Bruce S. is, wen . . . he's seUing toilet seats. 
TOM FINK and JACK CRONIN are also at Northwestern; Tom is in the law school and Jack is in the MBA program. I saw Jack on the way home yesterday and presently he has a job at Maishan Field's in downtown Chicago since his classes don't start for a coujde of weeks. I almost forgot, JOE SHEEHY is also in medical school at Northwestern. 
TONY MCDONALD has been admitted to the U. of CaHforaia Medical School at Davis. He is one of the 52 students accepted from the I3S0 applicants. GENE RITZENTHALER has accepted a teaching assistant post at Arizona State U., to work on a master's degree. JOE DUGAN JR. and STEPHEN GAUMOND received six weeks of practical apidication in military leadership at the Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps' advanced summer camp at Ft. Riley, Kan. JIM ROLLINS JR. win assume a teaching-research assistantship at the U. of Pennsylvania in conjunction with his work toward his doctorate. 
Wi be happy to hear from any and an and if anyone is in the Chicago area, be sure to stop by. 
Curt DeQue Apt 318 655 Grace St Chicago, m. 60613 
Although few people think of their heart and blood vessels in terms of 
Life lines 
"fluid dynamics," this engineering 
discipline can help doctors take better blood samples, design better artificial heart valves and use the stethoscope to better advantage, according to Dr. Thomas J. Mueller, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing at ND. 
Mueller is supervising one graduate student and three students who re­ceived National Science Foundation Undergraduate Research Participa­tion Grants—each working on an important medical problem related to blood flow. They hope that the same experimental and theoretical techniques that have led to better aircraft and ship designs can also contribute to better medical care. Their projects include: 
—^A study of flow patterns through an artificial heart valve. Michael Doyle, a senior from Woodland Hills, Calif., has found that even the best artificial valves produce areas where the flow is not smooth. In the cavities behind the new valve areas of stagnation and reverse-flow develop, damaging the red cells and leading to the formation of clots. When the clots are later washed on through the artery, they may lodge in an organ or muscle, perhaps causing damage or strokes. 
—^A study of the fluid dynamics involved in taking a blood sample. William Piper, a senior at Tri-State College in Angola, explained that doctors must be extremely careful in handling blood samples, as the slightest shaking or bouncing can damage the delicate red cells, obscur­ing the results of the test. However, Piper said, many of the red cells may be damaged in the actual process of taking the sample, as the flow of blood into the needle is not smooth. 
The common practice. Piper pointed out, is for doctors to tilt the needle away from the flow direction in the vein. As the blood reverses its direction to enter the needle, regions of reverse-flow form at the edges, thereby damaging red cells. 
—A study of how to interpret the sounds heard through the stethoscope. Francis Underwood, a graduate student from West Helena, Ark., is studying the flow patterns which develop when two veins meet to form a larger vessel. In this region, little eddies or vortices may be formed, which produce the characteristic sound heard through the stethoscope. By correlating the pitch of this tone with the type of eddies, doctors can determine how much the vein is constricted. When the vessel becomes tightly packed with scales of choles­terol and other matter, the blood flow at such a junction becomes completely turbulent, producing random, loud noise in the stethoscope. 
Mark Galbraith, a senior from Glenview, 111., is looking at a similar situation in reverse—the branching of an artery, where blood flows from the main channel into two smaller channels. Galbraith has confirmed the suspicion that a small, separated flow region occurs at the junction, where waste material can build up and clot. He hopes that this study can offer some clues to the general theory of arterial clogging so neces­sary in understanding hardening of the arteries and strokes. 
Mueller expects to interest more students in bio-engineering, and is convinced that basic principles of fluid dynamics can play an important role in designing better artificial hearts, valves, and vessels, and in understanding the ways in which blood can be damaged. 
Three ND engineering students study flow patterns about an artificial heart valve as their instructor. Dr. Thomas J. Mueller, professor of aero­space and mechanical engineer­ing, takes notes. Left to right are Francis Underwood, Michael Doyle, Dr. Mueller, and Mark Galbraith. 
-.-« -'­

GRAB SCHOOLS present was NORB TOUSSAINT '40, ~ ' ' recovermg from a recent bnun tamor" operation, he will apprecute piayeis. Noib Jr IS a semor pruned student at ND. ",
BUSINESS Rev JAMES (Cypnan) FLANAGAN I am pleased to report that the new school OEM '63, Siena CoUege, LoudonviOe. NY., year is underway with 76 students entenng IS studying at Renssdaer Polytechmc 
the program..The veiy.sharp jump m ,..,...: 
Institute this academic year Sr AIJMA ; enrollment over the levels of the first three' 
ROSE GAFFNEY, SNJM '67, is mce­president of the College of Holy Names,^ years necessitated the addition of a complete Oakland, Cal. In nearby Hayirard, Srset offirst-yearsections: Section I is under SCHOLASTICA KENNARD CSC '57 athe direction of Drs. John J. Kennedy and director of studies at Moreau Hi ^ ScliooLFRANCIS A. YEANDEL'66 who are Sr. MARY MARINA KENNELLY BVMhandling the Workshop. The remainder of '59 is back teaching atMunddein OdkfeSection I's teaching team includes Profs. 
after a year of research at Loyola U inRay M. Powell, Donald N. Barrett (Soci­Chicago. CHARLES O'BOYLE '39 isology and Anthropology), ByungCho, and director of the Research laboratories ofHerbert Sim. Section II is under the the Great Westerii Sugar Co in Denverguiding hand of Dean Vincent R. Raymond TAD PATTON MS '50 (Ph D Texas U )who is handling the Workshop. His teachinjg has been prompted to Semor Research team includes Profs. Byung Cbo,-Jae H. 
Associate at the.Plastics ResearchCho, JAMES CULLATHER '40, and a Laboratory at.Esso Research and Engineer­three-man team from Psychology, Profe. 
ing Co. in Baytown, Texas MIKE 
John F. Santos, Bobby J. Farrow, and RONAYNE, '62 is the new chairman of Peter J. Naus, who are handling the Human the department of chemistry at Suifolk U Behavior course. in Boston. Sr. LORETTA (MICHAEL)
The newfirst-yearclass is not unlike SCHAFER SP '63 is teaching at Providence those that have gone before them except High School in Chicago in size. There is broad representation of all parts of the country and many schools. Rev. JAMES J. COWGILL, SJ , PhJ> 
Also, there is a good representation of '57, is the new dean of Seattle U graduate students from foreign countries including school, Seattle; Wash. He will remain the France, Belgium, Austria, Mexico, 
director of research:and institutioiial Venezuela, Brazil, Austrah'a, an Colombia. 
development 
Pursuant to the suggestions of many After receiving his doctorate in chemistry faculty members and also students, the at ND, Fr. Cowgill taught at Gonzaga U Finance course is being moved to tfie first and at ND before going to Seattle U
 m year (second semester), and the Cost 
1950. He returned to ND in 1951 as a Analysis course to the second year (first 
research fellow in chemistry and has been at Seattle U, since 1953
semester). The latter is being renamed "Managerial Control." The course in Legal Environment has been renamed "Public Bro. Columba Curran CSC Policy Toward Business" and is being ' Dept of Chemistry . re-based. A grading system using mid-points, NoUe Dame, Ind. 46556 4.0, 3.5, 3.0, 2.5, 2.0, 0.0, is being put into effect this semester. ENGLISH 
The MBA/JD program is in full swing August commencement made alumm with representatives in the first year pro­of 38 English graduate students In 
grams of both law and business. The Army : addition to the seven Ph D 's reported in Surgeon General's office has sent two new the last issue, the master's degree was students to the program while the Air conferred on JOSEPH F BALCONI. Sr 
Force has sent an equivalent number. The 
ELEANOR MARIE BALTZ, OWEN E. second year teaching team (one section) is 
BRADY; EDWARD J. BRESLIN, Rev EDWARD B. CAHILL; PAULA Kunder the direction of Prof. Frederick CLARK; Sr. MARY CANICE CORBETT,W: Dow and includes Profs. William P." 
Sr. NANCY CECILE COSGRIFF,Trubac, Paul F. Conway, William P. 
VICTOR R. DE VINCENZO, SrSexton and Yusaku Furuhashi. 
THERESA B.DRAGO; SHEILA FINAN, LORRAINE GORDON; JAMES R. HALL,John R. Malone MARGARET K. HOVER, THOMAS JGraduate School of Business ­KAK; MICHAEL P. KELLY, JOHN R.
Notre Dame Ind. 46656 KING; Sr: AGNES LEONARD KNOBBS, Sr. VERONICA MARIE KOPERSKI,
CHEMISTRY 
LAWRENCE F. KRUSE, Rev PAUL L 
Reilly lecturers for the fall semester include LAUZON; Mrs: MARGARET MURRAY Prof. Emmanuel Vogel, U. of Colopie,'; MAN; CAROL J. MARTIN, Sr MARY in September, Prof. Daryle H. Busch, LAWRENCE McBRIDE, Sr ELLEN Ohio State U., Nov. 2-6, and Prof. John MOONEY; SUZANNE M MORGAN,
C. Polanyi, U. of Toronto, Nov. 30-Dec. 4. Sr. CATHERINE O'LEARY. Sr MARY ' The following recently coinpleted the BERNARD RAPINE; Sr MARIE requirements for the Ph.D.: GEORGE C. IRENE SCHNEIDER; JOAN M WYLIE,
ABELL; ALOKE CHATTERJEE, and MICHAEL C.ZELENSKI Con­
LawienceRadiation Laboratory, Berkeley, gratulations, b«5t wishes, and wdcome 
Cal.;:JOHN A. GONTARZ, Imperial Chemical Co., Boston; DANIEL A. I am happy to report Hews about three KLEIER, Woodrow Wilson FeUow, alumni from past summers. Fr WILLIAM 
teaching at Virginia State College, Peters­HENKEL, M.A. '69, has ceased teachmgburg Va.; PAUL B. MERKEL. P<Mt-in the Chicago seminary and is at Samt . doctoring at the U. of California' at Patricia's pai ^ in Hickory Hills, 111 AlongRiverside as is GEORGE R. MEYER at with his regular duties,' he reports that he Ohio State U. and JOSEPH L. -is chairman of a group wniing a series THOMAS at U. of Michigaii at Ann -of essays about; the future of the Chuidi 
.Arbor. \There was a large'turnout for the which will, hopefully^.receive book-ND social hour at the ACS meeting in ' pubUcation.' Sr.M.' KATHLEEN Chicago in September. Among those -HEAVILL,MJ\ . '57, first president of the 
"iiiiiiiMif !• riiiaiirjf'Tf^r r>Tiii rfff 
Dtaimji, icnuicd^hcr MS . AM I € ^ 
ni oompmlne'hliialiiii,^9w $eat'ttb^^^^^ 
I96M7 
CofaynbuhFeb ^Utowdip^aad kat,ti^i^^M $ 
coaraes • Bodm iaufrntuie MlmtMi^^^:^ 
City Ctalefe m Nnr^roA: Her rMkaOout^U^M^, 
inchide aeica vttck»'om%hali'mimu^m':^'=h^^^ 

the new AftC«»JBB '.•cfdo^^^^^^^^^ 
m the October 1910 Comtulkiit MeHtm.-^ 
^^ 
Clasaes fot ttelCiB aewMer beiM;;Sept'-..-!^,i-£^^ 9, with tffanimtafJOO padnaletfadeals 'h'i.^-^-4^ tn teaieaee. msibiaaii li'new staamls,,At -JV'^T-^ faculty coamatiee'diaaed by FraC^JiflMs -^^J%/S~'^.>J' Domftatf, dnector'of fiadnate stodK*. n cooadenaK levn u of die doctoral "< 't s -'^
^^^m
pcofram. Stodeats dected two upnnma^jy %'»^^ 
ttves to participate in these OaeamtomT^ ^ ^"t--^ ^'" 
After a year's leave oC absence Ttei.^^'p^^' 7 JTc i 
Edward Vasia has returned to tending^^ iy-^JJl<­
Hie only addmoa to the faculty B^doctoral -^ -^X^ :i / 
candidale James BIcKenzie wbo^wiH serve -• ^ v c *^» 
as an instructor, lb s year die dtiianitat 1,'-^s=i ^^v , 
has 260 uodefiradnate (jumor and sennr) ^ ;??'>('' 
majors, an mciease OTer^l969-70.^niof ^ * 
Wayne Booth of the U^ of Ckcaaa » \ KT 
scheduled to ddtver die Ward-IlnDipB < -" 
Lectures next Afai ^ , -*" -^ 
Apcdofies to an concerned tot die'''"-?' fracturing of the Joly-Aiigust cohonn.^ '^-. Tbose who glanced imder "Htttory" (oa -< •-"<•=?.^f^ p 43) dooovered additional news aboot English aluimn dieie. 'i^ 4 
Robert M Slabey 
English Department 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
<^'s> 
— — •(•
msimnr '--'•-•'^ 
If there is any lesson for readers to deme 
from this cdmnn it a that rf you wsh to be 
mentioned you should wnte to iiie.'>-la 
July I lecetved a letter from R(nERT^^< 
JONES informing me that I had mcor--J --"A 
reedyreportedlam as havmg been'~at La*^ '^'• 
Salle He IS, m fact, alive and wdl at' ^ i-.' • 
Fotdham, and save for an occasiaad-> 
student strike at uxal anon, be ooasideis 
hfe to be placid w the daikest Broaz. Bob 
received a giant from the AnencaB f-t 
Philosophical SoCMty m Oe fdl of 1969 to 
complete teseatch'oa WOlmm Duer,'a * '^ 
Fedodst q^ecnlator and pohnaan, aome-^ 
of whose activities he had earlier reooided * 
m h s doctord dteeitation. Bob has abo 
'S8
done an Amencan Prablem^Stodty, The ^ Formation of Ae CotatOiUion, for Holt,*^ Rindiart * Winston. He "coafidendy ~ :> _ awaits its adoptun by'aD teachers who -i:: ^ 
m
J^s

read the ootrnnn. ^ ^ " " " 'r 
SISTER M. FRANCIS ADELE ^ ''' ^ " % GORMAN O.S.F. wntes to let me kaow^ _'-, that whSe her aOegiance^to Women's'Lfli ^ i B only pnmwmal as yershe-eiveGts more-^ attention to be paid to Hsioiy afammae ~^^ " ^ hencefoith.^ Soter has not been vegetating ^ Z*' suce leaving ND m 1962. She a dnoman'^ ^ ^ of die DmsMB of ISsloiy'aad Soaal'.. -^ \ "j .'4'*?-*. Soeace at Cor Ladrt^Aagds CtaOege m' -^ ­Glee Riddfe, ra.. die andMir of 20 aitKles^~ 
m sdwlariy jaaraab. arduvot for her n ^' ^^-l'-^^''M-GoagiciitioB, iccotdMK sectetaiy oC fte >» iV, ^''£tzk Peunsyhama^Coonca for the^Sood ^ fj^^ Z'-'^'^J^f StndNs, aa ofioer of the steenw cananrtlee>'t.<' , ''^t^^^^ of CEF Sster lavolvemeat. a niendier<:arj:~-^^^^-Jf^^ die steem« coanttee oC the'CaidMrs^'^^-fJ:^ CtaimmHHa oa Hnmaa l(e]ai>ias.-^'^''^i^\^,'^fi member of die pwfcssioad''Tdatwas yH^jT"^'^ V^ j 
4'r 

committee of PCSS, and state coordinator 
for NEP and KGP. Sister Adele also notes 
that she uses my book in her classes—clear 
evidence of exceptional discernment and 
wisdom. At the annual convention of the 
History Teachers' Assn., held this year at 
ND on July 11, I was pleased to see some 

alumni again: \V. MARQUIS ANDERSON, 
now at Penn High School in Mishawaka; 
ROBERT CLEMENTS, chairman of the 
Department of Social Studies at Central 
Junior High in South Bend and secretary-
treasurer of the History Teachers' Assn.; 

and GILBERT CIPRIANO, who is teaching 
Social Studies at LaSalle High School in 
South Bend. 
REV. THOMAS BLANTZ C.S.C. was 
promoted lo the position of vice-president 
for student affairs during the summer. 
Thus, temporarily at least, we have lost 

one of the ablest and most popular teachers 
in the department. 
Bernard Norling 
History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW SCHOOL 
The Law School enrolled its largest 
freshman class of 202 on Sept. 1. This 
brings the school's population to 431. The 
class represented 106 colleges and 
universities. 36 states and three foreign 
countries. Twenty-six were Vietnam war 
veterans, with 18 minority students and 
22 women. 
Twenty-five second-year students have 
left for London where they will study with 
the University College Law Faculty. 
Dean Lawless participated in a conference on the English Evidence Act at the University of Oxford. 
Prof. Frank Beytagh addressed the St. Joseph County Bar Ass'n on the Constitution and lawyers. 
Prof. Dave Link greeted Swedish judges in Chicago concerning computer applications to court systems. He will also address the Texarkana Bar Assn. in Fayetteville, Ark., on computers and law practice. 
Prof. Ed Murphy participated in a conference in Canada on the predict­ability value of the Law School Admission Test. 
Father Bill Lewers will be assisting in hearings to be conducted in Indianapolis by the Indiana Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. 
Prof. Charlie Rice addressed the California Ass'n of Gynecologists in Los Angeles on the abortion problem. 
Prof. Mike Mclntire is coordinating a joint Canadian-American conference on water pollution. 
Prof. Jack Broderick was elected vice-president of the local Phi Beta Kappa Chapter and was appointed to the police training task force of the Northern Indiana Criminal Justice Planning Agency. 
Dean Lawless and Assistant Dean Les Foschio attended the Indiana State Judges Conference in Indianapolis. 
Alumnus Dan Webber, '61, authored "A Look at Lineups" in Volume 49 of the Michigan State Bar Journal, July, 1970. 
Alumnus Ed Osowski, '65, opened a new law office at 30 N. LaSalle SL, Suite 1329, Chicago. 
Leslie G. Foschio Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS 
The number ot our Physics Ph.D. alumni now totals 161. The latest addition to your ranks, according to the August 1970 Commencement Exercise Bulletin, are VINCENT P. COLETTA (theoretical physics), ANTHONY M. DESIDERIO (theoretical physics), JOHN F. GOEHL (theoreU'cal physics), JOEL T. KLOPCIC (nuclear physics), and CARL J. PAPERIELLO (nuclear spectroscopy). Vince Coletta went to Loyola U. (Los Angeles), Tony Desiderio has a post­doctoral research position in the Radiation Lab here at ND, John Goehl went to Villanova U., Terry Klopcic into military service for a couple of years (current address, 6204C Baker Circle, Edgewood, Md. 21040), and Carl Paperiello accepted a position with the New York State Department of Public Health. 
PAUL QUINN '69 (nuclear physics) was in the Mathematics Research BIdg. at the U. of Wisconsin (Madison) during the recent very destructive bombing of that building. Paul holds a postdoctoral research associateship in Physics at Wisconsin. His injuries, some cuts, were not serious. 
Brother MARK GUTTMANN, F.S.C. '62 (nuclear spectroscopy) — see also column for December 1968-January 1969 issue — is coauthor of a very interesting new textbook on optics published by Addison-Wesley. The new textbook, "States, Waves and Photons: A Modem Introduction to Light," introduces the photon as a quantum mechanical system, and uses a matrix approach to geometric optics. Brother Mark's coauthor is JOSEPH W. SIMMONS, fonner ND undergraduate physics major. Joe received his B.S. in Physics from ND in 1955. He also took part of his graduate education in physics at ND. According to President Hesburgh's Newsletter for September, Dr. JOSEPH R. FELDMEIER '42 (nuclear physics) has been appointed a member of ND's Advisory Council for Science. Joe is vice-president and director of the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia. (See also column for March-1968-April issue.) 
Now for a few more names, addresses, and accounts of activities of some of our old-timers. THOMAS A. WEBER '61 (theoretical physics), wife Gretchen, and four children, Elizabeth Ann, Catherine Siena, Mary Beatrice and Madeleine Clare, live at 430 Lynn Ave., Ames, la. 50010. After receiving his Ph.D. from ND, Tom joined the faculty of the Department of Physics at Iowa State U. (Ames) as an instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, and to associate professor in 1965. I'll bet Tom and Gretchen would like to hear from some of their former ND acquaintances. CHARLES F. SCHWERDTFEGER '61 (nuclear spectroscopy), wife Elizabeth, and two children, Annette and Denise, live at 3692 W. 36th Ave., Vancouver 13, British Columbia, Canada. After acquiring his Ph.D., Charlie spent the 1961-62 academic year in Switzerland as a research associate at the U. of Basel. This was followed by a similar appointment for the 1962-63 academic year at Indiana U., Bloomington. Since July 1963, Charlie has been a member of the faculty of the Department of Physics at the U. of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, where he currently holds the rank of associate professor. 
That's all for this time, except for a 
call to check in with your columnist and supply him with up-to-date news, addresses and vital statistics. 
Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY 
The Summer Session ends and the annual exodus begins. This is a favored time for faculty vacations, for some needed peace and quiet before the ASA Convention and the opening of the school year. Summer students return to their usual haunts, while students from the regular academic year taking summer courses join with the staff in girding themselves for the fall semester. Probably the busiest persons in the department are those about to take leave of student status to become fledgling members of the profession. Most of them, besides making preparations to move to newly acquired teaching positions elsewhere, are working at forced draft on doctoral dissertations. The status differentials between the doctoral candidate and the Ph.D. are well known to everyone. For their efforts, they are consoled by the prospect of leaving Notre Dame with no unfulfilled prerequisite hanging over their heads. Possibly there is even greater consolation found in the promise of finally being salaried after struggling along for years on the stipend provided by an assistantship or fellowship. And let us not forget the relief this may occasion for the many working wives who helped make possible the attainment of an advanced degree. 
Several of our finest products will be leaving the sheltered, uterine-like life of graduate school, participant-observers in the birth of their own professional careers in the cruel hard world of academia. DON CONRAD, an NIMH Fellow for the past three years, will resume the teaching position he previously held at nearby Bethel College. BOB DUFl' will join the sociology staff at Indiana U.-Souih Bend, where he will find in relative abundance two vitally important items which in his estimation were far too scarce at Notre Dame — women and money. Spain's gift to American sociology, CESAR HERNANDEZ, will take a teaching post at Kansas University. IRA HUTCHISON will head for Tallahassee and a teaching job at Florida State U., while MIKE McKEE will soon be en route to Hershey, Pa., to augment the staff of the Pennsylvania State University Medical Center. The im'mitable and irrepressible MARIO RENZI, leader of the grad student body's Cosa Nostra cell and obsessive-compulsive Cub fan, departs for Hiram College on the outskirts of Cleveland. Wrigley Field will be a duller place without one of its original "bleacher bums," and the department will somehow never be the same without him. JEAN CONLEY and JOE SIMONl have signed on with ND's own Urban Studies staff. JIM STEWART wiU spend at least the next few years with the department of sociology at St. Olaf s College in Northfield, Minn. SR. MARY MARGARET ZAENGLEIN will report for teaching duty in Michigan State's Department of Social Studies. She and Jim are among the fortunate ones in the Diaspora who have had their dissertations accepted already. 

Fall will also find one of the department's 
and ND's most steadfast frienib and 
illustrious graduates no longer in the 
South Bend area. CORDON J. DIRENZO 'win.shift from In(fianaU.-South.Bend to 
the U. of Delaware wbere he mil hold 
a full professorship and assuine control of 
the graduate program. We. wish Gordie ­
and his wife, Mary, well, and we share 
their excitement over their'tiew locale and 
the October debut of their firstborn. 
CLUBS 
BOSTON 
The freshman sendoff held in late summer 
was well attended. JACK KARLE '56 
was chairman this year. John Gillis/ 
72, president of the New England Club, 
and JOHN MROZ 70 both spoke on life at 
NO for the benefit of the new freshmen, 
emphasizing changes in student life, spirit 
and friendships, and welcomed them as 
new members of the Notre Dame family. 
ND night at Suffolk Downs will be held 
Oct 23. Co-chairmen GEORGE WH^ 
LIAMS '62 and MIKE OTOOLE '55 are 
looking for a large turnout and some big . 
winners. 
Mike OTooIe '55 
Secretary 
BUFFALO 
The Buffalo Oub held its annual freshman sendoff on Aug. 24. Twenty-four freshmen attended with their parents and were given upperclassmen's views of the religious, academic, athletic. Sophomore Year Abroad, and social programs at the University. The meeting was ably put together by BILL O'CONNOR. On Aug. 26, 40 of the area's finest golfers gathered under the tutelage of MAURICE QUINN at the annual golf outing at Beaver Island State Park Golf Course. Dinner, awards and prizes followed the match. 
The general meeting on Sept 16 featured a timely slide presentation by JAMES T. CLAUSS, "A Trip to the Middle East" The club was then addressed by Dr. J. . Edward Cuddy, candidate for Congress from the 40th Congressional District Many crucial national issues were discussed. The meeting was chaired by Club President HENRY BURNS, Jr., at the meeUng place provided through the generosity of Director JOHN LaDUCA. In the near future the club will sponsor a night with Buffalo's newest professional team, the basketball "Braves," and a night at the Buffalo Philharmom'c. 
Marvin J. LaHood '58 
CHICAGO 
The Drake Hotel was the site of the first big upset of the college football season. As cheering alumni from Notre Dame and Northwestern hurled taunts at each other, both sides submitted menus to three judges : in a culinary contest I»nor to the Notre • Dame-Northwestern football game, Sept 19. The Fighting Irish were represented by JOHNNY LATTNER, former Ail-American 
DR..WILLIAM.T. tn j '52 aiadDr.^v?,-Artbur T. Rubel,,.prbfesson; oif sociology^<;i> and anthropolo^^ have offered,q^t^^ViKi­general suggestions to farnily-pIattniiVtl'v^.T programs in the final.repoit^of.theirVo'H.l/ two-year study called, "The CebuFaoOyf.; Health ProjecC spoieored tty the Aceacy; for International DeveloproentT-TTtey-H;:??-;• believe that their research on the•;-. : -;' soci(vculturaI: factors underlying leproducr; tive behavior of inhabitants ofCelm ;-.t";':v" 
halfback and restaurateur,'but the Vntd-^ --•. cals'walked off with the $2,000 prize and the' Irish had to settle for $1,000.- ;• • : • . i. 
The ND aub, of Chicago Kniite Rockne Memorial Awards duuxr.wiQ.be .; held Dec. 14 and will feature Ara •.' Parseghian and the stars of the 1970: Fighting Irish. The master of ceremonies ,: will be Brent Musburger of WBBM-TVi . The dinner will be highlighted by-the.:, appearance of FRANK LEAHY who wOI have been inducted into the Football.Hall of Fame on Dec 8. Many other former V:'­Irish players and sports personifies will'. be in attendance to join in ofTeringlheir tributes to Coach I.eahy. The Rockne Awards to the outstanding student-;­athletes in the Cathoh'c, Public and Suburban leagues will be presented. Ticket reservations may be made by calling AN3-6063. 
William E. Cahill, Jr. '58 
ClNCINNA-n 
The Club held its annual freshman arid 
father picnic on Sept 1, at Maple Ridge 
Lodge in Mt .Airy Forest Due to the hard 
work of TIM SCHILLING '69, and TOM 
HOCK '69, the picnic was a fine success. 
JIM BOLGER, a former Chicago Cub, was 
on hand due to the fact that his son Tom 
will be a freshman this year, and will be 
on the freshman football team. 
PAUL F. KELLEY '54 led his alumni Softball team to a decisive victory over ' the students. Paul was outstanding on the mound, and was given fine support' by teammates MIKE BURKE'65, JOE ROUSE '66, JOHN OVERMANN "67, and TOM WHALEN. Perhaps the greatest help came from the umjare JACK LYNCH '63. 
After dinner everyone enjoyed the 1966 Notre Dame Football Higtdights film of ' the National Championship year. The picm'c drew from such faraway places as Dayton, as JOHN S. (JACK) MULVIHILL JR. '58 drove the 60 miles to see that all the beer was consumed. 
Tom Eagen '66 
CLEVELAND 
We elected new officers in June as follows:: 
PATRICK J. CANNON '55—president; 
FRED W. FRIEND '50—vice president; 
JOSEPH BRYAN '61—secretary and 
NICK DeVITO '63—treasurer. 
This took place at a general business meeting in the Cleveland Hotel where our. outgoing President TOM CORRIGAN gave his swan song, narrating the accomplishments of the last Senate meeting. His candid, talk about parietal hours and other sictivities on campus had all of us' reapplying for the' j oncoming freshman term. :;'^ . ;.: 
On Aug. 2, we had our annual fainiy.vr:; 
: 'picnic.-atlealed JvJSSOs- •bdiit-,25:.-of;.i*a«£rf-;'^Sc?»S?f;;f-S% 
-'aamiiibomJ>mpoik .UfCfcairBHiTJIIfJjiivKJ-iSisJf5g.iS| 
.-CANNTt^Sr: iSr*^*Wii«oii«M«^«qii*efe3­-" with/'Hie ••.hdp '.oftCBfarbuf;'AaOtrntifyiliUk,' -'ig|£"?'^iS§S-S 
, honbn-us.-'evay: 3w;'wMi'Jtfiei-dapoiili6u.<J:-JH->:ag|y^^ theisroiiMis iad IWMMIBH pboL St. Hair's ^., ~> \ 
•
 Vaptfi the fidd m aa nadennler polo ^i matdi but we came back stroog in aa^ , , J „ 

•ftctnooa
 basebiA taaie^ cnnhaig a team . of beatniks with bau on the inady santdi . hittii« of JIM RODGEKS '30 


In aB, It was aaoOer sncoessfiil lamtf outiiiK staitmf widi Father CLARENCE J. CHAMBERS saymc the Man at noon and 
. endinc with JACK DOYLEs '44 HmOs -^ ^ ' cartinc booie aU the conpebtiTe game prize. Hats off to Jim Canny and the St Mary's conumttee who made all the r arrantemenls. ^ ^ 
; One feUow «dio didnt make the pmic ' ^ DENNIS BUTLER '61 who osuaBly bnnp an the glad bacs to ths aSair, had to stay home and study for die recent bar exam in which he was successftaL Denny has been an admiiustratiTe aide to the chief jnstioe of our muniapal court for some five years now and we wish hun luck m ha ensnuK ' 
' practice of the law. 
Patrick J Cannon '55 
DALLAS 
The "Back To Sdioal Smoker" was hdd Aug^ 28 here m DaBas. A larger turnout heard LARRY MOSSER 70. former pres­ident of the Tens aub. teO about campus hfe today and the Uanetsity's involvement m last spring's college strike movement JIM DENIG '66 served as chairman ct the ngfat's activities. 
. Sx freshmen ennrikd at the Umveisity this year. Eadi man represented a different high sdiool m our area. Notre Dame's exposure seems to be growing ui the DaUas/Fbrt Worth area and chib president. J<XIN R(»(AN '56 attramtes a good deal of tins lecogmtion to oor high school tecnntiag committee. 
FRANK CROWLEY '44. '47 s busHy campaigning for the U. S Cbngicstional dection ths fidL He s luanmg on the Republican tKket and » bong hdped by many d the dub's meirtbeis. 
Chick Martm '59 
DAYTONSnUN^nELD On Aug. 20^ the ND Cliib of Dayton Rumored its annual freshaian sendoff at-the Dayton Cautif Chib for new students at both ND and SMC. JAMES 
: V. GIBBONS '53. duedor of special pn^ecis at the Umversiiy, pnaenled aa euertamnig and wftwmatiw pKtaie ci­
- what B takn« place on Ike ND campus to die gathenag of anmnimatdy 3S peiions. In addrtaw to the aewiy admrtled. 
..A^ 

freshmen, the crowd included upperclass­
men at both ND and SMC, parents and 
alumni. As in the past, a lively question­
and-answer session followed Gibbons' 
talk, and covered a wide range of topics. 
One of the club's favorite annual 

functions, the golf outing and picnic, was 
held on Aug. 27, at the Walnut Grove 

Country Club. Congratulations to FRANK 
SCHILLO '55, chairman of this very 

successful venture. Twenty golfers com­
peted for the three trophies awarded 

annually by the club, and 45 alumni were 
on hand for the steak-fry following the 
rounds of golf. The trophies were cap­
tured by JOHN F. O'BRIEN '41, low 
net; HUGH E. WALL JR. '36L; low 

gross; and THOMAS E. LANDGREN '49, 
low putts. The trophy for low gross score 
was awarded to Wall after he bested 
O'Brien and Landgren on the first hole 

of a pressure-packed sudden death playoff 
before an enthusiastic gallery of club 
members. 

At the business portion of the meeting before the steak-fry, the club members unanimously adopted a new constitution for the club, patterned very closely after the Model Club Constitution recommended by the ND Alumni Assn. In accordance with this constitution, eight trustees were elected to the board of trustees: PAUL LAMMERS '49 and BOB HOLLENCAMP 
•49 (one year); BOB REMM '58 and JACK BARSTOW '65 (two years); PETE HACKETT '59 and JOHN TEHAN '57 (three years); and JIM BRITT '53 and RON HENNE '57 (four years). In addition, club officers were chosen for the coming year: President, BILL McGUIRE '65; vice-presidents, JOHN D. O'BRIEN '66 and BUD SEALL '68L; secretary, JIM IRETON '66 and treasurer, JOHN TEHAN '57. As a final item of business, ND blazers were presented to Jim Britt and Ron Henne, the two most recent past presidents of the club, in special recognition of their efforts in leading the club to the No. 1 standing among all ND clubs in SUMMA. BRIAN REGAN '61, regional director of development for ND, lauded the efforts of the club in achieving the top position in SUMMA and expressed the University's appreciation for the club's strong support. 
As a convenience for club members, Vice-President O'Brien has agreed to act as a clearinghouse for ND football tickets. Those alumni in the area interested in buying, selling or exchanging game tickets should contact John at 461-5620 between 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. In con­nection with the national telecast of the ND-Missouri game, plans are being for­mulated for a stag party for club members and friends who enjoy viewing the Irish in the company of other rabid ND fans. 
William Seall '68L 
DETROIT 

On Sept 10, JIM COLOSIMO '59 shared 
the annual fall party at the Boxford Inn. 
Approximately 80 members were in 
attendance to hear Lefty Smith tell of ND's progress and ambitions in hockey, 

and JOE DOYLE tell of the prospects for 
the upcoming football season. BURT CUENY gave a brief talk on the victory party idanned for Oct. 3 at the Holiday Inn following the Michigan State-ND game in East Lansing. Arrangements for a bus ride to and from the game were made, with a cocktail party following. 
On Aug. 14, the board of directois and chairmen met aboard MARC VERBIESTs ship. The Helene. Some 34 people {dus crew were in attendance to enjoy meals, drinks and sunshine on a trip up to Lake Huron and back. 
Arthur W. Shannon '59 
FLINT 

The Notre Dame Oub of Flint sponsored 
the annual football trip — Army vs. 
Notre Dame. This fall event is one of the 
highlights of the club's activities, and 
was open to club members, families, and 
friends. Approiumately 250 persons made 
the trip to ND stadium via the Grand 
Trunk Railroad. 
PAUL HUGHES was chairman of the excursion assisted by BILL MINARDO, HARRY McARA, and Melinda Meranda. 
William F. Minardo '32 
GREATER MIAMI The ND Club of Greater Miami has been fairly active over the summer season. Tile club's annual picnic was held Aug. 8. DICK GORMAN, '57, and JIM SWEENY, '57, arranged the affair. The highlight of the afternoon was the Softball game. The team, captained by DICK RUPP, '56, defeated ED HANLVs, '41, team. I. L PROBST, '26, handled the umpiring as usual. The club also spon­sored its annual back-to-school dinner, Aug. 25. SPARKY THORNTON'S, '50, son, John, a junior at Notre Dame, helped to organize the dinner. Approximately 15 students and 10 freshmen and their parents attended. 
The club has already started plans for the 1971 ND-Miami game. More details on this will follow. 
Charies P. Sacher '61 
HARRISBURG The Annual Universal ND Night was observed on April 23 at the Colonial Country Club in Harrisburg. Club Presi­dent, JOE ELLAM, made arrangements for an outstanding evening. Guest speakers were Lt. Gov. RAY BRODERICK and Rev. Charies E. Sheedy, CSC. It might be noted that Broderick is the Republican candidate for governor of Petinsylvania. 
Our initial information night in May was a success. We are happy to note that 22 area boys will enter the Class of 74 at ND in September. 
On Aug. 7 more than 100 alumni, students and friends of the University gathered at the Harrisburg K of C to hear Coaches JOE YONTD and TOM PAGNA review the prospects for the 
•70 season. Films of the Cotton Bowl also highh'ghted this 7th annual ND Sports Night. 
We are looking forward to the dub trip to the Purdue game in September. Our active membership has reached 100 with the arrivals of GEORGE BLACKMORE, JOHN MOIR, GERRY SHEA and DAVE CONNELL. 
Ernie Buckley *53 
KANSAS CITY The freshman send-off dinner was hdd at the Plaza III Restaurant on Aug. 2S. The incoming freshmen and their fathers were 
treated to dinner and an inspiring talk 
by Steve Metzler 71. JOHN WHITAKER 
'61 and TOM DeCOURSEY '65 were co-
chairmen of the evening. The Notre Dame 
Auxiliaiy held its annual cocktail party 
on SepL 19 at the home of Mrs. FRANK 
McGEE. In the past, this party has been 
one of the highlights of the local ND 
calendar, and this year was no exception. 
The officers of the ND Club of Kansas 
City are in the process of updating our 
currently outdated roster and mailing list. 
Anyone who is not receiving club mailings 
is asked to get in contact with us as 
soon as possible so that we may remedy 
the situation. 
Art Donnelly '68 
MAINE 
The ND Club of Maine is widely scattered 
and few in number, but we did have an 
annual summer meeting at the summer 
home of JOE DOYLE '42 in Auburn, 
Maine, on September 9. At this meeting 
we announced that the ND Scholarship 
Fund was enriched by over $1,000 due 
to the band concert which was held in 
April. Our alumni group also passed on 
to the United Fund of Aubum-Lewiston, 
Maine, $600 as their share of the com­
bined effort. Our scholarship fund is quite 
solvent at the moment and we are pass­
ing out three additional scholarships this 
year to Kevin Muse '73, Joseph DeLois 
•73, and Richard McLoy, Jr. 73, aU of whom will share in a $500 each loan which will be repaid without interest sometime when possible after graduation. 
The officers who have served from 1969-70 were re-elected for a second term through 1971. They are: JOSEPH D. DOYLE '42, President; JOHN B. BELIVEAU '59, VP; DANA DeVOE '59, Treasurer; and RAYMOND A. GEIGER '32, Secretary. Among those in attendance were Doyle, TONY SILVA '56, DeLois, Geiger, MIKE SALTER '57, BeUveau and the father of NORMAND LAUREN­DEAU '66, Maurice Laurendeau. Plans are being made for a Christmas dance to include the students at the University. 
It was noted that the quality of boys from Lewiston and Auburn, Maine, is exceptional with each one registering over 3.4 on the academic meter. And may I tip my hat that son, Gene, had a 4.0 average last semester. 
This fall will see your secretary around the country on radio and TV promoting the Farmer's Almanac. Keep your eyes on the TV screen or your ears to the radio and who knows, you may tune him in. 
Ray Geiger '32 
NEW ORLEANS 
With the advent of fall and the football season, the activities of the New Orleans alumni increased. The annual freshman sendoff held at the Governor House Motor Hotel on Aug. 27 was a smashing success. The cocktail party was held in conjunction with the local St. Mary's alumnae. The ND freshmen in attendance, Francis J. Demarest, III, 74, Gerald 
R. KcUer, 74, Theodore J. Cusman, III, 74, Ralph V. Seep, '74, and Allen J. Hamilton, 74, enjoyed meeting their comrades from across the highway. 
Next on the calendar was the Missouri 

game TV Party at 1:00 p.m. on Oct 17 in the Grand Ballroom of the Bourbon Orleans Hotel. A buffet was served prior to the kickofi and an open bar available after the game. On Nov. 21, the local alumni will return to South Bend for the ND-LSU game. Headquarters will be established in the Ramada Inn. We are looking to the Irish team to equal our boasts and bets here in LSU country. 
The club continues to hold its monthly luncheon meetings at noon in Kolb's Restaurant. Alumni in New Orleans on the first Wednesday of the month are invited and encouraged to attend. 
Leon J. Reymond, Jr. '64 
NEW YORK 
Plan now for the Communion dinner, Dec. 8, at the Advertising Club, Park Ave. at 35th St. The Advertising Qub is within easy walking distance of both Penn and Grand Central Stations, as well as several subway lines. JIM GRIFFIN '47 is chairing this important spiritual and social event. JOE HUIZENGA '46, manager of the Advertising Club, has promised us a superb dinner after Mass. A distinguished speaker will address the gathering. More details to come in a club mailing. 
Many of us enjoyed the kick-off meeting, Sept. 16, at the Statler Hilton. In addition to our usual cast of local sports figures, other luminaries included EDWARD W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE, director of athletics, and JOHNNY DEE, head basketball coach. West Point and the Naval Academy were also represented. TOM CONROY '63 and GORDON FORESTER '47, assisted by BILL FALLON '37, were co-chairmen of this event Our congratulations and thanks to BUD MULVEY '51 on our successful Navy game trip. This exciting event has been enjoyed by many of us over the years. 
All graduates in our club area have received a dues notice. If you have not as yet remitted, please make this small expression of confidence in our University and club. Membership entitles you to a free copy of our all-new 1971 New York Alumni Directory (cost to non-members, $10) and reduced prices and preferential treatment for other club events. In addition, your dues payment plus profits on some of our events provide the money to support our scholarship fund. New arrivals in the club area of the City of New York, Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Putnam, and Rockland counties should call the club office at 420 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017, 212-685­4254, so that we may put you on our mailing list and membership roster. Any member desiring participation in assisting the club and making an active contribution, please give us a call. 
Paul T. Smith '60 
PEORIA 
On July 1, at the Pabst Brewery hospi­tality room, the club elected officers for the current year. Chosen were JERRY HIGGINS '56, prexy, JOHN PUSEY '65 (Law '68), V-P, BOB WOM­BACHER '59, treasurer, and MIKE RYAN Law '64, secretary. We watched the filmed highlights of last year's football season and had Phil Gustaffson, offensive 
tackle candidate, explain prospects for 
the coming season. A new twist gave our 
annual student back-to-school dinner 
the most active audience participation 
event in many years of the Peoria area 
Notre Dame Club. 
Our guest speakers were two current 
undergraduates, Chris Putman and 
Jerry McShane and they used seven 
pertinent campus topics to bring out 
many questions and much thought for 
the alumni and parents in attendance 
including coeducation, racial mixture of 
students, last spring's tensions and actions, 
study habits and requirements, etc. 
Two of JOHNNY DEE's newest basket­ball players joined us: Gary Novak from LaSalle and Ken Wolbeck from Peoria. Loren Brown, the sports director of Channel 19, and Ron Patterson, who has led Peoria Spaulding Irish to two straight State Tourney appearances, joined the 40 other Notre Damers at the Heritage House Restaurant 
Jerry H. Higgins '56 and Michael Ryan L'64 
RHODE ISLAND 
AND SOUTHEASTERN 
MASSACHUSETTS 
About 90 persons attended the annual 
going-away dinner of the ND Club of 
Rhode Island and Southeastern Massa­
chusetts, held Aug. 25 in honor of 12 
young men and one young lady who are 
beginning their freshman year at ND and 
SMC. 

JIM CONLON, '65, club president, was in charge of the highly successful dinner at the Ramada Inn in Seekonk. 
Appropriately enough on the eve of Woman's Liberation Day, the discussion got around to the subject of ND becoming a coeducational institution. 
Jack Regan, a senior from Provi­dence, and Bob Hall, a junior from Pawtucket spoke in favor of co-ed status. JIM MURPHY,. '49, gave a persuasive speech in favor of the traditional all-male status, saying that coeducation would bring benefits but also would deprive the school of some of its uniqueness. 
FRANK CONFORTI, '43, and Chief Justice Edward Callogly of the Rhode Island Family Court added their support for Jim's position and JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, '34, lightened tWngs up with a poem about the tribulation of a ND man. 
The freshmen honored were Mark F. Pittman, Dennis C. Lozzi, Jr., John H. Flynn, Daniel P. Baker, Thomas A. Galib, Thomas J. Conway, Gary Paimone, Barry M. Ethier, John W. Scibak, Thomas 
M. Santanello, John P. Gallogly and Thomas E. Keegan. 
Linda McMahon, the daughter of ANDY McMAHON, '35, wiU be the area's representative in the St Mary's Class of 1974. 
The club's new officers, JIM CONLON, MIKE MONTI, '59, vice-president BERNIE McMAHON, '65, treasurer, and BOB CHIAPPINELLI, '62, secre­tary, were seated at the head table along vrith the Rev. ROBERT NEWBOLD, the club's man of the year. 
Bob Chiappinelli '62 
ROME 
We are presently honored to be teamed 
up with orginizers of the forthcoming 
Sophomore Year Abroad In Rome of St 
Mary's-ND program iriiicfa win be joined 
here by ND fourth-year Architect students. 
Orientation lectures win include ones 
given by ND Almnm DAVID SKORY 
'47, resident American lawyer, Rev. 
EDWARD HESTON CSC '36, secretary 
of the Sacred Congregation for Religious 
at the Vatican and by yours truly, the 
imdersigned. 
Sununer guests: RUSSELL WIDGER 
•27
 and wife, SR. ANGELA C. GORMAN 

•65,
 JOHN CANNA and wife '55. THOMAS SWEENEY '43 and wife, AARON BAKER '71, FRANK CAC­CIAPAGLIA '47 and wife, with daughter. WILLIAM "CURLY" ASH '24 and wife. Prof. DEVERE PLUNKETT, Sr. M. GRATIA DYER RSM '57, honeymooning son and dau^ter-in4aw of JOHN HOBAN, '34, PAUL RAMSEY '68, rda-Uves of TOBY BARRY '51, BOB RICLEY '30 and wife, wife of ED MANSFIELD *34, she SMC '37 with six brothers and cousins as ND alunmL This rounded out by a phalanx of Holy Cross sisters on pilgrimage to the Motherhouse in Le Mans, France. 


Other visitors hailed from U. of of Nebraska. Va. Military Institute. Salve Regina, U. of Miami, Rochester, Kent State, Ashland. Cincinnati, Wheeling. Hendricks, Santa Clara, Barat Rutgers, Georgetown, Manhattan, New RocheUe, and, of course, dainty damsels from St Mary's! 
ND Roman Hospitality Center at Largo Brancaccio 82 is open week days noon to nine. Tel: 730.002. Welcomes! PAUL VI '60 holds public audience each Wednesday forenoon. He also appears at his studio window each Sunday noon. 
On Sept 8, our ND Roman Hospitality Center cdebrated its lOlh Birthday: Ouis the pride and pleasiure of hosting thou­sands of ND peoi^e jdus hundreds of other colleges and universities. 
And they keep coming: FRANCIS McGAHREN '35 and wife; JOEL HAGGARD '61 and wife; parents of LAWRENCE STEFANI '65 and BOB ex '60; ANDREW FEDYNSKY '69; FR. FRANCIS CAFARELLI CSC; JOHN ROSSHINT '56 with wife. SMC '55. and family; FR. EUGENE HEMRICK, ND Office of Ed. Research, and parents; daughter of LEO TURGEON '44; sister of ED O'CONNOR '66; JCWN BEAU '62; EDWARD RYTER '28 and sisters; Frank Gartland '39; MICHAEL Mc-CAULEY '69; CDR EUGENE LUND '55; DR. JOHN TOBIN "38 with wife plus sister (SMC '31) and daughter (SMC 73); CHARLES MESHOT '51 and wife; mother of DOUGLAS GRUND '54; ALBERT FRISBIE '29 and wife; DR. THOMAS MORRIS '54; DR. GORDON DI RENZO '57. 
Now behold this ND-SMC family Uee: ROBERT HEINEMAN '68 came in and wrote the foUomng after his name in the guest book: J. L. HEINEMAN '88. CFL '28. GEORGE '30, JOHN '57, GEORGE '60, JOSEPH '64; SR. MARIA TERESA CSC, SMC "27. MARY ELIZABETH '33. MARGO '59. ELLEN both SMC-ND '70. Ad Multos Anms! 
Vince McAfcwn '34 
ST. LOUIS 

The freshman send-off/annual golf outing 
at Glen Echo C.C. on Aug. 28 produced 
the largest number of golfers in recent 
years with 36 men getting in their licks. 
The trophy for low gross went to John 
Trampe '74 who toured the 18 in 75, 
besting GENE FEHLIG '43, JACK 
POWERS '53 and JIM McGLYNN '53 by 
two strokes. (He deserves a look, Fr. 
Durbin!) Gene Fehlig still has the knack 
of taking home trophies though, winning 

the low net honors with a 70. The dinner 
that followed featured a short talk by 

JOHN MACHECA '62, former SL Louisan 
and now Regional Director, Public Affairs 

Dept. of ND, along with comments from 
JOHN MASSMAN '56, our area alumni 
senator who made the trip over from 
Kansas City to be with us. DICK 
ROSENTHAL '54 flew in from South 
Bend to give BOB CHICKEY '54 a few 

golf lessons. Jack Powers and his commit­
tee — CHARLIE WITTENBERG '57, 
RICH CONNORS '63 and MIKE 
MCCARTHY '64 — put in quite a day. 

For the past six months the hottest topic in the club has been Missouri game tickets. At the time of this report, it appears that all of the local alumni who desire tickets should have an opportunity to obtain them, thanks to the considera­tion shown by ND. Now on to the main issue — WIN! DICK ASH '54 is leading the trip to South Bend for the ND-Pitt. game and any alumni wishing to go should contact Dick. On the agenda: ND-St. Louis U. basketball game Dec. 12. Watch your mail for details on the club's seating arrangements. Also St. Patrick's Day parade and party with JOE Mc­GLYNN looking for volunteers to make our participation bigger and better than last year. Call him or drop him a note; he can use you. Recent additions to the club roster are: JIM WEBER '63, EMERT WYSS '63 and JOE MARGIN '43. What about you? Our address is 7750 Clayton Rd. 63117. 
Paul Gund '63 
SAN DIEGO 
A highly successful student send-off 
dinner was hosted by the San Diego Club 
on Aug. 28. Some 30 alumni, students 
and fathers attended this function and 
all agreed it was most enlightening and 
enjoyable. 

Eight of the 15 San Diego area students were able to attend. Some had already departed for ND and others were on vacation, etc. The highlight of the evening was an "open" discussion among all present that covered such topics as parietal hours, student unrest, the student strike, racial problems on campus, many others, and, of course, football prospects. Needless to say, the repartee was spirited and the camaraderie quite vivid. 
The event was very capably arranged by Chairman JOHN CIHAK '60 and his fellow student liaison committee members, JOE JORDAN '64 and TOM HENESSY '67. Past President DON YECKEL '55 personally called the students or their parents to invite them to the dinner. 
Timothy K. Hinchey '30 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA 
Another fiscal year has opened for the San Francisco Bay Area ND Club. The club, headed by its new president, JAMES O'DONOGHUE '58, has completed the 
fall calendar of events, and each member 
will be receiving a copy shortly. 
Once again this year, BEN CAKES '31 has offered to arrange the trip to Los Angeles for the USC football game on Thanksgiving weekend. The tour package will include air fare, ground transportation, hotel accommodations at the Mayflower Hotel and game tickets. Any interested club members should plan to make the reservations immediately. 
Other events for the fall season will include the TV party for the Missouri game to be held on Oct. 17. 
In reviewing the club activities for the past year, we are pleased to report that the club membership reached a new high. In order to continue the growth and development of the club, we solicit the help of every club member for this new year. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
UTAH 
NORMAN HEMMELGARN '48, BILL 
ALLEN '57, JOHN SCHIRACK '50, 
TERRY McSWEENEY '68, ANDY 
SCHILLY '57, and JIM WEEKS '53 
formed the alumni nucleus of the annual 
student send-off of the Notre Dame Club 
of Utah. The function was again held at 
the mountain-side home of Bill Allen, on 
Aug. 30, in Salt Lake City. 
The remainder of the fair-sized group was composed of wives of the alumni, students (ND and St. Mary's), and parents. A typical hot, non-humid Utah summer afternoon was enhanced with the beer and refreshments, and picnic fare. 
Those in attendance enjoyed viewing the 1969 ND Football Highlights on fflm, and send best wishes to Ara and his staff, and the 1970 Fighting Irish for another successful season. 
A newcomer to the club, TED PETERS '69, was welcomed. Ted is beginning a teaching career at Judge Memorial, a Catholic high school in Salt Lake City. 
Following a discussion concerning the next proposed club function, a universal ND communion breakfast in December, the curtain was rung down on another very pleasant get-together of our very widely scattered group. 
John D. Schirack, M.D. '50 
VIRGINIA 
The annual freshman send-off was held on Aug. 28, at the home of CHIP BLILEY. Six area students were accepted at ND, making it the highest number of entrants in recent years. BERNIE NIERLE provided his usual sumptuous fare of cooked sausage and sweet com. Everyone had an excellent time, and our thanks to Bemie once again for his unfailing devotion to alumni functions. Incoming freshmen are: Vincent Lowery, Kerry Powers, Vic Dorr, Larry Lafratta, and twin brothers, Robert and Richard Keenan. 
Club officials are busy planning a get-together for the ND-Missouri football game on national TV. In past years, such meetings have been very popular with local alumni. Club President FRANK WALLMEYER has been very active in planning the maximum number of dub events. Another club o£Bcer, JIMMY WALLACE, deserves praise for his strenu­ous efforts as chairman of the recruiting 
committee. 
Frank D. Carpin '62 
WALL STREET 
The next meeting of the Notre Dame Wall 
Street Group will be held as usual, in the 
New York Stock Exchange Lunch Room, 
11 Wall Street, on Nov. 4. 
Our guest speaker will be Robert H. 
Stovall, partner, head of research, 
Reynolds & Co. Stovall has been promi­
nent in the financial community as a 
speaker and a frequent contributor of 
articles for newspapers and magazines such 
as the Wall Street Journal, Barrens and 
Forbes. His talk promises to be as interest­
ing and instmctive as the others we 
have had during the last three years. 
Stovall is an alumnus of the U. of 
Pennsylvania. 
JOHN H. BARTLEY, '25, a member of 
the Reynolds firm for 36 years, will 
introduce Stovall. 
Our plans for the following meeting 
are to assemble the 18 ND Specialists, 
from the New York Stock Exchange, 
for a panel meeting with participating 
members. 
All ND alumni and their parents, in 
the investment profession, are invited to 
attend our meetings. Refreshments are 
served at four o'clock. 
Deon Sutton '31 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
A luncheon for incoming ND freshmen and their parents was held Aug. 28. JIM SLATTERY '69 spoke of life on campus. PETE CANNON '56, club president, presented the aspects of local participation. Chairman of the affair was JIM KENNY '61. On Sept. 12 a sport outing was sponsored for the children at 
D.C. Children's Center in Laurel, Md. Everyone in attendance enjoyed the day. BILL HAMILTON '62 was the food co­ordinator, while JIM GAMMON '56, and his traveling musicians, provided entertainment. The whole affair was arranged by HARRY DUTKO '56. The club's monthly luncheon series had its kick­off Sept. 15 at the University Club. Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska was the speaker. 
During the summer months four local alumni passed away. Our sincere sym­pathies to the wives and families of ROBERT FINLAY '60, DR. JAMES CORCORAN '38, GEORGE McNALLY '31 and JAMES KELLEHER '55. 
The coming events for the club are many. Pete Cannon's excursion to South Bend for the Purdue-ND game via Purdue Airlines, the Navy game in Phfladelphia, Oct. 31 — FRANK GREGORY, chairman, and the annual business meeting in November. 
Join in on the metropolitan activities. Contact Harry Dutko at 6307 64th Ave., East Riverdale, Md. 20840. 
At the recitation of the rosary for RAYMOND F. KOHIN '24, who died May 27, the club was represented by VINCENT HANRAHAN '24, JAMES GAMMAN '56, WILLIAM MIDDEN­DORF, '43 and RAYMOND READY '60. Raymond's son, ROGER P. '53, lives in Worcester, Mass. 
Harry A. Dutko '56 

Fire breaks out on the Notre Dame, a hydroplane competing in the Seafair Trophy Race on Lake Washington at Seattle. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON In Seattle, the seafair events concluded with the Seafair Trophy Race. This race included 14 hydroplanes competing for four days on Lake Washington. Shirley Mendelson McDonald's hydroplane. Noire Dame, finished first on three days of the four-day competition. On Sunday, August 2, 1970, the driver, crew and scorers displayed unbelievable courage. In the first heat, Notre Dame, attempting to pass Budiviser, developed difficulties which prohibited Notre Dame from finishing and resulted in zero points. With this substantial loss of points, others would have given up but the Notre Dame driver, Leif Borgenson, won the second heat with a fire engulfing the hydroplane. I.eif put the flames out, and the crew of Notre Dame went to work removing the engine, repairing the fire damage, re­building the craft and installing the new engine. Forty-five minutes later, Notre Dame went on to win the final heat with speeds of 112.S0 mph in wet weather and choppy waters. But for the engine diffi­culties in the first heat, Notre Dame would have won the regatta. Notre Dame finished third with 800 points, separated from the second-place winner by only 25 points. Although there was no award for courage in competition, the owners, crew and driver of Notre Dame deserve all the credit this writer can give. Sept. 20 saw Notre Dame in San Diego for the National Point Championship at the Gold Cup Races. We wish her well and to quote 
Leif Borgenson, "We're going to give 
Bernie a run for his money!" 
Summer events include our picnic at 
Camp Denny on Aug. 15, and the freshman 
sendoff at the Villa Marina on Aug. 25 in 
Redmond. 
The Notre Dame Club of Western 
Washington notes with sadness the passing of 
PHILIP I. LUCIER of St. Louis. Lucier, 
an ND cum laude graduate, was the 
president of the third largest utilities 
company in the U.S. and father of 11 
children. He was killed after an abundance 
of service to his fellow man. Our sym­
pathies are extended to his family and his 
ND friends everywhere. 
August events included the picnic on the 15th and the freshman sendoff on the 27th. Our picnic proved to be a lot of fun for adults and children alike. Chairman MIKE HERB '58 led the sack races, tug-of-war games, and other activities. 
JEFF KOCH and JIM DAILEY hosted the freshman sendoff at the Villa Marina in Redmond. Freshmen Tim Murphy and Mark O'Connel and their parents discussed preparation for ND with student Mark Gaffney, the MAYS, the Daileys, JIM LYONS, JOHN GAGLIARDINI, and Chairman Jeff Koch. The event was informative with interesting questions and answers regarding student life. 
On Sept. 26, ND classmates from '58 were scheduled to gather for the observance of a reunion concurrently with the post-game reunion being held at the Morris Inn. For this occasion, JIM KINNANE and JIM COONEY made 
available the film "Notre Dame High­
lights, 1969"; class secretary ART 
ROULE sent along his best wishes to his 
comrades in the far west. 
The second Hiursday luncheon program began in September at Victors 610. Regidar attendance for all area ND men, friends of the University, parents and clergy should be the rule of order. 
John J. Gagh'ardiiii '58 
YOUNGSTOWN-WARREN 
PHIL PROSSER '58, our congenial 
program chairman, announces the next 
meeting of the group for mid-October. 
Our annual golf outing in August saw 
prizes going to CHARLES CUSHWA III 
'57 (for high gross) and guest. Herb 
Schuler, for low gross. 
Seen at a jammed businessmen's clam­bake was JOHN GILLIGAN '43 meeting local alumni and shaking hands all around in his pursuit of the state governor's office. Also clamming and charming was BILL DUNLEVY '30 in from Hudson, Ohio, for the event 
Congratulatioas to JAMES F. DRIS­COLL '57 on his new appointment as manager of the Youngstown office. Equitable Life. Jim and his wife, Maiy Kay (Barat '59) have five children and are active in a variety of community and church affairs. 
That's all for imw. 
BiU Cushwa '59 
ox 
RECORD 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Nancy M. Healy to MICHAEL HAGGERTY '65. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Elizabeth Dell and DAVID F. HYDE SR. '40, Aug. 29. Miss Betty Baran to TIMOTHY E. PACKEY '68, Aug. 8. Miss Kathleen E. Malone, SMC '69, to GORDON L. BEELER '69, July 18. Miss Diane Romak to JACK COATH '69, June 13. Miss Ruthmarie Hamburge to WILLIAM J. MITSCH '69, May 28. 
ADOPTIONS 

Mr. and Mrs. PETER C. McCASLAND '59, a daughter, Joan Therese, June. Dr. and Mrs. EDWARD G. KING '65, a daughter, Bethany Lisa, Aug. 19. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. LUDWIG 
'59, a son, Gregory James, Sept. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES M. 
HARTMAN '63, a son, John David, 
Aug. 31. 

Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH G. SANDZA, JR. 
'64, a son, Joseph Gerald III. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN GILFEATHER 
'68, a son, Meredith, Aug. 24. 
SYMPATHY 

EDWIN L. PICK '03 on the death of his father, JOHN B. '02L, Aug. 13. LAMBERT Q. SENG '18 on the death of his wife, Marie, Aug. 7. 
J. FRANK MILES '22 on the death of his sister, Mrs. George A. McCalpin. EDMUND J. BRENNAN '28, on the death of his wife, Evelyn, Aug. 4. 
ARTHUR A. MITIGUY '28 on the 
death of his brother, JOHN F. '29, 
July 23. 

JOHN THOMAS '38 and GERARD '41 
on the death of their brother GEORGE 
•37, LLB '38, Aug. 8. 

CALIX E. MILLER JR. '49, PAUL '55, JOHN '58 and DUANE '60 on the death of their father, CALIX E. SR. '21, Sept 30. 
DENNIS J. O'NEILL Jr. '51 and F. 

MICHAEL '61 on the death of their father, 
DENNIS J. O'NEILL '26. 
ROGER P. KOHIN '53, on the death 

of his father, RAYMOND F. '24, May 27. 
WILLIAM D. REYNOLDS '54 on the 

death of his father, Harry J. Reynolds, May. 
ARMIN F. GUMERMAN '59 on the 
death of his father, Arthur F., Sept 1. GEORGE Q. EVANS '63, on the death of his father, ROBERT F. EVANS '28. ROGER G. HESKETT '64 and JOHN 

G. HESKETT '65 on the death of their brother, BRUCE W. HESKETT '68, June 29. 
THOMAS E. DEAL '65 on the death of his father, ERVIN J. '41, July 15. 

ROBERT E LEE III '65, on the death of his father, ROBERT E. LEE JR. '35, Sept 3. 
DANIEL T. TUTKO II '67, on the death of his sister, Linda Tutko, Sept 8. 
RICHARD Z. GUTOWSKI '68 and DAVID T. '70 on the death of their father, JOHN Z. '39, Aug. 16. 
WILLIAM R. EASBY-SMITH '69 on the death of his brother, EDWARD '70. 
DEATHS 

JOHN B. PICK '02L, Aug. 13. He is sur­vived by two sons, EDWIN L. '03, 124 S. 8th St, West Bend, Wis. 53095, and John M. 
ORRIN A. WHITE '02, April. He is sur­vived by his widow at 1205 Linda Vista, Pasadena, Calif. 
WILLIAM A. DRAPER '07, June 30. He is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Maiy Draper Neil, 6 Robinhood Lane, Ncth­field, 111. 60093. 
SOPHUS F. NEBLE LLB'09, Aug. 7. He is survived by a daughter, Dorothy, 9220 Whitworth Dr., Los Angdes, Calif. 
CHARLES J. KELLY '11, Dec. 12, 1969. He is survived by his widow, 125 Timiod Rd., Manchester, Conn. 06040, and a daughter, Mrs. R. H. Yellen. 
REV. THOMAS A. LAHEY CSC '11, MA '18, PhD '23, Oct 1. He is survived by his sister. Miss Annie Lahey, Michigan City, Ind. 
WILLIAM E. FARREN '15, in August He is survived by his widow, 1424 33rd St, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007. 
CALIX E. MILLER '21, Sept 30. He is survived by his widow, Margarete, 110 N. Hawthorne Dr., South Bend, Ind.; five sons, CALIX JR. '49, PAUL '55, JOHN '58, DUANE '60 and James; a daughter, Margaret Zenner, and 32 grandchildren. 
LAWRENCE J. FITZGERALD "23, Aug. 
21. He is survived by his widow, Mildred, 1144 E. Fern Dr., South Phoenix, Aiiz.; a son, Kenneth; two daughters, Mrs. Jane M. Price and Patricia, and seven grandchildren. 
RAYMOND F. KOHIN '24, May 27. He is survived by his widow, Ruth, 8037 Paik Lane, Bethesda, Md. 20014, and a son ROGER P. '53. 
DENNIS J. O'NEILL '26, Sept 6. He is survived by his widow, Dorothy, 1241 Bunts Rd., Lakewood, Ohio 44102; and six children including two sons DENNIS J., JR. '51 and F. MICHAEL '61. 
WILLIAM F. FENNELL '27, Aug. 17. He is survived by his family, at 235 Nur­sery Ave., Geneva, N.Y. 
HAROLD T. McCABE LLB'27, August 
24. He is survived by his widow, Rosaline, 2040 Cumberiand St., Rockford, lU. 61103, and two sons. 
ROBERT F. EVANS "28, June 30. He is survived by his widow, 2203 Wilson St, Vicksburg, Miss. 39180, a son, GEORGE '63, and a daughter. 
EDWARD G. BARCH '29, died Aug. 30. He is survived by his widow,.Ruth, 6135 Wasigo Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio 4S230. 
EUGENE A. MILLIFF "29, June 10. He is survived by his widow, Magdalene, 3167 Linden Rd. No. 4, Rocky River, O. 44116. 
JOHN F. MITIGUY '29, July 23. He is survived by his widow, Thelma; two sons; two daughters and a brother, ARTHUR A. '28. 
GEORGE DANIEL SHAY '30, July 21. He is survived by his widow, 220 N. Quaker Lane, West Hartford, Conn., a son and three daughters. 
DANIEL D. HALPIN '31, Aug. 22. He is survived by his widow, Margaret, 125 Gates Ave., Montclair, NJ . 07042; three sons, John, Daniel and Richard, and a daughter. Sister Ann. 
GEORGE J. McNALLY '31, in August He is survived by his widow, 103 Luckett St., RockviUe, Md. 208S0. 
DANIEL J. PFLAUM '32. Ph.D. '34, July 29. He is survived by his widow. Maty Louise, 408 Gilmoure Dr., Silver Spring, Md., two sons and three daugbtets. 

RA'STMOND JOSEPH BRANCHEAU '34, July 28. He is survived by his family, 2022 Juniper St., Silver City, N.M. 
ROBERT E LEE Jr. '35, Sept 3. He is survived by his widow, 72 Wepawaug Rd., Woodbridge, Coim. 06525, and a son ROBERT E. LEE III '65. 
SISTER MARY VIRGINIA MILROY MS'35, Aug. 12. 
GEORGE J. BONFIELD '37, in Septem­ber. He is survived by his widow, Mary, 7801 SW 48th Ct, Miami, Fla. 33143; five sons and seven daughters. 
F. STEVE FINAN '37, Aug. 3. He is survived by his widow, 2864 Monroe, Ana­heim, CaUf. 92801. 
GEORGE THOMAS "37, LLB '38, Aug. 
8. He is survived by two brothers, JOHN '38 and GERARD '41 and a sister. 

JOHN Z. GUTOWSKI '39, Aug. 16. He is survived by his widow, Irene, 1299 High­land Ave., Ambridge, Pa. 15003; and two sons, RICHARD Z.'68, and DAVID T.'70. 
JAMES J. CASPER '40, July 11. He is survived by his family, 2420 Brownsboro Rd., Louisville, Ky. 40206. 
ELVIN J. DEAL '41, July 15. He is survived by his widow, Doris, 8120 South­west 184th Lane, Miami, Fla. 33157; three daughters, two sons, a granddaughter, his father and a sister. 
PHILLIP J. LUCIER '42, July 24. He is survived by his widow at 6237 McPherson Ave., St Louis, Mo. 63130. 
J. MICHAEL MALLOY JR. '44. He is survived by his widow, 33-51 80th St, Jackson Heights, N.Y. 11372. 
REV. GEORGE R. COLBY CSC '46, 1970. Very Rev. FRANCIS J. CONNELL CSSR, LLD'52, May 12, 1967. 
EUGENE F. FORAN '52, June 13. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene F. Foran. 
J. PATTERSON DREW '53, Sept. 2. He is survived by his widow, Elizabeth, 3112 Woodley Rd., N.W., Washington, D C 20008 
JAMES F. KELLEHER '54, Sept 8. He is survived by his widow, Mary, 1955 Sem­inary Rd., Silver Spring, Md. 20910; two sons, Patrick and Sean; two daughters, Christine and Maurine, and a sister. Sister Joan KeUeher OSU. 
ALLAN J. RICK MS'57, Aug. 22. He is survived by his widow, Nancy, 1801 N. Yates Ave., Pensacola, Fla. 32593; a son, Lawrence and a dauE^ter, Margaret. 
JOHN A. BERNARD '58, Aug. 22. He is survived by his widow, Sharon; a son, a dau^ter, his mother and a brother. 
ROBERT C. FINDLAY '60 and LLB'64, July 23. He is survived by his widow, Patricia, 7207 45th St., Chevy Chase, Md., and his parents. 
GEORGE T. DEMETRIO JR. '63, Aug. 
23. He is survived by his widow. Sheila, 1615 Waxwing Ct, Schaumburg, UK 60172. SISTER THOMAS RADEMACHER MA'64, March 19, 1969. 
ROBERT C. GUENARD '66, Sept 1. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond O. Guenard, 80 Prospect St, Foxboro, Mass. 02035. 
BRUCE W. HESKETT '68, June 29. He is survived by bis parents. Dr. and Mrs. Robert G. Heskett 524 Medical Center Bldg., Spokane, Wash. 99204, and two brothers, JOHN G. '65 and ROGER G. '64. 
EDWARD EASBY-SMITH '70, Sept 2. He is survived by his parents, Mr .and Mis. Paid Easby-Smith, 5108 Edgemore Lane, Bethesda, Md. 20014 and a brother, WILLIAM R. '69. 

ALU3fNI ASK 
HIRAM, HOW COULD YOU? 
What a shock it was to read about the education of Hiram Humperdick, his choice of profession and his rise to success. How he succeeded without being relevant to the needs of his time (who needs a good plumber?) is a mystery that is probably still baffling the "shrewd guidance counselor" and the other 22 organizations of the "establishment" that wrote letters to Hiram. They might not have written Hiram if they would have known what an effect their combined actions were going to have on Hiram's life. 
Poor Hiram in his veil of ignorance chose to work during his adult life at a profession that he felt reasonably sure would produce the money he needed to give him the selfish satisfaction of supporting himself (naturally this included his wife, their children, and a few other relatives and friends). Hiram was under the mistaken philosophical assumption that he has to look out for his own welfare, not that of the whole world. Hiram reasoned "wrongly" that if each man took care of his own needs, then the world would take care of itself. Hiram had never heard of "Big Brother." 
What kind of education could Hiram get sitting on a back-porch swing in Leftfoot, Mont., reading books? 
He certainly missed what Mr. Karnes '68 described in his letter— a university as a trinity of students, faculty, and administrators—a forum 
Ltcaping leprechaun! 
Three hours before the kick-off of the ND-Northwestem game, Irish alumni were embroiled in a cook-off with Northwestern grads in Chicago. The Irish lost. 
The culinary confrontation, spon­sored by Smirnoff Sales Co., saw the ND Chicago Club contingent quarter­backed by Johnny Lattner, honorary of interaction. Hiram also missed being the "past" whose only value is financial support for the university trinity. 
Roger Hosbein 'SO 
Winnetka, 111. 
WHAT DOES ND STAND FOR? 
With two sons approaching college 
age, I find myself asking the 
question, "Would I want my sons 
to attend Notre Dame?" 
Quite honestly I can't answer that question. The reason is because it is most difficult to determine what ND really is today. What does ND stand for? What are its pur­poses, goals and ideals? 
To me, it seems that ND has become wishy-washy, constantly bending and changing course without any true purpose. The ideals of pride of manliness, devotion to Mary and trust in our God do not appear to be the theme, the way of Notre Dame life. 
Dissent, violence and despair are the signs of a dying society. Faith in God and hope in our fellow man are the true signs of a healthy society. 
Rules and regulations may appear to be confining and restrictive, but they are the guidelines of social behavior. We need these regulations to direct our activities. The young seem to want these guidelines, but we fail them by not setting the regulations and making sure that they are maintained. Twenty years ago we graduated from ND—proud that we were Notre Dame men. Yes, proud that we had lived by the rules and regulations. Proud of the hours we had spent on our knees at 
chef. A $2,000 prize went to the group that put together the best brunch menu accompanied by a vodka drink (SmimofTs, of course). 
A panel of food experts judged the winning menu for its originality and for its success in providing the right combination of foods and beverage for an ideal pregame brunch. 
The Irish did pick up the $1,000 runner-up prize. Their vodka drink, labeled the Leaping Leprechaun, went something like this: 
the Giotto. Proud of ND, a uni­
veisity for men with ideab of futfa in 
our God and our feOaw man. 
Where are the inide, the detenni­
natioa. the faith, Oe ideab? Should 
my sons attend Notre Dame? 
Don J. Schuhbeb 'SO 
RJ>. No. S, Scenic Kmdb 
Bloomsbuig. Pa. 17815 
UON or GOO 
As an alumnus I si^gest that all of us older men who haven't done so already read a book by Taylor Caldwell titled "Great Lion of God" and sub-titled "A Major Novel About St Paul." It B lengthy but terrifically interesting in that it is thoroughly researched and brings out many facts about the eariy Church that those of us who were brought up on the Baltimore Catechism (even in coU^e) may be unaware; such as the battles of Paul and I.idEe against Peter and some of the other Apostles to <^ien Christianity as a religion for all men. 
The depth with which Miss Caldwell details the younger years of Paul may help stMne of us to be more understanding of the genera­tion gap which apparently existed even in those years. Abo its coverage of other conflicts amongst Church leaders in the eariy days of Christianity may give greater understanding to the Church con­flicts of today. 
I hope many alumni will read thu book and find it enlightening to their understanding of the Chureh as well as their lives. 
Jordan T. Hargrove '35 511 North ViDage Avenue Rockville Centre, NY 11570 
116 ounces of vodka V2 ounce peppemunt schnapps l/i ounce green creme de menthe l/i scoop vanilla ice cream 


Mix in blender with crushed ice. Serve in frosted stemmed glass. 
Perhaps that's why the men on our back cover are smiling. They are (left to right), Thomas McCandless, Smirm^ representative; Patrick J. Montroy, president of the ND Chicago Club; and J(4m Lattner. 







