The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

fHE NGrp,£)DAME 
Mark the Dates: 


JUNE 4 5 6 

No. 8
May. 1937 

^ol. 15 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


CENTRALITY 
Delicious 
and 
In the heart of Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Park; 
o short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with bath and shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dome Room. 

•
 Notre Dame alumni, student body and faculty con be definitely certain that they will receive the ultimate in facilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingly moderate. 

•
 Make the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago. 


Attait G. Hurst^ Manager 
CHICAGO'S 


KNICKERBOCKER 

Wholesome 
Boot»^-'* 
Start the new year 
of the Alumni Asso­
ciation with a loud 
bang. 
Rich in 

DEXTROSE 
the food-enersy susar 

Pay your 1937-38 dues with the first notice. 
Stop with GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, '02 at the 
Treat yourself to 


Lins Golden Court Motor Hotel 
that nice satisfied 

Tucumcari, New Mtexico On U. S. 66 ^ y Rosfer. feeling for the rest Highway 
of the year. 
Filling^ Station and 
Cafe in connection. 



A SYMBOL OF (jMclom LIVING 
Your guests will appreciate the beautiful modernness of Blackhawk Hotels — their gracious hospitality — their outstanding service and conveniences. In Blackhawk Hotels you will find luxurious comfort at moderate rates. 
Blackhawk Hotels Located In 
Davenport Iowa Peoria Hotel Blackhawk Hotel Jefferson Hotel Mississippi St. Paul Hotel Davenport Hotel St. Paul 
Mason Gty — Hotel Hanford 

BLACKHAWK HOTELS COMPANY 
The magazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indlmnm. The subscription price is $2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subgeription to THE ,, ALUMKUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, nt *hf> r.^-^ ^ff" '*• ^^•'•' " ^ ^' • • • L^-BW-.LJ-..M.^-JA^RJ.!.-^-L 





The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. 15 MAY. 1937 No. 8 
'37 Class to Hear D. F. Kelly, Bishop Alter 
Desrees Will Be Conferred Upon 498; Cere­
monies to Begin Friday, June 4, With Many Re­

unions; Traditional Events Have Prominent Places 
Contributions of business and com­merce to American life are recog­nized at Notre Dame this year in the selection of Dennis F, Kelly, promi­nent Chicago merchant and philan­thropist, to give the ninety-third Commencement address, on Sunday, June 6. The Commencement cere­monies will begin on Friday, June 4. 
Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, D.D., bishop of Toledo, Ohio, one of the leading figures in the American hier­archy, \\-ill deliver the baccalaureate sermon. Both have long been friends of Notre Dame. Mr. Kelly received an honorary doctor of laws degree in 1930, and Bishop Alter has been a guest on the campus on many occa­sions. 
Mr. Kelly, in addition to being president of the Fair Store and a leader in the development of State Street as a merchandising center kno^vn throughout the world, has been extremely prominent in Catho­lic charitable acti\'ities for the past 25 years. For services in this respect, he was created a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory by the late Pope Ben­edict, and later made a Knight of Malta by Pope Pius XI. 
498 Degrees 

In the class of 1937, degrees will be conferred upon 498 candidates in the colleges of arts and letters, sci­ence, engineering, law, and com­merce. Forty-two states and seven foreign countries are represented. One hundred and eighty-eight will be graduated with honors. 
Facing brighter prospects than any class since 1929, 219 of this year's graduates depart from the College of Arts and Letters, 146 from the Col­lege of Commerce, 49 from the Col­lege of Science, and 55 from the College of Engineering. In addition, 29 candidates are being awarded bachelor's degrees from the College of Law. 
Re-unions, developed throug h many months by the unending energy and deep interest of many persons, will be an outstanding feature of the 1937 Commencement. 
Father Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, 
vice-president of the University, Fa­ther Raymond Murray, C.S.C, head of the Department of Sociology, and an able committee have combined their many talents to arouse unprec­edented enthusiasm for the first St. Joe Hall re-union. That alone will bring back to the campus many noted Notre Dame figures. 
Ben Kaiser, Pittsburgh, has been working steadily for more than a year to develop the silver anniversary re-union of the class of 1912 and present indications are that he will, with Fred Mendez, South Bend, the local chairman, achieve exceptional results, in attendance, interest and program. 
Members of the golden anniver­sary class of 1887, under the guid­ance of John Heineman, class secre­tarj', will meet with the 1912 class for dinner Friday evening in the Fac­ulty Dining Room. 
Inspired by splendid interest of Eddie McOsker, class secretary, the 20-year class of 1917, will have a 
D. F. KELLY 
Commencement Speaker. 

special re-union to fight over again their experiences in the World War days of their graduation. They will have a gala re-union on Friday night at the beautiful summer home of Bemie Voll, who is the local chair­man for the class. 
Herb Giorgio, class secretarj', has been working thoughtfully for many months on the plans for the five-year re-union of the 1932 boys. With the help of Tom Hagee and the special assistance of Ed O'Malley, local chairman, he will produce, it seems certain, the largest five-year re-union in history. 
Informal Re-unions 

Innumerable groups will meet in­formally for re-unions. The class of 1931, for instance, was so pleased with its five-year gathering a year ago that it will meet unofficially again this year. Tom Proctor and Prank Hochreiter will gather in many boys from '35. And there will be others. 
The traditional events will occupy their usual places in the week-end program. There will be two base­ball games, both with the University of Iowa, on Friday and Saturday. The Council of Local Clubs, inspired by last year's highly successful pro­gram, ^vill gather at 11 o'clock Sat­urday morning. The annual Alumni Banauet will be at 6 o'clock Saturday evening. 
An unusual feature of the Com­mencement program will be the pres­entation of the Laetare Medal, on Sunday afternoon at 3 o'clock, to Dr. Jeremiah Denis M. Ford, the emi­nent Harvard scholar. 
The hospitality of the University and the campus is extended to all former Notre Dame students, wheth­er they be members of the re-union classes or not. Those who did not receive degrees are equally welcome with those who were fortunate enough to receive them. 
Ample residence accommodations will, as before, be provided on the campus for all those returning. Mem­bers of each class will have rooms close to each other in the halls. 

U.N.D. Nisfit Has Wider Scope 
Radio Programs 
Add Welcome Notes 
As always, it vras bigger and better! 
The conclusive proof of the un­

precedented succes s of Universal 
Notre Dame Night on April 19 is the 
volume of club news in this issue of 
the ALUSINUS. That outlines, better 
than other words could, the details 
and innovations of the Night's ob­
servance from Coast to Coast. All 
readers are asked to pay particular 
attention to it. 
Special ti-ibute should be paid, however, to the Studebaker Corpora­tion, South Bend, for its co-operation in allotting a part of its i-adio time on NBC to the special Notre Dame pro­gram. The remarks of Father John 
F. O'Hara, and Elmer Lay den, and the songs of the Glee Club were heard and appreciated in all parts of the country and, especially in the many Notre Dame gatherings. The Studebaker advertising agency , Roche, Williams & Cunnyngham, Chicago, acted generously with Studebaker's in arranging the pro­gram. 
Particular recognition is also due the Michigan network, a combination of eight stations in that state, which presented 15 - minute Notre Dame program on Universal Night, •with the assistance of Alfred N. Slaggert, '21, •Detroit. AI was the speaker on the program. ; 
Approximately 75 individual radio stations in all parts of the country co-operated •with the University and the local alumni in putting Notre Dame programs on the air on Uni­versal Night Many of them were elaborate and required detailed ad­vance preparation. Notre Dame ex­tends its sincere appreciation to all of these and to every group and in­dividual responsible for any part of them. 
Thanks to every one, noted and unnoted, known and unknown, for the extraordinarv success of the Night. 
And now turn to the club news! 
ANDERSON ENTRY WINS 

Richard Segraves, of St. Mary's High school, Anderson, was declared 
•winner of the third annual Indiana Catholic High School oratorical con­test on April 18, in Washington Hall on the campus. Seven speakers spoke from 15 to 20 minutes each on cur­rent topics. 
Henry Freistoffer, Catholic Cen-
PROGRAM 
of the 


NINETY-THIRD ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT 
(All events are scheduled on Central Standard Time) 


Friday, June 4 
Alumni Registration. Opening of Alumni Golf Tournament—^The William J. Burke-University 18-hole Course. Reunion Classes Meet by Special Arrangement of Class Committees. Official 1937 Reunions are: 1887; 1888-89-90-91; 1897; 1907-08-09-10; 1912; 1917; 1927; 1932, and a Special Reunion of all St. Joseph Hall alumni. 
2:30 P.M. Baseball, University of Iowa vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
7:00
 P.M. Concert, University Band, Main Quadrangle. 

7:00
 P.M. Silver Jubilee Dinner of the Class of 1912, Faculty Dining Room of the University Dining Halls. 


8:00
 P.M. University Theatre Production, Washington Hall 

8:00
 P.M. Five-Year Reunion Party, Class of 1932, Columbia Athletic Club, South Bend. 

8:00
 P.M. Twenty-year Reunion Party, Class of 1917, Bernard J. Voll home, 


Ironwood Road. 

Saturday, June 5 
Alumni Registration. 
-A-lumni and Class Golf Tournaments. 
8:30 A.M. Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church. 
9:30 A.M. Last Visit of Class of '37, Sacred Heart Church (private ceremony). 
10:00 A.M. Class Day Exercises and Award of Honors, Washington Hall. 
11:00 A.M. Eighth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs. 
2:30 P.M. Baseball, University of Iowa vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
6:00 P.M. Annual Alumni Banquet, East Hall, University Dining Halls. 
8:00 P.M. Concert, University Muscial Organizations, Washington Hall. 
Sunday, June 6 
8:30 A.M. Academic Procession, Main Building to University Gymnasium. 
9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, University Gymnasium. Baccalaureate Sermon, The Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, D.D., Bishop of Toledo, Ohio. 
The Flag presented by the Class of '37 will be blessed immediately after Mass. 
11:00 A.M. Raising of the Flag, Main Quadrangle. 
12:00
 M. Luncheon Reunion of St. Joe Hall Alumni, Faculty Dining Room, University Dining Halls. 

12:00
 M. Monogram Luncheon, West Hall, University Dining Halls. 


3:00 P.M. Presentation of the Laetare Medal to Dr. Jeremiah Denis M. Ford, University Parlor. 
4:00 P.M. Awarding of Degrees to the Class of 1937, University Gymnasium. 
The Commencement Address will be delivered by Dennis F. Kelly, LL.D., Chicago. 
tral high school, of Fort Wayne, won Segraves' oration, "Child Labor second prize, and William De Muth, Ame.ndment," •was a terse treatise on Catholic Central high school, of Ham­the attitude of 28 states that have mond, and John Ziedler, of St. already passed the amendment in Mary's high school, Michigan City, their legislatures. were tied for third place. 
Richard Meier, varsity debater, 
Segraves was awarded a gold who leads the entire school in point medal for first place, Freistoffer a of scholastic average •with a four-silver medal, and each of the other year mark of 97.93, •was one of three five received a bronze medal. Se­judges of the contest. Rev. William graves also was given the McNamara A. Bolger, C.S.C, and Dr. Francis E. trophy, emblematic of supremacy in McMahon, of the philosophy depart­the annual oration. Deputy Attorney ment, completed the trio. The con­General J. P. McNamara, '29, of In­test was sponsored by the Wranglers' 
dianapolis, presented the trophy. club. 

Association's Communism Program Progresses 
President and Secretary Visit Pacific Coast Firsl Time 
in Association History; Clubs and Outside Co-operating; Movement Gaining General 
The Association's efforts to stimu­late proper concepts of Communism, and to spread this right perspective to others through the medium of our aluirmi, are meeting \vith success. Many of the Local Clubs have found the proposed meetings on the original itinerary too soon for preparation, entailing postponements, but where they have been held they have re­sulted most favorably, -ind many other groups, K. of C, American Legion, parish societies, etc., have en­tered invitations for the time of President Arthur J. Hughes, so that his original program has been ex­panded in the last analysis. 
The Knights Crusade, the program of the -American Legion, splendid work being done through the Sunday Visitor, Jesuit publications, diocesan organs, the pulpits of the Church, the Papal Encyclical on Atheistic Com­munism, increasing variety and qual­ity in our pamphlet racks—^have en­rolled in recent months in eloquent tribute to the judgment and initiative of Notre Dame and our Association in undertaking this campaign under President Hughes last year. 
Columbus, Hamilton, Cincinnati 
Since the last report. President Hughes, in addition to many personal addresses to outside organizations, has, with the Alumni secretary, vis­ited the Notre Dame Clubs of Colum­bus, Hamilton, Cincinnati, Akron and Cleveland. By the time you read this, the western trip will be under way—the first time this Alumni sec­retary has visited the clubs west of the Mississippi, and the first time a president of the association has ever made such a signal contribution of time. In addition to the cause which is the immediate motive, the organiza­tion improvement from these contacts would justify the effort and time. 
In Columbus, Eay Eichenlaub, Ed Moriarity, Harry Nester, Dr. Dunn, Don Hamilton and the other members of the club, assembled a fine crowd on the night of April 5, only to have them disappointed when unusually bad and unlooked for weather condi­tions delayed the speaker. However, President Hughes and the Alumni Secretary met the committee in a long and most pleasant rump convention. 
In Hamilton, the following noon, April 6, Judge M. O. Bums and Marc Fiehrer overcame the difficulties of a noon meeting, and filled the dining room of the Elks club with a splendid and representative group of Notre Dame and civic business and profes­sional men. 
The night of April 6, the Notre Dame club of Cincinnati sponsored an open meeting at the Kemper Lane hotel. A dinner for the visiting offi­cers of the association preceded the meeting. Don Dixon was chairman of the affair, aWy aided by Frank Sweeney, manager of the Kemper Lane, Dick Sheils, Bob Bonkamp, Leo Dubois, Jeff Powers, George .A.ug, and Hogan Morrissey. 
Akron and Cleveland 

April 13, Aki-on, like Hamilton, de­feated the jinx of noon-day meetings and provided an outstanding meeting of alumni and prominent guests. Bill Burkhardt was in general charge of arrangements and was rewarded by their success. Doctor Jim Kramer was special host to his classmate. President .A.rt Hughes. A miniature . reunion of the Class of 1911 was held in Doctor Kramer's home after the luncheon meeting, attended by Al Hilkert, Bill Helmkamp, Billy Ryan, Doc Kramer and Art Hughes. The Alumni Secretaiy refereed. 
The night of the thirteenth, Cleve­land, under the absent general lead­ership of President Pat Canny, held a meeting in the auditorium of Ca­thedral Latin High school, through the courtesy and cooperation of Fath­er Lawrence Yeske. Tom Byrne, -\1 Sommer and Charles A. Mooney, Jr.' were among the committee members 
REGARDING APPLICATIONS 
New applicants for admission to the University next September number about 70 per cent more than at the same time a year ago, according to the latest figures from Registrar Robert B. Riordan. Present indications are that cam­pus residence facilities will be ex­hausted not later than July 1 and, in consequence, no applications accepted after that (except from students whose homes are in the South Bend area). 
Alumni are urged to act upon this information at once, wher­ever necessary, and to pass it along to their interested relatives and friends. 
 Groups  Ground 
present and accounted for, together with many other faces familiar both in the Cleveland scene and on the campus. The Notre Dame club of Cleveland has furthered the anti-Communism, o r pro - Americanism, program in the Cleveland diocese by cooperation with Bishop Schrembs. The Bishop each year conducts an essay contest in the high schools and colleges of the Diocese, on a religious theme. This year, because of its relig­ious and timely significance, he has chosen Communism as the theme. The Notre Dame club has offered a special prize of §25 to the winner in the high school and the winner in the college classifications, in addition to the usual medal award made by Bishop Schrembs. 
HONOR PAUL MARTIN 

During a solemn ceremony held at St. Peter's Church, Chicago, on Sunday, April 25, Paul R. Martin, '09, now a member of the faculty at the University, was formally received as an affiliate of the Order of Friars Minor, the most important branch of the First Order of St. Francis. The Very Rev. Optatus Loefiler, OJ'.M., minister provincial of Sacred Heart Province of the Franciscans, pre­sided, and the Rev. Maximus Poppy, O.F.M., national secretary of the Third Order of St. Francis in the United States, delivered the address which accompanied the presentation of the letters of affiliation which had been issued in Mr. Martin's behalf by the Most Rev. Leonard Bello, O.F.M., minister general of the entire Order of Friars Minor, who resides in Rome. 
Affiliation to the First Franciscan Order is an honor but seldom con­ferred on a layman, and Sir. Martin is only the fourth to receive it in this country. It is equally rare in Europe. When it is conferred it is because of some unusual contribution which the recipient is deemed to have made to the Franciscan cause. In the case of Paul Martin, the distinction comes in recognition of his literary work dealing with the various phases of Franciscanism. He is the author of "The Gospel in Action" and co­author of "Survey of a Decade," two full-length books on the Franc­ciscan philosophy of life. In addi­tion he has written extensively for magazines and newspapers. 
1937-38 Slates For National Officers 
HONORARy PRESIDENT Very Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C., '88, Notre Dame 
PRESIDENT William E. Cotter, "13, New Rochelle, New Yorlc James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT George W. Burlcitt, '02, Houston Charles A. Mooney, Jr., '26, Cleveland 
DIREaOR FOR 4-yEAR TERM William J. Granfield, ' 13, Springfield, Massachusetts Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago 
The nominations this year—sub­mitted by two committees composed of John P. Murphy, chairman, Joseph 
M. Byrne, and Ernest P. LaJoie; and Byron V. Kanaley, chairman, Angus 
D. McDonald, and Henry I. Dock­weiler — reflect the wisdom inherent in the committees, themselves veter­ans of the association. 
No one interested in continuing the progress of the association can hesi­tate to commend the selections listed above in the alphabetical order pre­scribed by the constitution. 
Honorary President 

Father James Burns, C.S.C., pro­vincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States, is best remembered by alumni as a teacher, as president of Notre Dame from 1919 to 1922, when he assumed direc­tion of the Notre Dame endowment campaign that launched the greater Notre Dame. 
President 

William E. Cotter, legal counsel for the Union Carbide and Carbon Co. in New York City, was most ac­tive as a student, and carried that activity on into the program of the Notre Dame club of New York City. He has been a frequent visitor on the campus and maintains close contact with Notre Dame despite his New York residence. 
James E. Deery, a director in the association, prominent Indianapolis attorney, former national president of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, former national secretary of the Na­tional Council of Catholic Men, and a leading Knight of Columbus, is not only close to Notre Dame in spirit and in geography, but has, through his fraternal work, and through membership on the board of direc­tors, achieved a fine understanding of the association problems. 
First Vice-President 

Terence B. Cosgrove, Los -Angeles, has been active in the Notre Dame program of the Los Angeles club. He is an attorney and has won national fame in his handling of cases involv­ing water rights in that important field in southern California. 
Harry F. Kelly, Detroit, has won a great deal of prominence in Detroit, as an attorney and as a Notre Dame alumnus, since coming there a com­paratively few years ago from Otta­wa, Illinois. Harry has been actively a part of- the Notre Dame club of Detroit. 
Second Vice-President 

George W. Burkitt, Houston, has been a staunch Notre Dame repre­sentative in Houston, and his activity is eloquently reflected in his current honor by the Holy Father with a Knighthood in the Order of the Holy Sepulchre. 
Charles A. Mooney, Cleveland at­torney, the youngest candidate, has been a most active member and officer in the Notre Dame club of Cleveland, one of the livest organizations in the local club groups. 
Director 

William J. Granfield, Springfield, Mass., has been one of the outstand­ing Notre Dame figures in New Eng­land. He recently retired from a most successful career in Congress to re­sume his work in law in his home state. 
Francis H. McKeever, Chicago at­torney, has long been one of the bul­warks of the Notre Dame club of Chicago. His activity is reflected no further back in its historj' than this current year when he was the key man in the lecture series sponsored by the club. 
These thumb-nail sketches do not begin to do justice either to the Notre Dame or the general record of the candidates. But they will simply serve to identify them so that you can recall the many times their names have appeared in the news as participating in the activities that go into the progress of Notre Dame and the association. 
Debaters Are 


Successful 
Professor Coyne Coaches Squad 

Contesting the varsity question, "Resolved: That Congress should have the power to fix minimum wages and maximum hours for industry," In 19 intercollegiate debates, the 1937 Varsity debating team won 11 deci­sions and dropped eight arguments, under the direction of Prof. William 
J. Coyne. 
Making a meritorious showing in the Midwest Invitational tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, by being placed in the upper 25 per cent as to rating, the affirmative team of Richard Meier and Robert Schmelzle won four out of five de­bates, defeating Iowa, Chicago, Kan­sas, and Creighton universities, and losing to Carleton college. Charles Osbom and Thomas Mulligan, de­fending the negative side of the ques­tion, defeated South Dakota univer­sity and lost decisions to Minnesota university, Texas university, Iowa university and Iowa State Teachers college. 
In the first of the dual debates with Michigan State, the negative team of Osbom and Mulligan de­feated the affirmative team of the Michigan school at Lansing. Prof. Hance, of Albion College, judged. The affirmative team of Schmelzle and Meier lost a decision to the Mich­igan State negative team at Notre Dame. Prof. J. H. McBumey of Northwestern university judged. 
In a contest at St. Mary's College the Notre Dame affirmative defeated -Alabama in a debate judged by Prof. 
J. D. Menchhofer of Michigan State College. 
Participating in the Delta Sigrria Rho tournament at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, the affirmative team defeated Wisconsin and West-em Reserve and lost to Wayne. The negative team won contests from .41­bion and Carleton and lost to Mar­quette. 
Debates with Indiana, Florida, St. Mary's college of California, and Swarthraore were non-decision con­tests. 
The debaters opened their sched­ule in a radio debate with Kent Col­lege of Law, of Chicago, over WLS, Chicago on the question: "Resolved: That the extension of consumers' co­operatives would contribute to public welfare," Notre Dame upholding the 
(Continued on Patre 226) 

By JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 
CAMPUS NOTES 
ELECTIONS 
In the spring a Notre Dame man's fancy turns grimly to thoughts of politics. It's impossible to walk about the campus without a second string campaign manager sidling up, blotter in hand, to whisper hoarsely: "How yuh lining up? Jo Blow's a good guy. Get on the bandwagon!" 
This year a new wrinkle is being utilized to the nth degree in campus politics—that of the slogan. Posters bearing candidates' names plead from every bulletin board: "Swing to Bing"; "Go With The Green"; "A Better Ball With Bohen"; "No More Dancin' With Anson"; "Let's Swing This Spring and Vote for Mulqueen"; "Push Gush"; "Don't Be Tardy, Vote All-Hall Party." 
An independent candidate, Bill Small, running without a ticket but amply supported by good ideas, has been distributing mimeographed let­ters signed by his supporters to his would-be constituents. Small pledges: "A Vote for Small is a Vote for AH"; "No Stallin' With Small In." . . . One of his posters shows two infants in conversation. "D i d you say BAWL?" queries Infant number one. "No, I said SMALL" is the answer of his youthful companion. 
One faction released a handbill stating: "Wanted, Nine Good Men For Senior Class Offices" followed by names of their candidates. Two hours later a rival group released broad­sides announcing, "Found, Nine Good Men, etc." 
The Law club, usually sedate and business-like when it comes to elec­tions, also has succumbed to the virus. No less than four candidates for the presidency are now in the field with numerous dark horses lurking on the sidelines needing only slight encouragement from a friend 
("Say, why don't jion run for presi­dent?") to throw themselves into the race. With campus clubs also run­ning vigorous campaigns, a simon­pure voter with no axe to grind is a rarity indeed. We're thinking of running for something, too, even if we have to form a new club. Our slogan ^vill be: "Cast Your Votes For Campus Notes." It's in the bag. 
WALSH WALLOPED 
Those demon softballers, the gen­tlemen of Walsh, have been having a great time on their unenclosed ball park between Walsh and Badin. One of their number "got hold of one," as he explained modestly later, and sent Outfielder Tom Condon, Buffalo, New York, racing back—^back until the aforementioned Condon had col­lided solidly with an umbrella tree. Emboldened by this display of power the G. of W. challenged Holy Cross Seminary to a game of baseball. The 
G. of W. looked good in infield prac­tice but during the game—Softball is more fun, anyway, say the G. of W. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
The Prefect of Discipline's office has been moved across the hall into more spacious quarters. . . The boys now can do all the trembling they want without also vibrating their companions. . . Late flash on elec­tions: The Bing Connor for-senior­president party has just distributed free copies of a local newspaper with a poster pasted on the front page reading: "Stay On the Front With Bing Connor!". . . Absentee ballots \vill be permitted for those unable to leave the infirmary on election day... 
SWING, SWUNG, SWING 
Senior Ball date, Jlay 7. . . Will Osborne ^vill play. . . Plenty of social activity with the Engineer's Ball, the Monogram Ball and the K. of C. Ball coming on consecutive week-ends. . . Boyd Kaebum's orchestra at the Monogram Ball tops any of the music we've heard at ND dances. . . That's just our opinion, or as Odd Mclntyre would say, "Add Personal Piffle". . . The Monogram Absurdities was a good show. . . Plenty of laughs. . . A campus Winchell was the honored guest at an informal lake party given by senior students of the College of Law. . . He exposed too many ro­mantic secrets of the lawyers. . . 
STUDENTS DISPUTE 
Rev. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C, head of the department of philosophy, has scheduled a student's philosophical disputation. . . This method of philo­sophical debate was successfully in­augurated last year. . . Two one-act plays presented by the University Theater in Washington hall were well received. . . They were "Thread O'Scarlett," by J. J. Bell, and "Hot Headlines" by Bertram Hobbs. . . . Frank Ciolino again scored as a lead­ing lady with his soprano version of "Edith Hastings". . . . 
JONES OR J. JAMES.? 
This will be news to Herb Jones, Notre Dame ticket manager, as well as all my avid readers. . . Several months ago Herb narrowly escaped being arrested as a pass^ of coun­terfeit money. .. . A warning had been issued to South Bend merchants to beware of a smooth confidence man passing new five dollar bills. . . Herb entered a down town shoe store, took practically the first pair of shoes 
shown him and then presented two new fives as payment. . . What his wife would say when he came home late apparently gave him a harried expression since the merchant took no chances. . . The bills were sent to a bank to discover if they were genu­ine while Jones waited innocently in the front of the store. . . How did we find out?. . . A good newspaperman never divulges the source of his in­formation. 
* 

FACULTY GOLF 
Entries for the annual handicap faculty golf tournament are being received in staggering numbers. . . If some of the boys can shoot golf scores as low as they pass out grades they should be wows. . . . John F. Wade, sophomore engineer from Glencoe, Illinois, would have won $800 had he attended a certain South Bend theater's Bank Night last month. . . . Mathematics Professor William L. Benitz passed his thirti­eth winter ^vithout having donned an overcoat or topcoat. . . . James E. Deery, '10, was the principal speaker at the Law club's annual banquet honoring the memory of the late Col. Hoynes. .. . St. Edward's college's Tamburitza orchestra entertained in Washington hall . . . According to the Scholastic: "A Tamburitza band is one consisting entirely of Slavonic string instruments, playing native folk songs and other airs". . . Now all we have to do is discover what a "Slavonic string instrument" is. . . 
THE "LAWYER" APPEARS 
The Notre Dame Laioyer, quarterly publication of the law school, made its third appearance of the year. . . Father O'Hara contributed the lead article, "Justice". . . . Father John Ryan, C.S.C, of the history depart­ment, has been elected secretary-treasurer of the LaSalle Memorial Commission. . . . Father Ryan was selected as a member of the commis­sion by Gov. Townsend of Indiana— Notre Dame observance of Music Week drew large crowds to Washing­ton haU. . . Five public concerts and recitals were presented. . . The new dormitory, now under construction, should be ready by next Sept. 15. . . A local grocer has built a model Notre Dame from canned goods, packages, lemons, potatoes, etc. 
•^•T^ 
•?5iS 
rr^ 
K^^^£^­
•" "i^ 
mf-'­
m^'i 
^15?, B"^» 

mt 
I^^AS,'"' * Pr)!^ 
^'is 
^^ 

PROF. F . X. ACKERMANN, 50-Ycars. 1887­Mcchanical Drawinff 
REV. W . A . BOLGER. OS.C., 26 Years. 1911-» Economics and Politics 
PBOF. ICNOU-LES B . SMITH, 29 Years. 1908­Mlnin? Enffineering 
REV. 1 L J. WALSH, cs.a, 28 Years. 1908-» History 
These Are the Faces That Launched . . . 
Ten Thousand Careers; Fourteen Present Faculty Mem­bers Have Influenced the Alumni of More Than a Quar­ter of a Century; Always Pleased to See Old Students. 
"Traditions are the real tapestries of all noble halls. Traditions claim and receive the plenary loyalty of all high and fine spirits. 'Our fathers have told us' is a slogan of all reverential — that is to say, the best — minds. It is almost a touchstone of refinement in a man to he mindful of the cave from which he was digged and the rock from which he was hewn. In theology tradition is a fount of revelation; in educa­tion tradition is a fount of culture. . ." These were words of the late Father Cavanaugh. 
These men here pictured are the Ii\ang traditions of Notre Dame. They have served school and student 25 years or more. 
Alumni frequently complain that the flood of time and progress has carried away the places and the faces they knew at Notre Dame. 
But here are fourteen faces that remain like buoys in the stream, to guide the navigator as they guided him these many years. 
Not one of these men fails to express his enjoyment and his appre­ciation of the thoughtfulness of the men who have gone from his dass­roora to their careers and who come back in person or correspondence to exchange greeting or reminiscence. 
To utilize the beautiful philosophy of Father Cavanaugh in this particular relationship, how vital to a Imng University that its alumni should be mindful of the intellectual caves from which they were digged by these teachers of Notre Dame, and these sculptors of the young mind who hewed them from their rocks. 
Come back to Commencement, June 4, 5 and 6. 
1 Father Bolgcr's five yeat^ at St. Thomas, 1928.33. did not remove his influence or his friendships from Notre Dame. 
- Prof. Caparo spent some time in teaching and studying in South America and one 
year in teaching at Carnegie Tech. ' Dr. Cooney taught a year in 1901-02. left, to return in 1911 to resume his teaching career. 
*
 Father Doremus was away from the University for two years in 1924-2G. " ^ 

*
 Father Walsh was President of tlie University, 1922-2S, and was on leave of absence, 1934-5. 


PROF. JOSE A. CAPARO, 25 Years. 1908-» Electrical Engineering 
RE\*. C. DOREMUS, C.S.C. 25 Years, 1910-* French 
PROF. ROB'T I^ E GREENE, 35 Years, 1902­Pliarmacy 
REV. TIIOS. IRMSC, CSJ^, 27 Years. 1910­Mathematics & Religion 

PROF. JOHN M. COONEY. PROF. JAMES HJNES, PROF. EDW. J. MATTRDS, PROF. F. W. KERVICK. PROF. WM. L. BENTTZ, PROF. REG. KACZMAREK, 27 Years, 1901-' 27 Years. 1910- 42 Years, 1895- 28 Years. 1909- 41 Yearj, 1896- 25 Years, 1912­Joumalism History Mathematics Architecture Mechanical Engineering Biology 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
Well below the high standard they set for themselves during Notre Dame's greatest athletic year, 1935­'36, the Fighting Irish spring sports teams are showing signs, as this issue of the ALUJINUS goes to press, of redeeming themselves in all sports before the month of May has ended. 
• 

TRACK 
The track team, thanks to Coach John Nicholson's sportsmanship, opened its dual meet season with a 68 to 63 defeat at the hands of Pitts­burgh. When Notre Dame had strong mile relay teams in the days of Alex Wilson, Pitt didn't want a relay. So it was omitted .from the program each year, including 1937. But, when the meet ended in a 63 to 63 tie and Coach Carl Olson of Pitt re­quested a relay to decide the out­come, "Nick" willingly complied. 
He knew that John Woodruff, Olympic champion at 800 meters, and Art Thomas, who had won the quar­ter mile, would form half the Pan­ther team, and that Notre Dame's chances were next to nothing. He was right—and Woodruff, after fight­ing off a game challenge from Pete Sheehan, hit the tape in front by four steps. The time was 3:22. 
But the meet was not OTthout its promise for the future. The Pan­thers are one of the strongest dual meet deals East of the Rockies, and several Irish performers showed what could be expected from them in later meets. 
Dan Gibbs, who won the Drake re­lays pole vault at 13 feet % inch, tied the Pitt-Notre Dame meet rec­ord of 12 feet 6 inches, took second in the low hurdles, and second in the javelin throw for high point honors. 
Bill Clifford, hero enough as it was, almost won the meet for the Irish. He set a meet record of 9.7 seconds to -whip Dick Mason, Pitt's 
I.e. 4-A champion in the century. He came back to lead Mason and Thomas into the last 10 yards of the 220 before cracking under the strain, Thomas winning in 21.4 seconds, 6/10 second under the previous meet record. 
Bud Faymonville, sophomore weight star, shattered the meet rec­ord in the discus throw with a toss of 146 feet 7 inches, only 13 inches under Tom Lieb's all-time Notre Dame record. Are you listening. Tom? Bud also took the shot put handily at 45 feet 4% inches. 
Steve Szumachowski, another soph­omore, lowered the meet record to 9 minutes 43 seconds in winning the two-mile event. John Francis pushed Woodruff to a meet record of 1:55 for the half. 
The absence of Bill Mahoney, who is still out with a pulled tendon, hurt Notre Dame in the hurdles. And Greg Rice, spunky little miler, holder of the all-time Notre Dame indoor record of 4:16.3, showed that he has not fully recovered from a throat in­fection of a month ago when he took third in a race which Woodruff won in 4:26.7. Whether he could have beaten Woodi-ufF is doubtful at best, but Rice at his peak, would have cov­ered the distance a full 10 seconds faster than Woodruff did in winning. 
Ken Eyden, Pitt sophomore who won both hurdle races, set a meet and Cartier field record of 23.9 sec­onds for the 220-yard low hurdles, shaving 1/10 second off the field mark which Gus Desch set in 1922. 
The track men still have dual meets with Navy, Ohio State, and Michigan State, the Indiana State meet at Notre Dame, May 29, and the outdoor Centrals at Milwaukee, June 4. 
• 

BASEBALL 
Coach Jake Kline's baseball team got off to a flying start by dumping Chicago, 16 to 9, and then nosing out a strong Illinois team, 7 to 6, in 13 innings. Chicago got its revenge, 7 to 2, a few days later, and Michi­gan State followed it up with a 7 to 1 victory. Meanwhile the first of two Northwestern games was cancelled because of rain, and a scheduled game with Purdue was postponed until May 25 for the same reason. 
Kline started the season with three pitchers and an outfielder from last year. His large turnout, 100-odd, 
Fellow Monogram Men: 
The annual dinner and meeting of the Monogram Club of Notre Dame will take place on Sunday, June 6, 1937, at 12 m. It is a great treat to fraternize for a brief hour with your former team­mates; to chat with the men of your time who carried the colors of Notre Dame in other sports and to become better acquainted with the fellows who came before and after you. Each year has brought an ever increasing attendance to these gatherings. Be sure to ar­range to be with us this year. 
FRED STEERS President of Monogram Club made it necessary for him to sort his material as rapidly as he could. Arms made sore by cold weather, and lack of practice occasioned by frequent rain and cold, combined to hamper development of his rookies. 

Team spirit flames high, however, and there is every reason to believe that once the Irish start to click they will finish well above the .500 rating they now hold. 
The pitchers have been somewhat less than devastating to date, Capt. Ennio Arboit, after hurting his arm pitching in sold weather, is gradually rounding into shape. Oscar (Lefty) Rydell and John Goncher have per­formed creditably. 
Al Kovzelove hasn't started hitting, but his backstopping is beyond re­proach. Jim Carson, hard-hitting first sacker, is out for at least three weeks with a shoulder injury in an accidental collision with Joe O'Neill. Andy Puplis has been playing credit­able ball at short stop. Meanwhile the second and third base spots have seen a parade of candidates try to win a permanent spot in" the starting lineup. 
Chuck (Browser) Borowski in cen­ter field and Johnny Moir in right apparently have their jobs sewed up although both are expected to im­prove at the plate. Moir got off to a great start against Chicago and Illi­nois, and has since hit a slight slump. Joe Nardone has the call at left field at this writing, the third man to start at the post. 
The schedule calls for a total of 18 games, winding up June 4 and 5, Commencement week-end, with two games with Iowa. 
GOLF The golfers have apparently shaken off their early season jitters and are again one of the most feared teams in the middle west. They tied at 9­all in their opener with Washington 
U. of St. Louis. To prove this was all a mistake, they took a 17 to 1 fall out of Chicago. An unheralded Pur­due team, however, handed Notre Dame its worst defeat in history, 13 to 5, at Lafayette before the Victory March could again be played for the linksmen. Ohio State fell, 14 to 7, as the Irish warmed up to their tasks, and Minnesota, one of the strongest teams in the conference this year, lost a 20 to 7 decision at Slinneapolis. 
Matches remai n with Detroit, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Michigan State, and Illinois, all of which the 
(Continucil on Tape 226) 

ST. "J€E" liALL CCUNI€N 
June 4, 5 and 6 
Tentative Program. 
(See Commencement Program for other features) 
FRIDAX: 

Rooms to be reserved exclusively for St. "Joe" Hallers in the old bailiwick. 
SATURDAY: 

5:00 P. M.—Informal meeting in "St. Joe Rec." (Badin Hall, North Entrance). (Vour old pennant may be there.) 
6:00 P. M.—^Alumni Banquet, Special "St. Joe" tables. 
SUNDAY: 

REUNION COMMITTEE 
8:00 A. M.—Mass for deceased rectors and St. "Joe" Hallers, 
REV. RAYMOND MURRAY, C3.C, 
living and dead. (Badin Hall Chapel). 
Notre Dame. Chairman 

VITUS JONES, South Bend I 1:45 A. M. (following Flag Raising Exercises) — Brief informal DAN O'CONNOR. Chicago 
assembly at "the turn" in the old kitchen, followed by a BOB PROCTOR, Ellhart DON O'KEEFE. Detroit 
pilgrimage to the graves of departed rectors. 
JIM SANFORD, Chicago JIM O'BRIEN, Detroit 
12:30 P. M.—Special St. "Joe" Hall luncheon in Faculty Dining JOE DONAHUE. South Bend JIM BOLAND. South Bend 
Room, second floor of. University Dining Hall. ("Head Table 
REV. JOHN REYNOLDS, OSC.. 
Coffee" for everybody. Some of the famous "Wash Room" 
Notre Dame 
orators will be shouted down.) 
(Rev.) RAYMOND MURRAY, C.S.C., 
Reunion Committee Chairman 
ALUMNI CLUBS . » > 
Clubs Report Fine Response on U. N. D. Night 
The eighth annual meeting of the council of local alumni clubs will be held at 11 A.M., Saturday, June 5, in the court room of the College of Law. Every club is urged to have a delegate present, and all interested in club organization are welcomed to attend. 
AKRON 
Frank E. StccI. '25. 327 Wildwood Ave.. President: Jnmes B. Coulter, ex. '30, 595 Carroll St., Secretary. 
Official Notre Dame Night, April 19, is past and the Akron Club keeps going. 
The following officers were elected for the coming year: Frank Steel, president; Glen Smith, vice-president; James Coulter, secretary; Michael Stoley, treasurer. 
We had a very interesting and peppy meeting. Quite some time was devoted to the discussion of the anti-Communistic movement now being launched by the alumni at Notre Dame. 
Since our recent luncheon meeting at which Mr. Hughes gave us the fine address, we have had several requests for speakers on this subject. If you have available speeches on material, we would appreciate having some, as we have volunteer speakers who would be glad to render them. 
The balance of our meeting was 
The 1936-37 Board 
Arthur J. Hushes, 'II , Chicago, 111 President Ray J. Eichenlaub, "15, Columbus, Ohio First Vice-President Henry I. Dockweiler, '12, Los Angeles, Cal Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary Fred L Steers, 'II , Chicago, III Director io 1937 James E. Deery, "10, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe, '03, Detroit, Mich Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J Director to 1940 Bernard J. Voll, "17, South Bend, Ind Director to 1937 (ex-officio) Joseph Waldron, '36, Trenton, N.J Director to 1937 
The 7936-37 Disfrict Governors 
Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind Fred L Steers, 'II , Chicago Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell. '17, Pittsburgh, Pa Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, Minneapolis. Minn Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich 
B. K. Wingerter, "26, East Orange, N. J Hugh A. O'Donnell, "94. New Vork City John J. Huether, '22, Schenectady, N. Y Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass Anselm D. Miller, '25, Roanoke, Va Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala William Reisert, Jr., "29, Louisville, Ky Cyprian Sporl, Jr., '28, New Orleans, La. 
D. Patrick Buell, '24, Dallas, Texas Daniel F. Foley, '23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan Clarence Ruddy, "27, Aurora. Ill Earl W. Brown, '93, Helena, Mont. James P. Logan," '18, Denver, Colo Anton R. Hebenstreit, 'II , Albuquerque, New Mex 
W. Breen McDonald, ' 17, San Francisco, Calif. Samuel M. Dolan, '10, North Bend,.Ore To be elected 
 District I  District 1  District 3  District 4  District 5  District 6  District 7  District 8 1 District 9  :District 10  District 11 
' District 12  District 13  District 14  District 15  District 16  District 17  District 18  District 19  District 20  District 21  District 22 

taken up by stories of the old days spent on the campus. Walter Miller, from Cleveland, was down and spent the evening with us and made a gen­erous contribution of stories. 
Jame* Coulter. 

ARIZONA 
Vincent HenKcsbach, ex.'Zt, 1710 E. 2nd St, Tucson, President: Ted A. Witi, ex.'29. Box 
628. Tncsoa.- Secretary. 
ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Ijncoln Ave.. Little Kock. Ark., Secretary. 
BENGAL 
Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C!.. '02, Dacca. Bengal. India. President; Rev. J. J. Kennessey, &S.C.. '02, Dacca, Bengal. India. Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Eugene O'TooIe. '20, 321-325 State St. St Joseph. President; Frank A. Ddtle. *26, 1S8I S. CoIfa:c. Benton Harbor, Secretary. 
Monday, April 19, brought an­other Universal Notre Dame Night and another meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Berrien County. This meeting was held at Varesio's near Nlles. About 25 members were present. 
Father Francis Wenninger, dean of the College of Science at the Uni­versity, was the principal speaker of the evening. Father Wenninger out­lined progress being made in his de­partment and in the field of science in general. 
Maurice Weber, of St. Joseph, was the chairman of the evening. Maurie called on the following men for brief talks: Father Day, of Three Oaks; Chet McGratb, of St. Joseph; and Art Holton, of St. Joseph. Art drove all the way from Lansing to be present. 
In closing I must add that it was due to the efforts of Gene O'TooIe, Tom Guinas and John Jauch that this meeting was such a success. 
Frank A. Deitle. * BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari, '35, Center St. Pembroke. Mass.. President; John J. Hanlcy. '34, 40& Salem St , Medford. Mass., Secretary; Paul McManus. '34. Fox & Hounds Club. Boston. Mass., Secretary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night marked the be^nning of a new Notre Dame era in Boston. For the first time in almost five years the club met at the Hotel Lenox. 
. Called together by John J. Hanlejr, 
erstwhile track manager of '34, and Jim Bowdren, track captaiE of '35, met to initiate a little activity among our long lethargic group. 
The following officers were elected: president, Fred SoUri, '36; vice-pres­ident. Jack Saunders, '31; treasurer, Jim Bowdren, '35; secretaries, John 
J. Hanley, '34, Paul McManus, '34; trustees, Charles Crowley, '13, Joe Gargan, '17, Ed Collins, '03. 
Under the circumstances, the turn­out was most encouraging and at our next meeting, on May 20, at the Fox and Hounds Club—our headquarters from now on—we expect 75 to 100 to be present. We're trying to get some movies of the football games, and hope to have a few prominent sports writers present to speak. 
Present at the meeting the other night were: Andy Scafati, '31, teach­ing and coaching in his home town; Glynn Fraser, '34, who as president of the Boston group of the Catholic Poetry Societj' of America, had just brought Hilaire Belloc to town to talk on the war in Spain; Fred So­lari, '36, in the insurance business and doing very well; John Busichio, '3C, at Harvard Law School; Jim Bowdren, '35, Ed Cullen, '35, Joe Gartland, '27, Jim Harris, and Joe Sheeketski, '33, coaching at Holy Cross; Jack Saunders, '31, Art Mc-Manmon, '31, George O'Brien, '35, eastern representative of the Lion Breweries, Frank Murphy, and Mike Forastiere, both at Boston Law School; and finally the undersigned, who, daily guiding the destinies of the wine and liquor department of the Fox & Hounds Club, demands to be recognized as spiritual director of that institution. 
Paul McManus. 
BUFFALO 
George E. Doyle, Jr., '30. Liberty Bank Bide., President; Bobert Mcaser, *3i, Am­herst Bee Co., Main & Rock Sts., Williams-ville, N. Y., Secretary. 
Eclipsing all previous, the fourth annual Easter Monday dance of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo was held March 29 in the Terrace room of the Hotel Statler. Over 175 cou­ples attended. 
Dancing was enjoyed to the music of Gene Regan's orchestra, and at midnight a smart revue was present­ed through the courtesy of Harry Altman of the Cafe Savarin. 
One of the highlights of the eve­ning was the presentation of a scroll to John Moir, of Niagara Falls. George E. Doyle, Jr., president of the dub, read the scroll before making the presentation. Other celebrities introduced were Jim Britt, WBEN Socony sports broadcaster, and Steve Banas, former football star. 
The reception line was made up of the present officers and past presi­dents of the organization. Included in the line were Mr. and Mrs. Doyle; Mr. Jay L. Lee, the founder and first president of the club, together with his daughter. Miss Mary; Mr. and Mrs. J. F. O'Marah; 5Ir. and Mrs. Henry L. Bums; Mr. and-Mrs. Robert Moore, and Mr. and Mrs. John G. Byrne. 
The club was honored by having Governor and Mrs. Herbert H. Leh­man, of New York State, acting as patrons for the affair. 
Other patrons were Justice and Mrs. Samuel J. Harris, of the Su­preme Court Chamber of Buffalo, Mr. and Mrs. Leon Lancaster, J. Eugene McMahon, Dr. Eugene J. Lippschutz, Mr. and Mrs. George E. Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. John G. Byrne, Mr. and Mrs. W. E. O'Brien, Mr. and Mrs. John F. Connelly, Miss Alice A. Lynch, and George J. and Robert S. Measer. 
The chairman of the affair wants to take this opportunity of thanking not only the patrons and patronesses of the affair, but also all who attend­ed and who aided in any way in making the dance the successful event that it was. 
Bob Measer. 
* 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-III.) 
Frank J. Galvin, "23, First Trust Bldg.. Hammond, President: Fred J. Solman, Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Calu­met District observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner meeting at Phil Smidt's Fish House, Hammond. 
The annual election of officers was held with the following results: Frank Galvin, of Hammond, assumed th presidency; Clarence Bader, of Gary, was elected vice-president; Hugh Carroll, of East Chicago, treas­urer; and Fred Solman, of Ham­mond, secretary. 
Father E. J. Mungovan, of All Saints Church, Hammond, was re­elected chaplain of the club. 
Guest speakers included John Whitaker, sports editor of the Ham­mond Times, Frank O'Rourke, and Emmet Murphy, of De LaSalle High School, Chicago. 
Announcement of the John O'Bri­en Memorial Game to be played May 2, was made, and tickets for the game were sold to those present. 
One of the high-lights of the meet­ing was the nominating speech made by John Wallace, who led a re­volt against the regime of the Class of '16, headed by Tim Gainn and Pat Maloney. The dass of '16 was able to save the office of treasurer for Hugh Carroll by strenuous efforts and eloquent oratory. 
Before the meeting adjourned a golf party at the Crown Point Coun­
try Club on June 19, was announced, and all members urged to attend. 
F. J. Solman. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Richard S. Walsh, '31, 2191 Plaza. Schenec­
tady, N. Y., President; John B. Land. 'Si. 
4 Hedgewood Ave., Schenectady, Secretary. 
The boys are all prepared for the year's annual event-^Universal Notre Dame Night. We are having a din­ner at Eoger-Williams restaurant, Albany. 
Edward Eckert, '31, announces his engagement to Miss Buchanan, of Albany. 
Had a letter from ex-roommate, the Milwaukee Bill Fromm a few days ago. Bill is a sales engineer with the Dumore Company in Racine. 
John B. Land. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes, "16, 1910 Oakland St., Lansinir, President; J. Harvey Gauthier. '30, Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 
I have finally got a job in an engi­neering office after five years of try­ing. Was transferred to the Plant Engineers office of the Fisher Body Corporation, Lansing Division, from the Payroll Department about a month ago. The other day Ed Lyons was in the plant. He is with the Duplex Truck Company of this cit}'. Everything is on the up and up now, so he says. 
Joe Davey, '33, is now running his own business in the big city of Alma, Michigan. Got a letter from him some time back and he .says to tell everybody to stop in at the Western 

•Auto Supply store when up his way. Bob Hughes, '34, is spending his time trying to learn the paint business and keep up on all basketball dope from far and wide. Doc. Ed Hermes is city physician, and doing a grand job of it. 
Tom King and Charlie Bachman have had to take their future football hopes inside for a while, because of high water. Their practice field was swamped the other day and their campaigners have to study their fun­damentals in the field house now. 
Joe Stack is out to State with them and goes under the title of professor. Leo Faver (Dewitt) is working at the Olds Motor Works in the Electrical Division. Received a letter from Rem! Renier, '32, (Detroit), and he tells me that he is trying to extend his father's lumber business in East Dearborn. He also informs me that he is planning a big day early next month by being the groom in a mar­riage ceremony. Father Leo Sczy­dowski is the pastor of the local Pol­ish parish. 
G. B. Linn. 

May, 1937 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, '28, Perth Amboy Nat'l. Bank Bide-. Perth Amboy, President: Jonn Liaicki, '31, 215 Water Street. Perth Amboy, Secretary. 
(Lawrence Perry, the widely-known sports writer, attended the U.N.D. Night observance of the Central New Jersey Club and he was so impressed that he did the follo\ving significant piece of writing for his syndicated column, "For the Game's Sake." Needless to say, the writing speaks for itself.—Eds.) 
(CbpyriEht, Consolidated Press) 

The other night when Notre Dame graduates throughout the country were foregathering in various cities to celebrate "Universal Notre Dame Day," the wTiter found himself one of a crowd making its way through the dark streets of Rahway, N. J., to the local Elks Club where the newly organized Union County alumni were to hold their first dinner. 
It is a very nice club and very, very e.xclusive apparently. At least the loyal sons of the Irish institution were confronted by locked doors and other indications of inhospitality un­til around in the back, guarding a portal, was found a man of rounded girth and altitudinous stature. 
"Notre Dame?" he asked in a low, suspicious voice. 
"Quite so," was the reassuring re­sponse of Barrister McDonough of Plainfield who recently was one of Jersey's attorneys general. 
Back flew the bolts and gratefully the alumni of South Bend emerged from grisly darkness into the sub­dued lights of a pleasant club en­vironment. Presently you found yourself surrounded by some fifty grads ranging in age from the early twenties to the late fifties; they came from Plainfield, Elizabeth, Westfield, Union, Cranford, Perth Amboy, and points less known. Shepherded by Joe Nulty, who helps run the county Probate Court, the company wended its way downstairs to a basement dining room where very shortly pro­ceedings ensued which filled this writer, accustomed to years and years of alumni feasts, with emotions bor­dering upon sheer bewilderment. 
For here was a meeting of old grads so differing from all occasions of the sort ever experienced as to formulate among other impressions one of sheer novelty. 
First, there was no cheer leader. So no one cheered. No one rose in his place to demand a long, long yell for old Notre Dame. On a nearby dais was a piano. But no one went near it. Like the harp that once through Tara's halls, it was silent throughout the night. No one slapped a fellow classmate, not seen in a long time, on the back. In brief, the temper of the function was sedate, dignified; it could easily have been a The Notre Dame Alumnus 
foregathering of the Union County 
bar. 
President McDonough set the post prandial keynote in a thoughful ad­dress setting forth the object of this national rally of sons of the Irish institution and then called upon Fa­ther Deegan, of St. Joseph's College across the lake from Princeton, who delivered a scholarly analysis of the campaign the Roman Catholic Church against Communism and urging the ardent co-operation of all Catholics. 
Mayor Walker, of Eahway, said 

that his city was well pleased to have Notre Dame alumni meet there, and that any time they wanted to come here again they would be welcome and there would be no need of turn­ing on the parking lamps of their cars. Whereupon, the present scribe, who shares a defect common to most old grads of never having gro^vn up, committed the solecism of delivering a raucous Notre Dame yawp and in general turning on some typical old grad heat. But, inasmuch as this seemed to touch off some gunpowder, the wi-iter walked out into the mid­night darkness of Rahway wondering whether Notre Dame's Union County alumni were intent upon setting an example in ordered dignity and a very agreeable individual restraint or whether, when this new organiza­tion is older, it will differ in nowise from older ebullient old grad organ­izations of whatever college and in whatever locality. Somehow the writer hopes it will. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hoster Realty Bid?., Columbus, President. 
The Notre Dame University Club of Central Ohio enjoyed the evening of April 19 in a stag party at Colum­bus. We hope that this program for Universal Night can be continued and even elaborated. 
Ray J. Eichenlaub. 

CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
Leonard Burns, '25, 1635 20th Ave., Altoona. 
Pa.. President: William McAleer, '31, 1518 
19th Ave., Aitoona, Pa„ Secretary*. 
CHICAGO 
Francis J. Oelerich. Jr., '32, 864 Larrabee St., Chica{?o, President: George A, Brauti-Ean. '29, i n W. Washington St, Chicago, Secretary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night, held at the Knickerbocker Hotel, turned out to be the club's best perform­ance in many a day. Under the careful guiding hand of James T. Igoe, Jr., appointed chairman for the evening, and assisted by a capable committee, that worked day and night for the success of the party, we were favored by the arrival of such eminent men as Harry Grabiner, taking care of the baseball interests; George Keogan, coach of Notre Dame's national basketball cham­pions, with a fine display of movies of the game at Madison Square Gar­dens; and none other than the "Where's Elmer?" Notre Dame's stellar football coach; all of whom amused the 800 guests to the fullest satisfaction. 
Jimmy (Schnozzle) Durante and Joe E. Brown, from that well known place called Hollywood, caused a great commotion with their witty stories. From the United States Dis­trict Attorney's Office, we had none other than Michael L. Igoe, who in his inimitable way, carried on in fine style. Arthur J. Hughes, national alumni president, reviewed the work of the Alumni Association, and ad­mitted a little prejudice for the local organization. And when you consid­er that Warren Brown, the brilliant toastmaster of many Notre Dame gatherings, was at the helm with his clever introductions and unique stor­ies or mirth, it goes without further saying that comment is limited to ex­plain in full another perfect Univer­sal Notre Dame Night. 
Thanks goes out again from the club to James T. Igoe, Jr., chairman, and the men associated with him on his committee, for making the 1937 Universal. Notre Dame Night an event not soon to be forgotten. 
Jim Doyle, recently appointed as chairman of the luncheon committee, is working on plans for May 6, at the Morrison Hotel; and the event is named the Roosevelt Luncheon. From early rumors the luncheon has all the indications of being another Universal Notre Dame Night in min­iature. 
* 

CINCINNATI 
Frank H. Sweeney, ex. '17, Kemper Lane Hotel, President: Qarcnce Brink. "31, 1306 Cryer Ave., Hyde Park, Secretary. 
* 

CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny, '28, 1660 Warren Road, Lakewood, Ohio, President: Lawrence Krai, 
•31, 276 E. 272 St., Cleveland. Ohio, Secre­tary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the Cleveland Athletic Club on April 19 and was attended by some 85 Notre Damers and guests. Chuck Mooney and Nick Ruffing were in charge and did valiant work to insure the good turnout. Toast­master Mooney brought the attention of the group to the Johnny O'Brien Memorial Fund and an extemporane­ous response brought over $50 to the fund. 
Following which we heard from Father Mike Moriarity who, to OUT mind, fears no comparison as an af­ter dinner speaker, and the guest speaker, the able Pat Manion. In Pat's inimitable way he re-impressed and recalled to our minds the nation­al grasp, so to speak, that Notre Dame men have upon public opinion in all things. It was important, there­fore, he pointed out, that we proceed sanely and soberly, in other words emphasizing the manner and not the speed. And following Pat's talk we listened to the national hook-up fea­turing Father O'Hara and Elmer Layden. 
Larry Krai. 

We launched our anti-Communistic program on Tuesday, April 13, in the Cathedral Latin auditorium. Chairman Tom Byrne secured the sei-vices of Alumni President Art Hughes and Alumni Secretarj' Jim Armstrohg to equip US with the nec­essary weapons for combating the evils of Communism. Art laid down a good and solid background and of­fered suggestions as to how we might proceed; and to give us a toe­hold in the Cleveland area Tom Byrne announced tivo pi-izes of $25 each for the two best essays on anti­Communism—one to be awarded to the local Catholic colleges, and one to be awarded to the local Catholic high schools for the best essay sub­mitted by any student in his respec­tive group. 
We held our Eockne memorial Mass as St. Paul's Shrine and then moved over to the University Club for breakfast. Father Hugh O'Don­nell, Father Mike Moriarity and Jimmy Crowley were the principal speakers, and the affair was engi­neered by the pair of capahles, Tom Conley and Don Miller, who had the satisfaction of seeing 85 sit down to breakfast. Tom was toastmaster, and President Canny spoke. 
Chet Brumleve, energetic GE man, has been promoted to Dayton. Ted Wrockledge, southern branch mana­ger for Proctor and Gamble and former Clevelander, was in town for a business and pleasure vacation. 
Dutch O'Day, the gentleman plumber with the Clow Gas Steam Radiator, journeyed to White Sulphur Springs for a golfing vacation. The weather being what it was, Dutch came back snow-blind and mad. Mar­ty Cornelia, the Prudential live wire, has stepped into the mortgage busi­ness, too, and declares, without bat­ting an eye, that he can save from 
M to 2% a year on mortagages. Ed Masterson, the Patterson Sargent paint man,. is located in Cleveland again, after a strenuous sales cam­paign in Detroit. 
Jim Uprichard won a handsome topcoat in a handsome sweepstake contest conducted locally and figura­tively speaking, Jim says it's the luck of the Irish. Mrs. Pat Canny in a formal statement declares, "As of April the 18th, whether skill is para­mount or not, I'm a golf widow." 
Ray T. Miller, former mayor, is very busy as this is written, as one of the leaders in the Catholic Char­ity Drive which is led by Father Mike 
Moriarity. 
Among the latest bridegrooms is Gene Millif, who took the step and who will spring for the drinks when he returns from his honeymoon in Miami Beach. Dick Mahony is work­ing hard in the Sanitary Engineer­ing Department for Cuyahoga Coun­ty, and Dick helps to increase those special assessment taxes. 
Dan Sammon has given up his pri­vate pi-actice to gain experience as assistant police prosecutor. On the other side of the fence are John But­ler and Jerry Miller, assistant county prosecutors. 
Joe Gavin's Holy Name High School basketball team tied for the city championship in the campaign just ended. The Howard Richards proudly announce the birth of a baby girl. The genial Judge Carberry is selling for the Standard Envelope Co. and is conducting a private venture, a pamphlet called "Doing Cleveland," due for publication soon. 
Larry Krai. 

* CONNECTICUT VALLEY William A. Hurley, '28. 70 Montrose St. 
Sprinfffield. Mass., President; Francis A. 
Aheam, '27, c.o Hartford Times, Hartford, 

Conn., Secretary. The Connecticut Valley Club con­tinues as one of the most active or­ganizations in the alumni association. 
On March 5, with Bill Hurley in charge of ari-angements, a gathering of approximately 200 met at the Hotel Bridgway, Springfield, Massa­chusetts. Featured were the motion pictui'es of the 1936 Notre Dame football season, which were thorough­ly enjoyed. The club had as its guests about 150 high school boys, and judg­ing from their "ah's" and "oh's" the affair can rightfully be called a success. 
Notre Dame Night on the Pontiac Radio broadcast was well received. Among those present at this gather­ing were Paul Castner, '23, who will be permanently located at Hartford, Connecticut, in the near future as general manager of a parking meter company. Mr. Castner gave a brief talk and assured the members of his most active participation in the fu­ture activities of the club. The club is happy to have Mr. Castner in its midst. 
Art Parisien, '31, came down from Haverhill, Massachusetts to be with the boys, and it was a fine re-union for many members. Art promised to be with us on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Many new faces were present at this gathering among whom were: Ray Shea, '35; K. Lewis Dunn, '35; James P. O'Connor, '32; Vernon Te­trault, '36; Philip Walker, '36; Dr. Tom Ferriter, '30; Dr. Manhill Men­ziei, a friend of the University; Harry Gaffney, '35; George McGrath, '35; Robert Brennan, '35; John Wa­ters, a student in '25 and '26; and Tom Dunn, '35. 
Universal Notre Dame Night, on April 19, was celebrated with a din­ner at the Hotel Band, Hartford, Connecticut. The following mem­bers were present: Rev. Patrick T. Quinlan, chaplain of the club; Tom Curry, Cy Gaffney, Bill Hurley, Tom Ferguson, Francis Ahcam, Tim Mur­phy, Jack Corney, John Cianci, John Lynch, George Erwin, Matt Meshill, Everett Noble, Harry Deegan, Frank Laraia, Tom Dunn, John Sullivan, Tim Hinchey, Jim Hayes, Art Pari­sien, Frank Farrell, Tom Griffin. As new comers to the club, we were happy to have with us, Jim Flaherty, '27; John Cavanaugh, '28; and John Fagan, '28. 
The annual election of officers was held, and the foUomng men were chosen to guide the club for the year 1937-1938: president, William A. Hurley, '28; vice-president, Timothy Murphy, '23; secretary, Francis T. Aheam, '27; treasurer, John B. Sul­livan, '29. 
President-elect Hurley urged the members to continue their active in­terest in the club, and in this way to help keep alive their contact with the University. The members were also urged to pay their annual dues to the University. (To this a member hu­morously remarked that if the mem­bers paid their dues, the ingenious methods of Jim Armstrong in solicit­ing pajnnent of dues would cease, as would also his enjoyment.) 
The club accepted the invitation of our chaplain, Father Quinlan, to attend Communion in a body on Sun­day, June 13, at his parish in Bloom­field, Connecticut. 
It was voted to hold our annual spring dance, June 19, at the Hotel Bond Roof Garden, at Hartford, Con­necticut. Frank Laraia will be in charge of arranging for this dance. 
The Connecticut Valley club went on record endorsing Attorney Thom­as B. Curry, '14, of Hartford, Con­necticut, for district governor. This is an honor that Mr. Curry distinctly deserves, and for which the club in a very short time will formally make application. 
John M. Cianci. 
* 

DALLAS 
James P. Swift, '24, 1202 Southwestern Life 
BIdff., Dallas, President: Francis A, McCul­
loucli. '.lO, 917 First National Bank Bids., 
Dallas, Secretary. 

* DAYTON EuBene Mayl. "24, 400 IrvinB Ave., Presi­
dent : William Cronin, '29, 418 Crafton Ave., 
Secretary. 

Word from Bill Cronin says that the Dayton Club celebrated Univer­sal Night with a dinner in the Bilt­more Hotel, followed by cards and refreshments and a smoker. The food included cheer leader fruit salad a la Murphy, smothered chicken Bau­jan style, Shea buttered potatoes, lima beans a Bauman, May! salad, apple pie a la Cronin and coffee. 
Station WHIO, in Dayton, put on a Notre Dame program from 8:15 to 
8:30 that night. Si Burdick, local sports announcer and sports editor, interviewed Baujan, Mayl and Cron­in. The club committee in charge of all the doings included Bill, as chair­man. Gay Haas, Frank Buhl and Andy Aman. 
* 

DENVER 
Robert A. Dick. '29. 931 11th Ave. Presi­dent; Harry Lawrence. '29. 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. 
* 

DETROIT 
Gilbert F. Schaefer. "26. 17380 Monica. Pres­
ident: John W. Brennan, "27. 632 Fisher 
Bids., Secretary. 
I was not able to attend the Uni­versal Notre Dame party but, from all reports, it was a big success. There were over 200 people there and they enjoyed music, dancing, re­freshments, food and entertainment. It was our private party of the year and everything was free. .A.11 ex­penses were paid out of the club treasury. A special invitation was extended, asking the men to bring their ladies, and a stag table was pro\'ided for those less fortunate. 
Time was taken out from 9:15 to 
9:30 to listen to Al Slaggert who spoke for fifteen minutes over WXYZ. Al arranged for this pro­gram himself, and it was broadcast over the entire Michigan network. He gave an extended talk, and we have heard many comments on it from outside. 
Time was also taken out between 10 and 10:30 to listen to the broad­cast from Chicago. It goes without saying that we were very proud as we listened to this program. 
I cannot give you any of the inti­mate details, but everyone assures me that Paul Dooley, as master of ceremonies, George Gettler, Mai Knauss, Louis Malone, Joe Norton, and Jack Breen certainly put on a good party. 
The -A.pril meeting was held on iVpril 5 at the University Club. It was sponsored by the Finance and Insurance Group, and the committee were—C. Marcellus Verbiest, Alfred 
C. Ryan and J. Howard Haley. The house was filled. 
President Schaefer reviewed for the members the various activities which had taken place and plans for the immediate future. He announced that the Lecture Series had been a financial as well as a social success. 
Al Ryan then took over the cere­monies. He had Hunk Anderson, now coaching at Michigan, and Tod Rockwell, sports writer for the Free Press. Al gave Hunk a rousing wel­come, and the fellows spontaneously rose from the table and shouted their gi-eetings. Hunk and Tod both gave rousing talks. 
If our entire gang could have been there I doubt if they would miss any more of our meetings. It is uncanny how these committees have succeeded, one after another, in putting on din­ner meetings that are admitted to be the most enjoyable activities that we have attended all season. 
The March meeting was held on March 1 at the University Club. It was the Rockne memorial dinner sponsored by the Monogram Men of Detroit, and the committee was made up of Gus Dorais, Joe Collins and Bud Boeringer. 
Gil Schaefer asked Jim O'Brien and Harry Kelly to explain our plans for an annual retreat at Manresa. This plan will renew an activity that was interrupted by the depression and a ver>' desti-uctive fire at the Re­treat House. Plans for the Notre Dame-University of Detroit basket­ball game and Universal Notre Dame Night were discussed and the meet­ing was then turned over to Gus Dorais. 
Our toastmaster's first expression was an enthusiastic welcome to De­troit of our alumni president, Arthur 
J. Hughes, our alumni secretary, Jim Armstrong and beloved Father Mac-Namara. Other guests included Ar­thur McGuire, who spoke to the club briefly about a definite program of Lay Catholic -Action, and Anthony Beck,editor of the Michigan Catholic, who has been a good friend of ours and who is definitely a very potent figure in Catholic Activity here in Michigan. 
Gus Dorais talked to the fascinated group about Rock and his close asso­ciation with him through many years. Many of his stories, I imagine, had never before been told to a large gathering. They were gems. Gus also introduced Art Hughes and Jim Armstrong, both of whom explained various phases of the -Association's program. 
The Febmary meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit was held February 1 at the University Club and was sponsored by the Medi­cal and Dental Group. The commit­tee included Dr. Harvey Brown, Dr. William Mulcrone and Dr. Stanley Insley. The tables were filled. 
A few moments of prayer in si­lence were offered for our beloved Bishop Gallagher who died a few days before. 
The club had promoted a luncheon on February 6 at the Intercollegiate Club in honor of the football coaches who were here for the Spring meet­ing. 
Dr. Harvey Brown introduced our speaker of the evening, Dr. Martin Hoffman, secretary of the Wayne County Medical Society and Director of Parole Clinic of Wayne County. Harvey presented him as an expert in the handling of mental case prob­lems, parole commissioner and a psy­chiatrist of national reputation. His talk justified the introduction. He left us xrith a new appreciation of the enormity of the problem con­fronting these men and a desire to help construct legislation that is badly needed. 
Just to show their versatility the committee then brought out Bud Shaver, snorts writer and ace jour­nalist of the Detroit Times. His talk was filled with delightful "inside" dope on athletics. Bud is the kind of newspaperman that makes boys want to take Journalism. 
John W. Brennan. 

DES MOINES 
Harry O'Boylc. '27. 2801 Grand Ave.. Presi­dent; Richard Hyde. '35. 678 26th St.. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Des Moines met -April 5 in a combined business and social meeting. We have begun makin g arrangements for Prexy Hughes' visit and everything is shaping up very well. Bishop Ber­gan is with us 100% and has gra­ciously consented to introduce Presi­dent Hughes. We have also arranged to have the meeting in one of the public high schools which should give us plenty of room for the good turn­out that we expect. 
We are also planning a dinner for the track team while it is here for the Drake Relays. We are looking for Elmer Layden to be here and also other Notre Dame coaches who may be in Des Moines for the Relays. 
Jim Shaw'* many friends will be glad to hear that he is up and around again after a serious illness. He was in the hospital for five weeks, but is getting along fine now. 
I am also pleased to report that Harold Klein has been rewarded with an assistant vice-presidency at the lowa-Des Moines National Bank. 
I have been out of town most of the winter so I am a little short on local news. However, I am now lo­cated in Des Moines again and hope to flash some hot news for the next issue. 
Dick Hyde. 
* 

DUBUQUE 
G. 1. Knuewald. *16. 321 Bank & Insnranc« Bldir., President; Henry I. TrenWe, '24. 189 
S. Booth St.. Secretary. 
218 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wysor Bids., 
Munctc. Ind., President: Alvis E. Grancer, 
« . 'SI, 617 S. Jefferson St. Hatford City, 
Ind., Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, President: Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jersey Zinc Co.. Research Dept., Palmerton, Secretary. 
* 

ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA Charles J. Wittman, '31. 621 Schenley Dr.. President: William K. Bayer, '36, 724 W. 10th St.. Secretary. 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth. '31, 723 Union Industrial 
Bide.. President: Donald F. MacDonald. '31, 
1631 W. Court St., Secretary. 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullivan. '24. 125 E. Suttenfidd 
SL. President; Maurice J. DeWald, '33. 2415 
Huburtus St., Secretary. 

GRAND RAPIDS George E. Ladwis. '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave.. 
N. W., President; Raymond J. Bonini. '27. 607 Atwood, N.E., Secretary. 

GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
John V. Diener, '09, Mayor of the City of 
Green Bay, President; John Clancy, ex. '35, 
625 S. Oay St., Secretary. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
John Bannon. '32, 2011 Sherwood Ave.. 
IiOuis\-ille. President: Raymond Naber. '33. 
417 S. Western Parkway. Louisville. Secre­
tary. 

This is my last letter as secretarj' of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Louisville as we elected an entirely new set of officers on Universal Notre Dame Night. One of the largest meet­ings of the year took place in the Brown Hotel. Ray Pfeiffer presided. 
A rising vote of thanks was accord­ed dance committeemen Mams Pope and John Bannon for their excellent work in promoting an Easter Dance. 
The subject of an annual dues was introduced and immediately became an important subject for a post­mortem examination. .4fter a de­bate—^that had the generous contri­butions of many of the members— the results were unanimously accept­ed; and the small sum of one dollar per year was the decision. 
When nomination of officers was called for many of the men took to the floor and ^'^gorously urged Mr. Pfeiffer to accept his renomination. Mr. Pfeiffer did not because, as he said, he believed that some one else should have the honorable title. Nom­ination and election then took place and the following officers were in­stalled: president, John Bannon, first vice- president, Tony Schreiner; sec­ond vice-president, Charles Schwart­zel; treasurer, Marns Pope; secretary, Raymond Naber. 
The new president expressed his appreciation for the faith that the members have in his ability to guide the club through the coming year. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and assured everyone that he would 
give his best. 
On motion of Russ Leonard loud applause was given the retiring presi­dent as a fitting tribute for his accom­plishments and a very successful year. 
After adjournment the members lingered for a light lunch and the pause that refreshes. 
John B. Ratterman, Jr. 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) Robert O'CallaBhan, ex. '16, Gocebic Na­tional Bank, Ironwood, President: Francis J, Vukovich, '35, Ridge St.. Ironwood. Mich.. Secretary. 
Through the facilities of our radio station, WJMS, our club was able to observ'e U.N.D. Night on April 18 from 1:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.—a day in advance. 
With the co-operation of Victor Lemmer and your alumni office, our president, Robert O'Callaghan, gave the program a lively start by having Bayne Cumniings play all the Notre Dame songs on the console organ at the Ironwood Theatre. 
The principal speaker of the pro­gram was B. E. Larson, attomey-at­law. Although a graduate of the University of Michigan and president of the local Michigan alumni club, it was not difficult for Mr. Larson to find something in common between the two schools to talk about. 
The program was concluded with a reading by Frank Vukovich, 
The club again wishes to thank all who aided in making this program possible. 
Regular U.N.D. Night was observed by the local members at the home of Robert O'Callaghan. A very good time was had by all. 
Frank Vukovich, 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M O. Bums. '86, 338 S. Second St., Presi­dent: Marc A- Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler BIdff.. Secretary. 
HARRISBURG 
Joseph Farrell. '15, Harrisburg. President: Robert M. Johnston, '33, City Chemist, Har­risburg. Pa., Secretarj-. 

Monday night, April 19, the Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg met at the Beach Front Hotel for a two-fold purpose. Of course, the primary reason was Universal Notre Dame Night, but it was also the first an­niversary of the existence of our local chapter. 
Dinner was served, during which we listened to the broadcast (and a fine program it was). President Ed Smith then called a short business meeting to elect officers for the com­ing year. 
Joe Farrell was named president. John McNeill, vice - president, and myself, secretary. 
Bill O'Toole, John O'Connor, Wal­
May. 1937 

ter Lutz, Dick O'Donnell and Joe Wasko made up the rest of the gang. 
We decided to meet every first Monday night of the month for din­ner. Also, that the iirst Sunday of every month be set aside as a (Com­munion Sunday. The club will re­ceive at the nine o'clock Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral. 
A club booster committee was ap­pointed; an educational program for­mulated; and a general discussion concerning a club retreat finished up the meeting. More about these after the next meeting. 
Robert M. Johnston. 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Joseph A. Lauerman. '31, 1975 Riverside Ave., Marinette. Wis.. President; Francis C. Boyce. e.r. '32. 1401 First Ave., S., Escan­aba, Mich., Secretary. 

Hiawathaland Club met on Univer­sal Notre Dame Night at the Delta Hotel, Escanaba, Jlicliigan. It was singularly an alumni group; all had degrees. We were few in number but strong in spirit. In attendance were Gerald J. Cleary, president, John Lemmer, Frank Mileski, Edward K. Ryan, Francis C. Boyce, Dr. Donald 
H. Boyce, all of Escanaba; Michael Khoury and Earl Leach, of Mar­quette; Norman C. Bartholomew and myself of Iron Mountain. 
The Lions Club, in the main dining room adjoining ours, surprisingly started us off with a rousing Victor}­March which brought our boys scram­bling to their feet. After a good din­ner and election of new officers we retired to Don Boyce's home to hear the broadcast and indulge in "remem­ber-whens" and "whats-doing-nows." 
We missed Henry Lauerman, of Menominee, and his brother, Joe, and cousin Frank, of Marinette. They had to be up early next morning for Henry's sister's wedding. We also missed William J. Clancy, municipal judge, of Menominee, Paul Kruez and the other fellows from Marinette and Menominee. 
Gerald Cleary is deputy state chairman of the Democratic state central committee and husband of the Escanaba postmistress. John Lem­mer is superintendent of the Esca­naba public schools. Frank Mileski is judge of probate for Delta County, second term. Francis Boyce is in the undertaking business, and Dr. Boyce operates a hospital, and is making a mark as an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist. Edward K. Ryan is back in "Esky" practising law after enjoy­ing two years in the Republican sta­bles as state inheritance tax expert. Harold Cleary is project engineer at Ewen, Michigan, for the Michigan State Highway Department. Lawrence Cleary is chief of the inheritance tax division in the state auditor general's department. (Tell Tom Shaughnessy to bring his millions to Michigan if he 
feels like dying. Lawrence and he always understood each other). 
Jack Erickson is in charge of the Cadillac^office for the Federal Depart­ment of Agriculture. James P. Stew­art, of Norway, is now in Lansing serving as an assistant attorney gen­eral. Among the fortunate boys swept up and landed on the roof by the Roosevelt typhoon is Michael J. Khoury, judge of probate for Mar­quette county. Mike left Iron Moun­tain about two years ago. Norman Bartholomew is thriving in the insur­ance business. 
The Gogebic Range Club in the far northwestern comer of the upper pe­ninsula has taken the majority of the members of the Hiawathaland Club. We don't blame them because it is 200 miles from Ironwood to Escanaba. 
Earl Leach, formerly of Grand Rapids, now of Marquette, is upper peninsula manager of Al Ryan's Uni­vei-sal Credit corporation. Raymond McGarry is an architectural engineer for the TJ. S. Treasury, temporarily in our midst, at Escanaba. 
We made a good showing in pay­ment of alumni dues this year; don't you think so ? 
New officers: Joe Lauerman, Mari­nette, president; ' Michael Khoury, Marquette, vice-president; Francis C. Boyce, Escanaba, secretary-treasurer. 
Edward J. Dundon. 

HOUSTON 
M. E. Waller. 'U, 1702 Stuart Ave. Presi­
dent: Raymimd B. Keatins. '35. 1810 Ster­
ling Bldg.. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Houston had a banquet in the Texas State Ho­tel, and the following members at­tended: 
Thomas A. Standish, Tom Need­ham, Ray Keating, Jack Powers, Mitchell J. Saleh, Leighton Young, George McHale, George P. Murrin, Brian S. Odem, H. G. Spiller, J. N. Powers, John C. Rhein, R. C. Scog­gins, R. D. French, Charles S. Atchi­son, T. F. Green, Jr., M. E. Walter. 
The new officers elected at the ban­quet are: president, M. E. Walter; secretary - treasurer, Ray Keating; vice-president, Charles Atchison. 
Masses will be said for Rockne, Johnnie (Tex) Young and Charles Atchison's mother. 
T. F. Green, Jr. 

INDIANAPOLIS Charles E. Mason. '26. Indiana Bell Tele­
phone C President; Prank P. McCarthy. 
•28. 819 N. Gray St. Secretary. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN Lester Wisda. '31, 1016 E. Ganson St. 
President: I-yman Hill, '29. 224 S. Mechanic 
St. Secretary. 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS Dr. Edward J. Mayer, '27, 301 Ruby St, 
President; Lawrence J. Dunda, ex. '33, 704 
N. Raynor Ave., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Joliet opened its observance of Universal Notre Dame Night with its annual Memorial Mass and Communion for the deceased members of the dub at 
6:45 on Monday morning, April 19, at St. Mary's Church. Breakfast fol­lowed the Mass. 
The program for the evening be­gan at 8:00 with a social gathering in the clubrooms in the West Pines Hotel, where members and guests lis­tened to Ed Mayer, '27, president, and Bob Duffy, '31, speak about the obsei-vance and meaning of Universal Notre Dame Night in a radio broad­cast from 8 to 8:15 o'clock over Sta­tion WCLS, Joliet, and to the nation­wide broadcast at 9 o'clock. Re­freshments and a good old-fashioned get-together in the true Notre Dame spirit also were features of the eve­ning. 
The John O'Brien Memorial Foot­ball Game, scheduled for May 2, is creating much interest among both club members and Joliet citizens. We are all looking forward to the game and to helping the most worthy cause for which it is being played. 
Plans for the Summer and for the duration of the year, somewhat ten­tative and subject, perhaps, to both change and addition, but nevertheless definite in mind, include: a first stag outing, Saturday afternoon, July 10; an outing for members and ^vives or friends, Saturday, July 31; a second stag outing, .A.ugust 21; a monthly dinner-meeting every third Tuesday at 6:30; an annual pilgrimage to Notre Dame and annual attendance at a football game in the Fall; four annual informal dances. 
Lawrence J. Dunda. 

KANSAS Alhert J. Gebert. '30. U. of Wichita, Wich­
ita. Kansas, President; Dan Welchons, '30, 
623 Elm St. Ottwa. Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) Robert Tyler. '29. 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas 
City, Mo., President; Charles E. Meyer, '29, 
420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo.. 
Secretary. 
The Kansas City Club celebrated Notre Dame Night in the traditional manner and we had a mighty fine crowd. 
John Dugan, chairman of our anti-Communism committee, and Bob Tyler spent 15 minutes on the air over KCMO. They both did a good job telling the people about Notre Dame, and Mr. Hughes' good work against subversive activity in the United States. 
Our celebration took place at En­gleman's Dutch Tavern. Their buffet service was excellent. Fathers Don­,nelly and Doyle, of St. Patrick's Church, were present, and Father Doyle has been appointed chaplain of our local club. 
Our committee has done some good work preparing for Arthur Hughes' visit. We are glad to know that Jim Armstrong is coming with him. Monsignor Jame* V. McKay 
•will preside at the meeting, which will be held at Kansas City's new municipal auditorium. We are plan­ning to have KCMO broadcast the entire program. Will report on this meeting later. 
Charley Meyer. 

LAPORTE, INDIANA Norman E. Dulce. '34, 304 Niles St, Presi­
dent; Robert E. Quinn, ex. '39, 1401 Monroe 
St, Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES Douglas Daley. '30. 781 Ceres Ave., Presi­
dent; Thomas Ashe. '31. 2413 Flower St, 
Huntington Park, Secretary. 
Alumni and former students whose names are not on the roster of the Los Angeles Club, and who live in the vicinity are asked to get in touch with —Tom Ashe, 241S Flower Street, Huntington Park, California. 
We celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night out here with the largest crowd that has ever attended a local Notre Dame meeting, and this de­spite the fact that there was no door prize nor Bank Night attraction. The celebration, held at the Mona Lisa Restaurant, took the form of a din­ner meeting, during the course of which we listened to the broadcast sponsored by Stadebaker. (After­wards Clarence Layden reported that this was the first time he ever heard Elmer over the radio). 
One of the speakers of the evening was Father Angelo, of the Passion­ist Monastery at Sierra Madre. The purpose of Father Angelo's visit was to tell us again about the annual Notre Dame Retreat and to sign up a group of fellows for the 1937 edi­tion which will be held on April 30, May 1 and 2. On Father O'Hara's latest visit to Los Angeles he ex­pressed pleasure at the successful handling of this annual retreat, little thinking that the turn-out this year would far exceed those of the past. 
The election, quieter than a sit-down strike in a pillow factory, was under the guidance of Ed Hogan, who was appointed by retiring Presi­dent Gene Kennedy, as chairman of the nominating committee. Ed was assisted by Dr. John Gocke, Georg* 
D. McDonald, Fred Pique and Jack Melley. The new officers elected were president, Dong Daley; vice-presi­dent, Larry Moore; secretary, Tom Ashe; treasurer, Larry Kennedy. 
The next activity of the dab's pro­
gram will be a meeting to honor^ Aiumni President Arthur J. Hughes, who is to be in Los Angeles on May 3. 
When Doug Daley took over the reins he had no little trouble dispers­ing the meeting, there being that much enthusiasm shown over possible acti\'ities of the club. Seems as though Doug's problem will not be how to get the fellows out to meet­ings, but how to get them to leave. 
Tom Ashe. 
* 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St., New Or­leans, La., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., 
•28. Whitney-Central Bide-. New Orleans. La., Secretary-
Universal Notre Dame Night was fittingly observed at the Monteleone Hotel when some 30 members of the Louisiana-Mississippi Club were present. 
The occasion was honored by the presence of Rev. Louis Kelly, C.S.C., pastor of the Sacred Heart of Jesus Church, and Fathers Kane and King, two of his assistants. 
Brother Harold, C.S.C., president of the Holy Cross College, intended to be present but, on account of ill­ness, was obliged to be absent. Larry MuUins, the new director of athletics and football coach at Loyola, gave a most interesting talk of his student life at Notre Dame and experiences 
on the football field. Dick Pfefferle, 
assistant coach at Loyola, was also among the speakers. 
The members were verj' enthusias­
tic, and are looking forward to the 
next gathering with keen anticipa­
tion. 
PatriiJt E. Burke, president of the 
club, presided. C. A. Sporl, secre­
tarj' of the club, who is usually verj' 
active on these occasions, was absent 
in New York. 
MANILA 
Eduardo Koxas. *33, 719 E.\chani;e. Manila, President: Leopoldo Brias. Manila. Secre­tary. 
* 
MEMPHIS 
John S. Montedonico. '35, 327 Kenilworth PI., President: Theon F. Dohogne. "27, 1072 S. Wellinston St., Secretary. 
The Memphis organization lost one of its most esteemed members in the recent death of J. M. McCormack, honorarj' president of the Notre Dame Club of Memphis. Mr. McCor­mack, who was graduated in '67, was believed to be the second oldest graduate of Notre Dame at the time of his death, haring matriculated during the war between the States. He was the father of Michael J. Mc­Cormack, '99, and the grandfather of Donnell J. McCormack, '36. 
Incidentally, Donnell is fast be­coming troublesome with his insur­ance sales talk. He is with the Trav­elers'. . 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This writer paid a visit to Sam L. Moore, who attended Notre Dame in 1867-68. He will be 89 years of age October 11, and resides at 380 Walker Avenue in the home he built 50 years ago, when that part of our city was a favorite spot for quail hunters. 
Charles M. Bryan, '97, for many years one of the leaders in state and county politics, has retired from pub­lic sen-ice to devote all of his time to an extensive legal, and other pri­vate, interests. 
Paul "Shorty" Rush wears a broad smile these days enjoying the FHA building boom. He is the tycoon of the Rush Lumber Company. 
Galvin Hudson had the pleasure, Easter Sunday, of entertaining Fa­ther Cornelius Haggerty. Galvin in­dicates that the lack of news in the 1915 section of the ALU.MNUS is dis­appointing. 
C. P. J. "Jock" Mooney, '21, man­ages to hold his law practice in line, along with his exacting duties as as­sistant U. S. District Attorney. Im­agine his chagrin should a client ask his counsel on a charge of illegal manufacture of liquor. (We still have "com" in Tennessee.) 
Lots of activity at the manse of Dave Saxon, '29. Dave entered the real estate business—Greer & Saxon. Inc.,—became a father for the sec­ond time (another boy, named Eu­gene McGuinness, after Monsignor McGuinness, Chicago), and bought a new car, all within the same month. 
Malcolm Saxon, '36, is W-ith Mc­
Fadden & Oates Cotton Company. 
Jerry Foley, '35, one time "Nose Dance" cheer leader at school, and more recently an actor in the Junior League Follies, is also in the cotton business, being with Anderson-Clay­ton Company. 
Sturia Canale spends his daylight hours advancing the interests of D. Canale & Company, wholesale gro­cers, and spends three nights a week at Law School. 
Cousin T. A. Canale is with the Union & Planters National Bank & Trust Company. 
Hugh Magevney, '25, has been a member of the State Legislature for several years. Between sessions at Nashville, Red coaches all branches of athletics at Central High School here. One or two of his proteges are sure to go places with Frank Thomas' Crimson Tide at Alabama. 
We don't hear much from Jim Wrape, the other half of our ''25 rep­resentation, but we know that he has a paying clientele. 
John Murphy, '35, is now in Min­neapolis, apparently taking a factory 
May, 1937 

training course with the Minneapolis­Honey»vell Regulator Company. 
Austin Hall, '26, is associated with Estes Mann, one of our leading ar­chitects. Reports from contractors say that Austin's blue prints are the most complete and comprehensive in town. 
Harry Donnelly, '34, is the engi­neer for the General Air Condition­ing Company. By the number of in­stallations they are making, we know Harry must twirl a mean slide rule. 
John Montedonico is a Junior member of the law firm of Canale, Glanker, Loch, & Little. Mr. Canale has a son at Notre Dame. We hope John will find time to 'carrj' the hod' in our citj-, state, and Southern golf tournaments. 
Jack Lynn, '32, is associated with the Keedoozle Corporation. This is. not a New Deal Project, but may some day become a new deal for the retail grocers. The corporation is headed up by Clarence Saunders, the originator of the Piggly-Wiggly Stores. 
Walter Fransioli, '34, is an engi­neer with the Memphis Power & Light Co. We've seen Walter go through a manhole to check an un­derground transformer, and we've seen him longingly eye the top of a light pole. 
Garvin Fransioli, '34, is with Sears-
Roebuck. He is associated with J. 

W. McLaughlin, an older brother of Big Steve McLaughlin, '29, Chicago. 
Fred Bauer, Jr., '32, has just about taken over the battery and auto parts business established by his father. Fred Bauer, III, class of '55, ^vill soon be gi\ing orders to both pa and grandpa. 
Dr. Bob Bonner may be seen at his office if you come early and await your turn. I usually get my medical advice riding with him from one hos­pital to another. 
Haven't heard recently from Wes­ley Strehl and Lavin McNicholas, class of '35, nor Bill Fay, Neil Far­
rell and Charlie Schafiler, class of 
'36.. We expect to see them, how­ever, on Universal Notre Dame Night and get the low-down. 
As for myself, along with being a very poor secretary of the Memphis Notre Dame Club, I am in the Sales Promotional Department of the Mem­phis Power & Light Company. Some­one has referred to it as the orna­mental department, and Hall calls it "Boondoggling." Be that as it may, the wife and daughter and I eat reg­ularly—apparently too well for my last year's suit. 
This news letter was composed and edited, with the able assistance of Dave Saxon, erstwhile newspaper man, and. his very competent secre­

May, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 221 
stary. We expect to have a good meeting Universal Notre Dame Night. If it turns out well, you may hear from us again. 
T. F. Dohogne. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin. "18. 4103 Collins Ave.. 
Miami Beach, President: Daniel J. Lino, ex. 
•34, 1S17 N. W. Ninth Ave.. Miami. Secre­tary. 
* 

MILWAUKEE 
John Clauder. '34. 1219 Vlitt St.. President: 
James Corrirain, '35, 1829 N. C9th St.. Wau­
watosa. Secretary. 
There was a real turnout for Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night in Milwau­
kee, and it was considered the most 
successful the club has ever had. Ap­
proximately 80 men were on hand. 
So crowded was the Blue and Gold 
room of the Marj'land Hotel that it-
was necessarj' to serve several of the 
boys in the Walnut salon. 
Father Pal Haggerty, Father Dev­ers, Brother Venard and R. G. Lynch, sports editor of the Milwaukee Jour­nal, were guests of honor. Father Haggerty gave an interesting and en­lightening talk on Communism. Fa­ther Devers spoke about the Notre Dame of 25 years ago, and eveiyone enjoyed his reminiscences. Mr. Lynch broke even with Tom Kelly on the exchange of jibes. 
Tom Kelly handled his toastmas­tering superbly and added plenty of spice to the occasion. In addition to the mellifluence for which he is fa­mous, Tom proved himself an elec­tioneer par excellence. Tom's choice was the "people's choice." 
Elected to office for the fiscal year beginning May 1 were John Clauder (president), Bert Maloney, (vice­president), James Corrigan (secre­tary), John Corrigan (treasurer), and Jack Jaeger (public relations counsel)—and, as Tom Kelly puts it, "without pay." 
Edward Yockey gave a pep talk on Notre Dame spirit. West Bend was well represented by Picks and O'-Mearas. The Picks ranged from 1898 to 1933. Frank Donahue, an An­napolis man, was the guest of Bert Maloney. 
Many of the boys' fathers had din­ner with us April 19. Some of those on hand were Messrs. Corrigan, Karr, Clauder, and Prentice. 
Dr. J. R. Dundon, who has been a regular attendant at the weekly luncheons, is a prominent member of the Milwaukee Rowing Club. His picture and a story of his prowess appeared in the Milwaukee Journal, April 11. 
Al Stepan was in town last v;eek and as usual he had to visit Maders, the famous German restaurant. We want Al to get around with his oils and chemicals on Thursdays so he can try a Maryland Hotel lunch . . . 
ditto for all visiting Notre Dame men. 
The club continues to have Thurs­day luncheons at the Maryland, and the boys are having a real get-to­gether. We want everyone to make it. 
The club has made arrangements for a picnic, golf tournament, a summer dance, shortly after Com­mencement, and many other activi­ties about which we'll ^vrite later. 
J. G. Jaeger. 
* 

MONTANA William B. Jones. "28. 411 Power Bldg.. 
Helena. President: I^eonard D. Retnin, '33, Montana Power Co., Great Falls, Secretary. The Notre Dame Club of Montana assembled on Univei-sal Notre Dame Night in one of the banquet rooms of the Rainbow Hotel in Great Falls. The committee appointed by Presi­dent Bill Jones, of Helena, to arrange for the program and entertainment was composed of Joe Maronick, Clar­ence Beaulaurier, and Len Regan. That they fulfilled their commission in a most capable manner was ac­knowledged by all those who at­
tended. 
In keeping with the program of the past year, the guest speaker on the occasion, Rev. Eugene Gergen, who has charge of the Youth Center in Great Falls and is the editor of the Eastern Mountain Register, gave a most enlightening talk on the history and purpose of the Totalitarian State. Following his speech. President Jones notified Father Gergen that he could now consider himself an honorary member of the Notre Dame Club of Jlontana. 
In the course of the splendid ban­quet that was sen'ed to the 20 Notre Dame men that had come from Ana­conda, Butte, Bozeman, Helena, Townsend, Havi-e, Miles City, and Billings to join with the men of Great Falls, a surprise call was made by Father Vince Mooney, C.S.C, the boy work man of Notre Dame, who is now located at the headquarters of the National Catholic Welfare Con­ference in Washington, D. C. Father Mooney has been giring a lecture tour of the country in the interest of Catholic Youth, and had just arrived in Great Falls to address gatherings in the diocese at the invitation of Bishop O'Hara. Father Mooney found himself right at home with the group and gave a splendid talk on means for avoiding the threatened menace of Communism. 
Preceding Father Mooney, every man in the room had a chance to say something, and in spite of the heck­ling of some of the more boisterous, all managed to add a few words. It seems that most of them have the faculty, possibly built up at Notre Dame, as one speaker put it, "of throwing the bull." Bill Jones says that the next time he presides he is going to put a limit to the time of the individual speeches, for it was late in the night when the meeting adjourned. 
Talks were given by the two veter­ans of the nineties at Notre Dame, Earl Brown, of Helena, and Dr. Moy­nihan, of Butte. Tribute was paid to the memory of the Notre Dame men. Judge Galen and James B. Sherlock. Both of them were pres­ent at the meeting a year ago. Both have died since. 
William B. Jones, '28, of Helena, was re-elected president for the com­ing year; Joe Maronick, of the J. L. Tracey Brokerage Company, of Great Falls, was elected vice-president; Len Regan, of the Montana Power Com­pany, Great Falls, was elected sec­retary-treasurer; Rev. J. E. Regan was elected chaplain. 
(Rev.) John E. Regan. 
* 

' NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones. '30, Jones Chemical Co.. Secretary. 
* 

NEW JERSEY Raymond A. Geiser, '32, 44S Eastern Park­way, Irvinston. N. J.. President; Daniel O'Neill '26, 184 N. Walnut St., E. OranBe. 
N. J., Secretary. 
Another club reports its "most suc­cessful" Universal Notre Dame Night! This time the New Jersey Club, with a banquet in the Essex House, Newark, attended by 190 persons. Says Secretary Dan O'Neill: "Russell Riley, '28, was chairman of a committee that produced every speaker listed in advance notices and on the banquet program. .. . In ad­dition to the scores of dub members and their friends, we had in attend­ance a dozen or more fathers of stu­dents. This fine response of fathers to the first invitations issued for a Universial Notre Dame Night ban­quet lays the groundwork of plans now being formulated for future functions." 
Rev. Thomas F. Kelley, president of Seton Hall College, was the prin­cipal speaker at the banquet. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, Univer­sity archivist now taking special studies at Columbia University in New York, represented the campus. Joe Byrne was the toastmaster. 
Other speakers included: Jim Crowley; Lieutenant Gar Davidson and Captain Andrew March, from West Point; Congressman Vince Harrington, Lee Maines and Eddie Dooley. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Leo V. McLauKhlin. '32. 39 Plaza St. Brooklyn. President: Henry R. Frey, *30. 1226 Tinton St.. N. Y. C. Secretary. 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night celebration was a grand success, and about 200 of us sat down to dinner at the McAlpin at 7:30. The weet previous, the Board of Governors elected the new ofScers and they con­sist of: Leo V. McLaughlin, presi­dent; Warren S. Fogel, vice-presi­dent; Henry A. Frey, secretary; Mar­tin V. Callagy, treasurer. 
The newly elected president, Leo McLaughlin, was introduced by the retiring prexy. Doc Gelson, and he, in turn, introduced the toastmaster for the evening, Eddie Dowling. Ed­die was in his usual good form and introduced the various speakers for the evening. They were Gene Buck. president, American Society of Com­posers, Authors and Publishers; Mon-
A combination of printer's over­sight and proof reader's laxity was behind the omission of Doc Gelson's name from the caption that went with the picture in the April ALUMNUS. Everj'body knew the ex-prexj-, of course, but we're heartily sorrj-, anj'way.-—-Eds. 
signor J. Francis A. Mclntyre, chan­cellor of the archdiocese of New York; Frank C. Walker, '09; Father John B. Kelly, chaplain of the Cath­olic Writers' Guild; Father Duffy, of our own order, who is conducting the Mission House at North Easton, Mas­sachusetts. 
The diners were entei-tained also by the singing of Vernon Rickard, '24, and the double quartet of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, led by Everett McCooey and Francis Gart­land, director of music of the Board of Education here. At 10 p.m. we listened to the Studebaker broadcast from Chicago at which Father O'Hara and Elmer Layden spoke, and the Glee Club sang. The whole affair was a huge success and we had one of the largest turn-outs in history. 
On Sunday, -A^pril 4, we held our annual Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfast. Mass was celebrated by Father Tom McAvoy, C.S.C., at the Cathedral at 9 a.m., and the break­fast was held at The Centre. The speakers included Edmond B. Butler, secretary of the Emergency Relief Bureau in the city of New York, who spoke on "Communism in America" and William R. Crowley, noted foot­ball official, who spoke as a personal friend of Rock's. About 100 attended, a fine tribute to Eockne's memory. 
Warren Fogel. 
* 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Bemarf J. Abrott, '27. Latham Square 
BIdg.. Oakland. Presideait; Paul J. Gushing. 
•31. 1221 Central Bank Bldg.. Oakland, Sec­
retary. The annual meeting of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Northern Cali­fornia was held at the Olympic Club in San Francisco on Universal Notre Dame Night, .A.pril 19. An enthusi­astic group listened to the Notre Dame broadcast. Everyone sang along with the Notre Dame songs and 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
thoroughly enjoyed the brief talks 
of Father O'Hara and Elmer Layden. 
Pictures of the Notre Dame-U.S.C game of last year were shown and resulted in considerable pointed dis­cussion about the two new plays ex­ploited in that game, such as the two-man defense and the fumble-for­v.ard-lateral. 
Mark Kreutzer, our past president, was unable to attend due to illness. We are sending him our sincere v.-ishes for a speedy recoverj'­
The conte—plated visit to San Francisco of our national president, Arthur Hughes, was discussed. A committee was formed to make ar­i-angements for co-operation with other Catholic organizations to pro­vide an audience and hall for the talk. 
Fred Snite, the boy in the "iron lung," will arrive in San Francisco from China the first week in June. We are arranging for a considerable number of our alumni to meet him at the dock so as to extend to him and his parents a Notre Dame greeting and our sincere wishes for his re­coverj'. 
New officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows: Bernard J. Abrott, president; Elnr.er B. Wynne, vice-president; Paul J. Gushing, sec­retary. 
From the attendance and spirit at this meeting it appears that the cor­ner has definitely been turned. We hope for continued growth in num­bers and spirit of our local Alumni Club. 
Paul J. Gushing. 
* 
Northern Louisiana 
(new club) 
Arthur J. Kane. '31, 307 Wilkinson. Shreve­
port. President: J. Richard Nowery. *29, 
1624 Creswell St., Shreveport, Secretary. 
A new Notre Dame club sprang into being on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
We alumni of northern Louisiana got together to observe the Night, and, I believe, we put it over in a big way. We had 21 alumni and their guests present, and the proverbial gay old time was had by all. Alumni present were Jimmy Cowlet, V. J. Martzell, Maroun Antoon, Rob Roy, Bush Rolwing, Dick Nowery, Charlie Crockett, Philip Jacobs, C. D. Jones, Don Laskey, Jack and Bill Caplis, Fred and Art Carmody and myself. 
Between the main course and the dessert, Jimmy Cowles arose and spread the bad news, that of paying for the banquet. Dick Nowery's fa­ther, there as Dick's guest, was quick with a come-back. He insisted that he stand the expense of the entire dinner. This, of course, brought about an argument between R. N. Poindes­ter and L. A. Mailbes, who were also 
May, 193/ 
guests of the club. After a few words back and forth across the table these three gentlemen came to an agree­ment—that they would share the ex­penses of the entire meeting. It was a most generous arrangement. 
We decided we wanted a Notre Dame Club in northern Louisiana, and the following officers were elect­ed for the coming year. James Rich­ard Nowery, drilling contractor of Rodessa, Shreveport, Vivian, and points south, was elected secretary and treasurer. Strange but true, the office of president was inflicted upon me. After that the club made Messrs. Nowery, Poindexter and Mailhes hon­oi-ai-y members for life. 
We had a table-round discussion in which everyone told his favorite storj', 
•and at the close of the meeting we decided to hold a barbecue the last week in May or the first week in June. 
We are really going to have an active club here. in Shreveport, and we mean business. We are all be­hind it 100%, and we're going to keep going. You will hear plenty from us. 
Radio station ICRMD was kind enough to give us 15 minutes' time on the air, at which time a couple of the skits you sent to the station were used, and we sang the Victory March. 
Art J. Kane. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32. 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. President: Marion J. Blake. '33, National Bank of Tulsa BIdg., Tulsa, Secrctarj-. 
OREGON Charles J. Hirschbuhl. '22. 2130 N. York. 
Portland, President: Harold J. Harstick. '25. 633 N.E. Everett. Portland, Secretary. The Notre Dame Club of Oregon here met at dinner with 28 members in attendance at the Colonial Room in the Multnomah Hotel, Portland, to participate in the Universal Notre 
Dame Night festivities on April 19. 
William C. Schmitt, '10, vice-presi­dent, presided; informing the mem­bers that Samuel Dolan, '10, presi­dent, would regretfully be unable to attend. 
Unfortunately we were unable to hear the radio broadcast from the University; the radio stations releas­ing this program were distant or without sufficient power to assure re­ception. 
Fortifying Bill Schmitt in the pre­liminary discussions were Frank J. Lonergan, '04, Rev. Thomas J. To­bin, '20, Dominic L. Callicrate, '08, and others too spontaneously to record. 
The new adniinistration assumed office uncontested. The 1937 New Deal officials being: president, Charles 
J. Hirschbuhl, '22, Monarch Forge & Machine Works, 2130 N. York, Port­

May, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
land; vice-president, L. Bernard (Bar­ney) Macnab, '25, Terminal Sales Bldff., Portland; secretary-treasurer, 
H. J. Hantick, '25, Foster & Kleiser Company, 633 NE Everett, Portland. 
The new president conducted the meeting. 
Comments by Rev. Michael Early, C.S.C., '17, president of Portland University, were enthusiastically re­ceived. The club, upon his sugges­tion, will resume the former practice of receiving Holy Communion and joining in a breakfast meeting as a memorial on the anniversary of Knute Rockne's death. 
In attendance also this evening and introduced to the club by Father Early was Joseph Roebolt, honor graduate of the University of Port­.land. Class of 1936. Mr. Roebolt was the recipient of the Athelete— Leadership and Scholarship Award given each year by the Notre Dame 
Club of Oregon. 
Plans are formulated and commit­tees are progressing in arrangements for the visit of Association President 
Arthur Hughes. 
Members of the club ser\'ing as a committee to assure the expectations of an unusual attendance are: Frank 
Lonergan, chairman; Coe McKenna, William C. Schmitt, Morrison A. Con­way, Hugh V. Lacey, D. L. Callicrate. 
H. J. Harstick. 
* 

PARIS 
Lonls P. Harl, "16. Paris Office. New York Herald-Tribune. Paris, France. President, 
PEORIA 
Bradley Prescott, ex. '31, Central Illinois Light Co., President: AI Gary, Jr., '28. 530 
W. Richwoads Blvd., Secrctalr. 
The noted Roundy Coughlin, sports columnist on the State Journal in Madison, Wisconsin, was the chief speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet of the Peoria Club in the Pere Marquette Hotel. Dick Bradley, of Peoria, famed for his after-dinner humor, was toastmaster. 
The result was tremendous, accord­ing to reports from AI Gury, the ever-active secretarj' and super pub­licity agent of the club: more than 200 persons were there and "it was the best Universal Notre Dame Night banquet we ever had in Peoria." Football films, sent from the campus, added to the program. 
Fred Meyers was chairman of the committee in charge of arrangements and he worked with John Carmody, Bill Motsett, Bradley Prescott, club president, and AI Gury. 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Robert W. Powers. Jr., ex. '29. 22 Roseland Ave.. Cranston, R. I., President: John R. Jolly, ex. '18. 457 Pawtucket Ave., Paw­tucket. R. I., Secretary. 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
B. J. HUkcrt, '22. 402 Title & Trust Bide., Phoenix. President. 
PHILADELPHIA 
William E. Cooney, '32, 5725 McMahon Ave., President: A. J. Wackerman. '35, 535G Chew St., Secretary. 
We had our annual elections at our March meeting wth the following 
results: president, William E. Coon­ey; vice-president, Patrick Conway; 
ti'easurer, Conal Byrne; secretary, 
Adrian J. Wackermann. 
As is the usual custom, these men were inducted into office at the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night banquet which this year was held at the Rit­tenhouse Hotel. Those present were treated to an interesting talk by Powers Gourand, radio Commentator on station WGAU. Signor Pelosi, manager and director of the Phila­delphia Civic Opera Company, made the gratifying assertion that, by per­centage, the Notre Dame club of Philadelphia had a greater subscrip­tion to operas than any musical or­ganization in the city. 
Our own Jack McAnulty gave us a pleasant surprise by singing two diffi­cult parts of the opera "La Tosca" in a most creditable manner. Pic­tures of last season's Notre Dame football games were shown, accom­panied by informal discussions on the various plays by Clipper Smith. 
Vince McNally and Joey Maxwell, 
who didn't miss a single block, fake reverse or forward pass. 
To Pat Conway must go the credit of assembling a fine aggregation of his West Catholic High boys who supplied the music and entertainment for the banquet. Glancing over the report of the diversified program for the banquet is proof enough that ClifF Prodehl, Jack McAnulty and Pat Conway, the arrangement com­mittee for the banquet, did their job well and we thank them heartily. 
Adrian J. Wackerman. 

ROCHESTER (New York) 
Frank Norton. "32, SO Beckwith Terrace. 
President: D. Bernard Hennessy, *34, 119 
Bedford St.. Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Hlinois) 
Joseph Bittdorf, e-t. '33. 105 IGth St.. Ster­ling, m,. President: Edward Sullivan, ex. '33, Amboy, HI.. Secretary. 
-A.t the meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley, held here in Dixon, Universal Notre Dame Night, there were about 25 alumni present from Dixon, Rockford, Eo­chelle. Sterling, and Freeport. The meeting consisted of dinner and a general social session and election of officers for the following year. Offi­cers were elected as follows: presi­dent, Joseph Bittdorf, ex '33, Ster­ling; vice-president, Vincent Carney, '29, Rochelle; secretary-treasurer, Ed­ward Sullivan, ex. '33, -A.mboy. 
It was also decided that the annual club picnic would be held in July at the Dixon cabins on the banks of Rock River. We also listened to the broadcast. 
Gerald Jones. 
* 

SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann. Jr.. '25, 107 Thelma. Drive. President: Edward G. Conroy. '30. 204 E. CraiB PI.. Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21. Standard Oil Cb., Saginaw, Mich.. President; William G. Hur­ley. '25, 117 Cherry St. Saginaw, Mich.. Secretary. 
' * 

Sandusky, Ohio 
(new club) 

E. H. Savord. '12. Box 133, President: Charles M. Mouch, '25, 925 W. Washington SL. Secretary. 
We have completed the organiza­tion work of our dub and feel quite proud to have such a fine bunch of fellows on its roster. The number is not so large, but we have plenty of quality. We have just 21 active mem­bers. 
Permanent officers for the year were elected as follows: C. Faber Donahue, OS. '93, was elected hono­rary president; Judge E. H. Savord, '12, president; George A. Wagner, '28, vice-president; and Charles M. Mouch, '25, secretary-treasurer. A board of governors comprised of the officers was also installed at that time. 
The constitution (as suggested and provided by your office) was adopted in almost its entirety. In general, everything to date has been feken care of, so we are ready for anjrthing that can be done. Many plans are in the making. Youll hear a lot more about us. 
Charlie Mouch. 
* 

SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John M. Murphy, '27,86 Uberty St,. Bridge­
port, President: Edward P. Monahan, '34. 
304 Beechmont Ave., Bridgeport. Secretary. 
In observing Universal Notre Dame Night we got together at John Murphy's house to hear Fathe r O'Hara's speech from Chicago and discuss further plans for developing our club. All our previous members were there except several who couldn't make it. 
Jack Cox, according to latest re­ports, is going into a manufacturing soap business with his father in New 
' Jersey. Elmer Harkabus is also de­serting Jenkins Brothers Company, where he has been working as a chemist. His father is opening a beautiful new restaurant in the cen­ter of the city, and Elmer is to he assistant manager. We hope he will like this departure from his regular line. 
Frank McGee comes to town in his work as a national bank examiner, but his schedule never seems to bring-him to Bridgeport at a time of dub 
The Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1937 
meetings. Bill O'Brien was telling me that Al Feeney, who runs Milky Way Farms in Tennessee, is coming to Bridgeport this Summer. We're hoping to show him the town. Joe Regan is Still with the R. F, Corpora­tion in Washington. Jim Cole is also there and reported to be doing a good job during the day. 
Our next regular meeting is sched­uled for May 24 at the Algonquin Club. We find this place affords us plenty of room to sit around and get acquainted. At the next meeting we are planning to invite a local high school principal who can address us on a chosen topic. 
We have decided to have semi-an­nual dues of one dollar in order to provide for miscellaneous require­ments, and to meet with consistent regularity. 
On the evening of March 19 we had a get-together at the Howard Hotel in Bridgeport to see the pic­tures of last season's football games. We had the largest crowd of any Notre Dame meeting in a long time. -A.U the fellows who attended our pre­vious dinner at the -A.lgonquin Club were there, and many of the lay friends of Notre Dame. Our organi­zation is becoming a unit, and the interest of the fellows in such a rep­resentative body appears to be com­ing increasingly evident. There were a number of "Notre Darners" who were not familiar to all of us, and whom we had not seen at previous gatherings. 
Ed Monahan. 
* 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS Charles G. Corcoran, 'n. 1134 W. Monroe 
St, President; Paul D. JlcConnell. '32. 120 
S. Walnut St., Secrotaiy. 
I am pleased to report that Uni­versal Notre Dame Night was ob­served in Springfield by a gathering of 30 members of the alumni, for dinner at Fisher's Inn. Principal speaker was Senator George Maypole, ex. '03, of Chicago. 
The local radio program trans­mitted over station WCBS was well received. After dinner we had the pleasure of listening in a body to the national broadcast over WENR. 
Election of officers for the coming year was held, and the following were elected: Charles Corcoran, president; Earl "Zeke" Worthington, vice-pres­ident; and Paul McConnell, secre­tary-treasurer. 
Henry "Hank" Tholen, '32, of Quincy, Illinois, has recently been made assistant manager of the Fire­stone Service Store in Springfield. We are pleased to have Hank with us. He reports his new address as 407 South SLvth Street, Springfield, Illinois. 
Edward Mandeville, Arch Taylor, 
and Edward J. Flynn, all of Jackson­ville, were also received into the club as new members. 
Plans were discussed for the Sum­mer activities, and a committee ap­pointed to arrange for our annual Mother's Day Communion and break­fast. This committee consists of: Joe Golobowski, chairman; Harold Stone, Walter Bernard and Bill Bernbrock. 
Paul D. McConnell. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Louis C. CliaDleau. '30, 301 Union Trust 
Bids.. South Bend, Ind., President: Oarence • 
HardinK, •25. SDUth Bend Tribune, South 
Bend. Ind., Secretary, The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley obsen'ed Fourteenth Annual Notre Dame Night with a dinner in the faculty dining room of the Notre Dame Dining hall. The interesting program was heard by more than 100 members and guests of the club. 
Walter L. Clenients acted as toast­master of the informal meeting. On the program were Louis J, Buckley, retiring president of the club; Rev. Thomas £. Burke, C.S.C., associate editor of The Ave Maria, who gave a streamlined version of Shakespeare; Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president of the University and chap­lain of the club; Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, whose power to peer into the future and tell what he saw in store for Francis Jones was a high spot of the evening; William J. Fu­rey, baritone, wth Clarence W. Har­ding at the piano; Joseph McNally, student impersonator, whose inter­pretations of W. C. Fields and other celebrities pleased the audience; and Paul Foley, editor of the Scholastic. 
The club also broadcast a 15-min­ute radio program over WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station, from the studio on the campus. Taking part in the broadcast were Louii C. Chapleau, vice-president of the club; Dillon J. Patterson, pianist; Mr. Fur­ey, Mr. Harding, Mr. McNally and Mr. Foley. 
During the evening the board of directors for the coming year were 
•elected. They are James D. Ash, '33; Joseph M. Boland, '27; Louis C. Chapleau, '30; Norbert A. Engels,' '26; William J. Furey, '23; John W. Gibbons, '30; Clarence W. Harding, '25; Frank Miles, '22; Dillon J. Pat­terson, '20; Judge J. Elmer Peak, '12; John W. Schindler, '09; R. Floyd Searer, '28. 
The board of directors met the following Saturday noon at the Co­lumbia Athletic Club and elected the following ofiicers: Vitus G. Jones. honorary president; Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., chaplain; Louis C. Chapleau, president; Dillon J. Pat­terson, vice-president; Clarence W. Harding, secretary; R. Floyd Searer, treasurer; and William J. Furey, as­sistant treasurer. A resolution was passed extending to Louis J, Buckley the club's thanks for his splendid work in the oflice of president for the past year. Plans were made for a meeting in the near future to dis­cuss the club's program for the com­ing year. 
Under the chairmanship of Ed Meehan, the club had its annual Rockne Communion - breakfast on April 4. Father John Farley, CS.C,, celebrated the Mass at the St. Olaf shrine in the Dillon Hall chapel. Frank Coughlin presided later at the breakfast and presented the follow­ing as speakers: Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, Father Eugene Burke, CS.C, Father Farley, Tom Hickey, Dudley Shively, Elmer Lay-den and Dillon Patterson. John Lau­tar, captain of last Fall's football-team and president of the Monogram club, was a special guest. 
After the breakfast the alumni and the members of the Monogram Club drove to Rock's grave where each or­ganization placed a wreath, follow­ing brief prayers. 
Clarence Harding. 
ST. LOUIS Dr. Matthew W. Weis. e.T, "23. .ISO Metro­
politan B1d[;„ President: David J. RieMey. 
Jr., '30. 214 S. Meramec. Clayton, Mo., Sec­
retary. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Louis celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the Normandy Golf Club. Festivities were preceded by a short business meeting called by President Matt Weis. From the re­ports of our committee headed by Pat McLaughlin, John Corley and Paul O'Brien, we will have a splendid turn-out for President Arthur Hughes' visit on April 26. 
The Studebaker program came in fine. Dick Muckerman's Wagner beer went down fine. Frank Walker dropped out of the skies from Wash­ington or somewhere to visit us. Bill Leahy had all the luck on the long white table. Doctors Nig and Fran Kennedy, Coughlin and Richtarsic were still playing cards at 2:30 a.m. Dr. Bill McGuire sported that fine mustache he succeeded in growing since his last appearance a couple of years ago. The eld stand-bys like Bob Hellrung, Carroll Pinkley 
(watch-dog of the treasury for three years), Joe Switzer and Vince Fehlig, to name a few, were present. The party was the largest and most suc­cessful we have had. 
David Rielley. 
* 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Donald Sheehy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave.. Syra­
cuse, President: William S, Catc, '27. 136 
Harding Place, Syracuse, Secretary. The Notre Dame Club of Syracuse and Central New York met at the 

May, 1937 
University Club, Syracuse, April 19, and elected the following officers for the coming year: Donald Sheehy, president; William S. Cate, secre­tary-treasurer. 
The meeting was well attended, and the broadcast from Chicago was enjoyed by all those present. 
William S. Cate. • TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11. 260 Melmore St., Presi­dent: Fred J. Wagner. '29. 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
* 

TOLEDO Edward J. HaBerty, '28. 536 Woodville. President: Raymond L. Tillman. '25. 2027 Bretton PI.. Secretary. 
The Toledo club observed Univer­sal Notre Dame Night ^vith an in­formal dinner-dance at Commodore Perry hotel, according to an advance wire from John Hurley, '25. John said that the club was making a spe­cial effort to get in touch vnth. Notre Dame men in the towns near Toledo so as to invite them to the dance. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
Gcorse Ulilmcycr. '23. Peoples' Light Co., Moline, m.. President: Elmer W. Besten. '27. 1711 W. Sixth St.. Davenport. Iowa. Secretary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) Joseph Hunt. 40 Chenanso St., Binchamton, President; William Yeaser, '34, 18 Vine St., Binghamton, SecretaiT. 
* 

TRI-STATE (Ind.-IH.:Ky.) 
F. Wendell Lensine. '30, 601 Bayard Park, Evansville. Ind.. President; Ralph F. Heffer, '25, 111 Washington Ave.. Apt, D., Evans­ville, Ind.. Secretary. 
* 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Gerald F. Conway. '32. David. Inc., First National Bank Bldir.. St. Paul. President: 
A. K. Sullivan. '27. 264 Lowry Medical Arts BIdg., St. Paul, Secretary. It was Universal Notre Dame Night for the Twin Cities Club on April 
19 in a big way at the Town and Country Club in Saint Paul. 
A turn-out of about 90 members and friends gathered for a banquet and the radio broadcast of Father O'Hara, Elmer Layden and the Glee Club. The most successful Univer­sal Notre Dame Night in the history of the club was held. Credit for this success must be given to Jerry Con­way, our president, and Frank Mayer, general chairman and toastmaster. 
The principal speaker was Profes­sor Jack Norton, former coach at St. Thomas College and a noted edu­cator in the Twin Cities for 30 years. The address given by Mr. Norton on the early history of Notre Dame was very interesting and very touching. 
A lecture ^vith illustrated slides was given by Hawf & Hawf, colum­nist and cartoonist for the St, Paul Dispatch, on the history of the print­ing press, with comic slides on sev­eral members of the club. 
Several older members were there: The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Ralph Glynn, who played football at Notre Dame in 1904; Ted Ames and Tom Sudheimer, teammates of Ralph; and Dr. Dave Hilger and Louie Chute were also there. 
The big laugh of the evening was provided by our president, Jerry Con­way, who arranged and modeled a dummy with a two-face head, dressed in a football uniform with one side of the face painted to represent a red-headed tough Irishman, and the other side of the face a straw-headed Swede. This dummy was brought into the banquet hall in a coiBn and rose from the dead. After being placed at the speaker's table he was named Swede O'Flaherty, 
It had been suggested that a suit­able trophy be put up for the coming Notre Dame-University of Minnesota sen'es of football games. Frank Rogers, member of our club, gener­ously offered to donate such a tro­phy. With Mr. Rogers' generosity we hope to have a trophy that will rival the Notre Dame-Northwestern "Shillalah" award. 
Sevei-al distinguished guests were present at our banquet. District Judge McNally, Frank McCormick, athletic director at the University of JMinnesota, Gus Barfuss, commission­er of public safety for St. Paul, all radio sport broadcasters for our local Twin Cities stations and all local newspaper sport editors. 
Calling all "G" men! Word has just been received that Conway's dummy was kidnapped from the Town and Country Club sometime between midnight of April 19 and 8 a.m. of -"Vpril 20, from under the eyes of Police Commissioner Gus Barfuss, assistant police chief" Charles Tierney, Detectives Fibber McGowan and Paddy Lannon. Anyone seeing a dummy with the front side Irish and rear Swedish, and who answers to the name of Swede O'Flaherty. please contact Jerry Conway and col­lect the reward, which will be the price of Frank Mayer's football pants and shoes that Mr. Swede O'Flaherty was wearing at the time of his mys­terious disappearance. 
We are very proud to hear that Joe Benda has been appointed line coach. We all know that Joe is go­ing to be a great assistance to the coaching staff. His great record here in the Minnesota conference speaks for itself. Good luck, Joe. We here in Minnesota are going to miss you. 
Art Sullivan. 
* 

UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady, '24. 206 Keams Bide. Salt Late City. President: Cyril Hariecte. '19, 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kelley. '22, Peoples Gas & Elec­
tric Bldg- President: Joseph W. Fullem. 
'31, 1621 Neilson St. Secretary. 
225 

WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) ' 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton, Ind., Presi­dent. Enunett Ferguson. '32. Wallace Bldir-^ Lafayette, Ind., Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave.. President; James M. Honaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St. Secretary. 
WASHINGTON. D. C. 
Charles O. DeBarry, '24. 1601 Argonne PI.. N.W.. President: Paul Bcretz. '27. 815 18th St, N.W., Washington. Secretary. 
In addition to sponsoring a Smoker for the occasion, which was attended by some 60 club members, this club did a fine job in the interest of the University incident to celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. Our formal program began on Saturday morning, April 17, with a well-worded and well-received talk by Arthur (Dutch) Bergman, over the local station of the Columbia Broad­casting System. 
Announcements of the smoker and the meaning of Universal N. D, Night were made by station announcers over other local stations on several other programs, and the affair re­ceived ample publicity in the local newspapers. 
On Monday evening, April 19, N.D,'s David Worth Clark, represen­tative from Idaho, made an excellent speech over the Mutual Broadcast­ing Company's station, which talk was preceded and followed by the singing of the "Victory March" and "On Down the Line" by the Glee Club of Holy Cross College, The lat­ter feature was made possible by the kind co-operation of Father Francis McBride, C.S.C., head of the college. 
At the smoker on Monday night, the club, of course, enjoyed the Uni­versity's program on the Studebaker broadcast, and talks by, among others, Dutch Bergman, Fod Cotton. Jack Elder (who is taking a special course at Catholic U,) John McD. Fox, Jim Hayes and Dr. Flynn. The hard working committee for the smoker consisted of: John Dorsey. chairman; Bemy Loshbough. John O'Hanlon, Bob Boykin and Larry Maher. The piano and the rusty voices of many members were given a lusty workout. All in all, the eve­ning was a success. The club is now gearing itself for an early Summer dance, 
Paul Beretz. 

West Virginia 
(new club) 

Vincent Reishman. '35. 1217 Lewis St. Charleston, President: WlHiam Kenney. '34, 714 State St, Charleston, Secretary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was the occasion for another "get-togeth­er" of the alumni and former stu­dents of Notre Dame who live in the vicinity of Charleston, West Virginia, Thirteen former students attended a dinner given at the Hotel Ruffner. 
At this meeting it was decided that a West Virginia Club be formed with the expectation of including in its membership, not only those who live in Charleston, but also those who are in nearby towns. This arrangement will afford an' opportunity to those who have been too far distant to par­ticipate in a club's activities. 
The following officers were elected: Vincent Reishman, '35, president; Hugh Loder, Jr., '31, vice-president; Bill Kenney, '34, secretarj'-treasurer. 
The Honorable Arthur P. Hudson, '95, was chosen to act in an advisory capacity in all the activities of the club. 
Bill Kenney. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
D. M. "Turk" Mcincrt. '28, 85 Grand Ave.. Etna, Pa., President; Bernard W. Conroy, 
•30, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, 
Pa., Secretary. We celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night in Pittsburgh with a dinner at the Fort Pitt Hotel. At that time we elected new officers as follows: President, D. M. "Turk" Meinert; vice-president, Lawrence O'Toole; treasurer, John Ryan; sec­retary, Bernard Conroy, '30. The members of the class of '30 present were: Ed Nebel, Jim Dod­
xon. Bill Steitz, Dr. Bob MacDonald, Dr. Dick O'Toole, Hugbie Gallagher. 
Bernie Conroy. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
James M. Phdan, ex. '17, University of Washington, Seattle, President: Emmett G. Lenihan, '15, 1405 Hogc Bldg., SeatUe, Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Ralph Jorden, '26, Bridgeport, Ohio, Presi­
dent; Leo J. Hetily, '31, 10 Zone St., 
Wheeling, Secretary. 
Ralph Jorden was elected president of the Wheeling-Notre Dame club at the dinner held on Universal Notre Dame Night. Other officers for the ensuing year are John Emmert, vice-president, and Leo Kletrly, secretary-treasurer. At the business meeting following the dinner a committee was named to arranged a party for mid-June, when students returning home from Notre Dame for the summer re­cess will be honored. 
Louis Yeager, Jr., is chairman of the June party committee, and his aides will be William Wingerter, Jr., William Dusch, and John Emmert. 
The dinner of clever appointments was served at 7:00 o'clock and fol­lowing the business meeting. Brother Conrad, of Central high school, gave a brief address. Later the broadcast was heard, with Elmer Layden and Father John F. O'Hara, as the speakers. 
Benda New End Coach 
Succeeds O'Brien On Football Staff 
Joe Benda, well-known to alumni from 1923 to 1928, has returned to his alma mater in the role of end coach, replacing the late Johnny O'Brien, who was killed March 12 in an automobile accident. 
Benda, a product of Duluth, Mn­nesota, was an exceptionally fine sophomore end prospect in 1924, but his progress was hampered when he received a knee injury. He with­drew from school the following year to undergo an operation on the in­jured member, returning to play var­sity ball in 1926 and 1927. 
Following his graduation he coached at his high school alma mater. Cathe­dral of Duluth, turning out a Twin­Poi-ts conference championship eleven which won 6 games and lost only one. 
He then took over the head coach­ing reins of St. John's of CoUege­ville, Minnesota, where his teams won 31 games, lost 12, and tied six over a period of seven seasons. Al­though St. John's is smaller in en­rollment than any other member of the Minnesota State College confer­ence, Benda brought home confer­ence titles in three of his last five 
Covers were laid at the dinner for: 
Brother Conrad, Brother Paul Fe­lix, Leo J. Kletzly, Irvin J. Schaffner, Russell - B. Rickus, Louis J. Yeager, Jr., William J. Wingerter, Jr., Robert Jorden, William Duscb, Willia m Mitsch, J. B. Beltz, J. Regis Kuhn, 
J. L. Emmertt, R. H. Jorden, Thomas F.'HowIey, Jr., George J. Sargus, W. 
N. Hogan, P. T. Carey, Thomas Jor­den, Jr., Joseph Kaltenbach. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizaheth Scton, S.C., Saint Mary's College, Holy Gross, Ind., President; Sister 
M. Angelice, B.V.M., St. Joseph Convent, Mt. Carmel, Dubuque. Iowa, Secretary. 
Mrs. Margaret P. Alexander, A.B. 
'28, was recently chosen as principal of the new Marquette school in South Bend. She will assume her new office w-ith the beginning of the 1937-38 year. 
For the past eight years Mrs. Alexander has been head teacher in the Marquette school. She received her master's degree from the Univer­sity of Iowa in 1935. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran. '29. 1348 Quinn, President; Charles Cushwa, '31, 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
seasons, losing only six games his last five years. His only losing sea­son was his first. His 1932 cham­pions won six and tied one. His 1935 team won all of its seven games. In 1936 he won five out of seven and his second straight title. 
Benda reported at Notre Dame April 19, and he returned to St. John's at the conclusion of Notre Dame's Spring pi-actice to complete Spring drills there. He will again Join the Notre Dame staff with the opening of Fall practice. 
DEBATING 
(Continued from Page 20S) 
affirmative, represented by Robert Schmelzle and Thomas Proctor. 
The Notre Dame "B" team debat­ing on the "consumers' cooperation" question participated in the Manches­ter College Debate tournament in North Manchester, Indiana on Feb. 27 and 28 and won nine out of ten debates. Frank Brame and William 
E. Duggan, representing the affirma­tive, defeated Akron, Goshen, Bowl­ing Green, and Illinois Normal and lost to Manchester. The negative team composed of Charles Osbom and Frank Fitch defeated Indiana University, Wayne University, West-em State Teachers College of Kala­mazoo, Purdue University, and Bowl­ing Green. The "B" teams were ac­companied by Prof. Joseph Apodaca. 
The members of the 1937 varsity debating squad were Richard Meier, Robert Schmelzle, Thomas Proctor, John Marbach, Thomas Mulligan, Charles Osbom, Redman Duggan, Frank Fitch, and Frank Brame. Var­sity debating keys will be awarded to these first-year debaters: Brame, Mulligan, Osbom, and Fitch. Meier, Schmelzle, and Marbach will be grad­uated in June. 
ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 211) 
Irish are favored to win. Illinois is expected to furnish the stiffest com­petition. The Indiana state meet will be held at Notre Dame, May 28 and 29. 
• TENNIS 
The tennis team should not be in­cluded in the blanket paragraph opening this story, for Coach Pedro de Landero already has his boys ahead of last year's mark. They de­feated Indiana, 5 to 4, in the season's opener, held a powerful Western State team to a 6 to 3 victory, lost to Chicago, 9 to 0, and then came back to defeat Purdue, 7 to 2. Soph­omores have played a prominent part in Notre Dame's success to date, and with several promising freshmen available, Irish tennis fortunes should be^n in another season to improve, after a 10-year drought. 

May, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 227 
» » » »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the engagements of: 
Miss Helen Smith and Daniel F. Cannon, '30. The marriage •will take place May 21. 
Miss Polly O'Donnell and Joseph Nugent, '32. 
Miss Patricia Caron and Patrick 
F. Crowley, '33. 
Miss Muriel Dorothy Wade and Carl E. Langston, '37. 
Marriages 
Miss Janet Hope Fining and Matt 
H. Rothert, '24, were married April 10, in Chicago. 
Miss Maria Angelica Cavazos and Rodolfo Garza, '28, were married April 3, in Saltillo, Mexico. 
Miss Rosemary Callahan and Louis Fox Niezer, '29, were married April 21, in St. Jude Church, Fort "Wayne, Indiana. 
Miss Amanda Frances Adams and 
Andrew Leo Love, '30, wre married 
April 24, in New York City. 
Miss Marjorie McDuflree and John 
T. Rocap, '30, were married April 21, in St. Joan of Arc Church, In­dianapolis. 
Miss Jane Kane and Daniel Egan, '31, were married April 3, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Martha Jane Foose and Rich­ard R. Baker, '31, were married March 30, in St. Agnes Church, Day­ton, Ohio. 
Miss Mary Cashman and Louis R. Chreist, Jr., '33, were married April 17, in South Bend. 
Miss Jane Fitton and Michael Fox, '34, were married May 1, in Indian­apolis. 
Miss Margaret C. Wilhelrason and George W. Cole, '34, were married May 5, in St. Mary's Church, Nevada, Missouri. 
Miss Lucy Lorraine Kelly and Ray­mond Bambenek, '35, were married April 3, in Boston. 
Miss Joan Baldwin and Nelson L. Reese, '35, were married May 8, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Maybelle Sherman and Thomas Blackwell, '33, were married April 17, in Indianapolis. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Riordan, '24, announce the birth of a son, their eighth child, on April 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. Elmer F. Layden, '25, announce the birth of a son, on April 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. Al Sommer, '25, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, on April 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Robinson, '28, announce the birth of a daugh­ter. Sheila Ann, April 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis Creadon, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Mary, March 25. 
Dr. and Mrs. Vito J. Canizaro, '29, announce the birth of a son, Joseph Corte, II, March 1. 
Blr. and Mrs. William H. Krieg, '29, announce the birth of a son, Peter Ballweg, March 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Holmes, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, Patricia, February 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Hasley, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, Susan Charlotte, April 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Mullins, 
'31, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Kathleen, March 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Beesley, '31, announce the birth of a son, Jerry Patrick, March 17. 
JAMES M. MCCOBMICK 
R. I. P. 

Mr. and Mrs. Neil Ran, ex. '32, announce the birth of a son, Peter Anthony, March 30. 
Mr. and IVIrs. William E. Cooney, 
•'32, announce the birth of a "On, Donald Francis, March 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Talbot, ex. '33, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Judith, April 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Laughlin, '33, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, -4pril 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Lawrence Lynn, '32, annuonce the birth of a daugh­ter, Caroline Louisa, April 9. 
* 

Deaths 
One of the oldest of Notre Dame men and one of the most prominent for many years, James M. McCor­mack, of the class of 1867, died in Memphis on April 3 at the age of 86. He had been ill since last November. 
The eldest Mr. McCormack was the first of three generations of Notre Dame men. His son, Michael J. Mc­Cormack, was graduated in 1899, and his grandson, Donnell J. McCormack, finished in June, 1936. A special article on this outstanding Notre Dame family appeared in the June, 1936, ALUMNUS. 
Funeral services were in St. Peter's Church, Memphis, where Mr. McCormack had been a member for 50 years, and burial was in Nashville. The pallbearers, active and honorary, included many of the leading citizens of Memphis, among them several Notre Dame representatives. 
Bom in Richmond, Virginia, Mr. McCormack moved to Nashville at the age of 10. He came to Notre Dame in 1863, when the Civil War was at its height. Starting in the cotton business in Memphis in 1883, he held, when he retired in 1931, the longest continuous membership in the Memphis Cotton Exchange. His firm was McCormack-Richards & Co. 
Mr. McCormack was honorary president of the Notre Dame Club of Memphis, as well as the oldest direc­tor of the Union Planters National Bank. 
A brief notation brings word of the death, on February 26, of Clem­ent J. Enking, LL.B. '26, of Tupinga, California. 
Adrian Wackerman writes from Philadelphia: "It is with regret that I tell, you of the death of John Mf>­roney, class of '32, who died Wed­nesday, February 24, from a com­plication of pneumonia and perito­nitis following an operation. He leaves a wife and two small children." 
Sister Symphorosa Gallagher, S.C., M.A., '29, died recently in Mt. St. Joseph, Ohio, according to a post office notification. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: Luke Kelly, upon the death of his mother; Otty J. Cemey, '34, upon the death of his mother; Arthur, '35, and Bert, '28, Korzen­eski, upon the death of their mother; Louis W. Esposito, '31, upon the death of his mother; Professor Her­man H. Wenzke, '22, upon the death of his father; Rev. Francis A. Brown, C.S.C, upon the death of liis brother; Joseph, '30, and Dr. Charles, '32, Nash, upon the death of their father; Dean Thomas Konop, upon the death of his father; John M. Hughes, '31, upon the death of his son. 
* 
Personals 
Before 1880 Secretary: Hon. T.F.Cal­
lacher. Fitchburff. Mass. 
1880-1885 Secretary: Prof. Robert M. 
Anderson. Cirdeville, Ohio. 
1886 Secretary: Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
1887 GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Heineman, Conncrsville, Indiana. All aboard for June 4, 5 and 6! Those who are coming ought to com­municate with either John Heineman, Connersville, Indiana, or the Alumni Office, so that necessarj' arrange­ments can be made well in advance. The members of the golden anniver­sary class will be honored guests at all the Commencement functions. 
1889 Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Camp 
New Orleans, Louisiana. Max Adler, of South Bend, was elected president of the Indiana Re­tail Clothiers' and Furnishers' Asso­ciation at a recent convention in In­dianapolis. 
* 

1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute, 7 
Univ. Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 

Secretary Chute writes charmingly, as follows: 
These four secretaries just had re­called to his attention, in the April ALUMNUS, that one P. E. Burke beat him by a jump, unto the secretariate of the class ahead. So, how do you do, Pat? You there? "We'll have to look back a ways to see what you have said in the past. However, a little silence is a good thing at times. It serves as background of negativity to absorb some of the slack that would get nowhere any\vay. 
Interest is aroused also in the ref­erence by Secretarj' Heineman, just two or three jumps back (classes '87 and '88), to his desire to meet Neal Ewing, brother of John and Eddie. Neal knew a lot that he was very modest about, and had a peculiarly convincing way of imparting it. Brother Fred, '93, once learned that Neal knew a modicum of Latin. It is a stock storj' of his. Maybe Neal will remember. 

The parishioners of our St. Ste­phen's Church, a full house strong, were edified by the able exposition of the falsity of Communism, by our National President, Arthur J. Hughes, on the evening of March 22. He was followed by a good runner-up in our pastor. Father T. E. Cullen. Art was accompanied by our able execu­tive secretarj' Armstrong, sometimes known as Jim, whom also it was a delight to welcome. 
Ml-, and Mrs. Robert O'Hara vis­ited the campus on April 16. Mr. O'Hara, who was a student at Notre Dame in 1888 and 1889, resides "in Hamilton, Montana. His last visit to Notre Dame was in 1929. 
1894 Secretary: Hugh A. O'Donnell. 1 W. G7th St., New Yoric City. 

1895 Secretary: Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bids., San Francisco, Calif. 
1896 Secretary: William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara. St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Qemcns, Mich. 
1898 Secretary: William C. Kegler, 9th & Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duane. « 8 JeiTerson Blvd., Peoria, 111. 
1900 * 
1901 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300. 139 N. Clark St.. Chicago, HI. 
Father George Marr, C.S.C., is sending back to the campus and, particularly to his boys in Walsh Hall, stirring tales of his elephant rides in India. The popular Walsh rector visited with the Holy Cross missions in Bengal, following the Eucharistic Congress in Manila. He will return to the campus next Sum­mer. 
1902 Secretary: C. C. MitchcB, 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicago, SL George Burkitt, of Houston, Texas, was invested on April 25 as a Knight of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, one of the highest papal honors, in a brilliant ceremony. At the same time Most Rev. Christopher E. Byrne, 
bishop of Galveston, was invested as a knight commander of the same order. Present for the ceremony were all the bishops of Texas as well as many monsignori and other dignitar­ies. Most Rev. Francis C. Kelley, bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa, officiated. 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke. 90« Trust Co. BIdg., Milwaukee, Wis. 
1904 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg,, Elkhart, Indiana. 
1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. "" ^ LaSalle St., Chicago, El. 
1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen BIdg., Spolmnc, Wash. 
* 

Father Ed Finnegan, C.S.C., was recently the speaker at a meeting of the newly organized Veteran Builders of America in South Bend, conducted under the auspices of the United Spanish War Veterans. Floyd O. Jellison took a prominent part in the ceremonies. 
Father John M. Ryan, C.S.C, was recently named a member of the state La Salle Memorial Commission by Governor Townsend, of Indiana, and later elected secretary and treas­urer of. the group. The objective of the commission is the completion and dedication of a South Bend memorial to La Salle by 1943, the 300th anni­versaiy of his birth. 
1907 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke. C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
* 

1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Building. Cleveland, Ohio. 
1909 Secretary: E. P. Cleary. Notre Darae, Indiana. Ted Carville, of Reno, United States attorney for Nevada, on April 1, gave a talk over KOH, Reno, on "Your Government." It was spon­sored by the National Emergency Council. 
Ted had hoped to be on the cam­pus for Commencement. When he wrote in early April, however, he felt that he probably would have to-postpone his trip until later in the Summer. 
* 

1910 Secretary: Eev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Qeveland, Ohio. Fred Steers, '11, reports that Paul Donovan, '10, has been recuperat­ing at his old home in Woodstock, Illinois, after a serious illness. He expected to return soon to his work as general counsel for the Borland-Wieland Dairy Co., in Chicago, where George Barry, '24, is his chief as­sistant. 
1911 Secretary: Fred Steers, 1G66 First National Bank BIdg., Chicago, HI. 
* 

1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth-St., Pittsburgh. Pa. 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt. 921 En­
gineers' B\dg., Qeveland, Ohio. 

1914 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 408 
Bank of America BIdfr.. Anaheim. Cal. 

IQie Secretary: James E. Sanford. 1524 *"*•* Farwcll Ave.. Chicago. lU. Jim Sanford sends this welcome dope: 
Mark Duncan is recovering from a very severe illness which has con­fined him to his home for several months. His friends can reach him at the Whitehall apartments, 105 East Delaware Place, Chicago. 
Al Kuble recently joined the gov­ernment service as an executive in the Social Security organization "mth headquarters at Chicago. Al ranked second in the large IlUnois group who took a special Civil Service examina­tion. His long experience in the in­surance field equips him to go far in this new and important division of governmental activity. 
The class of 1915 noted with sor­row the recent news in the ALTOINUS of the death of Dr. James Lynch, of Boston. Our sympathy is extended to the members of his family and our prayers are offered that his soul may rest in peace. 
Judge Larry LaJoie, of Detroit, has been honored by an appoitment to one of the two nominating com­mittees of the Alumni Association. Joe Byrne, of Newark, New Jersey, has won similar recognition. Con­gratulations ! 
L. D. Kiesler is assistant purchas­ing agent of the People Gas, Light and Coke Company, Chicago. His long and faithful service vnth this great utility has won him singular recognition among the distinguished group of engineers who make up their staff. 
1916 Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin. First 
Trust Bids.. Hammond, Ind. 

|qi7 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker. 104 *^ S. Union SL. Elgin, HL 
The Big Push is on! They're all coming back! The campus will be loaded with '17ers on June 4, 5 and 6, if present indications are any cri­terion—and they ought to be. 
Here is one grand indication—a letter from Leo Vogel, 337 Union Trust Building, Pittsburgh: "I'll be on hand in June, although it will be my first Commencement since those few hours in June, 1917, when a few others and I rushed into Washington Hall in misfit uniforms, grabbed our diplomas, watched the other wind-up ceremonies, visited the brewery, slept 12 to a room in the Oliver, took an early morning ride in the cool air along the river in Jerry Miller's car, got back on the train, and returned to have just enough time to get a 
Before and After 25 Years 
1912 193 7 
Silver Anniversary Reunion 
June 4, 5, 6 
PROGRAM 
Friday, June i 
All Day—Registration in Alumni Hall (Special 1912 Headquarters). All Day—Golf Tournament. Afternoon—Baseball. Evening—Class Meeting and Dinner, Faculty Dining Room. Guests: 
Classes of 1887, 1911, 1913. Guest Speakers. 
Saturday, June 5 
All Day—Informal inspection of Campus and Buildings. Golf. Afternoon—Baseball. Evening—General Alumni Banquet (special tables for 1912). 
Sunday, June 6 
Morning—Class Mass, Sorin Hall Chapel, Father Lange, Celebrant. Noon—St. Joe Hall Limcheon and Monogram Club Luncheon. Afternoon—Commencement Exercises. Evening—Farewell. 
See general Commencement program for further details. 
ALL CAMPUS EVENTS ON CENTRAL STANDARD TIME 
para-typhoid shot before lining up for retreat. 
"Since then my life seems to have remained locked in high gear, and I have lost my hair, retained my •waist­line, and acquired a highly satisfac­torj- family." 
Also from Pittsburgh, Doc Leo O'Donnell Tvrites that he sincerely hopes that his practice won't detain him at the last moment because he is counting on "signing in." 
And the old roommates, Harry Kelly, First National Bank Building, Detroit, and John Cassidy, Jefferson Building, Peoria, have already asked that a double be reserved for them for June 4, 5 and 6. 
And Danny Hilgartner vrill be here, of course, because Danny is here for every Commencement and because he is actively co-operating with Eddie McOsker in promoting the re-union. Carleton Beh, Des Moines, will be here for his first Juno gath­ering (although he's back often at other times). 
Other "certainties" are: Walter Ducey, Joseph Flynn, Fred Mahaffey, William C. O'Brien, Leon T. Russell, Rigney Sackley, George Shanahan, Jim Hayes, Paul Fogarty, Jerry Mil­ler, Prof. J. M. Cooney, (Ph.D. '17,) Elmer Tobin, and John Urban Riley. 
That "naturalized South Bender," Bemie VoU, has, as you know by now, offered the use of his summer home for the big class get-together on Friday night. Bemie is laboring hard on the plans for that night, and he and the goldfish will be expecting to see many of you. 
The final word—Better Get Here! And, if it's humanly possible, get here for the Friday night session. 
1918 Secretary: John A. Lemmer. 1110— 8th Ave., S., Escanaba. Mich. 
1919 Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street. Gary, Indiana. 
1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Black BIdg., Los Antreles, Calif. A thoughtful letter from John Bowles, vice-president of the Bowles Live Stock Commission Company, Union Stock Yards, Chicago, told how Brother Leo, C.S.C., in charge of the Notre Dame farm, recently sold two loads of steers at a record price. John's letter gave Brother plenty of credit as one of the coun­try's real leaders in livestock and ag­riculture. Henry McCullough, of Davenport, Iowa, was a welcome ^'isito^ on the campus on March 29. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Dnfly, 1600 Ter­minal Tower, Cleveland, Ohio. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buftalo Ath­letic Qub. Buffalo, New York. As Kid Ashe reported to you in April, John Huether has advanced 
again in the General Electric organi­zation in Schenectady New York. He is now manager of sales in the mining and steel mill section of the indus­trial department, succeeding a man who became assistant to the vice-president in charge of engineering. John had been manager of sales in the machinery manufacturers' sec­tion. 
1923 ^^^ H- Castner, 191 Tralton Ed., 
•'*'*'*' Springfield. Mass. 
1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes, Wm. F. Pcd­rick & Co., Emp. State Bide.. N.Y.C. 
192 5 Secretary: John W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St.. Chicago, Bl. Noble Kizer, of Purdue, recently addressed a father and son get-to­gether at St. Martin's parish, in Gary, Indiana. 
And the same Kizer, together with Elmer Layden, Jim Crowley, Bill Cerney and Joe Boland, got together for luncheon in South Bend not long ago when Crowley dropped in from Fort Wayne on his way to Cleveland for the Cleveland Club Rockne breakfast. 
* 

1926 Secretary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Orange, N.J. 
Frank Bon is now associated with 

E. C. Raymond in the practice of law in the Majestic Building, Chey­enne, Wyoming. 
* 

1927 Secretary: Edmund DeClerq, 8118 Ellis Ave., Chicago, 111. Al Smith, mayor of La Porte, was one of the speakers at the regular meeting of the Northern Indiana As­sociation of Law Enforcing Officers held in La Porte on April 29. Pro­fessor Lou Buckley, '28, of the South Bend, Indiana, Buckleys, was an­other. Lou spoke on "The Labor Problems of Today." 
* 

192 8 Secretary: Lonis Buckley, 718 E. Corby St., South Bend, Ind. Two '28 men have returned to South Bend. Joe Benda is back as end coach at Notre Dame, succeeding the late Johnny O'Brien, and Burt Toepp is now in the insurance busi­ness in the Notre Dame suburb, after residing in Cincinnati. 
George Kelley, city editor of the Youngstown, Ohio, Vindicator, re­cently displayed the highest type of Notre Dame spirit when he wrote to Doctor Cooney, head of the Journal­ism Department, that he would have a place on his staff for a June jour­nalism graduate. 
Jim Canizaro has announced the opening of an office in the Lampton Building, Jackson, Mississippi, for the practice of architecture and engineering. 
L. L. Cunningham is now in Mil­waukee with the National Discount Corporation of South Bend. 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wiscnsin Street. Indianapolis, Ind. 
* 

1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensington, Pa. 
The reliable Bernie Conroy comes through with these notes: 
Jack Cannon is now in Cincinnati with a brokerage firm by the name of Myers, Smith, and O'Brien. 
Tom Cuningham, the New York politician, reports that he saw War­ren Fogel entertaining John Motz and his wife in one of New York's bright spots. 
Joe Lordi has risen to a national figure in squash circles. He received a rating of three this year and the New Yorker called him the Londos of the squash court. Joe plays for the N.Y. A.C. 
I am taking over a new proposi­tion for the summer. It is the op­erating of "The Willows" at Oak­mont, one of Pittsburgh's outstand­ing dancing resorts. 
The stork sent word from the South that Leonard Nalty, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, recently became the father of a daughter, Diane. Leonard operates the Oldsmobile and La Salle agency in Baton Rouge— and is very successful at doing it, according to a pal of his. 
Apparently, you get it in double doses or not at all. Louie Chapleau is the new president of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joe Valley and the new secretary (the only officer) in the Catholic Forum of South Bend. His predecessor in both offices was Louie Buckley, '28. 
Paul Butler, '27, was elected a new director of the Forum, and Father Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., '11, was re-elected a director. 
Professor Walt Langford had an article, "A Plea for Guadalupe," in the April issue of The Annals of Our Lady of Loiirdes, published on the campus. And another article of his concerning Mexico will be published in a forthcoming issue of The Cath­olic World. Walt will return to Mexico City this Summer to continue his advanced studies. 
1931 Secretary: John Berean, 828 E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend, Ind. John Bergan is out promoting a class re-union -again. Listen to his words: Arrangements have been made for the sixth informal re-union of the class of '31. It will be held on Fri­day evening, June 4, at the Maroon Athletic club, 117 South William Street, South Bend, between 9 and 11 p.m. The gathering will be in the form of a smoker, and all members of the class who are in town are in­vited to be present. The latest benedict in the class is none other than Dan Egan, who was 
married at the Log Chapel on the campus early in April. Dan is in the engineering department of the city of Chicago, and both he and his bride are now apartmenting on the south side. 
Among the members of the class participating in the Johnny O'Brien Memorial game held May 2 in the stadium were; Tom Conley, Tom 
Yarr, A! Culver, Frank Leahy, Frank Kerjes, Bernie Leahy, Tom Kassis 
and Bert Metzger. The old timers put on a fine exhibition and showed that they were in pretty good shape physically after six years. 
Tom Cannon has recently been ap­pointed one of the deputy prosecut­ing attorneys of Delaware county, Indiana. John Zuber has retired from the loan business, and is now assist­ant to the president of the Saginaw Furniture Company in his native town, Tom Farrel is employed by the Bendix Products Company in South Bend, and is still single—con­trary to reports circulated by Byron 
Kearney and Ed Barney in Wilkes-
Barre. 
Don McDonald reports that condi­tions are back to normal in his native Flint, and is planning on seeing the old gang at school in June. Andy Kata is practicing law in New Brit­ain, Connecticut, and is planning a trip to North Adams, Massachusetts to see the Joe Wilkes. Joe is com­pleting his fourth year of teaching this year. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to Louie Esposito and Bill Redmond on the death of their mothers last month. 
See you all on Friday, June 4. 
Walt Beesley checks in from Boise, Idaho, where he is on the staff of a newspaper. The Idaho Statesvian. Since March 17 (believe it or not!) Walt has been the father of a young Irishman named Jerry Patrick Bees­ley. 
The Boise boy was working with Leo Hood, '14, in arranging a Uni­versal Notre Dame Night program over the local radio station, and wrote to the Alumni Office for fur­ther dope. He reports good things about all the Notre Dame boys in Boise, among them Leo Hood, Tom­my Jones, Mike and Fran Neitzel and Paul Kohout. 
A letter from Bill McCarthy tells that he is still with the Kansas City Power and Light Company and has recently moved to 34 East 32nd Street Terrace. 
Henry Lucero is (or soon will he) in South America as a representa­tive of the Merganthaler Linotype Corporation, according to informa­tion from his good friend Tom Mason, of The Ave Maria shop. Until re­cently Henry had, by special request. 
been editor of the Citizen, a news­paper in Las Graces, New Mexico. 
193 2 Secretary: Herbert Giorfrio. 9005 188th St.. HoIHs. L. I.. New York. 
1932 FIVE-YEAR RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

Local General Chairman Ed O'Mal­ley reports that every sign points to the w.k. bigger and better. 
"We've got everybody, as well as everything," sez the President's sec. And, looking over the records to date, we believe it. 
Jack McGrath is the chairman in charge of the stupendous Friday night session at the Columbia Ath­letic Club (former K. of C. building) on West Jefferson Boulevard, South Bend. Jack says that the big festivi­ties there •ivill get under way at 9 o'clock, daylight saving time, and 
that Father Frank Cavanaugh has 
accepted an invitation to speak— briefly. There will be lots of every­thing and everhody to keep the hours moving fast. Jack promises. 
Joe Petritz (if he has his depart­ment for the ALUJINUS out by then) will handle the '32 golf tournament. Joe will have the red hot details of the combat ready for you when you reach the campus. 
Assisting Eddie" O'Malley in ar­ranging the program, in addition to Jack McGrath and Joe Petritz, are Professor Dominick Napolitano, Pro­fessor Frank O'Malley, Bernie Roe­
thele. Professor George Hennion, Jerry Hodges, John Bognar and Jim Carrico. 
All returning '32ers will, of course, he housed in one hall so that they can keep each other awake. (Infor­mation as to just which hall will be readily accessible at the entrance to the campus.) The general Commence­ment events, in addition to special '32 events, will provide an exceeding­ly full and happy week-end. 
The following had (up to the time this copy was prepared) told Ed that they'd be present: 
John Collvillc G. B. Linn Gene Connelly Edwin T. Kolslii Ray Geicer John Harrinsrton Noble HarbauKh Wm. F. Freidhoff 
John F. Kramer Jerry Conway Joseph McDonald James Chadwick Joseph Murray Georjre Brown, C.S.C. Dr. Henry Asman W. F. Fitzserald 
Joseph Blaney William Kirby Leo Schiavone Georffe Arehart 
Marchy Schwartz Thomas Bums Bob Rohrbach Frank Conboy Paul McConnell Frank Denney Ed J. Koontz James H. Dubbs 
Jim Collins John Kerlin Bill Brown Harry Kilburger 
F. L. Murray Donald Killian 
Walter F. Mullen W. A. Mortensen 
J. Reins Kuhn M. Kelly Powers 
Bob Gorman Dick Roney Cornelius Ruffing Ben Salvaty Edmund Britz Joseph Sinkule 
Georce Hennion Bill Slader John Jauch Ralph Witt William J. Jones Frank Ernst 
Nathan D. Altznan Harry Behrman 
M. K. Madden Drew SUeUer Tom McKevitt Willie Weir John L. Mulhall Jim Ward Myles Mullen Leo McLauEhlin PanI OTooIe Henry Donalty Louis R. Rohlot Georite Scelinger ainton Watson Bill Darrow Edward A. Wrisht Budd Dyniewicz Jerry Wilson Tom Magee Walter A. Kiolbasa James Walder Ed Melchione James Ward Joe Petritz Richard T. Sullivan John Hamilton Frank Norton Geonte C. Ussher Howard Miller Francis M. Marley Harold V. Lappln Frank Miller Neil C. Hurley, Jr. .loe Toiissaint Jack P. Gucnn Martin TorborB Richard G. Cannon Charles Petretic 
And, of course, there will be many, many more. 
G. Bentley Ryan has announced his association with Gregson Bautzer for the general practice of law in the Equitable Building, Los Angeles. 
Secretary Giorgio is looking for­ward to big things for June 4, 5 and 
6. He says: 
Budd Dyniewicz writes from De­catur, Illinois, where he is located with the Deep Rock Oil Corporation, that he is the proud daddy of a six months old baby girl. Congratula­tions, Budd, and best of wishes to you and Mary and the baby. Budd will be in South Bend in June. 
Frank Oberkoetter and Ernie Hechinger are in Peoria, Illinois. Frank has a photo studio and is do­ing a lot of commercial work for Caterpillar Tractor Co., and Ernie is assistant to the purchasing agent for the A.B.C. Washing Machine Co., and he knows his A.B,C.'s. 
Fran and Dick Oelerich are work­ing for their dad. Each is married and has children. Fran has a boy "Butch," and Dick has a Junior and a daughter, Sharon. Fran is presi­dent of the Chicago Club this year. Congratulations, Fran and Dick! See you in June for a game of touch football. 
Jack Geddes is with the Pure Oil Company, and is taking care of their bond issues. See you in June, Jack. Bring Jack Hogan and Jack Matthew* with you. 
Jim Igoe, married to Olive Oeler­ich, is secretary of a lithograph com­pany in Chicago. 
Ed Melchione is physically practic­ing law in Chicago. 
Clate "Stormy" Duerr is in Waco, Texas, with his wife, working for the United Drug Company. 
Frank Mailey, attorney and coun­selor at law, of Fostoria, • Ohio, will attend the re-nnion in June with George Seelinger, of my bailiwick. George is interning at Msiry Immacu­late Hospital where my brother is entering in June. 
From Home I received word that Rev. Loras Thomas Lane was or­dained on the feast of St. Joseph, March 19. 
By now you have all received your cards from Ed O'Malley. Be sure to co-operate with him by returning your reservations for the week-end. It won't be long, boys. Are you go­ing to attend or are you going to miss the only five-year re-union we will ever have? 
Bob "Pete" Streb writes from Can­ton, Ohio, that while they do not have an organized Notre Dame club in Canton, they are taking part in the anti-Communism program of the Association. Ray T. Miller gave an address against Communism, spon­sored by the local K. of C. Among the Notre Dame men present were: Emmet Ott, ex. '33, Zeno Staudt. '30, George Maloney, '34, William Waltz, '29, Ed Streb, ex. '34, Tom Lee, '29, Glen Dubs, '35, Norb Har­bert, '30, Ray Cakes, '35, and Bob Streb. Bob is hoping to "get at least one crew to make graduation this year from Canton." 
Tom Magee passes on some gi-and dope for you all in the following: 
Ed O'Sullivan, late of various Eastern points, has been in town the past two months. He is economic surveying for the U. S. Department of Labor, and has verj' kindly paid us several pleasant ^^sits. His hopes for re-union depend on Hon. Secretarj-Perkins. 
George Harrison, first yearing at Hahneman Medical, dropped in on us. He and Ed are neighbors for the present. En route home to -Ashland, Wisconsin, he will make the re-union. He's given me some low-down on the Lyons days of roommates Wee Har­rington and Bill Murray. 
Norb Crowe signs in from Detroit. He hopes Congress will adjourn be­times so Bill Newbold can be on hand. How about it, Bill! 
En route from Georgia, Al Schu­macher will pick up his former run­ningmate Clay Johnson (who, O'Sul­livan said, was teaching at Catholic 
U. Law). 
Vince O'Neill and Ed Fitch will re­sume that golf rivalrj' that at times threatened the caf's serenity. Um­piring as of yore will be Al Eachern 
and Jack Matthews. 
New England still has a voice: Walt Noonan will demand he and roommate Charlie Garvey he at least allowed to see No. 2 Corby sub. 
"D. F." McManus swears he's not from Pitchburg, if he be left out out of that golf soiree. 
Cap'n McCormick's afraid his legs are not what they once were. But sends a slight hope he'll he on hand. They say Florida is nice, even in Summer. Art Himbert will have a job defending that claim. 
Unfortunately, those Texas Rang­ers and Arizona lads haven't got roun't' to ans' rin' our plea for The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Southwest support. How about it, 
Jim Kooni? Clayt Duerr will pep 
'em up. 
But good news comes from farther North. Frank Moo» will be one from Nebraska. We're still awaiting con­firmation from Baden Powell in Omaha. McEachem is working on 
Arnold Klein. We wish him luck. 
Last call for you, too, Marty Dolan! 
Shame for another Comhusker! Joe Laughlin, we've heard, is as close as nearby Wilmington (Delaware) with the Travelers. But seeing (or hearing from him) is believing. 
From "way out West," Washing­ton, Bill Webster heads the Coast parade. Where did Bill Croxall get to ? And Al Scharback—or is Oregon out of the Union? 
193 3 Secretary: Donald Wise. 110 Pleasant 
•'"'*'*' St.. Joliet, 111. 
Ray Naber writes: 

Here are a few lines from one of the many flood refugees of Louis­ville. I have been away from home since January 22 when "old man river" visited our house with eight feet of water on the first flood. 
(Tom Sherman, ex. '33, was also 
rudely ousted by the flood.) 
Here are some views of the boys. I received a long letter from Jack Barrett, of Alexandria, Louisiana, who is away out West at Ft. Peck, Montana, working as a quantity engi­neer on the government project. Jack saw Jack Poynton in Chicago. He also WTites that Tom David is with the Louisiana Highway Commission, and Albert David with Gulf State Utili­ties at Beaumont, Texas. Pat Bums, of Natchez, is still in Natchez. 
John Yeiser, of Paducah, was in Louis\'ille in December. John is an up-and-coming business man of Pa­ducah where he is credit manager of a hosiery concern. 
Carroll Stuby is in Cleveland for Proctor and Gamble. Seton Staley remains in Cincinnati as. a salesman for a cake company. 
Yank Terry, of Bedford, Indiana, ex. '33, turned in a creditable per­formance for the Louisville Colonels on yesterday afternoon. This is his second year here with the local ball club. 
I was in Cincinnati a short time ago and had a ^-isit with Jack Meitter in Newport where he, I understand, is making a good reputation as a law­yer. Larry Zeff, ex. '34, was over the same night with his wife. 
Jim Gilfoil is settled down at Lake Providence, Louisiana. 
Yours truly, after knocking about for some time, is settled now with Joseph I. Seagram & Sons, Inc. here. Any of the boys desiring to see how real bourbon whiskey is made, come see Seagram's most modem plant. 
May. 1937 

Loren Hess was recently chosen as secretarj' of the South Bend Council of Social Agencies. Professor Frank 
T. Flynn, of the University, is exec­utive secretary of the organization. 
Bob Hamilton, '34, brought word to the campus not long ago that Maurice Scanlon is residing in Mil­waukee and traveling in southeastern Wisconsin- for the American Tobacco Company. 
* 

293 4 Secretary: James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale Ave.. Chtcafro. III. 
That long lost man, Jim Moscow, finally cracked through with this de­lightful stuff: 
Since this issue of the ALUMNUS will be the last before the Com­mencement exercises in June, I'd like to suggest that all of you hoys start thinking about getting together on the campus over that week-end. Last year the number of '34 men who came back was almost negligible, and it was no one's fault hut your own for missing a great time. 
How would you like to have a golf tournament of our own this year? 
(Vince Fehlig and Bill Veeneman, John Montedonico, et al will be ex-
officio members of the committee, and, hence, just as "ex-officio" ineli­gibles for any prizes.) Incidentally, none of you boys will be fined for sending me any suggestions for this affair in June or any news about themselves or buddies. Off hand, I can't think of any Chicagoans who have an excuse for not being present except, perhaps. Jack Kiely. Eog will be on the man-iage route that month, and right here we want to extend our heartiest congratulations to him and Betty. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was two days late reaching Chicago (held on April 21), but from the con­sensus of opinion it was a sure "winner." 
Supporting Schnozzle Durante and Joe Brown as unofficial entertainers were "The Kiep's Jester" including in the main — besides Em — Eag Reese, Jack Quirk, and Ed Angsten. The above "sketch" artists were min­gled in among Sam Holland John Kiple, John Lynch, Jack Beckley, John Sullivan, Clar Hellwig, Art O'Neil, Jim Morrison, Fran Mathys, Tom Burke, John Ruppel, Larry Li­calzi, Joe Novack, Bill Doyle, and George Demetrio who, with Tom La-Londe, was scouting for the '35 class. Al Orzechowski was also an inter­ested spectator. 
John Ruppel, all the way from Cleveland, and more recently Har­vard, is enagegd in merchandising work with Marshall Field's. 
Many thanks to Ed Holman for his letter from Leavenworth, Kansas, where he is diligently practising law. I admired his subtle remark about "how much he enjoys the '34 column in the ALUMNUS which keeps him in 
touch with the whereabouts of so many of the boys." Well, anyway, Ed, it doesn't take very long to read it. 
And right here is recalled a letter of sevei-al months ago from Eddie O'Brien in Pittsburgh, who hinted that an ad be put in a Lost and Found column for the return of your class secretary. Mr. and Mrs. O'Brien (the erstwhile Miss Janet Haverty of St. Mary's) are doing very well, thank you! 
Russ Leonard reports from Louis­ville the bad news that Charley Schwartzel, that New Albany dyna­mo, was injured in an automobile accident. We were all mighty glad to learn later that there were no ser­ious developments, and by this time Charley is, no doubt, cavorting around again with full steam ahead. 
Jim Morrison, veiy obligingly giv­ing up his search for furniture (it will take place in Fall) during one of his lunch hours, crashes through with a tidy bit of news. He quotes: "Bill Rothenstein will receive his law degree in June from Pittsburgh Uni­versity, and takes his bar exam in Philadelphia shortly thereafter. Hugh Murphy is an accountant with the Koppers organization, also in Pitts­burgh. Hugh will be married in the Log Chapel on June 3. Frank Ma­thys has passed the Illinois bar and is cun-ently employed with the ad­justment department of the Travelers Insurance Company. 
"Bud Nortman is a recent bride­groom doing architectural work for Loebl & Schlossman, in Chicago. 
"Larry Gross, of Tarrj'town, New York, is also man-ied and studying law. Red Curran has recovered from a two months' illness and once more is at the post. Nice going. Red. 
"Bud Kramer is doing veiy nicely for himself as Peoria manager of the Dun and Bradstreet office. Bob Kolb and Will Malloy are attending Akron University, while Dave Walsh is a national bank examiner traveling throughout the Cleveland Federal Reserve District." 
Thanks very much, Jim, I hope you may have given some of the other boys a good example to shoot at. 
Ed Moran is one fellow who may not welcome the advent of Spring. What will he do with that huge fur coat from under wMch he sells a goodly amount of plumbing supplies for the Tyne Company? 
Congratulations to Bill Motsett upon the recent announcement of his engagement. 
Frank Brady has landed a fine engineering position with the city of Chicago. He, as well as Dick Cahill, the law book publisher, tell of Leo Brugger's becoming a full-fledged mortician in Erie, Pennsylvania. 
Vince McCanney just returned from a vacation in Florida to resume his chores with the C. and E. I. Rail­road, in Chicago. 
See you all in June! 
The following came through from Fran Toomey; 
Frank Palmasani, ex. '34, is night manager of a New York hotel and going fine; Johnny Wallace is with Stem Brothei-s; Jack Egan is with Abraham & Sti-auss somewhere in BrookljTi; Gil Coyne is making his million on Wall Street; Fran Toomey and Bob Sullivan are still taking care of the "bad boys" who are sent to a delinquent institution; Walt Kennedy is with Catholic Charities in Connecticut; Rocco Cacciatore is with the same agency in New York; Leonard Cacciatore does the Same type of work in Yonkers; Bill Klima combines law and business; and Pat Flannery, as far as we know, is still with the Long Island Lighting Com­pany, and climbing steadily. 
Ralph Else sends some welcome news from Buffalo: 
I was very glad to see Clint Win­ters, '34 ,about a month ago. Clint is, or rather was, working for the Worthington Pump and Machinery Corporation in Harrison, New Jersey, and was ti-ansferred to the Chicago bi-anch. Clint drove up in his new Dodge. However, I had him there because I just bought a '37 Pontiac sedan. Clint reported Les Jandoli, '34, in the insurance business and doing w^ell. 
I have been planning on driving up to Watel•to^\•n some week-end and looking up Joe Vaughan, '34. Last reports from Joe was that his father had suffered either a broken back or a broken neck. 
John Pavlick writes, in sending in his dues, that he is teaching in a high school, coaching the high school de­bating team and attending Duquesne Law School three nights a week. And he just doesn't know what to do with his spare time! 
193 5 Secretary: F. C. Hochreiter. 1014 N. 
Eddy St., South Bend. Indiana. 

Gentlemen of the Class of '35; It has been some time since your one-time prexy has written anything to you, but he ^vants to do so now. He wants to pay his personal tribute to that secretary of secretaries, that columnist of columnists, that man among men, none other than roomie FRANKLYN C. (Rover Boy) HOCH­REITER. Seriously, "Hoch" has done a re­markable job of scribing for the class. He has done much to keep the class welded. The letters that come to him and a few to me (thanks for your letter, JIM HILL) prove that 
fact. We can do no more now thank the Hoch for hi* fine work. Perhaps at the five-year re-nnion, we'll present the little Casanova with a watch or something. Anyhow, my thanks to him. 
And here's a fond hope that a lot of you will be back for Commence­ment. Bring the wives or sweetheart* along. 
TOM PROCTOR. 

As ever—^here is Hochreiter: We thought with the return to copious material last month we would be able to end up the year with the proverbial "bang." But, this volume goes back several paces and we again have a pamphlet rather than a tome for you. Tragedy paid a visit to the Korxen­eski family on the 24th of March when Art's mother died of a heart attack. The class of '35 extends to its "top-notcher" and his brother Bernard, '28, profound sympathy. At this time we have also a belated expression ond condolence for Fran Dunn, whose father passed away sev­eral months ago; and also for Don Haverick, who lost his mother a short while back. These people insist upon victimiz­ing themselves to "old" Dan Cupid. The latest man to fall before the bow and arrow is Ray Bambenek. His college-day pal, Vic Kurzweg, sent us the first dope on the wedding which was solemnized on April 3, in St. Mary's Chapel, Boston Univer­sity. Then "King" La Londe way out in Sioux City, Iowa, enclosed a picture of the bride to us. Mrs. Bambenek was Lucy Lorraine Kelly, of Newton Centre, Massachusetts. The Bambeneks are honeymooning in Bermuda. We wish you both much happiness. The account that accompanied the bride's picture in the Winona paper read as follows: "He (Ray) is now associated in business with his father in the Peerless Chain Company,'! in the home town of Winona, Minne­sota. Previously Ray took work at Harvard Law School and Babson In­stitute. 
Since Vic's letter came from Lin­coln's Inn, Cambridge, Massachusetts, we gather that the Louisiana boy is still lawing it at Harvard. 
Early in April there came to our hands what at first purported to be an anonymous letter. But the writer finally took compassion on us and stowed away his moniker at the bot­tom of the last page. The writer was Fran Toomey, of the class of '34 Fran was (and still is) one of the devotees of Jim Ross' Tavern on 51st and 6th. Much of his dope was for his own class column, and that will be passed on to the proper source, but he did include some info for our chatter sheet. 
It seems that several of our boys have been frequenting the Ross em­porium of good fellowship. Among 
them are Bob Lannon and Connor 
Cronin. Even BufTalo has been rep­resented in the mechanically-minded Frank Cass. (.A.re you doing work in the metropolis, Fi-ank?) 
Jerry Mergardt, ex. '35, of that upper Hudson town of Brewster, is reputed to often visit Jimmie's dis­pensary. (What are you doing now. Jeny? How about a line some time? There are a lot of us who would like to know about your program of life.) 
Fran writes that the gala evenings are still in full swing in the shadow of Radio City, and that many old grads often drop in for a drink and a chat. 
We have meant to pass on the news for some time that Paul Locher, ex. '35, is back on the campus this year to continue his studies, in Arts and Letters. Paul, as you will re­member, had to leave our i-anks as a Sophomore because of ill health. He now looks hale and heai-tj-. 
-About the middle of -April we saw John Allen in the caf. Since we were not alone, and since he also was with a party we were not able to discover his affih'ations at the mo­ment. 
Roomie was in Chi a few week­ends back (oh, for the life of a law­yer!) and saw Joe "Tiger" Flynn who looked prosperous and who is still associated with the same outfit. 
Word comes to our ears that Bill Murray was married at Notre Dame on the 17th of .April. He was seen on the campus that week-end, and he made known that it was to be married. Perhaps we will be able to get the inside dope on the lucky wo­man for the next issue. 
Wliile on business in the Regis­trar's ofiice recently we happened across the information from the Di­rector of Studies department that our friend Vince Gorman has ap­plied for admission to Catholic Uni­versity as a "special student" in the College of Arts and Sciences. If that project goes through Vince vA\l be close to the twin sisters across the street at Trinit>'. (How about a first hand check on this "old man of the mountain"?) 
Louis Buckley, '28, called us in his office one morning to volunteer a letter from Frank Koppelberger. 
It seems that Frank was on the cam­pus the week-end of March 27, and much to his chagrin found none of his old colleagues about. (We would liked to have seen you at 1014, Prank.) Frank, at the instant, is in­terested in getting a hold of informa­tion on the Labor situation and also on the Wagner Law. 
We quote (with permission) the last paragi-aph of his letter. "I am The Notre Dame Alumnus 
working in Bay City at the present time, and enjoy it very much. I am trying to get as much information concerning Labor Legislation as pos­sible, because something along this line is always popping up, at this plant." Frank, as you know, is with the Electric .Auto-Lite Company, and from his missive, in the Payroll De­partment. 
Shortly after we turned in our "whisperings" for April a long letter came from Bob Fox, from Hot Springs National Park, Arkansas, where he is vacationing and resting at the St. Joseph Sanitarium. (We appreciate your comments on the col­umn, Bob, and shall always be anx­ious to hear from you, with or with­out the precious "dope" for our I'amblings.) 
Evidently Bob Donahue is vaca­tioning out West, too, as Bob men­tioned bumping into him in the locker room (must we say "club house" when speaking of Donahue?) the rrorning of his writing. We hear the "red-headed" champ is shooting an 81 now. Bob told Bob that the former had seen Bill Cole and John Montedonico recently. We are bet­ting it was on the first tee. 
Bob saw Bus Breen at the Drake not long ago, and he is still hitting Blackstone at Northwestern. They belong to the same golf club. (Looks like you have an opportunity to pass on that Fox beer, "IJus.") 
Wallie O'Brien passed the word on to Bob that Bob Hogan's (e.\-. '35) father has sustained many headaches recently during the cab strike in Chi-For those of you who do not remem­ber Bob Hogan, he is the wild Irish­man who used to volunteer to take us all Yellow Cabing in Chi any time we visited the windy city. 
Word comes along about Tom Walsh from Iowa way. Correspond­ent Fox tells us that Tom is now working on the Grand Conlee in the state of Washington. Tom has been out there since shortly after gradua­tion, we believe. 
While out in Nebraska last year Bob was best man for the wedding of Mark Walsh. We might claim credit for Mark's loyalty though he finished up in Febi-uarj', '36. Bob was married on May 25 of last year and brought his wife back to the last Commencement. 
Bob sends word of another exer— Wild Bill McElIigott. He was also at the Drake. 
The Fox boy is at present, and has been since commencement, working for his father and uncles at the Peter Fox Brewing Company in Chi. The '35or is a salesman, and if we know him we might prefix that with a "super." They put out the "Fox Deluxe" and not "Fox Head." Read­er: please note! 
May. 1937 
Bob tells us that the brewery was 

host to the Chicago Club last Fall, 
and that among the '35ers attending 
were Claude Tourek and former vice­
prexie, Norb Hart. (We shall cer­
tainly visit you and yours at your 
hostelry when we have occasion to 
visit "the city at tfhe foot of the 
lake," Bob, and, never accuse a Ger­
man of thinking beer too plebian.) 
Your scribe went lecturing last month. We had to pinch hit for Jim Armstrong at a Kiwanian dinner in Bremen, Indiana. Besides chalking the affair up to experience the whole business afforded us a swell review of the subject of probation. 
We have heard ver>- little from the crowd about the approaching Com­mencement. Several have mentioned in their letters that they will be around the "bend in the river" but no one has suggested that any pro­gi-ani be arranged for the '35ers. It is not too late if anyone has an idea on the matter. We will be here throughout the week-end, and will be glad to arrange something if a suffi­cient number express their desire to participate. 
Here is hoping that we will see a goodly mass of you back for the three day festival. We will find room for all of you, and throw in a little refreshments to boot. 
Vic Mettler, according to reports from the training camp of the In­dianapolis Indians of the American -Association, was showing a batting average of .47G as an outfielder, and just about assuring himself of a place on the club's permanent roster for the season. Andy Pilney is to report to the Boston Bees on May 20, although he'll probably be turned over later to an International league team. (Both items from the South Bend Tribune.) 
1936 ^°^^ Moran. 61 E. 95th St.. Apt. 2. 
New York City. 

Revenuer Moran herewith makes a swellegant start on his news duties: 
At the Rockne Memorial Commun­ion Breakfast, Sunday, -April 4, Jim Kirby, Walt Matusevich, Andy Huf­nagel and myself wei-e on hand to honor Notre Dame's great coach. Following the Mass, in one of the chapels of St. Pati-ick's Cathedral, approximately 150 gathered in the Centre Club for an excellent break­fast and some excellent speeches. 
Kirby informed me that the ac­countants of '3G are doing very well. Bill S.T.ith (Chicago) is with Price-Waterhouse in his home city. Jack Barber is now employed by a New York accounting firm, possibly Ar-thus -Anderson. Gene Malloy, another of Dean McCarthy's figure adders, is with the Burroughs -Adding Machine Company in Chicago. As for the rest of the accountants, I'd be glad 
#)l» ^' 

m 
• • \ 

236 Th Notre Dame Alumnus May. 1937 
Qi'inmiiniMttniiniiniitiiiuiniiniriiiiiifiiHiittimiMiHiiTmi I contemplate going out to Notre 
to hear from them, and I know their classmates would be also. Dame for Commencement this June, 
I The 1937 | 
I Reunion | I Classes I 
1932 (Five year) 1926. 1927. 1928, and l929(Dix) 1912 (Twenty-five year) 1907.1908, 1909. and 1910 (Dix) 1888. 1889, 1890, and 1891 (Dix) 1887 (Fifty year) 1897 (Special 40th) 1917 (Special 20lh) 1922 (Special 15th) 
St. Joe Hall (Special) 
The dates: 
June 4, 5 and O 
FURTHER INFORMATION: 
From this issue of ALUMNUS, from your Class Secretary, or from the Alumni Office. 
Final Warning: Better be on deck! 
m... 
Kirby also passed on the informa­tion that Gil Moty is selling the na­tives auto accessories in his father's store back in Klamath Falls, Oregon. Let's hear what the rest of the far westerners are doing, Gil. 
The class of '35 was represented at the Communion Breakfast by Louie Grosso, now at Columbia Law School, Bill Schir.idt, and several others. Bill informed me that his brother, Dick, is doing very well as an engineer with the Macet Chemi­cal Co., in Niagai-a Falls. Also work­ing with Dick are Ed Smith, C.E., from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and Jim Seymour, gi-aduate student dur­ing 1936, Bill Gottsacher, another of Dean McCarthy's students, later taking a training course at Hartford, is now running his own insurance agency in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, his old home town, according to Schmidt. Ray Herrly is managing a briquet coal plant for his father in Minne­sota. And that accounts pretty well for the old fourth floor of Walsh. Let me hear from any other of Fa­ther Marr's "young gentlemen." 
At the breakfast I also met John 
Roche and Howie Waldron from the 
class of '34. Howie, a former Scho­lastic scribe and Bengal Bout pro­moter, informed me that brother, Joe, is still with the B. Altman De­partment store here in the city. Howie himself has temporarily for­saken journalism for the real estate and insurance fields. 
Other information on Noti-e Dame gi-ads is to the effect that Jim Reilly, ex. '3G, is working at F. Schumacher Co., 60 West 40th Street, New York City. Joe Bucci, '35, according to journalist Bud Goldman, is selling insurance for the Mutual Life of Boston, back in the old home town, Amsterdam, New York. 
I have attended sevei-al of the Broadway di"amatic offerings in com­pany with Andy Hufnagel and Walt 
Matusevich. Also see Bud Goldman 
frequently (whenever Hearst and the International News Sei-iice can spare him). Bumped into Hank McDonald sevei-al weeks ago. Hank stated that he is still employed by the Western Union here in New York. Have also ran across Charley Clark sevei-al times, and hope to have lunch with him and Goldman sometime this week. Charley is working and go­ing to Fordham Law School, but still finds time to drop up to Ross' Tavern at Gth Ave., and Slst Street, where one can usually be certain of meet­ing several Notre Dame alumni. Friends of Jim Ross', '34, the Tav­ern's genial host, will be glad to hear that Jim became the father of a husky prospective AU-American on April 3. 
and I would appreciate it if anyone from the New York area who is driv­ing out, would let me know. Also, if any from '36 are planning to be present, I would appreciate a line from them, so that I won't miss them when in South Bend. And in the meantime, let's hear from some of the other members of the old class, particularly from the West and South. 
A last minute post card from Pat Tofuri informs me that Pat is study­ing for his 3I.A. in social work at Notre Dame, as are Leo MacFarlane and Jack DeGarmo, as well as Mick­ey Walker. Pat adds a few items re­garding his fellow Massachusetts gl-ads, — namely that Wayne Millner is with the Massachusetts highway department; that George Moriarity, who coaches at Racine, Wisconsin, drops down to school every so often, and that Andy Scafati helped coach the Dedham, Massachusetts, high school team through an undefeated season. Thanks for the card, Pat, and I hope to hear from you again verv soon. 
A letter from George Leyes re­poits that he is a lighting specialist in San Francisco with the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, and is resid­ing at 821 Gear}' Street. George had seen Fred Shanley, '35, who Is in the accounting department of the Postal Telegi-aph in San Francisco. He had also been in touch with Keene Fitz­patrick, ex. '11, and Bemie Abrott, '27, both of the Golden Gate. 
Paul Schrenker is deputy prosecut­ing attorney of Madison County, In­diana, and has his headquarters in his home town of Elwood. 
According to the local Neivs-Times, Frankie Gaul, the property of the Chicago Cubs, vd\l be farmed out to the Moline, Illinois, club for the present season—if Frankie consents. 
Tom Adamson, through Bob Le-
mire, '38, sends word that he has been happily employed by the Bow­man Dairj' Company, of Chicago, since he finished a year ago. 
Gene Bell, who spent his freshman year at Notre Dame, is attending Oc­cidental College in Los Angeles, where he is now a Senior. He is a member of the Glee Club there, and recently made an extended trip with the club along the Pacific coast. 
George Keller has been practicing law in Niles since his graduation. He was admitted to the Michigan bar soon after he finished at N.D., and was recently admitted to the Indiana bar. 








