The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 23 JUNE. 1945 No. 3 
Twenty-three young members of the Congregation of Holy Cross are ordained to the priesthood in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, on Sunday, June 10. His Excellency, Most Rev. Amieto Giovanni Cicognani, J.U.D., '38, Apostolic Delegate (lower right), officiated. 
• South Bend Tribune picture by Dale Murphy 
1^ 
tt 
^it'i •t.ii 
m 
CHECK THEM We often excuse dirty stories by say­

AUuiuU Relifi04€d> &HUeilH ing, "There's no real harm done." Only 
God knows the full harm done by them 

BY REV. JOHN P. LYNCH. C.S.C., 'S5 : 
—and only God sometimes knows the 
FOB WOHBY WAHTS There's two whole days out of every three about which we shouldn't worry. 
One of these days is yesterday with its mistakes and cares and regrets. Those faults and blunders are beyond our control. 
The other day we shouldn't worry about is tomorrow with its possible adversities, burdens and crosses. Tomor­row is also quite be­Father Lynch yond our control. 
That leaves just today. Any man can fight the battles of one day. It's the re­morse or bitterness of yesterday or dread oyer tomorrow that makes us punch drunk. 
Long before the psychiatrists, Christ gave us the cure for worry. "Consider the lilies of the field — Your Father knows you need all these things — Seek ye first the Kingdom of God — Sufficient to the day is its own trouble." 
GOING IT AIONE 
But what about the worry and cross of just that one day? Even the cross of to-day, we don't have to bear or face alone. We have Christ to whom we can offer it: Christ with \S'hom we can share it. 
It is a Christ Who can understand; it is a Christ Who has suffered every worry or tragedy that we \^^ll ever face. 
Anyone who has had a great sorrow or a deep hurt can testify that only those who have walked the same dark lonely way can speak to their condition. 
No doubt this is why Christ Who drained the dregs of His chalice of sacri­fice and sorrow has such power to heal broken human hearts. By an act and in­sight all His own, He enters into hearts closed to others. 
What sorrow is like unto His sorrow and what touch can reach the secret hurt of man like His touch. 

,• THE MASS IS PRACTICAL My cross or sorrow need not be some great tragedy. It can be the burdens great or small that fall across our lives in every-day life. The cross can be that toothache, or headache. It can be a bad heart, high 
blood pressure. It can be financial re­
verses or stolen money. 
It can be hard work, worry over the 
children, death in the family. 
It can be our disappointment, irrita­
tion, frustration, or suffering. 
We can make that our offering to Him 
and with Him at Mass. . 
When the priest holds up the paten 
with the host and the chalice with the 
wine, we, too, should offer up our daily 
labor and sufferings. 
In the early days of the Church, the 
congregation at the offertory used to 
carry up and offer bread and wine, can­
dles and incense, gifts representing 
themselves, symbolizing their offering 
of themselves. 
Our present offertory collection today has the same purpose as these early pro­cessions but the present method, how­ever, obscures the important idea of "of­fering" ourselves in the Mass. 
CONVERT PAIN INTO GAIN 
We may not be able to get to Mass every day, but we can make that offering of ourselves every day. 
We can make that offering of our work and suffering to Christ especially in the spirit of reparation to the Sacred Heart. 

June is the month dedicated to the Sacred Heart who asks gratitude for His intense and personal love of us and reparation for our sins and the sins of others. 
The Morning Offering offers up our work and suffering of the day to the Sacred Heart in union with the Mass, wherever it is being celebrated through­out the world. 
That Morning Offering converts our work and suffering into a glorious prayer, an offering to and with Christ of our day so that we face the day and its problems not alone but toith and for Christ. 
Archbishop Gushing expressed it bet­ter when he said, recently, regarding the Apostleship of Prayer and the morning offering: 
"Arise, Christian souk! Life is not a monotonoxis round of daily duties. Sanc­tify every second of the day, glorify every practice of life, consecrate every pain, drink a few drops of the bitter­ness tliat overflowed the chalice of Getli­semane—be a co-operator with Christ in the redemptioyi of the /m»non race. Sanc­tify pain, be an apostle of prayer." 
good done by avoiding them. 
A certain Catholic young man didn't know the full effect of his manly rever­ence for purity some years ago. 

Let's call him Bill. His last name was, and is, unknown to the priest involved— but we can be sure God and Our Lady know him. 
Anyway, Bill never joined in the stor­ies when they started in his office at noon-hour. Some of his office associates noticed this, and one cracked about him, "What's the matter with Bill? He always pulls away when we tell stories. Isn't he human? Hasn't he any sense of humor?" Another answered him with, "Oh, Bill is regular all right but he's a Catholic, and he doesn't go in for that sort of thing." 
A non-Catholic, an occasional member 

of the group, one day heard that expla­
nation of Bill's reaction. He didn't know 
Bill except by sight but he thought, "If 
Catholicism can do that to a man, there 
must be something to it besides the stuff 
I've heard about it. I'm going to check 
into it." 
He did. 
THE PAYOFF 

He became a Catholic not long after, a fervent and grateful Catholic. Three years later, he started studies for the priesthood. 
At his First Mass, he gave Commun­ion to his father, mother, and sister, all of whom became Catholics during his seminary years, though at first they op­posed bitterly his conversion and semi­nary entrance. 
Not long after, he began a radio pro­gram at the direction of his Bishop, timed especially toward eliminating big­otry among non-Catholics. His previous background made him particularly fitted for this apostolate. 
Within ten years four hundred con­versions were credited directly to this radio program. 
This .whole chain of events started back in that office when Bill turned aside when the stories started. 
The priest daily prays for his bene­factor whose good example opened his eyes. 
The priest prays for Bill, just Bill. He never knew Bill's last name, so he couldn't write him. 
So, Bill doesn't know yet what he started by his good example. But God knows—and that's enough. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-month]y by the University of Notre Dame* Notre Dame* Indiana. Etatered 
as second class matter October 1. 1939, at the Postofflce, Notre Ikaoe, Indiana, under the act of 
August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Coondl and of the National Cathode Ahonmi I^ederation. James E. Aimstiong. '25, Editor; VnUiam B. Doolar. '26, Managing Editer 
Vol. 23 JUNE, 1945 No. 3 
Notre Dame Looks to the Future 
By REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL. CS.C. 
(On April 17, 19^5, in Chicago's Palmer House, Father O'Donnell deliv­ered this address at the dinner which marked the Universal Notre Dame Night observance of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. It is, you will agree upon reading it, one of the most significant addresses in modem Notre Dame his­tory.—Eds.) 
In these days there is a strong tempta­tion to talk about the effect that the war has had upon institutions of higher learning, particularly the privately-owned colleges and universities. I shall not dwell upon these, however, nor upon the steps that Notre Dame took in order best to adjust our facilities to our coun­try's needs. One reason is that you are already familiar with them through the columns of the ALUMNUS; also, many of you have direct contacts with the University. You know that we have long been oifering college-level courses for defense workers; that special re­search for the government is constantly going on in our laboratories; that part of our facilities have been turned over to a Naval Reserve Midshipmen's School—^which, by the way, will be dis­continued shortly after November 8; that we are proud of our E.O.T.C. unit; and that for almost two years we have had a complement of V-12 students on the campus. 
Bather, I should like to look into the future to the day when the war is over and Notre Dame will resume its full primary purposes as a university. There will be need for Notre Dame when peacn comes^-a greater need than ever for the intellectual and spiritual stability that can produce leaders who cherish eternal 
President of the University 

truth. A committee on postwar nrob­lems has been studying the changes that peace will bring, and trying to de­termine, in so far as it is possible, how these changes will aHect curricula, en­rollment, personnel, the physical plant, and other matters relating to Notre Dame's welfare. 
. Before I give you a preview, however, I want to express my appreciation of what the alumni have done to- help Notre Dame protect some of the gains that she has made despite these critical times. The Alumni Association's par­ticipation in the Centenary Fund, you recall, amounted to $107,424.13. The Second Annual Fund—even without what might be called the sentimental appeal of the Centenary—amounted to §111,405.56. As I have said before, what holds the brightest promise for Notre Dame's future is the growing realization among alumni that their icon­tinued support is an essential part of Notre Dame's growth and development. 
Four Preliminary Studies 

Now as to the future: The Committee on University Postwar Problems is con­sidering four preliminary studies cover­ing the following: 1) the postwar de­velopment of the Graduate School; 
2) a rehabilitation program for return­ing veterans; 3) technological develop­ments as they affect the College of Engineering and the College of Science, especially in their relations with in­dustry and commerce, and, 4) a pro­gram for strengthening the undergradu­ate school with emphasis on revitalizin.? the program of Liberal Arts and on training men for government service. 
The war caused a decrease in gradu­ate enrollment, and hence a natural 
curtailment of the graduate program. Nevertheless, we have tried to hold our faculty intact as we have gone ahead with research projects especially as­signed to us by the government. At the same tim^ as best we could under wartime conditions, we expanded library and laboratory facilities for the gradu­ate student. But a resurgence of grad­uate study will undoubtedly come with the end of the war, and in anticipation of the problems that expansion will bring, we have reorganized the Graduate School, making it an autonomous body within the University. The reorganiza­tion consists of a dean and a council of ten members to supplant the former Committee on Graduate Study. Also, we plan to raise the Department of English and the Department of History, in which we now confer the master's degree, to the doctorate leveL 
Taldnc a Long-Ranse View 

You know our conviction that the Graduate School is of paramount im­portance to the character of the Uni­versity." We have built ours slowly, but, as we believe, soundly, and we shall continue to strengthen it, to augment the faculty, to attract outstanding stu­dents, and to increase the libraries and laboratories. If I seem to labor this point, it is because the accomplishment of our aim depends in large measure lupon increased endowment. We should, however, look upon the money involved as a sound investment. Every dollar spent on the development of graduate work will contribute to the creation of a g;reater Notre Dame. Furthermore, we must not expect immediate returns, but should take a long-range view. I know of no better illustration of this 
point than the work of the late Father Nieuwland who after fourteen years of research discovered a basic formula from which rubber could be synthesized. Francis P. Garvan, founder and presi­dent of the Chemical Foundation, calcu­lated that Father Nieuwland's discovery had saved the rubber industry the stag­gering sum of $350,000,000 a year. It is ironic to recall that Father Nieuwland himself helped Notre Dame finance this work by making and selling botanical slides. 
It has been said that no engineering or scientific laboratory is ever complete, a remark that is less a reflection on the laboratories than a tribute to technolog­ical progress. Be that as it may, our colleges of science and engineering have kept abreast of developments remark­ably well.- The problems that future advance will present are being studied by a well-qualified committee which is keeping in mind the essential relation­ship of the various departments to in­dustry and commerce. The aim is con­tinued cooperation not only with these groups, but with government, under whose auspices several projects have already been inaugurated at Notre Dame. On recommendation of the Com­mittee on Postwar Problems, I have appointed a committee of faculty mem­bers who, with the secretary of the Alimini Association and the director of public relations, will act as a special g^roup to study the furthering of close relations with industry as they affect re­search, patents and other matters. 
First and Foremost is Faculty 
The task before the Graduate School is great, but it is lightened by the foun­dation on which we have to build; that is, the seven departments in which we are already offering the doctor's degree. Up to the war we were making satis­factory progress in these seven fields; in the postwar period we must take up where we were forced to leave off in 1942. One important phase of the new development must be the cutting across of departmental lines and the promoting of cooperative research projects and course programs to which the staffs of the several departments can contribute. This is definitely the trend of the future, as a result of the cooperative projects carried on in intensive war research. In all our departments of science we must carry out simultaneously programs of long-range fundamental research and short-range applied research, which have been referred to as strategical and tacti­cal programs. 
What are some of the projects that 
we might undertake to advantage if 
means were available? I shall mention 
only a few. In Biology, studies in para­
sitology, and an investigation of coal on 
a paleobotanical and stratigraphic basis. 
In Chemistry, a variety of studies of 
metabolism in animals; a general study 
of molecular or addition compounds in 
solid and liquid states; and synthesis of 
certain compounds of possible therapeu­
tic value. In History, an interpreta­
tive study of the Catholic Church in the 
United States. In Mathematics, the com­
pletion and publication of valuable find­
ings on line integrals, the theory of 
length, and projective and statistical 
generalizations of metric geometry. In 
Mediaeval Studies, publication of im­
portant mediaeval texts hitherto un­
published or published only in uncritical 
and largely useless editions. In Physics, 
studies in. the physical properties of 
natural and synthetic rubber, already 
begun, which should be continued; an in­
vestigation of vibration problems; an 
extension of our methods of nuclear 
spectroscopy to all the elements of the 
periodic table, and the investigation of the production of cosmic radiation. In Metallurgy and Bacteriology the fields of research should be broadened exten­sively. 
You can see now why I say that de­velopment of graduate work to the high­est possible excellence, even within the limits of our present framework, re­quires a large financial investment. The studies I have enumerated, for example, would cost in the aggregate about $300,­COO annually. Capitalized at the rate of 2% per cent, this means a fund of $12,000,000. 
But the first and foremost investment is in faculty. On the building up of a faculty of first-rate men depends the success or failure of our plans. In this connection, may I say that we already have an excellent faculty of devoted priests and laymen. It is imperative, however, that our faculty be imple­mented by additional distinguished schol­ars if our plans for the future are to be realized. An endowed chair, or pro­fessorship, should be established in each of the twelve departments in which pro­grams lead to the master's or the doctor's degree. This requires an endowment of not less than $3,000,000. 
Poit-doctoral Fellowships 
The second investment is in students, whom, in the Graduate School especially, we must subsidize. Before the war we were investing $10,000 annually in schol­arships. In the postwar period we should provide a larger sum for this purpose. 
Besides scholarships for regular gradu­ate students, we should provide in each department offering doctoral work one or two post-doctoral fellowships with stipend of from $1,500 to $2,000 an­nually. Affording a few of the most talented young doctors of the country an opportunity to spend a year in re­search at Notre Dame would be one of the best investments that we could make. 
The third investment is library, which is important to all departments. As soon as the book markets of the world are again open we should for the next few years have a minimum of from $20,000 to $25,000 annually for the pur­chase of research publications. This sum, of course, is independent of the regular library budget for the purchase of current books. 
The Undergraduate Division 
The fourth inviestment is equipment, required of all departments of science and engineering—^the most expensive item of all. Not long ago I had on my desk memoranda from four departments wistfully headed "Kecommended Equip­ment." Each item represented a definite need. The total was almost $130,000. We figure, by the way, a depreciation of at least 14 per cent on equipment in the graduate laboratories. 
A fifth investment, of which I shall say more later, is buildings. 
All five are necessary if Notre Dame is to maintain and enhance h'er prestige as a great Catholic university. The realization of our plans entails a large investment over a period of years. We have, therefore, the added task of raising the necessary funds. To achieve this end, I have given specific instructions to the director of public relations to con­tinue and increase the splendid effort he is already making, so that our endow­ment may be materially increased, and our dream may be well on its way to coming true. 
Meanwhile, we are by no means neglecting the undergraduate division. In times like these Notre Dame must be a bulwark against the philosophy of secularism which denies God and con­fines man's destiny to this earth. In education, this philosophy confuses means with ends. To paraphrase Dean Manion, it is so fascinated by the know­how of education that it forgets all about the know-why. It feels that it does its full duty when it teaches man how to make a living. It sees no necessity for teaching him how to live well. The reasons for its shortcomings—and we see their results on every side of us— lie in a failure, or refusal, to understand the nature and the end of man. 

Secularism fails, or refuses, to under­stand that man's soul gives him intellect and will, that it sets him above brute creation and makes him long to be'the child of God that he is destined to be. Accountability to the Creator is the ulti­mate end of every soul. But God is just. Nothing is more manifest than the fact that if man is to be held accountable for his acts, he must be free to act, to accept or to reject God's commandments. Hence, God, Who gave us life, also gave us freedom—an unalienable right, the nega­tion of which is a defiance of God's crea­tive purpose and a denial of man's indi­vidual responsibility to God. It is the tragedy of our times that a purely secu­lar education destroyed the harmony of the world, cast God out of the life of man, and gradually dehumanized man himself. It made man a glorified animal, sufficient to himself because his suffi­ciency is from nature, and not from na­ture's God. 
The American Tradition 

Naturally, Notre Dame holds to the Christian—and American—tradition of education by offering curricula in which the liberal arts are offered with religion as the cornerstone of the program. This statement may need a word of explana­tion. As members of the Notre Dame family which cherishes the names of Al­bert Zahm, Jerome Green, and Father Julius Nieuwland, we would be the last to minimize the importance of sound pro­fessional or technical training. Our doc­tors, lawyers, eng^ineers, and scientists must have the best possible facilities as they prepare for their chosen work. But we know that before he is a doctor, law­yer, engineer, or scientist, a man is a man. He must be educated as such. His means of livelihood is only part of a full life. Professional training, which devel­ops men qualified in their respective fields, falls properly within the scope of the professional or vocational school. But the primary purpose of the college is to educate the whole man in the finest tra­ditions of Christian culture, to help him mature his faculties of intellect and will. And if we are to develop men with qual­ities of leadership, we must continue to maintain a balance between liberal arts and the technological or specialized sub­jects. Notre Dame will maintain that balance. The sooner education as a whole gets back to it, the sooner we can return to the true American tradition. 
Reference to the "true American tra­dition" prompts me to make this further observation: I have felt for some time, and I think you will agree, that if we believe American democracy has its ori­gin in Christian philosophy, it is incum­bent on schools that teach that philoso­phy to apply it as directly as possible to government. The most direct means is to train young men for public service. Hence, Notre Dame intends to establish an undergraduate course in government service consisting of a major of twenty-four hours with courses in political sci­ence in the College of Arts and Letters, as well as courses in Commerce and Law. The elective hours will be in his­tory. 
The Office of Veterans' Affairs 

Any consideration of the undergradu­ate colleges must also take into account the returning veterans who will continue their education under the provisions of the G. I. Bill of Rights. Like other in­stitutions of higher learning, Notre Dame soon expects to have enrolled a substantial number of students who will be older in years and experience than the boys who enter directly from high school. Anticipating this condition, we have set up a new agency, the Office of Veterans' Affairs, under Father John J. Lane, who prepared himself for the posi­tion by taking special courses in place­ment and counseling at the University of Chicago. The office cooperates closely with the Armed Forces Institute; and under the president and the vice-presi­dent supervises all matters relating to veterans at Notre Dame. 
I am happy to report that Notre Dame, through the Alumni Association, my office, and more recently through the Association's Vocational Committee, has kept in close "touch with most of our 6,500 alumni and former students who are in service. Since the spring of 1942 I have written to all of them at'least four times a year, and have been genu­inely moved by some of the letters I have received in return. But Notre Dame has done more than merely maintain a senti­mental bond. The Vocational Committee sent Notre Dame men in the armed forces a questionnaire as part of a sur­vey to determine two things: 1) how many of them would like Notre Dame to help them with regard to employment in the immediate postwar period; and 2) how many are planning to return to Notre Dame after the war to continue their education. The response has been more than gratifying. 
In accordance with suggestions from the Alumni Association, and in keeping with recommendations of a committee appointed to explore the field, the admin­istration established, last November, a personnel bureau at the University, under the supervision of Father Kehoe, prefect of discipline. Mr. Robert Hc­Auliff(i,.'18, is the director. The need has-been apparent for some time, but we could not act sooner because of the exi­gencies of the war. We have engaged a qualified expert to assist those in charge so that the mistakes so often connected with a new enterprise may be kept to a minimum. In the future, when a student finishes his course at Notre Dame, we hope to have a complete historical rec­ord of his stay on the campus. Allied to the personnel problem is that of place­ment of graduates. I have appointed Father Francis Goodall director of placement. He will supervise this work for all Notre Dame students. He will also serve as director of alumni rela­tions, and assist Messrs. Armstrong and Dooley in the excellent work they have been doing. 
Reference to alumni and students re­minds me of the Notre Dame tradition of helping needy and deserving boys to secure the benefits of a Notre Dame edu­cation. Surely, there has never been a time when the opportunities for men with a Notre Dame training have been so numerous^—opportunities for men with character and knowledge to exer­cise leadership in government, industry, commerce, and the professions. We have been doing what we can through our system of student emplojmient, but that system has been becoming less adequate; and its inadequacy is affecting us when we should be in strong position to offer talented young men, regardless of their lack of financial means, an education that gives them what the Holy Father calls "a purposeful concept of life." 
A Plan for Additional Scholarships 
I have in mind a plan which will do just that—a plan which, through the generosity of the late Augustus Meehan, '94, is already in partial operation. Mr. Meehan's bequest established six schol­arships, one for each of the following states: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia. Each is awarded to a resident of the state who makes the best grade in a competitive examination. I suggest an extension of the plan to the, other forty-two states, so that for the first time, Notre Dame will cover the country thoroughly in grant­ing aid to needy and deserving students. A foundation of approximately $3,000,­000 to provide funds for such scholar­ships can eventually be established by an intelligent presentation of the merits of Notre Dame to persons who appreciate the necessity of providing the United States with leaders in whom sound prin­ciples have been imbued.. 
So much for some of the academic high lights. Now- may I unfold a plan for future building, as submitted by the University's Building Committee, of which Father John Cavanaugh is chair­man. 
You know, of course, that Brownson and Carroll halls have been closed, and that Brownson Study Hall has been re­modeled to help relieve the congestion in the General Offices. A residence hall, therefore is project No. 1. The fact is that we need two residence halls in order to equalize our residential needs with a 2,600 campus enrollment. With 2,600 on campus, the over-all enrollment will ap­proximate 3,200 or 3,400 depending upon the number of religious, graduate stu­dents, and students whose homes are in South Bend and vicinity. 

The Building Program 
Very near the top of the list is a union building, which will fill a long-felt want at the University. It ^\'ill include recrea­tional and social facilities, rooms for meetings and for entertainment of Uni­versity guests. Among other things, it will have some twentj'-five rooms to ac-. commodate parents of students and other visitors. 
Third comes a graduate residence hall, a serious need in the light of our plans for the development of the Graduate School. 
There are other buildings. . . . You have heard me speak before of the im­portance of establishing a center for the fine arts; that is, bringing together under one roof the University Theater and the departments of music, speech, and art, and providing an auditorium that will seat the entire student-body. The need for a new library building also becomes more apparent every day. When it is built, the present stmicture will comfortably, but no more than comfort­ably, house the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, the archives, and the museum. By the way, it seems anomalous that Chemistry Hall, a beehive of activity and the scene of experiments that will influence thousands of lives, should be almost obsolete. It must be replaced as soon as possible. An adoration chapel as a memorial to our veterans is worthy of the most serious consideration. 
Buildings are important. These I have mentioned, and others which are part of Notre Dame's proposed development, would require, for construction and maintenance, about §10,000,000. Build­ings are necessary, but more necessary are men, imbued vrith the right philoso­phy of education, who can teach and do research ^vith a generous spirit charac­teristic of the true artist who realizes that academic results are the fruits of prodigious labor and never-ending sacri­fice. To attract men of this kind, and to keep them, Notre Dame must not only pay salaries in keeping with their abili­ties, but also must help them provide security for their old age. Another com­mendable endowment need, therefore, is a teacher's retirement fund with a goal of at least §500,000. 
"Forward, within Our Pattern" 
I do not believe that I have ever talked to you like this before. I have done so tonight because you should know that Notre Dame has a definite plan for the future, and that we are determined to realize it. If time permitted I could give you many more of the details. What we have in mind requires endowment. This evening I mentioned several specific sums, and they are large as compared with our present endowment of $1,783,­
000. Some of you seemed a bit startled when I mentioned $12,000,000 for the Graduate School. As for myself, I can­not help recalling that this is about what it costs the United States to prosecute the war for one hour, so don't gasp for breath. 
Let me now add that Notre Dame should have approximately ?25,000,000 during the next several years in order to consolidate her position and then go forward, within our pattern, to our goal. As I have already said, "first and fore­most" in its attainment, is faculty. After all, development and progress are nebu­lous words. Building program is another such, dear to the hearts of those who like an impressive looking university. But when Notre Dame speaks of growth, she thinks first of men and their influence in the classroom and outside it—of men whose love of learning makes the teacher linger in his library, spend long hours in his laboratory, and give to his Univer­sity and his students an inspired torch to be proudly borne by both. We shall constantly augment the faculty with men who wll teach in the best tradition of the legendary figures of Notre Dame whom you and I remember and revere to this day because of the inspiration they gave us. With such men Notre Dame -will continue to be what it has always been, a means to one great end, the preservation and dissemination of the Christian culture which is our com­mon heritage and our common hope. Notre Dame is a citadel—to preserve it, to strengthen it, and at the same time to expand the sphere of its influence is the end to which we Notre Dame men re­dedicate ourselves. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vengeance Trail, by Charles N. Heckel­mann, '34. Arcadia House. $2. 
It may seem odd that an escape from the murderous fact of war news can be found in the murderous fantasy of the American frontier. But Charlie Heckel­mann has produced in Vengeajice Trail one of those sagas of the cattle country, where a six-gun holds more logic than Father Crumley's classes. It is a fast­
Lednston—N.Y.C. 
CHARLES N . HECKELMANN, '34 
moving story that will make your teen­age boys and girls resent the suggestion of bedtime. 
Charlie's background is interesting and lends weight to the quality of the just-out novel. Valedictorian and Press Club member here, he was graduated to the Brooklyn Eagle sports staff. Five years with a publishing company as editor and production director were fol­lowed by the last four years with Stan­dard Magazines, Inc. This affiliation finds Charlie working with the Popular Library western and detective stories in the twenty-five cent editions, and a number of magazines in the same fields. 

Charlie has another western novel scheduled for publication this fall. Law­less Range. A moving picture. Stranger From Santa Fe, will introduce the Heck­elmann touch to movie fans, with Johnny Mack Brown and the veteran Raymond Hatton in lead roles. Monogram Pictures will release this soon and has bought an­other story, The Last Outpost, for early production. 


Semindrians Carry on Wartime Projects 
Work With Washington Unit of Vatican Information Service at Request of Apostolic Delegate; Office Has Cleared 750,000 Mes­sages from All Parts of World; Assist With "Chaplain's Digest." 
By .Rev. Edward L Heston, CS.C. 

(High among the contributions of Notre Dame men to the success of World War II are the varioits projects carried on through Holy Cross College, Washing­ton, D. C, the theological seminary of the United States province of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. In this in­spiring article, written at the request of the ALUMNUS, Father Heston tells in detail of these projects.—Eds.) 
The work of the seminarians of Holy Cross Colleije, Washington, D. C. with the Washington unit of the Vatican In­formation Service began in November, 1942, at practically the very outset of the functioning of the service in the United States on a lax-ge scale. The superior of Holy Cross College, Father Christopher J. O'Tooole, C. S. C, '29, in response to a request from His Excel­lency, the Apostolic Delegate, placed the facilities of the College at the disposal of His E.xcellency for this work. 
A group of four seminarians was assigned to the work at first, under the direction of the Rev. Mr. Thomas McDonagh, C. S. C, later ordained in 1943. The four men were Father McDonagh, with Messrs. William T. Duffy, C. S. C, '41, Central Falls, E. I.; Jerome M. Boyle, C. S. C, '35, M.A., '36, Gary, Ind.; Peter J. Scullion, C. S. C, '42, Chicago. Within a short time the volume of work increased to such propor­tions that it was necessary to augment the staff with Mr. Joseph W. Rehage, 
C. S. C, '42, New Orleans, La., and Mr. Robert J. Lochner, C. S. C, '36, Cleve­land. The ordination of Mi*. McDonagh in June, 1943, made it necessary to add a replacement in the person of Mr. Ray­mond F. Conmy, C. S. C, '43, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
To the work of the Information Serv­ice, the men of Holy Cross College have devoted their two free afternoons each week. At times, during the peak of the work, it was necessary to call on them for help even on extra days. At the period that the Vatican was sending telegrams giving the names and address­es of American prisoners in Italy, the task of preparing and mailing the hun­dreds of notifications was taken over by other seminarians of the College. The work of the Infox-mation Service was continued throughout the entire year, by the system of providing a gi'oup over short periods during the summer, with groups of three or four seminarians re­turning periodically to Washington from the summer house for two or three weeks at a time. 
With the fall of Italy and the libera­tion of other countries, the volume of work decreased, but was still such as to call for regular afternoons of work, especially when large shipments of mes­sages were received at the Delegation from the Vatican or from the Apostolic Nuncio in Switzerland, who was en­trusted with the task of gathering and sending out the messages collected in the northern part of Italy, which was no longer under Nazi domination. 
The work of the Information Service has brought the seminarians into con­tact with practically every country in the world. There are few countries from which or for which messages have not been received—^from a father in France to his missionary son on Gudal­canal or to someone on the island of Tahiti; messages have been handled from Persia and Madagascar and from the islands in the Caribbean. 
To date, the Washington office has dieared over 750,000 messages, including those sent to the Vatican and Switzer­land for distribution in the Americas or Australia. The daily average of mes­sages handled since the inception of the service is well over 850. The peak was reached in November, 1943, when the month's total was 57,000. The highest number serviced on any one afternoon 
—Reni Newspboto Service 

The group of Holy Cross seminarians at work at the Apostolic Delegation, with His Excellency, the Apostolic Delegate, and members of the Delegation staff. Left to right: Msgr. Carroll, secretary of the Delegation: Mr. Scullion. C.S.C-- Msgr. McSheo. secretary of the Delegation; Mr. Boyle. C.S.C: Mr. Duffy. C.S.C: Afr. Rehage. CS.C- Father McDonagh, C.S.C„- His Excellency, the Apostolic Delegate; Fr. Daly. O.P.. secretary of the Delegation (partially hidden behind His Excellency); Mr. Lochner, C.S.Cu and Father Heston, CS.C, secretary of the Delegation. 
was the total of 14,000 prepared for sub­mission to Censorship in one afternoon. 
His Excellency, the Apostolic Dele­gate, has on many occasions manifested his deep satisfaction with the cheerful, generous, and efficient work of the Holy Cross seminarians. He has taken many occasions to show this appreciation in the form of recognitions for the devoted work of the students, who dispose of an important portion of the work of the Delegation during war-time, but which could not possibly be handled by the regular personnel of the Delegation be­cause of the pressure of the regular office work. 
Last September, the appreciation of the Holy Father was expressed in a letter to the Delegate from the Acting Secretary of State of His Holiness, Mon­sigfnor Giovanni Battista Montini. At the same time. His Excellency received Silver Medals sent to him for the semin­arians at the express bidding of Pope Pius XII. The work of the seminarians, with photographs, has also been featured in the monthly periodical Ecclesia, pub­lished at the Vatican as an organ for diffusing knowledge and understanding of the war-relief work of the Holy See at the present time. 
The crowning expression of apprecia­tion by the Apostolic Delegate will be in June of this year, when His Excel­lency is to go to Notre Dame to ordain the 1945 deacons to the priesthood. Eev. Messrs. Duffy and Boyle, who have been with the Information Service since the beginning, are among this year's ordi­nandi, and His Excellency takes thia opportunity to express his gratituda to Holy Cross and Notre Dame for the generous services rendered him in the discharge of his manifold and taxing duties as representative of the Holy See in these difficult times. 
Teaming Up for God and Country 
In 1941, under the direction and editorship of Mr. Charles E. Sheedy, 
C. S. C, '33, then a seminarian at Holy Cross College, a program was drawn up to apply the principles of Catholic Action specifically to the military way of life. Father Sheedy and his colleagues set forth this program in a pamphlet en­titled We'reJiin the Service Now, of which 125,0(fb copies ,were distributeii by the NCCS. A copy of the pamphlet was included by the NCCS in the service­man's religious kit given to each Catho­lic member of the armed forces at the port of embarkation. In 1942 the pamphlet was revised and re-edited and an edition of 900,000 copies was pub­lished under the title Teaming up for God and Country. A further printing of 1,000,000 copies has been contem­plated, but is being delayed because of supply difficulties connected with the printiiig. 
Contact 
The booklet just mentioned provided the general principles of Catholic Action among the men of the armed forces. With a view to offering a regrular month­ly follow-up, and to indicate practical opportunities for the application of the general principles, another project was gotten under way in the form of a monthly publication called Contact. Its purpose is twofold: to enable the indi­vidual soldier or other member of the armed forces to develop a conscious Christian and Catholic spirit, and to show him to make this consciousness exert an influence on his surroundings. 
In the fall of 1942, under the direction of Father Theodore Hesburgh, C. S. C, '38, then a student at the College, and ^vith the collaboration of Mr. (now Father) David Fosselman, C. S. C, '39, Mr. Thomas O'Donnell, '41, and Mr. James Doll, C. S. C, '42, a policy was adopted and plans drawn up. The first edition of 750 copies appeared at Christ­mas time of that year. Under the co-editorship of the Catholic Action Lib­rary of Holy Cross College and Mr. Philip Wendel Shay, formerly connected with the Program Department of the NCCS, the circulation has rapidly in­creased from the first mimeographed edition of 750 copies to the latest month­ly issue of 85,000 copies. Editions have been exhausted within a few weeks after their appearance. Due to the great demand. Contact No. 8, on Chastity, has had to be reprinted four times. 
Contact is spread to Catholics in the armed forces through their local pastors, and with the co-operation of the Knights of Columbus, Daughters of Isabella, Catholic Daughters of America, and many high school and parochial groups. A blank page in each issue provides an opportunity for a short personal note from those who may wish to add this when sending the copy to friends. Chap­lains have been enthusiastic in their approval and generous with their suggestions. Parcels of Contact are sent out regularly from Washington through the Air Transport Command, and many of these are dropped by para­chute to the remote outposts of Burma, India, and China. At the present time, there is in preparation a series of five pamphlets offering a reprint of the best that have appeared in Contact in the two and a half years of its existence, The distribution of Contact is achieved through the Program Department-of the NCCS, where Daniel Culhane, '23, assisted by Mr. Martin Q. Moll in the business department, renders invaluable services. 


Letters to Women in the Services 
In an attempt to present for the Cath­olic women in the services the same matter made available to the men through Teaming up for God and Coun­try and Contact, Father Theodore Hes­burgh, C. S. C, in the summer of 1943, prepared a booklet entitled Letters to Service Wom,en. It details a basic plan for Catholic Action on the part of serv­icewomen, with applications to their particular problems. Letters to Service Women represents the. first publication devoted to the religious problems and the religious development of, Catholic women in the armed forces. The book­let was made available through the NCCS, and 250,000 copies have thus far been printed and distributed. 
Religious Medal 
A further project is afoot for the dis­tribution of a religious medal designed specifically for Catholic women in all branches of the services. It is to bear the image of Mary Immaculate. Fifty thousand are to be stamped as soon as priorities can be obtained for the neces­sary material. 
The Chaplains Digest 
Although it is not a project which originated in Holy Cross College, never­theless the Chaplains Digest deserves mention here, inasmuch as its present editor, the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, 
C. S. C, is now located at Holy Cross College. The Cliaplain's Digest was founded in June, 1942, by Father John Lynch, C. S. C, '25, then Prefect of Religion, as a service of the University of Notre Dame to the military chaplains. Its purpose was to provide the chaplains, who have few books at their disposal and little time to read them, with terse and pointed material, most of it written by themselves, for sermons and bulletins. The expense of the Digest is carried by the Prefect of Religion at Notre Dame, Father William T. Craddick, C. S. C, '30, aided by a monthly donation from the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus. 
Father Norman Johnson, C. S. C, '28, of the Department of English at Notre Dame, presently an Air Corps chaplain overseas, edited the Digest from June 1942 to March, 1943. It was then a 12-page' mimeographed bulletin, and the work of stitching, folding, and mailing was done by members of the Notre Dame 

Student Council for Decent Literature, under the leadership of Louis Kurtz, '43, now lieutenant in the Naval Reserve, succeeded by Jack Terry,' '45, now an army private overseas. 
Since April, 1943, the Digest has been edited by Father Charles Sheedy, C.S.C, who was, during 1942-1944, assistant prefect of religion at Notre Dame., and is now a graduate student in theology at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. Under his editor­ship the Digest passed from mimeo­graphed to printed form, and is at present an eight-page printed bulletin. It is mailed monthly from Notre Dame to all commissioned chaplains in the Army and Navy, at home and overseas, and to some auxiliary chaplains and other persons also. The Digest has re­ceived magnificent support from Bishop John O'Hara, C. S. C, '11, formerly Military Delegate, and now Bishop of Buffalo, New York, and from his secre­taries. Fathers Harry F. Stegman, 
C. S. C, '32, and Louis J. Thornton, 
C. S. C, '29. Without the help of the Military Ordinariate, it would have been impossible to keep up with the chaplains, whose frequent changes of address are about on a par with all other members of the armed forces. 
During the summer of 1943, when civilian life at Notre Dame became temporarily disrupted, the Student Com­mission for Decent Literature had to suspend operations. Since that time the business and circulation affairs of the Digest have been handled skillfully and generously by Holy Cross seminarians at Moreau Seminary, as part of their con­tribution to the spiritual side of the war effort. The work of the Digest in Moreau Seminary was under the direction of Mr. Joseph Hayden, C. S. C, '44, from July, 1943, to August, 1944. He was succeed­ed at Moreau by Mr. Glenn Boarman, 
C. S. C, who is the present associate editor and circulation manager. Mr. Hayden still assists in the editorial end at Holy Cross College. 
The response of the chaplains to the Digest has been more than enough to justify the effort of the University in furnishing this service. The editors estimate that they have heard at least once from every chaplain in the service, and the circulation department at Notre Dame handles about 100 changes of addresses monthly. 
The foregoing notes indicate the "pro­jects" which are carried on at Holy Cross College in connection with further­ing the spiritual side of the nation's war effort. Mention has not been made of 
individual contributions, such as the services rendered last year at Fort Bel­voir and this year at Fort Meyer by Fathers Archibald McDowell, C. S. C, '29, and Hesburgh, C. S. C. who are auxiliary chaplains, and who have given generously of their time to the spiritual wants of the soldiers at these military posts, through the preaching of missions, and regular daily and Sunday services. The seminarians, on several occasions, have gone to these same military posts to sing High Mass for special feasts. 
All this contribution to the war effort has been promoted under the watchful and generous direction of the superior of the CoUege, Father Christopher J. O'Toole, C. S. C. His understanding of the good that the seminarians can do for men in the armed forces, and of the contribution that such activities can make to the religious and priestly forma­tion of the men in the College has been in no small degree responsible for the inauguration and the continuation of the projects above mentioned. 
2u£4jMmvuune6. ^^h^ie^Jn^icllxH^ Pnj&(f/ieM^ 
Nothing in recent years has been as encouraging to the Alumni Office as the returns received to date on the Question­naire sent to those alumni for whom we had no service record. 
Outstanding in implication is the close harmony between what the Notre Dame alumnus hopes for the University in the future, and what the University plans for that same future. 
This will be borne out for those an­swering the Questionnaire in the article by Father O'Donnell in this issue. 
Another universal of significance in the returns is the appreciation by alumni of the need for more recognition by the outside world of the academic achieve­ments and stature of Notre Dame. The programs of the Alumni Association, the University publicity department, and the department of public relations are being coordinated and expanded con­stantly to this end. But it is necessary for the proper recog^nition of the Uni­versity that the entire alumni be aware and aggressive in spreading this type of knowledge. The Questionnaires in­dicate a general tendency in this vital direction. 
. One of the results in returns to date that is of great interest and significance is the general demand for a strong religi­ous identity in the University, in the curriculum, in the students, and in the 
V-E DAY AT NOTBE DAME 
In keeping with ita boditiona. Noir* 

Dame obseired V-E Day on May 8 by 
tuniing to God in thanksgiving and pe­
tition. Bev. John J. Cavonaugh. CS. C 
Tice-piesident oi the UniTaitfty. WOB 
the celebiant oi a solemn high Mass on 
the morning oi May 8. The eight and 
the nine o'clock dossea oi that mormng 
were dismissed. 
alumni. This takes many forms of detail sugfgestion. But basically it is the recognition of the need for a strong Catholic university; the need for a motivation in the curriculum springing from Christian principles; the need for developing in the student a religious character, whatever his course; and the need for an informed, active, relig;ious 
- alumni. 
There are other fundamentals reflected in the Questionnaires in which we are taking pride and encouragement. 
Generally, the University is credited with having offered the alumnus a sound, effective education and opportunity for development. 
And generally, the hope is-expressed that the same advantages, strengthened by planning, personnel and plant expan­sion, will be available to the sons of these alnmni who are in large numbers heading for their father's campus. 
Many interesting suggestions in detail will have to wait until more Question­naires are returned, before they-can be interpreted with any degree of effective­ness. 
But prominent in their implications 
are suggestions for more development 
of Alnmni Clubs as channels for the 
articulation of both University and 
alumni development, especially in propa­
gating the academic prestige of Notre 
Dame. Also in this direction is a strong 
tendency toward a- University publica­
tion which, in perhaps a quarterly re­
view form, will present the current. 
Catholic mind on matters of immediate 
concern in such fields as religion, econ­
omics, literature, social problems, poli­
tics, etc. 
If you have not sent in your Question­
naire, please fill it in. The return to 
date is definitely an outstanding g^oide^ 
to development It would gain im~ 
measurably from multiplication. 
By J. WALTEB KENNEDY, '34 

» » Publicity Director 



ATHLETICS 
BASEBALL 
At the time this went to press, Coach Jake Kline's baseball team had a 10 win, 7 lose, one tie record. The Irish had only two lettermen back from last year. Captain Frank Gilhooley, center fielder, and Jack Barrett, pitcher. 
Standouts on the team, in addition to Gilhooley, who has been leading the team in hitting most of the year with an aver­age around the .350 mark, are Billy Has-sett, shortstop and basketball captain-elect, who is second in hitting with a .340, and George Schneider, classy sec­ond baseman, who is one of the best de­fensive infielders in recent Notre Dame history. 
The record and schedule: 
April 21 — Notre Dame 11: Camp Attertury G 22 — Notre Dame 6 ; Wakeman Hospital 4 27 — Notre Dame 1; Michigan 6 28 — Notre Dame 4 : Michigan 12 

May 1 — Notre Dame 4 ; Northwestern 0 4 — Notre Dame 26 ; Western Michigan 10 5 — Notre Dame 2 : Western Michigan 2 6 — Notre Dame 7 ; Bunker Hill 2 11 — Notre Dame 3 ; Michigan 12 18 — Notre Dame 6; Western Michigan 13 19 — Notre Dame 3 ; Western Michigan 0 20 — Notre Dame 4 ; Bunker Hill 19 25 — Notre Dame 3 : Ohio State 1 2G —Notre Dame 11: Ohio State 8 
June 2 — Nfitre Dame 4 : Iowa Pre-Flight 5 7 — Notre Dame 1: Great Lakes 0 8 — Notre Dame 10: Northwestern 4 
10 — Notre Dame 5 : Iowa Pre-Flight 7 16 — Notre Dame : Purdue 17™ Notre Dame : Great Lakes 


TENNIS 
Coach Walter Langford's tennis team completed another fine season early in June, winning eight matches and losing one, that to Michigan by a 9-0 score. Be­cause of rain in Ann Arbor, the Michi­gan match had to be played on inside wooden courts, unfamiliar to the Notre Dame players. Outside, the match would doubtless have been close, probably 5-4 either way. 
Led by the great play of Captain Charley Samson, finalist in the NCAA tournament last year, the Irish swept aside all opposition except Michigan, to turn in one of the best records in college ranks. They will compete in the NCAA meet at Northwestern in late June. 
The record: 
Notre Dame 8 —Western Michigan 1 Notre Dame 0 —Michigan 9 Notre Dame 7% — Northwestern 1^^ Notre Dame 8 —Wisconsin 0 
Notre Dame 7 —Indiana 0 Notre Dame 9—^ Northwestern 0 Notre Dame 5 — Lawrence 1 Notre Dame 7 —Wayne 2 Notre Dame 5 —Purdue 3 

GOLF 
Notre Dame's golf team, traditionally one of the most successful of the spring sport teams, had another winning sea­son, losing three of nine matches played. Only one letterman. Acting Captain Tom Kennedy, was available from the 1944 team. The Irish will compete in the NCAA championships late in June at Columbus, 0., and hope to repeat their feat of 1944, when they won the NCAA title. 
The record: 
•Notre Dame 10'^ — Detroit 7% Notre Dame 6 — Northwestern 24 Notre Dame 5 — Minnesota 25 Notre D.-imo 18'y4— Wisconsin 8^4 Notre Dame 17>^ — Purdue 654 Notre Dame 5 — Michigan 19 Notre Dame 15'^ — Wayne 2'^ 


TRACK 
The track team, in and out most of the season, reached its peak in the Indiana state meet when it won handily from a classy field of collegiate competition. 
Joe Kelly, Akron, 0., Central CoHegi­ates discus champion, and one of the best in the country, and Bill TuUy, New 
Wins N.D. Monosram 
Frazier Thompson, Navy V-12 trainee from Philadelphia, is the first Negro ever to win a Notre Dame monogram. A clash man on the track team, Frazier was a consistent point-winner all through the 1945 season, despite the fact that he had never participated in track before coming to Notre Dame. He is enrolled in the pre-medical course. 
New Basketball Coach 
Elmer Ripley, New York City, is new durational head basketball coach at Notre Dame, succeeding Clem Crowe, '26, now head football coach at the Uni­versity of Iowa. During a 16-year career in basketball-coaching. Coach Ripley has been in charge of the sport at George­town, Yale and Columbia. He was one of the original Celtics, storied basketball team of an earlier generation. 
York, distance runner, paced the Irish to win in two dual meets during the campaign. Tully was a busy man during the spring, winning letters in both ten­nis and track. 
Dave Murphy, a Navy ROTC trainee, from Wilmette, 111., a sprinter, was the team captain. 
The record: 
Notre Dame 73 — Illinois Tech 42 
Notre Dame placed second in meet with 
Iowa Pre-Flight and Wisconsin 
State Meet won by Notre Dame 
Notre Dame S3>^ — Illinois 68% 
Notre Dame 67%—Wcst'n Michigan 54Vi 
Notre Dame placed fifth in the Central 
Collegiate meet 
SPRING FOOTBALL 
Four weeks of spring football drills terminated on May .6, when a regulation scrimmage between two picked squads took place on Cartier Field. The game was a thriller and reflected the hard work put in by the coaching staff. The Blues, captained by tackle Pete Berez­ney, defeated the Greens, captained by 
(Continued on Page 27) 

Bishop O'Hara Installed in Buffalo, May 8 
Archbishop Spellman Officiates at Brilliant Cere­mony in Presence of 5,000; Former Notre Dame Pres­ident Asks for Cooperation of Laity and Religious. 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., '11, former president of the Uni­versity, was on May 8, V-E Day, formal­ly installed as the eighth bishop of Buffalo, N. Y., by Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., LL.D. '35, archbishop of New York and metropolitan of the New York Province. 
The brilliant ceremony took place in St. Joseph's New Cathedral, Buffalo, in the presence of an assemblage of more than 5,000 which included numerous dig­nitaries of the Church, the state and the city, and innumerable Notre Dame alumni. 
Representing the Congregation of Holy Cross and the University at the installation were Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C, superior general. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, United States provincial. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, Rev. Wil­liam J. Doheny, C.S.C, Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, Rev. Michael A. For-an, C.S.C, and Rev. Louis J. Thornton, 
C.S.C. Thomas F. Byrne, president, with Mrs. Byrne, represented the Alumni As­sociation ofBcially. 
In his first message to Western New York's 500,000 Catholics, Bishop O'Hara, in his sermon at his installation, took as his text the quotation from the Sermon on the Mount: "No man can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will sustain the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and Mammon." 
"Today, by the grace of God and the favor of the Apostolic See," said Bishop O'Hara, in words familiar to Notre Dame men, "I am called upon to take up a task laid down by your beloved Bishop Duffy when God called him to his re­ward. It is a co-operative task of the highest order. It means co-operating with the grace of God working out our salvation. It means the co-operation of all: the laity and religious, the priests and the bishops, among ourselves and with God, to the end that every individu­al soul in this diocese will be directed to God as its last end. 
"Your demonstration of loyalty and zeal moves me deeply. It would be hard to approach this task without a sense of unworthiness. We cannot meditate long on the greatness of God without experi­encing a sense of devastation; yet medi­tation on God's greatness leads quickly to an appreciation of His goodness. His mercy and His love, and we realize with St. Aug^ustine that 'to him who does what in him lies, God does not deny grace.' And in that assurance mortal man finds confidence: 'God chooses the weak things of the world to confound the strong.'" 
Bishop OUd a oi his insiallaiion in BuHoIo on May 8 

Archbishop Spellman in his remarks paid high honor to Bishop O'Hara as a "merciful shepherd and prudent prophet." 
"Fortunate indeed are you priests and people," said the installing prelate, "for you will find him a noble priest, gifted by nature with keen intelligence, virile character and gracious personality. 
"You will learn to love him as he leads you and to revere him as he serves you. Yiu will have the same affection and ad­miration for him as do his brothers in religion of • the University of Notre Dame, where for 30 years as student, professor and president he lived and taught with courage." 
Previously, Rt. Rev. Luke F. Sharkey, pastor of St. Vincent de Paul Church and a member of the Diocesan Board of Consultors, paid tribute to Bishop O'Hara "as a shepherd of souls after the heart of Christ Himself." 
A clerical luncheon in the Hotel Stat­ler, Buffalo, followed the installation. Guests of honor were Archbishop Spell­man, Bishop O'Hara and Host Rev. Joseph A. Burke, auxiliary bishop of Buffalo and celebrant of the solemn pon­tifical installation Mass. In attendance at the luncheon were the 34 visiting archbishops and bishops who, with Bish­op O'Hara and Bishop Burke, comprised the largest gathering of Catholic hier­archy in Buffalo's history. Toastmaster at the Inncheon was Rt. Rev. Msgr. John 
J. Nash, one of the two vicar generals of the diocese; Bishop Burke is the other. Speakers included Archbishop Spellman, Most Rev. Thomas C. HoUoy, bishop of Brooklyn, and Bishop O'Hara. 
At another luncheon following the in­stallation, Notre Dame alumni, from Buffalo and Rochester especially, gath­ered. Chief speaker here was Father Hugh O'Donnell, president, who took time from his busy day—and Bishop O'Hara's luncheon—^to attend for a short time. 
Bom May 1, 1888, in Ann Arbor, Mich., Bishop O'Hara spent much of his youth in South America, where his fa­ther was a member of the United States consular service. Graduated from Notre Dame in 1911, he shortly afterward joined the Congregation of Holy Cross and was ordained to the priesthood on Sept. 9, 1916, in Indianapolis. In 1917, Father O'Hara became prefect of reli­gion in the University, to begin the task of administering to the religious needs of a rapidly-expanding student body. His self-sacrificing efforts in this i>ost and the magnificent results that he achieved are too well known to all Notre Dame men to need emphasis here. 
Keenly interested in studies of com­merce and possessed, from his South American days, of a deep appreciation of relationships with foreign countries. Father O'Hara was instrumental in es­
(Gontinned on Pase 43) 


For God, Country, Notre Dome 
9n Qlxmf. ^'Oe^dadiUi^ 
The late President Boosevelt receiving the honorary Doctor of Lows degree at Notre Dame on Dec 9. 1935. from Bev. John F. OUara. CS. C then pre^dent of the Univetsity. now bishop of Butfolo. 
With all the nation, Kotre Dame mourned the death, on April 12, 1945, of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, LL.D. '35, president of the United States. 
Notre Dame has added reason to re­member President Roosevelt. On Dec. 9, 1935, he came to the campus to receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, and his coming marked one of the peaks in Notre Dame history. For on that day the University greeted not only the Prraident, but also the new Common­wealth of the Philippines, and through Carlos P.. Romulo, thi chief speaker of the occasion, extended felicitations to the late President Manuel Quezon and his people. 
Mindful of President Roosevelt's mem­
bership in the Notre Dame family, and 
especially of the President's final words 
in his address here on Dec. 9,1935 ("... 
I trust that I may be in your prayers") 
the University conducted a memorial 
service for him on April 15 at the Me­
morial Door of Sacred Heart Church. 
Capt. J. Richard Barry, USN, com­
manding all the naval units on the cam­
pus, spoke in honor of President Roose­velt as the commander-in-chief of the nation's armed forces, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, president, paid trib­ute to the stricken statesman and leader. Rev. William T. Craddick, CS.C, pre­fect of religion, offered prayers for the repose of President Roosevelt's soul and for the divine guidance of his successor. President Harry S. Truman. 
Capt. Maurice J. McEUigott, '26, Ev­anston, 111., died April 24 at the Army Air Field in Tucson, Ariz., as the result of an illness incurred while on active duty in the Pacific area. His wife, Ve­ronica, and small son, Maurice, living in Lynn, Mass., survive him, as well as three sisters and three brothers. 
Maurice enlisted in the Air Corps in 1942 after spending some time in the British Isles as civilian surgeon with two large construction companies. He was conunissioned a captain and as­sigrned to various camps in this country. Impatient with the lack of opportunity to perform surgery he requested over­seas duty. He made two trips to the Pa­cific, and it was on the second that he was compelled to turn to a hospital him­self. He was evacuated to San Francisco early in 1944 and from then until his death he was not out of an Array hospi­tal for a period of more than two weeks. 
Hurice McEHisott 
Maurice received his M.D. from Rush Medical School in the University of Chi­cago in 1935. He had done special work in science at Harvard following his gra­duation from Notre Dame in 1926. 
Major Joseph W. Whelan, '27, Grant-wood, N. J., died in a Denver hospital after a long illness. He became ill while serving with the Army in North Africa and was returned to this country about a year ago. 

Ck>inniissioned a captain in the Judge Advocate General's Department, Joe en­tered service in September, 1942. He attended the JAG School at the Univer­sity of Michigan and later served in Washingrf»n.He'went overseas in Janu­ary, 1943, and was promoted to the rank of major in April, 1944. 
Joe was associated with a New York law firm, having jinished in law at Har­vard in 1930. He is survived by two brothers, James F., '26, and Major Vin­cent M., '32, and two sisters. 
Sgt. Joseph A. Mariano, Jr., '29, New Eochelle, N. Y., was killed in action in the Okinawa area on March 29 while fighting with the 77th division. Joe's father, three brothers and three sisters survive him. 
With the 77th ever since he entered the Army in March, 1942, Joe partici­pated in the battles of Guam and Ormoc. 
Joe Mariano Gcom Allindum 

George E. Allingham, '33, New York City, American Red Cross field director, was killed by mortar fire in the Philip­pines April 11. He is survived by his wife, Blanche. 
George had served with the Red Cross since 1943. Earlier, he had been speech instructor in the College of the City of New York, and chairman of the Depart­ment of Speech and Drama at Fordham University. He received his M.A. in 1938 from Columbia University Teach­ers College. 
Major Fred L. Morria, '35, Mexico, Mo., died March 28 of wounds sustained in action two days earlier in Germany. Surviving him are his wife, Emilee, and four-months-old daughter, Kathleen Em­ily, and his parents, sister, and brother, Mize, '40. 
Fred was provost marshal of the 79th division of the Ninth Army and had been in action for nine months with only two weeks' rest. He crossed the channel on D-Day plus six. First with the Seventh Army he transferred to the Ninth. The 79th division was one of two which spearheaded the crossing of the Rhine. 
Fred Morris Loa Bcauih 

1st Lt. Louis J. Bemisli, '39, Roch­ester, N. Y., previously reported missing in action, is now officially known-to have been killed in action Oct. 14, 1944, in a crash near Fauling, Northern China. Lou was the flight-engineer on a B-29 sent to India in April, 1944, a member of the 20th bomber command, the first group sent to the India-China theater. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Lou was employed by Eastmaii Kodak Company until he entered the service in February, 1941, with the 209th Army anti-aircraft division. He later transferred to the Air Corps and received his commission at Chanute Field, 111. 
Lou was posthumously awarded the Air Medal. He is survived by his wife> Elizabeth Crowley Bemish, his parents and one sister. 
Sgt. Robert J. O'Toole, '39, Pitts­

burgh, Pa., youngest of the seven ' O'Toole brothers graduated from Notre Dame and one of the five O'Toole broth­ers serving in the armeil forces, died on March 9, five days after he was wounded in Germany. He was combat engineer with the 84th infantry division of the 
Ninth Army. 
JackHui>ky Bob OTooIe 

Bob is survived by his parents, three sisters and these six brothers: Judgfe James, '21, Major Charles, '23, Sgt. John, '25, Dr. Richard, '30, Sgt William, '34, and Major Lawrence, '36. 
Capt. John F. Rogers, '40, Belleville, 

N. J., missing in the Pacific since Jan. 
25,1944, is now declared by the War De­partment to be "presumably dead." 
Lt. John B. MnTphy, '41, Emigrant, Mont., was killed in action Nov. 11,1944, while on a mission in the Italian theater .of operations. Jack was serving as pilot of an A-20^fighter bomber with the 12th Air Force and had completed 19 mis­
sions. 
Surviving him are his widow, Theo­

dora, and daughter, Patricia Aim, and 
his mother and his brother^ jam ^ '43. 
Jack participated in ti>« ^inva«on of 

southern.France and was dted fm land­
ing an injured plane and leading a bat­
tered formation to safety. Before enlist­
ing in the AAF in March, 1943, he was 
engaged in the operation of the Ox Yoke, 
ranch, Emigrrant. 
Boh SMMt 
Capt. Robert Sugnet, '41, Buffalo, 

N. Y., reported missing June 12,1944, is now officially believed to have been killed in action in the vicinity of GuadalcanaL 
Upon graduation from Notre Dame, Bob was commissioned a second lieuten­ant and went to England with 34 other young graduates of U.S. universities to study electronics and the then closely guarded radar. While in England, Bob was given the rank of observer in the' RAF. 
Bob returned to this country after Pearl Harbsr and, after completion of an inspection tour of. the East Coast, was appointed to a post at Orlando, Fla. In November, 1942, he was promoted to first lieutenant and appointed chief in­structor of radar and electronics in Hawaii and Pacific area. 
in 1943 Bob was awarded the Air Medal and Oak Leaf Cluster and pro­moted to captain. 
Major Cletos N. Schommer, St. Paul, Minn., a graduate student in 1938-40, was killed in action on Luzon April 4. He was intelligence officer with the 187th Paraglider infantry regiment. Eleventh Airborne division. Surviving are his wif^ Winifred, and two sons, Nicholas, two, and Thomas, nine months, his mother and three brothers. 
Clete received the Silver Star for lead­ing a group of Philippine Army troops in a daring attack which resulted in the capture of a vital enemy base in south-em Liizon. He entered the Army in June, 1941, and went overseas in May, 1944, spent six months in New Guinea, and then took part in the Leyte and Luzon campaigns. 
Gcorffe Mnrphsr Galand Funk 
Lt. George E. Murphy, '43, South 
Bend, captain of the 1942 football team, was killed on Okinawa on May 15 while fighting with the Sixth Marine division. 
Commissioned in June, 1943, at Parris Island, S. C, George was stationed at Parris Island as an instructor until July, 1944, when he was transferred to the West Coast. He went overseas on July 29, the day after his daughter was born in South Bend, and continued his train­ing at Pacific bases. 
Graduated from Central High School in South Bend, George "made the team" at right end in his sophomore year, 1940, and continued through three years of spectacular competition. He was the first South Bend boy in 33 years to be elected captain of a Notre Dame football team. 
Surviving George are his wife, the former Mary Miles of South Bend, his parents, a sister and a brother, John, '38, Endicott, N. Y., also a former foot­ball player at Notre Dame. • 
Pfc. Galana V. Funk, Jr., '44, Mun­
cie, Ind., previously reported missing in action, was killed on the Belgian front on Dec. 24, 1944, in the Battle of the Bulge. He is survived by his parents, his aunt, uncle and grandmother. 

Galand was inducted May, 1943, and received his basic training at Camp Wol­ters, Texas. Accepted in the Air Corps, he was transferred to Keesler Field, Miss., and thence to the University of Florida. When the Air Corps training was cancelled for so many, he was sent to the infantry at Camp Shelby, Miss., and later to Camp Breckenridge, Ky. In October, 1944, he went overseas with the 75th Division. 
GcoFKC Birminsliani Jim Ankenbmdc 
Em. John T. BatUile, '44, Memphis, Tenn., was killed in action in the Pacific. He is survived by his mother, four brothers and two sisters. 
After his graduation from Notre Dame, John went to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Md. He left for overseas duty last October and was as­signed to an aircraft carrier. 
Cpl. John J. McGinnis, Jr., ex. '44, 
Chicago, was killed on Mindanao on May 3 while fighting with the 24th (Ranger) division. He had recently been cited for heroism in leading his men through a mine field to rescue American soldiers who had been trapped by the Japs. 
John, an end on the 1941-42 football teams, was a senior at Notre Dame when he entered the Ai-my in May, 1943. He had been overseas a year. He is survived by his parents and two sisters. 
1st Lt. Michael H. Brady, ex. '45, 
Payne, O., previously reported missing in action over Belgium, was killed Feb­ruary 1. Michael, awarded the Air Med­al, Presidential Unit Citation and sev­eral Oak Leaf Clusters, is survived by his parents, a brother, grandmother and great-grandmother. 
On March 2, 1943, Michael enlisted in the AAF, receiving his commission in January, 1944. He was assigned to a troop carrier command as navigator, leaving for overseas duty in February, 1944. In October, 1944, he was advanced to the rank of first lieutenant. He took part in the Normandy invasion, the in­vasion of southern France, and of Hol­land, and was shot down near Bastogne during the von Runsted drive, Dec. 27, 1944. 
Pvt. James R. Ankenbruck, ex. '46, 

Ft. Wayne, Ind., was killed in action in Germany on Dec. 2, 1944. He is survived by his parents, two sisters, three broth­ers and grandmother. All of the brothers (of whom John, formerly a V-12 student at Notre Dame, is one) are in the armed forces. 
Jim entered the service in May, 1943, and was sent to Camp Wolters, Texas, in the infantry, and later to the ASTP at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore. He had further training at Camp Claiborne, La., before he was sent to England in Octo­ber, 1944, and, in November, to the Con­tinent with the Ninth Army. 
Pfc George G. Birmingham, ex. '46, 

Sioux City, la., was killed in action on Iwo Jima, March 5. As a member of the Fifth Marine division, he participated in the original landing on that island, Feb. 19, and took part in the fiercest of the fighting on the beaches. 
George, an all-state football and bas­ketball player in high school, entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1942 and played freshman football. Soon after ar­riving he enlisted in the Marines as a V-12 student. In 1943 he left for the Ma­rine base at San Diego, going to Hawaii in 1944. 
George is survived by his parents, three sisters and four brothers. Three brothers and a sister are in service. 
1st Lt. Robert W. Caley, ex. '46, Chi­cago, was killed in action in France Feb­ruary 1 by mortar fire while leading his men into enemy territory. He is sur­vived by his parents and his sister. 
Robert C»fcy Pat Lambert 

Bob had been overseas nearly two years and had seen extensive action in Africa, Sicily, Italy and France. He was severely wounded at Anzio but rejoined his outfit in three months. For his brav­ery there Bob was awarded the Silver Star. He later participated wt h the Fifth Army in most of the major Ital­ian battles, including Volturno, Cassino and Rome. 
Bob was transferred to General Patch's Seventh Army and on Aug. 15 made the landing in southern France, to see almost continuous action again. Last September he was promoted to a first lieutenancy and in October was made ex­ecutive officer of his company. At the time of his death he was, at the age of 20, acting commander of his company. He had received a Presidential citation and the Purple Heart in addition to the Silver Star. 
Lt. Edward L. Kinn, ex. '46, Fostoria, O., was killed in action in Germany, April 18. Ed was wounded in the Aachen drive in Germany on Oct. 30, 1944, but returned to active service in March, 1945. He was awarded the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star and the Combat Infan­tryman's Badge. 
After attending Notre Dame for a year, Ed entered the Army in May, 1943, and arrived in England in April, 1944. 
Lt. Patrick J. Lambert, ex. '46, Argo, 111., was killed in action Dec. 6 in the Netherlands East Indies. Pat's brother, Michael, '41, is a lieutenant in the Navy. 
Pat entered the service in February, 1943, and was commissioned a second lieutenant in the AAF in January, 1944. He was a fighter pilot, flying the Army's P-47 Thunderbolts. April, 1944, found him in the southwest Pacific, where he saw considerable action with the Army's 340th fighter squadron. 
Ens. Daryl G. Huish, Redlands, Calif., gave his life in action at Iwo Jima on 
Darrl HaUh Wayne Johnston 

Feb. 17 when his ship was sunk as a re­sult of enemy fire. He had been a V-12 student at Notre Dame, following earlier civilian training at Riverside Junior Col­lege in California. 
After leaving Notre Dame, Daryl went to Asbury Park, N. J., for pre-midship­man training and was there until May, 1944. He was commissioned at Abbott Hall, Northwestern University, Chicago, in September, 1944, and left for service in the Pacific in October. 
Daryl is survived by his parents, two sisters, and two brothers. One brother is in the Army. 
Arnold McGrath Joe Sekneder 

Cpl. Wayne H. - (Rusty) Johnston, USMC, Dallas, Texas, was killed in ac­tion on April 15 on Okinawa. He is sur­vived by his parents, two brothers and one sister. 
Wayne entered Notre Dame in July, 1943, a trainee in the Marine V-12 pro­gram. An outstanding football player in high school^ and at Marquette Univer­sity, he did not participate in football at Notre Dame. 
The ALUMNUS has so far received only incomplete information regarding the follo\ving Notre Dame men who died in the service of their country: John J. Burke, ex. '38, River Forest, 111., killed in action Jan. 30, 1944; Joseph P. Cag­ney, ex. '46, Oak Park, 111., died Oct. 30, 1944, of wounds received on Leyte; P»t. Robert J. Callahan, ex. '46, River For­est, m., of the Sixth Marine division, killed in action on April 6, 1945, on Oki­nawa; Cpl. Martin T. Callaghan, ex. '47, Chicago, (brother of Ens. Cojme Calla­ghan, '43), killed in action in Germany; Raymond E. Cronin, ex. '47, Boston, died Jan. 21, 1945, from wounds suf­fered at Bastogne on Dec. 21, 1944. 
Deaf As Already Reported 
(In its previous issues the ALUMNUS was able to print only incomplete no­tices of the death in the armed forces of the follou'ing Notre Dame men. More in­formation about these men now being available, we are presenting it here. —Eds.) 
Lt. Arnold J. McGratfa, '22, Chicago, was killed in action on Guadalcanal on Jan. 29. A recreation field on the island has been named McGrath Field in Ar­nold's memory because he was a recrea­tion director there. 
Capt. Joseph R. Schroeder, '31, Min­neapolis, died on March 31 at Patterson Field, 0., after an illness of two months. He is survived by his father and his sis­ter, Ramona Schroeder Murphy, a grad­uate of St. Mary's, Notre Dame. 
Joe for several years was associated in business with his father who was president of the Petroleum Service Co. In 1936 he became Minnesota represen­tative for the American Petroleum In­stitute and continued in that, capacity until he joined the AAF in June, 1942, and was made public relations officer at the Lockboume Air Base, Columbus, O. Fracturing his ankle late in 1944, Joe was confined to a hospital and there he developed the asthma and heart condi­tion which were responsible for his death. 
Consistently one of the most active and devoted members of the Twin Cities Notre Dame Club, Joe had served as its president. Several club members were pallbarers at his funeral, April 6. 
PUI DiCract* Gearce Ball 

Capt. George W. Ball, '36, Caledonia, 
N. Y., died of wounds received in battle in Germany on March 2. George was with the 309th Infantry, 78th (Light­ning) division. He commanded a head­quarters company and had received the Bronze Star and the Combat Infantry­man's badge. 
Besides his parents and his wife, Es­ther, George leaves a daughter, Mary Kathryn, one sister, a lieutenant, junior grrade, in the Navy, and his grandfather. 
After his graduation from Notre Dame, George was with the Niagara Lockport and Ontario Power Co., until he entered the Army on April 9, 1941. He was commissioned a second lieuten­ant at Fort Benning, Ga., in July, 1942, was promoted to first lieutenant in Jan-nary, 1943, and earned a captaincy'the following December. He had been ovei> seas since September, 1944. 
Lt. (jg) Philip P. DiCrocco, USNR, '39, Staten Island, N. Y., was killed in action in the Pacific area on June 18, 1944. Phil, who had been commissioned an ensig:n April 3,1942, was assigned to cruiser duty and he had been in at least 
Babo Fudicr Leo HUlebrand 
five major battles. He is survived by his parents, his grandmother and an aunt. . 
After receiving his A.B. from Notre Dame, Phil received his bachelor of laws degree from Catholic University, Wash­ington, D. C. He planned to enter-the law office of his aunt on Staten Island. 
Capt. Leo S. Hillebrand, Jr., USMC, '41, Toledo, 0., was killed in action on Feb. 20 with the 4th Marine Division on Iwo Jima. Leo is survived by his wife, Vivian, and their daughter, Nancy Lee, and by his parents, brother and sister. His brother, Lt. (jg) Joseph R. Hille­brand, '43, is on patrol duty with the navy in the North Atlantic. 
Leo was commissioned a second lieu­tenant at Quantico, Va., April, 1942, and was made a captain in November, 1943, at Camp Pendleton, LaJoUa, Calif. Over­seas 15 months, he fought on Saipan, the Harshalls and the Marianas. 
Before entering the service, Leo was employed by The A. Bentley & Sons Co., of which his father is vice-president and treasurer. 
L L Robert A. (Bobo) Fischer, '43, Wauwatosa, Wis., gave his life in action on Nov. 17, 1944, over Italy. Leading his squadron of Mustang fighter planes, B«bo climbed through a layer of cloud. The flight split up and Bobo's plane and another are believed to have collid­ed. He bailed out and was killed by hit­ting the out-of-control airplane. 
1st Lt. George M. O'Connor, ex. '43, Wheaton, III., was killed in action on the west coast of Leyte on Dec. 13. When his organization was in an attack, George, with his company commander and one enlisted man, went forward to a new po­sition. They had passed over the top of a ridge when they came undec direct artillery fire. Attempting to return to the cover of the ridge, a shell hit the enlisted man. George was very close and the concussion killed him. 
George's bravery was cited in letters from Gen- Douglas MacArthur, Brig. Cicn. Joseph L. Ready and his company commander, all written after his death. 
Georce O'Cenner 
He had been awarded both the Bronze Star and the Silver Star. 
Sticking "with the ship" to the last in order to save the lives of his brother crew members, Lt John K. Wolff, ex. '44, Raleigh, N. C, a pilot, died in a crash on Dec. 18 in Yugoslavia. John was a student at Notre Dame when he enlisted in the AAF in February, 1943. He received his wings and commission at Moody Field, Valdosta, Ga., in March, 1944. His training as B-24 pilot was at Casper, Wyo., and he was sent overseas in October. He was stationed in Italy. At his death he had completed nearly 50 missions. 
Surviving are his parents, three sis­ters, three brothers and his grandfather. 
John WolS 
Sgt. Patrick R. Matchke, '44, Sellers-ville. Pa., was killed in action in Ger­many on Feb. 12. 
In his junior year at Notre Dame, Pat enlisted in the Army Reserve Corps, and at the termination of the first semester of his senior year was called to active service. He was assigned to Camp Fan­nin, Texas, and, after basic training, passed the examinations for the AAF. He was then sent to Momingside Col­lege in Sioux City, la., where he com­pleted three months training; in April, 1943, due to "an over-expansion in the Air Corps, he was returned to the infan­try at Camp McCoy, Wis. Here he re­mained until December, 1944, when he was sent overseas. It is probable that Pat saw little more than a week of ac­tual combat. 
2nd Lt. John Kiniman, ex. '45, Eau Claire, Wis., fighter pilot, was killed in action on Feb. 19. John was flying wing­man on a routine two-ship patrol over Negros Island in the Philippines. He and his flight leader were making in-
j«lui Kinwifn Dewey- Bbnn 
spections of Japanese airdromes on the island and had been up for about two hours when John's right engine burst into flames. John was ordered to bail out, became tangled and cleared himself only at 100 feet, when his chute streamed behind him but did not have time to open. 
CpL Dewey C. Mann, ex. '45, South Bend, was killed in action March 8 (not March 5 as previously reported) while serving with the Third Army in Ger­many.' His division, the tenth armored, was highly commended for the part it played in the capture of the city of Metz. The members of the division also figured prominently in the heroic stand at Bas­togne, battling for the city until the ar­rival of the 101st airborne division. 
Dewey, survived by his parents, broth­er and sister, was awarded the Purple Heart. 
Pfc Harry J. Osborne, Jr., ex. '45, Elgin, 111., was killed in action in Ger­many March 10. He was serving in the First Army. The surviving family in­clude his parents and a younger brother. 

The news of Harry's death came less than a month after the announcement that he had been awarded the Bronze Star for heroism in combat while on 'daylight reconnaissance patrol for the 309th regiment of the Lightning Divi­sion. He, with three companions, had succeeded in advancing 400 yards be­yond the American front lines to lo­cate enemy installations, communication trenches and the fields of fire of enemy 
automatic weapons. 

Pvt. James H. Gillis, ex. '46, Kane, Pa., son of Frank H. Gillis, '22, was killed in action Nov. 23 in Germany. He 
Jim GiUia Ted Doiosll 

was posthumously awarded the Silver Star for gallantry in action. When heavy fire from German pillboxes had halted the advance of his First Army company, Jim, together with another soldier, vol­untarily led a platoon in an attack on the fortifications, resulting in the cap­ture of the positions and 56 prisoners. During this action he was killed. 
Jim is survived by his parents and sister and his grandfather. 
P»t. Theodore J. Dorotk, ex. '48, Clif­ton Heights, Pa., was killed in action in Germany in February. He is survived by his parents, his sister and a brother in the service. 
Ted, an outstanding high school ath­lete, entered Notre Dame in the spring of 1944 but was recalled by his home draft board in July. He was 18 years old when he entered the Army in August. 

Missing in Action 
Cpl. Andries A. Curtin, '34, Chesire, Mass., who served as an Alaskan scout for the Army, disappeared while blaz­ing a trail between the Colville and Ik­pikpuk rivers far above the Arctic circle. 
CapL Mmrtin S. McGinnM, '39, Mem­phis, has been missing since Jan. 13. Marty, pilot of a B-17 bomber, left Molesworth, England, to bomb a bridge over the Rhine between Mannheim and Ludwigshaven. After his bombardier re­leased the bombs, the plane left the for­mation, and was seen to do down (not aflame nor in a spiral drop, but rather in a coast) near Mannheim. 
Lt. Carroll A. Michelt, '40, South Bend,, has been missing since March 3. Overseas since December, 1944, he served as a bombardier on a B-24. His wife and small son live in South Bend. 
Cpl. John C. Haffner. '41, Oak Park, 111., is missing in action since April 27, 1945, in Italy. An aerial gunner with the 15th AAF, John was awarded the Air Medal. 
Lt. (jg) Francis E. Metzgar, '41, Se­attle, Wash., was reported missing when his destroyer went down near Okinawa. 
T/Sgt. Edward V. AnUi, AAF, ex. '46, Benton Harbor, Mich., has been missing in action over Germany since Oct. 6, 1944. 
S/Sgt. James D. Brogger, AAF, ex. '46, Grand Rapids, Mich., is missing in Austria since Feb. 27, 1945. Jim entered the Army in February, 1943, and went overseas in October, 1944. He was a nose gunner on a-B-24 in the 15th air force, based in Italy. 
Pfc. Loren E. Bnllock, ex. '47, Osce­ola, Ind., with the Third Army, has been missing since May 1, in Germany. He entered the Army on Oct 15, 1943, and went overseas in August, 1944. 
Prisoners of War 
Sgt. Edward F. Rorke, ex. '39, New York City, previously reported missing in action, is a Japanese prisoner of war. 



Aoi^ Sba^fte &ooJu 
Frank Leahy and The Fighting Irian, 
The Story of Notre Dame Football, 
by Arch Ward, '19. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. ?2.75. 

I finally managed to round up a lend­ing library copy of the second edition of Arch's book. And I must say that it should be required reading for all Notre Dame men. 
In addition to the comprehensive biography of the young man about whom it revolves, and about whom the foot­ball fortunes of Notre Dame seem likely to revolve for some years, the author has drawn on almost 30 years of close per­sonal contact with Notre Dame football generally, and with its historical sources, to include all of the highlights and many of the lesser memorabilia. 
Under the capable hands of an ex­perienced writer and editor, the book is compact in one sense and yet detailed in establishing a good perspective for football's place on the Notre Dame cam­pus, and Notre Dame's place in the foot­ball sun. And Frank Leahy emerges less as the miracle subject to the sus­picions of the unbelievers, and more as 
the man whose leadership comes &oin 
the older formula for genius—10 per 
cent inspiration, and 90 per cent per­
spiration. 
• * * 

Not a book, but a very interest­ing article and iiook material, is 0%ir Great Stone Fleet, an arUele «• the June American Magazine, describ­ing the military miracle of the concrete ships, largely engineered by Carlos Tavares, C.E., '27, one-time captain of the Notre Dame tennis team, and an engineer of international reputation. According to the article, Carlos returned' to Shanghai, China, his birthplace, after graduation. He was building a $7,500,­COO bridge in Hangchow when the Japs invaded China. He completed five months work in 65 days and sailed for America. He replaced pilingrs under the Ford plant in San Pedro without disturbing the. war-plant's production schedule, and raised the half-mile Bridge of the Gods 45 feet to adjust the higher water from the Bonneville Dam. From there he moved into the new and hitherto secret work on the concrete ships that have been a vital part of the war in the Pacific. It*s well worth reading and a tribute: to Tavares which the Notre Dame College of Engineering shares: 
• * * « . 

Paul H. Martin, '09, recently presoited the University library a very rare panir phlet of two- articles entitled A Curious Danee Round a Curious Tree. It te s first edition, printed in 1860 and con­servatively catalogued as "seaice." 
Mr. Martin, now editor of the Gnmr berlaad (Md.) Times, is a eolleetof of Dickens' first editions and rare books on the theatre. Both o f these collections will eventually come to Notre Dame. His recent g;ift is a pamphlet-form reprint of two solicitous articles by Dictois about St. Luke's Hospital for the In­sane. 
THE ADORATION CHAPEL 
The Adoraliea ChopeL ptopeaad as 

the PniTenity's War MtmotM for Kaiie 
Dome men of Wedd War 0. has eK­
eilad widaqvaod interest since a pie­
tme el it was poBled en the eover el 
the Apol AUDOIDS. 
The Stalieiis of the Oaas far the r*6-, posed diopel hare oheody bees pledged te Rer. Kij^ ODeoadL CS.C, pcesidenL by lbs. MdHhew; Ai; Byrne. New Todc KStf. in meaiecy e< her aoo. the late A C Matthew' A. Byiae. '42, IdUad in an air crash en Dee. 19L 1942. 
Any iniiuifles regoiding the fhtipel uutf be dbaded either te FdttK. ODeonril or te the Ahand Office.­


Third Annual Alumni Fund 
Contributors, March I to May I, 1945 

As in the previous Alumni Funds, the alumni contributions represent alumni gifts direct to the University* through the Alomni Association, or through the Director of FabUc Relations. 
To 1904 RufEns. Charles E.. "87  S  25.00  1925 Baker. Edward J.  10.00  1931 Fehlig. Paul T.  $  25.00  Loritsch, John A. _ Trcacy, Thomas J. ,  5.00 10.00  
Morrison. Vincent E.. '89  1.00  O'Neil. Daniel J.  5.00  Hausmann, Julius H.  2.00  
Flynn, Dr. James A., '93 50.00 FarabauBh, Gallitzen A.. '04 1,000.00 $1,076.00 Total No. Contrib.  Anon>-mous Showel, John L. Skelley. Norbert F. Traynor, John P. —  25.00 25.00 20.00 5.00  Miltner. Charles H. 25.00 Monahan. Thoams F., Jr. 10.00 Powers, Major Charles P., Jr. 10.00 $ 72.00  Total $123.00 No. in Class 443  $ 60.00 No. Contrib. 11 % Contrib. .025  
;1.226 00  6  S  90.00  Total  No.Contiik.  
No. inCIuMi  %  Contrib.  Total  No. Contrib.  S87.50  7  1937  
263  .023  $345.00  16  No. in Class  % Contrib.  Besancency, Lt. Girard .  10.00  
No. in Class  % Contrib.  426  .016  Dillon, Thomas E;  5.00  
1910  289  .055  Hoyt, L t  Edward J.  _  2.00  
Moriarty, Rev. MichaelSchmitt, William C.   L.  1926  1932 Asman, Major Henry B. .  50.00  Stroker. L t  Cyril F.  5.00 $ 22.00  
Yawman. Victor G.  _$1.000  Condon, Leonard W.  500.00  Total  No. Contrib.  
Total $5.050 00 No.inClu s 27  % Contrib. .074  Total $1,130.00 No. in Class 326  No. Contrib. 8 % Contrib. .025  Dewey. Robert.E Gciger, Capt. Raymond A. _ Hurley, Neil C., Jr. O'Rourke, Alphonse F. Sullivan. Lt. Justin D.  10.00 10 00 10.00 5.00 3.00  $92.00 No. in Class 472 1938  11 % Contrib. .023  
1911 Dclana, EdwardTotal $388.00 No. in Claw 67   K.  S 10.00 No. Contrib. 4 9o Contrib. .060  1927 Fury, L. William _ O'Neill, Charles A. , Total  10.00 5.00 $ 15.00 No. Contrib.  Total $633 00 No. in Class -­532  % 588.00 No. Contrib. 11 % Contrib. .021  Belanger, Sg t George O. Callahan. L t Thomas H. . Kaveny, William F. Monacelli, Walter J. Quinlan. L t Thomas F. _ Solon. Faustin J., Jr.  2.00 5.00 1.00 50.00 25.00 S.OO  
1912 Duncan. Walter Total $1,000.00 No. inCIaia 44  Sl.000.00 No. Contrib. 1 % Contrib. .023  S115.00 No. in Class 318 1928 Daly, J. Harvey  3 9o Contrib. .009 25.00  1933 Aug. Lt. George E. Dorris. Thomas B. . Martin. W. Donald .  2.00 5.00 25.00 $ 32.00  Total $329.00 No. in Class 563  $ 88.00 No. Contrib. 17 % Contrib. .030  
1916 Cook, William J. _ Total S75.00 No. in Class 71 1920 O'Toole, Eugene J.  S 20 00 No. Contrib. 3 % Contrib. .042 S 10.00  Fontana, John C. _ Frederick. John F. . Quinn, Edward R. . Total $263.50 No. in Class 414  26.00 25.00 25.00 S 100.00 No. Contrib. 15 % Contrib. .036  Total No. Contrib. $142.00 6 No. in Class % Contrib. 422 .014 1934 Feferman, Lt. David M. 1.00 Hemming, Dr. John G., Jr«. 3.50 Roach, Edward J. 6.00  1939 Piercccchi, L t Robert J. Sandrock, L t Peter F. _ Schleck. L t Raymond M., Jr. N. D. Club of S t Louis, Mo., by Griffin, L t John J. Sullivan, John D. Wheeler. L t John B., Jr. „  10.00 10.00 25.00 100.00 5.00 10.00  
TMal $30.00 No. in Class 83 1922  No. Contrib. 3 % Contrib. .036  1929 Bamett, Joseph T. Bertsch, Paul A. Staudcr. Lawrence F. ,  5.00 5.00 5.00 $ 15.00  Total. $196.50 No. in Class 426  $ 9.50 No.Cantribw 13 % Contrib. .031  Total ­$284.50 No. in Class 606  $ 160.00 No. Contrib. 20 9% Contrib. .033  
Keams, Ravmond J. ..S 25.00 O'CbnncIl, Lt. Daniel J. 5.00 Youns, Daniel H. 30.00 Total ' $80.00 . No. in Class %' Contrib. 150 1924 Boyle. Judge Hugh C. 25.00 Brown, Dr. Harvey F. 50.00 Swift, Lt. Cmdr. James P. 10.00  Total $45.00 No. in Class 318 1930 Abbott, Joseph A. Bishko, Michael J. Cannon, Danid F. Gallagher, Hugh A. — O'Keefe, Jajnes G., Jr. Scanlon, Leo J. Yelland, L t John D. _  No. Contrib. % Contrib. .016 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 .1.00 10.00 20.00  1935 Fredericks, Norman J. 15.00 Jennings, James T. 10.00 Maholchic, Paul i . 10.00 N. D. Club of St. Louis Mo., by Ravarino, Albert J. 100.00 Williamson, Charles T. 25.00 t 160.00 Total Na.Conliu. $185.00 6 No. in Class % Contrib. 452 .013  1940 Bergan, Rev. Cornelius P. . 5.00 Brennan, Thomas V. J. 26.00 Gushing, L t Bernard J. _ 10.00 Dell. Cpl. Charles E. 10.00 Fay, L t William C 25.00 Hackctt, Thomas E. 5.00 LeStrangc, L t Thomas A. . 1.00 Letcher, John C. . 10.00 $ 91.00 Total Nol Contrib. $166.00 16 No.inCIasi % Contrib.  
$ 85.00  %  55.00  1936  695  .023  
Total  No. Contrib.  Total  No. Contrib.  Burke, James B. 10.00  1941  

$110.00 4 $70.00 10 Carideo, Lt. Frtd J. 5.00 Aselage. John B. _ _S 6.00 No. in Class % Contrib. No. in Class % Contrib. 
Jacobs, William L , Jr. 5.00 Brockman, Capt 208 .019 444 .022 
Laws. Dr. Kenneth F. . 25.00 Bernard N., Jr. ., 100.00 
Buckler, Sst. Joseph Lk . 20.00 Dean; Earl J., Jr. 10.00 Hunt Pvt John D. 
Byrnes. Lt. Matthew S. . 10.00 Devlin, John F. 2.00 Kisgen, Lt Richard W. Fegan, Lt. Walter W. _ 10.00 Dinges, Lt. John F. 5.00 LeMense, Lt Roliert D. Grobmyer, Major Gait,' Lt. James J. 5.00 Lennertz, Ens. Raymond 
John C .(deceased) 10.00 Hunt, Eugene F. 5:00 Lonergan, Robert P. HuUgren, Edward L. 5.00 Malone, John R, 10.00 Murphy, Sgt James W. Jehrins, Ens. Robert B. 10.00 McCarty, Lt Neil J. 5.00 Rademaker, John T. LeStrange, Joseph A., Jr. , 1.00 McDonnell, Horace J. 10.00 Tracy, Lt Joseph A. MacCauley, Sgt. John S. «. 25.00 Murphy, Lt Paul V. 10.00 Martin, Lt. Emery W. 24.00 O'Donohoe, Lt James E. . 20.00 Neild, L t Samuel J. 10.00 Roach, Sg t Daniel C. 10.00 Total Bcdd. Lt. Aloysius J. 2.15 Sommers, Armiger H. 3.00 S245.50 Redd, Set. Patrick M. 2.15 No. in Class Schmidle, Ens. Claude J. -. 10.00 % 126.50 323 Stackp Lt. Robert N. 10.00 Total No. Contrib. Timpani, Sgt. Ernest C. 2.00 $404.20 30 
No. in Class % Contrib. 1944 $ 256.30 512 .059 Aucremanne, Marcel J. . Total No. Contrib. Bristol, Lyons A. $137.55 30 1943 Casey, James F. No. in Class ^o Contrib. Atkins, Ens. Thomas L. . % 5.00 Cook. L t Kelly F. 
.044 Aucremanne, Albert G. „ 1.50 Duffy, Lt. Thomas L. Coco, L t Carl S. 20.00 Foester, Hallard L. — Duquette, Lt. Joseph E., 5.00 Guldan, Lt John A. ­
1942 Edwards, Lt John R. 10.00 John-ston, William H. Aucremannc, Camille E. -Godfrey, Sgt James E. 5.00 Lynch, Pfc John A. _ Bellinger, James E., Jr.. Hall, Richard A. 5.00 Malone, James J. 
Pvt. : 25.00 Hart Sgt James W. 10.00 Cordes, Walter J. , 5.00 Holwell, L t Daniel E. _ 5.00 
ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN* 
Key to letter with each name: A-N.Y.C., killed, American Red Cross; Alyea, Rob­ert E., Haythome, N. J., A.; Amberff. John H., 
Army; N—^Navy; M—^Marines; MM-
Peoria. 111., A.; Anderson, Edward W.. Rock-Merchant Marine. 
ford. III.. N. ; Anderson, Joseph D., Pcducah. Ky., A.: Anderton. John M., ex. '45, Oil City, Pa., A.; Andonian, David A., Akron, O.. N. : Andrews. Frank W.. Alliance. O.. A.; Angermeicr, Pierre v.. Lt. (jg), '31, Louisville. N.; Ankli. Edward v.. Benton Harbor, Mich., missing in action. A. 
Anzinger. Richard L., Springfield, O., A-; Ap­ker. Burton M.,^Chetek. Wis., N. ; Apone. Carl A.. Brownsville. Pa.,' A.; Apple, Donald C, St. Louis. M.; Arado, Richard J".r Chicago, N.: Aragon, Arthur O., San Bernardino,' Calif., A-: Arens. Donald C , Chicago. N. ; Armstrong, Dale S., St. Paul, M.; Armstrong. David A., Capt, ex. *45. Livingston. Mont., A.; Arneson, Charles A., De­corah, la., M.; Amhold, Daniel J., ex. '44, Hays, Kans.. Arnhold, James F.". Hays, Kans., A-; Ar­Lt Patrick E. Murphy, ex. '45 (left)« and nold, Clement W., Fitchburg, Mass., A.; Arqml­la, Arthur, Chicago, A.; Atkinson, James J., ex. 
Sgt Joseph T. Gibson, ex. '46. Their deaths 
'45, Ozone Park, N. Y., N.; Aubrey. Edward C, 
were made known in the April ALUMNUS. 
'40, Ens., Louisville. N. ; Aucremanne, Albert C , ex. '43, Clarksburg, W. Va.; Aucremanne, Camille E.. Lt. (jg), '42, Clarksburg, W. Va.. N.; Aucremanne, Marcel J., Ens., '44, Clarks­burg. W. Va.. N.: Aug. George E., Lt. (jg), '33. 
Abbott, James P., ex. *45, Swink. .Colo., A.; 
Cincinnati, O.. N. 
Abell. James H., Capt., ex. '43, Pueblo. Colo., A.; AboocI, Hannibal S., Lansin^r. Mich., N. ; Adam, Henry L., '4-1, Terre Haute. Ind., N. ; Adams. 
B 

John R .tWaucoma, la.. M.; Adams, Kenneth S.. 
Bachechi. Arthur L., Albuquerque, N. Hex., A.: 
Bartlesville ,OkIa., N. : Aertker, Walter P., Alex­Baiiey. Stanley E., ex. '45, 2nd Lt.. South Bend, 
andria. La.. A,; Aheam. John J., ex. '46, New A.: Bailey, James P.. Rydal, Pa., A-: Bairley, 
Orleans. La.. N. : Alden. Arthur R., Marietta, O., A.; Alexander, John P., ex. *4o, Columbus, O., A.; 
Robert A../Cascville, Mich., A.: Baker, John F.. 
ex. '43, Lt. Uxhridgc. Mass.. A.; Ball, Edward Allegra, Francis P., Chiccgo, A.; Allen, John D., 
H.. Ens.. '45, Winnetka, III., N. : Baltes, William R., Nonvalk, O., N. ; Bannen, James J., La­crosse, Wis.,' N. ; Bannon, Robert J., Trenton. 
Eau Claire. Wis.. N. ; Allinghara, George E., '33, 
* Increasing names and decrcasinr araihible 
N.' J., N. ; Baptiste, Charles R., Oaku, Honlulu.  make necessary condensation 
space combined to a N.: Barb, John M., ex. '44, Camden, N. J., A-: in this section of the "Alamnns,** with the result 
Barches. Louis P., Frankfort, III., N.: Bargon, that yoo sec here in the 801 names listed. It should 
Richard C. Lynbrook, L.L, N. Y.. N.: Bark, be recalled that a name is used only in  Barley,
 once James P.,' Midland, Mich., A.: Ward C. "Additional Service Hen," when the AInmnI Office 
ex. '43, South Bend. A.; Bamatones, Simon J., first hears that the man is in service. 
East Rochester, N. Y., A. 
Most of the men listed here are former V-I2 Barrack, Charles M.. SySgt, '40. Trinidad, stndsnts In the Univerrity. Since their status as Colo.: Barrett, John J., Gardena, Calif., N. ; alamni remains to be defined, a class year for Barrett. John L., Spokane, Wash., H. : Bar­ea;h of thsm haa been omitted. rett, Robert M., Gary, Ind.. N. ; Barsa. George 5.00 Tatal N»CMtiik. 5.00 »327.00 2S 
5.00 NsufaiCIus %c«iia. 

 J. 10.00 2S3 5.00 .091 
1945 

— 10.00 
Ryan, Theodore M. . 
25.00 
$ 1.00 
Tatal NoCMitrik. 
10.00 
$106.50 3 
Subscribcfs 

t 141.50 N*.CMitrik. Alu. Sg t Joseph G. . 25.00 
30 Clark, Lyman J. 5.00 
N.D. Qub of St Louis, Mo., 

%C«i<iib. 
by George, Paul M. 100.00 

.093 
Schlayer, Mrs. Charles E. — 1.00 
% 131.00 Total N*.CatiitL 
2.00 
$386.00 7
25.00 
10.00 Re-CapKulation: 
5.00 Total this period . $10,612.80 
5.00 Idst previous total 
10.00 (corrected) _ 4,764.43 
1.00 Grand Total to date . -$15,377.25 10.00 
10.00 Total in Classes . _10,667 
10.00 Total No. Contributors . _ 352 

Per Cent Contributors . _ .034 % 88.00 Average Contribution _ -$43.75 
J., e-x. "45, Phoenix, Ariz., N. : Barta. Gerald T.. Milwaukee, M.: Bartels, Charles A., Northfield. III., N.: Bartolomeo. John L-, Chicago, A.: Bas­tyr, George P., Pittsburgh, N. ; Bateman, Edward C , Baltimore. N. ; Bauer, Emory A., Albany, 
N. Y., M.; Baumgartner, James F., '45, West Bend. Wis.. N.: Baxter, Thomas K, Detroit. N.; Baynes, Francis G., Rome, N. Y., N.; Beagfaan, Daniel J., Springfield, III.. A.; Beaulien, Charles A., Springfield, Mass., A.; Beaurivage, John L., ex. '45, Lincoln. Nebr., M.; Bechtold. Joseph H.. ex. '41, Sioux Falls, S. IX. M.: Becker, George H , South Orange, X. J., N.; Beetler, Earl L., Peoria. III., M.: Begley, James S., Holyoke, Mess., A. 
Beh, Kenneth F., Lt., '41, Des Moines, la., N.: Beitelshees, Richard D., Huntington, Ind.. A. ; Bender, John R., South Bend, A.: Bender. Joseph R., St. Louis, N. ; Bennett, James E.. Burlington. Wis., N. ; Bennett, John. Lt., ex. '43, Burlington, Wis.. A.; Benson, Donald W.. Jamestown. N. Y.. 
N. : Bergeson, Frederick W, Blackfoot, Idaho, N. : Bernard, Richard W.. Mexico City. Mex., N. : Bernard, Vincent J.. '41, West Peoria. III. 
Bernhardt, Richard B., Toledo, O.. N. : Berres. John P., ex. '44, SySgt, Grosse Pointe, Mich., A. ; Bevilacqua, Donald A., Erie, Pa., A.; Biegd. Lewis J., Crown Point. Ind, A.; Bilotti. Anthony G., c-x. '44, Lt., South Oione Park, N. Y., M.: Birmingham. George G.. ex. '46, Souix City, la™ killed in action, M.: Birren, Donald H., ex. '44, Chicago, A.: Birsehitzky, Theodore J., Sooth Bend, A.; Bisfaee, Alexander H , Santa Barbara. Calif.. N. : Bisch, John J., Terre Haute, Ind.. N.: Bisese. John P., '42, Norfolk. Va.. N.: Bisesi, Michael A., Indianapolis, A.: Black. Henry. Forest Park. III., N. : Black, Henry C , Battle Creek, Mich.. A.: Blakely, Robert M.. Grinnell. la... M.: Blegen, Robert D., Minneapolis, N.; Bligh. John L , Jersey City. N. J., A. 
Bobbett. Robert L., St. Louis. A.; Bodie, Rich, ard :.€., .'4$^ Hinsdale, III.; Boguslawsld. Max. Buffalo, N. Y., A.: Bolchoz, Laurence S.. Charles­ton, S. C. , A.; Boleky, Qharles G., Emswprth, Pa., N. : BoU,' Charles H., Evansville, Ind., A. : Bollt, Eugene T., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.. A.; Bonk. Arthur, Detroit. N. : Bonta, Ivan E., 'Trenton, HOL. 
N. : Boone^ Floren V., Orland. Calif.. N. ; Bocne. William D., Carpus Christi, Tex., A.: Borehers, Gerald T.. Marinette, Wis., M.: Boien, James S.. New^ Orleans, A., Boswell, John P., Westboro, Mass., M.: Bourret. Clarence J., Hartford. Conn., A.; Bowen, John D., Binghamton, N. Y., N.; Bowers, Robert F.. ex. '43. Sgt., Indianapolis, A. 
Bowie, Kenneth S., Oskaloosa, la., N.; Boyce, John D., es. '42, Lt.. Cincinnati. A.: Bracken, Paul J., Johnstown, Pa.. M-; Bradley, Arthur L.. Lt , '31, New Bedford, M::ss.. A.. Brady. James M., Lt, '29. Idaho Falls, Id^ho. A.: Brannan. Paul B., Capt, '34, Madison, Wis., A.; Braun, Alphon­sus J., Lt.. '42, Hightston-n. N. J.. M.; Bregel, Georse E., Webster, S. D., A.: Brennan. Robert E., Milwaukee, N.; Bresnahan, William T., Lt (je), ex. '30, Columbus. O., N.: BrosBcr, Charles C, Ens., '41, Grand Rapids. Mich.. X. 
Brown, Earl M.. '39. Hanover, N. H.; Buchisnani, Leo J., ex. '44, Ens., Memphis, N.: Budynkiewicz, Theodore J., ex. '4G. Chicopee, Mass.; Bullock, Loren E., Osceola, Ind., roiss­inff in action, A.: Burke, John J., ex. '38, Kiver Forest III., killed in action; Bums, Patrick P., Lt, '33, Natchez. Miss.. A.; Bush, John M., ex. *43, West Los Angeles, Calif.. N.: Byersmith, Ronald B., ToUdo. A.: Byington, William M., Decatur, la., N. 
Cagney, Joseph P., ex. '46, Oak Park. 111., killed in action. A., Caley, Robert W.. 1st Lt, ex. '46. Chic::go, Idllcd in action, A.; Callaghan. Daniel C, Ens., ex. '44, Chicago, N.; Callaghan, Blartin T., Cpl., killed in action, A.; Campbell. George R., Capt. '39, Pittsburgh. A.; Cantlon, James J., Ettrick, Wis.. A.: Canzona, Nicholas A.. Chicago, H.; Carell. James M.. Ccpt, ex. '41. Huntington Woods, Mich.; Carroll. John M.. Lt Cmdr., '28. Springfield. 111., N.: Carvil, John J., ex. '45, Newport News, Va-, A.; Ciaccio. Ben­jamin P.. Pfc. '42. Chicago, A.; Cianchetti. Rob­ert M., Brooklyn. A.; Cicchesc. Alfred C. San Antonio. Tex.. A.; Clasby. Edward M.. Natick. Mass.. N.; Clatt Corwin. S.. ex. '45. Memphis; Clausing. Ernest L.. New Philadelphia. O.. U.; Clauss, Thomas F.. Lake Ariel. Pa.. N. 

Clemency. William M.. Ens.. '45^ Brooklyn. N.; Oo'-eman. Francis S.. ex. '44, Shelby. 0.. A.; Collins. William J., L t (jg). '34, Belle Harbor, la., N. Y., N.: Conaty. Robert C. Huntington, 
V. Va., N.; Conaty, Thomas J.. '44. Huntington, 
W. Va.. N.; Connair. Michael J.. Dayton, C, N.: Gonrardy, Richard H., Sheboygan, Wis., A.; Con-ti. Anthony J., 1st Lt, '32. Paterson, N. J., M.; Cook, Sanborn D., Sabetba, Kans., N.; Cooney. James F.. '45, Milford. Mass.. N.; Corbett James J.. Pf c '41. Elmhurst N. Y., A.; 
Gorbisiero, John V., Medford. Mass.. N.: Craig. Robert J., Downey. Calif., N.; Creevey. John F.. ex. '45. Clawson. Jlich.; Creevy, Thomas E.. ex. *44. Lt. Chicago. A.; Crerand, Peter J.. Bloomfield, N. J.. N.; Cunningham, Loree L., Maj., '28, St Petersburg, Fla., A,; Curtis, James B., Pfc, '41, Ilion. N. Y., A.; Czarobski, Sigis­munt P., ex. '45. Chicago. M. 
Davis. John G.. Burbank. Calif.. N.; Delaney, John F.. Lt, e-x. '41. Newark Valley. N. Y.; A.: Dalesandro. Joseph A., HcKees Rocks. Pa., M.; Daley. James B.. 1st Lt, '39, Niles, O., A.; Dea, John H., Major, '30, Minneapolis, A.; Dea, Wil­liam J., Lt, '33, Minneapolis, N.; DeBartoIa, Ed­ward J., Lt, '32, Youngstown, O., A.; DeClercq. Edmund J.. 1st Sgt. '27. Chicago. A.; Dee. John K.. Marion. O.. A.; DeGreve, Herbert A., Pvt, ex. '44, South Bend. M.; DeMots, Mark E., Minot 
N. D., N.: Derrico, Charles J., Bronx, N. Y., A.: Desloge. George B., St Louis, N.; Devoss, Henry G., Jeffersonville, Ind., N.; Dewes, Henry C, Ens., '44, Evansville, Ind., N.: DiCrocca Philip P., L t (jg), '39, Staten Island, N. Y , N., killed in action; Digby, Noel F., ex. '45, New Orleans. N.: Dlugosdi. John J., Storm Lake, Ja., M. 
Donovan, Edwin A., Galveston, Tex., N.; Dougherty, William B., ex. '45. New Rochelle. 
N. y.. N.; Dnimgould. J. William. Lt. '40. Foughkeepsie, N. Y., A.; Ducat. Harry A.. Pit­man. N. J.. A.; DuCharme. Paul E.. Ens.. '39. 
Chicago, N.; Duftey. Joseph G.. Indianapolis. N.; Duffy. John R.. Lt (jg) '39. Chicago. N.; Duffy. Thomas L., Lt. ex. "44, Sharon. Pa., A.; Dunn. William J.. Wilmette. III.. N.; Duquette. Joseph E.. L t (jg). '43. North Tonawanda. N. Y.. N. 
Eichorn, Frederick A.. (Chattanooga, Tenn., A.; Emmert John L.. Lt. '31. Wheeling. W. V*.. N.; Engel. Henry K, Lt, '40, C^ambridge, Mass.; Engen, Guy E, Ferryville, Wis., N.; Enright, Kenneth G., CJiicago, N.: Erdle, Paul J., Bethle­hem, Pc, M. 
Faught, Robert E., Ens., '44, Cleveland, N.; Fidler, Ra}-mond P., Ens., '41, Chicago, N.; Fields, David A., Lt, '29, Sharon, Pa.. N.: F!l­son. Robert B.. 1st Lt. '33. Baltimore. A.; Fisher, Clarlcson S.. ex. "45. Long Branch. N. J., A.; Fitz. Merrill E . Salinas. Calif.. N.; Htigerald, Wlliam P.. Lt. '43. Grand Rapids, Mich., M.; Flynn, R-ymond R., Pfc, ex. '43, Youngstown, O., A.: Ford, John L., '45, Marshall. Minn.. N.: Franck. Edivard L., '31. Joliet, III., A.; Frazee, Ronald J., Lansing, Mich., N.; Fry, Wesley L., Franklin. Pa., A.; Funk, Frederick R., ex. '44, Lt., LaCrosse, Wis., A.; Fushelberger, Robert J., Lt. (jg) '42. Columbus, Ind.. N. 
Gajewski. CHiester J.. Capt. '39. Chicago. A.; Gelhaus.-Robert E. Lt. '33, Cincinnati. A.: Ger­main. George L., Bariyton. Mich.. N.; Gibler, John T.. CTouncil Bluffs. la., M.; Gillespie; How­ard J., Ens.. '34. Summit. N. J.; N.; Gillis, James H.. Kane. Pa., ex. '46. killed in action. A.; Gil­rane. John J.. 1st Lt. '40. Pasadena. Calif.. A.; Goulet Arthur W., Canal Zone. N.; Graham, Donald R., Grand Rapids, N. 
Grainger, George R., Bakersfield, Calif., N.; Greder, Kenneth L.. Evansville, Ind.. N.: Green. Jack K.. S t Louis. Mo., N. : Greene, Jordan H., Jackson, Mich., N.; Greenhoe, Joseph A., Lansing, Mich.. N.; Gubanich. John A.. Sgt, '41, Phoenixville. Pa.. A.; Guimont, William M.. Lt. '35. Minneapolis. N.; Goshorst, fVed­erick W.. Denver. MM. 
H 
Habermann. William F.. Greenport L.I.. N. T.. N.: Hackett Thomas E.. Sgt. '40. Springfield. O., A.; Haffner. John C, (*!.. '41. Oak Park, III., missing in action. A.; Hagarty, Patrick J., Tyndall, S. D., M.; Hager. Albert P., ^trvej. 
N. D.. N.; Hagnauer. Robert T., Granite City, III.. N.: Hahn. Richard F., Wilmette, III., N..-Haigh. Robert W.. Balboa Island. Calif.. N.; Hallin. John G., Rockford. III., N.; Balperin. Jacob. Capt. '28. South Bend. A.: Hamilton, William J.. Chicago. N.; Hammersmith. Charles R.. Gary. Ind. 
Hammond. Joseph W., Greencastle, Ind., N.; Hancock, William 0., Walnut III., N.: Hand, Francis L.. Pfc, ex. '45, Alton, III., A.; Hanlon, Robert S., Chicago, N.; Hanneken, Elmer H., Park Hills, Ky., N.; Hansen, CTaire V.. Boekwell. la., M.; Hardart Francis J., 1st Lt, '37, New York City, A.; H::rdesty, Stephen P., Chitlieotlle. O., N.; Harrington, James F., '45, Richmond, Ind. 
Harris. James A., South Bend, N.; Hut. James W., SySgt, '43. Geneva. N. Y., A.: Hart, John B., Hamilton, C, N.; Hayward, Arnold P.. Bellevue. Pa.. M.; Healy, Eugene P.. Capt. 'U, Brooklyn. A.; Heeter. Philip R., Hnnde, Ind, N.: Heidewald. George W.. LaForte. Ind.,- N.; Helmandollar. Allen W.. .Newport News. Vft.,' N.; Hennebry. Robert E.. LaGrange; IIL. N.; Henrioulle. Eugene L.. Berkeley, IIL; Her­ringshaw. Thomas W., CHiicago. M.; Hest^. Pasquale. Louisville. (Tolo., N. 
Heilscher, John D., Chicago, N.; Higgins, David B., ex. '45, Utica, N, Y., killed in action, A.; Hillegass, Harold N., Leacock, Pa., N.; Hillenbrand, Francis H., ex. '43, Ens., Evans­ville. Ind., N.; Hillmcr. Donald F.. Oedar Rapids, la., M.; Hoag, Richard E , Benzonia, Mich., N.; Hockema, Thomas K., West Lafayette, Ind.. N.: Hodgdon. Herbert J.. Ckmcord, N. H.. N.; Hogan, Francis T., Gcrrettsville, O., N.; Hog­gatt Richard E, Terre Haute, Ind., N.: Holton, William Francis, Sooth Bend, A.; Hooley, Harry F., North Wales, Pa.. M.: Hooper, Howard W., 1st Lt, '39, Muskegon, Mich., A.; Houck, Rob­ert J.. Ypsilanti, Mich.. N. 
Houston. John R., South Bend. A.; Howard. James H., Elgin. III.. N.; Hoyer. Don A., Sharps-ville. Ind.. N.; Huter. William W., Tuscola, III.; Hueners. Walter R,. Jacksonville. Ore., N.; Huish. Daryl G., Redlands, Calif., killed in action. N.; Hummer. Edward J.. 1st Lt. '38. Defiance, O., A.; Humphreys, John H.. Lt. (jg). '32. Denver. N.; Huntley. William L., Ck>ral Gables. Fla.. N.; Hurd. Jerome N., Aurora, 111., N.; Hutchison, Thomas L., Detroit N.; Hutt John F., Louisville. N. 
lacocca, Julius F., Allentown, Pa., M.; Irwin, George J., Kinsman, 0., M.; Izzo, Joseph R., Oak Park, III.. N. 
Jacobs. Bernard A., Torrington, Conn., N.; Jensen, Robert Port Clinton, O., N.; Jensen, William B., Jr., Grand Rapids. Mich., N.; Jo-chums, Robert E., Hartley, la., M.; Joehlin, Norman C, Toledo, O., M.; Johnson, Earle S., Benton Harbor, Mich., N.; Johnson, Paul A., Laf^ette, Ind., N.; Johnson, Paul H., Rockford, IIL, N.: Johnson, Thomas J., Major, '29, (%ica­go, A.; Johnston, llieodore, Chicago, N.; John­ston, Wayne H., Dallas. Tex., killed in action, H.; Jordan, Donald G., Wolcottville, Ind., N.; Jordan, Harvey, Michig:.n City, Ind., N.; Jor­ris, Robert C, Toledo, O., N.; Joyce, John V., 1st Lt, ex. '36, Pittsburgh, A.; Jun, Donald L.. Alton, III., N. 
Kschelmeier. Aloysius A., Sllnger, Wis., N.; Kaiser, Francis W., TySgt, '43, (3iatsworth, III., A.; Kalapos, John C, Trenton. N. J., M.; Kane, Donald J., Lawler. la., N.; Kane Warren F.. SySgt. Roekville Center. N. Y.. A.; Kanouse, Lynn H.. Coldwater. Mich., N.; Kearney, John J., Ens.. '45. Woodhaven, N. Y., N.: Keams. William F.. Flushing, N. Y.. N.; Keenan. George J., CHifton. 
N. J.. N.; Keener. James A.. New Castle. Ind.. N.; Kelley. Augustine R.. Capt, ex. '36. Greens-burg. Pa., A.; Kelly. Francis L., Beresford. 
S. D.. N. 
Kelly. Frank G.. Bridgeport, Conn., N,; Kelly. John E.. Utica. N. Y., M.; Kelly, William. Chi­cago. N.; Kendall. Emerson P., Richmond, Ind., N.: Kennedy. Joseph E.. '32, New Haven, C^nn.. N.: Kenney. Raphael J., (^icago. N.; Kent. Don­ald S., Chicago, A.; Keogh, James R.. St Louis, N.: Kemer, Harry D., Cincinnati, N.; Kero, Eino 
C. Mohawk. Mich., N.; Kerr, Wilmont G, Fort Wayne, Ind.. N.: Kiehler, Eldon E., Ut Clemens, Mich., N.; Kilduff, Thomas B., Chicago, N.; Kinney, Donald D., Spartansburg, Pa.. U.; Kin­ney, Frands W., SySgt, ex. '46. Billings. Mont, A.; Kinney, Jidin R., Ens., '45, Bradford, Fa., M.; Kinsman, John F., Lt, ex. '45, Bin CHaire, Wii, killed in action, A.: Kirk, Arthur T., Lt (JK), '30. Eushville, Ind., N. ; Kirk. Billy K., Grandview, Ird., N.; Kisgen, Biebard W., Lt, '4S Carroll, la.. M.; Kitehin. Samuel. Richmond. Ind., N.; Kloekenkempar, James J.. Batditown. III.. N.: Knapp, Ernest E.. Acton. Ind.. N.; Kjuvvtr. Billy G.. Sioux (Sty. la.. M. 
Kodi, Robert, Des Moines. la., H.; Kohn. Alvin B., Chicaeo. M.: Krall, Rudolph A., Gary, Ind., N.; Kratz, Charles J., Angola, Ind., N.; Kraus, James R., Kankakee, III., N.; Krauser, George, Louisville. N.; Kress, James J., Detroit. M.; Krotchen, Bernard J.. DuQuoin, IlL. N.; Kraeger, James F., Milwaukee, Wis.. N.; Kmlish, Arthur H., Ridsewocd. i.L, N. Y., N.; Kunkel, Leo B., Kew Gardens, N. Y., N. 

Lach, Walter, Chicago, N.; LafTerty. John L.. 

'35, Chicago; Lahay, Floyd J.. St. Louis, M.; 
Lamb, James L., Ens., '45. Bismarck. N. D., N.; 
Lambeau. William J., Chicago. N.; Lange, Rob­
ert R, St. Louis, N.; Lsramore, Robert L, Raw­
lins, Wyo., N.; Larkin, Lawrence J., Cpl.. '38, 
Cranford. N. J., A.; Larsen. Don M, Wessington 
Springs, S. D., M.; Lasky, Leonard J., Marion, 
Ind.. N.; Lavelle. Anthony E., '40, Cleveland, 
N.: Lavery. Arthur J.. Lt. UB) '33, Brooklyn. 
N.; Lavin, Francis I., Chicago N.: Leamy. Rob­
ert W., Media, Pa., N.; Leander, Robert J- Oak 
Park, 111., A.; Lehman. Lawrence R.. South 
Bend. A., Lenhart, Robert E., Portsmouth, O.. 
N.; Lasiewicz. Earl J.. Chicago. N. 
Ledermann. Charles C, S/Sgt, '34. Utica. 

N. Y., A.: LeStranga, Thomas A., Lt (jg). '40, Drexel Hill, Pa., N.: Lindauist, Rodney F., Spo-• kanc^ Wash., N.: Livingston. Leon J.. Ens., ex.-. '42, South Bend, N.: Livingstone. Robert K, Sgt., ex. '45, Hammond, Ind.. A.; Lockwood. George W., Racine. Wis., N.; Lohr. Charles B., Cpl.. '42. Dallas. Tex., A.; Long, James R., Rockford, III.. N.: Longley, Donald D., Washing­ton, 111., .K.; Loucks, Robert D., Pierre. S. D., M.: Lundergan, Chcrles D., Verona, N. J., N.; Lunsmann. John, St. Louis. M ; Lussow, Robert, Milwaukee, N.; Lutticken. Robert W.. Pekin, 111., M.: Lux, William E, Hopkinton. la.. N.; Lynch. A., Brock, Winchester, Mass., N.: Lynch. Daniel W., Geneva. N. Y., N.; Lynn. Patrick J., Chi­ccgo, N. 
M 

Machado, Anthony J., Davis, Calif., H.; Hack. John G.. Ens., '45, Niles. Mich., N.; Mack, Rob­ert E., Morris. III., N.: Mackay, Colin F., Water­bury, Conn., N.: Madden. John G.. Tulsa, Okla., N.; Mahan. James D.. Connersville, Ind., N.; Mahon, John K.. Chicago, M.; Maiuri. Joseph, Montgomery, W. Va., A.; Maloney, Thomas J., Queens Village; N. Y., N.; Maloy, Vance G., Bell. Calif.. N.: Manarik. Kenneth F., N.; Mangines, Thomas E.. Bridgeport, Conn., N.; Mann. Dewey C, Cpl., ex. '45, South Bend, killed in action. A.; Mansfield, James P., Yonkers. N. Y.. M.; Marche Mansfield, James P.. Yonkers. N. Y.. M.; Marchele­wicz, James L., South Bend, N.; Marget, John J.. Carroll. la., N.: Marshall. Robert C, Kansas City. Mo., M.; Martin, Arthur R-, Pvt, '36, Chi­cago. A. 
Martin. Richard S., Venice. 111., N.; Martz, George A., East St. Louis, 111., N.'; Maschke, Pat-trick R., Sgt.. '44, TVrone, Pa., killed in action, A.; Matthies. Frederick J., Omaha, Nebr., M.; Maurer, Frederick G., Pfc, '45. Lima. O., A.; Mayer, Lee Olen, Minneapolis. M.; Mayer, Wil­liam E., Buffalo, N. Y.. N.: Mayo. J. Lewis, Youngstown, O., M.; Mays, Richard A.. Elkhart, Ind., N.; Mazar, James R.. South Bend. N. 
McCanney. Vincent A., Pfc., '34. Los Angeles, A.: McCarthy. Daniel P., Chicago, N.; McCarthy, John E., 1st Lt, '30, Pittaford, N. Y., M.: Mc­Carthy, Robert C, Tulsa. Okla., M.: McCarthy, William A.. Lt, '34. Chicago. N.; McCoIlough, Lloyd C. Elkhart, Ind.. N.: McConville, John, Knoxville, la.. A.; McDonald. Harry H., La-Grange. III., N. : McGinnis. John J., Cpl., ex. '44, Chicago, killed in action. A.; McGonaele. 
J. R., Capt, ex. '28, Los Angeles. A.: McGour­ty. Charles G., Montebello. Calif.. N.; McGovem, Terrance N., Van Nuys, Calif.. M. 
McGowan, Graham, W., '44, Burlington. Vt, A.: McGuire, Albert P.. Pvt, '44, Barberton, O.. 
A.; Mclnerny. Arnold M., Pfc, '42, South Bend, 
A.; McKenzie. Charles W., Detroit. A.; McKin­
ney, Harry. South Bend, N.; McLanshUn. John 
H., Detroit, N.: McMaster, Robert A., Philadel­
phia, M.; McNamara, Michael F;, Hnntinston 
Park, Calif., N.: MeNamee. John H., Lt, '41, 
Las Vegas. Nev., A. 
HcNichoIas. Walter F., Chicago, Vt.: HeNoItr. 
John P.. Sgt, '43. Oak Park, HI.. A.; KePup­
land, Clifton E, Shadyside, O.. N.; Hewher. 
Edward F., Seattle; A.; Meagher, Robert J., Seat­
tle. A.; Meals. Lyie C, Peoria. N.: Meier. 
William G., Kenosha, Wis.. N.; Mello. James A., 
e.x. '43. West Warwick, R. L, N.: Merz. Robert F.. Portland. Ore., N.; Mescall, John G.. Chicago, III.. N. 
Mettler, Victor R.. '35, Hammond, Ind.; Metzger, Richard B., Lafayette. Ind.. N.; Meyer­ing. Jules V.. Chicago. N.; Michael. John V., Huntington, Ind., N.; Michael, Leo F., Louisville. N.; Michaud, John B., Litchfield, Minn., M.; Michaud, Maurice J.. Lewiston, Me.. N.; Hid­daugh, Frank R., Columbus, O., N.; Miesel, Don­ald R.. Detroit, N.: Miller, Lee E., Casper, Wy e A., Miller. Samuel W., Glenside, Pa., M.. Miniek. Roy W.. Sherbum, Minn., N.; Mintelier. John F.. Duluth. Minn., M.: Minkowski, Edward V., Pfc. ex. '47. Kenosha, Wis., missing in action. A.: Mitchell, Donald H., Tipton, Ind., N.; Hitd­ell, John J.. Billings. Mont; M.: Miller, (^lix, Jr.. South Bend. Ind.. N. 
Mock. George R.. Pittsburgh, A.. Molitor, John P.,'Kendallville. Ind., N.; Mailer, Richard K, Ens.. '38, Westville, Conn., N. : Monahan. Ed­ward C. Detroit. N.; Moodie, John L., Arlington Heights. 111., M., Moody, Willson B., Omaha. M.: Moon. Russel O., Upper Sandusky, O., M.; Moore. Philip E , Evanston, HI., N. 
Moran, Thomas O., Findlay, O.. N.; Moran, William C . Highland Park, III., N. : Morris, Arthur P., Kansas City, Mo.. N.; Morris. Fred L.. Major, '35, Mexico. Mo., killed in action. A.; Mowry, David E., Dawson. III.. M.; Moyer, Don­ald R., Parkersford, Pa., N.; Mudiridge. Jack O.. Salem. Ore., N.; Mueller. Arnold A., New Salem. 
N. D., N.: Mumey, Richard G., Springfield, Ma. N.; Murphy. Donald J., Brooklyn, N.; Murphy, Gerald H., Champaign, III., N.; Murphy, Gerald S.. Portland, Me., N.; Murphy. Hilliaid J., Mun-ford. Tenn., N. 
Murphy. J. Emmett, L t (jg) '35, Ida Grove; la.. N.; Murphy. John B.. 1st Lt, '41, Emigrant. Mont, killed in action. A.; Murphy, John P.. Atlanta. A.; Murphy, Patrick £., Lt, ex. '45. St Cloud. Minn., killed in action. A.; Murray. Rodg­er T., Escanaba, Mich.. N.; Myers. Richard L.. Altoona, Pa., N. : Myers, William G., TySst, Mishawaka. Ind.. '37, A. 
N 

Nash, Joseph H.. 2nd Lt, ex. '44. South Bend, A.; Neary, John F., South Orange, N. J.. N.; Neekerman. John G.. FyO, Pilot Grove. Ma, A.; Nee, Maurice L., Lt, (jg), ex. '38, Washington, 
D. C. N.; Nelson. Edward J.; Ferguson, Ma. N.: Nelson. Leon M.. Litchfield, Minn.. M.; Neu­feld. Joseph A.. Sgt, '44. Green Bay, Wis., A.; Newgard. Robert M., Des Moines. M.; Newman, Max H., Di Giorgio. Calif., N.: Nichols. John E., '45, Rutland, Vt. N.; Nickels, Rohert G., CMea. go. N.; Nipple. Charles A.. Benton. Ind., N.; Nolan. William J., 1st Lt, ex. '43. Hempstead, 
N. Y.. A.: Nugent. Joseph E., Ty4, '42, Chieaga A.: Nutil, George J.. Toledo, M.; Nowlen, Ihamas T.. Benton Harbor. Mich., N. 
O'Bannon. John F., Brown's Station, Ma, N.; O'Brien, Edward J.. L t (jg) '34. Pittsburgh, N. : O'Brien, Joseph F., Philadelphia. H.; O'Calla­han.. Robert E, Ironwood. Mich., A.; O'Connor, Carroll J.. Syracuse, N. Y., N.; O'Connor, George M.. 1st Lt. ex. '43, Chieaga killed in action. A.; O'Connor, Charles J., Capt, '35, Marietta, Fa.. 
A.; O'Connor. John J., 1st Lt. '31, Mass. M.: O'Onmor. Siduud J., Caap Hill. Pa., A.: O'Connor, William J., Tnlsa. A.; Ode^' bach. Babert C. '41. Rodiester. N. T.; N-: O'DonncIl, Bobeit EL. Elyria. O.. N. : OfUkn . Eugene P.. Denver. N. 
O'Harx. John K, Indianapolis, N.: CXaa^ Edward F., '42. Great Neck, N. T.. N.: Oboo. John F., Lt (is), ex. '32, Chippewa Falb. Wis.. N.: Olson. Paul L., Cambridge. HUN.: OVcan. Eugene P., Denver, A.; Oppenheim, Jay P,. North Manchester, Ind.. N. : OlieiUy. Ihomas IX, CU­eago, N.: Orsi, Joseph J.. Ttaunton. Han.. N.; Ortner. Gene M.. Flint IDA., N.; Osbm, De-Verle R.. Bonrfaon. Ind., N.; Osborne. Haiiy X, Pfe, ex. '45. Elgin. HL, lolled in eetioB, A.; OTbole, John J.. '43, MerrilL Wdi.. N.: Over, William H.. Minneapolis. M.: Ovem. Arthnr EL. Los Angeles. N.; Oyler. Verne W., Seattle; N.: Okleshen, Ernest J., Chicago, M. 
Padesky. Robert C. Ens., '43. LaCtoMe, Wb. N.; Padon, Joseph A, Ttalsa: Fa]]a£no.' Bob­ert F., Natiek, Mass., N.: Pardin^ Chariei W.. Whiting, Ind.. N.: Parker, Guy C, Chieagn; N.: Parker. Jack B., Detrmt N.; Patmeeo. Joatph P.. 1st Lt. ex. '44, Meriden, Conn.. A.; Paalaoo. Harry E.. Chicago, N.: Pavlin, Bobeit J.. Ilapl* Heights, O., M.; Payne, William J., San Frands-CO, N.; Pearaoi., William a. Mesa, Aria.. N.; Peek. Donald K., Milwankee. N.; Fedley. Harioa El. Chieaga N.: Pekar, Anthony F.. Chleags^ M.: Pesaventa Benzo. J. T..'43, N.Y.C. 
Peters. Edward H., Chieaga N. : Fetenon, Charles G., Grand Ledge. Mid.. N.; Fetanoa. Howard G.. Sioux City, la., M.: Peterson, Say K. Minneapolis, N.: Petrey. Harry 6.. Haines City. Fla.. M.; Pfaff, George O. South Bend, N. : Pickles, Harold E.. Columbus. O., N. : Fietsdi, Wesley W., Sioux Falls. S. D.. N. : PitscblBi; Frederick A., Boekford, HIX N. : Pojman, Aatem Sgt. Chicago. A-: Folitoske, Edward X. Clear­field. Pa.. A. 
FopadowsU. George D., Chicago. M.; Fotioii­ani, Anthony F„ Ens., '40, Anrora, HL, N.; Fa^ tenhamn. Linns F., Tentopolis. HI.. M.; Poidia, Alfred J.. Nashua. N. H., N.; FowdL Chailas S_ Springfield. Mo.. N.; Frennv Charles A.. Fart-land, ' Ore, N. : Frokiv, Winiam H., M-^»r-)i Wis.,.N. 
Qnasarano. Anthony J.. S/Sgt, ex. '45. Detmi^ A.: Qoaiey, Biehaid L., Lake Bhiff. HL. H : Qneirolo. Bobert U, Saa Krandseo, N. : Qoiaa, Michael P.. Chieaga N.: Qnanstno, Bidiaid C; Bloomington, IlL, N. 
Bademaeher, Boy A.. Mt Ckrmd, HL, M.: Baa Joseph W., Council Bluffs. la.. N.; Bissioi, Don­ald I... Kenilworth. HL, M.: Rahe, WilBam C Tbleda N.: Band. John L.. St Mary's Kans;. N.: Ray. William S.. Vrbana. HL. N.; BediKml John K.. Manhasset. N. Y., A.: Beese. Walter, Buchanan.-Mich.. N.: Reid. John W.. ArBngtm Heights, Mass.. N.; Reardon. Robert C, Kansas aty. Ma. A.; Reidy Fkank J.. Lt. '37, Ttalsa. A.; Beilly. Paul A.. Yonkers. N. T., N.: Beilly. Thomas E.. Marlbora Mass.. N.; Beiss, Thomas J.. Lake Placid. N. T.. A.; Beminger, John H.. Drexel Hills. Fa.. M.: Reynolds. Ge<»se F.. larnn. Mass.. N.: Bhiel. Floyd J.. Phim dtr. Wis...M_ Kec. Paul M.. Kirkwood. Ma. H.; Keh, Bobot J.. Brooklyn. N. T.. N.; Bid. Sanrad. Detroit M. 
Bid . William L.. Lt . ex. '45, Brooklyn. N. : 
Ridards. William H.. Easton. Pa.. N.; BMisebb 
Henry J.. Manitowoc. Wis.. N. : RUHe; Charles K. 
'40, Euclid. O.; Riggs, Donald IX, Orion. HL. N. : 
Ring; Wayne A.. Boekford. IB., N.; Ktdie, Wil­
liam G.. Ludlow. Mass.. N. : Roberts. S'rmnk, Pleasantville. N. Y.. N.: Boberts. Gearge a. On­
le.: E-iHsaci!, Ynz-JS'. T.. Chih;<T. >taM„ K.: 
V_ St. Lrjoir, ;.'.: EolUjid. Alsn J.. V-Y-C- X.: EciuKo. Jfaah«-»r P., •« , VUr. W, VE., K. 
E«>Knelt, HOT. Franklin D_ LLD. 'M. Cna­m^ndhrAtxhiKt iitxKirtAi: Bv»»i. Uzc> D , Pvt_ '<2, San iiu^/i. A.: E«j?retix, Ltartnct J., Clear-fie!d. Pa.. S. ; VjaUufi'.i. Iturio J-. Cniczxo. JJ-: Eoektr. Arthur M., Oo.-tUnd. Ij>i. K.: Eodolf. Ja»n«( A., Lt. (jx). '31. Cbirfcsvra. .=. C, X-: RoM^U, William H- MinnfeaifOlii, X. 
Sandtrt, John A., Hamilton, O., A.; iiantuIU. Midi»l A., CpL. •.^, X.Y.C.. A.: .=a-»rtelle. G*r­aW W'„ Plajjo, IIL, X. ; Scha*:z'«; TherArm C. Akron, O., A.: Sche*!, Kenneth E.. Chicago. M.: Sdik«inaer, Robert C. Ocero. III., X.: Schmej­ner. Alfred E., Grand Rap-df. Midi., X.: Schmelz, Edtcard A« Ceorsretown, Ind., X-; .Schmidt, Tru­man H., Fort Wayne, Ind,, X-: Schneider, Gtorxe P_, Beverly Hilli. Calif„ M.: .Scholar.d. Welter J.. Lt. (Jx), '30, Fairi«rt, X. Y., X.; Schnltz, John 
C .S Ijc. '25, Beardi!t«»-n, III.. X'. ; Schnltz. Eob­ert K,, Titwn'ille, Pa., M.; Schtirenl^rz. Carl J., Fort Wayne. Ind.; Sadoxski, Richard M-. Pen=a­cola, Fla-, A. 
Schwartz, George A., Lt., ex- '4.5, Lehighton, Pa., A., Scott, Louis E., Prouo, S. D., M.: Scott, Eoljert L., Garfield, Kznt, X.: Seeberg. Wilbur, Chicago, M.; .Seeger, William F., Lafayette, Ind., 
X.: Seizert, Dean K., PeterBburx. Mich., X.; Sela­kovich. Walter C., Great Fall«. Mont., X.; Setzer, Robert L., Harrifcburjc, Pa., JL; Setzer. William F., RidKewood, X. J.. A..- Shader. Jack C, Royal Oak. Mich., X.: .Shaller, Dclmont V.. Mountain-home. Pa., M.: Shanahan. Thomag C , Wilkins­burtr. Pa., M. 
Shay. ThomaH M., Kansas City, Kans., 31.; Shte<iy, Frederick J., Seneca, III., X.: Shellen­barger, Richard X., Troy, O., X.; Siekemeyer. Leonard W., T/.l, '.35, Fort »u Pont. Del., A-: Silva, Chester A.. Fort Thomas, Ky., X.: Sim­mons, Lorcn A„ Waukejfan, III., M.: Simpson, Sydney E.. .South Bend. CapU, ex., '44. A.: Skelly. Joseph W., T/4. '40, Avon. X. Y.. A.; Skinner, John v., Geneva. X. Y., A.; Sklair, Victor, Chi­cago N.: Sklare. Arnold K., Chicago, M.: Slattery. Eugene J., Chicago, A.; Sloyer, Wayne, S., Enston. Pa., M. 
Small, Marvin B., Chicago, N.: Smid. Patrick J., Chicago, N. : Smith, Harold M.. Xokomis, III., M,: Smith, Harrison G., Orlando, Fla., X.: Smith, ly>rcn I., Xokomis, 111., M.; Smith, Richard E., Plainficld, 111.. M.: Smith, Walter W.. Winona. Minn., M.; Smyth William K., Cincinnati, M.; .Snider. RtA>ert C. Jamestown. X. D., M-; Snyder, Neil C. South Bend, M.; Snyder, Vernon L., Mcadville. Pa.: Sollitt. Ralph B., South Bend, X.: Spcccc, William E., York, Xebr.. M.; Spcngel. Raymond J., Highland, 111., X'.; Spinney, Eric D., Royal Oak, Mich.. X.; Sprngue, Xeal A., Aurora, III., M. 
Stark, Jack P.. Fort Wayne, Ind., X.: Stasie­wicz. Richard A., Chicago, M.: Statuto, Arthur G.. Saugus, Mass., N. ; Staunton, Henry A., '.?6, South Bend, A.; Stavridis, Paul G., Allcntown, Pa-, M.; Steinbacb. Clifford Q„ Frecman.sburK, Po., M.: Stevens. William P.. Pctensburg.. Ind., N.; Stevenson, Robert L., Minneapolis. M.: Stiak, Joseph J., Chicago, M.; Sticrhort. W.ide L., San­dusky, O., N. ; StoeckinKcr, John IL, Mishawaka, Ind.. N.: Slohrcr, Robert W.. Chicago. X.; Stout, Charles W.. Flint Mich.. N. 
Strnnd, Joseph C , Lt., '38, Chicago. N. : Strzalkowski, Dennis J.. Detroit, M.: Stupay, Roliert A., Lisle, III., M.; Sullivan. Daniel C., S/Sgt.. '37. Ulysses. Knns., A.: Sullivan, Hugh R. Indinnnpois, N. ; Sullivan, John, Belle Harbor, L.I., N. Y.; Sumption. Harold L . Aberdeen. S. 
D.. N. ; Suth. Emery W.. Pvt.. e.x. '36. South 
The Notre Dcone Alumnus 

Four members of the Holy Cross ocdar weio greeted on April 18 by Ber. Thomas A. Steiner. CS-C their pronndal. npoB their retimi to Notre Dame after three years' intern­ment fay the Japanese in the Phillippines. (See story in April 1945. ALUMNUS). Left to right ore Brother Theodore, Brother Bex. Ber. Jerome Lawyer. Father Steiner and Ber. 
Bobert McKee. 
Bend, M-; Sweeney, David F., Rockville Centre, 
X. Y.. M.; S»inford, Leo. Paris, III., X', 
Taft, Robert W., Sioux City. la.. X.; Talento, Frederick. Rye, X. Y., A.: Tenczar. Frands J.. Pfc, '45, Chicago. A.: Terry, Ro'oert T., Eewanee, III., A/S. ex. '47, X-: Thielk, Richard N., Ann Arbor, Mich.. X. : Thomas. Troy A.. Melrose Park, 111.. X.: Thompson, Bernard W., Bakersfield. Calif., X.: Thompson. Ralph S., Bismarck. N. D., X'.; Thornton, Joseph E., Chicago, M.; Tobin, George E., Arlington. Mass. 
Tobleck. Guenter G.. Chicago. M.: Trixler. Stephen P.. Huntington. Ind.. A.: Tucker. Wil­liam W.. Wichita, Kans.. X. : Tupper. Jack W.. Duburiue. la.. N.: Turner, Charles W., Jackson. Mich.. X.: Twardzik. Louis F.. Shenandoah. Pa., M.: Tyler. Hugh J.. Lowell. Ind., N. : Tyler, Louis R.. Drexel Hills, Pa.. M.; Tzoudnakis, Man­uel S.. Bloomington, Ind., X. 
u 
Unruh. Lyman D., West Bend, Wis.. X. 
Van Asselt. Harrold. Grand Rapids, Hich., H.; Van Lente. Dale E., Holland, Mich.. M., Van Ryn! • Edwin D., Detroit, M.; Van Tilbury, Jack D.. Mishawaka. Ind.. X.; Veenstra. Charles C Racine, Wis., M.: Velguth, Frederick W., Mil­waukee, M,; Vesenka. Martin A., Manville, R. L, 
N. : Vogt, Frank J.. Milwaukee. N. ; Vogt, John W., Philadelphia, M.; Vosbeck, William P., Ibn­knto, Minn., M.; Vugrin, James'J.. Lansford, Fa. 
w 

Wabl, Warren P.. Steriing. HI.. N. : Walder. Burton. N. Y. C. N.; Walcrko. Francis, South Bend. X.; Wallace. Paul B., Minneapolis, M.; Walsh. David A., Washington, D. C . N. ; Walsh, Edward F.. Cpl., '43. Milwaukee. A.; Walsh. John C, Indianapolis. M.; Walsh. Thomas J., Bronx. 
N. Y.. A.: Ward. Curtis H.. Woodsfield. O., N.; Ward. Ira J.. Knoxville. la.. N. : Wares. Dale A.. Traverse City. Mich.: Warrick. Robert G., Toledo. A.: Warshawsky, Sanford A., Detroit, N.: Wathen. Richard D.. Louisville. N. ; Waxvik, Warren M., Great Forks. N. D., N. : Waybright. Douglas G.. Saugus, Mass., A.; Weaver, John K., Moville, la.. N. 
Weber. Paul H.. Sgt.. '43. Albany. N. Y.. A.; Wcibel, Donald C, LaCrosse, Wis., M.: Weiland, Paul M.. Lancaster. O., A.: Welch. Francis M.. Clarksburg. W. Va.. N. : Wells. Keith E., Ster­ling. III.. N.: Weybume. Robert F., Toledo, M.: Whalen, William J.. Wamvatosa. Wis., N. ; Wheeler. John B.. Lt. (jg). '39. CTlicago. N.: Wheeler. Roger M.. Reading. Mass., N. : White, James J., Edgewater, N. J.. N.: White. Jean R.. Hcopeston. III.. N. ; Whittier. Gordon D., Cran­ford, N. J.. N. : Wibbelsman. Virgil. South Bend. 
M. :;Vrichowski, John W., Elkhart, Ind., N. 
WTese; James A. Seymour, Wis., N. ; Winks, Rolirt P.. Capt, ex. '45. Sumner. la.. A.: Winter, Philip A., St Louis. M.: Wishing, William J., South Bend, A.; Witt, John D., South Bend, N.; Wjtten, Charles H., Millerstown/ Kj-., N. : -Wood. Joe W.. Little Rock, Ark., N. : Wooley. Allan Rively. Jr.. Long Branch, N. J., N.: Worman, Harry E., Tipp City, O.. N. ; Worthington. Robert O.. Birmingham, Ala.. N. ; Wrape, William E., Ens., '45. Uttle Rock, Ark., X.; Wilson, Guy 
C . Hoquiam. Wash.. M. 
Yacobi. Xavler F., Newport News. Va., A.: Yelland. John D., Lt , '30. Minneapolis, N. : Yonto, Joseph F., Orville. O., A. 
Zekan, John D.. Springfield, N. J., N.: Ziegen­hom. Maurice J., Chicago, A.; Zilly, John L., Sonthington, Conn., N. ; Zlmmer. Ernest E., '43, Cincinnati, N. ; Zimmerer, Carl E., '34, Louisville, MM; Zimmerman, John K., Carlisle. Pa.. N. ; Zitt, Herman A., Normandy, Mo., N. : Zontini, Louis R., '40, Whitesville, W. Va.; Zucca." John L., San Francisco, N. ; Zwoyer, Eugene H.. Oswego, III., N. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Akron 
Francis E. Steel, '23. 1019 Amelia Ave., Pres.; Theodore N. Ley, '26, 886 Valdes Ave., SEC. 

We had a meeting at the Univer^ty Club in Akron for our annual election of officers. The ar­rangements were mnde hy the retiring president. 
C. A. BaiJi. Through the kindness of Don Miller, we were able to show the picture, "The Spirit of Notre Dame." Officers were elected for the en­suing year — myself as president, John Doran, vice-president, Ted Ley, secretary, and Al Hilkert, treasurer. 
The dinner was attended by: Joe Krzker* £d 
Ra«k and son. Bob Kolb. Tom Wnkowitz, John 
Detlinx. Jerry Kline, fifark Geertz, Dick Botznn^ 
Steve and Stan Wozniak, Chick McGnckian, Bill 
Rdkamp, John Doran, Bemie and Ted Ley, Art 
Keeney* and Tim Ranh. 
Frank E. Steel 

Baltimore 
Regarding Baltimore's contribution to Univer­sal Notre Dame Night, 1945, Hal Williams writes: •*Ed Bailey was the organizer, brains, prime mover and fairy godmother of the affair. He did a mighty fine job, particularly in view of the fact that the boys were rounded up on three days notice. . . . After a dinner at a downtown restaurant, we did a snake dance to the Lord Baltimore Hotel, where Ed had engaged a parlor. .. . A call to Alumnor Arrastronr topped the evening. . . Everyone had a whale of a good time, and it was unanimous that we should get together for another affair. 
"Those attending were Chock Brosios, '38, Georre Raasas, *4U Capt. Jack O'Xeil. *S4, Capt. Chick Englehart, '39, Bill Cooney, '32. Paul Doran, *37, Ed Bailey. -'22, and Hal WilliamB, '38. Several other local lads couldn't appear that evening: Dr. Francis Traynor, *37, Ens. Clark Reynolds, '38, Dr. Roy Scholz, '35, and Lt. Jack Monteverde, '38." 
Hie Baltimore delegation gathered again on Hay 8 to celebrate the local appearance of BUI Doolcy. assistant alumni secretary, and, incident­ally, to observe V-E Day. Bill, with Ed Bailey and Chick Enxlchart as chaperons, had showed the new Notre Dame movie in the morning to 900 high school students in Ht. St Joseph's College, Baltimore. In the evening the following on an hour's notice joined up with Bill for dinner: Ed Bailey, Chock Brosios, Clark Rey­nolds, and George Rassas. On Friday, May 11, Bailey, Rassas. O'Neil and Doran trekked down to Washington to participate in the club meet­ing there. Williams was out of town that month. 
Buffalo 
.Robert J. Boms, '26, 21 W. Grimsby Rd., Kenmore, N. Y.; Pres.; Joseph F. Ryan. '29, 50 Frantenac Ave., Sec. 

Seventy-five members and guests attended our annual dinner on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 9, at the Hotel Sheraton. Jim Carroll, for­mer secretary-treasurer of the Notre Dame Club of New York City, is now the manager of the Sheraton, and Buffalo-N.D. men find him a most gracious host. The dinner itself was under the chairmanship of Gordon Bennett. The principal spanker of the evening was the Rev. Nelson LogaU assistant pastor of St. Joseph's Old Cathedral. Father Logal stressed the need of greater action and emphasis of the Catholic viewpoint by Cath­olic college graduates- Pictures of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game of 1944 were shown. The success of the dinner itself marked.the end of a program which was inaugurated about one year ago to re-establish the club as an active organi­zation. Almost every Notre Dame man in the area was present. 
The morning of May 8 found approximately 60 members at the St. Joseph's New C&thedral to witness the installation of the Most Rer. John F> O'Hara, C.S.C., D.D., as the eighth new bishop of Buffalo. Naedless to say. we are most gratefol that our new bishop should be a Notre Dame alumnus and a former president of the University. The installation ceremonies were impressive and were attended by the largest delegation of m^n­bers of the Catholic hierarchy ever seen in Buffalo. 
In the afternoon approximately 35 N-D. men met for lunch at the Hotel Sheraton. Appnud­mately 10 Rochester club members attended. An invitation at the 11th hour extended to the Ker. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., to address our lunch­eon was most graciously accepted by him. Father O'Donnell spake of the future plans for the Uiu­versity and the need of a greater endowment. 
Our club president. Jack McKendry, has been called to active service in the United States Army. Jack has served his club well, and it is with resret that we see him leave. Doc Boms will succeed him. 
Joseph F. Ryan 

Centrof New York 
Henry T. Bickey, '38, 3C8 Cayuga St', Syra­cose, Pres.; Hawley E. Van Swal!. *41. 12*2 Harrison St., Syracuse, Sec. 

On April 9 the club met at the University Club, Syracuse, for the first time in two years. We had 25 in attendance, which we conuder very good for the number that are in the service from this part. 
. Henry Hickey, '38, was elected president for the new year and Hawley Van Swall, '41, secre­tary. Father John Harrison, '41, lately ordained, was chosen chaplain. 
It was decided to have another meeting at the Skaneateles Country Club, Skaneateles, the third week in July for golf, swimming and dinner. 
Those in attendance at the April 9 meeting were: Frederick Delancy, '30: £ . C SA«ila«» '13; James H. Hoxford, '21; Vincent J. Br«wa» '23; Rev. John G. Harrison, '41: Hawley E. Van Swall. *41; Bill Byrne, '36, Francis A. Ledsnuum *30; Dan Wiliams, '31; Johnny Xyiko% '27; Mark Mooney. '27 ; Bill Cate, '27; Jostin Corcoraa, '27: Leo D. Kelly, *21; Henry T. Hickey. '38; Rcr. Frank J. Harrison, '33. (past chaplain) and Rer* 
F. G. Straob. Hawley Van Swall 
CAicogo 
John W. Dorgan, '29, 1488 Scott Ave., Wi»­
netka, Pres.; Thomas S. MeCahe, '22. I48S 
Rasdier Avenue, Sec 

The club's obser\'ance of Universal Night on April 17, held at the Palmer House, set a new hi]^ standard in the long list of similar notable 
affairs. 
The long table seating the guests of honor in­cluded Mayor Edward J. KcOy. Most Rcr. Saaael Stritch. archbishc^ of Chicago, and Bcr. J. Ha|^ O'DenncD, CS-C* president. Byioa V. Kanaley* chairman of the Board of Lay I^rnstees, was toast­master. 
Father O'Donnell delivered an interesting oot­line of Notre Dames* plans for the post-war fa-' ture. [The substance of Father O'Donnell's talk will be found elsewhere in this issue.—^Eds.] Archbishop Stritch spoke on the need for more active participation in civic matters by educated Christian citixens. The large attendance, the ex­cellent dinner, the fine program and arrange­ments were due to the intelligence, foreagfat and persuasive endeavors of Frank Dawi and his oora­mittee. 
During the dinner President John W. Dergui 
announced that the club's office would open on 
June 1. Chairman Ed OToole when last seen was 
studying blueprints of floor plans, conferring with 
interior. decorators and investigating the priority 
situation on typewriters. 
T«M McCahe 

Cfevefoatf 
Ed«ard B. KOecc, *33, 3158 BfontgeMety Sd., 
Pica.; CUicace J. Kaoafc, ex. *3», 1811 Vaa 
Bates Are., East Clerdaad, Sec. 

Joseph H. Morris is in Italy. Pfcw Edward B. Binrray is with SAAF. Warrensfaurg.^Mo. Daa T. CBriea is a lieutenant (jg) in the Niivy; hf? ad­dress is Route 1. Box 474. Bothell. Wash., and he is a proud father of a baby girL Lt. Pat Mal­licui> Jr., is in San Francisca Lt. (jg) WilBam Darcy, wife and daus^ter. are enjoying the Hi­ami sunshine. Bill is taking* further training after seeing modi action while on armed guard duty. Jahn A. Kicacr reports his brother Fnak, '42, is a lieutenant (jg) in the Pacific Frank saw action in Iwo Jima. 
Joe Birt, who was 20 years old March 5. 1945, gave his. life Mardi 6, 1945, in the invasion of Iwo Jima. Joe had registered at N.D. but went into service before he got there. 
SySgt. Boh Grisanti, '40. writes from France. 
Lt. C. J. (Cr) Caldwell returned from the Pa­cific where he worked.with the submarine force. Cy helped form the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii. He roomed with Frank Leahy. 
Geerge Bdting, 34, will be ordained May 26. 1945. at St. John's Cathedral. He has attended St. Thomas Seminary at Denver. 
The annual commtmion breakfast in honor of Knnte Socfcae was held at St. John's Cathedral and the Hollendon Hotel. Dan HmMf was a ca­pable Umstmrn^er. Speakers were Hagh Deni ^ Adam WaU . Lt. (jg) Didc McBfona^e, Lt. C. J. CaldwdL Lt. C^l. Croft, and QoX- HVlng. head of (Heveland Ordnance, tmd Pat Canny. Movies of the highlights of the 1944 toothmll season were shown. 
Assistant Secretary Bill Doaley was in town May 3 to show the new NJX sound, color movie. The meeting was held at the Hotel (Heveland. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
with a representative group in attendance which included Major Robert Hackman of the U.S. Ma­rine Corps, who had just returned from the Pa­cific 
Delaware 

J. Fendall Fronin?, *37, 416 Gcddcs St , Wilminipton. Prcs.; John E. Reith, Ml. 1015 Park Place, Wilminelon, Sec 
Universal Notre Dame Night, April 9, found about 25 alumni with A\-ives and gals gathered at the du Pont Hotel. A pleasant evening of danc­ing and bull-sessions was enjoyed ly all. 
Don Killian is stationed temporarily in "Wil­mington again, spending a lot of time at Jackson Lab. 
Gcoree Scfalaudcckcr is slated for a transfer to Louis\'ilIe in the near future. 
Bill Murray was visited by his brother, Frank, now a captain in the Army Medical Corps. 
John E. Rcith 
Gogebic Range 

Victor F. Lemmer, '26, 424 Douglas Blvd.. Ironwof>d, Iklich., Se c 
Rev. John J. Rcddington, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, has been visiting and attending to business affairs at the Notre Dame property near Iron­wood, Mich. 
Robert O'Callaghan, Jr.. ex. '45, is now located at the Edward Hines Hospital, near Chicago. His father, Robert OXallaghan, ex. *18, and his mother, Kathleen O'Brien O'Callaghan (former St. Mary's student), were with him in Chicago when he was operated on recently for the second time, as the result of wounds received in France, He is paralyzed from the chest down, as the re­sult of being shot by a German sniper. Bob needs our prayers. 
Attorney Eugene R. Zinn, of Ironwood, is asso­ciated with the Ironwood "Hmes" of which the writer is the publisher. He is also associated with the Duluth "News-Tribune," Duluth. Minn., and acting as its Ironwood representative. 
George Nolan, of Ironwood (ex-Notre Dame golfer), has moved from Ironwood to AVausau, Wis., and he intends to take a wife. 
Edward F. Simonich. Ironwood, Notre Dame 
, football star of a few years ago, is now coaching at Central Catholic High at Butte, Mont. In his first basketball season this past winter, his team won the Big 16 championship of the entire state of Montana. 
William F. Wittenburg, of New Buffalo, Mich., is now the sui>er\'ising auditor under the Michigan Auditor General, at the state capital, Lansing. It is the most important auditing position in the department. 
George G. Ward, superintendent of the Pruden­tial Insurance Co., Chicago, 111., invites "all" Notre Dame men to visit him, and for once he will not do any talking. "Free accommodations in a busy city," says "Ward. 
Victor F. Lemmer 
Milwaukee 

Edward J. Rogers, *25, 709 N. 11th St., Prcs.; Roderick E. Sullivan, '24, 4432 N. Woodruff Ave., Sec 
The club had a meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night, at the Ambassador Hotel, with more than SO men present. 
Rev. lliomas Brcnnan, CS C was the speaker. 
He delivered the kind of address that the boys could have listened to for hours. 
We had as guests Rev. John Dcvcrs, CS.C . and Brother Kilian, C-S.C-, of Watertown, Wis., Rev. D. Wilbur of St. Francis Minor Seminary in Milwaukee, and Rcw Adrisn Race, '38. who was recently ordained and who introduced our guest speaker. 
The servicemen present included Lt. (jg) Wil­liam Schallcr, USNR, who -spoke about the Ijoys in service- He indicated that the obstacles met in warfare are often overcome on the basis of the realistic teaching received at Notre Dame. He re­cently received the Navy Cross for heroism. Also on hand were Major Tom Bossort, Lt. Tom Frost. and Sgt. Joe Sullivan. Our chairman, Charles O'Neill, handled the meeting in his usual smooth fashion. 
The new and the retirirg presidents both indi­cated that they have alwaj-s enjoyed our alumni meetings and feel that, because of the new alum­ni program, the future meetings will be more purposeful. The v.'riter gave the boys a pep talk about your four-point alumni program. 
The follov.-ing men v.-cre elected as officers for the coming year: president Edward Rogers; vice-presidents, William E. Brown, Eugene Golda­bini; treasurer, P. Dudley Pearson; secretary, Roderick Sulli^-an. Father Race, curate at St. John Cantius Parish, Milwaukee, was rppointed chaplain. ­
We in Milwaukee expect to have a very active year under the leadership of these splendid men. 
Paul Bmst 
New ITorJIr City 

James^F. Dwyer, '26, 49 Wall St., Prcs.; John A. Hoyt, Jr., '33, 2323 University Ave., Sec 
Jack Hoyt -\vrites that the new ofBcers of the club were incorrectly listed in the April "Alum­nus." Apologies, gentlemen, and may our earlier informant have a million potato bugs per plant. 
The speakers' toble at the UniTeiscd Noir* Dome Night meeting ei the New York City club, honoring Bishop CHora. Left to tight: Walter Kennedy, Iim Dwyer, Archbishop SpeUman. George Sokolsky, Bishop OUara and Msgr. Griifiths. (See story on this poge.) 
Notre Dame Club of Italy 
Pope Gives Blessing to All N. D. Men in Armed Forces 
"I have had the glorious privilege of paying my respects to the Holy Father on six occasions in the last 10 months," writes Major JiAn V. Hinkel, •29. 
"At a private audience once, I asked his bless­ing for all Notre Dame men ser\*ing in the armed forces of our countrj*. 
" 'Ah. Notre Dame,'" he exclaimed. " 'My dear-loved Notre Dame! With pleasure, my son! And I also impart my blessing to all their rel­atives and friends.' 
'*As I knelt at his feet, he imparted the papal blessing, through me. to all of our alumni and former students among America's fighting men. This was one of the greatest occasions of my life. Even now, as I write these lines months later, thoughts of the tremendous privilege that was mine on this occasion leave me very humble and grateful." 
The club has sent to the University. John writes, "on behalf of all our members, and as a small token of our alTection for the man who is Notre Dame's most distinguished alumnus, and for our university" a portrait of the Holy Father. The portrait, painted by a contemporary Italian artist, was used as a model for many thousands of cards bearing the Pope's likeness which have been distributed to Allied soldiers attending audiences in the Vatican. 
At a Universal Notre Dame observance on April 16, which marked the formal opening of the Catholic Center, Capt. Carl W. Doozan, *39, was elected president of the AFHQ Chapter. Notre Dame Club of Italy, to succeed John Hinkel. Cpl. Paul F. Klnding, '39. was named secretary. Also present at the meeting were Lt. Col. Thomas Qnalters, '28. Capt Andrew N. Galone, '27. Capt. John P. Laughna, '32. Lt. Patrick P. Bums, '33, Lt. H. C. Adam^ '42, WyO W. D. Mathias, '40. CpL J, R. Milliman. '43. and Pfc Paul Fisher. '43. Speakers at the gathering included Major General Daniel Noce and Lt. Col. John F. La Boon, former chairman of the board of athletics at Carnegie Tech and intimate of the late K. K. Roclcne. The colonel is an honorarj* member of the club. 
At noon on the same day members of the club, along with their fellow members of the St. Chris­topher' Holy Name Society of the AFHQ, (who also joined in the evening meeting) participated in a requiem Mass for the Allied war dead, and the Notre Dame men received Holy Communion especially for the Notre Dame men who had given their lives in this war. 
The duly elected and installed officers for the current year arc: president. James F. Dwyer; vice-presidents, Edwin Berkcry and Edward Beck-man ; secretary^ John A. Hoyt, Jr., and treas­urer. Wilfred B. Kirk. 
More from Hoyt: 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the club at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria on April 9 with a reception and meeting at which Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS-C , D.D.» bishop of Buffalo, was thn jjuest of honor. Approximately 250 members attended. 
George E. Sokolsky. columnist of the New York "Sun" was the chief speaker. Other speakers, in addition to Bishop O'Hara, were Most Rev. Francis 
J. Spcllman. D.D., archbishop of New York, Msgr-James H. Griffiths, chancellor of the Military Ordinariate, and J. Walter Kennedy, publicity director of the University. Jim Dwyer, presi­dent, presided. Martin Callagy was the chair-m:in in charge. 
Francis McAnaney visits often with Johnny Law. Frank recently left the Alien Property Custodian to co back into the general practice of law. Martin V. CallaKy. was recently ap­pointed a iudce in the Domestic Relations Court in New York. Any day in the New York office of the Alien Property Custodian you can run into Warren S. Fogel. who is on the legal staff, or 
J. Howard Haley, who heads up the real estate division. 
Greg Bice is now a lieutenant (jg) in the Mari­time Service and attends most of the local meet­ings. Bill Cronln, executive assistant to the Post-Master General, was in town and stopped in at the meeting. Bill is leaving Washington soon and expects to be back in New York before the summer ends. Cass Vance, is with Sperry Gyro­csope in Bronklvn and in his spare time rounds up the younger men and interests them in club activities. Eddie Tighe is back from Europe with OSS. is now back practicing law in New York. 
Jim Shells is now chief of the investigative unit of the Office of Legislative Services, Head­quarters. AAF.- Bill Reilly is now with the Corbin Company, direct mail advertising company here in New York. George Vergara, now out of the Navy, has resumed activities in the insurance field. Lt. Paul Lillis, USNR, was recently in town. Report has it that Paul has been awarded 'he Silver Star and the Purple Heart. 
Lt. Edward J. Hoyt last heard from in the Okinawa area, was in the original invasion of the Philippines and has been decorated several times in that theater. Joe and Flo McCarthy are now back in New York together again. Flo was with the WPB for several years in Washing­ton. 
Bill Cotter, former president of the Alumni Association, was recently made a Knight of St. Gregory and a Knight of Malta by Archbishop Spellman, taking the titles formerly held by the late Al Smith. 
PaciHc Ocean Area 
Lt. Walt PhUlip, USNR. '31, Pres.; Cpl. Wib MarshaU, Sec. 

In advance observance of Universal Notre Dame Nicht. a Communion-breakfast was held on Sunday. April S, at the Sacred Heart Acad­emy in Honolulu, where we were guests. A special 10 o'clock high Mass was sung for the club by Father Martin J. Forhan, Army chap­lain, and we all enjoyed a wonderful breakfast served by the nuns- They really treated us royally: had the dining room all decorated in blue and gold, and had a statue of Our Lady, beneath which w.ns a special N-D. monogram. 
After the breakfast Father Forhan and Mother Louise Henriette, our hostess, spoke; and Tora Fallon sang some solos and we all sang together —all the Notre Dame songs. Afterwards the Reverend Mother took us on a tour of the beautiful academy grounds, wherein a Lourdes grotto, like the one at Notre Dame, is one of the most imoressive spots. Mother suggested that we have outdoor benediction there sonw night in May for the club, and we are hoping to make plans accordingly. 
Present officers of the club are: president. L t Walt Phillip, USNR. taking the place of the recently-transferred 1st Lt. John Buckley, who had served the club so effectively; CpL Wib Marshall, secretary and treasurer, and Sgt. Al Gar>-, publicity director. Al Gary 
Philadelphia 
Harold Dnke, '30, 4030 N. Broad St., (Rad­cliff 6900, Hancock 3153} Pres.; Joieph F. Cattle, '41, 6302 Gardenia St., (German­town 0308) Sec. 

Our former scribblers, Joe Cattle and Jack RclHy. are toth off to the wars, so the old 4-Fer is bnck in harness for the duration 
New arrivals in town are Dick Roney and John Doyle, both '32. Our prexy. Hal Dake. recently had a happy reunion with his brother. Norm, *34, a Navy lieutenant, who had participated in the South Pacific invasion, and Charlie, *39. traffic control officer under Civil Aeronautics, recently returned from Labrador 
We managed to summon a quorum for Univer­sal Notre Dame Night, thereby keeping up the tradition in the place of the Night's birth. Con­sidering the war years et al-. we made a per­sonable showing. The roster included: Tom Byrne* Jr., Dick BlcClarc, Charlie Doogherty, Dan Yoong, Dan. Jr., '49, Jim O'Brien, Father Charies Maheney, CS.C., Frank Shapiro, Joe Blahmey, Hal Bake, WaU Ridley. Jim O'DonncIl. J. W. Krocger, Paal Howe, Conal Byrne, Cluriie Con­ley. Dick Roney, John Doyle, Gaylord Haas, Ed Lyons, John Barkart, Lt. CoL Dngald Jaclcsm, and John H. Neeson. Our guest list counted: SjSet. James Timlin. Father Thomas J^ Murphy, O.SJ'.C, Howard Willis, Clarence Carson and John J. Lawler. 
John Nceson told us how a few local lads and himself came to found the Universal Notre Dame Night tradition. Father Maboney stressed the necessity of alumni participation in parish af­fairs. Dan Yoang, recently returned from lodia. gave an enlightening personal insight of the cus­toms and philosophy of that country. Dan. Jr., now in the Navy,'was fortunately on leave and got home just in time to be with his dad and us. 
Hello to all of our men in the armed forces way out there from the few of us here. 
CUffProdeU 

Rhode Island 
John J. HcLaacklin. '34, Mcndon Rd^ CBH ­krUnd Hill. Pna.; RnMdl L. Bmt, tS, 4 N S. Hain St , Woonaoeket, See. 

The followini; story from the Frovidezice; 
R. I., "Journal" of Feb. 15, 1945. was relayed to the "Alumnus" by RCT. Haxli B. HacCaaler, 
C.S.C of Notre Dame: 
"Jehnnle McLaachlin'a swanky looking sleigh, which is faultlessly linished in blue and gold, the colors of Notre Dame University, aided materially in getting an expectant mother from her home on snDw..choked Kay Street, Cnmber-
Present on April 8 at the Commiuiion-braakfcBl el the Netr* Dam* dob oi th* Padfie area were, left to right first row: Walter Phillip. Paul Haimomi. lohn Bndler. Thomaa McKevitt. Middle row: William Collina. Jamas Clark*. John Sw**n*r. Falh*r MaitiB Forhan, Mother Louise Henriette. Jack Poultin. VHUiam K. Hanifin, AU>«t Gnzy. Last row: Edward O'Connor and guest Thomas Fallon. Charles Hares. Goerg* Rsk. VnUonghby Marshall. (See storf. this page.) 
land Hill", to "Woonsocket Hospital, yesterday afternoon. 
"McLaughlin, well known alumnus of Notre Dame, donated his sleigh and horse to Chief of Police William J. Boyle and Patrolman Odelin 
E. Istace of the Cumberland Police Department soon after they received word that Mrs. Anna Hishanetz. 24, -was in delicate condition. The horse-drawn vehicle went to the home at the west end of Kay Street. Later Mrs- Mishanetz, whose husband. John, is serving in the armed forces, was transferred from the sleigh to the warm police car on smooth Mendon Road. The trip to the hospital was made in jrood time." 
Roclr River Valley 
James E. Ba!es, *37, 315 Dixon Ave., Dixon, Ml., PITS.: John P. Lahcy, *2S, S24 N. Ot­tawa, Dixon* ni.. Sec. 
The club met on Universal Notre Dame Night, according to word from Joe Bittorf of Sterling. 
111. The Alumni Office has dispritched a runner to get the who and where of the session. 
Sf. Joseph Valley 
Eugene L. O'Brien, '35, 903 E. Jefferson Blvd.. Soath Bend, Pres.; John P. Donnel­ly, *39, Business Manager of Athletics, Notre Dame, Ind., Sec 
On Sunday, April 8. Approximately 50 members of the club attended the club's annual Rocknc Memorial Mass in Sorin Hall Chapel. Kcv. Joseph Powers, CS.C . said the Mass in the absence of Rev. Matthew Sdiumacher, CS.C , club chaplain. Breakfast followed in the University cafeteria, after which the club's combined annual meeting and Rockne Memorial program was held in the lounge of the Rocknc Memorial Building. The pro­gram was arranged by George Koirh, and Joe Bo-land, president presided. The following new direc­tors were unanimously elected for terms of three years each: William Broderick* Jerome Crowley, Albert Doyle, and John Mclntyre. 
The football coaching staff — Hugh Dcvore, Jake Kline, Ken Stilley, Harry Jacunski, Gene Ronzani, and Walter Ziemfaa — were introduced and each responded with a few words. Father William Carey, CS.C , told several brief anec­dotes based on his personal experiences with Rockne. The main spanker was Chet Grant, for­mer backfield coach, who gave an interesting account of his associations with Rockne when Rock was coach and Chet was a student at Notre Dame. 
After the meeting the members visited the graves of Knnte Rodtne, George Kcogan, and John Nidiolson, avbere prayers were recited for the repose of their souls. 
TTie directors on April 10 elected the following officers for the yearj honorary president, John J. O'Brien; chaplain. Rev- Eugene Burke. CS.C ; president. Eugene O'Brien; vice-president. Rich­ard Kaczmarek; secretary, John P. Donnelly; treasurer. Jerome CrowJey-* 
John P. Donnelb' 
Sf. Louis 
Jcttmie C. Arnold, '24, 7409 Arlington St., Riduaond Heistits, Pres.; Fred C Weber, Jr., '3€, CS39 University Drive, Se c 
Tlje club observed Universal Notre Dame Night with its first Honte Carlo party. So successful was the venture, writes Fred Weber, secretary, tbat a Monte Carlo party will probably be a part of the club program each year henceforth. Fred will be glad to supply details to any club officers interested. Forty members and 22 guests, plus female adornment for each, attended. 
The party was conducted by a committee con­sisting of Roland Dames, chairman; Frank Amato, Bill Fresdti, Bad Haberkem, Ji a HUt Frank Tally, Paul Amidd and Dick Klohr. Jalu Corley was one of the most successful attendants. 
A club roster, compiled by Frank Amafo after months of painstaking work, was printed in book­let form in March. Included are each man's name, address (home and business), telephone number (home and business), occupation and graduating class at Notre Dame. 
Toledo 
Ben Kesting and Joe Wetli, helping to operate the fifth annual Mother's Bay Communion-Breakfast for the Holy Name Society of Sacred Heart Church. Toledo, presented the closest ap­proach of late to a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo. Father Frank Goodall, C.S.C., of the University, spoke after the breakfast and showed the new color-sound movie of the campus. Ben and Joe also spoke. 
Tulsa 
Edward F. Moran, *17, 2233 E. 30th St., Pres.; John F. Devlin, '42, 1333 S. Newport, Sec 
Back in November of last year we had a luncheon party at which time plans were made for our annual Christmas dance. At this time I was succeeded as president by Eldgar F. Moran; the new vice-president was Frank J. Reidy; secre­tary, John F. Devlin; treasurer, J. E. Peter­sdunidt. Our annual dance was held the evening of Dec 23 at the Tulsa Hotel and there were over 250 couples in attendance. J. A. La For­tune and Carl J. Senger were co-chairmen for the dance and' it turned out to be one of ihe finest we have had. 
In April. J. A. La Fortune and members of the club were hosts at an informs! dinner for 
J. Arthur Haley of the University. Art showed us the new pictures of the University that had been taken, and it was very entertaining. 
William J. Sherry is laying plans now for the coming ordination of Clarence R. Darhin.* "Die club is planning on holding a luncheon at the Tulsa Club after Father Durbin celebrates his First Mass, for all members of the club and the clergy. This is planned as being one of the outstanding Catholic events of the season and one of which this club is quite proud to be a part of since this is the first boy from our club that has been ordained. 
R. H. Siegfried 
Twin Cities 
Clarence G. laemandt, ex. '32, 831 Nartli Western Bank BIdr., BCnneapolis, Prea^; Ed Kridc, Sec 
Our Universal Notre Daroe Night brou^t out hibernating N.D. fellows, and Jim Anutxwmt^m suggestions met friendly reception, as th ^ should. 
The N.D. Club of Minnesota, one of the very first alumni clubs in existence, is wholly in ac­cord with your intent in seeking to charter all 
N.D. clubs. 
Discussion of the balance of Jim's program brought forth the following committees: Member­ship. J. Hallman, Al Sebcsta; Vocational, LavU Rcsan; Prospective Student Program. Jack D^le; finance, Ike Hoes; Catholic Leadership, 
A. W. BUcMaUen. 
Hie election resulted in the selection of the old officers, viz., C G. Liemandt, president; R. J. Bfadden, vice-president; E. C. Krick, secretary-treasurer. 
Uncle Sam still likes the looks of N.D. guys up here: Amie Klein and Bob Tegeder. are the latest. A bit of rummaging is still being done for a few others as well. 
As you know, our club has lost several of its members the past year, Thomas W. Green* John Xandenberg and Joe Schrocder having passed away. 
E. C. Krick 
Washington^ D. C. 
Bernard E. Loshboogh, '29, 5610 Colorado Ave., N.W., Pres.; George C. Howard. Jr., '38, 70X7 Cbelton Rd., Bethesda, Md., Sec 
Club members with their families and friends, together with high school students and their parents, gathered in the Carlton Hotel on May II to hear Col. Ray Kelly, '13, former national commander of the American Legion, tell of his trip through the Pacific war zones and to see the new campus movie. Bill Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, had brought the film to Wash­ington. Bill discussed the current status of the University and answered numerous questions from the floor, following the picture. 
Hemic Loshbangh, president, presided at the meeting, and George Howard, secretary, was master of ceremonies. George arranged for two showings of the picture at the local St. John's College, a high school operated by the Christian Brothers, and Father Christopher O'Toole, CS.C., superior of Holy Cross College, arranged two showings in the college, one for the priests. Brothers, Sisters, and seminarians and the other specially for Dr. Albert F. Zahzn, '83, of Wash­ington, D- C . whose pioneer work in aeronautics at Notre Dame is mentioned prominently in the film. 
Western Pennsylvania 
WiUiam H. H. Ginder. Jr., '31, 168 Broad­way Dr., Pittsburgh 10, R. D. 6, Pres.; Rudy Cmkovic, *34, 820 E Ohio St., Pittsburgh 12, 
Sec 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a party at the King Edward Dining Room with nearly 30 in attendance. Rev. Vincent Bren­nan, '32, assistant pastor at Epiphany Church, held a brief memorial service for the alumni killed in action. 
The annual business meeting resulted in the election of Bill Ginder, '31, ^president; H. Carl Link, '35, vice-president; John B. Remrdon, '22, re-elected treasurer; and Rudy Cmkovic, '34, sec­retary. 
Among those in attendance were BiU Snehr, Dr. Dick OToole, John BlcHahon. BiU BfagaraU, Jahn McSorley, Jade Sheedy, J. L. and Tom Garvey, Paol A Harman, Fritz Wilson, Earl Brieger, Gene Coyne and Sgt. Bob Baty« The lat­ter, a veteran of 47 months service in the CBI theater of operations, came down from Deshon Army Hospital in Butler. 
On May 7 the club held the first of its regular monthly meetings at the F t FJtt Hotel with BiU Dooley, "Alumnus" editor, as honorary guest. Bill was the hit of the evening with the recently-completed technicolor film of the University. He dubbed in the voice when the sound track refused to function. Bill also briefed us on the Univer­

sity's program o£ employment for returnint; vet­erans, stressing the importance of club coopera­tion. Jirfin McMahon, *28, was the unanimous choice for the club's veteran committee. 
Designed by President Ginder as an experiment, the first such meeting was an overwhelming suc­cess with about 35 turning out, (Bill swears that the pretzels and (?) were definitely not an in­ducement.) 
Rev. J. H Wilson, C.S-C,, '32, on a junket through Pennsylvania, dropped in to say a few words. Also present were Bill Rocksnstein. *34. now with the local office of the FBI, BUI Suehr* Bob Fnlton, Noel AfacCaro'* Fritz Wilson, Carl Link, Bi!l Steitz, Earl Briefer, John Briley, Leo Vozel, Tom Conroy, Joe Breig, Huph GallaRhsr. CieorKe KinKsley, Norb Mizerski, John McGovem, Jchn Reardon, Ed AfcLcnnon, John Gitkowski, John Roney, Jim Carey, Al Daschbadi, Hueh Mc* Bride, Hnglt Murphy and Sgt. Bob Baty. And if I've missed any of you fellows, forgive me. for­give me. Jchn Patterson* father of John, '41. who has been doing a bang-up job as secretary pro-tem of '41, was a welcome guest. 
Noel MacCarrj*, *J1, who saw three years serv­ice with the Army, is now staff correspondent with the local bureau of the International News Service. Noel and I (United Press—plug) have been covering the local boxing shows the past winter but learned only recently we were fellow alumni. 
Service shorts: Lt, John Pavlick, USNR '34, 
•Was home recently after a voyage to "Wales and the continent. John had a reunion with Paul Leko, ex. '35. in Brussels. . . . Paul McArdle, '39. is stationed in Calcutta . . - the four O'Tooles— Maj. Larry. '36. Sgt. John, '25, Set. Bill, '34. and Maj. Charles, '23. are in Germany . . . Lt. Dick A'Heam is in Italy . . . Lt. Joe Clark, ex. '34, USNR. has been transferred, to Monterey, Calif. . . . Lt. Stanley Adamonis, '40. USNR, is now in his 22nd month of overseas duty on an LST . . . Sgt. Al Felts, '39, is presently stationed at Camp Wheeler, Ga- . . . the Dillon brothers—Na\'y Lt-John and Army Lt. Charles—are in the Pacific area. 
Rody Cmkovic 

Wright and Patterson Field 
The club, newly formed, met on Universal Notre Dame Ni^ht, with 13 persons, rounded up under the direction of Capl. Jim C:nII, '41, pre5ent.Dinner. followed by rn old-fashioned bull session, occupied the evening, according to a letter from Major Hsrry Francis, '30. The club will meet on the second Tuesday of each month at Suttmiller's Restaurrnt. 1203 Shaw Ave.. Dayton. Major F. C. Frechette, Paterson Field chaplain, is chaplain of the Notre Dame sroup. 
Present at the April 9 session were: Capt. J. 
M. HufnaKcl, '40. C=pt. Maurice Garbnd. '34, Capt. Gird Oiiveros, '41, Capt. J. H. Carell. '41. Capt. R. E. Connclb-, '40. Lt. (JK) Frank O'Con­ncll, '41 (who was to te married in Baltimore on Mcy 5). Ens. S::nfaid Warshawsky. '44, Set. Carl McHuKh. '41. Lt. D. L. McDowell. '41, Major 
H. H. Francis, '30. Frank C. Blisins, '22. James 
C. R. Clark. '44. and Robert Leonard, '41. 
N. D. Men Liberated in Philippine islands 
Following is the list of Notre Dame men from the far off Fhil'ppines whom SfSgt. Daniel C. Sullivan, *37 either met personally or learned about with the help of Alike Brias, a classmate, whom he ran into upon his landing with the 11th Air-borne Division. 
A. Rox-.s, '23. E. R3X33, '33. and E. (Mike) Brias, '37: These three with their families had fortunately evacuated Manila last September and moved to the country where the Roxas brothers own a large sugar estate near . -. \yhich the beachhead was established, to the delight of these Notre Dame men whose hops for the return of America had never once dwindled. Mike, Brias has been working with the Roxas since his grada­tion. . 
L. Melian, '30, and E. Melian, '31: The Melian brothers managed to cross the lines after some two weeks of heing under constant fire, and 
Notre Dame alumni in Western PennsylTonia and their friends had their onnual retreat on Feb. 2-4 at St Paul's Retreat House. Pittsbiurgh. Present were, lell to right first row: Father Linus Monohan, CJ>., retreat master; Gene Coyne. C. Pappert Budy CmkoTie, Frits VtOlson. John Briley. Judge Hugh Boyle and Father AUred Wearer. CJM retreat director. Second row: I. H. Snyder. John McCague. ack Sheedy. Ed NebeL Hugh Gallagher. Dr. Dick O'Toole. Leo Vogel. lohn McMohon and Carl Ualc Rear row: Tom Dixon. Earl Brieger. Don Martin. J. J. Corrigan. F. J. Larro. E. J. Hol­leran. C. V. Brusco. C. A, Petraglia and P. M. Yeneral. 
escaped devastmted Manila with minor shrapnel wounds, finally arriving at the Roxas estate. 
J, Zabcl^ '25. and A. ZobclL '24: lliese brothen and their families were liberated from their own Japanese held estate about 15 miles south of the Roxas* lands by a daring commando raid whidi picked them up and brought them back to joia their cousins, the Roxas. J* Zobel was a major in the Philippine Army, having participated in the Bataan campaign, and is now back in the ranks of the USAFFE. 
Rer. FatlMr Vincent CaUpanr, M.A. '23: Parish priest of a town some miles away from the beach­head. Father Catapang evaded the Jaxumese garrison in his town and made his way towards the liberation forces upon learning of the landing. 
The number of Notre Dame men wnsm fete had thus reunited in a little Filipino town was increased a few days later by the arri^ral r,i Lt. <j.ff.) Babert Cronin, MO, who upon laadin? in­quired from a town resident whether by Xiny chance there were any Notre Dame men ifi town and got the surprise of his life to learn that he had come to the right place to look fur them. 
Shortly after the liberation of Manila. Ifiko Brias entered the city and was able to gather some more information of fellow alumni who had miraculously escaped although each one lisd his own horrible tale to tell> 
Gonzala Valdes, '35, the Gonzalez brothers, Jake, '22. Ralph. '22, Tony, '25, and R. Alanan, Jr., '38. are among those whom Mike is glad to be able to report safe and sound. 
Lt. Joe Dcmpaey, '33, met and visited with E. Roxas in Manila shortly after liberation of that city. 
Still unheard from in a southern island, al­though presumably liberated upon the recent land­ing of American forces in that district is Vicente Gamdiarri, '40, who on his graduation married Cbmptroller Frank Lloyd*» daughter, Kathleen. [The Gurucharris are now known to be safe and well.—Eds.] 
ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Pase 10) 

guard John Mastrangelo, by a 13-7 score. At this writing the prospects for the fall are as good as they should be, under wartime conditions. Seven lettermen are fairly certain of being on hand. These are center Frank Szymanski; guards Fred Rovai and John Mastrang^elo; tackle Pete Berezny; ends Bob Skoglnnd and Bill O'Connor; and ' quarterback Frank Dancewicz. There is a possibility that Marty Wendell, fullback, who is a member of the Naval KOTC, may also be back. Several newcomers showed to advan­tage during the spring workouts. Out­standing among them was 18-year-old Fred Sdmiid, a 215-pound fullback from Trenton, N. J. George Katterman, of Cincinnati, one of Notre Dame's basket­ball stars, played no. 1 quarterback dar­ing the drills, and may win the regular job from Dancewicz. He is a fine passer, and great defensive player. Best of the linemen was John Fallon, a 210-ponhd guard, from Alton, 111. Fallon was on the squad last year as a tackle, but did not see much' action. 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss llieresa Josephine Murray and William T. Lyoni, '32. 
Hiss Helen Kathryn Eayser and Cpl. Philip Arnhelter. AAF, '35. 
Miss Catherine E. Brown and Richard M. Gerl, •38. 
Miss Jane Cleary and Lt. Anthony M. Bernard, USNR, '40. 
Miss Betty Ann Redbere and S/S^t Joseph J. McCaCeiy, Jr.. ex. '42. 
Miss Regina Adams and Ens. Charles D. Lnn­deitan. ex. '45. 
Marriages 
Miss Marie Antoinette Doyle and Joseph P. Backc, '25, Brooklyn, N. Y.. May 30. 
Miss Mary Lynch and Charles W. Martin, '27, Pittsbursh, Fa., Dec 28. 
Hiss Bel^ecca August and Capt. Jacob Halperin, '28, Chicago, March 27. 
Hiss Anne Elizabeth Donnelly and Capt. Thom­as E. Oakea, AAF, '31, Bloomfield Hills. 3Iicfa.. Jan. 3. 
Hiss Helen Elizabeth Fry and S/Sgt. John B. Beynr, '3S, South Bend, Hay 3. 
Hiss Hary Ann Ward and Raymond J. Linder, ex. '35, New York City. April 2.' 
Hiss Harcella Rose Henebry and William J. O'Ceanar, '35, Plainfield, III., April 7. 
Hiss Jill I*na Fry and 1st Lt. Vincent T, Car-ran, AAF, '36, Colchester, Essex, England. March 24. 
Miss Catherine Haney and Thomas Delker, '37. South Bend, Hay 5. 
Hiss Besse lyree and Kenneth C. Lattimer, '37. St Louis. Harch 17. 
Hiss Edith Hartine and Lt. Darid A. Gelber, '39, Williamsburg, Va., April 29. 
Hiss Phyllis Ann Strahle and Lt. CoL Joseph B. Haarman. Jr., AAF, '39. Chattanooga, Tenn., May 24. 
Hiss Hargaret Livesey and Tech Rep. Al M. '39. Sydney, Australia, Jan. 18. 
Hiss Dorothy HcGibbon and William H. Ricke, ex. '39, Notre Dame, April 14. 
Hiss Hary Cecelia Schubert and Capt. Bernard 
F. Hiss, '40, Sontfa Bend. April 21. . i 
Hiss Virginia Riple and Lt. John B. Willmann, TTSNR, '40, Williamsport, Pa.. April 30. 
Hiss Charita HeCann and Lt. Walter W. Fccaa, nSNB, New Kochelle, N. V., April 12. 
Hiss Elizabetfa Hessner and Lt. (JE) Clarence 
W. Harvurit, '41, Houghton. Hich., March 17. 
Hiss Anne Grimes and Lt. Erwin J. Mooney, Jr.. USMR. '41, Philadelphia, Hay 6. 
Miss Betty Lee Barrett and Lt. J-hn J. Garrey, USNR. '42, Larchmont, N. Y.. March 22. 
Miss Mary Frances Kaufman and Ens* Leon J. Livingston, ex. '42, Dallas, Tex., Jan. 21. 
Miss Katherine Rita Wbelan and FIay< F. Richards. '42, Hartford, Conn., May 19. 
Hiss Dorothy White and Lt. (jg) Charles J. BnUer, '43. South Bend, April 21. 
Miss Hary Ann HcNamara and Ens. JaBMS J. Byrne. '43, Detroit, Harch 14. 
Miss Hargaret Olson and Lt. Neil C Snyder, USMC. ex. '44. South Bend, April 28. 
Miss Barbara Bolinger and Pvt. V. Eagtae TrinUey, ex. '44, Notre Dame, April 26. 
Miss Mary Margaret HcNellis and Ens. WflUaa 
L. Rich, ex. '45, Indianapolis, Ind., Hay 26. . 
Miss Kathryn Jean Weaver and Lt. Jsaepli K. Dwyer. USMC, ex. '45, South Bend, April 14. 
Hiss Henrica Joan Zarembka and CpL WiUaai 
J. Wishing, ex. '45. South Bend, Hay. 12. 
Miss Mary Alice Hamblen and ScaMen 1/c James A. Harris, ex. '46. South Bend, Hay 2. 
Hiss Julia Ann Smith and Lt. Joseph P. War­der, USUC, ex. '46, Notre Dame, Hay 26. 
Hiss Lucille Zimmer and Lt. ftohert C. Me-Carthy; USHC, ex. '4^, South Bend, April 27. 
Births 
Dr. and Mrs. Charles E. Gatk, ex. '25, an­nounce the birth of Jeannette Irene, April 2. 
Hr. and Mrs. William A. Rcisert, ex. '30, an­nounce the birth of Hary Rita, Hay 26. 
Hr. and Mrs. Hichacl F. Wiedl. '34. announce the birth of Rosemary. Harch 13. 
Hr. and Hrs. Alhcrt L. Vittcr. '35, announce the birth of Albert L., HI, Feb. 22. 
Lt. and Hrs. WiOiam B. Brano, USNR. '37. an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Harch.29. 
Mr. and Hrs. Loais Hickey, '37, announce the birth of a son, April 30. 
Dr. and Hrs. Frank R. Kdly, Jr., '39, an­nounce the birth of Frank R., HI. Feb. 17. 
Lt. and Hrs. James V. Cawiey, USNB, '40, an­nounce the birth of Hary Elizabeth.** April 10. 
Capt. and Hrs. James P. Hetsfer, '40. an­nounce the birth of Kathryn Harguerite. XI. May 12. 
Hr. and Hrs. John L. Joyce, '41. annonnee the birth of Allida Leslie, Hay 3. 
Hr. and Hrs. Geatge J. Basaas, '41. annooaee the birth of a daughter. 
Lt. and Hrs. -Charles R. Gerard, '41, annoonee . the birth of a son. 
S/Sgt. and Hrs. Edward A. Shevlaad, '41, an­nounce the birth of a son. Harch 16. 
Lt. and Hrs. Richard G. Heckman. '42, an­nounce the birth of Hichael R., April 20. 
Lt (jg) and Hrs. Vincent Sbtt, '42, announce the birth of Philip Hichael. Harch 19. 
Lt. and Hrs. noma s J. Walker. USNR. '42. announce the birth. Hay 10, of a son, Frank C. n , grandson of Frank C Walker, '09. ' 
Hr. and Hrs. Ghaiies E. Coaney, '43, announce the birth of Hargaret Helene, Harch 7. 
Lt. (jg) and Hrs. William B. Hiddendorf, '43, annoonee the birth of Barbara Ann, Harch 25. 
Deaths 
Hsn r D. Faxon, S2. Highland. HI., a student at Notre Dame in 1870-'76, died on Hay 2. Re­tired rince 1930, he had been Chicago representa­tive of the Botany Worsted Mills. A son and two danshters survive him. 
Slwnuji Steele, Litt.B. ^97, LL.B. '99, professor of law in Loyola University, Chicago, eince 1920. died on April 18. He was 67 years old and had long been a faithful member of the Alumni Asao­ciatiffli. 
Mr. Ste ^ taught at Notre Dame from 1902 to 1908, then moved to St. Louis University. wh«e he was a, professor of law from 1908 until 1920. He was the author of two law books. "Steele on Agency" and "Cases on Equity," and he con­txibnted numerous articles to legal publications. Last fall he was appointed OPA hearing com­missioner in Chicago. 
Surviving Hr. Steele are two sisters and a brother. 
Lsais E. Best. Hilwaokee, a student at Notre Dame in the early l»00's. died in July, 1944. ac­cording to a note which just reached the Alumni Office. His wife's death followed in Harch. 1945. 
KcT. George E. Gamdey, A.B. '04. died on April 13 in St. Hary's HMpital, Hilwaukee, where he had leaded since his retirement in 1940. 
Bom in Watertown. Wis., on Harch 8. 1877, Father Gormley was a former member of St. Ber­nard's parish there of which Rev. Patrick Hag­gerty. CS.C., is now pastor and Father George Heagfaer. C.S.C.. is ^ assistant pastor. Father Gormley attended Sacred Heart College, Water­town, before be came to Notre Dame^ He was or­dained in 1907 following his theology at St. Frands Seminary, Hilwaukee. 
Father Gormley was assistant pastor of St James Church. Kenosha, Wis., before he was ap­pointed to the pastorate of S t Hary's Church, Hales Comers. Wis., where he remained until he became chaplain of S t Joseph's Hospital, Beaver Dam, Wis., in 1940. A few months after accept­ing this latest post he retired because of poor health. 
Bar. William A. Ckrey. C.S.C was the Uni­vcrnty's representative at Father Gormley's fn­neral. Banal was in Watertown, following the 

Mass in Hales Corners and special services in 
Watertown. 
Surviving Father C^ormley are a brother, Iffil-Uam, and a sister. Sister Leonore, of the Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, San Jose, Calif. 
James T* Kecffe, '07. North Platte, Nebr.. died there on Hay 8 after a brief illness. 
After receiving his Ph.B. from Notre Bame, Mr. Keeffe was graduated in law at the University of Iowa and began practicing in North Platte. With the exception of his period of service in World War I he had lived in North Platte ever since, serving as both county attorney and city attorney and, for 25 years, as attorney for the Union Pa­ci5c railroad. 
Mr. Keeffe is survived by his wife, two sons, and a danghter. his mother, a brother, and three sisters. 
John J. Don, '24, Cleveland, brother of Wil­liam H. Dore, '30, died suddenly from a heart attack on April 12. A foreign commerce student at Notre Dame he made three trips to the Orient, arranged by Father (now Bishop) John F. O'Hara, CS.C., then dean of the College of Commerce. John and his wife were later married by Father O'Hara. 
Engaged in the brokerage business. John was associated with the Stranhahn-Harris Co., in Clevaland and was one of the foremost members of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. His wife and his mother, in addition to his brother, sur­vive him. 
JoknA . Smith. '29, Chicago, brother of Wil­liam J. Smith, '36, died in Chicago on March 13. 
Less than a year before his death, John, a cer­tified public accountant, had opened at 231 S. La Salle St., Chicago, an office for the general prac­tice of accounting and federal taxes. Earlier he was associated with the public accounting firms of Haslcins and Sells and George Rossetter & Co.. and was an instructor in accounting at Loyola University. Chicaga 
Surviving John are his wife and four children. 
John Edward Crockett, ex. '32, Cleveland, brother of Harrison Crockett, ex. '22. South Bend, and brother-in-law of Charles "Chile" Walsh, ex. '28, Cleveland, died suddenly from a heart attack on March 30. 
Ed was bom in South Bend, and was buried there following a funeral Mass in St. Patrick's Church. He is survived by his wife and three children, his mother, his brother and two sisters. 
Rokert H. HeiUeJohn, '3-1, Hanan-a. Wis., died on March 13, 1945, according to incomplete in­formation reaching the Alumni Office. 
ITie "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to: Paol B. Martin, '09, on the death of his wife; to AiHur, 'IS, Frank, '15, Jamea, '23. and Fred. '32, Carmody, on the death of their father: to Pnf, Lawrence F. '29, and Maarice F. '41, Staader, on the death of their father: to Rev. Thomas B. Carran, C.S.C.'. '37, on the death of his mother; to Jahii Andenon. '31, on the death of his father; to Allan M. CoDinK ex. '34. on the death of his father; to 1st Lt. Robert G. Sanford. '40, on the death of his mother; to Ralph Carabasi, '42, on the death of his father. 
PERSONALS 
1900-04 ^"^^ ^- P"><*«r> '0<> Mo>­
cer Bnildinc, ElUiart, lad. 
TRUSTEES HEAD CHARITIES 

Edward J. Doyle and Byron V. Kanaky. '04, 
members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the 
University, are the new president and vice-
president, respectively, of the Catholic Charities' 
of Chicago, as announced by Most Rev. Samud 
Stritch. archbishop. 
1905-09 ^'^-"^o*- £• Bnrfca, CS.C, '07, Nolf. D>m«. In i 
Bernard S. Fahy is president of the Catholic Layman's Association of Georgia. 
A letter from Mexico should prove interesting to those having friends south of the. border. It was written by Pantalran Oreiee CaaaiCBa. Guadalajara. Ja., Mexico.: ". . . Perhaps yoa would be interested in knowing what has hap­pened to some of the Notre Dame students who were my schoolmates. Eraeflta Mettle is Urinff here in the city; Hanacl G. QecTCda died lait year from liver trouble; Francisce Meriet, broth­er of Emesta, died some ten years ago; Jeae Lab Rcqnena is living in Mexico City; Gvatave Tre-Tino is working with the Mexican Telegraph and Telephone Co.; Francisco Garxs Niete Is llvinff in Monterrey and is the owner of the Itorblde Hotel; his brother, Alfredo, is also a hotel owner in Monterrey: Jorje Wolffis working as general manager of the Mexico City branch of the Com­pania Fundidora de Fierro y Acero de Monterrey; and Manuel Mnriel died about two years aga His brothers are living in San Luis PotosL" 
1913 ^*'*' ^ Byrne, UniTarsity Li­brary, Nbtre Dam*, IncL 
Bill Cotter, counsel for the Union Carbide and Carbon Corp., N.Y.C., is chairman of the New York County War Finance Committee. The New York County organization is responsible for rais­ing the bulk of New York State's Seventh War Loan quota of $3,959,000,000. 
1914 P'*ok H. Hayes, 642 TUri 
• ^ A»e.. Chnla VUta, CaUf. 
Her. Salratore FaneOi, C.3.C.. assistant pastor, St. Joseph's Church. South Bend, was chairman in St. Joseph and Elkhart counties of the nation­wide drive for Italian relief. The appointment was made by Host Rer. John F. Nel^ bishop of F t Wayne. 
Frank Hayes, whose penchant for hard work took him to California to avoid some of the mid­west temptations, couldn't resist the real estate field in that fertile' area, and is back on the doe­tor's list again with a slight heart condition. The Alumni Fund, which is the modem' successful out­growth of the Living Endowment which Frank tried to establish in the association 15 years ago, joins the rest of the class and the association In extending wishes for a fast and full recovery* . 
A favorite old-timer of young missionaries and a silver-star man of the Congregation of Holy Cross is Father Maurice Norcfcaeer. who is now finishing his twenty-third year in Bengal. India. 
191 5 -'*>»'* ^- Sanford, 5236 N. Lukowood Are., Chicago, IlL 
Announcement of the promotion of CoL Fwsl l 
G. Lenihan. commandant, Norfolk Army Base, from lieutenant colonel, was recently mnde at the Norfolk Army Base, HRPE, Norfolk, Va. 
After serving in World War I. Emmett re­entered the Army in May, 1942, and was assigned to the Seattle Port of Embarkation as personnd officer. His brilliance in the admlnlstratzTe field qniekly led him to asagnment m the OOee at Om Chief of •ttrntafOitaOaa. Washinstm. DL C when be was In dtarge <d (he Field Samr Tem^ mr­veying'transportation Installatioss. ' 
Coins to Hampton Boads Poet of Baharfcatiaa in December 1943, he was made dcpntr hast eeai­mandant, Norfolk Army Base; HRPE, Norfolk. Va., in May. 1944. and then to b« in November, 1944. 
COL EMIIER G. IfNiHAir, 15 
Emmett is a member of th» American Ictfoil national defense committee, and 'waa past COB­mander of American Legion Poet No. I. Tialila Wash., his home atj. He is the father of thne diildren. the oldest of whom, Eimaett; Jr., ex. '42, is a lieutenant in the Navy. 
Charife FfaUgaa has his oeenpatioa listed aa wool buyer and his home address as Boisew Idaha on a card received from Fnak NcHid. '23. 
Dr. Gcarge Shustcr. '15, president of Hunter Collese. N.T.C.. has beoi named to sneeeed.the late Rt. Rer. George Johnson as viee^resadent of the American Association for an Intematkaal Office of Education. 
Jae Stadc is director of the Midilgan State College rauflenm. 
191 A Gro w F. MiUar. 610 WUconsia 
• ' •" AT*. Racinab Wia. Attorney Eauactt ManWind. Security BIdr. Long Beach, Calif., was a welcome visitor to the campus In May, on his way heck from a visit to Washington, D. C Emmett had not seen the campus since 1920. .'^* A 'V-raail from Jee McIeaihHn tagged him aa 
being a major, somewhere in Fiance with the Army. 
191 7 B. -1. VoU. 206 E. Tmtt St., 
' ' SoathBand, lad. 
Ed Meraa is confined to lus home In ^ilsa. Okla.. 2233 K 30th. after several months in the hospital. Here's a chance for some of' that 17 spirit to travel by three-cent stamp to advantace. 
Jaha HUbr. plant manager in ld» Ancdes for the U. S. Rubber Co., was a recent viatcs in Notre Dame and South Bend territory. >craie Veil. local travelers' burean tor the class, reports that John's son. John, Jr., was killed in Om enidi of a B-I7 over Germany in Deconber, 1944. C6n­firmatlon was received In AprU. 
1918 ^"^^ ^ Lemmer, 901 Lake Sbore Drive, Etcanaba, Mich. 
Lt. Cadr. Jack MeaEher has been appointed post-war head coach for Miami in the new All-America foothall conference. 
1920 ^^o B- ^"d' 1<>12 Black Bid?., 
' '* " Los Angeles, Calif. 
Slip Maditan recently hcnd coach at the Uni­versity of Iowa, has a new job as regional direc­tor (northern California) of the Smaller War Plants Ckirp. 
199 9 Gerald Ashe, 19 Dorking Road, ' '* * Rochester, N. Y. 
From Kid Adie: 
Ex-U. S. Senator D. Worth Clark of Idaho, who lost an exceptionally close race for renomina­tion in the Idaho primaries some months ego, writes to tell us that the life of a private citizen is by no means unattractive. Among other things he says in his letter: 
"Of course, no one likes to get beat but when once the initial shock is gone it is a tremendous relief to te just a private citizen again. I am practicing law both in Idaho and in "Washington, my law partner here being Tom Corcoran. So far it has been very interesting and* needless to say, I am enjoying it." We, of course, wish Worth lots of success in his new work. 
Clinton Lints of Rochester is a civilian em­
ployee of U.S. Army Ordnance, with headquar­
ters at Kodak Park, Rochester. It was only re­
cently that we learned Clint is now a husband-
Dan Yoauff has returned to this country from 
India, where he hnd gone on business. We do not 
know if his stay here is temporary or permanent. 
Maxk Foote, who has been at the Hotel Stevens, Chicago, for the past year, was still there accord­ing to last reports, although his employer, S. A. Healy, Contractors, have sold their interests in the Stevens. 
Capt. Eocene Kennedy of the U.S. Army re­turned from India a short time ago. 
Congratulations to our old friend. Doc Hughes of the Chicago Htle and Trust Co.. who recently received a fine promotion from his company. Doc is now one of the important department heads. 
John Haetber*s appointment to assistant man­ager of the industrial divisions in the General Electric Co., Schenectady, was announced late in April. John has been with GE ever ^ince his graduation. Bndc Shaw has been appointed head football coach at the University of California, as you've read in numerous other spots. 
192 4 •'- F- Hayes, 393 - 7th Ave., ^ Room 1515, New York City. 
Joe Berarman, now in the tire business in Cali­fornia, visited in mid-M^rch with his brother. Alfred (Datcfa) Berrman, '15, confined to a Fort Wayne, Ind., sanitarium for 22 yerrs. Earle Hur­ley, Chicago, an assistant U. S. attorney since 1935 and head of the criminal division since 1940, resigned in May to become a partner in the law firm of Ryan, Condon & Livingston, Chicago­
109 5 *'°^ ^* Hurley, AFD, American Red Cross, Camp Patrick Henry, Vir^nia. 
Stationed in Cleveland, Lt. Ray Cunnineham is a na\-y industrial incentive ofScer. In Cincinnati in March he and Bill Castellini, *22. worked to­gether in organizing a show. Bemie MacNab, 
Rev. Francis J. Boland, CS.C , *18, former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, is a lieutenant in the USN R and chaplain aboard a ship in the Pacific 
Portland. Ore. has moved his insurance agency to a new location, 625 Failing Bldg. 
The Alumni Office heard just recently that Vince Harrinffton was decorated posthumously for the manner in which he had handled his overseas assignment and that his wife and two daughters went to Washington for the award. They are now living in Washington­
192 6 ^**^'^>^ ^' L«min«r, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 
You'll read elsewhere in this issue of the death of Biff Mac McEUicott—the first *26 death amonff those serving in the armed forces in World War 
II. Much of the information about Mac was sent is by Johnny Toohy, at Mrs. McE'Hgott's request. The class extends its heartfelt sympathy and the r.ssurance of many prryers. 
It's always nice to note a familiar face on the campus . . . here for a few hours* visit in late March was John Breen, vice-president of the Lum­bermens Mutual Casualty Company. Chicaso.. 
We received a letter from John O'Donndl, PhM 2/c, from what he calls "Navy Secret," Pacific. He's in a military government group, ".. . we tcke care of enemy civilians after an invasion, fe:d them, kesp them out of the way of fi^tln? forces, particularly our own." 
Charlie O'Connell is in the Hampshire County Sanatorium. Haydenville, Mass. Jim Witli'y is in the University Hospital, Ann Arbor, Midi., sent tl:ere for operations from the Sunshine Sanitari­um, Grand Rapids. Both will welcome prayers and letters. 
The assistant alumni secretary's headquarters in Washington recently were Joe Shea's hostelry, the Statler. Joe is sales manager there, and the ^•.•ord "busy" doesn't begin to explain what he is. Dut Joe did generously find time to take Doafejr to lunch. 
Lt. Cmdr. Jim Stadc (a medic, of course) was serving in a sKip off Okinawa, according to a report from Jack Wingerter, '28. 
Paging the '2G "Dome": Lew Cody, still vdth The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
the Federal Electric Co., is now in Milwaukee, bavin? moved from Indianapolis . . . and Lyman Clank, still with Commonwealth Edison in Chi. cago, was one of the *26 delegation at the U.N.D. Night dinner of the Chicago club . . . Eddie D«ff­can. one of New Jersey's leading lawyers, was toastmaster at the large banquet in honor of HacUe Devare in Newark on May 29. 
Barrister Jim Dwycr is doing a swell job as president of the N.D. club of New York City . -. Naih EnKcls is still teaching Shakespeare, mak­ing furniture and raising potatoes i . . Rady Gcepfrich from Bendix in South Bend, where he is one ot the top development engineers, was out to the campus for lunch recently . . . seen on a rainy comer in Cleveland on May 4 at 1:37 p.m.: Jade Galladier, in legal work for the Treasury Department but still a Cleveland resident. . . Roy HaWrt was at the Cleveland meeting, looking the same as he did years ago. 
Ckadc Gninon, a veteran of five years in the Canadian Army, will be discharged soon and, with his wife and son, now in England, will re­turn to the U.S. . . . Jim KeUcghan was down from Chicago for a South Bend week-end not long ago. .. . In Washington in mid-May, Father Joe McCartney and the managing ed discussed old times. . . . Father is assistant superior and a pro­fessor in Holy Ooss College there . . . and Ike Moes and the m.e. did ditto in Minneapolis a few weeks earlier. 
Lew Marphy, working for the Veterans Admin­istration, is now in the San Francisco area and will move his family there from South Bend. Lew has a son, formerly at Notre Dame, who, as a naval trainee, is in the med school at St. Louis University . . . and his daughter, now at Indiana U., is going to study medicine also. 
One of the m.e.'s hosts in Cleveland lately was Denny O'Neill, father of six, who is one of the top men in the D'Arcy ad agency there . . . and it was a swell lunch, Mr. O'N. . . . Father Joe Toomey is director of Catholic charities in the Syracuse diocese. . . . Walt Trohan carries on as a Washington, D.C, correspondent for the Chi­cago "Trib." . . . Joe Walih is working in the navy t^ces here on the csmpus. 
192 7 J<»«P^ M. Boland, Radio SU ­
• '^ ' Hon WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: 
Hera are excerpts from Jim Qninn's letter to me: 
"I returned recently from the Coast where I attended the launching of the DD 2100-ton de­stroyer, 'Joseph P. McCaffery/ The ceremonies were very impressive Little Patricia HcCafTery 
(eldest child of Lt. CoL Haifa HcCaSeiy, '27, deceased) did the chrlstenlnj; of the vessel. Mrs. Hoeh HcCalTery wcs also in attendance. 
"I had rather sad news recently. From Jim Whdan. I learned that his brother. Joe Whelan, *27, had contr.-cted luns trouble while serving in Africa, as a major in the Intelligence and Mili­tary Government I ranch of the Army. Joe Whe-Uii now is in the Scandinavian National Sanl­tariom, at Denver, Co!o.; and I'm sure Joe's old friends will want to get in touch with him there. [Tragically,. Joe died. See "Deaths."—Eds.] 
"I got together with Richard 'Red' Smith, coach of the Chicago Cubs, and Vince HcNally, for a gab-!iession recently—when the Cubs were playing in Philadelphia." 
Jim Qainn is still holding forth at the Qoinn ft Boden Co., Rahway, N. J.—^New York office: 381 Fourth Ave. 
And aside from that, news has been scanty. 

Arthar **B«d** Boerinscr has signed to become Clem Crewe's line coach at Iowa—thus getting the Bearded One out of the North Woods of Minnesota. 
Until next issue—adios. Between now and then, how about a card or letter? 
Scrap Yoanr. who resigned Jan. 1 after 15 years as trainer of the University athletic teams, has signed a contract to train the Detroit Lions. He will join the Lions at the opening of their training season late in August. Bill Coyne is seen quite often v.-hen he visits Washington on legal business for TVA. Knoxville. Tenn. 1st Set. Ed DcClcrcq. South Bend, who entered the Army in March. 1943, and went to Prance on D-day, was awarded the Croix de Guerre. A member of an amphibious engineering unit, he has served with the First and Third armies and is now with the Ninth army. 
Jndge Malcolm Hatfield, St. Joseph. Mich., ad­dressed the faculties of the Ohio State University and other central Ohio colleges and universities at the annual banquet of the Torch Club in Co* lumbus. Phil Doell, with General Electric since 1936. has been appointed district manager of the company's newly formed chemical department in the cast central district, with headquarters in Cleveland. Joe Boland was named business man­ager of the Blue Sox. the city's team in the All-American Girls Professional Ball lea^rue. An­nouncement of his appointment was made by Al McGann, president of the club. Joe's new position will not interfere v.-ith his position on WSBT; he w^ill continue his staff duties and his daily sports program there­
1928 ^®"** ^' Buckley, 4481 Mac­
• ^^ Arthur BlTd.,Waslimston, D. C. 
From Loa Buckley: 
I noted in the "New York Times" recently that Assistant Corporation Counsel Martin V. Callagy was designated by Mayor LaGuardia to sit as a justice of the Court of Domestic Rela­tions. The article stated that Jusice Callagy lives wih his wife and three children at 114 E. Nine­tieth St., New York City. 
Lt. Bob Knox calted me while he was in Wash­ington arranging for a medical discharge from the Navy following a serious accident at the Bos­ton Naval Ammunition Depot some time ago. Bob is married and has one chird- He expects to practice architecture in Springfield. III., where he will live at 910 S. 8th St. Bob mentioned that his two brothers ere located at Crystal Lake, 111. 
Mrs. Ralph Nolan wrote from Joplin, Mo., that Ralph is somewhere in the M2rlanc5- He is with the AAF as a captain. 
John D. Igoe replied to my request for news with a letter bubbling over with news from 7952 
S. ^uclid, Chicago, despite his statement that his ability to concentrate on the chore wcs dependent "on the whims of a great bird whose wings are even now beating around the Igoe chimney." He added a P.S. that since the letter was written that afternoon his second son had been born. The Igoes also have a d-ughter. John is associated with Pittsburgh Steel Company as a sales repre­sentative in the Chicago district. The highlights of John's letter are as follows: 
"At church one Sunday recently I spotted en old classmate—Joe Griffin. It developed that he lives around the corner from us, is m?rried and has two children. Joe is connected with some in­surance firm and has only recently been trans­ferred to Chicago from Denver. 
"In the Empire Room of the Palmer House one night not long ago I ran into Cliailsa (Piaky) Hollaney. Wisconsin's contribution to Brownson Hall. . . . Pinky holds a very important post in • the Walgreen system. Last week I w£s walktns down Michis^an Blvd. and spotted two hnaky* familiar figures cpproaching. Chile WaJbli and Adam, in town to talk over some of the plans for their Cleveland Ram football team. Bemanber Carroll PinUey? Well, he was over for dinner one evening and we had a wonderful session of 'bag- punching:.* About the time we were ready to adjourn Pink recalled that Jcry de Ckrc« lived in the neighborhood, so we called and Jerry came over to help us close the evening properly. He was transferred to Cleveland, before we ooald capitalize on being so close to each other. Pinlc. by the way. is a major or colonel and is stationed at Ft. Sheridan. 
Have lunch now and rgain with Didc Fheiaa and Bill Lechy. Dick is working in the renegotia­tion division of the Surgeon Generars depart­ment, while Bin is a sales representative for some food concern. Bemie Liversoed has an of­fice in the s::me building with my company, so we occ::sionary have a visit over that cup of mid­morning cofTee. Bcrnie is associated with Illinois Business Men's Mutual. 
"In the City Hall recently I ran into Frank Hogan. Frank was recently elected alderman, but I doubt that he w*ill ever win as spontaneous an acclaim as he did when in the quiet of Sophomore Hall (what quiet, asks Father Gallacan?) he broke out with 'In a Little Shack by a Cataract* to the tune ^f 'In a Cottage Small.* Another Notre Darner I see frequently is Jerry Rhefcn Jerry lives in Gary, is married and the father of four splendid children. He is assisting the manager of American Bridge Company's huge Gary plant. 
"It has been many months since I visited Kan­sas City, but last time I was there I spent several delightful evenings with Henry MuMnum. He has just moved in to a beautiful new home where his lovely wife. Cele. will have plenty of siiace to supervise the rompings of their five children. Henry has been highly successful in the con­struction game with his father. 
"Not too many weeks ago Dick Phelan called and asked me to join him and Bill Kearney (asso­ciated with Dick in the renegotiation business) at lunch. When I made my tardy appearance, there was a third guest—Jack Wingerter, recently re­turned from overseas in some news disseminat­ing^ cr.p2city and at the time in Chicago trying to pick up some Luce ends for lime,* Inc. Bumped into James Shocknes^ in a crowded res­taurant one day. He is a lieutenant or something in the procurement division of the Air Force. Also met Joe Kinneary, sporting the bars of an officer. 
"I met James, now Fa!her Janes McSknnc, on the street one day. He is a Jesuit and was in town for some conference on current labor prob> lems. He and I held a curbstone conference dur­ing? which he plied me with questions about the members of our class until he had to dash off to report late for his msetin?. Talked with Cleve­land's Tom Byrne last month and he told me that our old pal. the exuberant guard., the door smashing prefect, George Leppir> h?d been home from the wars, wearing some .of the highest honors of our country." 
Judge **Bud" Call^rgy replied to my note of congratulations and plea for news with some highlights on the New York gang as follows: 
"Recently at the Universal Notre Dame Night, at which we had about 200. George Cmtrj was present. He is a lieutenant in the Navy and is connected with the disposition of. surplus sn]>­plies. His wife is also in New York. Of coarse. 
ther* U Hnfe MrCaW wfaon I « w th« otktr dv» who is a trust olBeer in the GoaruitF Tnt/t GoiBpaBy; and is now ^ving with his UmSkw cm the Jersey abore. Turn Parcdl is a pretty activs lawyer in New Toric I think be is linair ia Ntw Jersey as wdL 
**I saw Ls« TliMataii on two nrrsiiont ia con­ncetioo with the reception tor Bfahap OTBua* whidi was bdd on Notra Dame M1| ^ Loa is about the sasae as ever and very nakws ia Ms work. He has tern assisting BiJuf OTtea at the Military Ordinariate in New York City. War m Vsccl, I thmk. is with the Alien Prop­erty Casto£an» and is very aetire in tbe.Nsw York Clob. beinff on the Board of Gofcmon. Jflha Aatasy as yois know, is now saarrisd and has a nice ftunlly, and is livinir in OrauMcticnt. ^ has a practice in New York; teadie^ I tUak; at Colombia; and has perhaps 'five o^er jabs whidi he carries at the same time. Witili it all, he looks fine. 
''Bemie Gsrbcr, Jsfca Balfe tells me, has a fine position. The last I saw of him he was Svinff in Westchester County. Lany CalBaey wrote me recently, telling me that he has moved with his fanuly to Botland, Vt., whidi was his home, and ­he is working in the Kntland Bank and TVmt Company as either an officer of the bank or a trust officer.** 
Maj. Lorcc Caaainsbaai has been transfnrzed to the Florida military academy in St. Peters-burs. Loree, an athletic officer with the Polidi army daring World War I, had a eolorfbl career . in the sports program at HadMIl field. Tsmpa, Fla. A news report from MacDil] field states that he has been connected with lAysteal edoeatioa and recreation coansellinff most of his adolt Uffc Lt. Gciircc Wacner* Coast Gnard. has a FPO fnnn San Fkvndseo, and 2mi L t Geerge OVrisa'* is detailed in Hammond General .Ho^ital, Mb­destoi Cklif. 
One of the publishers of the "Hennepin Coonty Review," Htvkins, Minn., is Gnw O'Brica. 
192 9 Major JoMph P. McNaaara, " '* ' 1314 N. Court Hoiiao Rd , Ar­liagtoB, Va. 
With the armed forces since October. .1940. Major Viistt CBae retomed from service from catside the States. Virgil served 33 months as a contracts and claims officer in the southwest Pa­cific and was awarded the Asiatie-Paeifie .cam­paiEn ribbcm. 
Bcv. Jssepli Vaer4e, CS.C., Soath Bend, left in Mardi far India and a missionary assisn­ment. Father Voorde is a veteran of India mission work, having spent seven years there. 
"Father ^m," in reality Navy Lt. Jai Nsrtaa, C.^C.» had a steady stream of conffeato­lations from the Leathernecks he serves as chap­lain on an isbmd somewhere in the Pacific when he received his promotion to a foil lieotenant. Lt. David Fiddly stationed in Miami, Fla.. is head of legal activities there. Dave was called to active doty in December, 1942,.from his position as as­sistant to the attorney general in Washingon, 
D. C. • 
From Jslu Igoc^a ('28) letter:. *'In Cedar Rapids I was making a call xuid my card was sent in to a Mr. Sehimberg. Ihe name struck a xe­sponnve diord—and sore enough the pordiasing agent <^ La Plant-Choate tamed oat to be BEab Sddmberg who was a prominent member of tiw class of '29. Hob is married, has two or throe, small children, a generous sprinkling of grey ia his cmce black shock of hair and is, accor£ng to , his bnslness associates, dtnng a 'wonderfol job.*** 
Bill DoneUn, Lons Island, N.. Y.. has arrived in Hawaii for further assignment in the Pacific Ocean area as an American Red Cross assistant field director. Until his Red Cross appointment. Bill was with the U. S. Civil Ser\'ice Commis­sion. Washington, D.C., and N.Y.C 
1930 Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad 
• ^^^ Sh, PbiUdelphia, Pa. 
Capt. Jim Shcedr can be reached at the sta­tion hospital. Fort McPherson. Ga. Marine 1st Lt. John McCarthy reported for duty with the ninth Marine Aircraft Wins at the Marine Corps Air Station at Cherry Point, N. C, in March. 
Joe Apodaca w*as in Washin^rton on business recsntb*- He is still with RFC and is located in Costa Rica. He was married a year ago in Wash­ington to a girl from South America. CpL Bob Frencb. Houston. Tex., and Hollywood, Calif., was with the AAF in Italy. 
1931 
Na\-y's Father John M. Dapuis, C.S*C., -was a battalion chaplain in the fourth Marine division in the invasion of Iwo Jima. Franic Kopinski re­turned to his Portage township justice of peace oflice in South Bend after beini; drafted and hon­orably discharged from the Army, 
Where-they-Ares: James WaUh, 31 Knicker­bodcer Ave., Paterson 3. N. J. : Lt-(JE) Pierre Aneermeier, c/o FPO, Ssn Francisco: Lt- (iff) James Rudolf. Charleston. S. C ; Spilie Sullivan, division superintendent. Carter Oil Co.. Mattoon. Ill, 
Marine l«t Lt. John O'Connor. M.A. '31, Dor­chester, Mass., reported for duty as classification officer with the ninth Marine aircraft wins at the Marine Corps Air Station at Cherry Point. N, C. At Wright Field, Ohio, Capt. Bob Pendercast, received his promotion and was assigned to the 
Rev. Patrick E. Duffy, C.S.C, '31, Navy chaplain in the Pacific, was the preacher on April 15 when the Catholic Church throughout Australia paid solemn tribute to 
• the memory of the late president of the United States, Franklin D. Koosevelt, LL.D '35, at a solemn high Mass in St, Mary's Cathedral, Sydney. Seven thousand persons were in or near the cathedral and an estimated quarter million heard Father Duffy's sermon by radio. 
The Holy Father's personal rep­resentative, Most Rev. John Pan­cio, D.D., presided at the Mass, and with him in the sanctuary was Most Rev. N. T. Gilroy, D.D., arch­bishop of Sydney. Present also were leading dignitaries of the Commonwealth, of the Consular Corps and of the armed forces of the United States. 
Father Duffy's tribute to Presi­dent Roosevelt was acclaimed throughout Australia and printed in full in The Catholic Weekly, Sydney. 
pitents and royalties section. Judge Advocate's Offlce. 
Capt. Wilton John Sherman, Crown Point. Ind., a prisoner in a German camp for four months, has been released, and by the time this appears in print, will probably he back in the U.S. Jack was reported as missing Vefcra his name was officially added to the "captured" list 
1939 ^^ James K. Collins, 1135 Man­' '•' ^ Chester Ave.. Norfolk, V«. 
From Jim Collins: 
Lt. Ed Helinen has returned from extended duty in the Pacific and is now on duty 'at the Bureau of Aeronautics in Washington. A letter from him says, in part: 
"On Dec. 3 I reported in the Allowance List Coordination Section of the Maintenance Division of the Bureau'and expect to be on duty here for quite some time to come- . . . The experiences I had in the Pacific -were a good background for my present work. 

"My wife and son, Mike, are coming back to live here about the first of the month, and will • be with me until at least the first of July when I expect to be transferred again.- This will be the first time in over two years that I will have had the opportunity to reaPy start living again." 
Ed also said that the best part of the war for him was the 26-day leave he wcs able to spznd at his Baverl7 Hills home on his wpy back from Pearl Hcrbor. 
L t Bin McCormlck spent a few days in this vicinity recently before his ship, a landing craft repair ship, left for the Pacific He is the re­pair officer and has a crew of about 80 men under him. His wife and daughter are living in Hiimi, which has been their home for a number of sremrs. 
Stan Czpabki writes that men from this class are hard to find around Chicago these days. The 
U.N.D. Night dinner wcs very scantily attended by '32ers although the total attendance was high. He sees Henry Gajkowski and Joe GonciaR quite often, both of whom are opernting their own drug stores on the northwest side of Chicago. 
As you're read in earlier issues, Ray Gexger, '32, now a captain, is a Teteran of much PaciSc fighting with the Army and the winner of the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. 
^ e would like to hear from other pharmacists. particularly Emil J«nc and Cas Vaikaiis. 
T«N Tobin is with the All States Insurance Company and living in California. 
Lt. Jim Downs was home to Chicago from the Army and was entertained at a party given by Stan Czpalski and others. Jim, however, waited unUI the following dcy to announce his engage­ment, and the bc^s are still waiting for an ex­planation of that fast one. 
Lt. Captor and Lt. Paul OToole had a get-together in an Italian port recently. Both are commanding officers of Armed Guard crews on merchant ships. Al has been in the Navy about three years and has been on sea duty most of that time. He was on a Greek ship at last report. 
Lt. Frank Flynn and Lt. Dan Hanley will have reported to the Armed Guard in San FVancisco by the time you read this- Both of them expect sea duty in the Pacific on board merchant ships. 
Lt, John Clark is in the Navy's Allied Military Government project at an advanced base. He took his training for this work at Princeton. 
Ed DeBartok is a first lieutenant in the Army and was last heard from at Camp Butner, N. C. Gsfce Moran, storekeeper second class in the Navy, is back in Newfoundland after a busily-spent overseas leave at home. 
A very welcome letter from Fatber <Lf.) Henry Heintikill* C*S.C.» who is the chaplain on ah escort carrier. He said, in part, 
"Since ^ve have been out here in the Pacific they have kept us very much on the go. After the Leyte deal we moved in from a sideline por­tion and helped along with Luzon and Iwo Jima-And we are still at it. Since the first of the year we have been given only enoxtgh time to anchor to reprovision and rearm and then back to the job. A good bit of water has passed under us but we have not put in any^vhere to see anything. 
"Our mail comes through slowly and irregular­ly. The last batch of official mail brought me orders to report back to the States for further as^gnment. However, I do not expect these orders to be effective for at least a month as I doubt that we will put into port before then." 
Lt. Don Ryan informs me that he h=s been put on the available list for sea duty, so is expecting orders at any day. 
A clipping received in the Alumni Office re­vealed the continuing fine work John Ryan is doing with Republic Aviation, Farmingdale, L.I., 
N. Y. John is the company's counsel and vice* president J«lui Conway, Rochester, N. Y., has arrived in England for further assignment In the ETD as an American Red Cross assistant field director. Until his appointment, John was em-Ployed by Stroroberg-Carlson Company. Rochester. An APO, thivu^ San Francisco is the ad^ss We have for 1st Lt. Hike Powers. 
Ed 0*Malley asked prayers for the complete re­covery of his wife, Martha, who had a serious <^>eration not so long ago. Ed is now with the law firm of McGlynn ft HcGIynn (Joe, '12. and Dan, '18) in East S t Louis, 111. 
FaAer John J. Barke, CS.C., chaplain, who was stationed at the National Naval Medical Cen­ter, Bethesda, Md., has a new address—c/o PO, San Francisco. 
C«L Clurles Dnnean Jones, a spectacular figure in the AAF before he was captured by the Ger­mans, has been liberated and may even now be back in the U.S. 

193 3 L^ "^'She Woods, 7944 Ellis 
• ^*''' ATO., Chicago. III. 
From Norm Duke to Tighe Woods: 
"Censorship regulations permit me to say that .1 am 'Somewhere in the Philippines.* I am ex-
executive ofhcer aboard a FT Tender* having 
come out directly from a tour of duty on FT 
Boats in the Mediterrane::n with 40-day stopover 
in the States. 
"Since my arrival I have had occasion to run into a few Notre Dame men. Two of them are fel­low Chicagoans of yours: Lt. Cmdr. John Hoban* *35, who is in command of a group of LCI^. and Lt. <jc) Al Van Haffel, Ml, whom I ran into in the company of John Hoban at a Navy officer's club out here. Although I have not had occasion to see him, I am told that Lt. George Horiarty, who used to play a good game at quarterback, is continuing his association with athletics as recre­ation officer on an island recreation area near here. There are two Notre Dame men serving as PT skippers in squadrons which we tend. One is Lt. (jt) Bob Browning. *43, and the other is Lt. Bob Meyer, Ml. Lt. (jg) Don Heltzel, M3. just left one of the squadrons on rehabilitation leave. 
"Should I run across anyone from the class of *33, I'll be sure to have him get in touch with you and supply you with some fodder for your col­umn. Every Sunday we have a church party which goes to the flagship for Mass at 0900. So far I've run into Norm HarCzer, '29, of South Bend, who left a very good law practice there to join the Navy at the start of the war. Norm is a lieuten­ant serving aboard a destroyer, and expects to get back home soon after 18 months in the area." 
A note from Tom Dorris, Muncy, Pa.: ". . . Recently received a card from Lt. (jg) Art Mc­G«e, San Diego, Calif., whose wife and three children are still in Glens Falls. N. Y. . . . Had word recently from brother-in-law, 1st Lt John 
R. Wallace, '34, fighting in eastern French-German front. . . . Upon accepting position with Sprout-Waldron this spring was surprised to find this town of 2.400 had a fellow alumnus, Peter SomerviUe, '27, manager of Jones & Laughlin wire rope plant at Muncy." 
Information: Paul Sartoretto* chemist in charge of research department, American Machine and Foundry. Brooklyn, N- Y.; Jim Galligan, mana­ger, MoUne branch of Newhouse Paper Co.; Lt. Bob Gelhaos, Cincinnati, two years in Army fer­rying command. Don Martin, director. USO club, Seattle. Don and his wife stopped at Notre Dame on April 17, en route to Seattle. 
1st Lt. Bob Filaon, New Bethlehem, Pa., has been assigned to third service command headquar­ters for duty with the service command provost marshal section, Baltimore. Alex Wilson was ap­pointed athletic director of Loyola university in April by the Rev. James T. Hussey. S.J., acting president of the university. Alex has coached track, cross-country and swimming at Loyola since his graduation from Notre Dame. He was a member of the Canadian Olympic track teams of 1928 and 1932 and coached the Canadian teams of 1930 and 1934 in the British empire games. 
Fred Snitc, Jr., who is in his 10th year as an iron lung patient, was at home in suburban River Forest in late April after his annual winter visit to Florida. Tanned and feeling fine, Fred spent a month at his heme before leaving for the family lodge on Lake Minocqua, Wis. 
109 ^ Joseph R. Glennon, Jr.» Brook Maner, Pleasantville, N. Y. 
A fine letter regarding universal military train­ing was noted in the "Letters to the "Kmes.' of the New York "Times." written by Bill RcUly, Orange, N. J. A letter from Arequipa. Peru, S-A., was received from Ralph Rosens whose offidml capacity is airport manager with Pan-Aneriam Grace Airways, but who also runs a dairy randi on the side. CpL and Mrs. Dave Daliymple visited the office on April 25. Dave was on his way to Camp Pickett. Va., where he was going to do re­habilitation work. Pvt. Jim S«A is with the Marines in the Pacific Capt. Paal Bramaaa ia stationed at Camp Ellis in the personnel divia<Hi. Johnny Casey is with the Admiralty and Shipping Division, Department of Justice, Washington. D.C. 
From Father Ed Hurray, C.S.C., a chaplain samt­where in Germany, April 9: 
"They say this is Universal Notre Dame Day. Fat chance of celebrating here—even Mass! Sit­ting in a jeep in one of the hundreds of dark German forests and plenty of rain! A crazy war this! Today and the next day and the next a steady grind day and night through mountainous terrain, in and out of picturesque villages, then a siege of a good-sized town, some bloodshed, a few days respite and sleep and good food, and then we are off again—20. 30. 40 miles daily. The people here are stunned—and so are we; th^ at the quick blitz and disillusion following years of propaganda, and we at the lack of resistance over miles of terrain. 
"A few lads from the campus here, Gsido Alex­ander, Tom Todrass, Lando Howard, Dae (BUi*r) Licser, Bob Pohle—but our get-togethers are few and far between now that the Rhine is crossed. Warren Kane just wrote back from the States, m million dollar wound and he was oat of this hell and back home. He is more fortunate than some. a couple of toes shot oft and a leg wound, sufficient to warant a much needed trip to the States, but not bad enough to incapacitate him permanently. 
"The 'Alumnus' comes and gets a good going over by the lads, when I catch them." 
Lt. Bob Cahill's orders were changed and he switched from a southern base to the communica­tions office at the Glenview naval air station near Chicago. Lt. Bemie Witocki, stationed at Camp Edwards. Mass.. for more than a year, expected reassignment after a short leave. Capt. John G'Neil, who has had extensive overseas service across the Atlantic, is now at Edgewood Arsenal, Md. 
The football fortunes of the Pittsburgh Steelers will be in the hands of James Leonard, who signed a one-year contract as head coach. 
193 5 ^^^"^^y° ^* Hochreiter. 2118 Treasure St., New Orleanst La-
From Hoch: 
It has been a good white since your scribe sent along any quantity of class notes. We have been saving them up 'til we had a worthwhile column. ­and now that time has arrived—even if some of it does date back to Christmas. 
Some time ago we received a letter from \ie Knrzweg from the Pacific, as follows: 
"Four of us had quite an unexpected get-together the other day. I was sitting in a naval officers' club out here in the Pacific refreshing myself when Fran ScUcater andVinee Garauui walked in with the same idea. They had run into each other, the day before. We looked up B«h Cahill who is on the same island and had a fine time discussing old times at N.D. FVan and Vinoe are both doctors and Bob and I are in comnrani­cations. Fran is attached to an air command and Vince is on an LST. Bob is attached to the base. I just completed a tour of duty on a destroyer tender and am awaiting reassignment," [Bob Odiill is now at Glenview Air Station, near Oii­cago—^Eds.] 
Fraak Htkhaa came throngfa inst before Chxist­maa with a lonff epistle. 
Frank and bis wife spent Army week-end in New York with Fnnk Kyaa and his wife end took in the gmnie. It was Frank's ninth eonaeca­tive year for the classic. Bat to quote: 
• "Byaa is doing very well as secretary-treasor^ of a manufacturing subaidiaiy of Associated la-vestments with which he has been connected anee grodoation. On the way to the game we saw Walt Shethaa, and he was looking as rotund as usoaL At the game we met Jshaay Neeten, Lt. VSNR, stationed in Philadelphia, bat expecting orders any day. Lt. Peal Gaanieri ston>ed to visit a few minutes. He has been in the Army about three years, I believe he said. He mentioned that he cooldn't get back to the practice of law any too soon. 
**NttMa said that Bay BKedericfc was oat on* the West Coast awaiting further orders. I guess he has seen a lot of action as a naval Ueatenant. Ryan told me that his brother. Jalui, is prober­ing in Chicago, happily married. Frank, by the way. has a charming wife, and a daus^ter aged three. 
"He also said that Jim Hamilton is still dtung very well with his family comxiany, the Donmore Electric Co., in Racine. . . . Frank also saw Al RaTaria* at S t Fat's. I believe he said that Al is still associated with the family company in St. Louis. My. mother wrote me recently that Te ^ Graves* a captain in the Army, .was recently' in Galesburg. 
"I had a long letter from Lt. (jg) Ned Kawaa from the Soath Pacific y^terday. He says every­thing is going all right, but that he cannot wait to get back to his law practice. He has seen considerable action, as has Lew Yeagcr who^ Ned says, is the only '35er he has met out there. Ned was on the 'New Mexico* and is now on the 'New Orleans.* I haven't heard from Phil Jaerti since he was awaiting orders on the coast some months ago. He has been to sea for more than 18 months.** 
Lt. Paal Gaamieri included a note on his Christmas card, as follows: -'"Ran into ^a l Ledwr on the street a few weeks ago in a sailor uniform. The night of the fatality (Army game, which we were unfortunate to see) I saw Joe Claric, '34, who is a Navy lieutenant. .. . I have been here (New York City) two months and am labor relations (^cer for the medical department.** 
Christmas cards (V-mail) came from Lt. Char­lie Maher* with the Seabees in the Marianas, and from Capt. Jim BfacDevitt, in Italy with thie Sec­ond Corps. 
Alberta Genaaa sent a Christmas card with a picture of thor cute daaghter. Rosemary Joan, as part of it. Alberta wrote: "Vlnee is still over­seas (16 months) and is now a' full lieutenant (Navy). Alberta*s note said that Vince had met Phil Jaceha overseas, so he finally got those orders Frank Helaluui was wondering about. 
Hiae Merria, *40. was good enough to send as an announcement of his wedding on Jan. 25. He included a note about oar own Ficd Le^e Herns* his brother. IVed is now a major, and ia provost marshal in an U.P. Platoon of the 79th Division, spearheading the 7th Army in Germany. Fred is married, and Emilee had a dan^ter, Kathleen I^nilee. in St. Louis in December. iVed­holds the Bronze Star Medal since last falL 
Later: Since I wrote that paragraph. Pve heard of I^cd Morris' death. In the name of the class, I Kctend sincere sympathy to his family. 
On Jan. 26, from "somewhere in England," Capt. Jim Pick wrote: 
"I just received news that I'm now father of a son named 'Pete/ so I'm just bursting with pride- After marrying Nov. 17, 1943, out in the desert of California. I lived there for several months, then moved to Memphis and attended the Army X-Ray School. I've been in England since early June. 1S44, and am still itching to move to Berlin. Probably General Ben Lear will now give me a chance. 
"My wife is living with her mother .. . in Milwaukee-I don't know whether Brownson Hall will ever be re-opened, but I think my first son, Peter, would like to live at Kotre Dame—even in a pup tent, if necessary. 
"I haven't seen any Notre Dame men since en­tering active ser\-ioe in the Army, Aug. 15. 1942­I'm working on casualties at a General Hospital over here, the organization being comprised of former men associated with Cook County Hospital, Chicago, where I interned- I'm planning on re­turning to Rochester. Minn., in urological sur­gery after the war is over—and six months." 
Johnny Hoban is now LCT advance area com­mander and he wrote in March from his head­quarters in the Pacific as follows: 
"While aboard one of my ships making an in­spection of some damage today, I discovered a copy of the 'Alumnus* for the month of October, 1944. At the same time I found out that the skip­per of the ship was another Notre Dame graduate. His name is Joe Christen and he graduated from Chemical Engineering in 1943. He is an ensign and is doing very fine work out in this area. 
"WTiile reading the 'Alumnus* I saw your sec­tion and the mention of our meeting in the Fed­eral building in New Orleans. .. . I am Com­manding Officer of this Amphibious Combat Flo­tilla. We are part of the famous Seventh Amphibious Force, under the command of Ad­miral Dan Barbey. It is the same outfit that has beaten the Japs back from Australia all the way up here to the Philippine Islands. I joined them two weeks after I met you in September. 
"My communications officer, you will remem­ber. Ens. Joe Zwers, who was captain of the football team at school in 1937. He has done a fine job on my staff and I am rather proud of him. Ens. Danny Sullivan, *36. is the command­er of one of the divisions in this flotilla- Dan was cited the other day for some might>* fine work. ITie last one whom I have seen is Bill Shea. Shea got out, I believe, in 1942 . . . and is a skipper of a ship. 
"We have been through the entire Philippine campaign, up to date, and have taken part in all of the landings. Our luck has been %-ery good, our losses being very small. It is the sincere de­sire of all of us that we continue that way. 
"Understand that Bob Cahill js out in this vi­cinity somewhere, but up to date I haven't had the luck to run across him. On the ship coming across I ran into Bob McDonough, a classmate and now a captain in the Army. Bob has a de­lightful job, he goes ashore in the first invasion wave and acts as a spotter for gunfire. He was in France for the big invasion and has now been in action out here." 
Art Conrad hit the jackpot for big news w-hen he.acted as courier to the President during the 
* Big-ITiree conference. He carried the secret and confidential despatch pouch to the President of the United States, making two round trips dur­ing the Yalta Conferences- Art talked with Mr. Rooseyelt, Anna Roosevelt Boettiger, Admiral Leahy. Admiral Stack, and later at the White House with Mrs. Roosevelt while she entertained him at lunch. He saw Churchill, King Faroulc, Haile Selaisse. and King Ibn Saud among others. We envy you, Arthur, but then you alwmys did manage to get in on those "big deals." 
One of our honorary classmates, the President of the United States, Franklin D. Roosevelt, died as he was about to witness victory. The class of *35 is particularly honored in having had as one of its members this great man. Your scribe will always keep a letter from him sending his greet­ings to us at our first reunion, and stating that he wished be could be with us. His death heads the list of '35ers who ga^-e their lives that we might live-
And lastly we come to the Prexiel Writes TOM Proctor late in March: 
"On March 19 I was sworn in as an attorney and counsel lor-at-law at the New York State Bar. I was one of eight admitted on motion out of a total of 52 sworn in and am now privileged to practice law in Indiana and New York." 
Please keep the dopa rolling in and we will pass it along to every one. 
Lt. Dee Scfaerman. South Bend, was seriously injured late in March when a navy pursuit plane he was piloting crashed near Conway, S. C. Dee was transporting the plane to Jacksonville. Fla.. and had stopped for refueling at Cbnway shortly before the crash. The father of three children, be has been in the Navy Air Corps since November, 1942. 
Rnss O'Shea, writing of a recent trip, says, ".. . I spent several days in New Orleans but ran upon no Notre Dame men there except Father Leo J. Flood, CS-C, pastor of Sacred Heart par­ish there, whom I visited briefly on Easter Sunday evening. While returning by train I had a three-hour stopover at Jackson, Miss., where I called on 
C. M. Jones, father of Col. Charles D. Jones, '32. Mr. Jones told me his son has been in the Air Corps since he finished at Notre Dame in 1932. About three years ago he was injured in action in North Africa. Returning to duty, he was later captured in Germany and now is a prisoner there. Mr. Jones was hoping that Patton's army might soon rescue him. - . . (He's now released.—^Eds.] On Saturday, April 7. I had a big two-hour bull session w-ith Jim Gilfoil, *34, at his rather spa­cious home at Omega, La., about nine miles from Tallulah. Jim now has three girls and a boy named Pat. after Pat Bums* a N-D. buddy of his —and mine, too—of the class of *33, from Na­tchez. Miss. 
"From Tallulah I went north to Memphis where I had a lengthy chat on the telephone with Ficd Banr, '32. Fred told me that he now has three boys in his family and that his automobile parts' business keeps him extremely busy. Last Friday evening as I was coming into my office I was approached by Alpbonae O'Ronrke, of Charleston. Ma Al used to sit next to me in Mr. Martinez's Spanish class back in 1931. He finished in the Commerce School in 1932." 
Lt. Leo Fomenko, South Bend, wrote home that he had been liberated from his German captors and was recuperating in an army hospital over­seas. He was captured with two regiments in the Ardennes forest. Dec 17. and was forced to march 30 miles to the German city of Geraldstein. lliere, he wrote, they were loaded into box cars 50 to a car and were kept there for seven days, suffering the tortures of intense cold and almost imbear­able hunger and thirst. 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
104 A Joseph F* Mansfield, 34 Fifth ^^^^ St., Felh.ni. N. Y, 
Tram Lt. Fred Carideo, cjo FPO, San Francisco: 
"This time I am skipper of an LSM. .. . As my executive officer I have Lt. (j») Anthony J. Maloney, '43, so you can readily see what the most popular university is aboard this ship. Oh yes! We have a recording of the good old 'Victory March* and also 'When the Irish Backs Go March­ing By," both being very good morale builders! 
"I spent a few weeks down in Houston. Tex., and while there I had dinner, together with Mrs. Carideo. at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Young, the parents of Johnnie *Tex* Yoanr* Leichton Tonng. ex. *37, Tex's brother, now is the proud father of two future Notre Dame football players. Ray Keating, '35. one of the athletic managers during my years at NJ>., is also down in Houston and is doing very well." 
Vincc Little received his promotion to captain in the medical administrative corps in the Pacific. Capt. Jim Sherry, North Tarrytown, N. Y., was an assistant quartermaster in Belgium. He has been overseas for more than two years. Emery Sath, in the Pacific, is studying Japanese as a hobby. He's already proficient in English, Hun­garian. Greek, and French. 
193 7 Prank J. Reilly, MacNair-Dor­
• '• " land Co., 254 W. 31st St., New York City 
From Frank RcUly: 
A number of things conspired to make writing this news easier—though mail from the '37ers was not among them. ITie first event was the New York-Notre Dame Club's celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Waldorf, April 9. That very pleasant evening brought forth a number of the '37 lads that I hadn't seen since graduation, as well as news of others. On hand from our class for the affair were: Father Joe English, Bob Wilke, Paul Sheedy, Pat Fiaher (LL.B. '37). WiU Kirfc and Tom Hughes. Joe English, as you know, is a Maryknoll priest, and looks very impressive in his Roman collar and clerical black suit-I hadn't seen Joe since N.D. days, although I did talk to him on the telephone a couple of times. I was rather surprised at how little he, or any of the other boys for that matter, had changed. 
Boh WiQce is with White Motor Co., here in New York, and lives with his wife and two daughters in Stamford. Conn. Bob worked in his home town of Hamilton. O., for a while after graduation, did some high school football coach­ing and played professional football before join­ing "White. After a couple of years with the com­pany, he took leave to accept a position with a construction concern that eventually led him to Eau Claire, Wis. Last fall he rejoined ^Vhite here in New York. 
Bob is a neighbor of Ed Gannon, of Youngs­town, O., extraction. Eddie, Bob tells me, works for an X-ray manufacturing company in Stam­ford and has two children. 
Paal Sheedy was recently transferred to New York by his employer, the FBL I think he said he has been a G-man for about three years, hav­ing seen service in Milwaukee, Miami and Hous­ton. Previously he was with Standard Brands. Paul is the father of a boy, Brian, 2 ^ years old, and a daughter, Barbara, one year old. The Sheedys are living in Jackson Heights. 
Pat Fiiher is a first lieutenant in the Army, attained to the Judge Advocate General's office. He said he was stationed at the Redistribution Center in Atlantic CSty, N. J. Pat has two brothers in the Army, both of whom went to 

N.D. They would be: Paul. '42, who joined tip shortly after getting out of school, and is now in Rome, with the OSS. and Jsck, '40, who is a T/5, now in the Southwest Pacific. Jcck. Pat says, has been in the Army for four years. 
Will Kirk, now manager of the Grand Street branch of the City Bank of New York, is the father of three children, all boys, five years, four years, and two-months old. Will phoned me the other day to ask about setting the following fel­lows to write and account for themselves: Johnny McCarty and Mark Kerin. both of Denver; Ed Gannon (whom we've already accounted for) and Frank Esan of Fittston. Pa. I believe Will did mention that Frank was at one time a Wilkes-Barre. Pa., agent for Prudential Life Insurance Co. and more recently a naval reserve lieutenant on a submarine in the Pacific. Frank has two sons. 
Some of the fellows I obtained news about at the Universal N.D. Night meeting included Arch Gott. who is a naval rsserve officer, probably a full lieutenant, according to Greg Rice, who was also on hand. Greg, ty the wpy. is stationed at the Maritime Training School at Kings Point, L.I., where he coaches the trcck team and is a physical training instructor. Tom Hnffhcs said he had bumped into Al Smith in New York recently. Bernie Niezer. another naval reserve officer, is be­lieved to be on a baby flat-top in the Pacific. Ed Hnisking and Lake Tisman are in the Marine Corps, the former a liautenant, the latter a cap­tain. 
I had chance meetings with two other members of the class whom I hadn't heard of in some time. On a local subway I noticed a familiar face beneath a naval officer's ccp. It turned out to be Basil Gerard Gillespie, of Hempstead, Walsh Hall. Rio and all. Bctv/ean the roar of subway trains, I managed to learn that Jerry had just returned from 22 months of sea duty on a merchant ship in charge of the armed guard. He had achieved the impossible in New York by obtaining an apartment for his wife and baby girl who was born March 5. Jerry has been in the Navy two years this month (May) and has spent most of his time on a South American run. He's living at present at 2100 Anthony Ave-, in the Bronx. 
Jerry mentioned that Jchn Vickers is with the FBI. but was unable to furnish any further de­tails. Jerry phoned the following week and we had lunch with Bob Wilke. Bob reported that Hmrry Mart* his old roommate, was a flight in­structor in naval aviation and was doing very well at it- Harry is stationed at Peru, Ind. He's a jg and the proud prpa of three children: Warren, Mp.urcen and Michrel. Bob said he saw Harry last summer at Eau Claire. Wis. 
The other meeting was with Frank Frascati in a nearby camera store where I was waiting to have a color photograph of my youngster touched up. Frank's home town is North Bergen. N. J., and he's presently working for the Texas Co, at Beacon. N. Y. Frank happened to be in town for a meeting of the American Society of Me­chanical Engineers. He had been in Port Arthur, Texas, for his company for a while, following studies in petroleum engineering in Tulsa, Okla.. after getting out of school. Frank has a 16­months-old daughter. Speaking of Frank, you naturally recall his gymnast side-kick. Joe Man­celli. of Bayonne. N. J. Frank said he had seen Joe a year or so ago and believes he was working in a shipyard in Bayonne. Joe is married, too, Frank reports and has a 2^-year-old boy. 
Among the other fellows from N.D. whom I saw and recognired at Universal N.D. Night were: Eugene Farrell, *28, managing editor of the Newark, N. J.. "Star Ledger," and his star reporter. Bill Smnllen, *35. They were talking to Joe Byrne, a prominent N.D. alumnus here in the east. Also present was Jim SUd<a» of *Z5, and track fame, who is on an Army Air Forces legislative committee Jim has two childr^i. James. Jr., born Jan. 11. 1945. and Holly 0., who is two years old. The Shields live in Jackson Heights. Major Gerald W. Hayc*. '26. of the Army Medical Corps, was back on hand, havinsr returned to the States after active duty in Africa and Italy. Jim Flanacan, '38. a fellow townsman of Fatkcr Joe Enslish, was there, too. I think be said he was a tax collector, thou^ I can't voudi for it because at that point I was puttinsr as much dis­tance between the tax collector and myself. Ed Hoyt's brother. Jack, secretary of the N. T. chib. did an excellent job in arranging the program. The guests of honor were our own Biihop Jil u 
F. O'Hara, bishop of Buffalo, ArcfaUAop Fnuwis 
J. Spellman of New York, and Georxe Sokabky. the New York "Sun" columnist 
A navy casualty list last month c::rried the name of Bill Mnlrcnan as having been wounded in action. I suppose by the time that information was published Bill was up and around—we hope so at any rate. 
Lt. Walt Nienaber* cheer leader in 1937, writes from his navy post out in the Pacific that he re­cently encountered Lt. Jirfuiny Laatar, captain of the 1936 football team, and that while he and Johnny were exchanging toasts and felicitations, Lt. Hank Ensel, assistant football manager in 1935. walked in and joined the group. 
Marine Ist Lt. Matt Mclnemy* South Bend, has seen much action on Okinawa with the Marine Corp engineers. Chaiiie O'Brien* pilot, has re­cently been promoted to the rank of captain. He is flight commander of his flying fortress bom­bardment squadron now operating in the Medi­terranean theatre and based in Italy. He has been awarded the Air Medal with an oak leaf cluster. A former captain in the medical corps, John Phil­lips is now with the Columbia-Presbyterian Hospi­tal, N.Y.C. 
Phil Bondi's latest operation has been termed a complete success, and he has many prayers for a complete and speedy recovery. Phil is still at t-he sanitarium in Rockford. 111. Working for the famed Father Flanagan's Boys* Home in Bojs Town. Nebr.. is Tom PendenEast, who is director of welfare. An athletic officer in the Pacific is Lt. (jg) Gay McMichacI. Jr.. of South Bend. 
193 8 Harold A. Williams, 4323 Mar­' '^ ^ blehall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
Jack Solon is now working and living in Los Angeles. Capt. Bill Toomey is cyo APO. New York Gty. Another captain, this one in the Sig­nal Corps, Washington, D-C, is Bi-i Fiali. 
A V-mail from Ned Fisfawick: ". . . Just a few lines to s?y 'hello' from Germany—the eighth country I've been in since leaving the U.S. 32 months ago. Today marks the end of three years in the Army for me. We've really been busy late­ly and moving every few days. Spent four months in Alsace, five weeks of it in the city of Httl­house. We were with the French First Army then. Passed through Strasbourg and Colman but didn't see much of thesa cities. . . . David Bilxcr, &om St. Augustine. Fla.. is still in Corsica." 
Tom Elder, statistical officer with a unit of the Fifth Air Force service command, now in the Philippines, has been promoted to captain. Tom has served in New Guinea, the Netherlands East Indies and the Philippine Islands in the course of 16 months overseas. Major Bob Hackman. T7SMCR. was back in Cleveland in M-y after service on Guadalcanal, Guam and Iwo Jima, among other spots. He was to report later in the month to Harvard for three months* qpedal tr^aiiv a>d then reaadsnment. 
Beonitcd for the first time in neariy foar 9«ant Lt. Geerge Pttiiti^ lone a captive intikeVhSOp^ pines, and his brother, Lt^ Jae Fctribb '92, far­mer sports pnbUd^ director at Notr* DWMk viated with friends at the Univcnitr and itt Soath Bend in late ApriL 
1939 ViacMt W. DaOna—T, im Gaorgia, Kantag Ctj, baa. 
Serving vith the tianaixnt frnimunil ia lafia. Noth Afckri» has been promoted to the nude ef major. Capt. Fiaak Halic, who pat in a «aT welcome appearance on the campu on, Xar it.1M stationed at Cherry P<Mnt. N. C Imt UL Wtmr Biadfard was awaiting reassignment at the Aher­deen Proving Groond. Xd., in April. Coeuiis­sioned ensign. Pa d DaCkaraw is a naval aviator. 
AI Pacetia wrote: ".. . Do jtn remcBhcr Bob SaUvaa. 'Ml He's the executive oOnr at the 94th squadron in this group and is now a major. He asked me to convey his waimesl regards to you. Bob is one of the finest and bestjilced man in the outfit." Bab Peiry is with the State Divart­ment, Washington, D.C, and expected to he sent shortly to Germany in connection with his woA In May. Capt Chidt Fatfcteart was living in Bal> timore. awaiting reassignment. He is a vet«an of extensive service in the Padfic in motor trans> port woric Chicle had lately been an instructor at Edgewood Arsenal near Bahxmov^ 
194 0 !•*• K«li«rt a Saafordl 3934 N. ' '^^ MarylaaaATa,,llilwaBka«.Wis. 
Matt Geaiias. West Bend. Wis., has been promoted to captain with tlie sixth infantry division on Luzon. Lt. (|g) Fraak Fcrgaa was home on leave after 20 months in the Paetfie; 14 of which were destroyer duty. He saw aetka on Bougainville. Babanl. and was in the foree whidi helped direct American victories over Hie Japanese fleet in the Philippine waters last Oe> toher. 
Promotions: Matt Gaaring to eeptain with the sixth infantry divisirai on Luzim: Cearge Ham to captain in Belgium: Bemie Hiss to captain: Jae Shelly to techncian fourth grade. 
Lt. (jg) Tom LeStiaage was in a base hoq^tal near Honolulu, recovering from a ballet wound inflicted by a Jap sniper who sneahed up bdiind him as he was leaning over giving plasma to a eorpsman who was bleeding seriously on Iwo Jima on March 6. In May, Lt. Ed W..».M^ Perry» O.* had completed 32 missions over targets in Ger­many and France. He is with the 452nd bomber group stationed in England- Ed holds the Presi­dential unit citation, the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters and has been recommended for the DFC 
A letter from Ist Lt, Jeha EeBeher, stationed at Camp Edwards, Mass., says, ". . . 'Jain Fiyaa is an army doctor assigned to the hospital trains hero at Camp Edwards. In the past two monthn he has managed to travel to just about all parts of the country.... At the present time Fm a bat* talion surgeon with a military police battafian.** ^ 
Vlace Garadurri. his wife, the former Kathlcrn Lloyd, and their infant son, bcffn in an intern­ment camp after the Japanese invaded the Philip­pines, are safe and in good health on Ncgros is­land, according to word received by Kathleen's father, Fraak W. LIsyd, Rome, N. T , former comptroller (rf the University. 
Paal Hdlmatfc, stationed in the Paris area, has been promoted to lieutenant coloneL Eaa. Jea Bams, Jr.. OkUhoma City, received his eaenais­d<m at the U. S. Coast Guard Academy's Beserre "naining School. New London. Coon. Ea 
Potenxianir whose vnte and two children, a little girl, four years old, and a boy, three months, live in Aurora. III., is on duty in the south Pacific. 
Capt. Benny Sheridan recently captured a Ger­man prisoner in such vn unusual manner that you wonder which was the more surprised. Benny says he dro\*e into a German vi!Isf;e looking for his outnt and bunked there for the night. ^Vhen he woke up in the morning he noted some' stirring near him and before Benny could do anything about it. a German soldier csme out, put up his hands, and yelled: '"KamsrEd!" 
V-Mail from MlSzt* Bob Dolan. Hawaiian Is­lands. ...".. . Just reporting in. Saw your latest issue on the boat coming over. A Capt. Kennedy of California gave it to me. He sends his regards to Art Haley and Herb Jones. He is in the infantry. Noticed references to Jordan Hamel and Jerry Feeney of the M2 class. If possible, would like for them to have my address." 
Lt. Jeriy Hoffan received his second gold star in lieu of a third DFC. The citation for the third award reads as follows: 
"For distin^juishing himself by heroism and ex­
traordinary achievement while participating in 
aerial flights as pilot of a carrier-based naval 
fighter bomber during the Allied invasion of 
southern France in August 1944. Lt. Hogan, in 
the face of great danger, made a series of low-
level strafing attacks upon an enemy motor trans­
port and troop convoy near the town of Balaruc, 
France, v.-ith su(*h good effect that as a result of 
his efforts and those of the five accompanying 
aircraft, four enemy tank trucks, 15 troop car­
rier trucks loaded with troops and one command 
car were destroyed. He made repeated runs on the 
target at very low levels despite the fact that in­
tense fire from the enemy met him on every occa­
sion, destroyed the hydraulic scptene and other­
wise damaged his plane, caused the loss of one 
plane and severe damage to another. Upon return­ing to his base, Lt. Hogan was unable to lower his flaps, but by extremely skillful airmanship, executed a faultless landing." 
1941 ^^ ^^^^ ^' P^'^^>*^°°* ^^'» SS30 
Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
A letter from Mrs. Vin Klorris, 15 Crest\*iew Rd., Mountain Lakes, N. J., to Mr. Patterson: 
"Received this month's 'Alumnus* today and noticed that Jack Gaitfaer inquired in his letter to you as to the whereabouts of ^^n Morris. . . . Vin was married in September, '41, joined the Navy in April. *43. and is now lieutenant (jg) somewhere in the Pacific on a YMS. He has two sons, ages 1% and 2^ . His brother. Jade, M2, has just been home on leave having just com­pleted transport duty. He is a captain in the Marines. He now reports to New River. N. C., 
•for training. 
"Vin has never bsen generous for his letter-writing, but he certainly enjoys reading about the boys in the N.D. 'Alumnus.' " 
Lt. Matt Byrnes shot down a Jap fighter plane over Tokyo, knocked out two others parked at an airfield on the outskirts of the Jap capital. ;and battered enemy hangars, according to a report received from the fleet. 2nd Lt. Jack Delaney, Newark Valley, N. Y., a veteran of the Pacific campaign, has reported for duty at Wright Field, Ohio. Jack enlisted in the Army in September, 1939, and went to Hawaii in December of that year. He has served in Australia and New Guinea, and was awarded the Silver Star, the DFC with cne oak cluster, the air medal and the Distin­jguished Unit citation. 
A B-17 bombardier. Lt. Bill Kramer, flew* 41 missions based in Italy. He was wounded by flak at Vienna, Austria, in June, 1944, and has been hospitalized in the U. S. since September. 1944. He holds the Purple Heart, and he has been rec­ommended for the DFC, and the Air Medal with threa oak leaf clusters. 
Na\-y Lt. Vincc Schirf, who spent 20 months en a destroyer escort vessel in the south Pacifi& visited his wife and two sons in South Bend in March. Lt, (jr) Al DelZoppo, who served on armed guard in the Atlantic and Mediterranean, visited the campus. March 26. while on a 15-day leave. Lt. Al Van Hnffcl and Lt. Joe Dr»y, '39. brothers-in-law, both serving in the Pacific fleet, recently ran into each other in the Philippines, according to word received from him by Al's wife, who now resides with her three children in South Bend. T/5 Walt Brodbeck, South Bend, is with the medical corps in France. 
Milt Piepnl, an assistant coach under Eari Brown, Dartmouth, during the last two seasons, is being retained as backfield coach. 
Apologies to Noel MacCarry, whom we mis­takenly described as a "reporter for the 'Sun-Telegraph' in Pittsburgh" in the last issue of the "Alumnus." Noel is with INS in Pittsburgh. 
Father Jim O'Hars was ordained to the priest­hood on April 8 in the Cathedral of the Immacu­late Conception, Springfield. III., by the Host Bev. James A. Griffin. D.D., A week later. April 15, Father O'Hara celebrated his first Solemn Mass in Visitation Church. Chicago. 
Capt. Fred Voelcwede, Decatur, Ind.. received his promotion recently in the CBT area. Fred is base quartermaster for an important outpost in India which is currently engaged in transporting vital war supplies over the famed Hump. He has been with the ATC in India since January, 1944. Cpl. John Haffner, Oak Park. 111., now missing in action, received the Air Medal. John was an aerial gunner with a heavy bomber crew sta­tioned Avith the 15th AAF in Italy. 
Lt. Bob Sagffan was a member of the Navy's air group 11. which recently returned from a tour of combat duty in the Pacific Julias Rivait, Mont­pelier. Vt.. after being selected from, the fleet for officer's qualities, completed 16 weeks of work in Colgate University's Navy Academic Refresher Unit (V-7) and reported to Columbia Universifar' Midshipman School. Jchn McDermott, research chemist, is working for Standard Oil in Bay-way, N. J. Lt. John Gaither is FPO. San Fran­cisco. 
The McLaaghlin twins, Harry and Larry, are back together again. 1st Lt. Larry came back from the Pacific recently and found himself in Squadron T at Turner Field. Ga-, an outfit com­manded by Maj. Harry. Last time they were to­gether was in New Caledonia, where Larry was assigned to Harry's B-25 squadron. 
Lt. Joe Miller, recently home in South Bend on a short leave, is communications officer on a de­stroyer in the Pacific. WUmott Brown, Wake­field. Mass.. is working for G.E. in Lynn, Mass. With his wife, he visited the campus on May 20. Their son was in the care of his grandparents in South Bend. 
2nd Lt. Gzorse Thompson, Jr., Parkersburg, W. Va., was platoon executive in the 398th anti­aircraft artillery battalion with the Sixth Army group in Germany. 
Sister Celine, S.S«I., Ph.D. *41. showed the 
N.D. film at Sisters College, Cleveland, on May 5. Enthusiasm ran high as to N.D. and the picture. 
Lt. (jc) Walt O'Meara has received the Air Medal for meritorious achievement as a ship-based observation plane pilot, on numerous naval gunfire spotting missions over enemy territory 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
last June and July. Walt is a veteran of the cam­paigns in the Marshall Islands, Marianas, and New Ireland. 
From Mrs. ChadE (Marion) Farrell to Jack Pat­terson on April 26: 
"With the arrival of the April 'Alumnus,' I saw that Don Macnire and Frank Hopkins have been wondering about Chuck, and, no doubt, there are others who'd like a few more details about Chuck's whereabouts. Shot down over Holland last Sept. 19. he was taken prisoner, and is now held at Stalag Luft No. 1 in northern Germany on the Baltic Sea. 
"During the four months he was missing. Notre Dame's prayers really meant a very great deal. Chuck wrote on Oct. 3, Nov. 3 and Nov. 17, and each time he st>oke of his gratitude for all the prayers he knew had been said for him, for only prayers and the grace of God are responsible for his safety. 
"As you probably know. Chuck was a glider pilot in the troop f^arrier command of the First Airborne Army. He also had considerable time in as C-47 Co. pilot, evacuating wounded, etc., but he was shot down in his glider. 
"Chuck and I were back at Notre Dame in Octo­ber, 1943, for the Georgia Tech game. Among the fellows Chuck saw that week-end were Don Ma­cvire (then in the Midshipman's School) and Lt. Charlie Crimmins, up for the game. Chuck looked up Jade Fitzpatrick, '43. then in the Navy pro­gram, now a lieutenant (jg) in Norfolk. Va. His brother. Bob Fltz, a lieutenant in the Signal Corps, is now in France. A recent letter from him tells of language difficulties, excellent French cooking and the beauty of French women in general. 
"Frank Lavelle was up this way last summer for his brother Ed's graduation from Midship-man's School. Chuck hasn't seen Frank since '41, so this was the first Farrell to see Frank for quite some time. Saw him again last January in New York and had a swell visit about the old N.D. days. 
"We ran into Lt. Bob Sullivan, '40, down at Laurinburg-Maxton Air Base in North Caroina last February. '44, just a few weeks before his embarkation — (and Chuck's company left in March, 1944.) Bob was intelligence officer with a troop carrier group — probably in France now as that outfit transferred from England last fall. 
"By the way. Law Meconi, '40, is practicing law, associated with a Plattsburg lawyer here. 
. ". . . the present 'man of the house,' our two­year-old Charley — Joe — so exactly like his dad you can't draw a line! He's 'Little Chuck,' in every way, and talks of nothing but when daddy comes home to 'play hall' with him! 
"Incidentally. Chuck received the Air Medal and Presidential Citation with cluster just before his last mission. 
"Almost forgot some important news. Some of the first fellows to greet him at Staleg Luft No. 1 were Notre Dame men! Said he'd met several N.D. men and nothing could have made him feel better just at that time ('cept maybe meeting me!) Andy PindEney, ex. '41, from Albany, was really in for a surprise when Chuck walked into his prison camp. (Chuck saw Andy in Albany three years ago.) Chuck also wrote of being with Lt. C«t Frands Gabreski. '42, ace fighter pilot in the ETO until he was shot do\vn last .summer. He told too, of daily rosary services and said he has two classes a week in apologetics. 
"There's lots more I would like to tell you, but 

this letter is too loni; already and you've had enoush for now. However. I do want to thank everyone for prayers offered for Chuck's safety — and would ask that you'd all keep the prayers goins — conditions in Germany are not too good right now for prisoners of war; prayers help so much. 
"My congratulations on your Bronze Star — and here's to Victory. Notre Dame, and your five-year class reunion, where I expect my Chuck to be in '46!" 
19^ 2 ^P^- Wiilimm E. Scanlon, Post GyninasiuTr, Ft. Sheridan, III. 
The following is from Mrs. Lashbrook regard­ing lawyers of the era: 
"The Bronr^ Star for meritorious service with the Ninth Army in France was awarded to Sjt. Ernie Timpani. Ernie was in charge of radio communications in the front lines and in spite of heavy German shelling he maintained the radio network and aided substantially in gaining the victory that took the Army into Germany, Ernie has seen ser\'ice in Luxembourg, Belgium. Hol­land and now Germany. 
"Lt. Joe Miller* U.S.N.R., was home on a brief leave from the Pacific while his ship was in dry dock. His service bar carries several stars. 
"Barney Grainey reports from Europe that he "zicged when he should have zagged" and spent two months in the hospital as a result Upon his release he was assigned to the staff of the "Stars and Stripes." 
"Major Bob Sullivan wrote the last of March. Bob was in the troop carrier group that took part in the crossing of the lower Rhine but could tell us little more than that. 
"Several months ago. we had a request from Jim Diver, with the Army in Europe, for news of Jack Meyer. Jack finally wrote from his posi­tion as a lieutenant with the 14th Armored Division of the 7th Army in Germany. He is the father of a 10-months old baby. Jack re­ported having seen Lt. Thompson, '41. who is with the field artillery battalion of his outfit. 
"Two interesting reports from opposite sides of the globe arrived recently. One from Cept. Alex Cholis who is assigned to the headquarters of the Ninth Army, asks for the APO numbers of Notre Dame men in his area. He believes he has a good chance of contacting them if they are anywhere within a reasonable distance. He inquired especially about Joe Miller, Bad Bernard, and John Verdonk. He will get the news about Joe from this report, but I had no recent news about either of the other two. He reported that his brother. Nick, is now a full lieutenant in the Navy, and is stationed in Hawaii, and that his other brother, Gus, is in Bermuda, 
"The second very special letter came from Jim Daner in the Phillipines. He had finished 34 misions for the Air Corps and had only seven or eight more to go for his quota. He «aid he had missed seeing Andy Chemey by two days. 
A letter dated March 26, came from Jerry O'Dowd in the Pacific! "I saw Joe Barr recently and he thought I should 'co-edit' the word from this sector. We came into port for repairs early in March, which enabled me to get onto the beach where I have had great luck in seeing Notre Dame people.' 
" 'First there was Father BoIand» now a chap­lain on a transport. Another afternoon four members of the class of 1940 showed up. They were Tom Dnffy, first lieutenant with the Marine Corps (Chicago). Pmt O'Neill, Lt. U.S.N.R.. (Montclair, N. J.), Dave Holman, Lt. U.S.N.R. (Washington.) and Bob Lodire. Lt, U-S-N.R. (Indianapolis). 
" 'Not long before at another stop I saw Bill Sdtaller, now a lieutenant with the U.S.N.R. 
Lt. Col. Frank GabreslD* released from a German prison camp, was a cv*st at Notre Dame on June 7-8, with his brother. Major Ted, '34. Frank was married on June 11. 
who is a torpedo pilot and had seen much action with the famous Task Force 58. Al O'Meara, was out this way too. and I had the good fortune to see him several times durins November and December.' 
" 'Cap Jehring, '41. recently of the FBI and now an ensign, Lt. Jim Spellraan, of the Army Air Force and Bob Osborne, Lt. U.S.N.R. also of the 1941 class, have been seeen out this way. In fact, through the 'Alumnus, I was able to find Jim who told me the interesting story of going onto Saipan while the fighting was still on. carrying a cool million bsrries with which to pay his group. For post' war employment the American Bankers* Association should be notified.' 
" 'Of the class of '43, there has been present Ist Lt. Kevin 0*Toole, U.S.M.G,. of Chicago. Ed Bicker* Lt. USNR, of Detroit, and Tern Swceacy. Lt. USNR. of Indianapolis. I have hopes of seeing the Stateside in June and hope to see you in South Bend then, when I'll be able to amplify my report' " 
"Henry Anderson was home on furlough recently because of the illness of his wife. Except for a glimpse of him at dinner in a downtown restaurant I did not have a chance to see him for a visit. Jim McGoldridc wrote the dean a week or so ago, and indicated that he hoped to get into law practice if the war ends. He was preparing to take the New York bar examinations. 
"Tom Cain was recently n^med court commis­sioner in connection with his law practice in Niles, Mich. Warren Deahl was in for a few minutes several weeks ago while he was home on a leave and reported that his next address would have an overseas APO number. 
"Leo Linck wrote from Scott Held. Ill-, where he is studying to become a radio operator for the Air Corps. One of the girls he met was a cousin of Joe Barr, Josephine Gibbons, so they had a good talk cbout Joe. 
**Ted Frericks was given a medical discharge from the Navy and is presently working in the legal department of the Curtiss Aircraft Co. in Columbus, O. Ted sent along a picture of his young son for our collection of the younger generation of lawyers. 
**LL B a nsrisiil was home on leave not Ions «SO. He has been quite ill and has bscn hospitalixed at his station in New if*^***, Bsny Harray, who is with the Board of Bdoeatioo in Chieagbw visited the campus not Ions vo . 
"Inquiries have been made of us for news of Jack Bany» Iferv. Bave>» Jl a Nca. and Ed PsrtcB. We had no recent news of any of them. 
*«Lt. Graham McGawan. '43. of the AAF visited the campus the week of May 21. He was commissioned at the Enid Army Air Field. Enid. Okla.. on May 23." 
From Sceap Scaalaa: 
Let's open this time with a comnnmiqne from Floyd (Shidi) Kiehavis, who should be happily married by now! Congratulations. 
On May 14, Shish wrote: **. . . The gal is Katherine Wbelan, the former receptionist here at Station WTIC. and the day is to be May 19. .. . I have been fortunate in having Lee Baiby ... . as my best man. He's just eome back from Lozon and points Padfie. X only wish that some of the other boys could be around. 
"I met up with the first Notre Dame man that I've iseen in these parts in a long time the other day. He's Fnudc Alieam who works in the Travelers Insurance Co. He reports th::t there are Quite a few of the boys in town and that we'll get together one of these nights. 
"I last heard from Capt. Jiai CLaagUia befne the Okinawa invasion, so X suppose that he was in on that, being with the ¥trst Marines, He and all the rest of the boys certainly do deserve an extra prayer. . . I'm wondering how to locaSe T« 
From a San Francisco address. Capt. D, Ceaaais. Jr.. air-mailed on 3 April: .. . I hope that you will be able to get some eopies of the 'Ahumus' out here to me. Yesterday I got the August. 1944, edition. Gosh, it shouldn't take that long, yon know. 
"It's been a long 15 months in Guinea and the Philippines." 
We're passing on the dope to Bill Deefcy and 
Ca, Don, and hope for the best-
Here's another air-mail, dated March 25, from a New York APO, from Ut Lt. Tarn FMey: ". . . . I dropped out in 1940 and married my better half. . . . Lt. (j.g.) Jahn Gavin (my roommate in Freshman Hall) and I managed to get two of our leaves at the same time. He is a real person and has a wonderful wife. 
"I have run into a few fellows in my visit ov ^ here. Jiai Newland. '41. paid me a visit here in the hospital the other day. I was hit several times in my leg, so I have been enjoying the hos­pitality of this ^athem hospital. It beats the tanks. ... . I am one of Patton's boys. I was commissioned in June, 1942, from my Civil Service job in Dallas and have been with the 12th Armored Division ever since. 
"B^ regrets and many prayers for all of the boys who have met death in this war-I did not know them all too well, but judging them as all Notre Dame wea should be judged, I have no fears of their reward in Heaven. 
"I wrote to ask a favor. All the. beys yon meet or have a diance to talk to,—remember me to th^n. I did not return after 1940, but I fol­lowed eadi and every one possible through the years that followed." 
Tom's address is available tither through me at the Post Gymnasium, Fort Sheridan, HI., or the Alumni OSce- Write him. 
It was April 8 that Ens. George UM wrote from a submarine here. New London, Conn-: 
"I*m here waiting for the next sub school class to start and -am temporarily attached to a sub­marine, on which we make daily training runs. I'm livinc; ashore in a B.O.Q., and just go to the boat each morning. 
"There are three other fellows here: Lt. (j.ff.) Tom Teamey and Lt. (i-K-) Bill Baader, '42, and one other fellow fmm another class. Teamey [is] on a boat now and Baader is in the school. 
"I had a week home after iinishing in Boston. I visited Boston ... . called Dr. Coomes but didn't get a chance to see him. I also called Bob Witte, but heard that he had gone home for a few days. I met Paal Slick who is there for some special work. I only had a few minutes to talk with him." 
Ilie Chicago "Sun" on May 22 reported the visit of the then Postmaster Frank Walker who "was far more interested in talking about a new halfback he has signed up for Notre Dame than in discussing stamp issues or politics. The new player is Frank C. Walker, grandson of the post­master general, bom yesterday in New York City. The father is Walker's son. Tom." 
When George UM mentioned Tom Teamey it recalled an incident I had one night at the Fort Sheridan Club. One of the girls who attended a dance was Kay Samon of Chicago.—and her Senior Ball guest at Visitation high school some years back was —^Tom Tearne>*. and she remem­bered a friend. Jim Lavelle. 
On ISaster Sunday. I happened into Father Broucliml* en route to Lake Forest. He had been visiting Jim Keams. On another occasion, I bumped into Sgt. Dan Roach who was studying radio at Truax Field, Madison, Wis. He re­ported that Rill Reffan, still with the physical fitness department, was married not so long ago to a nurse. 
On April 30, the mother of Jerry Killigrew "wrote this fine letter: 
"Through the kindness of Mr. Doolcy of the Notre Dame 'Alumnus,' I have received several copies of the 'Alumnus.' I noticed the item written about Jerry and Paul Kashraer. In one of the last letters written by Jerry, he made in­quiries regarding P^ul and asked us what we heard about him. The October 'Alumnus* carried an account about Paul. I sent it to Jerry to­gether with clippings about the Notre Dame football team. A few weeks ago, I got the entire package back- Jerry never got them. I agree v.-ith you it's so bard to believe that they will not come hack, in fact it is impossible to believe it. 
"The boys have been so wonderful. I have had the nicest letters from Robert Lonergan. Ted McDonald, Neil McCarty, Jerry Gillespie, John Halone, Mrs. Lashbrook, Father Broaehal and others. Jerry loved Notre Dame. It's so bard to think that it is all ended now." 
Ray Donovan is to be assistant to Walter Ken­nedy in the Notre Dame publicity office, starting June 1. Ray, who ser\'ed on the Notre Dame publicity staff after graduation in 1942. was sports editor of the Logansport, Ind., "Pharos-Tribune" before getting the call hack to his Alma Mater. 
Leiffh SKUinn called the Fort Sheridan Ath­letic Office the other day, reporting his interest in trying out for a Post golf team. And he shares it with Georve Costello, another ex. N.D. Eolfer stationed here. A third ex-Notre Damer snd outstanding golfer is Bill Sticklen of Baker and Cook basketball repute. He ended the season with a scoring record of more than 500 pcnnts. second in the midwest only to DePaul's Ed Mikan. 
The Great Lakes 'Bulletin* of May 4 an­nounced that Lt. (JK) Ed Riika is to be cited for heroism in the Philippines invasion. Ed was the basketball ace at Great Lakes following graduation from Notre Dame. 
On May 14 the liberation of Lt. CoL Fnnk S. Gabrefki, ranking ace of the U. S. 8th Air Force, was announced. He was among four 17. S. fiyers who had been imprisoned at Stalag Luft 1, Barth, Germany. The 26-year-old flyer, former member of the class of '42, was captured by the Germans last July when he made a crash landing near Coblenz. 
Gabreski flew with the RAF at one time after he was sent to England in 1942 and specialized- in combat vnth the RAP'S Polish squadron.^-t The late Polish General Sikorski decorated/him vnth the Polish cross for valor. He also''wears the distinguished service cross, the silver star, distinguished flying cross with six oak leaf clusters and the air medal with four clusters. Gabreski, whose home is Oil City, Pa., shot 28 German planes out of the air and destroyed three aground before being re­ported missing on July 20. 1944, shortly before he was expected to receive a furlough to come back to the U. S. and be married to Hiss Kay Cochrane of Prairie du Chien. Wis. 
News of May 21 also reported that Lt. Fred­erick R. Fnnk, Notre Dame student until 1943. and co-pilot of a B-24 bomber, was liberated from a prison camp in Austria. He was earlier reported missing in action over Austria since April 2.=>. An older brother. IJSKL Albert P., debater at Notre Dame, has recently recovered from wounds received in Germany while serving with an armored outfit. 
A V-mail from a San Francisco FPO, dated early in April; from Lt. J. H. Ford: 
"I have been doing a bit of moving about of late, but I only recently realized that almost half the distance has been covered to our five-year reunion. I thought I should say hello at once. 
"I have been a part of the Navy since Sep­tember '42. I had indoctrination at Dartmouth college and then was sent to Panama. I worked in Cristobal for two years—during which time I saw several Notre Dame men. Among them were Dick Kerrigan* '41, Larry KeDey. Bill Baader. After finishing my tour in Panama, I came to the States for a short leave and then was sent out here to the Islands. 
I haven't been here too long, but I have been told that there is an N.D. club in the vicinity. I'm in the process of tracking the boys down in' my spare hours (which aren't too plentiful right now). 
"Issues of the 'Alumnus* managed to reach me—although not too regularly. I guess tbe Panamanians were reading them instead of me. Anyway, I really enjoyed reading your reports on the boys. Scoop, and am looking forward to getting the latest word." 
Don't forget to take time off and drcqi a line. Mail dropped off a bit this month. Let's get the ball rolling so everyone knows more about the others' for that 5-year reunion. Any ideas in it. send them in. Let's get ball rollinsr. on the 5-year reunion NOW. In the meantime, remember: 
IF IT'S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 
Pvt. UK* Rom* in the Pacific theater, is a monber of the Engineers Corps. Ugo was gradu­ated from Ft. Belvoir, Va., as a topographic draftsman. While at Ft. Belvoir he met John Carney, '42, who was teaching a class. Set. Paol Neville was in Belgium. He is connected with the AAF public relations office. Lt. Bob Maddock re­turned to the west coast with Mrs. Maddock in March after spending a leave in South Bend. Bob has seen a lot of the hot stuff with the Navy in the Pacific 
A letter from Lt. Kelly Cook. '44, April 4. Italy, 15th AAF: ". . . I'm very much alive after 20 missions and feel lucky enough to go 15 more, and then a shot at home. This time I should have time to visit the campus. If so, it will probably be with a bride, for I was recently engaged to Miss Joanne Brault of Sioux City, Iowa, a French-Catholic lass I met at Tucson, Ariz., while in flight training. . . . I've run into only one for­mer N.D. man in this bomber group. He is (pres­ently) Pfc. Daniel Patrick McGlynn Ryan of E:ast St. Louis. . . . News of anyone else is rather scarce, except for my very good and close friend, Lt. John M. Considine, ex. '45, of Boston, who traveled the rocky road all the way through cadet training with me and is now flying for ATC." 
Recently assigned to a B-24 liberator group op­erations staff as a navigator was 1st Lt. John Saner. Forest Hills, L.I. Marine 1st Lt. Bob Hnl­ihan, with 16 months of overseas duty, reported to the Marine Corps Air Station at Cherry Point. 
N. C for duty with the Ninth Marine aircraft wing. At Camp Crowder, Mo., in April, Bmce Hebenstreit. Albuquerque, N. M., was promoted to first lieutenant. Marine Ist Lt. Andy Chlebcck, St. Paul, was wounded by a sniper's bullet in the fighting on Iwo Jima. Two days previously, he escaped serious injury when he mancged to throw himself clear of bursting Jap mortar shells and sniper fire close to his foxhole. 
Capt. Jim Porcell received the DFC. After serving 12 months as a battalion surgeon in the southwest Pacific, Capt. Jacob Halperin. South Bend, has returned to this country. Jacob has been awarded the Asiatic-Pacific campaign ribbon with one battle star and the Philippine Liberation cam­paign ribbon. T/4 Charlie C^rcs, Casper, Wyo.. overseas 31 months, wears the Mediterranean The­ater ribbon with one battle participation star and has been awarded the Good Conduct medal. 
Lt. (jc) Byron Hayes is hack from 21 months of IMays and beachheads' in the Pacific Ocean. His first contact with the Japanese was at Ta­rawa, and that fierce engagement remains the most horrible in his mind, though later he went in on D-day to the beachheads of Guam, Kwnjal Bougainville and' Hollandia. Lt. (jg) Bob Raaf, naval aviator, is also on duty in the Pacific, and Jim Bnrkart is materials engineer at the Naval Air Experimental Station. Navy Yard, Philadel­phia. 
From Lt. <jg) Bob Miller. FPO. San Francis­co: ".. . a few days ago a handful of fellows seemed to find each other at a little cocoanut hut which covered a bar and called 'Crowley's Officer's Club.* It was on a little, hot south Pacific island that you would have thrown a stone across. The gang included Father Red Barron, Jerry Flynn. '40, Boh Raaf, '42, Sparrow. '37, another Notre Dame man and mysel f. What a party we did have! Father Barron is our chaplain and is a prince. I remember when we used to take the col­lection for Red Barron of China back at school. Raaf and Flynn are on two other big carriers out here. Saw Howie Korth, '41, and Billy Mo Gannon on another little island a couple of months ago and, of course, when we are lucky enough to get back to Pearl we just stumble all over each other. Have a swell N.D. club there." 
1st L t Ken Rohyans. holder of the Silver Star, 

wrote from Germany about the meeting of his 29th division and the Russians on May 2 at a small town called Schnackenbur^ on the bank of the Elbe River. Ken was the first man of his di­vision to meet the Russians, which is something; to write home about. 
194 3 ^^ ^^^^ Edward C. Roney, 
1723 Iroquois Ave., Detroit, 
Mich. 

In view of new duties which are taking him throughout the country and making no allow­ances for much letter-receiving or letter-writing. Red Lonercan had to resign his job as co-handler, with Ed Honey, of this *43 column of chatter. The "Alumnus'* staff — and we know that the whole *43 class would join in the sentiments — thank him heartily for his magnificent job for the class over the past couple of ycnrs. The time and effort which he gave to writing *43 news gave a lot of pleasure to a lot of lads, especially to those in the faraway places of the world. 
Pete Moritz, Mansfield. O., medically discharged kecause of an eye injury sustained in the Nor­mandy invasion, visited the campus May 25-26. Three men in the same room with Pete were killed as shrapnel pelted them. Pete, who served aboard an LST, is now in the coal business with his father. 
Lt. (it) Jim McElroy returned home from overseas after serving in the European theater for 20 months. Jim took an active part in the D-day invasion and was assigned to an LST boat and thereafter to sub-chaser duty. A brother. SySgt. Andrew McElroy^ '44, was with Gen. Pat-ton's army in Germany. 
V.-mail from 1st Lt. Jack Baringer: *'I took a busman's holiday last week — and flew over to_ Cosserta, Italy, to cook up a newly formed Notre Dame club. 1st Lt. Wesley Fry, ex. *44, and I lo­cated three members of the organization and had a big bull session. We found C»pt. A. N. Galone, '27, Capt Doozan, '39, and Major John E. Fox. *36. After batting the breeze about N.D. for about four hours and looking over Doozan's valuable collection of your magazines, we went to Naples where we met Bill Murphy, ex. '44. Murph is finished with his sorties and is headed for St. Louis. Fry and I have not qiute completed our missions but we hope to be back on the campus for a visit by the middle of June. We are both in the same B-I7 outfit Bill Earley is here in Italy some place, but we haven't seen him. 
Promoted direct from the ranks to second lieu­tenant in the medical administrative corps was Al Masters, Beaver, Pa. Al entered the Army in August. 1941. and departed for overseas the fol­lowing July. Since then he has served in Syria. Egypt, Libya, Tunisia and Italy. 
From ^ Ed Roney: 
How about some of you guys getting on the ball and dropping us a line? Some of the class haven't been heard from since graduation, and most of them not over once or twice. This month marks two years since graduation for some of you and two and a half years for the majority. And let's get after that Annual Alumni Fund also and break our excellent record of last year. We can hit 100 percent if we try. 
Heard that Jim Byrne and Bill O'Brien have become benedicts during the last two months. Jim's in the Navy at sea now. I believe, and Bill was at an army hospital on its staff last I heard. 
I read about Edward D. McKim becoming the administrative assistant to President Truman. Ed would have been very proud of his father in a position like that. 
Letters this month include one from TM B Maloney who says: "Many's the time I recall those days in Morrissey. I'll never forget the night Morrin and MeGowan were cbasins yoa all over the place with a saber. Oliver and I had a heck of a time getting them to bed. Morrill doesn't know how close I came to clip* ping him that night as I thought sura Fatlwr McCarragher would como tearing down the hall any minute. But that was half the fan of college. Those were the things we'll all be able to tell our kids some day. 
"I saw in the "Sporting News" where Jaluuqr McHale is supposed to play the outfield this season. It said also that he's back at N.D. to get his degree. [He left the campus in Janu­ary to join the Tigers.—Eds.] My two brothers finally signed to play with Wilkes-Barre in the Eastern League. One catches and the other pitches." 
*'Leo Sdafani is on Atlantic Patrol on the ... . He still plans to go back to get his degree. I'm coming along slowly but surely. I had pneu­monia out at school, so by the time I came hcHue and got to a hospital I had gone frm 175 to 123 pounds. You can imagine what I looked like. .. . I did hear, though-that Ed Naesl; was due home soon." 
Blair McGowan when he wrote the following was looking across the Rhine: "A letter came from Bob Morill the other day and he's well and cherishing six bottles of whiskey he was fortunate enough to get his hands on. 
"A week ago I went back from the front for a three day pass to Heerlen. Holland. They have a G.T. beer garden in the town and 'by accident.' I wandered in there one day (after waiting out­side an hour for it to open) and whom should I find holding forth at a table but Frank Kaiser of N.D. and Chicago. Frank and I had quite a bottle of Scotch which he was saving for the war's end. but we decided it might take too long, so the reunion was even better. Frank Is a platoon sergeant in a chemical outfit. 
The last two letters I'll combine into one as they're both from ol' J. J. Bedccr: "Met Ed Powers out here the other day on an ADD. Met Chuck Kane the other day akd he's on a. crash boat. 
"At present we are playing o'.t me Acey Duecy finals in the wardroom so don't be surprised nt anything you find in the le:ter. Had the surpriie of a lifetime when Ed Sandom was triinsfei-rcd aboard the other day for teiopor.iry rluty. That made three N.D. men aboard. Almost enough to hold a club meeting. We had a swell time tJ.lk­ing over old times together. They've made a communicator out of him. You will he in*orested to know that I'm now communications ofTicer aboard. I fought like hell, tut there was no way out so I am it. Tucked another invasion under our belts today, so we're off to some i.:ce semi-quiet place. Hope to-get to see ClwdE KIBK again in the near future and have been keeping my eyes open for your brother or Ed Hickey* lu t with no luck. 
"Have about made up my mind to go to law school when this thing Is over. Michitnn may be the place." 
I hope to see the States in two montis with a little luck. Now that the Navy's pointing west­ward I'll probaby be on my way soon. It's almost 19 months down here now. . . Please write. 
For his navigational leadership on an Im­portant mission over Yugoslavia, Capt. Bad Dudley, Philadelphia, received the DFC. S 1/a Frank Knnkcl, New Gardens, N. Y., began train­ing in weather observation at the U. S. Naval 
39 

Air Station, laUrarst. N. J^ in Kavck. Awaife. ins >' new aadsnment at the Ahar&Btm Tnftimg Ground. Md.. was 2 M Lt. Stratto OHI M 
CpL J«ha Wha— , Detroit nyirwi 1< montlH; is the owner of the MefitcnaBaaa Hia ^ ter Ribbon.with two battle paTtiriBatloa itars and the coiBliat infantryman's badce, the Vwrpie Heart and the Good Condnet medaL A MWS release said he was a clerk-tTpist with the llltt h miitary police company. Allied Fore* Head­quarters. Italr-
On April 2. CpL Mim CDia'a motbtr beard that he was at Iwo JIma and had been woaad­ed by shrapnd in the hip and calf of zi^K hs. He wrote that it was nothinc to wcnmr ahoat* "thank God." Jim has a aim, James L. ODca, in, bom in LoweU. Mass., on Jan. II. 
Because of an old knee injnry, F/O Jtfea War­ner recetved a nedieal £sdiarse in April. He is bade in New Haven. Conn. 
While Lt. (J«) Dan Hdtad may be in the States to impart the following news jtcrsonally to his Abends, we'd like to iioote a few para­graphs from his last letter: **... . Saca my last letter we have been on the n m qoite a bit —nine maior invasions since L^t e in idl parts of the Philippines. '. . . Even thon^ the mail is pretty well foaled up, Jat Dray and I occawfcwH ally n m into Notre Dame men with news from the States more recent than '44. One of tha first I met in the Philippines was Ja A D>aBag# a eorre^Kmdent tor the Chicago "Son.** He came aboard to eover the De& 7th attack oa Ormoc City. Leyte. We were mnninff throogli Surigaq Strait before we discovered wc bodi had attended Notre Dame—he in the eariy thirtiei. he said. Ormoe. by the way wasn't a very pleas­ant place to reminisce about alma mater. We spent most of a word afternoon beating off Jap planes—not to mention a Nip fleet that was blasted off the horizon at the same time. Diey had a calling card for Ormoe also, but we beat them in by two hoars. -My ship knocked down two Japs, bnt that was small try eoaqnuad .to, the more than fifty that fell that afemoon. Dowl­ing later wrote a story aboat the ahip whidi appeared in the "Son." 
"Since Ormoc and daring the coarse ai the lingayen, Nazagba and et cetera operational Fva metXt. (js> Jeha Pleaff, who worked with Father FfidiBglaa back at sdiool; Lt. (jr) Claiia Lam­bert» who used to room with Cimct ¥i alaiw . Lt> Chadc McCartlor* who graduated firaas Coai-^. merce in 1940; Lt. (iff) JaA Dasaa^ who is on a fleet tug oat here; and Eaa. Al Vaa Haflid. IX.B., '41, who also happens ito eoaw froaa a v home town, Warren, O.. Bal roommate in Ahmmi during oar operates a FT from this base, and I hope to contact him before we shove off. Dosaa said. that Jeha Gareeaa is also on a ship present. I jost missed Lea Keatiaff on D-Day Tip at Linca­yen. He passed ns several times in a Wifg™* boat, makinK runs into the beach. And jait ia the way of caff notes: there was a FT called 'fl^tinff Irish' (derating at Palawan when we were there: and Jae Dray passed the word that a Notre Dame ahmmos is livins in the city of Bacolod, Negros. hot we didn't (at into the city after the attack, so I coaldn't dieek. 
**And that brings me op to the present- Am. going on my 20th months overseas now, and I have Stateside mdcrs in the maiL Jaa iDfay has already started on his way back. I mdiew stand—he happened to catch his mail after we finidied the Fanay (deration.** 
Lt. Wkm Fisdk, Fsirmont Minn., is a i of the first groop of t^Scers from Boca Sabai Army Air Field, to receive their discharga 1 
the Adjusted Ser\*ice Point Plan. Mike had amassed 88 points. He was to report to the separation center at Camp McCoy, Wis., for his release from the AAF. He entered the service in June 1942; in May. 1944, he went overseas and flew 35 missions with the Sth AAF. Mike received the DFC, the Air Medal with five oak leaf clusters, a unit citation and five stars to his ETO ribbon. He returned to the States in January, 1945. 
At the 15th AAF bomber base in Italy, 1st Lt. Bill Earley of Parkersburg. W. Va-. was decorated with the DFC. He has been previously awarded the Air Medal, Presidential Unit Cita­tion and the Purple Heart It is now Ens. Francis Hillenbrand, naval aviator recently com­missioned at Pensacola, Fla. Marine Sgt* Jim PUnipoff, South Bend, is serving in the Mar* shall Isands in the central Pacific with a unit of the Fourth Marine aircraft wing. Dippy Evans has sisned with the Cleveland AIl-Americans-The Dipper is now a lieutenant stationed at Randolph Field. Texas. 
A long and welcome letter came in from Lt. (j») Jade Tobin, c/o FPO, San Francisco, to Jim Armstrong: "Not two weeks ago I ran into Keith O'Roailce, in the Officer's Club of the Hotel Leamington, Oakland, Calif. He is the same Keith, with his usual pipe. He is a naval pilot and was stationed at Moffitt Field. He had seen Neal Green that afternoon. Neal was sup­posed to come back to the hotel later in the evening but never arrived. He asked me about Bin Dinon and. of course. I knew less than he. Guess Dillon is one of the wandering souls no one knows anything about 
"On the train coming back off of leave I ran into Fadier John Barlce, former prefect of Dis­cipline. He was the last person in the world I exx)ected to see that Sunday on the Coast Day­light He was on his way to catch the Penn­sylvania. He gave me quite a bit of dope about Notre Dame, having been away from the cam­pus only a couple of weeks. Said he had seen Joe Petritz*8 brother. I looked for Joe all over the Pacific and particularly around the Philip­pines without any success. Never knew George Petritc had been liberated until I got home in late March. 
"During a stay in Pearl Harbor last summer I attended two Notre Dame club meetings and saw a number of fellows. Bob Fanght was present along with Ralph Yinceguerra from the '42-'43 basketball team. Jack Weithoff and Babe Mnrphy dropped in along with John Hickey from the class of '44. Frank Leahy was present the last time T was there." 
"I read an entire year and a half of 'Alumnus' while I was home on 24-day leave. I'm still looking for about 50 percent of my Christmas presents. 
"Saw Don Davis, '44, out in the central Padfic on my way back. He is on a new destroyer as supply officer. Likes it very much but like us all wanted to get back home. Saw Pat Donovan in Long Beach whie I was home. Also saw Jim Blahoney, out of *44, one night in Long Beach's equivalent of Chicago's Down Beat Jim was waiting to sail and Pat was buying a rail ticket to Seattle for duty when I saw him." 
1944 ^'^ ^^^ ^ Lynch, USA 
General Hospiul, Ward B-9, 
Camp Pickett, Va. 
From Ji&nny Lynch: 
•With complete victory in Europe all eyes are focused on the war in the Pacific Rightly then will open with a letter from out that way. A new­ly made lieutenant jg. John Anhat, writes from 
his new ship: 
"As you will notice I am on a different ship now, as the went back to the States and left me at Pearl Harbor. I am assistant gunnery officer plus being a division officer so the work keeps me pretty interested. I was beach-master on the , and that was a job in a million as both sides of the picture were unveiled to me—^the Army's side and the Na\-y*s side. "While on her we made six invasions in about one year's time. 
"Bod Knhn wrote recently, and he is at a Naval Air Station in California enjoying the sunshine to the utmost. Jim Byrne got married as well as Bob Fisher—lucky men in getting such lovely wives. Jack Hnghes is in Rockford, HI., tnring to get started on a business career. It's going to be a great day when this mess is over and we can get together once again." 
Let's give an ear to Chnck Patterson, who bas returned from the Pacific, where he flew for the Naval Air Force. 
"In October, 1942, I joined V-5 as an avia­tion cadet; was called to duty Jan. 12. 1943* and training began, after being commissioned in March, 1944. I went to Miami for operational, and to sea in June. Most of the time out I was with Air Group 19 as pilot of a carrier based torpedo bomber. We were with Admiral Mitscher's Task Force 3S and struck the Philippines and For­mosa and took part in the Battle of Leyte Gulf. It was a rather exciting business, and I'm very grateful and happy to be safely back. 
"After returning from the Pacific I was sent to Air Group 97, a pilots* pool, for reassignment to a new combat squadron. They didn't waste any time and I got orders to Night Torpedo 55. 
"I've seen Jim Cunningham a couple of times: in South Bend in October, 1943, and in Chicago last spring. And I hsd a Christmas card from good old Jim Newman from France. Also a card from Kelly Cook with the 15th AF in Italy. I hope we can all get together again in the Caf in the not-too-distant future 
"One day when /he carrier was at anchor in the S.W. Pacific, I was standing on the shore watching small boats from the ships in the hprbor corae in with loads of men for recreation parties. I felt a brawny hand grasp my shoulder firmly . from behind. I turned around and it was our boy John Anhot. It's a great feeling to meet some­one you know like that. 
"That's about it for right now. Take it easy and get healed up in a hurry. . . . Hie 'Alumnus' always comes, however late." 
Thanks for the letter. Chuck, and by the time you read this in the "however late 'Alumnus' *' I'll be taking my first steps with the aid of a leg brace. 
Tom Clemens is in Billings General Hospital. Indianapolis, and I think he'll be doing just about the same. Tom was wounded in Ehirope—but let him tell the story: 
"Jerry artillery got me in Germany on Nov. 
24. Shrapnel through the left leg a couple of inches above the knee. I spent six weeks in a 'pin traction' in England, and two and a half months in a spike cast, hips to toes on left leg and to my right knee. I spend part of my time in a device to exercise my left knee joint, and just stay in bed other^vise­
"I went overseas June 23 as a replacement, joined the Eighth Infantry Di\*ision as a rifleman July 17. Tramped all over Normandy, then be­sieged Brest and got a shoulder wound from a kraut mortar shell. Back to England, hospital, re­placement pools; back to France, and rejoined the 28th re^ment in Luxemburg. Then came Ger­many and wound number two. 
"By this time I know of the deaths of Steve CRoarke, Francis Murphy, Hngfa HcHogfa and Walter Barton. I knew these fellows, and it was a shock to see the news in the 'Alumnus.* . . . Hank Dewes is an ensign now. What of Jim Cnn­ningfaam?** 
Last we heard. Tom, Jim was heading for ac­tion in the Pacific. If he reads this- maybe he'll let us know how things are. 
Back in 1940-*41 two boys who were running on the freshman track team were Larry Stahl and Walt Bsrry- Today they're in the final lap at the letters have come from Lrrry recently and he can tell of a really rugged way to get that one gold stripe : 
"This place is a real grind. The first year you can't even date, or drag as we call it, and just get the hell run out of you by the upper class. The second year the rcademics are tougher. Every time you walk into a class you get a mark, so you have to study every lesson. Nothing like col­lege ; no cuts either. First class year is much nicer as you are the kings of this place. 
"The Navy's a mighty fine career and the boys I've met and lived with here belong in the same class as thnt gang we used to know at Notre Dame. TTiey sure were fine boys. I'm still living with Walt Barry and he is still the same joker he was when he was known as *Hot-Foot' Barry back in good old Brownson Hall. 
"It will all be over June 6. That's graduation day. I will be an ensign then and three years here will be over. It •will have been an awfully long time. I'm including N.D. on my list of stops after graduation. 
"P.S. I never did have any love for the West Point cadets, but after what they did to N.D. I want absolutely no p-rt of them. They'll regret it some day." 
Larry's second letter's dated nearly four months after his first, but it cm e by direct mail, not by way of Italy as some of my mail still comes. 
"We graduate June 6. and then I go to Jack­sonville for a month. Then a month's leave; then to New London for submarine training. Yes, I'm going to the 'pig boats.' I think I'll like them, too. s 
"I was already familier with that dope you passed along, but what do you know of Paul Arens? Walt Barry has been one of my room­mates ever since I came here. He's been doing some mighty fine running here. Heard from Frank Waldeck recently. He is, to quote: 'playing cowboy and Indian with the Krauts.'" 
Jerry Skofronick, still in Washington, D. C. sends along one of his usual newsy letters: 
"Hike Pessemier wrote from Camp Li\*ingston, La., that he was again in the midst of a basic refresher course preparatory to a trip on the 'banana boat.' 
**Jim Kelly, former basketball manager, wrote from Germany. Unfortunately I don't have his letter any more, but he's attached to the com­munications platoon .of a battalion headquarters in the 18th Infantry Division; He was in Europe in time to participate in the battle of the Bulge, though I don't believe he arrived much before that. He said that he occasionally hears from ChadE Vrmcla and Austin Jones, both naval of­ficers, on a battleship and an L something or other respectively. 
"John Hickey, still in Hawaii, said he'd seen Frank Leahy. He had also r^ashed old times with Jtrfuiny Prince and Tom Brennsn, but the latter two are apparently at sea again. 

"Recently I met my first N.D. man since leav­ing Camp Croft. He is Ed Hanrahan, class of '42. and by a strange coincidence, lives in the same barracks. He *basiced* at Fore Riley alon? with Ed Cuhman and that crowd." 
News direct from Notre Dame comes from Tom Bremer* now one of the N.D. La\\-yers. 
"Kermit Ronsseve is bzck on campus^ after spending a year in the Army. He received a med< ical discharge a few months ogo. Also back here for the last six months is Tom Kane who was in our class. Ben Mammina is in law school now, and Tony Rene is back in commerce after a dis­charge. 
"Buzz Hassett is working in Iowa, and Bob Fanght is out in the Pacific, but I've forgotten the name of his ship. Gene Carney was working in Binghamton, N. Y., for Remington the last I heard from him. Bill MoUigan was commissioned last year and I heard that he is doing duty in the Pacific." 
According to a late "Scholastic" that we've seen, Bremer was handling the tickets for the 1945 Bengal Bouts and Rousseve was back in the ring to meet all challengers for the 145-pound title he won in 1942. 
That's all for a while. If you're '44, and you read this, drop a line. 
Lt. Jacques Veenemsn, AAF, is c/o Postmaster, San Francisco. The Fourth Marine division participating in the invasion of Iwo Jima was well-peppered with Notre Dameers. Hospitalized as the result of wounds caused by Jap mortar fire in that invasion was Lt. George Schneider. Interesting items from Ens. John Riley's letter c/o FPO, San Francisco: "Two other officers on board are Notre Dame graduates, so we practi­cally have a Notre Dame club. They are Joe Harphy, '35, and Dan Kelley, '44 both are lieu­tenants (jg). Tom Cody, ex. *44. is one of the Marines now on board. . . . Last month we were in the invasion of Iwo Jima. and what a battle that was I It was truly an experience to land with the Marines on a bitterly defended Jap island. .. . I met Dom Boetto, '44. at Iwo Jima. He is on an LSr. . . . Our religious opportunities have been few, as we have only been able to attend Mass about four times in the last four months. However, a Catholic chaplain came aboard two days ago and will be with us for a couple of weeks anyway." 
En*. Chuck Urmcla who had been a gunnery officer aboard a battleship, visited the campus in early March. The boy had really seen some rugged going, being at Saipan. 'Hnian, Guam. Leyte, Surigao Strait. Luzon (Lingayen Gulf). Chuck had seen, while in the Pacific, Jack Law­ler, John O'Ronrke, Jack Fena, Bndc Eckenrode, John Lanahan, Tex Crowfey, Chuck Segher*. Charlie Hontriep Roy Gntmbine (now missing) and Jim Honahan. 
Awards: 2nd Lt. Kelly Cook, Lexington, Ky.. a pilot in a 15th AAF unit in Italy: the Air Medal; Ist Lt. Joe Patmcco, Meriden. Conn.. navigator on an 8th AAF B-17 flying fortress: an oak leaf cluster to his Air Medal; Sgt. John AheiB, radio operator-gunner on an 8th AAF flying fortress: bis fourth oak leaf cluster to his Air Medal; 2nd Lt. Fred Fnnk, LaCrosss. Wis., with 15th AAF: the Air Medal. Fred is a bomber pilot, flying with a B-24 Liberator squadron. 
Lt. Don HcGrann* Ontario, Canada, formarly a B-24 LJberator pilot with the 5th Air Force in New Guinea, has been assigned to Fort Worth. Tex. He was awarded the Air Medal with four oak leaf clusters. L t John Cowley, P-51 Miw­tang pilot has. been awarded his second oak leaf cluster to the Air Medal. John was with the 8th AAF in England. 
Leo Bndtignani, Memphis, Tenn.. graduated from the Naval Air Training Base, CorpQ)} Christi, and was commissioned an ensign in the 
U. S. N. R. Details of the exploits of Ut Lt. Matt Bolger of Newark, Marine Corsair pilot, who was reported April 3 to have shot down a Japanese fighter over Tokyo, were revealed in late April by the public relations ofiBce of the Marine Corps air depot. Miramar, Cal. Matt was among the first Marine pilots to fly fnm a Navy carrier in combat. Moving into action with Vice Admiral J. S. McCain's carrier task force, he and his buddies participated in attacks ran^ng from the South China Sea to Tokio. They helped soften up Iwo Jima and Okinawa before the American invasions. 
With the 15th AAF in Italy, Jolm R. Klec. Rochester, N. Y.. has been promoted to the rank of first lieutenant. > 
Bombing targets in France. Germany and Czech oslovakin, was bombardier 2nd Lt. BiD Scfanltes, Cresco. la., who completed, at least. 35 missions. Lt. (j.g.) Ed Olszewski, Navy fight* er pilot from St. Louis, who shot down two Ger-• man transport planes over southern France last summer, scored his first kill in the Pacific, down­ing a three-man Japanese torpedo plane over the enemy's home waters. 
Ed Hanyzcwski returned May 15 from his army induction physical' examination in Indianapolis with the news that he had again been rejected for service because of a knee injury sufTered in a basketball game seven years ago. Eddie rejoined the Cubs on May 23. Herb Melton, Paducah, Ky., received his wings and commission recently and was stationed at Corpus Christi, Tex., prior to his take-off for the West Coast and the Pacific about the middle of May. Joe Neafcid was in a hospital recovering from shrapnel wounds he re­ceived fighting with the 104th division, Krst Army, before Cologne. 
A letter from Ens. Bobby Fanght, written from his ship in the Pacific, says a former teammate of his. Ens. Frankie Cnrran, was married in De­cember, and that still another teammate. Lt. <JK) Eddie Riska, '41. commanded an LCI at the Peli­leu invasion. Another letter, this one from BUI Talbot: "You may like to know that since last writing I have had the good fortune to meet sev­eral other Notre Dame men of my class. Dan Boetto is on an LST out here. Austin Jones was busy with a beer bottle when I saw him in De­cember at an officers' club. Jchn HIckey* of the flowering metropolis of South Bend, is stationed on an island out here. Frank Hompf is not very close to me. but he's around on a destroyer in this area. The only Army man I ran across is Al Younghaus of the Air Corps. Bill Lawless and Jack Lawler are both out here, but I haven't seen them." 
Angelo Bertelli, liaison ofiicer with the 21st Marine regiment, fighting on Iwo Jima, had a narrow escape when a Jap mortar shell hit 15 feet away from him and sprayed the area with fragments. A later release spoke of Bert coadiing the Third Marine division's all-star baseball team. 
Sgt. Bob HcBride. Lancester. O.. was recently liberated from a German prison camp after his capture last December. His mother wrote that he was recupsrating in an English hospital bot that he expected to be home soon. He weired 210 pounds at the time of his capture- After sain­ing "connderable weight" following' his release.. he weighed 170. 
Lt. TMS Crcevy, quarterback, was awazdad the DFC with a bronze star for bringins tmek his fortress on New Year's eve after part of the tail and two engines had been shot away on a booib­ing mis«on over Germany. A/C Grahaa MitGcv­an, Burlington, Vt , began his twin-engine ad­vanced flying training course at Enid Field, Okla. 
Capt. Sid SiHpsm, twice rex>orted wounded in action, is/was a patient in Billings General hos­pital, Indianapolis. Following the battle for St. I.O, France, according to an army di*T<tf^. SSd pressed on throus^ Belgium and Loxemhomv to the Siegfried line where he won his first Purple Heart for wounds received from a mortar shell, Sept. 16.- Following a brief time in England be returned to his own regiment in Belfl^um and was with it at the time of the German break-throu^li. Near Bastogne, he was hit by shrapnel from an .88 shell on Dec. 19 and was awarded an oak leaf cluster. Sid's brother, 2nd Lt. lUk, Ml, ffies n P-51 in China. 
From New Caledonia, Pf c Mlm CzeiHty writes.: **. . . Sunday I went to Mass In the cathedral in Noumea and bumped into Ed Kcelaa of my class-He was a pole vanlter on the track team. He is now an ensign and fresh from the States. Frank OugUeri is also with him. We had qnite a boll session about old times. . . . Had a letter fnHn HH Howard, my roommate in Badin; he is stationed at Norfolk and plans to be married in June. . . . There is a Thames Hewitt, CS. C from N.D. on the island her& He is a chaplain with a C.A. outfit, . . . Heard from Jcny Qeinn; he is with the Sth division in Italy. Jadt Lyncb, Tom WCmk­nor and Ernie SedlsuyCr are with the same oot>­fit. Just before Christmas Jerry was hit by diraiK nel from mortar fire. After he got oat of the hospital for that, he had the misfortune to get 
, yellow jaundice, and at the time of writing was back in the hospital. I guess he has had a pret^ tough time." 
1945 and Later 
David R. Condon, TIM Cliicaco Trib­nno, Oucafo^ IlL 
From Dave Cendea: 
Lt. Geerce A. Sdiwartx, Jr.* was in Chieajgo in May for a several-hour visit. He was retnmins from Denver, where he had been taking - some course, and was returning to Atlantic City, N. J. George, if you remember, was a reserve oflleer and went into service shortly after Peari Hubor. He transferred from the tank corps to the air corps and was stationed in New Guinea. ^ 
Upon his return to the Statesw George's first experience wcs to see last year's Notre Dame-Army game (remember?). .. . At the game he saw F^ank Szymaasid and Jtlin Adams, about the last two of our class of 1945 who stall were around the campus. Later in New York, George bumi>ed into Jiauiy Mdle. 
A letter fr»n Bill. Brown, who still is in the South Pacific on an LSM. He tells me to start lining up a room for the fall semester of 194fi (with an (4>tion). "I prefer the comer rooms in Dilloa with the bay windov.-s. IVy and get some­thing facing the campus. Don't get one with a tree in frcmt of it." * 
Ens. Pa«l J. Liment also writes from the South Pacific and says he is looking for BQl's address. He hasn't heard from any of the gang, and wants also to get in toodi with Jsha 1 
Paul says that Gerry Ferd* really adopted by the class of '45 but a member of the CUM of *4C, 
had become engaged before getting on his boat as an ensign. The latest letter from Ronald Car­ter came from the Philippines. He is with the cavalry. Georce Conway was in the Marianas, so Carter heard, with an engineer outfit. Joe Plante was in Hawaii at that time, but probably has long since left there, the way the ensigns travel. 
Ronald says, the movies were beginning to catch up with them in the Philippines, and the last tima they looked, the pictures they had seen would have made Washington Hall proud. 
John Dowlinc writes from Philadelphia, where he and Bill Coghlan have been stationed at Jef­ferson Medical college. Bill became engaged to Patricia A. Matthews. Dowling heard from Tom Dowdle in Holand, and says that Tom's younger brother now is at Notre Dame. 
Larry Carden and his wife stopped over in Philly and John met him at Mass. They had breakfast' afterward and the last John heard, Larry was in Bainbridge, Md. Owen Doj-le, the last John heard, was at Yale Medical school. 
A note from Mrs. Richard Kelly, of 2395 Ridge Road W., Rochester 13. N. Y., says to announce the marriage of Miss Maries Marccau and Lau­rence F. Kelly, of the class of 1945, which took place in Corpus Christi, Texas, on April 21. 
A letter from Ens. Frank E. Eck, then in Nor­folk. Va., was most welcome. He says he re­ceived his commission last October at Prairie State midshipman Echool for engineers. There he went through training with Bill Grafc, Jade Col­lini. Jack Ronsseau, Dick Quinlan and Gene O'Neil. After graduation Frank went to Flint, Mich., and there met Tom Halligan. Then in De­cember he was sent to Camp Bradford, in Nor­folk. There he said, he ran into many Notre Dame men. Says he saw Julian Atwater, '42. in the officers* club, and later met Ed Ghigliotti. 
Frank went into Washington and was roam­ing the -streets when he met up with Lt. Bill Whelan. At that time, he met several other Notre Dame boys including the Quantico crew of Larry Lyndi, Ernie KKisto and Bob Stupay. 
Frank had letters from Bob Grady, his old roommate, and Tom McCnlloueh, who was in Ger­many. When he went home, to Red Bank, N. J., en leave, he visited Fred Eicham, who was sta­tioned at Fort Monmouth, N. J. Frank would like to get some news of Bill Ethridge and Fanny Gohn. 
Frank goes on to recount how he met Carl Look at Communion one day. He received a letter from a friend who had met Jack Conway, near Iwo Jima. Others he met at the officers* club in Norfolk were Tom Mnlhem and Jack Carney. Jade Deecan dug up some German stationery and wrote from Germany. 
Ent. Bill Bladdcn wrote from a FPO address in San Francisca Bill was sorry to hear the news that Roy Gmmbine, his roomie for several semes­ters, was missing in action. Bill ran into Jack Lawler on one of the islands several months ago, but hadn't seen him since. He also met Bob (I can*t read his writing) on Saipan. and Bob (I can't read his writing) was on a submanne. Madden says that Bill Dougherty writes him reg­ularly, and the last I heard about Bill, he was still in the Pacific. 
Jade Your * so reports Madden; is a second looie in the Army, and Young, told Madden he met Tex Crowley in San Francisco. Madden shipi>ed out with **Shim" Brady on the same transport, and the last he heard of Brady, he was around the Russel Islands. Brady wrote to Mad­den that he had met Jerry Mahon, and was hear­ing from Joe Byrne. 
John E. Cronin now hcs a New York APO-Madden says he would like to know where contri­butions to the Alumni Fund should be sent. Pll count on Bill Dooley to put an editor's note here. [Alumni Office. Notre Dame. Ind., sez Dooley.] 
Bill concludes his note with a report thmt Am4y Rohan and Bill Heverkamp are supposedly out in the Pacific. 
Sam Adelo writes after a long absence, and is at Camp Rucker, Ala. He has lots of news, bat I can't find his second letter. He has been touring the States, and Rucker was his latest stop. 

I received a long communique frcHn Bob **U,t4** Lonerran, who is touring the West and doing quite well for himself. He wrote from Raton, 
N. Mex. 
Dick HcHncfa calls in from his farm at Man­hattan, III., quite regularly, and I have dinner with Didc Bums, now at Loyola medical school, quite frequently. 
Ens. Ray Ruetz writes in from an LSU group, and has been quite busy in the Philippines. He has been on overseas duty for 11 months. On his same staff and ship is Lt. (jg) Bob Gillette. In the same LSM groiif) are Ensi^i Bllke Ifelly* from Indianapolis, and Ens. Bill O'Connor. Ray also mentions that he hears from £ns . Jalin Hick­cy, his former neighbor in South Bend, quite frequently, and that "Hick" becnme engaged last Christmas. 
Where-they-are: Gerry Cosgrove, physician. Providence Hospital. Detroit: Joe Walker, manu­facturing engineering division. P. R. Hallory Co., Inc.. Indianapolis; Dick Bodie» medical student, Loyola University. Chicago (Medical Reserve Corps); Pvt. John Carvil, McCloskey General Hospital. Waco, Tex.; Sgt. John Flanigan, APO, San Francisco; Lt. George Schwartz, Atlantic City. N. J.; Sp (A) 3/c Jim Mello, Camp Peary, Williamsburg. Va. 
DaWd Armstrong, Seeley Lake, Mont., com­mand pilot of the 100th bombardment group, was promoted to captain in England. CpL Boh Horn. Columbia, Pa., was in charge of the ccnnpany his­tory at an air service command experimental sta­tion in northern Ireland. 
Many things have been happening to Boh Winks of Sumner, la. First, Bob was a member of the 357th Fighter Group with the eighth air force in England, contributed two and one-half German planes destroyed in aerial combat in one big dog­fight northwest of Berlin. Tlie flier's squadron got 21% of the 56% air victories bagged. Second, the next day Bob kayoed a German jet-propelled aircraft, Messerschmitt 262, to become a leading fighter pilot, \vith five air victories, lliird. 1st Lt. Bob was promoted to captain. Fourth, he was presented the fourth oak leaf duster to bis Air Medal. 
From his 15th AAF base in Italy, it was an­nounced that Tony Qnasarano was promoted to staff sergeant. Also from the loth AAF in Italy came word that Bob Rcardon, Kansas Ci^, Ua, was assigned to a B-17 flying fortress. Bob, a radio operator-gunner, arrived overseas in Janu­ary, 1945. 
Word has come through that John Ocden was with an infantry unit of the 75th division and saw action in Belgium. He was wounded on Dec 16 and was awarded the Purple Heart. John was recently discharged from an English hospital and has been assigned to the Air Corps ground crew. 
Srt. Bob livincBtone plans to come back to play' his two remaining years of football and receive his degree in phy>ed. Bob is with the Dixie divi­sion in the Philippines. 2nd Lt. Pa«| IWIs, Fre­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
mont, O., has been awarded the air medal. He is a pilot in the 15th AAF. 
Some time ago George Terlep was in his last five weeks of his midshipman's course at Cornell. CpL Tom HcLaaghlin, Teaneck. N. J., fought with the eighth air force as a radio operator-gunner on a B-24 Liberator bomber. 1st Lt. Tom Reiss, Lake Placid, N. Y.. received his promotion while serving on the fifth army front in Italy. 
1st. Lt. Marion Barkholder, Flint, Mich., navi­gator of a B-17 flying fortress, completed over 280 combat hours, traversed approximately 35.600 miles and navigated his bomber through severe enemy opiK>sition to drop more than 175,000 pounds of high explosives on Germany. Way back in February, Ens. Haric Bannon. South Bend, was attending an advanced line officer school in Miami, Fla. 
2nd Lt. Ora Spaid, once a prisoner of war of Germany, was awarded the Air Medal for previous service in combat missions over the Reich. S/Sgt. Frank Kinney, Billings, Mont., tail-gunner of a B-17 flying fortress based in England, was award­ed an oak leaf cluster to the Air Medal. An iden­tical award was received by F/O Tom Walsh, Bronx, N. Y.. a bombardier on an air force B-17 fiying fortress. Before the close of hostilities in Europe, S/Sgt. Ted Schaetzle. Akron, O.. B-24 Liberator tail gunner, completed his 20th combat mission. Ted went overseas in October. Fresh from service in the Pacific as a ground crewman in the Solomon Islands, T^gt. John Walsh, In­dianapolis, reported to the Marine Corps Air Depot. Miramir. Calif., from where he was re­assigned. 
A transfer was effected in March for Pvt. Bill Holton, South Bend, to the University of Maine, Orono, where he is studying chemical engineer­ing. Cpl. Don Bevilacqna, Erie. Pa., radio opera­tor-gunner in a -15th air force B-24 Liberator group, flew his first combat mission over enemy territory shortly before the close of the war in the Eurpean theater. Pf c Johnny Ray, South Bend, home on furlough from Fort Benning. Ga.. reported that he was transferred to the para­troopers and Doug Waybright. end on last season's 
N.D. team, is^was a private in the Army, sta­tioned'at Camp Gordon, Ga. 
S/Sgt. Warren Kane wrote from Lowell Gen­eral Hospital, Fort Devens, Mass.. ". . . as you probably know from my address I am in the States. A very lucky boy, thanks to the grace of God. The mine broke my leg and blew off my big toe, also left quite a large wound in my leg. but I will have full use of my leg in about five months. ITie combination of these things was enough to give me a free ride back to the States." Why not write to Warren? He'd really appreciate it ^ . 
At the time his signal company was awarded the meritorious service unit plaque. S/Sgt. Dick Conrardy, Sheboygan. Wis-, was radio section chief. He was stationed with a 15th AAF in Italy, and had been overseas more than one and one-half years, serving in North Africa and Sicily alsa Capt. John O'Malley, Denver, flew his 50th combat mission with the 15th AAF in Italy. John, navigator on a Liberator bomber, distinguished himself on numerous missions and, since arriving overseas last August, had won the DFC and five other decorations. Lt. Dick Connanchton, Leo­minster. Mass., was also a member of the 15th air force, and is the holder of the Silver Star, the Air Medal with three oak leaf clusters and the Purple Heart with a cluster. 
When Q.M. 3yc Tom Hynes, ex. *47. South Bend, says he spent the "hottest" Christmas of his life last year he means just that, because it was 120 degrees in the shcde on the island of Tulagi in the Solomons when he sat down to a tvrkey din­

ncr. Home on a short leave. Tom -urore two battle stars. One is the result of havint; participated in the invasion of Luzon and the other is for hav­ing gone through an encounter with a Jap suicide plane. 
Wounded for the second time, April 8, in Ger­many, was SySgt. Art Clifton, Jr., South Bend. He was previously w^ounded in France. Dec. 10, for which he received the Purple Heart. Art is with the Seventh Army and has been overseas since October. 
Sgt. Tyke Hartramn has been awarded the Bronze Star medal for heroic achievement in action in Italy on Sept. 16, 1044. He aided in the restoration of communications between his company and battalion headauarters by making a perilous journey through machine gun and mortar fire to secure two radio operators and a radio. IVke. who went overseas with an infantrj* unit of the fifth Army on June 15,' 1944. is in charge of a mortar section and has participated in tlie Leghorn and Pisa captures as well as the fight through the Gothic line in the Apennines. 
A V-mail from Ma.M ZjZ George Keenan makes mention of Notre Dame men: ". . . Have run across Jack Sweeney, of the class of *47, and Leo Costello* of *46. Had several talks with John Baroni and Bad Steiner before losing contact with them. Also ran into Jack Zilly in Honolulu last week." 
Mike Davlin who, at 16. last fall was the youngest player ever to win a varsity football monogram at Notre Dame, has entered Holy Cross Seminary on the campus to begin his studies for the priesthood. A graduate of Creigh­ton Prep, Omaha, he entered Notre Dame last summer and had won. a starting end position on the varsity when a knee injury sustained in the Illinois game put him out of action for the remainder of the season. 
BISHOP O'HARA INSTALLED 
(Continued from Page 11) 

tablishing at Notre Dame in 1920 the College of Commerce, and he was the college's first dean. 
Father O'Hara was, in 1933, appoint­ed vice-president and, in 1934, president. In 1938 he was appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to be a delegate to the Eighth Inter-American Congress in Lima, Peru. The following June he headed a social service commission to Venezuela at the invitation of President Lopez Contrera of that country. 
Named titular bishop of Milasa and military delegate to Archbishop Spell-man, military vicar (as well as arch­bishop of New York), Bishop O'Hara was consecrated in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, on Jan. 15, 1940. Arch­bishop Spellman was the consecrator, and Most Rev. John F. Noll, Fort Wayne, and Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, Indianapolis, were the co-consecrators. Traveling widely in his new post. Bishop O'Hara, as auxiliary of the Army and Navy diocese, administered Confirmation at many Army installations and Navy installations in widely separated spots, and maintained a continual contact, from and his supervisor then w u Thbmma A. Steiner, C.E. '99, now Fatlier Stooer, United States PioTincial of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. 
Mr. Feeley joined the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company on July 1, 1907, as a field engineer-timekeeper in Chicago. Through 38 years since that date he h{is advanced steadily. Fran 19il to 1937 he was in Buffalo as liekl engineer, division engineer, manager and vice-president, and in 1937 he moved to Chicago as vice-president and chief engineer. He took on additional duties as executive vice-president, continuing as chief engineer, in 1941, remaining in those capacities until his election to the presidency this year. 
Hr. Feeley was married in 1911 to Elsie O'Loane, of Stratford, Ontario, and they have a daughter, Mrs. William Grace,'and a-son, William, a first dass seaman in the United States Navy. 
gENJAMIN C. BACHRACa, '92, was 
until March 1 the first and only per­son to hold the office of Public Defender in Cook County (Chicago), HI. He re­signed on that date, to be succeeded by another Notre Dame alumnus, Frank T. McCurrie, '27. __ 
Mr. Bachrach gave many years of his life to his work of defending indigent prisoners in the criminal courts of Cook County. He established the service on a firm foundation and for his self-sacrific­ing efforts he won deserved praise from innumerable people. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bachrach are now resid­ing at 5307 Hyde Park Blvd., Chicago 15. 
SpoUUfUt AUmuu 
WILLIAM P. FEELEY, '06 

WILLIAM P. FEELEY, '06, on April 
5, 1945, became the second civil en­gineer of his Notre Dame graduating class to be president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company, with general offices in Chicago. The late John F. Gushing, '06, donor of the John F. Gush­ing Hall of Engineering on the campus, was. president of the company at his death in 1935.' 
When Mr. Feeley was elected presi­dent of the organization. another Notre Dame civil engineering graduate was elected a vice-president. He is Martin 
H. Brennan, '23, manager of the Buffalo office. James A. Dubbs, C. E. '06, is vice-president in charge of the Cleveland office. 
When Mr. Feeley finished at Notre Dame in 1906 he worked for a year for the Big Four Railroad in Indianapolis, 
his offices in New York City, with Cath­olic chaplains in the United States armed forces throughout the world. On March 16, 1945, he-was appointed bishop of Buffalo. 
Bishop O'Hara's father has been dead for some years but his mother died only last December. He has four brothers and three sisters. One of his brothers is Rob­ert, '20, who retired last year from the Army Air Forces as a lieutenant colonel after serving nearly three years in Eng­land. 
BENJAMIN C. BACHSACH, "92 

One, 0/ /^oi^ 3>amei QneateU AMeU 
You Can Supply Immediately-
A ^idi and Selected ZnAxdiment 0/ Stiixknil 
Summer Semester 
Registration—^July 4 Classes begin—July 5 
Winter Semester 
Registration—Nov. 5 Classes begin—Nov. 6 
FRESHMEN 
May Enter in Any Sennester 

In the nature of Notre Dame's operations, one of the greatest constant assets in the progress of recent years has been a full complement of students. 
This has refleaed itself in many phases. Vital, of course, is the fact that low endowment involves the referring of most of the university's operation costs to current income from students. 
But equally important has been the national character of the University resulting from students from 48 States. 
And very important has been the variety of activities permitted by the talents of 3,000 young men from the various scholastic and geographic backgroimds. 
Not a small part of the educational advantages of Notre Dame stems from the intimate contact of a student with fellow students from these many sources. 
So, as alumni who know the character of the campus and the nature of the Uni­versity's program, you can perpetuate this happy condition by interesting from your community the boys best suited for Notre Dame. 
N.B.
 1 For Catalog and Information, address Rev. James Connerton, C.S.C., '20, Registrar, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

N.
 B. 2 Details concerning the G. I. Bill and Veterans Rehabilitation benefits will be referred to Rev. lohn J. Lone, C.S.C., '30, Office of Veterans Affairs. 

N.B.
 3 If, during the coming months. Alumni Clubs or alumni in non-Club areas have the opportunity to interest substantial groups of prospective students or their parents or friends in the University, the Sound-Color film, "The Story of Notre Dame," can be shown to advantage. Application for such showing can be made to The Department of Public Relations or to the Alumni Office. 








