The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
»j>H^«»«-:..^-.^g .j^^^j.^u-^1^-^—^i-..,..--».^ 
I1> 
(5 
^^^Notre Dame 

ALUMNUS 
< 
L_U 
o o 
CO 
LU > 
Father Cavanaugh Memorial Edition 
MAY, 1935 *1 
r-fViV^^-:;VJ>'->fi;-^^TWri;yiv;wi^.H'fVi?K-\^'-.«'.y^'.',':r>:-iV'--^^'.;•/.:.•!'.>A'.':'4'..._--^-.:^*^a«j*u ^••.y.'^'-. 
^ 
and comfort and 
Beauty, comfort and pc: 
be vours m


performance 
full measure when you combine to Luxe Chevrolet for \'^^'? beautiful give fine car detail of its Fisher bod;c )miortab.e, too. for it has every modern •.: It to make vour

quality 

ride smooth—safe—o'.ca; All these
be a reveiatior tages combine to give r.ne c.-.r quality -the highest quality Chevrolet has ever nffrrec . . . yet Chevrolet prices are low and Che\Tolet operating12 economyv is greater than ever before. Ma>-we su prove these facts by your own tests, and choose Chevrolet for quality at low cost. 
CHEVROLET MOTOR )N!P.-\N">' DE 
/CHEVROLET/ 
^^^^^>r:.:^^M^—^-Ift-J'^ ^^•-v 
•Ei^Pn^i^^l ^x^BK.^ H|^^^^^^^_j^^^^ 
HiS


^^^S 
IS^^j^T^^ 

r,!-'^^^ '>/j^K^^ IL ••'VVN^J^ 



^^^^^P 
v^B 
L-'^V's'-tji 

The Master De Luxe Sport Coupe 
ms CHEVRnLET 
TURRET-TOP BODY BY FISHER WITH FISHER VENTILATION SYSTEM ...IM ­PROVED KNEE-ACTION RIDE . . BLUE-FLAME VALVEIN-HEAO ENGINE . . . WEATHERPROOF CABLE-CONTROLLED BRAKES ... SHOCK-PROOF STEERING 
PROGRAM OF THE 

91st ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT 
University of Notre Dame 
May 31, June 1, 2, 
1935 

(Central Standard Time) 
FRIDAY, MAY 31 

Alumni Registration: Alumni Hall, Classes before 1920. Dillon Hall, Classes of '20 and after. Lyons Hall, State Golf Tournament Entrants. 
Monissey Hall, Catholic High School Track Entrants. The -Alumni Golf Tournament will begin on Friday on the 18-hole William J. Burke - University Course on the Campus. 
12:45 P.M. President's Address to the Senior Class (private), Washington Hall. 
2:30 P. M. Baseball, Wisconsin Universitj' vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
3:30 P. M. Eliminations, Second Annual Notre Dame National Catholic Interscholastic Track and Field Meet, Cartier Field. 
6:00 P.M. Reunion Dinners (arranged by Classes), Reunions: 50-Year Class, 1885 Dbc Groups: 1918-17-16-15 
25-Year Class, 1910 1899-98-97-96 10-Year Class, 1925 1880-79-78-77 
7:30 P.M. Band Concert, University Band, Main Quadrangle. 
8:00 P. M. Special Reunion Meeting, Class of 1930, College Inn, Hotel La Salle. 
SATURDAY, JUNE 1 Alumni Registration Continues. Alumni Golf Tournament Continues. 
8:00 A. M. Mass for Deceased Alumni, Sacred Heart Church. 
9:30 A. M. Last Visit, Class of 1935, Sacred Heart Church (private). 
10:00 A. M. Class Day Exercises, Award of Honors, Washington Hal. 
11:00 A. M. Sixth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs, Law Building. 
2:00 P. M. Finals, Second Annual Notre Dame National Interscholastic Track and Field Meet, Cartier Field. 
3:00 P.M. Baseball, Michigan State vs. Notre Dame, Cartier Field. 
6:00 P. M. Annual Alumni Banquet, East Hall, University Dining Halls. 
8:00 P. M. Concert by the University Glee Club, Washington Hall. 
SUNDAY, JUNE 2 

8:30 A. M. Academic Procession, Main Building to the University Gymnasium. 
9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, Gymnasium. Baccalaureate Sermon, Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Boston. Music, the Moreau Seminary Choir of the University. Mass will be followed by the blessing of the Senior Flag. 
11:00 A.M. Raising of the Senior Flag, Main Quadrangle. Music, the University Band. 
12:30 P. M. Monogram Men's Luncheon, University Dining Hall. 
4:00 P.M. Awarding of Degrees, Gymnasium. Commencement Address — Shane Leslie. Music, the University Band. 
T/jc jcverc /oj^ which Death has laid upon Notre Dame in recent years is strik­ingly pictured on this page. The group in the upper picture gathered to meet William Butler Yeats, jamous Irish poet, essayist and dramatist, when he visited Notre Dame in January, 1933. Sitting, left to right, are: the late Father Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, the then president of the University, Mr. Yeats and the late Professor Charles Phillips. Standing are Mr. Yeats' secretary and the late Father John W. Cavanaugh. C.S.C. 
In the lojver picture Cav. G. Castruccio, royal Italian consid in Chicago, is honoring Father O'Donnell with the insignia which made him a Chevalier of the Crown of Italy, as Father Cavanaugh looks on. The ceremony took place in March, 1932. 
May, 1935 The T^o t r e 'Davie ailumniis 215 


Selections From Father Cavanaugh's Wise, Brilliant Words 
The Conquest of Life 

Sermon delivered at the solemn re­ligious opening of a Notre Dame scholastic year. 
".. . 'Three things there are that are hard for me, and the foui-th 1 am utterly unable to understand—the way of an eagle in the air, the way of a ship in the midst of the sea, the way of a serpent on a rock and the way of a man in his youth.' So spoke the wisest of the children of men. Youtbr is the play-tirae of life. The <^t/n the pasture, the puppy in the kennel, the kitten on the rug as well as the boy on the campus, are all re­minders that youth is largely occu­pied with play. Far be it from me to find fault with this: youth is the most beautiful season of your lives; once fled it will never come back to you again; and it is a tragedy when youth is clouded with the cares and labore that properly belong to mature manhood. But alas! youth is also the seed-time of life, and what would you say of the farmer who should fritter away the seed-time of the year and still hope for a harvest? Men sometimes talk lightly about the thoughtlessness of youth as if that were a sufficient excuse for neglect­ing life's serious duties; but if you are ever to be thoughtless would it not better in old age when your work is done and when the years are not so heavily freighted with destiny? There is only one time, says Ruskin, when a man can afford to be thought­less, and that is when he lies on his death-bed. No wise man ever leaves any important thinking to be done there. Recreation and entertainment, then, there must be for youth, but growth too there must be—growth in faith and hope and love. . . 
".. . Nature loves paradoxes, and this is her chiefest paradox—that he who stoops to wear the yoke of law becomes the child of liberty, while he who will be free from God's law wears a ball and chain through all his years. St. Paul speaks of 'the freedom wherewith Christ has made us free,' and what is this freedom but liberty from the yoke of passion through obedience to the law of Christ? Accept the law of God and you become a child of freedom; de­spise that law and you become the slave of passion. Accept the laws of health and you will live a happy, wholesome life; despise them and na­ture will scourge you with whips of scorpions and plague you with dis­ease, .'iccept the laws of the com­monwealth and you move among your fellows majestic and independent as a king; ti-ansgress those laws and you must shun the face of day, and skulk in the darkness like a hunted, hated thing. Wherever you turn, whether to religion or philosophy or history, whether to nature without or con­science within, whether to the health of soul or body, this lesson is written in letters of fire over all the universe: Obey law or die. 
".. . 'The kingdom of Cod suffer­eth violence, and the violent bear it away.' The kingdom of knowledge suffereth patience, and the patient bear it away. Learn to work without haste and without worry. Find joy in your work. Labor differs from play only in this, that play is taken up voluntarily and as an end in it­self. Look at college boys toiling and groaning in a football scrimmage; then look at weary men heaving bars of iron in the blast-furnace, and tell me: is it not ti-ue that the difference between play and toil is a difference wholly within ourselves, a difference in the spirit with which we go to them? Pursue learning, fii-st, because it is a duty which you owe to the father who is willing to stint himself of comforts at home that life may open sweet and large and beautiful on the son whom he loves. . . 
".. . This University is based upon the theory that education is chiefly moral; that character is more than cultui-e. Your Alma JIater will sur­round you with every strengthening influence that make for character, but she can work no improvement in you without your coopei-ation. Christ was the supreme Schoolmaster, but even Christ failed wherever good will and cooperation were wanting among His pupils. Judas, who according to ti-adition was His playfellow when a boy, who was one of the twelve on whom He lavished all the love of His heart, whom He himself prepared for his first holy Communion on the night of the Last Supper,—Judas forgot those years of sweet intimacy and on that very night betrayed his Master for thirty pieces of silver. . . " 
The Modesty of Culture 

Commencement address at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
"I remember as one of my earliest impressions the warnings that came to me from many sides against the pride of knowledge. They came some­times in solemn, sometimes in violent, tones from the pulpit; they came in books of religious instruction; they came from teachers and from a dozen other sources; so that one of the first deep convictions that ever came to me was the evil to be feared from the pride of knowledge. I cannot say that I have held this conviction with more than middling-tight grip in re­
cent years. It seems to me now that the thing to be feared is not what the old spiritual books called 'the pride of knowledge,' but what everybody knows to be the pride of ignorance. As a matter of fact, knowledge never injured anyone. What is hurtful is the ignorance which believes itself to be knowledge. 'What impressed me most at Louvain,' said Bishop Spald­ing to me once in conversation, 'was the humility of the learned men who make up the Facultj- of the Univer­sity. As I look back on it now, it was not their prodigious learning, nor their personal piety, that was the most striking, but the amazing humil­ity of these noble minds.' As a mat­ter of fact, every really great in­tellect since the beginning of the world has been profoundly religious. It is not the sages of science who raise the tumult about the dogmas of religion, but their noisy and shallow camp followers. Religion has been the inspirer of every noble work since the beginning of the world. Faith watches over the cradles of nations while criticism doubts and argues above their gi-aves. The historic uni­versities of the world have gi-own up in the sunshine of Catholic faith. As a matter of fact, it is not knowledge, but ignorance, which impedes the work of the Church in civilizing and sanctifying mankind. The pride of knowledge, therefore, is little to be feared, the pride of ignorance is a great and constant menace. 
"All real culture is modest. The process of education is largely the transforming of the violence of bar­barism into the strength of civiliza­tion. It is shown in literature in the change from the old savage war poems to the finer themes of the later day; it is shown in dress, in the change from war paint and loud colors to the sober tints of modem apparel. It is shown in manners, in the triumphant ascendency of woman, who represents the graceful principle in life, over man, who i-epresents the principle of power. And this process of civilization which has been going on in i-aces from the beginning of time to be repeated in the develop­ment of evei-y child that is bom into the world. Restraint, discipline, self-control, self-repression—these are the milestones that mark the path of the child from infancy to manhood. 
"You have doubtless seen the hor­ror that people have manifested at the sight of a neighbor conveying food to his mouth with a knife. You have seen the polite gasp when the wrong spoon was used at a formal dinner. Little indiscretions in the matter of dress have caused panic or 
(Continued on PaKe 217) 

University of Notre Dame Religious Bulletin 
March 23, 1935 


THE MASTER IS GONE! 
Father Cavanaugh is dead. No one ever loved Notte Dame more passionately than Father Cavanaugh loved her; no one was prouder of her 
honors, more jealous of her fame. No one ever contributed more splendid talents to her growth. As the most brilliant Catholic orator of his day, he brought Notre Dame into greater national prominence. For 
fifteen years his strong personality spread her glory. For fifteen years he brought to the campus the high and mighty, Catholic and non-Catholic, from every depart­ment of life. As the cultured president, his commanding figure completely dominated the University. He was ideal of professor 
and student alike. All who came imder his refining influence carried away much of him in their minds and hearts. Today he is dead, and thousands of Notte Dame homes are grieving. The Church and nation have lost a man of power. North and South, East and West, he made patriots and won 
staunch admirers to the Catholic Church. Those who ever heard him will recall him standing on the lecture platform, his whole being on fire, his silver voice ringing, his graceful body swaying, as he scourged bigotry and littleness and cowardice towards the Church or state. Again they will hear him tenderly, reverendy, saying, that nuns are more necessary to our schools than angels, be­cause angels are not human. The poor, the aged, the forgotten, knew and loved Father Cavanaugh. It would be Christmas, with everyone else at dinner, and he would slip away with food and gifts to the unfortunate home. It would be a broken-hearted mother that would find Father Cavanaugh at her side. He was,friend of the great, but to him every man was great. There were no ordinary people among his friends. Every man was a king to this princely priest. All will mourn him as their friend. In Heaven "upon the unforgetting intelligences of the angels" he met yesterday the long record of his good deeds. It was the first time he had looked into that record. May a bountiful God out of the riches of Heaven reward his unselfishness! May the hearts that he has gladdened spring to him now in fervent prayer! 
May, 1935 
Father Cavanaugh Selections (Continued from Pase 215) 
amusement according to the temper of people who thought themselves re­fined. As a matter of fact, in all these cases, it was not the man who ate with his knife or committed the offense against conventionality who really lacked culture, but the smug and self-complacent one who had memorized a few formulas of social usage, and who set themselves up as judges of others when they seem to run counter to these conventionalities. It is dangerous to sit in the seat of the scornful. . . 
"This modesty in judging others has a larger side. There are multi­tudes of people nowadays who go to Europe to complete an education that was never begun at home. They ob­serve national customs abroad, and they at once set down other peoples as inferior when, as a matter of fact, they are only different. Who has not heard the furious declamations against the scandalous Spanish bullfight? Yet, the bullfight appears humane when compared with our national amusement of prizefighting. Who has not heard the innocent French duel condemned as a suri-ival of sav­ager}'? and yet is not our American game of football vastly more peril­ous and indefensible? Americans note what seems to them certain forms of public indelicacy abroad, and French­men lift waxed eyebrows in horror at the sight of an American spittoon. The German beer-garden is a rock of scandal to the moralist from Boston or Bird Center who is pathetically unconscious that a German beer-garden is a holy place when com­pared with certain lax American thea­tres where young girls go to matinees and where scenes are enacted and themes discussed which are never re­ferred to in polite society. All these are faults of ignorance. True culture brings with it the world spirit rather than the village spirit. True culture is cosmopolitan; true culture is sym­pathetic and broad-minded. It never mistakes our own tribal customs for absolute perfection. . . 
"One of the first lessons that you will leam through the modesty of cul­ture is that life is not only the great creator of literature, but is its great annotator as well. Literature not only reflects life, but life alone has the witchery to conjure up literature. The color of life is red; hence, only minds that go to elemental human passions are capable of creating liter­ature, or at least minds that go be­hind the veil of conventionality. One has written that every man has it in his power to produce a single im­mortal book, but to do so he must tear away the veil absolutely from his own heart, and that is why so few immortal books are written. The un­
The 1^0 tre 'Dame cAlutn nus 
veiling of hearts is not a pleasant business for people who have hearts. And as life is the great creator of literature, so life is the great annota­tor of literature. You take up a great book and you do your honest best to rise into appreciation, and you meet with honest failure. You come to it again and again at intervals, remem­bering always that the fault is in yourself and not in the master, and after many reverent approaches the meaning of the book flashes home, and forever after your life is the richer and deeper. What has hap­pened to bring about this change? The book has undergone no tranfor­mation, but you have lived five or ten years and life has been acting upon you, and teaching you lessons, and annotating for you the text of the master until words that before were meaningless take on a sense of beauty and suggestion, and utterances that before seemed false now show them­selves true and beautiful with eternal beauty and tinith. ... " 
Religious Life of the Student 
Sermon delivered at the solemn religious opening of a Notre Dame scholastic year. 
".. . In the lives of men, as in the lives of nations, there are epochs whose beginning and end are plainly marked, and which bring with them triumph or disaster, glorious achieve­ment or shameful defeat. For many a boy the day of his First Communion has marked the beginning of a new life. With his lips still purpled with the sacred blood of Christ he framed in words the resolution, perhaps, which placed him years later on the altar, chalice in hand, the miracle-working priest. For another, the meeting of a wise, true friend has marked an epoch—the friend who could enter into the deepest recesses of his heart; who could pour into the the wounds of life the balm of sym­pathy; who could impart ^^^se coun­sel and lead him on in holy and safe paths. Such a friendship was that of Basil and Gregory in the University of old Constantinople, and it inspired both to become immortal scholars, il­lustrious saints and doctors of the world-wide Catholic Church. Mar­riage is another epoch of life which often works a great change in men, for it brings with it responsibility for the lives and happiness of others. A good retreat has been the beginning of a new life for many a man, by af­fording him clear vision of the eter­nal truths of life and death, and duty and destiny. An attack of grievous illness may be to you a means of grace as it was to the soldier Ignatius of Loyola when a French artillery­man fired the shot that struck him down in the breach of Pamplona, and changed him from a blustering soldier of Spain into an intrepid and trium­
phant captain in the armies of God. And so the day on which you enter college may mark an epoch of Ugh resolution and noble effort, as An­gustin of Carthage, the brilliant young pagan, who journeyed to Milan that he might leam rhetoric from the eloquent lips of St. Ambrose, put away under the inspiration of that great teacher the vices of pagan youth and solicited austere adoption into the Church of Christ, becoming at the last an illustrious doctor of the Church and, as I believe, one of the four greatest minds that ever glorified the human race. . . 
"It is well that you should realize \-ividly in the beginning the reason for the existence of such a school as this. The world knows that the fu­ture belongs not to the nation with the largest armies or the great sea-sweeping navies alone; the future be­longs to the nation that will best edu­cate her sons. And so all over her glorious, imperial domain, America, vigilant, clever, worldly-wise and pa­triotic, has sprinkled her colleges and universities erected by public expense or private largess. Into these schools she has poured streams of gold; upon their rostrums she has placed some of her most learned sons; with privilege and benefit she has girt them round. From every point of view they are admirable—from every point of view save one. In these schools men may leam about laws and literature, about arts and sciences, about beasts and birds and bugs, about everything save the rights of God and the duties of men. Through no fault, perhaps, of the teachers who labor in these schools, but by the relentless neces­sity of the nature of the school itself, the name of God must perforce be banished from its teaching. At a time of life when the years are most heavily freighted with destiny; when Almighty God is storing up in the bosom of a young man the physical energies that are to make him a home builder in the years to come; when Almighty God is transforming the body of a boy into the body of a man —in these wonderful years when the solemn and serious lessons of life are most imperatively needed to save him from disaster and tragedy, the Crea­tor, who alone can save him from disaster and tragedy, the Creator, who alone can save him and make him strong, is banished from the young man's life. During these years, too, there are great changes going on in the soul of a boy. During these years is largely determined the ques­tion whether the youth will walk through life upright like a man with his face to the stars, or whether he will wallow through the world like a beast with his face to the earth. In all the range of modem thought there is no notion so tragic as that daring this time religion should be absent from the influences that are mould­ing human life. 
The 'i^otre 'Dame cAlumnus May, 1935 
EDITORIAL 
'IT WAS A GLORIOUS VICTORY' 
Notre Dame's progress has been so splendid, so rapid, so in keeping with every objective of its friends, that heavy casualties have been lost a little in the glory of tri­umph. 
Editorial convictions dictate this grim note even in the light of a magnificent Universal Notre Dame Night and the return of Father O'Hara to new achievements of ad­ministration. 
Five years is a short period in the life of Notre Dame. 
Yet in these iive years ending in June so many of the great personalities in the realization of the Greater Notre Dame have died that even this brief consideration is ap­palling. 
Notre Dame, from its humblest start in the little brick structure on the shore of St. Mary's lake, derived its greatest endowment from personality. Men were the mortar which so permanently cemented the bricks that commemorate them—Sorin, Walsh, Corhy, Badin, Mor­rissey, Dillon, Howard, Lyons. 
The recent death of the Reverend John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, who for so many years, in the full sun of his ad­ministration and in the more recent shadows of failing health, typified the great personality, has crystallized a growing editorial belief. 
Notre Dame can never, as do so many schools, allow personality to become the victim of technological un­employment. 
Whatever may be the number of students, whatever may be the number or the make-up of the faculty, unless Notre Dame is symbolized for Notre Dame men by Notre Dame men, it will lose the perpetual spring that has fed it. 
Cause for concern must be found by everyone in the impressive losses these five years ending have sustained. Personality as they possessed it is so much a matter of de­velopment over a period of time, or of God-given talents, that here lies a problem material resources cannot solve. 
Who but God could create a Cavanaugh? 
What foolish laboratory would essay the replacement of Rockne? 
What mirror will reflect again the brittle Christian gentleman, who was Marty McCue, or his mellow Cath­olic companion, the Colonel? 
What seminary will produce a Lavin or a Leopold? 
Father Dom O'Malley, Brother Martin—^where is the gynmasium that can give strength like theirs, that in itself was prayer and fellowship? 
Who will send now to those far and uncharted ways the sweet brilliance that emanated from Father Hudson? 
And who can strike the beautiful chords of Christian inspiration that filled the lives of a Finnigan and a Phillips? 
What busy ways will spare again the unselfish talents and the loyal support of a Hurley, a Phelan or an Er­skine? 
And will there continue to be such men, through all the years, as those alumni who, like Warren Cartier, lived all their lives with Notre Dame a part? 
Will there be boys, like Joe Sullivan and Tex Young, who in less than even the allotted span of study, lived and died great? 
Will there be men like Gus Meehan, who in death wrote the name of Notre Dame, in the lasting hand of Catholic scholarship, across the name of six great states he knew needed the name? 
Five short years have raised these questions. During these fleeting years all of the men named above have died. 
It is hard to answer the questions. In describing tradi­tion. Father Cavanaugh once wrote a glowing paragraph that by the substitution of the word "personality"' for "tradition," almost does it. Because most of the traditions of Notre Dame reside in personalities. 
-• "^ 

"Traditions are the real tapestries of all noble halls. Traditions claim and recive the plenary loyalty of all high and fine spirits. 'Our Fathers Have Told Us' is a slogan of all reverential—^that is to say, the best—minds. It is almost a touchstone of refinement in a man to be mindful of the cave from which he was digged and thie rock from which he was hewn. In theology tradition is a fount of revelation; in education tradition is a fount of culture." 
The only editorial suggestion for the answering of the many questions is that the Notre Dame of whatever pres­ent keep always before its men—^its young men, its old 
• men, its men at home and men away—the caves and the rocks of its origin, and the things "Our Fathers Have Told Us." 
<? 

May, 1935 Vl^^^-.-.- SlyLc >-' ^'i.: Zr„..-: 
"It is no direct part of the work of the Church to organize and direct a great school. Her business is to make men holy rather than learned; but because in the accomplishment of her high purpose she finds herself compelled to make use of all the aids and instrumentalities by which men may be influenced for their better­ment, therefore the Church has been found in history to be a school of poetry and painting and eloquence and architecture. And because she sees that education which forms and colors the very fibre of men's brains has been divorced from religion and even made the aggressive and power­ful enemy of religion, she summons her armies of consecrated priests and teachers, and girding them with her giant strength sends them forth to do battle for the cause of Christ on the professor's rostrum as well as in ca­thedral pulpit, imparting the highest and deepest lessons of human learn­ing, not as though these were sep­arate from religious truth and human dut}', but interpeneti-ating science with faith and morality with customs, teaching Christ as well as culture, sanctity as well as science, moi-als as well as mathematics; making a sj-n­thesis between the life of the mind and the life of the soul and yielding to the world as their finished product the Christian gentleman as well as the accomplished scholar. 
".. . The young man attending the secular university from which the name of God is banished may eas­ily come to forget God. The veiy fact that religion, which in his home and amongst his people stood as the most important and solemn fact of human life, is there ostentatiously passed over, is itself a great shock to his faith. Constant intercourse with professors whose learning he ad­mires and who are known not to be religious men, little by little gnaws at the ^^tals of faith as a cancer works death upon the body. Daily intercourse wt h students who have no religious faith and perhaps even deride religion altogether, comes after a while to paralyze the instincts and impulses of religion. It is not human reason which works this result; it is the mere pressure of the atmosphere around him. It is not that science is the enemy of faith, but that teach­ers of science, themselves without faith, by persistent reiteration of their own infidel opinions, suggest the belief that learning has no fellow­ship with faith. . . 
".. . The world will tell you that a boy must cut his wisdom teeth; that the puppy must continue to chaw up books and clothes and shoes until some day he chaws the soap, after which he becomes a very sober, sol­emn, well-conducted puppy. But you know in your heart that puppies were never intended to eat soap; that it may be fatal to them; that they may 
XT he l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
be brought up wise and sensible and healthy without that experience. Per­haps you may be told that a boy can­not be tied to his mother's apron strings always; but your conscience tells you that it is better to follow the counsels of the pure and wise and noble mother who loves you than to follow the leading of the devil who hates you. The world may tell you that a boy must get experience through sin; but the world is a liar, for your own soul whispers that what­ever a man must know in human life he may learn in safe ways and through holy channels, and that a man does not purposely expose him­self to smallpox in order to know about it. . . " 
The Function of the 
Religious College 

Sermon on the occasion of the sol­emn religious opening of the Notre Dante scholastic year, September 24, 1905. 
"Three score years and more have passed since a priest and six immortal Brothers of Holy Cross first loolted in hope and affection upon the wilder­ness where now blooms this beautiful garden. Father Sorin, Brothers Vin­cent, Joachim, Marie, Lawrence, Ga­tien and Anselm—^forever honored be their names in the history of educa­tion in America. They dwelt in rude log huts into which the eager winds of heaven swept unchallenged; they slept on rough planks and oftentimes the counterpane that covered them was the snow that sifted through the chinks of the wall. They ate course food, wore scant and rough clothing, suffered cold and hunger and -weari­ness gladly; and why? Because they were irresistibly driven on by a divine passion. Because they felt that the opportunity was worth the sacrifice. Because they had heai'd the call to a crucified life. Because they had deep­ly meditated the woi-ds of Christ: 'They who instruct others unto justice shall shine as stai-s in the kingdom of heaven.' 
"Men of this temper naturally drew other choice spirits to their side, for virtue is even more contagious than vice. These men in their turn had to suffer also: trials of obedience, of poverty, of the renunciation of that domestic life which is after all the fundamental human passion; trials of disappointment and mis­fortune and failure and discourage­ment and debt and plague. But the religious spirit that looked undis­mayed on the \vilderne3s, on cold and hunger and unending toil was not to be daunted by new privations or new labors. The courage that animated the founders of Holy Cross and the 
foundei-s of Notre Dame has passed, thank God, to their successors; and after twenty years of intimate knowl­edge, it is a source of pride and inner strength for me to feel that the spirit of Sorin, of Cointet, of Granger, of Corby and Walsh, the spirit of Vin­cent and Francis and Lawrence and Benoit and Edward and Celestine has perpetuated itself in their successors 
"It is to the lives of these men we must go if we are to look for the ideal and the meaning of the religious college. Unless the students who come to us are better for the experi­ence; unless we have something to give which is not given by other coll­eges, then indeed is the life of our Priests and Brothers a dismal, pathetic failure. There are wealthy colleges with millions of dollars of endowment, where brilliant profess­ors discourse learnedly on philosophy and literature and the arts and scien­ces. There are vast libraries and perfectly equippe d laboratories, where mere knowledge may be had as well as here. We indeed believe that we do this work at-least as effec­tively as other colleges. Where they have an endowment of gold and silver, we have an endowment in flesh and blood, Where they of their wealth build great libraries and laboratories we out of our faith and our poverty build our great libraries and laboratories too. Where they run over land and sea to find famous professors we take the brilliant boy of thirteen or fourteen, the clear-eyed idealist with God in his heart— we take him and by submitting him to the finest educational processes until he is twenty-eight or thirty yeai-s of age produce a professor un­excelled in preparation and enthusi­asm. We do, indeed, I say, compete 
with other colleges in staff and equip­ment; but how do we manage it? Since the founding of Notre Dame not so much as one hundred thousand doUai-s altogether has been bestowed on the University in any form what­ever. How then is it able to subsist and to compete with the richly en­dowed colleges which expend more than one hundred thousand dollars on a winning football team in a single season? Young men, the answer to this question is one that you ought never to allow to lapse from remem­bi-ance. 
"All this is possible because Priests and Brothers are willing to live in self-sacrifice without lands or possess­ions, or home or relations; because they regard their work as an aposto­late among young men. jVnd, let me repeat, unless they feel that their apostolate is successful, unless they can believe that young men who are educated here are better men, better Christians, lead whiter and more pious lives than the young men who are educated in other schools, how can they help being bowed dowTi under a crushing sense of failure ?. . . 
. . . You will be told repeatedly that in addition to the ordinary mo-ties for study there is still another; that you must of course be busy with your studies because these years are heavily freighted with destinj'; that if you spend this seedtime wisely you will reap its rich harvest of success and happiness during the rest of your lives; that the habits of industiy or of indolence that you form here will make or mar your career; that the doors to the temple of success are marked 'push' and not 'pull'. All this you will be told; and you will be told besides that over and above all these motives of pmdence and selfishness there is the mighty motive of religi­ous dutj-; that if you do not use your opportunit}' you are not only a fool but a moral culpi-it as well; that though you wTong yourself most seri­ously by idleness, you also wrong parents and friends. . . 
"First of all there is the creation of a religious atmosphere in which young men may grow up. Wherever artists are wont to live together you have an artistic atmosphere, and children who gi-ow up in such sur­roundings naturally take to a career of art, or at least have a keen appre­ciation of art without conscious effort. Whatever literary people form a circle apart there is a subtle influ­ence in the direction of bookishness that touches all who come within that circle. So, too, wherever profoundly religious men live together there is created a religious atmosphere, and by merely breathing this atmosphere a young man is unconsciously formed to religious thought and conduct. He is led to accept the religious point of view about life, about philosophy and literature and historj-, about his career on earth and his eternal des­tiny hereafter. 
".. . The second means adopted is insistence on the Christian dis­cipline in morals. Against the theory that a young man must 'sow his wild oats;' that there is one law of conduct for you young men, and another for your sisters; that sin is merely ex­perience, such a college as this stands in absolute and uncompromising pro­test. We say to you that weakness is as pitiful as ignorance; that con­duct is four-fifths of life; that if you can not decently restrain passion, your talent and your wealth and your social position merely make you a tenfold more damnable failure. For the earnest young man who is seeking seriously in spite of human frailtj' to upbuild character this college is a tender and forgiving mother; for the sunken and sodden libertine who does not desire to rise out of his sensual life, she is an avenging goddess, angry-eyed and armed with all the lightnings of heaven." 

The T'lotTe 'Dame cAlumnus 
Father Sorin, C.S.C. 
Address given at the tniveiling of the statue of Father Sorin on the Notre Davie campus. May 3, 190G. 
"Three score years and more have passed since a young missionary first looked in hope and affection on the wilderness where now blooms this beautiful garden. He had left the mellow civilization of France for a raw, pioneer country where one might ti-avel for days almost without seeing the smoke curl up from a woodman's chimney. Poor, untried, ignorant of the customs and language of the peo­ple, he and his brave Brothers looked smiling and unafraid into the face of privations and labor. Often he was can-ied half frozen from the sled in which he made his missionary jour­neys to the Indians and the scattered white men for one hundred and fifty miles in every direction; more than once the horses were unyoked from the plow and sold for debt. Once at least the students must have gone supperless to bed were it not that a passing stranger made an unexpected gift; once pestilence almost annihi­lated the Communit>" t\vice the hun­giy fire devoured the work of gen­erations; a thousand times came ter­i-or and discouragement, but never once despair. 
"Rich only in the zeal of his fer­vent soul, strong only in the courage of his noble heart, he labored on, till to-day the work he directed is the pride of America and the glorj' of the Church. No man who needs a monument to commemorate his mem­ory ought ever to have one; unless the stoiy of a man's achievements lives in the hearts of his fellowmen, no bronze, however high, can light his name out of oblivion. Notre Dame is Father Serin's monument; but to­day a grateful people have demanded that the gi-acious features and the manly figure of this great priest should be preserved for generations that never looked on him in life. 
"Therefore, in the name of the sainted apostles who carried the Ro­man cross into countries over which the Roman eagle never passed; in the name of the holy missionaries of ever>- age, the evangelizers of every land, who have ventured for God where the merchant would not ven­ture for gold nor the soldier for glor}'; in the name of those Christian educators who believe, as he believed, that the heart of culture is culture of the heart and that the soul of im­provement is improvement of the soul; in the name of humanity whom he loved and ser\'ed without distinc­tion of race or creed; in the name of America, the scene of his labors and the land of his predilection; in the name of generations of young men whose lives have been touched and sanctified by his conseci-ated hand; in 
May, 1935 
the name of Alma Mater whose foun­dation stones were cemented with his sweat and blood; in the name' of a noble army of Priests, Brothers and Sisters of Holy Cross who with him bore the burden of a long day and are now with him trembling in the everlasting ecstasy; in the. name of venerable religious here present into whose souls come rushing back so many holy memories to-day; in the name of the Holy Catholic Church whose loyal and faithful priest he was; in the name of St. Joseph and the Blessed Virgin whose names he magnified; in the name of Him, the Saviour of us all, whom he served and loved with almost perfect love and perfect service—I say unveil the statue of Sorin." 
In Memoriam 
Sermon preached at the funeral Mass of Mr. and Mrs. Charles .4. Plamondon, Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago, May 20, 1915. 
"In the funeral sei-v'ices prescribed by court etiquette for the Emperor of Austria, there is a feature of solemn beauty and significance. After the impressive requiem in the great cathedral of St. Stephen in Vienna, a procession moves majesti­cally to the church which has been from immemorial time the burial place of the house of Hapsburg. Arrived at the door of that great and gloomy vault into which are gathered the grandeur, the romance and the tragedy of centuries, the master of ceremonies knocks for entrance, and a voice from within cries out, 'Who is there?' The answer is returned, let us say, 'Franz Joseph, Emperor of Austria, King of Hungan,-, Count of Hapsburg, Prince of this, Duke of that, asks to be buried with his fath­ers.' And from within in solemn tones come the words, 'I know him not.' After a brief pause the master of ceremonies knocks again, and again comes the question, 'Who is there?' This time, omitting several of the titles, the master of ceremonies answers, 'Fi-anz Joseph, Emperor of Austria, King of Hungary, Count of Hapsburg, asks to be buried with his fathers.' Again, after a pause, come? the solemn refusal, 'I know him not.' After another period of silence the master of ceremonies knocks again, and again comes the inquiry, 'Who is there?' This time the answer is returned, 'Franz Joseph, a poor sin­ner, craves the favor of burial with his fathers.' The heavy iron doors swing slowly open and the body of the Emperor takes its place in the solemn halls of death. 
"We are here to-day to learn for the thousandth time that the one ex­perience that is common to us all is death. However else our lives may differ, whether they be long or short, whether they be crowned with honor 

May, 1935 The tjotre 'Dame aAlumnus 
Left—Representatives of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus and the Notre Dame Wranglers stand guard at 
the bier of the late Father Cavanaugh; Right—Bishop Ritter of Indianapolis 
and glorj- or lengthened on in poverty and obscurity, there is one place where all men meet in equal humble­ness—the trysting-place of death. The man of power cries out in vain to his satellites to save him, the man of wealth offers uncounted gold for a moment's respite and is answered with mockeiY, the beggar finds no safety in his obscurity; for it is appointed for all men once to die. 
"And yet the commonest fact of existence, the most obvious and uni­versal idea, is not death but life. The breath of winter at the very moment when it blasts the greenness and beautj' of the earth whispei's a prom­ise of the resurrection, and we see trees and plants and flowers fall away in apparent death only to rise to new and fresher beauty at the coming of another spring. The worm shrivels, ugly, palsied, desicated, and surely here is death? A few weeks pass and a brilliant butterfly fluttei-s from the chrysalis, and a new and more beau­tiful existence is begun. 'Unless the gi-ain of wheat fall into the earth and be corrupted,' says our Lord, 'itself remaineth alone;' but the grain pre­figures resurrection as well as corrup­tion. And so must it be with us; for does God send warm rains and gentle breezes to awake the slumbering seed, does He plant in the heart of the rose­bud the promise of another year's life, and will He leave the soul of man alone to perish forever? The soul with its infinite yearnings, its unfulfilled hopes, its unsatisfied de­sires, its fragmentaiy experience— shall it alone die incomplete and im­perfect? The answer which reason, unaided, would fi-ame, rings out clear and strong in Holy Scripture: 'I am the Resurrection and the Life. He that believeth in me, though he be dead, shall live' . . . 
in the Community Cemetery. 
".. . Someone has asked why the world has never yet erected a gi-eat monument to the memorj- of any woman. The answer probably is that every good man that ever lived is himself a monument to some noble woman, who as wife or mother or sis­ter or sweetheart inspired bim to do his best and to be his best. What would either Church or State be with­out them? Since the day when Holy Marj' clasped her divine Baby to her heart and breathed the perfume of her breath into the roses of His cheek, woman has been the great lover of Christ. Since the day when Holy Maiy followed Him, blood­stained and weai-y, through the streets of Jerusalem on the afternoon of His Ci-ucifixion, woman has been the great follower of Christ. From the day when she first taught Him the rudiments of our human wisdom —He, the mighty God, whose voice is the thunder, whose willing servants are the lightning bolts of Heaven, who dipped the lily in eternal snow and washed the rose in the molten sunset. He, whose chemistiy is the rainbow, whose mathematics are the orbits of the stars, who wrote the story of the universe in the sti-ata of the eai-th and folded them up like the pictured pages of a book — He deigned to spell his way through the books of human wisdom at the feet of his Holy Mother, and since that day mothers have been the teachers of all high and noble lessons. . . 
".. . A million of years • from today we shall be alive—somewhere, somehow we shall be alive, thinking, remembering, loving or hating, lamenting or rejoicing; and for un­countable millions more, according as we have been wise or foolish here, we shall be trembling in unending ecstacy or bitten with eternal re­
officiates at the final services 

morse. What shall we then think of the use we are making of our life? 
What shall we then think of the motives and purposes that dominated our actions? We shall have plenty of time for remorse in those vast spaces of eternity. Let us do now the things we shall then wish we had done." 
The Empty Throne 

Paper read before the State Con­ference of Charities and Correction,' LaPorte, Indiana, September 30, 191T. 
".. . I have in mind a handsome, fat boy from an Eastern city, who made his college course at Notre Dame. . . Indulged as a child, he was indolent as a boy, and when he came to us at Notre Dame, he was perfectly amiable, perfectly decent, and perfectly lazy and disobedient— disobedient not in large matters, be­cause his instincts were good, but in the multitudinous details of college life which go to build up moral char­acter as in the army they go to build up militaiy discipline. For e-xaraple, it required a dredge to get him out of bed in the morning. He was habitu­ally late for breakfast, though in justice it must be said he evinced creditable activity when he got there. At classes he showed polite attention, but little evidence of serious study. His whole attitude throughout the day was one of physical and mental slouchiness. Professors grieved, dis­ciplinarians raged but the fat, smiling boy went his easy comfortable way. It is true he did what was absolutely necessai-y to save himself from ex­pulsion, but he hovered like a chubby cherub always on the verge of the abyss. . . 
"In the modem home, however, the 
chief article of furniture is an empty throne. Perhaps the father in olden days emphasized authority too much, and hence the reaction of today. I have noticed how parents whose up­bringing was very strict become lax in administering their own homes, and, similarly, children who were permitted to grow up with too much libertj' are reasonably strict parents; probably because experience has shown them the folly of too much relaxation. At any rate I find in my work that parents have abdicated their authoritj-. They have stepped down from their normal, legitimate throne. If I may use a rough figure, they have let the whip fall from their hands, and as somebody must always have the whip, the son quickly.picks it up, and obser\-e that the son never drops it afterward. For the rest of his life, the father who has abdicated the throne of his .authority pleads where he ought to command.' He persuades where he ought to direct, he coaxes and consults and humors where his experience ought to lay down a course of %%nsdom for his son. He gives the boy too much money, thereby cultivating in him a love of luxurj'; thereby making him not only in many cases bmtally selfish as a son, but lajnng the foundations for even more brutal selfishness as the husband of a good sweet girl or the father of unfortunate children. . . 
".. . The gi'eatest curse in the life of either man or boy is what is inelegantly called 'easy money.' And this is true whether it comes to men in the form of stock speculations, horse racing, or other forms of burg­lary, or whether it comes to boys through their father's folly. The re­sult of that folly is a complete re­versal of the normal relation between father and son, and, therefore, I do say that whatever virtues our Ameri­can fathers possess they do show a beautiful obedience to their sons. . . 
".. . Foolish fathers boast with a smirk that they make a chum of their boy. I hope that the fault is in their rhetoric and not in the fact. I hope that what they mean to say is that they have encouraged their sons to be open and fi-ank and unaffected with them, to be sympathetic and helpful so far as possible in their work and anxieties, to be affection­ate and honest at home; but neither God nor nature ever intended a father to be a chum to his boy. In the first place, the father who dreams that he has a chum in his boy gener­ally awakes to find that he has in him either a fool or a master. In the sec­ond place, there can be no relation­ship of chum with chum except through making a boy of the old man or making an old man of the boy. . . 
".. . I want to protest against the kind of mother who looks upon her children not as sacred responsi­
The "H^otTe 'Dame cAlumnus 
bilities enti'usted to her, nor as in­dividual souls whose temporal and eternal welfare she so largely con-ti-ols, but as playthings intended for her more comfort and amusement. . . 
".. . My. idea of a properly con­stituted Christian family is five boys and one girl. I have two reasons for this. First, I am connected with a boys' school, and secondly, one girl is as good as five boys anyway. . . 
".. . One form of the degenei-a­tion of which I complain is the affec­tion bestowed by women on cats and dogs and other animals. Whenever I see a woman clasping a dog to her bosom where a baby ought to be, I always think that the dog is in bad company. . How can such a mother ever .succeed in giving her daughter the pfdpe'r idea of the sacredness of a woman's caress? What normal man would ci-ave the affection of a woman who had done laboratoiy work with a poodle dog?. . . 
".. . I notice in some of the most respectable papers of America an invitation extended to young wom­en of the countrj' to •\\Tite to strange soldier boys who desire to beguile the tedium of barracks life by romantic coiTespondence. To me this is noth­ing short of hon-ible. Our soldier boys deserve the best of all good things. War and romance, it is true, have always been more or less asso­ciated, but I tell you that if our brave clean young fellows adopt lax ideas about marriage through obsen-ations of the tolerant customs of other lands, and if our young women lose the charm of modestj- and the frag­rance of reticence, if, contraiy to elemental laws of nature, they be­come the pursuers instead of the pur­sued, no matter who wins this war, America is defeated. She has suffer­ed irreparable loss." 
The Romance of Big Business 
Address at the Stiidchakcr Dinner, South Bold, on June 2(1, 1920. 
".. . At the beginning of Act Second enters the Spirit of Christ. When the infant church knocked for entrance at the gates of the Roman Empire, persecution with a thousand hands reached out to throttle it at the threshold. It came, heralded as the religion of the slaves and this alone would have made aristoci-acy its na­tui-al enemy. Every device of cruelty that the genius of hell could invent or the malice of men execute was em­ployed to destroy it. For three hun­dred years paganism was drunk with Christian Blood. And when at length that savage appetite was sated, when the uplifted smoking sword fell to the ground from verj- weariness, when it had become clear that the blood of mai-tj'rs was the seed of Christians, when the lions and the leopards May, 1935 
bounded no more within the amphi­theater and the smoke of pagan in­cense ascended no more from the al­tars of Jupiter and Venus, the Chris­tian Church found in her own bosom enemies more terrible than the pa­gans. The wealth that before Chris­tianity had crushed poverty into the dust, the mastery that ruled the Greek and the Roman slaves with a rod of iron was now enthroned in the palaces of Kings and in the halls of Princes, or entrenched in the strong­holds of feudal lords. Yet all this time the Divine energies were work­ing in Christian civilization. The founder of Christianity, emptied Him­self of all riches, taking the form of slave, as St. Paul says, 'He had not even a stone whereon to lay his head.' It was a strange kind of capital with which to begin the new big business. 
The board, of directors were twelve common fishermen, unlearned, unlet­tered, unskilled in the arts of elo­quent speech or persuasive argument; and the legend on their banners were words that the pagan mind could not understand. 'Blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.' 'What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his soul.' 'Render to Cae­sar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's, 'If you love not your neighbor whom you see, how can you love God whom you see not,' 'Thou shalt love thy neigh­bor as thyself.' 
".. . There are three chief tests by which the civilization of any peo­ple may be tried. One is the respect it manifests for human life as exem­plified in the care it takes of its chil­dren ; another is the reverence it pays to w^omen; and the third is the es­teem in which it holds human labor. These three gi-eat principles were typ­ified in the Holy Family, consisting of our Lord, the Blessed Virgin, and Saint Joseph. In the Infant Christ, childhood received a consecration never known before. In pagan coun­tries, today, the missionaries go out every morning with wagons to pick up the little babies that are exposed to death by their parents. In Mary, the Mother of Christ, is tj-pified the ideal of perfect womanhood. The picture of the Madonna, smiling down upon the homes of men for twenty centuries has consecrated and ideal­ized for men the womanhood of the world, and similarly in Joseph the Carpenter human labor was conse­crated and lifted in honor. Christi­anity began by treating the slaves with the same even handed justice it dealt out to the masters. . . 
".. . Nowhere in all the world has this glorious \ision been so clear­ly seen by the eyes of men as here in America where the spirit of De­mocracy is strongest and sanest. America is the natural home of the Romance of Big Business just as na­

May, 1935 The '^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
*"^^^^ 

-^... -T^ 
J < .. 
1 

1^ 4
^ 5f -J 
•/ 
v 
mm 
^ 
1
j^'-­
y
V
m 
|!>i-j' , 75 ^^M^^^^:SH*±i\?^w-l 3i^'iBi-4 ii.'v,^ 

turally as the Orient was the cradle of gorgeous human fiction and as the cold and barren North was the home of impossible dreams. No man is born into slavery in America; eveiy child in the nation has within him the capability to rise through the process of honest labor into the dignity and power of the employer. Is the storj' of Aladdin's Lamp more remarkable than the storj- of a hundred gi'eat fortunes made in America? Is the fable of King Jlidas turning into gold all that he touches more thrilling than the story of a hundred great indus­tries in America? Could anything better typify the fact that America must always stand for industrial peace because America means eternal and unbounded opportunity for labor as well as capital, than the dramatic stoiY of the rise and development of the House of Studebaker? Born in poverty, cradled in thrift and nur­tured by honest labor and ambition, it walks before all men today with giant stride along the great world paths of industiy. Yet giant that it is, within the lifetime of many men here present it was but 'an infant crying in the night, an infant crying for the light, and with no language but the cry.' It grew out of the dreams and ambitions of five hard working boys, the sons of an honest immigi-ant. They were bom in no golden clime, with no golden stars above. No silver spoon did homage to their baby lips. Thrift and toil were the lessons they learned at their mother's knee. Patience and unre­mitting labor was the doctrine they were taught by their father's ex­ample. They had not even the en­dowment of great genius, except in so 
X 

Kill 
-'.''->':i:J|^| 
1 
K.I 
> 
• •«• •> 
W 
-- ••? 
<" J ^^"^^'» ^ "^ 

far as patience is genius. They had no fairy godmother of fortune to en­courage and support them with magic wealth. For many years disappoint­ment was their daily experience. Ad­versity often dashed away from their lips the cup of success just when they seemed to have held it most securely. Often their young enterprise trem­bled on the brink of failure, and dis­aster, but girded with honesty and nei-ved with manly courage they bore bravely on, until today the stoiy of their rise to power and fortune seems like the romances of old, the stories of mighty conflicts and fabled beasts and the name of Studebakers is known and honored wherever civi­lized man inhabits. . . " 
The Tests of a College 

Baccalaiireute sermoH delivered at the Notre Dnnie Commencement in 1921. 
"Tomori-ow evening Alma Mater will set upon your brow the laurels of victoiy. For years you have labored in her learned halls, and have rested in her serene shadows, have eaten the bread of life broken to you by her venerable hands, have slaked your thirst at her holy wells. You have sat at her feet to learn wisdom. You have prayed at her altars. Under her kindly eye you have disported your­selves with the innocent freedom of the Children of God. Following her wise admonition you have grown to the full stature of manhood in strength, in thought and in virtue, and today, not without a natural hu­man regi-et at parting, this ancient 
1 

 ^-• 
At theflag-raisingfollowing the baccalaureate Mass at the 1928 Commencement. Left to right, are the late Father Cavanaugh; Rt. Rey. Msgr. Nicholas Pfeil, Cleve­land; the late Most Rev. George Finnigan, C.S.C., then bishop of Helena, Montana; Rev. Kemdt Healy, CS.C. 

i'*^ 
"^'^ 
school that has mothered so many generations of men takes you by the hand and leads you to her gates and pointing out over the great world in which henceforth you are to live and labor she gives you her blessing and her final admonition: Onward, Chris­tian soldier! Onward, athlete of Christ! You are now empowered; you are prepared to take a man's place in the world and to do a man's work. 'Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do,. do it with all thy might.' 
"No school does its full duty if it does not develop in its students the love and enjoyment of study. . . Our Lord did not say 'Blessed are the righteous' but 'Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteous­ness'; and the great university is not merely the school that sends you out strong and learned and virtuous, but the school that sends you out with such a godlike hunger and such di­vine thirst for power and learning and virtue as will continue through­out your lives, grow^ing with your growth, increasing with your increase as the years bring ripeness and wis­dom and reward. . . 
".. . Know^ this: if you are to enjoy great success you must pur­chase it at the price of many lesser goods. Tomorrow pleasure will smile upon you and bid you enjoy yourself; choose between pleasure and success, because you cannot have both. jVmusement will entice you from study and labor; society will bid you be gay and idle; self-indulgence will seduce you from effort and patience, and a dozen soft voices will solicit you to sentimental languishings and 
The t^otre 'Dame cAlumnus May, 1935 
to taste the sweetness of love's young dream. Perhaps prudence •n'ill warn you against heroic labors; romance will admonish you that the spring­time of life passes; choose between these things and the shining heights where so few stand precisely because so few are morally strong enough to pay the great price. . . 
".. . You have been supplied with gi-eat and beautiful ideals. How long will you hold to them? How soon will the world rob you of them? To­morrow you will be walking into situ­ations where, by a little crooked­ness, you can make some money, by a little shai-p pi-actice you can for the moment make a little headway, by a little concealment or even denial of your moral principles, your reli­gious beliefs, you may secure tem­porarj' advancement. The world which either never had your ideals or has lost them is waiting for you as the wicked brothers of Joseph waited for him, sajang: 'Behold the dreamer Cometh, let us kill him, and cast him into some old pit. . . and then it shall appear what his dreams avail him.' 
".. . Will the world say 'Behold the Notre Dame stamp on this glori­ous Catholic man!' Or will the world by offering you bribes of money, bribes of position, bribes of honor, bribes of friendship, bribes of human love, succeed in stealing away these ideals out of your life? . . . 
"A third test is courage. The great Cardinal Mercier of Belgium, speak­ing of his teachers at college said 'They taught me to obey, to labor and to dare.' The obedience he learned at college fitted him to ex­ercise authority and he became the great Cardinal Archbishop of Ma­lianes. The labor to which he disci­plined himself in college made him a gi-eat scholar, the most masterly ex­ponent of scholastic philosophy in his day. The daring they developed in him at college made him the greatest moral figure of the world war. Un­armed, defenceless, his only coat of armor his priestly cassock, he stood at the gates of libertj- and with no panoply except conscience, \\'ith no weapon except his eloquent voice, and no army except his courageous heart he withstood the most gigantic mili­tary power of modem times. One brave priest alone awoke the con­science of the world and saved his nation from destruction. . . " 
Father Zahm 
Reprinted from the "C at h olic World" for February, 1922. 
".. . Most of us who knew Father Zahm intimately, believed that he had prophetic instincts. He was a real-seer, and people who see, always look ahead. Among other enthusiasms of 
his from his youth was a burning zeal for the higher education of women. He did more than his share locally at Notre Dame to' promote it, and with voice and pen labored incessant­ly to arouse a similar enthusiasm in others. Wovieii and Science was a passionate defiance of the general be­lief that women are, by divine ar­rangement incapable of original or creative mental work. Similarly, Great hispirers was the story of the inspirational power of Beatrice as re­vealed in Dante, and of the holy women who labored with St. Jerome in Rome and Bethlehem. Both vol­umes are written with eloquence and iervor. Few men that ever lived had a more exalted conception of Chris­tian womanhood. It was partly the result of a beautiful idealism that ran through all his life and work and thought and speech. It was partly a spiritual refinement which came to him from his intense love of Our Lady, and it was partly a flowering of Ms sensitive and delicate purity of mind. He shrank from any sugges­tion of coarseness of thought, word or behavior as from a blow. This strong man, who recoiled not from battle nor from labor, was as delicate-minded as a girl. But he went be­yond that and believed in the power as well as the beauty of woman's mind. He has undoubtedly written greater books, but none more pleas­ing and inspiring than these two which deal with the soul of woman." 
The Cornerstone 
.•111 address at the laying of the cornerstone of St. Mary's college building, Notre Dame, June 12, 192i. 
"With lustral water and conse­crated prayer this hour we make a new symbol. We do not thus cere­moniously lay the cornerstone of theatres, whose function is merely to amuse, nor hotels which furnish food and shelter, nor stores where men do simple, necessary barter. We bless the cornerstones of schools and churches because they are dedicated to purely spiritual uses, the uplift and the unselfish service of the human mind and soul. Hence today a rever­ential people gather, singing patriotic songs and chanting pious hjTnns, while Religion represented here in her pontiff, clad mystically in cope and mitre, bends liturgically over this cornerstone, uttering holy and beau­tiful prayers that were already an­cient on the lips of Mother Church centuries before the continent of America was discovered. Only a little effort of the imagination is needed to fancy the stone itself for ages con­scious of its future dignity and des­tiny. It is a prophecy of all the beautiful works and lives that shall have place within this building during all the years to come. This bit of stone lay expectant in its quarries for 
thousands, perhaps millions, of years before any human lip ever uttered the most ancient of the prayers this day pronounced upon it, even before humanity began to walk the earth,— lay there, we may fancy, yearning and dreaming of the hour when the pieties of faith and the arts of civili­zation should fashion it into a beau­tiful and holy symbol. In this stone the whole foundation of this house is typified and receives its benedic­tion. 
"It is a familiar thought on such occasions that there is no beauty possible in the finished building that is not implicit in the foundations. There could be no witchery of deli­cate stone lace, on soft lines of magic minarets, no spires or turrets or domes or car\'ed stonework, no mo­saics stamping everlasting soft beau­ty on pavements, no flame of gor­geous colored glass on chapel win­dows, no exquisitely modulated lights and shades and tints of pictures on the walls, no rhythm of sweet chimes on the evening air—none of these perfect things would be possible with­out the strength and solidity of these newly blessed foundations. What is true of the physical structure is equally true of the spiritual edifice to be builded here. 
".. . There was a moment w^hen Pilate had it in his power to become the most illustrious and admirable man in all human history. If Pilate, when he found 'no cause' in the gen­tle Saviour, instead of yielding to the brutal clamor of the mob, had stepped down for a moment from his little throne and defying the easy diplo­macies of Rome and the enrious big­otries of Jerusalem, had taken his stand beside the meek and patient Jesus, Pilate would have at once as­cended the highest throne in the his­torj' of mankind, and he would today have his place in the reverential mem­ory of all Christendom as one of the moral heroes of all times. . . 
"Now it is the duty of such a school as this to spread before its students all good and beautiful knowl­edge. There must be no thought of withholding or clouding any truth of science or philosophy or history, any more than there must be any thought of chilling the ecstasies of music and poetry or dimming the beautiful dreams of the plastic or pictorial arts. But the graduates of this college will learn by steady growth of taste and judgment and culture what knowl­edge is of most worth, will learn all useful facts about life in safe ways and through holy channels, will cul­tivate that wholesome reverence for sacred things and the heroisms of the soul that have formed the inspira­tions of religion in all the centuries of the past; and just as the bee, taught by divinely planted instinct flits from blossom to blossom extract­ing honey from every flower and 

May, 1935 
avoiding all killing and poisonous 
things, so shall the graduates of this 
school have full freedom of all the 
gardens of human thought and phi­
losophy and art and science, secure in 
the confidence that they will instinc­
tively avoid what is perverted and 
abnormal, misleading and injurious, 
amid all the experiences of the past 
and all the seductions of the present. 
Habit, says the proverb, is second na­
ture. It is the business of all right 
education to fix on humanity through 
familiarity \vith the best thoughts and 
practice of the best actions of the 
past, such a habit of daily conduct as 
will instinctively perpetuate in their 
lives what is best in human nature 
and tradition. By such course alone _can civilization progress. . . " 
The Relation of Religious Instruction to Education 
Discourse delivered at a confer­ence on weekday religious educntion in Indianapolis on January 13, 1925. 
".. . There was a time w-hen con­troversies among clergymen were carried on chiefly among the clergy and behind closed doors. Today the newspaper constitutes everj' man a theologian and drags the discussion out of the clerical conclave into the market place. .A.s a result—and I ask you to note this specially—the average man who does not or can not follow theological questions close­ly gets a vague impression that no­body knows anything about religion, and that the old-fashioned doctrine was not theology but mythology. Old standards of virtuous living being irk­some are likely to disappear ^Wth old doctrines of religion. We must not expect the school at its best under these conditions to create or nui-tui-e religious faith. The pulpit must help. 
".. . There are so many spiritual anaemics among the old families of America and so many sterilized, or at best devitalized, church members among the wholesome middle classes (from whom all popular salvation comes) so much scientific unbelief among the intellectual Brahmins in schools and out of them, so much i-ad­ical tendency and material preoccupa­tion and religious indifference among certain elements of the new immigra­tion as to make the background of American life more largely irreligious than it has ever been before. The school alone cannot medicine this dis­ease. Likewise, in the matter of morals, so long as parents are care­less about the companions, the hours, the details of what is called amuse­ment, so long as young people see plays and read novels in which the first alluring sin of lust is glorified as a 'soul-awakening' and all that fol­lows is treated merely as 'experience,' the school will struggle in vain to stem the flood of immorality. Let 
The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
us not, therefore, expect a miracle here; let the Church, the home, the press, and an enlightened public opinion share with the school in the responsibility, the remorse, and the resolution of amendment. 
".. . The two elemental needs of men are said to be nutrition and pro­creation. Men must have food; men must have family. The protection of these involves justice and sex control; in practice these things are impossible \vithout supernatural sanction and this seems to be the explanation of the univei'sality of primitive religion on its pragmatic side. Then as time passes historj' shows religion as the great Civilizer which in the beginning took hold of savage men, strong in the strength of the earth, and bowed him in adoration before the only stronger force, God. History shows religion, in spite of some bigotry and backwardness here, some narrowness and nonsense there among its friends, as the gi'eat Educator, the founder of universities, the builder of cathedrals, the sculptor of great statues, the painter of immortal pictures—and this to explain and bring nearer the remote mysterious deity. Histoiy shows religion as the great Empire-Builder, unifying primitive groups, suggesting finer aspirations, conse­crating convictions and good deeds, inspiring men to endure persecution and exile and danger and death for principle, doing all over the world what it did for America when it sent the pioneers and the nation-builders from the mellow ci\'ilizations of Eu­rope into the wilderness, in search of freedom of worship. Unbelief never created a civilization, it never found­ed a university, never begot or nur­tured a nation. . . 
"I call your attention to the fact that we do not build Catholic thea­ters or hotels or stores, nor establish separate daily newspapers nor poli­tical parties nor libraries, nor even football teams. We do like to have our parochial schools wherever pos­sible precisely because we believe in the intimate connection between reli­gious training and education. The Church, the school and the home are the three institutions which immedi­ately form and color the thinking 
•fibre even of the grown man. How much more tinily may we say that the Church, the school and the home are the three absolutely vital and essen­tial forces in the formation of the youth's mind and character? Now, eveiybody expects the Church to be intensely spiritual and religious. The ideal home also is expected to be spiritual and religious. How can the other influence, the school, be.effec­tive in spiritualizing, refining and il­luminating the minds of youth unless it have a strong, religious character? We don't attempt to make people of various creeds attend the same Church, not to flavor their homes with the same spiritual aroma; yet we do turn them over to the every day influence of one particular type of school. . . 
"Besides, religion is at once a doc­trine and a life. I know there are those who say, 'I don't care what a man's religious belief is provided his life is right.' It is about as wise to say, 'I don't care what the weather is —whether we have incessant rain or prolonged drought, whether we have a constant blazing sun or persistent cool weather—provided we get crops from the farm and the garden.' Right conditions make good crops; right moral teaching and religious feeling make good principles and wholesome lives. Now it is absurd to expect children in the grade schools or young people in the high schools to provide themselves with anything like systematic religious and moral edu­cation without the combined influ­ences of the Church, the school and the home. 
".. . Men cannot wait for their religion until they are old and gray. They need it most of all in youth and veiy specially they need it during those crucial years in which the Al­mighty is making over their bodies and their rdnds and laying up in their bosoms the powers and energies that will make them home builders in the future. Don't ask the laboring man, don't ask the overworked business or professional man, or the immature youth, to work out his own system of religious belief any more than you would ask him to work out his own system of mathematics of physics or chemistry..." 
The Clash 

Baccalaureate sermon at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, June 7, 1925. 
".. . In dreams by day and in holy visions by night you have said to yourselves: What though I live in a palatial house if everj' room in it be haunted by the ghosts of dead faiths and hopes and loves? What though I lounge and languish in luxurious lim­ousines if, for want of moral control, I am only rushing on to death at the crossing? What though Wealth crown me with sparkling tiaras and w^reathe my fingers with jeweled rings; what though Love twine around my neck the sunset fires of rubies and opals, or clothe me in soft rustling garments costing a King's ransom and brought a thousand miles on the backs of camels—what will all this profit me if the tiara crown only means that my soul has abdicated her eternal throne?—if the ring only means a link in the chain of spiritual slavery? —if the flaming necklace only proph­esies everlasting fires and the ashes of death?—if the precious exotic vesture only means shame and naked­ness to the all-beholding eye of God? 
". . . What profit if I enjoy indo­lence and comfort and self-indulgence by shrinking from uncomfortable du­ties or the exacting practice of my religion? What if I gain the whole world and lose or desecrate my happy home which is all the world to me? What exchange shall I accept for the serene joy of a good conscience, the sweetness of a placid, untroubled, fearless soul, the lirgin beauty of my heart's affection, the chastitj' of eye and tongue and thought that makes the world seem white and lovely? What profit, though I enjoy smiles and favor and applause, if through cowardice I deny the ti-uth or blush for religion in the face of societj' or wealth or distinction or what is called culture? Thus with solemn religious chant speaks today and always the Voice of the Convent. . . 
".. . Note how star-eyed faith, turning away from excessive reveUy and dissipation, finds in simple homes and simple hearts the secret of laugh­ter and the wells of joy." 
".. . You may ti-averse the far­

•thest fields of learning, you may pen­etrate the deepest fastnesses of thought, you may explore the darkest caverns of philosophy, and though you have the mind of an archangel, you will never come to the end of its Infinite largeness and freedom. Only remember this always: to enter it, even though you have the mind of an archangel, you must have the heart of a child—a childlike heart, not a childish heart, a heart pure and trust­ing and sincere. . . 
"The Voice of the World says, 'You must be of your time. People do dress and dance that way. People do smoke cigarettes and drink ^rine, and keep very late hours unchaper­oned. People do toss their caresses around like election circulars on the sti-eets and throw off the old-fash­ioned reticences and safe-guards.' And then the Voice of the World, which never lacked beguiling rhetoric for its purposes nor art for its seduc­tiveness, adds the final appeal: 'Ev­erj'body's doing it. Be a good sport. Be a real pal. Limber up your con­science or get off the track. Take the starch out of your philosophy, if you don't want to be a wallflower.' Coarse words and images, these; but they are not mine. They are the re­fined and romantic rhetoric of green and gilded youth. 
"And this time what shall the an­swer be? 'The best men who have ever lived are those who cai-ried the heart of a little child into the ^visdom and ripeness of their strong, achiev­ing manhood. The divinest women have been those whose attitude to old-fashioned faith and morals has been childlike—^submissive, dutiful, artless, trustful. The ugliest word among all ugly words in all the languages of men is sophistication—folly in the 

The l^otre liame cAlumnus 
guise of wisdom, the adroit dressing of a lie to make it look like truth.'" 
Behold! The Dreamer Cometh 
Commencement address delivered at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, June 7, 1927. 
"There are two kinds of dreamers. There is the dreamer that never wakes up, and there is the dreamer that is never so wide awake as when he di-eams. The first floats along on the stream of life without objective and without effort, and inevitably anives at his proper destination— which is nowhere. The other even while he dreams of treading the path­way of the stars has his feet firmly planted upon earth. The end he aims at is as remote and beautiful as a dream; the means he takes to reach it are as practical, hard, toilsome as the labors of a slave. With the wool­gathering dreamer who passes his days and his years in languor and lassitude we are not concerned; the dreamer who is most awake when he dreams is the builder of nations and the savior of peoples. . . 

"You are the daughters of dream­ei-s, of fathers and mothers who through may generations of struggle and persecution, perhaps, still clung pathetically to the beautiful, super­natural visions of the past. You owe much spiritually to your inheritance, for the blood that flows serenely in your veins has been refined and chastened by generations of discipline and virtuous living. You owe even more to your environment, growing up in a home almost as holy as an altar, at the knees of a mother al­most as sacred as a Madonna, living here on a cahipus that may be most truly called the Place of Dreams, and nutured in a school that is literally the Mountain of Fair Vision. How could it be otherwise than that you, the children of saints and dreamers, the inspired daughters of Saint Mary's, should be poets and builders in aspii-ation and desire? . . . 
"But may not the dreamer in this more cultured and civilized era ex­pect a kindlier fate? Is not the world, as college graduates are supposed to» believe, waiting for him with a club! And it is not a Glee Club either. The world stands around the gates of your college as you emerge this morning with your crimson honors afiush upon your brow, and looking enviously upon you the world says: 'Behold, the dreamer cometh! Let us kill her.' That is almost the only use the world has ever found for a dreamer—to kill him. The Greatest of all Dreamers, if one may say so reverentially, was that Divine Figure who yearned for the salvation of the world, and who for His dream of heavenly love and divine compassion was nailed by Envy 
May, 1935 

to the cross. So, too, seven Greek cities 'claim him dead, through which blind, living Homer begged his bread'; and so, too, the city of Flor­ence has pleaded for centuries for the dust of that immortal Dante whom she exiled, whom she taught how un­savory in the eating is other men's bread, and how sad a thing it is to look at happiness through another man's eyes. The martyrs of religion, the martyrs of science, the martjTs of human liberty, have all been dreamers whom the savagery, the cruelty, the suspicion of the world looked upon with hatred, saying, 'Let us kill them!' The modern world, it is true, doesn't always say 'Let us kill the dreamer.' Sometimes it mere­ly says, 'Let us make a poet of him and starve him on a crust of bread in a garret. Let us make a teacher of him in a Catholic college and let him spend his days and his nights revelling in the thin delights of his etherial dreams and desires. Let him cultivate literature on a little oat­meal, and philosophize like Diogenes in a tub.' There are indeed occasion­al dreamers who have found the pot of gold at the end of their i-ainbow, but most of them have been con­strained to live in the palace of dreams vrith onlj- dream food, dream comfort, and dream love. 
"You remember that after his brethren had stripped Joseph of his coat of many colors, the next thing they did was to pity him. 'Let us not kill him,' they said, 'Let us just throw him into this old cistern.' It is so the world will treat the modern dreamei'. Once it is sure that he not a competi­tor in offices where the rewards are gold or comfort, the dreamer will not be without a certain kind of recogni­tion. The governor will make him poet laureate of the state without salary, and invite him to read an ode at the centennial celebration. The president will appoint the oi-ator ambassador—oh, not to Rome or Paris or London or Berlin or Madrid, but to Patagonia or Finland. The mayor of the great city will ask the professor of history to serve gratui­tously on the historical commission to celebrate the golden jubilee of the fire department. The great teacher in the schools will be invited to read a paper before some convention of other dreamers, or before the Nation­al Association for the Destruction of the Comborer and the Bollweevil. It is as though some burly bully had crowded a gentle artist away from the table richly laden «ith food, but per­mitted him to make a sketch of the 
"Young ladies, wherever the dreamer goes, his verj' distinction, and expecially his beauty, will con­stitute for him a special peril. Pre­cisely because you, too, are dreamers and beautiful, you will have to face great and peculiar temptations. And 
May, 1935 
in the hour of trial the wage of battle will be decided by just one principle: Are you content to compromise, or not? Joseph might have found many i-easons for compromising. He might have said, 'Well, I'm certainly a long way from home! I'm probably the only Jewish boy in all Egj-pt today! I'm so poor and so helpless, so fright­ened and so discouraged, that I can't afford to offend anybody. I didn't start this thing, did I? Anyway, she is older than I am! She's my boss and I can't afford to displease her. It will be all right just this once and I'll keep out of the way aftenvards!' There are a dozen things Joseph could have said to himself by way of compromise. Instead, he left his cloak in the hands of temptation, and by a sad necessity at once fled into the open arms of unjust accusation, mal­ice, and calumny. Young ladies, though your hands and feet and heart be as white as Our Lady's sandals you must be prepared in some meas­ure for calumny and misrepresenta­tion and misjudgment by a world that doesn't believe in dreams or white­ness. . . " 
Thomas Addis Emmet, M.D. 
.-1 personal tribute (in booklet form) by Father Cavanaugh. 
"There is a charm that eludes analysis in studying the family his­toid of a great man. To trace far back the thin streams beginning, per­haps, in obscure, faraway springs and trickling down through time by de­vious ways to meet their confluence in him, is an adventure that piques curiosity in both writer and reader. You always know a man better when you have got a close view of 'the rock from which he was hewn and the cave from which he was digged.' If Tennyson could truly boast 'I am a part of all whom I have met,' what shall be said of those mystic influ­ences exhaling from great ancestry, —especially when they were of bril­liance to attract the eye of the whole world, of a splendor to fill even strangers with pride in our common humanit}', and tinctured with such heroism and romance as the world can never forget. It is hard, indeed, to turn away from the fascinating subject of the Emmet family—^from young Robert, 'so intelligent, so gen­erous, so brave, so everything that we are apt to like in a young man,' so lofty and intrepid in facing con­demnation by a judge and a political system that the world has never ceased to condemn since, the hero of every boy of Irish blood for many generations, a figure with an irresist­ible appeal to all who are sensible to pathos and romance and eloquence and sublime courage. It is even harder for the scholar to resist the temptation to exegete the life and the 
The ^ofre 'Dame c/Humnus 
labors and especially the seemingly 
inspired utterances and ^vritings of 
Robert's gi-eat brother, Thomas Addis> 
Emmet, who was the chief philoso­
pher of the glorious but ill-fated 
movement of which Robert was the 
man of action. The late Doctor Em­
met always maintained, in his talks 
with me, that his grandfather was the 
greater of the two brothers in every­
thing except the infinite pathos of a 
young man's death. And even those 
of us who can still be moved to tears 
and thrills by the eloquence of that 
unforgettable speech from the dock 
are constrained to admit that in 
scholarship, in ^^sion, and in states­
manship the name of Thomas Addis 
Emmet has not yet received due ap­
preciation from historical sobrietj'. It 
is hard, I say, to turn away from 
these great names, and yet precisely 
because they are so great and be­
cause the woi-ld knows them so well 
(largely through the reverential de­
votion of the subject of this sketch) 
we must for the present resist the 
temptation. 
".. . If men who deserve monu­ments always got them in this hus­tling and advertising world there would be lifted up in honor of Emmet a monument almost as high as the monument to Washington in the Cap­ital of bur counti-y. Some day I hope that monument will find its place in the gi'eat City ol New York, to which his name lent such distinction, and when it comes it ought to come out of the gi'eateful hearts and memories of American women. 
".. . Perhaps the hour is not far distant when some Irish artisan—to be foi-ever distinguished in histoiy as a person as memorable as that other who (in an hour perhaps not too re­mote) will take his stand on a broken arch of London Bridge to sketch the ruins of St. Paul's—will cai-i'e upon a slab of expectant and gi-ateful Irish granite the epitaph of Robert Emmet. Perhaps the venei-ated dust of Robert Emmet may be gathered from his ob­scure resting place to be inurned un­derneath that stone,—for Doctor Em­met told me once of a tradition that there was one Irish family that knew the secret of Robert Emmet's burial place and handed it down with sacra­mental fidelity from generation to generation till the day shall come when the secret may be divulged and the sacred dust gathered for memor­ial honors and reverential burial. That would be a suitable hour for the home-coming of him who may in a certain sense be called the last of the Emmets, who embodied in his life work their genius, their noble nature, and their passionate devotion to Ireland, who kept alive the fires of remembrance on the altars of the old-fashioned Irish patriotism. May the Irish sod, if so be, show a richer green above his grave, and may the blessings of Patrick, Brigid and Col­um-Cille rest on his sweet memory!" 
Rev. John Talbot Smith, LL.D. 
.4 personal tribute fin booklet form) hij Father Cavanaugh. 
". . . His manner of foundinir the Catholic Actors' Guild and the Cath­olic Writers' Guild required not mer­ely vision but all the initiatiTe, cour­age, enthusiasm, tact and originality his varied gifts could provide. The normal attitude of ecclesiastics to the stage has historically been that of the mother of ten who said to the eldest: 'Go out and see what baby is doing and tell him to quit.' And likewise the normal judgment of good people about stage-folk has been that of Sandy McCawley who in shocked ac­cents but without diverting his eyes from the chorus whispered to the gude-wife: 'Elsie, thon's gude actin' but awfu' bat conduc'. The levite has seldom been a Good Samaritan to the theatre people— seemingly on the theorj' that all live actors are bad actors. Dr. Smith was an attractive blend of innocent sophisticate and pious priest. He saw the stage, one of the most powerful of social forces abandoned very largely to the world, the flesh and the devil. He would purify this mighty agency by sur­rounding the mummers with a Cath­olic atmosphere and a strong religious spirit ... 
"One day, for example, the Varsity Nine, returned that very morning from an eastern trip where they had taken the scalps of a dozen famous colleges, was fated to meet our an­cient enemy, Indiana, on our own diamond. It was not an even chance. Our men, though distinctly superior, were wearied with travel and a long string of hard ^mes; they made a balloon ascension in the fourth in­ning and before they came down In­diana had made the score four to three against us. With all the art of a gleeful demon Dr. Smith, though feeling at least as much concern as myself, made pretense of jibing me about it as we walked far down be­yond the outfield, but I remained jauntily confident and imperturbable. Without a doubt it was the most heart-breaking and dramatic baseball game ever seen on the campus. The fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, and one half of the ninth in­ning passed and still the score was four to three. By this time Dr. Smith and I had fidgeted up to the players' bench. Our first batsman struck out; our second made a pop fly and per­ished miserably. As the third man se­lected his bat I said to Dr. Smith: 'Cut the sign of the Cross on that man' and it was reverently and duly done. 'Strike one' said the umpire. 'Strike two!' 'Ball one,' and two' and 'three!' The campus felt the hash of death. Were all the eastern laurels gathered in alien fields to wither in their very greenness in our own gar­den and before the Indiana men? It 
The '3^0/re 'Dame cAlumnus May, 1935 
looked as if Dr. Smith's blessing had not taken! Then when the very last ball seemingly betiveen us and dis­aster, was pitched one of our fellows drove it safely into left field for a three-bagger; and the next man knocked a home-run and won the game by the score of five to four. Venerable professors shrieked; fren­zied collegians without rebuke and ^\ithout distinction of sex embraced 'perfect strangers' from South Bend. It was the only day I can remember flinging up ray biretta on an athletic field. . . " 
"What Shall a Man Give In Exchange for His Soul?" 
—Mark, viii., ST. 
". . . When the infant Church knocked for entrance at the gates of the Roman Empire, persecution with its thousand hands sought to strangle her at the threshold. And when at last the thirst for blood was sated; when the smoke of burning incense ascended no more from the altars of Jupitor and Venus; when the blood-dripping, uplifted sword fell to the earth and the persecuting arm rested through verj' weariness; when Con­stantine made Christianity the relig­ion of the world, forthwith began that long struggle between the Popes and the Emperors, between the secu­lar power and the forces of Faith that lasted, with only occasional interrup­tions, down to the great religious re­volt of the sixteenth centurj'- Then creeds screeched maledictions against rival creeds; then kings and emperors laid waste the world with pillage and persecution; then, for the first time in Christendom, humanity was cursed with the domination of theology over theology and creed over creed which has dissipated so much of the intel­lectual and moral energies of the last four hundred years . . . 
". . . Then appeared the eloquent and blasphemous IngersoU, whose part in popularizing infidelitj' in America has never been fully appre­ciated. One merit alone, he discov­ered in Christianity—it enabled a clever lawyer to make five hundred dollars a night lecturing against it; and men who had already lost much of their practice of Christianity now lost more of their reverence for it. The magazine and the newspaper too often aided this propaganda of irrev­erence . . . 
/ ".. . Unbelief is not often incul­cated directly and formally, perhaps, but the professor of English, for ex­ample, may unconsciously and most effectively teach unbelief by exalting those authors whose philosophy has been un-Christian or even anti-Chris­tian, while paying small tribute to men of genius who were religious-minded. The professor of History may charm away Providence out of the past, may make chance or lust or ambition the only determinant fac­tors of history, or he may so far cru­cify the truth as to contend that the Church has been the enemy of learn­ing and progress and prosperity. Pro­fessors of Political Economy may in­culcate false doctrines of morality like Malthus or propagate Material­ism like Marx. Sociologists may out­rage Christian ethics and biologists war against God. All of this may be done without the appearance of direct attack, but the effect is for this rea­son all the more disastrous.yAnd even where the subject matter is essential­ly neutral and the professor reticent, the young man falls under the spell of admiration for a favorite profes­sor. He may teach matters as innocu­ous as mathematics or engineering, but he is known to live decadently and to be an unbeliever, and the young hero-worshipper begins to wonder whether religion is really the all-important thing it seemed to him before he went to college. Apart, then, from the influence of blatant infidels or sensational agnostics, the subtle thing called atmosphere is a mortal peril in the non-religious school . . . 
".. . Against the schools where everything in the universe may be studied save the Master of the uni­
Tel egrams 
verse, where every name in historj­is mentioned save Christ, the teacher of mankind, such a school as this is a protest and a challenge . . . 
" '. . . What shall a man give in exchange for his soul?', and this Uni­versity answers that life in all its fullness and sweetness is open to you; that liberty of mind and heart and body of yours; that the deepest fast­nesses of thought and the darkest depths of philosophy are your free hunting grounds, but that faith shall go before you as a light and Christ will be with you as a guide in all your searching and striving. This school exists in order that Christian youth may have the best education in the land without the monstrous price of doubt and desolation and despair. The religious school, then, is primari­ly a fortress of faith. 
".. . There are two standards un­der which men march—Brutality and Idealism. The first assembles around itself all low views of life and duty and the possibilities of human nature. Its appeal to the human heart lies in indulgence, its accomplishment in hu­man history has been destruction. Through divorce it destroys the fam­ily; through tolerance of free living it assassinates chastity. It worships comfort and exalts money into the place of God; it never bred a nation nor built a city nor created a civiliza­tion nor inspired a good life. Idealism is white and clean and star-eyed. It turns its face to God as naturally as the morning flower to the sun. It be­lieves in purity and prayer and gen­tleness and all the good and true and noble things of life. It has inspired all the great dreams of the prophets and priests and poets of humanity and all the great deeds of the empire-builders and reformers and apostles. It is never lost except with the loss of faith and morals, and it knows that its morals are the custodian of its faith. It has lived through all the ages of time and it knows that the long lesson of human historj' is that no individual and no nation was ever destroyed except by sin ... " 

Have just learned with profound rejiret of the passint; of Father I was greatly shocked by the sad news of Father Cavanaugh's death John Cavanaueh. Mrs. Roosevelt joins me in extending to his associates having enjoyed his splendid friendship for over forty years I feel this and friends our heartfelt sympathy in their great sorrow. is a great personal loss to me as well as to the University. I cannot 
Franklin D. RoDsevelt leave at present other\viso would attend funeral. Many thanks for wire. George M. Anson. 
I extend to the congregation and the University my heartfelt sympathy for the death of Father Cavanaugh. May he rest in peace My deepest sympathy to you all at Notre Dame in the loss of my Archbishop Clcognani, dear friend. What a wonderful work he did for Notre Dame. Feel Apostolic Delegate bad not to be on hand but impossible for me to go. Joe Byrne. 
Sympathy and prayers from Diocete of TolodD. Monsignor Walz has relayed your message and our clergy will be represented tomorrow The local alumni deeply regret the death of Father Cavanaugh. Our Am arriving South Bend ten forty nine tonight. sincercst sj-mpathy in this irreparable loss to the University. A Mass 
Bishop Alter. has been arranged for the coming week. Notre Dame Club of Syracuse and Central New York. 
Extend our deepest sympathy to the Community of the Holy Cross in the loss of a great priest. Father Cavanaugh. IVe knew him and My sympatthy to you and your colleagues. I have lost a valued, reverenced him as an inspiring teacher and most dear friend. beloved friend, Notre Dame a colorful, courageous protagonist and our 
Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, nation a great thinker, teacher and character builder. I will attend the Clarke College funeral services Tuesday. Jerome J. Crowley. 
May, 1935 The 'H^otre 
Accept my feclinKS of condolence with Holy Cross Community on loss of Fatther Cavannugh. W, P. Bums. 
On behalf of Indiana University I wish to express my profound appreciation of the eminent abilities of President Cavanaugh. I regret that an important enKngemont prevents my attending the services. Indiana University will be represented at the funeral by Superintendent Frank E. Allen. William Lowe Bryan. 
Grieved to note the death of our grand mutual friend. Father Cav­annugh. Certainly regret the circumstances which prevent my being at Notre Dame now. Henr>- Bamhart. 
Kindness, generosity and friendliness marked Father Cavanaugh's name indelibly on Notre Dame men in life. Our prayers go with him in eternal rest. Maurice Carroll. 
Deepest regret, symjiathy, condolence to you, the order, loss sus­tained in death of mutual friend, writer and benefactor of order. Rev. John Cavanaugh. Rev. P. J. Crawley. 
Your wire received advising of the death of Father Cavanaugh. The members of the Congregation have my sincere sympathy. The death of Father Cavanaugh is a loss not only to Notre Dame and its alumni but to supporters of the institutions and advocates of the principles of exalted American manhood with which he was so closely affiliate<l and for which he has been so long an inspiring exemplar and vigorous exponent. He was my dear friend and fraternal adviser. I was with him at BanksDn lake frequently during the summer of 1903 immediately following his appointment as president of the University. His memorj* always shall remain green and his name shall be spoken with affection. 
T. B. Cosgmvo. 
I mourn with you the loss of Father Cavanaugh. not only OUL* of the great builders of Notre Dame but al.=o one of the nation's foremost citizens. J. J. Cooke. 
We join in the universal mourning occasioned by the passing of our beloved Father Cavanaugh. Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati. 
The prayers of the Warren Cartiers arc mingled with tho:;^' uf Notre Dame in the loss of Father John Cavanaugh. Mrs. Warren Cartier and family. 
On my arrival at my office today from Florida I receivcil >x>ur telegram informing me of the death and funeral service of Father Cavanaugh. I am deeply grieve<l over the passing on of this distin­guisiied priest whose constant friendship I was proud to claim for many years. I extend my sincere sympathy to Father O'Hara and to you and his associates at Notre Dame. Matthew J. Carney. 
Please accept my sincere sympathy in the great loss the University ot Notre Dame, its faculty students and alumni have suffered in the passing of Rev. John Cavanaugh wijo as resident, priest, scholar and teacher contributed so greatly to the University's success. 
Martin H. Carmotly. Supreme Knight. K. of C. 
Please convey to the family of Father Cavanaugh my deepest sym­pathy in their bereavement, I know what a great loss his death will be to you all. E. J. I>oyle. 
We were ver>* sorr>- to htar of our good friend Father Cavanaugh's death. Am arranging today to have Gregorian Thirties said for him. Our sympathy to ^-ou and the faculty. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Dohony. 
While enroute I just learned of the passing of dear Father Cav­anugh and I wish to extend my heartfelt sympathy to you and your associates. Dr. J. M. Dinnen. 
Carlham joins Notre Dame in paj-ing sincere tribute to the mem­ory of a good man and great educator. 
W. C. Dennis, president. Earlham College. 
I am siuldened and shocked to receive the message tonight from Professor Paul Fenlon telling of the death of our beloved Father Cav­anaugh. He was a wonderful friend to my brother. Charles Phillips, and since my brother's death a year ago has been a comforting friend to me and he will leave many lonesome friends to mourn him. 
Mrs. Eva Phillips Donahue. 
Deeply appreciate Father Burke's kindness in sending messase advising us of dear Father Cavanaugh's death. While not unexpectei! Father Cavanaugh's death is another irreparable loss to Notre Dame University and to the Community of the Fathers of the Holy Cross and another veo' dear friend of ours has passe*l. For years and years he labored most effectively for the honor and glory of God our beloved country and the University. We fer\'ently pray that rest eternal shall be his portion. 
Isidore, Bernard anil Gertrude Reeve Dockweiler. 
*T>ame oAlumnus 
229 

The faculty and students of Notre Dame College express deep sor­row and prayerful sympathy in the death of Father John Cavanaugh, distinguished educatot, priestly inspirer and friend. 
Mather Mary Evarista, president, Notre Dame College, South Euclid. O. 

The Notre Dame University Club of Central Ohio together with the unlimited ntmiber of acquaintances of beloved Fathter Cavanaugh express their profound grief and sympathy to Notre Dame and relatives at his loss. Ho will ever be remembered by those who knew him. 
Ray .1. Eichcnlaub. 

Purdue University conveys to the University of Notre Dame deep­est sympathy for the passing of the devoted and distinguished former president. Father .Tohn Ca\-anaugh. Edward C. Elliott. 
President of Purdue. 

St. Meinratl Abbey extends sincere condolence on occasion of the death of Father Cavanaugh. Abbot Ignatius Esser. O.S.B. 
The Notre Djime Club of the Connecticut Valley wish to express dt-ep regret with the passing of Father Cavanaugh. one of the most nationally renowned priests, great orator, one of the finest professors, sidendid author, friend to all that he met, especially the boys. Great will be his reward. Thomas E. Ferguson, president. 
I am deeply sricved to learn of the death of Father Cavanaugh. In his passing the countrj* sustains the loss of a great priest and c<lu­cator and one nf its most valuable citizens. 
James A. Farley, Postmaster General. 

Regret to leai-n of passing away of your dear president. Father Cavanugh. Sorry I cannnt attend services Fred .1. Fisher. 
Sorry to hear of death of Father Cavanaugh. Please accept my heartfelt sympathy. Regret no one here can attend funeral. Msgr. Francis Hyland, The Apostolic Delegation. 
Ver>- sorry to hear the death of Father .lohn Cavanaugh. Peter Griffin. *08. 
It painetl me to hear of the death of Father Cavanaugh. I do not knriw how to express my sympathy. It is impossible for me to be present at the funeral. Right Reverend Abbott antl Community join me in extending to you our condolence. 
Father Gregory, O.S.B. St. Gregory's Abbey. Shawnee, Oklahoma. 

Was shoeketl to hear of the death of our beloved Rev. John Cav­anaugh. His memorj- will be cherishetl by all who knew him. Accept my sincere sj-mpathy. Maurice H. Goldblatt. 
As one who has had the highest regard for your good Father CavanauKh as a gentleman am! a molder of men. I extend my deepest sympitthy upon his passing. Ernest R. Graham. 
On behalf of the Notre Dame Aliunni association permit me to express the deep sorrow of all Notre Dame men in the k>ss of Father CaN'anaugh. He was known, respected and loved by all. That his full life on this earth may be followed by eternal peace is our €?amcst prayer. Timothy P. Galvin, 
President, Alumni Association 

Sincerust sympathy in Notre Dame's bereavement of one who by i administration, scholarship and saintliness of life contributed so much \ to the glor>- of an outstanding school of Christ, May he rest in peace. \ 
Cardinal Haye&\ 

The Toledo Notre Dame club wishes to offer its prayers, Masses and Communions for our beloved friend and "Dean of Our Lady's Tradition." Notre Dame's loss is heaven's gain. We wish to extenil our deepest sympathy, John P. Hurley. Jr., trustee 
In the death of Father Cavanaugh Notre Dame has lost its most profoundly brilliant priest and alumnus. He was my president and in time of dire need by saintly friend. I sincerely regret that my pres­ence here prevents my attendance tomorrow. 
Arthur J. Hughes. 

Accept my sincere symathy in the death of Father Cavanaugh. Most Rev. Francis W. Howard, Wshop of Covintxton. 
The members of the Notre Dame Club of Lou Angeles learn with sorrow of the death of Father Cavanaugh whose memory they revere for his brilliance, goodness and cheerful kindliness. Our deeiwst sym­pathy to the congregation and the faculty and students of the Uni­versity, Thomas H. Heam. president. 
Sincerest sympathy to all in loss of beloved Father CavanauRh. Most Rev. James J. Hartley. Bishop of Columbus. 
Few Notre Dame men will ever do as much Rood as Father John CavanauKh. I am awfully sorry he is Kone. Alansiel Hajierty. 
My deepest sympathy in the death of Father Cavanaush. Jack HaRnn. '3-1. 
Wo sympathize with >v>u in your loss, a loss to us all. Regret my inability to be with you Tuesday. Father Sullivan of Chicaso will rep­resent the Paulists. Ver>- Rev. John B. Harney, C.S.P. 
Superior General, Paulist Fathers. 
In the death of dear Father Cavanaueh our heartfelt sympathy to you and the Concrepation of Holy Cross, Mindful of the loss sustained in the passinjr of this Raltant leader, distinguished educator and schol­arly son of Notre Dame, we mourn with you. May his beautiful soul rest in peace. Helen May Irwin. 
Our deep pi-ofoundcst regrets comes with the passing away of Father CavanauRh. We will never see his like ajmin. May Our Lady of the Lake look with pity on the stricken Conprcfration of Holy Cross. 
Dr. Ellen Ryan Jolly. 
More than Notre Dame will Miss Father CavanauKh. preat priest. scholar, brilliant writer and onitor. My friend of many years. Sorr>­I cannot be with you. Msjrr. G. P. Jenninns. 
Qevoland. Ohio 

A beautiful and useful life's devotion to Our Lady closed with Father Cavanauffh's death. In the loss of this dear, true friend. I and my family extend our s>Tnpathy to the Holy Cross Order. 
Leroy J. Keach. 
Notre Dame men and all interested in the welfare of our University mourn the loss of one of her most illustrious and beloved sons. Father Cavanauch made history- and left a glorious heritage. His name will be held in prayerful remembrance as lonir as Notre Dame endures. 
Byron V. Kanaley, chairman. 
Board of Lay Trustees. 
I mourn Father Cavanaujrh. He was so great and splendid. Louis Ludlow Confrrossman. Indianapolis. 
Accept my deep s>-mpathy on death of our good friend. Father Cavanaugh. John McCormack. 
Heartfelt sympathy in death of Father Cavanaugh. Regret local engagement prevents me from attending funeral but I join with you in honoring memory of great University president and praying for an old friend. Most Rev, Ed%vard Mooney, 
Bishop of Rochester 
Greatly shocked to learn of dear Father Cavanaugh's death. For forty years have regarded him as one of my best friends. Please accept my sincere sympathy in great loss you have suffered. 
Angus D. McDonald. 
I extend to the Holy Cross Fathers my profound s>Tnpathy for the loss of that brilliant and splendid priest, that kind, noble and charm­ing character. Father John Cavanaugh. 
Dr. Walter G. McGuire. 
The loss of our dear Father Cavanaugh has caused sincere grief "to our whole Community. We wish to assure you of the deep sjTnpathy and prayers of the Dominican Sisters of Springfield. Illinois. 
Grieved to learn of Father Cavanaugh's death. Wonderful man. Mr. and Mrs. Alonso R. Meyers. 
Our heartfelt sympathy goes to you in the passing of Father Cav­anaugh. The University has lost a great man. We have lost a sincere friend. Judge and Mrs. Don S. Mulholland. 
Deeply regret passing of Father Cavanaugh. My sj-mpathy to all. John G. Mott. 
Sincerest s>*mathy from one whose school boy admiration for Father 
Cavanaugh ripened through glorious years into intimate and treasured 
friendship. May he rest in peace. Rev. HL L. Moriarty. 
Director of Catholic Charities 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

Sincerely regret duties here prevent my attending funeral of your esteemed former president. Although ho has gone to his spiritual reward his* memory will linger in the minds and hearts of all who knew him. his ideals and accomplishments. In the field of education will bo an inspiration and a challenge for all who come after him to carrj' on his noble work. You have my deepest sympathy. 
Senator Sherman Minton. 
Deeply shocked and grieved by the death of our beloved Father Cavanaugh, whose cherished friendship, kindliness, brilliance and influ­ence for more than 2.5 years- have been our blessings and ever will be our treasures. Greatly regret we are suddenly end unavoidably pre­vented from attending last rites. We offered our Holy Communion this morning for him. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Miller. • 
I was exceedingly sorry to learn of the passing of Father Cav­anaugh. I always admired him as he was truly an inspiration to every N'ltre Dame student and he will indeed be missed by the alumni. I regret that I cannot attend the funeral. Joseph R. McGraw 
We are shocked and grieved at the news of the passing of Father Cavanaugh. America has lost an outstanding i)atriot and scholar and the groat University to which he brought distinctron the world over one of its noblest sons. As he shone here so will ho shine in the life eternal. James L, McGovem. editor. 
Tivtcs-SUtr, Bridgeport, Conn. 

We mourn with you in death of an illustrious man. The University and the alumni and thousands of friends arc saddened today because of this great loss. Personal contact and close friendship makes us appre­ciate fully what this loss means. Our sincere sympathy and earnest prayers go out to you. Dr. and Mrs. J. A. McCarthy. 
Very sorrj- to hear of Father Cavanaugh's death. Will attend ser­vices tomorrow if possible. C. Roy McCanna. 
Sincere condolence to the members of the Holy Cross Order. Sisters of Mercy. Grand Rapids. Michigan. 
Grieved to hear of the death of Father Cavanaugh. Ho loft a rich deposit of the Celtic genius in the annals of Notre Dame. Charles D. Maginnis. 
I am deeply grieved to learn of the death of one who has meant so much to me for almost 25 years. His tolerance, his words of encour­agement and good cheer meant ever so much to mi*. He was my padre. No one can take his place. Conrad H. JIann. 
May I express my profound regrrt at the loss of a beloved friend and a ffreat power for good in the death of F.ither Cavanaugh. The world is better for his having lived in it. ' Haro* S. New. 
Regret exceedingly slate senate hearing requires me to be in Har­risburg Tuesday. Otherwise would most ceitjiinly attend funeral ser­vices. The ok! oaks arc falling too fast- Death of Father Cavanaugh saddens heart of all Notre Dame men of past. Our privilege was to know him and forever love him. Philadelphia Club will attend Mass in bo<Iy for i-eposc of soul of Father Cavanaugh and Knute Rockne. Cathedral March 31. John H. Neeson. 
Extremely sorry to learn of the death of our good friend. Father John. You have my heartfelt sympathy and condolence. Ho will be raissoil by many of his admirers throughout the nation. Ho has done great deal for Notre Dame and humanity. Sirry cannot attend funeral. 
Dr. D. M. Nigro. 

Sincerest sympathy from all Georgetown Univereity on the death of beloved and esteemed Father John Cavanaugh. We realize that his is a loss not only to your distinguished institution but to all who are interested in education. We join you in prayers for his eternal repose. 
Rev. Coleman Nevils. S.J. 
President, Georgetown University. 

The faculty. studenU and board of trustees of DePauw University, join me in expressing our sinccrcst sympathy in this hour that marks the passing President Emeritus Cavanaugh. 
Dr. G. Bromley Oxnam, President, DePauw University. 

Shocked at Father Cavanaugh's death. Looked so well when I visited Notre Dame in October. Practically all the course of my life has been mixed with his and he became one of my cherished friends and I one of his greatest admirers. I have suffered a loss that noth­ing can repay. Hugh A. O'Donnell. 
Our people prayed for Dr. Cavanaugh at all Masses today. All we could do. Best we could do. Will attend funeral. Msgr. John T. O'Connell. Toledo, Ohio. 
My deep sympathy to you and faculty on the loss of Father Cav­anaugh. Dr. Deno O'Connor. 
You have my heartfelt sympathy in the death of Father Ckvanaugh. He was a real friend to me and I shall always cherish the fondest memories of his great achievements, his fine personality, his sterling character and the happy days we spent together at Notre Dame. 
Ambrose O'Connell. 

May, 1935 The 't^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
We have heard with sincere resret that Father Cavanaugh died March 22. AVe regarded him as a strong and able man entirely devoted to any cause he espoused, unselfish in his activity, true and warm in his friendship, patriotic in hts enthusiasm and a firm friend of labor. 
Stanton A. Sweeney. 
Representative, A. F. L. 
Please accept our sincere sympathy in your great loss in the death of Reverend Father Cavanaugh. May his dear soul rest in peace. Dr. and Mrs. James E. O'TooIe. 
We grieve with you on the passing out before us of our beloved friend, that great priest of the Church, Father John Cavanaugh. James O'Shaughnessy and family. 
Deeply grieved to learn of death of Father Cavanaugh. The Church, the University and the community of South Bend have suffered a great loss in his passing. I extend my heartfelt condolences. 
Congressman Samuel B. Pettingill. 
All Catholic higher education mourns with Notre Dame at loss of its President Ehieritus. Father Cavanaugh. Rev. A. H. Poelker. S.J.. president. University of Detroit. 
Just read in South Bend paper of Father Cavanaugh's funeral. Accept my deepest sympathy though I knew him but casually. He was a very close friend of Clovis and my father. His loss to Holy Cross and Notre Dame is heaven's gain. Gerard J. Smith. 
Accept sincere sympathy in the passing of Father Cavanaugh. Harry Stuhldreher. 
Accept my most sincere sj-mpathy at the passing of a great Notre Dame man. the Very Rev. John Cavanaugh. C.S.C. Sister Mary St. Martin, , Waterloo. Iowa. 
The Sisters who have been proud and honored in Doctor Cavan­augh's affectionate tribute to them as his boyhood teachers share in the loss to Notre Dame of he gentle, magnetic personality of a great priest and scholar. The prayers, the sympathy and deep regret of the Sisters of St. Joseph. Cleveland. 
Words cannot express the shock and grief I feel over the loss of Father Cavanaugh. During my seven years at Notre Dame under his presidency I learned to revere and admire him as one of Ameri::a*3 foremost educators. Will be at funeral. T. J. Shaughnessy. 
Grieved at news of Father Cavanaugh's death. Sincere sj-mpathy. Had hoped to attend funeral but engagement here prevents even that testimony of esteem and respect. Rev. W. A, S?ullen. 
Shocked and distressed at news here of the death of Father Cava­naugh. my beloved friend. Notre Dame has lost a shining example of sterling Catholicity and rugged Americanism by his departure to the heavenly reward he so richly deser\'es. God rest his genial, peaceful soul. My intense sympathy to you and his reverend brethren and the men of Notre Dame. Joseph Scott. 
I grieve with Notre Dame in the death of Father Cavanaugh. my uood and valued friend for nearly 40 years. As I knew him intimately and well it follows naturally that I admired and loved him. He was a great churchman and a splendid, useful patriotic citizen of the republic Judge Kickham Scanlan. 
Notre Dame men in Chicago deeply regret the passing of Father Cavanaugh. We are arranging for a Mass at a later time which will be attended by our Alumni here. J. W. Scallan. president 
Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
This is such a great shock to us all. Deepest sympathy in the great loss of our beloved Father Cavanaugh. 
W. R. Ryan, president. Notre Dame Club of CTeveland. 
We cannot express our grief at the loss of Father Cavanangh. He was a warm personal and family friend and we will surely miss him. It will seem strange to return to the campus and find him gone but his memory and influence will remain with us always. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Rolwing. 
May 1 extend sincere condolences of myself and University of death of Father Cavanaugh. He was in all things an honor to Notre Dame. Due to speaking engagement at Georgetown it will be impossible to attend funeral. Please ask Father Aloore to represent this University. 
Most Rev. James H. Ryan, 
Rector, Catholic University. 
We have lost our best friend, one who knew every one of as; one to whom we never hesitated to go to at uiy time. To you and MD tbc Community I extend my deepest sympathy. Rudolph Price. 
Until the last minute I hade hoped it would be possiUe for me in person to pay my last respects to Father Cavanaugh whom I had tlie I)leasure of meeting several times and whose great work in and for the University, as well as outside the University, for the advancement of education and the public good. I always greatly admired. His life has been a full and most noble one and the state and university have lost an inspiring influence. Both will greatly miss him. 
Peter C. Reilly. 

Sincere condolences from myself and entire family. Rev. B. J. Rodman, SJ., President, John Carroll University.­
My heartfelt sympathy to you and your Community. You have lost an honored member and the Church a valiant defender of Christian etlucation. Most Rev. Henry P. Rohlman. 
Davenport, Iowa. 

I desire to join with the citizens of Indiana and the nation in expressing my deep sense of k>ss in the death of President Kneritus Cavanaugh. I regret that the pressure of oflScial duties prevents my being present at the funeral. The services of Father Cavanaugh in the cause of education and enlightenment never will be forgotten by those who are acquainted with them. Senator Fred Van Nuys. 
Shall attend funeral si^rvices for President Emeritus Cavanaugh, Tuesday morning. Rev. Samuel, K. Wilson. S.J., President. Loyola U., Chicago. 
Deepest sympathy in our great loss. Phillip Armstrong. 
Just read of Father Cavanaugh's death. Extremely sorry cannot attend funeral. We have been here since January. Did not know he was critically ill. Nobody can fill the place he held in our lives. Mary and his little gotlson. John, join with he in sj-mpathy to family and schc«)l. Frank Wallace. 
I :un deeply grieved to learn of the passing of dear Father John Cavanaugh. I have always felt that with his coming not only a newer" and finer spirit came to Notre Dame but Notre Dame came to receive its just recognition as a great University. His scintillating mind and great charm won the respect and genuine affecton of all who came in J contact with him. "We shall all miss him greatly.' If at all possible I^ shall be in attendance at his requiem Mass. 
Frank C. Walker. 

I condole with Notre Dame in the death of my good friend Father Cavanaugh. Slost. Rev. Charles D. White, Bishop of Spokane. Wash. 
To yourself and associates I send my deepest sympathy in the death of Father Cavanaugh. I have lost one of my closest friends and know the sorrow and feeling of loss all of you and a host of people all over the country are experiencing today. Walter Weed. 
With profound sorrow have just learned of the death of Father Cavanaugh. He was one of the biggest men I ever knew and along with his multitude of friends I join in deepest sympathy for you the Catholic fraternity and great University to which he gave his life. 
Leland Stanford Wood. 

I am deeply grieved and I want you to know that I am thinking of you during this great sorrow. Watts Eicher. 
I share with you Notre Dame's loss and heaven's gain in the death of Father Cavanaugh. Rev. Frank Coyle. 
I extend my sincerest sympathy to Notre Dame on Father Cav­anaugh's passing. . Ruth Faulkner. 
Thought I could get to funeral. Impossible. My sympathy to the Community in the great loss of Father Cavananugh. Rev. James H. Frawley, Reese. Michigan. 
Our condolence and sympathy in yours and our great loss the much loved Rev. Father John Cavanaugh who has helped and inspired thoo. sands of boys and men. James P. Harding. 
Regret very much to read in the press about the illness of that grand old priest. Will you please convey to him our sympathy and lay that our pastor will say a Mass for him tomorrow. 
Frederick Odena. 

Letters 

There is a bit of personal historj- in regard to Fatther CavanauKh that should not escape the notice of those who attempt to describe his magnificent priestly career. 
In Au;rust, 1918, I was in charge of the Knights of Columbus activ­ities at Fort Sheridan in Illinois. There the jrovemment assembled about 600 colIeKe presidents and deans from all over the countrj- and formulated plans for the SA.T.C. Father Cavanaush was amonc those present. A sravc crisis arose durinc the deliberations. \VhiIc the col­loffc presidents seemed wiHinK to have their dormitories transformcii into barracks and to offer the Rovomment any assistance possible, a few envisioned themselves with cold braid on their sleeves and seemed to be slishtly jealous of the prestige jriven army officers. A suEBestion was made which would wreck the whole jrovemmental projrram to the effect that university professors teaching in the S.A.T.C. should be commis­sioned. This ridiculous sutrRcstion was sponpsred by the presidents of a half-dozen of the stroncer COIICKCS. 
Colonel Reeves of the War Department presided at the jiatherinK. It seemed that the purpose of the whole meetinc was to be frustratcil hy the selfishness of a few men when Father Cavanaujrh took it upon himself to speak. There had been several hours of discussion pro and con. When Father Cavanaujrh arose, he commanded the attention of all. "Gentlemen." he said to the college presidents, "that uniform" (and he pointed to the uniform of Colonel Reeves) "is* an emblem. It is an emblem of the suffering, hardship, and sacrifice the Iwys are enduring in the trenches today. It seems to me that our professors should not only think but feel that they are doinjr their duty when, obeying the command of our government, they give instruction to thememb?rs of the S.A.T.C." Then Father Cavanaugh launched into the finest patriotic talk that I have over heard. For fifteen minutes he held the audience spellbound. When he finished. Colonel Reeves remarked. "Gentlemen, you now see why the government cannot respond to the proposition that has been here made to us. I think this concludes the ques-tion.** 
Notre Dame is so big that it can not be called, as an institution is sometimes defined, "the extension of a personality." But among the fvreat personalities that have invested it with a distinctive, religious, and American character, an outsider like myself would judge that Father Cavanaugh*s name must ever rank among the foremost. 
I assure you that hi; is receiving a generous remembrance in the Masses and prayers of nur student body as there are many here, profef;­sors and students, who knew him intimately. 
Rev. Maurice S. Shcehy, assistant to Bishop Ryan. 
Rector of Catholic University. 
. We learned of the «U-ath of Rev. Father Cavanaugh with deep regret- Another great leader is gone leaving behind a world made bet­ter by his sacrifices and unselfishness, .\lthough Notre Dame has been called upon to give up many of her great leaders lately, we are praying that God may compensate her by sending others to cjirrj* on the great work being done there. 
You have the prayers and sympathy of our sisters in the loss you have sustained in the death of gcod Father Cavanaugh. I remain, in Mar>-*s Immaculate Heart. Mother M. Ruth. I.H.M. 
St. Mary College and Academy. 
Monroe. Michigan. 
On behalf of the city ailministration and the peopk* of the city of Mishawaka. I desire to express our hoartfeld sympathy over the loss of that great and good man. Reverend Dr. .John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, 
The loss of his benign anil intellectual infiuence is keenly felt by all who were privilege<I to come in contact with him. Edward C, Went. Mayor. Mishawaka. Indiana 
With Father Cavanaugh's going one of Notre Dame's most radiant personaliUes passed on to his eternal reward. Forty years aga, when I was just a youth in Notre Dame's halls. Father Cavanaugh was radiating spiritual and intellectual brightness to the farthest comers of our campus; his ver>* spirit seemed to .surround his j)hysical being with a brightness that was so much a part of him that one simply accepted it and was glad. That radianee even then was reaching far beyond the confines of the campus, and I now know that il has been felt to the far comers of our country. 
Here in Washington it has been my happine±>^ to meet Father Cavanau;;h several times in recent years, to hear him talk, to meet again that old-time brightness of soul and mind that contributes such joyous- memories of my youth to present-day life, and ,to^again'fed the warmth of his radiant spirit, grown warmer and more comforting with the years. 
May I propose a tribute to Father Cavanaugh in the form of a 
spiritual bouquet? On this Easter Sunday morning let all Notre Dame 
men offer their Holy Communions for his eternal happiness. 
Hugh C. Mitchell, '9o. 
Washington, D. C 

In this time of afllicUnn over the death of the good and great Fathi-r Cavanaugh please accept from The Tribune and from myself our most sincere sympathy. It seems unnecessary to attempt to pay a tribute to him for words are insufficient to do justice. The only con­solation comes from assurance that he is happy with his Creator and that if we can follow his goodness we surely will receive the same dpsirable reward. F. A. Miller, president and editor. 
South Bend Tribune 

The news of Father Cavanaugh's death was a distinct shock to me. I sincerely sj-mpathize with you and the Community in your loss. 
To me. Father Cavanaugh was always a kind friend, and hence his dwith is to me in a way a personal loss. 
His magnificent work at Notre Dame will be a lasting monument to him. and so even though ho is dead, he will live on in his work for Jong yeai-s to come. 
I am sure he has but gone to receive the reward, which the Master has in store for his faithful priests for am.ong such we must certainly place Father Cavanaugh. 
I regret that it is impossible for me to attend his funeral, but I shall remember him here in prayer and at the altar tomorrow moming. Rfost Rev. Alphonse .1. Smith. Bishop of Nashville. 
It was with great sorrow that I learnwl of Father Cavanaugh's di-ath. 
Father Cavanaugh was one of the great men of Notre Dame. He as much as anybjdy I know of inspired love for Notre Dame ideals-. His broad humanity, his magnanimity, his cultural attainment and. above all, his charity and good fellowship left their very definite impression on Notre Dame and gained for it many friends it now has amongst the leading men of all creeds and stations in life. I never knew of anyone whose attainments were more highly respected and at the same time loved for his friendliness and charity. 
I regret excecilingly that it will be impossible for me to attend his funeral, but I assure you he will have the benefit of my prayers and itlways a wai-m spot in my niomor>-. John P. Murphy. 
Cleveland. 

The Notre Dame Club of Green Bay extend to you and the Uni­versity our heartfelt sj-mpathyk in the loss of our beloved Father Cav­anaugh. 
To all of us he shall ever remain in our minds as an educator, writer and brilliant speaker, but mostly as a priest and tmo friend of ever>- Notre Dame man. May his soul rest in peace. 
Harold L, Londo. '24, president, 
Notre Dame Club of Green Bay. 

I have tearnetl with very deep regret of the death of Father .John Cavanaugh, whom I became well acquainted with when at Notre Dame. He possessed many natural and acquired abilities and because of his fine Christian priestly character, he won the affection and attachment of the men of my time. Subsequently as head of the University of Notre Dame, he attained a place of leadership that commanded the respect and the homage of the educators of our country. Because of Father Cavanaugh's ability and his love for the University and the whole-heartetl cooperation he received from the Fathers and Brothers of the Holy CW)ss, he was enabled to greatly widen the influence of Notre Dame and laid the foundation for its present great eminence. 
I feel greatly indebted to Father Cavanaugh as a teacher. I have admired him as a preacher, speaker and writer. It is my humble opin­ion that few men of his-timQ have done more for the cause of Cath­olicity, Catholic education and good citizenship than Father Cavanaush. 
I recall having had the privileire of being present in Sacred Heart Church when Father Cavanaugh and you (Father Bums) were ordained to the holy priesthood in 1894. I sympathize with you and the mem­bers of the Order of the Holy Cross in the great loss you have SUR­tained. 
I regret exceedingly that professional engagements prevent my coming to Father Cavanaugh's funeral. I send you and through you to Father Cavanaugh's relatives and the members of your order, my heartfelt sj-mpathy. I humbly pray that our Heavenly Fatther "Who docth all things aright to comfort and to console Father Cavanaugh's relatives, his fellow members of the Order of the Holy Cross in their and your sorrow, and reward with heavenly life the soul of your associate and my dear friend. 
.Tames F. Kennedy. 
Mamrc Lodge of B'Nai B'Rith desires to convey its deepest sym­pathy and condolence on the passing of its beloved friend. Reverend Dr. John Cavanaugh. C,S.C. 
The Jewish i)eopIe of this community feel keenly the loss of his kindly sympathy, his fellowship and tolerance, his real catholicity and his good will toward all men. 
He was truly a priest am-sn^ all peoples and his noble influence will be appreciated for many generations to come. 
- "^"^ Irving A. Hurwich, president. South Bend. Indiana 
Everyone in Washington was deeply grieved to hear of Father Cavanaugh's death and it was a particularly personal loss to me as I am sure it is to you. 
Please assure the members of the Community that we join with them in their sorrow. Jim D. Hayes. Washington, D.C. 
Please accept my sincere condolence on the death of former Presi­dent Cavanaugh. I shnll remember him in my Mass Monday morning. 
In every way he was outstanding and helped the cause of the Cath-j olio Church in other days when we had fewer leaders than we have today. He gave Notre Dame University direction and the University has profited by th:it direction ever since. Because of his contribution the Catholic Church in the Middle West is much indebted to Notre Dame University. 
Most Rev. James A. Griffin. Bishop of Springfield in Illinois. 
The sad news of the death of Father Cavanaugh iust reachetl me. and I want to express to you and alt out there my sorrow and deepest sympathy. 
Father Cavanaugh was so much a part of Notre Dame to me— especially of those years when you and I were students there—that his passing away leaves a void that can never bo filled. He seemed in good health the last time I saw him and I though he would be with us for many years to come. 
Eloquent speaker, brilliant scholar and charming diplomat, he will never be forgotten : but to us whose good fortune it was to know him intimately, and to have felt the warmth of his friendship, his death brings ns keen n pang of sorrow as the passing of a beloved one in the family Simeon T. Flanagan, 
New York City. 
It was with much of a shock and inexpressible regret that I learned of the death of Father John Cavanaugh. To one like me who had come to Notre Dame as a freshman Carrollite in those idyllic days before the World War, and had grown up under the benign influence of that great character, his passing is the breaking of a link to that older era which is so precious to those who knew it. I'had the honor to be senior presi­dent in the last year of his administration, so that we trx>k our ofltcial farewells from the same platform at the sjime time. But it is not as the executive that he will be remembered, but :is the friend, who could be gracious without condescension to the merest knickere<l Carrollite. and in those leisurely strolls about the campus, could irradiate, by sheer force of personality, unspoken lessons which helpc<l to mould even the most thoughtless. 
I am glad that only Ia.st December I sent him a little pamphlet of a speech I had given, which he termed "your little collection of dreams and memories." assuring him that whatever was goo<l in it I -felt I oK-ed in large part to his influence. In reply he wrote these words which seem at once so prophetic and characteristic: 
. "It is so long since we have had a real chat that I hope it will not be much delayed. I don't know how many years may be left to me or whether only a few months. I am getting into that uncertain period when the wise thing to do ts to be ready and listening for the CJIII without being unhappy about it." 
You. yourself, from those days when you were "Prof." O'Hara. will raise fecollections which will cause you to agree that for the boys and men of the pre-war and war days. Father Cavanaugh was the living embodiment of all that was loveliest and finest in Notre Dame, Just as Santa Claus is the personification of Christmas in the eyes of children, in the remembrance of those "Lifers" of other days. Father Cavanaugh will remain the spirit of Notre Dame, cultured, genial. sympathetic, understanding, manly and spiritually inspiring. He has passed on. but there will live in all who sat at bis knee, some little spart of the nobility which overflowed his great soul. May God give it eternal rest. George D, Haller, '19 
I have learned with sorrow of the death of Father Cavanaugh and wish to extend my sincere sympathy to his confreres at Notre Dame. .\ priest among thousands. Father Cavanaugh leaves to all who had the privilege of knowing him a cherished memory. I regard as a treasured hour the timz spent with him on the occasion of my visit to Notre Dame in June of last year. You may be sure that he will be remem­bered in my Sfasses and in the prayers of my Congregation. May God grant rest and peace to the heart which throbbed with love for Notre Dame. ^lost Rev. John M. McNamara. 
Auxiliary Bishop of Balitimore. 

A matter of supreme importance came up here at that time that word of Father Cavanaugh's death came up to me. I have had him in my prayers. I knew him well and will continue to give him remem­brance that the full joy of heaven may be his. 
I wish to extend to you personally, and as president of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, my sincerest s>-mpathy on the passing away of one who for many years was its head. 
Rev. John J. Burke. C'.S.P., gen. secretary. National Catholic Welfare Conference. 
... . Through Brother Alexander. Father Cavanaugh became and always remainetl a staunch friend of our family. He did some very nice things for me personally which I will always remember. 
At the time of your Diamond Jubilee I spent several days on the campus. It was then Father Cavnnaugh was passing through the most brilliant period of his career. I had the joy of seeing him in action. Brother Alexander was then active as was Father Maloney and many priests and brothers who have passed on and I am sure are now enjoy­ing the reward of their holy lives. 
What a splendid lot of men they were and what a glorious celebra­tion they did put over. 
Your Bulletin was a beautiful tribute to Father. Words could not explain what Notre Dame meant to him and certainly no one could ade<iuately convey the great appreciation and gratitude Notre Dame and its numberless friends had for him. May his soul rest In peace. 
Joseph C. Smith, 

I am writing to you in the hope that you will give my message to Father Burns or anyone else who may remember me so that they may know how much I am upset over the sad news about Father Cavanaugh and how much I regret being unable to attend the services bacause I am leaving for Bermuda in a few days. 
Father Cavanaugh was my oldest and dearest friend at Notre Diune. I knew him before his ordination and used to visit with him in vacation time long ago. In recent years I have not seen him, although we kept up an occasional exchange of letters. I cannot realize that this genial soul has gone away forever, and that I can show jny friend­ship now only by my prayers. It is strange that he and Brother Leo-liold—another old friend—should have been taken in the same month. 
With sympathy to all those who will miss dear Father John, I am 
J. V. Sullivan, '97. 

I wish to express to you and the members of your faculty my long time affection for Father Cavnnaugh and my great sorrow in his pass* ing to his heavenly reward, I have had many contacts in years past and his friendly approaches were always most cheering and hdpful. In his life we have a beautiful example of Christian charity and tol­erance. May the spirit of Father Cavanaugh abide in all the hearts of the men of Notre Dame and elsewhere./ I beg to remain. 
Dr. William Chalmers Covert, moderator, Presbyterian Church in the United States. 
The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus May, 1935 
It is with the deepest sorrow and rcjiret I learned of the death of my. dear Rood friend. Father John Cavanauprh. Nearly 20 years aRO he invited me to Notre Dame Universltj-. He was president at that time. I accepted the invitation and there and then we became fast friends. 
In his pnssinff I lose a Kood friend and your institution one of its most brilliant leaders. 
As an humble layman I would like to attend his funeral tomorrow. March 26. but cannat do so for the reason I have to leave here that day to appear in a case in court in Newark. N.J.. in which our organ­ization is involved. However, you have my s>-mpathy in the passing of our mutual friend. Frank Duffy, general secretary.. 
United BrotherhoDd Carpenters and Joiners. 
Just Kot back from a trip out of town and find your telejrram awaitins me. The news, of course, was a shock to me, thoush not unexpected. Father John's Rreat soul has pone home. A jrrand priest he was.* and a darliuK friend and companion! Perpetual Hcht, I am sure will shine upon him. 
Will you convey to his relatives and to all in your Community our warm sympathy and the assurance of your prayers? Thank you! Tom Daly Germantown. Pa. 
His Excelleno*. the Most Reverend Bishop, requests me to ac­knowlcdpe the receipt of your tvlepram informinp him of the death of your beloved Father CavanauKh. He wishes me to extend to the mem­bers of your Community his heartfelt condolences. He recrets that he will be unable to attend the obseiiuies. 
Kev. Robert W. BORK. vice-chancellor, Dioct'Se of Grand Rapids. 
It was with heartfelt .sorrow and regret that I read in this morn-inp's papers of the dezith of my vcrj*. verj- dear friend. Father Cavan­auKh. I wish to extend to you and to the other members of the Order my most sincere sj-mpathy. Father Cavanaush had scr\'ed the Com­munitj- louK. faithfully, and brilliantly, and I know he -will be sorely missed and mourned by you all. 
When I was a .student there in the early ninetites you and Father CavanauKh were prefects in Sarin Hall. Father Cavanaush, Father Mike Quinlan. Father Mike Crowley and myself used to play cards dur­ing the winter evening "rec" hours. I learnjMl at that time to know him and to love him very much, and I have taken a prcat pride in his brilliant career since then. 
I had the pleasure of renewinjr our friendship at the installation of Bishop iMnnisan, and I found him the same wholesome, brilliant Father Cavanaush I had known at Notre Dame. I feel a preat personal loss in his death, and I assure you that I and also my family will offer sincere prayers for the repose of his soul. Maj* he rest in peace. 
Earl W. Brown, '9X 
May I express to yau and throuph you to your Community and to the University my sj-mpathy for the loss that is yours in the death of Father CavanauKh? We who }\nxe been privilesed to be at Notre Dame and to kn3W Father have happy memories of his friendliness and his fatherliness. Yet we think with joy of the closer link that each of the irreat souls who KO from Notre Dame cements with heaven. There is a loss but what a pain. Sister M. Asnes Alma.O.P. 
I am ureatly Krievenl to learn through the press of the death of Father CavanauKh who filled for so many yeai-s so larpe a part in the f^ucational and literarj- life of Notie Dame. 
His lonp reipn as president marks an achievement and procress in the academic work of Notre Dame which will truly bear fruit throuKh the comins years. 
May I offer you and the Faculty my deepest s>Tnpathy in your bereavement. Thomas O'HaKan. 
To the president and faculty of Notre Dame University I desire to express my sincere sj-mpathy in the Kreat loss you have sustained. 
Glory, honor and respect to the memorj- of Father CavanauKh! Dr. Wilhelm Middleschultc, LI*.D. 
I have ju.st m w teamed of the passiuK of my KOIXI friend and counsellor. Father Cavanaujih. I say "my Rood friend" because I believe it, but I know miKhtj- well that I was his friend and admirer. 
Perhaps—or rather—you know that I was professor of Military Science and Tactics at Notre Dame for nearly seven years, 1910 to 1917. , Just before we entered the World War I was relieved from duty at 
Notre Dame and assiKncd to other duties. Several times Father Cav­anauKh was our Kuest at simple little dinners in our simple little home. 
I have heard him at the banquet board and I sat n'ear him at dinner N.D. mess hall for nearly seven full academic years. For wit and humor he was without a peer. Were it not for this sad news could lauKh heartily at his rich and racy stories, many of which I have retold countless times, but without his effect. 
-. Bless his memorj*. 

I knew so many at N.D. I cannot name them in all fairness, but I do want to name Father Matthew Walsh-rl think my next best friend. Anyhow. I was happy there. 
Col. Ralph R. StoKsdall. U.S.A.. Ret, Fort Mason. San Francisco. Calif. 

Jubt a note to express my heartfelt s>-mpathy to you and to Notre Dame for the recent passinK of two Kreat men. I think Father Cav­anauKh was one of the most loved men in the countrj-. Like Rockne his friendship was always soupht and as a relisJous instructor ho had few equals. We all rcRret the passins of our former preidcnt and pal. especially those of us who have been away for a while. 
Tom Lieb, '23. athletic director, 
Loyola University, Ixts AnKeles. 

I want to express my sj-mpathy to you and the University for the loss of Father Cavanaueh. 
It is a mutual loss for I valued his friendship as one of the Koo<i thiuKS life has brouKht me. 
With cver>- pood wish for Notre Dame. I am Mary V. Merrick 
I Jl was with the deepest repret that I learned of Father Cavan­^ auKh*s death. His influence was so beneficent and reached into so many , corners of this little world that he will be much missed. Paul Hoffman, president. Studcbakcr Corporation 
I was so sorrj- to read of the death of Father CavanauKh. who was president in the old days when you (Father O'Hara) were trj'intr to teach me Spanish on Wednesday afternoons, if my memory is correct. His was a very vivid and strons personality. I am sure he left a ver>­deep impression on all the students who .were fortunate enouKh to be in the University under his presidency. I shall always remember the inspiration of his sermons in the chapel and his kindly and courteous treatment. It is in these respects that I remember him best, as at that time I did not realize the tremendous spiritual and administrative responsibility of the president of a larKe Universitj-. 
ChaHes B. Fahy. *10. 

I was Kreatly shocked to learn of Father CavanauKh's death, hist niKht. While I knew he was not well. I understood he had reoDvered sufficiently to return from the hospital. 
One by one our picturestpic landmarks are disappeariuK and we should all be seriously concemetl about the loss in man-power at Notre Dame. 
My recollections cf Father Cavanaugh, as a student, and later a Kood friend, are most happy ones. They could not be otherwise for any old student of Notre Dame. who. if he did not come in contact with this Kreat personality, loved him for the tradition that CIUUK to him like an aroma. He was the man who started Notre Dame to world-wide recoKnition. I cannot express my real feelinK at his passing on. 
John H. Nceson. *0:i. 

I want to express to j-ou and to the priests and faculty at Notre Dame my sincere sorrow that we have all lost, in the passing of Father Cavanauph, a preat friend and a splendid character. 
I To those of us who were at Notre Dame durinir the heipht of 
Father Cavanauph's career, it comes as a Rreat personal loss because to mc he was one of the Kreat links that helped to bind us closer to the Notre Dame we knew some 20 years aKo. I remember so well how beloved he was by all who knew him and especially by the students who were in his charRC. I remember the Kreat welcome we ffave him in the Spring of 1913 when he returned from his trip to Europe, and S3 many other occasions when his maKnificcnt presence and brilliant words inspired us all to endeavor to be worthy of the traditions of Notre Dame. 
To leave this life is always rcRarded with awe and fear, but to leave behind, as Father Cavanaush has. an immortal monument in the hearts of men, to leave behind a record of accomplishment of inspira­tion, should be to the faculty of Notre Dame and those close to Father CavanauKh a mlKhty mitiRation of the sorrow caused by his leaving. 
Will you please f»nvcy my expression of sympathy to all at Notre Dame. Raymond J. Kelly, *13. 
May, 1935 The '^otre 'Dame cAlumntis _235 / 
A Calendar of Father Cavanaugh's Speeches 
A calendar of the more important speeches of Father Cavanaugh. (This list is manifestly not complete. Other dates and occasions would be welcomely received.) 
/September, 1905. "The Function of the Religious College; 
K

—Sermon at the opening of the college year. 1906, Address to the State Teachers Association of In­diana. /i906. May 3. Address at the unveiling of the Sorin mon-^ ument. ^906, September 23. "The Conquest of Life"—Sermon; at the opening of the year. 1907, May 18. Address at the Boston Notre Dame Alum­ni banquet. A907, September 22. "Education and Character"—Ser­mon at the opening of the year. 
•1907, October 15. Memorial sermon at St. Mary's, Notre 
Dame. 1908, January 11. Address at the reception of William 
A. Ketchum, Notre Dame. 1908, March 2. Address at Dowagiac, Michigan. 1908, March 6. Lecture "The White Shepherd of Chris­
tendom." Rensselaer, Indiana. 1908, April 8. Lecture before the Newman Society, Uni­versity of Iowa'. 1908, May 25. Address at the laying of the cornerstone of the hospital at Logansport, Indiana. ;'1908, September 20. "Day of Visitation." Sermon at opening of the Notre Dame scholastic year. '-^ 
1908, November 1. Address on "Catholic Ideals in Edu­cation." St. Mai-y's Cathedral, Portland, Oregon. 1908, November 20. Dedicatorj' sermon at the blessing 
of the Stafford Memorial pulpit, Washington, D. C. » 1909, February 12. Address to the Metropolitan Club of Chicago: "Mysteiy of Lincoln." '^ /1909, September 26. "Perfect Sei-vice." Sermon at open­ing of the Notre Dame scholastic year. '' 1909, October 6. Eulogj' at the funeral of Rev. John A. Bleckman, Michigan City, Indiana. vi910, January 25, Feast of St. Paul. "Witnesses to Christ." Catholic University of America, Washington, ^ 
D. C. 1910, March 15. Address to the Knights of Columbus of Dayton, Ohio. 1910, April 10. Sermon preached in Mexico City. 1910, April 23. Address before the Notre Dame club of Chicago. 1911, January 13. Cardinal's day Sermon St. Patrick's Church, Washington, D. C. /^ liU h ^.'~X-'\-:-­1911, September. Address at the Eucharistic Congress, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1911, December 9. Address: "Indiana Home" before the Indiana Club of Chicago. ^ 
1912, February 22. Address to the Creve Coeur Club, Peoria, Illinois, i^ 
1912, March 17. -Address at the St. Patrick's Day cele­bration, Detroit, Michigan. 
1912, May 22. Address at the dedication of a monument to Father Badin, Loretto, Kentucky. 
/1912. "How May the College Influence Public Opinion." Address to the Catholic Educational Association. 
/1912, September 22. "Life and Duty." Sermon at the 
opening of the Notre Dame scholastic year. '^ 
^1913, September 21. "Religious Life of the Student." Sermon at the opening of the Notre Dame scholastic year. i/^ 
1914, February 7. Address before the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 1914, March 15. Speech on socialism for the Catholic Lecture Course at Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
1914, March 17. Address at Peru, Indiana. 
/i914, September 20. "Price of a Soul." Sermon at the opening of the Notre Dame scholastic year. '^ 
yi914, November 26. Sermon at the Pan-American Ser­
•nce in St. Patrick's Church, Washington, D. C. i / 
1915, February S. Address at the banquet of the Trans-i portation Club of Indianapolis. 
71915, February 22. "Our Flag." Washington Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. '-^ 
,<1915, May 26. "In Memoriam," Charles Plamondon, Marj- Mackin Plamondon: Sermon, funeral Mass, Chicago, Illinois. 
/1915, October 3. "Bearing the Yoke." Sermon at the opening of the year. 
1916, January. Sermon at Holy Name Cathedral, Chi­cago. 
1916, October 11. .\ddress to the Knife and Fork Club, South Bend, Indiana. ' ^ 
1916. Sermon at the funeral of Mother Gertrude of the Sisters of St. Joseph at Tipton, Indiana. 
•1917, February 14. Sermon at the funeral of Judge John Gibbons. 
/l917, September 23. "Sti'ong Man Armed." Sermon im the opening of the Notre Dame scholastic year. '^ 
1917, October 13. .\ddress to the drafted men. South Bend, Indiana, i/" 
1917, November 25. Address to the Zionist Society, South Bend, Indiana. ' 1918, February. -Address. "The Empty Throne." Mar­quette Club, Green Bay, Wisconsin^ ^\'\-'ii-'^. 
1918. "Efficiency in Education." ^'^^'^ ^-^ " *t '^•^^^•-^ 
Ct.--. ^ 

1918, February 22. Address to the Boys' Working Re­ser\'e Society, Fort Wayne, Indiana. 1918, February, .\ddress to the Michigan City, Indiana, Rotary Club. 
1918, March 14, Address at the meeting of the Academy 1922, Sermon at the formal opening of the new build­of Music, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. ing at Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1918, March 16. Address to the Friendly Sons of St. 1923, Speecli to the Boston Chember of Commerce. Patrick, New York. ' 
/1924, June 12. "The Cornerstone." Address at the laying 1918, March. Address in Providence, Rhode Island, v of the cornerstone of St. Mary's College building, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1918, June. Commencement address, St. Mary's College, Monroe, Michigan. /l925, "The Clash." Commencement address at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
1918, June 20. Commencement address at St. Xavier's College, Louisville, Kentuckj'. /1925, "Weekday Religious Instruction in the Public Schools from the Catholic Standpoint." An address 
1918, June 20. Commencement address at the Institute published in "Catholic School Interests". 
of the Immaculate Conception, Oldenburg, Indiana. 1927, "The Soul of the Church." Sermon at the instal­
7l919. Sermon. "Christ the Teacher." 
lation of Bishop George Finnigan, CS.C, as Bishop 1919. Sermon. "The Sister Nurses of the Ci\-il War." '^ 
of Helena, Montana.»/ 1919, March 1. Address: "The War and its Aftermath." 
/l927, "Behold the Dreamer Cometh." Commencement ad­Chamber of Commerce banquet, Los Angeles, Cali­
dress at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. fornia. , T 
li: • 1927, Address to the gi-aduates of the South Bend High yi920, June 30. "The Romance of Big Business." Address 
School. at the Studebaker Dinner, South Bend, June 26, 1920. 
Speeches for which the dates and other information 1920, "The Priest and the School." cannot be supplied at the present time. 
y^920, "St. Paul, Apostle of the World." "What Shall a Man Give in Exchange for his Soul." 
^1920, "The Priest and His Friends." ^"The Modesty of Culture." X Commencement address at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. /"^
yi921, "The Spiritual Contribution of Ireland to America." "Scouting as an Aid to Religion." 
yi921, "Tests of a College." 1921, March 25. Eulogj" at the funeral of Samuel T. -4.ddress to the Indiana State Convention of the Knights Mxirdock. of Columbus assembled at Father Gibault Home for Boys. 
1922, Address at the Diamond Jubilee of the Cleveland Diocese. \/ -Address to the Bar Association of Indiana. 
The Priest 

To FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, CS.C. 
I thought once, seeing thee walk beside the lake: 0 priest, thrice blessed in thy contentedness. Would I were happy as thou art; could make Homage betray not, wisdom newly bless Old piety's long-shrouded vale of tears. . . . 
]udging thy high bead and unbended eyes 
Innate acceptance of thy goodly years. 
Informed by honoring what youth denies. 
0 priest, I wronged thee. Thou too dost behold Death, 
Even as young men do. Only, sorrow dies 
In us, and we miss it .. . . whilst in thee it sailh 
Its say and departs not, but flame-like sanctifies 
The tissue of thy life, wbate'er ensues 
Thy daily witness to the Triumph of the 'jews. 
—^HARRY A . McGuiRE, '25 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMG3 E. ABMSTBONG, '25,  The magazine is published monthly dtirinf: the scholastic year by the Alnmnt Association  Member of the Ameriewi  
Editor  of the tJniverstty of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is 12.00  Alumni CooiiidL  
a year: the price of single copies is 2S cents. The annual alumm dues of S5-00 include  
WiLUAU R. DOOLET, *26,  a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1,  Member of Natl. Catholic  
1923, at the post office at Notre Dome. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All  
Attoeiate Editor  correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame. Ind.  Alumni Federation  

MAY, 1935 No. 8
VOL. Xin 
91st COMMENCEMENT LOOMS BIG FOR ALUMNI 
Program Offers Graduates Real Opportunity to Participate Actively in Entire Three-Day Observance; Augmented Features of Recent Years Promising. 
May 31, June 1 and 2—and if you can swing that Memorial Day holiday a little wide, you can make a big week-end of it from any distance. 
The Ninety-First Annual Com­mencement of the University of Notre Dame ought to be especially favorable for our alumni. 
For the past several years the Commencement has combined so many features and such looming personalities on the national horizon that the campus has been crowded with friends of the University, lack­ing, however, specific connection with the event. Parents of students, and the alumni, have been a substantial but neverthless fractional part of the proceedings. 
This year, nothing has been lost of the high quality of the Commence­ment personnel. But there is not the general public appeal. His Excel­lency, Bishop Spellman of Boston, commands the highest regard and wU without question rank with the leading preachers in his baccalaur­eate address. Shane Leslie, the Com­mencement orator, has won an en­viable reputation for distinctive style in his semester's lectures at the Uni­versity, and is veiy likely to be a memorable figure in the illustrious list of Commencement orators. 
The Alumni Golf Tournament, the Banquet, the Concerts, and the many standard events are always attractive. While the Commencements have been repeated for 91 years, there is always in each, the brilliance, the academic achievement, and the fresh, youthful enthusiasm of a new Class. 
The Monogram luncheon will be held as always. Two baseball games will be played, on Friday and Satur­day afternoons, against the two strong nines from Wisconsin and Michigan State. The Second Annual Notre Dame National Catholic Interscholas­the Track and Field Meet will be held, and the title tells the story. Many new high schools are being repre­sented this year. 
Alumni of the Classes before 1920 will live in spacious Alumni Hall, and '20 and later will be housed in Dillon, its next-door neighbor. 
Glee Club on Columbia 

Through WSBT, the South Bend Tribune's broadcasting station, the Notre Dame Glee club will give the Columbia broadcasting system a quarter-hour network feature on Friday, May 24. The program will originate in the campus radio stu­dios in the John F. Gushing Hall of Engineering. The club will go on the air at 
1:30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time. 

12:30 p.m. Central Daylight Time. 
11:30 a.m. Mount. Daylight Time. 
10:30 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time. 
(Standard time is, of course, one hour earlier in each instance.) The CBS network carried a half-

hour broadcast of Little Jack Lit­tle's orchestra fro m the Notre Dame Senior Ball on May 10, also through the South Bend Tribune facilities. Ned Eeglein, station an­nouncer, was instrumental in ar­ranging both programs. He also deserves and receives a large share of the credit for the regular Notre Dame programs which have been broadcast from the campus in the past few months. 
The Sixth Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs ^vill be held at 11 on Saturday morning. As many Clubs as possible are urged to have repre­sentatives at this meeting. The Club year has broken all records for achievement and this clearing house of ideas will be productive of great results this time. 
President John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, of the University, and President Tim­othy P. Galvin, of the Association, who are t;he speaking program for the Alumni Banquet ought to fill the aisles, not to mention the reputation Gene Connolly has established for his meals. 
Mass for Deceased alumni this year has :i tremendous incentive in the heavy losses the year has brought. It is hoped that attendance will im­prove accordingly. 
In any event—and for all of them —come as soon as you can and stay it through. 
The University is generously re­peating its free room and Alumni Banquet arrangements. 
New Feature 

The Alumni Office has proposed this year the institution of a two-hour "open house" during which time the faculty members will be, to the best of their ability, in their various departments. This will give alumni friends a chance to visit them vrith­out the feeling of intmsion on pri­vate time or the inconvenience of a campus search. It will also give alumni of some years back an op­portunity to see the many new build­ings and the new equipment in the departments. And it will give the graduating Class an opportanity to bring their parents to the depart­ments for similar purpose. The Of­fice believes that this custom will pro­mote contacts with maximum saving of time and embarrassment to both alumni and faculty. Hoars this year will be posted in the Halls. 
N. D. Men Aid K. C. 

The mobilization for Catholic Action-of the Knights of Columbus found many Notre Dame men active. On the Supreme Council of course are Leo P. Craig, Timothy P. Galvin, Ray 
T. Miller, Martin G. Carmody, LL.D., and Dr. Fahy, supreme physician whose two sons link him to Notre Dame. Ray Kelly, Detroit, was chair­man of the speakers bureau for the central Michigan area; Patrick E. Burke, New Orleans, was chairman of the publicity committee of the South-em area; Hon. Joseph Scott was chair­man of the Southern Calif., area; D. 
F. Kelly, LL.D., was chairinan of the greater Chicago area while Michael F. Girten was chairman of the speakers bureau in the same territory; P. C. Reilly, recently elected to the Board of Lay Trustees, was chairman of the Indiana area. 
FR. O'HARA RETURNS FROM TWO MONTHS'TRIP 
Trip Combined Vacation and Study of European Education, and Plans for Next Academic Year at Notre Dame; Chesterton to Return for Lectures; Heads Group. 
Alumni who know the presidential propensities for work, will recognize in the following report by Carl Zim­mer, '34, of Father O'Hara's "vaca­tion" in Europe, one of those typical O'Hara lulls in which more is accom­plished than in the average man's peak. 
His tour took the University head first to London, where he spent a week, making several trips to Oxford and Cambridge. Then he visited Brus­sels, Louvain and Paris. At LeMans, France, he spent several days at the birthplace of the Congregation of Holy Cross and renewed his acquaint­ance with Bishop Grante, who stopped at Notre Dame in 1926 on his way to the Eucharistic congress in Chicago. 
Archbishop Baudrillart, director of the Institute Catholique, and Clovis Bnmel, director of the Ecole des Chartres, entertained Father O'Hara in Paris. Following visits to Lisieux —^the shrine of the Little Flower— and Lourdes, Father O'Hara observed academic methods in the universities of Milan and Pavia. A representative of the latter institution, Francesco Tamagna, is at Notre Dame this se­mester under a student exchange plan. Some Notre Dame student is expected to be sent to Italy in September. 
Th e ar t galleries in Florence, "where the Italian government is concentrating its best men," were particularly interesting to Father O'Hara, who carried with him photo­graphs of pictures in the Wightman Memorial galleries here and made comparisons with other paintings by the same masters who executed Notre Dame's masterpieces. 
His Holiness, Pope Pius XI, re­ceived Father O'Hara in private au­dience for nearly a half-hour. 
"The Holy Pontiff seemed very in­terested in Notre Dame," Father O'Hara said. "I showed him some snapshots of the campus and he ap­peared enthusiastic about the build­ings, especially the library. He used to be a librarian, you know. He asked numerous questions about our courses in religion. The pope didn't say a word about football, although the question may have been in the back of his mind. 
"Mussolini has done marvels to­ward modernizing Italy and making it more self-supporting. He has, for instance, succeeded in draining the Pontine marshes — a project which Jlussolini has given this reclaimed land to the Italian war veterans. I saw wheat growing between rows of grapes almost within a stone's throw of the Mediterranean — a curious sight. I didn't get to see Mussolini— he, too, was busy that week. 
"The Italian federal government has taken a very definite interest in education and is selecting centers for certain departments and is concen­trating its best men there. A special effort is being made to make Florence the center of art work, for there is a wealth of art and art tradition there. 
While reluctant to comment on either political or economic conditions. Father O'Hara said: "I believe that Belgium is enjoying more prosperity than any other European nation. Ire­land, too, has shown a very decided improvement, along with Italy." 
In explaining the purpose of his tour, Father O'Hara said that before the war it had been customary for the University to send some repre­sentative to visit European institu­tions and scholars. "The war inter­fered with this practice, but I am anxious to renew it," he added. 
One of the tangible results of his trip is that six noted European fig­ures have agreed to come to Notre Dame for special lectures and courses during the next school year. They are Arnold Lund, Etienne Gilson, Jacques Maritain, Christopher HoUis, Gilbert Keith Chesterton and Desmond Fitz­gerald. 
"Mr. Lund will give two lectures at a yet undetermined date," Father O'Hara said. "Mr. Fitzgerald will ar­rive on Oct. 1 for a six weeks course. 
:S6^ 
Mr. Gilson, who is now in Brazil, will make a week's stay at Notre Dame. Mr. Hollis will arrive in September and remain here for a year. Mr. Chesterton set no time for his visit." 
On his return to New York city Father O'Hara accepted several bene­factions in the name of the Univer­sity. The first is for an economics fund and amounts to ?25,000. The use of it is unrestricted, but the anony­mous donor requested that it be used to further economic research along new lines to which the university has recently turned. Mr. Hollis is ex­pected to assist in formulating some of this special research work. The Julius A. Nieuwland fund for chem­istry has been begun by a gift of $10,000 from the Chemical foundation through its president, Francis P. Gar-van. 
The other announcement was of a scholarship fund instituted by the Notre Dame club of the New York metropolitan district. Amounting to $250 annually, this award ^vill go to some student from greater New York to be selected by a committee of alumni. 
Father O'Hara, who on Universal Notre Dame night during a nation­wide radio hookup disclosed that the university is considering the erection soon of a new students' infirmary, re­fused to comment further on the pro­ject, saying that "plans are very in­definite." He had nothing to say on the plans of Rev. Casimir Sztuczko, C.S.C., and Very Rev. James W. Don­ahue, superior-general of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, who accom­panied him to Europe to establish a house of the Congregation in Poland. 
was attempted unsuccessfully in pag­NEW YORK CLUB ROCKNE COMMUNION BBEAKFAST an times and again the middle ages. 150 Alumni also honor memori/ of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. and Joe Sullivan. 
REACH NEW HEIGHTS ON UNIVERSAL N.D. NIGHT 
National Radio Hook - Up, Local Station Programs, Important Announcements, Universal Club Meetings, National Interest All Exceed Any Previous Observance. 
The Alumni Association is pleased through this issue of the ALUMNUS to announce and to express appreciation for the greatest Universal Notre Dame Night in the history of the event, begun in 1924. 
First appreciation goes, selfishly perhaps, to the hundreds of alumni who, as Club officers or special con­tacts, gave diligent and brilliant ser­vice in the arrangements. 
To the Studebaker Corporation, for its time on the radio, is due unlim­ited appreciation, especially by those more distant clubs who seldom hear the voice of the University so directly 
To the Philco Radio and Television Corp., through that indefatigable alumnus, William A. A. Castellini, ap­preciation is extended for the cooper­ation of Philco distributors every­where in placing radio facilities at the disposal of Clubs, and the instal­lation in the University Dining Halls for the students. 
To the radio stations listed in the April ALUMNUS, who so generously cooperated in arranging local pro­grams, too much credit cannot be giv­en. Invaluable Notre Dame material was broadcast to widely scattered communities through these local sta­tions by both alumni and the station staffs. 
Reports are still coming in, but al­ready they have surpassed in both scope and intensity any previous Night. 
The coast-to-coast broadcast was made possible by the cooperation of the Studebaker corporation and Rich­ard Himber's orchestra. In addition Notre Dame night was celebrated by more than 75 alumni clubs in the United States and several foreign countries. One hundred fifty individ­ual stations saluted the University with music and historical sketches of the institution. Rome joined the cele­bration with a Notre Dame program over a short wave station, 2E0. COH, Havana, Cuba, and XEK and XEB, Me-vico, D.F., devoted portions of their schedule to commemorating the rise of the University. 
More than 7000 alumni paid hom­age to the University with meetings in all the principal cities in this coun­try as well as in Paris, Rome, Buenos -•Vires, Bengal, Shanghai and other cities. 
Father O'Hara, recently returned from six weeks in Europe, said to the radio audience: 
"To the thousands of alumni and old students who are listening in to­night, and to the myriads of friends and well-wishers who are with us in spirit, I extend the official greetings of the University of Notre Dame, and I communicate the blessing which the Holy Father, three weeks ago in Rome, commissioned me to impart. It has been a good year for Notre Dame. We have been saddened, it is true, as the long shadow of death has crossed the golden dome, falling on shining marks. Our faith sustains, however, when God in His wisdom increases the band of Notre Dame men in heaven. 

"O u r compensations have been many. You have read with pleasure of the new honors bestowed in recent months on Father Nieuwiand, whose researches led to the development of synthetic rubber. You will be glad to know that the Chemical Foundation, through its president, Francis P. Gar­vin, has contributed $10,000 to estab­lish at Notre Dame the Julius A, Nieuwiand fund for chemistry; you will also be pleased to hear that an anonymous benefactor has, during the past week, donated $2.5,000 for the study of economics. We are ready to begin the construction of a new stu­dents' infirmary, and the architects are hard at work on plans for the Rockne Memorial building. These are some of the many blessings for which we have to thank God this year." 
Speaking also from New York one of the school's most celebrated alum­ni, Frank C. Walker, '09, new direct­or of the National Emergency council, paid tribute to three Notre Dame fig­ures who died since the last Universal Night—Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, who was president of the uni­versity at the time of his death; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, past presi­dent and noted scholar, and Brother Leopold, C.S.C, who, in the words of Mr. Walker, "had served the institu­tion for 75 years. Each of these three men had his special gift." -A.long with Father O'Hara and Mr. Walker on the New York speaking program was Eddie Dowling, Broadway comedian, and one of the few honorary Notre Dame alumni. 
Elmer Layden, '25, speaking from the Merchandise Mart in Chicago, on the same broadcast, outlined the 1935 grid team's prospects and mentioned some of the possible first eleven ma­terial. After welcoming Fathe r O'Hara home, congratulating Mr. Walker on his new appointment, and thanking Will Rogers for attending 
the foootball banquet in January, Mr. 
Layden said: 
"As for this fall's prospects, Notre 

Dame has a great many suits, and we 
may be able to play some football. 
We have suffered great losses already 
and will lose 23 more men through 
graduation this June. Sullivan's death 
was a heavy blow. Bad weather has 
delayed practice. No captain has 
been appointed to take Sullivan's 
place but one \vill be named for each 
game. 
"We still have the literary element on the squad," he continued. "Bill Shakespeare will handle the drama." Then he named several dozen more who will probably be in "the cast." "All I hope is that the play will turn out to be 'The Taming of the Shrew' instead of just '.A. Midsummer Night's Dream'." 
The 45-voice University glee club, under the direction of Prof. Joseph J. Casasanta, '23, joined the national broadcast from Chicago with a med­ley of campus airs. 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice president of Notre Dame, was the guest speaker at a meeting of the Chicago Notre Dame alumni club in the Knickerbocker hotel, where 400 assembled for a memorial dinner. 
Fr. Kemper Active 

Fr. Henry Kemper, '05, who keeps the spirit of Notre Dame so vividly alive in his little institute in Kerrville, Texas, was moved to many remin­iscences with the bestowal of the Lae­tare Medal on Frank H. Spearman. Mr. Spearman was a companion on a voyage to Rome on which Fr. Kemp­er said his first public Mass. The column conducted by Fr. Kemper in the Kerrville Times also contains many mentions of Notre Dame and its events and people. 
Mothers' Day 

The annual observance of Mother's Day can hardly fail to include the annual tributes to the recognized founder of the Day, Frank E. Hering, '98, editor of The Eagles Magazine. Among the very interesting tributes this year is a letter to Mr. Hering from D. J. Lucey, San Francisco, grand secretary of the grand council of the Young Men's Institute, a Cath­olic group whose chapters dot the Pacific coast, expressing the apprecia­tion of the Institute for Mr. Hering's work in developing the Day, and out­lining the retreats and the other ob­servances of it by the Institute. 
240 The '![<(^otTe 'Dame cAlumnus May, 1935 
PRESENT NICHOLS MEDAL TO FR. NIEUWLAND 
Brilliant Ceremonies Mark Award of Coveted Medal to Notre Dame Scientist; American Chemical Society Meeting Focuses National Scientific Eye on University Work. 
Alumni who have known Father Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C, A.B., '99, ScD., '12, through his many years of brilliant teaching and research at No­tre Dame, are not surprised at the national spotlight which has suddenly found the rather grimy exterior of Chemistry Hall. (Some of them won­
der that Father Nieuwland's many compounds have not lifted the Hall off the campus long since.) 
"Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland, father of Duprene and lewisite, was the most eulogized scientist at last week's A.C.S. gathering. -A. special dinner was arranged to award him the William H. Nichols medal. The 

FATHER NIEUWIJVXD RECEIN'ES THE NICHOLS MEDAL 
Left to right. Dr. John M. ^Yeiss, Father Nieiin-Unid and Prof, .{rthnr Hixson. 
Laetare Medal Presentation 
Formal presentation of the Laetare Medal awarded by the University of Notre Dame to Frank H. Spearman, Hollywood author, will take place Sunday evening. May 26, in the Church of the Blessed Sacrament in Hollywood. 

Most Rev. John Joseph Cantwell, bishop of Monterey and Los Angeles, a great friend of Notre Dame, will preside and the Hon. Joseph Scott of Los Angeles, LL.D., '1.5, a recipient of the medal, will speak. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, ivill present the medal. 
The Laetare Medal, which has been awarded annually by the University of Notre Dame for the past 52 years, is recognized as the highest honor a Catholic layman can receive in the United States. The name of the re­cipient is announced on Laetare Sun­day, the fourth Sunday of Lent, and the presentation is made at a solemn service of the Catholic Church. 
Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady was the 1934 medalist. John McCormack w^as awarded the honor in 1933. 
Youth Leaders to Meet 

Notre Dame will enjoy many bene­fits as host to the National Confer­ence of Clergy Youth Leaders to be held on the campus July 8-12. 
Youth leaders among the clergy from every section of the country will gather for the conference, which will be held under the patronage of the Most Rev. John F. Noll, LL.D., '15, Bishop of Fort Wayne, and the Most Rev. Bernard J. Sheil, Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago. The Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, '16, director of the youth bureau of the National Catho­lic Welfare Conference, who is now directing the organization of CYO ac­tivities in St. Joseph county, Indiana, is directing the conference. 
-Among the topics to be treated at the conference are the following: the need of a balanced program of youth activities; the Church's interest and attitude; the nature, needs, interests, and abilities of youth on the different age levels; the use of existing agen­cies, and evaluation of their pro­grams; the problem of leadership and task of recounting his life and work was delegated not to one colleague but to three. . ." 
So spoke in part more than a col­umn article in Time. 
Dr. John M. Weiss, head of the Nichols award committee, presented the medal. Dr. Bridgewater, of Du­pont, outlined the great work of the eminent Notre Dame scientist, and Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, spoke on Father Nieuwland from the view­point of a fellow religious. Father Nieuwland's response to the presen­tation was a most interesting talk widely quoted in the press. 

Further attention was focussed on the work of Father Nieuwland in his Notre Dame laboratories some time ago by a letter to Senator David I. Walsh from Dean Frank C. Whitmore of Penn State. Dean Whitmore, ask­ing government subsidy of outstand­ing scientists, cited Father Nieuwland as an example of a great scientist whose work had been carried on un­der handicaps of assistance an d equipment which government subsidy would in large measure have elim­inated. 
The Notre Dame Club of New York was active in recognition of the honor bestowed on Father Nieuwland by the American Chemical Society and Wil­liam E. Cotter, '13, arranged a bril­liant luncheon in honor of Fr. Nieuw­land at the Union League Club. 
the financing of youth activities, and coordinating Catholic Youth activities in parish, deanery, and diocese. 
Graduate Scholarships 

The graduate curriculum in social work recently announced 15 special tuition scholarships for 1935-36, avail­able for college men with adequate background. Ten Boy Guidance schol­arships wil l be awarded by the Knights of Columbus, New Haven, Conn., limited to Catholics. Five scholarships will be awarded in social case work. The prerequisite for all scholarships is a degree, with at least 20 hours of undergraduate back­ground in the social sciences. 
Healy in Travel Service 

John F. Healy, '30, has joined the well known Hayes Travel Service in Chicago and is organizing a college tour to Europe. 5737 S. Kenwood Ave. will take care of your wanderlust. 
By DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 ATHLETIC PUBUCny 
ATHLETICS 
LATE SPORTS RESULTS 
Traeh 
Notre Dame 92^ ; Michigan State S8»4. 
BaschaU. 
Notre Dame. 7 ; Northwestern. 10. 
Notre Dame, 7 ; Western State. I. 
Tennis 
Notre Dame. 2 ; Chicago. 7. 
Notre Dame, 3 ; Michisan StJite. 5. 
Golf 
Notre Dame, 9V^ ; Northwestern, 11%. 

The predictions made in last month's ALUMNUS for the Notre Dame spring sports teams have heen justified with the season half over. Victory in two-thirds of the 24 con­tests held to date, assures Notre Dame of a better than .500 average for the season, if the rest of the season runs anywhere near true to form. GOLF 
The golfers are leading the field, as has been customary with them, 
•tt-ith a 1.000 average. Undefeated in seven matches, they have tied the Notre Dame single season winning record. They have run the three-year winning record to 20 straight. Notre Dame has not lost a golf match since 1932, and it was in 1932 that the team lost the only two matches dropped since golf was established at Notre Dame in 1930. 
Following is the record to date this year: 
Notre Dnme, 18 : St. Viiitor, 0. Notre Dame, 17>/4 ; Wayne U.. 'X;. Notre Dame, 14 : Detroit, -I. Notre D.ime, 15 : Detroit, 3. Notre Dame. liVl • CliicaKo, 1»4, Notre Dame, lO'y^ : Wisconsin, TVi-May 11—Northwestern at Evanston. May 14—Olin Dutra and Jimmy Thompiwn at 
Notre Dame in cxliibition match 

a}^inst Notre Dame foursome. May 17—Michigan State at E, Lansin.-;. May 25—Pittsbursh at Notre Ijame. May 31 and June 1—Indiana State meet at 
Notre Dame, 

As the score would indicate, the Wisconsin match was the closest call the Irish had. -A. tie with the Badgers was averted only when Bill Cole, 1933 Indiana collegiate champion, sank his chip shot from the deep trap at the left of the 18th green for a birdie, four to win three points from Holt of Wisconsin. Had Cole taken a par five on the hole, the match would have been a tie. 
Capt. Johnny Banks, Winfield Day, Jr., Pat Malloy of last year's team, and Harry Baldwin and Lou Fehlig, sophomores, have been playing fine golf consistently. Banks shot a 69 on the number four Olympia Fields course in Chicago, the scene of sev­eral large tournaments, and few of the top notch professionals have ever broken 70 on the wooded, hilly, well-trapped Olympia layout. 
• 

TENNIS After several losing seasons, the tennis team appears to be on the win­ning track under the direction of Prof. Pedro de Landero, who last winter turned out the best fencing team in the Middle West. The boys have won three of their four matches, losing a 7 to 0 engagement to North­western when forced by bad weather to play indoors. Capt. Frank Weldon has been a consistent winner this spring. Following is the record and the rest of the schedule: 
Notre Dame, 5 : Wabash. 2. Notre Dame, 6; Indiana, 3. Notre Dame, 0: Northwestern, 7. Notre Dame, G: Bradley, 3, May S—Chicaco at ChicaRO. May 11—^lichipan State at Notre Dame. May 15—Ohio State at Columbus. May 17—Illinois at Champaign. May 22—West. State Teachers at Notre Dame. May 24-25—Indiana State meet at Richmond. 
BASEBALL The discovery of several previously unknown pitchers has helped Coach Jake Kline's baseball team along the road to what promises to be another %vinning season. Starting season with Matt Themes the only monogram winning hurler on the staff, Kline has uncovered and developed enough sophomores and reserves fi'om last year to enable the Irish to win 7 of their first 11 games. Joe Beach, southpaw senior, an outfielder last year and a right halfback in football, has won his only two starts; Oscar Rydell, sophomore right bander, won his only start against Chicago; Bill Toumey, senior right hander, has won one game and lost two; and Jerry Van Wagner, sophomore right hander and football player, has done some fine relief pitching.' He started against Chicago in the return game at Notre Dame, but Themes relieved him in the ninth. Chicago tied the score with Themes in the box, and 
N.D. won in the last half of the ninth, so Themes gets credit for the victor}'. Themes now has three wins and two losses beside his name in the record book. 
George Wentworth, shortstop from Bucksport, Maine, is leading the club in hitting with an average of .477 for 10 games. Andy Pilney who has seen action in 11 games, is hitting .409. Frank Gaul and Jerry Van Wagner, catcher and pitcher, respec­tively, are batting well over the .300 mark. 
Following is the record to date and 

games remaining: Notre Dame, 4 ; Ohio State, 3 (10 inninKS). Notrti Dame, 5 : Purdue 9. Notre Dame. G: Western State, 5, Notre Dame, 12; Chicago, 6, 
Notre Dame, 1: Iowa, 11, Notre Dame. 5 : Iowa, 3, Notre Dame. 2 ; Illinois, 1. Notre Dame, S : Chicago, 7, Notre Dame, 4 : Michigan State, ."t. Notre Dame, 9; Ohio State, 10. Notre Dame, 5 : Toledo, 3. May 8—Northwestern at Notre Dame. May 11—Western State at Notre Dame. May 14—Wisconsin at Madison. May 15—Northwestern at Evanston. May 18—Purdue at Notre Dame. May 31—Wisconsin at N,D. (Commencement) June 1—Mich, State at N.D, (Commencement) 
• 

TRACK The track team, victorious over Purdue by a 91 to 29 score, lost to Ohio State's powerful team by the slender margin of 71 to 60 at Colum­bus recently. Several close races featured the meet. Three dual meets and two conference meets will com­plete one of the stiffest cards ever dra^^•n up for a Notre Dame team. The Irish meet Michigan State at East Lansing May 11, Pittsburgh at Notre Dame May 18, and Marquette at Notre Dame May 25. Then comes the Indiana State meet June 1 in which Indiana and Notre Dame should stage a real battle; and finally on June 7 the Central Intercollegiate Conference outdoor meet at Mil­waukee. George Meagher, stocky little broad jumper and hurdler, added another Notre Dame record to his long list when he leaped 24 feet 9% inches in the Drake relays to take second place behind Jesse Owens of Ohio State who set a new American college mark that day. Meagher as well as Owens broke the Drake Relay record. Don Elser, Notre Dame's currently greatest all-around athlete, set a new Penn relay record in the shot put the same day, hurling the 16-pound ball 50 feet 2% inches. The Irish two-mile and 880-yard relays each took third place at the Drake games. 
• 

FOOTBALL 
Meanwhile spring football practice came to an end May 5 with the an­nual Varsity-Old Timer's game, which you old timers will be sorry to hear went to the varsity by a 25 to 0 score. This was a margin of 25 points more than the 1934 varsity could get in last year's game, a 6-all FRANK WALKER/09, RETURNS TO WASHINGTON deadlock. 
Flashes of efficient blocking, spar-Association's Honorary President Renews Work in Inner Circle Ming performance by several back-
of New Deal as Most Successful Figure. 
field men, and sharper tackling than 
•was evidenced in the 1934 game were the more pleasant features of the 1935 contest. These were largely overshadowed, however, by poor han­dling of the damp ball, and by poor blocking most of the time. 
Joe Hoctor, a sophomore left half­back, and Mike Layden, junior full­back, showed what they could do when given some blocking, however, the former tearing off the picture i-un of the day, 60 yards for a touch­down, and the latter galloping 38 yards to score. The varsity also scored on a pass from Bill (The Bard) Shakespeare to WajTie Mill­ner, left end, good for 37 yards Three extra points after three touch­downs—^more like the old days—came from the toes of Marty Peters (2) and Bill Bruno (1). 
The other four points came about when the Varsity offense bogged down deep in Old Timer territory and Steve Banas, Old Timer fullback was trapped behind his own goal line for safeties. 
INTERSCHOLASTIC TRACK Plans are well under way for a bigger and better National Catholic Interscholastic track and field cham­pionships, the second annual running of the affair, to be one of the fea­tures of the 1935 commencement pro­gram. The affair got off to a flying start last year with more than 200 athletes from 24 schools entered. With nearly a month to go, 12 of last year's teams have signified that they will be back this year, and seven new teams are entered. The meet will be run at two o'clock Saturday, June 1, with the Com­mencement baseball game with Mich­igan State carded for 3:30 o'clock. Following are the new teams so far entered: Roger Bacon high school of Cincinnati, St. John's high school of Philadelphia, Good Counsel high school of Newark, N. J.; Cretin high school of St. Paul, Minn.; St. Augus­tine high school of Kalamazoo, Mich.; Topeka Catholic high school of To­peka, Kans.; and St. Ambrose high school of Davenport, Iowa. The repeaters so far are: St. Mary's high school, Columbus, Ohio; West Catholic high school of Phila­delphia, last year's winners; Aquinas high school of LaCrosse, Wis.; St. Rita high school of Chicago; De La Salle Institute of Chicago; De Paul academy of Chicago; Mt. Carmel high school of Chicago; Decatur (Ind.) Catholic high school; St. Bede acad­emy of Peru, HI.; Marmion prepara­tory of Aurora, 111.; Fenwick high school of Oak Park, ni.; and St. Thomas Military academy, St. Paul, Minn. 
Alumni need few details, such has been the acclaim of the national press concerning the return to Washington of Frank C. Walker, LL.B., '09. Mr. Walker returns to the national lime­light as head of a division of the administration which will pass on ap­plications for the president's four bil­lion dollar relief funds. 
Heralded widely for his modesty and efficiency, Mr. Walker's recall by President Roosevelt has been inter­preted by many Washington observ­ers as the recognition of the most 
AWAKD OF NiGRO-N.D. TROPHY 

Dr. D. M. Nigra, 'li, and diet Grant, '19, present neiv trophy to Al Rozgay, K.C. winner. 
Congressman Clark, '22 

Da\id AVorth Clark, A.B., '22, is in Washington as the Congressman from Boise, after a very upsetting 2 to 1 victory over an opponent last Fall. 
J. M. "Mike" Neitzel, '25 townsman, says the opposition hasn't figured it yet. Congressman Clark is married and father of two daughters. He had come to Boise as a member of the state's attorney's office, after a suc­cessful legal and speaking career in Pocatello. 
Sorin Rector's Fame Lives 

A feature in the Passaic, N. J., Herald -News recently brought to light early athletic glory in that cen­ter of undefeated teams. A large pic­ture of the Holy Name Temperance Society's football team of the '90s car­ried a story of seven seasons with but two defeats in the whole period. Prominent in the picture was a face that only last Sunday, May 5, launched the old-timers against the varsity in the Spring scrimmage— the smiling face of Father John Far­ley, rector of Sorin. 
consistently successful member of the official family that the New Deal has created.. 
In a characteristic letter to Notre Dame recently, Mr. Walker stated that the press had exaggerated his importance in the new pictre, but the ALUMNUS is willing to leave judg­ment in the hands of the fellow alum­ni. News reels, magazines, radio and press have brought unsought but in­exatable fame to Mr, Walker in rap­idly increasing measaure since his appointment late in April. 
Interest in Medieval 

The tenth annual meeting of the Medieval Academy of America was held in Cambridge and Boston on April 26 and 27. Among the inter­ested men in attendance was Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., director of the faculty of medieval studies at the University of Notre Dame. 
In view of the recent graduate courses in medieval studies offered for 1935-36, Fr. Moore was most at­tracted by the meeting of this very interesting organization, which, in conjunction with the University of Colorado, publishes a bulletin entitled 
Progress of Medieval Studies in the United States of Arnerica. The official organ of the Academy itself is Specii-Innu The -\cademy has sponsored and is sponsoring many important re­search studies in various medieval fields. 
Dr. Ralph Adams Cram, eminent Boston architect, whose firm designed the beautiful Notre Dame Dining Halls, and whose writings have been outstanding in recent Catholic lit­erature, is president of the Academy. Dr. Cram was awarded an honorary 
LL.D. by Notre Dame in 1924. 
French Teachers at N. D. 

Notre Dame was host May 4 to the 14th meeting of the Indiana chapter of the American Association of Teachers of French. It was the first meeting of its kind at the University. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, was the University spokesman in greeting the delegates. Rev. Charles Doremus, C.S.C, '06, Prof. Benjamin Dubois and Prof Earl Langwell, of the Notre Dame department of romance lan­guages, took part in the program. A contest for freshman students of French in the Indiana colleges was inaugurated at the meeting. 
ARKANSAS' NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS—Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14. Hope, President: Bart L. Roberts, 1323 Lincoln Ave., Utile Rock, Secretary. FATHER GEORGE STRASSNER, president of the Arkansas Club, was very kind and generous in notifying his constituency about the recent broadcast of the Jloreau Choir on the Columbia chain. Incidentally, Columbia followed through with a coast-to-coast from the Senior Ball, with Little Jack Little's orchestra, on May 10 and later this month will put the Glee Club on a national hook-up. 
BERRIEN COUNTY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BERRIEN COUN­
TY—Wm. H. Dovraey, '28, 1615 Oak St.. 
Niles, Mich., President: Malcolm K. Hatfield, 

•29. 2305 Niles Ave., St. Joseph. Mich.. Secretary. The Notre Dame Club of Berrien County, until that night youngest of all Notre Dame Clubs throughout the world, celebrated its first Universal Notre Dame Night at a banquet held at Variseo's Inn, near Niles, Michigan. Brief though inspiring talks were delivered by REV. GEORGE MARR, C.S.C, REV. FRANCIS BUTLER, 
CS.C, Prof. JAMES HINES, Prof. JOHN COONEY, Registrar ROBERT 
B. RIORDAN, Assistant Alumni Sec­retary BILL DOOLEY and Prof. BILL DOWNEY, president of the club. Toastmaster THOMAS FAR­RELL, chairman of the dinner com­mittee, also introduced CHESTER McGRiiTH of St. Joseph, who gave a number of illustrations regarding his old teammate, KNUTE K. ROCKNE. 
Among those present who cele­brated Universal Notre Dame night were ARTHUR JOHNSON, JOHN M. WEBER, JOHN BURNS, WILLIAM DESENBERG, CASPE R GRATH­WOHL, PHILLIP LANDSMAN, SHERIDAN COOK, MALCOLM HATFIELD, CLARENCE HESS, CHARLES BRUYCKER, ROBERT WATERSON, MAURICE WEBER, THOMAS GRIMES, IRVING HAL­LETT, ARTHUR HOLTON, RUS­SEL HART, THERON YOUNG, ROB­ERT FRANKLIN, ALFRED WHITE, JOHN JAUCH, MOSE KRINOWITZ, JOHN MEDO, EUGENE O'TOOLE, EUGENE GR-A.THWOHL, LOUI S PATTON, FR-A.NK DEITLE and NORMAN DUTTON. 
Due to the fact that the club could not secure the faculty dining hall on the campus in time to tune in on the broadcast it was decided to hold a stag party at Notre Dame soon after Commencement. 
After enjoying a splendidly cooked and seasoned Italian dinner (partly at the expense of the club treasury,) the meeting adjourned to the Four Flags Hotel where the St. Mary's club was holding a bridge party. Mrs. Eugene O'Toole was in charge. 

MALCOLM HATFIELD, Secretan-. 
BUFFALO NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO—Rob­ert Moore, '30, 31 Gerard PI.. President: Robert Measer. '34, The Amherst Bee Co., Main and Rock Sts., Williamsville. Secretary. 
A hundred couples, comprising present students and alumni and their friends attended the second annual Easter dance sponsored on Monday, April 22, in the crj'stal ballroom of the Hotel Lafayette, Buffalo, by the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo. BOB MEASER, secretary of the club, was general chairman of the event. Bob said in a recent letter that it turned out to be a great success, "surpassing our greatest expectations." A fine floor show was presented through the courtesy of Alhambra-on-the-Lake. 
A CORRECTION: A recent stoiy in the ALUMNUS intimated that the Phoenix Brewery had made a charge for refreshments at a recent club meeting held in its tap room. A wTong impression was thus given. The brewery donated the beer and the lunch. The charge went entirely to replenish the club treasury. 
A special broadcast over WEBR on Universal Notre Dame Night was attended by club members and their guests. The fine Notre Dame pro­gram for the occasion was arranged by MARTY RYAN. 
CALUMET DISTRICT 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUJIET DIS­TRICT—.lohn Stanton, '24. 1071 Broadway. Gao*. Ind., President: Fred J. Solman, ,Tr., *2S, 5752 Erie .-\ve,. Hammond. Ind., Sec. 
The Calumet Club met for dinner in the Hotel Gary on Univei-sal Night and listened to the oratory of Track Coach John Nicholson and National President TIMOTHY P.\TRICK GAL­VIN. JOHN STANTON, president of the club, was in charge of arrange­ments, 
WILLIAM L. TRAVIS, Hammond attoi-ney, was chosen to be the new president of the organization. PAUL BENANTE was elected vice-president and FRED SOLMAN and HUGH CARROLL were re-elected secretary and treasurer, respectively. 
Coach Nicholson was profuse in his praise of DON ELSER, Gary boy, who the previous Saturday had won the shot put at the Penn Relays. Nick predicted that Don would be a member of the next Olympic team. 
CINCINNATI NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI— Albert Castcllini, '24, 1001 Atlas Bldp,. President: George Auff, '33, 4335 Ridgeview Ave,, Secretary. 
As a result of the recent elections of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati, you will be receiving in­formation concerning the club's ac­tivities from me, for at least the next year. I sincerely hope that I can ful­fill my mission as successfully as did mv predecessor, HOGAN MORRIS­SEY. 
The fii-st thing of importance, I suppose is to give you a record of the officers of the club for the coming year. AL CASTELLINI was elected president, HARRY CRUMLEY, vice-president, GEORGE AUG, secretary, and DOC VAN LAHR, treasurer. 
We all expect the club to step out, and really accomplish even more things this coming year. There is go­ing to be a dogged effort on the part of all members to line up every Notre Dame man in the vicinity and encourage him to attend the meetings. 
Plans for Universal Notre Dame Night are progressing rapidly. Radio Station WFBE is going to carry a fifteen minute program for us, to which we are lending club talent in the persons of Hogan Morrissey, who will sing "Notre Dame, Our Mother," Al Castellini, who will talk of the University; and JOE MORRISSEY, who will enact a football skit associ­ated Avith Rockne. While that will be going on the club will be listening in at its Dutch lunch. Al has procured the services of the oiiginal Schnapps Band to enliven the members. Of course BOB KUERZE'S Hudepohl beer won't be missing. We feel that Notre Dame Night in Cincy is going to be well taken care of; here's wish­ing luck and success to observances everywhere. 
Quite a few new faces have been present at the last two meetings. TANK DONOHOE made an appear­ance for the first time this year; BARNEY HUGGER is another one, as well as BUD STITCH. 
COMMODORE ED McHUGH pro­vided a little entertainment in the form of an argument with CHAIR­MAN JOE KINNEARY of the Enter­tainment Committee. He opposed vig­orously the idea of holding the club picnic at Coty's Farm, because it has recently been turned into a cemetery. 
All in all, Jim, I'd say that the club is going to make many advancements this year. Al is so enthused with Ms office that he is making sacrifices to put his plans through. Here's hoping this letter will make up for the delay. 
GEORGE AUG, '33. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTI­CUT VALLEy—Thomas E. Fersruson, '26, 37 Windsor St.. Thompsonville. Oonn.. Presi­dent: Francis D. Ahem. •29. 1 Webster St.. Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 
Tentative arrangements of the Connecticut Valley Club provide for a meeting in Springfield at the Bridgeway Hotel in obser\'ance of Universal Noti-e Dame Night, -4.pril 29, 1935. It is our intention to have 

• a real gathering—dinner, entertain­ment, a few remarks and old-fash­ioned Corby sub "bulling." Invita­tions to be extended to all known Notre Dame men. 
A nominating committee will be appointed to draw up a slate for elec­tion of officers to be held at the next succeeding meeting. WILLI.A.M HUR­LEY is chairman of the arrange­ments. 
In regard to i-adio arrangements, I am pleased to inform you that Father Patrick Quinlan will speak over WDRC at 6:45, Ea.stem day­light time, for fifteen minutes. The "Travelers' Hour" over WTIC has graciously offered to devote part of that hour to Universal Night, and one of their choral songs, sung by a group of 60 voices, will be a school song. Appropriate announcements will be incorporated in the program. 
A Mr. Adams of the Hai-tford Office of the PhiIco Company 'phoned me Tuesday, advising me the factor}' had informed him of this event and extended his co-opei-ation. Upon be­ing told our affair would be held in Springfield, he referred me to Mr. Keller in that city. 
The material you fonvarded to TOM FERGUSON which might be used for radio addresses is one of the best pieces of work on Notre Dame that I have seen. Whoever prepared it is deserving of a great deal of credit. While passing out the plaudits, it is most apropos to commend the persons who made the arrangements for Universal Notre Dame Night. By far, they are the best to date and of course, far above anything attempted by any other school that I know of. 
Although I didn't have the oppor­tunity to "listen in" I understand the broadcast Monday, April 15, at 4:45, by the Moreau Seminar}- Choir over the Columbia system was the usual very high order and vei-y impressive. You will, no doubt, be interested to know that Tom Ferguson has written to the Columbia Broadcasting system and Station WDRC regarding the choir's broadcast. 
The songs, which you fonvarded to ray address, were appreciated and will come in handy for the meeting. Ar­rangements will be made to have the club reimburse the -Association. -Also, the copies of Notre Dame Men were received and careful distribution will be made of them. 
It is our intention to organize a speaking group within the Club. The 
The '^otre T>ame cAlumnus 
Spring again at Notre Dame. 
purpose of the group will be to ad­dress clubs, that is. Holy Name So­cieties et a/, regarding Notre Dame. [Ed's Note: .A.n excellent idea.] As mentioned above, the material pre­pared in connection with the radio broadcasts is about the best I have seen. Information contained in it could be readily used for such talks. (That's the build-up, the request fol­lowing.) If you have a few copies of this material left over, I would cer­tainly appreciate receiving them. 
Congi-atulations on the work you have done in ari-anging for Universal Night and my sincere wishes for it's success. I really cannot see how it will miss. 
PR-ANCIS D. .A.HERN. 
CLEVELAND 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELuVND— William R. Ryan. '11. IS84 Rosclind Ave.. East Cleveland. President: Pierce J. O'Con­nor. '28, 104-1 Hanna Bids.. Cleveland. Secretary. 
A number of us had the pleasure of lunching vrith. BILL DOOLEY when he was here on his recent swing around northern Ohio speaking to prospective N. D. freshmen. Unfor­tunately, the an-angements for Bill's appearances missed fire a bit, but the 
N. D. sentiment here, which has steadily been increasing, i^ll insure a good representation next September. 
The annual Easter formal at Guild Hall on Easter Monday under the capable chairmanship of CHET BRUMLEVE, was an outstanding success. -A. Hostess Committee, com­posed of wives of membei-s of the Club, rendered valuable cooperation in arranging attractive publicity. This committee was headed by Mrs. HARRY MILLER, who was assisted by Mesdames PAUL C-A.STNER, STAN COFALL, J.AMES R.DEVITT, JOHN F. GLEASON, JOHN W. GLEASON, JR., GEORGE J. H-AHN, May. 1935 
FEED JOYCE, GEORGE G. KER­VER, NORMAN McLEOD, WIL­LIAM J. O'NEILL, VINCENT PE­NOTE, CHAELESROHR.and LOUIS H. STETTLER, JR. 
GAY HAAS and JOHN SONN­HALTER were co-chairmen of the general committee composed of LAR­RY KEAL, WALT RAUBER, BILL KNAPP, PAT CANNY and FRANK BELTING. Valuable assistance was rendered to the committee by JIM CALLAGHAN, GEORG E O'D.AY, JOHN VENABLES, JIM DRISCOLL, DR. JOE HEIMANN, JOHN F. GLEASON, JOE BUTLER, HOW­ARD RICHARDS, BOB MORRIS­SEY, ED HOGAN, PAUL FRANTZ, BOB ANDREWS, ED CAREY, BILL BYRNE, JAMES BOURK, JERRY MILLER and OTIS WINCHESTER. 
JOHN GALL.AGHER, attorney with the Morris Plan Bank here, con­tinues his forensic acti\'ities, and re­cently represented the bank in an American Banking Institute debate in Chicago. 
His many friends in the club re­joice with Reverend JAMES J. MOEAN, '27, upon his ordination to the priesthood, at St. John's Cathe­dral, Cleveland, on Tuesday, -April 
23. Father Moran said his first Mass at St. Ann's Church, -April 28, and will shortly be assigned to parish work here. 
FRANK CELEBRESSE, -Assistant Prosecutor of Cuyahoga County, has just returned from a trip to Italy, where he assisted Italian authorities in convicting a fugutive who fled to Italy after a murder committed in this county several years ago. 
ART G-ALL.AGHER has recently become associated with Austin Com­pany, as an architect. 
On Universal Notre Dame Night, -April 29, the Club turned out in force, and traded campus reminis­cences at a stag party at the Turn­verein, arrangements for which were made by HOW-ARD RICHARDS. Two local stations carrie d Notre Dame progi-ams, which added greatly to the pleasure of the evening. 
PIERCE O'CONNOR, Secretarv. 

DETROIT 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF DETROIT—Wil­
lard Crotty, '2D. 830 Calvert Ave.. President: 
RoLcrt Baty. 'nO. 18074 Ohio .\ve.. Secre­
tary. 

Thanks for your letter of March 28, and for your congratulations. We all greatly regret that it was neces­sary for CHARLIE MOLZ to leave the Club presidency. However, we shall attempt to cari-y on the work he started. 
At the pi-esent, we are devising ways and means to revive interest in the Detroit Club. What we do will have to be done on a small scale and a limited amount of capital. Some way, we're going to get the boys to­
May, 1935 The l^lotre 1>ame cAlumnus 
gether—get the "old timers" out with us. To that end, we are giving a dinner dance on April 22, at North-wood Inn. The "tax" will be $1.50 per person—and if that doesn't get them out we'll try something else. However, I have appointed a com­mittee, headed by EMMET KELLY, consisting of Club members from way back when—and a few of the newer members too. 
This same group will also work to­wards a successful Universal Notre Dame Night, which falls on the fol­loOTng Monday. 
BILL GROTTY, President. 
A couple of items you may or may 
not know. The club has been incor­
porated as a non-profit organization 
in the state of Michigan. Two Notre 
Dame men have been elected to 
judgeship during the past two elec­
tions—THOMAS C. MURPHY, Judge 
of Probate, TOM MAHER, Recorders 
Court, traffic and ordinance division. 
BOB B.A.TY, Secretary. 
DAYTON 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON—Amos Qay. 'IS, Union Trust BMB.. President: An­drew A. Aman, Jr.. '30. 210 Lexington Ave.. Secretary. 
We held our annual election of of­ficers last night. The club always tries to have this on Universal Notre Dame Night, but this year we had to postpone it one night on account of a local bar examination meeting of which JOE MURPHY is president. WALTER BAUM.A.N, 217 North Rob­ert Boulevard, was elected president of the club for the coming vear suc­ceeding AMOS CL.A.Y. Yours truly was again elected secretai-y. 
Last night we decided to tiT to have a monthly noon time luncheon meeting taking place every first Fri­day. 

We are all anxiously awaiting the Ohio State vs. Notre Dame game this fall and I am fairly sure the club will be in Columbus 100% that day cheer­ing for X. D. 
ANDY AMAN. 
GOGEBIC RANGE 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE GOGEBIC RANGE—Victor E. Lemmer. '26, P.O. Box 
661. Iron\w3od. Mich.. President: Harold C. Cannon. '13, Curry Hotel, Ironwood. Mich.. Secretary. 

On Sunday, April 28, the Noti-e Dame Club of the Gogebic Range sponsored a half-hour radio program through the courtesy of the Ironwood station WJMS. As a part of the pro­gram, we secured an honored guest, 
J. E. Murphy, superintendent of schools at Hurley, Wisconsin. Through the kind cooperation of the Univer­sity of Michigan Club of the Upper Peninsula, of Michigan, Mr. Mui-phy was delegated to extend a message of 
Beautiful Notre Dame. 

fellowship to the University of Notre Dame. 
We were much impressed with Mr. Murphy's address. The Notre Dame men here felt that we were doing the unusual by having a Michigan man appear on a Notre Dame program. The spirit of fellowship demonstrated, and the splendid compliments we had as a result of our action, in securing a Michigan man for the program,, proved to us that our efforts wei'e well worthwhile. 
We also had the pleasure of a Uni­versity of Minesota man, Bayne Cum­mins, give an organ recital, over the radio, consisting of Notre Dame selec­tion. Our main speaker was JOSEPH 
J. GILL, a Notre Dame graduate of 1932. Joe did a splendid job of his speech which brought before the i-adio public an excellent picture of the accomplishments of our Alma Mater. 
VICTOR F. LEMMER. 

HOUSTON NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON—M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston. Texas, President: T. F. Green. Jr., '27, Gonroe, Texas. Secretary, The Notre Dame Club of Houston celebrated Universal Notre Dame night with a banquet in the private dining room of the Lamar Hotel. J.A.CK CHEVIGNY, '31, head coach at the Universitv of Texas, and his assistant, TIM MOYNIHAN, '29, were the principal speakers of the evening. Both Jack and Tim are expected to go places next Fall in the Southwestern Conference. 
Among those present were M. E. WALTERS, President, HERBERT B. KELLY, J. N. POWERS, R. D. FRENCH, G. W. BURKITT, JR., JOHN R. YOUNG, SR., GEORGE B. DOCK, M. J. LEAHY, T. F. HOGAN, GEORG E McH.A.LE, BRIAN S. 
ODEM and T. F. GREEN, JR., Secre­tary. TOM GREEN, Secretary.. 
INDIANAPOLIS NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOLIS —Harry Scott, "IT. 838 N. Detavmre St. President: John Carton, '28, City Hall, En-Kineerinff Dept., Secretary. It has been some time since yon have heard from the Indianapolis alumni, but thought I should drop you a line and let you know about the party we had Universal Notre Dame night. HARRY SCOTT really did himself prond on that night. We met at 6:00 at the Atheneum, a Ger­man Club here, to hear the radio pro­gram and it was certainly enjoyed by all present. 
We had dined at 7:00 and then a few speeches. AL FEENEY spoke briefly of Notre Dame life in the days when he was there, and of his associa­tions with ROCK. Clarence Sweeney, a Cornell alumnus but an ardent Notre Dame fan, told a few funny stories in a manner that couldn't be duplicated by anyone. BILL FOX spoke next and told several interest­ing sport stories. 
After the speeches were over we had election of officers and elected THOMAS JONES, our treasurer for 25 years, as president. FRANCIS MCCARTHY was elected vice-presi­dent and should be a fine assistant to Tom. In electing a treasurer the club did very well in choosing TOM MEEKER. Tom is now in the loan business and should be able to finance us in any project we undertake. I was elected secretary. After the din­ner table was cleared MIKE DUF­FECY played the piano and we all sang. (I might mention that Mike recently was married to Josephine Dickinson of Memphis, Tenn.) 
There were several old faces at the party. DUKE CL.A.NCY was there after an absence of several years. He has been with a radio station in De­troit, but is now located here with 
G.M.A.C. FRED MAHAFFEY re­ported to us that he and Tom have financed more cars this year than for several years and it looks like a big year. Tom is now a proud father of a baby girl, Ann. BILL MOONEY was showing a well tanned face after a vacation at Hot Springs. The latest addition to Bill's family is Michael Clune Mooney, and he promises to outdo the other three. 
We are working now on a plan to i-aise some money. We are going to raffle off a trip to the Ohio State-
N. D. game for two persons, paying all expenses for two days. Everyone seems to think it will go over big. We really need some money. 
Most of the boys from Indianapolis who have gi-aduated in the last few years are now working. FRED ZIET­LOW is state distributor for the Elec­trolo Stoker and is doing very well w-ith it. ALBERT SMITH is work­ing at the Fidelity Trust Company, where JL4URICE McNULTY is also employed as head of the Insurance Department. TOM MEEKER is vdtTa. the American Loan Company and JOHN CARR is with some govern­mental i-elief agency. JOHN SEX­
TON is a senior at the Indiana Law School this year. 
MIKE FOX. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
A New Notre Dame Club 
The Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana with Thomas A. Cannon, Muncie attorney, as president, was organized Monday night at a dinner meeting of the alumni and former students of the University of Notre Dame. The dinner, which was fol­lowed by a i"adio broadcast, was held in obsei-vance of the twelfth annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
EDWAR D FITZMAURICE of Winchester, was named vice-president of the organization; ALVIB GRANG­ER, Hartford Citv, secretar\-, and FRANCIS W. BROWN, Penmnlle, treasurer. FERD E. W.4.TS0N, Mun­cie attorney, was named chairman of a committee to draw up a constitu­tion and by-laws. The club will meet the first Monday night of each month and will hold its next regular meet­ing June 3. 
During the half-hour broadcast over station WLCB a musical pro­gram and two sketches were pre­sented. Francis W. Brown sang Noti'e Dame songs accompanied at the piano by Bob Minton. In the sketches were Thomas A. Cannon, Robert A. Holmes, James W. Halligan, Richard 
A. Greene and W. F. Craig, with Bob Wilson as announcer. 
Those attending the dinner were: JAMES W. H.A.LLIGAN, THOMAS 
A. CANNON, FRED E. WATSON, ROBERT E. HOLMES, HAROLD J. CASEY, CHARLES VOGT, W. F. CRAIG, HOWARD WEBSTER and Richard A. Greene, all of Muncie; LEO PBTTIG, Dale\-ille; .A.B COX and FRANCIS SCHWIER, Hartford City; F. B. TRAINOR and BOB KENNEDY, Newcastle: JAMES J. CONNER, Elwood; EDWARD FITZ­MAURICE, Winchester; FRANCIS 
W. BROWN, Penmille; RONALD O'NEIL, Dunkirk. 
• 
JOLIET 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Rolxirt 
Duffy. 'SI, 213 N. Hickorj-. President: Ed­
ward H. Kinc. 301 Ruby St.. Sceret.^r^•. 
Just a few lines . . . 
CHARLES LENNON has returned home from St. Joseph Hospital after an appendix operation. 
ROBERT BASKERVILLE has ac­cepted a position with the .A.merican Can Companv. 
FR.ANCIS DUNN has been ap­pointed by Governor Horner as Su­perintendent of Boxing and Wrestling for central Illinois district. 
THOMAS P. PEELY is hitting 1000 with the Public Service of Northern Illinois. 
A son was bom to Dr. and Mrs. 
E. J. JLA.YER on March 28. A very promising prospect for ELMER LAY­DEN about 1953. 
Our new club rooms, comer of Ruby and Route 66, were opened Uni­versal Night with great ceremonies. 
ED. H. KING. 
• 
JACKSON 
A New Notre Dame Club 
1 
-Attached is a clipping from the Jackson Citizen Patriot of this eve­ning telling about our little meeting in which was organized the Notre Dame Club of Jackson. It was a great success. BYRNE M. D.A.LY is the oldest N. D. man in Jackson. He was elected president. I was elected secretaiy and LYMAN HILL, treas­urer. 
The little talk I gave over the radio came off all right also, thanks to Charlie Hill, the manager of WIBM. 
Following is a list of the graduates now residing in Jackson: ED CAR­RINGER, WALTER DUCEY, CYRIL 
J. HARTMAN, HAROLD H.A.TCH, LYM.A.N HILL, C.A.RLETON MAINO, 
E. T. O'NEIL, LEON T. RUSSELL, JUSTIN TOMPKINS and myself. 
There are also a number of ex's living in Jackson at the present time: JOE BEHAN, BYRNE D.A.LY, JACK DESNOYER, BRIC K FLEMING, IRVING LAMMERS, HENRY OLM­STEAD, FRANK SAMELS, GEORGE SMITH, JOE TROMAN and BOB WEBER. 
At our meeting also were a num­ber of Notre Dame fans: Dick Tobin, Alidore Le Fere, Ed Behan, Wall Crowley, Lee Crowley, John Crowley, Tom Ktzgerald, Chuck Malaney, Walt Morrissey, Coach Elwood Wat­son of Jackson High, Paul Crowley and a number of others' including the local priests. 
-A.11 in all we had a great time and look forward to our next meeting. LESTER WISDA, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY— Daniel F. Foley. 'iS, 26 Wint Ave., Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas. President; John H. Duffan. *27. 7401 Terrace Ave.. Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
The Kansas City Notre Dame Club had a good turnout for the party Universal Notre Dame night. Imme­diately after the broadcast over N.B.C., the local broadcasting com­pany WHB, gave the Club here a full half hour. The club got together at Englemen's at six o'clock, hearing both broadcasts. All the food and drinks that sixty-five members could handle were there for the asking. 
My last oflBcial function was to call an election of officers. BOB TYLER, '29, was named president and CHAR­LEY MEYER, '29, secretary-treas­urer. Bob appointed an executive committee to work with him and Charley in an effort to promote a closer cooperation between the Uni­versity and the Notre Dame Club of Kansas Cit>'. HENRY A. BURDICK, our only football monogram man, '08, was named chairman of the new com­mittee. Other members are JIJI BRAY, three sport men '29; LEO McTERNAN, track '24; JIMMIE MURRAY, baseball '25; GUS VON WONTERGHEM,ti-ack '19; and DAN FOLEY. This will be a permanent committee. It is the hope that, rep­resenting the old and new in students, as the committee does, that the offi­cers will at all times be ready to meet the demands of the University and to further enliven interest in the club's activities here. I, personally, think the idea was great and will certainly do all I am able. 
Among the honored guests were Father MuUanev, S.J., of Creighton University; D-A.N WELCHONS, cap­tain of the track team in '29, (in from Ottawa, Kansas, to be with us); and the past president of the club for many years, DOC NIGRO. 
There was no speech making (that is, publicly). DUG-4N and M.A.SS­MAN gave a farewell speech and both reported on the fine financial condi­tion of the treasuiy. Meyer certain­ly will have to be bonded to insure complete safetv. 
DAN FOLEY. 
• KANSAS 
NOTRE DAUE CLUB OF KANSAS—Albert 
J. Gebert. 'SO. U. of Wichita. WichiU, President: Dan Welchons, '30. SOS E. I3th St., Hutchinson, Secretary. 
I just received your card—it was forwarded from Hutchinson. Since October I have been living in Ottawa, Kansas. 
I've neglected the Kansas Club ter­ribly but month after month rolls away and I neither see nor hear from any of the boys out here. We are not planning on Universal Night this year. However, several of us will be at the Kansas City meeting. I ex­pect to find the St. Benedict crowd there and will take SCOTT WASH­BURN, ex. '34, up with me. 
I hope this won't be too late to make the ALUMNUS, Jim. I know the boys will like to see the club at least mentioned. Be sure that we all send our congratulations to Notre Dame for that night, and we wish her the very best. I know that all the boys join me in being sorry that we can't congregate a crowd sufficient to hold our own gathering. 
With sincerest personal wishes, Jim, I remain as ever DAN WELCHONS. 

May, 1935 The "K^o tre T>am e cAlumnus 
LA PORTE 
NOTRE DAIIE CLUB OF LAPORTE. DJ­
..DIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indi­
ana Ave., LaPorte, President: Nonnmn 
Duke, '33. 304 Nile: St., Laporte. Secretary, 
tary. 
Universal Notre Dame night was duly observed in La Porte with a din­ner meeting of the Notre Dame club, attended by alumni and guests, at the Rumely hotel. About 30 persons were present. 
-A.. GORDON TAYLOR, president of the La Porte group, presided over the meeting here. 
The speaker was JOE ROLAND, assistant football coach at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Mr. Boland showed motion pictures of last sea­son's Notre Dame - Carnegie Tech football game, won by the Irish, 13 to 0. Mr. Boland first talked about the historic features of Notre Dame and then turned to football. He told of the prospects for the coming year and enumerated the positions which have to be refilled because of gradu­ation. While hopeful for a good team, the coaches recognize they have lost some valuable men, Mr. Boland said. 
Other speakers on the program were the Rev. -A.. C. Van Rie, pastor of St. Joseph's Catholic church here; 
A. J. RUJrELY, oldest Notre Dame alumni in the club; Charles A. Beal, 
E. J. Zahner, 0. D. Dorsev, .A.LBAN 
M. SMITH, LAWRENCE FITZSIM­MONS, ARTHUR ROULE, ^^ce-pres­ident of the club, and NORMAN DUKE, secretarj'. 
Two new members, S. -A.. SH.A.P­LEY and County Surveyor JOHN A. KELLEY, were taken into the club. 
The dining room was decoi-ated with pennants of the many diiTerent colleges. College songs were played and sung by the Silver Stiing or­chestra. 
MEMPHIS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS—Wal­
ter J. Fransioli. Jr., '34. 218 N. McLean 
Blvd.. President: Theon DohoRne. '27. 1072 
S. Wellington St., Secretary. 
On Universal Notre Dame night a meeting was held at the Catholic Club by the Notre Dame Club of Memphis. CHARLES M. BRYAN, '97, promi­nent attorney, delivered an excellent address over radio station WNBR to which the club members listened. J.AMES M. McCORMACK, '67, oldest Notre Dame graduate in the state of Tennessee, listened to the same talk in his own home. The efforts of THEON P. (FRENCHY) DOHOGNE and DAVID W. SAXON, JR. contrib­uted largely to the success of the meeting. 
Tentative plans were made on thi.^ occasion for another meeting early in June to welcome into the club the follo\ving young Memphians receiving degrees this year: STURLA CA­NALE, NEAL FARRELL, JERRY FOLEY, JOHN MONTEDONICO, JOHN aiURPHY, and LAVIN J. NICHOLAS. These men will be a welcome addition to our membership list, and they should contribute much to future activities. 
WALTER FRANSIOLL 
MILWAUKEE 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEH^— 
P. Dudley Pearson, "19, 2037 N. Lake Drive, President; Jolin Qauder, '34, 735 N. Water St., temporary secretary. 
Here is the dope for the Mav issue of the ALUMNUS: 
At this time plans are well under way for Universal Notre Dame Night. From the response the men are giving it looks like we are due for our big­gest meeting. Notre Dame men in Kenosha and Racine have been noti­fied and we hope to have them all with us. The meeting vvill be held at the Shorecrest Hotel, which by the way, is now the oflicial headquarters for the Notre Dame Club of Milwau­kee. We have placed a directory of all Notre Dame men at the desk for the convenience of those Notre Dame men who might be passing through town, and wish to communicate with any of us. 
We have been assured that FR. PAT HAGGERTY, C.S.C, of Water­town, will be with us, as well as Father Clark, of Pio Nono, and Father Sullivan. Coach Jennings, Marquette athletic director, is also planning on attending. 
There was much comment on the broadcast of the Notre Dame Moreau Choir and many of the men would enjoy more of them. 
Plans are under way for the presentation of the Rockne Memorial Trophy to the outstanding student and athlete at Marquette Fi-;h School, who is to be picked by the head of that school. Each year we have given one of these cups, which becomes the permanent possession of the recipient. 
The Notre Dame Club of Milwau­kee has connected itself with the Catholic Youth Movement in Wiscon­sin, which was started by Father Wagner of New Butler. All the men in the club have promised to aid this movement as much as possible in the future. 
Many men have talked about going down for Commencement in June, so we hope to see you then. 
JOHN CLAUDER. 
NEW YORK CITY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF 
NEW YORK—Edward T. TiKhe. '21. 32 
Franklin St.. Niw York City. President: 
J. Norbcrt Gclson. Jr.. •26. 1201 Tmy Ave. Brooklyn. Sccrelai*y. 
At the regular annual election meeting held in the Centre Clnb on March 26 the following were elected as members of the Board of Govern­ors: JOHN B. LAW, '29, DANIEL J. O'NEIL, '25, EDWARD T. TIGHE, '24, WARREN S. FOGEL, '30, AN­DREW J. SHEIBLER, '33, JOHN T. BALFE, '20, WILLIAM A. DAUNT, '05, LESTER C. GRADY, '27, HER­BERT P. GIORGIO, '33, and JOHN J. HAYES, '34. 
The following officers were elected for the coming year: EDWARD T. TIGHE, '24, President, JAMES F. DWYER, '26, Vice-President, LEO 
V. MCLAUGHLIN, '32, Treasurer, and J. NORBERT GELSON, JR., '26, Secretarj-. 
On Sunday, March 31, one hundred and fifty alumni attended nine o'clock Mass in St. Patrick's Cathedral and received Communion in honor of Knute Rockne. 
The Annual ROCKNE Memorial Communion breakfast followed at the Centre Club, 120 Central Park, South. The breakfast this year was also a memorial for FATHER JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, and for JOE SULLIVAN. 
Joe Sullivan's father. Police Lieu­tenant Timothy A. Sullivan, Ms three brothers, and his uncle were guests at the breakfast. 
JIM CROWLEY acted as toast­master and introduced the following speakers: James S. Carolan of the New York Times, and Jack Coffey, graduate manager of athletics at Fordham. 
A silent tribute was given to Rock at the beginning of the breakfast, followed by the playing of a phono­graph recording of one of his speeches. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner v\ill be held in the Hotel Mc-Alpin at 7 P. M. Father O'Hara will be our Guest of Honor. 
The annual retreat at Morristown, 
N. J. will be held the week-end of September 6. We are all joining with the New Jersey Club this year and plan to have a combined New York-New Jersey retreat. 
DOC GELSON. 
NEW JERSEY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY— 
B. K. Wingerter, '26, 113 S. Qinton St.. East OnmEC. New Jeney, President: ESd­ward Hargan. '26, 178 De Witt Ave., Bdle­ville; New Jersey, Secretary. 
FATHER GENE BURKE, head of the English Department at Notre Dame, was one of the impressive ar­i-ay of speakers who graced the highly successful Universial Notre Dame Night banquet of the New Jersey Club held at the Baltusrol Country Club, Springfield, New Jersey. ED­

The "Niotre 'Dame cAlumnus May, 1935 
DIE DUG GAN was chairman of the event. 
Other speakers on the program were JOE BYRNE, EIP JULLER, HARRY STUHLDREHER, KERNAN WINGEETER, president of the club, Lieutenant M. P. Echols, of the U. S. Military Academy and John A. Matr thews, advisory master of the court of chancer}' in New Jersey. FRANK ROAN was the toastmaster. 
Alumni representatives of other colleges and universities who attended the dinner included Arthur R. Jube, Amherst; Rudolph Deetjen, Cornell; Clark W. Tobin, Dartmouth; James Powers, Marquette; Harold Hansen, Minnesota; Donal Fox, Pennsylvania; and George Trevor, Yale. 
The committee which worked so effectively with Eddie Duggan was composed of ARCHIE DUNCAN, TOM FARRELL, RAY GEIGER, ART LEA MOND, GEORGE MER­EDITH, BOB PHELAN and JIM WALDRON. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
NOTRE DA»IE CLUB OF NORTHERN 
CAUFORNIA—Royal H. Bosshard. '17. 324 
Sansome St.. San Francisco, President: 
Robert B. Hill, '23, ."lOSS Proctor Ave., Oak­
land, Secretary. 

Don't drop dead! This IS a letter from the Noti-e Dame Club of North-em California. 
We haven't enjoyed any consider­able degree of success insofar as having lai-ge turnouts and lots of money in the treasury are concerned, but the gatherings which the few-faithful attend always are a success. 
Last Monday night we met at The Elks Club to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night at San Francisco, and the follo«-ing were present, R. 
K. BARRETT, MARK KREUTZER, FRANK HAGENB.A.RTH, H.A.RRY BURT, TONY GORM.AN, KEENE FITZPATRICK, TOJI L.ANPHIER, DOC QUINLAN, JOHN McINNESS, and ROBERT SULLIVAN, and the evening was a huge success. 
Those unavoidablv detained were ROYAL BOSSHARD, BREEN Mc-DONJU.D, CLIPPER SMITH, DOC­TOR TONER, DOCTOR TERRY and EUSTACE CULLINAN, JR. 
No excuses wei-e received from the remaining members. Out of fifty-four members listed, it sesms that this is a verj' small percentage inter­ested in Notre Dame affairs. HariT,' Burt devoted the evening to the oc­casion despite the fact that election returns on his candidacy for council­man at Richmon were being tabulated in that citj'. 
Business decided:— 

First. That there be an annual Rockne Memorial Dinner in this city each year on the day of his birth. 
Second. Finances, as usual, showed up, and probably was the reason for some of the members staying away. Nothing definite was done outside of appointing a Ways and Means Com­mittee to investigate our liabilities. 
Third. That we establish a tradi­tion in the club that we always say grace before and after meals, regard­less of place. 
Fourth. .4t the urgent request of some of the members, a committee was appointed to seek spiritual aid for needy members of the club by presentation of such problems to Father O'Hara. 
Due to the absence of the secre­tai-y-treasurer, Breen McDonald, Rob­ert Sullivan was appointed scrivener. 
ROBERT P. SULLIVAN. President. 

OKLAHOMA' 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— 
Jos. A. Moran, '32, 1611 S, Carson, Tulsa. 
Okla., President: Norkert F. Skdly. "25, 
University Club, Tulsa. Olda., Secretary. 

The Committee of Six sent out a letter on April 5. The following is part of it: 
"Since the 29th is a Monday night and i-ather inconvenient for those driving any distance, we have chosen Satui'day evening, April 27th for our part of the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night, which is to con­sist of a verj- informal dinner at 
7:00 P. M. in the Mayo Hotel in Tulsa. We had one of these dinners last Spring but did not make our plans soon enough to notify everyone in the State. Again, on December 8th, the evening of the Notre Dame-Southern California game, we had a similar affair. Both of these dinners were verj' well attended and the old students were about evenly di­vided. It is our earnest desire to have everyone possible present on the 27th of this month. 
Whether or not you will be able to be present for the dinner, we would appreciate a card or letter from you acknowledging this note and giving your con-ect address and the names and addresses of any other alumni or old students that we may have missed. 
The committee in charge of ar­i-angements consists of JOE LAN­TRY, '07, TOM SHEA, '12, JOHN CONWAY, OS. '17, BILL SHERRY, OS. '19, HASKELL ASKEW, '31 and JOHN MARTIN, '34. 
Please address your replies as soon as possible to—^Haskell Askew, 505 
N.W. 20th, Oklahoma City, or to Joseph A. Moran, 1611 South Carson, Tulsa. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO 
—Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15, Hoster Real­
ty Bid?-. Columbua, President. 
Ohio State-N. D. 
November 2, 1935 
Here's Tbe Dope 

The Notre Dame University Club of Central Ohio is looking ahead with concern to the problem of taking care of and entertaining Notre Dame men and their friends at Columbus, Ohio next November 2 when ELMER L.\YDEN and his charges meet Ohio State's football team at Columbus. The Central Ohio Club contemplates arranging a luncheon or dinner on Friday, November 1, in order to enable the people of Central Ohio to meet the respective directors of athletics, coaches, other officials, and possibly the teams. Following the game on Saturday night, arrangements are be­ing made for a Notre Dame dance. 
Every present indication is that the game will be a sell-out well in ad­vance of November 2. The interest in it throughout the Middle West and, particularly, in Ohio is almost un­believably intense. [After a week's journey through Ohio the -Associate Editor can emphatically verify this .statement.] 
.4fter a conference with ART H.A.LEY, business manager of ath­letics we recommend 
(1)
 that alumni pay their 1935­36 alumni dues promptly so as to receive a preference in tickets for the game; 

(2)
 that alumni ticket orders be received at Notre Dame not later than August 1. 


-Mumni will, as usual, I'eceive ticket application blanks in July, probably about the loth. Any alum­nus who has not received them by July 20 should ^\Tite immediately to the Football Ticket Committee, Notre Dame. All ticket orders for the game will be handled individually from Notre Dame. Experience at the University has proved conclusively that such a system is for the best in­terests of the majority. Neither the Central Ohio club, with headquarters in Columbus, nor any other Notre Dame club in the state will have any groups or blocks of tickets to handle or reserve. 
RAY EICHENLAUB, President. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
-VOTRE DAME CLUB OF WEST. PENN­
SYLVANIA—Francis 3. Wilson. '28. 1217 
Melvem. PittshurKh. President: Edward J. 
O'Brien. Jr.. -146 Woo<l Street. PittsburKh. 
Secretary. 

Since my last letter the Club has again changed the meeting place for the weekly luncheons. They are now being held at the Roosevelt Hotel on May, 1935 
Penn Avenue near Sixth Street. The time remains the same: 12:15 every Thursday. 
At the last meeting definite plans were made for our observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Presi­dent FRITZ WILSON has been under the weather lately with a bad head cold, but has things pretty well lined up despite his illness. The party will be held at the Long Vue Country Club on the 29th. It will be the usual thing—dinner, an impromptu speech or two, gabfest, and, who knows, maybe a bit of beer. 
We have also an-anged for our an­nual golf tournament to be held at Wildwood Country Club on Monday, May 6. Having endured his jibes about Pittsburgh's brand of golf long enough, the boys have decided the eminent Cleveland golfer and alum­nus, PAT CANNT, must be silenced. CHRISTY FLANAGAN will be pitted against Pat and we Pittsburgh­ers feel confident of the outcome. Christy's assistant at Duquesne U., JOHNNY SMITH, will no doubt be on hand to render encouragement when and if needed. 
ED NEBEL, CHICK and JACK SHEEDY, Doctor LEO O'DONNELL, ED BYRNES, BILL STEITZ and the other golfei-s have already made ar­i-angements to shelve the wives and babies for the day of the tournament. FRITZ WILSON promises to recover in time; since he has a score or two to settle with certain other golfing gentlemen of the Club. 
ED O'BRIEN. 

PHILADELPHIA 
NOTRE DASIE CLUB OP PHILADELPHIA —August Desch, '23. 1421 N. Broad St.. President; Wm. E. Cooney, "31. 5725 McMa­hon Ave., Secretary. 
Of course Universal Notre Dame Night plans to top the list of news­worthy items from the Philadelphia area. We have completed plans to hold a dinner at the Penn Athletic Club April 29, and by the tone and number of reservations received the eveniing should be a splendid Notre Dame celebration. 
Your efforts with the radio stations have borne fruit, so JACK McANUL-TY is working on a program for the local stations. At present he is find­ing it difficult to locate talent among the lads, but we are sure the people are due for a fine bit of entertain­ment. BILL CASTELLINI, '22, who is connected .with the Philco organiza­tion, is lending us a hand in our preparations, and through his efforts we will be able to listen to the na­tional hook-up at the Penn A. C. 
The annual election of officers will be held Notre Dame Night. New members of the Board of Governors are WALTER RIDLEY, JOHN T. 
The f^^otre 1)ame cAlumnus 
NEESON, and CHARLES McKIN-NEY. 
ROBERT RIORDAN, the Registrar, was a welcome guest at the Club's April meeting. Bob was in the city to address some of the local high school assemblies. He brought us the latest news from the campus and had answers for all the questions fired at him when he elected an open forum. 
A group of sixteen (16) membei's joind "Chief" Neeson on a retreat at Malvern April 5-7 which was at­tended by 105 men. This doubled the number of local club members who made the retreat last year, and every fellow has plenty of praise for this spiritual acti^-ity. 
In your April ALUMNUS it seems that I slipped badly when I omitted the names of JACK REILLY, BILL BODO, and JACK McANULTY as the fellows who now sav it as Mr. and Mrs. 
Here's to a pleasant and successful Notre Dame Night. BILL COONEY. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
>fOTBE DAME CLUB OF EAST. PENN­SYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre. "28. Bethle­hem. Pa., President. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the East Penn club at the Hotel Allen in AUentown. Din­ner and refreshments were served at seven o'clock et scq. President LEO McINTYRE, the educational builder-upper of Bethlehem, was in charge of arrangements. 
ROCHESTER 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER— James Jones, *22, 319 Ellwancer and Barry Bids.. President: Frank N.irton. '32. 80 Beclcwith Terrace, Secretary. 
Things have been rather quiet dur­ing the Holy Season and the club stands ready to swing back into form as soon as things become active. The return of the undergraduates for Easter vacation will put us to the limit vieing for social honors. 
President JIMMIE JONES has cel­ebrated the an-ival of Spring by mov­ing his law offices to the Central Trust Building, where he upholds the traditions of American jurisprudence. I saw JOE TIERNEY the other day, smiling as usual. Joe has had a win­ter of it with his children being sick. The other night I ran into FRANTC DE CLERCK, who is still a coal mer­chant as usual, praying for this cold snap to continue. JOE GERAGHTY and I groan over the market quite regularly now. JERRY SSHTH makes himself scarcer than a good job; I guess I'll have hunt him up. 
PETE CONNELLY finishes law 
school this June; he said the other day he expected to hang out the shingle in town. I understand that JIM REIDY, from Pittsburgh, is now working here for National Biscuit. He can furnish the pretzels for the next meeting. 
So, until the next meeting, that's about all the news. Universal Notre Dame night ought to furnish plenty of it. 
FRANK NORTON. 

SAGINAW VALLEY 
A New Notre Dame Club 

April 29, 1935 "We, the undersigned, being of sound mind, have this day organized the Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club. The program was fine—^we couldn't hear it. But you will hear from us. 
"Still being sound in mind, we hereto affix our signatures — BILL HURLEY, Secretary; TOM VAN AARLE, President; PETE BRYS­SELBOUT, Vice President; MATT G.AJIRIGAN, JACK ZUBER, ED KERNS, JOE FRISKE, JOHN BLANKE, JOE BLANKE, JOE VER­TACNIK, CHARLIE KRETSCHMER, JOHNNICKOD-EMUS, JOHN MEAGHER, HAROLD LAPPDSr, JOE BURTON , PAUL WENDLAND, MARTIN WENDLAND, JOHN VER­TACNIK, JOE GODDEYNE, GEORGE WEADOCK, JACK WEA­DOCK, JOHN McGlNTY, DOC ZIL­lAK, JOHN FREDERICKS, CLEM NIEDZIELSKI, TOM DONNELLY, 
HERB SCHNETTLER, LARRY STRABLE, JOHN McCARTHY, TONY ALBOSTA, TONY FAVARA, ROY SATIZONE, ED BARNETT, RAY TATHAM, WARREN TA­THAM, BOB TATHAM, BILL KEN­NEDY, DAN SANFORD." 
SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
NOTRE DAME CX,UB OF SPRINGFIELD — Mike F. Kinney. '31. State House. President: John Troy. C-T. "28. 800 S. Ninth St.. Sec­retary. 
The Springfield Notre Dame Club has lost one of its most respected members. EUGENE R. SCHWARTZ, '27, who was vice-president of our club last year, died on April 18,1935, in Chicago. At a special meeting on Tuesday night, .4ipril 9, 1935, it was voted to have a Solemn High Requiem Mass celebrated in his memory. The date on which the Mass will be cele­brated will be announced later. 
Official plans for Universal Notre Dame Night are still incomplete. The indication, is though, that it will be a mixed party, the wives and lady friends of the members assisting in the celebrating. 
JAMES B. QUINN, '97, has joined 
250 

the ranks of the aged. He has the distinction of being the only grand­father in the club. His daughter, Mrs. Robert Eck, on April 7, 1935, gave birth to a baby girl. 
Friends of JOHN CARROLL, '28, 

•will be glad to know that his wife is doing fine in St. John's Hospital. Mrs. Carroll presented John ivith a fine girl—third child—on April 17, 1935. 
JOHN R. TROY, 
Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
NOTRE DAJIB CLTTB OF THE ST. JOSSEPH VALLEY—Fnincis .lonpf. •2n. 802 LO.O.F. BWjr.. South Bend. Inil.. Presnlont: Tv^iiis Ch.inlo.iu. 'SO. Uninn Trust Bldpr.. Siuth Bend. Ind,. Secroiar>'. 
I receix'ed your postcard stating that copy for the ALUMNUS should be in your bands by April 20. This being April 25,1 think it is only right and just that I should answer your request. 
The St. Joseph Valley Club has been rather inactive since our last letter. However, on March 31 the club had a Mass said in commemora­tion of the anniversaiT of the death of KNUTE K. ROCKNE. Jlore than 100 members of the club attended this Mass which was held in Dillon Hall Chapel. Mrs. Rockne, Jane and Bill were the guests of the club. After the Mass, which was read bv REV. FRANCIS J. ROLAND, C.S.C, prefect of disciuline at the Universitj' and chaplain of the club, a breakfast was held in the lav facultv dining room. At the breakfast Father Bo-land and FATHER HUGH O'DON­NELT,, acting president of the Uni­versity, addressed the members. I suupose it is superfluous to say that Most of those who attended the Mass went to Communion. 
LOUIS GARY CHAPLEAU, -who we understand from the societj' pages is a descendant of an old New Eng­land family, was recently made a member of the firm of Farabaugh & Petteneill and the name of the firm is now FARABAUGH, Pettengill & CHAPLEAU. 
J. ELMER PEAK, iudge of the St. Joseph Superior Court No. 2, is quite active locally and we note that he has been making quite a few speeches. The judije has turned into quite a cosmopolite and spends his summers on foreign shores while the local yokels wheel up to Lake Michigan and get a sunburn. 
On Monday evening, April 29, the club will observe Universal Noti-e Dame Night at the Jefferson Plaza. We presume that bv the time this letter is printed (perhaps that should be if this letter is printed) Universal Notre Dame Night will be over. 

The '3^ aire 'Dame cA I u m n u 
Therefore we will say that Universal Noti-e Dame Night was held on April 29 at the Jefferson Plaza. The local alumni jammed the doors and taxed the capacity of the hall to attend the banquet furnished by Pete Redden, "class 1776". A noted list of speak­ers graced the platform (we say this as BILL SHEEHAN has not informed us who the speakers will be, but we are sure they will be noted, and this letter must be in your hands for the Five Star final). PRANK "RANGEY" MILES was in charge of the program for, the evening. High class and ex­pensive entertainment was furnished by the club and all members bene­fitted from the cultural standpoint. 
The nominating committees report­ed 24 names for members of the Board of Governors and the following twelve were chosen as directors for the year 1935-36: RUSSELL ARNDT, LOUIS BUCKLEY, JOHN BREN­NAN, HERBERT JONES, JOSEPH CASASANTA, LOUIS J. BRUGG­NER, THOMAS HICKEY, JAMES J. BOLAND, LOUIS C. CHAPLEAU, 
J. W. GIBBONS, FRANK J. HISS, and FRANCIS JONES. 
The following are the new officers of the club: Honorary President, REV. JOHN P. O'HARA, C.S.C; Chaplain, REV. J. HUGH O'DON­NELL, C.S.C; President, FRANCIS JONES; Active V.-President, LOUIS BRUGGNER; Secretan^ LOUIS C CHAPLEAU; Treasurer, LOUIS BUCKLEY; Assistant Treasurer, R. FLOYD SEARER. 
FRANCIS JONES. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK —W. Ed. Byrne. 
•26, Travelers Insarance Co.. Syracnse. N.Y.. President: Ward L. Leahy. "26. 307 Forest Hill Drive, Syracuse, N. Y.. Secretary. 
National Noti-e Dame night was ob­seiTed by members of the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse, at a meeting on Monday night, April 29. 
EDWARD A. BYRNE, retiring president, gave an interesting talk over the radio, regarding the Notre Dame Libraiy and the famous art collection exhibited there. 
Officers for the coming year were chosen with the result that WARD LEAHY will occupy the chair of the president, H. J. CORCORAN vice-president, and FRANK J. CASHIER, 
secretary. 
Among those present were: E. A. BYRNE, WARD LEAHY, VINCENT BROWN, JAJIES HUXPOBD, J. ECKEL, PHILIP GOOLEY, LEO A. KELLEY, RICHARD BLOOM, FRED DeLANY, W. P. SULLIVAN, E. C. SHONLAU, GEORG E KINNEY, CHARLES TOPPING, B. V. Mc­
) May, 1935 
ADAMS, JAMES MULVANEY, TOM DeLANEY and PRANK J. CASHIER. 
A golfing party and dinner will be held for all members in the near fu­ture. 
• 
TRI-CITIES 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift. '20, Kahl Bids.. Daven­port, Iowa. President; Arthur L. Himbert, '32. 627 39th St.. Rock Island. HI.. Secre­tary. 
Universal Notre Dame night was celebrated by the members of the Tri-City Club at the Port Armstrong hotel in Rock Island, HI., on Monday, April 29. About 35 members were present. 
Two radio pi-ograms were put on during the course of the evening by the group. The first was broadcast over Station WOC starting at 8:30 
p. m. with RICHARD SWIFT, Dav­enport attorney and past president of the club, gi\ing an address on Notre Dame and its traditions. One of the late Knute Rockne's pep talks to his team was presented on the program by means of a phonograph record. 
At 9 p. m., the entire group at the 
. Fort Armsti-ong were heard on a pro­gram over Station WHBP. On this program, GEORGE UHLMEYER, JR., of Rock Island, gave a short ad­dress on the meaning of Universal Notre Dame night and then served as master of ceremonies for the re­mainder of the program. JAMES F. JIURPHY of Rock Island, one of the oldest members of the alumni associa­tion in this vicinity, and OSCAR F. SMITH, also of Rock Island, captain of the first Notre Dame baseball team, gave short talks on their alma mater. The entire group sang three University songs during the program, beginning with "When The Irish Backs Go Marching By," "The Hike Song," and concluding with "The Notre Dame Victor}' March." 
Thomas Layden, father of ELMER LAYDEN, head coach at Notre Dame and of MIKE LAYDEN, a member of the Irish football squad, was in­troduced to the radio audience, as was Steve L. Miller, father of STEVE MILLER, JR., also a mem­ber of the Notre Dame football squad. 
JOSEPH WHALEN, manager of the Fort Armstrong hotel, and WELLS ROBINSON of Davenport, also gave brief talks on the more re­cent developments at Notre Dame. 
The remainder of the evening was spent informally. 
UTICA 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA. NEW YORK—Dr. John F. Kclley. '22. Feoplei' Gas and Electric BIdf;.. President; Joseph 
W. Fullem. '31, 1621 Neilson St.. Secretary. 
We held our annual meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night as usual 

May, 1935 The TS^otre Dame cAlumnus 251 
at the University Club in this city and had a splendid attendance consider­ing our scarcity of numbers as com­pared with the larger clubs in the metropolitan centers. 
This year's meeting also marked the tenth anniversarj- of the found­ing of our club here in Utah. 
Through the courtesy of the Philco people a radio was installed in the li­biar}' of the club and we listened in to the Studebaker-Notre Dame pro­gram which we surely enjoyed. We then held our business meeting with the president, RAY BRADY, and the secretary, the undersigned, being re­elected. The new board of governors were also selected for the ensuing year. Thev are JUDGE R. I. McDON-OUGH, SAMUEL POWELL, WAL­TER BEESLEY, OTTO ENKING and JOHN C-A.PITOLO. REV. PATRICK JIcGUIRE is the club chaplain. 
It was decided to revive the old custom of holding luncheons at regu­lar inten-als, and we have decided to hold a luncheon the last Tuesday of this month, at which time we expect to plan a party to be held some time this coming summer at the countiy club, or some other suitable place, with the ladies being present. 
We concluded the meeting with the usual luncheon and refreshments, and as usual it was good to see al the old timers again. 
CY HARBEKE, Secretary. 

WATERBURY NOTRE D.«IE CLUB OF WATERBURY— John Robinson. '28. 32 Farmington Ave.. President: James M. Monashan, *27. 44 .\yer St.. Secretary. The Notre Dame Club of Water­bury, small in number, but limitless in its ambitions and achievements, scoi'ed heavily Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner followed by a radio program over Station WLXBS. 
The program, planned by JACK HENRY, '34, station announcer, and JOHN ROBINSON, '28, president of the club, was most successfully aug­mented by the REV. PHILIP MOORE, C.S.C., '24, who spoke on the pro­
• 

MARRIAGES 
Miss Margaret Mary McDermott and BERNARD E. ZIPPERER, '28, were married May 6, in Niles, Ohio. 
Miss Lillian Sprowles and Dr. WIL­LI-A.M H. MORAN, '30, were married April 27, in Boston, Mass. 
Jliss Mai-v Jane Anderson and THOMAS C.'MOYNIHAN, '34, were gram concerning Notre Dame main­tenance of the traditions of the great Medieval Catholic universities. 
Several skits, an interview with John Robinson, and musical selections occupied a full hour from 9 to 10 o'clock P. JI., with most encouraging and enthusiastic response. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASH­INGTON — Joseph Sinnott. 'OS. 1931 E. Lynn St.. Seattle. President: E. Morris St!»rrett. "21. SOI Washineton St.. Port Tou-nsend. Secretarj*. 
To Notre Dame, congi-atulations; to Studebaker, thanks for putting on the most successful Universal Night in years. 
You know, outside of the fall foot­ball broadcasts we inhabitants of the Pacific Northwest enjoy only a few direct contacts with the Alma Mater so you can readily judge what a boost it is to our club spirit to again join in the intimate affairs of Notre Dame. The e.\cellent news FR. 0'H.A.RA had for us was well received. Especially so was the financial progress he is making which is really something at this time. Ye, it was great to hear his voice again. Do you suppose Fr. O'Hara will be out this way soon? 
Our meeting and dinner, held at the Washington Athletic Club, was well attended and if I'm not mistaken we all left feeling veiy happy (men­tally, ya mug). MORRY STARRETT made away with the list of attend­ing members and since my memoiy has failed a bit since then it would be impossible to mention names and still keep a diplomatic tone to this letter. However, during the lull between dinner and the broad­cast the politicians took the gathering over and called an election of new officers. Unanimously called to the president's chair was JOHN J. DEMPSEY, '95, of Tacoma. He de­livered a very interesting talk on the Notre Dame of 1895 and a few side­lights on the positions many of his classmates have gained during the years.. The younger members were greatly impressed by these concrete 
 THE ALUMNI 
married May 1, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Schoonover and ROB­ERT L. HAMILTON, '34, were mar­ried April 27, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Josephine Dickinson, of Mem­phis, and MICHAEL J. DUPFECY, '27, Indianapolis, were married last examples of the opportunity Notre Dame presents to lay a foundation second to no other institution. Mr. Dempsey now has two sons attend­ing Notre Dame as further proof of his confidence in the University. The writer had the thankless job of sec­retaiy thnist upon him. 
Jimmie Phelan exhibited two reels of his U. of W. team in action against 
U.S.C. amid a tumult of suggestions for improvement from the back of the auditorium. The humor, however, being spontaneous was good. 
But all is not a bed of roses out here, Jim. We seem to have a lot of trouble getting the younger mem­bers of the alumni in this section to attend these meetings. As remedies don't suggest better times because we have a helluva lot of fun; nor less expense to those attending be­cause of budget is balanced. It must be a bashful tendency on the part of those later than '20 because 90% of the active members are before that. 
And so again congi-atulations and thanks, 
BOB PIGGOTT, Secretaiy. 

WOMEN'S CLUB THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick. C.S.C.. '24. St. Maryi CoIIesre. Notre Dame. President; Miss Rose Stcflanialc. '26. 161 Walnut St.. Goldwster. Michigan. Secretary. 
-A. Universal Notre Dame Night Jlessage: 
On this day, when our hearts and prayers are with our beloved Notre Dame, we beg you to offer to Rever­end Father O'Hara, her distinguished President, sincere greetings from the Women's Club of the Alumni -Associ­ation. It is the prayer of each mem­ber that our Lady smile down a bless­ing on her own school tonight and every night, and bring to each mem­ber of her faculty and student body the holy strength needed by Christian leaders today. 
Vei-j- sincerely yours. 
Sister Maiy Frederick, C.S.C., 

President of the Women's Club. 
• 

December, according to word just in on the pony express. 
ENGAGEMENTS 
-Announcements have been made of the following engagements: Miss Katherine McGivem and 
THOMAS BYRNE, '28. The wedding will take place May 18. 
Miss Kathleen Co.x and CHARLES 
J. KOVACS, '31. The mai-riage will take place June 1. 
Miss Margaret Mary Gordon and J. JOSEPH HUGHES, '31. 
Miss Helen Cook and CLARENCE 
H. FUTTER, '31. The marriage will take place May 30. 

Miss Kathryn M. Loesch and WIL­LLA.M E. COONEY, '32. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH R. BERG­MAN, '24, are the parents of a son, bom March 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER O'KEEPE, '21, announce the birth of a son on April 25. 

Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. McNA-MARA, ex. '29, announce the arrival of a son, Daniel Jefferson, Jr., April 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS MORAN, '27, announce the arrival of a daugh­ter, Marillyn Regina, May 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. GIBBONS, '30, are the parents of a daughter, bom March 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. FR.A.NCIS MESSICK, '30, announce the birth of a son, Frederick Morton, April 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. RALPH E. ROGERS, '34, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Rosalia Isabel, April 1. 
DEATHS 

ROBERT Q. MURPHY, '26, died in Escanaba, Michigan, his "home town" on April 22 after a long ill­ness. One of Doctor Cooney's most able journalism graduates. Bob was brilliantly started on a career with the Roche Advertising Company in Chicago when he was stricken and forced to move to Albuquerque, New Mexico. He returned to Escanaba a few months ago. His wife and chil­dren survive him. 
A victim of a gall stone operation which was followed bv complications, EUGENE R. SCHWARTZ, '27, died in the Henrotin Hospital, Chicago, on April 10. Father William A. Carey, C.S.C, and Professor Paul Fenlon, two of Gene's closest friends on the campus, were among the group of Notre Dame men who attended his funeral in Naperville, Illinois on April 13. 
As superintendent of registration for Illinois, Gene held one of the most responsible positions in the official life of the state. He was also one of the most active members of the Notre Dame Club of Springfield, Illinois. 
Surviving are his wife and one child, 
a brother Charlie, '30, and a sister. 
HENRY CLARKE, 7628 Essex Avenue, Chicago, a student at Notre Dame in the '70's, died on April 13 in Chicago. He is survived by his wife and seven children. Mr. Clarke returned to Notre Dame in 1913 to receive his Master of Law degree. 
WILLIAM E. DONAHUE, 51 yeai-s old, former advertising manager of the Chicago Tribune, uncle of Char­lie Donahue, '25, died in Sacred Heart Sanitarium, Milwaukee, on April 28 after an illness of five months. Closely associated •with Notre Dame for many yeai-s and a frequent special lecturer on the campus, Mr. Donahue had numerous friends at the University. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice-president. Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C, editor of Tbc Are Maria, and J. E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, represented the Universitj- at the funeral. 
Father O'Donnell, then acting pres­ident, issued the following statement on hearing of Mr. Donahue's death: 
"Mr. Donahue for a long period of years has been unstinting in service to Notre Dame, acting as an adviser in matters of curricula pertaining to marketing and advertising. He was also generous with his time in coming to lecture to the students of com­merce. 
"His death is a severe loss to this college and to the University as a whole." 

LAUGHLIN T. BRENNAN, '31, died in New Y'ork on May 4 after an illness of one day with pneumonia, according to word verj- thoughtfully sent to the Alumni Office by John Cassidy, '30. Laughlin formerly re­sided in Tuexo Park, New York, but more recently had been living at 309. West 21st Street, New York City. 
Just within the past month has the Alumni Office heard of the death, on May 28, 1932, of FRANCIS D. HENNESSY, '94, of Portland, Ore­gon and, an February 20, 1934, of FRANCIS V. LINDON, of Larch­mont. New York. 
A clipping from the Detroit Navs forwarded by John Higgins, makes known the death in that city of ALEXANDER J. CHENE, 82 years old, a former Notre Dame student. Mr. Chene was a descendant of Pierre Chene, member of the party led by Cadillac which founded Detroit in 1701. 
EDWARD S. EWING, B.S., '88, M.S., '95, died in Manila on May 5, at the age of 65, according to word just received from his brother, Neal H. Ewing, A.B., '84, A.M., '87, of Roselle, New Jersey. Mr. Edward Ewing taught at Notre Dame follow­ing his graduation. From 1903 until 1917 he was in the United States Bureau of Education for the Philip­pines and from 1917 until 1926 he was associated with a Business Col­lege in Manila. 
Mr. Ewing was unmarried. He is survived by his brother and by three sisters. Burial was in Manila. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: TOM MCLAUGHLIN, '33, on the death of his father and to TOM O'MELIA, '34, on the death of his father. 
• 
1890 
1890-93—Loaia P. Ohnte, 7 University Ave., 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
I know that the members of the class of '90 are in full accord with all the friendly things said in the April ALUMNUS regarding Father John W. Cavanaugh, who recently left us, and whom they will recognize as "one of Notre Dame's greatest Presidents." 
Father Cavanaugh was an out­standing ornament in the history of Notre Dame, and a pronounced ex­ponent of the excellent spirit that has always characterized our college. It was always an inspiration to be met by his sincere, cordial and en­thusiastic welcome. I know that this was his spirit to all the students of the college, and it seems especially so in case of the older students on their occasional visits. 
He was a product of the days of Father-General Sorin, Fathers Corby, Cooney, Zahm, Morrissey, Fitte, Spil­lard, Stoffel, Kirsch and Regan among the clergy; and I give particu­lar mention to Father Thomas E. Walsh, the President in our time, whose special friendship for us boys was greatly appreciated; and among the laity Colonel Hoynes, Edwards, Lyons, Albert Zahm, Egan, the Ew­ings, Stace, Liscombe, Gregori, Stod­dard, and Feamley. The above were among those of my acquaintanceship. 
There was also somewhat of a gal­axy of special names among the brothers, whose names I •«ill not men­tion at this writing, and for whom there is a feeling of warm friendship. 
LOUIS P. CHUTE. 
1900 
1*00—J<din W. Ibgeman. Old First Bank BUdE.. Fort Wayne. Indiana. 
Judge JOHN EGGEMAN is going to be one of the principal speakers at the public testimonial dinner for Federal Judge Thomas W. Slick in South Bend on May 13. Another speaker will be TIM GALVIN, of Hammond, president of the Alumni 

May, 1935 The "No Ire 'J) a m c cA J u m n u a 253 
Association. The principal speaker will be former Senator JAMES E. WATSON, LL.D. '14. 
In a recent letter the Judge said in part: ".. . while in attendance at the funeral service of FATHER CAV­ANAUGH I ran into CHARLES FO­LEY of Chicago, who rode a bicycle for the track team in 1897 and 1898 and this is the first time that I had seen him since leaving school. I also had quite a visit at the time with FRANK and BILLY McNICHOLS of Chicago who were at Notre Dame along in 1897 to 1900. Frank was a member of the varsity baseball team and Billy was on the track team." 
1906 
1906—Thonuu A. Lilly. 811-13 Paulsen BldB.. 
Spokane, WuhinKton. 

Father GENE BURKE is the radio maestro of the campus in addition to being head of the English department and the generalissimo of all the lec­tures, entertainments and talkies in Washington Hall. In his "spare" time he is a good will ambassador to the far flung dominions, notably New York and New Jersey. For the past several months Father Gene has di­rected the production of three pro­grams a week from the campus stu­dios of WSBT-WFAM, the South Bend Tribune stations. The after­noon series, heard at 4:30 on Mon­days and Fridays, is devoted to dis­cussions by members of the faculty and the evening program, at 8:30 on Wednesday, is produced by students from Notre Dame and from St. Mary's. 
• 1912 
1912—B. J. Kaiser. 321 Fourth St.. PittsburKh. 
Ponnsylx-ania. 

JAY "BIFFY" LEE did a great job of giving a five minute talk over WEBR, Buffalo, on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
1915 
1915—James E. Sanford. 1033 S. Linden Ave., 
Highland Pai-k, Illinois. 

RAY EICHENLAUB, the able and energetic president of the Central Ohio Club, was on the campus with several of his family over the week­end of April 6 to confer with ART HALEY regarding the Ohio State game next Fall. 
1917 
1917—Edward J. HcOsker. 104 S. Union St.. Elsin, nilDoIs. 
Dr. LEO O'DONNELL, of Pitts­burgh, was a visitor on the campus and with the ELMER LAYDENS over the week-end of April 6. 
1918 
1918—John A. Lcmmer, 1110-8th Ave., S., Es­
canaba. Michigan. 

To one of the most loyal and best known members of the alumni group go the congratulations of the Univer­sity and the Association on his ap­pointment as superintendent of schools in Escanaba, Michigan. He is, of course, JOHN LEMMER, for­merly principal of the Escanaba High School. Because of his new duties John has been forced to give up his pleasant association as a member of the Education faculty in the Notre Dame summer session. 
1920 
1920—Leo B. Ward. 1912 Black Bide. Los 
Anffeles, California. 

RAY McGARRY, of Cleveland, who is a construction engineer on federal projects, was in Amarillo, Texas, for Universal Notre Dame Night and was a guest of honor at the broadcast which the local alumni put on over Station WDAG. 
• 

1922 
1922—Gerald Ashe, BuSalo Athletic dab. Buf­
falo, N. Y. 

AARON HUGENARD, of South Bend, president of the St. Joseph County bar association, is directing aiTangements for the public testimon­ial dinner on May 13 in honor of Federal Judge Thomas W. Slick of the Northern Indiana district court. GALLITZIN PARABAUGH, '04, and GEORGE BEAMER, '29, are mem­bers of the committee in charge. 
FRED DRESSEL, of South Bend, has been appointed supervising farm debt conciliator for the northern dis­trict of Indiana by Federal Judge Slick. As supervising conciliator, Fred will have charge of farm debt adjustment in 32 counties, each of them under a conciliation commis­sioner. Until his new appointment Fred was conciliator for St. Joseph Countj'. RUSSELL KUEHL, '29, has succeeded him in the St. Joseph County position. 
• 1923 
1923—Paul C^tner. White Motor Comp&ny. 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

FATHER FRANK CAVANAUGH did honor to St. Patrick with an ad­dress in Detroit on Sunday, March 
17. In the audience were FATHER HUGH O'DONNELL, '16, \-ice- pres­ident of the University, FATHER MIKE MORIARITY, '10, of Cleve­land, HOWARD HALEY, '24, and JOE MULHALL, '29. 
• 1924 
1924—James F. Hayes. Wm. J. Pcdrick & Co.. 
Empire State Bids., New York City. 
AL BOEHM of Chicago was mak­ing a campus hunt for several mem­bers of the Engineering faculty when he was here on Saturday, April 6. AI reported that Saturday is a bad day for such a search. 

GENE MAYL has annoonced a new legal association in Dayton; he is now a member of the firm of Mur­phy, Murphy & Mayl. One of the other members of the firm is JO­SEPH B. MURPHY, '11, president of the Dajrton Bar Association. Gene says "We will probably have to match to see who will attend the annual Commencements from now on." 
1925 
1925—John W. Scallan. Pullman Co., 79 E. 
Adams St.. Chicaco, HI. From JULIUS DANCH, the man­aging editor, the Alumni Office re­cently received a copy of the decided­ly impressive anniversary number of The Staple]/ Circle, the publication of the O. S. Stapley Company, with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. Julius is secretary of the Notre Dame club of Phoenix and one of its most ardent members. 
JOE FITZGERALD is the new mayor of Lockport, Illinois, following a heated election on April 16. Joe was one of the five candidates for the mayor's chair and beat out his closest rival by the exceedingly scant mar­gin of 16 votes. Lockport, in case you don't know, adjoins Joliet on the north and is only an hour's drive from Chicago. One could say that Joe will be glad to welcome Notre Dame alumni on their way to Joliet, but, in view of the big buildings with the high walls which are one of Jo­liet's claims to distinction, it would probably be more diplomatic to say that "Joe will be glad to welcome Notre Dame alumni." Period 
FRED WATSON, of Muncie, who played one of the leading roles in or­ganizing the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana, was a campus visitor on Sunday, May 5. 
1926 
192e—Dr. Gerald W. Hayc*. M N. Walnut St. 
East Oranse. N. J. 

FATHER KEITH ROCHE, of Can­ton, Illinois, accompanied by Father Louis O'Grady of Bloomington, Illi­nois, also an ardent Notre Dame sup­porter, was on the campus on March 4 for the last home basketball game of the season. They spent the night in Dillon Hall and a large portion of the next day visiting their friends around the University. The urgent necessity of returning to their respec­tive parishes for Ash Wednesday took them away eariy from a session of Spring football practice. 
JOE NAVARRE, looking strange 
in familiar surroundings ^\ithout his one-time roommate and bosom friend, EUSTACE CULLINAN, JR., visited the campus briefly on April 26 en-route from his home in Monroe, Mich­igan, to Gar}'. Joe promised that he will be back for Commencement this 
1927 
1927—Edmund DeQerq. 8118 Ellis Ave.. Chi­cago, niinois. LAWRENCE "DINK" HENNES­SEY was the chief orator on the oc­casion of the Universal Notre Dame Night broadcast from Station WQBC, Vicksburg, Mississippi, and, accord­ing to all reports came through beau­tifully in the w.k, Hennessey manner. 
JOHN BUTLER, Cleveland bar­rister, recently made one of his fre­quent ^^sits to the campus. 
"The Reverend JAJIES JOSEPH MORAN announces his Ordination to the Holy Priesthood, Tuesday, the twenty-third of April, nineteen hun­dred and thirt}'-five, St. John's Cathe­dral, Cleveland, Ohio, and cordially invites you to participate in his First Solemn Mass, Sunday, the twenty-eighth of April, at twelve o'clock, St. Ann's Church, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Reception, Sunday Evening, 2349 Coventry Road." Such is the of­ficial statement. Following his career as a student and boxer at Notre Dame, Jimmy finished in law at Western Reserve, Cleveland, and.then entered the Seminaiy in Cleveland. 
Just a few last minute words. 
Received a letter from PAUL BENITZ a couple of weeks ago and learned he is going strong in New York City. Judging from the tone of his letter, he's the same old pal I had for many a year before separation after graduation. We grew up to­gether you know. 
Was also surprised and pleased to hear from ART MONACO. -Art is in the real estate business in New Jer­sey, was married a few months ago, had a wonderful honeymoon and is now settled down. 
Had the pleasure of a brief visit JOHN GEARY last Sunday. Found him to be very much of a contented family man and doing nicely. 
. Hope to have more news next month. ED DeCLERCQ. 
ALBERT T. NANOVIC, formerly with the New Jersey Zinc Company, is now in the Cleveland office of the Imperial Color Works, Inc., of Glens Falls, N. Y., calling on customers in Ohio, western Pennsylvania, and West Virginia. 
The '^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
From Weston, West Virginia, via JERRY HAYES, spectacular staff correspondent for the class of '26, comes the following most welcome news from ANDY SLEIGH: 
The current ALUMNUS requesting the whereabouts of JIM McQUAIN prompts this letter from his moun­taineer neighbor. Have seen "Old Jim" several times in the last few years and he is just the same; living at Spencer, W. Va.; lost his father last summer; has been here in Weston veiy recently. The old fellow is fine and he hasn't lost one iota of the old ability to sit down and talk Notre Dame at the least provocation. You lucky gentlemen who are surrounded with a flock of former fellow students do not realize the predicament of us boys back here in the woods. It is a rare occasion when we see a former schoolmate this far back in what used to be God's woods, and no apologies to the reigning administration. Since I have come home to Weston in 1927, I have seen the following old friends here in my native enm-onment. 
JOHN MULDOON, JOE JACHYM, PUTT NEWMAN SLIM DONOVAN. FRANK WHELAN, JR., a cousin who lives here, GENE and TOM ED­WARDS, also local cousins, JIM MAL­LOY and BRUFF CLEARY, of Ft. Wayne. The inimitable ROME DUG­AN has thought enough of us to have come to visit t%vice. Next year's varsity quarterback, WALLY PROMHART has been a Weston resident for some time now and he, too, is quite a wel­come resident. 
I am working in a local bank and am the proud pater of a little family. We have two boys, .-indy, Jr. and Richard, and a Miss Mary Bergin Sleigh. Hope that you, JAKE PUR­CELL, BEN BOURNE, CHUCK MOONEY and all of my old friends are just as happy every day as we Sleighs are. We have about fourteen hours of "doing things" every day, and then away to sleep. Enough to eat and lots of luck, and what more can you expect? 
Have been back to Notre Dame twice since I graduated in 1927. Was out for the 1927 Minnesota-N. D. game, and back again in 1930, when FRANK WHELAN entered school. Was fortunate enough to get to see ROCK several times. 
Gee, Jerry, it's mighty lonesome down here in West Virginia when you have been mixed up with the fine bunch of fellows you went to school with and then don't see them for years at a time. Talk about the Ben­gal Missions, I think that the Associ­ation could do a lot by staging an ex­pedition into West Virginia. The same might not be very worth while to the Propagation of the Faith but it sure would fill the hearts of those mountaineers who have lived and loved, and then been sent into exile. 
May, 1935 
Well, Old Fellow, that's about all I know, except a change of address or two: GENE EDWARDS is now-living at Latrobe, Pa., c-o St. Vin­cent's College and TOM EDWARDS is living in Pikeville, Ky., where he is with the United Carbon Co. JOE BROUSSARD'S uncle, a Mr. Reed is connected with the same company. You might mention that I called CHUCK MOONEY on the phone one night but he was out and I think that he owes me a call whenever he gets ready. Have talked to JOHNNIE RYAN in Pittsburgh several times by phone. Also JOHN CAIN of Elkins, W. Va., Law, '27 or '28, is at the old home site and have seen him a time or two in the last few years. Rough country, this West Virginia, when you can't get 60 miles to see a schoolmate. 
Will be in Jersey some of these days, so look out. Mister. Love, luck and loads of lore ANDY SLEIGH. 
1928 
1928—Lonia Buckley. 718 E. Corby St. South Bend, Indiana. 
BOB EVANS, governor of District 13 of the Alumni Association, was the chief arranger for the Notre Dame program which went out over Station WQBC, Vicksburg, Mississip­pi, on Universal Night and he did a thoroughly good job. To him, the hearty thanks of the University and the Association. 

BERNIE ZIPPERER and his charming bride of a day honored the Alumni Office with a call on Tuesday, May 7 (See "Marriages"). They will be at home at 1168 East Broad Street, Columbus, Ohio, after May 22. 
• 1930 

1930—Beniard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., Mew Kensington. Pa. 
ROBERT L. BRAUNSDORF and EDW.\RD F. DRAVES, '31, -ivill be among this year's medical graduates from the University of Michigan. Both are South Bend boys. 
JERRY PARKER, a Glee Club executive in his campus days, is now devoting his talents to a familiar Notre Dame spot, the Centre Club, 120 Central Park South, New York City, where, effective May 1, he has been appointed executive secretary. In his new capacity Jerry will direct the activities of the association. 
FRANK LANGRILL, according to a recent note from him, is manager of the drug department in the LAUERMAN department store in Marinette, Wisconsin. Another good 
N.D. tie-up! 
TOM CANNON, Muncie attorney, president of the new Eastern Indiana Club, was up to Notre Dame for the week-end of May 4 and, with FRED May, 1935 
WATSON, added his smiling presence to the Spring football game. 
Prom the interest the fellows are showing in our plans for the class re­union it looks like the event will be a real success. 
LEO McALOON, president of the Rhode Island Alumni club, wrote that he intends to be hand for the re­union. He is going to pick up GENE MAHONEY at Jamestown, N. Y. and any others that may want a lift are welcome to get in touch with him. Can you imagine HOWIE SMITH and Gene Mahoney rooming together again? By the way, McAloon is an energetic funeral director at Paw­tucket. He hopes to talk shop with JIM SULLIVAN at the reunion. 
MARIO NARODONE, '30, is prac­ticing law at Westerly, R. I., and VIN DOYLE is a consulting engineer at the U. S. Finishing Company in Paw­tucket. JOHN BROWN, '31, of Cen­tral Falls, recently took a position with the government in Washington, 
D. C. He is an architectural engi­neer. 
- CON CAREY will travel from Sai-anac Lake to Notre Dame for the reunion. His route will take him through Buffalo and Erie and anyone seeking transportation should get in touch with him immediately. 
Word comes from Dubuque, Iowa, that Attorney JOHN J. NELSON will be on the campus on May 31, June 1 and 2. John reports that his classmate CY NOLAN is very busy practicing law in Davenport, but when last seen Cy was consulting with a charming young lady in front of one of Davenport's leading fur­niture stores. 
HARRY O'BOYLE is working for the N.R.A. in Des Moines and hoped to see a lot of the fellows at the Drake Relays this month. 
Dr. JOHN SIMONES, '29, is now interning in La Crosse, Wisconsin, while LOUIE RHOMBERG, '31, is in the brewing business in Dubuque. Sti-ange as it may seem Louie is tak­ing off some excess weight. 
JOHN "BUTCH" NIEanC is build­ing a fine reputation for himself at Columbia College and expects better things next season. 
JOHN L. DUFFY, '24, took office as county attorney in Dubuque on the fii-st of this year, and his assistant is ED TSCHUDI, '23. 
Nelson hopes to have a session with JACK FLANAGAN, SCOTTIE MAC­DOUGAL, TOM O'NEIL and others at the reunion. 
I saw JOHNN RONEY in Pitts­burgh today. He is located with the Automatic Canteen Company and is getting along fine. John expects to be at the reunion and you can count on ED NEBEL, JIM DODSON, 
The Wolre 1) a m e cA I u m n u s 
HUGH GALLAGHER, BILL STEITZ and DICK O'TOOLE to be there, too. BERNIE CONROY. 
Early returns received as we went to press indicate that members of the class of '30 will be back on the cam­pus in large numbers for their five year reunion May 31, June 1 and 2. 
GUS BONDI, chairman of the South Bend-Mishawaka-Niles commit­tee in charge of arrangements, re­ported that plans are complete for a grand week-end, beginning on Fri­day evening with a stag party ex­clusivelv for members of the class of '30. 
Announcement of the affair was made by mail to class members who could be reached but details were promised in this issue of the ALUM­NUS. The Friday night party will be held in the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle, South Bend, beginning about 9 o'clock, central daylight saving time. Entertainment and refreshments will be offered in abundance. It will be the one big opportunity for the boys of '30 to get together once more. 
Class members are urged by Gus to send in their reservation cai'ds to him at 644 East Monroe St., South Bend, as soon as possible. So far the following men have notified him of their intention to be on hand for the reunion: 
Apodnca, Joe Kmiecik, Rev. Joseph Aman, Andrew Langford, Walter M. Augusovitz, Ralph Lawler, Thos. G. 
Barry. David Leahey, Thomas F. 
Beljon, John Laszlo. Arthur 
Bondi. August L. Lind. Robert W. 
Busscher, Harry Lennon, Charles 
Butler, Joe Lensing, F. W. Cannon. John Lillig, F. N. 
Cohen, Herman McAloon, Leo 
Chapleau, Louis McCarthy. J. E. 
Conroy, Bernic Mahoney. Gene 
Conway, Patrick Martzell, V. J. 
Cronin, Larry Moran, John 
DeWitt. Charles Medland, Thomas G. 
Dore, William Moore, Carl C. 
Dodson, James Parent, Fred 
Doyle, George Jr. Petersen. Arthur 
Draves, Harr>' Plunkett, Devere DriscoU, Frank Purcell. Tom 
Eaton, Frank Reedy, J. B. 
Eggeman, Boh Reidy. Jerry 
Esola, Chas. J. Rigney, Jim 
Francis, Harry H. Rocap, John T. 
Goggins. Pat, Jr. Roney, John 
Golden, John D. Ruppe. Joseph 
Gallagher, Arthur J. Sown, Frank S. 
Gihbons, John Steitz, William Gilden. Austin Staudt, Zeno 
Green, Stephen Shipacasse, Albert 
Hasley, Lou Smith, Edward B. 
Heidkamp, Paul Sullivan, James 
Horka, Henry Scanlon, Wm., C.S.G. 
Houlihan, John Sherman, Wm. 
Irwin. James South. Ben J. 
Keegan. Tom Trombley. Malcolm 
Kizer, Marshal] Weber, George T. 
BULLETIN 

The returning men of '30 will be housed in Dillon Hall on the campus, according to an announcement just made by the University Commence­ment Committee. Right next to the Dining Hall, close to the golf course and provided with ample parking space at its back door, Dillon is ideal for the purpose. You can register in the hall and be assigned to a room immediately upon your arrival. 
A final thought: pass along the word about the reunion to every '30 man you meet, whether he received a degree of not. We made a sincere effort to send a letter to everybody in the class, but inevitably there were some for whom we didn't have any recent address or for whom our ad­dress was wrong. It goes without saying that everybody without excep­tion who was at any time a member of the class of '30 is invited to the class reunion. 
If you haven't returned the card that went out with your letter, please do so at once. Even if yon can't come back yourself we'd like to read your message to the gang at the big celebration. 
GUS BONDL 

1931 
1931—Jobn E. Boland, 1402 Linden St. 
Scranton. Pa. 
GEORGE JACKOBOICE, of Grand , Rapids, European traveler de luxe, visited with DOCTOR COONEY for a few minutes when George paid the campus a brief call on April 17. 
The informal four year reunion of the class of '31 will be held on Fri­day evening. May 31, at the Maroon Club in South Bend. Some of its sponsors are: BERT MALONEY, JERRY CROWLEY, ED MURRAY and a few other local satellites. So all '31ers coming back are urged to present arms at appointed place some time before 2 A. M. (as all Indiana clubs close at 1). Adequate enter­tainment and favors are promised all. JOE LAUERMAN, the Marinette knitting king; AUSTIN BOYLE, the Greeley of the South; BILL CHAW­GO, Aurora insurance broker and financier; Dr. ED DRAVES, Michigan med grad of '35; RED McVEAN Rochester under-sheriff; FRANK Mc-GREAL, Chicago barrister; JACK VAN DIKE, Broadway tycoon; BILL LAHEY, Chicago tax expert; BILL KERRIGAN, Windy City policeman; JACK DEMPSEY, Oshkosh trunk merchant and EMIL TELFEL, Wis­consin educators, are a few of the boys who have agreed to lend their pres­ence to a real galaxy of cosmopoli­tans at the four year reunion. So the others surely must attempt to be here. 
BOB NEYDON has recently joined the export division of Chryslers' and tells me that BILL KARL is also in Detroit with Continental Motors; RUSS BEAUPRE is with Ford; JOHNNY ZUBER is with a Detroit finance company. MIKE KINNEY is holding down one of the major jobs with the Illinois Highway at Spring­field and recently played host to LARRY MULLINS while in his'town. By the way. Moon's St. Benedict's College football team is meeting St. Viator's in a m'ght football game in 
Chicago next fall. His basketball team will play Notre Dame on De­cember 12 next season. BILLY SUL­LIVAN has recently joined the Cin­cinnati Reds and bids fair to be reg­ular with that team soon. VERN KNOX is going along fine in his law practice in Crj'stal Lake. TOM MON­AHAN is back at Areola again hus­tling broom com; JBI KEARNEY is working in Washington for the Gov­ernment; PAUL GRANT is with the Utmties Gas Co., TED LEE is going along fine in the accounting depart­ment of the -A_ and P. and has re­cently announced his engagement. GEORGE WASSIL is completing his medical course at Northwestern this year. JACK BOLAND is very busy in the legal department of the HOLC in Philadelphia. CHARLIE KOVACS, South Bend city water works attor­ney, has named June 1 as the day he falls into line as a proud man of the family. CLARENCE FUTTER of Mishawaka was married the first week in May, 
JOHN BERGAN. 
1932 
1932—Herbert Giorcio. 9005 ISSth St.. Hollii. 
L. L. N. Y. 
A beautiful spring morning such as this is reminds me of the beautiful month of April at Notre Dame with the incessant rain and muddy paths and buns, buns, buns. 
This June we will be out three years and I know that many of the boys are looking forward to our re­union which is in the offing. Due to the fact that I don't hear from many of the boys, my dissertation will be, in the main, a rehashing of what I have already related. 

I am informed that ED O'CON­NOR of Westbury, L. I., is the proud daddy of a baby girl, as of last June. I would like to file this report, nunc pro tunc. GENE CONNELLY and WILLIE WILLIGAN are still work­ing for the American Can Company. DREW SHIEBLER may be seen in and about the county clerk's office in Manhattan and at the Centre Club at Central Park, South. WILLIE WEIR is working for an attorney in lower Manhattan and so is TOM GATELY. LEO M'LAUGHLIN is in the same building with Tom Gately. SAL BONTEMPO is still doing quite well in Newark. If true, I know this information will be quite interesting 
to almost everyone of the class,— JOHN PERONE is reported to be married. FLO M'C.ARTHY, FRED SNITE and GENE CALHOUN seem to have adopted New York for their permanent home. Mac informed me that he is to be married this June. IKE TERRY, of Baraboo, is working on a Federal project but I have no word from his friend, ANDY M'­GUAN. BILL KIRBY is doing well at the HUnois bar as are GEORGE 
HIGGINS and WALT KIOLBASA 
and others. LEO SCHIAVONE is one 
of the others. KEMPTER and NEL­
SON are both admitted to the Iowa 
bar. ED MELCHIOITO and RAY 
FOX are still playing handball and 
golf. I am not sure whether one, 
both or either of the OELERICHS 
are married. Fran and Dick, please 
take notice. JACK GEDDES is be­
ciomng the Barney M. Baruch of 
State Street.. RED JACKSON is at 
Long Island Medical College with 
GEORGE SELINGER. BILL STA­
TER is still living in Forest Hills, 
which village your correspondent has 
"occasion" to visit. BILL DARROW 
is still the reformer that he always 
was. JOE M'KEON down in Alexan­
dria, Louisiana, is a staunch admirer 
of the Louisiana Kingfish. If this be 
untrue Joe, and I think it is, write 
and teU me about it. NICK KALMES 
is married and living in Rockaway. 
After all the Speech courses taken 
by SMOKY COYNE and after the 
pei"sonal supervision he received from 

the good professor (shifting the scen­
erj' on and backstage) I am expecting 

to see Smoky, the consummate actor, 
headlining in a Broadway production, 
perhaps as Macbeth, Shylock or the 
like. TONNY GIUFFRE and AL 
WATERS are teaching in New Jersey 
schools. JHM GLEASON has not for­
saken Menominee and reports that 
everj'thing is under control. 
Of approximately five hundred 

classmates, I am able to report only 
of a few. I see no reason why each 
and everyone of you can't drop me a 
penny postcard and tell me what you 
are doing. Until I hear from all of 
vou, I am 
HERBERT P. GIORGIO. 

GERRY KLEIN deserted Akron for one week-end and brought Bob Clements, of Massillon over to Notre Dame for a close-up of the campus. Bob \vHl be a Freshman here next year. 
PETE TROLIO included the fol­lowing when he sent in his dues re­cently from Canton, Mississippi: 
If it may interest the alumni AN­GELO LUCKETT, '32, of Canton, was married last summer. He is coaching in south central Mississippi. 
BRYAN MacGERRY, e-x. '34, of Winona, is at school, (business, I be­lieve). 
BILL MILLER, '30, of Vicksburg, was married to Catherine Jones (St. Marj-'s-of-the-Woods), C. D. JONES', '32, sister. 
PAT BURNS, '33, and HERBERT PERRY, '30, of Natchez, have good positions in the home town. Didn't get to see them at the Natchez Pil­grimage this year. 
C. D. JONES, '32, is at Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas, Drop him a line. 

As for myself—I am with the Fed­
eral Housing as an architect in­

spector. 
PETE TROLIO, '32 

1933 
I93S—Donzld Wise, 1246 Hillcrest Road, South Bend. lod. 
GEORGE BOLGER writes from Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, where he is with the Lock City Motor Com­pany. He says: "FRANCIS ANDARY, ex. '32, is attending Georgetown Uni­versity, taking foreign commerce. NED FENLON is doing fine work as a state congressman." 
EMMETT MURPHY, who has been assisting ED KR.AUSE up at St. Mary's College, Winona, Minnesota, has been appointed head coach at De La Salle Institute, Chicago, according to an announcement made by Brother Basil, F.S.C, director of the school. In addition to coaching at De La Salle, Emmett will be in charge of the Department of Economics and Politics. 
RUSSELL O'SHEA, who came back to Notre Dame in February to finish up his work with the class of '35, re­ports a recent visit in Chicago with JOHN MURRAY who is in the execu­tive offices of Sears, Roebuck & Co. and progressing famously. 
NORDY HOFFMANN will be as­sistant to AL GEBERT, director of athletics at the University of Wichita, beginning next July 1, according to a recent announcement by Dr. W. M. Jardine, president of Wichita. 
A note from JIM GEREND, '33, brings word that he is now working in the General Offices of the C. Reiss Coal Company, in Sheboygan. . . . "From early January up to last week I was employed at the Reiss Co. of­fice in Superior, Wisconsin which you probably know is noted for its Alas­kan type of winter, and of which I came out of none the worse for the experience. I got to see several 
N. D. boys in that region occasionally —PAUL "BUD" LYONS, who was a freshman in '21-'32. Paul lives in Superior and is with the Superior Typewriter Company,—also EDDIE SUECH across the bay in Duluth; Eddie had a very successful year as coach of football and basketball at Duluth Cathedral High School. He put out champ teams in both lines and took his basketball team to Chi­cago to play in the Loyola Tourna­ment several weeks ago. But the com­petition for them was a bit too great. Was out with ROGER HEALY, '33, up there too. Roger is with a large real estate company of Duluth. The last I heard was that he was in Clo­quet, Minnesota, where he recentiy opened a branch for the concern. 
As for another member of the fam­

ily who was at Notre Dame, my brother, RAY, '31-'33, is at present learning the fundamentals of under­taking. He's attending the Worsham College of Embalming in Chicago. There in the West Side Professional Schools District he sees an occasional Notre Dame "as was." 
I expect to get down to N. D. for Commencement, if at all possible." 
1934 
1934—James Moscow. 2320 N. Lawndale Ave.. 
Chicaeo, HI. I am now a firm believer in that maxim that "one always profits from his mistakes." In the February ALUM­XUS JIM MORRISON, '34, had been reported as being in the realty busi­ness. Greatly astonished to learn of his avocation, he promptly put me right as to his chosen career. Jim is working for Murphy, Lanier, and Quinn, a Chicago firm of accountants and tax consultants, as a junior ac­countant. But he did not stop there with this information concerning himself. Following are the "profits" gleaned from Jim: 
GEORGE MENARD has forsaken the Iowa cornfields for Chicago where he is working for the Standard Oil Co. and singing regularly over WCFL. 
ED HOLMAN has ti-ansferred the scene of his activities to Washburn College, Kansas. His erstwhile room­mate BILL ROCKENSTEIN is study­ing law at Pittsburgh, but assures us that he will be in the Irish cheering section when we meet the Panthers next fall. 
JACK HAGAN, of Youngstown, Ohio, is working for the Republic Iron and Steel Co. and what's more is completely wrapped up in his work. 
BUD KRAMER is employed in the organization of Dun and Bradstreet. VINCE McCANNEY does his daily with the Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad, and DAVE WALSH has moved up from Springfield to be of semce to Arthur Young and Co., ac­countants. 
We will all agree that it would be a very colorless class that could not boast of at least one adventurer and globe-trotter. FRAN K WIDGER saves the class of '34 in this respect. Last heard of, Frank was visiting AUG VON BOECKLIN in Tacoma. The latter, we understand, is in the lumbering business. 
HOWARD "TIGER" WALDRON writes from New Jersey that he has some bits about 'em along the Eastern seaboard. Howie himself is following his chosen profession as a sports­writer for the Bergen Evening-Record in Hackensack. In case you have never heard of "the one newspaper covering the richest per capita count>­in New Jersey" ask Howie. It's Bergen's Only Daily. 
Among our informer's press asso­ciates are CHARLEY HECKLEMAN, class valedictorian, who covers sports for the Brooklyn Eagle and BILL MURPHY with the circulation de­partment of the New York Sim. 
ED FARLEY is working in Quack-enbush's Department store in Pater­son while HECTOR MARIANI, JOE PrVARNIK, and JIM PAGAN are all following legal tendencies. Hector at N.Y.U., Joe at Catholic U., and Jim at the New Jersey Law School in Newark. 
Wait until you hear this one! ED "HUEY" SPORL is on a banana plantation in the wilds of Honduras, Central America in the employ of the United Fruit Company. MINNIE SPORL is aiding his father's marine insurance company in New Orleans. Howie winds up by telling us that CHARLEY HUISKING has been formed out by the New York Giants and is winging them down for the Nashville Volunteers ball club in Tallahassee. 
JIM MOSCOW. 

MIKE WIEDL conveyed the fol­lowing dirt to Publicitor JOE PE­TRITZ in a recent letter: 
At present, and since the first of January, I have been editing the Squirrel Hill News here in Pitts­burgh. I have complete direction of the editorial end, heads, news, editori­als, make-up, and everything that goes with it. 
Saw JOE BACH for a few mo­ments the other evening. Incidental­ly, Joe and I are almost neighbors here in Squirrel Hill, a section of the city. Joe informed me that he has been on the jump coaching the Tech line in spring football and is getting back into shape again. 
JOE BREIG, who edited The Scho­lastic while attending Notre Dame, is now with the Pittsburgh Sun-Tele­graph. Joe is rated as the best re­write man they have on the paper. I believe he has been there for about two months now. Before joining up 
•iviththe Sun-Telegraph he edited the Vandergrift Netvs, my home town sheet, for some six years. 
VINCE SWEENEY has been writ­ing all the Press stories on the An­drew Mellon trial. The papers in the west liked the stories Vin put out so well that they wired the U. P. to send all they could on them. Vin is also doing well on the financial end of the Press. 
DICK O'DONNELL had put out some fine stories on the court trials he has covered for the Sun-Telegraph. His front stories were writing headlines all over the front page for a month or more. 
MICHAEL WIEDL, '34. 

Recent word from the Western World is that KENNETH KENNEDY is teaching in Omaha. 
Dear Jim: 
I've been on a little vacation in so-called Sunny California and have seen so many Notre Dame men that perhaps you would like to hear of them. 
In San Diego, which is getting all hopped over their International Ex­position, I saw JIMMIE O'TOOLE, '29. Jimmie is now the manager of the Plaza Theatre. Also saw "BUD" DA VIES, who was only back there the year of '26. Met a classmate of Rock's, Mr. FRANK HAYES, now living on a ranch at EI Cajon, Cali­fornia. 
In Los Angeles, saw CHARLIE GASS, '30, former business manager of the Juggler, now a rising success­ful lawyer. Listened to Judge AL SCOTT, '22, try a gambling case very handily, and saw ED CUNNINGHAM, '28, now a funeral director. So if you think you might need him, I'm sure he'd take good care of you! 
M.A.NNY VEZIE. '31, took RUSS BEACHLER, ex. '28, now with Tony Sarg's Marionette show, their wives, and me to Universal Studio to see movies in the making. Manny is do­ing very well with his coaching and quite enthusiastic over his summer camp, a verj- beautiful place in the High Sierras. Any alumni desiring to send their boys to camp please note. 
JIMMIE NAVARRE, ex. '29, from Grand Rapids, is manager of a de­partment in Sears-Roebuck, and is the proud father of a two-year old daughter. 
DICK MULLEN, '34, is also work­ing in Los Angeles and wants to be remembered to you. 
Who do you think I ran into in Las Vegas, Nevada, all dressed up for Helldorado Week? None other than ED HEISER, '23, cousin of Fathers Leo and Allan Heiser. He looked quite western in boots, neckerchief, and 10 gallon Stetson. 
Happened to be in Salt Lake City for Universal Notre Dame Night, and observed it with the Salt Lake City Notre Dame Club, a small but fine group of fellows, and very active. RAY BRADY, CY HARBECKE, OTTO ENKING, WALT BEESLBY, now holding down the sports desk of the Salt Lake Tribune, J. M. BRADY, honorary member, Judge ROGERS McDONOUGH, classmate of Father BOLAND, and JOHN CAPITOLO. All elected themselves to one oflice or another without a dissenting voice. 
LESTER CARRIG, '28, is in Co­lumbus, Nebraska, selling insurance. BOB KELLEY. 
© 1935. LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. 









