The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
S!Siaf^»ioasa><»«B»J''^i'in>'r'nTsjai»iBai>a.HW»BgntviiWUipiiMiiii,iB«iiiiii>i MUBBaB—w.mwiiinwiiuwij.i." "'^"i " iI>P^—-«'^»»i>"»' 
.v.^ 


This book is not t<rb« taken from the Lib] rtj 
•/ v 

Notre Dame Alum 
DECEMBER, 19 
i^> 


^m^^m ^ 
W^: 

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
CCMMENT 
What would YOU comment about? 
The w^orst of it is, so little is left to be said. 
That 13-12 is so eloquent of ever}'­thing that Notre Dame football has ever stood for that you can see in it the lEchigan goal post, Dorais-to-Eockne, Gipp, the Four Horsemen, the 13-10 Northwestem-N. D. classic of '25, Pai-isien, O'Brien, Elder, Schwartz, and all of the other heroes of the headlines who have happened to be the tool for a time of a destiny that seemed particularly Notre D.^.me's. 
You see in it the justification of the faith that has kept alive the bril­liant spark that is Notre Dame spirit, through times which have tried the uninitiated. 
You see in it the unquenchable flame that has been, as it will con­tinue to be, the beacon for boys who will not be beaten. 
You see in it one of those links which have so frequently been forged in the fire of adversity to form the gi-owing chain of Notre Dame ti-aditions, a shackle of senti­ment which holds Notre Dame men and the friends of Notre Dame in such pleasant bondage. 
The following have been blamed for the defeats of 1933 — Harper, Anderson, the sophomores on the team, the seniors on the team (who nominates the juniors?), the present generation of softies, the new Dining Halls, the students, the alumni, the faculty (the ALUMNUS is tempted to subscribe to this latter theory, feeling, from academic results this year, that classes are being made en­tirely too attractive and that the curse of scholarship is resting upon the hitherto allegedly simple ath­letic fraternity), the natives of South Bend (if such be defined to include Bearskin and the Old Growler), 3.2, blondes, the weather, the Notre Dame system a la Frankenstein, and as many variations of causes as there have been commentators. 

An eleven-man jui-y composed of the flower of our country's young manhood having acquitted the Notre Danie team of all charges in its final appeal on the afternoon of Dec. 2 in the court of the Yankee Stadium, City and State of New York, much of the blame attached to the above agents was thereby dis­pelled, to the lasting progress of whatever remedies may be definitely employed to prevent a relapse in 1934. 
To mention something that should have been mentioned earlier in the football season, if you want to settle back and enjoy a fictionized mirror of many of the famous episodes in 
" Notre Dame football history, thought­fully sci-ambled, read Harry Sylves­ter's "Big Football Man,"a title which Hariy disclaims, but which nevertheless is the key to securing a copy from Farrar & Rinehart. .It has a lot more of the frank conversa­tion of the men-are-men school of wTiting than the Ave Maria stj'le­book permits, but it is generally used to illustrate a point where common sense would agree with Harry that the Merriwell school of expression would lead the reader astray. The book reveals the author as an able follower in the literary football field so well pioneered by Fi-ank Wallace, '23. Columbia is one of the mediums frequently graced by short stories by the author of "Big Football Man." 
The ALUMNUS cannot avoid sug­gesting that the patience of the alumni and their consideration for Notre Dame and for the the coaching staff was both justified and rewarded in the Army game. The University and "Hunk" have appreciated this spirit throughout the season. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
jAiiEs E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. AH correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box Sl.^Notre Dame, Indiana. 
JlElIBER OP THE AMERICAN ALUMNI 'COUNCIL 
JlEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUSIN I FEDERATION 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
i • 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JA-MES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
BYRON V. KANALEY, '04 ----- Honorary President 
M. HARRY MILLER, 'lo -------- President FRANK C. WALKER, '09 First Vice-President ARTHUR E . CARMODY, '15 ----- Second Vice-President JOHN F. O'CON.VELL, '13-------- Director ROBERT E. LYNCH, '03----:---- Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94-------- Director FRED L. STEERS, 'il --------- Director FRANCIS A. WERNER, '33 -----(one year) Director CLARENCE MANION, '22 -----(ex officio) Director 



ATHLETICS 
=By JOSEPH PETRITZ= 

Greatest Notre Dame Victory Closes Season Of Upsets 
For the benefit of those many alumni who do not have access to the New York papers, we wish to state in the strongest words at our com­mand, along with the 1933 football record which must be printed here for posterity, that Notre Dame at the end of 1933 was still a climax team. 
The details of the 1933 Army game are vivid in our mind, as they will always remain, but it is necessary to go through the season to get the proper background for the grandest football picture these eyes have ever seen. It was a picture painted on the green of the Yankee Stadiimi Dec. 2 by as stout-hearted a group and as harmonious a group of Notre Dame men as we have seen in our six brief years at the old alma mater. 
Kansas had taken this inexper­ienced team in its opening game and played it to a scoreless tie. It is an actual fact that Coach "Hunk" An­derson used five quarterbacks and made numerous other substitutions, sending all of them in with instruc­tions which, believe it or not, most of them promptly forgot. Each man he sent in had three signals to call. Of the five quarterbacks, three called the first play, two called the first and second, and none called the third. One called the same play three times for a net loss of some 35 yards. 
If that were stage fright, the fol-. lowing incident is an even more pot­ent example, for it cost the Irish their game with Carnegie Tech, after Nick Lukats and Don Elser had scored enough points to win from Indiana, 12 to 2. 
The Carnegie Tech game provided one of the most unusual plays of the season. After the Irish receiver had fumbled the opening kickoff, a soph­omore Notre Dame back allowed the Skibos to score right through him when he knew what play was coming, saw his man come out, knew his as­signment, and merely found himself frozen to the ground, scared to death for some reason unknown to himself or anyone else, except stage fright. His man Lib Lewis, at any rate, came out of the line at right end, streaked down the middle of the field, turned and took a pass from Angelo Beve­vino for the only touchdow-n of the game. 
The Pittsburgh game a week later saw a senior back "go dumb," as the saying in football circles goes. It 
1933 Record 

Oct. 7—Kansas 0; Notre Dame 0. Oct. 14—Indiana 2; Notre Dame 12. Oct 21—Carnegie 7; Notre Dame 0. Oct. 28 —Pitt. 14; Notre Dame 0. Nov. 4 — Navy 7; Notre Dame 0. Nov 11—Purdue 19; Notre Dame 0. Nov 18—Northw. 0; Notre Dame 7. Nov. 2.5—So Cal 19; Notre Dame 0. Dec. 2 — Army 12; Notre Dame 13. Totals: 0pp. 80; Notre Dame 32. 
was a quick-kick situation, third down and ten to go on Pitt's 20-yard line, with Notre Dame on defense. The back called for a short diamond de­fense, so that one man would be back to chase the kick and return it. But he decided too late. He had just called the play and had turned to go back, while the other players were starting into their defensive positions, when Mike Sebastian came tearing through a gaping hole in the center of the Irish line and past the second­ary before the boys even knew the play was under way. It was a 75­yard run and a touchdown. An Irish fumble shortly later paved the way for a long Pitt pass which resulted indirectly in a second touchdown for Pitt. 
Navy, with one of its strongest teams in recent years, was pushed and passed slightly fewer than 400 yards over the turf of Baltimore sta­dium, but a fumble, followed by a suc­cessful pass and an end run gave the Middies the touchdown they needed to give Notre Dame its third consec­utive loss of the season, 7 to 0. Notre Dame threw scoring passes away, fumbled deep in Navy territory, and made other mechanical and mental mistakes which should have been suf­ficient to last them all season. 
The following week they stood off Purdue's previously undefeated team, making as many yards and more first downs, but succumbed to their own errors again. Nick Lukats threw a pass to Fritz Febel, a Purdue guard, for a touchdown and was roundly censured. He knew he was trapped for a 10-yard loss, he saw an Irish back in the clear ahead of him, and! he took a fairly safe chance of re­deeming the blocking failure of his mates which had left him stranded back there. Febel came in from no­where, took the ball on the dead run and scored. The other two Purdue touchdowns came when long passes sailed over the heads of the Irish secondary into the waiting arms of Boilermaker receivers. 
You'd think that a team would be discouraged at this point and ready to succumb to a Northwestern team which had fumbled itself out of any title hopes after standing off Stan­ford in a tie game. But the fates fin­ally smiled on Notre Dame up at Evanston, Three Chicago boys got the same idea at the same time:-;Ed Krause blocked a Northwestern' piint, Kitty Gorman recovered it on the 11­yard line, and Andy Pilney ran it over for the only touchdown. And then did Notre Dame rise to the heights of defensive play! Northwest-em made only one first down during the entire game to Notre Dame's 12. 
The experienced, talented, Inspired sons of Troy turned in another South-em California victory the next week at South Bend. Playing against a terrific gale, Notre Dame outplayed Howard Jones's team during the first quarter. Then Big Don Elser was hurt. He left the game. Irvine (Cot­ton) Warburton entered for Troy, and very shortly afterwards he en­gineered two scoring marches for himself, the result of constant driv­ing off of Notre Dame's left tackle by said Warburton, led by Aaron Rosenberg, the best guard in the country, Capt. Ford Palmer, one of the best right ends, and several other big fast Coast stars. Homer Griffith, a fine quarterback, made the other score when he fooled the Irish secon­dary with a flat zone pass and trotted over the goal line unmolested. 
And that is the background. Out­played only by Pittsburgh and South-em Califomia, Notre Dame had lost five games and tied one, winning only two. They went East to play an .A.rmy team which had gone through nme games without a defeat or a tie. Army had already received feelers on a Rose Bowl bid, Notre Dame had gone through an ine-xplicable series of discouraging breaks from start to finish. But the spirit of these Irish lads never flagged. They had gone into every previous game with the idea of ^vinning. They had played winning football, with the exception 
(Continocil on Page 86) 



"THE ASSOCIATE BOARD OF LAV TRUSTEES" » : » » » » 
(See story on Page SI) 

"The Aitsoeiatc Board of Lay Trustees, organized in the Fall of lOSO, is charged icith the responsibility of holdingt investing, and administer­inj the endjicmmt funds of the University. . ." 
This brief statcutfiit in the University Catalogue does not tell of the thirteen years of sacrifice of personal interests by the mm who have comprised the Board. It does not indicate the brilliance of their unremuncrated conduct of the trust imposed, to the stability and progress of the University they served. It docs not reflect the gifts and bequests from members of this Board as c result of their close study of the problems and needs of tlic Univcrifity — totalling almost as much as the funds they were enlisted to administer. The Edward N. Hurley College of Cotnntcrcc; the John F, Cttshing JJall of Engineering; the William P. Brcvn bequest; the Matthew Carney Scholarships; the Leonard Anson Scholarships; annual prizes, for graduates, bearing the jtames of .A. R. Erskine, Byron Kanalcy, Miles O'Brien^ Frank Hcring—prizes which in varying fields stir tJtc interests of nndcrgradiiates most gratifyingly; the most recent manifestation — the $S5,000 scholarship fund in the will of the late E. N. Hurley. And t/icrfc brqucsts and gifts arc but the publicized evidences of a unanimous spirit of loyalty and support in t/ic financial problems of Notre Dame which has pervaded tJie Board during its short but crowded thirteen years — among those men who, without tJie ties of attendance, have joined as ivillinoly and eagerly in the sacrifices which the honor involves, as have the splendid men who have represented the Alumni Asso­ciation in the work. 
The Board at it Xovember. 1933, meeting left to riEht: Very Rev. Jam?s A. Bums. C.S.C., *8S; Rev. John F. O'Hara. C.S.C.. '11: Frank 
E. Herinfr, '08; Frank \V. Lloyd; Fred J. Fisher; James J. Phelan, and Byron V. Kanaley, '01; standin;r—Miles "W. O'Brien; Matthew J. Carney; Brother Ephrem. CS-C, M.A.. '24; Frank C. Walker, '09; Georjie M. AnsDn. '95; Warren A. Cartier. '87; John P. Mun>hy. '12; John F. Cush­ins, '06; Edward J. Doyle, and C. Roy McCanna. Angus D. McDonald. '00. is the only member of the Board not in this picture. (A portrait of Rev. Andrew Morrisst-y. former president, and Gropori's portrait of Pius IX can be seen behind the Board.) 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XII December, 1933. No. 3 
Alumni Association To Aid N. D. And Catholic Education 
Program Launched by Board Will Bring: Best Prep Students in Contact With Notre Dame through Alumni; Work Will Promote Catholic Education Generally 
A program of contacts, in which the Alumni Association will serve as a clearing-house bebveen the Univer­sity on the one hand and preparatory schools and individual students and parents on the other, is announced by the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association as a result of two November meetings on the cam­pus. 
The progi-am is to be under the uirection of the Board through the Alumni Office and the present Alum­ni Secretarj'. It has the sanction and co-operation of the University and comes as the answer to a need whose gi-owth has been felt and expressed by both Notre Dame and the hun­dreds of high schools from which the University draws its students. 
."llumni and Alumni Clubs have been consulted in the formation of the program. The Board feels that it serves an invaluable purpose in strengthening the organization of the Association through the satisfaction that comes from successful service. 
During the financial stress of the last four years, alumni have been ob­viously and admittedly handicapped in anything bordering upon help for Notre Dame of a monetarj' nature. ' It is equally true that, without ex­ception, the Classes of these last years, and those already out, have held and increased their loyalty to the University in the general adver­sity. 
Experiments on a small scale last year proved that the alumni can ren­der the most valuable service in bringing together the parents, the students and the preparatory school agencies that desire knowledge of Notre Dame, and those Notre Dame agencies which can bring them this knowledge. Priceless as this service is to both parties, the alumni them­selves have little, if any, financial obligation involved in the arrange­ments. The plan, the Board feels, has special merit for alumni at this time through this absence of cost. 
Too, it has a positive financial benefit to the University, equal to endowment that would be improb­able even under much more favor­able conditions. Notre Dame, with less piincipal endoxoment than, to take one example, Princeton, has an­imal income from endowment, de­rives its main source of upkeep and progress from the relatively com­plete utilization of its educational facilities. Sending students, under these conditions, is equivalent to contributing large endowment funds, by which many of our contemporar­ies are enabled to operate. 
The number of px-ospects for col­lege today is narrowed by economic conditions. The competition for them is increasing. 
These are, in brief, the practical considerations which have caused the Board to launch the program at this time. It has many ramifications of a more permanent and ideal charac­ter which will become evident, the Board is confident, as its functions progress. 
It should interest the highest type of student from both Catholic and non-Catholic schools. It should in­terest them in such numbers that the University can exercise a selec­tion, which will improve the general academic standards of the University student w^ithout sacrificing the broad character of the student body as it has always existed. 
Such a program will bring the preparatoiy school, especially the Catholic high school, and the Univer­sity together in a manner that should prove of definite constructive educa­tional value to both. It should stim­ulate preparatory school activities by bringing to them the University per­spective. 
Notre Dame wants prospects who will make good. Alumni can pass judgment on the likelihood of candi­dates to "fit in" at N. D. By con­tacting a boy before he enters Notre Dame, in many cases following him through several years of his prepara­tory work, the alumni, the Local Club, the -Association, and the Uni­versity itself, come to know him well, and he knows them. As a result, the spirit that has grown so strong in the average four years ought to be strengthened by these added years of acquaintance to the lasting benefit of Club, Association and school, which always results ultimately in the benefitting of the individual alumnus. 
The program will undoubtedly in­volve the preparation of attractive literature of the campus which can be used to interest and enlighten the alumnus as well as the boy in whom he is interested. 
It will involve appearances before schools. Clubs, and other organiza­tions of boys and theirs parents of representatives from the campus. This element of personal contact has long been needed by the Association, and ought, under the new program, to bring these benefits to our own organization as a part of its func­tioning. 
Similarly, alumni records, being necessary to the promotion of the new program, can undoubtedly be perfected to a point exceeding that which has been possible under our own machinery. 
Pending the economic recovery of the alumni generally, the University will share the expenses of this pro­gram, which brings an admitted life saver to the -Association. As condi­tions improve, it should be a source of pleasurable pride to alumni to contribute enough to the -Association to permit the full financing of this program, which, in itself, is a justifi­cation for' the existence of the As­sociation. 
The program permits the individu­al alumnus, outside Club areas, to participate actively in the Associa­tion program, to repay his particular debt of gratitude to the University, or to do as important a bit of work in the field of Catholic -Action as the opportunities of the average layman present. 
-After thorough consideration, the Board of Directors of the Alumni As­sociation feels that the program as outlined and contemplated fulfils to a greater degree than any other pos­sible project in this period of our history the elements of moral, mate­rial, and fraternal progress. 
Dr. S. J. Maher, Laetare Medalist, Nears T. B. Cure 
Dr. Stephen J. Maher, New Haven, 

Conn., recipient of the Laetare medal 
in 1932 in recognition of his heroic 
work in tuberculosis research, today 
is the center of interest in the medi­
cal world as the result of his recent 
prediction, following long and inten­
sive investigation, that a "cure for 
tuberculosis is in sight." 
Dr. Maher's prediction was made at a gathering, to which 18,000 phy­sicians had been imited, at the Laurel Heights Tuberculosis Sana­torium, Shelton, Conn. After 25 years research. Dr. Maher said, a technique has been developed for the breeding of a special tj^ie of bac­teria which destroy the bacillus of tuberculosis, human, bovine, and aWan. These new destroyers of one of mankind's worst enemies are a species of bacteria known as cocci and diplococci. They come into ex­istence from the tubercle bacilli themselves, after they are given a certain food, consisting of sterile milk and the bacilli are treated with glycerine. 
These cocci and diplococci, Dr. Maher said, are non-acid fast and produce an acid harmless to them­selves—"but full of harm to the tu­berculosis germs from which they are derived." 
"We have not as yet," Dr. Maher cautioned the physicians present, "secured any convincing evidence from animal experiments that these cocci and diplococci have any pre­ventive or curative effect on tuber­culosis in guinea pigs or rabbits, but we have abundant evidence that these cocci and diplococci, whether derived from avian, bovine, or very pathogenic human tubercle bacilli produce no' harmful effect when in­jected into guinea pigs or rabbits. 
"In itself this is a very important matter if we are to consider any possible therapeutic (curative) use of these cocci and diplococci derived from tubercle bacilli. 
"Despite its present accessibility, this new field contains, in the opin­ion of some of us, the long-sought and greatly needed specific cure for tuberculosis. 
"Of course, the temptation to preserve silence on this work of ours until we can say — 'Here is a cure for tuberculosis!' has been very strong. But we have resisted this temptation because we realize that, if we are on the right track, the cure will be achieved much sooner if we impart our knowledge of di­rection to the whole world, than it could be if we tried to find this cure alone. 
"Once sighted, nothing, not even political scheming or lack of funds, could keep the world from secxinng immediately and developing the cure for tuberculosis—^which is the great­est prize in the world." 
"Last July," Dr. Maher added, "it occurred to me that my own unsup­ported claims might fail of securing 
DB. STEPHEN JVLVHEB 
Science and faith in harmony. 

the attention they deserved and I decided that, before I made my re­sults public, I would ask some prom­inent physicians among my associ­ates in the tuberculosis campaign to endeavor to corroborate my results." 
New Novitiate Progresses 

A new novitiate for the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, to supplant the familiar building on the far side of St. Joseph's Lake at the University, is being built at Interlacken, near Rolling Prairie, Indiana at a cost of §350,000. Construction was begun a short time ago, following the award­ing of the contract to the Ralph Sol­litt Construction Co., builder of num­erous recent structures on the campus. 
The cornerstone for the new novi­tiate was laid on Nov. 13 by Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, su­perior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Assisting him were Very Rev. James A.. Bums, C.S.C, provincial. Rev. Edward Laurin, C.S.C., Rev. W. R. Connor, C.S.C, Brother Bernard, C.S.C, and Brother Alban, C.S.C. 
Constructed of red brick and trimmed with limestone, the new structure, three stories in height, will follow the Lombard style of archi­tecture. It will contain living quar­ters for 150 novices and their super­iors and will be ready for occupancy next spring. 
(Gp ) Edwards, '09, in Charge 

OF Studebaker Truck Dep't 
To direct and expand an intensive campaign to sell more commercial cars, the Studebaker Corporation, from its headquarters in South Bend, has recently announced the appoint­ment of W. H. 'Cap' Edwards, '09, as general manager in charge of all truck activities. 
"Cap" is particularly known to a large portion of the alumni through his close connection for many years with Knute Kockne and with Jesse Harper and "Hunk" Anderson. He has played an important part in Notre Dame football ever since his own playing days at the University. The following partial account, taken from the South Bend News-Times, will, therefore, be of particular inter­est to many. 
"The appointment of (Cap) Ed­wards—everybody in this city knows him affectionately by his nickname— brings an old friend . and business intimate to the inner circle of Stude­baker's executive staff. 

"Perhaps no man who has not been on the Studebaker payroll has ever been more closely identified with the corporation. 
" 'It is just like asking a brother to pull up a chair and have dinner'," said C H. Wondries, in charge of sales in the truck division. " 'In fact, 'Cap' Edwards has worked so closely with us for so many years that it has been hard to believe he was not actually one of us. He has a vast acquaintanceship with the entire Studebaker organization. He knows everybody in the plants and the Ad­ministration Building. And he knows and has discussed sales plans with nearly every regional sales manager, dealer and distributor in the field. He's always been one of us—and we're mighty happy to have him more closely identified'." 
"The story of 'Cap' Edwards life is a brilliant example of that famous newspaper headline, 'Loca l Boy Makes Good.' He is a native son of South Bend who has made good. 
" 'Cap' Edwards was bom in South Bend, Sept. 5, 1888. The scene of his birth was the old Edwards' farm, three miles south of the city. He was a grandnephew of J. M. Stude­baker. He was educated in South Bend public schools and in 1906 he entered Notre Dame. One outstand­ing 'Believe it or Not' about his life is that he began playing football on the sand lots oif the city in 1900— and played the game continuously until 1926. Every autumn for 26 years found him in football togs and even Cap himself cannot guess how 
(Continued on Page 79) 


'CAP' EDWARDS 

Catholic Peace ConFerence At N. D. November 19 
(Continaed from Pase 78) 
By Paul 

On Sunday, November 19th, the University of Notre Dame was host to sixtee n speakers representing Catholic colleges and societies who discussed topics related to peace at 
 Ooyle, '36 
spoke in the absence of Dorothy WlUman; and Doctor Jeremiah Sul­livan, of the school of journalism, Marquette University. 
The part of Education in develop-
Left to riiiht scatiKl: Rev. Joseph Keincr. S.J.: Sr. JI. Benidictus. C.S.C, Miss Marion McCandlcss: Rev. Frederic SiedenbarK. S.J.: Rev. J. W. R. Masuire. C.S.V.: left to right standing; Prof. G. P. O'Donnell: Dr. Francis jrcJIahon; Dr. Robert Pollock; Rev. Charles 
C. Miltner, C.S.C., vice-president of the Catholic Association for International Peace, and 
Rev. Francis Mullin, 
the one-day regional meeting of the Catholic Association for Internation­al Peace. This was the first time that the annual assembly had met on the campus. 
The day-long convocation opened at 9:00 o'clock Sunday morning with Mass in the Sacred Heart Church. His Excellency, Bishop John F. Noll, D.D., of Fort Wayne, Indiana, cele­brated the Mass, and delivered the sermon in which he scoi-ed national­ism and advocated a turning to God for deliverance from war and the present economic ills of the world. 
After Mass the first formal session of the day was held in the auditori­um of the Law Building. Reverend William Bolger, C.S.C, of the Notre Dame Economics department pre­sided at the meeting. Reverend 
. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, delivered the first address on "Peace and the College Curriculum." After Father Miltner, the following speakers pre­sented a symposium on "Education and Peace":Reverend Joseph Reiner, S.J., of Loyola University, Chicago; Miss Marion McCandless, represen­tative of the International Fedei-a­tion of Catholic Alumnae and the National Council of Catholic Wom­en, of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame; The Eight Reverend Msgr. 
J. M. Wolfe, of Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa; Sister M. Benedic­tus, of St. Mai-y's College; Miss Vir­ginia O'Brien, of South Bend, who ing proper mental attitude toward peace, the contribution of organiza­tions to the progress of world amity, and the need of a mass movement in behalf of peace were among the items discussed during the morning session. 
In the afternoon meeting, nation­alism and its selfish principles were bitterly denounced. God and not the state was shown to be the Prime Object of a people's patriotism. President Roosevelt's adoption of an isolation policy was looked upon as presenting a serious obstacle in the path of world peace. Pleas were voiced for world disarmament as a necessarj' step in acquiring inter­national amity. 
Hon. William M. Cain presided as chairman of the afternoon discus­sions, which were also held in the Law Building. Those who spoke in the afternoon and their topics: Rev. 
R. A. McGowan, of the National Catholic Welfai-e Conference, "Eu­rope—Its Problemsi and Efforts for Peace"; Rev. Frederic Siedenburg, S.J., dean of the University of De­troit, "Disarmament"; Dr. Francis 
E. McMahon, professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, "Nationalism"; Charles P. O'Donnell, head of the history department at DePaul Uni­versity, "Peace Treaties"; Very Rev. 
J. W. R. Maguire, C.S.V., president of St. Viatoi-'s College, "The New World Position of the United many football uniforms he has worn 
out. 
" 'Cap'" Edwards was Knute Kock­
ne's close friend. He aided Jesse 
Harper in coaching the famous Notre 
Dame team of which Rockne was cap­
tain. He received his Notre Dame 
diploma in 1909. 
"When the war came 'Cap' Ed­
wards was chief inspector of ordnance 
in northeastern Indiana and with 
George Sweet had charge of produc­
tion of all ordnance material in the 
Studebaker plants during the war. 
After the war he served on the claims 
board in the Chicago district of the 
ordnance department. 
"In 1920, 'Cap' and his brother. 
John, founded the Edwards' Iron 
Works in this city. The two brothers 
built the iron and steel business to 
an annual million-dollar volume. In 
1930, they began the manufacture of 
truck bodies and cabs. Today, they 
are among the country's foremost 
builders of semi-trailers. During the 
growth of this business, they worked 
very closely with Studebaker's truck 
division in both the plant and the 
sales department. 
"In years past, 'Cap' has gone into 
the plants in his shirt sleeves and 
helped in the construction of convey­
ing machinery, mill work, and he has 
designed and installed most of Stude­
baker's assembly lines. Moreover, he 
has the same 'shirt sleeve' acquaint­
ance -ivith the selling organization in 
the field. 
"During his career 'Cap' Edwards has always been associated with dvil and municipal activities. Last year, he was president of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce. His acquaint­anceship in the city is probably the largest of any -litizen. Testimony to his popularity was seen at the Stude­baker Administration building, when he was deluged with telephone calls of congratulations from plant work­ers, civic leaders and automobile executives everywhere." 
Conaghans Terrorized 
Thieves who forced Mr. and Mrs. Paul Conaghan, '20, from their car in Chicago, Dec. 3, and drove it off, discovered they had unwittingly kid­naped Paul's infant son and his nurse who were in the rumble seat. Probab­ly frightened by the fate of recent kidnapers, they hurriedly put nurse and baby out at the first stop to the relief of the frantic parents. 
States"; Rev. Francis A. Mullin, of Columbia College, Dubuque, Iowa, "Peace Policies in the United States"; and Dr. Robert C. Pollock, of the philosophy department at Notre Dame, "The Catholic Students' Responsibility Today." 




The Young Alumnus 
(This is the second of a scries of editorials attcmptino to ouilinc the possibilities that reside in the various groups our Association, and to convey to those croups the attitude of the Alumni Office.) 
/f^QOVTR is the marble from which experience sculp­^-^oiltures age. 
Notre Dame, throughout the peculiar conditions of growth that came to our colleges after the war, presents a rich quarry. 
If you do not care for allusions, the simple fact is that Notre Dame, with few of its alumni, comparatively speaking, enjoying the reward of experience and long careers, has a tremendous faith in its young men. 
Half, or more, of our members represent graduates of the last decade, four years of which have thrown an impassible economic barrier in the path of the new alum­nus, and caused the very ground to quake beneath the feet of those gone before them. 
Half, therefore, of our membership, can be reasonably assumed to be economically retarded to a degree custom­arily identified \yith only the first year out of school. 
The half of our membership representing graduates before 1923 are also not preserved from the inroads that natural financial diff'erences and the unnatural depreda­tions of a new low in depressions have brought about. 
Economically, therefore, almost generally, we are in an imenviable position as an Association, and no cause of great joy to our Alma Mater from an immediate pecuniary viewpoint. 
Fortunately, especially in the case of the young alumnus, Notre Dame is among the first of our educa­tional institutions to recognize that relations with alumni involve a great deal more than potential endowment. 
Notre Dame recognizes, and wants young alumni to believe, that in the principles of Catholic education for which the University stands, and particularly in the patronage of Our Lady, there is a constant inspiration that has a power and an appeal of inestimable value to the young man launching his career. 
There is also a potential leadership in our young men with which Notre Dame has a concern broader than dollars in its concept. 
This is the leadership of right thinking and right living. The world outside the realm of Catholic church and Catholic school, is trying to recall in. this admitted crisis sound principles of social justice. President Roose­velt has seen fit to recognize them in his quotations from and adaptations of the famous Encyclicals, "Rerum Nov-arum" and "Quadragesimo Anno." These encyclicals sum­marize principles of social justice which have been in­stilled Into our Catholic college men. The field of world leadership is, therefore, open to the Catholic young man as never before. The ramifications of this path to power are many—^religious, moral, educational, social. 
Certainly the concern of our Catholic schools for their young graduates is not to be wondered at or doubted, apart from any selfish material interest in their success. 
The young alumnus, in the position outlined above, can, if he so desires, coast on this solicitude to a ripe age, and possibly into infinity. 
Notre Dame's good fortune has been the general lack of this desire. But, possessed of a willingness and not infrequently 
an eagerness to help, the young alumnus, economically handicapped, naturally is faced with that well-known "AVhat can I do?" 
That is where the Alumni Association takes the floor. 
Notre Dame has asked its alumni, young and old, for very little. But the Association, intimately associated with the University's problems, need not hesitate to voice suggestions to members based on obvious University needs and evident opportunities whereby alumni can repay those things which, as the first editorial in this series pointed out, Notre Dame has given so freely to alumni. 
In the new program of the Association, announced in the leading article of this issue, the young alumnus finds a golden opportunity for practical aid to Notre Dame. 
Not too far removed from the student perspective, both college and preparatory, his contacts with prospect­ive students can be more valuable than those of the older alumnus whose judgment and experience are too fre­quently offset by his lack of knowledge of changes in requirements, curricula and personnel of the schools from which the new students come and to which they go. 
The young alumni usually know the present personnel of the community's preparatory schools as teachers they themselves have enjoyed, and they can be invaluable in making the most desirable contacts with these teachers. 
News of the Clubs and the Classes is one of the prin­cipal features of co-ordination in the Association. The younger classes have done well in both the Class and Club columns and this frequent contact in type is bound to result favorably. The wide distribution of our alumni makes other contacts than through the printed word infrequent and impractical. 
Recent graduates, in the natural course of events, frequently come in contact vrith their contemporaries from other schools. Not infrequently there are compari­sons of curricula, alumni activity, and other topics the results of which would be of interest and frequently of value to Notre Dame and the Alumni Association. 
It is usually the younger men who mingle in the broader social and sporting circles where so much of the misinformation concerning Notre Dame is rife. They can, if they are properly informed, do the major mission­ary work of crushing error and aiding the various truths about Notre Dame to rise again. 
Catholic action, new in its concepts and new in its fields, must appeal primarily to the young man. Certainly the young Catholic college man is the logical source of hope and expectation for this movement. What this would mean to Notre Dame is incidental to what such activity would mean to the individual. 
Criticism is leveled at our Catholic college graduates by the Catholic press, the Catholic theater movement, the parish activities. Catholic fraternal organizations, and other general Catholic movements, for their lack of what should be leading participation. The hope for elim­inating this criticism does not lie in the men long gradu­ated, whose circvmistances, however justifiable, gave rise to the criticism. The rational reform in these fields obviously rests on the doorsteps of the young alumni. 
The above paragraphs, somewhat disjointed though they are, nevertheless contain in part suggestions of the broad field which lies immediately about the young Notre Dame alumnus, in which he can grow in all of the virtues with few sacrifices or few barriers. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 81 


Byron V. Kanaley, *04, Heads University Lay Trustees 
Prominent Graduate Elected to Succeed Late A. R. Erskine; OHice Recognizes Years of Outstanding Loyalty and Serv­ice to Notre Dame; Brings New Honor to Alumni Association 
Byron Vincent Kanaley, A.B. '04, who is now honorary president of the Alumni Association after having held every other office of responsibil­ity and honor in the power of his fellow alumni to bestow, achieved probably the highest distinction that can come to an alumnus of Notre Dame, when, at the semi-annual meeting of the Board of Lay Trus­tees of the University on November 24, he was elected to the chairman­ship of the Board, succeeding the late Albert Russel Erskine who had been its chairman from the founda­tion of the Board in 1920. 
This tribute of the University and the non-alumni members of the Board to Notre Dame's own alumni representation thereon was empha­sized by the election of Hon. War­ren A. Cartier, '87, to the temporary chairmanship preceding the election of Mr. Kanaley. Successors to the late A. R. Erskine and E. N. Hurley in the personnel of the Board were not elected at this meeting, leaving two vacancies to be filled at the meeting in May. 
The new chairman is connected 
with Notre Dame as one of its most 
active graduates. He is a monogram 
man in baseball; he was one of the 
best of the golden era of debaters; 
he edited the Scholastic and was 
president of the Class of 1904. 
He is connected by marriage. Mrs. Kanaley's father attended Notre Dame in 1860. 
He is connected by one of those "younger brothers" so frequent in Notre Dame history—John Kanaley, 
.now a partner in the Kanaley in­
vestment brokerage offices at 120 S. 
La Salle St., was graduated in 1909. 
He is connected by posterity. An application hangs on the Alumni Of­fice wall for the entrance of Byron Kanaley, Jr., made out the day of his birth, Aug. 17, 1919. Further than that, a daughter, Adele, is the wife of Fred Miller, '28, former cap­tain of the Notre Dame football team; a nephew has attended the University, and another nephew is making plans for next fall. 
All Notre Dame men are familiar 
with and appreciate fully the great 
aid that the University has received 
during the 13 years of the Board's 
existence from the advice in the ad­
ministration of the endowment funds 
of the institution given by the lead­
ers in business and finance who have 
comprised the group. Limited as is 
the total endowment of the Univer­sity, it is of added significance that few funds in existence have enjoyed as uniformly successful administra­tion. So able and friendly has the Board been that it has become a source of general advice in the af­fairs of Notre Dame, outside those problems of endowment that origi­nally gave rise to its organization. 
Typical of the interest of members was the attendance at the Nov. 24th meeting when Angus McDonald, '00, absent through the most urgent busi­ness, was the only living member of the Board not present. Albert R. Erskine, chainnan during the entire 13 years of the Board's history, and Edward N. Hurley, one of the most active advisors, had died since the previous meeting of the Board last May. 
The Board, recently increased to eight members each of alumni and non-alumni, now is comprised of: 
NON- ALUMNI NAME TERM EXP. Mr. Fred J. Fisher, 
Detroit, Mich 1935 Mr. Miles O'Brien, South Bend (re-elected sec'y) 1935 Mr. C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis 1937 Mr. Matthew J. Carney, New York. City .; 1937 Mr. James J. Phelan, Boston, Mass. .-. 1937 Vacancy to be filled succeeding Mr. Erskine 1937 Mr. Edward J. Doyle, Chicago (re-elected) 1939 Vacancy to be filled succeeding Mr. Hurley 1939 
-A.LUMNI NASIE TERM EXP. Mr. Warren A. Cartier, '87, 
Ludington, Mich 1935 Mr. John F. Gushing, '06, Chicago, 111 1935 Mr. Frank C. Walker, '09, New York City _ 1937 Mr. George M. Anson, '95, Merrill, Wis 1937 Mr. Angus D. McDonald, '00, San Francisco, Calif. 1937 Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, 111 - 1937 Mr. Frank E. Hering, '98, South Bend, Ind 1939 Mr. John P. Murphy, '12, Cleveland, Ohio 1939 
Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, acting president, gave a brief report of the University's year, which was released for publication. It follows: 
Addition of a separate department of metallurgy to the college of engi­neering this year with Prof. Edward Garfield Mahin, Ph.D., as its head, was mentioned. Dr. Mahin recently patented a new process of carburiz­ing steel which reduces the required time by 70 per cent. Thirteen courses, nine undergraduate, are of­fered in the college. 
The research activities of the de­partment of chemistry during the last academic year were reported to have exceeded those of any previous year in the history of the depart­ment. Twenty-two publications have appeared in a number of standard scientific and technical journals, four more have been, submitted and 18 are almost ready for publication. 
Chemistry of acetylenes, olefines and boron fluorides were principally the subject of researches of the chemistry department and some of them promise to have considerable commerical value, the report stated. 
Formation of a graduate course in medieval philosophy under the direction of Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, and Dr. Robert Pollock, was mentioned as an important departure in the field of philosophy at the Uni­versity. 
The college of enginering was re­ported to have received from the Bell Telephone company of New York and from Western Electric company new equipment valued at several thousands of dollars. New equipment also has been purchased for the laboratories of the depart­ment of physics and metallurgy and three laboratories have been added in the department of physics. 
Tw o professors were reported do­ing advanced work in California, Rev. James Kline, C.S.C, studying astronomy at the University of Cali­fornia, and Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C, physics at the California In­stitute of Technology. 
Academic honors which came to Notre Dame faculty members during the year included: 
Rev. Julius Arthur Nieuwland, C.S.C, who was elected Golden Ju­bilee president of the Indiana Acad­emy of Siecnce and given an inter­national honor, the Morehead medal, an award annually conferred by the International Acetylene association for researches in acetylene. 
(Contmuccl on Page 91) 

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS November, 19SS 
By 

CAMPUS MEMORIES R.. . John W . Cavanaugh, CS.C. 
Every campus seemingly has its uncrowned laureates. Supreme among them all in our country was the fam­ous Southern convert. Father John 
B. Tabb, of St. Charles College, near Baltimore. Once when the College president commissioned Tabb to send a note inviting Cardinal Gibbons and his guest, Bishop John Foley, of De­troit, to dinner, the poet—^unrivalled master of the quatrain among Eng­lish-writing poets of the modem age —achieved this: 
Dear Cardinal Gibbons with all your red ribbons Pray show us the light of j-our face; And brinff with you holy John Michigan Foley ^Vho hopes soon to be in your place. 

Both prelates came. Again when an Italian Count named Sacropanti brought the anticipatory cardinalitial red biretta to the first Apostolic Dele­gate (about whom there had been some amiable grumbling because so many people had sent him presents) there was a dinner in honor of the Count and Tabb was among the guests. During the speeches the poet assuaged his ennui by scribbling verse which under duress he permitted a friend and familiar to read. They ran as follows: 
Sacropanti, Sacropanti do not ask for riches: Indeed we have not gold enough to fill j'our holy breeches. 

That is one of the hitherto unpub­lished bits of the ivitty wizard, John 
B. Tabb. 

Unappreciated to the point of mor­tal sin among us is the beautiful poetry of George H. Miles, of old Mt. St. Mary's, Emmetsburg. Delectable "Billy" Phelps, of Yale—I'm glad his middle name is Lyon and not Goat!— is happily -with us still, and there have been more than one Oliver Wen­dell Holmes at Harvard. There have been more than one Holmes on our own campus, too, but chiefest, bright­est and best loved among our local laureates was Professor Arthur J. Stace. This piece is about him. 
Bom on a farm in Sussex, England, losing his father early by death, but fortunately enjoying the care of a mother of exceptional talent and spir­ituality, the boy -was received into the Church at ten with his mother, and both -were confirmed by the popular and erudite Cardinal Wiseman, then Titular Bishop of Melepontanus. At fourteen he emigrated with the family to what -was then called Canada West, now Ontario, and his adolescence was in Toronto, serving as a printer's ap­prentice until his twentieth year. Then he took charge of a primitive 
Catholic school in Marshall, Michigan. 
His mother was for years in charge 
of the Minims here before the long 
and beautiful day of Sister Aloysius, 
and so, it happened that in 1860 Ar­
thur Joseph matriculated at Notre 
Dame, doing double duty as teacher 
in the preparatory department and 
student in the college, and making 
friends always by his unobtrusive, at­
tractive manners and his perenially 
playful and friendly disposition. Four 
years later, he was Bachelor of Arts 
and two years afterward, in 1866, he 
was Master. 
From 1864 until his death exactly 
30 years later he was a prominent 
and brilliant member of our faculty 
(with occasional brief leaves of ab­
sence) teaching a somewhat mottled 
program until he settled down com­
fortably in the chair of higher math­
ematics. He was Notre Dame's first 
Professor of Civil Engineering. Dur­
ing his last years he was (fortun­
ately for me) much occupied with 
classes of History and English Lit­
erature: I had my freshman English 
under him. 

So far we have been contemplating not only the mottled program but a highly variegated sage. There was something about the Notre Dame man of that elder day not so common among those of us who came later. From the viewpoint of broadest cul­ture many of us think that the two finest products of our university from the beginning have been Judge Tim­othy E. Howard and Father John A. Zahm, CS.C. Howard was mathe­matician, popular astronomer, accept­able poet, master of a distinguished prose style, amateur historian, prac­tising attorney, professor of law. Chief Justice of Indiana, Laetare Medalist and really eminent jurist. He served as Mayor of South Bend; an attractive park there commemor­ates his name. Father Zahm's first love was pure literature. But they needed a science teacher when he was ordained, and compliantly he became professor of chemistry and physics. His flair for wTiting continuing, and his general knowledge of all the branches of science broadening, he naturally undertook the work of apol­ogetics and won national applause and repute. Later returning to his 
first predilection, he produced a ser­ies of works on various aspects of South America under the name of Dr. 
H. J. Mozeans and won critical com­pliments throughout the English-speaking world. It was he who in­duced President Theodore Roosevelt to go to South America as Teddy him­self tells in his big book. Later, T. R. 
wrote the Introduction to Father Zahm's first volume of the South American Trilogy. 
President Thomas E. Walsh, CS.C, 
. ('81-'93) was not only consummate Latin and Greek scholar but a master of French language and literature as well, and with a special knowledge of English literature and an artist's power of English e.xpression. The list could be much extended. 
Professor Arthur J. Stace was for years the. leading mathematician of the campus, had done practical work as a civil eng^ineer in the Rockies and was far more than a dillettante in nearly all the branches of science. He was a writer of smooth, imag^ative, delectable humorous prose and had fluency, power and charm in both ser­ious and comic verse. But he ^vrote real poetry, too. 
In 1885 his faculty associate, the ever-memorable and beloved Profes­sor Joseph A. Lyons, for whom one of our residence halls has been named, gathered out of bound volumes of the Scholastic certain offspring of Stace's muse in the 20 years following his graduation. Not all his work is there alas! but nearly all the best of it. He assumed the pen name of Justin Thyme,* a characteristic corruption of words! The title of the little vol­ume, (alas! now out of print with only an occasional copy surviving here and there among bibliophiles!— was "Vapid Vaporings," and perhaps it is fair to record there was some perturbation when the charming Irish writer Rosa MulhoUand (who became Lady Gilbert by marriage) sent over the seas an aggressive and menacing message because the Professor had unwittingly used a book-title very like one she herself had employed for one of her volumes years before. "Vapid Vaporings" published in 1885 has never been reprinted as yet, I regret 
to say. 
The contents of this piquant and pungent little book are assembled un­der nine captions, themselves amusing enough: I, Exemplifications of Style; 
n. Chansons Psysiolo^ques; HI, Rhyme s in Season; IV, Furtive Snatches at Hash; V, Knocks Around the Rockies, VI, Vindictive and Man­iacal; VII, Other Themes; VIII, The Commentator; IX, II Ciriegio. 
As illustrating the first group, it will be appropriate to use some lines in which the poet disavowed the title of professor. 
* Observe, Boethius, Thyme is pronounced as 

• if spelled time. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
AN UNDESIRED PREFIX The decoration of the acrobat. The nesro-minstrel's boast, the shoe-black's handle. Claimed by each clown that learns to "skin the cat," Each expert playinp sames not worth the candle! Was it for this I burned the midnicht oil? Called aorists my friends, and oft would dally With sines and tangents until what was toil Seemed pleasure? though Dame Nature out­rnsed rally Her rebel forces, led astray by mental appli­cation— 
Strike mc with shattered ner\'cs. As such nejilect deserves. And drive me out to take vacation. 
The title once, indeed, seemed hard to Rain. And hence the strain; But unto him who titles would refuse, 'Tis harder far to lose: In vain I flee to parts unknown— Debauch my tongue with current slang— 
Scarce seven days have o'er me flown Ere some wclI-meaninR friend Some letter or some postal card will 
send— May such po hang! From the address they cannot doff That odious prefix "Prof." 

Great Henry Wadsworth, borne on spirit wings From thy long fellowship* with earthly things I In that bright sphere which now thou call'st 
thine o^vn— Than which Excelsior shall ne'er be known^ In that bright sphere, say, do they ape the 
leaser And outrage spirit ears by calling thee "Professor?" 
I pause for a reply; If "aye" Then I 
Shall hesitate to die! 

A jest that has since become famil­iar enough was extended into some­thing" like a brief comic opera in 
THE SONG OF ^HE SPITTOON 
I.—Andante Grazioso. Once, as old Homer tells us, the Olympic Gods came down To sojourn with the Ethiops, then blameless * in renow^n; And the latter in their gratitude, or else to have a joke. Taught their celestial visitants tobacco for to smoke. 
Chonts (Spiritnoso) after each stanza: 
Perhaps it was by accident, perhaps 'twas by design. But whether which or 't other it is no con­cern of mine: For no matter bow it started, we appreciate the boon Conferred by great Minerva, in inventing (sforzando) the spittoon. 
n,—Con fuoco. The gods were all delighted: no nectar pleased like this, • And e'en the gentle goddesses* were fain to share the bliss; From the dewy hours of morning to the glimpses of the moon. Old Olympus had a redolence like that of a saloon. 
* Do you get it, Bocthius ? ^ Iliad, Book I. verses 423-424. 
• A thesis on "The Poet as Prophet." 
HI.—Moderato. 

Juno, of course, in public, to smoke would not be seen. But she-slipped into the kitchen and she smoked behind a screen; And Ceres, though for Proserpine she could not weep enough. Yet found a consolation in the inter\'cning puff. 
IV.—Scherzando. Diana tried to stint herself to three cigars a day; But Venus found it easier to cast restraint away. And people for a season were exempt from amorous sweats. For she kept the infant Cupid twisting up her cigarettes. 
V.—Un poco piu piano. Vesta, you know, had always smoked - from golden days of yore. And she wondered how the others had not found it out before; The Furies smoked like fuo*. and the Fates did not forfend. While the Muses and the Graces in the general movement blend. 
VI.—Adagio. But the azure-eyed JMiner*"a with severely virtuous scorn. Viewed the shocking bad example set to millions yet unborn ; She sniffed the smoky atmosphere with much offended nose. And when they spat upon the floor bow high her choler' rose! 
VII.—Sostenuto. Now the floor of heaven is brass below and overlaid with gold. Inwrought with many a jewel, as by ix>ots we are told No wonder that Minerva, then, should mur­mur and repine. To see it soiled with spittle, though the spittle were divine. 
(Instead of the chorus at the end of this verse, a grand staccato movement from the orchestra expresses the feelings of Miner\*a.) 
VIII.—LargD. To remonstrate would be useless, as she couldn't help but feel. So she sought to find a remedy the gross abuse to heal; And after mighty pondering she solved the problem soon. From her (calando) depths of inward con­sciousness evolving the SPITTOON. (Solemn and metaphysical symphony on the bass drum.) 
IX.—Allegro Vivace. The invention was successful, and they rec­ognized its" use, 'Twas calculated to instruct as well as to amuse; They are agreed jnnci-\-a for her skill had won the belt. And that a want had been supplied that long time had been felt. 
X,—Macstosct. Now Jove was feeling jovial, as he often docs, they say. Ho beckoned unto Mercury and bid him speed away— 
- Vesta is the personification of the domestic hearth. 
* ^\Tien the collar rises high it Is ruff. 
Speed away and fetch Apollo, from Olympus long exiled— "Go bring him back now. Mercury,—no longer are we riled." 
XI.—Dolce. The winged-footed Mercury not sorry felt to go. He sought Admetus' pasture, where Apollo was, you know: "Nov.\ Foil old boy. good news for you— the gov'nor wants you back. So leave your flocks and wing with me again the upward track." (Solo on the Jyre, expressive of Apollo's delight.) 
XII.—Prestissimo. Apolk> gladly tuned his lyre, and sang. "I'm going home," And then with Mercury set out to reach 
Olympus' dome; 

And while they sped their heavenward way. be learned the fashion new. To smoke the fragrant meerschaum, just as you or I would do. 
XIII.—Cantabile. That afternoon, Apolk>, his adventures bid to tell. Was smoking with the rest of them, and spitting, too, as well; But though he'd learned from Mercury to smoke—alas! too soon. He had not learned from Mercury the use of the SPITTOON. 
Xrv.—Tempo di Marcia. Con Brio. Giuocosissira o. Minen.'a poked it over, but he didn't seem to 
see. Just what it was intended for. "Minerva, dear," said he, "That's a handsome new invention, but it grieves me much to state If you don't remove it farther, I shall (sfor­zando) SPIT IN'T, sure as Fate. (Curtain) 
Mr. Stace's scientific bent is most pleasantly exemplified in group No. II, of which a characteristic specimen is: 
THE LADY ANATOMIST. I. So fair is her face and so classic her brow-
No pen can her beauty portray; But in \*ain do the Graces her figure endow She is cold as a vestal, though bound by 
no vow. x\nd she casts adulation away. 
II. From her lips scientific the words that are heard Seem to issue direct from her brains; Like Minerva, whose owl she has always preferred. Regarding it as a superior bird To the doves Cytherea maintains. 
UL Yet low at her feet see the youngster that sighs. 
And offers her jewels and gold: While in piteous strains his entreaties he plies To gain—were it only a glance from her 
eyes— Yet he obdurate finds her, and cold. 
IV, "But let me interpret thy silence aright:— r know I was wronff from the start:— Thou car'st not for gold or for jewels so bright:— 
Mere wealth can afford to thy soul no delisrht;— Then I offer thee, dearest, my heart!" 

V. A gratified flash from her eye he obser\*es. And he can but rejoice at the sight. " 'Tis just what' I wanted—^blood vessels and nerves. And muscles contractins: in rcKular cur\-es!— I'm caused to you, really, sir, quite! 
VI. "I'll examine your auricles, ventricles too, (While the muscles rela:c and contract.) And the "valves that the swift-fiowins blood passes tfaroufirb. And 1*11 see what the chordae tcndincac do. And how the aorta must act. 
. VII. "And since you're so free with your heart, I suppose That your lungs you will also donate. With the air cells and bronchial tubes they enclose; I'll keep them in spirits"—^but here he arose With his love metamorphosed to hate. 
vin. "I'll be blowed if you will I"—it was all he could say. Though his feelings ttunultuous raged. So he bowed a farewell; but he called the 
same day P n another young lady just over the way. Who didn't anatomy study, and they 
In less than a week were engaged. 

A droll blend of gravity and fun that may illustrate the seasonable rhymes of the third division is: 
THE GROUNDHOG TO HIS SHADOW Perturber of my hibernating dreams! Dark, fateful child of wintry solar beams— Of that chill sunlight, powerless to thaw. Companion of the breezes, bleak and raw.— Say, dost thou lie in wait my hopes to blight. When I awake from this long winter's night— To dog my footsteps, chase me back to earth, tu t off for six weeks more my second birth? Molest me not, dire phantom, troublous c^f. Malevolent presentment of myself; Let thickening clouds obscure the solar ray. So oft desired, so nndesired to-day. Then shall I revd in Dame Nature's lap. Nip the young twigs and taste the ascending 
sap; ^ A jocund life of genial days commence I So mote it be! Hence, horrible shadow, hence! FEBRUABV 2, 1885. 
"Furtive Snatches at Hash" de­serves to be exemplified by two brief poems. 
THOUGHTS ON HAVING SAUSAGE FOR BREAKFAST. How nice, when at mom we descend. The succulent sausage appears: While odors deliciously blend In a rich touf-nwniibic that cheers. 
And yet would caliminious spite E!en here a suspicion instil; E'en here would its venomous blight Forbid us our joy to fulfil. 
For some would persuade us the purp And his tougher old father, the dog— That the cat and her kittens usurp The place of the orthodox hog. 
How quickly such calumnies vile Thy genial presence dispds; The libel we meet with a smile. 
And our conduct our confidence tells. 
How snugly we gather thee in. "While gravy so unctuously drips. And our faces expand in a grin As we lift thy loved form to our lips. 
PEANUTS. 
L Oh, how detestable. Is this comestible! 
Doctors denounce them as quite indigestible. 
II. Still the boys- munching them. Cracking and crunching them. 
Vainly expect the effect of a lunch in them. ni. Stuffed to satiety. (Farewll, propriety!) Still, they go cracking on, pests of society. IV. S>Tnptoms of cholera. Making them holler "ah!" Soon supervene, while the peanuts they swaller, ah! V. "Would you our gratitude Gain, from our latitude Drive this abuse—it would comfort us, that it woiJd J VI. Banish it utterly; Nuts in the gutter lay: Then I'll subscribe myself, yours, sir, peanutterly. 

Naturally the experience as a civil engineer in the mountainous, western country produced some good things. Only four poems are listed under this heading, and while regretting I can­not share them all with my readers, I am sure all \vill derive pleasure from 
THE LAY OF THE CACTUS. 
ARIA: El Uso del Vcrdc. 

L Oh! glorious is the cactus in the merry month of Slay: With crimson, pink and amber hues the mountain side is gay; You might travel many a weary league nor see a view so bright; But the cactus isn't just the thing to sit upon —not quite! 
II. I was scrambling up the canyon side my level on my shoulder— The way was steep and treacherous with broken stone and bowlder. And one tmcertain foothold brought a trouble unto me. For upon a rampant cactus I sat down so suddenlee. 
III. If you sit upon a thistle, it may startle you. 'tis true. Yet when you rise the thistle's thorns are growing where they grew; But the stickers of the cactus will desert the parent stem. And attach themselves to any that make over­tures to them. 
rv. As the squaw from out her husband's chin doth carefully erase Each sprouting hair that threateneth to beard his gentle face. So from me a friendly flagman undertook the extrication— Each individual thorn required a separate operation. 
V. 
And while the friendly flagman for those cruel thorns did look. Beneath his patient surgery I shivered and I « shook; And though he said they all were out, that is, all he could get— Is it fact or is it fancy?—sometimes I feel them yet! 
Undoubtedly it was the pretense of murderous wrath against a South Bend newspaper man, himself a hum­orist, who had sportively attacked Stace in print, that inspired the di­visional title, "Vindictive and man­iacal." First came the poet's rejoin­der: 
TO A NEIGHBORING EDITOR I. I've .a quiet disposition, but the unprovoked 
attack Which you made upon me recently desen-es an answer back. For talent conversational you've made me out a bear. And you've robbed me of the summers that have thinned my golden hair. 
II. Don't think your predecessors* luck to share, and bid defiance, Their assailants did not have recourse to mathematic science. Their "Gunnerj*, and Pnojectiles" they neg­lected, every one; But I've got a little formula for loading up a gun. 
HI. And before I kill you utterly and put you out o£ pain I'll make you roar for mercy—that you'll never do't again, ril heap inflictions on you with accelerating force. And put you through the torture of a mathe­matic course. 
IV. n i pass a polar axis through your center of gyration. And then reduce to lowest terms your "per­sonal equation." rU differentiate you from your forehead to your toes. And wind a helicoid around your editorial nose. 
V. In a hyperbolic spiral your ideas I'll entangle. With a radius vector varying inversely as 
your angle. I'll make you square the circle and triangulate the sphere. Then dismiss you on a tangent, with a cissoid in your ear. VI. Your horizontal parallax I'll next proceed to find With a double-barrelled telescope and levelUng­rod combined; I'll then project you upwards with intensify­ing speed Till the cosine of your alUtude is very smaU indeed. VII. Beyond the reach of gravity you'll find your­self at last. With asteroids annoying you and comets whirling past; And never to your earthly home serenely will you float. Till the infinite hyperbola shall meet its asymptote. (Continued on Page 90) 

BY 
JIM KEARNS, '34 





CAMPUS 
November wasn't all sack cloth 
and ashes with the student body, the 
Navy, Purdue, and Southern Cali­
forni a game s notwithstanding. 
Classes went along about as usual; 
so did extra-class activity. Witness: 
LECTURES: On Nov. 12th and 13th, Francis J. Sheed, member of England's famed Sheed and Ward publishing house, lectured to large audiences in Washington hall on "The Catholic Evidence Guild" and "The Modem Ideas of God." Also during his stay on the campus, Mr. Sheed visited one section of senior philosophy. Father Leo E. Ward's rational psychology class, gave a for­ty minute lecture on current trends in philosophical thought, and spent the remaining time answering ques­tions. 
On the first of the month, Henry 
H. Heimann, executive manager of the National Association of credit men, and a member of Gen. Hugh 
S. Johnson's industrial advisor y board, talked to the students of the College of Commerce. 
Also during the ' month, Charles Wilson, crime specialist of North­western University demonstrated a "Lie Detector" to the Law Club and a large group of interested students. Helping with the demonstration was Mr. Emery Smith, assistant attorney of the state of Illinois for the past nine years and also a member of the Northwestern faculty. 
Frank J. Duffy, first vice-president of the American Federation of La­bor, general secretary of the Car­penters and Joiners International Union, gave the students of the de­partments of economics a fine lec­ture on labor's attitude toward the NRA. The meeting was held on the afternoon of Nov. 23, with the at­tractive auditorium of the John P. Gushing, C.E. '06, Hall of Engineer­ing packed for the talk. 
MOVIES: Distinct from the regu­lar run of Washington hall movies were two shown during the month. The first, "The Shepherd of the Seven Hills," depicted many of the activities of Pope Pius XI during the period of his papacy. 
The second of the movies, "Throug h The Centuries," was shown for the first time here before being released to metropolitan thea­tres. The picture was distributed by the Beacon Films, Inc., a newly formed Catholic cinema service. 
CLUBS: The Economic Seminar continue d its regular meetings through the month, and elected 
Francis J. Linton, '34, of Chicago, 
as chairman. 
Robert J. Nachtwey, '34, of Lan­sing, Iowa, was elected president of the revivified German club, that con­tinues to increase its activity and promises to be among the most ac­tive of campus groups. 
Late in October the Cracow Club, campus Polish group, joined with the Polish societies of South Bend and Mishawaka in a program celebrating the 250th anniversary of the Battle of Vienna. 
John E. Conley, '34, of Waverly, 
N. Y., was elected president of the Press Club as the organization held regular meetings and made plans for a pre-Christmas banquet. 
The A.I.E.E. heard two speakers during the month. William Quails, superintendent of the elctrical de­partment of the city of South Bend, outlined plans and values of efficient street lighting. Dr. C. L. Snyder, also of South Bend, inventor of the "Arup," new type qf airplane, de­scribed his invention to the club. 
On the first of November, Mr. L. 
H. Means, of the personnel depart­ment. General Electric, interviewed all of the senior electrical engineers in re job prospects. 
DEBATE: Fourteen men were named on the varsity debate squad by coach William J. Coyne. Profes­sor Coyne also announced arrange­ments for debates with Michigan and Northwestern before the Christmas holidays. 
INTERHALL DEBATE: Under the direction of the Wranglers, the inter-hall debate season moved into its final stages. Sorin, discarding its mantle of indifference toward things labeled "interhall," produced a two-man team of John J. Locher, of Monticello, Iowa, and John O'Con­nor, of Kansas City, holdovers from last year's championship Howard team, and went through the first rounds of competition with sufficient ease to become favorite to win the Lemmer Trophy. 
PEP MEETINGS: Navy game— with no radio broadcast available, the student body heard the Navy game announced over a special loud­speaking system in the gym. A di­rect wire from Baltimore brought play by play details to the an­nouncer. The next day the entire student body greeted the team on its return to the campus. 
At the Purdue pep meeting, held Nov. 10, Captain Ed Krause, '34, as­sistant coach Nordy Hoffmann, '33, and Tim Galvin, '16, were the speakers. 
The night before the U.S.C. game 

the biggest of the year's pep ses­
sions was held. Captain Ray Bran­
cheau, '34, Coach "Hunk" Anderson, 
'22, Robert Proctor, '04, Arch Ward, 
'21, sports editor of the Chicago 
Tribune, and Ted Busing, famed Col­
umbia system announcer, were the 
speakers. Features: fifteen minutes 
of fireworks, a four minute ovation 
for "Hunk" before he spoke, and an­
other about as long after he finished. 
DANCES: Two informal football dances following Purdue and U.S.C. games. The first was sponsored by the Senior Class with Ray Waters, '34, of Perth Amboy, N. J., chair­man. The S.A.C. sponsored the 
U.S.C. game dance, Joseph Condon, '34, of Brockton, Mass., was chair­man. 
The Chicago Club sponsored a for­mal the night of the Northwestern game. Held in the Cameo Room of the Morrison hotel with Cory Lynn furnishing the music, the dance drew about 150 couples. President John Quirk of the club, and general chair­man John Kiely, made the arrange­ments. 
The Villagers held their annual Thanksgiving dance at the Erskine country club. South Bend, the night before Thanksgiving. John DeWnde and Jack Mullen, club president and dance chairman respectively, were in charge. 
TRIPS: Approximately 600 stu­dents and faculty members made the official student trip to Evanston for the Northwestern game Nov. 18. Prof. Casasanta's band made its only foreign appearance of the year at that game. 
The Metropolitan, New Jersey, and Connecticut clubs of the campus jointly sponsored a special train to New York for the Army game. More than 100, slightly below the normal figure for the trip, took advantage of the chance for forty hours in a day coach, a look at the Empire State Bldg., and, for most of them, turkey at home. 
JUGGLER: Joe Degnan's Novem­ber offering was the "Big Game" number of the Juggler. Considerably Improved over its preceding issue, the humor magazine Iiit a new high for campus sales. One cartoon, "You ought to see them when they're win­ning," by Art-editor Gerry Doyle, '35, of Chicago, made the number worth while if nothing else had ap­peared. But there was plenty more. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1933 
man to set the stage for another Irish guards, supposedly weak all touchdown. season, opened cavernous holes in the 
ATHLETICS You could almost hear the murmur Cadet line during Lukats' drive to 
(Continued from Pajre 75) 

of the occasions when some individual or other decided to go dumb, berserk, unorthodox, and native all at once. They had played for keeps. 
The record of Notre Dame's oppon­

ents shows the kind of football the 
Irish played. Pitt and Southern Cal­
ifornia were the only teams to win 
their games' after they had played 
Notre Dame. 
Came the Army game and Notre Dame went out again to play for keeps. In the first quarter Nick Lu­kats, Fred Carideo, and Ray Bran­cheau slashed their way to the Army six-yard line. On fourth down, quar­terback Reyman (Buddy) Bonar called for a pass to Brancheau which caught Army flatfooted, despite the pronounced pass situation. Brancheau was clear, the pass came true from the hand of Nick Lukats, and it kept right on going, through the out­stretched hands of Brancheau; We are not writing this to disparage Brancheau because we couldn't do it. The hand-shaking and back-slapping his mates inflicted on him would have done the average politician in. It certainly showed the respect the lads all have for Brancheau's unquench­able spirit, his gentlemanly demeanor and his football ability, bitter as the pill was to swallow. 
A fumble by Lukats a short while later paved the way for an Army touchdown. Andy Pilney shot a third down pass into the hands of an Army 
BASKETBALL 

The prospects for a winning bas­ketball season at Notre Dame are al­most as high as those for the foot­ball team were when we started dop­ing the season three issues ago. 
But Coach George Keogan won't admit it. His grounds for pessimism are as follows: 
1.
 The loss of Johnny Baldwin, as nifty a guard as ever wore rubber soles; and Leo Keating, a speedy, de­pendable reserve forward, through graduation. 

2.
 The loss for several games at least of Big Don Elser, giant soph­omore fullback who was hurt in foot­ball and who will not join the basket­ball squad until after Christmas. He is being groomed for a guard berth 


•where he can utilize his 6 feet 3 inches in taking 'em off the back­board and starting the offense. 
3. The 24-game schedule which ap­pears in another column. It is as tough as any Notre Dame has ever go througK" the stadium: "So that's what 'Hunk' Anderson has been up against all fall. The poor guy. To think they're after his scalp!" 
The rest of the game is ancient his­tory already, and we're writing this the day after the game. How Lukats, about whom we've said lots of dis­paraging things up to this point, drove and fought, and slashed his way through the confident Army sec­ondary; how Wayne Millner, the scrappy and rugged sophomore left end twice fooled the Cadets on two end-around plays for a net gain of 20 yards; how Lukats again and again laid punts dead inside the Army 10-yard line (where the Cadet safety men would have nothing to do with them), how Lukats finally drove the last tivo yards to the Army goal line for the first touchdown, how Mill­ner blocked an Army punt and recov­ered it for a second touchdown, how Bonar dropkicked the point after the first touchdown to give the Irish the \actor}'' they most wanted. 
This brief recital of events doesn't begin to tell you of the fine spirit of sportsmanship exhibited by both teams. Coach "Hunk" Anderson's first words after the game were: "We were lucky to win. Army has a fine team." 
It doesn't begin to tell how the Notre Dame line played through 60 terrific minutes ivithout a replace­ment e-xcept at right guard where Anderson used both Harry Wunsch and Joe Pivamik, because both are seniors. It doesn't tell you how the 
the first touchdown, Capt. Hughie Devore, Tom Roach, Ed Krause, Wimsch, Pivamik, Tom Gorman, Lukats, Brancheau, Steve Banas, Frank LaBome, and John (Red) Tobin were playing their last game for Notre Dame. They proved that they belong, without any ques­tion to the Fighting Irish tradition. Freddie Carideo, who went in at fullback to replace Don Elser, was playing his first game of the season. He made exactly 33 yards in 19 at­tempts, and he was a constant source of worry to the Cadet sec­ondary. His slants off the weak side pulled the Army secondary over to Notre Dame's left, leaving the right side open for Lukats to run at will, 20 times for 80 yards. "Red" Tobin, about whom you haven't heard much, was supposed to be weak on pass defense. He had been shifted to fullback during the week preceding the game. But, in the few minutes he played he intercepted one Army pass and knocked down an­other. His blocking was a work of art. Individual performances could be named in glowing terms for every member of the squad, for it was a team victory rather than an individ­ual one, even for Lukats, Millner, and Bonar. If it did nothing else, we hope it taught the sophomores who will carry the burden next year that Notre Dame does not win just because it is Notre Dame. It fights to win. The boys com­ing up have their model. We know they -will follow it. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME VARsrrr BASKETBALL ROSTER. 1933-31 
Name Pos. Home Totcti 
"Edward .loscph Alberts F LoKansport, Ind Donald Lewis Allen G Chicago Adelbcrt Chamisso Baur F Chicago 
*»Leo Jerome Crowe G Lafayette, Ind. 
Daniel Joseph Cunha F St. Petersburg. Fla. John Edward DeMots C Minot. N. D. Donald Lewis Elser G Gary. Ind. Vincent Joseph Fehlip: G St. Louis. Mo. .Tohn Francis Ford F Indianapolis. Ind. 
Edmund Francis Goldsmith F Northboro, Mass. John Andrew Hopkins F Elizabeth, N. J. Gcorjrc Martin Ireland G Madison. Wis. 
"John Joseph Jordan F Chicago ••Capt. Ed W. Krause G Chicago Victor Herbert Mettler F Hammond. Ind. 
•James Russell Newbold G Rushville, Ind. Michael John O'Connor F Indianapolis, Ind. Joseph Cornelius O'Kane F Washington, Ind. Lawrence ThoF. O'Neill G Albany, N. Y. Martin Joseph Peters F Peoria, 111. Thomas Joseph Treacy G Montdair, N, J. 
••Joseph Thomas Voesele C-F Peoria, III. Frank Chase Wade G Howe, Ind. George Roland Wentworth F Bucksport, Me. 
Denotes basketball monogram 
Yrs :. on Prep Age. Wt. lit. Sid. 
Logansport, H. S. 21 165 6:2 2 St. Mel H. S. 18 187 6:2 0 De Paul H. S. IS 160 6:1 0 Jefferson H. S. 21 170 5:9 2 St. Rita H. S. 20 loS 5:8 1 Minot Senior H. S. 18 165 6:2 It Horace Mann H. S. 19 215 6:3 0 St. Louis Univ. H. S. 20 160 6: 2 Cathedral H. S. 19 165 5:10 0 St. John's H. S. 20 165 5:11 0 St. Benedict's Prep 19 165 5:9 
u 
Campion Prep. 20 175 6: 0 Quigley Prep. 22 ISO 5:11 1 Dc LaSalle H. S. 20 205 6:3 2 Hammond H. S. 21 160 5:10 1 Graham H. S. 21 175 5:11 2 Cathedral H. S. 20 168 6:3 0 Wash. Catholic H. S. 20 173 5:11 1 Christian Bros. Acad. 21 184 6:1 2 Spalding Institute 19 205 6:3 0 Im. Conception H.S. 19 175 6: 0 Spalding Institute 23 177 6:1 2 Lima Cons. H.S. 19 170 6:1 0 Bucksport, Seminary _19.., -150 5:10 0 

faced and includes four more games than are usually played. 
4.
 The loss for the first two weeks of Capt. Ed Krause, all-American center the past two years, and Marty Peters, a sophomore forward from Peoria, who apparently has the mak­ings of a great cage .star. Both will be out shortly after the Army game, but it will take them some time to adjust themselves to the popular winter sport and to get the right muscles in the right shape, or some­thing. Both stand 6 feet 3 inches tall and weigh more than 200 pounds. A basketball to them is just a marble to you or me. 

5.
 The chance exists of going down in defeat in the early games before George is able to get his best com­bination formed. This may cause the boys to press in later games and to go into a prolonged losing streak. 

6.
 The strain of the 11-game ^vin­ning streak which this year's team inherits from last year's. 


Enough of bear stories. The fore­going jottings are all true, but, ever-optimistic, we can see nothing but a great year. 
Capt. Ed Krause at center, Joe (Arms) Voegele at one forward and Eddie Alberts or Peters at the other, Leo Crowe and either Don Allen or Elser at guards. There's a team with heighth, weight, stamina, and everything else it takes, with the ex­ception of experience in two posts. 
It was inexperience in several posi­tions which wrecked the football team's chances of more victories, and since we went to extremes in predict­ing a great football year, we'll go to the opposite side in predicting, face­tiously enough, a terrible basketball year. 
Keogan's N. DI. Record 
1923-24—Won 15. Lost 8. 1924-25—Won 11. Lost 10. 1925-26—Won 19. Lost 1. 192S-2r—Won 19. Lost 1 1927-28—Won 18. Lost 3. 1928-29-Won 15. lost D. 1929-30—Won 13. Lost 5. 1930-31—Won 12. Lost S. 1931-32—Won 18. Lost 2, 1932-33—Won 16. Lost 6. Total: Won 1.57, Lost t19. 


TRAC K 

The cross-country seaso n was : good; bad; fair; indifferent; all de­pending upon how you look at it. 
Coach John Nicholson's lads showed great improvement over last year and now "Nick" is kicking himself for giving them such a tough schedule. They won from Carnegie Tech, 21 to 34; "from Pittsburgh, 26 to 29, and then met Michigan State. 
Well, Michigan State was good enough to place four men among the 
'33-34 Cagre Schedule 

Dec. 4—^Kalamazoo College, Here. Dec. 9—^Northwestern, Here. Dec. IS^Ball State Teachers, Here. Dec. 15—^Albion College, Here. Dec. 19—Purdue, Here. Dec. 22—Bradley Poly. Inst., Away. Dec. 30—^Northwestern, Away. Jan. 4—^U. of Arizona, Here. Jan. 6—Michigan State, Away. Jan. 9—^Marquette, Here. Jan. 13—Butler, Here. Jan. 20—Pittsburgh.Away. Jan. 24—Chicago, Here. Jan. 31—Valparaiso, Here. Feb. 3—^U. of Detroit, Away. Feb. 6—Minnesota, Here. Feb. 10—^Xavier (Cincinnati), Away. Feb. 12—^Temple, Away. Feb. 17—Pittsburgh, Here. Feb. 21—Michigan State, Here. Feb. 24—Butler, Away. Mar. 3—Ohio State, Here. Mar. 10—Marquette, Away. Mar. 12—Minnesota, Away. 
first 20 and win the N.C.A.A.A.A. meet in New York from 180 repre­sentatives of other schools. And Michigan State was good enough to beat a good Notre Dame team, 19 to 37. 
It was the same story in the Cen­tral Intercollegiate conference meet, which the Spartans won easily, with a couple of other teams in ahead of Notre Dame. Indiana and Purdue met Notre Dame in a triangular meet, but Indiana is another of those fine teams, one which has won every meet in Big Ten competition this year, and the Irish had to be satis­fied with a good second, far ahead of the Boilermakers. 
Getting down, however, to the pros­pects for the coming track season, we find that the record of the team \vill depend largely on the schedule, and the schedule will be drawn up Dec. 9. 
Coach John Nicholson admits his boys will be stronger than last year. He has lost all his sprinters and dis­cus throwers, but will have capable performers in every other event. 
Taking them in order, we find the following to be true, as far as Nich­olson cares to be quoted, at least: 
Sprints—Eddie Gough and Fran Murphy were lost by graduation. There are no returning veterans worthy of mention. Two sophomores Pilney of the football team and Fraw­ley, showed some promise, as fresh­men last year and in high school. 
Middle distances—Capt. Fred Mac-Beth, and Gough were lost by gradu­ation. Two returning veterans, Bow­dren and LaFrambois; and three sophomores, Eubly, Bernard, and McGrath, give Nicholson's team promise of strength in the 440-yard and 880-yard events. He has Jim Shiels and Bay Troy returning in the latter event and DuCassa, a sopho­more, showing lots of promise also in the 880. 
Distance Euns—Eddie King, Jake Bower, and Moran are returning for the mile event, while Capt. Joe Young, the lightest Notre Dame mon­ogram man in history at 124 pounds, and Norman Duke are excellent tim­ber for the longer g^d . Leo McFar­lane, a star in cross country, will run either the mile or two-mile. He is a sophomore. 
Pole Vault—Prospects are only fair in this event, with Edwards, Caven­der, and Howard of last year's team all returning. None of the three is phenomenal, but it will take a good team to slam the Irish in this event. 
Shot Put—The presence of Don Elser and Joe Sullivan of the football team, both sophomores, has strength­ened this event "considerably. Finkel is returning from last year's squad also. Sullivan was interscholastic in­door champion for the nation while at St. John's of Brooklyn. He was also national Catholic prep champion. Elser holds the Indiana state inter­scholastic record. 
Broad Jump—^Most of the points in this event will tide with a sopho­more named Meagher, since Eddie Gough has been graduated after fail­ing twice by fractions to break the Notre Dame record. 
High jump--Vincent Murphy, who won most of his starts last year, will perform again, and you can count on five points almost every time he com­petes. 
Hurdles—^Very promising. Jim Fa­gan, who gets more out of less natur­al ability than perhaps any other man on the squad, will knife in there for points in almost any man's meet. He is a perfect example of what un­relenting work will do. The sopho­mores ^vill help out a lot in both the highs and the lows. Francis (Mike) Layden, the football playing brother of Elmer, could be a great hurdler if he didn't want to be a football play­er, too, but even so he's good enough to be the man for other teams to try to beat. Sullivan, not the weight man, and Elser, are also good hurdlers. Link, on whom Coach Nicholson has been working all winter, is a very promising prospect. "Nick" was an old Olympic hurdler in his day, so you can depend on him turning out men up to the standards set by John­ny O'Brien and Roy Bailie, two of his products. 
Relay teams—^The four-mile relay team will be hard to beat. The dis­tance medley will be a shade less im­portant, and the two-mile and mile teams are both good, but not excel­lent. 

Notre Dame 
(A reprint—through the courtesy of the Football Program of 193S) 
• The thousands gathered here today are interested chiefly in one phase of Notre Dame — the athletic. 
There are two others which, as any student or alumnus will tell you, are given considerably more emphasis at Notre Dame than athletics have ever had or ever will have. These two phases are the academic and religious life of the students. 
Every facilitj' for all branches of athletics is provided that students may not have to go elsewhere for their exer­cise. But there is no compulsion about athletics. You may take them or leave them. 
• But, considering the academic side, the students must attend all but three classes a semester; they must maintain an average of 70 to pass their courses; they must maintain a general average of 77 for four years to receive a di­ploma. There are countless other "musts" which are left up to the individual pro­fessors. 
Spiritually, the student is given every opportunity to live up to the practices of the Catholic church, if he be a Catholic himself. There is a defi­nite religious program at Notre Dame designed to form religious habits in stu­dents which will guide their daily lives after they have left the campus. 
• Morning and evening prayer are compulsory. Privileges, such as permis­sion to go to town or to leave the campus for week-ends, are denied if the student becomes lax in the obsen-ance of this fundamental rule. Then, if a student docs not approach the sacraments at rea­sonable intervals, his case is referred to the prefect of religion. The impediments in his spiritual way are cleared up for him. 
Religion is a part of practically all student activities, academic and athletic. The athletic teams dedicate each game to some saint. Inspiration for many a lax Catholic has been given by the football men on their trips, attending Mass in a body at a church near their place of lodging, the morning of the game. A player who had the reputation of being the most fearless on the squad, once con­fided as follows: 
"If I have been to Mass and have received the sacraments, I can let my­self go in a game. If I haven't, I am hesitant about diving into a scrimmage or making a tackle." 
• Maybe here is the answer to Notre Dame's football success. 
The never-say-die spirit of the ath­letic teams at Notre Dame might be at­tributed to a number of things. The Irish football and basketball teams o£ the past have been especially well-known as great second half teams. Irish fans hope that the opposition will score first in a tough game, because then they know Notre Dame will come back with a rush which is often strong enough to win. 
• Tradition plays a strong part in this spirit. Missionaries from France came to Notre Dame 250 years ago. They founded a mission within 10 miles of the present site of Notre Dame. Their hardships were manifold. Bitter cold winters, lack of food and shelter, at­tacks by the Indians, and a thousand other discomforts and hardships dogged them, but did not break their zealous spirit. 
Nearly 150 years ago Father Stephen Badin was ordained, the first priest or­dained in this country. He came to the French mission and moved it to Notre Dame several years later. He was fol­lowed nearly a century ago by the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C, who, with a small band of brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, founded the University of Notre Dame du Lac on the shores of Lake St. Mary's. Father Sorin, the founder and first president, was a tireless worker. 
• He is reputed to have made 42 At­lantic crossings in an effort to secure funds and art objects, and to supply the other material needs of his new com­munity. He was a close personal friend of the Emperor Napoleon III of France and the Empress Eugenie, who furnished Notre Dame with several priceless ar­ticles of religious use. The gold cloth vestments given by these rulers of France are still used for high feasts of the church. 
Father Sorin had more than his share of financial troubles and other difficulties. Twice the administration building was destroyed by fire. Each time it was rebuilt. So great was his faith that he returned gifts of money for the construction of the third admin­istration building, saying he preferred to rely on God's providence to see the work through. Before the bricks were 
-- '•'•-'r'.-V-t-Stjiiajaa-iAJB^SE^S^iiSSJifViilli. 

Three Phases 
cool, he and the other members of the religious community, the faculty, and the student body were cleaning them. The fire occurred just before the Easter vacation. The new building was ready for occupancy, although not quite com­pleted, the following September. 
• The Cure of Ars told Father Sorin that his school would go through 75 years of hardships before blossoming forth in its full strength and vigor. There were hardships in those 75 years, but somehow Notre Dame always made its way. Its scholastic rating was raised constantly. Its enrollment increased with each succeeding year. As the depository for the Catholic church for years its archives became the most treasured in the nation. Early professors like Dr. Al­bert F. Zahm, LL.D. and Professor Jerome Greene won acclaim for the school by their experiments in aviation and wireless respectively. The basis of the art collection was formed. The phys­ical equipment of the campus was en­larged and modernized from year to year. 
The prediction of the Cure of Ars came true almost e.\acdy 75 years after it was made. It was at that time that Knute Rockne, whose football teams did so much to bring the attention of the world to Notre Dame's athletic academic, and spiritual programs, was appointed coach and director of ath­letics. 
• The diamond jubilee celebration in 1917 dates one of the fastest and most complete developments in the history of educational institutions. It was held 16 years ago. Since then Notre Dame athletic teams have reached the peak, far above most other schools of the same size. 
The following buildings were erect­ed: eight residence halls, the college of law building, the department of archi­tecture building, the Edward N. Hur­ley college of commerce building, the John F. Gushing hall of engineering, the finest and largest dining halls of their kind in the country, a new power plant, a new stadium which replaced the Car­tier field stands built during the same period, and numerous smaller structures. 
• Enrollment jumped from 587 in 1915 to 3,200 in 1930-31 and a volun­tary limit of 3,200 was set at that time so that Notre Dame might not lose its boarding school atmosphere for an im­personal spirit. 
It was at the time of the diamond jubilee that the Rev. John F. O'Hara, 
C. S. G., was made prefect of religion. Now he is also vice-president, assistant provincial of the community, and chair­man of the athletic board of control as well as prefect of religion. A Jack-of-all­trades, he is master of all. But he will al­ways be to Notre Dame men the man who developed spirituality to its most spiritual yet most practical plane for them. The gift of making men do things spiritual for themselves is his. His daily "Religious Bulletin" with its witti­cisms, homely philosophy, advice, an­nouncements and theology J_ sugar coated with campus verna I cular is eagerly sought and read by every student. 
The academic program was improv­ing, as we have said, through all the early years. Its strides became more and more rapid during the administration of the Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C. S.C, president from 1905 to 1919. 
•
 The three succeeding presidents were the Very Rev. James A. Burns, C. 

S.
 C , present provincial of the Congre­gation of the Holy Cross, the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C, S. C., and the in­cumbent, the Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, C. S. C. 


They took advantage of every chance to further Notre Dame's inter­ests, and now opportunities are more plentiful than in the early days. Notre Dame could aSord to raise scholastic barriers that many greater schools did not ask their prospective students and current students to hurdle. Notre Dame was so well established in 1929 that Father O'Donnell could start work on a building program which has cost near­ly $3,000,000 during the depression. 
• There are still many things the priests of Notre Dame dream of for their school in their campaign to make it the greatest Catholic university in the country. But the essential things are here, just as they were in the first days. The indomitable spirit, the vigor of young men, the tradition of men now old or dead, the religious zeal of a monastery, the academic fervor of the faculty members, priests and laymen — all the intangible things which went to see Notre Dame through its early days are still here. 
The other desired things in the way of physical equipment will come, for Notre Dame has undeniably blossomed into its full strength and vigor. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1933 
VIII. Then beware!—it is the season now for maples to be tapped Learn wisdom from the sugar camp, before your strength is sapped; For though you estimate yourself the heavier man to be. Yet mine's the greater modulus of elasticitee. 
ON RECEIVING FURTHER OBLOQUY FROSr THE SAME SOURCE 
AIR:—The Wearing of the Green. 

I. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit,* rest! Disordered mind, be calm; Nor mingle angry clangor with the chimes of Notre Dame. Such names as "liar." "arrant thief." defile a gentle pen: It is not seemly for a girl to fleer at learned men. 
IL But though I'm not a "bandit," I can teach you this, fair maid: A\'Tien you wish to use a weapon, do not hold it by the blade. If there's naught in Colorado save the filling of the purse. And your aims are all prosaic, why do you rush into verse? 
ni. 

Love gold, if that*s your nature, but it will 
not help your luck To make the Car of Poetry a vehicle for truck. Cast no more wistful glances at the laurel's 
sacred boughs. But bind a wreath of sage-brush on your mer­cenary brows. 
IV. 0 Plutus, filthy Plutus! do your prophetesses think To sell the bright Pierian wave at fifteen cents a drink? Or send it bottled C. O. D. with catalogues of "cures," .\nd "chemical analysis?" Apollo this endures? 
V. The Muse affronted stands aghast, her lute away she flings ^^^^en bid to sing of postage stamps—the nasty, sticky things; Nor can we wonder, seeing you defy celestial ire. That when you next invoke the Muse, a Fury should inspire. 
VI. 1 see you.on the canyon's brink, the Fury to you dings, A burro is your Pegasus—you take his ears for wings; An d when you make the fatal plunge. without your "flying horse," The outraged Nine assembled chant a pxn o'er your corse. 
P. S.—^Please stamp here. 
To convey an idea of the varied moods and tastes of this remarkable man, I offer the astronomical canto, dated August 1884, and entitled, 
SHADOWS CAST BY THE MORNING STAR 
No streak of dawn had tinged the cloudless skies. The crescent moon had set, and yet a ray Of creamy lustre with its glad surprise 
*
 Shakespeare, I think; but my credits some­times embarrass me more than my debits. 

*
 Those conversant with bui^o nature will ask no explanation of how this could be. 


Awaked me. Phosphor, harbinger of day. 
Threw shadows of my lattice on the floor 
Distinctly traced. A thousand stars or more 
Shone in the East: the glowing Charioteer 
And Leda's twins with crowns of lambent fire. 
Belted Orion, and the maiden choir 
Of Pleiads; red-eyed Saturn, too, was near. 
Cross-lights from these too feeble were by far 
To fur the edges of those shadows cast. 
Transcendent joy, by shade of misery past. 
Is measured, like the light of this fair star. 
NoxnE DA3IE, August, 1SS4. 
Stace was one of the rare classical scholars, who used his Latin and Greek literature for his daily delight. In this respect, as in his personal preferences among the flavors of in­ternational letters and particularly, our o\vn older classics, he was of the Queen Anne type, and strongly sug­gested Dr. Goldsmith and Alexander Pope. Nothing could better convey the roguish character of his Muse, than the delicious mock antiquarian notes entitled 
THE COMMENTATOR A VISIOS OF THE UEilOTE FVTVltE, 

Let US launch ourselves—we that write for postcritj-—into the abyss of futurity, and im­agine ourselves arrived at a time when the language we now speak shall have become surrounded by the halo of antiquity. Let tis take up a volume of "Ancient American An­thologj*," and thus read the remaining frag­ment of "Kathleen Mavoumeen," enriched with copious notes, by Dr. Fudge: 
Kathleen Mavoumeen,* the grey- dawn is breaking,' The * 'om * of the *unter is 'card on the *ill.* The lark^ from her light wing the bright dew* is shaking, Kathleen Mavoumeen! what! slumbering still;« 
NOTES. 

' Stavoitmcen—The ancient Americans ap­pear always to have had two names—some­times more. The last was the family name seldom mentioned in lyric poetry. This is a remarkable instants to the contrary. The gens Marounii^cn was quite a distinguished one among the ancients. 
-Grey—^The name of a color; but what color it was has long been the subject of dispute. From the constant recurrence of the epithet "rosy," applied to the daxvn, we should imag­ine that the two terms were synonymous, "srcy" being used instead of "rosy" for the sake of the metre. Now "rosy" it is well knon-n. signifies the color of the rose-"Grey" therefore, undoubtedly means red. Professor Flinders (absurdly enough) imagines that grey signified the dull, dingy color sometimes ob­served in the morning sky, and instances the "honor due to grey hairs," so frequently ad­verted to in the classics. He thinks that grey hair indicates the hair of eld age. This is a lamentable error. The ancient Americans were not particularly respectful to old age, but we all know their extreme regard for red hair. 
' BrcaJiing—"To breah" is properly a tran­sitive verb. Hence, we naturally ask, "What does the dawn break?" To some, this passage has presented considerable difficulty, but we think it is easily disposed of. The dawn, of course, breaks the vionotony that would soon super\*ene, were the continuance of night per­petual. 
* The 'om of the 'ttntcr is 'card on the 'Ut— 
The common version has it: "The horn of the 
hunter is heard on the hill," but as the erudite 
and sagacious Gammon justly observes, the constant, recurrence of the aspirate resembles the pantiiig and puffing of a steam engine, and sadly mars the harmony of the poem. "We have thought it an emendation to substitute the epiritus Icnis of the cockney dialect, so often met with in the works of Dickens, and which was cultivated by the inhabitants of London, a celebrated eastern colony of the ancient Americans. This reading is supported by one of two manuscripts, and is undoubtc<ny the original. 
* " *Om—^The ancient American hunters used to carry their powder in 'onut, or horns, as the common edition has it. How these "horjis" could be heard does not at first seem evident, but when we reflect on the careless habits of our ancestors, and particularly on their prac­tice of smoking cigars while loading their guns, it is not surprising that explosions of the powder should frenquently have happened, so often, indeed, as to have been ordinary- ma­tutinal occurrences. Now, the explosion of a powder horn would undoubtedly have been audible to a considerable distance, and al­though the hypothesis is rather frightful to those who attempt to realize the actual social condition of the ancient Americans, yet it throws a very satisfactory light upon an other­wise obscure passage, and is therefore valu­able to the classical scholar. 
• 'III—Flinders this this word should bo ''hill" an eminence, hut, in view of a preced­ing hypothesis {sec note'5 supra), we should rather take it to mean "ill"—evil—a severe reflection on evil habit of loading guns while smoking cigars. 
'Lark—^Whether this is the name of a real bird, or wether the word "icing," which oc­curs in the same line, is entirely figurative, is a very doubtful question. Dr. Bargy supports the bird theory, and claims that it is the same bird as the phoenix or jacksnipe. On the 
. use of the word "lark'* in the sense of "frolic" see Lively "On Ancient American Amuse­ments." 
' Dew—^This is properly the subject of the 
• sentence, the prose order of the words being: 
"The bright rfnc is shaking the lark from her 
light wing." That is. the heavy dews falling on the bird's wing, cause it to tremble in its flight. We must admit that the hyperbole is a little strained, particularly if the bird theory 
{sec note 7 supra) be correct. Professor Damper, howet-er. has shown that in former times dew always fell in the morning, and was much heavier than at present. * • Still—The "stUV was an instrument used in the manufacture of whiskey, a beverage to the use of which the ancient Americans were very much addicted. The exclamation "tchat!" indicates the surprise of the speaker at find­ing the "still" slumbering—that is, unem­ployed—the exigencies of social life usually keeping the "still" going day and night. The person addressed in the song, viz.: "A'a(Ween Marourncen," was probably a saloon keeper who made his own whiskey. Regarding the form of the ancient "still." but little is known ex­cept that there were worms in it. That these were common earth-worms is hardly credible, although the celebrated Diet of "Worms shows that even they were extensively eaten by our ancestors. Something more like the vermicelli of the Italians was probably the work of the "stUU" Professor Flinders here again makes an egregious blunder. He confounds this word with the adverb "still," and makes it simply modify slumbering, which again he refers to 
Kathleen Mavoumeen, and reaches the climax of absurdity by attributing the feminine gen­der to the latter! Think of a delicate female 
December, 1933 

sluBiberine peacefully ia the midst of diaboli­cal explosions, such as arc hinted at in the 

Leo Hassenauer/20, Assistant U.S. District Attorney 
second line of this remarkable poem.* We are 
sorry that no more than this frsBment re­mains to us, for wc are sure that the context would utterly confute the ridiculous conjec­tures of men like Flinders. 

It was a pretty compliment Presi­dent Cleveland paid the poet, scien­tist and scholar, when he commis­sioned Stace, American scientific eK­pert, to represent our country at the Paris World Exposition of 1890. As amusing as anything he ever did in verse, were his regular reports in let­ters from Paris to the Scholastic en­titled "Diary of a Scientific Ex-spurt" 
A man of delicate frame and dur­ing the final third of his life of frail health, suffering constant and severe pain. Professor Stace became through patience, a hero to the Faculty and students, to whom, on account of his kindly nature, his bright disposition, and his charm of speech, he had long been a beloved friend. The shadows gathered about him in the spring of 1890, and at five o'clock on the eve­ning of Sept. 20, the tolling of the De Profimdis bell brought grief and pain with the announcement that the unique and wholly admirable scholar, gentleman and friend had passed away. Among those still surviving who knew him, he still has his place in affectionate remembrance. His grave set among the tombs of the priests, brothers and professors whom he loved, is marked with an exquisite little,. Celtic cross, on which is in­scribed: 
Pray for the soul of ARTHUR JOSEPH STACE Bom at Berwick, Eng., Jan. 28, 1838 Died at Notre Dame, Sept. 20, 1890. 
Poet - Scholar - Christian. , May he rest in peace! 
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Positions Offered 
_1. Real estate firm, Chica­go, needs two or three young men for selling. Seems better th:.n usual prospects. 
Positions Wanted 
1.
 Recent Commerce grad­uate, with considerable bank­ing experience, desires connec­tion in Chicago district. 

2.
 Recent Law graduate, Chicago, ,;^'ith 414 years rail­road ofBc'e experience, seeks opening, legal or otherwise. 

3.
 Recent Physical Educa­tion graduate, Chicago. 

4.
 Recent Electrical Engi­neering graduate. East. 

5.
 Recent Commerce grad­uate. Middle West, willing to start at bottom in advertising agency. 


Further information as to any of the situations listed here may be had by addressing the Alumni Office. 
Leo Hassenauer, '20, whose recent appointment as first assistant to the United States Attorney for the north-em district of Illinois, was announced in the October issue of ALUMNUS, was 
LEO HASSENAUER, '20 
Ability and Contacts 

the central figure in a political story appearing in the Chicago Tribune on Nov. 17 under the by-line of Parke Brown, widely-known political writer. Mr. Hassenauer's headquarters are in Chicago. 
Mr. Brown was discussing the in­fluence which Harold I. Ickes, secre­tary of the interior and public works administrator, and Donald R. Rich-berg, general counsel for the NRA, wield in the Roosevelt program, al­though, according to numerous com­plainants, speaking through Mr. Brown, both are Republicans. The story is centered particularly on fed­eral patronage in Chicago. It says in part: 
"It was a Richberg man who landed the best of the three • places under discussion, that of first assistant United States attorney under Green. Last August this post' went to Leo J. Hassenauer, who also is believed to have had the Ickes o. k., as his prac­tice of law began in the days when Richberg and Ickes were law partners in the firm of Richberg, Ickes, Davies and Lord, an association that term­inated in 1923, Richberg and Ickes separating. 
"Hassenauer followed Richberg and with the two also was associated Da­vid E. Lilienthal, now general coun­sel for the Tennessee valley authority, the governmental unit in charge of Muscle Shoals. From 1923 until Rich­berg went to Washington last spring Hassenauer was associated in many of the Richberg cases, including the city gas rate fight, the battle for railroad valuations, and the drafting of full crew train laws. 
"But he was not entirely outside of Ickes' ken. Secretary Ickes' wife, Mrs. Anna Wilmarth Ickes, is a state rep­resentative from the Seventh district. Their Illinois home is in Hubbard Woods. Hassenauer lives in nearby Wilmette and in 1931 and 1932 he was chairman of the legislative com­mittee of the American Legion or­ganization in the Seventh district. 
"Thus Richberg and Ickes are both given credit for the appointment of the new first assistant district attor­ney and, it is rumored, they are sup­porting him for the district attorney's job if their reported efforts to keep Green in the post—in which it is said they are supported by Senators La FoUette and Norris—are not success­ful. 

B. Kanaley Heads Lay Trustees 
(Continued from Page 81) 

Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, dean of the college of arts and let­ters, who was elected president of the Catholic Philosophy of America. 
Prof. James Reyniers, honored by international biology authorities for his new method of isolating single cells announced last spring. His de­partment was reported to be work­ing at present on two very important problems which will be announced soon. 
Fellowships in the American As­sociation for the Advancement of Science were awarded Rev. Francis 
J. Wenninger, C.S.C, and Prof. Ed­ward Maurus. ^ Bequests announced during the year were: 
A $1,000 gift for the endowment fund of the University by the late Mrs. Kate E. Herbert, of Chicago, and an annual income of §695 each, for six scholarships, to be appor­tioned among the students of six southern states, provided in the will of the late Augustus F. Meehan, of the class of 1890. 
Service credit to the amount of $116,000 has been allowed this year to 484 students. 
Too late for the above report came the announcement on Nov. 25 of a bequest of $25,000 in the will of the late Edward N. Hurley, for aiding those students who have to pay half of their way through school by working. 
The bequest to Notre Dame for this purpose was significant of Mr. Hurley's interest in Notre Dame and the boys who are students here. 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
IMPORTANT NOTE TO CLUBS 
Because of the recurring misun­derstandings that have arisen he-tween campus Clubs representing geographical locations and the Local Alumni Clubs in those areas, the 
•University has ruled that no campus Club shall be allowed under any cir­cumstances to conduct a Christmas Dance in its home area -nrithout iirst securing the sanction and coopera­tion of the corresponding Local Alumni Club. 
This ruling of course is the Uni­versity's recognition of the prioritj' of the rights of the Local Alumni Club to have at least an advisorj­participation in a manifestation of Notre Dame activity -which has reached highly creditable proportions in most localities, but which, through this very strength, has in others on occasion been the cause of embar­rassment to the alumni and the Uni­versit}-. 
This ruling should do away with most of the existing friction, which is as unnatural as friction of a ser­ious and continuous nature between parent and child. The boys at Notre Dame come from your community, spend a veiy short time here at most, and then return for their careers to join your Club. The new program of promotion announced in this is­sue should blend this student rela­tionship to much better advantage and eliminate the useless barriers that have been allowed to grow. 
But in the meantime, the ruling places a responsibility on you. In­dependence is a familiar characteris­tic of undergraduates, and an im­patience with the restraints of an older generation. You may find the boys at school seeming, especially in this first year of the edict, distrust­ful of your motives. To secure the best results, try to meet them at least half-way — more if you can. The quicker you build up the friend­ship of this year's campus Club and next year's, the quicker will be the transition to the new relationship where you will work together in communitj' projects of a Notre Dame nature for what is bound to be your mutual advantage. 
The University has made the rul­ing the Alumni Clubs have been seeking. The success of the ruling depends, in this first year or two particularly, upon the wisdom of the Local Alumni Clubs. 
CHICAGO 
Any doubts you may have had, in the absence of prolific penmanship on the part of Bill Kearney, as to 
Chicago's activity can be set at 
rest. (Some of those jobless stenog­
i-aphers or underpaid schoolma'ams 
ought to be willing to type out a 
little dictation for the sake of the 
practice. Bill.) 
Almost by accident, the Editor had the pleasure of attending a joint luncheon of the Notre Dame and Northwestern alumni, our alunmi be­ing guests of the Northwestern Club in the dining room of the Chicago Bar Association. Tug Wilson repre­sented Northwestern, and the Editor found himself, due to the coincident funeral of the late E. N. Hurley, representing the University. 
Austin McNichols carried the ban­ner of the Alumni Club, bolstered by a few of the fellows who had given Northwestern a few sentences for their football book. Freddie Collins, Jack Elder, Joe Rigali, and Norm Barry were among these. 
November 4, the Club held a "Loyalty Rally" at the Auditorium Hotel, getting the Navy-Notre Dame game on the grid-graph. 
Pre\ious to the Purdue game, 25 Purdue alunmi met with the Notre Dame Club at its regular Friday luncheon at Mandel's. 
Captain Paul Host of the 1932 eleven spoke at the November 3 luncheon at Mandel's. 
So you can see that this Chicago Club is a long ways from being out of the picture. 
cmcrNNATi In spite of a busy week-end at So. Calif., a number of Cincinnati alumni were seen about the campus —outstandingly th e convalescent Commodore Ed McHugh and the al­ways genial if somewhat perturbed Hogan Morrissey. The special train, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati, brought over a hun­dred fans to the contest. 
CLEVELAND "Although you have just about ex­hausted my supply of information as far as Cleveland is concerned, I can give you a little story about a couple of our men, Notre Dame Alumni, they were great in defeat. "As I mentioned to you in my last letter that Joseph Smith was run­ning for re-election as a municipal judge, and Ray Miller for re-election as the mayor of Cleveland. Every­one but Joe Smith thought that he would be re-elected as judge. There has been no greater advocate of jus­tice during his term in office and that probably was the reason why he was indorsed by most all papers and 
organizations as a good man for the office, but like Ray Miller who was a candidate for the office of mayor the odds seemed to break against him. Ray surely did great things in a helping way towards giving Notre Dame men work when no other em­ployment seemed obtainable. Any of you Notre Dame men who might drop into Cleveland sometime and would like to see either Ray Miller, Dan Duffy, Don Miller, or John But­ler just drop in on them at the Ter­minal Tower on the square and have one of those old Sorin Hall discus­sions. 
"Another news item is news of our Club having a Christmas dancing party. The arrangements are being handled by none other than one of the so-called old timers, namely, John Reidy. He has not as yet an­nounced his committees or the news that goes with such an affair. Great things are being planned for the local society folks. 
"'Dutch' O'Day of the Killamey O'Days is now hanging his hat in a very fine home on the west side with his wife and family. We of Cleve­land are glad to have him in our fold along with Vic Hart of the Harts of the class of '29 who has decided Cleveland is quite the town and will roost here at the Cleveland Club, the bachelor quarters of this city. Otis Winchester has finally convinced one of the officials of the Woolworth Company that they should help the N.R.A., so conse­quently, Mr. Otis has honored the club luncheons with his presence. Our genial treasurer, Jerry Reidy, has been forced to cancel a few of his heavy dates and miss some of that good old sleep because the Ohio Telephone Company decided they needed his services for a little over­time, work. I think the fact that he is missing some sleep has caused him considerable worry. Larry 'Hagen' Krai was very much in a lucky mood the other day because after investi­gating his sales talk, I found that he was decisively beating none other than Prank Svoboda, our coming journalist; incidentally, Frank is guiding the way of one of our local foreign newspapers. Krai is in the business of office supplies, etc. One of our most recent luncheons that was very well attended turned out to be a round table discussion with un­usual debating talent coming to life. As one looked around the table table there were present our President Matt Trudelle, Billy Ryan, Harry Miller, George Kerver, Fred "Fritz' Slackford, Charles Rohr, 'Chuck' 

Mooney, Frank Celebrezze, Stan Co-fall of the Standard Oil Cofalls, Jack Duffy, and 'Wee' Willy Van Rooy. 
"You can tell John 'Babyface' Mc-Manmon that if he wants to get in touch with John Viktoryn, Doctor John if you please, he may be able to do so by writing in care of the local club. Since John has hung out his shingle I have not received his new address. It has been understood that a few nuts are still available for the reason of the story I was told recently. It seems as though a four­some in the company of Chet Brum­leve and 'Doc' Joe Heiman, etc. went playing golf one Sunday morn­ing in a very cold rain as a matter of fact I understand the rain and air was so cold that when it touched the golf club it transformed to ice. I don't think they had any ice picks with them either. Further details can be gotten from 'Chef or 'Doc' if desired. 
How about hearing from some of thesei fellows, Jim. If you find any lost from our city send them home." 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA The following dope sheet for the District was received from HENRY WATTS EICHER: I had a short but pleasant visit 
•s\ith ART HALEY at the Navy game. I saw the game with Frank Kersjes, '31, E. H. Pierson, and Bill CleaiT, '31. 
Bernie Conroy, '30, one of my New York room-mates drove down to Baltimore with Eddie Fallon, '26, and Mr. and Mrs. "Doc". Gelson, '26. Lieut. Hughie and Mrs. McCafFery, '28, were on hand with Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Quinn, '27. Jimmy, as you know, is at the head of Quinn and Boden, book publishers. 
Frank Hayes, '14, of Chicago, came to the game with "Dutch" Bergman, '17. I also saw Father John MacNamara, '97, who attended the game with a group of visiting priests. Joe Byrne, '15, was on from Newark. Paul and Mrs. Mallon, '19, %vere over from Alexandria, and I talked with them after the game. Of course, Jimmy Hayes, '17, was on hand with a delegation of alumni, in­cluding Rudolph Rice, who is with the U. S. Tariff Commission. 
Jack Walker, '30, has accepted an appointment at the Emergency Dept. of Public Works. He tells me that Tom Keegan, '30, and Walter Stan­ton, '30, are also connected there. Bill Newbold is working for the 
N.R.A. A chap by the name of Mur­phy, whom I am told went to the 
• old school, is in the office of Emil Hurja, ^vith whom Eddie Dowling and I shared an office at the Bilt­more, at the Public Works Dept. 
Bud Markey, '29, who is working in the law offices of Everett Saun­ders, Chairman of the Republican National Committee, is in George­town Hospital following an opera­tion. Bud and Bernie Loshbough are sharing an apartment on M St., 
N. W. 
Prank Kerjes, '31, is living at the Chastleton Hotel, and is in his senior year at the Georgetown law School. Bill deary, '31, of Brainerd, Minn., who had the misfortune of losing both his mother and father since graduation, is attending Georgetown Law School and living at the Chas­tleton Hotel also. "Bo" Richards is operating a restaurant in George­town. 
I see Charlie Mannix, '29, from time to time. We're having lunch together today. Charlie is driving a new Dodge co.upe. I am keeping in touch with Father Vince Mooney, '16, at the N.C.W.C, and of course, I see my good friend Eddie Dowling when he is in town. Bill Cronin, '30, comes to Washington with Mr. Walker each week. 
Johnny Law is one of the busiest men in the football business around New York. Week before last he scouted New York University for Georgia, went down to make his re­port and stayed to scout the Violets again for Fordham, then came back by airplane to see the Sing Sing Prison team, which he coaches, play its Sunday game. Incidentally, Johnny is a member of the West­chester County Alcoholic Beverage Control Board at White Plains. John is married and has a fine son. 
If you hear from Jerry Hayes, tell him I have given }iim up as a hope­less correspondentr 
Watts. 

LOS ANGELES "Pinch hitting for our esteemed secretary, Ed Cunningham who very suddenly vacationed to Honolulu—r and thereby hangs a tale. He sat in on a bridge contest the other night during which his opponents all of a sudden bid and made seven hearts in spite of a double from him—some­what of a contretemps considering that he held two aces but seemed un­able to take tricks with either. To hide his confusion he quickly grew a beard but that w^as not enough— ugly rumor was afoot by the next day so. he immediately hopped a tug bound for the ukelele land where he is probably right now drowning his sorrow with cocoanut milk. "The cycling craze reached such a fevered pitch here that certain of our brethren were considering a moonlight ride hoping to get Jack Wadden into a pair of shorts, which would, no doubt, have been a sight well worth the exercise but every­thing had to be called off because Jim Kelly, class of 3.2, refused to ride in anything more hazardous than a motorcycle sidecar. 
"Wednesday noon lunches at the University Club are proving very popular with such well known per­sonages as Larry Moore, Al Schmitt, Joe Suttner, Gene Kennedy, and Larry Moore in attendance. 
"Another licensed practitioner of 

law in our midst in the person of 
Mervin Aggeler who crashed through 
the recent bar exams with ease. 
"Sid Sidenfaden is still building up Union Oil's already flourishing business. Fred Kcque is looking well fed and contented after a three weeks trip east. Larry Moore and Charley Kennedy are movie mag­nates. Joe Hiss is doing well in bonds. All of our coaching staff is doing well—^Mannie Vezie has given so many radio talks that he is well on his way to becoming an an­nouncer or a crooner or somethin'— reports say that Moon Mullins and Johnny O'Brien are also doing very well. Contradicting a statement seen in a late issue of the ALUMNUS it is herein set down as a matter of record that' Spike England is not dusting vegetables and sweeping ffies off of cheese in a grocery store in Kansas but is right here in our own fair city seeing that no mistakes are made by the Internal Revenue Department, a position which he fills with the dignity becoming so high an official. From the north we hear that Bernie Abrott is ably assisting the Public Defender—^thought we'd bet­ter tell you because their Secretary up there speaks and writes but little English. Emmett McCabe, (to re­turn to Los Angeles), is still mis­directing merchandise for the Los Angeles Soap Company, where he is so well liked that it is only a matter of months until he will be made president. 
"Sorry for typographical errors, omission of class dates with these names, etc., and etc., but I refuse to struggle through it again. 
Doug. Daley, '30." 

, LOGANSPORT An item in the paper last summer concerning a Notre Dame dance has brought to light the activities of a number of Notre Dame men in Lo­gansport, Ind. The Alumni Office is negotiating with the group for the formation of a Club which can con­tinue and expand these activities. 
PHILADELPHIA "First off, the Phaadelphia Club wants to go on record as being as much behind 'Hunk' Anderson and our team as any group of Notre Notre Dame men should be. They have the stuff and, some afternoon, they're going to blow some club so far the pieces will not be found. "Coming to the Quaker City—^that will welcome the return of "Hunk's' boys any time they come—^the first Fall meeting, October 18, 1933, was 
marked by the adoption of two im­portant motions, namely, first, by Gus Desch, that a Communion Break­fast be held twice yearly—on the Sundays nearest 'Rock's' anniversary and the Feast of All Souls', the lat­ter in honor, and for the repose of the souls, of all Notre Dame men deceased; second, that the meetings of the Club be held on the Second Tuesday of each month at the Penn 
A.C. (Does Brill—^who, incidentally, is quite proud of the results of the 'memory-improving' M.D., who's at­tending him — need that to remind him of a certain N.D. holiday on Franklin Field in 1930?) 
"We were happy to welcome back to the fold two former wearers of Our Lady's mantle — Gene Oberst, who gave Tom Conley 'Eock's' fun­damentals before sending him west, and Charlie McKinney, whom we had the pleasure of felicitating on his marriage, of the week prerious, to Miss Alice Nolen, of Philadelphia. 
"Harry Stuhldreher, not trusting the above mentioned treatment OUR MARTIN is receiving, put a few plays down on paper for LA SALLE'S S.AVIOUR, and, turning with always willing hand, accepted the chairmanship of a committee to cooperate with you and THE ASSO­CIATION'S aims. Chief Neeson made a not unheeded plea for the members to back you financially. 
"We report with regret at our loss the demise of Andrew Hanhauser, '98, on November 4. May his soul rest in peace and his Mass be well attended. 
"Clarke Reilly joined the Bene­dicts, this Pall, and, as yet nothing has been heard of him. Later word has it that Clarke is living at 3501 Calvert St., Baltimore, Md., and is with Electric Bond & Share Co. 
"Can't mention all the names, boys—^guess Marty will have to give me that specialist's address. 
Tom Slagee. 

PEORLA. "I've kind of fallen down on you as far as supplying news for the Alumni Club column of the ALUM­NUS. However you can rest as­sured that it was due to being verj', very busy. "Last Tuesday (Nov. 7) the Peoria-N.D. Club had a meeting and a nice turnout, the object being to make plans for the Notre Dame-Bradley game here, Dec. 22. We all plan to attend in a body and have arranged for a special reserved sec­tion for alumni. We have also ar­ranged to hold an informal Christ­. mas dance after the game at the 
K. of C. Club. "We drafted a wire to 'Hunk' and 
• the team, and I see by an Associated Press article in tonight's paper that it was received. 
"Jack Elder was down a month ago with a team of fighters from Chicago that took on our Own C.Y.O., and needless to say we gave them a nice trimming. We had a dinner that night for Jack, and I was able to get in a nice long talk with him. 
Joe Langton." 

UTICA Congratulations, Utica! It's too bad we haven't the soul­less corporation's front for the open­ing of a new unit. We'd like to crack a bottle of champagne over the Utica Club's hull, or have all our star alumni present at a gala first night, or some of those things that should meet with the following sim­ple but effective communication, in the Editor's mail bag! We have formed an Alumni Club here in Utica for those from this city and surrounding towns. At our first meeting we had ten fellows present so that the actual forming of the club has been completed. We elected officers and they are: Dr. A. C. Hitzleberger, Honorary President; Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, President; Vincent Fletcher, '32, Treasurer; Joseph FuUem, '31, Sec­retary. I have the list of names of former students and graduates that you sent to Dr. Kelley. I now wish to ask if you will kindly send me a list of for­mer men who might have lived in Rome, Ilion.Mohawk, Herkimer, and Oneida. The reason I am asking for that list is that they are surrounding to\vns to Utica and we want to have a large and active club so that we can be of some service to the Uni­versity and promote good fellowship among our former alumni. 
In the name of the Club, I wish to thank you in advance and hope that any suggestions or information that we might need for our success, you will be kind enough to send to us. 
Joseph Wm. FuUem, Sec'y. 

RHODE ISLAND "Dr. Edward Anderson, head coach of football at Holy Cross, was the guest of honor at a football car­nival, held by the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island at the Pavrtucket senior high school auditorium last night. Other prominent coaches at the meeting were Joe Sheeketski and Joe Locke also of Holy Cross and Joe McGee and Johnny Brady of Providence College. "The St. Agnes Fife, Drum and Bugle Corp opened the ceremonies followed by a demonstration football game put on by the members of the Providence College Freshman squad and the St. Raphael squad. The for­mer team took the offensive and 
Coach McGee explained the plays. 
William T. Halloran and James E. 
Sullivan, members of the Rhode Is­
land Association of Football Officials, 
outlined the rule violations and the 
penalties incurred. 
"Dr. Anderson when asked about 
this year's football squad at Notre 
Dame, replied that he was of the 
opinion that lack of experience was 
partly the cause of their poor show­
ing in recent games. He also stressed 
the need of good quarterbacking for 
the team. 
"An explanation of various points 
of football was put on by W. T. Hal­
loran and James E. Sullivan. The 
former told of his experience in 
handling Notre Dame games and 
praised the Notre Dame men. 
"Among the other men, prominent in Rhode Island sporting circles, at the carnival were John McManmon, one of the original 'seven mules' at Notre Dame; Edgar Wholey of St. Raphael's, John P. Cronin of La Salle, Tom Collins and Tiny Martin of Barrington high, James McGeogh of Warren high, Walter I. Pearce of Patwtucket high, Walter Scott Mc-Phee of East Providence high, Joe Fay of Central Falls, Bob Brennan of Mount St. Charles Academy, John 
E. Martin, Scholastic Officials Com­missioner, and Gerald Prior. 
X football autographed by the Notre Dame squad went to Robert Can- of Pawtucket. 
"The affair was in charge of John 
R. Jolly of Pawtucket as general chairman. He was assisted by John Brady, Leo R. McAloon, and John McClurg, football clinic; Eugene Mo­reau, relations; Charles A. Grimes, talking pictures; Vincent A. Doyle and John Reardon, tickets, and J. Clement Grimes, publicity. 
Leo McAloon was master of cere­monies." 
The above newspaper clipping tells the story. A letter from Charlie Grimes confirms the story. More than a thousand persons, "including mothers, fathers, sons, and daugh­ter," enjoyed the carnival. News­paper and radio publicity before and after was very much along the lines advocated for the Local Clubs. 
Pardon the old preacher if your attention is once more called to the obvious moral in this tale of Rhode Island's David-and-Goliath activities. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

Dr. Leo O'Donnell, '17, is greatly responsible for the wonderful show­ing of the Duquesne Dukes. The doctor is the team physician, and their fine play has been attributed to the splendid condition of the men. The boys have such great faith in Dr. O'Donnell's diagnosis that they would submit to any form of surgerj' if it would increase their stamina and vigor any slight degree. 
(Continued on Pape 101) 



=THE ALUMNI 
N.D. Joins Nation In Mourning Edward N. Hurley, LL.D. '18 
Laetare Medalist, Lay Trustee, Donor of Commerce Building, Donor, by Bequest, of Scholarship Fund, Was Eminent Friend of University and One of America's Great Catholics 
The nation Nov. 14 mouraed the death of Edward Nash Hurley, chair­man of the United States shipping hoard during the war and lay trus­tee of the University of Notre Dame since 1927, who died in Chicago at the age of 69 years. He donated $200,000 in Noveraher, 1930, for the construction of the Commerce huilding which was dedicated in his presence at Notre Dame, May 17, 1932, and constitutes his outstanding gift to the University. 
Physicians laid the cause of his death to leukemia, a disease marked by the existence of an over-supply of white corpuscles in the blood, complicated by the sudden develop­ment of pneumonia. His illness he-came critical only a few hours be­fore he was removed to a hospital where death came. Mr. Hurley was stricken a few days after returning from Miami, Fla., and Washington. 
In addition to fame he had won by speeding the transportation of soldiers and war materials to France with his merchant marine fleet, Mr. Hurley was known as president of the machine company bearing his name and served as co-receiver of the Middle West Utilities company after the crash of the Insult utility empire. 
During the last decade, his name was frequently mentioned for a number of important posts at Wash­ington. His war as well as peace work merited numerous decorations. The Catholic church of which he was a member, honored him in 1926 with the Laetare medal, annually pre­sented by the University of Notre Dame. 
The year 1913 saw Mr. Hurley's debut in the political life of this country. Long a prominent mid-western industrialist, he was ap­pointed trade commissioner to Latin America. Later he became chairman of the federal trade commission. 
Resigning that post in February, 1917, he was appointed by President Wilson in June of that year, chair­man of the United States shipping board to rush American troops into action in France. He was identified with this post throughout the war and resigned in 1919. 
The United States and foreign countries paid tribute to him for ex­cellent service by awarding military medals. Millions of American dough­boys and mountains of war supplies were moved across the Atlantic as 
HON. EDWARD NASH HURLEY 

Notre Dame's Advisor, Benefactor. 
Mr. Hurley built a special merchant marine fleet to meet the emergency. 
The gigantic task was assigned to Mr. Hurley, one of the "finds" of the Wilson administration, at a time when it appeared hopelessly impos­sible for the country's shipping in­dusti-y to cope with the heavy de­mands of the war crisis. He was swift to establish order out of confu­sion. Assembling the greatest mer­chant fleet America ever had, he commandeered all hulls and shipping materials in American shipyards. 
When the world war ended, he went to France to plan the return of .\merican troops and supplies. Upon his return he began to curtail the ship building program and to plan for a permanent American mer­chant marine. 
In 1919, he was back in Chicago, resuming direction of his own in­dustries. President Wilson, upon his resignation, wrote him that he had "served the country with distinction in these difiicult times. No one ever served his country's interests more devotedly than j'ou did, and per­sonally I am deeply grateful to you." Mr. Hurley resigned because, he said, "I feel that my work has been done." 
For his services in the world war. Air. Hurley received the Distin­guished Service medal from General John J. Pershing for "exceptionally meritorious and distinguished serv­ice in connection with the shipment of troops and supplies." He also was made a commander of the Legion of Honor of France and a grand officer of the crown of Italy. China con­ferred upon him the decoration of the order of Ta She Cha Ho. 
In a book, "The Bridge to France," published in 1927, Mr. Hurley told 
' the inside story of the United States shipping board and the Emergency Fleet corporation and declared that the ships provided in 1918 by the United States turned the tide of the world war toward the allies. 
The commerce building at Notre Dame commemorates the donor's early struggles in life and his first success which from then on made him successful in virtually every­thing he undertook. 
In 1897, when he was 33 years of age, he was unable to finance in this country the patents for the pneu­matic drills and hammers which he and two Kimman brothers were mak­ing in a bam behind the Kimman home in Chicago. 
"I," said young Hurley, "will see what I can do in London." Four days after his arrival in England after a journey to Europe, he sold his British patent rights for $125,­
000. 
From that episode, he said at the time he made the donation to Notre Dame, he derived the idea and ideals in harmony with which he believed the enlarged school at Notre Dame could profitably function. 
"I hope," he declared in making known his project, "that young men from this school will blaze the trail of modem and equitable business methods just as our forefathers blazed the trail for civilization and commerical progress by their ex­change of goods for furs." 
Bom at Galesbnrg, 111., July 31, 1864, Mr. Hurley was the son of Jeremiah and Ellen Nash Hurley. He received a common school education. 
September 30, 1891, he married Julia Keeley of Chicago. She died in 1900 and five years later Mr. Hur­ley married Florence Agnes Amberg. Two sons were bom to the first mar­riage and a son and daughter to the second. 
The University of Notre Dame 

conferred upon Mi'. Hurley the hon­
orary degree of LL.D. in 1918, and 
Knox college at Galesburg gave him 
a D.C.L. He was a member of sev­
eral Chicago, New York and Wash­
ington clubs. His home was on the 
fashionable Lake Shore drive in Chi­
cago, and he also maintained a fine 
place at Wheaton, HI., whei-e he 
raised pure bred stock. 
Mr. Hurley w^as a charter member 

of the board of Notre Dame's lay 
trustees, and his six-year term was 
to expire this year. He, however, 
had already been reelected. 
The University was represented at 

the funeral by Rev. John F. O'Hara, 
C.S.C, acting president; Francis 
Lloyd, controller, and Dean James E. 
McCarthy, of the college of com­
merce. George Shields, chairman of 
the S.A.C., James Moscow, president 
of the Senior Class, and William Mc-^ 
Cormick, senior in the College of 
Commerce, represented the students 
of Notre Dame. In a statement 
Father O'Hara said: 
"Mr. Hurley was one of the best friends Notre Dame ever had. In spite of the fact that he was weighed down by duties of state and private affairs, he gave unselfishly of his time in developing the interests of the University during the critical period of its expansion. 
"Mr. Hurley became identified with Notre Dame in 1918 as hono­rary dean of the college of com­merce. Although he was burdened at this time with governmental du­ties, he gave splendid help in shap­ing the destinies of this then recent­ly organized department of the Uni­versity. He rendered notable serv­ice in the endowment campaign of 1921-22, and made a personal con­tribution of ?25,000 at that time. In November, 1930, he announced a gift of ?200,000 to the Universitj' for a building to house the college of commerce, which was then named for him, the Edward N. Hurley col­lege of foreign and domestic com­merce. The University appreciates the fact that this w^as the first gift of a building it had received in the 88 years of its existence. In 192C, the University recognized Mr. Hur­ley's staunch Catholicity and distin­guished service to the state by con­ferring on him the Laetare medal, her highest reward for excellence. 
"The University feels a deep sense of personal loss in the demise of Mr, Hurley. He was a self-made man who kept his feet on the ground, and was always a true friend. His whole-hearted devotion to Notre Dame was an inspiration. His coun­sel was asked freely, and his advice was always straightforward, frank, and sincere. He will be remembered as a cornerstone of the greater Notre Dame." 
The cold and detail-less machinery of the mails has brought to the Alumni Office too late for further checking the word "Deceased" after the names of 
LT. COL. W. L. LUHN, '87, whose last address was Santa Fe, New Mex­ico. Col Luhn had been at various times in connection with his post in the U. S. Army, in Omaha, Ft Meade, Ft. Sam Houston, and Portland. 
LAWRENCE EMIL EOMBAUT, M.S., '22, whose last address was the Warner Chemical Co., Carteret, N. J. 
ROBER T JOHN MOYNIHAN, B.C.S., '26, whose last address was 702 Valley View Ave., Wheeling, 
W. Va. 
From Philadelphia, through the Club, comes word of the death on Nov. 4, of A, J. HANHAUSER, '97, after a lingering illness which for several years had kept him from the Notre Dame associations he had pre­viously enjoyed so much. 
WILLIAM F. ROBINSON, '06, died suddenly in his office in Gulf-port, Miss. His death was relieved by his long habit of Daily Communion, his reception of the Blessed Sacra­ment preceding by only an hour his sudden end. He was in the real estate business in Gulfport. In his Ques­tionnaire he has several things of in­terest: "Shook hands with William J. Bryan, Alfred E. Smith and chatted with President McKinley. I belonged to several debating societies at Notre Dame. I glee clubbed under Prof. Peterson and sang in church choir at the farmers mass until I broke up the choir by catching cold . . . Jack Shea, Thomas Lally, Thomas Ham­mer and myself received the honorary degrees of being the King B Rough­housers of Notre Dame. . . I was ex­pelled from Notre Dame three days after I matriculated for not knowing how to sling hash—then I got rein­stated for not knowing how to speak or understand the Irish language. The Irish Brother of the Senior Eefrec­tory then made me his assistant. . . I later assisted Brother Leopold at the refreshment store. . ." 
Younger alumni will be shocked to learn ofthe tragic death of CHAR­LEY McDERMOTT, '27, who was killed in an automobile accident near -Ambler, Pa., Nov. 26. Charley was in the investment banking business in -AUentown. He was 29 years of age, unmarried. Active in the alumni af­fairs of his district, he was Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Pennsylvania at the time of his death. 
In a managerial capacity, Charley won %vide popularity with the boys on the teams of his time. The Four Horsemen were present at his fun­eral in Allentown on Thanksgiving Day. Father John O'Hara, whom Charley had named in his Question­naire as his favorite priest, preached the funeral sermon. Charley's inter­ests on his Questionnaire—Commun­ity Chest, Boy Scouts, Knights of Col­umbus and Holy Name—are in them­selves a eulogy. 
The -\LUMNUS extends its sin­cere sympathy to Mr. C. J­SCHMIDT, '11, upon the death of his 

•ivife; to Mr. GEORGE W-4.CK. '23, upon the death of his mother; to Sis­ter Constance, C.S.A., '33, upon the death of her father; to Rev. JOHN JL^EGRAF, C.S.C, '15, upon the death of his mother; to Rev. FR-AN­CIS LUZNY, C.S.C, '14, upon the death of his father; to Rev. PAT­RICK HAGGERTY, C.S.C, '16, up­on the death of his uncle; to JA3IES DONNELLY, '33, upon the death of his father; to LOUIS BRUGGNER, '23, upon the death of his father; to Mr. PAUL FENLON, '19, upon the death of his mother; to CHARLES RILEY, '33, upon the death of his father; to ARTHUR SULLIV.AN, '27, upon the death of his mother. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Mary E. Murty, of Cleveland, Ohio, and Dr. FR.ANCIS A. HAL­LOEAN, '21, were married on Octo­ber 28, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Catherine R. Sullivan, -Akron, Ohio, and FRANCIS E. S'TEEL, '25, were married on ThanksgiWng Day, November 30, at the .Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Auman, Bay City, Michigan, announce the mar­riage of their daughter, Cecile Eliz­abeth, to JOSEPH H. JIULHALL, '29, on November 11, Bay City, Jlich. 
Mr. and Mrs. Andre J. Breaux an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Yvonne Elizabeth, to STEPHEN 
E. McPARTLIN, Jr., '29, which took place August 29th, in Chicago, 111. 
The marriage of Miss Marv Hub­bard and LOUIS C. CH-APLEAU, '30, took place on November 29, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Schreiber an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Elizabeth, to TIEllNEY -A.. O'EOUEKE, '31, on September 23, in Brooklyn, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. James C Walsh, Chicago, Illinois, announce the mar­riage of their daughter, Dorothy, to ALBERT G. MALONEY, '31, on Oc­tober 19, at Notre Dame, Indiana. 
We recently received word of the marriage of Miss Rosella Casella and JOHN J. McMURRAY, Jr., '31, which took place on June 17, at St. James Church, Chicago, Illinois. 
ROBERT C. STREB, '32, Canton, Ohio, was married November H , in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Lucier, of Adams, Mass., announce the en­gagement of their daughter, Irene Dora, to JOSEPH A. WILK, '31. 

BIRTHS 

Information without further de­tail from the Athletic Office reports the birth of daughters to Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH BYRNE, Jr., '15, and Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS P. KEN­NEY, '17. 
Until recently we had not received the announcement of the birth of a daughter, Jeannine Ann, to Mr. and Mrs. SEBASTIAN BERNER, '27, on May 16th, South Bend. 
Mr. and HENRY C. WURZER, '25, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Suzanne, on October 7, Daven­port, Iowa. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK DONOVAN, '28, South Bend, Indiana, announce the birth of a daughter, Marj' Paul­ine, on October 2. 
A clever NRA card — 'Nouncing Recent Ai'rival — was received from 3Ir. and Mrs. GEORGE DELANA, '14, to tell of the birth of a son. Bill, on November 3rd. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED SCHNURR, Jr., '28, announce the arrival of a son, Ronald Alfred, on November 21, Sanduskj-, Ohio. 
PERSONALS 

Before 1880 

An interesting letter has been re­ceived from MATTHEW TORBETT, '73, 6 Oxford Place, Atlanta: 
In reading over the ALUMXUS, November 1933 issue, just received, I note on page 64 the death of TOM DUNDON with much regret, as he was one of my student friends and fellow members of the "Boat Club." In the comments on his record as a student, etc., it reads. "He was a meber of the winning crew of the famous boat race between the Santa Maria and the Pinta in 1873, "de­scribed in a previous issue of the ALUMNUS." AS I also was in that race, pulling third oar, I would be most interested in having an oppor­tunity to read that account of the race. Won't you kindly inform me as to what issue of the ALUMNUS it was in? I usually read over the ALUJINUS very carefully, looking for the names of those who were fellow students with me in 1873. 
"DANIEL E. MALONEY (Har-





CRUISING 

The ship's smoke-room . . . serenity essentially male. Talk of yesterday's ports and tomorrow's . . . Havana . . . Naples . . . Port Said! Casualness that fails to hide the thrill of experiences sliared, of adventure yet to come .. . 
Cruising Cunard is an achievement in fine living .. . a world created solely to please you . . . full of ease and solid enjoyment. 
Sail warm seas to glorious foreign shores, tliis wnter . . . and give your­self a week or tvvo or four of such living as this! Choose from this elaborate program under renowned Cunard management! 
A Q IJ IT A > I.% . . . to E:<.vpt and the .>ledilerraneaii. Januar}- 31 and March 7 ...SS days in the newly remodeled Aquitania... to ten most alluring Mediterranean ports: Madeira, Gibraltar, Algiers, Villefranche for the Riviera, Haifa and Port Said for the Holy Land and £gypt, Rhodes, Istanbul, Athens, Naples! Rates only S495 up. First Class; S265 up. Tourist Class. In Cooperation with Raymond-Whitcomb. 

 CUNARD 

-UAi; R ETAN I A ... to the Wea< IndieM and Sonlh AMerlra. The White Cruise Queen on an itinerary that few ships could equal 5300 miles in 12 days .. . Port of Spain, Trinidad; La Guaira, Venezuela; Willemstad, Curacao; Colon, Panama; Havana, Cuba .. . including a 240-mile daylight vista of the Leeward and Windward Islands! From New York Nov. 25 .. . $125 up. First Class Service tliroughout. Later sailings Dec. 9 and 23, Jan. 27, Feb. 10 and 24, Mar. 10 and 24, Apr. 7 .. . rates on application. 
S^VM ARIA ... to 'Snamm, Havana aad Bermuda. 11 days .. . leisurely yachting over sunny seas in a ship famed for comfort... to the three highspots of the West Indies! From New York Jan. 20, Feb. 3 and 17, Mar. 3, 17 and 31. Low rates . . . $125 up. First Class Senice throughout. 
FRA^iCOXLA New Year's Cmlae to Nassau and Havana. 9 days... 3 days ashore, including New Year's Eve in Havana! From New York Dec. 26.. . S107.50 up. 
BEREXGARI.A Unealn'a Birtiiday Week-ead Cmlse t* Benaada. 3 days from New York Feb. 9.. . $55 up. First Class Service throughout 
No passports needed for West Indies. 

Literature and resenuiions through your local agent or Cunard Line, 23 Broadway, New York 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 19SS 
vard. 111.) was captain and stroke oar; JOSEPH B. CONNER (Hast­ings, Minn.) was coxswain, and I pulled the third oar of our boat. This I have a note of in my autograph book; also have in that book names of T. J. DUNDON (Marquette Mich.) 
E. G. GRAVES (San Antonio, Tex­as), and many others, but no record of their positions. WeU do I remem­ber that day, with the great number of visitors we had, and especially of the efforts of the ladies in pinning onto our sweat-saturated thin under­shiirts the medals received." 
1887 
Monticello, Ind. My dear Cartier:— 
The Class of 1887 is indebted to its Secretary for keeping alive an otherwise doubtful existence and thanks are due for your contribu­tions to the ALUMNUS. Your Octo­ber letter prompts me in i-ecalling that it is now fifty years since I en­tered Notre Dame and if "living in the past" has its pleasant memories it is equally enjoyable to renew one's youth on the scene of those days, albeit time has brought wonderful changes. 
Our Class was small in number it is true but, with the possible excep­tion of JOHN C. WAGONER, fate has been kind enough to let us all "carry on." I have frequently re­gretted the failure of a full attend­ance of our Class at some re-union but seemingly the proper urge was lacking. Largely in the hope of 

, meeting some of the old students and attracted by the array of celeb­rities on the program I attended the recent Commencement feeling some guilt for a frequent absentee. Fancy the pleasure I anticipated should I meet such old-timers as M. 0. BURNS PRED COMBE, 1LA.T WHITE, CHARLES and HENRY PASCHEN, GEORGE N. O'BRIEN, ED PORTER, EDWARD S. EWING, 
P. E. BURKE, C. J. STUBBS and PRANK HAGENBARTH. Luck was unkind and my hopes were shattered. Not a student or member of the fac­ulty of the early 80's could I locate. 
Knowing your Notre Dame activi­ties I felt more hopeful and made frequent inquiry for your presence and that of JOHNNY DEGROOTE, now Father DeGroote, only to be disappointed. It was comforting, however, to meet two veteran Indi­ana students in M. HENOCH and DR. BERTELING although they pre­ceded my time. Denied the pleasure ' of exchanging personal reminiscen­ces I am wondering how many recall the Symposium at the old Red Mill, the overland trips to the Community farm at Granger, to feast on fresh milk, and hikes to Bertrand. Were you with us as guests of the Mur­dock boys at the Michigan City 
prison? I dare say you recall our "evening sessions" with JOHN EW­ING, BECKER, NEILL, ROTHERT, KLEIBER, and LATSHAW as par­ticipants. The mortar board and "top hat," I believe, made their ini-* tial appearance at Notre Dame in '87 while football of the present day was unknown. Hand-ball was popu­lar in the old gym while baseball at­tracted an occasional game with the "Green Stockings" of South Bend on special "rec" days, when, I believe, FATHER BURNS, • acquired some reputation as a catcher. I am enclos­ing a newspaper story of BROTHER LEOPOLD and his famous "pie store" which you will enjoy as one of his thousand of customers. He is approaching close to a century. You might send it to Rothert who has been in poor health for some time and will appreciate a few lines from his friends. Another article I en­joyed was a recent eulogy on Profes­sor Hoj-nes in the ALUAINUS by JOHN D. WILLSON, a former study-hall neighbor from Iowa. 
If my visit found no familiar faces I enjoyed meeting several new ones in ST. GEORGE, JHTCHELL, HIL-GARTNER,JAinESON and O'CON­NOR whose welcome made me feel at home. I have eased off in active life here in Monticello and the mem­ories of Notre Dame contribute not a little to its pleasure. 
Wishing you and yours all the good things of life for many years I am. 
Sincerely yours, 
W. K. O'Connell. 
1897 
A letter from FATHER MacNA-MARA states that he is established on the estate at Bel Air, Md., amid surroundings that sound like one of the settings for a moving picture. You remember the P. 0. address. Box 
64. His disappointment in the out­come of the Navy game was, as al­ways, subordinated to his enthusiasm and confidence of better days ahead. 
1904 
An interesting letter from THOM­AS J. JONES, 828 N. Rural Ave., reveals correspondence he has had TOth THOMAS J. JONES, Jr., '29, Boise, Idaho. Indianapolis Tom also has a son, THOMAS JONES, C.S.C, '31, who will be ordained next year. Thomas J., Jr., of Boise has a son, Thomas J., Ill, so you can see why Alumni Office records sometimes go awry. 
1911 Mrs. C. J. Schmidt, wife of CHARLES J. SCHMIDT, 260 Mel-more St., Tiffin, O., died suddenly Nov. 5. She is survived by her hus­band, two sons and two daughters. Mr. Schmidt is deputy grand exalted 
ruler of the B. P. 0. E, and an active worker in the Notre Dame Club of Tiffin. The ALTJMNUS, with his class­mates, extends prayers and sympathy to him and the children in their sor­row. 
1913. 
HARRY KIRK encloses a clipping 
to the Alumni Office which brings 
the edifying news of the entrance of 
his daughter, Margaret Mary, into 
the Carmelite monastery in Balti­
more. She was an honor student and 
very active in dramatics both at Holy 
Rosary high school in Columbus and 
in St. Anthony's high school in Wash­
ington, D.C., where Harry opened 
consulting engineering offices two 
years ago. Margaret Mary was pres­
ident of the senior class at St. An­
thony's last year. 
1922 
Perhaps no man of our class has worked harder and has had more worries this fall than our own Hunk Anderson who without complaint is doing everything in his power to carry on the work of building a foot­ball machine to match those" of other days at Notre Dame. Maybe some of us have been disappointed because our football team has not lived up to our expectations, but let it be said right here that we of '22 have the greatest confidence in HUNK -A3r­DERSON as a coach, and our query to those who would remind us that the present season for Notre Dame has been a drab one, is: 'What of it?" We all know from experience that there are times when everything goes wrong despite our every effort to accomplish something worth while. The same applies to football. Keep plug^ng away at them. Hunk, giving the best you have and things will brighten up. As previously men­tioned in this column, we are with Hunk Anderson, win, lose, draw, or no contest. 
We regret to learn that HARRY MEHRE'S Georgia Bull Dogs had their undefeated record marred by a defeat administered to them by Au­burn. But while we must console Light-Horse Harry, at the same time it would not do to overlook con­gratulations to the victor — CHET WYNNE. We bet these men never dreamed while at Notre Dame that they would one day be coaching football teams and battling each other for the supremacy of the South. Both men have been most successful coaches and we rejoice at their success. 
Good Old BUCK SHAW coaching in conjunction with Morrie Smith at Santa Clara is highly elated over his team's showing in the annual game with Saint Mary's. The game ended in a 6-6 tie, which is almost a moral victory for Santa Clara. The 

December, 1933 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
colorful St. Mary's team is coached with the law firm of Walsh & Nagle by SLIP MADIGAN. in Helena. 
RED CROWLEY is one of the few-men of Boston who did not run for mayor in the last municipal election. Red is in the wholesale grocery busi­ness. He is self appointed custodian of the sacred cod. 
We have had no news from JOE and ALVIN RHOMBERG for a long time. We trust they ivill give them­selves up with out a further struggle. CHUCK FOLEY would ^vrite if we could get him peeved about some­thing, but he is too good natured. WALT KLAUER is the original Hit­ler 6f our class, so it is perhaps just as well we do not rouse him or his able playmate MUSSOLINI CAR­MODY. We desire peace at any price. 
Among the many things that have come in concerning the football seas­on, one which must prove gratifying to "HUNK" is the following verse ^mtten by LEONARD LEVITT, Cairo, 111., a classmate: 
Notre Dame, old Notre Dame Tho you've lost many a game. There's no stain against your name, Notre Dame, old Notre Dame. 
Remember Gipp of old renown; 
How to his memory "Knute's" men 
respond, 

Remember Rockne's last request 
To make "Our Lady's" team the best. 
Listen to the cheering grand; 
Hark the playing of the band. 
Win this game, resume your stand, 
Notre Dame, old Notre Dame. 
1925 

GEORGE CHAO sent a card re­cently from Louvain, where he has been studying at the University, re­ceiving his Ph.D. last June, announc­ing his return to China after many years absence, including study at Notre Dame, Fribourg and Louvain. George's address in China is, c/o N. 
C. Chao, The Shun Pao, 24 Hankow Road, Shanghai, China. 
1927 

A letter from ART SULLIVAN, in addition to bringing the sad news of the death of his mother in Mora­via, N. Y., Nov. 10, also brings the brighter news of the success of JOE BOLAND as radio announcer for WCCO, Minneapolis. The Editor heard Joe between the halves of the Minnesota-Michigan game and be­lieves all that is being said about the Boland broadcasting. 
1928 

BILL JONES was a most welcome visitor on the campus on his way back to Helena, after having visited in Detroit. Bill's laugh is just as heartv as ever. He is still associated 
LARRY CULLINEY writes from 635 West 115th Street, New York City, that he will be back for the Southern California game. 
PAUL E. WENDLAND promises to take time out from his work as Ladies Ready-to-Wear buyer and manager in H. G. Wendland & Co. store in Bay City, Michigan, to at­tend the Southern California game. He's anxious jto see the Band's new uniforms. 
PAUL LUKEN wrote from 6537 
S. Sangamon St., Chicago, that he was planning a trip through the South. Paul, we shall expect much news concerning the Southern gang when you return. You might get after KIRWIN WILLL4.MS for not sending in his notes for the column this month. 
FRANK HEGARTY is now prac­ticing medicine in Pittsburgh at 3710 Fifth Avenue in the Medical Arts Building. 
JOSEPH P. KISSLING is practic­ing law at 39-0- Main St., Flushing, 
N. Y. 
DRS. MARCUS FARRELL and DICK WEHS are internes in Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh. DR. ROBERT MacDONALD is pathology resident at Cleveland City Hospital. DR. FRANK GUARNIERI is at the King­ston Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
PAUL BRUST is associated as an architect with WILLIAJI J. RED­DEN, '14, 3525 North Avenue, Mil­w^aukee. Wis. 
GEORGE SARGUS is in New-York with Macy's. His address is 392 Bleecker St. 
AL TAYLOR wrote from 1282 
Union Street, Brooklyn, N. Y., ask­
ing for WALT PARENT'S address. 
Had a note from PETE GALLA­GHER from 143 Fern St., Freeland, Pa., where he is teaching in the Free­land High School, inquiring about the possibilitj' of replacing his class pin w-hich he claims he lost—but he didn't say how. You did well to keep • it this long, Pete. Remember how JOE BRANNON lost his the first time he went up to the Palais Royale after getting his pin. 
VINCE WALSH was here from Monticello, Illinois, for the Purdue game, as were JIM ALLEN and ED McKeo^vn from Chicago. It seemed good to talk over Corby Hall days again with Vince and Jim. 
It's up to the class to get after KIRWIN WILLIA3IS for not writ­ing the column this month. Perhaps he hasn't any news—so get busy and drop him a line at 319 West Gram­ercy, San Antonio, Texas, because I'M expecting him to come through next month. 
ristmds 

Memo for Alumni 

-^^^ 
I shall subscribe to the AVE MARIA for one year because 
(1)
 I can practice Cath­olic Action by bringing this fine Catholic influence-into my home 52 times a year. 

(2)
 I can still be in­fluenced by Priests who taught me while at Notre Dame. 

(3)
 I can aid in spread­ing devotion to our Blessed Mother. 

(4)
 I can help in the preparation of young men to the Priesthood and Brotherhood. 

(5)
 I can share in hun­dreds of Masses and in the prayers of the Holy Cross Community, 

(6)
 I can cultivate in my home a taste for good reading. 


• (7) I can keep informed of current events from a Catholic standpoint. 
The AVE MARIA is the old­est weekly Catholic family magazine in America. For 68 years it has been edited and published by the Priests, Broth­ers anu Nuns connected with the University of Notre Dame. It commends itself to all Cath­olics, particularly to Alumni. 
You can enroll in this fast growing AVE MARIA family in a very simple way. Simply enclose check, currency, or money order for ?3.00 in an envelope addressed to us and the AVE MAEIA will arrive at your home the following week and for 51 weeks more. Address 
Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, Editor, 
The Presbytery, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1933 
1929 In the period of economic historj' immediately terminated, gentlemen, the theory hased upon the fallacy that "two can live as cheaply as one" has had a renaissance. Witness the decline through matrimony of such political luminaries as president BIL L KREI G who followed Virginia Ballweg's teaching on the subject, and unperturbable politician WAL­TER ELI STANTON who made sure of one additional vote at any odds up LaPorte way. Incidentally, Wal­ter received as one of his wedding presents, a brand new shiny office down at Washington, D. C, so that we have the honor of announcing his new address as being: 1633 Q Street, N. W. Stanton is of the "brains" department in the legal di­vision of the Federal Emergency Ad­ministration of Public Works. Drop in and see him if you could use some Federal funds. 
Apropo s the announcements above: TOM LANTRY and scientist BOB SCHULZE conducted a sanity inquest of the entire class the other evening. With practically all pre­cincts in, the result seems to be that sanity and celibacy have a slight margin so far. TOM LANTRY, if you must know, is an unreformed in­surance man of New York City. Bounding BOB SCHULZE has turned his back on the world' of fi­nance to join FAUNCE MEYER (who is already vice-president of the Indiana Botanical Gardens) in pre­senting the world a new organization styled The Central States Labora­tories. 
CY NOLAN has taken over most of the legal business of the citizens of Davenport, Iowa, while MAR­SHALL KIZER is doing the same for the folks down at Plymouth, In­diana. But as far as I know. Law Club President JERRY ROACH has the best idea. He is practicing law, as are many others, and runs a bank as a side line just so he can have the satisfaction of laughing in the face of the Big Bad Wolf. If the Sec. can borrow enough money to get up to Grand Rapids he intends to bor­row enough courage to bon-ow a lot of money from Jerry. BOB VOGEL­WEDE was in Chicago the last time any of the class sleuths were able to catch up with him. It is understood that he was due to stop off at De­catur and give the home folks a treat for a week or so before head­ing for his winter playground in Florida. 
The South Chicago police report that CLYDE ATCHINSON and CHARLIE McDERMOTT are still fooling the pay-master at the Illinois Steel Corporation of the South Chi­cago plant. 
The World's Fair was well staffed \rith Twentj'-niners. BILL DWYER upheld the best traditions of the class in being one of the assistants to the Treasurer of the affair while TOM MEDLIN helped in making it bigger and better by thinking up some of the architectural effects which were merely night-mares for ordinary folks like you and me. It seems that Medlin must have done a mighty swell job though, because there were several large firms who had waivers on him when the thing closed up for the season. 

RED LEACH and the Commercial Investment Trust must be getting along very cozily together because Red was recently promoted and moved to Pittsburgh. He is married and has one child. ' While we're talk­ing about the financial world, we might mention that JOE TOOMEY who was working for General Motors Acceptance Corporation suffere d from a break-down late in the sum­mer and is now back home with his folks out in Iowa City. 
FRAN CROWE took life easy around Lafayette all summer prepar­ing to tell the boys of his Sigoumey football team to do or die for dear old but pshaw, I can't get that name off again. LARRY O'CONNOR is liable to make it Sears-Roebuck and O'Connor most any time now. His address is Ben­ton Harbor, Michigan, which shows that some people have little or no ambition, Charlie!!! 
TOM JORDEN left his paints and varnishes unprotected for a week­end and came out to see the Notre Dame - Pittsburgh Game. Tom is showing a picture of a bouncing baby girl. All that Tom would say is: "What's happened to JOHN MALLOY?" Shulze said everything else. 
Due to the good services of HOW­ARD V. PHALIN who is ^vith R. S. Toth and Associates of 1825 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, JOE BREIG and ARNOLD WILLIAMS have been du­ly introduced to the world as suc­cessful short-story writers. 
Let this ser\'e BOB SCHULZE as just a gentle reminder that he prom­ised to write "within ten days." 
Had you been able to convince a particularly observant gum-chewing blonde secretarj' that (1) you'd never attended Notre Dame, (2) were not an insui-ance salesman, (3) had no stocks, bonds or old iron to sell, (4) didn't need a job, (5) had a bank account that assured that you didn't want to request a loan, (6) had an appointment, and (7) had never known Doan "out at school" the chances are about 50-50 that you might have been ushered into the inner offices of the Junior Sales De­partment of the Crowell Publishing Company on November 22nd, there to hear FRANKLYN EUGENE DOAN classify the class in the fol­lowing manner: 
The fifth annual casino champion­ship was decided at Fort Wayne after the Purdue game with JOHN­NY DORGAN first, LOU NIEZER second and FRANK DO.\N third. Dorgan's name goes on the cup for the third straight year. Dorgan and DAN BUCKLEY now have their own law and disorder office; Niezer haunts board meetings; Doan spreads Crowell's gospel. DENNY KEARNS, a Fort Wayne apothecary, says JIM ROY is still glibbing into Boston microphones. Boston and its nine-way mayoral election brought to mind CHARLEY COLTON. Charley always did make too many promises. 
DORGAN says that P.A.UL HEM­MY, the Wisconsin magistrate, will throw you into the jug for practical­ly nothing at all. GEORGE BRAU­TIGAN and RAY DRYMALSKI are Chicago lawyers; VIC ESSROGER can quote bond prices on 19 tele­phones simultaneously. None of the above mentioned went to the Cen­tury of Progress. 

Akron is the fiwt city in America to report six months ahead of time a solid delegation to the New Deal Re­union. ART ERRA (No hits, no runs, one Erra) will probably start in a Dodge and get there in a strat­osphere balloon. JOE KRAKER and HAROLD BAIR, one a banker, the other a commercialist and both fa­thers, never miss a beer fiesta. STEVE and JOE (Incipient Bene­dict) WOZNIAK will discuss Ohio law,—for a consideration. VIRGIL 
P. CLINE, it's said, is at Harvard. Dayton BILL CRONIN has been in Akron a couple of times. General Johnson can't hope to line up the Ohio laundries under the Blue Buz­zard unless they get together on CRONIN'S dress shirts. PAUL HAL­LAHAN was looking over the Army-Illinois game a few weeks ago. JOHN V. HINKEL recently made a triumphal tour of the west. Next week "East LjTin." 
PAUL BERTSCH and CLAUDE HORNING are unman-ied, uncom­mitted and unscored upon. They're trying to reopen Akron's big bank. You'll recall the case of a guy named Humpty-Dumpty. 
LOU NIEZER thinks LitvinofF was really FRANK McANENEY wearing Balbo's sheared beard. Imagine my surprise when Bill Bullitt, not AR­NOLD L. "Cy" WILLIAMS, got that Moscow portfolio. 
It FRED IHLLER is trying to dope out the sudden ' surge in the beer business, maybe he'd bettir find out if HANK BURNS visited N'Yawk recently and called HENRY OELBRICHT and DON O'BRIEN. They, with BILL DOYLE of the Guaranty Trust and DOC HARRI­SON, the Connecticut good-will en­voy, ought to form the vanguard of the east next June. 
DR. JIM TOBIN, with one ap­pendectomy behind him, and FRED WAGNER, the former Glee Clubber, were on hand last June. They ought to be cinches this coming June. 
Heard from Barrister BOB MAN­IX a few months ago. He's a Green­ville (Ohio) lawyer and probably head coach of the Greenville High School cheer-leading staff. 
CHARLES HASKELL has moved his law offices to Suite 720, Majestic Bldg., 16th St., at Broadway, Denver, Colo. 
JACK KEAENS is working for the Illinois Highway Dept., the only N.D. man in the Elgin Office district. 
1930 

From the ever-faithful BERNIE CONROY, contender for the consist­ency medal among the Class Secre­taries : 
TIERNEY O'ROURKE and Miss Elizabeth Schreiber were married in Brooklyn on Sept. 23. Tim is em­ployed by the Equitable Assurance Co. JIM DODSON has been working for the Pittsburgh Press. FELIX ISHERWOOD was last reported as being the Portland manager of the Hamburg-American Line, one of the States Steamship groups. I hear that FRED CUNNINGHAM is also in that business. 
"ED McCRIMMON has drifted to far-off Honolulu to obtain a job. RON SULLIVAN is still plugging away at the insurance business. JACK NAP­TYER, '31, is in Ron's office in Port­land. JOHN O'DONNELL is work­ing on the Emergency Relief staff in Wilkes-Barre. I met GIL PREN­DERGAST at the Navy game. Gil finished law school at Western Mary­land and is now employed by the Hartford Casualty and Indenmity Co. in Baltimore. 
"JIM MALLOY and DAN BAR­TON are sharing an apartment in Baltimore. SAM RICHARDS, ED MURRAY, WATTS EICHER, FR. VINCENT MOONEY, HUGH Mc-CAFFEEY and JIM QUINN were some of the loyal rooters I saw at the Navy game. 
"CON CAREL lost a close election in his first political race for the N.Y. Assembly." 
A fine letter was recently received from HARRY SYLVESTER, who is back in Brooklyn, 1118 East 14th St., after a summer of writing. Harry's latest book, "Big Football Man," is well worth the reading. 
1931 Word from Seattle, Wash., is that PHILIP H. DUFFY has entered the seminary. BILL MCCARTHY, 18 Linwood Terrace, Kansas City, Mo., writes that he has finally landed a job with the List Construction Co. FRANK lUEN, he adds, was up to see him the other day about an insurance policy and was kidding Bill because he was working on a statement of a contract, luen took accounting and Bill engineering. The following comes from RAMON SMITH who was a surprise party at the So. Cal. game: "I forgot to ask you the other day in your office what address you had for Telfel (the old smoothy). Is it St. Norbert's College? (Ed Note: Yowsah! West de Pere, Wis.) "You won't have to answer this let­ter—^just manage to put it in an ALUJINUS sometime and then send me the ALUMNUS! (Who's an old smoothie?) "Enjoyed the game — believe it or not^though I think LARRY MUL­LINS' outfit from St. Benedict's could show that backfield plenty about co­ordination. By the way—Larry tells me he is "going places" next year. He was in South Bend but I didn't get to see him, I heard from him just the week before the game. Did you know he has a "boncing bebby boy?" An4 do you think I could ask CARIDEG for a couple of tickets to the game out • here at Lawrence between M. U. and. 
K. U.?—and e.xpect to get them? And. did you know that SPIKE McAD-­AMS refereed a bout between a man­ager and some other kid on the ]field; after the game? And then ' they wouldn't fight? Was I disappointed! 
"JIM BRAY, BOB and FRANK TYLER and myself had one hell of a time going through that snow from Chicago to Joliet early Sunday morn­ing. Took us about three hours, but after that it was clear sledding into 
K. C. Arrived about five-thirty — just in time to fall into a tub and out for bed. Were we dead! 
"Business is good thanks and I ex­pect to be able to get a new suit any day now—when I pay off the bets I lost on the game (and there were plenty of them too) but then, I ex­pect to get even next year." 
1932 JERRY CONWAY is back in White Bear Lake, Minn. He is asso­ciated ^vith the David Adv. Agency of St. Paul, securing clients and then planning their campaigns, which is job enough. Jerry says,—^"Have little news to offer from these parts. SCHROEDEE is still thrusting gaso­line down the throats of Mpls. citi­zens. DU-AJSTE YELLAND, I under­stand, is still insuring them. MAUR­ICE GRIFFIN is with Sears, Roe­
buck. DEA is doing the same thing part time. About all from these parts except that JOHN ELDRED6E is a loving husband to Katherine 
Hoffman since July 5.  
1933  
JOE  CLARK,  350  Church  St.,  
Poughkeepsie,  N.  Y.  is  with  the  

Aetna Life Ins. Co. GEORGE ALLINGHAM is \vith the New York American. 
A card which, as 0.0. Mclntyre re-recently phrased it, "touched off a drool" in the Publications Office, was one from ART BECVAE, who wrote from Prague that "Many an evening I have drunk a beer to your health." 
TOM DOWNS writes that he is continuing in the Marquette Law School. His address is 1622 W. Kil­boum Ave., Milwaukee. 
LES RADDATZ is in the inspiring environment of Chapel Hill, working for his M. -A. at the U. of North Carolina, FEED McBETH, his form­er roommate, is with the Canadian Bell Tel. Co., in Hamilton. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
-(Continued from PaRe 94) 

James L. O'Toole, Esq. has been nominated on the Democratic slate for Judge of County Court of Alle­gheny County. James L. O'Toole 
.an,d the Democratic party are insep­;arable.' .Ip ;thei.election last fall 
•
 James'-Ll'WEis'.the chairman of the . speaker'."!, committee and the propa­

•
gahda'-h^ pat '^ut enabled the Demo­crats to carry this county by 30,000 

•
 votes, something .unheard of in this Republican 'sttcnglicld.. We are all piiKing toi Slid- jn 'ih-i forthcoming election and our wishes are that he make it. -All Notre Dame men are requested to put the aXe on James Lawrence O'Toole. 


Lost: Leo Vogel, age 37; height 5 feet 11 inches; weight 165 pounds; further description: baldness. Will anyone knowing the whereabouts of the above person kindly notify the Notre Dame Club of Western Penn­sylvania. 
A proposed football game between the recent graduates and the older alumni is in the making. Several games of mushball between these two groups were played during the summer, the outcome ending in a tie series. Now the boys are anxious to settle the dispute in a game of football. The probable line-up for old alumni. 
L.e., L. Schneider; l.t., J. Bach; l.g., C. O'Toole; c, J. Reardon; r.g., 
J. Meinert, Capt., r.t., E. D. Nebel; r.e., F. Wilson; q.. Red Mooney; l.h., 
J. Sheedy; r.h., Ed Byrnes; f.b., E. Layden. Coach: Dr. Leo O'Donnell. Substitutes: Kaiser, Steitz, Barr, Devlin, Walsh, Sullivan. 
Joseph Bach. 



LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Jo­seph H. Kraker. 29. 1776-24th St. Cuy­ahoea Falls, Ohio. President; Claude H. Hominsr. '29. 133 N. Righland Ave.. Akron, Ohio. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP ARIZONA— James D. Bany. '9. 82 W. Pennington St.. Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. '23. 620 N. Sixth St, Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X Strassner. '14, Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL-Rt Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C.. '02. Dac­ca. President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C., Dacca, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON— Joseph C. Sullivan. President; Robert J. Heam. 43 Chester Road, Belmont Mass., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP BUFFALO— Paul D. HoefBer. '25, 280 Woodward Ave, Buffalo, President; Edmund J. Luti. Jr.. '24. 91 Beard Ave.. Buftalo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CAHJMEH' DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '23. 55521 Vine Ave., Harvey, HI., President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP THE CAPI­TAL DISTRICT—^Thomas DoUard. '21. 200 9th St, Troy. New York. President; John Vincent Smith, '29. 252 First St. Albany. New York. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.WIE CLUB OF CHICAGO— Austin McNichoIs. '17. co. W. A, Alex­ander & Co.. 134 S. LaSallc St. Presi­dent; William P. Kearney. '28. 507 County Bld;r., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME'cillIB'0?"-ClScjl<HK'ri —Robert HuKhds. '2'J, Sofa Burch Ave.. President; W. D. ^lOrrtsseS-."ZB. Cttd-' olic Charities Bureau,, Secretary., , , , , 
NOTRE DAME CLUlrf OV gn^VBLAlSli. •' —Matthew Trudelle, '17. 1023 ScoSeld Bide.. P,rf5!dEntt J., Pa f vck Cinny,-'fiS.', • CO. Erie Ravlrbad 'Iieg?il 35ept,, Mcdiral* Arts Bldi; Sc'ccetaiy. • -• . • • 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY — William J. Granfield. '13, State Bldgr., 1200 Main Street. Springfield. Mass.. President; James A. Curry. '14. 647 Main St.. Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLDB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift '24, 422 In­terurban Bid?.. Dallas. President Fran­cis A. McCullough. '30. 917 First Nat­ional Bank Bldg., Dallas. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer. 'OS. 512 Mutual Home Bldl?.. Dayton. President; Andrew A. Aman. Jr.. '30. 210 Lexington Ave.. Dayton, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey, '28. 1513 Grant St , pres­ident; O. L. Hough, '27. 1575 Race St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22, Des Moines Catholic College. President; Charles H. Lynch. 
•28, 1429-13th St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John T. Higgins, '24. 1632 Buhl Bldg., President; Paul J. Dooley. '25, 6202 Hamilton Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME. CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. EU '12, 1511 R. L Ave., N. W., Washington. President; James D. Hayes. 5115 Kghth St, N. W.. Washington. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17, Erie Da3u Times, President; "Thomas Barber. '24. 416 Newman St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAMD CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY —James Murphy. '22, 611 Securities BIdlg.. Bridgeport Conn.. President; Joseph E. Russo. '32. 166 Hough Ave., Brdigeport Conn.. Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FT. WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President; Robert Eggeman. '30, Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —^Harold L. Londo. *24. City Engineers' Office, City Hall. Green Bay. Wis.. Pres­ident ; Levi A. Geniesse. '24. 510 Mina­han Bldg.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH—George E. Ludwig, '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W. President; Ray­mond J. Bonini, '27. 2460 Oakwood Dr.. S.E.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St. President: Marc A. Fiehrcr, '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—^Norman Bartholomew. '15, 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President; Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave, Marinette. Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. Texas. President; T. F. Green, Jr.. '27. Conroe. Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIAN­APOLIS — Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Meridian, President; John T. Rocap, 
•30. 129 E. Market St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET— Charles Lennon. '30. 605 Herkimer St. President; Thomas Feeley, '32, 316 Bucll Avf.. Secretary. 
i'TSJkE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY ' ^Daniel F. Foley, '23. 25 Wint Ave., F t Leavenworth. Kansas. President; John 
M. Dugan. '27, 4427 Tracy St, Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert '30. U. of Kansas. Wich­ita. President; Dan Welchons, '30. 306 
E. 13th St. Hutchinson. Kansas, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Wm. A. Reisert. Jr., •30. Reiscrt Ins. Agency. 352 Starks Bldg., Louisville, Ky.. President; Herman J. Ohligschlag­cr, ^29. Broadway at 30th St. Nafl. Concrete Construction Co., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUN­TY—William B. Chawgo. '31, North­western Mutual lafe Insurance Co., 303 Graham Bldg.. Aurora. Bl.. Secretary pro tem. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE. INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indiana Ave.. Laporte. President; Nor­man Duke. '33. 304 Niles St, Laporte. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—Judge A. A. Scott '22. 2203­8th Ave., President; Edward P. Cun­ningham, '30, 1031 S. Grand Ave., Sec­retao*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke, '88. 307 Camp St, New Orleans, President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24, CO. Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manilla. President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hogh Masevncy, Jr.. 1878 Union Ave., President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —P. Dudley Pearson, '19. 2037 N. Lake Drive. President; Victor G. Woeste. '29, 1819 E. Kenwood Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAHE CLUB OF MONTANA— Earl W. Brown. '93, 320 Power St, Helena, President; James B. O^Flynn,'11, Great Falls, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE— Robert P. Williams. Jr., '29. 105 Galla­tin Road, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Geralad J. Barret. '22, 313 S. 37th St. Omaha. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JER­SEY—Robert Phelan. '22. 481 WUliam St., East Orange, N. J., President; Joseph Nulty, '27. 945 Madison Ave.. Elisabeth. N. J.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF' CITY OF NEW YORK—Wniiam A. Walsh. '96, 16-18 S. Broadway. Yonkers, New York. President; J. Norbert Gelson. Jr.. '26. 1201 Troy Ave, Brooklyn. N. Y.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CAUFORNIA — Royal H. Bosshard. '17, 315 Montgomery St. San Francisco. President; Robert B. Hill. '23, 5033 Proctor Ave,, Oakland. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—. Nat McDousall. '00, 532 Sherlock Bldg., Portland, President; Thomas D. McMa­hon, '27, Yeon Bldg.. Portland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO — Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15. Hoster Realty Bldg.. Columbus. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA —Thomas F. Shea. o. s.. '09. 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank. Tulsa. President; Leo A. Schumacher, '13. King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office. N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA — Harry Francis. Jr.. '30. 15 Spring Ave.. Ardmore. Pa.. President; Thomas J. Magee. '32, 5801 Chew St, Philadelphia, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —Albert F. Gury, '28. 704 W. Wilcox Ave.. President; Joseph Langton. '28. 207 Hillyer Place. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thomas Ashe. 31. 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester. President; Raymond D. Downs '26, 46 Clinton Ave., S., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY —Raymond C. Marelli. '27, 1418 Eighth St. Rockford. HI.. Presi­dent; Francis W. Howland. '25, 902 N. Main St, Rockford, 111., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF RHODE ISLAND—Charles A. Grimes, '20, Para­mount Bldg.. Providence. President: Cy­ril A. Costcllo, '29. 44 Huxley Ave., Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul M. Butler. '27, 802 LO.O.F. Bldgl. South Bend. Indiana. President; Norman J. Hartzer. '29. 843 Forest Ave., South Bend. Indiana. Sec­retary. 
Local Alumni Clubs  LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES  
(Continued)  
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo SutliSe. '24. 2701 Sfl. Grand, Presi­dent; Robert HellrunK. '30. 7214 North- Year NameBefore 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher  Address  Fitchburg, Mass.  

moor Drive, University City. Mo., Secy. 1880—85 Prof. Robert M. AndersonCirdeville, Ohio 1886 Michael O. Bums 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrington. '25, Continental 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier Ludington, Michigan Mortgage Co., President. 1883 John L. Heineman Connersville. Indiana 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE 1889 P. E. Burke 301 Camp St, New Orleans. La. AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Vincent 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Brown. '23, 1418 James St., Syracuse, 1894 Hugh A, O'DonnclI The New York Times, New York City President: Vincent Goulct, '26. 125 

Green St., Syracuse, Secretary. 1895 Eustace Cullinan, Sr. 860 Fhelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 1896 William P. Bums 327 WiUard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN AN­

TONIO—Harold Tynan. '27. 240 E. Hui-1897 Rev. John A. MacNamara P. O. Box 64. Bel Air, Maryland sacke Ave., President; Kirwin J. Wil­1898 Wm. C. Kcgler 9th and Sycamore Sts., .Cincinnati, Ohio 
liams, '28, 319 W. Gramercy, Secretary. 

1899 Dr. Jo.scph F. Duanc 418 Jefferson Bldg., Peoria, Illinois 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO 1900 John W. Eggeman Old First Bank Bldg.. Fort Wayne, Ind. —C. J. Schmidt. '11, 260 Melmore St.. 
1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1300, 139 N. Dark St,. Chicago, 111. 
President: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretao". 

1902 C. C. Mitchell 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicago, 111. 1903 Francis P. Burke 904 Trust Company Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— Fred A. Sprcnger. '30. 3129 Kimball 

1904 Robert Proctor Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana Ave., President: Joseph L. Wetli. '31, 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Illinois 717 Starr Ave.. Secretarj-. 
1906 Thomas A. Lally 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Washington NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— 1908 Frank X. Cull Buckley Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio Richard B. Swift, '20, Kahl Bldg.. Dav­
1909 E. P. Cleary P. O. Box 356. Momence, Illinois 
enport, Iowa, President: Heno* M. Mc­Cullough Bids,, Davenport, Iowa, Sec­

1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1900 Eudid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio retary. 1911 Fred L. Steers 1635 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago. Illinois 1912 B. J. Kaiser 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES—Joseph Ciyey. '32. 20 Roose­

1913 James R. Devitt 921 Engineers Bldg., Clevdand, Ohio velt Ave.. Endicott. N. Y., President: 1914 Frank H. Hayes 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicago, Illinois Joseph Hennessy, '30, 22 Fourth St.. James E. Sanford 
1915 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park, HI. 
Johnson City. N. Y., Secretarj-. 

1916 Timothy P. Galvin 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— 1917 Edward J. McOskcr 104 S. Union St.. Elgin, nlinois 1918 lllO-Sth Ave., S., Escanaba, Michigan 
John J. Doyle. '28. 414 2nd Ave.. S.. John A. Lcmmer Minneapolis, Minn., President: Robert Fogcrty, '28, College of St. Thomas. St. 
1919 Clarence Bader 650 Pierce St.. Gary. Indiana Paul. Minn.. Secretary. 1920 Leo B. Ward 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angeles; California 1921 Alden J. Cusick 1 Park Ave.. New York City 
NOTRE DA»IE CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­1922 Gerald Ashe 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester. New York 

mond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har-1923 Paul Castner White Motor Company, Cleveland. Ohio becke, '19, 61 F. St.. Salt Lake City. Sec. 1924 James F. Hayes Fifth Avenue Ass'n., Empire State Bldg., N. Y. City 
1925 John W. Scallan Pullman Co., 79 E. Adams St, Chicago, HI. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH 

VALLEY—Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 96 N. Walnut St, East Orange, N. J. versity, Lafayette, Ind.. President: Peter 1927 Edmund DeClerq 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, Hlinois Vogt, Secretarj'-Treasurer. Louis Buckley 
1928 718 E. Corby St., South Bend. Indiana NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN 1929 231 Wisconsin St. Indianapolis. Indiana 
Joseph McNamara PENNSYLVANIA — Leo R. Mclntyre. 1930 Bernard W. Conroy 72 Barrow St. New York City 
'28. Bethlehem, Pa.. President. John E. Boland 
1931 3624 Chestnut St, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA. NEW 1932 9005 188th St., Hollis, L. I., New York 
Herbert Giorgio 

Donald Wise Gas & Electric Bldg.. President: Joseph 
YORK—Dr. John F. Kelley. '22. Peoples-1933 1246 Hillcrest Road, South Bend, Indiana 
W. Fullem. '31. 1621 Nuilson St.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA —John B. Beardon, 
•22, IS Union Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh, President: Joseph Bach, '25, Duquesne 

University Athletic* Dept., Pittsburgh, DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
Secretary. 

District Gallic Address
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN 

WASHINGTON—Dr. Qarence Shannon. I John W. Eggeman. '00 Old First Bank Bldg., Fort Wa>-ne, Ind. 
O.S. '02: Stimson Bldg., Seattle. Wash.. 

II Danid Hilgartner, Jr.. '17 2039 E. 72nd PI.. Chicago, Illinois. 
President: E. Morris Starret, '14-21, EI. '23. 801 Washington St., Port Town-

III E. C. McHugh. '13 4220 Cherry St., Cincinnati, Ohio send, Wash., Secretary. IV John V. Diener. '09 704 Cass St.. Green Bay, Wisconsin V Raymond J. Kelly, '15 City Hall, Detroit, Michigan 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. Gaffney, 'SS-'SO, 54 Park 

VI Thomas Farrell, '26 96 N. Walnut St. East Orange. N. J. PI., Waterbury, Conn., President: James VII William A. Daunt, '08 110 E. 42nd St. New York City 
M. Monaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St., Water-Dr. Robert Bums, '17 
VIII 948 Main St. Buffalo, New York 
bury, Conif., Secretary. 

IX Joseph P. Gartland. '27 60 Congress St.. Boston, Mass. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, X Anselm D. Miller. '25 1238 Maple St, Roanoke, Va. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citi­Harold Foley. '21 
XI Foley, Florida 
zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling. Presi­dent: George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, 

XII Frank Bloemer. '22 126 E. Jefferson St. Louisville, Ky. Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. XIII Arthur Carmody. '15 819 Slattery Bldg.. Shreveport La. XIV Joseph A. Menger, '25 107 Catherine Court San Antonio. Texas 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P.. 

XV Dr. D. M. Nigro. '14 531 Argyle Bldg., Kansas City, Missouri Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson. Newburgh. XVI Richard B. Swift '20 Kohl Bldg.. Davenport. Iowa XVII 418 Hennessy Bldg., Butte, Montana 
New York. President: Miss Rose Stef-Dr. B. C. Monahan. '90 faniak, 161 Walnut St., Coldwater, Mich. Secretary. XVIII 
Robert Fox, '01 5730 17th Ave. Parkway, Denver, Colorado XIX James D. Barry, '97 82 W. Pennington St. Tucson, Arizona NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-XX Howard Parker, '17 Sutter Club, Sacramento, California 
TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25, 1018 
E. M. Starrett, '21 

XXI 801 Washington St, Port Townsend, Washington Smith, '24, 126 Roslyn Dr., Secretary. xxn Alfonso Zobel, '24 CO. -Ayala & Cia, 21 Galle Juan Luna. Manila, P. L First National Bank. President: Norman 
voi/f\LA garettes 
Of all the ways in which tobacco is used the cigarette is the mildest form 
Yo u know, ever since the In­dians found out the pleasure of smoking tobacco, there have been many ways of enjoying it. But of all the ways in which tobacco is used, the cigarette is the mildest form. Everything that money can buy and everything that Science knows about is used to make Chesterfields. The tobaccos are blended and cross-blended the right way — the cigarettes are made right — the paper is right. There are other good cigarettes, of course, but Chesterfield is the cigarette thai's milder the cigarette that tastes better 

esterfield 
^^ . .just try diem 
© 1933. IiGOEiT S: MYBBS TOBACCO CO. 







