The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
This book is BOt i6 Ve ©6c taken from the Librarv 

Notre Dam ALUMNUS 
•J^EV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C^.C, PH.B., 'U Dynamic President Inspired Prefect Pioneering Dean Constant Friend 
January, 1935 
The 'J^otre 'Dame cAlumnus January, 1935 
CCMMCNT 
"THE JANUARY THAW" 
BY JUSTIN THYME 
"I've seen thousands and thousands of Januaries, and I never saw one without a thaw yet."—Lady of Very Uncertain Age. 
RECITATIVO Let others sine the joys of Spring Or Autumn's glories feebly bring Before our satiated gaze. Familiar with their works and ways. Such worn-out themes suit poets raw: I sing the January thaw, 
AMA 
The cold snap is o'er and the breezes From southerly regions blow; No longer the wayfarer freezes Though the earth be still covered with snow. For soon shall tbii snow-Kirift be melted Its texture enables the boys To mould that soft missle, which pelted. The pompous too often annoys. 
The snow with its ice-fetters busted * Descends from the roof with a rush. The boys from the lake come disgusted Unable to skate in the slush. . ." 
^ The r in this word adds nothing to its force, but rather detracts from it: so that energetic persons usually omit it, and the poet has judiciously followed their example. 
The above selection from the Rhymes in Season of the famed Pro­fessor Stace, is intended as a pleas­ant and anaesthetizing prelude to more serious words. 
This is January, 1935. 
Circumstances have once more pre­vented the Alumni OfBce from en­joying the advantages of time in promoting the program of student contacts. 
Therefore, the Spring again looms with its terrifying amount of detail. 
It calls for all of the leniency for omissions and efficiency of comissions you possess. 
We plan again to contact as many of the Clubs as possible, not so much from the OfBce staff this year as with various personalities from the cam­pus who may be of more interest to the Clubs and schools. 
Vital, however, to this program, and of immeasurable significance in view of the expanse of territory, is the program of student contacts through alumni interviews. 
We shall call upon you freely. All of the obstacles are understood. But the nearer we can come to achieving this program, the greater the service to Notre Dame, with all of the alumni benefits that have been defined as ramifications of this program, and which we believe you thoroughly un­derstand. 
If you won't get over-confident, you did a swell job last Spring, and just 
•repeating that would be worth all the effort. However, let's see if we can't kick a few of the points after touch­down this year. 
The new course in aeronautical en­gineering announced for 1935-36, ten­tatively, ought to be one of the finest weapons in the hands of the field force Last spring it seemed that the so-called "popular" demand in high schools revolved about aeronautical engineering, radio engineering, and journalism. 
Notre Dame has a splendid course in journalism, long tried and proved true by its graduates. 
The radio engineering foundation, while not definitely outlined as a "course" is here for the study, with a background that reaches back into Prof. Greene's wireless successes. 
The newly announced course fills the popular program with no sacrifice of. tiiose fundamentals of education which Notre Dame has always stood for. 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION of The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration BIdg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
District 1. Timothy 1*. Galvin, '16. Hammond, Indiana District 2. James H. Brennan, *20. Chicago, Illinois District 3. Hev. M. L. Moriarty, '10, Qevelaild, Ohio District 4. Daniel Coughlin, '22, Waseca. Minn. District 5. Joseph F. Sanford, '21. Muskeeon, 3Iichigan District 6. John Purcell, '26, Fanwood, New Jersey District 7. William A. Daunt, '08, Long Island City, New York District 8. I«o Kelley, '22. Syracuse. New York District 9. Charles Grimes, '20, Providence, Rhode Island District JO. Forest Fletcher, '12, Lexington, Va. District 11. Matthew M. O'Brien, '31. Tampa, Fhi. District 12. Edward H. Pfciffer, '22, Louisville, Kentucky District 13. Hobert Evans, Jr., '28, Vicksburg, Mississippi District 14. .Tames P. Swift. '24, Dallas, Texas District IS. Edgar F. Moran, '17, Tulsa. Oklahoma District 16. R. Gerald Jones, '22, Dixon, Illinois District 17. Thomas C. Kasper, '21, Brookings, South Dakota District 18. Robert Fox, '01, Denver Colorado 
District 19. James H. Bach. '07, San Diegb. California District 20. Keene Fitzpatrick. '13, San Francisco, California District 21. James L. Hope, '11, Astoria. Oregon District 22. Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris, France 

ALUMNI BOARD 
FKAKK C. WALKER '09---------- Honorary President TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, 'is------------- President BERXARD J. VOLL, '17---------- First Vice-President GBATTAN T . STAJfFOlD, '04-------- Second Vice-President JAMES B . ARMSTRONG, '25--------- Secretary-Treasurer WILLIAM R . DOOI£Y, '26---------- Assistant Secretary ROBERT E. LYNCH, 'OS-------------- Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94------------- Director FRED L. STEERS, 'Ii --------------- Director JAMES E. DEEBV, 'lo--------------- Director 
M. HARRY JIIUEB. 'lo ---------• (ex officio) Director JAUES S. KEARNS, '34----------(one year) Director 




The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARUSTBONG, *25, 
Editor 
WiLUAM R. OOOLETt •26. 

AtaoevUe Editor 

VOL. XIII 
The matnixtne is published monthly durinf: the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dam^ Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of stnsle copies is 25 cents. The annual alunmi dues of $5.00 inehMfo a year's subscziption to THE ALtJHNCS. Entered as second-class matter JanuJiry 1, 1923, at the jwst office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to TTie Notre I)ame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame. Ind. 
JANUARY, 1935 
Uember of the AmeriesB Alumni ConndL 
Member of Natl. CiUboUe Ahmmi Federatloo 
No. 4 

// WHAT // 


 IS THE USE OF PHILOSOPHY TODAY? 
Notre Dame Instructor Draws Brilliant Distinctions of Particular Appeal to the Amateur Philosopher or the Laymen Lured into Philosophical Defense. 
(Notre Dame alumni, particularly in dis­cussins: the value of philosophy with prospec­ti%'e students or their parents, almost inevi­tably come into contact with the need for defining: that value. It is therefore with a feeling: of offering such loyal champions a powerful weapon, as well as with the edi­torial satisfaction of presenting a splendid in­tellectual article per se, that the AUTMXCJS prints this article prepared for it by Dr. Mc­Mahon. The author is a grraduate of De Paul and Catholic Universities, and studied at Lou-vain, Munich and the Angelico College in Rome.—Ed.) 
They are still asking that question in the classes in Metaphysics; "What is the use of Philosophy?" And they are still astonished when the profes­sor replies: "You're correct. It is of no use." You may be sure that the professor, in saying this, is making a mental reservation or tsvo. If he is a good Scholastic, he is making an all-important distinctoin that we can dwell upon in a moment. Yet, the professor is altogether sincere when he assures the somewhat cynical young metaphysician that philosophy serves no useful function, that in so far as helping a man to make a liv­ing, it is as valueless today as (for example) a course in Bond selling. 
-A.ttend for a moment, please, to that term "useful." My dictionary de­fines "useful" as "serving a use or purpose." This world is filled with useful things, such as trains, lights, cups, canes, stadia, and poker chips. Without that category of things dubbed "useful" this world would be more than tincomfortable. It would be intolerable. We appreciate a conven­iently-timed train to take us some­where, we like lights which make reading easy, we prefer to drink out of cups than out of our hands, etc. But mark you, these useful things by their very nature are there for the acquisition of something else, and this other thing is what our interest chief­ly is in. Who classifies a thing as "useful" automatically subordinates it to something he regards as of greater worth. It is a matter here simply of distinguishing between means and ends. To cultivate a person because of his "usefulness" to you is not near­ly the compliment to him (or to your-
BY FRANQS E. MCMAHON, PH.D. 
Instructor in Philosophy 

self) as liking him for his own sake. 
No, absolutely no, philosophy is not "useful" in this sense. Philosophy be­longs in the realm of ends, not means. It is something absolute, not relative. Other things are subordinated to 
Football Banquet 
Irrelevant to the article sur­rounding it, but very relevant to its readers, announcement has just been made by Presi­dent AVilliam F. Sheehan, '25, that the FIFTEENTH ANNU­.4.L CIVI C TESTIMOOTAL FOOTBALL B.A.NQUET, spon­sored for the Notre Dame foot­ball team of 1934 by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, will be held in the East Hall of the University Dining Halls at 7 o'clock on Tuesday, Jan. 15, 1935. Tickets, t\vo dol­lars ($2) each, can be secured from Herbert E. Jones, '27, Box 71, Notre Dame, Ind. .\ table seats 12 persons. 
John T. McGovem, famous Eastern sportsman, will act as Toastmaster. Many prominent coaches, in addition to Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, Rev. Michael Moriarty, '10, and Elmer Layden, '25, will head the list of speakers. 

philosophy, not philosophy to them. Aristotle, clearest mind among the pagan Greeks, saw this with unusual clarity. He had a faculty for putting things in their right place (that means he was wise, because wisdom consists precisely in that). In list­ing the possible ultimate goals of htmian existence, he concludes that contemplation of the highest truths is the only end worthy of man. Now what has philosophy been from the earliest days but this pursuit and contemplation of the highest truths accessible to man? No one dreams of asking the dollars and cents value of a mother's love? No one in his sane moments inquires about the util­ity of the Parthenon or of the Venus di Milo. It is just as irrelevant and irreverent to place a price upon Philosophy. 
But the story is only half complete. If the professor has convinced the skeptical student that philosophy is superior to anything merely useful, perhaps he ivill expound about its in­direct value to the individual and upon its importance in the history of the race. The story is told of a noted English philosopher. Viscount Haldane, that at the outbreak of the World War he was called from his books to take charge of an important post in the Ministry of War in Lon­don. When his friends remonstrated that, after all, he was very ignorant of the work in question, and that prudence would dictate his not accept­ing, he calmly replied: "My knowl­edge of Kant and of Hegel will carry me through." Kant and Hegel were as directly related to the tasks as­sumed as the Odes of Horace are to the Mount Wilson Obervatory. Yet 
this learned man was aware that a knowledge of philosophy is often of positive help in the acquisition of other kinds of knowledge. Why this is so, perhaps no one with certainty knows. Yet the occurrence is frequent. Viscount Haldane acquitted himself remarkably well. 
.\fter all, does a knowledge of a thing's place in the sphere of being help in no manner in the acquisition of a more detailed imderstanding of it? That is the philosopher's prov­ince: to treat of the totality of things, of beinff. In a manner, philosophy is the most natural kind of knowledge: of all forms of knowledge it best cor­responds to the human intellect. Just as the eye is ordained to perceiving color, and the ear sound, so the intel­lect naturally turns to being. Deprive the intellect of this knowledge of be­ing as such, you deprive it of that which is most akin to it Yon cripple it. -\nd given the most minute knowl­edge of a thing, if one cannot decide where in the sphere of being that thing belongs, one cannot be said really to know it as it is. This is the reason some eminent modem • scientists (as Einstein) have indulged in rather naive speculation about God and religion on the basis of their physical theories — they have never grasped the metaphysical value of their scientific theories.l And the contrary is true: equip a man with a sound knowledge of Philosophy, and that mind of his, fortified and exer­cise upon an object co-extensive with its natural sweep, should master with less difiiculty other things. At least he will keep sane and avoid naivete. 
Is philosophy, moreover, important in the evaluation and comprehension of current events in the social, pol­itical and economic world? There are those who are inclined to regard phil­osophy as something wholly out of touch with life. It is a form of knowl­edge, these people say, which can and should occupy the attention of the man of leisure or the academician. These people will even accept its role as the crowning achievement of hum­an speculation. But to admit it as something of more than academic in­terest is, they believe, to go beyond the facts. Is their position warranted? 
Let's take a look at the record. All 
will concede probably that the most 
significant social and political up­
heaval of recent times has been the 
Kussian Revolution. Before our very 
eyes has been effected a change which 
(some of the experts say) is actually greater than the one produced by the French Eevolution. Old standards governing political, social, familial and individual life have been re­placed by new ones. Children have been taught to revile religion. They have been taught to report parents who are luke-warm Bolshevists. Young people have been told to abol­ish their scruples about free love. Abortion has been sanctioned by the State, and sterilization is a common practice. And so on. Now, what are the origins of Bolshevism? 

The most important thing to rea­lize about Bolshevism is that it is primarily a philosophy. It had its origins in the minds of a few men. This philosophy has a technical name, and these minds belong to well identi­fied fig:ures of history. The philoso­phy is called Dialectical Materialism: the minds were those of Karl Marx, 
F. Engels, and Lenin. These men pos­sessed two remarkable qualities: they were gifted with the power to think things through (i.e., they were phil­
(1) Every alumnus who has had a course in Philosophy should read The PhUosophy of Seienee by Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen (Bruce Pnhlishing Company, Milwaukee, Wis.) This is the best work in English on the relations between Philosophy and Science. 
The 'j^otre 1)ame cAlumnus 
osophers); and they were able to de­vise a program to put their ideas into practice. Listen to one of the ablest writers on Bolshevism: "It is impos­sible to tmderstand Bolshevism with­out knowing its philosophy. No doubt its success and the practical results of that philosophy have been closely bound up with particular historical and social conditions. But their phil­osophy is not simply the result of these, the expression and justification of a change in the classes governing Russia. On the contrary, it has to a very large extent determined the ex­ternal development." (2) It is inter­esting to note that a great portion of Lenin's writings deals with matters that by the unthinking would be clas­sified as purely of "academic inter­est." Events have shown there was dynamite here. 
Karl Manx, the nineteenth century social reformer, whose great work "Das Kapital" became the Bible of Lenin, was reared intellectually in the German universities of his time. While a student, he came under the influence of Hegel. It was from He­gel that he obtained his notion of the dynamic (dialectical) character of reality, and applied it to the imder­standing of human history. According to Lenin himself it is impossible to understand "Das Kapital" without a knowledge of Hegelanism. (3) The links in the causal chain are sufii­ciently evident: Hegel to Marx, Marx to Lenin, Lenin to the Revolution. Now, of all modem philosophers there is probably none who had thought so unimaginatively, expounded so aca­demically, and written so unintelli­gibly as George Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Berlin (died in 1831). Yet, if we can believe Lenin, it is im­possible to understand Karl Marx, and therefore impossible to grasp the significance of the Russian Revolu­tion, without going to this philoso­pher! This sounds chimerical. One might even dare to say that two types of men are capable of appreciating this linkage between an abstract phil­osophical formula and the concrete fact, the convinced Bolshevik and the convinced Roman Catholic. The Bol­shevik Lenin and the Catholic Pope Leo X m may disagree on every­thing else but they would agree on this. Both saw history for what it really is: the incarnation of ideas and of ideals. In a famed encyclical letter, Pope Leo XIII said: 
Whoso turns his attention to the bitter 
strifes of these days and seeks a reason for 
the troubles that vex public and private life. 
must come to the conclusion that a fruitfol 
cause of the evils which now afllict. as well 
as of those which threaten us, lies in this: 
that falsi: conclusions conceminff divine and 
human things, which orioinated in the schools 
of philosophy, have crept into all the orders of the State, and have been accepted by the common consent of the masses. 
(2) Gurian, W.2 Bolshevism, Theory imd 
Praetiee. 3Tacmillan. p, 20S. 
January, 1935 
It is, I know, difficult for empirical­ly-minded Americans to grasp this truth. But some day will see it, and they will then assent to the sage ob­servation of Chesterton that "it is not the question, whether philosophy is important, but rather, whether anything else is important." 
If a bad philosophy is at the heart of a destructive movement (as Bol­shevism), a good philosophy is the very essence and driving force of construction and reconstruction. Herein does one find the reason for the revival of the wisdom of St, Thomas Aquinas, a philosophical movement which began with Leo's Encyclical Aetemi Patris (quoted above). The revival of Thomism rests upon several assumptions: 1) That there is something lamentably lacking in modem life, and this lack (and its causes) constitutes a threat to Christian civilization; 2) The causes are largely philosophical in origin; 3) The philosophy of St, Thomas can nullify the operation of these causes and thereby supply the lack so far as natural agencies can. Spread over the world today are great philosophical power plants, such as the universities in Europe and in the United States imder Cath­olic auspices, where men are busy instructing neophytes in the secrets of Thomism (they still are secrets that await being told to the mass of men) and also busy in research into the genesis of that philosophy and in its augmentation by modem find­ings. There are those gigantic as­sumptions behind it. If you accept those assumptions, all of them, you are a Thomist. If you do not accept them, then the words of Jacques Ma­ritain, one of the greatest of living thinkers and a zealous Thomist, are to you as a stumbling block: "What is needed above all is a restoration of Metaphysics and a new expansion of Charity." (4) 
But when the heat and smoke of battle shall have passed away, when peace shall have settled upon the hearts of men, their minds will turn to that subject which is the delight of the gods. In this temporal abode, to contemplate the highest truths through the veil of reluctant matter; in the abode of eternity to intuite the Supreme Truth—such is the philoso­pher's calling. Such, moreover, is the more or less unconscious quest of all men, a quest that finds its ul­timate and supreme satisfaction only in the Beatific Vision. 
(3)
 Gurian, p, 209, 

(4)
 This sentence, taken from Maritain's Anffelie Doctor, is the key to all the sreat work of Maritain, this writer believes. Rec­ommended to those for whom presently Ma­ritain is but a name are the following writ­ings of his, to be read in the order named: 


Theonaa, Introduction to Philosophy, The Angelic Doctor. 

GURIAN, Bolshevism, in Theory scholarly historian, is the best written and Practice. The best account of on the very urgent problem of 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 

it; is now used by Harvard as a text. exaggerated nationalism. (Macmill­(Published by Sheed and Ward). an.) 
(As a very interesting supplement to Dr. McMahon's article, the ALUM­NUS prints this very timely bibliog­raphy, prepared by Rev. Leo R. Ward, '23, just before he left for Oxford, where he is doing graduate work. Ed.) 
DAWSON, CHRISTOPHER (a convert who is commanding the atten­tion of all intelligent readers; he has vast knowledge of history; every work by him is worth reading): 
1.
 The Age of the Gods; a sane and very readable account of what we know of prehistoric man. 

2.
 The Making of Europe; proba­ably the best history of the back­ground of modem life and thought; this work is now being used in many non-Catholic colleges as a text. 


3. Eyiquiries into Religion and Ciilt>tre; good philosophical essays. 
4. Progress and Religion; a very readable account of their historical relations. 
5. The Spirit of the Oxford Move­ment; 1933. 
6.
 Christianity and the Neio Age; very good as an introduction to the series, "Essays in Order." 

7.
 The Modern Dilemma; easy to read; a series of radio addresses. (Dawson's works are all published by Sheed and Ward, 63 Fifth Avenue, New York Citj'). 


"Essays in Ordei;": a series on the relations of Catholic philosophy to the problem of achieving order in the modem world (all published by Sheed and Ward):—Dawson, no. 6 and 7 above. 
WXJST, Crisis in the West; very much alive to the deeper currents in religious thought and life, and fairly easy reading. 
MARITAIN, Religion and Culture. Maritain is a little hard to read at first, but is probably, of all modems, most worth reading; he is a convert, knows modem philosophy and is a profound scholar of Thomistic thought. 
WATSON, The Bow in the Clouds; a philosophical study, written in great style, as a kind of phantasy. 
BERDYAEV, Russian Religious Psychology; probably the best of all the Essays in Order. (Ask Sheed and Ward for their catalogue and the full list of the Essays in Order which sell at $1.00 each.) 
S. BEEN, The Eternal Magnet; a fairly good history of philosophy by a Catholic (published by Devin-Adair, New York). 
TAWNEY, Religion.and the Rise of Capitalism. Probably the most enlightening of all modem books. Is ^vritten by a non-Catholic historian of economics. (Harcourt, Brace, New-York.) 
LORD, .'imichair Philosophy. Chatty little essays; easy to read (America Press). 
McWILLIAMS, Cosmology. Very sane, simply imtten (Macmillan). 
O'GRADY, Cosmology. Written with ease and charm; alive to present problem s (Graphic Publishers, Ottawa). 
ADAM, KARL (all works by Adam are the last word in scholarship and are modem in tone and approach; they are works in religion, and not properly in philosophy): 
1. Christ Our Brother. Scholarly, not hard to read. (Macmillan.) 
2. Saint Augustine. (Macmillan.) 
3.
 The Son of God. (Sheed and Ward.) 

4.
 The Spirit of Catholicism. Very great; profound, exact. (Macmillan.) 


Good Recent Writings in Philosophy 
LUNN, ARNOLD, Now I See. A vivid account of coming into the Church; a work in religion. (Sheed and Ward.) 
MOODY (the famous investment expert), The Long Road Home. Has had much favorable attention; a work in religion and apologetics. (Mac­millan.) 
E. R. MOORE, The Case against 
Birth Control. Clear, powerful, exact (Century Company, New York.) 
DeGUTHENEERE, Judgment on Birth Control. Powerful, full of facts, easy to read. (Macmillan.) 
ALLERS, R., Psychology of Char­acter. Puts Catholic thought and all that is best and usable in psychiatry together into a work that teachers, priests, and parents should read; there is a longer, costlier edition, and a new brief, simple, cheap one. (Sheed and Ward.) 
MOORE, DOM THOS. V., Dynam­ic Psychology. This is full of experi­mental facts, is as interesting to read as a novel, and is written by a great Catholic scholar. (Lippincott Co., Philadelphia.) 
(These works by AUers and Moore put one up to date on the best in psy­chology and psychiatry.) 
HAYES, C, Nationalism. This work by Hayes of Columbia Univer­sity, New York, a convert and a 
E. GILSON. 1. The Philosophy of St. Thomas. Very exact. (Herder, St. Louis.) 
2.
 Moral Values and the Moral Life. St. Thomas' ethical system. (Herder, St. Louis.) 

3.
 Gilson's important work on "the spirit of mediaeval philosophy" will be brought out in translation by Sheed and Ward soon; also his work on S. Bonaventure. 


JACQUES MARITAIN. 1. The Angelic Doctor. A sketch of St. Thomas' life and work.' (Dial Press, New York.) 
2.
 Art and Scholasticism. For those technically and philosophically interested in art. (Sheed and Ward.) 

3.
 Conversations with a Sage. The most readable work of Maritains for the non-philosopher. (Sheed and Ward.) 

4.
 An Introduction to Philosophy. The best introduction to philosophy, by Catholic or other. (Sheed and Ward.) 


5.
 Three Reformers : Luther, Des­cartes, Rousseau. Brilliant. (Scrib­ners. New York.) 

6.
 The Things that are Not Cae­sar's. A deep, readable and applica­ble study of political philosophy. (Scribners, New York.) 


SHEEN, FULTON J., God and In­telligence. A profound, exact study; the principles of St. Thomas applied to this modem problem. (Longmans, New York.) 
Philosophy of Science. Brand new; up-to-date; well written. (Bruce Co., Milwaukee.) 
WARD, L. R., Philosophy of Value. An attempt to meet a modem prob­lem on its own ground. (Macmillan.) This work was superseded by the author's Valites and Reality, pub­lished by Sheed and Ward in Novem­ber. 
BERDYAEV, The End of Our Time. A brilliant and popular study of the thesis that the energy tapped at the Renaissance has run out. (Sheed and Ward.) 
JOHN A. RYAN, Declining Lib­erty in America. (Macmillan, 1927.) 
A Living Wage. The classic work. (Macmillan.) 
Church and State. Clear and very much needed. (Macmillan.) 
GILL, EEIC. Beauty Looks After Herself. A deep and simple study of art by a great English Catholic sculp­tor. (Sheed and Ward.) 
FRANC^NOHAIN. Life's an .Art. (Continued on Page 85) 
The 'bl otre 'Dame cAlutnnus 

FEENEY, POPULAR STATE SAFETY DIREaOR 
First-of-the-year, change-of-admin­istration rumors that Al G. Feeney, state safety director for Indiana, was to be supplanted by a political ap­pointment brought a storm of protest from the State, in which his work has been outstanding for its efficient non-political achievements. Governor Paul McNutt has denied that a suc­cessor to Feeney is contemplated. The following article is interesting in view of the discussion: 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Jan. 3.— (INS)—^"Cherchez la femme et trou­vez I'homme!" 
This old, time-tested, French de­tective axiom—"search for the wo­man and you find the man"—^has left unsolved only one bank robbery com­mitted in Indiana during 1934, ac­cording to Al G. Feeney, state com­missioner of public safety. 
The rapid solution of these hold­ups through spotting the woman first, then capturing the man involved and meting out smft justice has had a devastating efi'ect on the morale of would-be stickup men. 
As a result, loot stolen, at the points of guns, was reduced from ?236,818.85 in 1933 to $61,095 in 1934 or approximately 75 per cent less. Only 10 financial institutions last year were victims of bank robbers as against 38 the year before, Feeney said. He added: 
"The theory of searching for the woman and then finding your man, a practice which the late E. L. Osborne, former chief of the bureau of crim­inal identification in this state, em­ployed with tremendous success, is still followed by my department. It is a time-tried and proven theory." 
The only completely unsolved bank 
robbery of last year is the holdup of 
the Community State bank at Eoyal 
Center, Ind., on Feb. 10 last, Feeney 
pointed out. Three men robbed the 
institution of approximately $1,000. 
All other bank robberies have been 
solved either completely or partially, 
Feeney said. He continued: 

"An example of the efficacy of spot­ting the woman, and then getting your man was the case of John Dil­linger. 
"These gangsters can not give up their. molls upon whom they lavish fancy clothes and gems, bought \vith stolen money. They always associate 
•with women, their greatest weakness, and their inevitable downfall. 
"A double - crossed woman is a woman scorned. And hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. 
"These criminals always run out on their women, especially when they see others they desire more. Then the forsaken ones squeal." 
To illustrate this "cherchez la femme theory" Feeney pointed to the recent capture at Minneapolis of two youths from Anderson and one from Bowling Green in connection with the robberies of the Carbon, Ind., state bank and a branch of the Union Trust Co. in Indianapolis. He said: 
"These bandits, when in jeopardy, like rats deserting a sinking ship, left their w-omen in a car mired in the mud near Danville, 111., and escaped when capture seemed imminent. But the inevitable happened and they were taken into custody by the Min­neapolis police." 
While Feeney was expounding his theory that women led to the do\vn­fall of bandits, solution of bank rob­beries and the decrease in the num­ber of holdups, a member of the In­diana Bankers' association had a dif­ferent viewpoint. He said: 
"Indiana's status among midwest­em states regarding bank robberies changed from one of the worst to one of the best, only through the zeal with which Mr. Feeney has tackled the situation. 
"His insistence upon men of high caliber, instead of ward-heelers as policemen, institution of crime com­munications system, the road-block­ade plan and numerous other effective innovations have struck terror in the hearts of the lawless elements." 
N. D. Professor Wins Architecture Honors 
John E. Miller, instructor in archi­tecture at Notre Dame, was winner of third prize of $250 in the recent nation-wide competition for the dec­oration of the theater in the half mil­lion dollar broadcasting plant which the Chicago Tribune and its station, WGN, are erecting just north of Tribune Tower on Michigan Avenue in Chicago. 
The winner of the first prize of $2,500 in the competition was Ernest 
A. Grunsfeld, Jr., of Chicago, who has designed, among other important projects, the Adler Planetarium on the lake front in Chicago. The second prize of $750 was won by Andrew N. Rebori and Edgar Miller, prominent Chicago architects, working in collab­oration. 
Mr. Miller received his B.S. in Ar­chitecture from the Catholic Univer­sity of America in 1928 and came to Notre Dame as an instructor in Feb­ruary, 1933. His design was one of 189 submitted in the Tribune compe­tition. Fourteen cities, from Boston on the east to Los Angeles on the January, 1935 
west and from Minneapolis on the north to Austin, Texas, on the south, were represented. Nearly $5,000 in four prizes and 21 honorable men­tions were distributed by the Tribune. 
Some idea of the difficulty of Mr. Miller's task and the resultant im­portance of his achievement may be gained from the following words of Holmes Onderdonk, one of the judges: 
"The jury is thoroughly satisfied \vith the results of this competition. To find, as we did, twenty-five genu­inely notable designs among the near­ly two hundred submitted indicates that American artists and architects are alert to the new problems and difficulties which decoration of a broadcasting auditorium presents. Those problems require reticence and delicacy in their solution. To insure perfect acoustics extensive areas of heavy draperies must be avoided and for the same reason extended concave surfaces would be a mistake. In The Tribune's radio theater, which ^vill seat 600 persons, there must be an area of sound-absorbent material to supply from 3,900 to 4,600 sabins, or units of absorption, and the distribu­tion of that material in panels, strips, or patterns fitting the decorative scheme is no easy problem. AValls and ceilings of both the auditorium and the stage require closely calcu­lated areas of the absorbent material and no paint that ^vill lessen its acoustical properties can be used. 
"In short, science must go hand in hand with art in the decoration of a radio theater. 
"All the prize winning and honor­able mention designs showed origi­nality and a fine feeling for color, and the workmanship on them was of high quality." 
The ALUMNUS offers its sincere congratulations to Mr. Miller on his magnificent accomplishment. 
More, If Not Better 

"During the past 30 years a great change has taken place in our coun­try. Whereas, the total population has increased 78 percent, the number of young men and young women attend­ing college has increased 445 per­cent."—Delta of Sigma Nu. 
Pioneers of the Mind 

"There is in the spirit of a liberal education something of the self-con­fidence and the adaptability that is characteristic of our country. The pioneer does not call his life a failure if he comes to the end of one path. He knows that there are others, and with a sense of direction and a will to persevere, his life can go one with confidence into the uncertainties of the future."—President Roosevelt. 



SPORTSMANSHIP IN EDUCATION UPHELD IN TALK 
An Address Delivered by the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, at the Sportsmanship Luncheon, Town Hall Club, New York City, December 27, 1934. 
Back in the ancient days, when Terry McGovem and I were kids, there was a game called "shinny." In case you do not remember, it was a sort of polo without horses or hockey ^vithout skates. It stadium was the back alley; its ball was a tin can; its hockey club was turned by a hatchet instead of a lathe; its book of rules consisted largely of one admonition —^"shinny on your side." There was no regular league headquarters with oak-panelled walls; there was no na­tional rules commission. True, when we played a team from the next block, we agreed on a referee; and when we went south of the tracks, we took a friendly policeman along. There were, in a word, none of the elaborate trappings of modem na­tional sport, but there was lots of fun. 
While I have not yet reached the age of mellow reminiscence, I some­times think that we poor deluded Vic­torians had all the best of it in sport. We seldom lost sight of the fact that "the game is the thing." We had our over-emphasizers, of course, who were determined to win at any cost, and who clubbed heads instead of shins when defeat seemed imminent. If we took a policeman on our excursions beyond the tracks, it was to make sure that the standards of fair play, if not of scholarship, in that climate were at least no worse than our own. But we had not yet reached the stage of piling rules upon rules, and split­ting situation after situation until we lost sight of the fun the game was supposed to furnish. 
While I never like to appear in the role of a crusader, I sometimes find myself strangely in sympathy with the idea of a war to end wars and a plan to end planning. It is not that I have any particular confidence in these schemes, any more than I would have in a law to end laws. I recognize that most of us mortals are very short-sighted, and that in the pursuit of a minor objective we are prone to lose sight of our real goal. But I do wish that now and then we would stop to ask ourselves the ques­tions, 'T\Tiat is it all about?" 
After five years of depression, a large number of educators are begin­ning to ask themselves that question. In a recent interesting review of 17 prominent educators, Norman Woel­fel uses such expressions as these: "Confusion in both theory and prac­tice prevails today through the edu­cational system"; "The education of educators is so over-balanced on the technical side that educators as a class are, to a tragic extent, uncul­tured and ignorant in matters about which they should be capably in­formed"; "Confusion reigns supreme at the very heart of public educa­tion"; "The profession as a whole is outside the real social situation and leans dangerously towards moral and spiritual bankruptcy"; "Educational leaders today are as much confused as anyone else." Dr. Woelfel, you should remember, is speaking of gen­erally recognized leaders in American education. 
To make the case more complete, the largest educational association in the United States, the North Central Association of Colleges and Second­ary Schools, in its meeting last March, scrapped its whole system of evaluating the academic worth of its member institutions, admitted that it had been working in a fog, and pro­posed an entirely new scheme of examination, covering eighty points of investigation. Most significant of all is the recognition by the Associa­tion of the existence of very diver­gent objectives on the part of edu­cational groups represented in the membership. These groups have been asked by the Association to agree on their objectives, and means proposed for attaining these objectives, and they are promised that they TOU now be judged according to their own set of ideals. In other words, the engin­eering schools are invited to say what constitutes an education for engineer­ing, the liberal colleges are asked to agree on what constitutes a liberal education, etc. Just how far the lib­eral college group will get, I am not prepared to say. But if they put on their debate in the Yankee Stadium, I want a seat on the 50-yard line. 
Lest the chairman rule me out of order, I hasten to say that what I am getting at is a plea for a little sportsmanship in education. I want you to remember that, as in athletics "the game is the thing," in education the development of the child is the thing. In sport, too many rules makes us lose sight of the honest recreation sport is supposed to furnish. So in education, there has been a tendency to lose sight of the child entrusted to our care, and concentrate on credits he is asked to amass in this, that, and the other thing—particularly in the other thing. In sport we have been prone to regard the iniles as more important than the game they pro­tect; in the schools, too many teach­ers have been so concerned about their publishers' contracts and their membership in learned societies that they have forgotten their obligation to the child entrusted to their care. 
Let's take a look at the child. Sup­pose we consider your boy or girl. As a father who has assumed responsi­bility for the life of a human being, you have an obligation to see that this child can make a living and enjoy a moderate amount of happi­ness in the world in which we live. And if you believe in an after-life, you must also see that the child pre­pares its soul for a happy immortal­ity. You must recognize the need of physical, intellectual, and moral or spiritual development; a well-rounded development, with stress on each of these factors according to its import­ance. You recognize that the peni­tentiaries are full of clever men whose moral sense was never prop­erly developed; I am sure that you have all known stubborn fools who developed their will, power without paying much attention to the growth of sound judgment; and you don't have to be told what happens if a boy wears a Phi Beta Kappa key on a flat chest. These three facts have to be recognized if the school to which you have entrusted your child is go­ing to play fair—and 1 am afraid that in many instances professional educators have concentrated so much on one or two particular sides, they have missed the large picture. This is particularly true on the moral side. While there has been an effort made by a whole group of educators to disclaim any responsibility for char­acter development in the formal edu­cational process, it is significant that in the last July number of the Edu­cational Record, published by the American Counci l on Education, there are four articles dealing with character education. 
We need not go into the matter further. I am addressing a group of men who are common-sense citizens, and who are banded together in this particular Brotherhood because they believe in fair play. You certainly believe in fair play for your children, hence I take it for granted that you want for your children a well-rounded program of development, with pro­portionate attention given to the 
FR. O'HARA GETS "PRO JUVENTUTE" STAR 
physical, intellectual, and the spir­itual. 
With this assumption, I believe it is unnecessary for me to argue to the legitimacy of athletics as a part of the college program, and I need only a shadow of an argument to defend the practice of admitting the public to such athletic exhibitions as may interest them. It is customary in most well regulated college communi­ties to admit the public to debates and other evidences of academic prog­ress, just as in the days of the coun­try school-house it was customary to have a Christmas Eve entertainment with the star pupils reciting pieces for the edification of the landed prop­rietors of the district. If the public ever shows as much interest in our debates as it does in our football games, we will be glad to build an auditorium to accommodate the pub­lic, or move the debate to Madison Square Garden, as may seem best. We generally practice our debating behind closed doors, but we meet our opponents in a public forum. At Notre Dame, was have almost as many candidates for the debating team as we have for football, and we foster both activities by the same in­terhall system. But for some reason or other, the public would rather watch 22 men play football than lis­ten to six men debate. However, if the public temper changes sufficiently we may have to put a roof over the stadium, and move our football games to Washington Hall. 
It appears to me quite within the ethics of good sportsmanship to per­mit the public to pay an admission charge to witness these juvenile ac­tivities, whether debates or athletic contests, and I do not hear a great deal of objection from the calamity howlers against the practice of mak­ing this charge proportionate to the interest manifested by the public. I do like the practice of dividing the gate receipts on a 50-50 basis, wheth­er or not the other team has what is called "dra\ving power," and I feel that this should be done in any sport that is able to finance itself. If the other team is a worthy opponent fair play demands that its worth be recog­nized. 
I seem to have heard somewhere a criticism that football is over-empha­sized in our colleges, and the criticism seems to have come from someone who felt that the funds used for foot­ball, an expensive sport in its mod­em trappings, rightly belong to more intellectual pursuits. I believe that the best answer I have heard to this criticism is one that was given by Terry McGovem at a football ban­quet in New York recently when he stated that it looked as though foot­ball "wliich was dishonored and put out as a step-child a few years ago, 
As announced in the December ALUMNUS, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, president of the Univer­sity, was one of five eminent Cath­olics, contrbuting to the cause of Catholic youth, honored on Dec. 4 by the presentation of the Star, "Pro Juventute," an award of the Catholic Boys Brigade, New York. 
Following is a summary of Fr. O'Hara's address at the dinner clim­axing that brilliant event: 
The value of supervised sport in the formation of character and the part religion can play in this devel­opment were stressed in Fr. O'Hara's speech of acceptance. 
Father O'Hara took occasion to pay tribute to the work of Rev. Kilian J. Hennrich, O.M.Cap., under whose di­rection the Catholic Boys' Brigade has reached a position of pre-em­inence among the boy guidance groups of the country. He said in part: 
"On the part of the University of Notre Dame then, I wish to thank Father Kilian for being mindful of the humble contribution we have made to the spiritual upbuilding of the young men of America, and I wish to say that we esteem it a blessed privilege to be associated, even by implication, with the glorious work Father Kilian has done in a 
has now come back to support the old man when he is out of a job." If the public interest in football can be made to pay dividends that will sup­ply for waning interest from endow­ment funds, its place in the educa­tional setup is probably secure, at least for the period of the depression. 
In conclusion, allow me to come back to my plea that first considera­tion be given the child in any scheme of education. That is true sportsman­ship in education. WTien the future citizen is made a guinea pig for all sorts of experimentation; when his usefulness as a citizen is jeopardized and his happiness as a man is im­paired to make case material for some faddist professor, he is not given a square deal. Dr. Woelfel's admission of confusion in the educa­tional setup comes none too soon. There has been too much attempt to cure surface disorders, and too little view of the whole problem. Just as in medicine, there is a growing de­mand for a return of the general practitioner, so in education, there is a recognition of the fact that too many professional educators have consentrated on some single aspect of a child's development, and have missed the larger picture. And that is not fair play. 
lifetime of devotion to Catholic boys. 

"On the value of sport in the for­mation of character I need not dwell at lengrf;h. Wise direction is needed to prevent overstrain, to foster prop­er sportsmanship, and to keep physi­cal exercise in its proper place, as merely a means to an end. The Christian philosophy of recreation keeps, in theory at least, the proper proportion in these various elements; in practice, common sense plays as important a part as specialized train­ing in making recreation the hand­maiden of good citizenship and thor­ough going Christianity. 
"Following the injunction of St. Paul, we realize that every action that is not selfish can be made a prayer. Through the daily Morning Offering, the Catholic boy who seeks not his own glory but the glory of God in every action, may merit a great reward in heaven by his honest play. This is the secret of teamwork; this is the secret of sportsmanship. God is the general of the Catholic Boys' Brigade; God is the quarter­back of the Catholic football team. 'Unless you become as little children,' Our Lord warns us, 'You cannot en­ter the Kingdom of Heaven." Father Kilian leads boys to God through the things that appeal most to boys. We can find God ourselves in the same way." 
Political Intemeships 

An interesting experiment in po­litical science is being conducted by the National Institution of Public Affairs. The idea is open to juniors and seniors, graduate students and recent alumni, who have demon­strated interest in politics and gov­ernment. 
An appointment ivill be made by a faculty committee at each college up to the institution's quota. Most of these appointments will cover two months in Washington \vithout cost, a limited number including transpor­tation to and from Washington addi­tionally. 
Details can be secured from Prof. Paul Bartholomew, chairman of the Notre Dame committee, assisted by Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C, Dean Jas. 
E. McCarthy and Prof. William Downey. 

Campus K. C. Active 

An initiation of 60 new members, furnishing of a lounge club room, publication of the Santa Maria., all these things have kept the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, busy during the last month. 



NEW ELIGIBILITY RULES PLACE N. D. IN FRONT 
New A. A. Constitution Removes All Points of Collegiate Contention from Notre Dame Set-Up; Eight Semester Rule More Stringent Than Western Conference. 
A new and revised athletic consti­tution, adopted by the Notre Dame faculty board in control of athletics and now in effect, was made public recently by Dean James E. McCarthy, secretary of the board. 
One new regulation put in force by the constitution imposes a more strin­gent eligibility regulation upon Notre Dame athletes than is called for un­der Big Ten conference rules, or those followed by most other schools. This bars any student from taking part in intercollegiate athletics after he has completed eight semesters in college. 
In other words, a student taking a five-year course, for instance, could not be "held out" of competition in his sophomore or any other year and then used for a total of three years; his period of eligibility would end at the conclusion of his eighth semester in school, not the tenth, as would otherwise be the case. 
The new constitution also provides a time for the election of captains for the various teams. The coach of the particular sport is to call the meet­ing for the election of a captain for the ensuing season within three scho­lastic weeks after the final intercol­legiate event in that sport and is to preside at the meeting. The election of the various captains is made final by approval of the board. 
Changes are made in the require­ments for awarding of the ofScial sports monograms. Football require­ments remain the same—60 minutes of play in important contests design­ated as such by the board at the be­ginning of the season. Under the old regulations, play in 27 innings was required to win a baseball monogram. Now, players who have taken part in at least half of the regularly sched­uled games and for a total time equal to one-fourth of the playing season will be rewarded with the monogram. 
Basketball players are now re­quired to participate in at least one-half the regularly scheduled games and for a total time equal to one-fourth of the playing time of the season. Under the old regulations, any player who participated in two full games, designated at the start of the season by the board, received a monogram. 
Regulations for awarding of a let­ter for track have also been changed. Previously a first place in a design­ated meet was all that was necessary to get the monogram. Now, the re­quirements are that the track man must have scored at least 12 points during the track season, indoor and outdoor; or he must have won a place in the national collegiate games, or he must have been a member of a winning relay team in meets of im­portance. 
Dean McCarthy stressed the point that the constitution is not a new one, but in large part is a revision of the old. Notre Dame has followed the regulations of the Western Con­ference for a number of years and in doubtful cases has sought the counsel of Major John L. Griffith and the general committee on eligibility of the Big Ten. Notre Dame is a char­ter member of the Indiana Confer­ence. 
As always at Notre Dame, supreme authority in all intercollegiate mat­ters rests with the Faculty Board of Control, the president, of course, hav­ing authority to approve or reject any policy or ruling. He also ap­points the members of the board. 
The present members of the board, serving under appointment by the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, presi­dent, are: 
The Rev. John Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice president of the Univer­sity, chairman; the Rev. T. A. Steiner, C.S.C; the Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C; the Rev. Francis J. Roland, C.S.C; Dean James E. McCarthy, secretary; Prof. William L. Benitz and Prof. Clarence E. Manion. 
The advisory alumni members of the board are Harry Miller, the orig­inal "Red" Miller who starred on the famous Notre Dame football teams of the 1907-08-09 era and who now is general counsel for the Grasselli Chemical Corp. of Cleveland; John Neeson, city engineer for Piiiladel­phia, and Attorney Fred Steers of Chicago, vice president of the A. A. 
U. and himself a noted track athlete in his student days at Notre Dame. 
The new regulations affect the present freshman class, but are not retroactive insofar as any of the present upperclassmen are concerned. 

NEW HONOR AWARDED FR. NIEUWLAND 
New honors have recently been added to the already well-honored name of one of the University's out­standing alumni. Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, '99. 
For his investigation in the chem­istry of acetylene, which led to the development of synthetic rubber . Father Nieuwland, professor of or­ganic chemistry at Notre Dame, has been awarded the William H. Nichols medal of the New York section of the American Chemical Society for 1935. 
The award, considered one of the highest honors bestowed by chemical science in this country, goes to Fath­er Nieuwland for "basic work on syn­theses from unsaturated hydrocar­bons," according to the jury of award of which Dr. J. M. Weiss is chairman. 
Father Nieuwland will receive the medal at a ceremony marking the climax of a week's celebration of the 300th anniversary of the founding of the American chemical industries to be held in New York City at the 89th meeting of the American Chemical Society beginning April 22. 
After he receives the medal from Doctor Weiss, Father Nieuwland,will deliver the annual Nichols address. Other speakers will be Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, head of the English Department at the University, who 
•mXl discuss "Father Nieuwland — The Man" and Dr. E. R. Bridgwater, of the E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Delaware, who will discuss practical application of Fath­er Nieuwland's discoveries. 
The Nichols medal was established in 1903 by the late William H. Nich­ols, eminent scieiitist and benefactor. 
Father Nieuwland received his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1899 and his Ph.D. from the Catholic University in 1904. In 1911 he was awarded a Sc.D., at Notre Dame. He is a mem­ber of the American Chemical Soc­iety, the Deutsche Chemische Gesell­schaft and the Phi Sigma. In addi­tion, he is a fellow of the Indiana Academy of Science and in 1932 was awarded the James Turner Morehead medal of the American Acetylene Association for his work in acetylene research. He was one of the honor delegates to the convention of the International Acetylene Association in Rome last summer. 


THREE ALUMNI 
Everett G. Graves, B.S., 1876, is one of the oldest Notre Dame men, in point of years only. 
Mr. Graves activities reflect that 
E. G. GRAVES, B.S., 1876 
Active and Inspirational. 
agelessness which seems to character­ize the men of the Southwest. 
. First prize in Machine Drawing at his commencement, and a keen stu­dent interest in civil engineering summed up in a brilliant paper on that occasion, the great opportunities of Texas were wide fields indeed for his talents. 
Typical of his interest in Notre Dame is a recent letter in which he says that at the time of the Rockne Memorial Drive he missed an ap­pointment vpith the solicitor in San Antonio, and not having been ap­proached since he wished to submit a belated contribution for the Mem­orial. 
One of a regrettably few remain­ing alumni of a brilliant era of Notre Dame's history, Mr. Graves is an ac­tive and inspirational figure in the Notre Dame alumni activities of the Southwest. 
Edward P. Carville, LL.B., '09, is one of the Hoynes la%vyers filled with the matchless anecdotes of that great teacher, and at the same time enjoy­ing a success which reflects increas­ing glory on the revered Colonel. Comprising 50 percent of the Nevada alunmi, Mr. Carville is U. S. district attorney in the famous Reno terri­tory. He received this appointment after a successful district judgeship in Elko, Nev. 
Notre Dame's lawyers, succeeding in so many states, pay the most pro­found and eloquent tribute to the success of the Notre Dame law school system, one frequently questioned be­cause of just this point—the wide distribution of its graduates. 
EDWAKD P . CARVILLE 
Fifty per cent in Nevada. 
Mr. Carville has three sons, one of whom attended Notre Dame until ill­ness forced him to return West. 
Mr. Carville's activities in Nevada, as do those of his fellow alumnus there, Michael DisMn, emphasize the opportunities for Notre Dame men to carry on as individuals and at the same time raise the colors of the Uni­versity in their respective communi­ties. 
Joseph P. McNamara, LL.B., '29, is one of the younger alumni whose abilities have brought him into the limelight at a very early point in his career, giving promise of a brilliant future. 
• Joe has served tvvo years as assist­ant attorney general of the State of Indiana, performing those duties most creditably. He has been active in the way of the new young modem in political activities, to his own and the party's credit. 
In the meantime, he has, upon occa­sion, been one of the best Class secre­taries of the ALUMNUS staff; has served the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis both wisely and well; and has always been possessed of an originality that has brought forth ideas for Notre Dame and its afiilia­ated activities that keep him in the upper brackets of the Alumni Office lists. 
Joe's Juggler was one of the most consistently clever of the volumes of that lamented laugh-organ. It breathed the brief, devastating wise­crack that is so definitely Notre Dame's. Federal courts will never kill this McNamara gift. 
JOSEPH P. MCNAMAEA 
The Juggling Attorney 


COURSE IN AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING, '35-36 
Conference This Month Brings Aeronautical Renaissance on University Campus; National Figures, Including Dr. Zahm, to Discuss Aviation Preliminary to Course Set-Up 
". . . After many vain attempts to employ wings for the propulsion of balloons, it discovered that there is a vast difference bet%veen the move­ment of a balloon and that of a bird, and that the latter has not, as peop­ple formerly supposed, an abundance of buoyant power in its air-cells. There are now many engaged in the study of aeronautics and many, too, occupied in the construction of fly­ing machines. Neither study is very profitable as yet, but the art of fly­ing, if ever properly mastered, would be the grandest achievement of sci­ence, and would cause a revolution in the affairs of men. . . 
"The great problem now is to im­itate nature's excellent machines for traveling through the air; and, judg­ing from the progress of the mechan­ical arts, the rapid improvements in the use of motive power, and espe­cially from the systematic manner in which men are now pursuing the theory of flight, it seems more than probable that they may, in a few years more, be able to rival even the eagle in rapidity of movement." 
These are excerpts from an article in the Scholastic of May 29, 1882, by Albert F. Zahm, then a junior at Notre Dame. It was 21 years later that the Wright brothers, using the background of this study by pioneers like Dr. Zahm, first negotiated suc­cessful flight in a heavier-than-air machine. 
Small wonder then that the follow­ing release is titled the renaissance, though the significance of the meet­ings and the complete course in aero­nautical engineering to be introduced next Fall are not to be overshadowed by this brilliant background. Ed.) 
Leaders of the aviation world will meet at the University of Notre Dame this month for a two-day dis­cussion of aeronautics as a profession and the future of the flying industry. 
The meetings are scheduled for Jan. 11 and 15 and will be prelimin­ary to the introduction of a complete course in aeronautical engineering at the University next fall. 
Among the wartime "aces" who will come to Notre Dame for the meetings are Capt. Eddie Eickenback­er, Lieut. Al Williams and Col. Wil­liam A. Bishop of Montreal, author of "The Plying Squad." 
In addition, Dr. Albert Zahm, who has been credited by the Wright brothers as responsible for much of 
Bulletin! 

As the ALUMNUS goes to press word comes that conflicting dates have caused the cancellation of the proposed aeronautics conference for the 11th, leaving the program on the loth as the only one at this time. Features planned for the 11th and still available will be incorporated in the program of the 15th. 
their success with heavier than air machines, is expected to come from Washington for the conference. Dr. Zahm occupies the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics in the Congressional Librarj' and conducted original ex­periments in flying at Notre Dame coincident with those of the Wrights at Kittyhawk in 1903. 
Victor Kleisrath and John R. Caut­ley of the Bendix Aviation Corpora­tion will explain industrial phases of modern flying in connection TOth an inspection of the South Bend plant of the BendLx company. 
Robinson Race Horses Get Notre Dame Names 
The ALUMNUS thinks that the fol­lowing news item serves as at least a substantial answer to the problem of subsidizing athletes: 
"Jac k Robinson, All-American Notre Dame center of the past foot­ball season, has 16 horses quartered at the new Santa Anita park near Los Angeles. Robby is the only foot­ball player in the country who owns his own string of racing nags. Joe Petritz says the football star has named three of his yearlings, Lady Edyth in honor of Mrs. Elmer Lay-den; Trainer in honor of Eugene "Scrapiron" Young , Notre Dame trainer; and Professor Paul in honor of Prof. Paul Fenlon of the Notre Dame English faculty. . ." 
From the West Coast comes word that one of the best players on the Coast and a prospect for Notre Dame is the son of a prominent Hollywood director. 
And from the East comes word that Sid Glickman, the slickest player in the Metropolitan area this Fall, is headed for Notre Dame. Sid has gone to and from his high school in his own limousine with chauffeur. 
No one who remembers the era of 

Others who have been invited for the conference include Admiral Er­nest J. King, chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics of the United States Navy, and Commander H. B. Grow of Detroit, who served as aviation ad­visor to President Leg:uia of Peru, South America, for seven years after his retirement from the United States navy. 
A special landing field is being pre­pared on the university campus for pilots who intend to fly their own planes to the meeting. 
Lectures ivill begin at 1:30 p. m. on the 11th and 15th in Washington Hall. 
Eddie Rickenbacker and Col. Bish­op, the Canadian ace, will be Friday's speakers, and Commander Grow and Al Williams will feature the Tuesday program. 
Williams is flying direct from the Florida races in a 700 h.p. Curtiss Cyclone plane and vdM demonstrate the plan over the campus for the students. 
Father Will Maloney, or who has been an athlete at Notre Dame, would ever suspect the Notre Dame subsi­dies of including race horses or chauffeurs. 
Secure Intemeships 

Two '31 Pre-Medics have finished courses at Johns Hopkins and are launched in important intemeships. 
Lawrence Zell, '31, is in the prom­inent Mary Immaculate. Hospital, Jamaica, L.I., and Louis Esposito, '31, is in the busy'St. Vincent's Hospital, Manhattan. 

Only 410 

Here is what happens to an aver­age thousand names on a mailing list after three years, according to Prin­ter's Ink: 
410 have changed addresses from one to four times. 
261 have moved to parts unknown. 
7 have died, 
1 has gone to jail. 

Examinations of our own mailing list gives the further information that of the 410 who have changed ad­dresses from one to four times, 410 have forgotten to notify us of same from one to four times.—Kappa Al­pha Theta. 
84 


N. D. JUDGE PRAISED 
The Tulsa Tribune on Christmas Day devoted the following editorial to the retirement and the views of Judge Thomas D. Lyons, Litt.B., '04: 
Judge Thomas D, Lyons, who will 
retire from the district court bench 
next month, sets forth in a letter to 
the editor of The Tribune his views 
on the twin problems of prevention of 
crime and the proper treatment of 
criminals. 
Judge Lyons' discussion of the problem was prompted by an editorial in Tlie Tribune in which the judges of Oklahoma were called upon to take the lead in working out a new proba­tion system, which would provide proper guidance for juvenile delin­quents placed under probation and stricter supervision of paroles given first offenders. His experiences with habitual criminals in his court, who have been in and out of the courts and prisons many times, prompts him to disagree with The Tribttne's views. He says: 
"The first duty of a judge is to hold the scales even between the state and the defendant to the end that both sides have a fair and impartial trial. I believe that the judges may be relied on to do this. However, the state judge, as I have suggested from the bench many times, is hampered by lack of power. In my opinion two fundamental changes in criminal pro­cedure are necessary: 
1. The judge of District Court of the State of Oklahoma should be per­mitted to assist the jury by comment­ing upon the evidence as is now the practice in the Federal Court. 
"2. The Defendant, in all cases, should be subject to cross examina­tion by the State, (I realize that this is almost a revolutionary change, but I believe that the present crisis in crime demands it). 
"The most essential and far reach­ing change, however, should be made in the probation, pardon and parole system, and on that question I find myself differing from your views as expressed in your editorial. I suggest that the probation, pardon and parole system should be totally abolished for a period of at least 20 years, and that no judge, board or governor should have power to change the penalty pro­nounced against a duly convicted criminal. 
"The place for reform, in my opin­ion, is in the penal institutions. They should be made healthful, harsh and unpleasant for the criminal, some­what on the model of the Canadian prisons. A system of penal farms where hard exacting labor would be performed under healthful conditions might be considered." 
Judge Lyons recommends this treatment only for those who have 
The l^otre "Dame cAlumnus 


 FOR HIS OPINIONS 
actually committed a crime, and not for juveniles who are beginning to attract the attention of their parents and teachers and the authorities as problem cases. As to the means of preventing the making of criminals out of youths who are getting off on the wrong foot, he says: 
"Aas you sagaciously suggested in 
your editorial, the matter of the ap­
paratus of courts and justice merely 
scratches the surface. They can iso­
late the convicted criminal and should 
do so just as a smallpox patient is 
quarantined in the interest of public 
safety, but any deep consideration of 
the question must take into account 
the conditions which make criminals. 
"I believe that the conditions are in part suggested by Dr. Nicholas Mur­ray Butler in his address of last Mon­day, Dec. 17. I n the past 50 years, instead of dominating education as it had before, religion had been thrust into the background, with the result that religious knowledge and relig­ious interest is passing all too rapid­ly out of the educational process. The family and the church should accept primary responsibility for religious training. 
"'So far as tax-supported schools are concerned, an odd situation has been permitted to arise. The separa­tion of church and state is funda­mental in our American political or­der, but as far as religious instruc­tion is concerned, this principle has been so far departed from as to put the whole force and influence of the tax supported school on the side of one element of the population—name­ly, that which is pagan and believes in no religion whatever. 
" 'What is needed is a complete about face of the education of youth in the family and in the school. A wholly diiferent type of education, both in the family and in the school, must be commenced to overcome the false lure of pagan materialism and Mammon worship.' 
The Tribune not only agrees with Judge Lyons in his opinion that clos­er attention should be given to the forming character of youth in the schools, but we most emphatically en­dorse the changes he suggests in trial procedure. Impartiality in a judge, of course, is essential for the protec­tion of the innocent. But there is no excuse for the restrictions which force a judge often to remain silent when he sees the guilty escaping justice. 
The dangerous restriction placed upon the judge and state's attorney in the constitutional prohibition of cross examination of a defendant on the witness stand protects nobody but the criminal. It is an anachron­ism, carried over by the constitution-January, 1935 
N » Program N. c. A. F. 
Notre Dame supplied the program for the December forum of the Nat­ional Catholic Alumni Federation at its Middle West regional meeting at the University Club in Chicago. 
Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, '07, eminent Catholic economist, gave one of his customarily splendid and com­prehensive surveys of current eco­nomic conditions, emphasizing the fundamental purpose of the economic order as distinct from any particular form or fault. 
Bernard J. Voll, '16, Breen Medal­ist, vice-president of the Alumni As­sociation at present, and a keen stu­dent of economics, served as chair­man of the meeting. 
Army Game Veterans 
No official census has been taken, but three distinguished alumni added to a record on Nov. 24 that can pos­sibly be equalled but not beaten. 
Eev. John A. MacNamara, '97, John H. Neeson, '03, and William E. Cotter, '13, saw their 22nd Army-Notre Dame game, having seen every game of the historic series from the time that Bill Cotter, then student manager, arranged the details of the first epic battle on the Plains. 
Any further candidates for the I­Have-Seen-All-the-Army-Games Club are requested to send details to the Editor. 
Chance of Success 
If your father was a college gradu­ate, does that fact increase your chance of success? Yes, say Profs. Ellsworth Huntington and Leon Whitney of Yale, in their study "The Builders of America." "In the most important matter of all, the probability of success in life, the sons of college graduates have an over­whelming advantage," the study says. 
makers from the fear of courts that was planted in the minds of colonial Americans by the injustices perpe­trated upon the innocent by the King's courts. The people created their own courts but they insisted upon ham-stringing them as though they were to be the King's courts for­ever. It is time the people made the courts the people's courts in reality, and not merely in name. 
Judge Lyons, who has served the people well in his efforts to protect them from criminals brought into his court, suggests that the legislature should convene a constitutional. con­vention which would effect needed changes in the machinery of justice, among other reforms. The Tribune hopes this suggestion will form the basis of a petition to the legislators of every county in the state. 

Hunch (lioring and Mussey, N. Y. ?2) by Eay Humphreys, '16, brings to light an amazing success in the field of detective fiction by an alum­nus whose career has been of a na­ture that has kept him active con­stantly, although supplying equally adaptable material for this literary avocation. 
The autobiography of Ray Humph­reys, on the inside jacket of this novel, is of interest to his many N. D. friends and acquaintances. 
"I graduated as a member of Notre Dame's first journalist class. I there­upon became a cub reporter, eddied down toward police headquarters, and became a police reporter, wallowing in gore on ambulance calls, crashing doors with homicide and vice squads, and getting drenched at fires. I be­came a good picture-snatcher, a mas­ter of lurid adjectives, and the pal and confidant of dicks as -well as dopeheads, harness bulls and red-light landladies. But I still wanted to be a sleuth. 
"I -went to war, and found a niche in Uncle Sam's army secret service— composed almost exclusively of ex-coppers, ex-sheriffs, ex-la^vyers and ex-newspapermen—and got real de­tec-a-ting with a vengeance. I still hold a commission as captain, reserve corps, military intelligence. The end of the war, however, halted our de­lightful pursuit of deserters, slackers, spies, enemy aliens, groundless ru­mors, thieves, pacifists and other quarry, and I returned to police re­porting. With no war on, the secret service was as dead as yesterday's sport page, so I took the job I now hold, that of chief investigator for a metropolitan (Denver) district attor­ney's oflSce. 
"I guess I'm a dick. I've been told so—although some have been unkind enough to add the prefix 'dumb' with­out extra charge—and I can point with pride to many hundreds of cases handled, more or less successfully, in six years. Full of thrills and dan­ger, the life is never monotonous; and while you may wake up in the morn­ing and wonder what morgue you will be in that evening, you can be sure your day will be Interesting. After all, who could ask for more?" 
That brief autobiography is an ad­mirable introduction to the thrills of the book. While Brennan, the dick, and Torro, the mythical metropolis' Capone, are express fiction, the epi­sodes of the story move with the breath-taking conviction of author­ity. The story is one of those that you, like the reviewer, will start and finish in one suspense-ful sitting. 
For the alumnus who likes to di­gest his philosophical diet or his classical sweetmeats wth a brisk run in the whipping wind of fiction, this book will serve the purpose admir­ably. 
In spite of his career as an inves­tigator, so keen is Ray's journalistic sense and so able his pen, that more than 400 stories of his have found their way into the media for detec­tive fiction. 
Thn (Benziger Bros., N. Y. $1.25) by Rev. James F. McElhone, C.S.C, '11, is far on the sunny side from the grim novel reviewed above. Fath­er McElhone, who is the author of Folloiving Our Divine Model, a book of meditations for seminarians and young religious, and Particular Ex­amen, a work on the spiritual exer­cise of that name, in his new book has written a story for boys and girls. The little Irish boy, Tim, on a visit to the U. S., encounters a series of incidents that run the gamut of youthful adventure, including the modem thrill of a parachute jump and the equally up-to-date distinction of being kidnapped. All of these move in a swift tale, told by the exper­ienced Father McElhone in a way to delight your boy or girl. 
In keeping with the excellent cus­tom begun this year by the Women's Club of the Association, Sister Mary Robert Staley, S.S.N.D., '33, has sub­mitted the following Bibliography and review of the recent translation of Cardinal Faulhaber's book which contains an introduction by George 
N. Shuster, '15, managing editor of 
The Commonweal. Training the Adolescent—Rev. R. 
C. McCarthy, S.J. Milwaukee. Bruce Publishing Co., 1934. 52.00. 
My Cousin, F. Marion Crawford— Maud Howe Elliott. New York. Mac­millan Co., 1934. ?2.50. 
Judaism, Christianity, and Ger­many—His Eminence Cardinal Faul­haber. Translated by Rev. George D. Smith, D.D., Ph.D. Introduction by George N. Shuster. N. Y. Macmillan. 1934. ?1.50. 
Review—These five addresses were delivered by Cardinal Faulhaber in Munich during the Advent season of 1933. The Cardinal therein lauds the religious, social, and moral values of the Old Testament, which he defends as the essential background for New Testament truths. The concluding address inveighs against the latter-day movement in Germany towards a Nordic or pagan state religion; for as the Cardinal author says, "the German people will be either Chris­tian, or else they will cease to be." The idea that unifies the discourses is the seemingly incontestible fact that were the Jewish foundations of 

BIBUOGRAPHY 

(Continncd from Pase 77) 

Literary essays on life and art; very easy to read. (H. Holt, Pub., New York.) 
P. E. MORE, The Demon of the Absolute. A philosophical study of the modem mind and modem litera­ture; literary; by a non-Catholic. (Princeton Univ. Press.) 
MERCIER, L. J. A., The Challenge of Humanism. The best study of this important American Movement. (Ox­ford Univ. Press, New York.) 
TAYLOR, A. E., Platonism and lU Influence. Simple, easy, exact. (Mar­shall Jones Publishing Co., Boston.) 
Plato. Probably the simplest state­ment of his thought. (Dodge Pub. Co., New York.) (These two are the easiest introduction to Plato, and the best; they are brief. But anyone can read Jewett's translation of Plato's Republic, or Plato's Gorgias . . etc.) 
ARISTOTLE'S Ethics, Politics, and Poetics also are very easy read­ing for anyone. 
PASCAL'S Thoughts also is old, but is in every library and is won­derful reading. 
G. K. CHESTERTON, Orthodoxy. Probably Chesterton's best work in philosophy; written a long time be­fore he became a Catholic, but is quite Catholic (Dodd, Mead Co., New York.) (All of Chesterton's works are full of philosophy in an untech­nical way; e. g. his St. Thomas Aquinas, St. Francis Assissi, The Everlasting Man, Christendom in Dublin are particularly recommended in this connection.) 
HILAIRE BELLOC, Europe and the Faith; The Cruise of the Mona; Survivals and New Arrivals, and all of Belloc's works, are, like Chester­ton's, recommended for their (inci­dental) philosophy. 
D'ARCY'S St. Thomas; Sertil­langes' brief St. Thomas (Herder, St Louis); and 
GRABMANN'S St. Thomas (Long­mans, New York) are recommended as scholarly and fairly simple. 
Christianity undermined, in order to inaugnirate a Germanic religious cult, that cult would lose its raison <r etre. Cardinal Faulhaber, it seems to ns, is to Germany today, what Mercier was to Belgium twenty years ago. But he is more than that—^he is a world fig­ure, for he transcends the confines of nationalism and champions those uni­versal ideals which are basic in all Christianity. This is his appeal to American Catholic women. 
Mother Pauline Dies 



FRED STEERS, '11, ON ATHLETIC COMMITTEE 
Mother M. Pauline, LL.D., '21, for 
Notre Dame's prominence and pres­tige in the field of intercollegiate athletics was emphasized by the ap­pointment of Fred L. Steers, '11, Di­rector of the Alumni Association, to membership on a committee appointed by Avery Brundage, president of the A.A.TJ., to consider plans for post­graduate athletic competition. The plan is outlined as follows: 
Sponsorship of athletic competition by alumni associations and clubs of athletes who have completed their college careers received the hearty endorsement of a group of represen­tatives from various schools of the Big Ten and the East at a meeting held in Chicago at the Interfratemity Club on Wednesday, Nov. 28, 1934. ' 
Avery Brundage, president of the National A.A.U., and also of the American Olympic Association, called the meeting. Mr. Brundage, who com­peted on several U. S. Olympic teams and held both national all-aromid track and handball titles, outlined his plans for this new undertaking in amateur athletic competition. 
In addition to the Big Ten schools, other imiversities represented at the gathering were Yale, Harvard, Dart­mouth, Princeton, Cornell, Pennsyl­vania, Columbia, Beloit and Notre Dame, and officers of the National and Central A.A.TJ. 
"One of the shortcomings of our athletic system today is the fact that athletes discontinue participation im­mediately after leaving college, some­times at the expense of their well­being," Mr. Brundage declared. 
"At the beginning sports and games in this country were fostered largely by the athletic clubs. Many of the colleges and educational insti­tutions frowned upon sport participa­tion by students. Gradually condi­tions changed and today in the United States, in contrast with most other nations, practically every youth with marked athletic ability attends college. Owing to this change ath­letic club teams had come to be made up largely of college men. Practically all of the athletic clubs during the depression have been forced to with­draw from competition. This has left many college graduates \\-ithout any opporunity to continue their athletic activities." 

In addition, Mr. Brundage pointed out that the average age of athletes competing in Olympic games for for­eign countries is much older than that of the men making up the Amer­ican team. As a matter of fact, he said that the last TJ. S. Olympic team with the exception of four or five men, was made up entirely of men in college. 
"Most athletes," he declared, "have not reached their peak w'hen they leave college and have anywhere from two to ten years more of good com­petition left in their systems. It is up to the alumni associations to help foster and encoui-age competition so these men may attain the peaks of their athletic careers and also be able to taper off gradually and thereby not injure their health." 
Although the alumni groups are expected to concern themselves at first with track and field contests, there is no doubt in Mr. Brundage's mind that it will be easy to branch out into other sports. 
In Chicago, for example, the ath­letic facilities of the University of Chicago, Northwestern University, and the hundreds of schools, play­grounds and parks were offered at the meeting to enable post-graduate athletes to continue their training. Obtaining physical equipment, it was shown, is the easiest part in the for­mation of post-graduate teams. In addition, the coaching facilities of these various institutions will be at the service of the graduate athletes. 
At the suggestion of the men pres­ent, Mr. Brundage appointed a com­mittee of sb: headed by Robert L. Hunter, (Iowa), to draw up a defin­ite plan of organization and competi­tion to be presented to alumni groups in Chicago and in any other city were they may be interested in similar w-ork. Other members of the commit­tee are Fred L. Steers, Notre Dame; William H. Avery, Jr., Princeton; Herbert F. Steger, Michigan; Thomas Heneage, Dartmouth, and Howard Hare and Mr. Brundage, both of Illi­nois. 
Those who attended the meeting and pledged their cooperation in ad­dition to the men on the committee were K. L. Wilson, Illinois; Director of Athletics, Northwestern Univer­sit; C. Langford Felske, Cornell; Paul Host, Notre Dame; Charles W. Hoerger, Chicago; D. S. Egbert, Wil­liam H. Sahud and George T. Dono­ghue. Superintendent of the Consoli­dated Park System of Chicago, all from Illinois; Daird P. Wood and Judge Howard Hayes, Michigan. 
Harvey S. Olson, Purdue; S. H. Ezekelian, Ohio State; Ned Merriam, Track Coach, and Walter Wright, Superintendent of the Department of Recreation and Aviation of the City of Chicago, both University of Chi­cago; William R. Wright, Columbia; Godfrey Eylers, Minnesota; John L. Griffith, Big Ten Athletic Commis­sioner, Beloit, and Owen V. Van-Camp, Vice President of Central A.A.U. 
36 years president of St. Mary's Col­lege and one of the outstanding char­acters in the Catholic sisterhood in the nation, died Saturday, Jan. 5, at St. Mary's Infirmary. She was 80. 
Funeral services were held Tues­day morning in Our Lady of Loretto Community Church on the college campus. The Rev. William Connor, C.S.C, St. Mary's chaplain, cele­brated the requiem high mass. 
Two aged sisters of Mother Pauline attended the services. They are Sis­ter M. Clarissa of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and Mrs. Josephine John­son, a resident of the community. 
Mother Pauline was widely known throughout the United States. The history of her life is interwoven with the growth of the order of which she was a leader for so many years. 
Mother Pauline was bom in Peoria, 
111. Her worldly name was Brigid O'Neill. She was graduated from St. Mary's in 1871 and eight years later received the religious habit. 
She made her final profession of vows on Assumption Day, August 15, 1882. The celebration of her golden anniversary in August, 1932, was an outstanding event. 
In 1895 the general chapter of the community elected Mother Pauline as directress of St. Mary's. For six con­secutive terms she was returned to this post, retiring in 1931. 
Shane Leslie Coming 
Shane Leslie, Irish author and one of the foremost authorities on Jona­than Swift, will join the faculty of the University of Notre Dame on Feb. 1. He will present two courses on Shakespeare and Swift during the second semester. 
The classes taught by Prof. Leslie will be for seniors and graduate stu­dents who are particularly interested in the further study of these t\vo authors. 
Mr. Leslie will also give a weekly lecture to the public on "The Catholic Movement in English Literature." 
Professor Leslie lives in Glaslough, Ireland, but has visited the United States frequently. He was educated at Eton, King's College, University of Paris and Cambridge, and is the au­thor of many reviews, biographies, dramas and several novels. 
The author's latest book. The Ox­ford Movement; 18S3 to 1933, is a brilliant, compact and comprehensive treatment of the subject. Other books which he has ^vritten are: The Celt and the World, The Skull of Sivift, Doomsland, and The Cantab. 
A mass production of "Hamlet" in the Notre Dame stadium is planned upon the completion of Mr. Leslie's courses in June. 

BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, "32 ATHLETIC PUBLICny 


ATHLETICS 
Another promising Notre Dame basketball season was getting nicely under way as Editor Jim Armstrong popped into the office—^if popped is the word I want on the day after Christmas — and demanded this month's copy. We'd prefer to wait until after the New Year's week-end to see what Coach George Keogan exhibits to the Eastern alumni be­fore serving judgment on the 1934-35 quintet, but the presses are fairly panting, according to Editor Arm­strong, and we'll have to base our estimate on this season's prospects largely on four early season games, one of which we did not see. 
FOOTBALL 
Before getting too far into basket­ball, however, it is our duty to pos­terity to record certain doings in Los Angeles last December 8. A couple of fellows named Layden moved into town and over the Trojan wall, to the tune of 14 to 0—that's correct, two points after touchdown in the same game. Thus was marked the end of Ehner Layden's first year as Notre Dame's head football coach and director of athletics, not to men­tion what will probably prove to be the opening of the Francis (Mike) Layden era. 
It was brother Mike who, shifted from left halfback to right halfback a few days earlier to replace the in­jured George Melinkovich, scored the first touchdown on that Southern California game on one of the longest passes of the year, a toss from the writing arm of Bill (The Bard) Shakespeare good for a net gain of 51 yards. It was Mike Layden who exhibited his best spring hurdling style to go the three yards needed for the second touchdown. It was he who averaged more than four yards a trip to provide a constant threat to the right side of the Trojan line. 
Thus was fulfilled the fondest dream of those who watched these two slim, quiet young men work on the field at Notre Dame last fall. Afraid of showing favoritism, Elmer treated Mike outwardly exactly as he would any other of his players, ex­cept he wouldn't play him with the varsity. Mike acted his part per­fectly. He seldom visited Elmer's house, never went to his hotel room on trips, ran right past him without a word coming on and off the field. Words were apparently imnecessary. There seemed to be a strong, silent bond between these two young men. When Elmer put Mike with the var­sity for the last game of the year, this bond of brotherhood, with its implication of brotherly duty, enabled Elmer to win his sixth game in nine starts and to leave everyone pretty well satisfied with the way things turned out. 
CAPTAIN JOHNNY JORDAN 
An Aggressive Hawk. 
The prophets of doom—^I mean guys who say the Notre Dame system is slipping—have been hushed again, not alone by the fine job Elmer and his assistants did with inexperienced material the past season, but by the work of the other exponents of the hop-shift who learned their rudiments under Rockne. An account of their successes is carried in another column. 
Layden loses few men by gradua­tion, but they are all of the highest type: Capt. Dominic Vairo, right end who received all-American mention on almost all the selections; Jack Robinson, all-American center on the majority of teams; Rocco Schiralli, plucky little left guard whose work sparkled in every game; George Melinkovich, the only right halfback as far back as you can remember who led the team in scoring; Dan Hanley, his reliable understudy; Sturla Ca­nale, dependable shock troop left end; Fritz Weidner and Paul Schrenker, dependable shock troop guards, and others. 
The losses are few, and many have taken this as an indication that Lay­den ivill put a powerful team on the field next fall. Well, don't expect too much. He will have one of the light­est teams in the game next fall. And he_ will face a schedule which, if any­thing, will be more severe than the 1934 suicide arrangement. 


BASKETBALL 
And with that sombre thought in mind, let's look to the still more gloomy aspect of the current basket­ball campaign. Coach Keogan says that this kind of a season reminds liim of a slam bid in contract bridge when you have to work like the devil to make it. 
'TU be satisfied if we break even for the season," he says, although we all know full well he'll be satisfied with nothing of the kind. "But any­how this kind of a season is good sport. We have to give a little some­thing to each team we play. We have to figure first that we'll lose and then try to work out something to. prevent our defeat. Last year we could go into most of our games figuring on a better than even chance to win." 
And what, you ask, are the reasons for such brash statements from the little Napoleon of collegiate basket­ball? 
Number one reason is the loss by graduation of Ed Krause and Joe Voegele, who averaged something like 350 points a season for the Gold and Blue, and the loss the same way of Leo Crowe, a mighty steady little guard. When you take 350 points out of a basketball team's offense, you are talcing away just about two-thirds of its scoring punch. And when, as Keogan has often remarked, you have only two baskets to practice with, whereas your opponents have as high as 20, you don't develop great shots until well along in the season. 
Number two reason is the absence of Don (Red) Allen, 6 foot 2 inch shock troop guard of the past season from the picture. Allen, groomed for the starting job as George Ireland's running mate, contracted typhoid fever while on a visit to Chicago, and is through for the season, although we are happy to report that he is making fine progress at St. Joseph's hospital in South Bend. 
On the other hand, what Notre Dame has lost in offensive strength has been partly made up in defensive ability. Take the case of the North­western game. The Wildcats ran 29 points in 10 minutes on a typically strong Pitt team and coasted to an easy victory. But the same Wildcats scored only 26 points in 40 minutes against Notre Dame, and breathed a hearty prayer of thanks for the free throw by substitute center Leo Gross-berg which turned a 25-all deadlock into a Northwestern victory. 
Notre Dame has won its other three starts, 35 to 18 from Kalama­zoo, 37 to 11 from Albion College, and more recently, 29-19 from Stanford. In the latter game, Keogan was again able to demonstrate the effectiveness of his short-pass system against the zone defense which the travelling In­dians used effectively for 10 minutes. After piling up a 6 to 1 lead, Stan­ford found itself checked. It made only one free throw while Notre Dame ran 21 points to take a com­manding lead early in the second half. 
Keogan's squad is smaller this year than usual, both in stature and in numbers. The schedule is the kind that calls for size and numbers: Minnesota, Marquette, Butler, Pitt, Detroit, Chicago, Ohio State, Wash­ington U. of St. Louis, Illinois, Northwestern, Temple, and Xavier remain to be played—some of them twice. 
But Keogan has a way of coming through with pretty adept teams, even when the material is lean Barr­ing injuries and illness, we'll predict now that he wins 15 or more of his 22 games. But somewhere along the line he has to pick up eight victories that we can't quite see from this vantage point just now. 
It's a bit early to talk personalities, for Keogan has been shifting his line­up so rapidly that anything written now is likely to be out of date by the time the panting ALUMNUS presses give forth this manuscript. But you can count on these men to distinguish themselves: 
Forivards 
Johnny Ford, Indianapolis junior, the best ball-hawk on the team, a little poker-face, the man who did more than anyone else to defeat Pur­due's greatest quintet last season with his defensive tactics. 
Joe O'Kane, another junior, an ideal running mate for Ford, a little stockier than the Indianapolis pride and joy, but every bit as fast, and a better shot to date. 

Johnny Hopkins, Elizabeth, N. J., forward, one of the little speed de­mons for which Keogan is famous, the kind who goes into a close game midway in the second half and breaks it up. 
Vic Mettler, hard-hitting baseball star from Hammond, a senior this year, with loads of speed and all-around ability. 
Centers 

Marty Peters, Peoria junior, 6 feet 3 inches tall, 200 pounds, and amaz­ingly fast for his size, a great shot, and a greatly improved defensive man. 
The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
Don Elser, former all-star guard at Horace Mann of Gary, out of com­petition most of last season with a football injury, now flashing his old-time form, a better pumper than 
GEORGE IRELAND 
Dependable, Fiery, Smart. 
Peters, but lacking in the latter's all-around experience. 
John DeMots, dependable junior forward from Minot, N. D., who fills the breach when either Peters or El­ser need a rest. A steady hard-work­ing, dependable man. 
Guards 
Capt. Johnny Jordan, Chicago sen­ior, with two years of forward play behind him, a great ball-hawk, but handicapped by his lack of height. One of the most aggressive men on the team. 
George Ireland, junior star from Madison, Wis., 'and Campion prep, who has played in every game since the beginning of his sophomore year, a dependable, fiery, smart, quick, all-around man with a deadly bead on long shots. 
Frank Wade, unsung junior from Howe, Ind., who played only a few minutes last season, but stood up very 

Coach 
Team 
Alabama Frank Thomas . Detroit Gus Dorais Duquesne Joe Bach 

Fordham Jimmy Crowley . Georgia Harry Mehre Holy Cross Dr. Eddie Anderson . Kentucky Chet Wynne Loyola (L. A.) Tom Lieb Michigan State Charley Bachman Notre Dame Elmer Layden Purdue Noble Kizsr St. Mary's (Cal.) Ed (Slip) Madigan Santa Clara Maurice Smith Texas Jack Chevigny Washing^ton Jimmy Phelan 
Totals . 
January, 1935 
well for nearly 40 minutes against 
Northwestern this year. 
John E. Bonner, the only sopho­
more member of the cast, a product 
of Philadelphia, Pa., and a likely-
looking second year prospect. 
Maybe ifs not so bad after all. 


THE ROCKNE SYSTEM 
The Notre Dame or Eockne System 
of football, which has been relegated 
to the junk heap by various self-
appointed experts in recent years, is 
still stumbling along in its own 
quaint way, with its fair share of 
victories, according to a compilation 
made by the department of sports 
publicity. 
This record includes figures taken 
from the logs of 15 teams which are 
listed in an impartial newspaper as 
"the outstanding teams in the coun­
try." The list includes many teams, 
such as Michigan and Southern Cali­
fornia, which had poor seasons, and 
does not restrict itself to winning 
teams. Thus, the list of Notre Dame-
coached teams included in this paper 
may be taken as typical if not com­
plete. Of the teams listed, 15 are 
coached by Notre Dame men, using 
the hop-shift, balanced line, etc. 
The record shows 98 victories, 33 
defeats, and four ties for the entire 
group. But more significant than the 
won-and-lost figures are the scoring 
totals. These teams piled up the 
amazing total of 2,329 points to their 
opponents' 825 in the season just 
ended. All of which w^ould indicate 
that the system which Layden is 
using at Notre Dame and which 
others are using in all sections of the 
country, can still go out and get a 
touchdown once in a while. 
The chart printed here, as you will note, fails to take in such teams as North Carolina State, coached by Hunk Anderson; Missouri, coached by Frank Carideo, and one or two others which had poor seasons. On the other hand it ignores Marty Brill's imdefeated LaSalle college team. Moon Mullins' strong St. Bene­dict's eleven. Tommy Yarr's success­ful John Carroll squad, and others which won many more than they lost. 
Following is the chart, submitted Avithout further comment: 

Won Lost Tied Points 0pp. 
Pts. 
„9 0 0 287 32 
„5 3 0 112 59 
„8 2 0 322 22 
_5 3 0 165 92 
-7 3 0 141 56 
_8 2 0 187 61 
„.5 5 0 123 86 
._.7 2 1 179 44 
_.7 1 0 127 43 
_6 3 0 108 56 
.._5 3 0 93 75 
__6 2 0 118 37 
__7 1 1 126 26 
„7 2 1 137 85 
—6 1 1 104 51 _98 33 4 2,329 825 

BERRIEN COUNTY 
The young, peppy Notre Dame Club of Berrien County launched its official career with a dance at the Four Flags Hotel, Niles, Mich., Sat­urday night, Dec. 29, that packed in several hundred people from Niles, St. Joseph, Benton Harbor, Buchanan and included a delegation of some dozen Notre Dame faculty couples and a few of the students marooned pleasantly for the holidays. THOMAS GRIMES acted as general chairman of the affair, ably assisted by all of the members of the club. EUGENE O'TOOLE, vice-president of the Club headed a splendid representation from the shores of Lake Michigan. PHIL LANDSMAN and BILL DES­ENBERG brought over a Buchanan contingent. The Committee had Niles well represented from all angles, and PROF. BILL DOWNEY, president of the club, combined his executive and faculty identities to embrace a big turnout of N. D. faculty brethren and their dancing partners. 
BOSTON 
In the way of news from North­eastern shores, the Boston Club is holding a meeting on December 20 to make final preparations for the N.D. -Holy Cross New Year's Eve. There is little doubt that the game will be a sellout, and we are hoping that the natives will learn just how the game is played. 
By co-operating with the under­graduate group the Alumni club hopes to add enough punch to put across a successful dance at Long-wood Towers on December 26. 
ADAM WALSH, whom we all hope \vill be the next head coach at Har­vard, donated his services one day last week as Cashier for the Boston Post Santa Claus Fund. 
We have all missed PAT COHEN at recent meetings of the Boston Club, and now comes the news that he has taken unto himself a bride. 
In behalf of all the members, JACK SLATTERY and myself extend to the faculty and other men of Notre Dame our best \vishes for the Christ­mas Season. 
Regards, 
JIM SKAHAN. 
• 

BUFFALO 
A meeting was held in Buffalo Athletic Club, Nov. 24 to listen to the broadcast of the Army Game. Fif­teen members were on hand to cheer, and nearly tear the walls out when Dan Hanley caught that last pass. 
Alumni are co-operating with the 

campus club in promotion of the 
Christmas Dance, December 26th in 
Hotel Statler. HANK BURNS and 
GORDON BENNETT report many 
reservations from the grads. 
FRANK O'MARAH. 

CAPITOL DISTRICT The Albany Times-Union of Nov. 27 in picture and story carries an eloquent tribute to the activities of of the Club through the presentation of the annual Rockne trophy. This cup is the key of competition among the Catholic high schools of the Dis­trict. Christian Brothers Academy, Al­bany, won the trophy this year, and the coveted cup was presented to the winners at a dinner attended by more than 500 fans in Albany. Pres. RONALD McNAMEE of the Notre Dame Club presented the trophy's purpose and outlined plans for increasing the scope of compe­tition. Actual presentation of the prize was made by Rev. John J. King, director of athletics in the Albany diocese. Brother Edward, director of the Academy; Mayor Thacher of Albany; Captain Art Murphy of the winning eleven, and Coach Dick Ciccocella of the winners, supplemented the speak­ing program which was headed by Harry Robertson, Manhattan College, alma mater of Coach Ciccocella. 
C. B. A. played a post-season game as part of the dedication ceremonies of the Albany municipal stadium, sixth largest publicly o\vned stadium in the United States. 
The Club deserves congratulations 

.and wishes for continued success of the award from the entire Associa­tion. 
CINCINNATI We had quite a gathering of the Notre Dame Club of greater Cincin­nati at our last regular meeting, which we held on Saturday, Dec. 8, at the Kemper Lane hotel. During the afternoon, cards were played and many interesting gab fests were held. FRANK SWEENEY of the Class of '18, manager of the Kemper Lane, had the Oriental specially decorated for the occasion in the traditional gold and blue. 
At 4:45, activities ceased to enjoy the radio broadcast of the Notre Dame - Southern California football classic, and naturally everybody was in high spirits at the neat trin;ming handed out by ELMER LAYDEN and his green-shirt tribe. 
After the broadcast, a splendid dinner was served by the chairman, Mr. Sweeney. Needless to say, we were all in the right humor to thor­oughly enjoy the feed. From then on until way into the night, Notre Dame stories and traditions ran the gaunt­let. It was one of our best meetings and attended by some 25 of the Alumni. The local club is indebted to Mr. Sweeney for his fine entertain­ment. 
Next Saturday, Dec. 22, the club will entertain the undergraduates, home for the holidays. ROBERT KUERZE is to be our chairman for the day. 
On Jan. 8, the club will have its first ladies' party, wit h BO B HUGHES as our chairman. We hope to keep the old club going big for the year 1935. 
I was rather interested in the en­thusiasm shown in the Notre Dame-Ohio State football game scheduled for Ohio Stadium, Nov. 2, 1935. At a meeting of the Knights of Columbus Luncheon Club last Monday, a motion was passed to organize a special train for the game, and a committee of three was appointed to work out the details. This one group alone expects to go with five hundred strong. Being the secretary of this organization, I was given a job on the committee. I actually believe that over 2,000 peo­ple from Cincinnati will see that game as I am being besieged already with requests for tickets. 
No doubt some of the readers of the ALUMNUS will be glad to hear from some of their classmates here in the city of Cincinnati and vicinity. 
BOB MACDONALL, '30, is doing post-graduate work at the Children's hospital; GEORGE AUG, '33, is in the dairy business; LARRY JANS­ZEN, investments, with the W. L. Briddle Co.; LEO DUBOIS, 18, real­tor with the Fred'k. A. Schmidt Co., one of the largest real estate com­panies in the United States; FRANK SWEENEY, manager of the Kemper Lane Hotel; A. P. BARTON, '30, Kellogg Sales Co.; R. C. CHEVAL, '34, PhiUp Carey Mfg. Co.; AL CAS­TELLINI, practicing law with the firm of Hall, Castellini, Frey & Jack­son; JOE KINNEARY, practicing law; CLEM CROWE, '25, assistant coach at Xavier University, who has just completed one of its best seasons. Clem coaches the basketball squad. 
BARNEY HUGGER, dispatcher, -American Air Lines, Inc., told me that he and BOB HUGHES saw the Purdue game and met LYMAN HILL, SPIKE McADAMS, LOU THORTON and PAT CANNY. They 
managed to let Pat pay the taxi bill, which they felt was quite an accom­plishment. 
RICHARD SCANLON is Assistant Sales Manager of the P. Goldsmith Sons Co., manufacturers of athletic good and supplies; HARRY CRUM­LEY, Crumley, Jones & Crumley, contractors and engineers; JO E MORRRISSEY, coach at Roger Ba­con High School; BOB HUGHES, with Arthur C. Hill, brokers; DON DIXON, studying law at the Univer­sity of Cincinnati; JOE MEYER, coach and athletic director of Xavier University; JOE DAUTERMONT, Safety Department of the City of Cincmnati; CLARENCE BRINK , salesman. 
I met JOE CANTY the other eve­ning. Joeishere with the Home Own­ers Loan Corp. and a couple of other Notre Dame men. are with him. Joe promised to come to our next meeting. 
CHET WYNNE, coach of Univer­sity of Kentucky, was an interesting speaker at the Xavier University football dinner last week. 
Well, Jim, I guess I have given you about all the news. May 1 take this opponmity to extend my personal wishes for a Merry Christmas and a Happy and Prosperous New Year. Extend to the good Fathers and Brothers of the Holy Cross Order and to every Alumnus and student our best wishes. 
W. D. MORRISSEY, president. 
• 

CLEVELAND 
A signal honor has been conferred by His Holiness Pope Pius XI, upon two Cleveland alumni, the REV. EUGENE P. DUFFY, and the REV. MAURICE F. GRIFFIN, LL.D., who were recently made Domestic Pre­lates, with the tile of Right Reverend Monsignor. Monsignor Duffy, after attending Notre Dame, prepared for the priesthood at St. Mary seminary in Cleveland, and was ordained in 1904. In recent years, he has been chaplain of St. Vincent Charity hos­pital in Cleveland, and diocesan di­rector of cemeteries. MONSIGNOR GRIFFIN, after leaving the Univer­sity, studied at St. Bernard Seminary, Rochester, N. Y., and was ordained in 1908, later receiving the degree of Doctor of Laws from the University. Monsignor Griffin was pastor of St. Edward's parish, Youngstown, imtil his transfer.as pastor to St Philo­mena parish in Cleveland in 1928. 
DAN DUFFY, who before entering the practice of law here coached sev­eral Cathedral Latin School football teams to state championships, left last week for Columbus, to undertake his new duties as secretary to the Democratic governor-elect, Martin L. Davey, in charge of legal matters. 
Final details have been arranged for the Christmas formal, at Guild­hall, Dec. 29. An innovation this year is the appointment of a hostess com­mittee, composed of the following \vives of the alumni: Mrs. Joseph Heimann, chairman; Mrs. Frank X. Cull, co-chairman; Mrs. John Reidy, Mrs. George . O'Day, Mrs. Harold Ruppel, Mrs. Louis Stettler, Mrs. William VanRooy, Mrs. Gaylord Haas, Mrs. Don Miller, Mrs. William 
R. Ryan, Mrs. Charles Kaiser, Mrs. 
C. C. Brumleve. HAROLD RUPPEL, and BILL and HUGH O'NEILL, playing to­gether as the "Highwaymen" are leading contenders for the city title in the indoor polo league. JOHN RUPPEL, following Har­old's example, after finishing his course at N. D., is now attending the Harvard School of Business Adminis­tration. DON MILLER, after a successful coaching season, is now back in Cleve­land and engrossed in his law prac­tice. Don is associated in practice with his brother, the former MAYOR RAY T. MILLER, and JOHN BUT­LER. GENE MILLIFF, at National Malleable Steel Castings Co., has been making a survey of all of the company's electrical equipment. The new Alumni Directory received a lot of favorable comment here, Jim, and we all appreciate your efforts in its publication. It will be particularly useful to travelling alumni, and will 
be a means of renewing many of the contacts made on the campus. 
JUDG E and Mrs. JOSEPH P. SMITH are the parents of a very new daughter bom Tuesday, Dec. 18. Your correspondent is inclined to predict great things for this youngster, as she has had the initial astuteness to select the same birthday as his. 
PIERCE O'CONNOR. 

DALLAS 
FRANK McCULLOUGH reports' that election of officers is on Presi­dent JIM SWIFT'S docket for the post-Christmas period. Meantime Frank is busy with the Dallac HOLC, aided by JIM WALSH, a former stu­dent of Frank's, who is in the legal department. 
• 

DETROIT Another of those student-alumni misunderstandings was set at rest and a great step toward the whole settlement of the problem was af­fected by a letter which President CHARLEY MOLZ wrote to the Scho­lastic after a poorly authenticated student story appeared re the Detroit set-up. 
The Detroit alumni, through the cooperation of Leo Fitzpatrick, WJB head, enjoyed the Southem-Cal-Notre Dame broadcast from the Detroit Sta­tion. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA President JIM HAYES ^vrites that the holidays are quiet days in the national capital but that either a dinner or dance or both is or are on the docket for January-February. 
FORT WAYNE 
Thank you for your card reminding me to send something in about the Fort Wayne-Notre Dame club. 
The regular quarterly meeting will be held Thursday, Dec. 20, at the Hoff Brau Brewery. NORB BERG­HOFF, who is treasurer of the club, is also vice president of the Hofif Brau Brewery. You see we are very fortunat e in our organization, CHARLES REUSS, vice-president of the club is also president of the Cent­livre Brewery where our last meeting was held. We hope that the next meeting will be held at the Berghoif Brewery. 
Incidentally, the boys at school are having a dsuice on Dec 27, at the . Catholic Community Center and al­though it is being billed as a students' dance it is really being given in con­junction with the Alumni. 
HARRY G. HOGAN, LL.B., '04, president of the Dime Savings and Trust Co., has recently been ap­pointed chairman of the board of gov­ernors by Bishop Noll for the new Catholic Youth Organization of Fort Wayne. You probably know Harry so yon know what a dynamic sort of fellow he is and he is doing a very good job of it. 
LOUIS NIEZER, A.B., '29, is tak­ing a post graduate course in law at Indiana and expects to get his degree in three years and four summer schools. 
PAUL SAGSTETTER, E.E., '25, is now manager of the General Tire in Fort Wayne. Paul is not a Fort Wayne boy and only has been here about three years but he is making very good. 
Did you know that M. J. "BRUFF" CLEARY, '24, has been elected State Senator from this district? CLIFF WARD, Ph.B. Joum., '23, is star re­porter for the News and besides his regular work has been conducting "a column known as Abracadabra. suppose you could call him a column­ist. 
PAUL APP, B.C.S., '30, recently was married to Mary O'Brien. From what I hear he likes married life very well. 
If you want to use any of this information, please rearrange it so it is readable. The next time I will try to give you some information on all of the boys from Fort Wayne. 
THOMAS A. McKIERNAN 

LOS ANGELES Eeceived your little reminder yes­terday and am immediately going to 
press although you leave me very little time to get any dope together. Things were popping fast and fur­iously over the week-end of the South­ern Califomia-Notre Dame-game and plenty of out of town boys showed up. Among these first mention goes to Fathers O'HARA and GALLAGAN who lent considerable Notre Dame flavor to the week-end. Others in evidence were JOE NASH, JIM O'TOOLE, BILL "PLUMS" YORE, VINCE McNALLY, BERNIE AB­ROTT, DICK HALPIN, TOM LIEB, MANNIE VEZIE, and lest I forget, the Mighty midget of Notre Dame, Father JIMMY STACK was in evi­
dence. On Wednesday, Dec. 5, matters were ofiicially started rolling with the alumni luncheon, a well attended af­fair which owed its main success to the fact that no speeches were given although everyone had plenty to say. 
Friday night, proceeding Satur­day's game the club tossed off a swell smoker at the Biltmore Hotel. For entertainment we were honored by having with us such topnotchers as coaches, Howard Jones, ELME R LAYDEN, Bob Zuppke, JIMMIE PHELAN and TOM LIEB together with Christy Walsh, Grantland Rice, Richard Arlen, CHARLES BUTTER­WORTH, Vince Bamett, Andy De-vine and Jac k Mulhall. Father O'Hara dropped in and gave his usual sterling type of talk, encourag­ing the club to consider the possi­bilities of unified action in the direc­tion of a retreat. 
Saturday's game, despite "unusual w^eather" was every bit as much a success as could be hoped for. Our side of the stadium enjoyed itself thoroughly and as far as we were concerned Shakespeare and Mike Layden looked like All-American cinches. 
Saturday night's ball at the Bilt­more hotel was a complete success and pronounced eminently satisfac­tory by all in attendance. The music, entertainment and food were excel­lent and the speeches made by all the members of the team made a tre­mendous hit. 
Sunday's entertainment program for the team included a trip through the Fox studios, a luncheon at the beautiful Beverly Hills mountain es­tate of the E. L. Doheny's and a po­lice escorted trip through the heavy traffic to the ocean front and back through Los Angeles to the hotel where the boys barely had time to snack on a steak, thrown on a clean shirt, pack and dash to the station where they were cheered off by a mob of well wishers. 
Things have slowed down consider­ably since that time but I am now hot on the trail of the retreat move­ment and expect to get a very good response on our next attempt. I'm hoping that Father O'Hara's talk did these guys as much good as it should have done them but I'll be able to tell you much more about that at a later date. 
Two of our very best, most loyal alumni have come down with sickness and are for the time incapacitated. TOM McKEON has been iU for the past two months and tells me that the doc had ordered him to stay in bed for quite a stretch. Because of the fact that Tom is the daddy of our organization (class of 1898) we feel lost without him. Letters will find him home at 617 W. 41st St., Los Angeles, Calif. The other ailer is our old standby JIM KELLY who has been low with a high fever for a week or two but expects to be up and around in a few days, 
EMMETT McCABE, '29, has de­serted California bound for Erie, Pa. where he will Christmas with his family before leaving for Washing­ton, D. C. There he will join Notre Dame's corps of legislators, secre­taries, etc., as the secretary to John 
M. Costello, Congressman of Los An­geles' 15th district. Best of luck Mac, hope we haven't lost you. 
DOUG DALEY, Secretary. 

MILWAUKEE PAUL BRUST writes from Wash­ington where he is doing temporary Government work in the architectural field. JOHN CLAUDER has in­herited Paul's secretarial duties in Milwaukee, where, a letter from BILL REDDEN supplements, more Notre Dame activity is needed if the students from the Milwaukee terri­tory are to continue at N. D. 
NEW YORK CITY More than 500 New York alumni and their friends gathered in the Moonlit Terrace of the Biltmore hotel. New York City, after the Army game for the Annual Dinner Dance. 
The speaking program was turned over to Toastmaster JOSEPH BRAN­DY, famous Notre Dame quarterback, by President EDWARD A. FALLON. The following guests spoke: REV. JOHN A. MAC NAMARA, Coach ELMER F. LAYDEN, Commissioner Edward P. Mulrooney, John T. Mc-Govem, co-author of the Savage and McGovem report for the Carnegie Foundation, Gene Buck, theatrical producer, AMBROSE O'CONNELL, assistant to Postmaster James Farley, DAVE HAYES and JIMMY CROW­LEY. 
The program was broadcast over Station WOR at 9 p.m. WARREN S. 
FOGEL was Chairman of the Com­mittee in charge. 
Enough incentive for a jubilant 

gathering was obtained by watching 
Notre Dame beat the Anny in the 
Yankee Stadium that afternoon. 
Plans have been made for the 

Notre Dame alunmi, and their friends 
to sit in a reserved section for the 
Notre Dame-New York University 
basketball game to be played in the 
Madison Square Garden on Dec. 29. 
After the game there will be an informal gatthering of N. D. men in the K. of C. hotel which is just across the street from the Garden. 
The Metropolitan Club of Notre Dame are holding their Annual Christmas Formal in the Roosevelt hotel on Thursday, Dec. 27. 
Luncheons are still being held every Tuesday from 12 noon to 2 p.m. in Hurley's Restaurant, 144 Fulton Street, New York City. 
J. N. "DOC" GELSON 

OKLAHOMA Just to let you know that there is some Notre Dame activity out here where your motor oil and gasoline is pumped out of the ground, about 15 of the brethren met at the Mayo hotel in Tulsa last spring while I was at­tending a sales meeting in Oklahoma City and elected JOSEPH A. MOR­AN (1930-1932) president and the writer secretary of the Oklahoma Notre Dame Club. The day of the Southern California Notre Dame game, Saturday Dec. 8, quite a number of the Notare Dame men in Tulsa listened in on the game at the home of JOSEPH T. LANTRY (1899-1907) and in the evening the following attended the Notre Dame dinner at the Mayo hotel. 
RICHARD D. WHITE, 1907-1918, Franks Manufacturing Co., Tulsa. JOSEPH T. LANTRY, 1899-1907, Civil Engineer, Tulsa. JOHN F. MORAN, 1916-1920, Cad­do Oil Co., Tulsa. THOMAS P. SHEA, Lawyer, Tulsa. PAUL K. STICELBER, 1916-1917, Central States Power & Light. LYLE MORENCY, 1923-1927, Oil Producer. JOE. A. MORAN, 1930-1932, Law­yer. THOMAS D. LYONS, 1899-1904, District Judge. JOE MAGIRL, Geologist. 
W. C. DWYER, "1923," Wood Oil Co. PAUL A. RAHE, "1925," Gypsy OU Co. ROBERT J. SULLIVAN, 1929­1931, Carter Oil Co., Ponca City. 
LEO P. FAGAN, 1928-1932, Alum­inating Oil Co. 
M. J. KEIDY, 1926-1930, Sinclair 



on Co. 
JOHN F. CONWAY, 1918-1919, Attorney. 
N. F. SKELLEY, "1925." Wishing you a merry Christmas 
and Happy New Year, I am, NORB. F. SKELLEY. 

OREGON 
The December monthly get together 
was held at the Multnomah hotel, on 
the 8th, and we all enjoyed the 
broadcast of the Notre Dame-U. S. C. 

game. About 25 were in attendance. 
In a recent issue of the ALUMNUS, it was reported that NATT Mc-DOUGALL, Sr., was a happy grand­dad. We now wish to supplement this report by saying that NATT Mc-DOUGALL, Jr., '33, wants his friends to know that he is only the uncle of this little bundle of heaven, and that he's still a heart whole and fancy 
free bachelor. We had our first close up of Coach ELMER LAYDEN on the occasion of his visit in Porltand on Dec. 15. On this occasion he was the guest of honor at the annual banquet of the Columbia University football team, held in the Crystal room of the Ben­son hotel. Many Notre Dame men were in evidence at the Speakers' table, notably FRANK LONERGAN, '04, JAMES PHELAN, '17, GENE MURPHY, '16, and REV. JOSEPH BOYLE, '07, all of whom are noted for their artistry of after dinner speech making. It was a rare treat for we old-timers out here in the Northwest to meet Elmer, and we hope he comes again and often. 
Familiar faces seen at the Colum­bia football banquet: GEO. PHIL­BROOK, DOM CALLICRATE, ED and JOHN BARRETT, FRAN K COLLIER, NATT McDOUGALL, SR. and JR., BARNEY MacNAB, MOR­RIE CONWAY, JIM CULLIGAN, FRED CUNNINGHAM, HUGH L.A.­CEY, CHARLI E HIRSCHBUHL, HAROLD HARSTICK, NORB KAV­ANAUGH, FRAN K KIERNAN, TOM McMAHON, DUKE HODLER, ARNOLD PETERSCHMIDT, LE E SHANNON. Apologies are offered for any omissions. 
LEE SHANNON, C.E., '12, has joined the technical staff of the Gen­eral Petroleum Co. and will probably be able to spend more time at home now than when he was in highway construction work, in which line of endeavor he has played a prominent part for the last decade. 
MAURICE "CLIPPER" SMITH brought his famous Santa Clara foot­ball aggregation to Portland in Nov­ember, and tangled with GEN E MURPHY' S Columbia University team at the Multnomah Civic Stadi­imi. Gene's team was at its peak and Santa Clara was fortimate in going home with a narrow margin win. 
SAM "ROSY" DOLAN, C.E., '10, is a member of the PWA Engineering staff, engaged in bridge building on the Roosevelt highway. His present address is at North Bend, Oregon. We sure miss you at our meetings, "Rosy." 
Sorry to have missed HOWARD "CAP" EDWARDS when he passed through Portland this Fall, and if the son of a gun fails to let us know in advance of his next visit, we'll never buy another Studebaker truck. 
One of our oldest members went to his last call this Summer when GEORGE HOUCK, '88, trekked to his reward. George played on Notre Dame's first football team, and though he had been an invalid for some years, never lost interest in the affairs of Notre Dame. 
FELIX ISHERWOOD, '30, has been transferred to Shanghai, as special agent for the States Steam­ship Co., and at last reports is getting nifty with chop-sticks. 
ROLLIE SCHEFTER, '33, has a new job, having been recently elected to the business management of the Portland Baseball club, franchised in the Pacific Coast League. Rollie's father recently purchased the Port­land Club, and with new blood direct­ing its affairs, we are looking for a pennant in Portland this coming season. This is a tip for varsity base-ballers graduating in June. 
DR. WILLIAM A. SHEA, '02, was an appreciative guest at the N.D.­
U.S.C. broadcast reception. HAROLD HARSTICK, '25, was also among those present. 

GEO. PHILBROOK, famous foot­baller and track athlete of 1908-12 is located here in Portland again after an absence of several years. "Phil" is engaged in the insurance business and looks as big and husky as when he broke up Michigan's line attack in 1909. 
Marion McDougall, the charming daughter of Natt McDougall, Sr., '00, has added to her collection of tro­phies, the championship cup of the Womens' Western Open Golf Associa­tion. Marion also holds the Pacific Northwest Women's Amateur Cham­pionship, and we predict her con­quests of the national titles before long. It must be in the blood, for Natt, Sr., her father, was a world champion bicycle rider in the gay nineties. 
GENERAL, JOSEPH P. "PATSY" O'NEIL, Notre Dame '83, and West Point, '87, is very tactful in discuss­ing the Notre Dame-Army games. That is one he always wins. 
After being out of school for 24 years, and having come in contact with a good many phases of life, it is with a deep feeling of satisfaction that I find my best and truest friends are the ones made at or connected with Notre Dame. 
WM. C. SCHMIDT. 
• 
PEORIA 
BILL MOTSETT \vrites from the Peoria Mimicipal Sanitariimi, where he is doing a smart and quick job of checking a threatened illness. The Peoria boys have been faithful to their monthly dinner programs. Bill's brother, BOURKE, is now Rev. Bourke Motsett, having been ordained in the American College, Rome, Dec. 8th. 
PHILADEPHIA 
Racing to beat that dead-line is a scribe's chief worry (now you tell one!). Even more so than having nothing to say. But this isn't sup­posed to be the writer's column, is it? Our readers (if we don't flatter our­selves) don't pay us to bore them, we're forced to admit. But, here's a Happy New Year to you, "The Asso­ciation, and my fellow sufferers. May it be a truly prosperous one for them. 
And it may be, too, for even CLIFF PRODEHL, '32, is wearing that wel­come smile that betokens a pay envel­ope on Friday night from Dun and Bradstreet. Any local credit apprais­als you want Avill be furnished cheer­fully. May we soon see him as the local club's first school teacher! Did somebody say something about cred­it (s) ? HARRY STUHLDREHER, seen after a long time (this is sup­posed to be subtle), still looks like the young man who, ten years ago, came to Villanova to teach them what a football was. The recent banquet in his honor, commemorating his decade's hard work, was a fitting and deserved tribute. Here's to next year, Harry. MARTY BRILL wears a Dobie on next year's chances, after signing up for another trip with LaSalle's Explorers. Hail the local undefeated coach! Didn't see you, even as you said I wouldn't at New York, but a few people thought they did. Get out your local club directory, and youll find out who they were. And thinking of Directories, I hope all the Sects weren't taken so by sur­prise as your honored. When they tell how many of their names aren't in­cluded there, is my face red? But then the Philadelphia boys can take it, and there will be another Directory won't there (don't fail me, else all this raving in vain!) Jim? Our com­pliments on your job, and you need not apologize for not being in New York. 
Come to think of it, maybe a re­porter is supposed to dironicle meet­ings. If so, PREXY DESCH (you know, one never can give these old timers' numbers without fearing he's giving them away) makes our job easy. Next time you're here, you ^vill see how well trained he has us: 30 minute meetings. And then the fun begins. Final returns rolled out at our last on the now memorialized Army game ticket raffle: some 150 of the despised coins. By the way, Jim, somebody said the DEGENS were sporting a new car since that time. The only other point on the program was the already-advertised Christmas Formal. We'll let you in on the good news next time. 'The undersigned is going to suggest a plan, thereafter, to guarantee payment of National Association dues. (Doesn't that take the year's palm?). The locals are already planning for George's mighty midgets, when they come here in March to take Temple's scalp. Extend him our sincere wish to make their stay as pleasant as possible. Holding Northwestern to that one-point mar­gin last night promises great things later. 

Dreading with you that after-Christmas feeling, the Locals wish you a Christmas of the type you at Notre Dame can alone know. 
TOM MAGEE. 
RHODE ISLAND Just a few words to tell you that our R. L club certainly made a great week-end event of the Notre Dame Army game Saturday. We disposed of more than 400 tickets altogether and could have easily sold another 200 during the past week. In conjunction with the New Eng­land S.S. Co., and through the efforts of our loyal friend BILL RYAN, we conducted a trip by boat to N. Y. and had more than 285 rooters with us. We had an entire boat to ourselves, and we had a great time. Our N. E. governor, CHARLIE GRIMES left a day ahead and when we arrived in 
N. Y. Saturday morning he was there as the official welcoming committee and at the game in the afternoon none cheered louder or oftener than Charlie, who was in a front row seat in the upper stands accompanied by his mother and sisters. When the second touchdown took place, his hat went flying into the air and thus our governor really helped the team to victory with his moral and personal support. 
The R. I. club is now planning on entertaining the basketball team while they are in New England and more than 100 people have signified their intentions of going to the game New Year's Eve. 
JOHN BROWN, '31, has been ap­pointed to a position with the Gulf Refining Co., at East Providence. CLEM GRIMES is now ofiice man­ager for the Grimes Publishing Co., of Providence. JOHN STEELE of Newport planned to take his girl friend to the game Saturday but missed the boat at Providence and thus listened to the game by radio. VIN DOYLE of Pa\vtucket, ex '29, has recently entered the textile busi­ness although he still plays the violin as a hobby. At the game Saturday I met DINNY SHEA and JOE O'NEIL, '30, and they also were vnth­out much voice having yelled them­selves hoarse during the earlier hours of the afternoon. 
Thus -vnth the firm hope that Southern Cal will fall beneath the axe of the Irish, and with the inten­tion of having an afternoon of get-together for the club to hear the game on that day I will close with best regards to you, 
LEO R. McALOON. 
ROCHESTER Club activities have been rather slow the last few weeks but they promise to blossom forth \vith the usual mirth and merriment at Christ­mas time. That's one time of the year that attendance is never lacking. 
On the 20th of December we are having a stag party at the Cataract Brewery that ^vill give me a chance to gather a little more news. The annual Christmas dance comes along on the 27tth, to be held at the Saga­more hotel. Between the two affairs we ought to round up most of those that do and those that do not dance. 
As recorded in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, GERR Y SMITH, '26, joined the benedicts and we are still waiting for him to come home. Like a true newlywed Jerry sent me an invitation that I received after a lit­tle communication with the Postmast­er at Joplin, Missouri about a matter of three cents that had to be straight­ened out before the engraving could be shipped along. I suppose Gerry \vill take a lot of kidding anyway without adding that to it. 
BILL BELL, '25, was married August 4, at Holy Rosary Church, Rochester to Miss Dorothy Efing. He \vishes to correct the impression that he was married in Cleveland. Bill and his ^vife followed the football team a lot this fall and she's a real 
N. D. fan now. RAY DOWNS, '26, was his best man. Ray is still con­nected ^vith Forman's here in town. 
ERNIE HECHINGER, '32, who was with us for some time has re­turned to Peoria. We gave him a big send-off at the train that he won't forget. During the Thanksgiving holi­days, we had as guest, HER B WEHRLEN, '32, of Paterson, New Jersey, who is now teaching high school students in Jersey City. BILL QUEENAN, '33, is now in town con­nected -ivith the Aljo Club. JERRY BUSCH, '29, announces a daughter who has been named Paula. Standard Oil keeps Jerry pretty busy traveling around New York State. 
JOE GERAGHTY, "28, was mar­ried a short time ago but I am sorry to say I have forgotten the young lady's name. Joe is still up and at 'em in the brokerage circles. 
This covers about all the news at present, Jim. I promise to have a bundleful next month when yon go to press. 
FRANK NORTON. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
The Editor feels that this note ought really to belong in the excellent publication which Miss McCandless sends to St. Mary's alumnae. How­ever— 
The Board of Directors of the Club met Dec. 18 for luncheon at the Hotel LaSalle, now prominently identified with the Jones—Vitus pere and Fran­cis, the latter Secretary of the Club. You can imagine, then, the conflicting emotions of the dignified Board members to find that rather than refuse the inn's hospitality, a table had been set in the Ladies Lounge. Bernard VoU, first arrival, and a veteran of No Man's Land, proved to have several frightened ladies cornered in the inner sanctum of the lounge, evidently there before the genial hosts thought to erect a detour sign. 
But business of the Club prevailed, and the Annual Testimonial Foot­ball Dinner was evolved in rather definite form. No date is set as this is written. And the principals are somewhat in the nature of a sur­prise package for which you will have to watch your daily papers. It will probably be January 14-15-16 or 17. The usual place, the University Din­ing Halls. And of course Elmer Lay-den and his team will be in the spot­light. Nor is the address of the Presi­dent, Father O'Hara, in need of much supplementing for a raison cTetre. However, watch those papers, or keep an eye open for later sheets of this issue. 
ST. LOUIS This is to let you know that the Notre Dame Club is active in St. Louis. On Dec. 10, we had 35 members present at a meeting at GBIESEDI­ECK Bros. Brewery. BOB HELL­RUNG, our newly elected president, suggested having the Notre Dame Glee Club come here to sing in our new Municipal Auditorium some time in February. At the present time we are actively engaged in working out some plan to bring the Notre Dame Glee Club down for a benefit performance, by which we hope to obtain a scholarship for 
some worthy student in the St. Louis area. 
New officers for the present year besides Bob Hellrimg, are FRED SWITZEE, Vice President, CAR­ROLL PINKLEY, Treasurer, and myself, secretary. 
D. J. RIELLEY, Jr. 

TIFFIN 
Our local club although numbering only about 14 members, held a little session at the Shawhan Hotel here the day of the Southern Cal-N. D. game and we tuned in to the game which we naturally thought was a w^ow. Especially did we feel this way because of the showing Elmer Lay-den's brother made that day. The bunch around here is back of Elmer to a man and we know that he is going to add to his already brilliant showing by giving us another success­ful year in 1935. Watch that Ohio game next fall. It is a "natural" and the feeling is going to run high next November. I dare say that the Col­umbus stadium will be sold out far in advance of that particular game. We've already started the ballyhoo over the impending battle and we just dare not lose. 
Among the group that attended our little stag dinner on the eighth were two old grads from the clasas of 1911, PHIL FLECK and C. J. SCHMIDT. They got a big kick out of the game and were only sorry that we hadn't met before to listen in to some other games earlier in the season. ROSS LEAHY, '28 was in attendance too and wishes to be remembered to you. At present Ross is working for the state, doing board work for the high­way department. 
BILL DORE, '30, one of the city's promising attorneys is working hard at his law and is in partnership vnth his Uncle, Frank T. Dore of this city. Bill, as you know, after leaving his secretarial position with the State Board of Parole, was appointed by Gov. White as the attorney for HOLC here in Seneca county. Bill, like his brother JOHN, '24, is a rabid foot­ball fan and just can't bear the thought of an N. D. outfit coming out second. Both Dores are two of the staunchest supporters the old school ever had. 
CHARLIE PAHL, '30, was there to have a beer with us too. At pres­ent he is enjoing an excellent set-up here, being a partner in the largest and best architect firm in the city. Charlie is a comer, watch him. There were several others in our crowd but I dare not go any further into detail here, except that I might add that Tiffin at present boasts an old grad, HOWAR D WEIMERSKIRK, '26, who, as a travelling auditor for the General Motors Corp. is now over in 
The '^otre T)ame a4 lumnus 
Java, or the Philippines; it is hard to keep track of him. FRED J. WAGNER. 
TWIN CITIES I am writing you at the eleventh hour and hope this will reach you by the 20th. The Twin Citj' Notre Dame Club's Annual Christmas Ball will be held Dec. 26 at the Hotel Radisson in Min­neapolis. It is one of the largest social events of the Christmas season. At the present time it looks as though it will be a great success, both socially and financially. President GEN E O'BRIEN has appomted DONALD 

K. McINTOSH, '34, general chairman and through his committeemen Don has made arrangements for tvvo or­chestras, entertainment, and beautiful decorations. The men assisting with arrangements are JERRY CONWAY, TOM McMAHON, JOE SCHROBD­ER, LEE MOES, BOB SULLIVAN, DR. JOHN CULLIGAN, and ED FAHEY. Bemie Bierman, Minnesota football coach, is to be one of the honored guests. Just received a letter from GERRY McKAY, located in Madison, Wis., who says he is coming down for the dance. We also expect to have JOE O'HARA from Glencoe, Minnesota and DANNY COUGHLIN of Waseca, Minnesota with us on that evening. 
There will be election of officers in January and we \vill see that the names are sent to you at that time. 
ED 'MOOSE' KRAUSE, St. Mary's College of Winona, was in town last night with his Coaches All Star team when they met the famous Negro Globetrotters. "Moose " as usual played an outstanding game and held the much publicized giant Negro cen­ter to one basket. Ed, and EMMETT MURPHY, his assistant, have had a very successful season at St. Mary's Ed intends to be in Chicago during the Holidays. 
FRANK MAYE R who assisted JOE BOLAND when he was at St. Thomas College is now a line coach at Hamline University, St. Paul. Hamline was one of the outstanding teams in the Minnesota State confer­ence. 
We have tivo new members of the Club who have moved to Minneapolis just recently. They are TOM DUNN, who is working in the insurance line, and TOM GREENE, who is in the advertising department of the Inter­national Harvester Co. 
LOUIE REGAN and JACK DOYLE have recently become proud fathers of baby boys who look for all the world like a couple of good "Fighting Irish." 
JOHN PETRICK has just received a fine promotion from Northern States Power Company and is now January, 1935 
one of their branch managers. The boys had a stag for John the other night and gave him a big send off. 
BOB FOGARTY is at St Thomas College where he is teaching and at present he is very busy giving e.xam­inations. 
MARTY DOLAN is working for the Ford Co. in St. Paul and ARN­OLD KLIEN is associated with the Guek Brewing Co. 
I hope to be able to pick up some news at the Christmas Ball and will send it on to you for the next issue of the ALUMNTJS. 
You certainly did a iine job on the Alumnus Directory—Congratulations. 
JOHN D. YELLAND. 
• 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Just a few lines to let you know that ELMER LAYDEN paid Seattle a visit. 

He was here two full days, having arrived from the south after his tri­umphal victory over Southern Calif­ornia and in company of JIMMIE PHELAN, U. of W. football coach. The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington banqueted him at the Washington -Athletic Club in Seattle. A telegram of welcome was addressed to the writer from TOM WALKER, Butte, Montana (brother of Frank) welcoming Coach Layden and inviting him to visit Butte. 
The following evening Mr. Layden was principal speaker at the U. of W. annual football banquet. His ^vit and humor were sparkling. Coach Phelan made an impressive speech to his en­tire football squad. He was presented with a handsome watch by the de­parting senior members of the team. 
Mr. Layden has a keen eye that misses nothing, a firm jaw set for anything and is Irish. A Notre Dame coach needs all of these weapons to take on those stiff football schedules every fall. 
More power to you Elmer. More­over we expect to see you in Seattle at least once a year in the future. 
JOE SINNOTT. 
Why College? 

"Why go to college now? I would go to colleges now for exactly the same reasons I did go to college 27 years ago. Education is too funda­mental a thing to shift in its values over so short a period of time."— Dean R. B. House, University of North Carolina. 
Professors' Rate 

The average death rate for college presidents and professors is only 2.69 per thousand, as compared with 28.73 for aviators, 7.89 for lawyers and judges, 10.69 for doctors, and 10.33 for clergymen. 
BIRTHS 
Michel Clune Mooney, 8 lbs. 6 oz., arrived on Nov. 15. Now I have a 'two pair' family—2 girls 2 boys— Everyone fine. BILL MOONEY, '15. 
The U. S. PROSECUTOE, LEO HASSENAUERS, '20, received a baby girl from Santa Glaus on Christmas Eve, in Chicago. 
John Wack is the Yuletide addition to the PROFESSOR GEORGE WACKS, '23. 
Another attorney, MARC FIEHR­ER, assistant prosecutor in Hamilton, Ohio, became the father of Jacques Jean, the third in the family, last August. 
The JACK DOYLES, '28, have been enjoying Robert William since Sept. 29, Minneapolis. 
While the BERNARD LOEFF­LERS, 28, Indianapolis, receive a be­lated orchid for their daughter of last July. 
LOUIS REGAN and Mrs. Regan have gladdened the hearts of the stu­dent prospectors with an eight-pound boy, Michael, bom Nov. 8. 
The JOHN ARTHUR HALEYS, '26, have one more ticket to worry about, with the arrival of a boy on December 29. This is the third boy, and the three of them with a lovely little sister. 
Judith Ann is now, since Christ­mas Eve in fact, a member of the JOHN W. ANDERSON, JR., '31, family. 
Margaret Rose was bom to the RUDOLPH GOEPFRICHS, '26, in South Bend, on Nov. 19. 
MARRIAGES 
Which reminds me that the student contact department was accused of getting oif to a very early start last month when the Alumni Secretary acted as an usher at the wedding of GERRY SMITH in the Log Chapel. 
As the ALUMNUS always feels tempted to put it (to offset the so­ciety page of the press) JAMES HARVEY BAILEY, '20 became the groom of Ruth Jamieson Cohoon, Saturday, Dec. 1, in Elizabeth, N. J. Jim and Mrs. Bailey are at home at 610 Salem Ave., Elizabeth. 
One of those Spanish announce­ments (in which the groom does get an even break) brings word of the marriage of Senor ANDRES MAL­ATESTA BOZA, '23, and Senorita Maria Escribens Correa, in Lima, Peru, in November. 
The Log Chapel was the site of the marriage on Nov. 29 of Marion Beat­rice Birren and MICHAEL ADAM SIEGLER, '24. 
One of the few remaining members of the Class of '25 (in this particular iield) was removed by marriage on Thanksgiving Day when PAUL D. HOEFFLER, Buffalo, wed Wanda Therese Tyburska, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. JAY L. LEE, '12, was best man, and ED. J. BAKER, '24, Paul's brother-in-law, served as usher. 
DAN LAMONT, '27, was married Dec. 1st. in Evanston, 111., to Eliza­beth Esther Kiley, sister of ROGER KILEY, '23. 
Nov. 21 in Detroit, Mary Margaret Kelley was married to JOSEPH PETER DELLA MARIA, '27. 
FRANK CREADON, '28, was married to Mary Gubbins on Sept. 26 in St. Mary's Church, Riverside, 111. 
BOB McVETY, '29 and Katherine Whalen became the Bob McVetys in the Church of St. Joan of Arc in Jackson Heights, L. I., Oct. 13. 
Martha Marian Cangney, Toledo, became Mrs. WILLIAM JOSEPH KENNELLY, '30, in the Log Chapel on Nov. 29. Bill is Goodyear, Inc. in Fostoria, 0. 
EDWARD WILLIAM LEAN and Miss Hilda Raby had the pleasant experience on Thanksgiving Day of being married in their own newly furnished home in South Bend. 
Irene K. Haringer and RALPH J. CALETRI, 32, formerly of Mt. Pleas­ant, Pa., were married in the Log Chapel on Dec. 1. They will reside at 748 Lincolnway E., South Bend. 
JOSEPH GONCIARZ, '32, and Eosemarie Chuchro were married Sept. 29 in St. Helen's Church, Chi­cago. 
Henrietta LewinsM and GEORGE FANELLI, '33, were married No­vember 26 in the Log Chapel. 
Maxine Sayre, Elkhart, and MICH­AEL KOKEN, '33, were married in the Log Chapel on Dec. 26. 
ALFRED J. ARTZ, '33, Marquette, Mich., and Jean Hess, South Bend, were married in South Bend on Dec. 27. 
STEPHEN PETER BANAS, '34, present law student and coach, was married in the Log Chapel Dec. 26, to Dorothy Chitty, East Chicago, after snow-drifts had kept Father JOHN FARLEY pacing the Chapel floor from 9 till 12. 
CHARLES JASKWHICH, '32, and Mary Louise Hughes, Kenosha, Wis., were married in the Log Chapel on January 2. Chuck is athletic director at Holy Cross College, New Orleans. 
• 
ENGAGEMENTS 
JAMES D. ASH, '33, attending New York U., has become engaged to Bemice Rider, New York City. 

JOHN J. RYAN, '33, N. Y., who finished law at Fordham, is engaged to Jean Thompson, White Plains, with Spring set for the wedding. 
• 

DEATHS 
PATRICK K. MURPHY, '77, for 61 years a resident of South Bend, died at this home Dec. 15 after a three days illness of pneumonia. Mr. Murphy was associated with Louis Nickel in the wholesale grocery bus­iness for 25 years and more recently 
•sviththe Studebaker corporation. 
LT. COL. JOSEPH MARMON, 59 years of age, a student at Notre Dame in '96-'97, Commander of the 
U. S. Army Post on Governor's Isl­and, died December 4. Col. Marmon was married last January 21 to Pau­line Frederick, famous actress, who survives him. 
REV. JOSEPH M. TOTH, '11, died Dec. 15 in the rectory of Holy Trinity Church, East Chicago, Ind., of which he was pastor. Father Toth entered Notre Dame in 1903 for preparatory and college training. He was trained for the priesthood in Mt. St. Marjr's seminary, Ellonora, O., and ordained by the late Bishop Alerding. Father Toth was bom in Kasdon, Hungary, in 1889. His death is attributed to a heart ailment contracted in an auto­mobile accident two years ago. 
DWIGHT PAUL CUSICK, Ph. B., '12, LL.B., '15, died Dec. 18, accord­ing to a note received at the Univer­sity from MAECELLUS M. OCHE. Mr. Cusick lived in New Lexington, Ohio. 
JOHN DINNEN O'MARA, son of the late Richard J. and Ann Dinnen O'Mara, died after a brief illness No­vember 16, 1934. He was a student of Notre Dame for eight years, start­ing as a minim imder the guidance of Father Sorin. Mr. O'Mara was in the building business associated with John Griffiths & Son Co., Chicago. He was a nephew of the late VERY EE V. JOHN R. DINNEN of Lafayette, In­diana, and of DOCTOR JAMES M. DINNEN of Fort Wayne, Ind. He leaves a wife and a son John Dinnen O'Mara Jr., and a sister Mrs. T. D. Horrigan. 
The ALUMNUS extends sympathy to members who have lost near rela­tives—MATTHEW BARRON, '31, mother; REV. THOMAS IRVING, C. 

S. C, '04, mother; E. MURPHY, '33, mother; REV. EDWARD KELLER, C.S.C., mother (also mother-in-law of PROF. GEORGE WACK, '23); JOHN McNELLIS, '27, father; J. M. STEPHENSON, '10, father; WIL­LIAM A. DAUNT, '08, mother; DR. JOHN DELPH, '16, mother; Charles McCarthy, South Bend, who died re­cently, was the father-in-law of HARRY RICHWINE, '20, and WIL­LIAM J. ANDRES, '18, to whom sympathy is extended. 
PERSONALS 
Before 1880 
A lovely Christmas card from the 

HON. THOMAS F. GALLAGHERS 
of Fitchburg, Mass., brought pleasant 
memories of their visit here last sum­
mer. 
• 

1880-85 
The Editor attended the K. of C. initiation Dec. 20 in South Bend and had Ihe pleasure of seeing DR. J. B. BERTELING active again in attend­ance. 
The 31st Anniversary of the suc­cessful flight of the Wright brothers brought to many minds the famous experiments of DB. ALBERT ZAHM, many of them conducted in the lab­oratories of Notre Dame, which pro­vided a scientific guide to the first successful plane construction. 
1890-93 
REV. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, has moved his famous quar­ters from the old Community House between the lakes to the new Com­munity Infirmary, formerly St. Jo­seph's Novitiate, on the Northeast shores of St. Joseph's lake. The Editor hopes that in the moving of the priceless collection assembled in the brilliant years of Father Cav­anaugh's work, so many golden mem­ories will have stirred that the pages of the ALUMNUS will share in their expression during the coming months. 
One of the ALUMNUS' self-styled "cliptomaniacs" sends word of the esteem and success of County Judge CHARLES B. DECHANT, Lebanon, Ohio. 
• 

1894 
DR. FRANCIS J. POWERS is basking these days in the long de­served services of an assistant Uni­versity physician, Dr. James E. Mc-Meel. 
1895 
•^A^LLIAM S. WILKIN, Bay City, was among the privileged of the Middle West who made the Army-Notre Dame game. He writes, "Sorry there were not more N. D. men there. Where I sat most every one was rooting for the Army. How­ever, when N. D. came through with those wonderful passes they all joined in with us. . . ." 
1897 
REV. JOHN A. MAC NAMARA 
is back at St. Joseph's Sanitarium, 
Mt. Clemens, Mich., after a trip to 
the East, where he attended his 22nd 
N. D. - Army game, having seen them all from the beg^inning. 
1899 
One of the casualties of the new 
Directory is B. L. HOLLAND, genial 
Baltimorean (after a career in Ohio). 
Listed as "os '00" he is really the 
LEO HOLLAND of the '99 Law 
Class. From London, 0., at that time, 

he was one of the pitchers to famed 
PHIL "PEACHES" O'NEILL, the 
other pitcher being the great GIB­
SON, and a teammate to the present 

FATHER JOHN FARLEY. Mr. 
Holland is now chairman of the 
board of the Maryland Commercial 
Bankers, 316 W. Saratoga St., Balti­
more. • 
1900 
The Pat O'Dea incident listed last month under a letter from JUDGE JOHN EGGEMAN was echoed in the Providence, R. I., Bulletin of Dec. 4, when the same facts were referred to in a story about O'Dea based on an interview of the columnist with J. FRED POWERS, varsity track coach at Brown U., former all around champion of America, and one of the traditional heroes of Notre Dame. 
An interesting letter from the JUDGE follows: 
"Your recent card was a reminder that we Old-Timers should be in con­stant communication with each other through the columns of the ALUM­NUS. As we grow older, our attach­ment to alma mater becomes more blessed. Likewise, the memories of the fine boys who were in college in our time becomes more prized. When we meet face to face our enthusiasm is unbounded. 
"The week-end of the Notre Dame ­Northwestern game at Chicago was the occasion for a most enjoyable visit with the old-timers who had attended the University along in 1900 —ANGUS D. MCDONALD of San Francisco, ROBERT E. LYNCH of Green Bay, Wisconsin, FRANK H. McKEEVER, DANIEL J. O'CON­NOR, BYRON V. KANALEY, JO­SEPH J. SULLIVAN, and RED SALMON of Chicago, and a host of others who attended later, and while students won their laurels in athletic competition and now are a credit to Notre Dame. 
"Just recently I received a fine letter from J. FRED POWERS of Worcester, Massachusetts, who in his day was known as Notre Dame's Track Team. Again I experienced the delight of youth in recalling his great victories for alma mater. In fact I again lived those days in memory. 
"While our respective callings in life will not permit us to indulge in every whim, nevertheless there is no excuse for any of us not keeping a fairly close touch through the medium of the ALUMNUS. 
"Sometime ago you wrote me rela­tive to establishing an annual Old-Timers' Day at the University, the first meeting to be held in the Fall of 1935 after a football game, and the Old-Timers during their visit living on the campus. While it may have been my good fortune for some years past to have this experience by being in attendance at the annual Laymen's Retreat, still there is miss­ing that something that can only be supplied by having on the campus a goodly number of the boys who were in attendance during your college days. 
"I trust, James, that you will not forgret this Old-Timers' meeting, for it will aiford a vast degree of real pleasure." 

1904 HARRY G. HOGAN, Fort Wayne, is carrying on the best teachings and traditions of Notre Dame with his new appointment by His Excellencv, , BISHOP JOHN F. NOLL, as chair­man of the Catholic Youth Organiza­tion in Fort Wayne. Several other 
N. D. men were active in the estab­lishing of the chapter. 
1907 On the famous Niles road, about three miles North, a beautiful little Catholic Church and Rectory are Hearing completion. They comprise eloquent testimony to the efficient pastorate of the REV. WENDELL CORCORAN, C.S.C, in the rural parish of Christ the King. THOMAS HICKEY, N. D. contractor in South Bend, is the builder. 
1908 
Among the interested attendants and leaders in discussion at the Cath­olic Alumni Federation forum in Chicago on Dec. 13, when REV. 
January, 1935 The t^otre 'Dame cAlumnui 97 
WILLIAM A. BOLGER, C.S.C, gave the address of the evening, was MAXIMILIAN ST. GEORGE. 
• 

1909 
E. P. "TED" CARVILLE, now U. 

S. District Attorney at Reno, Nev., was the center of an interesting sub-reunion of the Class of 1909 on the campus Dec. 17. Stopping through on his way from the crime conference in Washington, the JV.LUMNUS staff engineered a hurried call to the available Niners — REV. RICHARD COLLENTINE, C.S.C, now head of the Little Seminary; JOHN SCHIND­LER, one of the leading insurance and real estate men in Mishawaka, and ED CLEARY, now a valued resident of the campus. One of the very few N. D. men in Nevada— MICHAEL DISKIN, former attorney general of the State, is the only other alumnus in the State — Notre Dame still enjoys through the brilliant legal careers of both men splendid repre­sentation. In New York, Mr. Carville enjoyed a luncheon with another dis­tinguished classmate, FRANK C. WALKER. 
• 1910 
From the midst of his Charities 

directing — so unlike the Woosterian 
calm of other Christmases (not pil­
grimages) — comes this note for the 
New Year: 
"I am ever a day or thirty late and what is more deplorable I have no class news to set up. 'RED' MIL­LER and 'BILLY' RYAN are the two old timers I see occasionally and with the tremendous pressure connected with Community Fund campaign work and budgeting procedure I have been woefully negligent in contacting the men of 1910. 
"This coming year being our twenty-fifth anniversary it behooves me to get on the wire immediately after the holidays and herewith, here­by, and now I so promise. 
"One gleeful tone stands out in my late lamented failure — there is an opportunity of extending the assur­ance of my best Christmas greetings to you and yours. I am wishing health and happiness and choicest Christmas blessings. 
M. L. MORIARTY. 

• 1911 
A separate story in this issue (I hope) will carry details of another of the many fine activities of FRED 
L. STEERS. The Editor's face still gets red when the memory of the Northwestern game recurs. Fred had taken us out and on the way back introduced us to a Bishop Armstrong and expressed his regret that Arch­bishop Hanna hadn't continued on to join ns. Imagine our surprise — for no reason at all, except a paucity of Catholic Armstrongs — to find that it really was. 
1912 
A note from DON HAMILTON, famous quarterback who is going to enjoy thoroughly the Notre Dame-Ohio State game in his home town next fall, ^vrites to urge MORRIE STARRETT to bring up to date his annual article on the N. D. coaches in the field. The Athletic Publicity Director, also sport ed for this pub­lication, states that with a chart of the leading N. D. teams in this issue. 
• 1913 
PAUL R. BYRNE, the soundless motor of the University Library, was in Syracuse for the Holidays. 
REV. J. ALLAN HEISER, C.S.C, who suffered a serious infection while serving as Chaplain at Camp Knox, is back on his feet again, but will return to Notre Dame at the be­ginning of the next semester. 
• 1914 
Notre Dame is further indebted to 

M. E. WALTER, of the Houston Chr07iicle. The rotogravure section on Columbus Day carried two full pages of the famous Gregorian murals in the main corridor of the .Administration Building at Notre Dame, depicting the life of Columbus. The Christmas rotogravure section contained two religious pictures from the great religious art collection of the University Library, "The Annun­ciation," from the Florentine School, and the magnificent "Adoration of the Shepherds" by Murillo. 
• 1916 
PRESIDENT TIM GALVIN was the principal speaker, in his capacity as Supreme Director, at the Notre Dame Council's initiation banquet on Dec. 20. 
The book reviews carry an inter­esting elaboration of the successful work of RAY HUMPHREYS, chief investigator of the District Attor­ney's office in Denver. 
• 

1917 
I received your card, notifying me that the dead line on news items con? coming the Class of '17 for the next issue of the ALUMNI paper is Dec­ember 20, but I must confess I am falling down pretty much again, as I don't seem to have any information of much importance to give you. 
I might state that ELMER C. TOBIN is getting around nicely again after being laid up by some trouble with his leg. I met him just recently and he stated that he ex­pected to be able to resume bowling, his favorite winter sport, after the first of the year. 
I had a letter from PHIL GOOLEY stating that he noticed in the recent Alumni Directory that BILL EGAN 
is listed as dead, and he would appre­
ciate any information I conld give 
him as to when and how he died. Un­
fortunately, however, I didn't even 
know Bill was dead, and the news 
was most imwelcome. I would sug­
gest that if you know anything about 
Bill's death you write to Phil and 
tell him about it. I would also appre­
ciate any information yon have on 
this matter. 
(Ed. The Alunmi OfiSce files have 

the card of WILUAM JOSEPH 
EGAN, M.E., '17, in the Deceased 
file with the notation, "Killed in Ac­
tion." His name is also on the 
Church's Memorial Door. Details 
from anyone acquainted with them 
will be appreciated for this column.) 
I don't run into many of the boys 

from our class, so I am not able to 
keep you informed on activities as I 
would like to. However, maybe one 
of these days I will get around to 
\vriting different fellows in an effort 
to pick up news items. 
Best wishes for a very Merry Christmas and an exceedingly Happy New Year. 
E. J. McOSKER. 

• 1919 
NORBERT BAGLIN was a visitor on the campus Thanksgiving Day when he served as best man for GERRY SMITH, '26, who was marr­ied in the Log Chapel. 
• 1920 
VINCE FAG-A.N is the architect of extensive remodeling that is giving the South Bend Elk's Temple one of the finest and most modem bars in this area. 
HARRY RICHWINE is conclud­ing a very active term as assistant prosecutor in St. Joseph County. Prosecutor JOHN RAAB, '18, has been seriously ill for several months, and the burden of the ofiice has fallen into Harry's hands, to be very ably handled. 
DILLON PATTERSON served as the efficient and successful chairman of the St. Joseph Valley Club Smo­ker, Nov. 27. 
• 1922 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN was in­jured in an automobile accident re­cently near Camden, N. J. while motoring from New York to Washing­ton. J. P. is now at his home in JanesviUe, Wis., and reports indicate that he is improving but will be con­fined for some time yet. Send the old warrior a few words of en­couragement for he will be glad to receive them. 
The Department of Justice was just a so-so organization until lately when things began to happen. JOE FARLEY is now a part of the organization and if he had no hand in recent doings, it is safe to wager that Joe will be a valuable man to Messrs. Hoover & Purvis in the future. 
Not so long ago we exacted a half promise from the genial J.A.CK HIG­GINS that he would furnish this column with some newsy items about some of the boys we have not men­tioned lately due to utter absence of news. In the old days at N.D. there were held boxing bouts for the bene­fit of the Bengal missions. The pro­motors—all able men would draw up a boxing card and then ad\-iEe you that you were going to box at the festival and also that they had select­ed your opponent, so really all you had to do was fight, which after all was very simple compared with their own laborious work of selecting the fighters. Learning our lesson we thereupon serve notice on Jack Hig­gins that he should be heard from be­fore the next issue. 
Let us give the professors a 'tum­ble' this month. PAT MANION is still at Notre Dame . . . and how. GERALD BRUB.4.KER is also teach­ing at the old school, but unlike Pat the lawyer, Brubaker is an architect. KARL ARNDT is on the faculty of the University of Nebraska. AARON HUEGENARD is a member of the law faculty at N.D. If we have missed anybody please write and tell us about it. 
JIM WHEELER late of Kalama­zoo is now a citizen of Milwaukee. He is sales manager of the Paper Makers Chemical Corp., their Indus­trial Chemical Dept. 
Now that Upton Sinclair and USC have been disposed of we may expect to hear from the City of Angels which harbors JUDGE AL SCOTT, GENE KENNEDY the banker, GENE HEIDELMAN the Oil Man, and LEO McCARTY the prospector. Perhaps we better not get them started for Los Angeles men are hard to stop—speaking generally—Gents. 
JOE REICHERT formerly sta­tioned at the Edgewood Arsenal is now in Niagara Falls. Joe's chief concern is Chemistry. 
Those who visit South Bend, Ind., occasianally should not forget that GENE SMOGER is more than glad to have a visit with '22 men. It is true that most of us in our anxiety to get out to the Campus forget about our classmates in South Bend, and they are many. 
It has been so long since we have heard from some of the boys, we are beginning to suspect they are in jail. Write and tell us you are not. 
GERRY "KID" ASHE. 
• 1923 
I have just heard that JOHN FLYNN has been made Second 

The T<[otTe 'Dame cAlumnus 
Lieutenant of the famous Black 
Horse Troop of the 107th Cavalry in 
Cleveland. This Black Horse Troop 
is internationally known and John 
has received this honor after seven 
years service -(vith them. John is 
located in Cleveland practicing law 
and tells me that he has had his 
biggest year since getting out of 
school. 
I talked to FRED JOYCE who did 
such a marvelous job of taking care 
of the Notre Dame team at the Lake 
Shore Hotel in Cleveland of which he 
is Manager. Fred reports a baby 
girl was bom October 23rd. The 
Joyces now have tivo girls and a boy. 
Those who have read the World Telegram this fall have undoubtedly seen the fine job that FR.A.NCIS WALLACE has done in writing of the Notre Dame team this season. The new regime under ELMER LAY­DEN has been one of considerable discussion as everyone knows and Francis Wallace did a first class job of telling the story of the fine prog­ress which was made week by week by Elmer Layden and his assistants this last season. 
New Year's Greetings to the Class of '23. PAUL CASTNER. 
• 
1924 
JAMES P. H.AYES, nominal Class Secretary, has made his New Year's Resolution about this column. . And in this center of Faith, we anticipate a splendid year for '24. 
Not that Jim hasn't been active— he handled the publicity for the Cath­olic Boys Brigade dinner Dec. 4 in New York at which Rev. JOHN O'Hara was one of the medalists. And Fifth Avenue has survived the de­pression largely through Jim's pen­manship (or typewritership). 
CLIFF NOONAN has launched a housing project in Hammond with a model house there—his design—open to the public. The FHA program will possibly include a community of similiar structures. Cliff is in the upper brackets of the famed Graham, Anderson, Probst & White, whose campus monument at present is the attractive College of Commerce. 
1925 
JOHN W. SCALLAN, the For­getting Man, submits his usual bum­per crop of news, which leaves the Editor only the follo\ving: 
MR. and MRS. WILLIAM HOW­ARD BENIT2 spent Thanksgiving with PROFESSOR and MRS. W. L. BENITZ, combining a holiday and honeymoon. 
TOM COMAN is stiU the Jimmy Durante of the Detroit noses-for­news, contributing his talents to the Associated Press bureau there. 
January, 1935 
A letter from HARRY McGUIRE brings news that Outdoor Life, which Harry edited so interestingly from Mt. Morris, 111., these several years, has been sold, and Harry, is now a farmer-literate on his estate. Squi­reen, Mt. Morris. 
PAUL ROMWEBER shows up every once in a while on the campus, always willing to part with some of the Batesville furniture if Father Steiner insists. 
GEORGE SHEEHE is now a South Bender, living on Ironwood Drive, but stays away from the cam­pus even more than when he was in school. 
Saw the old team of JOHN SNA­KARD and JOE SHELLEY at the pre-Northwestem dinner in Chicago. From the eyes of one who has picked up 50 lbs. since June, '25, those birds looked like a 10-year throw-back, not a wrinkle—either weight or worry. HANK WURZER was at the same party, as was big CHAR­LEY STANHOPE. 
The Satevepost has been carrying news of HARRY STUHLDREHER. 
NORB SKELLY is the most re­liable correspondent the Ed has in the Southwest-^OE MENGER hav­ing diverted some of his erstwhile faithful scissors-and-glue work to the Mengers' Southern Messenger. 
ELMER L.AYDEN visits the cam­pus occasionally. BILL CERNEY is another familiar pair of dimples on the home front. 
LEO "DUTCH" REIDER has finally lost his sales resistance and %vill join most of us sometime soon in married life. 
AL FELLNER, Belleville, 111., is busy handling the JOE BOLAND— MIKE L.A.YDEN visit there for a parish and school banquet. 
WALTER METZGER, \vith his dad and BERT, was on hand for the pre-Northwestem wake at the University Club. 
PAUL HOEFFLER broke down after nine years,- as the Marriages this month show. 
RUSS ARNDT, coaching Misha­waka's high school football, and GEORGE KOCH, teaching at Riley High, South Bend, keep familiar names bobbing up in the local educa­tional field—^not to mention the cam­pus, with TOM BARRY heading the propaganda from the publicity office. 
• 
1926 
DR. GERALD WELDON HAYES, from whom (and Mrs. Hayes) a lovely Christmas card was received, has nevertheless been married long enough to get the hell back on this job of being the best Class Secretary the Class ever had. 

1927 
A note on the Editorial desk from ED DE CLERCQ: Sorry 1 missed you today . . .a few notes . . . 
Had a very nice visit with TOM 
McKIERNAN in Ft. Wayne a few 
weeks ago, and found him in good 
spirits and to all appearances doing 
well in the business world. He said 
he had seen JIM MAC NEILE a few 
days before. 
ERMIN REICHBRT paid me a 
visit last summer which certainly was 
welcome. He and JIM QUALLEY 
are two of a kind—both in the hotel 
business and doing well. 
Was sure glad of having the oppor­
tunity to see JOE BOLAND again. 
According to Joe he saw VINCE 
McNALLY, BER N I E ABROTT, 
BOB SHIELDS, and others on the 
coast, and they sounded like the same 
fellows they were while at school. 
Certainly think the hats of the mem­
bers of the Class of '27 should be off 
to Joe, who did such a fine job this 
year in helping ELMER LAYDEN 
bring back a typical Notre Dame 
team. He has the hearty congratula­
tions of the entire Class of '27. 
Saw GENE BRENNAN in passing 
only in the Loop the other day. 
Naturally, the most that can be said 
of him is that he looked healthy. 
I frequently see JOHN GEARY, who is doing all right for himself and family in the oil business. 
MICHAEL McDERMOTT was in Chicago this summer with his mother, and he's a chip off the old block in my opinion. 
ED DE CLERCQ. 
The Editor received a clipping from Des Moines, from HAROLD KLEIN which showed what the foot-hall genius of HARRY O'BOYLE is doing in Iowa. Harry's team, Des Moines Catholic Academy, won the Iowa Catholic high school champion­ship by defeating St. Ambrose, 7-6. Harold says that in addition to this concreate reward of effort, Harry has brought a new and fine football spirit back to Des Moines and is very popu­lar with the whole city. 
An interesting card from 66 Court St., Brooklyn, bears the announce­ment of the formation of a partner­ship for the general practice of law at that address of Josephine M. Cain and JOHN E. GRUNING. 
1928 
LOUIS BUCKLEY, genial Secre­tary of the Class, has been dividing his holiday between Class notes, economic conventions in Chicago, and a bad cold, complicated by the work of the treasurer of the St. Joe Valley Club in trying to write off or collect student loans before '35 dawned. The notes: 
JOHN C. WALSH wrote from 235 Eighth St., N.E., Massillon, 0., where he is a foreman in the Republic Steel Go., giving the low-down on labor re­lations in the steel industry. JOHN WALTZ, '29, and BILL, '32, were at the Pitt game. PETE STBEB, '32, is working for Cummins Storage in Canton. TOM LEE, "29 (Ohio State '33) is practicing law in Canton, JOHN DORAN, '33, Akron, is help­ing his Dad keep the cigar stores in cigars. According to a note from BOB HAMILTON, JIM CONMEY is married and living in Brooklyn. Bob was a candidate for the Assembly in 
N. y. Bob is still playing basketball, having captained the team which last year won the Eastern Athletic Club championship. (Ed. Note: Bob also scouted N. Y. U. for Coach George Keogan this year.) JOE LANGTON, Peoria, has been in South Bend quite a bit lately as auditor for the Phillips 66 Oil Go. 
ART GLEASON, his wife and three children, visited in South Bend from Akron, where Art is with the Goodrich Rubber Co. 
JOHN LARSON writes that he has been working after a long period of unemployment. His address is 27 
N. Wadsworth St., Geneva, N. Y. 
1929 
FRANK HAVELICK is with the China National Aviation Corp., 51 Canton Road, Shanghai, China. 
Which reminds the Ed. that ALLAN JOHNSON, '28, is back in Niles, Mich., after three years in Shanghai, with the National City Bank of N. Y. there. 
JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, the greatest guerilla class notist on our present staff, was caught in a snow­drift at Logansport, on his way to conduct a case in the Federal Court in South Bend come last Michaelmas. That newspaper dispatch has never been supplemented by the solution. But possibly from the State House \viU come for next issue one of those sporadic volleys that are well worth the wait. 
• 
1930 
Our class was well represented at the Army game and from what in­formation I have been able to gather PAT GOGGIN of Areola, Illinois traveled the most miles to get there. TOM MONAHAN, '31 accompanied Pat on his week-end drive. Some of the others who were there were TOM MURPHY, JOE ABBOTT, TOM LANTRY, DINNY SHEA, TIM O'ROURKE, TOM BRADLEY, BO RICH.ARDS, POP THORNTON, HARRY SYLVESTER, DAN SUL­LIVAN, JACK CASSIDY. GENE KENNEDY, DAN BARTON, WAR­REN FOGEL, FRANK DUNN, BUGKY O'CONNOR (who will in­terne in New York after graduating from Yale this June), LARRY CRONIN, CHICK O'MALLEY, LEON ZABRISKIE, TOM CUNN­INGHAM of the Internal Revenue Department and probably many others. TIM TOOMEY promised to make a report on everyone and every­thing that happened, but it looks like I will have to get some one to shadow Tim in order to find out what happen­ed to him. 
HOWIE SMITH cornered TOM CONLEY shortly after the game and it was hours before their secret sess­ion broke up. Howie is in the same boat that his old Mt, Vernon High teammate, FRANK CARIDEO, is in. It seems that Mamaroneck High only won one game this fall despite Howie's hard work and great strategy. 
ED HALLORAN graduated from the University of Illinois Law school last spring. I understand ATTOR­NEY KEGOWICZ is keeping things moving in Chicago these days. His old pal CON CAREY was also at the -Army game. Con has put on a little weight and his law practice is keep­ing him very busy. 
ED CONLEY and his brother BILL, '23 are both working for the Firestone Tire and Rubber Co., Baum Blvd., Pgh. Ed was wondering what has happened to JIM BURKE in the last few years. 
We have not had any news from the New England district for some time. I ^vish JIM SKAHAN, PAT HASTINGS, DON SULLIV-A.N, JIM BRESNAHAN, and some of the others in that section would start to get organized for the re-union in June. 
Best •ivishes to you and your staff for a very merry and happy Christ­mas and lots of success for the New Year. 
BERNIE CONROY. 
• 
1931 
An interesting letter comes from GEORGE MATTINGLY SPALD­ING, who leaves February 15 for Sacred Heart Novitiate, Old Point Comfort, Va., to join the Xaverian Brothers. Typically Georgian is his announcement: "The University lost a poor waiter, Bardstown an un­employed citizen, so what the hell! 
R. I. P." George did insist that he would like to hear from the fellows who owe him letters before he takes the long step. 
In the same unimpeachable direc­tion, in fact at the other end of the road, is BOURKE MOTSETT, who was ordained in Rome on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, after studies at the American College there. 
Another McMURRAY is apparent­ly nearing the Notre Dame Avenue vista, if information requested by JOHN JE. for a brother, satisfies the demand. 

• 1932 
The Class of 1932 extends its con­gratulations to Elmer Layden upon the successful completion of his first year as Head Coach of the football team of Notre Dame. 
Approximately eighty thousand of the volunteer alumni witnessed the Army game and imbibed freely of the victor's cup. Among those present was GENE CONNELLY, our class president. Gene is now working for the American Canning Company and has proven himself to be a real poli­tician by gaining for himself a prom­inent position on the county commit­tee of the Democratic party of Queens County, New York. Not to be outdone by his room-mate Con­nelly, Hank Donalty has achieved fame in other fields, to wit, he is the father of a baby girl, who, in follow­ing in her father's footsteps, has al­ready strayed from the straight and narrow path of the teetotaller. 
In a spirited debate at the Penn Grill the night before the Army game MRS. WILLIAM HARRINGTON, nee Sue Borden of South Bend, claimed that Carteret, her present home, and Utica, the home of Hank Donalty, were far ahead of the metropolis of New York. To sub­stantiate her argument she offered in evidence her son and Hank's daughter. Maybe she's right. 
PAUL KEMPTER, out in Iowa, informs me that he is also married and has been admitted to the Iowa bar. He further tells me that his old room-mate, TOM NELSON, is also practicing the noble profession of the law. 
Here in New York, WILLIE WEIR and myself, among others, are anx­iously awaiting the result of the recent October bar examination. 
Recently, I ran into DON SULLI­VAN who is working for an insur­ance company in New York and he told me that SAL BONTEMPO has a very good position in Newark. WILLIE FITZGERALD is working for the lily Paper Cup Company on 42nd Street. A few blocks west of Willie's oflSce, in the Bryant Park BuUding, we find FEED SNITE, FLORENCE McCAETHY and GENE CALHOUN, who run the Local Loan Corporation. DEEW SCHIEBLER is now working for the Superintendent of Insurance. His pal, JIMMY WAED, is employed by the postal Telegraph Company, (not as a messenger boy) as is JACK FINNERAN of the Class of '33. JOHN LEDDY, '31 is practicmg law at 521 Fifth Avenue. 
In Chicago, some of our Notre Dame lawyers are HACK WILSON, JIM O'SHAUGHNESSY, WALT KIOLBASSA, BILL KIRBY, LEO SCHIAVONE, GEOEGE HIGGINS, and others. 
As far as I know, ANDY McGUAN and IKE TEEEY are still chasing cows and Dillinger bandits oif Main Street in Baraboo. 
JACK EUDD, BILL DAEROW and JOE GEOGAN are studying Law in New York. FRANK MADDEN of the Sunshine City Maddens, philo­sophizing on life confided in me and told me that recently he has become very serious minded, but if I were NORM BOWES of Kansas City, Mo., I would say "you gotta show me." Norm Bowes came up from George­town Law School and stayed at my house over the Army week-end. I was informed by him that our old cheer leader, JOE KENNEDY was the most seriously injured at the Army Game because he could not keep away from a bottle—which was thrown, probably by a Fordham man. Sorry to hear it Joe. 
BADEN POWELL is working in New York, as is LOOTS GADOY. BILL CORR is working in the same building with me. LEO MCLAUGH­LIN'S father has made it harder for Leo to follow in his footsteps by reason of the fact that he was elected Supreme Court Judge in the last election. BILL SLATER is working in his father's plant in HoUis. JOHN MATOUSEK is working in Cleveland and ARNOLD WEINER is one of Father Murray's sociology experts. TOM MAGEE and PHIL CLARK are also sociologists in Philadelphia. 
We missed JIMMY O'Connor and his sister at the Penn Grill the night before the Army Game. BUD DYN­lEWICZ and ED MELCHIONE are running around with the OELRICHS, GEDDES, MATHEWS and O'TOOL­ES in Chicago. 
I am sure the whole Class will join with me in extending our heart-felt sympathy to WILLIE WILLIGAN on the recent death of his father. 
On December 29th, there will be a basket-ball game between Notre Dame and New York University at Madison Square Garden, and ye scribe is looking forward to seeing all his old friends and class mates doing. 
The Class of 1932 extends the season's greetings to the University of Notre Dame. 
There are only a few days left \mtil Christmas, so all of you mail early and let me know what you are daing. 
P. S. Over the army week-end I also saw in New York, ED O'MALL­EY of Kankakee, WALTER BUCK­LEY and FRANK MUENANE of Waterbury and MARSHALL Mc AVENEY. 
HEEB GIORGIO 
JOHN H. MURPHY is a perma­nent member of the welfare depart­ment of the City of Boston. He made the Army Game, taking his Dad along for the elder Murphy's first game. The trip was hurried but word was picked up that GIL AUGUSTINE was principal of an FEEA night school, and that TONY GIUFFRE is also with the FERA. Among friends seen were JOHNNY BROWN, '31, Central Falls, and MARIO NARD­ONE, Westerly, R. I. 
ERNIE HECHINGER is back in Peoria, \iith the Peoria Builders Supply Co. 
VIRGILIUS PHILLIPS, who put out some nice drama across the ex­perienced footlights of Washington Hall, produced a prize-^vinning dra­matic organization in Churubusco, Ind., where Virge is coaching and teaching the holding up of mirrors to nature. 
FRANK McCLAIN reports to the College of Commerce that he is hooked up pleasantly ^vith the Trave­lers Ins. Co. Frank is located at 47 Foster St., Red Bank, N. J. He is beginning with a training course in the intricacies of modem insurance. 
The department of journalism, whose graduates these recent moons of meagemess have shared in full the nation's depression, scored a nice one with the mutual acquisition of the Daytona Beach Sun Record and ART HIMBERT, former Rock Island, HI., resident. The Sun Record is one of the properties of R. H. Gore, former Governor of Porto Rico, and father of BOB GORE, '31. 
1933 
ED SUECH, Boy Guidance 1932­33, coached the Cathedral High School football team to the football cham­pionship of the Head of the Lakes Conference, says a letter from the student manager of the Christian Brothers fine institution in Duluth. It was Cathedral High's first undis­puted claim to the title since 1922, when the present coach played quar­ter-back, JOE BENDA played end, and TED TWOMEY was a substi­tute. 
JOHN GALLA has moved to Buff­alo, where he is -with the active Cath­olic Charities there. John is living at the Ford Hotel in Buffalo. 
Moreau Seminary has claimed two members of the Class, WILLIAM B. FORD and LLOYD TESKE. 
The ALUMNUS was pleased to re­ceive word that HENEY CLUVER received his M.S. in Electrical Engin­neering from Columbia University last June. Henry is living at 161 W. 100th St., N. Y. C. 
Harvard's Graduate School of Business Administration is graced this year by C. P. ENTRUP, W. F. JOHNSON, G. H. EOHES and L. V. SMITH of the Class of '33, according to its assistant dean. 

• 

1934 
The same source as above reveals 

J. L. RUPPEL taking Business Ad­ministration at Harvard. 
RALPH ELSE, 278 Voorhees Ave., Buifalo, writes that he is with the Worthington Pump of Buifalo, a con­cern which boasts several N. D. alumni. Ralph expresses himself as both delighted and surprised to have found so soon a job which is remotely connected with his field, his present job actually being right down the proverbial alley for a M. E. 
AL WEIMER has gone on in ad­vanced work in N. Y. U., living at 191 E. 76th St., Apt. 11. 
ANDY AUTH is flirtmg with a Junior Agriculture Economist job in Washington, making his advances from 405 Sixth St., S.W. 
HAROLD NOONAN seems set for Boston College law school. CHARLES MUELLER \vill be a neighbor, tak­ing Master's work in E.E. at M. I. T. living in the Graduate House. 
EDMUND FITZMAURICE is in Hartford, Conn., ^^'ith the Pratt-Whitney Co. 
CLYDE LEWIS is even farther from home this year, taking Grad Law at Harvard, living at 44 Church St., Cambridge. 
JAMES W. BAKER and CHAS. D. CASHMAN, mining engineers, have responsible positions TOth large gold mines in Ontario. 
The ALUMNUS regrets to report that JO E VASCHAK suifered a long illness following graduation, but is equally pleased that Joe seems to be coming along o. k. now. 
One of the things that can now be told about the success of the football season just closed is that M. ROB­ERT CAHILL, another of those Dix­on alumni, acted as an important part of the Layden brain trust in his ca­pacity as confidential secretary. The recent diagram of the new executive offices of the White House showing "crank-catcher" Seaman or somebody like that would have just about fit the Coaches office in the Main Build­ing, and Cahill. With HERB JONES, one of the more patriarchal Dixon alumni, operating the movies that the scouts brought back, and Cahill hand­ling correspondence, Layden and his coaching staff had little to do but make speeches and look worried. 
RALPH ROGERS, '34 Boy Guid­ance, writes that he is now resident director of the Catholic Big Brothers Home, 1600 Esplanade, Redondo Beach, Calif. 

PERRy PRAISES SPIRIT 
The ALUMNUS points with pride to the excellent write-up by Lawrence Perry which followed the Navy de­feat. It is so typical of a large group of friends of Notre Dame not usually visioned when our "synthetic alumni" are discussed, that the artcile is re­printed. 
"The stars still pause in their courses and comets cease to strike when Notre Dame loses a football game—as on Saturday she lost to a fast, versatile and powerful Navy eleven. 
"We have yet to lose our prepos­session of the Irish as an invincible corps whose victories are taken as a matter of course even before they are won. Notre Dame defeats still move us as most human beings living ordered lives are moved when the order changes. 
"And this — a very remarkable thing it is, too—may be said of Notre Dame, when she occupied the throne there were no iconoclasts who wanted to see her removed. She was one champion whom the public was con­tent to have remain so. Hundreds of 
McCulIough Distinguished 

Henry M. McGuUough, '20, Daven­port, Iowa, is chief reviewer of all loans in the State of Wisconsin for the Federal Housing Administration, with headquarters in Milwaukee. 
Henry was one of eight men from Iowa who qualified for the examina­tions out of 300 who applied. After a course in Washington ^vith men from all over the United States, Hen­ry passed the final examinations for Chief Reviewer and was appointed to the Wisconsin post. 


 OF NOTRE DAME 

thousands came to her games each season, not to see her lose but to see her win. This was a tribute of signal character which we believe to be unique in sport. And for this the underlying character of Notre Dame elevens, their clean and expert play, their absence of swank and swagger, their imvarying good humor, their modesty in greatness were respon­sible. 
"So now, in the defeats sustained since Enute Rockne plunged out of the heavens to his death, you have heard nothing but regrets. 
"Personally, we do not think they have been warranted and we do not feel that Father O'Hara, Notre Dame's new president, thinks so eith­er. Absolute supremacy in football, or in any phase of human life, can­not be enduring, and wisely ordered is this fact. A wise old pundit has said that it is infinitely easier to get to the top than to remain there in­definitely. 
"Notre Dame football now and in the future will always remain in the major category. Irish teams will al­ways be feared, always respected. Victory over a South Bend outfit will ever add prestige to the victor and defeat by a Notre Dame eleven will not detract from any team's prestige. There will be season to come when Notre Dame teams will go unbeaten; there will be more seasons probably —as with all other college teams— when one or more defeats will mar the record. Like this season, for example. 
"In other words from a position of supremacy alone, aloof,- the Irish will take their honored place in the thin rank of gridiron leaders whose play, win or lose, is invariably stamped with the indefinable hallmark of class. It is a far more satisfactory, far more comfortable place to occupy than the first. Emerging into the sun from a lowly plane, Notre Dame needed what she so gloriously won. But now she needs it no more. She is placed athletically and academic­ally—Father O'Hara would like the order reversed. At any rate, Notre Dame belongs, and the results of gridiron play, whether victory or de­feat, do not matter greatly if at all." 
Alarm, not for the article, but for the recurrence of an attitude that was supposedly buried in the ashes of fiery crosses, greeted expressions of Paul Gallico attaching unfortunate religious implications to the Army game. From many sources came re­assuring protests, and an apology from Mr. Gallico to the Scholastic indicated that in his particular case it was a fault of flippancy rather than his theology. 

CLUB DIRECTORY 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Joseph 
H. Kraker. 'iS. 1776-24th St. Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio. President; Claude H. Homing. 
•29. 133 N. Hishland Ave.. Akron. Ohio. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF ARIZONA—James 
D. Barry, '97, Consolidated Bank Bldff.. Tucson. President: Steve Rcheil. '25, 620 N. Sixth St. Tucson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS—Rev. Goo. F. X. Strassncr. '14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C. '02. Dacca. President; Rev. J. J. Henessey. C.S.C. Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BERRIEN COUN­TY—Wm. H. Downey. '28. 1615 Oak St, NileE, Mich.. President: Malcoimn K. Hat­field, '29, 2305 Nilcs Ave.. S t Joseph. Mich.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON—Jarlath (Jack) Slattety, '31, 226 L. St, South Bos­ton, President: James Skahan, '31, 5 Grove St, Belmont Mass.. Secretary-
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO — Henry L. Bums. "29. 191 Euclid Ave.. President; Franklin O'Marah, '30, 1165 Del­aware Ave., Secretaary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUMET DIS­TRICT-C. Patrick Maloney, '16. 219 Petti­bone Ave.. Crown Point Ind.. President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITAL DISTRICT — Ronald McNamee. '24. SO Church St, Balston Spa, N. Y.. President: Richard Walsh. '31, 110 Union St, Schen­ectady, N. y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO—James 
F. McNicholas. '25. 760S Phillips Ave., Chi­cago, President: Neil C. Hurley, Jr.. '32. 914 Ashland Ave.. River Forest. HI., Sec­retary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ONCINNATI­
W. D. Morrisscy, '26, 700 Este Bldg., Presi­dent : Joseph Kinneary, '28, 1717 Gemwood Ave., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVEL.\ND— William R. Ryan. '11. 1761 Elberon Avenue. East Qeveland. President: Pierce J. O'Con­nor, '28, 1044 Hanna Bldg., Qeveland, Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTI­CUT VALLEY—Thomas E. Ferguson. '26, 37 Windsor St, Thompsonville, Conn.. Pres­ident : Francis D. Aheam, '29. 1 Webster S t Hartford, Conn., Secretary-
NOTRB DAME CLUB OF DALLAS, TEXAS —James P. Swift '24, 1202 Southwestern Ufe Bldg,, Dallas, President: Francis A. UcCulIough, '30, 917 First National Bank Bldg., Dallas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON—Amos Clay, '15, Union Trust Bids., President; An­drew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 210 Lexington Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER—Robert Dick, '29. 930 Grant St. President: Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES— James C. Shaw. '22, 307 Equitable BIdg., President: F. M. Wonderlin, '29, 302 Hub-bell Bide.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT—Chas. Molz. '24. 3010 W. Chicago Blvd.. President: Robert Baty, '30, 18074 Ohio Ave,, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA —James D. Hayes, '17, 5113 Eighth St. N.W., Washington, President: Harry M. Ambrose. '25. 1722-19th St. N.W., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EAST. PENN­SYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre. '23. Bethle­hem, Pa., President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE. PA.—Rich­ard D. Daley, *17, Erie DaUy Times, Presi­dent: Thomas Barber, '24. 416 Newman St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY—James Murphy. '22. 611 Security Bldg., Bridgeport, Conn.. President: Joseph 
E. Russo, '32, 166 Hough Ave.. Bridgeport. Conn.. Secretary.. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE— Robert Eggeman. '30. Old First Bank Bids., President: Thomas McKieman. '27. Fort Wayne National Bank. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE GOGEBIC RANGE—Victor E. Lemmer. '26. P.O. Box 
661. Ironwood. Mich.. President; Harold C. Cannon. '13, Curry Hotel, Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAPIDS. MICH.—George E. Ludwig. '25. 328 Glen-haven Ave.. N. W.. President: Raymond J. Bonini. '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., S.E., Sec­retary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY— Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office. City Hall, Green Bay, Wis., President: Levi 
A. Geniesse, '24, 510 Minahan Bldg., Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St. President: Marc A. Fiehrer. '27, 701 Rent­schler Bldg., Secretar>-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND — Norman Bartholomew. '15, 225 Qeveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich., Pres­ident : Michael S. Corry, '27, 837 Terrace Ave., Marinette, Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE Di\ME CLUB OF HOUSTON—M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave., Houston, Texas, President: T. F. Green, Jr„ '27, Conroe. Texas. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOLIS —Harry Scott '17. 838 N. Delaware St. President: John Carton. '28. City Hall, En­gineering Dept, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Joseph Silk, '20. 820 Ohio St. President; Thomas Fccley, '32. 316 Buell Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY— Daniel F. Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave., F t Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John M. Dusan. '27, 7401 Terrace Ave., Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Albert 
J. Gebert '30, U. of Wichita. Wichita, President: Dan Welchons, '30, 306 E. 13th St., Hutchinson, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.4MB CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Eugene J. Steuerle, "25. 1439 Willow Ave.. Louisville. Ky., President: John Bannon, '32, 2011 Sherwood, Louisville, Ky., Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE, IN­DIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indi­ana Ave,, LaPorte, President: Nonnan Duke, '33, 304 Niles St, Laporte. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES— Thomas Heam, '15, 1120 Pacific Finance Bldg.. President; Douglas Daley, '30. 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St, New Orleans, President; Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28. \Vhitncy-Central Bldg.. New Orleans. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Jaoobo Zobel. '23. Manila, P.I. President: A. F. Gonzales. '25, Insular Life Bldg.. 2nd FI.. Manila, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS—Wal­ter J. Fransioli. Jr.. '34. 218 N. McLean Blvd.. President; Theon Dohogne, '27. 1072 
S. Wellington St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL MICH­IGAN—Joseph W. Stack. '15. 1028 Chester­field Pkwy.. East Lansing. President: Chas. 
J. Connor. '33, 120 E. Kalamazoo, Lansing. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE— 
P. Dudley Pearson. '19. 2037 N. Lake Drive, President; John Qauder, '34, 735 N. Water St . temporary secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA—Earl 
W. Brown. '93. 320 Power St. Helena. Pres­ident: James B. O'Flynn. '11, Great Falls, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP NASHVILLE— Robert P. Williams, Jr., '29, lOS Gallatin Road, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY— 
B. K. Wingerter. '26. 113 S. Qinton St. East Orange. New Jersey. President: Ed­ward Hargan. '26, 178 De Witt Ave., Belle­ville. New Jersey, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—Royal H. Bosshard. '17. 324 Sansomc St. San Francisco. President: Robert B. Hill, '23, 6033 Proctor Ave., Oak­land, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO —Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hoster Real­ty Bldg.. Columbus, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOJIA— Jos. A. Moran, '32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. Okla.. President: Norbert F. Skelly, "25, University Club. Tulsa, Okla.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Frank 
T. Collier, '08, 721 Yeon Building. Portland. President: William C. Schmitt, 'ID. Consol­idated Equipment Co., Portland, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Holderm of Permanent Seats; Louis P. Harl. '16. Paris Office, N. Y. HertHd. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHOENIX ARI­ZONA—John E. Hilkert. '22. Box 62. Presi­dent: Julius J. Danch, '25. 1609 W. WiUetta St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA—Joseph 
J. Lanston, '28. 201 Hillyer Place, Presi­dent: William J. Mctsett. '34, 109 N. Maple-wood Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA -August Desch. '23, 1421 N. Broad St. President: Wm. E. Cooney. '31. 5725 McJIa­hon Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF RHODE ISLAND —Leo R. McAloon. 260 Pa\vtucket Ave.. Pawtucket, R. I.. President: John F. Mc-Kioman. 206 Lockwood Ave., Providence, 
R. I., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER— James Jones, *22, 319 Ellwanger and Barry Bids., President: Frank Norton. '32. 80 Beckwith Terrace, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Marclli. '27. 1418 Eighth St., Rockford. HI.. President: Fran­cis W. Howland. '25, 902 N. Main St., Rock­ford, HI., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN ANTONIO— Harold Tynan. '27. 240 E. Huisacke Ave.. President: Kirwin J. Williams. '28, 319 W. Gramercy, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. HarrinKton, '25, Continental Mortgage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SPRINGFIELD— Frank Zimmerman. '26, 931 N. HuUedge Ave.. President: Robert Graham. '26. 1537 
S. Douglas Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS—Rob't. HellrunB. '30. 306 N. Grand Blvd., Presi­dent: D. J. Ridley. Jr., 107 Arundel PI., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—William Sheehan. '25, 302 N. Main St., South Bend. Ind., President: Francis Jones. '29, 802 LO.O.F. Bide., South Bend. Ind.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK —W. Ed. Byrne. '26, Travelers Insurance Co., Syracuse, N.Y.. President: Ward L. Leahy. '26. 307 Forest Hill Drive. Syracuse. N. Y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN. OHIO— 
C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St.. Presi­dent: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Fred A. Sprenger. '30. 3129 Kimball Ave., President: Joseph L. Wetli. '31, 717 Starr Ave.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift. '20. Kahl BIdg., Daven­port, Iowa. President: Arthur L. Himbert, '32, 527 39th St., Rock Island. HI.. Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES —Joseph Carey, '32. 20 Roosevelt Ave.. En­dicott, N. Y., President: Regis McNamara. '33, 13 Crandall St.. Binghamton, N. Y., Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Eugene A. O'Brien. '28. 15 S. Fifth St.. Minneapolis. Minn.. President: John D. Yel­land. '30. 3221 Holmes Ave.. S.. Minneapolis. Minn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Raymond 
R. Brady, '24. 206 Keams BIdg.. Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Harbecke. '19. 64 F. St., Salt Lake City. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA. NEW YORK—Dr. John F. Keney. '22. Piaplaf Caa and Electric BIdz., President; Joseph 
W. Fullem, '31, 1621 Neilson St., Seeretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY-Noble Kizer, '25, Fordoe Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind., President; Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY— John Robinson. '28, 32 Farminston Ave., President; James M. Monaghan. '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENN­SYLVANIA—Ed. G. Byrnes, '26. 122 Haat­inga St., Pittsburgh, President: Charles Shecdy, '33, 5540 Bryant St.. Pittsburgh, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASH­INGTON — Joseph Sinnott, '08, 1931 B. Lynn St., Seattle, President: E. Morris Starrett. '21, 801 Washington St, Port 'Townsend. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley, '11, Citizens-Peo­ples Trust Co., Wheeling, President: George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick, C.S.C., '24, S t Mary'a College, Notre Dame, President: Miss Rose Steifaniak. '26, 161 Walnut St, Goldwater, Michigan, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGSTOWN— John Moran. '29, 1348 Quinn, President; Charles Cushwa, '31, 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 

CLASS SECRETARIES 
BEFORE 1880 —Hon Thomas F. Gallagher, Fitchburg, Mass. 
1880-85—Prof. Robert M. Anderson. Circleville. Ohio. 
1886—Michael O. Bums, 333 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
1888—John L. Heineman. Connersville. Ind. 
1889—P. E. Burke. 301 Camp St, New Or­leans, Louisiana 
1890-93—Louis P. Chute. 7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota 
1894—Hugh A. O'Donnell. 1 W. 67th St. New York City. 
1895—Eustace Oullinan. Sr., 860 Pheh-in BIdg., San Francisco, Calif. 
1896—William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City. Indiana 
1897—Rev. John A. MacNamara, St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Michigan. 
1898—^William C. Kegler. 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati. Ohio. 
1899—Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson BIdg.. Peoria, Illinois. 
1900—John W. Eggeman. Old First Bank Blldg., Fort Waj-ne. Indiana. 
1901—Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Qark St . Chicago. HI. 
1902—C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St, Box 3, Chicago, Illinois. 
1903—Francis P. Burke. 904 Trust Company BIdg.. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
1904—Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart Indiana. 
1905—Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St. Chicago, Hlinois. 
190S—Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen BIdg.. Spokane, Washington. 
1908—Frank X. Cull. Bulkley BIdg., Qeveland. Ohio. 
1909—E. P. Qeary, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
1910—Rev. M. L. Moriirty. 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1911—Fred L. Steers. 1635 First National Bk. BIdg., Chicago, Hlinois. 
1912—B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania. 
1913-James R. Devitt 921 Engineers BIdg.. Geveland. Ohio. 
1914—Frank H. Hayes. 405 Bank of America BIdg., Anaheim, Calif. 
1915—James E. Sanford, 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park, Illinois. 
1916—^Timothy P. Galvin. 708 First Trust BIdg., Hammond, Indiana. 
1917—Edward J. McOsker. 104 S. Union St, Elgin, Hlinois. 
1918—John A. Lcmmer. 1110-8th Ave.. S., Es­canaba, Michigan. 
1919—Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St, Gary, Indiana. 
1920—Leo B. Ward, 1912 Black BIdg., Los Angeles, California. 
1921—Alden J. Cusick, 1 Park Ave., New York City. 
1922—Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Athletic Oub, Buf­falo, N. Y. 
1923—Paul Castner, "White Motor Company, Cleveland, Ohio. 
1924—James F. Hayes, Fifth Avenue Ass'n., New York City. 
1925—John W. Scallan. Pullman Co., 79 E. Adams St , Chicago, HI. 
1926—Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 96 N. Walnut S t East Orange, N. J. 
1927—Edmund DeQerq. 8118 Ellis Ave., Chi­cago, Illinois. 
1928—Louis Buckley. 71S E. Corby St, South Bend, Indiana. 
1929—Joseph McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
1930—Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St, New Kensington, Pa. 
1931—John E. Boland. 1402 Linden St, Scranton, Pa. 
1932—Herbert Giorgio, 9005 188th St, Hollis, 
L. L. N. Y. 

1933—Donald Wise, 1246 Hillcrest Road. South Bend, Ind. 
1934-^ames Moscow. 2320 N. Lawndale Ave., Chicago, HI. 





