The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 34 No. 2 
m. 
Four licciii]!^ of 5ro»'lIi at Notre Dame are represented by these Holy Cross priests %%ho [have serted as president. The .Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C. ^eatc d left), x\rchbtshop of Phila­iiclphia, was president from 1934 to 1940, and Rev. Matthew Walsh, CS.C. (seated right), now retired, m 1922 to 1928. Uev. Theodore .M. Hcsburijh, CS.C , is the current president, while Rev. John J. ^avanaugh, CS.C. (standing right), pleade d the University from 1946 to 1952 and is presently Director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Class 
Reunion Weekend scheduled for June 8-9-10 on campus. See program on page 2 
mr' 

h 
t 'ip 
w 

*& 
34lli observance of Univcrsial Notre Dame Night to be held by Alumni Clubs on April 9th—or within the octave. See page 3 Notre Dame being considered for location of world's most powerful atom smasher research center. See page 9 

March-April 1956 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr. '37 Managing Editor 
w\ 
..^M 
Placement Bureau under direction of Father Mendez offers senices to Alumni Association. Sec pages 10-11 
ALL OF THIS FOR ?20 

Class Reunion Weekend 
June 8-9-10 
Class of  1906  Howard  Hall  Class of  1931  Lyons  Hall  
Class of  1911  Howard  Hall  Class of  1936  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1916  Howard  Hall  Class of 1941  Dillon  Hall  
Class of  1921  Howard  Hall  Class of  1946  Badin  Hall  
Class of  1926  Morrissey  Hall  Class of 1951  Dillon  Hall  

Friday, June 8 
General Registration—Law Building. One fee, $20, will be collected at registration, which will cover the general and class expenditures. 
Class Registration and Room—registration will be in the halls as listed above. 
Weekend Golf Tournament (beginning Friday). 
Class events scheduled on Friday night: 1906—Informal class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1911—Class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1916—Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1921—^Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1926—^Evening buffet. Donor's Room, Morris Inn. 1931—Twenty-five-Year Silver Jubilee Reunion Dinner, University 
Dining Hall. 1936—^Dinner, Rockne Memorial Lounge 1941—Buffet, Mahogany Room, Morris Inn. 1946—Class dinner. Lay Faculty Room, University Dining Hall. 1951—Reunion supper, Vet Rec Hall. 
Saturday, June 9 
Class Masses, Class Pictures. 
Golf Tournament, all day. Father Hesburgh's Luncheon for the 25-year Class, Lay Faculty Room, Dining Halls. 
Box Lunches for all other reunion classes Saturday noon. 
Tours—^I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, Nieuwland Science Hall, LaFortune Student Center, Saturday afternoon. 
Movies, Washington Hall, Saturday afternoon. Annual Alumni Banquet, University Dining Halls, Saturday night. 
Sunday, June 10 

Low Mass, Sacred Heart Church, with a Sermon for Notre Dame Men. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
m 
GEN. ALFRED M. GRUENTHER. 

GRUENTHER NAMED. LAETARE RECIPIENT' 
General Alfred M. Gruenther, Su­preme Allied Commander in Europe, has been named recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 1956. He is die fourth militarj-figure to receive the award which has been presented annually since 1883 to an outstandin American Catholic layman. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, in announc­ing the selection of NATO's command­ing general, said: 

"General Gruenther exemplifies to a superlative degree tlie devotion, integ­rity and resourceful leadership that thci United States expects of its milita: men. His brilliance, evident even in his student days at West Point, has long been recognized throughout our defense establbhment. In Europe, where he commands forces representing fifteen nations, he is respected as a statesman as well as a soldier. The University of Notre Dame, in confer­ring its Laetare Medal on Gene; Gruenther, honors him for all these things but especially for his virile spir­itual life. He personifies the militarj' power and tlie spiritual strength which are the western world's bulwark against the Communist tyranny." 
General Gruenther was appointed Supreme Commander of all NAT' ' forces in Europe as well as Commander­in-Chief of the U. S. European Com­mand in July, 1953. For the previous; two-and-a-half years he had served as^ Chief of Staff at SHAPE (Supremi' Headquarters Allied Powers Europe) first under General Eisenhower ancS later under General Matthew Ridgwayi 


O'Neill, New Alumni Head 
Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., '36, Midland, 
^exas , was elected president of the ^otr e Dame Alumni Association by the Board of Directors at their Winter meeting held on campus during the weekend of January 20. O'Neill, for­mer Irish grid star and currently an independent oil operator, succeeds Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, Pittsburgh, Pa., 
burgeon. The latter will remain on the Board for another year as Honorary President. 
Newly elected vice presidents in­clude: John E. Mclntyre, '31, general manager and executive vice-president of the Sibley Machine and Foundry President Joseph I. O'Neill, '36, outlines a few plans for fellow officers of the Alumni Asso­Corp., South Bend, Ind.; Robert H. ciation at the Board of Directors' annual Winter meeting. Left to right: John £. Mdntyrc, 
Ipore, Jr., president of the Governors '31, first vice-president; Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, retiring president, and current honorary president; O'Neill; Robert H. Gore, '31, second vice-president; and James E. Armstrong, '25 
Xilub and Sea Ranch Hotels, Ft. Lau­
(standing), secretary. James L. Ferstel, '48, third vice-president, was absent when derdale, Fla.; and James L. Ferstel, photograph was taken. 
'48, Chicago, 111., attorney. James E. Armstrong, '25, was re-elected execu­tive secretajy of the Alumni Associa­Board the major aspects of the Uni­tlte President's Council to be held in tion for the 31st year. 
versity's programs, particularly as they June several days before Reimion Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., affect alumni. Weekend. Local club presidents will .addressed board members at the open-be invited back to the campus for a
Considering club activities to be a 

,9ag session of their three-day meeting. 
vital asset of the Alumni Program, the "workshop" on ways and means of Father Hesburgh outlined for the Board approved the 1956 meeting of bettering the annual club program. 
The Board re-affirmed its emphasis on Prestige and Public Relations as one of the three major areas of alimmi activity, and the need for alumni clubs, 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT classes and individuals to do all they can to identify and advance Notre APRIL 9th Dame Men in these areas. The Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., LOCAL LEADERSHIP is the theme of the 33rd Universal Notre Dame Director of Admissions, pointed out to the Board the excellent response of 
Night. Alumni Clubs have been urged to spotlight the leadership contribu­
alumni to the Fall mailing for pros­
tion which Notre Dame has made through the local community. Alumni 
pective student names. He also an­
leaders in spiritual life, in politics, in business and industry, in the professions 
nounced a substantial increase in appli­
and in various organizations will be honored by many clubs on this significant 

cations for September, 1956, as of occasion. January 1, in comparison with the pre­ceding year. 
MAN-OF-THE-YEAR AWARDS again shape up as one of the outstanding features of UND Night programs planned for alumni clubs from coast to Board members Ibtened to the Rev. coast. 
Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, Placement Di­rector, and Professor Herbert Bott, his 
UND NIGHT MEETINGS in 1955 were held by 115 clubs according to 
assbtant, discuss the present program 

reports received by the Alumni Office. (SPECIAL MEMO TO AIL CLUB 
of the Placement Bureau. The Board 
PRESIDENTS: LET'S BREAK THAT RECORD THIS YEAR!) 
recommended that facilities be extend­ed for the services of alumni needs as well as those existing for graduating 
THE HISTORY OF UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT dates back to 1924 

when the late Mr. John H. Neeson, '03, of Philadelphia, Pa., proposed to 
seniors. 

the then 26 alumni clubs that on an agreed night in the Spring, Notre Dame 
The Board of Directors will hold their 

Men everywhere should gather to pay a simultaneous tribute to their alma 
annual summer meeting on campus just 

mater. 
prior to Class Reimion Weekend on Jne 8, 9 and 10. 

iVotr* Dame Alumnus, March-April, 7956 
Was he perhaps a martyr who died for some great cause, a patriot win 
laid down his life for his country, a

ROCKNE KILLED 

25 YEARS AGO 
A T?-ibute to the Memory of a Great Man 
March 31st will mark the 25th anni­versar)' of the tragic death of the im­mortal KnuteK. Rockne in an airplane crash. To generations of Notre Dame men who came after him the name "Rockne" is still revered and respected at Our Lady's University. The Rockne Memorial, housing modem facilities for swimming, handball, wrestling, gymnastics and odier intra-mural sports, will always perpetuate the mem­ory of Notre Dame's great coach on the campus he loved so well. 
Notre Dame's philosophy of educa­tion is the "training of the whole man." It is a philosophy tliat encourages young men to strengthen and nurture their bodies as well as their souls. Rock exemplified and taught tlie high ideals of education as it is known at Notre Dame. Various alumni clubs—includ­ing the St. Joseph Valley and Cleve­land— observe the anniversary of Rock's death with a Communion Breakfast as a special event on their annual program. 
In tribute to the memorj' of a great man, tlie ALUMNUS reprints e.xcerpts from the sermon given at Knute Rockne's funeral by the Rev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., then president of the University: 
President Sent Condolences 
"Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord." These comforting words, in this hour of sorrow, derive their com­fort from belief in the existence and the benevolence of God. Who is the Lord in whom we live and move and are, in whom is a blessedness to die? Let Himself answer: "I am Who am." "I am the Alpha and Omega, the be­ginning and the end." He is that neces­sary, self-existent Being, demanded by our reason and revealed by His own handiwork as the only key, the only satisfactory intellectual explanation of the riddle of life. Sought and found by our reason. He is further guaranteed by that exercise of our reason and our 
Knute Rockne 1888-1931 
help from Him, is the supernatural 
act of faith." 
In this holy week of Christ's passion 
and death there has occurred a tragic 
event which accounts for our presence 
here today. Knute Rockne is dead. 
And who was he? Ask the President 
of tlie United States, who dispatched a 
personal message of tribute to his 
memory and comfort to his bereaved 
family. Ask the King of Norway, who 
sends a special delegation as his person­
al representatives to this solemn service. 
Ask tlie several State legislatures, now 
sitting, that have passed resolutions of 
sympathy and condolence. Ask the 
university senates, the civic bodies and 
societies without number; ask the 
bishops, the clergy, die religious orders, 
that have sent assurances of sympathy 
and prayers: ask the thousands of news­
paper men, whose labor of love in his 
memory has stirred a reading public of 
125,000,000 Americans; ask men and 
women from every walk of life; ask the 
children, the boys of America, ask any 
and all of these, who was this man 
whose death has struck the nation with 

•dismay and has everywhere bowed heads in grief. 
statesman, a soldier, an admiral of the fleet, some heavenbom artist, an in­ventor, a captain of industr)' or fi­nance? No, he was Knute Rockne, director of athletics and football coach at Notre Dame. He was a man of thijjj people, a husband and father, a citi­zen of South Bend, Indiana. Yet, had he been any one of these personages that have been mentioned, the tributes of admiration and affection which he has received could not be more uni­versal or more sincere. 
Funeral in Sacred Heart Church 
We who are here are but a handful of his friends, come to pay our last tribute of devotion to his mortal re­mains, to give some token of our affec­tion that so be his dear ones, his loving wife and children, his venerable mother and his sisters, may in their sorrow btS^ a little comforted by our sympathy and the knowledge that we too loved him. Of necessity, we are few in number in this hallowed place, though thousands are without the doors. But we repre­sent millions of men and women like ourselves who are here in spirit in the very spirit of these solemn services, and; listening all over America to these holy U rites. 
It is fitting he should be brought here to his beloved Notre Dame and that his body should rest a little while in this church where the light of Faith broke upon his happy soul, where the waters of Baptism were poured on hi;-v brow, where he made his first coril fession, received his first Holy Com­munion, and was confirmed by the same consecrated hand that today is raised in blessing above his coffin. He might have gone to any university in the land and been gladly received and forever cherished there. But he chose^ Our Lady's school. Notre Dame. H H honored her in his life as a student, he honored her in the monogram he earned and wore, he honored her in the "principles he inculcated and the ideals he set up in the lives of the young men under his care. He was her own true son." -j., 
The magazine is published bi-monthly by the UnK-ersity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as sec­ond class matter Oct. 1, 1930, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
management included R. J. Meehan, Continental Can Co., Chicago and 
•Current Issues Discussed at 
Claude A. Loesch, Indiana Manufac­
turers Association, Indianapolis; Tho­mas E. Hansen, International Assor 

Union-Management Confab 
ciation of Machinists, Chicago; Mar­
More than 500 midwest union offi­

cial s and industrial executives were on liand to discuss current issues in col­lective bargaining at the fourth annual Union-Management Conference held in Washington Hall on February 24th. 
The Union-Management Confer­ence is sponsored by the University's department of economics in conjunc­tion with the Notre Dame law school. It was founded in 1953 by Rev. Mark 
J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., director of the industrial relations section of the eco­nomics department and conference chainnan. 

The respective roles of union and manasement in industrial relations Ivere discussed by the principal speak­ers, Joseph D. Keenan, Industrial Sec­retary, International Brotherhood of Electrical AVorkers, during the morn­ing sessions, and John H. Lind, mana­ger, department of industrial relations. Standard Oil of Indiana, in the after­noon sessions, fc Panel discussions between manage­ment and labor representatives follow­ed each speaker. Their talks covered such topics as: a joint administration of trust funds, how much information a company should give its union, sup­plementar)' wage plans, proposed re­visions of unemployment compensation, layoff and rehiring procedures and in­centive rates and day rate wage plans. 
Charles C. Killingsworth, head of the department of economics, Michigan State University and Ronald W. Haughton, permanent impartial chair­man under the B. F. Goodwich Co.— United Rubber ^Vorkers Contract in Detroit, presided as panel chairmen. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., president of Notre Dame, delivered a welcome address to the conference members. 
Joseph E. Moody, president. South-em Coal Producers Association, was one of three management representa­tives in the six-man labor-management panelists to give his views on New Trends in Negotiations. Others for vin J. Miller, United Steelworkers of America, Pittsburgh; and Leonard Lesser, United Auto Workers, Wash­ington, D. C , represented labor. 

Father Fitzgerald Is Vice-President of C.E.A. 
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, one of the foremost specialists in industrial relations and associate professor of economics at Notre Dame, has been elected first vice-president of the Catholic Economic Association for 1956. 
Founded in 1941, the CEA has a membership of approximately 500 including business and professional men as well as teachers of economics both Catholic and non-Catholic. 
He is also author of the new book, Britain Views our Industrial Re­lations. 

SOUTHERN COOK COUNTY (III.)—Present at the ND Club's organizational meeting, recently, were (first row, left to right), John G. Zarante, '48, club president; Monsignor Walter E. Croarkin, pastor of St. Agnes Church; Mrs. Wm. F. Donahue, Jr., William F. Donahue, Jr., '35; and Rev. Lawrence Broestl, C.S.C., guest speaker from the campus. In the second row, Mrs. William Martin, Mrs. John G. Zarante, Mrs. Jack Morley, Mrs. Jack Ogren, Mrs. Dan Shannon, Mrs. Romy Hammes and Miss Betina Buidotti. In the third row, MiHi.­liam E. Martin, '49; Jack Morley; Jack Ogren, president of the Alumni Club in Calumet Area; Dan Shannon, 1934 football co-captain; Richard Petrarca, '53, chairman of Charter Night Banquet and Mr. Romy Hammes, donor of the new Hammes Bookstore building at Notre Dame. 

Revised Music Degree To Stress ''Education of the Whole Man" First 
remarked that music students have^i been known to receive degrees withou" being able to recognize, much less com­ment intelligently on such familiar works as Beethoven's "Fifth Sym­phony," "The Emperor Concerto" or Schubert's "Der ^Vanderer^" 
Majoring in music at Notre Dame offers all the advantages and resource:S of a nationally-known university, plus the special attention and interest of faculty members possible only in a rela­tively small music department. 
A composer and pianist as well as former director of the Moreau Semi­nary Choir at Notre Dame, Fathen Hager was appointed head of the music department last August. 
Other members of the music depart­ment and their specialities are: Pro­fessors Carl Mathes, piano; Charles Biondo, string instruments; Robert O'Brien, director of the Notre Dame Bands; Daniel Pedtke, director of the Notre Dame Glee Club; Eugene Lahey, musicolog}'; Cecil Birder, voice: and Rev. William McAuliffe, C.S.C.', Gregorian Chant. 
Almanac Editor Geiger, '32 Is More Right Than Wrong 

Editor RajTnond A. Geiger, '32, prM dieted in his Farmer's Almanac that this would be a "fairly rugged winter" and so far it seems that he is more than right. The Farmer's Almanac has been printed since 1818 and this year it rolled off the presses in a new home, Leiviston, Me. Geiger Brothers Com-I pany moved their plant from Newark. 
N. J., to Lewiston after manufacturinf almanacs, calendars, diaries and spec-j ialties for many years in New Jersey. 
The Almanac is designed as a cus-j tomer give-away item for insurance! companies, gasoline films and othei business houses who purchased a mil­lion copies for distribution last year. Ray Geiger describes the Almanac -M a "cultural link with the past" rather than an "agricultural guide." He has been editor of the publication since his] firm took over the Almanac in 1935. Ray says that forecasts are made up] almost two years in advance and they are "75 to 80 percent accurate." 
There is diversification of inform" tion in the Almanac, including: astro nomical data planting chart for farm­ers, principal feast days and holidays] for many religions, tide tables, an ecdotes, poems, recipes and one pagi even offers instruction on how t((; pack a suitcase. 
Ai»uj.»^4...mBj..jjigy«! 
A revised music education program with increased emphsisis on Liberal Arts studies and leading to the degree of Bachelor of Music Education will be inaugurated at the Universit)' in September. 
The new music curriculum includes more than 50 semester hours in historj', literature, philosophy^ religion and the social sciences. According to Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., head of the department of music, the step was deemed neces­sary to counter the present trend of educators in placing too must stress on techniques and methodology and not enough on the humanities. 
The Notre Dame priest-musician further emphasized that this course of studies is first "to educate the man" and secondly "to train the musician or music educator." 
Notre Dame Alumntis^ March-April, 1956 
Students enrolling in this program, in addition to selecting a major area of voice or instrumental study, will also receive private instruction on at least one instrument in the %voodwind, brass, string and percussion sections. Also, they wU both read and perform scores, which have been written for schools. 
The curriculum includes a sufficient number o facademic hours in education to prepare tlie student for teacher cer­tification in most states. 
An unusual feature of the revised music education program will be a four year cycle course in "Music Literature" in which the student will receive train­ing in the recognition, analysis, criti­cism and performance, when possible, of the great works in everj' important area of music literature. Father Hager 

The Indianapolis Campus Club contributed $300 to the scholarship fund which has been m^ntained by the ND Alumni Club of Indianapolis. Left to right: Phil Kramer, treasurer, presenting check to Father T. J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., Associate Director of the Foundation, while Campus Club prcxy Don Walz approves the transaction. The Campus Club has been a frequent donor to the scholarship fund in recent years. 
and secondary schoob in the area em­bracing New York, New Jersey, Penn­

^d4io;U<U eonwte*ih ^^IZ^^
sylvania, Delaware, Maryland and the 
In Januar)', 1926, thirty years ago, I assumed the job of the first full-time Alumni Secretar>' of the Alumni Asso­ciation of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. This in­cluded ' editorship of 
I the ALUMNUS, % which was first pub­lished in 1923. 
The ne-Nt mondi, Febniary, 1926, the first meeting of an Jim Armstrong 
Alumni Board, pro­vided in a new Constitution, was held. So the Aiumni Board and I have grown together during the subsequent three decades. \Ve have grown from 2,400 to 24,000 alumni. 
It is always easier to know than to do. 

"rha t first Alumni Board urged, for avample, the establishment of a Place­ment Office through the Alumni Asso­ciation. It urged the establishment of pub­licity committees in each Local Alum­ni Club. It urged financial development, in­
•eluding one suggestion of annual un­restricted giving by alumni, and de­cided upon a budget. The anticipated revenue for 1927—based on a better year than any in the history of the Association in 1926—^was $4,000 in dues, which was $8,000 below the pro­jected budget. In 1955 the Alumni Fund passed the $500,000 mark. ' Twenty Local Clubs reported on the 1926 Universal Notre Dame Night, the third in the series of Nights, and three more were added the following mondi —a total of 23 meetings. Last Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, 1955, the 32nd in the series, seventy-one Local 
^lub s reported in the Universal Notre 
^am e Night issue, and forty-four re­ported in the following issue on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night meetings, a total of 115 meetings. 
Three hundred Seniors were gradu­ated in June of 1926. One thousand graduates were added to the Associa­

l^on roster in June, 1955. Eleven thou­sand five hundred and eighteen (11,­
518) degrees have been conferred by the University in the last ten years. 
In January, 1926, the Notre Dame ALUMNUS devoted one column of its small-size page, lai^e type, to news of 
wo Alumni Clubs. The first issue in 
1955, January-February, devoted seven pages of its large size pages, in small type, to news of fifty Clubs. 
In the January, 1926, Notre Dame ALUMNUS, in its small-page size, with large type, six pages were devoted to Class Notes from twenty Classes. In the January, 1955, ALUMNUS, in its large-size pages, with small type, twenty-three pages' were devoted to Class Notes from thirty-three Classes. 
Also, since 1938, the Alumni Office 
has been promoting \vith increasing 
results the Annual Universal Notre 
Dame Communion Sunday on the Sun­
day nearest the Feast of the Immacu­
late Conception. 
The Alumni Association in 1950, through the University, was successful in having established on the campus a full-time Placement and Counselling Office, losing, as its full-time Director, the late 'William R. Dooley, '26, who, since 1933, had been a valuable mem­ber of the Alumni Association staff. 
In 1947, through the Alumni Asso­ciation and its dynamic president, Harry G. Hogan, '04, the University organized the Notre Dame Foundation, with your Aiumni Secretary as Assist­ant Director, at the same time con­tinuing the e-xpanding alumni duties. In 1948, the Foundation established the quarterly magazine, NOTRE DAME, with your Alumni Secretary as its Editor. 
These are a few of the highlights of the thirt)' years, and the contrasts Avhich indicate the accompanying de­mands. There has of course been ac­companying increase in help, but the personnel, the oiBces and the budget have been hard pressed to follow the combined horizontal and vertical de­velopments which have only been im­plicitly highlighted in the above memo­randa. 
—JIM ARMSTRONG 


King's College Accredited 
King's College, owned and ad­ministered by the Congregation of Holy Cross Fathers, in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., has just been admitted to membership in the Middle States Association of Col­leges and Secondary Schools according to Rev. George P. Benaglia, C.S.C, president. The association is the regional accrediting group for colleges District of Columbia. Father Benaglia pointed out that membenhip in the association, which brings with it oflB­cial recognition by the Regional Ac­crediting Association, represents a high achievement and one that enhances the reputation of King's College as an institution of higher learning. 


AB Gallery Displays Chinese Art Works 
Chinese Buddhist 

An exhibit of three dimensional Chi­nese art from the Loo collection has been on display in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. 
Among the works shown was a stone Bodhasatlva, a statue of a minor fig­ure in the Buddhist religion. It dates from a period when a great deal of religious work was done. 
Other works in the exhibit are a horseman, camel and a bronze con­tainer known as a "Chia" vessel. The vessel is very rare and is the only one in the Loo collection. 
Many of the pieces are delicately formed daggers and instruments of war. According to Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C, \vho brought the ex­hibit to the campus, the worlonanship in the display would be considered a feat because of its age. 
S5^" 



Prominent Scientist Added To Lobund's Research Staff 
The University's Lobund Institute added Dr. Thomas G. Ward, an out­standing virologist and autliority on the common cold, to its research staff in Januar)'. 
A member of the Johns Hopkins University faculty with the exception of the war years, Dr. Ward is co-dis­coverer of the APC group of xdruses which are responsible for a large pro­portion of the acute feverish respiratory diseases of a non-bacterial origin. 
He is especially renowned for his work witli the influenza virus, mumps virus and viruses of the common cold. Most recently he worked as a member of a research team developing and test­ing on human volunteers a virus vac­cine which holds promise of prevent­ing certain upper respiratory infec­tions. 
At Notre Dame, Dr. AVard, with the academic rank of professor, will join a group of research scientists led by Professor James A. Reyniers, found­er and director of Lobund. Dr. ^Vard will experiment with germfree animals, a part of the Institute's program, as 
DR. THOMAS G. WARD 
well as continue his investigations in the field of virus diseases. 
A native of Athens, La., Dr. Ward received his medical degree from Bay­lor University in 1935 and degree of Doctor of Public Health from Johns Hopkins in 1941. 
As a Lt. Colonel during World ^Var II, he was chief of tlie Preventivt Medicine Section, Office of the Sur­geon, U.S. Army Forces in the Middle East, and held a corresponding post in the Pacific area. He also served as director of the division of epidemiology Office of the Surgeon General. 
In addition to his Army MedicaJ^ Reserve rank of Colonel, Dr. AVard holds memberships in several profes­sional societies including the AMA, the American Public Health Associa­tion, Society of American Bacteriolo­gists, New York Academy of Sciences and the American Statistical Associa-^. tion. He is also consultant to Navai J Medical Research Unit No. 4, Great Lakes, 111. Dr. Ward is married and has three children. 

SUMMER PILGRIMAGE 
An early Summer Pilgrimage to j^ shrines in Ireland, England and Western Europe is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Mission Band. The Rev. John P. O'Connell, C.S.­C, '30, will be the Spiritual Di­rector of the pilgrimage. The group will sail on the Franconia May 31 or fly June 7 via TWA. For further information apply to Guild of Cath­olic Travel, 500 Fifth Ave., New York 36, N. Y. 

PITTSBURGH—Approximately 74 members of the Pittsburgh Club attended the annual Notre Dame three-day retreat at St. Paul's Mon­astery in January. George H. Kingsley, Jr. was again chairman of the event. Father Bertin Donahue was the retreat master. 
'iJij»>.<ji>«trfi»-ta.ua»itfcjJ!.iJn'tJl»»;^!aa--^J.-<iij»»agB;>«g!W8>i 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 


llotre Dame Picked as Possible Site for MURA'S 50-Million Dollar Atom Smasher 
Notre Dame and 13 other Midwest educational institutions will mobilize their atomic scientists to design and develop the world's most powerful ultra high enei^ accelerator (atom smasher) according to an announce­

,«jient from the Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C. Notre Dame is one of the sites being considered for the mam­moth project which is authorized by the U. S. Atomic Enei^ Commission. Other Midwest universities in this group include University of Chicago, _ University of Illinois, Indiana Univer­sity, State University of Iowa, Iowa State College, Michigan State Univer­sity, University of Michigan, Univer­sity of Minnesota, Northwestern Uni­versity, Ohio State University, Purdue University, Washington University of St. Louis and University of Wisconsin. ^ This cooperative development by 
these institutions of higher learning will 
be designated as MURA (an abbre­
viation for the Midwestern Universi­
ties Research Association). MURA 
has been a corporate structure for more 
than a year and has been engaged in 
supporting a study of high energy 
accelerators through the direction of 
Professor D. W. Kerst of the University 
of Illinois. 

Father Hesburgh is a member of the MURA board o[ directors and the board's executive committee. Also representing Notre Dame will be Dr. Bernard \Valdman, director of the uni­" versity's nuclear physics project, and 
G. Edward Harvvood, comptroller. 
It is estimated that the project may cost as much as $50 million and, ac­cording to Dr. Waldman, the proposed accelerator would generate "billions of volts." 
The most powerful particle accelera­tor in existence today is the bevatron 

, at the University of California Radia­tion Laboratory in Berkeley. Dr. Wald­man stated that the accelerator to be built in the Midwest will be even more powerful than that in California and one presently under construction on Long Island. 
Members of MURA's technical group have come principally from physics departments of the associated universities. They are supported finan­cially by funds from the National Science Foundation and the Office of Naval Research. 
Father Hesburgh said that an ob­jective of this project is to create an: outstanding institute of high energy physics which will be open to all quali­fied physicists. It is expected that the institute will become a strong educa­tional as well as research center. 
m

jPlacement Office jTo Assist Alumni I In Job Requests mmmm 
<.',• <•.•;; f-^'v^T.iAv. 

i 
<.••:. V . r^^»:--i 

iRev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, [Serves as Director of N.D. i Placement Bureau 
3^ 
v_ ?i;" Si-Mi 

:'^&' 
111 
^4' 

>^52: ^•';-' 
;S5, •••• ri-;/:/. 
•^^€ 
1 secretary '" " student 

crsona* s*^ .^ secretary »" 
•is P' 
Vierce 
cvtuf-', 

Mrs. Rose' marv 
1 



mREmAm 
r-'^''C:;':^°«­
•fji-^--• —" _ ' 
'•=-^-' 

,.„..., ^ -, ^.-:.;:A,-VC; 
v:-"-'-,"->.^'.^a 
ft. 

New job opponunities remain at the doorstep of every Notre Dame alum­nus, if he remembers that the Notre Dame Placement Bureau stands ever ready to assist him. 
Under the directorsliip of Rev. Al­fred F. Mendez, C.S.C., the Bureau endeavors, not only to help place the more than 900 seniors graduating in June, but also to assist all the alumni in even- way possible. Over 450 inter­viewers from 300 companies will visit the campus from February to May. 
Once an alumnus registers with the Placement Office, all job opportunities received daily at the campus office per­tinent to his needs are at his disposal. 
Informational Literature 

'I"lie alumni seeking employment are asked to keep in contact with the Bureau through mail, or personal visits, for if not heard from within 30 days of his registration, the Bureau presumes he was successful in his quest. In­formation sent immediately upon re-Cjuest comprises a Registration Record, and infonnational literature entitled: "What the Placement Bureau Is and Isn't," "Hints for .Alumni," "Your Job Campaign by Mail," and "Finding Your Job." 
.Another valuable source of assist­ance is the alumni club, whose mem­bers may be influential for the job-seek­ing alumnus. The Placement Bureau lecomniends' to alumni club presidents that "their finest contribution to the campus office, and consequently to all alumni, is to send a list of the out­standing Notre Dame men in their area who are in a position to hire, such as presidents, vice-presidents, managers, superintendents, pereonnel directors." There is no intention to flood these companies with job seekers, but, as Father Mendez e.vplained, "prudently to channel eveiy worthwhile need of a fellow alumnus." 
It is lioped tliat the important local office of a Placement Director in each large Notre Dame Club may be re­activated in order to seive the alumni needs more efficiently, both local and outside. 
For the job-hunting alumni, most of whom comprise the returning G.I., the Placement Bureau offers a number of invaluable Iiints and suggestions as to the ways and means of finding employ­ment. Generally, most advice can. be summed up in this way: "You'll get 
(continued on page 13) 


^ Tafk With " iMrO'Connotf 
By LPVIS NICHOIS 
a darkly suspidoos vot^i
IN 
there are bound to be some 

THE HERO AS AN IRISH^AMi who will whisper of similarities 
between FYank Skeffington -of 
"The Last Hurrah" (reviewed 

PomicalBo»am.*eGam.H.PUl2 
on Page One of this issue) and 5T HURRAH. By Edwin O'Comix. James Michael Curley of ton. Presumably tfa ^ peoplff 

P<^,veJinMr<yC«^* No»d 
have their own private attor­

>y JOHN V. KEUEHER 
neys, and will be ably defended. BE, after a century of trying, From EUwin O'Connor, however, ia the first succeaslia Iriah-they wm get no corroborating Ameiican novel. It succeeds l>«-testimony, for does he not at the i unlike most earlier attempts, it bead of the book set down the j ia a novel, and because the 
usual disclaimer about charac­
ters and fiction? 

|r is completely at ease alwut be­
O'Connor's Novel
in Irish-American. So far as I True, Mr. O'Coimor lives in I, these conditions have not been EDWIN Boston, has seldom lived farther jled mmultaneously before. Is Best Seller 
away than.the rim of the wheel 
circling that pleasant bub. True, 

O'CONNOR. 
he is interested in politics. But Edwin O'Connor graduated 

his concern is historical, as be from Notre Dame in 1939 and will tell you, and is directed gen­has been a struggling writer erally at fellow-Irish-Americana 
therein. "The Last Hurrah," until a few short months ago. 

then, is just the Irish-American Then the struggle abruptly 

I 
in him coming ou^ and is not O\d Croc ceased. He skyrocketed to lit­the product of a mid-century 
Outrageous ^gj^„l 
erary fame ("almost over­muekraker living, perhaps whimsically, on Beacon HiU. De­
night") after plugging away fense rests, tentatively at least. | tyj 
Connor—'^"'" .w decided for four years on his sensa­"I got interested in the polit­tional new novel of the Irish­ical set-up of an American cit^ American political era, "The 
when in the Coast Guard duri^ Last Hurrah." the war," he said. "My station happened to be Boston. Before 
^•'^^^^'°\ KP « ""'^1 Back came It won the .Atlantic Prize, that I had been at Notre Dame 
« agreed. *^P^,.ie«- copi; »^ ,,.;* a with the sons of some Chicago 





Hurrah 
was selected as Book-of-the­^ n "fand chU] " ^'J^^ctoE^narian: politicians, and I suppose that] 
*^ ^°°h. ftom the dousWy oci b^ ^^^„. Month (Februar>') and movie 
started » curt "<"«,["" in *'.^^"ttAon-. a strong rights have brought him a
"The in>^^"'for Ws indignation $175,000 guarantee. 
His background includes writing a television column for the Boston Post, doing radio announcing and produc­tions and sen-ing as a public ^" e O-Conno'' :^-^J,Zl ^^ **' 
Greene O^" je 5/=° " • dUB" information officer in the Coast Guard during Worid War II. 
Ed O'Connor did no polit­^°F "• It's eranf ^° *"""£ wji ,, ical research prior to writing the political novel that is sweeping the countrj'. He didn't seek out political ex­
s are 

I Club. 11 '5 the brisv ^^^ ^,g ca> asparagus bed i 
perts for infonnation. made r.,w - 's 
"I just listened to people talk, old Irish people who ob-h^°"'"^?mFors&"Tstta 
at"--™S  sour *
«"« ««• 

H P^^"'^%mbinK'''";J:tda ser\'ed the old political scene. 
"issentLh "' 

'R^brHood,aCh.ror70,S I'm a good listener and I ,nte lohn Barr}"-""- lection a: made a mental note of ever>'­thing they said." 
ATLANTIC 
to be. -S^^'i "P 

Hurrah,". ^Vf«t LITTLE, BROWN 
O'Connor, X^'"'' 
'hat. In f'l J"st 
Month cbo.« t«F ^ j^ j^ ^ I^y gether a ««" f ^f^milest American novel, P"'*^-, i,e social ra»g»^ 
-"t^£"­




The Last Wtni
book in a a«!f^^^ handled, and i» 

very wide «^f*^" L Irish stamping ^ at all Belted to «M^ ^ „^„ the -by D. Bernard Theall, l^as . •nl''''•^^^Uticlan,lritf> 
The February Book of the 
morning m the dining rooB Thiaj, . '"sandtoli 
I ptoccpoUU-danoE'^l^ young, W^ Month; Edwin O'Connor's The 
P^ , Yankee. .^^««^J_ ^j, ^ his home—to grant favors, B like Sn.f^ ^^ alwut an •»„ L
Last Hurrah • (Atlantic-Little disputes, and simply to dis * politicafb"" '"'' «•"»" Ft^^""^ "^''^ j 4 Broivn, S4) is sure to be widely 
leader »S»f"^„^rt to «"<* '^' ^ personal charm. He speaks • just Tkl r *"'' Pwenniai t?'' Skeffi„gtJ 
read, to cause a good deal of dis-. 
numerable dinner, pic J enouin L^J?!" Miehae? <l5^y''[-«-'>o isnf cussion and argument, and— 
s^^^'if* tt^S."tt«riytodivk dances and baths, and docs ^ — .fi'^ ''><e him t^ u. V Curley bu^ „.... ,1 
what is not always the case .with 
ticularly spectacular job C SkefCngtc". the big. ^ ^ ^y . that kind of book-^to be much ticking at Knoeko Mii enjoyed. It is the stoiy of the wake—the detailed descripj political ^»"'J!„° ^ a glader last political campaign of a big which is one of the high cit y politician, i iiji_ , — j. 
of the book. And wl nephew, a voun P""y from .h 5"^'°"* Frank^Skeffington goes,^ "' '"•»eMey^b"fe^..\" ""•»« Z ^IZ'.."''
urflavored gelatin. 
lTi.pUtothatE<«:toaO»n»> 
of employer prospects that are logical 

N.D. ALUMNI CLUBHOUSE IN NYC 
Providing dining room and bar facilities, the Notre Dame Alumni Clubhouse is open five days each week from Monday through Friday at 31 East 39fh St., New York City. A room has been reserved every Thursday for Notre Dame alumni desiring to have lunch at the Club­house. Alumni living outside the greater metropolitan area are per­mitted to use Clubhouse facilities on their visits to New York upon pay­ment of $10 dues. Checks should be made payable to Notre Dame Club of New York and sent to the above address for membership cord. For further information inquiry should be directed to George Ol­vany. Secretary, ND Club of New York, also at the above address. 
Placement Office 
(Continued from page 11) 
the job for which you are qualified if you make yourself known adequately to enough properly selected employ­ers." 

Specifically, the job-seeker is recom­mended to consider these basic factors -in tile job-getting business: 
First, Analyze Yourself. Know what you want out of life, what kind of work you enjoy most, where you want to live, plus what is your background—family, educational, work and otherwise. 
Secondly, Analyze Fields of U'orfc, general and specific, in relation to your 
SAGINAW VALLEY—Father Glenn T. Boarnian, C.S.C. of Notre Dame, receives a $1,000 check for the ND Foundation from Thomas J. Carroll, alunmi club president, as part of the Communion Breakfast meet­ing at St. Matthew Church, Zilwaukee, Mich. The money came from profits of an excursion to South Bend in 1954 for the ND-Michigan State football game. 
self-analysis. Check directories. Talk to people, especially relatives, friends, and friends of friends. Make up a list for you. Remember that an intervietv is a must in all job-getting and is the cni-K of job-getting. 

Thirdly, Lay Out a Job Campaign, combining the analysis noted above, put together a comprehensive, skill­fully-done personal resume. Get a supply of recent pictures of yourself. Prepare some good letters and utilize both the U. S. Mail and personal calls and a combination of the t\vo. 
Incidentally, letter writing is the most effective way to get yourself an interview. One hundred sent out at a time should bring in 6 percent inter­views, or the letter should be changed. Always address the letter to the presi­dent of the company. If he is in­terested in you, he will soon see that someone interviews you. 
Your personal interview then gets you the job. Seventy-five percent in an interview is on your personality. Twen­ty-five per cent is on your background. Don't simply sit tight and wait for a "break." The chances are at least 10 to 1 that you'll have to make your own "break." Your Placement Bureau can be a very effective partner in creat­ing that "break" if the alumni con­tinue to keep the Bureau informed of job requests and possibilities. 
Interested alimmi are requested to register personally or by mail with the Alumni Placement, Placement Bureau, Notre Dame, Indiana. Your R^istra­tion Record will guide this office in relating job opportunities to your in­dividual background and aspirations. 
^Members of the Alunmi Board who attended the Januarj- meeting held on canipus are; (sealed, left to right) Eugene M. Kennedy, Los Angeles, Calif.; Dan Culhane, Washington, D. C; Joseph I. O'Neill, new president, Midland, Te.'tas; Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, honorary president, Pittsburgh, Pa.; J. P. Canny, Cleveland, O.; Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong. Standing (left to right): Joseph E. Whalen, Des Moines, Iowa; Father Thomas O'Donnell, C.S.C., Associate Director of the Notre Dame Foundation; Robert H. Gore, Jr., second vice-president. Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; John E. Mclntyre, first vice-president, South Bend, Ind.; Mike Layden, Evansville, Ind.; Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Ind.; and John W. Brennan, Detroit, Mich. 
posts of Speaker of the House, Majority­^Vhip and Minority Leader. An alum-' nus of Marietta College and Ohio 
State University Law School, he was named one of the ten outstanding 




Notre Dame Law School 
young men in the countr>' in 1951 by 
The Notre Dame Law School recognizes an obligation to assist its graduates to find suitable pro­fessional openings. Will you let us know whenever a desirable pro­fessional opportunity comes io your attention? Perhaps you yourself have an opening for a young law­yer. If so, we may be able to help you fill it. We'd certainly like to try. 
Address Dean Joseph O'Mearo, Law Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Law Scholarship Program 
In a recent report on the accomplish­
ments of the Notre Dame Law Asso­
ciation's scholarship program. Dean 
O'Meara said: 
"Thanks to this program, the Notre 
Dame Law School for the first time in 
its long history had some scholarships 
to offer in 1954-55. Seven members of 
the class entering in September 1954 
were awarded scholarships. They did 
well; at the end of die year, of the top 
10% of the class all but one were schol­
arship students. Yet, had it not been 
for the scholarships, not a single one of 
these men would have studied law at 
Notre Dame. This gives you a prettj' 
good illustration of the importance of 
the scholarship program. 

"The plain fact is that no law school can become great or continue great without a topnotch student body. The finest facult)' ever assembled will pro­duce indifferent results if the students are mediocre. The best of faculties needs the stimulation of keen, alert, diligent students; and the student body needs stimulation from its own ranks as well as from its instructors. In a fgreat law school the faculty and the students are constantly infecting one 
another with enthusiasm and zeal. 
"This is why a student, who has a really first-rate college record can ob­tain a scholarship at just about any of the country's leading law schools. The chances are, indeed, that he will not have to seek a scholarship; he is apt to be sought out and offered a scholarship, sometimes by several institutions. In years past we lost many unusually able students because, until 1954-55, the Law School was not in position to pro­vide any financial assistance. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
"Under the leadership of Mr. Clar­ence J. Donovan, when he was presi­dent in 1953-54, the Notre Dame Law Association responded to this challenge. It inaugurated a "scholarship program designed, when in full operation, to supply the funds necessary for 30 full tuition scholarships a year. Committees in a number of cities, particularly Chi­cago, Detroit, Cleveland and Philadel­phia, have done excellent work; and Mr. Frank J. McCarthy of \Vashing­
ton, D. C , National Scholarship Cha:i'r­man, has made a fine beginning of the difficult task of raising scholarship funds in areas where local committees are not operating. Altogether, the re­sponse has been very gratifying; and I have no doubt that the scholarship pro­gram will gather speed and momentum during the able presidency of Mr. Nor­man J. Barrj' of Chicago." 
Politics Institute 
Four prominent young lawj'ers, in­cluding the lieutenant governor of Michigan and Ohio's attorney general, participated in a Politics Institute spon­sored Ijy the Notre Dame Law School on Feb. 21st. The theme of the In­stitute was the "role and opportunity' of the young man, and particularly the young la\\7er, in political life." 
The speakers were Lieutenant Gov­ernor Philip A. Hart of Michigan; C. AVilliam O'Neill, Attorney General of Ohio; Richard J. Nelson, assistant in­dustoal relations manager. Inland Steel Co., Chicago; and Ronald ^Vebster, Jr., a Phoenix, Arizona, attorney. Hart and Nelson are Democrats while O'Neill and Webster are Republicans. 

Prior to his election as lieutenant governor in 1954, Hart served as legal advisor to Governor G. Mennen Wil­liams, United States District Attorney, District Director of the Office of Price Stabilization and Michigan Corpora­tion and Securities Commissioner. He is a graduate of Georgetown Univer­sity and the University of Michigan Law School. 
O'Neill is the youngest attorney general in Ohio's history, having been elected to that post three times. Elected to the Ohio legislature at the age of twent)'-t^vo, he served six consecutive terms and at various times held the the United States Junior Chamber of 
Commerce. 
Nelson is a former president of the!© Young Democratic Clubs of America. From 1950 to 1953 he served as an administrative assistant dealing pri­marily with legislative matters in the office of Governor Adiai Stevenson of Illinois. Earlier he was legal counsel to the Director of Labor and the Di-^ vision of Conciliation and Mediation" in the Illinois state government. Nelson holds degrees from the University of Illinois and the Northwestern Law School. 
Webster practiced law in Chicago before establishing an office in Phoeni.x in 1946. He has been active in Ari­zona politics since 1948, serving as a* member of the state legislature, state chairman of the Arizona Young Re­publican League and regional vice chairman of the Maricopa County Re­publican Central Committee. AVebster is a graduate of Williams College and the Harvard Law School. 
Moot Court Regional 
The-Notre Dame Law School was eliminated after winning two victories in the regional arguments. National Moot Court Competition, in Chicago last November 17-19. 
Ronald F. Mealey, Ridgcwood, N. J. and Edward F. Broderick, Morristown, 
N. J., representing Notre Dame, de ^ feated teams from Chicago-Kent Col­lege of Law and Northwestern Univer­sity School of Law before bowing to the team representing the University of Chicago Law School. 
The National Moot Court Competi­tion is sponsored by the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. Thi^ regional arguments were sponsored by the Illinois State Bar Association. 
Law Association Roster For the first time, the Notre Dame Law Association now has a list of all those who are eligible for membership. The number is appro.x-imately 1750^ Of these about 600 are presently mem­bers. Under the direction of President Norman J. (Jack) Barry of Chicago, a campaign is under way to enroll the balance. Compiling the list entailed an e\am­ination of ever>' name in the Martin­. (continued on page 20) 
The Notre Dame varsity wrestling team recently completed their first season. In the front row: (left to right) Buddy Day, Bob Calabrese, Capt. Terry Crowley, Bob Pivonka and Mike Gleason. In the second row: Coach Tom Fallon, Chuck Henzy, John Gavin, Jack Aniistrong and Bob Spicuzza, assistant coach. (Story on page 22.) 
Hook Re4uem 
Fundamentals of Transportation Engineering by Robert G. Hennes and Martin L Ekse. 

There have been many books written ^ n Highway and Railroad Engineering; ^hi s is the first which covers the field of transportation by highway, rail, air, and water. Because of the extended coverage, the treatment of each phase of transportation is necessarily con­densed, but the essentials are thorough­ly covered. The authors have in­corporated into this book a wealth of 
Awperience and display a concept of the modem transportation problem which emphasizes the place and im­portance, of each t>'pe. 
The principal emphasis is on eco­nomical design of each kind of trans­portation facility. Importance of good subgrade and drainage is stressed 
•hroughout—lack of these accounts for many of our present highway ills. In­fonnation and design criteria from many agencies, developed at great cost over many years, are brought together in this volume. 
Many teachers of Highway Engi­neering will say the treatment of high-
Bvays is inadequate. But it may well be that these authors are more far­sighted, and are looking into the future when all of our transportation facilities must be coordinated, and the greatest possible use made of each, in order to move the men and materials as needed in this vast country. As the book has developed to. fit a course at the Uni­versity of Washington, it may well be found to fit similar transportation courses at other Universities. 
(Ed. Note: Prof. Hennes is a Notre Dame alumnus, class of 1927, and a faculty member at U. of Washington.) 
—Walter L. Shilts, Head 
Dept. of Civil Engineering. 

Ph.D. In Economics Offered In Fall 

The degree of Doctor of Philosophy in economics will be offered by Notre Dame beginning in September, it was announced recently by Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Gradu­ate School. 
Principal area of concentration in the new doctoral program will be, for the present, in the field of industrial relations although courses also will be required in areas of economic theor)' and economic institutions. 
Director of the Industrial Relations Section within the department is Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., author of the new book: Britain Views Our In­dustrial Relations. Father Fitzgerald also is chairman of Notre Dame's an­nual Union-Management Conference and a nationally recognized arbitrator of industrial disputes. 
The doctoral program is expected to meet "a growing need" in this coun­try for economists with a Catholic background, according to Rev. Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C., economics depart­ment head. Its aim will be to cor­
relate purely secular aspects of eco­nomic theory, practice and policy ivith . sound ethical and philosophical teach­
ings. 
It is designed to prepare the student 

for research, teaching and active par­
ticipation in economic affairs. Fellow­
ships will be available on a competitive 
basb to aid graduate students enrolled 
in the progrjun. 

ND DEBATE TEAM WINS NATIONAL TOURNAMENT 
Twenty-four colleges and universi­

ties competed in the fourth annual 
University of Notre Dame National 
Invitational Debating Tournament 
which was won by the Irish debate 
team. 
Outstanding collegiate debaters 

from every section of the coimtry 
were entered in the meet for the Rev. 
William A. Bolger Memorial Trophy 
which was awarded to Notre Dame. 
Participants argued the pros and cons 
and this year's national debating topic, 
the guaranteed annual wage. 
Among the schools entered in the 

tournament were Alabama State Col­
lege for Negroes, Montgomery; Augus­
tana College, Rock Island, 111.; Boston 
University; Bradley University, Pe­
oria, 111.; Butler University, Indianap­
olis, Ind.; Case Institute of Technol­
ogy, "Cleveland, Ohio; the University 
of Chicago; Dartmouth College, Han­
over, New Hampshire; the University 
of Illinois, Chicago; Kansas State Col­
lege, Manhattan; the University of 
Kentucky, Lexington; and Loyola 
Universit)', Chicago. 
Also Millsaps College, Jackson, Miss.: Notre Dame; Purdue Univer­sity, West Lafayette, Ind.; Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala.; St. Joseph's College, Philadelphia, Pa.; St. Mary's , College, Winona, Minn.; U. S. Mili­tary Academy, West Point, N. Y.; U. 
S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.; the University of Utah, Salt Lake City; Wilkes College, "Wilkes Barre, Pa.; College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.; and Wisconsin State College, Eau Claire, Wis. 
N.D.-U.S.C. Football Programs 
A. C. Riccaidi, 371& Gmmercy Place, Los Angeles 82, Calif., is trying to com­plete 3 set of football programs from ND­USC games. He needs tbose from the following years: 1927, 1929, 1931, 1933, 1933, 1937 and 1916. Can anybody help Mr. Riccardi? 



The Annual Football Ticket Snafu * ...or...So You've Got Problems, Too? 
By Robert Caliill, '34, Ticket Manager 
We hope you've settled down to read this after a trying day at the office, the courtroom, tlie operating room, or the pool hall; for no matter how many troubles you've got, we've got more. Take a look at that 1956 schedule— ever see anything more rugged? Tough on Terr)'? He's got a pushover com­pared to the Ticket Office. If our good classmate. Athletic Director Krausc weren't such a kind soul we'd feel certain he was deliberately setting us up for the boys in the white coats. So bring on the Chlorpromazine— here's where we wade into our six­teenth year as Ticket Manager, and since nobody's come up with a better system, we'll spell ours out once again: 
1.
 Contributors to tlie Thirteenth Annual Fund in 1955 (note this YEAR-AHEAD requirement—if you have contributed in the current calen­dar year, you are all set for 1957, but NOT for '56), plus religious and honorary degree holders, are eligible for Advance Sale order forms for 1956. Graduates of Januarj' and June, 1956, will get these special forms in their first year as alumni whether or not they are contributors. 

2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20, closes July 15. 

3.
 Advance Sale order forms are good for TAVO tickets per game, are not transferable, will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is exhausted, which-ever occurs first. Using the best seats available in the alumni sections, these orders are filled according to date received. At this writing (Januar)') we plan no geo­graphical restrictions on the Alumni Advance sale. But the TWO-TICKET LIMIT will be strictly enforced (see Point 5). 

4.
 General-Use applications will be sent to ALL alumni the latter part of July, but not for all GAMES. It is al­ready evident that no public sale vnW be possible for the Michigan State and Oklahoma games, and perhaps by the close of Alumni Advance sale July 15, others on the schedule will be sold out. 


16 Noire Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
BOB CAHILL, Dispenser of Ducats 

Hence, it is already certain that the contributing alumnus can buy only two tickets for games with Michigan State and Oklahoma; and the non-contrib­utor will receive no application forms at all for those two contests. 
5.
 An alumnus who requires more than two tickets for games other than Michigan State and Oklahoma has two means of acquiring them: (a) He may utilize his Advance Sale form for two tickets and order additional seats via the General Use form which arrives the latter part of July. Using this method the seats will not be adjacent, but he's reasonably SURE of two. (b) He must waive use of his Advance form and order all his tickets on the General-Use application. This will bring him adjacent seats, but he also runs the risk of receiving none at all if the Ad­vance Sale should claim our entire ticket supply. 

6.
 General sale will open August 1. The Ticket Committee will be glad to send general public blanks to any ad­dressee as long as tickets are available. 

7.
 Alumni Clubs desiring a bloc of tickets for an excursion must file their requests with the Ticket Committee before June 20, for tentative reserva­tions. Accommodation of group re­


quests is entirely subject to the total 
Alumni Advance sale, which closes 
July 15. No definite decisions regard­
ing bloc orders can be reached until 
that time. For the same reasons, we 
wish to make it crystal-clear to all Club 
officers—seats available to Club on 
any other group orders can be only 
the least desirable of our allotment, 
or what is left after filling all individual 
orders. For most games away from 
home, bloc orders are no longer pos­
sible due to the relatively small visit­
ing team allotments. 
Dissatisfactions and complaints can be classified under two major head­ings—Quality and Quantity. There's nothing wrong with our ticket system that a 100,000-seat stadium wouldn't cure, but even then we couldn't please ever)'body. Before going any farther, though, we'd like to voice our appre­ciation to alumni as a whole for theii^ patient and understanding approach to ^vhat is probably the stickiest distribu­tion problem of its kind. Unlike most supply and demand difficulties wherein the former finally catches up with the latter by increased production, ours worsen each June with a static supply and a thousand new grads, not to men^ tion the public, poor souls, who scarce­ly get a look-in any more. So the fore­going is just about the only answer we can come up with to the alumnus who is now saying: "Bob, I've got six kids and I've just got to take the two oldest to that Oklahoma game with Dot and me. I used to study the importance oL "The Family" under Father Ray Mur­ray and it seems to me Notre Dame doesn't practice what it teaches—how come?" To squeeze in those kids for Oklahoma (or Michigan State, too) would mean eliminating a fellow alum­nus and his wife. Since we must make a decision, of course, we're making iif in favor of the alumnus over the alum­nus' kids. Guess we'll have to bring the kids to another, less popular game, as we see it. 
The other most common beef is the guy who says (watered down version) "Look, Cahill—I ordered my two 
NOTRE  DAME STADIUM  
GATCS-4  ­ 3  - 6  
GATC-e.  SAJC-&  
eATC;  reS  

?-i>^^^\^-^::}i^^:i  Alu„,„i (as required)  
Season Tickets and Facultv  
^SK^VU.„,Teo..osre,.re. ,  
University Administration  GATC-IO.  
m  student Body  19  ]  
Parents of Students  

CATl-l 

Michigan State tickets July 1 and I'm on the goal line. Now I wouldn't give a fig if they were for me, but I'm giving them to my best client and it's embarrassing. What's the idea?" Well, first of all, your Advance Sale pickets are supposed to be for your awa use. But aside from that, let's take a look at that little ol' diagram. See Sec­tions 9 and 8? About a quarter of Sec­tion 9 goes to Monogram alumni: about 1,000 of the seats in those tivo sections are renewable season tickets assigned there prior to 1942, back in Jh e days when fewer alumni bought fewer tickets. That leaves about 1,600 seats between the thirty-five and fifty yardlines available to Alumni Advance orders. We'll get about three thousand orders in the first and second days of our sale, June 20 and 21. At two tickets each, that's 6,000 seats, or more than ^he entire total (4,000) alumni seats from the goal in Section 6 to the fifty yardline in Section 9. It's to the point now where the man who waits until July is a lead-pipe cinch for seats be­hind the goalposts. So, unless your order's in our hands the morning of the first day you haven't a chance for a 
CATE-14 
prefen-cd seat. And even if it h in that early, the odds are still against you since the first day's orders are shuffled. But the point we belabor is this: You haven't got a chance at a good seat un­less your order's in the first day; and even that's no guarantee. The diagram will show you where the rest of the preferred seats go—Season Tickethold­ei-s, students. University Administra­tion, and visiting team. We now, sell 20,000 season tickets annually. When we started as Ticket Manager, our Sea­son Ticket sale totaled right around 3,000. Ah memories, memories! 
One more plaint we ought to men­tion—and this is a tough one to answer. Maybe you know (or maybe you are) the grad who ordered his two tickets in June, receives them on the five yard line, and isn't too miffed about it until he runs into Joe Neighbor at lunch at the club and Joe waves two daisys right on the fift)' in front of his face. Now Joe Neighbor is a nice guy and all that, but he never went to ND—in fact, he never did a thing for the old school. Well, you're pretty sore, and we don't blame you. But Joe maybe has a busi­ness connection—or friendship)—with 
/SATE-II 
UTC-IZ 

~airf'/3 

someone who did do a lot for ND and through sources other than the Ticket Office this connection comes up with the lovely seats. We don't exactly like it, either, but if a benefactor puts a member of the University administra­tion on the spot for a football ticket, he can't very graciously refuse Mr. Donor. We think everyone will agree, 
. too, that we can't control completely the ultimate destination of some 56,000 football tickets per game. We know an alumnus who had to change his plans a couple of days before a game and gave his tickets to a friend(?). The ne-xt day the shoe shine boy at his club offered to sell him the same two tickets at a slight premium. So things are not always what they seem, even in the ticket business, believe us. Un­less we build a bigger stadium we'll have to reconcile ourselves that we can't cram a hundred thousand bodies into 56,000 seats, so feed that into your Univac when you can't get twen­ty Oklahoma seats for those good cus­tomers next fall. We'll be sweating it out in that sound-proof booth wth SLx Distinguished Professors, waiting for the answer. 
gl^g.­







m^^mjorp. 
Indian Cardinal Receives LLB Here 
His Eminence Valerian Cardinal Gracias, 
Archbishop of Bombay, recently received an 
honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Notre 
Dame. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame president, conferred the honor on 
the Indian prelate at a special convocation in 
Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 

Cardinal Gracias, the first of his countrymen 
to be elevated to the Sacred College of Cardinals 
of the Roman Catholic Church, was cited for 
"his efforts to achieve social justice for the 
destitute of India." He was praised for "his 
great triumph as a natural leader over difiicul­
ties and hardships so immense as to stir the 
soul." 

Unesco Lecture B/ Indiana U. Prof. 
Professor Walter H. C. Laves, chairman of 
the department of government at Indiana Uni­
versity, spoke on "UNESCO, A Center of Cul­
tural Diplomacy" recently at Notre Dame. His 
lecture was one of a year-long series on "Diplo­
macy in a Changing World" sponsored by the 
University's Committee on International Re­
lations. 

Among others scheduled to speak in the 
Notre Dame international relations lecture 
series are Chester Bowles, former American 
ambassador to India, and UN Secretary General 
Dag Hammarskjold. Previous lecturers have in­
cluded K. Heinrich Knappstein, German consul 
general in Chicago; Prof. Hans Morgenthau, 
University of Chicago; and Dr. J. B. Duroselle, 
University of Sorre, France. 


Gen. LeMay Accepts Patriotism Award 
General Cturtis E. LeMay, head of the Stra­
tegic Air Command, was named recipient 
of the annual Patriotism Award of Notre Dame's 
senior CIEISS. The veteran Air Force commander 
accepted the aw£u-d and delivered the principal 
address at the University's 107th annual Wash­
ington's Birthday exercises. 

The Patriotism Award was established in 
1954 to honor "the outstanding patriot of the 
year who exemplifies the American ideals of 
justice, personal integrity and service to coun­
try." The recipient is determined by a ballot of 
Notre Dame's graduating seniors. FBI director 
J. Edgar Hoover and Bishop Fulton J. Sheen received the award in former years. 
18 Noire Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1936 


Two History Fellowships Opened 
Two graduate fellowships in history for scholars who will work xmder the direction of Rev. Philip Hughes, the noted Church historian, wiU be available for the first time in September. They will include a monthly grant-in-aid as well as tuition and fees at the University. Candi­dates must have completed at least one full year of practical training in historical method and possess a working knowledge of Latin and French or German. 
Further information about the Dr. John Lin­gard Fellowships in history may be obtained by writing Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C, Dean of the Graduate School, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

Father O'Brien On Catholic Hour 
Rev. John A. O'Brien, author in residence at Notre Dame, was the speaker on "The Catholic Hour" over the NBC Radio Network each Sun­day during February. Music on the broadcasts was provided by Notre Dame's Moreau Seminary Choir under the direction of Rev. William Mc-Auliffe, C.S.C. 
The general theme of Father O'Brien's talk was "God and Courage." His subjects included "The Conquest of Fear," "The Stairs of Ad­versity," "The Challenge of Life," and "Victory in Faith." Father O'Brien is nationally known as a convert-maker and for his writings on the subject. Recently he has been instrumental in launching Crusade for Souls in several dioceses. He is the author of numerous books and pamph­lets including "You Too Can Win Souls." 

New Holy Week Missal Available 
T}ie New Holy Week Missal, designed to help Catholic laymen understand and participate in the restored Holy Week rites recently decreed by Pope Pius Xn, has just been published by TJie Ave Maria Press. Also off the press is The Spirit of Holy Week, a pamphlet which explains to laymen the spiritual meaning and moral im­port of the Holy Week observances. 
The missal is a 180-page booklet with the complete English text for the Masses and litur­gical functions from Palm Sunday through Holy Satiirday. Included are a detailed introduction as well as a daily commentary and directions enabling any Catholic layman to take a devout pjurt mentally and spiritually in the Holy Week 
'.'«^iiiillllirn!£ 
1 •a«»inU»'^ 

Fr. Hesburgh Keynotes Nuptial Series 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., key­
noting the eighth annusil "Marriage Institute" 
in Washington Hall on the campus, declared that 
"infatuation may be the creature of a few mo­
ments and a casual relationship, but married 
love must grow slowly and steadily on the solid 
ground of mutual ideals, interests and a common 
life that brings its own rewards." 
In making "one of the most important de­cisions" in his life, a young man should consider the religion and philosophy of life of his \vife­
to-be as well as her character and personality, her family background, education and health, Father Hesburgh said. All of these factors must be weighed, he stressed, if a person is to make a "free and intelligent choice" of a life partner. 
Workshops in Writing Start June 18 
The second annual summer Workshops in Writing will be held at the University of Notre 
•Dame beginning June 18th, according to an announcement by Prof. Thomas J. Stritch, di­rector of the program and head of the depart­ment of journalism. 
The sessions are designed primarily for high school and college faculty members who teach writing, direct school publications, and produce radio and television programs. One and one-half credits for each workshop may be applied toward advanced degrees. 
The summer Workshops in Writing will be conducted by Professors Richard Sullivan and John Nims oi the Notre Dame department of English and by Thomas Stritch, James Withey and Edward Fischer of the journalism depart­ment. 
New Paintings Decorate ND Galleries 
Ten paintings have been recently acquired by the Notre Dame galleries. Two of the paintings are modern works while the others are by artists dating back as far as the 15th century. 
Donors include: Dr. M. L. Busch of Hunting­ton Park, California; Mr. and Mrs. David Find­lay of New York City; Morris I. Kaplan and his son, Stuart Kaplan, Chicago, Illinois; and Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Kilpatrick Perry of Pelham, New York. 
Medieval Scholar Authors New Book 
A boy's education in the Middle Ages in­cluded more than book learning, according to Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval In­stitute at Notre Dame. 
An authority on mediaeval education. Father Gabriel is the author of Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris, published by the University of Notre Dame Press ($6.75). The book provides intimate glimpses into the in­tellectual, liturgical, administrative and eco­nomic life of scholars in fourteenth century Paris. It also provides a wealth of material for economists, students of morals and manners, topographers of mediaeval Paris, and art his­torians. Ave Maria College, founded in 1336, provided lodging and Christian environment for students between eight and sLxteen years of age. 

ND Bond on 3000-Mile Tour 
The Notre Dame concert band, under the direction of Robert F. O'Brien, has begun re­hearsals for the annual spring concert tour, which this year will take the organization through 3,000 miles of the Mississippi Valley and Gulf Coast. 
About half of the two-week tour has been booked, according to Band President George Murray. Some of the booked and tentative cities include Memphis, St. Louis, Monroe, La., Dallas, Houston, Corpus Christi, Tex., Tulsa, Okla., and Danville, HI. 
The band wai leave the campus March 31 and return April 12. Members of the organiza­tion are especially selected from the Marching and Varsity Bands. The Concert Band has appeared in leading cities of the U.S. during the past few years. 
Britons View U. S. Labor Relations 
A cross section of leading British manage­ment and union officials attribute mature in­dustrial relations in this country in part to the high degree of autonomy enjoyed by industrial relations departments of American companies and the extensive research services operated by a number of the larger imions. 
Their findings are reported in Britain Views Our Industrial Relations, a new book by Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., associate professor of' economics at the University of Notre Dame (Univ. of Notre Dame Press, $4.25). Father Fitzgerald's book is based on the reports of sixty-seven British union-management teams which visited American industries between 1948 and 1953. The Notre Dame economist inter­viewed many of the team members in England after the American tour. 
Student Topics Polled on Campus 
The conversation of Notre Dame students most often revolves around girls, studies and sports in that order, according to a Religious Survey of Undergraduates at Notre Dame. 
The comprehensive survey, conducted by Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., prefect of religion at the University, is b2tsed on a detailed ques­tionnaire completed by 900 students, approxi­mately one-flfth of the undergraduate student body^ It reveals the religious and family back­ground of Notre Dame's students and provides an insight into their moral, intellectual and social life. 
According to Father Carey, all but about 200 of Notre Dame's students during the 1954-55 school year were Catholics. Three out of every four Notre Dame men receive Holy Communion at least once a week and nesurly half the student body are daily communiCcmts, the survey re­veals. While Notre Dame students have the opportunity of receiving Holy Communion as late as noon, 90% of those, participating in the survey approached the communion rail much earlier in the morning during Mass in their hall chapel. According to Father Carey, more than 150,000 student confessions are heard on the campus each year. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 19 


Holy Week Rites Seminar Held at N-D. For Clergy 
Monsignori and Priests Participate in Program 
Re-education and renewed participa­tion in the Holy AVeek Liturgical pro­gram by the Faithful throughout tlie countrj' is an anticipated result of die Seminar for Priests held at Notre Dame in Februar)'. 
Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, was host to 84 Mon­signori and priests from 76 dioceses who convened to study the practical application of the Holy Week Rites recently restored by the Degree of the Sacred Congregation of Rites at Rome. 
The principal objective of the semi­nar was to determine the reasons and best means and methods in carrjnng out the Holy Week changes in such a way that the Holy Fathers purpose might be realized of having a fuller and more fruitful participation of all the faithful in the Holy AVeck Rites, which embody the chief mysteries of our Re­demption. 
In tlieir study, three main objectives were followed: first, to analyze the changes made in the Rites; second, to determine their liturgical meaning arid pastoral purpose; and third, to work out ways of ensuring a proper partici­pation in these Rites by all. Four pertinent lectures, followed by organ­ized discussions were canned out to implement tliese points. 
The lecture series consisted of: Gre­gorian Chant for Restored Holy Week Rites by Rev. Benedict A. G. Ehmann, pastor of St. Mar)' of the Lake Church. \Vatkins Glen, N. Y.; Ritual Observ­ance by Rev. Frederick Richard Mc­Manus, J.C.D., Professor of Canon Law and Moral Theolog)', St. John's Seminar)', Brighton, Mass. 
Lecture on the Liturgical Meaning of the Restored Holy Week Rites by Dom Gregor)' Bainbridge, O.S.B., M,A., Melbourne University, Australia, Monk and Research Scholar in Liturg)' at Monastere Benedictin, Cheretogne, Belgium, and on the Pastoral Purpose by Right Reverend Monsignor Martin 
B. Hellriegel, pastor of Holy Cross Church, Saint Louis, Mo. 
Discussions were conducted by Right Reverend Monsignor Reynold Hillen­brand, S.T.D., pastor of Sacred Heart Church, Hubbard Woods, Illinois and Reverend John P. O'Connell, S.T.D., Saint Teresa's Church, Chicago. 
Bishop Leo A. Pursley of the Fort ^Va)'ne Diocese was present for the final day of tlie meeting. 
Speakers at Holy Week Seminar included (left to right): Rt. Rev. Msgr. Martin B. Hell­riegel, St. Louis, Mo.; Rev. Frederick R. McManus, Boston, Mass.; Dom Gregory Bainbridge, O.S.B., Belgium; Rev. Benedict A. G..Ehmann, Watkins Glen, N. Y., and Rev. Michael A. Mathis, CS.C, who ser>"ed as chairman of the sessions. 
Robert P. Leonard, '38, has been appointed Chief Supcn-isor in the Manufacturin^j| Section of duPont's Kinston, North Ca­rolina plant. Bob has worked for the duPont Company during the past 16 years. He and his wife, Beverly, have three chil­dren—Pat, 15, Eddie, 12, and Terry, 8. 
Law School News . . . 
(continued from page 14) WU 

dale-Hubbell Law Director)', which 
lists all the lawyers in the country with 
an indication of the educational back­
ground of each. The work was done 
by law students; it was financed by 
Paul F. Hellmuth, '40, managing part­
ner of Hale and Dorr, Boston, and a 
member of The Law School's Advison# 
Council. 
Any one is eligible for membership who holds a law degree and who at any time was a student at the University of Notre Dame. It is not necessar)' to have attended the Notre Dame Law School. The annual dues, including 
"subscription to the Noire Dame Law$' 
yer, are $5.00 during the first five years 
after graduation, and $10,00 thereafter. 
The first issue of the n&w Natural Law Forum, published by the Natural Law Institute under the auspices of the Notre Dame Law School, is expected to come off the press this spring. It will feature articles by Professor A. P? d'Entreves of O.Kford University, Eng­land, Professor Myres S. McDougal of the Yale Law School, Professor Vemon 
J. Bourke of St. Louis University, Mr. George W. Constable of the Baltimore, Maryland bar, and by a number of| distinguished European scholars. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
yy^{^ X % \ \ •^c^*v^nA2Av^iVv^rtrtl^^^^v 
««^yt ^ -^ 

^|;3;!tfd^ 
ND Grid Machine Set For 

Sneak Preview 
Notre Dame's 1956 football prospects will again move in for a sneak preview with the opening of spring practice on April 9 following Easter vacation in April. 
Tcny Brennan begins his third sea­son as head coach with the usual big ifs and fond hopes. The "iPs and hopes" this year rests on the perform­ances of appro.ximately 35 highly 

# 
touted freshmen who will supplement 16 monogram winners from 1955. 
Experience of returning monogram winners lies principally in three areas, halfbacks, ends and quarterbacks. Among them are included All-Amer­ican quarterback Paul Homung and his chief understudyj Larry Cooke. 
^ Halfbacks will be led by Captain-elect Jim Morse and Dean Studer, both starters, speedster Aubrey Lewis, and Dick LjTich and Bob Ward, a couple of hard-running scatbacks. 
At ends, Dick Prendergast, a soph­omore starter, along with Bob Scannell and Paul Schramm, return for another 
- season. Sophomores Bob Gaydos and 
" Gene Hedrick are the lettermen guards, while Lou Loncaric will attempt to take over the highly-regarded center spot vacated by Jim Mense. The tackle slot was almost completely riddled witli the loss of Seniors Capt. Ray Lemek, Wayne Edmonds and George Nicula. 
_ A 190-pound sophomore, Ed Sullivan, 
* b the only letterman returnee. As usual among the freshman pros­pects, a host of new names, faces and unknown quality will be discovered, but at least one member will be in most observers eyes. Bronko Nagurski, Jr., son of the Bronko of Minnesota fame, 9 will be competing among several very fine frosh and reserve tackles for a first string spot in the ND line. Also somewhat in the "freshman category," again, at Notre Dame will be Jack Zilly, former star end of the 
Irish, who has been appointed end coach replacing Johnny Druze. Druze 


After Easter 
took over the head coaching position at Marquette University in February. 
Spring practice consists of 20 prac­tice days over an approximate five week span culminated by the Old-Timers' Game in May. 

OUTLOOK BRIGHT IN OUTDOOR TRACK 
Coach Ale-x AVilson can look for\vard to the Notre Dame Outdoor Track sea­son, with one of the finest group of in­dividual and team performers since re­turning to his alma mater as head coach six seasons ago. 
Tops among the Irish cinder stars are Seniors Bemie Allard, high jump 

Coach Ale.v Wilson discusses prospects of 
and high hurdles. Bill Squires, mile and Sophomore Aubrey Lewis, sprinter. Allard holds both the indoor and out­door ND high jump mark with a leap of 6'8" in last years NCAA Champion­ships. Squires, Team Co-Capt., is the mile king with times of 4:10.7 indoor and 4:14.2 outdoor. Lewis, monogram halfback, is a decathlon ace excelling in the dashes, low hurdles and broad jump. 
Team members who will add both balance and points to the Notre Dame prospects are Co-Captain Alex Pestri­chella, and Joe Foreman, dashes; Al Porter, half mile, Dick DiCamillo, a sophomore two-miler; Jack Cote, pole vault, and Byron Beams, shot put. 
The season's schedule beginning with the Kansas Relays is as follows: 
Apr. 21 27-28 May 5 
12 16 19 25-26 June 9 
16-17 
 the outdoor 
Kansas Relays Drake or Penn Relays Michigan State at East Lansing Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Indiana State Meet at ND Marquette at Milwaukee i.CJVJVJV.A. Central Collegiate Con­ference at Milwaukee NCAA Championships at Berkeley, Calif. 
 track season with this year's 

co-captains, Bill Squires (left), star miler, and Alex Pestridiella, dash man. 
Irish Winter Review And Spring Preview 
Baseball Good If Pitchers Produce 

Baseball will get rolling next month with its annual southern trip during the Easter \^acation. This year, Jake Kline's diamond artists will compete in the Florida State University Invita­tional Tournament at Tallahassee. 
.^long with Notre Dame and the host team, competing squads will consist of Wisconsin, Illinois, West Virginia. North Carolina and Brown University (replacing North Carolina on the third day of the tournament). 
Notre Dame's baseball potential for '56 rests largely on the experience of last year's sophomore's. Pitching is ex­pected to be the weakest link with the loss of two top flingers. However, John Hammet and Elmer Kohorst, a second-year batter)- team of '55, aided by a number of hopeful reser\-es, should prove to be both capable and fomiid­able in maintaining ND's mound chores. 
Kline expects greater improvement in hitting and defense through the ex­perience picked up by last year's voimg squad. 
Golfers Favor Optimism 
Optimism will ke\Tiote Rev. George 

L. Holderith's 24th season as Notre Dame Golf Coach, the longest coaching span under the Golden Dome. 
^Vith five out of seven monogram winners rctimiing and a group of very talented sophomore candidates ready for varsity play, Father Holdcrith is looking for a strong improvement on last year's 5-5 record. 
.Although the two top men, Co-Cap­tains Bob Filipiak and John Foley grad­uated, Leo Matt, new captain-elect and top sophomores Joe Grace and Tom Garside are expected to take up the slack without too much difficulty. In Father Holderith's tenure as links men­tor. Notre Dame has compiled a record of 143 victories, 55 losses and 11 ties. 
22 Noire Dame Alumnus, Afarch-April, 1956 
Aubrey High; Ccgers Low 

U'ith the exception of several scor­ing records set by Center Lloyd Aubrey and the second consecutive Sugar Bowl Championship. the Notre Dame Basketball team rounded out its poor­est season since 1925 when they finished undci- the .500 mark with a 9 won, 15 lost record. 
Aubrey, a 6-5 hook-shot artist from St. Louis, had his overhead specialty working with precision as he set three scoring marks against Butler at the Notre Dame g)-mnasium on Jan. 4. 
Lloyd set the individual point record in a single game with 43 points: most field goals in one game with 16 and the most points in the Notre Dame gymnasium. 
In the Sugar Bowl Tournament at New Orleans, the Fightin' Irish re­mained true to their moniker success­fully defending their title witli stunning upset victoiies over Alabama and Utah, two of the nation's top-ranked teams. The scores: Notre Dame 86, .Alabama 80; Notre Dame 70, Utah 65. 
Notre Dame is the only team to win the Tournament twice in a row. 
Wrestlers Uphold Prestige 

Wrestling, a sport new to Notre Dame varsity competition this year, demonstrated strong promise in main­taining the same high regard shown by the Irish in all spoils. 
Tom Fallon completed his first sea­son as mat coach on the winning ledger and indications are that the predomi­nately junior and sophomore team of this season will reach even greater heights ne.xt year. 
Only two seniors will be lost from the squad and its ace perfoniier, Capt. Terence Crowley, best of the 147 ]]ound class will be back in '57 along with seven other first string matmen. 
Fallon, an .Astoria, N. Y. native, is a '42 Notre Dame graduate. He took his masters and doctorate degrees from Columbia and was appointed to the ND Physical Education Department in 1951. 
Top to bottom: .Aubrey, center; Capt. Elect Smyth, forward; McCarthy, forward; Wei-man, guard; Devine, guard. 
yi 
Tennis Team Rebuilding 
Notre Dame's tennis team lost a great doubles combination in Capt. Maur>' Reidy and Wally Clarke and a four-monogram winner in Bill Reale from last year's squad, and according to Coach Charlie Sampson, the team is in process of "another rebuilding year" with a group of four returnees —all juniors. 
Included in this quartet are Capt. Harry Smith, Jim Rich, Dean Rich­ards, and Tom Guilfoile. Of the more promising sophomore additions arc Coach Waller Lan^ford and one of his ace *pupils/ National Chuck Vanoncini, Jerry Budzeiek, John F.pec Champion Don Tadrowski. 

Metz and Tony Gonzales. 

Last year's squad chalked up a 10-8 State, Xavier of Cincinnati and Miami record bringing Sampson's two-year ND FENCERS SUCCESSFUL of Ohio. won-lost mark to 17-13. The all-time The squad also sent representatives Notre Dame tennis record for 33 sea­DURING CURRENT SEASON to the North Central Invitational at sons of competition shows 166 victories, 
Napeiville, Illinois. 106 defeats and three ties. The Notre Dame fencing squad, 
Interest and activity in the Club has 

whicli over the years has rivaled the expanded considerably this year and active with the Club with about 14 I records set by the more publicized the attaining of varsity status is not a retained for the traveling squad. Top football teams at N.D., completed remote possibility. .'\ decision in this performers have been Senior Mike 
another line season. 

regard is expected to be forthcoming Reagan, a free style artist, who in­
Coached by Walter Langford and by campus officials sometime dining cidentally will be the only loss this year, captained by Don Tadrowski, NC.\A the year. and Ed Healy, a top-notch diving Epee Champion, the Irish fencers pos­.-\bout two dozen members have been specialist. sessed both balance and depth in main­taining their jjrestige as one of the 
Three iiieiiibers of the Xotre Dame Swinmiing Club, one of the most active non-\*arsity I finest st[uads in the midwest. 
sports at the University, receive instructions from Coach Gil Burdick. 
Hacking this up was Tadrowski's winning eflort in the NCA.»\ Ejjee in '5.T, the fii"st from the midwest to win a fencing title in the NCAA champion­shijJs. His 33-7 mark of the same year also stands as an Irish record. 
.'\long with Tadrowski, Epee stand­
, ouls included Senior John Urogan and Junior Denis Hemmerle. Outstanding in the Sabre were Seniors Dave Friskc. Hob Eichelnian and Jcny Isaacs and in the Foil, the squad was bolstered bv Bill Fox, Jack Fricl and Julio Viz­carrondo, all seniors. Notre Dame's all-time fencing record stands at 141 victories against 39 defeats. 
Swimmers Rapidly Rising To Varsity Team Sfafus 
Swimming, a sport rapidly rising in 
^ populaiity thougli still in tlic "Club stage" at Notre Dame, had more than a fair share of success in its first season of outside competition. 
Coached by Pliy-Ed swimming in­structor Gil Burdick, the team held scheduled meets ^vitli local squads representing Loyola, Chicago; Ball 

DiteCt0rtf a 

 Clubs and Their Presidents' 
ARIZONA—PAofni.v—Eusene .\. HoKchfcr, 6303 Wichita—Georve A. Sdiwarz, '25, 302 Orphcum 
N. 13th St., Phoenix, .Vriz. BIdg. Turion—Kenneth J. Bayly, '30, 306 Fiber BIdg., 
KENTUCKY—Joseph P. Harmon, '23, 1203 Falcon Tucson, .\riz. 
Dr., Louis\*ille, Ky. ARK.\XSAS—Fori 5m;//i—lohn Murphy, '28. P.O. 
LOUISLANA—Jrl-La-TM—Robert A. Roy, '27, 509 Box 457, Fort Smith, .-Vrk. 
Market St., Shrcveport, La. 

CALIFORNIA—Crn/ro/—Harold A. Bair. '29, 2430 Xezv Or/ffliu—Peter L. Hilbert, '30, 12IG Calhoun Tulare St.. Fresno, Calif. St., New Orleans, La. Los AnrtUs—George R. -Meeker, '40, 11236 E. 
MARYLASD—Balllmare — William W. Harlman, Live Oalc .Ave., Arcadia, Calif. 
'42, 1643 Northbournc, Baltimore, Md. 

Korthrrn—Richard S. Ames, '45. 816 Thornllill Dr. Colonia. Calif. MASSACHUSETTS—Borton — William M. Healy, Son Dltgo—Gerard R. Bill, 4436 Marlborough Jr., '44, 136 State St., Boston, Mass. 
Ave., San Diego, Calif. Pioneer Valley—Arthur L. Demen, *35, 17 Gil­lette Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
COLOR-\DO—Dcn-cr-Dr. J. Philip Clarke, '44. 
1956 Hudson St.. Denver. Colo. MICHIGAN—Ba((l<T Cr«A—Robert Breska, '43, Rt. Southern Colo.—A. Jack Tliomas, '49, 3222 Rex 1, Box 151, Battle Creek, Mich. St., Pueblo, Colo. Berrien County—Dc. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. 
St. Joe. Niles, Midi. 

CONNECTICUT—Connfc/iVu/ T'oZ/cv—.Arthur Mc-Blue Water CijtriVt-William L. Wlson, '42, Gec, '31, 204 High St., Wallingford, Conn. 
4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Michigan. 
yaupatuck—Walter M. Manit, '49, 454 Oak Ave.. 
Central—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow, Cheshire, Conn. 
Lansing. 
Xeiv Haven—^Joseph P. Burns, '34. 8 Vineyard Dearborn—^Jerrv- Wayno, '47, 21935 Wildwood, Rd.. North Haven. Conn. 
Dearborn. .Mich. 
Southicestern—Dr. Vincent Goniian, '45, 5490 Or/roi/—.Arthur D. Cronin. Jr., '36, 2632 Buhl 
Main St., Trumbull, Conn. 

BIdg.. Detroit, Mich. DELAWARE—Charles A. Wolfe. Jr., 312 Holly Oak f/inl—Robert J. Sibibk-v, '42. 2302 Mountain Rd., Gwinhurst, Wilmington 3, Del. .Ave., Flint, Mich. Grand Rapids and M'estern Michigan—E. Joseph 
DICTRICr OF COLUMBIA—Hou-ard J. Schellen­berg, Jr.. '41, 1025 Connecticut Ave. NW, Suite 
Moore, '38, 48 W. Fulton St.. Grand Rapids, 511, Washington, D. C. 
Mich. f/ioao/Afl/anrf-Raymond H. Ebli, '42, P.O. Box FLORID.A—C<rn(roI—Rov B. Laughlin, '48, 2626 163, Escanaba. Mich. 

Norfolk Rd., Orlando, Fb . Iron Range—Kahert T. O'Calbghan, '45, 633 Fori Lauderdale—John C. Sulliran, '31, P.O. Box McLcon Ave., Ironwood. 41?, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. yofIjon—Blair McGo>ran, "43, HOG W. Washing­
Greater Miami—Michael Zorovidi, '44, 405 N.E. ton, Jackson. 
99th St., Nfiami, Fla. /folomoioo—Arthur Mulholland, Jr., '37, 218 North f/orWd-Richard H. Brodeur, '50, 4538 Monroe St. Ramona St., Jacksonville, Fla. Monroe—Charles S. Golden, '48, 3 East Second St. Petrrsburg-Tainpa—Roy J. Dceb, '48, 1400 St., Monroe. Mich. I5tli St. No., St. Petersburg. Fla. Muskegon—Richard L. Mason, '44, 1651 Wood, 
GEORGIA—.4//anl<i — Paul W. Smith, '45, 526 
Muskegon. Mich. Meadow Lane, Decatur, Ga. 
Saginaw VuHo^Thomas J. Carroll, '41, 808 N. Birney St., Bay City, Mich. IDAHO—Francis Neiuel, '23, 9 Mesa Dr., Boise, Idaho. 
MINNESOTA—flu/ulA-Supfrior— William E. Cot­Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 581, 
ter, Jr., '41, 114 Laurie St., Duluth. Idaho Falls. Idaho. 
Tivin Cities—John ]. Contidly, '33, 200 .Amherst St., St. Paul 5, Minn. 

ILLINOIS—.4uri.rii—Theodore West,' '27, 939 W. 
Lake Street, Aurora, III. MISSISSIPPI—James Dougherty, '49, 917 Arling­Central Illinois—Edy,-3rd G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. 
ton, Jackson, Miss. Walnut St., Springfield, 111. 
MISSOURI—Koiuoi C.l}-—(Mo. and Kans.)—Rus­
CAicngo—Joseph McCabe, '33, 632 Forest .\\-e.. . 
sell Farrell. '48, 1006 Grand Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 
River Forest, III. 
St. ioun—Donald A. Doheny, '46, 6235 South-Eastern H/.noii-Leslie Hahnc. '49, 1909 Oak St., 
wood, St. Louis, Mo. 

Dam-ille. 111. /olicl-Walter J. Voitik, '49, 15 Ivy St., Joliet. III. NEW JERSEY—Dr. Philip M. ProAsicro, '30, 413 Kankakee Valley—Maynard R. Btssonnette, '53. Caldwell Dr., WyaofT, N. J. 640 Beckman Drive, Kankakee, III. South Jersey—Frank E. Vittori, '49, 1346 Brown­Peoria—lir. Cbrencc V. Ward, Jr., "44. 5827 ing, Camden, N. J. Prospect Rd., Peoria, III. RofA/ord—Frank Sweeney. '19, Faust Hotel, 618 
NEW MEXICO—Louis C. Lujan, '24, 10<M Simms BIdg., Albuquerque, N. M. 
E. Sute St., Rockford, III. Rock Rher ro/fo^Robcrt XfcDonnclI, '44, 412 

NEW Y'ORK-Ba^flfo—John P. Shine, '48, 693 W. 11th St.. Sterling, III. 
Moore .Ave.. Kenmore, N. Y. 
Southern Cook County—^John G. Zarante, '48. 
Capital Dlstrict~C. F. Regan. Jr.. '27. 1592 New­295 Crescent Dr., Chicago Heights, III. 
Scotland Rd., Box 158. Slingerbnds, N. Y. 

INDIANA-^a/umct fli"i/rir(—Tom ClifTord. '49, Central—Dr. Thomas E. Snyder, '47, 206 West 713 Harrison St., Gary, Ind. .Ave. E., Syracuse, N. Y. Eastern Indiana—H. R. DcVault, '32, 812 Marsh. Golden Circle—George F. Fitzgerald, '25, 719 Muncie, Ind. Main St., Olean, N. Y. Elkhart—Alphonse J. Spahn, '48, 2623 Cassopolis .Mid-Hudson Valley—Joseph A. Rorick, '42, 27 Rd., Elkhart, Ind. Monell A\'e., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. El'ansiille—Edward E. Matthews, '40, 1215 Green­Moheeivk Valley—^Anlhonv J. Giruzzi, '36, 201 field Rd., Evansville, Ind. Post Office BIdg., Utica, 1\. Y. Fort Ifoynr-J. Thomas O'Reilly, '44, 335 W. New York City—^Anthony F. Earley, Jr., *47. c/o Sherwood Terrace. Leslie and Co., 1430 Broadway, New York, N. Y. Indlanatiolis—^John C. O'Connor, '40, I50G Morris jYort/irrn—Joseph R. Brandy, '21, St. Lawrence Plan BIdg., Indianapolis. Broadcasting Corp.. Ogdcnsburg, N. Y. Michigan ClIy^Br. Robert J. Frost, '40, 817 Rochrsler—.\\ Roche, "31, 706 Terminal BIdg., Pine St., Michigan City, Ind. Rochester, N. Y, St. Joseph I'oHo'—Robert Lehman, '44, 214 Peash-Schenectady—Dr. John B. Phillips, '37, 873 way. South Bend, led. Wright Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Terre Houtc—Raymond J. Kearns, '22, 1642 S. Triple Cities—Ceorse J.' Haines, '42, 126 Laurel Fifth St., Terre Haute, Ind. .Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. Wabash I'oH/-)'—Raj-mond E. Swanson, '31. 900 
West Main St.. Crawfordsvillc, Ind. NORTH CAROLINA—Ccrolfno-Robert H. Perci­val, '48, 1717 Garden Terrace, Charlotte, N. C. 
IOWA—DM .WO;>I«—Louis F. Kurtz, '43, 4200 Har­
wood Dr., Des Moines 12, low^. OHIO—;Hron—Willbra J. O'Neil, '43, 331 Green­Dubuiiur-Louh Rhomberg, '31, 1820 Delhi St., wood Ave., Akron 20, Ohio. Dubuque. Canton—Louis L. Singer, '48, 2743 Clevebnd, Trl-Cities (Davenport, Rock IsUnd, Moline. E. N.W., Canton, Ohio. Molinc)—George W. VanderVcnnct, '32, 722-23 Cinrinno/i-Robert McCalTerty, '43, 1031 E. Rook-
Union Arcade BIdg., Davenport, Iowa. wood Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio. KANSAS—Easlerit Kansas—Francis DeBacker, 2218 Cfcre/anrf—Creighton E. Miller, '44, 2733 E. 
Wilmington Ct., Topcka, Kansas. Overlook Rd., Cleixbnd Heights, Ohio. ;Jo/;nii—Robert A. McAulifTe, '36, 1307 Court Co/umiuj-John R, Murphy, '28. Rm. 620 Hunt­Place, Salina, Kansas. ington Bank BIdg., Columbus, Ohio. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
Dayton—Leo J. Condron, '49. 65 Patty Lou Road. Dayton 9, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan. '41, 744 Main St.. Hamilton. Ohio Valley^-Rmseil B. Rickus, '34, 123 Gamble Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky—Mired A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 1101 W. ic$ Jefferson St., Sandusky, Ohio. ^ To/erfo—William O. Murlagh, '49, 2910 Ever­green, Toledo. Ohio. Youngstown-R. GrifT Allen, '44, 2230 Burma Drive, Youngstown, Ohio. 

OKLAHOMA—OWoAomo &"/}•—Charles McFarbnd. '39, Rt. 10, Box 300, Oklahoma City. Okb. Tulsa—Leo P. Facan, *32. Bradcn Steel Corp., 
P.O. Box 1229, Tilsa, Okb. 

OREGON—Willbm Meagher, '48, 4020 S.E. Oak St., Portbnd, Ore. . ^ 
PENNSYLV;\NIA—Cen/rof Pennsyliania — Stephen 
J. Conway, *37, 316 Locust St., Johnstown, Pa. £n«—Richard Daley, '53, 358 Short St., Erie, Pa. i/orriilrare—John W. Davis, '32, 3513 River Dr., Harrisburg, Pa. 
Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone. *4I, 401 Market St., Browiis\-ilIe, Pa. Philadellthia—VrM'a.m G. Burns, '40, 264 Ithan Ave.. Villano%-a, Pa. Pittsburgh—EsxrX Brieger, '31, 1536 Beediwood Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. Scranton—^John A. Kramer, '45, 1703 Delaware St., Dunmore, Pa. , ^ irM-M-flnrr/'—John C. Brady, .M.D., '36, 228 "_-' Horton St., Wilkes-Barre. Pa. Williamsporl—Harry J. Krimm, '28, 1215 Walnut Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE 1SL,\ND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— James E. Murphy, '49, 41 Washington St., ^Var­ren, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—CAoHonoosa-Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4004 Wiley Ave. Memphis—^Joseph Signiago. '48, 945 Colonial Rd., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS—DflffoJ—Joseph Haggar, Jr., '45, 6903 Mer-^ rilec Lane, Dallas, Texas. ( J El folo—Richard S. Smith, '37, 4311 Hastings St., El Paso, Te.\as. Woiulon—Donald F. O'Brien, '42, 900 Lovett Boulcx-ard, Houston 6, Texas. San Antonio—^A. Thomas Royer, '50, 519 Camden St., San Antonio. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns BIdg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINLA-Frank A. Crovo, Jr., '51, 3230 Edge­wood Ave., Richmond. rWraoter-Philip L. Russo, '49, 7314 Hampton Blvd., Apt. 2-B, Norfolk, Va. ^ 
(•y 

WASHINGTON-^otane—Robert Rotchford, '49, 
S. 1720 Upper Terrace Rd., Spokane 4, Wash. ir«(«rn—Charles LaCugna, '45, 906 20th .Ave. No., Seattle 2, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Vincent J. Reishman, '34, 4200 Staunton Ave. S.E.. Charleston. W. Va. Cen/rnf-John D . Juliaji, '40,- 656 Mulbern' Ave., Clarksburg, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN—FOA: Riier I'oHo^Richard A. Stack, '48, 1306 W. Cedar St., Appleton, Wis. Green Bay—Jade A. Vainisi, '50, 349 S. Washing­ton St., Green Bay, Wis. . * LaCrojK—William F. Dvorak, '43, 1602 Mississippi ' * St., LaCrosse, Wis. .Wlwaukee—IUv W. Dwycr. Jr., '48, 3316 W. Wis­consin Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. Northwest—C. T. Downs, '33, 710^4 Fifth Ave., Eau Claire, Wis. South C^n/ro/-Maurice, Leahy, '39, 4114 Meyers Ave., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—^James M. Spent^r, '47, 914 Blaine, Radne, Wis. 
HAWAII—Thomas W'. Flynn, '35, 3317 Opih! St., Honolulu, Hawaii. 
FOREIGN CLUBS: (j t Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, E^t Pakistan. .Manila—Enrique Brias, *37. c/ o Roxas y Com­pania, Soriano BIdg., Manila, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DcLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—^William J. Sheridan, *34, Box 66, An-con. Canal Zone. Peru—Andres Mabtesta, '23, Cailloma 376, Lima, Peru, South America. Puerto fiiVo—Paul F. McManus, '34. (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 
4 Baltimore 
Club events in review over tlie last Sew months— 
Wc were most fortunate to be included in the group of cities that carried the closed circuit tele­casts of three of the Notre Dame football games this past Fall. It proved to be a most convenient, yet exciting and enjoyable way to \vatch ND perform on the gridiron. The winner of the Iowa game autographed football was none other than BILL JACOBS, the Chairman of the Steering Committee that organized and guided our club through its first 

Jfc year, I946-I947. Bill had been away from these 
" parts for many years and just returned a few months ago- He now resides with his family in Frederick, Mar\*land. It was a pleasure to xvelcome Bill back. 
For the national telecast of the ND-Michigan State game, we joined forces ^vith members of the local Michigan State Alumni Club id a private room at Munders Restaurant. A color television set was obtained by Veep DAS O'COXNELL, M9, and GENE O'BRIEN, '35, courtesy of Bcndlx Radio of Towson, Md. It was quite a lively affair, enjoyed by both sides. 
T^vo nights before Thanksgiving wc sponsored a 

* Foundation night at the Vagabond Theater. The show "Reclining Figure'* featured our actor-mem­ber, FILVNK HOCHREITER, '35, who in addition to playing the part of the crooked art dealer, di­rected the show. Hoch, as usual, turned out to be the leading ticket peddler and we were able to clear $160 for the Foundation. 
Universal ND Communion Sunday was again celebrated at Loyola College, our seventh consecu­tive year on the campus. This year wc were hon­ord to have the Reverend Vincent F. Beatty, S.J., newly inaugurated President of Loyola College, as our guest speaker. Just three weeks earlier. Father 
^Beatty had been the guest of Notre Dame on the 
^campus for the dedication of tlie new Pangborn Hall. His talk was inspiring to the 51 .members and their families who were present. 
—^VILLLV^I \V. H/VRTMAN, Prcs. 

Boston 
A resume of club events during past months— 

It's late to go back to something which took place in June, but not too much has been said here about our family picnic and the generosity of a member and his family. Tltis annual outing is mu­
^illy U'ell attended and enjoyed by the members perhaps because it's one occasion on which the whole family can get out and into some Notre Dame atmosphere. Last Junc^ as in the year previous, wc were at the Millis farm of CHrVRLEV CROWLEV. Charley and his wife very generously-opened their home and grounds to the club. With . all the good friends, softball games, hot dogs; in short, the fun we had, it was tliat ideal spot thac made it. We owe Charley a great deal of thanks for his kindness as well as physical efTort, for it did require a lot of work on his part. 
^ In September the club invited the new freshmen 
" n the area to have dinner with us, before leaving for school, to get acquainted with the alumni and the club and thereby somewhat with Notre Dame. A friend of president BILL HEALY, '44, Father Connelly from St. Bernard's parish in Concord, was the speaker, following Bill's welcome to the boys. BOB LYNCH, *49, brought along some ex­cellent color slides of the campus and tliey, along witli a ver>* good running commentary by him, gave the bo>*s a glimpse into canipus life. 
The annual Communion Breakfast, Dec 11, will ^ e remembered as a particular highh'ght of this ^•ear. LOU DI GIOV^\NNI, '49, did a real job 
as chairman of the committee, assisted by PAUL SULHV/\N, '49, and DICK HYL/\ND, '50, as well as numerous others who waged a telephone campaign to promote a good attendance. Lou's choice as speaker was Father Francis Anderson of the Jesuit Order, currently Director of Jesuit Mis­sions in New England. Father Anderson has spent considerable time in the Far East during which period he served as Secretary* to the Papal Legate in Cairo and was one of the founding faculties of the Jesuit College in Bagdad. 
Our thanks to the Boston Club on campus for their invitation and for a fine evening at their Christmas Formal in Boston, Dec. 28. 
EDWARD W. "MOOSE" KR.\USE, adiletic director at the University of Notre Dame, was hailed by Holy Cross direclor Gene Flynn as "the father of modem basketball at Holy Cross" at a testimonial dinner presented by the Boston Alumni Club of Notre Dame at the Harx-ard Club. 
Flynn recalled how Krausc came to Holy Cross in 1939 as an assbtant football coach and per­suaded the college's officials to reinstate basketball whicli had been dropped a number of years before. He went on to relate the success Holy Cross hoop teams have enjoyed and cited the NCAA and NIT championships. 
JOHN McL.\UGHLlN was master of ceremonies. Head table speakers included WILLLVM J. HE/\LY, president of the Notre Dame Club ot Boston; JOHN T. BURKE, chairman of the dinner committee; JOHN V. MOR^\N, treasurer; Eddie Powers, vice president of the Boston Garden; Ned Irbh, basketball director of Madison Square Gar­den; Bill Mokray, basketball director of Boston Garden; the Rev. John Begley, Providence College atlilctic director; and Px\UL NEVILLE of the South Bend Tribune. 
Buffalo 
On the night of Nov. 28 the city of Buffalo had its biggest snow storm in 20 years and the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo held its first annual Sports Night at the Knights of Columbus. Three hundred and fifty people braved the storm to hear "MOOSE" KR/VUSE, JACK Lx\NDRY, RALPH GUGLIEL.MI, JOE HEAP, and "2EKE" O'CON­NOR talk about football. Many of the 350 never returned home that night, they had to spend the night in downto\>-n hotels. (Ed. Note: Man, what a meeting!!). Our honored guests not only know how to play football, they know how to talk. 
Before main speaker '*ifoosc" Krausc took the floor, the Buffalo Club presented a trophy to Canisius High School and DeSales High School, co-champions of the Western New York Catholic High School Football League. 

Here arc a few sidelights on the Sports Night which Avere set up by the snowstorm. Joe Heap 
' and Ralph Guglielmi had to call their managers for an extra day off from practice with the New York Giants and Washington Redskins respectively. "Zcke" O'Connor drove down alone from Toronto after BILL EARLEY and VINCE SCOTT had to cancel out at the last minute. *^Zeke" had to spend the night at the Sheraton with "^foose" et al. **Moose" Krausc and Jack Landry resigned themselves to fate and had a good time forgetting the Southern Cal game. "Taps" Gallagher, noted basketball coach of Niagara University, drove as far as Sisters Hospital before he was marooned in the snow. He called in from there and ex­pressed his regret that he was unable to be present. Taps' call was one of many that came in with the same message. Bill Mazer, Toastmaster and local .sportscaster, and Ralph Guglielmi put on a 15­minute radio broadcast by means of a telephone interview before dinner although they were separ­ated by five miles of snarled traffic and snow. 
Chairman JACK LA VIGNE and TONY ROC­CO, his Publicity Chairman, did one of the finest jobs we have ever seen. The entire committee per­formed a tremendous task in a short time: Co-Chairman, NICK WILLETT; Tickets, JIM CLAUSS and JERRY TERHAAR; Program, TOM KELLY and JOHN FANNING. 
Vice President CY RICKARD and JOE DUNN were co-chairmen for the annual Communion breakfast. We had the SRO sign out which is good testimony of their fine work. Mass was cele­brated in Blessed Sacrament Chapel at 9:00 a.m. Breakfast followed immediately at the Hotel Sher­aton. State Senator Earl Br>-dges, Chairman of the New York Commission on Public Education, was the speaker. He had just returned from the White House Conference on Education and his talk concerned facts which the newspapers did not re­port. 
Cy Rickard arranged a puppet show to entertain the children while Senator Brydges spoke. The mothers who escorted their children to parlor *'A" for the show never returned which proves what a success the puppet show attained. This will be an annual affair for the children from now on. 
PAUL WENDELL, '48, was ordained by Bishop Burke at Lancaster, N. Y., on Nov. 9. Wc were saddened to hear that Paul's mother died during the Christmas holida>-s. 
Our Retreat chairman and Past President, MAURY QUINTJ, lost his mother through death 
DENVER—Dr. Phil Clarke, president of the Denver Notre Danie Club (second from right) presents the Knute Rocknc Trophy, symbol of the state Catholic high school football supremacy, to Joe Pannunzio, Co-captain of Pueblo Catholic High (left). Guests at the ceremony ^vere Paul Homunj, Notre Dame AII-American quarterback, (second from left) and Bishop Willgung of the Pueblo Diocese. Pueblo High officially retired the trophy by winning the football title for the third consecutive time. 
BUFFALO—Joe Heap, former Notre Dame halfback and currently with the New York Giants of the NFL (standing) was one of several ;N D gridiron guests at the CIub*s first annual Sports Night. The occasion was the presentation of the Buffalo Club's football trophy to Canisius and DeSales High Schools, co-champions of the Western New York Catholic High School Football League. (Seated at the head table are Msgr. McGuire; Ralph Gugliclmi, former Irish All-Amcrican quarterback and currently of the Washington Redskins; Jack Shine, Bill Mazer, master of ceremonies; Dick Stedman, and Ed Krausc, N D Athletic Director, main speaker of the evening. 
on Cbristmas Eve. This gave us many sober 
thoughts during an otherwise happy holiday season. 
JOE RYAX*S energetic leadership in promoting tlic RafHc in November was rewarded by a net profit of $1306. We owe our thanks to Joe, for his efforts will permit a substantial deposit to our Scliolarshtp Fund. Tlie Buffalo Club is helping send a boy through Notre Dame now and, in Sep­tember, 1956. \vc will send another boy there. RALPH ELSE'S Scholarship Committee has sent letters to over GO High School principals in getting this year's progranx started. 

JACK BOLASD w-as the Chairnion of a cock­tail party on Novxmber 18 during which the Raffle was held. It was well attended and it was held at the Hotel Sheraton. The management had to put up more tables to accommodate an over­flow crowd. 
Our Christmas Dance under the Chairmanship of DICK and Marv- LEOUS was the finest wc have ever held. Approximately 200 couples filled the Statlcr's main ballroom and cvcr>'body had a wonderful evening. TTie Buffalo Club's Past Presi­dents were the honored guests. The Campus Club gives this dance their wholehearted support cver>* year and wc owe tliem a vole of tlianks for their work in selling tickets and in helping with the decorations. It would be a much smaller affair without them. The proceeds of the dance are divided evenly between the Campus Club, the Alumwivcs and the .-Uumni Club. 
—PAUL J. ALL\VEIN, Secy. 

Calumet District 
The Calumet District's annual sports stag dinner was held on February 14 with DON SCHAEFER, Notre Dame's All-Amcrican fullback, as guest speaker. The 1955 Notre Dame football monc was also shown and the annual business meeting. was conducted. 
New officers elected at tlie Sports Night dinner event are: TOM CLIFFORD, president; AVIL­LIAM O'CONNOR, Wce-presidcnt; AUSTIN BOYLE, secretary; CHARLES COHN, treasurer. Directors incHide: JACK OGREN, ERNIE HUFF­MAN and JIM MORRISON. 
Don Schacfcr, Notre Dame's All-Amcrican full­back, was guest speaker at the Sports Night dinner which was co-chairmanned by TOM CLIFFORD 
K:Vi.-/ ..•-i**.'^"^!i.Vii;.i»)iJi-;li; ^ L?^'iv: Vif"^-«'&."-!.-^^?-«««I> J!?* 
and ERNIE HUFFMAN. Ernie also ser\ed as toastmaster for the e\'cning. In addition to Scliae­fer, brief talks were given bv Jack Gilroy and JOHN CACKLEY of the Alumni Office staff. Two films, the 1953 Football Highlights and a special movie depicting plays from Navy and Northwestern games in the mid-'30's, were part of the enter­tainment. 
Central New York 
At an early fall meeting, new officers were elected. They are THOMAS E. SNYDER, M.li., president; THEODORE E. DEMMERLE; vice-president; JOHN F. ZIEL, • regional vice-president; EDMUND P. CLEARY, sccrctar-.treasurcr; REV. JOHN HARRISON, Chaplain, 
The annual Communion Breakfast on December 11 was again made a family affair. The club re­ceived Communion in a body at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, and the breakfast was held at Drumh"n's Countr>' Club. The guest speak­er was Father Walsh Murray, S.J., who came to LeMo\'ne College from the west coast last sum­mer. JACK McAULIFFE handled the arrange­ments for the affair. One of the high spots of tfie breakfast was the presentation of a yotre Dame banner to the club by the Ladies' Auxiliary. Tlic presentation to Dr. Snyder was made by Mrs. EDWIN \\\ KENEFAKE, president of the Auxil­iary. As was started last vear, members brought toys to be sent to Fatlier JAMES A. DONNELLY, C.S.C., '36, St. Mary's Mexican Mission, Lampasas, Te-xas. 

Tlie annual Winter Ball was held at Bellcx-uc Country Club on December 28 and was well-at-­tended by students, alumni and friends. For the students the arrangements were handled by Arthur Connor, Ronald Monsour, John Har\cy and Giro Tantillo. The alumni committee was TOM SNY­DER and PHIL KELLEY. 
In the fall the Ladies' AuxUIarj* held a very successful card party. Mrs. EUGENE W. DALY, JR. and Mrs. THEODORE E. DEMMERLE acted as co-chairmen. Even though the weather was nasty, a good crowd turned out to make this first big afi'air of the Auxiliar>-a success. Tlic gen­erous support of club members and friends was most heartening. 
—ED CLEARY, *43, Secy. 

:^'*'X,.'L'^'.i:»Ai'>»^^-i!^:^-'^ji^^^^'^^ 
Central West Virginia ­
The Notre Dame Club of Central ^Vest \'irginja has been organized with the following elected as temporarj* officers: JOHN JULIAN, president; JAMES ALLEN, vice-president; W.\LT SCHR^\­DER, secretary-; /\NDY SLEIGH, SR., treasurer. 
The Club meets for dinner on the second Monday of each month at the Stonewall Jackson Hotel, in Clarksburg, at 7 p.m. Charter members of the Club Include: JOE and a\M AUCREMANNE, FRANK WELCH, MARCUS FERRELL, JEROME ^ MALFREGEOT, GUY BRADLEY, BILL FLYNN; T JOHN JULL\N, all of Clarksburg; JIM ALLEN, ^fannington; FRANK WHELxVN, HAROLD TOM­.\SCHKO, JOHN MALLOY, GENE EDWARDS, WALT SCHR.\DER, TOM FEENEY and ANDY SLEIGH, SR., all of Weston. Alumni living within a radius of 60 miles of Clarksburg are invited to join the organization. 
During the Christmas season we sponsored a party which Included non-alumni triettds, parents and high schoolers as special guests. FATHER JOHN WALSH, C.S.C., was scheduled to be prin­cipal speaker from the campus, and Quartcrbacl|'^ PAUL HORNUNG was slated to come up froni"^ Louisville, but bad flying weather caused a can­cellation of their plans. 
—ANDY SLEIGH, SR. 

Chicago 
Sometimes when a man tries to wear two hats he gets caught In the rain without either. That's ivhat's happened in this case. In addition to writ'^^^ ing the class column for 1933 your humble scr\*an\^ suddenly realized the night before the .\LUMNUS deadline that he had also to supply a column in re tlic doings of the Chicago club. 
The scholarship "Informal,** ably chairmanncd by FRANK MILLIGAN, our second \-ice president, was highly successful. We named It the Dlllcr-a-Dollar (Aid a Needy Scholar) informal to catch the attention of the dub and point up the fact that the proceeds are going to be used in so far as possible to s%vell the club Scholarship Founda­tion. The president of the Scholarship Foundation, TOM BEACOM, lent his efforts as vice-chairman^ 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
of the dance. It was his suggestion and that of ^ the other members of the Foundation that in ^V addition to the dance wc conduct a drive for dona­
tions to the Foundation among selected members of the club. 
I'd like to pay credit now where credit Is so richly due: Co Frank ^filh'gan and all the other friends and club members who worked so hard to make the dance a success. Tlicy include FRED JOYCE, JR., who has with his dad (also a X.D. man) the Conrad Hilton account; TOM BROG/\N is another in the pubh'c relations field who gave 

.^ freely of his energies to put over the dance. And 
^ while I'm at it I'd like also to pay sincere tribute lo the many wives of club members who somewhere found the strength and cncrg>' to attend a publicity tea Wc staged the day after Xew Years Jn the Sheraton-Blackstone to get publicity. BILL KEN­NEDY, who is to be mentioned again at greater 
\ length later, is another who put his shoulder to 
the wheel I'n turning out the invitations (and they were striking ones), program and tickets in record time. Tlianks to the board of directors, who lined up their friends to attend. To one and all —those I've mentioned and those I've forgotten— 

^ TILWKS A MILLION! 
Club members should have by the time they read this received their 195G club directories in the mail. Here is where another great vote of thanks must be ofTered—this lime to BILL KENNEDY alone. Bill lias done a terrific job In producing wJiat is to my mind the most attractive directory the club ever had. Early in the class year we decided to s^vitch publishers and this was an additional hard­ship. His loyalty to Notre Dame and the club dcsen'c our deepest thanks. 
A third event of note, and one which we mcn-

Jm tioncd in advance the last time out, has gone off most successfully—the Annual Communion Break­fast. Here is another case of a great debt owed to a chainnan who worked hard to achieve suc­cess—PHIL FACCENDA. FATHER GENE BURKE, C.S.C, whom most of you will remember with great afTection, came Tip from N.D. and gave a tremendous speech. 
The year is all downhill now, men—I hope and pray we can pick up speed and finish winners. It has been a good year—no staggering sums of money made but all the events have been on a fiigh plane and %ve hope enjoyable. Speaking for 

j L myself—at least it's been fun! —JOE McaVBE, Pres. 
Cincinnati 
RICHARD A'HE/\RN was general chairman of the club's tenth annual Scholarship Ball held on December 27 in the Nethcrland PJaza. Committee chairmen working with Dick include HARRY J. GILLIGx\N, JR., patrons; JAMES J. BARTLETT and PAUL J. SCHWETSCHENxVU, reservations: GER/\LD R. MAHON, invitations; and THOM^VS 
^CilSTELLINI, student representative on campus. 
Cleveland 
On October 7th, 6(X) alumni and friends wit­nessed the closed circuit telecast of the Notre Dome-Miami game at the Cleveland Hotel. This particular event was scJieduIed as a club activity last year, and as you can see, it was a great suc­cess. The Iowa and Naw games were also televised at the Cleveland Hotel and were very well attended. 
November 10 was the date of the Scliolarship Raffle with an all expenses paid trip for two to the Notre Dame-Iowa game at the University. This year's successful event was "under the co-chairmanship of BOB O'MALLEY, '50, and BOB DOWD. '41. The winner was STxVN COFALL, M7 with PAT aVNNY, '28, selling the winning chance and receiWng two tickets to the game. 
TIic annual Family Communion Breakfast on De­cember II, was under the chairmanship of FRAN­CIS PA\'NE, "39, who did a fine job. The Mass was at St, Jolm's Cathedral and the breakfast at the Hollenden Hotel. This year's guest speaker was our own KARL MARTERSTECK, '29, whose fine talk was enjoyed by all. 
The main ballroom of the Statlcr Hotel was the site of this year's Christmas formal dance, held on December 30. Some 600 alumni, students and their friends enjoyed a wonderful evening, thanks lo the great job done bv co-chairman JIM UPRICHARD, '33, and ART a\REY» '35, They wish to thank all the students who attended, for their coopera­tion in making this year's dance one of our most successful ones. 
—ART WOOD, Sec>-­
Columbus 
TIic club's annual Mass and Communion Break­fast took place on December II. Most Rev, MicIiacI J. Ready, Bishop of Columbus, offered the Mass at St. Joseph's Cathedral. We all appre­ciated his fine remarks about Notre Dame whicli were made from the pulpit during the Mass. REV\ JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., from the cam­pus, spoke at the breakfast held later at the Deshler-Hilton Hotel. His talk was very well re­ceived and We want to thank him again for visiting us. At the breakfast, the club presented Father Walsh with §600 to take back to the University for the Notre Dame Foundation. Chairman of the committee that organized this well-attended Notre Dame Communion Sunday activity was DR. HENRY HUGHES. 
The club's 5ocial event of the season was the annual Christmas Dance held on December 27 at the Deshler-Hilton. Well over 100 couples attended, and none could help but enjoy the evening. BOB POISSON headed the committee that made all the arrangements. Invaluable aid was given by the students home on vacation. John Dodd and Com­pany dcserxe special thanks for their entertain­ment during the Intermission. 
The club wants to take this opportunity to pub­licly thank AL EICHE.\Li\UB for ail the time 

CALUMET DISTRICT—Ali-AiHcrican Don Schacfcr was guest speaker at the club's annual Sports Night event. Lch to right: John Cackley, Alunini Office representative; Tom Clifford. newly elected president; Ernie Huffman, chairman and retiring club secretary; Schaefcr; and Chuck Cohn, new secretarj-. 
and hard work that he devoted to make the Na\-y Football Special such a complete success. —LARRV STEMBER/'Secy. 
Connecticut Volley 
On Sunday, December II, the Club held its An­nual Communion Breakfast as members attended 9 o'clock Mass at St, Patrick's Church and had breakfast at the Statler in Hartford at 10. Thomas 
J. Dodd, U. S. representative of the Fn3t district, was the principal speaker. Mr. Dodd, a member of the house committee on foreign affairs and sub­committees on inter-American affairs and national security, gave a very interesting and thought-pro­voking talk on some of the impressions he has re­ceived from his travels abroad. FATHER CARL SCHERER, Club Chaplain, also attended, and President ART XfcGEE presided. FRANK AHERN and BILL ^VAELDNER did a s\vell job in staging such a successful affair. 
Several of us attended a Christm:is dance on December 28 given by the Nutmeg Club, a newly formed undergraduate club. The boys held a dance at the Chase Country Club In Waterbury and did a bang-up job. Young and old alike enjoyed themselves. 
^Vc regret to announce that VIN TURLEV passed away since the last issue of the ALUMNUS u-as printed. Club member? gathered at the wale, and recited the Rosary in a body. 
—LOU BERGERON, Secy. 
Dollos 
To the never-ending list of Texas brags, please add the fine spirit with which the Notre Dame Club of Dallas conducts Its activities .and associa­tions. . . . It's a rootin', tootin' group of Notre Dame men, from all walks of life, who are ahvays cookin' up something for the good of the school, the club and the community. . . . Another suc­cessful Communion Supper was held December II at the new and magnificent Christ the King Church. Seventy-five attended and heard Dr. F, Kenneth Brasted, first president of the now a-building Uni­versity of Dallas, speak on "Catholic Education." The University whidi will open its doors next Sep­tember Is the first 4-ycar Catholic college in the Dallas-Fort Worth Diocese. . . . With its usual color and flare, the club's traditional Annual Christmas Dance went over with a big bang both socially and financially. It was held on December 28 at the Brook Hollow Country Club with about 200 couples dancing and tripping the light fan­tastic. . . , The profits \vlll be contributed to the club's Scholarship Fund which incidentally will send another worthy high school graduate to the campus next fall. Neal Lamping, recipient of the club's first full scholarship, is doing admirably as a physics major in the College of Science. . . . The big topic of conversation Is Notre Dame's opening game with Southern Methodist here in Dallas come next football season. . . . Although no definite plans have been set, plenty of good, hard thinking Is going on. . , . The Club offers sincere con­gratulations to ED HAGGAR on his election to the national Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. .. . If past events cast their shadow . . . then .big things are In store for those who attend this game next September. The new Dallas Statlcr Hilton hotel will make attendance at tlie ND-SMU game just that much more con­venient and pleasurable. . . . You might note the absence of individual names in this report . . . per­haps that's because the Notre Dame Club of Dallas functions as a solid group . . . not just a few stal­warts. . . , S.M.-\RT IDEA—put the ND-S.MU Football Game in Dallas in Your Early Fall '56 Plans! . .. Until then . . . good luck! 
—BUDDY GOLDM.AN, '36 
Deorborn 
Tlic Dearborn Club had a busy fall season be­ginning with a good representation at the Miami game via closed circuit TV at the Sheraton-Cadillac The next two big events were the ND-State game at East Lansing and the Navy game at Notre Dame. The Club ran two busses to Notre Dame and a wonderful time was enjoyed by all. DICK KING was in charge of the affairs connected with the State game while the COURTNEYS, JOHN W. (father) and JOHN E. (son), teamed up on direc­tion of the Navy trip. 
The Club IS currcttily engaged in a scries of mid-winter activities with a general meeting featur­ing Notre Dame Football movies and the animal 

'^l 

FORT IVAYNE—Bishop Leo A. Purslcy «as the guest speaker at the Club's annual Com­munion Breakfast, Club ofHcials present include (left to right) James McCarron, committee member of event; Tom O'Reilly, club president and Norb Schcnkel, event chairman. 
Dinnrr Dance w^ich was held at llie Detroit Yacht 
Club. ROBERT J. SULLIVAN was chairman of 
the dance, —CLE.\I COXSTANTINF. 
Denver 
The Scholarslup Fund raffle committee, under the chairmanship of WILLIAM MAHONEY, suc­cessfully raised $1466 (net) from ticket sales. 
Tlic annual Denver Notre Dame Club Christmas dance was bcJd this year on December 29th at tlie *'To\v-n House," Aurora, Colorado, with 300 at­tending. TJie main purpose of this acti\'ity is to bring tlie students now attending Xotrc Dame into a club function prior to their graduation In order that thvy may take an active part In club activities upon graduation. Thb annual affair was started in 1952. The committee included A. L. DOWDS, LEO J. ROBIDOUX and TOM GARGAN, clialr­man. 
The Knute Rocknc trophy, symbol of the state Catliolic high school football championship and sponsored by the Denver Notre Dame Club, was awarded to Pueblo Catholic High Scliool by DR. PHIL CLARKE, club president, at the school's annual grid banquet. Paul Hornung was the guest speaker for the occasion. Pueblo High won permanent possession of the trophy after capturing the state title for the third time. 
—TOM G.VRGAN, Publicity Chairman 

Detroit 
The club, in conjunction with the University of Detroit's Metropolitan Club, sponsored a cocktail-buffet party prior to the basketball game between Notre Dame and the University of Detroit. Special guests Included Father Cclestin Stciner, S.J., presi­dent of the University of Detroit, ED KRAUSE, and Ray Knoll, athletic director at Detroit. 
The club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 11. DAN HENRY and JERRY SARB were in charge of the affair. Mass was celebrated at St. AloysJus Church and breakfast was held in the Veterans Building. FATHER ^VIL­LIAM T. MORRISON, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame faculty, gave a brief talk at the breakfast. The Most Rev. John A. Dona\-an, Bishop of Detroit, said the ^fass and gave the sermon. 
The club's annual Christmas dance was held on December 28 at the Latin Quarter. DAN BRAD­LEY and TIM CRUICE >verc in cliargc of tickets. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 

Evansville 
On Saturday, January 7, the Notre Dame Club of E\-ans\ille held its fifth annual Post Holiday Party at the Kokies. A cocktail hour was held followed by a buffet dinner and dance. 
For this party members are permitted to bring guests and the attendance this year was about 135 people. Out-of-town members included JIM Mc-QUAID of \^nccnncs, JOHN HENNEBERGER of Mt. Cannel, 111., and FRANCIS HENNEBERGER of Princeton, Ind. 
—DON HALLER, Secj-. 

Flint 
The Notre Dame Club of Flint, in conjunction with the Michigan State alumni club arranged a stag at the Sons of Italy Club on Dec 1, 1953. Mr. Robert Tolc of the Michigan State Alumni office, provided and narrated the pictures of tlic Notre Dame-MIcIiigan State game. Needless to say the outcome was enjoyed more by the alumni of Micliigan State than it was by the Notre Dame .A.Iumni. There were 45 members of the Notre Dame Club in attendance and 90 members of the Michigan State alumni, making a total of 133. It v*"as discussed at this meeting as to the possi­bility_ of running an excursion from Flint to the Michigan State-Notre Dame game in 1936. Tlicy all felt that the atmosphere of tlils game Is some­thing more tlian that of the ordinary football game, being one of strongly competitive but friendly rivals. Refreslimcnts were ser\'ed and cards were enjoyed for the balance of the evening. In charge of arrangements for the Notre Dame Club was ROBERT SIBILSKY and TED MAN­YAK. 
The second annual Mass and Holy Communion for tltc Notre Dame Club of Flint took place December 18th at St. Matthew's Church at 8:00 
a.m. SLxty-four members were In attendance. Ar­rangements were made by DR. JOSEPH MACK­SOOD who introduced Rev. Joseph O'Connor, As­sistant Pastor of St. Matthcw*s Church. When Fatficr O^'Connor spoke, lie mentioned that the name of Notre Dame meant a symbol to the people in the East. Also that it meant a symbol of Vic­tor>', not only on the football field but also a Catholic \-ictor>* of Faith. He mentioned to the members that they should be proud of having had the opportunity to go to Notre Dame. 
The officers elected for the year 1936 who took office January I were as follows: President, ROB­
ERT J. SIBILSKY; Wce-presIdcnt, WILLIAM 
MINARDO; second Wee-president, DR. DAN SHEERxVN; secretary-treasurer, FRED MAN-1 SOUR; directors. AL FUHRM.\N, EUGENE a\MPANALE, DON MacDONALD, TED MAN­YAK, and DR. JOSEPH MACKSOOD, 
A motion was made at the meeting by JAMES PEARSON that the Notre Dame Club of Flint send the hundred dollar profit that w*as made from the Notre Dame-SMU excursion to the Notre Dame Foundation. Motion was carried. 
—T. J. M.VNYAK 

DON MacDONALD of the Class of *31 and his ^ son Donald, Jr., of the Class of *58, held open house at their splendidly appointed home on De­cember 26tli. Don invited all the Notre Dame Club members, also the students who attend Notre Dame from this area and their parents. It was a fine way to get the t^vo groups togctlier, and with sucJi a genial host ci'crytliing went off very smooth­ly. He has a very line recreation room in his basement and the walls were all decorated with headlines of the Notre Dame victories for 1933. -Approximately 40 people attended, and ever>*body felt that it U'as good to get together with the younger boys. It was planned that possibly an­^) other get-together at Easter time, when the stu­dents are home, in the nature of a dinner-dance, would be a nice thing. 
—FRED M.ANSOUR, Scc>-.-Trcas. 

 Fort Lauderdale 
We held our regular monthly meeting on January 12, 1956, which was an open meeting with our I wives in attendance. This meeting, held at the -^ Governor's Club Hotel, was the last under the ver>- *'-'' able direction of our outgoing president, BOB GORE, JR. We held our annual election of offi­cers as a result of which JOHN SULLIVAN, Class of 1931, Is the new president, GEORGE ERNST is vice-president, BOB GORE, JR., '31, is the new Treasurer, and DICK WH/\LEN, Class of *42, is secretary*. The following Honorarj' Offi­cers for the year 1956 were also elected: President, WILLARD MOSS; Wcc-presidcnt, GEORGE Mc-FADDEN; treasurer, BILL MAUS; and secretary, BOB DICKEY. 
We were ver\- pleased to have as guests Mr. ^ and Mrs. CILVRLIE HAYES, Class of '39, of Park *J Ridge, Illinois, and GEORGE WITTERIED. '21, of Chicago. Strictly speaking, BERT ERKINS cannot be classified as a guest, since he is a mem­ber of the Fort Lauderdale Club, but inasmuch as he divides his time between Jacksonville, Wyoming and Fort Lauderdale, It is a bit of an occasion to have him at our meetings. 
Last year this club sponsored a tremendously successful Notre Dame State Convention at the Sea Ranch Hotel in Lauderdale by-the-sea. We arc happy to announce that the second annual No­tre Dame State Convention will be held at the ^^ same place on April 20th, 21st and 22nd of this'-V year. 
—RICHARD T. ^VHALEN, Secy. 

Fort Wayne 
On October 18 the Fort Wayne Club held a football smoker in Centlivre Brewer\-'s Social Room. There were about 40 rnembers present who en­joyed the beer donated by the brcwer\' and com­ments on the 1935 Fighting Irish football team by/<«. Hilliard Gates, sports commentator and sports^ / director for WKJG-TV in Fort Wayne. Ever>'one present was ver>- pleasantlv surprised by the ap­pearance of .ED "MOOSE" KR/\USE, who was in Fort Wayne on a speaking engagement and came to our meeting later and brought everyone up to date on the football, academic and social accomplishments at Notre Dame. 
In November, JOE aVSASAN'TA and RAY GANZ were in cliargc of a football smoker that featured a 1954 Football Highlights film. Again, we were grateful to the Centlivre Brcwer\' for the ^ use of their Social Room and the consumption of*: '' the product. 
On Sunday, December 18, the Fort Wayne Club held its Annual Communion Breakfast with NORB SCHENKEL ser\*ing as dialrman. Msgr. Dapp said a Mass in the Cathedral which was offered for deceased members of the club. Immediately following, a.. Communion Breakfast was held at the Kcenan Hotel where Bishop Purslcy «as the speaker and all 65 members present enjoyed the affair very much. 
On the evening of December 28 the Fort Wayne 
Club and on-campus students cutnbincd efforts on ^a successful Christmas dance. DINXY KE^VRNS " co-cliairmanncd the affair for the club and TOM 
GRIMMER was the on-campus chairman. 
—BOB KLINGENBERGER, Secj-. 
Harrisburg 
With the blessing of Bishop George L. Leech the Harrisburg Club gathered, on December 4th. %vith tlieir wives and progeny for their annual Communion at St. Afargaret Afar>''s Church in 

^Pcnbrook. REVEREND FRANCIS A. KIRCH­
WNER , our cliaplain, offered tlic Mass for our deceased members. Breakfast followed in the school cafeteria for the 67 present, including 25 children who Were presented with X.D. mementos—medals for the boys and prayer hooks for the girls. Ar­rangements were in cliarge of BILL O'CONNOR and CY WIGGINS. 
Since the occasion coincided with Founder's Day for Villa Vianncy, the new Diocesan home for aged priests. President JOHN DAVIS presented Father Kirchner with a $40.00 check to choose 

-j^something for the home in the name of the Club. V ^^'e regret losing JOHN J. KLISE who has been transferred to Cleveland. 
E. CARL G\MO, '53, has moved to York to become associated with an architectural firm. His new address: 2021 W. Philadelphia Street, York, Pa. 
—J. R. GR.\HAM, '26, Secy. 
Hawaii 
The members of the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii gathered at the St. Louis College Alumni Club­house in Honolulu on November 26 to bear the 

^}roadcast of the N.D.-U.S.C. football game. A buffet lunch was served and enjoyed by the members. 
Tlie Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was held by the members of the Hawaii Club on December 11 with a High Mass at the St. Louis College Chapel. The Mass was sung by the choir of the Brothers of Mar>-. VAL CHUN, Class of 1955, scr\-cd the Mass. Breakfast and a short business meeting followed. 
—HARRY A. MEDEIROS, Secj-. 
^Houston 
Tlic club's annual Universal Communion Sunday was held on December 11. Mass was celebrated at Sc. Ann's Church and breakfast took place in the Briar Club. Guest speaker was Rev. L. J. Lacey, 
C.S.B. Chairman of tlie affair was BOB DROLET. 
Indianapolis 
FATHER ANTHONY L.VUCK, C.S.C., repre­sented the University at the club's annual Com­munion Breakfast event held on December II. Mass was celebrated in Blessed Sacrament Chapel in the 

JKathedral and breakfast took place at the I. U. Medical Center's new Union Building. Honored 'guest was Archbishop Paul C. Schulte. JIM &VR­SON was chairman of the affair. 
Kansas Cify 
Activities of the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City have been continuous for the past three months, starting on Svptember I2th with our annual Freshman Send-Off Dinner which was held at Milleman's Restaurant on the Country* Club 
JPlaza, Kansas City, and chairmanned by EDWARD 
"vYLW.ARD, Club Vice President. John Massman, Student President of the Kansas City Campus Club, gave an orientation talk to the 21 new students present along with 70 alumni and students which made a grand crowd and good turnout. C. CRxVIG WHITAKER Introduced and formally presented Terrcncc Harligan, our Scholarship Fund winner, to alumni. BOB METZLER talked on our foot­ball trip for the October 29th Notre Dame-Navy game. 
Our annual football trip was once again a fine &UCCCS5. This year «c took approximately 250 "lumni and friends from the Kansas City area. 
The enthusiasm was so high on this trip for the Oklahoma game next year that with help on the arrangements from the University, our Kansas City Club is planning on sending two trains to this game next year. Our annual Notre Dame Club RafHc for the benefit of our Scholarship Fund was another grand success and was won by Mr. .'Ed '. Sayers of Prairie Village, Kansas, who, along ^vith his wife, enjoyed the trip very much. 
Our annual Alumnt Communion Breakfast was held early this year on November 27th' at St. 
Teresa's College with approximately 50 alumni and guests present. This event had as its chairman, JACK F0\VELL. Mass was said and a very in­spiring talk was given bv the Club Chaplain, FATHER VINCENT KE.\RNEY. 
Our Notre Dame Club received a very kind invitation to participate in a Club Luncheon on November 30th with the Iowa .-\Iumni to view tlie lowa-Notrc Dame football Films. This is one of the largest turnouts of any club luncheon this year with over 100 alumni and friends attending. 
About 323 alumni and students attended a re­ception and dinner-dance at the Hotel President on December 26. It was the largest crowd in the four-year history- of the event. The proceeds esti­mated to be approximately $500 will go to the AV'illiam Rockhill ?ieUon Scholarship Fund. This scliolarship was established to aid Greater Kansas City students to attend Notre Dame and provides $400 a year for four vears at the Univcrsltv. BERNARD FINUCVNE was chairman of the din­ner-dance. 
—ROBERT MGRO, Scc>-. 
La Crosse 
We had a turnout of approximately 140 couples at the annual dance on December 28th. Alumni attcndins included ROBERT F. BARTL, WIL-. LIA.M F. DVOR/VK, A. P. FUNK, JR., FRED­ERICK R. FUNK, AUGUST GR,1.MS, JOHN W. HJVCKNER, JR., ROBERT P. HACKNER, DON­.\LD MURPHY, WILLIAM MURPHY, ROBERT P.UJESKY, JOHN R,\U, FREDERICK REI.NLVN, a\R L SCHAETTLE, DO.N'ALD SEIGER, DR. JOHN SI.MONES, DO.VALD WELCH, GILES H.\CKNER, STEPHEN PAVEL^V, JOE BECKER, DAVE HYDE, RICHARD PE.ARSE, JOE MUR­PHY and GER:\LD HEBERLEIN. 
HENRY FUNK, vice-president of the club, was the general chairman of the dance. Other activi­ties of the year included two Communion break­fasts and a Universal Notre Dame Night smoker and a business meeting. 
—J. D. BECKER, Secy. 
Los Angeles 
The club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 11. Mass was celebrated in St. Teresa's Churcli, Alhambra, and breakfast was ser\'ed at tlic Marino House in San Marino. The Los Angeles Club staged a cocktail party for Notre Dame coaches and Sotre Dame ahimni coaching at other schools at the NCA.A Coaches Convention, held in Los Angeles during the second week of January-. 
Miami 
The annual Christmas dinner-dance was a huge success—bigger and better than ever. Vfc were privileged to have as our guests Mr. and Mn. Pat Bbceglia, Gene Kapish and Dick Fitzgerald— the boys were here for the North-South game in the Orange Bowl. I. I, PROBST, chairman of the board of directors, presented EDWARD KELLY with a beautiful gold watch. This award was given for the first time, honoring Ed as the most outstanding club president. 
The January meeting voted in the new officers and directors: MIKE ZOROVICH, president; CHARLES MAHER, first vice-president; JIM SMITH, second vice-president; DAN RO^VXANDS, secretary; ED HARLY, treasurer; ED^VARD KEL­LY, chairman of the board of directors; FRED PIOWATY, J. P, HOLLAND, PARIS COAVART, JEROME OUELETTE, GEORGE COURY and PAUL GLASS, directors. 
A few last comments on the Xotrc Dame-Miami game weekend: the club sponsored the big victory dance at the Shelboume Hotel with about 2,800 people in attendance. Outgoing president ED KELLY and incoming president MIKE ZORO­VICH deser\*e congratulations for organizing and planning the affair. Thev were ably assisted bv 
C. MAHER, C. TRICE, L L PROBST, D.AN ROWX.VNDS, ED LYONS, .M. O'NEIL, V. TUR/V­NIO, J. OUELETTE, B. H9WELL and all of the others who so capably aided in making the occasion tremendously successful. .\ thank-you party for the workers was held in DAN ROW­L/\ND'S Major Appliance "stadium" the week Following the Miami game. .-Mumni and guests enjoyed a buffet lunch and watched the TV ver­sion of the Michigan Stale-Notre Dame game. 
The Christmas party was under the co-chair­manship of BETTY KELLY and BETTY ZORO­VICH and LOIS SMITH was in charge of the charity project. It was held at the Miami Springs Villas' Executive Club on December 21 with din­ner and dancing enjoyed by alumni and guests. 
Michigan Cify 
The Micliigan City Alumni Club installed new ofKcers on January 28 as follows: DR. ROBERT 
J. FROST, president; EDWARD J. DWYER, vice-

CHICAGO—Phil Facccnda (left) congratulates Father Eugene Burke, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame Campus, following hb address to a packed' house at the 1953 Chicago Club Com­munion Breakfast. Looking on is Joe McCabc, club president. 
president; LOUIS E. BLACK, treasurer; DR. JO­
SEPH A. BERGAN", secrctar%-; board of directors 
DR. FR.\SK J. KUBIK, WALTER M. TIMM 

and immediate past-prcsidetit ROBERT N. 
SCHIEL. 
.•Mumni secretary JIM ARMSTRONG was guest 

speaker for the meeting wliich included members 
and tlieir wives. He spolic on progress at^ tlie 

Univcrsitv and accepted the club's gift of $250 to 
Xotre Dame. —JOSEPH BERGAN, Scc>-. 
Mississippi 
ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, Xotre Dame athletic director, was a guest of the Mississippi Club in early December. Moose w-as visiting Jackson pri­marllv as the guest speaker of tile Touchdown Club.' —\VILLL\M H. MILLER 
Mohawk Valley 
Our club held its annual Communion Breakfast Sunday, December 11, 1955. 
Alumni, father-* of undergraduates and friends held the breakfast in Hotel Utica after attending NIass and receiving Holy Communion in Si. John's Cliurcli here in Utica, New York-
Thc Mass was celebrated by ^fonsigno^ David Dooling, Pastor, and the sermon was delivered by Father Morrcall, assistant pastor. 
ANTHONY J. GIRUZZI, JR., gave the main talk outlining the anniversary- of the first Mass in New York Slate wliich is claimed to have been first celebrated over 300 years ago in a cite near Syracuse, N. Y., at Manlius where Jesuits cele­brated the First Mass on the Onondaga Indian rescr\'alion. 
Others in attendance were CHARLES HIT2EL­BERGER, VIN FLETCHER, R^\Y BELDEN, GEORGE HAMELINE, DRS. D. C. SHAUGH­NESSY and D. GAVAGAN of Herkimer. N. Y-. LOU CL.\RK, FRANK DONALTY and ED SWEENEY of Utica. 
The fathers in attendance were Nick KaufTman, of Little Falls. N. Y., LeRoy Nicknish, Ulica, Pat Pacstello, Herkimer, Nick Denn, Dr. A. C. Hitzclbcrger, Tom Nelson, Denny Shannon, Carrol Murphy, Joe Kolmer, Ken Murphy, Dave Du-\*er, Mike McGuirl, all of Ulica, and a friend of Mr. McGuirl, Jack Amhcrein. —ED SWEENEY, Secy. 

Naugatuck Valley 

Tile club has scheduled a meeting ever\" second Monday of each month at 8:30 p.m. at Hotel Elton, Ehon-on-the-Grecn, Waterbur>\ 
New Haven 
The alumni were in attendance at the iirst 

Christmas dance sponsored by the student campus 
club held on December 28 at the Chase Counlr>­
Club in Waterl)ur\-- An enjovablc time was had 
by all. 
JOHN ZDANOWICZ, JOE BURNS and JOE 
BENOIT represented Notre Dame at the annual 
College Advisory Day held for Catholic graduates 
at St. Acdan's Church. 
—WALTER LEE, Seo.-Trcas. 
New Jersey 
About 90 attended the Club's annual Comnmnion Breakfast on Sunday, December 11th, at St. Philip's Churcli, Clifton, New Jersey. Rev. William Corridan, &.J., famrd waterfront priest, and the Hon. John A. Matthews, prominent Catholic lay­man, addressed the gathering. Father Corridan related many experiences from his life as priest and labor expert on New York's waterfront while Judge Matthews eloquently spoke of the need for spiritual post-graduate work on the part of those leavinc the University. 
RUSSELL RILEY was toastmastcr, while BOB JOYCE served as chairman of the alTair. The group was honored to have the Most Reverend James A. ^tcNulty, Bishop of Paterson, as a guest. 
Some of those present were ELSIE R MAT­THEWS, AL BAILY, BERT BERTELLI, BILL DONAVAN, ED MOSKAL, PETE QUINN, JOHN WINBERRY, JOHN KELLY, TOM GREEN, JIM FITZSIMMONS, JOE BYRNE, JR., JOE BYRNE III. ART MULHE.\RN, DICK DERICKS, GEORGE KEENAN, DOC HAYF^, LEO COSTELLO, ED VON HOENE, DOC PROVISSIERO, ART CALLAHAN, and TOM FARRELL. —TOM FARLEY, Sccx-. 
New Mexico 

^i 
Tlic Annual Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico was held at the Desert Sands in Albuquerque following Mass celebrated by the Club's Chaplain and Alumnus, FATHER RICHARD BUTLER, at the Newman Club Chapel on the Campus of the Universilv of New Mexico. Following the breakfast, MONSIGNOR BERNARD BURNS addressed the group, bringing back many memories of the daily Notre Dame Religious Bulletins. 

Early reports from LOU LUJAN, Club Prcsi-, dent and Chairman of the Universal Notre Dame-Jf Night Observance, indicate that a line program is being slated for tins year's Obser\-ancc including a feature speaker from the Notre Dame Campus. Wc hope the members from all corners of the Land of Enchantment will be able to attend. 
—WILLIAM P. HARVEY, Secy. 
New York City 

New officers are as follows: ANTHONY F.^ EARLEY, president: JOHN DUFFY, executive vlcc"^ president; JOHN A. HO^T, JR., vice president; JOHN J. MARTIN, vice president; AUGUSTINE 
S. HARDART, JR., vice president; JOHN C. BURNS, vice president: GEORGE OLVANY, sec­retary*; JOHN R. MURPHY, assistant secretary-; ROBERT REJ\LE , treasurer; AL LESMEZ, assist­ant treasurer. 

"BUD" MULVEY chairmanned the trip to the Pennsylvania game last November and did a tre­mendous job in promoting and organizing a ver>* successful afternoon for some 325 people. "Bud" will be the first to admit that a guy namec^V Riepl darned near ruined the %vhole day before -^ it got started with his 108-yard jaunt but, thanks to the boys in green, things finally turned out Well for all concerned. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was held on December 11 here in New York and I might add, it was one of the most successful in recent years. Some 306 people attended the break­fast in the Waldorf Astoria that followed the 9 o'clock Mass in St. Patrick's Cathedral and chair­man JIM D^\'^'ER had lined up an outstanding 

->;) 
WASHINGTON, D.C.—Members of the Notre Dame Club held their annual Coinntunion Breakfast at Holy Cross College. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
program of speakers. FATHER TOM "RED" 
^ BRENXAX headed the list and happy we were to have him with us. He revived many pleasant mem­ories with his talk and it was like having a bit of the campus on Park Avenue for a little while. Our only regret was that Father Brcnnan's visit was such a short one. Jim Bishop, noted Catholic author whose great novel, '"The Day Lincoln Was Shot," lopped the best-seller lists for so long, was the second speaker of the morning. Jim, who had returned only the day before from an extensive trip to the Holy Land, recounted some of the highlights of his trip which had been made in 
^ ^ connection with research for his newest novel, *'The Day Christ Died." The final speaker on the program was Robert Kennedy, chief counsel to the McClellan Conmilttee and brother of Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts. Mr. Kennedy's most interesting and infonnativc talk covered his recent trip through Southeast Russia and was highlighted by colored slides showing the \'arIous places and pct)ples visited throughout the Soviet Union. 
Tlte members of the board and the entire club membership would like to pnhlicly congratulate ^ JOHN DUFFY for the splendid job he has done as president during the past year. As yon may know, it was during John's term of office that wc have established somewhat permanent quarters and through an agreement with the National Zeta PsI Fraternity organization the Notre Dame Club of New York has its own Club House at 31 East 39th Street, New York City. The club offers dining facilities, bar and a few overnight accommoda­tions. The New York alumni have found the luncheon facilities of the club particularly attrac­tive and visitors can always find some of the local alumni at the club during the luncheon hours. ^Incidentally, if any of the alumni throughout the 
^countr>' would care to join the club on a non­resident basis in order to make use of some of its facilities during their visits to New York and perhaps join some of their old friends for lunch or dinner, wc would be happy to give them all the information if they would just drop a line to us at the Notre Dame Club of New York, 31 East 39ih Street, New York City. We all hope we can look fonvard to hearing from you and to seeing you at the club In the near future. 
—TONY Ex\RLEY 

^North Florida 
At the regular business meeting held early in December, new officers were elected for a term of two years. Outgoing President FRED J. R^\­HAIM, '31, presided at the installation of RICH­ARD H. BRODEUR, '50, as president, WIL­LIAM L. KIRCHNER. JR., '51, vice-president, and GERALD B. JOHNSON, '30, secretar>-treas­urcr. The club also chose its new board of di­rectors, for a similar term, consisting of FRED 
H. (FRITZ) BAU.MER, '22; ROBERT W. 

COYLE, '47; LOUIS J. FINSKE, '19; JOSEPH itf^. HARTZER, '-10; J. WADE NODA, '42; and ^FRED J. R.\HAIM, '31. 
The North Florida Club was most happy to be able to donate $300.00 to the University Foundation out of an appro.ximate profit of $500.00 realized from its Special Excursion Train Trip to ^liami for the football game in October. 

Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was obser\'ed by the membership on December II, with Mass at Jacksonville's Immaculate Conception Church. Breakfast was enjoyed at the Mayport-Room of the Hotel Roosevelt, with Rev, IIarr>' 
F. Turnler, Pastor of Immaculate Conception, as the Principal speaker. Approximately 40 Foimda­tion Members. Alumni and members of their family attended. 
—WILLIA.M L. KIRCHNER, JR., Vlcc-Prcs. 
OkBahoma City 

Tlie club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 11 with Mass at Christ the King Church and breakfast at the Oklahoma City Coun­tr\' Club. Chairman for the event was BOB .\rcFARL.\ND. ED KR.\USE was principal guest at a luncheon held In December. On December 28 our annual Christmas partv was held at the home of Dr. and Mrs. AL DRESCHER. Alumni as well as students were in attendance. 
New officers recently elected Include CHARLES McFARL.\ND, president; ROD JANEWAY, vice-president; BUCKY O'CONNOR, secretar>-; and DICK HOFF, treasurer. 
—ED KAVANAUGH 
Peoria 

We held our annual Communion Breakfast on December 11th. We attended Mass and received Holy Communion at St. Mar\''s Cathedral and then had our breakfast at the Jefferson Hotel. Father Edward Purccll, assistant Diocesan Super­intendent of Schools, was our principal speaker and gave us a fine talk. JACK AMBERG was dialrman and we had a fine turnout. 
On New Year*5 Eve we had our annual Christ­mas dance at the JefTerson Hotel. It was the largest crowd %ve have ever had and was a huge success. Many of the students, along with the alumni, helped swell the crowd. DR. CLAR­ENCE WARD was chairman, assisted by GENE SLEVIN, DICK WALSH, DAS HECHT and JOHN SLEVIN, a student at the University. 
—J. J. LANGTON, Seo". 
Philadelphia 
Regular club meetings are held the sec­
ond Thursday evening of each month at 
8:30 p. m. in the Philopatrian Club, 1923 Walnut Street. 
The club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 11 with CLIFF PRODEHL as chair­man. REV. BERNARD F. .McaVFFREY, C.S.C., club chaplain, celebrated the Mass and ARCH­BISHOP JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C., delivered the sermon. BILL FISCHER, assistant football coach 

MICHIGAN CITY—New* officers were installed at election night meetini;. Left to right: Dr. Bob Frost, president; Dr. Joe Bergan, secretary; guest speaker Jim Armstrong; retiring president, Robert Schiels; Louis Blacky treasurer; and Ed Dwyer, vice-president. The club 
donated a gift of $250 to the University at the meeting. 
from Notre Dame, and Father Stephen Landherr were guest speakers. The outstanding Catholic high school football players, their coaches and athletic directors were also guests of the club. 
Events planned for the future include: Weekend Retreat on April 6; UND Night on .April 15; picnic in June; party for undergraduates In September; Navy football trip to Baltimore in November; and Communion Mass and breakfast on December 9. These events are in addition to the regularly planned meetings held on the second Thursday of each month. 
Officers and directors recently elected for the ensuing year arc as follows: WILLLVM BURNS, '40, president; \VALT GROTHAUS, JR.. '50, vice president; HAROLD DUKE, '30, secretary; JOE NOVETSKY, assistant secretar>-; and JOHN NEE­SOX, JR., '35, treasurer. Directors include JOHN VOrr, '51, TOM DE.MPSEY, CHARLES CON­LEY, '33, WALT RIDLEY, '31, JOHN DE.MP­SEY, '49, JOHN .MOORHEAD, '49. JOSEPH a\TTIE, JR., '41, Grolhaus, Burns and Necson. 
Pittsburgh 
Club events held in December and January arc as follows: 
First, we celebrated University of Notre Dame Communion Sunday by attending 9 o'clock Mass on December II, 1955, at the Diocesan Seminary of Saints Cyril and Melhodhis for the Byzantine Rite. Our host, Msgr. George Michaylo, the pres­ent rector oE the Seniinarx', was the Celebrant of the Mass, and gave us a very fine talk after break­fast. This was the second visit of our Club to the B>-zantine Seminary, having been their guests for our Communion Sunday In 1953. Fifty Notre Dame men attended Mass and the Communion Breakfast that followed, and were very much edi­fied and impressed with the beautiful ceremony. The Seminary choir entertained our group after the breakfast with \'arious selections of old country folk songs, finishing with an excellent rendition of the Notre Dame Victory March. PETE FLA­HERTY was chairman of this event and did an excellent job. Everyone left the Seminary hoping that wc would be inWted to return at some future date. 
Second, the local Club held its annual Christmas dance on Friday, December 30, 1955, at the Gateway Plaza in downtown Pittsburgh. The pro­ceeds for this dance will be added to our scholar­ship fund and we hope to have a check in the mail in the not too distant future. HUGO lACOVETTI was general chairman of the dance. JIM McNULTY was In charge of the Patron Committee. Both of these men did a tremendous job, ably assisted by Philip Crowe who is President of the Pittsburgh Club at Notre Dame. Other members of the dance committee were RUDY CRNKOVIC, PETE FL.\HERTY, CARL LINK, EMMETT GRIFFIN and EARL BRIEGER. Ever^'one enjoyed the e\'cning and was high in his praise of the committee for turning out such an excellent year-end entertainment for such a worthy cause—the Scholarship Fund. 
Tliird, the annual Notre Dame retreat started off the events of the Club for the year 1956. As usual the retreat w*as held at St. Paul's Monastery, on January 6th. 7th and 8th. GEORGE KINGS­LEY was again the promoter in charge of this annual event and was a little disappointed in the attendance, having 74 men registered for the week­end as against 82 for the year 1955. However, everyone who attended thoroughly enjoyed every minute spent at St. Paul's. Our retreat master. Father Bertin Donahue, gave some very inspiring talks and gave us all a very good start for the coming year. Father Cajetan Sullivan, Retreat Di­rector, and his Assistant, Father Pascal Smith, doing their usual excellent work, made the retreat a tremendous success. 
—GEORGE H. KINGSLEY, JR. 

Rhode Island 
The club held a reception after the Notre Dame-ProWdence College basketball game with JOE MCDONAL D as host. Matching ash trays and light­ers were presented to Coach JOHNNY JORDAN and ED KRAUSE by the Rhode Island Notre Dame Alumni Club. 
Rochester 
JOHN NOLAN was chairman of the Annual Re­treat at the Notre Dame Retreat House December 9, 10 and 11. This was the last club retreat at the House as they have to turn our time over to parish retreats. John Nolan was also chairman of the Family Communion Breakfast Sunday, De­
Dame AlumnuSy March-April, 1956
LACROSSE—"The Golden Dome'* surmounted by a statue of the patroness of Notre Dame highlighted the decorative setting of the LaCrosse Notre Dame Club's Christmas dance. Members in the above photo include Jim Kroner, Henry Funk, Don Welch, Bill Dvorak 
and Joe 

ccmbcr 11. There was a good turnout of Xotrc Dame men, tliclr wives and clilldrcn. 
The annual Christmas Dance was held Christ­mas night with JOHN F. BURKE chairman and Mrs. ARNOLD MORRISON co-d»airman repre­senting the Ladies' Auxiliary*. Arrangements were made by JOE GERAGHTY to hold the dance at Locust Hill Country Club. The door prize of two tickets for the Oklahoma game was won by LEO ^V1SBY. JACK LANDRY, former Aquinas star and present Notre Dame freshman coach, gave a brief talk. DICK and Betty Ann COR­COKAS, up from New York for Christmas, were most welcome. 
BOB SKIPWORTH spoke to a group at Holy Apostles Parish and also showed the Highlights of '52. JACK HEDGES headed up the ushers for the appearances of Bishop Sheen at the Misscrama. 
The Ladies' A«xiliar>-'s November meeting had Father Erb who directed tlic Misserama as tlieir guest speaker. The Januar>* meeting \%-a5 llicir annual Motlicr and Daughter lunclieon witli Mrs. HARRY CROWLEY as guest of honor. Mrs. PETER CON*NELLY was chairman. 
Tlic Rocliesler Club extends their s>-mpathv to CHARLES O'BRIEN and DAN BOOTH upon the passing of their fathers. 
—JACK NYE DUFFEY, Secy. 

Rockford 
FRANK S^VEENEY, manager of tlic Faust Hotel, was elected club president succeeding JOHN J. ^VAHL, JR. Other ncu- officers inchide; ROBERT DOYLE and CHARLES PAULER, ^-ice-presidents; KARL BRENNAN, secretary; and ALBERT CAR­ROLL, treasurer. Directors named are: JOHN McKINSTRA, Freeport; THONL\S KEEGAN, E. 
M. (MIKE) LORDEN and WAHL. 
The club plans a special obser\'ance program on Univcisal Notre Dame NJght. Currently the Rock­ford ND Alumni Club Js sponsoring three scholar­ship students at the University from Boone, Winne­bago and Stephenson counties. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
 Becker. 
Rome 
"SotTc Dame alumni In Rome observed tlie feast of the Immaculate Conception with the first annual N.D- Communion Breakfast held here. VERY REV. EDWARD L. HESTON, C.S.C., Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross and Rector of the Holy Cross International College, was the host. Assisting Father Heston as co-hosts were REV. BERNARD E. RANSING, C.S.C., as­sistant general, and BROTHER THEOPH.VNE SCHMITT, CS.C. Father Hcston celebrated a Solemn High Mass and preached a sermon to the alumni at the new gcneralatc. ' A real American breakfast was thoroughly enjoyed by all of those in attendance. Among those present were Mrs. Adelc Miller, widow of FRED MILLER, her daughter Kate and her sister Mrs. Kale Kanalc>*; Mrs. Bernard (Mary Dillon) Weadock, a grcat­grandniecc of Notre Dame's second president; PROF. PAUL BOSCO of Notre Dame's Modem Languages Department who is on leave from the Unii-crsity to teach English in Rome tlirough the Cultural £.\cliangc Program; Louis Bosco, nephew of Paul, who IS a member of the Notre Dame junior class and is studying this year at the Uni­versity of Rome; Alphonsc Tufano of TWA in Rome, a **subway alumnus";- and VINCENT J. McALOON, *34. The alumni club plans- to hold a UND Night meeting in the spring. 
—VINCE NIcALOON 

Saginaw Valley 
FATHER GLENN T. BOARiL\N, C.S.C.,' repr; resented the University and accepted a $1,000 gift; from the Sagina^v Valley Alumni Club in behalf of Notre Dame. Father Boarman, as -principal speaker at tlie cluh's annual Communion Break­fast, told of the current prbgram'-and future plans at the University. The Mass was held at^St. Mat­thew's Church. The gift of $1,000 came from the proceeds of an excursion sponsored jointly by the Saginaw Club and the Michigan State Club to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game in 1954 at South 
Bend. 
St. Joseph Valley 
The club again honored the Notre Dame football team ^vith a civic testimonial banquet following the close of the season. John CarmichacI, well-known Chicago sportswriter, w-as toastmaster while Stu Holcomb was principal speaker. It was Hol­comb's last "official representation" for Purdue because the next day his appointment as athletic director at Northwestern w-as announced. The cap- .^ tain's shillelagh was given to captain-elect Jim'/^ Morse by Ray Lcmck. Members of the banquet committee were JOE HANNAN, general chairman, HARRY KOEHLER, WILLIAM GIBBONS, RUDY GOEPFRICH, HERB JONES, ROBERT ROGER, JOE DOYLE, RICHARD CLEARY, JERRY HICKEY, DON FISHER and JOHN CACKLEY. 
As the ALUMNUS goes to press, plans are being made for the annual Rocknc Communion Breaks fast. President BOB LEHM/\N has appointed BOB CAHILL and JOHN CACKLEY as co-chairmen. _ Also, the club is planning an interesting Universal,^ Notre Dame Night meeting in April. 
St. Louis 
Local alumni, as well as alumni from all parts of the country were greatly saddened to learn of the death of Mrs. Catherine Weis, w-ifc of one of our most loyal and active members, DR. MATT WEIS. Mrs, Weis died from results of injuries received in an auto accident returning irom the Navy game. 
This year tlie club was honored to have as our -^ guest at our Fall meeting DR. L. H. BALDING-'^ ER, Dean of the College of Science. Dean Bal­dingcr had an opportunity to rcnciv many old acquaintances and to tell us of the physical and academic expansion of the campus during the past few years. DICK KARR and his committee of BEN GERKER and HANK DAHM handled the arrangements for this meeting that was held at the Carling Brcwcr%' Rathskeller. 
Once again our dear friend. Bishop Leo Byrne was kind enough to have us as his guests at his Parish, the Church of the Immaculata, for our annual family Communion and Breakfast. There were 118 persons in attendance. We had as our ^ guest from the Universit>-, FATHER ROLAND^ SIMONITSCH, CS.C , who gave us a very in­teresting talk on the religious program at Notre Dame. Arrangements for the Breakfast were handled by BOB BAUMAN and his committee of TOM SHIELDS and DR. BERT COUGHLIN. 
This year tlie Sheraton Hotel was the scene of our annual Christmas party and dance. Close to 400 atumni, students and their guests enjoyed an evening of dancing. The splendid cooperation of the student club with the alumni made this party a tremendous success. PHIL HIGGINS with his committee of JIM PUDLOWSKI and BOB CON­CANNON, working with the student club did ai' ^ excellent job in handling arrangements for this 
afTair. 
JIM JENNEWEIN, with his committee, BOB 

DOUGHERTY and BILL RUOFF, planned the 
Spring meeting ^ when "MOOSE KRAUSE" was 
our guest. The meeting this year w-as held at the 
Anheuser-Busch Breivcrj-. 
ROLAND DAMES is serving as our Chairman for this year's Universal Notre Dame Night. He is presently organizing his committee for this big night of the year. 
On Januarv 12, FATHER JOHN CA\'ANAUGH^ >, CS.C, and FATHER CHARLES SHEEDY, CS.C.-it w-crc entertained at an impromptu luncheon during their short stay here in St. Louis. The officers , and a few other ulumni were present at this luncheon. 
—JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR., Secy.-Trcas. 

Sallna 
New club members include JOHN GUSTANIUS, '54, from Elmhuret, III., and TOM FOOTE, *53. John is a pilot >*-ith the 40th Refueling Squadroiv N located at Smoky Hill Air Force Base in Salina!^' Tom is a news reporter' for the Salina Journal. 
GEORGE COLE, *35, has moved to,'Junction City to manage a'department store. The club is anxiously looking. forward to the Oklahoma game weekend this coming fall and is hoping to run a special train to South Bend. 
San Diego 
The first project of the new year • for the* Notre Dame. Club ol San Diego was the co-sponsorship 
m 

of the second annual Appreciation Night banquet j^ at the El Cortcz Hotel on Feb. 11 hoaorins all ^ r the high school coaclies and administrators of San 
Diego county. Bud Wilkinson, coach of Okla­homa's 1953 national coHegiatc football champions, was the principal speaker. 

j Wilkinson also conducted a football clinic for the prep, college, scmcc and parochial grammar school coaches of the county. St. Augustine High School, the other co-sponsor of the banquet, and Saints Coach TOM CARTER, *51, were hosts for the clinic. 
G. R. BILL, '29, president of the Notre Dame ^ Club, scr\*ed as chairman, assisted by JOHN B. 
• SULLIVAN, '48. Other alumni who ser\cd on the banquet committee were: HOWARD BEIL­STELN, '47, TOM CARTER, »5I, PHILIP P. MARTIN, JR., »45, RICHARD MARTIN, '45. HARRY MONAH.\N, JR., '50. and BILL VAN­GEN, 49. 
On Oct. 15 San Diego alumni took advantage of the icJeviscd game bclivccn Michigan State and Notre Dame for a smoker and business meeting at the home of the club president. 

_^ PHIL MARTIN was chairman of the bus trip 
1 ^ to the ND-USC game. A group of 40 made the trip, but the response was so enthusiastic (we could have filled another bus if we'd been pre­pared to handle it) that the club is considering making this a regular event on the years that Notre Dame plays in Los Angeles. 
Present at the smoker, in addition to host JERRY BILL, were TOM CxVRTER, '51, RICH­ARD HESSLLVG, '49, PHILIP P. MARTIN, JR., '45, RICHARD MARTIN, '45, JOHN McCLAR-EN, '29, JOHN McDEVITT, '46, HARRY MON­AILVN, JR., '50, UGO ROSSI, '42, JOHN SUL­LIVAN, '48, and Rev. John J. Costigan, O.S.A., 

^ honorar>' member and athletic director at St. Augustine High School. 
—HARRY MO^AHA^, Secy. 
Southern Colorado 
Paul Hormmg was the honored guest in Januar>­at a meeting of the Southern Colorado Alumni Club. The following night he was principal speak­er at the annual All-Sports Banquet of Pueblo Catholic High School. Thirty honorary, regular and associate members attended the club meeting. 

^ —ALBERT THONLVS, 59, Pres. 
Southern Cook County 
A Charter Night banquet was held on December 2 at Surma's Restaurant in Homewood, 111. It was a huge success with 108 members and guests pres­ent. Plans arc under way for a UND Night pro­gram on April 9 and also an annual scholarship dance will be held each April. 
Special guests at the Charter Night banquet 

"nVIN CITIES—^Alumni gathered fo hear Father Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice-president of the University at a meeting in the Town and Coimtry Club. Others >«th Father Joyce, (left to right) arc John L. Connelly, club president; Joseph Shiely, Jr., governor for the Notre Danic Foundation for Minn., and Allan J. Powers, Foundation area director. Honored guests at the meeting included I. A. O'Shaughnessy, donor of O'Shaughnessy Hall on the Notre Dame campus and Father Vincent Flynn, president of St. Thomas College. 
included Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammcs wlio pro­vided the new bookstore building on campus; Mr. and Mrs. JACK MORLEY of ih*; Chicago .-Mumni Club; Mr. and Mrs. JACK OGREN, president of the Calumet District Club; Mr. and Mrs. DAN SH/\NNON (everyone remembers Dan who co-cap­tained the 1954 football team); and Msgr. Walter Croarkin, chaplain. Guest speaker for the occa­sion was REV. L/\WRENCE BROESTL, C.S.C., who represented the University. 
—JOHN G. ZAR/UVTE, Pres. 
South Jersey 
TIic club's annual Communion held on December II. ifass was Christ the King Church, and the Jotved at Johnnie's Inn, Wcstmont. 
 Breakfast was  celebrated at  breakfast fol-

NORTH FLORIDA—Newly-elected officers of the Notre Dame Club of North Florida, in Jacksonville, pictured (left to right) are Richard H. Brodeur, *50, president; William L, Kirchncr, Jr., '51, vice-president and Gerald B. Johnson, '50, secretarj'-treasurer. 
Spokane 
At tho annual Mass-Communion Breakfast Meet­ing wc seated 34 people at breakfast and our membership was enthusiastic over our get-together. 
The annual S.Wj\.B.S. banquet was held here recently at the Davenport Hotel. The S.W.A.B.S. membership is made up of Spokane Sports Writers and Broadcasters who at this time give au-ards and trophies to outstanding individual athletes, teams and coaches. "SLEEPY JIM" CROWLEY, a mem­ber of the "Four Horsemen," flew here from New York for the occasion and was the honored guest and principal speaker. Jim is indeed a polished speaker and a great humorist and kept his audi­ence at rapt attention for a good half hour. 
—FRANK HAGE.VBARTH, Secy. 
Terre Haute 
The club recently sent a forma] expression of 
gratitude to Mr. Henry Ford H for the Ford 
Foundation grant of $2,630,300 to Notre Dame. 
Honorary membership cards have been issued to various individuals including FATHERS HES­BURGH, JOYCE and JOHN aWANAUGH; ED KRAUSE; TERRY BRENNAN; BOB CAHILL; JL\f AR.\rSTRONG; and PAUL BUTLER. 
—RAYMO.N'D J. KE.VRNS, Pres. 
Tidewater 
The following ahunni of the Tidewater Club represented the University at the Catholic College Crusade held at Norfolk Catholic High School on Januar%' 12: HARRY -McKNIGHT, ED SULLI­V.\N, PHIL RUSSO, FRANK A^L\TO, OVRL 
F. B.ACHLE, JR., and BRI.\N B. DUFF. Each year this event is held for the senior class and their parents. Representatives of various Catholic colleges are invited and they arc available for in­formation to prospective students. 
—HARRY McKNIGHT, Secy. 
Tokyo 
Probably one of the most distant from the Uni­versity, but yet one of the most loyal of Alumni organizations is the recently formed Notre Dame Alumni Club of Tokyo. We are organized in the sense of companionship and loyalty to the Univer­sity but unorganized in a legal sense due to local regulations concerning requirements for formal con-
fr^ 

LOS ANGELES—^The ND Club staged a cocktail parly for alumni coaches and other guests attending the NCAA meeting held recently in Los Angeles. Some of those present included (left to right): Lou Zarza, Joe Kuharich, present coach of Washington Redskins and former Irish star; Business Manager of Athletics Herb Jones; Wally Ziemba, assistant at Indiana U., and formerly on Frank Leahy's staff; <^ Father Joyce; Ed *Moose' Krause; Dr. Frank J. Breslin; former president of Alumni Association, Leo Ward; T. B. Cosgrove, member of the 
University's Associate Board of Lay Trustees; and Dr. Leo Turgeon, club president. 
stitutions, minutes, disinterested audits of organiza­
tion fund, and other military red-tape. 
The army's defeat of the marine team in the local Tori Bmvl, which is the football game be­tween All-Stars of militar>' teams in the Far East played annually in Tokyo's ^teiji Stadium, served as the kickoff for our last dinner on Dec 17. GUY MACINA, '54, uho is with the Club Section of Headquarters Central Command arranged for the fine dinner at the Union Club of Tok\*o. It seemed like the Oliver in South Bend after a N.D. game rather than a club in Tokyo as the guests tried a few cocktails before the delicious steak dinner. .'Vmoog those on hand for the evening were LEN DURY, R.\Y TILLEY, ROY JOHNS, RALPH BONANATA, NEIL MacFARL.\ND, BRIAN JE.\NINGS, and JOHN McGINN—all of the Class of 1954. John McGinn's wife, the former Marlcen Gaubingcr of St. Mar>*'s and South Bend, was with John; thc>* were married at a lovely wed­ding here in Tokyo in earlv September. Also pres­ent were JOH.\ GELLER, '51, WILBUR MOE­SCHEL and FATHER BEH of the Congregation of Holy Cross, both of the Class of 1941. Other alumni of N.D. who were included in the guest list were CHARLES SCHROTH of the American Embassy and his wife, .ART HUNTER, '54, who had lone a fine job in helping the Army All-Stars come through to such a convincing victorv over the marines, and CHAPLAIN FATHER (LtJ Col.) ALBERT KNIER who is .Assistant Staff Chaplain of Central Command. Anotlu-r guest for the eve­ning was Ntiss Gertrude Fujila also a graduate of St. Mar>'*s and an ardent Irish fan from her years across the Dixie. Unable to be on hand of those who had made reservations were RAY LAVERT\% staioned locally witth the army, and FATHER CURTICE who had studied with the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross at Notre Dame and is now serving as an Air Force Chaplain at nearby Haneda Air Base. Dr. ROBERT H/VSEGUCHI, a professor at Tokyo University and an N.D. alumnus, was imable to be on hand due to a ver>* important local AEC meeting. Also present was Victor De-Fiori, a member of the 1952 class. 
Father Knicr gave a short address to the group on the obligations of a Catholic in Tokvo. 
TOM MURPH\- read the letter from F.VTHER HESBURGH on the progress of N.D.'s Distin­guished Professors' Program. This was followed by 3 discussion about the group's future plans. It was finally decided to consolidate Universal Notre Dame Night actiWtics with a joint celebration on the Feast of St. Patrick on March 17. 
Although this is the first meeting to be formally reported on, two other fine dinner meetings were held in the Spring and Summer. 
—THOMAS J. MURPHY, '54 

34 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March-April, 1956 
Triple Cities 
Tlie club held a recent dinner-meeting at the Binghamton Countr>- Club with PROFESSOR STAUNTON, former member of the Notre Dame faculty who has since retired, as the main speaker. Plans are being formulated for the club to meet at least four limes a year. .As the ALUMNUS goes to press, our nominating committee w*ill meet to select officers for the coming club program year and to make plans for Universal Notre Dame Night. 
—GEORGE HAINES, Pres. 

Twin Cities 
The new officers elected last Fall are as follows: JOHN J. CONNELLY, president; EDWARD IL\GGERTY, vice-president; FRANK KING, treas­urer; BILL SHER-Mx\N, secrctar>-. 
On October 17, the Twin City Notre Dame Alumni held a meeting at the Town and Country' Club at which FATHER JOYCE \vas the featured speaker. It was verv* much a success with over one hundred people in attendance. Father Joyce gave a wonderful talk on the university, its past hbtor\* and future aims. 
On December 11, we held our annual universal Communion breakfast at St. Olaf's Catholic Church in Minneapolis followed by a breakfast at the Nor­mandy Hotel. The attendance at this event was also vcr\- gratifying as there were close to 100 alumni members and their families present. Father Crowley, pastor of St. Olaf's Church, joined us at breakfast. Father Crowlej* has been ver>' active in Newman Club work at the University of Minne­sota and has been known for his work with the Newman Club throughout the United States. 
On December 28, the annual Twin Cities Notre Dame Ball was held at the Hotel Lowry in the main ballroom. Over 200 couples were in attend­ance, making the evening another successful e\-ent in our list of activities. Tiic students home from the University for Christmas \'acation did a won­derful job of decorating the main ballroom. 
At the present time we are preparing for the Universal Notre Dame Night program. Chairman of this event this year is HAROLD SODERBERG. 
Tlic Twin Cities Notre Dame Alumni group has a ladies' auxIUarj'. Old-timers among us here claim that it is the oldest such organization of its kind. They are vcr>' active in their o»vn circles, having card parties, dances, and monthly meetings. Their president at the present time is Mrs. EMMETT BARRON of 3603 Aldrich Avenue South, Minne­apolis, Minnesota. Tlie ladies* auxiliar>* has been most cooperative in arranging our recent affairs, 
and we look to their help in the future to make 
other Notre Dame .Alumni events a success. 
—JOHN J. CONNELLY, Pres. 

Washington. D. C. ^ 
November 5th found members and guests of tlie local chib enjoj-ing a special train trip arranged by the Penns\'Ivania Railroad (plug for FRANK MCCARTHY, '25, v. Prcs. of Pennsy) to PhUadrl­phia for the Penn game. .After the game many old friendships were renewed at the Philadelphia Club's cocktail party at the Warwick Hotel. The successful trip was for the most part due to Chair­man BILL MCGLOON' S untiring efforts. 
Tlic Annual Club Raflle, chairmanned by JACK McGRATH, occurred on November 9lh at the Shcraton-Carlion Hotel. After a brief business meeting, FATHER NEFF, Club Chaplain, accom-^ modated those present by drawing the lucky tickets. Tiic prizes totaled 43 in all, including three door prizes. D/\N DUGG.AN, '42, assisted admirably by donating many cases of food on behalf of his em­ployer, the H. C. Brill Company. Of significance were the following winners: JOHNNY BRAD­DOCK, '38, a Notre Dame monogrammed blanket for selling the most books (140); and J.ACK Mc-GR/VTH (the Chainnan, no less) an autographed Notre Dame football for selling the first prize win­ning ticket. The evening proved embarrassing to Father NefF by not only first drawing bis own name ^^ for the sixth prize, but by also doing likewise for Q^ the third door prize. The Raflle, customarily an outstanding Club event, proved again this year to be an extreme financial success. 
BOB GORDON, as Chairman of the Coniinimion Breakfast Committee, selected Holy Cross College as the site for this event on December 4th. Mass was celebrated by the Club Chaplain, Father NefT. and ser\'cd by Marine Captain Pottcbaum. An attendance of about 75 further enjoyed an address by Dr. Shane ^facCarthy, prominent Catholic lay­man and educator, and songs by the **Dccp Creek Quartet," Seminarians at the College. ^ k 
On December 27th the Club held its annual holiday season dance at the Officer's Club of the Boiling Air Force Base. TO.M MURRAY shares credit for the success of this party with his com­mitteemen, ANDY AUTH, BOB HICKEY, CHAR­LIE KREBS, TOM McKEVITT, BOB SCHEL­LENBERG and GLENN YATUNI. 
Upon Coacli TERRY BRENNAN'S arriral in Washington on January 7th, to receive a Toucli­down Club award, a representative group of mem­bers, headed by GAY HAAS, sponsored an informal luncheon at tlie Statler Hotel. 
The highlights of the 1955 Notre Dame football season were shown at a club meeting on Janu­ary 19. 
VINCE HOGAN'S friends will be interested to know tliat he is the proud father of a daughter^ Mary Ellen^ born September 13th. The same month brouglit a fourth son^ Thomas Girard, to BOB and Kathleen SCHELLENBERG, '48. 
The Club was particularly pleased to Icarn that TOM CARNEY, '27, was recently elected President of the Bo>-s' Club of Washington, D. C. 
The Club, on the other Iiand, was sorr>' to hear of the death of Commander BERNIE LIEN­HARD'S (*4I) mother in December. 
—JIM O'UVUGHLIX, Sec5-. 
West Virginia 
Tlie annual Holiday Cocktail Party was held at the Kanawha Countr>" Club on December 28. Eighty-seven alumni and their friends enjoyed a most pleasant evening. Arrangements were under the able guidance of FR.\NK: SHEETS, '41, and Mi\X HILL, '41. 
DR. LrVWRENCE G. HESS, '38, and DR. DONALD G. LEIS, '42, have been advanced to group leaders in the Process Development Depart­ment of the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Com­pany at South Charleston, W. Va. 
Our club has lost four members due to transfers: M/\X HILL, '41, has been promoted to Fire Chem­ical Production Manager and transferred to the Ne%v York office of Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company. BILL MANG.V.\, '42, and JACK GRtVDY, *50, have been promoted and transferred to the Torrence, California, plant of the Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company. Bill will be Area Supervisor in charge of Gas and Power. Jack will be in charge of the gas separation unit. 
DR. \nCR:\EL J. O'CONNOR, '36, has left the South Charleston plant of Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company to accept a position with the Lubrizol Company of Cleveland, Ohio. 
—CORNELIUS T. DESMOND, Secy. 
Western Wasliington 
The club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 4. Ver\- Rev. Damian Glenn, O.S.B., celebrated the Mass at the cathedral and the breakfast was held in the Hotel Sorrento. 

PHILADELPHIA—Bill Fischer, ND assistant 
•- <•;)•--".•/ . -:>^'--. 

ST. LOUIS—Club officers, dance committee and guests present at the Notre Dame Club's annual Christmas Dance are (seated, left to right), Miss Jenncttc English, Mrs. Betty Con-cannon, Mrs. Bea Higgins, Mrs. Catherine Doheny, Don Doheny, club president and un­identified guest. Standing (left to right) Bob Concannon, John F. Higgins, Jr., Norm Mueller, Miss Winne Ellenwood, Miss Kathy Thome, Phil Higgins, Jim Pudlowski and Al Vitt. 
ROBERT STEWART had charge of the afTalr. Alumni and their families and guests attended the 
event. 
JOE LOTTA chairmanned the Winter Smoker while AL TOTH will again be in charge of ar­rangements for Universal Notre Dame Night. One of the most successful meetings on the club cal­endar was held last Fall when the 1954 Highlights was the feature attraction of the evening. 
Club members extend congratulations to Bud KERR on being named head football coach at the University of Dayton. Bud has been an assistant on the University of Washington staff. 
—B. J. LENOUE, Secy. 
 football coach, (left), congratulates Bill 

Brooks, of LaSallc High and winner of the Philadelphia Club Trophy as the outstanding player in the Catholic High School Football League. Beaming approval on the selection arc Jim Gallagher, LaSalle coach, (second from left) and Bill Burns, club president (right). 
Wiiliamsport 
^^ore than 50 students, members, and guests at­tended the annual Wiiliamsport Notre Dame Club dinner party held here between Christmas and New Year's Day. 
H*\RRY J. KRI.MM was elected president to succeed PETER SO.MERVILLE, and JACK ^HLL­MANN was given a Man of the Year citation. 
The REV. THOMAS J. CULH.ANE, C.S.C., of the Father Gibault School for Boys, Tcire Haute, Indiana, an N.D. graduate in 1931 and a Wiiliamsport native, was the main speaker. He stressed the educational assets of the University. WILLIAM R. DOWNS, past president, made a . plea for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Carl Meyer, Jr., a pre-mcd senior, spoke in be­half of the Wiiliamsport area N.D. students. He outlined the current building development program. Other Wiiliamsport area students arc Carl Eck, a law senior; Kenneth Fromme, of Watsontown, a prc-med senior; Carl Meyer, Edward O'Dea, and Bernard Nierlc. 
JOSEPH ORSO, JR., a former N.D. law stu­dent, recently was graduated from the Vanderbtlt University Lavsr School and now is prepping for his bar exam in Pennsylvania. JxVMES GIBBONS III, Class of 1953, now is working in Columbia, 
S. C , and FRfVNK LUNDY is awaiting a call 
to army dutv. —JACK WILL.\L\N-N, Secy. 
Youngstown 
Our Christmas activity centered around the Notre Dame dance December 26 put on by the stu­dents. ' This has become a tradition in the city now and this year's affair u-as one of the most successful. At least 900 people attended and had a most enjoyable evening. The alumni arranged a party after the dance which was attended by both Students and Alumni. 
Universal Communion Sunday ^\'as observed De­cember II, at the Missionaries of the Sacred Heart Novitiate in Youngstown. Thirty men attended, including fathers of students and members of the Alumni Group from Warren. Father Donald Rea­gan, Assistant Principal of Ursuline High School, spoke to the group about the Notre Dame men's responsibility in lib community, parish life and Catholic Education. PAUL K.\NE and ALBERT GUARNIERI were in charge of arrangements. 
Officers elected for the next two years were: GRIFF ALLEN, president; WALTER RAUH, vice president, Youngstown; ALBERT GUARNIERI , vice president, Warren; BERNxVRD "PETE" BUCHEIT, secretary-treasurer. 
ifonthly Dinner Meetings arc planned for the coming year, as well as Universal Notre Dame Night, a Glee Club Concert, a Golf Outing, and a Football Excursion. 
-GRIFF ALLEN, Pre. 
Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956

Notre 
^ ^ •.«•, ,{„ RICHARD W. DALTON, '06, of Huntington. 
Indiana, died November 5, 1953. He had retired
\. ^;>«L;V 

from the Erie Railroad in 1952. Sur\'ivors include ' a son Emmet R., '49. 
HxVROLD P. FISHER, '06, Chicago, Illinois, 
alumnus, died January 8. He is sur\'ived by his
CUsSES ^ 
Engagements 
Miss Lillian Marie Gilmorc and JOHN W. LARSON, '41. Miss Kallilccn Teresa Duffy and ^\^LLH^I F. FLAHERTi', JR., '47. Miss Elaine Faciliquc and DR. JOHN A. GARIEPy, '50. Miss Patricia Gundeck and LT. NOEL O. KLNDT, '55. Miss .Marilvn Dlickwcdc and ENS. EDWARD 
R. SCHICKLER, USN, '55. 
Marriages 
Miss Rutli Alice Holtliousc and JERO.ME J. 
O'DOWD, '41, Notre Dame, Ind., September 3, 
1955. 
Miss Barbara Ann Clicsncy and VINCENT A. J.\COBS, '46, Detroit, Mich., September 10, -1955. 
Miss Nellie Mar^• Weigand and J. ROBERT 
WLDEMAN, '51, Notre Dame, Ind., October 22, 
1955. 
Miss Joan Claire Ederer and JAMES F. MUTSCHELLER, '52, Lajolla, Calif., January­15, 1956. 
Miss Patricia Breunan and ROBERT A. HART, '53, Charleston, W. Va., December 31, 1955. Miss Jane Benner and RICHARD T. LORENZ, '53, Berkeley. Calif., September 10, 1955. 
Miss Ernestine Laboranti and FREDERICK PUG­LLANO, *53, West Springfield, Mass., November 26, 1955. 
Miss Frances Adelaide Galanti and THOMAS A. KRUG, '53, Newark, N. J., February 4. 
Miss Mar>' A. Brennan and C. GEORGE SCHILLING, JR., '53, South Bend, Ind., October 22, 1955. 
Miss Kathleen Flanagan and LIONEL BALD­WIN, '54, Port Arthur, Texas, September 3, 1955. 
Miss Zita Mac Bierbusse and LT. JOSEPH C. D'ANTONI, '54, Frankfurt, Germany, September 23, 1955. 
Miss Marlenc Gaiibinger and JOHN H. McGINN, '54, Tokyo, Japan, September 9, 1955. 
Miss Nancy Ann Reidy and JAMES J. RICH­.ARDS, '54, Cleveland, Ohio, September 10, 1955. Miss Florence J. Schraitt and JOHN F. TUERK, 
'34, AIlento«-n, Pa., Januan-28, 1956. Miss Jane Harris and JAMES D. CONLEY, '55, August 27, 1955. Miss Nanc>' Ann Larkin and KENNETH C. McKAY, '55, Hamilton, Ohio, October 8, 1955. Miss Rita A. Kellctt and STEPHE.\ J. PRE­VOSMIK, '55, Milford, Mass., August 20, 1955. 
Births 
.Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. KEEGAN, '30, a son, Thomas Southwick, January-4. .Mr. and Mrs. G. ALVAREZ MORPHY, '31, a daughter, Januarv 4. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH P. SITEK, '32, a daugh­ter, September 24, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT JOHNSTON, '33, a son, Kevin Fiugerald, October 8, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. J. HAROLD RODDY, '33, a daughter. Marguerite Angela, November 8, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. J. GREGORY RICE, '39, a daugh­ter, Mary Jane, Januarv 19. Mr. and Mn . ROBERT E. SULLIVAN, '40, a daughter, Bridget, October 7, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. DO.NALD H. KOTZ, '43, a son, Jared CvTil, October 14, 1953. Dr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. ROURKE, '44, a daughter, Sheilah Ann, December 5, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM E. O'NEIL, '46, a son, William E., Jr., May 9, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM GARNER, '47, a son, William Howard III, November 17, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MYERS, '47, a son, James Guy, October 19, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS J. DAVIS, '48, a daughter, Bevcrlv. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD PATRICK, '48. twins, Carol Jane and Lynn Allyn, January 19. Mr. and Mrs. FREDERIC C. SHADLEY, '48, a son, Fredric Xavier, November 17, 1955. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1936 
i ^s^ 
^ \^>\ 

-Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH M. MENGDEN, *49, a son, Michael Joseph. August 17, 1955. -Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH G. NAUMAN, '49, a daughter, Ann ^lar^aret, December 3, 1955. Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT R. UHL, '49, a son, Terence Justin, December 26, 1955. Mr. and .Mrs. PAUL J. SHEEDY, '50, a son, Mark, December 11, 1955. Mr. and ifrs. EDWARD J. WALSH, '50, a daughter, Janet Clare, January 20. .Mr. and Mrs. DONALD J. ZEHNDER, '50, a daughter, Shawn, November 8, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. BRENNAN, '51, a daughter, Elisc Chantal, October 31, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS C. DAUGHERTi', '31, a daughter, Marie Elizabeth, October 1, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE J. JANSEN, SR., '51, a son, George J., Jr., October 9, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL F. KOMORA, '31, a daugh­ter, Katlileen Ann, January 20. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN .\L BANNON, JR., '52, a son, George Michael, December 7, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. DOUGHERTY, '52, a son, Kevin Joseph, November 8, 1955. Mr. and Mis. JA.MES C. ETLING, '52, twins, November 24, 1953. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT J. KLEIN, '52, a daugh­ter, Nanc>* Louise, November 6, 1933. Mr. and Mrs. GUS STEFANEK, '52, a daughter, j m Marie, July 29, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. ART WOOD, '52, a son, Arthur J. Ill, September 7, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH L. HEAP, '54, a son, Joseph L., Jr., December 15, 1933. -Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES W. HE.M.MINGER, '34, a son, David Patrick, October 16, 1955. 
Sympathy 
DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22, on the death of his wife, Nov. 10. 
BERT U. DUNNE, '26, and JOHN F. DUNNE, '28, on the death of their father, Patrick J., on Nov. 25. 
HERBERT P. GIORGIO, '32, on the death of his mother, Esther, Dec. 26. GEORGE H. ROHRS, '33, on the death of his father, Nov. 8. ROBERT J. MAZANEC, '38, on tlie death of his wife, Oct. 9. JOHN J. T.Ir.N'EHAN, '40, on the death of his father, William L., May 2, 1955. 
J. RE;\DY O'CONNOR, '49, on the death of his mother. 
AUGUST B. (GUS) CIFELLI, '50, on the death of his wife, Marguerite. Mrs. Cifelli died on Feb. 18 in Boston, Mass., during surgery for a heart ailment. 
THOMAS CVRTER, '31, on the death of his father, January-6. 
Obituary 
FRANK C. KINSELLA, *82, 3245 West 83rd Place, Chicago 29, Illinois, died on Januar>* 27, 1956, according to a letter received from his daughter. 
LOUIS P. CHUTE, '90, died last fall, according to word recently received by the Alumni OfHce. His home address was 307 E. Hennepin Avenue, Minneapolis, Minn. Mr. Chute, in addition to re­ceiving an AB degree in 1890, ^vas also awarded a bacliclor of laws degree in 1892. 
FRANK (C. G.) MCCARTHY. '93, of 718 W. Mulberr>*, Kokomo, Indiana, died in December, 1955. 
FRANCISCO JOSE GASTON, '02, of Havana, Cuba, died unexpectedly of a heart attack October 12, four da>*s after returning home from watcliing Notre Dame defeat the University of Miami in the Orange Boivl Stadium. He is sur\'ived bv his widow. 
GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '05, former Chicago 'alderman and Illinois State Senator, died January |l9, 1956, in Palm Springs, Calif., ^chere he had "lived-the past four years. After graduating from Notre Dame he attended Chicago Kent 'College' of Law. -Mr. Maypole is 5ur\-ived by his "widow, Elsie, and a daughter li\*ing in San Francisco. 
widow, Anne. 
DANIEL L. MADDEN, '06, died at his home in 
Highland Park, Illinois, recently. 
HOWARD DAVID, '08, of Hanna, Indiana, died 
January 18, 1955. 
CHESTER D. FREEZE, '11, died in 1954 at his 
home in Los Angeles, California. 
REV. CHARLES J. AURSIL\LL, C.S.C., '11, 
of Louisx'ille, Ky., died some years ago. 
CHESTER M. McGR^VTH, '12, of St. Joseph, 
Michigan, died recently. 
PAUL RUSH, '12, a track monogram winner in the pole \'ault during his undergrad days at N.D., died of a heart attack at his home in Memphis, Tcnn., Dec 15, 1955. He was born in Evansvillc, Ind., but had lived in ^[cmphis for the past 45 years. Rush was former president of the now­dissolvcd Rush Lumber Co., founded by his father, James V. Rush. Survivors include his widow, • Dorothy, a daughter and 2 grandchildren. 
ARISTO BRIZZ.\L.AR^\, '13, died of cancer 
Feb. 26, 1955, at his home in Little Rock, Ark. 
JOSEPH REX CL/\RK, '14, widely-known freight 
agent and member of a family long prominent in 
Memphis, Tenn., died of a heart attack, Dec. 2, 
1955. He was 61. Mr. Clark attended both prep 
scliool and university at Notre Dame starting in 
1909. Sur\'ivors include two sons, J. R. Jr., and 
Kyle; two sisters; and a brother. 
FR.ANK M. HOGAN, *14, a veteran Fort Wayne, Ind., attorney, died in January after an illness , of two months. He had been former deputy prosecuting attorney for Allen County and also associate city attorney. At one time he was asso­ciated with tlie law firm of Colenck, Hogan and Hogan. Survivors include his widow, Frances, a daughter, a sister, two grandchildren and a brother, HARRY G. HOGAN, '(H, 
LEO WELCH, '15, of Indianapolis, Ind., died at his home on January 3. ^[r. Welch was presi­dent of the Celtic Federal Savings and Loan As­sociation and was an active member of the K. of C.'s for the past 40 years. He also participated in politics in an honorary capacity, ilr. Welch was president of John R. Welch and Sons in addition to < being afliliated with the loan association. Surv*ivors include his widow, Kathyleen; four daughters; and five sons, all of whom are Notre Dame graduates, THOMAS A., '43; JOHN R., '45; ROBERT V., '50; JAMES C , '50; and WILLIAM P., '55. 
WILLIAM L. BRY/VN, '17, president emeritus of Indiana University, died Nov. 21, 1955, at 95. Dr. Br>-an, who ser\'ed as I. U. president from 1902 to 1937, was given an honorary doctorate of law degree at Notre Dame in 1917. 
CLIFFORD CASSIDY, '17, a South Bend, Ind., native, died in a veterans' hospital in Los Angeles, ^ Calif., Dec. 5. Cassidy, a lieutenant in World < War I, had been ill many years. He attended Notre Dame from 1913-15. He was buried in Na­tional Cemeter>-, Los Angeles, Calif. 
WILLIAM J. T. MARSaVLL, '18, died Aug. 1, 1955, at his home in Mt. Vernon, N. Y. VICTOR S. MERSCH, '19, of Washington, D. C , died Sept. 15, 1955. 
ROBERT E. O'HARA, '20, of Washington, D. C , an assistant clerk of tlie Senate Appropriations Committee and brother of the MOST REV. JOHN 
F. O'HARA, C.S.C., Archbishop of Philadelphia, died on February-9, 1956, of a brain hemorrhage, i He was a government employee for more than 20 years and had formerly been a member of the South Bend News-Times staff. In World War II, Mr. O'Hara scr\cd with the Army Air Force. He was a member of the Notre Dame Club of AVashing­ton and the Holy Name Society of Our Lady of \'ictory Catholic Church. Sur\*ivors include his widow, Mary, a daughter, Eleanor, and sLx broth­ers and sisters. 
MICHAEL J. TROMAN, '23 (listed in the '23 DOME as Joseph M. Troman), died at his Ar­lington Heights home in Chicago, Nov. 3, 1955. < He w*a5 a certified public accountant. Mr. Tro-* man is survived by his widow, Dorothy, three sons, two daughters, and four grandchildren. 
BERNARD A. WEBER, '23, died Jan. 28, 1956, in St. Louis, Mo. An outstanding physician for many years at Olncy, Mo., Dr. ^Veber was a son of Dr. George T. ^Vcber, founder of the Olncy Sanitarium, at which place he had been specializing in radiology and X-ray treatment. He is sur\'ived by his widow, two sons and two daughters. 
CORNELIUS KLAVER, '24, died in November. 1955. ... , V •... 
GERALD J. HOLLAND, '25, ediioHal staff 

tmember of 'the Detroit News for 20 years, died Oct. 29, 1955. A native of Vancouver, B. C , Mr. Holland had scrv'cd on newspapers In Niles, Mich., Vincenncs, Ind., and as Sunday editor of the old South Bend News-Times. He is 5ur\ivcd by his wife, Helen, and his mother. 
THOM.VS A. McVRDLE, JR., '25, of Corpus Christi, Texas, died Oct. 22,. 1955. 

REV. RAYMOND M. NORRIS, C.S.C., '25, died in the Community Innrmar>* at Notre Dame, Dec. 15, 1955. He had been a patient there since 1&42. lie was a member of the Holy Cross Mission 
~",Band from 1925-30, and a university prefect from 
«1921-34. Father Norris also ser\'ed as diaplain at the St. Charles Boys Home in Milwaukee, Wis., and Mt. Alvcrno home for the aged at Clinton, Iowa. EDWARD J. RY/VN, '25, for the past 28 years an attorney at Valparaiso, Ind., died at his home Nov. 6, 1955. He was vice-president of tlie Farmers State Bank in Valparaiso. Sur\'ivors include his widow, Veronica, a son and a daugliter. SEWARD E. BOWER, '26, of Detroit, Mich., died in 1954. FRANCIS E. CODY, '26, an insurance man svfrom Chicago, died Oct. 9, 1955. "Lou," as Cody 
Vwas called in his undergrad days at ND, was a halfback on Rocknc's 1925 team. He is sur\*ivcd bv his widow, a son and a daughter. 
PAUL A. DRISCOLL, '26, of Ithaca, N. Y., died some 10 years ago, according to a report just received by the Alumnt office. 
WALTER S. POHLMEYER, '26, died recently. He lived in West Point, Iowa. 

ROBERT CpONEY, '27, died recently in Adrian, Michigan. His home address was 1344 Sherman Court, Adrian, Mich. His father and brother are also Notre Dante alumni. 
-^ H. JUSTIN CORCORx\N, '27, died at his home 
^i n Cortland, N. Y., Dec. 20, 1955. Mr. Corcoran was manager of the Homer N'ational Bank and for­merly associated with the Marine Midland Trust Co. He was also active in the Cortland Chamber of Commerce. Sur\'iving are his widow, Elizabeth, four daughters and a son. 
WILLIAM LOUGHR/\N, '29, died suddenly Jan. II, 1956, at his home in Baltimore, Md. 

JAMES F. BR/VY, '29, of Houston, Texas, was killed in an airplane accident near Las Vegas, Nev., Nov. 17, 1955. He had been a civilian employee of the Federal Government since 1946. CHARLES H. IwMSER', '29, died in August, 
^1955. He lived in Indianapolis, Ind. 
• SISTER M. JUSTINE (M.\STERSON), S.C, *29, of Denver, Colo., died recently. She received a Master of Arts degree from the University in 1929. 
PATRICK S. McDOUGALL, '29, of Detroit, Mich., died August 16, 1955. 
EDGAR J. BL/VTT, '30, Cleveland, Ohio, died October 7, 1955. He is sur\'ived by his widow, Patricia; three daughters, Joan, Judith and Joyce; his mother; three brothers, REV. BERNARD A. BLATT, '31. GEORGE J.. '42, and Raymond G.; a sister, and an uncle, Rev. E. J. Miscli, C.S.C., 
_^ chaplain of Gilmour Academy, Gates Mills, Ohio. ^pince 1942 he had been labor relations supervisor for the Eaton Manufacturing Company in Cleveland. 
P. EDWARD PULTE, '30, died at the George­town University Hospital in Washington, D. C , Oct. 19, 1955. He had been employed as a sales engineer for a Washington firm since 1945. A native of Grand Rapids, Mich., Mr. Pulte at­tended N.D. from 1926-28. He is survived by his widow, Selma. 
REV. TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30, of New-York, died Nov. 28, 1955. FR/\NCIS R. DITTOE. '31, of Rocky River, ^Ohio, died in March, 1955. 
• JAMES C. RICH, '31, Chicago attorney, died at the Veterans' Research Hospital Nov. 20, 1955. He was an Army captain during AVorld War H serving five years overseas. Since 1947, he had been a partner in the law firm of Knox S: Rich, Crj'stal Lake. Sur\'ivors include his widow, Irm­gard, a daughter and two sons. 
CILVRLES F. SCHMIED, '31, died May 11. 

1955. He had been living in Columbus, Wisconsin, PHILIP H. DUNLE.U% '32, died of a heart attack in his law office at Albuquerque, N. M., 
^cpt . 22, 1955. A Chicago native, Mr. Dunlea^T had been practicing law in New Mexico since 1945, working for the U. S. Circuit Judge in Albu­querque and as assistant attorney general in Santa Fe. He gained wide reputation as an advocate of the rights of the "little man" through work he did 
' in fighting the higher utility rates in the state. He is survived by his wife and two children. 
VINCENT E. TURLEY, '32, died at St. Francis Hospital in West Hartford, Conn., on November 16, 1955. Vincent was tenant relations director of the Hartford Housing Authority. He suffered a fatal heart attack and was hospitalized about 48 hours before his death. Vincent was a Fourth Degree Knight of Columbus and belonged to the ^(en's Club of St. Thomas the Apostle Church in ^Vcst Hartford. He is survived by his widow, Jane; two sons, Vincent J. and John; a daughter, Kathr>*n; a brother, Raymond J.; and three sisters. 
MICIL\EL J. BALOG, *St, died May 6, 1955. He lived in Perth Amboy, N. J. 
E. D. "BUD" RADDATZ, '35, died suddenly on February 6 in Idaho Falls, Idaho, of a heart attack. Bud was super\-isor of Training and Em­ployee Communications for General Electric Com­pany at the National Reactor Testing Station. He suffered a heart attack at work and died in an ambulance en route to a hospital. He was well known in Idaho Falls for his work as a key com­mitteeman in the annual Community Chest Drive. Bud is sur\*ived by his wife and two small children, his mother and a brother LES, '33. His address was 1395 Johnson Place, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
J/V.MES J. SPAIN, '36, of Chicago, died May 22, 
1954. 
JOHN E. ^L\LONEY, '37, Chicago funeral home 
director, died Sept. 30, 1955. He had been presi­
dent o[ the John E. ^^aIdney Co. founded by his 
father over 60 years ago. Upon graduating from 
N.D. he entered the Chicago Fire Dept. and rose to rank of captain before resigning to take over directorship of the funeral home. Sur\'iving are his widow, Jane, and six children. 

FR.\NCIS J. DONLON, '38, of Endicott, N. Y., died recentlv. JOHN S. GONCHER, '38, of Chicago Heights, 111., died Nov. 20, 1955. JOHN J. O'BRIEN, '41, Trac>-, Minn., died May 6, 1950. ROBERT J. FUSHELBERGER, '42, of Colum­bus, Indiana, died in August, 1955. 
DR. ROBERT S. JOHNSON, '42, died at the Ha>-nes Brancli of Mass. Memorial Hospitals Oct. 27, 1955, five da>-s after contracting polio. A native of Troy, N. Y. and graduate of the Albany Med­ical College in liH5, Dr. Johnson had been affili­ated with the Boston State Hospital in Mattapan for six years. He had been named director of the Briggs' Clinic out-patient department Oct. 1." He is survived by his wife and two-year-old son. 
RICHARD J. WIDMAN, '50, Chicago sales en­gineer, died Jan. 23. 1956. JOHN R. CORCORAN, '52, of Columbus, Ohio, died April 5, 1955. 

GEORGE E. LUDWIG, Ch.E. June 1952, died on December 19, 1955. George was the son of GEORGE E. LUDWIG, Ch.E. '25, Muskegon. Not long after young George was graduated, he devel­oped evidences of a physical set-back idtimately diagnosed as Hodgin's Disease. All of the re­soRirccs that medical science has brought to bear on this disease were called upon. And all of the wonderful spiritual and philosophic strength that lies in a Notre Dame education were evident. Young George was married, advanced rapidly with the Bakelitc corporation, became a father, and gave to the short years of his life the full measure of his exceptional abilities. These are the facts. It is not as easy to write of the death of a wonder­ful young personality, son of a Classmate, born about the same time our own first child was born, compared through the years as parents do. It is not easy to describe the ordeal of parents watching the losing battle. Only the values that are taught by Notre Dame can answer the mj-stery of the early end of an outstandingly Wrtuous life, the brief and tragic ending of a lovely romance, and the cutting short of a professional career of great promise. But in the Notre Dame scale of measure, George Ludwig completed a most successful life. The tremendous lesson of charity displayed by the family during this period of strain must command some reward in consolation. The assured prayers of Classmates ('25 and '52) are a part.—^JEt\ 
JOSEPH Z. BURGEE, noted Chicago architec­tural engineer and designer of many buildings on the Notre Dame campus, died of a heart attack in his New York City hotel room Jan. 6, 1956. In­cluded among his finer designs at Notre Dame ^^*as the Morris Inn. His son JOSEPH Z. BURGEE, JR., graduated from Notre Dame in 1953. 
ENS. W. VAUGHN CRONIN who attended Notre Dame for one year and later graduated from the U, S. Na\-al Academy, died in October, ,1955, after a long illness. He is sur\'ivcd by his par­ents, Mr. and Mrs. William F. Cronin, '28, three sisters and one brother. 
FRANK T. FLYNN, former head of the di^-ision of social work at Notre Dame, and recent professor in the school of social ser\-icc administration at the Univ. of Chicago, died of a heart attack Jan. 11, 1956. An authority on penology and juvenile delinquency. Dr. Fl>Tin was an adwsor to coiurts and correctional departments in many states. He 
Notre 

left Notre Dame in 1947. 5ur%-ivors include his widow, Elsie, five children and his parents. 
K£R\VIN H. FULTON, chairman and chief ex­ecutive officer of Outdoor Advertising, Inc., and member of the Notre Dame Advisory Council for the College of Commerce, died of a heart attack in his New York City home Dec 12, 1955. Arriv­ing from Nox-a Scotia at the turn of the century he rose from a clerical post with the Van Beuren Billposting Company to organizer and president of the Outdoor Advertising, Inc., in 1931. He ser^'ed in the latter position until ^fay. ^Ir. Fulton was also founder, director and former vice chairman of the Ad%'ertising Council, in addition to holding numerous other posts in \*arious trusts, banking and trade affiliations. Survivors include his widow. t\vo brothers and five sisters. His nephew, KER­WTN FULTON graduated from Notre Dame in 1953. 
REV. THO\L\S J. KEARNEY, C.S.C.. one of the early supeni'isors of Moreau Seminary and long-time member of the Notre Dame Nlission Band died in the Notre Dame Community Infirmary Nov. 14, 1955. He was 75. Father Kearney, born in Montreal, Canada, was a member of the Anglo-Canadian Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He was also active in the annual Lay Retreat on the Notre Dame campus. 
AUGUSTINE J. P.-\LL, who painted the murals in the Notre Dame Cafeteria and was a former member of the Notre Dame Fine Arts Departments, died recently in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Mr. Pall was a native of Rumania and had been educated in Himgary and Germany. For a number of years after learing Notre Dame he was head of the King's College Department of Fine Arts. He was buried in St. Mary's Cemetery in Hanover Town­ship, Pa. 
1905 
COL. ERNEST K. SHEBLE writes that "My Golden Jubilee Notre Dame medal is such a beau­tiful article that I decided to have same attached to a gold bracelet as a Christmas present for Mrs. Sheble." 
CHARLES R. "DUCKY" HEMP wTites that his 50-year medal arrived and he prizes it very highly. He also states that he attended the Notre Dame-Southern California game which ^vas not a pleas­ant afternoon from a number of standpoints— mainly the score. 
1906 
THO^LVS L.ALLY plans to be present in June for the class' Golden Jubilee. He has practiced law in Spokane, ^Vash., for 46 years and is an active member of the alumni club there. 
FATHER EDWARD FIN'NIGAN writes that he said a Mass for Francisco Gaston, Havana, Cuba, who died recently. Father Finnigan too is looking forward to the reunion in June. 
PAUL R. ALVRTIN is editor of the Evening Times in Cumberland, Maryland. 
It looks as though the Class of 1906 will have an excellent turnout for the big Reunion Week­end on June 8, 9, and 10, 1956. 
1907 
The current address of DENNIS E. L.ANNON is 1320 First Avenue, Perry, Iowa. He formerly lived in Mason Cit>-. 
1908 
DOMINIC L. CALLICRATE, plant manager of Foster and Kleiscr Company's branch works in Portland, Ore., retired this past fall after 32 years of active ser\'ice for the company. He played end and halfback for the Fighting Irish in 1905-1907. 
Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
1910 
The names of HARRY "RED" MILLER, Wilmington, Delaware, and HARRY McDONAGH, Chicago, Illinois, were inadvertently left out of the ALUMNUS list of those who attended the 1910 Class reunion last June. Both Red and Harry were present for the festivities. 
Asyeaa
aeunion 
^il ^ 
Fred L. Steers 

1911 
105 S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illinois 
Flash! JAP LA^^TO^• has accepted the chairmanship of the local reunion commit­tee tor the Class ot J9I1. He will appre­ciate any suggestions that you have for making your class reunion cnjo>'able and successful. His address is 113G Blaine Avenue, South Bend 16, Indiana. 

1912 Paul R. Bj-nie ' ' '" ' O'Shaughness)- Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
Ron O'Neill 

1914 
1350 No. Black Oak Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 

191 C James E. Sonford 1429 W. Farragut Avenue Chicago 40, Illinois 
Aoyedfi 

1916 Grover F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
1917 Edward J. McOsker 2205 Briar^raod Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
RAYMOND A. SCHAtJB, Whiting, Ind., has been elected president of the National Retail Lumber Dealers Association. 
OSCAR DORWIN has been elected to 5er\e a 3-ycar term on N.D. Alumni Assoc. Board of Directors. 
PAUL FOGARTY may be the person who is responsible for a New York City high school freshman receii-ing 5100,000. George L. Wright III, I4-ycarK>Id contestant on the tele\'ision shou' *'The Big Surprise" purportedly mbsed a question deal­ing with popular songs in the 1920's in his try for the §100,000 prize. Within minutes the program director discovered the song they asked about had been written in 1930. It was "Betty Co-Ed" com­posed by Rudy Vallee and Paul Fogarty. Paul now conducts a program on WGX-TV in Chicago and he telephoned the New York show to remind them of the error. 
1918 George E. Harbert ' 500 Rock Island Bank BIdg. Rock Island, Illinois 
1010 Theodore C. Radcmaker Peru Foimdry Company Peru, Indiana 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
ELMO A. FUNK, 'II 

That some engineers have varied careers is well illustrated by Ehno A. Funk, '11., the man who provides "the pause that refreshes" for much of central Indiana. 
After receiving his degree in civil engineering from Notre Dame, Mr. Funk began his career with the Chi­cago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Rail­road. Before long, he was back home in Anderson, Ind. to establish a private engineering business, which he operat­ed until his appointment in 1914 as city engineer. 
In IS 18 Mr. Funk joined the Mid­west Engine Company, eventually be­coming sales manager. By 1924 he was president of the Kreush Ice Cream and Bottling Company, a far cry from the Milwaukee Road. Selling its ice­cream interest in 1930, the firm became the Coca-Cola Bottling Company in Anderson. In the same year, he ac­quired Muncie's Coca-Cola plant, now operated by his brother, Galand Funk. 
Mr. Funk is a past president of the Anderson Chamber of Commerce and the Anderson Community Chest. He serves currently as a director of the Citizens Banking Company and the Anderson YMCA. He remains active in Anderson civic and charitable pro­jects as varied as his career. 
His son, Thomas, a 1938 Notre Dame graduate, is vice-president of Coca-Cola in Anderson. Mr. Funk is City Chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation in Anderson. 
1 920 I^pl> ^V- Bergman '^* ' 1609 N. Jcffeison Ave. St. Louis 6, Missouri 
dsyeaa 
aeumon 

1971 Dan W. Duffy '^ ' UOl N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
It's now Judge NORMAN C. BARRY of the Superior Court of Cook County, which sliould keep JOE BRANDY out of the entire state of Illi-^ nois. The good judge, now a grandfather six* times, would like to have Brandy write him at the County Building, Chicago. 
HAROLD S. FOLEY, Board Chariman of the Powell River Company, Standard Building, Van­couver, B. C. Canada, would like to hear from AL BRYCE and JOE BR/\NDY, '21, and TOM BEACOM and REVEREND TOM TOBAN, '20. 
Another judge, ^VNTHONY BR^VY of Bellcfon­
taine, Logan County, Ohio, wants to hear from 
JOHN DETTLLVG of Akron, Ohio. 
ED SCHOLAND, 160 Van Rensselaer Street. 
Buffalo, New York, no\%' a food broker, wants to ^ 
hear from cvcr>'one—no favorites. % 
BILL SHERRY, 1530 East 27th Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma, whom you will remember came to Notre Dame from Salamanca, New .York, now in the oil business in Tulsa, Oklalioma, father of eight cliildrcn and twice a grandfather, wants to hear from KARL G. PFEIFFER, the old Arkansas, .MARK 2IMMERER, BOB KREMP, the old broad jumper, and BILL WHITE. 
Had a letter from GEORGE WITTERIED. He, LARRY MORG/\N and BILL MADDEN were on their way to visit Judge VINCENT GIBLIN in Miami. George is anxious about working for thisj year's reunion. He and BILL ALLAN meet oftenil in Chicago and cup up their friends. I would advise LEO KELLEY and Joe Brandy to meet him there and defend themselves. 
AL ABRAMS writes from 329 Blackland Rd. NW, .-\tlanta, Georgia. AI is still an engineer in the construction business. His boy, Bernard, graduated from West Point in 1947. Another son, Edward, graduated from Notre Dame in 1950. A grandson, bom February 28th, 1955, isn't quite ready for college but has an eye on 1973. 
JOE TILLM/\N is still president of the Unilcast Corporation, 2237 Wateworks Drive, Toledo, Ohio. _ His boys arc with him in that company, with the ^ exception of the youngest son, William 22, who is with the Army in Japan. Joe wants to hear from HARRY McLELLAN, RAY SCHUBMEHL and TO.M \'AN AARLE. 

From FATHER BIB SHEEHAN comes word that he is still teaching at scliool. He and DR. JOE HEINMANN arc in close touch. You fel­lows will have a chance to talk \vith Joe at 
FLASH! For the first time in any his­tory, any place, CHARLES P. J. MOO­NEY has been heard from. He lives at 375 N. Avalon Place, Memphis, Tennessee, and practices law at 1100 Commerce Title Building at the same aty. Charles P. J. Mooncy the third, 17 years, and the twin girls, Charlotte Frazcr and Louise Frazcr, I5V^, arc all in prep schools. After all these years he wants to hear from everyone in the class, and he mentions especially PETE SMITH, Austin. Texas, GEORGE WITTERIED, SHERRY DIXON, CLIFF O'SULLIVAX, LARRY MORGAN and JOE THO.MPSON. 

When I didn't hear from Brandy and Kelley, I talked to them by phone, and they arc making the reunion this year. The Great Lakes Seaway has changed Ogdensberg to city status and Brandy seems to be enjoying it. I wowld like to have a word from you who haven't written, because June rolls around in a hurry. 
TOKYO—^The club held a dinner meeting attended by ND alumni in the area ^vho are members of the Anncd Forces. Photo on left (left to right, seated at head table), Tom Murphy, Wilbur Moeschel, Father Knier, Father Beh and Victor DeFiori. Photo on right (left to right) Len Dury, Ray Tilley, Roy Johns, Ralph Bonanata, Neil Macfarlan, Brian Jennings, and (standing) John Geller. 
-N1 922 Gerald A. Ashe • • '^ ^ 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
It is with great regret that we record the deaths of Mrs. Matt Weis of St. Louis and Mrs. Ricard McCarty of Canton, Ohio. 
Mrs. Weis was seriously injured in an automobile accident at Chicago. Heights on the evening of the iS'av>' football game as she, in company of her husband. Doctor MATT WEIS, and the Doctor MANIONS were driving from the football game. Tlic car of the Wcis-Manion group was struck 
-V by a speeding car. All occupants of both cars were 
9 injured—^frs. Weis fatally so, and passed to her reward on November 10. FATHER ROBERT SHEEHAX, C.S.C., was one of the priests ofR­ciating at the Solemn Requiem Mass, and Bishop Burns of St. Louis was the celebrant. FRj\N*K, BLOEMER of Louisville flew to St. Louis for the funeral. Our loving sympathy to you. Matt. 
We tender our sincere sympathy, also, to RIC­ARD McCxVRTY of Canton, Ohio (I9I2 Kirt Court, N.W.) on the death of his beloved wife, Austine, in Mcrc>' Hospital at Canton in November after a brief illness. 
^ In the last issue of the .-VLUMNUS, we sug­# gestcd that our good friend CHARLES "RED" CROWLEY of Greater Boston might furnish :i few additional details on the sickness and death of our beloved classmate JAMES DOOLEY. Of course. Red is not the t>-pe to disappoint his classmates when the SOS signal is sounded. He wrote in last November as follows: **Evcn though our contacts arc few and far be­tween, it is always a joy hearing from you. I ^vas so sorr>' having missed your cail on your last x-Isit liercabouts. I made a determined effort to locate you at the local office hoping I might drag you ^ into the country for a day or ttvo, but no hick. "I heard of Jim Doolcy's passing through CY KELLETT after his funeral, much to my sorrow. Cy gave me the sad news when the Boston N.D. Club held their outing here at Rivers End on June 19. I had made a habit of dropping in on Jim whenever I happened to be in tlie vicinit>* of North Andovcr, in fact, I saw him in the Bon Sccour Hospital after his last operation. Later on I saw him at his place of business, and I gathered that he was coming along in fine fashion, but evi­dently this was not true. I felt dreadful not ^ knowing of his death as I would most surely have ^ been present. May he rest in peace. 
"Yes, on occasion I do hear from CLIPPER SMITH. He has been here several times and wc do enjoy Clipper and Mrs. Smith. After he fin­ished up here in the pro game, ^^adcline and I drovb out to California with them and greatly en­joyed our stay at the Smith Chateau on Laguna Beach. 
"The local N.D. Club has bad their annual outing here at Rivers End Farm, Millis, Massa­chusetts, for the past t^^'a years and I get to see a goodly group of the boys. I am not certain I 
can have them this year, hoi*ever, as I am losing 
my last two daughters via the marriage route this 
summer and the attendant work will be all I can 
handle. I don't know what I shall do with this 
expanse after they go. We may even retire to 
some Vermont hamlet. 
"Madeline and I arc enjoying wonderful health 

now after we both were subjected to a bit of 
surgery some months ago. 
"Now I have really gone all out to give you 

what information I hax-e and hope you can find 
time to brief me occasionally on outside area 
doings. My kindest regards as usual and my con­
tinued best xx'bhes for good health." 
Here is a Christmas card note from HAROLD 

WEBER of South Bend. It reads: 
"Lucy and I regret that 1955 went by without 

you showing up for a weekend at Diamond Lake. 
I feel the same frustration that TOM McCABE 
described so feelingly and well. 
"RALPH and Ann CORYN and JACK HIG­

GINS were our guests for the Iowa game weekend 
and we all regretted that you were not present to 
defend yourself, etc. Take care of yourself. Kid, 
for our class roster is thinning out at an alarming 
rate." 
From Louisville comes a message from Mrs. Thomas Viviano, alias Ruth Bloemer, who is a married daughter of Mr. and Mrs. FRANK BLOEMER. Ruth writes: 
"I saw your article about the Class of '22 in the ALUMNUS and just thought that I would let you in on some more news. Our Tommy, Jr., was three months old on November 20 and is really a living doll. 
"My sister, Chile, had a little girl October 2 thus adding a little spice to her family which already consists of three small boys. 
"Mother and Dad left for California on Thanks­giving Day. Naturally they could not miss the 
N.D. game. Also, it is ginng them time to get over the shock of having five grandchildren in five years." 
EDDIE BYRNE of Natchez, Miss., reports that he and wifcy \'acationed in the State of Maine last summer. They liked it but seem to prefer Wyoming and the West. In early November Eddie attended a Jesuit Retreat at Pass Christian on the Gulf. Eddie says his other daughter, Eleanor, is being married on February 4 and wonders if the class secretary can come down for a visit at that time. Nothing would please your scribe more but does not know just how he can appease hts boss if ho makes all of these visitations. Eddie says there will remain only one unmarried child after daughter Eleanor's marriage in February. Dick remains to finish high school this summer and intends to enter N.D. next September. Eddie admits that his son is a fine boy (takes after his mother] and is certain Dick will like the old school. 
Congratulations to CHARLES FOLEY 11 and wife Rosemary on the birth of their first born— Christopher Dana, on November 13, in Seattle, Wash. 
From Tokyo, Japan, comes a welcome postal 

from Mrs. CHARLES J. (PAT) HIRSCHBUHL 
who is returning to her native city of Portland, 
Oregon, after visiting the Hawaiian Islands, Aus­
tralia, New Zealand, Tasmania, Suva, and Japan. 
The VINCE HANRAHANS of Silver Spring, 
)td., report that their daughter Dianne is being 
married next June. 
RICARD McCARTY is with the Dannemiller 

Divhioa of Consolidated Foods ot Cantooy Ohio. 
Already he promises a visit to the campus next 
fall with a couple young N.D. hopefuls to see the 
Michigan State game in company with GENE 
SMOGOR of South Bend and JOHN P.\UL 
CULLEN of IVau^vatosa, Wa. 
JIM McCABE and wife, Irma, represent Gantner 
of California and locate at 846 South Broadu-ay, 
Los Angeles. 
During the Christmas holiday period, TOM R. ASHE, '31, of Whittier, Calif., dedded to have luncheon at the Los Angeles Athletic Club for a very small group of friends. All of the invited ones appeared—total of six—and were escorted to a luncheon room with place settings for about 56 people. There ^vere raised eyebrows until the man­agement explained that through some holiday mixup their Civitas luncheon group failed to show that day. There was a strong representation of 1922 men present including HON. A. A. SCOTT, GENE KENNEDY, JIM McCABE and your secretary. LEO WARD, '20, and ED ASHE, '26, managed to keep the '22 group from getting out of hand. 
TOM McCABE and wife. Bess, of Elmhurst, III., journeyed by train to California to spend Christ­mas with their son, LT. TOM McCABE, '54, USMC, who is stationed at Camp Pendleton, Calif., near San Clements. About two hours before they arrived, Lt. Tom was ordered to the Sierra Sky­line to repair Installations damaged by storms and heavy rains. Lost reports had the senior McCobe and wife moving north by automobile headed for the high Sierras to meet up %%'ith son Tommy come rains, high water, snows, zero weather or anything else in tlie weather line. We hope they made it. 
JERRY DDCON of Chicago and Ex-anston was a California \'lsitor on business in the fall. 
DR. MATT WEIS is the first chairman of de­velopment appointed at St. Louis University. He has assumed leadership of all \'oIunteer groups working on the University's long-range program. Matt is also Notre Dame Foundation Governor for Missouri. 
Many thanks to all who sent Christmas and New Year's greetings to the class secretary. We hope that 1956 will be a good one for '22 men, and that tlie Good Lord will spare many of us to appear for our 35th reunion next year. Your scribe re­grets exceedingly that it was not possible for him to represent the Class of '22 at the conclave of class secretaries held on the campus December 9 weekend. 
1923 Louis V. Bruggncr ' ^^ * 2165 lUvcrside Drive South Bend, Indiana 
MAURICE JOHN CARROLL, '19 
"Maurice Carroll. Architect" is a familiar signature on designs for Cath­olic churches and institutions. The man behind the name^ Maurice John Carroll, '19. is well knbwTi for ecclesi­astical and institutional design in the Archdiocese of St. Louis and in the Kansas Cit)' area, but he has left his mark at Notre Dame, too. In 1923, only four years after graduation, he designed the college building at St. Mary's, and in 1939, in association with Maginnis & Walsh, designed the Rockne Memorial. 

Otiiers among his arcliitectural ac­complishments are: as Maurice Car­roll Architect, the Christian Brothers High School in St. Joseph, Mo., and, as a partner in Carroll & Dean Archi­tects, the Motherhouse and Power Plant at St. Mary's of Leaven\vorth, Kans., die Rockhurst College buildings and St. Teresa College building in Kansas City, several churches in St Louis and hospitals in the Kansas City area. 
He has served as director of the Kansas City Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. 
His son, Martin, '48, a Chicago re­search director, also appears as a Spot­light Alumnus on this page and his daughter, Sister ^lary Mauricita of the Sisters of Charit)', Leavenworth, Kans., is taking graduate studies in Notre Dame's summer session leading to a Master's degree. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
1 974 jsincs R. Mcchan I #iiT 229 So. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
1925 J°**" P- Hurley "• ^ 2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
Anotlirr first for the class of '23. Our second annual cocktail reunion party following a game was an unqualified success. This year's reunion followed the Xav>* game and was held in the Golfers' Lounge of Morris Inn. It's fun seeing so many of our classmates and meeting their wives and friends. 
Your *'sccreiar>'" should have registered those who attended so if I miss your name—please for­give me. JIM ARMSTRONG was there to greet the gang with that famous smile. BILL BELL, MAURY BOLAND, DR. CY CALDWELL, TOM CARFAGNO, HERM CENTLIVRE, ED CUD­DIHV; RAY DcCOURSEY, VIRGIL PAGAN, AL FOOS, BOB GORDON, CLARENCE HARDING, FRANK HOWUVND, GEORGE BISCHOFF, CLARENCE KAISER, JOHN ROACH, JONE KANE, FR/\NK STEEL, EVARD KOHL, GEORGE LAUGHLIN, GEORGE LUD>VIG, WALLY METZGER, DON MILLER, JERRY MILLER, ED OTOOLE, LEO POWERS, PAUL SAGSTETTER, JOE SCALISE. GEORGE SCHWARZ and KARL SCHAETTLE. 
In case I missed your name—let me hear about you and your family. With few exceptions the boys had tlieir wives and friends with tlicm so there were over a hundred at the part>'. 
We had a fc%v nice letters from some •who 
couldn't come. 
JOHN KILKENN'^' of Pendleton, Oregon. "My sincere regrets on my inability to be. present at the Na\*\- football reunion of the class of '25 on October 29th. My regards to ROMWEBER, CAR­BOY. DON MILLER, RED KANE, GRIFFIN, \MIAPE and all the others. A contribution tou-ard the fun in the sum of $3.00 is enclosed." 
GEORGE DRISCOLL of Columbus sent a nice letter and enclosed a check for the Notre Dame Foundation. **I have delayed sending this too long but the clieck is being sent through you be­cause I think the Class of 1923 is composed of a wonderful group of fellows and you, with the other ofHcers, have done a great Job.. I appreciate the unselfish efforts of the religious; priests, broth­ers, and sisters who work in the laundr>' and Holy Cross Scminar>* kitchen. Anyone who devotes his life to the work at Notre Dame deserves a word, at least. Those priests who teach by day and tr>' to keep order in dorms by night lead a strenuous life that most people do not comprehend. The check might be for a larger amount but it is all I feel that I can spare now. 

"Also, I am not sold on the idea of bnnging in a distinguished faculty. I think a great school should raise a large share of its own distinguished scholars. I belie\-e that Notre Dame's particular job lies in the undergraduate field, at least for a great many years yet. Too much emphasis on post­graduate work may weaken the undergraduate pro­gram. (Such as, encouraging the practice of using graduate students to teacli imdergraduates.) There is danger of over\'aluing the teaclier who publishes articles at tlic expense, of the quality of every day teaching." 
Thanks George for a fine letter and you WTII be getting a letter of tlianks for the check and I'm suro Fatlier John will give you the University's side of the "Distinguished Professors Program." 
KARL SCHAETTLE of LaCrosse, Wisconsin, ^vho was at tlic reunion wrote: "Dear John: Just a note to let you know tliat AUGIE and MAR­GUERITE GRAMS and HARRIET and myself will be down for the game Saturday. Will see you at Morris Inn. Best regards. Karl." 

FRANK HO\\'LAND wTote Uiat he and his wife Margaret would be on deck and they were and we had a nice 'visit. 
HERM CENTLIVRE couldn't make the party but he wTote a very interesting letter covering our classmates. 
**Sorry it looks like I'll be unable to attend the 1925 Navy Ff>otball Reunion of our class. Also had to miss the 30-year reunion because of the death of my wife's 82-ycar-oId aunt. Trust that the 35-year class reunion in 1960 ^vill list me among those present. 
"Saw HARRY STUHLDREHER and JLM RYAN, class of '26, at Southern Methodist game. 
"Recently met a MR. KEATING of class of '34; he is contact man for Kroger account for a Cincinnati advertising agency. 
"Also saw JOHN KOCH of Koch Brewery, Dun­kirk, New York—also a Notre Dame graduate—at 
MARTIN C. CARROLL, '48 

Martin C. Carroll, '48, has been named director of research and de­velopment for Ski! Corporation, Chi­cago manufacturer of portable electric and pneumatic power tools. 
According to Skil President Bolton Sullivan, who announced the appoint­
« 

ment, Carroll will guide research, product development and testing from the company's main plant on Chicago's northwest side. 
Carroll, a Harvard law graduate and former associate of the law firm of Isham, Lincoln and Beale, joined the Skil legal staff last August to handle ^ corporate matters and legal phases of industrial tool production. 
Following his graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1951, Carroll entered the Office of Special Investiga­tions of the U. S. Air Force, from which he was discharged in August of 1933. ^ 
He lives with his wife and one son, Martin Jr., at 577 Ash Street in sub­urban Winnetka. 
Martin's father, prominent architect Maurice Carroll, is also a Spotlight Alumnus on this page. And each was "spotlighted" by a different source. 
convention of Brewers Association of America in Chicago recently. Our son Charles* heir, Patrick, has made us grandparents. Our two eldest daugh­ters are in Medill Journalism School at North­western. One will be graduated in December, the other is in Freshman class. Our youngest daughter, 9, keeps us from getting lonesome. BILL CER> NEY drops in once or tu-icc a year—he is with Huntington Laboratories located nearby at Hunt­ington, Indiana, former home of HARRY MEHRE. "'MOOSE' KRAU5E \-isited and addressed the 
#) 

WILLIAMSPORT—Part of the more than 50 alimini, students and guests at the annual dinner party held during the Christmas holidays. In the first row^ left to right, are William 
R. Downs, Foundation chairman; Harry J. Krimni, new president; Peter Somcrville, im­mediate past president; Rev. Thomas J. Culhane, of Tcrrc Haute, Ind., guest speaker; and John B. Willmann, club secy. Standing arc: Carl Eck, Frank C. Hayes, past president; James E. Gibbons, III; Frank Lundy, Kenneth Fromme, Carl Meyer and Joseph Orso, Jr. 
"'N'olrc Dome Fort Wavnc Club incctini; htld at «ihc brcwcr>- last Tuesday. Also see EMIL SITKO now and then—he*s with Main Aiito SiippW Sport­ing Goods. BOB GORDON, '25, as you probably know, has as his law partner—Bob Meyers, present Ma>*or of Fort Wayne. Meyers is a candidate for Mavor in the coining November election. Sec DICK APP, MAURV BOL.AND and ED BAKER occasionally; also PAUL SAGSTETTER. Dick heads Indiana Employment Security Division here: Maur\- is with Internal Revenue Department and Ed is Treasurer Peter Eckrich & Sons Wholesale Meals, Paul's with General Tire Company. Ever ^e e PAUL DOOLEY? Tell him wc said hello, 
^lincerely, Herman G. Ccntlivrc." Thanks Hcrm— I hope others follow your example and drop mc a note about the *23ers in their lix'cs. 
JOHN BARTLEY who lives in TUCKAHOE. NEW YORK, sent mc "The Standard Star" of New Rocliellc, New York which carried a Iwo-Incli headline "VERGARA ELECTED MAYOR." Coun­cilman GEORGE VERGARA, former Democrat who ran independently won over a 16-ycar in­cumbent with a sweeping victor>'. Congratulations and good luck George. (Ed, Note: George Vergara is a "Spotlight Alumnus*' in this issue.) Your classmates arc proud of vou and thanks to vou 

^OH N BARTLEY for this newsy letter. 
0 "I called up AL SOMMER the other day to have lunch with him and learned that he has moved to Caracas, Venezuela. In case you want his address it is ^fcCan^-Erickson Corporation, Edi­ficio Paris 26, Plaza Candelario, Caracas, Ven­ezuela. 
"FATHER JOHN *IKE* LYNCH Is Pastor of St. Francis Xavier Parish, Glenoaks Boulevard. Burbank, California. Tliis is a newly created parish and Ike has aTl the headaches of raising the money to build a new church. 

"BOB HURLEY has moved from Fresno, Cali-j£ornia to Bakersfield and ts .Agency* Manager there ^o r Marchant Calculators. 
"I had an awfully good time at our reunion in June and am looking forward already to our next one in 1960. Sincerely. John A. Bartlcy." 
DR. JOSEPH P. EVANS, neurological surgeon in Chicago, has been named to the Xavier University Advisor>* Council which will assist the president in policy matters. 
High Masses will be said for CHARLES SOLLO and GERALD HOLLAND who died in recent months, and I know you fellows. will remember 

^hem in your prayers. 
m Put a red letter around October 20. 1956. which will be the MICHIGAN STATE GAME or OKL.\HOMA, October 27th. Let us know \vhich game you want us to have our annual football reunion. Lct*s hear from you regarding the date and any improvements we can make to make these gatherings even more enjo>-ablc. 
.BERNIE FINNIGfVN has just been named vice-president of the American Safety Razor Corpora­tion. He will continue his executive duties as gen­eral manager of the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant. LaPorte, Ind. 
// jh reunion 
1926 J°**" ^' ^-'^" 
2458 Greenleaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois 

MISSISSIPPI—"The *Moose' in good Rebel 
Flash! RUDY GOEPFRICH has accepted the chairmanship of the local rcuoion com­mittee for the Class of 1926. He will ap­preciate any suggestions that you have for making your class reunion enjoyable and successful. His address is 1109 Cleveland Avenue, South Bend 16, Indiana. 
As I sit with this t^-pcwriter staring mc in the face tr)*ing for some inspiration for a column I think that only a few short months rem^n until our 30lh Reunion. That June afternoon 30 years ago when wc scurried in our caps and gowns to get in out of the rain so the exercises could continue. Then memory goes back another four years. In the spring of 1922 how many of us were worrying about those final exams at high school or prep school to make possible that dream of entering Notre Dame in the fall? Of those spring dreamers how many made that first happy step onto the campus in the fall? 
Then through the next four yeais how many of those who started so hopefully left us, for one reason or another? Then through the nc«t 30 years how many left our ranks? Some of those who did not graduate with us are still with us as active alumni but those of us who have gone aince 192b arc with us only in our memories and our prayers. You'll notice in the obituary column that FRANCIS "LE\V" CODY and SEWARD BOWER have joined that roster. May God rest their souls and those of all our deceased classmates. 
How many started, how many graduated, how many have died, how many arc left? Your roster will tell yo« the answers to the last two questions, your memory the answers to the others. 
That roster which the Alumni Office lo thought­fully mailed to all members of the clas> cariy last December is a very important piece of paper. It tells you where you can reach a friend whom you haven't seen for some years and invite him to join you next June for our 30th Reunion on the campus, if each of us sets himself up as Chairman of the Invitation Committee and writes one, ten or a hun­dred I feel confident that our 30th Reunion will turn out a bigger crowd than our 25th. Do it now!!! 
We have one formal chairman at this time: RUDY GOEPFRICH. For those who returned in 1951 nothing more need be said. Rudy was a per­
 company." Athletic Director Ed Krause 

(sixth from left, standing) is shoun with members of Notre Dame Committee on recent visit to Jackson, Miss. Pictured with Krause arc (standing, left to right) Joe Palermo, '30; Jerry Devercaux, *52; Charles Koestler, '50; Homer Smith, Laivrcncc Hennessey, '27; R. F. Evans, *28; Harry Meyers, and Wm. H. (Bill) Miller, '30. Seated is Dr. Dan Reilly, chair­man of the Jackson Touchdown Club. 
fcct host and he will prove in '56 that he has lost none of his magic He has already tied up Morris Inn for our Friday night class dinner. And that is an achievement considering the other competition from other classes. Of course, he hasn't been able to tie up a hall for us for that depends upon the University's repair plans to determine whicJi halls will be ai'ailable for reunion. But v.'hen the word is out rest assured that Rudy will have '2G in there in a good spot. 
Our President, RjVY DURST, has been out of 
town lor some i**eeks, taktns a well esrncH r/orrda 
\-acation. Incidentally, he reported he has seen EDDIE LYNCH, another x-acationcr. several times. Ray will be back in Chicago shortly and has set up a meeting with your Secretary* and Trcas., GEORGE HARTXETT, to cr>staH(ze pJans for the reiinion. U'atcli your mail for announccm'.-nls. The first one will probably have a return card so plc.iic get it back promptly. (Perhaps you'll get that before this appears in the ALUMNUS.) I'd Hk­to burden my maii carrier with a hcivy 'Ttl b: there" rcspon-,c. 
He (the mail carrier) can stand it for he hasn't had to carr>- much aiai! for me from vou lellowi. To those -.'-.'lo fcJit Chnsttvai cards—my thanks. A feu" days ago I was startled (I believe -.hat is a well-clioscn word) lo receive a letter as class sccii­tary. It was from JERRV McDERMOTT who re­ported his tra\els through the vrrars and his prcirnt address in Baltimore wheic he is in the outdoor ad­vertising business. Unfortunately, his letter is at the office where I hope to answer it, so I can give neither his address nor his company- BUT. Jerr>" finished the letter by saying "I'll be back for the 30th." Win you say the same? Jerr\' did not get llic Xo. I rescrx'ation for that honor belongs to HAL KR^VUSER who told mc last fall at a foot­ball game to put his name down for June. But, first, fifteenth or what have you, the main thing is to report that you'll be there. 
JOE BACH scr\ed as line coacli on Lou Little's staff at Columbia University during the past foot­ball season. 
Say a prayer for our deceased classmates. 
1 OOy Steve Ronay "^ 1125 ^VoodIa^^•n South Bend 16, Indiana 
TO.M HEARDEN, t%ho has been assistant football coad) for tlie Green Bay Packers, lias just been appointed an assistant grid coach at the Univer­sity of Wisconsin. 
ROBERT G. HENNES is the author of a nei»' book entitled, ''Fundamentals of Transportation Engineering." Ife is a professor of civil engineer­ing at the University of Washington. 
1928 ^"^ ^-^"ck^cy
' 1253 North Central Ave. Chicago, Illinois 
BILL CRONIN has our most sincere s\-mpathy on the death of his oldest son. Ensign W. Vaughn Cronin, age 24, in October. Vaughn had attended Notre Dome for a year and then transferred to the Naval Academy wlicre he was graduated last ycar-Bill, Avho is Class \^ce-President and who did such an outstanding job as Chairman of the 25-year Class Gift Committee, has four other cliildren, Mary Helen (19). William (16), Ann Teresa (12) and Catherine Rose (7). Bill's address Is 26 Larchmont Avenue, Larclimont, N. Y­
I also want to extend our s>'mpathy to MIKE RICKS on the death of his father, age 94. Mike, Avho practices law in Lafayette, Indiana, is working on Bishop Bennett's Committee for a new Catholic high school. His eldest son is a sophomore at Georgetown University, and his 17-year-old twin sons will be graduated next June from Holy Cross Seminar^' at Notre Dame. 
The wife of JIM CONNER advised tfiat Jim suffered a cerebral hemorrhage last April, so severe tliat it has left hini completely paral>-zcd. Jim, who has been a victim of multiple sclerosis for many years, has two daughters at his home in Eltvood, Indiana, and a son serving in the U. S. Marines. Please remember Jim in your prayers. 
Congratulations to JIM SHOCKNESSY on his outstanding job as Chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission. The Toledo Blade made the follow­ing comment on October 1st on the opening of the turnpike, "By the proper blending of foresight 
GEORGE VERGARA, '25 
"The Battler" of Rockne's 1924 grid squadj has successfully progressed from football to poh'tics in tackh'ng all op­position. 
George Vergara, '25, monogram end on the Four Horsemen team and form­er professional football official, gave an exhibition of political broken-field run­ning on election day, November 8, scoring as an independent candidate in a three-way race to become mayor of New Rochelle, N. Y., by a margin of 
1200 votes. 
George took office January 1 in the city of 70,000 population. He had previously served eight years as city councilman. 
In winning the mayoralty, George defeated botli New Rochelle's 16-year Democratic incumbent and the Re­publican nominee, as well as over­coming such obstacles as "an unfriendly press and avicious whispering cam­paign." 
Credit for the victory, says George, 
goes to his campaign workers, a repre­
sentative cross-section of New Rochelle 
citizens. They ran interference for him 
in the hectic five-months of campaign­
ing, obtaining 5,091 signatures on his 
petition, which required 1200. Especi­
ally helpful was his wife. Dr. AUys 
Vergara, a faculty member at the Col­
lege of New Rochelle and a consultant 
at die United Nations. 
George is an insurance broker by 
profession, with offices at 400 Madi­
son Avenue, New York City. 
with hard-hcadcdness, of tact with drive, and a scrupulous insistence on honesty and integrity, Jim Shocknessy has done a truly outstandinglj^f job.'* The Cleveland Press commented, **One man kept the ^-ast project on the beam. He is Jim 
Shockncss>', the brilliant, jittery, dramatic, bossy chairman. Tlic big bald, pale bachelor, who looks like a bishop, and roars like a lion, did the job. Tlic turnpike today is pretty much Jim Shockncssy's monument.** JOHN" IGOE made the following obscrx-ation, "The East-West freeway IS a tribute to Jim's foresight, skill and ability and now he is starting preh'minary plans for the 
North-South turnpike.*' ^ ^ 
I w'as pleased to know that Father MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., has recently been elected First 'V7cc-President of the Catholic Economic As­sociation. Father Mark's book, *'Briiain Views Our Industrial Relations," was published in Janu­ary- by the University of Notre Dame Press. I had tlic opportunity to read the manuscript and recommend the book highly to you. 
JIM ALLAN gave me a report on the Southern Methodist game. He met BILL DOWDALL, RAV .MULLIG/\N, BERT KORZEN and DICK#' PHEL/\N there. I understand BILL KE/\RNEV and JOHN BRfVNNON also attended that game. GEORGE COVERT, MIKE HOG.VN and GENE BROWN were on hand for the Indiana game. I saw a number of classmates at the Na\y game, including MAURICE CONLEV. TOM TRAUBER, BILL DOWD.\LL, FR^VNaS (SAVEDE) SCHROE­DER, JOHN IGOE, and ED McSWEENEY. It was the first time I had seen MAURICE CON­LEY since 1928. His son, an N.D. student, was on duty at the Alumni Ser\'Ice booth. Maurice men­tioned how much he enjoyed seeing the 25-ycar^ reunion film, ^fau^icc, who sent out letters at th^ ^ time of the reunion, was unable to attend because of a case which arose the last minute. He is an attome>* and City Judge in Fulton, N. Y. Maur­ice has seven children, ages 6 to 21. 
JOHN IGOE writes as follows regarding the Navy game: "At the Navy game I sat next to our old track star 'BRUD' McSWEENEY. Brud is still a bachelor and still happily ensconced in a Sears office. He told me that JOE BR/VNNON had just won a Sears promotion and was doing a bang-up job as division manager in Arizona. And while talking of track stars, I must mention JOF ^ GRIFFJN. We had a short visit under the standi™ during which I heard about Joe's family and his move to Wilmettc. Joe has the finest smile and manner that make even a short visit memorable. In the stands I met AUGIE GR^VMS—and two of his beautiful daughters. Augie is still Burgo-Mcister of LaCrosse and looks delightedly content in his rule. 
"JOE MORRISSEY was on hand with his wife. He coaclicd the team on offense and JOHN POLISKY coached on defense. Their tactics, how­ever, were subject lo approval by HiVRRY O'BOYLE who was sitting nearby and playin;*^ head coach. Joe, in my opinion, merits a laure'r^ as one of Notre Dame's most rabid and devoted fans. John looks like he could play first string tackle. 
"On the wav to our bus I had a short chat with JIM CON.MEY, JERRY DeCLERCQ, TOM TRAUGHBER, SWEDE SCHROEDER and HAN­LEY MURPHY. It was a rainy, fogg>- afternoon, but all the '28ers wore smiles and in the cx­cliange of amenities pledged to sec each other at our 30th Reunion.*' 
My reliable reporter, ED R^VFTER, made thi*' Miami game where he saw FRANK DONOVAN, GEORGE COURY, BOB HAMILTON, F. X. O'BRIEN, CHRISTIE FL.VNNIGAN and PAT CVNNY. Ed visited Dr. BEN FRtVNKLlN in New York where he is Associate Professor of Pe­diatrics at Cornell University. Bvn has three boys. 
Wc had a great get-together at the Alumni Serv­ice Booth following the Iowa game with the fol­lowing: JIM ALLAN (Chicago), BILL MURPHY (Chicago), VINCE WALSH (MontJccIJo, Ill.)<^ BILL JONES (Washington, D. C) , BILL KIR # W/\N (Iowa City, Iowa), JERRY DeCLERCQ (Royal Oak, Mich.), BILL COYNE, *27 (Wash­ington, D. C) , Jx\CK DAILEY, *27 (Burlington, loua), and TOM (RED) DUNN, '27 (.Morris, 111.). I also saw JOE MORRISSEY. Tliat evening we got together wiUi FRANK DONOV/\N of Muske­gon who makes all the games.' Frank reports that CHARLEY McKENNEY*s son played in the back­iield witlj Pennsylvania against Kotre Dame this year. Later that evening we called JOE DORAN at Wheaton, III., and JOE BRANNON at Phoe­

42 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
nbc. Arizona. Both Joes arc with Sears, Roebuck A&Co. ^ Ten '28 men got together at the Xotrc Dame 
Club of Chicago Communion breakfast on Decem­ber 4, including BILL MURPHY, BILL KE.\R. NEY, DICK PHEL.\N, HOWIE PHALIX, BILL LE/\HY, JIM ALL/\N, JOHN RICIwXRD, JOHN LYONS, BERT KORZEX and vour class sccrelar>-. HOWIE PHrVLIX mentioned that he saw MICKEY FL/VNAGAN, who is practicing lau- in Pittston, Pa. Mickey is still single. BILL MURPHY saw BUCKY DAHMAX of Youngstoun, Ohio, at the _ Xa\Y game. Bucky has a son at Illinois Univer­
d|^ity. BILL LE/\HY, whose sister-in-law is married to JOHX GOCKE, reports that John is in the general' practice of medicine at 1401 South Hope Street, Los Angt'Jcs, Calif. John has seven cJiil­drcn. ages 3 to 21. 
DICK PHEL/VX was chairman of a luncheon in Chicago in honor of Xotrc Dame men who arc serving as judges in our local courts. They are Judge ROGER KILEY, '23, Judge NOR.\I^\N BARRY, *24, Judge EDWARD B. CVSEY, '24, Judge JOHX T. DEMPSEY, Judge JOHX LY­OXS, '29, Chief Justice RAYMOXD P. DRYMOL­

^SKI , '29, and Judge FR.\NCIS T. .\fcCURRIE, '27. 
"•Those attending from the Class ot '28 were BILL 
KErVRNEY, BERT KORZEX, JIM ALUVX and DICK PHELAX. 
I see ED LE/\HY, *29, at our parish church, St. Angela, where he is an usher. Incidentally, our church was designed by the arcltitcctural firm in which DAVID SMITH is a partner. Ed Leahy is manager of the Mavfield Cartage Companv. 
BILL D\\'\'ER of Raymond C. Hudson & Asso­ciates, Inc., called me recently to have lunch with PHIL O'COX'X'OR who u-as a visitor to our tou-n. Phil, who is still single, is senior film ser\'ice cor­

^^Tcspondent for Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester, 
X. y. At a recent Xotrc Dame meeting of class secretaries, the valentine mailing of BILL DW^'ER for our 25-ycar reunion received the most attention. 
VIXCE CARNEY of Rochelle, III., spent a fine evening with JOHN HERBERT recently in Boston. John, who Is with Will & Baumer Candle Company, has two children who, according to VInce, arc growing and *'waxlng strong." Incidentally, at the N\D. meeting of Class Secretaries cvcr>'onc was interested In our '28 shirts and ties used at our '28 reunion—(thanks to Vince Carney). 

A letter from our Vice-President JOHX IGOE, -imdcr the letterhead '*VisIniIne, Jackson & Ifioc* 
(0i'nc.", equipment rental and excavating, in addi­tion to the reports referred to above on the Xav>' game and on JIM SHOCKXESSY, contained the following interesting commenu: John concluded after visiting Buffalo this summer that "BILL DOWDALL, GUS JEXKIXS and BERXIE BIRD arc doing an exemplar>' job of keeping the '28 pennant flying high." On a recent visit with CHET RICE, John obser\'ed, "we relived moments of our reunion and planned on joining forces for No. 30 in '53. Chct sees RUSSELL SMITH at Cedar Point occasionally. Russ has been very successful in the building materials field and has become a figure of prominence in northern Ohio." After lunch with JOHX FOXTAXA and JOE KINNErVRY "to map out stratcglsms for their Foundation campaign," Igoe obsen*es, '*John is wonderfully recovered from his operation and still blessed with a sweeping sense of humor. Kinncary has achieved enviable stature In our legal ranks, but still delivers bon mots with the same quizzical Tcckicssncss that marked Iiim at school, .Anyone having lunch with Joe and John gels a new con­notation on the word repartee." John concluded his letter as follows: "JOHX -MURPHY Is closing out a highly successful term as president of our Columbus Club. Our football trip to the N'av>* game bolstered our treasury* and John has done a remarkable job of leading the club out of the slough in which I left it. 
"TOM HART has been to several Serra lunch-• cons and Is being considered favorably for mem­bership. He tells me his insurance activities arc proving profitable and justify his transfer to Columbus. 
"X'ot too long ago I met P.\T C/\XXY at the depot. ^V'e (terc both saddened by the tragic death of Dick Hllinsk! who was an All-Amerlcan tackle for Ohio State, and who under Pat's guidance had originally enrolled at X'otre Dame. Pat has moved up in the Xlckcl Plate's legal echelon and is, as ahv-ays, a real genuine X'otre Dame man. 
"And that, Louie, brings me to the end of the line. I am still tr>*ing (1) to justify my presence in the contracting business, (2) to hold the affec­tion of Mar>' and our six children, and (3) to live as a good exemplary Catholic. How successful I am or have been in any of these ventures is a deeply mooted point—but I will persevere." 
Our Vice-President, ART CxVXTY, attorney for 
the Prudential Insurance Co. in Los Anscles^ also 
favored us with a letter In November. Excerpts which will be of interest to all of you are as fol­lows: 
"Last month when In Xew York I talked to BILL CROXTN' on the phone. On the way home^ I stopped in Rochester for an evening with some ' old friends of mine and phoned JIM COXMEY who came over to visit for a little while^ I also talked on the phone to DOX CORBETT but didn't see him. 

RHODE ISLAND—Jim Murphy, '49, president of the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island (second from right) presents a Notre Dame class ring to Jules P. Goldstein, '95, one of -.N.D.'s oldest alumni. Club officials attending the presentation include {L to R): Rev. Robert ^C. Newbold, '49, club chaplain; Mr. Goldstein; John J. McLaughlin, *34, chairman of 
arrangements; Murphy and Joe McDonald, '39, \-ice-prcsident. 
"In Batavia, which yoii may recall is my home town, I saw briefly, among other relatives, my cousin TOM CANTY who has a daughter Rosanne who entered St. Mary's this fall. My sister's son. Jack Seiner, Is a sophomore at N.D., so you see the Canty family is being perpetuated out there to a certain extent. 
"As you no doubt know, FRAXK CREADON was out this way several months ago and we had a nice visit. We went downstairs to call on DICK ELPERS who is in the same building with me. Dick is with KFAC, a local independent radio sta­tion whose studios are located in our building. 
"MERV AGGELER Is now Judge Aggeler of the Municipal Court, Los Angeles County, Santa Monica Branch, haWng been elected to the bench a year or so ago. 1 have seen Aferv over the years a few times but not recently. I talked to HAL HUDSON a few days ago. Hal, as you will recall, was among the missing for years. I finally located him as General Manager for programming of CBS-TV in TV City, about a mile Irom here, a couple of years ago. In the last few months he has left CBS and is producing Zane Grey stories for TV films. 
"CHARLIE LYXCH, who has a very successful law practice here, has opened an oflice in Santa Barbara and is commuting between the two ofHces. He plans ultimately to move his family to Santa Barbara. He says he feels he may live a year or two longer if he can get away from the rat race of the L. A. Courts. Charlie has four children, two girls and adopted twin boys. His wife is a former South Bend girl whom I knew as Bobbie Albee. 
"I talked to DAVE GIBSON the other day. He is with the General of America Insurance Company and lives In San Gabriel. I don't believe I've seen Dave in eight or ten years. That Is one of the few disadvantages of this area, that Is, the dis­tances. 
"I discovered only recently that one JAMES R. McGONAGLE whom I had met several years ago without knowing that he had any connection with us, started with our class in 1924 but did not finish. He is located at 3300 Rodeo Road, Los Angeles, has his own real estate company and is presently engaged In selling off the Baldwin Hills, a large holding of the Baldwin Estate created by Luck>' Baldwin, one of the early colorful figures of this area. 
"I am now trying to get BART McHUGH to report to him the results of my efTorts to get some decent seats for the SG gome, in which effort I haven't done very well. At any rate, we will be able to get inside the park and I am sur« we will enjoy It very much. Bart as I have mentioned to you before, is still In Laguna. He ou-ns and operates the town toy shop and wouldn't leave Laguna for a million, according to him, that is. 
"Since I wrote you last, I have acquired a grandson and my son has been In Korea all of this year. Aside from that, there is nothing new with me." 
Our Vice-President^ JI.^f CANIZ\RO, architect and engineer In Jackson, Mississippi, obtained the following news as the result of his letter to '28 men in the South. TROY BOXNER Is still single and works for the Veterans Administration in Jackson. JOHN BERSCHEID is in the Comptrol­lers Department of the Tennessee Coal and Iron Division of U. S. Steel Corp. in Fairfield, Alabama. He has one son, 16 years of age. John sees Judge TOM TRAUGHBER of ClarksvUIe, Tenn., regu­larly and last summer he visited JAMES ROHL. GEORGE McLINEY Is still In the investment business, specializing In municipal bonds, with George K. Brown Sc Co. of Kansas City. George has four children, ages 3 to 18. I wish to extend our s>'mpalhv to George on the recent death of his mother, age 89. F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN has been In the stock brokerage business in Miami, Florida, with A. M. Kidder & Co., 139 E. Flagler St., since he returned from Japan with his family in 1951. Jim's oldest son, who is 25, went to X'.D. In 1951 and is now in the U.S.A.F. (S.A.C.). Jim has four other children, ages 16 to 23. He sees GEORGE COURY dally in Miami. George is a member of the Xew York Stock Exchange and makes his office with one of the Miami Brokers, Boche & Co. JOHX B. BUSCHEMEYER, who Is 
fVssociate Director of the Louis\'iIle General Hos­pital, Is President of the Kentucky Hospital Asso­ciation. John has two daughters and one son. His oldest daughter is a senior at Ursuline College. FRED SWrrZER, an attorney In St. Louis, Mis­souri, has six children, including one who Is a senior at Xotre Dame. JIM INGRAM'S son is now a member of his firm of architects and engi­neers in Louisville, Kentucky. Jim is now a grand­father. J. HARVEY DALY has his o^^•n tnanage­ment consultant business at 1627 K Street, X. W., 
Dame Alumnus^ March-Aprily 1936 43
Washington, D, C. As you know, Harvey has twms> bom in 1954. Harvey is on the staff of the graduate scliool of American University. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN is a grandfather for the second time. MARTIN J. KERWAN is a c'nil engineer w'nh the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. NIartin has donated 40 pints of blood through the American Red Cross. 
**Tlic Town Crier*' column by Jack Bell in a Miami, Florida, paper recently carried an inter­esting account of how GEORGE COURY, on a visit to his old Lebanon village birthplace, set up a program for liis friends and relatives there. Eacli family was put to work, at the prevailing wage, building terraces on a mountainside owned by George and planting grapes. The columnist concludes "The whole village loves George now. They're ^vorking, have self respect, foresee even better and more jobs now, with the first grape crop coming on. George is happier about the far­away mountainside project than anything else he has done." 
R.AY MULLIG.AN, Assistant Secretary- of the Chicago Title and Trust Company, on a recent trip to Lafayette, Indiana, spent some time with MIKE RICKS who is general counsel and director of the National Homes Acceptance Corporation. On the same trip, Ray met ART SCHEBERLE of De­troit Edison Company at citurch one morning in Detroit. 
Pauline and I combined attendance at the meet­ing of the American and Catholic Economic .Asso­ciations in New York wiih a celebration of our twenty-fiftli wedding annlversar>' in December. We enjoyed luncheon on December 29th with GEORGE CRONGEYER at the Columbia Univcrsitv Club. BERNIE GARBER and his wife and BILL CRO­NIN were also present. It was a great session which lasted far into the afternoon. George, who is still single, is with the Metropolitan Life In­surance Company. He recently received an M.S. degree from Columbia University. BILL CRONIN, who has his headquarters at the Biltmorc Hotel, tells mc that JOHN FLYNN, a member of our class for a few years at N.D.^ is now a Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. BERNIE GARBER looks as well and young as ever after recovering from a very serious operation. Bernic and Dorothy had just taken their five cliil­dren. a,:;es 7 to 13, on a tour of the Christmas spots in New York City. 
Our classmate. Father MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., who was also attending the economic as­sociation meetings in New York, offered Mass for us on our silver wedding anniversary*. 
It was a pleasure to meet JACK LAVELLE on Fifth Avenue. Jack was hurrj-ing from his ofiice with the N. Y. Baseball and Football Giants to his home in West Hempstead on Long Island. Jack has lost 60 pounds and expects to lose 60 more. Jack, who did such an outstanding job as toast­master at our 25-year reunion, is in public relations and scouts for the New York Giants. He is also Lambert Football Trophy Director. Jack was married in 1946 and has two children, ages 8 and 5. 
We were plrasantly surprised by a visit from JOE REPETTI at our New York hotel with an anniversary gift. Joe, who is in the insurance and real estate business in New York, has a son age 13 and a daughter age 18. Joe inquired about RON RICH. Ron, who celebrated Ins 25th wed­ding anniversary on September 30. last year, is head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame- He has a son at Purdue, another at Notre Dame and a daughter who attended St. Mar\*'s. ROIL, in addition to his academic interests, is quite acti\'e in square dance callers' groups. 
I talked to'STEVE SHERRY, who is with BER­NIE GARBER at the Lx-man T. Corbin Company in New York. Steve sees BILL REILLV who is Promotional Director for the *'^gn." Steve re­ported that • DICK GREEN of Muncie and his wife spent Neiv Year's Eve with the Sherrx-s in New York. Dick, who is a columnist and editorial writer for the "Muncie Star*' was given the AMVET "Certificate of Merit"- for community ser^"­ice recently. The Eastern Indiana N.D. Club gave Dick the club's "N.D. Man of the Year" award in 1953. 
JOHN ANTUS is in prix-atc law practice at 342 Madison Avenue in New York City. He has tlirec children, ages 9 to 13. John also teaches at Co­lumbia University. I understand John has been assisting in the N.D. Foundation drive in N.Y.C. 
I am aware of the following silvrr anniversaries of classmates in early 1956: BOB KIRBY, Jan. 3; JACK MULLEN, Jan. 17; ED DUFFY, Jan. 20; VINCE.Vr HE.VRY, Feb. 14; HAROLD RUPPEL, April 23. Please advise mc of others in 1956 who should be added to this list. 
For the first time in years I have the pleasure of announcing a marriage in this column. PAT VARRA\'ETO of 3607 Brunswick, Los Angeles 39, California, and Gloria Fredericks became engaged on November 3, 1955. It is my understanding that the wedding date was February II, 1956. Pat is an architect with Lockheed Aircraft Corporation. He is involved in the direct design and construction of new buildings and facilities. 

JOHN "BOTTS" CROWLEY, who is in sales promotion in professional baseball with the Mac­Gregor Company, saw TED TWOMEY in Jack­sonville, Florida. Ted is selling Millers High Life. FRED RAHAIM has given up coaching and is now in insurance and real estate in Jacksonville. When in New York, Botls sees JOHN ROACH, '26, who is with Calvert. He refers to JACK LAVELLE as one of the top men on the fried chicken circuit. Botts had a conducted tour through CHRIS FIw\NAG.\N's "fish factory" at Port Arthur recently. He sees JOE MORRISSEY, the most active N.D. man in Cincinnati, and PAT G-VNN'Y and his family in Cleveland regularly. 
TOM NOON, who is a Colonel in U. S. Marine Corps., is Commanding Ofiiccr at the Marine Corps Air Facility, New River, N. C. His present address is 2100 MOQ, Marine Corps Base, Camp Lejcunc, Jacksonville, N. C. Tom has a son at San Diego Slate, another at Notre Dame and a third at St. Peter's College. He also has a daugh­ter age 7. 
CHARLEY TOPPING of Roclicster is New York District Sales Representative with the Industrial Products Division of Johns Manville Sales Corp. He has three sons ages 7 to 17. 

JACK MULLEN of Bronwillc, N. Y., is senior copy writer on radio and telei'ision, ESSO Standard Oil Co. and Standard Oil (New Jersey). His busi­ness address is McCann-Erickson, Inc., 50 Rocke­feller Plaza in New York. Jack*s oldest daughter was graduated from Cornell and now has a Ford Fellowship at Yale. i\nother daughter is at Elmira. A third daughter is in high scliool. Jack sees ROBERT M. TROTTER, '29, General Manager of Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company and JO­SEPH F. TIMLIN, vice-president in charge of radio and television for the Branham Company. 
LEO >L\NNS of Grosse Pointe, Michigan, is directory* sales manager for the ^lichigan Bell Yellow Pages. CLARENCE HAVEN is uith Indus­trias Kaiser, Argentina, S. A., Pasco 3736 Ave. lib. Gral, S. Martin, AHvos, Buenos Aires, Argentina. GERALD McGILL's new address is 8J4 South- Far-well Street- Eau Claire, Wis. 
DICK QUINLAN tells me that JOHN CAIN is practicing law in Elkins, West Virginia. Joh4[\ has two children. BOB MOHIALVN, who is in the jewelry business in Lafayette, Indiana, has four children. DICK QUINLAN is an attorney in tlic office of RAY KELLY, '15, Chairman of the Rail­way Retirement Board in Chicago. CYP SPORL writes under the letterhead of C. A. Sporl & Co., insurance brokers and average distributors, New-Orleans, that he spent some time with PAUL BUTLER, *27, and PAT MANION recently when they spoke there. He also has an opportunity to visit with HARRY STUHLDREHER when he Is speaking in New Orleans as an executive of U. SWj Steel. C>-p*s brother Harold has been recovering nicely from his recent illness. He also sees BILL DREUX and JULES DE L.\ VERGNE who arc active working for the N.D. Foundation. JUDGE JOE B LA CHE of Hammond, Louisiana, recently underwent a serious operation. Cyp had spoken to RUBE MOMSEN from El Paso who saw the 
S.M.U. game. He concluded by commenting on the deaths of STEVE WOZNIAK and BERNARD NAULTY. 
HAROLD RUPPEL of Cleveland is \^ce-Pre5i^ dent of .the U.S. Truck Lines, Inc., and Presiden.. J^ of Republic Supply Company. He has a married daughter and another daughter age 17. Harold ser\*ed as a member of the council of the village of Aforeland Hills, Ohio, from .1948 to 1953. He has been editor for 20 years of the U. S. Truck Lines house organ, *'Cross Roads." 
Doctor DAN BR^VDLEY tells mc that AL T.AY­LOR is an attorney with the Treasury- Department in the Customs Branch In New York. Al has one daughter. Dan also reports that JOE KANE is teaching scliool. Dan has three daughters age 3 
to 13. 0j 
ROSCOE BONJE^VN was selected by the slate­maklng committee of the Democratic party to be tlieir candidate for Lieutenant Governor of the State of Illinois. Many of you will recall Roscoe in our classes at Notre Dame. He practices law in Spring­field, Illinois. He was graduated In law at Illi­nois University. The last I had heard about Roscoe was from Father JIM McSH^VNE, S.J., who men­tioned that Roscoe had attended his first solemn Mass. 
I want to remind you that Father JIM Mc-SHANE, S.J., will say his annual Mass for the 
Mr. and Mrs. Les Raddatz, '33, have some future candidates for Notre Daiiie and St. Mary's. Front row: Eric, Irene, Molly and Paul. Back row: Les, Ann, Mark, Lynn and Mrs. Raddatz. 
44 • Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
«> 
JOHN M. KUHN, '44 
As vice-president in charge of sales for the General Binding Corporation, John M. Kuhn, '44, is responsible for operations of the company's branches throughout North America and Eu­rope. 

* Previously serving as sales manager, Kuhn had supeivised the Chicago firm's change from a distributor sales system to a branch manager organiza­tion. 
GBC is the world's largest manu­facturer of plastic and metal book binding equipment and supplies. Its 

4J products are used by business offices and the graphic arts industrj' to bind duplicated, printed, written or t)'ped materials. 
He was with die Chicago sales de­partment of the Dow Chemical Com­pany before joining GBC in 1951. 
A native of Stockton, Calif., he was 

((I reared in Evanston, 111., and now re­sides at 1139 Butternut Lane, North-brook, III. 
John was graduated magna cum laude from Notre Dame in 1943 with a bachelor's degree in chemistr)'. He was president of his class in his senior year. 

* Kuhn served as an officer in the Naval Air Corps from 1943 to 1946, spending nine months in meteorolog)' school at the University of Chicago and later stationed aboard the U.S.S. Palau. 
John and his wife, Darlene, are the parents of two children, Dick, 7, and Donna, 3/a­
living members of the Class of 1928 on the last Sunday in April, the 29th. Please remember our group when you attend ^[ass that day. Father McShane continues his good work at Sacred Heart Church at Denver. Tliis fall he took 54 people to St. Ann de Beauprc. mostly in wheel diairs and stretcliers. Father Jim serves on the scholarship committee of the Notre Dame Club of Denver. 
R. W. COLLINS is tile co-author of an article on emergency radio-telephone systems for the Bell Telephone X.aboratories magazine. He and his wife. Rose, are the parents of two children, Michael and Carol. 
JAMES A. DEVLIN has been appointed manager of the Dayton odice of the Ohio Bureau of Un­empIo\'mcnt Compensation. 
1 929 ^^^^^^ J- Plunkett 
Biology Department Notre Dame, Indiana 
JOHN B. SULLIVAN, '29, was on the campus Xovcmber 29th and contacted several of his friends among the pncsis and on the faculty. ^Vthong these was PAUL BARTHOLOMEAV, '29, Professor of Political Science at the University. They had a good visit over coffee in the faculty Tower Lounge of O'Sliaughncssy Hall. They discussed campus changes, classmates, and John*s work. He is Director of Public Relations, Education and Research for the New York Slate Commission Against Discrimination with headquarters in New* York City. He was on the campus to speak to Dr. John Kane's students In Sociology. 
JOE WHALEX, member of the Alumni Board of Directors, was elected 1956 chairman of the Des ^foi^cs (lou'a) Convention Bureau at its annual winter meeting. Joe Is general manager of the Hotel Ft. Des Moines. 
WILLIAM D. GILDER was recently appointed chicf metallurgist of Reed Roller Bit Company, Houston, Texas. 
1 930 ^^^'c^c Flunkett 
0*Shaughncssy Hall 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
BERNIE CONROY wrote of a recent Communion Breakfast held by the Pittsburgh Club. This gave him a chance to chat with HUGH GALLAGHER, JLM MORGAN, JOE CLARK, BILL &UGAR­RAL and DUKE KINGSLEY. Bemie's account of the Nax-y game weekend brought up the names of DAN aVNNON, CHUCK ROHR, JOHN QUINN and FRANK KERJES. Bcmie mentioned recent notes he had from JIM WALSH of Texas and from CON OXREY. 
KARL BRENN'/\N, class vice-president of the 
west area, came by the office late last summer for 
a visit. He was with his son, a student at Notre 
Dame of very fine promise. W© replayed a fc^v 
scenes of the 25th reunion. Karl is still head man 
at Grant's in Rockford. 
The news of ED BLATT'S death this fall was a 
shock to his many friends still at Notre Dame. 
Class members \vill remember him and his family 
in their prayers. 
A recent note from lawjer JOHN HEILKER, Cincinnati, was a welcome mail item. Another '30 lawyer, JIM WALSH of Dallas, wrote of hb alumni club's activities. Things will be popping next September for Jim and his Dallas colleagues with the ND-SMU game scheduled for the evening of September 22. Jim's name was mistakenly omitted from the ALUMNUS list of '30 Reuniomtes last June, but all the official lists carry* the names of James Walsh and William Walsh. 
A unique Christmas card from CHET ASHMAN was a pleasant mantle decoration. Chet, chair manufacturer in Morristown, Tennessee, also wrote of a wonderful project he is involved in: 
"I was sorry to have had to miss the class re­union, but it came at a time when it was im­possible for me to get away. 
*'TIiis approaching holiday season finds us a little nearer to getting a church built here in Morristown; the town's population is 17,000 with only about 50 Catholics; we have been meeting everj* Sunday in the City Hall with our priest coming down from Greenville which Is about 30 miles from here. Through the efforts of Father Seiner, a cliurch was built in GreeneWlIe the early part of the year, and N.D.'s V.P. came down for the dedication. 
"With the \'arious Industries here suitable prop­erty for a cliurcli is something almost In the classi-, fication called extinct. But \vc have found a piece that wc have a chance to get and are working on it now; so perhaps by spring we can at last get started on a much-needed church. So remember us in your prayers." 
GEORGE J. KOZAK, '33 
Former Irish tackle and ND frosh 

coach of the early thirties, George J. 
Kozak, '33, is now a leading luminary 
in Cleveland's physical welfare pro­
gram for youth and a chief crusader on 
juvenile delinquency. 
As Director Supervisor of Physical Welfare for the Cleveland Board of Education, George has been guiding the cit)''s high school and youth sports programs since 1931. 
After a 10-year tenure as a Cleve­land high school football and track coach, he stepped in as supervisor of physical education in 1943, and has been winning increasing acclaim through innovation of a number of successful youth activities. 
Among his ventures include an 

A.A.U. Junior 01)'mpics; Spring Base­ball farms for boys; Physical Education Decathlon program and most recently, a basketball clinic for junior high boys throughout the city. 
His eflforts to combat juvenile de­linquency are receiving national atten­tion through the development of "Teen Centers" and the promotion of pro­grams run by teen-agers and guided by an adult committee of outstanding Cleveland cidzens. 
He received an M.A. degree from Ohio State in 1941. His coaching career in Cleveland includes City Championships at John Adams High in 1937 and 1939. George is past president of the Ohio Physical Edu­cation Association. 
A news story and picture on the local society-page sliowed dentist EUGEXE GE\'ER and fam­ily hanng a great Iioli'day m Hau-ait. 
Judge TOM McDOUGAL wrote recently about his son 5cr\'ing now in the Marines but due out next June. Tlic Judge did not mention politics but there must be things a-slirring In U'lsconsm in 195G. 
JIM ARMSTRONG and the Alumni Office here arranged three interesting days of activities for the Class Secretaries. December 9, 10 and 11. Most of the secretarial functions were subjects of panel discussion and mucli of the time was given to plan­ning reunion 'affairs for future meetings. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOH.\ QUIXX were at the Michi­gan State game and our chat before the game was one of the few pleasant memories of that visit to Lansing. 
Attending the annual conference of .Academic Deans last week in St. Louis, I had a chance to visit briefly with BOB HELLRUNG at an alumni luncheon. He still regrets missing the affair last June. 
Tlic news about MOOX MULLINS* coming closer to home (Director of Athletics, Marquette Univer­sity) makes lots of people happy in South Bend. 
TIM TOOMEY of Brooklj-n, class vice-president in the eastern region, was saddened by the death of his father on November 12- Tim can be as­sured of the prayers of the 1930 classmates. He sent along plenty of news from the East: 
"Dev, what I say here you probably have heard many times since I saw you on the Campus during the Reunion, but I would like the opportunity of telling other classmates who could not be with us, you and your capable helpers did one grand job! 
"Sfany of those present, and seeking rest in early hours, would have liked to have strangled tlic bugler who gave the horn the Louis Armstrong treatment. FRAN MESSICK is discredited with the idea. 
"The Reunion would not have been a party to pleasantly recall if it did not come up with a yam or two which pleased the gathering as a whole. As \-ou well know, there \vere several spon­
tuneaus collections, all for \Tr>' worthy projects. 
Any time the hat was passed, the Reunioneers responded. Come Saturday afternoon, someone passed tlie basket and announced, 'A collection to end the collections.' 'This to hire a Brinks truck to transfer the preWous coWcclora and their loot to a neighboring state.' 
".•\nothcr classmate was informed he would be canonized while on earth, by simply remarking he was *on the wagon' for obvious reasons. 
"The gathering was a joyous get-together for all who were fortunate enough to be able to come back to the University for three vcr>' wonderful days. Our prayers are asked for tlie wife of DR. GEORGE HEWSON who died the week before the Reunion, IcaWng six. children, including George, Jr., a recent graduate. 
"Misfortune befell JIM DILLEY and his family during Reunion weekend with the accidental drown­ing of his second son, Edwin, age 14. Jim planned to make the Reunion his first visit back to scliool since 1930. He was to have made the trip on the 
•Pacemaker' with JIM DEELEY, DUTCH HEN­SENKA.MP, ED ARTHUR and m>-self. *'Pray for the families of Doc and Jim as well as all Notre Damcrs. 
"BUS REDGATE and myself had a pleasant visit to St, Mary's where I renewed friendships yvith many of the gals (they were gals 25 years ago) who were students there during my appren­ticeship as engineer of the dishwasher at the 'Col­lege Across the Highway.' 
"JOE ABBOTT created a mild hurricane on the trip back to New York, by double talking the train conductor Into believing tlie passengers were in the proper scats, but on the wrong train. Joe was honored by fellow Notre Damcrs from Jersey for his devotion to the ideals of the school at a smoker following the Reunion. 
"I got a real wallop out of a long evening walk about the Campus with Dapper DAN CANNON and BERNIE CONROY, and a blow-by-blow de­scription of Ohio politics, as told by the Dip in his own Inimitable manner. 
"f have seen FR.-INK DXJSS and TO.M BR^\D­LEY since our return, and both were pleased with the report of the proceedings. 
"ART DENAHY was prevented by surgery from making the trip back to scliool. He is sloivly regaining his health. 
"TO^r MURPHY of Fairfield, Conn., joins the grandfather group along with PAUL FARMER of local residence. Classmates with sons who have graduated from University, moke up a group with nimibcrs as large as class Itself. 
"I am grateful to those who selected me as an eastern \icc-presidcnt ot the class, and I have 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
already presented a temporarj* account of my stcwrardship to CHICK DRISCOLL, our standard bearer, who deservedly received recognition for his unfaltering loyaltv to the University and to Class of 1930. 

"I trust all who could not make the Reunion will keep in touch with you so your records will continue to be as accurate as they have been in" the past. 
'*It was a good thing I picked out a space easy to locate in the class picture so I would have no trouble spotting myself when the picture arrived. A few of the lads will never be able to prove they attended the Reunion by showing the picture to their offsprings. 
"For the Interest of historians, JOHN O'DON­NELL showed me a snapshot taken on graduation day in June 1930, the group including JACK, HUGH GALLAGHER, GIL PENDERGAST and CO.>L\IANDER FARR.\GUT O'.MALLEY. The same quartette posed for another picture during the Reunion. For those Interested In clean living and their many friends, the black and white photos do not bring out grey hair and 'Fred Allen eye bags' of the boj-s. 
*'JIM FRIEL has purchased a new home in Rumson, New Jersey, VINCE McCUE's bailiwick. I trust James does not play any of the horses Xlnny may bo touting at nearby ^lonmouth Track. 
"Father Jim Rizcr has been transferred to Port Riclimond, Va.. from Fort Monroe, Virginia. Mail addressed to him at Our Lady of Blessed Sacra­ment Church at Port Riclimond from the 'gang' will he greatly appreciated. Port Richmond is the spot where all those impoverished ecclesiastical cliurcli mice hall from. 
"ART DENAHY and JOHNNY BURNS ('31) \isiied DR. JOHN PREECE at his farm near Trenton, X. J., in October for a pleasant weekend, which included a look-see at Garden State Race Track. The trio was joined on Sunday by NOR­MAN LILLIG and CHUCK KLEFEKER. Nashua %v*as not for sale then or this sv'ndlcate w*ould have put in a bid. 
"TIM O'ROURKE told me at N. Y. Universal Communion Breakfast, at Waldorf, he went out to Navy game and met *DAN THE MAN' CANNON whne at school. TO.M BRADLEY and JOE KELLY were also at breakfast. X'^o news from either one. 
"HENRY FREY sent me a note he is with Sofia Bros. Warehouses here In X'. Y., and while at Penn Football game, he met CHUCK ROHR and a fel­lou-u-arehouscman, GEORGE WX'KLER. His son, ^ Junior, age 11, made the trip to be introduced to ^ up and coming generation of X'otre Dame lads, and to keep his Dad in tow. 
"Had a reply to a recent inquiry- from JIM DEE­LY, and he writes JOHNNY HOFFMAN Joined him at dinner while on recent business trip to N. Y. —a meeting of Vecps! Jim is at Brooklyn Union Gas, and John with Microfilms of Pennsylvania. Jim travelled with his cheerleader daughter from Yonkers to nearby Ossining, and watched JIM DILLEY's basketballers go down to defeat at hands ^ of Yonkers! ^ 
"Word from New Kensington, Pa., brings news BERNIE CONROY sent you enough data to fill a book. He did make mention he took in X^av>­gamo with 'LITTLE BOOM,' and he learned JACK launched his new Montgomery Wards at the Iowa game- DAX' says with his new 'choppers' JACK Is considering entering the 'Winning Smile Contest* as Ohio's entry. 
"In a cheerful note from ED ARTHUR, he re­lates JOE HEXXESSY, wife and Joe, Jr. (Ed's ^ godson), a senior at school, visited Long Island ^ 9 this summer. Joe Is a South Bend insurance biggie. Tlie Hennessys have a daughter at Marquette. CHARLIE DUFFY addressed the Long Island Divi­sion of the X'otre Dame Club of N. Y. In Septem­ber-His talk covered Atom Energy* in. Po«'cr In­dustry. Charles Is a V. P. with Long Island Light & Power. Ed, his wife and three children arc all active members of Notre Dame parish in New Hyde Park, L. I. 
"Met JOE FRIEL ('29) this week In vicinity of Chrysler Bldg., where Joe and brother Jim toil for Calvert-Seagrams. Jos informed me his father has ^ 6 been seriously ill, and is presently confined to a \ocd hospital. Include Air. Friel along with all others in the class gct-well prayers. 
"Had a nice chat with WARREN FOGEL, via telephone, in response to my inquiry of his where­abouts. He missed reunion because of an unfor­tunate switch in business plans. He did get the low-down on the doings xvlien the Fogcls—\\'arrcn, his bride and the four youngsters—paid a visit to the JOHN MOTZS' in Kitchener, Ontario, last August. John has a small army of sLc children. John is editor-publisher of the well-known Kitchen­er-Waterloo Record. Tlie Motz family plans a^% European trip this summer, and were given the 
These attractive youngsters are children of Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Siddall, '36, of Appleton, Wis. 
KANSAS CITY—Officers of the Kansas City ND Auxiliary recently held a business mcetinsr 
^a t the home of the re-elected president, Mrs. Sam S. DiGiovanni {third from left). Club officers (left to ri^ht) arc Mrs. Frank Grinialdi, corresponding secretary; Mrs. F. Phillip Kirwan, recording secretary-; Mrs. DiGiovanni; Mrs. C. Craig Whitaker, vice-president and Mrs. Norman M. Bones, treasurer. Not present for the picture is Mrs. Frank McGee, auditor. 
•Cook Tour' treatment by Warren and the MLssxis. who crossed the Atlantic in 1954- to visit the Con­tinental waterini; places. 

"Durjnff the holidays, I vJsiitd FATHER D--\X -GLE.\SON, C.S.C., at the Holy Cross Novitiate in ^ ^ Bennington, Vermont, in the heart of the Green Nrotiniain winter-sumnuT resort region. Father Dan 
i.s well known to the New Yorkers, as he was the first Xew V<irk City policeman to recttve Holy Orders. .-Ml travelers from Notre Dame who stop by to visit liim at the beautiful estate hoiisini; the novices, will always find a warm welcome from him."' 
TIERNEY O'ROURKE has been promoted to an executive assistant in the Group Insurance Dcparr­menl of the New York Life Insurance Companv. 
FR.VNK X. .-VM.VTO has recently purchased the Canary ^^otcl and Trailer Courts in West Mon­roe, La. 
1931 J^"^*^ "^^ ^°y^^ 
2001 Grcenleaf Street Evanston, Illinois 
Flash! DAN CL<\RK has accepted the chairmanship of the local reunion commit­tee for the Class of 1931. He will appre­ciate any suggestions that you have for making your doss reunion enjo^tible and 
I successful. His address Is 2139 Berkeley-Place, South BemI 16, Indiana. 
This IS the IGth day of the first month in the new year and I feel we have a long lime until June for the TWE.\TY-FIVE YE.-VR REUNION. However, before we realize it June will be upon us and in order to make this a successful reunion now is the time to make plans. Some of you have reccii'ed Jetlers horn Chicago soliciting your liclp and cooperation. Many interesting replies have been received and if they arc any indication of the spirit behind the class of 1931 we will have the best reunion ever. Among the carlv replies was this letter from JOHN DORSCHEL: 
"Dear 'Snaky Hips': 
"It was good to hear from you and I will do anything I can to help promote the reunion. I would like to know the dates (Ed, Note: Reunion We-kend dates arc June 8-9-10. Rtiom rcserx'ati'on, :n advance, is not neccssar>' although it'd be help­ful to Reunion Committee if you could inform them if you plan to attend.) and the necessary ar­rangements for rooms, etc., so that I can talk intelligently about it. 
"TOM ASHE was here a few Weeks ago and I had a nice visit with him. I must say my social contacts are not what tliey should be because I have become very active in Sew York State Auto­mobile Dealers .-Association activities and the Ro­chester Automobile Dealers .'Association activities, acting as VP for both organizations. I am looking forward to the reunion with great interest and an­ticipation and have my fingers crossed that h will not conflict with the National Open Golf Champion­ship which is being held at our Club on June 14, 15 and 16. If the reunion is on the above dates, you might have to select another "boy" because I doubt I could get away at that time. Hoping to see you next June, I remain** 
JOHN DORSCHEL 
As you know by now, John, there will be no conflict with the National Open to be held at Rochester. I have managed to sec TO.M ^VSHE occasionally during a Chicago stopover on his trans­continental treks. My wife and I had dinner with Tom and his charming wife, Kathie, on their last trip. Tom mentioned having seen FRANK BE;\TTIE, a former Howard Haller in 1927, who is now a Vice-President of the Chemical Corn National Bank in New York City. 1 understand that Frank met DON 0*TOOLE and his father at a bankers' luncheon in NYC. Tom last saw MATl' CULLINAN in the spring of 1955 as Matt was preparing for another session of foreign duty. I do hope that Matt will he on hand next June to tell of his travels. 
OONIE DONOVAN sent the following note: 
Dear Jim: 
*'This brief note to acknowledge receipt of your letter of November lOtli and to assure you of my interest in the 25-year reunion as well as my whole-hearted cooperation. /As soon as I have re­ceived the current class list which you refer to m yotu- letter I shall undertake the task you have 
assigned me and will keep you laiormed !rom time 
to time as to progress I am making. Meanwhile, kindest regards and best wishes. Please remember me to EDDIE RYAN and FRANK McADAMS." 
OONIE (Clarence J. Donox-an} 
And from FREDDIE R/\HAIM news of our south­eastern classmates: 
Dear Jim: "Count me in! If the Lord is willing and every­thing goes well, I plan on seeing you at our reunion in June. I have been looking forward for some time to this reunion and I hope nothing-happens to keep me from being there. I am very anxious to see some of the old classmates and to-sec what time has done to some of the boys. 
"I used to see BOB BALFE down in ^Vcst Palm Beach on my occasional trip there, but have not had an opportunity to see him recently. I saw BOB GORE up at school two years ago when they had the meeting of the presidents of the va­rious alumni groups. RAY NEU lives here lit Jacksonville, but It is very seldom that I see Ray. "We have had a very active alumni group here ii> Jacksonville, but for some unknown reason, Ray never attends. 
"I ran into ART BERGEN down in Miami when-I was down there to see Notre Dame play Miami and T was most happy to see him again. FARIS COAVART still holds forth In Miami. As you may know, he is our N.D. Foundation governor down there. 
"Jim, I hope in the near future I will be able 
to uncover more Information for you. If I do, T 
surely will let you know. Yours for a successfuF 
reunion.'* 
FREDDIE 
(Fred J. Rahaim) 
I see by the papers that the handsome alderman, NICK BOHLING, will be the Republican candi­date for Secretary of State in Illinois, so TO^^ MONAHAX. PAUL GRANT. MIKE KIN^NEY­and many others downstate be sure to remember Nick at the April lOth primary-. I hope many of you have time to drop JIM McQUAID an occasional note plus a subscription or two. Jim and Marie-do a fine job and send me a news>* letter two or three times a year. 
Dear Jim: "My apologies for not writing you for Jim, con­cerning the subscriptions you so kindly sent hint in November. As you can sec by the enclosed re­ceipts, they were sent to our distributor on No­vember I6th, the day we received them. We heZcT them up In sending an Invoice to you, because they were not listed, and we did not know the price . . . so far the information has not been sent to us, but the subscriptions did go in immediately . . . sometimes at Christmas time it takes from four to six weeks to get action .. . so we will let you know when we hear. 
"One reason I did not write sooner is due to the fact that I am not with Jim in our ne^v little-place, since I sold my part of the shop, I have been working in a drug store . . . still trying to-make ends meet and pay up our debts we accumu­lated In tr>-ing to keep the larger store going­
(our original shocsttias ot $25.00 was too small I 
guess) . . . but an>-%**ay we have been tr^'ing to-place ourselves In *thc Palm of His Hand' as the-Irish say, and we know- that all will be well . . . at least, we seem to be more resigned to the things which have happened, and our benefits have been more spiritual than material . . . and that after all, is the way it should be. 
"Jim and I got quite a kick out of the letter in the ALUMNUS In the '31 column and have received a note from REGIS KUHN, '32, 42? ^Veldon St., Latrobc, Pa. Jim says he was on the track team .. . he has six children and to quote­'stacking us up against ELDER (9), LEAHY (8), McBRIDE (8) and CROWE (10) we're Just pick­ers at offspringing at that basis. J.ACK ELDER's address is Sinclair Refining Co., 5410 College, In­dianapolis 20, Ind. 
"Jim is really looking forward to the Reunion in June and is starting a "piggy" bank to save his pennies. I am looking for%%'ard to going, too, and sure hope some of the other wives will go. .. . I'd lo%*e to meet some others who succumbed to the charm of these Notre Dame fellowsl They've got something that only K.D. men have . . . believe me. Thanks so much, Jim, for all you have done, 

and \vc sincerely hope and pray that your Christmas x\in be a wonderful one for you and your family." JIM AND MARIE (Mac's Drivc-ln Magazine Rack) 
GENE VALLEE stopped in the ofHcc the latter part of Xovcmbcr and mentioned having seen JERRY HOLLAND at the Miami game party in the Shclboumc Hotel. RED 0*CONNELL saw the following at the Miami game: GEORGE BRAUTIGAM, JOHN REED, CHARLIE CUSH­WA and FRANK LEAHY. Gene told mc that BILL MORPHY now has eight children and had two boys at Culver Militarv* Academy in 1954; Bill expects to attend the Reunion. BOB GORE has written that he will be in town and I am looking forward lo his \-isit. 
Dear Jim: " I will be very* glad to work i\-ith you in regard to the class rrunion of the Class of *3I. As far as I know, there are three graduates of the '"SI Class in the Fort Lauderdale Chib with a tew in the Miami area and the Jacksonville area, so, forward •on your class list and I will do my best to carry on from there. I noticed your last news of. the <Jass in tlic current issue of the ALUMNUS and I can't help but tell you once more that I feel a better job is being done for the *31 Class than for any other year's graduates. *'I may be in Chicago this winter and will make it a point to look you up since our own offices arc at the same address that 1 note on your leltcr­bead. It will be nice to get news of the Chicago men from the Class of '31, most of whom 1 know very well. Locally wc are making plans for our second .Annual Notre Dame State Convention in Fort Lauderdale. This will take place the latter part of April next year. TIic first convention was so successful that it calls for a repeat on a larger scale. ^Htl) tvami personal regards, I am" BOB GORE 
CHARLIE CUSHWA abo promises to be on hand next June: 
"Please excuse my tardiness in replying to yooir letter of the 14th. I spent several days at Notre Dame in the interim attending a meeting of the Science and Engineering Council and incidentally seeing the Iowa game and our two boys who are at school. I will be glad to do anything I can to iielp make our 25th a bigger and better Reunion. The list you mentioned has been received and I'll say right now there were a lot of names I don't remember at all. Guess I am getting old. I saw RED O'CONNELL and FRED RAHAIM at the Miami game. I haven't seen either in many years, but had no difficulty in recognizing or in being Tecognizcd. Hovv-c\*er, it is *Whitey* O'Connell now instead of 'Red.' When, aSj and if I de­velop any data, I'll forward it to ^-ou." 
CHARLIE CUSHWA, JR. 
I talked to EDDIE AGNEW and he is planning on making the Reunion. £d is Bailiff of Judge 
^Ir. and Mrs. Frances J. "Red" Davis, '49, used their Christmas cards to introduce their newest member, five-months-old Beverly, in this family portrait. The young Davises, left to right, are: Ruth, 4; Paul, 6; Beverly; Joseph, 7; and Ralph, 3. The Davises are tied with Dr. and Mrs. John N. Fogel, '38, for the largest alumni family in the San Diego Club. 

Q M- Verbicst, Foundation Governor of Michigan, called a *check-up' meeting in his office. Among those who attended were (left to right): Allan Powers, Area Director from the campus; Verbicst; Pete Keman, general chairman of Detroit metropolitan area; Carl Doozen, Saginaw chairman; and Chase Black, Battle Creek chairman. 
William J. Totihy and has seven children in his family. At the Na%-y game near the Alumni Booth which was unmanned due to the rain, I saw TOM MOXAHAX looking for TOM CANNON, CARL CRONIN, SPIKE SULLIVAN, AUSTIN BOYLE, GIL SE-AMAN, FRANK HOLLAND, EDDIE RYAN and KELLY POWERS who was staying overnight with CLARENCE FUTTER. Kelly men­tioned that ED SHEERAN Wrote saying he would be here next June. BOB PENDERGAST called to tell me that PHIL GRAHAM was in a Bloom­ington, Illinois, hospital as the result of an auto­mobile accident in early October. The sad news to report is the death of JAMES C. RICH. Jim, BOB PENDERGAST and I were in tlie Black Horse Troop in Chicago and spent many pleasant after­noons and evenings riding. Jim sulTcred from a heart and pleurisy condition and has been in the hospital most of the time from early June until his death November 20th in Chicago. I was able to visit him several times and he seemed to show improvement until his last attack. He u-as living in Cr\'stal Lake, Illinois, and was associated with VERN KNOX in the practice of law, as well as City Judge. Jim is sur\ived by his widow, Irmgard and three children. 
BERNIE LENOUE hopes to be on hand with the Washington contingent: 
Dear Jim: 
"It will be a great privilege for me to do what I can to assist in promoting the 25-year reunion of the Class of I93I, next June. I will be looking forward to receiving the names of the members of this class in our area, and I shall immediately con­tact them in person or by letter. I have no news of any particular importance about our class mem­bers. I have heard a rumor that ROY BAILLIE is going to return to California very soon. Outside of that, the only news is the four inches of snow that Ave received here yesterday at an all-time unusual time for Seattle. Thank you for writing. I will let you know how things develop in regard to the reunion. Best wishes.'* 
B. J. LENOUE 
I had a phone call from DAN CLARK who is now with Swift & Co., in their Restaurant Research Laboratory. In addition Dan is manager of the dining rooms of the Four Flags Hotel at Niles. I had lunch with Vet^ Knox a few weeks ago and also with PAUL DUNCAN. DAN EQAN is tak­ing it upon himself to get some of the engineers back and has written JIM HIGGISTON, JACK DINNEEN. .MIKE HOULAHAN and VAL MAR­TIN. I talked with JOE HARNEY before Christ­mas and am trying to get him back in June. Joe attended Illinois Institute of Technology- and the University of Chicago after leaving Notre Dame. He is at present teaching at Wright Junior College in Chicago as well as engaged in a Veterans Coun­selling program. ^Vhilc JOE HUGHES claims he will be very busy on professional matters, I am sure a phone call or two around town will help get the Columbus group up next June. 
Dear Jim: 
"Your note was exhilarating, refreshing and I re­ceived it with great exuberance—with the possible exception that my heart dropped a foot when I came to the sentence designating mc as the one for this area. Honestly, Jim, I'm up to my ears In professional matters—matters which seem to be so demanding that I can't give them up to make way for this reunion promotion. 

ast^gaaagi^BBaaJBgi^ig^sr^aeaiisga-g^^-ipggspM^^ •jtgg^ygg'a-c.T:: 
m 

"There arc currently some movements In the pro­fession which call for the efTorts of a number of us; and I am already in the position of having turned down some additional obligations in this very area so that I would really be guilty of having rocks in my head were I to accept the responsibility' of promoting the reunion in this region. Even though I appreciate your thought and thank you for it, nevertheless I'll have to decline. 
"You mentioned that LARRY HALTER and PAUL-. ERTEL might be helpers here; I might make the^y suggestion that either one of them or else LEO KLETZLY might be able to help, and by this I mean that they could assume the responsibility of direction In this matter. .Any one of them could do this, I think, and they have the secretarial help to do the paper work. Again, thank you and let me assure you that I'll make arrangements to be on hand for the reunion." 
JOE HUGHES, M.D. 

JOE DEEB will be busy in western Michigan and I am sure will bring 10 or so with him. I hope that some of the fellows in Detroit will SctA\ busy and that WALT DE BAENE will handle any^^ classmates in his area. 
Dear Jim: "Tbank you for your letter dated November 10, 1953, re: 25-ye3r Reunion. I am more than glad to ser\"e as local area chairman under your great and inspiring leadership. Knowing the persons in­volved in this area, you will agree, I am sure, that It Would not be very much of a job to get a 100 percent turnout. In a telephone talk with JOE BOYLAND, f mentioned your letter and he asked me to give you his very best regards. Looking^\ forward to "seeing you in the not too distant fu-*^ true, I am" 
JOE F. DEEB 

In addition I have heard from JACK SAUN­DERS, ART McMANMON, JERRY CROWLEY, FRANK NOLL and many others locally who are planning to return In June. In the "Lost and Like lo Find" department has anyone seen or heard of SID CRAINE, DICK LACEY, WALT BEES­LEY, JACK BOLAND, JIM BOURDEAU, BILL BROU'N, GERRY BUSTIN. CHARLIE CARR, VINC EICHENL.AUB, BILL FLv\HAVEN, HU-#) BERT E, "DOC" HOGAN, JOE HOLLERAN, JOE MAXWELL, DAVE NASH, STEVE ROTH, RAY SMITH and many others. I managed to get the address of JULIAN ACERS who is now in New Orleans and will try to get news from him. I have had a couple of letters from Father JIM DONNELLY, which I will save for the next ALUMNUS. 
I hope that many of you will have. gone over the Class Roster sent out by the Alumni Office late last year and will make it a point to contact^ classmates in your area or particular campus ac-Vj quaintances, roommates, etc., who have moved to other parts of the country. I would like to re­ceive the names of all those planning on attending our TWENTY-FIVE-YEAR REUNIO.V so that the>­may be listed In the next issue of the ALUMNUS. In the meantime your committee has been working en plans for next June and will advise you shortly by letter. In the meantime do your part by \vritlng your classmates. 
BLAKE GORDON has moved from Northern California to San Diego to take over the manager^ 
•> 
-.^!J..'J-,II""'S •ps^nvma 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
SKSSCSJSTRSSTSCSPSrT 
ship of one of the J. C. Penney stores. The kGordons now reside at 66/2 Avenida Mirola, La f'jolla, Calif. 
1932 ^^'"^ ^' ^^^^^^ 
3336 Kenmore Road 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 
We were extremely sorr>* to read of the death of PHIL DUNLEAVY during the early fall folloxv­mg a heart attack in Albuquerque, Sew Mesico, He had moved to that city from Chicago shortly after scr\-icc in the Xa\T during World War IL 
« 
BART O'HARA wrote me about Phil's death, and enclosed clipping from the Albuquerque newspapers which showed that he had attained prominence in the city's civic and religious life. The class ex­tends its deepest sympathy to his widow and children. 
I learned from the Alumni office that CHARLES 
F. SCHAHED died on May H, 1955, but no other 
details arc available. HERB GIORGIO, our class president, and two 
of the district vice-presidents—BADEN POWELL 
^an d DICK SULLIVAN—wrote me recently and eacli 
^'o f them has the same thought that our 25th Re­
union is only a year away. Herb^ letter, in part, states: 
**It was nice to hear from y«i at Christmas time and it will be no time at all before I will be seeing you again at our 25-year Reunion in June. 1957. It hardly seems possible that wc arc out of 
N.D. almost 25 years but it is a fact. 
"I was 5orr>- to hear of Phil Dunleav>' dying and I will remember him in my prayers. My mother died suddenly the day after Christmas and my family is just beginning to realize that it 
^^actually happened. "I heard from FRANK MARLEY and WALT KIOLBASA during the holidays and I Itnotr ihey arc looking for^vard to the 25-year Reunion. JACK RUDD (Statler Hotel, New York City) is already planning to stop off at Buffalo on his way to the Reunion to pick up JOHN PERONE. Several of GENE CONNELLY'S children attend the same scliool that a daughter of my brother attends. I hope Gene will be able to make the Reunion with me. *'To make our 25-year Reunion even better than the 20-year Reunion, I would suggest that every­^on e who attended the latter communicate with one 
or more of our classmates who did not attend and 
arrange to bring him along. Tlie time to start 
planning for the Reunion is now." 
BADEN POWELL has volunteered to start a chain letter to stir up enthusiasm for the Reunion, and further writes: 
"The main reason I have little news is that I tore a cartilage in my knee going UP stairs at the Elks. It was enough to put mc in a cast from my hip to my ankle for six weeks, then two weeks on crutches and two more weeks learning to walk again. I went back to work on December 1st— I am with the Santa Ana Printing Company and cover practically all of Orange County. 
"The only guy I talked to lately is JACK WER­NER. He and Helen and the three children, Jackie", Margaret and Fritz, arc all fine. He is with the C. F. Braun Company (chemicals and stuff like that) in outside sales and loves it. 
*'Neithcr of us can locate his old roomie DR. ROY CATIZONE of Sz^inaw. Roy 'retired* from practice and come out here for a visit with his sister. He came down to see mc at that time and was then planning a trip to either Hawaii or Europe. Roy was never a writer so I later found out that he did make the trip to the Islands and liked tra\'cl so well he ivent to Europe. Alaybc he wound up in Italy and married snme lovely beauty over there.' I stilt do not know where he is. (Ed. Note: As of Jan. 4, 1956, Roy's address is 6642 Whitsctt, North HolI>-\vootl, California.) 
"So while resting in my cast I thought of going through the old issues of the ALUMNUS to find out what the gu\'s of *32 were doing in their localities. Let's try a chain letter deal—send me, and 10 or 20 other fellows, the names of 10 from our class and I will write to them and suggest they write to at least five each. It will be nice writing to those fellows anyway and I hope they will re­spond. It is a shame to have lost contact over the years because most of us were pretty close during our years at SD. 
"I had a Christmas card from BISHOP LORxVS 
T. LANE of Dubuque. He's the busiest person being president of Loras College as well as Bishop of Dubuque, etc." 
DICK SULLIVAN stated that he keeps close contact with many from the class in his area and that they are all looking fortvard to 1957. 
Short notes, FR^VNK MARLEY's Christmas card shows his fine family of three boys and two girls, among others I saw at the Cleveland Club Christ-

Father Frank Gartland, G.S.C., editor of Catholic Boy magazine, chats with Dr. £. T. Leonard, '40, and L. G. Bachrodt, a non-alumnus friend of Notre Dame and also president of the Rockford (UK) Serra Glub, following Father Gartland's luncheon address to the club. 
THOMAS G. CURRIGAN, '41 
Number two man in Denver's municipal government is Thomas G. Curriganj '41, city and county auditor. Tom was elected to the important city post last year after serving a year as clerk and recorder for the city and county of Denver. 
After four-and-a-half years with the Air ForcCj chiefly as a contract termina­tion officer, Tom spent three years with Remington-Rand as business represen­tative, Avith the task of establishing efficient office procedures for various customers of the company. 
His association with city government began in 1949 as recreation counselor. In 1951 he was state executive director of the Crusade for Freedom. He served as administrative assistant to Denver's mayor for the three years prior to his appointment as clerk and recorder. In the latter position, he held membership on the Election Commission and also served as public trustee of Denver county. 
Tom has also been president of the Denver Notre Dame Club. 
He resides at 2915 Ivy Street in Den­ver with his wife, the former Trudy Curtis, and their two children. Colleen and Tommy. 
mas dance were HUGH BALL, MIKE CRAW­FORD, JACK COLUNS, BILL VAN ROOV and SARGE R.\WLEIGH. Hugh Ball and FLO Mc-CARTHY have sons who arc sophomores on the Campus, and BILL CONATON's John is a fresh­man, OLLIE POWERS' second grandchild ivas born in October. TED HALPIN expects to be liv­ing in Kansas City by the time you read this. 

IKE TERRY writes Uiat he and ANDY McGUAN Kill round up the IVisconsin crowd for the Reunion. Lcttcn; to TOM MAGEE and CLIFF PRODEHL were returned for lack of proper address—I would like to hax'c them. (Ed. Note: ClifT's address in Alumni Office is: Skyline Drixt, R.D. 2, Malvern, Pa., while Tom is listed at 3016 X.E. 54th Are., Portland 13, Ore.), 
C. W. DYNIEWICZ, formerly dbtrict sales man­ager of the Deep Rock Oil Company, has recently been appointed manager of the nc*v service station sales department wiih headquarters in the Kerr-McGce Building, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 
CHARLES M. H/\XXA, special representative of 
the National Association of Foremen, recently spoke 
to members of the .American Airlines and Tulsa and 
Douglas Management Clubs in Twlsa. Okla. 
From ROBERT "PETE" STREB, 183 Crescent 
Road, Massillon, Ohio: 

"BILL WALTZ, of Ohio Merchants Bank, Mas­sillon, didn't feel too badly his Massillon High football team lost to McKinley HJ, Canton, for the Stale Championship—first time in seven years. LOU SINGER I sec hustling Dictaphones in this area. My brother, ED STREB, roommate of GEORGE MOLONEY, '34, big Chrysler dealer in the county, recently was made director of pur­chases with Superior Switchboard Devices in Can­ton. HERB COLE.MAN, one of Leahy's centers, is Mercury dealer in Canton and getting bigger and bigger with prosperity that he won't even get on a scales nov*-. When Don Scliaefer spoke at the Alumni Communion Breakfast in Canton in De­cember, wc had a mar\-cIous turnout and our local Central Catholic High School's Brother An­thony introduced Don for he was Don's counselor in high scliool in Pittsburgh. Don's ta!k was' ex­cellent but following the introduction he said he'd write no more letters to Brother Anthony for the ribbing he got. Tlic program was exceptional. N.D. surely can be proud of Don, Saw BILL BELDEN —coaching from the sidelines—encouraging his son in our grade school basketball games. Any alumni having claims on shipments against our company. Diebold, should get good service through ED MACHUGA, '54, or BUD CALDWELL." 
193 3 Joseph A. McCabe 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 

Don't forget that BIG date 1958 is fast approach­ing, when we'll gather for our 25th reunion. Con­sideration of this reunion is in itself a" most sober­ing procedure. Nobody gets more than one of those . . . and a lot of men who began with us way back wlien won't even get one. Let's remem­ber them in our prayers, first of all—commending them to our special protectress, the Blessed XHrgin Afary. And while we're talking to her let's put in a word for living Notre Dame men—their spir­itual, especially, and also their matenal needs. Especially the sick and those bearing any kind of heavy cross—spiritual, mental, physical .. . or financial! 
GEORGE ROHRS, our genial president, and other class members including the 'umblc amanuen­sis—I'm working that one up as a class gift—have been exchanging \-iews on the urgcncj' of planning a really worthwhile reunion featuring a represen­tative class gift. The first step taken by George and it is a very good one was to suggest JACK HOYT as chairman of the committee. Jack has alwa\-s been a successful organizer and as we got the word back here in the Midwest did a fine job as president of the New York N.D. alumni club. I am sure .all class members will be enthusiastic about this . . . and I lift this hoarse croak again to urge you all to write letters—give us news about vourself and other ND men. Let's get in back of Hoyt for the big 23th JUNE REUNE! Now for those *vho have written . . . 
This might well be called their reverences speak . . . as two far-distant missionaries contribute some highly-prized observations from the other side of the world. But before yielding the floor, I'd like to ask each one of you to remember these wonder­ful men in your prayers. I'll give you their ad­dresses also, and if you have a spare bill or two burning a fire in your pocket, send it along to them—they can use it far more than we ourselves can—and it will do far more good. 
I remember when I was young I used to par­ticularly admire army scouts—those especially brave men w-ho went out alone as flankers or pathbreak­ers to test the safety of the route of the main forces. Not only did they face death—all soldiers do that—they also faced the peculiar terror of 
.loneliness. These priests are the flankers of God —His adv-ancc men, wearing Our Ladj-'s colors for gallantry. I say again, remember them—with money if possible but above all your prayers. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, Marck-April, 1956 
REV. HILARY H. HEIM, O^.B., '53 

Rev. Hilar)' Homer Heim, O.S.B.. '53, took office this past June as dean of men at St. Benedict's College, At­chison, Kan. Now 32, he is one of the youngest deans in the school's his-, tor)\ 
Ordained to the priesthood in 1949, he served for five years as mathematics instructor and student counselor at the college prior to his appointment, at which time he was St. Benedict's ath­letic moderator. 
A native of Leavenworth, Kan., Father Heim entered the Benedictine Order in 1942 and received his bache­lor degree in philosophy from St. Bene­dict's in 1945. He then completed four years of dieological studies at the college. Four summers in mathematics at Notre Dame earned him a master's degree in 1953. He followed that up with another year of graduate studies at the University of Michigan. 
Father Heim's wide range oi in­terests—he has been active in journa­lism and music and is an enthusiastic sportsman—serves him well as dean of men. He is responsible for student housing arrangements, boarding facili­ties, extra-curricular affairs and, in general, all the non-academic activities of the college's 550 students. 
The first of these good men I heard from was FATHER AVILLY of Catholic Church, P.O. Bsghmara, Garo Hills, Assam, India. Father Willy writes: 
"Quite a long time since you have had a letter in your mailbag from your missionary in India. As happens to so many letters, I'm afraid some I yrnic 
have been lost. I hope these few lines reach ynu safely. 'Progress in this neivly established mission i^^\ going nicely. In the last months we were able™*' to finish the residence of the Fathers, and are now erecting a small building as a school for our cate­chists. Wc have found the number of our con­verts have doubled in the last few months. For this and other blessings we have cver>' reason to thank Gfxl. But a great difliculty remains: the instruction of new Christians is greatly furthered by the presence of other good Christians to scr\e as examples and combat the natural tcndenc>­towards mediocrity which is present always like the pull of gravity. Tliat is why the Church ^A needs so much in addition to priests and other reli­gious the contributions and the presence of an ardent and informed laity. 
"Yes, you put it well, Mr. McCabc, in a recent issue of the N.D. ALUMNUS when you said 'wc have to heighten the spiritual level . . . and espe­cially the devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mar>-.' 
"To give a chance to our benefactors to 'co­operate in the saK'ation of souls,' wc take time out from our labors to drop them a few lines. 
"To all sincerely I may say that wc at present arc doing our utmost to bring the Word of God^ \ to these Garo people. Let us speed up the march ^ of Christianity in* this land before Communism gets hold of the people . . . which God forbid. 
*'I hope ycu and your readers can put a moment aside to say a few prayers for this beautiful and promising mission. I pray for you and all your intentions." 
Thank you. Father Willy—I am surf a prayer from you is heard quickly—God must be listening closely to the land where His name is spoken so seldom—but devotedly when it is uttered. 
And now for a word from the other side of the hill in India—Pakistan. FATHER F. J. BURTON,^v G.S.C.. a classmate of ours who has probably gone" ' further than anyone in the class, if you'll excuse a bad pun, writes from the Archbishop's House, Ramna, Dacca, Pakistan, as follows: 
"Dear Joe, **Likc two, three hundred other members of the Class of '33 I have long been one of your fans— passive vTiricty. Tliosc of us in this group read every word you wring out of the other three, two hundred, applaud, and then sit back to wait for the next issue of the ALUMNUS to see how Lonesome Joe is doing in his struggles. ^ ^ "Fact is, man's the time a \-ague resolution tookW' shape to drop you a line, and then a gremlin would whisper: Nobody's going to be much inter­ested in what you have to say; you're too far away. This morning a good gremlin, with a Christ­mas spirit, suggested that evcr>' class member COULD easily work up a similar rationalization, and poor old Joe would not have to fill his column with fiction. So here goes. 
"I spent the time from *33 to the fall of *40— with ordination in '37—in the Wcinity of Catholic University In Washington gathering information in the Sacred Sciences. In '40 I came to Bengal with the last group of missionaries who made it beforeA the war in the Pacific broke. The follo\^-ing year's group was caught in Manila and interned in the Philippines for the duration. 
"In Bengal I taught in the preparatory seminary-of the diocese for a year, and then spent another year in chaplain service for the British Forces in the area—mostly for patients in the military- hos­pitals. At the time the British here were short of their own Military Catholic chaplains. Then fol­lowed three interesting years as a missionary among the Garo people on the Bengal-Assam border. 
"Shortly after BISHOP (now Archbishop) GRA­NER was installed in the diocese I became chan-^ ccllor, and still am. It may be of interest to the clerical readers of your column to know that the Chancery in a missionary diocese is just like one elsewhere, with prett>* much the same type of duties and problems. As Dacca becomes more cos­mopolitan—there arc many representatives of foreign governments here now—and as the number of Catholics in the diocese grows (at present there arc about 45,000), even the x-olume of the Chancery-work approaches that of smaller dioceses in other parts of the i*'orld. ^ _ 
"In general, conditions in Pakistan are peacefu'^ and progressive, and under Arclibishop Graner the Church is strix-ing mightily to keep in step with the general progress in this area. 
"Our faithful Class Secretary may use as much or as little of the above as his well-knou-n editorial instinct advises. Could be I'll be present for the Reunion in '58. In the meantime many thanks for the unselfish efforts you make,'and have long made, for the benefit of the whole class and Notre Dame. 
"Yours sincerely in Our Lord,** 
F. J. BURTON, CJS.C, 
G. Albert Lawton, '35. is serving as the first executive vice-president of the recently formed Security-Connecticut Life Insurance Company of New Hav­en, the first ordinary Hfe insurance 
•company to be started in Connecticut 

^ m 65 years. The firm is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Security In­surance Company in New Haven. 
AI attended Notre Dame from 1931 to 1935, then entered the life insur­ance field. He has gained wide ex­perience in many phases of the business during the past 17 years, with time out 

^o r militar>' service during World War II. 
Before joining the Security-Connecti­cut Companies, he was director of agencies of the Aetna Life Insurance Company in Hartford. 
He holds the designation of Char­tered Life Undenvriter; he is a gradu­

at e of the Life Insurance Agency Man­agement Association School, and as a general agent he won the President's Trophy for excellence in over-all agency management. 
In alumni affairs, he has served as secretary for the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley. 
And now lierc^s a word from the laity. LES RADDATZ has come up with a fine idea—sending in pictures of family groups for reproduction in the ALUMNUS. Perhaps this gimmick will be more helpful than my many pleas for letters at getting a response from the unseen audience. Anyway, I think it*s a great idea, Les, and if editor JOHN CACKLEY can find the space in this edition, we'll lead off with your handsome family. Just proves that families get better looking all along . . . the influence of the mother! 
193 4 ^- Edward Carey ^ . 18843 Inglewood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
Congratulations arc in order to HUGH DEVORE 
on his recent appointment as head coach of the 
Philadelphia Eagles. You may have seen a vcr>' 
nice picture of Hughic, his wife, and their seven 
youngsters in your newspaper. For that fine gang 
too, Hughie, nice going. 
Our class could bask in a little reflected glory 
recently with two of our members, PARIS COWART 
and DAN YOUNG being selected as candidates for 
the Alumni Board. Good work, boys. 
Wc weren't outnumbered in a South Bend steak 
joint (well, they serve steaks, too) after the Na\*y 
game. BOB aVHILL, VINCE REISCHMAN, 
JACK MARTIN and your secretary converged with 
much scintillating raillcr>', "Sooner" Jack's con­
tention, that Oklahoma had a good team TOO, re­
ceived unenlliusiostic agreement, but after that 
Orange Bowl he might do better on a recount. 
Vincc was feeling happy about his son's entrance 
into the seminary, as wcU he might. Bob was 
making with some "my boy" talk. too. The new 
manager of the Cahill menage is Robert Jr, IVail 
until he becomes Ticket Manager, fellas, we may get 
out from behind the goal posts yetl (Ed. note: Be 
sure to read Mr. Cahill's scintillating prose re the 
ticket situation in this issue of ALUMNUS), 
A uord from CLIFF SAUS\'ILLE of Ncuark, via Cahill. ClifT is Superintendent of the Pipe Division of Ballantinc's. manufacturers of certain amber fluids commonly used for quenching thirsts, and he invites one and all to stop in for a tour of **in­spcciion." How you R\ed to handle an off-year reunion there,'Cliff? 
JIM MUNN, one of our better correspondents, 
lost his father on Christmas. Our sympathy and 
prayers, J. 
On the local scene, ^fonsig^or ED SEWARD, Chancellor of the Cleveland Diocese, called to­gether the heads of our Catholic high schools and banned athletic scholarships. Received much favor­able comment in the local press. 
NORB RiVSCHER had trouble giving the Fight­ing Irish his UndiWdcd loyalty last fall. His son quarterbackcd the freshman team at Cathedral Latin here. 
JOHN O'CONNOR HI is district sales manager for. Copper^vcld Steel and has become a regular at ND Club affairs. 
ROBERT E. BOYL^VN has been appointed mem­
bership representative in the Lorain-Elyria area for 
the Lorain County branch of the Cle\-eland Auto­
mobile Club. 
DR. HARRY T. GANNON, who has been teach­
ing in the Naval School at Newport, R. I., has 
recently been transferred to the Pentagon, Washing­
ton, D. C , and promoted to captain in the U. S. 
Navy. 
To keep your address book up to date, look 
where they've moved to now: 
VIC /VSTONE from South Bend to 481 Cornell Ave., Dcs Plaines, III.; STE\ ^ BAN^VS from Eben­ezer, N. Y„ to c/o Doyle 900 Willow. Reno, Nev.; JOHN BURNS from Jersey City to 16155 Princeton, Detroit, Mich.; BOB BUTLER from Dayton, Ohio to 2405 Newman Road. Racine, Wis.; CH/\RLEY C/\SHM.\N no longer collects his mail at Fenlmorc Iron Mines in Toronto. Check in. Charley, when you get back from the bush; JIM COLE from Hillview, III., to Westleigh Farms, Peru, Indiana; LEO CRON^VN from North Andover to 38 Beach St., Marblchcad, Mass.; BOB DAERR from Orinda, Calif., to 9932 So, Crawford, Oak-lawn, IIL; BOB HALPIN from .VPO .New York City to Pilot, U. S. -Air Force, Harmon AFU, Stephenville, Newfoundland; ART HOENE from New York City to U. S. Coast Guard Marine, In­spection Office, Station B. Box 2129, San Francisco 
26. Cal.; Fr. CHARLES HOR.\N from Washington, 
D. C. to 321 E. 43rd St., New York 17, N. Y.; Lt. Col. BOB McDONOUGH from San Francisco to 3213 Fourth St., North Arlington 1, Va.; Fr. ED MURR/\Y from Cork, Ireland to Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.; JOE NELSON from PhoenLx. Ariz., to 1043 W. Wood St., Decatur, 111.; Fr. ED O'MALLEY from Trey to 454 Western Ave., Al­bany, N. Y.; Dr. HUGH O'NEIL from Denver to 824 W. Glendale, Tomah, Wis.; GEORGE REESE from Chicago to 901 Mass. Ave., N. W., Washing­ton, D. C ; BOB RENSBERGER from Racifc, Brazil to 13 Greenwood Lane, Valhalla, N. Y.; HAROLD SPORL from Waveland. Miss., to 608 Whitney Bldg., New Oricans 6, La,; Fr. ANTHONY VAN BEERSU.M to St. John Catholic Church, 2742 Lamar Ave., Memphis, Tenn.; BERNIE WITUCKI from Tulsa, Okla., to Athletic Office, Notre Dame, Ind, 
Your correspondent attended a very pleasant and instructive meeting of Class Secretaries at Notre Dame, in December. ^Ve're not threatening, but you should hear what some of these guy's do to pry a little news out of their classmates. 
Seriously, many announcements which properly should be included in these paragraphs are omitted for want of few lines or a n-wspaper clipping ad* dressed to the Class Secretary. Items such as marriages, birtlis (grandchildren, that is), deaths, promotions, appointments, elections, honors, paroles, and the likr. are of- interest to all. 
So, pens in hand boys, this is a New Year, and for you we hope, a happy one. 
193 5 Franklyn C. Hochrcitcr f^^ 1327 Pentwood Road Baltimore, Maryland 
JAMES C. MacDEVITT, JR., has formed a law partnership ^rith Peter Labarbera under the name of MacDcvitt and Labarbera with offices located in the Empire State Building, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York I, New York. 
Ed. Note: to members of 1935 Class. You may have been right—take another look. He is NOT a member of the hierarchy but he did play the part of Bishop Gregory in "The Velvet Glove." The play was one of the hits on the Baltimore stage this season. Any resemblance to a guy named Hoch­reiter is strictly something or other.—JC 
JOHN N. >LADDOCK is working on the atomic energy project at Los /Vlamos, New Mexico. 

F. T. McGUIRE, manager of the ^faterials En­gineering Department, Deere and Company, ^foltoe, 111,, recently had an opportunitv to visit with TELMO DE LANDERO while in Mexico City. 
IO3 A A. H. Moorman I 7^ v 2628 Buhl Buildmg, Detroit 26, Midugan 
Flash! JERRY VOGEL has accepted the chairmanship of the local reunion commit­tee for. the Class of 1^6. He will appre< date any suggestions that you have for making ^-our dass reimion enjoyable and successful. His address is 537 River Ave­nue, South Bend, Indiana. 

From JIM SHERRY: "Thc 20th Year Reunion for the Class of 1936 will be held at Notre Dame on the 8th, 9th, and 
NORTH FLORIDA—A Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast was held in December with approximately 40 Alumni, their families and ^csts attending at the Immaculate Conception Church. 
lOlh of June, 1956. and we have all received a letter and class roster in this regard from JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., in the Alumni Office. I saw BERT BAUER over the Na\y game weekend down at school and we wore talking over the poor at­tendance of our class at the loth-year reunion and thought we ought to get together with a fevv other interested classmates and tr>' to do something about getting a much better turnout than wc had in 1951. when, if my memory scr\'cs me correctly, only 38 men out of a class of better than 450 attended. 
"Since about the best and only way to eat an ele­phant is to first cut it up into small pieces, in looking over the roster it seemed Hkc the best way to handle it would be to set up Area Chairmen and ask each one of these men to refer to the roster and write cvcr^'one in his area in an cfTort to en­courage evcr>'one to attend, keep records of who will be there, etc 
'The men I thought would be w-illing to take on this job are listed below and I am forwarding this information to ever^'onc shown. 
"New England States: TOM F. DUNN, 26 Port­land Street, Springfield 7, Massachusetts. "New York and New Jersey: PHIL CLARKE, 245 Avenue *'C," Xew York 9. New York. 
*'Pcnns>'Ivama, Marj'land, Delaware, and Washing­ton, D. C: BOB W. aWANAUGH, 5215 Norway Drive, Che\->' Chase 15, ^[a^>'Iand. 

"Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Kentucky, Tennessee and Louisiana: DON McCOR-MACK, 1855 Harbcrt .\vcnuc. Memphis 4, Ten­nessee. 
"Michigan, Ohio and Indiana: JIM SHERRY, JR., Buick Motor Division, Flint. Michigan. "Illinois and Wisconsin: BERT BAUER, JR., 718 Elmwood, Wilmctie, Illinois. 
"Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebras­ka, Montana, Wyoming and Idaho: TOM REAR­DON, 1900 South First Avenue, Sioux Falls, South Dakota. 
*'Iowa, Missouri, Arkansas. Kansas, and Colorado: JACK WH!T.\KER, 3209 West 68th Street, Kansas City. Missouri. 
"Texas, Oklahoma. New Mexico. Arizona, Utah and Nc\-ada: JOE O^NEILL, JR., 209 North Big Spring Street, Midland, Texas. 
California. Oregon and Wajhin-jton: PAUL E. RUBLY, 754 Fairview Avenue, Arcadia, California." 
ANDY PILXEY had a successful season as bead football coacli at Tulane University and was named "Coach of the Week" by the Associated Press after Tulane defeated Auburn, 
JOE O'NEILL was elected president of the N. D. Alumni Association at the Board of Directors' winter meeting, 
Mucli info has been received from questionnaires recently sent to members of the 1936 class regard­ing our BIG 20th Reunion coming up on June 8-9-10. On tlie basis of the questionnaires it ap­pears that a great many of the men are anxious to sec FATHERS JOHN aW'ANAUGH. TO.M BRENNAN and NED JOYCE. Quite a few fel­lows have suggested that FATHER ED HAMMER, of the '36 class, be the celebrant of the Mass for deceased members. 
Some of the net\-s hrghjights coming in from the class are as follows: 
TOM ME.AGHER, Rochester, is a Judge and has distinguished himself with his juvenile delinquency work. He is planning to come with JOE FOX and LEO HOFSCHNEIDER. 
BILL SHAKESPEARE has just been transferred to Cincinnati Rubber Co. plant at Cincinnati after almost 20 years of export travel. He is enthusiastic­
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, J956 
ally looking forward to the reunion as he hasn't 
been on campus for 15 years. 
JOHN NORTON who has been in the general 
insurance business since 1940 writes that he hasn't 
been back since 1939 when his kid brother gradu­
ated and is looking forward to the reunion. 
A great many inquiries have been received as to 
whether certain fellows ^vill be back, among them 
BILL JOYCE, PRIAL CURRAN. JOHN OLDEN­
BACH, TOBY KRA.MER, DICK BAKER, CARL 
LETSON, SABBY BONET, JACK McGINLEY, 
CHARLIE BOYLE. I haven't heard from any of 
these fellows as yet. Another letter will go out 
shortly to all those who have not been heard from. 
Planning to attend reunion arc: JAMES J. 
DUrrON . JR., WILLIAM J. DARCY, DALE E. 
LOVELL, RENO O. Z.\RANTONELLO, GENE 
MALLOY. REV. EDMOND F. HAMMER, PAT 
A. TOFUR, THO.\L\S J. MEAGHER, JOSEPH FOX, JOHN W. NORTON, ARTHUR J. MUL­HOLLAND, JR., WOODROW STILLWAGON, JOSEPH C. BECKMANN, JR., DON ELSER, G. 
B. MEAGHER, WILLIAM H. BELDEN, THO.NLVS 

H. GR^IDY, JR., LOUIE A. LANGE, CHARLES 
S. FITZSIMONS, LARRY PALKOMC. WALLY FROMHART, EDWARD H. "TED" DALEY, PAUL W. CUMMINGS, THOMAS J. TREACY, 
N. J. "NICK" CONNOR, ROBERT F. IR\aN, JOHN F. R. SHAFFER, 1\7LLIAM E. FLAN­NERY, FRANCIS J. MURPHY, CHARLES SCHAFFLER, ED R. DUNN, FRANCIS J. MAR­TIN, FRED S. .McNEILL, THOMAS N. REAR­DON, FRED C. WEBER, GENE TOBIN, BILL SHAKESPEARE, mLLIAAf K. BAYER, JOHX J. MORAN, GEORGE A. BINDER, WILLIAM A. WALSH. JR., GEORGE a\NNON, JR., MICHAEL 
J. O'CONNOR, JOSEPH W. SCH.MIDT, JAMES 
J. SPERRY, JR., L.\WRENCE F. SIBR, KEN­NETH F. LAWS, ^\NDY PILNEY, LEO J. HOF­SCHNEIDER. FRANCIS L. LAYDEN, JOSEPH I. O'NEIL, JR., D.\N T. O'BRIEN, ARTHUR D. CRONIN, JR.. A. H. "LEE" MOOR.MAN, JR., BERT BOWER, JLM FOOHEY, AL ROHOL. 
Doubtful—but hopeful of attending are: JOHN 

R. DES NO\'ER, JACK BRAY, WILLIAM H. FIEWEGER, THOMAS E. ADAMSON, JR., REV. ROLAND G. SIMONITSCH, THOMAS J. MUR­PHY, DR. GEORGE E. MURPHY, ARTHUR HUBER. 
193 7 ^^"' Foley, Vice-President 
McCann-Erickson, Inc. 
3546 Penobscot BIdg. 
Detroit 26, Michigan 
Just a minute ago the new swivel chair on which 

I am perched Iiigh up in the Penobscot Building 
swung me gently around and faced me to the south. There, across the icy ribbon of the Detroit River was good, gray Canada. 
Tliat's right, south—and you can pick up a nice buck on that bet in almost any saloon. Windsor, Ontario, is south of Detroit, Micliigan. 
That little capsule lesson In geography Is by way of a hook slide to get us Into the fact that to the best of our knowledge wc have just two members of the Class of '37 presently slugging It out In Canada. And thc>- are both doing ver>* nicely, thank you. 
First is GREG BYRNES, who comes by it natural­ly since he is a native of Hamilton, Ontario. Greg was, when last reported, manager of advertising and merchandising for Dunlop Canada, Ltd., manu­facturers of tires and other rubber products In Toronto. 
To show you how these things work out, the only other classmate In Canada Is the one who sent in the report on Greg. He is MARK LO^^f\ J ERGAN, regional super\-isor for Metropolitan Life ­Insurance Company In Montreal. 

All right, so w*e have two members in Canada. What else is ne^v? 
Here are some notes on lawyers: Just a year ago, CHARLES F. MEYERS teamed up tvlth a non-classmate named Ferre C. Watklns to form a law partnership In Chicago. In a burst of creative zeal that lea\'es me speechless, they named the firm Watkins and Afeyers. 
Also, one year ago. I received a very neatl y I printed card on expensive 1009& rag-content stociP/ | tvhich read starkly: "Wc arc pleased to announce that JOHN C. MARBACH has today become a member of this firm. Blcaklev, Piatt, Gilchrist & Walker.'^ 
This pleased mc ver>' much because the firm name has such a rich, double-entry- ring to it. After pondering the matter on and ofT for the past year I have discarded my first theory about this firm. I do not believe that a firm named Bleakley, Piatt, Gilchrist & Walker can possibly be in the used car business. If they were, the name would probablj^ I be Bleakley, Piatt, Gilchrist &. "ifad Man" WalkciP) I I have decided that Marbach has disappeared into [ a law firm. 
From deep down in Baytown—that's In Texas— wc learned, about six months ago, that J. M. POWERS has become an author. Specifically, Jack did a feature piece for "Industrial and Engineering Chemistry" entitled "p-Xylcne from Petroleum." Now It so happens that my newsstand man has yet to come through with my copy of this journal but 
I have learned that the article traces the grouth of 
paraxylcnc manufacture since commercial fractiona­tion of xylenes from petroleum first started IiUv 1945. (Hall!) §). 
Last summer HERB KENYON was made sales manager o( the Long Island City office of Netv York's Blue Cross and Blue Shield. Herb was then living in Tarr\'town and active in many affairs there. 
At the risk of being one jump behind the Bureau in its shifts. let us hasten to report that our last report on ED BOYLE had him leaving the top FBI spot in Louisville, Kentucky, to become the number one man in the Bureau's office at El Paso, Texas. 
Just to round things out, here arc a couple of ^•arns with an automobile angle: ^ 
BILL FALLON Is knocking them dead in Nc\ " Rochcllc as president of Eastmont Motors, DeSoto­Pl>*mouth dealers. Before Bill moved into his own deal, he ^^-as selling Chr^-sler and PI>-mouth cars for Jerry English & Sons. 
Tliis next item really should have some better tag but it might Interest you to know that ever since June, 1937, JERRY BESANCENEY has glom­med onto a license plate reading "N. D. 37.** UTien he dropped me a note more than a year ago, the plate was gracing a Buick which he described as being *'green and yellow." Now, lest you might }ump to ihc conclusion that Jerr>* is running a one^ man taxi company, let me clear you up immediatel>V^ He is a material analyst for North .American Avia­tion. Inc., Columbus. Ohio. 
By thii time, REV. JOE E.VGLISH, M.M., Is wcW established in ChWe tihcre the Marj-fcnolJ Fathers arc doing important missionary work. His address is: Casilla 166, Talcahuano. Chile. Father Joe writes: 
"Saliidos and Blessings from this side of the Equator. Time seems to fly even faster in Chile. Have your welcome letter of last November Inviting some news from the 'Shoelace country.' 
"Well. Chile Is a real mission field. 100 mlle^. wide and nearly 4,000 long, with a sad shortagi ^ of padres. The C.S.C. Fathers arc doing a grand job in Santiago at St. George's Academy \viih some 1600 grade and high school boys. There arc 40 Mar>'knolIcrs in 17 scattered parishes—mostly en the back roads—caring for some 150,000 souls. It will take prayers, patience and time to get the masses to practice the Faith they profess. 
"About 90% of Chileans are Catholic in name and nine percent attend Sunday Mass. Most of these arc women and children. Some da>'s it's like running into the center of the Notre Dame Ilne-^i you get nowhere. Say a prayer for Chile and for us. On the brighter side, our men who have been here 10 or 12 years see big ad\'ances in the Faith. It lias to come; Our Lady is the Patroness of Chile. 
"Our seaport parish of Talcahuano (5th largest i city) is growing fast. Chile's famous Huachipato I Steel Plant is right in our backyard. It has 5,000 workers and hopes to industrialize the nation. In fact, our Church of the Assumption, now under i construction, will be the first In Chile made with ! Chile's own steel. Father Mel Cowan of Oakland, Calif., is the pastor and I am helping him. ^ 
FATHER JOE ENGLISH, '37, MaryknoU missionary in Chile. 
**Wc liavc countless dead-end kids and most of 

^^Iiem arc anxious to Icarn their catecliism, once 
^^niey'rc house-broken. Of course, our aim, like all missionar>' work, is to find and develop local voca­tions and priests, so that they can be independent and then we can move on lo greener pastures. You might say we are trying to %vork ourselves out of a job. At one of our mission stations on First Communion day, one little fellow presented himself in his Sunday best—in a brand new pair of blue overalls. No one blinked an eye. 
"Last Fall it was a real treat to hear those fa­miliar and friendly voices of JOE BOL^\ND and our classmate HOWIE .MURDOCK broadcasting »hc Irish football games. Herc*s wishing TERRY 

^RENNA N and his boys a great season this year. Also looking forward to our 25th class reunion in '62, God willing. Hope to be back in the States on furlough then. In the meantime if you're taking any cruises to Chile look us up." 
VINCENT W. HARTNETT works as a talent consultant for advertising agencies and sponsors. Vince is the author of "Red Channels"—a book listing some of the entertainment personalities who lent their efTorts or their names for communist front causes. 
DR. THO.M/VS P. CARNEY, vice-president of Research, Development and Control for Eli Lilly 
^i d Company, ha& ucc.i cleciod diaitman of tlie American Chemical Society's Division of Medicinal Chemistr>' for 1956. Tom was featured as a "Spot­light Alumnus" in a recent edition of the ALUM­NUS magazine. 
Incidentally, note the top of this column. Your Class Secretar>' has a new spot: Vice-President, De­troit office, McCann-Erickson, world's hottest ad­vertising agenc\'. 
i 
938 Charles M. Callahan Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame, Intliana 
DR. EDWARD S. McCx\BE recently was In Germany and France as civilian consultant in medi­cine for the Surgeon General of the U. S. Army. After receiving a B.S. degree from Notre Dame, Ed took an M.D. at the University of Pennsyh'ania School of Medicine. He has ser\'cd as an in­structor on the Temple University School of Medi­cine staff since 1949 and has written 24 medical articles in the past eight years for publication, 
^r . and Mrs. McCabe have two children, Edward J. and Julia E. 
A. O, ZOSS, plant manager of General Aniline and Film Corporation, Linden, N. J., wrote an article recently In the Inthistrial and Engineering Chemistry- magazine. Tlie title was "Plant Man­agement." 
THOM.\S F. QUINLAN's 20-month-oId daughter drowned in Lake Waramaug, New Preston, Conn., in early October. 
FRi\NCIS P. COSGROVE recenUy joined the faculty of the College of Pharmac>' of Loyola Uni­versity of the South. He and .Mrs. Cosgrove are the proud parents of two boys and are residing at 553 JefTerson Park Avenue, New Orleans, La. 
a\RLTOX MacDOUGALD has been a patient in St. Joseph's Hospital, Providence, Rhode Island, since last September. His car was caught in the hurricane and as a result of the accident Carlton suffered broken legs and arms. He is still in trac­tion at the hospital. Carlton would appreciate hearing from his classmates. 
1939 ^^'illi^i OToole 176 Hillsitic Avenue Rochester, New York 
Coach MAX BURNELL of St. George High School, Chicago, brought his team into tlie play­off Catholic High School League championship fol­lowing the regularly scheduled football season of 1955. His opponent coach was STEVE JUZWIK of Weber High School, Class of 1942 at Notre Dame. (Ed. Note: St. George lost in playoff.) 
WALTER J. SHORT, vice-president and treasurer of Allegheny Airlines, was elected president of the Airline Finance and Accounting Conference of the Air Transport Association of America at their iWntcr meeting in New Orleans. 
CHARLES F. OSBORN, an attorney with a Seattle law firm, was. a speaker at Montana State University's third annual Txx School ^v•hich was held this ^vinter, Dean of the Montana State Law School is ROBERT E. SULLIVAN, '40, formerly professor of law at Notre Dame. 
JI.M MOTSCHALL urges all alumni who took pictures at the lost class reunion of 1939 to forward them to him at once so that he can prepare the proposed brochure. Undoubtedly you will remember that the class decided to accept Jim^s invitation to print a souvenir booklet of class pictures taken at the reunion. Although the brochure will be sent without tosty Jim wants to know immediately how many of you desire them. Will you kindly inform him at the earliest possible moment whether or not you wish lo obtain a class brochure. His address is Singer-Moischall Corporation, 10090 West Chicago Boulevard, Detroit 4, Michigan. 
1940 ^''*^^^ Burke 146 Paxson Drive South Bend, Indiana 
VINCENT A. DOYLE, formerly assistant chief of the Examining Division in the U. S. Copyright Office, has formed a law partnership with James 
J. Guinan, Jr., at 1028 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C. 
SAM DEVINE, formerly state representative from Franklin County (Ohio) was recently appointed 
Planning additional social get-togethers for 

prosecutor for Franklin County. He was chair­man of the Subversive Activities Committee in the State Legislature. 
GEORGE J. PRESTON has been promoted to the post of Export Parts Manager of the Caterpillar. Tractor Company. He will have responsibility for dealer contacts outside the V.S.A., Canada and 
Alaska. 
1941 
Flash! JOHN MacCAULEY has accepted the chairmanship of the local reunion com­mittee for the Class of I&H. He will ap­preciate any suggestions that you have for making >-our class reunion enja>-able and successful. His address is the University of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

(Editor's 2^ote: A serious heart attack in recent months has forced JACK PATTERSON, who has done a highly competent Job as writer of this column, to submit his resignation as secretary of the 1941 Class. We regret his decision as much as will the class because Jack has been a loyal and faithful correspondent. However, it is evident that this is a wise move in assisting him to a normal recover)' and continued good health. Therefore, as of this issue, the managing editor will accept any and all applications !or the job. Line forms on the right. There must be a Hkely candidate or so within the 1941 ranks who will assume this impor­tant function. Your suggestions will be much ap­preciated. But over and above seeking a new Scc­retar>-, I think that not only the Alumni OiSce but the entire 1941 Class owes a tremendous vote of gratitude to Jack Patterson for a job exception­ally well done.—^John Cackley.) 
DONALD C. TIEDE.MAN'N, Tuckahoe, N. Y., has been promoted to an assistant counsel with the New York Life Insurance Company. 
ROBERT A. MEYER has been a member of the legal department of the Ohio Oil Company since September, 1955. His address is Robert A. Meyer, 2504 Bellaire Drive, Casper, Wyoming. 
 1938 class members living in St. Joe Valiey 
arc these four conmiitteemen: (L. to R.) Jim Bcaudway, Charles Duke, Don Fisher and Nelson Vogel. 
1 OA^  \VilHani £. Scanlan  
'^ ^  400 East 111th Street  
Chicago 28, IlHnois  

TJiat's TOM TEARNEY, the legal cagic, you've been reading about dashing about Chicago In the white Hartigan-providcd auto for Mayor Daley. This is a campaign to bring the City Hall to tlie people, or al least to find out the feeh'ngs of people on vital subjects. 
HOWARD SCHELLEXBERG, who is president of the Notre Dame Club in Wasliingion, D. C , was in the ^lidwrst for the annual convention of the Radio and Television Broadcasting industry and telephoned to say "hello." He and JIM O'LAUGH­LIN are as busy as ever rounding up people and details for the Penn game trip. Thev now claim JOHNNY L.ATTNER, since he has been located at Boiling Field. 
TOM DILLON reports thai DON FIGEL, the insurance whiz, has moved from Chicago to Dan­ville, 111. Don's new address: 1602 N. Vermillion, Danville. JERRY HACK says BILL HICKEY is lining up a special busload of spectators for tlie N.D.-Iowa game. Included in the list going down are JIM CONWAY, DON HOGAN, HACK, HICKEY and their wives, and TOM NASH. Tom, by the way, was runnertiji for the 1955 club cham­pionship at Olympia Fields Countr\' Club. Tliat's golf. And Don Hogan has sliced his handicap from a gigantic 27 to 9 within two years. Tom had better watch his laurels for the future. 
BILL HICKEY missed the Miami game, which he bad hoped to attend, because of a golf affair at Tlie Home^tead. But our class was represented. 
Yours truly was there and had a visit witli DAN HOLWELL, who is now Florida Sules Representa­tive of the International Furniture Co. Dan said LARRY KELLEY and his wife were al the Shel­bome Hotel after the game (that's where the team stayed), and so were hundreds more. No wonder we missed. Representatives of other sports wer*! on hand for the first southern visit of N.D. Herb Score, the Cleveland Indians pitcher, was an interested admirer. And when TERRY BRE.\NAN met Vir­ginia Dennchy, Chicago's Metropolitan District golf champion, his comment was: **How I envy you. If only I could master the sport you excel in!" 
MIKE KELLY was featured in a recent issue of "Advertising Age," following his talk at a meeting of the Akron, Ohio, Appliance Dealers Association. Mike said the T\ ' tndustr>' can look for^vard to good volume TV sales this fall because (1) the products and prices available; (2) the entertainment offered; and (3) tlie natural desire of the public to have the newest gadget in every field. 
ROBERT E.M.METT WRIGHT is currently ser\-­ing on the Foundation Committee in Chicago. A group of key Alumni have been named to encourage all members of the region to participate in the 1956 Foundation program. Emmctt, by the %*"ay, is first . vice-president of the Chicago Club, and serxing with him on the Board of Directors arc Don Hogan and Bill Hickey. 
DONNELLY P. (MAC) McDONALD, JR., flew in one day recently to Chicago to visit I*ullman Bank's quarters. He's from Fort Wayne, Ind., and is just about ready :o acquire Ins pilot's license. So he combined business with pleasure. 
At the Navy* game, in the jam-packed lobby of Morns Inn shortly before the kickolT, who should I run into but WALT MINDER who was in this countrx- briefly from his post as Chief, Budget and Statistics Branch, Headquarters European Exchange System, Nurcnberg, Germany. He frame in late and was mighty tickled to obtain a ticket to the gamc­
.As this is being written, STEVE JUZWIK is about ready to lead his Weber high school football team into Soldiers Field in Chicago for the 1955 City prep football championship. Weber won the Catholic title last week, winning from St. George and MAX BURNELL, '39, 3 to 0, despite the fact the team was outv.'ctghed 30 pounds a man. The press has been generous in reporting the extra cheering' effort Sieve's team has been reccinng from his twin daughters. (Ed. Note: Weber lost in city playoff.) 
At the 40tli Annual Chicago Tennis Association meeting, I ran into BILL FAY, ex'lennis captain and Scholastic boss in our era. Bill, who has been getting into the limelight via Collier's articles and aiding Red Grange in TA'nrasts, reports that OLEN PARKS, formerly of our class, has left Wilson Sporting Goods company and is currently tour di­rector for Jack Kramer's tennis stars who may be competing in your community any time ibis next year. 
One weekend in November, while visitinj St. Louis, I had a fine visit with ED MANGLESDORF and his wife Nancy al their lovely new suburban home. Ed came up with these notes: FRANK POLLNOW and his ^yifc were recently vacationing in the Ozarks where the fish didn't have a chance. . . . JACK SCHERER and his wife are among the most active members of the ~ Kansas City Notre Dame club. . . . JIM O'NEILL is doing well in New York with D'Arc>' Advertising'and he is work­ing on the Olio Mathieson account. .. . Ed sees RANK DAH.M occasionally. . . . GENE FEHLIG is back in St. Louis, handling concrete supplies. . . . ED GRIESEDIECK has recently been elected a vice-president of the brewery* operated by his family. . . . BOB HARGRAVE is heard from occasionally, whenever his trust duties at an Evansville bank permit. . . . FATHER QUE O'CONNELL, %%ho is studying for a Doctor's degree in ps>'cliolog>' at Catholic University, Washington, D. C , was in St. Louis not long ago on a vacation. . . . STEVE 

Mayor of Mishawaka Albert L. Doyle, '27, and Mrs. Doyle with their daughters and son. Al Doyle is a former Speech professor at the University. 
GRALIKER, at last reports, was still enjoying being|| 
a bachelor, or still unable to make aip his mind 
in Decatur. . . . And we learned that Ed's wife^ 
the former Nancy Gann, wants to build a junior^ 
edition of the ALUMNUS for graduates of Mary ^ 
ville College, St. Louis. . . . The latter's claims 
to sports fame is limited to field hockey and girisi|^ 
basketball. L . . However, we understand golf may^ 
soon go big-time there. 
Nice going, Ed . . . you really rounded up SM lot of chatter. * 

And this time wc got a letter, yes, something < a surprise, from JOE RORICK, PoughkeepsieJ New York: 
"It was with great surprise that I read abouE myself in the latest ALUMNUS. Let me bring youS up to date. Tlie promotion mentioned in the lasta issue took place in Fehruar>-, 1955. Effective No ^ vember 1, I have been put in cliarge of the IBM^ Building Construction Department, manager Is th ^ title applied at IBM. I am quite happy about the turn of events. .This department handles and is re-, sponsible for all of the new con>iruction that t^ taking place throughout the countr>* fot this rapidly^ expanding company. Needless to say, after holdinfl several jobs, I'm really ready to 'settle downJ Since our. graduation, I've held jobs with G.E.^_ Tennessee-Eastman, Eastman-Kodak, and the Brook^ haven National Laboratory*. 
"I am extremely proud of my wife, three boys.g and two daughters. We are residing at 27 Morrrll^ Avenue, Poughkeepsie, and would be pleased to hearj^ from any of the boys and have them drop in if|F' thev are in the vicinitv. I enjoyed the SMU gamc'^ %%ith JOHN GILBERT and TOM GE^VCHBRACKli ET. Both are with Caterpillar in Peoria. It soj happens that I am currently president of the MIcC Hudson Alumni group. Wc count JOHN HANNK FIN as one of our members. John procured tus^ law degree after the war, and that "together withj[ his E.E. degree rate him a job in IBM's patent de-^ partment, also in Poughkeepsie. He is doing sM good job and is well thought of. 
"Well, 1 must say I was jolted out of a long^ silence. Will tr>- to do better in the future." Fine suggestion for others, Joe. 
We had a phone call from EDWARD EMMEN-| EGGER who is personnel manager for United] Parcel in Chicago. Tliis firm is rapidly expanding] in the Midwest. And after leaving the Na\y, h ^ travelled throughout Wisconsin a year for IBM.^ A buddy for Joe Rorick. Emmy also reports seeing I FRANK O'DOWD in River Forest and JLM PUR­CELL, the former Glee Clubber. 
BERNIE CRIM.NHNS, the head football coach I at Indiana University, has just been given a new [ five-year contract although his old one had not j expired. Bernie went to Indiana four years ago I after coaching the backfield under FR/VNK i LEAHY. He and Coach Art Lc\vis of West Vir-j ginia handled the North team in the Shrine's | North-South College All-Star football game last? December. 
JAMES W. KELLY has been named assistant to | the president of Atlas Sewing Center, Inc., and hasi moved to Florida to assume his new duties. 
COL. JOHN A. SHEEDY, chief of general mcdi-j cine at Fitzsimons Army Hospital, was one of the I doctors who treated President Ebenhower when the! latter suffered a heart attack in Denver last year.| 
That's all for this time. Remember, if it's^Mj news, write Scoop. 
104 3  John L. Wiggins  
• '^^  4800 Fairlawn  Drive  
LaCanada,  California  

After the ND-Southern Cal. game in the Los An­geles Coliseum I ran into some of the class wearing I faces equally as long as thousands of other de-. jected fans. I spoke with BILL MURPHY who| lives in Burbank; JACK HARRIGAN, another Bur-: bank resident, checked out immediately after thc | game to return home to his week-old third citild Ex-campus announcer TOM COONEY, %vho no\* lives in Los Angeles, was there. BILL HERZOGI was up from Long Beach for the game; he was I talking to TOM VOLBERDING when I saw him. Tom lives in Van Nuys in the San Fernando | Valley. 
At the rally on the eve of the game I talked i with JOHN MURRAY, one of Jake Kline's stal­warts. John is an attorney in Santa Maria, Calif. I 
Early in December the University held a Class I Secretaries' Conference which I attended. While on ] campus I spent some time with FATHER GEORGE | 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
BERNARD who is now rector of Brecn-Pliillips ^Hall . Father George said that ART KEATING ^wa s a family man living in the Pittsburgh area; 
that BOB LE MENSE was practicing law now. I also had a cliance to chat with FATHER BOB PELTON, another M3er, who is rector of Cav­anaugh Hall. For one who has made infrequent visits to the campus since graduation it was quite an experience to see Noire Dame again—especially since the campus building program has been ex­panded. 
When ihe NCxV\ held its "no TV again" con­vvntion in Los Angeles during early Januar>- the 

• local Alumni Club sponsured a successful cocktail parly for the Notre Dame athletic staff attending the NC/\A sessions. Other guests were the compet­ing coaches on the ND schedule, and all Notre Dame alumni now iu the coaching profession. I spoke to TOM BROCK who is backfield coach at Omaha (Neb.) University. Tom said that his Alumni Hall roomie, BOB NEFF, was a paint and wallpaper man in Buchanon, \V. Va. 
9 
LOU RYMKUS, line coacli for the Green Bay Packers was there with Ins campus "twin," WALLY ZIEMBA who is coaching at Indiana Universitv 
with BERNIE CRLM.NHNS and BOB MADDOCK who also attended the affair. HARRY WRIGHl* was present. Harr>- is backfield coach at the Uni­versity of Georgia. Harr>- said that NEIL GREEN was with the Underwriters of America. I didn't see BOB DOVE, but I understand that he is a coach at the Universitv of Detroit. Class President "BUD" DUDLEY was there with his notebook scheduling teams for Philadelphia appearances against Villanova where Bud is Athletic Director. My wife and I spent an enjoyable evening with Peg and Bud Dudley while they were in L. A. 

m 
Last trip to Sau Francisco I talked with BUD V/\N BUREN who is now a top man with Wool­
worth in the Bay City. I also saw JACK TAL­LETT and spoke to DON MILLER who look in the Southern Cal. game. 
DUD SMITH was at the S.C. game rally. He said that he practices his four boys regularly on T-formation plays at Brouksidc Park in the shadow of the Rose Bowl in Pasadena. Dud says that if they play for ND his only daughter will have to enroll in '*lhc Rock" to cheer them on. 
From BILL MIDDENDORF (5329 42nd St., 
N.W., Washington 15, D. C.) came the announce-Kment of the arrival of Mary Patricia on December 
30. Bill writes: "Went up to Pliilly for the Penn game and just as I got inside Franklin Field I ran into MIKE COMERFORD, \%ho said they expect No. 7 on St. Patrick's Day. Before game time I thought I caught a glimpse' of BILL COSTELLO. A big cocktail party followed the game. I saw FR.\NK KUNKEL and his wife; TO.M MILLER and his wife. I was down in Norfolk recently and spent the evening with my best man, HARRY McKNIGHT and his family; they have two boys and one girl. He is with Graybar Electric. Here in Washington there are a lot of ND men. of course 
—but not t(H> manv *43ers. JACK McGRrVTH, 
• GEORGE KELLY, and FATHER BEDE FITZ­PATRICK, O.F.M. VINCE HOGAN Hv-s over in Virginia, and our old prof F.VTHER BERNARD Mc:WOY, is now president of Holy Cross College." 
There was a note on FRtVNK EBNER*s Christinas card announcing the arrival of Rosemar\' Ann on December 1. Also a note on DON GUY's card that he, too, had left the Dallas-Fort Worth (Tex.) area for Southern California. Don now lives in Encino, Calif, in the Valley. Another transferee is GEORGE HUTH who lives in Mentone, working 
>for a Sears subsidiary'. Will you please remember in your pravers the wife of JLM GALL.\GHER (5225 Sidney Rd., Cin­cinnati 38, Ohio). Iris Gallagher passed away on November 8. 
SAM McQUAID has been appointed branch man­ager in Atlanta by E. R. Squibb and Sons division of Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation. Sam has been with the company for almost 10 years and formerly was located in Kansas City. 
JAMES A. ALBERTSON, who has been associ­^atrd with Consumers Power Company as a lighting Pengineer for the past 10 years, has been transferred 
to the Bay City (Michigan) division. Jim has been active in the Notre Dame Alumn! Club and is a past Deputy Grand Knight of ihe Kalamazoo Coun­'cil Knights of Columbus. 
FRANK H. STUART was seriously stricken wiih polio last fall. He has been recuperating at Warm Springs, Ga., but is almost totally paral>-zcd ac­cording to a report from BILL MIDDENDORF. Frank and his wife, Barbara, have two children. His address at the present time is Franklin H. Stuart, Warm Springs Foundation, Warm Springs, 

The new mayor of South Bend, Edward F. "Babe'* Voorde, *36, and Mrs. Voorde pose with their family. In the past few years Mayor Voorde assisted the Irish coaching stair in scouting grid opponents. 
Ga. We urge the class to remember him in their prayers. 
DON HELTZEL says the Mass stipend fund is still in sad shape." Just write your name on a buck-bill and send it to Don. Or send it anon­ymously, but please send. Mail to: DON HELTZEL, 4100 E. Market St., R.D. No. 5, Warren, Ohio. The primary* purpose of tlib Fund will be to have Masses celebrated for deceased classmates. We would like to have a Mass said yearly for the group who have passed away; then wc would have individual Masses read as classmates passed on. The following is a list of our 1943 deceased; wc are attempting to build an accurate list and solicit your help in asking yon to notify us of any additions. 
CL.\SS OF 1943 
Deceased Members—May their souls rest in peace! 
JOHN BAITTLE, VITO W. a\PPELLO, THOM/\S J. COLLINS, EDWARD E. DOYLE, JOHN R. FELTES. 
A Moss was said on campus on March 13 for those listed below: ROBERT A. FISCHER, DR. NICHOUVS GULY.VSSY, PAUL J. KASHMER, JEREMIAH J. KIL­LIGREW, CHARLES T. LEWIS, JA.MES 
C. McGOLDRICK, JOHN J. McKEON, EDWARD D. McKI.M. R,VY.MOND J. Mc-MANUS, PAUL M. MALLOY. GEORGE 
E. MURPHY. WAYNE O'CONNOR. ED­WARD F. PAL.MAN, JOSEPH W. REYN­OLDS, JOHN WEICH.MAN. 
Remember them in your prayers 
1 94 4 George Bariscillo 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
During the weekend of December 9th your sec­retar>'. was privileged to attend a Conference of 
Class Secretaries held on the campus under the auspices of the Alumni Association. The weekend was devoted to panel discussions, interspersed with several very interesting and informative talks by members of the University administration. The various problems of the class secretary were re­viewed and all present agreed they had gained x-aluable experience from the exchange of ideas and tcliniques. The entire reunion program was carefully analysed with a view towards making fu­ture reunions even more successful than those of the past. (Reminder: Our I5th in '59. That should be the goal of every lo>'al '44cr.) The conference proved to be an enlightening experience—this, the sentiment echoed by all of the men present. .-Vnd all agreed that the task of the class secretary would be greatly eased if more and more class members pitched in and contributed to the class column. Will you help? 
Autumn reflections . . . seen at the Navy gome reunioning at the Oliver. . . . GRIF ALLEN, in from Voungslown where he is now a partner with Stambaugh-Voorhees Lumber Co. and president of .VD Alumni Club; CREIGHTON .MILLER, on hand from Cleveland where he is practicing law, also Alumni Club prcxy; VINCE DUNCAN, up from Mt. Vernon, III., where he dabbles in oil; also a brief run across NICK A.MATO and LOU COL­LERAN. ^HKE FR.-\WLEY stopped by our table to tell us hc*3 now living in Glendale, Missouri, and is with the National Cash Register Co. out of St. Louis. VIC KIMMEL also dropped by, as did JOHN LYNCH, who a with the AVE .MARIA on campus. We spoke with BOB LEHMAN, presi­dent of ND Alumni in South Bend, by phone and understand he's going great guns in the printing and engraving business. (Ed. Note: Bob is taking a leisurely Summer trip to Europe—so business MUST be booming.) 
Sivitching over to the Penn game in Philly, we had a brief reunion with BILL TALBOT in from New York for the game. Abo chatted with JACK McCfVBE. Jack is an examiner with one of the large insurance companies in the Wall Strert area and promL«ed to wrhz some news for the column. Deadline date for the next issue is April 1st, and I hope I have it by then, together with a few others. 
FRANK SANFILIPPO dropped us a line from 

weHifltumiiils 
ARTHUR N. BECVAR, 
.'Arthur N. BecVar, '33, former art 

editor of the "Dome," "Juggler," and 
"Scholastic," at Notre Dame, was re­
cently elected president of the Amer­
ican Societ)' of Industrial Designers. 
As an industrial designer for General Electric Co. since 1946 and Manager of the industrial design section of major appliances since '51, Art has been in­strumental in making the home chores of the American housewife considerably easier through the development of such innovations as the wall refrigerator, kitchen center and built-in appliances in a full range of mix or match colors. Three design patents have been issued to him. 
A popular lecturer at universities, colleges and civic groups, he is also a frequent magazine contributor on the subject of industrial design. 
In 1955, he served on the selection committee for the Good Design exhibition, helping to choose the best designs in home furnishings. Art was one of the leading speakers at the World Congress of Industrial Design, held in London in 1951. 
Married to the former Ja>'ne Lair of Newark, N. J., tlie BecVars and their three boys and one girl live in Louis­ville, Ky. 
BecVar also took an M.A. through a scholarship study in industrial design at Charles University in Prague, Czechoslovakia and later received an engineering certificate from Purdue Extension University. 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
So. Glcns Falls, N. Y. (14 Ferry Blvd.) seeking 
the whereabouts of GENE CARNEY. Can anyone 
help? Frank writes that DICK McCABE is practic­
ing law in Poughkccpsie, X. Y., with his father 

and brother, and closes his note with this: **ND in 
*59 for sure is my goal.** 
Our international correspondent from Mexico 

City, DICK LEON, reports the arriv'al of a son, 
Anthony Robert, on November 29th. 
Christmas brouglit more mail, including a card from BOB MARTINA and news that he is with a large electronic engineering iirm in California. BEN MAMMINA, now secrctar>--treasurcr of the Tri-State Motor Express, Inc., in Benton Harbor, Michigan, is trying to locale TOM KANE, for­merly here in Jcrsc>*. I regret I can't assist him from my records. (Ed. Note: Alumn! oflicc address for Tom is: 50 C-Add!son, Clifton, N. J.) Anyone know Tom*s whereabouts? TIic boys arc trying to stage a "small** *44 reunion in Chicago on St. Patrick*s Dav. Suggest lhc>- contact class prexy, JACK THORN*TON at 5449 Costal St., Chicago 51, III. It may be that the Chicago *44 club is planning a function about that time. 
LEN SWOYER's lovely wife. Ginger, subbed for Len and brought us up-to-date on her spouse. They're li\ing in Hanvinton, Conn. (Village Lane) and arc the proud parents of three boys and two girls. Tlie breadwinner of the family has come up the line with tlie Neu- Departure Div. of General Motors and is currently Eastern Regional Sales Mgr. His wife writes that he recently met JOE LANE in Stanford, Conn., and that they hear from the RAY TOLSONS frequently. Tlic latter have three children and Ray is in the shrimp busi­ness in Browns\*itle, Tcsas. Len also corresponds with GEORGE MOTY and JOHN HOMAN. The Mot>'s have two boys and two girls and the Ho-mans three girl^ Moty is in business with his father and lives in Redding, Calif. Homan owns and oper­ates bowling alle>-s in Chicago. Len's wife also passes along the news they hear from JOHN RILEY who is now in Aurora, III., practicing l3.w, (Many thanks. Ginger, for all the info. Your secretary* will be happy to accept letters from the wives of other class members. We'll even accept them from your children. Just get us some news about yourself and other '44 men you've run across, Iieard from or know about). 
EDWARD C. REARDON, JR., has been ap­pointed consulting adjuster for the All-State Insur­ance Company in their Gar>', Ind., district sen'ice office. 
JOHN C. FITZPATRICK has been named a referee of the Workman's Compensation Board in tlic State of New York. He has been assigned to the Albany office. Since 1953 John has been en­gaged in the general practice of law with the firm of Robinson and Holcomb, Plattsburgh, N. Y. 
JAMES F. CASEY is now an agent for the Provident Mutual Life Insurance Company of Phila­delphia and works out of their Buffalo office. His new home address is 134 Unger Avenue, Buf­falo 10, N. Y. As the ALUMNUS is getting ready for a press deadline, Jim and his wife, Jane, were expecting their fifth child early in 1956. 
E. A. "BUZZY** HASSETT, JR., has recently been named national sales director of KDUB-TV, Lubbock, Texas. He received his early broadcast training with stations in Indiana, loi^'a and Kansas Avhcrc he ser\'ed as sports and news director, special events director, program director and salesman. 
J.\.MES V. CUNNINGHAM is executive director of Independent Voters of Illinois and his office is located at 14 East Jackson Blvd., Room 1209, Chi­cago 4, III. The organization is an affiliate of "Americans for Democratic Action.** He and his wife, Rita, arc the parents of six children, the youngest born last fall. 
At this point a word about the DOME project. In our last issue we reported statistically the re­sponse at that time to TALBOT*s questionnaire. Since that writing se\'cral more have been returned. Tlie initial replies were encouraging and tliosc who took time to fill out the form w*erc generally en­thusiastic But a conference with the editors (BILL TALBOT and JOHN LYNCH), and a talk w*itli BOB LEHMAN, who is in the printing and engraring business, together with a discussion of the entire project with JIM ARMSTRONG during the recent class secretaries meeting, at ND, resulted in a general meeting of the minds of all concerned that at the present moment tlie project was a bit beyond our reacli, feasibly and financially. This docs not mean that the plan has been abandoned; rather, it was decided to postpone further efforts at tliis time, and consider instead producing a documentary in connection with our 15th reunion in '59. EiUier Talbot (300 Main St., White Plains, 
N. _Y.) or Lyncli (c/o Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind.) would be happy to receive your com­ments and suggestions. 
The "J. Edgar Hoover of the Amer­ican Medical Association" might be a name most apropos for Oliver Field, '31J director of the AMA's Bureau of Investigation. 
In this post Oliver protects standard^jfl and lawful medical practices through the exposure of quacks, nostrums, cul­tbts, faddists and other forms of pseudo-medicine in the profession. 
He's held the position for the past eight years. 
Although in no sense a police agency, the AMABI does bring \dolations of ^ the law to the attention of enforcement ^ agencies and furnishes reports to the same. 
His office also maintains an up-to­date liaison with all societies, clubs and groups—medical, civic and clerical-keeping the public well-informed on both the standard and false methods^ and practices in medicine. « 
The Fields live in Crystal Lake, III., and have a family of two boys and two girls. One boy, Edward, is headed for Notre Dame in '57. 
194 5 ^' Lesnicz 
122 TuUaniorc Road 
Garden City, N. Y. 
SECRETARIES* CONFERENCE 

I just returned from a trip out to Notre Dame, where it was my pleasure to meet with the secre­taries of the other classes lo discuss the \-arious ways we can improve our class organization, increase member-participation, keep our records more effec­tively, and plan reunions to be even more successful f J than they have been. Tlie two-day conference was highly successful, thanks to the hard work of JIM 
ARMSTRONG. JOHN* a\CKLEY, FATHER HES­^URGH , FATHER JOYCE, FATHER O'DON­^VsELL, and the many sccrclarics who came from 
all over the nation. Wc each went away from the meeting knowing more what our class organization means to the success of any class activity; we left with good ideas of how to strengthen and how to improve. 
CONSEQUENCES 
Just before press time, your secretary met with JIM CLYNES, class president; BILL MOORE, class treasurer; and TONY E<\RLEY, vice-president 
^^ast. Wc discussed plans for class growth—and 

^•lans for class acti\ity. Jim Clyncs is to appoint someone in the South Bend area to the chairman­ship of the committee on new members. It is felt that by searching old Domes, student lists of 1941 and 1942, and a-sklng YOU to send in suggestions, this committee can come up with many names of friends who were freshmen with us, and who might want to join the class. Can you think of anyone who should be in our class, but who is not? Drop nic a postcard and tell me. 
The *'high council" has also decided that wc will tr\-a get-together this year on a purely un­

^•fficial basis. Wc have chosen the Oklahoma foot-hall game at Notre Dame on October 27 as the rendezvous date, and will appoint a local chairman to handle reser\'ations for an after-game dinner or cocktail party. What do you think of such a plan? Let me know, and we shall pursue it. Getting tickets for that game will be entirely up to each member, but getting together after the game for some fun will be OUR responsibility .. . if YOU ivant the event. So RSVP Immediately, and give us some ideas. LOST MEMBERS 
^ I have received unforwardcd mail for scx'cral 
t^romincnt incnibcrs of the class, and ask each of you with a kind heart for the class and for this type of work to write me Immediately should you know where any of these members arc "hiding.** The "lost" members arc PHIL MARTIN (vice­president West, no less), DESMOND CURRIER, JOHN R. SULLIV.VN, WILLIAM M. FERRY, RICHARD R. YOUNG, WALTER L. JAWOR­SKI, and JOHN C. NOONAN, JR. 
CONGRATULATIONS To FRANK LINEH.AN xvho took unto himself a wife. Januar>* 7. To DAVE CONDON, who Is doing an outstand­t ng reporting and writing job for the Chicago Tribune. His "Wake of the News" column on the day of the Bobo Olson and Ray Robinson fight merits some sort of an award. Also his Interesting articles in the CATHOLIC BOY win many friends for that excellent kids* magazine. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT 
From DICIC LEITE: "The main purpose of this ,notc Is to Inform you that I have moved from 1208 Roosevelt to 1308 S. Stale Street, .Ann Arbor, 
Michigan. I certainly had a wonderful lime at the reunion. .-Ml the organizers have a big round of thanks coming from the entire class. The entire weekend was a tremendous success as was illustrated by the fact that evcr%-onc was completely tired out by Sunday afternoon. 
"Seeing the old gang was an experience I'm glad I didn't miss and certainly will not forget. I be­lieve the only sad point to the afTair was that some people were not able to make It, such as ART .\NDERSEN% JOE HAGGAR, CLIFF MARKS, D.\N O'DONNELL, D.\N LONG, BILL CLEMENCY, BILL OBER.MUELLER, and others I don't recall at the moment. I would have liked to have seen all of them. A vcr>' good example of what a good time was had by all is that "HOOK** WARD and "SWEDE" ANDERSEN almost completely lost their voices. *'Hook" rode back home with me and it was humorous to watch him tr\- to speak. 
*'There is something I almost forgot to tell you, hut I must or "Hook" will make my life miserable. I started making plans for the Reunion a month in advance. I planned ever\'thing so I could take the weekend off. Tlien came the eventful Friday when I left about noon and drove to South Bend and the campus. I entered Badin Hall anticipat­ing seeing all the bovs again, but no one was there!!! Then I checked my ALUMNUS, %vhlcli I had tossed Into the car, and discovered why. The reunion was the following weekend. So, I simply turned around and drove home and drove right hack again the following weekend. 
"Well, Al, I sign olT for now and I hope you were gratified with the returnees for the reunion. It was mighty nice seeing you and the other class members again; It had been a long time . . ." 
From DICK MARTIN: "I'm sorry that neither Phil nor I was able to make the class reunion. I did get to visit the campus and sec some of my profs during the middle of July while I was on a motor trip as far east as Detroit. (Dear Dick— please send me PhlFs home address.—Al.) 
THANK YOU 
Many thanks for the lovely Christmas cards and the many good wishes from each of you. It was nice hearing from vou. Thanks for your greetings: LARRY, TITA AND JUNIOR ROMAGOSA; PAUL .AND ELISE SMFTH; MARIE /\ND VINCE GUSHING; DOLORES AND HARRY RYAN AND FAMILY; FATHER BILL BEVINGTON; JI.M DONNELLY; ROSEMARIE, JOHN AND PETER HOSBEIN; BROTHER IS.A.AC JOGUES MOTZ, C.S.C.; JOHN B. CARON; ROBERTA, TO.M, BARBARA, MICHELLE ASD TOM HI MUL­HERN; HARRY BERLINER; THE DESPOTS GEORGE, PE.\RLA AND SUS.AN; CHUCK WOLF; JE.\N ANN AND TONY E.\RLEY; GOD­FREY, MARY ELLEN, DAA^E AND HOLLY BREMER; MARILYNN ASD DAVID a\RT­WRIGHT; DOROTHY AND ERNIE RxVUSCHER; JI.M BETTER; JIM CLYNES, JR.; Jx\NE /\ND CHUCK SARTORE; BOB ERKINS AND FAM­

FORT WAYNE—The movie, "Highlights of 1954," was presented at a football smoker held by the Fort Wayne Club in November. Pictured below arc Joe Casasanta, Jr. (left), event . chairman; Bob Centlivre of the Centlivre Brewery Co., host for the evening and Tom 
O^Reilly, club president. 
ILY; DON TREACEV; JOHN DOLAN; BAR­BARA, TOM, AND CHRISTOPHER JOHN BER­GIN; LINDA, RICKY, CORRINE AND DICK Sx\DOWSKI; MICHAEL, ELIZABETH, G£ORGL\, PAT AND BOB GOTTA; ANNE .\ND LINDY ROSANELH . . . BILL, KEN, TO.M, AND ADELE; AND THE SCHWIN-NS. 
CLASS DUES Tlierc Is one sure way of sending In a ^'vole-of­confidencc" in this work which wc are doing with the class. It can be done only by YOU. And it Is cfTectivc only If It is done right away—without causing Bill Moore to have to spend class funds to get mailings out to you to remind you. So don't put it olT. Do it now!! Send your class dues—whatever you feel you can contribute right now—to BILL MOORE, Class Treasurer, 720 In.ing Place, Plainficld, New Jersey. Remember that your way of helping the class is by contributing to the class fund, needed especially to send Mass cards for men of the class who pass away, and for such neces­sary things as mailings, stamps, and other expenses. Send a check today!! And don't neglect your class secretary'; send him some class news soon. 
ROBERT R. RUMELY has been appointed assbt­ant editor of Food Machinery and Chemical Cor­poration's bi-monthly magazine for its chemical divi­sions. The magazine Is distributed to 6,000 employes. 
1946 ^^^^ Tenge, Jr. 
31 Everett Avenue, 
West Hartford, Conn. 
Flash! BILL SLOWEY has accepted the chairmanship of the local reunion committee for the Class of 1946. He will appreciate any suggestions that you have for making your class reunion enjo^'able and successful. His address is 437 Manchester Drive, South Bend, Indiana. 
EUGENE V. FREIENSTEIN was married last 
Februar>' to Miss Marian Helen Kotz in Cincinnati, 
Ohio. 
REV. JOSEPH M. QUINN, C.S.C., has been ap­pointed Director of Vocations for the Eastern Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. For the past five years Father Qulnn has been associate director of Father Patrick Peyton's Family Rosary Crusades. He served In this capacity in the United States, India, Pakistan and North Africa. Father Quinn's new address will be at St. Pius X Scmlnar>', North Easton. Mass. 
ALFRED J. KAISER was recently elected to membership In the Chicago Chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants. He is systems an­alyst for Bauer and Black Division of the Kendall Company. 
IOA 7 James E. Murphy 
•'^ ' 1706 Churchill Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 
LEE STRUTNER'S new address Is 9028 Barcelona. Oakland, Calif. He is assigned to a hospital in Oakland and expects to be out of the Navy in 1956. Lee and his wife, Jen, are the parents of three voung sons, Steve. Greg and Frank. 
HOWARD BEILSTEIN and family have taken up suburban living by moving from their San Diego address to 1196 Hardin Drive in nearby EI Cajon, CaliL 
Class president SAM ADELO Is now with the Latin American republics section of the State De­partmen:. He travels around the country a good bit and recently visited with class vice-president FRANK SZVM/\NSKI in Detroit. 
BOB ROSENTHAL, after four years in the Navy Air Corps, has settled down in St. Louis and Is employed by the CarboIInc Co. as a sales engi­neer. Bob and liu wife Barbara have a new little girl, Lucy Marie. With frequent changes of address in the service. Bob has lost touch with many of his '47 friends, he says, and would like to hear from them. His address: 441 Lee Avenue, St. Louis 19, Mo. 

VINCENT J. GIESE, '50 
One of the most active workers in the Catholic Lay Apostolatc in tlib country' is Vincent J. Giese, '50, edi­torial director for Fides Publishers. 
Vince earned a Ph.B. at St. Joseph's College. CoUegeville, Ind., then spent two years at Notre Dame as a graduate student in pohtical science. He later received a master's in journalism from Marquette. 
As a member of the Young Christian Students at Notre Dame, he became interested in the lay apostolate and in Fides, at the time a new and almost penniless publishing group. In 1949, when Fides successfully published the pastoral letters of Cardinal Suhard, The Church Today, Giese opened a modest one-room editorial and sales office in Chicago, with himself on the pajToll at §25 a week. 
Since then. Fides has published sev­eral books on tlie liturg)' and on social action, and Giese himself has written a book on lay leadership called The Apostolic Itch. 
As an active member of the South Side Cloicago community in which he lives, he is working to reduce racial and religious friction. 
Giese exemplifies the type of lay apostle called for in his book: "Cath­olic lajonen who will join hands with other citizens in political and economic reforms, but with clean hands, moti­vated by the gospel and aware of their rare opportunity to bear Christian wit­ness." 

58 Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
JOE SHARP has been made a partner of Willctt 
and ^\Tiarlon, South Bend accounting firm. He 
joined the firm shortly after his graduation from 
the College of Commerce. 
ED SWEENEY has been with Stewart Smith and 
Co., a Manhattan insurance firm since June. His 
brother Ray is a sophomore at Notre Dame. 
J.ACK FREESE has opened his own law ofHcc 
in Tulsa's National Bank BIdg. After spending his 
first two college years at Notre Dame, he received 
his law degree at the Univcrsitv of Oklalioma. 
DR. WARREN G. KRAMER is taking post­graduate work in orthopedic surgerj* and parthology at the University of Vienna. He recently finished his orthopedic rcsidencv- at the Orthopedic Hospital of Los Angeles, During the Korean conflict he served at the Air Force General Hospital in Japan. 
JOHN DUFFV has been serving as president of the Notre Dame Club of New York during the past year. He is resident sales agent for foreign pro­ducers of industrial materials. 
Another member of the class of '47, JOHN U. 
WELCH, was prcsid^-nt of the Notre Dame Club of 
Indianapolis during 1055. 
104 0 Herman A. Zitt 
•'^* ' 635 Belmont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
DONAL E. HU.MMER has recently been ad­mitted into the law iirm of Marshall, Mclliorn. Bloch and Belt as a partner. The laiv firm is located in Toledo, Ohio. For the past 50 years it has been one of the leading firms in the State of Ohio and Don is the only Notre Dame graduate in the office. Don relumed to the Notre Dame campus in 1946 after a tour of duty in the Navy during World War II. While in school he was a member of the Wranglers, a charter member of the Natural Law Seminar pro­gram and a finalist in the Bengal Bouts. He is mar­ried to the former Nancy Gamer (St. Mary's 1946) and the>' arc the parents of three children, Mar^­Clare, William Garner and Suzanne. 
JOSEPH T. DORAN, assistant professor of soci­ology at Our Lady of Cincinnati College, is a new faculty member this year at the Xavier Evening College. 
JOSEPH T. KIVLIN, JR., has been appointed senior patent attorney in the S. C. Johnson and Son, Inc., Research and Development Division. In his new position he will be responsible for the securing and maintenance of all company inventions. 
FRANK J. ROTHING has been appointed assist­ant vice-president of the Midwest Stock E.\change in Chicago. In his new position he will be in charge of the auditing department. Frank and his wife reside in ^\'ilmette, III,, and they have three sons. 
104 9 John Walker "^ ' 826 Wing Street Elgin, Illinois 
GERARD J. BRENN,W, McHenrj-, III., has re­cently been elected to membership in the Chicago diapter of the National Association of Cost Account­ants. He is comptroller of the Ringwood Chemical Corporation. 
CARL APONE has just received a promotion to city editor of the Brownsville, Pa., Telegram as well as taking over the correspondent's job for the Pittsburgh Post Gazette. 
JOHN E. SWEENEY is working on the atomic energy project at Los Alamos, N. M. His address is 2290-A 35th Street, Los Alamos. John and his wife, the former Marilyn F. Barrett (St. Mar>*'s) arc the proud parents of John E., Jr. 
JACOB J. FRiMER received a master of arts de­gree in education at Western Reser\'c tJniversity's winter commencement. 
lOe n Richard F. Hahn ' ''" ' 6930 North Odcll Chicago 31, Illinois 
THEODORE W. WETT has been appointed an assistant editor on the staff of Chemical Processing magazine. For the past five years he has been a sales representative for Ringwood Chemical Cor­poration. He and his wife and two cliildren live at 511 North Russell, Mt. Prospect, 111. 
DR. ERWIN KOHN, Austin, Tcvas, has become a member of the research department of Nfonsanto Chemical Company's plastics dix-ision. Dr. Kohn received a master's degree from Notre Dame in 1950. 
GEORGE A. CYPHER has been appointed spe­cialist in insulating material for General Electric Company's Chemical ^faterials Departmeiit. He received a Ph.D. in organic chemistry at Notre Dame in 1950. 
GEORGE F. L:\BDIK is a patient at the U. S. 
CECIL E. JORDAN, '40 
New Mexico's "Land of Enchant­ment" has recently become a further source of pride and delight for Notre Dame Alumni there through the pio­neering public relations work of Cecil E. Jordan, '40. 
Organizer and inspirational leadei' of the Notre Dame Club of New Mexi­co in 1953, Cec has done much to add to the prestige and knowledge of the University in personal friendships and contacts with local people. 
As a result, Notre Dame influence is "in on the ground floor" of New Mex­ico's rapid expansion. (_ 
The Notre Dame Club, with Jordan I at the helm during its first two crucial I years, reports exceptionally high tum-| outs in all activities despite geographic! hardships and over 90% attendance of! Alumni within a 50-milc radius of| Albuquerque, its base of operation. I 
Cec is presently Labor Relations SecJ tion Supervisor for the Sandia Corpora-! tion, prime contractor to the Atomic | Energ)' Commission. I 
He served three years with the Navy! in the Pacific Theatre during World I War II and currently is a Lt. Com-| mander in the Active Navj' Reserve I Supply Corps. Cec has also workeJ for I.B.M. in South Bend (1945-48) and served mth the F.B.I. (1948-51). 
He is married to the former Pat Bannon of South Bend and has seven children; Gerry, 11; Mike, 9; Susan, 1; Joan, 6; Tommy, 4; Patty, 2 and Timmy, 1. 

Veterans Hospital, Lebanon. Pa., and would enjoy ^kcaring from his cla^mates. Also, please remember ^Ccorgc in your prayers. 
dnefifi (lemion Jttne 
IO C I Robert J. Klmgenbcrgcr 
• '^ ' 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
Flash! BUDDY POWERS and JIM FRICK have accepted the co-chairmanship of the local reunion committee for the 

G^ Class of 193l. They u'ill appreciate any suggestions that you have for making your class reunion cnjoj'able and successful. Their address is the University of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
JOHN F. Mca\RTHY is with the law firm of FuHer, Harrington, Scncy and Henry in Toledo. Ohio, after graduating from law school at Ohio Stato this past December. His address is 807 Owens-Illinois Building, Toledo, Ohio. 
The 14th Notre Dame alumnus to join the staff of 

the Con\'air Division of General Dvnamics in San gpiego, Calif., is JOHN ALLPORT, whose new mail­in g address is 922'/2 Reed Ave,, San Diego. 
TOM CARTER had a successful freshman season as football coach at St. Augustine High School, San Diego, and finbhcd with a record of five wins, two defeats and one tie. Tom's new year started on a sad note, however, with the death of his father in Los Angeles on Jan. 6. On Feb. 11, Tom hosted all the prep, college, scr\ice and parochial grammar school coaches of San Diego county at a football clinic conducted bv Oklahoma's Bud Wilkinson. 
BILL WALSH, 17 Badger St., Concord, New 

Hampshire, writes that he has been out of the ^er\"ice for two years and has a couple years of ^Architecture work under his belt by now. Bill is 
planning on the reunion—how about the rest of you fellows. 
BOB NICKODEM writes that they had their second child, Michael Moran, on September 29. Congratulations, Bob. At the Iowa game. Bob reports he saw JOHN GERWE who is a securities man in Davenport, Iowa; GENE SMITH who is in the Judge Advocate Section of the A'lr Force in \fichiganj JACK CURR/\N who is working for Ford ^^otor Co. in Detroit; and JOE CREEN also from Iowa. Bob reports that they stopped ofl" to sec Helen and BILL C/\REY in Chicago who are kept 
^ms y by painting their new home at 5007 Morse in 
^^kokic and that Bill is learning all about the cookie manufacturing business in his father-in-law's busi­ness and attending DePaul Law School four nights a week. Bob also saw GUS FLICK recently and reports that he is with the Jetvcl Tea Co. in Chi­cago. Thanks. Bob, and sec you in June. (Bob's address: 1503 N. Sixth St., Shcbovgan, Wis.) 
LOUIS DAUGHERTY, 3420 Springbrook Dr.. Nashville 4, Tenn., writes that while JERRY LEE, who is a chemist in Seattle, was \'isiting in October, his wife presented him with their second daughter. Congratulations, Lou. Lou is still working for an 
^irchitecC in Nashville doing structural design work. 
^ JACK FERRICK wrote to inform us that he is being transferred with the Sales Department of the National Gypsum Co. to Akron, Ohio, and his new address is 731 Aberdeen St., Akron 10, Ohio. 
JOE MOSCHELLA, 63 Bokec Court, Apt. 2-K, Brooklyn 23, N. Y., -writes that they have been blessed with a son, Vincent dePaul, on June 9, 1955. Congratulations, Joe. He Is still teaching and coaching and enjoys it vcr>' much. Also, Joe is looking forward to June; arc you other fellows making plans? Joe also writes that BILL CONROY 
a|-cccivcd his M.D. from Georgetown Medical School ^this last June. 
JOHN HALEY got out of the Marines last sum­mer and is now in ND Law School. BUDDY POWERS is working for the ND Foundation in the North and West. 
From RICHARD J. HAUSNLVNN: ".\fy wife and I arc residing at 12 Aldrich St., Aiken, South Ca­rolina. I am presently employed by the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, Sa\'annah River Project, Di\-ision of Security." 
From CLIFF COLLINS: "At present, I am at­tending a Squadron Course at the Air Command 
% 
and Staff College, Maxwell AFB, Alabama. By this coming April we expect to be ground out as hard core professional Air Force officers. Then I will return to Barkdalc t%'orking as a project engi­neer in the test and tactics branch of SAC. 
*'At this time, I have made tentative arrangements to attend the fifth Class of *51 reunion being held in June. At Maxwell I met Col. Borecky, formerly assistant professor of Air Science in the Notre Dame AFROTC." 
AL DeCR^\NE, '53, is out of the Marines and going to work in New York City. MARTY O'CONNOR, his wife Joyce and t^vo children are living in Vetvillc and Marty graduates from Law School this June and would like to move back to the Oklahoma territory. JIM FRICK, with the ND Foundation, just bought a new home at 1093 Riverside Drive in South Bend. (Ed. Note: It is a large house and the new owner invites '51ers to partake of his hospitality when visiting the campus.) 
JACK CORYN is still baching it and is assistant district attorney for Rock Island County, in Illinois. TOM LOGAN is out of the Army and on a teaching fellowship at Indiana University Law School. NEIL FICHTEL is coaching and teaching at Marmion in Aurora, Illinois, is married and has three chil­dren. BUD HERR is living in Chatsworth, III., and working in the bank there. They also have a child. JERRY GROOM is married and moving to Denver to go into the trucking business. 
BILL PUETZ, 701 Sheriand BIdg., South Bend, Ind., is working for the Group Department for Travelers Insurance Co. and has stopped in to see us here in Fort Wayne. Bill is still baching it, too. 
JOE SHELLY graduated from Northwestern Law School and is currently working in the Trust De­partment of the First National Bank of Chicago. Joe is getting married and building a new home. JIM MARTEN graduated from Georgetown Law School in 1954. 
JIM GARRIG is married, living in Chicago and going to Northwestern Universit>*. BILL &\REW is married and living in Chicago. JIM BATES is now out of the serxice, graduated from Georgetown Law School a couple of years ago and is going into the practice of law. 
DAVE NAUGHTON is married and attending ND Law School and expects to graduate in June of '57. 
BILL .\fcLfVUGHLIN is also in ND Law School. GENE JOHNSON is married, has two children and graduates from ND Law School this June. DICK COTTER graduated from Law School in *54 and is now a lieutenant in the Air Force, a jet pilot, and is stationed at Dover Air Force Base, Dover, Delaware. 
Received Christmas cards from the following; 
AL, r\nn and Robbie GUARNIERI, who Is liv­ing in Warren, Ohio, and working for his father in the candy and tobacco wholesale business. 

JERRY H.\NK, Joyce and Kathy, 4667 W. 87lh Place, Oaklawn 9, 111. Jerry is working ^vjth his father. 
JLM FRICK, Bonnie and all the little men. 

TOM MULLEN, who is still with Piasecki Hell-copter Co., in \Va5hIngton, D. C-, and became en­gaged at Christmas time, with plans being made for a spring wedding. Again, congratulations, Tom. 
RAY MILLER, his wife, son, daughter, and couple month old baby. 
DICK MacDONALD, Joey, Margaret and Bryan. 

ED Mc&\RTHY, '50, who is expecting to be transferred from New Orleans to Illinois in January. 
FRANK GROVE who is an accountant In Rich­mond, Va. (where else?) still baching it, I under­stand, and is planning to see everyone in June. See you then. Frank. 
HARVEY O'NEILL, Nancy and Jeffrey who Is still located in Peru, Indiana. ED SULLIVAN and Lucy, 11 Center Lane, Hamburg, New York. JOHN .MOORE, 1695 Gracfield Rd., Birmingham, Mich. John is working for the Control Sales Staff of General Motors and is still on the loose. (John, if I didn't correctly spell your street address, come on down to Fort Wayne for a weekend and give me the correct spelling.) 
BUD HERR, Barbara and Tommy says, .**ile, too." Address, Chatsworth, Illinois. BILL i\NHUT. Mary Claire, Billy, Francie and /\my. Address: 8170 Ford Road, Ypsllanti, Mich. 
BILL WHrTESIDE, Eileen and Billy. Address: 

R. D. No. 2, Trumansburg, N. Y. BOB HAUTER and family: Route 1, Lyndon, III. HARRY HANI­GAN, who is \vorkIng with his father in Chicago. BUDDY POWERS, 915 N. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
BOB AULD who is living In Flushing, N. Y., and attending Law School after ser^nng three and a half years as a lieutenant (jg), pleasure cruising on the Atlantic and Mediterranean. Bob expects to be back in June—see you then. 
BOB MOSES, Lt., now in the Na^y and says he'll see us in June. 
BOB EDMONDSON and Mary: Apt. 3-D, 60 E. 9Gth St., New York 28, N. Y. Hey, Easy, arc you coming back this June and forgetting about the East for a few days? 
TOM SNYDER from Oconomowoc, ^VTsconsin. 

IL\NK .MADDEN. Sally, Lynn and Kathy. Hank ^v'as discharged from the Na\y on December 29 and said to use the following address 'til we get a new one: 5337 Third Avenue South, Minneapolis 19, Minn. (Hank, let's plan on the reunion, bring the family up to keep ilargaret company and we'll take off for ND. O.K.?) 
PAT BARRETT and Joan. Address: 23-C Sun­nyslde, Lawrence, Kansas. BILL a\REY and Helen. Address: 5007 Morse Avenue, Skokie, Illinois. JOHN F. McOVRTHY received a degree of Juris 
ROME—^Mectin^ of Notre Dame alumni and friends included: Seated (left to right): Miss Kate Kanaley, Miss Kate Miller, Mrs. Adele Miller, Mrs. Bernard F. (Dillon) Weadock. Standing {left to right): Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., Louis Bosco (ND Junior class), Prof. Paul Bosco (ND prof., on leave), Vincent McAloon, *34, Alfonso Tufano, TIVA rep­resentative, and Rev. Bernard E. Ransing, C.S.C. 
Doctor at Ohio Slate University in December, 1955. 
Prn-atc second-class GLETUS GILSON has been 
assigned to the Corps o[ Engineers Research and 
Development Laboratories, Ft. Bclvoir, Va., after 
completing basic training at Fort Jackson, So. Car. 
He was formerly employed by 'Westinghousc Electric 
Corporation, Pittsburgh, prior to entering the ser\'­
ice. CIctus is married to the former Ruib Palma 
of Pittsburgh and they Iiave one daughter. 
It is reported that ABEL.\RDO PETIXO uho received a master's at Xolrc Dame in 1951, has established a language school in Washington, D. C , to train South American students in the English language before they enter college in the U. S. 
JOSEPH M. DUKERT has received a fellowship granted by the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies to the Bologna, Italy, Center. The Bologna Center was established by Hopkins in 1955 to provide a place for the training of /Vmerican foreign affairs students in a European environment and at the same time afford European students an opportunity to carrv* on graduate study at its high­est level under an -American educational program. Joe ha-i; been a member of the editorial slafT of the Baltimore News Post. 
CARL A. EIFERT is working for United Press and his new address is 2746 East Jolmson Street, Madison. Wisconsin. He was married last April. 
JOE GALLOWAV is now %\ith Ansco Division of General Aniline and Film Corporation. FRED BRICE is employed with the Chcmurg>' Division of tile Gliddcn Company. 
JOHN a\R P and bis wife. Betty Ann, are the proud parents of a daughter born on July 2, 1955. John is stationed at the Army Chemical Center in Mar>]and. 
DR. GERALD j . KAV.\KAUGH, a member of St. Luke's Hospital Medical SiafT, Chicago, III., was the winner of the first "Dr. Will F. Lyon A^rard." The cash prize is given annually to the St. Luke's intern who "in the performance of his duties best exemplifies the high devotion and dedicated sen-ice which have characterized Dr. Lyon's professional career." Gerald received his medical degree from Northwestern University and is now on a fellowship in the Mayo Foundation. 
By now all of us have received a couple of mail­ings on the Reunion in June. So let's start making plans right now. One good way to be sure that some of the old gang will be there is to start writing the ones you would most enjoy seeing again. Let's 
1 95 2 Harr>- L- Buch ^ ^ 986 National Road "WTiccling, "West Va. 
LARRY L. SCHNEIDER received a masters of business administration degree from the University of Minnesota in December, 1955. 
ROBERT R. J.AY is attending the Han-ard Graduate School of Business Administration. 
JOHN MAZUR serxcd as backfield coach under head coach ANDY PILNEY, '36, for Tulanc's 1955 football team. He and THOMAS A- FEDOR arc roommates in New Orleans. Tom is in his senior vear of medicine at Tulane. 
RE^^ THO.\L\S M. FEELEY, C.S.C.. was or­dained a pncst in Rome, Italy, in Octt^cr, 1955. He will remain in Rome for another year of study before returning to New Bedford, Mass., to celebrate his first solemn Mass in his hometown parish. 
DONALD F. a\SSIDY has been awarded a Con­vair Fellowship this year. He plans to complete his studies at Cornell University. 
DON CARILLO's new address is Box 519 Har­lingen .AFB, Harlingcn, Texas. Don is stationed there with the Air Force. 
JAMES F. MUTSCHELLER, captain of Notre Dame's 1951 football squad, was married to Joan Claire Ederer in Mary, Star of the Sea Church, Lajolla, Calif., on January* 15. The couple honey­mooned in Mexico City and Acapuico, Mtvico, They will live in Baltimore, Md., where Jim is a \"alued member of the Baltimore Colts professional football 
team.  
195 3  Thomas W. Reedy North Tou-n Refrigeration Corp. 4711 Lincoln Ave., Chicago 25, Illinois  

(Ed. Note: Quick change of "quarterbacks'' finds Tom Reedy discharged from Ser\-ice and resuming Class Sec\-. duties. Our personal thanks to Gene Fannini! who did a superb job in Tom's absence. —John Cacklo-.) 
JOSEPH P. aVNOUSE is stationed with the Armv in Japan. His address is Pvt. Joseph P. Canousc, US 52341952. HQ Third Battalion, Tliird Operational Group, 8242 AU, APO 9, San Fran­cisco, Calif. 
ADOLPH L. "PETE" KUCHARCZUK, married and the father of two children, is employed as an insurance agent and has just purchased a new single dwelling located at 625 Fairmont Avenue, Fullcrton, Lehigh Countv, Pa. 
ROBERT J. KOSYDAR received a bacliclor of laws degree from Ohio Stale University at com­mencement exercises iiOd December 16, 1955. 
WALTER P. WOLFF is working on the atomic energ\- project at Los .Mamos, New Mexico. 
JAMES P. O'BRIEN has recently been discharged from the scr\*icc and his new address is 3039 East 91st Street, Room 376, Chicago 17, Illinois. 
JAMES R. EHINGER has joined the staff of the Ehingcr Realty Company in Lansing, Mich. He was recently discharged as a corporal after two years of service in the Army Transportation Corps including duty at Ft. Richardson, Alaska. 
HAROLD R. MILLER, Goshen, Ind., has en­rolled as a member of the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thundcrhird Field, Phoenix, Arizona. He is taking the school's intensive training course in preparation for a career in American busi­ness or government abroad. 
SALVATORE C. SCUDERI has been awarded a 

WASHINGTON, D.C.—Coach Terry Brennan of Notre Danie speaks to members of the ND Club at testimonial luncheon held in his honor at the Statler Hotel in January. Brennan was in the national capitol to receive the Coach of the Year A^vard from the Washington Touchdo^vTi Club. Pictured below arc Brennan, Chairman Gaylord P. Haas, and Club President Howard J. Schellenberg, Jr. 
scholarship in the Harvard Law School. 
Lt. (jg) ROBERT STRALEY and his wife aij the proud parents of a son, Thomas Judc. Bob stationed on the USS Maur>'. He has applied for] a Fulbright Scholarship. J 
JIM GIBBONS is coaching basketball this year. at Mt. Carmcl High School in Chicago. He re-j ccntly finished a tour of duty in the Armed Forcesi 
JOHN E. PORTA has recently graduated from' OCS in Newport, R. I., at the U. S. Nax-al Stationi 
3  
195 4  ^^ - ^­  A­  Pflaum, Jr.,  USNK  
•^^  USS  Gunston  Hall  (LSD-5)  J  
c/o  Fleet Post Office  %  
San Francisco,  California  9  

EDWARD R. O'CONNOR has recently been rc ^ leased from the Air Force after two years in St.^ Louis with Headquarters, Air Training Command,^ and has been appointed an instructor in government^ at the University of Texas. His address is Bo:d|^ 8010 University Station, Austin, Texas. m 
The first written matter of each year usually con^^ cerns itself with the transcribing of resolutions, thisjj matter being the first of its tjpe in the 'SfiS .\LUMNUS win be a slight exception. The cxceplft lion being that this comes as a suggested rcsolutioi^ that each and cverx' one of us remember the Nolrea Dame Foundation this year and that each of us^ drop a line to the class secretar>' offering news of^ our latest address and activities. h^ 
Mail over the past few months has been slow so^ I don't have too much to pass on to you at tliis?^ dale. I managed to make it up to the Southerit^J California game last Fall where I saw many fa^!^ miliar faces at tlic outstanding rally sponsored bya the local club and also during the game the nextl day. A quick rundown follows on those in at ^ tendance. Capt. DON PENZ^V is a base athletft officer at Camp Pendleton. HUGH BRAY is workt| ing in the sales department of Bullock's Dcpart|l mcnt Store in Los Angeles. GEORGE MORESCOil DAVE MAUGHER and BILL STANLEY are in | the Marine Corps and stationed out here on thel coast. JOHN KELSCH is a Supply Officer at Naval| Air Station, San Diego. JOHN KEENAN is anj Executive Officer of a Marine Company at Cam ^ Pendleton, along with ARNIE KARP and JLM I POWERS. DUKE R^\NK is at Fort Ord withl the Army, but still in manager's togs when its comes to getting Inside of the stadium. MIKE I MAHONEY has some choice shore duty with tli ^ Na\"y Port Control OITicc in San Diego. BOW Wx\RD is a mainstay in the Engineering Depart-i mcnt on the USS Philippine Sea (CVS-47). BOBj WRIGHT is serx-ing as the Communications Officer! on the USS Calvert (APA-32). Saw ED MADI-| GAX, JOE BUSCH, ARMANDO GIRLADO and| FRANK BAPTISTA, but didn't get a chance to | find out what they were occupying their timel with. JIM GOULDIE is an Engineering Officer oni a destroyer now scr\'ing In the Pacific. g 
First Lt. BOB CHICKEY reports from the Ath-1 letic Officer's desk up at MC/\S, El Toro, Califor-^ nia. Chick reports that he was recently engaged^ to a "wonderful redhead" bv the name of MiiV Judy Curr>-. Pvt. JAMES W. SKEESE can be | readied at the following address: US 52 395 992;5 9952-TU-MAH, Tacoma, Wash. | l 
At long last I heard from CHARLIE "TOAD'g TOUHEY who seems to have sur\'ivcd two battles^ last summer with hurricanes. Charlie is now with^ the New Bedford Standard Times in the advertisinj^ department. His present address is: Pica Beachj^ Matlapoisctt, Mass. First Lt. JOHN BIERBUSSEJ writes from his office at 8th Quartermaster Co., Stli^v Infantr>' Div., Fort Carson, Colorado. He relates^ that he and the Mrs. were blessed with the arrival^ of John Christopher last fall. John includes tli^ following information in his letter. "There are3 four of us out here at Carson from the Class ofl '54, MARTY TUCH is with 'D' Co. of the filsti Regt., JOHN VISINTINE is with Tank Company^ of the 61st. and JOHN CASEY is with the SVc^ Company of the 61st. Tuch and Visintine just r<^|; cently returned from the swamps of the Southern] 
U. S. after being in Operation Sagebrush. '^^^Ti; HUNTER was on the post for awhile; I saw hiin'| one afternoon practicing football with the Carson^ squad; he has since shipped out for the Far Eas ^ JOE D'AN'TONI is with G4, 4th Div. in Europ*; an|| married my sister there last Fall. CHARLIE WACr^ NER, TED EWING and DxWE BICKEL arc alsS^ with Uncle Sam in Europe. CARL TRAIL is wit p the Army in the Southern half of the \Vcstcrn^ Hemisphere, not too sure just where." Thanks fofc the help, John. m 
MILT BEAUDINE, JAKE NOONAN. CHRIS| MALONE arc all in the San Diego area fighting^ the inport war. FRAN MEt\NEY can be reached^ at: USS Persistent (MSO-491) c/o US Na\-al Sta^ tion, Tacoma, Washington. I understand that h ^ is on the latest in minesweepers, but complaininn 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March-April, 1956 
about not having much time at sea. It's too late 
«
ou', but I would have been inlercstcd in working lit a trade with luni not too many months ago. GENE HOWLEY sends another brief note from Nf\S, Pensacola, so lie must be back in the cockpit again. A nice long letter, which I seem to have mis­placed, was one of the features of last Fall's cor­respondence. It came from MRS. RICHARD HOHMAX, liowever, the family's Christmas card nils me in with more current information. Rich is a 2nd Jolin in the Corps and can be rt:achcd at: Apt. Xo. 10—Gothwaite Apts., Triangle, Virginia. ^^5 of last November 25tli they arc the proud ^iarents of another prospective Marine, Richard Burton Holiman. Jr. 
BOB RAYMOND sends grcctinss from the USS Murrelet (MSF-372) c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Calif. He reports that he recently completed a tour of duty in West Pac. TOM MURPHY prom­ised a letter on Notre Dame activities in the Tokyo area which looks like it won't arrive until next issue. (Ed. Note; See Tom's fine report of alumni activities in the Club news section under the head­ing, Tokyo.) Lt. PHIL BREH.M sent Christmas 
^w^cetings from Box 245-0.\IS, Dover AFB, Del. A 
^c e note from JACK PITT^VS' wife, Elaine, re­ports that he is completing an extensive tour of the Sfedlterranean shortly and quite anxious to get back with John Joseph, Jr. 
JERRY TURLEY reports In from his Battalion Commander's desk at Naval Training Center in San Diego. He describes his olTtcIal duties as wiping noses of about a thousand "boots." He reports that HIL/\RY RAUCH recently attended the CIC School at Glenvlew and expected a set of orders to an East Coast ship upon Its completion. A long letter from BILL GUILFOILE reports that he is on his way 
^p r another lon^ trip on the USS Tanner, this one 
^ft Turkey and thereabouts. Bill reports seeing TONY GARRUTO recently, Tony being the Ex­ecutive Officer on a MSTS APA. In spite of this enviable position I understand that Tony still wants to get out. PHIL BOLIN is located at K-3 Air Base, Pohant;, Korea, where he is acting as the Croup Intelligence Officer. Phil tells that JIM RICHARDS was married last summer to the for­mer Miss Nancy Reidy and he is presently in Flight school In Texas. 
JOHN B. MAGILL is stationed at Fort Mon­mouth, N. J., in the Research and Development Division of the Signal Corps. 
^ANTHONY J. DEUTSCH is studying law at ^\otre Dame. ARTHUR L. PASKALIS has recently been com­missioned -ensisn in the U. S. Na\*y at Newport, 
R. I. He graduated from OCS at the Naval station there. 
RICHARD E. LYON has joined the staff of Esso Research and Engineering Company's economics division. 
DAC JOHN P. JO.VES has a new address as follows: Comptroller Dlx'ision, Metz Quartermaster Depot. APO 216. New York, N. Y. John is work simplification officer at the QM Depot in Metz, 
^•^rance. He was married In Berne, Switzerland, on 9-ptember 8, 1953, to Yvonne Bauer of Sioux Citv, Iowa. 
E.ARL E. HOLMES, JR., is stationed with the Armed Forces In Stuttgart, Germany. His \%-ife is also in Stuttgart with him. 
From TOM FIELD, assigned to Headquarters Battery, 537ih Field Artiller>' Battalion, Fort Sill, Oklahoma: 
**ANDY B.-VUER Is with the Marine Detachment as a lieutenant at Twenty-Nine Palms, Calif. He b married and he and his wife have a new son, Matthew George, born last fall. 

^*'ENS . WILLIAM E. BURKE is stationed on the ^S S Wisconsin. "DAVE BURRELL is studying for the priesthood at Moreau Seminar^'. 
"D.\N COLEMAN is presently working for Bet­ter Homes and Gardens as head of the merchandis­ing division—his address is 23-G Wakonda Village, Des Moines 15, Iowa. 
"LT. ROBERT N. DINEEN attended the Army Finance School at Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Ind. LT. JEROME F. DIXON, when last heard from, was at Wright Air Development Center, Dayton, 

* hio. 
"PFC. ROBERT N. ETTELBRICK is with the 7th Army Headquarters In Stuttgart, Germany. JOHN P. DOXOHUE is studying for the priest­hood at the MaryknoU Novitiate in Bedford, Mass. 
"PFC. PETER R. FR.\NK is assigned to the 33rd Infantr>- Regiment and stationed at Ft. Kobbc, Canal Zone. 
"ENS. CHARLES KELLER Is in Uncle Sam's Navy and scr\-ing aboard a fleet tanker, the USS Nantahala. 
"ENS. JOHN J. GRIFFIX is aboard the USS Grouse, an old wooden minesweeper. PETER X. 
DR. ROBERT L. JACKSON, '30 
Dr. Robert L. Jackson, '30, a nation­al authority on rheumatic fever and children's nutritional problems, is now professor and chairman of the new Department of Pediatrics at the Uni­versity of Missouri School of Medicine. Before j'oining the Missouri faculty September 1, Dr. Jackson was a pro­fessor of pediatrics at the State Uni­versity of Iowa. 
After graduation from Notre Dame with a bachelor of science in chem­istr>', magna cum laude, he entered the University of Michigan, earning his 
M.D. in 1934. He had served on the Iowa faculty since 1937. 
Considered an expert on diabetes. Dr. Jackson trained at Iowa under the late Dr. Philip C. Jeans, one of the outstanding clinicians and teachers of the countr)'. One medical authority says that Dr. Jackson's care of diabetic children "has set an example to all the world." 
He is the author of more than 50 scientific publications on various phases of growth, nutrition, metabolism and endocrinolog>' related to children. Currently a member of the Council of American Diabetes Association, he also serves on the Study Section of the U.S. Public Health Senace. 
Association with children isn't limit­ed to Dr. Jackson's working hours. He and his wife have seven claildren—sue girls and a boy—ranging from five to 16 years old. 

STAVROULAKIS received a master's degree in August at Ann Arbor, He planned to leave last fall for London to work at the London School of Oriental Studies. 
"LT. CHARLES J. WEITZEL is with the 47th Infantry stationed in Germany.*' 
That about sums it up from this end. From the material above you can tell that the corre­spondence is not coming In In adequate amounts. Might I suggest that upon the completion of your reading this that you sit down and scratch out a quick postcard offering your latest address. It's not too early for lis to start collecting an accurate mail­ing list of the class to be used for information and planning on our five-year reunion, just a fleeting three years off. 
1955 ^^- l^onias F. O^AfaUcy "'"' 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 
Another deadline approaclies for the class coltmin so I thought that it u-as about time to dig into the archives and see what I could come up with. I spent SK weeks in New York at Navj- expense while I learned the ins and outs of the Exchange program. During this time I ran into more of the clan from '55 than you would meet on a Saturday night at Joer's. Again, Notre Dame was well repre­sented at the Exchange school and we all had a fine time in the big city. JOHN WEITHERS, GUY PIERCE, FILANK CUNNINGHAM, ED KELLY, and JACK SORANNO were all there en­joying every minute of it. We were receiving 512 a day extra pay 50 we were able to afford subway fare quite often. 
While we \vere In New York we attended the closed television broadcast of the ND-Nav>- game and the place was full of familiar faces. JOE N/VSSIF was there and I was quite surprised to hear that he had finally decided that the North had a little bit to offer. Joe is working for the Texas Company in New York. Also in the petrol end of the economy is JACK TOCAR who works in the same office. Looks like Texaco is in good hands. Fresh from the ivy covered walls of Yale La«' School was JOE DALEY looking very snappy in his oxford gray chesterfield and homburg. Actu­ally, he wasn't dressed any different than DAVE McCi\RTHY who looked very snappy also in his charcoal gray dinner jacket and derby. I wonder whatever became of pegged pants? 
Our next trip was to Philadelphia for the Penn game and thereby hangs the tale. For those who were unable to make the trip I can only offer my sympathy for that weekend was the greatest thing since the invention of the wheel. We had no sooner arrived than wc met DON DUFFY who, from all appearances, is enjoying a very successful stay with the BBD&O advertising agenc\-. UTiere a party weekend is in progress, there also is BUTCH VALLxVCE. You can be sure that he didn't miss this one and he took time off from Fordham Law School to sip a lew cool ones with the group. Acting as foreman of the jury %v-as S.ARS FORD who abo closed the Law texts long enough at Georgetown Law School to get to town for the festivities. Straight from the Bengal Bouts to you came TOM MAGILL who recently entered the ring for Western Electric. Tom assured mc that things are quite different now than they were during the days of the "squared circle." The Marines were there in force and the situation was well in hand. FRANK CLEL^VXD, still limping from hb injury in the Shrine game, RICH MAKUCK, JOHN FAHLE, TI.M DEVEREUX, DICK CAPK.\, JACK ALA­HOXEY, and BILL BYRXE formed a fine group and almost had mc signing enlistment papers on the dotted line. Could it be that all of them plan to make the Afarinc Corps their careers? In the guys and dolls department I found BOB KUNZE escorting a lovely young thrush and believe it or not, he's the one who took her home at the end of the evening. While working at Firestone he must have learned to thwart the ad^-anccs of enWous classmates. TED LAUGHUN didn't seem to be lacking companionship as he discussed the latest medical developments with one of the tlirce female med students at Georgetown. Apparently Ted hasn't been concentrating just on Biology specimens. To remain medicinal for a moment, the practice seems to be taking forward strides as KEV O'DONNELL attends Georgetown Medical School, JOE SWIFT attends Penn Medical School, FRED ^VHITFIELD attends Virginia Medical School, and Penn boasts the presence of another ND grad, JOHN O'BRI^. If after reading this column, you feel a little ill, these arc the men to contact. I overlooked BERNIE SMITH when I mentioned the Quantico contingent and I'll just note that the gold bar looks as good on him as it did on the rest. Xumbered among 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March-April, 1956 61
# 
DENVER—Not Hawaiian dancers; just conuiiittcc members of the Denver Notre Dame Club who planned the annual Christ­mas dance. From top to bottom they are: Donald A. Klenc, Thomas J. Gargan and 
A. L. Dowds. 
llic legal eagles lucntioncd prcviou-ly are RICH MCDONALD ulio U attending Georgetown l^w School and JIM NORTON wlio lo!d me where he's taking Lau* but my mcmor>* slips mc for the mo­ment. However, I'm sure that he's burning the midnight oil wherev-r he is. BOB HUTCHISON and his wife were able to make the game but 1 didn't get a chance to talk to them. BILL MUL­LER was able to get away from an ofHcc party long enough to drop ov-r and have a few while he nar­rated the nrw developments in the printing business. I might add that on=e wc all got together. Bill never got back to the offic*; group. Met DICK NORTON at the football game and learned that he is still enjoying his work with Allied Chemical Co., in Nctv York. BILL FEURY keeps busy at Westinghousc when he's not enjoying football week­ends with the rest oE us. CHARLIE BURNS is working in Somer\'iIle, N. J., although I haven't heard with whom. 1 imagine that this New Jersey thing would look pretty good to WALT KAV­

62 Notre Dame Alumnus, MaTch-April, 1956 
JVNAUGH who is stationed with the Air Force in Missouri. Walt's one ambition has always been to visit the "Show Me" state. 
On another one of our weekends in ^cw York, wc got together with JACK HOBLITZELL and made the rounds of the night spots. When I askt^d Jack to write some class news on a stray napkin, he started by noting that he was working for (and I quote him verbatim) Chc\ToIet—!!!!! Maybe he's partial. Jack also reported that DICK O'DON­NELL, DICK GLENNON, and BILL STOUTEN­BURGH were stationed at Lackland Air Force Base. .\lso found on the napkin was the news that DICK CONNELLY was recently married but Jack wasn't sure who the lucky gal was. I hear that the Army finally got their hooks into BILL BIRM­INGHAM and that he went quite peacefully. BILL RICHARDSON married the former Miss Mary Fitzpatrick sometime In the fall. W'e wish them both a lot of luck. AVord reaches mc that CHARLIE SULLIVAN is studying law at Fordham University. STE\'E SLINGER is tr>ing his hand in the selling game with the Triaco Company. I've heard rumors that he's sold more triacos (whatever they are) than anyone so far, and the year lias just begun. .\lso seen in Philadelphia were DICK RE/VMER and ED TOOMEY who are both studying medicine at Georgetown. HAL CRAY rushed by and stopped long enough to mention something about Quantico. I can guess what he's doing there. What a vacationland! 
I think I'll jump into the Christmas card depart­ment and report what some of the class has been dolni; over the holidavs. Heard from HAL WIL­LENBORG aboard the U.S.S. Alstcde (AF-48), FPO N. Y., N. Y. and he reports that all Is going well on the seas numbered seven. A \vorld traveler if there ever was one. TED LAUGHLIN sends a card that all is going well down Florida way and that the orange crop is as good as ever. I forgot to mention before that Kev O'Donnell at George­town would like to Iiear from BILL CRIMMINS or anyone ivho knows Bill's address. Kev also says that STEVE CONAVAY Is at Georgetown working toward that "M.D." WALT FLAHERTY writes that he is attending Seton Hall Law Scliool and that he ran Into DICK WILLIAMS in New York. Dick is attending Columbia Law School. Walt also said that he spent some time deer hunting with FR.\NK CRIBBS in Penns>lvania. ROY BEL­KNAP writes from the deep regions of Georgia where he is attending the Na\y Supply Corps School at Athens. Roy completed the course at OCS in Newport and then went into the Supply Corps. He also Informed mc that as ol Christmas Eve, he Is engaged to Miss Maureen Sulli\-an. PAUL FULLMER writes quite regularly and this time he reports that NErVL HALLORAN has set a June date for his wedding. It's Paul's guess that FRANK LOLLI, JIM GRIFFIN, and MIKE JACKMAN will follow very shortly. Before long, we single men won't have a chance. My North­western Law School reporter, BOB GOSDICK, reports that he and JOHN HARTIG/VN arc room­ing together and are finding the -work quite de­manding. My guess Is tliat the work is demanding a few restful nights at the Tip Top Tap. DICK BURKE dropped me a card but didn't mention anything about his law scliooI activities which prob­ably keep him running. FRANK CUNNINGHAM writes from tlic Naxy Exchange in Bayonne, N. J., that the place has been a madhouse during the last few weeks. AVhcn I saw him in New York, he had decided never to take a markdown on any merchan­dise at his Exchange. AVondcr if he's had any luck? 
JOHN WEITHERS sends word from the Navy base at Key West, Florida, that there are no women a\'allablc but a lot of good clean sports. And for this he wants me to visit him? GUY PIERCE and his wife Pat send their regards from Red Bank, ­
N. J., where, as I mentioned before, he was sent as Exchange Ofiicer after completing the course in New York. Got a card from EMMET ROOT Avho Is now stationed at Scott Air Force Base, 111. Em­met says that he couldn't produce the c>*e power to fly the jets so he's doing personnel work. He also requests the addresses of JIM HESBURGH and BILL RICHARDSON and since I don't have them, I'll pass this along to the parties concerned. (Ed. Note: Jim's address Is: Apt. A-6, Little Bay Apts., 1001 Little Bay Ave., Norfolk 3, Va. Alumni office has Bill at: 173 Livingston Ave., New Bruns­wick. N. J.) 
Ttiat just about does it in the Christmas card department but I received letters from a few other people who brought me up to date on many of the recent happenings. JOE STEIN writes that he's working at Bell Aircraft Corp., and doing a little advertising work for them. From the sound of his letter, he seems to enjoy the work and he says that he plans to attend night scliool sometime in the near future. Joe also sends word that TIM NOR­
LT. COL. FRANCIS L. SAMPSON, '37] 
Wings for a devoted priest may seem a fitting and due reward, but a gold pair for a chaplain still assigned to this mortal coil is a unique honor held only by Lt. Col. Francis L. Sampson, '37 the Army's famed "Paratrooper Padre.' 
The gilt goes with membership i/?' the Centur)' Club of the Airborne Asso­ciation, a distinction the "Jumpin: Chaplain" earned by completing over 100 parachute jumps. Father Frank received his wings this Spring while stationed at Fort Bragg, N. C. 
Fortunately Father Sampson's 200 properly placed pounds provide a che.f%] broad enough to support not only the gold wings but ribbons representing the Distinguished Sei-vice Cross, the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the Croix de Guerre and the presidential unit cita­tion with oak leaf cluster. 
Since entering the Army in 1942, Father had been in combat in Europj^ and Korea. He parachuted into Nor~ mandy on D-Day, into Holland on an infiltration mission and into Belgium with reinforcements during the Battle of the Bulged Wounded and captured after the first jump, he was rescued, later recaptured and finally escaped. He was captured a thirti time itl Bastogne and imprisoned for five months until liberated by the Russians shortly before V-E Day. Discharged in 1948, he returned to parish work for nine months, only to reenter the serv­ice. His book Paratrooper Padre tells of his e.\periences. 

OKLAHOMA CITY—Sho^vn above is part of the large group of alumni and their families taking part in the annual Conmmnion Breakfast at the Oklahoma City Country Club S in December. 
TON' was married to the former Miss Ann Wain-right on December 2Ist. The ceremony took place ia the log chapel on the campus. ED SCHICKLER i%ritcs from the U.S.S. Ilavcrfield (DER-393), FPO, San Francisco, Calif., that all is well with the Xav>- at sea. Ed telb me that shortly before Christmas he became engaged to Miss Marilyn BUckwcdc, R.X., from Rochester, N. Y, He says that they plan a fall wedding. Congratulations, Ed! ^f e goes on to say that he spent the summer in San oiego attending various Na\y schools and that he ran into DON BURKHART who is now in the Western Pacific area. Along with Don. Ed saw JIM RICKLING, JACK PINTER, DON PETERS, JOHN KURTZ, AL PAJAK, CHET SCHULER, and DICK Ci\LL^\HAX. From all reports they seem to be enjoying their stay with the Navy on the brisk and balmy west coast. JOHN 0'ME^\RA is out there also aboard the U.S.S. Lowe (DER 325), FPO, San Francisco, Calif, BILL KREPS left a short time ago for San Diego aboard his brand new minesweeper, the U.S.S. Leader (MSO ^0) , FPO, San Francisco, Calif. BILL ARNOLD 
Vfmding his way around the California coast aboard th- U.S.S. diaries E. Brannon (DE 446). FPO, San Francisco, Calif. As a last word, Ed reports that he met DAN McCULLOUGH in Canada during the summer. 
Back to the Christmas card department for a moment, I neglected to mention that I received a card from JIM CAHILL. Jim says he was able to get together with a few of the *55 tribe in Boston after reading in (he last class column that they were stationed there. I'm glad that the informa­tion that I had received was able to be put to use. 
^iliopc that the rest of you will send me the names Tmd the places of any future reunions that you*re able to weld together. 
BOB McGR/\TH wrote me a letter which is al­most a column in itself so I better set the type­writer keys in motion and let you in on what he had to say. Bsb says that he attended summer school for a sliort time and then went to work for IBM in Grand Rapids as a sales representative. As the militar>- docs with us all, the Air Force called Bob November 30 and ordered him to Wright-Pat­terson Field in Dayton, Ohio. Boh reports the flowing lines of news. JOHN LOCHTEFELD is nntinuing his art work in Sarasota, Florida. DICK SHEPPERD is at Lackland Air Force Base in Texas. Also in the Lackland department we find NORM HIPSKIND, TOM MARKO. WALT L^VNGFORD, and JOE O'BRIEN. ED BORUS, JIM SCHERER, AL GERMAINE, and CHARLIE CrVDWELL are studying law at Michigan. ED STENCER and JI.M STEVENS are listed on the employment rcg­isfrs in the thriving city of Detroit. I don't have the word on Ed but Jim is working for the Gar-lock Packing Co. Floating bond issues in Chicago we find RICK HICKS who is working for a finance 
company there. Rick announced his engagement to a lovely from Michigan State. MIKE COSTELLO was seen travelling from Florida to Las Vegas. It appears that lic*s following the sun. Bob goes on to note that he spent an evening with DON DIXON in Detroit and that Don will soon be wearing olive drab. GENE SCH^^T dropped Bob a line to report that all goes well with the X*a%-y ifi San Diego. With Gene are CHARLIE MINGES and 
PAUL FAZZOXE. JOE McGLYNN is studying law at St. Louis University. CHUCK POLLNOW left for the Army November 21st after working for General Motors Poweraiiia in Chicago. BOB BIER­ALVNN is also attending St. Louis University for graduate work. TOM SUTHERLAND is with the Air Force in Germany. Last but not least. Bob signs off by saying that JOE McGRAW is working for Kcwanee Oil Co. in Tulsa and attending night school to complete a law degree. 
THOMAS E. M.AGILL is now employed by Western Electric Inc. in its large Allentown, Pa., branch. 
ROBERT W. GREENE, JR., was stricken with polio nearly 18 months ago and is waging a valiant fight to overcome his afHiction. He is now in the wheel-chair stage. Letters, cards and prayers would be just right for Bob. His address is 1432 West Union Blvd., Bethlehem, Pa. 
D.WID E. NOLAN is employed by the Stuy­vcsant Insurance Company, 1105 Hamilton Street, .-Mlcntown, Pa. 
JOHN A. DAM.M and J.VMES EHRET have both graduated from OCS at the U. S. X^aval School at Nevvport, R. I. 
EDWARD F, DEVLIN who received a Ph.D. from X'otre Dame, has recently joined the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company's research division in /Vkron. 
LT. NOEL KINDT is attending air officers Elec­tronics Indoctrination at Kcesler AFB in Mississippi. Also there with Noel arc 2nd Lts. CHi\RLES REG.VN, JIM MURPHY and ROBERT .MUTH. Noel became engaged to Miss Patricia Gundeck recently. 
FREDERICK G. D^VXXER is a junior engineer in the special electronics system engineering depart­ment of Spcrr>* Engineering Company. 
JA.MES E, VACHRIS has been employed as a junior engineer in the Artitude Instrument Depart­ment of the Spcrrv Company. 
The new address of EXS. GEORGE H. SHEL­TOX is U.S.S. Taconic (AGC-17), Fleet Post Office, New York, N. Y. 
BROTHER CH.\RLES VARNAK, C.S.C., who received a master's degree from X'otre Dame in 1955, is now teacliing at Gilmour Academy, Gates Mills, Ohio. He is also assistant faculty athletic manager at the school. 
f\ recent note from GEORGE VOSXIK indi­cates that he, JI.M GRIFFIX and JACK MURRAY are enrolled in the Marine Corps basic course. 
JOHX R. POLITZER has been elected an as­sistant member In the Detroit chapter of the Amer­ican Institute of Architects. 
WILLL\.M TUXELL has been awarded the Re­gents Scholarship in Medicine at Cornell University 
~ Medical College. Tlie value of the scholarship is §3,000. \Villiam's address Is Box 96, Cornell Uni­versity' Medical College, 1300 York .Avenue, Xcw York 21, X. Y. 
After searching through the rubble on my desk, I don't find anything that I've overlooked so I'll close this thing until nest time. I'd like to be able to say something about cver>'one In the class but I can't do it wltliout your help. I'll just request that each of you send a postcard with a few bits of Information and maybe between all of us, we can find out what the whole class of '55 lias been doing to pass the time. Good luck to you all and you'll be hearing from me again soon. 
Three Notre Dame alumni, ND cage coach Johnny Jordan, Loyola basketball coach George Ireland and DePaul's coach Ray Aleyer all received citations in recognition of their contri* bution to the development of citizenship, and human understanding through athletics from the Greater Chicago B'nai B>tth Council. L. to R.: William X. Kaplan, Executive Director of the Council; Jordan; Ireland; Meyer; Harry Stein, Brandcis coach; and Dr. Elmer Imbcr. 
OHice ojf the Pnelidetd 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Midland, Texas 

Fellow .-\lumni: March 10, 1956 
Amid the deathly hush caused by semester exams, the Alumni Board held its January' meeting at the Morris Inn. While missing the excitement of a football or reunion weekend, such a time has its compensations. Two uninterrupted days of meetings where University oflicials have more time to visit with us to outline current developments and future plans is one benefit. 
\Ve arc indebted to Father Hesburgh for a ver)' complete and candid discussion on numerous mattci-s affecting the University, its faculty, students and alumni. \Vhile it is the present decision not to increase enrollment, Feather Hesburgh said that two additional residence halls and a new dining hall are necessary to properly house and feed the current study body of approximately five thousand. Plans are already underway to add these much needed facilities. Those of you who in the past resided in halls near the infirmar\- will be glad to hear that the new dining hall will be erected in that area. 
Recognizing the great responsibility of always endeavoring to increase the status of Notre Dame in the educational world, Father Hesburgh outlined further progress made on the Distinguished Professors program, further development of faculty and current or contemplated changes in the curricula of the various colleges. 
Of the numerous matters discussed by the Board, one of the most important is the broad field of job counseling and placement. Aside from the ver\- considerable work done on the campus for undergraduates, this office is endeavoring to assist all alunmi in every way possible. To implement this program in an endeavor to make opportunities available to anyone interested, each of you already has received a card urging registration with the Placement Office. This will be followed by a job status questionnaire to determine, (a) alumni employers, (b) alumni in fields of employment who could be contacted for specific job opportunities. Further, you will note in the pages of this magazine an article on job opportunities open to any alunmus. We recognize the inherent difficulties of such a country-wide program; however, \vc feel that we would be remiss unless a real endeavor is made to acquaint each of you with the benefits to be derived from full usage of this department. 
The 1955 Foundation report, reflecting an alumni participation of 52.5% and total contributions in excess of one-half million dollars, is indeed impressive. Under Father Cavanaugh's inspired leadership this program has continued to grow as have generous gifts from non-alumni. .-Vs you are all aware, private schools received a very generous gift from the Ford Foundation, one of the most practical votes of confidence in their histor)-. It is with pride that we note that Notre Dame ranked 10th in the size of gifts on the Ford Foundation list of grants. 
These endowments provide a stable and protective cushion in times of economic stress and, in addition, help to insure succeeding generations of Notre Dame students of that "extra" which turns the ordinary into the excellent. 
We of the Board are your elected representatives and it is our sincere desire to accurately reflect your thinking and be of assistance to the Association as well as to the University. To these ends we pledge ourselves. 
In closing, I should like to salute the fine work of the past President, Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, and the other retiring Members of the Board, Daniel Culhane, John Saunders, and the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph Toomey. All have given unselfishly of their time working toward the interest and advancement of the University of Notre Dame. 
Sincerely, 
JosEi'H I. O'NEILL, JR., President 
PRINTED AT AVE MAHIA PRES! 







