The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
J" v"^ j""-*" 
Volume 42, No. 1 m February-March, 1964 
M:Ti!w«;i-;^.^; 


©Maiif3( 

.. extending the tradition of great teaching 
Vol. 42 No: 1 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., '41, CotumnisI 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 
Honorary President OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 President JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49_Fu7ii Vice-President WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37. 
Club Vice-President 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 

Class Vice-President 
JAUES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 . 
Executive Secretary 



Directorsto 1964 
JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peafaody & Co. 123 Broad SL , PhUaddphia, PennsyK-ania 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY, '50 2324 Universit>' .•\venuc St. Paul, Minnesota 55114 
WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 100 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F3.I., P. O. Box 23 New Castle, Pennsylvania 
Directorsto 1965 
ALBERT D . CASTELLI.VI, '24 506 First National Bank Bldg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 1510 Ogden La Grange, Illinois 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Road Grosse Pointe, Michigan 
TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30 12 Windermere Avenue Arlington 74, Massachusetts 

Directorsto 1966 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., '44 444 Golf Road Deal Park, New Jersey 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 141 Sorin Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 2415 Pilgrimage Trail LOS Angeles 28, California 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 Dallas Athletic Club Building Dallas 1, Texas 


Gbairmen of the 1963 Gommitfees 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR 

„ Academic Affairs PHILIP J. FACCENDA Admissions JOHN P. DEMPSEY.. 
.^lumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts PHILIP J. FACCENDA -Athletics ALBERT D . CASTELLINI Budget & Finance PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY. Class Activities WiLUAM H. FALLON Club Activities OLIVER H . HUNTER Executive PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY­
Inter-Alumni Affairs 

WILLIAM H . FALLON AND JOHN P DEMPSEY. Nominations PETER J. KERNAN, JR . 
Placement & Counseling PETER J. KERNAN, JR Public Relations ALBERT D . CASTELLINI 
Religion & Citizenship PETER J. KERNAN, JR Student Affairs 
Tfaii migiTine il published bi-monthly by dM Uiuvcrety of Notre Daxne, Notre Dtome, Ind. Entered ms fecond dam mat­ter Oct. 1. 1939, at the Fwt Office, Notre Dane, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
February-March, 196^ 
JOHN F. lAUGHLIN, '41, Managing Ediloi





NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
BRUCE HARLAN. '49, P/iologropti^ 
CONTENTS: 
3 Announcing Challenge II: "Extending the Tradition of Great Teaching" 5 Editorial: "Not Another!" James E. Armstrong '25 6 Notre Dameland in Texas: Volunteer Teachers Service. Rev. Harry Baker, C.S.C, '54 7 Family Picnic at Cedar Point: July Event to Honor Rockne 8 Our Man in Ghana. Ambassador William P. Mohoney Jr. '38 10 Are You Afraid of Your Children? Judge William J. Obermiller '45 12 Man and the Moment: More About the Grotto. Rev. Thomas J. O'Donneli, C.S.C, '41 13 "Nev/ Look" of the Alumni Board: Part Two 14 Notre Dame Books 15 The Student Slant: "Thunder" Brings a Shov/er. Warren C. Stephens '64 d 16 Universal ND Night '64/2nd International Convention 17 Sports. Charlie Callahan '38 18 Clubs: Directory and UND Communion Sunday 24 Classes: Statistics Spotlight Alumni 


COVER: 
The Triangle symbol of Challenge II is abstracted from the Golden Dome and symbolizes the trinity of mind, body and spirit involved in great teaching. 
The Athletic and Convocation Center is pictured on the cover and at right in preliminary architect's sketches. The office area in the center has been lowered in subsequent blueprints. See the story at right for a description. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 




©KLKiKKii 

extending the tradition of great teaching 
Dear Alumnus: 

What Notre Dame may become in the years that lie ahead depends largely on the vision and the resources at our command today. I can see a Notre Dame enjoying more than ever before the respect and regard of the academic community as one of America's leading institutions of higher learning. I can also see a Notre Dame whose scholarly ap' plication of theology and philosophy to twentieth century living makes it one of the truly great Catholic universities 
0n all the world. To wield such leadership tomorrow^ there is much we must do today. First of all, we must further strengthen our faculty, retaining and attracting men who live to teach, whose names are associated with achievement and distinc­tion in their fields. Secondly, we must develop new strength in the humanities and social sciences which receive scant support compared to science and technology. To this end, Notre Dame plans to establish a department of experimental psychology, create new programs in anthropology, de­mography, geography and religious sociology, and launch Latin American and African area programs. It is precisely in these areas that a Catholic university like Notre Dame W-an mediate with great influence and effectiveness. To benefit from great teaching, to provide future leader­
ship  for  a  complex  and  sophisticated  world,  students  with  
considerable  intellectual  capacity  and  moral  stamina  must  
. be  attracted  to  Notre  Dame.  Every  great  university  seeks  

such young men. For those who need financial assistance, there must be resources for grants-in-aid, loans and campus employment. Because students must live on our campus to share completely in the life that is Notre Dame, we must build two additional undergraduate residence halls. And to help develop in them the vigor and spirit of competition ^phich traditionally marks the Notre Dame man, we are planning to erect an Athletic and Convocation Center . which, like the old Fieldhouse it replaces, will serve the 
University for decades. 

These are some of the things Notre Dame must do now 
and in the immediate future. However great our success 
in the past, we dare not stand still. This University has a 
. rendezvous with destiny, and it is our privilege — yours and mine — to help speed that day. Only when the University achieves that destiny will it be truly worthy of its name, Notre Dame, who has been its heavenly patron and pro­tector for one hundred and twenty-two years. 
W Yours in Notre Dame, Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President 
T N JANUARY the University announced a comprehensive 
$20jOOO,000 development plan focused on people and programs but also providing for the construction of three major buildings — including a long-awaited athletic fa­cility. 
Father Hesburgh announced that the new, national fund­raising effort, to be known as Challenge II, will have as its theme, "Extending the Tradition of Great Teaching." He said 60% of the funds will be used to initiate new pro­grams of study and research, further strengthen the facul­ty and provide financial assistance for students with the balance allocated to physical expansion. 
He listed these major objectives of the t\vo-and-a-haIf year Challenge II Program, which is a segment of a ten-year, $66 million development plan launched in 1958: 
$5,000,000—Construction of an Athletic and Convoca­tion Center with a seating capacity of 10,500 for athletic, academic and civic events; 
$6p00,000—Faculty development and new academic programs with emphasis on the social sciences and the humanities; 
§5,500,000—Expansion of student-aid programs includ­ing scholarships, fellowships, loans and ap­portunities for campus employment; 
.$3,000,000—Erection of t%vo residence halls to provide housing for virtually all Notre Dame un­dergraduates. 
Notre Dame's president pointed out that the Fotd Foun­dation has already pledged $6 million, or 30% of the $20 million overall goal, provided the University double that amount in cash gifts and grants from its alumni, friends and other nongovernmental sources by June 30, 1966. In a three-year development program which ended in mid­1963, Notre Dame received $18,603,157 in financial sup­port in addition to an earlier $6 million Ford Foundation matching grant. 
Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C., the University's vice-presi­dent for public relations and development, said that the Challenge II program is geared to extend Notre Dame's 

\\\\\\l«» • ^YWL^ « <• M iB 5SJ1 'lA v^. <!!! 5a as 'H 'a! 'ff ^a -in • 
^miynMiiiififfiffifgwffln 

^^fsss^R^aatS^ea 1 !s54!ae=£tiiisi^s •..•w-« • —i'2i _ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 



mMME 
tradition of great teaching "to new generations and into new fields." He said the funds it generates will enable Notre Dame to continue "to develop young men in mind, body and spirit and, at the same time, through its research make ef­fective contributions to the solution of vexing human prob­lems." 
In a move to strengthen its educational programs and research in the social sciences and hiunanitieSj Notre Dame plans to establish a department of experimental psychology, it was announced. With funds emanating from Challenge II, the University will also create new programs in such people-oriented fields as anthropology, demography, geo­graphy and reli^ous sociology. Plaiming is also under way for area study programs, first for Latin America and later Africa. 
Noting that a university is only as strong as its faculty. Father Walsh said "a very substantial portion" of Challenge II funds is earmarked for faculty development With Notre Dame's faculty budget increasing about a million dollars a year, he said "sustained financial support is vital if the University is to retain and attract men of achievement who will be devoted — in scholarship and research, in class­room and laboratory, in personal attention to individual students — to extending Notre Dame's tradition of great teaching." 
Increased student aid resources are an urgent need, too, the Notre Dame vice-president said, in this day of rising educational costs and higher tuition. Notre Dame is seek­ing additional funds to create undergraduate scholarships or grants-in-aid and graduate fellowships. Funtls are needed, too, he e.xplained, to create and expand University-operated dow-interest loan funds for qualified students requiring fi­nancial assistance. Often, he explained, it is a combination of a scholarship or felloVvship, a loan and campus employ­ment which enables a young man to enroll and remain at Notre Dame. 
The Athletic and Convocation Center, replacing Field-house, will be erected east of Notre Dame Stadium, Father Walsh said. The 400,000-square-foot facility-will ha%'e twin arenas, one for basketball and assemblies requiring up tl^ 10,500 seats, the other for fieldhouse activities and exhibi­tions. He described the new building as a center for inter­collegiate sports — basketball, track, baseball (indoor prac­tice), fencing, wTcstiing, boxing, et cetera—and a hub for intramural athletic activities. It will provide facilities for indoor student athletics, including a skating rink, and will be the headquarters for the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment. The Center will be used for major University con­vocations as well as for conventions of academic and re­ligious organizations and civic events. 
The two residence halls for undergraduates will be erected on the new east mall'north of the Notre DamjP Memorial Library, it was announced. ' These ' buildings, coupled with two graduate residence halls soon to be built, will swell to twenty-one the niimber of student dormitories on the Notre Dame campus. Construction of these two buildings. Father Walsh said, will make it possible for most of the 800 undergraduates currently forced to live ofF­campus to share fully in the intellectual, spiritual and so­cial life of the campus. 
ALUMNI-FOUNDATION-Public Relations staff, as it gathered for a higher education caafereiice nnder Rev. John £. Walsh, CSC, poblic relations vice-president, on the eve of Challenge II, included: (seated, Lr.) James Moipihy '47, James Armstrong '25 Rev. Thomas O'Donnell CSC '41, Fr. Walsh '45, James Frick '51, J. Arthur Haley '26, Alfred Perrine '41; (standing, L-r.) John Janowski '51, James Cooney '59, Edivaid Rccker '48, Frank Kelly '50, Donald Ross '53, John LangUin '48, James Gibbons '54, Damis Troester '57, Mchard Ruwe '55, and Thomas Kcman '55. The conference was first of a series on college operations. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
Sditorial Commtit 
from your Alumni Secretary 
*NOT ANOTHER/' 
I. Father ,Edward Sorin did not found the University of IS'otre Dame to wither and die. The prodigious efforts of his own fifty years of guidance indicate the contraiy—a passion for progress. 
II. A government educational agency representative is reported recent­

•!y to have predicted that all private higher education will disappear in the next twentj'-five years. 
Notre Dame will not be one of those institutions. (And we seriously ques­tion the whole projection, as either myth or mistake.) 
\Vhy then the aggressive note in 
Items I and II? It goes back to the title. By the time you read this, you will 

^%now that the Ford Foundation has made another magnificent matching grant, on the same one-for-two basis that triggered the successful Challenge I campaign. 
And you will know that, in order to achieve this second great benefaction, the University, through the Notre Dame Foundation, is embarked on its Challenge II program. 

^ And in the complex of fund raising that we are all heir to, the inevitable ciy in the night has to be "Not an­other!" 
The simple, direct and dismaying answer is "Yes, another!" 
But you need to think furtlier than that, with its somewhat opposing and negative implications. 
The first fundamental truth of our 

^ifetime is that private higher educa­tion is engaged in a permanent, in­tensive, compedtive, and large-scale supplementary fund-raising program if it is to survive; certainly if it is to grow and meet" its increasing obligations and opportunities. 
; There are two significant words in 1 the above statements—the Challenge I ^ campaign, and the Challenge II pro­
• gram. This is more than a semantic exercise. In order to insure the first success, we did use the intensive and extensive methods of a capital cam­paign. 
In Challenge II, we neither under­estimate our goal, nor enjoy any overconfidence as a result of the $18,000,000 accomplish ment. The difference in approach, however, is real, and for your good. 
Alumni response to Challenge I— 80% participation and more than $6,000,000 —was heroic. University appreciation is deep and sincere. Con­sequently, there is none of the atmos­phere in Challenge II of "hit them hard and often until tliey kick in." 
Rather, the University believes that 
two things will result in continuing 
alumni support and enthusiasm, with 
a minimum of pressure and detail. 
Fiist is the unusual but obvious op­
portunitj' to accelerate Notre Dame's 
progress by a second $6,000,000 in un­
restricted money from the Ford 
Foundation. 
Second is the fact that the alumni 
are being asked primarily to contribute 
to the long-awaited and sorely needed 
athletic facility, the Athletic and Con­
vocation Center. 
This is more than a colorful and 
functional complex which will give all 
sports on the campus a tremendous 
physical asset. It is a foreward-Iooking 
recommitment of the University to the 
education of the whole man, the in­
tegration of the sound body with the 

sound mind. 
The new complex shatters the myth of the dominance of the egghead, witli­out affecting in any way the continued advancement of academic excellence. It provides the campus—and the St. Joseph Valley area generally—a long-needed sports and convention facilit)'. It brings to the campus the first and only area under a roof where the entire student body and facult)' can be as­sembled in any type of convocation. And it is the only answer—other than 
prayer—to the security of the Com­mencement exercises. 
So—"yes, it's another." But don't push the panic button. Notre Dame is going into tliis second, almost miracu­lous phase of its progress with the sub­lime faith that Father Sorin had when he embarked on the rebuilding of the Main Building; with the sense of desti­ny that has carried the University through two great wars, and through the internal problems of diverse nature that preceded and followed them. 
^Ve believe you share this faith. \Ve believe you will share the program it dictates. And at the end of another three years we are confident you will again share with Notre Dame the same inspiring success. 
Remember—the fund-raising effort is not the cause. It is only the necessary means to the success of the greater cause, Notre Dame. 
KELLY JOINS FOUNDATION 
Frank G. Kelly '50 of St. Joseph, Mich., has been named an assistant di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation. He will administer a new Deferred Giv­ing Program of the Foundation, coordi­nating volunteer and staff activity on estate planning, wills, bequests, etc. 
A native of Bridgeport, Conn., Frank was grad­uated in economics after service in World War 11. He was employed by the Union Central Life Insurance Co. in South Bend and the Gibson An Co., Cincinnati, O. jXs services manager of Theisen-Clemens Co., St. Joseph, he di­rected marketing, advertising, promo­tion and merchandising activities of the petroleum firm for more than 10 years. Most recently he has been station man­ager of WHFB-.'VM-FM, St. Joseph. 
Frank has been active in \-arious civic activities in the St. Joseph area. He and his wife Donna have three children: Patty, 11; Kevin, 7; and Mary, 6. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 S 
<mK 

CLASS OF '61 was well represented in Volunteer Teachers Ser\icc with (l.-r.) Mike Terry, Tracy Osborne, Jim McDonald and Dan Griffith. Jim and Dan were bound for the seminary. Tracy planned to continue his medical studies, and Mike went on the road for another year with %'TS, whose highly mobile character is suggested by the light plane in the background. 



NOTREDAMELAND IN TEXAS. 
By Rev. Harry P. Baker, C.S.C, '54 
1
MERELY WA.NT to paint a picture — a picture of a realistic thrust into Latin .America that began with a need in the slates. A Notre Dame man conceived the idea: another two collaborated to bring it into being. .And today the picture includes enough Notre Dame men and St. ifarj-'s girls to make one think he's at an .Alumni meeting. Jim MacDonald, Dan Griffith, Tracy Osborne, Mike Teny (all of '61), Rosemar>' Hoefer, Rosemar>- Hughes (both SMC '61) and Caroline Quick ('60) are all reasons why the locale of a new mis­sionar>- group called XTS might aptly be called "NotreDameLand, Texas." 
What have they been doing here? They were all part of a grass roots apostolic move­ment which is one of the more promising lay apostolic groups in the Church, the Volunteer Teachers Service. It is the finest example of Catholic Action, a generous, buoyant, unaffectedly holy group which 
FR. UNDERWOOD CSC '52, (clockwise) John Benson, Dorothy Thomas and Jo Anne Brclin are the present directors of XTS. 


Irish Shine In Mission Teaching Apostolate 
takes the talents and enthusiasm of college graduates and presses them into the service of Christ. 
It all began with a need, and XTS was bom and grew with the generosity of re­sponse to the need. A school here in the heart of Te.\-as — Killecn by name (after a Catholic Irishman who worked on the Santa Fe Railroad) — needed to be staffed, and there was no one to staff it. The pastor and his assistant began with a shoestring and a few dedicated lay people. Through several turbulent years the few people have merged into a well-knit, confident group that has not only taken care of Killeen's needs but has branched out as well into the needy parishes of Dallas, .Austin, South Carolina — even to Chile and .Alaska! When the Notre Dame-St. Mary's contingent joined \T S they helped to take Texas by storm. Last year they moved into more needy areas — Devine, Texas (just south of San Antonio), Irving (near Dallas), .Alamo and Laredo, closer to the Mexican border. -All in all XTS hopes to staff some seven to ten schools in the heart of Texas area. 


Papal VolunTeerS: 
In 1963, for \TS , it was consolidation in Texas and a firm step into Latin America. Last May the Volunteer Teachers group began an intensive, long-planned move into Panama. At the request of Bishop McGrath ('45) the youthful organization sent several members to work in and around Panama City, people who have had "on-the-job training" in Texas and have proven them­selves as missionaries. With the help of this really great authority on Latin America — who brought to the Notre Dame campus the enthusiasm and interest in Latin America he had already developed in himself — \T S hopes to move into Argentina (Buenos -Aires) and Chile (Santiago de Chile) where already they have been warmly encouraged tc come — the Cardinal .Archbishop of Buenos Aires beckoning, and in Santiago at 
least three specific offers by the Precious 
Blood Fathers. 

By sending qualified, trained teachers, trained in teams to work as teams, in ner\e centers of student life, \T S hopes to be a bit of the leaven that may gradually trans­form Latin America. It hopes to disprov^ a statement of one of the Chilean Bishops to a \T S member working in Chile: "The question is not 'how are we going to over­come communism?' — the question is 'how­are we going to live under communism with­in the next several years?'!" Of course, it is in connection wt h FAVL.A that VTS has initiated its South American program. 

Here We Grow Again: 
With the solid, well-planned growth of \TS , Fr. Fred Under^vood ('52) and the lay director of the group, John Benson^ decided that a plane was next on the list of needs. The plane — a used four-place Piper Cub — was bought on faith and a few hundred down. It helps shrink Texas and Panama down to traveling size. Fr. Under­wood himself is a seasoned pilot (1200 hours of fl)'ing time in the Pacific during Worid War II as a B-29 pilot) and does most of the flying himself. One other mem­ber of the group has a pilot's license. 

Structure of VTS _ 
The program of the Volunteer TeacherJP Service is "formation through action." .At times one becomes leer\- of this slogan, but here is has worked. Certainly the teachers are intent upon their own holiness, but the consciousness of what this means grows with their involvement in the work at hand. The teachers become conscious that they are the Church, the "hands of Christ," and that if certain needs are to be filled then they have to fill them. But in their attempt to bring others to Christ something is quite obviously lacking if they themselves have 
Notre Dnme Alumnus, Febntary^March, 1964 
( 
not met Him. They can hardly lead others to Christ in the apostolate of Catholic edu-Cbation if they have not given themselves to Him. 
To help them the VTS'ers have a well-organized spiritual life which consists of daily Mass, spiritual reading, mental prayer, rosar>' and visits to the Blessed Sacrament. They have weekly spiritual conferences, and each member is expected to choose a spirit­ual adviser and see him at least once a month. For the most part the above is left to each one's sincerity and spirit of dedi­
^cation. But great help is given by the mere 
w^act that \'TS is a community. In fact this is what helps to explain the success of \T S in five short years of existence: the sense of teamwork and group solidarity, the leaning heavily on the example and encouragement of companions. There is individuality and spontaneity, to be sure, but for the most part VTS moves 
BISHOP McGRATH confers with lay di­rector John Benson (left) and t^vo leaders in Catholic .Action at the U. of Panama. 
as a team and accepts the challenges and difficulties as a family. Here at Killeen the "family" has consisted of two married couples, four single girls, and six single men. They all have living quarters near or on the parish grounds. 
The spontaneity and family spirit manifest themselves in different social activities: to Dallas for the state fair, .Austin for the rodeo, cookouts, horseback riding, Mexico at Thanksgiving time. But all of these activities are in the larger context of ser\'icc for 
PtChrist — first here in Texas, then in con­nection with P.WL.A a channeling of our finest members into Latin .America. 
.A late development in VTS is a cate­chetical program initiated in .Austin last summer. This program used the facilities of the two universities in .Austin as well as the "on-the-job training" afforded by actual catechetical teaching in Mexican parishes. .AH of this was structured around a solid catechetical-theological-apostolic for­mation. People trained in this summer pro­gram will be placed in already defined areas, 
pfcatcchetical work in Panama, or will work in .Austin prior to their eventual placement in Latin .America. The author helped or­ganize this pilot program. 
I have simply tried to paint a picture. -A picture of a movement that is succeeding because of a need . . . and because of a response to that need triggered by God's grace and fed by generous hard work. Notre Dame and St. Marj-'s students have helped this youthful apostolic movement to reach its present level of success. It is hoped that they are not the last ones to help. 


ND FAMILY PICNIC TO HONOR 'ROCK' WEEK OF JULY 5 AT CEDAR POINT, O. 
N
OTRE DAME has two great traditions — the athletic tradition and the Notre Dame family. These two cherished sources of Notre Dame spirit have been linked in the exciting proposal of a Notre Dame family picnic at the famed Cedar Point resort on Lake Erie where one of the greatest of the athletic traditions — the Dorais-to-Rockne forward pass — was developed. 
The picnic — several days if you wish, or one great big glorious day for those whose 
time is more limited — is booked for July 5, 6 and 7, 1964. 
The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland is acting as host club, with Don Miller and John Chapla acting as co-chairmen of the event, the First .Annual Notre Dame Fantily-Rockne Picnic. Basic plan is low cost, nonprofit, with Cedar Point cooperative. 
Cedar Point is a historical center of family fun, just north of Sandusky, accessible in one to several hours by turnpike and high\vays for most of the Notre Dame population in Ohio, Western Pennsylvania, Eastern Indiana, Southeastern Michigan, and even the Ghicagoland area. 
But Cedar Point is much more than historical. Taking its cue from the successes of the great modem amusement parks in the East and Far West, Cedar Point is already out­standing in the most modem amusement I'acilities for children and adults, in the colorful tradition of Disneyland. 
Its tremendous plus value lies in its literal miles of magnificent beach, its unlimited picnic facilities, its marina for boats of all kinds, its hotel and meal facilities within the confines of the Point. 
The plan for the First .Annua! Picnic is to restore the old tradition, by erecting a new plaque commemorating Knute Rockne. (.A previous one at the Point was removed before the present management began the rejuvenation of the Point.) Many famous heroes of the Notre Dame athletic tradition will be on hand. Already probable highlighters of the event are the Four Horsemen, Hunk .Anderson, Hughie Devore and Bill Schmitt — the latter a member of the Champions of the AVest in 1909, who ^vorfced at Cedar Point as a Notre Dame student-athlete, as did the entire Notre Dame Miller family. 
Rooms are available for those who wish to spend several days of family fun. (The new Cedar Point calls itself The Family Funderland.) 
But there will be one major Day, featuring special programs, to which all alumni who can load up their wives and children and drive the hour or two or three it takes to reach Cedar Point, will be invited. (Clubs can consider chartering busses.) 
The alumni family can bring its own picnic baskets, or can count on the various concessions at the Point — from hot dogs to cheFs cuisine. 
This may sound like a commercial for Cedar Point. In a sense it, of course, has to be. But I have never found a spot with so much current, attractive and accessible quality for modern activity and interest, that at the same time encompasses in its history the lore of several decades of famous athletes, with the drama and the romance that interwove them­selves with the rise of Notre Dame's athletic tradition. 
This is an event in which the rich memories of the older alumni can be teamed with the rich indoctrination of the young alumnus and his children, of whatever age. Details will follow. But plan now to be there. Talk it up in your Club. —Jim Armstrong 
UNIVERSITY VILLAGE, successor to the Vctvme of the Forties and Fifties, celebrated its 2nd anniversary last fall with the blessing of a statue of Patroness St. Ann by Fr. Hesburgh, a former Vetville chaplain (shown blessing the twin offspring of Village Manager Fran Miceli); Rev. Roman Ladewski CSC, chaplain; Rev. James Moran CSC, another former chaplain; and Rev. Jerome Wilsm CSC 
(not shown), "guardian angel" who recently landscaped the Village with 73 trees and erected a sign identifying the community for passers-by on US Highway 31. 
l^otre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 


OUR MAN IN GHANA 
AMBASSADOR MAHOXEV walks away from his chancery oflicc in the Ghanaian capital of Accra, his working day to be followed by a working evening at the embassy. 
Alumni Past President Tells About African Experiences 
TEN MAHONEYS, pictured at the embassy, are (in front, from left) Lawrence, Bill holding Jv^tin, Eileen, Alice holding: Noel; (back row, from \clt) Bill III, Marj*, Gladjs and Richard. Family-Io\'ing Ghanaians admire the size of the clan. 
By Hon. William P# Mahoney, Jr., '38 

(Rcprinti'd in Arizona Dayt and W'axi magazine) 
Cottiplelhtg o four-year term with the ivinter meeting of the Alumni Board, Past President M'ilUom Mahoney is also nearing the close of his second year as American Ambassador to Ghana. Recently Bill and his wife Alice icent to Ireland for a risit ivith Eamon De Valera and a look at the an^ cestral home in County Mayo. He also re­turned to his native Arizona to be honored by Governor Fannin, the State Supreme Court and the president of the American Bar Association. Daughter Gladys (15) now attends Marymount International School in Rome. Sons Bill III (16) and Dick (12) study at Ghana''s Achimoto College, and the other five children are at home in Accra. 
J
UST OVER 19 MONTHS AGO, after an over­night flight from New York, our family arrived in Accra, Ghana, in the brillian" glare of a tropical day. From the beginning we were taken in by the Ghanaians who still recall the news photograph of our seven children coming down the gang%vay of the plane. Our life has been so full since that day it is difficult to realize we have been in Africa over a year, 
A whirl of activity began inmiediatelv for all of us which has never let up. 
Ever>*thing about our new life represented a change from more leisurely days in Phoenix and Chino Valley — the people. countr>-. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
climate, social obligations and most of all in our family life. Perhaps the last catcgor\' was 
^h e only difficwU one for my wife, A]icc, and the children. On an average of five nights a week, we are involved in social afTairs in Accra, a fourtii of which occur in our residence. Tliey take the form of diplomatic receptions (av­eraging eight to ten a week) and informal and formal dinners — mostly the latter. It is not uncommon to attend two or three 
PRESIDENT KENNEDY traded quips at the White House before Bill's departure in the summer of 1962 for a new nation. 
receptions and a dinner in one evening. These are important affairs for a diplomat because at them one establishes and culti­vates colleagues and other contacts wlio fre­quently contribute valuable information. 
But this "socializing" blows a large hole in our family life. \Ve had to learn to live with the situation. With the help of a size­al)lc household stafT. aided by our older daughters, Gladys and Mar>-. Alice has in­stituted a routine that at least gives her peace of mind. Regardless of what is sched­uled, the children are at the dinner table at 6 p.m. .-\lthough we seldom can dine with them, they take part in our receptions and pre-dinner maneuverings at home, usual­ly helping with the entertaining and pro­viding a wonderful source of conversation. 
The reason for all this activity is that there are 45 fully accredited diplomatic mis­sions in Ghana, making it the international hub of lliis part of .Africa, Most of the world's important nations have ambassadors here, including a strong spread from the Bloc, or Communist, countries. I am on good terms with all of them, e.vcept Cuba and Conmiunist China wliom we don't rec­ognize. 
But to get back to our new life. We have a large and beautiful residence which just ac­commodates our numerous family. In many respects it resembles a hotel. There are con­stant comings and goings of diplomats, wives, visiting firemen from the United States {senators, congressmen. State Department officials), Ghanaians of cver\* walk of life and others. At first, the constant interrup­tions of privacy bothered us; now we have learned to roll with the punch and enjoy the activity. 
In a sense we lead compartmentalized lives according to a fairly tight schedule. The children arc all here in school and dwell on the peripher>' of the public func­tions. .-Mice leads an existence of her own. Besides running a rather complex household, she regularly receives and visits the wives of other ambassadors and cabinet ministers: oversees the welfare and morale of the wives of my sizeable staff; heads up the active .-\mcrican Women's .Association of .Accra: and regularly works at several local charities. In my area. I am in the chancery* during the day, at social functions in the evening. and usually get a breather in weekly jaunts over Ghana on speaking and hand-sliaking tours. 
The most interesting aspect of tliis fas­cinating country is the Ghanaians them­selves. They arc simple, humorous' and charming. Their penchant for hospitality is known ail over Africa. Although they retain some of the British formality and reser\'e, they have a warmth and naturalness that 
^DEAN RUSK, U. S. Secretary of State, BILL AND ALICE arc shown on their arrival in Ghana, and at right Alice in native _i;ave Bill exhaustive briefings before dress carries new daughter Noel Fitzgerald Mahoney on her back in African style. this "Bon Vovaj'c" in Washini'ton. Ghanaians rejoiced at Noel's arrival, naming her "Akua Awotwi'* (Wednesday's girl). 
DR. KWAME NKRUMAH, volatile presi­dent of Ghana, exchanges toasts with Bill at one of their frequent meetings.  FELLOW AMBASSADOR, former Michi­gan Governor G. Mcnnen Williams, presents Sports Illustrated Cup for Ghana track.  WILMA RUDOLPH, Olympic track star, chats with a fellow runner at Accra airport on a good-will tour of African nations.  
Xotre  Dame  Alumnus,  February-Afarch^  1964  

new daughter, Noel, whom the Ghanaians 
have named .Akua .Awotwi (in the Twi lan­


GHANA 
can only be described as native elegance: and this goes for the man in the bush as well as the Oxford and Cambridge gradu­ates who abound here. 
Ghanaians, too, are noted for their drive and ambition. They are impatient to get on with the job of nation-building. With its good roads, communications, buildings, extensive education s)stem and educated elite, Ghana is years ahead of other sub-Saharan .African nations and intends to stay ahead. 
Ghanaians like simple things. If we have enjoyed any success here as the representa­tives of the greatest nation on earth (re­garded as such by most Ghanaians), it is chiefly because of our children. From Presi­dent Nkrumah on down, they are admired as the most interesting product of the .American wav of life. The advent of our guage Akua stands for Wednesday's girl and .Awot%vi is number eight), has really capped the business of "personal diplomacy." We have been accepted by the people to an astonishing degree. 
Probably the most important part of our Ghana experience will be the effect it has had on our children. I told President Ken­nedy the day I went to the White House to pay my respects before leaving Washing­ton that the administration could talk about the New Frontier but the Mahonc>'S were going to live on it. How true that jesting remark has turned out to be. 
Now that our tour is about half over, I feel the whole cvperience is worth the effort for no other reason than to give our family a love and understanding of another con­tinent and people — a far-off continent, but a people amazingly like ourselves. 

PRIVATE AUDIENCE with Pope John XXi n at Christmas in 1962 was probably the Mahoneys' most memorable experience. 
Gary Post-Tribune photo JUDGE OBERMILLER of the City Court of Whiting, Ind., has become famous for what he calls "the family approach to justice.' Here he is shown directing the cleaning of beaches by boys convicted of damaging public property. His sentences have also suggested cutting of hair, spankings and other humiliations as alternatives to jail or reform school, and his theories, translated into several languages, have brought testimonials from all over the world as well as several citizenship awards. 
Reprinted from Gvidrposts magazine (copyright 1963 by Guldeposts, Associates, Inc., published at Cannel, Nc\*' York) 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
•) 

i ' I 'IME AND AGAIX young rowdies appear ^ A before me in court — arrested for brawling, for stealing hubcaps, for vandal­ism. They stand there in their blue jeans and sport shirts, their astonishing crops of hair combed back meticulously into "duck­
tails." 
On their faces they wear, too often, a 
kind of squashed-grin expression which I, 
after long e-vpcrience with hidden smiles, 
have come to know as the look of arrogance. 
There is always a challenge in that expres­
sion. .\nd whenever it comes my way I can ^see behind it the boys' intimidated parents giving way to this glower of defiance. 
Such a look I recall in particular on a 
Ix)y whom f dismissed the first time with a 
lecture and a fine. There and then he strode 
up to the court clerk and drew forth an 
enormous wad of bills — all singles it turned 
out — and with dramatic flourish paid his 
xvay out of the courtroom. This "perform­
ance" was watched with obvious admiration 
by a group of followers who had come to 
see their pal have his moment in the lime­^light. 
No More a Hero 

A month later the boy was back, this 
time pleading guilty to breaking window­
panes. At the outset I sensed that the word 
had gone out, "Al's in court again. Let's 
go down and get some kicks." 
Looking out at that audience of boys and 
girls, I couldn't help but wonder just who 
was on the spot, Al or me. What was he 
expecting? .Another chance to play a dra­
matic role, to turn the court into a stage? 
Most certainly a sentence to jail would give 
him the opportunity for a farewell scene. f.And when he came home after 30 days he would be the latest thing in toughness and worldliness, a hero. 
My decision with Al was difFerent: I sen­
tenced him to a haircut no more than half 
an inch in length. Then I ordered him to 
appear everj- Saturday morning for a teen­
age work detail that f run here in Whiting, 
Indiana. We do odd jobs about the city, 
like pulling weeds, painting fences and mow­
ing church lawns. 
What I have been tr>'ing to do with these 
young repeaters — those who are not sick 'or the criminal type — is treat them as kids and not as sociological phenomena. I try to think of myself as their father, someone who is fair, but firm. With teen-agers these days a hair style is a status symbol. Shave off his lavish blondncss and .Al is too em­barrassed to be a hero. And when he looks in the mirror he sees that he is a boyish 16 and not the 28 that he imagined himself. A haircut happened to be the pin that punctured .Al's ego. .After that, he became a person again. 
This was the type of punishment that I was tr\-ing to make fit the crime when, on a hot night last August, a group of boys, 17 to 19 years old, were brought before me charged with drinking and brawling at one of our public beaches on Lake Michigan. It was not the first time that they had ap­peared before me. On this occasion, their parents appeared with them. So did the usual cheering section. I noticed that three of the boys were especially cocky and that one of these turned on his weeping mother during the proceedings with a sassy "Drv up!" 
This time my sentence was a fine and 
costs, plus 60 days in jail. But no sooner 
had I made the pronouncement than I 
changed it to a loud "Sentence suspended!" 
The boys looked up at me in disbelief. 
In essence I then gave them the alternative 
of either going to jail or, as terms of proba­
tion, having their hair cut, plus getting out 
on Saturday to clean up the beach they 
had littered. They all chose the latter. For 
the cocky trio, however, I had an additional 
penalty in mind. 
"Have these boys had a good spanking 
lately?" I asked their parents. After some 
confusion, their answer came back "No." 
Then I asked the bewildered parents for 
permission as a further term of probation 
to let the police give their sons a spanking. 
They all agreed. 
Thereupon, each of the three boys walked 
for^vard, leaned over a table, and let his 
arresting officer give him 15 fatherly whacks. 
The arrogance dissolved in my courtroom 
almost as quickly and quietly as the cheer­
ing section disappeared through a distant 
door. 
What I have tried to do with those 
spankings is only what I believe parents 
should be doing. I have tried to restore in 
court the kind of authority that parents 
seem to have lost at home. .And they have 
lost this at home, I believe, because they 
have let this modem thing called permis­
siveness take such a hold on their thinking 
that they are afraid of their children, afraid 
to discipline them lest they develop un­
naturally, without proper "self-expression." 
Learn to Say No 

We have coddled children to such an ex­
tent that when they do wrong, we find ex­
cuses for them. At a later age we say that 
they are not guilt>- of crime because they are 
victims oi society, not responsible for their 
actions. In such a permissive world, it is 
not surprising that crime is tempting. 
You might call it "old-fashioned," but I insist that anything as necessary as dis­cipline should never be allowed to go out of fashion. I believe that responsibility and morality and respect for one's fellowman should be given an overhaul, f believe that it is time for parents to start fighting back in our PTAs and churches and discussion groups before our children take us over completely. 
Let's start by learning to say no. Parents have been running some kind of popularit>* contest in which the refusal of a request is like a lost vote. I have heard it said jok­ingly that parents should belong to a Pro­tective Association. That is not such an impossible idea. Perhaps they could band together to establish hard and fast rules for teen-age conduct. 
^Vc also might reappraise our ideas as to just what children arc. The important thing we adults overlook, I have come to realize, is that kids are kids. And yet, the race towards adulthood gets faster ever>­year. Little boys just out of infancy are given long pants and fedoras so they can look precisely like uny men. 
Girls of 11 put on high heels and eve­ning gowns and swirl shakily off to formal dances. In their teens, kids roar forth in their automobiles to do whatever comes nat­urally because their parents can't really say no to their insistent demands. By the time they are 16 or 17 nowadays, young people 
are bored because they have done every­
thing. And boredom makes for trouble. 
We might clarify the lines of authority 
under which we place our children — and 
stick to the demarcation. A teacher, for in­
stance, supposedly takes the place of the 
parent during the school hours. Yet, if that 
teacher severely reprimands our child for a 
misdeed, too often we rush to take the child's 
side, even going so far as to seeing that the 
teacher is reprimanded. It's easy for a par­
ent to find an excuse for his pedestal-placed 
offspring, but how many of us stop to pon­
der if it isn't an indulgence on our part? 
What about church? Should we approach 
that permissively too? Should we let our 
children drift in and out of Sunday school 
at will? Should we stop exposing them to 
religion at all until they are "old enough 
to decide for themselves?" 
I say no. I think children should know 
early and soon about God. They should be 
drenched with a sense of the authority which 
He has over all of us, and then perhaps they 
will comprehend something of the authority 
of parents and of the rightness of order and 
law in the community. 
I believe in the awesome sense of morality, 
of humility before our Creator. It always has 
been risky, of course, to allow children to 
put their full trust in a father and mother 
who some day, in some way, must prove 
fallible. But God is rock-like in His firmness. 
It is He who is infallible and it is His per­
\-ading morality which can keep the juvenile 
hand from the hubcap when our own human 
disciplines fail. 
If I have learned anything through my 
official dealings with teen-agers, it is that 
youth ^vants discipline: young people want to 
be told what to do. That is part of the an­
swer to their aimlessness. They need to be 
guided personally, however, with imagination 
and with effort on our part. 
I have gathered these things from the 
youngsters themselves on the Saturday work 
details when we go out to clean up beaches, 
paint fences, pull up weeds. I say "we" be­
cause I go out with the boys each Saturday. 
Waiting for Us 

When they see the sweat on my brow they are more inclined to understand that I am not being tough in court just for the sake of toughness. It's then, in the work-breaks, that I can get across the idea that the real tough guy is the guy who stands up for his principles, who can swim against the tide and say no to something like drinking or brawling. 
Sometimes I'll look down from my bench at a teen-ager and I'll ask him gently, "What's bothering you?" The answer is usually a shrug. The youngsters simply do not know. 
-Actually, they arc waiting for us adults to tell them what is wrong, the same way they are waiting for us to take charge of them, to lead. Parental leadership from my vantage point is a matter of being firm, but fair. It is loving them but not coddling them. It is making sure that they know God loves them, that they are His children too. 
Perhaps the most important way for us to help our children grow up is for us to grow up first. It is for us to demonstrate that we are neither afraid of our responsi­bility — nor of our children. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ February'March, 1964 11 
this is the way with most of us. ^Ve 
don't value things till later, and some^ times too late. ~
MAN and the 
The Grotto at Notre Dame is beau­tiful and I dare say it is one of the treasures of every lad who came to 


MOMENT 
scliool. How like a dream we remem­
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 
(Continued


THE GROTTO 
 SOME PEOPLE it may seem 

T
O strange tliat a sick doctor in far­away Hong Kong should feel so strong­ly about Notre Dame and the Grotto. Sickness is a great thought provoker. Time hangs heaxy and pain prevents the luxury of sleep. And when a per­son knows his disease or affliction is terminal he reaches back and grasps tiie great moments that helped him in the past and perhaps can help him now. As one edges to eternity he looks longingly at a life he is about to leave. This was the way with Doctor Dooley. With aching fingers he spoke his heart on a typewriter. These are fragments from the letter to Father Hesburgh. It is a meaningful meditation for all of us. "Two things prompt this note. . . . The first is that whenever my cancer acts up, and it is certainly acting up now, I turn inward a bit. Less do I think of my hospitals around the world, of 94 doctors, fund raisina; and the like. 
from Lost Issue) 
More do I think of one divine Doctor, and my own personal fund of grace. But when the time comes, like now, then the storm around me does not matter. The winds within me do not matter. Nothing human or earthly can touch me. A wilder storm of peace gathers in my heart. 'What seems un­possessable I can possess. What seems unfathomable, I can fathom. What is unutterable, I can utter. Because I can pray. I can communicate. How do peo­ple endure anything on earth if they cannot have God? 
"The second reason I write to you just now is that I have in front of me the Notre Dame ALUMNUS of Septem­ber 1960. . . . So, Fatlier Hesburgh, Notre Dame is twice on my mind . . . and always in my heart. That Grotto is the rock to which my life is an­chored. Do tlie students ever appreci­ate what they have, while they have it? I know I never did. ... " I suppose ber the place when we are far away. \Vhile we were at school it was just a nice walk to say a quick prayer. Now we are in the rush of the speeding planet. How like a dream we remem-W^ ber now the peaceful afternoons of lazy spring. The ground was new, soft and soggy, but the sky was clear and fresh. May days were gay days. Then the au­tumn haze. Rifts of fading sunlight gave a bright touch to the gray rocks of the Grotto. How like a dream were the winter nights at the Grotto with the vigil lights doing shadow dances to keep warm. We remember these" things now and we are glad that all this is part of us. The lovely Lady still looks down from her niche in the rock. She has not forgotten that we are hers 

— no matter where we are, no matter what has happened. Doctor Dooley said, "Cold prayers from a hospital bed are just as pleasing to God as were youthful prayers from a Grotto on the lid of night." 
This is true. And this is the lesson^; we should carr)' with us. It does a soul good and it warms our hearts to pause in our haste and remember the un­hastening hours and the sun that dialed its seasons on the aging stones of a Grotto. 
•

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION DIRECTORS, 1964-66 
Installed at the Winter Meeting of the Alumni Board, January 31, 1964 
•> 

Thomas P. Camey '37 Dr. Bertrand D. Coughlin William V. Cuddy '32 Herbert M. Sampson '30 Indianapolis, Ind. '26 St. Louis, Mo. White Plains, N.Y. Omaha, Neb. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
From left: Prcsidait Facccnda and Vice-Presidents Castellini, Keman and Toomey. 

L
AST ISSUE, in "A Look at the New Look," a brief survey was made of the 
functions of the Alumni Association to em­phasize the importance of this body among the councils of the University. 
The responsibilities of the Alumni Board, meeting three times a year as a committee of the whole, were explained in terms of their work on subcommittees dealing with various aspects of University and alumni life. 
Those standing committees described as dealing principally with alumni organiza­tion included the Executive Committee, 
^Committees on Club and Class .'Activities, and the Committee on Inter-.Alumni Af­fairs. .^Iso involving alumni but similarly concerned with the total life of the Univer­sity, as described in the last issue, are the Committee on Preparator)- Schools and -Ad­missions, the Committee on Placement and Job Counseling, the Committee on Prestige and Public Relations, and the Committee on the .\lumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts. 
A comparable breakdown exists among the remaining committees to be considered. Primarily concerned with the operations of the Board and the Alumni Association are 
^the Committees on Religion and Citizen­
'™ship. Nominations, and Budget and Finance. More campus-centered are such new com­mittees as those on Athletics, Academic .Af­fairs and Student .'Mfairs. The first-named group comprises the older committees, having suited the traditional concept of seri'ice to alumni over the 40 ! years since the reorganization of the .•Mum­: ni Association. 
I RESOLUTIONS. Like all the lay coun­
• cils of the University, the .Alumni Board I is advisory rather than administrative. ^fThcrcfore all motions dealing with matters I other than the activities of the Board it­self are in the form of -resolutions of ap­proval, disappro\-al or recommendation of particular courses of action by the Univer­sity, the Notre Dame Clubs or the Notre Dame Classes. (Nowhere is the Jcffersonian principle of local self-government more in evidence than in the Notre Dame Alumni .Association.) Until recently these rcsolu-
I tions were the work of a separate subcom­
mittee assigned to this purpose, but the I volume and multiplicity of the Board's con­^.iderations suggested the disbanding of this 
•
 committee in the recent reorganization, sub­

•
 Ject to re-erection when the need is appar­ent. Currently the framing of resolutions is assigned to the appropriate study commit­tees and resolutions adopted by the Board acting as a Committee of the Whole at the 


I trimestrial meetings. 
i NOMINATIONS. Vice-Presi'dents Wil­l Ham Fallon '37 and John Dempsey '49 =; headed two separate committees which sub­-; mitted slates of candidates and alternates ; for the recent Board ballot. Candidates were selected from a pool of annual nominations by ofHcers of the Notre Dame Clubs and Classes. Previous years' nominees are kept active, since the considerations of geography and class spread (to assure proportional rep­resentation) often prevent the immediate appearance on the ballot of worthy candi­dates from an era or area already well rep­resented on the Board. The four candidates elected for 1964-67 represent a wide range of decades and regions. 
RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP. Founded to enhance the influence of reli­gion and patriotism in alumni life, the committee principally suggests the theme for Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on the Sunday nearest to the Feast of the Immaculate Conception — this past December 8 the theme was "Federal Aid to Education" — but it works to promote spiritual and civic activity of all kinds among alumni and Notre Dame Clubs, in­cluding lawyers' Red Masses, retreats, days of recollection, etc. A recent project was the Alumni Field Mass at the Gettysburg Cen­tennial under the direction of Rev. Thomas 
J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Vice-President-elect .Albert Castcllini '24 has been chairman. 
BUDGET AND FINANCE. A 'Svatch­

dog" committee for the budget and expend­
itures of the .Alumni Office, the Committee 
on Budget and Finance was instituted to 
recommend increases or decreases in the 
annual operating budget. A continuing 
necessity in the years when the Association 
budget operated on alumni dues, it has be­
come an emergency valve since Alumni Of­
fice operations became a part of the operat­
ing budget of the University. 
The newer committees are concerned with bringing the alumni closer to faculty, students and administration in the Univer­sity community that has come to be called the Notre Dame Family. They have been erected gradually since 1961, when Walter Fleming '40, having seen cracks developing in the hitherto unquestioned solidarity of that family, suggested them as a means of strengthening that solidarity and thereby preserving those elusive but essential quali­ties called "the Notre Dame Spirit" and "the Notre Dame Image." 
STUDENT AFFAIRS. In the 10 years, roughly, since the last of the war genera­tion was graduated, the Notre Dame stu­dents of the "cold war" or "beat" or "un­silent" generation have often been a riddle to administration, faculty and alumni alike 
— brighter by most criteria but certainly less docile. .Academic, religious and disci­plinary programs have undergone radical changes in an attempt to adjust to them. Merely to keep track of those changes (in grading, honor system, regulations, hall chaplains, all-night lights, the "stay-hall" system, elimination of morning checks and hall Masses, to name a few) demanded the 

New Look: 

Part Two 

immediate creation of a Student .Affairs 
Committee. Subsequent development of 
town-and-gown and student-administration 
friction required close study of those 
changes and the conditions that engen­
dered them. The committee, headed by 
Vice-President-elect Peter Keman '49 over 
the past year, consulted regularly with the 
Vice-President for Student Affairs, the 
Student Chaplain, the Dean of Students 
and \'arious elements of Student .Gov­
ernment. 
ATHLETICS. The demonstrated inter­
est of all Notre Dame men in the Univer­
sity's athletic fortunes is concentrated and 
focused in the Board's Athletic Committee, 
which wasn't instituted until 1961. No com­
mittee has been more active than this one 
under indefatigable President-elect Philip 
Faccenda '51, aided by fellow Monogram 
Clubbers Bill Fallon '37 and Lancaster 
Smith '49, constantly consulting with Father 
Joyce, the Faculty Board in Control of Ath­
letics, Ed Krause, Herb Jones and Bob 
Cahill in the -Athletic Office, the coaches 
of the "major" and "minor" varsity sports, 
intramural athletics and such "club" sports 
as sailing, rugby, lacrosse, soccer and hock­
ey. With the cooperation of all concerned, 
the committee is interested in finding and 
encouraging athletic talent in all these 
areas from all areas of the United States, 
both observing and demanding strict ad­
herence to the rules of the NCAA and 
other athletic bodies with which the Uni­
versity is affiliated. A look at the overall 
records will show that the last few years 
have been the "winningest" (with some 
well-publicized exceptions) in the history 
of Notre Dame, with such new national 
laurels as the IC4A cross-country champion­
ship. Finally, the committee was a prime 
mover in establishing a $3 million .Athletic 
and Convocation Center as the major alum­
ni goal of the Challenge II program, re­
placing the antiquated field house, and 
recognizing athletics as an integral part of 
"the tradition of great teaching" to be ex­
tended. 
ACADEMICS. The Committee on -Aca­demic Affairs is the newest subcommittee to be added to the Alumni Board roster, hav­ing been erected during the past year. Under the chairmanship of George Baris­cillo '44, the committee consults with Aca­demic Vice-President Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C, as a liaison with the deans and department heads of the four undergradu­ate colleges as well as the Law School and Graduate School. This shoidd provide a sorely needed channel of commimication between alumni and faculty — particularly timely in the light of the Challenge II theme. 
President Oliver Hunter '43 and Secre­tary James .Armstrong '25 have been ex of­ficio members of all the -Alumni Board's committees. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 13 


Notre Dame Books 
RED SMITH ON FISHING, by Red Stnith (Doubleday, New York. 192 pp., $3.95). 
Oscar Godbout wrote in the New York Times: 
**Red Smith, the sports columnist, like most normal men, has a secret vice eating away at his soul. Some persons go the way of race tracks or foreign movies or slipping Canadian coins in vending machines. Smith is careering to a bad end through a weak­ness for fishing. 
"He exposes himself in everj- line of . . . a compendium of columns he has written 
DIRECTORS GATHER FOR ANNIVERSARY 
.As this issue goes to press the past, present and future directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association have gathered on the campus for the First General Reunion of National Directors elected since the Board was established on an annual election basis in 1924. 
This Fortieth Anniversarj*. Reunion follows the Winter Board Meeting, Jan. 30-31, and nearly 100 directors were ex­pected for the ceremonies concluding Feb. 2, saluting University and alunmi development over the past 40 years and joint entry into the CH.ALLENGE II phase of a ten-year development pro­gram. 
Future issues will contain a full re­port of the reunion. 
about his angling misadventures in unlikely places around the world. Oddly, Smith is not' an outdoors writer by trade. Most of his working time he is erudite about race horses with a weakness for goodies that make them go faster, the art of spiking first basemen without malice, and whether Cas­sius Clay's verse can be parsed. 
"Now he stands revealed as an authority on piscicide. Few can match his style. Wit­ness this description: 'Once through the narrow waist of the bridge, the stream relaxes with a soft sigh, like a lady who has removed her girdle." " 
THE REVOLT OF THE COLLEGE IN­TELLECTUAL, by Everett Lee Hunt (Mental Health Materials Center. Inc., 104 E. 25 St., N.Y.C. $5.00). 
This volume was described as treating the changes that "have taken place in the mores, attitudes, and temperaments of students since certain of the so-called prestige col­leges have been able to select their students from among the top intellectuals." 
Since in many ways Notre Dame is more like the prestige college than like the larger, segmented, impersonal and graduate univer­sity, it seemed a good book to read. 
Not being an intellectual, I can only say that my personal reaction was that Dean 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 
N.D. COLLECTION BOOKS TO BE LISTED 
Since his article in the past issue about a proposed Notre Dame Collection of books by and about the University and her alunmi in the new Memorial Library, Library Director Victor A. Schaefcr has notified us that all books for the collec­tion from alunmi will be reported to us for listing on this page beginning next issue. 
(Emeritus) Hunt, basing his thesis largely on Swarthmore, has described a complete capitulation in recent years of authority and control by institutions to the increasing de­mands of students. 
These students, meeting I am sure an early and unanticipated surrender by ad­ministrations, have rejected tradition, re­spect, social conformitj- to even construc­tive standards, religious influence, commu­nity relations, in short most of the recom­mendations of experience. And ha\ing re­jected all of the things that produce and imply security, they base their discontent with all that they have left on — you guessed it — their insecurit>-. 
.And at the risk of doing some injustice to Dean Hunt, I derived from the book that the mental and emotional problems of these new students are being met by mental hos­pitals and psychiatric offices, not by the campus that is their home. 
Notre Dame's strong traditions of religion and discipline, and the all-male community, have tended to modify the revolt, but the results vividly evident at Swarthmore, and spreading nationally, are not without our 
LIBRARY COUNCIL inaugural meeting was attended by these charter members: 
(clockwise from upper left) Lester W. Olson, Milwaukee; John B. Shaw '37, Tulsa, Okla.; Victor A. Schaefer, Library director; John T. Frederick Litt-D '62; Rev. Philip 
S. Moore CSC '24; and John P. Cullen '22, Milwaukee. Missing were novelist Paul Horgan LL.D. '38, Senator Eugene McCarthy of Minnesota, Ralph G. New­man of Chicago, and political columnist Walter Troban '26. 


1964­
local s>-mptoms. It is good to have access to this map of the road ahead. JE.A 
THE SMALL RAIN, by Rev. Ra>-mond Roseliep, Ph.D., '54. (Ncwnnan Press, West­minister, Md., 1963.) 
"These are fresh and original poems,'"­writes poet Paul Engle. "Raymond Roseliep's unique gift is the power to take the most ordinary details of anyone's daily life (a cold shower, crackerjack, an old watch, cans of tomato juice) and make a human vision out of them. He also brings to the forms of his 
FOURTH PILGRIMAGE TRACES CRUSADES 
A few vacancies may still exist for the Fourth Notre Dame Alumni Pilgrimage to Europe, April 17 to May 10, this time extending also to the Holy Land. The itinerary closely follows the route taken in the Crusades centuries ago and in­cludes many of the sites visited by Pope Paul VI on his recent pilgrimage. 
All-expense rate for the tour, includ­ing round-trip transportation by TWA jet, is $1,390, and there is an alternate trip to Europe alone for less than half the rate. The full Pilgrimage will de­part New York for Athens, Rhodes, Cairo, Luxor, Beirut, Jerusalem (Jordan and Israel), Tel Aviv, Rome, Lisbon and ( i back to New York. 
Full information can be obtained from Ask Mr. Foster Travel Seriice offices in New York, Chicago and Los Angeles. 
poems the same sort of invention in rhythm and line which he brought to their subject matter. -Above all, the book is lively, squirm­ing with life as a sympathetic but candid eye has seen it." 

Notre Dame professor Harold Isbell (Gen. Program), rcvie%ving Father Roselicp's ne^ft* book in The Catholic Worker, speaks of "the triple loneliness of priesthood, teaching, and poetry," which figures in The Small Rain. "Though his song sanctifies the deli­cacy of 'hair which falls blackbird,' it never becomes his to touch. Tliis finality of lov­ing gives these poems a wide-ranging free­dom, a freedom to love all things because they reflect the catholicity of goodness and beauty which is the poet's voluntary en­gagement." 
The book has a variety of subjects. There, are poems about family and friends, poenw' of human and divine love, and the renounce­ment of love. Others deal with birth, exist­ence, death. Young people, students, poets and novelists also appear. A number treat of paintings, war, the priesthood, physical nature, the art of writing. "Love," this poet has said, "is at the centre of all my writing." 
Father Roseliep teaches at Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa. He received his M.A. from the Catholic University before his doc­torate from Notre Dame. The Linen Bands, his first book, appeared in 1961. 
f) 

By Warren Clayton Stephens 
Sl0^ 
Secretary, Class of 1964 

tHc Stud^^^ 

{Since his last column and the close of the football season several things have hap­pened to Clay Stephens. Most notably, he went home to California for Christtnas vaca­tion and returned a married man, tying the knot on Dec. 28. Also he was among 33 Notre Dame students selected for Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities. 
Clay lives in South Bend with his bride, the former Millie Wynne of San Francisco.) 
A
MONG STUDENTS there is currently a controversy raging over the effect of losing football on the "Notre Dame 
^.pirit." Much of the feeling expressed in various student media, the Scholastic, the Voice, and the Senior Sentinel, is in re­action to an article written by Durkin Man­ning, an upperclassman, entitled "Shake Do\vn the Thunder." Mr. Manning main­tained that as a result of ten years of mediocre football teams the Notre Dame spirit is dying and the Notre Dame family is splitting into dissenting administration, student and faculty groups. 
This article provoked a student response from every quarter and every angle. The situation is so complex and influenced by so 
^nany diverse factors that no letter, article or discussion has or could come up with a i final conclusion. This controversy may yet 5 prove to be a blessing in disguise because , of the new awareness of the University and 
; appreciation for the value of Notre Dame 1 resulting from the constant rethinking and : re-evaluation involved in the entire dis­', cussion. 
i Old Spirit Waning? 
I .At this point I would like to quote three 
I student letters printed in a recent issue of 
1 the Scholastic, but I must stress that these 
^ire only the views of three individuals and the entire discussion is far from over. Arts and Letters sophomore Minch Lewis of Mt. Prospect, III., wrote: ". . . Notre Dame and Football arc no longer synony­mous. The applicant who needs this demon­strated to him has little chance of progress­ing beyond the application stage. Nor should they be synonymous. Football is clearly subordinate to the intellectual tra­dition and is justified by being a helpful oudet for an individualistic temperament. ^The emotionalism is good because man is ^ar t emotional. Football is also justified on pragmatic considerations. It makes money which supports much of the intellectual endeavor. "But losing football makes it impossible to be proud of one's university. Yes, if that is all your university has to offer. . -. "We have come back to Mr. Manning's most serious concern—that losing football is destroying the Notre Dame community. If the community is built on football to this extent, then I have to agree with the science profs quoted by Mr. Manning, "I couldn't 
'Thunder' Brings a Shower! 

be happier." .Assuming that this is the case, I suggest that football could never serve the present student body as a unifying factor. It ceased to serve as such with the develop­ment of the "administration vs. student" complex. During the past ten years the quality of the student body has constantly increased. According to Father Hesburgh, standards will continue to rise. Something with much more meaning than watching our eleven representatives mangle eleven representatives of some traditional enemy is needed to unify this community — espe­cially when Mr. Manning asserts, 'It wasn't a matter of how you played the game—it was a matter of winning.' 
"The tension between the elements of the University exists because the institutions which ser\'ed the old order, exemplified by Mr. Manning's N.D. spirit, have not been adapted to meet the potential of the New Order. I don't think that our attitude should be the bitterness which Durkin Manning finds in his existence at Notre Dame. We don't have time for bitterness. It is our responsibility to adjust to the in­stitutions of Notre Dame, so that we will be members, not of a community dedicated to football, but of one dedicated to the true Christian spirit, which, it seems to me, ought to be synonymous with Notre Dame." 
All Spirit Lacking? Engineering junior .Antone Perrone of Englewood, N.J., wrote: "I msh to con­gratulate Durkin Julian Manning for his unreser\'ed, straight-tongued attack on the apparent University policy of denying that 'Notre Dame spirit' is rapidly being ex­tinguished on the Notre Dame campus. His article was the first substantial contribution to true expression of student opinion and feeling this year, and it proved both meaty and undaunted. His obvious sincerity was a direct indication of a deep concern to confront and attempt to resolve this grave Notre Dame situation ... . "Regarding the substance of the article, I did some investigating of my own into this matter of the 'Notre Dame spirit,' and I found by conversing with one particular Notre Dame alumnus that this spirit was something very real. It was the inevitable fact of winning which constituted this spirit. It was this spirit which constantly drove the flocks of students to the Grotto. It was this spirit which truly made the whole Notre Dame man. It was this spirit which ulti­mately inspired the Notre Dame man to be successful in all facets of his later life. This particular alumnus to whom I am referring was to me the essence of the Notre Dame man. He admitted that it was this drive for victory instilled in him at Notre Dame which accounted for his success in life, and success truly was his being a significant business executive and fine Cath­olic and family man. 
"I would like to feel this spirit before I graduate from Notre Dame, or at least know that it is returning to this University. I want to assure myself that there is something unique about Notre Dame and it is not just a good academic institution. There is one thing I now know for certain, however, and this is if the present situation continues into the future this University will become com­pletely unbearable for any student; we are not going to attract those fine geniuses Fr. Hesburgh is after unless drastic changes are made in administrative attitude and policy to student life. .. . I am encouraged to sec that the University has made initial steps to recapture this uniqueness, but full support has to be given and maintained. -Ara Parseghian, you have full student sup­port, of that you can be siu'e, but speaking for myself, and I'm sure many other stu­dents here, we are tired of yelling for nothing." 
New Spirit Rising? -And finally. Science soph Richard Lepre of New York City wrote: "Mr. Manning feels that Notre Dame spirit was produced by winning football games. . . . His concern is over the fact that Notre Dame no longer produces winning football teams and that as a result the Notre Dame spirit is dying. I will agree with Mr. Manning that at one time a 'football-centered' spirit existed. How­ever, if the true Notre Dame spirit is some­thing which can die as the result of the outcome of several football games, it is better off dead. Every university should have a spirit. This spirit should be concerned primarily with the intellectual life of the university; it may be concerned . , . with, among other things, footb£tIl. If a univer­sity's spirit is such that it falls apart for lack of a winning Jootball team, something is wrong. Mr. Manning states that 'intellec­tual e-xcellence and "The Spirit of Notre Dame" . . . can live side by side. . . .' This statement implies that. the spirit of Notre Dame is not one of intellectual e.xcellence. Such a spirit is therefore essentially mis­guided as it is not in keeping with the goal of a university. 
"However. I would not sell the students of the University as short as Mr. Manning does. They are not so intellectually lacking that they applied to this University because it was best known .. . or because it pos­sessed a spirit based on football. I believe that a new spirit based on intellectual ex­cellence is rising within the University. The nature of the new buildings on the east campus is a physical manifestation of this spirit. ... " 
There's a sampling. This controversy, seinester exams and the traditional Mardi Gras festivities seem to be the principal preoccupations until after .Easter. I'll be back next time' with 'a- summary of the spring semester. •'• • • 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 15 
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION: APRIL 24-26. GRAND BAHAMA 
LAST CALL to Grand Bahama Island, to the new Lucayan Bcacli Hotel for alunmi attending the Second Annual Notre Dame International Convention in 1964. The con­vention is planned for .'\pril 24. 25 and 26. 
The 1964 convention will be joiiitly sponsored by the Xotre Dame Alumni Clubs of Miami, Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach County. They offer an open invitation to cvcr\' Notre Dame alumnus throughout the country. 
Prices for the convention have been set at $118 per couple for three days and two nights at the smart rcson hotel. This price includes round-trip air fare on Mackey Airlines from \\''est Palm Beach. 
The 252-rooni Lucayan Hotel is an ideal locution for the 1964 convention, according to the committee. Ever>- room and suite in the hotel will overlook the water after comple­tion in December. In addition to its beach-front location, there are canal %vays. a lake, and a yacht marina adjacent to the hotel. .-\n 18-hole championship golf course adjoms the modem hotel for use by convention delegates. 
For further fnfomiaiion. write the Notre Dame Convention Headquarters, 100 East Las Olas Boulevard. Fort Lauderdale. Florida. 
April 6 or fhereaboufs 

Unmrsal ND Night '64 To Hail 'Great Teaching' 
THE 41ST ANNUAL Uiiivers:il Xotre Daiiic Night will be obsencd on April 6 in 1964. with the usual allowances for time adjustments to permit itineraries for speakers, commimity conflicts of dates or places, etc. 
The proposed topic. "Extending the Tradition of Great Teaching," is the theme of the Challenge II phase of the Notre Dame's long-range development program for the Uni­versity, It is a topic which reaches directly into the elementary, secondary, and higher educa­tional institutions of every community. 
By adopting this general theme, our Clubs can turn the spotlight on the great teach­ing at Notre Dame, and at the same time pay tribute to the teaching of the parochial and public schools of their own community, to the high schools and to the colleges and universities nearest them. Speaker.' will be easy to come by. .And the Man-of-the-Year Award might well go this year to the Teacher of the Year, who could be from the Notre Dame campus (possibly returning to his home town for this honor), or he could be a local or nearby teacher of major identity in this field. 
Here again, this theme would not only benefit the Clubs and Notre Dame, but would ser\'e as a contribution to the stature of the teaching profession, which should multiply the publicit>' and public relations values of the 1964 Night. 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus^ February-March, 1964 
• ) 
Spirts 
by Charlie Callahan *38 

A
ssu.Mi.\G that all readers of this bif ' monthly periodical are also readers of daily papers around the nation, it is hard­ly an act of enlightenment to mention that the University of Notre Dame has a new football coach, Ara Parscghlan, or that John­ny Jordan has resigned as basketball coach, effective at the conclusion of the current season. 
As for up-to-date football information, that will be forthcoming in the June issue of the ALUMXUS when spring practice has been completed, and an end-of-the-sea­son statistical report on basketball will then 
be available loo. So what else comes under the caiegon.' ol ( news on the athletic front? 
Cross-Country and Track . . , Under the direction of Coach Ale.v Wilson, the cross­countn- team had an excellent campaign last fall. The high spot of the season was gaining first place in the IC4A meet in New York City, and in the NCA.-V meet the Irish finished a good third. With Captain Frank Car\*er leading the way most of the time, they were unbeaten in dual competi­tion. The indoor track season bccan on 
JOHN JORDAN leaves at season's end. 
Fel>. 1 with a triangular meet at lioine with  U'restliiiii .. . In December, Coach Tom  
Indiana and Purdue. Then came tlie Mich­• igan State Rehiys, and ahead arc dual  Fallon's wrestlers won one and lost one. Dick .Arrington. football tackle, has become  
meets with Michigan (away) and Pitts- a crowd favorite while competing in the  
i)uruh (home). On Fel>. 29 the Wilsonites  heavyweight division.  
will rorripete in the Ccnlnil Collegiate Con­ Sicimminii • ­• Coach Dennis Stark's  
ference meet at Kalamazoo: on Mar. 7 in  swinuners beat Ohio U. but lost close de­ 
the IC4A meet in Xcw York: and an ap­ cisions to Wisconsin and Northwestern in  
pearance at the Knights of Colunilnis Re­ first semester dual meets. Doing ver\' well  
lays in Cleveland, Mar. I-I, will conchcde  as expected in the early meets were distance  
the indoor campaign. Coach Wilson, in his  free-stylers Charley Blanchard (senior) and  
Mth year, is Just about always opthnistic.  Rory Culhane (junior). This is the sixth  
and lie particularly likes to talk about junior  year of varsity swinuning at Xotre Dame.  
l|Bill Boyle, wlio last spring f)roke Alex's  Fencirtii . . . While Prof. Walter Lang- 
record in the 440 outdoors which had been  ford was away for two years directing Peace  
on the books for 31 years. Boyle was timed  Corps activities in Cliilc, Prof. Mike Dc­ 
in :46.5.  Cicco took over as head fencing coa':h. Xow  
Basketball . . . .-Vt the halfway mark, the  that Prof. I.angford has returned to ihe  
record was five wins and 10 losses, but  campus, fencing enjoys the distinction of  
Walt Sahm, 6-9 junior center, had missed  having co-coaches. The season began for  
several ganies because of a bad iiack. Larr>­ the swordsmen on Feb. 1, Indiana Tech  
Sheffield, junior guard, set a new ND one- at Fort Wayne, followed by a quadrangular  
game scoring record of 47 points as the  meet with Indiana. Iowa and the Air Force.  
Irish lost to Detroit in overtime, 114-104.  at Bloomington. Ind., Feb. 8. Co-Captains  
As I said before, we'll have the final stats ^o n basketball in the next issue.  Jack Joyce and Sam Crimone, both seniors. are hoping to lead the team to a record  ALEX  WILSON pilotedchamps.   cross-couniry  

ERA OF AR.-V began in December. More about that next issue. 
comparable to last year's mark of 14 wins and but two defeats (best of any sport in 1962-63). 
Frosh Football Note . . . There were niany familiar names working out with the freshmen football squad last fall . . . Mike Earley. halfback {son o! Bill halfback 1940­42 and later ass't coach under Frank Leahy; Mike is also the nephew of the Fred, place­kicking ace in 1943-1946-47) . . . Dan Gibbs, Jr.. end (son of Dan, Sr., pole­\-auIter, 1936-38) . . . Joe Kuharich, Jr., halfback (son of Joe, Sr., guard, 1935-37, and former head coach) . . . Angelo Schiralli, guard (son of Rocco, guard, 1933­
34) . . . Chuck Vergara, guard (nephew of George, end 1922-23) . . . and you may remember the outstanding play of Tom Lynch, captain and center of Na\*y, in last fall's battle between the Middies and the Irish . . . well, his younger brother Jim earned his Notre Dame numerals as an end candidate. 
CHECK WITH YOUR 
LOCAL CLUB FOR 
DETAILS OF YOUR 
NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
OBSERVANCE ON OR 
ABOUT APRIL 6 TO 
'EXTEND THE TRA­
DITION OF GREAT 
TEACHING' 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Febniary'March, 1964-17 
i^j^^w^-ctrq.jc^symgxa-rr^'^iaSBg^' •—'•°''™°""TrfTfffriTfT''n'^^ 
of Clubs and Their Presidents' 
ALABAMA John A. O'Brien, Jr., *51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Resent Forest, Birming­ham. Ala. ALASKA John S. Hdlcnthal, '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska. 
ARIZONA 
Phoenix^Jobn J. Schoutcn, *48, 2120 £ . Palm Ln., Phoenix 6, Arizona. Tucson—^Tinjothy R. King, '37, 5651 
E. Scarlett, Tucson, .Ariz. 
ARKANSAS Fori Smith—iamcs A. Gillcr, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Art Little /foci—James E. Xfadigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNU fiajtenjfrfrf—Richard L. Bamett, '56, 630 Golden State H«T., Baketsficid, CaJif. Cra/ro/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secrc­ary), 2430 Tuhtre St., Fresno, Calif. Greater Long Beach Area—Francis E. Conaty, '43, 3742 West 170th St., Torrance, Calif. Los Angeles—Robert L. Cerv-ais, '55, 3219 Rosewood .^\*e., Los Angeles 66, CaHf. NcTlhem—Dmiel J. Gentile, Jr., '48, 2932 Hillside Dr., Burlingame, Calif. Orange County—F. Steve Finan, '37, 2864 Monroe, Anaheim, Calif. Sacramento—^Alfred A. Kaelin, '55, 2784 Haiiness St., Saciamenlo IS, Calif. San Dieeo—Chtu Cohan, '54, 6080 Cowles Mtn., La Mesa, Calif. San Fernando Valley — Thomas W. Dunlay, '52, 14944 Napa St., Van Nuys, Calif. San Gabriel Valley — Wiiram T. Huston, '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
COLORADO Colorado Springs — Otto K. Hilbcrt, '54, 640 Dove Place, Colorado Springs, Co!o. Denver—^James M. Coughlin, '57, 3480 E. Quarles Dr., Littleton, Colorado. 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-Goldricky *56, Old County- High^ray, East Gianby, Conn. 
Fairfield County—^William Mulrenan. '37, 100 Tidcmm Terr., Fairfield, Conn. 
Kaueatuck—^Domenic A. Xarduca, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Naugatuck, Conn. 
New Haven—^Dr, Robert T. Warner, '53, I960 Whitney Ave., Hamdcn 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE Richard P. Hairsine, '55, 2219 Hcara Rd., Fairfax, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUAIBLi 
-Albert A. Virostck, Jr., '56, 7707 Granada Drive, Washington 34, D.C. 
FLORIDA CffuXra/—Joseph M. McNamara, '47, 
P.O. Box 5547, Orlando, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale — Robert E, Tsi.c-Donough, '52, 2844 Plunkett St. Hollywood, Fla. 
Greater Miami—Raymond Popp, *38, 444 N.E. 50th Terrace, Miami, Fla. 

North Florida—John F. Corrisan, '53, 1200 Bamett, Nat'l. Bank Bldg., JackwnvTlIe 2. Fla. 
Palm Beach County—Daniel DoA\*ney, Jr., '44, Suite 615, Harvey Bldg., \\"csl Palm Bcadi, Fla. 
Pensacoh—^John L. McCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pcnsacola, Fb . St. Petersburg-Tampa —• Mark E. 
Mooney, '26, 4325 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGU 

^//niKa—Robert F. Hodiman, '50, 210 North Ave., N.W., Apt. 31, At­lanta 13, Ga. 
IDAHO 

P. .NCchael Kohout, '59, 6820 Folk 
Drive, Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls —Jama M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho FalU, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS .4urora — Richard D . Schiller, '56, 998 Palace St., Aurora, III. 
Central Illinois — Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 S. Fifth St., Spring­field, ni. 
Chicago—Dr. Arthur L. Conrad, '35. 3601 North Harding, Chicago 18, III, 
Dcro/ur—John F. Foy, '33. 1416 W. Decatur St., Decatur, lil. Eastern Illinois—J. Francis McGough, '41, 1322 Walnut, Danville, III. Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Hgin, 111. /ofiVt—Robert M. Walsh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Joliet, 111. 
Kankakee Valley — Thomas J. Rev­nolds, '54, 343!/. S. Winfield, Kankakee, III. 
McHenry County—Donald C. Frcund, '55, 455 Brock St., Cr>-sial Lake, III. 
Peoria—John R. Powers, '53, 2910 U'estport Rd., Peoria, III. Boet/ord—Albert CarroU '22, 206 W. State St., Rodtford, III. 
Rock BSver Valley — Luke R- Morin, '53, 523 N. Diion Ave., Dixon, III. Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
Caffardli, '55, 2633-E Hawlhome Lane, Flossmoor, III. 
INDIANA Calumet District — David W. Ogrcn, '53, 5946 Hohman Ave., Hammond, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—James F. Hallipan, '32, 303 Wj-ser Bldg., Munde, Ind. Elkhart — Austin Gildca, *30, 5 St. 
Joseph ^L1no^, Elkhart, Ind. 
Evanstnlle—U. Patrick O'Daniel, '59, 3110 East Gum St., Evansville, Ind. Fort Wayne — Robert R. Luther, '49, 
443 Kinnaird Ave., Fort Waj-nc, Ind. Grant County — Eugene A. Campa­nalc, '50, Lincoln BK-d-, ^Vlarion, Ind. Indianapolis—Hon. John M. R>'an, '41, 5640 IVashington Blvd., Indi­anapolis 20, Indiana. 
Michigan CUy — Edu-ard J. Dwycr, '50, 2200 Oriole Trail, Long Beach, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph rc//o'—Joseph F. Dillon, '44. 2615 Marine St., South Bend, Ind. 
Terre Haute — Bernard Burdick, 1728 Crawford St., Terre Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley—Jamts W. Glascr, '50, 
P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
J8 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
IOWA Burlinston — Edward W. Daily, '33, 403 Court St., Burlingrton, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—A. James Murray, '60, 3701 Kencrest Drive, N.E., Cedar Rapids, loA^'a. Des J/oiHM—Paul C. Eide, '52, 403 Securities Bldg., Des Moines 9, lou'a. Dubuque—Rev. WilUam Kunsch, '37, Our Lady of Seveo Dolors Rectory, Festina, Iowa. Sioux'Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davtnport, Rock Island. Motine, E, Moline) — Robert C. Coo-n, '52, 206 Essex Lane, Dav­enport, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, *49, 2203 College, Topcka, Kansas. 
Salina—John C. Browne, *51, 5th & Court Sts., Clay Center, Kaiisas. ir£cAi/a—George A. Schwarr, '25, 500 
Orpheum Bldg., Wichiu 2, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 
Romano L. Mazzoli, *54, 415 Eastern Park^ray, Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 
Xew Orleans—Pitnc V. Miller, '59, 911 Pcre Marquette Bldg., New-Orleans 12, Louisiana. 
Xorthem Louisiana—Geoi^e J. Des­pot, '45, 517 Market, Shrevcporf, La. 
MAINE 

J. Paul Scully, Jr.. '41, 134 Cottage St., Lewiston, Maine. 
-MARYLAND 
Baltimore — William J. Kcary, '54, 412 North Bend Rd., Baltimore 29, -Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Berkshire County — Frank B. Kelly, '18, 226 Main St., Lee, Msiss. 
Boston—Cornelius Fowler, '47, 44 Gailord Street, Melrose 76, Mass. Pioneer Tof/o'—Daniel J. O'Connell, 
'22, 11 Pynchone Rd., Holyoke, Mass. MICHIGAN 
Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Nfles, iDch. 
Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
Dearborn—GeOTgt: C. Ball, '49, 7746 Orchard, Dearborn, Mich. 
Detroit—John R. Panclli, '49, 22750 West 8 Mile Rd., Detroit 19, iCch. Flint — Walter G. Najel, '56, 1921 
Castle Lane, Flint, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zimi, tCchaels Bldg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—Robert C. Woodhouse, '47, 1664 .Alexander, S.E., Grand Rapids, Midi. 49506 Hiawathaland — Donald T. Trotticr, '44, 604 Ludington St., F.scanaba, XOch. Jackson — Cyril J. Harttnan, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Joseph O'Keefe, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamamo, Mich. 
Lansing — Bcmartl J. ifayoltc. '50, 1130 Hitching Post, E. Lansing, -Mich. 
Monroe—Hugh J. Laughna, *40, 1587 Riverview, Atonroe, Mich. Muskegon — James Morse, '57, 2337 Vincent Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley —• Gerald E. Carroll, '46, 2124 Sfatth St., Bay City, JDch. 

Top ol Michigan — Edward L. Molo-^ ncy, '17, 416 East State St. Che-bo>-gan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
TzL-ln Cities — John F. Clifford. "38, 984 .Ashland Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI Kansas City—George J. Higgins, '53, c/o Employers Mutual of Wiscon­sin, 210 W. Tenth St., Kansas City, Mo. St. Louts — Herman L. Kriegshauser, '54, 11700 Sercma Dr., St. Louis 31, -Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Grainey, '43, 906—11 Ave., Helena, Montana. 

NEBRASKA Omaha and Council Bluffs—^Jamcs .\. ^ Buckley, '53, 4315 Shirley, Omaha, f ' Neb. 
NEW JERSEY C«n/ra/— Thomas F. Kenneally, '30, Box 257, Middlebush, N.J. Near Jersey Shore — George A. Baris­cillo, Jr., '44, 416 Burlington Ave., Bradley Beach, N.J. Xew Jersey—Harry Durkin. '53, 24 Branford Pbce, Newark, N.J. South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Richard R. Everroad, '41, 2323 Mor­row Rd., N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 
NEW YORK Albany—Frsnk E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Brookline. Ave-, Albany, N.Y. Buffalo—Robert C. Weber, '49, 103 Colony Ct., Buffalo 26, N.Y. 
Central-James F, Waller, '48, 101 Merman Dr., S>mcuse, N.Y., 13214. 

GoUen Crrcfe—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. f)) 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Brian C. O'Neill, '56, Titusville Road, Rt. No. 2, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 
Mohawk Valley — L. Daniel CalUn, '49, 62 Pearl St., New Hartford, N.Y. 
New York City — Edward B. Filzpal­rick, Jr., '54, 333 Emory Rd., iCneoU, N.Y. 
Rochester — James S. Doyle, '54, 19 East Ave., Honeoye Falls, N.Y. Schenectady—Robert B. Piorkowski, '54, 9 Oak HiU Dr., Scotia 2, N.Y. 

<^ I
Syracuse—Sec "Central New York." 
r,,-...-..^., ...-.,,.-_-.­

I Southern Tier—Frank F. O'Brien, J '34, 201 Ftderation BWg., Elmira, WTriple Cities — Joseph P. Galla»-av, '51, 29 Nonnan Rd. (MR97), Binghamton, N.Y.  OKLAHOMA Oklahoma City—Waller A. Xashert, Jr., '54, 2601 Drakestone, Okla­homa, City, Okta. Tulia—Marion J. Blake, '33, 709 Oil Capita] Bldg., Tulsa, Okla.  • TENNESSEE Chattanooga — Edu-ard F. Davis. M3. 506 Barrington, Signal Mojutuiu, Tenn. Memphis—John M. Remolds, *56, 409 Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tcnn.  La Craw—Donald F. Seger, 'S2, 139 S. nt h St., La Cran^ Wise Jfnriff—Augmtus R. Staage, '27, 102 S. Prospect St., Menill, Wist itaamtket—Thaaai L. Mukahy, '57, 7349 N. Lombaidr Rd., Milwau. kee 17, Wise  
NORTH CAROLINA Donald J. Kdscy, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. NORTH DAKOTA William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, N.D. ^:% OHIO Akron—James E. Murphy, '53, 654 Cliffsidc Dr., Akron, Ohio. Ccnlon—Robert L. Joliet, '51, 4610 Yale Ave., N.W., Canton 9, Ohio. Cincinnati—J. Barry Saragc, '5i, I70i Kingsway, Cincinnati, Ohio. CUielnnd—Jmcph E. Sotak, Jr., '40, 3340 Rumson Rd., Cleveland Heights, 18, Ohio. Columbus — John J. Dilenschncidcr, '53, 2555 Berwy-n Rd., Columbus _ 21, Ohio. W Dajton—Patrick J. Foley, '54, 501 Third Nat'I BIdg., Dayton 2, Ohio. Hamilton—^Jerome A. R>'an, '41, 353 South D St , Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfield—I.CO J. Scanlon, '30, 121 Pearl Street, Crestline, Ohio. Northwestern — James W. Myers, '38, 230 E. Wa)Tie St., Celina, Ohio. Ohio Valley—RobtTl R. Sincavich, '40, 134 Grant Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky — Richard C. Hohlcr, '47, 2603 Eastiiood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. Tigin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycatnore St., TiiSn, Ohio. Toledo — James P. Silk, '54, 270" ^ Graceivood Rd., Toledo, Ohio. ^ youngJtoxn—Charles J. McCrudden,  OREGON H. Paul Nwvman, '55, 13145 S.E. Kuehn Rd., ifilwaukie 22, Oregon. PENNSYLVANIA Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41, U.S. Bank BIdg., Johnstown, Pa. Erie—James P. Lcydon, '49, 268 Hen­ley Road, Philadelphia 51, Pa. Harriliure—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Park Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Valley—Ercalo J. Spinosa, '57, 1124 Kearney St., AUentown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brmvns\ille, Pa. PAi/adrfpAia—James P. Leydon, 268 Henley Rd., Philadelphia 51, Pa, Pittsbureh — Donald W. Bebenek, '52, 1513 Berger BIdg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa. Seranton — C. Ricliard Marshall, '51, Connell BIdg., Seranton 3, Pa. IVUkes-Barre — ^issymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Waiiamsport — Joseph Orso, Jr., '55, 641 Oliver St., Williarasport, Pa. RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Edwarrl P. Denning, _*50, 114 Green­wich Ave., E. Providence, R.I. SOUTH CAROLINA Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Wcstwood, Charleston, S.C. SOUTH DAKOTA  TEXAS DaWflj —Donald R. Harris, '58, 4225 Glenwood, Dallas 5, Texas. El Pojo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Oll^'ia Circle, £1 Paso, Texas. Houston—Robert F. DilJon, '48, 9418 Winsome Lane, Houston 42, Texas. Midland-Odessa — John L. O'Hem, '37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. RIO Grande Valley—RohcTt Aziz. '49, 1205 W. Elizabeth St., Bro»rtisviJ(e, Texas. San Antonio—^William E. Lamm, *32, 321 Eleanor Ave, San Antonio, Texas. UTAH Don J. Roncy, '58, 320 East Fourth, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. VIRGINIA Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Blanton .\vc., Richmond, Va. TideiixKer—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wedgeuood Dr., Norfolk, Va. WASHINGTON Spokane—Dr. James P. Rolchford. '49, West 115 9th .Avenue, Spokane 4, Washington. Western — Frederick N. Hoover, '43, 2814—40 Ave., W., Seattle 99, Wash. ^VEST VIRGINU Thomas E. KenncU, '56, 1007 Bel­mont, Charleston, W.Va. Central — John D. Julbn, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W.Va. IVISCONSIN Fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, '56, 1137 W. Lorain St., Appleton, Wise.  Northwest WiseOMsim—Ben M. Siri­anni, Jr., '60. 229 McKinley Ai-e., Eau Claitr, Wise. South C^nirol-Bernard S. Mixtacki, '50, 5400 Flamingo Rd., Madison, Wise Southeastern — Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21 St., Radne, Wise. WYOMING Patrick H. Mrenan. '49, Midwest BIdg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wjti. FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, Moreau House, 28 Zin­dah:*haV Larle, Dacca, East Pakistan. Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Chaiest Blvd., Quebec, Canada ChUe — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, Aven, Fedio de Valdivia 1423, San­tiago, Chile. £ca<a<<>i^John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. GermoKf — Charles' A. Hickman, '53, Schellingstrasse No. 81, Munich, Germany. MttmHa — Conrado Sanchez, Jr., '54, 83 Mayoa St., Quezon City, Phil­ippines. Mexico City—Telmo De Landero, '37, Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico Gty, Mexico. Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Box 3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. Peru—Enrique Lulli, *45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. Puerto Rtco — Paul McManus, '34 (Vice-Prts.), Calle Eaile No. 4, Condado, Santuree, Puerto Rico. Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34  
*57, 124 Prestwick,Ohio.   Youngstown,  Black HiOj—Bernard Gira, '10, Cus­ter, South Dakota.  Cr«7i Bay—Robert W. Schaefer, '33, 2522 Martha St., Green Bay, Wx.  (Secretary), Palazzo Btancacdo, Largo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy.  

The Vcr>- Rev. James J. McGinley, prcs, of Catholic League in pass receiving, followed in a Canisius College, addressed the Buffalo Club and long line of illustrious winners from the Catholic their families at our annual Communion Breakfast League. at the Hotel Lafayette, on Universal Communion One of the first to greet the Rockne Aiv-ard win­Sunday, Dec. 8. ^Iass was first celebrated by our ners of 1963 was BILL PFEIFFER, who was the Qiaplain, RE\'. FRx\NCIS B. BAROTTO, assistant 1959 award winner. Bill, DON HOGAN, TOM 
Clubs 

pastor of St. Louis Church. Chairman for this, our GOBERVILLE and Captain BOB LEH^LANN were most important event of the year, was D.WID S. on hand for the big sports dinner. BRUCKER. JACK McMAHON '55 represented the 
JOHNN'Y LUJACK, who has been calling the 

Akron board of directors. 
signab over TV in recent years, was the main Elections were held in June. Xcw olHcers for 
The Annual Notre Dame Christmas Dance was speaker at the Rockne dinner, aad he bad ample the coming vcar arc JIM MURPHY '53, president; again successfully sponsored by the alumni, the support from such former teammates as GEORGE ED BUTLER 'GO, Vice-president; JLM DETTLING Campus Club, and the alumni wives. It was held CONNOR, ZIGGY CZAROBSKI, MARTY WEN­'61, secretary; and JACK LANGE '54, treasurer. at the Buffalo Trap & Field Club on Saturday, DELL and BILL FISCHER, who presented the 
Dec. 28. Dr. and Mrs. Rx\LPH J. ARGEN were trophies to the award winners. Each of the win­The annual scholarship draiving this year ivas co-chairmen. Tliev were assisted by: Mr. and ifrs. ner's schools will receive a large, trophy for display for four tickets to the Syracuse game in New York PAUL D. BALLING '53, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. during tlie next year, City for four people for four nights, JOHN A. 
lA DUCA '36, Mr. and Mrs. FR/\NCIS J. GAG-
Co-Chainnan ED M1ESZKOW5KI and KEN DETTLING '21 was the fortunate winner. 

LIONE '39, Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. CVSEY '44, 

SCHUSTER did a bang-up job in making arrange­Saturday night, Dec. 21, was the night of the and THOM.AS F. KENNY III '65. 
ments for the Rockne dinner. JACK QUINLAN, at the Sheraton Hotel with TOM B0T2UM '50 Spring activities include an election meeting in the voice of the Chicago Cubs, had the crowd as Chairman. Fcbruar>', a Foundation meeting, and our annual forgetting the team record with his rapid-fire gags. 
.Annual Scholarship Ball. This year's dance was held 
retreat in ^^arch. Other speakcfs included FATHER JOYCE, COACH — JIM DETTLING '61, Scc>-. 
— JAMES F. CVSEY '44, Secy. HUGHIE DEVORE and ED "MOOSE'* KRAUSE, who presented a monogram jacket to HUGH 
Boston MULLIGAN SR. Others who worked long and The Annual Noire Dame Communion Breakfast 
Chicago hard on the Rockne dinner were PHIL FACCENDA, was held at the Red Coadi Grille on De c 8. 
Certainly hope that you were among the 800 in former Club president and newly elected head of Mass was celebrated at Holy Cross Cathedral by 
the International Room of the Conrad Hilton last the national Alumnt Association, JOE ARCHI­MSGR. CORNELIUS J. DONOVAN. Rev. Joseph 
December to hail the 1S63 Rockne Aivard nominees BALD, TOM CAREY and DAN GIBBS. 
— the outstanding group of athlete-scholars in the Chicago area. This year three awards were given 

E. Manton CSsR, famous radio-TV lecturer, de­We abo hope you were among the several hun­livered a stirring- message ivcll salted yviih his dred who turned out for the Club's annual Com­matchless wit. munion Breakfast on Jan. 12 at Old St. Mary's 
in order that a boy from the suburban area, as well as the Catholic and Public leagues in Chicago, 

Church and the Sheraton-Blackstone Hotel. BISH­
could he honored. 

OP ALFRED MENDEZ CSC of Arecibo, Puerto Buffalo The winners, as chosen by the Chicago prep Rico, gave the Club members, their wives and 
PATRICK F. KANE '58, prcs. of City Planning tvrilcrt, displayed outstanding athletic ability, above-guests a current report on the Church and her Assoc., East, presented an explanatory film, and average leadership qualities, and superior academic work in Central and South America. Bishop gave a most interesting talk on urban renewal at records. AI Koranda of Hinsdale won the first Mendez, one of the most active bishops In this sec­our Nov. 7 meeting. FRANK FORGIONE '49 was suburban Rockne Award. Royce Spencer u'as the tion of the world, appealed to his Notre Dame Dir-in-Charge, and HARRY A. QUINN, JR. '49, winner of the Public League Rockne. Award trophy. family to take a deeper interest in the work of was chairman of this meeting. Dick Carmignani of St. Philip's, who led the the Church to the South. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 19 
JACK CLARK u-as dialrman of the Communion 
Breakfast and his ucH-planncd cfTort helped attract 

one of the largest crowds in recent years. 
Instead of its annual St- Patrick's Party, the 

Ladies Auxiliarv- \(-orked long and hard on a special 
*'kickofr' party. Tlic committee secured the new 
Hotel Continental for March 2. One of the fastest 

moving programs of this or any other year was 
assembled for the gala dinner party. One nice 
thing about a Ladies Auxiliary- party — it 3lu-a>-s 

is full of excitement and surprises — and this year 
was no exception! Many thanks. Girls, for pro­
moting another successful party and donating the 
proceeds to the Club's scholarship fund. 
All 1963 Rocknc Award nominees received hand­

some certificates. Eacli boy and his coach were 
guests of the Club at the dinner. Nominees in­
cluded: Tom Pcma. Bremen; Lee Swank. Wau­
kegan; Martin Berg, Riversidc-Brookfield: Phil 
Major, Rich East; Tom Russian. Reavis; Cal Lewis. 
Maine West; Scott Simpson, Maine East; Rcnard 
Thomas, \'ocationaJ; Larrj* Ssmpsoa, Bogan; Ted 
O'Xcill, Gage Park: Fred Simon, Tildcn; Dan 
Stack, Lindblom; Bill Zielke. Harper; Bob Xakos, 
Kelly. 
^farlin Emer\', Englewood; Wesley Greer. Dun­

bar; Paul Bach, Prosscr; Greg Sebuck, Brother 
Rice; Bernard Badkc. Leo; Bob Gora, Joliet Cath­
olic; Ed Kas[rawicz, DcLaSalle; Casey Mitcliell, St. 
Rita; Pat Ormsby, Mendel; Ken Kmicc, Mt. Car­
mel; Ralph Montgomcr>', Marshall; Carl Lithander, 
Stcinmeu; Dan SzakonyJ. WcHs; Tom Cygan. 
Roosevelt; Bob Green, Phillips; Dick Gottfred, 
Tail; Don Mazurkiewicz. Tulcy; Dan Falconer, 
Harrison; Joe Mcrcado. KeUyn; Bob Langc, Lane; 
Tom Baumgacrtcl, Lake XHcw; Larr\* H. Hybcrt, 
Bowen; Gary Shappel, Evergreen Park; Charles 
Lewis, Homcwood-Flossmoor, 
Tom Fagerson, Arlington Heights; Dennis Mc­

N'amara, Lcydcn East; Bill Conroy, York; Charles 
Baby, New Trier; Ernie Isby. Crane; Darrel Totli, 
Foreman; Mitchell Baleast, Farragut; Dick Palesh, 
Schurz; Dennis Totzke, Immaculate Conception; 
Terr>' Larson, Xfather; Bill Meyer, St. Procopius; 
Dick Fitchie, Si. Edward; Dean BartoHni, Marian: 
Fred Bucina, Holy Trinity; Dennis Coyne, Dc Paul; 
Glen Fctlcn, Weber; David Savin!, St. Patrick; 
Ron Rcckcmp, ^lartan Central Catholic 
Elmer Schclling, Marmion; Ken Babikan, Notre 

Dame; Tom Kriz, St. Mel; Emil Dcmko, St. 
George; Dan DJnello, Fcnwjck; Sic»'c Quinn, Loyola; 
Courlne\- Shcvelson, Oak Park-River Forest; Dave 
Smitli, Highland Park; John Wright, Whcalon; 
Dick Smith, Morion West; Ernie Sharpc, Carl 
Sandburg. 
Ted Cunningham, ^t'illou-brook; Dick Katzmann. 

Oak Lawn; Eddie Bruksch, Nilcs AVcsl; Van Delay, 
Lincolnway; Runo Anderson. Lyons; Mickey Smith. 
Downers Grove; Ray Phillips. Evanston; Dick Page. 
Glenbrook North; Joe Watkins, Parker; and .\rt 
Xewbrougli. Decrfield. 
Looking forward to seeing you at Universal Notre Dame Night In April. Start talking up a table now so that we can make this year's an even bigger success than the 1963 dinner, whicli was the largest alumni get-together in the history of the Universitv. 
— PAUL FULLMER *55, 1st AHce-Prcs. 

Cincinnafi 
The University of Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati held their annual Communion Breakfast on Dec. 8, 1963, at Our Lady of Cincinnati College. REES LA BAR '53 was the chairman of the event and the Club participation i^-as ver>' good. 
The events that arc being anxiously awaited are "MOOSE" KRAUSE*S visit in February- and then the annual Spring Dinner-Dance with TOM IS­PHORDING '57 as chairman. 
— PAUL F. KELLEY '54, Secy. 

Connecticut Valley 
Tlic club obser\*ed its annual Communion Sunday on Dec 13 with a Communion supper at the Golf Club of Avon. The supper followed an evening Mass at the Cathedral of St- Joseph in Hartford. 
The guest speaker was Msgr. James A- Connelly. superintendent of sdiools for the Archdiocese of Hartford, who outlined for the club members, their wives and guests the problems involved in federal aid to education with particular emphasis on the justice of the demand that Catholic schools be included in any such program adopted by the federal govemmcnt­
^DO X FOSKETF, Secy. 

Denver 
The winner of our annual scholarship award, BILL DURLIN, turned down a $5,000 scholarship 
BOSTON—^Breakfast observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday featured 
(I.-r.): Tim Toomey '30, national alumni director; Msgr. Cornelius Donovan '09, chaplain. William Stcuart, guest; J. Harry Marr '37, chairman; Rev. Joseph P. Manton, guest; and Cornelius Fowler '47, Boston Club p'residenl. 
at Santa Clara to take our small one and tlic sev­
eral others that we were able to obtain from the 
Utiii-ersity administration. 
TOM CURRIGAX, ND '41 was elected mayor 
for a four-year term of the City of Denver on June 
21, 1963. Wc arc all certainly proud of Tom, who 
has been a past president of our local Club and 
has ^vorkcd very diligently in the last sct'eral years 
with me on our scliolarship committee. I think he 
will be a terrific mayor as he is a terrific guy. 
This city \vill have much to gain by his election. 
Tlie Chief Justice of the Colorado Supreme 
Court is ALBERT T. FRAXTZ '29. He is well 
known, especially in the South Bend area where he 
Worked for some years after graduation. I believe 
that his wife is a native there- He worked in Denver 
as a Iaw>'cr for many years, was president of our 
Club, became a Denver district judge and then was 
elected to the Supreme Court. 
Wc are quite proud of the activities of alumni in 
this state. 

Wc arc quite pleased to sec that we now have the chief justice of the Supreme Court and the mayor of the largest city in which one-half of the state's population is concentrated. The new man­ager of parks and recreation is JOHX'NY DEE *52 who is welt known as a basketball coacli and coached at Alabama as well as Notre Dame before coming here. Within the last tv%-o weeks JOHN MORAN Jr. *52 was appointed to the State Legisla­turc-
We arc most busy Jicrc whh plans for next year's visit of the football team to the Air Force Academy—1st time in this area for the team. Wc hope to get some money for our scholarship through various activities such as a package bus trip, lunch, 
s:ime ticket, etc; perhaps the student trip may he 
here. A committee headed by JIM HELGER is busv on the arrangements; it includes JIM COUGHLIN, prcs., JOHN DEE, V-P; GERRY SMITH, who went to ND on this trip alone and who is Foundation ciiairman, and mysclf-
JIM HELGERf the treasurer, is a comer — came here about four years ago and is most active- He and I arranged the Club Picnic at a community swim and recreation center I founded and he put on most of the golf outing with Coughlin and Dee. He was also in charge with Coughlin of the sports luncheon on Oct- 21, John Dec, toastmaster-
DON SE.ARS won our expense-paid trip from here to X'D for the UCLA game on the Burlington RR special train-
Wc also held a Xmas dance which w-as for both the students and alumni. 
The local sponsor of the ND radio games gave us free spot announcements several (3-4) times each game for our scholarship and ND in general. This plays up ND in our area. I hope to talk at Regis College to the Prc-Law Club about ND soon. JOHN COYNE, an alumnus of ND, is a dean at Regis CoIIegc­
— CARL EIBERGER 

Des Moines 
"The Notre Dame Club of Des Moines, in co­operation with local members of the press and radio fraternity of Des Moines, held an apprecia­tion lunclicon honoring Bert McGrane, veteran^ 
sports editor of the Des Moines Register & 
Tribune. The liincliron was hcid at the Kirktt-ood 
Hotel. Des Moines, on -Vovember 20. 1963. 
CHARLES aALLAHAX appeared in behalf of 
Notre Dame and presented Mr- McGrane with a 
monogrammcd blanket. Members of the Club in 
attendance included: 
MARR WOXDERLIX, JIM BOESE.\, BUD 

BEH, BOB BEH, LOU KURTZ, ED POSXER, 
JIM SHAW, GEORGE PFL-AXZ, JOE JOYCE, 
BOB VALESTIX, HAROLD KLIXE, BILL 
KLINE, JOE ZUEXDEL, CLEM SCHXOEBEL­
EX, JOHN STARK, JOSEPH WHALEX, FRED 
XESBITT, JOE CASEY, TONY CRITELLI, and 
local President PAUL HIDE, who was the master 
of ceremonies. 
— AXTHOXY M- CRITELLI, Sec%-. 
I) 

Erie 
Tlic Annual Sotrc Dame Communion Breakfast 

was held Dec. 8. 1963. The ND group went to 
Communion at St- Peter's Cathedral and then 
journeyed to the Kahkwa Countr>- Club for a 
tremendous breakfast. The main speaker for the 
affair was Father Louis Puscas of Gannon College 
here in Erie. The annual award for the best high 
school and grade school football player was given. 
Gar>* Dance of Erie East High School and Thomas 
WIsniski of St. Luke's Grade School were the 
recipients. 
Among those who attended were: Messrs. 5: .Mmcs. JOE BARBER '36 (and three children). BOB BARBER '40, HERB KERX '54. RICH^,, McCORMICK '55. JOHX .McCORMICK Sr." (Honorary '17), JOHX McCOR.MICK Jr. '53, JERRY QUIRK (Honoran.- '17), BILL x\MAXX' (and son Bill Jr.), H. L. SCULLY (Honoran,­'38), ROBERT WESCHLER (and two daughters). LOU SHIOLEXO '49, ROBERT FARMER, LEO BRUGGER Sr. '34, TOM BATES '60 and JACK YOUXG '51­
Also present were: Judge S: Mrs J.AMES DWYER '37. Dr & Mrs A. J. DcSANTiS and guests, TOM YOUXG, JOE BLAKE '61, LEO BRUGGER Jr- '61- JACK BERTGES (Honorarv '17), AMADO CARAXDAXG, JOHX LOCHTE­FELD '55, JACK PALMISxVXO '55 and guest, MIKE McCORMICK '61, and DR TIM ROCHE­
— LEO J. BRUGGER Jr., Sec>-. ^n. 

Evansville 
The annual summer picnic was held last August at a priv-atc recreation area north of E\-ansvilIc, complete w-ith fish-stocked lake, club house and various athletic facilities. The event was well at­tended. While the Club's vice-president. JOE HAR­RISOX, was futilcly attempting to attach a fish to the end of his fishing line, President P.AT O'DAXIEL and Secretary AL HARDING char­coal-grilled choice steaks. DOX HALLER was crowned king of the washer-tossing contest while .\frs. BOB HARGRA\^E d^played uncanny luck with the bingo card. Last vear's secretary*, CHARLES M.AXIOX, "took Iiome the bacon" 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus^ FehTuary-Marchj 1964 
f) 

ivhcn his final bingo card won him the remaining 
unprepared steaks, f Due to some last minute scheduling problems the ^annual Communion Breakfast was held on Dec 13 
instead of Dec. 8. Once again the turnout was ver>* good and those attending thoroughly enjoyed the program. Fr. James Dcnecn was the guest speaker and his subject was "Federal Aid To Education.'' starting with a history of court de­cisions followed by recent legislative enactments and proposals as well as an application of ad­\-antages and disad\'antagcs of federal aid to our own diocesan school system. Fr. Deneen b cur­rently the Superintendent of Diocesan Schools and subsequent to ordination at Innsbruck, Austria, in 1954 received a master's degree in education from Catholic U. There was an active qucstion­and-answcr period following the presentation. 
| k An announcement of Jan. 18, 1964, as the date of the annual holiday dinner-dance was made. 
— AL HARDING, Scc>-. 

Fort Lauderdale 
Another fine year has ended for ibis club, and as wc look back over the many activities \vc have had it is gratifying to note the wonderful co­operation given us not only by our members, but by the University also. 
Xominations were held in November for the 1964 officers and directors. Wc were happy to sec that over 90% of our regular members cast bal­lots. Tlie following is the slate for the coming ^vca n President, BOB McDONOUGH '52 (1963 ^secretary); Vice-President, BILL MOTSETT *54 
(1963 director); Secretary, GEORGE PATTERSON L'58; Treasurer, TOM WALKER '42 (I96I presi­dent) ; Directors, FRANK McDONOUGH '41 (1958 president and Man of the Year): JOHN McGINN '54 (several years officer and director); Returning Directors, BOB GORE JR. *31 (presi­dent, 1948, 1931, 1933 and Man of the Year in 1948); CHARLIE QUINN JR '34 (1963 director); Ex-Officio Director, DON DORINI '53 (1963 president). .\s you can see wc have a good deal of cvpcricncc on our list and wc arc looking for­ward to another fine year. 
Universal Notre Danic Communion Sunday was very well attended and following Mass held at St. Pius X Church wc gathered at the Coral Ridge Yacht Club for a wonderful breakfast. The speaker was C. Clyde Atkins, a prominent attorney, presi­
§: dent of the Diocesan Council of Catholic Men and Chairman of Bishop Coleman F. Carroll's Committee on Catholic Education in America. Mr. .Atkins gave a wonderful talk outlining the \-arious views and needs on Federal Aid to Education. 
Coming up is our January* Installation of Of­ficers and Directors. Februar>* will see our St Valentine's dinner-dance, and March brings St Patrick's Day (called by some the Irish New Year) — this is always a favorite of all our members and one of the best-attended functions held throughout the year. 
The Second International Convention vvill be held April 24, 25 and 26 at the Lucayan Hotel at Freeport, Grand Bahamas. Already we have had overwhelming interest in this year's trip. BILL 
I^MAUS JR. '53 is chairman of the event in con­junction with the Palm Beach and Miami Clubs. Prices will be about $118.00 per couple for the three-day and two-night festival. Air transpor­tation, hotel accommodations, most meals, cock­tail party — all this and more are included in the initial cost. Last year more than twenty-five clubs from all over the countrx* were in attendance 
— from the number of reservations wc already have wc feel that this ycar*s Convention will sur­pass all expectations. Remember, anyone inter­ested in attending »riic to BILL XLAUS JR. 53, Chairman, Notre Dame Club Convention Head­quarters, 100 E. Los Olas Boulevard, Fort Lauder­dale, Fla. Reservations are limited, so uTite now and join the fun. DON DORINI '53, our Club prcsi­
• dent, has receiwd word from FR. HESBURGH that cither he or FR. JOYCE will be in at­tendance. Anyone in doubt as to how much en­joyment you will have just ask ED *'M0OSE" KRAUSE! Moose said that he had never enjoyed a weekend like that in his life and said that it it were humanly possible he would be back with lis this year. Welcome aboard. Moose, we arc all looking forward to being with you again. In­cidentally for those who would like to come early or stay longer Bill has arranged for the additional da>-s at very reasonable rates. ALL CLUBS ARE INVITED TO JOIN US, so make up a party and have the time of your life. See you aboard the fishins boat — or on the first tec — or maybe at pool side. 
— BOB McDONOUGH '52, Scc>*. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY—Communion supper in the Hartford area last Dec. 15 featured (I.-r.)i Roger Tremblay, Club treasurer; Bob McGoldrick, president; Very Rev. Msgr. James A. Connelly, archdiocesan superintendent of schools and principal speaker; and Lou Cola­vecchio, vice-president. 
Fort Wayne 
On Sunday, Dec. 8, the Club met for Mass and Communion at the MacDougal Blessed Sacrament Chapel in Cathedral Square. FATHER HAM­MO.VD said the Mass for the Club. The .Mass was followed by breakfast at the Hotel Keenan. 
— D.\N CiVSTRO, chairman 

Indianapolis 
On December 8 the Indianapolis Club held the 
annual Communion Breakfast at the beautiful new 
Clowes ^^emorial Hall on the .Butler UJ campus. 
BILL S.AHM '51 was chairman iissistcd bv 
CHARLIE WAGNER '54 and BEN KOEBEL '48. 
The principal speaker was FR. PAUL WENDEL 
CSC, who gave an excellent tallc on federal aid 
to education. 
BILL SMITH '65 also spoke and extended an invitation to the alumni to attend the annual Christmas dance at the Indiana Roof Ballroom, sponsored by the Campus Club on Dec. 28. 
Next project on the chib calendar is the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night obscr\"ance. which will be in charge of BILL .McGOWAN '57. 
In March, however, the Notre Dame Glee Club will be in town for a concert sponsored by the Latin School of Indianapolis, a high school for young mcti interested m a religious vocation. Many alumni will attend, since wc all enjoyed the most recent appearance of the Glee Club here in 1962. 
Finally, we are all pleased that our president. Judge JOHN RYAN '41. has thrown his hat in the ring for the Republican nomination for lieutenant-governor of Indiana in the 1964 election. This should be of special interest to the other ten alumni clubs in the State of Indiana. 
— WILLIA.M D. STUHLDREHER '53, Secy. 

Kansas City 
In celebration of Universal Communion Sunday, the Notre Dame Club of Kansxs City held its Mass and breakfast at Notre Dame De Sion Frencli Institute on Dec. 8, 1963. With the co­cbairmen, UARRY LeROY and BILL NOYES, there were fiftv ncoole in attendance for this family function. FATHER PAPIN, CSC of the Mission Band of Notre Dame was the chaplain for the event. A contribution to Notre Dame De Sion's building fund was presented to the Sisters of the Institute. DICK DUNN and TOM Mc-KEON, tuo ncu- members of the Club, were present at the Mass and breakfast. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club under sponsorship of a Rockhurst College student organization gave a concert at the College. Feb. 8. 1963. 
HENRY J. "BUD" .\LiSS.\(AN was recently appointed to the board of regents of Rockhurst College, Kansas City, ^^o. JOHN MASSMJ\N was appointed to the executive committee of the hon­orary board of directors. 
Tlie new president of the Notre Dame Founda­tion in the Kansas City area is DICK PREZEBEL. 
Notre 

Committee diainnen under Dick's direction are CHUCK O'NEILL, ED AYLWARD, MARTIN BUTSCH, BILL SHARP and CHARLES AYL­WARD. 
— a\R L B. ERFF.MEYER '51, Secy. 

Kentucky 
The year for the Kentucky Club is just about over. Nomination of a new slate of officers ought to be taking place this month, uittt elections to follow shortly. But before ushering in the new, let's recap the activities of ths past few months. 
At the October business meeting the membership was informed that the Club's donation to the re­cent challenge drive materialized as a book stack in the new library. Now tliat we've made our con­tribution to academic cxceHence, u-onder if we can help out in that "other" department? 
A new club function was unveiled last fall in the form of a football smoker during the regionally televised ND Michigan State game. BILL DOUGH­ERTY '55 handled the arrangements and provided a rousing afternoon for a good group of old and new faces at the Richmond Boat Club. It's amaz­ing how much a few drinking buddies can add to the enjoyment of watching a televised game. JOHN GRAVES '57 should get some kind of award for distance traveled. He came all the way from Lexington to join the group. Another newcomer was BOB POWRIE. Although the crowd was a bit smalt, the enthusiasm was such that we'll try and make this an annual affair. 
Our usual December 8 family Communion Sup­per had to be cancelled this year. Seems Sunday evening Masses are hard to find in Louisville. Religious activities chairman LEO BROWN *50 hopes to schedule a Communion breakfast early in 19&t as a replacement. 
Tliat pretty well brings us to the highlight of the social season, the Christmas Dance. BILL SHERMAN '53 organaed a delightful evening of dancing and socializing at the Brown Hotel Crystal Ballroom. TO^f MOR.AN 'frt, president of the stu­dent club, directed the decorating committee. Others contributing to the success of the evening were the rcser\-ations committee consisting of BOB \VILLENBRINK '49. LOUIE HOLLENBACH '37, and GERRY BOLAND '63. 
One final word of acknowledgment and thanks to ROG HUTER '40 for shouldering the unenviable job of distributing the block of tickets for the ND-UK basketball game. Seems every year Rog orders more tickets for the Club, and ever>- year he still runs out! Before long, we'll be sporting a cheering section here to ri\-al the ones in South Bend. (In sue, anyway; nothing can beat the field house crowds in the noise department!) 
See you all UND night. 
— JACK ZUFELT '57, Secy. 

Milwaukee 
CO.MMUXION BREAKFAST The annual Communion breakfast of the Mil­itaukec Club was held on Sunday morning, Nov. 24, 1963, at St. Charles Bovs' Home. Due to the death of PRESIDENT KENNEDY the affair was ver>- somber and subdued. FR. THOMAS Mc-DONAGH CSC, head of the economics depart­ment, gave a short message lliat was truly in­spiring and gave us plenty of food for thought. BRO. JOSEPH BERG CSC was once again our gracious host. Among those in attendance were: President TOM .MULCAHY, Vice President JOHN SCHLOEGEL, NED BALDUS, HUGH BRAUN, MABK PFAL­LER. HILL DOUCETTE, CHARLIE O'NEILL, NICK GRASSBERGER, CHUCK O'BRIEN and FRANK EATON. Bill Doucette won first prize with the largest family group in attendance — TEN! Keep up the good work Bill! CHRISTM.\S D.ANCE On Friday, Dec. 20, Vice-President SCHLOEGEL chairmanncd a successful Christmas Dance that was held in the Flying Carpet Lounge of the Red Carpet Inn. The decorations and music of Bobby Fisher produced a warm glow, in sharp contrast to the below zero temperatures outside. Even Santa dropped by with favors for all. Entertain­ment was exceptional in the person of Jimmy Mortell, as he gave forth with his Impersonations of Jimmy Durante. Had it not been for the in­troduction given him. all would have thought he was the real "Scbnozz." Tlie students present helped add to the gay touch as they did some '"dancing" that made the grads think of the da\'s when a nap on Saturday afternoon was unheard of. Among the alumni present were: NICK GRAS­
Dame Alumnus^ February-March^ 1964 21 
CHICAGO — Principals at the 1963 Rockne Award Duiner included (from left) John Lujack '48, toastmastcr; Hugh Dcvorc '34, head coach of the 1963 Irish; Hugh Mulligan, honored for his 33-year policy of summer employment for athletes; and Ed "Moose" Krause '34, University athletic director. .\t right, the award presentation involved (l.-r.) Ed Mieszkowski '46, Hinsdale fullback Allen Koranda. Morgan Park fullback Royce Spencer, Ken Schuster '49, St. Philip end Richard Carmignani and ND Club President Art Conrad '35. Koranda, Spencer and Carmignani were voted top suburban, public and Catholic scholar-athletes. 
BERGER, JACK BARXETT, JOHN SCHLOEGEL, 
CHARLES O'.VEILL, JI.^J SUTTER, CLEM DE­
VLVE, DAVE DEVIXE, DE.\.\IS LANDRY, 
LANCE EHRKE, RICK GRLNILER, FRANK 
EATON, TOM HUBER, TOM -McNULTY, BOB 
JOHNSTON, DAVE MURPHY, DAVE ROEMER, 
CHUCK O'BRIE-V, KEN TRUDEAU, TO.M 
HERMAN, JOE MESEC, TO.M MULCAHY, 
DICK EHR, TOM VEACH, BILL DOUCETTE 
and ED TROY. 
Coming up on the sclirdulc of events arc: 

Sports Night Stag. St. Patrick's Day Party, Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night and the annual golf 
outinc. 
— DAVID L. ROEMER 

New Jersey 
Tlic annual Comniuniun Bieakfa^t of the Notre 

Dame Alumni of Xcw Jersey was held at Graulich's 
Restaurant in Orange, X. J., following the 10 
o'clock Mass at St. John's Cathedral. 
REV. JOHN E. AVALSH CSC, XHce-President of 

Public Relations and Development at Xotre Dame, 
was the guest speaker. Father \Valsh rcWe^vcd the 
challenge program and future University plans for 
the 200 or more alumni who attended the affair. 
.Assistant Coach GUS CIFELLI reviewed the 1963 

football season and discussed the outlook for next 
year. Following Coach Cifclli's talk he ans^vcred 
questions directed to him from the floor. 
Other honored guests were Rev. Robert P. Fgan, 

Director of New Jersey's Boyslown and Ricliic 
Regan, Basketball Coach at Scton Hall, 
Chairman ED BRODERICK '54 is to be con­

cratulalcd for a fine affair. 
— JAMES A. SEBOLD JR., Scc>-. 

New York 
An enthusiastic crowd filled the main ballroom 

of the Waldorf on Thanksgiving Eve for the Syra­
cuse game rally. Peter Lind Hayes was toastmaster, 
and BILL CUDDY '52 was chairman. Tlicrc was 
evident pride in welcoming a battle-scarred team, 
which week alter jarring it-eek, whh never a lull, 
had done heroic battle with the ver\* best in the 
nation. The day following the game a cocktail 
dance was held in the Waldorf's main ballroom. 
On Sunday, De c 8, the Club's annual Com­munion breakfast was held at the U'aldorf. Chair­man, BILL TALBOT '44 had secured Governor Ribicoff as principal speaker. The highlight of the breakfa^it was the au-arding of scrolls of recognition to five outstanding Club members who have long and faithfully labored for the Club and the Uni­versity: TOM BRADLEY '30, JOHN BURNS '31. 
JIM SPELLMAN '41, GUS HARDART '42 and OWEN MURPHY '15. 
— GEORGE P. KRUG '35, Secv. 

Ohio Valley 
Plans to hold a Communion Breakfast were out­lined at a dinner meeting on Nov. 12 at Ho%vard Johnson restaurant. BOB SINCAVICH '50 pre­sided. BILL MITSCH '33 was named chairman of 
the arrangements eommitlcc consisting of GUS 
V.^RLAS '47, BILL HOG.AN '51 and BOB SIN­
CAVICH '30. 
Attending the meeting were: BOB SINCAVICH 

'30, RUS RICKUS '34, GUS VARLAS '47, JIM 
DAILER '50, HARRY BUCH '53, BILL BUCH 
'39. BOB GRIFFITH '49, JI.M HARANEO '52, 
FRANCIS WALLACE '23, JOHN NIEMIEC '29, 
BILL HOG.AN '51, BILL MITSCH '33, CHUCK 
CREAMER and PAT De-MARCO. 
The Ohio Valley .Votre Dame Club held its 

Universal Communion Sunday on De c 8. Members 
and their wives attended Mass at Mt. Carmel 
Monastery at 9 a.m. Rev. Hilarion V. Cann 
celebrated the Mass and offered it for the in­
tentions of Notre Dame alumni. 
Breakfast was served at the Betty Zanc Room of \Vibon Lodge, Oglcbay Park. Tlie following at­tended: Rev. Hilarion V. Cann, Mrs. Edna M. Sincanch (Bob's mother), Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT SLVCAVICH "50, Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT GRIF­FITH '49, Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H.ARAN20 '32, Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS WALLACE '23, Mr. and .Mrs. SYLVESTER DOUGHERTY '29, Mr. and Mrs. 1»TLLIA.M -MITSCH '33, JOHN NIE.MIEC '29, WILLIAM HOG.\N '51, GUS V.ARLAS '47, HARRY BUCH '52 and GEORGE SARGUS '28. 
A short business meeting followed the breakfast. 
— BILL MFFSCH '33, Secv-Treas. 

Oklahoma City 
Our picnic last June was held at a nearby 

amusement park, Wedge»vood Park, wh'icii was in 
the national spotlight when it was picketed briefly several weeks following the picnic. We had over fifty people at the affair, and the caterer did everything up right. Tlicre were baseball, horse­shoes and the nearby amusements for entertaining the group. It u-as pretty hot, but as we look back from today when it is below freezing the hot Weather seems a bit inviting. Tlic final picnic ar­rangements were made bv the two ex-bachelors GENE SCHXirr and JI.M DASCHBACH. 
Our next venture was a TV football party at a local motel, the Guest House. This was ar­ranged by D.4N KELLEHER '56 and was held on the afternoon of the ND-Sianford game. It was well attended and there were several out-of-tou-n guests including J.\CK SEXTON '54 from Dallas, Tex. The group had a ver>' fine time. 
The annual XD Communion Breakfast was held at the Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club on tlic Feast of Our Lady, De c 8. JACK NASHERT w-as chairman and master of ceremonies for the day and did a fine job. It was an unusually successful function. FR. DAVE MOXAHAN of the local Catholic High School spoke on the established subject matter and gave it a ver>- pleasant and in­formative treatment. AH present were most en­thusiastic about the whole affair. Father Monaban was made a member of the Xotre Dame Club of Oklahoma Cit>' as he graduated from the old .Alma 
Mater ^vith a master's in education this past 
summer. 
Our last event for the year 1963 was a Christmas 

Dance held on Friday, Dec. 27, at the Twin Hills 
Golf and Countrj* Club. Music was played by a 
popular local band, and JIM DOWDLE '55 and 
J. T, PHILIPS '61 were the cliairmcn. With their well-known, locally anyhow, talents we all had a fine time. 
.A new slate of officers has been nominated for the next two-vcar period and thcv have been elected to office. J.ACK NASHERT, bA.V KELEHER, JOHN HOBB5, and W.AYNE CURRAN are the elected officers as president, vice-president, secretar\% and treasurer respectively. 
The Oklahoma City Xotre Dame Club is having very good attendance by the parents of X'otrn|­Dame students, and we would like to take thi"-' opportunity to say thanks for their support. We really enjoy their company and look fonvard to their continued jotning-in at our functions. 
— JAMES M. DASCHBACH JR., Sec>-. 

Omaha-Council Bluffs 
The annual Corporate Mass and Commtinion lor members of the Notre Dame Club of Omaha and Council Bluffs wa; offered in Our Lady's Chapel of St. Cecilia's Cathedral on Saturday morning. Jan. 11, 1963. Guests at the breakfast following were Coach JOH.VXY JORDAN and members of tile University basketball squad, vvho played local Creighton U. in Omaha Saturday evening. .\ blocl^ of seats was reser\-cd for Club members. theiiT ' families and friends. Pres. JIM BUCKLEY made the arrangements. 
— BOB DUNN, Secy. 

Palm Beach County 
The Notre Dame Club of Palm Beach County held its annual Christmas Party on Dec. 17, 1963. The members in attendance were Mr. and Mrs. D.ANIEL DOWNEY, Dr. and Mrs. JAMES COONEY, Dr. and .Mrs. BERNARD O'HARA, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DELL, PAUL .McDERMOTT, Mr. and Mrs. ROME HARTMA.N JR., Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HOWLEY, Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES 
F. QUINN JR., Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HOEY, JA.MES DOWNEY, EDWARD D . LEWIS, JACNf i DE M.\RCO, and Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP D. ~ LEWIS. 
During the meeting an election of officers was lield. DANIEL DOWNEY was elected president, and JOHN HOWLEY w:is elected secretar>*-trcas­urer for the forthcoming year. 
— JOHN W. DELL, Secy.-Treas. 

Peoria 
Please remember in your prayers Colleen O'Hara, the wife of BILL O'HARA *50 and Joseph Kraft, the father of WILLUM KRAFT '66. 
The Peoria Notre Dame Club had a cozy little trip to Champaign to see the basketball loss to 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
• Illinois Dec. 14. Club Prcs. JACK POWERS i *53 led 25 quiet gentlemen and many of their ^Aadies into the rowdy Illinois 6cld house (a ta.\­
^>aycr's nightmare) filled with 14,500 IIHni fans. Though wc lost the game, we upheld the Notre Dame image in the best of tradition and spirits! The staid and steady performance of JIM SCHERER *52 was reassurtns to the rest of us. Tlianks to Tom Zoskey and Frank Murphy, good ND friends, for their help. JIM McCOMB '54 kindly provided ample parking for all of our cars. \Vc hoped that revenge would be ours with a victors' in the Chicago Stadium Xeiv Year's Eve, 
but it was not to be. 
The successful Communion Breakfast was held again at Sacrc Cocur Parish in Creve Cocur. No­tably present were the CHUCK PERRIN '51 and 
flBILL CL.\RK '47 families. Chairman JOHN ^LEVIN '60 did hb usual fine job. Wh y wcrcn' t you there? 
Dues for the 1963-19&t vcar arc now being ac­cepted by Club Treasurer PAUL SCHWEICKERT '54. Look fonvard to a proposed trip to the Chicago Stadium for the Bradley game February* 22. 
—RICHARD C. BENKENDORF '60. Secy. 

Quad Cities 
On Universal Notre Dame Conmiunion Sunday Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. O. ^fcAulifTc celebrated Mass for area families in the cliapcl of the Kahl Home 
^o r the Aged in Davenport. W Nfsgr. ^fcAulif^e, superintendent of schools for the Diocese of Davenport, was the guest speaker at the breakfast ser\'ed in the dining room of the Kahl Home ittcr Mass. His talk gave us all a fresli insight on the position which Catholics may lake on federal aid to education. ROGER NOLAN JR. was chairman and toastmastcr. 
LEO HERBERT '27, prominent Rock Island, 111., attorney, passed away suddenly on Dec. 6th. His son Leo Herbert Jr. is a senior at ND. TIic ND men and their wives gathered for a special rosary at the Wheclan. Funeral Home. 
—R. C. "BOB" CORy.\, Pres. 

Rochester 
On Sundav, Nov. 24, TOM KEEGAN '60, JACK 
f
iUFFEY '35, DO:^ BOOTH '49 and PHIL YAW­L\N '62 represented ND in the annual "College Day" programs at .Aquinas Institute and McQuaid High Scliool. 
High salesman PAUL PARKER '49 chaired the annual scholarship ticket drive. The Downtowner Motel bar was the scene of the drawing made by Pies. JIM DOYLE '51 who at first read his own name. Upon cries of "fix," inspection showed that THOMAS J. MEAGHER '36 won the Syracuse game tickets and weekend in New York. GENE MYLER pleaded to be next year's chairman but was told he'd have to get in line for the job. Much talk and reminiscing followed. At 2 AM, DICK KLEE '47 and JIM DOYLE were the last to leave. 
Cardinal Mooney High School was the site of 
• he ND Communion Breakfast on Sunday, Dec. 8. Jhairman was VIC DeSIMON '46. 
DAVE MILLER '55 headed another gala Christ­mas Dinner-Dance held Saturday, Dec. 28, at the University Club. Again It proved to be the most popular event of the year and it was good to >re so many undergraduates attending. 
Scheduled events after this writing Include the annual business meeting in February* and a possible St. Patrick's Party. "MOOSE" KRAUSE appears here in March with JOHN CASEY '55 as chairman. 
TOM FENLON '57 would like anyone who has a new "elephant joke" to give him a call. He wants a trunk full. 
—J. DAVID SAMUELSON '60, Sec>-. 

^ome, Italy 
Our Vatican II guests were: Bishops Tliomas Manning OFM, Bolivia; James Schuck OFM, Brazil; Bernard Flancgan, Worcester, Mass.; Robert Joyce, Burlington, Vl.; Joseph Dougherty, Yakima, Wash.; A. Escalante, MM, Sle-tlco; M. Harrington, British Columbia, Canada; Wm. Murphy CSsR, Brazil: Wm. Power, Antigonish, No\'a Scotia, and John McEIency SJ, Jamaica. West Indies. 
Club's Pride: FR. ED HESTON CSC '30. chap­lain, headed "Englishing" language section of Council Dress ofHcc; now o(T "ivin" retreats in .•Urica. FR. BERNARD MULLAHY CSC '33, assbt­ant general, celebrates 2oth sacerdotal anniversary', and FR. BERNARD RANSING CSC '31 rests at Mayo Clinic after successful surgery. 
FORT LAUDERDALE — Thirty-one active members turned out for the annual Club picture with Fr. David Heffeman (front row), diocesan radio-TV representative, known to viewers of all faiths in South Florida for his inspirational programs. 
Our Pilgrim Pad: Son of JIM FORREST '34, mother of JIM PRICE '56. FR. J. PURTELL, superior general, Edmonditcs (postgrad), BRO. ELLIS GREENE CSC '44 (returned to faculty, XDI School). BOB LEONE '60, GREG CONRON '57, LEONARD CALL '51 and wife, friend of .MSGR. TO.M TOBIN '20. aunt of ED DO.VAG­HUE '6fi, sister-in-law of ED KEE.VAN 'H, JOE KINNEARY '28. GENE RYA.V '33 and wife, ENS. CLYDE HIGHTOWER '51. ENS. DEN.NIS MAZURKIEWICZ '63, LOU CAVANAUGH '53, FR. ROBERT PELTO.N CSC, FR. L»\NE KIL­BURN CSC. 
Specialties: GERALD FITZGIBBON '09 and two Dominican Fathers, brothers of BOB SHOCKEY 'fil and PETE KELLY '61. 
Pilgrim Pointer: NOTRE D.\ME HOSPITALITY CENTER in Rome is open all day, every day, from early to late, .•\ddress: Largo Brancaccio 82. Tel.: 
730.002. All reasonable rational beings and well-behaved beasts \vclconieI 
—VINCE .Mc\LOON '34, Secy. 

Spokane 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane with wives and friends observed Universal Com­munion Sunday by attending Mass on Dec. 8 at Our Lady of Lourdcs Cathedral. With a record-breaking turnout they breakfasted in the Arcade Room of the Ridpath Hotel and listened to a ver>' interesting and informative talk by Patrick Kreiner, lay theologian. 
The following members were present: ED BETHKE '28, REMI DUBUQUE '63. PIERRE HIROU '62, FRANK HAGENBARTH '27, FR^VNK HERRON '35, DR. CURR.AN HIGGINS '49, EL­.MER JOHNSTON '23, TOM L/\LLY '06, DR. BOB MAHER '35, JOHN P. O'NEILL '29, DR. JI.M ROTCHFORD '48. DICK ST. JOHN '56, RALPH SCHULLER '57, VINCE SL.\TT '43. BERNIE SMYTH '55, BILL WOLTER '35, and JOE U'ALSH '14. 
After the Communion Breakfast plans were made for the annual Holiday Parly, held at DICK ST. JOHN'S home on Dec. 27. Students home from the University for the holidavs were guests of the Club. 
—JOE WALSH, Sec>-Treas. 

Youngsfown 
We had our Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast on Sunday, Dec. 8, 1963. The topic, **Federal Aid to Education," was ably discussed by MSGR. WILLIAM A. HUGHES, who got his MA in 1957 from Notre Dame. Thirty-eight alumni and their sons were well informed by Msgr. Hughes who is the principal of Cardinal Afooncy High School of Youngslown. 
It was freely admitted afterwards that many of us had been afraid to discuss the subject be­cause we were not informed of the whole situation and, more importantly, of the Church's position in the matter. 
—CHARLES B. CUSHWA HI, '56, '61, Secy. 
L 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME BY 

Sending a personal contribution 
Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the University 
.•\dvising ND Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving' 
Informing University of your cor­poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest 
Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the Universitj- as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION 
NOTRE DAME, tNDIAX.\ 

i\'otre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 23 
McCaffer>- Co., an electrical appliance wholesale '58, a daughter, Ann Marie. November 26. 
LI. and .Mrs. THO.MAS a B.ARTHOLO.MEW 

distributing firm. His brother, Joseph J, '11, also \rith McCafTery- Co., died In June. His sur\ivor|. 
.Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. BORLIK '59, a son, 

Include his ^vlfe, a son, a daughter, ttvo sistcn.lL. 
Steven Robert, October 6. 

and a brother, Clarence. 
Mr. and Mrs. JACOB A. DVORAK '60, a 
JAMES J. CLARK LLB '23, Lafayette, Ind., 
daughter, Mary Dolores. 

Classes died July 26 at Hines Veterans Hospital. His wife 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Monique Claire Passonno and RICHARD BUTLER CUNNIXGHAM '37. Miss Dorothy Helen Gallagher and JOHX BUCK CO.VNELL JR. '39. Jliss Dolores Annette Daniels and VICTOR H. MARAGM '39. Mrs. Kathleen Marv- Dunham and KEVIN CHEEVERS SMITH '39. Miss Kathleen Helen Fishel and WILLIAM HENRY .McCULLOUGH JR. '39. Miss Denisc Tavlor and JOSEPH PATRICK JLARTLV '60. Miss Xardinc C, Tomambc and JAMES J. DWYER '61. Miss Helen Marie Cahill and ER.\EST S. ZA­VODNYIK '61. .Miss Bonnie Gay and Lt. RICHARD FOLEY '63. Miss Mar>- .\nn Darabach and MARK L. HER­MANN '63. Miss Norcen Carol Papier and RICHARD H. M.ACK '63. MUs Susan Lee Williams and JOHX STEPHEN SRXEC JR. '63. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Virginia Elizabeth Trossen and DR. CHARLES MICH.AEL LLNSE.\MEYER '52, Cleve­land, O., November 16. 
Miss Mildred Lee McAdams and ROBERT J. SECHOWSKI '52, .\otre Dame, October 26. Miss Kathryn Ann Leber and DONALD P. BEDEL '54, Mascoutah, 111.. December 28. Miss Grctchen Rauch and DR. JOSEPH F. COL­LIGAN '54, Notre Dame, November 30. Miss Helen Janet Varlej- and DANIEL J. BURKE *55, Yotmgstou*n, O., September 22. Miss Dorothy J. Canevaro and JOHN KNOWLES PROBST '56, San Francisco, Cal., December 28. 
Miss Virginia Christine Small and DR. JOSEPH A.NTHONY McMAHO.V '37, Queens, N.V., No­vember 23. 
Miss Mary Colette Murray and J.AMES H. D.AILEY '58, Burlington, loii-a, July 20. Miss Linda Roof and WILLUM N. SHEEHAN JR. '58, Lakeu-ood, O., September 14. Miss Barbara Marie Malek and ALLAN ANDREW CHONKO '60, Cleveland, O., September 14. 
Miss Judith Eva Seuell and USMC LT. JOSEPH FRANCES COOPER '60. Baldwin,, L.I., N. Y., November 2. 
Miss Shiriey Anne Bill and JOH.\ MICHAEL GAMBLE '60, South Bend, Ind.. December 28. Miss Maureen Daly and JOSEPH -M. KRUPP '60, New Yorli, December 28. 
Miss Maureen Anne O'SuIlivan and GERALD PATRICK LALLY '60, Fairfield. Conn., Novem­ber 30. 
Miss Elizabeth Ann Hammer and ROBERT JOHN McCLOSKEV '61, Poland, C , August 24. 
Miss Noreen Cecille Blakemore and ENS. JAMES EDWARD FITCH '62, Youngstown, O., October 26. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. BARISCILLO JR. *44, a son, George A- IH, December 9. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. TALBOT, '44, a son, Patrick Moore, November 1. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. VOLL '48, a son, October 20. .Mr. and .Mrs. W7LLLA.M J. GALLAGHER '50, a daughter, Maureen Sheila, October 13. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. RUETZ '50, a son, Micliael, December 19. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. FINK '53, a daughter, Tlierese Rose, October 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. McNUXUS JR. '53, a daughter, Catlierine Mary, November 2. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. aAS.\SANTA JR. '55, a son, Joseph John III, August 23. -Mr. and Mrs, JOHN W. BRENNAN JR. '56, a daughter, Mary Frances, December 6. -Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. KEGALY '56, a son, Paul Joseph, June 27. 
SYMPATHY 
WILLIAM F. O'HARA '50, on the death of hU wife, November 23. RAYMOND WATSON '50, on the death of his mother. November 23. RICHARD J. B.ASGALL '52, on the death of his father, July, 1962. RICHARD F. .ASH '54, on the death of his lather, November 28. GEORGE A. '54 and WILLL\M D. PFLAU.M '61, on the death of their fatlier, November 18. ALFRED A. KAELIN '55, on the death of his mother, October 26. 

T. GAVIN KING '53, on the death of his father, October 4. FR.ANCIS ,M. KAUFF.MAN JR. '57, on the death of his father, June 7. JA.MES L. KINNANE '57, on the death of his father, August 15. JA.MES H. SCHjiAF '59, on the death of his mother. LEO.VARD G. DeLOZIER JR. '61, on Uic death of his father in October. DAVID M. EDELMUTH '61, on the death of his father, July 5, 1962. JOSEPH E. BILLIARD '62, on the death of his father, September 28. DONALD P. COUCH '63, on the death of his father, Mav 21. 
GEORGE Q. EVANS '63, on the death of his mother, October 27. 
DEATHS 

p. AVILA McPHILUPS 1893, honorary chairman of the Board of John Gcrbcr Co., Memphis, Tcnn., died August 30, according to \«'ord received from 
his y*-ile. 
ALEXANDER P. MacDOXALD '01, died October 1, according to word received by Fr. Harold Riley,' pastor of Sacred }{cart Church, Notre Dame. 
REV. JOHN A, DEVERS »n died In Holy Cross House on campus November 5, one day after his 83rd birthday. '52-'53 he was at Columba Hall and since '57 he has been retired. Sur\*ivors include two sisters and a brother. 
JOSEPH J. McCAFFERV SEE '11, EE 'IG, owner and president of a wholesale electric com­pany in South Bend, died of a heart attack at his summer home at Diamond Lake, Cassopolls, Midii­gan. Survivors include his wife, two sons and two daughters. 
REV, JAMES F. McELHONE CSC 'II, associate editor of the Ave ^faria magazine published by the Holy Cross Fathers at ND, died November 22 at St. Joseph Hospital. His Immediate survivors include one sister and one brotlier. 
JOSEPH A. O'NEIL '12 died October 23 accord­ing to word received at the AtumnI Odice. 
\VILLLAM .M. GALVIX -14, retired US.VR cap­tain, died of a stroke In his home at Chevy Chase, Md., November 9. A former Information staff adviser to the Social Security Administration, lie had been associated with them since their founding in 1935. Survi%*or^ include his wife, two daughters, a son and a sister. 
REV. FREDERICK ^f. GASSENSMITH CSC *17, an ND faculty member until retirement last fall, died December 9 In tlic Students* In[trmar>-. Fr. Gassensmith is survived by six brothers and four sisters. 
EDWARD J. ROGERS '17, member of the Ad­visory Council for Science & Engineering at ND and former president of the Milwaukee N^D Club, died suddenly in his home in Wauwatosa, Wis., October 26. He w-as active In veteran, civic and athletic groups. He Is survived by his wife and a brother. 
SR. M. EUNICE RASIN AB '19, PIiB '29 died October 21 at the Sisters of Charity Mother House, Nazareth, Kentucky. 
BERNARD J. McC\FFERY *22, former South Bend Water Works superintendent and postmaster, died December 27, in St. Josepli Hospital after an extended Illness. He had been active In political, ciWc, fraternal and religious groups and at the time of his death was secretary-treasurer of the sur\-ivcs him, 
JOHN W. GLEASOX *23, Woodsficid, Ohio, 

died November 14 according to word received from 
his daughter. 
BRO. MAXIMUS CZVZEWSKI CSC '24 died October 12 at Holy Cross House, ND. Bro. Maxi-mus retired last year after teaching In 1901 in South Bend and then more than 35 years in Chicago. He had been In III health for about sue months. 
REV. DONALD S. GALLAGHER '24 is dcceasciCl according to word received at the .Alumni OSice. 
EDWARD A. FALLON '26, Occanslde, N.V., died November 9, according to word received at the Alumni OHicc. 
WILLIAM C. DAVIS JR. '27, died according 

to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
PAUL E. FALTER '28 of Columbus, Ohio, passed 

away November 24, according to word received at 
the Alumni office. His sur\'ivors include a brother. 
DR. GERALD B. FITZGERALD '30 died Sep­tember, 1963, according to word received at the Alumni Office. 
ANDREW J. KATA AB '31, LLB '33, dad unexpectedly at his home in New Britain, Conn.|Q November 3, after reluming from Mass and a Communion breakfast at his parish church. He was a former state senator and a former police and city court Judge in New Britain. 
ROBERT S. MEASER '34, editor of the Amherst Bee» WlUiamsrille, N.Y., succumbed to a heart attack on October 23. 
FRANK E. MESSINA '34, chief examiner of New York City's Bureau of the Budget, died sud­denly November 29. He ivas a member of the ?iD Club of New York. Survivors include his wife, daughter and a son Francis J. now attending ND. 
CHARLES J. NOVAK '35, Hamburg, N.Y., dropped dead .-Vpril 20, while playing golf waiting for his son to finish dasses at Penn State so that the family could have a reunion. He Is survived bv Iiis wife and tu-o sons. ^ 
CARL F. ESSER PhB, '35 died January 3lfJ 1963, according to word just recently received In the Alumni Office. His wife survives him. 
HARRY W. BERNBROCK '38 of Quincy, III., died suddenly of pneumonia March 3 according to word recently received from his wife. He w-as vice-president in charge of public relations for the Quincv'-Pcoples Savings & Loan. During his school years he received many athletic awards. He had coaclied high school and CYO basketball teams. At the time of his death his grade school team was undefeated, ^fr. Bembrock w*as also active In various business, civic and religious groups. 
REV. FRANCIS CUNNINGHAM OP '39 died according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. ^,­
NICHOLAS J. SUTTON '43 passed avray Octobe* ' 10, at Mercy Hospital, Dubuque, Iowa, according to word received from his wife. 
BERN.ARD A. O'CONNOR *44 passed away a year or so ago according to tvord recently received in the Alumni Office, 
M. JAMES PHI.MISTER '47 died suddenly In December, according to word received at the Alumni Office from Joseph A. Ncufcid '43. His uife swr­vivcs him. 
THO.\L\S J. MCDONALD *49 died of a hi-ari atuck November 6, in Ravenswood Hospital, Chi­cago. At the time of his death he was sales director of the Edgcwaler Beach Hotel and previously had been manager of the Pick-Congress HotcL He is~. survived by t«o brothers, PHILIP ^V. JR. '47 anlj^) John J. 
GLENN P. MENHENNET M9, former Fort Col­lins, Colo., attorney, died in November at a vet­erans hospital after a long Illness. He w'^s active In religious, fraternal, veterans clubs and the ND Club of Denver. He Is survived by his wife, seven • cfiifdren, his parents and a sister. l 
THOMAS W. STUBLER JR. '54 died In Sche-| nectady. New York, of acute leukemia in December, i according to classmate Romano Mazzoll. Survivors include his wife and three children. 
2/Lt. LEONARD J. UROSE '59 was killed in : a plane crash December 23. Survivors include his wife and parents. 1 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
50-YEAR CLUB 

' On Dec. 19 REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER CSC '99 celebrated an uniisual jubilee at Holy Cross House on the campus — the 60th anniver­sary* of his ordination to the priesthood. A native of Chicago, Father Matt got Jiis .-NB degree before the turn of the century and w-as ordained by Cardinal Gibbons in 1903, the same year he won a degree in theology from Catholic U. Taking a Ph.D in 1903, he returned to ND where hu taught philosophy for four years and served for 12 as director of studies during a period of great aca­demic growth. Fatlier Sdiumacher, among other things, installed a summer session and was elected president of the Catholic Education iVssociation's 
kcoUcge department. From 1919 to 1926 he was the flrst president of St. Edward's College in Austin, Tex., and he later served as president of St. Tliomas College in St. Paul, Minn. For about 30 years before his retirement he had been chaplain at St. Mar>"'s College across the highway. 
Sadder news of other priests of Holv Cross. REV. JOHN A. DEVERS CSC Ml died list Nov. 5 in retirement at Holy Cross House after nearly 50 years as a priest at Xolrc Dame and cliaplain for several institutions of the Holy Cross Brothers. REV. JAMES F. McELHONE CSC 'U died Nov. 25, hax-ing been an editor of the Annals of Our Lady of Lourdcs, associate editor of Ave ^fa^a, a teacher and author of several books since his 
I ordination in 1916. And REV. FREDERICK GAS­
'SENSMITH CSC '17 died in December. S>Tnpathy to their sur\*i\-ing relatives and many friends. 
Harvest came for laymen among the scmicen­lenarians too, including delayed word on A. P. MacDONALD '01, who died in Duluth in October, and JOSEPH A. O'NEIL, who died October 23 in East St. Louis. Sympathy to their loved ones tm>. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1914 Subject: Golden Jubilee REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-H 1964 
14 Walter L. Clements Tower Building South Bend, Ind. 

CLARENCE J. DERRICK, who fifty years ago resided In Oil City, Pa., is now a long-time resident of Los Angeles, Cal., where as a consultini; struc­tural engineer he specializes in ascismic design — 
REV. AfATTHEW REV. JAMES F. SCHUMACHER CSC McELHONE CSC 
that is, the construction of buildings so they can endure earthquakes without too much damage. From all reports he has reached the top in this imique profession, whidt is quite important for those who reside on the AVest Coast. He h a veteran of both llic first and second World Wars. 
Since 1955 he has been a lecturer at the U. of Southern California, but recently resigned from that as well as his membership in the American Geophysical Union because, as he says, lie be­longed to too many things and the area was becom­ing too broad. 
He has been engaged in so much activity since the short time he worked for South Bend Cit>' Engineer Moore after graduating in '14 that, as a specimen of what one man con do in his chosen profession, wc arc copying a biographical sketcit taken from a professional publication. Here it is: "American consulting Structural Engineering (Aseismic Design); Lecturer Ascismic Design, Uni­versity of Southern California since 1955; b. 1893; educ. University of Notre Dame; C.E. 1914; m. 1924, Blanche Marie Dessmier. Private practice. Consulting Structural Engineer since 1924; scr^-cd in World War I (1st Lieut. Corps of Engineers) 1917-18, and World War H (Captain, Air Force) 1942-45; Commissioner (and President), Los Angeles City Board of Public Works, 1946-50; Director: Los Angeles City Building Code (1940-42) and Territory of Guam Building Code (1953); Member: American Society of Civil Engineers, 1935; Seis­mological Society of America, 1929; American Geaph>-sical Union, 1947;" (Founder) "Structural Engineering iVssociation, 1929; Registered CiWI and Structural Engineer, California, 1930; Hon. mem­ber, Chi Epsilon (Civil Engineering Fraternity) 1955. Publications: Damage Potential of Earth Shocks (1954); Elements of Aseismic Design (1955); Aseismic Design by Distortion Analysis (1956) and 1957). Address: 2021 Kenilworth Avenue, Los An­geles 39, Calif., U.S.A." 
Clarence is the first one of the '14 Class to report his doubt of bcing^ able to make our fiftieth reunion in June. His only complaint is a slight deafness from working on 50 cal. machine guns in WWII, but he hasn't had time to apply for a pension. 
m' 
tVfLM 

From the .Alumni Office: Tlianks to both CLYDE E : BROU5SARD '13 and JOHN RYAN '32 for their quick infonnalion on the death of WILLIAM M. (BILL) GALVIN at his Chev>- Chase, Md., home in November. A retired Na\'y captain. Bill was born in Texas and supplemented his ND degree with a master's from Indiana U. and an LL.B from Texas Lau* School in 1917. He was an Army officer in ^VWI, trans­ferred to the Na\y and scr\-cd in WWH with the Escort Carrier Force, Pacific Fleet. Bill had been with the Social Security Administration since its establishment in 1935. Sympathy to his wife and sister, three children and 12 grandchildren.' 
'15 Albert A. Kuhlc 
117 South Sunset Ave. 
La Grange, HL 

From the .Alumni Office: 
Secretary ALBERT KUHLE reported himself hos­pitalized and recuperating from surgery. We wish Al a speedy recovery, meanwhile presenting a di­gest of material he fonvarded from rcph'cs to a re­cent mailing. 
A note in the fall to "Friend Al" from ALVIN BERGER in Sturgis, Mich., reported that "the wind is blowing cold and soon wc will go South again. In summer I keep busy on garden and lawn and of course do a little fishing and hunting. 
"Will be looking forward to seeing you in June, 1965, and reviewing those fond memories of long ago—hax'en't played fan-tan since." 
From ROBERT L. ROACH, formerly president of Roach & Musser Co., Muscatine, Iowa: "Have been wanting to write 5*ou for weeks but just have not been able to do so due to the illness of Mrs. Roach. .. . I spend practically all of my time with her. This ordeal, of course, has been quite trying on me too, as I have not been in the best of health.'* The prayers of alt classmates are requested for Mrs. Roach's recovery. 
Commenting on Al's fine reunion letter. Bob con­tinued: *'I sold out my insurance and investment business several years ago and have been on a semi-retirement basis since then. At the present time (to keep me out of mischief) I am chairman of the Board of Tnistccs of Mutcatine General Ho^ital (a 130-bcd ,dcal).. Am. also a. director.. oL the-.Ccntral State Bank of Muscatine. Until a few months* ago I was ND Foundation governor for Iowa for about seven years. I resigned recently for health reasons. . . . \Vc sold our Roach & Musscc plant several years ago. At the time I was general manager. Re­gret to report that the buyers, Bruce Co. of Mem­phis, lost money on the purchase and have liquidated the business." 
Bob requested a list of "what B left of the good old 1915 gang.** We'll try to oblige trith a list to everybody by next summer. 
W. E. (BILL) KENNEDY wrote fiom Owensboro, Ky.: "I am well past retirement age but am still active as president of this company (Southern Tank Sa Mfg., Inc.) along with many ciWc activities. I 
••?:-% 
Chicago American photo 

MINIMS circa 1913 got together in Chicago for the Golden Jubilee of the first football game with Army on the eve of the ND-Navy and Army-Air Force contests. Grade schoolers of that era and their guests included: (seated, l.-r.) Judge Norman Barry, Maj. Charles Crowe and Lt. Col. Everett Post of the West Point public information of&ce, Thomas F. Mullaney and Morton Stet­tauer; (standing, l.-r.) Eugene J. Carroll, John A. Muldoon Jr., Paul L. Mullaney, Jeff Barry, George Barry, John J. Bowen, Jr., Ernest Fumasoli, Henry D. Klopfer, .Monroe H. Loeb, Al Zengeler, Michael McDermott, Perry Koehne, Gerrard McDermott, Heartley 
(Hunk) Anderson and Andrew J. Sullivan Jr. St. Ed's Hall vets recalled Dorais-Rockne passes baffling the Cadets 35 to 13. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-Match, 1964 25 
5cr\Td as president of the local Cliauiber of Coiii­
mercc in 1963 and am chairman of the board at 
present. I am a regional member of the Kentucky 
Highway Commission Advisor>- Committee. Have 
been chairman of the local Airport Board lor 13 
years. , . . Enjoy a couple rounds of soil each wect. 
Lately it seems the holes are getting farther apart 
or my drives arc getting shorter. - . . Have a 
daughter and son both living in Indianapolis, Ind., 
six grandciiildrcn ranging from 6 to 16 years of 
age-• . -" 
JOE KEXNEY, Berkley, Mich., was brief: "I am 

retired and plan to attend the 50th reunion." So 
was WILIARD V. HALLAM in Lakeland, Fla.: 
Working. Ser\ed in WWl & II as CPO, US Sa\y— 
trips to Europe, So. America Si Caribbean Islands—• 
US trips coast to coast—one child, married—three 
grandcliildren." 
Frpm WILLIAM J. MOOXEY. JR. '57, carr>ing 

on with the wholesale drug firm of Mooney-Mucllcr-
Ward in Indianapolis, came word of his father's 
death three years ago, noted here before but not on 
the list of Secretary Kuhle. Another son, Michael 
'56, is now Fr. Padraic OFM. Remember Bill in 
vour pravcrs. 
Finally,' there was word from JOSEPH A. MEYER 

in Cincinnati that he feels he should be listed witli 
the Class of '17. So be it. 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to tlie president 

at ND, received the 1963 Cardinal Newman award, 
has written a new book (Unesco: .Assessment and 
Promise) and recently authored an article printed 
in all diocesan papers on problems of intellectual 
freedom «'ithin the Church conSront'ms the ECH­
mcnical Council. 
• | * Grovcr F. Miller 220 9th Su Racine, Wis. 

From the Alumni Office: Loretta McCafrcr>-, widow of tlie late JOSEPH JAMES McCAFFERY, wrote in with some of the details of her husband's death last June. Joe died in his summer home at Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, ^tich.. of acute coronary* thrombosis. A Na\y ensign in \V\VI, he bccaine owner and president of the McCafTerj' Co.. a wholesale electric firm in South Bend. In 1919 he married Loretta PouHn of South Bend, who sur\-ivcs with four children; Joseph Jr., general mgr. of tlic McCaffcry Co. in South Bend; James R., San Maico, Calif.; Mrs. Donald U'caier, Tucson, .Ariz.; and Mrs. Robert Ward of South Bend. The familv was doublv bereaved with the death of Joe's brother BERNARD McaAFFERY '22 in December. Mrs. McCafferv- lives at 1205 Foster 
in South Bend. 
• | y Edward J. McOsker 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, III. 

From the Alumni Office: 
Tlie '17 news h mostly sad this ouiinii. 
Funeral ser\'ices were held on the campus Dec. 11 for REV. FREDERICK M. G.ASSENS.MITH CSC, veteran rector, pre­fect and teaclier of mathe­matics. With degrees in thcoIog\- and math from Catholic U., Father Gassen­smith was a parish priest in South Bend while get­ting his degree at XD and later taught at the 
U. of Portland, Ore. Ex­cept for a year of study at Catholic U. and two years of teacliing at St. Edward's U., Austin, Tex., he taught at ND from FR. CASSENSMFTH 
1919 until his retirement last fall. Sympathy to his sLx brothers and four sisters (two of them Dominican nuns) from his classmates and many friends. 
REV. PHILIP MOORE CSC '24 represented FATHER HESBURGH at the funeral of EDWARD 
J. ROGERS in Mihvaukcc, Oct. 29. Founder-presi­dent of Layne-Northwest, a water well drilling firm, and a member of the Advisory Council for the Colleges of Science and Engineering, Ed died of a heart attack on the previous weekend. He was also a founder and former board chairman of Laync-Bowler Corp., Memphis, Tenn., drilling equipment mfgr. affiliated with Layne-Northwcst. Descendcnt of a pioneer ^Visco^5in family, he was a director of several companies, a WWI veteran, licensed 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 
pilot — and a former president of the ND Club of Milwaukee. Sincere sympathy to his wife Wilma and his brother Leo. 
II Q George Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, 111. 
Vc Old-Tiiners — if you really want the "red 

carpet'* scr\'ice visit the campus on just an ordinar>­
day. Let Jl.M ARMSTRONG '25 and JOHN 
L.AUGHLIN '48 know you are there; out will come 
the "carpet"' and they will start selling you once 
again on how great the School is — taking you 
through the new buildings and making you wish 
thai you could come back and live it all over 
again. 
Tlien go over to Corbv Hall and visit with 

FATHER DOREMUS. HcMI be delighted to sec 
you and walk your legs off going over the campus. 
Father will also let you know that you did not 
"pull" anything that he and "KING" FARLEY 
did not know about. Perhaps you never left the 
campus without permission, coming back through 
one of the "working" subway windows. Remember 
we called it *'ski«ng." 
Don't know how I missed writing that I had a 

grand bull session with JA.MES P. LOG.AX —an­
other track man — who is living in Denver and 
looking great. Jim toured Europe bringing back a 
foreign car. He Instructed me to be sure and re­
member him to REV. C. J- WILLIAMS, SHER­
WOOD DIXON and GEO. HARBERT. 
I'll never forget %vhat a kick Fr. Williams got from the remark I made at a bull session — when I stated that FRANK RYDZEWSKI was president of the Holy Ghost Society. "Big Frank" tells us he has been president of the Holy Name Society for the past 20 years. 
It was at this reunion bull session that PETE 

RONCHETTI asked Frank on what Hall team did 
he play, Tliat did it, the ceiling fell in. 
Recall going to luncli at the school cafeteria with WALTER R. MILLER in his white hat and $75 shoes. Coming to the table with his tray I asked him what he was eating. You'd have to have him tell you to believe it—Iamb stew. Walter, "Big Frank" and I were roommates for a term In Sorin Subway. Those were the days when Walter wouldn't say a dirty word even if he had a mouth full of muck. He still is one grand guy. 
MAX KAZUS visited his sister in Chicago and gave mc a buzz. We had a great time going over the old da>*s. Max is retired and looking great and is not asking anyone for a benefit. 
Have corresponded with JOH.V J. VOELKERS, who was constantly at the reunion in WILLIAM 
J. ANDRES' company. We are going out for lunch after the holida>-s. Still have to contact such other 1918'crs in Chicago as EDWIN T. BREE.N\ CARL 
F. EIGELSBACH and THOMAS J. O'MEARA — will tr>* and have a report on 'cm next time. 
Trust that Commander CHARLES CALL —who is now getting that Florida tan — contacts ERNIE "STUFF\'" BURKE in Orlando. He's not hard to locate; ask anvonc who owns the "Loop" in Orlando. Hope he has \vord from THOMAS H. KING and from the cliairman of the board of the General Industries Co., .ALLAN W. FRITZSCHE, also PETE NOONAN and JOHN A. LEMMER. 
C^VRLETOX BEH said when I sa^v him that I should be sure and contact VINCENT C. GIBLIN as he is a BIG man in Miami Beach. Trust that the Commander gets a cliancc to see V.C.G. 
Sincerely hope that evcr>'onc is making plans to visit ND this summer and get tuned up and in the spirit for 1968. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1919 
Subject: 45th Anniversary 
REUNION 
Weekend — June 12-13-14 
1964 
Theodore C. Rademakcr 
•19 Peru Foundrj- Co. Peru, Ind. 

From the -\lumni Office: 
PAUL FE.\LON, having succeeded MAURIE CARROLL on the national Alumni Board, pledges 
1964 
an all-out drive to help TED RADE.MAKER sur­pass the 1959 reunion attendance on the 43lh anni­versary June 12-13-14. His slogan: "More than fouH in '64." 
Janies H. Ryan 
•20 170 Maybrook Rd. Rochester, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: Detroit's ALFRED RYAN wa-; seen by many at Irish contests during the past football season, al­though his visits are seldom to the Alumni Office he founded 40 years ago (and wouldn't recognize this spring). 
(
*21 ^^" ^^'' ^^^ 
101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 

With no recent word from JUDGE DUFFY, we presume he continues to be ver>' busy as Cuyahoga County Democratic chairman since being named by the committee to succeed retiring R.AY MILLER '14 last summer. 

G. A. "Kid" .Ashe 
•22 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester, N.Y. 
( 

From the Alumni Office: Still "working on the railroad" and more on the move than ever, KID .ASHE took time to send the office New Year's greetings which he obviously wished to have forwarded to the entire Class. With FRANK "RANGY" MILES as national president of the Monogram Club In the year of the big push for an .Athletic Center, it's got to be a great year for '22. 
•^ ^ Louis V. Bruggner 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Ind, 

Four men of the class of 1923 have died since our 40th reunion last June. Latest was JUDGE | JOHN GLEASON of Cleveland and environs, who died Xovcmber 14 of cancer. He leaves only a daughter, his wife having preceded him in death. 
JAMES J. CLARK, Calumet City, Ind., died in Hines Veterans Hospital July 26 following a short illness after his suffering a fractured hip in his home. Complications were given as the cause of his death. He leaves a widow. Amalinc, in Calumet Cit>' and his sister and mother in his birthplace, Lafayette. Ind. 
THO.MAS KEATING and \LVCE a\\^i\NAUGH are the other two decedent Classmates, whose deaths were previously reported. 
REUNION ECHOES , .At the Reunion wc sent letters from \*arious '^ Classmate groups to absentee men. One to PIO XONO MONTENEGRO I .=ent by registered mail to Bala>*an Batangas, Philippine Islands. The return receipt was signed "Peter C. Montenegro" as agent. "The list of signatures you sent me from our class dinner will always remain among my most prized possessions" said JOHN .MONTAGUE in his reply to the mailing wc sent him. ". . . m\ arms and hands are still shaky . . . but the news from the doctors was wonderful. They hope to get me back on the job in the fall. . . . It's a small world . . . had two of finest doctors in Chicago but they called In another doctor for consultation and it turned out to fac JI.Nf ST.ACK, '26, the old ND quarter-miler." j. 
M.AIL FRO.M '23 ME.V, A TO Z CONNIE ALT: (July) On a postcard from Lake Louise, Canada, "Wholly by acddent we met and arc now travelling with PAT GRANFIELD, ND '23 and his wife through Alaska and Yellowstone." GUS DESCH: (June) "Thanb very much for the greeting from our 40lh reunion . . . greatly appreciated. .. . I must e.\ercbc discretion In its relation to my activities and health, \%'hich explains my absence from the reunion." LOUIS deSMET: (September) uord from JACK NORTON indicated Louis was grandpa again, his daughter having had a girl, her seventh child. ARTHUR DIEDRICH: (July) sent me a letter he had received from a former South Bend man In the electrical industr>' who had moved to the Philip­
pinc3> Before this man left town he and Art had 
discussed MARIANO DONATO, a Filipino class­mat e Art hadn't heard from in years. Art gave me ^ letter received from his friend and I quote in 
part: *'I was able to contact your friend here. His address is 253fi Arellano .-^vcnuc, Manila. He called on me here at the hotel this morning and \vc had quite a visit. He said he would write vou." 
LOUIS NAVIN and JOSEPH W. NYIKOS (July) spent four cents and five minutes, (which they split 50-50) lo send me a post card, postmarked Mitchell, S. Dakota: "Stopped here and had a nice visit with Louis Xavin. Joe" "We did have a good ^sil, tho it was loo short. Joe called me at 9 a.m. and I was due in court at 9:30. Going to the N.Y. Fair next year so hope lo see you then. Lou Xavin." 
1^ CLIFF WARD: ". . . In May I had a reunion 
"of my own with at least one classmate. . . * On a visit to California to relatives wc were met by FRANCIS NEITZEL and his wife . . . spent four happy days in that vicinity and then returned with the Xcitzels for a week in Boise . . . fishing . . . Xeitzel also hoped to attend the reunion but a wedding in his family conflicted. So it goes." Later, a note in July: ""You may be interested in the flattering write-up of yours truly which is enclosed. A lot of it isn't true, but who cares. Sincerely, ClifT.'* The write-up was in the Indiana Publisher and devoted more than a column, with pictures of ClifT, to the thesis "Mr. Hoosier Editor Is Apt Title for Fort Wayne's ClifT Ward." Forty years 
^o f association with the same newspaper . . • one 
Pof nation*s best-known newspaper editors . . . force­ful and fearless approach . . . middle of the road conservatism. . . . 
From the Alumni Office: X'D's Religiotrs Bulletin recently tiuoted an article on "'Obscenity and the Supreme Court" in The Critic for Oct.-Xov., 1963, written by Judge ROGER 
J. KILEY of the US Court of Appeals of the 7ih District. Roger also had a piece entitled "Obscenity and the Courts" I'n the Oct. I issue of New City. 
Don't miss the pictures of PcruWan Ambassador FERNANDO BERCKEMEYER in this issue. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1924 
Subject: 40th Anniversary REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-14 
1964 
^^A James R. Mcchan ^• t 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Btndf Ind. 

Fnmi the Alumni Office: Unlisted in the last issue was the death on Oct. 
- 12 of BRO. MAXIMUS CZYZEWSKI CSC at Holy 
P Cross House on the campus. Brother Maximns got hi-. AB with the Class of '24 even though he had bL-en with the Congregation of Holy Cross since 1897 and had started teaching at South Bend's St. Hedwig School in 1901. He had taught at Holy Trinity High in Chicago for 55 years when he retired last year. Born in Poland in 1881, Brother left several relatives in the South Bend area, in­cluding two Holv Cross nuns and a nephew, FRANK CZYZEWSKI *23 of the South Bend Tribune, with whom he wrote a history* of South Bend's Polish community. S>-mpathy to Frank from Brother Max's imiior classmates. 
•9 C John P. Hurley 

I A9 2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
GEORGE VERGARA, former reform mayor of Xcw Rochelle, N.Y., and now a member of the City Council, recently gave colorful testimony of his personal crusade against gambling in the New York suburb before the Stale Investigation Com­mission. 
On the home front. Executive Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG has not only branched out family-wise (a couple of granddaughters added to the atl­malc roster in the past year or so) but also pro­fessionally. Long known as the Georgle Jesscl of ihe Great Lakes area business and professional banquet circuit, Jim went international in Dec. 
CLASS OF 1928 officer change (from left), ^vitli New York's Bernard Garber succeeding Chicago's James Allan as president, is witnessed by continuing Secretary Louis Buckley and Alumni Secretary Armstrong. 
when he addressed the Belgian-American Business­men's Assn. in Mishauaka's Brocderenkring Club. His talk, very timely in the light of the Studebaker demise in South Bend, drew a parallel between athletic "de-emphasis" and business' public rela­tions tendency' to neglect those qualities which made it great. 
DON MILLER and JERRY MILLER arc shown with brothers Harr>', Ray and Walter this issue in the first gathering of the clan captured on the campus in many years. And JIMMY CROWLEY got a choice column from RED SMITH '27 which wc*ll quote next time. 
B^jr Frank A. Deitle 1763 Kcssler Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 

Word from the Alumni office that EDDY F.\L­LOX has joined the second hundred of that portion of our class that has passed on. Eddy had many friends and was well liked. May his soul rest in peace. 
This note from RUDY GOEPFRICH: "Last week when XcIIie and I were in Chicago, wc had dinner with the JOHN RYJ\XS. We enjoyed it a lot. JOHN told us that early in October BOB CAREY'S wife was hurt in an auto accident. 
"This week while passing through Cleveland, I called PAUL ABEL on the phone. He and his wife are well. Paul is semi-rctircd; he dabbles in securi­ties. He was sorr>* to ha%'c missed our last reunion, but was sick at the time, hopes to make the next one. 
"In Washington, I talked to WALTER TROHxVX on the phone. He was in Europe — Spain and Italy — this past summer. He is going to Mexico next week. He told me his daughter is going to Btienos Aires for two years to \vork in the Embassy there." R.A.G. 
On Dec. 28 DENNIS J. O'NEILL escorted daughter Susan down the aisle of St. Luke's Church. Lakewood, Ohio. Susan returned as Mrs. Michael 
T. Con^*-ay. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Secretary FRANK DEITLE also sent along this added bit of news on Class Prcs. Goepfrich. The Technical Board of the Society of Automotive Engineers Inc. voted to award Rudy a certificate of appreciation for his "outstanding contribution lo the work of the SAE Brake Committee." The award n-as presented to the Bendix engineering chief at a luncheon on Jan. 16 in Detroit's Cobo Hall. 
In December R.\Y DURST represented FATHER HESBURGH and Alma Mater at St. Xavier Col­lege, Chicago, on the occasion of the inaugural convocation for the new president, a master's and doctoral coed from ND named SR. MARY OLIVl.\ BARRETT RSM. (See '53 notes.) 
Also in December ARTHUR J. BIDWELL took a trip to Florida, apparently to escape a draft as Republican candidate for lieutenant governor of Illinois. According to the Chicago Trib Art pre­ferred to complete his term as president pro tern 
Notre 

of the Illinois Senate. Thus, at least for the next two >"earSj Senator Bidivell demurs lo.bc the Re­publii:an counterpart of SHERWOOD DDCON '20. who serwd as lieutenant governor under .Adlai Stevenson. 
'9 7 Clarence J. Ruddy 
* / 32 S. River Street Aurora, 111. 

From the Alumni Office: .-\ shy visitor to Chicago recently allowed that it wasn't eas>' for **a 140-pound weakling" to be­come the world's greatest writer on sports. *'I had an advantage," said WALTER WELLESLEY (RED) S^f^TH. "In addition to being little and nearsighted, I also was yellow. That's why I can appreciate what those big fellows do." Red was in Chicago for the kickoff dinner in a campaign for Mercy Hospital "because I went to Notre Dame at the wrong time," thus getting to know the general chairman, HOWARD V. PHALIN '28, who enticed him to speak. "What else could I do but say *yes'?" said Red. "He knows all about my sins when I was young enough to have sins that were worth while." He blushed frequently during an interview with Sim-Timcs writer Lloyd Green, un­accustomed to talking about himself. "I have the greatest job in the world. If 1 write a clinker one day, which I frequently do, I can alwa>-s try to do better the next day. If you write pieces for magazines, you can fret a bad one for a whole month." Once described by Ernest Hemingway as the nation's greatest newspaper writer. Red ad­mitted it takes two or three hours to turn out his daily dozen paragraphs (**I*m a slow bleeder; nothing comes easy"), but he doesn't think of himself as an author, even though a collection of his fish stories was recently publtshed. " I flinch whenever I see the word literature used in the same sentence with my name," he said. "I'm just a bum lr>-ing to make a living running a type­writer." 
GORDON WALKER, long working out of gen­eral deliver>' in Hot Springs, Ark., recently pur­chased a home at Route I, Box 118, DcLand, Fla., and expects to be reached there for some time to come. 
'9fi ^"^ ^- Buckley 
68-10 108th S t Forest Hills, N.Y. 

PAUL E. FALTER was stricken and died while re­turning from a Florida \'acation en route to his home in Columbus, Ohio. Paul had been employed /or many years as a bailliT In the Ohio Industrial Commission in Columbus. He Is survived by three brothers and a sbter. Our treasurer, JOE LANG­TON, arranged with FATHER ANDY MUL­RE.-\NEY to offer a Mass at the request of the Qass for Paul. I want to thank JOHN FONTANA and HUD JEFFERYS for advising me of this sad news. 
J.ACK CANIZARO, Class vice-president for the South, did a great job in rounding up news. Jack sees TROY BONNER once a week in Jackson. ^fis3., at a meeting for the church. Troy Is with the Mississippi State Highway Dept. He recently visited GENE O'BRIEN in Hopkins, Minn., where he is in the newspaper business. Jack gave me the first report I have had on ED CUNNINGHAM in years. Ed is still interested in the mortuary founded by his father in 1898 in Los Angeles — although because of health he has given up active work. Cunningham & O'Connor funeral directors have most of the movie clientele such as burying Clark Gable and Gary Cooper. They also have a place in West Hollywood. Ed and his wife live In Beverly Hills. Jack also reported on JIM COWXES who practices law In Shreveport, I,a. Jim has three chil­dren, the oldest Is at Ne^vcomb College. J.ACK CANIZARO also gave us a report on CHRISTIE FLANAGAN who operates Christie Flanagan & Co., stevedores and steamship agents in the Sabine Dis­trict of Texas. One of Christie's sons Is with his firm and the other is practicing lat«* in Houston. His two daughters are graduates of St. Mary's and married to ND men. 
FRANCIS MEYER has presented me with a com­posite set of wonderful pictures of our reunion. JOHN DAVIS also sent some excellent pictures to be added to those previously received from GENE FARRELL, JOHN SEFTER and AL DAVIS and to the great movie film made by JIM ALL.AN and his son. 
Our Class vice-president for the East, DR. DAN" BRADLEY, and his wife are going to run a clinic in Huehutenango, Guatemala, for the month oF 
Dame Aluninus, February-March, 2964 27 
Fcbruarv' for the Mar>'knoIl Fathers, Dan mentioned 
that VIC FISCHER and his soa had flinncr at 
Dan's just before Xlc look the boy out to start 
at Xoirc Dame. RE\'. HARRY RYAN '27 also 
visited Dan recently at Amiiy\'iIIc, X.Y. 
LES FLEWELLING, who received his M.A. with 
our Class, is with the Beneficial Standard Life 
Insurance Company and lives in Sunland, Cal. Lcs 
recently completed tliree years' prcsidcnc>' of the 
Sunland-Tujunga Democratic Club, a year as a 
director of the San Fernando Valley Xotrc Dame 
Club and five years as a member of the Trade 
Advisor\* Committee of the State Prison at San 
Quentin. Lcs has two children. Both Lcs and DOC 
DAX BRADLEY have Chinese girls living at their 
homes. 
JOHN BUSCHEMEYER, director, Louisville 
General Hospital, u-as unable to attend our reunion 
as he was recovering from a coronarj*. John has 
two daughters and a son who is at the U. of 
Louisville School of Denlistr>-. D.WE KREMBS 
teaches math in Stevens Point. VTis. He has three 
children. BILL HURLEY is in the insurance busi­
ness in Springfield, Mass. He has four children. 
GERALD LUDWIG, who is sales engineer for 
Henry Upjohn Co. in Kalamazoo, Mich., joined 
us on Saturday of our reunion weekend. He said 
his bum ticker prevented a longer stay. Gerald has 
two children. 
I talked to JOHN* FORGE when I «as in Omaha. Neb., in the fall. John has six diildren and fifteen grandchildren. He is still with Goodyear Tire Co. One of his daughters is an Ursulinc nun who tcaclies in Cumberland, Afd. He has a son a lawyer in Kansas Cit>' and another an engineer with Douglas Aircraft in California. DON ItAU is deputy commissioner of the Midiigan Department of Revenue in Lansing. Michigan. Don has three children and &vc grandclii'ldrcn. 
I note in the press where Federal District Judge GEORGE BEAMER was upheld and praised by the US Court of .Appeals in a major decision hold­ing the neighborhood schools policy of Gar>% Ind., to be constitutional. An item came across my desk at the office reporting on a talk by ROY MOCK, St. Tliomas College placement director, at a forum held on November 18 by the Minneapolis and St. Paul Chamber of Commerce, Ray is president of the Midwest College Placement Assn. GEORGE G. KELLEY had an excellent article on "Rights, Not Ratios'' in .America recently. I have found a num­ber of JOE BREIG's articles in Ave Maria to be particularly helpful. His analysts of "Tlic Bible and the Schools" in the September 14. 1963 issue, for example, is the clearest and most logical analysis I have seen on this subject. I note that Common­weal praised Joe recently for being one of the only two voices raised against what they considered one­sidered reporting on Vietnam. My only godchild whose father is a '28 classmate was married recently. She is Virginia Glcason, daughter of .ART GLE,-\­SON, who is practicing law and is in tlie insurance business with his son in Stow, O. 
Thanks to Class President BERNIE GARB£R , the Class of '28 had a good gct-togcthcr at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York Cit>' following the Syracuse game on Thanksgiving. In addition to Bemic and your Class secrctarv', the following were in attendance: GEORGE CRONGEYER, JOHN FONTANA. JOHN IGOE, JOHN AN*TUS, ED BOURKE, JIM ALLAN, JOHN D.WIS, ED McKEOWN, TOM BOV, JUDGE BILL JONES, RODGER BRESLIN, ADRIAN LOPEZ and EUGENE FARRELL. The wives, and in some cases the children, of the classmates also attended. The son of DENNY DALY and the son'and daughter of JOE HILGER tvcrc present for this affair although the parents did not make it. Barr\- Lopez, a student at Notre Dame and a son of Adrian, rccnved the Chicago Tribune cadet a\\'ard of the year in 1962. NEIL AMIOT wrote from \Vyan­
dotte, Mich., where he operates the Amiot Clean­ers, that he regretted not being able to attend the '28 get-together as he had planned to be with us. Class Treasurer JOE LANGTON wrote from Ottawa, 111., where he operates the Langton Auto Supply Co., ad\-ising that a prior commitment made it impossible for him to attend. Joe reported that BILL MURPHY and his sister stopped in for a good get-together in Ottawa. 
BOB HAMILTON, JUDGE BILL JONES, BERNIE GARBER and PAT CASSY attended the Prc-Game rally in New York the night before the SjTacuse game. ED F. BRENNAN expressed his regrets at not being able to attend our *28 get-together, I hope it wasn't because his daughter recently married a Syracuse man. 
GEORGE CRONGEYER and your Class secre­tary represented the '28 Class at the annual Com­munion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New York on December 8, 1963. TOM BR.ADLEY *30, who sat with us at the breakfast, received an award for his work with the Club. Tom is with the New York Division of EmpIoNincnt. Tom was asking about JOE BRANNON, who has returned from Sears. JOHN Q. AD.AMS '26 is a fellow committee member with your Class secrctarv- on the Committee of Religious Leaders of the City of New York. John is President of the Manhattan Refrigerating Co, He makes frequent trips to ^Vashington where he is an advbcr to Sccretar>' of .Agriculture Freeman. 
Our next '28 class gct-togcthcr will be following the U.C.L..A. game on October 17, 1964 at Notre Dame. Plan to order tickets for tlits game so you will be able to attend our 9lh .Annual *28 Class post-game cocktail party. 
From, the Alumni Office: In reporting the death of classmate P.AUL FALTER on Nov. 24, JOH.V C. FONTANA made a contribution to ND Foundation in Paul's memorv" while enclosing checks from a fellow lawyer in Columbus, O. 
C. EDWARD DIRINGER, formerly Southwestern regional sales manager of the I-auycrs Co-opera­tive Publishing Co., lawbook publishers in Rfx:hcs­tcr, N.Y., has been appointed field sales manager of the Rrm, responsible for marketing activities of the field sales force. Formerly owner of Diringer ^fotors in Rochester, Ed joined the publisher in 1944 and has directed sales in various parts of the US. He and Mrs. Diringer live in Pompano Beach, Fla., and have five daughters, three of tbcm mar­ried and liring in Rochester. 
CONF IDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1929 
Sub cct: 35th Anniversary REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-14 
1964 
Larry Staudcr 
•29 Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Tentative arrangements for our 35th year reunion are as follows; Housing. Lyons Hall; Class dinner, Friday evening, June 12, Morris Inn; Class Mass, Satu>-day morning; .Alumni Banquet, Saturday evening; Election of Class Officers — nominations 
for elections which may be held (by mail ballot 
before) (by mail ballot after) (during) the reunion 
are in order. We invite your suggestions. LocaL-
Committee — will meet soon. Publicity — arc yod-^ 
willing to send a promotional mailing? Golf, 
photographs, caps, beer — as usual. Details . . . 
will follow. 
ROCCO PERONE, formerly of Cincinnati, is now at I North Wackcr Drive, Chicago ^- office of Long Lines Dept. of AT&T. If you arc in the market for a house on Coralsca Drive, Cinannati, Rock and .Agnes arc the ones to see. Tlieir daughter Paulettc will finish at Ohio Slate in June and Dcnise will graduate from .Anderson High, Rocco Jr. and Pcrr>* arc in grade school in Cincy. 
Mar\- Elena is living at Pcnsacola, Fla., where her husband Is a jet pilot in training with the Na\y. Thej- have a two-year-old daughter Michelle.-. Rocco tried to contact FRED WEISS while ini Kansas City. They and many others of us arc reminded of JACK DONAHUE'S untimely death a year ago. 
RAYMOND M. HILLIARD of Chicago was re­elected cliairman of the board of directors of the National Catliolic Conference for Interracial Justice at their Nov. meeting In Washington, D.C. More than 300 delegates from Catholic interracial groups throughout the countr>- attended the four-day meeting. 
FRANCIS JO.VES, our Clas* president and an attorney in South Bend, was elected to the board of directors of the American Bank & Trust Co. in mid-November. Francis has been active in civic enterprises and we arc glad to have hlin on our^; local committee for the 35th reunion in June. 

Robert Kennedy means one person to Jimmy HofTa and another to the teacher of freshmen in the College of Liberal Arts at Notre Dame this fall. This freshman h the son of JLM KENNEDY and Elizabeth, the brother of eleven Kennedys (and the uncle of four lively youngsters). At home with him at 6534 Imlay St., Chicago, arc Kathleen, Henry, Mary, Roman. Eileen and KcWn, The six children have four difTcrcnt school-day destination* and their mother still another — namely, St. Cor­nelius School where she teaches 6th grade. Jim is an advertising and business counselor. Son Tom is a senior at Loras College. The four eldest chil­dren are Jim Jr., a science teacher in Chicago; John, with IBM in Waukcgan; Betty (wife of Michael LaGrua, Concho, Okla.). a teacher In an Indian school; and Patricia, LTJG, US Nax-y^' Nurse stationed In San Diego. 
HUGH J. McMANIGAL, Box 205, Perrine, Fla., has assisted in promoting attendance at previous reunions and is looking for^vard to seeing most of you in June. JIM CURRY has suggested that 
ll'ashintgon Post photos 

FERNANDO BERCKEMEYER '23, Peruvian Ambassador to the United States, has been the toast of Washington society pages with his odlection of silver stirrups (left) and the lavish entertaining of Senora de Berckemeyer (singing for her husband at right), listed by Time Magazine among the Capital's ten leading hostesses. The ambassador retired in December after 15 years in Washington. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus^ February-Marchj 1964 
members of the Class of '28 and '30 be invited 
to join with us this time. Wc hope that some of ^tiem will read this column and make plans to Attend. However, let's be more realistic and rather 
make it the resolve of each of us to personally contact friends in one or both of these classes and thereby bring some "foster children" back for a renewal of the good old days together. 
I^ H Dcverc Plunkctt 0*Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 

From the Alumni Office: An article on PETE WACKS, Bell Aerosystcms 
Co. vice-president for industrial relations, was given ma prominent place in the Buffalo Business magazine, ^u t out bv the Chamber of Commerce of Buffalo, 
N. Y. 
The late JAMES F. DILLEY was paid a tribute recently when Ossining (X.Y.) High School dedi­cated its athletic field as "James F. DIlle>- Me­morial Field." Jim was director of athletics and football coach at Ossining for 20 years. 
Best wishes to State Senator MARSHALL F. KIZER, brother of the late NOBLE KIZER '25, in his bid for the fndiana Democratic gubernatorial nomination. 
•^ 1 James T. Doyle 805 W. Arcadia Ave. 

• Arcadia, Cal. 
From the Alumni Office: 
BRO. MLUS, CSC, has been elected for the Bfth time as president of the board of directors of the St. Joseph County 4-H Fair, Inc. Bro. Xilus was also re-elected to a new three-year term on the board. 
Condolences to University Trustee AL STEFAN and his family on the recent death of his mother-in-law. 
•0 9 James K. Collins 
^ ^ 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: 
•| | The Fifth Philom. (Farmer's Almanac editor), RrVY GEIGER is entitled to the almanac editor's traditional title, which was popularized by Benjamin Franklin and derives from tlie Greek "philosopher," meaning *'lovcr of learning," plus "mathematician." There have been only four other editors of the publication since it began in 1818. Ray has edited a new book. Best From the Farmer's Almanac, whtcii was reviewed in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, and has been popping up with energetic "plugs" in ever>* medium of communication. 
Congratulations to MOST REV. P.\UL HAL­LIXAN, Archbishop of Atlanta, on the likelihood of his receiving a red hat at the next papal consistory after his work on the Ecumenical Coun­cil; and to ALEX WILSON for guiding the ND 
ATOss-countr>' team to its first IC4A national Championship. 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. 
•33 Gillespie & 0*Connor 342 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y. 

On Tuesday, December 31, 1963, a Memorial Mass was celebrated at the University in mcmor>' of all deceased members of our Class. .-\s you were previously advised, a similar Mass is to be held on the last day of December of each year in accordance with arrangements made at our XXX Reunion. 
' ^ Recent notes and good wishes were received from ~.\C K BREEN and EDDIE GARGARO from Detroit; MARTY MORAN, whose new address is 322 Douglas Street, Park Forest. III.; from CHARUE JASKWHICH, Kenosha, Wis.; MARION BLAKE of Tulsa, JOHN NICHOLS from Mil­waukee and ROLAND DAMES from St. Louis. 
LARRY SEXTON, who graciously acted as a master of ceremonies at our XXX Reunion, was In New York for the Notre Damc-Syracusc game and wc visited with him at the Notre Dame party at the Waldorf. Larr>- told us that he vvas going to send autographed pictures of the Indianapolis Speed­way Classic to all members of the Class of 1933, honoring the occasion of our XXX Reunion. Watch the mails! 
Also seen in New York at the Notre Dame-
PETER J. WACKS '30, formerly of the FBI and t^'ice spotlighted in 14 years in personnel and labor relations, has Hon new laurels since 1957 as vice-president for industrial relations of Textron's Bell Aerosystcms Co. In a story on "BelKs Breakthrough in Labor Relations" Peter was credited by the Buffalo, N.Y., Chamber of Commerce as a key figure in the changed labor climate at the aerospace company. 
Syracuse game were: FATHER FR^\NK GART­L.-\ND, CSC, who is still stationed at North Easton^ Mass.; REGIS McNAMAR/\, who is still city engineer for the City of Binghamton, N. V.; and MSGR. FRANK HARRISON, who has recently been assigned a new parish in Binghamton. 
A recent note from ED ECKERT from Plnehurst, No. Carolina—where he was enjoying a golfing holiday. 
Recently saw BILL LYNCH in Grand Central 
Terminal and he said he had been in touch recently 
with ANDREW BOTTI and FR.ANK .McGEE— 
all's well with both Andy and Frank. 
Attended both the Giant-Eagle game and the 
Notre Dame-Syracuse game with GEORGE ROHRS 
and his family. George is busy with his oil termi­
nal operations at I lastings-on-Hudson, N. V., and 
reports that he frequcntlv sees and talks to GENE 
R.\U. 
Our class certainly is highly complimented by the 
election of EDW.\RD STEPH.\N to the Associate 
Board of Lay Trustees at the University. Despite 
his busy law practice he still finds time to be 
active in alumni affairs in the Chicago area and 
devotes considerable time to the affairs of the 
University, 
On the afternoon of President Kennedy's tragic 
death, I ran into JIM SHE.\ at St. Joseph's Church 
in Bronxville. Jim recently moved to Bronxvillc, 
N. Y. and like thousands of others, he shared the grief of the counlrj* m typical Notre Dame fashion —by walking to his neighborhood parish to offer prayers for the President. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1934 
Subject: 30th Anniversary REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-14 
1964 
•n ^ T. Edward Carey 
^* t 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: DAVE KENNEDY '63, son of WALTER KEN­NEDY, has been named coordinator of sports for 
the NBC News Division, thus keeping in touch with 
the president of the National Basketball Assn. 
THEODORE J. HIEGEL of Conirar, Ark., has 
been named president of the Catholic Knights o£ 
America. He and his wife Frances have five 
children. 
Columnist D.WE CONDON '45 had the foUow­
ing in his favorite story dept.: "ED (MOOSE) 
KRAUSE, ND athletic director, reports that, several 
years a<;o, \vhile he was basketball coach and a 
hospital patient, he received a telegram: 'The faculty 
board in control of athletics, by a vote of 3 to 2, 
wishes you a speedy recovery.' " 
I^ K Franklsm Hochrcitcr ^ 3 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson, Md. 

From the Alumni Office: The last part of October we received the follow­ing letter: *'It is with deep pain that I wish to inform you that my husband, CHARLES J. NOVAK passed away April 20 of this year. *'Wc were returning with our son Paul (15) from a Florida trip and stopped to visit our son Kurt (19) at Penn State, where he is a student. While waiting for Kurt to get through with his classes, the three of us went to play golf and while golfing, without a warning, he (Chuck) just dropped dead. It was a horrifying experience and a deep shock, as Chuck was in excellent health, and golf, next to his family and Notre Dame was his love. "He had a deep, sincere respect and love for Notre Dame, a feeling he used to say, 'you just can't describe'. My only regret is that our son didn't choose Notre Dame for his college (he was accepted when he applied) but wc felt it was his decision to make. "Chuck was looking forward to this (33th anni­versar>-) reunion as he enjoyed the silver one so much. "Wishing you a successful reunion, I remain. Sincerely yours, Mrs. Chas. J. No\-ak.'* 
"2 A Joseph J- Waldron 
70 Black Rock Rd. Yardley, Pa. 

From the Alumni Office: DR. JOHN A. LORTTSCH was appointed direc­tor of manufacturing for General American Trans­portation Corp.'s Plastics Div. in October. John, his wife, a daughter and a son live in ^Vheaton, 
III. One daughter, Patricia, is a senior at the New England School of Art, Boston, Mass., and another daughter, Katherine, is a freshman at Butler U., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Josei^ P. Quinii 
•37 P.O. Box 275 I^ c Lcnape Andovcr, N.J. 

From the .Alumni Office: JOHN BENNETT SH.\W's interest in books began shortly after WW! when hb uncle opened a charge account up to $5 a month in John's name. Books sold for 75 cents then. There was a large article about John in a Tulsa newspaper. It went on to say that t^vo years ago Tulsa's libraries were in poor shape and they have now built, re­built or rehabilitated 19 libraries. A large portion of the work, the planning, design and influence in book selection, came from John, who is also a key advisor for the ND Memorial Library'. .Area Veep .AL SCWVARTZ wTotc in to ask what happened to JOE QUINN, enclosing a Hedda Hopper clipping that said: "JIM BACON'S 20-year­old son Roger gets a part in ^Looking for Love' at M-G-M. Papa is AP's dashing representative here. And what a dancer!" Huh? 
l^ Q Bumic Bauer ^ O 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 

The stack of returned questionnaires from you '38ers is almost as high as the deferred work pile on my desk. A terrific response that leaves me no alternative but to compile the flata and geC the "Who's Where" of '38 back to you —before the next reunion, I promise. 
Notre Dame AlumnuS;, February-March, 1964 29 
Most heartening was the response from tliose \vln> have never returned lor a reunion, plus the prom­ises of some of those to make our 30lh in 1968 — like from JOE DI MATTEO, nou-a grandfather of Joe III and still teacher and coach in Glcnshaw, Pa. One who never made a reunion and never will had his questionnaire sent in; the wife and four children of HARRY BERXBROCK, who died last March 3, did it for him. Remember Harr>' in your prayers. From Ft. Smith, Ark., HUGH COR­RELL protested the question of grandchildren with "Don't Rush Me** and then took up the argument we left ofT nearly 26 years ago by saying he's *'still opposed to the New Deal, Fair Deal and Big Deal and looking forward to voting for Goldwater." So far questionnaires have been returned by 90 who never made a reunion — something to work on for our next encampment. 
On the other end of the record 28 indicated they had attended all four of the reunions. HAL LANG­TON said he was here for the 1943 reunion ^vhich we didn't have. ED SNELL couldn't remember if he was here for our first one in 1948, but we gave him credit because there were quite a few others who were here who couldn't remember either. A total of 31 had made three reunions, 23 had made two reunions, and 37 had made just one, of whicli 14 were here at our Silver seance last June. That leaves still a lot of unanswered questionnaires. Come on, you quiet ones, send in your information 
f.o our Who's Wio in the Class of 1938 can be up to date. 
The neighbors of JACK THULIS and his wife Jane, who died within six weeks of cacli other last summer, Iiave set up a memorial fund for the six children whom the>* left behind, ranging in age from 20 to five. If you haven't and wnnt to help, send contributions to the Jack and Jane Thulis Memorial Fund, Christ the King Church, 9235 S. Hamilton Ave., Chicago. 
In retrospect the best thing about the past foot­ball Season was seeing vou '38 fads at the game. CHARLIE CALLAHAN mentioned seeing MAURY KENNEDY, no»- at Lodi. Calif., at the Stanford came, also JIM ENGLISH, who lives In Palo Alto, and DR. OBIE O'BRIEN- COL. CHUCK MOR­RISON w-as here from Lyncliburg, Va., to see Navy play and his freshman son at XD. Also sa%v GENE DOLAN and BOB .AfcGRATH. JOHN O'CONNOR and BOB \\-HITECOTTON were shak­ing their heads after one of the games. John's son was quarterback and Jim Carson's boy a guard on the outstanding Indianapolis Cathedral H.S. team last fair. 
Changes of address the past year Included: EDDIE KILRAIN from X.J. to 6705 FarmJeigh Dr., In­dianapolis; JOHN KLISE from Cleveland to 9(M Cambridge Ave.. Marion, Ohio: DICK BO\\*ES from South Bend to 102 Upland Rd.. Houghton, Mich.: WALT LEUIECKI from So. Bend to 1892 Audubon Dr. NE. Atlanta 6. Ga.: DR. JOHN RIEDER from So. Bend to 3918 Countr.- Club Dr., Long Bcacli, CaJ.: JOE MEHRING {rom .N.J. to 2111 W, 94th Terrace, Lcawood., Kan.: FRANK LARWOOD from Salem to 4786 SAV Elm Lane, Portland. Ore.: DR. JOHN TOBIN now at Mavo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.: JOE KUHARICH's new address, lOI Grand Ave., ifrddlctown. .V.Y.; PAUL V.AN WAGNER'S new address. '49er Countr\' Club. Tucson. Ariz. CAPT. JACK FOX. now at 1934 Columbia Pike. Arlington, Va.; BILL .ARNOLD froin N.Y. to 1942 Roscniar>- Hill Dr.. Silver Spring, Xfd. 
From the Alumni Office: 
FR. HESBURGH received an honorary- law degree from Lafayette College, Easton, Pa., and was named a trustee of the teachers' insurance and retirement group. Father was one of four recipients of the 1963 Bill of Rights Award in Xcw York and was cited "for distinguished public service in the field of crducallon." TTic others were a senator, a pro­fessor of space medicine and an editorial cartoonist. 
JOE KUHARICH told newspapermen that "I'd do anything for ND. Any way I ever can help ihem. I will." 
NICK LAMBERTO flew over in a jet tanker to cover the Big Lift for his paper. Said he was look­ing for XD men, but at that time none were to be found. 
BRO. EDGAR CSC has moved from Chicago to Cleveland and is ver>' busy at St. Edward High School. 
WALTER MONACELLI BSChE '38, PhD '41. a Cleveland patent attorney, lists Karl Zlegler — Nobel Prize-winning chemist o[ West Germany, who has made significant developments in industry-, and whose developments have brought him millions of dollai? in roj-alties — as one of his clients. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1939 Subject: Silver Jubilee 
REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-I3-H 1964 
•n p James N. Motschall Singer-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit, Mich. 
From tile .Alumni Office: Sccretar>-President JIM MOTSCHALL is ap­parently working ver\- hard on some surprises for tlic Silver Jubilee Reunion of the Class next June 12-14. The fact that he forwarded no news for this issue is probably explained by the fact that he received no information from his classmates, who arc perhaps so accustomed to receiving Jim's peri­odic questionnaires that the thought of volunteering some news has never occurred to them. 
Afotscliall, however, has been on the job. During the past football season Jim got the jump on nine other reunion classes by sclicduling the first plan­ning meeting for the 1964 Reunions at the Morris Inn. Present were South Bend ctialmian-deslgnatc JOE HANNAN, the American Trust tycoon; Jim, taking the dav off from his Detroit printing firm; Class Treasurer DAVE MESKILL and PAUL RICE, both down from Wilmctte. 111.; plus JIM ARM­STRONG '23 and JOHN L.AUGHLIN '48 from the Alumni Office. 
The meeting nailed down a tentative program for the reunion weekend: Class residence at ^(or* rissey Hall, supplemented by a I9th hole at the Rockne Memorial; at least three big meals at the North Dining Hall, onp of them with FR- HES­BURGH as host, etc. .\ mailing will be out soon assessing the damages — modest in view of the plans. 
Flash! Tlxe following came from Secreiarv* Mot­schall at press time, having missed connections for an earlier issue: 
-As you well know our 25ih reunion will take place on June 12-13-14 in 19G4 .. . a few short months away. 
In an cfTort to start things off propcrlv DAVE .MESKILL, our treasurer. JOE HANNAN. our campus representative, PAUL RICE, our district leader in Chicago, JIM AR.MSTRONG and JOHN LAUGHLIN and I held a meeting at the Morris Inn on Friday, October 4. It was the Intention of all present to make our reunion the biggest and best ever. However this success will depend upon your Interest and participation. It was suggested at the meeting to appoint regional alumni whose responsibility will be to contact either by phone or fetter all fellow classmates In his area. Some time ago I asked several people to help on this and they arc listed herewith; J. B. CELL.A 11, Fresno, Cali­fornia; J. GREGORY RICE, .\ew Jerse>-; WALTER 
H. JOHNSON. New York; MNCE DeCOURSEY, Kansas; JOSEPH P. SULLIVAN, Massachusetts; and PAUL RICE, Chicago. 
U'e would appreciate hearing from other '39ers who would help us contact as many as possible of your classmates. Wc need help from alumni who are in Texas, Oregon, Virginia, Florida, Louisiana, PennsyK-ania, Connecticut, Ohio, Montana, etc, and who arc really interested in making our re­union a tremendous success. Won't you please write me and volunteer. 

A complete new roster of our class was sent out to you with up-to-date addresses. This will help you In finding the men who live nearby. Also ^ve want you to contact your real close friends on campus and urge them to Join you this coming June . . . JIM CLIFFORD, TOMMY McINTYRE, CHET SADO^VSKI, JOHN CAREY, BRYAN CASEY. CHARLIE RODGERS. ART DAVES, PETE FLUGE, FRANK GEORGE, CHARLIE HAYES, DAVE HARRIS, BOB KIERNAN. PAUL KLUDING, JOE MacDONALD, TOM MAHER. JERRY NAU.MANN, JOHN O'HAR.^. DAN SHEEDY, TO-M SHEEHAN, JOHN SULLIVAN, JOE SULLIVAN, JOHN \\X\TERMEYER, TO.M ZIEGLER .. . all of you I expect to sec next June. 
Tlicrc is still one more Issue of the .ALUMNUS to be printed before our reunion. Please send me any new information you desire to divulge so we can be well represented in that issue. For the ones 
1964 

who have ne\iT sent me any of the four question­
naires this is the lime to act — not tomorrow but 
today. / A 
M A Janics G. Brown 144 East 44th St. New York, N.Y. 

From the .Alumni Ofllcc: REV. MOTHER M. VINCENTIA SSJ, superior general of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Xazaieih, Mich., Is perhaps the most eminent of the Class' MA girl grads. With the number of SSJ nuns In her province approaching 1,000, Mother Vinccn­tia had two almost simultaneous announcements of great importance last November: first, the appoint­ment of SR. M. MICHAELINE SSJ '51 as director v of vocations, the first full-time "professional" iif ^ this position; and secondly, the Diamond Jubilee of the Michigan teaching order. Observed In 1964, the 75th annivcrsar>- recalls the establishment of the community In 1889 by 11 pioneer nuns invited from Watertown, N.Y., by a Kalamazoo pastor. Today there are nearly 800 sisters on active duty In five dioceses and 90 more in training at the motherhousc. Besides Nazareth College and six hospitals, the community operates 72 high schools, grade schools, nursing schools and orphanages in the Chicago, Detroit, Lansing, Sag­inaw and Grand Rapids areas. The congregation actually dates from 1650 in Lc Puy, France, their habit deriving from u-Jdou-s' garb of the ^~P'^.\ century. Driven from France in 1836 by the athcis^ ) aftermath of the French Revolution, the sisters first settled in St. Louis, Mo., with later offshoots In 'Watertown and Nazareth. Congratulations to Mother Vincentia and her community, which has sent more than 200 sisters to ND and has at least 100 degree-holding alumnae in tlie ranks, besides using Holy Cross priests as chaplains at the Nazareth motherhousc from earliest years. 
I^ f James F. Spcllman 
7 East 42nd St. 
New York, X.Y. 

From the .Aluniiil Office: CHARLES H. EDGAR JR. '41, married and the father of two sons, was recently appointed markej', research manager of Celanesc Plastics Co., wher^ he will seek out and identify new and modlHcd market opportunities for the company's present and potential products and product lines. 
'42 
William M. Hickey 3333 West 45th Place Chicago, 111. 

FRED HOOVER and his wife recently completed a trip from their home in Seattle all through the Orient. Fred reports the trip is well worthwhile with Tokyo a wonderful place for sight-seeing and Hong Kong for buying anything. 
JIM O'NEAL reports from New York that JOHNV 

KIRBY is now ass't advertising director ol Uil 
Ne%*-s and World Report. In John's travels, he recently had dinner in Cincinnati with W.\LLY HEEKIN and ran into TOM CARROLL at the Biltmore. FRED PAULMANN Is doing a yeoman job as head collection usher in his New Rochelle parish. FRANK POLLNOW was in NY on a big cliemical deal. GUS HARD.ART is still catching the 3:23 to Larchmont. None of the N\' '42crs want to recognize TOM FITZHARRIS, who looks exactly the same as the day he graduated. L.-\RRY HICKEY still busy pouring cement, the construe-; tion business is extremely good. Larrx- xs almost as "| busy as "RAPID ROBERT" BURKE who heads up one of the top food brokerage concerns in ^letropolitan New York. 
PAUL LILLIS, now of Chicago. LrVRRY KELLE^J ) and BILL PADDEN of Houston, DON HOGAN. TOM NASH. BILL MARSHALL, JIM CONW.\Y. and BILL HICKEY watched the Chicago Bears beat the Los Angeles Rams nii their way to a vcr>' successful season. 
JLM FAYETTE reports fioni Burlington, Vt„ that CHARLIE CONGER of Poughkeepsle visits Iiim frequently, and that TONY DONADIO of j Baltimore also gets to that part of the countr\*. In I N^Y recently Jim visited with JLM .McFADDEN, who Is now the commissioner of labor. JACK CLIF­FORD is with the FBI in Plaitsburg. N.Y.. just across the lake from Buriington. JOE RORICK, now an executive with IBM, selected Burlington, Vt., OS the site of a new IBM plant. Jim was in | Las Vegas with MIKE H^TCES, who was In a I 
( 
i rodeo, and reports that Mike is a very capable rodeo performer. JIM DOVLE reports from Davenport, low-a, that ^t the CFA convention in Minneapolis they visited with CLETUS CHIZEIC, whom yoa will recall as our accounting professor. At the convention EM­METT KEENAN had a chance to visit with Prof. JIM DINCOLO. TOM DEGNAN is now living at 203 Wchvyn Road, Woodbroob. Wilmington, Del., and reporu that WALT CORDES is back in Wilmington after asstgnmcnts with DuPont in Houston and East Chicago as director of research for the Industrial & Biochemicals Dept. Both Tom and Walt have sons at St. Edmund's Academy, run by CSC. PHIL LUCIER, president of Continental Tele­phone Company of St. Louis, is getting a lot of publicity in the financial papers recently for his Apctivity in acquiring other businesses. Continental ^was formed in Januar>* 1961 and by various acqui­sitions continues to grow as an independent tele­phone company. They now have their service in 21 states. 
From the Alumni Olhcc: GEORGE A. H.ANINGER, of Orange, Cal., has been appointed staff engineer in charge of gas requirements of the Southern California Gas Co. LOUIS F. KURTZ was elected president of the Central Supply .-Vssn. at their G9th annual meeting in Chicago in October. CSA is the world's oldest and largest association of wholesalers of plumbing and heating products, pipe, valves and fittings and Comprised of over 400 wholesale firms in 26 states ^ n the central-west. Louis, his wife, Elizabeth and lour children reside in Dcs Moines, Iowa. JAMES 
J. McFADDEX, acting commissioner of labor, New-York City Dcpt. of Labor, executive director of the Mayor's Committee on Job Ad\-ancement, officer and director of nonpiofit housing cooperatives spon­sored by the Credit L'nion Mos'cmcnt, and active with many other civic and cultural organizations, was elected to the Board of Directors of the Na­tional Catholic Conference for Interracial Jtistice on the final day of its annual convention held in Xovembcr in Washington, D.C. 
*42 ^'^'^^ ^^'gS'ns 
5125 Briggs Ave. 
La Crcsccnta, Cal. 

^Fioni the Alumni Office: ROBERT E. GILLETTE, a member of the in­dustrial sales operation, East Orange office of General Electric, was the first to qualify for posting in the gold book of e.\lra orders in an all-out sales campaign conducted bv GE. GEORGE E. THOMPSON JR., a legal tech­nician \vith the 6341st Support Wing, Osan .-\B, Korea, has been promoted to master sergeant in the USAF. DR. RICHARD D. MURRAY, Youngstown plas­tic surgeon, went to Hong Kong in January to work as a volunteer in a hospital operated by the Mar>'knoll Sisters. (See "Spotlight.") 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1944 
Subject: 20th Anniversary 
REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 1964 
^AA George A. Bariscillo, Jr. ^ ^ 444 Golf Rd. Deal Park, N.J. 

w My vvifu Susan and I wish to announce tlic arrival of George A. Bariscillo III on December V, 1963. Xow tliat we're increasing, it has been ncces­sar>" to seek larger quarters and you will note your Secretary's new mailing address is 444 Golf Road, Deal Park, N.J. 
Our 20th Anniversary Reunion next June has already generated considerable interest among mem­bers as more and more arc reporting tlicjr inten­tions to be among those present and accounted for. Tliosc who attended our I5th Reunion five years ago will surely return and those who missed that last gala event will certainly not u'ant to be dis­appointed again this time. 
REV. JOE GALLAGHER has consented to cele­brate ihc Class Mass on Saturdav of Reunion week­
DR. RICHARD D. MURRAY '43 To the East, a Many-Talented Surgeon 

.•\ man of many and varied talents, Rich­ard Murray, M.D., M.Sc, has left for the Orient to apply one of his skills. A plastic surgeon in Youngstown, Ohio, Dr. Murray left Jan. 26 for Hong Kong to work as a volunteer in a hospital operated by the MaryknoU Sisters. .And recently he employed several talents in the construction and dedi­cation of Youngstown's Mcdart Building which houses his office. 
.•\ native of Youngstown, Dr. Murray took his prcraedical training at Notre Dame, where he also developed hobbies of painting, sculpture and music. He received his M.D. at Georgetown, interned at local hospitals and, after service with the U. S. Navy as a medical officer and a surgical residency, took a master's degree in medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, where he be­
end and Class "Prexy" JOHN LYNCH reports plans arc jelling for many surprises and a great time for all. BOB LEHM.\N will again be local chairman; BOB SCHRtVMM Is contact man for Chcm. E's, and Lynch would welcome any other volunteers to assist the reunion commiltcc. 
TO.M ROLFS telephoned the other day en route to liuropc for the International Trade Fair in Frankfurt. 
TJianks are in order to KEN BRO\V*X for trans­lating OICK. LEON's Invitation which arrived re­cently from Mexico City. Dick was recently invested in the Noble Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem at the Mexico City Cathedral. Our his­torians advise this is an ancient papal society with roots in mcdlc^'al Spain. 
Next deadline date for column news is April 1, 1964, and I would appreciate hearing from as many as possible before that date who plan to attend the Reunion in June so we may report advance rcserx'ations In the last issue before we gather — as well as including the information in reunion news­letters. 
From the Alumni Office: The local chairman mentioned above, ROBERT 
L. LEH\L\N, pres. of Indiana Engraving Co., re­cently announced the merger of his company and Pilot Engraving Co., making rhe Indiana Engrav­ing the second largest photoengraving manufacturer in Northern Ind. and Southwestern Mich. As head 
came an instructor in plastic surgery. In 
the past 12 years he has published a dozen 
papers in medical journals; most arc on 
aspects of his specialty, but his writings 
range from the Bologncse Renaissance to 
Oliver Wendell Holmes. Licensed in three 
states and a diplomate of the American 
Board of Plastic Surgery, he bdongs to 
well over a dozen medical and surgical 
societies, several civic and fraternal organi­
zations and three art associations. He has 
been president of the Youngstown Symphony 
Society for the past two years. 
The last av-ocation accounts for an un­precedented outdoor concert of the Youngs­to\vn Philharmonic Symphony at the dedi­cation of his medical building, which he eventually intends to make the Symphony Society headquarters. Bolstered by the flute section of the Cleveland Symphony, the orchestra played a program of Weber, Berlioz and Bartok, winding up with a stir­ring rendition of Tschaikovsky's 1812 Overture accompanied by rockets, bells and aerial bombs. (Richard, an accomplished pianist, was a volunteer percussionist.) The building, designed by the surgeon to cele­brate the union of science and art in medi­cine, is a miniature Versailles in 17th-cen­tury classic style. The sculpture outside (representing great artist-surgeons of the past) and the paintings inside are all the work of Richard Murray. Bold allegorical murals, resembling the work of Orozco, portray Dick's strong ideas about art, gov­ernment, etc. One of his oils, "The Con­quest of Incentive," won the first prize of the .-Vmerican Physician's Art .Assn., and the building itself won the Youngstown .Area Chamber of Commerce civic improvement award for excellence of design and construc­tion. 
-A bachelor and a parishioner of St. Dominic's in Youngstown, Dr. Murray feels that his February sojourn in Hong Kong may lead to regular visits to correct con­genital deformities of refugee children. He also offered to set up a course in recon­structive surgery at the medical school of the University of Hong Kong. He expects to return in late March after a brief tour of Thailand, India and Egypt. 
of the merged company. Bob obser\'ed that plans are under consideration for the expansion of the plant. NLATTHEW BOLGER JR. Is baseball coach at Rutgers U. JAMES H. ANTON has joined the advertising dcpt. of the American Medical Assn. in Chicago. He is also public relations director of the Midwest Pharmaceutical Advertising Club of Chi­cago. 
l^ C Frank Af. Unchan 
" ^ General Electric Co. 
600 Main St 
Johnson City, N.Y. 

From the Alumni OfEice: Tlie Class Secretary- is "in a slate of confusion, more than usual," because of a recent transfer to Johnson City, N.Y. Frank will be responsible for the physical protection of the plant and security of classiBcd information, as welt as the safety and disaster control programs for the light military electronics dept. of GE. Frank sent In two notes about JIM RETTER, Class president, and JIM DONNELLY, Class treasurer. Jim and Jim met in NY Jan. 13 to initiate plans for the '63 reunion. Pres. Rcller lias abo been transferred to North Carolina as southeast region manager for Union Carbide. . . . Frank says he will produce a much longer column for the next issue. . . . 
JOHN P. SRANAHAN Avalked to the altar on 
Notre Dame Aiumnus, February-March, 1964 31 
Jan. 12, "63, at St. Ita, Chicago, witJi his **no\v 
lovely wife, Gcraldinc." Thc\' were looking fon*"3rd 
to a Nov. 12 blessed event. 
JOHN G. ALACK JR., manager of bar sales (in­
gDts, that is) at Inland Steel, Chicago, was the 
subject of a full-page profile entitled "First and 
Last a Salesman*' in his companj-'s quarterly pub­
lication. Inland, detailing his rise through the com­
pany's organization since joining Inland in 1946 
as a tender in the blast furnaces. Son of an cxccu­
rive in Clark £quipmcnC Corp., witli a degree in 
business administration and service as a Xaw 
officer in the Pacific in WWII, he soon got a crack 
at sales work in Detroit and has been selling steel 
ever since. John, a native Soutli Bender, and wife 
Catherine (a high-school sxveetheart from Nilcs, 
Midi.) nou* live in Wilmette, III., with seven 
cliildrcn — six girls and a boy. Tlic biography lists 
several hobbies (John fishes, hunts, golfs and Is an 
omnivorous reader) but doesn't mention that he 
recently took up bowling — and got himsetf hos­
pitalized with a back injury' after his first turn on 
the lanes. 
9MM Pcier P, Richiski T* ' 60 Robin Place Old Grccr»Wchj Conn. 

From the Alumni Oflicc: Secretary PETE RICHISKI declined to fonrard the meager list of classmates from whom he received Christmas cards, presumably for lack of messages lliercon. Indeed, unless some of you stalwarts vol­unteer some **hard" news on classmates in your precinct. Pete may be forced to serialize the life and limes of ELMER ANGSMAX. 
'47 Jack Miles 3218 Bcntley I-anc South Bend, Ind. 

THE JERSEY MOOSE By now you know the sad tidings: Our own ELMER "MOOSE" MATTHEWS, not only bowed to a GOP tide in his race for the Jersey- Senate but failed to win a spot on the .Alumni Board of Directors jn t)jc cnd-of-ycar balloting. To those of you who supported him, his and our thanks; for those who didn't take the trouble to vole, a choice selection of muttered oaths. We'll submit the name of a worthy '47'er this year again, so make it a point to back him — should he be nominated — all the way. 
GLEANINGS . . . The pickin's arc sHm this issue, but a few notes of interest arc at hand: When my father, FRA^K ^tlLES '22, president of the Notre Dame Monogram Cluh, was in Cliicago in December for a football fete, he had a fine visit with KEN SCHUSTER, area representative for the Central Sled & Wire Co, Dad reports Ken remains in playing trim. CHARLIE POINSATTE is on sabbatical leave from his history post at St. Maiy*s College; he and his wife, Anne Marie, and their children (John 6, Francoise V/i and Laurcen 2) are in her native Paris, France, having set sail on the Dutch Line the first of Fcbruarv*. Charlie plans to take couises at the University of Paris or do rescarcli in the National Librao', i*hilc Anne Marie pursues her chosen field of languages. 
NOTE TO YOU Tliree letters are on file, so permit mc to share a few cogent excerpts with you. PHIL DELINCKE's \ridow. Dot, writes: "On Oct. 27 I ofi"ercd my Mass and Communion for Phil just as tliough I were at tlie Retreat House ^vhcre tlie Mass was being said by the request of the 1947 class. You will never know how happy that made me. Phil's love for Notre Dame was something I cannot explain to you, but then maybe you understand better tlian anyone else. He always talked about returning someday for a visit. He really expected to do just that, . . . *'Sharon is back in the swing of scliool again. She has been having some difficulty this year as she is taking Laun II, geomctr>-, bioIog>' and English as her majors. Phil w-as sucli a big help to her but she is fully on her own now. . . ." From BROTHER IVAN DOLAN CSC: "Sorr>­1 haven^t written sooner; I cannot say that illness has been the reason .. . so It must be attributed to a disease common enough among' missioner?, scnbephobia or something like that. A nice way to admit that I am lazy. .. . I Iiave been down with the flu twice in tlie past four months, and 
SIX MILLERS vere gathered together on the campus recently for a rare photograph: 
(from left) Crcighton '44, Walter '20, Harry '10 (father of Creighton), Don '25 of the Four Horsemen, Ray '14, and Jerry '23. Ray was a football teammate of Knute Rocknc, and four others (Don, Waller, Harry and Creighton) had All-American mention. 
being right here in Asia I had the undiluted t^-pc. 
Eacli time I fought it as long as I could but cacli 
time ended up in Iiospital for a few days. In tlic 
building line I have put up a couple more build­
ings, a new liostel buildin.c. new kitchens and store­
rooms, new sanitary* facilities for the students. I 
have a couple more buildings to get started during 
tliis present l6tli one-year plan. Say a prayer that 
all goes well; materials arc hard to get. . . ." 
A Micliigan City, Ind,, postmark adorns the 
Christmas card received frnm Harriett and BEV 
LIEBIG (he started with us in '44 and finished, I 
believe, at Indiana), to which this note is ap­
pended: **Just a few lines to inform you that I 
have resigned from Gardex and am now tlic chief 
industrial engineer over two plants for the John 
\S\ Hobbs Corp., a division of SIewart-^\'•a^lc^, 
"Wc will be residing in Springfield, 111., as soon 
as I can sell my current house and purcliasc a 
new one there. . . . We Iiavc five Indiana-born 
boys, as you know, so maybe Illinois will fa\'or us 
wiili a girl. . . ." 
CODA If your name wasn't mentioned this issue, the guy you watch shaving in your mirror is to blame. 
From the Alumni Office: C D- FIRESTONE JR. wss appointed manager of petroleum company sales for the Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. EDWARD A. FISCHER, assoc prof, of communication arts at ND, spoke on "The Technique of a Documentary" at a meeting of pub­lic affairs directors of tlie broadcasting industry sponsored by Wcstinghouse Broadcasting Corp. JOHN "TO.MMV" BARRETTS sister, SR. MARY OLIVIA .MS '53 and PhD '57 is the newly elected President of St. Xarier College, Chicago. From BILL AfAHONEY of Radio Free Europe: **. . . If any traveling alumni find themselves in the Vienna area, my address is: 8 Gloriettcgasse, \^enna XIII, tel: 63(M41. We can discuss old times over new wine." Finally, Secretary- JACK MILES called in a cr^'ptic message from globetrotter SAM ADELO, formerly the Soulli American expert for Kcnda*-is Industries, tliat he has become associated with the legal department, international division of Phillips Petroleum Corp., Bartlesvillc, Okla. 
I^ O George J. Keenan 
U7 Rolling Hills Rd. 
Clifton, NJ. 

It's time again for another issue and your new secretar>' is finding that these edition deadlines roll around fast even though the issues are a few montlis apart. As T write this column thi; Christmas issue is being mailed to you so there will be a time lapse of about six months from the time I submitted my first column and its issue and your replies for an ensuing issue. Meanwhile we will still have enough to keep our class "representative." 
Our former secretary JOHN DEFANT sent mc the files that he had accumulated and I want you to know that writing a column isn't all there is to this position. I filled up two file drawers with all the information tliat John sent me. A real good record has been kept of all the members of the class, so wc know where you are, all we liavc to do is hear from you. 
At the class reunion in June there was a lot of hooting and hollering about the quantity of the column in the ALU.MNUS for the class of 1948. You will recall that back in 1959 JOHN DEFANTV^ sent a plea to all members o[ the class (1,035 oRv them) asking for information about themselves and others so that this information could be published. It was published early in I960 and it was an out­standing job. It was also not a complete job be­cause everyone was not Iicard from. I have looked through the files at the replies that were received and, you kuow^ the gu>-5 that did all the hollering and hooting about the quantity of the column at the last reunion arc by far the largest group that didn't send in any information. These arc the same people that elected me as their secrctarj* for the next five years and pledged tlicir support. Wc arc now going to sec what happens and then we'll sec who docs the hollering at the next reunion. 
I have recently received about 35 notices of dianges of address for members of the class for­warded by tlie Alumni Office. Any changes tliac were other than cross-town or within the immcdiat^'-'\ area I noted, but of those that involved interstat^' moves I sent a letter to each one asking if the move Was for a new job, promotion, transfer etc. You know H'hat? 1 received one reply, and that was from LARRY RYAN. 
Larry writes that his company. Motors Insurance Corp., transferred him to Dallas on August 1 and his new assignment is as regional claims manager. His territory reaches from Arizona to Louisiana and he hopes to be able to sec some of the mem­bers of the Class of '48 in Iiis travels ''as friends, not claimants." Larr\' and his wife Marce have four cliildren. In his new parish in Dallas, St. Monica's, Larr\- writes that he has met HAL TEHAN, who is a fellow parishioner. Hal is with the Haggor Company in Dallas and many of us iiv­the Class of '48 who started in 1942 rcmembeJL JOE HAGG.AR, whose family owns the Haggar Company. \Vc have lost contact with Joe over the years and would like to hear from him as he has many friends in the Class of '48. We think of Iu"m when Wc see the ads in Life. 
It was nice to hear horn harry and know that he has the desire to cooperate with this column. We have to keep driving on this cooperation bit because that is what makes this column possible. If wc do hear enough to fill the columns, we'll get them filled and we know you'll enjoy ft all. Arc we all going to be active members of the class of '48 from now on out? Let's hope so. 
One of our very popular class members who ser\'ed with me as a maitrc d' in the Caf in yearj^;. gone by, ED RECKER, has returned to the cain^ ' pus and is now associated with the Alumn! and Foundation offices. Wc saw Ed at the reunion and he looks as good as ever. Ed says he would like to sec fellow classmates as they return to the cam­pus for visits during the year. BILL BONWICH who is at the College of Business Administration (formerly Commerce) is also a good man to con­tact on any visits to the campus. Bill is a good host and can tell you first hand of the many jievv* programs going on at the campus. Bill is our standing reunion chairman, and we hope he keeps the job because he does an excellent bit on all the arrangements. 
Since Dur recent reunion X have had the pleas­ure of reading all the books written by our very 
32 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Februarys-March, 1964 
C 

famous classmate, the late DR. TOM DOOLEY. 
These arc excellent reading and I would recom-Apcnd them to everyone. He was an outstanding ^n d saintly man. His work in Southeast Asia has 
left an everlasting impression in the minds of i these people and has been one of the greatest, if I not the greatest, of contributions that the United 
States has made to these unfortunate people. We I of tlic Class of '48 should be proud that wc were ' in some u-ay as5oaatcd with him. Although I did 
not know him well, I recall working in the Dining Hall with him in 1947. 
We hear that our class was represented at the Wisconsin game by a few local area men, namely EV SCHLECK, DICK NOLL and BILL ROBERTS. There were probably more there, but communica­tion being wjiat it is, we vvantcd to mention these 
«hrc e stalwarts of Badin Hall. 
At the Touchdown Club luncheon in Kcw York before the ND-Syracusc game wc enjoyed the com­pany of /^NGELO BERTELLI and MARTY CROGHAM. Since the luncheon was the 50th Anni­versary of the first Notre Dame-Army game, the program was in memor>- of KNUTE K. ROCKNE. Representing Xotre Dame was ED ^'MOOSE'* KRAUSE and FR. EDMUND JOYCE. 
For the big game in the East on Thanksgiving Day, there were many pregame and postgamc gct­logcthcrs. One of the big affairs before the game was the "rally" held by TONY MISTRETTA and BEN SHEERAN. Wc ran into countless ND men there and met them again at the postgamc aflfair which JOE 0*TOOLE and JACK COOXEY had 
l^it their New York hotel suite. The latter affair outdrew the pregame rally although the spirit of victory was absent. 
At Yankee Stadium during the course of the debacle we ran into TOM HERBERT and BOB TAYLOR %vl)o came down from the Syracuse area to sec if it "would happen" and found out that it *'did." Also down from the same area was H.ANK KOCHMAN. Among those sitting together and wondering if what tlicy were seeing was true ^vcrc the JACK KEARNEYS, GEORGE OLVANEYS, BILL BR^VCKENS and the JIM LEDWITHS. In the same general area of end zone scats we saw BUNKY REGx\N» GENE DE.\N, SHAUN Mc-DERMOTT, JACK MABEY, PHIL MUNNING, BOB .^rORAN, JOE O'REILLY, BILL GRIFFIN, LARRY WOODS, JIM MANSFIELD, BOB SATTI, BILL FITZHARRIS and BART JOHNSON. 
^ JIM CORCORAN writes that he was at the 
'^Michigan State game and met quite a few mem­bers of the class who are residing in Michigan and able to make the game. Among those he saw, passing on the word to them about our reunion, were PAUL HUSSAR, TO.M HIGGINS, JOE FLOOD, CHUCK HASTINGS, BILL GOMPERS, TOM LOOK, DOM MOFFO and the real "JOE WILCOX." 
Our wcII-traveJcd classmate GENE DE.\N, who covers the entire United States negotiating and arbitrating for American Cyanamid, tells me that on his recent trip through Ohio he ran into his old roommate BOB HOLLENKAMP, who is also a lawyer In Dayton. In the Columbus area he met another old roommate, BOB "ZEKE" ECHEN­RODE. Back in '42. when single rooms were like 
^iuites, one had countless roommates, and Gene and Zcke held forth in the dome of St. Ed's Hall. While in Dayton he also ran into DICK ELLIOTT, who is with the Northwestern Mutual Life Insur­ance Co. as a local agent. 
The Notre Dame Club of New Jersey had their annual Communion Breakfast on December 1, which was immediately after the S>Tacuse game. Sharing a table were ANGELO BERTELLI, GENE DEAN, ART STATUTO, FRANK TRIPUCKA, LEO COS­TELLO and ME (GEORGE KEENAN). Also seen at the same affair were members of the Class of *48 from New Jersey, namely, H.ANK DI GIROL­AMO, JACK COONEY, DR. PAUL REILLY, JACK REGAN, TOM GREEN, JOE OTOOLE and JIM LEDWITH. One of the speakers was ^GU S CIFELLI, who gave us some of the back-
aground stor>' on the team this year. 
FRANK TRIPUCKA has just finished his 15th year of pro football, having spent this last year with the Denver Broncos and the Saskatchewan Rough Rider? in the Canadian Football League. In the off season Frank has a retail package store (liquor store, that is) in BloomHcld. N.J. His 15 years of pro ball Is probably without equal today. Each year has been Frank's last so we arc waiting lo hear about next year. 
ART STATUTO is ver>- proud these days since his son Mark has just earned his letter in football at Mahwah, N.J., High School. Art is district manager for the Globe Gear Co., and he lives at 4 Schuyler Road, Allendale, N.J. Art and his wife have three daughters in addition to their athlete 
JACK QUINLAN M8, voice of the Chicago Cubs, was toostmaster for Chicago*s 1963 Rockne Award Dinner ^viih rapid-fire gags and a quick paced speaking program. 
son. Wc told Art that CASPAR URBi\N and 
GEORGE TOBIN were asking about him at the 
reunion, and Art sa>-s he will be there the next 
time. 
GEORGE CONNOR, also of ND football fame, 
has just been received into the Football Hall of 
Fame. Our congratulations to George, who joins 
many other ND greats in thb honored group. 
Our MAX LUDU'IG of the MAX LUD^'IG 
ADVERTISING CO. in New Castle, Pa., tells us 
that everything is going fine with the M.-\X 
LUDWIG familv and .M.\X LUDWIG ADVER­
TISING CO. Max has five sons. (Adv.) 
In the recent elections held in the State of New 
Jersey, ELMER ".MOOSE" MATTHEWS who was 
scr\ing as speaker of the .•\s5i-mbly became a victim 
of a "political situation" and very unfortunately 
so. Elmer was doing a great job in the Assembly 
and was highly respected in his very important 
position. As "Moose" was an exemplary Notre 
Dame man, his fellotv alunini were very proud of 
him. Unfortunately in a bid for the State Senate 
scat * from Essex County the political fortunes 
changed and went against him. We arc sure that 
Elmer will be back again soon with the added 
strength that will place him in a position wjierc 
he serves well for the benefit of many. 
We have received word that ALBERT A. MAS­
TERS has been assigned to the Acclcierie Crucible 
Vanzctti Plant near Milan. Italy, where he will 
ser^'c as a consultant in the establishment of \'ariou5 
business s>'stems. His wife and four children accom­
panied him to Italy. .\l is a past president of the 
Lions Club. He received a BS in .Accounting on 
graduating from ND. 
AL LaMERE^ who is now living at 216 Gregor>* 
Street, Munstcr, Ind., is with the Illinois Bell Tele­
phone Co. in Chicago. He is coordinator oi elec­
tronic data processing. Al and his wife Dorothy 
have seven daughters. At least, AI, you don't have 
to worry about who is going to be wearing your 
ties. If you arc the first or last one up you have 
no fear about who will he the best-dressed man 
in the house. 
Wc received a nice letter from JULL\N M.\­H^VNY and enclosed with it was a picture of his family. He and his wife Dorothy have five beau­tiful children ranging from 10 to 4 years of age. After leaving ND he went for his MBA at Xavlcr in Cincinnati and then joined Armco Steel Corp., where he is now supervisor of accounting and statistics. Among his lost friends are PETER STUBLER, DON ROSENBACH, JACK SANTA­MOUR and FRANK BAKER. The Mahan>-s re­side at 3801 Milton Road, Middlctown, Ohio. 
BILL GOMPERS Is liWng at 1602 West Houstonia in Royal Oak, Mich. Bill Is a sales engineer with the Mine Safety Appliance Co. At last count Bill and Nanc>' Gompers had seven descendants. Bill saj-s bc^d like to hear from JIM DAILER, ART BRADY. TOM CLEMENTE, JIM LEARY and GENE DEAN. 
ART SWAIN is living at 5506 Amby Drive, San Jose, Cal. and he's with IBM as a staff engineer working on the "giant brains." Art and Margaret ha%'c six children. Any mechanical engineers of the Class of *48 who are not too engrossed lo write, he'd like lo hear from you. 
We'd like to hear from some of our classmates out in the far west. How about it, DAN GENTILE, WALT KRONEBERGER and ELDON O'BRIEN? 
BILL SWEARINGEN is sUII in Charleston, W. Va,, where he is executive secretary of the West Virginia Bankers Assn. 
RAY J. KENNEY Is with the Plymoutb-DcSoto. Valiant division of Chrysler Motors in St. Louis. Ray and his wife Patricia are living at 253 St. Edward Lane, Florissant, ^fo., and they have three sons and a daughter. 
The last of the great baseball players, NEIL KELLY, is living in Allentown, Pa. Neil and his wife Pat have three sons. Nell says he'd like to hear from another prettv good ball player, JACK MAYO. (So would I.) 
REV. JOHN E. MCCARTHY CS C is teaching a t Notre Dame High School in Bridgeport, Conn. xVfter leaving Notre Dame, but before beginning his studies for the priesthood In 1952, Father was associated with Marsh & McLennon Insurance Brokers In New York City. He was ordained in 1938. 
PAT MULVIHILL just sent his questionnaire in and tells us about himself. He says **It Is about four years late but it caught up with me through many addresses." Pat Is with IBM In Kingston, 
N.Y. Mter leaving ND he picked up a M.A In Psycliology at the U. of Omaha. M a project manager of management development he conducts training programs with managers on operating problems. Pat married Marjorle Aldrlch in 1950, and they have seven children, 2 girls and 3 boys. 
Wc hear that JIM MELLO Is at the Mansfield Training School in Mansfield, Conn. I'm sure Jim's many friends would like to know how Jim is doing' and what he Is doing. 
Only recently word was forwarded to me through tlie Alumni Ofiicc that DON ALBRIGHT passed au'ay on April 8, 1963. Don was a Commerce man and received his BSC In '48. Our sincere sympathy is extended to his wife and family. We are sure that his many friends will remember him in their prayers and Masses. 
Until next time I'll be looking to hear from you and what you have to contribute to this Class column will be appreciated by all. 
From the Alumni Office; NOEL DIGB Y has been elected a vice-president of Gardner Advertising Co. in St. Louis. He is now a creatii'e superi'isor and television writer-producer. ALDO A. MEROLLINI, technical asst. to the branch head of the communications satellite projects branch at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md., is currently working on the Syncom satellite project. FR.ANK J. CULHANE, treas. of the Formfit Co., has been named pres. of Formlntern, a newly formed international div. of Genesco Inc., with his headquarters in Chicago. Formintem will handle all the merchandising, mar­keting and manufacturing functions of Genesco's intimate-apparel firms in foreign countries. GEORGE "MOOSE" CONNOR was the Toast­master for the annual ND football banquet held Dec 5 at the North Dining Hall. At the present time, *'Moo5c" Is an executive with the Hoemer Box Corp. in Chicago and assists on telecasts of Bears* games. BILL BALL wrote a NCWG study entitled "The Constitutionality of the Inclusion of Church-Related Schools in Federal .-Md to Education." This Is the basic Catholic legal document in the field, and it has received ver>- wide commendation. IValter Lipp­mann used It as the basis of his remarks on "CBS Reports" a few months ago, as did Senator Rlbl­cofT and others. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1949 Subject: 13tli Anniversaiy 
REUNION 
Weekend—June 12-13-14 1964 
•4 0 Jol™ Walker Wayne, lU. 

From the .-Vlumnl Office: REV. JAMES SHEEHAN CSC of the Archbishop's Committee on Human Relations, Detroit, was elected to the board of directors of the National Catholic Conference for Interracial Justice on the final day of its annual convention, held in November in Washington, D.C. Inland Steel Co., Chicago, an­nounced the transfer of THOMAS E. LYNCH» sales dept. claim rep., to the New York City dis­trict sales office as special sales representative. Tom, a lifelong resident of Hammond, Ind., assumed his 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 33 
new fiuiita. Dec. 9- Tom and Chartolte have six 
children. 
DICK FRIEND, intramural athletic director, at 
Campion Jesuit High School in Prairie du Chicn, 
Wis., has instituted a year-round phy'sical fitness 
program wliich has 100% cooperation from 600 
bo\-s. Dick's unique program made the front page 
of a Dubuque, Iowa. Sunday paper and if any edu­
cator is Interested in learning more about it just 
drop him a note. 
ROY J. O'.VEIL B.M '49, M.M '54 h i.orting 
on a PhD at Northern Illinois U.. DcKalb, III. 
In his spare time he is administrative asst. to the 
FUpt. of public schools on the EoM side of Aurora, 
is director of the adult cliorus in the adult cdu> 
cation program at East .Aurora Hich School, is 
married and ha^ five children. 
Richard F. Hahn 
'50 
47 Emerson Rd. 
Glen Rock, X.J. 
From tlic Alumni Office; ELLIOTT J. BURRELL JR., formerly uiih the radiation ph>-sics laboratory* of DuPont, Wilmington, Del., is now asii. prof, of cliemistry, Loyola University, Chicago, and is living in Ml. Pleasant, 
III. P.^UL B. RAPACH has been appointed director of personnel for the Kitchens of Sara Lee, Chicago and resides in Wilmcttc, III., with his wife, Lee. 
RICHARD A. C0RD.\SC6 has moved from New Monmouth, N.J. to Silver Spring, Md. and is now OR the staff ot the Special Subcommittee on the Federal Aid Highway Program, Committee on Public Works, House of Representatives, Washington. D.C. GEORGE A. C\*PHER, PhD in chemistry-, has been elected vice-prcs.-technical director, of Spauld­ing Fibre Co., Inc.. and is residing in WiJliams­\-iUe, N.Y. THOM.AS E. SHERER was appointed staff asst. to the vice-prcs, for operations, Tom is married and ha^ four children and is living in West Hartford. Conn. 
•C f Robert Klingenberger 
^ i 3405 Thames Dr. Ft. AVa>-ne, Ind. 
From the Alumni Office: 
EDW.ARD F. MOSKAL has been appointed N'ortheastem regional marketing manager for ACF Electronics, a division of ACF Industries, Inc. 
JOHN J. CASTR.\NI0 has been promoted to associate systems and procedures analyst in engineer­ing data processing at IB^L 

RICHARD E. SHIP.\1.\N has announced his en­gagement to A^Til Quiggin from the Isle of Man, England. Dick wa-. a founding member of the Na­tional Lawyers Club, Washington, D.C, and is licensed to practice with the Illinois, Indiana and L'S Supreme Courts. The\- expected to tie the knot Jan. 25 in Arlington, Va. 
JA.MES P. CARROLL has resigned from the South Bend Tribune as political writer. He is op­erating his own public relations consulting firm with headquarters in South Bend. 

SR. M. MICHAELINE SSJ. one of the Class' religious coeds with an MA in English, has been appointed full-time director of vocations for the thriving Sisters of St. Joseph of Nazareth, Midi,, resigning her educational and administrative work but continuing as executive and general chairman of the SSJ Education Board and its assns. Plan­ning to employ all communications media as well as personal contact throughout SSJ institutions in encouraging young women to God's scrx'ice. Sister is the first professionally trained specialist in the position, having taken special work in guidance and counseling at ND and the U. of Dayton be­sides scrying as teacher, superior and principal in several SSJ high schools. For more about the com­munity and its work, sec the column for tlie Class of '40. 
Harry L. Buch 
'52 
600 Board of Trade Bidg. MTiecling, W.Va. 

From the Alumni Office: JAMES PATRICK O'SHEA and Joan .Marie Capparell were married in New York last fall. DR. THOMAS B. DAY was named Mar>Iand's Outstanding Young Scientist of the Year. Tom and tvife Anne have sb: children. DR. CHARLES MICHAEL LINSE.N.MEYER is a 
JAMES P. CARROLL '51 From Politics lo P.R., a CCD Leader 
.After 13 years in the newspaper business, Jim Carroll has moved to the other side of the desk as the operator of his own public relations firm. Headquarters is in South 
fourth-year orthopedic resident at Cardinal Glen-non Hospital for Children in St. Louts, where he resides with his new bride, Virginia. Dr. JOHN 
F. CRONIN has announced the opening of his office for the practice of internal medicine in Long Beach, Cal. 
CONR.-VD \V. TETRAULT JR. has been appoint­ed as specialist for consumer sales in the Los Angeles area for the GE Wiring Dex'ice Dept., Proiidcncc, R.I. He will mate his home in the Los vVngelcs area with his wife and four cluldren. JAMES J. DO\\*NS MS '52 has been appointed principal chemist of Midwest Research Institute and resides at the .Ambassador Hotel, Kansas City, .Mo. FR.AXK P. DOYLE is now industrial rela­tions director for American-Standard's industrial div- in Dearborn, Mich. 
JOSEPH L. .\DLER spoke on "Interfaith Co­operation" at a weekly meeting of Protestant-Catholic dialogue. He is associated with the J. L. .Adler Roofing Co. and is a member of the board of directors and vice-prcs. of the George U'erden Buck Boys Club. Joe and Joanne have five diildrcn and arc active as members of the Christian Family Movement and as moderator-couple of the Young Christian Nurses. 
LEE STEIDEN showed up in Louisville as cliatrman of the Kentucky XD Club's annual Notre Damc-XaWcr outing. Lee wrote a liilarious an­nouncement of the event, whicli included the tra­ditional Softball game (featuring a "million dollar infield" and "51.50 outfield," vrith ''winners to receive the Hallowed Jug S>'mbolic of Athletic Supremacj-—the only time you'll see Notre Dame and Xavicr men fighting over an empty jug**) and dinn er (' 'ou tsianding fork-jobs by Members oi Both Organizations — See a cast of half-crazed, starved, screaming hundreds \'ie for the coveted Herman Hickman Aivard"). 
David A. McEh-aln 
•53 
2328 -Alexander Terrace Homewood, HI. 
From the .Alumni Office: JOHN J. SULLIVAN has been elected rice­

34 Notre Dame Alumnus. February-March^ 2964 
Bend where Jim was political reporter fo 
the South Bend Tribune. 
A native of Woodstock, III., Jim joinei the Tribune staff after .Army service an while still a journalism student at Notr Dame. After graduation in 1951, Jim pei formed such newspaper chores as writin; a local column and covering legislatures an( national political conventions. During of! duty hours. Jim found time to contribute ti Catholic publications, make the banquet cir cuit as a speaker and toastmaster and teac] writing courses at both St. Mar>*'s College and Notre Dame. 
A keen obser\-er of local, state and n:< rional politics, he could entertain off dut; with murderous mimicry and anecdote: about leading public figures. His Tribum reports on such political minutiae as 4th o: July picnics, the behavior of candidates, anc Dyngus Day at the West Side Democratic Club {not to mention his Sunday column: on a mythical downstate legislator) becanit local classics of poh'tical satire. 
Jim and his wife, the former Edna Putty have been active in Confraternity of Chris­tian Doctrine work in South Bend's liturgyj minded Little Flower Parish. They have sis children, four boys and two girls, ranging in age from 13 years to 18 months. The children have watched the Carrolls take a leading part in a growing movement to encourage the teaching of religion in the home. This interest has led to speaking engagements in Midwestern cities and has limited the Carroll recreational activities to gardening and do-it-yourself construction projects. 
president of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co.l New York City. 
JOH-X R. MaclNNES of LMH (Lay Mission Helpers) sent us a letter telling about his two months in the Uganda missions. Butici is 40 miles south of the equator and 4,000 feet above sea level. It is too cool for insects, but there are warm days and two-woot-blanket nights. From the time of his arrival until Easter he is learning the native language "mpora mpora" (slo""Iy). He asked for our prayers and said he would remember his friends at Christmas Mass. His address is Butiti Catholic Parish, P. O. Butiti, Uganda, East Africa. 
JOHN F. BURKE was a Democratic candidate for District Attorney in Rochester, N. Y. No elec­tion report. DR. PANOS D. BARDIS* prolific pen is still turning articles out for the quarterly SocJJr Science, as well as performing editorial chores. 
SR. MARY OLIVIA BARRETT, RSM., MS '53, PhD '57, newly elected president of St. Xavicr College, Chicago, welcoming guests at her in­augural convocation, was heard to refer emphati­callv to "our" alma mater, Notre Dame. She is a sister of TO.NLMY BARRETT '47, former ND monogrammcr. 
Congratulations to .AL .ABIOUNESS on the ac­complishments of his sister, Gloria (Mrs. Francois) Pierre, as assistant to the president of Marianopolis College, ifontreal, Quebec, Canada. 
Milton J. Bcaudinc 
'54 
76 East Court Dr. Decatur, 111. 

Now is the time for all good alumni to plan to attend their ID-year Reunion June 12-13-14. That means you. Buddy! 
Can you believe this? My uUe can't. W^hen writing the last article I completely forgot to an­nounce the birth of Michael Joseph Beaudine, born on July 24, 1963, and weighing in at 9 lbs., 15 oz. (which is sizable). BOB CRESFY and Mar>ann were blessed on Nov. 29 with an 8 lb., 7 oz. Thanksgiving package, Steven Andrew. The Crespys reside at 10410 Montrose .Ave., Bethesda. Md. 20014. 
Haven't much mail for this article. Help! Heard 

from PAT "RED" fiOLAND, No. 1 Cliekca, Hous­
ton, Tex. 77006. (Mr, Tux, thcrc*s your address.) 
^'ctvs from Fat: BOB BURNS and wife Maureen live at 33 Omega Court, North Highlands, Cal. Last word was that they had one girl and were "cxpcciing" again. JIM "2UNTZ" ZAUATANE had worked a couple of years in Germany but more recently U back in the old USA and married, Jiving at 182 Naples Rd., Brookltne, Mass. Pat was won­dering what ever happened to JIM "ZILCH" C^\NT^% last seen fat as ever in Hartford, Conn. KEN "WOODY" WOODFORD works for an elec­tronic firm in N. V. Woody remains jingle and active. BOB FOWLER is an artist living in Hous­ton after touring around most parts of this country of ours first. 
It is with deep regret that I must inform you ^ f the passing away of RAY ONOFRIO. Ray died ™fler a short illness on Oct. 14, 1963. Sur\iving 
Ray are his wife Barbara, two sons, Stephen M. and Patrick J., two brothers, four sisters and parents. Ray graduated with us in '54 with a BS jn chcm. engineering. He was residing at 1 3 Woodstock Dr., Cherry HiU, Pa. Your prayers, I'm sure, will be greatly appreciated. 
JACK PITTAS and Elaine were blessed on Oct. 10 vvith David Bernard, who checked in at D lbs., 2 oz. That makes No. 6 for them, which is no small feat. With the Reunion coming up docs anyone have 10 yet—well 9? Haw about 8? 
.•\s you may notice this article is short. No letters, I'm 5orr>'. Everyone received an up-to-date 
^^lass Roster. Look up your ole buddies and drop 
Mihcm a line and then just a postcard to me. But above all, plan to atcnd your Reunion in June and DR. DICK PILGER*s soiree after the Purdue game Oct. 3. See you then, O.K.? 
From the Alumni Office: When JOSEPH BERTRAND was allegedly "black­balled because he was a Negro" from membership in the Knights of Columbus in Chicago, the Grand 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1954 Subject: 10th Anniversary 
REUNION 

1 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 1964 
Knight and five other officers resigned- Joe, now sales director for a beauty products firm, was an All-Star basketballcr. 
JAMES F. KELLEHER has resigned his post as special asst. to the postmaster general in Washing-ion, D.C. Jim said he was considering several job oflTers. 
RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL, Prcs. of the St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co., was the main speaker at a filial report dinner meeting for the South Bend YMCA membership campaign. 
Dr. EUGENE W. HENRY, assoc. prof, of EE, coordinated ND's participation in a three-day con-Bference which included more than 200 technical papers, exhibits by 500 electronics firms and a wide range of seminars, symposia and refresher courses. 
JOHNNY LATTNER was a hero in Chicago when he discovered a fire and helped 40 persons escape injury in the apartment building bfaze on the way home from his steak house. 
FR. FRANK ZAGORC CSC has returned to the U.S. from Uganda for a well-earned leave of absence. While in the Slates he will take a course of specialized studies for the sake of his work in the Fort Portal Diocese before returning to Africa. 
ROAf MAZZOLI wrote Dick PJIgcr that TOM STUBLER died of leukemia in December, leaving a widow and five children. Dick intended to have a Mass ofTcred by the Class on the campus and 
Requested that you add your prayers. 
•E C Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridgc Blvd. Chicago, III. 

First, I want to tliank all those who turned out for the Class reunion after the UCLA game. (Look­ing back, you must admit that my picking that game for a winner was pretty shrewd! Especially after the way things went from then on.) Many of those in attendance asked that the date for this afTair, which was enthusiastically received by all those who bent elbows together, be announced well in advance. So here it is—the Purdue game on Oct. 3. We'll again have the Mahogany Room in 
SPORTS DINNER in Chicago's Conrad Hilton Hotel last December had 800 alunmi and guests hailing winners of the 1963 Rockne Awards. Candidates nonunated by all Chicagoland high schools were seated on a double dais in front of the speakers. 
the ^forris Inn. So when you order football tickets, 
be sure to include the opener with Purdue. 
Here is some of the info I picked up at the 
cocktail party. I think I have BOB ILMDINGER's 
wife, Mary .Ann, to thank for these notes. (At 
least I think she handed me these cards. It was 
the crowd, not the drinks, folks!) Bob, Mary .Ann 
and 2 children live at 39 Northridge Rd., Old 
Greenwich, Conn. He is with AMF. GEORGE 
ROONEY is right in the running in the baby derby 
after greeting twins recently. George, who lives at 
154 Riverside Dr., Basking Ridgc, N. J., is in sales 
with Decring Miliken in New York. JIM RENO 
and his wife, Pat, have three children now. Jtm 
is Boston branch manager for Associates Finance 
Co. They live at 14 Island Rd., Franklin, Mass. 
My informant added that BOB BENSON in Piano. 
Tex., recently welcomed hJs first child, a boy. Bob's 
with Barbizon Corp. in a sales capacity. 
PETE RITTENHOUSE aUo was on hand. Pete 
has three girls and a boy. He's in sales with E. E. 
Houghton & Co. Pete lives at 550 W. 6th, Mish­
awaka. DICK G.AUTHIER, who also is the proud 
napa of five, still was taking hows for his latest 
addition. DENNIS LAUGHLIN, who is art di­
rector for WNDU-TV, lent a Htllc local flavor to 
the gathering. Dennis and his wife Joan, who have 
two children, reside at 3003 Salem Dr. 
PETE RITTEN, who is a broker in Minneapolis, 
reports that he has three boys now. The Rjttens 
live at 5206 Hampshire Dr., Minneapolis. JIM 
BROUGHTON was the life of the parly, and the 
reason soon became apparent—he's still a bachelor! 
Jim's in the Service Dinsion of General Motors in 
Detroit, but the girls call hJm at 30 Emmons Ct., 
Wyandotte, Mich. 
TO.M PETTERSCH is with the accounting firm of Ernst & Ernst tn Grand Raptds (4430 Carrick SE). Tom has two children. ED PREIN, another Grand Rapids resident (4991 BIufT Drive NE), is a consulting engineer. 
Back to the Detroit gang for a minutf. BOB McCARREN is another GM executive. When we met in October, Bob had two ofTspring. The post­man brings his mail to 18919 Mallina, Detroit. JIM KORTE is with Master Pneumatic in Detroit. Jim, wife, and two kids live at 1265 Bcaconsficld Rd., Grossc Pointc. 
It was good to see JIM CAHlLh again, and I must admit he looked healthy. Jim, who has one boy, is controller for White .Adverstising. He lives at 444 Lake St., Crown Point, Ind. JOE KEAR­NEY, another guy I hadn't seen for some time* is a neighbor at 2335 Marcy, Evanston, III. He is with Northwestern Heating & Plumbing. .Another Evanslonian is TOM POAVERS, who is an educa­tional textbook salesman with Scott, Forcsman & Co. Tom has five children. 
DICK G.ABERIK, who coached at Harrison High School here in Chicago, also was on deck. JACK­SON FLYNN, who has four children, is an in­dustrial engineer with General Foods Corp. I don't knoiv how he linds time to work on his master's degree at the University of Chicago on the side. He and his wife, Jane, live at 2551 W. lOQth PI., Chicago. 
Stop the presses! MARTY CULHANE just shot 
into the number one spot in the baby sweepstakes 
according to my files with another set of twins. 
Marty now is the proud father of seven frisky boys! 
As Mel Allen would say. How .About That?! 
Big MIKE HEGARTY drove in from Detroit 
for the reunion. He's a barrister and finally is 
going to take the plunge into matrimony. BOB 
GERVAIS was in from L.A and passed along 
regards from ED (OX) FOX. 
Others Irow. the Windy Citv were PAT SHEE­
HAN, RICK HICKS, TOM GRODEN, PHIL 
SHERIDAN, JOHN WEITHERS and ED KELLY. 
Missed at the reunion, however, were sucli re­
nowned organizers as TOM BOSSE, ROY BEL­
KNAP. TOSf IVELLY, JOE ALADIGAN and BUD 
LaLONDE. Sec you Oct. 3, Gentlemen! 
Regulars from the Chicago area at the reunion 
included: FRANK MAIER. FRANK LOLLI, MIKE 
KELLY, TIM DEVEREUX, MIKE WARD, 
STEVE REBORA, JERRY PR.ASSAS, DICK 
COOK, and GEORGE SHELTON. I must take 
time here to thank Neal Halloran for hustling 
around and picking up the information cards. So 
mark the Purdue game (Oct. 3) on your calendar 
right now and let's double the crowd next year. 
Tlie letter of the cv'cle award goes to BILL 
CLUSSERATH this time. Bill, *vho was in the 
Program for Administrators, checks in after eight 
vears. He has enjoved keepinc up with guys like 
MARTY CULHANE, FRED' GALIONE, ROY 
BELKNAP, TOM IGLESKI and JACK FLYNN 
through this column. Bill married hts wife, 
Barbara, in 1958 and they now have four children. 
The couple moved from Detroit to Tacoma (8908 
S. 41st St.) in 1962, and he now is credit manager for a clothing company. 
Bill passes along these news notes. BOB M.AL­LON is operating his family's Ford agcncN" in Ta­coma. He is married and has two kids. Bob is very active on Tacoma's Civic .Appreciation Committee. JOHN VINCENX who lives in Olympia, Wash., works for Uarco business forms company. He is the district salesman for Western Washington. 
MIKE MOYER wrote Bill from Richardson, Tex., where he is selling multitypewritcrs for IBM. Mike has three boys. Bill also corresponds with PAUL HAUHNAR in India. Paul is in the Indian government, and would like to receive magazines and books because his people want to know about the US. His address is Paul Z. Hauhnar, Kuli­kawn, Aij'al, Mtzo District, .Assam, India. In­cidentally, Paul has sLx children now. 
Received a nice letter from JOE ifcGR.AW to say that he couldn't make it up from Tulsa (2431 E. 20th St.) for the Class reunion. Joe said that he was planning a \-acatton in Europe in Januar\'. He said that he had Wsited his old roomie, CH.ARLEY POLLNOW, in St. Louis. Charley has two chil­dren. >VhiIc in St. Louis, Joe had dinner with AL Vrrr and luoch with JOE MCGLYNN. Joe. who was in BOB McGRATH'S xveddlng party last year in New York. sa>*s that the long-legged bird is winging toward the McGrath household. M.ATT SCHUMACHER, who is a bank examiner in Oklahoma Ctt>*, often drops in on Joe. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus., February-March^ 1964 35 
Joe added that GAVIN' KIXG'S father died Oct. 4 at the age of 86. For that reason. Gavin w-as unable to attend the class reunion, but he did send a tetegram that arrived just an hour after the game ended. Sandra and 1 met Gavin later in the Morris inn in the season after a game. Father O'Donncll said a special Alass on campus Dec. 7 for ^Ir. King and the mother of AL KAELIN, who died Oct. 26. Our deepest sympathy to both classmates. 
Before I leave last fall** fooibal] season, J do w-ant to type out a few notes that 1 found on a piece of paper m the comer of the desk. Saw RON MOTTL, the greatest right-hander in the game, and WILLIE REALE, who would have been this country's greatest Davis Cup pJaycr if he hadn't been so modest, across the stands at the us e game, (That's the only game that 1 want to remember!) 
JIM EHRET, who had just flown in from his teaching duties with the NavA- at Memphis, sat right In front of us when the Midshipmen gave us tlie business. I must admit that he's the only guy I know who brings two coats to a game. After the first half, Jim xvent out to the car and came back in with a heavier overcoat. Tliosc Xa\y guys arc pretty smart, but tl)e>* don't have to pay for excess baggage Hkc the rest of us peasants. Jim mentioned that he ran into TO.M DRISCOLL on his way into the stadium. 
JERRY HUGHES should be about halfway through his MA work in international relations at San Francisco State College by the time this column appears. When he finishes at Frisco. Jerrj* will go into the intelligence field, although he may put in for air-attaclie work. 
JIM LUOTTO, who had been teaching English at tlic Seminary in Chicago, notv is shaping up those rich suburban kids at Glenbrook Xorth. or some sucli new million-dollar palace. He still has the guitar, though, and entertains friends and foes. 
Incidentally, the ne.Kt meeting of Organization '55, the Chicago area class clan, will be in Johnny Lattners Steak House on Madison Street March 24. The one after that will be Mav 19, according to MIKE KELLY. 
ED RHOMBERG, who was in the engineering department at Io%t'a State, now is working and teaching at Albuquerque. DR. ED TOOMEY, who had been stationed in New York by the Air Force, now gets his mail at 814 Hartford Ave., Prondcnce, R.I. 
In fact, Xew York Bgures in quite a bit of shift­ing and shuffling bv members of our class. JI.M HESBURGH moved from Orchard Park. X. Y.. to 118 Alden St., Sayre, Pa. BOB FARXBAUGH left Ft. \Va\-ne for 607 Riverside Ave., Scotia, K. Y. DON SILEO, the man who always was one step ahead of the game, now lives at 10390 Main St., Buffalo. 
DAVE WEID.MANX, on tlie other Iiand, left Syracuse for Melrose, Mass. (457 Pleasant St.) CHUCK LAIRD, who must have had enough of those grits in Tennessee, settled at 545 'W'oodu'ard Ave., X. Tonawanda. X. Y. DOXX DUFFY, the •old redhead, pulled out of Xew York for a fanc>' address in Bcihcsda. Md, (6004 Grcentrcc Rd.). 
LEO CALLAGH.-VX, the friendliest momlni; checker in the business, moved from Clifton, X\ J-, 
DENVER—Presentation of the Denver ND CluVs annual scholarship award was made by Scholarship Chairman Carl Eibcrger *52 
(center) to William Durlin (left) of Regis High School and 2nd place winner Roger Bartholonic^v of Strasburg, Colorado. 

to 3025 Concord, Trenton, Mich. DR. JIM CAN­TRILL now kicks off Ms sh'ppers at 20 Schermer­hom Pk., Lenox, Mass., after a stint in Covington, Ky. JOHN* MUSOLIXO left our fair state of Illinois (Quinc>-} for Dayton (1935 Riverside Dr.). JIM DUFF\*, who left sunny California some montfis ago, also is in Dayton now (32S Rybum .•\ve.). BILL GRADY now gets his mail at 10 Lansdowne Rd., Hamden, Conn. 
Tfie ifayo Clinic has figured in the lives of two of our classmates. DR. KEVIX O'DONNELL Is up In Rochester now, and he can be reached at S99-G Homestead Village Lane. SE. DR. DOS SAXTSCHI is back in Chicago Heights (1307 Pia­centi Lane) after a tour of duty in Rochester. 
Tliis column U being ii-rittcn »vcH in adxuncc at Christmas, but FRANK BURKE Is in with his card already. .•\I1 other Christmas cards (and I hope there arc zillions) will be mentioned In the next column. Xow I'm off to get my smallpox shot and a holiday ("acation In Mcvico City and .\capulco. A happy 1964 to you and yours! 
From the Alumni Office: 

J.AMES S. IRUTX has accepted appointment as lecturer on law at the College of Law, U. of Cincinnati, and is teaching the subject of pro­cedure. Jim received the highest grade In the state in the Ohio bar cvaniinatlon. In '6I-'62 he held a teaching fellowship and was a graduate student at tile School of Law, X'orthwestcrn U. Since June of *62 he has been law clerk to a U.S. Dtst. Court Judge. ^ 
Congratulations to EUGENE CARRABINE for winning the 2nd dist. council seat in Gary. 
D.\NIEL J. BURKE, formerly of Youngstown and East Orange, X*. J., returned from Europe to the States to get married and then took his bride back to Lucerne, Switzerland, to live where he is employed as a salesman for Commercial Sheani}s & Stamping Co. 
*CL Alvin D. Vitt 90 4 Windnish Creek W. 
St. Louis, Mo. €) 

From the Alumni OfHce: 
AL SZEWCZYK of mechanical engineering lias written a paper on *'Combincd Forced -and Free-Convection Laminar Flow" for presentation at the national ASME meetings and reprinting in the society's Journal. 
DR. FREDERICK J. CROSSOX PhD '56 is co­editor of a new book The Modeling of Mind, Com­puters and Intelligence (UND Press). 
Secretary ALVIX D. VITT has been appointed asst. real estate officer of Mercantile Trust Co., St. Louis, Mo., and uill continue his present duties a<. mortgage loan representative. • %^j 
PAUL A. RENSTRO.M has been promoted to asst. cashier in the commercial banking div. at Wells Fargo Bank's San Francisco head office. Paul and X'anc>* have five children. 
FRANK J. TONINI of Statcn Island. X.Y., has been 5w*orn in as a junior officer trainee for the US Informatmn .-\gcnc>'. .After a six-month training program at the headquarters In Washington, he will be given a 10-month period of **on the job training" at an overseas post before being assigned to a regular position with USI.A,. His mission is to help achieve US foreign polic>' objectives through the use of press, radio, TV, films, libraiics, the arts and, most Important, personal contact overseas. 
•C 7 Jo**" P- Mc'^fcel 
« ' 30 E. 42nd Si. New York, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Oflicc: 
On .Vovtmbcr 23 KE.V.\ETH G. .McCO.VNELL (Uicorctical and applied mechanics) and ALLEN C. KRYGER (organic chcmistr>') recci^d their mas­ter's from Iow:t Stale U. 
Dr. JOSEPH A. McMAHON is no«-a resident in the Second Surgical Div. of Bellcvue Hospital. 
FRANK G. LUNDEN has been appointed a fluorocarbon salesman by Kaiser Chemicals. Div. of Kaiser Alum. & Cliem. Corp. in the Xew YoiUp, area, with offices in Hillside. S'.J. V 
CHRISTIAN FAMILY Movement's South Bend-Mishawaka Federation held its seventh annual International Student Dinner on the ND campus, attended by 100 Notre Dame-St. Mary's students from overseas who entertained with an "international hootenanny." At left Bumie Bauer '38 and wife Helen confer with students from India, the Philippines and Latin America. At right Dick Con­nelly of the Student Commission is happily mobbed by scnoritas from St. Mary's Academy. Founded by ND men after WW II, CFM has spread to 50 states and 30 countries with its international apostolate "for happier families." 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 196-t C' 
•rifi»"**^i»»Wivj-»^t3m»iM«^ifc 
FR. ROBERT MALONE CSC, Uganda, Africa, 

has been recruited by BISHOP McCAULEY '30 to I jg^ e temporarily as bis secretary. They are hoping ! Wt lay missionary can be found soon because priests I are too scarce in that part of the world to use 
ihem for secretaries—even bishop's secretaries, 
DANIEL P. BERGEN is now asst. dean of the SchooUof Library Science, Syracuse, U., Syracuse. ( N'-V. 
Secretary JOHN McMEEL suffered from a lack of pre-Christmas mail, since the Alumni Office couldn't get a mailing out to classmates before this issue's deadline. How about volunteering some information to the address above? 
•C O J/Lt- Arthur L. Roulc, Jr. 
^^ 343rd Air Base Squadron Box 74 Duluth, Minn. 

Gentlemen, a crisb is at hand! Unless you begin to send news for this column, we may as well dis­card our column heading, forfeit our space to the classes of '57 and '59 and simply go out of busi­ness. You know, it doesn't take any more than five minutes of your time to sit down and scribble a few notes on a postcard. We don't ask for lengthy letters or news worthy of the pages of 
^Time—just a line or two to let us know where you "r e and what you are doing. So how about it? 
Here is the news we have. ED MEELL dropped a line from 4421 Country Club Dr., Pittsburgh 36, reported that be was married in 1D60 to Miss Carole Dclach and they now have two sons, David (2/2) and Tim (1/2). Ed is teaching at Mt. Lebanon High Scliool in suburban Pittsburgh as well as coaching track. In addition he is working toward a master's degree in history at Duquesne. Ed was recently elected to Phi Alpha Thcta. the national history honor society. 
JIM KING who left ND after our Junior year to enter med sdiool at St. Louts U., recently wrote with tlie following news. He graduated from med school in 1961, and then interned at St. Louis U. Hospital. He is presently in his second year of residency at University Hospital of Cleveland. Jim 
^ s married and has a thrcc-ycar-old daughter. The WCings should have had their second child by the time of this reading. 
Jim met PAT HOGAN in South Bend this fall after the Southern Cal game. Pat was married last June and is now in hb second year of surgical residency in Mtttvaukcc. Jim also reports that TOM THOMAS graduated from Georgetown Med School in 1962 and Is now at Cleveland Metropolitan Hospital (residency); is married and has a ten-month-old daughter. Jim King's address: SB23 fCrakow Ave., Cteveland 5. 
Finally, JOHN DUNN wrote in October with the sad news of his father's passing. Your prayers would be appreciated. John also mentioned that he had seen MIKE SHANNON in November. Mike is with Gulf Oil in Houston. 
That's all we have. Please take the time to help us do better in the future. The next deadline for copy is April 1, xvhich means that your cards and letters should be in my hands at least a week before that date. 
From the Alumni Office: 
' RICHARD E. BREUNER is presently attending the grad div. of Wharton School of finance and commerce, U. of Pa. 
EDWARD J. CAREN JR. is no^v working for Dow Chemical Company's Rocky Flats div. near Denver as a design engineer in the Engineering Process Dcpt. 
H 1/Lt RICHARD A. DiCAMILLO has graduated from the USAF Squadron Officer School at thr Air University at Mxwvell AFB, Ala. 
RICHARD T . COLGAN» PhD candidate at Southern Illinois U., was recently a^%-arded a grant from the Willis E. and E. M. Clark Foundation for the statistical processing of his doctoral disserta­tion'—"A Longitudinal Study of the Prognostic Value of Teacher Judgment Vs. Objective Test Data With Respect to College Success." 
JOHN J. KfERTES was elected asst. Wcc-prcs. of the Fourth Natl. Bank & Trust Co., Wichita, Kan. He is one of the youngest members of the officer stafT. He resides in Wicliita wjih his wife, Mary, and tliree daughters: Teresa, 5; Patricia. 3; and Margaret Ann. 2. 
MILWAUKEE—At a lively holiday dance (clockwise from lower left) students Bmce O^NciIl and Tom Langenfeld joined alumni Tom Mulcahy, Tom McNiJty and V.-P. Jidm Scblocgcl, chairman, as straight men for comedian Jimmy "Durante^ MorteU. At right O'Neill and date do the t^vist as the undergrads get a chance to shine. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To:ND Class of 1959 
Subject: 5th Anniversary 
REUNION 
Weekend—June 12-13-14 
1964 
Dennis M. Ncad '59 6121 Robtson Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

Once again it is time for the Kilgallen special, and thanks to those of you who have sent me letters. I too must open the column at the risk of being tiresome in a much-too-familiar refrain —we need more news. Many of you have accepted new jobs, have new additions to the family, so how about letting us share your good news. To reiterate some class reunion facts to you, the dates are June 12-13-14; class dinners on Friday; Class Masses, photograplis, and other programs on Satur­day. Tlte Halls av*ai]able at this time are Alumm, Dillon, Howard, Lyons and Morrissey. The general reunion fee (covering room, most meals, beverages, etc.) will probably be around ^.00 . Plans still are being made by the incumbent Class Officers as to the election of new Class Officers — il)is will either be done prior to or at the reunion. There will be more about reunion plans in the next column — X look forward to these three days, especially find­ing out what the new "era of Ara*' will provide, [fere is the net^-s I have collected since the last issue: 
GENE VIRTUOSO — Gene is the vicc-prcs. of Virtuoso BIdg. Co. Inc. and Is also a Ist Lt. in the New York National Guard and Executive ofiiccr of Hq. Co., 174lh Armor. He was married in the fall of 1962 to Elizabeth Apen — they recently had a first child, a daughter Maria Ann. 
FCARL SfANGOLD —Kari is at Cornell Univer­sity Medical College in New York City and will receive his MD next June. He was married in Decatur, HI., in December, '62, to Janet Lee Unser and last October was presented with a son, Paul Christopher. He has seen many of our classmates including BARRY VOIGHT, NEAL L.VMPING, ED PAULSON. RALPH DANGEL^fAlER. JACK DOLAN and LOU KEEGAN. AL HAVERKAMP and RICK GRIMLER came to the wedding last December. 
LOU VON HAGEN—was recently married to Theresa Sultcra at Fort Riley, Kan,, and is now working for Price Watcrhouse & Co. in Cleveland, Ohio. 
JOE MAIER — Many thanks for your letter, Joe. Joe was married on August 3 to Colleen Coylc of Madison, Wis.; he is now residing in Oak Park, III., and is working for the Quaker Oats Co. in the advertising dcpt. 
MIKE SEAMAN — married to the former Jerry Lauerman. sistci- of JOHN LAUERMAN of our Class; they are expecting their first child in the 
spring. 
TOM MCDONALD —U employed at Union Tank Car Corp. in Chicago; Both he and Mike Seaman arc going to graduate school at Chicago U. at night. 
BILL MORENCV —Bill is married, and he mnd his wife just had their second cliild — he is work­ing Tor the Equirahle Assurance Society of America, as is JOE GALVIN. Joe and his wife are expecting their second cfiild in February. BOB JANC^KI u now a futl-dedged lawyer, is married and now living in Oak Park. 
WARREN DELANEY—is working for an adver­tising agency in Boston. 
BOB BURNS — was married last De c and is nmv the public relations director for the St. Petersburg, Fla., Chamber of Commerce. 
TOM MacLENNAN is in-the Air Force and expects to receive his captain's bars in January; he and his wife have three cliildrcn. 
JOHN PCTER MORAN is attending Uw school at Catholic U. in Washington and has cne more year starting this Sept. They are proud pt rents of a boy and a girl. 
TERRY LAMB is in a training program il Riggs National Bank of D.C.; has a lovely bach&or fiat in D.C. 
JOHN HAVtVARD is working for Senator Can­non of Nevada and going to Gcorgetotvn Law School at night. He and his wife Mary Bctli just had a baby girl. 
STEWART PAUL is married and has one tiild 
— he is working and living in Bcthesda, Md. 
MARTY MALONEY—working for Riclow r's .Atomic reactor program in Pennsylvania and, I understand, is doing extremely well. 
JOE HARRISON —working for Republican N ­lional HQ; he got his master's in Political Sciene at the U. of Tcnn. 
JOE O'CONNOR is on a three-year grant at th« 
U. of Va. in Russian studies. He spent last sum* mcr in Russia and finishes his MA thesis this fall. DAVE COSTELLO i$ his roommate at the U. of Va. and both are doing very well in the program. 
TONY GRAHAM —working somewhere in D.C; just finished Harvard Business School aloDg* with BILL McCOLLOUGH. 
HUGH MURPHY —as far as I know Hugh h still teaching school in Rome and traveling all over the globe in his spare time. 
BOB JOHNSTON married a girl from Austria and now has two girls; works tor a bank in Mil­waukee in a public-relations capacity. 
FRANK MOONEY just finished year No. 2 at Fordham Law School — recently attended JACK FOX's wedding at Georgetown Medical School. 
SHANNON SMITH is now working for the Ditto Corp. here in Cincinnati and his bachelor days seaa limited. 
From the Alumm Office: TERRANCE M. WILSEY, ol Maywood. lU., w a 
Noire Dame Atumnusy February-March, 1964 37 
the first priest to be ordained in Moreau Seminary, December 21. GERALD T. PAPEX of Sheridan. Ore. was ordained in Portland on the same day. Sex'cral thousand miles aw-av in Santiago, Chile, SERGIO CHONCHA (Grad Student '59) was also ordained. All three were classmates at the Holy Cross Fathers seminar^' in Santiago, Chile. 
DR. ALBERT D. HAVERK.AMP is now inumini: at Los Angeles County Hospital. 
Presently attending the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, U. of Pa., arc MARK F. KES­SENICH and JOHN T. von LUHRTE. VICTOR 
H. SfARAGNI is planning a May »vcdding to Do­lores Annette Daniels. Vic has been studying at thr XYXJ Management Institute, the Rutgers Graduate Sclioo] of Modem Languages and the U. of Ntcxico. 
WILLIAM H. McCULLOUGH JR. is with Talon Inc., X.V., and is a lieutenant in the Xaval Rescr\c. JOHN BUCK CONNELL JR. is with the General Foods Corp. in N.Y. 
FR. JOHN A. 0*BRIEN LLD '59, resident writer and research prof of theolog>- at ND, has been elected to the American Foundation of Religion and Psychiatry*. Fr. O'Brien has proposed a White House conference to discuss measures that would "help the undcrdefcloped nations deal effectively with tlieir urgent population problems." He also called on the federal government "to conduct a crash research program on human reproduction in all its phases." Fr. O'Brien made the two pro­posals in an article, "Let's End the War Over Birth Control," which appeared simultaneously in recent issues of the Christian Century and the Aw Maria. 
liLQ John F. Geier 1045 Linden Avc-Wilmette, LI. 
From ihc Alumni Office; l/Lt. JOSEPH M. LUKITSCH rcccjicd a cita­tion for meritorious scr\'icc in recognition of his outstanding work in family-housing administration at Fort Carson. He will attend Army schools before rcporlini to Vict Nam some time this year. I/Lt. LAWRENCE H- KYTE JR. has completed a nine-week clhccr orientation course at the Transporta­tion Center, Fort Euslis, Va. USMC Lt. JOSEPH 
F. COOPER tied tlie neddJng knot with Judith Eva ScwcU and is stationed at Camp Lcjeune, N.C., where the couple arc living. 
WILLLVM L. HERGENROTHER received his PhD in organic chemistry at ND last June and is now working for Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. JOSEPH P. MARTIN received a degree from the U. of Micliigan Law School and is now at the London School of Economics under a Ford Founda­tion grant. 
DR. LESTER H. L.ANGE, head of the San Jose State College math dcpt., recently had his methods and previous proofs of theorems published in a Soviet math journal. They were previously published in Japanese and French math journals. 
A letter from PETER A. GENIESSE: "Since graduation in June, '60, I worked six months for the South Bend Tribune; put in sue months of active duty in the Army at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., as a private; and worked for about 20 months as news editor (among other titles) for a Catholic iveckly — The Green Bay (Ws.) Register. 
"Last June I joined an unbrella-t>-pc organiza­tion called PAVL.A, Papal Volunteers for Latin America. After four months of intensive language and culture studies at the Center of Intercultural Formation, Cucrnavaca, Mexico, I left (Oct. 11) for my mission assignment in Antofagasta, Chile. 
"Here, in the 'largest dry area on earth,' I am scheduled to teach English and religion in a high school and do youth and social work. And there's mtich to be done in the northern end of this string­bean-shapcd countr>'." 
JOSEPH M. KRUPP was married recently to a lass from Ireland and London, Miss Maureen Daly. 
• * I Nick Palihnich 34 Dartmouth Rd. West Orange N.J. 
The supply of alumni news for the w-riting of the Dec issue of the ALUMNUS ^vas certainly not what one could term "an overabundance," however I feel that this was due mainly to the short period of time that had elapsed between the writing of this and the previous column. 

The most outstanding item of alumni news for the fall season, and the major source of material for the WTiting of this column, came as a result of the first Class of '61 Alumni Reunion. The affair took place immediately following the Notre 
REQUIEM MASS for President John F. Kennedy 1X.D '50 was celebrated Nov. 26 in f ) Stepan Student Activities Center with ROTC honor guards and a eulogy by Fr. Joyce with its text the 129th psalm: "Dc profundis clamavi ad Te, Domine.'* 
Dame-S>Tacuse football game at Yankee Stadium, 
New York City. The party was staged in the Wedge-
wood Room of the Grand Concourse Hotel and 
featured music, dancing, and an abundant supply 
of alcoholic beverages. The event was publicized 
through the distribution of postcards and an an­
nouncement during the course of the ball game. I 
would like to thank those members of the class 
who were able to attend the reunion (attendance 
numbered about 150), I am sure that if it meant 
seeing only one face out of the past, that was not 
expected, then the end result of the reunion was 
a worthwhile experience for all. 
I would like at least to try and mention all of 
the class members present at the affair; if. as 1 
know I will, I miss a few of the names, I assure 
you It is not through intent but only through a 
poor memory. 
First to arrive on the scene was the dclecation 
from Georsetown Law School; former SBP JOHN 
KEEGAN, BOB FISCHER, BERNIE CRAIG, and 
a few "subway alumni"; JIM O'MALLEY, now 
working in New York City; BOB COYLE, collec­
ting the admission fees at the door and looking as 
though life at CathoYic U. Law really agrees with 
him. D.\VE McCANN, with the gray hair and the 
very beautiful date from the College of Steubenville, 
Ohio, is right at the top of his class at Fordham 
Law, the logical reason for the above-mentioned 
hair explained by the constant number of hours on 
the books. 1 think that last statement is worth at 
least five, Ma c 
ART ARMENTO caught the only Thanksgiring Day stagecoach out of Alpine, N.J., and \\"as a sur­prise x'isitor at the party. U'c never thought he would make it out of the hills. Art is currently selling up a storm for Door-O-Matic in the northern New Jersey area. Dorotliy and GEORGE LESNIK, among the first to appear; DICK BALLOT, makinit a quick appearance; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BERNAT (married life has really agreed with this guy). 
MIKE "JUAN'* BRENN.W made the trip into Nciv York from ^Vcst Point, tvlicrc he is currently sen'ing out a term in the Marines. Still the best-looking guy in the Class, he hasn't changed a bit. JIM BROGAN, a real surprise; PAT BURKE, someone I knew would be there. 
TONY CHESSICK and DOUG KOCH, former roommMes at ND, and KEN BROWN, whom I didn't even get a chance to speak with. FRANK DINGER and DICK FAVA; BILL GALVIN, who has temporarily foregone law school and is now learning a little about the New York consumer while at Afacy's. Nci*- York. Mr. and Mrs. PAT HICKEY and JOHN HOEY, who just had time to say' hello. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN JULIANO talking over old times with the Alumni Hall crew. DAVE HUDSON currently (vorking on his PhD at Columbia; TOM FAY and RAY TRANCE, Tom now studying law at Rutgers in New Jersey. DAN LUECKE came all the way into New York for the ball game; 
ANGE MANES, who I know enjoyed himself as 
much as anyone at the party; ED McANANEY, in 
his last year of graduate work at Harvard. 
A real surprise to me, and a face out of the past 
that I spoke of earlier in the column, was NORM 
ORNELLAS, about the last person I ever expected 
to See at the reunion. Norm is originally from 
Honolulu and one of my first acquaintances at 
ND. DON VECKERELLI just about completes the 
list of names that I can recall at the affair. Once 
again I thank all who attended, and hope that w . 
have the opportunity for a repeat performance iW. * 
the not-to-distant future. 
I have just a few items from the regular Class 
news. ALDO SAL A is in his final year of Law 

School at Rutgers m New Jersey. JOHN SAN­
FACON is teaching school in Summit, N.J. 

CHARLES BUCKLEY is in his third year of medi­
cal school at Georgetown. Last June he was mar­
ried to Miss Peggy Ann Lyden in Youngstown, O. 
Pat and BILL HALL were blessed with the birth 
of a girl, Elizabeth Ann, on Oct. 17, 1963. 
GEORGE MAHAN was married to Miss Lois 
Bibby on Nov. 23, 1963, in Charleston, \\\ Va. ­
George, having completed graduate work at West 
Virginia U., is now a general sales representative 
in Spencer for Humble Oil and Refining Co. 
MIKE ESPOSITO is working for Chase Manhatta([ 
Bank in Neu* York City; recently Mike and hi* 
wife were blessed with the birth of a baby boy. 
Mike Jr., in Nov. 
On Dec 28. 1963, BOB FISHER was to be mar­

ried to Miss Terry Lynn of Phoenix, Ariz. Bob has 
asked me to be an usher in the %*'edding, so I've 
planned to travel to Phoenix on the 27th. I wouldn't 
miss the Fish's wedding for the world. ! 
As a final item in this current issue of the j ALUMNUS, a special note of congratulations to | .MYRON "MO " POTTIOS on his selection by the players of the NFL as a first-team member of the All-Pro All-Stars. Quite a tribute when you con­sider the class the guy is traveling in. .Also to BILL "RED" MACK, who starred for the Pitts­burgh Stcelers along with "Mo" in their quest foi•^ the Eastern title of the NFL. ^ ' 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT M. BRADLEY and PHILIP F. SCHUSTER are presently attending the grad div. of the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce. 
U. oF Pa. LOUIS NEEB is a management intern for the General Sertices Administration of the Chicago Ciril Scr\'ice Region. ERNEST S. ZAVODNYIK is now a third-year student at ND Law School and has announced his engagement to a graduate of St. Mary*s College, 
^n. JAMES J. D^n'ER is now a student at Rut­gers Law School and is engaged to Miss Nardlne 
C. Tomambe. 
38 NotT£ Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 
O 
'Al ^^^ ^' Mordand 
Assistant County Attorney 

^ Law WapcUo County Court House Ottumwa, Iowa 
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year be­latedly, to all of our Class and their families. No doubt this will again reach you a little fate, but we are doing our best to keep on schedule. 
A Christmas card from JACK HOFPER ct al. announces that Jack is now with the trust dcpt. of the Securitj- First National Bank ot Los Angeles, and their new address is 14331 Frandsquitt, Bald-Win Park, Cal. JIM CASEY is now practicing with HARRY CONTOS '59 in Kalamazoo, Mich., ac­cording to GARY HUMBLE, whom I ran into in 
^ ^ local lounge here in Ottumwa. Gary also said ^a t LARRY HOWARD and Marilyn arc the exhibitors of Nancy Ann, born on Oct. 16 last. 
TONY BONNIWELL reports that he has been admitted to practice in Texas and plans to stay there. He will be with Fred C. Auforth, Suite 38, Chicago Btdg., 3105 Leopard St., Corpus Christi. Tony, Lynn and family (including Chas. .\. Bonni­wcU IV, born Oct. 26, *63), will be living at 318 Sugcs St., in that city. CAL ABOOD %vas married to Judith Marie Dettor at ND on June 29, 1963. I would like to find out something about the fol­lowing gentlemen: BESKE, BYRNE, COFFEE (G.ASHER), FITZPATRICK, GUENTHER, HOR­\'ATH. LARK, AMYER. O'BRIEN (DAN), 
^^'HITE. Where are you? What are you doing? 
Overheard in the courtroom: "Well, the jur>­didn't give me as much as I expected, and I didn't expect that they would." C'est la guerre. 
•# ^ Terrence McCarthy 23420 Wellington Mt. Clements^ Mich. 

From the .Alumni O/Hcc: 
mLLIAM A. DODD, LEO C. DROZESKI JR., JOHN W. GOODWINE, MICHAEL J. HART, JOHN J. HUGHES, BRENDAN P. McCR.\NE, TERRENCE J- McGLlNN, JAMES R. OLSON, FRANK J. WAGNER and JOSEPH F. WHITE are 
Mrcscnily attending the grad dlv. of the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, U. of Pa. 
TONY BILL stopped off en route to New York to visit with the dean, who married him and his wife Toni. He'll be a father in May. 
WILLIAM O'CONNOR HARNISCH was married in the summer of '63 and is now attending George* town Law School. 
USMC Lt. MICHAEL J. McDONALD is in group supply at Atsugi, Japan, for the next year after completing his training at Quantlco, Va., in December. FREDERICK J. NEMEC recently com­pleted 23 weeks of intensive training in tactics, lead­ership, logistics and administration at the Artiller>­and Missile Center, Fort Sill, Okla., early in Sept. 
^n d was commissioned a 2/Lt. US/\F 2/Lt. JOHN 
^T . McGRATH received the Commander's Trophy at James Connaly AFB, Tex., as the honor gradu­ate of navigator training at the same time he re­ceived hb silver wings. He is being sent to Mather AFB, Cal., for advanced training. At Olmstcad AFB, Pa., 2/Lt, THOMAS F. NOONAN has com­pleted a specialized course in IBM electronic com­puters, now being utilized by AF Logistic* Com­mand units. Army launcher platoon leader 2/Lt. HAROLD E. VERTIN JR. completed four weeks extensive field training — involving simulated com­bat operations including live firings, night maneuvers, road movements and defensive tact'tcs — near Grafenwohr, Germany, where he is stationed. Four members of the class, all 2/Lts., have received their 
«
i]ots' wings upon graduation from flight training nd have flown in the newest jet trainers, as well as recei\ing spcdal academic and military training during the course. CHARLES F. AUGUSTINE re­ceived his wings St Laredo AFB, Tex., and went to K. L Sa»*yer AFB, Mich., to fly KC-135 air­craft. DENNIS P. MADDEN graduated at Moody AFB, Ga. and was assigned to Hill AFB, Utah. JOHN D. BUTLER'S wings were received at Vance AFB, Okla., and he is now at Lincoln AFB, Xeb., flying B-47 aircraft. At Laughlin AFB, TM.. JOHN M. BECKMAN received his wings and has been assigned to Barksdale AFB, La., to 0y B-52 aircraft. 
Ens. JAMES E. FITCH is stationed aboard the USS Plymouth Rock at Norfolk, Va. Jim has a wife, as of last Oct. 26, to wait at Virginia Beach for his ship to come home. 
'iL9 ^^^ ^' Rooncy «» • 700 Victory Blvd. Law Staten Island, L.I., N.Y. 

Discovered Ens. MIKE KELLY living about one 
mite Away on Staten Island. To his fellow ensigns 
Mike is known as the Buddha, and the house is 
known as the Monastery. Mike, stationed at 
Bayonne, N.J., stated he recently helped Peg and 
BILL MURPHY move into their new home in 
Southern New Jersey. 
Called to the forty-yard line of duty, many old 
faces appeared at llte Notre Dame-Syracuse game 
on Thanksgiving Day. Seen at the rally held the 
night before at the Waldorf were JOHN COS­
TELLO, ED KEARSE, and TERRY TERRANOVA. 
John is completing his New Jersey clerkship, while 
Ed has commenced the practice of lau* Jn upstate 
New York. A PhD in psychology from Syracuse is 
only months away for Terry. Understand that sev­
eral of the Feds from Washington—PAUL DRIS­
COLL, BUDDY MALONE, etc. — were up for the 
game, although I didn't get to sec any of them. 
Short circuit at the Sheraton Motor Inn: seated 
at the revolving bar after the game were BILL 
KELLY, who made the long trek from South Bend 
with his fiancee Sarah, and JOE BIRMINGHAM, 
who is now associated with United States Lines. Bill 
mentioned that Karen and TIM GALVIN and 
daughter have become homeowners in Muncie, Ind. 
Received a note from ST^VN PECORA announc­
ing the opening of his office in the Super Duper 
Plaza, 200 W. Washington Street, Bradford, Pa. 
First disbursement: check to ED MAL.\PIT cov­
ering loss sustained on Thanksgiving Day. Hope 
your .\ferr^' was very! 
Frank P. Oicello 
'63 
218 Palmer Hill Rd. Old Greenwich, Conn. 

All unuflicial Class reunion was held in Yankee Stadium on Thanksgiving Day to see the Irish play Syracuse. Among those present were JIM LINK, BOB ALBERTINf, MAURICE CALLAHAN and H^\RRY PATH- Jim is at the U. of Maryland working on an advanced degree in comparative lit­erature. Bob is at Georgetown Medical, while Maurice is studying the historj* of ideas at Bran­dcis. Harr>* has worked for N.Y. State since gradua­tion but will soon report to Fort Knox for training at the Armor School, and then it is on to Germany. Also due to leave soon, 2nd Lt. KEVIN QUINN, who is bound for Korea. 
Making the trip from Washington to New York were HAL SUNDERMANN, TOM KELLY and JLM \\'YRSCH. They are all at Georgetown Law. From Cambridge, Mass., and Har\'ard Law School came TO.M VOLLMER, JOHN .McCABE, and ED COLLINS. Seen wandering around the lobby of the Commodore Hotel after the game were JIM EIDE and J. J. CUNNINGHAM. Both are at Columbia U. Jim is in business school and J. J. is in the graduate school of education. 
The football season, while not the most successful in campus hislorj*, saw the return of several of our classmates. Back for the UCLA weekend were TOM PAVLIC, EM WEISS, TONY B/\SCHE and JACK O'CONNELL. Tom is at Western Reser\e Law School and Em is at St. Louis U. TONY BASCHE is a Root-Tilden Fcllou- at NYU Law School and Jack is working for the AFofL in New Vork City. • 
Area representative TERRY DESMOND sends news on several fellows in the Detroit area. BILL VASU has entered the graduate school of business at NYU. RON MASTEJ was recently elected vice-president of his class at U. of Detroit Law School tvith the aid of classmates DICK FELLRATH, PETE JASON, TO.M BEJIN and BOB GESELL. Studying at nearby Wayne Stale U. are DAVE EVANS and JACK HILDEBRAND. Jack is en­rolled in the medical school. CHUCK RIVARD has begun his tour of duty with the Army, while MATT MURPHY is ser\ing with the National Guard. TOM BARKLEY is back at ND for gradu­ate school and FRANK McDONALD is at the U. of Chicago. PAT O'BRIEN is teaching in the De­troit area. Thanks, Terry, for an interesting letter. 
MIKE DELMON'TE writes that he has met two of his classmates at Penn. BRUCE CRxVMER is (vorking on his MS in electrical engineering. JOE MORABITO is there on a fellowship and is work­ing for an MS degree. 
Word has been received on several weddings and engagements. BILL ROGERS and Barbara Conley were married in Chicago in November. They were followed a few weeks later by ED FITZGERALD 
and Nancy Lynk. Those annonndng engagementM 
induded CHUCK HARTMAN to Rosemary College senior Mary Lou CampbeU and CLIFFORD THOMPSON to Mary Malo of Ma^aewood, N.J. 
Class V-P JOSEPH "SCOTTY** MAXWELL, back at ND Law School, reports that he has heard from JOHN KANE and JOE TOLAND. John is working for Standard Press Steel in Gleanside, Pa., and Joe is doing graduate work in marketing at Nortliwestcm. Not a word has been heard from Class Pres. ED ECK. Where have you been biding, Eddie? 
NICK VUCICH was back at ND recently visiting classmate RON VETTEL. Nick has joined the business %%-orld as a salesman in Chicago. Ron is studying law at ND. 
A belated Happy New Year to all. 
From the Alumni OIHce: 
Presently attending the grad div. of the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, U. of Pa., are DAVID A. BRUNE, ROBERT J. .MORAN and LOUIS H. KAISER. >L\RK L. HERMANN is \\-orking on his master's degree in civil engineering at ND. 
DAVE KENNEDY has been named Coordinator of Sports tor the NBC News Div. of the National Broadcasting Co. He is the son ot WALTER KENNEDY 'St. 
RALPH LONG represented the University during Catholic College Night at Norfolk (Va.) CathoUc High School. 
2/Lt. RICHARD H. FOLEY completed an eight-week signal officer orientation course Dec 6 at the Army Southeastern Signal School, Fort Gordon, Ga. At Reese AFB, Tex., 2/Lt. ROBERT AV. FERREL has started his pilot training. Army 2/Lt, MICHAEL L. GARRETT completed an officer orientation course at the Adjutant General School, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind., Oct. II. At Laugh­lin AFB, Tex., 2/Lt. EDWARD G. NL\RCATO made his solo flight as a pilot in the .Air Force's T-37 jet trainer. 
JOHN S. SRNEC JR. is now employed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Lewis Research Center, Cleveland, O., and an­nounces his engagement to Miss Susan Lee Wil­liams. 
RICHARD H. MACK is planning a June wed­ding to Norecn Carol Papier and is attending the 
U. of Maryland School of Medidne. Both Secretary FRANK DICELLO and the office staff Were impressed by the letter sent to New Jcrse>- dassmates by Area Rep. JOHN DABROW­SKI. Congrats, John. If the other area men come 
through in similar style the column will stay healthy. 
Classen Gramm '63 912J4 Tenth Ave. Law Port Huron, Mich. 
Bar results for the Class of '63 are coming in and seem to be running about par for Notre Dame classes of recent years. The latest a^Ttilable count indicates 33 bar passages against three failures, with some results not known. FRANK MAGGIO, CHICK AfcERLEAN, DENNIS POWELL, BILL SCHIRGER and JIM LEKIN were all successful on two bar exams, Jim Lekin in Iowa and Indiana, the others in Illinois and Indiana. At the time of going to press there was no word on results from California, Ne\'ada or Michigan. 
PAT CROOKS, currently at the Army Judge Advocate General School, Charlottesville, Va., is going to be married in February. His fiancee Is Kris Madsen of Green Bay. Congratulations, Pat. .\fter JAG school Pat will be stationed at the Penta­gon in Washington. Also in Washington arc DEN­NIE POWELL who is working for the Internal Revenue Scr\-ice and PAUL ORISCOLL who ts getting his LL.M from Georgetown under a Pretty-man fellowship while working as a public defender for the District of Columbia. 
JLM WYSOCKI, who is derking for US District Judge Frank Ellis of New Orleans, is studying dvil law at Loyola U. of the South. He is also taking skin di\'ing — you don't get law credit for that, do you Jim? 
To anyone who hasn't heard from me ytt: mea culpa, but my addresses are not all up to date. So if you have any news about yourself or anyone else in the Class, send it on, either tc myself or to the Law School 
Notre Dame Alumnus, February-March, 1964 39 
Office of the President of The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association 
January 30, 1964 
Dear Chosen Alumnus: 

Initially, may I welcome Alessrs. Tom Carney, Bert Coughlin, Bill Cuddy and Herb Sampson as the new members to our Alumni Board as a result of your vote? 
As my reign rapidly nears the "gun lap," I must admit that it has been a great experience. During this time, I have grown to know the modem Notre Dame and to appreciate the endless efforts extended by the devoted clergy and laj-men on campus who are devoting their lives to our cause. My thanks go out to Jack Dempsey, Pat Dougherty and Bill Fallon, the senior mem­bers of the Board, who will be attending their final meeting on campus this month, for their invalu­able assistance. 
Recollecting the events of 1963, the highlight, of course, was the successful attainment of the Foundation's $18 million Challenge program. An unprecedented 80% of lay-alumni participation made this a realit)'. 
Athletically, we didn't fare so well. In our quest to return to winning ways on the gridiron, we saw tliree indiwdual head football coaches at die helm during the past calendar year. We hope that Ara Parseghian and the able staff which he is formulating will be the answer. For us who were close to the football situation last fall, we sincerely "felt" for the devoted Hughie Devore. On paper he had a squad that appeared to be headed for supremac)', but for some unkno%vn rea­son, the early lead -was seldom retained. But dien, during the latter half of the season, it didn't appear as tliough the "hungry-for-\'ictory" student body stayed behind the team. The final blow came during a losing afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium when one of the seniors allegedly removed his class ring, held it high and said, "Notre Dame ring here . . . going cheap. Get it while you can!" And more recently, while our basketball team fell behind in a contest in our antiquated field house, the student body cliant of "Jordan must go" prompted an established coach, namely Johnny Jordan, to suddenly resign from his post. Situations such as this we, the Alumni Board, have been unable to imderstand. Witliout trj'ing to dramatize, may I say that I hope the progressive student movements of today are not forerunners of student reactions like those in Japan, Indo­nesia and recently, Panama? 
On the more cheerful side, it was delightful to learn diat the Ford Foundation has renewed our participation in its "Special Program in Education" when it was announced that Notre Dame -will be awarded a $6 million grant contingent upon our raising an additional $12 million by June 30, 1966, prompting the $20 million Challenge II — another important and essential step toward international supremacy in the field of education. : 
As 1964 begins, it is felt that greater thmgs are on the horizon for Notre Dame and perhaps we're about to "turn the comer." 
My thanks to Father Hesburgh, the faculty, those in the athletic office, Jim Frick and the Foun­dation staff, Jim Armstrong and his fellow workers, and especially to the members of the Alumni Board for the splendid cooperation afforded me during my tenure of office. 
The best of luck to Phil Faccenda '51 of Chicago, 111.," who takes over as President of the Alumni Association on February 1, 1964. W 
Happy New Year! : Respectfully submitted. 
Oliver H. Hunter III, '43 President 







