The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
lastMseaaaattfXBmiifaii 

^-- '~V.t^-^ 
^ *7Ae JVahe ^ame 

A L L M N 
r-wi>n»r'nmtx"A' 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
7<4e 24tk AHM44al 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
IS 


APRIL 14 
WUai U 4f04€fi did AoUuf? 
p. S. •— Just a whispered hint: If you don't know, ask your president. 
Cf prewar 



C€HAiENCEMENT 
ana 

ALUMN I I^ELINICN 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday 

MAY 30-31, JUNE I 
(on the campus, of course) 

Special reunions of the Classes of 1917, 1922, 1927, 1932, 1937, and 
1.9,42. All added starters welcome. Residence accommodations in the 
halls. Reunion parties, alumni banquet, baseball games, golf tourna­
ment and all the other reunion activities, in pre-war style. 
PLAN NOW TO MAKE THE BEST USE OF THAT MEMORIAL DAY WEEK-END! 



% The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This ma^razine. is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as seeond class matter Octo­ber 1. 1939, at the PostofHce. Notre Dame. Indiana, under the act of August 24. 1912. Honber of the American Alumni Coand]. 
James E. Annstroiig, '25« Editor; WiUiam R. Dooley, '26, Mcmagiag Editor 
V&L25V FEBRUARY, 1947 NO. i 
March 15 Deadline For Alumni Applications 
By REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON. CS.C, '29 
As you may have .heard through other channels, the University in late Decem­
^ ber announced that it could no longer accept applications for September, 1947, enrollment. The reason for this an­nouncement was, of course, the fact that we had already on file applications far in excess of the number of vacan­cies available for next September, and we felt that it would be futile to go on adding to the number of boys who woiild ultimately have to be turned away. 
At the same time this announcement was made, it was determined by the University administration that, despite the large number of applications already on file, additional applications .would be taken zmtil March 15 from sons of our alumni. 
f 
I am, therefore, making use of the ALUMNUS, ofiicial organ of the Alumni Association, to ask all alumni having' v< sons contemplating enrollment for Sep­tember, 1947, to act promptly, if they 
have not already acted.. For reasons which I am sure you will understand and go along with, we cannot accept, even from sons of alumni, applications mailed after March 15, 1947. 
Pieierence to Wen Veterans 

It is, perhaps, needless to point out to men so well acquainted with college pro­c^lures in general iand Notre Dame pro­cedures in particular that the mere filing of an application by a boy, even the son of an alumnus, is no assurance that he will ultimately be accepted for enroll­ment. 
In accordance with the University's policy, preference will continue to be j given to the applications of former No­tre Dame students who left the campus I in good standing for service in the armed ,.i . forces. With this policy I am certain ''9 there will be no disag;reement on the part I of any one. Other applications will be I considered largely on the basis of aca-' demic standards, to the extent that class­rooms, laboratories, residence accoirimo-
Registrar of the University­

dations and dining hall facilities are 
available, with due .recognition of alumni-
son status. 
I should add that there is, under cur­

rent policies, no chronological preference 
for an applicant. Those, for instance, 
who applied in September, 1946, will 
be judged by the same standards as 
those who applied in December,; 1946. 
This prompts me to explain to you 

our methods of handling the September, 
1947, applications. We in the Registrar's 
Office are at present engaged in com­
pleting the applicant's record, where nec­
essary, by writing to his high school for ' 
a transcript of credits, based upon seven 
semesters of work. 
Preiegistiation in April 

During the period from April 28 to May 1, the students now enrolled in the University will preregister for their courses in the fall semester. When such preregistration is completed the Regis­trar's Office will know, approximately, the number of vacancies for next fall ?. in each college and department-and can pi'oceed to accept students for those vacancies. 
It is our sincere hope that every ap­plicant for September, 1947, can be noti­fied not later than May 15, 1947, as to whether or not he may be enrolled. In view of this expectation, may I, in the interest of expediting the work of the Registrar's Office, ask that you do not write in before May 15 to inquire re­garding the acceptance of an applicant. As you can see, we;'.will have no definite answer before that .date. 
Let me tell you, for your information, a little about our experience in handling the applications of sons of alumni for September, 1946. We received several hundred such applications, and very few of them were rejected. Rejections, such as they jjfere, were for the following reasons: -• 
(1) academic deficiencies; (2) receipt of applications after facilities for accommo­dating new students had been exhausted; 
(3) students had enrolled at another school and wished to transfer \io colleges or departments at Notre Dame which could not accommodate them. 
Pioud of Family Spirit 

We in the Registrar's OfiBce, like every one else at Notre Dame, are very con­scious and very proud of .the '-Notre Dame family" spirit and the "Notre Dame'tradition" and we have done and will do everything reasonably within our power .to maintain that spirit and that tradition. We derive a special satisfac­tion, you may be sure, when we are able to eiiroll a student who will be a Notre Dame man for the second or third gener­ation. Upon such a foundation does No­tre Dame go ahead to greater glory. 
Final figures for the semester which begun in September, 1946, and closed in January, 1947, showed a total registra­tion of 4,541 students, an all-time high by more than a thousand students. (In the previous semester there were 3,500 students,'which,at that time was an all-time peak.) The 4,541 figure represents the maximum number of men that can possibly be handled here at the Univer­sity, even with crowding, doubling up and similar inconveniences, and it is the de­cision of the Administration that that figure will not be exceeded in the Sep­tember, 1947, semester. 
It follows from this decision that it will now be possible to consider the ac­ceptance of additional students only to the extent that students currently en­rolled may be graduated or withdraw. 
So, in closing, may I ask that you work with us, bear with us and try to understand the difficulties of these days at Notre Dame. In the Registrar's Office, for example, the expanding enrollment and the thousands upon thousands of. let­ters, telephone calls, telegrams, personal interviews and the like have obviously put a severe strain upon a staff that has been much enlarged to care for the work. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

New Members of Alumni Board of Directors 
Eugene S. Blish, '34 Louis F. Buckley, '28 Hcnold E. Duke. '30 John J. Elder. '30 
Domiel D. Hodpin, '31 Robert T. Hellruncr, '30 Hany G. Hogan. '04 Leo D. Kelley. '21 
Paul H. MoUon, '23 Timothy J. Murphy, '24 Daniel J. O'NeU, '25 Francis Wallace, *23 
Harry G. Hogan, '04, New Alumni President 
Board Endorses Association Pattern for Progress, Plans New Mechanical and Personal Aids to Per­fect; Wallace and Helirung Named Vice-Presidents 
Harry G. Hogan, '04, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, attorney, bank president, civic leader, long-time active alumnus, is the new president of the Alumni Associa­tion of the University of Notre Dame. Under the new constitution of the Asso­ciation the board of directors elected 

JF, oiRcers at its first meeting on Jan. 25. 
Francis Wallace, '23, sports writer, novelist, Hollywood author, resident of Bdlaire, Ohio, was made a vice presi­dent, as was Robert T. Hellrang, '30, director of the St. Louis Medical Credit Bureau. 

In order to preserve the counsel of the i-etiring board, and to recognize the great contribution made to Notre Dame by a man whom Father Mike Moriarty de­scribed appropriately as "the Notre Dame man of the year," Thomas F. Byrne, '28, executive of the Ohio Bell Telephone Co., Cleveland, retiring presi­dent of the Association, was made hono­rary president and ex officio member of the new board. James E. Armstrong, '25, and William R. Dooley, '26, directing the Association's program through the 
|v'" Alumni Office, were elected officially to their present posts and thereby become ex officio members of the new board. 
New Board Members 

The other members of the new board are (together with the expiration of their tenns): John J. Elder, '30, with the Sin­clair Refining Co. and also secretary of the Illinois Athletic Commission, Chicago, (1950); Paul R. Mallon, '23, Washing­ton columm'st (1950); Louis F. Buckley, '28, assistant Cleveland regional repre-
V sentative of the Social Security Board and new president of the Catholic Eco­nomic Association (1950); Daniel J. O'Neil, '25, New York personnel execu­tive of the American Telephone and Tele­graph Co., (1949); Harold E. Duke, '30, Philadelphia branch executive of the 
„ Wayne Pump Co. (1949); Timothy J. j^ . Murphy, '24, Connecticut director of the if/ PHA, Hartford (1948); Daniel D. Hal­
\ pin, '31, sales director of the television receiving set division of RCA, Haddon­field, N. J., (1948); Leo D. Kelley, '21, a retail coal dealer, Syracuse, N. Y., 
• (1948); and Eugene S. Blish, '34, manu­facturex-'s agent, Denver, Colo. (1948). The term of Fi-ank Wallace expires in 1950 and those of Harry Hogan and Bob Helh-ung in 1949. 
Deliberations of the first meeting of the new board of directoi-s centered about the general program for achieving in the Alumni Association the same prestige, dignity and leadership that is reflected in the University. A brief summary of the agenda of the board meeting will in­dicate the serious nature of the present approach to Association problems. 
The Fifth Annual Alumni Fund 

Because of the fine r'ecord of the Alum­ni in the Fourth Annual Fund, which closed on Dec. 31, 1946, with a record-breaking $176,988.81 from a record-breaking 5,702 alumni, the board de­cided generally to continue the present plan of program. 
A detailed report of the 1946 Fund will be issued shortly. And the solicita­tion for the Fifth Annual Fund, officially opened on Jan. 1, 1947, will be mailed to all alumni late in February under pres­ent plans. The board was high in praise of the woi-k of the advisory co2mnittee on Fund literature, particularly Dennis J, O'Neill, '26, Cleveland. 
Universal Notre Dame Night 

Monday, -4pril 14, was officially desig­nated as the 24th Annual Universal No­tre Dame Night. It was agreed to ac­cept the invitation of the Notre Dame Club of Denver to make that Club the key Club for the occasion, with the hope of a national radio prog^ram to emanate from there. This centering of attention on Notre Dame in the West is to be fol­lowed in 1948 by having the focal point of the 25th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night in Philadelphia, %vhere it was founded by the late John H. Nee­son, '03. 
It was agreed that with 77 Clubs rep­resented at the Club Presidents confer­ence at Notre Dame last November, that would be the minimum number of ob­servances of the Night this year. 
Local Qub Development 

As an outgrowth of the Presidents con­ference, and in view of the natural chan­nels they provide for all the phases of the growing program of the Association and the development of Notre Dame inter­ests, the Board dwelt at length on the promotion of the Local Alumni Clubs. 
The president and vice-presidents were particularly charged with the develoj/­ment of personal contact with the Clubs, and the board encouraged the University administration through Father Robert Sweeney, the alumni coordinator, and through general faculty, administrative and athletic contacts, to make every ef­fort to visit all Local Clubs whenever possible. The Alumni Office will natu­i-ally continue to exert all efforts to or­ganize and cooperate with the Clubs. 
Use of the Club manual, given to all Club presidents in November, was urged as a general base for 1947 development. 
The Class Beunions 

Approval of the resumption of the Five-Year Class Reunions with the com­ing Commencement weekend. May 30-31, June 1, was given. Plans for the 25­Year and the 30-Year Reunions were reported as already well under way. De­tails of the Reunions wiU be received through the Reunion Class secretaries. 
Universal Communion Sunday 
Hearty approval of the Annual Uni­versal Communion Sunday was given by the board, which officially designated Sunday, Dec. 7, 1947, as the date of the 10th Annual Universal Communion Sun­day. 
In this connection also, the board ap­proved a suggestion that many Clubs like a Communion Sunday during Lent, and suggested the use of the frequently ob­served Rockne Memorial Commum"on Sundays, on the Lenten date near either the birthday of the late Knute Rockne, March 4, or the anniversary of his death, March 31. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The Communion breakfast, at any time, was recommended as a fine spiri­tual manifestation of the Clubs, as a source of excellent publicity, and as a fine channel for the participation of alumni families in Club activities. 
Alumni Football Ticket Distribution 

The board received the report that in general the alumni plan of football ticket distribution in 1946 had worked out satis­factorily, but that some i-evisions were necessary in 1947. 
Basically, as proposed by Herbert E. Jones, '27, business manager of athletics, these changes will be: 
1.
 The Alumni preference application blanks will be sent only to those alumni in good standing by a certain date (prob­ably June 1). The new constitution de­fines "in good standing" as follows: ". . . religious, honorary, and specially designated members, and those members who have contributed to the current financial program of the Association." 

2.
 The Alumni sale of tickets will open and close, in advance of the gen­eral public sale or other sales. 

3.
 All indications point to the neces­sity of limiting alumni applications for the Army game in 1947 at Notre Dame to two tickets for personal use. 


In view of uncertainties still existing in the classification requirements, the board referred ultimate details to the decision of the athletic depai-tment, in conjunction with the Alumni Office and the University administration. 
Alunmi Vocational Counseling Program 

William E. Dooley, '26, in charge of the vocational counseling program of the Association, reported on the progress of the national program. The present ob­jectives of aiding alumni in securing jobs are furthered through the under­graduate vocational counseling to place seniors; the Alumni OiHce for general contacts; and the 28 Local Club chair­men in the major population centers. Stress is also being placed on better op­portunities for alumni already employed. 
A business and professional census of Notre Dame men, for file and probable directory purposes, is one of the imme­diate projects approved by the board. 
Annual Alumni Awards 

The board pursued in some detail the proposal of the retiring boai-d, discussed at previous meetings, to establish at the University a special alumni award, or awards, to recognize the various contri­butions of alumni annually "over and above the call of duty." Details of such award possibilities were referred to a committee vrith special instructions to 
FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
^^i^^^^^^^>^'^^^^^^^^^V^^^^V^'^^'WVWVWVWMWN^WWW^^n#W^^^V^^^^^^^^^%^i^^V^^^^^^^'^M«^^^^^^^^^^^ 
COL. ROBERT B. RIORDAN, '24, back to active duty with the Army and South Bend, former regristrar and asso­admitted to the hospital at Fort Dix, ciate professor of Economics of the Uni­where his ailment was at length diagnos­versity, died Dec. 4, in Tilton General ed shortly before his death. Hospital, Fort Dix, N. J. His death re­
Bob served in the artillery as a cor­sulted from a rare disease of the arteries. 
poral in World War I and was in France. Bob, a veteran of both world wars, ' Graduated from Notre Dame in 1924, he 
completed his terminal leave last Feb-was commissioned a lieutenant in the Army reserves and maintained an active interest in all reserve corps undertak­ings. From 1925 to 1929 he was editor of The Bengalese, C.S.C. mission publi­cation in Washington, D. C. 
Becoming registrar and teacher of Eco­nomics at Notre Dame in 1929, Bob served in this dual capacity with the University until early 1941 when he was recalled to active Army duty. He was assigned to the ROTC at Purdue Univer­sity, West Lafayette, Ind., until April, 1944, when he was transferred to Fifth Service Command Headquarters, Colum­bus, O. Subsequently he was assigned to duty in the Pacific, successively com­manding a field artillery battalion in the Philippines, several other Pacific Islands and Japan. 
Bob is survived by his wife and nine children, the oldest two of whom are stu­dents at Notre Dame. 
Full military honors were paid Bob at CoL Robert B. Biordan the funeral services held Dec. 9, in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
ruary, returned to Notre Dame for a Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, presi­short time and became ill soon after. He dent of the University, celebrated the was admitted to St. Joseph Hospital, solemn requiem Mass and Rev. Howard South Bend, for observation and then Kenna, C.S.C, director of studies, and was sent to Hines General Hospital, Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C, regis­Hines, 111., as various medical men at­trar, assisted as deacon and sub-deacon. 
tempted to diagnose his disease. Upon his release from this veterans' hospital, Among those serving as pallbearers he returned to his family home, then in were Col. Benjamin G. DuBois, a former 
Ludington, Mich., and, when his condi­member of the faculty, Lt. Col. John V. tion grew worse, he consulted New York Hinkel, director of Public Information specialists. On Nov. 7 he was ordered at Notre Dame and Capt. Daniel J. 
O'Grady, professor of psychology. 
consider possible Club participation in The Alumni Office has just learned the procedures. that THOMAS J. McFARLANE, ex. '39, Lansing, Mich., brother of Leo P. 
Begional Directors 

McFarlane, '36, was declared dead by Another proposal favorably considered the Navy Department as of Dec. 15, is the establishment of regional direc­1945. Tom serve4 as a pharmacist mate, tors to aid in the work of the Clubs and second class, on the first U.S.S. Houston alumni in areas outside the Clubs. which was sunk in the Battle of the As the newly-elected president sum­Coral Sea in March, 1942. 
marized the program and its need: The Tom's family, according to Leo, first success of the Alumni Association does believed that he was a prisoner of war, ^ not depend upon a board of fifteen direc­but later found out that he had been con­
tors, nor upon a larger number of Club fused with another pharmacist's mate presidents, but upon the cooperation and aboard the same ship who had an al­the activity.of every Notre Dame man. most identical name. 
ALUMNI HAVE PUBLISHING FIRMS 
Two publishing organizations direct­

$20,000 For Mediaeval Institute 
ed by alumni have recently begun oper­
ations and announced new books. Beginning of Goodness, a compact, straightforward book of spiritual guid­ance for the young layman will be pub­lished next month by a gn^'oup of Notre Dame alumni who have formed Fides Publishers of South Bend. The Reclamation of Independence, a new book by Dr. Willis D. Nutting, pro­fessor of History at Notre Dame, will be published in the near future by the firm of Berliner (Harold '45) and Lani­gan, (Joseph, '44) in Nevada City, Calif. 
Written by Columba Cary-Elwyes, an English monk, the Beginning of Good­ness is reprinted in the United States at the urging of A. J. Cronin, disting­uished author of "The Green Years" and "Keys of the Kingdom." 
Fides was organized last year by former leaders in the Young Christian Students, and is a non-profit company specializing in Catholic Action publica­tions. Among its directors are Eugene Geissler, M. A. '41, instructor in Eng­lish at Notre Dame, Burnett Bauer, '38, 
M. A., '46, a publicity director for the U. 
S. Rubber Co., Mishawaka, Ind., Martin 
M. McLaughlin, M. A. '41, N. D. grad­uate student and leader in national and international student organizations, and James V. Cunningham, '44, publications secretary for the YCS on campus. Eev. Louis Putz, CSC, '32, is a director and chaplain for Fides, and Miss Catherine O'Connor of the Ave Maria Press is secretary. 
Included in the Fides line are two publications by Mr. Geissler, written while he was a student. "Militants," is a handbook of specialized Catholic Ac­tion, and "Training of Lay Leaders," is an introduction to the movement and an exposition of the jocist technique. 
Dr. Nutting's new book is the first to be published by the Berliner-Lanigan firm. 
Advocating econoimc independence as a basis of political independence, the book stresses that the only way to avoid a "red" revolution is to have a "green" revolution, that is to restore the econ­omic independence of the common man. 
Dr. Nutting, a native of Iowa City, 

la., studied at the University of Iowa ^ from 1917 to 1921. From 1921 to 1924 3 he studied at Oxford, England, and re­'^ ceived his B. A. and Litt. B. degrees. ^ He received his Ph. D. degree from the 
"^^ University of Iowa in 1933 and for the I next three years was a member of the I faculty at the College of St. Teresa, } Winona, Minn. He has been a member >i of the faculty of Notre Dame since 1936. 
Gift Comes to Notre Dame from Michael P. Grace Foundation 
A gift of $20,000 to help defray the expenses of inaugurating the work of the Mediaeval Institute of the University has been received by the University from the Michael P. Grace Foundation in New York City, it was announced on Jan. 16 by Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C, president. Mr. Grace is a Notre Dame graduate of 1941. 
The Mediaeval Institute was establish­ed at Notre Dame in September, 1946, under the direction of the Kev. Gerald 
B. Phelan, former president of the Ponti­fical Institute of Mediaeval Studies at Toronto, Canada. 
The Mediaeval Institute is a distinct and independent academic unit of the University. It is primarily a research institution, devoted in addition to an in­tensive study of the life and thought of the Middle Ages, to the critical anjdyses of available sources, the editing of un­published materials, the publication of scholarly studies, the tracing of currents of thought and movements of civilization and, in general, whatever may advance our knowledge and understanding of Catholic mediaeval culture. 
Headed by Cardinal McGuigan, arch­bishop of Toronto, a distinguished group of Canadian clergymen, educators and other professional men paid tribute in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 2 to Father Phelan. 
A testimonial dinner was give for Dr. Phelan in recognition of his con­tributions as co-founder and president for many years of the Pontifical Insti­tute of Mediaeval Studies iat the Uni­versity of Toronto. He resigned his Toronto connections last summer to or­ganize the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame. 
A letter was read from Dr. Etienhe Gilson, world-famous philosopher at Paris, who wrote that "nobody knows better than I do how much the Ponti­ficial Institute owes Dr. Phelan's i»er­sonal devotion, care and inspiration." Dr. Gilson added that "I feel deeply con­vinced that in continuing at Notre Dame the magnificent work which he has so successfully achieved in Toronto, Dr. Phelan will merely carry on the very same undertaking and the very same spirit of devotion to those sacred sciences which he has always served out of pure love for the Church of Christ." 
Eight diversified scholarly subjects comprise the curriculum of the newly-created Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame which inaugurated instruction and research at the opening af the spring semester on Jan. 30. 
The curriculum for the first semester of the Institute consists of Mediaeval Theology, History of Mediaeval Philos­ophy, Philosophy of St. Thomas, Mediae­val History, Mediaeval Vernacular Lan­guages and Literatures, Mediaeval Latin Language and Literature, Mediaeval Latin Palaeogrraphy and Mediaeval Art History. 
Seven members of the faculty of the Graduate School at Notre Dame are as­sisting Father Phelan in the instruction given at the Institute. Others will.be add­ed as lecturers in the fall semester. Those serving now and their respective fields include: Kev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C, Middle English and Chaucer; Dr. Wil­liam H. Bennett, Middle English and Gothic; Dr. Antoii H. Chroust, History of Philosophy; Dr. James A. Corbett, Mediaeval History; Rev. Joseph N. Gar­vin, C.S.C, Mediaeval Latin; Rev. Philip 
S. Moore, C.aC, dean of the Notre Dame Graduate School, Philosophical Biblio­graphy; Dr. Yves Simon, Philosophy, and Father Phelan, Philosophy. 
Although the courses of study leading to a diploma in mediaeval research from the Institute extend over a period of five years, a student who elects to qualify for advanced degrees in the Graduate School during his course of study at the Institute may obtain his Master of Arts degree at the conclusion of his second year and his doctorate in philosophy at the end of his third year. Courses lead­ing to a diploma in mediaeval research are exclusively graduate courses. 
CHEMISTRY ALUMNI TO MEET 
Alumni attending the American Oifflnr ical Society, convention at Atlantic-City during the week of April 14 will have a luncheon, probably on.Tuesday, Wednes­day or Thursday of that week, according to an announcement just made by Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell of the Chemistry Department at Notre Dame. The exact date and place of the luncheon will be announced in Chemical and Engineering News and in the convention program. Dr.' Campbell said. Dr. James F. Kerwin, '41, of the. Smith, Kline and . French Laboratories, Philadelphia, is in charge of the luncheon arrangrements. 
"Reformers Protest Too Much" 
Because Father John H. Murphy, Chairman of the Faculty Board in Con­trol of Athletics at Notre Dame, is nec­essarily absent and because the air is still. filled with speculation about the interruption in the Army-Notre Dame series, I wish to make it known that the danger of gamblers getting to the Notre Dame or Army players had nothing to do with the rupture in the relationship. While there is no point to elaborating on the reasons given by General Taylor and me in our joint statement, all mem­bers of the Faculty Board and I would like to express publicly that no squad of Notre Dame men has ever better de­served our respect and confidence than this one which you are honoring tonight, We are proud of them as representative Notre Dame men who live decent lives and are as serious about their studies as they are about success in athletics. 
Many who have been interested in ath­letics for years are somewhat wearied of tiie familiar voices raised again by the so-caUed reformers. The type of reform­ers I refer to are those who play with the question of football for public con­sumption, who seem to say that an inde­finable something has to be done in ath­letics in a way nobody knows how, at a time nobody knows when, in places no­body knows where, to accomplish nobody knows what. I wonder if there are not grounds to suspect that the reformers in at least some quarters protest too much, that their zeal may be an excuse for their own negligence in reforming themselves. 
Calls for True Reform 
This much can be said frankly, I be­lieve, that true reform in athletics will not be accomplished by the mere pub­lishing of noble, high-sounding codes which are often hypocritically evaded in actual practice. Reform will never be brought about by innuendo and insin­uation, by sly and indirect criticism directed at this or that institution, nor by the constant juxtaposition of two words "winning" and "deemphasis" as if winning had to be de-emphasized rath­er tiian the dishonesty and real abuses that are supposed to exist in some quarters connected with football. When we in American sports hold the winner under suspicion merely becaiise he is a 

By REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH. C S. C President of the University of Notre Dame 
THE FOOTBAU BANQUET The address printed here was deUvered by Father Covanaugh, at the twenty- sev­enth annual testimonial football banquet tendered the 1946 National Championship squad by the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club on Jan. 13 in the east dining hall on the campus. The highlight of the speaking program was the talk given by Father Covanaugh, who answered some of the recent criticism aimed at college football in general and Notre Dame football in particular. His speech has attracted nationwide comment on the radio and in the newspapers. Warren Brown turned in a top job as toastmaster while putting the following speakers, in addition to Father Cova­naugh, through their poces: F. Ketmeth Dempsey, mayor of South Bend; Rolph Young, director of athletics, Michigan State College; Guy Mockey, director of athletics, Purdue University; Lynn Wol­dorf, head football codch. Northwestern University; Howie Odell, heod footboll coach, Yale University; Jim Costin, sports editor, South Bend Tribune; and Frank. Leahy. All hod words of prcdse for the 1946 Notional Champions. Ziggy Czor­obski, right tackle, spoke for the team. 
Chuck Perrin, student entertainer, provided mnnerous laughs midway in the program. Wolter Lcnigford was the efficient gen­
eral choirmon of the committee in charge of the banquet and he was assisted by Clorence Harding, Frank Miles, Edward Meehon, James Armstrong, J. Arthur Haley, Jerome Crowley, William F. Sheehon, Her­bert E. Jones, Albert McGcmn, John Hin­kel, Charles Collohon and Poul M. Butler, David C. Ford, monoger of the Dining Halls, was in charge of the menu and 
speciol orrongements. Music was Tpm~ vided by the Notre Dome bond, directed by H. Lee Hope. 
winner, we discredit many of the fine qualities that have made football in­spiring — the will to win, extraordinary school spirit and devotion, heroic ob­servance of training roles, indefatig­able application on the part of eoaclies and players to the details of the game —^and we come perilously close to tiie kind of dismal thinking that stigmatizes with susnicion tjie man who achieves 
outstanding success, a kind of thinking which is trying to spread itself over America and to make Communism popu­lar in our economic life by reducing the ambitions and possibilities of all men to mediocre and monotonous average statures. 
Ceosa Critidxing M^^timer 

I once heard a certain gentleman from a large institution where alumni subsidization is notoriously well devel­oped, state blandly that he thought alumni aid to athletes did not consti­tute an evil. Now it is commonly known that alumni aid to athletes tends to take the control away from an institu­tion and that it is the chief evil in athletics at his institution, if there be an evil in athletics at any institution. I don't think this kind of hypocrisy will impress anyone, not even those who must sit and listen to it, although, because of circumstances, they are afraid to speak back. Teams that show strength are not, ipso facto, to be suspected of mal­practices. When a very strong Illinois team swamped an imbeaten and un­tied Pacific Coast champion; when strong Michigan scored twice against the great Army and nearly won the game; when Indiana surprisingly beat Illinois; when Navy brought sports' lovers to their feet by nearly trouncing Army, there was no reason to flood the country with rumors that these competent and ^ sturdy teams had been formed by uneth­ical practices, that their coaches sent the boys into the games with brass knuck­les and stilettos and instructions to play dirty football. No, the condition of the 
loser is not improved in the estimation of the public by criticizing the winner. The American people who worslup a 
•winner so long as he wins honestly ac­cording to the rules are not easily mis­led by such accusations. That is why America, and you yourselves assembled here, are applauding our great group of National Champions tonight. We at Notre Dame make no apologies about wanting winners. We want our stu­dents to go out and win in debates, on the basketball floor, in track, in base­ball, and in the much more important «ii batUes of life. We shall always want Notre Dame men to play to win so long as there is a Notre Dame. But with 
even more emphasis, we want Notre Dame men to win cleanly and accord­ing to the rules, and because Notre Dame men are reared here on this cam­pus in this spirit and because they ex­emplify this spirit all over the world, they are the envy of the nation. 
I have heard that certain persons ask why great athletes come to Notre Dame. Is it not just as reasonable to ask why they shouldn't come to Notre Dame? Isn't it just as reasonable to ask why young boys brought up singing No­tre Dame songs and longing for the day that they will enter the University are somehow induced to enter other in­stitutions? Notre Dame is as favor­nbly known throughout America as any other school in the land and there Is no mystery about why good boys are here at Notre Dame and why still others will some. In every town of any size in every State of the Union, boys who hear of Notre Dame spirit and the educational advantages here, who listen to Notre Dame games, plan to come when they are old enough, providing they can meet the high academic and disciplinary standards that are held up for athletes and non-athletes who want to enroll at this institution. 
Proiiies Coaching StoB 

I have heard that some people wonder about the calibre of our coaching staff. I happen to know our coaching staff fairly well and, man for man, I will put them up for the decency of their lives and cleanliness of their speech, for their ideals and methods in handling boys, for their sense of fair play, for their support of academic standards, as well as for their ability as coaches, I will put tliem up with any group of coaches in America. For the sake of coaches themselves, I hate to hear them belittle one another and I think you will search far into the records to find a Notre Dame coach who criticized another in­stitution, another coach, or another squad of players when a Notre Dame team has suffered a loss. Frank Leahy deserves unqualified credit for his coaching re­cord which is just about the most im­pressive ever made by any coach in this country. Confidentially, and speak­ing softly among ourselves, much of the distress about Frank Leahy is due to the fact that he is admittedly the most able coach in America. At a football banquet given by the St. Joseph Valley Alumni in 1943, I heard a nationally-known coach say that, for Frank Leahy's ability to condition his team, for his imagination in devising an ef­fective running and passing game, for his uncommon power to teach funda­
mentals, for his extraordinary success in holding a team up to a high standard of perfection week after week, Leahy deserves to be ranked along with the peerless Eockne. It is apparently envy that inclines critics to say that Frank Leahy's success depends upon his choice of material. For two of the best six years he has been a head coach, he had nothing whatever to do with the selec­tion of the material he coached. His first year at Boston College, which was a pretty successful one, and again here in 1941, Frank took up the material that had been left for him. You will re­member that in 1941 Notre Dame was ranked as the National Champion and lost not a single game. That record of 1941 and this one of 1946 are the finest his teams have made in his six-year regime as head coach and Athletic Dir­ector at Notre Dame. 
Cites Causes of Becord 

Anyone near to the situation here realizes that the splendid record made this year is due in great measure to the expert coaching provided by Mr. Leahy and by his competent and loyal assist­ants, Ed Krause, Joe McArdle, John Druze, Walter Ziemba, Marty Brill, Ber­nie Crimmins, and Bill Barley: it is due also to the outstanding ability and ex­traordinary application and spirit of as fine a group of young men as has ever been at Notre Dame. A few months ago most of these boys were scattered over the world fighting for their country. Most of them were dreaming during those hard days of the war of coming back to this happy and hallowed campus. Their devotion to Notre Dame brought them back and while skeptics stood about sagely predicting that the old Notre Dame spirit would be absent from this squad, these boys went out unpretent­iously as great squads have done in the past, worked hard day after day, week in and week out, keeping rigid training standards in order to make themselves the best, the National Champions, be­cause they loved Notre Dame and found Notre' Dame worth fighting for. This has always been the secret of success here at this University in all activities. You alumni and friends and we who are happy to give our lives to help Notre Dame on ahead, realize that heroic history of this institution will inspire almost anyone to go all-out to help make Notre Dame the leader of the world. This is the spirit of our laboratories 
where researches go on in nuclear phy­sics, in electronics, in the study of chemistry and physics, of rubber, in the study of anti-malarial drugs, in the researches that brought about the new germ-free technique in bacteriology, in the researches that have led to new dis­coveries in metals; this spirit animates our teachers of philosophy and -lan­guages, of the social sciences and law, of commerce and engineering in the undergraduate classrooms. It is the spirit that must always characterize all activities of Notre Dame. 
Plsdges Nob* Doma's Support 
To the coaches and members of the squad I say, then, from the depths of my heart, congratulations, God bless you, keep your fine spirit of playing to win in every activity to which you set your heart and hand. To all honest men who are seriously interested in the better­ment of athletics I say, count on Notre Dame's support. We are eager to know of constructive policies and we shall cooperate with them wholeheartedly. If the great educational institutions of this country agree on practical standards for athletics and decide not to schedule other institutions that will not observe these standards, Notre Dame will go along, providing the decent corollary of such a policy is put into effect, that no in­stitution observing these standards will be excluded from competition. It must be remembered that the American way tol­erates no i>enalty on success or on win­ning provided success is achieved accord­ing to the principles of fair play. I am in thorough agreement with those who say that athletes and non-athletes should choose thdr collegres chiefly because, of 
the academic advantages offered, and I have this addition to make; I think ath­letes and non-atUetes should choose the institution of learning which dares to-teach competently not only how to make a living but how to live as responsible members of the American society in relation to their fellowmen and to God. Any program devised and honestly car­ried out for the good of students, for the good of the institutions themselves, and for intercollegiate athletics in gen­eral, will receive Notre Dame's enthu­siastic support. Such a program must be honestly conceived without prejudice to any institution and it must be faith­fully carried out by those who subscribe to it. I think that any man who re­flects a moment will understand that Notre Dame has nothing to fear from' any program that permits institutions to compete on a fair and even basis, and I think that anyone who examines the histoiy and nature of this University will be convinced that it is conducted by men who are motivated by ideals of intellectna] and mora] excellence worthy of the confidence that youth and the American people in general have' ever placed in this great University that we love. 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
TODAY 
The Scholastic (in its 80th year, no less) had t\vo distinctions in December: it produced, on the sixth, a comprehen­sive and well-done review of the foot­ball season, which had closed just the previous Saturday; and it used in its Christmas issue, on the 17th, a hand­some four-color cover of Jan van Eyck's "Lucca Madonna." For both of which Editor John Defant and his merry men and Father Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., faculty advisor, desen'e A-1 z-ating. 
The Sophomores, headed by President Terry Brennan of football fame, are all set to have their Cotillion in the Palais Royale on Feb. 7. . . . Tickets for the home basketball games are a real prob­lem, what with 4,500 students, approxi­mately, and only 4,000 seats around the basketball court. Downtowners could get reserved seats only when Drake played here on Dec. 21 (Christmas vacation) and when Purdue and Marquette ap­peared between semesters. To be sure of seeing the home games, students have to be in the Gym by 7:30. After that, re­maining unresei'ved seats, if. any, are sold to the line waiting outside. 
• "JUGGIXH" COMING BACK • The Juggler, of happy memory to alumni of the '20s and the early '30s— it stopped publication in 1934—will ap­pear, at least in name, again tliis spring. It's the name chosen for the University's new literary magazine replacing Scrip, which was a war casualty, along with the Dome. The Dome, too, will appear again this spxing, for the first time since December, 1942. J. H. Johnston, Norfolk, Va., is the Juggler editor, and John AValker, Elgin, 111., the editor-in-chief of the Dome. Sign of the times: many student geo­graphical clubs had dances in the "home towns" this Christmas, for the first time since before the war. And, happy por­tent, some of the student clubs cooperat­ed with the alumni clubs in sponsoring such dances. Alumni-student luncheons or dinners were featured in several cities, 
• 
FABLEY HALL OCCUPIED 
The FHA reports that the final units in Notre Dame's housing project for veterans will be ready by Feb. 15, It was hoped, once upon a time, that all units would be ready by the middle of Septem­ber, but, there were the inevitable delays of the times. . . . Ditto for the new Far-

Football Ticket Distribution Plan. 1947 
Alumni Preference 
1.
 Alumni in good standing as of June 15, 1947, will be eligible for ticket preference. 

2.
 Alumni preference blanks for all games will be mailed prior to July 1 only to alumni in good standing. Blanks will carry preference of four tickets per game EXCEPT the Army game which ^\'ill afford only two tickets, these two tickets intended for the alumnus' personal use. 

3.
 Alumni preference sale will open on July 1 and close on July 25. 

4.
 General public sale will open on August 1, as heretofore, for all games except the Army game, for which no public sale will be possible. 


n. General public blanks will be mailed to all alumni, whether or not in good standing, prior to opening of public sale on August 1, No Army game application will be included and a re-statement of the alumni ticket policy will accompany this mailing. 
6, Since for the Army game there will be but 14,000 alumni tickets available, the preference of two tickets to each alumnus cannot be a guarantee (as was the case in 1946) if the total alimini in good standing exceeds 7,000 by the June 15 deadline. For the other games, the alumnus in good standing is reasonably certain of tickets even if the good standing group does surpass 7,000. 
7, Only ONE category will be recognized for ticket priority. Thus, an alumnus who is a season-ticket holder of 1946 record may re-order his season-tickets but in so doing will thereby relinquish his alumni priority for home games. Similarly, an alumnus who exercises his . alumni preference will not be entitled to the concessions which will be made to parents of students for Army tickets, even though he may be the father of a Notre Dame student or students, 
8, As the season-ticket will include the Army game, season-ticket sales will be frozen at the 1946 figure in order to accommodate the other classes of purchasers. Alumni and others who were season-ticket holders in 1946 may rc-order but not increase their 1946 orders. 
ARMy GAME ALLOCATION: 
Eesei-ved Seat Capacity (Notre Dame Stadium) 53,468 Alumni (7,000 at 2 tickets each).._ 14,000 Student Body and Students' Wives 5,000 Season-tickets 8,000 Parents of Notre Dame Students (geographic limita­
tions tentative) • 6,000 West Point Allotment 14,000 Univei-sity (Sub-quotas to be determined for Adminis­
tration, Faculty, Employees, Community, St, Mary's, Press, and Benefactors).;. 6,468 53,468 
ley Hall on the east side of the campus olic Action group) moved their Student which was occupied for the first time at Book Exchange (BX), started in 1943 in the start of the current semester on Jan. a small room in the Main Building, to 30, although it was originally hoped to larger quarters, also in the M,B, Stu­have it ready for last September. . . . dents turning in books are each given Father Joe Barry, just out of the Army a certificate for the highest market value after long and noteworthy service as a of the volume, and this certificate can ' chaplain through much of the war's be redeemed for other books or for cash 
worst fighting, is the first rector of when a new semester begins. A ten per Farley Hall, cent service charge is made to cover op­The Young Christian Students (Cath­erating expenses. . . , Applause for the 
Volume 25, No. 1, February, 1947 
YCS for doing a job that much needed doing. . . 
SOBINITES-ENTERTAIN Sorin resfdents entertained 300 guests in the hall right after the Southern Cal game.' Sandwiches, cake and coffee were served from a counter on the first floor. . . . The K. of C. conducted their annual vaudeville show early in December, ^vith ten student acts entered. Chuck Perrin, impersonator, took the top prize, of ?30. . . . The Music Department, through its head, Daniel H. Pedtke, has announced a series of fortnightly lecture-recitals in Washington Hall. Both faculty members and students will be featured as the M.D. offers (a) informal entertainment and 
(b) an acquaintance with various types of musical literature. • 
Rope, the year's first production by the University Theatre, was presented in Washington Hall for four nights in mid-December. Prof. Leonard Sommer of the Speech Department directed. . . . Inter-hall athletics, centered in the Eockne Memorial, are in full swing, with basket­ball, swimming and wrestling as top at­tractions so far. .. . A series of mid-day lectures and discussions representing a "new and liberalizing trend in the edu­cation of technical men at Notre Dame" is being sponsored for all engineering students by the Notre Dame branch of the American Institute of Electrical En­gineers. . . . And there are several other discussion groups, notably of late in the History Department and the Political Science Department. 
Station WND, for the campus only, is the revived hope of the revived Radio Club of 60 members of which Rev. Arch­ibald McDowell, C.S.C, is the moderator. The club is currently producing two shows on WSBT, South Bend, one, "Meet the Professors," a discussion ses­sion featuring the faculty, and the other "Meet the Irish," a sports review. 
OBSERVES 25TH ANNIVERSARY 

Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, former president of the University, on December 28, observed quietly with his brother's family in Alpena, Mich., the 25th anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood. 
In commemoration of his anniversary. Father O'Donnell received from Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, apos­tolic delegate to the United States, the United States, the following letter: 
"I am indeed pleased to inform yoa that on the occasion of your Silver Jubilee of priestly Ordi­nation which it was recently your privilege to celebrate, our Most Holy Father. Pope Pius XH, 
Exchonge a smile with loe (left) and Jim Ban, twin sons of Joe Btnr. '4Z. Wood River, ni.. who are very proud of theii latest in campus togs, a Christmas present to them from Mrs. Lora Lashhiook of the College of Law. The father — need we «a7 "proud"? — in one year was returned from Marine duty in the Pacific, passed the Illinois bar examination, was discharged, was married, opened a law office, ran for the Illinois state Senate and became the father of twin sons. 
You will recall Joe's picture on the cover of the April. 1944, ALDMNUS. He was shown receiving the Navy Cross from Admiral Nimitz for "extraordinary heroism" on Tarawa. 
has very graciously deigned to impart to you his special Apostolic Benediction. It is the wish of His Holiness that this Blessinsr be shared in by all members of your family, and by the relatives and friends who joined with you in observing this joyous anniversary. 
"As I convey to you this August Message of the Sovereign Pontiff, I wish to assure yon like­wise of my own personal congratulations and good wishes. It is my trustful prayer that the Blessing of the Yicar of Christ will be but a pledge of the rich graces which will abide with you throughout all the years of your priestly life." 
Universal G>inmunian Sunday 
S t u d e n't s at the University : joined with alumni throughout the ' country in observing on Sunday, Dec. 8, the centenary of the dec-' tion of the Blessed Virgin as pa­troness of the United States, and j Univeisal Notre Dame Communion j Sunday. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, I president, was the celebrant of the day's solemn Mass in Sacred Heart ­Church on the campus. Rev. Ro-: land Simonitsch, C.S.C, was dea-.: con and Rev. Thomas Broman, C.S.C, was subdeacon. Sermons, dealing with the centenary theme, were preached at the various stn-.­dent Masses by Rev. Archibald"^ McDowell, C.S.C, and Rev. Eugene ; Burke, C.S.C Students attended; solemn benediction in Sacred Heart ' Church in the evening. 
As you will readily notice in the club sectioh of this ALUMNTIS, Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was widely observed this year by the clubs, much more wide­ly than ever before. The reactiva­tion of the clubs, as well as the impetus given by the club presi-. dents' meeting at Notre Dame on Nov. 29-30, were evident in the numerous Communion breakfasts, ranging from the larger, more formal affairs to the informal get­togethers in some of the smaller communities. 
For all of which the Alumni Board and the Alumni Office ex­tend thanks and appreciation to every one concerned. This manifes­tation of fervent reh'gious spirit and ready cooperation with the Alumni Association program was deeply gratifying. 
The next Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday—^the tenth an­nual—will be. on Dec. 7, 1947, and the clubs are asked now to formu­late plans accordingly in order to maintain the splendid record of . 1946. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
S
POTLIGHT ALUMNI 
EDWARD K. THODE, '24, Minneapo­lis, former member of the legal depart­ment and assistant secretary and assist­ant treasurer of General Jlills, Inc. was on Aug. 20, 1946, elected vice-president and secretary by the company's board of directors. 
Edward E. Thode, '24 
After receiving his. law degree at Georgretown in 1927, Ed served as ad­ministrative assistant to J. Edgar Hoov­er of the Federal Bureau of Investiga­tion, and as chief of the National Divi­sion of Identification and Information, Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
He resigned from the F.B.I, in 1930 to practice law, and was later associated with the Reconstruction Finance Corpor­ation, the Agricultural Adjustment Ad­ministration and the Department of Ag­riculture, Washington, D. C. 

In 1936, Ed was appointed as Wash­ington representative of various Minne­apolis business interests represented by the Civic and Commerce Association. In 1937 he joined General Mills as an at­torney in the legal department and as assistant secretary. He was named as­sistant treasurer in 1941. 
WILLIAM H. KRIEG, '29, former In­dianapolis attorney and, as a lieutenant colonel in the Army, former assistant general counsel for Selective Service in Washington, was in November elected president and general manager of the Packard Manufacturing Co., Indianap­olis, prominent manufacturer of auto­matic phonographs and associated equip­ment, according to the announcement of Senator Homer E. Capehart, board chair­man. 
Bill joined the company as general counsel on Jan. 1,1946, following his re­lease from active service in the Army, and was later chosen secretary and a director. He is continuing to serve as general counsel. 
Graduated from the Harvard Law School after he received his degree at Notre Dame, Bill is a native and life­long resident of Indianapolis, where he and his wife and two children now live. He was awarded the Legion of -Merit for his services in the Army during the war. 
, WUUam H. Kaeg, '29 

ANTHONY J. PUGLIESE, '34,:a vet­eran of 13 years with International News Service, has recently been named day editor at INS headquarters in New York City. 
A native New Yorker, Tony first work­ed as a reporter and re-writeman for INS and, in 1935, served as second man in the Ohio headquarters at Columbus. He returned, after about a year, to New York, where he wrote sports for two years. 
Tony handled foreign news during the first Battle of France and later became wire editor. During the past few years he had held several important desk po­sitions with INS. Last year he edited the INS-DuMont television broadcasts over station WABD New York—the first such news to be telecast. 
He was married in 1938 to the former 
Anthonr I. Pughese. '34 

Blanche McGovem, of Pittsburgh (St. 
Mary*s-Notre Dame, '34). The Puglieses 
have two sons, John, 6, and Richard, 3. 
DEBATING SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED 
The debating team of the University will face eighteen opponents throughout the_United States during the spring se­mester, it was announced on Jan. 29 by Dr. Leonard Sommer, professor of speech at Notre Dame, who is coaching the debaters. 
Dr. Sommer said that the first debates of the spring schedule will be with In­diana State Teachers College and Capi­tal University of Toledo, O., at Ncitre Dame on Feb. 3. 
Other opponents to be faced in debate \ duels during the season include two with Loyola, Mundelein and Marquette and one each with Princeton, Michigan State and Iowa. The Notre Dame team also will participate in the Nebraska Inter­collegiate Meet at Lincoln, Neb., the Del­ta Sigma Rho Tournament at Madison, Wis., the Western Men's Tournament at Bloomington, Ind., the St. Thomas In­vitational Tournament at St. Paul, Minn., the Tau Kappa Alpha Tourna­ment at Kalamazoo, Mich., and the West Point National Tournament at the U. 
S. Military Academy, West Point, N. Y. 
Regular members of the Notre Dame debate team at the outset of the season include Alphonse Sommer, of Golf, 111., and timothy Kelley, of Bay City, Mich., negative, and Francis Finn, of Denison, Tex., and Samuel Hazo, of Pittsburgh, affirmative. James Beymer, of Pitts­burgh, is alternate on the negative team. 
Volume 25, No. 1, Febraary, 1947 
Sy Hapnend J. Doneran. '42> 

Aaaiatant Dirsctor a{ » » Public biloiinaliaa 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Coach Ed (Moose) Krause, taking over the helm as head basketball coach again this year after being discharged from the Marines, has developed the highest scor­ing team in Notre Dame history as the Irish quintet breezed to eleven wins in its first thirteen games during the first half of the season. 
The current team, with 916 points scored in the initial thirten contests, is assured of breaking the all-time season scoring record of 1,241 poinnts chalked up by Coach Clem Crowe's 1944-45 quin­tet. 
The Irish opened the season as more or less of an unknown quantity, but their overwhelming 86 to 38 and SO to 31 tri­umphs over Franklin and Ball State, re­spectively, at the outset of the campaign gave an indication of the scoring power to be expected of the Notre Dame team this season. 
Victorious in their first major test of the season, a 70 to 60 victory over In­diana's Hoosiers, Coach Krause's aggre­gation bumped into one of their few "cold" nights of the early season as they made only 18 out of 91 shots from the floor while losing a 53 to 49 decision to Wisconsin's Badgers. Wisconsin, after beating Notre Dame, grabbed an early lead in the Big Nine title race. 
Drake threw a scare into the Irish during the Christmas holidays before Notre Dame eked out a 59 to 56 win, but the Krausemen bounced back to swamp Dartmouth, 66 to 55, in Cleveland, in a game which the Notre Dame reserves played more than half of the contest. St. Louis University was the next victim of the Irish, 48 to 46, followed by a smashing 86 to 40 victory over Butler in a game in which Notre Dame made more than 40 percent of its shots. 
Purdue's fast-breaking Boilermakers jumped into an early 17 to 3 lead in the first of a two-game series and the Irish never could quite catch them as they dropped their second four-point decision of the season, 60 to 56. After handily disposing of Michigan State 74 to 56 and Detroit, 81 to 40, the cagers gained ample revenge for their loss to Purdue by over­whelming the Boilermakers in the Notre Dame gym, 74 to 43. Marquette could not cope with the Irish fast-breaking attack in the thirteenth game of the season and Notre Dame easily walked away with an 87 to 61 triumph to hit their peak of the season in scoring. 
Easily the most impressive performer on the court for the Irish this season is Kevin O'Shea, freshman guard from San Francisco, who has been rated as the best prospect on the west coast since the days of Hank Luisetti. O'Shea, who adds a lot of polish to the Notre Dame attack, is one of the flashiest ball-handlers ever to play on an Irish quintet, and at this writing is second in scoring on the squad with 142 points in thirteen games. 
Leading scorer on the squad is another freshman, John Brennan from Bedford, 
ABMY SERIES DiTEHRDPTED 
The football relationship between Army and Notre Dame will be temporarily interrupted after the 1947 game, according to a joint announcement made on Dec. 30 by Major General Maxwell D. Taylor, superintendent of the United States Military Academy, and Rev. John 
J. Cavaiiaugh, C.S.C, president of the University of Notre Dame. 
Two reasons led to the decision. The first was the conviction of the authorities of both schools that the Army-Notre Dame game had grown to such proportions that it had had come to be played under con­ditions escaping the control of the two colleges some of which were not conductive to wholesome inter­collegiate sport. The second reason was the desire of West Point as a national institution to achieve greater flexibility in the scheduling of intersectional opponents throughout the country. 
In coming to the decision to in­terrupt the series, both Army and Notre Dame avow the intention of renewing the traditional rivalry from time to time when resump­tion will serve the interests of both institutions and of intercollegiate athletics. 
Out of consideration for the cor­dial relationships which have al­ways existed between West Point and Notre Dame, the Army team will travel to South Bend in 1947 for the g^ame on Nov. 8. 

Ind., who holds down the regular center berth for the Irish. Brennan, younger brother of Tom Brennan, who was a cen­ter on the 1942-43 Wotre D^ e team, was a reserve for Leo Bamhorst, of In­dianapolis, at the start of the season. Coach Krause decided, however, that he needed Brennan's height—^he's 6'-4''—^in the line-up and sent the Bedford youth in at r^ular center and moved Bam­horst hack to a guard post. 
Frannie Curan, of Sterling, 111., who was a star on the late George Keogan's last team in 1942-43, is captain of the 1946-47 quintet and is considered the squad's sparkplug. In the thick of the battle for individual scoring honors. Cur­ran is the most aggressive man on the team and invariably comes out of a scramble with the ball. 
John Kelly,- of Utica, N. Y., monogram winner at Notre Dame in 1943-44 and high point man for the Camp LeJeune Marines last season, has gained the other starting forward berth, but George Rat­terman, from Cincinnati, letterman dur­ing the last two seasons, also plays a good share of the time at this post. 
At this writing, Notre Dame is rated as the No. 3 team in the nation behind only Kentucky and West Virginia, and the Irish hope to settle the national issue favorably when they clash with Ken­tucky's leaders in Louisville on Feb. 1. 
• TRACK­
A well-balanced track and field squad is in prospect for Coach Elvin B. (Doc) Handy during the 1947 indoor season. 
Coach Handy feels that the strength of his squaid will be in the high and low hurdles, the shot put and in the longer running events, from the half mile through two miles. With Frazier Thomp­son, of Philadelphia, back in the sprints, the Irish also are potentially strong in these events. 
' John Smith, former high school champ from Park Ridge, 111., is a power in the hurdles. Three footballers, George Sul­livan, East Walpole, Mass., Luke Hig­gins, Edgewater, N. J., and Floyd Siin­mons, Portland, Ore., and a standout freshman, John Helwig, Los Angeles, may provide a possible clean sweep in the shot put Bill Tuliy, Bronxville, N. Y., and Ray Sobota, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., are strong entries in the 880. Bill Leonard, Schenectady, N. Y., is one of the best collegiate milers in the country, and Jim Murphy, Providence, E. I., and Neil Sty­ers, Bronx, N. Y., should do well in the two mile run. 
Four home meets feature the 1947 in­
door season for the Irish tracksters, who 
also will participate in the Michigan 
State Relays, the Purdue Relays the 
Armour Tech Relays, the Central Col­
legiate Meet and the Chicago Relays. 
The complete schedule Follows: 
Feb. 1—^Purdue at Notre Dame 
8—Michiffan State Relays at 
East Lansing 
15—^Marquette and MichiEan Normal 
at Notre Dame 
22—^lowa at Notre Dame 
March 1—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
8—Central Collegiate at East Lansing 
15—Armour Tech Relays at Chicago 
22—Purdue Relays at Lafayette 
29—Chicago Daily News Relays at 
Chicago 
• 
FENCING 
Prospects for a successful fencing sea­son were uncertain as the sport was resumed at Notre Dame for the iirst time since the 1943 season. 
Herbert Melton, star of the 1942 

squad, from Paducah, Ky., returned from . the service and is coaching the Irish fencers this year while he is a student 
in the College of Law. 
Only two monogram winners — Ven­
tura Gonzales, of Dallas, Tex., and Al 
Ortiz, of Santa Fe, N. Mex. — are avail­
able. Other promising candidates for the 
foil events include Mike DeCicco, New­
ark, N. J., Ralph Witucki, South Bend, 
and Gerald Lubin, El Paso, Tex. Ortiz 
leads the fencers in the sabre events, 
followed by DeCicco, Gonzales, Robert 
Schlpsser, Springfield, 111., Robert Bos­
er, Louisville, Ky., and Thomas. Roney, 
Detroit. The epee duels feature DeCicco, 
Gonzales, George .lansen, Altoona, Pa., 
and Peter Gross, Swanton, O. 
The Irish fencers defeated the Uni­
versity of Cincinnati, 17% to 9%, in the 
opening meet of the season. The remain­
ing schedule follows: 
Feb. 1—At lUchigan State 
7—Ohio State at Notre Dame 
14—^Northwestern at Notre Dame 
22—At Wisconsin 
March 4—At Northwestern 
S—Cincinnati at Notre Dame 
DATA ON CARDINAL GLENNON 
Cyril Clemens, president pf the Inter­national Mark Twain Society, Webster Groves 19, Mo., has asked for any re­collections or impressions Notre Dame alumni may have of the late Cardinal John Glennon of St. Louis. Mr Clemens is writing a biography of the disting­uished prelate. 
RATHER SWEENEY ON TOUR 

Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C, '30, executive assistant to the president and director of alumni affairs, will begin early in February a trip to the South-
Bev. Bobert K. Sweeney, CS.C. 

west and West Coast during which he will meet with many local Notre Dame clubs. 
When the ALUMNUS went to press. Father Sweeney's itinerary was not defi­nite in all respects, but he tentatively ex­pected to be in the following cities during February and March: St. Louis, Kansas City, Tulsa, Dallas, Houston, San Anto­nio, Tucson, Phoenix, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle, Butte, Salt Lake City, and Denver. 
Alumni in these areas are asked to communicate with their club presidents regarding detailed arrangements. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ALUMNA IS SUPERIOR GENERAL 
Mother Mary Vera, S. N. D., M. A.. '28 for the past three years president of Notre Dame CoUege, Cleveland, has been elected superior general of the Sisters of Notre Dame, following a general chapter at the European mother-house of the world-wide community of 4,000 sisters. 
Mother Mary Vera becomes the fifth superior general of the community, suc­ceeding Mother Mary Antonie, who died in July when the Brazilian steamship Duque de Caxias, on which she was bound from Brazil to Rome, burned in the Atlantic off Brazil. Mother Mary Vera had gone to Brazil with other United States Sisters of Notre Dame to consult with Mother Mary Antonie shortly before her tragic death. 
The new superior general has been provincial superior of the Cleveland pro­vince of the Sisters of Notre Dame since 1943. From 1929 to 1943 she taught at Sisters College in Cleveland, now known as St. John College. She holds degrees from Notre Dame College, and the University of Southern California. 
JOHNSON GIVES McCUE LEQURE 
The application of an atomic energ^y power plant for marine propulsion is still in the distant future, Charles H. Johnson, '08, chief engineer of the Fed­eral Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co., Kearney, N. J., declared on Nov. 29 as he delivered the third annual Martin McCue Lecture on the campus. 
The Martin McCue lecture series was inaugurated in 1944 in honor of the late Martin J. McCue, former dean and dean emeritus of the College of Engi­neering, who died in 1932. 
Family Prayer Program to Start Feb. 13 
To promote the practice of daily family prayer in America, "The Family Theater," featuring the best talent of screen and radio, will have its premiere over a coast-to-coast Mutual Broadcasting System hookup Thursday, Feb. 13, at 10 p. m. (EST). The first dramatiza­tion will star Loretta Young, Joseph Gotten and James Stewart and feature music by Meredith Willson. 
Designed as a basic help to a richer life at home, at work, and at play, "The Family Theater" has as one of its main purposes the spread of the devotion of the daily Family Rosary to every Catholic home in the nation. 
"The Family Theater" is under the general direction of Father Patrick Peyton, C.S.C, who also is directing the nationwide Family Rosary crusade. Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C, now in Los Angeles, is assisting Father Peyton with the program. 
Other motion picture stars to participate in subsequent programs of "The Family Theatre" are Don Ameche, Gregory Peck, Bing Crosby, Charles Boyer, Irene Dunne, Pat O'Brien, Ruth Hussey, William Gar­gan, Joe E. Brown, Charles Bickford, Jeanne Grain, Dennis Day, Fibber McGee and Molly, Barry Fitzgerald, and Frank McHugh. 
Volume 25, No. I, February, 1947 IS 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Akron 
The club met Dec. S. "VN*e had 23 on Imnd for Communion at Our Lady of the Elms Chapel, and a few others Joined us for breakfast at Kistlers after. "We hope to get into action on some of the programs advanced at the presi­dents* meeting In South Bend. 
Paul A. B4.Tt.scl1 
Baltimore 
The club celebrated Universal Communion Sunday on Dec. S by attending ifass and re­ceiving Holy Communion at Mt. St. Joseph*? Prep School, Irvington, Baltimore. After th^ Mass, brealifast was served in the schoors re­fectory. The Mass was celebrated by the Kev. Edwin J. Schneider S.S.» of St. Charles College, Catonsville, and a former student at Notre Dame. Father Schneider delivered a short talk at the breakfast. Eighteen Xotre Dame men received Communion. Also present were five wU'es and tliree children. 
William W. Hartman. '42 was chairman of the affair. 
The club's first annual Christmas dance was held on Dec. 30 at the Grcfen Spring inn. Ap­proximately 25 couples attended. I^wis O. O'SheOt '31, was chairman for the dance, assist­ed by Horry St»rck, Jr.. Dr. Roy O. Scholz and Jim Murmy. 
At the January meeting, held In the tea­room of the C P. McCormick Company on Jan. 20, the club*s new constitution was discussed. 

Speaiicr of the evening was the Rev. Carroll McCure, professor of Economics at St. Mary's Seminary, Baltimore. 
Ual Williams 

Boston 
It is a pleasure to report that the club has become reactivated and has had two success­ful meetings. The first meeting was held at the Copley Plaza Hotel, Nov, 19. The following ofitcers were elected: Hugh F. Blunt, *24. presi­dent; James O'Dcu, '45. vice-president; John Vaughnn, 46, vice-president; Thomas Kinnealey» *?7. treasurer; Jotin Herbert, 2S, secretary. 
-between the first and second meetings the . -.versity and the Alumni Association had all the club presidents as their guests, and we were most happy to hear from our president, Hugh F. Blunt, of his most enjoyable visit, and of all the information furnished him and thd* others while at the University. 
We have an executive committee of Jack Saunders, '31. chairman, ably assisted by Art 3IcManmon, '31, Joe Gartland, *27, Jack Daffy '33, and Fred Hogan, '3S. This executive com­mittee has taken many proposed activities under its wing, and you may rest assured that a com­plete program will be forthcoming in the very near future. 
A distinguished alumnus, Clipper Smith, was recently named head coach of the Boston Yankees National League football team, and we welcome liim to Boston. 
John Herbert 

This picture was taken as the Baltimore Club on Dec. 8 observed Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday with Mass, offered by Rev. Edwin J. Schneider* S^S^ 
M.A. '37* and breakfast at Mt Joseph Preparatory School. See Baltimore news. Shown here are: 
FIRST ROW: Mrs. William C. Loaghran, Mrs. Victor Wojcihowski. Mrs. Cy Stroker and and daughter, Richard Meknly, Mr. Prendergast, Jr.. J. Gilbert Prendergast, '30. 
SECOND ROW: Brother Martin John, C.F.X., '31, William G. Longhran, '29, Vic Wojci­howski* '37, Cy Stroker, *37, Felix J. Melody, '23, Sirs. Roy O. Scholz, Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 
•35,
 Dr. Roy O. Sdiolz, '35. THIRD ROW: Mr. and Mrs. William Jacobs, Rev. Edwin J. Sduieider S.S., M.S. *37,WilHam 

W.
 Hartman, '42, Harry E. Storck, Jr., *42, Bob Williams (brother of Hal). Hal Williams, *38. 


FOURTH ROW: Brother Christian, C.F.X., Brother Bartholomew, C.F.X., Mt. St. Joe headmaster, the Very Rev. Brother Oswald, C.F.X., '28. Provincial of the Xaverian Brothers, C!ene Kennedy, who entered Notre Dame in second semester of this year, and Anthony P. Donadio, Jr., '42. 
Cincinnafi 
The club members were host to the under­graduates at a buffet luncheon on Dec. 21 at the Kemper Lane Hotel. "We •were pleased at the turnout of the "boys at school" and they seemed to enjoy our hospitality. Pick Shiels was chariman of this affair. 
On Jan. 4, the first annual Alumni Scholar­ship Ball was held at the Xetherland Plaza Ho­tel. John CottinKbam and his committee—^Walt Heddn, Honrard Rohan, Jack mrodberser, Bert Schloemer, and Bob Ijconanl—did a splendid job In providing a most enjoyable evening for the 800 guests present. Good music, a fine floor show, and a most enthusiastic crowd added to the festivities. 
The highlight of the evening was the pres­entation by our president, Walt Ndnaber, on behalf of the Alumni Club to George Battennan, of a solid gold Gruen Curvex wrist watch for his. outstanding record and achievements at Notre Dame.' The "- dance added a substantial sum to our scholarship Fund. 
The president appointed Al Castrilini to draw up a scholarship agreement to be presented to the university president for approval. 
Gas Bondi Is our newest member. He is in 
charge of the Norwood office of the Metropoli­
tan Life Insurance Co. 
Joe S* Morrissey 

Connecficuf Valley 
Our problem in Connecticut "Valley Is not a lack of news, but rather a lack of time between President Tarley'a meetings to write about the news. We are now having only one or two meetings a day (seemingly) whereas they had been scheduled hourly. 
Vince was our delegate to the meeting of club presidents on Nov. 29 and 30. He brought back many worthwhile ideas and suggestions, some of which are already on the agenda. He is enthusiastic over the opportunity afforded by this meeting, the first of its kind, to learn the TJniversity's attitude and to hear of the experiences of other club executives. 
Since the last "Alumnus'* we had our Com­munion Breakfast on Dec. S. The attendance was disappointing but the committee was con­soled, however, in that each person attending was assured of at least three grapefruits at the Bond Hotel breakfast. Witli a membership scattered widely as ours, a Communion Break­fast with a large turnout Is most difficult to arrange. 
About two weeks later we again convened at the Bond, this time for a pre-dance meeting. The undergraduates, about 20 of them, were present and did a most able job of presenting their views on the dance as well as on their general relations with the alumni organization. The alumni present were most impressed by the calibre of these young men, their earnest­ness, and their eagerness to cooperate with the older group, sometimes at considerable per­sonal sacrifice to themselves. It was not sur­prising, therefore, that the Christmas dance, held at the Hartford Club on Dec. 28th, was an outstanding social success. Tom Cony* with­out stirring out of his own household, took top honors for promotion of the affair in that he had seven members of his own family In at­tendance. All credit is due Jack Iiynch for his work on the dance. Almost without assistance he completed the arrangements, allowing the undergraduates to hold the chairmenships. Tikis was a particularly difficult job in that we have not had a large scale function of this nature for so long we were not too well known in this connection. Jack had some selling to do. and he did it well. 
Al lAwton 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Cleveland 

Frank 3IcGrodor and his committee handled very well the concert appearance, siwnsorcd by the club, of Father Flanigan's Boys Town choir at the Cleveland Public Hall. 
Bob IlacUnian and his committee put over a veo' successful football ticket activity in con­nection with the Army game. This was for our scholarship fund. >»c:mi McLectl won the free trip to the S.C.-N.D, game for selling: the most tickets. 
The club is proud that one of its members. Knrl Martersteck, was chosen as a candidate for the Alumni Association's board of directors. Karl is recoEn:2od as one of the outstanding Catholic laymen in the Cleveland area. 
Notre Dame men and their families received Communion in tlieir respective parishes on Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, 
Jim Boarkc and his committee of John Dojie, Jim DunJiiun, Frark Fa}*ne, Bob Stack and Joe Sotak put across one of the host X. D. Christmas dances, both socially and financially, in a long time, on Dec. 27. It was the same night that Moose Krauses's basketball team took over Dartmouth at the Arena. 
Moose also conducted a basketball clinic at Benedictine High School. Norb Rascher is head football and basketball coach there. His basket­ball team has won 22 straight, last year and this year. It looks as though Xorb is headed for his second consecutive city basketball cham­pionship. 
Gene Oberst was named athletic director of 
John Carroll University here in Cleveland. 
Frank Celebrezze was appointed judge of the municipal court. Prior to this appointment, he was director of public safety, where he did an outstanding job. The club is holding a tes­timonial dinner for Frank. 
Paul llackman, MO, has begun his studies 
for the priesthood at St. ilar>-*s Seminarj- here 
in Cleveland. At present the club has seven 
Notre Dame men in the priesthod here in Cleve­
land: Rev. Bernard Blatt and Rev. Bcmanl 
Flymi at Our Lady of Peace; Rev. Paul HalU­
han at the Cathedral; Rev. George Belting at 
St. James; Bcv. James Moran at Holy Cross; 
Rev. Otis ^\lncbestcr at St. Malachl's, and 
Rev. Michael Muriorty, LL.D., pastor at St. 
Catherine's 
John Reidj*'s law firm is now Falsgraf, Reidy 
and Pangrace. 
Tom £nnglit 
Da/fas 
On Dec. S, our club received Holy Communion 
in a botty at Holy Trinity. After Mass we had 
breakfast with the Holy Name Society. 
For a long time wc have been trying to get our wives together so that they may become better acquainted. This was accomplished the night of Dec. S at a cocktail party at tlie home of our president, Walter 1« Fleming:. About eighty persons attended the pariy and it was a delightful one. 
A business nioeting is scheduled for late Jan­uary at which the club's 1947 program will be discussed and committees formed. Highlights of the 1947 program are: a working committee devoted to raising fumls for the University, and a club sponsored trip to the Xotre Dame-Army game. 
I have seen several classmates during the last few months. Spent New Year's Eve with Jim Braj't '29, who was in Dallas; visited Joe OTJryan, '29, on his Kansas ranch in Septem­ber; and spent an enjoyable evening with Bob T>'Ier, '29. in Kansas City. 
Charles E. Meyer 
Eastern Indiana 
Tlie club joined in the festivities on Dec. S, 1946, with other clubs over the countrj- in celebrating Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday-
meeting under the capabale chairmanship of our President, Norbtnrt Uart. 
He told us all about the weekend he shared on the campus last fall with other representa­tives from, the various clubs. The get together of these club representatives certainly is a good idea. 
We made plans to entertain Fra' k Leahy 
when he appears in Muncie Jan. 25 to speak 
at a meeting sponsored by the Foremen's Club. 
That meeting is creating a great deal of local 
interest. 
Mario I^eroiii 
Forf Wayne 
The club attended the 9 o'clock Mass at. the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception here in Fort 'Wayne, and receive! Holy Communion in a body. Over 50 members werj in attendance. After Mass we held a brcaUfas: meeting at the Hotel Keenan. The Rt. Rev. Mrgr. John Dapp, pastor of the Cathedral, gave a fine talk on the duties and responsibilities of university gradu­ates in parish and civic work in the commun­ity. "We wore i?arti:u!arly fortun"te in having with us OS our guest. Brother Jas'in, C.S.C.t of the Notre Dame faculty who was visiting in the city. We all enjoyed visiting with him again. The committee in charge of this event was composed of Henrj- llat^ley, Berranl Keir-er, Frank McCarthy and Henrj- Hambrccht.^ 
We held our first meting of the year on Oct. 29 at the BerghofC Gardens. This w:s a dinner meeting and was under the direction of Brr­nard Keams, Frank McCarthy and Paul De­wald, and was attended by 45 members. After the dinner, the club was entertained by the showing of movies by our president. Paul S=ir­stetter. These consisted of the highlights of the 
N.D. season and also h'ghlights of the *44 sea­son. 
The evening of Dec. 23 began with a dinner meeting in the private dinirg room of the Ber­gholt Gardens. About GO members were in at­tendance. After tlie dinner a short business -meeting was held, which was concluded by a .short inspirational talk by our club chaplain. Father AVestendorf. Incidentally, it .was our pleasure to have about 15 members of the cam­pus club as our guests for the evening. 
After the dinner mreting we all went to St. Vincents Villa, the Catholic orphanage of our 

diocese, where we found about 200 orphans awaiting our comirg in the main auditorium. Tlie children were first entertained by Santa Claus, invited especially by us for the occasion, and after that Santa, ably assisted by all the club members, distributed oranges candy and various gifts to the children. These gifts were given to us by some of our club members and by otiier Port Wayne mer.hants. 
The children were entertained with motion 
pictures, shown by Paul Sagstetter. The high­
I'ght of the evening's entertainment, however, 
seemed to be the appearance of Fniil Sltkj, 
who gave a short talk and awarded an auto­
graphed football to the star football player of 
the orphanage. The chairman of the event was 
J^nome O'DowU, and he was ably assisted by 
Ed Disser. Bruff Clearj-, Pat Donnhae, Artie 
Hoffman, Tom Suelzery^ Fd Hcch, George Bd­
dns, Manrice Boland, Harr>- Uumbrecht and 
Frank fl'emhoff. 
Robert L. O'Brien 

Grand Rapids 
Thirty-four members of the reorganized Notre Dame club turned out to observe Universal Communion Sunday. Dec. S- After Mass and Holy Communion the members breakfasted in the K. of C. banquet room. At that time it was voted to have our first meeting on Jan. S. The 24 present at" the later meeting voted to have a committee appointed to nominate a slate of olficors to guide the club and set up a tenta­tive program for this year. 
Regular meetings will be held liencerorth on the second Thursday of each month. I want to mention again that I think the club presidents' meeting was a huge success. Don Levandoski 
Greater Miami 
Our club chartered one of the American Air Export and Import Company's planes and we left Miami Saturday morning on a four and one>half hour jaunt to New Orleans. Our own Charlie Carroll is president of the company, and. of course, he saw to it that we had evcrj* comfort and convenience. The following men in addition to the writer made the trip: Vincent Glblin, Jerome Holland, Richard Hnnrilian, Robert Marklard, Harry E!more, Jureph Hober­
^ 

We attended Mass at St. Mary's Church in ' Muncle, and received Holy Communion in a Members of flie FL Wayne Noire Dome Qub entertained the" orphans ol St body. After breakfasting together we held our 
Vincent's ViUa, Ft Wayne, at a Christmas party on Dec. 23. See Ft Wayne news. 
Volume 25. No. 1. February, 1947 

^ P  kom. Urban Kuhen^e, and Geoixe Sxabo. It ^as  
.  the first time in many years that a lot of ua  
had seen the Notre Dame team in action and  
we were all thrilled with the showing made by  
our boys in the Sugar Bowl that afternoon.  
After the game we were entertained at a  
cocktail party sponsored by the Notre Dame  
Club of New Orleans in the St. Charles Hotel.  
The renewal of old acquaintances was very  
much in order. To name a few, we ran into:  
Jim Favcrt, Bob Marshall, Bub Hjlmes, Min­ 
nie Sporl, Chick 3IaIoney, Christy Flannsan,  
Terry Dillon, Fran Oelrich, Neil Hurley, Bill  
Fay, Bub Seiirfrietl, Buy Keating:, Gene Mulloy,  
Jules De la Versne, and Tom HuKhsen. Also  
enjoyed a very nice chat with lather Frank  
CavanauKh and Joe Bolantl.  
Although our club Iiere in Miami h.ns been  
organized* for less than a year a groat interest  
lias been shown by the members. We have a  
meeting once a month on the first Wednesday  
of eacli month and on every occasion this  
meeting has been well attended. During the  
football season we generally got together at  
one of the member's homes for the broadcast  
of the game. . . . We have our sights set to­ 
*, *  ward establishing a scholarship fund so that  
^V  we from this area might be able to sponsor  
several Notre Dame men of the future.  
Georgre F. Meister  
Indianapolis  
On Dec. S. 1946. the club observed tlie Uni­ 
;  versal Communion Sunday by attending ^lass  
and Holy Communion in a body in Blessed  
!  Sacrament Cliapel of Sts. Peter and Paul Cathe- 
l  dral. The Rev. George Dulan, CSX., offered  
the Mass and Msgr. Raymond R. NoU, pastor  
of the Cathedral, gave the sermon.  
This was followed by the annual breakfast  
at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. One hundred  
and seven members of the club attended and  
heard the Rev. John H. Murphy, CS.C, vice- 
president of the University, the principal speak­ 
;  er. Mr. Peter C. Reilly, local Industrialist and  
member of the Board of Trustees, also gave a  
short speech on the meaning of Universal  
Communion Sunday. Mike IiOyden, retiring club  
»  president, served as master of ceremonies.  
'•  During the course of the breakfast the club  
ofitcers for 1947 were elected: those to serve  
during the coming year are, Patrick J. FLsher,  
-^ .  president; Joseph G. Beck, vice-president; N, J.  
•M^  Connor, secretary; and James E. Rocap, treas­ 
•"dT  urcr. A large number of the members of the  

local club and their friends joined with the present students at the University at the Indi­anapolis Athletic Club on Dec. 26 for the re­sumption of the Christmas Candlelight Formal Dance. 
The club has reserved a large block of tickets for the members at the Notre Dame-Butler basketball game being played in Indianapolis at the Butler Fleldhouse on Feb. 3. 
The following is a list of those members at­tending the Universal Communion Sunday breakfast: 
Patrick. J. Fisher, N. J. Connor, James £ . 3IcNamara, D. J. Fox, F. R. Stabblns, Jr., mi ­Ham A. Donnelly, Robert W. IQckoI, T. M. Htzgerald, Jr., John C. O'Connor^ Geurse T. O'Connor, James F. Carson, E. T. Kilrain, Wil­liam Habing, Ed Sadowski, John F. Ford, Dr. 
J. J. Blackwell, Thomas A. Welch. Judce M. 
J. Fansler, Juhn 31ullen, K. J. Konop, Walter Uouppert, Arthur J. Sullivan, John D. tSar­rington, Fred F. Zietlow. 
John F. Carr, James W. Boehir;, Slichacl Keddington, William U. Kunop, lYed Mahaifey, 
G. Don Sullivan, W. F. Fox, Jr., Mike lAyden, 
W. J. Muoney, M. S. Byrnes, W. £ . Kennedy, Robt. M. fltzgerald, Joe Gillespie, John M. Ryan, Dr. D. R. McDevitt, Thomas R. Bolccr, Robert R. McManus. Robert Seal, Jack Fisher, Hubert Courtney, Joseph Harmon, Thomas Sweeney, J. F. Rels, R. H. Kasbcrr* £• C. Mc-Nanuiru, Paul A. Fisher, E. J. Kelly, Jim Fitzgerald. 
Paul I^rsen, Jr., David J. Connor, Jr., Leroy Keach. Jr., Frank J. Mcotx, E. W. Mahoney, A. 
J. Legeay, Charles D. -Grecnen, George A. Smith, Joseph Walker, J. Edward Faost, George R. Sippel, Michael Fox, T. J. Umphrey, Leroy J. Keach. Sr., W. I^wrence Scxtun, J. Albert Smith, Cluirles E. Masun, William I*. Leppert, John W. Unnnon, John W. Meyer, B. 
J. Buriihart, Jr., Thomas J. Jone^ Tool Ragen, Karl Johnson, Henrj- Engle, R. J. Looghery, W. 
A. Bergan, 3Iicliacl J. Cnrr, Paul C. Decry, Frank R. Fox, Joseph H. Niehnns, Jr., Richard Everroad. Jr., John J. O'Brien, Charles Brown, Walter Stuhldreher, Michael J. DulTecy, Joseph 
G. Beck, and James E. Rocap. 
N. J. Connor 

Iron Range 
At the annual meeting on Jan. 7, Theodore 

A. Nolan, *33. Iron Belt, "Wis., was elected president for 1947. The dinner meeting was held at St. James Hotel in Ironwood. Ted is Iron County, Wisconsin, county sui>erintendent of schools. 
Elected to the office of vice-president was Robert £ . O'CoUachao, Jr., ex. '45, 635 Mc­Leod, Ave., Ironwood. The secretary-treasurer Is Gurdun Bethnne, '42, a native of Proctor. Minn., and now an accountant in the office of the Oliver Iron Mining Company in Ironwood. Bob was at Notre Dame until he went into the army in 1943. Gordon served in the Navy dur­ing the war. 
The Iron Range Club comprises the district of Gogebic County, Michigan, Iron County, Wis­consin, and Ashland County, Wisconsin. The next regular meeting will be during the Blaster holiday season. The club meets at least four times a year. 
Attending the Jan. 7 meeting in addition to the officers were Alois A. Hoffman, '27. Hurley. Wis.; Robert J. O'Callaghan, ex. '16. Ironwood: John Carli, ex. 45. Ironwood; Ray Ebli, '42. Ironwood; Victor F. I^emmer, *2G, Ironwood. 
Among the active members of the club (for­merly known as the Gogebic Range Notre Dame Club), who were unable to be present due to absence from the community, are: Ernest Ki-Tisto, Alev Baineri, Joseph Raxnerl, Kkhaid Zawlocki, Eugene Zinn, Philip Andcnon, Charles EUefsea, Thomas McKcritt, F^ank VnkoTich, and John McKeritt. 
Kansas Cify 
In obser\'ance of the 9th Annual Universal Communion Sunday the Kansas City Club on Dec. 8 attended Mass and Communion in a body at Visitation Churcli with approximately 40 members present. Following Mass a break­fast was held at the Union Station Pine Room. The club president. Vinoe DeConrsey, outlined the future alumni program as discussed at the recent club presidents' meeting on the campus. The local membership pledged full support to the program. Among those present were Fkank Inen, Ed Reanlon, Joe Stewart, Maurice Car­roll, Emmctt ConkUnc* BUI Sharp, Glen Find­ley, Barney Quirk, Tom and Charlie Hlffglns, Bob Pender^nist, Bob Reanlon, Tom Tobin, Fkank Dugan, George Kopp, Dick I^oie, Ben Oakes, Gene Slorray, Doc ^iigro, Jim Metzler, Joe TanDyke, Ed. O^Connor, Bernard Flnocane. John' Baty, Bob Metzlcr and Dave Crooks. 
Because of limitations on local hotels the club was unable to work out plans for a Christ­mas dance. However, the local membership is anxiously looking forward to its coming dinner on Feb. 4, the occasion being the visit to Kan­sas City by Father Sweeney from the campus. Plans are now in progress for a reunion on Universal N. D. Night as well as a smoker in the interim. 
- Tom Reardon 

Kentucky 
The Communion-Break fast. Dec. 8, was held at St. Mary Magdalen's Church. It was the most successful one for a number of years. The following were present: Dr. Moran, Walter Kenney, John Dant, Joe Donaldson, 3Iarion Hcf­feman, miliam Rosier, Mams Pope, John Ban-non. Dr. Keaney, Pierre .^ingermeicr, Jim Cos* tello, Comie FfeilTer, Ed Ffeiffer, Leo Steiden (guest) Frank B. Blocmer, Dr. Nonrin Casper, Otto MelitI, John McKcnna, ^Villiam Woemer, TouK Bnlleit, Inin Weller, John Forsce, Ray FfeilTer, Larry Aubrey, Charles Morrow, Ed Aubrey, Jack Carney, rliil Hollenbnch, William Reisert, Mrs. HoUenbach, Mrs. Carney and Mrs. Ed .\ubrey. 
Cliaiies Morrow and his wife had a new baby in December. I*arfy Aubrey has been in the hospital for a week due to an appendectomy. Jim Meacher is a new member to our club. He moved here from Valparaiso, Ind., with h!s wife. Floy Terrstegge, who is a graduate of St. Marj''s. Bill Morrow, who works with Rey­nolds Metals, is being permanently transferred 
The Iron Range Club met in Ironwood, Mich., on Jotn. 7. Present were, front row. to Tampa. Fla. . left to right John Carli, Robert E. O'Callaghan. Txce-preaident and his father, Robert 
Our club is bowling each Monday night and there are about 23 of us who get a great deal 
F. O'Callaghan. Second row, Victor F. Lemmer, Theodore A. Nolan, president Gordon of pleasure out of this meeting. Bethune. secretary-treasurer. Ray Ebli and Alois A, Hoffanan. See Iron Range news. Fanl Tafel, Jr. 
Los Angeles 
Mike Shannon, '39. then in the Barlow Sana­torium, 1301 Chavez Ravine Hoad, Los Angeles 26—and he'd like to have a letter from you or a chat with you—thoughtfully and generously sends along a letter about many Xotre Dame people. This is a summari*. 
I^dore I>ockwciler, California pioneer and leading attorney and layman in Los Angeles, on Dec. 28 celebrated his 79th cirthday. It was "Dockweiler Day" in Los Angeles as Archbish­op John J. Csntn-eU, LL.D. '40, called on Mr. Dockweiler, the father of several Notre Dame men, to impart his blessing. 
Another "Notre Dame father" from Los An­geles, JTos^th Scott, long a familiar and favor­ite speaker at Notre Dame, addressed the cam­pus student body in mid-Januan*- 3Iike says that Hother Georgre ScMitt, chaplain of the Los Angeles Club, is now pastor of Mar>* Star of the Sea church, S25 S. Centre St., San Pedro. Calif., and that ITather John Patrick Scott is now at St. Ann's parish, 2300 Dorris Place, Los Angeles 2G. 
One of the chaplains at Hike's sanatorium is Father liaj-mond O'PIaherty of Our I>ady of Loretto parish. Father O'Flaherty heads the local Catholic AVelfare Bureau and is promi­nent in many other fields. 
Mike's holiday visitors Included Father Pat Scott, Ed Cannin^om, and his wife and John Hennessey and his wife. John is super\'ising lands purchasing officer for the state of Cali­fornia, buying much property for new state beaches and parks. And at Christmas time Mike heard from Harry Flannery* a leading CBS figure on the Coast as well as a prominent lec­turer and writer; Leo Ward, one of the com­munity's top lawj-ers; and Ben Alexander, noted footballer, now residing at 5S00 Lemp Ave-, North Hollywood, Calif.; Terence B. Cosgrore, lay trustee and prominent Los Angeles lawyer; John Bore, Whittier, Calif., Ford dealer; Jack McAllister, custodian of the Notre Dame gj-m; Sid Sidenfaden, '29, father of seven. Sol-Gas (butane) distributor in Ontario, Calif.; Father lAwnc e BroQg:hal, C.S.C., Notre Dame; Joe Boland, Station WSBT, South Bend; Joe Kynn, Notre Dame professor. 
More Shannon dope: Sweeney Tuck, plant en­gineer for Northrup Aircraft during the war, in charge of plant maintenance, machinerj- in­stallation and millions of dollars worth of plant construction, is now chief engineer of Normac, Inc., a new housing construction firm which is a subsidiarj- of Northrup; Dr. William P. Mo­lony, an orthopedic surgeon, is back in prac­tice in the "Wilshire Professional BIdg., after serving as a commander in the Navy. 
Mike ends: "Let's hear from a few members, especially those ^'ho graduated since '39 such as Frank Meyer, Bob Hucther (card returned by P.O.), George Meeker, Pan! Gloss et al­. . . Celebrating my 30th birthday in bed Jan. 23 as I have the past five birthdays, hut with the grace of God and the spirit of Notre jynme, I'll lick the bug for good this year. Everything great by *4S!'* 
Memphis 
The club received Holy Communion in a body at the Blessed Sacrament Church, Dec. 8. Msgr. 
M. F- Kearney said the aiass and delivered a most impressive sermon in which he referred to our group and to the high place that the Blessed Mother has in the hearts of all Notre Dame men. 
Following Mass, Monsignor Kearney was host to our group at a delightful breakfast in the school cafeteria. On this occasion, Frank How-land reviewed the recent meeting of our club presidents and the work that we could do in extending the endowment fund and other ac­tivities of the University. 
Approximately 20 of our members were in attendance. Notre Dame alumni of Memphis were espe­cially honored and complimented in having 
Flunk r«ahy as a visitor to ^Lfemphls Jan. 3. Galvin Hudson of the club used his good offices and personal friendship to get Frank Leahy as the principal speaker for the banquent honor­ing the local Cliristian Brothers College (high school) football team of the past season. 
About 600 friends and guests attended the 
banquet at the Hotel Peabody, Frank Howland, 
Jlemphis alumni president, introduced Leahy. 
The Memphis N- D. Club was active in pre­
paring for the event and hold a private cock­
tail party in Frank Leahy's honor immediately 
preceding the dinner. 
Neil Farrdl 
Milwaukee 
At the officers' meeting held on Jan. 7, new committees were organized in line with the Local Alumni Club program recently outlined to club presidents at the campus meeting. 

Named as co-chairmen of the Membership Committee were Ben Bela-Hont, '31 and Dan Hnshek, '<0. Alark Pfaller and Fred W. Keller, both 1940, were appointed as co-chairmen of the Preparatory' School Committee. 3M Roffeis, '17, retained his post as chairman of the Job Place­ment Committee and Charles O'Neill, '27, and Bill Brown, '29, were given the job of heading up the Heligion and Citizenship Committee. The Publicity and Public Relations Committee will be handled by Ed Rogers, '17. Harold Wat­son, '25. and John Clauder, '34. Other commit* tee chairmen and members are yet to be named. 
The dinner lield Dec. 20, at the Medford Hotel at which Father John Hnrphy, C.S.C., vice-president was the guest speaker, was very well attended. Fathet Murphy enlightened all present regarding the activities at the Uni­versity and the many plans for the future. 
An all-out attempt Is being made to re-. awaken interest in the Milwaukee Club and its activities. AH members are being contacted and their presence urged at the next general meet­ing, which will be held at the Plankinton Hotel on Feb. 4. Plans will then be made for the dinner-dance to be held sometime in February and for group attendance at the Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game, March 4. 
The Thursday noon Luncheons have been changed from tlie "Maryland to the Plankinton Hotel, the new club headquarters. 
A recent decision of the Alumni Secretary made it possible to divide the so-called U. N. D, Club of Milwaukee into several separate clubs throughout the State. Until now the Milwaukee Club had on Its lists practically SO percent of the alumni in Wisconsin. Many of the "mem­bers" were so far from Milwaukee that it was a practical impossibility for them to ever attend meetings and other functions.. The new club areas are as follows: Sheboygan. Janesville, Beloit, Madison, Racine-Kenosha, and Fond du Lac Tlie Racine-Kenosha group will be contacted by Grovcr 31itler; the Madison alumni by John Hoach, and the Sheboyganites by the Gottsackers. 
John J. Linnehan, '40, is a new member of the club, having recently transferred here from Chicago. John is with the Unde Air Products Co., and will be deeply grateful to the alumnus who can assist him in finding a place to live in Milwaukee. 
Tom Dixon 

Monfono 
"We did not have a Communion-Breakfast. It was too tough to get the boys together. 
However, since attending the very fine meet­ing at school, I have done the following: 1) Got in touch with Br. R. C. Monaban, Boy Mtirray, Jr., and Jod^e Timothy Downey to meet with me to reorganize the Notre Dame club. 2) Plan to make a very efficient club in the Butte area first—and then organize the state. 3) Plan to have a big alumni meeting when Father Sweeney stops off in Butte. 4) Plan to have a big meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
£d Simoitf ch 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Mew Jersey 
On January 3, the alumni and campus clubs 
held a successful dance at Frank Daily's Mead­
owbrok. 
Officers of the campus club were dinner guests 
of the alumni officers at Zig's in Bast Orange 
during the holidays. 
Joe Byrne, new Lay Trustee of the Univer­sity, spoke on present Notre Dame policy at the last meeting. 
News bits: Bliir and Tola Tallman were blessed with a daughter last month—that's two boys and a girl for the Tallmans. 
Bill Besan had a successful football season 
at the Delbarton School in Morrlstown. 
Dr. BofJcy O'Connor is back at the grind after 
a navy hitch in the Pacific. 
Johnny KeUy is living In Cast Orange. He's 
the proud father of a son and daughter. 
Vince Commisso, playing with the Jersey City 
Giants, was selected all-league guard. 
I>ank Bright is practicing law In Franklin, 
and Tack Glynn is physical training director in 
the same town. 
Joe McKeon 

New York City 
The new officers of the club are: President, 
Tieniey A. O'RoaiUc, '30. 76-12 35th Avenue. 
Jackson Heights, N. Y. 
Tierney Is a labor relations counsellor for the Quaker Maid division of the Atlantic & Pacific. He has lieen very active in Board affairs for the past dozen years and ran our last two successful rallies at the Waldorf. 
Vice-President: £dward Be<dcman, '16, 40 South Drive. Plandome, N. T. 
Ed is editor of a well-known insurance period­ical called "The "Weekly Underwriter." He has been on the Board fo r many years and has the unique distinction of having been elected vice president for the third time. During the past year as chairman of the membership com,­mittee he recompiled our membership list and succeeded in raising It from SOD to approxi­mately 1,300. This was one of the best Jobs by any of the members during the past year. 
Vice-President: Hon MioHin V. Callagy, '28, 114 East 90th St., New York City. 
He is known to the members as Bud Callagy and has been very active In the Club for many years. He was a Judge of the Domestic Rela-i tions Court In the City of New York for sev­eral years and at present is in charge of the "Criminal Branch of the Legal Aid Society. He is well-known because of his efforts to combat juvenile delinquency and Is also very prom­inent in welfare circles in New York City-
Secretary: John A. Ho)-t, Jr., '33, S "White­
hall Road. Tucahoe, N. Y. 
Elected secretary for the third time, having previously been elected vice-president for three terms before the war. Associated with the law firm of Gillespie St. O'Connor, attorneys for the archdiocese of New York. 
Assistant Secretary: XVank J. Reilly, '37, 1651 Metropolitan Ave.. New York 62, N. Y. 
Frank is editor of the magazine "American Ink Maker" and is on the editorial staff of the industrial magazine "Soap & Sanitary Chemi­cals." He is sei-ictary for the class of 1937. He is also a staff member of the New York "N. D. Alumnus" and 1/ familiar to all alumni for his monthly contributions to the national "Alumnus" in behalf of the class of 1937. 
Treasurer: James HacDevitt, '35, 3 Burbury Lane, Great Neck, N. T. 
Jim has been on our club auditing committee for many years, has acted as chairman of many of our meetings and. In order to broaden his accounting background, has recently been as­sociated with the Internal Revenue Service. He , comes from a family of accountants who have ' been practicing in New York for many years. We expect that our records will be a model for all other alumni clubs. 
Assistant Treasurer: Cas Tance, *38, 42 76th St.. Brooklyn. N. Y. 
Volume 25, No. 1, February, 1347 
«> The Communion breakfast of the New York City Club on Dec. 8 was. as you wiU read in this issue, impressively highlighted by the address which Msgr. Bobert E. McCoimick, presiding judge of the ecclesiastical tribunal of the Archdiocese of New York, delivered on Euthanasia. Msgr. McCormick is shown here as he spoke. Others in the picture, left to right, are Msgr. E. S. Waterson. of Cardinal Hayes Ug h SehooL New York City. Emil Schrom, president of the New York Stock Exchange; Bev. Louis 
Kelley, C.S.C., assistant superior general Sokolsky. newspoper columnist. 

Cas has been assistant treasurer of the club and been active on the Board of Governors for several years. He also ts an accountant and is associated with one of the big export houses in New York. He is a familiar face at all our affairs and functions, hag been in charge of the distribution of tickets for club affairs for many years from the financial standpoint. 
The following were elected to the Board of Governors for the next two years: Tiemey 0*Roiirke, '30, Jack I^velle, '28. Bob Hamilton^ 
•28, Jordan Hargrove, '35, James Cawley, '40. 
3Iembers elected for one 3'ear to the Board: ^ John Powers, '43, Ed Sullivan, '41. Ed Bracken, 
•^y' '45, Jim Shells, '35, Frank ICeilly, '37. 
f Holdovers to the new Board: John Bolfe, '20, Coleman O'ShaoKhneey, '32, Ted Berkery, '27, John A. IIu>-t, Jr., '33. Jim MacDevitt, '35. 
One of the proudest functions of the club is its Trust Fund, which is administered by a Board of Trustees chosen from the club mem­bership and from prominent men in the City. Bob Hamilton is the secretary of the Trust Fund Committee-
At a recent meeting of the Board of Gov­ernors it was announced that the trust Fund had on hand approximately $9,000. 
The Trust Fund Committee itself at a recent meeting allocated and/or set aside approxi­mately ?5,000 for many worthy charities both here in the city and elsewhere, and also made available at the University funds for needy students. 
Among the charities subscribed to by the Trust Fund are: ZOO Neediest Cases sponsored by the New York "Times," The Bengal Mis­sions, The "Washington Heights Disaster Fund Committee, Brooklyn Catholic Charities, New York Catholic Charities. New York "Horald-Tribune" Fresh Air Fund for Children, Father r*aFarge's Inter-Racial Committee, National 
. Catholic "Welfare Association, Catholic Trade f Union Group. Associated Jewish Charities of New York. 
An outright gift was also.made to the Uni­versity and two special funds are to be set up, one to cover a series of special lectures at 
 of the Holy Cross Order, and George 
the University to he sponsored by the Trust Fund of the Notre Dame Club of New York,' and the other a fund for the purpose of grad­uate study in the field of politics or economics which study is to be published and distributed. 
In addition to these recent contributions by 
, our Trust Fund, a substantial gift was given to the Al Smith JXemorial Wing of St. Vincent's Hospital last spring, and at the Universal Notre Dame Night affair the sum of $1,000 was donated to the University toward the erection of a new memorial chapel at the University. 
At the annual meeting of the club on Jan. S, the membership adopted the following reso­lution with respect to the Army-Notre Dame game which has been played in New York for close to 30 years: 
"WHEREAS, this rivalry has resulted in the annual football game between the Institu­tions being the most outstanding game played each year in the City of New York, and 
WHEREAS, the two institutions have tem­porarily suspended this athletic relationship because of certain conditions that have grown up in connection with this annual game and over which the institutions had little or no control, 
NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED tliat The Notre Dame Club of New York, while regretting the necessity of terminating the relationship with the United States Mil­itary Academy, approves and endorses the temporary suspension of the relationship as being in the best interests of both Institutions and for intercollegiate athletics as a whole." 
At the final meeting of the retiring Board of Governors held on Jan. 8, It was decided that the Board would send to the distinguished guests who have spoken at our club meetings and functions during the past year, a copy of Father Hope's history of Notre Dame, and it has been suggested that the copies be auto­graphed by the President of the University. We hope that our guests will appreciate our small token of thanks and familiarize them­selves with the early history of the University. 
A rising vote of thanks was given to Ted BeHcery by the membership for the splendid administration and for the success of the clnb for the past year. , .. ' 
The address^ "Murder Will Oat,*' a dlscnasloo of the lesal aspects and consequences of the New York 'state bill to legalize voluntary eu­thanasia, was the significant highlight of the Communion Breakfast of the club at the Park Lane Hotel on Dec 8. 
Delivering' the address was R t Rev. Magr. Robert E. McCormick, presiding Justice of the XJcclesIastica] Tribunal of the archdiocese of New York. 
On Dec 11 the club passed resolutions con­demning the bill, and copies of the resolution, along with copies of speech, were sent to Gov­ernor Dewey and to legislative leaders in Al­bany; to the chancery office In New York City; to the archbishops and bishops in New Tork City and nearby New Jersey; to the Apostolic Delegate in 'Washington; and to Cardinal Dougherty. Philadelphia, and Cardinal Strltch. Chicago, as well as to leading press associa­tions and newspapers. 
As the result of the speech and the follow­up by the club, there was widespread favor­able publicity. Press association wires carried the story all over the country and overseas. 
The breakfast followed Mass in Our Lady Chapel of St. Patrick's Cathedral. On the pro-, gram at the breakfast, in addition to MonsI^-, nor McCormick. were Christopher Lynch, tenor; Emil Schram, .president of the New York Stock Exchange; George Stft^sky, IXJ> '46. and'Bt. Rev. Mscr. Folton J. Shm , LL.D. Ml. JMm 
A. Hoyt, Jr., secretary of the club, was toast­
master. Jolm A. Moyt, ^. 
Peoria 
On Dec 8, the club niet at St. Mary's Cathe-. dral, where we went to Communion in a body. There were about 75 members present. 
On. Dec 28, .we held our Christmas dance 
at the Hotel Jefferson. AMk Kic^ was In charge 
and did a grand Joh. The dance was attended 
by many men who are now at Notre Dame and 
who belong to the Central Illinois Club. Ifbm 
CemMy, law, student at Notre Dame, was in 
charge of the student group and did a grand 
Job assisting Jack King. 
DuHedit 

Philadelphia 
Our November meeting attracted a size­able turnout to hear guest speakers Al Sher­man, quarterback of the Philadelphia Sacles, Jim Castiglia, Sa'gles fallback and former Georgetown All-American. and Bill McKnitrht little All-American from Lafayette. 
Plans for attending the Notre Dame-NYU basketball game were discussed during the business end of the meeting. Joe Gftttle, Joe Wiulrrii—, Doe lorons and ^^rold Duke were commended as the big producers during a re­cent ticket activity. 
The December meeting was very Interesting. The highlight was an impressive report pre­sented by ClUr Fmdehl on the recent Club Presidents* meeting. One of the chief topics of the evening was the progress made on the local club directory. Jitfk BcOIy heads this commit­tee. WJMlt Bidley; in charge of the constitation committtee. reported that the constitution is in progress of beln^ revised and might be ready for approval at the next meeting. 
Once again it might be well to remind all readers of the news from the Philadlphia area that the club has Its regular monthly get­togethers on the second Tuesday of each month. The address .Is 2923 Walnut St. Time is 8:30. Those desiring addition to the znallinff list kindly write to 4605 Lelper St. Philadelphia 24, Pa. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Piioeflfx 

EMher Coleman, chaplain of the club said 
Mass at St. Mary's Church on Sunday, Dec 8. 
Those attending were: Regis Fallon, Bob Ken­
dall, John W. Dahncr, John O'.MalleT, Tom 
O'Malley, Ralph Bmneau, Bob O'Malleyt John 
Joyce, Bill Joyce, Bill Mahuney. After Mass, 
the group had breakfast together at a local 
restaurant. 

On Dec. 30, the club had a verj- successful dinner-dance at the "Sundown." Bob O'Afolley and Ralph Bninean were co-chairmen of the affair. 
The following attended with their guests: R. 
E. 0'3Ialley, J. G. O'Malley, Jr., Ralph Bru­nean, Joseph Palmer, Regis Fallon, Glen Mc-Bononch, John P. Joyce, William Joyce, C F. Biascr, Franic^ J. Milloy. John A. Miller, George Markham, Klliott Burrcll, lEobert Kendall, Ste­phen Bielli, Paul Rist, Albert Ficks. 
John P. Joyce 
RocAesfer, N. IT. 

On Nov. 20. tlie Kotre Dame Club of Ro­chester elected the following 1947 officers; Jo­seph Geraehty, president; Joseph Rorick, vice-president; Jack Hedgcii, treasurer; and Don Sconfietti, secretary. 
At the Dec S meeting of the club, 60 mem­bers attended Mass and Communion in Old St. Mary's Church and attended a breakfast at the-Sheraton Hotel. 
After the breakfast, the group was addressed by Rev. Thomas Tobin, CSSR, of the Retreat House of the Redemptorist Fathers in Geneva, 
N. Y. He traced the retreat movement, from the time of the apostles to the need of this exercise in the world today. The club made ar­rangements to participate in a retreat May lV-19, 1947, at the Retreat House in Geneva. 
Plans for the trip to Buffalo to attend the Notre Dame-Canisius game were discussed and Bill TVhelehan was appointed chairman for this affair. 
On Dec 28 the club held its annual Christ­m,as Formal at the Sky-Roof of the Sheraton Hotel. Chairman Frank Norton assisted by Wil­liam O'TooIe, Stanley Murray, Victor Yawman, Joseph Fl>*nn, Francis Gentner, Xorbert Baglin, James Jones, and John Hedges, worked hard and were rewarded for their labor as a cor­dial crowd of 300 couples came and enjoyed the dance music of Victor Sweet and his orchestra. During the evening the familiar phrase, " Hi, where have you been keeping yourself?" could be heard. 
Sitting at tables with guests or wives were Jack Kinsclla, the Morrison brothers, Arnold and R^eie, the Norton brothers, John, Fmns, and Charles, Harry Wright, Ken Powers, Pony Shertiant the Drs. Gnzzetta, Hofschneider, and Pissataro, Pete Connolly, and many many more too numerous to mention. It was verj- apparent that this was the first time since the war that the fellows had an opportunity to get together and talk over the news of four years. 
On Dec 23, the club had as its guests the members of the Rochester Club of Notre Dame. The stag affair was a ver>- successful party with about 60 present. "We were surprised that there were so many attending the University and at the activity of the group. It certainly Tvas a pleasure to see most of these future alumni at the dance. 
Dun Sconfietti 
Rock River Valley 

The six fellows from Rocholle got to Com­munion Dec 8, and we had a breakfast after­wards. Kay DeConrcey, '25, Ed Mandeville, '26. Paul O'Neill, '33, John Hooley, '31, and Elmer Hooley, who attended a year or so, were on deck with their wives. 
We discussed the details of the presidents' meeting at N. D. and all were enthusiastic about getting a real organization going, charg­ing dues, and having definite obligations as to the Universal Night dinner, the Dec. S Com­munion, and the annual lay retreat. 
I contacted Dixon, Freeport and Rockford 
and have heard from Bob Schmelzle of Free­
port only. Freeport didn't get together owing 
to the absence of Bob for a few days. Next 
season we'll get started earlier. 
VInce Ciuney 

RAocfe Island & S. E. Mass. 
On Dec. 8 the club held its annual Commun­ion-Breakfast with members of the club receiv­ing at the 8 o'clock Mass at the Cathedral of Sts. Peter and Paul in Providence. The Mass was celebrated by the Rt. Rev. Francis P. Keough, Bishop of Providence. Breakfast was served at the Crown Hotel, followed by a short business session. Among those present were President John HiiauKhrm, Tim Sep?, Clem and Georre Grimes, G^ne Moreau, Jjc McDon­ald, Tom Collins, John IKzgerald, Rnss Hunt and several guests. 
On Dec 30, the practice of holding an annual Christmas dance was resumed with 52 couples turning out for the affair at the Metacomet Golf Club, East Providence. In addlUon to alumni and their friends, several present stu­dents and four future students frolicked until the early hours of the morning. Joe McDon­ald, as chairman of the committee planning the affair, did an excellent job. Joe was assisted by President MclAughlin, I.ieo Mc4k.lt>on, Urn Sepe, Tom Collins, John Fitzgerald, Andy McMahon, John Mclntyre and Buss Hant of the alumni group. Jim Sullivan and Bill H?>'wood, present students, gave able assistance. 
The wheels have already been set in motion for Universal Notre Dame Night and a June dance. 
John S. BIcKJeman, *34, took over the duties of lieutenant governor for the State of Rhode Island on Jan. 7. 

President McLaughlin has issued a plea for attendance at the annual retreat, which is held at the Holy Cross Mission House in North Baston, Mass., in June. Those who have made the retreat in the past claim it is the best two days they have ever spent. Anyone interested • should contact Mac soon, as attendance is lim­ited. 
Rnssell I^ Hwit 
St. Louis 
Since our last letter, the annual scholarship drive closed and we are pleased to report that this was our most successful year, thanks to Walter George and Tred 3IcNcill. Chariie Giomi and Dr. Fknnk Kennedy led the club In solicit­ing contributions. 

The Communion breakfast on Dec. 8th was ^ V held at St. Louis University and was about eighty percent attended. Al Ravarino's pastor, SIsgr. Leo J. Stock, gave an inspiring talk, as did our chaplain. IMher WilU«m Byan, SJ. Both emphasized the Notre Dame way of life. 
Jack Tenge and myself were chairmen of the annual Christmas formal of Dec. 26 at the Cor­onado Hotel. This was attended by some 300 alumni and students and their guests. 
Just before Ch rtstmas, Fred Weber's wife 
- presented him with his third daughter. Fred says Notre Dame is overcrowded anyhow. 
On Jan. 3 St. Louis University played Notre Dame and we had a block of 500 tickets. Our section of 500 outclieercd 7.500 St. Louis Uni­versity fans while our team outplayed them, 48 to 46. On the day of the game, we enter­tained the Notre Dame team and representa­tives of St. Louis University at the Statler Hotel. This was arranged at the last minute by telephone, so we were not able to get a complete turnout of the club. 
We are holding a meeting in the very near 
future to hear Al Ravarino's report on the 
meeting held for club presidents at Notre 
Dame the weekend of the Southern California ^ ^ 
game. ^ ^ 
John J. Griffin, Jr. 

Tofedo 
On Dec S the club paid honor to the Im­maculate Conception by attending Mass and receiving Holy Communion In a body at Queen of the Holy Rosary Cathedral. About 50 mem­bers of the club gathered for the occasion. 
After the Mass a breakfast was served in the Cathedral hall. Guest of honor was Rev. James J. d'Toole, S.T.D., J.C.D. Father O'Toole delivered a most interesting address while stressing the place the Catholic college gradu­ate should take in the christian social order. 
The club held its first Christmas Formal since pre-war days on the evening of Dec. 26. The dance, one of the social highlights of the holi­day season, was held in the Crystal Room of the Commodore Perry Hotel. A large crowd was In attendance to enjoy the music of Jimmy Rohr and his orchestra. 
Robert F. Schramm 

Twin Cities 
In the season of holly and being jolly, the club was as active as a department store Santa Claus. On Dec 8, Universal N.D. Communion Sunday was observed by members and friends y 
Among the numerous guests at the Inndieon which the SL Louis Club sponsored on Ian. 3. the dwf oi the SL Louis VoiTeisity-Notre Dame basketball game, were, 
•i 

left to light President Albert J. Baraiino. '35, Joseph B. McGlynn. '12. Bichord C Muckeimann. '20. prendent of the St Lonis Browns. Coach John P. Flanigan of St Louis V„ Coach Edward W. Kroose, '34. of Notre Dame and OliTer L. Parks of Parks Air College. 
Z 
who (lied four front pews in St. Olars church 
In Minneapolis. The club was especially grateful and honored that the • celebrant of the Mass was Father Joseph Fowcis, C.S.C. (Father Powers is a special student at the University of Minnesota. He also teaches several classes 
t< each week at St. Thomas College in St. Faul.) Father Kelly, pastor of St- Olars, prefaced his regular sermon by welcoming the club and not­ing that, "Notre Dame men have a special gift —an outstanding Catholic education." 
Following Mass we liad breakfast at the Andrews Hotel. Over coffee we saw Art Sulli­van, '27, who had son. Art. Jr., along; three Klines — Amie, his father, Arnold. Sr., and brother Dick. Newcomer £. I. *Bamey* (Bach­elor) Barrow of Minneapolis was getting ac­quainted. 
Charles J. Hallman, *23, and nephew Don Mc-Glynn were lilcewise communicants and break* fasters. Our grand loyal trio, Michael J. Kellr. ex. '93, Ix>ais Chute, '90, and Vincent E. Mor* rison, '89—yes '89—were present. (A splendid example of their devotion to Notre Dame and its Universal Communion Sunday tradition. Has any other alumni club such a three-some?) Al Dreilinr, '38, Jim Heniker, and Bill Lord liked 
t? their cofTee and each other's conversation. Our 
^^ Tom's and Jerry's were there—^Hart and Lee, Conwasr and McKay. Over from St. Paul camp Paol and George McDemiott. 
Father Jos^h Powers spoke briefly and noted on that feast day our p.irticular and special relationship as alumni toward Our Lady. 
President Bill Goimont described the alunmi club presidents' meeting held at Notre Dame including decisions and plans. Bill disclosed plans for a pre-Lenten smoker. He was hopeful of securing films from the University high­lighting the football season. 
Over 200 couples heralded the return of the traditional Notre Dame Christmas Ball, which was held in the Continental room of St. Paul's Hotel, St. Paul on Dec. 25. 
The Continental Room was the setting — Christmas festoons, Notre Dame pennants, charming ladies, black and white tied gentle­men, Christmas and Notre Dame spirit, dance­iible music (not so dreamy though—^Eh! Jack Voyle?) all summed up to make the Ball an unqualified success. 
Ducking out during a rumba we saw a mul­titude of familiar alumni names. George Wil­-%, Uoms. John Moskalik, Jack Yelland, Gen« 
I 
O'Brien,' Frank Biad, Ed Kricic, well, almost the complete roster. Bows and our plaudits to hard working Bill Goimont, and equally diligent general chairman Bob Refers for their success­ful staging of the Ball. 
I .0 
Jotted down on the back of an insurance premium notice, and appropriately enough, was 
news that Bud Uemandt will head up the Min­neapolis General Agents and Managers Life In­surance Association this year. 
Tall and tanned. Dudley Smith, M2, and '4G bridegroom, visited in Minneapolis with 
•wife, Dorothy, during the holidays. Dud now 
boosts California as the place to live. Gene DeLay. 
Wosftingfofi. D. C. 
Seventy-five members (the record attendance for a similar function) observed Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Dec. 8. Following the Mass. celebrated by Rev. Bernard Ransinff, C.S.C., club Chaplin, In Holy Cross College |t chapel, we adjourned to the refectory of the ^ college where breakfast was generously served. 
•j " Rev. Maurice Sheehy. wartime chaplain 1 aboard the carrier Saratoga and now a member ^%^^ ^ of the faculty of Catholic University, addressed ^g|P^» the members at the breakfast meeting. George 
Howard, president, gave a very Interesting out­
line of his trip to the campus for the Club Presidents' meeting. Pat Gorman discussed plans for. the annual Christmas dance held Jan. 3. at the Carlton Hotel. 

P 
The Universal Communion Sunday committee included John McDevitt, Vut Couwar* NonMa Duke and Howard Schellenberc* 
The club held a football rally at the Carlton Hotel on Nov. 1, the eve of the Navy game. Attendance was restricted to club members. Two hundred and twenty-seven Notre Dame men were present. 
Ber. John J. Cavanaosh, C.S.C., president of the University, was the honored guest and principal speaker. Dan Colhaae, chairman of the Board of Governors, was toastmaster. Mooae Kranse and Bcmie CrinuninB, assistant coachea^ spoke briefly about the team. President, Qtmrge Howard, pres^ted last year's president, Batch Bergman, with a Notre Dame plaque in recog­nition of his services to the club. Joe McNm­mnra was chairman of the affair. 
Howard Schellenberg. 

Western Pennsylvania 
Sixty members of the club attended the Communion-Breakfast on Dec. 8. Chairman Tom O'Brien, Club President Cari link and John 3[onteverde are to be commended for the wonderful turnout. The club received Com­munion in d body at the 10 o'clock Mass at St. Paul's Cathedral, and after mass went to the Royal York for breakfast. Very Rev. B. Lanegan, C.P., from St. Paul's Monastery, was the guest speaker. Msgr. Lanegan was impress­ed by the size of the gathering and lauded the club for the example it was setting by such demonstrations of faith. 
Cart link reported on the Club Presidents meeting at the University. A lively discussion followed the report. Indicating that there will be greater interest in the future in the activ­ities of the club and the University. 
Concrete evidence of a more dynamic mem-' bcrship was manifested at the annual Christ­mas Dance held at the University Club, Dec. 
27. It was reminiscent of the affairs of the late twenties and early thirties at the Field Club. John Patterson was chairman of the dance committee. He was assisted by Jack Alonteverde, Fritz ^Vilson, Fd HnlT, Rndy Cm­kovic. Bill Suehr, Larry 0*10016, Bill Ginder and Jolm Riordon. Student Chairman John Dncato deserves special commendation for his work. The student representation exceeded all ex­pectations, and contributed materially to the success of the ball. 
Paul Lesko, who has been globe-trotting for the Coca Cola Company, managed to squeeze the dance In between continental bops. Paul and his charming wife were a welcome sight after too long an absence. Paul's brother, Atac, who was also among those present. Is a sopho­more at N. D. and a promising member of the football squad. 
Congratulations are in order for John and Mrs. Favltck, who are the proud parents of a daughter, Mary Bernadette Pavlick. 
The club wishes to extend condolences to Dr. fVoncis Hegarty and Fori Brieger on the recent death of Mrs. J. Hegarty. Dr. Francis' mother and Earl's mother-In-Iaw. 
Hago lacovettl 

West Virginia 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday found 23 club members and their wives attend­ing Mass and receiving Communion at Sacred Heart Church in Charleston. After Mass the group had breakfast at a local hotel. After breakfast members listened to a well-prepared report by President Max Hill concerning the Club Presidents* meeting recently held on the campus. Our president also introduced two new members, Don Leis and John Welch, at this meeting. 
A New Year's Eve party was held at the writer's home. Twenty members and their wives were present. Amidst horn blowing, con­fetti throwing and the singing of Auld Lang Syne, the old year was ushered out and the new welcomed In. 
A business meeting Is scheduled during the early part of February at which time a pro­gram for the year 1947 is to be presented to the members by the program committee. 
Joe JStrwmu 

Wesfvra Washiagfan 
The clab was favorably represented at St. James Cathedral on Dec. 8 by a group of mem­bers who received Communion. After the senr­icea, breakfast was served in the (Sold Room of the Gowman Hotel where our guest, Brr. Pbil D«ey, '31, gave an Inspiring talk on the immaculate Conception, Blather Daffy, who is now attached to the staff of St. James Cathe­dral, was unanimously elected the club's first chaplain. 
While sipping a second round of coffee, the boys had the opportunity of listening to Presi­dent Chas. Osboni's thorough report on the club presidents' meeting held at Notre Dame on Nov. 29-30. 
Phil Hoste 

ITouHgsfowff 
On Dec. 28, the Stambaugh Auditorium was the scene of the annual Notre Dame dance. This dance was easily the social highlight of the holiday season. The dance was under the auspices of the local student group, but was well supported by the alumni group. 
Among those seen tripping the light fantast­
tic were IVank Savage Tmatis Hiqpkins, BUI 
Eaton, G«orge Frokop and George Kelly. At the 
intermission. President Gabe Moran introduced 
former Notre Dame athletic stars—Baeky Bak­
man, Jiai Brats and Bob Dove, who are mem­
bers of the local club, and Herb Goleman, who 
came over to the dance from Canton, O., 
where he is now residing. "We were fortunate in 
having present several local students who are 
still performing for the Alma Mater. These 
included Baa» Ashbaagh, John Agnone, Bfarty 
Brnts and Jack Ifayo. As an'added attraction, 
Leo Bmrahom, Joha Brennan and Kevin O^Shcs 
ioumeyed from Cleveland to Youngstown fol­
lowing the Notre Dame-Dartmouth baskett>all 
game. 
To show their appreciation for the fine co­operation shown by the alumni In helping the students sponsor such a successful dance, the students entertained the 'old timers at a dinner dance at the Poland Country Club on the Sun­day following the dance. Among the alumni enjoying this wonderful meal were JoseiA Tas­chak. Jack Hagan, Dick Riley and Bad Ber­nard. This affair served to solidify the relation­ship between the alumni and the student or­ganizations. 
Plans are being made now to have more of these combined affairs in the near future. tommy Kerrigan 
GLEE CLUB TOUR 

The Glee Club presented concerts in four midwestem cities in a two-state tour from Jan. 26 to Jan. 29. The club opened the tour with a concert in Joliet, HI., on Sunday night, Jan. 26, and fol­lowed with progrrams in Sockford, Ol., Appleton, Wis., and Sheboygan, Wis. 
Program in each of these cities consist­ed of popular, light-classical, college and religious music. One of the features of the concerts was a comic version of the quartet from Kigoletto. 
Soloists for the club daring the tour were Patrick Sullivan, Pittsburgh; Roy O'Neill, Aurora, 111.; John Owen, Fer­guson, Mo.; Thomas Devine, ffliorewood. Wis.; and Nolan Sheehan, Tulsa, OUa. 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Andrea Petersen and Major Bubert Dan­iel Kennedy, *39. 
Lt. Cmdr. Ariene Merle Miller, USNR. (N.C.). and Thomas C. Femedins, '40. 
Miss Patricia Ann Baynham and Georee J>. Shm, MO. 
Miss Rita Marie Deltosse and lit. (jg) B" ­naid F. Smith, USNR. (M.C.), '41. 
Miss Phyllis Holdsworth and Lt. John K. Banr, TJSXAC, ex. '42. 
Miss Artheda McFaul and Paul GodoUei, •42. 
Miss Mars- Margaret Schramm and Evald M. Rodin, '44. 
Miss Beth Ann Murphy and Jlidsliipnian El­liot Dewej-, ex. "47. 
Miss Patricia Cameron and John J. McHale, 
Marriages 
Miss Mae Pauline Grat and John S. iJivelle, 
•28, Dec 26, Stamford. Conn. 
Miss Emma Lorene Jackson and Robert E. Boicbait, '32, Oct. 24, Great Lakes. III. 
Miss Martha Eleanor Scott and John A. Bald­win, '33, Dec. 28. St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Miss Edith Mary Flanagan and le o P. Me-. Itelanc, '3S, Oct. 19, I^ansing, Mich. 
Miss Georgia Ann Bettinghaus and John D. GsTSn, ^40, Dec. 28, Wilmctte, 111. 
Miss Shirley B. Byer and H. Sanford Altmaa, 
•41,
 Dec. 22, Chicago. Miss Ellen C. Johnson and John R. Malone, 

•42,
 Oct. 26, Toledo, O. The best man was James J. Malone, '44, and the ushers were Fred 

J.
 Paulmann, ^42, Robert J. "Vicars, •43. Donald 

J.
 Martin, '42, and Edward F. Brucker, '49. 


Miss Emily Callahan and George H. Cronin, ex. '44, Dec 28, Pelham, N. T. 

Miss Ruth Lorraine Schaefer and niUiam T. Snyder, '44. Jan. 25, Chicago. 
Miss Dorotliy Ann Resner and John G. Di-Girolaino, ex. '45, Dec 28, Notre Dame. Miss Norma Jeanne Morgan and Robert J. Wtaitcomb, ex. "48, Nov. S, Osceola, Ind. Miss Zuma Tumor Burrow and Cliarles B. Renaad, ex. '47, Jan. 11, Fort Worth, Tex. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. IVancIs £• Monui, *27, announce the birth of a son. Nov. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Rob«t A. Hamilton^ '28. an­nounce the birth of Mary Anne, Dec. 23. 
Mr. and Sirs. IVank C. Baton, '30, announce the birth of James Carroll, Sept. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Kane, '31. announce the birth of Michael Richard, Nov. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. fVancis W. I^eaby, '31, an­nounce the birth of James Patrick, Jan. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Ii. O'TooIe, '32, announce the birth of Mary Ann, Oct. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Klein, '32, announce the birth of a son, Oct. 23. 
ilr. and Mrs. Michael K. Koken, '33, an­nounce the birth of ^Michael Richard, Jr., Jan. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Walter Kennedy, '34, an­nounce the birth of Kathleen, Jan. 9. 
Mr. and ilrs. Franklj-n C. Hochrciter, '35, an­nounce the birth of Hugh James. Dec. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert IJ. Vitter, '35, announce the birtJi of .Sfartha Ixiuise. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Mansfield, '36. an­nounce the birth of Edward Richard. 

Mr. and Mrs. Frank J, Harphy, ni , '36. an­nounce the birth of Maureen, Nov, 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Burnett Bauer, '38, announce the birth of Teresa Helene. Nov. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Holtx, '3S. announce the birth of Robert, Jr.. Oct. 13. 
^Ir. and Mrs. Jeremiah J. Shine, '38, an­nounce the birth of Maty Ann. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold A. Williams, '38, an­nounce the birth of Anne Meredith. Jan. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred O. Kiefer, '39, announce the birth of Alfred Ott. Jr., Nov. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thontas £ . Dixon, '40. an­nounce the birth of Dennis Robert, Oct. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Flneian, '40, announce the birth of Susan Marie, Jan. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Bowd, *41, announce the birtli of Barbara. Jean Jan. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter "W- Fegan, *41, announce the birth of Michael J., Nov. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. 'niUiam J. Reishman, Jr., '41, announce the birth of "William J- n, Dec 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. O'Melia, '42, an­nounce the birth of Kathleen O'Neil, Nov. 13, 
^Ir. and "Mrs. £dward Brace Knnkle, *43, an­nounce the birth of Thomas Bruce, Jan. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edirard N, Mairay, *43, an­nounce the birth of Mary Key, Nov. 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Ran, '43. announce the ­birth of John Alden, Jan. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Sweeney, '43, an­nounce the birth of Mary Jo, Nov. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Clark. Jr., '44, an­nounce the birth of Patricia Anne, Dec. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Otto J. Mileti, Jr., '44. an­nounce the birth of Virginia Rose. Nov. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Murphy, '44, announce the birth of John Francis III, Nov. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs- Raymond J. Rnets, '44, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Bee. 10. 
Deaths 
John H. Gillespie, Creston, la., a student at Notre Dame In 1869-72. is dead accordiQ|t to word received at the the Alumni Office from the postmaster at Creston. 
Judge Patrick J. Nelson, '88, Dubuque. la-, a member of Notre Dame's first football team, in 1SS7-88, and one of Dubuque's most promi­nent citizens, died on Dec. 7 in his home. Sur­viving him are his wife, a daughter and two sons, both alumni, John J. Nelson. *30, and Thomas H. Nelson, '34. 
Judge Nelson, after finishing his legal train­ing at Notre Dame, entered the practice of law in Dubuque. Subsequently he was city attorney and county attorney and, for many years, dis­trict judge. In addition, he was outstanding in civic organizations and fraternal organiza­tions, serving as president of tlie Board of Edu­cation, trustee of Sunny Crest Sanitorium, grand knight of the Knights of Columbus and exalted ruler of the Elks, 
One of Judge Nelson's proudest memories was, of course, his membership on the first Notre Dame football team, where he played in the line as a "rusher" against the University of Michigan in April, 18S8, according to an of­ficial program of that game now hanging in the Alumni Ofllce. When the surviving members of that first team met at intervals on the campus. Judge Nelson wag usually present. He attended the latest meeting of the group, on Nov. 22-23, 1935. 
Dr. Elmer A- Schcrrer, C-E. '94. B.S. '95, a Denver physician for more than a Iialf centurj-, died Nov. 2, 1946, after suffering a heart attack. 
Dr. Scherrer was born in Denver. After leaving Notre Dame he continued his schooling at Washington University, St. Louis. He prac­ticed in Denver the rest of his life, except for a period in the Army medical corps during the Spanish-American war. 
He is survived by his wife, a daugliter, three brothers. Charles W., '93, J. Garfield, 'SS-'Oe, and William W.. 'S9-'97, and two sisters. 
Dr. William Bomett Weaver, '97. Mlamis­burg, O., died in his 71st year, on May 18, 1946, following a six-weeks illness. 
Dr. Weaver was born in Cincinnati, April 20, 1875, and died as the result of a brain hemor­rhage resulting from complications of his ill­ness. After graduating from Notre Dame, he received a doctor's degree at Cincinnati Medi­cal college. He practiced in that city for sev­eral years before taking post-graduate studies at Berlin, Germany, and special study in diag­nosis at Vienna. Austria. He returned to Mlam­isburg where he conducted a general practice of medicine for the next 40 years. At the time of his death. Dr. Weaver was the oldest practi­cing physician in his locality. 
He is sur\ived by his widow, a sister, three nephews and a grandnlece. ^ 
Hoirard F. Beecbinor, former president ol the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, died on Jan. 1 in Detroit. 
Howard ivas born In Mt Vernon, N. Y., on June 27, 1887. After leaving Notre Dame In 1903, he studied law at the University of Mich­igan and was a semi-pro baseball player. Sub­scqeuntly, for 20 years, he traveled for H. R. MoUinson and Co., sillj manufacturers, and in 1932 moved to Detroit, where he was in the insurance business until his death. 
Howard is survived by his widow, seven brothers, two of whom attended Notre Dame. Robert, ex. '09, and John, ex. '18, and three sisters. 
WUIfaun E. Beilly, a student at Notre Dame in 1901-02, was killed Nov. 9. An Indianapolis lawyer, he died as the result of a fail. He is survived by his wife, two sisters and a brother. 
Bobert A. Kasper, '07, Sawyer, Mich., is dead according to word received here at the Alumni Office. 
Coe A. HcKenna, Portland, Ore., a student at Notre Dame in 1906-08, and the father of James P., '36, and Coe A., Jr., '42, died of a cerebral hemorrhage In that city on Jan. g. 
Mr. McKenna was born in Omaha, Nebr., Oct. 
22, 1887. He was educated at the University of Portland, Notre Dame and George "Washington University, in 1921 he served as president of the Portland realty board and in 1932-23 he was a member of the state tax investigating commis­sion. From 1922 to 1937 he was a member of the Portland city planning commission. 
In 193S Mr. McKenna was elected to repre­sent Multnomah county in the Oregon le^sla­ture, g:nd in 1940 he was elected to the state senate. He was re-elected in 1944. In August, 1945, he resigned from the senate to become tax commissioner and he had been reappointed to this post for a four-year term effective Jan. 1. 1947. 
Survivors include his widow, his two sons. and a daughter. 
Francis H. Ha>-es, LIi.B. '14, 54, secretary of the class of 1914, president of the Alumni As­sociation in 1931-32, died on Jan. IS, In Chula Vista, Calif., where he had made" his home since 1933. He is sur\'ivcd by his wife, a brother and three sisters. Fluctuating health had marked Frank's recent years, but death was attributed to a cerebral hemorrhage. 
Frank Hayes contributed throughout his alumni lifetime to the progress of Notre Dame. An attorney In Chicago, and later a banker there, rising to the vice-presidency of the Union Bank of Chicago, he was active In the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. He was a regular attendant at Commencements, games, and other events on the Notre Dame campus. Through the columns of the "Alumnus" he kept In touch with his class, even after health dictated his move to California. 
But perhaps outstanding in his contribution was his interest in the financial part alumni should play In the University's progress. He was ardent in his advocacy of annual giving. Under his direction, the Living- Endowment Fund was auspiciously begun In 1930-31. Although this plan was suspended when the Rockne ^lemorlal campaign was inaugurated. It was held In high regard by University and alumni officials, and formed the basis of the Annual Alumni Fund instituted during the University's centennial ob­servance. The success of the Annual Alumni Fund is eloquent tribute to the far-sighted planning of its founder. 
Burial was in San Diego. Father Frank Gart­lantl, C.S.C., and Verj- Rev. Francis C. Ott, V-F,, San Diego, a fellow alumnus and schoolmate, represented the University of Notre Dame at the funeral. 
Lawrence J. Cleoir* '17, East Lansing, Mich., supervisor of the inheritance tax division of the ^[ichlgan department of revenue and brother of Harold J. Cleary, '17, and Gerald J. Cleary, '21, died on Dec. 7 in a Lansing- hospital after an illness of several months. 
Born in Escanaba, Mich., on March 1, 1893, Mr. Cleary operated the Delta Hotel In Esca­naba for several years. Fourteen months ago he moved with his family to Lansing. Surviv­ing him are his widow, a son and two daugh­ters and a sister, as well as his two brothers. Burial was in Escanaba. 
Thomas J> Sfolay, *26, Gas City, Ind., was In­stantly killed on Jan. 1 when the station wagon In which he was riding alone was demolished about 2 a-m. by a Pennsylvania freight train near Marion, Ind. What caused the accident has not been clearly determined. 
Born In Gas City, Tom had lived there much of his life. In recent years, however, he had resided in Marion, Ind., his headquarters as a traveling federal food Inspector under the su­pervision of Purdue University. Earlier, his work had taken him to food packing plants In Tennessee and Arizona. 
Tom was burled in Gas City following a fu­neral Mass in Holy Family Church there. He Is survived by two brothers and three sisters. 
John J. Sweeney, '26, Chicago, died suddenly 
from a cerebral hemorrhage on Jan. 6 in his 
apartment. 
Born on May 3. 1904, In Pana, HI.. John went to work for the Commonwealth Edison Co. In Chicago following his graduation from Notre Dame. He remained there until 1942. when he became associated with George P. Hartnett, '26, In the Marwood Company, commodity brok­ers. In Chicago. Traveling widely In late years, he became a prominent figure in the peanut in­dustry. 

John was burled in Pana, following Mass .there In St. Patrick's Church. Earlier there 
had been a short wake in Chicago. Surviving 
him are three aunts and a cousin. 
J. Kenneth Qnalley, '27, South Bend, secre­tary and general manager of the Hoffmann Hotel corporation, died of a heart atack In bis home on Nov. 22. 
Ken, bom at Lake Andes, S. D.. May 26, • 1905, was married to Deeds Dedrick In the Tjog Chapel on the campus shortly after his spradu­ation. Working as a hotel employee even as a Notre Dame student, he had risen in the past 20 years to be one of his community's top hotel executives. 
He is survived by his widow, his mother, a son. and a sister. 
^lichoel P. Slianahon, B.S.Cfa.E., '30, Marion. Ind., Is "deceased," aqcording to a notation just received from the post office department. Details, It is hoped, will be available for the next issue of the "Alumnus." 
As was briefly noted In the December "Alimi­nus," Paul M. 3IaIIoy, '43, Tusa, Okla., son of the late Patrick M., '07, and brother of Patrick H., *3C, was killed instantly In an automobile accident in the residential district of Tulsa on Nov. 30. 
After receiving his degree from Notre Dame, Paul entered the Army. Following his release from service, he had been working for six months In his own drilling business at Pazhpa, Tex. He was home to visit his mother during the Thanksgiving holidays when the fatal acci­dent occurred. 
Paul was one of Oklahoma's leading golfers, having participated In many golf tournaments in Oklahoma and Colorado. He was, before the war. an outstanding polo player, and while at the University was prominent in boxing, being crowned Bengal Bout champion four years in a row. He also played on the University golf team. 
He is survived by his mother and two brothers. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Baymond W. Ihust, *26, on the death of his twin brother, Willard; to Joseph J. iMngUm, '28. on the death of his father; to Joseph W. Lonber, '29. on the death of his father; to Thomas A. (Kitty) Gorman, *33, on the death of his infant daughter; to Cieorce M. Cwaig, *38, on the death of his father; to Thomas W. Wok­ovUs, '3S. Bill, '44. and the late Fkark, '38. on the death of their mother; to Daniel !*> l.auffhlln, MO, on the death of his father; to Daniel A. DeVries, *42, on the death of his father; to John T. Gibbons, '42. on the death of his brother; and to John F. IPo^nrt Jr., '46, on the death of his father. 
PERSONALS 
m AAA QO ^^^^- JOHN A. MeSAMABA, IOTU"T T St. Joseph Mineral Batbs, Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
Father John MacNomani, although still in delicate health, is able to offer Mass each day at Mt. Clemens, and he is much gratified ac­cordingly. He writes that he seldom hears from' anybody in the 1S30-99 era. 
Tlie Rev. Joseph Mmnlre, C.S.C., 'SS, one of 

the few living members of the Congregation of 
Holy Cross who knew the Very Rev. Edward 
Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, on Dec. 
21 celebrated the 50th anniversary of his ordi­
nation. 
A native of Blythe, England, Father Ma­ffulre is the present superior of the Commun­ity House at Notre Dame. He was president of St. Edward's - University, Austin, Ter., froa 1934 to 1937. Prior to that, he had been the head of the Department of Chemlstrr at Notre Dame from 1898 to 1920. He was ordained at Notre Dame on Dec. 21, 1896, by the late Bishop Rademacher of Fort Wayne, Ind. 
From 1920 to 1931 Father Magnire was vice-president of St. Edward's University. He ira* appointed pastor of St. Patrick's Church in South Bend in the latter year, serving as midi until 1934 when he returned to St. Edward's as president.He then was reappointed pastor of St. Patrick's In 1937. Three years later he was named superior of the Community House at Notre Dame. 
101 9 'ADI. K. BSWO. UBivmttr Ukmr, 
•'• ^ Notre Dam^ lad. Bill Cotter has been named a vice chairman for the New Tork University-Bellevue Medical Center Fund and chairman of the Commerce and Industry division. This division has a gosl 
of four mUllon dollars in gifts from large New York corporations in a drive to start April 16. 
John T. OVtmmta has opened law offices at 38 S. Dearborn St. in Chicago after his Novem­ber defeat at the polls. He was seeking re­election to the probate bench. 
1914 
BUI Redden is practicing architecture at 951 
N. Federal Highway, Fort I,auderdale, Pla. 
I A | V B. J. TOIX, MS E. TWt St., Soath 
• ' • ' Bend, bd. 
30-yEAR REUNION 
MAT 30-31. lUNE 1 

Elmer Tabimfa daughter, Barbara, Elgin, HI., Is a violinist in the San Antonio, Tex., Sym­phony Orchestra. She performed in a radio con­cert at the end of the year on the "Orchestras of the Nation" program over NBC. Barbara Is a 1946 graduate of the Rochester School of Music 
Report from the Alumni Office mailing, com­puting and pleaae-do-come division; By now," you've all received Bende ToU'k (enerous in­vitation of Jan. 11 to attend the 3ath reonion of the class In his home on Ironwood Road, a mile or so east of the campus, within the ireek­end of Friday, Saturday and Sunday, May 30, 31 and June 1. That is, of course, the weekend . of the official Alumni Reunion and Commence­ment on the campus, and all reunioners, of '17 and all other classes, will, as m prewar days, be housed on the campus. 
Up to the time this page was made up for the press, Bemie had received enthusiastic acceptances from; Ijawrcnce Wdd^ Indianap­olis (who will also deliver Hanry Scott and IVcddle MalHrtrer of the same city). Dr. I«o OrDaoBca and I«o To«ci, both of Pittsburgh. Bvyal Boaakard and Ed Bocen, Milwaukee: John CmmldTt Peoria; Taal Fogaity, Baaajr HUgartner and Aastin HeMichob, Chicago: Radr Miller, Cellna, O.; Chariie Reacan, New Tork City: Stan Cotall (new director or the Department of Liquor Control of the state of Ohio), Cleveland and Columbus: John V. BUcTi Portland, Me.; Dr. Mike Ncn , Kansas City, Mo.; Beniie MUIcr, Racine, Wis.; Diefc I>aler> Erie. Fa.; Orim O'Briaii, Grand Rapids; and Iieon Rasrifll, Jackson, Mich. Fresstime addi­tions; Red Giafeaas, Chicago. Dan Cnrtis, Rock­ford. 111. 
No "regrets" so far, and only two "rm nol sures"—one from Jndf^e George naats , I,an­caster. Wis., and the other from AttotacT Bok Oair, '16, Ottawa. III., who received his A.IC with the class of '17. 
A phenomenal record, we'd say in the Alum­ni Office, and one which la a partlcniar trlbnte to the magnlflcent hospitality which the class 
enjoyed in 1937 and again In 1942 in the home of Bernard and Helen Voll. Any one who was at either of those two parties wants to come to the 1947 repeat, and bring his classmates with him. 
And, of course, more and more acceptances will be coming in. If you haven't sent yours, better get the carrier pigeon off at once to Bcrnie at the address above. 
 W. DUFFT, ICOO Terminal 1921 1>AS Ohio. 
Tower, Cleveland, 
Chariie Davis is a retail furniture dealer in Oswego, N. Y. 
Frank Coa^hlin, South Bend, has been re­appointed first assistant attorney general for the state of Indiana, with offices in Indian­apolis. 
Senator Norm Barrj* of Chicago started his second term in the Illinois legislature in Jan­uary. 
Arch Ward, "Chicago Tribune" sports editor, was recently presented by the War Department with a certificate of appreciation for his pro­motion of many sports events which benefited soldiers and veterans over the past five years. Tlie award was presented by Gen. "W. H. Walk­er, commanding the Fifth Army. 
1099 GERAI.D ASHE, 39 Cambridge St., I * fcfc Rochester 7, N. Y. 
25-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30-3L JUNE 1 

From Kid Ashe: It is not too early to sound a clarion call an­nouncing to all and sundrj* that the gala 25th anniversary celebration of our class graduation is coming up this year on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. May 30, 31 and June 1. Do you realize that only slightly more than three months' time will elapse from the reading of this mes­sage to the grand opening of festivities? Con­template the fact also that only one more is­sue of the "Alumnus" comes between now and the anniversary celebration! 
Just a few words of warning to all to insure good attendance. Please arrange your business and social matters so that none will interfere with your appearance at Notre Dame on the dates mentioned. We do not want to hear you say you could not attend because you had to see a man about a horse. Go and see about the horse right now. 
Chariie Hirschbulil of far away Portland, Ore., promises to be present. Judge Al Scott and Gene Kennedy of Los Angeles hope to ar­range their affairs so they can be on hand. We can count on Dan Young, Bill Costellinl, £d Bailey, Joe Farley, Jcrrj- Dixon, Jim Jones^ Doc Hnclies, Harold HcKee, Tom 31cCabe, George Heneg:han, Tony Schiavoiii, Frank Bloemer, Jim Foren, Ray Keams, Joliii Paul Cullen, Will Dwyer, Jerr>- Junes, Kem Xyhan, Jim Shaw, Walter Stuhlclrelicr, Mar>- Storen and Chet Wynne to show up. Also, we can surely count upon that grand and loyal group from South Bend for real supporL They include Pat Manlun, Harold Weber, Aaron Huguenard, Gene Smaller, Fred Dressel, Gerald Brubaker, Richard Glneckert, I,eo Lovett, Bcrnie Mc-Caffres', Paul Faden, M'atter Shilts and others. 
The grand chairman for the 25tli anniver­sary celebraiton is j\aron Kugneranl of South Bend. His address is 555 Associates BIdg. Write him now that you are going to attend and to pledge your support. 
Cyril ''Cy" Rtes is manager of power brake development for tlie Wagner Electric Co., St. 
IrOUiS. 
Dr. Henry **Hank" Atkinson of Green Bay, Wis., is now team physician for the Green Bay Packers professional football team. Hank, of course, accompanies the Packers on all of their road trips. In Los Angeles in the late fall, he had a nice visit with l«o U'ard and Gene Kra­nedy. 
Boy! Fetch me a stimulant. What is this I hear about Jadce Al Scott being in the movies? Let your scribe quote Hedda Hopper, In her column "Looking at Hollywood": 
"Johnny Considine, responsible for putting 'Boys Town* on the screen, has another story which he thinks is even better. Titled 'Unloved and Unloving.' it's written about the life of Jndg« Al Scott, son of our famous lawyer, Joe. The judge is the hero. Other characters are a priest and a distinguished Jewish surgeon." 
Dan Yoonff, Drexel Hill, Pa., recently ad­dressed members of the Militarj- Engineers and the Engineering Society of Cincinnati at a Joint meeting of the American Society of Civil Engi­neers. Dan, a director of Foley Brothers, Inc., Pleasantville, N. T., discussed technically the construction of three of the world's largest drydocks, two at Philadelphia and at Ports­mouth, Va. Dan was job manager for the Dry-dock Associates, a combination of the three firms which built the three drj-docks. 
IQ9 9 PAUL. H. CAST^HBR, S6 Hoyt Ave., ' '^ ^ ?few Canaan,'Conn. 
Leo Rieder, attorney in South Bend, spoke recently at the Catholic Forum. South Bend. on the subject "Dante and the Divine Comedy." 
I Q^A ^' ' - HAYSS, 60 £lm ATC^, Lwdu 
• ' A"? mont, N. Y, 
Fred Mancoso is back in law practice again in the Dicrks Bldg.. Kansas City, Mo., after bis recent separation from the service. 
I on e JOHN P. HURLEY, JR., £085 Brook­
• '• ^ dale Rd., Toledo, O. 
MILLER COMBATS DELINQUENCY 
Don Miller, '25, of Four Horsemen fame, now United States attorney in Cleveland, was named recentlr by Attorney General Tom C. CiaA to represent him in the efforts of the Deportment of Justice to combat the growing problems of juvenile delin­quency in the country. 
As a first step in the Department's program in this direction, a meet­
. ing, supervised by Attorney Gen­eral Clark, was held in Washington in December. In attendance were some 20 sports writers from all parts of the country who discussed the part which sports might play in anti-delinquency plans. President Tnunan received the group in his office. 

Jerry Benningr has been with Haskins and Sells .accounting firm, Harris Trust Bldg., Chi­cago, for almost 20 years. He has just been pro­moted to the ofiice in Portland, Ore., and will eventually take complete charge of that entire area. He is an expert on public utilities from an accounting viewpoint, and recently he was on a speaking tour for Haskins and Sells. 
Jim Crowley has resigned as high commis­sioner of the All-American Professional Foot­ball League to become part owner and bead coach of the Chicago Hockets. 
Adam Walsh has resigned as head football coach of the Los Angeles Rams in the National Professional Football League. His immediate plans for the future were not disclosed. Adam coached Santa Clara in 1925-26-27. and spent 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

seven years as line coach at Tale, followed by * one at Harvard. He was at Bowdoin College In Maine before coming to Notre Dame as line coach in 1944. 
Coach Ross Arndt dropped out of the foot­ball picture at Mishawaka, (high scliool) Ind., after 14 seasons. Ill health forced Russ to cease adding to his impressive record of 80 won, S tied and 35 lost. He Is continuing as a teacher in the high scliool. 
*The most ardent N. D. booster east of Sie MissiBsippL" to quote his good friend Father Nonnan Johnson, C.S.C., editor of **The Eengolese," George Chao, '25, a pro­fessor of philosophy at Aurora, a Catholic college in Shanghai, is shown here with his wife and child. Father Johnson as an Azmy chaplain saw George several times in Shanghat 
**Prevzous to the war, George was at Cotholic University in Peiping," Father Johnson writes . . . '*He is doing quite a bit.of pamphlet-writing, is translating The Summa' into Mandarin, is teaching, cmd is a mouthpiece for Notre Dome." 
I QOA VICTOR F. I.EMMRR, Box 661, Iron­
• '* 0 wood, Mich. 
From Tic Lenuner: 
Roman Feldponsch, of Hastings, Mich.. J. Arthur Ifonmer, tending In Septembe dren apiece. How many other '2Gers will have sons at N.D. next fall? 
Iforold ''Senator" Watson, *25. of ^fitwaukee. is the field representative of the New Haven Underwriters, and the Security Insurance Co. He makes Ironwood and northern Wisconsin as a part of his territory. 
J. Vincent Solsson, native of ConnellsviUe, Pa., is an engineer with the "West Penn Power Co. He has been with them for 20 years. He is now located at "Washington, Pa. 
Dooley add.: When Vic wrote the news above, he did not know of the sudden deaths of two of our members—^Tom Malay and John Sween­ey—Honest John. So, for the class, I extend to the families of both Tom and John a great deal of sj-mpathy and the promise of many prayers. Most of us knew both of them well and will miss them keenly. 
George Hartziett and John had been close friends ever since 1922 and for the past several j-ears the two of them had been associated in the commodity brokerage business, in the Mar-wood Company, Chicago. George wrote as fol­lows regarding John's death: 
"He had complained of a headache on Satur­day and Sunday, and called a friend In a near- ^B by apartment to tell him that he would not go 
' to work Monday. This was at 8:30 A.M. He called our offices and left word—at 8:57 A.M. —that he was ill, and asked that I stop by to see him. I called him shortly after 9:00, and when there was no answer I asked that the 
1 ^ manager of the building check John to see if 
^ he was all right. He called back and said he could not arouse John, so wo quickly phoned Dr. Jimmy Stack and the priest. A few minutes later I reached his apartment and found Jim and the priest there and John was dead. 
"He was lying in bed with his rosary to his lips—he died the way he lived—and whether he ever knew what was happening to him will re­main his and his Blessed Mother's secret for­ever. At any rate, his life and death were in -Xotre Dame tradition—close to Our Lady. . .,. He didn't win a monogram at Notre Dam^, but when his body was removed from his apart­ment you could see the imprint of the rosaiV on the side of his face-[ 
George said that Jerry HcDermott and Joe Shea came from St. Louis to join George at John's funeral in his home town of Pana, Ill-George, Jerry and John at one time lived t|o­gether in Chicago. Later John lived with Joe Shea. Until shortly before his death, he had shared his Chicago apartment with Ijyle Horen­cey, '27, who moved -to Winter Haven, Pla-
Two '26 deaths within a week. Th« thought of that started me to wondering just how many of the hardy gang who braved the ele­

« | ments on that Sunday afternoon of June. 1926, 9 have "signed out." It seemed to me that the class has ben hit especially hard by death. 
True enough. A recheck of the Alumni office records shows that 26 men who received bach­elor's degrees in 1926 are now dead. They are: Xorb Arehort, Ben Bourne, Sidney £der, Clem KiUnc, John Flynn, Os Gniesse, Coyne Hatten, George King* Dale Kahns, John lAvelle, Maor­ice McElliKott, Wilbur McElroy, Hanrice "Sam" XcNolty, Tom 31alay» Dick Heyer, Bob Moyni­haxkt Bob Morphy, Blike Mnrray, John "Jake** Pnrcell* Ed Rowley (killed Nov. 26. 1925, re­ceived posthumous degree), Joe Sexton^ Cbarlie Springer, Gene Sullivan. John Sweeney, Don Trombley and John Tignos. H. I. P. 
Vince Jjemmer, in sending in his news, made a plea for some help from you guys. He's wait­ing and ready to write a lot of '26 stuff for each issue of the "Alumnus," but he can't spin news out of thin air—even in northern Michi­gan. So how about a lift—pronto? 
1927 JOSEPH M. BOLAMD, Radia StaUon WSBT, Sonth Bena, Ind. 
20-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30-31, JUNE 1 

From Joe Boland: Putting first things first .. . be reminded now that June, 1947, brings with It the 20th reunion of the class of "27 . . . and we're al­ready making plans here to insure the finest of all such affairs. Local committees are working toward that end. . , . We would like to have such individuals as John McManmon for Lo­well, Boston, and points north, represent their sections as sectional-leaders for the reunion. A partial list of others would be Bemie Ab­bFott, in the Oakland-San Francisco area; Ed VclAOghlin in Chicago; I^nTence ''Dink" Hen­neosey for Vlcksburg. and points south; fVitz \mson in Pittsburgh; Tince McNally In Phila­delphia; Ted Beiiccry In New York; to begin tentative operations now. 
A full list will be named In the April "Alumnus" with all to be Informed by letter of their new (and uninvited) responsibility for the 20th annual reunion here In June. Natural­ly . . . we're expecting all class officers to show up. Remember them? I^wxence H. Hennewey,, Vlcksburg. Miss., president; Daniel W. HcClos­key» Janesville, Wis., vice-president; Edmnna 
J. I<eClercq, of South Bend, treasurer; and Bait 
?m 
C>VftTcn, of Leechburg, Pa., treasurer. 
Already, Dink Hennessey checked In. I had the pleasure of dinner with him, his wife, and 
Hov»ee Guy SpDIer, of Houston, Tex., with his wife, in New Orleans on the week-end of the Tulane game. Theon Dohogve, "Frenchy" to most of us, of Memphis, Tenn.. also checked in there; so did Tommy Green, from Houston. Tex. 
By now you're probably acquainted with the story of Kenneth Qoalley's sudden, and too-early, death here in South Bend. As managing^ director of the Hoffmann Hotels Corp., Ken had made an outstanding success story for himself. I got the news, along with the others of '27 I named, in New Orleans. 
One other bit of news from the Jewel of the South: met Fknnk David's brother, who told me the little man was located In New Orleans with the U.S. Engineers Corp. . . . married, and en­gaged in living happily ever after! He'd better get back up the Mississippi for that reunion! 
Tom Hearden made an outstanding record with his St. Norbert's College football team at De Fere, Wis., this past season. One of the very few teams In the country to be undefeated, and untied. That's not new for Tom, though .. . he's done it with many a team In the past, over at Green Bay, In high school coaching. 
Robert Charles Gof>denow, once of Berlin, 

. Wis., is now Rev. Robert C. Goodenow. S.J. He dropped In to WSBT for a short visit not so long ago . . . with word that he was currently stationed at Hlnes Hospital, Chicago, I be­lieve . , . shortly to transfer his activities to West Baden. Ind. I won't vouch for those lo­cations—my memory Is so bad these days. Vva. strictly a "from script" guy! 
Marc Hehrer got over from his Hamilton, C , law practice for the U.S.C. game .. . looked fine, said he felt better. And I traveled to Dav­enport. Iowa, for the St. Ambrose Academy football dinner recently—there to meet IiCo "Butch" Herbert, another prospering lawyer of that city. Another '27 lawyer—these fellows DO pop up—AI Doyle, now president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of the St. Joseph Valley, staged a very fine 27th annual testi­monial dinner for the 1946 Notre Dame Na­tional Champions the other night. 
Dave Von Wallace .. . of Detroit, was pre­sented with a specially-constructed Hallicraft­ers radio-receiving set that permits him to tune in by simply brushing a hand across a specially-sensitized band. Red Bteher . . . Snaky-Hips In person .. . made the presenta­tion: he's now assistant sales-manager for Hal­licrafter. With Ray Durst, vice-president of Hallicraftcrs and another Notre Dame alumnus Maher called on Halllcrafter 'engineers to de­sign the set. Orchids to both! 
Clyde Schamel is an electrical engineer with Fisher Body Division In Detroit. 
Neil Regan reminds the Alumni Office that the 20th anniversary of the class will be coming up In May of this year. He is planning on at­tending, - and presumes that a goodly group of the '27 men will be on hand. 
109 0 I^VIS F. BCCKLEY, Sodal Security 
• '^ O Adminstration, Room 400, UOO Ches­ter. St., Cleveland 14, O. 
From I<oa Buckley: I had as a member of my audience at a talk I gave recently at the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems In Columbus, O., none other than John R> ^Inrphy. John Is special agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co, with offices at 51 N. High St, in Columbus. John, who you will remember as being from Fort Wayne, is married and has two children. He gave me a report on the other '28 men in Columbus, all of whom are practicing law. They are John Fontana, Joe Canty and Alex Domb^. 
Hon-ie Fbalin, who was In service for 35 months, returned from the Pacific a year ago. He has returned to his Job with the Quarrle Corp., educational publishers, 35 E. Wacker Drive. Chicago. Howie lives near Dick Phelaa In Wllmette. He reports that he has seen Bob Knox who Is located In Benton Harbor, Mich.. where he has his own architectural studio. Bd McKeown, In addition to his successful law practice, owns a Chrysler agency in. Chicago. One day last summer when Howie changed planes In Joplln, Mo., he met Ragcr Nolaa who is manager of the airport there. Owrtjki S^mder stopped In Howie's office. He is living In Detroit Lakes, Minn., and has five children. 
Tl>ee Cmtmej wrote from Rochelle. HI., where he is kept busy with his three daughters and one son. his clothing business, and the presi­dency of the Rock River Valley Club. Ylnce mentioned that he saw Cd Dcwk of Monessen, Pa., at the meeting of the club presidents in November. Ed is the father of three or foar little Deans and is full of ambition to keep' things rolling for the alumni just south of Pittsburgh. 
Vince sees Red I^hey in Dixon on occasions. Zldc SV^ Is still taking charge of the many mysteries of the Dfs. Dare and Edwud Mmr~ jfhj office. Vince and his wife plan another trip to Mexico In February, their fifth since 1936. He expects to see Goanie Octao« at Hacienda La Purrlsslma, Tuxpan. Jalisco, which is about 550 miles west and south of Mexico City. Vince has visited Bob Bvana at Vlcksburg, Miss., on several occasions. Bob Is busy providing lum­ber for the world. 
9burty Ryaa responded to my appeal for news from Buffalo where he lives at 49 Vl". Mo­hawk St. Marty has been with the Railway Express since returning from service. When he was at Bradley Field, W. H. Murphy of Chicago was in the same squadron. Bcnde Bifd is now deputy city treasurer of Buffalo. fwmnk. COBiiDCB Is still the No. 1 man of Ar­cade. N. T.. and the proud father of two boys. 
Phil O'CoBBor is back from service and Is with the Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester, 
N. T. Gay JTCBUB* has deserted teaching and is with a trucking company in Buffalo. Martie sees Bin DowdaU quite often. He also men­tioned that he was talking to Joe Miiiilfj at the Army game and the subject of our 20-year reunion waa the chief topic of discussion. 
John Davis of Oswego. N. T., was through Cleveland on his way to attend the Furniture Mart in Chicago. Unfortunately I was out of town, so missed him. 
IX, Col. Iieo J. Sehaltbets is attending the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk. Va. Anthony Beudng, who hails from Glandorf, 
C. has'been with duFont's. Penns Grove, N. J., ever since graduation as a scientist. At Notre Dame. Tony was secretary to the late XUker Niemrkuidy and helped In the experiments on synthetic rubber. During World War 11, he waa one of the key men on-atomic bomb projects for duPont. He recently returned from a busi­ness trip In England and France. 
Louis F Baddey« '28* a m«mb«r of tit* Alumni Board and McrotoiT of tho daw of '28 since 1928* wos rs­cently oleded president of the Catli­oUc Eeononue Auociation. Lou to ^ office on Jan. 25 at the annual meeting of the Association in At­lantic CStr. N. 7. 
10^ 0 'A^tnS B-'SOWEBX, P. O. Box 1M5, 
Get out the welcome bells for Iwmtm B. ••DWt** Nowery as the new secretary of the 1929 class. When Dick was up from Shreveport for the Club Presidents' meeting on Nov. 29­30, he offered to take on the white man's bur­den for *29 provided Joe MeNaaaara, much too tied up with many things, was willing to give up. And Joe was more than willing, and sent best wishes to Dick. 
So, gentlemen, your new secretary — Dick Kew«fy. How about giving him a lift—quick? 
From DidE Nawevy: I attended the Club Presidents* meeting. Nor. 29-30. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

In attendance from "29 were Tom iloiphj- of Connecticut: Alnce Carney, Rochelle, 111.; Dr. Phil Hemnune, Elgin, 111.; Paul Bortsch, Akron, O.; Johnnie Horan, Youngstown, O.; Con Corey, of Malone, N. T.; and lYonk Meyer, of Ham­mond, Ind. 
. P)a«I Bertsch is managing a paper company In Akron; Moran is with a steel company in Toungstown; Con Carey is a judge in northern New York; Phil Henuning is a specialist in obstetrics, and he states Jim Xobin is doing okay; both are at Blgin, and Yours Truly is a drilling contractor in Shreveport. 
In the Campus cafeteria I saw Bob Tjler of Kansas City. Also Jolin Dorgan, who is doing a swell business at law In Chicago and is also interested In an oil company there. Vic Ess­roffer Is in Chicago; he is heading up a group of Ford agencies. Saw Fred Sliller at the game (Southern Cal). 
Say, let's hear from Leo Biemcl, Jim Brady, Harold Bair, Honk Burns, Ving Cline, Paal Claifc, Charley Colton, Fred Cunningluun, Hon-­ard Doll, Wait Grey, Jr., Bob Hughes, Tommy Byan, Doc Dougherty, Joe Keefe. Drop Jfoweiy a line. P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport, La. Hurry! 
Frank Smola is educational director with the National Dairy Council in Chicago. 
HABOU) E. DDKE, 1030 >". Brand 1930 St. Piiiladelphia, Pa. 

From Harold Duke: Just received a note from IVank Jonato that he was transferred by International Harvester from St. Louis to St. Paul. His new address Is 265 Mt. Curue Blvd. in St. Paul. We ask that when he gets settled, more will come In about the "Thirties" In and around St. Paul. "What say, Frank? 
While out to the recent meeting at Notre Dame, I had the opportunity to talk with John Conlin and have him promise to contribute to our column soon. Con Carej- and Tom Mnrpliy were other delegates and prospects for news from their respective localities. Leo McAloon, not one bit smaller In stature, was also present. Leo seems to be kept pretty busy as racetrack commissioner, funeral director and (as a side­line) operator of a tourist bureau. 
Ran Into Jolu) Golden and Bill SlcCarfhy, down from Chicago for tlie Southern Cal game. John and Bill are to give us some dope on the Chicago classmates in the near future—so they said; Chnck Rohr and Lou Stettler also were game visitors. 
At a "Small" party in Mart}- Brill's room at the Oliver had occasion to greet Bert Sletz­gw and Joe Savoldi. Marty has given up the coaching profession and returned to his old job on the Coast. Bert, except for considerably less hair, looks just the same as ever and, of course, "Jumping Joe" Is in tip top shape due to all the wrestling he does.. 
Dapper Dr. Dick O'Toole was another guest at the "Little" party. Besides having the "Doc­tor" prefix to his name, Dick looked every bit the part of a distinguished medico, with his smart Chesterfield and derby hat. 
To Bcrnie Conroy: I heard that you were at both the Army and Southern Cal games and tried my best to locate you—just no luck; how about a line or two from you? 
109 1 WAI.TEB F. PHnjPP. 4 Piclrivick ' " ^ ' I^ne^ Kewtonm Square, Pa. 
Dan Haliin, Camden, N. J., a pioneer in the promotion of commercial television, has been appointed RCA "Victor television receiver sales manager. 
Ban is .a past president and director of the American Television Society, a member of the Sales Executives Club of Kew York and the Western Universities Club, and a past presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of New York City. During the past year and a half he has addressed 100 organizations and trade groups on the subject of television. 
Joe Baineri is district attorney of Iron Coun­ty, Wis., and lives at Hurley, Wis. 
M Grisantl, along with his brother. Bob, '40, has opened a law office in Cleveland. The ad­dress is 1035 Williamson Bids-
Rev. Richard £. Carfoerry, a graduate stu­dent at Notre Dame in 1931, who died aboard a Japanese prison ship while serving as an .\rmy Chaplain during World War 11, will be honored by a memorial chapel at his home parish, Silverton, Ore., the W^ar Department recently announced. 
Father Carberrj*, whose death marked the first loss of a priest to the archdiocese of Port­land, Ore., in either war. was a brother of three Notre Dame men—Glenn M. "Jndee" Car­l>erry, '23, of New York City, John W. Oailier­ry, '35, Los Angeles, and Thomas P. Ouliciiy, Ames, la., who attended Notre Dame during the 1930-31 schoolyear. 
m 09 4 JAMES K. COUJNS, 30:1 W. 3rd I y^A St., Dayton, Oliio. 
15-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30-31, lUNE 1 

From Jim Collins: "With June swiftly approaching-, bringing our 15-year reunion, it is time to start arranging your time so that you can be present for our first real reunion in ten years" is the theme of numerous letters received from members of the class. 
Our five-year reunion was fine, with over 200 present, but a single-day's meeting due to the University's wartime program forced the ten-year anniversary to a handful of that number. However, this year with everyone back from the 5er\-ices and conditions more normal, there are already many plans being naade lor at­tendance. 
From Herb Gior^o and Don Byan In New Torlz, Paul O'Toole and IPran O^erich in Chi­cago. EYank I>enn3r in San Francisco and Bob Lee in Honolulu the word has been passed that the boys will be meeting and malcing up for the past ten years. 
I feel it is unnecessary now to appoint com­mittees to encourage attendance but I will ask, in conjunction with the entire Alumni Associ­ation, tliat each emmber of the class do every­thing he can to attend and to encourage others to be there. 
Bob liCe is out of the Xa\*y but still living and working in Honolulu. He plans to be back in time for the reunion. 
Fool O'Toole writes that, between the excite­ment of a daughter, Mary Ann, being bom on Oct. 15. building a house, and reestablishing his real estate business, he has been busy. He was released from the Na^-y on March 15. 
Gabe Moran writes from Toungstown that J^eo JPagan paid him a visit recently and re­counted the histories of tlie Mar-Main Arms. Xaturally. John Kramer's name was prominent in the conversation; John, incidentally, is back from commanding an LST In the Pacific and gives his address as 950 Dierks Bldg., Kansas City, Mo. Gabe is purchasing agent for the Automatic Sprinkler Corp. £. DeBartcla is In the contracting business In Toungstown. 
W'sdt Mnllen was at the So. Cal. game and told mc that he often sees Jack 3(attx|rcT in Cincinnati, where Jack is living now. 
Art jGIasgovr, also at the game. Is ll\*ing in Cleveland, and is an ofllclal with the Federal Housing Authority there. 
Ted Hialpin has been appointed district man­ager of the duPont Paint and Varnish for the Omaha division, and has recently moved his family there from Indianapolis. 
By the next issue I hope to have the com^ plete calendar of the Keunion—plan to be there. 
Cbaries Filliard Is president of the Ii^rst Federal Savings and X^oan Association, Mich­igan City, Irid. 
109 9 TIGHE WOODS, 8016 Clyde Ave., 
* ' * ^ Chica«ro, IIL 
£ d McKcerer, recently resigned .Cornell TJni­versity coach, has signed a contract to pilot the University of San Francisco football team for the next three seasons. 
^0^A JOSEPH B. GI^ENNOX, Jr., Com­17^ 1 meicial Solvrnts Corp., 17 E. 43nd St., New Tortc City, 17. 
Mike Wiedl Is managing director for the Southern Machinery and Metals Exposition and Industrial Forum, which Is being held in At­lanta. Ga., on April 14-17, 1947. 
Bob Meyer has been appointed as director of athletics and head football coach at the new Jersey City Junior College. 
VQ^ e FBANKLYN C. HOCHREITER, 1327 
• '^ 9 Fentwood Boad, Baltimore 13, Md. 
From Hocli: Since our last trip to press we made that contemplated trip to Kew Tork City and picked up a few traces among the *35 crowd. 
It was like old times to see A'ince Gorman ^ and liouis Groeso again. Vince, now Br. Gorman ^ as you all know, has been a civilian for near­ly a year and has returned to New Tork Hos­pital to complete his residence In surgery. We finally had the opportunity to meet Alberta, Mrs. Gorman, and after dinner one evening "did" Manhattan for the first time in many a day. 
After hearing a little of Vince's Navy exper­iences In the Pacific we caught up with Iionis Gn>960*s Army career In the European theater. This was the first we liad seen of IJOUIS In eight years and there was a great deal to "bull" about. He, too, is married. Kay Is a combination medical social worker and nurse, so the fencing champ ought to have very good care should he return to playing with sabers. 
We saw Louis the afternoon of our departure and he was delayed three trains beyond the ap­pointed time of leaving. The old story then came to life. Louis carried our bag into the train and it suddenly began to roll. Grosso vio­lently protested to the conductor that the train could not leave as It was not time. During his verbal protestations he continued to pour gigan­tic poundings on the steel doors. At Newark, friend Louis was able to leave to return on the next train. Already he was nearly an hour late in meeting Kay. M 
Incidentally, Grosso Is pursuing a quasi-legal ' career witli the Estate Planning Corp. at 20 Pine Street in the "big town." He is living on 
E. GSth St. Gorman continues to house his fam­ily in Rahway, N. J., though Vlnce spends a great deal of his time at the hospital. 
Tom Proctor was not in town during our visit. Called Mrs. P. and found that Tom was on another trip for his firm In the ilid-West. Tom is continuing with the same organization and is one of their patent attorneys. 
While "awaiting" our train In the Penn Sta­tion we ran Into Ed O'Connor, '33. We had not seen Ed in years, having taken his position at. Catholic Charities in Buffalo In the '30s when he went with tlie State. Ed Is living in New Tork and Is handling financial campaigns for the National Catholic Welfare Conference in Its foreign relief drives. 
A number of Christmas cards came from the gang, but only Mitch Saleh Included a note. We give you his message: 
"We missed you at the N.D.-Tulane game in New Orleans. Here's a little info for your column: — some of the dope may be a little old and outdated, but take it for what It is worth. 
- "I.was released to Inactive duty as a lieuten­ant. U-S. Naval Beserve, on June 10, 1946, after ^ four, years with the Navy, here, there and yon-™ der. I have decided to remain here In Tyler [Mitch's home] In the construction business rather than return to Houston and my old Job ^Houston Light and Power Co.). 
**Wtay Keatinff, C.P.A., Is with the R. J. St 
^_) Germaine Co. in Houston. Tom Standish Is with the Houston I*ight and Power Co. Joe I^ynch was also a lieutenant in the Navy and since re­turning to civilian life has been with the Fire­stone Co. (research division) in Indianapolis. 
"Claremje PIckard is with the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. In Indianapolis. I saw Camille GmTcl and Jerry Boyle in New Orleans for the Tulane game. Camille Is practicing law in the liomc town of Alexandria. La., and Jerry is a sales representative worlcing in and out of Beaumont. Tex. 
"During the war I had a brief chat with Joe UnderiEoffer (then lieutenant, J.g.) who was visiting aboard our aircraft carrier while we were docked in Xorfolk. Va. "While in Norfolk. I,t. Comdr. Joe McNnlty, '36, was my room­mate—he and I had several happy 'sessions* with U. Johnny Jordan at the Officers Club while Johnny was awaiting reassignment orders." 
This begins to shape up like the column^ of old. It was swell hearing from you. Mitch—let us have more from you. And the rest of the *35ers—how about swinging Into line? 
One word about the Hochs—we drew our first son on Dec. 30. Hugh James joins Judith Ann ^-) and Claudia. Lee in a growing tribe. 
I Q9iL JOSEPH F. HANSFIEIiD, National 
• '^^ Broadcastinr Co., 30 Bockefrller Plaza, Kadlo City, New York, N. ¥. 
From Joe Mnnjifield: 
Mail from members of the class have been slow in coming to your reporter. However, Pat Tofori reports that he Is now employed as a paper salesman for a Massachusetts* concern. Despite the lack of supplies, business Is rolling along famously, Pat says. Pat is living with his family—ilrs. Tofurl and three daughters—at No. 23 Garfield Ave., Winchester. Mass. 
Pat tells us that Andy Scafati is doing a great job at Norwood. Mass. He sees Geor|^ Moriarty and Tom Kenneally a lot, and with sis or seven other fellows Is trying to revive the N.D. Club of Boston. Pat would like to get the addresses of Shelby Monere and Dan Sher­ood. He would like to write them. 
John Moian is still in Dallas, Tex., but is planning to return to New York to take a Job. John was active in the publicity carapaign of the new Texas governor. Bud Goldman, who had been working with a Dallas firm, is now 

I I with a department store in Newark. N. J. 
Andy Hofhacel is doing a great job with the Veterans* Administration in New Tork. Jim Reilly Is with the R.F.C. and is very active in 
K. C. circles. At a N.D. club meeting the other night we saw Ed Neaher and Bill Walsh. 
Joe Porter, father Ed Hammer and I had lunch before the holidays. Father Ed is curate at an uptown parish, and Joe Is building quite a reputation as a salesman for the American Broadcasting Company. Joe tells us that his brother-in-law, Tom Fennelly, and Tom Keen­an have gone into the photo engraving business, together. 
Jerry Gillespie, of the class of '37, is associ­ated with John Balfe and Is selling insurance and dispensing sound advice as regards that field at a great rate. Jerry and Sheila became the proud parents of a second daughter in No­vember. Incidentally, on Nov. 27 the Mansfields were blessed with a second son, Edward Rich-and, bringing our family to two girls and two boys. 
Siff Sluszka, faculty advisor for the high school paper at Floral park, N. T., and in­structor in journalism, was recently elected to serve as a director of the Empire State School Press Association. The directors will meet dur­ing the Easter season to plan the November school press conference at Syracuse University. 
Fkank Ganl has been signed as freshman coach by John Carroll University. Cleveland. 
Joe SnUiTan has moved with United Air I^ines from Detroit to Willow Run Airport near Yp­silanti. Mich. 
Father Jim Comeaa, O.P., ordained last Jtme, Is still in study at the Dominican House of Studies, River Forest, Hi. Father Jim lists some of the Notre Dame men preparing there for the priesthood. They are: FrmalL Camoimg' ham, *39, who will be ordained this June; Win­ston Ashley, Ph.D. '41; Ed B^ler, ex. '4S; John Reardon, ex. '44, brother of Tom, '36 and Scott, '3S. 
109 7 FBANK J. REnXY, SlacNmir-Dor­
• '^ ' land Co., 254 W. 31st St., New ToA 
lO-YEAR REUNION 
MAY 3iUI, lOME 1 

From Frank Reilly: Just got word that the real reason the Army-Notre Dame series has been terminated Is the excessive amount of paper required to print the class of '37 news In the "Alumnus" that ap­pears following the game. Seriously, though, we'll miss the game as a source of news and as a source of entertainment. It served to bring out a great many fellows who aren't seen often enough. 
Football movies were being shown when 1 arrived at the January meeting of the New York Club, and in the darkness I stumbled Into the first seat I spotted. When the lights came on who turned round to greet me but Julius I« Nnrdone of Brooklyn and famed as the lad who had all-night lights in Morrissey Hall? Julius seemed none the worse for the night life and a four-year hitch in the Army that wound up eight months ago. He is: 1.) unmarried; 2.) a lawyer, and 3.) unemployed. (See what happens to you when the Republicans begin to take over?) After finishing up at N.D., Julius went to Georgetown law school and wound up 12th in his class. Not long thereafter his nnm' ber came up in the draft and Julius, despite as­surances to tlie contrary, wound up in uniform. That was bad enough, so, to even matters up a little he was sent to Newfoundland where he spent most of the remainder of his time in service as a chief clerk. Julius* principal occU' pation at the moment is the collection of first editions. 
His classmate and brother. BUI, is a doctor and is attached to St. Joseph's Hospital in Far Rockaway, N. Y. Bill, like Julius, is unmarried and a war veteran. I don't know if many of you know this, but Bill had quite a narrow escape in the war. On the last of his many bombing missions over Europe from an Eng­lish air base, the plane in which he was the bombardier was hit on the way to a raid on Emden. Germany. Completing its bombing run, the plane, which was severely crippled by the hit, headed away from the target city. About 30 miles west of Emden It was found neces­sa.ry to abandon the ship and Bill bailed out at 30.000 feet. In order to avoid freezing to death, of course, he dropped a long way before opening his 'chute. Luckily he was only slight­ly Injured when he landed and was taken prisoner. For the next two years he remained in a German prison camp. 
Flashing back for a moment, — I forgot to mention that Julius told me that EmU J. Peter of Ijouisviile and the class of '37, was a fellow student at Georgetown law school. He also mentioned that one of the few N.D. men he saw In Newfoundland was Botch Brono. An­other Nardonc brother, Theodore, is finishing his. war-interrupted studies at N.D. now. 
On leaving the New York club meeting Julius and I bumped Into Jack Balcer, second floor merchandise manager for Stem Brothers New York department store. Jack reports having become a father again, for the second time. I can't seem to recall his having given us the vital statistics. 
Another '37er on hand for the meeting was Ed Neaher. He. had ducked out apparently be­fore I had a chance to see him. 
After the meeting Julius and I had quite a bull session. Su(}h familiar names as lUck ^ley , (Father) Bob tiochner, Warren Shcehy, Jade nmxm, Xm <yDo—ell, George iMmt, JJacfr TiC­mtr, FeAe O—D«B and Jack Hartex* all '37, having; come up in the conversation. 
The Christmas mail brought cards from: IMher Victor J. BoiSTCvt, CSwC, '37, who is stationed at St. Joseph's Missions. Pearllngton, Miss.; Ruth and Kd Hi^t; Helen and Toai Hadics; IWber Ooaaa K^ly; Jack, Ann and Johnny Hariey; MaHc IfOacfgan and his wife; and Angelica and Bill Sharp, tei Sharp, inci­dentally, is out near St. Louis. He wrote this return address on the envelope: 5335 Blmwood Ave., Mission, Kans. 
Vince McC—lm, about whom Vany 0*BajWa letter to me in the December Issue of the "Alumnus" gave a few details, wrote more fully of his activities on Nov. 27. He says: "I received my master's degree from Bncknell University and immediately accepted a position as instructor of English at the University of Scranton. This was the best of a series of otTers. I wais a' bit reluctant to give up coacn­ing. Just before I entered the Army Air Forces. I developed the best football team In Dupont (Pa^) High School's gridiron history. I haven't as yet seen many of the fellows from '37, ex­cepting Tony Bt^le and Frands Egaa. The Scranton Notre Dame Club is planning a set-together early In December. I'm looking for­ward to some real N.D. reminiscing." Vlnce's home address Is 322 Main St., Dupont. Fa. 
From Father Toaa C?onran, C.S.C., of the class of 1937, I received a letter early in December. Father Tom is trying to do a Job among "the poorest of the poor" as B!shop C. E. Byrne ot Galveston describes the poor Mexican people in Father's parish, Georgetown, Texas. I toolc the liberty of writing to Father Tom on behalf of the class for further information so that we could know more about his work and help him if we are able. He writes: "Oiir parish covers, a large area—^nearly 3.000 square miles. An­other priest and myself say Mass at fivd^ differ­ent places. (In one town Mass is said in a Mexican public school.) "We have other mission places or stations, but as yet we have no regu­lar Masses In these places. . . ." 
About his parishioners Father writes: "They are black-eyed, brown-skinned Mexicans—oodles of them, and very, very poor- Over the years they have been exploited and discriminated against. In most instances they have been given little or no chance to better themselves. In my humble opinion one of our greatest needs is Catholi(r education and training. Until we have our own Catholic schools we will make no true progress. And if we don't get the children and train them in the Catholic faith, our work will avail very little. The Catholic school with zeal­ous Sisters is what we need most. But otur people are so poor that we must call on our friends to help us raise the necessary money to build a small school and convent. • • .** 
Father concludes by saying "In the Mexican mission work one must fiave infinite patience and a God-given sense of humor. As one old missionary priest once said, when asked how he was able to understand the Mexican people. He replied, 'You don't understand them, you just love them.' That is about the best expljma­tion I have heard. If you can interest some of the *37 boys on our behalf I shall be eternally grateful. . . . Father Tom Curran, C.S.C, '37." 
Father's address is St. Helen's Mission, Georgetown, Texas. Let's see If we can't give him a helping band. 
Tinee HartneCt has an article. "TurKey Faces the Slav Colossus." in the January. 1947, issue of "The Sign" magazine. It's a very informa­tive and timely article on Russo-Turklsh rela­tions with particular attention to the Darda­nelles. It is also-one more piece in a monntinc pile of evidence that Vince Is going places* In the . literary world. The "Sign's" "Personal Mention" column lists Vince as a "writer and lecturer on Balkan and Middle Eastern affairs . . . educated at Notre Dame. During the war he served as an oflicer in the highest levels of Naval Intelligence, including duty aa specialist in Balkan and Middle Eastern business—a back­ground which lends authority but not the facts, for his present article." 
TWher Bob Xach^fr, C.S.C., '37. whom I hadn't seen s!nce, that year was In New Toric 
The Notre Dcone Alumnus 

and attended the Club's Communion Breakfast, Dec. 8. Bob went from N.D. into the business world, stopping en route to learn shorthand and typinET- His first position was with the (•reyhound bus company. Later, he went to work for a rubber company near Cleveland (his home town) and from there went back to 
N.D. the seminarj- and the priesthood. He is now studying- for his Ph.D. at Holy Cross Col­lege, 4001 Harewood Road, N.E., 'Washington 
17. D. C. I*m sure he'd be delighted to hear from any of you. Bob looks very much the same, although he does have a pretty heavy schedule what with his sacerdotal duties and his studies. 
Bill DofAcy tells me that Commencement and the Alumni Reunion will be held Friday, Satur­day and Sunday, May 30, 31 and June 1. This being 1947 and ours, be'ng the class of 1937, by my mathematics we're out of school ID years (believe it or not), on the last week-end in May. As this w:ll be the first full-scale Com­mencement and Reunion since before the war, let's try to make it a howling success. Especial­ly since our five-year affair was held under the cloud of war. As a starter, — I think it might be a good idea if all of you fellows who are planning to attend Commencement and the Reunion will drop me a note or a postal card here at the office or at my home address: 1S51 Metropolitan Ave., New York 62, N. T. (Apt. 7P). This won't be construed as registering or anything like that; we'd just like to get some idea as to how many are planning to attend. 
Paul Ftrtey, erstwhile keeper of this section of the "Alumnus," is a copy writer for MacManus, John and Adams, advertising agency in Detroit. The boy himself left this news when he wheeled into the Alumni Office very briefly after one of the recent fall's home games. 
IQ9 0 HAROLD A. ini^LIAMS, 4333 Blar­
• '^ O ble Hall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
From Hal Williams: 
This month the lead-off spot goes to Robert Holtz (1025 Cedar St., Elkhart, Ind.) who writes: 
"It nas been quite a long time—almost two years to be exact—since I last dropped you a line. Itots of things have happened since then. 
"I was In the Army stationed at the Jeffer­sonville (Ind.) Q.M. Depot at the time, and I was still there last Jan. 21 when I was dis­charged. In December, 1945, I was promoted to captain. A nice Christmas present. 
"Since Feb. 1, I have been with the Martin Band Instrument Company as cost accountant. The work is interesting, particularly because I set up the system that is used. "When I was released from the Army the old story began: finding a house, etc. I was lucky. We found and bought a nice six-room bungalow^ at a reasonable price, then we were able to find furniture and all the necessarj- appliances. Within six months after placing our orders we had a refrigerator, Bendix laundry and an elec­tric stove. I intended getting over to the Com­mencement but I was tied down—painting the interior of our new home. 
"The big news about the Holtz family is that on Oct. 13, Bob, Jr., arrived. I won't say that he'll be a candidate for the Irish varsity In 1966. That will be up to him. But you know how red-headed Dutchmen are, and he has red hair which he gets from his mother. 
"At the Illinois game I saw Johnny O'Connor talking to John Ford. .. . A few days ago I saw Gccll Jordan, class of *41. He is with In­ternational Business Machines. About a year ago I ran into John Hontervede at the airport in Ifoulsville. At a high school basketball tour­nament last March I saw Harcellos Ball who at the time was still with Bendix in the Bend. 
"That's about all the news I have for the time beinp except that one of these days I'm going to drive over to South Bend to see the Good Thunder (Minn.) Flash. Swede Baner. Are you reading this, Swede?" 
Thanks, Bob, for another fine letter. Congrat­ulations on your" post war developments. . 
Then there is the note on the back of a Christmas card from Mrs. Jack Zcifcrt» written from Rua Eugenlo de Uma. 1377 Sao Paolo, Brazil. Jack, as you remember, is down in Bra­zil as representative for a large American firm. For the first two months they lived in a hotel but now have a cottage on a hill in Sao Paulo. Rents, Mrs. Zerbst reports, are astronomical, the living fine and the scenery beautiful. 
Other Christmas cards were received from Chariie and Betty Callahan (Apt. 6, Oliver Hotel). Father Victor J. Boisrert, C.8.C*» (St. Joseph's Missions, Pearli'ngton, Miss.), Winifred, John, Jay and Brian Boarke, Bad Sherwood and his wife. Cliarles, Ellen, Charlie and Bobby BruNOs, and Bd Bartnett. 
Brosius, his wife writes, is now with Catho­lic University in Washington. Their address Is 4262 16th St.. Arlington, Va, Bartnett says that his French fiancee, Marcelle Desne. arrived in the United States in December. "Bid says they plan to be married In January. He's still with the venerable N. Y. "Times." 
Then there was a line from Father Tun Car-ran, '38, who is with St. Helen's Mission In Georgetown, Texas, • and word from Jiat Aran­strong that Father Antbonj- M. Gomes has some ideas about the class reunion and the class participation fund. How about expressing your­self In print, Tony? 
I'm sorry there's not much to report, but I can't report anything If you fellows don't write letters. 
Father William B. Slahoney, O.P.» left last September for the Dominican College In Rome, Italy, for further study. 
From Swede Bauer: 
"I noticed in the Firestone paper that Ton Wnkovits won the Firestone's plant men Decathlon championship held there this fall. Tom Bohen and wife drove down from St. Paul, where Tom manages a department In a cloth­ing store, to see the Northwestern game. Be­lieve it or not. this was the first N.D. game Tom witnessed since leaving the campus zdne years ago. Saw Bod Sherwood and wife at the game. They drove down from Flint, where he accounts for Chevrolet." 
A letter from Johnny Cavalier says: "After two successful seasons In football at Allentown Central Catholic high school, I have moved closer home and for the past four years have been coaching at Greentown high school. X would like to hear from BUI Hofer, llaii^ Ton­nrili, Joe Nardone* £ d Ixmshi and others. My address Is Greentown high school. Greentown, O." 
ChncJc Terry, father of four boys, is the new manager of the Boss Manufacturing Co. plant (work gloves) in Findlay, O. He was assistant manager of the same plant for several years. 
lO^ O V^<^^^^^ BeCOUBSEY, 1917 Elinu 
• ' ^ ' beth, Kansas dly S, Kaas. 
EnB. George A. Woli Jr« ex. '391. HoUidoysburg, POM was killed in action aboard the U^^. Arixona in Peorl Harbor on Dec. 7. 194L ac­cording to information which recent­ly reached the Alumni Office. The ALUMNUS some time ago noted George's deoth but at the time was without information on to the place of his deoth. 
Recent reports, but not from the lad himself, have BolUe 0*%ee as assistant personnel direc­tor of the Southern California Bell Telephone Company. Los Angeles. 
Faol Itally Is manager of the Educatore As­sociation, commercial distributors of The Vol­ume Zjibrary, in Washington, D. C 
Bill Hofer is now residing In Ijoa Angeles with his wife and two children. He was dis­charged from the Great X*akes naval hospital 
nine weeks ago. After confinement for more 
than a year following wounds received In ac­
tion on Okinawa In May, 1945. Bill was a lieu­tenant in the Marine Corps and was leading his outfit in an advance on a Jap position when he stood up to get a better view of the situation. As he did so, a Jap sniper let him have It. The bullet entered Bill's throat and came out at his left shoulder. Prompt medical attention saved his life. Bill reports that he Is as good as new. 
I QAik BOBERT G. SAJ^FOBD, 4318 N. 17th 
• '^ W St., MUwaokce 9, Wis. 
£B|rene Zinn, Ironwood. Mich., attorney, was the ^.ttomey for a special Ironwood charter commission which prepared a new charter on March 3, 1947. Govenior Harry F. Kelly, '17, {retired as of Dec. 31) signed the charter as one of his last ofl^clal acts before New Tear's Day. 
Alex Raincri lives at Hurley, Wis. He is a member of the Wisconsin legislature and spends a great deal of his time at Madison. He Is a lawyer, like his brother, Joe, '31. From Bob Sanford: 
We have finally returned to these pages. The last time I forwarded anything I was a single man. but now my wife and I shall take over and I feel certain she will assist me in making our news the outstanding column in this section of the 'Alumnus." Of course, we need your help and I must admit that I am expecting numer­ous notes and letters after the February issue reaches you fellows. 
This is tlie first contribution made by your eager news hound in many years. I am not jok­ing when I call myself a "news hound," be­cause' I intend to hound all of you for plenty of news about yourselves and others with whom you have come In contact. Without a doubt I have been the worst offender of all in neglect­ing to write, but now I feel that everyone of us should do better, starting this very mo­ment. My present address Is 421S N. 17th St., Milwaukee 9, Wis., and it certainly will be a pleasure to hear from everyone of you and to get your letters Into this column. 
Many months ago I received a letter from Bill WHare and since then have exchanged letters so I shall give you the news from both of Bill's letters. Here is the news: — "After a long silence here is a bit of a report concern­ing yours truly plus what news I've been able to dig up about a few others. I managed to be­come a civilian last month [Shorty explains this means July] after no brief "career" in the Army and on Sept. 9, 1946, I assumed the du­ties as an instructor in Bconomlcs at St. Am­borse College. Davenport, la. Joe XAvexT* is now ^ in the iron business (Modem Iron Works) at Qulncy. IIL; while Louis Meconi maintains law offices In upstate New York. Au Sable Forks and elsewhere; Hany Keefe Is building houses In Massachusetts." 
In his second letter Bill gives more of a brief biography as I requested. He explains: "Edna (nee Wilson of the Irish line) and I are living in a room ever hoping for an apart­ment here in Davenport! A million others are in the same boat, I guess. 
"I managed to get my M.A. from Boston University In 1941, and In September of that year I returned to N.D. as a graduate assistant In politics and commenced work on the Ph-D. With the war I found myself in the Navy late In *43, but was discharged after a couple of months due to physical deficiencies which I'm still trying to find. At any rate I was in the Army In no time as a Pvt. and enjoyed the life quite a bit for two years when, as a cor­poral, I decided to take my chances at OCS and managed to get the gold bars In July of *44 — three days later I was married! It was not long thereafter that I found myself on a ^^ ^ ship bound for Bombay — a fellow passenger ^B ^ was Chris Ftaoacan of New York! I spent the next 20 months covering India, and arrived in the U.S.A. during June. After a two months vacation — and I do mean vacation! I landed a Job as an instructor In Economics here (St. Ambrose College) — frankly I do enjoy It, **Em:io Arboit, '38. is the head coach here, 
^ assisted by Fat Hcf^arty, '38. Feto Arbeit, ex. '40, Is finishing up his degree work after a lengthy period in the service. Fred Flynn, Ph.D. '42, Is an assistant professor in philosophy. So no matter whore one roams he will discover a few of the Irish." 
Bill waited a rather long time before his letters were passed on to you, but this is the beginning of a new era and there will be no more delays. I certainly appreciated those let­ters, Bill, and I am now looking for more news from Iowa. 
Received a wed.'iiig announcement concern­ing John Gavan^ *40, and at this date the cere­mony is over. John married Georgii Ann Bet­tinghaus on Der. 28 in Wllmotte. 111. Congratu­lations John! Be sure to show Georgia Ann what excellent husbands Notre Dame men really are. We expect to hear from you soon. Johnny, you were always a good correspondent in the past. 
The remaining news was gathered by your man. Shorty. Bud linnehon called me last week to let me know he would ho settling in Mil­waukee. He was transferred from Gary to Milwaukee and is now looking for a home In 
-^ this rather crowded city. Bud mentioned that 
13 he spent an evening with Jim Karr here in town. I will have more news on these two next month. Neal Gleoson, my old roommate, is mar­ried to the former Patricia Kelly of Liberty-ville. 111., and, after spending a few years in the desert near the Persian Gulf, he is In the process of completing his law course at Mar­quette University. He will end his student days In February. 
one week-end Johnny Webster stopped In to visit Neal when flying a plane from Florida to some place between here and the east coast. The Gleasons and the Sanfords manoged to get to Notre Dame for the Southern Cal. game this fall, but didn't sre many people we knew. We did run into Tom Duffy, but he didn't give us any news about himself. Saw Kay Allen, wno was looking for John Broivnins:. who in turn was looking for a table for supper, but soon Neal and I wore lo iking for both of them and couldn't find them. 
We also attended a dinn-^r (on Friray, of course) given by the Notre Dame Club of Mil­waukee at which Father John Murphy, C.S.C, was the guest of honor. Saw Dan Ho^hek, who was married while in the service and is now working for Dun and Bradstreet in Milwaukee. Bill Schaller was also there; he is attending 
-•, Marquette Law School and keeping his golf 
Fi* right around par or under. Jim Casper from Milwaukee, got out of the Army th"s summer and has settled down in town. One of my friends just out of the service mentlonetl that he had seen Dr. Bob Fr««t somewhere In the Medical Corps, I believe It was Puerto Rico, but we shall have to wait till next month when we hear from Bob to make certain. 
Tour writing mnn, one Shorty Sanford, has settled down in the public accounting business once again and Is right in the middle of the busy season at present. After an enforced va­cation of four years I am back with Fontelne. McCurdy & Co., a local firm of certified public accountants, ard working toward my own 
C.P.A. certificate. Last summer while up In Antigo. Wis., I ran Into Floyd Sul ivan, who was selling summer resorts In the lakes region. He now has a real estate office here In Mil­waukee. 
These few notes must close the column for this edition, but I am relying on everyone of you to help me out next month. Remember, "Men of Forty, the news goes to Shorty." 
 W. PATTERSON, JR., 5530 

1941 JOHN 
Darlington Rd., Pittsbursh, Fa. 

From John Patterson: 
I don't know whether it's a post-holiday lull jfc or-a shortage of typewriters, but there isn't IP going to be much news in this column. 
Through the malls 1 received only two short announcements — but important! First of all, Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Dowd proudly an­nounce the birth on Jan. 6, of daughter Bar­bara Jean. The newcomer weighed 7 pounds, 13 ounces. And out of Lima. O., comes word from Robert £ . SolUvan that he has opened up an office "for the general practice of law." 
The rest of this short squib is provided through the ever-present news sense of TMB Powers, co-worker at the "Press," who spent a week In New York over the holidays. Tom got together witli AI Ferrine and Jim Cawlcy at the Commodore. Al Is now a non-technical in* stuctor at CCNT—this takes care of his eve­nings. He is also handling public relations for the school. Jim Is managing editor of "House Furnishing Review," a Haire publication. He became a father shortly before Christmas, now has two children. 
Tom spent New Tenr*s Eve at Trmnk I*­velle's home on Far Rockaway. Tom's date— Frank's very cute secretary*. 
Rev. Cnthbert Mahler was ordained Dec. 21. 1946, as a monk of Conception Abbey In Mis* souri. 
Tom Connor Is a planning clerk for the Cat­erpillar Tractor Company, Peoria, III. 
Bob Sweeney and Dicic Ball arc associated with Albert McGann Securities Co., South Bend, as registered representatives, along with Dan Knlcxynski, '36, and CliarUe Bfacncr* '40. All four were in service during the war. Didc also teaches at Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter J, Cronin have an­nounced the adoption of Patrick Joseph Cronin two nights before Cliristmas. • 
I QA^ WILLIAM E. SCANLON, Rm. 833, 11 
• ''• ^ s. La Salle St., Chicaco 3, 111. 
5-yEAR REUNION 
MAY 30-31. lUNE 1 

From Scoop Scanlan: Limber up your arm. folks—it's time to get a postcard and write. Tlie reason: Are you coming to tlie Five-Tear Reunion of tlie class or '42 next May 30-31, June 1? New Tear's Resolutions are in order—let us know if you hope to be there. The place, as you might imagine. Is the No­tre Dame campus. Jot a note in your record books now and get off that postcard without delay. Send to: Scoop Scanlan, 51S Second St., Bar­aboo. Wis. From . Hartford. Conn., and radio station WTIC comes this news-p.icked missal from Slosh Richards. .And he has the "Five-Tear Fever." 
"It sure was great to see so many of the fel­lows at the Penn after the (Army) game. Such characters as Tom Powers and his brother Jolin made for a lot of reminiscing conversa­tion. Also got to see SnulTy Kelly, who is do­ing a bit of radio writing in the B!g Town. Jack AVhite was at the same table. He. too, is in radio arid can be heard from time to time on some of your favorite programs tliat origin­ate in N. T. 
"I was hoping to meet Joe FltxplUrick there but it didn't pan out. 1 still don't know wheth­er he made the game or not. OWe 0'Bifc« said lie hadn't seen him and I got the same answer from Kay Ebli, who was around looking at the amateurs from a professional eye. He said that Steve Jnxwik was in town .but I didn't spot him. I also hart my eye out for JIai O'lAughlin, but no luck once again. 
"We had a Christmas dance at the Hartford club last Saturday, and I met Dure Basley a couple of days before, so we all went to­gether. He's now going to Law School at C. TJ. As he couldn't beat the crowded conditions at 
N. D., I'm glad to report that his loyalty to 
N. D. is unhampered in Washington. 
"Z haven't heard mnch aboat cor Fifth Re­union which shonld be coming up In llax. Has anybody any thonghta on the subject? My ez­roomle, I«e Bavfejr and ICrs. B, are tentatively golnff to Join lira. R. and myaelf for the'aflalr. rm tiylns to ring ^ae Kts in on It too. Lefs have a little talk about it." 
If you want to read about '42ers, Joat abont the best place to look Is the sports pages. Here's a quick roundup: 
Stere ^aswik was named halfback on the Second All-America Conference all-star team. Steve's with Buffalo, you know. . . • Harry Sheer of the Chicago "Daily News" reports, that Beb Maiilirlr, Chicago Cardinals (uard and fluent linguist (Spanish), Is aiming at an export-import post In South America. . . . George (0—,cWpi) Sofcek established a new National Pro Basketball league season scoring record on Jan. 5 when he dumped in 28 points to pace the Toledo Jeeps to a win over Fort Wayne Zollners. . . . The next time out, George connected for "only" 27 points. . . . From De­troit comes the announcement that Jofeaay He-Hale, first Backer of Buffalo of the International league, has become engaged to Miss Patricia Cameron of Detroit. . . . She happens to be the niece of Walter O. Briggs. owner of the Detroit Tigers. No date' has been set for the wedding.. Congrats, John. 
Joe Fetrits, publicity chief of the All-America Football Conference, wrote the other day that one of his recent visitors was John Kellcy, of the '42-Kelleys. He also said Jack ToHn was recently married. No details. 
From Stortevant, Wis., came a Christmas greeting and note from Jina (Bed) and Mrs. Biee, plus Tommle. Red said: 
"I hit the States the last of August. Just In time to hurry home and get a Job In Racine, Wis., at Washington Junior High School. The lad and Ruth are both fine. Tou should see the legs on the little guy—reminds me of "Heeky" Bereolos." 
From Dallas, Tex., came another greeting, from Chariie Ijohr, A quick hello and best wishes tD' all. 
.Geoige OTil, ex-Navy, came up with a com­munique ' out of New Washington, O., In De­cember, saying: 
"I've completed my first semester at Ohie State. I got back to Indianapolis In November and saw Jisa Spyehabki and Ed Sallina, both '41 chem. engineers. Ed has a son, about two Tar and Chemical. Ed has a son, about two years old. Charlie- Greene, who has been with Reilly about five years, is back at N. D. In Grad. School. Bob Geiger, another of New Washington's famous citizens who called N. O. home. Is now engaged. Tep, most of the old standbys are slipping. 
The Chicago bloc of Notre Damera la In­creasing r. pidly. Have had lunch recently with Red lABOtgan, who is currently taking bows as the new secretary and gen. mgr. of the (Hli­cago Notre Dame club, Dave Condoa, crack prep school editor of the "Tribune," BUI Xhy. currently hailed as "Mr. Bear" following -hi» exceptionally well-written articles on the Chi­cago Bears, also for the "Tribune." imA DiBgca checked In via a Christmas greeting from Hinsdale, III., to say the "Doings," a weekly newspaper, is still moving In top order. 
Tours truly, the Scooper, has been a part of the public relations staff of Jim Keans, •J4. A recent visitor was Prof. Tom Stritck, cur­rent head of the N. D. Department of Journal­ism. And we get a lot of work with Kay BCeytr In handling sports publicity at DePauL Bay Doaaraa has been up for some of the basket­ball get-togethers. And one weekend we got down—^Meyer and I—to see N. D. stop North­western In football. 
This is all for now, but let's get some Ideas percolating regarding the Five-Tear Reunion. Remember. IF It's news. Write Scoop. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

From Hrs. Lashbrook: The big news of the montli is a surprise visit from Jim McGoldrick, presently on an as­signment for the "War Department. Bill Hooney has announced the opening of an office in Waverly, la., for the general practice of law. He hopes to do tax practice. Al Cholis is turning in an excellent job as OPA rent control attorney in South Bend. Along with the work for OPA, he is doing a nice general practice. Leo Unck has announced the opening of a general practice in !lIuskegon, Mich. Leo has been associated with a judge in Jlichigan. Urn Maher is to be the next bridegroom of the class, the nuptials having been announced for the spring. Tim is practicing in Pittsburgh. 
Merv Bagwi is opening an office for general practice in Mason City, la, Xo details have been furnished. Warren Deahl is doing a good general practice in South Bend. 
Bill Spangler and his wife arc the parents of a baby giri born in December. Bill is still prac­ticing law in Garj-, Ind. Announcements were received here of the association of A'ail Pischke 
•with
 Iiittell and Funkhouser in "Washington. 

D.
 C, where he will specialize in radio law. 


Gordon Bethnne is an accountant in the of­fice of the Oliver Iron Mining Co., Ironwood, Mich., a subsidiary of U. S. Steel. Bill Cotter, Jr., is in public relations with the same com­pany at Duluth. Minn. 
Bob Kefaoe is a Boy's Court representative for the Archdiocesan Holy Name Society in Chi­cago. 
Jjeo Barby is a sales engineer with "W. S. Tyler Co., Cleveland. 
• TH * Ave., Betroit, Mich. 
Bob Heninxrton started to work for the Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Mich., on Dec. 17, as a time study engineer. 
Frank Shortsleere is teaching in the Metal­lurgy Department at Notre Dame. Jay Gibson is working for the Standard Oil Co., South Bend, in sales promotion. George Barrett is attending the law school at the University of Louis\-ilIe. 
Tou read in the December issue a brief note about Ettnl Malloy's death, and you'll read more about it in this issue, under "Deaths." But members of the class of '43 will particularly appreciate the following quotation from a let­ter written by Bob Siegfried, '37, of Tulsa: ^ . "Paul graduated in the class of 193S from Cascia Hall here in Tulsa, and in that class, one of his classmates was a boy by the name -of George Forner. They left the exercises and had not seen each other since then. Paul went on to Notre Dame and George left to study for the priesthood. After he was ordained he was assigned to a mission in northeastern Oklahoma. This was something around a year ago. The area that he served was very sparsely popu­lated, and the going was pretty rough. He would occasionally come into Tulsa to ask help from the Catholics of Tulsa to keep his mission 
•going.
 One of his jaunts was last Saturday. He happened to be in the vicinity of a certain in­tersection when an accident occurred. He ran 

•down
 to the scene of the accident to find out if anyone was injured. The occupant of the car pinned up against a tree was Paul, whom he Tiad not seen for several j-ears. He, of course recognized him, and gave him conditional ab­

•solutlon.
 and went in the ambulance with him to the hospital and gave him. Extreme Unction. Paul was pobsibly dead at the time Father Forner arri%'ed, but I am sure that as I said "before .Our Lady was near him." 


From Bd Boney: Writing the latest column in November, for December publication, I forgot to wish you all 
a. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Tear, 
so please accept these delayed wishes^ The Southern California game was practically 
a bust as far as *43 goes. A few of the class were there but most of them had hit the North­western game two weeks before. Those present were Marie Pfaller, Bon HHtzel, J. J. Bcdccr, Walt Jones, from New York, Bill Bos, head football manager. Bill Welsh, Benny Sdireck, Pete Moiitz, L«e Baymond, IVank Kaiser, Harry O'Mealia, Al MaenclL, Frank Confofti, Corny Johnson, Bill McCanirbey, Drs. liOols LaJoie and Bob Nenno, Art Kartbciser, Clair Lambert, 3Iike Kiely, Cy Singer, Dr. IVank Kellj-, from K.C.. I<oa Spasrnnlo, Bob Baaf and yours truly. 
Some of us got together for a drink, but most didn't. Here's the news picked up: Bob Sweener brags of a new little girl, while there's a fel­low called Donald at the Moe Herbert home— Bob Ponath is finishing Commerce—Dr. I^ank Kelly Is at Barnes Hospital in K.C.—^E^rank Conforti is alive and healthy—Tom Sweeney married Marge Kelly from St. Mary's some time back, works as a chemist at E. I. Lilly in In­dianapolis and now shows pictures of a son and heir—Don Potter now owns a metallurgical en­gineering firm in Chi.—George Kelly married Walt Jones' sister, Barbara, and is working at national headquarters of the American Leg­ion in Washington, writing speeches — Jack Irealiy and Lou Spa«nnaolo in school in Chi.— Clair Lambert talks of a wife, son and his job in Illinois—^Mike Kiely back at N.D. for politi­cal science. 
Those last notes from the Pittsburgh game contain this news: Gus Zaehlke is ex-Navy and working for his dad in Applcton, Wis—John Kelly married and has a daughter—^Al Oliver was down with his wife and is now in the wliolesale radio biz in Chi. as Pilgrim Distrub­uting Co. — BUI McCanshey heads his own woodpiling biz in Chi.—^Lon Kurtz, manager of Kurtz Sporting Goods in Des Moines. 
Rejcrie Fl>-nn and his date, Don He!tzel, Leo and Mrs. Keating, Bob Borers and two dates, two friends of mine from Detroit and I sat at a table at the HofCmann after the game. Joe Hillebrand and Don Scliindler were at another table, while Walt Jones, Herb Helton and Art McBride made up another celebrating party. The Hoffmann has become a tradition down there after ganies. 
To say this column's going backward is put­ting it. mildly — there's but one letter this month. Dud Smith's letter arrived a couple of days alter the last column- went in and had this to say:— 
"Your column in the October issue of the "Alumnus' was tops. At last some word is com­ing through from our cronies of *43. Here's hoping I'll hear from some of the lads after this letter to you. 
"Things happened fast after I last saw you In one of Detroit's local gin mills — Bamon Aianjo and myself sold out our export business in New Vork. Believe he's (n another export company now. I returned to Minnesota to take the big step—married Dorothy Stuart Barnes of Minneapolis, July 17. Hans Helland gave support as an usher. Other Notre Dame men there were—Art Kiyes, class of '45, Gene and Fanl Delay, '41, Ken McVevin, M2. and Gene O'Brien, *29. 
"The tionyemoon ended in California where we decided to settle—^bought a house in .La Canada—about three miles outside of Pasadena —one mile from the Rose Bowl. Have taken a job as sales manager with the Universal In­sulation Co.. Inc. Haven't seen any N.D. men out this way. However, I did meet Larry Kel­ly's brother, Jim, an S.C. man, and Joaepti Hickey, a couple of classes behind ws. I don't recall any others from our class in this terri­tory, but if there are I wish they'd drop me a card at 4612 Viro Road, La Canada. No phone —you know how "hat is— 
"I sure thought of all the lads and the times we had at the Notre pame-Army weekend. Did you malce ft'this year? [Read December issue— 
Ed.] . • -"• ''-'-.' ­
"By th€s.,.way, Wally Krawiec spent a couple of days--with ^us Just; before the big affair^— he's at Northwestern studying law. Would like to hear from some of Ihe hoys—especially Ja<dc Yamorsky, Tom Coone^, Bamon Araajo, Wally Kraweic and Hans Helland. They got my * address now, so let's see what happens." 
Thanks, D.K. Seems there should be someone out your way. 
As for myself, since just before Christmas I've been making use of Mr. Caulkins et al. training and have a job as assistant statis­tician of Chrysler Corp. here in Detroit. 
A few Christmas cards arrived and my an­nual one from Bob Kogers had a note on it saying no news since the Army game except that his Twin Cities club was planning a big dance during the holidays. 
There are a couple of sad bits of news also. Panl 3Ialluy, hunter, boxer and storj'-tcller ex­traordinary, died as tlie result of an automo­bile accident in late November. Few members of the class were as well known as Paul, and It's tough when a fellow goes through a war only to lose his life later wlien he can enjoy some of the things he fought for. 
The other sad news concerns the passing away of BUI ^mdy's mother. Bill is now a reporter on the Washington "Post" and wrote the news to Ed Hickey, as did Paul's family. I'm sure all the class joins me in expressing i our sincerest condolences to botli families and ' they may be sure that we'll all remember their lost ones In our prayers. 
Tliat about ends the actual news. I'd like to remind you all to look up the results of the 1946 Alumni Fund. '43 should be some­where near the top. And then how about dropping the column a line? Next month there'll be nothing but letters, so take .an hour off and let the class know all the news you have. Remember, even if you haven't seen another '43 man since graduation, that fact and what you've done and are doing now is news. So let's have some letters. 
The news flashes arrived just as I'm finish­ing this. A card from Bl^r and Jean announces the birth of Joan McGowan, Jan. 7 in Muske­gon, Mich. Welcome, Joan, from the class of '43! 
And the Detroit "Times" tells us that Johnny McHale will marry Miss Patricia Cameron at N.D., Feb. 15 and following that they'll honey­moon in Lakeland, Fla., where Johnny will join the other Tigers in spring training. He gradu­ates in late January-. 
An advance notice from the Alumni Office tells us that '43 was unlucky and didn't place Don Heltzd on the Alumni Board. But we'll do better next time. We could have used a good man like Don on the board. 
1 

10dd ^^^^ ^' I'^'^'CH, 4S3 W. 130th St.. 
I TH H 4pt^ gg^ jfe^ York City 27. 
From John Lj'nch: 
The class of '44 has let me down, so this month we will have to do without a contribu­tion from the secretary. 
Maybe it was the Christmas holiday, but the lads forgot to write, and I have nothing but a few Christmas cards from the regulars to show for the two-month period. 
To try to remedy this situation I'm going to send out post cards yon and beyond, and maybe rouse up the spirit that put the class over the top last year. 
Editor's note: It should be obsen-ed that the distinguished Mr. Lynch is now a resident of New York City, where his various talents are employed in the furtherance of "Toplitzsky of Notre Dame," a current musical show. 
Dan Snllli'an is working as an experimental engineer for the National Twist Drill and Tool Co.- He would like to hear from Leo Lar^. 
Ed Peerimkier has been awarded a store-' service scholarship at New York University School of detailing and is pursuing graduate work in retailing methods. Ed is one of 69 stu­dents selected for training as retail store, ex­ecutives. He is working, toward the degree of Master of Science in Retailing. 
JS* ITH 9 BeiMrtment, General JBIectric Co., Schenectady 5, N. ¥. 
From Jim Schaeffer: Here goes the initial venture as '45 class secretary-. Quite a few letters in the mailbox In response to a letter I sent out to about 10 per cent of the class. Keep those letters coming in, men! From the looks of things, almost everybody got down to Xew York for the Army game ex­cept me. I bucked the tide and went the other way to Chicago on my vacation. Had a talk with Pat O'Brien, *44, in one of the local bistros out there. Both a Christmas card and a letter from Jim Cljoie!*, wlio*s now a second semester junior in the law school at Cornell in his home town of Ithaca. "There are several N.D. boys in school with me but, believe me, Cornell is nothing like N.D. (I actually wish 1 was back at N.D.)." Jim writes. 'Tm a member of the Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity. Pat Grogmn, '43, is in it too. "Went to the Army game and saw several of the old gang. Jack Allen, Ralph Hayman, Pat Nolan, Tony Bristol, Uany Walters, Jim Bon­rt| nelley, etc. "Head" Unehan gets over here ^ once in a while to a ball game and I have visited him in Oswego where he is the di­rector of the K. of C." 
Christmas cards also from Mike Garry, who reports he's "been trying to make a dent in the grain business, but progress is slow," and from Bill Dunn, who lived across the hall back in the old Breen-Phillips days. Bill's a junior in the University of Illinois medical school in Chi­cago. I missed Bill and a chance to get to­gether with him in Chicago by a day—he had just left for New York and the Army game. 
Chuck Sartore writes he was down in Nev-­Orleans for the Tulane game, and was out at 
N.D. last June on vacation and was surprised to see all the cars on campus. Chuck's working as a student engineer with Firestone down in ilemphis. He reports that Vince Cushinsr is now a father, and is living out in California where he's working on his doctorate while teaching matli at the University of California. 
From Ault. Colo., Art Andersen says, "At present, and I believe for a long time In the future, I am going to be a good old 'down to earth' farmer. Yes, I like engineering but like the farm more. I was In Denver a week ago and while there I did meet up with one of our 
- class. Chuck Lngton, an architect. He is work-
r } ing for an architect In Denver and intends to go back next fall for his degree and in the meantime is getting some practical experience." Art was back on the campus for the So. Cal. game. 
Tom Bersin was down in New York for the Army game and saw most of the old gang at that time. Back at N.D. last spring for gradu­ate work, he's now an assistant professor in the Department of Business Administration at St. Michael's College, AVinooski Park, Vt. 
One of the fellows who's back at N.D. again, Kay Gudmens, writes that he's graduating in January and his address after that will be 3521 Zumstein Ave., Cincinnati S, O. "I have been back since last November and will gradu­ate in January If all goes well. Now I am won­dering if I w*ill be in the class of '45 or '47. There arc a lot of the old boys back as you probably know—Bob Maclemale, E, J. 0*NeD, Zilly, Bob liiTingstone, Jobn Punlavey, J=lis Csemries, Joe Pillon, Sam Atwater, Jack Priboda, Bob Hitf^mann, Buck Madden, John Cronin, Andy Rohan, Bock Dee, Jim Kelley, Marty Morphy, Chuck Hontree, Ben Geo^gre, : and a host of others. The place is just about I the same although I think it.will bo better 'r. when they get back to the old hall system. Now I they have a mixture of all classes in the halls." ' Ted Ryan writes from Olympia, "Wash., 
WK "First of all, am not married, looking for the 
V right girl, however; have been very lucky in­sofar as a job goes as I am one of the assistant attorney-generals In the state-attorney's office. I hear from Ed Kavanaujch, Jim Kane, and Bob Oberfell right along. Understand Bob has a nice position with a New York law firm. Also would appreciate the addresses of Chndc mdE­hardt, 3Iike Milloy, Herb Coleman and B«b Londencftn­
"We did have a big Notre Dame meetins; be­fore the Army game up in Seattle. I regret to' say I missed it- Do plan on attending future meetings, though. Tell all my ex-drinking^ bud­dies at Notre Dame to drop me a line—the address Is 319 Elks Club. Olympia, "Wash. 
The last letter in the mailbox this month is from - Jim Donovan, from Bayonne. N. X, where he's back at his alma mater. Holy Fam.­ily Academy high school, as a teacher. Jim writes that "Danny CnUlnone, '42, is a teacher in the public school s>*stem. in Bayonne; Mike Malion, *43, is working for his master's degree at Columbia; Tarry Gilhooley, '43, is a sterling silver salesman. Larry is married and has one child; and Vince Commisa, '43, played guard for the championship Jersey City Giants foot­ball team." 
Tried for two weeks to get hold of Dave Condon in Chicago. Kvery time I called him be was out and every time he called me I was out. Dave, of course, is banging out the old by-lines for the "Chi. Tribune." 
That's all for this month. Hope to see some of the '45 gang down In New York Feb. 24 for the N.Y.U. game. Have tickets on order. 
Recently seen enjoying the holiday atmos­phere at the Notre Dame Club of Toledo Christmas dance were Jim Schweickert and his attractive wife. 
Jim Walsh is working for Home Insulation Company, South Bend. 
Bob McBntle, a January graduate at Notre Dame, has reported to Mt. Carmel high school, Chicago, where he has taken over as head foot­ball coach. Bob's contract is for two years and he will choose his own assistants. He also will teach history in the high school. He succeeds AVally Fromliart, '37, who Is now head coach at Loras College, Dubuque, la. 
A letter from John Brozo indicates that he is In the regular na\-y as an ensign. At present, he is stationed at the Ordnance Disposal Unit, Indian Head, Md. 
JA, Leslie Logran, Jr., here for two semesters in '45 and '4S, received his commission after being graduated from O.CS. at Ft. Benning, Ga. The young lieutenant reported to Ft. Bragg after a short leave at his home In Fort Wayne, Ind. 
SYRIAN-LEBANESE SOCIETy FORMED 
A society for Syrian-Lebanese stu­dents, one of only six of its kind in. the United States, has been organized at the University to promote a better under­standing and appreciation of Syrian-Lebanese culture among college students. 
The new club at Notre Dame has been given the title "II Ulb," which is Arabic for "The Heart." Members of the or­ganization are direct descendants of the Phoenicians. 
In addition to the Notre Dame club, similar organizations have been formed at Princeton, Boston College, California University, Texas University and Wes­tern Reserve College. The first national convention of the society will be held this summer, with the Palestine question as the chief topic for discussion. 
English is the language used for busi­ness meetings of the Notre Dame chap­ter but after formal session members have an informal • discussion at which time they speak the Arabic language. 
REGARDING VOCATIONS 
An explanation of what parents should do about the jxMsible priestly or relig­ions vocation of their sons and daughters is contained in the Parent's Edition of the "Vocational Digest" an eight-page folder published quarterly by the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. 
The Parents' Edition of the Digest, is directed primarily to Catholic parents and its purpose is "to deepen, if possi­bly the real joy and to lessen the quite understandable concern in the hearts of parents as they first hear a child of theirs speak of a vocation to the relig­ious life or the Priesthood." 
The illustrated folder, although pub­lished at Notre Dame, is concerned with the religious vocation in general and is not directly concerned with the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. It therefore represents a contribution to one of the most important causes engaging the at­tention of the Catholic Church today, that of encouraging vocations to the priesthood and rdigious life. 
Copies of the folder are avaOable by writing to the Bev. John H. Wilson, 
C. S. C; Director of Vocations, Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame, Ind, 
DETROIT NEWS: LATE 
The annual Detroit Communion breakfast on Dec. 8 under the chalrmaJiship of Ky Kaiser and with the help of John Breonaa, Cbariey Kaiser and Jim Solfivan was attended by one of the largest' crowds ever attending an affair of this kind in Detroit. Hither Charles Oncb­lin and his Shrine of the Little Flower gave the club Its usual excellent cooperation In the use of its facilities. IWher IVank Cmtvmmgh, C.S.C., dean of the College cf Arts and Letters, was celebrant of the Mass and principal speaker at the breakfast. 
The club's Christmas Dance, first held since the war. was a hyge social success, with two ballrooms of the. Book Cadillac crowded with Notre Dame men and. their friends. The credit Is due to John Anhafr and Jack Bne a and their fine committees. 
What was to be an extremely successful foot­ball trip to the Southern California game turned, on account of railroad tieup, into a touch-and-go affair, with the members driving-and chartering buses and planes—no one stayed home. J. J. Gonnaa, Jr., deserves a good pat on the back for his hard, work to make It a success. He had to take all the orders, notify others that there weren't enough tickets for everyone, spend Thanksgiving exchanging tick­ets for those who couldn't go without the train, and finally return the train money to five hun­dred people. 
Weekend of Feb. 21—The Annual Club Re­treat at Manresa retreat house under Axt CTmm~ ia*s and Joe Back's leadership. At this writing, 48 members have already announced their In­tentions of attending. ' f 
Feb. 24—^Business meeting for the purpose of adopting a new constitution for the club to con­form more with present needs and the ^program of the national Association. 
March 17—^A special type of get-together .t» "celebrate St. Patrick's day.' 
Universal.N.p. Night on April 14—^Aiheetine^ honoring past presidents and joining the world­-wide alumni'celebration of this Nfght: ' -^ -., 
. , Bd Kocer 

Directory of Qubs and Their Presidents^ 
Akron Grand Bapids Oregon 
Murray Powers, '23, Akron Beacon-Jour­noL 
Berrien County (Mich.) William Downey, '28, 60 N. St Joseph Ave., Niles, Mich. 
Boston 

Hugh F. Blunt, '24, 217 Home Banking Bldg., 106 Main St, Brockton 22, Mass. 
Bofiolo 

Dr. Robert J. Burns, '26, 418 Brisbane Bldg. Calumet District (Ind.) Fred J. Sohncm, Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Ind. (Secretary). CcDiton. O. Glen T. Dubs, '35, 929 12th St, N. W. Capitol District, (N.Y.) John F. Campbell, '26, 252 S. Main, Albany 
3, NY. 
Central Michigan Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '18, 828 N. Logan St, Lansing 6, Mich. Central New Jersey Michael J. Balog. '34. 316 Watson Ave.. Perth Amboy, N. J. Central New York Hawley E. Van Swall, '41, 109 Janet Drive, Syracuse, N. Y. Central Ohio John J. Cannon, '30, 555 E. Broad St, Co­lumbus, O. 
Chicago Thomas S. McCabe, '22, 11 S. LaSalle St Cinonnati 
J. Walter Nienober, '37, 2105 Alpine PL Cleveland Thomas C. Byrne, '37, 2030 Brown Rd. Connecticut Valley Vincent E. Turley, '32, 13 Annawan St, Hartford, Conn. 
Dallas Walter L. Fleming, '40, 4549 Belfort PL 
Dayton 
John C. Femeding, '40, 125 Wisteria Dr. 
Delaware 
Thomas E. DQlon, '37, 61 Landers Lane, Swanwyck, New Castle, Del. Denver Eugene S. Blish, '34, 1550 Oneida St Detroit George B. Morris, '39, 610 Blaine Ave. Des Moines Corleton D. Beh, '17, 1230 Des Moines Bldg. Dubuque, la. 
C. I. Krajewski, '16, 1775 S. Grondview Ave. 
Eostem Indiana 
Norbert W. Hart, '35, 200 E. Wysor St, Muncie, Ind. Eastern Pennsylvania Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, 3004 Turner St, Allen­town, PcL 
Erie 
James B. Dwyer, '37, 4006 State St 
Fort Wayne 
Paul Sagstetter, '25, 203 W. Sherwood Ter­race. Fox Hirer Valley (IIL) Dr. Philip C. Hemming, '29, 268 Common­wealtti, Elgin, 111. 
Don J. Levandoski, '36, 410 Federal Square Bldg., 2nd St, N. W. Hamilton, O. Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 708 Rentschler Bldg. 
Hanisbuig 
Robert J. Haiber, '35, 72 A HimmieL Le-Moyne, Pa. 
Hawaii 
William K, Honifin, '33, 1635 Clark St, Honolulu. 
Hiowathaland (Mich.-Wis.) 
Francis R. Langrill, '30, 1103 Cooney Blvd., Marinette, Wis. 
Houston 
R. Conroy Scoggins, '24, Humble Oil Rfg. Co., 430 Humble Bldg. 
IncUanapolis 
Patrick J. Fisher, '36, 616 Indiana Trust Bldg. 
Iron Honge (tCch.-Vns.) 
Theodore A. Nolan, '33, 302 Arch St, Iron­wood, Mich. 
Jackson. ICch. 
Lyman H. Hill, Jr., '29, 5205 U. S. 127 S. 
Kansas City 
Vincent W. DeCoursey, '39, 644 Northrup, Kansas City, Kans. Kentucky ~ Thomas E. BuUeit, '31, 213 Linden Ave., Louisville. 
Los Angeles 
Paul F. Glass, '40, 8418 Loyola Blvd. 
Maryland 
WilUam L. Jacobs, '36, 5244 Fourth St, Bal­timore 25. 
Memphis 
Frank W. Howland. '25. 673 E. Parkway, South Memphis. 
]yGcani 
William H. McCormick, '32, c/o Miami Mattress Co., 60 N. W. 13th St 
fClwaukee 
John E. Clauder, '34, 4809 N. Woodbum St 
AGnnesota 
William M. Guimont '35, 4925 Stevens Ave., Minneapolis. 
Mohawk Valley (N.Y.) 
Francis W. Donalty, '33, 23 Beverly PL, Utica, N. Y. 
Montana 
Edward F. Simonich, '39, 608% Travonia St, Butte. 
New Jersey 
Frank A. Milbauer, '25, 44 Bronford PL, Newark. 
New Orleans 
WUhom B. Dreux, '33, 2715 St Charles Ave. 
New York City 
Tiemey A. O'Rourke, '30, 76-12 SSth Ave., Jackson Hgts, N. Y. 
Northern Caliiotma WaUam T. Byrne, '29, 875 34th Ave., San 
Francisco. 
Northern Louisiana James R. Nowery, '29, P. O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94. 
Northern New Yoric 
Ralph M. Cardinal, Jr., '37, 70 Front St, Molone. 
Oklahoma 
Robert J. Sullivan, '31, 1384 E. 26th PL, Tulsa. 

Dr. Ralph M. Prag, '27, Selling Bldg., Portland. 
Peoria 

Alexander L. Sloan, '37, Alliance Life Bldg. 
Philadelphia 

Dr. Edward J. Lyons, '29, Spruce Medical Bldg., Spruce at 19th. 
Phoenix. Ariz. 

Regis J. Fallon, '24, 2200 W. Van Buren. 
Bhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts 

John L McLaughlin, '34, Mendon Rd., Cum­berland Hill, R. I. Bochester. N. Y. Joseph M. Geraghty, '28, 50 Quentin Rd. 
Bock Biver VaUey (lU.) 

Vincent F. Carney, '29, 303 S. Second St, Rochelle, IIL Saginaw Valley QiCch.) Thomas F. VanAorle, '21. Standard Oil Co., Saginaw. 
San Antonio 

Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stanford Dr. 
Sandusky. O. 

John J. Millott '27, 913 Osborne St. 
Si. Louis 

Albert J. Ravarino, '35, 5841 Devonshire Ave. 
Southwestern Connecticut 

John G. MoUoy, '29, 115 Ashley St., Bridge­port 
riiBn.O. 

Fred J. Wagner, '29, 84% S. Washington St 
Toledo 

Bernard English. '35, 4056 Walker Ave. 
Tri-Ciiies (III.-Iowa) 

Francis C. King, '19, State's Attorney, Court House, Rock Island, 111. (Secretary). 
Triple Cities (N.Y.) 

James H. Hogan, '34, 42 Oak St. Bing­hamton. 
Tri-Stote (Ind.-IU.-Ky.) 

Raymond E. Kersting, '27, R. R. 6, Evans­ville, Ind. 
>
Tucson. Aiis. 

Theodore W. Witz, '29, Box 628. 
Utah 

Phil J. PurceU. Jr., '35. 324 11th Ave., Salt Lake City. 
Wabash VoUey (Ind.) 

William R. Barr, '26, Box 21, Chahners. 
Woterbury. Conn. 

Joseph H. Robinson, '31, 96 Bayberry Dr., BristoL Conn. 
Washington; D. C 

George C. Howard, '38, 7017 Chelton Rd., Bethesda, Md. 
Westinrginia 

J. MaxweU Hill, '41, 927 Central Ave., Charleston 2, W. V a 
Western PennsylTonia 

H. Carl Link, '35, c/o Edward A. Havey Ins., Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Pitts­burgh. 
Western Washington | Caiarles F. Osbom, Jr., '38, Bogle, Bogle and Gates, 603 Central Bldg., Seattle. 
Youngstown 

Gciriel E. Moran, '32, 46 W. Indinaola Ave. 
THE ANNUAL REPORT 
V© ON 
4> 
s 
Q 
u 
o 
3 & 
Z 2 
H O 

Class Summary Jan. 1st. to Dec. 31st, 1946 
Class Amount No. Contr. No. In Class % Contr. To 1900 I 1,581.50 31 170 18.2 
1900-1905 1,682.50 42 141 30. 
1906-1909 29,713.50 57 144 39.6 
 5,430.00 14 37 38. 1911 : 1,391.25 31 75 41.3 1912 3,385.00 25 67 37.3 1913 410.00 23 50 46. 1914 11,199.00 25 100 25. 1915 3,311.50 33 82 40.2 1916 1,830.50 42 79 53.1 1917 _ 2,173.50 43 116 37. 1918 910.00 36 72 50. 1919 10,250.00 18 , 68 26.5 
 790.00 40 95 42.1 1921 1,583.92 56 " 119 47. 1922 1,955.00 80 181 44.2 1923 1,757.50 97 209 46.4 1924 1,670.76 91 180 50.5 1925 -.. 2,474.50 136 313 43.4 1926 3,922.10 120 269 44.6 1927 2,877.00 143 374 38.2 1928 .._ 2,547.55 153 433 35.3 1929 3,307.50 142 445 31.9 
 2,204.00 191 472 40.5 1931 2,813.50 200 489 40.9 1932 2,455.80 188 499 37.7 1933 3,167.42 206 510 40.4 1934 2,742.05 231 515 44.8 1935 1,919.01 191 482 39.4 1936 2,037.50 185 410 45.1 1937 2,338.60 214 449 47.6 1938 3,168.00 231 483 48. 1939 2,482.30 248 557 44.5 
 3,728.85 333 670 49.7 1941 32,323.00 348 618 56.3 1942 3,415.50 286 569 50.3 1943 3,740.50 330 535 61.7 1944 3,463.10 331 503 65.4 1945 1,578.00 179 343 52.2 1946 1,564.00 165 321 51.1 1947 474.50 43 1948 256.00 29 1949 81.00 7 
 35.00 3 1951 30.00 3 1952 5.00 1 Subscribers 5,111.10 81 
Total 177,287.81 5702 12,244 46.57 Over & Contra 299.00 
Net Classes (1946) 176,988.81 
A Supplement to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS — April, 1947 Vol. 25 No. 2 
3^ti6crsttM of ^ntrc ^mtte 
Jfotrc Panic, ^nMana 
C^Htcc 0f il|c President 
Dear Alumni: 

It is no problem to address to you a few conmients on the Alumni Fund. All can be summed up in four words—opportunity, need, generosity, appreciation. 
Always Notre Dame's opportunities have been great. They have been accelerated by the war program whifh called for the cooperation of all departments of the University. As ynu know, many important research projects were carried on in spite of the University's limited endowment. Now as we look to the future and see what may be accomplished, the dispropor­tion of endowment to the opportunities ahead seems more than ever before dramatized. Now in the turbulent post-war period, Notre Dame's special qualifications for training and sending out tme American leaders seem more than ever before important. 
The establishment of the Centenary Fund to augment our material resources at a crit­ical, as well as at an historic point in Notre Dame's life was a splendid manifestation of your generous understanding of the conditions favoring development. The participation of alumni in ever increasing numbers and amounts means a more and more significant 
Bev. John J. Cavanaugh future for the University and for Notre Dame President of the Univeisity men. 
It remains, then, for me to express the 
sincere appreciation of all at Notre Dame. The Fund has been a source of tremendous encouragement; it has been a source of benefit to many departments—^to the development of the library, to advanced faculty study, to faculty representation at meetings of learned societies, to the establishment of scholarships and fellowships, and in the other ways that its unrestricted nature has permitted. 
All gifts during this period—the restricted, the unrestricted, the alumni and the non-alumni—have added appreciably to the increase of Notre Dame's stature. Because these gifts have come at a time of special opportunity for Notre Dame, when the leader­ship we train is acutely needed, the whole value of the Alumni Fund is greatly enhanced. 
I thank you individually for what you have done, and for what the Fund will continue to do as Notre Dame presses on in the years ahead. 
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
at the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Cleveland, Ohio, March 17, 1947 Dear Alumni: 
On this St. Patrick's Day we present to you a harp of two strings. One sonnds — 
"from glen to glen" — a loud note of sincere thanks to you for making the 1946 Annual Alumni Fund the most successful ever, from the most important standpoint of all ^— percentage of participation. 
The harp's other string sig^nals the start of the Fifth Fund. Officially, the campaign extends through the calendar year of 1947, but as in the past, it will be appreciated if you will send your contribution now. 
The record proves that this reminder is all a Notre Dame man needs. Let us not be smug about it, but at the same time, let's leave for other alumni associations the more ingenious approaches. After all, we have a stronger bond of common interest. Woven of threads spiri­tual, sentimental and practical, this bond makes Notre Dame men everywhere famed 
— and envied — for their solidarity. Especial­ly treasured by the many who retain as close association with the University's life as the The Funding Fathers circumstances of their own lives permit, this Past Presidents Kelly and Byrne spirit calls for and deserves a practical ex­
pression in the form of a contribution every year. It is about the only way we can give definite help to those, living and dead, who have brought Notre Dame to the threshold of its era of greatest opportunity and responsibility. 
As we all know, Notre Dame's endowment — by comparison with other major uni­versities of the nation — is ridiculously small. We cannot hope to raise the capital sum of a substantial endowment, but we can supply the equivalent of a fair interest return on such.an invested sum. Increased participation will do it — without making any individual's share a burden. This is the whole secret of our Living Endowment Plan. It can be successful as all Notre Dame men, in their pride for the school, want it to be, only if we can increase our percentage of participation. 
We may never be able to achieve 100% participation, but coming as close as possi­ble is the nearest thing we have to a "campaign goal." Your help is needed — just • because you're 2/o?t and one of us! 
And for inspiration to do it now, I quote from a recent letter from President Father John Cavanaugh . . . "Our Lady is never outdone in generosity!" 
Sincerely, 

THOMAS F . BYRNE, 
Honorary President 
The Annual Alumni Fund 
By JAMES E ARMSTRONG, '25 Alumni Secretary 
It was evident in 1868, when Notre Dame's Silver Jubilee was observed, that the University needed material support from its alumni. The first Alumni Asso­ciation was formed then. With varying degrees of effectiveness it survived the ensuing years, and has become an in­creasingly vital part of the story of No­tre Dame. 
The demands of the University were modest to a point of humility. But the names of alumni benefactors were spread in increasing numbers on the pages of the University's progress. 
In 1921-22, when the University's first endowment campaign was launched, it was the Alumni Association that spear­headed the contacts with former stu­dents, and with non-alumni throughout the nation. It was the Alumni Associa­tion which made possible the grant from' the General Education Board that put the campaign over the top. 
From that day on the Alumni Associa­tion was a permanent organization with a full time oflice, an alumni magazine, a full time secretary, and a program which has matched the subsequent swift rise of the University. 

Alumni benefactors broke the philan­thropic silence that followed the com­pletion of the endowment campaign, and the end of the University's aggressive fund raising, to meet ever increasing opportunity. Names like Breen, Phillips, and Gushing are thrilling stimulants to Notre Dame men, and have been convinc­ing factors in the later benefactions of a gn^owing group of friends of the Uni­versity. 
The Alumni Fund 

But the late Frank Hayes, '14, and a number of alumni leaders, realized years ago that the alumni of Notre Dame would not be ready with capital wealth to supply the necessary subsidy for the rapid strides which Notre Dame was making in the march of American educa­tion. 
Notre Dame alumni were young. Large graduating classes were the outgrowth of the 1920s. 
Older alumni were largely first gener­ation college men, without inherited wealth, working their way through Notre Dame in large part, starting on shoe­strings in even larger part. 
So in 1930, Frank Hayes instituted in place of the annual five dollars dues the system of unlimited individual giving to Notre Dame through the Alumni Associ­ation, called then Living Endowment. It was a system already in use for yeais by Dartmouth, Yale, Cornell, and other schools. Aptly called, it substituted a 
Harry G. Hogan. '04 President of the Alumni Association 

realizable annual income, not fixed it is true but unrestricted in its use, for the highly regarded but definitely intangible capital endowment income which Notre Dame did not then have and showed little promise of getting for years to come. 
A great depression and the Rockne Memorial project combined to remove this system after an auspicious start. 
But when the University's sig^nificant Centenary occurred in 1942, it found the Alumni Association anxious to be of tangible aid, bulging with young men fresh from the economic rigors of a de­pression, looking World War II in the face. 
Harry Kelly, '17, recalled the values inherent in the system of annual giving, the value of an accumulation of small gifts from large numbers, the impor­tance of $25, when you consider it as the endowment income from some $850 at 3%. 
The Centennial Fund 

And in 1941 the Centennial Fund was announced as the Alumni Association's first contribution to the University's 
4 

progress for its second hundred years. 
When the Centennial Fund closed its 
books in August, 1943, it had raised 
$107,424.13 from 3,462 alumni. 
The Second Annual Alumni Fund, shorter in duration, closing on Decem­ber 31, 1944, increased its total amount to $111,405.56, but lost grround in con­tributors to only 3,313. 
The Third Annual Alumni Fund, ad­hering to the Alumni Board's objective of fitting it into the calendar year, cov­ering only the 12 months of 1945, again -. lost ground in contributors, to 3,096, and * the amount given in the brief period fell to $94,284.87. 
But throughout this period, the Uni­versity had found the Annual Alumni Fund one of its most encouraging finan­cial facets. During an era of uncertainty, it not only had its tangible place in pro­viding facilities otherwise sacrificed, but it enabled the administration to hold firm to the fundamentals for which No­tre Dame had stood for now over a cen­tury. 
Fourth Annual Fund Records 

And all doubt was dissipated of this agency's permanence and value when in 1946 the Fourth Annual Alumni Fund, within a 12-month period, raised $176,­
988.81 from 5,702 contributors. 
Notre Dame men had definitely found '^ a convenient way in which to speed the day of the University's economic delivery. 
And the process was reflected in the increased gifts from non-alumni bene­factors, many of them adopting the con­venient annual giving plan. 
Now the Fifth! 

Values are established. The Alumni Association is operating a program of activity and service through the Fund, never before possible for alumni. 
The University has progressed in aca­demic accomplishment, in the solving of personnel problems, and in prestige which alumni share, through the Fund. 
The pages of opportunity continue to turn faster than the pages of achieve­ment. How many pages Notre Dame will miss will stem directly from your par­ticipation, in increasing numbers andA[ amounts, in the implementing of pro­gress through the Annual Alumni Fund. Don't fail in the Fifth. 
Contributors by Classes, 1946 
(Fourth Annual Alumni Fund) 
(N. B. It has been the custom in the first three Funds to list the current donors to the Aimual Fund by name, and by amount contributed. The Fund now seems to be well estab­lished, its sights raised. There have been indications that the publication of individual amounts is not favored. While the Editor believes that the publication was valuable and while no direct complaints were received, with the Fourth Annual Fund Report^ the more common practice of alumni funds, publication of totals and averages,, but not individual amounts, is adopted. JEA) 
Pick. Edwin C, '03 Degen, Henry P-
Mnlcaby. Francis P. 

To 1900 Winter, Charles A., '03 1910 Donahue, Joseph F. O'Connell. Rev. Francis X. Parabaugh, G. A.. '04 Griesedieck, William A. 
Redden, William J. 

Halpin. George, '04 Hague* Harry G. 
Skelly. Daniel J. 

No. Per Hammer, Hon. E. E. L., '04 No. Per Hamilton. Donald M. Smitb, Joseph F. 
Con. Cent Amt. Jones. Thomas J.. '04 Con. Cent Amt. Howard, Rev. Edward J. Vaughan. Charles L. Cent. 49 2S.S $5,253 Kanaiey, Byron V., '04 Cent. 12 14.4 11,177 Wagner. John P. Second 30 23.4 1,43S Lonergan, Frank J., *04 Second 15 55.5 2.875 'Walsb, Joseph M. Third 24 14.7 McCartliy. John H.. '04 Third 10 37.0 5,330 Class Avenwe Gift « S9.53 
see Walter. M. Emmett 
fourth 31 19.2 1.5S1 Meyers. Joseph J., '04 Fourth 14 38.0 5,430 Sabscriber Avrrace 135.49 Proctor, Robert E., '04 Quinlan, John M., '04 
Hales, Thomas. '81 Stephan. Anton C, '04 Kaiser, Benedict J. 1915 Pendrich. J. H., '84 Berkley. Fred J., '05 Class Averase Gift $14.68 Lee. Jay it. Devine, William P., "85 Fahy, Bernard S.. '05 SnbMnriber AYerago 38.79 3IcCaftery, John C. 
No. Per Rothert. Hugo C, '87 

Gruber, Earl F., '05 McGlynn, Joseph B. . 
Con. Cent Amt. 

Rumnp, Charles E., '87 
Jamieson. William D., *05 McGrath. Chester 
Cent. 28 42.0 1384 Stubbs, Cliarles J.. '88 

O'Connor. Daniel J., '05 Coppinger. Lucien B. McLaughlin. John E. 
Boland. Francis H., '89 Second 19 27.0 355 
Record, James R., '05 Degen, Gerard T. Murphy. John P. 
Goebel. Rev. T. A., '89 Third 20 28.3 743 
Siicble, Ernest K., '05 Foley, Andrew E. O'Neil. Joseph A. 
Slorrison, Vincent E., '89 Fourth 33 40.2 3.311 
Stevens, Walter A., '05 Foley, James T. Phillip. Philip J. 
Chute, Louis P.. '90 
Van Rie. Dr. Leo P., '05 Grimth, John S. Stewart, Frederick J. 
Lone. Ferdinand G., '90 Herr, Stephan H. Steinhoff Edmund Y. 
Chute. Frederick B.. '92 Bartholomew. Norman C. 
Jenkins, Dr. Joseph St., '92 Burger, Alfred A. 
Lynch, Edwin J. Weeks, Edward J. O'Hara, R. A., '92 1906 to 1909 JIcGrath. Thomas J. Wrape, Alba H. Carroll, Wlliam M. ililler, Martin H. 
Cooney, James J., '93 Culllgan. Dr. John M. 
Moriarty. Rev. ilichael L. 

Eichenlanb. Raymond J. No. Per 1913 Farrell, Joseph R. 
Redding, James F. Con. Cent Amt. Flnnigan. Dr. Frank* 
Schmitt. William C Class ATemse Gift f 9.30 
Cent. 42 30.0 522.134 Freeze, Chester D. ,
Sobscriber ATerasre 51.02 No. Per 
Second 39 27.9 27.917 Hudson. GalTin O." 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Third 34 24.3 13.710 1911 Kelly. Raymond J. ; • 
Fourth 57 ::9.G 29,713 Cent. 22 35.S t3,5»S Kennedy. William E. •: 
Boland. William H., '94 Second 22 35.5 550 LaJole. Ernest P. 
Correll. William A., '94 No. Per Third 20 32.3 1,285  W. 
Lawler. James 

Fitzgerald, C. C, '94 Con. Cent Amt. Fourth 23 4S.0 410 Lenihan. Emmett G. 
Bosler. William N., *06 
Manley, John M., '94 Cent. 28 42.0 ;i,581 
Burns, Raymond J., 'OC 
Goldstein, Jules, '95 Second 19 28.3 895 
Dubbs. James A., 'OG 

Hudson. Hon. Arthur P., '95 Third 21 31.3 1,113 Blake, Richard V. 
Class Avenwe Gift 9M.38 

Funk, Arthur S.. 'OG Costcllo, Martin J., '97 Cartier, Morgan E. 
Wurzer, Louis C. '96 Fourth 31 41.3 1,391 Byrne, Paul R. 
Hammer, Thomas A., '06 Sabscriber ATOmse IMJB D.avezac, Gabriel, '97 Cotter. William E. 
McCarthy, Frank A.. 'OC 
Madden, Ralph C, '06 
Dannemiller, Albert J., '97 Babbitt, Edwin D. Granfield. Hon. William J. 
Moran, J. Bell, 'OG 

MacNaraara, Rev. John, '97 Brengartner, Elmer J. Herr. Jesse J. McCarthy. Charles H. 
Morris, Ernest M., 'Uti 

Quinn, James B., '97 Coquillard. Alexis Malone. L. P. 
O'Brian, Rev. William., '06 
Simpson, Arthur T., '97 Dant. John P., Jr. Matbews, James A. 
Sullivan, Joseph V., '97 O'Xeill, Hon. William P.. '06 Delana. Edward K." Class ATccase Gift « SA'i Mooney. William J. 
m 
Montavon. William F., '98 Shauffhnessy. Frank J.. '06 Foley, Daniel R, Snbsciibcr ATcrase t7J»3 Morley. Harry J. Schulte, F. W.. '98 Gehant. Oliver L. Monger. Harold H. 
Shea, John F., '06 
Wozniak, Peter A., '06 

Crepeau. O. W.. '99 Glynn. Edward J. Rlely. Edward F. 
McCormack, Michael J., '99 Hebenstreit. Anton R. Roach. Robert L. 
Bach, James H.. '07 Hogan, William N. Craiff, Leo F., '07 ' Janszen, Lawrence J. Sanford. James E. -
Hilkert. Albert A. 

Cunningham. Jas. V.. Sr., *07 Hope, James L. Kirk, Harry J. Schaub. Ray A. 
1900 to 1905 Dohan, Joseph F.. '07 Kelly, J. Martin, Paul R. Scott. Hon. Joseph 
 Charles 

Hanyz. Rev. Martin S., *07 Kramer, Dr. James G. O'Hanlon, Joseph R. Shea. William J. Jordan, James D.. '07 Ryan, Vincent D. Wells. March F. No. Per Louisell, Clifton M., '07 Sage, Fred L . Welch. John A. McDonald. Edwin A.. '07 Schumacher. Leo A. 
Con. Cent Amt. Class Averaxe Gift $18'»5 
Cent. 53 50.0 5,357 O'Connell. Hon. Ambrose. '07 Turner, M. Jay 
Subscriber Averare 44JMI 

Second 39 37.0 3.115 Sekinger. Frank J,. '07 
Third 32 30.2 3.14S 
1916 

Fourth 42 30.0 1.682 Lawton, Jasper H. 1914 Class ATerare Gift ?306.^ 
McLain, B. F. McNulty. John F. No. Per -Sabscrilwr Averaice 5S1.29 
Amt. 

Ferstel. William G., '00 ^lullin, Leo F. Con. Cent Amt. Cent. 32 45.0 1888 Dorley. Anthony F., '00 
Beechinor. Howard P.. '00 Monaghan. James C. No. Per Con. Cent 
JIurphy. Joseph B. Cent. 19 38.4 $529 Second 24 33.8 658 Bannon. Bernard A., OS' Quinn, Edmund J. Second 22 32.8 1,130 Third 21 2».5 618 Kuerze. Robert G., '00 Burke. Rt. Rev. Msgr. W. Qul.sh. Francis E. Third .9 32.8 897 Fourth 42 53.1 1,8301 Slevin. J. L. Spalding. '00 
P.. 'OS Fourth 25 25.0 11.199 
Carlton, Joseph R., '01 Reuss. Charles J. 
Cull. Frank X., 'OS 

Crowley, Jerome J., '01 Rosenberger, Anton A. 
Daschbacli, Ray J.. *0S 
Draper, William A., '01 Ruell, Ulric J. Beckman, Edward J. 
Daunt, William Schubert. Barrett. Lawrence William 
McGee, George A., '01  A., 'OS  Lawrence P. J. Bradbnry. E. ; ' 
Drew. Charles B.. 'OS Sexton, James C. Birder. Cecl] E. ' Carroll, Hash E^ Smith, Edward C, '01 Kobak. Edgar, 'OS Steers. L. Clay. Amos K. 
Brown. Henry E., '02  Fred Cermak. Jerome. F. 
McCaffery, John C, 'OS Wilson, John M. Dundon, Dr. John R. 
Cook. William J. 

St. George, Max J.. *0S Eick, Louis F. 
Cronk. EuKene D. 

Toohey, James A., 'OS 1912 Ecke!. Jacob £.• 
Class Averace Gift fll.93 
Wrape, Harold J., 'OS 
Eimer. Dr. Charles B. 

.,- SnbEcribrr ATeniee 40.06 
Bonham, E. Douglas, *09 Claas Avcrase Gitl «111.9S 
Fallon. Regis J. . . ^
No. Per 

Carville, Hon. Edward P., *09 Subscriber Avcrase 4i7.M 
Flynn, Joseph P. 
Con. Cent Amt 
Connell, James J., '09 Fries. Alfred F. 
Cent. 19 43.0 ?4.827 
Second 20 45.4 2,080 

- Cooney, Maurice J.. '02 Gushurst, Albert F., '09 Galvln. ^nmothy P. 
Jones. Vitus G.. '02 Hannon, Leo J., '09 
Farrell Simon T. Hayea, Thomas A. 
Third 13 29.7 3,797 

Monahan, Dr. Richard C., '02 Kanaiey, John B., '09 Feeney. Albert G. Humphreys, Raymond M. I Pick. John B.. '02 Kennedy, Hon. John J.. *09 
Fourth 25 37.3 3,385 

Fitzpatrlck. Keene P. Kelfer, Louis F. 
Bauman. E. 'Waiter, '03 McBride. Edmund L.. '09 Graczol, John, Jr. Kelly, Luke L.. 
Davitt. Harold H., '03 SlcCarty. Dr. Hiram G.. '09 Aud. Hugh P.  Fred W.  Casimer L
Gushurst, Krajewski. 
Gorman, Charles A., '03 Oelerich, Joseph F., '09 Bannon,.John M. 
Hanlon. George T.. Jr. Lacey. Hagh V. ,^
Halloren, Dr. ^V. H., '03 Peurrung, Joseph C, '09 Bruce, Edw*ard M. 
Hayes, Francis H. Lathrop. Ralph J. 
Kolup.a, Ladislaus A..- '03 Scanlon, Raymond J., *09 Costello, John W. Hurley. Ira TT. McCarthy, Dr. Jeremiah A. JIcKcever, Francis H., '03 Walker, Hon. Frank C, '09 Costello, Dr. Joseph P, Kane. Eugene A. McGrath. Joseph M. 
McLoughUn. M 'jor Joseph G. Maloiioy, Charles P. Metrger, Harry Meuser, William B. Miller. Grover F. Odem. James F. 
Class Arcrage Gift ¥3.1.IT Sabscribcr Average 43.58 
Prall, Frederick M. Schlipf. Albert C. Scully. Vincent C. Smith. Paul J. F. Sommerer. Edwin H. 
Swift. Fr.-nk E.' 
Turner, William W. 
Welsh, Frank B. 
1917 
^•c. Per 
Con. Cent Ami 
Cent. 3G 33.3 $3.23 • 
Second iS 41.7 J.65-. 
Tliird 32 29.0 4.14! 
Fourth 43 37.0 2.17= 
Bachman, Charles "W. 
Reh. Carlcton D. 
Brennan, James H. 
Brosnahan, Henry J. 
Cnrr. Robert C-
Cofall. Stanley B. 
Corcoran Charles G-
Daley, Richard D. 
Denigan, 'Willi-m E. 
Dorwin. Oscar J. 
Egan, William J. 
Pogarty, J. Paul 
Prantz, George F-
Grady, William A. 
Haberer, Bernard V. 
Hilgartner. Da-icl E.. Jr 
Kennedy, Dr. Thomas R. 
Kennedy, William E. 
McOsker, Ed word J. 
Mahaffey Fret'erick L. 
Class Averaiee Gifi $18.56 Snbscriber Averafre 50.55 
Miller, R. John. 
Anonymous 
Xeuscs, Arthur W. 
Xiffro, Dr. D. 31.; 
Odem, Brj-an S. ' 
O'Donnoll, Hr. F. J. 
O'Donnell, "^r. Leo D. 
O'Neil, Hugh M. 
Phelan. James M. 
Quinlan, Daniel J. 
Reagan, Cliarles 
Regan, Bernard M. 
Rogers, Edward J. 
Russell. Leon T. 
Scanlan. Thomas P. 
Schonlau. Emii. C.' 
Shanah-»n. George AV. 
Vogel, Lro J. ; 
Voll, Bernard J.' 
Welch, Lawrence J. j 
1918 
Xo. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. 1 
Cent. 28 4C.0 $4,020 
Second 27 44.3 1.1145 
Third 24 39.3 1.5r,o 
Fourth 3C 50.0 910 
Andres. William J. 
Andrews,. Francis A. 
CuUinan, Frank L. 
Dutrieux. Charles P. 
Eigelsbach. Carl F. 
Foley, Edmund I. 
Fritzsche Allan W. 
Giblin, Vincent C. 
Glasscott. Lorenzo A. 
Hanlon, James F. 
Hell rung. Herbert C 
Hurlej-. Francis J. 
Hyland, Richard V. 
Kazus, Maximilian G. 
Clam Arerace Gift $12.64 Sabsi*ribcr- Averace 25.22 
Lemmer, John A. , 
aicAuliffe. Robert H-
McDonald, William B-
McGlynn. DaniM F., Jr. 
McLaughlin, Edw rd M-

Mayer. Leon.ird F. Monighan. Rev. Francis P. Riley. Joseph T. Itonchetti. Peter J. Scliock. Georjjc A . Se-xton. Dr. Elmer B. Slackford. Frederick J. Smith. Knowles U. Si>eidel. John G. Starrctt. Morris Wagner. Louis E. Wallace. James G. Williams. Rev. Charles J. Zoia. Clyde J. 
1919 
No. Por 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Cent. 19 33.0 $:!.51S 
Second 17 33. t li.2S^ 
Third 25 '52.1 0.715 1 
Fourth IS 20.5 10,250 
Abbott. John V. 
Boczkiewicz, Peter A. 
Butler, John R. 

Carroll, JIaurice J. 
Costello. James E. 
Doyle, Louis P. 

Finske, Louis J. 
Fritch, Louis C. James, Clarence J. 
Clites Averace Gift $150.74 Subscriber Average 569.44 
Keen an. Frank J. 
King, Francis C 
Anonymous 

McGinnis, Joseph C. 
O'Connor. Earl T. 
Rcinhardt, George B.. Jr. 
Rice. Rudolph J. 
Roberts. Daniel C. 
Suttner. Joseph M. 
Sweeney. Frank H. 
1920 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amu 
Cent. 34 41.0 $729 
Second 24 29.0 G02 
Third *>9 2G.5 373 
Fourth 10 42.1 790 
Bailey, James H. 
Balfe, John T. 

Beacom, Thomas H.. Jr. 
Bergman, Ralph W. ' 
Call, Leonard if. 
Clements, Menefee R. 
Clohessy, Francis J. 
Connerton, Rev, James W., 
C.S.C. 

Dixon. Sherwood 
Doran, M. Edward 
Fox, William Francis, Jr. 
Gleason, John P. 
Hassenauer, Leo J. 
Class .Vvenige Gift $ 8.32 Subscriber Average 19.73 
Leslie, Humphrey L. Loosen. J- Paul McCabe. Raymond J. Madig.in. Edward P. Maguire. Rev. Patrick Meehan, Edward J. Moran. .Tohn P. Muckerm->n. R. C. Mulholland. Clement B. Murphy. Francis J. Xoonan. "William J. O'Sullivan. Clifford O'Toole. Eugene J., Sr. Pearson, P. Dudley Rosentlial. Josepli D. Ryan, Alfred C. Schmitt. Eugene R. Sidenfaden, Oscar L. Swift, Richard B. Trant. James I>. Verbiest. C. ilarcellus Walsh, Francis T. WaLsh. Herbert M. Ward. Leo B. Wheeler, James H. 
1921 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Cent. 26 27.7 $4S5 
Second 33 34.5 1,023 
Third 20 27.7 S13 
Fourth 50 47.0 1,5S3 
Abrams, Alfred R. Allen. William S-Brandy. Joseph R. Bryce, Alfred L. Carr, Daniel J. Cleary, Gerald J. Colgan. Alexander J. Conrad. Raymond J. Coughlln. Francis E-Craugh. Gerald J. Davis. Charles F. Dettling, John A. Dollard. Tliomas V-Dooley, C- Cameron Foley, Harold S. Foley. William E. Grant, D. Chester Hall, Forest J. Hayes. David V. Helmann, Dr. Joseph A". Huxford. James H. Kasper. Thomas C. Kccnan, Donald J. Kelley. Leo D, Kenney. John E, Lally. Lenihan L. 
Class Averace Gift $13.31 SubscribiT Average 28.28 
McGraw, Josepli R. ilaag. Joseph il. aieagher, Edmund J. Miller, Callix E. Mfvnsen, Leo J. Morgan, Lawrence R-Xearj-, William F. Nyikos. Stephen F-Ott. G. Lawrence Riley. Wilfred J. Sanford, Joseph F. ScaUan. Ricliard W-Schubmehl, Raymond J. Sherr>'; William J. Slaggert, Alfred X. Sullivan, Dr. Marion F. Tierney. Michael J. Von Drasek. Otto J. Walsh. Clyde A. White, William M. Witteried, George -C. Zimmerer, Mark E. 
1922 
No. Por 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Cent. 59 32.7 $3,450 
Second 50 33.3 1.525 
Third 4G 30.7 3.457 
Fourth SO 44.2 1.955 
A.she, Gerald A-­Black, Charles A-Black, Raymond J. Blasius. Francis C-, Jr. Bloemer, Frank B.. Jr. Bulowski, John L. Byrne. Edwin J. Castellini. William A. Connelly, Francis W. Coughlln. Daniel M. Cullen. John P. Daly. William J. Dooley, James R. Duffey, Joseph E. Files, Cjril B. Gaffney, Cyril F. Gallaglier, Rev. Robert E. Galloway. Robert P-Graf. Leo C. Healey, Mark R. Heffernan, John F. Heidelman, Eugene J, Herbert. Edward C. Hilkert. E. John Hirschbuhl, Charles J. 
Clas Averace Gifts $10.80 Sab!»cril>er Average 24.44 
Huether. John J. Huguenard. Aaron H. Hull. Daniel Jones. James • V, Jones, R. Gerald Kearns, Raymond J. Kellett. Cyril P. i Ker\'er. George G. \ Kirby. Arthur C. Krelghbaum, Dr. Wallac2 P. McCabe. Thomas S. McDermott. Paul I. Mahoney, John Maloney, W. Joseph Manion. Clarence E. Miles. Frank Jfurphy. William J. Nyhan, Konn P. O'Connell, Daniel J. 

Oesau, Dr. Harold T. Pfeiffer, Edward H. Pfohl, Paul J. Phelan, Robert R . Purcell. William F-He.irdon, John B. Reichert, Romaine R. 
Rice. John M. 
Scott. Alfonso A. 
Sextan. Dr. Daniel L. 
Sh.iw, James C. She.i. Robert D. Sllilts. Walter L. 
Smith. Clarence R. 
Storen. Mark 
Stuhldrehcr. Walter J. Welnrich. Arthur C. Wcis. Dr. Matthew W. 
Wynne. Chester A. 
Young. Daniel H. 
1923 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Cent. GO 36.3 $1,273 
Second 45 24.S 781 
Third 40 22.0 1,170 
Fourth 97 46.4 1.757 
Alt, Cornelius A. Bailey. E. Bradley Barnhart, Henry F. . Bradbury, J. Stanley Brennan. Martin H. Briley. John A. Brown, John W. Brown, Max J. Brown, Vincent J. Bruggner, Louis V. Burke. Geofferj* C. Byrne, John G-Casasanta, Joseph J. Chapla, John P. Cochrane, John.C. Cuddihy, J. Gerald Culhane, Daniel Dever. George A. Diedrich. Arthur J. Disney, Francis X. Doll, Clifford W. Donaldson, Josepli F. Doran, Dr. Patrick ('. Doriot. Frank S. Duffy, Rev. John E. Dwyer. Wilfred T. Picks, Albert, Jr. Fitzgerald, Hon. William T-Fltzsimmons, Frank T-Flinn, Neil W. Foley, Daniel F. Furey, William J. Galvin, Frank J., Gould, Edward W. Gretchen, Edward J-Haskins, William H. Joyce, Fred Kane, Michael G. Kelly, Edward D. 
Kelly, Edward J. 
Kiley, Hon. Roger J. 
Cl«!is Avence Gift $ 8.41 Sabtfcribrr Arcnic« llt-l~ 
Kreimer. Ed%vard P. Jr. Lauerman, Frank J., Jr. Lauerman, Henry J. Leahy. Thomas F. Lee, Thomjis J., Jr. Logan, F. Leslie 3IcDermitt, Francis F. Bfalno. Carlton B. Mai Ion, Paul R-Martin, James R-Mead, Raymond J. Medart, J. Reynolds Melody, Felix J. Montague, John M. Xash, Richard'J. Xeff, Cyril W./ .-Xeu, Frederick G. Xolan. William J. Xorton, John C. Xyikos, Joseph W. O'Grady, George J. Patterson. George A. Pfeiffer Comelius J. Qulnn, Robert G. Randall, T. Gerald Raub, Edgar J. Raail>er, Walter P. Raub, Waller I. R^id, C. David liiley. E. Clark Riley, John T. Roberts. Daniel C. Rohrbach, John ^I. Rolwing. E. Merlin Ryan, Edwin S. 
Seyfrit. Michael F. Sharp. Ivan C Sliea. W. E. Stock, George B. Strable. Lawrence L. Thomas. Francis AV. Torres. Jesse N. Valkor. Herbert P. Voss. William L.. Jr. 
Wallace. Francis 
Wrape, Valda 
1924 
No.  Per  
- Con.  Cent  .\mt.  
Cent.  63  30.3  $S63  
Second  5S  2S.0  1..SS0  
Third  54  26.0  1.534  
Fourth  91  50.5  1.670  

Arnold. Jerome C. Ash. William J-Bailey, William D. Baldus, George H. Barber. Thomas W, Barr. John B. Barry, George F, Barrett. John R. Birkbeck. Cyril T. Blunt. Hugh F. Boehm, Alfred M. Boyle. Hugh C Brady. Raymond R. Brown. Dr. Harvey F. # Buell. DeWitt P. Castellini. Albert D. Chausee. E. Louis Cooke, Thomas E. Crook. William J. Cunningham, RoI)ert S, DeBarry, Charles O. DeGurse, E. Xewell Donovan, Thomas C. Driggs. Harrj' S. Duthcy, Francis J. Foley. Lester W. Fox. Jerome F. Gallagan. William F. 
Class .\verace Gift $ $ 9.28 
SnlKKritier Average 18.36 
Gallagher, Rev. Donald S. Geniesse, Levi A. Glasscott. Robert E. Glynn. George H. Gordon. Thomas E. Green. Joseph A. Haley. J. Howard Hayes. James F. Heringer. Leo C, Hickey, John H, Hollaren. Vincent Hubert, Urban Hurley. James D. Kelly, Frank AV. Kennedy, Paul J. Koehler. AlvIn 1. Kreutzer. 3Iark G. Lindemann. Edward G. Lorden. Elbridge M. McGee, Raymond A, McGinnis. Francis J. . McGonagle, Charles A. McGoorty, John P.. Jr. McKeown, Joseph P. ^lancuso, Fred G. Martin, Paul C. Mayl. Eugene A. Meagher, Bernard P. Meehan. James R. Miller. Richard C. Molz, Charles O. ^Toran. Walter B. Murphy. Timothy J., Jr. Xolan, Hon. Mark E. O'Donnell. John C. Padden, Henrj* il. Rader. Walt R. Rearden. Dr. Louis B. Rink, Robert M. RIordan, Robert B. Robrecht, Charles J. Ryan. Joseph C, Scoggins, Robert C. Siegler, Michael A. Smith. James I.. Jr. Stillman, Harrj* B. Sullivan, Edward S. Sullivan, G. Don Sullivan, Roderick E. Swift. James P. 
«' 
Trenkle, Henry J. 
Walsh. Thomas J, 
Welch, William H. 
ASTieeler, James H. Willlhglianz, Eugene A. 
1925 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Ct-nt. 90 31.0 $2,399 
Second 94 32.5 2,257 
Third 93 32.2 1.735 
Fourth 13C 43.4 2.474 

Adrian. Michael J. Bartley. John A. Boll. William R. Bischoff. George A. Blum. Dr. Leonard A. Boettingor. Leo J. Boland, Maurice J. Burke, Dr. Fabian J. Burke, Joseph P. Burns. Leonard A. Byrnes. Edward G. Caldwell, Dr. Cyril J. Car{agno. Thomas F. Casey, Charles J. Casey, Lawrence T, Ccntlirre. Herman G. Cerney. 'William J. Collins. Francis J. Collins. James D. Condon. "Walter T. Connell. Daniel R. Corboy Stephen C. Corcoran, John T.. Jr. Courtney, John "W. Cunningham. Raymond C. Cyr, "Walter J. Daschbach, Albert F. DeCourcoy. Ray M. de la "V'ergno. Charles E. Downard, Thomas L. Driscoll. George P. Droegc, John R. Dupay. Peter P. Pagnn. "\''irgil P. Fellner. Al E-Frett, Ixm F. Fuite, Richard J. Fusz, Firman D. Gonzales. Antliony F. Gordon, Robert IC. Grace, Leo J. Grinagcr, Emmett M. Hall. Harold F. 
Class Averuec Gift $ 7.91 Subsvrif>er Avenige 18.19 
Hallman. Charles J. 
Harding. Clarence W. 
Hartnian . Paul A. 
Heob. Albert P. 
Heger, Ralph F. 
Hess, Leonard M. 
Hillenbrand. John W. 
Hoeffler, Paul D. 
Holland, Gerald J. ^ ^ Houpport. Walter W. | R Howland, Francis W. / Howland. Robert B. 
Hurley. John P.. Jr. 
Hurley, William. C. 
Jenkins. Xorman B. • 
Jones, J. Willanl 
Kaiser. Clarence J. 
Kennedy, Dr. Francis L, 
Kesting, Bernard G. 
Kilkenny, John F. 
Laughlin, George C. 
Ley, Bernard W-
Loftus. Thom.'is A. 
Luther. Edmund J. 
McAdams, Henr>* J. 
McCarthy, Frank J. 
McGann, J. Albert 
JEcKenna, John P. 
McMullen. Arthur W. 
MacXab, LL Bernard 
Magevney. Hugh M.. Jr. 
Menger. Joseph A. 
Jletzger. Walter J. 
Milbauer, Frank A. 
Momsen. Reuben F. 
Moran, John R. 
Mouch, Charles ^. 
MucHcr. Alfred C. 
MuUaney, Richard L. 
O'Xeil, Daniel J. 
O'TooIe. Edward F. 
Parnell, Robert X . 
J Pirchio, PasQualle 
; Polhaus, Edmund A. 
.r Powers. Leo J. 
J. Rahe, Paul A. 4 Roach. John W. ^j ^ Hodighero. Rudolpli G. j H Romwebcr, Paul C. ~ Sagstetter, Paul 
5 Scalise. Joseph J. 
Scallan. John W. '2 Scbaettle, Karl A. I Schneider, "Vincent J. 
Schnettler, Herbert R. Schroff. Lloyd B­
' Schuh. Vincent A. Scolaro, August T. Shelly Joseph D. Showol. John L. Skellei'. Xorbert F. Snakard. John W. Sobatzkl, Raymond J. Somnier, Albert A. Stanhope, Charles R. Steel, Frank E. Steuerle, Eugene J. Stoll. Carl F. Sullivan. G. Don Sullivan, M- P. Traynor, John P. Vergara. George A. Voor. William E. Walther. Francis T. Ward. George C. Watson, Frederick E. Webor, Jfaurice A. Whitman. John A. Wolf. Lester J. Worth. Robert 3L AVurzer, Henry C. 
1926 
No. Per 

Con. Cent Amt. Cent. 94 2S.S 52.070 Second SS 27.0 2,151-, Third 72 22.1 3.405 Fourth 120 44.S ::.322 
Adams. John Q. Bailey, Joseph A. Barr .William R. Broderick. Paul J-Burke, Thomas A. Byrne, Edward A. Cahill. Robert L. Campbell. John F-Cantwoll, Leo J. Casey, Dr. Harold W, Clark, Lyman J. Collins, Patrick F. Contway. John J. Coughlin. Dr. B. Daniel Ccughlin. Rev. Bernard J. Crowe. Edward V. Cummins. Robert B-Daly. Martin B., Jr. Deitle. Frank A. DolezaJ. Robert J. Dooley. AVilliam R. Doran. Robert J. Dougherty, Charles M. Duggan. Edward L. Dunne, Bert V. Durst. Raymond W. Dwyer, James P. Eggort, Herbert A. Fallon. Edward A. Farrell. Tiiomas A. Feldpausch. Roman C-Ferguson. Thomas E. Foohey. William L. Gelson, J. Norbcrt Glynn, James J. Goepfrich. Rudolph A. Goulel. Vincent U Griinn. John T. Guinon, Charles H. Hall, Austin K. Hargan, Edward P. Hartnett. George F. Hayes, Dr. Gerald W. Heintz, Charles F. Herbst. Frederick F. Hurley. Francis B. Hyland. C. Joseph Johannos, Al W. Johnson. J. Paul Kavanaugh. R. Xorlicrt Kcefe, Lawrence V. 
Cliiss Average Gift $14.58. Subscriber Averajrc 32.G8 
Kelley. John F. 
Klein, Francis A. 
Knaus. JIalcolm F. 
Landr>-. Ernest L. 
LoBlanc. Erwin J. 
Lemmer. Victor F. 
Lovicr, Lester L. 

Lynch. Edward P; McDermott. Gerald V. McGinJey, Gerald J. 
Marbaugh. Tlieodore P. Marguet, Charles P. JIason, Charles E. 3Iekus. Francis A. 
Millott. Johii J. ^looney, Cliarles A., Jr. 
Morsches, Gerald Mulanov, Charles W. Xachtogall. Alfred C Xowman. James H. Xolan. Roger W, 
O'Connell. Charles J. O'Day. George P. O'Donnell, John P. O'Xeill. Daniel J-O'Xeill. Dennis J. Pearson, James M-Pitscnberger. Claude it. Purcell. R. J. Putney, Dr. Bernard Reddington, Michael B. Reid. William J-Richter, Elton E. Rolwing, Francis D. Ronan, James A-Ryan, Joim J. St. John, l^eo P. Schaefer, Gilbert P. Shea, Joseph B-Sheridan. Thomas V.% Shouse. John T. Slater, Prank X-Smith. Gerald J. Smith, Robert H. Soisson, J, Vincent Su<Ier, Arthur H. Sullivan. W. Wade Swartz. Forest J-Sweeney, John J-Toomey, Rev. Joseph B. Touhey. Clare L. Tuohy. John O. Trohan.. Walter Velio, Alton C. 
Victor. Brother. C.S.C. Wagner. Joseph R­V.''aldron, James R. Walsh, Joseph A-Whelan. James P. Wingerter, Bernard K. Wrocklage, Theodore J. Yawman, Victor G. 
1927 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Cent. 9.5 30.0 S1.4i;9 
Second 92 29.0 i.ios 
Third 74 23.3 l.SOS 
Fourth 143 2.877 
:;s.2 
Abrott. Bernard J-Anderson, Paul J-Barron, Emmett I. Beretz, Charles X-Beretz, C Paul Berkery. Edwin A-Berner, Sebastian T. Bielli. Stephen J. Boland. Joseph 31­Bourke. Edward F-Bradley, Arthur J. Brennan. Eugene F. Brennan. John W-Butler. Paul M. Byrnes. Edward P.. Jr. Callahan, Edmund D, Campbell, Hugh L., .Tr. Carter. William E. Cate. William S. Clarke. Philip J. Cohen. Maurice Coleman. James W. Conlin. John R. Conroy, Thomas R. Coonoy, Robert R. Corbett, William J-Corcoran, H- Justin Cunningham, Daniel F„ Jr. Curtis. John D. Dailcy. John A. Dean, Anthony P. Dcgnan. V.'illiam J. Delia Maria, Joseph P. DeLong. Robert C Diebold. Alfred J., Jr. Dooll. Philip E. Dohogne. T. F. Donahue, Patrick W. Dunn. Joseph R. Dunn. Robert C. Dunn, Thomas B. Farley. Thomas F., Jr. Favero. Bartholomew C. Fiehrer, Marc A. Faherty. James F. Foley, James P., Jr. Foley, John A. Froolich. Gervase A. Galone, Andrew X. Gear>-, John D. Gartland. Joseph A.. Jr. Gish. Tobe M. Green. Thomas P., Jr. Halpin, John J. Halpin, Richard L. Hatfield. Hon. Malcolm K. Hearn. Willfam G. Heneghan, Frederick J. Hengesbach. Vincent P-Higgins, John T. Holland. William il. Holmberg. Bruce J. 
7.. 

Howard, Benjamin T. 
Irmfger, Robert . 
Jones, Herbert B. 
Kane, Frank L. 
Kavanaugh, William D. 
Kemps, Carl F. 
Kenny, Thomas F., Jr. 
Kerstlng, Raymond E. 
Lavelle, Regis I. 
LcchowicK. Stanley J. 
Leona, Sister SI., SC 
Lcroux, Clayton G. 
LeStrange. Henrj- G. 
Lloyd, Richard K. 
McCabe. Harold T. 
McCluskey, Daniel W. 
Class ATerace Gift f T.SS Subscriber ATemce S3.13 
McCuIIough, IViJliam H. JlcCurrie, Francis T. ilcDermott, Michael P. McFadden. Francis P. ilcGee, Joseph. M. McGee, Thomas P. McKenna. Walter P. McLaughlin, Edward J­iiacDonald. William S. Madden. Thomas P. ilead, George J. Miller, Arthur B. Moran, Rev. James J. Mullen, Dr. George C. Murphy, John M. Murphy. Joseph W. Nanovie, Albert T. Nash, Thomas E. Nyiko."!, John J. O'Brien. Edward E. O'Connor, James J. O'Connor. Thom.is K. O'Donnell, Joseph F. OehlholTen, J. Frank O'Hanley, John L. Ohneraus, John C. O'Keefe, William A. O'Xeill, Charles A. Patton, John M. Pendergast. Francis .1. Petrone. Dr. John c. Philip Brother. CPX Prag. Dr. Ralph Jr. Quinn, James T. Reidy, John J. Rellls', Carlton B. Rigaii, Joseph V. Ruddj-, Clarence J. Kyan. Edwin L. Kyan, Rev. Harry Ryan, Paul w . Scharf, Xorbert M. Sefranka, Louis A-Sehl. Donald J. Sheeran,-Dr. Daniel H. Shields, Robert E. Slatterj-. John W. Smith, Alban M. Smith. Glenn L. Smithberger Andrew T. Stange, Augustus H. Stephan, Robert D. Sullivan, John B. Sullivan. John E. Thomas. George E Travi.s, William L.' Vaughan. James E. WiIco.x. Walter W: 
1928 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. 
Cent. 104 25.0 ?1,499 
Second 93 22.5 997 
Third 88 21.2 1,260 
Fourth JS3 35.3 2.547 
Amiot, Xeil H. Armin. William P. Berr>-, James P. Bennett. Gordon Boyle, Thomas D. Bradley. Dr. Daniel J. Brannon. John £. Braunsdorf. Josepn A. Brust, Paul C. Canny. J. Patrick Carlin, John E. Carr, Louis J-Carrig. Lester J. Cavanaugh, John P. Cleary. M. J. Clement, Henry W. Collins. Thomas S. 
Conley. Tllaurlce B. Conmey, James J. Connors. Francis H. Connelly. Bernard J. Cowles, James G. Creadon, Francis P. 
Crongeycr. George W. Cronin, William F.­
Crowley, Dr. Bernard V. Crowiey,; John M. Cnllen. James W. Culliney, I^wrcnce J. Daly, James H. David. Francis E-, Jr. Davis, Alb«rt F. Davis, John A. Dean. Edward J. DeBott, Joseph T. DeCIercq. Jerome C.­Devlin, James A. Donahue, Terence C Donovan. Francis J. Duffy, Edward J-, Jr. Duquette, Francis L. Evans. Robert P. Ewing, Wayne H. Fagan. John J. Farrell, Dr. Marcus E. Finn. Edmund J. Fontana. John C. Frederick. John Fedus Galardy. Frank M. Garber, Bernard A, Givren, James C. Glaska, John M. Grams, August M. Grant, Robert A. Gury. Albert P., Jr. Hamilton. Robert A. Haney. Joseph A. Hart, Thomas M. Hartley. James J. Hasley. Henry Hatch, Glenn Martin Haven, Clarence B. Herbert, John R. Hegarty, Dr. Francis A. Hilger. Joseph P. Holton. Lt.Comdr. Arthur P. Homer. Charles A. Hurley. William A. 
Class ATcnce Gift f S.SII Sabscribrr Avemse 18 ^ 
Igoe, John D. Jeffery8, Hudson Jenkins, Augustus E. Keams. James R. Kelly, Frank J. Kelly, William W-Kirby, Robert E. Kirwan, Joseph W. Kirwan, Martin J.; Jr. KIssling, Joseph P. Konop, William H. Krembs. David Langton, J. Joseph I.arsen. John P. Lavelle, John S. Leahy, William H. Leppig. George E. Loeffler, Bernard T. Loranger, Guy L. McCabe, Herbert P. McCIamon. Edmund P. McCormack, Edward J. McGauley, Edward J. Mclntyre. Leo R. ^(cLaughlin, John C. 3/aggi, Edgar B: Mahar, AlUn H. Martin. George R. -Massman, Henry J.. Jr. Merloni, Peter E. Miller. Harold A-MHiguy, Arthur A. Mobily, Sylvester M. Moore, Pearl L. Morrissey, Joseph S. Mullen, John A. Murphy, John P. Murphy, John R. Xorman, Louis W. O'Connor, Philip A. O'Connor, Pierce J. Palmer. Roy W. Pater, Clem A. Jr., Phalin. Howard V. Pluchel. W. Henry Power, Kenneth E. Quinlan. Richard D. Quinn. Edward R.. Quinn. Francis J, Robinson, John F. Ryan. Martin A. Salmon. Martin J. Sargus. George J. Scheuer, George A. Schiltz, Eugene A. Schnurr. Alfred A. Schuessler, Charles A. Schultheis, Leo J. Seidensticker. Norbert A, Sbeedy, John C. Shelanskey, Charles J. Sin:onin, Joseph H. Smith, David Henry Sporl, Cyprian A., Jr. Smith, Russell R. • Switzer, Fred M., Jr. ­Thoma. C. Arnold Topping, Charles G. 

Stettler, H. Louis, Jr. Halpin, Daniel D. 
Toussaint Walter J. Mulhall. Joseph H. Fink, Francis A. 
Hannabach, Francis J. 

Varraveto, Patrick M. Xash. John R. Finnogan, J. Francis Sulli\-an, Daniel G. 
Wagner, Mflton J. Xiezer, Louis F. Fletcher, Bernard D. Sullivan, Donald D. Henneberger, Francis J. Fogel, Warren S, Sullivan, James W. Hershfield. Myron C. 
Walsh. Vincent T. Xowery, James R. 
Hickey, 

Winberry, John J. O'Brj-an, Josepl) G. Folks. T. John. Jr. Sweeney, Edward J.  John P. Wingcrter, John J. O'Connor, Gerard P. Francis, Harry H., Jr. 
Sweeney, Francis F-Holland, Francis J. Timlin, Joseph F. Hughes. Dr. James J. 
Wood, Capt. B. P. O'Connor, James C. Frey, Henry R. 
Huctz, Robert G. 

Wozniak, Stephen J. O'Keefe, Michael J., Jr. Frontczak. M. Joseph Toomey, Timothy J. 
Karl, William C. 

O'Malley, Terrance R. Gallagher, Arthur J. Travels, Martin J-
Kavanaugh, George F. 

Ouellette, Jerome E. Gallagher, Hugh A. Walker, Francis X. 
Kearney, 

Perkins, John X. Gass, Charles S. Walker, John A.  Joseph J. 
1929 
Gibbons, John VT, AValter, E. Richard Kelly, Joseph P. 
Perone, Rocco D. Quigley, Thomas J. Goggin, Patrick J., Jr. "Weber, George T., Jr. Kendall, Robert D. Regan. Louis J. Golden, John D. 
Welchons, Dan A. Kennedy, Harr>- E. Reynolds, Harold P. Goodman, Morton R. Welzenbach, Alois J. Kirby, Joseph B. 
No. Per Konop, Philip L-
Roth. Francis AV, Gruning, Carl H. Wetli, Joseph L. 
Con. Cent Ami. 

Hamilton. Francis D. Williamson, James E. Kopek, Henry S. 
Rowland, John -K. 
Cent. 9C 30.0 53.29S 

Rudd. Joseph R. Harbert, Xorbert P. Winkler, George F.. Jr. Kovacs, Charles J. 
Second 77 24.2 l.b47 

Saxon, David W. Hasley, Louis L. Woodruff, Clayton C. Krai, Lawrence P. 
Third S4 2.11? 

2G.4 Scliell, Oliver F. Heineman, George A. Yelland, John D. Kuhn, John J. 
Fourth 142 31.9 3.307 Zapp, Michael Kuhn, Robert J. 
Schneider. Cletus P. Hellrung. Robert T. Schrall, Leo S. Hennessj', Joseph W. Ziliak. Raymond G. 
Langenfeld, Edward P. Schulze. Robert J. Hill, John J., Rev. Zimmerman, Fred M., Jr. Lauerman. Joseph A-Ahern, Francis D-Seitz. Reynolds C. Hinsenkamp. Henrj* E. Leahy, William R. Shea, Thomas C. 
Altman. Rev. Henry B. Holmes. Robert A. Lenciono, Daniel C. Sidenfaden, William R. Houghton, Walter C-
Angelino, Joseph S. Lenoue, Bernard J. Bamett, Joseph T. Stackpoole, John M. Irwin, James D, 1931 McAdams, Franlc J-
Bartholomew. Paul C McCarthy, William C, Jr. 
Stauder, Lawrence F. Johnston. Ralph E. 
Bertsch. Paul A. Sullivan. John B. Jones, W. Kennedy Per McGannon, Robert L. Blackall, Clair J. Sullivan, John L. Killoren, Eugene F. No. McGough, Thomas M. Brady, James Kingsley, Jr. Con. Cent Amt. ilclntyre, John E. 
 M. Sullivan, Joseph S.  George H., 
Bray, James F. Cent. 139 32.5 $1,723 MeKeever, F. Jerome 
Sullivan, M. P. Langford, Walter M. 
Brennan, Robert J-Second 114 26.7 1,70!! McKenna. Robert L. 
TecTPri, Dr. D. Joseph Lantrj', Harrj' W. 
Brennel, Lorenzo li. Third lOS 25.3 1,944 McManmon, Arthur T. 
Tobin, John R. Lantrj-, Thomas F. 
Brokhaee, Paul H-Trottt'r, Robert M. Laurie, Donald Fourth 200 40.9 2,S13 McMurray, Jolin J. Brown, •^\^lliam E.  Robert Law, John G. McQnaid. James D. 
T>-li?r, M. 
Burke, John F. P.  James MacDonald. Donald F. 
Tyt), Clayton F. Leahy, C 
Burke, John T. Leahy. James E. Allard, Romeo P. iladden, Edward B. 
Vaichulis, Dr. John A. 
Bums, Henrj- I*. ilahon. Edward J. 
Vorilli, Daniel M-Lean, Edward W. Anderson, John W. Burns. William H-Wagner, Fred J. Lee, Rev. Charles A. Ashe, Thomas R. Manley, John W­
B>Tne. William T. Marshall. Robert M. 
Waldron. Edw. yu, Jr. Lillig, F. X'orman Askew, James H. 
Canty, Thomas G. Walsh, A. Loyce. Ray Bailie, Roy C. Meagher, Edward J. 
 Philip A. 
Carney, Vincent P. Wanek, George C. Luedtlc. Walter H. Barber, Richard J, Meagher, John F. 
Cline, Virgil P.  R.  Edward W-ilerdzinski, Harry L. 
Ward. James J, McAloon, Leo Barney, 
Colarusso, Sam. A. Whalen, Joseph E. McCabe, M. Joseph Baskerville, Robert J. Metzger, Bert L. 
Colton, Charles F. ililtner, Charles H. 
Wilhelmy, Cliris B., Jr. McCann, Arthur J. Beaupre, Russell J. 
Cronin, W- Francis Monalian, Thomas F., Jr. 
Winchester, Rev. Otis S. McDougal, Tliomas E. Bergen, Arthur C. 
Currj', James 3X-Witz. A. JIcGee. John B. Biggins, James A., Morphy, G- Alvarez 
 Theodore M.D. 
Cushman, John H. Wolf. Ivan R. McKay, Gerald E. Blanda, John R. ilotseit. Rev. C. Bourka Zappone. Francis L. 
Deniger, Reynold A. McLaughlin. Patrick Blatt. Rev. Bernard A. Mulflur. Edward F. Dick, Robert A. :MacDonald, Dr. Robert R-Bohling, Nicholas J., Jr. ilulreany. Albert A. Malloy, James A. Boyle, Austin L. 
Digan, James E. ilurphy, Carroll B. Doan. Frankyln E. Manske. Hadrian E. Brandon. Lucas H. Murphy. Donald F. 
Doll, Howard F. Murphy, James G. 
Martzel, Victor J. Brennan. Edward R, Donahue. John J. Medland, Thomas G. Brieger, Earl W. 
ilurphy, Walter J. Donelan, William J., Jr. 1930 Messick, Francis M. Burns, John C. Murray, Edward J. Dorgan. John W. Miller. William H. Callahan, Thomas W. Murray, James H. 
Dougherty, Sylvester J. Moran, J. Vincent Carroll, James M. Murray, James W. Dowdall, \ViIliam P. No. Per iloran, John T. Chawgo, William B. JIurray, Patrick F. Con. Cent .\mt. Morrison. Charles G. Chiara, Roland A. Durbin, Stephen A-Xeydon, Robert L. Fahey, Edward J. Cent. 127 2S.C $1,234 Mulick, Edward B. Clark, Daniel A-Oakes. Thomas E., Jr. Fitzpatrick, James L. second 110 24.S l.J2r. Mullen, Cyril J. Collins, Thomas H. 
O'Brien. James J. Fortier, Willard C Third 79 17.S 1,217 Murpliy. Thomas G. Comeford, James J. O'Connor, George L-Friel. Joseph G. Fourth 191 40.5 2.204 Xanovic. John L. Connelly, Richard T. O'Connor, Dr. Paul A-, 
Girardino, Cummings il. Xardone, Mario P. Conness, Robert E. O'Connor, Ward F. Xavarre. F. James Connors, Raymond F. 
O'Hora, Joseph Xeeson, Richard T. Cook. Leo K. 
0'Lear>', Lawrence A. Abbott, Joseph A. Xelson, John E. Crowley. Jerome J., Jr. 
O'Malley, Thomas P. Class AveniKe Gift $ 7.43 Aman, Andrew A., Jr. Culligan. Jerome S. 
O'Rourlce, Tierney A. O'Shea, Bartholomew T. 

Subscriber Averai;e 23.29 Amato. Francis X. 
Cunningham, Edwin F. O'Shea, Lewis J-
Armbruster. Dr. Fnincis J. Ashman, Chester M. 
Cushwa, Cliarles B.. Jr. Dalton, Ralph James 
Barry, David. Jr. O'Toole. Donald E. 
Class Average Gift $ 4.67 Deegan, Harry J. 
Grathwohl, Casper R. Berardi. Louis Perry, Gilbert V. 
Bess. Herbert Sul»§criber Arcrasre 11.54 Dericks, Richard J.  Walter 
Greer, J. Walter  F. Philipp, F. 
Desenberg, "William R. Dittoe, Francis R. 
Grey, Jack I., Jr. BishK-o. Michael J. Ponic, Vincent G. 
Bitter, John A., Jr. 
Griflin, Gerald R. Poulin, Rolland J. 
Dolan. Jolm M. 
Haas, Gaylord P. Bloom, Richard A. Powers, Charles F., Jr. 
Haney, Louis F. Bohrman. Charles D. Xowerj-, John E. Donlan, Joseph R. Radosevich, John C. Hart. Thomas V. Rahaim, Frederick J. 
Bondi. .\ugust L. O'Connor, Lawrence A. Donoghue, Richaril L. Havelick, Francis J., Jr. Raleigh, John J. Broeker, Bernard D. O'Rourke. Tierney A. Dorschcl, John G. Bromann, William H., Jr. O'Toole. Dr. Richard R. Downey, Martin W. Hemming. Dr. Philip C. Regan, Dr. ^laurice J, 
Brosnan, Peter B. Palermo, Joseph P. Downs, Francis J. 
Heuer, Hilmar E. Riesing, Werner A. Hinkel. John V. Rhomberg, Louis A. 
Brown, Thomas If. Parent. Fred R. Doyle, James T. Butler, Francis J., Jr. Parent, Walter E. Egan, Daniel J. 
Holohan, Paul D. Richter, George A. 
Cannon, Daniel F. Parmigiani. Josepli A. Ernst, Edwin H. Jewell, Everett A. Rizer, James L. 
Homing, Claude H. Ridley, Walter R. 
Cannon. John J. Peak. Charles F. Esposito, Dr. Louis AV. Johnson. Karl F. Carey. Cornelius J., Jr. Petersen. Arthur E. Fedder, Francis G. Ryan, Edward B. Carney, Leo H. Prendergast, Jolin G-Fishleigli, Kenneth J. 
Jones, George F. Robinson, Joseph H. 
Cassidy, Kenneth H. Purcell, Thomas J. Flannerj', Francis E. 
Kearns, John T., Jr. 
Roche, All)ert W. 

Cassidy. William E. Quinn, John J. Flynn, Edward J. 
Keating, James E. 
Salmon, T. Gordon 

Chapleau. Louis C Ready. Francis T. Flynn, Frank T.. Jr. 
Keefe, Joseph E. 
Schmitt, John C. 

Kelly, Joseph H. Clark. Heno' J-Reaumo. William J. Franck, Edward L. 
Schreiner, Antliony R. 

Kircliner, Marcellus C. Conroy Bernard Wm, Redgate, John C. Futter, Clarence H. 
Seward, Francis E, 

Conroy, Edward G. Redmond. Edward J. Gadek, Dr. William V. 
Kraker. Joseph H. 
Shamon. George B. 

Krieg. William H. Conway, Patrick J. Reisert. William A.. Jr. Anonymous Shean, Hobart P. 
Lenihan. Lt. Comdr. Joseph Costeilo, James C. Richards. Samuel E. Gall, Alfred E. 
Skahan, James R. 

Loshbough, Bernard E. Cronin. T. Lawrence. Jr. Rielley, David J., Jr. Gallagher, James B. Loughran. William C. Cunningham, Frederick L. Rigley. Robert L. Gannon, Dr. Francis J. 
Slatterj-, Jarlath il. Lyons, Dr. Edward J. Cunningham. Thomas P. Rolir. Charles E.. Jr. Gannon, Dr. John It. 
Stelzer, Harold J. • Lyons. John J. Dart, Joseph A., Jr. Rooney, Francis J. Garland, Leo B. 
Stepan, .\Ifred C. Jr. McAnaney, Francis A. Delany. Frederick T. Ruppe, Joseph P. Gaudie. Gilbert D. Sullivan, John C. Sullivan, Jolin F. Dempsey, Edward J. Scanion. Joseph M, 
McDevitt. Harley L. Gavin. Joseph J. 
Sullivan. John R. 

Denncliy. Arthur F. Scanlon, Leo J. McManlgal. Hugh J. Derby, Charles Y. Sclioland, AValter J. Golabowski, Joseph T. Sulivan, Robert J. 
JIcKinney, Charles J, Gies, Xoel M. 
Sutton, Deon B. 

DiGiorgio. Philip P. Schoppman, Frederick D. Marshall. Harold J. 
McNamara, Joseph P. 

Dorwin. Arthur il. Shay. George D. Tedors. Michael V. Martersteck, Karl E. Doyle, William F. Sherrj-, Stephen E. Terre. Wilbert L. 
Class Average Gift ¥ 5.7.'> 
ilaucieri, Anthony J. Drinane. Joseph S. Shipacasse. Albert J. Tohulka, Kenneth D. Meyer, Francis D. Duke, Harold E. Simpson, Harold X-Tolchinsky, David 
Subscriber. Avvrare 14.61 
Dunlevy, William A. Slick. Edwin E.. Jr. Touliy, Albert J-Milliff. Eugene A. 
Miller, Fred C. 

Eggeman, Robert F. Sloan, Robert V. Tuberty, Harold J. 
Gordon, C. Blake 
Elder. John J. Smith. Howard J. Wachsmuth, Frank C. Molloy, John G. Enright. Laurence F. Smallwood, Charles T. Walsh, Hon. Harrj- F., 
ilitiguy, John F. 

Gore Robert H. Grant, Paul P. 
•^avret. James E. Sowa, Fnmk J. Walsh, James F, Monroe, George M. 

Griesedieck, Henrj' L., Jr. 
Fay, Joseph T., Jr. Staudt, R. Zeno. Jr. Weibler, John O. 
Moore, Laurence A. 

Griffin, James J. 
Fennell, Edward G. Stoinbacher, Harold E.' Wells, Charles S. 
Morgan, Peter J., Jr. 

Grisanti. Alfred C. 
Ferriter, Thomas F., M.D. Steitz, William X. Wider, 2£artin F. 
;yiotter, Lawrence J-Gross, Seymour R. 

Wiggins. Jerome M. Wilk, Joseph A. AVittman, Charles J. Zuber. John H. Zudeck. Ronald H. 
1932 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. Cent. 134 25.0 $l,04i; Second 114 21.2 1,062 Third 94 17.7 1.C2S Fourth ISS 37.7 2.453 

Adams, M. Clay Altmau. Nathan D. Arehart, George A. Asman, Dr. Henry B. Baldinger, Lawrence H. Ball. Hugh E. Barrj-, John S. Barton, Andrew P. Bauer, Frederick J. Belden, Paul B.. Jr. Bleeg, John P., Jr. Bontempo. Salvalore A. Brennan, Rev. Vincent P. 
Bresson, Bernard C. Brichacok. Francis A. Burns, Thomas A. Carey, Joseph H. Carney, John D. Carrico, James A. Cass, "William P., Jr. Cassidy, ilost Rev. James E. Chadwick, James H. Charles, Brother CF.X. 
(Wintergerst) Christman, Norbert J. Clark, Paul D. Collins, James K. Collins, John J., Jr. Conaton, William R. Conboy, Francis J. Condon, Leonard "W. Connelly, Eugene T. Consolati. Francis A. Conti, Anthony J. Conway, John E. Cook, Sheridan Cooke, Joseph G. Crawford, Dr. Jlyron E. Crockett. Charles W. Czapalski, Stanley J. Dalsey, Joseph G. Davis, John W. DelPrete. Louis J. DeVault. Howard R. Dewey. Robert E. Dillon, Terrence J. Diltz, Richard C. Dolan. Martin E. Donoghue, Bernard J. Donohoe, Richard C-Donohoe, Vincent J. ZJoucet, James V. Duerr. Clayton S. Dunn, Joseph J. 
Class AvemKe Gift Subscriber Average 13.06 
Ernst. Francis R. Ewing. Joseph H. Fletcher, Vincent T. Freidhoff, William F. Galligan, Thomas A. Gately, Thomas J. Gelger, Raymond A. Glancy, Hubert J. Graham, Francis X. Hall, "William T. Halpin, Theodore S. Harbaugh, Noble F. Harrington, B. William Heckard, Martin R. Hechinger, Ernest C. Hessmer, Everitt L. Hilger, James R. Hitzelberger, A. Charles Hogan. William L. Houlahan, Michael L. 11 owe, Paul A. Huber, Verne W. Hugger. Jerome H. Humphreys. John H. Hurley, Neil C, Jr. Hyland. Clifford F. Jackson, John W., M.D. .Tohnson, H. Clay Jones, Charles D. Jordan, John A. Judge, William J. Kalmes, Nicholas M. Kelley, Edward H. F., Jr, Kennedy. Joseph E. Kiencr, John A. Killian. Donald B, Kiolbjisa, Walter A. Ktein. Gerald H. 
Knight, Edmund J. Kolski, Edwin T. Koontz, Edward J. Kuhn. J. Regis Lambert, Richard P. Lavelle, Vincent F. Linn. Gerald B. Luckett, Angelo B. ilcCarthy, Florence J., Jr. McEachern, Allan P. McGinnis, Thomas il, nrcLaughlin, Leo V. Magarrall, William J., Jr. Magee, Thomas J. Maloy, Kingsley D. Maronick, Joseph V. Meehan, James T. Meyer. Carl F. Jleyer, Henry A. Moran, Gabriel E. Moreau, Eugene J. Murnane, D. Frank. Jr. Murray, Francis L. • Nigro, Sabath il. Noonan, Walter F. Obelenus, Stanley C. O'Connor, James P. Oelerich, Francis J. Oelorich, Richard V. 0*Hara, Bart W. 0*Keefe, J. Barry Olson, John P. O'Malley, Edward F. O'Malley, Tliomas P. O'Neil, Vincent D. O'Neil, William F. O'Rourke, Alphonse F. O'Shaughnessy, Colman B. Petretic. Cliarles J. Petzel, Herbert W. Pfeiffer, Ravmond L. Prodehl, Clifford E. Quigley. Charles M. Quirk. Patrick J. Rhatigan, Edward E. Rinella, Samuel J. Rohlof, Louis R. Roney, Richard T. Ross. John J. Rossiter, Claude L. Ruiiing, Cornelius J. Russo, Dr. Albert J.. Jr. Ryan. Donald T. Ryan, ^lajor G. Bentloy Ryan, John E. Salvaty, Benjamin B.. Jr. Scanlan, John M. Schissel. Conrad L. Simmons, James W., Jr. Slader, William T. Staunton. John J. Streb. Robert C 
Sullivan, J. Donald Sullivan, Richard T. Svete, Leo C Terry, Walter E. Theisen, Gerard C. Tomasi, Dr. Francis C. Toussaint, Joseph .\. Trieweiler. Francis J. Trolio, Peter J. Trotter, James M. Vallely. Eugene D. Van Rooy. William J. Vassallo. James Armando Waltz. William D. Webster, William G. Wehrlen, Herbert Weir. William G. Weiss. Cliarles F. Whalen, Robert J. White. Alfred B. Wiener, Arnold A. Yoch. James J. 
1933  
No.  Per  
Con.  Cent  Amt.  
Cent.  137 32.0  $S52  
Second  106 25.1  1.250  
Third  95  22.5  1.452  
Fourth  206 40.4  3,167  

Abbatemarco. John D. Alvino, Alphonse V. Barrett. John if. Behan. Thomas P. Blttorf, Joseph H. Blisard. Thomas A. Bodo. William Boespflug. John F. Bolger, Comdr. George E. 
Borda. Joseph L. Botti, Andrew C Bourke, James L. Bowes, Norman M. 
Breen, John F. 

Brehler, Joseph C. Brennan, Roger P. Brlnker, John B. Buckley, Walter W. Burke, James V., Jr. 
Butler, Albert N, Byrne, Robert J. 
Calhoun. Eugene C. Cameron, John C. Carideo, James V. Carroll, William J. Carton, Richard C. Gary, Dr. John F. Case. William E. Casey, Daniel J. Chawgo. Louis E. Cholis, Nicholas P. Chreist. Louis R., Jr. Cluver, Henr>- J. Collins. John J. Clark, James B. Conley, Charles A. Couslno. Bernard L. Coyne. Eugene J. Crowley, Patrick F. Dailey, Edward W. Dames, Roland N. Darmody, Philip A. Darrow, W. Lawrence Davey, Joseph F. Day, James .\. DeClerck. Francis E. de la Vergne, Jules K. DeLay. Bernard M. Devlin, James C. DeWald. Maurice J. Dockman, Joseph J. Donalty, Francis "W, Donovan, Dr. Robert E. Doran, John M., Jr. Dorris. Thomas B. Doyle, James F. Dreux. William B. Drj-malski. Alvln V. Duke, Norman E. Dunda. Lawrence J. Dutt, Arthur R. Ebert, Neill AV. Eckert, Edward J. Entrup. Cyril P. Faherty, Philip J., Jr. 
Chkss Average Gift $ 6.31 Sub-jcriber AveraKe 1S.38 
Fallon, Francis X., Jr. Farris. Charles I*. Fayette, Frederick J. Finneran, John F. Fiss, Charles J. Fitzpatrick. John D, Fitzsimmons, Robert J. Flint. Robert J. Foley, ililton J. Fullem, Joseph ^'. Fogarty, Francis J. Foley. Joseph M. Fnink. Carlos H. Fulton, Robert V.. Jr. Galla, John J. Candour. Jackson Gargaro, Ernest J. Garrity. Donald Giorgio. Dr. Douglas J. Goepfrich. George E. Gorman. Tliomas A. Gradel. Urban H. Grattan, Henry A. Greer, Ralph G. Griffin, Thomas E. Haberkern, Ernest F. Harrison, Rev. Frank J. Harrison. Dr. George W. Hawkes. William M. Hess, Loren J. Hlggins, Willard J. Hofmann, Joseph A., Jr, Hosteny, Richard N. Hoyt, John A., Jr. 
Hughen, Thomas A. Hughes, :Martln L. Hunter, William P. Hurley. Francis H. Jaeger, John G. Jaeger, .Tohn "W. Jenny, Frank J. .Johnston. Robert M. Joseph, Francis M. Kaskiw. Dr. Eugene A. Keckich. Walter J. Kellogg, Frankin E. Kenney. John P. Kiely, John B. Killeen. Edward B. Kitkowski. Z'gmund H. Klohr, Richard J. Koken, Michael R. Kreuz, Peter P. Lee. Maurice W. Lennartz, George G. Lisiakowski. Edwin G-Locher, Simon E. Lottes, Edward P. Loughrey, Charles :ir. Lusardi, Donald L. Lynch. William A. McAveney. Joseph M. ilcCalie, Joseph A. McCaffrey, David S. McCauley, Hugh W. McGee, Francis S. 

McGill, James F. McLaUKhlin. Thomas M. McNeill, John J. Marra, Francis £ . Martin. Francis J.* Martin. William D. Meyer, Frederick J. Mitsch. William H. Monahan. Robert J. Montsomery, Charles £. Moore. Thomas J.. D.D-S. Moran, Martin C. Morawski. Thaddeus J. Murphy, Louis C , Jr. . ilurray, John R. Myers, Herbert G. Naber, Raymond J. Neablt. Robert J. O'Brien. Dr. Allison J. Olczak. Edward A. O'Shaughnessy. John J. Parrish, Rev. Richard T. Penote. John A. Power, James W. Prendergast, Henry J. Prescott, Robert W. Randolph. Clare L. Rapier. Sylvester L. Ran, Eugene G. Reilly. John J. Rigali, Paul A. Riley, Philip A. Ripley, Albert S. Robiscn. William R. Rohrs. George H. Ross, James P. Roxas. Ednardo G. Ryan. Charles M. Ryan. John J. Sargus, Edmund A. Sartoretto, Dr. Paul A, Schaelfner. Victor J. Sexton. Thomas W. Sexton, W. Lawrence • Sheehy. Donald J. Shinners. Dr. Burton M. Slatt, Charles J. Sloan, John F., Jr. Smith. Laurence R. Staelens. Louis O. Stephan, Edmund A. Stewart. William A. Sullivan. John F. Sullivan. John J. Szekely, Ernest A. Torrell, Russell E. Tutela. Dr. Arthur C. Uprichard, James E. Weil. P. Granger Wise, Donald F. Wittenberg. William F. Woods. TIghe E. 
1934 
No. Per 
Con. Cent Amt. Cent. 125 29.3 f2.i:3 Second 107 2S.1 4,054 Third 116 27.2 1.753 Fourth 231 44.S 2.742 
Astone, Victor C. 
Ayers. William D. 
Baker. James "W. 
Banas, Stephan P. 
Beckley, William E. 
Begley, John H. 
Birch. John B., M.D. 
Blaha, Dr. George C-
Blish. Eugene S. 
Bracken. John J. 
Brady, Francis J. 
Brancheau. Raymond J. 
Brias, Leopoldo 
Brobson. Thomas J. 
Brugger, Leo J. 
Bruno, George I. 
Burchell. Harry M. 
Burdick. Gilfred A. 
Burke, John C. 
Burns, Joseph P. 
Butler, Edward J. 
Cahlll. M. Robert 
Carey, Thomas E. 
Carpenter, Lawrence E. 
Carr, John F. 
Carroll. Hugh F. 
Casaretta. Raymond D. Casey. John T. 
Clark. Joseph C. 
Clark. Louis P. * 
Clark. Robert L. 
Clauder, John E. 
Cole. George W-
Collins. William J. 
Conley, Arthur W. 
Connelly. Prank X. 
Coyne, Gilbert H. 
Crego, Francis T. 
Crnkovic. Rudolph C. 
Cronan. Leo J. 
Cronin, William C. 
Crowe, Leo J. 
Cnmiakey. Charles A. Curran, James C Cnrran, Thomas J. Dalton. Thomas F. Daly, Thomas P. David, Thomas C. Degnan. Hryan J. Desnoyers, Harold B>'^ Devlne, John A. Devore, Hugh J. Doerfler, -Arthur F. -^ Donnelly, John F. Dorsey, Dr. John J. Doyle, William £. Dnffey, John N. Dnrkin. Joseph A-Dusch, William M. Dwyer, Joseph E. 
Egan, Rev. Sebastian !«. 
Else, Ralph F. Fagan. James E. Farrell. Hugh J. Feldman, Theodore F, ­Ferrari, Dr. Salvatore T. Fesler, James C. Finkel, Charles A. Fisher, Henry J. Fitzgerald, Hugh F. 
FItzmaurice, Edward J. 
Forrest, James J. 
Fox, R. Michael . 
FransIoU, V. Garvin Froehlich, David J. . Fromm, William H., Jr. Gerarda, Sister Mary, OSF Gierut, Rev. Joseph A. Gilfoil, James M. Gleason, James H. Glennon. Joseph R., Jr. Gorman, John P. Graham, Edwin A. Grimes. Thomas R. Hafner, Edmtmd W. Hagan. John R. Hagan, Lowell L. Hallauer, Edwaad .Wm. Halpin, Robert H. Hanley, John J. Hanratty. Joseph E. Harrington. .Thomas J. Hecklemann, Charles X. Hiegel. Alfred J. Higgins. John E. Hoenninger. John C, Jr. Holland. Emmett J. • Holland. Eugene J. Holroan, Edwin J. Honerkamp. EYancIs "W., Jr. Horrigan. Joseph E. Hughes, Robert W. Hulsking. Charles L.. Jr. Huisking, William W. Humbrecht. Henry J. lacovetti, Hugo A. Kane. Paul R. Kazmlerczak. Bronislaius J. Kelley, Richard E, Kelley, Robert K. Kellogg, Frederic R. Kenefake, Edwin W. Kennedy. J. Walter Kenney. William J. Kiep, Erwin J. Kiple. John E. Kiraly. Julius J. Kolb. Robert J. Kroeger. John W, Laframboise, Paul H. Land, John B. Landers, John H. Ledermann, Charles C. Levins, John p. Lewis, Clyde A. McAniilty, John B. McGahren. Francis J. McKIeman, John S. McLaughlin, John J. McManus, Paul F. McXamara, Donald J. McNamara. ,MoM Rev. 
John M., D.D. McNemey, John L. Maher, John J. Mahoney, Daniel J. Makart, Dr. Carl D. Maloney, George P.. Jr. Manoski, Paul A. Mansfield. Edward F. Marra, Anthony F. . 
Martin. John B. 
ChuB Average Gin $SJ3S . Sabooriber Avenve U.S7 
Martinet, George GL Masterson,- John A. Mauren. Vincent W, 
Meyer. Robert J. 
Meyers. Ifelvln G. Monacelli. Albert H. 
Moran, Edward M. 
Morrison. James R. 
Moscow, Rev. James T. 
Motsett, William J. 

Muellt-r. Charles W. Mullen, John I. Mullen, Richard W. Mul\-ancy. Rev. Brother. 
F.S.C.H. Murphy, Dr. James P-Xary, Frrncis J. Neidzielski, Clemens F. Nicholas, Samuel J. Nortman, Haro' R. O'Brien. Edward J.. Jr. O'Brien, James J. O'Brien, "William F., J-. O'Connell, Dennis J., Jr. O'Connor, John J., Jr. O'Dea. James L. O'Melia. Thomas H. O'Xeill, T^awronce T. Panella, Alfred J. Pavlick. John F.. Jr. Phaneuf, Albert G. Philbin. Edmund P. Piontek, Raymond F. Powell. Vvillinm J.. Jr. Pugliese, Anthony .T. Quinn, Charles F.. Jr. Quinn, Edward D.. M.D. Quirk. Charles R. Reeves, James P. Reeves. Richard G-Reilly, William C. Repine. Joseph C. Rickus, Russell B. Rigente. Maurice J. Roach, Edward J. Roach, Thomas G-Roberts, Clyde A. Robison. F. "Wells Roche, John J-Rockwell. Har\'ey P., Jr. Rogers, Ralph E. Ryan, Joseph E. Saleh. Albert E. Schenkel, Xorbert J-Shanley, Rev. Bernard E Sheridan. William J.. Jr. S'ack. Robert SI. Smith, Byron M. Smith, J. Albert Sporl. Harold D. Straub, "Walter J. Strong, Gene E. Tompkins, J. Austin Turner. Ralph M. Veoneman. William IT.. Jr. Vitt, Francis "Von Boecklin. .-Vugust R. Waldron. T. Howard Walsh, David M.. Jr. Walsh. William J., Jr. Ward, Robert E. "Wiedl, Michael F. "Wiele, Robert F. Wietag, Xorman E. Winter. Francis C-Witucki, Bernard F. Woods, Charles F. Tounpr, Dr. Charles A. Toung, Daniel A., Jr. Zimmerer, Carl E. 
1935 
No. Per Con. Cent 
.\mt 
Cent. 117 25.9 Sl.aio Second 105 23.2 3.G09 Third 105 23.2 1.0.=;,­Fourth 191 39.4 I.SIH 

Annas. John T. Andreoni, Albert J. Argus. Joseph H. Arnheiter. Philip P. Beck. Joseph G. Bembrock. William F. Besinger, John J. Bowdren, James R. Bracken. Edward A. Bried. Dr. Edward A. Brookmeyer. Frederic R. Brown, Walter H. Burkhardt. William G. Campbell. J. Tliomas Canale. F. Sturla Carbine. John D. Carroll. Patrick J. Carton, Victor S. Casazza, William J. Catalane, Bartholomew W. Cifrese. Liborio F. Coen. William M. Colleran. James P., Jr. Conlon, Joseph W. Conrad. Arthur L. Crego. Iiewis C. Cronin. James R. Crowley, Anthony W. Gushing, Jerome J. D'Amora. Alfred F. Dausman. Hurdis D. Davis, Irwin "V. Demetrio, George T. 
.Dillon. Loo M.. Jr. Dineen. Dr. Francis A. Doutbat. Morton Z. Doyle. Gerald P. Dubs. Glenn T. Dudley. Joseph C. Dwyer, James "SI. Erdle, Frederick J. Farrell. Xeil Fautsch. Louis F. Fehr. Charles R-Fergus. Paul A. Fitzpatrick. John P. Flanigan. John C. Jr. Flynn. Thomas W., Jr. Foley. Thomas J., Jr. Forlies. Robert L.. Jr-Eoss, George J-. Jr. Gainer, John J. Gallagher. Thomas F. Gannon. Robert L­Ger\-asio, Emilio J. Glanzner. John L. Groos. John J. Guimont. "William 51. Hackenbrusch. Arnold C. Hargrove. Jordan, T. Heinle, Philip J. Henneberger. Robert L. Hickey, Tliomas D., Jr. 
Class Avenige Gift ? 3.98 Subscriber Average 10.05 
Hoffert, William G. Hogan. Vincent J. Holahan, John F. Jennings. James T. 

•Tordan, John J. Kaley, Joseph J. Keating, Raymond 1. Keefe. V.'illiam C. Kelleher, Cyril A. Kellogg. Armand W. Kilmurry, Edward J. Kirley, Philip H. Klaiber, Robert J.. Jr. Klima, William J. Koppelberger, Francis L. Kranzfelder, Arthur L-Krug, George P. Kuharich, Anthony S. Kunz, John J. Lawton. G- Albert Lee. Rol>ert E., Jr. Link, H. Carl Logan. John H.. Jr. Love, Donald W. Lynch. Edward J. Lynch. George J. Lynch. John E - Jr. Lyons. Redmond J. McDonnell. John P. McGuire. Francis E. ilcLaughlin. Francis E. McMahon. Andrew .1. MacDevitt, James C. Maffei. Andrew R-Maher. Charles E. Maholchic, Paul J. irannion. John J. ilarohn, .Tames A. Melinkovich. George J. Matavovsky. Francis G. Matthewfs. John J. iratthys. Francis W, Montgomery. Charles R. SIoss. William B. Mouros, John S. ilulvaney. .Anthony J. Slurphy. John L. Myron. Joseph B. Xanovic. Joseph P. Xoeson. John H. ..Tr. Xolan, James J., r. Xovak, .John F.. Jr. Cakes, Raymond W. O'Brien. Bernard M. O'Brien, Francis P. O'Brien, George F. O'Hara. Edward L. O'Meara, James P. O'Reilly, Eugene J. Orzechowski, Albert V. O'Shea. Russell J. Otte. William J. Owen, Thomas B. Pendergast, Rol)ert P. Pickard. Clarence J. Proctor, Thomas G. Purcell. Philip J.. Jr. Quigley, Patrick F. Quinian, Harold F. Quirk, John P. R.ivarino, Albert J. Reishman, Vincent J. Rosenstein. Stanley A. Rowan. Edward J. Rogers. Robert F. Rossati. Joseph J. Rouleau, Roland A. Ryan, William F. Saleh. Mitchell J. schill. Charles iL 
Schmidt. William E. Scholz. Dr. Roy O. Schroder. William H.. Jr. Sepe. Thomas A. Seymour. James E. Shaheen. EH J. Shamla, Richard J. Sheahan. Walter F. Shells. James H. Shepard, Harris L. Shields. Robert J. Siekemeyer, Leonard W, Simon, Kurt G. Slatterj-, John A. Sluszka, Sigmund J. Smith. Edward J. Smith. Lawrence W.. Jr. Standish, Thomas A. Stanford. John W.. Jr. Stolze, Paul J. Strehl. Wesley S.. Jr. Thompson. Thomas "W. Tourek. Claude "W. Toussaint, Xorbert F. Van Huisseling. Edw. J. Van Lahr. Robert W. Vitter. Albert L.. Jr. Vukovich, Fnmcis J. "Wackerman, Adrian J. Walsh, Thomas J.. Jr. Weil. Alfred J. Welch. Thomas S. Welsh, Clifford H. West. Samuel E. "Whalen. Roger F. Wbipps. Kenneth Robert Wiggins, Cyril A. Williamson. Charles T. Witchger, Eugene S. 
1936 
No. Per 
Con. Cent .\mt. 
Cent. ICO 3G.0 51.344 
Second 100 22.6 2.1S-; 
Third SO 19.4 1.539 
Fourtli 1S5 45.1 2.037 
Adamson. Thomas E.. Jr. Barl>er, John T. Barber. Joseph C. Barr>-, Robert E. Baum, Arthur A. Baur. Adelbert C, Jr. Becker. Harrj- P. Belden. William H. Belmont. Roman P. Benkert, Edward G. Bernard. Robert F. Binder, George A. Brady, Dr. John C. Bray. John F. Brick. Anthony AV. Burke. James B. Byrne. Conal J. Calvert. Hamilton E. Cannon, George W. Carey. George L. Carideo. Fred J. Casillo. Xicholas S. CaSper, Dr. Xorvin L. Cavanaugh, Robert W. Church. August J. Clarke. Philip J. Conley, Xorman B. Costa, Gregory- S.. Jr. Coyne, John V-Crystal, Louis F. Cummings. Paul W. Curran, Vincent T. Gushing. Leo J. Daley. Edward H. Darcy, William J. DeGarmo. John J. DelGaizo, Carmine L. liendler. Henry E. Devine. Robert B. Dillon. William R. Dizenzo. Patrick A. Donovan. Alan E. 
Donovan. Patrick J. Doyle. Paul J.^ Jr. 
Clas.s Averacre Gitt Subscriber Average 11.01 
Dunn. Edward R. Dutton. James J.. Jr. 
Ellis. William V.. II Ervin. Robert F. Farrell, William J. Federer. Frank X. Fieweger. AVilliam H. Fislier. Patrick J. 
FJtzmaurice. Joseph L. Fitzsimons. Charles S. Flanner>\ William E. 
Fox. James W. 
Fox, Joseph P. 

Gabriel, Dr. Louis T., Jr. Gillespie, V.'illiam F. Glcason. John S., Jr. Glenn, James J. Goldman. Irwin L. Gorman. Thomas F. Gottsacker. William A. Grady, Thomas H. Green. Herman W. Guamieri. Paul A. Hakes, James R. Hammer. Rev. Edmond F. Hauser. Harold J. Hellmuth, Andrew L. Herrly, Ra>Tnond A. Hess. Lawrence G. Hickey, D. John. Ill Hmurcik, Joseph P. Hoban. John J. Hofschneider. Dr. Loo J. Hopkins. John W. Huber, Arthur F. Hufnagel. Andrew D. Ireland. George iL Jacobs, William L.. Jr. JefTors. Howard F. Jones, W. Lawrenci." .Joyce. Francis M. Kalczynski, Daniel F. Kinman. Dr. Lindell M. Kirby,. James H. Kirsch. John W. Krusiec. Edward F. Kubik. Francis J. Kumler. Joseph E. Langc. Louis A. Laws, Dr. Kenneth F. Layden, Francis L. Lear>-, Matthew G., Jr. Loritsch. John A. Lovell, Dale E. McAuiiffe. Robert A. McCormack, Donnell J. ilcFarlane. Leo P. iMcXeill. Frodolin S. MacDonahl. Joseph V. MacDonald. Robert J. MacDonald. Dr. William C. Mahar. James A., Jr. Maher. James V. Malloy, Eugene F. Manning, Robert A. Mansfield. Joseph F. Martin. Arthur R. Sleagher, Thomas .T. ^lilton. George E. Moran, John J. Moriarity, George J. Moty. Gilbert R-Muellman, John J. Mulholland. Arthur J.. Jr. Murphy, Francis J., Ill Jlurphy, Dr. George E. Murphy, Thomas J. Murray, Dr. Francis J. Xeilson, Clifford C. Xolan, James A., Jr. Xorton, John "W. Odenbach, John M. O'Connor, ilichael J. O'Connor, William il. O'Koefe, James C. O'lfalloy. John G. O'TooIe, Lawrence J. Ott, J. Xorbert Pieroni, Charles iL Fillers, Dale G. Pilney, Andrew J. Ponzevic, Joseph J. Prendergast, Joseph P. Quinian, William L., Jr. Quinn, James J. Ratigan. Joseph E. Rol>inson. John J. Rocca, Julius P. Robol. Alfred H., Jr. Rubeck, Rev. Benedict L„ 
OFilC Rubly, Paul E. Ryan. John J. Schmidt, Joseph W. Schmidt, Richard A. Schmuhl. William J. Sbambleau, Xorman D. Sherry, James J., Jr. Sibr, Lawrence F. Smith. Edward C, Jr. Smith, William J. Snooks, Richard V.'. Sullivan, Edward T. Sulivan, James D. Suth, Emerj- W. Szymanski. Rev. Edgar S.. 
C.S.C. Tancredi. Xicholas J. Thurm, Wayne E. Tobin. Eugene E. Tofuri. Paschal A. Varneau, Arthur L. Vesey, George "W., Jr. Viviano. Peter P. Voorde, Edward F. Walker. John W. Wall. Hugh E., Jr. Walsh. William A., Jr. Weber. Fred C, Jr. 
Wentworth. George R. Whitaker. John F. White, William H. Wolf. George M. Wynn, John W. Zdanowicz. John F. 
1937  
No.  Per  
Con.  Cent  Amt.  
Cent.  lOS  22.S  SS92  
Second  105  22.2  1.170  
Third  94  19.9  1.047  
Fourtli  214  47.0  2,33S  

Aoiller. Gerard J. Alaman. Louis G. Baldwin. Harrj' A. Barbush, Francis C. Bates, Dr. George X. Bayer. Martin E. Bernard. Ralph L. Bosanceney, Girard E. Brassell, John E. Brias, Enrique E. Bride, Allan F. Broderick. John D. Brown. Clifford F. Browne. William J-Burch. Raymond 51. Burnett. Dr. Lawrence F-Byrne. William J. Cackley. John X. Cardinal. Ralph M-Carroll. Francis A. Cassone. Dr. Peter G. Cavanaugii. John J. Claeys. Jerome C. Jr. Conway, Stephen J. Coy. Ciiarles I. Craig. Dr. Leonard B. Cronin. Arthur D., Jr. Crotty. Edward J. Crotty, Joseph W. Cullinan, Daniel J. Curran, Michael P. Cusack. Howard C. Dahill, Edward J. D.anbom. Laurence E. Darcy. John F. Paughton, Francis M. Davey, Jerome M. DeCoteau, Roland E. Delaney. Richard H. Delker, Thomas C. DiLeo, Sinatro W. Donnelly. Bernard P. Dooley. William F. Dorgan, Joseph T. Druecker. Harold J. Ducey, T. Robert Duffy. Charles W. Uwyer. James B. English. Rev. Joseph R.. 
M.M. Fallon. William H. Fehlig. Louis C, Finn. Daniel R. Fischer. Edward W. Pitzpatrick. John J., Jr. Fitzpatrick, William J. Flood. Dr. Richard E. Foley. Frank J. Foley, William R., Jr. Ford, John F. 
Class AveniBe Gift § .\'21 Subscriber Average 10.93 
Fox, Edward A. Franscati, Francis P. Froning. J. Fendall Gallagher, Francis J. Cast, Frederick C. Genagel, John A. Gillespie. Basil G. Gloudemans. .\Ivin G. Goldsmith. Edmund P. Gomber, William J. Gorman, Thomas A. Gregory, Arthur C. Grogan. Robert L. Hack, James G. Haines, Francis X. Hanning. Donald G. Hardart, Dr. Francis J., Jr. Hartnett, Vincent V.'. Heatherman, K. Joseph Heinemann, Harold E. Hennessy. Donald A, Hickey. Louis J. HoUenbach. Louis J.. Jr. Hosterman, Philippe T. Hoyt. Edward J. Hughes, Tliomas J. Huisking, Edward P. Hurley, John F. 
10 

llutor, Albert H. 
Johnen, Peter J. 
Jordan, "William V. 
Kalman, C. Joseph 
Kefller, Bernard J. 
Keliy, Francis P. 
Kelly. John E.. Jr. 
Kennedy, WilUam J, 
Kenyon. Herbert J-
Kin^, John E. 
Kin?. Timothy R. 
Kirk, Wilfred B. 
Koehler, Harry P. 
Kunsch, Rev. •Willi" m C. 
Lattimer. Kenneth C. 
Lechner, John J. 
Levi, James H. 
Lieser, Dr. William A. 
Lin?, Eugene P. 
Lonergan, Mark A. 
McAuliffe. John H.. Jr. 
lEcCann, Justin C. 
McCarty. John W. 
ircClain, Charles R. 
McCoola. Vincent J. 
SIcGowan, Clement L. 
McGrath, Raymond K. 
McGuire, Prancis T. 
ilclnemy, Matthew R. 
^Iclntosh, Joseph K. 
arcKenna, John F. 
SlcMahon, Joseph P. 
ilcXally, Joseph C-
Manning-, John J. 
Marbach, John C. 
Marley, Dr. Harold V. 
ilarr, James K. 
Marty, Bernard A. 
Meyers, Charles P. 
Mihm, Clifford H. 
Miller, Floyd Pmn?:s 
Miller, Stephen 0. 
Mix, irelville B. 
Moore, Joseph S. 
Jloskowitz, iforris L. 
Mueller, Paul F. 
Jturdock, Howard D. 
Murphy. James G. 
Murphy, Vincent I. 
Myers, William G. 
Xeaher, Edward R. 
Xickol, Robert W. 
Xienabor, Walter J. 
Niczer, Bernard M. 
O'Boyle, Anthony P. 
O'Connor, Prancis C. 
O'Donnell, James T. 
O'Hara, James F. 
O'Neill, Joseph I. 
Owens, Dr. Graham J. 
Page. Joseph V. 
Phillips, Dr. John B. 
Pierce, Harrison J. 
Pisaturb, Dr. Orlando J. 
Pojman, Henry P. 
Powers, John M.. Jr. 
Purcell. Louis il. 
Purtili. Rev. Jeremiah T., SSE 
Puryear. Robert E. 
Putnam, John B. 
Quinn, Joseph P.. Jr. 
Quinn, Maurice P. 
Quirk, William E. 
Reardon, Edward J. 
Reidy, Prancis J. 
Reilly, Bernard F. 

Reilly, Francis J. 
Richardson, Glenn W. 
Roark, Dr. S. Paul 
Roggenstein, Charles G. 
Saffa. William P. 
Salerno, Nicholas J. 
Schafer, A. Maurice 
Soberer, Benjamin M. 
Schiavone, Frank A. 
Schilling,. Joseph V. 
Schmelzle, Robert J. 
Schneider, Rev. Eilwn J. 
Schwartz. Albert J. 
Sconfietti, C Domld 
Shapero, James B. 
Sharp, William .T.. Jr. 
Shea. William S. 
Sheehan, John H. 
Shields. Edward Jf. 
Sloan. Alexander L. 
Smith, Albert J., Jr. 
Smith, Richard S. 
Smith. William R. 
Stolich. Lloyd R. 
Sullivan, Daniel L. 
Swoyer, Harry S. 
Thomas, Robert J. 
Tiernan. Luke J. 
Traynor, Dr. Francis W. 
Trousdale, Robert V. 
Troy, Walter C-
Ullmann. John C. 
Venderley, Paul L. 
Waldron, James A. 
Weakley. Harry JI. 
Wilke, Robert E. 
Wojcihovski. V'ctcr j
Wolter, Earl P. 
Tazaki, Paul M. 
1938 
No. Per 

Con. .Cent Amt. Cent. 16l> 30.0 ?2.473 Second IGG 30.0 1.751 Third . 112 19.S 1,5C4 Fourtll 231 4S.0 3,16S 
Ander&on, Paul H. Anton. John F. Bauer, Burnett C. Bauer. John L., Jr. Bayer. Philip J. Bcaudway. James E. Bernard. Edgar B. Bilger, Howard D. Blunt, James W. Bond, John A. Bowes, Richard J. Boyle. Daniel E. Boyle, Edward L., Jr. Boyle. James E. Boyle, Leo R. Braddock. John P. Brennan. Edward J. Brosius, Charles T. Brower. Ployd, E. Brj'an. Robert J. Buckley. John L. Callahan, Charles M. Callahan, Joseph A. Callahan. Thomas H. Campbell, Joseph F. Carey. Patrick J. Carney. Richard A. Carson, James P. Cassedy. Rev. Elwood E. Ciecka. Rev. Joseph P.. 
C-S.C. 
Clark, Joseph C. 
Cleary, John F. 

Cleari*, Rev. Thomas K. 
Clifford. John F. 

Cochran. Daniel W. 
Condon, Edward J. 
Connor, John C. 

Cosgrove. Francis P. 
Cottingham. John C. 
Cour. William J. . Crisci, Custode A.' 

Crollard. Frederick M.. Jr. 
Currier, Donald P. 
Dark, Melville E. 

Danahy, Richard T. 
DeBrienza, Amerigo W. 
Delaney, Frank J., Jr. 
Doozan. Carl W. 
Doyle. John J. 
Dreiling. J. Alvin 
Drislane, James J. 
Drolla. F, Joseph 

Duggan. W. Redman 
Class Avemice Gift ? 6.56 Subscriber Areruffe 13 71 
Duncan. J. Walter, Jr. Eby, Lawrence T. Elder, Thomas J. Fiedler, Raj-niond E. Fish, William J. Fish wick. Edward H. FitzGerald. Russell E. Fitzgerald. Thomas M., Jr. Fitzpatrick, George F. Flanagan, Jolin E. Planigan. Edward T. Flynn, Rev. Bernard P. Flynn. Thomas P. Portino, Paul P. Fox. Harr>- P. Pox, Louis A. Poy, Thomas P. Praser, C. Glynn Preody, John I. Gallagher, Charles M. Gallin. William H. Gibbs. Daniel S. Giragi, Louis J. Gomez, Rev. Anthony M. Gorman. Jolm J.. Jr. Graves. Thomas J. Hackman, Robert H. Hager. Edward C. Haggar, Edmond R. Hardart. Thomas R. Harris. Walter J. Head, John 1. Hickey. Edward T. Hoene. Philip G. Hogan, Edward P. Holtz. Robert F. Howard, George C. Hughes. Paul C. Hughes. Thomas M. Irwin. Carl F, Jehle. John L. Johnson. George W. Kane, AV. Jerome Kavanaugh, Edward S. 
Kaveny, William F. Keegiin. Gregg W. Keenan, George E.. Jr. . Kelley, Charles J. Kelley, John R. Kennedy, ^laurice J-Kenvin, George D. Kesicke, Prancis E. Kilrain. Edwin T. Kinnealey. Thomas P. Kiszeli. Paul J. Klise, John J. Knusman. Theodore J-Kolp. Charles A.. Jr. Kovzelove, Alexander S. Kowalski. Edmund S. Kuharich Joseph L-Kull, G. James Lacey. John W. Larwood. Franklin E. Leadbetter, John Leahy. Paul J.. Jr. Ledvina, Jerome P. LeMire. Robert E. Leonard, Robert P. Longstreth, Raymond E. Lungren, John C. ilcCarthy. William P. McKendry. John C. Mackin. Henry J., Jr. Magee, Jerome B. ^lagee, Robert P. JIalioney, John P. Mathey. William J. rHattingly. Edward J. May, Francis H., Jr. Mazanec, Robert J. Mehring. Joseph VT., Jr. 
Mercado, Victor R. Monacelli, "Walter J, Moore. Edward J. iforrow. Charles G. Moulder. John S. ilulhern, James W. Mullen, Robert J. Mullen, Robert V. Murphy. Daniel J. ilurphy, James M. ilurrin, Jolm. IV Nowak. Paul T. O'Brien. Roliert L. O'Connor, John C. O'Donnell. John B. O'Laughlin, Francis J. Osbom. Charles P., Jr. Partyka. Stanley J. Peterson, Bernard P. Plouff, John P. Poo re, John N. Prusha. Francis R. Pupils. Andrew J. Quinlan, Thomas P. Race. Rev. A. Joseph Radigan. Tliomas J. Reardon. B. Scott. Jr. Reilley, James M. Reynolds. Clark L. Rooney, Thomas E. Rowe, Joseph K. Ruetz, Joseph H, Ruge, Emil V. Scannell, Richard J. Schaefer, Prancis X. Schaefer, Gerard G. Schaub, Paul J. Scherer. Otto E. Schlaudecker. George F. Schloemer, Bertrand A. Schmitz, John G. Sherwood. Emer>- A. Siepletowski. Frederick J. Simon, John D. Skoglund, Leonard H.. Jr. Smith. Donald H. Sokerka. Andrew R. Solon. Paustin J., Jr. Stillisano. Patrick J. Sullivan. Charles Sullivan. George R. Sullivan. James P. Sweeney. Charles A. Tallman, Clifford P. Tangney. John P. Tliaringer. Robert N. Thomas. Jolm D. Thulis. John J. Tobin. John L. Tobin, John R.. Jr. Trefzer. Theodore W. Tunney, Timothy W. Uniacke, Edward A. Valetich, Prancis F. Vance, Casimer E. Vaslett, Eugene P. Ward. John S. Wassell. Bernard-J. Waters, John R., Jr. "Weaver, Rex E. Weber, Herbert I. Webster, Charles R. Welirle, Joseph J. Welsh. Charles E. Williams, Harold A. Winter. Prancis J. Woerner. William J. Wrape. H. Elward 

Zoss, Abraham O. Zoss. Oscar J. 
1939 
No. Per Con. Cent Amt. 
Cent. 230 38.0 J1.759 Second 163 26.9 1,716 Third 154 2S.4 1.658 Fourth 248 44.3 2,482 
Ahern, William P-
Amrhein, Nicholas C. 
Angela. Sister Helen 
Armel, Thomas X. 
Baltes, John W. 
Barnett, Thomas C. 
Beinor, Joseph E. 
Bernard, Joseph J-
Binkowski. Benedict P. 
Bolz, Robert C. 
Bossort. Thomas R., Jr. 
Bossu, August F. 
Bradley, Francis X. 
Broscoe, Edward M. 
Brown. Albert L. 
Bulger. Thomas R. 
Burkholder, Marion R. 
Callaghan, John A. 
Campbell, George R. 
Carmody. Robert E. 
Carroll. E. Joseph 
Cella. John B. 
Clouse, Michael P.. Jr. 
Coffey. James J. 
Colgan, Charles J. 
Collins. John T. 
Condon. William P. 
Corcoran. Joseph M. 
Crowe. Emmett H. 
Curley. Daniel F. 
Dahar. Philip G. 
DaPra. Luino L. 
Deale, Valentine B. 
DeCoursey. Vincent W. 
Derengoski. Robert A. 
De^Vald. Pan! C-
Dieckelman. Robert H. 
Digby. Rev. Frederick J.. 
Dineen, Dennis L. 
Dollard. Vincent E. 
Donovan, Paul M. 
Dougherty, James J., Jr. 
Doyle. John T. 
Doyle, Lawrence A. 
Dray. Joseph P. 
Dreiling. Virgil T. 
Duffey. Donald K. 
Duffy, Bernard T. 
Dunn, James H., Jr. 
Punn, Joseph M. 
Pagan. Bernard J-
Falsioni. Daniel P. 
Farrington. Robert J. 
Pavero, M. Domenic 
Feeney, Bernard J. 
Peiker, Andrew J. 
Felts. Allen F, 
Perence. John A., Jr. 
Ferzacca, Vincent J. 
Planigan, Charles J. 
Poster. Harvey G. 
Frank, Maurice N. 
Prericks. Theodore P-
Gaglione. Francis J. 
Gallagher, John C. 
Garab. Richard J. 
Gartland, Francis X.. Jr. 
Gelber. David A. 
George. Prancis X. 
Class ATense Gift « 4.46 
Snbifriber Avcrace 19.01 Gerend, Walter J. 
Geyer, George E. 
Gillespie. Thomas G., Jr. 
Gilmour. John V., Jr. 
Gottsacker. Harold A. 
Grimn, John J., Jr. 
Gutowski, John Z. 
Hagerty. John M. 
Haithcock, George. L. . 
Hall. Leo E. 
21 anion, Kyron .W. 
Hannan. Joseph E. 
Harrington, Joseph H. 
Hayes, Francis J. 
Herrlck. WilUam R. 
Heywood. Robert B. 
Hiegel. Joseph J. 
Higby. Kenneth E.. Jr. 
Hilbert. Joseph M. 
Hildebrandt. Hugo J. 
Hoag, Robert J., Jr. 
Hogan. Thomas B. 
Honerkamp. Frederick W. Jr. 
Huether. Robert W. 
Hughes, Edwin J., Jr. 
Hunt, Russell -L. 
Jaxthetmer. John'C. 
Johnson, James A. 
Kaczmarek. Jerome J. 
Kane. Raymond A.­
Hell. Paul E. 
Kelly, Prancis B-
Kelly, Francis R. 
Kennedy, Robert D. 
Kiefer. Alfred O. 
Kinnealey. Joseph F. 
Kiing. Ernest P. 
Klister. Rev. Irvinp F -
Kochanowski. Eugene E. 
Kovalcik. George J. 
Kristan, Julias R. 
Kvasnak. Cornelius J, 
Kvatsak, Robert J. 
I^croix. Lucien J. 
Lanigan. Francis J. 
Lauck. Francis J. 
LaVigne. Ernest F. 
Leahy, Maurice F. 
Lewis. Joseph B. 
Long. William P. 
Longhi, Edward J. 
Lynaugh. John P. 
McArdle, Paul J. 
McAuliffe. John E. 
McDermott, Joseph E. 
McDonald. Joseph L.. Jr. 
McEneamey. Alfred B. 
McGoIdrick. James G. 
McGovern, John J. 
McGuiness, John L. 
McGuire.' John A. 
McGuire. Michael J. 
McKay. Richard V.. Jr. 
McVinney, Rev. Russell J.. 
Maloney. Philip J. 
Mann. James E. 
Martin. L. Peter 
Martin, Roland A. 
Mastriana, Francis A. 
Mastropletro. Francis-J". .-— 
Meagher. Nicholas J.. Jr. 
Mee. Fenton J. 
ilerkle. ilatthew H. 
Meskiil. David T. 
ileyer. James G. 
Miller. John J. 
Mitchell, Mark J. 
Moorman. Joseph B.. Jr. 
Morris, George B. " 
Morrison. Paul E. 
Murphy, Daniel M. 
Murray, William S. 
Xagel, Carl J. 
Xeill, Thomas P. 
Neumann. George J. 
Norton, Charles M. 
O'Hara. John P. 
O'Laughlin, Francis J. 
O'Melia. Richard J. 
O'Xell, George M.. Jr. 
Ortale. Rol>ert M. 
O'Shea, Patrick R. 
Ottmer. Louis S. 
Paries. Francis R. 
Payne, Francis M., Jr. 
Petroshius, Lawrence J. 
Pfaff, Prancis R. 
Piedmont. William L. 
Plain, George P., Jr. 
Quinn. James L., Jr. 
Quinn, Joseph M. 
Raaf. James J. 
Hadelet. Louis A. 
Reardon. Thomas M. 
Reedy, Charles S. 
Reilly, Robert M. 
Reppenhagen, Prancis A.. HI 
Respondek, Alphonse M. 
Rice. J. Gregory 
Ricke. William H. 
Riley^ Charles R. 
Rizzi. A. Joseph 
Rocap, James E. 
Roche. Stewart J. 
Ryan. Daniel J. 
Ryan. Joseph P. 
Sabo. Carl L. 
Sadowski. Chester P. 
Sandrock. Peter P. 
Scarlata. Salvatore P. 
Schirf. Robert F-
Schleck. Raymond M.. Jr. 
Schrader. Walter L. 
Schramm, Robert P. 
Schriner, Thomas J. ^ 
Schwartzel. Gerard A. • 
Sebastian, Brother (Welsh) 
Sheppard, Robert A.. Jr. 
Short, Walter J. 
Simon. J. Frederick. Jr.. 
Slack, Edmund J. ' 
Sporor. John J. 
Stack. Edward F. 
Streator. Charles H. 
Stroh. Edwerd C. 
Stubblefield. Edward M. 
Sullivan, Bernard J. 
Sullivan. John D. 
Sullivan. John P. 
Sullivan. Joseph J. . 
11 

Sullivan. Joseph P., Jr. Draj% Walter L. McKenna, William S. Weilbacher, Charles O. Duckworth, Gene W. 
Thoen, Richard G. Driscoll. Donald B. McKcon, Joseph M. Whttford, Joseph C. Dunham. William J. 
Tobin, Edward M. Driscoll. Francis S. McMorrow, George J. Wicks, Dr. William R. Essick, James H. 
Tonsmeire, Julian C. Drumgould, J. William McQueen, James R. Wilkinson, John J. Fallon, Robert J. 
Tormey, James J. Duffy. Thomas J. McRoberts, James S. Willmann, John B. Farrell, Eugene R. 
Trentacoste, Salvatore P. Eilers, Bernard J. McVay. William P. Wilson, Georee T. Fezzi, George B-, Jr. 
Trousdale, Roderick L. Ellis, John D. Mack, John E.  John E.  W. 
Wilson, Fegan, Walter Tally, Francis X. 
Else, John G. Maher, Edward J., Jr. Wltchger, Robert W. Fenlon, Edward E. 
Tully, Paul C-Engel, Henrj* K-Mangano, Joseph A. Witte, F. Richard . Perraro, Stephen P. 
Tuson, W. Robert Ephgrave, Charles W-Marker, Thomas p. Worley, Lloyd P. Pishburne, Benjamin P. 
Volberding, A- Clark Ernst, Francis J. Martin, John J. Wurtzebach, Edward P. Fislier, John A. 
Von Hoene, Edwin A. Evans, George E., Jr. JIasterson. Bernard J. Toungr, Eldred E. Fogarty, Richard L. 
"Walker, Thomas A., Jr. Facteau, Leo G. Matthews. Edward E. Young, John P. 
Fowler, Frederic E. 

"Weber. John H. Fallon. Rev. Richard L. Meaney, John W. Zaller. Raymond C. Frericks. Alfred J-
Weigel. Stanley J. Feig, Charles M. Meconi, Louis P. Zegiob, Dr. Charles G. Gagan, W^tlliam D. 
"Weiler, John F. Fernoding. C.  George R.  D. 
 John Meeker. Gainer, Charles "Wessels. John E. Ferneding, Thomas C. ilenneg, Paul E. Gaither, John P. 
Wheeler. John B., Jr. Finneran, John C. Metzger, Richard A. 1941 Gallagher, Charles R., Jr-AVliite, Charles E. Fish. Robert G. 
Metzler, James P. Gartland, James 31. Wilson, Andrew F. Flanagan, John C. Miholich. Ferdinand E., Jr. Gar^'ey, Joseph L. Woodka. Chester W. Flood, Paul J. Milford. George J-
Garvey, Joseph R." Toungr, James A. Flynn, Gerald J. Miltner, Francis H. Gar\-ey, William J., Jr. . 
No. Per Con. Cent Amt. 
Zerbe, Earl M. Flynn, Dr. John B. Minogue. Thomas J. Gero, John B. 
Cent. 273 40.4 ?6.915 
Ziegler. Thomas T. Ford, Thomas P. Monahan, Thomas F. Gerra, Ralph A. 
Second 239 34.7 8,212 
Zinn. Eugene R. Foskett. Donald A. Montedonico, James H. Gillespie, Chares J. 
Third 212 30.8 2,851 Fourth 348 3C.3 32.323 
Fox. David J. Mooney, Alan B. Glenn, William M. 
Francoeur, Adrien P. Moran, John C Conner, James A. 
Frost, Dr. Robert J, Morris, Mize Gottron, Harrj* P.. Jr. Frye, Herbert J. Morrison, Paul M. Grace, Michael P. 1940 GallUand. Donald R. Morrissey, Gerald E. Alexander, Edward R. Grady, Thomas P. Gavan, John D. Morrissey, William J. Alfs, George W. Graham, Edward A. 
Gentle, Anthony F. Mulqueen, Joseph H. • Altman, Arnold D. Greene, Charles E.. Jr. No. Per Gervve, Joseph .T.. Jr. Murphy, Dr. Francis J. Altman, Herman S. Grobmyer, ilaj. John C-Con. Cent Amt Gillon, Augus 51. Xadolski, Francis J. Apone, Louis W. 
(deceased) Cent. 2G7 3S.4 52.997 Gilrane. John J. Xolan, Robert J. Aselage, John B. 

Guiltinan, Joseph P. 

Second 23S 34.2 3.243 Gleason, Neal J. N^oonan, Maurice E. Aubrey, Glenn P. 
Guiney, John J. 

Third 195 2S.1 2.259 Gonring. Matthew X.. Jr. Xorbert, Brother, C.F.X. Aylward, James P., Jr. 
Gwinn, Samuel AV., Jr. 

Fourth 333 49.7 3.728 Gorman, Joseph R. Xorris, Harrj- L, Bagan, Earl D. 
Hammer, Alfred J., Jr. 

Grisanti, Robert C. O'Brien, John J-Bairley, Roy J. 
Hanly, Edward J.. Jr. 

Gruenfelder, ilarcus A. O'Connor, Joseph E. Bakeman. James R. 
Hannigan. James J.. Jr. 

Gschwend. Paul J.. II O'Donneli. Edward J. Ball. Richard E. 
Albert, Francis J., Jr. Hannon, John "W. 
Guindon, Francis X. 0*DonnelI, Hugh K. Barres, Harold J. 
Allega, Rev. Francis R-Harrison, Rev. John G. 
Habecker. Edward E. O'Hare. William G.. Jr. Barry, John "W. 
Allen, Raymond R. Har\'ey, Edmund E. 
Hackman. Paul W. O'Xeill. Robert F. Bartl, Robert L. 
Anderson, Edgar H. Hawes, William R. 
Haggerty, George G. Paterno, Dr. Charles F. Batt. Richard A. 
Armitage, Henry G-Hayes. John "W. 
Hall. Burt J. Penrose, George C Baum, William A. Jr. 
Aubrey, Edward C. Heckler, Xorman B. 
Halpin. William F. Peterson, Leroy E. Behe. Francis J. 
Aubrey, Francis Y. Hengel, Edward D. 
Hannan, D. Edward. Jr. Philpott. Thomas M. Belden. Richard P. 
Barber. Robert A, Henslce, Edward B., Jr. 
Hart, Joseph F. Pindar, John A. Belladonna. Roland L. 
Barrett, James E. Hickey. Gerald A. 
Hartzor, .Joseph F. Plummer, James W. Benedosso, Anthony A. 
Baumert, Francis X. Holland, John A. 
Hayes, John J. Porbock, J. George Bernard, Anthony M. 
Beaudine. Robert J. Hopkins, Francis J. 
Hellmuth. Paul F. Potenziani, Anthony P. Blatz. Valentin, IV 
Becker, George W. Hughes, Henry G. 
Henebry. Xorbert F. Poulin, John G. Bogan. William J. 
Bercik. Julius W. Hughes, Homer P. 
Hennessy, Edward J., Jr. Pnitt. Edward A. Boss. Donald A. 
Bergan, Rev. Cornelius P. Humby, Arthur J. 
Hennessy, Joseph F. Quinn. Carl E. Boyle, John L. 
Bernard. David J-Hurst, Donald R. 
Hicinbothem, John E. Quinn, Christopher J. Boyle, Robert W. 
Bever. Bro. La-vrence. O-P. Iliff, Robert E. 
Hogan. William J. Quinn. Carl E. Bozzo. Michael T. 
Biagi, Francis W. 

Hooffstetter, Robert T. Reardon, Joseph P. Bracken, Lawrence H. 
Boisvert, Harold V. 

Horn. George T. Reddy, John J. Braun, William A. 
Bolchoz, William M. 

Hosty. Thomas E.. Jr. Reilly, Peter J. Brennan, John C Class Averace Gift $53.30 
Borda, Henrj- P. 

Huff, Edward G. Redmond. Edward J. Brennan, Dr. Walter J. Subscriber Average 92.SS 
Borgman. Paul A, 

Hunthausen, Xorvall il. Reilly, Louis J. Brewer, Dr. Edward T. 
Bourke. Norman F. 

Hushok, Daniel J. Robinett, Robert W. Brockman, Bernard X. Jr. 
Bowler, Harold H. 

Hutchons. Cliarlcs K.. Jr-Rogers. Henry X. Brodbeck, W^alter F. 
Brady, James R. 

Imholz, Dr. Berchnian J., Rogers, James J. Broderick, Daniel T.. Jr. Ingwersen. Martin It. 
Brennan, J. Robert •lordan, Cecil E. Rogers, John F. (deceased) Broussard. Joseph E. Jehring, Robert B. 

Brennan. Thomas J. 
Johnson. Jolin P. 

Joyce. John J. Rosbach, Philip P.. Jr. Brown. G. Wilmott Brennan, Thomas "V. 
Joyce, William L. Ryan, Vincent J. Brownfield Paul W. Joyce, John L. 
Brodberger, John B., Jr. 

Julian. John D. Sackley, Donald J. Brugger, James J, Judge, Thomas G. 
Broderick. John M. 

Kaczmarek. Richard C-Saegert. Gerald Bul>er, Dr. Luther W. Kamm, Elmer J. 
Brown. James G-

Kamm, Wilber A. Saeli, Amadeo B. Buckler, Joseph L. Kane, John J. 
Browning. John T. 

Karr, George R. • Saitta, Joseph J. Buckley. Clifford G. Kegelmayer, Carl J. 
Burke, Robert L. 

Karr, James J. Sandmaier. Philip J., Jr. Buddy, Edward O-Kehres, Paul G. 
Burns. Joseph F.. Jr. 

Keach, Leroy J., Jr. Sanford, Robert G. Buenger William E. Keleher, Edwin W. 
Burns, William G-Keen. E. Clark Santini, Leo A-Burke, John E. Kelleher, William A., Jr. 
Callan, Alfred J., Jr. 
Kelley, Daniel A. 

Kelleher. Dr. John C. Savord. John E. Burns, Lawrence A. 
Canale. Philip M., Jr. 

Kelly, Charles E. Schmid, Thomas B. Burns. Robert E.. Jr. Kelly, Edward J. 
Cannon, W^lliam J-Kelly, Raymond J., Jr. 

Kelly, John F. Schmit, Robert P. Burns, William J. 
Carlueci. Dr. Joseph P.. 

Kennedy, Francis B., Jr. Carney, John C. Kelsey, Charles M. Schroeter. Edward H. Carberry, James J. Kennedy. Hon. Joseph P. 
Kelly, James P. Schultz, Robert J. Byrnes Matthew S. 
Casper, James J. 

Kenny, James N. Sexton, Gerald A. Carbine, William C. Jr. Kerger, Adolph E. 
Casper, James T. Kerr. William H. Shea, George X. Carroll Thomas J. Kerrigan, J. Richard 
Cawloy, James "V-Kerwin, William F., Jr. Shea. John D. Carson, Edward H. Kerwin, James P. 

Cenni, Dr. Louis J.. Jr. Cnrty, Thomas F. Korth, Howard J., Jr. 
Kesing, Albert K. Sheehan, Clarence T. 
Chamberlain, Robert V. 

King, Russell X. Shields, Thomas W. Cassidy, T. Donald Kuhn, Adrian A. 
Chaput, Elmer P. 

Klier, Eugene P. Shiely, James P. Cattie, Joseph P. Kuntz. William J. (killed i:i Cintron, Juan E. 
Kmiecik. Thaddeus S. Shoemaker, Robert E. Clark, William P. action) 
Ciolino, Francis V., Jr. 

Knaus. Joseph A, Skelly, Joseph W-Clarke, Stephen R-Lang, James O-Cleary, wniliam P. 
Koss, Aloysius J. Small. William J. Clemens, Richard A. 
Larkin, Thomas J. 
Cole, John C-. 

Smith, Terence J-Comins, Francis H. 
Larson, John W. 
Collins, Henry D. 

Sommerer, Edwin H., Jr. • Conley James A, Lauerman. Francis J. 
Connelly. Herbert J. 

Sotak, Joseph E., Jr. Connor, Thomas H. Lawler, Joseph V. 
Coquillard. Alexis E., Jr, Coppinger, John M. 

Sprafke. David AV. Lcntz. Frederick E. Coughlin, John D. Class Average Gift 9 5M>6 Steffaniak, Richard J. Corbett, James J. Leonard. Robert J. Crane. Hubert T. Subscriber Average 11.20 Stevenson, Harry, Jr. Corcoran, John B. Link, Francis C. 
Costello, George K. 

Sullivan, Daniel J. Corey, Edgar A. Lopardo, Florenz V. 
Crawford. Bernard K. 
Crumley, Thomas F. 

Sullivan, Floyd J. Costello, George L-McCanna, Dr. Philip R. 
Sulli\-an, James H. Cotter. "William E., Jr. 
McC^arthy, Daniel E. 

Cullather, James L. Kuhlmann, John H. 
Sullivan Robert E. Cronin. Walter J. McCarthy, James J. 
Cushing, Bernard J. LaugliUn. Daniel F. 
Sullivan, Robert G. Crowley, William R. McDonnell, John N. 
Dalton. Edmund G. Lavelle. Anthonj' E. 
Currigan. Thomas G. 
Sullivan. William D. McDonough. Francis J. 
Daner, James C, Lawrence. Robert H. 
Swanser. Bernard A. Daly. AVilliam T. McDowell, David L. 
Darrouzet, John L. Leahy, Thomas J. 

Sweitzer, Walter A., Jr. DeLay, Eugene E. McGovern, James P. 
Daugherty, Philip V. Leibtn, Robert A. 

Szumachowski. Stephen A. Delia, Thomas A. McGowan, William C. 
DeFrajico. Joseph F. Lenihan, Paul C. 

Thesing, Joseph R. Del Zoppo, Albert J. McGrath, James H. 
Del Gaizo. Joseph P. Leonas, Theodore J. Dell, Charles E. LePage. J. Roch, Jr. 
Thomas, William S. Dereume, August J. McGroder, Francis J. 
Tierney, Thomas il. De Simon, Anthony E. 
McHugh, Edward C, Jr. 

Devine, Samuel L. LeStrangc. Thomas A. 
Tobin. "William P. Dillon, Charles- E. 
McKelvy, Francis D. Dolce, Russell J. Lingenfelder, Charles E. 
Dillon, William R. Letclier, J. Clifford Tracey, Edward J. Dixon, Thomas E. Maddalena, Arthur D., Jr. 
Tucker. William H., Jr. Doll. Jesse L. Blago. Bernard A. 
Doll. Jesse L. Liston, Thomas P. 

Urbanski, Louis A. Dominic, William W. Maher, Joseph G. 
Donoghue, James V. Lougherj-, Robert J. 
Varga, James A. Dora, Ricnard J.  Edward Jr. 
Mahoney, A.. Dougherty, Robert M. McCanna, Charles B. Viscomi, Frank J. Doran. Robert J. Majewski. Lawrence C. 
Donohue. John H., Jr. McCabe. Thomas A. 
Wahl, Wayne P. Dougherty, Charles T. Malaney. William C. #Dougherty. W. Edgar. .Tr. McCarthy, Thomas P. 
Wallace. George S. Dowd. Robert E. ' Mallek. Anthony J. 
Dowd, Henry R. McFarland, Patrick F., Jr. 
Ward. George K. Dowling. Francis W. 
Maloney, John L. 

Doyle, Edward D. Mclnerny, William P. 
Dubriske, Raymond A. 
Manix, Joseph C. McKenna. Thomas J. 
Doyle, .Tames F. Mclntyre. John A. 
Marbach, Robert J. 
12 

Marcucci. George L. JIarietta, Donald J. Marquardt, Clarence W.,Marranca, Joseph N-Martin, Emery W. :Maur>% George J. Mead. Hichmond A.   Jr.  Walsh, Lawrence M. Walter, Richard L. Wang. Joseph E. Ward. Jolin J.. Jr. Welly. Robert B. Womhoff. Francis J., Jr. Westhoff. Herbert A.  Gadak, Dr. Raymond J. Gait, James J. Gar^'ey, John J. Gavin. John J. Geraghty. Edward P. Geselbracht, Thomas H. Gibbons, John V.  ^faher. Rev- Thomaa H. :Majerus, Loais C. Mallon, Hugh A. Malone. John R. .Malone, Robert EL Marshall, William A. Matlavista. Dr. Richard-T.  Walker/ Thomas J. > ­' Walsh, Thomas A., Jr. \ Webber, Anthony G. Weinforter. Edward M.. Jr. Westenberser, George IIL.'Jr. Whaleii, Richard T. Wilcox. Gordon R.  
Meaney, James J. Meltzer, George F. Millenbach, Mathew K. Mlholick, ilatthew J.. Jr. Miller. Joseph J. Moncricf, David B. Moran, Robert K. Moulder, William A. Mullaney, John E., Jr. Mulligan, Patrick J. Mulligan. Thomas F-Mulvey, William K. Jturphy, Edward F., Jr. Murphy, John W. Murphy, Thomas J. ilurray, James A. Murray, James H., Jr. Murtagh. Donald R. Xace, John F. Nagel, Fritz J. Necas, Emniett J, Xewman, Bernard W. O'Brien, Harry P. O'Brien. J. F. D. O'Brien, James J. O'Connell. Francis A. O'Connor, Richard C. O'Dea, James L. O'Dea, John F. Odenbach, Robert C. O'Dowd, Jerome J. OKopien, Joseph E. Olbrys, Joseph B. Osborn, Robert K. Patterson, John W.. Jr. Paveglio, Gerald E. Perrine. Alfred J., Jr. Piepul. Milton J. Pinckney, Andrew 51. Pohl, Robert E., Jr. Porawskl, Thaddeus S. Porten, Edward M. Posner, Dr. Edward R. Puglia, Paul F. Quinn, Edmond J.. Jr. Rademacher. Robert V. Rafferty, Ward J. Ready, ^Fsgr. ilichael J. Redd, Aloysius J. Redd, Patrick M. Reed, George D. Relime. Francis J. Reidy. David L. Reis, Thomas K.Reiser. Louis A. Reishman. William J., Jr. Reith, John E. Rejent, Ronald P. Richards, John C, Jr. Riegel, Louis F.. Jr. Rigney, Thomas J.. Jr. Robidoux. Leo J. Ronstadt. Robert C. Russo, Joseph F. Ryan, Eugene J. Ryan, John M. Sass, Robert E. Schatfner, Irwin J. Schlafly, Hubert J., Jr. Schlesier, Raymond H-Schmidle, Claude J. Schmidt, Lawrence A-Schreiber, George A. Scully. J. Paul, Jr. Semenczuk, Joseph M. Sheets, Francis J. Shevland, Edward A. Shouvlin, Roger J. Smarinsky, Donald G. Smith, Dr. Bernard F. Smytli, J. Vincent Somers, Josepli P. Speca, John il. Spellman. James F. Spychalski, James A. Stack, Daniel J., Jr. Stack, John A. Stack. Robert N. Steidl, John R. Stephen. Joseph R. Stine, Charles E. Stoller, Dudley F. Sullivan, Daniel G. Sweeney, Robert M. Syring. William J. Talty, Thomas E. Thompson. George W. Timpani. Ernest C. Tinny, James R. Tlusty, Cyril J. Tomcik, Edward J. Tremblay, Norman C. Van Huffel, Albert F. Vignos, Dr. Paul J. Vincent, Thomas C. Voglewede, Frederick A. Waldron. John F. Walsh, James H. Walsh, John E.  /.  "White. James A. "Wieschlaus, LeRoy J. Wilkins. Noel F. Wilson, William C. Wingen, William F. Wolf. I,ouis A. Wrape, James D. Xaverius. Brother, C.F.X. Zeller, George H. Ziebarth. Charles L. Zubras, Robert L. 1942 No. Per Con. Cent Amt. Cent. 223 43.3 5SS9 Second 0'I9 43.3 2,00« Third 1S6 3G.3 2,195 Fourth 2SG 50.3 3,415 Amato, Angelo B. Aranowski, Erwin C. Asmuth, James E. Aubrey, .Tames E. Aubrey. Laurence J. Aucremanne, Camille E. Baader, William C Bagan, Mervin F. Bagiackas. Josepli J. Banigan.,Thomas F. Bargiclski. Rev. John C. Barr. Joseph J. Bagley. David C. Bellinger. James E., Jr. Bergan. Dr. Joseph A. Bergen, John W. Berko. Liiwrence ' Bermingham. John C. Bisese, John P. Blohm, Thomas R. Borda, John N. Boyle, Samuel J. Brehl, Bernard F. Brown, Roger W. Brutz. James C. Buckley, Francis E. Buckley. Robert J. Buenger, Edward .-V-Burby. Leo J. Burkart, James A. Burke, Lawrence E. . Burns. Rev. Malachi J. Cahill, Jones F. Cain, Eugene P. Canale, Daniel D. Carney, John B. Carr. Michael J. Carroll, Thomas P. Cavalero, Howard G. Clierney, Andrew W. Chung. Benedict J. Clifford. John H. Cody. Thomas P. Comerford, Thomas P. Concannon. Francis .T. Conger, Charles E. Connors, Donald D., .Tr. Conway, James F. Corcoran, Victor F. Croniu, John P. Crowley. George C. Cullinane. Daniel J. Dahill. Daniel D. Davis. Warren A. Dean, Earl J.. Jr. Deery, Paul C. Degnan, Thomas F. DeLois. Jess F. Delfoss, Robert W. Desel, Walter J.. Jr. Devine, Eugene J.. Jr. Dillon, Thomas E. Dinges. John F. Donadlo. Anthony P., Jr. Donahoe, Robert R. Donnelly. John T. Donovan, Lawrence J. Donovan. Raymond J. Doyle, James P. Duggan, James If. Eaton, Charles V.*. Ebli. Raymond H. Emmenegger, Edward J. Erd. Harry S.. Jr. Fallon. William J. Farrell. William J. Fayette. James J. Ferry, James P. Fitzgerald. Robert Sf. Flanagan, Harry G-, Jr. Ford, James H. Foster. William M. Fox. Francis R. Frick, James E. Fushelberger, Robert J.  Gibson, Francis E. . Gilbert. John W. Glaser, Dr. Edward J. Gordon, John W., Jr. Grady, William H. Graliker, Stephen G. >Griesedieck. Edward J., Jr. Griffin, Emmet D. Grimes, Thomas J. Guillaume. John F. Gulyassy. Victor J. Guthrie, John J. Guyette, Donald F. Hackett. Edwerd F. Hagan, Robert E. Haines. George J. Hale. Dr. Robert W. Hanifin. John F. Hardart, Augustin S. Hargrave, Robert W. Harrington, Robert D. Hartman. Dr. John F. Hartman, William W. Hebenstreit, Bruce A. Hecht, Robert E. Heckman, Richard G. Heil, Robert J. Heinlen. Jerome P. Helbing. Clarence H. Hennigan. Thomas A. Henry, George P-Hickey. Lawrence F. Rickey. William M. Higgins, Francis M. Hilgartner, Daniel E., Ill Hines. Michael L., Jr. Hogan. Donald J. Horak. Thomas E. Hosinski. William A. House, William R. Hoyer. Thomas E. Humphrey, Leo M. Hunt, Eugene F. Jnskoski, Benedict J. Judge, Dr. Donald J. Kanaley. Byron V.. Jr. Kearney. Charles M. Keegan, Thomas C, Jr. Keenan. John E. Kelloy, Lawrence J. Kelley, Paul W., Jr. Kelly. Maurice S. Kelly, Michael D. Kelly. William P. Class Average Gift ¥ 6.00 Subscriber AveroKc 11.91 Kennedy, William E., Jr. Kern, Richard J-Keyes, William C Kirby, John C. Kirby, Kenneth "VV. Knott. Joseph W. Krajniak. John C. Lanlgan. Leo A., Jr. Lavelle. Francis .T. Leahy, James J. Leis. Donald G. Lelsing, James W. LeJcune. Robert C. Lonhard, Richard E. Lewis, John E. Llllis. Paul B. Link. Urban E., Litizzette. Stanley V. Lownik. Felix J. Lohr, Charles B-Lucier, Phillip J. Luthringer, John L. ilcAulifTe. William J. JlcCabe, John F. McCarty. Nell J. McCourt. Walter P.. Jr. JIcFadden. James F. ilcFadden, James J. McFarlane, Charles R. ilcGrath. William P. McGuire. Coleman L.. Jr. .McHugh. Richard E. Mcintosh. Howard O. ^rcICay. Bernard C-McKee. Robert J­^IcKenna. Coe A., Jr. . McLoone. Edward W. ilcXally. Donald B. (deceased) McNally. Walter J. McNamara. Daniel J. McNeill. Cliarles E. ilcNerthney, Joseph B. McNuIty. James F. MacDonald. Harrison T. Madden. William B. Maddock. Robert C. Magarahan, James F., Ill Magulre, John P.  Mayotte, Robert L. Mcehan, Francis J. Meier, William E. Minder, Walter J. Mlnges. William J. Molidor, OttQ B. Moran, James D. Morrison, Thomas A. Morrow, William F. ^[ullin, Charles J. Murphy, Paul V. ^lurphy. Richard C , Jr. Murphy, William J. Murray, Harry L. ^lurray, Roy E,, Jr. Nash, Thomas D., Jr. Nelson. Charles F. Nigro, Dr. E. Robert Nilles, Herbert G.. Jr. Nolan, John H. Nugent, Joseph E. O'Brien, Eugene L. O'Brien. James J. O'Donohoe, James E. O'Dowd, Frank E., Jr. Oehler, William E. O'Hara, Robert W. O'Hayer, Robert E. O'Laughlin, James P. Olson. William R. O'Neal, James J. Owens, Richard K. Padon. William B. Palmer. ErroII J. P. Pancheri, Emanuel I-Paulmann. Frederick H.. Jr. Peters, John T .­Petersen. Donald C. Pitkin, Carroll P. Piatt, Francis J-, Jr. Piatt, William R. pollnow. Francis J., Jr. Pope. Arthur W. Powell. F. Baden Powers, Thomas V. Prokop, Joseph M. Quinlan. Charles R. Quinn, Francis B. Rabbett, Gerard J. Rcardon. John J. Regan, William O. Reichenstein, Jacob M. Reidy, Edward P. Reilly, John A. Reilly. Thomas E. Reilly, Thomas J. Rice, James J. Richards, Floyd F. Ridley, John J. Rinella. Anthony A. Rively, Clalr M. Roach. Daniel C. Rock, Martin J. Rorick, Joseph A-Rossi, Ugo Dante Rourke, Thomas R. Roy. Raymond L. Rudolph, George M.. Jr. Ruppe, Richard V. Rush, James G. Scanlan, William E. Schellenberg, Howard J. Scherer, John A. Schieck. Charles S. Schmidt, Thomas A. Schroer, Gerhard J. Schumaker. Eugene J. SeutTert. Joseph A. Sheerin, James I^ Shiely, Vincent R. Shirk, Charles A. Shouvlin. Daniel R. Sobek, George E. Sommers, Armiger H. Spohr, Joseph C, Jr. Stauber. John H. Stenstrom, Francis E. Stewart, Peter W. Storck, Harry E., Jr. Sullivan, Dr. Edward J. Sulivan, Edward J. Sullivan. Nora Rose Supplitt, George 1­Sutherland, Jesse O. Tafel, Paul J., Jr. Teamey, Thomas W. Thomas. Albert I. Thompson. George G. Timmel. Robert F. , Tobin. William M. Tracey, James H. Treacy, John E. Trenkle, Frederick A. Turgeon, Leo V., M-D-Uhl, George A. Uhl, Robert C. Veit, Francis A.. Jr. Vollmer, Joseph W. Wack, Paul E.  Wrirht, Robert E. Teaser, William J. " -'^ York, Georse K. Zimmer, Harold E. 1943 No. Per Con. Cent Amt. Cent. 77 24.0 MM Second 214 (S.2 2,112 Third 208 64.4 2,301 Ponrth 330 S1.7 3,740 Allen, Jamea H. Atkins. Thomas I,. Aatwater,'Jollan G. Baader, Charles J. Baker, Robert O. Barrett, George B. Banchman, Robert W. Becker, Joseph J. Behr, John L. Biitner, George T. Blackmore. George H. '-. Blomer, Charles I. Bonflclio, John P. Bonyai, William J. Borghi, Louis J. Bradley, Patrick A. Brehmer, John B. Brown, Anthony If. Bryne, James J. Bnms, Edward K. Bntler, Charles J. Cahill, James F., Jr. Callahan, Edward D. Callahan. Joseph F. Callan, Robert L. Carabasi, Ralph A. Carberry, George A.­Carroll, WUIIam M. Carver, Robert B. Champley, Joseph P. Chriatman. Frederick G. Clark, James R. Cleary. Edmund P. Clemens, William M., Jr. Coco, Carl S. Collins, Robert W. Comerford, Hichael B. Contort!, Francis J. Conley, Edward T: Cooney, Thomas J. Comwell, Richard C. Corrigan, Robert Costello, William C. Cummings, Roger S. Currier, Gerald A. Dahm. Henry L., Jr. Delaney, Francis J. Denney, John M. Di Gloja, Roger Doerr, John H. Donovan, John P. Doran, Edward J. Dontel, Frederick C. . Dove, Robert I*. Downey, James C. Doyle, John T. Dudley, Ambrose F. Dnggan, Raymond B. Dunlavy, John T. Dnnlay,,Robert J. Dunn, John H. Dunne. Gerald W. Durbin, Julian V. Hbner, Francis 6. Edwards. John R. Englehart, Frederick C. Ensner, Stephen A. Farmer, Thomas M. . Feeney, Francis G. Fehlig, Eugene A. Fennell, James J. Feminte, Francis J. Flnacane, l^omas F. Fisher, Paul A. Fitch. Gall D. Fitzpatrick. Francis B. FItzpatrlck. Xoseph W. Florence, Harry A. Fogarty, John P. Ford. James W. Ford, William E. Fretagne, Wlliam J. Gainer. Jerome D. Gallagher, James J. Gans. Dr. Frederick A. Gibbons; Joseph W. Gibson, Jay E. GUhooly, GUbert L. • GlUette. Robert E. Girolaml. Anthony G. Goeken. Joseph V. Gonxales, Angel J.  
13  

Gore, Frederick P. Grady, Walter T. Green, Rev. Gernrd A. Grogan, John p. Guiney, Daniel J. Gulyassy, Dr. Xirholas S. Guy, Donald B. Greene, John M. Hackner. Robert B. Hall. Richard A. Haller, Donald F. Haninger, George A. Harrigan. John L. Hart, James W. Hauser, Robert F. Hays, George O., Jr. Hedges, Jolin M., Jr. 
Helnzen, Raymond J. Heiser, Carl R. Heltzel, Donald T. Herbert, Francis il.. Jr. Herrington. Robert W. Herzog, William L. Hiegel, Arthur F. Hillcbrand, Joseph R. Holland. Edwerd !>. HoUvell, Daniel E. Hoover, Frederick N. Hunt. John D. Hunter, OliVLr 11- III Hynes, John B. 
Jacob, Joseph E. Johnson. W.lliam C. Kaiser, Francis W. Kane, Charles H-Kartheiser. Arthur T. 
Class Avcrace Gift ? 6 Sutraciiber Average 11. 
Kasberg, Robert H. Kearns, Francis B. Keams, Robert J. Keating,. WaUer L. Keenan, William Q. Keller, Frederick Kelly, George J. Kelsey, Donald J. Kempf. Kenneth 1^. Keusch, Joseph F., Jr. Klotz, Carol R. Kotz. Donald H. Kralovec, Charles V. Krawiec, Walter F. Kresock, Joseph \'.*. Kuipers, Robert W. 
Kunkel, Francis L. Kunkle. Edward B. Kurtz. L«ouis F. LaForge. Raymond A. Lambert. Walter C. Jr. Lancaster, Robert G. Lane, Joseph M-Lang, William J. Leahy, John K. LeMense, Robert D. Lenncrtz, Raymond J. Lewis, Charles T. Llljestrom. William P. Linck, Leo L. Lindroth, Richard J. Lonergan. Robert P. Lower, William 11. McCallister, William R. McCormick. Richard 1>. 
McCreedy, Thomas J. JIcDowell, John W. McElroy, James A,' McGowan, Blair McGowan, William A. McKeon, John J. McKnight, Henry J McNicol, John A., .tv. McNulty, John P. llcPadden, Robert J. McQuaid, Samuel McVay, James F. Mackiewlch, Justin E.. Jr. MacClements, John E. ACadden, Robert T. Madigan. James E. Maher, James J., Jr. Maher, Thomas D. Mahon, William R. Maloney, Anthony J, Maloney, John C. 
Mann ion, Joseph A, Marcin, Joseph N. Marlow, Howard H., Jr. Martel, Roland J. Martin, Robert F. Martine, Jay B. Massullo, Mario D. Menard, Everett W. Mengel, William F, Meyer, Samuel F. Michel, Julian D. Middendorf, Will am B. Miholich, Godfrey V. Milem, Dallas A. Miller, Donald J. Miller, Eugene A. Miller. Thomas S. Millett, Robert M. 

Millimnn. .Tolin R. Moorehead. William C-Moritz. Peter F. Morrill, Robert E. Morrison. John H. Muellman. Robert G. Muench. Albert J. Murphy. Charles H. Murphy, James W. Murniy. Edward X. ilurniy. James F. Murray. James p. ilurray. Jolin A. Murray, Dr. Richard Murray. Stanford E. 
Murrin, William Z. Xeagle, Edward F. Xenno. Robert P. X^orris, Joseph T. O'Brien, Joseph F. O'Brien. Rev. Richard C O'Brien. William K. O-Connell. Dr. William A­O'Donnell, James J. Oliver, Alfred R., Jr. Olvany. William J., Jr. O'Xoil. Willi.im J. Onofrio. Ralph J, O'Toole. John J. O'TooIe. John K. Ovc-rmeyer. Robert F. Pacheco, Leopoldo A. Pacliin, Fnmklin R. Padesky. Ricliard R. 
I*adesky. Robert C. Peasenolli, John J. Posavento, Renzo J. Pfaller, Mark A. 
99 Pfeiffer. Paul E. 33 Polil, Richard B. 
Poinsatte. James A. Powers. Edward J. Powers. John B. Pyritz. Stanley W. Ramsour. Bartholomew J. Rau. John A. Raymond. Loo F., Jr. Reale, Robert J. Redmond. John L. Reilly. Henr>- E. Re is, John F. Rice, Willis H. Riedl, John J. Ritter, Leo J. Roesch. Joseph A. Rogers. Joseph P. Rogers. Robert M. Rolfs. David J. 
Roney, Edward C. Jr. Runimel. Melville S. Russell. John C. Sandom, Zane J. Savard, V.'ilfred R. Seherer, John O. Schindler. John W., Jr. Schoonlioven, Ray J. Schroeck. Bernard A. Scully. William H. Shea, Gerald M. Sherer. Joseph J. Sherer, William J. Shriwise. Wayne A. 
Sinon. Robert J. Slatt. Vincent P-Smith. Dudley K. Smith. Richard M. Spasnuolo. Louis J, Stewart. Daniel G. Sulliv.-in, Leigh R. Stewart, William J., Jr. Stuart, Franklin H. Sweeney, Jeremiah J., Jr. Sweeney, Robert F. Sweeney, Thomas M. Sweeney. William M. Tallett. John H. Timmerman, Robert T. Tobin. John G-Toland. Paul R. Towner. Robert W. Tracey, John F. Tracy. Joseph A. Tracy, William J. Trilling, Joseph H. 
Tupta. Richard D. Ungashick. William F. Vicars, Robert J. "\nnciguerra. Ralph J. Waeldner, William J. Wahl. John J., Jr. Walsh, John E. AValsh. Joseph G. Walsh. William F. AVamer. John A., Jr. "Warnick, William J. "Webb. Robert B. Weber. Taul H. "Welch. William .T. Wiethoff. John P. Wiggins, John L. "Wilson. Waldo W. AVood, John E. Yavorsky. John C. Zagame. Anthony F. Zeller. Wayne D. Zuehlke. Gustave A. 
1944 
No. Per 
Con. Cent .\mL Cent. 1 $2 Second 133 52.C 1.000 Third 173 CS.4 1.9S5 Fourth 331 05.4 3,4C3 
A'Hearn. Richard H. Alexander, Gufdo A. Amann. William R. Amato, Nicholas J. Andres, John J, Anhut. John W. Arens. Joseph P. Aucremanno. Marcel J. Bariscilto, George A. Baty, Jolm R. Bauchman. Walter D. Beaudine. Francis R. Belmont. Peter M. Bertelli. Angelo B-Beyerle. John J. Bitter Vincent. Jr. Bodkin. Leonard D. 
Boldrick. John T. Bonicelli. Orlando A. Boss, William E.. Jr. Bowling. Bernard F. Brehmer. Walter L. Bremer. Thomas F. Bristol, Lyons A. Brown, Kenneth M. Brunetti. Benito E. Burke. Edward J., ,Tr. Burke. Robert J. Byrne. John E. Byrnes, Robert J. Carney. Eugene il. 
Carpenter, Robert Li Carrico, William E. Carver, Joseph F. Casey, Daniel F., Jr. Casey, James F. Cashman, Edward E. Charters, George A. Christen, Joseph E.. Jr. Christman, John F. Christman. Wallace P. Clark. Herbert F. Clemens, Thomas C. Coaker, John F., Jr. Coleman, Jerome A. Coleman, John F. Colianni. Or\'il!e O. Colianni. Paul p. Collins, John F. Conaty. Thomas J. Conerty. Joseph A-. Jr. Connolly, John P. Conway. John H. Costello. Thomas A. 
Crahan, John H. Crowley. James G.. Jr. Crowley. James T. Cummings. Theodore P. Cunningham, James V., Jr. Curran. Louis F.. Jr, Davis. Donncll V. Dewey. John G. Dillon, Joseph F. Doermer, Richard T. Doll. Wilbur F. Donati, Leo S. Donnellon. John B. Dowling, Edward J., Jr. Downej-. Daniel, Jr. Dratz. Richard A. Duffey. Robert F. Duffy, Robert T. Duffy., Thomas L. Dugan, Paul D. Dugas, Amedee Duncan, Vincent J. 
Dunn, Robert L. Dunn. Robert W. Earley, Anthony F.. Jr. Eck, Franklin E. Eckenrode, Edward R. Englert, Earl R-English, Francis E. Fahrondorf, Frederick J. Parrell, Joseph B. Feeney, Henrj- V., Jr. Ferrari, Thomas A. Pieweger, Josepli F. Pinneran, James A.. Jr. Firth, Robert J. Fisher. Roltert G. Fitzgerald, James Flyke, Milton J. Foester, Hallard L. Forbes. Dr. Kenneth A. Forester, Gordon L. Forster, John S. Prierott, Richard P. Proberger, Charles P. Fuetter, Roger L. 
Gaffney, Gerald P. Gall, Joseph F. Gallagher, Edward R. Gallagher, James E. 

Gallagher, Joseph V.. Jrl Gallagher. Richard E. Garibaldi. Francis D. Gelber. Melvln W. Ghiglieri, Bernard J. Ghigliott?, Edward E. Gillespie, William J. Goebeler, Lawrence J. Goodman, Francis P., Jr. Gormeley, James F. Gower, James M. Grafe. William H., Jr. Graham, William L. Griffin, John A. Grumbine. Roy J. Guard, Alan H. Gwinn. William R. Hackman. Richard J. Hagen. Daniel J. Haley, James F. Halligan, Thomas F. Hannan. William F. Hannan. William P. Hassett. Emmett A.. Jr. Hayden, Joseph M. 
Healy. William M., Jr. Hecht, Daniel J. Henchy, John F. Herlihy, John E., Jr. Heuring. Rev. Alvan P. Hickey, John P. Homan, John J. Howe, William J. Ivancevic, Walter C. Jeakle, John G. Johnston, WiUlam H. Joyce, James L. Kairis, Albert C. Kane, James J. Kathleen, Sister M.. OSB Kavanaugh, Edgar L. Kearney, Joseph F. Keelan, Edward J. Kelly, Arthur L. Kelly, Richard W. 
Kelly, Thomas E. Kelly, William J. Kerrigan. Thomas E-Kiely, Michael M. F. Kiley. Robert P. Kimmel. Victor M., Jr. Kinney, George R. Koch. John D. Koegler. Charles E. Koetter, Frederick W. Kohl, Robert C. Krapf, William L. Kroth, Robert J. Kuhn, John M. Lanigan, Joseph F. Lardie, Leo J. Larson. Oscar P., J.-. Lavery, Harr>' D. Lawler. John P. Lear>*, Warren D.. Jr. Legoay, August J. Leon, Richard 0. 
Lyden, Charles G. 
Class Average G'.tt $ 6.88 Subscriber Averase 10.46 
Lynch, John A. 
Lyons, William R. 
McAuliffe. Robert D. 
McAndrews. John P. 
McCarthy, Thomas J. 
McCready, Robert J. 
McDermott, Patrick L. 
McGee, Dr. Harry B. 
McGlew. Michael T. 
McGowan, Graham W. 
McGowan, Robert P. 
McGuire, Albert P. 
McKahan, Robert C. 
McKenna. John W. 
McLaughlin, Thomas E. 
McManus. Frank L. 
McManus. Joseph C. 
McNamara, Edgar C. 
McParland, Felix A., Jr. 
McSweenoy, John E. 
Macdonnell. Robert A. 
Mahoney, James J. 
Malloy, James M., Jr. 
Malone, James J. 
Mammina, Benjamin J. 
Mangan. John T. 
Mann, John F. 
Marnon, Donald E. 
Martina, Robert J. 
Meagher, James L. 
Merrill, Charles F., Jr. 
3Ietzler, Robert J. 
Mculeman, Robert J. 
Mileti, Otto J. 
Miller. Creighton E. 
Miller, Richard J. 
Monagban John T. 
Monahan. Edward F. 
Moore, Francis E. 
Moran John H. Morris, John H. 
Morrison. John J. Mueller. Norman F. Mulligan, William C. Murphy, Richard G. Murray. John M. .Myers Philip F. Neufeld, Joseph A. Xewman James E. Nunnink. Arnold C. O'Brien, James F. O'Brien Louis C O'Connell. John G.. Jr. O'Connell, Paul W. O'Connell. William G. O'Connor, Bernard A. O'Connor, Edward P. O'Connor, Thomas J. O'Connor William C. O'Hara, John F. O'Keefe. Joseph D. O'Meara, Alfred M.. Jr. O'Neill, John J. 
O'Reilly. Joseph T. O'Rourke, John C. Osborne, ilr. & Mrs. Harry Parchem, John A. Patrucco, Joseph P. Patterson, Charles J. Peciulis. Hyginus A. Pedrotty, John R. Phtllipoff, James G. PJckhardt Charles L. Pilawski, Eugene W. Piatt, Raymond J. Prince. John J. 
Quinlan. Farrell J. Quinn. Stephen R. Raff, Robert W. Ualey. Charles F.. Jr. Reilly. Robert P. Renner. Leo E. Reynolds, Laurence AV. Reynolds. Richard E. Riley, John J. Rodin. Evald M. Rogers. William J. Rolfs, Tliomas J. lioney, David T. Rourke. Daniel J. 
Ruetz. Raymond J. Rumely. Leo il.. Jr. Sansono. Joseph A. L. ?cheuch, Joseph W. Schickel. AVilliam J. Schmid, Edward F. Schmid, James A. Schmitz. Louis E. Schramm. Robert "W. Schumerth, Harold J. Segerson, John P. St-niz. Lester C. Seuffert, Donald C. Sharp, Austin R. Shellwortli, Thomas R. Shields. James M. Simons, Joseph L, Simonson, Edward A. Smith, Raymond V. 
Snyder, William T, Soclialski. Edwin S. Steiner, Edward C, Jr. Streicher, Henry p.. Jr. Stevens, Daniel F. Strong, George A. Stumpf, Francis J. Sullivan, Daniel J., Jr. Sulliv.nn, James G. Sullivan, John F. Sullivan. Richard E. 
-Talbot, William F. Thomas, James C. Thornton, John F. Thumm, John R. Tierne.v, Lawrence J. Tomcik. Daniel J. Toole, Theodore T. Treacy, James B. VanderWegen, Richard A. VanDyke, M. j . Veeneman, Jacques M. Vignola, Francis J. Villarosa, Nicholas J. Waldron, William J., Jr. Walsh, John J. Waterbury, Daniel E. Waters, John S. Weigel. Steven J. Welsh. William J, 
Wendt, George R. AVhite, Wniliam T. Witte, Robert S. Woelfle, John C. Yeates, Harrj* L. Yoklavich. Eugene p. Zoilo. Aurelio M. Zwicker, Jolm N. 
1945 
Abeil, Welton R. 
Abood, William N. Ahern, Francis M. Ames. Richard J. Anderson, Arthur L. Anderson, Rudolph J., Jr. 
14 

Mulhern. Thomas F. Edwards, Arthur M. Walsh. James J. Xo. Per Murphy. George D-Edwards. Donald T. Walker, Ignatius B. 1949 
Con. Cent Amt. Xasli. Fr.mcls P. Evans, .Tames H. (deceased) Second i> «6S Nelson, George J. Fahrner, William J. Whitaker, Charles C. Third 70 721 Xotan. Thomas E. Fanizzi. Vito J. Whittingham. George A. 
No. Per Con: Cent Amt. 

Fourth 170 52.2 1,57S OberfcII. Robert A. FInnegan. Robert J. Wilson, Arnaud J. O'Brien, Gerald J., Jr. Finucane, James B. Wing, Samuel A., Jr. 
Fourth 7 181 

O'Brien. John J., Jr. Frawley. George M. Wohlbom, Eugene C. 
O'Brien. Robert S. Funk. Frederick R. Young. William P.. Jr. 
Anderson, William ^I. 
O'Donnell, Daniel A., Jr. Ganey. Slichael J. Zimmerman, Joseph V. Oppenheim. Theodore V. Graif, John H. 
Andrews, James C. Clam ATcivce Gift 
P.addour, Raymond F. SvlMwribcr Avenve ,
O'Rourke. John J. GritRu. James D. fll.57 
Eajorck, Matthew J. 
O'Toole, Robert H-Gustafson, Roger D. 
Balas, George M. 
Payne, Hei'ry B. Haefner, Arthur E. 1947 
Barsotti, Louis J. 
Pejeau, Rir:hard C Haller, Edward H. Angiulli, Eugene R. 
Bergin, Thomas P. 
Pelton, Robert S.. CS.C. I layman. Ralph W., Jr. Bowen. John D. 
Berliner, Harold A. 
Pendarvis. Fnincis X. Heyvaert. John C. No. Per Galla. Alexander S. 
Bevlngton. William S. 
Perry. William il. Hiegel, Loo J. Con. Cent Amt. McCarthy, Robert J. 
Biscsi, Jlichael A. 
Philpott. Robert E. Hoffman. Raymond J. Third 2 }35 G'Donoghue, John B. 
Ttlong, Victor J. 
Pizzarelll. Anthony J. . Horenn, Robert J. Fourth 43 •474 Pucci. Gino L. 
Bracken, •\Villlam A. 
Plante, Arcade J. Huntzicker. John H. Reinert, John E.
Braun, James W. 
Prihoda. John J.. Jr. Huxford, James D. 
Bresnalian. John C. 
Hauscher, Ernest W. Imbodcn. John B. Anderson. Walter S. 
Butler, James C. 
Renze, Anthony X. Joehlln, Xorman C. Cannon, Robert M. 1950 Cahill. James E. 
Better, James R. Johnson. Barton B. Cappucci. Louis W. 
Cameron, Dr. Itobert B. 
Hinella. John P. Kearns, William B. Carey, James J. 
Carr, Lawrence E., Jr. 
Kiordan. Robert E. Keenan. George J. Carr, Francis A. No. Per Carroll, James P. 
Rizk. Samuel G. Kelly. John M. Casey, Francis ii. Con. Cent Amt. 
Caron, John B. 
Kosanelli. Dr. O. W. Kelly. Laurence F. Cussidy. William J. Fourth 3 }35 Cartwright, David R. 
Roscher. John R. Kowalski. Francis J. Cawley, John H. 
Castle. William E. 
Hyan, Hai-ry J. Kernen. Arthur R. Clemens, James A. 
Cizauskas, Albert C. 
Ryan, Theodore M. Lacey. Hugh V. Condon. James J. 
Clarke. Dr. J. Pli-Iip Sadowski, Eich.ird ^I. Ljitorre, Joseph F. Deeb, Richard J. 
Clarke. Dr. V.'illiam A. 
Luken. James R. Duclos. Bernard R. Class ATcrace Gift Clary. John R. 
McCabe. John H. Flynn, Raymond R. Subscriber Averace 
Clauss, James T. ni.*s 
ilcCarthy. James F. Gain, Francis P. 
Clemency, William M. 
Ciynes, James J. CIU.SS Average Gift $1.5« McCarthy, John E.. Jr. Gately, Leonard E., Jr. 
Coffey, Michael J. Subscriber Average 8.8*i 
McCourt. James P. Greenawalt, Robert C-Cassldy. James E., Jr. 
McDermott. John F. GriesediecK, Robert A. Goetz, Tliomas R. 
Coghlan. William P. 
JIcEnery. Raymond C. Gulon. Joseph £. Jones. John H. 
Cooney. James F. 
.AIcGnine. Alfred J. Hellrung, Herbert R. 
Cordes, Dr. Jerome F. Snmpierre. Edward A. 
ifcGuire. John P, Holbrock. V/illiam H. Cronin. Robert P. Schaefer. Alfred J. 
Cox, Robert D. Sayers, John R. 
Jlelnerney, John J. Hutchison, Thomas L., Jr. 1951 Mc^Iahon. John J. Karl. Robert H. 
Currier, Desmond P. Schaeffer, James W. 
Macdonnell. Donald J. Denniston. John L. Schweickert. James F. 
Deegan, John F., .Tr. Schwartz. George A-. Jr. 
;\rarietta. Paul A. No. Per Merman. Lawrence E. - Con. Cent Amt. 
Dermont, Robert E. Sinkle. Robert D. 
Mersman. Edward W., Jr. Class ATcrace Gift Fourth 3 $30 DeVries, John A. Sippel. George R. 
Subscriber Aveiase fi*-8e Donnelly, James V.. Jr. Smith. William B. 
Donovan, James J. Stroot. Edgar IL. Jr. 
Dowling, John J. Sylvester. Joseph JI. 
Clitss Avenifce Gift 

Doyle. Owen W. Terry. John H. Keenan, Robert R. Glass Avefase Gift 
Subscriber Average 9.48 

Dully. James D. Toner. Redmond F. Kelly, Walter G. Subscriber Aveiace fl*.W Emanuel, Sister Mare, S.C. Treacy. John C. JIcAlIister, William R. Erkins, Robert A. 
Trunk. Francis J. McDermott, John F. 
.Mertcn, Kenneth F. 

Faust. Joseph E. Vail. Thomas F. X-ilcDermott, Maurice C. Deeb, Richard J. 
Fisher, Joseph P. Valestin. Robert F. Mieszkowski, Edward T. McFarland. Clifton E. Fager. John H. 
Flach, Williaii. J. Vatter, Joseph R. Mitchell. Thomas J. ^lansfield, James P. Mandlch, Donald R. 
Molidor. James F. 

Formickella. Eugene .V. Veeneman. Robert L. Mulligan, John L. 
ilorava, Walter 
Mosher. Arthur J. 

Franz, Robert W. Waddington. William R.. Jr. ^lurpliy. James L. 
Frost, Earl V. Wade, Alfred A. Xeckerman. John G. 1952 
Murphy. John R . Gillespie. Elmer F. Walters. Harry J.. .Jr. Palladino, Robert F. 
Garrj*. Michael G. Walker. Joseph V. O'Xeil, Thomas F., Jr. 
Murphy, Vincent T. 
Jlurphy, William J. 

Goebeler. Frederick J. ,.Ir. Weber, Theodore S.. Jr. Patton, James M. No. Per 
Gosline, .Toseph V.. Jr. Wilkes. Rufus M. . Murniy, Raymond H. Popham, Bernard I. Con. Cent Amt. 
Xaegele, John J. 

Qulllen, Claude J., Jr. Fourth 1 |5 Gotta. Bernard E.. Jr. 
X^orton, David A. 

Reilly, Paul A. 
Grant. AVilliam F. 
Xugent, John E. 

Roberts, George S. 
Grimn, Robert K. 
O'Connor. Rev. Michael J. 

1946 Roth, Charles A. 
Guinoy. Francis M. 
O'Donnell. James V. 

Rougeux, Lawrence J. 
Guthrie. John M. . Class Averace Gift 
O'Hani. Joseph iL 

No. Pur Suty, John A. «5.«9 
Hackett. Lawrence E. Snbscriber Aveiase 
Olive. John T. 

Wagner, Arthur L. 
Haggar, Joseph M., Jr. Con. Cent Amt. 
'O'Xeil, William E. . 

Handlan. Edward K. Cent. 2 5325 O'Xeill. John J. 
Harrington, Dr. Jamos F.. .Ir. .Second 1.009 Ricci. Lawrence P. 
n Otiewskl. Eugene A. 
Herring. Christ P. .1. Tliird IV S44 
Pacheco. Armando C. 

Iliemonz.'Arthur C-. Jr. Fourth IGo 51.1 1.5C4 1948 
Paulson. Francis J. 

Horgan. James T. 
Phipps, John B. 

Hosbein. John W. 
SUBSCRIBERS 
Filler, Robert J. 

Jennings. Emmif M. Anonymous No. Per 
Power, John F. 

Jeschke. George J.. .In Eannon. Mark J. Con. Cent Amt 
Prawdzik, John A. 

t..  J. SUBSCRIBERS 
Johnson. John J. Batcholor. Roliert Fourth 29 ?25f; 
Puhr, Wilbur J. 

Kane, Thomas W. Berezney. Peter J. No. Per 
Qulnn, John A., jr. 

-Kearney. John J.. Jr. Biggert. Brendan P. Con. Cent Amt. 
Rejent. Casimir F

Keenan. Frank J. Bisbeo, Alexander H. Cent. 52 $5,782 
Rice. James B. Arcadi, John A. 
Keenan. Lawrence P. Blocher, James E. Second 46 1,471 
Riehiski. Peter P. Barr, Lawrence J. 
ICellow. William T. Brady, Joseph L. Third 28 4.052 
Rock. Robert E. Begert, John H. 
Kennedy. Josopii D. Preen. John E. Fourth 81 5,111 
Rogers. Walter F. Benton. Robert W. 
Kent, Francis J. Brown, Jeremiah E. 
Rossiter. Robert M. Caldwell. Joseph M. 
Kinney. John R, Burns, Thomas E. 
Rousseve, Kormit A. Callaglmn. D. Coyne Ankenbruck, Klem. William H., Jr. Carey. Maurice F. 
Rud, Joseph P. Carey, Robert J. 
Mr. & Mrs. Oscar G. 

Kopituk. Raymond C. Carey. William J. 
Ruggiero. Francis A. Cavanaugh, William T. 
Kramer, John A. Carlson. Walter B.. Jr. Anonymous 
Landis. David S. Carroll. Joseph L. Bartlctt, Charles H., Jr. 
Sedlmayr, Ernest F. Cirillo, William J. Schirack. Francis .1. DeRosa. Ernest A., Jr. 
Larkin, Robert F. Castelli. .Tohn C. Berra. Joseph Lauck. Joseph A-Cauley. John J. Birmingham, E. H. 
Siegol, Donald P. Dwyer, George P. Smitli, Edward P. 
Blake. J. J. 

Laurita. A''incent Ci. Clemens. James H. 
Smith. Theodore F. 

Lavery. John R. Cochrane. Chris W. Blum, Fred G. Lawson, John F. Coleman, James J. Class Axenge Gift Brezenski, Mr. & Mrs. W. A. 
Snyder, Xeil C, Jr. Leite, Richard J. Combs, James F. Subscriber AvcnMce $8.83 Burnell. Very Rev. Vincent 
Slater. Bernard J, Slater. John F. 

Ltsmez. Alvaro V. Constantine, Clemetine E. B.. OPPG 
Slowey. William E. •

Linehan, Francis M, Costello, Leo J. Callan, Richard J. 
Sole, Jacquin J. 
Specht, John H-

Long. Daniel W. Coyle. Robert VT^ Eich. Leonard H. Carlin. Miss Dora 
Lugton, Charles K. Cullen. James N. Horin, William K. Carr. Rev. John M. 
Stevenson, James C. 

Lynch, A. Brock Cullison. Chester D. Houston, John R. Carroll. Mrs. William P. .
Sturbitts. William C. 

Lyons, John F. Dailey. William E.. Jr. Huntoon, Daniel A. Cartier, Charles E. 
Sulli\-an. Henrj' J. 

McCarthy. Thomas J. Dean. Eugene J.. Jr. Hurd. Jerome N. Clancy, Mrs. William E. 
Sullivan. William H. 
Surkamp. Henrj* B. 

MoGrane, John F. Dease, John C. Jordan. Donald G. Collins. William P. McLaughlin. Brian C. Degnan, Donald E. Tenge. John J.. .Tr. McGroder, John C, Jr. Copeland. Mrs. Earl Tobin. William F. 
Maguire. Donald F. DeSimon, Victor A. Mclnerney, Michael T. Oiederlck, Donald J. Manzo. Michael B. Donohue, Edward A.. .Ir. Mrus. Stanley T. Dolarine. Mother H. S.S.J. 
Toker. Donald L. 

. Jlarks, Clifford D. . Donahue. Edwin J. Xardi. Francis L. Dombrosky. Alfred W. 
Troha, Charles C. 

Maurer, Dr. Frct^eric O. Dougherty, James F. Xichols, George S.. Jr. Duffy, Dr. Bernard A. 
Trottier. Donald J. 

Michaels. Albert J. Dressel, Robert P. Pora. Stanley J. Duncan.. John M. 
Trueax. Alfred W. 

arorel. Robert H. Dugan, James F. Ralston. William D, Ethelreda, Sister M.. SSJ 
Valestin. Robert F. 
Valva. Ralph R. 

Morrissey. Robert P. D. Dunne, William G. Reynolds, George F. Enright, Rev. Joseph A. 
Dwyer. William V. 

Rooney. John C. Evans, Emmett Vaughan, John S. 
Kgan. James A. 

Rossi, Eugene L, Fay. William F. 
15 
Pitzpatrick, James H. Froehike, Mr. & Mrs. Phillip Gartland, Mrs. F. J. Gougeon. "William A. Grant. Mr. & ilrs. M. 
Douglas Guerrara, Francis VT. Hartman, Benjamin A, Hayes, Brj*an I. ITonoault. Mrs. Rose A. Hukill, Henr>- D. Karey, Carl F. Kelly. Mr. & irrs. J. X. Jr. 

Kille&rew, "Mrs. Alvina King, Kdward H. Liowis, Tliomas Loefller, "Ward McGoldrick, Sir. & Mrs. 
.lames A. McHenry, Joseph McKeon, Mr. & Mrs. 
^.lichael J. McKim, Mr. & ilrs. 
Edward D. ifcirahon, Oliver R.. Jr. M al oney. Joseph Jlullon. Fred J. 
JIurpIiy, Timothy 
X. D. Club of Cle\-elanil 
X. D- Club of Kentucky 
X. D. Club of Xeu- York City 
X. D. Club of ^Vashington, 
D. C. 
O'Beirne. J. P. 
O'Boyle, Francis 
O'Brein, Joseph A. 
O'Connor. Miss MoUic 
O'Xeil. Ifrs. Thomas F. 
O'TooIo, Bartholomew Rapp, "William A. Sheets. Dr. & Mrs. L. G. Redden. Earl J., Jr. Soldo, Joseph J. 

Reitz, John if. SpraguD. Mr. & ilrs. Ray R. Reynolds, Mrs. Charles E. Staunton, Ilonrj* F. Reynolds, iirs. J. O. Stolberg. Donald E. * Reynolds. P. George Vanderhoff. H. O. 
Richter, Harvey A'eeneman. 'William Riedmait, Paul A. Williamson, Albert F. lEogers, Frank S. Yoager, Mr. & ilrs. 
St. Benedict. Sisters of George E. Schroeder, F. C Schroogcr, Rev. V. A. Seifert. Dr. Otto J­
FOOTBALL TICKET DISTRIBUTION PLAN. 1947 
Alumni Preference 

1.
 Alumni in good standing as of June 15, 1947, will be 6. Since for the Army game there will be but 14,000 alumni 

eligible for ticket preference. tickets available, the preference of two tickets to each alumnus cannot be a guarantee (as was the case in 1946) 

2.
 Alumni preference blanks for all games will be mailed if the total alumni in good standing exceeds 7,000 by the 


prior to July 1 onlj' to alumni in good standing. Blanks June 15 deadline. For the other games, the alumnus in will carry preference of four tickets per game EXCEPT good standing is reasonably certain of tickets even if the the Army game which wU afford only two tickets, these good standing group does surpass 7,000. 
two tickets intended for the alumnus' pei-sonal use. 
7. Only ONE categoiy A\-ill be recognized for ticket priority. Thus, an alumnus who is a season-ticket holder of 1946 3. Alumni preference sale will open on July 1 and close on record may re-order his season-tickets but in so doing will July 25. 
thereby relinquish his alumni priority for home games. Similarly, an alumnus who exercises his alumni preference 4. General public sale will open on August 1, as heretofore, wll not be entitled to the concessions which ^vill be made 
for all games except the Ai-my game, for which no public to parents of students for Army tickets, even though he sale will be possible. 
may be the father of a Notre Dame student or students. 
5. General public blanks w l be mailed to all alumni, whether 8. As the season-ticket will include the Ai-my game, season-or not in good standing, prior to opening of public sale on ticket sales ^vill be frozen at the 1946 figure in order to August 1. No Army game application will be included and accommodate the other classes of purchasers. Alumni and a re-statement of the alumni ticket policy •nnll accompany others who wei'e season-ticket holders in 1946 may re-order this mailing. but may not increase their 1946 orders. 
Army Game Allocation: 

Resei-ved Seat Capacity (Notre Dame Stadium)..  53,46S  
Alumni (7,000 at 2 tickets each)  14,000  
Student Body and Students' Wives  „..  5,000  
Season-tickets  8,000  
Parents of Notre Dame Students (geographic limitations tentative)  6,000  
West Point Allotment  ;  14,000  
University (Sub-quotas to be determined for Administration, Fac­ 
ulty, Employees, Community, St. Mary's, Press, and Benefactoi-s  6,468  
53,468  

IG 







