The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

THE NOTRE DAME 
I i 

ALUMNUS 
^^^e haol 
**rt^ rli-ih 
^p^ 


x;-^ 
'v^^Mt:, ^^^ 



U. N. D. Night April 19 
BROWNSON HALL 
April. 1937 No. 7 
Pronounced Alma-naris 
SUPERCARBONATED 


CUaXoA. 
Notre Dame Alumni enjoy good living. In their own homes, se­cluded from the roar and rush of business or profession, they appreciate the delights of fine food and true refreshment. Almanaris Supercarbonated Water adds an extra sparkle to an evening at home, as it does to the conviviality of the club or the gayety of the smart crowds in America's leading hotels. 
Have you tried it? 

When in South Bend, get togeth­er with your memories (and Ahncmaris) at the Hoifmann Hotel. 
THE HOFFMANN HOTEL 
JACOB HOFFMANN. PRESIDENT 

The magazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The 
subscription price is 32.00 a yeai : the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE 
ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post oflice at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
^K.  m  
/f£ WAS RUSM/NG TO  
"m  HER,„W//£lif FA^G/ ...A sioW'Ourf  


REX BEACH 
well-known author 


Read REX BEACH'S thrilling True Story of the man who is living on ''Borrowed Time'' 
H^ Stilling leaped into his car—'20 —25—30—35—40'readthespeedometer. It was nine-thirty at night. There was no time to spare. 'Faster! Faster!" And then —without warning—BANG! A blow-out! The car leaped out of control like a wild­cat—swerved to the left—just missed crashing headlong into a telephone pole! 
Escaped By Inches 

Yes, Constable Stilling, of Philadelphia, came within an inch of never reaching his home. But Lady Luck smiled that night—and the extent of his injury was a wrenched shoulder. Some miracle had saved him. As he, himself, says: "I feel now that I am living on 'borrowed time.' 
Altogether too often, screaming bead lines carry tales of disaster wrought by blow-outs. From reliable sources I have been told that thousands are killed or injured when blow-outs throw cars out of control. And small wonder. 
Just stop to consider what happens to your tires when you're skimming over the pavements at SO, 60 miles an hour. 
Naturally the heat generated is terrific, and you're totally unaware of it because the trouble begins inside the tire. A tiny invisible blister may form between the rubber and the fabric. Just a little thing to begin with, this blister keeps getting bigger and BIGGER and the worst part is that you don't know it's there until BANG! And then it may be too late. 
*' The ear leaped out of control like a trildeal—juat mieeed a telephone pole. 
It's a fact that engineers are doing every­thing in their power to make driving safe. But it seems to me that as far as tires are concerned, the greatest single con­tribution has been from Goodrich en­gineers. They have developed a real blow­out protection called the Golden Ply, found only in Goodrich Silvertown Tires. 
It is a layer of special rubber and full-floating cords, scientifically treated to resist internal tire heat. You can easily see what this means. Blisters don't get a chance to form between the rubber and fabric inside your tires and that means blow-outs due to this heat don't get staned. 
Thai's certainly one protection every­one should invest in—especially when Silvertowns, I am told, are priced lower than many other super-quality tires. 
Don't YOU Take Chances 

You can be sure that Constable Stilling doesn't take any chances with his tires these days. He's ready for any emergency and so are his Goodrich Silvertown Tires. Here is another enrollment in the ranks 
of safe drivers who feel that tires which protect people from the dangers of high speed blow-outs are a vital form of life insurance. Remember, you can buy these life-saving Silvertowns at Goodrich Sil­vertown Stores and Goodrich dealers everywhere. 
d-iC^
£A^ 



Goodrich Silvertown 
(Mease favar aur advertisers when checkini caupon facing Page VII, of Rear Advartisinf Saclian. Tlwwfc yay ^ TW EjWar.) 
IV. 


CORONA 
THE FIRST PORTABLE! 
Clear, concise Corona typing leads youngsters to cle;ir, concise tliinkiii-r. It crejites liabits ofne.-it writing and neat tliinking wliicli carry through in alter life. Helps in getting, holding and im­j)roving jobs. 
Think of a Corona as an investaient in a lifetime of good-habit building. An easy investment too — 
As low as $1.00 a week 

Nearly 2 million sold. And the new speed" models are the best yet. Write for free booklet or ask j'our dealer. 
THE ONLY PORTABLE WITH THE FLOATING SHIFT 
L C SMITH & CORONA TTPEVnHTERS INX Desk i, 163 Almond St., SSTacuse, N. Y. I'd like the free folder about your different Corori:t models and their prices. 
iVuiiK! ; 

POST-GRADUATE QUIZ 

Score one point for every correct answer. A graduate ten years out of collese should set ten answers right. Answers appear on Page VII. of rear advertising section. Write in your score on coupon facing Page VII. 

QUESTIONS 

. Where do immigrants first land on arriving in Ne w York Harbor? 
. What governor of what state attained national prominence as the result of a police strike in the state capital? What style of writing did the early Babylonians use? What is coral? In America, what corresponds to the "hire-purchase" system of England? What is the name of the drops which oculists use to enlarge the pupil of the eye? 
For what popular saying is Dr. Emil Coue responsible? 
Who is referred to by the expression "Tommy Atkins"? In what state is each of the following: 
(a)Amherst College, (b) Dartmouth Col­lege, (c) Drake University, (d) Island Stanford, Jr. University, (e) Centre College? What is a paynim? 
Who is responsible for the phrase: "Open covenants openly arrived at"? What British essayist and novelist was famous for his many paradoxes? What is the purpose of a Binet-Simon test? 
A ride on what winged steed is reputed to give inspiration to poets? What product is advertised by the slogan: "Chases dirt"? What Chicago lawyer was counsel for John Thomas Scopes in the Tennessee evolution case at Dayton? For what words do the initials "e.g." stand? What is the Latin derivation of the word Fascism? What is meant by "The Old Lady of Threadneedle Street"? What is a bittern? From what is linen made? What slang name was given to cattle thieves in the early days of the American west? 
What was Woodrow Wilson's vocation before he became Governor of Ne w Jersey? What is a "common carrier"? What product is advertised by the slogan: "It floats"? 
Answers to this Quiz are on 
Page VII. of Rear Advertisins 
Section. Please write your 
score on coupon facing Page 
VII. and mail today. 
NATIONAL ADVERTISING NcAOquARniis FOR THIS MAGAZINE 


TfiEGRADIMTEGRIiV 
Conditioning— 
The Modern Miracle that affects the health, the happiness, and the pocketbooks of us all 
TH E orderly revolution which the world knows as air conditioning is your affair. It is destined to affect your daily life, j'our health and—whether you will or not—your pocketbook. Air Conditioning, as General Motors sees it, is a year 'round matter. In the winter it is founded on automatic heating .. . in the summer on automatic cooling. And throughout the year it includes the control of moismre, freshness and clean­liness in even" bit of air you breathe. Overnight it is changing buying habits —rental figures—propertj' values. You owe it to j'ourself as a respon­sible business man to investigate the entire subject. See your local Delco-Frigidaire dealer or write to Delco-Frigidaire Conditioning Divi­sion, General Motors Sales Corp., Dayton, O, 
DELCO-FRIGIDAIRE 
Automatic Heating, Cooling and Condi­tioning Equipment for every purpose 
DELCO OIL BURNER. Equipped with 
Thin-Mix Fuel Control. DELCO AUTOMATIC FURNACE (oil or gas).Forsteani,hotwaterorvaporsystems. 
DELCO CONDiriONAIR (oil Or gas). For forced warm air systems. It air conditions as it heats. 
FRIGIDAIRE ELECTRIC ROOM COOL­ERS. Low in cost, high in efficiency. Can be used to cool a single room or a group of rooms. 
FRIGIDAIRE CONTROLLED-COST AIR CONDITIONING. For businesses and household installations. 
DELCO WATER HEATER (oil or gas) .. . pracdcal, economic, automatic 
IT PAYS TO TALK TO 
30 ROCKEFELLER PIAIA-NEW YORK­




DELCO-FRIGIDAIRE 

250.000GRADUMES OF 55 LEADING COUEEES The Air Conditioniiig Division of General Motors 
REACHED HfITH0NEAI)VBiTISINSrUIE«l500AM6E 
AUTOMATIC HEATING, COOLING AND CONDITIONING OF AIR 

(Please favor our advertisers when checking coupon facing Rase VII . of Rear Advertising Section. Thank you — The Editor.) 
Of course, I own a Cord, and naturally it's Super-Charged. As someone said; a man counts his years only when ;' he has notliing else to count. I like to go places and do things. My daughter says she likes to dance with me at the night clubs. There is a thrill to the feel of a good gun on a frosty morning, and I can still take a fence behind the hounds. T like to navigate my own boat! When traveling, give me the airlines every time. So you see it is not years but viewpohit that's important. Since 1 dislike the commonplace, it is only natural that I want my motor ^ car to give me pleasure in addition to transportation. While I get a kick out of driving the Cord, it's gratif^'ing ; 
to know that its very power and efficiency make it the safest of cars to drive. 
A U B U R K A U T O .^r O B I L E C O St P A X Y, C O N N E H S V I I, L E. 1 X D I .4 .N A 



CORD 

(Please favor our advertisers when checking coupon facing Page VII. of Rear Advertising Section. Thank you — The Editor.) 


NEW CHEVROLET 1937 
^Ke Qrmptoe Gin.* Grrrtp-Cctefii 7] ear 
You Avant all good things in your new motor car. . . . And you may as well enjoy real savings in purchase price, in operating costs and in upkeep, w^hile getting all desirable motoring advantages. . . . Careful con' sideration will lead you straight to this one car— Chevrolet for 1937—the only complete car—priced so law! 
CHEVROLET MOTOR DIVISION, General Motors Sales Corporation, DETROIT, MICH. 
NEW HICH'COMPtESSION VAIVE-IN.HEAD EN6INE—NEW AU-SILENT, AlUSmL BOOHS—NIW DIAMOND CBOWN SPISDUNI STTUNG —pancrm HTotAuuc BiAns-umovED OUDINO RNEE-AOION BIDE'-SAFIIT Pun eiAss AU ABOUND—OENUINI nsHEK NO DMrr VENniAnON-SUPEK-SAFE SHOCKPIOOF SniUNG*. *KnM-Acliaa aad Tfcnlr|iraif Stutkmoa MasfM- DaU»» modals enlr. 
Ganaml Maters Instaflmsiit Plan—mentlily paywt e to salt yoor porta. 
(Hease favor our advertisers when checking coupon facing Page VII. of Rear Advertising Section. Thank you — The Editor.) 




The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. 15 APRIL. 1937 No. 7 
Nationwide Observance of 14th U.N.D. Night 
Studebaker Hour Offers National Hook-up to Lead 
Radio Voice of Notre Dame; Local Stations Again Co­
operate with Clubs—^April 19 To Make New History 
Keyed by a nation-wide broadcast througli the courtesy of the Stude­baker Corporation and its Champions program, out of CMcago through the facilities of the National Broadcast­ing Company's blue network, at 10:00 Eastern Standard Time, the Four­teenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night moves on toward another golden milestone. Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, and the University Glee Club will partici­pate in the national broadcast. 
In addition, more than 60 local stations, from coast to coast, as listed below, have promised co-operation in recognizing the Night on their pro­grams. The notice this year was short, and the Alunini Office takes this opportunity to thank the several Stations and the Studebaker Corpora­tion for their co-operation. The Clubs are urged to co-operate in turn with the local station, and to ecpress their appreciation to any similar agency which aids in making the Night truly universal, especially for those many alumni and friends who are not with­in areas where the 85 Clubs are hold­ing meetings. 
Following are the local stations that have promised co-operation in local recognition of the Night, to­gether with the time of such pro­grams where given (othenvise watch your local radio announcements): 
ARIZONA  
KOY  Phoenix  
CALIFORNIA  
KXO  :EI Centre  
KTRB  Modesto  
KSFO  San Francisco  
COLORADO  
KFEL  .  .Denver  
KLZ  Denver  
COJTNECTICUT  
WICC  Bridgeport  
D.C.  
WJSV  .Washington  
FLORIDA  
WFOY  St. Augustine  
GEORGIA  
WTOC  Savannah  

IDAHO KIDO 
ILLINOIS WHBF WCBS 
INDIANA WEOA WOWO & WGL WIRE WLBC 9:30-10:00 P. M WSBT & WFAM 
IOWA KFNF 
KANSAS 
 Boise 
 Rock Island  Springfield 
 .Evansville  Jort Wayne  .Indianapolis  .Muncie  South Bend 
 Shenandoah 

KCKN 8:30-9:00 P. M.....Kansas City LOUISIANA 
WJBW  JTew Orleans  
KRMD  Shreveport  
MARYLAND  
WBAI  Baltimore  
MICHIG-4.N  .  

(Michigan Radio Network, which includes:) WXYZ 9:15-9:30 P. M J)etroit WBCM 9:15-9:30 P. M .Bay City WELL 9:15-9:30 P. M Battle Creek WFDF 9:15-9:30 P. M JTint WOOD 9:15-9:30 P. M...Grand Rapids WIBM 9:15-9:30 P. M Jackson WKZO 9:15-9:30 P. M. .Kalamazoo WJIM 9:15-9:30 P. M. .Lansing 
MICHIGAN WJMS 1:30-2:00 P. M .Ironwood 
MINNESOTA WIWFG .nibbing KROC Rochester 
MISSISSIPPI WCOC .Meridian 
MISSOURI KWOS Jefferson City Sunday, Apr. 18,1:00 P. M. 
K. of C. Crusade Hour KWK 6:30 P.M. St. Louis 
NEBRASKA KGFW Kearney 
NEW YORK 

WABY&WOKO  Albany  
WMBO  ..-Auburn  
WNBF  6:45 P. M  3inghamton  
WKBW  Buffalo  

Variety Show, 8:15-8:45 P. M. WINS 6:30-6:45 P. M. New York City WMFF .Plattsburg WSAY .Rochester WWRL 10:30 P.M. .. .Woodside 
NORTH CAROLINA WSOC Charlotte WBIG 9:00-9:15 P. M Greensboro 
WFTC KRMC KSLM WGAR 
WHIO WBLY 
KTUL. WCAU WWSW 
 .Kinston NORTH DAKOTA 
 7:00P. M .Jamestown 
OREGON  9:15-9:30P.M.... ..Salem 
OHIO ..Cleveland 
 8:13-8:30 P. M  .Dayton  
 JJma  
OKLAHOMA  
-Tulsa  
PENNSYLVANIA  

 Philadelphia 11:00-11:10 P.M.  Pittsburgh SOUTH DAKOTA 

KOBH 7:00-7:15 P. M Jtapid City 
TEXAS WBAP J'ort Worth 
UTAH KLO Ogden KEUB 7:30-7:45P.M. Price KDYI ..— Salt Lake City 
VIRGINIA WGH .. JTewiwrt News 8:15-8:30 P. M.,E.S.T. WTAR Jforfolk 
WEST VIRGINIA WSAZ .Huntington 
174 The Notre Dame Alumnus April, 1937 
CMee^s of CMjoirc Jjamc 
Current Graduate Scholarships for 1937-38 ^250 to ?750 
NOTE: The University of Nolle Dame announces that Ine graduate courses 
in apolonetics. first offered in September, 1936, will continue in the schoolyear 
1937-38. These courses, which extend ever a t»vo-year period, are given by well 
qualified teachers and lead to the degree of master of arts. Visiting members of 
the faculty for 1937-38 will include E. I. Watkin, Chriitopher Mollis, and 
Arnold Lunn. 

A limited number of scholarships, covering board, room, and tuition, will be 
available. Recipients of these scholarships will be chosen from among men 
graduates of American universities and colleges, who will have completed an 
adequate training in scholastic philosophy before September, 1937, and who 
show an exceptional ability in writing. The candidate must present with his 
letter of application an original essay of not less than 1500 words on a subject 
of his choice. Further demonstration of ability may be required. No application 
will be accepted after May 1, 1937. Character references also are to be sub­
mitted. Address correspondence to Rev. Philip Moore, CS.C. Secretary, 
Graduate Committee, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
9n Social Qroup ^iiork 
Ten ^300 scholarships are awarded by the Knights of Columbus. 

9n Social Case Qiork 
Ten ^300 scholarships are given by the University. In connection with these scholarships there is an accompanying service requirement of academic nature. 
Prercqubites for these two groups are: a college degree, good scholar­ship, and adequate backgroimd in the social sciences. 

Cfraauale Cxsiislaizlslups 
A small number of graduate assistantships in the departments of mathematics and physics (with stipends of ^500 or ^750) are available for qualified students who have a bachelor's degree from a well-accred­ited imiversity or college. A limited service as teacher (only after first year of graduate work at the University) or laboratory assistant is required. The graduate assistant pays the matriculation fee (if not already paid) and the tuition fee for the courses in which he registers. H e is exempt from all other fees. 
Facilities for research are available in the following fields: Mathe­matics—metric geometry and its application; the calculus of variations; the theory of curves; the axioraatics of geometry; in Physics—^X-rays; electronics; high-energy photons and their interaction with matter, the theory of nuclear constitution and chemical trammutarions; the theory of high-energy photons and their interaction with matter; quantum statistics as applied to metals; the theory of relativity and axiomatics of physics; the theory of the universe. 

^rieaieval Sluoici 
The University would like also to offer graduate scholarships in th: courses for graduate students in the department of philosophy, which occupy two major fields, modem philosophy of religion, and medieval philosophy. The program of courses in medieval studies includes courses in medieval philosophy, and in medieval history and auxiliary sdences. 
(Sig.) JOHN F. O'HARA, CS.C. 
(ED. NOTE: The above information is reprinted from the several bulletins of the Graduate Committee and the Registrar, so that alumni may know the progress being made in graduate study aX Noire Dame, and may possibly, by financial aid as suggested in the request from Father O'Hara this month, further this movement. 
Notre Dame, by its present personnel and equipment, by its geographical location, and by its tradition, is well equipped to pursue the work it has outlined in the graduate fields. Financial assistance is desirable, to further the work from the University's viewpoint, and to offer opportunities to the many qualified young men of our own and other institutions to continue their studies without undue hardship.) 


Mathematicians To Meet 
Leading Scholars To Gather On Campus 
A two-day discussion of important problems of higher mathematics, led by 12 of the country's outstanding authorities in this field, will be held at Notre Dame on Wednesday and Thursday, April 7 and 8. 
The symposium •iviU immediately precede the Spring meeting of the American Mathematical Society in Chicago. It will be concerned solely with one branch of higher mathemat­ics—^the Calculus of Variations—^to­gether with applications of this sci­ence to economics and physics. 
Professor Marston Morse, of the Institute of Advanced Study at Princeton, will direct discussion the first day. Papers will be presented by Professors Gilbert A. Bliss, Law­rence A. Graves, and William T. Reid, of the University of Chicago. In the Wednesday afternoon session. Profes­sor Tibor Rado, Ohio State Univer­sity; Professor Walter Mayer, Insti­tute of Advanced Study, Princeton; and Professor Sumner B. Myers, Uni­vei-sity of Michigan, will speak. 
On Thursday, papers will be pre­sented by Professor Marston Morse, Institute of Advanced Study; Profes­sor Edward J. McShane, tlniversity of Virginia, and Professor Karl Men­ger, University of Notre Dame, for­merly of Vienna University. 
The latter half of Thursday's meet­ing will be devoted to practical appli­cations of the Calculus of Variations to economics and physics. Taking part in this discussion will be Dr. Charles F. Roos, New York City, for­mer mathematical economist advisor to N.R.A.; Professor Lothar W. Nord­heim, Purdue Universitj', and Profes­sor Arthur Haas, of Notre Dame. 
Although one of the most absti-act of scientific subjects, the Calculus of Variations, dealing with maximum and minimum problems of curves and surfaces, has many important practi­cal applications. Streamlining of au­tomobiles, airplanes and railroad equipment presents one application in the mechanical field, since Calculus of Variations makes it possible to compute the form of surface which will provide minimum air resistance. 
In economics, one of the most im­portant problems today is the plotting of production curves over long per­iods for industry. For this and other types of production curves. Calculus of Variations supplies the key for plan­ning. 

April, 1937 The Notre Da Aiu 175 

March—And the March Is On 
\ 
By JAMES E. ARMSTRONG 

Association Program, Under Vigorous Leadership of President Hughes, With Co-operation of Local Clubs and Outside Groups, Attracts Nation-wide Attention 
(Don't get excited by that by-line. I just want you to be sure who's blowing the horn.) 
The comprehensive itinei-aiy out­lined by President Arthur J. Hughes in the March ALUJINUS, as the cry­stallization of his program to bring the influence of the Association into the Clubs and the broader fields which they include, was just a little fast for the old machine. But new gears are being installed. Not one Club said no, and the only change is a few post­ponements of the original dates. 
Meantime, President Hughes, ac­companied by the Alumni Secretary, has visited four Clubs and proved the potentialities of the plan. 
Intensive work in April and May will follow the original schedule. Meantime, in March, President Hughes filled in dates left open by the Clubs with various meetings spon­sored by K. of C. and other organiza­tions, devoting at least two nights each week on an average to this work of the Association in supplying an in­formed leadership in a national prob­lem involving Catholic principles. 
Generally speaking, co-operation of alumni has been splendid. Response from outside has been equally encour­aging. Priests of the parishes. Cath­olic and patriotic organizations, have been most effective in joining the Notre Dame progi-ams. Particularly notable has been the easy blending of the Knights Crusade of the K. of C. with our plan. 
As for the general subject, the need for an awareness of Communism and the constructive spread of Catho­lic principles answering its claims, the recent Papal Encyclical, the in­creasing and improving literature on the Catholic pamphlet racks, and the voices of a growing numher of Cath­olic clergj' and Catholic organizations, together with civic and patriotic or­ganizations, prove beyond question that we were not too soon nor too ex­cited. Rather, for a happy once, a timely need of the nation, offering an opportunity tailor-made for our men of Notre Dame, was defined for our members. Realization of this and outside response to it has not only been encouraging but has increased the intellectual and social and Catho­lic stature of our alumni. 
So that all this may not be left for expression at some remote date in flowers and spiritual bouquets, this seems like a good time to pay a de­served tribute to the man whose vis­ion and ability and hard work have brought all this about, Arthur J. Hughes, Ph.B. '11, LL.B. '17, presi­dent of the Association. 
There have been a few rumors fil­ter back to headquarters. I trust they are unique, but it would be un­fair to President Hughes, with or without the motive of spiking these, to let his contribution to this great cause go unrecognized. 
The practical application of the Communism fight to the program of our Alumni -Association was largely the vision of Art Hughes. After his election as president, he spent much time discussing details with various leaders, Notre Dame, clerical and lay. As a result he crossed the ocean and visited the Holy Father in private audience with the plan. It was heart­ily endorsed by Pope Pius XI in per­son and his blessing bestowed on all participating in it. Following his re­turn. President Hughes has read and spoken extensively, ali-eady, in pro­moting this great opportunity for Catholic college graduates to I'ender an outstanding sen'ice to country as well as to God. 
President Hughes will have spent, from my own estimate, a good three months of the current year in the di­rect promotion of the program of the Association, by Commencement. I cannot estimate the expense in­volved. 
But this you ought to know, now— all of his time, and all of the expenses he has incuri-ed from the beginning, have been contributed, in his convic­tion that Notre Dame men owe it to themselves and to Notre Dame to oc­cupy a place of dignity and a place of leadership in the American alumni world, and the American Catholic world especially. 
DETROIT 

The first of the ofiicial meetings, held January 25 at Notre Dame, with the St. Joseph Valley Club and the students in joint session, you know. The so-called and comprehensive "itin­erary" was launched in Detroit on March 1, with a meeting of the Club at the University Club. 
More than 100 alumni gathered and the meeting, a closed Club func­tion, was dedicated to the memory of Rockne. Charles E. "Gus" Dorais was toastmaster, enlightening a very at­tentive audience with many personal anecdotes of Rockne as a student. 
Anthony J. Beck, editor of the Michigan Catholic, Arthur Maguire, head of the associated Catholic or­ganizations of Detroit, and Sam Greene, sports columnist of the De­troit News, were among the guests of the club. 
President Hughes presented the As­sociation's program and urged the extension of the interest in Commun­ism and its inroads through our alum­ni to other agencies. Both Mr. Beck and Mr. Maguire endorsed the Asso­ciation's stand and likewise urged a united Catholic and civic resistance through the building up of right principles. 
PEORIA 

President Hughes addressed the Peoria alumni and guests in the K. of C. auditorium there on the night of March 18. A dinner of the Club members with President Hughes and the Alumni Secretary as guests was held immediately before the meeting at the Jefferson Hotel. 
George Sprenger, '08, was chair­man of the meeting, Bradley Prescott, ex. '31, presiding. The Club is most interested in the program, and is planning a follow-up local program in Peoria, where Communism has made considerable headway. 
TWIN CITIES 

The Notre Dame Club of the Twin Cities and St. Stephen's parish, Min­neapolis, under the pastor. Rev. Thomas E. Cullen, were hosts to President Hughes at a meeting in the St. Stephen parish hall on the night of March 22. Some 600 persons, in­cluding most of the alumni in St. Paul and Minneapolis, heard President Hughes' address. In a most forceful endorsement of the Notre Dame pro­gram. Father Cullen urged the sup­port of the entix'e audience for the general movement. Neil Cronin, prominent labor mediator of the Northwest, presided at the meeting. Among the guests on the platform were the Alumni Secretary and Dr. Edward W. Pahey, Supreme Phj-si­cian of the Knights of Columbus. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY 

On the night of March 23, Presi­dent Hughes spoke to the Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley and more than 300 guests in St. Pat­rick's parish hall, Dixon, 111. Gerald Jones, '22, presided at the meeting. Father Burke, assistant pastor, and the Sisters of the school, were guests of honor, as were a number of the pastors of surrounding cities. 
As in preceding meetings, the Notre Dame program met with enthusiastic response and the promise of further co-operation both from the alumni and from the general audience. 
There seems no doubt that Noti-e Dame, through President Hughes, has identified itself and the alumni vnth one of the most significant national and Catholic movements of the pres­ent century. Father O'Hara has ex­pressed the co-operation of the Uni­versity. Cardinal Mundelein gave his approbation before President Hughes left for Rome last September, And the Holy Father was outspoken in his praise of the plan, and gave the pro­gram and those who participate in it his apostolic blessing. 
For alumni who wish to enlarge the scope of their knowledge of the cur­rent situation regarding Communism, and to strengthen their Catholic prin­ciples as Communism denies them, the ALUMNUS suggests the following reading matter: 
FACTS ABOUT COMMUNISM, by Edward Lodge Curran, published by the International Catholic Truth Societj', 407 Bergen St., BrookhTi, 
N. Y. Price not listed. 

COMMUNISM ANSWERS THE QUESTIONS OP A COMMUNIST, by Msgr Pulton Sheen. 
JUST WHAT IS COMMUNISM? by Raymond T. Feely. 
THE TACTICS OF COMMUNISM, by Msgr. Sheen. 
A CATECHISM OF COMMUNISM FOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS, by a Passionist Father. 
All of the above group published by the Paulist Press, 401 W. 59th St., New York City, §3.50 a hun­dred, §30 a thousand, carriage extra. 

COMMUNISM IN THE U. S. A., bv 
J. F. Thoming. 

COMMUNIST ACTION vs. CATHO­LIC ACTION, by Helen Toole. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus April. 1937 

Dr. Ford Is Laetare Medalist 
Harvard Professor Receives Traditional Award for 1937 
Dr. Jeremiah D. M. Ford, chairman of the department of Romance lan­guages of Harvard University and Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, is the 1937 recipi­ent of the Laetare Medal, bestowed annually since 1883 by the University of Notre Dame upon an outstanding member of the Catholic laity. 
Last year's award was made to Richard Reid, lawyer and educator 
Da. J. D. M. FOKD 
55th Medalist. 

COMMUNISM AN D AMERICAN YOUTH, by Hon. Harry McDevitt 
COMMUNISM AND THE CATHO­LIC ANSWER, by John Lafarge. 
All the above group published by the America Press, 461 Eighth Ave., New York City, ?4 a hun­dred, $30 a thousand, postage extra on bulk orders. 

GLEE CLUB RE-UNION 

A re-union of former Glee Club members is in prospect. Following the Glee Club concert in Cleveland on February 8, Jack Reidy, '27, John Butler, '27, Pred Wagner, '29, and Jerry Reidy, '30, got together with Professor Joe Casasanta and dis­cussed the possibilities of a gathering of the old songsters at the coming Commencement. It was suggested that the returning group could be united for one or two songs. 
More later, if the idea materializes 3 of Augusta, Georgia, and editor of The Bulletin, official weekly publica­tion of the Catholic Laymen's Asso­ciation of Georgia. In 1935 the honor went to Frank Hamilton Spearman, Callfomia novelist, while Mrs. Gene­vieve Garvan Brady, New York phi­lanthropist, received the medal in 1934. 

Announcing the award, Rev. John 

F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame and chairman of the Laetare Medal Committee, made the following statement: "Catholic scholarship is recognized in this year's award of the Laetare Medal. For more than 40 years Professor Ford has contributed in a very scholarly way to our knowl­edge and appreciation of Spanish and French literature. He has fostered international understanding and re­spect, which is a vital basis of world peace." 
Dr. Ford has been active in higher education since 1895 when he first went to Harvard as an instructor in French. Since then, for his work in literature and history both here and abroad he has received academic awards from a dozen European na­tions, and decorations from four: France, Italy, Rumania and Spain. 
Contributor of Spanish and Italian articles to the Encyclopedia Ameri­cana, the Catholic Encyclopedia, and Johnson's Encyclopedia, he has au­thored and edited more than a score of texts and anthologies in French, Spanish, Italian and Portuguese. 
Dr. Ford has recently ser\'ed as president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Dante So­ciety, and the Italian Historical Soci­ety of Massachusetts. Among others, he is a member of the American As­sociation for the Advancement of Sci­ence, American Catholic Historical So­ciety, American Folk-Lore Society, and numerous international groups. 
Since 1911, Dr. Ford has headed Harvard's department of Romance Languages. He was bom in Cam­bridge, Mass., July 2, 1873, is mar­ried and the father of four children. He receivecj his Ph.D. at Harvard in 1897, holds honorary degrees from the University of Toulouse (France) and the National University of Ire­land. He has served as guest lecturer at the University of Paris and at the Spanish University. 
Dr. Ford will be the 55th recipient of the award, presentation of which will take place at some future date not yet determined. 
April, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 



Religion In American Life 
People may be divided into two great classes, according to the way they look at life. The philosophers of naturalism regard life in this vis­ible world as the only life with which we need concern ourselves. The phi­losophers of supematuralism call this life merely a preparation for another life. 
We need not consider now the in­finity of subdivisions of these tivo schools of thought. Whether the nat­uralist calls this the best possible world or the worst, his concern stops at the grave. Whether he denies or merely doubts the existence of the soul or its immortality, the effect is the same. The line of cleavage I want to indicate Is the line that sep­arates naturalism and supematural­ism; for the problem I am asked to discuss involves the diverse mental and moral attitudes towards citizen­ship which arise from these two modes of thought. 
The sense of responsibility may be taken as a test of citizenship. To whom does the citizen acknowledge responsibility? To himself alone? The individualist, in his crudest mo­ments, is his own lawmaker, his own judge. To himself and his neighbor? With the possible exception of cer­tain criminal elements in our popula­tion, all American citizens acknowl­edge some obligation to society—to parents, to at least certain classes of their fellow-citizens, to units of gov­ernment. To what other authority do men voluntarily submit? Those who follow a philosophy of superna­tui-alism, religious men, show in their lives, to at least some degree, a sense of responsibility to themselves, to their neighbor, and to God. They acknowledge God as their Creator and their last end; they see Him as the Author of rights, of their own and of their neighbor's rights: their actions towards themselves and to­wards their neighbor are conditioned by their attitude towards God, an at­titude perhaps of fear, perhaps of love, perhaps of both. 
To make these considerations more concrete, let me borrow from Father Hull a statement of two parallel scales of motives, one in the natural, the other in the supernatural order. Father Hull indicates that the natural man, when faced with a moral prob­lem, may be assisted to good conduct 
By REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, CS.C 
An Address at the Annual Convention of the National Catholic Education Asso­ciation, Louisville, Kentucky, March 31 
by one or more of the following mo­tives : 
1.
 Love of virtue for itself; 

2.
 Considerations of self respect and family honor; 

3.
 Prudent regard for social or financial security; . 

4.
 Pure and simple fear of the police. 



The supernatural man has all these motives at his disposal, and has, in addition, four analogous motives that lie in the supernatural order. These are: 
1.
 Love of God for Himself be­cause He is all-good; 

2.
 Considerations of gratitude to God for His favors; 

3.
 The ambition to enjoy heaven; 


4.
 The unadulterated fear of hell. Now, two good reasons are better than one, and eight are better than four. We may say also that the higher the motive the purer the con­duct. But in dealing with mankind we must be realistic enough to rec­ognize that not all men respond to higher motives, and that relatively few respond to the highest motives. We know that in the supernatural order there are more men moved by the fear of hell than by the pure love of God. Similarly, we must acknowl­edge that men who have cast oif su­pernatural motives and natural love of virtue, who have broken family • ties and have even lost concern for social position, may still have a sal­utary fear of life imprisonment or capital punishment. We must, there­fore, despise no motive that can as­sist the weak to any measure of civic virtue; but for the promotion of such \"irtue in its nobler degrees, we must inculcate in ever}' way possible the 


highest motives to which a man may respond. 
What position, then, should religion occupy in American life? 
For the benefit of our separated brethren, most of whom are as con­cerned as we are about social and civic virtue, let us go for advice to George Washington rather than to St. Thomas Aquinas. It is beside the point that St. Thomas, through Bel­larmine, laid down the principles of 
political liberty that are embodied in 
our Constitution. George Washing­
ton may enter where St. Thomas still 
knocks in vain. 
When Washington announced to the American people that he would not accept a third term as President, he saw fit to give them, in a Farewell -Address, the mature fruit of his ob­servations on political felicity. In solemn and sincere words, he told us that "morality is a necessary spring of popular government," and that there is no national morality without religion. Analysis of his advice yields the following points: 
1.
 Religion and morality are indis­pensable supports of political prosperity; 

2.
 No man is a patriot who at­tempts to subvert religion and morality; 

3.
 There is no security for prop­erty, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious ob­ligation deserts the oaths which are the instruments of investigation in courts of jus­tice; 

4.
 Season and experience show that religion is essential to national morality. 



For George Washington, then, re­ligion meant national security; its absence meant insecurity. For Wash­ington, the mutual trust essential to democracy depends in its iinal analy­sis upon the religious obligations un­derlying the oath. For Washington, the enemy of religion was the enemy of popular government. 
In what measure, we may ask, have we heeded Washington's advice? The answer, I am sorry to say, it not re­assuring. The hold of religion on the American people has declined rapidly, especially since the turn of the cen­tury. And the cost of crime has mounted in proportion as religion has declined. From various sources we learn that probably not over forty per cent of our population has any religious affiliation; and while the proportion of our citizens who have a belief in God and in the supernatural life is, I am convinced, much higher than forty per cent, the appalling lack of religious instruction in the lives of even religious people outside the Catholic Church, is wearing religious conviction thinner and thinner. At 
April, 1937 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the turn of the century the great mass of Protestants, of whatever de­nomination, held in common Tvith Catholics the great fundamental truths of Christianity. They believed in the existence of God and of the supernatural life, the immortalitj' of the soul, the di\-ine authority behind the Ten Commandments, the exist­ence of grace, the efficacy of prayer, the reality of heaven and hell; they accepted the historical proofs of the Divinity of Christ and the consequent divine authoritj- of Christ's teachings. 
That was at the beginning of the century. In 1907, our Holy Father, Pope Pius X, found it necessaiy to point out the existence of a funda­mental, insidious heresy, to which he gave the name of Modernism. Driven from cover by the decisive action of Pope Pius, such modernists as there were within the Catholic fold could no longer bore from within; but in the Protestant denominations, which lacked the centi-al teaching and rul­ing authoritj' of the Catholic Church, the infilti-ation went on at an alarm­ing pace, until at the present time more than half of the Protestant cler­gj'men in this country, if we are to credit numerous partial sun-eys made by them within their own member­slup, deny one or more, or perhaps all, of the fundamental truths of Christianity which I have listed as the common beliefs of Catholics and Protestants forty years ago. 
Supernatural Sanction 

What remains of Christianity when the supernatural is removed? After looking over numerous bleached skel­etons, I am not sure what I know. Christ affirmed His Dirinitj' under oath and gave His life to support His word. While as a Teacher of natural morality Christ had no peer, why fol­low Him if He lied about His Dign­ity? The sanction He proposed for His law was the superaatural sanction of heaven and hell. I am not pre­pared to believe that by personifying Humanity and clothing it with the purple robe of sentimentalitj' the Apostles could have turned the disso­lute pagans of Rome into saints and martyrs; so neither do I expect the gunmen, the i-acketeers, the adulter­ers, and the extortioners of today to rally to the call of Social Service— even -tt-ith a capital S, They want their S to have a perpendicular mark through it. 
No; Washington was right. He made due allowance for the natural virtue of a certain class of citizens whose conduct is guided by loftj' principles outside the usual channels of grace, but he regarded them as exceptional. He said: "Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Whatever may be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure, reason and experience both forbid us to ex­pect that national morality can pre­vail in exclusion of religious prin­ciple." 
To' get quickly to the heart of the problem, let us face the fact that the 2-emoval of supernatural motives for good conduct constitutes today a di­rect peril to American life. For too many people, only fear of the police is a deterrent from crime. And we must face the ugly fact that the av­erage age of our criminal element is lower than ever before. One-seventh of our criminals are below voting age; more than 700,000 of our youth of 21 or less have been apprehended for some type of law infi-action. 
Concerning Prison Life 

Is fear of the police effective ? Ap­parently not. Between corruption on the one hand and humanitarian sen­timentalism on the other, the criminal decides to take a chance. In a recent address to the students of the Uni­versitj' of Notre Dame, the exception­ally able Director of the Bureau of Federa l Investigation, J. Edgar Hoover, declared: 
"We are amazed to leam that there is no such thing as a life prisoner but that the average man who receives a life sentence stays only about ten years behind bars and, even then, may be granted the benefits of the i:adio, of the daily newspaper, of what magazines he may desire. He may have the latest movies, baseball, handball, basketball, and football, and any other amusement which over-sympathetic and sob-sister wardens or prison boards may contrive in or­der that he may better enjoy his stay behind bars. Many an honest man during the teiTible hardships of the depression, which, fortunately, is lift­ing its weight from our shoulders, suffered far more in his desire to re­main a decent citizen of worth and integrity than those cowards who could not stand adversity and who scuttled into some of our prisons that they might take advantage of the amusements, the fine food, the sound of orchestras, the lilt of the radio, the latest news morning and evening in hand decorated cells, the doors of which remained open and with name plates to designate their place of abode." 
So much for the criminal fringe. Short of criminalitj', there are many signs of a weakened moral fabric which wrecks souls today and breeds criminals tomorrow. In exclusion of religious principles, homes are broken by divorce and made childless by birth control. The popular taste in reading and entertainment is deca­dent. Respect for property, for rep­utation, for truth, for authority, is seriously weakened. And, as the Holy Father has just pointed out in a no­table encyclical, people who have dis­carded the supernatural have been ensnared by "the false ideal of jus­tice and equality which Communism has held out to the masses, promising the alleviation of many undeniable abuses and the improvement of the condition of the poor workingman." 
What is the responsibility of Cath­olic educators towards this national menace? We have an opportunity and a duty. The vast majority of young people who receive any inten­sive and formal religious instruction are under our care. Some eight per cent of the young people of school age in this country attend Catholic schools. Another tivelve per cent come under our teaching in church and Sunday school. Of the remain­ing eighty per cent, less than a sixth receive any Sunday school insttTic­tion under Protestant auspices, and Protestant leaders generally deploi-e the inadequacy of most of the in­struction that is given. Only Catho­lics and Jews, and to a lesser extent Lutherans, make extensive provision for week-day instruction; and family teaching of religion is neglected en­tirely in more than half of the homes of America. 
Our duty, then, is to intensify our efforts with those children who come under our spiritual care; our oppor­tunity is to make these children real­ize that they must act as a leaven through which the supernatural can be restored to American life. 
Many of you will recall that in the year s immediately following the World War there was industrial un­rest similar to that through which we are passing now. Communists under direct orders from Moscow wormed their way into councils of labor. In the steel strike, the general railroad strike, and the coal strikes of those years, Russian leaders thought they saw an opportunitj- to throw this country into bloody revolution. These Communists are credited with the massacre at Herrin, Illinois; but they failed in their attempt to seize con­trol of organized labor. 
Experiences of a Corporation 

In 1920, shortly after the steel strike, I chanced to call at the New York office of a large corporation for a visit with the welfare director. He told me an interesting story. "I have just returned," he said, "from a \'isit to one of our large subsidiary plants. The president welcomed me and said that he wanted my advice on some­thing. He told me that the pastor of the Catholic parish nearest the plant had called that morning to solicit a donation for a parochial school he planned to build. 'Now, this priest is all right,' he said; 'he is a good friend of ours and a good man, but I stand for the little red schoolhouse every time. That's Americanism.' " 
The welfare director smiled at the president, and then replied: "You don't want advice. Your mind is made up. But I am going to give you some advice, for I see you need it. 
(Continued on Page 195) 

Brother Alexander as a Teacher 
ay BROTHER AIDAN. C.S.C. '27 
The Story of One of the Beloved Legendary 
Figures of Notre Dame Told By a Man Who 
Knew Him Well and Appreciated His Genius 
"God is omniscient, boys," said Father Eegan—^who liked to relate the incident—to his dogma class. "He is omniscient," continued the instruc­tor, "because His knowledge is in­finite. Where, for example, is the man who knows all about mathe­matics?" 
"I know one. Father," replied an alert student. 
"Who?" 
"Brother Alexander." 

And with this young hero-worship­per would agree, I think, the many generations of students who studied mathematics under Brother Alexander in the former preparatory department of the University. 
I have had some thirty teachers, and I remember them all, especially Brother Alexander, who has long filled a niche in my memory. In fact, I can see him, as it were only yester­day, as he strode into classroom 116 in the Administi-ation Building, a bundle of exercise books under his arm. A tall, fine figure of a man, his hair whitening with the snows that never melt, he was then Just past his prime. He had a keen, intellectual face and the look of one born to command. At his entrance there fell upon the class a silence like that one perceives in a court room when the jury files in with its verdict—the si­lence of suspense. For were we not eager to see the solutions to the batch of "specials" that had perplexed us overnight? 
A bom teacher, Brother Alexander found his classroom "dukedom large enough" and probably never was hap­pier than when teaching advanced arithmetic, algebra, or geometry. He had knowledge, chai-acter, and per­sonality—all requisites of the real teacher. In addition, there was noth­ing dull, perfunctory, or mechanical about his methods. No "dispenser of sawdust with a spoon," he stimulated minds rather than stuffed them. Then, too, not only did he make boys learn; but he also inspired them with the desire to learn, something far more difficult. Writing of the young Eton­ians, a poet deplored the fact that they toiled at games and played with books. Brother Alexander had the precious knack of making his stu­dents toil at books. .\nd algebra or geometry texts at that! For him, in­deed, pupils always put their best foot forward; and although other as­signments may have been hurried through, neglected perhaps, or even let go by the board, his, I suspect, i-arely were. He never erred in the way of expecting too little from his classes; consequently, their product, as a rule, rose to his expectations— a fact largely due to the interest he aroused. A court lawyer, unless he interests the jury, loses his case; a teacher, unless he interests his class, teaches in vain. And interest his class. Brother Alexander unfailingly did. Professor Zupitza, according to Mr. Bliss Perry, could make any sub­ject dull; Brother Alexander, I think, could make any subject lively. 
Some of his methods of securing interest may be noted. 
Although an untrained teacher, he knew well that mere telling was not teaching; that the sense of hearing was long ovenvorked in the class­room, and the sense of sight neg­lected. Consequently, his technique— and the subject matter, of course, readily permitted it—called for fre­quent use of the blackboard. Indeed, I never found a teacher to use chalk more freely and deftly. In his hand, in fact, a stick of it became, as it were, so much dynamite ultimately blazing a way to our brains. Years aftei-ward I thought of him as I read Felkin's Letters to a Schoolmaster, in which the author declared that he could almost gauge a teacher's effi­ciency by the amount of chalk dust he shook out o£ his gown at the end of the day. Again, more recently I read, "A stick of chalk is worth a bushel of words." At the blackboard Brother -Alexander accompanied his solutions with lucid explanations that held one's attention. Thus, he wisely multiplied the sense channels as far as possible. 
Another device he used skilfully was a system of daily reviews in the form of special problems. These he made himself or culled from various sources. Many of them were pur­posely difficult; for, although he was the kindest of men, there was nothing "soft" about his pedagogy. The stu­dent "toiling upward in the night," however, felt richly rewarded when, on reading the correct answer to an unusually stiff "special," he received in return a winning smile from Brother Alexander, who, at least in the classroom, was ordinarily a grave man. This plan, too, prepared the class for tests and examinations bet­ter than feverish cramming ever could. Modem pedagogy declares: "Use the cycle or recurrent presenta­tion of the subject matter," and "Have very frequent review lessons." 
Then again, he maintained interest by never speaking above the students' heads. His explanations always ex­plained and somehow found a path to our dull, immature minds. In this respect he never made the mistake of a certain minister of a country church in New England who habitually preached over the heads of his con­gregation, and of whom a shrewd parishioner once remarked, "He puts the fodder too high for the calves." 
A bom teacher like Brother Alex­ander, in fine, knows how to interest students; knows how to get in under their skins to see with their eyes; knows his pedagogy, I presume, as Jack Falstaff knew a prince—^by in­stinct. 
Brother Alexander (Charles Smith) was bom at Watertown, Wisconsin, November 14, 1850. IVom his fa­ther, a pioneer of Southern Wiscon­sin, he once told me, he received his first lessons in arithmetic. From him, too, doubtless he inherited his taste and talent for mathematics. As a boy in Ireland,.the elder Smith prob­ably "met feloniously to learn" in a hedge-school, where scholarship was sought despite appalling obstacles. Besides teaching the classics, these schools specialized in mathematics. It is not surprising, then, that the local almanacs, which as a boy he must have read often, were full of ques­tions from mere crambos and arith­metical puzzles up to problems in ad­vanced mathematics. It is related that the engineers engaged in survey­ing Ireland, using, of course, the principle of triangulation, the yard­stick by which large areas of ground are measured, found lads in abun­dance to do their calculations at a penny a triangle. In this way, Brother 
(Continued on PaRC 195) 
April. 1937 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Construction Started on New Hall 
Will Be Partially on Site of Old Minim Gymnasium 
Construction of a new student dor­mitory at the University was an­nounced in March by Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president. Work, under Thomas Hickey, contractor, be­gan at once. 
The one-story wing of old St. Ed­ward's hall that had seen 50 years of service was torn down to provide part of the new site. Long used as a gym by the Minims, this wing had many hallowed memories. 
The new structure, as yet unnamed, will be a duplicate of the new Cava­naugh hall, which it will face. Of collegiate Gothic architecture in har­mony with the other new buildings, the dormitory will be constructed of brick with limestone trim and slate roof. Its three stories and basement will be completely fireproof. The structure will house 200 students, raising campus room facilities to a capacity of 2,560. 
Fourteen other major buildings have gone up at Notre Dame since 1929, totaling more than $4,500,000 in expenditures. This sustained pro­gram has been an important stabiliz­ing factor in construction work dur­ing the depression, in the area in which the University is located. Ac­cording to estimates of construction firms and building trades union offi­cials, 80% of the skilled labor em­ployed in construction work in St. Joseph county received employed at Notre Dame. 
Last month construction was com­pleted on a $500,000 Hall of Biology that is now being equipped. Erected last year were Cavanaugh Hall, a student dormitory, $300,000; student infirmary, $275,000; a campus post office, $25,000; and $100,000 for con­verting Corby Hall into a faculty-priest cloister with a new wing for refectory and recreation rooms. 
Other construction has included Alumni Hall and Dillon Hall, both student dormitories, the Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce, the John F. Cushing Hall of En^neering, the College of Law, the Stadium, a new Novitiate, and a Steam Plant. 
A stem-winding watch 70 or more years old, a cache of marbles and nuts, and two blood-curdling dime novels, yellow with age, are among the siarange things found by work­men engaged in tearing down the old 
•wing of St. Edward's Hall. 
The wing boasted no cornerstone.­Yet, sealed between its walls and hid­den under the floors and eaves, amus­ing records of other days were brought to light by wreckers who really had no archaeological intent. 
While a section of the old shingled roof was being ripped off with crow­bars, the first strange finding came to light. It was a cache of some 300 marbles intermixed with several dozen nuts—snugly stored away under the eaves. The industrious squirrel that hoarded them must have met with an accident, for the nuts were left to dry into skeletal shells. Whether the squirrel stole the marbles as a prank on the "minims," or whether the squirrel himself was fooled by the marbles will remain an unsolved mys­tery in Notre Dame history. 
In a comer of the attic the work­ers found a pile of youngsters' play­things. Among them were two small sleds, one bearing the name "John Shannon," the other initialed "B. C." A toy wagon, six sets of Indian clubs, a Japanese lantern, three pairs of skiis, a set of carpenter's tools, and part of an old Pathe phoiiograph were in the heap. 
Between the walls of two of the rooms that had been plastered up sometime around the turn of the cen­tury were found the tattered and age-stained remains of two dime novels. Such blood-and-thunder reading mat­ter was taboo. No doubt some boy— perhaps now a stem judge or pom­pous magnate—^liad a secret opening in the partition through which he hid his contraband books. 
Most unusual of the curios found so far is a small silver pocket watch with hunter case, found beneath the floor. It is of the key-winding and key-setting tjiie. The name of the maker—^Eugene Ferret—is engraved on the inside. 
According to the University watch­maker, the timepiece was made at least 70 years ago, probably in Eu­rope, by a French or Swiss master watdunaker. The heavy waistcoat chain attached to it is characteristic of that same period. 
Although some of the works are rusted, the watch in general is in good condition. After accumulated dirt and the green mold of age were rubbed off, the initials "F. R." were found engraved on the outside of the case. Just who "F. E." may have been has not been determined as yet. 

GLEE CLUB MAKES EASTER TOUR 
Five eastern concerts and a coast-to-coast broadcast constituted the an­nual Easter tour of the Glee Club. Professor Joseph Casasanta, '23, di­rector bf the club and head of the department of music, was in charge. 
A group of 40 young men from 20 states, Canada and Argentina made the tour which began on Easter Sat­urday in New York City. At that time the group appeared on the Shell-Chateau coast-to-coast broadcast over the National Broadcasting system. 
On Easter Sunday the group ap­peared in Malone, New York, for a concert, and on the following Tues­day sang in Ridgewood, New Jersey. The club enjoyed a one-day vacation in Washington, D. C, before proceed­ing to Altoona, Pennsylvania, where they were the guests of the Notre Dame Club and others. On Friday, April 2, they gave their final concert in Pittsburgh. 
During a pre-Lenten tour some weeks ago, the Gleemen sang before a crowd of 7,500 in the Civic audi­torium, Kansas City, Missouri. Sub­sequent appearances were made in South Bend, Cleveland, and Erie, Pennsylvania. 

Association Nominating Committees 
The follo^ving ivill be the members of the two nominating commit­tees to nominate the officers of the -'Uumni Association for the coming 
year: 
Byron V. Kanaley, Chairman 120 South LaSalle Street Chicago, Illinois Angus McDonald 65 Market Street San Francisco, California Henry I. Docfcweiler 1035 Van Nuys Building Los Angeles, California John P. Murphy, Chairman 3200 Terminal Tower Cleveland, Ohio Joseph M. Byrne 45 Clinton Street Newark, New Jersey Judge Ernest P. LaJoie 1517 Dime Bank Building Detroit, Michigan 

(Sig.) ABTHUR J. HuGHGS, 
President of the Association 

April, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 181 





St. Joe Hall Reunion Marches On; r 
June 4,5 and 6 

Here are some samples of the many enthusiastic responses to the first announcement of the Reunion! .... 
"Great"—Ray Miller, lawyer, former mayor of Cleveland. 
"Splendid"—Don O'Keefe, general purchasing agent of Chevrolet. 
"I'll be there"—Dr. John Delph, famous head specialist, professor at Northwestern University. 
"Best ever"—^Jim O'Brien, consulting engineer, Detroit Edison Co. 
"J should say so"—^Art Curran, attorney, Rochester, N. Y. 
REUNION COMMITTEE "Wouldn't miss it for anything"—Ray Kelly, corporation counsel, city of Detroit. 
REV. RAYMOND MURRAY, CS.C, Noire Dame, Chainnan 

"Yes, by all means"—Frank Cull, attorney, Cleveland. 
Vrrus JONES, South Bend 

"What a reunion it will be"—Howard Parker, investment broker, Sacra­
DAN O'CONNOR. Chicago BOB PROCTOR, Elkhart mento, Calif. DON O'KEEFE, Detroit 
"Most assuredly"—Jim Sanford, advertising, Chicago. 
JIM SANFORD, Chicago JIM O'BRIEN, Detroit "Coming"—Bob Daley, assistant to the president, American Radiator Co. JOE DONAHUE, South Bend 
"You can count on me"—^Jim Sherry, New Vork Central, New York City. 
JIM BOLAND, South Bend 

REV. JOHN REYNOLDS, CS.C, "All set"—Dick Braun, chief chemist. Southern Acid and Sulphur Co., 
Notre Dame 

Port Arthur, Texas. 
Complete Program for the Reunion in the MAY ALUMNUS! Watch For It! 
"C. M. G. boys, you­

182 The Notre Dame Alumnus April, 1937 
COMMUNICATIONS 
power is taking place throughout the world. Spain is in the throes of a gory civil war between the middle classes and the working classes. The Labor party in England has been gaining power for decades, and the ruling oligarchy retains control of the state only by its wide concession to labor. In Germany and Italy the propertied middle classes are paying the frightful cost of holding the movement in suspense. In our own country "the forgotten man" is now dictating business and social reforms that are bitterly opposed by the prop­erty-owning classes, but which will probably result in giWng the work­ing classes a much larger share of the national income. 
Public Ownership 
The proletariat is distinguished by it s propertylessness. Communism with a capital "C" is distinguished as much by its opposition to privately owned property as by its advocacy of a common or public ownership of property. We Catholic graduates of Notre Dame do not oppose public ownership in principle where social justice requires it. Pope Leo XIII of hallowed memory was veiy clear on this point in his "Rerum No­varum." 

Of coui-se, purely as a matter of self-interest we should oppose the proletarian movement, the revolution of the masses, with all our strength and influence. Most of us probably belong to the propertied middle class that is losing power to the property-less classes and therefore we probably stand to lose many of the material advantages we now possess. How­ever, let us no deceive ourselves as to the motives for our opposition. 
What do the working classes want? What is their aim? Students of the movement say that they want a re­spectable minimum of economic wel­fare for themselves and their families placed before the liberty and riches of more capable or more fortunate individuals. Others, not so kind, say that the working classes want the state to guarantee them a minimum standard of living. 
Whatever they want, they are well on their way toward getting the nec­essary political power. We as Notre Dame graduates may try to stop them if we will, but as Catholics we are bound to sjTnpathize with their efforts to relieve the "misery and wretched­ness" in which Leo XIII found them, provided they do not thereby deprive us of the means of obtaining a decent livelihood. 
What is it, then, that we are to fight? Not the ideal of pure commun­ism. Not the proletariat with whose best interests Communism with a cap­ital "C" strives to identify itself. Is is the political organization known as Communism? 
The following letter was received by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., pres­ident of the University, from James 
H. Kelleghan, '20, Chicago. 
Now that we alumni of Notre Dame have decided to fight Commun­ism, let us fii-st of all make sure of what we are fighting and whom. 
For instance, we cannot attack communism as a principle with much grace because the Catholic Church embraced it a couple of thousand years ago. 

"A system of social organization in which goods are held in common; —^the opposite of a system of private property," is Webster's definition. Thus, in a verj- broad sense, the Cath­olic Church is an example of success­ful communism inasmuch as most church property is held in common, either by members of religious com­munities or by members of parishes and dioceses. 
Communal Living 

Stripped of the parasites and bar­nacles that have attached themselves to it in the couree of the past cen­turies, communism is beyond doubt the most appealing type of human as­sociation the mind of man has con­ceived. We Notre Dame alumni know this to be true because we have had an opportunity to obser\-e during a period of four or five years, the working of pure communism as prac­ticed by the Congregation of Holy Cross, a communal form of religious association devoted to the education of the young and dedicated to the service of God. Notre Dame, in fact, very perfectly illustrates the attrac­tiveness of communism because Notre Dame embodies that complete, un­selfish devotion to the ideal that draws to itself the finest of minds. 
As educated Catholics we know that communalism, which is substan­tially equivalent to communism, was widely practiced during the Middle Ages under the protection and bless­ing of the Church. Then too, there was the wholly successful communis­tic state established among the South American Indians by the Jesuits of the 18th century at approximately the present location of Paraguay. It lasted considerably more than a cen­tury and at the peak embraced more than 140,000 souls. There private property and communal property ex­isted side by side without one crowd­ing out the other. It was almost a perfect Utopia, but it finally fell a victim to human greed. 
So, as we fight Communism, let ua always be careful to distinguish it by a capital "C" to make it plain that we are fighting only a comparatively new and a loathsome form of it. This will also ser\'e to remind us that com­munism is a high principle that has fallen into bad company. Having abandoned its old companions, reli­gion and respect for human rights, including the right to own property, it is now dedicated wholly to gross materialism. 

Then too, we must be careful not to degenerate into "red-baiters." This would make us look very narrow, big­oted and intolerant. It would put us into a class OTth the Puritan witch­baiters of early New England. As Ave all know from our study of his­tory, inquisitorial methods of what­ever nature have rarely if ever helped either the Church or the Cath­olic religion. Christian ideals of char­itj- and brotherly love, however, should sei-ve to keep us from such eiTors. 
Considerations of a wholly prac­tical nature bid us to be cautious lest we find ourselves occupying the em­barrassing position of a thoroughly discredited minoritj-. 
Communism with a capital "C" is a political organization which pro­fesses its aims to be to increase the political strength and improve the economic welfare of the proletariat. Improving the economic welfare of the proletariat, or working classes, is also an aim of the Catholic Church. 
Practical Considerations 

As educated Catholics we are close obser\'ers of cun-ent political and eco­nomic phenomena and trends, and we know that the proletariat right now is in a fair way to coming into polit­ical power. We should know that power in the modem state has been steadily descending the social scale. First, political power was concen­trated in the hands of one man. Then an aristocracy took it away from the monarch. In its turn, the bourgeoisie, composed of the propertied middle classes, seized the power from the no­bility and placed it in a parliament which the middle class either elected or controlled. To the last-named phase belong the Fi-ench revolution as well as our own American revolu­tion. Our Constitution is a bourgeois constitution, written by and for the propertied classes. 
Now we have the proletariat, low­er classes, masses, or just common workingmen—as you will—^taking po­litical power from all the classes above them. Their struggle to seize 
April, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The political spectrum runs from right to left; from blue-blood to red. Dictator, aristocracy, bourgeoisie, proletariat. Tyranny, autocracy, mon­archy, oligarchy, democracy. Au­thority of the rulers is derived from God, from the force of superior in­telligence, from the force of superior strength, from the consent of the governed, or vox populi, vox dei. The state is a being separate from its citi­zens, or the people and the state are one and the same. The intelligent minority should rule or it should be the majority. Free speech should be granted a man who would be a dic­tator, but denied to those w^ho have the misfortune to occupy the other extreme of the political spectrum. We should have only private property, or we should have only state-owned property. 
Contradictory Eleoients 

These elements and myriad others are the materials of government. It is all very confusing. Contradictoiy elements intermingle or exist side by side and the whole is quite illogical and bears little relation to Christian precepts of morality. Christian pre­cepts, for that matter should not be made to depend on any particular civil government. 
"Natural moi-ality and the precept of the gospel—^for the very reason that they transcend the chances of human existence—must necessarily be independent of any particular foiin of civil government and adapt themselves to all so long as there is nothing to conflict with virtue and right," said Pope Leo XIII. 
Catholicism made pure communism practical through the willingness of men and women to dedicate their lives to a common ideal for which they are willing to forego individual and selfish human satisfactions. Com­munism with a capital "C" strives to substitute the State for God and ma­terial satisfactions for spiritual, be­cause God seems to work too slowly for the Communist's intempei-ate en­thusiasm, and because material satis­factions are the means of satisfying a lust for power. The Church stands in their way because it refuses to countenance \'iolence that abandons considerations of justice and the moral merits of their cause, and that outrages human rights. 
Set Good Example 

Let us by all means oppose all the forces that would prohibit the prac­tice of the Catholic faith and those that would create conditions intoler­
^able to its members. But let us not neglect to demonstrate by our exam­ple the superiority of the Christian "way" over all the "ways" of the univci-se. 
Basketball Team Is Honored 
Ray Meyer Is Re-elected 
Captain 

Characterized by Coach George Keogan as "the greatest team I've ever coached in 14 years at Notre Dame" the Notre Dame basketball team was feted at a testimonial ban-
EAY MEYER 
Re-elected Captain. 

quet March 18 in the Oliver Hotel by members of the Notre Dame Vil­lagers' club. 
The four hundred gathered to do homage to the National Champions of 1936-37 heard speeches by John Longfellow, basketball coach, Elk­hart high school; Rev. Frank Cava­naugh, C.S.C, representing the Uni­vei-sity; Dick Jliller, Indianapolis bas­ketball expert now with International News Service; Ed "Moose" Krause, two time AU-American tackle and three time AU-American basketball center while at Notre Dame and now director of athletics at St. Mary's 
If our opponents are to be the membei-s of the Communistic party in the United States, the problem of identification should be relatively simple. We have a measure of their sti-ength in the votes cast for Com­munist candidates in the last election. 
The total was around 80,000. There are more Catholic religious than that in the United States. Most of us will find it hard to believe that they are so few. We would more readily believe that there are at least a million. Their distinguishing trait seems to be their vociferousness. We Notre Dame alumni will have to raise a great clamor indeed to drown out their voices. 
But is it their numbers that makes them dangerous? Does their danger 
 for 1937-38 
college, Winona, Minnesota; Elmer Layden, director of athletics at Notre Dame; James M. Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Neivs-Times, Jack Ledden, sports editor. South Bend Tribune; Paul D. Hinkle, director of athletics , Butler University; and Coach Keogan. Robert E. Proctor, '04, Elkhart, Indiana attorney, acted as toastmaster. Motion pictures of the Notre Dame-New York Univer­sity basketball game played in Madi­son Square Garden, New York City, which Notre Dame won by a score of 52 to 26, completed the program. 
Ray Meyer, Chicago, Illinois, was elected for the second consecutive year as captain. Monograms were awarded to Captain Meyer, John Moir, Niagara Falls, New York; Paul Nowak and Tommy Wukovits, South Bend, Indiana; Earl Brown, Benton Harbor, Michigan; Tom Jordan, Chi­cago; Ed SadowsM, Westfield, Massa­chusetts; Mike Crowe, Lafayette, In­diana; and John DeMots, Minot, North Dakota. 
Theodore Prekowitz, president of the Villager's, presided. Assisting John Lechner, general chairman of the affair, were Jerome Claeys, James Lahey, Harry Poulin, Jr., Matthew Mclnemy, Jack Moulder, Peter Ne-meth, Jr., Hugo Winterrowd, William Ricke, and John Johannes, all mem­bers of the Villagers' organization. 
During the dinner vocal selections were rendered by Joseph PawlowsM and Paul J. Larmer. Their accom­p a n i s t s were George Sauter and William Schenk. 
not lie in the possibility of their con­vincing the proletariat that their aims, ambitions—yes, even their methods— coincide with the best interests of the unprivileged. The poor, the miser­able, the wretched, have had few-to defend them, to give them hope, to court their friendship. Perhaps they are grateful to the Communists for professing their cause. Could we as Notre Dame graduates plead the 
cause of the Catholic Church and faith with the workingmen as the Communists plead their cause throughout the world, we might well alford to be proud. 
The fight with Communism may well turn out to be a struggle for the confidence and friendship of the workingmen. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
// // 
Temptation and the Spirit of N. D. 
By REV. EDWARD J. BVRNE, CS.P. 
Summary of Sermon Delivered at First Annual Communion of the Notre Dame Qub of Qiicago, at 
St. Mary's Pauiist Church 

Ordinarily, ive look upon tempta­tion as something bad, something to be feared, something which is debas­ing, lowering, bringing out the worst in us. We sometimes succumb, and then suffer the terrible self-accusa­tion, shame and remorse. But temp­tation in itself is not something bad, something debasing. In itself, temp­tation is merely an opportunity by which a man is proven. 
God and the Saints looked upon temptation as a positive thing, a means of alertness, of keenness, of development, of refinement, of per­fection. In the manner in which he handles temptation, a man proves the stuff, the character of which he is made. Temptation should bring to the fore the good in a man, by which he shows his definite, positive traits and puts aside the insecure, negative ones. Temptation only becomes bad, when one gives in to it, or as Our Lord says, enters into it— 
"Watch and pray. He saith. That you enter not into Temptation." Matt 26, 41 

St. Paul says, no one obtains the crown unless he strive manfully, 2 Km S, 5 
"I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. 
"As to the rest, there is Laid up for me a crown of Justice, which the Lord the Just Judge will render to me In that day; and not only to Me, but to them also that Love his coming." 2 Tim 4, 7-8 
St. James says. Blessed is the man that Endureth temptation; For when he hath been Proved he shall receive The crown of life." James 1, 12 

Your temptations are not merely moral ones. They are not merely to violate the sixth Commandment, to curse, to swear, to drink,—all these are personal weaknesses, and even the indulger knows they should be cured. A sense of decency, a sense of gen­tlemanliness instinctively tells you what should be done here. 
The-temptations you are subject to are the subtle, clever, insidious, insin­uating, would-be-intellectual, smart-alack temptations of the world. 
 on February 14, 1937 
Temptations that sneer at your faith fundamentally, not merely morally. Temptations that seek to deprive you of the one balancer, the one develop­er, the one securitj' you have in your life—^j'our Religion. 
With you men, the world tempting attacks fundamentals, basic princi­ples. Among such attacks are loss of Faith; giving up Faith, carelessness in Faith; marriage outside the Church; scoffing, ridiculing the Faith; making your own laws; dishonesty in life; dis­regarding the Church's teaching. 
The spirit of Notre Dame is not merely a spirit that permeates a foot­ball team, but a spirit that permeates the life of every man who once strode that campus, a spirit that endures April, 1937 
throughout the entire life of student and alumnus. 

The spirit of Notre Dame is a live, refreshing, ardent, manly spirit, the spirit of religion, the spirit of the Catholic Religion. What substitute have you for Her? What can the world give you in exchange? I defy you to find anywhere, in any other philosophy or "Ism," a philosophy as well balanced, as hopeful, as encovir­aging, as reasonable, as inspirational as the Catholic philosophy of life. 
The Catholic spirit develops, im­proves, perfects, gladdens. It bal­ances life for a man. It increases life for a man. It secures life for a man. 
Live up to the Catholic spirit, the true spirit of Notre Dame. Never leave it off; live it each day, every hour, every day in the year. For, what substitute have you for the one true faith of God? Your Catholic Faith arms you with the armor of God, and armed with God, you are a fortress, a tower of strength, you are impregnable. 
When you live that faith, when you hold onto that Faith, then you are winners, then you are champions. 
817 Students Employed on Campus 
Out of the 2964 students now at­tending the University 817—or more than one out of every four—are pay­ing part of their way by means of campus jobs, according to a report just released by Mr. Frank W. Lloyd, Universitj' comptroller, in charge of student employment. 
This is an increase of 385 Uni­

versity-employed students in 1929, 
with enrollment approximately the 
same, and is the result of efforts to 
aid as many meriting boys as possible. 
Of the 817 employed, 300 receive all t)r part of their aid from federal N.Y.A, appropriations, while 517 young men are employed directly by the University at a great variety of tasks. Because 2,500 students live on the campus, 245 of them are able to serve as dining hall waiters, kitchen and cafeteria workers. 
The second largest group, 120 in all, act as secretaries, stenographers and correctors for professors. The gymnasium, athletic fields and golf course provide jobs for 45 more. Thirty-three sign the payroll as li­brary and art gallery workers. 
The 12 most envied jobs are those of mailmen for the dormitories. These 12 know first which boys are receiv­ing boxes of-fudge—and when. Then there are 20 job holders acting as dormitory "prefects." They check each student's room each night to report whether the occupant is in. 
Six boys act as property men in the Ujiiversity theatre. Another six earn their way cleaning blackboards. Two 
' act as lifeguards; one as an organist. And six actually get paid for work­ing in the University candy store. 
One student acts as chauffeur for the Prefect of Discipline — driving about South Bend and nearby Mish­awaka at night to see that town-going students are behaving. Still another is supervisor of the campus radio broadcasting studio. 
Requirements for obtaining Uni­versity jobs aren't easy, and competi­tion is keen. Except for a few N.Y.A. jobs, an applicant must have proved his ability, academic and otherwise, by being a student for at least a year. He must have and maintain a scholas­tic average of 77. Need for the job must be definitely established. After going to work the student forfeits right to the job by any disciplinary infractions. 
The 300 boys working under 

N.Y.A. grants receive 40 cents an hour and average $120.00 a year in this way. They serve as secretaries, clerks, library and laboratory assist­ants, laborers in campus beautifica­tion and forestry work, and as in­structors in the C.C.C. camps nearby. 
Fourty-four states, the District of Columbia, and four foreign countries have working students at Notre Dame. The four states whose boys have no campus jobs are Maine, Ne­vada, North Carolina, and Wyoming. The first five states leading in the number of workers are Indiana, 153; New York, 116; Illinois, 113; Ohio. 62; Michigan, 55. 
April. 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 
CAMPUS NOTES 
COAST-TO-COAST 
"Let's go, Notre Dame," cued stu­dent announcer Norbert Aleksis, and 20,000,000 people heard 4,000 voices singing the "Hike" song. Notre Dame was on the air for 30 minutes, the broadcast emanating from the Uni­versity gymnasium. It was the Pon­tiac "Varsity Show," which, on March 5, featured Notre Dame. 
", . . And your master of ceremon­ies, John Held, Jr." The famous illus­trator and writer took his place be­fore the microphone and the show began. Albert Miller, producer of the broadcast, who spent 10 days on the campus gathering talent, stood on a raised platform, stop watch in hand. The student performers, remarkably cool, all of them, handled dialogue and their specialties like profession­als. Applause was regulated by NBC announcer Paul Dumont. There was just one hitch in the proceedings. After the applause had died after each number a sharp double smack of palm-upon-palm was heard. It was learned, after the broadcast, that it was the work of a Sophomore com­municating, by means of pre-con­ceived plan, with a heart interest back in the old home town. 
IRISH SIT DOWNERS 

St. Patrick's Day aroused the dor­mant fighting instinct of the fresh­men in Dillon hall. "Irishmen At­tention!" screamed a placard on their bulletin board, "Today is St. Pat's Day and today we make tradition! All good Irishmen remain seated in the West dining hall after dinner and sing the "Wearing of the Green." Remember, 'Divided we stand. United we sit.'" 
The Sit-Downers' laudable inten­tions failed, however, since ringlead­ers failed to take into consideration the fact that constituents, looked up­on as sure-fire Sit-Downers, didn't know the words to "Wearing of the Green." 
MAN ON THE STREET 

Joe Boland, line coach of the foot­ball team, conducts a quarter hour "Man on the Street" program for a local radio station. Usually Joe is well able to cope wth such victims as he manages to corral, but the other day he ran into a situation which stopped the fluent Boland. 
"Are you from South Bend?" asked Boland. 
"No, sir," answered the Man-on­the-Street in a southern drawl. "Ah'm from South Cahlina." 
"Well, well, South Carolina, eh? Well, South Bend is having plenty of snow today. Have you ever seen snow before?" 
"Yes, sir, I have." 
"You've seen snow before, eh? Where did you see it?" 
"Oh, down in South Cahlina." 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 

Scrip, campus literary quarterly, made its third appearance of the year. . . . Editor Phil Welsh, Ander­son, Indiana, improves the magazine with each issue. . . . With Barney Ross, welterweight champion of the world, and retired lightweight cham­pion, acting as honorary referee the Bengal Bouts, sponsored annually by the Scholastic, were an unprecedented success. . . . The Kansas-Oklahoma club held its second annual Rockne Memorial program in Washington hall. . . . Elmer Layden, and Thomas Hickey, South Bend contractor and intimate friend of "Rock," were the principal speakers. . . . The Missouri Club boys believe in planning its ac­tivities far in advance. . . . With the basketball season over they have or­ganized a team for next year. .. . Ed Reardon is the far-sighted prexy of the club. . . . President Reardon is reported to be urging freshmen mem­bers of the club to get dates now for their Senior Ball three years hence. . . . Other plans include a club re­union in 1970. . . . 
GERMAN CLUB HAS SONGS 
The German Club held its monthly meeting in Carroll "Rec." . . . Ac­cording to the Scholastic: "A 'Ger­man' quartet, composed of Peter Ne-meth, Paul Larmer, Theodore Preko­witz, and Joseph Pawlowski, enter­tained." . . . John McCormack should have been billed as the "Swedish Nightingale." . . . But who are we to argue with the Scholastic? : . . Thom­as B. Donahue, Boonville, Missouri, was elected president of the Fresh­man class. . . . Other officers include: vice-president, Gerald Donovan, Tul­sa, Oklahoma; secretary, David J. Bernard, Los Angeles; and treasurer, Frederick Fox, Utiea, New York. . . . 
BANQUETS AND BANQUETS 
Plenty of banquets this month. . . . Top of them all was the one tendered Coach George Keogan and his Na­
tional Championship basketball team by the Villagers' organization. . • . James Weber Linn, University of Chicago professor and former Chica­go newspaperman, featured the Press Club's annual dinner. . . . District Deputy Eli Abraham and company put over a district Knight's of Co­lumbus banquet in fine style. . . . But when was Abraham ever connected with anything not a success? .. . St. Joseph's parish. South Bend, honored three of its boys who played on the football team last Fall, Louie Hickey, end; Johnny Murphy, end; and Joe Ruetz, quarterback. . . . The above-mentioned banquets all came within the space of two weeks. . . . Plans are being made for the Senior Ball on May 7, by Senior Class President Parker Sullivan, Lexington, Ken­tucky. . . . The price will probably be eight frogskins. . . . Any alumnus desiring to attend the affair figura­tively by subsidizing a deserving stu­dent, please communicate.... Walter Clements, '14, South Bend lawyer, spoke at the monthly meeting of the Law aub. .. . The White Hussars, noted symphonic and operatic octette, appeared in Washington hall. . . . 
ADD BIRTHS 

A new club was bom, the Academy of Politics. . . . Geoige Cecala, Salt Lake City, Utah, was elected presi­dent. . . . Tom Mulligan, Cleveland, Ohio; Frank Brame, Alexandria, Lou­isiana, Cavanaugh; and Ed McDon­ough, Parkersbnrg, West Virginia, Dillon; were named on the All-inter­hall debating team by George Morris, chairman of the Interhall debating contests. . . . Steve Miller, varsity fullback, and man - on - the - spot in readying the Monogram Absurdities, promises to name the production date for the show soon. . . . The latest issue of the Catalyzer, chemistry pub­lication of the department of science, is dedicated to the memory of the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. . . . 
BOOKMEN BOOK 
The Bookmen, campus literary or­ganization, inducted four new mem­bers: Frank O'Laughlin, Chicago, Illi­nois; Robert Heywood, New Rich­mond, Wisconsin; John Shaw, Tulsa, Oklahoma; and John Walsh, Chicago. . .. The "B" debating team competed with nine other midwestem colleges and universities at Manchester col­lege. North Manchester, Indiana, win­ning nine and losing one. . . . The Glee Club appeared on Joe Cook's 
(Continued on Page 195) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus April, 1937 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
If the members of the Notre Dame basketball team of the past season could possibly have covered them­selves with more glorj- than they did, their feats would have had to surpass anything the imagination of this de­partment can conjure. The boys thought of everything. 
They lost tvvo of their iirst five games, and their first two hard games at that, and had us all thinking they'd be lucky to wind up with a .500 sea­son. As a matter of record they wound up like an ammunition dump explosion, with 20 victories, three de­feats, and a winning percentage of .870. 
We haven't heard of a team in the countrj- with a better claim to the na­tional championship, and, until we do hear of one, we'll just consider that the lads won this mj'thical honor, along with many others. 
Total team scoring was not as high as it was in 1935-36 when there were 25 games istead of 23 on the sched­ule, and when illness, injurj', and other misfoitune kept pretty much away from the quintet. But Johnny Moir did his share indi\-idually by scoring 290 points for a new season's record. His own old record was 260 points. This two-year total of 550 points surpasses Ed (Moose) Krause's three-year mark of 547. Moir needed 33 points in his last two games to get this record, so he got 17 against Min­nesota's co-champions of the Big Ten, and 18 against one of the strongest teams in Detroit University historj', two more than he needed. 
Moir and Nowak, South Bend's contribution at center, have been named on all the -•Ul-American teams which have come to our attention. Nowak was even picked on the Syra­cuse all-opponent team, although he was a spectator at that game. A 
Coach George Keogan's AU-time Record at Notre Dame 
1S23-24—Won 13. Lost 8 
1924-25—Won 11, Lost 10 
1925-26—Won 19, Lost 1 
1926-27—Won 19, Lost 1 
1927-2S—Won IS, Lost 3 
1928-29—Won 14. Lost 6 
1929-30—Won 15. Lost 5 
1930-31—Won 12. Lost 8 
1031-32—Won IS, Lost 2 
1932-33—Won 16. Lost 6 
1933-34—Won 20, Lost 4 
1934-35—Won 13, Lost 9 
1935-36—Won 22, Lost 2, Tied 1 
1936-37—Won 20, Lost 3 
Won 232 Lost, 6S, Tied 1 


1937 Basketball Record 

Notre Dame, 41; Kalamazoo College, 27. Notre Dame, 39; St. Marj-'s, 27. Notre Dame, 37: WcsU State Trs. (111.). 22. Notre D.ame, 19: Northwestern, 38. Notre Dame, 29: Illinois. 44. Notre Djmie, 24: Noithwestern. 23. Notre Dame, 30; ChicaKO, 27. Notre Djime, 41 : Kentucky. 28. Notre Dame, 25: Butler, 24. Notre Dame, 31: Pittsburgh, 34. Notre Dame, Syracuse. 31. Notre Dame, 41: Pennsylvania. 36. Notre Dame, .55: Western Eeser^'c, 20. Notre D.ime, 47: Purdue. 40. Notre Dame, 41: Illinois. 33. Notre Dame, 52: New York University, 26. Notre Dame, 40; Canisius ColIeBO. 36. Notre Dame. 29: PittsburKh. IS. Notre Dame. 41 ; Marquette. 24. Notre Dame. 42: BuUer, 17. Notre Dame, 39: Marquette University, 35. Notre Dame, 44 : Minnesota, IS. Notre Dame, 36 : Detroit University, 18. 
Won 20: Lost 3. 

heav}' cold was responsible for his ab­sence. 
The team won from Illinois and Jlinnesota co-champions of the Big Ten, after losing to Illinois during the December doldrums; from Purdue, co-champion of the Big Ten confer­ence in 1935-36; from Pitt, cham­pion of the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball conference; Kentucky, the Southeastern conference champion; and from such other sectional leaders as Detroit, Marquette, Butler, New York University, Syracuse, North­western, Chicago, and Penn. 
Coach George Keogan saw his boys come back to defeat each of the three teams — Northwestern, Illinois, and Pitt — which had beaten them. The Irish also handed two defeats apiece to Marquette and Butler. 
Keogan's all-time percentage rose fi-om .765 to .773 during this remark­able season. Only one major coach in the countrj- can challenge this mark, and he is Ward Lambert, of Purdue, whose percentage for the 14­year period during which Keogan has been at Notre Dame is .777. Lam­bert's 19-year record at Purdue is closer to the .750 mark. 
The Irish had a 13-game winning streak in their possession at the con­clusion of the season with a 26-18 victorj' over Detroit. Their final home victory over Minnesota, 44-18, left them with seven straight on the Notre Dame gymnasium floor. Work­ing like a crew of magicians, they rolled up a 20-2 and then a 36T10 lead on the Gophers. The final score was the largest any team made on Minnesota all season and the lowest to which the Gophers were held in any game all season. 
Capt. Ray Meyer, Moir's running mate at forward, was re-elected cap­tain for next year, the first time since Harry Mehre was elected to his sec­ond term in 1920 that this phenom­enon has occurred. Joe Jachym, 1927-28 pilot, was elected co-captain in 1928-29, with Francis Crowe. These facts speak for themselves more eloquently than any eulogj- of Meyer could. Coming at a time when only two reserves are being lost by graduation, the election was a great tribute to the esteem the other mem­bers of the team have for Meyer's fighting spirit against great physical handicaps, not the least of which are his weakened knee, which must be heavily taped before each game, a blood vessel in his foot which was broken t\vice during the past season, and his height, a mere 5 feet 10 inches in a game played by giants. 
Tom Wuko\'its, like Nowak.a South Bend contribution to the cause, was runner-up to Meyer in the captaincy voting, and the boys couldn't have gone wrong either way. Wuko^•its was the only regular to appear in good physical shape for everj- game, and Coach Keogan has characterized him as one of the most fearless and hardest driWng guards in Notre Dame history. 
He and Earl Brown, Jr., who got a late start because of the lateness of the football season, and then broke his way into an experienced combina­tion as a Sophomore, were defensive blankets. They faced and throttled some of the highest scoring stars in 
Individual Scoring—1937 Basketball 
Player Games 

F.G. F.T. Pts. .John Moir. F-C 22 113 64 290 
Paul Noivak, C-F __ ' 1 57 30 144 Capt. Ray Meyer F 23 39 26 
104 Tommy "Wukovits G 23 34 27 93 Earl Brown. Jr.. G _ 21 28 19 75 Eddie Sadowski. F _ 23 24 10 58 Tommy Jordan. G -17 17 10 44 Mike Crowe. F 15 7 7 
21 Jim Carson. F _ 7 
5 0 10 Lyman Shields, C — 
4 3 1 7 GeorKc Knobel. F .. 5 3 
0 6 

•John DoMots. C __ 7 2 
1 5 •Don Allen. G 10 2 
0 4 John O'Connor C-F 6 2 
0 4 Frank Conrad. G 0 1. 0 2 Frank Gaglione, G ~ 8 1 0 2 
338 193 871 

* Graduatinr; seniors. Total scorinf;: Notre Dame 871, Opponents 6*16. AvoraBC: Notre Dame 38. Opponents 28. 
Total crowds: 11 home «ames 50,000. 12 other eames. 95,300. Total. 1-15,300. Eijiht sellouts away from home, seven at home. 
April, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 187 
the nation. They drove under the basket for their shots, thus giving the team versatility of attack. They were sure ball-handlers, accurate passers, although Brown needs still more im­provement in this department, and they fought like demons for posses­sion of the ball, so the magic attack might get under way. 
These boys will all be back. And so will Tommy Joi'dan, whose last-minute shots licked Northwestern and Marquette; Eddie Sadowski, sopho­more lettermen at forward; Mike Crowe, monogi-am fonvard whose sur­name, at least, is familiar to Notre Dame students since 1923, and whose, front name is a watchword on the campus at present. 
John DeMots, monogram winning center, and Don Allen, who won a monogram as a Sophomore at guard, ^vill be lost by graduation. They were tireless workers, the kind who keep the morale of the team at a high pitch, pressing the regulars for their jobs, and never complaining about anj-thing. They were rewarded in the home finale when both got baskets against Minnesota in the last five minutes of play. The ovations these baskets got surpassed that which the gi-eat Johnny Moir received even though he had just broken his own all-time single season record. It's not that the boys like the rugged Scot less, but that they knew how much these baskets meant to Allen and DeMots. 
TRACK 
We are not to eulogize sophomore athletes, but the cold figures don't lie, and whatever success the Notre Dame track team has had this past indoor season has been due more to the work of Joseph Gregory (Greg) Rice, Bro\vnson Hall, Soph from Mis­soula, Montana, than to the efforts of any other individual. 
Rice is a Sophomore. He stands about 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighs 140 with the Sunday papers under his arm. Maybe Coach John Nicholson will come back at me next year and say that this publicity in the ALUJI­NUS has prevented Rice from enter­ing the group of top flight milers for the countiy. He is on the fringe of that group right now, and only time will tell how far he may go. But we don't think publicity will spoil him. 
In his latest start, he was matched with Don Lash, of Indiana, on the first leg of the four-mile relay at the Butler relays. He beat Lash by 20 yards. Notre Dame subsequently took second while Indiana scored a new Butler relays record of 17 minutes 
56.4 seconds. The week before that. Rice broke the Notre Dame indoor mile record for the second time this season, also setting a Notre Dame gymnasium and Central Intercollegi­ate conference indoor record of 4 minutes 16.2 seconds, which is re­markable time, considering the gym­nasium track. 
Rice came back to take third be­hind John Francis, who was second to John Woodruff, of Pitt, to give the Irish a total of 7 points in the C.I.C. half mile. He had done the same thing against Illinois, tying with two mates in the mile and taking second 
PAUL NOW.-VK 
South Bend All-Avierican. 

in the half; against Drake, when he won the mile and took second in the half with a courageous stretch drive; and he won both the mile and half mile against Marquette. 
The points were needed in all of these meets with the e.xception of the Illinois dual, which the Irish won 69­35, the largest score by which a Notre Dame team has ever beaten an Illi­nois team. Illinois immediately hired a new coach. Against Drake, Rice set a Notre Dame indoor record of 4:19.4, eclipsing the mark of 4:21 which Irish milers have attacked in vain since 1924 when Paul Kennedy set it. Further significance is given this feat when it is pointed out that Coach John Nicholson, who came here in 1927, has now seen his men wipe everj' Notre Dame indoor record off the books. It is likely that two or three of the handful of outdoor marks still standing will be erased by Nicholson-coached men outdoors this Spring. 
Rice leads the team in total scoring with 44 points. And he takes it all as just a part of his job, another day's work. No fuss, no tempera­ment—^just a desire to get out there and beat someone in the mile, pref­erably someone with a reputation like Capt. Ray Mahannah, of Drake, Mis­souri Valley conference and Iowa State champion, and Ken Waite, of Michigan State, I.C. cross-countrj' champion, two of the bigger stars in the C.LC. meet. 
Notre Dame record has been better than Coach John Nicholson expected it to be lugubrious as he is in his pre­dictions. The Irish broke even in two dual meets, and won the C.I.C. title from a strong field. 
Indiana's well-balanced team, which could probably beat Notre Dame on the best day it saw or will see this season, took a 60-26 decision at a time when the Hoosiers were further along in their training than were the Irish. Indiana had appeared in New Orleans New Year's Day, and Coach Billy Hayes had his distance men really ready. Smith, of Indiana, set a meet record of 9:33.5 in the two mile run. John LevicW, of Notre Dame, set a meet mark of 48 feet 2 % inches in the shot put. Harold Langton, of the Irish, tied the meet record of 12 feet 6 inches in winning the pole vault. The Indiana relay team ran the mile in 3:28.8 for a meet record. 
Notre Dame came right back, run­ning on Marquette's small track, a board one at that, and squeezed out a 54-41 decision. Rice, and Bill Ma-honey, hurdle star from Phoenix, Arizona, shared honors with two firsts apiece. Mahoney set meet records in the 45-yard highs and lows, this being the only time the obstacle races were run at this distance. 
Drake's well-balanced squad won the mile relay and ^vith it the meet at Notre Dame, 54-50, in the third dual of the season. Since it was the only indoor meeting between the two schools, all records were meet marks. 
Rice, Capt. Charles (Bucky) Jor­dan, and Mahoney shared point honors with eight apiece. Besides this tie, Jordan figured in two others, both almost unheard of for their re­spective events He tied Eddie Boyle, who left his duties as Father O'Hara's amanuensis to jump that afternoon, in the broad jump; and tied Robin­son, of Drake, in the 60 yard dash. 
Notre Dame's failure to come through in the pole vault and 440­yard dash were important factors in the final outcome. Harold Langton, who cleared 13 feet 3 inches the next week, against Illinois, was unable to get better than third against Drake or sixth in the C.I.C. meet, both of which were won at 12 feet 6 inches. Jim Parsons, senior quarter miler, failed to score in either meet, but won the quarter at Illinois in 51.3. 
Scoring against Illinois in the 69­35 victory was pretty well spread over the team with seven men scor­ing five or more points. 
The C.I.C. victory was scored in five events, by nine men. The Irish dominated the shot put with second, third and fourth, by Bud Faymonville, John Levicki, and Ed Beinor, respec­tively. Francis and Rice dominated the half mile with second and third. Rice won the mile. The relay team took second in its event, beating out Michigan State and giving a good Pitt team all it wanted until Wood­ruff, the Olympic 800 meter cham­pion, took over on the last leg. Gene Gormley, an unknown Junior at the beginning of the season, made a hair-raising race out of the two mile, com­ing up from sixth to take third in the stretch. 
Cjach Nicholson is to be congrat­ulated on garnering as much success as he did out of a season which ap­peared headed for disaster. Never has he had as many set-backs with injurie s and illness, particularly pulled muscles brought on by the fact that the track needs a new surface. His mainstays have been Rice; John Levicki, who won the shot put in all four dual meets and took third in the 
C.I.C. and Butler meets; Bud Fay­monville. Sophomore shot putter, who took second in every meet in which he appeared, six in all; John Francis, who has won the half twice and who took second in the C.I.C. and ran a 
4:29 mile on the anchor leg of the four mile relay at Butler; Gormley, a consistent point winner in the two mile; Capt. Charley Jordan, sprinter and broad jumper; and Bill Mahoney, hurdler and 440 star; all of whom have completed the necessary point requirements for letters. 
Arch Gott, senior miler; Steve Szu­machowski, Sophomore two miler; Parsons, Senior quarter miler; John McKenna, Senior miler; Harold Lang-ton, Junior pole vaulter; Dan Gibbs, Senior pole vaulter; Bill Clifford, Junio r sprinter; John Cavanagh, Senior middle distance star; and Ed Beinor, Sophomore shot putter, all appear headed for letters. Cavanagh, Szumachowsld, Francis, Gibbs, Ma­honey, and Jordan have all been ham­pered in their training by injuries or illness. 
GOLF 
Prospects point to one of the greatest golf seasons in Notre Dame history, which, as all Notre Dame alumni since 1930 know, is saying a lot. In seven years, Notre Dame has won 49 dual matches and has lost but four. Yet the Rev. George L. Hol­derith, C.S.C, faculty director of the team, is of the opinion that the Irish of 1937 have a better chance of win­ning the National Intercollegiate title than any team in the past has had. 
Father Holderith will be assisted this season by occasional visits from M Watrous, professional at Oakland "Hills country club, Birmingham, Mich­igan, who will help members of the squad in their early training and again before the national tournament. He will work under the direction of Father Holderith in ironing out ilaws in the swings of the various members, coming to the campus as his duties in 
the Detroit suburb permit. 
A native of New York, Watrous is recognized as one of the game's best instructors and iron shots. He won the Canadian open in 1922, and he The Notre Dame Alumnus 
was runner-up to Bobby Jones in the British open in 1926. He was semi­finalist in the 1935 P.G.A. tourna­ment which Johnny Sevolta won. 
Larry Moller, Louis. O'Shea, the Beaupre boys, and some of you "old timers" will be pleased to know that work is well under way on the instal­lation of a watering system on four holes. The work will continue until the entire course is watered. Chet Keeley, who is in charge of the layout, has planted more trees, more bushes, 
JOHN LEVICKI 
First In all Duals. 

more shelter houses, and more traps during the past season, and the layout is getting sportier with each succeed­ing day. The golf schedule follows: 
April 10—Washington University, here. April 17—^Purdue Uni\*ersity, there. April 19—Chicago University, here. April 26—Ohio State University, there. May 1—^Minnesota University, there. May 6—Detroit University, here. May 8—Northwestern University, there. May 15—Wisconsin University, here. May 17—-Michigan State, here. May 22-^IlHnois University, there. May 28-29—Indiana State Meet. here. 
FENCING 
Coach Pedro de Landero has just completed another winning fencing season at Notre Dame, his third in four years. The Iris h won five matches, lost three, and tied one. Two of the defeats were by one point, and the other was by a two-point margin. 
Capt. Telmo de Landero, son of Coach de Landero and a Senior, led the team. He, John McAuliffe, and Bob Seco, letter winners, will be graduated. McAuliffe led the scoring with 27 victories to 14 defeats. Tel­mo scored 22 victories to 15 defeats, and Seco was just a point behind with 21% points to lo^A. 
One of the peculiarities of the sea­son was the fact that the Irish split points with five opponents. In the Wayne match, a favorable distribu­tion of points in the individual bonts would have brought victory. The scholastic average of the squad was April. 1937 
over the 85 mark necessary for honor rating. Improvement in the epee was noted during the season, when the Irish won the event in three matches. The best any previous team had done was break even in this weapon. 
The complete record follows: 

Notre Dame, 8; Northwestern, 9. Notre Dame, 8 ; Wayne, 9. Notre Dame, 11: Purdue, 6, Notre Dame, 10%; Washington U., B%. Notre Dame. 7%: Ohio State, 9%. Notre Dame, 14% ; Cincinnati, 2%. Notre Dame, 11; Purdue, 6. Notre Dame, 8% : Chicago 8% (tie). Notre Dame. 10%: Wisconsin, 6%. 
INTERHALL 
With some of the tournaments al­ready completed and the other all under way, the winter sports program is proving itself an enthusiastically received innovation this year. 
In the singles tournament in bowl­ing, John DroUa, of Walsh, met Ted Trefzer, of Dillon, in the finals and won his match. Of the 156 entries, the 32 highest scores qualified as fin­alists for the elimination section of the tournament which was decided by match play. Drolla, the ultimate vic­tor, barely qualified when he rolled off a tie for 32nd place and won his match. 
Jack Darcy, Off-campus, finished first among 103 entrants when he won the finals of the handball tour­nament after a hard battle with John Claire, of Sorin Hall. He lost the first game in the two out of three matches, came from behind to win the second, and then moved on to take the third game and first place honors. He defeated Mark Lonergon, of Sorin, in the semi-finals, while his rival moved into the last round with a vic­tory over Bill Foley, of Alumi. The doubles tournament will not be fin­ished until after the Easter holidays. 
"Mike" Shea, of Morrissey HaU, reached the final round of the bil­liards tournament when he beat Morse, of Brownson, in the semi­finals with 150 points to his rival's 
115. After Lonergan and Corcoran have met in the other semi-iinal bracket, the winner will play Shea to decide the tournament. 
ANNUAL ORATORICAL CONTEST 
The third annual Indiana Catholic Oratorical contest sponsored by the Wranglers will be held on the campus, April 17 and 18. 
Invitations are being extended to all Catholic high schools in the state of Indiana to take part in this year's event. The winner will receive the Joseph P. McNamara trophy, award­ed each year by Mr. McNamara, dep­uty attorney general, of Indianapolis. 
April, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 189 
» >

ALUMNI CLUBS 
AKRON William G. Burkhardt, '35, 50 Mayficid Ave, 
Akron, President: Lawrence H. Halter, *3I, 
58 Hawthorne Ave., Akron, Secretary. 
ARIZONA Vincent Hcnscsbach, e.T.'27, 1710 E. 2nd St., 
Tucson. President: Ted A. Witz, ex.'29. Box 
628, Tucson. Secretary. 

ARKANSAS Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little 
Rock, Arlc, Secretary. 
BENGAL Rt Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02, 
Dacca, Bengal, India. President: Rev. J. J. 
Hennessey, C.S.C., '02, Dacca, Bengal, India. 
Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) EuEcne G'Toole. "20. 321-325 State St.. St. 
Joseph, President: Frank A. Dcitle. '26, 

1884 S. Colfa-x, Benton Harbor, Secretary. Friday, March 5, the Notre Dame Club of Berrien County met in Bu­chanan, Michigan. The boys began 
drifting in early, and by the time the fish were prepared, the appetites were ready and waiting. 

After the dinner and while waiting for the radio program from the cam­pus, Chairman Phil Landsman called upon the president of the club. Gene O'Toole. Gene outlined plans for a party to be held St. Patrick's Day. The next in line were these profes­sors of the University: Christopher Hollts, William Downey, Norb Engels, Louis Buckley and Rufus'Rauch. Dr. Rigley and Jack Sheehan, guests from South Bend, also spoke. 
These members were present at the meeting: Chet McGrath, Tom Farrell, John Jauch, Gene O'Toole, Frank Deitle, Sheridan Cook, Bill Desen­herg, Phil Landsman, Alan Johnson, Bob Waterson, Tom Cronin, James Kenny, Gene Grathwohl, Dr. Russell Hart, James Bookwalter, Carl Gar-mire, Joe Ulrick, Robert Franklin, Bill Madden, and John Medo. 
The 1936-37 Board 
Arthur J. Hughes, 'II , Chicago, III President Ray J. Eichenlaiib, '15, Columbus, Ohio First Vice-President Henry I. Dockweiler, ' 12, Los Angeles, Cai Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary Fred L Steers, 'II . Chicago, III Director to 1937 James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe. '03, Detroit, Mich Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark. N. J Director to 1940 Bernard J.'Voll, "17, South Bend, Ind Director to 1937 (ex-officio) Joseph Waldron, '36, Trenton, N.J Director to 1937 
The 7936-37 Disfricf Governors 
Alexis Coquillard, '03. South Bend, Ind District I Fred L Steers, 'II . Chicago District 1 Dr. Leo D. O'Donneil, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa . District 3 Eugene A. O'Brien, "28, Minneapolis, Minn District •• Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich District 5 
B. K. Wingerter, '26, East Orange, N. J District 6 Hugh A. O'Donneil, '94. New York City District 7 John J. Huether. '22, Schenectady, N. Y District 8 Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass District 9 Anselm D. Miller. '25, Roanoke, Va District 10 Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa. Ala '. District 11 William Reisert. Jr., '29, Louisville, Ky District 12 Cyprian Sporl, Jr., '28, New Orleans, La District 13 
D. Patrick Buell, '24, Dallas, Texas District 14 Daniel F. Foley. '23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan District 15 Clarence Ruddy, '27. Aurora, III : District 16 Earl W. Brown. '93, Helena, Mont District 17 James P. Logan, '18, Denver, Colo District IB Anton R. Hebenstreit, 'II , Albuquerque, New Mex District 19 
W. Breen McDonald, "17, San Francisco, Calif. District 20 Samuel M..Dolan, '10, North Bend, Ore District 21 To be elected District 22 
BOSTON James Dooley. '22, 368 Main St. North An­
dover. Mass.. President: James Skahan. '31. 
5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass., Secretary. 
BUFFALO George E. Doyle, Jr.. '30. Liberty Bank 
Bide.. President: Robert Measer. '34. Am­
herst Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sts., Williams-
ville, N. Y., Secretary. 

Announcements addressed to the Alumni Office brought word of still more activity on the part of the ever-active Buffalo Clnb, — the Easte r dance in the Hotel Statler on March 
29. Gene Regan and his orchestra played. 
The club also had a party .and buffet lunch in WiUiamsville, on March 10, with the cheer provided through John Byrne. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-III.) John Rohrbach, '23. Crown Point. Ind.. 
President: Fred J. Solman. Jr., '28, 5752 
Erie Ave.. Hammond. Ind., Secretary. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New YoHc) Richard S. Walsh. '31. 2191 Plaza. Schenec­
tady, N. Y.. President: John B. Land. '34. 
4 Hedgewood Ave., Schenectady, Secretary. 

Notre Dame's Night on the Pontiac Hour proved to be a tasty morsel for drawing the boys out to an enthusias­tic gathering. The turn-out was ex­cellent and the program was certainly enjoyed. Our pet gripe was that it was too short. Can yon arrange to have John Held, Jr. perform his an­tics for about an hour the next time? It was good. 
AI Heigle, one of our most recent members, had the good fortune of being transferred from G. E. Test to a permanent job with the large motor division of the General Electric Fort Wayne Works. Al wasn't around even long enough to meet all the members, but that is our regret and not his. Keep going, Al. 
Ed Eckert, class of '33, our clnb vice-president and a decent fellow, too, is gaining momentum in his rush to the altar. Perhaps by the next time we see him he will have bended one—or is it two?—^knees to Miss Carolyn Buchanan, of Albany. 
To you guys out there who were promised cigars by Eddie back in '33, he can be located in the Albany Branch of the Universal Credit Com­pany, Albany, New York. 
Tom Farley, who is Business De­velopment Representative of the Uni­versal Credit Company for northern New York, gets back into the city rather frequently. Why? 
That Universal Credit Company evidently knows where to go when 
The Notre Dame Alumnus April, 1937 
they scout for future executives, be­cause the grapevine tells us that Frank Hayes is in their Altoona, Pennsylvania, office. 
The club is looking forivard with expectation to the coming Universal NoU-e Dame Night, April 19. The place for the meeting hasn't been scheduled, but we know that it soon will be; furthermore, it is a night of so great importance that no Capital District man ever misses. 
To us it is what an Army pep meet­ing is to the student. It is our big tonic for the year. It's the impulse that gives us momentum for the year. We are assured that no member with­in striking distance of either Schenec­tady, Albany, or Troy will stay away. Everybody will be there. 
Will those men who have recently come into the Troy, Albany, and Schenectady area please get in touch with me in order that we may let you know our meeting place? 
J. B. Land. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hormes. '16. 1910 O.ikland St.. 
Lansing, President; J. Han'ey Gauthier, '.30, 
Bark River, Mich., Secretarj-. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres, '2$. Perth Aml»y Nafl. 
Bank BldfT., Perth Amboy, President: Jonii 
Lisicki, '31, 215 Water Street, Perth Amboy, 
Secretary. 
* 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenhiub. '15, Hoster Realty 
Bid;;., Columbus. President. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
Leonard Burns, '25. 1G35 20th Ave. Altoona. 
Pa.. President; William McAlccr, '31, 151S 
19th Ave., Altoona, Pa., Secretary. 
My secretarial duties as far as sending you news on the club have been sadly neglected for the past few months, but the truth of the matter is that I have had nothing to report, with the exception of social news, until just recently. We have had four or five stag affairs in Altoona, and one including the fairer (as far as looks are concerned) sex in Johns­town. All of them have been highly successful. 
In Februarj' we stepped into the civic field by sponsoring an essay contest in the Catholic high schools of Altoona and Johnstown. We in­tend this to be an annual event with a scholarship as the prize when we become financially able to back it. This year we are being content, and we hope the contestants are, -with a gold medal. 
On April 1 we are bringing the Glee Club here for a concert, the pro­ceeds from which will also go to our local Catholic high school. The ath­letic association of the high school is assisting us in this venture, and I am positive we are going to have a verj' successful affair. 
I'll give you a line on what some of our club members are doing to get by the breadlines: Johnny Hoffmann and Ted Lee are with the Personal Finance Company. Bill Clear man­ages the young men's di\'ision for one of our local clothiers. Leonard Bums is still selling very good investments. Dave Bell is field manager for our local distributor of Chrysler, Inc. Terry Wharton and Charley McAleer are slowly overpowering all other legal competition. George Martin is with the State Employment Bureau. Norb Rascher is still doing a grand job coaching our Catholic high school. Dave Barry recently opened a gas station and tourist inn at Cresson. Don Shettig is managing his furni­ture store in Ebensburg. Bill Cor­rell, our honorary president and most active member, is a big-wig with Johnstown's electric utility, and I am one of those guys than whom no one has more endurance. I'm with the Penn Mutual life insurance company. 
Bill McAleer. 
* 
CHICAGO 
Francis J. Oelerich, Jr.. '32. 861 Larrabec St., ChicaKO. President: Georue A. Brautl-Kan. '29, 111 W. Washington St., Chicaso, Secretary. 
Francis Oelerich was elected presi­dent of the Chicago Club at the an­nual meeting in the Chicago -\thletic Club on February 25. Frank Mc-Currie and Bruce Holmberg Were named ^'ice-presidents, George Brau­tigan, secretary, Tighe Woods, treas­urer, and Dan Hilgartner, Jim Bren­nan and John Dorgan, directors. Francis McKeever, whose interest and ability have so successfully promoted the series of Notre Dame lectures in Chicago this year, was elected hon­orary president. 
* 
CINCINNATI 
Frank H. Sweeney, ex. '17. Kemper Lane 
Hotel. President: Qarencc Brink. '31, 1306 
Cryer Ave., Hyde Park, Secretary. 
Our last monthly meeting was held on the night of March 5, which date gave us the opportunity to collective­ly enjoy Notre Dame Night on Pon­tiac's "Varsity Show" program. 
The meeting was attended by a number of newcomers, namely, Wil­liam McCarthy, '83, Jack Cannon, Homer Cannon, (Jack's brother, a graduate of Xavier University), Wil­liam Singer, and Salvatore Ferrari. 
Mr. McCarthy was given a big hand by the crowd present, and we hope that he will be able to be with us again. 
Bob Johnson, of Harrisburg, Penn­sylvania, was sent here last month by the State of Pennsylvania to work with the State Board of Food Com­missions of the Chemistry Depart­ment. His work was to inspect the food and commission houses that were in the flood area. 
Clem Crowe, our vice-president, and coach at Xa\'ier University, is highly elated over the appearance of 75 men for Spring football practice, the largest turn-out in the history of the school. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Alice Carroll, of Brooklyn, New York, and Ray Pellman. Ray was recently sworn into the state bar, and is now connected with the Juvenile Court. 
Bernard Hugger is the new station manager for American Airlines in Cincinnati, and is in complete charge of the airline's facilities and person­nel at Lunken Airport. 
The club is making plans for a special meeting the night of April 6, at which time Alumni President Arthur J. Hughes will be here to pre­sent the Association's progra m against Communism. 
Clarence Brink. 
* 
CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny. '28. 1660 Warren Road. Lakewood. Ohio, President: Lawrence Krai, '31, 276 E. 272 St.. Cleveland. Ohio, Secre­tarj'. 
On April 4, we have our Rockne Memorial Mass at St. Paul's Shrine, and Communion Breakfast to follow at the University Club. Father Hugh O'Donnell and Jimmy Crowley will address the club at breakfast, and Tom Conley and Don Miller are mak­ing all ai-rangements. 
On April 13, we launch our Anti-Communistic Progl"am. Tom Byrne is leading the drive for the local alumni, and Tom has engaged Art Hughes to address our group and as far as we know, we will convene at Cathedral Latin on that night. Quite naturally, this is an open invitation to all friends and interested people. 
And then we n|ove on to Universal Notre Dame Night on April 19. No­tices will be sent out advising the location and tariff. Joe Sweeny, Chuck Mooney and Jerry Reidy are ii'oning out the details, and, of course, the presence of Pat Manion in the speaker's chair insures an eager group of listeners. 
Incidentally, Pat Manion addressed some 900 rollicking Irishmen on March 17 at the Mayfair Casino. 
Around the town with the news­hound: Ted Collins is in the time study department at the U. S. Alum­inum Company. Jack Kennedy is vrith the B. R. Baker Company in the boys' clothing department, being as­sistant to the manager. Jack comes from Shelley, Ohio. Dr. Johnny Vik­toryn has been made assistant sur­geon at the -American Steel and Wire Company. Vik was formerly team physician to the football teams of Cathedral Latin and John Carroll U. 
Coach Gene Oberst has his track team at John Carroll U. running all over University Heights to get them in shape for their first meet at Pub­lic Hall. Pat Canny is busy breaking 100 in practice driving nets to get a jump on such famous golfers as Van Rooy, Gavin, O'D.ay, and Morrissey. Jack McGrath and his family were flooded out of their home in Evans­ville, and Jack spent a few days in Cleveland, appearing very optimistic 

April, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and te'ling some very interesting highlights. 
The Joe Gavins announce the birth of a little six-pound package of sun­shine—a little girl. 
Larry Krai. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY Harry J- Dccffan, ex. *31, 100 Francis Ave., Hartford, Conn., President: John M. Cianci. '29, 500 Allen St.. New Britain, Cbnn.. Secretary, 
* 

DALLAS James P. Swift. '24. 1202 Southwestern Life BldK.. Dallas, President: Francis A. McCul­louKh, '30. 017 First National Bank BIdp:.. D.iltas, Secretary. 
* 

DAYTON Euprcno Mnyl, '2-1, 400 Ir\'inK Ave., Presi­dent ; William Cronin. '29, 418 Crafton Ave., Secretarj-. 
* 

DENVER nobcrt A. Dick. '29, 931 14th Ave., Presi­dent: Harry Lawrence. *29, I05I Lawrence St., Sccretarj'. 
* 

DETROIT Gilbert F. Schaefer, '26. 17,'!8D Monica. Pres­ident: John W. Brennan, *27, 632 Fisher BIdjr., Secretary. 
Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters, was the speaker, on March 19, in the final lecture of the splendid Notre Dame series conducted by the Detroit Club. Father Miltner's sub­ject was: "Religion in Governments." The series was presented under the chairmanship of John W. Brennan. 
DES MOINES Harry O'Boyle, '27, 2S0I Grand Ave.. Presi­dent: Richard Hyde. '33, 67S 26th St.. Secrctarj*. 
* 

DUBUQUE 
C. I. Krajcwski, '16, 321 Bank & Insurance Bids., President: Henrj-L Trcnkle, '24, ISO 
S. Booth St.. Secretary. 

EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon, '33, 401 Wysor BldK., Muncie, Ind., President: Aivis E. Granjrer. ex. '31, 617 S. JefTerscn St.. Hatford City. Ind.. Sscretarj-. 
* 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, President: Ernest L, Wilhelm, '27, New Jersey Zinc Co., Research Dapt., Palmerton, Secrctar>-. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA Charles J. Wittihan, '31, 621 Schenley Dr.. President: Williimi K. Bayer, '36, 724 W. lOth St.. Secretary. 
* 

FLINT (Michigan) Stephen J. Roth, '31. 723 Union Industrial Bldff., President: Donald F. MacDon.ild, '31, 1631 W. Court St., Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Edward S. Sullivan, '24. 12.5 E. Suttenfleld St.. President; Jlaurice J. DeWald, "33, 2415 Huburtus St., Secrefars'. 
GRAND RAPIDS GeorEe E. Ludwiff, '25, 328 Glenhavon Ave.. N". IV., President: Raymond J. Bonini. '27. 607 Atwood, N.E., Secretarj-. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN John V. Dienor, '09, Slaj-or of the City of Green Bay. President: John Clancy, ex, '35. 523 S. Clay St, Secretary. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE Raymond PfeitTer, '32, 3032 Lexinston Ro., Louisville. President: John B. Ratterman, Jr., e-x. '32, 2114 W, Market St., Louisville, Secretary. Thirty-five members were present in the South Room of the Brown Ho­tel, Friday, March 5, as the meeting was called to order by President Pfeiffer. The minutes of the last meeting were read and O.K.d. Russ Leonard, chairman of the Holiday Dance committee, reported that 112 couples attended the dance on Satur­day, January 2. In spite of the date, the attendance and the results were satisfactory. Total receipts, $159.00 against expenses of $154,00, Net, $5.00. A rising vote of thanks, on motion of E. P. Moran, was accorded Mr. Leonard for the splendid work he and his committee did on the dance. 
In view of the approaching holi­days, Mr. Pfeiffer suggested that we have an Easter Dance. -A.n interest­ing discussion followed concei^ning its merits, the date, and the place. Fin­ally on motion of Mams Pope, it was decided to have a dance. The presi­dent then appointed John Bannon and Mams Pope, chairman and co- chair­man, respectively, to head this Easter Dance committee. A motion by Russ Leonard, properly seconded, that we charge $1.50 was carried. The date was set for Easter Monday, March 29, and the place: Bro^\1l Hotel. 
Befor e adjournment President Pfeiffer announced that the next meeting will take place on Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 
19. At this meeting election will take place. -A. smoker, with the help of pretzels, etc., followed. At 9:30 for a half-hour a i-adio program was heard direct from the University cam­pus under the sponsorship of the Pon­tiac Company. 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) Robert O'CallaKhan, ex. '16, Gogebic Na. ttonal Bank. Inonwood. President: Francis 
J. Vukovich. '35, RidKe St., Ironwood, Mich,, Secretarj-. 
* 

HAMILTON, OHIO JI O. Bums, 'S6. 338 S. Second St., Presi­dent: Marc A. Fiehrer. '27. 701 Rentschler Bids.. Secretary. 
* 

IIARRISBURG Edward C, Smith, '01. 2623 N. Second St.. President; John .J. McNeill, '33, Chevrolet Motor Co., Secretari*. 
* 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) Gerald J. Clciiry, '21. 310 Lake Share Dr.. Escanaba. Mich,, President: Ed J. Dundon. '22. Iron Mountain, Mich.. Secretarj-. 
HOUSTON 
M. E, Walker, "14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton, President: Thomas F. Green, Jr., *27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary, 

INDIANAPOLIS Charles E, Mason, '2G, Indiana Bell Tele­phone C President: Frank P. McCarthy, '28, 819 N. Gray St.. Secretary. 
* 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Lester Wisda. "31, 1016 E. GansOT St. 
President; Lyman Hill. '29, 224 S. Mechanic 
St., Secretary, 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Dr. Edward J. Mayer. '27, 301 Ruby St, 
President: Lawrence J. Dunda, ex. '33, 704 
N. Raynor Ave., Secretary. 

The Notre Dame C^ub of Joliet, in its new clubrooms in the West Pines Hotel, has been enjoying an even more eventful existence than in the past. 
-\t the last regular monthly meet­ing held on March 2, the following new officers were elected: Dr. Edward 
J. Mayer, ex. '27, president; Clarence 
W. Wilhelmi, '18, vice-president; Lawrence J. Dunda, ex. '33, secre­tary-treasurer. 
Many alumni and friends of Notre Dame w^ill be sorry to hear of the death of Francis J. Dunn, el. '22, an honorary alumnus of the University, one of the most ardent and enthusi­astic Notre Dame men ever seen, and a keen admirer and backer of any amateur sport. His loss is a great one to the University, the alumni or­ganization and his home community. His son, Francis, Jr., will complete his law couree at Notre Dame in June. 
Friends of William Redmond, Jr., also will learn with sorrow of the death, less than three weeks apart, of his mother, Mrs. Theresa Redmond, and of his father, William Redmond, a former president of the Joliet Na­tional Bank. 
On Friday, March 5, members gathered to enjoy the Notre Dame Night radio program on the Pontiac "Varsity Show." A stag party was also a feature of the evening. Bob Fortune, '33, of the Johns-Manville Company, presented a most interest­ing full-length talking motion picture of the products and facilities of his company. 
A few members, namely Joe Adler, '24, Don Wise, '33, and John Skid-more, enjoyed trips to Florida this winter, and on their return showed that they benefited much therefrom. 
A party planned for St. Patrick's night was cancelled because of the death of Francis Dunn. Numerous events are being planned by the offi­cers, the special activities committee composed of Chairman Wilhelmi and co-workers Joe Adler and Charles Lennon, '30, and the house commit­tee. -A. ping-pong table, presented to the club by Ward Loeffler, and a table tennis set, the gift of Bob Basker­ville, '31, are most welcome and en­joyable items for the use of members. Regular meetings of the club are held on the first Tuesday of each month. Every other Tuesday and Saturday night are social nights, although the doors are open each evening, and members gather whenever they wish. Since the new clubrooms were opened last Fall many entertaining parties and "get-togethers" have been en­joyed. 
Ray J. Dunda, '31, has recently moved to Rockford, Illinois, with his wife and daughter, where he is in 
The Notre Dame Alumnus April. 1937 
charge of the territory for the Mat­thews, Lynch and Company, of Chi­cago, investment securities house. His home address is 2224 Hancock Street. 
In addition to his connection wth the law firm of Wise, Duffy and Wise, the latter member being Donald F. Wise, '33, Bob Duffy, '31, has become associated with William Beringer in the real estate brokerage business. 
Lawrence J. Dunda. 
KANSAS 
Albert J. Gcbcrt. '30. U. of Wichita. Wicli­ita. Kansas. President: Dan Welchons, *30, 623 Elm St.. Ottwa. Kansas. Secretary. 
* 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler, '29. 3616 Paseo Blvd.. Kansas City, Mo.. President; Charles E. Meyer. "29. 420 E. Armour Blvd.. Kansas City. Mo.. Secretary. 
* 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Norman E. Duke. 'M, 304 Niles St.. Presi­dent; Robert E. Quinn, e.'C. '39. 1401 Monroe St., Secretary. 
On the evening of March 18 a special meeting tvas called to order by Clarence Bunce, president of the Notre Dame Club of LaPorte. The main object of this meeting was to elect officers for the coming year. 
To the office of president, Norman 
E. Duke was unanimously elected. Michael Leahy was the choice to be vice-president. Robert E. Quinn was chosen secretary-treasurer. The new­ly elected officers took office and con­ducted the remainder of the meeting. 
It was decided to hold meetings once a month. These meetings shall be held on Sunday mornings at a breakfast after our club Communion. The first of these meetings will be held April 4. It was planned to try this program as a means of making it possible for every member to at­tend meetings. Universal Notre Dame Night plans were briefly discussed. It was decided to have a banquet and some prominent speakers. These plans vrill be more fully discussed at the next meeting. 
Robert E. Quinn. 
LOS ANGELES 
EuEene M. Kennedy. '22. Bank of America. 7th & Spring St, President: DoURlas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
* 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke, 'SS. 307 Camp St. Neiv Or­leans. La.. President: Cyprian A. Sporl. Jr.. '28. Whitney-Central BIdtr-. New Orleans. La., Secretary. 
* 
MANILA 
Eduardo Roxas. '33, 719 Exchange. Manila, President; Lcopoldo Brias. Manila. Secre­tary. 
* 
MEMPHIS 
John S. Montedonico. '35. 327 Kenilworth PL. President: Theon F. Dohocne. '27, 1072 S. Wellington St. Secretar}-. 
* 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Gihiin. '18, 410S Collins Ave. Miami Beach. President: Daniel J. Lino, ex. '34. 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave. Miami, Secre­taiy. 
* 
MILWAUKEE 
Joseph Grifiin, '28, 210 E Michigan St., 
President; Jean LaBouIe, '29, 524 E. Mason St., Secretary. 
Several of the "out of towners" have been gathering weekly for luncheon, and the turnout, while small, has been one hundred per­cent. Those meeting every Friday have been Bert Maloney, of Chicago, '31, now associated here with the In­ternational Har\'ester Company; Ed Graham and Larry Enright, both with Dictaphone Sales Corporation (Ed was graduated in '34 and hails from Galesburg, Illinois. Larry's home was in St. Joseph, Missouri, and he fin­ished in '30.) J Bob FitzSimon, of San Antonio, class of '34, now an indus­trial chemist in the Hummel-Downing Company of Milwaukee; Jack Jaeger, Chicago, '33, now in the sales de­partment of the Holeproof Hosiery Company; Bill Collins, of Oak Park, who is working for Trans-.Ainerican Freight Lines. Most of the boys knew Bill as "Cy" when he was in school, o r Jim Bosco, of Maj'wood, has been a faithful attendant. Jim 
left Milwaukee for a few weeks, but will be back to represent a large candy company in the next week or so. 
Saw Tony Wirry at the Marquette game, and he expected to reside in Milwaukee after March 15. Tony was to take over a position with the Associated Press. 
John Brust, '34, a Milwaukeean, has been joining us every week for lunch. 
Friday's luncheon at the Plankin­ton Hotel's Sky Room brought out a few more Milwaukeeans. Harold Wat­son, the Corrigan brothers, and John Clauder were present. 
AI Schumacher has been trans­ferred to Marietta, Georgia, to take charge of Holeproof Hosiery Com­pany's Credit Department in the newly organized mill. 
Several of the boys have been get­ting together at Koster's, 621 East Ogden Avenue, Saturday afternoons and a few evenings during the week. Everyone is welcome! ' i 
Temporarily the weekly luncheon will be held in the Maryland Hotel, Thursdays. All the travelers and home-towners are invited. 
A dinner and get-together will be held Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 19. From all appear­ances it will be attended by many no­tables. 
Al Stepan, '31, Chemical Distrib­utors, Cliicago, was in town for a few days and stayed over for the Notre Dame-Marquette game. Al was sport­ing a nice coat of tan as the result of his Florida vacation. 
* 
MONTANA 
William B. Jones. '28. 411 Power BIdir., Helena. President; Rev. .Tohn Regan, '24, Bishop's House, Great Falls. Secretaty. 
* 
NEW JERSEY 
R.•^^•mond A. Geiger. '32. 446 Eastern Park­
•way. Irvington. N. J.. President: Daniel O'Neill '26. 184 N. Walnut St, E. Orange. N. .1.. Secretary. 
With Russ Riley as chairman, the annual Universal Notre Dame Night banquet of the New Jersey club is headed for unprecedented success, ac­cording to the latest issue of the club's snappy and thorough mimeo­graphed news sheet. .\s it was last year, the banquet w^ill be held in the Essex House, Newark. Eddie Dooley, of the New York Sun, and Jim Crow­ley, of Fordham, were already on the speaker's program when the paper was published and more outstanding names were to be added. Several entertainment acts and an entertainer had already been signed up. 
Tom Treacy, '36, is the chairman in charge of the Spring Dance of the club, to be held, probably, in the Es­sex County Country Club and, prob­ably, on June 18. Indications are definite that the dance will be as successful as the eminently successful Spring Dance of last year. A co-chairman from the campus club was to be appointed later. 
The club is also planning well in advance for the visit of President Art Hughes and Secretary Jim Arm­strong on May 29. 
* 
NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norhert Gclson, '26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. President; Warren S. Fogel. '30, 70 Wall St, Secretary. 
Our anti - Communism broadcasts ended on March 11 with the talk given by Dan Cunningham. Over 300 letters and cards commenting thereon were received by us, and on the or­dinary basis used to determine cov­erage by broadcasting stations (one letter for every 10,000 listeners), this would indicate that about 3,000,­000 people heard us. There is no doubt in my mind that we were well received, for much favorable publici­ty was given both in the secular and the Catholic press. 
We are greatly indebted to Station WLWL for their kind co-operation in extending the use of their facilities and allowing our speeches to go on uncensored by any one. 
.\s a result of the broadcast, our Study Club group has been in great demand throughout the city in lec­turing at various settlement houses, boys' clubs and parish halls. Mon­
signor Mclnlyre, in charge of the 
Study Club Movement throughout the diocese, thinks well enough of our group to allow the committee to form other study clubs, using our club members as the teachers. 
At the monthly meeting in March, a nominating committee was elected for the purpose of appointing 10 members to the Board of Governors, and the following were designated: for two years, John T. Balfe, Martin 
V. Callagy, Warren S. Fogel, Daniel O'Neil and Edward S. Tighe; for one year, Henry A. Frey, Bob Hamilton, John V. Hinkle, John J. Moran and be approved by the club at the Rock­ne Memorial Communion Breakfast James J. Ward. These members will 

April. 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 193 
to be held on April 4. At that time OKLAHOMA they will probably elect officers Joseph A. Moran. '32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. among themselves and the remaining 
President; Marion J. Biakc, '33. National 

Bank o£ Tulsa BIIIR.. Tulsa, Secretary. five hold-overs for the coming year. 
OREGON munion Breakfast is a distinguished Samuel M. Dolan. *10, Oregon State CoIIepce, Our line-up of guests for the Com­
Corvallis, President: J. Ron Sullivan, 'SO, 

one, Jim Crowley being slated for GU Board of Trade Bldjr., Portland. Ore., toastmaster, and Former Supreme Secretary. Court Justice William F. Bleakley * and William R. Crowley, noted foot­PARIS 
Louis P. Harl. 'IG. Paris Office. New Yorlc 
ball official, being the speakers. Mass 
Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 
:'^^m 

The Ncie York Club anti-Communism radio speakers. Left to riffht. hottom row: Leo V. McLaughlin, Joseph Malloy, CS.P., director of WLWL, James F, Dwiier, John T. Balfc, Second row: Warren S. Fogcl, Hugh A. O'Donnell, Edioard A. Fallon, Daniel J. O'WeU, W, Latorcnec Darrow. Third row: John J, Hayes, Edicard T, Tighc, and Daniel F, Cunningham. Martin V. "Bud"* Callagy, another speaker, is missing. 
is slated for nine o'clock in the Lady PEORIA Chapel of St. Patrick's Cathedral, and Bradley Prescott. ex. '31. Central Illinois 
Ligllt Co., President: Al Gury, Jr., '28, 530 

breakfast at The Centre at ten. A W. Kichn'oods Blvd., Secretary. large attendance is expected. 
For Universal Notre Dame Night, RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. we plan the usual banquet and get-Bol)ert W. Powers. Jr.. e.T. "29, 22 Roselnnd 
Ave, Cranston, R. I.. President: John R. 
together, but with the most promi­
Jolly, ex. '18. 457 Pawtucket Ave., Paw­

nent group of speakers we have ever tucket, R. I., Secretary. hoped for. Vernon Rickard, at pres­ent, New York's sweetest singer, and 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA now entertaining at the Sapphire 
E. J. Hilkert. '22. 402 TiUe & Trust BldB.. 

Room on East 57th Street, will do the Phoenix, President. latest songs. Incidentally, Rick is the town's latest rage, and has gone over 
PHILADELPHIA in a big way. 
Walter Ridley, '31, 6324 N. ISth Street. President: A. J. Wackerman, '35, 535G 
Warren S. Fogel. 
Chew Street, Secretary. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

ROCHESTER (New York) Marl£ G. Kreutzer, '24, 311 California St.. Frank Norton, '32, 80 Beckwith Terrace, Rm. 524, San Francisco. President: Elmer President: D. Bernard Hennessy, '34, 119 Wj-nne, '29. c/o E. S. Tonnsend Co., IStli Bedford St.. Seeretary. Fl.. Russ Bids., San Francisco, Seeretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) NASHVILLE 

Paul J. Fry, '27, 210 W, Third St, D'ucon. Kennedy Jones, '30, Jones Cliemical Co,, III., President; Gerald Jones, '22. 105 E. Secretary. Second St.. Dixon, III., Secretary. 
SAN ANTONIO William V. Dielmann, Jr., '25, 107 Thelma Drive, President: Edward G. Connoy, '30, 204 E. Crais PI., Secretary. 
* SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21, Standard Oil Co., 
Saginaw, Mich.. President; William C. Hur­
ley, '25, 117 Cherry St.. Saginaw, Mich., 
Secretary. 
* 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John M. Murphy, '27, 86 Liberty St.. Bridge­
port. President: Edward P. Monahan. '34. 
304 Beechmont Ave., Bridgeport, Secretary. 
In conjunction with the broadcast of the Pontiac radio program from the campus on March 5 we had a din­ner at the Algonquin Club here in Bridgeport. There were about 25 fellows present; this is the most in­terest shown in our organization in some time. 
Bob Devine and his brother. Jack, came down from Norwalk. Bob is a practicing attorney in Connecticut, haWng passed the state bar on the first try. Dr. Tarasovech is finishing up his internship in Bridgeport hos­pital and, from initial appearances, promises to be a credit to the medi­cal field. Jack Cox, who assists John Galla in the local Welfare Depart­ment, was also on hand. Walter Sta­pleton. Bus Redgate, Joe Russo, Dr. 
Oesseau, and his brother-in-law, Jerry Andres, were part of the crowd. The Murphy clan were there en masse with Jim, Tom, and John all on hand. 
Francis Rooney, Bill O'Brien, Elmer Harkabus, Andy Patrick, John Galla, 
and others whom I do not purposely omit, were heard to say we should get together more often. 
The new officers were elected for the coming year. John Murphy was chosen president, Dr. Taresovech, vice-president, and Andy Patrick was elected to handle the treasurer's af­fairs. Upon me has devolved the du­ties of secretary. 
My first official act was to write Pontiac a word of appreciation for sponsoring the N.D. program from the campus. By official vote we have changed the name of our club, and it is now known as the N.D. Club of Southwestern Connecticut. 
Roger McGovem's father gave us a talk on further organization to sponsor further interest of prospec­tive students in Notre Dame. We have decided to have another meet­ing about March 18 to show some football pictures and to plan for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
I think, with the better financial condition which apparently exists at the present time, we will be able to work up this club into a sound organ­ization to advance Notre Dame in­terests. 
Someone was heard to bewail the fact that we were never occupying any space in the ALUJINTJS, and so now that I have a job to do, I'll see if we can't keep your office posted on events relating to Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
Ed Monahan. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS Charles G. Corcoran, '17. 1134 W. Monroe St.. President; Paul D. McConnell. '32. 120 
S. Walnut St.. Secretary. Springfield alumni members recent­ly met at luncheon in the Knights of Columbus building. Plans -were dis­cussed for Universal Notre Dame Night. A committee of Frank Zimmerman, chairman; John Carrol, William Ir­vine and William Bernbrock v.'as ap­pointed to go into the matter of entertainment for April 19. The club is happy to receive two new members in the persons of Thomas Vicars, '36, and Walter Ber­nard, '36. Bill Bernbrock reported back to work this week after an extensive trip through the southern states, ter­minating at Mexico City. Chuck Corcoran reports back from a pleasant vacation in Florida, as does Roscoe Bonjean. I hai'e received the resignation of Rudolph "Dutch" Kelley, our presi­dent. Dutch has accepted a position with the architectural firm of Hewitt, Emerson, and Gregg, Peoria, Illinois. Chuck Corcoran, our vice-president, long one of our hardest and most suc­
cessful workers, will succeed him. Paul D. McConnell. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis F. Bucliley, '28, 718 E. Corby Blvd.. 
South Bend. Ind.. President: Clarence Hard-
inc. '23. South Bend Tribune. South Bend. 
Intl., Sccretarj-. 
Dr. John B. Berteling, '80, was the honored guest at the joint dinner-meeting of the Villagers (students) and the St. Joe Valley Club in the Columbia Athletic Club, South Bend, on March 1. The father of an alum­nus (John B. Berteling, '08, Hamil­ton, Ontario, Canada) and the grand­father of a present student (John B. Berteling, '38, of Hamilton, Ontario, and Dillon Hall), Dr. Berteling is the oldest graduate of the University in the St. Joe Valley. 
The outstanding accomplishments of Dr. Berteling as a Catholic, a phy­sician, a citizen of South Bend and an alumnus of Notre Dame were out­lined by Father Patrick Duffy, C.S.C., assistant pastor of St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. Father Duffy read a poem in honor of Dr. Bertel­ing, composed for the occasion by Father Thomas Burke, C.S.C., of The Ave Maria staff. Dr. Berteling re­sponded graciously and humorously with reminiscences of his student days at Notre Dame. George Beamer, prosecuting attorney of St. Joe coun­ty, presided. 
Bill Furey, of the alumni, and Joe Pawlowski, of the Villagers, sang. Lou Buckley, president of the St. Joe Valley Club, Ted Prekowitz, president of the Villagers, and Francis Jones, all spoke briefly. Prexy Buckley an­nounced plans for the club's annual Rockne Communion - breakfast on April 4. 
Kurt Simon acted with George Beamer in arranging the alumni par­ticipation in the gathering. Ted Prek­owitz, Jim Lahey and Peter Nemeth acted for the Villagers. 
Father Burke's poem in honor of Dr. Berteling follows; 
From the dome that rises sky^va^d 
In a blaze of Roldcn splendor. 
One looks down upon the campus as Queen-
Mother from a. throne; One looks down upon her children In the shadow of the valley .'Vnd she clothes them in the opalescent mantle 
of her own. 
To the East and West she cuides them. 
Soldiers all, her vast alumni. 
'Neath her shield of dazzlin;; brishtness, 
counter-Klor>- to the sun: To the North and South she leads them With the clarion call of battle. And her cohorts know no respite till life's 
victory is won. 
We have seen her mighty Iceions Sweep the vales and storm the mountnins. Men with liehtning in their'bloodstreams and 
white starliuht in their eyes: We have hoard them shake the forests With the tumult of their thunder And have felt the clouds resounding to the 
echo of their cries. 
And to<iay we Kroet a K^ldier Battle-scarred and battle-wasted Who has fought witli faith unshattored since 
the breaking of the dawn: Who has seen a host of comrades. Loyal leaders, fall in ser\'ice. And who still fights on undaunted with his 
generation gone. 
We who know him for his courage. For his fearlessness, salute him. We who know* him as a doctor, as a fighter, 
as a friend; Ho has taught our generation To be loyal to ideals. And his life has proved that goodness alwaj's 
triumphs in the end. 
* 
ST. LOUIS Dr. Matthew W. Weis. ex. '23. 330 Metro­politan Bldg.. President: David J. Rielley. Jr., '30, 718 Locust. Secretary. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Harry J. Corcoran. '27. 82 Port Watson St., Cortland, N. Y.. President; Donald J. Shee­hy, '33, 101 Glahn Ave.. Syracuse, Secretary. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11, 260 Melmore St.. Presi­dent; Fred J. Wagner. '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
* 
TOLEDO 
Edward J. Hagerty, '28. 536 Woodville. President; Raymond L. Tillman, '25, 2027 Bretton PI.. Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) George Uhlmeyer. '23, Peoples' Light Co,. Moline. HI., President: Elmer W. Bestcn. '27. 1711 W. Sixth St. Davenport. Iowa. Secretary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Joseph Hunt, 40 Chenango St., Binchamton. 
President; William Yeaeer, 'ZA, 18 Vine St. 
Binghamton. Secretary. 
TRI-STATE 
F. Wendell Lensing. '30. 601 Bayard Park. Evansville. Ind., President; Ralph F. Heger. '25. Il l Washington Ave.. Apt. D.. Evans­ville, Ind., Secretary. 
On behalf of the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-State I want to let you know that we enjoyed and appreci­ated your broadcast of a program from Notre Dame. About 30 of our club members met informally at the Knights of Columbus Hall and lis­tened to your progi-am, while others, undoubtedly, tuned in at home. 
F. Wendell Lensing. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) Gerald F. Conway. '32. David. Inc., First National Bank Bldg.. St. Paul. President; 
A. K. Sullivan. '27, 261 Lowry Medical Arts Bldg.. St. Paul, Secretary. 
In my travels about the State of Minnesota, I come in contact with a number of Notre Dame men. Terry O'Malley is running his father's hotel at Grand Rapids, Minnesota. 
Mark Nolan was elected district judge in St. Louis County, and is the youngest district judge in the State of Minnesota. Clarence Smith is county attorney at Bemidji, as is Joe O'Hara at Glencoe. Ardo Reichert is in the insui-ance business at Long Prairie, Minnesota, and Ermin Reich­ert is manager of the Hotel Reichert. Dan Coughlin is running a newspaper at Waseca, and is very active in newspaper circles throughout the state. 
During the Fall season, the N.D.­Twin Cities Club held several meet­ings, and at one of the meetings, Frank S. Rogers, a prominent insur­ance executive in St. Paul, was made an honoi-ary member of the Twin Cities-N.D. Club. Mr. Rogers is one of our most active club members. 
We had a meeting on March 9 at the Town & Countrj' Club, St. Paul, to listen to the Pontiac broadcast from Notre Dame. -A. business meet­ing was held after the broadcast to arrange for Universal N. D. Night. 
Frank Mayer is holding down a re­sponsible position with the Northern States Power Company in St. Paul. Jerry Conway is going "great guns" with the David Advertising Company, and Joe Benda is having a very suc­cessful basketball season at St. John's University, College^'ille, Minnesota. 
A. K. Sullivan. 
* 
UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady, '24. 206 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City. President; Cyril Harbecke, '19. 64 F. St.. Salt L.-ikc City, Secretary. 
* 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
* 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton. Ind.. Presi­
dent Emmett Ferguson. '32, Wallace Bldg., 
Lafayette, Ind.. Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, *28, 32 Farmington Ave., 
President: James M. Monaghan, '27, 44 
Ayer St.. Secretarj-. 

April. 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Charles O. DcBarry. '21. 1601 Arsonnc PI.. N.W.. rrcsident: Paul Bcretz. '27, 815 18th St., N.W.. Washington, Secretarj-. 
The Notre Dame Club of Washing­ton, D. C, minus its president, Tom Markey, who resigned on March 1, to accept a position on the legal staff of Firestone Tire & Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio, obsei-ved the annual Rockne Communion and Breakfast last Sunday, March 21. 
About 30 attended Mass at St. Pat­rick's Church and a breakfast follow­ing. One of the guests was Father Rick, who sailed on March 22 for India to resume his missionary work in that country. Plans were made at the breakfast for Universal Notre Dame Night, which this club will cel­ebi-ate with a smoker. 
We have been allotted time over the local Columbia Broadcasting Sys­tem station the morning of April 17, as well as a half hour the night of the get-together — April 19. Acting president, Charley De Barry, is ar­ranging a suitable progi^am for the half hour on the night of April 19, and expects to have a man of some renown deliver an address, which will be supplemented by songs by an im­provised quartet of Notre Dame men, of which Charley himself has threat­ened to be a member, as well as Jim Hayes. This city will hear plenty about Notre Dame at that time. Hal Roddy, '33, has been appointed chaii'­man of the arrangement committee for the affair. 
The club, individually and collec­tively, hated to lose Bud Markey, but realizes his appointment is a forward step in his career and ^^•ishes him luck, 
George A. Wagner, '28, attorney from Sandusky, Ohio, and his wife, recently spent several days here on business, which visit yours truly en­joyed thoroughly. 
Paul Beretz. 
* 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Joseph Bach. '26, 5610 Hobart St. Pitts­
bursh. President: William Majrarrall, '32, 
l-ino Franklin Ave., Wilkinsburfr, Socretarj*. 
* 

WESTERN WASHINGTON 
James M. Phelan. ex. '17, University of 
WashinKton, Seattle, President: Emmett G. 
Lonihan, '15, 1405 Hopre Bldjr., SeatUo, 
Secretar>-, 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citizens-Peoples Trust Co., "Wlieennfr. President: Goorpe Sar­pus. '28. 2111 Belmont. Bellaire. Ohio. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Seton. C.S.C. St. Mary's CollcKe. Holy Cross. Ind.. President: Sister 
M. Anffclice, B.V.ftf.. St. Joseph Convent. Mt. Carmcl. Dubuque. Iowa, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran. '29. 1348 Quinn. President; Charles Cushwa, '31. 463 Madera Ave.. Secretary. 
RELIGION IN AMERICAN LIFE 
(Continued from Page ITS) 

I am going to base my proposition on one test. You have a good many Catholics in your plant. I know many of them. I worked with them years ago. If you can find one of these men who is disloyal, who neglects his work, who is a bad citizen, I will withdraw my proposition. But you won't. I will tell you why. Those men have gone to Catholic schools, the good Sisters have taught those boys that it is a sin to take a good day's pay without a good day's work in return, that it is just as wrong to neglect their work or to injure the company's property as it is to take money out of the cash register. "The good Sisters have taught those little girls that they must be honest and clean and upright, that they must grow up to be good wives and good mothers. If you are smart, if you are looking out for the future of the corporation, you will write out a check for five thousand dollars and give it to the priest for his school." 
Two years later I called again at that office. As I entered I was hailed by my old friend, who said: "You are just in time, I want you to hear what this bird has to say." 
I glanced at the ^•isitol•, and saw that he wore the sj-mbol of a promi­nent fraternal organization. Without further preliminaries, my friend went on: "This man was just saying that the Catholic Church is the only spir­itual fo2-ce for law and order in this countrj'." 
In the spirit of the occasion, I re­plied in kind: "Is he just finding that out? We've known that for a long time." 
The stranger then spoke in his own behalf: "I didn't put it just that way. I said that the Catholic Church and the Masons are the only large organ­izations in this country that have any effective program agains t Bolshe­^•ism." 
I replied: "More power to you. If you men can help in the work we have been doing for the last nineteen hundred years, we will be very glad. We have been fighting too much alone." 
There, then, is the task of Catholic education in America—to restore the supernatural to American life. Long ago our Catholic forbears accepted the commission to protect the faith of Catholics by parochial schools fin­anced thi'ough self-imposed taxation. Patriotic considerations now move us to enlarge the field of our work—to make our students more conscious of the part they must henceforth play in spiritualizing a country that is slip­ping into paganism. Weak-kneed Catholicism cannot do this work. There are still too many of our people who are ashamed of their religion, who through fear of losing a job or in order to gain social prestige miss Mass on Sunday or otherwise com­promise their religious principles. No Catholic should ever have an infer­iority complex regarding his religion. The glories of the Catholic Church should be known to every Catholic; our pupils must become thoroughly aware of the contributions of the Church to civilization and the refine­ment of culture, to the arts, to the science of government. They must know of the long fight the Church has waged for personal liberty. They must be made to realize that today only the Catholic Church teaches a complete philosophy of personal lib­erty, which is based on the need of the soul for freedom in its search for God. 
BROTHER ALEXANDER AS A TEACHER 
(Continued from Pase 179) 

Alexander's father may have had an opportunity to apply the knowledge of mathematics he acquired in the shelter of a hedge. At any rate, it was to serve him in good stead when he acted as tutor to his son Charles. 
The lad continued his education at Sacred Heart College, Watertown, which was conducted by the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. When a young man he entered the Congregation. Nearly all of his life as a Brother was spent in the service of the University —as prefect, rector of Carroll Hall, and teacher. He taught until failing eyesight obliged him to retire from his beloved classroom. Still active about His Father's business, he en­joyed a green old age. On February 17, 1926, Brother Alexander closed a pair of tired blue eyes in death. 
CAMPUS NOTES 
(Continued from Page 185) 

"Shell Chateau" program on its Eas­ter vacation tour. . . . John P. Don­nelly, Michigan City, Indiana, has been named as senior football man­ager for next Fall. . . . other appoint­ments include: James W. Mulhem, Palisade, New Jersey, and William P. Condon, Greenville, Mississippi, asso­ciate football managers; John C. Lundgren, Sioux City, Iowa, basket­ball; Thomas D. Bond, Franklin, Ohio, baseball; Thomas A. Kelly, Anaconda, Montana, track; Donald W. Fisher, Utica, New York, tennis; and Joseph 
F. Nigro, Trinidad, Colorado, fencing and golf. . . . 
* RAUCH IN A. R. 
Professor Rufus W. Kauch, of the Department of English, published an article in the American Review en­titled, "Intimations of Mortality." . . . "Optics in Metallurgy" was the topic of H. W. Zieler, New York City, president of E. Leitz, Inc., in an ad­dress before the Notre Dame chapter of the American Society of Metals. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus April. 1937 
»

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Mary Cash-man and Louis Chreist, Jr., '33. The marriage will take place April 17, in South Bend, Indiana. 
Marriages 
Miss Mary Lou Hebert and Thomas 

F. Green, Jr., '27, were married Feb­ruary 6, in Beaumont, Texas. 
Miss Blanche A. Burnet and John Hugh Gaughan, '28, were married March 1, in Clarksville, Tennessee. 
Sliss Grace Mary Webster and Jo­seph Edward Keefe, '29, were mar­ried February 7, in Lakeland, Florida. 
Miss M. Elizabeth Keene and John 

H. Travers, '33, were married March 29, in Buffalo, New York. 
Miss Isabel T. Eegan and Edward Joseph Butler, '34, were married March 29, in Philadelphia, Pa. 
Miss Zella Mill Field and John G. Fry, '35, were married April 3. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Shelanskey, '28, announce the birth of a son, Feb­ruary 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Happer, '29, 

announce the birth of a son, March 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. L. (Bob) Barrett, 

'29, announce the birth of a son, Feb­
ruary 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Staelens, '33, announce the birth of a son, Richard Paul, February 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. Miguel J. Yriberry, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, Nancy Ellen, January 10, Peru, South America. 
Deaths 
Death came suddenly on March 12 to Johnny O'Brien, as it had SIX years before to the man who made him nationally famous, Knute Rockne. 
Returning to South Bend from Harvard, Illinois, where he had shown the football pictures to the Knights of Columbus, Johnny, evi­dently dozing momentarily at the wheel late at night, crashed into the under-structure of a railroad in Chi­cago. He died soon afterwards. 
The former end coach and assist­ant track coach is survived by his wife and three small children, the oldest only four and a half. Burial was in his "home town" of Holly­wood, California, with the officers and members of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles taking a gener­ous part in the funeral arrangements 
JOHNNY O'BRIEN 
R. I. P. 

and in the funeral itself. Mr. and Mrs. Bill Cemey accompanied Mrs. O'Brien and the children from South Bend. 
Father George Scott preached the funeral sermon. Larry Moore, Tom Lieb, Manie Vezie and Al Scott, from the alumni, and Bob Lackman and Francis Tappan were the pallbearers. 
Johnny O'Brien became famous in the annals of Notre Dame athletic history, as "One-Play" O'Brien. His first taste of fame came to him dur­ing the football season of 1928, when he was sent into the Notre Dame-Army game by Knute Rockne and caught a touchdo^vn pass that gave 
Tfie 7937 Reunion Classes 
1932 (Five year) 1926,1927,1928, and 1929 (Dix) 1912 (Twenty-five year) 1907,1908,1909, and 1910 (Dix) 1888,1889,1890, and 1891 (Dix) 1887 (Fifty year) 1897 (Special 40th) 1917 (Special 20th) 1922 (Special 15th) St. Joe Hall (Special) 
The dates: 
June 4ih. 5th and 6th, 1937 
the Irish a 12-6 victory over the West 
Pointers who were leading that year 
for a national championship. 
Two years later his fame was to 
give Notre Dame another victory. 
Sent into the game as a decoy, John­
ny O'Brien went out for another pass 
and drew the entire secondary with 

him while March Schwartz went for 
a touchdown that beat the Army 7-6. 

Johnny came to Notre Dame from Los Angeles where he had established a brilliant high school record. After graduation from Notre Dame in 1931, he spent three years as assistant football coach under Rip Miller at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. In 1934 he became head football coach and athletic director at St. Edward's university in Austin, Texas. Then in the spring of 1936 he returned again to Notre Dame and was made assistant coach both to Coach Layden of the football team and to Coach Nicholson of the track team. 
As a hurdler of real achievement, Johnny was also a bright track star at Notre Dame. He captained the 1931 track team and in the C. I. C. indoor meet of that year set a world record for the 60-yard high hurdles, 
7.5 seconds. Sentman, of Illinois, knocked off another fifth second just six hours later. 
Indicative of the supreme regard in which Johnny was held by every one everywhere (for his high quali­ties of mind and heart and his unfail­ing cheerfulness) is this poem, writ­ten for the ALUMNUS by Sigmund John Sluszka, '35: 
The player knows how keen is the game's 
fiBht. How sad to live, how sweet perchance to die. Is fame his joy? He met her on the height. And when he fell he made his battle cry: Eyes are wet, and not soon to become dry. Nor shall we stint his praise, or our delieht. As One-Play O'Brien served Notre Dame 
aright And made his fame the shout-word sky high. In our memory he is with us still: He tends our faith, he soothes as -when we 
grieve. His acts were just: his words we do believe— And none shall spurn him, though his blood 
is spilled. And pierced is her heart with throbs not stilled; Death dies for him whose fame is his reprieve. 
One of the most enthusiastic and constructive Notre Dame supporters through many years, Francis Dunn, Joliet, Illinois, died in Joliet on March 10 after a heart attack. An honorary member of the Alumni Association and an honorary member of the Notre Dame Club of Joliet, Francis was known widely for his ardent activi­ties in behalf of the University and the club. Every Notre Dame under­taking had his hearty co-operation. His son, Francis, will finish in law at the University this June. 
Thomas J. Sheridan, '86, until his retirement last September federal referee in bankruptcy in the San Francisco district, died in San Fran­cisco on March 6, the victim of a heart attack, according to a clipping thoughtfully sent to the Alumni Of­fice by Dr. J. M. Toner, ex. '00. llr. Sheridan had served two four-year terms as referee, refusing a third term. 
Mr. Sheridan's death ended a long and distinguished career. Formerly a law associate of ex-Senator Samuel Shortridge, he was later an assistant United States attorney. Through all the years, although %videly removed from the campus, he retained an ac­tive interest in Notre Dame, and was particularly generous in his support of the Alumni Association. 
Surviving are Mrs. Sheridan, four daughters and two sons. The family residence is at 2314 Mitchell Street, Oakland. 
Matthew Barrow Torbetl, Atlanta, Georgia, who could lay just claim to being the oldest old student of Notre Dame, died in his home on February 
2. Mr. Torbett attended the Univer­sity in 1873. His interest in the Uni­versity was exemplary and lasting. 
The entire file of Mr. Torbett's papers concerning Notre Dame was very kindly sent to the University soon after his death by his daughter, Annie Goode Torbett. They jeveal that Mr. Torbett always had his. cam­pus days vividly in mind, and that he kept up a most interesting corre­spondence with Everett G. Graves, '76, San Antonio, Texas. There is many an identification in them of the older figures at Notre Dame,—Pro­fessor Stace, Joe Devine and Dan Maloney especially. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: Robert R. Phelan, '22, upon the death of his -m'fe; Frank Vogel, ex. '06, upon the death of his wife; James Conmey, '28, upon the death of his mother; Louis R. Rohlof, '32, upon the death of his father; Donald Haverick, '35, upon the death of his mother; Edward L. Ahlering, '25, and Joseph Ahlerinff, ex. '37, upon the death of their father; James Curran, '34, upon the death of his brother; Timothy P. Galvin, '16, and Frank 
J. Galvin, '23, upon the death of their father; Raymond F. Kohin, '24, and Professor Raymond A. Hoyer, A.M. '24, upon the death of the former's father and the latter's father-in-law. 
Personals 
Before 1880 secretary: Hon. T.F.Gal­
lasher, FitchburB. Mass. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1880-1885 Secretary: Prof. Robert M. Anderson, Circlevillc, Ohio. 
1886 Secretary: Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
1887 GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Hcincman, Connersvilte, Indiana. John Heineman will be present for the fiftieth anniversary reunion of his class. He writes that he is especially eager to meet Neal Ewing, whom he has not seen since their graduation day. 
* 

1889 Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Camp New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Gene Melady, in Omaha, recently landed a handsome picture of himself on the front page of the Omaha World-Herald when he was instru­mental in having a gang of con men broken up after they attempted to fleece one of his customers. A month later a copy of the latest edition of Gene's St. Patrick Day cards was welcomed in the Alumni Office. 
1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P. Chute, 7 Univ. Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
Secretary: Hugh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 

1894 
67th St.. New York City. 
Secretary: Eustace Cullinan, Sr., S60 Phelan Bide-, San Francisco, Calif. 

1895 
1896 Secretary: William P. Burns. 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara. St. Jos. Sanitarium. Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
1898 Secretary: William C. Kcgler, 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1899 Secretarj-: Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Blvd., Peoria, El. 
1900 
Dr. Joseph M. Toner was about to undergo an operation in St. Mary's Hospital, San Fi-ancisco, when he wrote a note from the hospital on March 9. 
1901 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Qark St., Chicago. HI. 
* 

1902 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell, 110 S, Dearborn St , Box 3, Chicago, HI. 
* 

1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke. 901 Trust Go. Bldg.. Jlilwaukee. Wis. 
* 

1904 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart. Indiana. 
* 

1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor. 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, HI. 
* 

1906 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldg.. Spokane. Wash. 
* 

1907 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke. C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
* 

1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Building, Geveland, Ohio. 
197 

1909 Secretary: E.P . Clesry. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
* 

J910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
* 

1911 Secretary: Fred Steers. 1666 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, HI. The Alumni Office recently received a letter from Thomas A. Ford, who is practicing law in Dayton, Ohio. 
1912 SILVER ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., Pittsburgh, Pa. Secretary Kaiser has appointed Fred Mendez, South Bend, as local chairman in charge of the silver an­niversary re-union, and Fred is al­ready eagerly at work on the plans. Letters, with suggestions, can be ad­dressed to him at 125 South Lafay­ette Boulevard, South Bend. 
Ed Weeks, in Detroit, conveys the word that he will be among those present for the three big days in June. 
1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt 921 En­gineers* Bldg., Geveland, Ohio. Dr. R. M. Kaczmarek, professor of biology in the University, delivered on March 4 an enthusiastically - re­ceived talk before the Kiwanis Club in South Bend. 
* 

1914 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of America Bldg., Anaheim, Cal. Elmer Layden recently visited in Peru, Indiana, with Dutch Bergman. Though confined to his bed for nearly 14 years, Dutch retains a keen inter­est in all things concerning Notre Dame. He follows the football team by radio and, when Elmer visited with him, he was intently following the fortunes of the basketball team. 
1915 Secretary: James E. Sanford. 1524 Farwell Ave., Chicago, HI. 
^9| g Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Ind. Father Vince Mooney, CS.C, is again in Washington, D. C. to as­sume charge of the youth bureau of the National Catholic Welfare Coun­
cil. Until recently he was diocesan director of the Catholic Youth Organ­ization, with headquarters in Fort Wayne. Before that he was in charge of the C.Y.O. in the South Bend deanery. 
* 

1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St, Elgin, DL Royal Bosshard is definitely going to be present for the re-union in June, according to very recent dope 
from Eddie McOsker, class secretary. Eoyal wrote to Ed, in part as follows: 
"I have been looking forward to seeing a lot of the old boys with a great deal of pleasure, and I do hope that we will have a large number of our class in attendance. 
"Everj'thing is going along fine with us here, and the Bosshard family now consists of a girl ten and a boy seven." 
Such is the dope from the senior class president of '17. 
Eddie expected to leave for the Pacific coast on March 31 for a month's trip and planned to see Royal, in San Francisco, Howard Parker, in Sacramento, and many others along the way. 
Elmer Tobin is another certaintj' for the re-union. He'll help Ed keep Elgin, Illinois, on the map for the week-end. 
fOlfi Secretary" John A. Lemraer, 1110— Sth Ave.. S., Escanaba. Mich. 
|Q1Q Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Sireet. Gar>-. Iniiianji. Louis Harmon was a member of the entertainment committee for the annual banquet of the St. Joe County Bar Association held in South Bend on March 20. The committee also included Francis Jones, Irving Hur­wich and John Shively. 
iqon Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Black 
x^&u jjijj,^ j^ ^ AnKclcs. Calif. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. DufTy, 1600 Ter­minal Tower. Cleveland, Ohio. 
Tom Dollard, '21, is with the Architect's Office, of the State of New York, located in Albany. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe. Buffalo Ath­•* leUc Club, Buffalo. New York. Kid Ashe, the faithful and ener­getic, writes: Father George Fischer, C.S.C., writes from the Holy Cross Mission House, North Easton, Massachusetts, under date of March 11, the note fol­lowing: "Many thanks for your note about Chuck Foley's death. "Father Joe Rick, C.S.C, was here for a couple of days this week; He returns to India on the Queen Mar}% the 24th. He looks fine and loves the work. He has been in the States since last April, gathering contribu­tions for the Missions. 
"Ed Gottry is still in the Domini­can House of Studies in River Forest, 
m. Tells me he sees Jerry Dixon often. 
"We've been ver^' busy and I'm 'booked solid' until June. If I get near Buflialo at Easter time, I hope to see you." 
Jerry Dixon, assistant attorney general of the state of Illinois, is representing his state in federal court in a verj' important case wherein cer­tain motor truck carriers are fighting Illinois statutes governing motor transports, on grounds that such sta­The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tutes are unconstitutional and preju­
dicial, etc. 
Pete Champion paid US a short visit a few days ago. Pete is vice-presi­dent of the Champion Rivet Com­pany. He does considerable traveling in the interests of Champion Non-Such rivets. 
Hunk Anderson reported for duty at Michigan on March 15. 
Rumor has it that John Huether, of General Electric, is to be put in charge of the Sales Department for Hea^Y Industries, effective April 1. Of course, this rumor did not origin­ate with John, who would be the last person to mention such a thing. 
All signs point toward a large out­pouring of 1922 men for Commence­ment this June. Inquiries of Com­mencement have been more plentiful than in years. 
Thurmond Mudd, LL.B. '22, for­merly with J. C. Penney Company and the merchandise department of Sears Roebuck, is now located in Los -An­geles, California, at 1839 West 65th Place. 
Mudd is an experienced merchan­dise research man, having developed many new items for both Sears and Penneys. He is now engaged in prod­uct development on the Pacific Coast, working with advertising agencies, large retailers, jobbers, trade associa­tions and manufacturers. 
Dr. Tom Keefe, Earl Park, Indiana, talked to the Academy of Science on the campus a few weeks ago. He pointed out to his student audience, in the light of his own experience, some of the relationships bet%veen their present studies and their future careers. 
"Bull sessions are seldom educa­tional as the student claims," he said in that connection. "They could be very profitable if they were directed toward lines in which the participants are well informed and if they were substantiated with proof. I am sad to say that I found that this was sel­dom the case." 
Bill Castellini, director of public relations for the Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, recently co - operated with John Neeson in guiding Profes­sor Art Reyniers around the city. Art reports generous and skillful "assist­ance from both the eminent citizens. 
University of Michigan alumni in South Bend honored Hunk Anderson ^\-ith a special luncheon on March 13. 
* 
1923 ^'"'' H. Castner, 191 Ttalton Rd., 
Sprinefield, Mass. 
Cullen Burke, '23, is assistant com­missioner of motor vehicles of New York State, located in Albany. 
* 
Father Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C. discussed Communism and social re­form at a recent meeting of the South Bend deanery of the National Council of Catholic Women. 
April, 1937 

William T. Fitzgerald, North Ver­non, Indiana, has been appointed by Governor Townsend as judge of the Scott-Jennings County circuit court to fill the vacancy caused by the death of the preceding judge. 
* 

1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. F. Ped­rick & Co., Emp. State BldB.. N.Y.C. Vernon "Tex" Rickard, according to many clippings from the New York papers, is now singing in Gui­do's Sapphire Room, one of the snoo­ziest places in Manhattan. One of the concoctions brewed by his press agent had Tex as a catcher on the 
Notre  Dame  baseball  team  three  
years ago.  
•  

1925 Secretarj-: John W. Scallan. 79 E. Ad.ams St., Chicago, III. Charlie Mouch, in Sandusky, Ohio, is one of the prime movers in the move to establish a Notre Dame club there. 
Fred House has been recently named building manager of the As­sociates Building, one of the largest office sites in South Bend. In addi­tion to his work there he is credit correspondent for the Associates In­vestment Company. 
Lewis J. Fricke was named head of the claim division for the Travelers Insurance Company in the South Bend district. This is one of the most important positions for the com­pany in the state. 
Dr. Cornelius S. Hagerty is com­pleting his second year on the medical staff of the University of Alabama. He expects to return to Chicago in the summer. 
* 

1926 Secretary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Orange, N.J. Professor Norb Engels, on March 15, discussed the poetrj' of Father Charles L. O'Donnell before the Cath­olic Forum of South Bend. 
* 

1927 Secret-lry: Edmund DeOerq, 81IS Ellis Ave.. Chicago, HI. Professor Maurie Pettit recently addressed a Youth Week dinner-meet­ing in the First Methodist Episcopal Church, South Bend. That noted Glee Clubber of a dec­ade ago, Frank Hagenbarth, writes as follows (in sending in his alumni dues): "I am now with the H. J. Heinz Co., with headquarters at 2998 San Pablo Ave., Berkeley, Calif. My sales work takes me through the states west of the Rocky Mountains. During my travels I am fortunate enough to meet some of my friends and classmates of Notre Dame. "At the present time I am in Port­land, Oregon. Norbert Kavanaugh, '26, is engaged in the practice of law here with his father. Tom McMahon, '26, is also here. "The ALUMNUS improves with age. The class of 1927, however, seems to be losing interest in keeping the news items up to date. I enter this 
April, 1937 
as a plea to the fellow members of the class of '27 to awaken ourselves and let the other fellows know how the world is treating us. Our Notre Dame heritage is a precious one—let us keep alive its recollection." 
1928 Sccrctarj-: Louis Buckley. 718 E. Corby St., South Bend. Ind. 
Secretaiy Buckley got away from the Supreme Court controversy long enough to say: 
I picked up a bit of information concerning the '28 men from Art Gleason and John Herbert when they visited me a few months ago. John is travelling with a religious goods house in the East. Art is with Good­rich Rubber Co., in Akron, and is also practicing law there. Both John and Art are man-ied, and Art has three children. Richard Green is married and located in Syracuse. Paul Brady, now a lawyer in Paines­ville, Ohio, is married and has t\vo children. Charlie Kyser is another classmate who is practicing law in Lakewood, Ohio. Tom Boyle is with Bill O'Neil in the truck line business in Youngstown. 

Bob Hamilton surprised me by walking into my office a few weeks ago. Bob is still in the investment business in New^ York and playing basketball with the N.Y.A.A. Bob mentioned that he sees Larry Culliney quite often. Lariy travels out of New York for the Federal Deposit In­surance Corporation. Bob inquired about the chain lettei-s that I started among the classmates. They evident­ly are pigeonholed somewhere. I'll be glad to run them in this column if they are returned. 
A postal from Vince Carney from Mexico indicated that he enjoyed himself so well with Connie Ochoa last year that he has returned for an­other visit. 
Andy Mulreany, C.S.C., WTOte from Holy Cross Seminary in Washington, D.C., for some addresses of class­mates. We are all looking forward to Andy's ordination June _24 at Notre Dame. The first word that I have had from Phil Lytle came the other day from DuBois, Pennsylvania, %vhere he is with the Pennsylvania Electric Company, and is still single. Phil said that he sees the annual game in Pittsburgh each year. John Leitzinger is married and has two children. John is located in Clear­field, Pennsylvania. Al Davis is with General Motors in Cleveland. He is also married and a father. Phil Lj^tle 
promises to be back for our ten-year reunion in 1938. Bob Hamilton also promised to be present. 
Andy Powers, executive \'ice-presi­dent and general manager of the Al­manaris Mineral Springs Co., Wauke­sha, Wisfconsln, recently stopped off at Notre Dame to discuss some adver­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tising in the ALUJINUS. The result is the full-page ad on the front inside cover of this issue. You'll enjoy read­ing it—and using Almanaris, too. 
* 

1929 Secretarj": Joseph P. McNamam, 231 Wiscnsin Street, Indianapol's, Ind. (Editors' warning: take a strong stimulant before reading. You won't believe it, of course, but this elegant copy was really sent in by the class secretary): Rumor hath it that the eminently-successful Frank P. McCarthy, now Van Camp Condensed Milk Com­pany executive, heard from his tailor recently, "I'll have to let-out so many seams that I might as well make up a new suit for you." Immediately tariffs, cost of production, taxes, etc., began playing second fiddle to stren­uous workouts at the Hoosier Athletic Club where Mac's name is listed as an officer. (See's note: truth is that Mc­Carthy has always been so huge that the alleged increase was not readily apparent when last we met Mac, but he's said to be worried just the same.) Studious and capable Albert F. Franlz announces the opening of new law offices at 520-528 E. and C. Building, Denver, Colorado. Al's tel­ephone number is Main 1433. The '29ers are unanimous in wishing him the success he so richly deserves. Energetic Dick Zimmerly, whose art work for the Juggler appearing anonymously endeared him to the class, has been re-discovered as one of the ablest architects specializing in modem design. Dick sports a dis­tinguished mustache, is unspoiled by a reputation for outstanding ability; limits his work to 19 houi-s a day. Dick is still genial, charming, im­mensely interesting and interested, and calm, though rushed by demands upon his time. Matt J. Cullen, still the busy bar­rister at 635, number 160 North La Salle Street, Chicago, is engaged in building up a real law library for his firm. Pressure is being put on Matt to induce him to report the doings of the Chicago '29ers for the next issue. Bill Kreig recently was chairman of Indianapolis' highest anti-Commu­nistic meeting and introduced the in­comparable Pat Manion whose ad­dress was, as is usual, flawless. Sorin Hall '29ers who light any­where near Carej', Ohio, will want to visit the one-and-only Walt Greer whose official job of "bringing over the mail" kept him from missing some of the "rewards" to which most everyone felt his "human alarm clock" activities entitled him. . . . The secretary is anxious to annex the address of Bob Schuize of "who put the dog in Professor Provost's room?" fame. Ran into Fred Baer recently: Fred is doing a fine job in the field of adult education for one of the Federal al­
phabetical agencies. He stated that 
he was anxious to hear something of 
ex-Wrangler president James J. 
Walsb, Jr. and Tom Keegan. In fact, 
Baer proposes that an all-Wrangler 
reunion be held on the campus comes 
this Commencement time. 
Indianapolis is to have its first pub­
lic outdoor Stations of the Cross this 
Good Friday because of the untiring 
efforts of John Rocap and Frank Noll, 
III. 
Bob Kirby's latest triumph is the 
staging of one of Postmaster-General 
Jim Farley's greatest victory dinners 
at five dollars per plate, whether you 
were able to fight through the throng 
of Bob's friends to get a plate or not. 
Indianapolis seems proud to be pro-
Kirby, even though he did wear a red 
tie to the St. Patrick's Day breakfast 
of the A.O.H. 
Jim Boehning retained his position 
as accountant of Conservation De­
partment of Indiana, despite the 
change in administration. 
Next month Class of 1929 notes 
will probably be outstanding, because 
we- hope to give you' information 
gathered in New York by John Nan­
ovic, who is the editor-in-chief of 
three magazines, at one and the same 
time; information gathered in the 
East by Walter (Bud) McMorrow, 
sometimes of Buffalo; notes from the 
Pacific coast gathered by Smiling 
Charley Cash; and of course from 
Chicago notes cooked up by Chef 
Matt Cullen, or from any one who 
wishes to get his story in before Matt 
has "told all"! . 
Sending his check for alumni dues, 
Bob Barrett, writes from Albany, 
Oregon; where he is in the farm ma­
chinery business: 

I spent an evening with Norb Kav­anaugh while in Portland recently. Ed Murphy is calling him the "Hunch-Back of Notre Dame." Norb's back has been bad for a long time and still looks that way. While the medi­cos seem to have cured his ailment he retains a bad posture as a remind­er of by-gone days. Norb is doing well with his law. Ed Murphy is with his brother Harry in the lumber busi­ness and gets into Portland once in a w^hile. He became a father just a few months ago and, I hear, is stand­ing it quite well, though I haven't seen him to pass judgment. 
My cousin, Ray Barrett, '32, is in the business with us here and my brother Bill, ex. '33, is now associated in the transportation department of the Columbia Steel Corporation, at San Francisco. 
Ivan LeBlanc, who is practicing law in Alpena, Michigan, was married last July 6, to Miss Mary Margaret Manion, in Sacred Heart Church, at the Bernini Altar, Notre Dame. Bev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, performed the ceremony. TSxs. Leblanc is the sister of James Manion, '38. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St., New Kensin^non, Pa. A letter from Dick Bloom gives his new address. It is 59 Webcowet Road, Arlington, Massachusetts. He is with Oneida, Ltd., as sales repre­sentative in the New England terri­tory. He reports that his family has grown to two fine boys. 
1931 Secretarj-: John Bergan, 82S E. Col­fax Ave.. South Bend. Ind. 
John Bergan writes: 
For the second successive month this column begins with the sad news of the passing of one of the mem­bers of our class. The untimely death of Johnny O'Brien, on March 12, was certainly a blow to his many friends in the class and to the alumni at large. Most of those who had at­tended the Eeunion last June can recall John's pleasure to be able to return to Notre Dame and coach. He was president of our freshman class and always active in affairs of the class during his four years at Notre Dame. A Mass will be offered for the repose of his soul on April 15 at Notre Dame at the request of the class, and it is earnestly hoped that all of the members will co-operate by attending in their •.• a r i o u s parish churches. Bert Matzger and Tom Conley were on hand for the funeral. 
Candid cameraman Bill Sullivan made the March 15th issue of Life. The photo shows him snapping a cho­rus girl. Bill is working in Chicago and can be found at State and Madi­son passing out cigars on the airival of his second daughter the latter part of February. He expects to join the Cleveland Indians soon. 
Had lunch with Bill Chawgo on one of my sojourns to Chicago. He is getting along well -nith the capital income tax di\nsion of the Internal Revenue department, Chicago. Mars Condon also is still at the Morrison hotel, and recently took a major prize in the tallest hotel clerk contest. He promises good sen-ice to any mem­ber of the class who stops at his hostelrj'. 
Father Patrick Duffy, C.S.C, genial assistant pasto r of St. Patrick's church. South Bend, was one of the principal speakers at A.O.H. St. Pat­rick's Day banquet held in South 
Bend. Father John O'Connell, C.S.C, 
is in charge of the graduate Social Work curriculum at the University. He is also rector of Freshman hall. 
A very congenial letter from Larry Krai, sales manager of the Buckeye OfBce Equipment Co., discloses some very interesting news concerning our Cleveland contingent. Dr. Frank (Dolly) Gannon completes his in­temeship at St. John's Hospital next month, and is able to cut the liver out of a humming bird in the dark with a penknift. Joe Gavin's Holy Name high school won the Cleveland high school league championship for 1937 while George Kozak had a great year The Notre Dame Alumnus 

with his John Adams high school foot­ball team. Frank Svoboda has left the Mutual Building and Trust Co. John Zabach is still in Ashtabula. Doc Hogan is also working in Cleve­land. 
Jack McGrath was a South Bend visitor for the Notre Dame-Minnesota game, and has given up his clothing business in Evansville since the flood. He hopes to locate in Cleveland or South Bend. Paul Fehlig is still in the lumber business in St. Louis, still single, but expects to middle-aisle this summer. Had a letter from Jiai Kearney, and he is with the editorial division of the Callaghan Company, law book publishers, Chicago, and has interpreted many of the new court decisions for the followers ^of Black­stone. Guess that Joe Lauerman has been snowed in by the greater Wis­consin storms for no news has been received of our Wisconsin-Minnesota group, which includes, Fishleigh, Tel­
fel, Chrisman et al. 
Karl Sherer is working with his 
father in the drug business in Roch­ester. Bill Desenberg is practicing law in Buchanan, Michigan. Tom Reed is adjusting claims for the lekel .A.gency, South Bend. 
So as Harvey Woodruff says, HELP, HELP that means news from all of you. 
Jack Shively, practicing law in South Bend with his father, Dudley Shively, '92, was recently appointed as special investigator for County Prosecutor George Beamer, '29. 
Tom Ditchfield, recently of Chica­go, is now in South Bend as district traffic agent for the Illinois Central System. His offices are in 801 J.M.S. building. 
1932 FIVE-YEAR RE-UNION 
June 4, 5, 6 
1932 Secretarj-: Herbert Giorgio. 9005 ISSth St.. Hollis. L. I.. New York. 
With his check for dues, Charlie Crockett, the old sax expert from Alexandria, Louisiana, sends a fine letter commenting most favorably on the Pontiac broadcast from the cam­pus. He said further: 
"During the Christmas holidays I gave an informal dinner party for the boys who were in Alexandria at that time. Those who were present are as follows: John Barrett, Tom, Albert, and Francis David, John McKean, Philip Jacobs, Frank Brame, and Bill Marsh, both of whom are Freshmen this year, and Camille Gravel. George Pope, who lives in a nearby town, was unable to be present, having arranged a partj' that night for the men in his plant. 
"I understand that Moon Mullins 
April, 1937 
was in Alexandria yesterday, on his way down to New Orleans. He had dinner with the McKeans, but I failed to see him. I saw Willie Wolff down in Baton Rouge for the L.S.U.-Miss. game." 
Ed Koontz, from the Biltmore Litho, Biltmore, North Carolina, comes through with a corking sugges­tion for the '32 re-union in June. He says, in "a wide open letter to the Commerce Alumni, '32, and the Com­merce Faculty": 
"I've been thinking — iVh! Yes. During the past five years, no doubt, we have all had our moments? — What a grand Bull Session could be possible during the Reunion in June! 
"In '32 we all parted with similar views on the World in general and of the Commerce Courses. Now after five years exposure, the views, not only of classmates who have crammed side by side—^but also those who made them cram, on the past, pres­ent, and future should make for a luscious "Round-up". 
To the Dean of Commerce,— Please give the idea a thought. To Commerce Alumni, '32,— Does it sound appetizing? 
I'll buy the peanuts. 
Word was recently received in the Alumni Office that Clayton Duerr, formerly of Benton Harbor, Michi­gan, is now residing in Waco, Texas. 
lO^ ^ Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant ^^^^ St.. Joliet. in. 
John J. Galla made a giant stride in his field of social work recently, when he received a four-year appoint­ment as Superintendent of the De­partment ofPublicWelfareof Bridgeport, Connecticut. For the last year or so John had held this office provisionally; evidently he has made good. 
A note from Francis R. Cawley tells us that he was admitted to the practice of law in the District of Co­lumbia last October. Frank has been working for the Government and at­tending Georgetown Law School since leaving N. D., and expects to receive his degree in June. 
George Aug, Jr., '33, now with the Personal Finance Company, in Cin­cinnati, Ohio. The note was received from George just as the flood hit Cin­cinnati. 
Mike Koken and his family are among the latest additions to the South Bend population. Mike is the local representative of a Cleveland transportation company, according to the local press. He got together with Rocco Schiralli recently to go ovei­the situation. Rocky was in South Bend on his rounds of the state as a representative of a Milwaukee beer company. 

1934 Secretary: James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndalc Ave., Ghicaf^, 111. 
Al McGuff succeeded Paddy Dris­
coll as athletic director and coach of 
football and basketball at St. Mel's 
High School, Chicago, when Paddy 
accepted the job as head football 
coach at Marquette. Al is a St. Mel 
product and was a noted athletic fig­
ure there. 
Dr. Matt Weis, president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis, very kindly sent along a copy of the St. Louis University Neivs, which told that Jim Galbraith, Henry Gannon and Mark Donovan, '33, Juniors in the St. Louis School of Medicine, had all been named to Alpha Omega, na­tional medical honorary fraternity. Only two other Juniors in the School were similarly honored. Thi-ee out of five for Notre Dame! Verj- nice, boys! 
Jim Galbraith was also named to Alpha Sigma Nu, Jesuit honor soci­ety. He is president of the Junior class. 
An unidentified benefactor in New York City shipped the following notes to ye ALUMNUS: 
William Klima, '34, going to St. John's Law School. 
August P. Petrillo, A.B. '35, Law 
'36, now a member of New York Bar. 
Clipper Smith now coaching Mt. St. Michael's Prep. Jim Reville, Jr., '35, working for New York City Park Department. Joe Condon, A.B. '35, Law '36, in New York City taking Bar exam. 
Sending in his dues, John Maher writes: 
"During the football season I'm in Pittsburgh w^ith the Pirates of the Na­tional Professional Football League as secretary and publicity director, but am now employed by the St. Louis Browns' baseball club. In about three weeks [he wrote on March 10] I shall return to the East—to Johns­town—as business manager of that club in the Middle Atlantic League. Johnstown is operated by the Browns." 
John hoped to stop off at Notre Dame on his way East. 
Clem Kurdys, 97 Van Cleef -A.ve­nue, Jersey City, New Jersey, was re­cently married to Rosemarie Reaves, according to the dope in the Alumni Office. 
1935 Secretary: F. C. Hochreitcr. 1014 N. Eddy St., South Bend. Indiana. Here is the Hochreiter supplement for April: 
We are back in our old stride again after a couple months of lethargy. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Our last trip to press showed signs of the return of prosperous days in the way of bigger and better jabber­ing. But when we have on our list of correspondents officials of New York importing companies, that means w^e are again "back in the big time." Letters have come from the industrial east these past weeks and they carried whisperings of '35ers far and wide. So here we go! 
Word reaches our ears about one of our number who has evaded our bitter bickerings until now. Walt Powers, of the Jamaica, Long Island Powers, is holding forth in Gimbel's Department Store in the metropolitan area of New York. Friend W. T. is in the advertising division of that nation-acclaimed concern, and, has moved along to the production end of the business. It is rumored that Walt has been appointed "Publicity Direc­tor" for the Gimbel organization in their stmggle for top notch place in the local department stores baseball league. 
Comes a note from Columbia. It seems that three of our "major grip­pers" of the '35-'3G vintage are still meeting in Child's on Broadway and 113th Street for their bi-weekly con­vocations. Father Tom McAvoy, Louis Grosso and Bob Rogers WTite of "hap­pier days at Columbia." We knew that the two former were still daily saluting Alma Mater on the librarj' steps, but we did not know that Bob was with them. Their note infers as much. Query? (The Marines have not been tapped yet, gang, and you might tell Helen that we send eulo­gies of "better days.") 
We finally discovered the secret formula to arouse that Catskill moun­tain hermit—^Vince Gorman. A bit of an "old timer's reunion," involving certain feminine charm of not so long ago, brought us to the drastic meas­ures of wiring the spirit of the vacant chair. After a week's pondering the spirit wired back. Vince is "still sit­uated at the gateway to the Cat­skills." His occupation? We'll try to get that next time. 
George "Mugs" McGrath dropped us a short note from Ware, Massa­chusetts, to convey Easter Greetings and news. "Mugsy" writes that he is Fii-st Aid man on the Metropolitan Water Commission. (We do not know what metropolis but then, why quib­ble about tri\'ialities?) 
Of that Ware boy named Harry Dabol Gafney, the son of Ware's Dr. Gafney, might we inform his waiting public that he is physical director and coach for Ware High School. And a further note from our eastern cor­respondent says he is the "only Notre Dame man in western Massachusetts and doing a noble piece of work." 
The New York Neivs' crack police headquarter's reporter, Bill Hubert Toumey, sent us much fine stuff for the "month of showers." We do not know if it was a slip, but Bill did mention writing his contribution from the city lock-np. 
Bill Murtha is now worldng as a newspaper man. He is in the Wash­ington office of the Daily News. 
Bill tells us that Joe Kaley "comes down out of the provinces (Milton, New York) occasionally." Jack Rain­ey also finds time to sneak away to the "big town." We are told that the three of them made merry after the N.D.-N.Y.U. game. 
The last we heard of Mike Santulli 
he was studying the pearls of Black­
stone. Bill writes that he sees Mike 
frequently and that the countryman 
of II Duce is trying to sample the 
glamour of the "fourth estate" and is 
negotiating with the town's leading 
dailies. 
Of Jim Corregan, Bill, we know nothing. That "fun-loving" brother of John, that beaming apostle of the Jerry Foley wit, seems to have dropped from the picture. Attention, Jim! Quo Vadus? [Ed's note: Such Latin!] 
We understand that Bob Scott is 
still thrashing the great west with his 
company's product supreme. 
As for the cheer leader divine— little Jerry continues to "pick the cot­ton" and learn the trade from the bottom up in "deah Old Memphis." 
Last month we clamored for chat­ter about Bill Schmidt. So this month we give you the dope on Joe Schmidt. Joe is selling classified ads for the New York Sun. We always knew Joe would end up selling something. 
The "picture paper's greatest find" (still Toumey) writes that he saw Bill "Doc" Farrell in the lobby of the Garden on the night of the basketball game. His pastime is not yet deter­mined. Also in the mob were Hughie Devore and Jack Robinson. The lat­ter clings to his Sorin Hall marble championship, but it has taken a sec­ondary spot for the bond business that Jack started in last year. 
The last time we reported on Jim Hill, of Jefferson City, was a year ago last October; he was supposed to be with the Southwestern Bell Tele­phone Company in St. Louis. A let­ter to roomie last month comes from Jefferson City, Missouri. He says nothing of his escapades, but gives notice of his trip to N.D. for the June Commencement. May we place you in the home town, Jim? 
Kurt Simon is driving a new Ford (which proves some of us are pros­perous) and is working for his brother's wholesale grocery concern here in South Bend. (Kurt inquire.^ after you, Harry Sbephard. How about answering his letters?) 
For some time we have been en­deavoring to make out the face of a certain heavy-set Brother. It was not until recently that we discovered that our man in question is Bill Bums. 
now Brother Fergus. (Bill, (we pre­fer it that way) is working in the Treasurer's Office. Of his frere Joe —^more later. 
The beginning of March saw the periodic ^•isit of "King" LaLonde. Our first glance at his visage was be­hind a roll of spaghetti in Eosie's the night of the Pontiac Broadcast. Next day Tom drove us home and the usual "news - comment department" began to work. 
Our able agent informed us that Tom Thon:p5on is confined to Univer­sity Hospital in Ann Arbor. It seems that the tuberculosis bug has caught our budding barrister, and, he has been in the hospital for over t\vo months. How about a few letters to the "dapper Dan" of '35? It gets a bit lonesome in those places. Our best for a speedy recoveiy, Tom, and a return to the books. 
-•Vnother visitor dropped in that same week-end. Gene Witchger drove down with his folks to see the brother. The caf was the meeting place. We commandeered Gene for a tour of the city that Saturday- night and freshened a few memories. 
-•\.nd here is where we have an apologj- to make. It seems that sev­eral months back, when we went through the list of '35ers on the cam­pus, we missed one who definitely de­serv-es mention. Jerry Boyle has been assiduously working in the Univer­sitj- .A.rchives all year. He took his M..A.. last year in Medieval Studies, and is now the first assistant to the Archi\ist. (Jeri-v, our head hangs low!) 
We liave been observing Tom Owen in Dillon chapel occasionallj', and especially during Lent. One morning we collared him to discover his "ti-ade." Tom tells us that for the past five months he has been with the First Bank and Trust Company in the downtown area. 
-A.bove We mentioned the Pontiac progi-am. We expect that most of you heard it. But for those of you who didn't, the '35 prexie WTote the script for the comedy bit in the show. (Note! For those of you who did hear it:—it was a lot better before the producer's knife slashed it) 
Word reaches us that Frank Fitz­patrick is now in his second vear at M.I.T. 
.A.11 of which brings us to an expose of the men of Gushing Hall. We are grateful to George "Bud" Foss for the foIlo\ring: It seems that one Matt Sagartz has published a "Scandal Sheet of Note" and it gives, in no small measure, the dirt on the '35 engineers. "Bud" had a copy fresh oflc the press and volunteered the in­fo to us. After proper censoring for our "rag" we pass on some of the dope to you. 
Joe Burns is supposedly placed in 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and is working for a firm in that town. At the moment he is laboring on a gas line somewhere in the Quaker State. 
We quote for you on Bill Bernard. "Bill has been helping the country around Barberton get its G.E. matters quickly and efficiently cleaned up. He was working for his Dad for a spell after graduation and has had a fairly eventful life." 
Last October we announced Jerry Cushing's engagement. The "Scandal Sheet" tells of his approaching wed­ding in September. Anj-way, from it we also gather that Jerrj- has taken his Master's Degi-ee from M.I.T., and that he "is at present taking a short vacation before going to work for the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Com­pany. (We predicted that last year.) 
We like to think of Carlos de Lan­
dero as being one of us though he did linger to take his degree in '36. Car­los has been fencing for Alma Mater this season and is continuing gradu­ate studies here. He was working in Mexico last summer, and anticipates returning there this year. 
That long drink of water that put strange things in the "Groc's" bed back in '31 and '32, John Fry, has announced his engagement. The wed­ding will take place on April 3. The bride to be is Miss Zella Mill Field, of Kansas City, Jlissouri. M, the mo­ment John is working for the Santa Fe Railroad at Newton, Kansas. (Much luck and happiness, Johnnie!) 
The last we gave you on Bill Gor­gen he was working for the highway department out Wisconsin way. It seems that Bill is still with the road gang. We note that he is gunning for a Chicago job. 
We quote on Ed LaJeune. "Our little French chum is now a hard­working man. He is di-aftsman for some firm. He worked for the Amer­ican Bridge Company until a few weeks ago, but when the work let down he was loaned out to another company where he is doing better work, and knocking down a keener salary." 
Charlie Maher is still with WP-A in Norton, Kansas. It seems that he is progressing no end what ^\-ith his su­pervision of stadium and stone arch bridge building. We also learn that Charlie is doing much, driving from job to job and is paid by the mile. How about the detours, Charles? 
The "sheet" has it that Frank O'Connor is with the Oregon High­way Department and is helping lay out roads through canyons. 
Rumor has it that Jim Reville is still working for the City of New York. How are things going at the Ross' Tavern, Jim? We still can't for­get the N.Y.XJ. game a year ago. 
-A^nd now to the editor of that little 
April. 1937 
piece of "key-hole" chatter. Matt Sagartz got a job with the Lindbergh Steel Treating Company upon gradu­ation a year ago. The cyanide fumes got him and illness put a finis to his job. Jerry Cushing got him in mth the Great Lakes outfit where he worked last summer on a dredge. Last Fall Matt started with the Car­negie Illinois Steel Company and stayed with them until Christmas when he landed a job with the board of local improvements of the City of Chicago. 
The last we heard of Charlie Shill he was with WP-A in Peoria. The engineering journal of recent publi­cation places him in the coal mines in centi-al Illinois. jVbout this we query? 
That 240 pound midget Vic Wei­gand. Vic is now employed by an -Akron contractor. It is said that he was thinking of .Africa for Firestone but the proposition did not look too enticing for the Ohio wizard of the "slip-stick." 
-A.nd that about settles "our score" for -A.pril. -A^ Spring is in the air and June is not far off, how about plan­ning to visit the campus Commence­ment week-end? We might di-aw up a bit of a program if we thought you would be interested. Last June saw quite a few of the gang back, and this year that number might be im­proved upon. Let's hear from you along these lines. 
Note for Hochreiter: Walter Lay-den, late of South Bend, is the new United States probation officer in Muskogee, Oklahoma. Formerly a resident of Mc-Alester, Oklahoma, Walt had been employed in the office of the United States probation officer in South Bend. 
Barney Monaghan, Birmingham, -Alabama, who spent part of the '31­'32 as a Freshman in Carroll Hall, was recently chosen to hold a Rhodes scholarship at Oxford in England. Barney is now doing post graduate work at Han'ard. 
Dan Hanley is the line coach at De-Paul University in Chicago under the new athletic set-up there. 
Eli Abraham, the grand old man of the campus, was brilliantly in charge of a St. Patrick's Day banquet in South Bend staged by the Knights of Columbus of the second Indiana dis­trict. Eli is deputy of the second dis­trict, as well as financial secretary of the Notre Dame Council. 
Bill Voor, grand knight of the South Bend council, presided, and Paul Butler was toastmaster. Bishop John F. Noll, of Fort Wayne, Father Wendell Corcoran, C.S.C., state chap­lain of the K. of C., and Raymond M. Foley, Detroit, father of Paul Foley, '37, editor of the Scholastic, were 

iJMy Purchasing Plans for 1937 
Unless seriousTy considering pardMSuig'prod ucts or services listed, pleas* don't" clleci 
As they As you 
ow ikMmnsiis AH tur n amfi 
I Cs-i 
UKE IMHi HUSK MVM »

THINK REALLY ^ 
For My Home 
you are 

are D meioMu 
a KB.VINATOI 

Advertisers are funny folks: O 
They look at people in bunches and draw some amazingly inaccurate I Other Products ' Q Air Conditioning D Coal Stoker jcar, 
conclusions. They seem to think that a yachtsman goes to his office in blue 
I Q Oil Burner Q Efectric Range f^ ^ coat and white trousers, that a horseman wears spurs to keep his feet from I D Water Heater Q Electric Washer |SnE| rolling off his desk. Here's what they think about college graduates: I Q Bolter Burner D Electric Ironer I I plan to a Build Q Buy D Remodel in 111 
I 
They think all your I O Send free booklet on tB.VH HOME n Send free booklet on DELCO^RWIDAIU Heating and Aii daytime hours are spent Conditioning Products 
yelling at football 
j Careers for College Graduates 
games. 

A survey ot average earnings of members of a class ten year Never do you buy an after graduation showed insurarce men at the top of the list. automobile. 
Check here if interested in entering life insurance salesmanship We've got to change Q On commission basis D On fixed compensation basi that notion. Check here for a copy of the free booklet Q **lasT—c» Cireers for College 6ri<illii " 
Are you going to buy a car this year? 
For My Future 

If so, please tell us. 
I am interested in receiving information about* 
taimtMwt fregran for ttt Fatir* Relwtiwl lacnwa Ham Me«ty> bcoia* far ay fam3y

They think you spend 
td»c»tlo«»l tasvaK* for My CUM m your evening hours at laberif aae* Tax iasaraac* 
class reunions. 

Personal Property Insurance a Please send me a fr<» HOUSCHOLO INVEHTOKT Bookie 
You wouldn't think of buying an electric 
Automobiles 
refrigerator. 

n Under $aOO D J80O-SI20O ' D 5I200-52CXM Q OverWMC 
Or would you? 

n CHEVtOUT n-La Salle, " D .
Please tell us. 

a ddillac a OLPSMOIILE O --Used Cer n COtD D Pontiac Q , trailer n Dodge D Packard ' D : :.fruci 
Accessories . Q 600MICH THIS . _ Q, BaHery 
They think youspend 
your vacations at Com­
n — -: Tires Q Auto Heater 
mencement get-togeth­ers. 
Typewriters 

a ammcTON n Portable 
You're not one of the 
n l~ C. SMIQKOtOHA io Office 
people who go abroad. 
n-—• -' ' • — 
Or are you? If so, please tell us. Special Offei-s 
I n NEWS WEEK—the illustrated News Magazine. Send me the .. next 20 issues and bill for $1.00 (half the single copylprice), I Special offer new subscritiers only. -, -. 
It comes down I Q HEALTH RAT SUN UUMT-Send full details of special FREE I TRIAL; OFFER. • , •, • , _, ,• 
to this:— 

I D ntANKIIOmiBIS' FRte Booklet, "Sko* Strtes «M-MM" 
This magazine is a good advertising medium but it is hard to convince 
,1 '•—/..:./.,:.,. •.- "-.——-i 
the advertiser of it. We are in competition with the big national magazines 
I NAME. -• '-' -'• • •'• r ' '• -•.•--•' '•'•"•, 
that spend hundreds of thousands of dollars a year on market investiga­
ADDUSS 
tions and research. The big fellows prove what they've got. We little fellows must prove it too. The most convincing proof is definite statements 
CITr.l__ STATE-from our readers as to their intended purchases this year. 
COUE6E. CLASS. 
We hate to be a nuisance. We realize fully that requests for information I OCCUPATION W 
of this sort are distasteful but we are most anxious to get advertising. A11 ~^ . Ill i I _ _^Z^-. Tear out coupon ' » ** i f Tnen fold for 
advertising revenue is plowed back to improve the magazine and thus carefully along I Oleosa Fill Ou)^ / ' 'mailing as indicated doHfKl line< < a t -. -f t on revena sida 
redound to the prestige of our college. 1 11 Other Side of / / III This Coupon f 
We appeal to your loyalty to fill out the adjoining prepaid question­naire and send it to us today. 
iMy Future Plans for 1937: 
: •• • ^;> -v-Travel ' , 
1 am considering using ihe following travel lines and services: 
O Fraack U M . -O Cari«h>a Toim O PlniacI* ba D Haliai U w QJuw i Borigg D MayAewer HoMs n S*» rttliMtri D Ualv. Travel O Fleasait I. Lodg* O Sw. 'K* ly. • Farley Ageacy D Hotel Seyanar D CH. « H. W. Ry.a Join G. Hall Q Caa. PropeHies D AH. Coast »y. D Radolph Bnriaon ~ D f9m9n Taan . D Taniple Tours Q 
Airiiaas: I Am Considering Using J From— 
n *anricia Airiiaas D Pan American I To 
_ aiT HERE 
S B 

D «ar«p« n Powan S159 "Arouad America Tears" D Swadea n West Indies n California 
• Sa^iiartaiid n Florida n Pacific Northwest D So. AMca n New England D National Parks D Nassaa n Mexico D Yosemife D Bermuda Oregon Transcoaflneatal
nQ 

1Y SCORE IN THE QUIZ WAS 
FOLD BACK -— — -II 
0 
•a f eo ^ 73 
sw> iQs •• 
n a 2 
> -a 
O tm 
. —1 -1 ^«» 
m a *
>
o fO s 
7a (J J m 
o 
TO <• i».
Im
o — Tl 
c l< 
a 
a. 
> --fn _^ 2 
.» rr ^ 

-< cm 
o 
^r­°-f\ 
en 7 fO^ 
a^ o n
4 i^ 

SRI 1 5-< -<o -^ ---u ^ P 
? £-^ 
-i 
?°
^ 
•9

lllilillllllllll 
— — FOLD BACK 
' Private or Professional Schools 
Boys Professional
D NortkwoodD n Roabary' ' Q Amer. Aeadaaqr \D to of Draautic Arfsl
a waiistoB Girls 
D Acting, Directing' \

b 
D Sf. Aaae-s nTeachers' Summer 1 D ^ -Catfcariae's 
• -Course' • I

a 
a Wkealer O KafkaHaaGiblx 
Last Year I Bought 

\UTOMOilLE . 
NSUMNCE _ 
IBtlGatATOIt 
TFEW«ITa_ 
«AYH.TO_^ 
IIVATE SCHOOL. 
TO MAIL: learout fA) ' I Fold back top see-coupon carefully i Please Fill Out • tion. Fold back hot-along dotted lines. Other Side of I torn section. Insert Ope Slit B in top ' This Coupon '. tab A in slit '
open B section with knife i (Copyright 1937 I Mail without post­er sharp pencil. ' . .Pat. Applied 1 age. 
l.v-,.for) ,,v;.,} 

The Notre Dame Alunnnus 
among the speakers. The senior Mr. Foley is federal housing administrator for Michigan. 
IQ^R John Motan. 61 E. 93th St. Apt 2, *^"'° New York Oty. 
(We are delighted to present your new class secretary, the able and active Johnny Moran, of New York City. By his editing of the Scholastic and his numerous contributions to the ALUSINUS this year, John has proved his abilitj' and willingness. It's up to you other guys to help him—Eds.) 
Practically every alumnus within striking distance was on hand for the Notre Dame -N.Y.U. basketball game in Madison Square Garden. Need I say that the 52-26 score was a balm to me after seeing the first game in this series, when Notre Dame was on the short end of the score? 
At the game I bumped into Al Carey who is adding up figures with the firm of Touche-Ne\'in, C.P.A.'s, here in the city. With Al was Jim Sherry, who is doing his arithmetic in Tarrj-town, with the accounting de­partment of the Chevrolet plant. Jim i-eports that the recent G.M. "sit down" strike did not affect him. 
Jim states that Gene Tobin is work­ing for a C.P.A. firm in Chicago. Walt Matusevich sat with me during the game and we got quite a "kick" 
out. of Paul Nowak, Johnny Moir, and 

their trick shots. Walt is with Gibbs & Hill, consulting engineers, here in the city. 
After the game, Notre Dame cele­brated at Jim Ross' Tavern where a good crowd gathered to sign Jim's famous register. Johnny Odenbach reported that he is now taking ac­counting at Rochester U. With Marty Bayer, Odenbach had planned to travel upstate to see the N.D.-Cani­sius game the following Monday eve­ning. 
Charley Clark was on hand to deny that he had been married, as some­body claimed. Charley is working during the day and going to Fordham Law at night. Somebody volunteered the information that Nick Tancredi, who with Cy Conner staged the 
•svrestling match of the century at last year's Bengal Bouts, is now coaching at one of the Albany high schools. 
Johnny Hopkins, who starred in last year's N.Y.TJ.-N.D. game, was on hand with Hughie Devore. Johnny is still ^vith the Curb Exchange. Bill Gillespie, who formerly worked in the same place, is now with the Stock Ex­change. I met Bill in Madison Square Garden the week before during the running of the Melrose Games. Hav­ing a hankering to see Cunningham, Lash, et al at first hand, I managed to get into the ti-ack and met Joe McGrath, who was competing with the relay team from the Penn A.C. 
Joe did very well, picking up some 
substantial yardage in his baton-car­
rying attempt. McGrath reported 
that he is working for the Shell Oil 
Company back in Philly. 
To return to the N.D.-N.Y.U. 
game: I bumped into Joe Wade, the 
Jersey philosopher, while struggling 
to get out of the Garden. Joe is 
working for his dad back in Eliza­
beth. Julie Rocca, he informed me, 
is vdth the Standard Oil Co. in Bay­
onne, N. J. 
Seen around town during the eve­ning were Dusty Rhodes, Joe Wal­dron, Morgan Tuck, and several others. Morgan reports that he is working for Sam Eossoff, the sub­way builder who recently made the headlines of all N. Y. papers. As for the rest, I did not get a chance to speak with them, so I merely mention having glimpsed them in the crowd. 
So much for the alumni at the game. Biff Flannery was in to the In­ternal Eevenue office last week to get some income tax blanks. Biff reports that he is now working for the law firm of DeWitt, Van Aken & Nast, with offices in the Graybar Building, and going to the St. La-wrence Law School at night. Biff stated that Willie Shea is angling for a job as junior auditor with the Traveler's In­surance Co. Dan Hanrahan is at pres­ent located with, or is attempting to enter, the office of one of the larger insurance firms. 

Buddy Goldman called me up some time back to report that he is now employed by Universal News Service here in N. Y. Buddy claimed the dis­tinction of ha-ving the most broken-up working schedule ever pinned on a struggling young journalist, and I agreed with him. Incidentally, Maes­tro Goldman wants it known that he does his radio broadcasting over WINS at 2:15 Thursdays, and not on WMCA as reported in these pages some time back. 
Bob Cavanaugh wrote me recently from Washington, D. C. where he is working for the Federal Deposit In­surance Corporation, His address is 4450 Volta Place, Washington, D. C. 
Bob states that there are several boys from '36 and about 250 other Notre Dame men in town. Jess Haw­ley and Hugh Wall are rooming to­gether, but Hugh may leave for Okla­homa and a new job soon. John Ma­loney, George Murphy, and Frank Murphy are also in Washington, ac­cording to Cavanaugh. 
Well, that about clears up every­thing for this month. I'd like to make an appeal to all the members of the class of 1936 to communicate 
•with me and let me know what they are doing, in order that their acti-vi­ties may be recorded, as well as those in the New York district. I promise to answe r all communications as promptly as possible. Address me at 61 E. 95th St., New York City. 
vn. 
POST-GRADUATE QUIZ 
Mnswcrs to (Ac quiz on Page IV. 
front advertising section) 

1.
 Ellis Island. 

2.
 Calvin Coolidse, Governor of chusetts, in Boston, in 1919. 

3.
 Cuneiform writins. 

4.
 Tfie hard skeleton of certain polyps. 

5.
 The instalment plan. 


of 
 Massa­ marine 

6.
 Belladonna, or one of its derivatives. 

7.
 "Every day in every way, I'm getting better and better." 

8.
 The British soldier. 

9.
 (a) Massachusetts, (b) Ne w Hampshire, 


(c)Iowa, (d) California, (e) Kentucky. 

10.
 A pagan. 

11.
 Woodrow Wilson (1856-1924). 

12.
 Gilbert Keith Chesterton. 

13.
 To determine the desree of intelligence of the person tested. 

14.
 Pegasus. 

15.
 Old Dutch Cleanser. 


The broad highways of travel lead 
m^mmm^Mm 

« 
16.
 Clarence S. Darrow. 

17.
 Exempli gratia ("for example"). 

18.
 From fasces (in Roman history, a bundle of rods with an axe in the center, carried by a lictor as a sign of magisterial authority). 

19.
 The Bank of England. 

20.
 A wading bird of the heron family. 

21.
 Flax. 

22.
 Rustlers. 

23.
 f^e was President of Princeton Univer­sity from 1902 to 1910. 

24.
 A person or an organization that for hire undertakes the conveyance of goods or persons, inviting the employment of the public generally. 

25.
 Ivory Soap. 


NEWS-WEEK v/tfi nem: 
•
 Politics and strikes, dictators and th» threat ot war .. . these are the causes of today's questions—the questions NEWS­WEEK answers. 

•
 Accurate in its news lacts. clarifying in its presentation. NEWS-WEEK, the illus­trated news magazine. giTes you an intelli­gent understancUng of today's national and international events. 19 separate deport­ments and over 90 news-photographs each issue ensure the completeness of that un­derstanding. 

•
 NEWS-WEEK also takes pleasure in an­nouncing a' new feature— a page of pene­trating comment upon events of the week by Raymond Moley, former editor of Today and now editor of NEWS-WEEK. Thus NEWS-WEEK. recenUy merged with Today Magazine, brings you a new type of news magaune... concise* unbiased news of the tveek plus an expert opinion on that news. 

•
 For special half price introductory offer —20 weeks for SI—fill in the coupon on the opposite page. 


infalliUv to certain great cities and certain great events. The grandeur of a Coronation in London ... a brilliant International {exposition in Paris . . . e.\ert their attraction on experienced travelers and neopliytes alike. 
But afterwards, wlien llie captains and the Icings depart, and when you I have absorbed all that even a Paris Exposition can olier. you will be wise to leave the beaten track. To visit such ancient cities as Cahors and Moissac, Perigord and Angouleme 
I ' .. . to sleep in an inn 300 years old j (but well scrubbed and well provided I with succulent food and sound wine) 
I . . . brings you somehow near to the 
I living heart of France ... and to a bet­ter understanding.of the Gallic spirit. And. in a Breton or Norman seaport. 
To England and France direct. ILK DE FR.\NCE. .-Xpril 1. 2.J 

when the fishing fleet comes in and the wide-shouldered, keen-eyed sail­ors swing along Hie quay, you tender­
sz::^ 

stand more clearly the tradition of 
discipline and courage which has 
made possible the French Line fleet. 
This is a good year to go abroad. 
Exchange is ver>- favorable, and E-x­
position visitors benefit by special 
reductions (50% on railroad tickets, for example). Ask your Travel Agent for early reservations. 
«10 FIFTH AVENUE (ROCKEFELLER CEMTERX REW TORK UT T 
ami (Alls lo off Europet NoR.^I.^NDlE. April 14. a8 
• P.\RIS. May .) • l.AF.MrETTE. .•\pril 7 
FLY ANYWHERE IN EUROPE VIA AIR.FRANCE 
(Pleaie favor OHr advertisers when cheehins coupon facins ihis Pafe. Thanit you—The EcHtor.) 
vm. 
IN NATURE'S PATH 
A sood deal of what w e call invention is 
AROUND AMERICA 
imitation of nature. 

The aeroplane is a man-made bird. The ENTIRE submarine is a mechanical fish. The locomotive COST Xd 9 EXTRAS 
FACTORY 
has been called "The Iron Horse." 
TO YOU 
NEW REMINGTON NOISELESS PORTABLE 
'^MONEY SACK GUAI2ANTEE. 10-DAY FREE TRIAL OFFER 
A
T LAST! The famous Remington Noise­
^ less Portable that speaks in a whisper 
is available for only lOi^a day. Here is your 
opportunity to get a real Remington Noise­
less Portable direct from the lactory. 
Equipped with all attachments that make 
for complete writing equipment. Standard 
keyboard. Automatic ribbon reverse. Vari­
able line spacer and all the convenionces of 
the finest portable ever built. PLUS the 
NOISELESS feature. Act now while this 
special opportunity holds good. Send coupon 
TODAY for details. 
YOU DON'T RISK A PENNY 
•U'esendyou the Remington Noiseless Port­able direct from the factory with 10 days' FREE trial. If you are not satisfied, send it back. WE PAY ALL SHIPPING CHARGES. 
GREATEST TYPEWRITER 
BARGAIN IN 10 YEARS 
ImsRinc a machine that E<iuipped with all at-sneaks in awhisinT... tuchnit-nts that make tnat can hardly be for cumjilete writing heard ten ftet away. eqtiinment.theHeminH-You can write in a li­ton Noiseless I'oriablc brary, a sick room, a produci-s manifoldin;­I'uliman berth without and stencil cuttinj; of the sli^rhtcst fear of CTCeiition:U character. disturbmc others. And Kumishedin black with in adilttion to fiuictits Fliinint; chromium at­ftiperb performance tachments. Kind out literally makes the about this special offer words seem to flow without ohliKBtion from the machine. Mail coupon today! 
FREE TYPING COURSE 

With your Kew Remineton Koisdefs Portable we will Fcnd you—absolutely FJtKE—a ly-pace course in lyp­inp. It teaches the Touch System, u^ed by oil expert typists. It is simply •written and completely illustrateii. Instructions arc as simple as A. U, C Follow this course during the 10-Day Trial Period we (rive you with your tj'pewriter and you will womier why yoa ever took the trouble to write letters by hand. You w-iil be sur­prised how ca5y it is to learn to type on the ligbtning­fast Itcmington Noiseless i'ortablti 
FREE CARRYING CASE 
Also under this new Purchase Plan wc will send yoa FHEB with every Kemin^rton ^;ois*•le^•^ Portable a SIK­cial carrj-inp case sturdily built nf 3-iily wtHxi. This hand.-;ome case is covered with hcavj- I>u Pont fabric. The top is removed by one motion, lea^n'np the machine firmly attached to the haw. I'liia makes it ea.sy to u.«e your Itemincton anywiiere—on knf-i". in chairs, on trains. Don't delay... send in the coupon for complete details! 
SEND COUPON WHILE LOW PRICES HOLD 
Rcminfrton Rand Inc., Dept, ^17-4 
315 4th Avenue, New York, K. Y. 
Please (ell me how I can Rct a new ReminRton Noiseless 
Portable typewriter, plus FRHIi: Typinc Course and 
Carryinc Case, for only 10c a day. Also send me, with­
out o'blieation. nciv illostrated ea^o^c . 

Address. 
City 
So countless objects follow nature's pat­
terns, and in the matter of mechanical prin­
ciples there is little if anythins that we know 
which wise Old Mother Nature has not al­
ways practiced. 
What we admire in scientists and ensineers 
is, then, not so much their ability to create 
thinss essentially new, as their skill in search­
ing out old but hidden principles, and their 
remarkable insenuity in applying these prin­
ciples to new uses. 
There are very few more interesting ex­
amples of this skill and ingenuity than the 
modern automobile. 
And there are very few more skilful "imita­
tions of nature" than are represented in the 
many and varied functions performed by the 
thousands of parts that go to make up a 
modern motor car. 
There is the basic function of movement. 
Hence, wheels, and the gearing of power into 
the wheels. 
There is the function of changing direction 
of movement, and that of moving over various 
surfaces, on level ground, uphill and down­
hill. 

There is the necessary ability to itop move­ment. All these require such devices as steering apparatus, brakes and methods of controlling power and speed. 
Then there is the function of carrying 

passengers, and this involves supplementary 
functions. 
One of them is to provide comfort for the passengers .. . to minimize the shocks of travel which would otherwise result. 
No w nature, too, has had the problem of producing shockless movement. In the human body, for example, many devices are utilized toward this end. 
First, there is the soft padding of the soles of the feet — the cunning arrangement of the foot arches — the manner in which the ankle is constructed. Next, comes that important factor — the structure of the knee. The easing of shock is also served in the fitting of the spine to hip bones, and thence to the legs; in the miraculously efficient spinal column itself with its cushioning pads of cartilage between the vertebrae; in the manner of balancing our heads on our spines; and finally, the muscles and tendons employed as an elaborate system of springs and shock-absorbers. 
Now see how automobile construction parallels nature's plan. The "foot-paddings" of our cars are their tires. The counterpart of the foot arches are the springs between axles and frame. The self-adjusting nature of the ankle is imitated in the universal joint. Rub­ber cushioning serves purposes similar to the cartilage pads between vertebrae. Shock ab­sorbers have restraining effects like those of muscles and tendons. 
Only one major item of nature's provisions is omitted from this list . . . that important structural joint we call the knee. And in certain cars, even this is presentin the properly-named " Knee-Action." 
And so w e have a partial glimpse of auto­mobiles as "imitations of nature." Only par­tial, of course, for cars must "eat," and cars must "breathe." Cars must "speak" the warn­ing of their approach. Cars must "see" where they are going. And stripped down to basic principles, the devices for accomplishing these purposes are surprisingly like the methods of nature itself. The more we succeed in parallel­ing nature's methods, the better the car — the more efficiently it performs the functions for which we prize it. 
In the automobile .. . as in all matters of mechanics . . . the job of the engineer is not so much to blaze new trails as to find his way . . . with the trained eye of the frontier scout . . . along the oaths of nature. 
tincran* includes PanAmericar 
California's Snnta Monica 
Exposition Bift Trees Santa Cruz San Antonio Hollywood San Francisco lid Mexico Riverside Portland 
.i»s Anjlclcs Seattle l^asadcna Vancou%-er 
Steamer trip on Pacific Ocean 
Canadian Rockies — Banff and Lake Louise 
Round Trip Rail Ticket — All meals — Hotel? 
— Pullman Sifilitseeinn — Handlins baj;Kaf;e 
Oi'cr 2000 cnjaycd this marrcJous vacation bargain last summer 
Parties leave Chicafto. Detroit and Sr» Louis June 20—July 4 —July 18 — Aujjust I — Aujlust 15 
Reduction on tins trip for parties of five or more — ask for otKanizers' plan 
OTHER ATTRACTIVE TOURS 
Leavini: weekly to ALASKA —S219 . . . VELLOWSTO.VE ­$139 . . . PACIFIC NORTHWEST—S1.W , . . EUROPE —$267 . . . MONTREAL & QUEBEC —$69 . . . SEA BREEZE —$I.W rail and ocean trip to New York and New Orleans . . . COLONIAL AMERICA —$99 including. Thousand Islands. Montreal. Quebec, Maine .seacoast, Boston, New York 
Write for descriptive pamphlets 
POWERS TOURS 
111 WEST WASHINGTON ST., CHICAGO 
('Iticitiio'-^ lilil rfliiil'lf Iritvet «n,v«0' 

ARE YOU "GOING PLACES"? 
Then do not Fall to patronize the Travel 
Advertisers wh o patronize 
this magazine — 

American Airlines, Inc. Atlantic Coast Line Railway James Boring Co. Bureau of University Travel Canadian Resort Properties Chicago a Northwestern Railway Carleton Tours Farley Travel Agency French Line John G. Hall & Co. Mayflower Hotels Mothersills Seasick Remedy Nassau Development Board Oregon State Highway Commission Pinnacle Inn Pleasant Island Lodge Powers "Around America" Tours Rudolph Travel Bureau Hotel Seymour Southern Pacific Railway Sita Freighter Voyages South African Railways Swedish Travel Information Bureau Swiss Federal Railroads Temple Tours 
For handsome illustrated booklets describing these trips, check coupon facing Page VII. They will be sent free — no obligation at all. 
GRADUATE TRAVEL SERVICE 
30 Rockefeller Plaza 
New York City 

(Please favor our advertisers when checking coupon facing Page VII. Thank you — The Editor.) 










