The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
I'll 
o i; 
n t .- ;-. 
-'' i I • n T' ;5 T' Y 

c\\' w5o^. 
CL­

THE NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
BERNARD J. VOLL, Ph.B., '17 South Bend, Indiana President of the Alumni Association 
OCTOBER, 1935 

THOUSANDS of years ago, a skin-clad workman pounded away witli a cobblestone on a slab of hard rode In a few years, that slab might be passably square and smooth. 
Today, busy machines, supervised by trained workmen, pare off crisp, curling ribbons from whirling blocks of steel, as one would unwind ribbon from a spool, shaping the metal to a thousand purposes—^to an accuracy within a few ten-thousandths of an inch. 
CARBOLOY— a modern tool material developed by General Electric research —^has made possible this speed, this precision. It cuts materials hitherto unworkable—cuts faster and holds its edge longer than steel tools — can be run at red heat without losing its temper. 
CARBOLOY is only one of the contributions made to improved industrial processes by G-E research—research that has saved the public from ten to one hundred doUars for every doUar earned for General Electric 


GENERAL A ELECTRIC 
^^^8 
.,.. 
• "i 
A/ 
SPECIAL LOW ROOM 



/V847 

RATES. A CORDIAL WELCOME y t ^ AND EVERY CONCEIVABLE FACILITY. COURTESY AND SERVICE ARE AVAILABLE TO 


"^ 123475 

Notre Dame Alumni, Student Body and Faculty 
ONE OF CHICAGO'S VERY NEWEST. VERY FINEST HOTELS 
"As Modern As Tomorrow" 
450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully furnished and each equipped with bath and shower combination, Servidor, circulating ice water and every other convenience for your comfort. 

THREE COLORFUL RESTAURANTS 
INCLUDING POPULAR-PRICED COFFEE SHOP. 
TEN PRIVATE DINING ROOMS and BALLROOMS 
With capacities of from ten to twelve hundred-persons and providing for dances, dinner-dances, banquets, suppers, meetings and social affairs of 
Be sure to 

every description, at low prices. 
see our new 

All lobbies, restaurants, ballrooms and 
NOTRE DAME 

private dining rooms are air-conditioned 


ROOM 

or equipped with cross ventilation. 
HOTEL KNICKERBOCKER 
Walton Place Just East of Michigan Boulevard 

CHICAGO 

ALLAN a HURST 
Manager 

Success Lives 


By Repetition 
o 
NE robin doesn't make a spring — one viCTory doesn't make an All-American 
team. It's constant performance that builds reputation. 
In catering to thousands of patrons every year. HOTEL MCALPIN has learned every phase of perfect service. Daily training has equipped the MCALPIN staff to anticipate the whims and fancies of our guests .. . to cope with every situation .. . to satisfy every guest 100%. 
Here at HOTEL MCALPIN, one enjoys the comfort of LARGE, luxurious rooms, cheerfully decorated . . . immaculate. There isn't another hotel in New York which can boast of a more convenient location. Nor will one find better food anywhere than is served in HOTEL MCALPIN. AS for service, you'll discover a friendliness, a courtesy and a genuine interest in your welfare at the MCALPIN which has won and held the loyalty of thousands of guests. 
If and when you come to New York, just wire, write or phone for a reservation— and let us convince you that you can enjoy a maximum of comfort at a minimum of expense — at HOTEL MCALPIN. 
JOHN J. WOELFLE, Manager. 
Rooms with Bath fi'om 

$1.50 $AM $4.50 
w per day "per day ~per day 
Single Double Twin-bedded 
HOTEL McALPIN 
Broadway at 3 4th Street 
NEW YORK 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, ^25 Editor  The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the Umversib* of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include  Member of the American Alumni Council.  
WiLUAM R. DOOLEY.Managing Editor   7 6  a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post oflice at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind.  Member of Nat'l. Catholic Alumni Federation.  
Vol. XIV.  October, 1935  No.  

CHANGED CAMPUS WELCOMES STUDENTS AS 94tli YEAR STARTS 
Concrete Sidewalks Laid; Part of Street Car Line and Roads Torn Up; Postoffice Moved; Addition Built to Howard Hall Chapel; Infirmary Construction Prosresses. 
A changed and changing campus welcomed a substantially increased student body of approximately 2,700 
•students when they returned to Notre Dame in late September for the open­ing of the University's ninety-fourth year. 
That section of the old Dore road from the Dining Hall east to Notre Dame Avenue had been torn out by a relentless steam shovel, trees had been taken up along the road and all through the new southern end of the campus long, broad concrete walks, crossing and inter-crossing, had been laid and were being laid, preparatory to the actual landscaping already planned. 
Even the Notre Dame car line (or the Hill Street car line, if you will) had lost out in the changing scheme of things. No more did the old puddle-jumper uncertainly skid up almost to the old postoffice. Instead it stopped modestly just short of the new law building at the southernmost end of the campus. And workmen were tear­ing out the tracks and the ties of the unneeded section of roadbed at the end of the line. The adjoining sec­tion of concrete at the northern end of Notre Dame Avenue had already disappeared. 
The Summer just past had seen the moving of the old postoffice from its traditional spot at the end of the car line to a new site just north of Chem­istry Hall. There, connected with the Hall, it is being used as a much-needed library for the Department of Chemistry and, in particular, for the extensive book collections of Father Nieuwland. 
Under the direction of Contractor Tom Hickey, the new infirmary was rising fast back of the Main Building. Electricians were at work in the same Main Building installing new -wiring and, alongside them, were plasterers and painters doing extensive repair work. 
Over in Howard Hall an addition to the south chapel was nearing com­pletion after a couple of months of construction. The forme r north chapel is to be converted into student residence rooms. 
It was indeed a changed and chang­ing campus that the returning stu­dents found. And yet it's always the same Notre Dame. 
The halls and many of the rectors, for instance. In historic Sorin, the genial Father John Parley is still rector and Father Charles Doremus and Father Edwin J. Schneider, S.S., are prefects. 
Father George Marr continues his magnificent influence as rector of Walsh and Father Raymond Murray, Father Cornelius Hooyboer and the new Professor James Corbett are the prefects. 
Father Ed Keller is the new rector of Howard Hall and with him as pre­fects are Father Peter Forrestal, Father Charles M. Over, Professor Frank O'Malley and Professor Jolm Whitman as prefects. 
Father John Eyan has transferred his rectorship from Lyons to Corby and ynth him in the latter hall are Father Dennis O'Shea and Professor Ed Coomes as prefects. 
Alumni Hall has Father Henry Glueckert, last year in Howard, as rector (succeeding Father Tom Mc-Avoy who is in Washington, D.C., for special study) and the following as prefects: Father James Stack and Father Peter Hebert. 
Father Joseph Muckenthaler con­tinues as rector of Badin and Father Tom Brennan and Father William Carey are the prefects. 
Father George Holderith likewise continues as rector of Morrissey with Father Jame s McDonald, Father Philip Moore and Acting Dean T. Boyer Campbell as prefects. 
Father Tom Kelly, back from a year of study, is the new rector of Lyons and Father John Kelly, Father James Quinlan and Father Eugene C. Moriarty are the prefects. 
In St. Edward's Father John Rey­nolds succeeds himself as rector with Father Joseph Luttman, Father Mc­Clellan and Brother Prosper as pre­fects. 
Father Maurice Eigley is the new rector of Freshman Hall and Father George Welsh the prefect. 
In Dillon Hall Father James Fog-arty is the new governor and his lieu­tenants are Father Norbert Hoff, Father Fran k Cavanaugh, Father AVilliam McNamara, Professor Tom Madden and Professor Ed Kenefake. 
The traditional Brownson again has Brother Justin as rector with Brother Alojrsius, Brother Severin and Brother Albert as prefects. 
Brother Maurilius likewise contin­ues as rector of Carroll Hall with Brother Columbanus, Brother Lean­der and Brother Idelphonse as pre­fects. 
Among the new important new ap­pointments is that which assigns Father Matthew Walsh, former presi­dent of the University, to the newly­
(Contlnued on Page 13) 

These are the new lay members of the faculty. Left to right. Soger Knittel, James Corbett, F. N. M. Brown and Christopher Hollis. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1935 
SUMMER BRINGS ALUMNI 

DR. FRANCIS J. POWERS, '94, DIES; 
FOR CAMPUS VISITS 

UNIVERSITY PHYSICIAN FOR 25 YEARS 
One of Notre Dame's most devoted servants through two scores of years, Dr. Francis J. Powers, died in St. Joseph hospital, South Bend, on Sept. 17, just as hundreds of students were returning for the first day of regis­tration. He had recently suffered a stroke of paralysis. 
Dr. Powers, a traditional campus figure for generations of students, ha d been attending physician at Notre Dame continuously since 1910, when he returned to South Bend after a year in Florida where he studied typhoid fever and tropical diseases. 
He received from the University the degrees of bachelor of science in 1894 and of master of science in 1899. From 1894 until 1904 he was an in­structor in the College of Science, teaching botany, zoology and physi­ology. 
In 1904 he entered the School of Medicine of Northwestern university, and made a brilliant record as a stu­dent there. After graduation he served an intemeship at Mercy hos­pital in Chicago and worked as an assistant to the late Dr. John B. Murphy, world famous surgeon. 
Dr. Powers was regarded by his fellow practitioners as an outstanding physician and as an authoritj' on diseases of the lungs and other chest complications. 

After his return to Notre Dame in 1910 Dr. Powers taught biologj' and physiology for a few years until his duties as physician forced him to abandon class work and devote his time to student welfare. 
He was carrying the entire burden of work at Notre Dame in 1934 when Dr. James E. McMeel, of South Bend, was selected as an associate physician to relieve Dr. Powers or some of his duties. Dr. McMeel assisted with general student sickness and attended the football teams during all games. 
Of Dr. Power's work at the univ­ersity Sister Gerard, C. S. C, an attending nurse at the student in­firmary for a number of years, said: 

"The record of student health at Notre Dame is sufficient testimonial to the work of Dr. Powers. His one fault was his conscientiousness. When students became seriously ill. Dr. Powers would frequently spend the entire night in attendance either here or at St. Joseph hospital in South Bend." 
Dr. McMeel pointed out that Dr. Powers' chief ambition during recent years had been to super\'ise arrange­ments in the new student infirmary, construction of which began last June and which is now well on the way to completion. 
Dr. Powers, in failing health for several years, recently sold his home at 1326 East Wayne street, South Bend. He and his wife planned to move into a small apartment in the autumn. 
The body was laid to rest on Sept. 
20, after solemn requiem Mass in 
Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
The Mass was sung by Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University, and burial was in Cedar Grove cemetery, in sight of the Uni­versity Dr. Powers served so long. 
Father O'Hara was assisted in the funeral rites by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., Vice President of the Univer­sity, as deacon; Rev. Francis J. Bo-land, C.S.C, sub-deacon, and Rev. F. 
J. Wenninger, C.S.C, master of cere­monies. The sermon was preached by Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C, a life-long friend of Dr. Powers. 
Pallbearers were Dr. Harry Boyd-Snee, of South Bend; Dr. J. E. Mc­Meel, assistant to Dr. Powers; Dr. Edwin Ryan, of Chicago, and Profes­sors Francis X. Ackerman, W. L. Benitz and E. J. Maurus, all of the University. Mass was chanted by the Moreau Seminary choir. 
John Mischker Dies 
John F. Mischker, aged 60, for 30 years the kindly director of the tailor shop on the campus, died in St. Jos­eph's hospital. South Bend, on Sept. 16, after a four weeks' illness with diabetes. He is survived by his wife, one son, two daughters, a brother and two sisters. 
Until recent years Mr. Mischker, in his shop above the candy store, handled much of the students' tailor work as well as the Order's work. The construction of a new laundry and cleaning plant on the campus, re­lieved him of much of the student work, but the shop over which he pre­sided remained one of the busiest spots at Notre Dame. The man who headed it ^vill be greatly missed by hundreds of returning alumni. 
Gipp's Mother Dies 
Death came on September 9, in Calumet, Mich., to claim Mrs. Mat­thew Gipp, aged 77, mother of Notre Dame's immortal football hero. 
A month before Mrs. Gipp went to Laurium, Mich., where she saw dedi­cated a community park in honor of her famous son who died in 1920. At that dedication were many of the great and near-great in gridiron circles, together with Notre Dame representatives and friends of the football star. 
The Summer brought scores of alumni visitors to the campus. Many of them, of course, especially at the time of the Lay Retreat, didn't get to the Alumni Office to get registered in black and white or didn't happen un­der the eye of the staft sleuths. We were able to record the presence of the following: 
Jim Martin, '23, Chicago; Charlie Grimes, '20, Providence, Rhode Island; Bob Capesius, '28, Charleston, West Virginia; Joh n McLaughlin, '34, Providence, Rhods Island; Bill O'Neill, '28, Cleveland; Tom Owens, '22, now living at 1311 48th Court, Cicero, 111.; Bill Heineman, '29, Connersville, In­diana; Henry Bums, '29, Buffalo, New York. 
Frank Heupel, '29, Auburn, Indi­ana; John McLaughlin, '10, Alton, Illinois, whose son is at Notre Dame this year; John Ryan, '24, Canton, Pennsylvania; Bill Kelleher, '15, Lor­ain, Ohio, with Grover Malone, '20, South Bend; Al Picks, '23, -with Mrs. Ficks and their tvvo daughters, Scars-dale, New York; Jim Logan, '18, Denver, \vith Bemie Voll, '17, South Bend, and Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend. 
Charlie McCauley, '19, New York City, ^vith Paul Fenlon, '19, Notre Dame; Dick Neeson, '30, Louisville; Harry Zolper, '04, Rapid City, South Dakota, on first visit to campus since graduation; Eli Leonelli, '29, \vith Mrs. Leonelli, Youngstown, Ohio; Joe Sweeny, '27, and his mother, Cleve­land. 
John O'Phelan, '04, Raymond, Washington, state deputy. Knights of Columbus, on way to national K. of 
C. convention, New York City; Henry Frawley, '14, with Mrs. Frawley, Deadwood, South Dak.; John Camp­bell, '26, Albany, New York, with brother. Professor Dave Campbell, '29, Notre Dame; John Connolly, '32, Toledo; Leo Mclntyre, '28, Bethle­hem, Pa., with brother and two pros-' pective students; Frank Hayes, '14, Anaheim, California. 
Pat Canny, '28, Cleveland; Joe Hartnett, '29, New Rochelle, New York; Jack Kane, '25, YoungstowTi, Ohio; Tom Cannon, '33, Muncie, Ind., and Frank Sweeney, '17, Cincinnati. 
McCarthy on Board 
The election of James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce, to be a director of the First Bank and Trust Company, South Bend, was an­nounced in the early Summer. Other Notre Dame men on the Board are Max Adier, E. M. Morris, president of the bank, and Bernard J. Voll, president of the Alumni Association. 

October, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


CATHOLIC SCHOOLS NEED RESEARCH, PRODUCTIVE SCHOLARSHIP 
By REV. PHILIP S. MOORE. CS.C. 
Head of the Institute of Medieval Studies at the University of Notre Dame. 
Graduates of the Summer Session of 1935: Every year thousands of young men and young women finish their college or their university train­ing. On the day of their Commence­ment the great majority of these graduates have yet to win their places in the many and varied business and professional fields to which they have been looking forward. The commence­ment speaker, therefore, very fittingly pictures for them these various fields as they appear to him at the moment, the possible places therein for those who are receiving their academic de­grees, the things to be done that the winning of those places be assured, the things to be avoided that the chances of failure may be reduced to a minimum, the virtues of courage and perseverance which each gradu­ate will no doubt be called upon to exercise in the attainment of his goal, the contribution which college and university men and women should make to the society of which they are to become active members. 
Tonight you of the graduating class of the Notre Dame Summer Session of 1935 join the ranks of these gradu­ates. You come to a terminus in your academic training. Some of you have just received the bachelor's de­gree—^your years in college are over;­others have advanced a step higher up the educational ladder and are now masters of your art or science; and finally, a few of you have climbed to the summit of academic achieve­ment and hold in your hands the degree of doctor of philosophy. 
Two striking differences, however, distinguish the far greater number of you from the graduates who ordin­arily leave our colleges and universi­ties. First, most of you have already your places in society; and secondly, the places which you fill are in one professional field—that of education, most of you being engaged in the in­struction of youth. And since the majority of you are not looking for­ward to positions in the various busi­ness or professional fields, I need not speak to you of the opportunities for men and women with college training nor of the pitfalls to be avoided if advantages is to be taken of those opportunities. Since most of you, are engaged in the work of education, I address you briefly on what I believe to be the most important actual need iin Catholic education — the need of developing research and productive scholarship in our Catholic univer­sities. 
(Editor's Note: The ALUMNUS is privileged to present in its first issue of the neiv year the text of an excel­lent address delivered by Father Moore at the Summer School Com­mencement on Jjily 30. As head of the Institute of Medieval Studies at Notre Dame he is particularly well qualified to discuss what he considers the most urgent need in Catholic edu­cation of the present. /iLUMNUS readers will find his address both in­teresting and stimulating.) 
Mankind has been slowly and labor­iously acquiring a store of natural knowledge over a period of several thousand years. Truths searched out, discovered, and established by one generation of men have become the heritage of all subsequent genera­tions. This is well, but in the enjoy­ment of the fruits of others' labor we must not forget that we in our turn have a sacred obligation to advance intellectual frontiers, search out, dis­cover, and establish new truths—or where there is need, rediscover and reestablish old truths—so that the people who succeed us may be intel­lectually richer than we are, just as we are intellectually richer than were our immediate ancestors. 
Today the university is par excel­lence the institution through which the store of acquired knowledge is preserved and transmitted to succeed­ing generations. This is its first func­tion. The university should also lead the way in searching out, discovering, and establishing new truths and in rediscovering and reestablishing old truths which have been lost. This is its second fimction, quite as import­ant as its first function. 
For the performance of this two­fold function in regard to human knowledge, the modem university has evolved within itself two schools—the underjiraduate school and the (jradu­uate school. The primary purpose of the undergraduate school is to impart acquired knowledge. The graduate school is for advanced or superior education, and its primary function is to search out, discover, and establish new truths and to rediscover and re­establish old truths. In other words the primary concern of the under­graduate school is to teach students the accumulated truths which are his intellectual heritage, whereas the pri­mary concern of the graduate school is to initiate students into methods of research and to direct them in their search for new truth still un­discovered and for old truths which have been lost. 
Thus far all of our Catholic educa­tional institutions have devoted their efforts almost exclusively toward the preservation and transmission of ac­quired knowledge. The have engaged very little in the search for new truth. They have not carried on any very extensive research projects, and hence their productive scholarships, that is the scholarship which con­tributes new knowledge, has been very limited. To put it in another way, as did a prominent Catholic edu­cator during the past year, the devel­opment of our graduate schools has not kept pace with the development of our primary and secondary school systems. 
I am not criticizing adversely what has been done. It has been logical and natural that our attention be given first to the imparting of knowledge. Circumstances and special difficulties, with which you are all fairly well acquainted, have made it almost im­possible for us to do more. And in view of these circumstances anad dif­ficulties we can all be justly proud of the fine things which have been achieved. But the fact is that real graduate education, with its research and productive scholarship, has re­mained comparatively undeveloped in our Catholic universities. The need of developing this research and pro­ductive scholarship is the most im­portant actual need in Catholic educa­tion. 
Why, it may be asked, is this need so important — eve n imperative? There are several reasons. First, our Catholic universities share with other universities the obligation of leading the way in the search for new truth and in the recovery of old truth, which will further enlarge our human science. And, therefore, it is import­ant that our Catholic universities ful­fill this obligation. 
A second and more practical reason is the fact that in the United States today the highest academic standing in recognized only for those universi­ties in which there are research and productive scholarship of considerable quantity and excellent quality. And if our Catholic imiversities—or at least a proportionate representation of them—are to take their places among the universities of highest academic standing, we must develop 
October, 1935 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
in them more and better research and productive scholarship. And it is im­perative that at least some of our Catholic universities achieve this highest academic standing and recog­nition. 
A third reason, which I consider the most important of all, should ap­peal to all Catholic educators. Re­search an d productive scholarship bring a prestige and leadership which nothing else can bring. In every field of learning, the leaders, the men who are influencing the thought of others, are the men who are not satisfied merely ^vith what is already known but who are blazing new trails into unexplored territory. Now, it is very important that there be a great many Catholic scholars among these lead­ers. This is true in every branch of knowledge. It seems to me especially important that Catholic leaders, who by their productive scholarship have become recognized authorities, be numerous in those fields wherein the knowledge is bound up with Catholic tradition and culture. Such Catholic leaders of thought are not nearly so numerous as they should be in Amer­ica. In the special fields to which I have just referred the leadership rests with those outside the Church but no matter how excellent those gentlemen may be, they are not fully qualified to understand and appre­ciate the truths they discover. Yes, we are allowing those not of the faith to conduct nearly all of the investiga­tions of Catholic tradition and cul­ture, in history, in literature, in law-, in archeology, and even in liturgy and in philosophy, whilst we for the most part stand by as mere onlookers. And what is true in these fields, is pretty true generally. The consequence is that Catholic scholarship has not nearly the influence it should have on the American civilization and culture of today. In Europe, on the other hand. Catholic scholarship is making its influence felt, because Catholic scholars, by their researches and their productive work, are leading the way in almost every art and science. 
From what I have just said, I do not mean to imply that scholarship and the search for human truth should be primarily apologetic. No, in seeking truth we must be disinter­ested. But our scholarship can and should have a secondary apologetic value. 
Having seen the more important reasons for more and better research and productive scholarship in Cath­olic education, we may vfell ask what is to be done to supply this need. Two things to be done are rather obvious. The first is the preparation of more students for research scholarship. These students should be sent to cen­ters of learning, at home and abroad, for the best training in particular arts or sciences. Their period of train­
ing should be measured not in terms of years or credit hours but in terms of complete formation. The best pol­icy is to place such students under the direction of the most eminent professors available in each field of learning and leave them there until those professors are satisfied that their formation is complete, that they are ready to continue their work alone and to direct the work of oth­ers. This graduate training, needless to say, must not be a mere continua­tion of undergraduate schooling. It must acquaint the student with the methods and means of research. It must, furthermore, give him a vision of productive scholarship which, once seen, ivill make him forever dissatis­fied with merely studying and teach­ing what others have discovered for him, with merely learning and im­parting what is .already known. 
It is not enough, however, that we have scholars adequately trained for research scholarship. We must pro­vide for these scholars the time and the facilities for research investiga­tions. Without this provision the best-trained students will be unable to dis­cover and establish new truths. 
These first t\vo means toward the development of research and produc­tive scholarship are immediately and directly ordered to the end to be accomplished. They are, therefore, the concern of those charged with the administration of the graduate schools of our universities. There is a third means to this same end which is the concern of everyone in Catholic edu­cation, whether or not he be in a position to engage personally in re­search or to take part in graduate instruction or administration, because it is nothing other than the arousing of a real and vital interest in re­search scholarship among Catholic educators. 
How can the creation of such in­terest be a means to the development of research and productive scholar­ship in our universities? First, it would lead to a better imderstanding of such scholarship and to the convic­tion that the need of it in Catholic education is a very serious one. From this better understanding and convic­tion should result that every teacher be on the alert to discover students with an aptitude for advanced train­ing and be able to give them a cor­rect idea of what this training is and intelligent direction toward it, as preparation for their later graduate study. I have said that -we must train a larger number of scholars for re­search work. This would seem to be a simple matter, but it is not, because most students begin graduate work with little or no idea of what research scholarship really is. And at this late period in their formation it is no easy matter to give them this idea. Worse still, they often have false ideas about advanced scholarship, which are hard to correct. The result is that not more than one out of ten students who have had the advantage of complete gradu­ate training, becomes a research scholar, that is a scholar who has a passion for productive scholarship. A vital interest in this matter among Catholic educators generally would, I believe, help much to improve this condition, because it would assure us in the future students much better prepared for advanced study than we now have. 
This interest might also be of help in the betterment of our graduate instruction itself, which, is not always what it should be. It is all very well that in graduate courses the teachers give the students the fruits of their o^vn investigations of a problem or even fill their notebooks ^vith facts already avaUable in print. This im­parting of the results of previous re­search, whether it be one's own or that of others, is, it is true, an essen­tial part of graduate instruction, but the graduate teacher must go much further than that. He must thorough­ly drill his students in the research methods proper to his field; he must teach the student how to attack new-problems; he must acquaint him with the tools—the instruments de travail the French call them—with which he is to work, and lastly he must com­municate to his students an enthus­iasm for productive work, he must in­spire them with an ideal or vision of productive scholarship so that they will count as lost the day on which they have not made some progress into the region of truth yet undiscov­ered. And when a teacher in the graduate school fails to teach his stu­dents the research methods of his art or science, or when he fails to inspire them with a vision of productive scholarship, he has in large part failed of graduate instruction. 
Finally, one other way in which this interest in research scholarship among all Catholic educators may be of help. Research scholarship most often does not pay for itself. No mat­ter how valuable it may eventually be for the cultural, and even the ma­terial, advancement of the race, it is not immediately appreciated. It has no market value. It has no box-office attraction. Its published volumes , however much of new truth they may contain, do not ordinarily become "best sellers." Hence, research proj­ects must be endowed, and the lack of such endowments is one of the chief reasons why research scholarship has not developed in Catholic universities. But if Catholic educators become zeal­ous in the cause of research and pro­ductive scholarship, we shall perhaps be able to interest in this cause an ever-greater number of Catholic and even non-Catholic men and women of 
(Continued on Pa ^ 14) 

October, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 

THE PRESIDENT'S LETTER 
Not "Just Another Year" 
To the Association: 

We are launching, practically, another Associa­tion year. 
The ALUMNUS, bringing the one contact be­tween Notre Dame and all Notre Dame graduates, makes this possible. But by the same token, we have lost, to some extent, almost a quarter of our actual fiscal year, between the June and October issues. Therefore the pushing of our program during these ensuing nine months is imperative in the face of this handicap. 
I do not intend that this shall be 'just another 
year." 

We are not groping for a way. We are not lack­
ing in objectives. We are not endowed with prob­
lems of heterogeneous membership. We are not a 
new organization. We are not working for a new 
and untried cause. 

We are beginning another link in a chain of 
alumni loyalty that was first forged for the Silver 
Jubilee of 1869. 

And we are inspired by the same motive—the 
love and admiration for Notre Dame—that was even 
then matured by 27 years of effort and guidance on 
the part of Father Sorin. 

Development of the Greater Notre Dame, so familiar now to us and to the world, has brought corresponding growth to us. Not only in numbers, but in responsibilities, in privileges, and in prestige. 
We are no longer the small, loyal, happy band that gathered once a year in the Old Refectory for a more or less social expression of sentiment, albeit sincere. 
We are a numerous, though scattered, group, wielding great potential power. 
To utilize it properly, for mutual benefits, remembering our purposes and our limitations, is the constant problem confronting this, as every preceding, administration of the Association. 
I have inherited, as President, certain mechanical aids to an effective alumni program. But I am com­pletely aware that the success of these agencies lies entirely in the men in whose hands they rest, and of the men who comprise the great majority of our members, who follow the programs these agents present. 
The District Governors represent a small but comprehensive group of men, organized to familiar­ize the Districts with the possibilities and the prob­lems of the Association, and in turn to present to the Alumni Board a localized, accurate picture of the several Districts. It is my hope, as I have already expressed it to the Governors, that they will play a prominent part this year in every project of the Association. 
Next to the Governors in immediate possibilities for activity are the Clubs. For the most part a Club reflects the activities of its officers. Therefore, I have charged the Club ofBcers this year with the responsibility of local leadership that will be trans­lated through their cooperation into a picture of national progress for the Association. Obligation of the members generally is obvious. 
Powerful in preserving the personal ties that keep Notre Dame men united ^vith each other as well as with Notre Dame are the Classes. I am asking the Class Secretaries to work this year for comprehensive representation of their fellows in the personal columns of the ALUMNUS. 
In addition to the work of these agencies offi­cially, and the personnel which directs them, you and I know that much of Notre Dame's success and glory of our alumni has been derived from the individual Notre Dame man, frequently standing against a world alone. So I am superimposing over my approach to our auxiliaries, a charge upon you individually, to keep up the good fight that is so rich a part of our heritage and so splendid a page in our history. Follow your leaders on the one hand, but on the other, when opportunity arises, lead your own group in the various ways of our progress. 
I would be breaking our unhappiest tradition if I did not somewhere in this message to you mention money. 
You are familiar with our experience of the last few years. You know how the University has gen­erously advanced us some $15,000 and more to enable us to proceed ^vithout sacrifice along the path that has undoubtedly been leading us in the right direction. 
Notre Dame has not hesitated over this sacrifice or expressed either regret or concern. 
I cannot be so passive. I believe that, recognizing all of the handicaps of our members—financial reverses still common and still serious, family obli­gations, distance, carelessness, grievances, and so on —we are numerous enough to pay our own way in full, with the existing dues of five dollars annually. 
With this in mind, I have asked all your officers, and here ask you individually, to work this year for a doubling of last year's dues. This amount, approxi­mately $12,000, would pay our costs—the ALUM­NUS, the services and personnel of the Alumni Office, Club and Class program maintenance, and the increasingly frequent and important individual services to alumni the Office is called upon to render. 
Our record in every other field of our activity is one of which we can be proud. Let's round it out as a matter of independence and our self-respect as an Association. 
One thing I particularly wish to avoid. That is the loss of any of the enthusiasm, any of the con­crete support, any of the outstanding activities of the Clubs, any of the remarkable cooperation that has met the Association's program for contacting students for the University, or any single Notre Dame Man's interest. 
If I have conveyed to you what is in my mind and the minds of your Directors, there will be no such loss. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, '17. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

DEATH TAKES BROTHER CYPRIAN, C.S.C. TEACHER OF ACCOUNTING, WASHINGTON HALL HEAD 
Brother Cyprian, C.S.C, the be­loved "Cyp," aged 78, for 3G years a teacher at Notre Dame and for 40 years director of backstage operations in Washington Hall, died on July 29 in the Community infirmary. 
Brother Cyprian had not taught for the last four years because of partial paralysis caused by three successive heart attacks which forced his retire­ment in 1931. Since that time he had busied himself at the job he had held since 1895—^that of director of back­stage operations in Washington Hall. 

Thousands of Notre Dame men learned methods of bookkeeping and accounting from the Brother and in several instances he taught two gen­erations of the same family. Though he taught what was generally con­sidered one of the "toughest" courses in the University, Brother was uni­versally admired and loved by his students. Each alumni reunion saw a large group of his "boys" seeking him. Whenever a campus representa­tive met with N. D. men anyivhere in the country almost the first man 
asked about was Brother "Cyp." 
As chairman of the executive com­mittee of the former Philopatrians and as Washington Hall executive. Brother Cyprian came into close con­tact with many distinguished men. Among his personal friends were for­mer President William Howard Taft, Alfred E. Smith, William Jennings Bryan, AVilliam Gibbs McAdoo, Eam­on De Valera, and a number of papal delegates. 
Brother Cyprian — James O'Hara before he joined the Congregation of the Holy Cross—^was bom in Coving­ton, Kentucky, Nov. 2, 1857. He was professed July 22, 1883, and received the habit of the order Feb. 16, 1879. 
In 1895 he came to Notre Dame as associate professor of accounting. While preparing for his 37th consecu­tive year of teaching in 1931 he suf­fered a heart attack and was forced to retire. 
Funeral services were held on July 29 in Sacred Heart church on the campus, and burial was in the Com­munity cemetery. 

CHRISTOPHER HOLLIS ARRIVES FOR YEAR'S COURSE 
The first of six European educators to teach and lecture at Notre Dame this year, arrived on the University campus on Sept. 8. He is Christopher HoUis, English economist, lecturer and writer, who will conduct courses for students in the economics depart­ment and who will deliver public lec­tures in Washington Hall. 
Mr. HoUis, his wife and two chil­dren, came to South Bend directly after landing in New York. They re­side at 1114 Belmont avenue, South Bend. 
The distinguished Englishman, al­though only 33 years old, has estab­lished a reputation as a monetary ex­pert and WTiter. Bom in 1902, the son of George A. Hollis, Anglican bishop of Taunton, he was educated at Eton and Balliol college, Oxford, and is an ex-president of Oxford union. In 1924 he was converted to the Catholic church and became assistant master of Stonyhurst college, near Black-bum, England. 
In his most recently published book, "The Breakdown of Money," which appeared in 1934, he attributed the American slump to the fact that pre­vious to 1929, although there was un­deniable prosperity, wages were too low. Despite the fact that there was much money in circulation, too little of it was in the hands of the con­sumer, the man in the position to buy what manufacturers produced. 
Mr. Hollis has written extensively for American, English and Austra­
lian periodicals. Among his published books are Glastonbury and England, 1927; Dr. Johnson, 1928; European History, 1929; Monstrous Regiment, 1929; St. Ignatius, 1931; Erasmus, 1933; Bryden, 1933. 
Senior is Killed 
Jolm Sweeney, of Indianapolis, an able and popular Senior, was killed and John Ford, also of Indianapolis, co-captain of this year's basketball, was injured, in an automobile acci­dent near Logansport, Indiana, on September 16 as the boys, with Ford's father, were returning to Notre Dame for registration. The senior Ford was also injured, but both he and his son have recovered. 
Retreat Attendance Increases 
In increasing numbers alumni re­turned this year for the seventeenth annual Laymen's Retreat conducted at the University from August 1 to 4. Organized efforts in the Chicago Club, the St. Joe Valley Club and the Ber­rien County (Michigan) club pro­duced results. And with the alumni movement toward the Retreat well started. Father Patrick J. Dolan, C.S.C, director of Laymen's Retreats, hopes for an even better showing next year on the part of the alumni. 
Retreat masters this year were Father John B. Delauny, C.S.C, and Father William A. Bolger, C.S.C. 
October, 1935 
N. D. ALUMNI-DEMOS HAVE LUNCHEON-MEETING 
The national convention of the Young Democrats in Milwaukee in the late Summer produced a Notre Dame luncheon, no less, on August 
24. It was arranged by a committee of Notre Dame delegates headed by Joe McNamara, '29, of Indianapolis. Assisting him were Leo Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; Jack Rob­inson, '28, Waterbury, Coim., Tom Traughber, '30, Clarksville, Tenn., and John M. Keefe, '31, New Rich­mond, Wis. 
Besides this noble quintet the fol­lowing were recorded as having been present at the luncheon: Charlie Cash,'28, Anamosa, Iowa; Maury Fadell, '25, Gary, Indiana; Mike Swy­gert, '27, Hammond, Indiana; Joe Dunn, '27, Brainerd, Minnesota; Frank McCarthy, '25, Indianapolis; Joe Sexton, '26, Indianapolis; Bob Kirby, '28, Indianapolis; Joe Deeb, '31, Grand Rapids; John Manley, '31, Des Moines; Bill Frawley, '30, Eau Claire, Wisconsin; Jack Jaeger, '33, Chicago; Larry Sexton, '32, Indian­apolis; Mike Reddington, '26, Indian­apolis; Ed Fenlon, '27, St. Ignace, Michigan; John Stackpole, '29, De­troit; Deon Sutton, '31, Detroit; Clar­ence Donovan, '31, Bedford, Indiana; Marshall Kizer, '30, Plymouth, Indi­ana; Joe Nyikos, '23, South Bend; Joe Howard, '24, Indianapolis; Leo O'Connor, '25, Indianapolis. 
Two or three others of the attend­ants at the luncheon got away with­out signing the register, according to Leo Mclntyre, who with his brother and a couple of friends stopped at Notre Dame going to and coming from the convention. 
And Indianapolis got the conven­tion for next year. 
BOOKS 
Late in August a monumental vol­ume of 900 pages entitled Survey of A Decade was published by the B. Herder Company of St. Louis and London. Its co-authors are Paul R. Martin, A.M., '09, and the Rev. Maxi-mus Poppy, O.F.M. It is a history of the Third Order of St. Francis in the United States and forms a veritable library of information on the Fran­ciscan social movement. 
This is the third book publis'­since 1932 having Paul R. Martin'.' name on the title page. The first was The Gospel in Action and the second. The First Cardinal of the West, 
which is the story of Cardinal Mun­delein's work as Archbishop of Chi­cago. 

October, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ARCHBISHOP HURTH. C.S.C, DIES AFTER LIFE OF 
ROGERS AND POST 

SERVICE TO MISSIONS IN INDIA AND PHILIPPINES 
(Editor's Note: The ALUMNUS presents here the story from The Herald, Catholic paper of Calcutta, India, regarding the death of a mem­ber of the Congregation of Holy Cross who was a world figure. Archbishop Hurth was a student at Notre Dame in 1877.) 
A cable from Manila on August 1, announced the death of Archbishop Hurth, who was Bishop of Dacca, for 15 years (1894-1909). At the time of his consecration as the second Bishop of Dacca, Msgr. Hurth was said to be the youngest bishop in Christendom. Gifted with prodigious vitality, he labored strenuously to buil d the Church in the vast territory of the Diocese of Dacca, which in his day included also what is now the diocese of Chittagong. Broken in health, he was obliged to leave Bengal in Janu­ary, 1910. 
After a few years spent at his home in Treves, Germany, and in Rome, Mgr. Hurth's health was suf­ficiently restored to enable him to accept the See of Neuva Segovia in the Philippine Islands in 1913. As the president of a College of the Holy Cross Congregation in Austin, Texas, for a period of ten years. Bishop Hurth had qualified in the Spanish language. This acquisition of his youth served him well in his aposto­late in Neuva Segovia, where the population mainly Spanish-speaking, numbered more than 900,000 souls. 
Bishop Hurth loved the Spanish Americans, and his attachment to his Philippine flock lasted till death. Aft­er an apostolate of 13 years in Nueva Segovia, Mgr. Hurth felt obliged to tender his resignation owin g to chronic ill-health. This was in 1926. He would not, however, leave the Island. By a special favor of the Holy See he was permitted to reside in Manila where after a protracted illness, he died on Thursday last in his 77th year. 
Mgr. Hurth was a member of the Congregation of Holy Cross and bish­op for 41 years. On the occasion of his retirement in 1926,, Mgr. Hurth was made titular Archbishop of Bosra and Roman Count. 
Catholics in India will remember the great interest Mgr. Hurth took in the organization of the first and second Eucharistic Congresses held in this country. He had the honor of presiding over both of these celebra­tions. Devotion to the Eucharistic Presence had been specially dear to him from early days and it was he together ^vith Father Maler, O.S.B., who had arranged the first Euchar­tisic Congress held in America, at Notre Dame, Indiana, in 1894. In the Diocese of Dacca he introduced Eu­charistic processions in all the mis­sions presiding at them personally, and he affiliated the diocese OTth the Perpetual Adoration at Montmartre, Paris. Though far from India His Grace kept in touch %%-ith Indi a through The Herald. 
M'CUE, DONAHUE AWARDS ARE ANNOUNCED FOR N. D. 
The memory of two men closely identified with the development of the University of Notre Dame -mil be perpetuated in scholarships which have been announced by Kev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president. 
Two gifts of §15,000 each by rela­tives of the late Martin J. McCue, former dean of Engineering at Notre Dame, and of the late William E. Donahue, former advertising mana­ger of the Chicago Tribune and spec­ial lecturer at the University, make possible the scholarships. 
The Martin J. McCue Fellowship is the gift of Miss Anna C. Slavin, a niece of Professor McCue, who spent 42 years of his life as a member of the University faculty and who was dean of the College of Engineering from 1905 until his retirement in 1927. 
The William E. Donahue Scholar­ship is the gift of his widow, Mrs. Mae Donahue. The income from the fund will be used to defray the ex­pense of a full scholarship in the College of Commerce. 
The Donahue scholarship will be 

awarded annually to a member of the 
Annunciation Parish, 1G50 N. Pauli­
na St., Chicago, who has graduated 
from an accredited high school. Mr. 
Donahue was reared in the parish and 
it is his widow's ^\•ish to continue, 
through this scholarship, the training 
of young men to which her husband 
devoted so much of his time. In 
addition to his lectures at Notre 
Dame, he supervised a training school 
for all young men entering the adver­
tising department of his paper. 
In awarding the scholarships, char­

acter and ability will be considered 
as well as scholastic merit. Selection 
of the recipient will be made by a 
committee composed of the Rev. 
Thomas L. Harmon, pastor of the 
Annunciation Parish; the president 
of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago; 
Mrs. Donahue, and James E. 
McCarthy, dean of the College of 
Commerce at Notre Dame. 
The McCue Fellowship will be used to encourage graduate research in the field of engineering. 
"Will Rogers was the great Amer­ican apostia of common sense, and his kindly wit helped immeasurably to keep American public opinion on its proper level. The taciturn Wiley Post was one of the great pioneers of aviation. He was the intrepid pilot, and Will Rogers was the intre­pid passengei:, and I feel a great sense of personal loss in their tragic passing. They were friends of Notre Dame and it is our prayer that God will grant peace to their souls." 
Such was the comment of Father John F. O'Hara, president of Notre Dame when he was told about the tragic death on August 15 of AVill Rogers and Wiley Post. 
Will, of course, had been the "star" of the football banquet on Jan. 16 of this year and a leading figure at the aeronautical conference at the Uni­versity on the same day. A close friend of Rock's, he had also been well acquainted with the late Father Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, and with Father O'Hara and Elmer Lay-den. Through all of these and others he had come to know and appreciate Notre Dame and was one of the school's firmest supporters. 
Wiley Post was likewise a Notre Dame supporter and his visit to the campus is well remembered by stu­dents of recent years. 
CS.C. BROTHERS JOIN STAFF 
OF VINCENTIAN INSTITUTE 

Four Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross took up their duties as members of.the faculty of the Vin­centian Institute, Albany, New York, with the opening of the Fall school term. Brother John Baptist, C.S.C, has been appointed superior. He will be aided by Brother Eymard, C.S.C, Brother Lawrence Justinian, C.S.C, and Brother Joel, C.S.C, all gradu­ates of the University. 
The Brothers will conduct th e classes for boys registered in the first year high school at the Institute, and will assist with some of the classes in the Technical High School. 
It is the intention of the Rev. Wil­liam R. Charles, principal of Vincen­tian Institute, to increase the number of teaching Brothers each year until separate faculties are established for boys and girls attending the Institute. 
Registered for 1941 

John J. O'Connor, Milwaukee, Wis., brother of William J., '35, is regis­tered to begin his Notre Dame course in pre-medics in 1941. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1935 
CENTRAL OHIO ALUMNI PLAN BIG OHIO STATE WEEK-END 
The Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio with headquarters in Columbus is planning several special entertain­ment features for visiting alumni at the Notre Dame-Ohio State game there November 2, Ray Eichenlaub, club president, has announced. 
On Friday preceding the game a giant luncheon party at one of the downtown hotels to which both Ohio State and Notre Dame alumni are welcomed will be held with speakers of both Notre Dame and Ohio State attending. 
Friday evening the University Club of Colimibus is having a dinner at which both Elmer Layden and Coach Francis' Schmidt of Ohio State will be the featured speakers. This din­ner, while under the auspices of the University club of Columbus, will be open to alumni of both Ohio State and Notre Dame. 
Later in the evening the Notre Dame club of Central Ohio will hold a stag party at the Knights of Colum­bus home at which both alumni and friends of Notre Dame will be wel­come. 
Plans are also imder way for a dance Saturday night in Columbus after the game, which also will be open to friends as well as alumni of Notre Dame. 
Anyone interested in reservations for any of these entertainments may secure additional information by writ­ing to the Notre Dame Club of Cen­tral Ohio in care of the Knights of Colimibus home at Columbus, Ohio. 
With prospects for a sell-out for the game, which means a crowd of at least 90,000 in Ohio's huge stadium, those planning to attend the game are urged to secure all reservations and tickets early as possible since hotel space probably will be taxed to the limit. 
PRE-GAME SESSIONS 
Beginning its Fall program of pre­game meetings under the direction of President Francis Jones, the Notre Dame club of the St. Joseph Valley on Friday evening, Sept. 27, had a smoker for its members in the College Inn of the LaSalle Hotel, South Bend. Head Coaach Ad Lindsey of the Kan­sas team was a special guest and the 1935 graduates in the club's territory were introduced. Norman Hartzer and Giles Cain were the chairmen in gen­eral charge of arrangements. 
Prexy Jones has planned similar meetings for the Friday evenings pre­ceding the remaining home games and he extends a special welcome to all returning alumni to be present. The operator of the University switch­board and all the do«Titown hotels will have information as to the time and places of these sessions. 
The Gipp Fountain 
It was the privilege of the editor on Saturday, August 3, to participate in the dedication of a memorial park in Laurium, Mich., designed to honor George Gipp, '21, AU-American ath­lete of the University of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame men are familiar with the circumstances which have pre­vented the University and Notre Dame men from erecting a tangible memorial to Gipp. But they are also familiar with the permanent place he occupies in the traditions of the school. 
The park is a triangular piece of ground at the comer of Lake Linden Ave. and Tamarack St., in Laurium. Near the center is a rock fountain 15 feet high. On this fountain, built of rocks from the shores of Superior, is a simple bronze plaque, with the in­scription "George Gipp—AU-Ameri­can," and below the dates of his birth and death, 1895-1920. 
One of the features of the dedica­tion was the presence on the platform of the mother, brother and sister of the deceased hero. Mrs. Gipp has since died, making the honor to her son seem even more a timely expres­sion. 
Dominic Vairo, '34, football cap­tain at Notre Dame, and Larry Dan­bom, full back on the '35 squad, were also on the platform. 
Many beautiful floral tributes, in­cluding a gold and blue wreath from Notre Dame, were placed about the monmnent. Mrs. Gipp was presented 
•mth several memorials by civic or­ganizations. 
The park and the project itself were the results of efforts by the Laurium Commercial Club. The Dailj/ Mining Gazette of Houghton issued a very interesting Gipp Memorial edi­tion. The dedication ceremonies, at­tended by several thousand persons, were also broadcast over the local radio station. 
MSGR. JOHN J. BURKE, '83. OBSERVES HIS GOLDEN JUBILEE 
The golden jubilee of his ordination 

to the priesthood and the silver anni­
versary of his pastorate at St. Mark's 

Church in Peoria, Illinois, were ob­
served on July 2 by the Rt. Rev. 
Msg:r. John J. Burke, '83. 
Chief among the several observ­
ances, religious and civic, marking 
the two events was the solemn high 

Mass celebrated by Msgr. Burke, as­
sisted by Father Patrick J. Carroll, 
C.S.C, editor of The Ave -Maria. 
Father James A. Bums, C.S.C, for­
mer president of the University, now 
United States provincial of the Order, 
was also among the hundred priests 
present for the Mass and for the 
luncheon which followed it in the Pere 
Marquette Hotel, Peoria. 
In 1931, after many years of out­standing accomplishments in Saint Mark's Parish, and in other parts of the Peoria diocese. Father Burke was raised to the dignity of a monsignor by the Pope. His investiture took place on Nov. 3,1931, with impressive ceremonies. 
The ALUMNUS extends to Msgr. Burke, a loyal Notre Dame man through many years, its felicitations and its best wishes for fruitful years ahead. This opportunity should also be taken to acknowledge appreciation for the volume Fifty Golden Years in Central Illinois, by Mrs. Nelle C. Donovan which is the excellent story of Msgr. Burke's 50 years of service to God. 
75,000 See Campus 
With the aid of a guide service ar­ranged and directed by the Alumni Office, an estimated 75,000 persons, varying from college administrators and statesmen to members of carnival troupes visited the Notre Dame cam­pus during the Summer just past. In each of the previous two Summers it was estimated that upwards of 150,000 persons, mostly those going to or coming from the Century of Progress Exposition in Chicago, had visited the University. 
Visitors came this year from China, Hawaii, Canada and from every state in the Union. Nearly all of them ex­pressed amazement at the size and development of the campus, accord­ing to Chief Guide John Lechner, '36, and his assistants, Harold Goebel, '35 and Frank Timney, '35. 
President Talks at Eucharistic Congress Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, 
•president of the University, was one of the principal speakers on Sept. 24, at the National Eucharistic Congress in Cleveland. He addressed a gather­ing of clergy on the subject "The Eucharistic Priest and the Catholic Action of Young Men." 

October. 1935 The Notre Dame Alumrtus 
Chansed Campus Welcomes Students 
(Continued from Page 5) 

created post of student counsellor of the University. Father Walsh, who spent last year in Washington, D.C., will reside in Alumni Hall and will conduct several classes. 
Curriculum changes and additions make special not of the new Depart-make special note of the new Depart-the College of Engineering and the new Department of Politics in the College of Arts and Letters. Of the former department the new head is Professor F. N. M. Brown, an exper­ienced aircraft engineer, connected 
•\vith the Allison Engineering Com­pany, Indianapolis, just before he came to Notre Dame. Mr. Brown was graduated from the University of Michigan with a master's degree in 1932. Previously he had spent several years in the airplane division of the Ford Motor Company. He had also acted as consulting engineer for the Goodyear Zeppelin- Company, th e Stout Engineering Laboratories, the Bendix Aviation Corporation and other concerns. 
Father Francis J. Boland, prefect of discipline, is now also hoail of the newly established Department of Poli­tics. Though new as organized into a separate department of study at Notre Dame, politics is, of course, by no means new in the Notre Dame curriculum, since in various forms, changed to meet changing needs, it has been a subject of study for years past. Until this year politics was in­cluded in the Department of Eco­nomics and Politics. 
To assist the able Father Boland in his double-duty program Robert H. McAuliife, '18, has been appointed as-' sistant prefect of discipline and will, according to present plans, assume a substantial part of Father Boland's work. For several years past Bob has been assisting the department in su­pervising off-campus student activi­ties and has, as well, been promotion manager for The Ave Maria. Now, however, he has given up his former Ave Maria duties. 
Christopher Hollis, noted English economist and writer (of whom more 
•ivill be found in another part of this issue) is an outstanding addition to the faculty. He is conducting classes in history and economics and \vill, in addition, offer publi c lectures in Washington Hall. 
James Corbett, an archeological scholar recently returned from Tur­key, is to teach in the Institute of Medieval Studies and will also direct important research work in the Notre Dame archives. 
Roger Knittel, C.P..A.., an e.xper­ienced accountant, has been added to the accountancy staff of the College of Commerce. 
Desmond Fitzgerald Arrives 

Desmon d Fitzgerald, prominent Irish statesman and writers, was to arrive on the campus on Oct. 1 for a six weeks' course of lectures on eco­nomics and international policies. As the second of a group of six illus­trious European figures who are to come to Notre Dame this year, Mr. Fitzgerald joined Christopher Hollis who arrived in South Bend early in September. Still to come are Jacques Maritain, Etienne Gilson, .A.rnold Lunn and G. K. Chesterton. 
The University and, especially, the College of Arts and Letters will miss for the year the Inspiring direction of the scholarly Father Charles Milt­ner, who is to attend Louvain in Bel­gium for special study in philosophy. Acting in Father Miltner's place for the year is Professor T. Bowyer Campbell, of the Department of His­tory. 
Father Tom Brennan, the much-admired professor of philosophy, has succeeded Father Miltner as head of the Department of Philosophy. 
Professor Al Doyle has succeeded Professor Frank Kelly as head of the Department of Speech. 
Absent from the campus for the year is Professor John P. Turley, of the Department of Classics, who is the exchange student from Notre Dame at the University of Pavia in Italy. Ugo Schilke, of Italy, will attend Notre Dame as part of the arrangement. 
New appointments amon g the priests and brothers of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross were announced in of Notre Dame, sent to alumni. 
RELIGIOUS TREASURES SHOWN 
IN CHURCH AT NOTRE DAME 

In the sacristy of Sacred Heart church on the campus at Notre Dame, there have been placed three exhibi­tion cases of religious treasures, in­cluding a silver chalice used by Pope Pius IX, a solid bronze crucifix pre­sented to the Church of Napoleon HI of France, and a sionstrance given in the' name of the Prince Imperial. 
These treasures, which have ac­cumulated since the founding of the University, came through the person­al solicitations of the Rev. Joseph Carrier, C.S.C., who was commis­sioned in 1866 by Father Corby, the University President, to go to Europe to solicit gifts for the struggling University. After seven months he shipped to Notre Dame 20 crates of contributions for the church, library, science, and natural history depart­ments. 
Besides these, the exhibition con­tains precious hand embroidered and painted vestments, chalices, croziers, ciboria, monstrances, and other ob­jects pertaining to divine worship. Among the vestments are some of cloth of gold from the major college of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Neuilly, near Paris, which was closed on the expulsion of the religious from France in 1910. 
A gold ciboriimi with cloisonne or­namentation marks the foundation date of the Priests' Eucharistic league in the United States, and an­other, less ornate, presenteid on the silver jubilee of the same league. 
At the time of the reception of the other gifts, the Empress Eugenie gave a gold crown studded with pre­cious jewels, which, unfortunately, was stolen in 1866 along ^vith another less valuable crown orig^ally de­signed to surmount the statue atop the gold dome. 
Father Carrier, who obtained most of these gifts for the University, was one of the seven army chaplains from Notre Dame who served in the Civil war, and his proudest boast, after his priesthood was his American citi­zenship. Although bom in France, he became a citizen of the United States, later to die in the house of the Con­gregation at Montreal. 
Dooley Has Additional Job 

William R. Dooley, '26, Managing Editor of the ALUMNUS and Assist­ant Alumni Secretary, has assumed in addition the duties of Graduate Manager of Publications. In his new capacity Bill will direct the business activities of the Scholastic, the Dome and Scrip, the three major student publications on the campus. 
EIGHTY-NINE DEGREES GIVEN AT 1935 SUMMER SESSION 
Thirty-seven advanced and 52 bac­

calaureate degrees were conferred by 
the University at Commencement ex­
ercises on July 30 inarking the close 
of the seventeenth summer session. 
The Commencement address was delivered by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, secretary of the graduate school at Notre Dame and head of the Institute of Medieval Studies. 
The summer session just closing 

showed a continuation of the trend toward graduate work by grammar and high school teachers. More than one-half of the entire enrollment rep­resented students seeking advanced degrees. Doctor of philosophy degrees . were conferred on two members of 
the graduate school. They were: 
Willard Joseph Croxall, '32, of Ab­erdeen, Wash., whose dissertation subject was: "Organic Reactions with Boron Fluoride," and Carroll John Wilson, '31, of Buchanan, Mich., whose dissertation in the field of physical chemistry was: "Electric Moments of Some Organic Com­pounds." 
FATHERMOORE'S ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 8) 

means to contribute of their wealth toward the endowment of our gradu­ate schools. 
From what I have said some of you may conclude tha t the graduate schools of our Catholic universities have this far accomplished nothing or that no Catholic research scholars have been developed in America, whilst others, knowing something of the research work done in Catholic schools, may feel that I have exag­gerated this deficiency in our Catholic education. I grant that we have had and have today a few Catholic schol­ars, eminent in various fields of re­search and productive scholarship. To these men of the past or of the pres­ent we pay tribute. Then too, the work of a few young men is begin­ning to attract attention. To these young scholars we should give the utmost encouragement. But I venture that these scholars themselves would be the first to deny that I have over­stated the need, for research scholar­ship in Catholic education. 
In conclusion, I congratulate you, members of the graduating class of the Notre Dame Summer Session of 1935. God's blessing on you and on your future work. May He deign to illumine us all with His uncreated light that we may advance valiantly in our search for truth. And may our search for created truth in every art and science redound to the greater honor r-nd frlory of Him who is un­created Truth. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1935 
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By John J. Lechner, '36 
TRIBULATIONS OF A DEAN 
Registration days brought their us­ual hurly-burly to the campus with wild-eyed freshmen wandering from building to building, sophomores viewing proceedings with blase un­concern, and juniors and seniors wor­rjing about getting their schedules arranged so that all their classes should be in the mornings. The best story on registration concerns the freshman who approached T. Bowyer Campbell, acting dean of the college of Arts and letters during Father Miltner's leave of absence. 
"I'd like to have all my classes in the morning," explained the fresh­man. "I have a job working down town in the afternoons." 
"Get a letter from your employer stating that you are employed and I'll see what I can do," promised Mr. Campbell. 
An hour later the freshman return­ed, the desired letter clutched tri­umphantly in his hand. Opening it the astonished Dean read: 
"To whom it may concern: 

"This is to introduce John Blank who has served us well and faithfully the past three years as an employee in our mailing department. He is of the highest character and we are proud to recommend him." 
CHINESE AT N. D. 
Two of the most interesting new­comers to the campus are the Li brothers, Allan and George, of Hong Kong, China. Both boys are sopho­mores, having transferred from Mich­igan State. Allan is pursuing a Fine Arts course and hopes to do art work for the various campus publications, while George is a Physical Education major. Notre Dame is quite well known in China, they said, and to quote Allan, ". . . In China, Notre Dame is thought of as being the foot­ball center of the Universe . . ." They have been in the United States for four years, ha\'ing taken their high school work at the Rodney Wilson high school at St. John's, Michigan. What particularly appeals to them in the American scholastic system is the greater freedom allowed the student. In China, they explained, boarding students at the Catholic colleges are only allowed to leave the campus but once a month. As for American cus­toms and dances— 
"We love dances," chorused the brothers Li. 
OBSERVATION 
One thing we'll wager will be gone from the campus scene next spring and that is the "Please do not walk 
on the grass sign that popped up whenever a comer was turned. In ac­cordance with the Universitj''s "Cam­pus Beautiful" program new cement sidewalks have been placed at stra­tegic points so that to stray from the beaten paths now means only a loss of time. It's a mighty tough break, though, for Johnny Moran, editor of the Scholastic. In previous years, whenever the Scholastic dead line was too close for comfort and another half-column was needed to fill out the editorial page a stirring plea to keep off the grass ..."(... "after all, you wouldn't want people tramping across your front lawn, would you, fellows? . . . ") could always be counted upon to fill the gap. 
It looks like a mighty thoughtful year for Johnny Moran. 
"SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME" 
A special showing was held the night before classes started of the motion picture, "The Spirit of Notre Dame," "Freshmen Only," read the bulletin boards yet many a frosh, ar­riving late, found what should have been his seat occupied by some up­perclassman anxious to once again hear Rock's dynamic voice and to see his great stars in action. 
However, we can't help wondering how many 115 poundei-s, after seeing the picture, reported to Coach Jake Kline's freshman squad the next day. 
Guest-masters, guides , painters, construction workers, secretaries these were but a few of the various types of jobs held down by some 40 students who were employed on the campus the entire summer. The con­struction gang, who worked both at laying sidewalks and at erecting the new Infirmary, all resembled dusky Tarzans after their summer of daily working in the broiling sun. The painters, however, under the direction of B Team Coach Bill Cemey, also absorbed plenty of heat in their seat-painting job in the Stadium. The guides handled some 50,000 \isitors competently, the guest-masters an­swered several hundre d questions courteously, and the secretaries did whatever secretaries do. All in all everyone had both a pleasant and profitable summer. 
Hoyer in Peoria 

. Professor Raymond A. Hoyer, head >, of the Department of Boy Guidance, was one of the speakers at the annu­al state conference on the prevention of delinquency held in Peoria, Illinois, on Sept. 11. 
October, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 ATHLETIC PUBUCny 

ATHLETICS 


'PROSPECTS WORSE THIS YEAR", LAYDEN SAYS OF '35 SEASON 
"Prospects were bad last year; this year they may be described as worse." 
This was the message Honest El­mer Layden had for humanity on the occasion of the opening of fall foot­ball practice at the Alma Mater— September 10. It's just as well he wasn't asked the same question the next day, for he probably wouldn't have been able to answer at all, the reason being that Harry Becker, his only right guard, and a made-over tackle at that, took ill with a sinus infection and matriculated at St. Joseph's hospital for an indefinite stay after completing just one day of practice. 
Those of you who pass off your school's 'football future with arching the eyebrow, shooting the cuff, and saying, "Well, it ought to be a pretty good year," should lend an ear to your coach. 
Sad enough it was that Capt. Dominic Vairo and Rocco Schiralli, right end and left guard, respective­ly, had to get their diplomas, along with George Melinkovich, the best halfback on the team (he made the most points, the most total yards and the most average yards last year). The situation became worse when Jack Robinson, all-America center was ruled ineligible for having played five minutes or so of "B" ball as a sophomore. Real tragedy struck the squad when Captain Joseph Sullivan, left tackle, was taken on March 20 after an amazing battle against a complication of diseases. Maybe his spiritual leadership will make up for his absence on the field, but you'll have a hard time convincing the play­ers and coaches that they haven't lost a grand player, an inspiring leader, and a warm friend. Taken only as a player, Joe's absence is bound to be felt. Following his passing, Bill Smith, plucky little right guard, was lost to the squad for the season when he imderwent an operation for the re­moval of kidney stones the middle of August. 
You may add to the loss of these six varsity stars of 1933, the gradua­tion of Sturia Canale and Irwin Da­vis at the ends, Fred Weidner, Paul Schrenker, and Dick Shamla at right guard, Dan Hanley at right half, Bud Bonar at quarterback, and some 48 reserves who couldn't scrape up the credits, who got sick, or who were graduated, and what do you have? You have 60 men missing out of last year's squad of 110. 
And what do you have left? In the line you have two 1934 regulars, Wayne Millner, brilliant left end, and John Michuta, a steady right tackle. In the backfield you have more mater­ial than you can conveniently use, fellows like Wally Fromhart, Frankie Gaul and Bill Bruno at quarterback; Bill Shakespeare, Andy Pilney, Mike Layden, Tony Mazziotti, Bob Wilke, and Vic Wojcihovski at the halfbacks; 
(Continued on Pzee 30) 

1935  NOTRE DAME VARSITY  FOOTBALL ROSTER  
Name  Pos.  Home  town  Preparatory  School  Age  Wt.  Ht.  Exp.  
Arboit, Ennio  Benjamin  R.H.  Oslcsby. III.  St.  Bcde, Peru,  Illinois  17  ISO  5:10%  0  
Becker*, Harr>' Pelle  R.G.  Louisville,  Ky.  St. X.wer H. S.  22  1S2  6:  1  
Belden.  William  Hinchlitte  R.T.  Canton.  Ohio  Phillips E.\eter,  N. H.  20  205  6:2  2  
Bishop,  George  Haynes  L.T.  Freewater,  Ore.  McLoughlin Union H. S.  19  190  6:2V6  0  
Borowski,  Chas.  Casimir  L.H.  South  Bend,  Ind.  Central H. S.  20  170  5:11  0  
Brcnnan.  Edward  Joseph  F.B.  Gary,  Ind.  Paw Paw Mich. H. S.  19  ISO  5:11  0  
Bruno,  William  Benjamin  Q.B.  Asbury  Park,  N. Y.  Asbury Park H. S.  21  175  3:8  1  
Carideo,**  Fred  Joseph,  Jr .  F.B.  Mt.  Vernon,  N. Y.  Mt. Vernon, H. S.  22  ISO  5:10%  2  
Carrigan,  Maurice  Richard  R.T.  Chicago, 111.  St. George H. S.  19  197  6:2%  0  
Chanowicz,  Stanley  Joseph  R.T.  Philadelphia. Pa.  West Catholic H. S.  20  197  6:1  0  
Church,*  Auirust  Joseph  L.G.  N. Plainficld,  N.  J.  K. Plainfield H. S.  21  153  5:7  2  
Clillord. Jeremiah  Joseph  L.E.  Chicaf;o, 111.  Mt. Carmel H. S.  20  190  6:1  0  
Connor,  Joseph  George  R.G.  W. Springfield,  Mass,  Cathedral H. S.  20  195  5:9  0  
Cronin,  Arthur  Dennis,  Jr.  R.T.  Detroit, Mich.  U. ot Detroit H. S.  21  203  6:  1  
Crottj',  Irwin  Patrick  R.H.  Storm Lake. Iowa  Storm Laks H. S.  22  180  5:10%  1  
Danbom,  Laurence  Edwin  F.B.  Calumet.  Mich.  Calumet H. S.  20  192  6:  1  
Darcy, John  Francis  L.H.  Boston, Mass.  Mission H. S. Roxburj­ 22  ISO  6:  1  
Derengoski,  Robert  Andrew  L.E.  Manistee, Mich.  Manistee H. S.  IS  197  6:3  0  
DiMatteo. Joseph  Angelo  F.B.  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Perry H. S.  20  178  5:9  0  
Donlon. Francis  John  L.T.  Endicott, N, Y.  Union-Endicott  H.  S.  IS  196  6:  1  
Donnelly, Patrick  Ignatius  C.  South Bend, Ind,  Central  H. S.  19  ISG  6:1  0  
Dunn, Edward  Reardon  C.  Chicago, III.  Campion, Wis.  21  195  6:2  2  
Elliott,  Francis  Joseph  R.E.  New  Rochel'c, N. Y.  New  Rochelle  H.  S.  21  195  6:2  0  
Elser,** Donald  Lewis  F.B.  Gary. Ind,  Horace Mann H. S.  22  220  6:3  2  
Emanuel,  Dennis  George  L.T.  Iowa  City,  Iowa  St. Patrick H. S.  19  194  6:1  0  
Fay.  William  McKeon  F.B.  Memphis,  Tenn.  Catholic H. S.  21  168  5:11  0  
Fogel, John  Nick  C.  Chicago, III.  Mt. Carmel H. S.  20  185  5:10  0  
Foster, Har\'ey  Goodson  L.G.  South Bend, Ind.  Highland Pk. H.S., Detroit 21  1S5  6:  0  
Fromhart,*  Wallace  Leo  Q.B.  Moundsvitle, W, Va.  Moundsville H. S.  22  183  5:11  2  
Gaul,** Francis  Joseph  Q.B.  Water\'ille, Me.  Watenille  H.  S.  21  167  5:9%  2  
Gleason,  Joseph  Thomas  Q.B.  Chicago, 111,  Leo H. S.  21  181  6:  0  
Gorman,  Richard  Edward  R.G.  Peoria. Ill,  Spalding Institute  18  178  5:10%  0  
Guggisberg, John  Brown  L.E.  Fort Dodge, Iowa  Fort  Dodse  H.  S.  21  195  6:4  0  
Hack, James  Gorman  L.G.  Chicago, 111.  Loyola  &  Culver.  Ind.  21  187  5:10  1  
Hauck, John  Booth  R.G.  Donora,  Pa.  Donora  H.  S.  19  182  5:10%  0  

(Continued on Next Page) 
October, 1935 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1935 NOTRE DAME VARSITY FOOTBALL ROSTER 
(Continued from Preceding Page) 

Name Pos, Home town Preparatory School Are Wt. 
Hawley, Jess Bradford, Jr. L.E. Boise, Idaho St. Joseph H. S. 19 ISO Head. John Ir\-inE R.T. Waterwlle. N. Y, Cook Academy 20 
193 

 H. 21 179 Hickcy. Louis Joseph L.R South Bend, Ind. Central S. 
Horan, Ray Augustine R.T. Briditeport, Conn, Central H. S. 20 17S Jackowski, Balph George H.H. Chicago, 111. St. Rita Col. Acad. 
20 183 Kelly, John Grog K.E. Chicago, 111. St. George, Evanston 19 181 Kling, Ernest Fred E. R.H. Youngstown, Ohio Jasper, Ind. Acad. 20 169 Kling, Werner Hubert L.H. Youngstown, Ohio Jasper, Ind., Acad. 18 163 Kopczak. Frank Gregory R.T. Chicago, 111. Harrison Tech. H. S. 21 198 
Kovalcik, George John L.H. Donora, Pa. Donora H. S. 20 188 Kuharich, Joseph Lawrence n.G. South Bend, Ind. Riley H. S. 18 188 Lautar,* John Paul L.G. Moundsville, W. Va. Moundsville H. S. 21 185 Laydcn,* Francis Louis R.H.. Davenport, Iowa Davenport H. S. 22 177 Levickj, John Joseph R.T. Philadelphia, Pa. SL John Baptist H. S. 21 198 Liscinsky, Andrew George C. Whiting, Ind. Catholic Cent., Hammond 19 199 
R.T. 

Hacaluso, Charles Joseph Cleveland Hts., Ohio Cleveland Hts. H. S. 19 203 
Marr, John Harold R.E. Waltham, Mass. Boston College H. S. 19 17S Marshall, Walter Michael R.G. Philadelphia, Pa. Grot7. H. S. 20 184 Martin, James Richard  H. Dean Mass. 21 181 
L.G. Concord, N. Acad., 
Mazziotti,** Anthony Joseph White Plains H. S. 21 193 McCarthy, William Patrick 
R.H. Elmsford, N. Y. 
R.E. Glen Cove, L. I., N. Y. Glen Cove H. S. 22 187 McCarty, Patrick Francis C. Toledo, Ohio Cent. Catholic H. S. 19 201 
McCormick, Js'eWn Francis 

K.H. Livermore, Calif. Livermore H. "S. 21 167 McGovem, Geo. Wash., Jr. 
R.T. Lynbrook, L. I., N. Y. Fishbume Mil., Va. 21 197 McGrath, Robert Arthur 
F.B. Oak Park, III. Fenwick H. S. 19 179 McGuire, James Francis L.E. Anaconda, Mont. Anaconda H. S. 21 172 McEenna, James Arthur Q.B. St. Paul, Minn. Cretin H. S. 19 168 McKeman, Barth Paul R.H. Hege^visch, Chicago, III. Mount Carmel H. S. 21 162 McMahon, Joseph Patrick L.G. Chicago, III. St. Phillip H. S. 21 178 Megin, Bernard Edward Q.B. Concord, Mass. Bridgoton, Me., Ac::d. 21 168 Michuta,** John Francis R.T. Detroit, Mich. Holy Name Inst. 22 198 Miller,* Stephen Christian F.B. Rock Island, III. St. Joseph H. S. 20 183 Millner,** Wayne Vernal L.E. Salem, Slass. Salem H. S. 22 184 Moriarty, George Joseph Q.B. Lynn, Mass. Clark, Hanover, N. H. 22 145 Moritz, Christopher D. 
L.K Seymour, Ind. Shields H. S. 21 195 Mulcahey, James Lane L.G. Taunton, Mass. Taunton H. S. 19 188 Mundee, Fred William C. Youngstou-n, Ohio South H. S. 21 187 Murphj-, John Patrick R.B. South Bend, Ind. Central H. S. 20 175 Nee, Maurice Lyden L.E. Washington, D. C. Georgetown Prep. 19 175 0*NeiU, Joseph Ignatius Jr. 
L.E. PhoenixviUe, Pa. LaSallc H. S., Phila. 20 186 O'Reilly, Charles William 
Peters,** Martin Joseph Q.B. St. Mary's, Ohio Memorial H. S. 21 170 R.E. Peoria, 111. Spalding Institute 22 205 Pfefferle,** Richard Joseph 

Pilney,** Andy James L.T. Appleton, \\ls. Campion Prep., Wis. 22 205 

1,.H. Chicago, 111. Harrison Tech H. S. 22 175 Pojman,* Henry Frank 
Chicago, 111. Harrison Tech H. S. 21 193 Puplis, Andrew Joseph R.G. Chicago, 111. 
Psik, Paul Ralph C. 

Morgan Pk., 111., Mil. 20 189 Race, Adrian Joseph Q.B. Chicago. 111. Harrison Tech H. S. 20 169 Robertson, Robert Samuel 
R.G. Milwaukee, Wis. Pio N'ono H. S. 20 183 
Robinson, James Alex, Jr. C Peru, Ind. Peru H. S. 20 197 Ruetz, Joseph Hubert C. Hinsdale, III. Loyola H. S., Chicago 19 173 Schilling, Joseph Valentine L.G. South Bend, Ind. Central H. S. 19 187 
Schloemer, Bertrand Aug. R.T. Pleasantville, N. Y. Dwight, N. Y. City 21 198 Schmidt, Richard Anthony L.E. Cincinnati, Ohio Xavier H. S. 20 185 Schrader, Walter Lang F.B. Woodhaven, L. I., N. Y. Richmond Hill H. S. 21 191 Schwartz, William Spencer E.G. Weston, W. Va. Danville, Va., Mil. 20 168 Shakespeare,** Wm. Valentine R.R Bay SL Louis, Miss. St. Stanislaus Col. 19 185 Skoglund. Leonard Howard L.H. Staten Island, N.' Y. Port Richmond H. S. 22 179 Smith. Paul Edward I^B. Chicago, 111. Nicholas Senn H. S. 19 187 Snell. Edward William L.G. Batavia, N. Y. Batavia H. S. 20 165 Solari,** Fred Charles L.H. Erie, Pa. Academy H. S. 21 186 Steinkemper,* Wm. Jacob C. Pembroke, Mass. Commerce H. S., Boston 22 205 Stilley,* Kenneth Leonard 
L.T. Chicago, III. DePaul Academy 21 209 Sullivan, Daniel Francis L.T.  Pa. Clairton H. 22 210 
Clairton, S. F.B. Chicago, 111. 
Sweeney, Charles Alex. St. Ignatius H. S. 20 168 Themes,* Matthew John 
K.E. Bloomington, 111. Trinity H. S. 20 187 Thomas, John David 
L.K Cincinnati, Ohio Roger Bacon H. S. 21 188 Van Wagner, Gerard Joseph 
L.T. Chicago, 111. St. George H. S. Evanston IS 193 Wilke. Robert Edward 
L.H. W. Brishton, S. I., N. Y. Curtis H. S. 21 177 Winsouer, Paul Vincent 
L.H. Hamilton, Ohio Hamilton Catholic 20 165 Wojcihovski, Victor Joseph 
C. Peoria, 111. Spalding Institute 20 189 Zenner, Elmer John 
R.H. Weston, W. Va. Weston H. S. 21 179 Zwers, Joseph Bernard R.G. Racine, Wis. St. Catherine H. S. 21 181 
R.K Grand Rapids, Mich. Catholic Central H. S. 19 178 
Ht. 
6: 6:1 6: 6: 5:10 6:1 5:11 5:7 6: 5:11 5:11 6:1 6:1 6:3 6: 6:1 6: 5:10^4 5:11 5:8 6:1 
6:2^ 5:8 6:2^4 6:1H 5:10 5:1016 5:8 5:11% 5:10 6:115 6: 6: 5:7V4 6:3 5:8yj 6:14 
5:11 5:10 6:2 5:8 6:3 6:2 5:11 5:11 5:5 5:8 5:10% 6:2 5:9 5:11% 6:2% 5:11 6: 5:9 6:2 5:11 6:1 5:9% 6:1 6:2 6:2 6:1 5:9 5:11% 6:1 5:11 6:1% 6: 6: 6: 6: G: 
Exp. 
I 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 1 0 0 0 0 1 2 1 
• 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 I 1 2 1 
•1 
2 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 2 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 2 0 1 0 
2 
1 2 0 0 2 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
OFFICERS OF THE ALUMN ASSOCIATION 
1935-1936 

Honorary President  Albert F. Zahm, '83  Director  _  Hugh A. O'DonneU, '94  
President  _  Bernard J. VoU, '17  Director  — Fred L. Steers, '11  
First Vice-President  Albert J. Galen, '96  Director  James E. Deery, '10  
Second Vice-President  George N. Shuster,  '15  Director  Don P. O'Keefe,  '03  
Secretary-Treasurer  James E. Armstrong, '25  Director (ex-officio)  Timothy P. Galvin, '16  
Assistant Secretary ....'  William E. Dooley, '26  Director  (one-year)  Thomas G. Proctor, '35  

GOVERNOR S  
District  1—John W. Schindler.  '09, Mishawaka,  Ind.  District  12—Hugh M. Alatrevney, '25, Memphis, Tenn.  
District 2—James A. Ronan,*26, Chicaso, lU.  District 13—Lawrence Hennessey, '27, Vicksburir, Miss.  
District 3—Hcnrj* F. Barnhart. '23, Lima, Ohio  District 14—AVitliam Grady. '17, Dallas. Texas  
District 4—^Henry Lauerman, '23, Menominee, Mich.  District 15—John M. Ehiiran, *27, Kansas City, Mo.  
District 5—John T- Hicnins. '23. Detroit. Mich.  District 16—Sherwood DLxon, '20, Dbcon, III.  
District 6—Ausrust G. Desch. '23, Philadelphia, Pa.  District 17—George A. McGee, '01. Minot. No. Dakota  
District 7—Edward A. Fallon, '26, New York City  District 18—Robert Fox, '01, Denver, Colo.  
District 8—Gerard Ashe, '22, Rochester, N. Y.  District 19—^Thomas H. Heam, '15, Los Angeles, Calif.  
District 9—John Robinson, '28, Waterbury, Conn.  District 20—E. P. Carville, '09. Elko, Nev.  
District 10—Frank A. Reese, '25, Raleish, North Carolina  District 21—Walter M. Daly, '04. Portland. Ore.  
District II—Matthew O'Brien. '31, Tampa. FJa.  District 22 (Foreign)—Julius Arce, '99, Buenos Aires, Argentine,  S.A.  

AKRON Joseph H. Kraker, '29, l7-6.24th St.. Cuy­ahoga Falls, Ohio, President. Claude H. Homing. '29, 133 N. Highland Ave., Akron, Secretary. 
• 

ARIZONA James D. Barry. *9". Consolidated Bank Bid?., Tucson, President. Steven Rebeil, 
•25, 620 N. Sfacth St.. Tucson, Secretary. 
ARKANSAS Kev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, *14, Hope, Ark.. President. Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock. Ark., Secretary. 
* 

BENGAL R t Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02.. Dacca, Bengal, India, President. Rev. J, 
J. Henessey, C.S.C., '02, Dacca, Bengal, India, Secretary. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) Wm. H. Downey, '28, 1C15 Oak St . Niles, Mich., President. Malcolm K. Hatfield, '29, 2305 5^iles Ave., St. Joseph, Mich., Secretary. Helmuth's Beach on Lake Michi­gan, near St. Joseph, was the spot which the Berrien County picked out for its stag picnic on August 15. JIM ARMSTEONG, just hack from a few days with the Eskimos in northern Michigan, represented the Alumni Office. Swimming, games, entertain­ment and food supplied the diversion. IRV HALLETT, CLARENCE HESS. LOUIE PATTON and TOM GRIMES arranged the details. 
BOSTON Jarlath (Jack) Slattery, '21, 226 L. St.. So. Boston, Mass., President. James Ska­han. '31, 5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass., Sec­retary. 
* 

BUFFALO Robert Moore, '30, 2574 Main St., Presi­dent. Rn»-crt Mcnser. '34. The Amherst Bee Co., Main & Rock Sts., Williamsville, 
N. Y., Secretary. 
Three splendiforous affairs brought together Buffalo alumni and Buffalo students during the past summer. Two of the sessions were held at Alhambra-on-the-Lake and were feat­ured by dancing and various enter­tainment. The third was a picnic at Stella's Grove on July 13, ^v^th free beer and free lunch predominating. The beer was furnished through the courtesy of JOHN UEBBING. 
BOB MEASER, active secretary of the active club, was a prime mover in promoting the get-to-^ethers. Alumni Office note: the policy of bringing in the students for club functions is ideal. Congratulations! And keep it up! 
CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-Ill.) 
William L. Travis, '27, 803 Lloyd Bide., 
Hammond, Ind.. President. Fred J. Sol-
man, Jr., *28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, 
Ind., Secretary. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) 
Clare L. Touhcy, '26, 601-02 National Sav­
ings Bank Bids., Albany. N. Y., President. 
Edward J. Eckert, *33. 5 Lawnridee Ave. 
Albany, N. Y.. Secretary. 
The Holy Cross Brothers who have just taken over Vincentian Institute in Albany, New York, were the guests recently at a reception dinner spon­sored by the local club. CLARE TUOHEY, president of the dub, made the arrangements. 
* CHICAGO John W. Scallan, '25, 79 E. Adams St . President. AI C. Stepan, '31. 365 E. Illi­nois St., Secretary. 
The annual golf tournament was the summer's chief club activity in Chicago. President JACK SCAL­LAN appointed TOM DONOVAN as chairman of the party and as committee members the following: GEORGE DAILEY, BERT METZ­GER, BILL REDMOND, GEORGE 
MCLAUGHLIN, JOE EIGALI and TY BULGER. The Maywood Country Club was the place and the members and their guests teed off between 12:00 an 2:00 o'clock. Dinner, prizes and entertain­ment were on the docket for 7 o'clock. Incidentally, the date was Thursday, July 25. 
An interesting line-up of speakers for club luncheons in September was made known early in the month by PAT CROWLEY, general chairman of luncheons. Warren Brown, sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, was scheduled for Septem­ber 10; George Donoghue, superinten­dent of the Chicago Consolidated Park System, for September 17; and Wilbert Crowley, assistant state's attorney on September 24. The lunch­eons are being held each Tuesday in the Ivory Room at Mandel Brothers store. 
JEROME J. CROWLEY and RICH­ARD PHELAN were the luncheon committeemen for September. 
CINCINNATI Albert Castellini, '24. 1001 Atlas Bfdg.. President. George Aug. '33. 4335 Bidge­view Ave.. Secretary. July 22. The Cincinnati Club staged a BILLY SULLIVAN Day at the Ball Park on July 21, and presented Billy with a traveling bag before some sixteen thousand spectators. The only other activities planned by the Club for the summer months are a picnic and a soft-ball game against a first 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October. 1935 
rate team composed of a group of young business men. ALBEET D. CASTELLINI, President. 
* 
CLEVELAND Clayton Leroux, '27. 3356 Daleford Road, Cleveland Hcts,, Ohio. President. Otis •Winchester. '29, 2968 Meadowbrook Blvd., Cleveland Hgts., Ohio, Secretary. August 26. We held our annual golf tourna­ment August 1 at Eidgewood Country Club. There were quite a few in attendance, both at the tournament and at the banquet in the evening. DICK McMONIGLE won the club trophy with a 74. We don't know whether he used his own clubs or not. BOB LEONARD won the student's trophy donated by Halle Bros. AL GRISANTI was a hot favorite for the booby prize but he didn't show up. LAEEY GAERTNEE won the great trophy donated by EAY MILLER. JOE SWEENY was the master of ceremonies and he did quite well with the sound system. 
LAEEY KEAL did a splendid job in promoting this party and all thanks are due him and his com­mittee. 
JOHNNY BELJON ^^^ll be visiting you soon for a wedding ceremony in the Log Chapel. 

HARRY BLACK is the custodian of all the CCC money and has been attending quite a few of the func­tions. 
RAY O'MALLEY is now connected with Muzak Corporation and going great gims. 
JACK COLLINS is one of the latest lawyers in the town, having passed his bar examination in Jime. 
BILL VAN ROOY, JIM CALLA­HAN and CHUCK ROHR spent a pleasant week in the wilds of Canada. 
GAYLORD HAAS is the proud father of a baby boy. 
JOE GAVIN was a little dis­appointed when his wife presented him with a baby girl but he was determined to make up for it and they named the baby Patricia so he could call her Pat. 
Father JIM MORAN is having a great time down in Lowellville trying to get the people to church and run­ning a bazaar on the side. 
TOM LEONARD has left Cleve­land and is situated in Hammond, Indiana. 
BILL KNAPP has also left our midst and is located in Homing, New York. 
CLIVE CAREY has just been pro­moted to advertising manager for the 
B. R. Baker Company here in Cleve­land. 
Hoping that we may have the pleas­ure of your presence at some of our activities this Fall, I remain 
OTIS S. WINCHESTER, Secretary. 
This is just part of the large crotod tvhich attended the picnic of the Peoria Club on June 2. Boxing bouts and other events provided the enter­tainment. 
July 8. 
You might be interested to know that we have chosen our board of governors for the coming year, and that we are off to a flying start on ac­ti\'itie3 also. Et. Eev. Msgr. MAUEICE GRIFFIN has been elected by the board to be Honorary President. He is of the class of 1904 and has been closely associated with Notre Dame since the time of his graduation. He was recently chosen by the bishops of Ohio to battle for the parochial aid bill that was pending in the state legislature and to say that he did a good job of it would be putting it mildly. Rev. M. L. MORIARTY was again chosen chaplain of the club. He has had his hands full lately with the Catholic Charities of the diocese of Cleveland but he does manage to show up for some of the meetings and activities. GEORGE BELTING, '34, was chosen as membership secretary for the coming year. 

The board of governors chosen, are as follows: JOSEPH H. THOMP­SON, '21, Chairman. Ever since Joe has been in Cleveland he has been as­sociated ^\•ith some bank or other and at present he is the chief business getter of the National City Bank, one of the few that weathered the bank moratorium. 
JIM DEVITT, '13, is the ne.xt mem­ber of the board and is at present the chief assistant to the county surveyor and has a nice future in politics in this town of ours. 
GEORGE HAHN, '23, is another member of the board. He has been so busy making blankets for the cold blooded people of this and other com­munities that we have not seen much of him around at the meetings, but he is there when he is needed and has done much to push the club along the right path. 
DAN CAMMOH, '25, is another member of the group and is quite ac­tive in all affairs. Even so he has been busy making a name for himself in the municipal court as one of the city prosecutors and here is more luck to you Dan. 
JOE SWEENY, '27, is the last of the new members of the group but even if he is last, he is not the least. Joe has been'so busy building up a law business in one of the better law offices in town that he also has not been around much, but we are hoping that we will see him often in the near future. 
The other members of the board are: BILLY RYAN, GAY HAAS, JERRY REIDY, and PIERCE O'CONNOR, last year's officers. 
The ftrst thing that we have tried to do is clear up a little of the fog that exists between our own organiza­tion and the Campus Club. The offi­cers of both clubs met and later we met with a representative group of the student body. We have managed to clear things up quite a bit and right now Jerry Eeidy is helping them with plans for a summer dance to be held July 19 at the Alpine Shore Club. 
Nick Euffing has had his committee for incorporating the club going strong and within a few weeks we ex­pect to get our papers and we will then be officially "Inc." The fellows on this committee include, FEANK CULL who, I think, first suggested the idea, MARTY EIJJI, CHUCK KAISER, JOHN BUTLER, and AL GRISANTL 
We had a stag party at Leisy's brewery June 27. There were about 130 fellows of the club and student body present at the party and the success of it was due entirely to the good work of LOU STETTLEE, CHUCK MOONEY, JEEEY MIL­LEE, PAT CANNY, DICK MA­HONY, BOB COLGAN and HOAVIE MILLEE. But I think that when it comes to being chef, and the best one at that, all honors go to Lou Stettler. 
PIERCE O'CONNOR and DUTCH O'DAY have recently been dismissed from the hospital after minor opera­tions. No serious troubles but we are glad that they are out and around. 

PAUL CHARLETON is the latest member to be married. 
PAT CANNY has gotten himself into such a lather over the race horses that he is on a diet of hydrochloric acid. JOHN BEGLEY is back in town after his stay in Buffalo, but we do not know how long he \vill be here. 
FRANK GANNON is at St. John's hospital interning since his gradua­tion from medical school at St. Louis. 
MAURICE WELSH was married last Saturday to Miss Paskert. They Avill live in Akron. 
CHARLI E ROHR'S restaurant boasts a new front and it is the talk of the avenue. JOHN QUINN is training his two week old son in the rudiments of being a successful sports manager. DK. FRANK GUARN­lERI has just finished his internship at St. Ann's and is going into private practice in Warren, Ohio. Somehow or other DAN SAMMON succeeded JOE DALEY around to the last party. 
OTIS S. WINCHESTER Secretary. 

, CONNECTICUT VALLEY Thomas E. Ferguson, '26, 37 Windsor St., Thompsonville, Conn., President. Francis 
D. Ahem, '29, 1 Webster St., Hartford, Conn., Secretary. It may interest you to know that DR. DAVID MOLUMPHY, one of the 
real old-timers of "Notre Dame", recently married. 
The engagement of RICHARD LACEY to Dorothy Bray of Hartford was recently announced. 
As you realize, Jim, Club activities during the summer months are very quiet, which accounts for your not hearing from me more often of late. 
FRANK AHERN, Secretary. 

DALLAS James P. Swift, "24, 1202 Southwestern Life BIdK.. Dallas. President. Francis A. McCulIouKh, '30, 917 First National Bank BIdg., Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON Amos Clay, '15, Union Trust BIdg., Day­ton, President. Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 210 Lexincton Ave., Dayton, Secretary. 
DENVER Robert Dick, '29, 930 Grant St., President Harry Lawrence, '29, 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. , 
* 

DES MOINES James C. Shaw, '22, 307 Equitable Bldg.. President. P. M. Wonderlin, '29, 302 Hubbell Bldg., Secretary. 
DETROIT Willard Crotty, '29, S30 Calvert Ave., Pres­ident. Robert Bats', '30, 29G1 Taylor Ave., Secretary. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA James D, Haj'cs, '17, 4612 Morgan Drive. Chevy Chase, Md.. President. J. Thomas Carver. *32. 1210 Perry St.. N. E.. Wash­ington. D. C., Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA Thomas A. Cannon, *33, 401 Wysor Bldg.. Muncie, Ind.. President. Alvis E. GranBer, ex. *31, G17 S. Jefferson St.. Hartford City. Ind.. Secretary. 
• 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Leo R. Mclntjre, '28, Bethlehem, Presi­dent. Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27, New Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Dcpt., Palmerton, Secretary. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA Richard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times, President. Thomas Barber, '24, 41G New­man St.. S2cretary. 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connecticut) James Murphy, '22, 611 Security Bldg.. Bridgeport, Conn.. President. Joseph E. Russo, '32, 166 Hough Ave., Bridgeport. Conn., Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA Donnelly P. McDonald. '12, Peoples Trust & Savings Co., President. Ed\vard S. Sul­liv.in, '24, 125 E. Suttenlield St., Secretary. August 29. Relative to the memorandum cover­ing the 1935 graduates to be added to the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne roster, I have the following information to impart: 
PAUL W. STAUB, whose home address is 352 E. Washington Boule­vard, is working in Detroit, Michigan for the Crucible Steel Company of America, 3245 Hubbard Street. He resides at the Fisher Y.M.C.A. 
JOHN H. LOGAN, Jr., 2902 Hoag­land Avenue, will return to Notre Dame this Fall to work for a Bache­lor of Law degree. At present, he is working here for the Belmont Prod­ucts Company. 
EDWARD R. BIGGINS, of 2816 Hoagland Avenue, is better known as 
E. Richard, so it might be well to change your mailing list to agree. He is working as chemist for the Norrth­em Indiana Public Service Company (Gas Company), and is located here. 
In lieu of the above, E. RICHARD BIGGINS is the only name that shall be added to our roster. 
Since PAUL STAUB is in Detroit, it would be very nice if you were to notify the Secretary of the Detroit Club to contact him. I am sure Paul will appreciate it. 
ED SULLIVAN. 

September 5. The following report is rather de­layed but, as it contains information in which you are interested, I am sending it along and you may dispose of it as you see fit. On Saturday evening, June 9, 1935, the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, Indiana united with the executive offi­cers of the local C.Y.O., to honor Coach John P. Nicholson and mem­bers of the Notre Dame track team accompanying him to Fort Wayne with a dinner in the Garden Room of the Catholic Community Center. 
His Excellency BISHOP NOLL graced the occasion with his presence. HARRY HOGAN, '04, President of the C.Y.O., presided. Coach John Nicholson, DONNELLY P. McDON-ALD, '12, Financial Secretary of the C.Y.O., JOHN W. EGGEMAN, '00, and his son, ROBERT EGGEMAN, '30, were seated at the speakers' table. Each was called upon for a few re­marks. ROBERT LAUER, '33, Pres­ident of the Fort Wayne Club at Notre Dame in 1934-35, was also called upon. 
Following the dinner, a meeting of the Notre Dame Club was held. Presi­dent ROBERT EGGEMAN reported on the activities of the past year. The election of officers followed. DON­NELLY P. MCDONALD was chosen President, PAUL SAGSTETTER was made Vice-President, MAURICE DE­WALD drew the Treasurer's position, and I was elected Secretary. HARRY HOGAN, THOMAS McKIERNAN and ARTHUR MILLER were chosen to constitute the Board of Governors for the ensuing year. 
A committee composed of THOMAS McKIERNAN, FRANCIS HOGAN, ARTHUR MILLER and ROBERT EGGEMAN was appointed to revise the constitution of the local club. Those in attendance other than thos e already mentioned were FRANK METRAILER, GEORGE GORDON, FRED SCHOPPMAN, GERALD MORSCHES, MARTIN TORBORG, ROBERT MILLER, WILLIAM KANE and PAUL SHRANZ. 
I am sorry to report that EDWARD 
T. GILILARTIN, 1896, former Presi­dent of the local club, and President of the Gilmartin Lumber Company of Fort Wayne, Indiana, died last July. Among those who survive is a broth­er, FRANCIS J., 1901, also a member of our club. 
EDW. S. SULLIVAN, Secretary. 
* 

GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) Robert O'Callaghan. ex. '16, Gogebic Na­tional Bank. Ironwood, President. Fran­cis J. Vukovich. '35, Ridge St., Iron­wood, Mich., Secretary. On September 9 the Notre Dame Club of the Gogebic Range held its annual meeting at the Curry Hotel, Ironwood, Michigan. This meeting had a two fold purpose, that of elec­tion for new officers and the introduc­tion of ED SIMONICH to the mem­bers of the club. The newly elected officers are: President, ROBERT O'CALLAG­HAN, '14-'16, Ironwood; Vice Presi­dent, JOSEPH GILL, '32, Wakefield; Secretary and Treasurer, FR.A.NK VUKOVICH, '35, Ironwood. These new officers replaced the following: President, VICTOR LEMMER, '26, Ironwood; Vice President, THOMAS McKEVITT, '34, Ironwood; Secre­tary, HAROLD CANNON, '10-'13, Ironwood; Treasurer, FRAN K VUKOVICH, '35, Ironwood. As yet the newly elected officers have not meet to discuss new busi­ness, but that will be taken care of in the near future. FRANK VUKOVICH, Secretary. 
The Gogebic visit naturally accom­panied the Hiawathaland. In Iron­wood I found that VIC LEMMER and "FELIX" Cannon had made a lot of splendid arrangements. Met JOHN and MRS. LEMMER, whose flight from Escanaba still didn't let them escape the Armstrongs. Had a de­lightful visit with MARTIN GILLEN, who received his LL.D. in June, and who has a beautiful summer home at Land-O'-Lakes. Addressed the com­
The Notre Dame Alu m n us October, 1935 
bined Eotary-Kiwanis luncheon in Ironwood, and that evening at a magnificent summer hotel at Stickley enjoyed a meeting of the Club. Vic and Mrs. henamer, John and Mrs. Lemmer, Joe Gill, his father, and a young lady guest, and SAVINO CAVENDER and his uncle Savino Bonino, Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT O'CALLAHAN, FRANK VUKO ­
VICH, and JAMES JONES, -ivere present. 
Bain Gumming, organist who played a Notre Dame radio program on Universal Notre Dame night, gave a delightful organ program for us afterward in the lodge. 
Both Hiawathaland and the Goge­bic country can confidently look for personal visits again. 
JIM ARMSTRONG. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
George E. Ludwie, *25, 328 Glenhaven 
Ave., N. W., President. Raymond J. Bo­
nini, '27, 607 Atwood, N. B., Secretary. 
•\Vhen ED FENNELL was down for the Lay Retreat this past summer, he left the welcome news that the Grand Rapids club had begun holding luncheons each Wednesday at 12:15 in the Chamber of Commerce cafe­teria. One of the guests at a luncheon in August was Tourist ARMSTRONG who with Mrs. Armstrong was re­turning, via Grand Rapids and the GEORGE LUDWIGS, from a com­bined business-vacation trip to the Northlands of Michigan. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Harold L. Londo. '24. City EnBineers' Of­
ficc. City Hall, President. Lev-i A. Geni­
csse, '24, 510 Minahan Bids.. Secretnry. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St, Presi­dent. Marc A. Fiehrer, '27. 701 Rentsch­ler Bid::., Secretarj-. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Norman Bartholomew, 'ts. 225 Cleveland 
Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich., President. 
Michael S. Corry, *27. 837 'Terrace Ave., 
Marinette. "Wis., Secretarj-. 
The Alumni Secretary enjoyed a trip through Hiawathaland, the first visit to that interesting Club, in early August. Being summer, no meeting in the scattered area was planed. But at Marinette and Menominee, on a quick stop I saw JOE and HENRY LATJERMAN and TOM PLOUFF. 
I chased GERALD . CLEARY through the streets of Escanaba, and even into the P. 0., where Mrs. Cleary occupies the Postmaster's chair, but he escaped me, and I had • to push on to the North, where I attended the dedication of the me­morial park of GEORGE GIPP on Aug. 3. In Hancock I enjoyed a visit with the RUPPE family, whose N.D. background goes back to the '80s, when the elder Mr. Ruppe was a student here. Joe and Art were home (Bob is at Notre Dame). And a younger brother, Dick, was there, to­gether ^vith Mr. and Mrs. Ruppe and Joe's wife and infant son. 
In Calumet, an old secretarial cus­tom was carried out by imposing on the hospitality of DOMINIC VAIRO and his parents and sister, for a de­lightful dinner preceding the dedica­tion in Laurium. JOHN BRENNAN and his younger brother PAT, from L'Anse, came in as did LARRY DAN­BOM who ought to be heard from this Fall on the squad. Stopped at Brennan's beautiful home in L'Anse for a few minutes the following day and met his parents. 
Lunched ivith NORMAN BAE­THOLMEW and NED DXJNDON, the latter abandoning clamoring duties as prosecuting attorney for the lunch hour. 
It's a great Club in its territory, its personnel and its possibilities. With new students entering this Fall, several boys like STEVE CONDON and LARRY DANBOM carrying on the football traditions, it ought to keep right on with its present prog­ress. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter, '14 1702 Stuart A\e.. Hous­ton, President. Thomas F. Green Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS Thomas Jones, '04. 211 E. McCarty St, President Michael K. Fox, '34, 3942 N. Penn St., Secretary. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Byrne M. Daly, 207 Ellery Ave.. President 
Lester Wisda, '31, 1016 E. Ganson St. 
Secretary'. 
* 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Eohcrt Duffy, '31. 213 N. Hickory. Presi­
dent Edward H. Kins, 301 Ruby St. 
Secretary. 
Fried chicken and "otherwise", according to ED KING'S colorful announcement, provided a happy afternoon for the Joliet Club at its picnic on August 14. Unfortunately, Registrar RIORDAN, the star of an earlier Joliet production, couldn't play a return engagement on the day specified. 
* 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) Robert Tyler. '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd., K-in­sas City. Mo.. President Charles E. M^y­er. '29. 420 B. Armour Blvd.. Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. The Club had a fine turnout for its July get-together at Quivera Country Club—golf, swimming, Softball, beer, sandwiches, etc It was intended to get the present students together with the alumni. The latter were agree­ably surprised to find almost 25 stu­dents at the Country Club. 
We've resumed our monthly limch­eons and have planned a big student-alumni affair for September 2. 
GEORGE McCLINEY, '28, has annoimced his engagement. 
FRANK lUEN, '32, was married at the Log Chapel, August 28. 
ED SEITEK, '30, has also contract­ed for matrimonial bliss. He married Miss Mildred Amett on August 24. 
HENRY MASSMAN, '28, spends much of his time at Ft. Peck, Mon­tana, completing Government con­tracts, and brings word that JOE O'DOWD, '28 and his four month bride are happy as ever. 
DAN FOLEY, '23, and WHITIE MURRY, '24, spend all their spare time on the golf links, and those two really know the game. 
The Club enjoyed seeing JOHN WHITMAN, University law librarian and professor, at one of its summer luncheons. He was the guest of JOHNNY DUGAN, '27, shortly after commencement. 
Our Club President, BOB TYLER, '29, has been vacationing in Califor­nia. It was good to hear something of LARRY MOORE, '29, and BILL SIDENFADEN, '29, and TIM MON­YHAN, '30, whom BOB visited on his return, in Rawlins, Wyoming. 
MAURICE CARROLL, '19, has just been promoted to Director of Western Missouri District of the Federal Housing Administration, and there's a man that can really handle the job. 
FRANK MEYER, '24, spent a few weeks fishing in northern Minnesota. 
FRANK TYLER, '23, has a new son—^B. F., Jr. 
FRED MANCUSO, '21, is busy taking care of things while his boss JIM AYLWARD, Democratic State Chairman, is on his vacation. 
JIM HIGGINS, '32, is now located in Tulsa—as Branch Manager for Gustin Bacon Mfg. Co. 
JOE O'BRYAN, '29, is one pros­perous rancher. He doesn't think meat is high enough, but won't eat it himself. We (1929 contingent—TY­LER, BRAY, MEYER) see a lot of him and spend a week-end on his ranch in southeastern Kansas now and then. 
HIENIE BURDICK, '08, is always busy saturating Missouri and Kansas with Budweiser beer. He is their Dis­trict Manager,—^yet he always finds time to talk about his old pal, COP­PER LYNCH. 
CHARLES MEYER, 
Secretary. 
KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert, '30, U. of ^Vichita. Wch­
ita, Kinsas. President Dan Wclchons, '30, 
623 Elm St , Ottawa, Kansas, Secretary. 
KENTUCKY 
Eugene J. Stcuerle. '25, 1439 Willow Avi.. lx>uis\*ille. President John Bannon, '32. 2011 Sherwood. Louisville. Secretary. 

LAPORTE, INDIANA 
A. Gordon Taylor, *18, 1507 Indiana Ave., President. Norman Duke, '33, 304 Niles St., Secretary. 
JOE BOLAND was the principal speaker at the dinner, held in the Rumely Hotel, which the Notre Dame Club sponsored on September 4 to honor the coaches who participated in the one-day football school and clinic organized by the LaPorte Herald-Ar­gus. Seventy -five were present, according to the report sent over by NORM DUKE. Mayor AL SMITH of LaPorte was one of the other speakers and GORDON TAYLOR was toastmaster. 
Norm said that the club was mak­ing plans for a general Communion for club members and local students on Sunday, September 15, just before the students returned to the Univer­sity. 
LOS ANGELES 
Tliomas Heam, '15, 1120 Pacific Finance Bid?., President. Douglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St., New Or­leans, La.. President. Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Or­leans, La., Secretary. 
MANILA 
Eduardo Roxas. '33. 719 Echagrue, Manila, President. Leopoldo Brias, Manila, Sec­retary. 
MEMPHIS 
Walter J. Fransioli. Jr., 'Zi. 218 N. Mc­Lean Blvd.. President. Theon Dohosne, *27, 1072 S. Wellington St.. Secretary. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes. '16. 1910 Oakland St., LansinjT. President- J. Harvey Gauthier, *30, Bark River, Michigan, Secretary. 
* 

MILWAUKEE 
Harold Watson. '25. 735 N. Water St. President. Jonh E. Clauder, '34, 1219 W. Vlict St., Secretary. 
August 5. 

Glad to tell you that the golf tour­nament and picnic went over very nicely. Had a nice turn-out and even though it rained a bit the boys play­ed on and on. Am not so sure, how­ever, just what the boys liked best, the golf or the beer and food. 
Our next event will be a party at the Westmoor country Club, which has all been arranged by ED ROGERS, who, it is rumored has signed up for Ethiopian air service. Guess these Notre Dame Men like to fight. 
BUD McNICHOLS, Chicago, 111., will be up to-day and ^vill stay for some time. Probably will be the last time I will see him until the good old football games start. He is going from here to Kentucky to work ^vith JACK PURDY, '34, until classes start. 
Having been plugging for ELMER LAYDEN in this contest being run off by the Chicago Tribune, but I guess it hasn't done much good. 
No other news at the present time. If you know of anyone coming up this way, tell them to stop in and see me. 
JOHN E. CLAUDER, Secretary. 

MONTANA 
Earl W. Brown, '93, 320 Power St.. Hele­na. President. James B. O'FIynn, '11. Great Falls. Seretary. 
* 

NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams, Jr.. '29, 106 Gallatin Road, Secretary. 
* NEW JERSEY 
Thomas Purcell. '27, 32 N. 16th St.. East Orange, President. Raymond A. GeiKer, '32, 446 Eastern Parkway, Irvington, Sec­retary. 
CITY OF NEW YORK 
Edward T. 'HRhe, '24. 32 Franklin St., New York City. President. J. Norbcrt Gelson, Jr., '26, 1201 Troy .\ve., Brooklyn, Secretary. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Robert P. Sullivan. '33, 102 Walnut St., San Francisco. Calif.. President. W. Breen, McDonald. '17. 839 Howard St., San Fran­cisco. Calif., Secretary. 
* 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15. Hosier Real­ty Bids.. Columbus, President. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32. 1611 S. Carson, Tul­sa, President. Norbert F. Skelly, '25. University Club, Tulsa. Secretary. 
OREGON 
Frank T. Collier. 'OS. 721 Ycon Bids.. Portland. President. William C. Schmitt, '10, Consolidated Equipment Co., Portland, Secretarj-. 
3|C 

PARIS 
Louis P. Harl. '16. Paris Office. New York, Herald-Tribune. Paris. France. President. 
PEORIA 
Ernest C. Hechinser. '32, 301 Barker St, President. Al Gury, Jr., '28. 612 Albany Ave., Secretary. 
Newspaper clippings brought fur­ther word of the picnic which the Peoria Club held on June 23 at Dr. 
C. V. Ward's farm, near Peoria. Twelve rounds of amateur boxing, produced by the boxing team from Spalding Institute, Peoria, as well as other sports events, provided a full Sunday afternoon, even though the "honored guest and principal speak­er" failed to show up. The following committee handled the picnic arrange­ments: LAWRENCE PRESCOTT, AL GURY, ERNIE HECHINGER and AL WELZENBACH. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Gerard DcKen. '10 6734 N. 18th St.. Pres­ident Wm. E. Cooney, '31, 5725 McMa­hon Ave., Secretary. 
August 21. 

First, thanks for the bulletin. I was very sorry to learn of the death of Father Maloney, and wish you would express to the Congregation the sympathy of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia. 
The past year was the most active one the alumni club here ever had, and our new President 6ERAKD DEGEN has been developing plenty of good ideas for the comsg year. Among activities for last year, our efforts to build a treasury were fairly successful by holding drawings for tickets to the N.D.-Army game and the N.D.-Temple basketball game. The Christmas Dance, while not a money-making event, brought out more alumni than we ever saw at one of our dances before. On Notre Dame Night we had 45 present at a dinner held at the Penn Athletic Club which broke all previous records. On the spiritual side we held two Communion Sundays—Sunday nearest All-Souls Day and the Sunday nearest Rockne's anniversary^and we brought out 18 club members to join the retreat at Malvern which JOHN NEESON captained. 
We will hold our first meeting about the end of September, so I hope to get some news for you at that time, or before. 
BILL COONEY. 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. John Hilkert, '22, Box 62, President Juhus J. Danch, '25, 343 N. 20th Ave. Secretary. 
RHODE ISLAND 
Leo R. McAloon. '30. 260 Fawtucket Ave. Paivtucket. President John P. UeKier­nan. '34. 206 Lockwood Ave.. Providence. Secretary. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
James Jones. '22. Central Trust Bldg.. President Prank Norton. '32, 80 Beck­
•with Terrace. Secretary. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Raymond C. Marelli. '27, 1312 Youns St, Rockford, 111., President. Fhuids W. Howland, '25, 902 N. Main St, Rockford. 111.. Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Miehigu) 
Thom.is P. Van Aarle. '21. Standard Oil Co.. Sasinaw. Mich.. President William 
C. Hurley. '25. 117 Cherry St. Saginaw, Mich. Secretary. 
* SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann, Jr., '25, 107 Thel­ma Drive, President Edward G. Conroy, '30, 204 E. Craie PI., Secretary. 
SIOUX CITY, IOWA 
Vincent F. Harrington, *25, Continental Mortgage Co.. President 
SPRINGFIELD ILLINOIS 
Michael F. Kinney, *31, State House. Pres­ident. John Troy, ex. '28, 800 S. Ninth St.. Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS 
Robert Hellrung. "30. 306 N. Grand Blvd, President David J. Reilley, Jr.. '30, 107 Avundell PI., Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Francis Jones. '29. 802 I.O.OJ. Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.. President Louis Chap-Icau. '30. Union Trust Bldg.. South Bend. Ind.. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1935 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Ward L. Jjesby. '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive, Syracuse, President. Francis J. Cashier, ex. *34, 111 Wendell Ave., Syracuse, Sec­retary. 
* 

TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St., Pres­ident. Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
* 

TOLEDO Norbert Scharf, '26 Toledo Edison Co.. President. Joseph L. Wetli, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
* 

TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) Richard B. Swift, '20, Kahl BIdg., Daven­port, Iowa, President. Arthur L. Himbcrt, '32, 527 39th St., Rock Island, III., Sec­retary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) William Hogan. '32, 62 Mary St.. Bing­hamton, N. Y., President William Yeager, '34, 18 Vine St., Binghamton, New York, Secretary. 
* 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, 15 S. Fifth St., Minneapolis, Minn., President. John D. Yelland, '30, 3221 Holmes Ave., S., Min­neapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
UTAH Raymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, President. Cyril Harbecke, '19. 64 F. St., Salt Lake City. Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Gas & Electric Bldg., President. Joseph W. Ful­lem, '31, 1621 Neilson St., Secretary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue University, Laf­ayette, Ind.. President. Peter Yogi. Sec­
retary. 
* 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson. '28, 32 Farmington Av e President. James M. Monaghan, '27, 44 A>-er St., Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Francis J. Wilson, '2S, 1217 Melvem, Pittsburgh. President. Edward J. O'Brien, Jr., '34, 446 Wood St.. Pittsburgh. Sec­retary. 
September 14 

There isn't much to offer by way of news 01 the club. As has been the case in the past, the Summer has meant greatly reduced attendance at the luncheons. JACK SHEEDY, DR. LEO O'DONNELL, ED BYRNES, BILL STEITZ, JOHN RYAN, VINCE BURKE, and AL DIEBOLD were very regular in attendance. 
President FRITZ WILSON missed not one session. CHICK SHEEDY al­ways dropped in except for the sev­eral weeks while he was in Califor­nia. He drove out and back—^made the return trip in three days; so he wasn't particularly interested in the scenery. 
J. Sheedy and Wilson spent time a-plenty on the local golf courses and still they get no better. Likewise Al Diebold and Bill Steitz. They ex­pected PAT CANNY to stop here for a few holes; but word of the prow­ess of the Pittsburgh putter-wielders got to Cleveland and Pat stayed there. (P.S. That's Wilson's story, anyhow.) 
DR. O'DONNELL is still the best 
N. D. booster in the neighborhood. Sometime I'd like to know just how many boys the good Doctor has sent to Notre Dame. Quite a fancy num­ber, I'd say; and I nominate him for many, many orchids. 
That's about all I have to say, Jim, except that I have enjoyed a bit of success since I wrote last. I've been approved by the New York Stock Ex­change as a member of the Pitts­burgh branch of Hemphill-Noyes and Company. It's verj' pleasant work, and I'm hoping to go places. 

We've moved our luncheons again. Until last Thursday we met at the Roosevelt Hotel; but have moved to the Commodore at Seventh and Lib­ertj' Avenues. The time is the same —every Thursday at noon. 
ED O'BRIEN, Secretary. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON John J. Dcmpsey. '95. Dempsey Lumber Co.. Tacoma. President. Robert I. Pigott. 
•32, 925 12th Ave.. N.. Seattle. Secretary. 

WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citizens-Peoples Trust Co.. ^\^lceling. President. George Sargus. '28. 2111 Belmont. Bellairo. Ohio. Secretary. 
* 

YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran. '29. 1348 Quinn. President. Charles Cushwa. '31. 463 Madera Ave.. Secretarj'. 
* 

WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick. C.S.C., St. Mary's College. Notre Dame, Ind.. President. Sis­ter IL Angelice. B.V.M., Secretary. 
The Women's Club met for its annual business session on Saturday, July 13, in the University Library. Sister M. Frederick, C.S.C, president, presided. 
The report of the Permanent Reso­lutions committee, headed by Sister 
M. Eleanore, C.S.C, extended the sympathy of the club to the Univer­sity in the death of the late Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, former president; to St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, in the death of Mother 
M. Pauline, C.S.C, for many years president; and it offered felicitations to Rev. J. F. O'Hara, C.S.C, presi­dent of Notre Dame, on his continu­ing success in ofBce. 
The report of the Committee on Literature, also headed by Sister Eleanore, viewed with optimism the present status of Catholic American literature and especially commended the poetry magazine Spirit, organ of the Catholic Poetry Society. It also urged club members to further the cause of Catholic reading and to encourage Catholic Study clubs. 
The report of the Committee on Data for the Alumnae Directory re­vealed that distinct progress has been made toward publishing a directory and that it should appear within the near future. 
The Bibliography Committee, head­ed by Sister Joan of Arc, O.S.F., reported on its constant work in supplying suitable book reviews for the ALUMNUS during the 1934-35 year. 
Sister St. Flavia, S.S.J., chairman of last year's Social Committee, read a delightful report on the entertain­ment given on July 21, 1934 at Notre Dame. And, under the heading of "old business" Sister Teresa Aloyse, S.P., was appointed to fill the vacancy of chairman of the Committee on Data for the Alumnae Directory. 

"New business" brought forward the motion that each Mother House donate t\vo dollars towards publica­tion of the new directory, as a supple­ment to the advertising. It was moved and seconded to amend the motion by adding: "and the rest of the expense be defrayed through dignified adver­tising." The amendment was carried and the amended motion was carried. The suggestion as to advertising in the directory had been brought for­ward by J. E. Armstrong, alumni secretary, and had been e.xplained to the meeting by Sister Frederick, pres­ident. 
New officers wer e elected as follows: Sister M. Hilda Mary, R.S.M., Third Vice-President; Sister 
M. Leonella, O.P., Fourth Vice-Presi­dent; Sister M. Angelice, B.V.M., Secretary. 
The annual entertainment of the club was held in Washington Hall on Saturday, July 20. Later in the month all the Sisters attending Summer School were guests of the University at a picnic held along the Lake in the rear of Morrissey and Lyons Halls. 
Members of the Women's Club will give a special welcome to the news that Sister Maria Berchmans, C.S.C, '24, has been awarded the Jubilee Medal by King George of Great Brit­ain for her years of service in the Halifax schools. 
Job Openings 

Young chemical engineering grad­uates, preferably those with some knowledge of photography, are in­vited to apply for jobs in the sales department of a dry plate company in the Middle West. Further infor­mation from the Alumni OfiSce upon request. 
THE ALUMNI 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Announcement is made of the en­gagement of Miss Muriel F. Redmond to WILLIAM E. O'REILLY, '29. 
Announcement is made of the en­gagement of Geraldine Giroux to JOHN FLINN, '30. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Anne Margaret Hanna and HENRY J. FRAWLEY, '14, were married August 10, in Rochester, New York. 
Miss Elizabeth Kahl and VIVIAN OTTO FIGGE, os. '19, were married July 27, in Davenport, Iowa. 
Miss Dorothy Joan Loehfelm and DANIEL J. CARR, '23, were married August 5, in Greensburg, Pa. 
Miss Ann Baldwin Caswell and HOWARD W. KUEHL, ex. '27, were man-ied Sept. 7, in Milwaukee, Wis. 
Miss Josephine Mary Cain and JOHN E. GRUNING, '27, were mar­ried June 22, in Port Jefferson, New York. 
Miss Marie Albart and JOHN Mc-NELLIS, '27, were married July 6, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy Pauline Nevelle and JOHN F. OEHLHOFFEN, '27, were married July 20, in Quincy, 111. 
Miss Gertrude Ann Kennedy and JOHN M. PATTON, '27, were mar­ried August 27, in Ellsworth, Minn. 
Miss Alberta Sherman and PAUL 
A. BENITZ, '27, were married Sept. 26, in New York City. 
Miss Barbara McReynolds and CHARLES S. MURPHY, e-x. '28, were married June 8, in Los Angeles, Calif. 
Miss Gertrude Maiy Brown and JOSEPH F. BENDA, '28, were mar­ried July 24, in Wadena, Minn. 
Miss Mary O'Neil and MERVYN AGGLER, '28, were married last April, in Los Angeles, Calif. 
Miss Mabelle Dorothy Jennings and WILLIAM R. MURPHY, '28, were married July 30,^ in Brooklyn,'"New York. 
Miss Mary Agnes Harris and AN­DREW BOYLE, '28, were married June 22, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Josephine O'Donnell and Dr. GUY LORANGER, '28, were married last Jan. 9, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Anne Marie Barnes and WAL­TER A. DONNELLY, '29, were mar­ried July 17, in New York City. 
Miss Lilliam Florin and RUSSELL 
F. CHRISTE, '29, were married August 24, in Grosse Pointe Park, Michigan. 
Miss Harnett Day and JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, '29, wer e married August 30, in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Miss Mary Moore and RUSSEL C. KUEHL, '29, were married June 15, in South Bend. 
Miss Eleanor Roth and JOHN BELJON, '30, were married Sept. 4, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Lucile Hardman and LOUIS L. HASLEY, '30, were married June 19, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mis s Elizabeth Daschbach and WILLIAM H. GHSTDER, Jr., '31, were manned Sept. 2, in Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Bodkin and CLARENCE A. DURBIN, '31, were married August 3, in Warsaw, Ind. 
Miss Ruth B. Austin and PAUL P. GRANT, '31, were man-ied July 20, in Effingham, 111. 
DANIEL 0. CL.4RK, '31, was mar­ried August 1, in South Bend, Ind. 
3Uss Eileen May Lee and THOMAS 
A. ROSSIE, ex. '32, were married June 18, in New York Citj-. 
Miss L e 0 n a Kochanowski and RICHARD FABRYCKI, '32, were man-ied August 31, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Irene Reuland and ALLEN P. McEACHERN, '32, were married August 3, in Oak Park, 111. 
Miss Traci A. Weimer and BER­NARD BRESSON, '32, were mai-ried August 14, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Gertrude Ackei-man and ROBERT E. LEE, '32, were married August 31, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Barbara Klimesh and ROY V. NOVAK, ex. '32, were married Sept. 14, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Nora Fariey and ROBERT J. GERHARZ, '32, were married July 10, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Florence M. Brett and HUGH 
E. BALL, '32, were married-August 
17, in Milwaukee, Wis. Miss Alice Wray Russell and PAUL 
J. JIURPHY, '32, were man-ied June 24, in Alamosa, Colo. 
Miss Sunshine Darrow and CARL 
F. MEYER, '32, were married August 17, in Cairo, 111. 
Miss Helene Grimm and CHARLES 
F. HAFRON, Jr., '33, were married August 3, in South Bend. 
Miss Jean AUgeier and GEORGE 
E. DeWALD, '33, were married Sep­tember 17, in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Miss Clare Straus and JOSEPH SHEEKETSKI, '33, were married June 5, in Detroit, Mich. 
Miss Theresa Fitzgerald and ERN­EST HABERKERN, '33, were mar­ried in June, in Springfield, Ohio. 
Miss Loretta Poynton and WIL­LIAM P. CARROLL, '33, were mar­ried June 8, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Elizabeth Rostiser and MICH­AEL COYLE, '34, were married Sept. 19, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Reba Mae Showalter and MORTON Z. DOUTHAT, '35, were married June 27, in Joplin, Mo. 
Miss Katherine M. Smith and CY­RUS L. FOOTE, '34, were married August 24, in South Bend. 
Miss Irene R. Fisher and ALBERT 
T. COSTELLO, ex. '35, were married in August, at Notre Dame. 
JOSEPH A. GARTLAND,, Jr., '27, was married on Sept. 18, in Boston, Mass. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. BREN­NAN, '20, announce the birth of a daughter, July 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. SHERWOOD DIX­ON, '20, announce the birth of Mary Margaret, August 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. BALFE, '20, announce the birth of Margaret Magdalene, July 22. 
Dr. and Mrs. M. J. THORNTON, '20, announce the birth of Suzanne, Sept. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. LEO C. GRAF, '23, anounce the birth of Carol Ann, June 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES D. HUR­LEY, '24, announce the birth of a son, in June. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. BARRY, '25, announce the birth of Thomas J., Jr., August 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE E. LUD­WIG, '25, announce the birth of Will­iam James, June 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. URBAN SIMON, '26, announce the birth of a daughter, July 8. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1935 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL M. BUTLER, '27, announce the birth of a daughter, September 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS T. AHERN, '27, anounce the birth of Judith Kathleen, August 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. Mc-CULLOUGH, '27, announce the birth of Mary, July 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES SHE­LANSKEY, '28, announce the birth of Charles Joseph, August 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. J. LUSSON, '28, announce the birth of Raymond, July 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE E. DOYLE, '30, announce the birth of George E., Ill, July 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. KELLY, '30, announce the birth of Christopher Robert, July 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. F. X. AMATO, '30, announce the birth of Francis Xavier, Jr., June 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES G. O'KEEF­FE, '30, announce the birth of James G., Ill, July 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. DANEHY, '33, announce the birth of Margaret, May 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL HOST, '33, announce the birth of Susan Ann, April 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALOYSIUS G. WEI­MER, '34, announce the birth of Aloysius George, II, Aug. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR WIEHLE, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, last April. 
Mr and Mrs. JOSEPH PETRITZ, '32, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Dolors, September 8. 
DEATHS 

Father FRANK E. DRUMMEY, C.S.C, '28, aged 35, died June 17, in Deming, New Mexico, afte r iive months' illness. He was bom in Mon­roe, Wis., Dec. 26, 1899. 
He entered Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame in August, 1919, when the late Right Rev. Bishop George J. Finnigan, C.S.C, began his duties as rector. In 1923, he entered St. Jos­ephs' novitiate at Notre Dame and in 1924 was admitted to Moreau Sem­inary at Notre Dame. Receiving a degree at the University of Notre Dame in 1928, he entered Holy Cross College in Washington. Upon com­pleting his theological studies at Catholic University in Washington, he was ordained to the priesthood in St. Edward's church in Austin, Texas, December 20, 1931. 
He leaves besides his mother, a sister. Sister M. Nazareth, C.S.C, of St. Mar}''s convent, Notre Dame, and two brothers, Ray and George Drum­mey, both of South Bend. The family moved to South Bend shortly after Father Drummey entere d Notre Dame. 

Funeral services were held at Notre. Dame and burial was in the Community Cemetery. 
WILLIAM J. AIcCULLOUGH, Dav­enport, Iowa, elected to the Alumni Association in 1929, died in Oska­loosa, Iowa, on August 15 after an illness of only a month. He was 79 yeai-s old. An outstanding Catholic, a loyal friend of Notre Dame and St. Mary's for many years, Mr. McCul­lough was the father of Dr. G. F. McCulIough, '03, and Harry M. Mc-CuUough, '20, both of Davenport. His wife, who survives him, as well as his tivo daughters, attended St. Mary's. In all, fifteen of the McCuUough fam­ily and its branches have attended the two schools. 
Mr. McCuUough was the founder of Loras Council, Knights of Colum­bus, in Davenport, and its First Grand Knight. He was the first State Deputy of the K. of C in Iowa and the first Master of the Fourth Degree 
K. of C. in the same state. He had also served as a member of the Su­preme Board of the K. of C. 
Most Rev. H. P. Rohlman, Bishop of Davenport, celebrated the Solemn Pontifical Mass for Mr. McCuUough on August 19. Representing the Uni­versity and the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities as.honorary pallbearers at the funeral w^ere Vance UWmeyer, club president, and Richard B. Swift, past club president. 
The ALUMNUS has just recently heard of the death, on May 19, 1933, in Eastland, Texas, of HOMER PLATTE BRELSFORD, A.B. '91, A.M., '95. 
EDWARD T. GILMARTIN, a stu­dent from 1893 to 1896, long a loyal member of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, Indiana and one of its former presidents, died in Fort Wayne in July. A brother, Francis 
J. Gilmartin, who was at Notre Dame in 1900-01, is among the survivors. 
DR. FRANK ALLPORT, LL.D., '06, noted Chicago eye and ear speci­alist, died in his villa near Nice, France, on August 2 at the age of 78 years. Dr. AUport had been in iU health since his retirement several years ago. 
HAROLD EEMPE, a student from 1900 to 1909, died on April 18, 1935, according to word which has reached the ALUMNUS since the June edi­tion. 
A complication of ailments, trace­able to his 18 months of service in France, resulted in the death on August 15 of JEROME WILDGEN, '14, Hoisington, Kansas. He is sur­vived by his wife, six children and four sisters. 
Jerome was past commander of the American Legion Post in Hoisington and a member of the Knights of Columbus. For all of his business career, he was associated with the Wildgen Lumber Company, Hoising­ton. 
After a lengthy ilhiess, RALEIGH STINE, who was at Notre Dame from 1916 to 1920, died at the Yountsville Veterans' Home, Younts­ville, California, on August 27. Bur­ial was in Palo Alto, Califoraia. 
Mike Siegler, '24, very thoughtfully sent word to the Alumni Office of the sudden death, on July 30, of ED­WARD P. WOLLENSAK, '24, of Rochester, New York. Mike heard the sad news when he was passing through Rochester recently. 
Just three weeks after his marriage to Sara J. Farmerie, ALBAN DEIB­EL, '27, was buried in Pittsburgh on August 18. Two of the ushers at his wedding were also pallbearers at his funeral. Al and his bride had been back from their wedding trip just three days when he was stricken with pneumonia. He died a day later. 
JOSEPH F. DONAHUE, JR., '36, son of Joseph F. Donahue, os.'09, and Mrs. Donahue of South Bend, died on September 2 in Independence, Iowa, as the result of an automobile acci­dent a few hours eariier. Returning with another South Bend boy, George Wilson, from their summer on a Nebraska ranch, Joe, Jr., was criti­cally injured when the Wilson car skidded on a slippery road and turned over into the ditch. George escaped with light injuries. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: ROBERT DEWEY, '32, upon the death of his father; LEO V. SCHIAVONE, '32, upon the death of his father; CHARLES M. LOUGH­REY, '33, upon the death of his mother; Prof. ROBERT L. GREENE upon the death of his wife; JOHN T. BALFE, '20, upon the death of his mother; DANIEL E. HILGARTNER, Jr., '17, upon the death of his moth­er; Dr. F. J. VURPILLAT, '20, upon the death of his wife; GEORGE SHUSTER, '15, upon the death of his father; HENRY R. FREY, '30, upon the death of his father; J. NOEBERT GELSON, Jr., '26, upon the death of his wife. 
PERSONALS 

Before 1880 "o". •n.omas F. Gaii«­her, Fitchbure, Moss. 
ISa n 1AJtI« Prof. Robert M. Anderson, 
lliSU-ieSa circUville, Ohio. 
1 RRR Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St.. lOOO Hamilton. Ohio. 
Back to the campus after 62 years! Such was the happy experience this summer ofGEOKGE RUDGE, Yoimgstown, Ohio, who was at Notre Dame as a student in 1872-73 and hadn't seen the University since. Young in spirit and activity, Mr. Eurge was here with a returning stu­dent of the present day. (And he'll be back again soon, we hope.) 
1887-1888 ^**^" ^ Heineman, Conners­ville. Indiana. Another most welcome Notre Dame visitor, on August 24, was D. J. Mc-KENDEY, '87, 7836 Dre-xel Avenue, Chicago. Mr. McKendry looked all over the campus with several mem­bers of his family, among them his niece and his granddaughter, and talked with some of his Notre Dame friends. 
1889 **' ^ Buike. 301 Camp St, New Or­leans, La. 
1890-1893 ^'""' !*• Chute, 7 University 
Are.. Minneapolis, Minn. 

IRQd Rnxh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 67th St., XOSt Jj^^ y^^y^ p.^_ 
189S Eustace CuUinan, Sr., 860 Phelan *""" ' Bids., San Francisco, Calif. 
1ft<)R William P. Bums, 327 Willard Are.. 
±aira MiAigan CilT, Ind. 
1897 ^^* ^' ^ MacXamara, St. Joseph's SaniUrium. Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
With FATHER MAC NAMARA scaled down to fighting trim after his recent "training trip" up through Canada, ELMER LAYDEN has just about decided that the football season can really commence. As this is writ­ten. Father is still hanging up his hat at St. Joseph Mineral Eaths, Mount Clemens, Michigan, but before the publication reaches the brethren, he will no doubt have checked in at Car­tier Field. Bring on Kansas! 
1898 William C Kesler, 9th and Sjrcamore """ ' Sts., Cincinnati. Ohio. 
* 

-lOQQ Dr. Joieph F. Duane, 418 Jelferson *"*" ' Blvd., Peoria. VO. 
1<MV) John W. Exceman, Old Fint Bank 
l.iFm mj^_^ p,_ Wayne, Ind. 
One of the important weddings of the summer in Fort .Wayne was that in which JUDGE EGGEMAN'S daughter, Mary Elizabeth, a graduate of St. Mary's, Notre Dame, was mar­ried to Joseph Clem Fox, also of Fort Wayne. BOB EGGEMAN, '30, was the best man. 
Later in the summer the Judge had the misfortime to suifer a serious in­jury to his back in a fall in his home. Reports from a local hospital, as this is written, say that he is improving. 
190 1 Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago. III. 
190 2 C. C. SlitchcU, 110 S. Dearborn St., •'*"'*' Box 3, Chicaso, 111. 
190 3 Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. 
•'""'*' Bide., Miltraukee, Wis. 
Inquiring about Notre Dame for his grandson, M. Berkley, 4525 Laclede Street, St. Louis, this summer noted the fact that his sons, FRED, CAR­OL, and CHARLES BERKLEY had all attended Notre Dame in the early 1900's. It was a pleasure for the Registrar to help in carrying on the Notre Dame story in the Berkley fam­
iiy­

1904 Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elk­hart, Ind. 
Among the new men on the campus this year are Joseph and John, the sons of JOHN QUINN, '04. Mr. Quinn is assistant engineer for the New York Central Railroad and has his offices at 15 West 74th Street, New York City. 
1905 Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicaso, IIL 
190 6 1'l'°'«'>3 ^ Lally, Sll-13 Paulsen BIdg., Spokane. Wash. 
1907 ''o^' Thomas E. Burke, C. S. C, No­tre Dame, Ind. 
1908 ^'"^^ ^- Cull, Bulkley BIdg., Cleve­land, Ohio. 
1909 ^ ' ^ ' Cleary, Notre Dame. Ind. 
Notre Dame men will find reason for additional interest in the South Bend News-Times now that PAUL E. MARTIN, '09, has joined the staff as associate editor. This well known alumnus has had wide experience as a newspaper writer and author since he left Notre Dame 26 years ago, and JOE STEPHENSON, publisher of the News-Times and one of the Univ­ersity's most loyal former students, has done well in choosing as his asso­ciate editor a man of Paul Martin's reputation and ability. 
Paul is in charge of the editorial page and his editorial column is al­ways well balanced and interesting. A new feature of the editorial page of the Sunday News-Times is Paul E. Martin's signed column called "Snap­
shots Along the Way." During his newspaper career this writer has made the acquaintance of hundreds of persons who hold positions of prominence in the public limelight and has been the eye witness of a large number of interesting events. This experience supplici^ him with much valuable material for an inti­mate column of this kind. And what is pleasing to all Notre Dame sup­porters is that about every other week this column is devoted to the Notre Dame Paul Martin knew in his stu­dent days. He entered Notre Dame on the bottom rung of the old pre­paratory school ladder and spent years on the campus. He knew many of the men who helped to make Notre Dame the great institution it is at present. In "Snapshots" he revives memories that should always form a part of the Notre Dame tradition. 
Mr. and Mrs. Martin are living in 
the Washington-Colfax Apartments, 
618 West Colfax Avenue, South Bend. 
"The High Law," a plea for more graduate work in law, which ap­peared in Commonweal on June 28, was the contribution of JOHN Mc-DILL FOX, dean of the law school at the Catholic University. 
ia|0 Ber. IL L. Moriartr. ISO* Eielid **'•"' Ave, Cleveland, Ohio. 
IQII Fred Steera, 1C35 FIn t National ^ Bank Bids., Chicago, m . 
iqi9 B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth SL, Pitta­*"*•* burgh. Pa. 
Communications to the Alumni Office from the son Walter, Jr., who will be a Sophomore at Notre Dame this year, revealed the fact that WALTER DUNCAN and his family enjoyed a western tour this summer. Glacier National Park was just one of the many spots they visited. 
191 3 James J. Devitt. 921 Enginccra BUg.. ^'^ CleveUnd. Ohio. 
HAEEY KIEK of 3002-25th St., 
N. E., Washington, D. C, late in the Spring very kindly send in the follow­ing intensely interesting note, which unfortunately failed to squeeze into the last issue of the ALUMNUS, in June: 
In the February 1935 issue of the ALUMNUS, on the pages entitled "An Earlier Notre Dame," appeared a picture of the 1913 class crew. It will perhaps be interesting to the members of the class of 1913, and others, to indicate a few facts regard­ing this picture.- Reading away from the camera, those in the picture are as follows: 
No. 6.—Stroke Oar: HARRY J. KIEK, formerly of Defiance, Ohio., now of Washington, D. C. 
No. 5—BERNAED DUECH, Chip­pewa Falls, Wisconsin. Durch is now •working for the Federal Housing Administration, having authority over a considerable area of Wisconsin in the vicinity of his old home, Chippe­wa Falls. 
No. 4—Missing—LOUIS J. KILEY, formerly of Rochester, New York. Now deceased. 
No. 3—MANUEL LEQUERICA of Cartagena, Columbia. No. 2—ERICH HANS DE FRIES of Davenport, Iowa. Now deceased. No.l—Bow Oar: JOSEPH LE­BLANC of Lafourche Crossing, La. 
* 
1914 F""'' ^- Hayes, 406 Bank of Amer­ica Bldir.. Anaheim. Calif. 

Among those who this summer at­tended the 25th anniversary reunion of the class of 1910 of the old South Bend High School was MARK DUN­CAN, of Chicago. Mark is treasurer of the group. 
From the job of State Safety Dir­ector AL FEENEY has turned to the job of administrator of the Indianapo­lis milk marketing area, according to an announcement on July 1, by Lieu­tenant - Governor M. Clifford Town­send, of Indiana. Al had done an outstanding job as director of the state police, according to well-posted authorities all over the state. 
DAN SHOUVLIN, Springfield, 0., made a couple of trips to the campus between issues of the ALUMNUS. July found him conferring with St. Mary's with regard to the entrance of his daughter. And September brought him back to St. Mary's and Notre Dame with the same daughter, who is now a Freshman "across the road." Dan will have a son ready for college next September. 
The Cheboygan Daily Tribune, Che­boygan, Michigan, on August 10 car­ried the big news that the local Hotel Top-in-a-bee, one of the leading re­sort hotels in Northern Michigan, had been sold to ED MOLONEY, who was at Notre Dame as a prep in 1913-14. Ed later attended the University of Michigan and finished in law in 1924 at the University of Detroit. 
1915 J"""" E. Sanford, 1324 Farwell Ave. Cliicaeo. 111. 

With his editorial in Commomoeal demanding that Catholics boycott the 1936 Olympic games in Berlin and his address before the Institute of Human Relations at Williams College, GEORGE SHUSTER, as Managing Editor of Commonweal, has been of late conspicuously before the public eye. His editorial opened a fresh dis­cussion of an already -warm question and drew a long comment (\vith his picture) in the Literary Digest. At Williams College, George discussed the question: "What Can We Learn from the Situation in Germany?" 
Another editorial worker, MAU­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
RICE ANDREWS, sent word that the October issue of his Sport Story Mag­azine would contain an article, "The Air Route to Victory," by FRANK THOMAS, '23, coach of the more-than -successful Alabama football team. On the cover of this issue (on the newsstands September 13) is a pic­ture of Frank, made from a painting. 
* 
1 Q1A Timothy P. Galvin, First Trust Bide.. 
•"'•' ° Hammond, Ind. 
Among the comings and goings of the summer recorded in the South Bend papers were those of RUSSEL DOWNEY and his family who have a nearby summer home at Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, Michigan. 
IQIT Edward J. MeOskcr, 104 S. Union St.. ElBin. 111. 
"Stance Oil Co., STANLEY B. COFALL, President"! Thus can be anounced the fact that Stan has or­ganized his own company in Cleve­land, following his association with Standard Oil. His plant's address is East 99th Street and the New York Central tracks. And "only the finest oils and lubricants" is Stan's motto. 
Another Clevelander and another '17er is also expanding. MATT TRU­DELLE, former president of the Cleveland Club, announced early in the summer that five new principals have been added to the Trudelle Ad­vertising Company and that the firm name has been changed to Trudelle & Co. Matt's organization handles publicity, promotion and advertising service, with offices in the Schofield Building. 
And, of course, no good '17er would want this issue of the ALUMNUS to get past the presses without, in this column, a special mention of the fact that the president of the national Alumni Association, one BERNIE VOLL, is a member of the class and reputedly in good standing thereof. 
1918 ''°'"' -*" i^'""'^''. me—S'h Arc., s.. Escanaba, Mich. GEORGE RARBERT of Chicago, is now Past Grand Knight of the St. Paul of the Cross Council Knights of Columbus after serving three years as Grand Knight. 
George has been teaching Real Property at John Marshall Law School for six years. He writes that he attended the Illinois State K. of 
C. Golf Tournament in which JOHN­NY BANKS made second low gross and placed on the inning low gross team. 
George is still with the Chicago Title and Trust Company. 
Jim Logan is Commander of Post No. 1, American Legion in Denver. Jim has 1700 Legionnaires on his hands and is working hard to bring 
October, 1935 
the National Convention to Denver in 1936. 
Attorney JOSEPH T. RILEY of Muskegon was one of the delegates to the national convention of the Knights of Columbus to be held in New York City. Joe is as busy as ever at Muskegon and is always glad to see Notre Dame men. 
JOHN LEMMER. 
1Q1Q Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, *"* " Gary. Ind. 
1490—I'M B. Ward. 1912 Black Bide.. Los 1S»«U Aneeks, Calif. 
A new South Bend law partnership, bringing together two Notre Dame men, ED DORAN, '20, and PAT MANION, '22, has just been an­nounced. Officers will be in the Union Trust Building. Ed is one of the city's most prominent attorneys. Pat has likewise been prominent in city, as well as state affairs, and is at present state director of the National Emer­gency Council. He will continue as professor of law at Notre Dame. 
One of the considerable group of Sound Bend alumni attending the Lay Retreat this summer was DR. MAU­RICE THORNTON. The doctor has been "making 'em" for the past sev­eral summers despite a large practice that draws heavily on his time and energy. 
JIM BRENNAN has been ap­pointed general agent in Chicago and lots of surrounding territory for the Fidelity Mutual Insurance Company of Philadelphia. Associated with Jim this summer was ED KRAUSE, '34, and JOHNNY BALDWIN, '33, has made a permanent tie-up with the Brennan organization. 
1921 -^'d'" J- Cusick, 1 Park Ave.. New York City. 
What with going optimistic with the Optimist Club in South Bend, coaching varsity baseball and fresh­man football and doing his duty as a teacher of the young, JAKE KLINE is still looking for something to occupy his time. The neighborhood fish help in that regard. Ask Jake or ART DIEDRICH, '23, for the de­tails. 
As a member of the speaker's com­mittee, AL SLAGGERT of Detroit was super - active in promoting the Marquette Memorial celebration held in Ludington, Michigan on August 9, 10 and 11. Radio was his chief me­dium. (Alumnor ARMSTRONG who, with Mrs. Armstrong, attended the Marquette pageant which was an im­portant part of the Ludington event, was enthusiastic.) 
Al also gave the address at the baccalaureate breakfast of St. An­drew's High School in Saginaw, Mich­igan, on June 9. 

1422 Otimli Ashe. Buffalo Athletic Club. x^^ A Buffalo, New York. 
GEORGE PROKOP, of Youngs­
tow-n, Ohio, together with DICK FAL­
VEY, '23, of Winamac, Indiana, were 
tivo of the former Notre Dame stars 
who ^\•itnessed the Purdue-N.D. base­
ball fracas on the campus last May. 
(A little tardy in this news, boys, 
but we'll improve ^vith age, we hope). 
KID ASHE is now called the "the champ" by the boys around the Buff­alo Athletic Club, according to the testimony of JIM WHEELER, '17, of Milwaukee, who gets to Buffalo occasionally. Kid, Jim says, is the champion billiard and pool player of the club. 
1923 '*'"'' Castncr. White Motor Co., Cleveland. Ohio. 
RAY GALLAGHER, in addition to his duties as professor of political economy at DePaul University, Chi­cago, has been a frequent contribu­tor to Commonweal. The May 31 is­sue of that journal carried his article on "Government Career Service" and in the June 28 issue he presented an excellent book review. Ray also par­ticipates in the program of the Chi­cago Chapter of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
State Senator DAN LYNCH, of Hammond, Indiana, has recently been appointed attorney for the school city of Hammond. 
TOM LIEB, coach at Loyola in Los Angeles, and ELMER L.AYDEN e.x­changed condolences on their forth­coming teams when Tom was East in May and stopped off on the campus for a visit with his host of friends. 
LOUIE BRUGGNER is now a roarin' Lion. The head man of one of South Bend's leading newspaper, magazine, confectionery, etc., etc., es­tablishments, Louie was initiated into the South Bend Lions' Club last May. After his first feed of raw meat he jumped with even more Bruggner vigor into the job of chairmaning the Lay Retreat committee for the St. Joe Valley Club. And, of course, did a great job. 
FATHER TOM BRENNAN was one of the leading lights photograph­ed at the head table when the Marco­ni Club, a new society of South Bend Italians, had its formal opening cere­monies just recently. Yes, Brennan is still the name. 
Iq24 James F. Hayes. Wm. J. Pedrick & Co.. Empire State BIdir., N.Y. C. 
JIM MEEHAN, after a long period in the East—since 1924, in fact,—is back in the familiar haunts. He's as­sociated in South Bend with the well kno\\'n Schilling store. 
1Q2<> John W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St. ^^^^ Chicago, 111. 
Your Assistant Secretary and Mrs. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Dooley had the pleasure of eating lunch with Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MO­RAN in Chicago in early September. A chance meeting in a Chicago hotel provided the opportunity for arrang­ing the later eating session. With his office in Denver, John is the Rocky Mountain district attorney for the Continental Oil Company. He and Mrs. Moran were in Chicago on a vacation trip. 
The middle of the Summer brought a card from AL DASCHB.A.CH to say that he and Mrs. Daschbach are now receiving their mail at 221 Third Avenue, Laurel Beach, Milford, Con­necticut. 
JOHNNY NOPPENBERGER has changed his Peoria affiliation from Spalding Institute to Peoria Central High School, where he is assistant coach. 
BOB WORTH is enlightening the South, according to his recent letter. He says: "Have an office in Jackson­ville, Florida, and am in charge of sales for the Prest-O-Lite Battery Co. in Florida, South Georgia and a wee bit of South Carolina. Have two children living, one almost five, the other almost one, both girls. Although I travel a great deal I seldom run into any one from N. D. I have seen BOB LEPERT in Miami several times re­cently and BILL KREIG once at Mia­mi Beach. Bob has chosen Miami as his idea of heaven on earth, while Bill was spending his vacation there with his wife. 
"I had a two weeks vacation in In­dianapolis this summer, and saw a great many old friends, especially at the Notre Dame Club summer dance. While there I had a nice visit with Senator JOE McNAMARA." 
1926 '''•• Gerald W. Hayes. 96 X. Walnut St.. East'Oranse. N. J. 
JACK S.4.UNDERS, '31, reported in Mid-Summer on some of the gang of the late '20s. His Winchellisms follow: 
"T. ALOYSIUS FARRELL re­turned on Wednesday from one of the United Fruit Lines best cruises. The Farrell benefitted much from the change of venue. The coal business kept him on the hop right up until he sailed. 
"DAN O'NEILL and the gang will help the Doc JERRY HAYES clan celebrate the christening this after­noon. The Doc is going like a house on fire. 
"'BIG WINK' plans to follow in the footsteps of Farrell—I mean tak­ing that Puerto Rican trip—^not ma­trimony. JACK WINGERTER (or 'Little Wink') is going to town for the March of Time outfit. 
"ART McMANMON is plastering the New England countryside ^vith bits of commercial artistry for Don­nelly Advertising:. BIG JOHN has gone in for golf in the biggest way. 
27 

Hildreth of Louisville builds a special bat for the seige-gun." 
JOE WAGNER, late of Tiffin, Ohio, is now in Toledo with the Acme Fast Freight, Inc., and living at 20 Rosalind Avenue. FRANK MUR­RAY, '25, is manager of the Toledo unit of Acme. 
Father KEITH ROCHE should now be addressed at St. Patrick's Rec­tory, Havana, Illinois, where he's been pastor since early Summer. The Peo­ria diocese appointments which gave Keith his first pastorate also named as his successor in St. Marjr's Parish, Canton, Illinois, Father BOURKE MOTSETT, '31, recently returned from Rome after his theological stud­ies and ordination. 
1927 Edmund DeClett], Sllg Ellis Are., Chicago, ni. 
Ladies and gentlemen. Mayor AL SMITH, of La Porte, Indiana! Al's steady rise in Democratic politics was topped a few weeks ago by his selec­tion as mayor of one of northern In­diana's most important cities. The LaPorte city council chose him when a vacancy arose as the result of the death of the former mayor. 
Also much in the headlines this summer was your pal JOE BOLAND, football coach and radio announcer. Through WSBT, the South Bend Tribune station, Joe put on for sev­eral months a week-day 15-minute program called "Man on the Street" in which, stationed on a downtown comer, he interviewed passing pedes­trians on current news topics. His work attracted lots of favorable attention. Joe was also widely em­ployed by the South Bend station as a sports announcer for everything from an outdoor motor regatta to tennis tournaments. 
Registrar BOB RIORDAN sends up word that CHET McDONALD, 310 Lafayette Street, Salem, Massa­chusetts, has asked to have his Notre Dame credits transferred to the Law School at Boston College. 
Among the late Spring visitors in the South Bend area were Mr. and Mrs. LES GRADY who were in Mishawaka at the home of Mr. and Mrs. AL DOYLE. Mrs. Grady and Mrs. Doyle are sisters. 
1928 I^O" Buckley, 718 E. Corby St., 
•'"'*•" South Bend, Ind. 
To his varied interests JOHN Mc­MANMON has recently added the parks of Lowell, Massachusetts. John was on June 4 elected by the Lowell city council as a member of the local Park Commission. 
ART CANTY has announced his association with ED DUGGAN, '26, in the practice of Law. The firm's offices are in the Federal Trust Build­ing, Newark, New Jersey. 
28 The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1935 
HENRY BAUM writes that he is employed by the Battle Creek Biscuit Company, of Battle Creek, Michigan and is living at 15 Bumham Court in the same city. Henry was married a year ago to Mary Louise McCarty, of Battle Creek. 
Commencement last June brought 

about thirty of the '28 men back to 
the campus. REV. MARK J. FITZ­
GERALD, C.S.C., had just finished 
his year at the Novitiate and was 
with us at the Alumni dinner. It 
seemed great to see Mark in his Holy 
Cross habit. 
JACK DONOHUE was a fellow classmate of mine at the University of Wisconsin this summer. Jack is teaching in the Vocational School in West Allis, Wisconsin. We had some sessions together in Madison, talking over the undergraduate days at Notre Dame. RON RICH and GEORGE HENNION, '32, were other members of the Notre Dame faculty who were attending Wisconsin this summer. 
I saw REV. ANDREW MUL­

RANEY, C.S.C, at Holy Cross Col­
lege in Washington, where he has two 
more years before he finishes his theo­
logical course. 'VMiile in Washington 
I heard that BILL DUFFY was there 
with the A.A.A. I tried my best to 
get in touch with him and BILL 
CRONIN, who is private secretary to 
FRANK WALKER, but was unable 
to reach either of them. 
It was impossible for me to drive 

through West Virginia without stop­
ping at Sistersville, of SEXTON and 
DAVIS fame. I found that JIM SEX­
TON is located in Texas where he is 
connected with an oil company. 
HENRY DAVIS hasn't gone so far 
away from the home town. He is liv­
ing in St. Mary's, West Va. Both 
Jim and Henry are married. 
After seven years of silence, I 

finally heard from REV. JAMES Mc-
SHANE, Sjr., who is teaching this 
year at St. Louis University High 
in St. Louis, where he holds down the 
chairs of Greek, Public Speaking, 
and Commercial Law. ROSCOE 
BONJEAN, according to Jim, is 
doing well at the bar (Law) in 
Springfield, Illinois. 
LOUIE BUCKLEY. 
* 

1929 Jouph McNamata, 231 Wisconsin 
St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
FRED FAUST, Texarkana, Texas, 

just recently wrote the Registrar to 
have his credits transferred to the 
University of Texas Law School. 
The Saturday Evening Post tractor stories have apparently captivated LEO SCHRALL. Leo is now with .the Caterpillar Tractor Company in 
Peoria. 
. Father JOE BARRY, C.S.C, has 
been relieved of his duties as assist­
ant pastor at St. Joseph's in South 
Bend and assigned to the local Cath­olic Youth Organization in which he is assistant to Father VINCE MOON­EY, C.S.C, '16, arector. 
OLLIE SCHELL wrote on June 8: "I am receiving a master's degree from New York University on the 12th after several years of night study in accounting, and next year I hope to gratify an old ambition to study third year accounting with Pro­fessor Kester who's book we used when Brother Cyprian taught us accounting. A trip back to Notre Dame in the fall is another thing I am planning and it will be my first visit since graduation in 1929." Ollie is living at 310 Riverside Drive, New York City. 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth 
St., New KcnsinfTton. Pa. 

JIM WALSH wrote in July ex­pressing his regret that he hadn't been able to get back for the class re­union in June because of the press­ure of his work. Jim since February has been First Assistant Division Counsel of the HOLC in Dallas. His law offices are in the First National Bank Building. 
JIM MCDONALD has changed his address from Los Angeles to 1534 South Western Avenue, Chicago. 
Dr. RALPH AUGUST (formerly Augusovitz) received his degree in medicine from the University of Michigan in June and is now intern­ing in Hackley Hospital, Muskegon, Michigan. 
"Wonderful time" was the message which JOHN HEALY inscribed on a postcard send to the Alumni Office from Heidelberg, Germany, this Sum­mer. 
WILLIAM V. SNELL, who spent tivo years at Notre Dame with the class of '30, was ordained to the priesthood in Davenport, Iowa on May 12 and sang his first solemn Mass in Clinton, Iowa, on May 19. 
The news just recently reached the Alumni Office of the marriage last October 3 of GEORGE HEINEMAN to Eileen Heifeman. George and his wife toured Ireland on their wedding trip. 
Late last May PAT GOGGIN vrrots thus: "TOM MONAHAN, '31, relays the information this week-end that JACK YELLAND, '30, will not be able to attend [the Five-Year Re­union] on account of a certain Miss Monley on June 4. While in Chicago last week, the 'o and o' MART DOW­NEY and the writer spent a few brief minutes ironing out our own personal difficulties, in general." Pat wrote from the "o and o" Areola, niinois. 
1931 ' '"'"' ^ Boland. 1402 Linden St.. 

Scranton, Pa. In addition to his former job as head football coach at the University 
of Texas, JACK CHEVI6NY is now Director of Athletics there, according to press dispatches. 
With his dues for the year, JOHN ZUBER sent along word that he is now Vice-President and Credit Mana­ger for the Murphy & O'Hara Com­pany, dealers in general house fur­nishiiigs, Saginaw, Michigan. John hopes to see some of the home games with a delegation of his friends this Fall. 
DAN WILLIAMS, accordmg to word from the Cornell Law School, was one of a two-man team which last April argued and won the final first-year moot case for the 1934-35 year. Presiding on the bench for the argu­ments were three justices of the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court. 
LOUIS GODOY, in San Salvador this summer with the Cuban Olym­pic team for the Central American Olympic Games, remembered FATH­ER O'HARA ^vith a postcard just be­fore returning to Havana. 
Sending in his dues ART KANE asked to have his address changed to 4020 Dickason Avenue, Dallas, Texas. Art is in the advertising department of the Sears, Roebuck store in Dallas. He said that DICK LAUGHLIN, e.\-. '29, is now the district advertising manager for Sears in Dallas. 
BUD TUOHY is practicing law with the firm of Paltrow & Rice at 41-27 Bell Avenue, Bayside, L.I., New York. He announced his connection on June 1. 
Professor LOUIE BUCKLEY, while vacationing in Galesburg, Illi­nois, this Summer drove down to Can­ton to see Father BOURKE MOT­SETT who is assistant in St. Mary's Parish there. According to local opin­ion, says Buck, Bourke is just as successful in promoting parish dances as he was as chairman of the K. of C Formal in 1931. 
BUCKY O'CONNOR finished at Yale Medical School last June and is now interning in the Newark City 

•Hospital, Newark, New Jersey. 
While GEORGE VLK has trans­ferred his coaching activities from the Catholic University, Washington, D.O., to the University of Tulsa, at Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
MAURICE GOODEVE wTote 'way back last May from 2110 Fourth St., W., Calgary, Alberta, Canada, that he had been employed for two years past in the offices of one of the local trust companies. He wanted especially to hear from some of the boys. Mau­rice reported that JOE CRONIN, '33, had taken the job of coaching the Cal­gary senior rugby team and was to report August 1. KOA in Denver connected up Maurice with the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night radio pro­gram last Spring. 
JIM HUGHES, just graduated 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
recommends that South Bend Alumni, and Alumni in South Bend for the home football games, patronize the following friends of Notre Dame: 
Compliments / 
I5RU£5[NER'S\ 
Louie y 

NEUIS Q^CORNEP ' 
Bruggner, 
• nfloim amd ^e^viMm
'23 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
The Best and Largest 
Clothing Store in South Bend 


MAX ADLER COMPANY 
'On the Corner'' 
Compliments of 

HOFFMANN HOTEL CO. 

La Salle Annex 

Recreation and Garage 
Meet your Friends at .. . . 

THE GERMAN VILLAGE ' 
Tony Barrett, Prop. 

Hot Sizzling Steaks -- Chicken Dinners 
Specializing in Delicious German Cooked Dishes, Domestic and Imported Beers 1 15 Center St. Phone 3-0854 South Bend, Ind. 
Most Complete Liquor Line in Northern Indiana 

COLONIAL LIQUOR STORE, Inc. 
Buy Here with Confidence 
106 W. Washington Ave. South Bend, Ind. 

THE PHILADELPHIA 
"Home of Purity" 

Gathering place for generations of Notre Dame men 116 North Michigan St. 

HOTEL LA SALLE 
250 Rooms 
Bavarian Dining Room Popular Coffee Shop Original Brandywine Room 
Meet Vour Old Friends at the 

KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 
327 North Michigan St. 
Where Prices and Quality Are Right . . . 
MclNERNY & SWEENEY 
Bob Paul 
228 N. Main St. (Just North of City Hall) Offering a fine selection of Imported and Domestic Wines and Liquors 
Open 7 to I a. m. (Sat., 2 a. m.) Phone 4-4725 
"Good Food" Phone 3-0461 


BILL'S CAFE 
Wm. Wenino, Mgr. 117 W. LaSalle St. " South Bend, Ind. 
If v/e satisfy you, tell others—if not, please tell us. 

COLFAX CAFE 
Two Good Places to Eat "HERE and HOME" 112 West Colfax Ave. South Bend. Ind. 
Patronize Our 
Advertisers 
from the Ohio State University Medi­cal School, was married on June 5. With Mrs. Hughes he stopped on the campus on June 17 on a trip to Chi­cago. It was Mrs. Hughes' first visit to Notre Dame. 
1932 Herbert Giorcio, 9003 ISSth St., Rol­lis, L. I., XcH- York. 
BILL BROWN, formerly of Dan­ville, Illinois, writes that he is now working for the National Tile Com­pany in Anderson, Indiana, and living at 2407 South Main Street. He adds that GENE HOWERY is married, but doesn't include the name of the bride. 
CHARLIE CROCKETT wTites and sends in his dues from Alexandria, Louisiana. He says : "B 0 T T S CROWLEY, '28, has been in this sec­tion of Louisiana for the greater part of the summer umpiring baseball for the Evangeline League. PHILLIP JACOBS, '35, is now working for the same institution that I have been since graduation, namely, the Guar­anty Bank & Trust Co. TOM DAWD is working on an engineering project in the southern part of the state. I saw him and JOE McKEAN at a dance a few weeks ago when Bemie Cummins played here. Someone told me that JIM GUILFOIL had been married during the summer, but I would not verify that statement." 
MARCHIE SCHWARTZ, on top of being head football coach at Creigh­ton in Omaha, is now athletic direc­tor. The announcement of his new job was made July 1. 
JIM COLLINS has been trans­ferred from Chicago to Indianapolis by his company. Pure Carbonic, Inc., manufacturers of dry ice. He's living at 6210 Washington Boulevard in the state capitol. 
BILL BLIND writes: "I've seen VIC SCHAEFFNER, '33, once or t>vice when he dropped into the oiBce to visit his uncle, who is associated with the firm. GEORGE ROHRS finished at Harvard Business School this June. 
"Also saw SAL BONTEMPO a couple of times this summer. He's getting along iine on his job with the City of Newark, and is planning on being married this Fall some time. He's shooting a fine game of golf, which is something that he could never do at N.D. I haven't seen JOE BYRNE since April, but plan to drop down to do so the first chance I have. 
"Will you please give mv regards to PAUL FENLON?" 
JIM MEEHAN asked the Registrar in June to forward the Meehan cred­its to New York University. 
A note from JOHN LAMBERT says that he is working for the Re­lief Works Division of Fayette Coun­ty, Pennsylvania. 
And an announcement from BEN­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
EDICT WILLIAM HARRINGTON formally tells of his graduation from the New Jersey Law School, Newark, last June. 
FRANK MORRISON writes from 373 Grand Avenue, Rochester, New York, as he sends his dues. He says: "I am starting my second year of teaching at Industiy, New York, this Fall. I spent the last month and a half at the University here working towards a principal's certificate in conjunction with my master's degree. 
"My brothers, ARNOLD, '35, and REGINALD expect to return to Notre Dame this Fall. Arnold will study for his master's degree and Reggie will begin his third year." 
1933 D°'<!>I<I ^Visc, 110 Pleasant St., Jo­lict. III. 
DON WAUFLE is attending the Medical School at the University of Alabama this year, according to word from the N.D. Registrar's Oflice. 
For the past year and a half TOM KEARNS has been in the Federal Land Bank in Spokane, Waschington, having moved from Benton, Wiscon­sin. His address is 904 West Ninth Street in Spokane. 
CLE M KURDYS is teaching mechanical drawing in St. Hedwige's High School in South Bend. In the same school as dean of boys, biology instructor and coach is CESAR JAN­ESHESKI, '30. 
1 934 James Moscow, 2320 N. Lawndale Ave, Chicaeo, IlL 
ERNEST MASSIMINE, Brooklyn, has had his credits transferred to the Graduate School of Business at New York University. 
DAVE FEFERMAN, formerly of South Bend, sends word that he is well situated in Los Angeles and is living at 1305 Ingraham Street. 
MAURICE GARLAND is lined up with the Walworth Manufacturing Company in Kewanee, Illinois, and maintaining lots of N.D. contacts through his brother who is a Junior this year. 
BILL McCORMICK sends his dues together with a note to report that he is working in the advertising depart­ment of the Syracuse Herald, Syra­cuse, New York. 
STEVE BANAS has been named head football coach at St. Mary's College, Orchard Lake, Michigan, after a year as assistant freshman coach at N. D. while he finished his law work. 
NICK LUKATS is with the Detroit Lions, professional football team, according to our newspaper clippings. No confirmation so far! 
JIM GRIFFIN is attending the Albany Law School, Albany, New York. 
JOHN ROCHE is associated as 
October. 1935 
selling representative with the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York. His ofiice is at 16 Court Street, Brooklyn. 
JOHN PAVLICK of East Pitts­
burgh is being highly commended by 
the Registrar for his excellent efforts 
in interesting prospective N. D. stu­
dents. 
The golfing FEHLIGS continue their heroic exploits. Vince -ivrites to tell that his brother LOU, who is a Junior at the University this year, won the Junior championship of the St. Louis district on July 11. 
1Q9e Frankljrn C. Hochreiter. 11 Bruns­
i.ir<ia ^..^^^ g[,.j_ B„n^a]„_ jj. Y. 
Gentlemen, may we present your class secretary, elected in recent post­card balloting. He is the eminent library worker, debater and cigar smoker, Mr. FRANKLYN C. HOCH­REITER, whose home address is 11 Brunswick Boulevard, Buffalo, New York, but who is at present attending Columbia University Law School. We'll give you his New York City address in the ne.xt ALUMNUS. 
For director of the -Alumni Associa­tion for one year you elected your Senior Class president, Mr. THOM­AS GRATTAN PROCTOR. Tom is back at Notre Dame for his law work and thus, much to the advantage of the Alumni Office, will be readily accessible for Alumni Board meet­ings. We'll give you Tom's local address later. 
Your Living Endowment Agent is Mr. THOMAS K. LA LONDE, whose permanent address is the Ridgeview Hotel, 901 Maple Avenue, Evanston, Illinois. Tom is traveling through several of the Middle Western states for a shoe company and is meeting many of the fellows. We hope to have an account of his travels for the next 
By devious means and from various points of the compass the following dope regarding present doings of '35 men has been gathered, sorted, and is hereby presented, with apologies for probable errors: 
JOHN CARBINE, Harvard Law School. RAY OAKES, 523 Third Street, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio. JOHN CLARK, Law School, De Paul University, Chicago. GEORGE MACK, Brooklyn Law School, Brooklyn, New York. MIKE SANTULLI, Fordham Law School, New York City. MAURICE FAIRHEAD, George­town Law School, Washington, D. C. JIM JENNINGS, Law School, Uni­versity of Texas. LINC WURZER, with D. F. Brod­
erick, Inc. (Insurance), 154 Bagley Avenue, Detroit. 

JIM HILL, Southwestern Bell Tele­
phone Company, St. Louis. 
VIC CARTON, International Shoe 
Company, St. Louis. 
BILL HOFFERT, Advertising De­
partment, Chicago Daily Neivs. 
BILL CASAZZA, JACK RAINEY, 
JERRY MOLINARI, PETE 
WACKS, and JOE KNAPP all are in 
Albany Law School, Albany, New 
York. 
RALPH GAUTHIER, 1615 Com­monwealth Avenue, Brighton, Massa­chusetts. 
GEORGE DEMETRIO, Business Promotio n Department, Palmer House, Chicago. 
ED BRIED, Graduate student in Chemical Engineering, University of Cincinnati. 
JOHN FOY, Graduate student in Boy Guidance, University of Notre Dame. 
PAT CARROLL (with GEORGE BODEN, '32,), Accounting Depart­ment, General Electric Company, New York City. 
GORDON KRAUSS, 1300 Ameri­can Building, Dayton, Ohio, as mana­ger of a wholesale optical company. 
BILL KENNEDY, free-lance publicity work, Brooklyn, New York. 
JOHN LYNCH, Hartford Electric Light Company, Hartford, Connecti­cut, in student course. 
FRED MORRIS, Mexico, Missouri. Has a job in the home town. 
ED KILMURRY, Creighton Law School, Omaha, Nebraska. 
KENNETH WHIPPS, Buffalo Uni­versity Law School, Buffalo, New York. 
SIGMUND SLUSZKA, University of Warsaw, Poland, for a year, on a 
P.S.A. scholarship. 
JIM O'MEARA, W. M. Sprinkman Sales Corporation, Milwaukee. 
JOHN RYAN, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Framingham, Massachusetts. PETE HERON, ex. '30, is a supervisor in the same com­pany. 
ART KORZENESKI writes from his home in Chicago: "Just got back from Poland and a six weeks course —covered Germany, Sweden, Nomvay and Denmark, too. They are all great, but I wish I were coming back to N. D., the Wranglers, the K. of C. etc., right now." 
JIM McDEVITT says: "Seen at Rockaway Beach one Sunday after­noon together: BILL MOSS, '35, BILL SCHMIDT, '35, ART DOERF­LER, '34, JOHNNY FFRENCH, '34, DICK SCHMIDT, '36, GEORGE GEYER, '38, and JIM McDEVITT, '35. Jim is ^vith Standard Brands, Inc., 595 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
1935 FOOTBALL PROSPEaS 
(Continued from Page 16) 

Don Elser, Fred Carideo, and Steve Miller at fullback. Most of the prom­ising replacements from the reseri'es and freshman squad of last fall are, unfortunately, backs. Elser's gloom is so sincere that the backs have caught it and are convinced that they are going to need a line after all. The returning monogram linemen besides Millner and Michuta are Marty Peters, rangy right end; Matt Ther­nes, left end; the afore-mentioned Steinkemper, Stilley, and Pfefferle left tackles; John Lautar and sunny Church, left guards; Fred Solari and Henry Pojman, at center. But no right guards. 
When Elmer heard that Joe Bo-land, his trusty line coach, had lost 20 pounds during the past summer, he told him to get up in his studies and try out for the job. He \vould be unopposed. The rest of the varsity coaching staff remains the same: Chet Grant, backfield coach; and Tom Conley, end coach. Jake Kline, fresh­man coach, will be assisted by Jack Robinson, Kitty Gorman , Paul Schrenker, and Irwin Davis. 
The schedule follows shortly. You have probably heard that Kansas and Ohio state have replaced Texas and Purdue. 
A hard schedule. A team that will play interesting ball. Some victories and some defeats. There you are. 
Sept. 28—Kansas at Xotrc Dame 
Oct. 5—Camcsie Tech at Pittsburgh 
Oct. 12—"Wisconsin at Madison 
Oct. 19—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
Oct. 2G—Navy at Baltimore 
Nov. 2—Ohio State at Columbus 
Nov. 9—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Nov. 16—Army at New York 
Nov. 23—Southern California at Notre 
Dame. 
Four on All-Star Squad 

Nine out of every ten probably know it, but for the sake of the rec­ord it should be stated here that four Notre Dame football players of last year. Jack Robinson, Rocco Schiralli, George Melinkovich and Dan Hanley were selected for the College AU-Star squad which played the Chicago Bears in a night game in Chicago on August 
29. Because of a recent appendix op­eration Robinson couldn't accept the invitation to join the squad. Schiralli was the only one of the remaining three who got into the game and he for only a few minutes. 
N. D. Softball Team 

New Hochelle, New York, has a Softball team made up entirely of Notre Dame men, according to in­formation passed along by Vail Cliff, '35. And the team has had a success­ful season. 
HOLy CROSS CONGREGATION 
ESTABLISHES NEW HOUSE 

Rev. Stanislaus A. Gmza, C.S.C, 
and Brother Theophilus, C.S.C., as­
sistant superior of St. Charles Boys' 
home, of Milwaukee, Wis., were ap­
pointed in August to go to Poland to 
assume duties in the newly estab­
lished house of the Congregation of 
Holy Cross in Czartorysk, in the prov­
ince of Volhynia. 
The announcement was made by Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C., United State provincial of the congregation at Notre Dame, following a confer­ence with the Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, superior general, and Rev. Casiniir Sztuczko, C.S.C, pastor of Holy Trinity church in Chi­cago, the community's emmisary in Poland this year who selected the site for the new house. 
The appointments were made upon a receipt of a contract from the Right Rev. Adolph Szelazek, bishop of the diocese of Luck in Volhynia, upon whose invitation the congregation has accepted to take over the parish of Czartorysk. 
Only two men are being sent at the present time. Father Bums said, but others are to follow. 
Coachins Appointments 

Bud LaBome has been named assistant to Ed Krause, athletic direc­tor and coach at St. Mary's College, Winona, Minnesota. Emmett Mur­phy, last year with Krause at St. Mary's, is now coach at De LaSalle High School, Chicago, and has as his assistant Abe Zoss, the noted Abe who first carried water for the Notre Dame football squad and then played on it. Dan Hanley, of last year's team and a member, incidentally, of the recent All-Star squad in Chicago, is now backfield coach at DePaul University, Chicago. 
The Notre Dame Three 

The board of arbitration formed to settle hour and wage disputes be­tween union street car motormen and the Northem Indiana Railways, Inc., in South Bend and Mishawaka is com­posed of three men with Notre Dame affiliations: John W. Schindler, '09, of Jlishawaka; Al W. Johannes, ex. '26, South Bend; and Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce at the University. 
South Bend Forum Elects 

Aaron H. Hugenard, '22, and John 
W. Gibbons, 30, have been elected di­rectors of the Catholic Forum, South Bend, succeeding Francis Jones, '29, and Bernard J. Voll, '17. Devoted to discussion of current topics from the Catholic viewpoint, the Forum has dinner-meetings monthly through the winter season. Many of its members are Notre Dame men. 
© 1935, LIGGETT & Myzns TOBACCO CO. 








