The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^K^?^i^e^^ali^t»»'!^if£Ka^^ 

(^AZUM^CL^ (^^/^A^^ 
One of the nicest thmgs about cruising on the famous President Liners is the absolute freedom they allow you—to sail when you pIease,stop­over as you like, continue on when you choose. 
Actually you may go through the Panama Canal to California (or New Vork), to the Orient and hack, or Round (he Afijrid almost as freely on these great ships as you could on your own private yacht. And the fares are no more than for ordinary passage! 
STOPOVER A S YO U LIKE Regular, frequent sailings of the President Liners make it possible for you to stopover exactly idieie you want to—see the things you want to see and make the sidetrips you want to male, then continue whenever yon are ready 
Suppose you are making an Orient cruise: arrive at Shanghai, and find China more fascinating than you ever dreamed any place could be. Stopovcrl Visit Hangchov and Soochow, Tientsin... and Peking. Stay as long as you like. Then continue on... on another President Liner. 
ORIENT ROUNDTAIP S President Liners sail every week from Lo:s Angeles and San Francisco via Hawaii and the Sunshine Route to Japan, China and the Philippines; every other week from Seattle, via the fast Short Route. You may go one way, return the other —stopping over wherever you hke, travel on the new S. S. President Coolidge and S. S. President Hoover and as many others as ) ou choose of the President Liner fleet. Special summer roundirips are from $450, First Class $240 for extra-economical Tourist Class. 

ROUND TH E WORL D The most thnlUng cruise of all. 26,000 miles. Visits in 21 pons in 14 difierent countries, including Hawaii, Japan, China, the Philippines, Malaya, hidia, Egypt, Italy, France — Take only 85 days, or up to two full years—stopping over wherever you please, at no additional fare. First Class fares are from $833.50. And you may sail any week from New York, Los Angeles or San Francisco; alternate weeks from Seattle. Get full details at once. 
the Vorld liners and fromSlCS on the Trans-Pacific vessels. Round-trips by President Liner are generously discounted, and Round Amer­ica roundtrips—one way by President Liner, the other by train—^are from $230 First Class, hometown to hometown. There is a sailing every week from New York; fortnightly from California. 

PRESIDENT LINER S Ask any travel 
it? (gent to show you picttires of the charming public 

rooms and ample decks, the staterooms Uiat are CALIFORNIA President Liners bring all all outside—and samples of the splendid menus I

STEAMSHIP LINES AND 
the thrill of real world travel to this speedy hiter-Get all information from your own travel coastal trip.. .via Havana and the Panama Canal agent, or at any one of our offices: New York; to California. If you like, you may stopover with Boston;'Washington, D. C ; Cleveland; Chicago; 

HlHl 
the same freedom that these liners allow you on Toronto; Vancouver, B. C; Seattle; Portland, Ore.; die longer cruises. Fares are from $140 on Round MAIL UNE San Frandsco, Oakland, Los Angeles or Sao Diego. 
June, 1934 251 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
CCAiMENT 

Another volume of the ALUMNUS closes. 
We have completed what we believe is a good year, through the grace of the University. We do not consider our­selves entirely on the dole, for the year has given us an opportunity to return in valuable service this courtesy. 
But it leaves us as we begin a new year two great objectives—first the build­ing up of our machinery so that it will not fail us in mid-year again. And second, the continuing of the service we have been privileged to perform, so that we may enjoy at least a spiritual freedom from obligations. 
Our own machinery depends upon those five gross and material coins of the realm called dollars. You have al­ready been reminded. The more prompt the response, the more economy in post­age saved. 
Our opportunity for service lies in continuing to contact the hundreds of boys who, with their parents, are study­ing these summer months the facilities and the possibilities of attendance at the various colleges. Literature explaining the academic and financial phases of Notre Dame will be supplied to you or to these boys or their parents as re­quested. 
During the summer, early in July as planned, the administration of the Uni­versity will be changed, in conformity with the rules of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
What would ordinarily be an event of tremendous significance in the life of a university, goes with little more than personal interests and attachments for individuals, since the history of Notre Dame is a history of progress achieved by all those connected with it, dependent upon no one. 
It is the hope of the Alumni Oflice to issue a special news bulletin announcing these changes as soon as possible after their publication. 
Why not help us in thinking over Do you want Father CHara to write and planning next year's ALUMNUS? It's a Religious Page? for you. Several articles of an experi­
Does Petritz's sports section satisfy 

mental nature have been printed this you? 
year. One by the Editor was an outright effort to find out whether you wanted a 
Do you want a page of campus news little culture mixed in with your busi­
by an undergraduate? ness and social news and the news of the campus. The reactions were very favor­The Editor has been in the imenviable able—if and when they materialized. But position of htaving to content the above there weren't enough comments actually generous and co-operating contributors reaching the editorial desk to make up with something akin to "Well, I haven't the floating power deficit of a cake of had any complaints." soap. 
Do you, or do you not, want articles 
of definite intellectual appeal? Take it away. Summer! Do you want Father Cavanaugh to write book reviews? And a pleasant tan to you. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 

The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alimmi Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of singJe copies is 25 oents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALt73INT7S. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Noire Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Hotre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI CtoUNcn. 
MBMBES OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALTOINI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer WILLIAM E . DOOLEY, Assistant Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 

FRANK C. AVALKER, '09 ------- Honorary President 
TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '1G ---------- President 
BERNARD J. Voix, '17-------- First Vice-President 
GRATTAN T . STANFORD, '04 ------ Second Vice-President 
ROBERT E. LYNCH, '03------------ Director 
HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 -- Director 
FRED L. STEERS, 'H------------- Director 
JAMES E. DEERY, '10------------- Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, 'IQ --------(ex officio) Director 
>t^f^'  
'"•  -J^~^ V  ^ C 'iLi '^•*  /  ^^^  .  
s  377  mortality.  

(One of the many beautiful poems by Father O'Donnell.) 
I shall go da\\*n as the sun goes  I shall take flight as a bird wings  I shall mount, strong as the promise  
Over the rim of the world—  Into the infinite blue—  Forged in love's white, first fire—  
Will there be quiet around me.  What if my song come ringing  A soul through the rustling darkness  
As of sunset banners furled?  Down through the stars and the dew?  On pinions of desire.  



TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XII. June, 1934 No. 9. 
FatKer O'Donnell, Brilliant, Beloved President, Dies June 4 
Outstanding Priest, Scholar, Educator, Executive and Soldier Is Taken Just as Commencement is Completed; Funeral Services, Simple but Impressive, Are Held June 6 
His courageous and sacrificing 

heart yielding only when the nine­
tieth annual Commencement cere­
monies had passed into history, Rev. 
Charles Leo O'Donnell, C.S.C., presi­
dent of the University of Notre 
Dame, died in St. Joseph's hospital. 
South Bend, Indiana, at 1:50 a.m., 
on June 4. The awarding of degrees 
had been completed at 6 o'clock the 
previous afternoon, June 3. 
Father O'Donnell's condition had been critical since May 1 and on many occasions the word had come from the hospital that he could not live "through the night" or "another 24 hours." Several times he seemed to be on the point of death. 
In each instance, however, his tre­mendous determination and unbeliev­able vitality had seen him through the crisis. 
Hundreds of returning alumni, solicitous as to the condition of Father O'Donnell, were told that he remained very critically ill. Yet the Commencement exercises, brilliant and impressive, went on as usual. At the annual alumni banquet on Sat­urday evening, June 2 — an occas­ion that was very dear to Father O'Donnell — warm tribute was paid to him by Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., superior general of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross; Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, vice president of the University; and M. Harry Miller, president of the Alumni Association. 
Again at the Commencement exer­cises, Frank C. Walker, commence­ment speaker, referred beautifully to the life, achievements and person­ality of Father O'Donnell. 
jtfost of the graduating students had left and the alumni as well. The peace of Notre Dame was again set­tling over the campus. 
Then Father O'Donnell left, too. Father O'Donnell was stricken in March 1933, with a streptococcus infection in his throat and left lung. His condition became steadily worse and he was given the last rites of the Roman Catholic church early in April, but he rallied immediately and was pronounced out of danger a few days later. The infection moved down into his intestines, however, shortly after. He made his only public appearance dur­ing his illness at the 1933 commence-
Left lo righl: Owen D. Young, Bishop Cassldy, Father O'Donnell, Supreme Knight Carmody, Sergius P. Grace at the 1932 Commencement. 
ment exercises last June 4 when he 
bestowed the golden jubilee Laetare 
medal upon John McCormack. 
Father O'Donnell was treated by many noted specialists in the middle west, east, and south, but his condi­tion improved very slowly. Paralysis in his lower limbs made walking al­most an impossibility for him during the past fall and winter. 
He returned to St. Joseph Hospital about this spring after spending several weeks at Miami Beach, Flor­ida. He was there only a few days when he went to New York for treat­ment by a physician he had met at Miami Beach. This doctor said, how­ever, that Father O'Donnell's condi­tion had become so much worse since he had seen him in Miami Beach that there was nothing he could do for him. 
Father O'Donnell returned April 30 from the East. Paralysis of his left lung and the lower half of his body set in, and he was again given the last rites of the church shortly thereafter. 
His brother, Michael, and his sis­ters, Mrs. Agnes Carey, Mrs. R. A. Lundgren, and Miss Maiy O'Donnell, of Kokomo, Ind., were with him when he passed away. 
The Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, who was appointed vice-president in July, 1933, had been carrying on many of Father O'Donnell's duties since then. He will serve as acting president until July, at which time Father O'Donnell's second three-year term wotdd have ended. 
Father O'Donnell, eleventh presi­dent of Notre Dame and one of the most brilliant minds of the day, was bom in Greenfield, Indiana, Nov. 15, 1884. 
He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1906. He studied later at Harvard, Catholic University, and Holy.Cross college, Washington, D.C., receiving his Ph.D. degree from Cath­olic University in 1910. He-was or­dained a priest in the Roman Catho­lic Church, June 24, 1910. He then became professor of English litera­ture at Notre Dame. 
He won his first recognition as a poet in 1916 when his "The Dead Musician" was acclaimed by the critics. It was written to eulogize the death of Brother Basil, C.S.C, an organist at Notre Dame. 
He began to produce poetry and prose which won him ranking with the leading living writers. He had been president of the Catholic Poetiy society of America since its organi­zation in 1930, having been recently reelected to the post. He was for many years assistant editor of the Ave 3Iaria, which is published at Notre Dame. He • was the first editor of the Dome, Notre Dame cam­pus yearbook. 
His published books include: "New­man's Gentleman," 1916; "The Dead Musician and Other Poems," 1916; "A Book of Notre Dame Verse" of which he was editor, 1917; "The Cloister and Other Poems," 1922; and "A Rime of the Rood," 1928. 
Father O'Donnell was noted as a thinker, an orator, a soldier, an exec-' utive, and a religious as well as a writer. 
He became an army chaplain in 1917, accompanying the American Expeditionary Forces to France upon the entrance of America into the War. He served for five months with 

254 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Ju7ie, 19Si 
the 117th regiment of- engineers in the 42nd division on the western front. He saw service later for nine 


WATCHING 
months with the 332nd Infantry in 
Italy and Austria. He was a charter member of the Notre Dame Post, Veterans of Foreign Wars. 
He succeeded the Verj' Eev. An­drew Morrissey, C.S.C., as provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1920. He became assistant supe­rior general of the congregation in 1926, serving as assistant to the pres­ent superior general, the Very Eev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C. He be­came president of the University in 1928 and was reelected to the posi­tion in 1931. 
King Victor Emmanuel IH con­ferred the honor of Chevalier of the Crown of Italy upon Father O'Don­nell in 1931. He was the iirst college president in this countrj- and one of the few Americans to receive the honor. 
He was constantly in demand as a speaker, especially by the alumni in whom he was ardently interested. 
In the face of the depression and a slight drop in enrollment. Father O'Donnell had completed a $3,000,­000 building program. The size of the faculty was increased and the usual advancements in faculty sal­aries were made throughout the de­pression. 
Father O'Donnell was constantly interested in advancing the intellec­tual standing of the University, while maintaining a balanced academic, athletic, and spiritual program. 
Funeral services for Father O'Don­nell were conducted in Sacred Heart Church, on Wednesday, June 6, with the simplicity and dignitj' which he so admired. There was no sermon. The military display was confined to an escort of Company D, 113th Engi­neers, Indiana National Guard which 
* » » For Charles L O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
I stood, between the hour of three and four, Beside his bier. The odor of dead flowers Was heavy-sweet upon the air. And more And more as I prayed, the then relentless hours Boomed on, and birds were singing. How quiet you were, Turned just a little on your side, as though You reached for peace. The dawn began to stir. Restless and sweet with life; I know you know. 
The thought of the living you still hangs upon me Like the cool mist upon the outside leaves; As I turn, time and time again, to see If it be really you this hour grieves; "And may perpetual light upon him shine. . . ." He was my friend, and may he now be Thine. 
—^NORBERT ENGELS, '26. 

* Members of the lay faculty stood watch at the bier of Father O'Donnell on the night before his funeral. 
marched alongside the hearse from ward F. Hoban, Bishop of Eockford, the church to the cemetery, then fired Illinois, assisted at the funeral Mass a salute as the body was being low­and Bishop Noll pronounced the final ered into the grave. "Taps" added absolution. A large number of mon­the last sad note to the services. signori, priests, brothers, nuns and 
The solemn requiem Mass was cel­laymen attended the services in a ebrated by the Very Rev. James W. church which was filled but not Donahue, C.S.C, superior general of crowded. The ceremonies were broad­the Congregation of Holy Cross. The cast by WSBT-WFAM, the South 
deacon was Eev. John P. O'Hara, Bend Tribune broadcasting stations. C.S.C, vice-president of the Univer­The pallbearers were Rev. Eugene sity and the sub-deacon, Eev. J. Burke, C.S.C, Rev. John McGinn, Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, director of C.S.C, Eev. John Eyan, C.S.C, Eev. studies. Eev. Francis J. Wenninger, Charles Doremus, C.S.C, all class­C.S.C, dean of the College of Sci­mates of Father O'Donnell in the ence, was master of ceremonies. class of 1906, and Rev. Thomas 
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bish­Burke, C.S.C. and Eev. William H. op of Fort Wayne, and Most Eev. Ed­Molony, C.S.C. 
"MAY HIS SOUL ... . THROUGH THE MERCY OF GOD. REST IN PEACE" 
Scenes of the simple ceremonies which marked the burial of Father Charles O'Donnell. In keeping with die rule of the Order, there was no sermon. 
FATHER O'DONNELL IS DEAD 
" . . . . Only the song he made is hushed, his soul Responsive to God's touch, in His control Elsewhere shall tune the termless ecstasy Of one who all his life kept here 
An alien ear, Homesick for harpings of eternity"

G| }0 
Greatness is essentially giving; but in its gifts essentially receives. 
Father Charles O'Donnell in the lines quoted above poured from his great heart and his mirroring mind a tribute to Brother Basil, "The Dead Musician," that now for its writer peals an equal chord. 
So for every phase of the years that marked his brief but brilliant career, tributes now are but the in­evitable echoings of great gifts freely given. 
Father O'Donnell possessed many talents. These he looked upon as tools of God. Where he saw an op­portunity to build, he used these rich endowments and did not count the cost. 
The rare and beautiful gift of poetry would, alone, have marked him in the minds of men as great. And his melodies he shared as freely as the limitations of his vocation and his increasing duties permitted. The world of poetry is infinitely richer, in beauty of ex­pression and in the deep Christianity of its content^ for his contributions. 
As a teacher, he gave to his classes that perfection of concept and clarity of expression which was the es­sential method of his mind. He was innately an enemy of inferiority and mediocrity. Students found in his classes that brilliance of pure culture which too seldom pierces the clouded academic routine. 
To athletics Father O'Donnell gave the priceless gift- of perfect understanding. He it was, at Notre Dame where the materials were best at hand, who ar­ticulated in his inimitable, irresistible logic, the sound­ness, the philosophy and the poetry of athletics, in the educational sphere. H e it was who, from his unceas­ing analysis of men and things, drew the bold etchings and carved the vivid friezes of physical development on the American campus. Knowing no compromise, in­tolerant of distortion, his own conclusions and convic­tions- regarding this previously debated relationship swept into the field and conquered all but prejudice or 
pride. 
But of all the objects of his interest^ an interest which ripened and deepened with the years into a great love, Notre Dame was for Father O'Donnell on a height apart. 
To Our Lady, patron of the University, in all her spiritual beauty, his poetic heart poured out its bound­less affection and his tongue unending melody. 
For Notre Dame in its physical aspects, as the in­strument through which the cause of Our Lady and her Son was interpreted to the boys and to the world. Father O'Donnell literally has laid down his life. Six years as president of this institution meant nothing of personal glory, nothing of a justified glow of himian pleasure at a task brilliantly done. They meant to him only another opportunity to broaden the honor and the glory of God and His Blessed Mother. To this end he worked with a selflessness and a ceaselessness that left him without resource when nature asked its toll. 
The biography of Father O'Domiell is liberally re­flective of achievement in many fields. As poet, as preacher, as teacher, as executive, he has commanded admiration and respect. Seeking always perfection, and demanding, not for himself but for God and Our Lady, the best, it is natural that he should have always walked in high places. Here, in his brilliant humility, he was a natural and a welcomed part. Men of God, men of letters, men of business, men everywhere, found in his philosophy and in his work varying and never-ending sources of awe. Chesterton delighted in this living para­dox he found here—a great priest, a great poet, and a great president. 
The world may profit from a review of his life, having known him in many phases. 
To Notre Dame men, all the possible eloquence of eulogy could do litde more than this sad, significant pronouncement— 
Father O'Donnell is dead. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, ISH 
Father O'Donneli and the Alumni 
By TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 
President of the Alumni Association 
The first official act which it fell to my lot to perform as President of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame was to express to the University the genuine sorrow felt by the Alumni everywhere when the death of Father Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, was announced. I performed that duty and gave assurance to Father John O'Hara, C.S.C., acting president of the Uni­versity, that the beautiful soul of Father O'Donnell would be well remembered by the Alumni in their prayers and that his wonderful accomplishments for his beloved Notre Dame would not soon be forgotten by us. 
It was a sad duty that I thus performed; and yet it was significant in a way that is not sorrowful, and I am sure that it is this significance of the event and not its sorrowful impli­cations that Father O'Donnell himself would have us empha­size. This death gave us one more opportunity to link our­selves with the spiritual side of Notre Dame. Death has taken an unusual toll of outstanding men at Notre Dame these past few years: the incomparable Rockne, the beloved Charles Phillips, the saintly Father Hudson, and now the brilliant Father Charles O'Donnell come to mind immediately, and there are others. Yet these men have but been added to in death to the'long list of men who have given their lives to the building and progress of Notre Dame. 
When I visited Notre Dame at Commencement time the physical beauty and greamess of the University impressed me as never before and I was filled with humble gratitude that I was privileged to be a son of this great institution. But when I stood in the Community Cemetery a few days later at the funeral of Father O'Donnell then it was that I was impressed even more forcibly by the spiritual beauty and greatness of Notre Dame. The rows of simple crosses in that cemetery mark the resting places of the bodies of the men who have given us Notre Dame, but it takes the death of a Father O'Donnell to make us realize fully that Notre Dame has been for more than ninety years a center of learn­ing, of piety, of culture, of religion; that the accumulated achievements of the men of the Holy Cross order and the laymen who have been associated with them have built a monmtmient in intellectual, cultural, and moral fields of which even the Notre Dame of tOKlay is no adequate physical counterpart. 
Father O'Donnell's dream of Notre Darae was that it should be a great cultural, religious and educational center. He contributed to the realization of that dream, with a fervor worthy of the men who had preceded him in that effort and whose mantles he wore so worthily, a fervor so great that it undoubtedly contributed to his early death. But if his death can make the living more appredarive of the goal he has set 
for Notre Dame and can likewise make us cognizant o f the 
fact that the goal is in reality attained whenever and wherever the sons of Notre Dame reflect in their lives the beauty of her teachings, then Father O'Donnell died neither too early nor in vain. And it is the power of the death of a man like Father O'Donnell to produce such realizations that gives such a death its true significance. 
I believe that Notre Dame men everywhere will take from the example of our fallen leader the resolve to carry on for Notre Dame with renewed zeal and determination. That this zeal and determination may be manifested in renewed and greater activities for the progress of Notre Dame is my most earnest wish and hope as I assume the Presidency of our Assodarion. I accept it with the deepest gratitude to my fellow Alumni for their confidence in me and with the desire to serve them to the best of my humble ability to the end that the efforts of the Alumni Association may be united with those of the officials and faculty of the University in promoting the great educational ideal that has been dedicated to Our Lady of the Lake. 
June, 19Si THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 

Telesrams Express Sympathy of Entire Country 
I just heard of your deep loss by the death of Reverend Father O'Donnell, President, University of Notre Dame. You have my heart­felt S3rniPathy in this hour of your bereavement. 
Georges P. Laurin, M.P. St. Laurent, P,0. Montreal, Canada 
Please accept my deepest condolences for the loss of beloved Father 
O'Donnell. Gino V. Medici De Solenni, Prof. Notre Dame CoIIese 
Deepest sympathies and fervent prayers. Msgr. N. J. Lavelle. 
Sincerest sympathy and assurance of our communitys prayers for 
the deceased President. Rev. Bruno Hajjspiel. S.V.D.. Provincial, Techny, III. 
Sincere sympathy to Notre Dame and Holy Cross Order in the death of Father O'Dcnnell. Enroute to attend funeral. "Will and Rose Finnigan Hurley. 
Accept my heartfelt condolences on the death of your* beloved President, Francis J. Keenan. 
I am grieved to learn of Father O'Donnell's death. Regret I am not in Chicago to run over and attend funeral. Kindly accept sym­pathy from :;our friends in the Northern Trust Company, Chicago. 
Sincerely, Bayless W. French. Regret inability to attend funeral. Shall say Mass for my friend. Condolence to Community. Rev. Joseph E. Hammill. 
My sympathy to you all. Thanks for wiring me. I will be there. Joe Byrne. 
Sympathy from the Community and prayers for Father O'Donnell. Mother Marie and the Dominican Sisters. 
Words mean nothing. This is merely a profound expression of the sympathy I feel in your great loss. Sfany is the time I ser\'od at the Altar with him who today rests in peace but restless soul that I am I need your help. Join with me then in my prayers for his Eternal Peace. 
Walter B. landers. 
The priests of the diocese of Reno unite with me in extending their heartfelt sympathy to the faculty in the loss of your noble President, Father O'Donnell. 
Bishop Gorman. Deep sympathy in loss of President. Genevieve Brady, Laetare Medalist, 1934 
The Class of 1914 ox,tends its deepest sympathy to the University in the death of Father O'Donnell. "We knew him as a teacher and a Priest and we all loved and respected him. Notre Dame has lost another great leader. 
Frank Hayes. 

God Bless and comfort the sorrowing family at Notre Dame. Prayers Mother Evaline and the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill. 
Sympathetically we offer our prayers for your esteemed deceased President. St. Meinrad Abbey. 
Jacobo Zobcl and Notre Dame Club of Manila join in sending con­dolence for death of Father O'Donnell. Jacobo Zobel. 
Accept and extend to Fathers of Notre Dame our sincerest sympathy. 
The Mongers 

It is with deep regret that I learn of the death of Father O'Donnell. I sincerely sympathize with the Order and the University in the loss of this great priest and educator. 
Amieto Giovanni Cicognani Apostolic Delegate Accept the expression of my deep sympathy for the members of 
the Community in the death of Father O'Donnell and the assorxnce of 
prayers. Regret I am not able to attend obsequies. 
Francis W. Howard, Bishop of 
Covington. 
Deeply grieved and wish to add our prayers and sympathy for one who lived in the hearts of every Notre Dame roan. The Carroody Family, 
The family of the late Charles McDermott extend to you and all Notre Dame their deepest sympathy in your great loss. Mrs. John McDermott. 
The officers and faculty of the Carnegie Institute of Technology send their sincere condolences in the great loss that has come to your University. 
Thomas S. Baker, President. 
Please accept our prayers and sympathy in the loss of Father O'Donnell. 
Sister Rose 
Very Rev. Father with deepest regret extend sympathy and con­
dolence in your Community's loss sustained in the death of Father 
O'DonnslJ. 
Rev. P. J. Crawley 
Awfully sorry to read of the death of your President. Father 
O'Donnell. Please accept and convey to the Faculty my sincerest 
sympathy in the University of Notre Dame's great loss. 
James T. Rogers. 
To Notre Dame, both faculty and students, I extend my expression 
of sympathy. Unless you knew how I venerated Charles I*. O'Donnell 
as the embodiment of all that makes an ideal priest you would not 
know how much his death saddens me but you dD know how I regarded 
him and so you know the extent and the depth of my feelings today. 
Ned Joyce sends his sympathy also. 
Rev. Thomas J. ^Tackin 

Very sorry to hear of Father O'Donnell's death. Kindly wire time of seiTr'ices. 
C. Roy McCanna 

Accept sympathy of diocese in loss of good Father O'Donnell. May his soul Rest in Peace. Regret that engagements prevent attendance at funeral. 
Bishop Ritter. 

Thanks for your wire. I deeply regret to learn of the passing of Father O'Donnell realizing that it is a great loss* to Notre Dame and the Nation. That his scholarly directed energies should be devoted to .his Alma Mater was a great gift. I jain with the legions in sympathizing with you in the loss of your President. 
John F. Cushing. 

In my own name vnd in that of the University I extend most sin­cere condolences on the death of Father O'Donnell. He was an orna­ment to the Church end to Catholic education and his loss will be deeply felt. iHay he Rest in Peace. We shall have special Requiem Mass for his repose the latter part of the week. 
Most Rev. James H. Ryan 

He has fought a good fight and he has finished his course^ He has kept the Faith, The Purdue flag floats at half mast today to honor his memory. 
Dr. Edward C. Elliott. 

I am indeed sarry to learn of Father O'Donnell's death. A beauti­ful character and a less to all of us. 
J. W. Hannon 
Sincerest sympathy on the death of your noble President. Monsignor Brady. 

My sympathy and condolence go out to the University on the death of one who carried on the traditions of its great Presidents. Bishop Mahoney. 
With profound sorrow I read your note stating that our dear friend. Father O'Donnell. died peacefully early this morning. In yes­terday's Baccalaureate sermon Bishop McNamara told of the Peasant who said to Saint Francis of Assissi make sure that you are as good as people think you arc for many have put their trust in you. AH 
258 . THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS Jtine, 193J^ 
of us who have put our trust in Father O'Donnell knew that he not only measured up to what people thought of him but that he approached perfection in the eyes of God. My sympathy to his family. 
Sergius P. Grace 
Permit me to offer the Holy Gross Fathers and Notre Dame Uni­versity my sincere sympathy. Father O'Donnoll was a great leader, a great man but above all a great priest, I expect to be present at the funeral tomorrow. 
Dr. Walter G. McGuire. 
Sorry to hear of the passing of our President Father 0*DonnclI. Not ^ Dame has lost a personality and I have lost a friend. Sincere sympathy. 
^laurice Goldblatt. 
Accept my heartfelt sympathy at the death of our hero. Mrs. William P. Breen. 
I*Iease accept heartfelt sympathies. This world's loss is Heaven's gain. May his soul Rest in Peace. 
W. J. Edwards, Jr. 
The Anson and Donoghue families join w^ith the Holy Gross Com­munity in sharing the loss sustained through the death of our good friend Father 0*Donnell. Please wire me the time of funeral and if possible I will arrange to attend services. May his soul Rest in Peace. 
George M. Anson. 
A fine Priest and scholar has passed in Father O'Donnell's death. Deepest sympathy from our whole family. Isidore B. Dockweiler. 
Sincerest sympathy and prayers. Sfaurtce B. Kcady. 
On. behalf of the Alumni Association and personally I beg to express to you and to Notre Dame the deep sorrow felt by Notre Dame men everywhere on account of the death of Father 0*Donnell. We shall remember his beautiful soul in prayer and can never forget his many wonderful accomplishments for this beloved Notre Dame. 
Timothy P. Galvin. 
Mrs. Coyle joins me in extending sincere sympathy upon the death of your great President. Kindest personal regards. Frank Coyle. 
We only learned of the passing of our good Father and friend upon my return to Detroit yesterday. Notre Dame has lost a great leader and you your associates Alumni and students the inspiration of a noble character. I regret that it will be impossible for me to attend the services Wednesday to pay my last respects. I am sure I will have a lasting memorj* of his good self. 
Fred J. Fisher. 
Will arrive South Bend 5:40 a.m. Wednesday. 
Rev. Michael J. Shea. 
We send our sympathy to you and the Facultj* of Notre Dame University. Will have three sets of Gregorian Classes for the repose of the soul of Father 0*Donnell. Thanks for the telegram. 
Eward and Estelle Doheny. 
Sincere sympathy on the death of Father O'Donnell. Mass for him tomorrow. Bishop Smith. 
Grieved by death of Father 0*Donnell. Regret inability to attend funeral. Have offered. Ittass. Bishop Cassidy. 
Very grievjcd to leam of President's death. Sly deepest sj-mpathy. Margaret Anglin. 
The Sisters of St. Joseph of Qevcland mourn with you the death of your beloved President, the Reverend Charles O'Donnell, whose message to American youth is a life story vibrant with the achieve­ment of a glorious ideal, for God and Country, 
Mother M. ^lichella. 
In fij-mpathy with officers, faculty. Community, and all friend of Notre Dame we are deeply grieved at the loss of Father O'Donnell. Judge and Mrs. Hammer and Family. 
In the absence of John McCormack whom I cannot reach by cable, please permit me in his name and personally to extend to the faculty and student body a message of very sincere sympathy on the untimely death of our dear friend Father O'DonnelU Mr. l^IcCormack is enroutc from. Africa to England but don't know exact date of departure or name of steamer. 
Dennis F. McSweeney. 
Mr, Hickox and I send our deepest sympathy to Father O'Donnell's relatives and all those who have been closely associated with htm at the University, We greatly regret and mourn the loss of such an admirable man and friend. 
Catherine B. Hickox. 
Grieved and distressed in the news of Father O'Donnell's departure from this life. Please accept for yourself and your Reverend Brethren of Notre Dame my profound sympathy. Your great University has lost an outstanding chieftain in the educational field of the country, an humble and charming personality with a profound intellect and child­like faith, dod rest him in His everlasting arms. 
Joseph Scott, 
Am deeply grieved to hear of the death of Father O'Donnell. My prayers are added to those of other Notre Dame men for repose of his soul. 
Charles P. Neill. 
Joining Notre Dame men over the wx)rld in sympathy and con­dolence. Rev. JL Lu Jloriarty. 
Heartfelt sympathy in death of your distinguished President. Will attend funeral. Arriving tonight. Most Rev. E. F. Hoban. 
It was with extreme regret that I learned of the passing of Father O'Donnell and I want to extend my deepest sympathy not only to his family but to Notre Dame University. His soing is a great loss. 
Edward J. Kelly, Sfayor of Chicago 
Telegram just received. Very sorry to bear of the death of Father O'Donnell. When will the funeral be held. Monsignor Foley. 
Just learned of the death of Father O'Donnell. Our sincere sym­pathy to his family and to Notre Dame. 
A. D. McDonald. 
It is with profound sorrow that I have just learned of the death of Father O'Donnell and I wish to join your many friends in extend­ing deepest sympathy, America has lost one of its greatest educational leaders and thousands of boys a sincere and devoted friend, ilay the inspiration of his splendid leadership carry your fine school on to greater heights. 
Robert C. Graham. 
Telegram received. P/ease convey my heartfelt sjTupathy to Father O'Donnell's family. Wc will all miss him verj* much indeed. 
E. J. Doyle. 
Please convey to the University and Father O'Donnell's family my sincerest sympathy. His was a really great and useful life. Qement G. Mitchell. 
Telegram received and I hasten to extend to you and all who have at heart Notre Dame University my deepest sympathy in the passing away of our distinguished President Rev. Father O'Donnell. In his remarkable vision coupled with his brilliant talents always unspar­ingly given in the interest of Notre Dame and humanity he was Indeed a leader among men and not only has Notre Dame suffered a great loss but the Nation as well. He was a devout priest whose life was such that his soul now rests, we are confident, in peace with the Almighty. 
James J. Phelan. 
To the Very Reverend James A. Bums, C.S.C, and to all at oiu: beloved Notre I extend deepest sympathy in the death of Father O'Donnell the great son of Holy Gross. Soldier, priest, poet» and edu­cator, and a worthy descendant of the princely Red Hugh O'Donnell, Earl of Tirconnell. When such another? 
Ellen Ryan Jolly. 
Deeply grieved over Notre Dame's irreparable loss. A great school has lost a sreat spirit. 
Frederick Tilney 
Dr. Walter 0. laingman. 
Very grateful for your thoughtfulness in sending the grievous news of Father O'Donnell's death. I feel that his great contribution to Notre Dame will be widely acclaimed equally with his notable gifts of mind nnd character. 
Charles D. Maginnis. 
I offer my deepest sympathy to you and to the members of your Community. The death of the beloved President of Notre Dame in the prime of his life takes fnxn the nation a great leader in education and from me a very dear friend. 
Matthew J. Carney. 

June, 1934-THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 259 
A gallant Christian soldier in ail causes that were richteous and a very great figure in the Hfe of our University has become a part of the slofious history of Notre Dame. Notre Dame men in every part of the world will mourn deeply .the passinff of Father O'Donnell and will ioin in prayerful remembrance. 
•Bypon V. Kanaley, Chairman, Board of Lay Trustees'. 
Thank you for your telcKram.' We loved Father 0*Donnell and deeply feel his passing. Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Graham. 
Condolences for this great loss to art. education and religion. Lillian White Spencer. 
I acknowledge the receipt of your telegram informing mc of the death of Father O'Donnell which I regret very much. I send my sympathy to all of you who were so closely associated with him. 
Stanley Field. 

Greatly grieved at your sad news. Please convey to the faculty and members of the Order as well as yourself my sincere sympathy. I much appreciate your advising me. 
Robert Sweeny London, England. 
My sincere sympathy to you on death of Father 0*DonnelI. William J- Carroll. 
The Indiana State Council of the Knights of Columbus in Annual Convention Assembled extends to the Congregation of the Holy Cross and the University of Notre Dame its deepest sorrow on the death of the Reverend Char/es L. O'Donnell, 
Timothy P. Galvin Robert Hilger 
. Lawrence Sexton Eli Abraham James E. Deery John P. Grace. 
The officers and Faculty of the Carnegie Institute of Technology send their sincere condolences in the great loss that has come to your Community. 
Thomas S. Baker, President. 
Realizing the great loss our University has suffered I extend my deepest sympathy. Joe McGraw. 
The University and world have lost a great leader. George E. Cullinan, Jr. 
Deeply grieved to hear of the death of Father O'Donnell. Robert N. Wolf. 
Deepest symi>athy to Notre Dame on their great loss. Peter J. Kasper Family. 
Please accept my sympathy over your personal loss in the death of your friend and chief. Father O'Donnell was one of those magnificent National figures helpful and powerful but unostentatious. His death leaves a lamentable pap in the first line of his generation. 
John T. McGovem. 
I was grieved to Icam of Father O'DonncH's untimely death. May God Rest his courageous soul. Sorry indeed that I, cannot come. We shall have Mass and prayers of our people for him and for you. our benefactor, in your added responsibilities. God be with you. 
W. J. aeary. 

Sincere sympathy to yourself, the Faculty, and the student body 
in the loss of our mutual friend Father O'Donnell. Father P. J. Quinn. Vicksburg, Miss. 
Sorry to hear of Father Charles O'Donnell's death. Most Rev. C. E. Byrne, Bishop of Galveston. 
Please express to Father O'Hara the sympathy and prayers of the Missouri and Rifle Clubs at the passing of our beloved President. John Joe McGrath 
Afost Sincere condolences to all of Notre Dame on their irreparable loss occasioned by the death of the illustrious and beloved Father Charles O'Donnell. Sincerely. 
Maurice J. Smith, University of Santa Clara. 
Deeply grieved. Nctre Dame Club will attend Mass here tomorrow 
morning for our beloved president. Dan Foley, President, Kansas City Club 
Carnegie Tech joins you in bereavement with heartfelt sympathy. John F. LaBoon. 
Sisters at Dumbarton offer heartfelt sympathy and prayers in your bereavement. Sister M. Diego. 
Heartfelt sympathy to you and your Community on the death of 
Father Charles O'Donnell. The prayers of the Sisters of the Holy 
Cross are united to yours in the Hrfy Sacrifice. 
Mother M. Bcttlna and the Sisters 
of the Eastern Province-
Accept our heartfelt sympathy upon the death of Father O'Donnell. 
Mr. and Mrs: John P- McGoorty, Jr. 
The press just notified us of Father Charles O'Donnell's death. The Toledo Notre Dame Club wishes to express its deepest sympathy in our own great loss as well as that of every Notre Dame man who knew our beloved President. The Qub will have Father Robert Gal­lagher. Class *22. say Mass for him at which the members will be present. Please advise us of time of funeral. 
John P. Hurley. Jr., Trustee. . 
The Alumni Federation of Carnegie Institute of Techwrfogy wish 
to express their sincere sympathy in the loss of our dear friend Rev-­
erend Father Charles L. O'Donnell. 
Walter J . Lenko. President. 
Aliunni Federation. 
As a member of the Class of 1903. as a schoolmate ot Father O'Donnell and as a California State Deputy Knights of Columbus I extend sincere sympathy to you and to Notre Dame upon the great loss the University and the Nation has sufTered by Father O'Donnell's death. 
Francis J. Barry. 
Jfay we offer to you and to those who have been associated with the late Father O'Donnell the deep sympathy of the Dempsey family. New Rochelle, New York. 
Edward J. Dempsey, '30. 
The O'ShauRhnessys will long mourn the untimely passing of Father Charles Leo O'Donnell and well they may because of the great and loving friendship he bore for them. We know our loss is shared by millions but it does not still the grief we feel. God rest his beautiful soul. 
James, jrary and Colman O'Shaughnessy. 
Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania deeply regrets the pass­ing of Father O'Donnell. 
E. G. Byrnes, President. 
Father O'Donnell's life was greater than any tribute can attempt to show it. Steve Gavin. 
Our sincere sympathy to all admirers of beloved Father O'DonnelL Madaline and Christy Walsh. 
I wish to extend my sympathy to Father O'Donnell's famllyf to the University of Notre Dame and to the Congregaion of Holy Cross. Jack Baker, *3o. 
The Notre Dome Club of the Connecticut Valley extends deepest sj-mpathy on the death of our beloved Father^ O'Donnell. We mourn the passing of such a noble priest and scholar with soul so close to God. A benevolent man whose himian kindness and guidance were an inspiration, to Notre Dame. The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass will be offered for the happy repose of his soul. 
Thomas E. Ferguson. 
The members of the Notre Dame Club of Oregon wish to express their profound sympathy and sorrow in the death of Father O'Donnell. They will attend Mass at Columbia on Wednesday morning. 
Jim Culligan. 
Reverently we bow to the will of our Eternal Father in taking unto Himself our beloved friend teacher and President, Father O'Donnell. AVe share with you and with all the sons and friends of Notre Dame in the grief that afflicts you and join in your prayers for the very happy repose of his soul. 
Notre Dame Club of New Jersey, 
E. F. Hargan. Secretary. 
I am shocked at the news of the death of dear Father 6'I>3nnelI. Words cannot convey my feelings. May God Bless him for his won­derful work. 
Manuel F . Arias. 
ATy deepest sympathy to all at Notre Dame in the loss of their great leader. Merlin Rolwing. 

Assisting Cardinal 
Hayes at the 
Dedication of the 
Law Building 
(Right) Chaplain, carrying out the great war traditions of the University he loved 
With Gov. Leslie 
and Naval jj 
Academy Heads 
at the Stadium 
Dedication 

At the Golden Jubilee of the Laetare Medal, with John McCormack, Al Smith. Bishop Noll and Dr. James J. Walsh 
HIS ONLY PLEASURE WAS THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME 
Bcstoning an Honorary LL.D. on Onen D. 
Receiving the Medal of the Order of the Crown of Italy from
Young. Sorin, lil^c a benign spirit, 
Consul Castruccio. Fr. John Cavanaugh beams approval
looks on 

With the Board of Lay Trustees at its last meeting, a group which he loved and respected for its unselfish aid to Notre Dame 
262 THE NOTRE 
Members of the Rhode Island Alumni of Notre Dame join in mourn­ing the loss of our beloved University President, Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S,C. To each of us he was a friend and advisor. "We extend our sincere s>Tnpathy. 
Rhode Island Notre Dame Club. Leo R. McAloon. 
The death of Father O'Donnell is a irrcat loss to Notre Dame and Alumni Associations everywhere. The Peoria Qub joins you in this universal sorrow-
Notre Dame Club of Peoria, 
Ernie Hechinger, President. 
We extend sympathy to the University and Community in the loss of Father O'Donnell. Notre Dame Club of Syracuse. 
Wy profound sympathy to you and your colleaffucs. Our country has lost a great leader, a faithful representative of your noble Society whose devoted services to God and country are unparalleled. 
Jerome J. Crowley. 
To the University and Faculty and to the Congregation of Holy Cross express ray sincere condolence on the passing of our beloved President of the University Father O'Donnell. 
Daniel R. Shouvlin, Qass of *14. 
Was shocked to hear of the death of Father O'Donnell. Regret engagements here prevent my attendance at funeral. James E. Deery. 
Dayton Club expresies their deepest sj-mpathy at the passing of Father O'Donnell. We who have had the privilege of knowing him personally can best understand the University's loss of so brilliant a priest, scholar and gentleman. Mass will be read here for the repose of his soul. 
Amos K. Clay. President. 
To Father O'Donncll's relatives and to Notre Dame I offer human condolence on his pari-ing. To Almighty Father I offer my prayers for him and also in thanksgiving that he made a^-ailable to Notre Dame a man of holiness inspiration and accomplishment. I regret my inability to attend the funeral. 
Henry C. Wurzer. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Capitol District extends sincere sj-m­pathy to the University upon' the death of Father Charles L. O'Donnell. Ronald J. McNamee. 
Local Club extends sympathy to Notre Dame in the loss of its able 
and distinguished President, Father O'Donnell. Notre Dame Club of Green Bay. Harold L. Londo, President. 
Thanks for your wire. Mary Margaret and I will attend funeral if possible. Paul Burke. 
Deeply grieved over loss of very dear friend of mine. My prayers with yours in this hour. Jack Chevigny. 
Grieved to hear of Father O'Donnell's death. Accept our heartfelt sympaihy and prayers. Mass will be offered. Mother Mary Francis. 
Our sincerest and most heartfelt condolence on the death of Father 
O'Donnell. Antonio and Eduardo Roxas, Manila, P. I. 
Extremely sorry to learn of death of Father Charles L. O'Donnell. You have my heartfelt sympathy. 
D. M. Nigro. 5I.D. 
Faculty and students extend heartfelt sympathy to the Universitj-. College of Mt. St. Joseph. Cordial symjiaihy from all St. John's University Brooklyn on the 
death of your distinguished President. Very Rev. Edward J. Walsh. CM. Acting President. 
May I express to you my fe^ings of a great loss not only of a . great educator but of a dear friend. Warren Brown. The Qass of '34 deeply mourns the passing of our beloved President. James B. Moscow. 
The Notre Dame Qub of Chicago joins the nation in mourning the irreparable loss to Notre Dame and to the Congregation of Holy Gross and to his family of Father Charles O'Donnell. We each fed a personal loss. 
James F.McNicholas, president. 
 DAME ALUMNUS June, 193^ 
As a classmate of Father O'Donnell, 1901 to 1904 and friend and admirer since I want to express to you and to the University my sympathy over his death and my admiration for his career. 
James R. Record. 

Deeply shocked by demise of Father O'Donnell.* Please express my sympathy to the bereaved. John J. Woeine; 
Heartfelt sympathy for all at Notre Dame. Kindest personal regards. Tom Lieb. Loyola U., Los Angeles. 

Grieved to hear of Notre Dame's loss in the death of Father Charles L. O'Donnell. Every member of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis joins with me in expressing deepest sorrow. 
Harry E. Scott. 

Please accept our heartfelt sympathy at Notre Dame's great loss. Father O'Donnell's name will alwasrs remain an inspiration to us who were privileged to enjoy his friendship. 
Charles L. O'Donnell Poetry Society. Mundelein College. 
Sincere regrets on loss to Notre Dame by death of Father O'Donnell. Rev. Frank Coyle. 

The humble prayers and deep sympathy of the faculty and students of the Aquinas Institute of Rochester go to you and your Community on the death of Notre Dame's President, the Very Reverend Charles 
L. O'Donnell. Father O'Donnell was a Christ-like priest, a cultured scholar, and an efficient educator and a Christian gentleman. The loss to Catholic America is great and your loss is greater. 
Rev. Joseph E. Grady, Principal . 

Dear Father O'Donnell's death is a loss to us, to the University, and to^the country. Francis Dunn and Family. 
I am very borry to hear of the passing of Reverend Father O'Don­nell. I have enjoyed and always will cherish the friendship between us in the years that have gone by. 
Clarence Overend, Graduate Mgr. Carnegie Institute of Technology. 

Our officers and directors hasten to send our condolences in the passing of beloved Father O'Donnell. The world has surely lost a great educator and a real patron of the sports. A great man has passed. We mourn with you. 
Stewart & Ashby Coffee Company, Wm. A. Stewart, President. 

Gar Davidson and his assistants join me in expressing our con­dolences for the death of Father O'Donnell who has done so much in maintaining friendly relations between our respective institutions. 
Major Worsham and Assistants 
Sympathy and promise of prayers from faculty and students. Rosary College. 

West Catholic students and faculty extend sincere sympathy on loss of Notre Dame's beloved President. Brother E. James. 
The sisters of Mundelein College join me in extending heartfelt sympathy to you and to all at the University of Notre Dame in the loss of your beloved Father O'Donnell. A valiant Knight has gone home to God but an army of students and scholars mourn the loss of a thorough scholar, an inspiring poet, and a true religious and friend. Our prayers are for him and to him and for those he has left behind. May he Rest in Peace. 
Sister Mary Justitia. Mundelein College. 

Wish to express my sincere sympathy to you and Notre Dame on the passing of Father O'Donnell. Harry Stuhldreher. 
America flrst and the Church second lost a great citizen and a good friend. Please accept my sincere condolences. John D. Hertz. 
Notre Dame Club New York deeply grieved to learn of Father O'Donnell's death and promise prayerful remembrance. Edward A. Fallon, President 
Very sorry to learn of the death of Father Charles O'Donnell. Dr. L. D. O'Donnell. 

The Notre Dame Club of Houston grieves with the University over the-death of Father O'Donnell. We have lost a dear friend and Notre Dame has lost one of her greatest sons. 
Notre Dame Club Houston. 
M. E. Walter, president. 

June, 19S4 THE NoTEE DAME ALUMNUS 263 
We the friends and Alumni of the University of Notre Dame, wish to express our sincere and personal loss in the passing of Father O'Donnell to his eternal reward. We believe the influence of his ster­ling manhood and Gcdiy life will long survive him on the campus and in the councils of the great university over which he presided. 
Notre Dame Qub of Iililwaukee 
P. Dudley Pearson, president. 
Every member of Boston's Notre Dame Qub feels bitter grief and sorrow at the passing of Father O'Donnell. An instructor and advisor and a great leader. Our friend and our Lady's servant. His memory will serve as a perpetual inspiration to men of Notre Dame through­out the world. 
The Boston Club, 
Jack Slattery. President. 
The Alumni and friends in San Antonio extend to the Faculty and University our sincercst sympathy in the loss of our beloved president. Harold Tynan, president. 
We join our thought's and our prayers with yours in our mutual bereavement in the loss of our beloved President. 
Notre Dame Qub of QeveJand. 
Matthew Trudelle, President. 
The Notre Dame Oub of Springfield joins the University in pray­ers and regrets for the passing of Father O'Donnell. 
Frank Zimmerman, President, 
Notre Dame Qub of Springfield. 
All Notre Dame men in Washington join with you and the Com­munity in sorrow at the Nation's loss in Father O'Donnell's death. A requiem Mass will be celebrated in the Crypt of the National Shrine at Catholic University Saturday morning by Right Reverend Joseph Ryan. Rector of the University, at which all local Notre Dame men and others will be present. Regret inability to attend the funeral. 
James D. Hayes, President, 
Notre Dame Qub Dist. of Columbia 
We join with you in mourning the death of our good friend Father Charles O'Donnell whose life has been a brilliant acihevcment in the service of God's country and education. 
James C. Shaw. President, 
Notre Dame Club of Des Moines. 
Please convey to the Congregation and to the Faculty and students of the University the heartfelt sj-mpathy of the Notre Dame Qub of Los Angeles. 
Thomas H. Heam, President 
The Notre Dame Qub of Joliet wishes to express its sincere sym­pathy to the University in the irreparable loss of Father O'Donnell. A Requiem Mass will be offered for the repose of his soul Wednesday, June 13. 
Thomas Fe?ley. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of greater Cincinnati expresses its deepest sympathy to the University on the loss of its beloved President, Father Charles O'Donnell. A Requiem High Mass is being offered for the repose of his soul by Monsignor R. I^rarccllus Wagner. 
W. D. Morrissey, President. 
The Notre Dame Gub of Detroit extends to you the sincere sym­pathy of all local Alumni in the very great loss of the University and the Congregation of Holy Cross occasioned by the death of Father Charles O'Donnell. 
Notre Dame Club of Detroit, John T. Higgins, president. Conditions prevent my attendance at the funeral which I sincerely regret. George M. Anson. 
The entire state mourns the passing of Father O'Donnell. A val­iant soldier :n the ser\-ice of God and country; an educator of the first rank. His death brings to all of us a deep sense of personal loss. 
Paul V. McNutt 
Deeply grieved at the sad news of the death of Father O'Donnell. 
 regard It as n great loss to the University. 

Alfred E. Smith. 
The President and Faculty of the University of San Francisco realizing the loss to Catholic Priesthood and Catholic culture In the death of Father O'Donnell express to you who feel this loss the most the sincerest sympathy of the Western Jesuits. 
Very Rev. H. E. Ring, S.J. Sincere condolence in your great loss from Bishop and clerg>'. Bishop R. L. Hayes. St. Thomas College extends sincere sympathy to Notre Dame Uni­versity on the death of its distinguished President. Very Rev. James H. Jfoynihan. 
Sincere sympathy is offered the Fathers of the Congregation of 

Holy Cross and the University of Notre Dame in the loss sustained 
by the death of the Reverend Father O'Donnell. 
Sisters of St. Joseph. 
I join with Notre Dame men in Ohio and throughout the United 

States in regretting the untimely passing of Father Ch&rles O'Donndl. 
Education has lost a brilliant figure and the University an extra­
ordinary executive. You have my earnest sympathy. 
George White, Governor of Ohio. 
Deepest sympathy to all in death of my good friend Father. Charles 

O'Donnell. Will attend funeral if possible. 
Monsignor Wnliam J. Flynn, 
Marquette League. New York City. 

I wish to express to you and to the University my deepest sympathy in the loss of Father O'Donnell. Cordell Hull. 
My sincerest sympathy and that of the entire staff here to your­

self and Community and University of Notre Dame on detath of our 
beloved Father O'Donnell. We all admired him as a worthy priest and 
religious, as President of Notre Dame and poet of exceptional gifts. 
Our prayers are for him. 
Very Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.P. 
Permit me to join with the students and Alumni of Notre Dame 

University and the citizens of our State and Nation in expressing a 
deep sense of grief and loss at the passing of the distinguished edu­
cator and scholar Father O'Donnell. The accomplishments and abilities 
of this great teacher and his lovable traits endeared him to all. It will 
be long before the Nation and our State find another to approach 
Father O'Donnell In his character and attainments. Sincerely. 
Frederick Van Nuys, U.S.S. 
1 join the legion of those who truly respected and affectionately ­

admired Father O'Donnell in expressing to you and Notre Dame my 
sincere sympathy upon the great loss his death has brought not only 
to the University and its devoted supporters but also to the Nation. 
He was one of those noble characters and character builders who will 
live far beyond the grave and whoee memory will continue to inspire 
the many who have come under the spell of his genius, 
Henry Horner, Governor of Illinois 

Speaking for the North Central Association of Gilleges and Sec­ondary Schools and the Ohio State University express tribute to the memory of President O'Donnell of Notre Dame University. His modest simplicity, personal greatness and conscientious efforts on behalf of higher education were the traits which made his life so meaningful and rich in achievement. 
B. L. Stradley, president. North Central Association 

All at DePaul join in expressing our profound sympathy to Notre Dame in Father O'Dcnnell's death. A heavy loss to you and American Catholic education when strong leadership is needed. His career Is our glory. Requiescat. 
Very Rev. F. V. Corcoran, 
President DePaul University, 

Archbishop John J. Alitty joins me in sending you our expression of deepest sympathy in your great loss. Most Rev. Edward J. Hanna, DJ). 
I oiTer my sincerest sympathy to you. Faculty, and students of Notre Dame. Please advise funeral arrangements. Shall be present personally or if Impossible will send representative, 
Daniel J. McGrath, Consul 
Irish Free State 

The trustees, officers, and faculty of the University of Chicago join me in extending deepest sympathy to the Faculty and students of • Notre Dame University on the death of Father O'Donnell, 
Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins, 
President, Univ. of Chicago. 

Baltimore sympathizes with Community in the great loss it has sustained by the death of Father O'Donnell. Archbishop Curlcy. 
Niagara University shares your sorrow. We mourn the loss of an edifying Priest an inspirational author and sound educator. 
Very Rev. Joseph M. Noonan, CJM. 
President, Niagara University. 

The Faculty and students of Notre Dame have my sincere sympathy in the death of distinguished son and leader. David I. Walsh. U. S. Senate. 
264 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Jttne, 1934 
The Clinic Faculty joins me in cxtendini; sympathy to the members of Notre Dame in the loss of their President the beloved educator, counselor, and minister to his flock. 
Charles H. Mayo, M.D. 
May I assure you and Notre Dame University of my sympathy and deep sense of loss personally and in behalf of Northwestern Univer­sity at the death of Father O'Donnell. 
Dr. Walter Dill Soott, 
President. Northwestern University 
Please express to the University authorities and friends of Father 0*Donnoll my deep sense of their loss, I have mj-self lost in him one of my most beloved friends. 
Aline Kilmer. 
May I extend the sympathy of all Wabash men in the hour of Notre Dame*s bereavunont. Father O'Donnell was a creat educator and a fine citizen. His death is a loss to education and to all good works. 
Dr. L. B. Hopkins, 
President, Wabash College. 
Please accept ray S5*mpathy for you and your Community in the death of Father O'Donnell. 
Bishop Alter, Toledo. Ohio 
It is with much rcRret that I have your telegram announcing the death of your President. Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell. Notre Dame has lost a distinguished representative of Catholic education arid a great American, esteemed by all who knew him. I share with you and your associates my sincere sorrow in your bereavement. 
James A. Farrell 
Sincercst sympathy on Notre Dame's bereavement. Father O'Don­nell will be long remembered for his outstanding service to religion and education. May his noble soul Rest in Peace. Monsignor Foley will represent me at funeral. 
Cardinal Hayes. 
The death of Father O'Donnell is a great Joss to the Church and the educational world. I deeply regret my inability to attend his funeral. For the eternal repose of his soul I shall celebrate Mass to­morrow. Profoundest s>'mpathies. 
Bishop Conroy, Ogdensburg, N.Y. 
Am very sorry to hear of the death of Very Rev. Father O'Donnell. His death is a great loss to your institution and to all of the institu­tions of your kind in America. He was an outstanding educator in America, and his death will bo felt by the Universities of our country. I wish to express my sympathy to that that will be expressed by persons of prominence all over the Nation. May God keep his memory in affection. 
Most Rev.. Thomas F. X.illis. 
Bishop of Kansas Cit>'. 
I send you and your associates at Notre Dame my deepest sympathy in the loss of Father O'Donnell, It was a great privilege to have known him for which I shall be ever thankful. 
Owen D. Young. 
It is with most deep regret that I learn of the death of President O'Donnell and I wish to express to his family and associates my most sincere s>*mpathy. 
P. E. Crowley. 
I am' deeply touched at the passing of Father O'Donnell. I had the greatest admiration for him as* a man and as an outstanding leader in the field of eduction. The accomplishments of his administration at Notre Dame will stand for many years to come. 
Ernest R. Graham. 
Please accept my sincere condolences for the death of our dear friend Father O'DonnclL I am sure he will be missed by all who had the pleasure of knowing him. 
G. Castruccio 
I expend my deepest sympathy to you, the Faculty, and student body of the University of Notre Dame in the loss and sorrow f>cca­sioned by the death of Father Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C, its beloved President. 
Martin C. Carmody, Sup. Knight, 
Knights of Columbus. 
Deepest sympathy from I»yola Community. Remembrance in Masses and pra>*ers. Rev. S, K. Wilson. S.J. 
I shall attend the funeral. Five Jfasses will be offered for the repose of his soul. Sincerely. Rev. Charles E. Caughlin. 
Deeply grieved over the death of the beloved Father O'Donnell. 
Regret I cannot attend the funeral. Will read Mass for him tomorrow. Most Rev. John Mark Gannon, Bishop of Eric. 
St. Viator's College sympathizes deeply with Notre Dame in her irreparable loss. We will remember Father O'Donnell in our prayers and Alasses, 
Rev. J. W. R. Maguire, president. 
Please accept my sincere sympathy in your bereavement. Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. A. Solon. DeKalb, Illinois. 
The University of Detroit joins Notre Dame in mourning the untimely death of Father O'Donnell. Chtholic education has lost a great leader. 
Rev. A. H. Poetker. S.J.. President 
I kneel and condole with Notre Dame beside the mortal remains 
of Father O'Donnell. Most Rev. Charles D. White. Bishop of Spokane. 
Sincere sympathy from Duquesne University in the loss of your President. 
Very Rev. J. J. Callahan, President 
Father O'Donnell's death is a great loss not only to Notre Dame but to America and especially to the youth of America. Dr. Stephen J. Mahcr. 
Board of Trustees, Faculty and students of DePauw University join mc in sincercst sympathy. £Iducation has lost a distinguished leader in the passing of Father O'Donnell. Will you not express our sym­pathy to the students and Faculty of Notre Dame. 
Dr. G. Bromley Oxnam. president 
Deeply distressed. Received your telegram anouncing the death of your beloved President, Not only Notre Dame in particular but the cause of education in general has suffered a great loss in Father O'Donnell's passing. Please accept our expression of deepest sympathy. 
General L. R. Gignilliat, Culver Military Academy. 
Profoundly grieved to leam of the death of Father O'Donnell. Rejoice in the great scr\'ice he has rendered and through his influence will continue to render to his fellowmen. 
Dr. William Lowe Bo'an, President, Indiana University 
The corps of cadets and officers of the United States Mililtary Academy join me in extending deepest sympathy to the undergradu­ates and Faculty of Notre Dame Unii-ersitj- in this sad hour caused by the passing of Ftther Charles Leo O'Donnell. You have lost a fine straight thinking much loved executive. We have lost a true friend. 
Major General Wm. D. Connor, 
U. S. Army Superintendent. 
The death of Father O'Donnell brings great sorrow to us all. I w^nt to express to sx>u and to the University of Notre Dame how deeply I sympathize with you in your great loss: 
James F, Carroll. 
Am shocked beyond words at the untimely passing of Father O'Donnell. It cannot be more than a year since Jack Kenny and I played handball with him at the New York Athletic club one Sunday afternoon and he seemed then to be in good health and the best of spirits. I shall remember Father O'Donnell always as one of those geniuses who knew how to carry on the inspired work of a priest and 
• at the same i-ime be ccnsidered among his friends as an outstanding good fellow Mrs. Cusick and I will remember him in our prayers. 
A. J. Cusick. 
Greatly grieved. Received your telegram. Regret inability to attend funeral. Ed Fallon 
Club sends sympathy to Notre Dame on the passing of a truly 
great man. Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, Wm. A. Reisert, Jr.. President 
Alumni of Northern California regret exceedingly to leam of Father O'Donnell's death. Our deepest respect love and admiration for his excellent example and able leadership will remain constantly before us. The University has suffered a great loss but his memory is another valuable heritage to hand don'n. 
Ro^-al H. Bosshard. 

June, 1934 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 265 
/ \ Kesume OF The Ninetieth Annual Commencement 
Dignity, Solemnity, Achievement and Friendship Mark the Exercises of June 1, 2 and 3; Alumni Return in Large Numbers and From Far Places 
- The Ninetieth Annual Commence­ment Exercises of the University of Notre Dame were held on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, June 1, 2 and 
3. Somewhat hushed by the im­minence of the death of the Presi­dent, they nevertheless enjoyed that warmth of Notre Dame spirit which calls for no sacrifice of solemnity. 
From the alumni angle, it was par­
ticularly pleasing to see so many 
alumni back, from all classes and 
from near and far. This is the hope 
of every Commencement. Eeunion 
Classes supply a nucleus. But Com­
mencement is a source of general 
satisfaction to every alumnus who 
finds an epportunity to attend. 
Highlights of the Commencement 
are treated in other portions of this 
issue — the Commencement Address 
of the Honorable Prank C. Walker, 
member of the Silver Jubilee Class of 
1909, the brilliant Baccalaureate Ser­
mon of the Most Reverend John M. 
McNamara, the Alumni Banquet Ad­
dress of the Rev. John F. O'Hara, 
C.S.C., and the sports review of the 
week-end, featuring the First Annual 
Notre Dame National Catholic Inter­
scholastic Track and Field Meet. 
Here are recorded the many other 
events, all important, which made the 
three days a period of pleasure and 
accomplishment. 
Friday, June 1 

Never before was there such a 
heavy registration of alumni and 
guests on Friday. Alumni and Mor­
rissey Halls were reserved for the re­
turning graduates, Dillon Hall for 
guests. 
The beautiful 18-Hole University Golf Course found an early and en­thusiastic patronage. The Alumni Tournament, run this year on an 18-hole medal play arrangement for convenience, was won by two former stars of the Notre Dame golf firma­ment, Fran Beaupre, '31, Detroit, and Larry MoUer, '31, Quincy, 111., who tied with 75s. Some arrangement is anticipated for next year whereby a handicap system can be invoked, since the present method almost confines the trophy to former varsity golfers. Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, '18, faculty golf champion and varsity golf coach, conducted the tournament. 
At 12:45 the Class of '34 assem­bled in Washington Hall for the last address of the president of the Uni­versity, delivered this year by Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, acting president. 
Two o'clock found the baseball team on Cartier Field, matching skill with Wisconsin. With a Frank MeiTi­well finish, Notre Dame treated the early arrivals to a victory over the Big Ten team. 
At 6:45 campus visitors learned the reason for the triumphs of the 1933-34 University Band in various appearances of the year, most recent­ly the Blossom Festival at Benton Harbor, Mich., and the opening of the 1934 Century of Progress in Chicago. With a generous and varied reper­toire, the Band played from the porch of the Main Building to a large crowd assembled in the Quadrangle. Joseph 
J. Casasanta, '23, conducted. At 8:15 Friday evening, in Wash­ington Hall, Prof. Casasanta, who re­sembles Nick Carter in his ability to change costume, emerged a changed man to direct his equally brilliant Glee Club in songs which have charmed a nation by concert, record and radio during the school year. Closing the harmonious evening, and opening, they tell me, the follow^ ing morning's px'ogram, the Class of 1929 held its 5-Year Reunion party in the nature of a late evening ses­sion with a midnight lunch, in the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. Class Secretary Joseph P. McNamara and the active local committee, head­ed by Francis Jones, forgot political 
party lines for the good of the '29 
party. 
Saturday, June 2 
Mass in Sacred Heart Church Sat­urday, June 2 for the deceased alum­ni opened the official Saturday pro­gram. Rev. John A. MacNamara, '97, was celebrant of the Solemn Re­quiem High Mass, with Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., '11, master of ceremonies. Rev, William H. Mo­lony, C.S.C, '07, and Rev. Edward _A. Keller, C.S.C, '27, were deacons. 
At 9:30 the Class of 1934 again, assembled in cap and gown for the beautiful ceremony of the Last Visit in Sacred Heart Church, presided over this year by the Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C, '04. 
Ten o'clock found the Class gath­ered in Washington Hall for the Class day exercises and the Awarding of Honors. James V. Moscow, presi­dent of the Class, gave the address of welcome to guests. Hugh P. Fitz­gerald was Class Orator, Thomas J. Stritch, Jr., Class Poet, and Charles 
N. Heckelraann, the Valedictorian. The University Orchestra, under the direction of Prof. Richard Seidel pro­vided a musical setting. Honors were awarded as follows: 
MEDALS AND PRIZES . 
1. The Breen Medal, for excel­lence in oratory (presented by the late William P. Breen, '77), to James 
J. Boyle, Hubbard, Ohio. 
2.
 The Meehan Gold Medal, for the best essay in English, to Clyde P. Craine, Detroit, Michigan. 

3.
 The Electrical Engineering Medal, for general excellence in the electrical engineering program, (pre­sented by Dr. Jose A. Caparo, '08), to William H. Promm, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

4.
 The Martin McCue Medal, for general excellence in the civil en­gineering program, to David B. Hen­nessy, Rochester, New York. 

5.
 The Lehn and Fink Medal for Pharmacy to William J. Kenney, Charleston, West Virginia. 

6.
 The Monsignor P. A. O'Brien Prize, for a special study and distinc­tion in a historical subect, to Robert 


E. Ward, Peoria, Illinois. 
7.
 The Meyers Burse, for general excellence in the Department, of Journalism, to Charles H. Heckel­mann, Hempstead, New York. 

8.
 The William Mitchell Award for Playwriting to William H. Tou­rney, New York City. 

9.
 The Miles O'Brien Prize, for excellence in mechanical drawing, to Paul J. Martersteck, South Bend, In­diana. 

10.
 The John J. O'Brien Prize, for excellence in shopwork, to Cyrus L. Foote, North Liberty, Indiana. 

11.
 The Gallitzen A. Farabaugh Prize, for high legal scholastic achievement in the College, of Law, to Thomas L. McDevitt, Ironwood, Michigan. 

12.
 The Hoynes Award, for the graduating law student who has the highest average in scholastic grades, application, deportment, and achieve­ment, together with fitting qu^fica­tions for admission to the bar and to the practice of law, to William T. Kirby, Waukegan, Illinois. 

13.
 The Bjrron V. Kanaley Award, for the senior monogram athlete who has been adjudged most exemplary as a student and as a leader of men, to Joseph A. Young, Glen Ridge, New Jersey. 

14.
 The Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago Award, for the student who has obtained the highest average for the last three years of the college course from which he is graduated, to Fran­cis L. Linton, Chicago. 

15.
 The Architecture Medal, for 


the student who has the highest aver­(Continued on Page 284) 

Top, the Mass; upper left. Bishop McNamara, Secretary Hull, The Delegate and Fr- O'Hara; upper right, the Commencement platform; lower left, familiar faces at the Alumni Banquet; lower right. Dr. Frank C. Walker, '09, Gov. Paul McNutt, and Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, at Commencement; bottom, the gymnasium during the Mass. 
June, 1934 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Commencement Address Delivered by Frank C. Walker, '09 
Executive Director of National Emergency Council and Member of the Silver Jubilee Class Offers to Class of 1934 
Timely and Authoritative Advice on Affairs of 
TVTien word came to me some two months ago that I had been chosen to address this year's graduating class of the University of Notre Dame, I was both proud and happy. 
Who in this vast country of ours would not feel distinctly honored in being called to America's greatest Catholic university on so important a mission? As I have contemplated it almost each day since, I want you to know that a full realization has come to me of the deep obligation that is and has been mine to Notre Dame these many years past. 
It was on this beautiful campus, within these hallowed walls, that I spent three of the happiest years of my life. It was here, under the guid­ance of those sterling men of the Congregation of Holy Cross, that I was instructed in the elements of logic and law, and had unfolded to me a fine and clean and wholesome philosophy of life. Daily was I given oppoi-tunity to listen to words of wis­dom and kindly ad\'ice from learned and scholarly men. Continuously throughout those three years it was impressed upon me by those good men, in word, and deed and their OAvn right.living, that correct ethics, fine ideals and fear of God were basic and fundamental thoughts at Notre Dame. 
With it all there was a kindliness; and refinement, and a culture that softened the baser things in men, and about it all there was something that inspired a loyalty, a devotion and a real afi'ection, the like of which I be­lieve is found in no other spot. There was a closeness, a hominess, an un­derstanding between the faculty and the men of Notre Dame that bound them together and inspired their stu­dent body to real effort and accom­plishment. 
Fortunate indeed are those who passed through the halls of Notre Dame in the days of such splendid men as Fathers Morrissey, Burns, French and Hudson, Crumley, Schu­macher, Walsh, Maloney, and the most brilliant of them all, the dean of deans, dear Father John Cavanaugh. 
My heart is filled to overflowing with gratitude to Notre Dame for what she has done for me and for the honor she now gives to me. For whatever worthwhile I have attained in life, if anything, I stand wholly in­debted to my good mother, to my sweet wife, and to Notre Dame. Notre Dame, you have my heartfelt appreciation. 
I said that I felt a deep sense of obligation to Notre Dame and to her faculty; so, too, do I feel a great re­sponsibility to you men of Notre Dame. 
Your faculty has given to me the mission to convey to you at the most serious and important turning point 

^^^^^^BE^^''" 
^^^^HH^'-T" ^^^^^BK9SA-V^ 
^^^^^^Bi^'.:• -•• 
^^^•&-^.--%^v 
^^•^«| 
wg^^Sm. 


1\^M

w 
-:W 

-%. --V^^^^^l 
-Jv •'.. 
.p-^^^m
;;.-£' ^^^1 

FRANK C. WALKER, '09 
Commencemenl Speaker 
in your lives a message which should serve to bring you to a full realiza­tion of the significant and realistic venture upon which you are about to embark. 
I know full well how critical is my audience, for twenty-five years ago at this veiy time I listened with no great enthusiasm to a commencement address, and, as I remember it, we all accepted it in a more or less perfunc­tory manner, as a necessarj' part of the program and one of the things that just must be done. 
I shall attempt no thesis and I hope I shall avoid the field of philosophical disquisition. Rather, shall I make a few observations based upon my somewhat limited experience, and point out to you some of the more glaring social and economic errors common to many of us, and then try to persuade you that ahead of you lies great opportunity to do some­thing worthwhile for your own hap­piness and for the general welfare. 
As I look back over the years, 


 State 
there comes to me the one thought that I would have you who are start­ing your careers always keep before you. It is this. Too many of us start out upon our careers with no definite plans made—no real fixity of purpose—no vision or serious thought as to whither we are bound. 
Before determining upon your ob­jective—survey well your field—look back upon the experiences of those who have gone before you, particu­larly in the generation immediately preceding yours. 
Analyze most seriously their at­tainments — examine closely their most glaring mistakes. Look to their good qualities, ponder over their evils. For these are fast changing times, and the things that motivated men yesterday have little place in the present scheme of things. 
He who sets out with a definite ob­
jective, clearly visioned, begins with 
gi-eat advantage over his fellows. 
I say these are fast changing times, 
yes, and the philosophy that guided 
men is fast changing with them. 
If there is one indictment that may 
be justly returned against the present 
generation, it is the one that we have 
placed too high a valuation upon the 
material things of life. 
Success, as most of us saw it when we left college, contemplated, of course, some professional attainment, some measure of culture and some conception of social values, but its main concomitant was riches and the power which they brought. 
If the pain and anguish attendant upon these years have taught us any­thing, if we are to hope for a real lesson from it all, it is the one lesson that true success is based on higher and truer standards than those that have strikingly prevailed in the last two decades. 
In charting your course you are 
doing it in the hope that success lies 
ahead. Have no foolish notion that 
true success will be attained by sel­
fishness and utter disregard of the 
rights of others. 
True success and real happiness 
will only come to him who applies 
the correct standard of economic and 
social justice. 
You should not look for excessive 
advantages and strive to attain them 
by sacrificing the rights of others. 
Rather should you keep uppermost in 
your mind your duty to your fellow­
man and to your government. 
This is still the land of vast re­
/line, 19Si

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
sources and great wealth and iine op­portunity. 
We still retain, and, I pray God, always shall retain the right to own and possess property — the right to fair compensation for service, the right to rise from want and povertjy, but we, too, have an obligation to our fellowman and to society. 
Many of us who have gone out before you have been negligent in fulfilling the obligation that has been ours. We have thought too much of our own affairs and our own attain­ments. We have shown a woeful lack of interest in those around us, and a shameful lack of interest in our gov­ernment. 
Too many of us accept the bene­fits of democracy and refuse to ac­cept its obligations. 
If our democracy has a tinge of decadency, it is because its aristo­crats, reluctant to permit changes which would dispossess them from the seats of the mighty, fail to accept the responsibility for those altera­tions necessary, not only to democ­racy's revival, but to their own. 
It has not been the vogue in our country these past twenty-five years to interest one in his fellow man or his state. 
This tendency on the part of our people is one of our greatest weak­nesses, and I venture the suggestion that, if the men who had attained high place in industry, in finance and business had devoted a fair portion of their time and talents to some conception of the rights of others, and had given some thought and at­tention to their government—the se­verity of the blow which we have recently suffered would surely have been lessened, if not entirely stayed. 
I cannot impress upon you too strongly the thought that in striving to reach the goal for which you should now make your plans, you should always keep in mind the obli­gation that is yours to society. If you are to have a full and rounded out career and a complete and happy life, you must in this particular day and age recognize this obligation and see to its absolute fulfillment. 
The interdependence of govern­ment, home and business has not been adequately recognized by the average American. He has not re­alized the close relationship and the important effect of government upon the others. 
The average leader in education, in finance, in business and industry has in the last twenty-five years made manifest an indifference in this re­spect, that amounts almost to crimi­nal negligence. 
It is a sad commentarj', is it not, that fifty per cent of our citizenry fails to exercise the right of fran­chise at election time, and that a much higher percentage fails to reg­ister its opinion in the primary? 
In all our acute problems and crises in Government our leading citizenry criticize our officials and our institutions and take little active part in correcting conditions. 
Then, too, a large proportion of our so-called intellectuals and a good majority of so styled leading men, devote much of their time to satisfy­ing themselves and persuading their fellow man that the fine and noble duty of serv-ice to their government is degrading and beneath their moral and intellectual standards. 
It is tragic but true that tliis ex­traordinary mental attitude has been permitted to carry on throughout the length and breadth of the land. It has shattered fine ideals, diverted our fine youth from the path of duty, and is gnawing on the very vitals of our institutions. Is this not a mis­conception of the duties that go •with citizenship ? 
Until today a man of affairs has felt that his own industry, his own bank and his own field of commerce must needs be the limit of his thoughts and endeavors. It is only 
•when he is suddenly and directly af­fected by drastic police regulations, by threatened legislation, or by fear of some unusual taxation that his in­terest is awakened. 
It is true that there was a rude and short-lived awakening some eight­een months since when a certain co­terie, by their own bankruptcy of ideas, led this nation to a state of almost financial collapse. 
How zealous were they then, in their hopeless and helpless fashion, to look for a leadership that -was not theirs to take up the hea^vy burden of restoration. With what relief did they, who had wasted their God-given talents, look •with faith and hope to one who had equipped him­self well for the task, to one who had a fine sense of obligation to his fellowmen and to his country. 
I shall not make the argument that you should look to government for your career, though I shall make some comment concerning that. I do call out to you in all sincerity, that if democracy is to survive, the com­ing generation must have a full re­alization of its obligation to society and to government. 
The intense development of our industrial civilization has brought with it complicated social and eco­nomic problems that challenge the intellects of our colleges and our uni­versities. The nation looks to you and your type—^well-equipped as you are in the arts, in culture and in cor­rect philosophy—^to pro^vide the nec­essary leadership. 
Whether you dedicate yourself to the arts or to the sciences, to finance, industry, or the professions, you must, if you will obtain true success, have an understanding of the paramount social and economic problems that confront us as a people, and you should and must devote much of your time and talents to aiding in their correct solution. 
The peoples of the world are be­
•wildered•with the confusion of it all. Kingdoms have been overthrown, dic­tators have risen up and have been accepted in the hope of a new and better order. A long suffering host embraces Communism and makes in­tense sacrifices as it looks longingly and hopelessly for a relief from its anguish. 
Republics are in a state of revolt and democracy hangs in the balance. This unhappy condition has come be­cause the instrumentalities of state have been manipulated against pub­lic good, because there has been in­efficiency and corruption in public office, because those who should have allied themselves to improve this con­dition have not done so, but have gone their own selfish way with a shameful lack of responsibility to and a gross detachment from social and economic problems. 
When you leave the refining and steadying influences of your Alma Mater for your home community, there to engage in business or your profession, you will quickly recog­nize how closely identified yith your own life are the social and state problems. You will come in direct contact •with the many varieties of government activity, the town, the village, county, city and state. You will be bewildered by the complexity of school districts, sanitary boards, health departments, power, and wa­ter and light, and park commissions. You •will find a multiplicity of the agencies of government, all jealous of their own prerogatives, anxious to broaden their authority, confused by their o^wn overlapping. If you give the matter much thought, and surely you should, for you and your families and your business are certain to be most seriously affected, you will re­alize that only proper and orderly administration •will protect you and your country. 
Do you appreciate that 60 per cent of the tax dollar goes to local gov­ernment, many units of which over­lap and a large proportion of •which are archaic and unnecessary? Do you know that there is in the United States 175,000 separate and distinct governing bodies, of which, of course, the vast bulk are local in nature? Within 50 miles of the center of the midwest metropolis there are 1,642 
(Continued on Page 285) 

June, 1934. THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 269 

Baccalaureate Sermon by The Most Rev. J. M . McNamara 
Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore Warns Graduates Against Spirit of Greed and Selfishness Which Permeates the World and Recommends Notre Dame Spirit of Self-Sacrifice and Love 
The continued existence of the Catholic church is to the world an insoluble mystery. There is no in­stitution in the history of mankind that has withstood so many assaults from its enemies and so many be­trayals by its friends. There are a thousand reasons why it should have died with the centuries. There is only one which explains its survival through the years. It is Pentecost. With the coming of the Holy Ghost the work of the Church began and because of His abiding presence, that work will continue to the end of time. On Pentecost, the Apostles went forth to conquer a world by which they had been overcome, to bring men in search of life to the very cross from which they- themselves had fled in fear of death. It was then the seed was sown from which this university has sprung since it exists for no other purpose than to continue the work begun by the apos­tles in the face of a hostile world. As sons of Notre Dame, as members, and, therefore, as a part of the church, you are under obligations to do a part of the work. 
We are living in troublous days; we are appalled at the wi-eckage left by selfishness and greed. To untold thousands the memories of happier hours are as ghostly phantoms and the echoes of former boastings as dirges for the dead. Only a few years ago as a people, we sat as one on top of the world, but we have learned to our sorrow, that what we thought was a throne is only the edge of a pit, from which we may now view at our leisure the ruins of an­other Babel's tower. And the ruins are ^vit^ess that, as a nation, we have ignored a solemn and a sacred warn­ing, "Know thou and see that it is an evil and a bitter thing for thee to have left the Lord thy God."— Jer. C. 2 V. 19. 
For years past the nation has been dominated by a philosophy of life that makes man all sufficient to him­self. Youth has come forth from college and university persuaded that he needs no other light for his feet than human knowledge. Believing, that he is no longer bound by the shackles of what he would call an outworn creed, his heart hungry with desire may feed where it wills. There must be no repression and only as much of restraint as is necessary to keep ^\ithin the pale of society. In the name of progress, he rejects the tenets of his fathers regarding the name of the new freedom he patron­izes the literature and the stage which has disgraced us before the world, and it has come to pass that while the leper is driven into seclu­sion, the leper's soul is made a wel­come guest in the home. Even the 
MOST REV. JOHN M. MCNAMARA, DJ). 
Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore 
children applaud when, surrounded by the glamor of the stage or screen, he imparts the deadly lesson that de­sire is the only standard of morals and wealth the only measure of man. Such has been the seed of our sow­ing and today w^e are reaping the hai-vest in contempt for the laws of God and man, and disregard for hu­man life in greed that mocks at jus­tice, for millions of people, in no other rule of life than "whatever I like is right." 
Even in this hour, fraught ^vith peril, selfishness and greed batten like leeches on the vitals of the na­tion. They are in counting room and money mart and in halls of legis­lation where they are denounced bit­terly, but without sincerity, by those who act primarily with a view to their own political fortunes. Nor are. they peculiar to any state or condi­tion of life. They are as much at home in the cottage as in the palace since in both will be found the prod­ucts of a training which ignores char­acter as the greatest assets of a na­tion, and emphasizes success and pleasures as the ends of life. 
And so, at a time which calls for 
love and sacrifice, we behold the un­holy spectacle of man against man and of group against group, each de­manding of the other a sacrifice which neither will make for the good of all. And the reason, in the words of the Honorable Secretary of State, is because "We have proceeded to abandon the ideas and ideals that di­rected us through former periods and former generations. We have de­parted from all those wonderful standards to which we had been ac­customed to adhere so that today all the nations of the world, including our own, have no fundamentals, po­litical, moral, or economic." 
Thus speaks one who knows of an era which some have labelled a cen­tury of progress. And it is futile to hope for improvement as long as ed­ucators who ignore the human soul persist in their folly. If youth is taught that he is only an animal it is too much to expect him to live as a man. 
This is the situation that confronts you today, and it is your duty to meet it as Catholics and Americans. To the weakling it is a challenge which will overwhelm him at the out­set and make him as one of the crowd. But you are men of faith and courage and we expect you to lead in response to the call of the vicar of Christ for action. You can not hold back if you value your faith and would do your part by the na­tion and the world. 
Back of the ills which scourge mankind is a robbery. Man has robbed God of the love which is His due, and until amends are made love perverted will fester in his soul and pour out corruption and pestilence .upon the world. Today paganism sweeps through the world like a flood and the vicar of Christ gives warn­ing that, left unchecked, it will en­gulf our civilization. Pius XI is in touch with the nations of the earth. He sees as do few others the evils present and to come from a philoso­phy of life which has no place for God. To regard warning as a mere pious exhortation is not only to jeop­ardize your rights and the rights of the Church, but to hasten the day when earth will demand of you the homage that you owe only to God. The persistent efforts of those who would make congress a party to the degredation of marriage and the pub­lic mails a carrier of moral defile­

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS June, 19Si 
ment to our homes are warnings. The legislation now in force in sev­eral states to deprive the weak and helpless of their i-ight to maintain the integrity of the human body may be only a presage of legislation to come. You have no reason to feel secure in your ease the while you view with complacency the thrall­dom of other peoples. More and more challenging are the threats of those who will have no king but Caesar and the thought of what they have accomplished at home and abroad may well give us pause. Wherever religion lies crushed today, tyranny has been enthroned. In this very hour, for millions of people, there is no choice between the will of despots and imprisonment or death. Within your own memories and in more than one country libeity has been slain, and the pity of it is that the Father of Christendom has been all but alone in his protests against the tyrannies which have replaced it. He is now the outstanding champion of the rights of men, and if progress means what it meant to the founders of this nation, to go forward and 
overcome, rather than surrender to the obstacles that block the way, who will deny that he is its strongest ad­vocate? 
He has upheld the rights of parents to educate their children as against the claims of the state which would take them from the paternal arms; against those who from motives of ease and self indulgence would de­grade and finally destroy the society of which they are a part. He has de­fended the sanctity of marriage and the integrity of the home. As op­posed to those who would conduct their business with a view only to their own enrichment, he has main­tained that every man as a member of the human family has obligations to his fellows which he dare not dis­dain; and now he calls on you to unite •with him for progress through effort as against decadence through self indulgence for the righteous lib­erty of the individual as against the unfair demands of the state; for so­cial justice as against those who would ask with Cain, "Am I my brother's keeper?" In a word, for the preservation as against the de­struction of the sanctities of life. 
In a day that gives little heed to spiritual values, yours is no easy task. It means loyalty to Catholic principles and ideals regardless of the cost. In the world of politics and business it means willingness to forego honors and wealth; in compe­tition with the unscrupulous it means loss and yet a loss to be counted as gain because suffered for Christ. In a word, it means the cross which be­fore this very altar you have ac­claimed as the hope of the world. To those who look with carnal eye, the cross of Christ is only a withered tree the flower of which is dead. It is your high privilege and dutj' to prove that it still lives and that its fruit may be seen in your lives. It was the cross that gave a name to the Congregation of devoted men who direct the destinies of this univer­sit}'. It is the cross that gives life to Notre Dame and onlj' in so far as you make that life your own and de­sire to share it with others are you her sons. It is now nineteen hundred yeai-s since Christ ascended the cross, and, in ascending, lifted the world out of the depths of misery and woe. Today that world looks as though it had fallen out of His arms. It is dis­figured by many sins and bleeding from many wounds. It can be re­stored and healed only in the Blood of Christ. To bring it back to the cross is the work of the Church but the Church, under God, functions through men. Who then, we ask, will sen'e as the hands that will raise it up and the feet that will carry it back if not you who see with St. Paul that you are the members of the Body of Christ. 
You will now go forth to town and city where lie your field of action and there, we trust, you will prove an answer to the prayer of the saint­ly Pius X, of happy memory, for what he said was most necessary to save societj', "A group of laymen in every parish, virtuous, enlightened, determined, and really apostolic." The crjing need of the parish as well as of the Church at large is for men who are willing to lead; and should you mistrust your talents remember that \'irtue also has its claims. Never did Lacordaire, at the height of his fame, address such thousands as sat at the feet of the Cure of -AJS. When the learned wondered, and asked the reason why, it was an humble peas­ant who gave the answer. "What," he was asked, "did you see at Ars?" -A-nd he replied, "I saw God in a man." IE men see Christ in you, they will follow where you lead. They are hungering for what Christ in His church has to give through you and you can not and will not fail them whether ^rithin or without the Fold, if you respond to the call of the vicar of Christ for Catholic Action. 
Today the Church counts, under the flag of this nation, not less than 20,000,000 souls and if they had the courage of their convictions they would prove a tremendous force in moulding the thought and life of the nation. In numbers, the early Chris­tians were few, but they made their faith their philosophy of life and won a world for Christ, and if you who share their faith would give evidence of their daring, you would have a part in ^\•inning the world back to Christ. 
You can not remain indifferent while the Church is slandered and maligned. You can not and will not fail to defend the rights of the Church, but you will remember al­ways that the most effective argu­ment for the Catholic cause is a Catholic life. You may utter pro­tests, it is true, against tyranny and injustice; you may condemn the sa­lacious play, the unclean picture and the practices which degrade society, but your words, unless backed by deeds, will be as whispers that die on the winds. If the world is to be­come conscious of your presence as Catholics it will be because of the difference in your lives, and that dif­ference will be in your willingness to exemplify the conviction that things are right with the world only when man is right with God. 
Throughout the land it is recog­nized that this university is outstand­ing in its efforts to produce men who think and act with the Church. No one questions that Christ is King at Notre Dame. The Religious Bulletin and Survey, in which educatoi'S find so much of inspiration and encour­agement are witnesses to Apostolic effort and splendid achievement. There is every reason, therefore, why Notre Dame should expect you to bear further witness that she has striven mightily to give to the nation a lay apostolate worthy of the Church. 
To the end that she might accom­plish her purpose in your behalf, Notre Dame has, for a period of years, accepted you as of her house­hold. All that she has has been yours to share, knowledge for worldly pur­suits and truth to light you on your way to God. And she has given you, in the persons of those through whom she continues her existence an un­forgettable example of the spirit of self-sacrifice without which love for God and country is only a name. You will leave these halls today, but the Fathers of Holy Cross will remain. To you Notre Dame is a school, but to them it is an altar on which they offer themselves daily that she may live. Their love is her life and their only earthly consolation the hope that you will share it. Your presence on this occasion will indicate that you have measured up to the academic standards of Notre Dame, but your scholarship will be in vain unless you share the spirit of those who have shared with you not only their knowl­edge but their very souls. All else is as clay; it is the spirit, the spark from Pentecostal fires that gives it life. Notre Dame wishes for you a full measure of worldly success, but you will bring to her no gloiy if 
(CDntinucd on Page 283) 

June, 193i 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Rev. John F. 0*Hara Gives President's Address at Banquet 
Vice-President of University Tells of Notre Dame's Advancement During 1933-34 and Divulges Unusual Plans for Further Advancement in the Immediate Future 
It is with more than the reluctance of modesty that I venture to address you this evening. The President's address to the Alumni is a duty to be performed, but I know that I speak for you as well as for myself when I say that there is pain in our hearts when we turn our thoughts to the one who should be here tonight to wel­come you. Only sober duty can keep us away from the hospital tonight, from that bedside where Father O'Donnell, brilliant poet, devoted priest, and great President of a great University, lies quietly awaiting the summons that all of us must answer when and where God wills. Father O'Donnell loved this night, for it brought to his priestly heart a sense of fruition—a consolation none too common in the life experience of an educator—it warmed his heart to see that the seed planted by Notre Dame had brought forth fiiiit, "some foi-tj', some sixty, and some a hundred fold." -A.nd his heart is still warmed by your presence here tonight, for although he cannot be on hand to greet you, he knows that your presence once more at Notre Dame means prayers that will ease his passing and glorify his enti-ance into the eternal King­dom of God. 
In his name, then, I welcome back the representatives of other classes who have come to extend the hand of alumni fellowship to the members of the class of 1934. Notre Dame hopes that you di-aw new spiritual inspiration from this visit, and that you will return often. It would be trite to thank you for your loyalty, for loyalty carries its own rewards: the better Noti'e Dame man you are, the better you feel, and we want you to be the best of Notre Dame men always. 
I make myself one with the alum­ni in welcoming His Excellency, the Apostolic Delegate, for I want to ex­press with the solidarity of the Uni­versity, the community, the students, and the alumni, of all Notre Dame men past and present, the feeling of deep gratitude we feel to His Excel­lency for interrupting a verj' busy schedule to preside at our Commence­ment exercises. Archbishop Cicog­nani we have long looked upon as a friend, for we have known of his am­iable interest in the University of Notre Dame through our Procurator General in Rome, Father Sauvage. In the short time he has been among us here in the United States he has won the hearts of all who have had the pleasure of knomng him, and it is with the greatest of pleasure that we take him into our inmost heart as a good Notre Dame man. We wel­come His Excellency for his own sake and as the representative of the Holy Father, and we bid him tell His Holi-
REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C. 
Speaf(5 at Alumni Banquet 
ness that the first loyalty of Notre Dame is to the Catholic Church and to the gloi-iously reigning Sovereign Pontiff, Pope Pius XI. 
We thank also another member of the hierarchy who has honored us with his presence here tonight— Bishop McNamara, whom so many of us knew in Washington as a zealous parish priest and devoted friend of Holy Cross—I taught Sunday School for him twenty years ago, and he doesn't look a day older now. 
I must spare the modesty of our Commencement Orator, a member of the Silver Jubilee Class of 1909. Frank was a senior when I was a freshman, and I still watch my step when he is around. They tell me that modesty is unusual in Washing­ton. How about that. Bishop Mc­Namara? Frank has the unusual combination of extraordinary ability and moi-e than extraordinary mod­esty. No man in the official family of our beloved President has won greater respect for his unalterable stand for justice in matters of state. We are proud that if a Notre Dame man was to be honored with the con­fidence of a great President in these critical times, his choice fell upon 
such a good Notre Dame man as the 
irreproachable Frank Walker. 
It is customary on these occasions, I believe, for the President of the University to give a brief resume of the happenings of the year that might be of interest to the alumni. Pardon me if I delve into statistics a bit: I assure you that their use will be sparing—and not entirely without in­terest. 
Let us begin with registration. The total enrollment this year was 2617, a drop of 221 from last year. Fif­teen countries were represented in this enrollment, and all the states but Nevada. (Ted Carver, Frank Walker's classmate from Elko, had a son here a few years ago, but we are marking time until Ted has an­other boy for us.) This reduced en­rollment brought with it a blessing that will be recognized as such by the older alumni. This year we had only 26 undergraduate non-resident students living off - campus. Notre Dame is once more a campus school, and the fears that were once enter­tained that the old campus spirit was dying out—at one time one-third of the students lived in town—are no longer voiced. 
The restoration of campus life has meant the increase of recreational facilities, and our new Athletic Di­rector, Elmer Layden, with his efii­cient staff, has been busy planning for this. Coaches were added this year in tennis and golf, unofficial rec­ognition was given to soccer, fencing, , and boxing, and an unofficial rifle team was organized. Ten new tennis coui-ts were added this year, and a rifle range was opened in the old boat house. A new swimming pier is now under construction. The Rockne Me­morial is badly needed, and this week we have had a meeting of Maurice Carroll, of the class of 1919, archi­tect of the Memorial, and Mr. Charles Maginnis, consulting architect of the University, to devise plans for a less pretentious building than the one originally planned, and one more in keeping with our means. The Rockne Memorial Association informs me that it has on hand approximately $150,000 in cash for this project, and the architects are studying the project of a minor sports building that can be constructed for approxi­mately $400,000. When that is com­pleted and a social building added, our recreational needs will be met for some time to come. 

272 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS June, 193i 
Special academic recognition was granted during the year to various departments of the College of Sci­ence, particularly to the Department of Chemistry. Father Nieuwland was awarded the Morehead Medal for re­searches in acetylene, and is now in Rome as one of the tvro American delegates to the International Con­ference on Acetylene Problems. Fa­ther Nieuwland was also elected Golden Jubilee President of the In­diana Academy of Science. 
The Department of Chemistry has published 23 articles on research problems in representative chemical journals. In the May issue of the 
Journal of the American Chemical Society three such articles appear— an extraordinarj- record. Several other such articles will appear short­ly, some of them announcing patent­able processes. It will also interest you to know that the American Coun­cil of Education, in its recently pub­lished reports, lists Notre Dame as having the only adequate facilities for graduate study among the Cath­olic schools of this country. 
In the department of Physics, grad­uate work has been started. The field is limited at present to research in x-ray. 
In the department of biology, re­search is progressing satisfactorily in three special subjects. An announce­ment at this time would be prema­ture; such an announcement may be expected during the next semester. 
The Fairchild Board, which con­ducts competitive examinations for scholarships, has asked our Pharmacy Department to prepare the questions for this year's examinations. 
New equipment for laboratories is constantly being added. The depart­ment of Electrical Engineering has received benefactions during the past year from the Bell Telephone and the Western Electric Company, in the way of equipment valued at several thousands of dollars. 
Two bequests were announced dur­ing the year one of ?1,000 for the Endowment P\ind, from the late Mrs. Kate E. Herbert, and one of $25,000, from the late Edward N. Hurley, founder of the College of Commerce and Trustee of the Universitj'. Mr. Hurley's contribution is destined for scholarships to be awarded to boys who are working for at least part of their college expenses. 
Further advance is contemplated in the policy of teacher-training for the religious of Holy Cross. There are now twenty young priests doing graduate work in widely separated universities of the United States and Europe, and more ivill be added to this number this year. Certain of these plans will be announced during the summer by the Provincial and the Superior General, but it may be stated at this time that with a view to the establishment of a chair of Polish culture at the University in the near future, the Reverend Dr. Lisewski will leave shortly to begin special studies at the University of Cracow. Dr. Lisewski has been en­gaged in parish work in South Bend since his ordination in Rome several years ago, and we know that his be­loved parishioners will find it hard to part with him. They will be recon­ciled, however, that their loss will be their people's gain, for they will wel­come and support this desire of the University to make better known the culture of one of the most glorious nations of Europe. 
Perhaps no innovation of recent years at Notre Dame has more far-reaching importance than the inaug­uration during the past year of courses in medieval studies, under Father Moore and Dr. Pollock. The first University in the United States to establish a separate graduate de­partment of medieval studies, "Notre Dame is responding to the widespread conviction that our modem world is suffering from inanition as the in-e\'itable consequence of the loss of a powerful and living tradition which has always preserved and still pre­ser\'es i\-itlun itself indispensable conditions for intellectual life. . . . The purpose of the work in medieval studies at Notre Dame is to repossess that which has been lost; to make our own once again the intellectual riches of the long centuries of strug­gle for metaphysical and spiritual meaning." Father McDonald has been added to the staff of this group for next year, and other professors are in training. Dr. Gilson has been made Librarian of this new department, and a benefaction from an anony­mous donor vdU enable this depart­ment before long to spend $1,000 annually on books for this work. 
In conformitj' with the apologetic purpose of the courses in medieval studies, the Department of English lias adopted a policy of bringing to the University a series of visiting pro­fessors, a different one each year, men of the highest litei-ary rank who will be able to teach modem Catho­lic apologetics and inspire talented young men to enter that field of lit­erature. Mr. Shane Leslie comes to us next winter under this new ar­rangement. This brilliant young Irishman is probably the gi-eatest living authority on the Oxford move­ment, and the literary studies on the prominent figures of this movement are classical texts. Mr. Leslie will give one course in Shakespeare and another in Swift, and will also give a weekly public lecture on modem apologetics. 
The death during the year of the venerable Father Hudson and the be­loved Professor Phillips drew sharp attention to the literary traditions of Notre Dame, and although we can­not hope to replace these unique characters, we intend by this new de­parture to give new vigor and direc­tion to our contribution to literature. 
You are always interested in know­ing something of the spiritual prog­ress of the University. During this year'the total number of Holy Com­munions received by the students was 304,786, a daily average of 1308. This compares favorably with a daily average of 1381 for the previous year. The drop in enrollment was 221; the drop in the daily Commun­ion average was 73. There has been therefore, as always, a relative in­crease in the daily Communion av­erage. 
The Religious Survey of the Alum­ni, published last March, received a most cordial welcome everywhere. This series of studies of the religious life of the University and the alumni has become a standard text for other Catholic colleges, for pastors in the direction of their flocks, for mission­aries and retreat masters, and even for business men, who see in its frank statements a splendid outline of the psychology of youth. The daily Religious Bulletin now has a circulation of 2,000 copies daily out­side the Universitj'. It goes to prac­tically every state in the Union and to 15 foreign countries, and since it is posted daily on the bulletin boards in some 500 schools, its reading pub­lic may be conservatively estimated at more than 100,000. Both the Sur­vey and the Bulletin are widely quoted in the press and in books on spiritual topics. I want to take this occasion to thank the Alumni for the very thorough cooperation they have given the University's efforts in this direction. Their replies have been just as frank and wholesome as those of the students, and our studies among the Alumni have had a wide influence outside the University be­cause of the greater maturity of judgment shovm by those replying to the questionnaires. 
Material improvements in the Uni­versity's plant during the past year include the building of a new road outside the Universitj' Stadium, the closing of two roads, the addition of several acres to Cartier Field, the laying of a new floor in the apparatus room of the gymnasium, an extensive addition to the shelving in the Uni­versity Library, the- restoration of Sacred Heart Church and the instal­lation of a new lighting system, and the regilding of the Dome. Construc­tion projects at present under con­sideration, in addition to the Rockne Memorial, are a new postofiice, a new infirmary, and a Faculty House for 
(Continued on Page 2S6) 

June, 193i 273 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 



Apostolic Delegate Speaks Briefly at 90tli Commencement 
Commends Notre Dame "Conception of the Harmony Existing Between Science and Wisdom"; Calls Alumni "Living Honor of Notre Dame, the Consoling Reward of the University." 
What most impresses me, and I think many visitors coming to this well-known University of Notre Dame, is that conception of the har­mony existing between Science and Wisdom which the founders had in mind from the very beginning. I re­fer to Science as the laiowledge of human things, and Wisdom as the knowledge of things divine. 
In the center of all these buildings that grace the campus there arises, large, beautiful, majestic, the Chapel, or better, the Church, to indicate that here is to be found the principal chair in the education and formation of the students. Thus it was with the old Universities of Europe, as for ex­ample the University of Rome which even to this day is called "Sapientia." The founders of these great centers of learning realized vividly that to attain the knowledge and to succeed in life, youth must be nourished, not only by intellectual food, but by spir­itual food as well. They realized the necessity a"nd importance of planting in the soul and heart of youth- the seeds of virtue which produce peace, goodness and a complete formation of character. For this reason the University was compared to a mother and was called by the beautiful name "Mater Universitas." 'As the first though of a m^her is to instill into the hearts of/her children the ideals of virtue, so the ideal of a University is primaray the formation of char­actei\ /Therefore is she called by that beautiful title taken from the hymn to the Blessed Virgin, "Alma Redemptoris Mater," — Alma Mater, that is, the mother who nourishes. This title is especially appropriate to Noti'e Dame, the Universit}' of Our Lady. 
The profession of faith in a young University man, not only moulds his moral chai-acter, but is, moreover, a social advantage, because this spir­itual gift exerts a wide influence and becomes a guide to all other studies. So the church in the midst of the campus is not only a monument of art and of faith, but a beacon light that sheds its powei-ful rays on all society. 
Science and faith are the rays of the same sun, as the daily experience of those who cultivate the one and the other attests. Sometimes, indeed, attempts are made to erect a wall of division between Science and Reli­
gion, but' always with disastrous con­
sequences. The light of God cannot be divided without danger, nor can it be darkened even by one single ar­gument or one single positive proof. 
Science, refusing the light of God, sooner or later loses the way and de-
TuE MOST REV. ABILETO GIOVANNI CiCOGNANNi, Apostolic Delegate 
viates from the truth, and to deviate from the truth means to deviate from happiness, means to fall into mate­rialism, means to hush in ourselves those spiritual whisperings which come from the soul and from all created nature, namely from God Himself. 
When one rejects the doctrine of 
WILL ROGERS 
The following tribute to Fa­ther O'Donnell was paid by Will Rogers on June 5 thi-ough his nationally syndicated n e w s ­paper feature: 
"A sad wire this morning from Vice President O'Hara tells me of the death of a good friend. Father O'Donnell, of the great Notre Dame Univer­sity. What a fine, plain, human man. What Rockne did with 'em when they got those foot­ball suits on, this man did •\vith 'em while they was off the field. And turned out many Ail-Americans in the game of life." 
Christ, the Divine Teacher, he be­comes prone to listen to and accept any idea however erroneous, any phi­losophy however doubtful or wrong. 
The world, even that which is called scientific, unfortunately af­fords a painful proof of this. It is not ashamed to say that the end of man is a miserable return to dust and worms, but it blushes to profess that there is within ourselves a noble soul which cannot die, that the end of man is not earth bat heaven. 
True it is that Jesus Christ did not come into the world to teach science, but it is likewise true that His teach­ings, although attacked by thousands remain intact; they explain' the work of creation and the true purpose of our existence. Indeed, Christ was needed to give \is a dear understand­ing of these truths. 
You who are anxious and happy to listen to the lessons of the Divine Teacher and to put them into prac­tice, you especially who live close to the Divine Master, receiving Him often in the Holy Eucharist, are called to be Apostles of truth and messengers of God in the midst of society. 
By the profession of your Faith, you tender your country the purest and strongest proof of your love. You render yourselves fit to work efificaciously for the good of all, be­cause in you dwells a Christian strength, that strength which has re­newed nations and peoples and dif­fused everywhere, the light of civi­lization. 
I am therefore, very happy to greet you on this occasion. My recom­mendation is this, that you continue to cultivate that harmony of human and divine things which you learn so well at Notre Dame. I make this recommendation with confidence, be­cause as Saint John, the beloved dis­ciple, wrote to the youth of his day: "You are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the wicked one" (I John, II, 14.) I make this recommendation with confidence, because of the pres­ence of many alumni here today. They are the living honor of Notre Dame, the consoling reward of the University. On the day you enter into their illustrious ranks, hold high with them every day of your lives the holy ideals of Notre Dame, in­scribed on the side entrance of the Church of the Sacred Heart, "God, Country, Notre Dame." 

274 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS June, 193i 

New Officers of the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
For 1934-1935 
Honorary President President First Vice-President Second Vice-President .-. Director for Four Year Term 
 JVank C. Walker, '09  Timothy P. Galvin, '16  -.Bernard J. Voll, '17 Grattan T. Stanford, '04  James E. Deery, '10 

GOVERNORS and LIEUTENANT-GOVERNORS 
DISTRICT I 

(Northern Indiana and Southwestern Mich.) Governor —^Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Ind. Lieut.-Gov.—John W. Schindler, '09, Jlishawaka, Ind. 
DISTRICT II 

(Chicago) Governor —James H. Brennan, '20, Chicago, 111. Lieut-Gov.—James A. Ronan, '26, Chicago, HI. 
DISTRICT i n 

(Ohio, Western Penn. and West Virginia) Governor —^Rev. M. L. Moriarty, '10, Cleveland, Ohio. Lieut-Gov.—Henry F. Bamhart, '23, Lima, Ohio. 
DISTRICT r v 

(Minn. Wis. and Northern Slich.) Governor —^Daniel Coughlin, '22, Waseca, Minn. Lieut.-Gov.—^Henry Lauerman, '23, Menominee, Mich. 
DISTRICT V 

(Mich, except No. and Southwest) Governor —Joseph F. Sanford, '21, Muskegon, Mich. Lieut-Gov.^John T. Higgins, '23, Detroit, Mich. 
DISTRICT VI (New Jersey, East. Pa., Delaware, and Dist. of Columbia) Governor —John Purcell, '26, Fanwood, N. J. Lieut.-Gov.—^August G. Desch, '23, Philadelphia, Pa. 
DISTRICT VII 

(New York City) Governor —^William A. Daunt, '08, Long Island City, N.Y. Lieut-Gov.—Edward A. Fallon, '26, New York City. 
DISTRICT V m 

(New York, except New York City) Governor —Leo Kelley, '22, Syracuse, N. Y. Lieut-Gov.—Gerald -\she, '22, Rochester, N. Y. 
DISTRICT IX 

(New England) Governor —Charles Grimes, '20, Providence, R. I. Lieut-Gov.—John Robinson, '28, Waterhury, Conn. 
DISTRICT X 

(Virginia, North and South Carolina) Governor —Forest Fletcher, '12, Lexington, Va. Lieut-Gov.—^Frank A. Reese, '25, Raleigh, No. Carolina. 
DISTRICT XI (Alabama, Georgia and Florida) Governor —^Matthew M. O'Brien, '31, Tampa, Fla. 
DISTRICT XII 

(Ky., So. Ind. and Tenn.) Governor —^Edward H. Pfeiifer, '22, Louisville, Ky. Lieut-Gov.—^Hugh M. Magevney, '2a, Memphis, Tenn. 
DISTRICT XIII 

(La., Miss, and Ark.) Governor —^Robert Evans, Jr., '28, Vicksburg, Miss. Lieut-Gov.—^Lawrence Hennessey, '27, Vicksburg, Miss. 
DISTRICT XIV 

(Texas) Governor —James P. Swift, '24, Dallas, Texas. Lieut.-Gov.—William Grady, '17, Dallas, Texas. 
DISTRICT XV 

(Kansas, Missouri, OWa., and So. HI.) Governor —^Edgar F. Moran, '17, Tulsa, Okla. Lieut-Gov.—John M. Dugan, '27, Kansas Citj', Mo. 
DISTRICT XVI 

(No. m., Iowa and Nebraska) Governor —R. Gerald Jones, '22, Dixon, 111. Lieut-Gov.—Sherwood Dixon, '20, Dixon, 111. 
DISTRICT XVII 

(Mont. Wyoming, No. Dakota, and So. Dakota) Governor —Thomas C. Kasper, '21, Brookings, So. Dak. Lieut-Gov.—George A. McGee, '01, Minot, No. Dak. 
DISTRICT XVHI 

(Utah and Colorado) Governor —Henry Weiss, '08, Salt Lake City, Utah. Lieut.-Gov.—^Robert Fox, '01, Denver, Colo. ' 
DISTRICT XIX 

(So. Calif., Ariz., New Mex. and El Paso ai-ea) Governor —James H. Bach, '07, San Diego, Calif. Lieut-Gov.—^Thomas H. Heam, '15, Los Angeles, Calif. 
DISTRICT XX 

(Northern Calif, and Nevada) Governor —^Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif. Lieut-Gov.—^E. P. CarvjUe, '09, Elko, Nevada. 
DISTRICT XXI 

(Wash., Oregon and Idaho) Governor —James L. Hope, '11, Astoria, Ore. Lieut-Gov.^Walter M. Daly, '04, Portland, Ore. 
DISTRICT XXH (Foreign) Governor —Louis P. Hari, '16, Paris, France. 
June, 193i THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 275 

SECRETARY'S ANNUAL REPORT 
The ill wind of the depression has blown the Association of Notre Dame Alumni and the University into a mutual program which seems at this writing to be the most significant de­velopment in our history. 
More has been accomplished by the alumni for the University than we can begin to measure in any ma­terial terms, and the surface is just barely scratched. 
More has been accomplished for the Association in this year of dis­tress than we were able to accom­plish in our greatest period of pi-os­perity. 
We speak of course of the program authorized by the Board in November which has brought into the -Alumni Office an Assistant Alumni Secretary, William R. Dooley, '26, and addition­al clerical help, on the University payroll. The Office, as a result, has been able to organize and launch defi­nitely since Jan. 1, 1934, a program of promotional activity which has in­cluded the visits by alumni and fac­ulty representatives from the campus to more than 50 Local Alumni Clubs, double any previous year's activity in this field. 
In addition, alumni District, Club and national officers, and individual alumni in eveiy major communitj', have been enlisted by correspondence in the work of investigating and rec­ommending prospective students. The result is a 50% increase in registra­tion for May of this year as against the figures for May a year ago. 
The ALUMNUS 

The ALUMNUS, through the rec­ommendation of the Board and the wholehearted accord of the Univer­sity, has been printed on as regular a monthly schedule as the travels of the staff have permitted. 
-Another increase in advertising is noted this year, which indicates a hopeful assistance as conditions im­prove. 
Many features along the lines of an increased intellectual activity were included this year and the Edi­tor is pleased to report a popularity and reaction in keeping wtih the highest academic hopes of the Uni­versity and the faculty men who con­tributed to these features. With the addition of the assistant editor, much development in unity is expected for next year's issues. 
Districts 
District organization has continued along the unhurried program out­lined from the start. The Governors have responded to every request. Many fine suggestions have been made for both oi-ganization and ac­tivity which will find reflection in the next year's program. 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
Once more, disappointment in a radio hookup occurred, but a great unifying factor appeared in the mes­sage from Elmer Layden to the sev­eral Clubs and from the Chicago alumni, entertaining the acting presi­dent of the University. Telegrams to Father Charles L. O'Dohnell were also concrete evidence of the univer­sality of the Night and of the loyalty of which it is but a reflection. 
Living Endowment 
Living Endowment was kept this year only for the valuable factor of continuity. 
That the coming year promises defi­nite recovery in this phase of the -As­sociation program is evidenced from the fact that returns to date from the first appeal, which accompanied the ballots, have brought the total number of contributors to within five of the total for this entire year, and the total amount contributed to with­in $25 of the 1933-1934 total. This is the logical place to repeat that the gift is of far more significance than the amount of it. 

Dues 
While there is little reason for either congratulation or optimism in the fact that only 1100 alumni out of a possible 6000 paid $5 this year, there is a great deal of satisfaction in saying that literally hundreds of splendid letters from young alumni explaining the inability to pay were received. It takes more sometimes to write that kind of letter than to send the five. The indications are that financial recovery will do a great deal more for the -Association than was done in the previous period of prosperity. Also, many men unable to pay dues have been of inestimable value in service rendered, especially in the student contact program. Early response to the first 1934-35 appeal indicates much better prospects for the year ahead. 
Club* 
Enough good can't be condensed into one appreciation for the activi­ties of the Local Alumni Clubs dur­ing the past year. With every reason for retrenching and inactivity, they have enjoyed a record year of achieve­ment. Two new Clubs have organ­ized. Several have virtually reorgan­ized. New ideas of vital importance have been introduced. The work of the contact program was greatly aided by Club arrangements. Corres­pondence with the ALUMNUS im­proved. 
The Directory 
If enough alumni send in the out­standing Questionaires, the proposed Directory will be issued during the coming summer. It will be modified to serve a temporary purpose, as conditions among the alumni make any attempt to catalog addresses or occupations- with permanency im­practicable at present. 
Conclusion 
Judging from contacts with other Alumni Associations, we can enjoy considerable satisfaction. Not the satisfaction of having done anything outstanding, but the satisfaction of knowing that we have held • what ground we have gained and are still digging the cleats in for more first downs. First downs don't score by themselves, but put enough of them next to each other and the scoreboard will show it. 
We have kept our outside contacts. The Association, through the Chicago Club and through the co-operation of the University, Father O'Hara, Father Bolger, Dean Konop and Dean Mc Carthy, put on the most successful of a series of forums in Chicago for the National Catholic Alunmi Federa­tion. The papers from this were pub­lished in the ALUMNUS with splen­did reactions from the Association membership far and wide. 
The annual football banquet of the St. Joe Valley Club served to intro­duce the new director of Athletics and his staif to the hundreds of friends of Notre Dame who have be­come regular patrons of this great annual dinner. 
The work of the Waterbury, Bos­ton and Providence Clubs in bringing Father O'Hara into New England stand out from the years achieve­ments. Similarly the Central Ohio alumni, entertaining Father O'Hara and Elmer Layden •with the Ohio State alumni as guests, did a fine piece of work. The Tri-Cities Club, 

•Kith a magnificent "home town" ban­quet for Elmer Layden; Cleveland;, with a large Father-and-Son lunch­eon, featuring Father Miltner, and Joe Boland; Springfield, newly organ­ized in Illinois, •with its beautiful and successful Mother's Day Communion meeting •with mothers and •wives of 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
members as guests; Rhode Island entertaining the people responsible for bringing the Glee Club into New England; Detroit, combining •with the St. Mary's alumnae and the junior Catholic Women's League to put on a Glee Club Concert—^these are rea­sons •why the year has represented a spirit of achievement and initiative, rather than the struggle for existence that might be derived from the treas­urer's report. 
Treasurer's Report 
Financial Statement (.lune 1, 1933 to June 1, 1931) 
Balance on Hand, June 1. 1933­
Receipts Collected for dues Advertising AUJMNDS _ Subscriptions ALUMNUS Living Endowment From the University, cash^ 
Total Income— 
_S 398.57 
- 6.567.00 _ 1,033.2S 22.00 395.60 500.00 
_S 7,916.33 

Disbursements Printins other than ALUJINUS* (Stationery, bills, etc) 377.65 Salaries _— 5,040.00 Postage —_ 862.2'! Miscellaneous (OiBce exp., travel, engraving, etc) 677.41 
Total Disbursement _ S 6,957.30 Bank Balance June 1, 1934 , _S 959.03 
• The University temporarily assumed the Ava Maria Press bill for printing the ALUMNUS. James E. Armstrong, Secretary-Treasurer. 
Deceased Alumni, 1933-1934 
"Whereas God, in His ^visdom, has during the past year taken from this life: 
Joseph D. Oliver. '60, South Bend, Ind. Msgr. St. John O'Sullivan, '98, 
Juan Capistrano Mission. California Rev. J. H. McGinnis, '00, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. William A. Mclnemy, '01, South Bend, Ind. August H. Boldt, '13. Detroit. Mich. John F. Doujak, '27, Fort Smith, Ark. Elbert Burson, •25. Litchfield, 111. 
.Thomas J. Dundon, '71, Isbpcming, Mich. Cassius M. Proctor, '75, Akron, Ohio John J. Loughran, '00, Philadelphia, Pa. Collins FoUette, '29, Green Bay, Wis. Edward N. Hurley, 'IS. LUJ., Chicago, HI. Col. W. L. Luhn, '87, Santa Fe, N. M. Lawrence E. Rombaut, '22, Carteret, N. J. Robert J. Moynihan, '26, A\Tieeling, W. Va. 
A. J. Hanhauser, '97, Philadelphia, Pa, William F. Robinson, *06, Gulfport, Miss. Charles McDermott, '27, Allentown, Pa. Ralph J. Ellwanger, '97-'98, Dubuque, Iowa Robert E. Burris, '33, Elkhart, Ind. Oliver Tong, OS. '98, Indianapolis, Ind. Henty 0. Trell. '91, So. Pasadena, Calif. Pat Malloy, '07, Tulsa. Oklahoma. Samuel S. Perley, OS. "78, South Bend. Ind. CjTil J. Curran, '12, New York City John F. McMahon, OS. '05. Mitchell, S. D. Dr. Frederick C. Dana, '11. Fond du Lae, Wis. Donald C. Tromblcy, '26, Mt. Clemens, Mich. Adrian R. Lynch, OS. '15, Davenport, Iowa Albert V. King, '14, Chicago, HI. 
•Victor J. Dowling, '17 LL.D., New York City Alexander Beclonan, os. '88, Ottawa, Ohio. 
"Whereas those members have served their Alma Mater •with glory in their respective avocations, 
"Be it resolved that this Associa­tion extend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives •with promise of pray­ers that the same God in His mercy 
•will be generous to their souls and grant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
"Be it further resolved that an ex­pression of the above be written into the official records of the Alumni 
Association, and a copy sent to the 
bereaved relatives." 
A TRIBUTE 
BY FRANK C. WALKER, '00 Commencement Speaker­
"A tinge of sadness is in the air today—^he who so splendidly guided our destinies these past six years is lying weak and wan and wasted, waiting for the Divine Call to a well merited reward. 
"He was no ordinary individ­ual. He had a combination of qualities the like of which I found in no other man of all my acquaintances. Leadership, business acumen and fine judg­ment all •were his, but added to these were an amazing intellect, a poetic soul and a real priestly character. 
"I know the fine inspiration he must have been to you men of the class of 1934. He honor­ed me •with his friendship, and to me was always an inspira­tion. 
"To my mind he was Notre Dame's greatest man. 
"When told of the illness of his good friend. Bishop Finni­gan, I have heard that he said 'God's •will be done.' I now say of him, 'God's \vill be done.' 
"Whether Di^vdne Providence calls him at this time or not, I know Charles O'Donnell shall always be with Notre Dame and me." 
June, 193i 
ALUMNI BOOKS 
THE BOG: Latest of the delightful series of novels of Ireland from the fluent pen of the Eev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C, Litt. B., '11. THE BOG is now available in book form from the Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, ($1.50.) 
The novel first ran in serial form in The Ave Maria where during the 
•winter months it brought a fresh pouring-in of praise for the priest who, from the Presbytery of Notre Dame, changes the pathos, and the humor that are his thoughts of Ire­land into the magic of print for thou­sands of lovers of his native country to read and re-echo. 
A keen student of the tragic histo­ry of the Ireland of 1916, Father Carroll has embodied in this new vol­ume all of the humor and all of the religious life and all of the poetry that made his "Patch" and his "Mich­aleen" the toast of Irish America, but in addition, in this work he has caught and held up to the gaze of his readers the more somber hues. The scanning of poetic lines is interrupted by gunfire, and smiles are frozen by death on young faces. 
Those who love Ireland, those who love the Church, those who admire heroism and character in any race, 
•will find rich fare and pleasing in THE BOG. The Alumni Office will be pleased to assist alumni in securing the book, or the Ave Maria Press can be addressed directly. 
Phillips' Book Plate 
The ALUMNUS announced in April that the bulk of the private library of the late Professor Charles Phillips had very generously been given to the Universitj' Library by his sister, Mrs. Eva Phillips Donahue, and his brother, Frank Phillips. 
Paul E. Byrne, '13, University Librarian, has now announced that each of the Phillips books has been marked with an especially designed book plate containing these words: "From the Books of Charles Phillips —Professor of English, 1924-33— University of Notre Dame Librarj'." 
Professor Phillips', his genius and his inspiration, are thus memoriali­zed for untold generations of Notre Dame students. 
The happy memory of Professor Phillips has been further remembered at Notre Dame by the renaming of the former Cracow Club, composed of students of Polish descent. The club is now known as the Charles Phillips Cracow Club. 

June, 1934-THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 277 
Honorary Desrees, 1934 Commencement 
The degree of doctor of laivs, honoris causa, on: 
A member of the hierarchy, distin­guished through the years of his priesthood and episcopacy by his apostolic zeal as pastor of souls and by spiritual leadership in the priniatial see of the United States, who by his baccalaureate sermon to the Class of 1934 has made this day memorable for all present at the commencement Mass. — The Most Reverend John Michael McNamara, of Washington, D. C., Ajixiliary Bishop of Baltimore. 
On a master of music and art expert, whose judgment in matters of art is accepted as final in the great art centers of the United States, Eng­land, and France. — Dr. Maurice Henry Goldblatt, of Chicago, Di­
rector  of  the  Wightman  Art  Gal­ 
lery, of  the  University  of  Notre  
Dame.  

On a member of our national cabinet, proudly revered by the people of his native state, known to the coun­try for his years of service as sol­dier and statesman, and esteemed by the nations of both hemispheres as the foremost practical champion of international peace and har­mony, whose diplomacy of honest outrightness has won for our gov­ernment the respect and confidence of foreign courts. — the Honorable Cordell Hull, of Carthage, Tennes­see, Secretary of State to President Roosevelt. 
On a loyal alumnus of the University, member of the Class of 1909, who by his talent in the legal profes­sion, rare executive ability in or­ganization, and patent integrity of character has won his way to prom­inence in national politics and to a position of difficult trust in gov­ernment. — The Honorable Frank Comeford Walker, of New York City, Executive Director of the Na­tional Emergency Council. 
Mrs. Brady Receives 1934 Laetare Medal In Rome 
Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady, New York philanthropist and woman leader, on June 6 received the 52nd Laetare medal of the University of Notre Dame at the College of Holy Cross in Rome. The presentation was made by Rev. Julius A. Nieuw­land, C.S.C, Notre Dame scientist. The Very Rev. George Sauvage, C.S.C, procurator general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, repre­sented the religious society. 
Mrs. Brady was the 11th woman to receive the medal. Miss Margaret Anglin, New York actress, Eliza Allen Starr, Anna Hanson Dorsey, Mrs. James Sadlier, Mary G. Cald­well, Katherine E. Conway, Mrs. Frances Tieman, .4gnes Repplier, Mary V. Merrick and Elizabeth Nourse were other women similarly honored in previous years. 
Mrs. Brady and her husband, who died in 1930, received the titles of duke and duchess from Pope Pius XI in 1926, the highest honor the apos­tolic see can grant. Mrs. Brady is vice chairman of the National Wom­en's council on welfare relief mobili­zation. She also is chairman of the During the world war she purchased the Old Colony club in New York, from the government and turned the building over to charity work. 
Sockalexis Memorial Fund 
Students of the '97 era, and many others as well, will be particularly interested in knowing that a Louis Sockalexis Memorial Fund Commit­tee has been organized in Old Town, Maine. Its purpose is to gather suf­ficient funds to mark suitably, on. the Penobscot Indian Reservation, the grave of a former baseball "great" who got part of early training at Notre Dame. 
• It is estimated, according to Thom­as S. Wadsworth, secretary of the fund committee, that $400 will pro­vide for a suitable monument. A con­siderable portion of that amount has already been subscribed by the Cleveland Indians, Holy Cross Col­lege and others. The Alumni Ofiice will, be very glad to forward to the committee the contribution of any Notre Dame man who feels impelled to aid in this worthy cause. 
Catholic Action in L A . 
Tom Heam, '15, president of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles, was among those most active in con­ducting the highly effective Catholic Action week held in Los Angeles early in May. Tom presided at one of the sessions. Judge Al Scott, '22, and Frank Barry, '03, were among the other alumni who actively par­ticipated in this laudable enterprise. 
Mrs. Tom Heam (Maty Whalen, '12, of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame) was chairman of the very sig­nificant motion picture committee for this Catholic Action week. 

A long-range vieiv of the Alumni 
banquet, held on Saturday evening, 

board of the Girl Scouts of America. June 2, as a feature of the Commencement week-end. 
278 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 19Si 
Veteran Alumni Head Association, 1934-35 
Election Brings Men of Proven Merit to Postions of Leadership; Slate, As Always, Assured Alumni of Victory, 
TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16-, silver-tongued, perennially youthful alum­nus, is the new president of the Alumni Association. Living close in miles, closer in spirit, Tim has always worn the Notre Dame colors as a winner. It is with the confidence of experience that the aifairs of the As­sociation are deposited in his able hands. As a members of the Su­preme Board of the Knights of Co­lumbus and a prominent leader in the Middle Western activities of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, Tim possesses interests and experi­ences of mutual benefit. 

BERNARD J. Voii, '17, long the key-man of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, the local Exhibit A of the Catholic-college-man-in-busi­ness, able speaker, brilliant thinker, prominent in South Bend ci^^c cir­cles, extensive traveler, persona l friend of many of the priests and professors at Notre Dame, comes to the first vice-presidency with recom­mendations to spare. 
GRATTON STANFORD, '04, second vice-president, brilliant attorney of New York City, enjoys less of the familiar­ity which geography permits his con­temporaries on the Board, but his long career as an outstanding attor­ney in the East has been coupled al­w^ays with a contact with Notre Dame and the men on campus which quali­fies him admirably to enjoy a mutual representation of Association and Eastern alumni. 
JASIES E . DEEKY, '10, director 1934­38, Indianapolis, brings again the neighborhood touch to the Board, which includes, in his case, frequent visits to Notre Dame and even more frequent contacts with the many cam­pus figures who visit Indianapolis in the course of the year. A moving figure in the Club there, Jim also brings to the Board invaluable expe­reince gathered in fraternal work with the Ancient Order of Hibernians of which he was president, and the National Council of Catholic men of which he was national secretary. 
FRANK C. WALKER, '09, now Dr. Walker, newl y and unanimously elected honorary president, needs no identification. Always interested in anything connected with Notre Dame, possessed of unusually significant ex­perience, Mr. Walker can be counted upon to contribute freely of his store of knowledge and interests for the benefit of the Association. 
Members of the Board holding over are Robert E. Lynch, '03, Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, Fred L. Steers, '11, 
Regardless of Election Outcome 
directors; Harry Miller, '10, retiring president who assumes a place on the Board for the year ex officio. 
The Class of '34 will elect this month a director to serve on the Board for the current year. 
JOSEPH BYRNE, JR.. '15 Commissioner of the Port. 
Gets Port Appointment 
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey, fervent Notre Dame en­thusiast, prominent member of the Alumni Association and outstanding financier and insurance broker, has recently been appointed as a commis­sioner of the Port of New York Authority, one of the most significant and influential posts in the New York area. He will take office on July 1. 
A testimonial banquet for Joe, at­tended by scores of his friends and business associates, was held in New­ark on June 12. Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics, and J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, represented the University at the event. 
Rangers Report 
From San Antonio, Texas, came at Commencement time this very time­ly and -thoughtful greeting from Joseph.A. ;Menger, '25, governor of District Fourteen of the Alumni Asso­ciation: 
"Texas Alumni Send Greetings and Wish You Unlimited Success in Your Deliberations." 
Feeney Is Commended 
The Catholic Universe Bulletin re­
cently carried the following editorial 
entitled: "Feeney, N. D., Makes a 
Touchdown." 
"Al G. Feeney, former Notre Dame 
football player and now director of 
the Indiana State Department of Pub­
lic Safety, has made a touchdown for 
his Alma Mater, even though we are 
nowhere near the football season and 
Feeney hasn't worn gridiron togs for 
years. 
"A sport director asked permission 
to stage a 'public wedding' in a wres­
tling ring at Indianapolis, as a pub­
licity stunt, of course. The Notre 
Dame graduated director of Safety 
refused his consent. It was pointed 
out that previous officials had given 
their permission for such mockeries 
of holy things. 
" 'But not this one,' replied Mr. Feeney. 'The place for a wedding is in church, or at least in the home.' This answer should be put on the roll of great sayings by Notre Dame men. It shows that the former ail-Ameri­can center learned practical Catho­licity as well as football at the School of Our Lady at South Bend. 
"We congratulate Mr. Feeney on his fine Christian sense of proportion; we congratulate the school that trained him." 
Memorial Day Services 
Kev. Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C, pastor of Sacred Heart parish at Notre Dame, was the celebrant of the annual Military Field Mass held at the memorial entrance of the church on Memorial Day, May 30. In the World War, Father Finnegan was chaplain of the 139th Machine Gun Batallion and the 61st Infantry. 
Rev. Joseph A. Heiser, C.S.C, chaplain of the 489th Field Artillery, delivered a short address following the Mass. The military detail was in charge of Captain and Registrar Rob­ert B. Riordan, 489th Field Artillery. The color guard and firing squad were from Company D, 113th Engrs. 
In the cemetery following the Mass a prayer for the nation's dead was offered by Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C, Regimental Sergeant Major, 320th Train Headquarters, 95th Di­vision, World War. The Notre Dame band, under the direction of Joseph 
J. Casasanta, provided the music for the parade from the church to the cemetery. 

June, 19S4 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Additional Club News 
CLEVELAND 

Your telegram conveying the sad news of Father O'Donnell's death was read at our weekly luncheon on the Monday after Commencement. Our feelings of sadness and bereavement upon learning of the death of our beloved President were mingled with a sense of sympathy for those of you on the Campus who know him more intimately, and whose brilliant leader he was. Our thoughts and our pray­ers will be joined with yours in his 
memory. 
At its recent annual election held 
at Chuck Bohr's Restaurant, the 
Cleveland Club elected the following 
officers: 
William Ryan, President; Gaylord 
Haas, Vice President; Pierce J. 
O'Connor, Secretary; and Jerome 
Reidy, Treasurer. 
Preceding the election the Club 
heard a short talk by William Mc 
Dermott on the purposes of the Cath­
olic Charities Corporation subscrip­
tion campaign, which is now in pro­
gress. 
Richard Weppner, after three 
years in Chicago, has returned to 
Cleveland and is associated with his 
father in the Ohio Mineral Spirits 
Company. Dick and his charming 
wife are now the parents of two 
youngsters, a boy and a girl. 
Jim Moran, who used to give opponents of Notre Dame's boxing team plenty to worry about, has just completed another year's study at Our Lady of the Lake Seminajy in Cleveland, and expects to be ordained next year. 
Don Hogan, formerly of Ashta­bula, Ohio, is with The Bailey Com­pany, one of the large department stores, and is receiving congratula­tions on his recent promotion. 
The New Deal has dropped a few aces for local alumni. Dan Duffy and John Butler are unraveling legal tan­gles for the Home Owners Loan Cor­poration, and Bemie Zipperer, a Warren, Ohio barrister and commu­ter to all Cleveland Club aiFairs, is with the Division of Securities of the Attorney General's office at Columbus. 
James Burke, '33 is on the Editor­ial Staif of the Cleveland Press, while Bill Byrne is helping increase circu­lation totals at the Cleveland News. 
Dr. Cy Caldwell is engaged in the practice of dentistry with offices at 4172 Rocky River Drive. Cy did his pre-dental work at Notre Dame, later going to St. Louis University for his professional training. 
Bill Bambrick, another future ex­pert on what to do for that aching molar, is completing his training at Western Reserve Dental School here. 
During the summer. Bill is conduc­
ting a camp for boys at Lake 
Stafford. 
Al Grisanti and Cornelius Ruffing 
are in the graduating class of the 
Cardinal Gibbons and Father O'Don­nell at the Diamond Jubilee of Notre Dame, 1917. 
Law School at Western Reserve. Dur­
ing his Law School course, AI occa­
sionally took time from his case books 
to help Coach Joe Gavin, whose Holy 
Name High teams have been going 
places in local scholastic circles. 
Ken Boylan, one of the regular attendants at our Monday noon luncheons, is with the brokerage firm of Doherty & Company. 
Frank Celebrezze, Assistant Coun­ty Prosecutor, is pursuing the avoca­tion of gardening at his home on the outskirts of the city. 
It is said that Hugh McManigal, who writes insurance for the Pruden­tial Insurance Company, will be one of the Democratic candidates for State Representative in the next election. 
Art Gallagher has recently joined several other Notre Dame grads at Superior Transfer Company. There are now some 8 or 9 members of the local Club connected with the com­pany or one of its affiliates. 
Stan Cofall, with the Standard Oil Company of Ohio, now has the gas station attendants strike situation well in hand, and is making up a lot of lost sleep. 
Dr. Ed. Lakner is resident surgeon on the staff of St. Alexis' Hospital. Sylvester Mobily is with The Stan­dard Drug Company. 
John Sonnhalter is applying his training in architectural designing to the problems of W. S. Tyler Co. 
Frank Belding expects that his three year old will wear his mono­gram, a few years' hence, without a trace of self-consciousness. The boy 
is now the envy of his neighborhood, 
sporting a tiny gold N. D. monogram 
on his play-snit. (The writer is a 
little in doubt as to whether this is 
the correct term, but Pat Canny, 
that gifted husband and father, is not 
available as technical adviser). Pat, 
since relinquishing his duties as Sec­
retary of the Club, has been playing 
a lot of golf in an effort to soothe 
his shattered nerves. Friends report 
that the cure has not been quite ideal, 
due to Pat's difficulties with the water 
hazard on the Columbia Hills Course. 
Pierce J. O'Connor. 
RHODE ISLAND Rhode Island AInmni tendered a reception to Notre Dame guests from Hartford and some other cities Mon­day evening, May 21, at the Narra­gansett Hotel, Providence. The affair was arranged with a view to enter­taining guests of the Most Reverend Patrick P. Eeough, newly consecrated Bishop of Providence who is a great friend of Notre Dame and who has served as Honorary Chaplain of Notre Dame Club in the Connecti­cut Valley. Among those present were Tom Curry and Mrs. Curry and his sisters, Mrs. Wood and Mrs. Gay, Miss Agnes fi. O'Sullivan, secretary to Bishop Keough and promoter of the very suc­cessful Notre Dame Glee Club Con­cert in Hartford, Dr. Ellen Ryan Jolly and in addition to numerous Rhode Island Alumni, the parents and friends of many of the Rhode Island students now at Notre Dame. Charles Grimes 
OREGON 
On April 16th, the Notre Dame Club of Oregon gathered at Columbia University in Portland, Ore., to cele­brate Notre Dame Universal Night for 1934. 
An attendance of thirty-seven checked in for a delicious dinner pre­pared by the Sisters, and it seemed like old school days to sit at the students' tables in Columbia's refec­tory. We are deeply indebted to our gracious host, Fr. Louis Kelly, for the opportunity of meeting at Colum­bia, as the atmosphere there is just next to Notre Dame's. 
Officers elected for the coming year are: Frank T. ColUer (1903-1908), President; Ralph M. Prag (1922-'24), Vice-President; William C. Schmitt (1904-1910), Secretary; James CuU­gan (1917-1921), Treasurer. 
It was decided that during the com­ing year a luncheon will be held on the first Monday of each month, and a committee was appointed to initiate other activities that will help bring the Notre Dame men together more frequently. 
Wm. C. Schmitt 

280 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, WSi 
ATHLETICS 
=Sy JOSEPH PETRITZ= 
• GOLF 
By way of varietj-, and because Editors Dooley and Armstrong de­mand the copy for the final issue of this esteemed publication the day the track season is ending in Milwaukee, we shall save our brilliant account of an equally brilliant track season for the piece de resistance and give the golfers some of the prominence they deserve. 
We shall also give the editors some 

prominence they don't deserve by 
mentioning that the only reason they 
are rushing into print this month is 
that they want to test out those 12 
new tennis courts. 
The golf team has just completed another season without defeat in dual competition, the fourth in the past five years. They have won their fourth state team championship and their fifth state individual champion­ship in as five seasons. 
Furthermore they have established themselves, in round numbers, as the dark horse favorite, or better, to end the supremacy of the East in the na­tional intercollegiate tournament to be held in Cleveland June 25 to 30. If they don't get confused trying to remember which Miller is the horse­man, which the ex-mayor, and which the former president of the -Alumni association, they should pull through with Notre Dame's first national golf championship. 
Here are the scores for dual com­petition, giving an idea of the class of competition and the power of the 1934 aggregation: 
Notre Dame, 14; Detroit, 4 
Notre Dame, 15 % ; Purdue, 2 % 
Notre Dame, 15; Chicago, 3 
Notre Dame, 15 % ; Wisconsin, 2 % 
Notre Dame, 15; Northwestern, 3 
Notre Dame, 13; Illinois, 8 
Notre Dame, 16%,-Indiana, 1% 
As the card shows, the Illinois match was the closest of the year. Illinois was "hot," especially in the morning best ball foursomes, but Notre Dame was better, taking 5% out of a possible six points. Both teams slipped in the afternoon. It is worth recording here that Capt.-Elect Johnny Banks and John Montedonico, 1933 captain, were two down with three to go in their doubles match. Banks' eagle, Montie's birdie, and Banks' par on the crucial three holes won the match and three points for 
1934 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Oct. 6—^Texas at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 13—Purdae at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 20—Camesie Tech at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 27—^Wisconsin at Notre Dame. 
Nov. 3—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. 
Nov. 10—^Navy at Cleveland. 
Nov, 17—^Northwestern at Evanston. 
Nov. 24—^Army at New York, 
Dec 8—So. California at Los Angeles. 
the Irish. Banks said, "We had to do it to win." 
The Illinois match is significant in another respect. Playing on an un­familiar course against the best com­petition they met all year, the Irish had an aggregate of 589 strokes. Six hundred to 610 is usually good enough to win the national title. In the morning, the lads shot 282, six under par for the team. 
There are two sides to the.show­ing made in the state meet. The Eev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C, faculty adviser, named a four-man team be­fore the meet started. This group shot 1231 for the two day affair, beating Purdue, the runner-up by 49 strokes. This was over a par 72 course. Michigan, generally regarded as the best middle western threat, shot 1229 over a par 71 course in Chicago to win the Big Ten title. But, had Father Holderith been able to name six men, and take the four best scores, the Irish would have shot 1211. Ex - Capt. Montedonico and Capt. Vincent FeMig shot 317 and 318 respectively. Pat Malloy, Jr., who was not named on the team, posted a'305; Bill Veeneman, also not named, shot 310; and Herman Green nosed out his captain with a 317. 
To get down to the brass tacks of the state championship — which, inci­dentally, was played for the first time over the William J. Burke-Notre Dame course — Johnny Banks and Winfield Day, were the stars. Banks set a new state and course record for 72 holes with his brilliant 293. Had he been putting, his card would have been even better, for he shot a par 72 the second morning of the two-day affair and was putting for birdies on every hole except one. He went over par three times, twice because of three-putt greens, and collected only three birdies out of a possible 17. 
Reviewing the record of the past three years, we find that Notre Dame has won 28 out of 30 dual matches. In the three years they have gone to the national tournament they have finished third twice and fourth once, each time being the best of the teams without full-time coaches. They have been undefeated in dual play four of the five seasons. 
Banks, forme r Western junior champion, a member of the Chicago public parks last year, state college champion, quarter-finalist in the 1932 western amateur, and winner of many lesser titles, may be beaten for the individual title in the nationals, but he will be out-classed by no one. The same is true of Winfield Day, who turned in a 71, the best 18-hole card of the state tournament. 
Finally, we wish to mention that Kenny Morine, South Bend freshman golfer, qualified for the national open and shot an 80, nine strokes behind the leaders, the first day. 
• BASEBALL 
Coach Jake Kline must have pon­dered considerably the great seasons of his day as a player, just before America entered the World War, as he watched his 1934 charges com­pile a record of nine defeats in the first 10 games. 
But in the end Jake found consola­tion. The season's record reads like an account of almost any of the in­dividual games on the card. The lads started poorly, but finished well. Their spirit unbroken, they won seven of the last nine games on the 19­game schedule, losing to Iowa by one run and to Michigan State, 13 to 9. Their total was eight victories in 19 starts. 
But that doesn't begin to tell the story. 
The story might be condensed to this: Kline needed the talents of five football players who participated in spring practice and then came out for baseball to turn an "almost" team into a winner. He has been guaran­teed the services of these gentlemen next year. They are Andy Pilney, hard-hitting outfielder; Frankie Gaul, super-hard hitting catcher; Wally Fromhart, third baseman; and Matt Themes, pitcher. When he got them, his team clicked. Up until then, they had come close to winning all of their 

June, 1934 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
games except two, each of which they lost by seven runs. Eighth and ninth inning rallies were the thing all sea­son long. 
Even commencement week - end many of you saw them come back against Wisocnsin to win a 10-inning affair, 5 to 4. Frankie Gaul's home run with two on in the ninth tied the score. Norb Rascher's triple with two on, after Wisconsin had made a run in the tenth, won the game. They lost to Michigan State, 13 to 9, be­cause of shaky fielding, but going in­to the eighth needing 10 runs to tie, they got three in the eighth, and Rascher hit a home run with two on to give them three more in the ninth. 
Kieran Louis Dunn, star first sack­er, was elected captain after the final game. Larry (Butch) O'Neill of -Al­bany, is the retiring captain. Stars of the aggregation were Jim Leonard, Matt Themes, and Charley Huisking, pitchers; Vic Mettler and Danny Cunha, who started in the infield and ended Up in the outfield; Paul (Pep­per) Kane, as nifty a little second baseman as we've ever seen; Pilney in the outfield; Reagan at shortstop; George Wentworth, utility infielder; O'Connor, reserve first baseman; Fromhart, third baseman; and O'Neill and Gaul, catchers. 
Following is the complete record: (Adding up the runs, you will find that Notre Dame outscored the op­position by 141 runs to 125.) 
Ohio State, 7; Notre Dame. 5 Western State, 14: Notre Dame, 7 Chicago, 14 ; Notre Dame, 12 Northwestern, 14: Notre Dame, 13 Purdue, 14 : Notre Dame, 13 Purdue, 9: Notre Dame, 6 Wisconsin, 6; Notre Dame, 4 Notre Dame, 5: Ohio SUite, 3 Michii^n State, S: Notre Dame, 1 Western State, 4: Notre Dame, 2 Notre Dame, 7: Indiana, 3 Notre Dame, 3 : Northwestern, 2 Iowa, 7: Notre Dame, 6 Notre Dame, 17: Iowa, 2 Notre Dame, 19; Chicago, 6 Notre Dame, 13; Purdue, 5 Notre Dame, 7: Toledo, 5 Notre Dame, 5 : Wisconsin, 4 Michigan State, 13: Notre Dame, 9 

• TENNIS 
The appointment of Prof. Pedro de Landero, president of the faculty club as coach of the tennis team, re­sulted in an immediate improvement in the team. The clay courts re­cently built by the law building, back of Lyons hall, and east of the gym­nasium, will help more next year than they had a chance to this season. 
The aid did not come soon enough to result in a winning team, but a gratifying improvement was noted all along the route. 
The Irish lost five matches, one to Chicago, the Big Ten champion; and two to Michigan State, which fai' out­classes most of the Big Ten teams. The Spartans have compiled all sorts of winning records during the past several seasons, too numerous to mention. 
The point is, though, that Notre 
PROF. PEDRO DE LANDERO, '11 
Coach of Tennis, Fencing and Soccer 
Dame won tivo out of nine matches from Michigan State in the first match and three out of nine in the second dual. They won but one out of five from Chicago's varsity, but Notre Dame defeated Chicago's "B" team, 4 to 2. The Irish won from Armour Tech, Albion, and Detroit, for a season's record of four victories and five defeats. In the past three or four years it was a matter of course that Notre Dame would be blanked by Chicago and Michigan State. 
Prof de Landero's plan for next year is frequent practice indoors thi'oughout the fall and winter months, and daily supervised prac­tice for the spring. He has excellent material returning, by his own admis­sion, and he figures that Notre Dame ^^^ll come from the bottom rung to a rung very near the top of the collegi­ate tennis ladder next season. Fol­lowing are the scores: 
Northwestern, 6: Notre Dame, 0 Western State, 9: Notre Dame, 0 Notre Dame, G; Armour Tech, 3 Notre Dame, 4; Albion, 3 Notre Dame, 6; Detroit, 1 Michigan State, 7: Notre Dame, 2 Michigan State, 6; Notre Dame, 3 Chicago, 5; Notre Dame, 1 Notre Dame B, 4: Chicago B, 2 
• FACULTY GOLF 
Father George L. Holderith, C.S.C., faculty golf adviser to the varsity team, is now in a position to advise anyone of the faculty on the mode of recreation or exercise closest to his heart, for he is the first Notre Dame faculty club champion. He won his laurels by defeating Tom Conley, end coach, who had previous­ly taken the measure of Director of Athletics, Elmer F. Layden. 
J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, won the second flight trophy with a one-up victory over Prof. Stanley Sessler of the Art de­partment. 
Father Norbert de Grace, C.S.C, came all the way from India for his third flight competition, but he lost in the finals to Father Raymond Norris, C.S.C. 
The affair was pronounced a suc­cess by faculty and students alike, and will • undoubtedly be run again next spring. We put in a vote here and now for a fall handicap tourna­ment of one day's play, or, better yet, a match play tournament if time will permit—and this despite the fact that we met Father Norris in the third flight the day he shot a 90 and we were still in three figures. 
• FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS 
By buying season tickets for Notre Dame's "at home" games next fall, you can see one game free, according to figures listed in an attractive cir­cular authored by Art Haley and now in the printing process. 
Prices, including tax and postage 
are: 
Oct. 6—^Texas $2.20 
Oct. 13—Purdue 3.20 
Oct 20—Carnegie Tech 3.20 
Oct. 27—Wisconsin 3.20 
$11.80 
The price for season tickets for these four games is $8.00 plus 20 cents postage and 80 cents tax. The postage is charged only on one ticket, however, when two or more are or­dered. Advantages of getting season tickets to see the game played by the teams of Elmer Layden, Jack Chevigny, Noble Kizer, Howard Harp­ster, and Dr. Clarence Spears, are the use of the same seats for all games, better seats at a lower cost than could be had by buying tickets individually, the absence of last minute ticket wor­ries, and the paiiial payment plan which allows the buyer to pay three dollars down and the balance Sept. 1. 
The season ticket sale opens June 
25. The sale for individual tickets for all games begins August 1. The price scaie, is not ready yet lor. other than season tickets. For further in­formation, please write to Football Ticket Committee, University of-Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 19Si 
• MONOGRAM CLUB LUNCHEON 
The most important work done at the luncheon of Notre Dame mono­gram men Commencement Sunday was the appointment of a committee to handle next year's luncheon. The group also voted to organize along more formal and efficient lines. Fur­ther business of the meeting is not for publication at this time. 
• ROCKNE MEMORIAL FIELD HOUSE 
The Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, acting president of the University of Notre Dame, made an announcement regarding the plan to go ahead with the Eockne Memorial field house un­der more conservative lines than originally planned when he addressed the alumni at their annual dinner Saturday evening, June 2. The full text of his address appears in this issue. 
• TRACK 
Notre Dame's record - breaking which started last winter continued through the spring season, as a re­sult of which several Irish stars will be represented at the National Col­legiate A. A. games in Los -Ajigeles this month. 
Don Elser, weight star, and George Meagher, broad jumper, set records with great consistency whenever and wherever they performed. 
Elser, who played a lot of fullback last fall and will continue to do so next two years, and, we believe, will be one of the main cogs in the bas­ketball machine the next two years, now holds the following marks in the shot put: 
Central IntercoIIe^ate record—51 feet 6/10 In. Notre Dame outdoor record—51 feet G/10 in. Cartier field record—50 feet S inches. Notre Bame indoor record—16 feet 2 inches. Indiana state record—18 feet 9 3/4 inches. 
The only man competing for a middle western school, who has thrown the shot further than Elser, if our memory serves us correctly, is Khea of Nebraska who shaded 51 feet. Elser has added nearly five feet to his best indoor mark, and with two more years in which to learn, he may becom a distinct menace to the great marks made recently by Tor­rence of Louisiana State. 
In the discus, Elser is learning fast also. He has bettered 140 feet al­ready. We shouldn't be the least bit amazed to see him crack Tom Lieb's Notre Dame record of 147 feet 8 inches, and the Cartier field record of the same distance established by Eabat of Wisconsin. We feel sure, too, that he will establish himself as the greatest shot putter in the his­tory of middle western track. 

George Meagher of De Pue, 111., a stocky little blond kid with shoulders like a bull and legs like pile drivers, has been flirting all season with the 24-foot mark in the broad jump. He is in the top flight for the nation in 
CAPTAIN-ELECT MURPHY Nine ineets — 45 poiiifs 
this event. His records, as a sopho­more, follow. He should improve with time. 
Central Intercolleeriate conference record—24 ft. Indiana State record—24 feet 1/2 inch. Notre Dame record outdoors—24 feet 6 3/4 in. Cartier field record—24 feet 6 3/4inches. Notre Dame record indoors—23 feet 5% in. Notre Dame gymnasium record—23 ft. 5%in. 
Bad luck in the form of weak arches and sore tendons have beset Leo McFarlane two mile star, and Slike Layden, hurdler, respectively, both sophomores. Layden missed most of the indoor season and the early training for the outdoor season because of a tendon which was ap­parently ready to pull at any mo­ment. Neverthless, he covered the 120-yard high hurdles against Michi­gan State in 15 seconds flat to equal Chet Wynne's 13-year old Notre Dame record. McFarlane, who bet­tered the Notre Dame indoor, but did not get credit for the mark because he did not win his race, suffered from weak arches outdoors and did very little running. An attempt to whip him into top shape in two weeks after the arches healed failed, but he still has a chance of going to the 
N.C.A.A. meet at Los Angeles. Both Meagher and Layden show promise of being the best in the middle west in their events by the time they are seniors. 
Bob Bernard, a husky sophomore, is our candidate to set the pace for the middle west in the 440yard dash before he becomes a senior. He, too, suffered from sore legs- early in the spring—a result, we believe, of the unseasonable weather when outdoor work began—^but he has recovered and has approached 48 flat in his event. He combined natural speed with a world of courage and good judgment. He hasn't too much re­spect for any opponent and will run 'em all to win. 
Vincent Murphy of Cleveland, as consistent a winner as you could hope for, now holds the indoor and outdoor Notre Dame high jumping records. He has cleared 6 feet 5% inches in­doors and 6 feet 5% inches outdoors. His space in Herb Jones' good book is an unbroken row of 5's represent­ing first places in six dual meets, the indoor and outdoor C.I.C. affairs, and the state meet. Nine events—45 points for Murphy. 
Among the very capable perform­ers Notre Dame loses by graduation are Capt. Joe Young, plucky little miler who received the Byron V.Ka­naley prize of 5200.00 for being ad­judged the most gentlemanly senior monogram man who stands high in his studies and is a good leader of men; Jim Fagan, gritty hurdler who made some 30 points for the Irish the past season; Eddie King, mile star; Ed Krause, who was prevented from competing by an elbow injury received in the spring football game, but who made his share of points as a sophomore and a junior, and Clyde Roberts, the most versatile runner on the squad. 
Next year's team will be aided by John Francis, winner of the A.A.U. 1,600 meter run in Chicago last win­ter; Livicky, a weight man who, as a freshman, bettered many records, such as 'the Notre Dame, Cartier field, C.I.C, state, and others with the javelin and discus; and several others of less brilliance at present. Coach John P. Nicholson can develop them if anyone can, however, as wit­ness the team he turned out the past season. Only Murphy, Meagher, Lay­den and Elser stood out in high school circles. Many of the others, such as Bernard and McFarlane, did not even compete until they came to Notre Dame. 
We have previously recorded the Irish showings at the Kansas, Drake, and Penn relays. Ohio State won-a dual meet at Columbus, 71 to GO; Notre Dame defeated Michigan State, 80 1/3 to 50 2/3 at Notre Dame; and lost to Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, 68 2/3 to 57 1/3. Notre Dame gave Indiana's great team a real scare in the state meet, finishing second, five points behind the Hoosiers. Failing, for some unaccountable reason to place in any of the races, the Irish nevertheless piled up enough points 

June, IBSJf THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 283 
to take fourth in the outdoor C.I.C. meet behind Indiana, Marquette, and Michigan State. The margin was so close that had the runners come through a little better, Notre Dame could have won. The half-mile relay team took second but, according to press reports, was disqualified for dropping the baton. In several events Notre Dame could have cut in for thirds and fourths had Coach John P. Nicholson had his full strength repre­sented, but he took only the men he thought were sure of placing, allow­ing the others to reutm to their homes when the scholastic year ended. 
FIRST NATIONAL TRACK MEET SUCCESSFUL 
Everyone likes to get on the band wagon of a successful venture. Notre Dame alumni know their -Alma Mater well enough by now to know that nearly everything Notre Dame begins has a successful conclusion. .A.nd even if the sledding proved a bit hard at first, we know the alumni w^ould get on the band wagon of the Notre Dame National Interscholastic track and field championships in an even bigger way than they did for the first meet. But the first meet—the first of its kind in the history of the coun­try—assured success for the similar annual meets of the future. 
Twenty-four teams and 205 indi­vidual athletes entered. Twenty-one teams and more than 200 athletes ac­tually competed. Every section of the country was represented. Marks established in the meet compared fa­vorably with those made in other high school meets throughout the country. 
Director John P. Nicholson stated in announcing the meet that he thought three or four years would be required for the championships to acquire a national significance, but it took but a few months. West Cath­olic of Philadelphia took first honors. St. -Moysius college high school of New Orleans was second. Other hon­ors were divided among the middle western teams, Jesuit high school of New Orleans, and Bellarmine high school of Tacoma, Wash. 
Red Hearden's team from St. Cath­erine's of Racine, and Tom King's team from St. Teresa high school of Decatur, 111., were alumni-coached teams competing. 
The directors were more than pleased with the large and cosmopoli­tan representation. The athletes and coaches went away singing the praises of the University, for Direc­tor Nicholson overlooked no detail in the running of the meet itself and in providing entertainment for the con­testants and their parties. 
The present aim is to double the entry list for next year. Alumni can do much to help this cause by talking about the meet to their nastors. school heads, and individual athletes. Schools in your towns which have track teams should be represented by at least one outstanding star. Schools which do not have track teams may start them and develop them to a high plane as a result of the meet, thus giving Catholic track athletes a desire to remain in Catholic high schools and an incentive to continue ther educations beyond high school. 
TRACK COACH J. P. NICHOLSON 
"Congratnlations!" 
either at Notre Dame or elsewhere. 
Alumni who believe that they can exert some influence in increasing the number of entries for next year are asked to write to Coach John P. Nicholson, Athletic Association, Notre Dame, Ind. Their names will be placed on his mailing list to receive announcements of the next meet, and the names of any interested high school coaches or athletic directors will be placed on the list gladly. Fol­lowing are the team standings for the 
first meet, for your guidance:  
TEAM STANDINGS  
Team—  Points  
West  Catholic. Philadelphia  48  
St.  Aloysius,  New Orleans  25  
De Paul. Chicago  23^4  
De  LaSalle, Chicago...  
Mount Camiel, Chicago-.  
Aquinas, LaCrosse  
St.  Ignatius, Chicago  
Cathedral Latin,  Cleveland- 
Corpus Christi, Galeshurg, 111—  
St.  Catherine's, Racine  

Northeast. Philadelphia  ti i 1 1 1 n  
TVcfltiii', TTIH J CniVtnWr­ n ft  

Keogan at Texas Tech 
Coach George E. Keogan of the Notre Dame basketball team will have charge of basketball at the an­nual Texas Tech coaching school at Lubbock, Tex., July 30 to August 11. The Texas Tech school is generally recognized as one of the finest in the country. 
Ed (Moose) Krause, captain of the 1933-34 team and thrice all-Ameri­can, will assist, demonstrating the fine points Keogan makes. Krause will also demonstrate in football, es­pecially for Noble E. Kizer, the Pur­due generalissimo. 
Krause will coach next fall at St. Mary's college, Winona, Minn. 
BISHOP McNAMARA 
(Continued from Page 270) 
you seek preferment at the cost of honor; you will win for her no laurels if you gather only spoils for death. It is not in the fame and fortune of her sons that Notre Dame finds her reward, but in men who have the courage to reflect her spirit and to give to the world what she has given' to them. 
There are thousands who have never trod this campus to whom your alma mater is a source of joy and pride. Their hopes are in your keep­ing. Loving Notre Dame, they would say to you in the words of a friend to Francis of Assist, "Take care to be as good as men think you are, for many people have put their trust in you." For you Notre Dame is here, but to the world at large it is wher­ever you are, honored when you are honored, shamed when you are shamed. Her reach will be only as long as your arm, her influence what you make it, and the respect in which she is held only that which you en­gender through your efforts to up­hold her standards. And your efforts to enrich her heritage will be the measure of your life. To live is to grow and since one grows in giving of the best that is in his heart and soul, your growth in all that makes for a life worth while will be as your love and devotion to the cause of Christ and Notre Dame. 

284 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Jtme, 193i 
able combination of Dean McCarthy 

A RESUME OF NINETIETH COMMENCEMENT and Vince Fagan, was heartily re­
ceived. 

(Continued from Page 265) 
Everyone involved admits that 
age for the entire architecture course, to Frederick R. Kellogg, Rock Springs, Wyoming. 
16.
 The Architecture Prizes, for the architecture graduates with the second and the third highest averages, to William L. Newberry, Alliance, Nebraska (second), and John J. Brust, Milwaukee, Wisconsin (third). 

17.
 The Ralph Thomas SoUitt Prize, for the best design submitted as a solution to a special architectural problem, to Clifford F. Sausville, South Orange, New Jersey. 

18.
 The Gertrude S. SoUitt Prize, for the best work submitted as a solu­toni to a special architectural prob­lem, to Edward J. Fitzmaurice, Win­chester, Indiana. 


10. The Joan of Arc Medal, for the best student in French, to George 
C. Martinet, Charleroi, Pennsylvania. 
20. A trophy, presented by the student body of the University of Notre Dame, to a Notre Dame - All American football man, a Notre Dame-All American basketball man, to an outstanding gentleman, sports­man and student, Edward W. Krause, Chicago. 
At eleven o'clock a select but en­tirely too small crowd of delegates gathered for the Fifth Annual Coun­cil of Local Alumni Clubs. An hour's discussion based on the theories and experiences encountered by the Clubs and the Alumni Office in pursuing the program of prospective student contacts was enjoyed and contributed to by delegates from Chicago, Green Bay, Cleveland, Washington, D.C., and the St. Joseph Valley. A number of new and interesting ideas were presented which vrill be submitted to the Clubs in later communications. 
At two o'clock the Catholic high school track stars gathered on Car­tier Field for the first annual event of its kind. It was successful this year beyond expectations. The meet was won by West Philadelphia Cath­olic High after a campaign to come out for it that was in itself a big step toward a victory. 
Michigan State's baseball team came on Cartier Field at 3 o'clock and so far forgot Emily Post on Commencement athletics as to admin­ister a rather definite reversal to the Notre Dame nine's finale. 
At 6 o'clock, or as soon thereafter as the Victory Banquet of the visit­ing interscholastic track stars per­mitted, 900 alumni jammed the West Hall of the University Dining Halls for the annual Alumni Banquet. The hall was beautifully decorated and the menu in keeping with the great tradition established by the banquets of years gone. President M. Harry Miller, '10, was in the chair. Invoca­

tion was pronounced by His Excel­lency, Bishop McNamara, happily present. Following the Banquet, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, acting president, read the annual President's Address, reprinted in this issue. Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, spoke briefly, expres­sing the appreciation of the Congre­gation for the visit of the Apostolic Delegate. Father Donahue also paid eloquent tribute to Father Charles O'Donnell. Harry Miller outlined briefly the Association year, and in­troduced the new ofiicers, turning over the gavel to Timothy P. Galvin, new President, who closed the meet­ing with a blessing from the Apos­tolic Delegate who had recently ar­rived from a dinner at St. Mary's. 
Motive for adjourning the Ban­quet at an early hour was contained in the next event of the evening, a pioneer venture in pioneering — the "Shades of Notre Dame," skits based on tradition of the University. 
In Washington Hall at 8:30, the University Theatre, the Glee Club and sundry supplementary talent of a high order, repeated a performance which at 6:30 had introduced the guests of the University to the history and traditions of such memorable persons and places as Brother Leep's candy store, Louis Nickel's Hotel, the trenches of FYance, and the shores of the Lake. A panorama of the familiar names of former years passed in a review written and set to music by such informed and able talent as Fathers Tom and Eugene Burke, Vince Fagan, Joe Casasanta, Norbert Engels, Dean J. E. McCarthy, Chet Grant, and recruits to this brilliant company from the younger alumni now on the campus—Jerry Roach, Clay Johnson, Clyde Craine and Eu­gene Healy. Brother Leopold's store, with the poem by Andy Moynihan a part of it, brought sincere applause. Similarly impressive were the scene in the trench of Charteve-sur-la-Mame, with Father Walsh bestowing a degree upon Dan McGIynn, and the scene by the lake with a Senior re­citing the history of Notre Dame to a Freshman, with many of the his­toric figures named passing in shadowy parade along the margin of the lake. 
Much credit is due the N. D. archi­tects in South Bend who worked on several scenes which added immeasur­ably to the effect. Also to be praised is Frank Kelly, '19, who cheated ill­ness to aid in the direction of the production. The Glee CluD, as al­ways, supplied excellent musical tal­ent in the many musical scenes. The "Irish Toast," a drinking song by the the Commencement production only scratched the surface of dramatic and musical material in the past and present Notre Dame. It is confidently believed that this significant contribu­tion to the Commencement of '34 is much more than that, a contribution to the future Notre Dame in the field of the stage and song. 
Sunday, June 3 Commencement Day proper was launched with the always impressive procession of Seniors, faculty and clergy. The effectiveness of the academic gowns and the clerical robes seem almost to syiribolize the harmony of religion and education. At 9 o'clock the Solemn Pontifical Mass was begun in the beautifully decorated Gymnasium with His Ex­cellency, the Most Rev. Amleto Cicog­nani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate, as celebrant. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, was assisting priest, Revs. George Holderith, C.S.C, and Henry Glueck­ert, C.S.C, deacons of honor. Revs. Thomas Kelly, C.S.C, and Johji Rey­nolds, C.S.C, deacons of the Mass. Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C, was master of ceremonies. 
The Baccalaureate Sermon was preached His Excellency, Bishop McNamara of Baltimore. 
The University Choir of Moreau Seminary sang the music of the Mass, directed by Rev. James Con­nerton, C.S.C, '20. 
Following the Mass, the Delegate blessed the Senior Flag, and the academic procession moved with it to the flagstaff on the Quadrangle where it was raised. The University Band led the procession. 
Monogram alumni met in the Uni­versity Dining Halls for luncheon at noon, with Elmer Layden, director of athletics, presiding. 
At 4 o'clock came the event which is the key to what has become a three-day occasion, the awarding of degrees. Presided over by the Dele­gate, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, with the aid of Deans Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, Thomas F. Stein­er, C.S.C, Thomas F. Konop and J. 
E. McCarthy and Acting Dean Fen-Ion, gave the degrees to the 517 graduates. 
Honorary Doctorate of Laws de­grees were given to the following dis­tinguished men: The Hon. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State of the United States; The Most Rev. John M. Mc­Namara, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Baltimore; Frank C Walker, '09, Executive Director of the National Emergency Council, and Doctor Maurice Goldblatt, Director of the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery of the University. 

Jjine, 193i THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS DELIVERED BY FRANK C. WALKER, '09 
(Continued from Page 268) 

governments and within Cook County, Illinois, alone, there are more than 400 separate governing bodies. 
I direct these matters to your at­tention for the very good reason that I believe that for the young univer­sity man there lies here one immedi­ate and practical point of attack upon the problems of his nation. 
There is great need for serious study to eliminate -waste and extrav­agance, poor organization and cor­ruption in public office. 
Turning to your own National Gov­ernment may I direct your attention to but a few of its vast problems— problems that richly merit the thoughtful and devoted consideration of the college and university man of today. Never before in history has the college man of our country had spread out before him so vast an array of interesting topics in the field of economics, sociology and gov­ernment. Never before has there been greater need for the intelligent youth of our country to study its problems with a view to finding the con-ect solution. 
The very organization itself, -svith its thousand and more major bu­reaus and divisions, its million of em­ployees, its, vast budget running into billions of dollars, must surely sug­gest to the thoughtful student the many improvements that can and must be brought about, that our gov­ernment may carry on as an efficient unit of sociological machinery. 
We have been, these past years, and are now, sui-viving a wave of crime that would properly be styled an absolute disgi-ace to any other na­tion. Yet we of America boast of our leadership in civilization. 
I hope that you can correct this intense lack of respect for law and its enforcement which in recent years became the worst blot upon our en­tire history. 
Already some correction of these conditions has been undertaken. An aroused public sentiment to uphold and to enforce laws now is driving the vicious criminal element into re­tirement and into the prisons. What is most promising is that public offi­cials are finally awakening to their sense of responsibility. You must re­vitalize this spirit. 
Prohibition was in a large measure responsible for the criminal wave that has swept the country. The utter disrespect, for law which at­tended it has destroyed in a moral sense a large number of our people. 
A lack of public opinion, and a careless, and sometimes absolutely immoral, officialdom has been respon­sible, and only crusading youth with intelligent devotion to the cause can restore real decency. 
Most _ disturbing in all this effort to bring about a real law enforce­ment has been a shameful apathy to­ward jury duty. 
The problem of bringing about en­forcement and supporting legislation to correct it in an adequate and ap­propriate way is a mighty one. It in­volves not only the National Govern­ment and its enforcement arras but the police bureaus of the State and local units. What is equally more important, it involves the preventive measures of correct environment and all the contributing factors thereto. 
An important element of this type to consider is that of adequate and modem housing — something which this country must provide and foster if it is to keep abreast of civilization. No longer must it lag behind the na­tions of Europe in this significant field. England has felt the need and has met it by building 1,000,000 new homes since the World War and by planning 500,000 for the near future. 
Health is often an index of moral tendencies—^low vitality a fertile field for the implanting of anti-social ideas. Poor living conditions, detri­mental as they are to normal health and growth, exact their toll in the warped lives of the criminal. 
The pride of the home-owner in his possession, denied many today, may be a signal element which your in­fluence may contribute to national progress. 
The problem of taxation, vital in the life of every nation and always a major ill, has been among this coun­trj-'s gi'eatest difficulties. The tax bill amounts annually to more than thirteen billions of dollars, and in one or more of its myriad forms reaches into practically every home. At its present gross rate it becomes nearly a quarter of the national in­come. The inequalities of the tax burden have been distressing to most nations. 
You may be able to give to your country a coordinated system of taxa­tion, fair, just, and equitable to all— one that may correct the abuses and inequalities of the present haphazard system. 
The greatly involved agricultural problem has been most disturbing in recent years. The agricultural ad­justment program was adapted to provide, at the same time not only a measure of immediate financial suc­cor, but also a reduction in the enor­mous crop surpluses which overhung the market, and promote ultimately a more efficient use and conservation of our land resources. 
Adopted in the midst of pressing emergency, it has beyond doubt brought some measure of alleviation. The question of its continuance for a period beyond emergency; the ques­tion of confining production to satis­fy our own markets, and the broader question of world markets, with its inevitably involved tariff and trade agreements are all interwoven and complicated. These matters of policy must be determined and you must share your burden of responsibility in bringing about their solution. 
The conduct of the nation's tariff adjustments too often has been solely in the interest of special classes, in­dividuals or sections, usually with the idea of political ascendancy as its main dictate. It should be your en­deavor to reserve this power for the potential good that it contains to ad­just equitably the production costs of other nations, insuring to each the freedom of those industries for which it is naturally adapted, instead of allowing artificial and unhealthy stimulation of a basically unsuitable trade. 
History once more repeats itself, for again as we emerge from the de­pression our labor problem becomes increasingly acute. Labor strives to exact a greater share of the benefits that seem in the offing. What remedy is to be offered for disputes of this character that always engender the most bitter of hatreds—^widen the breach between employer and em­ployee, and hamper and retard real restoration and progress? Thinking men agree that with business at low ebb the problem of increasing com­pensation is a difficult one. Basically, should not the solution be found in some or all of the following: 
(1)
 Stimulating private capital that has been too slow to act; 

(2)
 Reviving the heavy industries that have so sadly lagged behind in our period of recovery; 

(3)
 Opening up foreign markets by reciprocal tariffs and trade agree­ments, and last 

(4)
 A well-cauculated plan of public expenditures directed at fore­station, rivers and harbors, soil ero­sion, and similar projects that can best be cared for by the state? 


The spirit that guides and governs the men involved in these serious con­troversies means so much. 
K the mental attitude of those who represent labor is fair and tolerant and understanding, so much less diffi­cult does it become to win universal sympathy for their cause. If the mentors of industry make their ap­proach in much the same manner and with a willingness to recognize that labor has a just right to fair partici­pation in the recovery, which, I trust, God, is on its way, then real advance­ment will be made toward true con­tentment and happiness. 
Can you find more fertile field than this for your talents? 
Much has been said and much has been written of late concerning the insecuritj' of our modem wage earn­er. The day before I left New York, Walter Lippman, for whose ability I have high esteem, presented in his column an intelligent appeal directed to this proposition. Many of the lead­ers in public life have, as we all know, been meditating upon this problem. Surely it is not a policy to be determined haphazardly, though we are all looking to a forward step in this direction. His discussion of it should serve to stimulate real think­ing by those who.have not given it the consideration it richly merits. Be­cause of his clarity of mind I shall, with your permission, quote one or Uvo of the most striking paragraphs of his appeal, in the hope that you may give it serious consideration. Realizing, he says, that the wage earners are "the most exposed, the most vulnerable and the most inse­cure group in the nation," Mr. Lipp­man continues: "Who can deny it? Who can fail to recognize that for their sakes as a matter of social jus­tice and social decency, for the sake of the nation as a whole, the modem state must assume the obligation to overcome this insecurity? 
"For that reason this is the proper time to take a national commitment to establish protection against the hazards of unemployment, of sick­ness," old age, of technological dis­placement, of sweating and exploita­tion. No doubt it is true that in­dustry as a whole is at the moment, not able to meet the costs of such protection. But to admit that is merely to say that the operation of a system of protection should be de­layed until recovery is greater. How­ever, since it will take a long time to work out such a system, it is not one minute too early to begin laying out the plans for it. 
"It is not a matter of diverting attention from more or less insolu­ble disputes at the factory gates. It 

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
is a matter of devoting energies to things that can be accomplished to make the position of labor more se­cure instead of letting all our ener­gies be distracted and frittered away in bitter and inconslusive quarrels. 
"What better policy is there than to say: for the immediate disputes, diplomacy and compromise; for the surest relief, the promotion of re­coverj' itself, for the basic grievances of labor arising from its insecurity, a national commitment to a system of insurance and protection?" 
Your best service can be rendered by keeping these things always before your minds as you seek out your main objectives in life. You must be unselfish—you must give a portion of your time and some of your thoughts to an analysis of these diffi­cult principles that are so closely iiiterwoven with your lives. You need not, unless you are inclined, enter government service, but you can and should be alert to its prob­lems and ready at all times to give aid to their solution. 
In many countries there is a strik­
Jime, 193i 
ing tendency among college and uni­versity men to seek out a career in government. It would redound to our credit if that same tendency was more apparent with us. 
The Govenments of the world have fallen into disorder and confusion. This country is beginning its course upward from these sad disturbances. 
You, well mobilized, with the cru­sading spirit, can bring order out of it all. To you must the nation look for its leadership. 
So, with these solemn obligations you must go forth. You must go in the same spirit and with the same devout intent that guided our great President at his inauguration. He humbly addressed his God: 
"May He protect each and every one of us—^may He guide me in the days to come." 
In this sincere spirit of service you, too, must humbly ask the divine gui­dance in the tasks you are about to assume, in order that you may do your part in holding for us the things we deem sacred and essential to our welfare and happiness. 

Father O'Hara Gives President's Address at Banquet 
(Continued from Page 272) 

the religious members of the faculty. Mention of the Infirmary brings to mind the fact that the student health continues excellent. The Dining Hall, I believe, shares with the health serv­ice and the recreational program in accounting for this condition. Since the Dining Hall opened in 1927, we have lost only three students through illness. The other student deaths have been the result of accidents. During the past year there were. 1554 bed patients in the Infirmary and 12,000 student meals served. There were some serious cases of illness, but none of them resulted fatally. Thanks be to God. 
I want to make use of this occa­sion to thank the alumni for their splendid spirit of cooperation with the promotional service inaugurated this year by Mr. Armstrong, Secre­tary of the Alumni Association. -A.t his request, thousands of applicants for Notre Dame have been inter­viewed by Alumni in their home towns, in an effort to select for Notre Dame the high school gradu­ates most likely to succeed at this particular school, most likely to be good Notre Dame men. Mr. Arm­strong, and his assistant, Mr. Dooley, together with the Registrar and sev­eral members of the faculty, have visited approximately 200 schools this year, for talks and for intei-views with members of the graduating class. Greater care in the selection of can­didates will give a far better caliber to the Freshmen entering each year, and -will spare us much of the effort that is wasted on the undesirable candidates who have to be weeded out. 
Two conventions were held at the University during the year, one a regional conference of the Catholic Association for International Peace, and the other a regular meeting of the Indiana Association of Sociolo­gists and Economists. 
During the past summer approxi­mately 150,000 people visited the University on their way to or from the World's Fair. A free guide serv­ice was organized for the benefit of these visitors, and I am sure that a splendid impression of the University was spread abroad by these %-isitors. 
All in all, for the depression per­iod, we have reason to be satisfied. God has been very good to us, the Alumni have been very loyal, our friends have multiplied, and the bless­ing of God has been on this unique work of His Mother. Your presence here tonight is a renewal of your pledge of loyalty to her interests. May she ever bless and protect you. 

June, 1934 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 287 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 

Please excuse my more or less dil­atory tactics in not previously writ­ing and acquainting you with devel­opments in the Connecticut Valley, Notre Dame-wise. 
Before going into the information pertaining to the crowd in this loca­tion, I wish to extend my personal and official thanks in appreciation for the commendable co-operation you and your office have extended to me. 
The list prepared during your ab­sence and on extremely short notice was received within the time speci­fied. The suggested form for prepar­ing a constitution, it seems to me, will be of great assistance. 
In order that you might have a clear picture of affairs in this section, it is necessary to reminisce a bit. 
Universal Notre Dame night a more or less impromptu gathering was held at Springfield. As an out­growth, of the get-together, it was planned to issue a notice to all po­tential members in the section— hence the request for the list. 
The first real meeting was held in Hartford, April 30 at the Hotel Bond. A fairly representative group at­tended, twenty-one. In the absence of Hon. William J. Granfield who had been duly notified and who tele­grammed his regrets and acquiesced to our intentions, James B. Curry pre­sided. A nominating committee was appointed and the following slate of officers nominated and elected unani­mously : 
Honorary President, William J. Granfield, Springfield; Honorar y Chaplain, Rt. Rev. Francis Keough; President, Thomas E. Ferguson, Thompsonville; 1st Vice President, Raymond P. Snyder, Chicopee, Mass.; 2nd Vice President, Vincent Turley, Hartford; Secretary, Franci s D. Ahem, Hartford; Treasurer, John B. Sullivan, Springfield; Chaplain, Rev. Patrick Quinlan; Executive Commit­tee, John F. Shea, Holyoke; Thomas 
B. Curry, Hartford; James A. Curry, Hartford; Cyril Caffney, New Brit­ain; David Hayes, Hartford; Dr. David Melumphy, Hartford; Joseph-
B. Flynn, Hartford; John J. Gran­field, Springfield; William A. Hur­ley, Springfield; Cletus T. Lynch, Meriden; Donald A Teehan, North­ampton; Joseph Yachym, Westfield, Mass.; John Cianci, New Britain; James G. Murphy, Middletown; Prank Laraia, Hartford; Raymond Griffin, Hartford. 
Committee on Nominations: David Hayes, Hartford; Thomas B. Curry, Hartford; William A. Hurley, Spring­field. 
The Secretary was designated to acquaint you of this meeting and also inform you that it was decided to recognize as Club members with full rights and privileges persons who at­tended Notre Dame for a year or more. 
Another meeting was held at Hart­ford, May 14 at the Hotel Bond. Twenty-six attended. A list of mem­bers is enclosed. Plans for a meet­ing at Springfield and also a dance in Hartford District were discussed. The committee for the meeting in Spring­field are: William A. Hurley, Chair­man; John B. Sullivan, John Gran­field, Raymond P. Snyder. 
The Dance Committee: Frank Far­rell. Chairman; Vincen t Turley, George D. Shay, Cyril Gaflfney, John Cianci, William A. Hurley, Williard Furey, Tim Hinchey, John D. Shea, John LjTich (student). 
It is our intention to have the dance at a country club near Hart­ford during the latter part of June. A meeting will be held tomorrow eve­ning. A suggestion has been made that announcement be sent to per­sons around Hartford who are on the Athletic mailing list and students now at school. It would be appreciated if you could furnish the information. 
The spirit manifested at the meet­ings seem to be indicative of a strong desire for an active organization. We feel that we can supply that desire and shall endeavor to create and per­petuate a strong Notre Dame Club. 
Some of the boys journeyed to Springfield a few weeks ago to sort of wait on Jimmie Crowley who was the guest speaker at an Industrial As­sociation banquet. He certainly does a fine job of it and is a real credit to the school. The toastmaster re­ferred to the coterie of Notre Dame boys' presence and in response we gave Crowley a 'He's a Man." 
This has become quite a lengthy letter but feel that I have given you the story on activities up to date for this group. I do hope it ^vill reach you in time for the ALUMNUS. You will be kept informed as to develop­ments. 
Again, accept mine and the Club's appreciation for your splendid serv­ice and cooperation. 
Best personal regards, 
Francis D. Ahem, 
Secretary. 
JOLIET 
At the regular meeting of the club recently at the Woodruff Inn Hotel, plans were made for our summer out­ing. President Joe Silk will name the committee for this event during the next ten days. This is one of the big events listed on the annual N.D. program. The date has not been set. but watch this column and when it is set you will be invited to attend. If you happen to be in this vicinity, we will promise you that you will be glad you came. 
Our meetings are held the first Tuesday of the month at the Wood­ruff Inn, and we extend an invitation to every Notre Dame man to be pres­ent at 6:30 p.m. on that day. 
Francis J. Dunn. 
KENTUCKY 
For a long time I've been wanting to take a few minutes time-out from these microscopes, stethoscopes, and all other "scopes" and "ologies" of this medical school, to write you a few lines. They've .been keeping us pretty busy, however, and I've been wondering if those old stories they used to tell about the first year in Medical School don't apply with equal force to the second year, and probably to the third and fourth, too. 
The only other N.D. men here at the University of Louisville Medical School at present are JOHNNY FOR­SEE , '30, and BILL BUSCHE­MEYER, ex. '34, both of whom are freshmen. Oh, yes, there's JIM RYAN, ex. '33, who is a sophomore. JOHN KEANY, '32, is doing gradu­ate work in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Although it wasn't an official N.D. party or anything like that, the Crystal Ballroom of the Brown Hotel took on all the appearances of a Sen­ior Ball at the Palais on Easter Sat­urday night. Included in our party were RAY PPEIFPER, '32, JOHN KEANEY, '32, PIERRE ANGER­MEIER, '31, ED. CROCKETT, ex '32, of South Bend, JOHN LESKO, 
A.B. '32, Law '34, BOB RIGLEY, '32, of South Bend and Menominee, CHARLE Y SCHWAETZEL, '34, JOHNN Y SCHWARTZEL, ('38), MURRAY GLASGOW, ex '31, HENRY ASMAN, '32, and SIN­CLAIR KNOPP, who never attended Notre Dame but who spent nearly as much time there during '31 and '32 as we did, counting all those week­ends. It was on one such week-end that Knopp, arriving on the campus 

288 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Ju7ie, 1934. 
from a date at about 3 a.m., was met by the night watchman, who asked if he wanted the hall door opened. Imagine his surprise when Knopp re­plied, "Oh, never mind, I've got a key to the back door," and proceeded on around to the rear of the build­ing. He's very much a Noti-e Dame man. 
To get back to the party at the Brown, however! In another crowd were BILL BOSLER, about '18, PELLE BECJECER, '35, and FRED CARIDEO, '35. And to top off the evening, JOHN B ANN ON, '32, TONY SCHREINER, '32, BERNIE BLOEMER, ex '32, and BILL VEE­NEMAN, '34, dropped in before the of Law. Pierre Angermeier is with the Chas. Rosenheim Co., wholesale dealers in chinaware, etc., and was recently appointed secretary of the. concern—quite a promotion. Bloemer is engaged to be married, the date having been set for sometime early in June. 
Down here in Kentucky we feel quite proud of the additions to the coaching profession in this section with Don Miller, of the Pour Horse­men, here at St. Xavier High, and Chet Wynne and Ted Twomey at U. of Kentuckj-. 
I surely would like to hear from some of the old pre-Meds, especially MYKE CRAWFORD, ROY CATI-most enjoyable of all Notre Dame nights was had. 
Gene Buck, the famous Broadway composer and director of many Zieg­feld Follies acted as Toastmaster for the evening and sounded the keynote in stating that "Notre Dame Night was built on sacrifice and shall con­tinue to flourish on sacrifice by all those connected ^\^th this great insti­tution." 
Needless to say. Gene by himself would have made the gathering a successful one. Also appearing on the program were Supreme Court Justice Ernest E. L. Hammer, class of 1908, and Charlie Davis, '21, with some of his entertainers from the 
The New York Club Observed U.N.D. 

evening was over. Johnny Burkarth and his Orchestra came through with a splendid rendition of the Victory March. 
Ray Pfeiffer and John Keaney had dinner parties for the wsitors from South Bend — Crockett, Lesko, and Rigley — and most of those men­tioned above, together with a few more N.D. men I can't recall, were present. 
Now for some more definite infor­mation about fellows in this neigh­borhood: Pfeiffer, Bannon, Glasgow, and Schreiner are employed at the Frankfort Distillery Co., and claim that Four Roses, -Antique, Shipping-port, and a few other brands are the best on the market (Adv.). Pfeiffer is also attending the Jefferson School 
Night with this Splendid Banquet. Only part of the large turn-out is shown. 
ZONE, JOE RAYMOND, JOHN PA­PERA, et. al. Myke and I are now brothers in Phi Chi Medical Frater­nity. Although I am living at home, mail addressed to the Phi Chi Fra­ternity House, 223 E. Chestnut, Louisville, will reach me. 
Henrj' B. Asman, 32. . 
NEW YORK 
Two hundred fifty members and friends of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York gathered at 7 P. M. on Monday, April 16th, at the Hotel McAlpin, to celebrate "Universal Notre Dame Night." The party took the form of a banquet and it was conceded by all that the Hotel New Yorker where Charlie and his band have been having a most successful stay. Also, Walter 0' Keefe, '22, Broadway and radio star, as well as Ralph Dumke, '24 of the well known radio team, "Sisters of the Skillet." Bugs Baer, newspaper columnist and Christy Walsh put in a late appearance, and Bill Corum of the Evening Journal and John Kieran of the New York Times both gave interesting and well received talks. 
To make the party complete, Joe Brandy of 1920 made the long trek down from his newspaper and print­ing plant in Ogdensburg and enter­tained the group with many reminis­cences of his days on the campus with "Rock" and the "Gipper." The even­ing was brought to a successful con­

June, 193i THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 289 
elusion by bows from Johnny Law, Glenn Carberry, Earl Walsh and Dave Hayes. 
Loyalty, co-operation and sacrifice for and by Notre Dame were the key­notes of the evening and these attri­butes were well exemplified by the speakers and members in attending this wonderful "Notre Dame Night." 
PHILADELPHIA Another Commencement shall be a pleasant memory (long distance for we stay-at-homes) when this bedaz­zles my public's eye, and so shall an­other experiment, to take place about your press time: the first annual re­union-picnic of the alumni and stu­dents or alumni-to-be. June 17—rain or shine (a farseeing committee picks a place, where even a wet blanket won't be out of place)—is the date. Bring the Mrs., if in this area, the old spikes and bathing suit, and not too big an appetite, and we'll provide you an afternoon of fly-chasing that your muscles will remember a while. 
Come to think of it (or rather, to remember), national elections (a good young Democrat, Charlie Dough­erty, '26, hopes to hit the General Assembly next session—Good luck. Doc!) of the Association recall that even such good men can't mn •i\nthout gasoline even such an Austin as they'll be driving. We'll try to buy our gallon. 
If numbers don't make the differ­ence, a near-championship, if not the blue ribbon, will fly over West Phila­delphia Catholic High school after Jack Glasscott's boy burn up the cin­dei-s, June 1 and 2. The Club is co­operating in sending the Eastern Catholic champs mid-West. Too bad the water around Badin's Thousand Islands is no more: ask Ray Broder­ick, '35, about this same high school's nation-beating natators. Maybe Vince ("Archie") Donohue will leave Upper Darby's charms in time to make the meetings, after this blow for his pre­
• alma mater. But the Club's merely attempting to repay a little of its debt to the school for its cooperation with you recently. 
Nick Lukats was in town for the week-end of the fifth of May, but we don't know who the business was. Which reminds us. Jack Baldwin, '33, ought to be out Rosemont way short­ly. But betting nearer home, "Chief" Neeson's recent retreat-gi-oup, at Mal­vern, numbered several local members among those enjoying spiritual and mental regeneration. Again we hope that some day it will be wholly our own retreat. Bill Cooney, '32, was recently started on the ladder of his Dad's plumbing supply business. Wal­ter ("Dutch") Ridley is giving the 
Philadelphia Record the benefit of 
services the Plain Dealer might have 
had. 
The Reagan, Stuhldreher and 
Desch families report recent addition 
to the future Notre Dame football 
and track teams. Ray McNally, out­
stepping brother Vince, will soon be 
among the Benedicts, we fear. Mar­
tin Lammers, '19, no sooner came 
here, to head the local branch of the 
Continental American Life Insurance 
Company, than he decided to let the 
Sisters at St. Joseph's Hospital have 
his appendix for posterity. Last re­
ports have him about ready to get 
back to work. Jim Leonard, '34, is 
said to be under consideration for a 
contract with the Philadelphia Na­
tionals. Here's hoping they win the 
pennant, Jim, with your help. Doc 
Johnson got to talking, at the last 
meeting, of the days of '84-'87. You 
remember them, don't you, Jim? Only 
"old" John A. Neeson, recovered from 
the ill effects of the McClure cata­
strophe, could outdo those dates. 
Tom Magee, Secretary. 
ROCHESTER 
The club here is trudging along with plans in the ofiing for a beer party shortly; and another June 14; the latter to include the undergrads and new alumni. 
Information about the fellows here is relatively scarce; our Easter dance run with the Club at school having been given a setback by a week-late delivery of invitations — our Postof­fice here being moved that week. Swell break, eh! 
Joe FIjTin moved his offices and decided to do a real job and moved to another residence; incidentally be­ing married on the way. Probably old stuff to you; but shows some kind of a trend or other. 
Bill Jones, '32. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Now that my housecleaning and gardening are accomplished, more or less, I find time to send word about the club's observance of Mother's Day. 
In company with our mothers, wives and lady friends we attended Mass and Communion in the Cathe­dral of the Immaculate Conception and following the services had break­fast served in the Sun Room of the Leland Hotel. Altogether there were 33 present. Our attendance was cut down due to a number of men from out of the city wishing to spend the day at home with their mothers—^to which no one would object. 
Father Winkling, professor of His­torj' and Economics at "A. Confrey's" Junior College was the speaker at the breakfast. His timely remarks on "interest in Mothers — devotion to Mother church — Catholic education and Catholic leadership" were an in­spiration to all. 
Many thanks for the copy of the Religious Bulletin. We were pleased to know we are the first club to spon­sor this activity and intend to make it an annual event. Arrangements were made by Harry Argus, Jr., C. 
P. Hafel, and Joseph Churchman. 
Best wishes. Bob Graham. 
NEW NOTRE DAME CLUB IS FORMED IN LANSING 
The formation of a new and very promising Notre Dame club in cen­tral Michigan is announced in the following letter from its secretary, Charles J. O'Connor, '33: 
"Seventeen of your 'boys' met in the Hotel Roosevelt recently and formed a 'Central Michigan Club.' Joseph Stack was elected president, Charles O'Connor, secretary, and Tom King, treasurer. 
"We decided to include territory around Lansing to the extent of fifty or seventy-five miles. Will you be kind enough to send me the addresses of grads located in that area? Jack­son, Battle Creek, Kalamazoo, etc? 
"Monthly luncheons at 12:15 in the Hotel Roosevelt, the first Mon­days, have been arranged. 
"Any information concerning ac­ti^-ities will be appreciated, Mr. Arm­strong." 
Congratulations and the very best of wishes to the new club. It has within it all the elements of success. 
Notre Dame Aids Catholic Hour 
The monthly bulletin of the Na­tional Council of Catholic Men car­ried this stoi-y in its May issue: 
"Following a plea for assistance in the support of the Catholic Hour, which was carried recently in the University of Notre Dame Religious Bulletin, we have received a contri­bution amounting to $100. Father O'Hara, the vice-president of the University, informs us that ?50 is a contribution from the University it­self, and the remaining $50 is from the students. 
"In the name of the president of the N. C. C. M. and the members of its Board of Directors, we wish to thank Father O'Hara and all our friends at Notre Dame for their gen­erosity, and to assure them that their contributions will assist us materially in maintaining our broadcasts of Catholic truth." 

290 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 19Si 
=THE ALUMNI: 
• BIRTHS 
A note from HERBERT P. VALK­ER, '23, includes the belated news of the arrival of Anne Marie, on October 27th, 1933, Iowa City, Iowa. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROGER KILBY, '23. are the parents of a daughter, bom June 6th, in Chicago, Illinois. 
• ENGAGEMENTS 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Steinbach, Yankton, South Dakota, announce the engagement of their daughter, Dor­othy L., to FRANCIS J. TREWEIL­ER, '32, of Sioux Falls, South Da­kota. 
Mr. and Mrs. G. B. Brieger, Tay­lor, Texas, have announced the en­gagement of their daughter, Louise, to Dr. FRANCIS A. HEGARTY, '28, of Pittsburgh, Pa. Miss Brieger is the sister of EARL BRIEGER, '31, and LOUIS BRIEGER, ex. '34. 
• MARRIAGES 
Mr. and Mrs. George Lonergan an­nounce the marriage of their sister, Angela C. Myers, to CHARLES O'TOOLE, '23, on April 10th, Pitts­burgh, Penn. 
The marriage of Miss Clarice von Barandy, South Bend, Indiana, and JOHN S. BRENNAN, '2'4, took place at the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on June 7th. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Staunton announce the marriage of their daughter, Elizabeth Florence, to JAMES P. KENNEDY, '29, on June 2nd, at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Indiana. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Mary Murphy, Alpena, Michigan, and AL FORTIER, '30, took place on May 19th, in Alpena. 
Mr. and Mrs. A. T. CuUen an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Kathleen Agnes, to LEO J. SCANLON, '30, on May 22nd at Holy Trinity Church, Bucyrus, Ohio. 
Mr, and Mrs. James F. Conway an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Mary Rita, to JOHN J. QUINN, '30, on June 9th at St. Philomena's Church, East Cleveland, Ohio. 

Aliss Martha Martens, Mishawaka, Indiana, and WILLIAM T. CERRI, '32, were married on April 11th at Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Honor Teresa Chudleigh, East Orange New Jersey, was married to FRANCIS DENNEY, '32, on June 2nd, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Cathlyn Corell, Niles, Mich­igan, and RANDOLPH J. KENNY, '32, were married on May 19th, in Niles. 
Miss Kathrj-n Hartzer, South Bend, Indiana, and ARTHUR GEORGE EPPIG, '33, were married in Cardinal Mundelein's Chapel, Chicago, Illinois, on May 23rd. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Daly, South Bend, Indiana, and JO­SEPH BUSHER, '33, took place on May 30th, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Miss Ruth Anne McMillan, Pitts­burgh, Pa., and P. NORDHOFP HOFFMAN, '33, were married at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana, on June 4th. MARCHY SCHWARTZ, '33, served as best man. 
The marriage of Jliss Eileen Big­gins, Oak Park, Illinois, and LUCIAN DAIGNE.A.ULT, '34, of Montreal, Canada, took place on June 7th, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
• DEATHS 
Dr. THOMAS J. SWANTZ, '04, died at his home in South Bend on May 10th. Dr. Swantz was a well known physician in South Bend, hav­ing practiced there since 1907. 
SIDNEY EDER, '26, died in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, In­diana, on May 18, following an auto­mobile accident. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sysmpathy to: Rev. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C.S.C, '03, upon the death of his sister; to RALPH CALE­TRI, '32, upon the death of his mother; to JOSEPH, '26, and DICK HYLAND, '18, upon the death of their mother; to Rev. EDWARD FIN­NEGAN, C.S.C, '06, upon the death of his mother; to THOMAS PLOUFF, '23, upon the death of his father; to VINCENT TURLEY, '32, upon the death of his father. 
• PERSONALS 
(Names of those attending Com­mencement are listed under the Classes.) 
1877 
Frank H. Vennet, South Bend, Ind. 
1880 
Dr. J. B. Bertelins, South Bend, Ind. 
1883 
Joseph Smith, Chicago, III. 
1886 
Rev. B. J. 111. C.S.C.. Notre Dame, Ind. 
1887 
Warren A. Cartier, Fort Myers, Fla. 
1888 
V. Rev. J. A. Bums, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
1890 
Rev. J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Notre Dame. Ind. 
1891 
John li. Herman. South Bend, Ind. 
1893 
£. J. Maurus, South Bend, Ind. 
1894 
Dr. F. J. Powers, South Bend, Ind. 
1896 
Frank J. Butler, Lakewood, Ohio. Rev. Thos. Crumley, C.S.C, Notre Dame. Ind. 
1897 
Kev, John A. SlacNamara, Notre Dame, Ind. Sherman Steele, Chicago, HI. 
1898 
Charles Girsch. Chicago, 111. Frank E. Hcrine, South Bend, Ind. 
1899 
James Murphy, Rock Island, 111. Kev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C, Notre Dame Kev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
1900 
Louis C. M. Reed, New York. N. Y. 
1901 
Joseph Sullivan, Chicago, III. 
1902 
Kev. F. T. McKeon, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. Clement C. Mitchell, Chicaso, 111. 
1903 
John W. Duhbs, Mendota, 111. 
Robert Lynch, Green Bay, "Wis. 
John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Vitus G. Jones, South Bend, Ind. Kev. Matthew Walsh. C.S.C., Notre Dame 
Kev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., Notre Dame 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Elkhart, Ind. 
Francis X. Ackerman, Notre Dame 
Rev. Tliomas Irving. G.S.C., Notre Damti 
Byron V. Kanaley, Chicaso, HI. 
G. A. Farabaueh, South Bend, Ind. 
1905 
William B. Jamieson, Chicago, HI. 
Daniel J. O'Connor, Chicago, BI. 

June, 19Si THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
7906 mally received into the Carmelite 1921 
Rev. Eugene Burke. C.S.C., Notre Dame Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C, Notre Dame Rev. Edward J. Finneffan, C.S.C, Notre Dame Edward J. Kelly, Chicaso, HI. Daniel L. Madden, Chicaffo. HI. Wra. P. O'Neill, Mishawaka, Ind. Rev. John C. McGinn, C.S.G., Notre Dame Rev. John Ryan, C.S.G., Notre Dame 
J. W. Mclnemy, South Bend. Ind. Lawrence McNemey, Elffin, 111. 
1907 Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., N. D. Rev. William A. Bolscr, C.S.C., Notre Dame James V. Cunninffham. Chicago, 111. Rev. William H. Molony, G.S.G., Notre Dame 
Rev. Thomas Burke. C.S.C., Notre Dame 
1908 Vamum A. Parish, Momence, 111. Maximiimn J. St. George, Chicago, III. 
J. A. Caparo, South Bend, Ind. Rev- William A. Lennartz. C.S.C, Nctre Dame 
1909 

E. J. Arvey, Green Bay, Wis. 
E. P. Cleary. Notre Dame John V. Diener, Green Bay, Wis-. 
E. P. Escher, Detroit, Mich. John Fox, Washington, D. C. 
A. F. Gushurst, Lead. S. Dak. John B. Kanaley, Chicago, III. John Kennedy, Pittsburgh, Pa. John W, Schindler, Mishawaka, Ind. Frank Walker, Washington, D. G. 
1910 

In addition to being present for Commencement and for Father O'Donnell's funeral, Father Mike Moriarty visited the campus April 28. 
James E. Dcery, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Paul J. Donovan, Chicago, 111. 
Rev. P. E. Hctert, C.S.C, Notre Dame 
H. F. McDonagh, Chicago, HI. Harrj* Ikliller. Geveland, Ohio Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Cleveland, Ohio 
1911 

Rev. Thomas Lahey, C.S.C, Notre Dame 
Rev. John F. G'Hara, CS.C, Notre Dame Pedro A. de Landero. South Bend, Ind. 
Edward S. Figel, Chicago, 111. 
J. H. Lawton, South Bend, Ind. Joseph B. Murphy, Dayton, Ohio Fred L. Stcere, Chicago, 111. John C. Tully. LaGrange, 111. Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, Notre Dame 
1912 

Walter Duncan, La Salle, Illinois, insurance broker and banker, has re­cently bought and moved into a beau­tiful new home. Incidentally, one of Walter's sons, Walter, Jr., is to be a Freshman at Notre Dame next Sep­tember. He registered when he came over with his dad for the high school track meet and the Commencement week-end. 
John M. Bannon, South Bend, Ind. 
Walter, Duncan, LaSaile, Ind. 
F. L. Mendez, South Bend, Ind. John Murphy, Qeveland. Ohio 
J. Elmer Peak, South Bend, Ind. 
1913 

Miss Mary Margaret Kirk, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. Harry J. Kirk, Washington, D. C, was recently for­Order, receiving, in Washington, the white veil and holy habit of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. An uncle of the new nun. Sister Kathleen of the Holy Family, celebrated the solemn Mass which preceded the investiture. Says Harry in a letter: "No honor that has come to our family has filled me with greater pride than this calling of our oldest daughter to be a contemplative Carmelite. Let others of '13 match it." 
William L. Benitz, South Bend, Ind. Paul R. Byrne. Notre Dame Vem Janowski, South Bend, Ind. Rev. John Kelley, CS.C, Notre Dame. 
R. M. Kaczmarek, South Bend, Ind. 
1914 Walter L. Oements. South Bend. Ind. 
Charles Domis, Detroit, Mich. Ray Miller, Qeveland, Ohio 
1915 
Leo DuBois, with his wife and his cousin. Miss Mary Leachner, all of Cincinnati, visited the campus one week-end in May. They left a note of- greeting when they found the Alumni Office locked up on Saturday afternoon. 
Most Rev. John F. Noll, LL.D., F t Wayne, Ind. Mark L. Duncan, Chicago, III. Ray Eichcnlaub, Columbus, Ohio 
J. S. Malkowski. South Bend. Ind. Joe Plisko. Chicago. HI. Rev. P. H. Dolan, C.S.C, Notre Dame 
1916 
T. P. Galvin. Hammond. Ind. Rev. P. J. Haggerty, C.S.C, Notre Dame William C Henry, Chicago, 111. 
1917 
John M. Cooney, Ph. D., South Bend, Ind. ^ 
Charles Bachman. E. Lansing, Mich. John E. Cassidy, Peoria, HI. 
J. Paul Fogarty, Chicago, III. 
D. E. Hilgartner, Chicago, HI. Michael J. Long, Chicago, Bl. Fred Mahafifey, Indianapolis, Ind. 
A. A. McNichoIs, Chicago, 111. Harry E. Scott, Indianapolis, Ind. Rev. F. L. Gassensmith. C.S.C. Notre Dame 
1918 
Knowles Smith. Ph.D.. South Bend, Ind. 
\Villiam J. Andres, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
L. A. Glascott, Michigan City, Ind. Re%-. G. L. Holderith, C.S.C, Notre Dame Frank J. Hurley, Chicago. HI. Tom King, East Lansing, Mich. 
1919 
ClarencQ "Chick" Bader, Gary, Ind. 
I^Iauricc Carroll, Kansas City, Mo. 
L. v . Harmon, South Bend, Ind. Pat Murray, Buffalo. N. Y, Arthur C. Weinrich, Chicago. HI. Paul Fenlon, Notre Dame Rev*. J. H. McDonald, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1920 
Charles Grimes. Providence, R. I. 
Paul R. Conaghan, Chicago, HI. 
Vincent F. Fagan, South Bend, Ind. 
E. P. "Slip" Madigan. St. Mary's College, Cal. 
E. J. Meehan, South Bend. Ind. Walter Miller, Qeveland, Ohio 
H. P. Nester, Columbus, Ohio 
D. J. Patterson, South Bend, Ind. Rev. Thomas C. Duffy. C.S.C.. Notre Dame. 
Chet Grant, Notre Dame. Ind. William S- Allen, Chicago. Bl. Norman Barry. Chicago, Bl. John T. Higglns, Detroit, Mich. Edmund Meagher, Chicago, IlL Joseph F. Sanford, Muskegon, Mich. 
R. J. Schubmehl. South Bend, Ind. Callix E. Miller, South Bend. Ind. I^Tark E. Zimmerer, Kokomo, Ind. 
1922 
Daniel Hull, M.S., South Bend, Ind-Gcrold Ashe. Rochester, Chicago. HI. Jerome F. Dbcon. Chicago. III. Fred B. Dressel. South Bend. Ind. 
C. B. Fites, Kokomo, Ind. 
A. H. Huguenard, South Bend, Ind. Gerald Jones. Dixon, HI. George G. Kerver, Qeveland. Ohio Leo A. Mahoney, South Bend. Ind. Thomas S. McCabe, Chicago. HI. Harry Mehre. Athens, Ga. 
R. R.. Phelan. East Orange. N. J. Chet Wynne. Lexington, Ky. Gerald Brubaker, Elkhart, Ind. Clarence "Pat" Manion, South Bend, Ind. Herman Wenzke. Notre Dame, 
1923 
I recently returned from a trip to the West Coast and had the pleasure of a nice visit with Francis Neitzel in Boise, Idaho. He is in the finan­cing business with his father in Boise and says although he will not chal­lenge other members of the class for making the most money, that he will challenge them for really enjoying life. As far as the country goes, I believe he can set up a real argu­ment. However, I do not believe he, still being single, can give we married men any argument at all. 
I stopped at Columbia University in Portland and had a nice visit with Father Frank Cavanaagh and was also very pleased to see Duke Hodler who has moved from Bums, Oregon into Portland. 
.Coming back from the West I stopped at South Bend and was there Universal Notre Dame night. Joe Cassasanta, of course, was there with his band and was given quite an ovation for a series of concerts in connection with the basketball sea­son. I also saw Father John Cava­naugh and Louis Bruggner and Bill Voss. It seems that the Harvey High School basketball team was quite some team this year and Bill was up with some of the team to do honor to the Notre Dame basketball team. A testimonial dinner for the basket­ball team was held in connection with the Universal Notre Dame night cele­bration. 
Paul Castner. 
Louis Bruggner. South Bend. Ind. 
Joseph Casaaanta, South Bend, Ind. 
Paul Castner, Cleveland, Ohio 
John F. Connell, South Bend, Ind. 
M. J. Dacy, Chicago, HI. Rev. N. J. DeGrace, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind-Leo P. Rieder, South Bend, Ind. 
P. C. Doran. Akron. Ohio 

292 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1934. 
Frank S. Doriot, Brookline, Mass. Art J. Dicdrich. South Bend. Ind. Bernard B. Foley, Crawfordsvjlle, Ind* William J. Furey, South Bend. Ind. Edward W. Gould, Chicaffo, III. Eugene M. Hines, Chicano, HI. Fred Joyce, Geveland, Ohio 
J. W. Montague, Chicago. 111. R, J. Nash, Chicago, HI. Joseph W. Nyikos. South Bend, Ind. 
E. J. Pas*ton, South Bend, Ind. John M. Rohrbach. Crown Point, Ind. Merlin Rolwing, St. Louis, JIo. 
W. E. Shea, Dayton, Ohio Frank "Wallace, New York City 
1924 

Joe Adler, Joliet, HI. 
George Barry, Chicago, 111. 
J. R. Bergman. Chicago, III. 
C. J. Caldwell, aeveland, Ohio Thomas E. Cooke, Chicago. III. 
E. Newell De Gursc. Marine City, Mich. Thomas C- Donovan, Chicago, III. John J. Itore, Cleveland, Ohio 
J. Henry Fannan, Rockford, HI. Norman M. Feltes, Chicago, HI. Levi Geniesse, Green Bay, Wis. 
L. C. Heringcr, Joliet. HI. Ray Hoyer, A. M.. South Bend. Ind. Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., Notre Dame Harold Londo, Green Bay, Wis. 
T. Clifford Noonan, Chicago, III. Joseph J. Norton, Detroit, Mich. John C. O'Donnell, Mansfield. Ohio John P. O'SulIivan, Muscatine, Iowa. Robert P. Reagan. Philadelphia. Pa. Robert Riordan, South Bend, Ind. 
1925 

Bob Hovrland, of St, Louis, assist­ant advertising manager for the Mis­souri Pacific Lines, visited the Alum­ni Office several weeks ago. He was 
•with J. A. MacDonald, traffic repre­sentative of the Missouri Pacific in Detroit. Unfortunately, Traveling Salesman Armstrong wasn't present to greet his classmate. 
Elmer Layden, Notre Dame, Ind. James E. Armstrong, South -Bend, Ind. Tom Barry, Chicago, 111. 
C. L. Baumgnrtner, South Bond, Ind. William H. Braunsdorf. South Bend, Ind. 
F. C. Bunce, Laporte, Ind. Frank D. Celebrezze. Geveland. Ohio 
W. J. Cerney, Qeveland, Ohio 
G. J. Coty, South Bend, Ind. Ray DeCourcey, Rochelle, 111. Paul J. Dooley, Detroit, Mich. 
C. P. Hafcl, Springfield, III. Clarence W. Harding, South Bend, Ind. Gerald Holland, South Bend. Ind. William A. Krider, Cleveland, Ohio. George C. Laughlin, Chicago, 111. Edmund J. Luther, South Bend. Ind. James F. McNicholas, Chicago, 111. Don C. Miller, Cleveland, Ohio. Thomas F. O'Connor, Indianapolis, Ind. Edward F. O'Toole. Oak Park, III. John J. O'Toole, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
E. A. Polhaus, Detroit, Mich. 
A. J. Porta, South Bend, Ind. Leo J. Powers, Chicago, III. Daniel F. Sammon, Cleveland, Ohio. John W. Scallan, Chicago, 111. William B. Shechan, South Bend, Ind. George B. Sheehe, Detroit. Mich. Raymond J. Sohatski, S. Milwaukee, Wis. Frank Steele, Akron, Ohio. Henry C. Wurzer, Davenport, Iowa. 
1926 
Father O'Hara recently had a fine letter from Tony Roxas of Manila. Tony, with his brother, Eduardo, '33, is helping to carry on the extensive family business. Before Tony's let­ter had been answered he with his brother had called twice from Manila to inquire for Father O'Donnell. They talked on one occasion with Dean McCarthy and again with Fa­ther O'Hara. It is refreshing to real­ize that such fervent Notre Dame spirit resides on the opposite side of the globe. Their calls were the first ever to come in to South Bend from Manila. 
John Griffin, economist, cross coun­try x-unner and now attorney, is in the legal department of Cooper, Ka­naley & Co., Chicago brokerage house. (The Notre Dame Kanaleys, of course!) 
Joseph Bailey, Chicago, III. William K. Barr, Chalmers, Ind. James D. Bowen, Indianapolis, Ind. William R. Dooley. South Bend, Ind. Rex Enright, Athens, Ga. George A. Goepfrich. South Bend, Ind. 
J. Arthur Haley, South Bend. Ind. Charles P. Marguet, New Albany, Ind. Charles E. Mason, Indianapolis, Ind. Jerry McDermott, Chicago, 111. Jerry McGinlcy, Ogallala. Neb. George P. O'Day. Cleveland, Ohio Hanold J. Robertson, South Bend, Ind. James A. Ronan, Chicago, HI. Gilbert F. Schaefer. Detroit, Mich. Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, Syracuse, N, Y. 
1927 
Along with a notice of a change in his address James S. Brown sends word that he has Just started in a new position with the American Cyanamid Company, New York City, after being with the United States Rubber Ex­port Company since September, 1927. His new address is 102 West 93rd Street, New York City. 
Joseph M. Boland, Notre Dame, Ind. Herbert J. Braun, Aurora, 111. John P. Butler. Lakewood. Ohio Paul Butler, South Bend, Ind. Tom Byrne, Cleveland, Ohio 
J. Lou Conroy. Lipton, Ind. John "Rome** Dugan, Kansas City, Mo. Watts Eicher, Washington, D. C. Don Fitzgerald, Mundelcin, III. John J. Halpin, Chicago, 111. Richard Halpin, Chicago, 111. Herb Jones, South Bend, Ind. Raymond L. McQory, Chicago, HI. Edward J. McLaughlin, Chicago, 111. Vincent McNally, Philadelphia, Pa. John McNeills, Chicago, 111. 
J. Kenneth Qualley, South Bend, Ind. Wm. F. Roemer, Ph.D.. South Bend. Ind. Stephen Ronay, South Bend, Ind. Clarence J. Ruddy, Aurora, III. Al Smith. Laporte. Ind. Richard "Red** Smith, Madison, Wis. Ra>'mond Snyder, South Bend, Ind. James Vallely, Dubois, Pa. John J. Wallace, Calumet City, III. 
1928 
Connie Ochoa sends along the fol­lowing delightful account of his re­cent life: 
"Read in one of the past issues of the ALUMNUS, a statement by Bemie Conroy to the effect that "the fellows in N. Y. are wondering how Connie Ochoa is making out in Mexico," a pleasant little inquiry that filled me with no little joy. The above, and also the fact that, annual­ly, since I left the States I receive quite a few Christmas cards from many of my friends there, made me think (in spite of the now defunct technocracy, the much abused for­gotten man, the depression, the Five Year Plan in Russia and Sexennial Plan here in Mexico, the impending danger of a new war, and what have you) that this sickly world of ours is, after all, a heck of a nice place to live in. Believe me, Jim, that little . statement of Bemie's delighted me quite a bit; but this satisfaction was not of an egotistical nature, NO, it was bom at the bottom of my heart and sprang simply from a deep rooted feeling of gratitude towards those fellows who, notwithstanding the time since last I saw them, the fretful distance which separates us, and my own idiosyncrasies, some times do wonder how I am 'making out.' Because I like to appreciate real values and wish not to throw in­to oblivion friendships so well ce­mented, I have not hesitated to drop you these lines, hoping that through you I might possibly might be able 
to reach all those who knew me. 
"It has been so long since I heard from NOTRE DAJIE or vice versa, that I feel, with due apologies, obliged to say something about my­self in case some of my friends should wish to know whether I am lost or still at large. I resigned from the Nat'l. City Bank branch in Mex­ico on the request of my father who insisted that I should come to help him with the management of "La Purisima," one of his sugar planta­tions. The enclosed circular will show you how, about a year and a half ago, before Public Notary, I was given full power to act as 'Adminis­trator' of my father's affairs in this particular concern. Being that the eldest of my brothers is the General Manager of all of my father's enter­prises, because of legal technicali­ties, and in order not to have him lose his personality as Gen. Mgr., my status is that of his substitute, but in reality I am the one who is holding the baton because I am permanently located here in the plantation, where­as my brother Edward is living in Guadalajara in charge of dad's office there. 
"You may ask how come I changed from a banker to a sugar producer— 

Jttne, 1934. THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 293 
here is the answer: the terrible crisis the sugar industry has found itself submerged in. Up to 1930, when the sugar business was a brilliant one in this country, father could afford to pay fat salaries to technical mana­gers and engineers who wastefuUy managed to keep up the business be­cause of the high price of sugar; then came the depression, and with it, a readjustment of personnels to lower our production costs, and since I was the only one out of the family fold, I was convinced by dad to give up my job with City Bank. I accepted the job, not because of what I knew or did not know of sugar mills and plantations, but simply to help my fatiier out, who threatened to come and stay here himself if I refused to comply with his wishes; being that dad is too old, and that the depression and the then possible collapse of the sugar industry in Mexico had worked havoc with his nerves, I had to give in, but that I did somewhat reluc­tantly for I was also giving up a mode of life I was then used to, with its bright lights and merry making. 
Most sincerely yours, 
Conrad M. Ochoa." 

Joe Griffin is in Milwaukee where he is manager of the Milwaukee Claim Division of the Century In­demnity Company, 210 East Michigan Street. FoUo^ving his graduation from Notre Dame the former track captain and heart breaker took law in Chi­cago and, of course, he's putting his legal training to good use now. 
William F. Armin. South Bend. Ind. 
J. W. Bochnin;r. Indianapolis, Ind. Andrew J. Boyle, Notre Dame. Ind. Jolin E. Brcnnan, Kenosha, Wis. 
F. EuKcne Brown. Ellchart, Ind. Paul Brust. Slilwaukee, Wis. Louis F. Buckley. South Bend. Ind. David L. Campbell. South Bend, Ind. James T. Canizaro, Chicago, III, George Coury, McCurtain, Okla. Frank Creadon, Riverside, III. WilUam F. Cronin, New York City William H, Downey. Niles, Alich. Vincent P. Ducey, Grand Rapids, Mich. Robert Grant. South Bend, Ind. James E, Gray, Oak Park, 111. Gus Jenkins. Buftalo, N. Y. William N. Konop. Indianapolis, Ind. Ray Lawler, Chicago, III. Joseph J. Madden. Fort Wayne, Ind. Edmund F. McClarnon. Detroit, Mich. Edward P. McGuire. Chicago, III. Joseph S. Morrissey, Cincinnati. Ohio. Ra>*mond H. Mulligan. Chicago. III. Richard L. Phelan. Chicago. HI. Ronald E. Rich. South Bend. Ind. Ernest Rieder, Detroit, Mich, Charles Riley, Indianapolis, Ind. Harold Ruppel, Cleveland. Ohio George A. Scheuer, South Bend, Ind. David N. Smith, Chicago, III. Cyprian A. Sporl. New Orleans, La. Ellas G. Thomas, Lorain, Ohio Patrick Varraveto, Chicago, III. Tom Walsh. Macon, III. Ray A. Worden, South Bei;d, Ind. Steve Wozniak, Akron, Ohio 
1929 
Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C.. Notre Dame Paul C. Bartholomew, South Bend, Ind. GeorKe N. Bcamer, South Bend,. Ind. Frank J. Belting, Qeveland, Ohio Paul A. Bertsch, Akron, Ohio John Brown, Racine, Wis. Bill Brown, Milwaukee, Wis. Francis J. Buckley, Canonsburpr, Pa. Charles H. Buschemeyer, Louisville, Ky. Vincent Carney. Rochelle, III. Laurence A. Carton. Jr., Red Bank, N. J. Ross P. Celtalio, ChicaRO. 111. Sam A. Colarusso, Newark, N. J. William F. Cronin, Dayton, Ohio James iSr. Curry, New York City 
O. D. Dausman, Indianapolis, Ind. Frank Doan. Akron, Ohio William J. Donelan. Ottumwa. Iowa John W. Dorjran. Chicago, III. Sylvester Dougherty, SteubenvUle, Ohio AVillard C. Fortier, South Bend. lid. Carl Frederick, South Bend, Ind. 
E. C. Garrity. Jr., ChicaRO. HI. John M. Giltinon. Chicago, 111. John M. Ginz, South Bend. Ind. Jule&- Grossman, South Bend. Ind. Gaylord P. Haas, Cleveland. Ohio Clarence T. Hans, Chicago, HI. Henry Hasley, Fort Wayne, Ind. Fred J. Haw. Chicaso, 111. Dr. Philip C. HemminB, Elffin. HI. Frank G. Heupel, Auburn, III. John V. Hinkel. New York City Rev. Norbert C. Hoft (LL.D.), Notre Dame Claude Horning, Akron. Ohio Everett Jewell, Peru, Ind. Francis Jones, South Bend. Ind. 
S. J. Kalmar, South Bend, Ind. Kenneth J. Konop, Indianapolis, Ind. Joseph H. Kraker. Akron, Ohio William H. Krieg, Indianapolis, Ind. Russell C. Kuchl. South Bend, Ind. Joseph Laubcr, South Bend. Ind. Tom S. Lawless, Freeport, 111. Joseph V. Lenihan, New York City John J. Lyons. Chicatro ,111. George McDonnell, Keansbury, N. J., Hugh J. McManigal, Cleveland, Ohio Joseph P. McNamara, Indianapolis. Ind. Thomas M. McNichoIas, Notre Dame Peter J. Morgan, Trenton. N. J. 
J. H. Nash. Jr.. Chicago, III. John R. Nash. Chicago, III. Louis F. Niezer, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
J. C. O'Connor, New York City William S. O'Connor, Indianapolis, Ind. Bernard O'Neill, South Bend. Ind. Don Plunkett. Notre Dame Gerald E. Roach, Grand Rapids, Mich. William Russell. Canonsburg, Pa. Charles Schlleckert, Chicago, HI. 
R. J. Schulze. Chicago, II). 
L. F. Stauder, Witt. III. Joseph S. Sullivan. Chicago. III. Dr. James W. Tobin. Elgin. III. Frctl Wagner, Tiffin, Ohio Willard F. Wagner, South Bend, Ind. Philip A. Walsh, Butler. Pa. Joseph E. \VhaIen. Council Bluffs, Iowa Richard Zimmerly, South Bend. Ind. 
1930 
The Class of 1930 was unusually honored when on May 26 two of its members, Eev. Lawrence Peter Wen­iger and Rev. William Edmund Burchill, were ordained to the priest­hood in St. Peter's Cathedral, Scran­ton, Pennsylvania. Both of them celebrated their first solemn Masses on the following day, Sunday, May 27,—Larry in Honesdale, Pennsyl­vania, and Bill in Towanda, Pennsyl­vania. No word has come to the Alumni Office as to the assignments of the two '30 men. The Class will nevertheless follow them with fervent prayers and best wishes. 
Joseph L. Apodaca. South Bend, Ind. Martin Brill, Philadelphia, Pa. Thomas Conley, Notre Dame. Ind. Louis G. Chapleau, South Bend. Ind. William Craddick, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. Harold E. Duke, Fort Wayne; Ind. Louis Hasley, South Bend, Ind. Jerome P. Holland. Chicago, 111. Henry T. Horka, Benton Harbor, Mich. James Irwin. BuHalo. N. Y. Harold Jennings, South Bend. Ind. Robert C. Kelly. Euclid. Ohio. Walter M. Langford, South Bend, Ind. Charles F. Lennon. Joliet, III. Edward Meredith, South Bend. Ind. Charles G. Morrison, Cleveland. Ohio. Richard R. OTooIe, Pittsburgh, Pa. John T. Rocap, Indianapolis, Ind. 
R. D. Sanduskcy, Elkhart, Ind. Charles Schwartz, Naperville, 111. 
R. Floyd Searer. South Bend, Ind. 
A. J. Shipacasse, Cleveland, Ohio Charkles T. Smallwood, Chicago, III. Ted Twomey. Lexington. Ky. Karl R. Weigand, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1931 
John P. Anderson, Jr., South Bend. Ind. Austin J. Barlow, Chicago, HI. Fran Beaupre. Detroit, Mich. John E. Bergan. South Bend, Ind. Austin Boyle, New Orleans, La. Richard J. Brecn, Chicago, IlL John Carton, Red Bank, N. J. William B. Chawgo, Aurora, III. Ray F. Collins, Chicago. IH. Ed. A. Coomes, Notre Dame, Ind. Francis J. D'Hulhalla. Stamford, Conn. 
J. R. Donlan, Oak Park. HI. Clarence Durbin, Warsaw. Ind. Dan Egan, Chicago, III. 
L. B. Garland. LaGrange, 111. Joseph Gavin, Cleveland, Ohio. Matthew C. Garrigan, Brooklyn, N. Y. Mike Halligan, Detroit. Mich. 
L. N. Halter. Akron, Ohio. 
M. L. Houlahan, North Agwam, Mass. Philip Konop. Louisville, Ky. John M. Mahoney, Chicago. HI. Albert J. Maloney. Chicago, III. John J. Maloney. Indianapolis, Ind, Charles J. Manntx. Washington, D. C. Louis J. Marger. South Bend. Ind. 
R. M. Marshall. Indianapolis. Ind. Robert McMichaels, St. Louts. Mo. Larry Moller. Quincy, HI. Myron Murphy. Rock Island. 111. Edward J. Murray. Notre Dame, Ind. Tom Oakes, Chicago, HI. Richard J. O'Donnell, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Y. T. Oester. Rockford, III. Robert L. Pendergast, Chicago, HI. Vincent Ponic, Chicago. HI. James C. Rich, Oak Park, HI. Frank Seward. Elyria. Ohio. John G. Shively, South Bend. Ind. George M. Spalding. Bardstown, Ky. Alfred Stepan, Chicago, 111. Dan J. Sullivan, Rochelle, III. Wilbert L. Terr«, Chicagow III. Forrest R. West, South Bend, Ind. Larry Wood. Detroit, Mich. John H. Zuber. Saginaw. Mich. 

294 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS June, 19SJf 
PfiANCIS (SWEDE) SCHROE­DER -vrrites from St. Paul that DEN­NY DALY is practicing law there as a member of the firm of Swedeen & Daly -with offices in the Pioneer Building. Swede is also practicing law with headquarters in the New York Building in St. Paul. 
Prayers were recently requested on the Religious Bulletin for VINCE STAGE who was ill. 
News from Columbus, Ohio indi­cates that the '28 men are doing well in the Capital Citj'. BERNIE ZIP­PERER has been appointed attorney in the Securities Department of the State. FRANK STROHM is in the Tax Division and JOHN FONTANA is in the Legal Department of the State Industrial Commission. John, by the way, was maried last October at Notre Dame to Mary Morrow of Chicago. 
DR. PAUL TOBIN is taking spe­cial medical work at the Los Angeles General hospital, Los Angeles, Calif. 
GEORGE J. McLINEY of Kansas City spent a few hours with your Class Secretary getting re-acquainted 
•with Notre Dame after being away since '28. George is in the bond business. He mentioned that he sees JOE O'DOWD, who is in the restau­rant business in Kansas Citv and HENRY MASSJVL4N who is in Kan­sas City in the construction business. 
Louis Buckley. 
1932 
William B. Murray, is making use of his probationarj- work training as director of the Boy Welfare depart­ment of the Diocesan Bureau of So­cial Service, Hartford, Conn. 
AVllIiam P. Brown, Malone, N. Y. Ralph I . Calctri, South Bend, Ind. Eichard G. Cannon, Elgin, III. Paul D. Clark, Florence. N. Y. Edward DeBartoIa, Youngstown, Ohio. Charles J, Doerr, Chicago, 111. 
J. H. Dubbs, Mcndota, 111. Oliver F. Field. Springfield, III. Thomas J. Gately, New York City. X-ouis R. Gentili, Summit, III. Emmet Gorman, Chicago, III. John A. Hamilton, South Bend, Ind. Noble F. Harbaugh, South Bend, Ind. George F. Hennion, South Bend, Ind. 

H. C. Johnson, Akron, Ohio. Joseph P. Judge, Di^on, III. Harry Kilburger, Lancaster, Ohio Donald B. Killian, Canton, Ohio. Walter A. Eiolbasa, Chicago, III. Gerald H. Klein, Akron, Ohio. Bob Kolb, Akron, Ohio. Kenneth V. Kreps, Chicago, 111, Harold Y. Lappin. Saginaw, Mich. John P. lAUghna, Detroit Mich. Robert Lazier, Rochelle, III. 
W. E. Maloy, Akron, Ohio. John R. Mathews, Chicago, 111. 
A. P . McEachem, Minneapolis. Minn. Charles L. McKevitt, Ironwood, Mich. Howard A. Miller, Lakewood, Ohio, 

Gabe Moran, Youngstown, Ohio. Edward. O'Malley, Notre Dame, Ind. ^Villiam C. Otto, South Bend, Ind. 
P. D. Partlan, Chicago, III. Charles Petretic, Youngstown, Ohio. Joseph Petritz, Notre Dame, Ind. \Vllliani J. Redmond, Jolict. III. ^NHlliam Kj-an, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. John M. Scanlan, Indianapolis. Ind. Joe Shecketski, Shady^de, Ohio. Charles Spangenberg, Elmhurst, III. Harry Stegman, Notre Dame, Ind. 
M. P. Torborg, Huntington, Ind. Eugene Vallely, DuBois, Pa. Charles Weiss, South Bend, Ind. 
1933 
E. L. Ackerman. Detroit, Mich. LawTence H. Baldin^er, Notre Dame. Ind. Joseph W. Bean, South Bend. Ind. James J. Boyle, Hubbard, Ohio. Paul F. Boehm, South Bend, Ind. '\MlHam M. Cannon, South Bend, Ind. 
•\ViIIiam
 Carroll, Chicago, III. Ben J. Cashman, South Bend, Ind. Charles A- Conley, ConnersviIIe, Ind. Michael Coyle, Detroit, Mich. Richard Carton, Red Bank, N. J. Anthony ^V. Crowley, Rockford, 111. James P. Danehy, Chicago, III. 

H.
 M. DeVoss, South Bend, Ind. Maurice J, DeWald, Fort "Wayne, Ind. 


William Donahue, Har\'ey, 111. 
Mike Eagan, Chicago, 111. 
Charles J. Fiss, Oshkosh, Wis. Joseph Fitzpatrick, South Bend, Ind. Robert J. Fitzsimmoris, Benton Harbor, Mich. John J. Galla, Chicago. 111. John F. Gill, Minot. No. Dak. Charles F. Hafron, South Bend, Ind. Elmer Harkabus, Bridgeport, Conn. 
F. Nordhoff Hoftmann, Pittsburgh, Pa. Paul Host, Chicago. 111. Thomas A. Hughen, Beaumont. Texas. John J. Hurley, New York City. William J. Kennedy, New Hampton, Iowa. Michael J. Lahey, Laporte, Ind. M^iliam J. Martersteck, Detroit, Mich. Sherman Minsky, Lima, Ohio. Martin C. Moran, Nekoma, Kansas. 
H. Myer^ Lima, Ohio. 
P. F. O'Neil. Rochelle. 111. Phidell Osborne, Notre Dame, Ind. John Poj-nton. Chicago, III. S/lvester Rapier, Owensboro, Ky. 
S. Jerome Roach. Grand Rapids. Mich. 
v.
 J. Schaeffner. Brooklyn, N. Y. Marchy Schwartz, Chicago. 111. Paul A. Sartoretto, Rock Springs, Wyo. 

W.
 Lawrence Sexton, Indianapolis. Ind. Russell E. Torrell, Perth Amboy, N. J. Edward D. Troy, Pittsburgh, Pa. Feliks L. Wiatrowski, South Bend. Ind. Tighe Woods. Chicago. 111. 



CORRESPONDENCE RECALLS OLD DAYS 
Mr. N. J. Nealis, 150 Schenck Ave­nue, BrookljTi, a student at Notre Dame in 1885-86, has recently car­ried on with Father John F. O'Hara a very interesting and beautiful cor­respondence regal-ding the older days. The ALUMNUS is enabled to print here part of one of Mr. Nealis' fas­cinating letters: 
"So it seems that the poor old "H. L. G." [Hoynes Light Guards] like so many other familiar memories has long since passed into history. I can still recall that very hot day when the whole contingent, both Juniors and Seniors in full military regalia, turned out to escort the re­mains of Dr. Brownson to the Col­lege where they were placed in a crypt beneath the high altar of the church. The shooting iron we used to use was the old Springfield Rifle. No easy load to carry, especially for the younger members of the outfit! 
"Every Sunday morning about nine we had to line up along the walk in front of the main building to have our shoes inspected. Any fellow whose shine did not seem to have the required luster was promptly told about it and warned not to have it happen again. 
"Our refectory in those days was on the ground floor of the main build­ing. We used to sit at round tables —^about ten students at each table— which were usually presided over by the different Brothers. The one I was at was in charge of Brother Anselm. 
Every Saturday at supper time there would be a delicious cake placed at whichever table could show the cleanest table cloth at the end of the week. As far as I can recall our table never succeeded in getting that cake; and as I look back over the years I still feel that Brother Anselm was right when he used to say he had the worst bunch of 'slobs' in the whole refectory at his table." 
Mr. Nealis enclosed with one of his own letters a letter from his sister in which she recounted an inspiring incident on the occasion of one of her visits to Notre Dame. The paragraph with regard to this incident follows: 
"I remember the winter of 1886 (or 1887?) when father took Mary and me to Aasit you all at the Univer­sity, and how kind the saintly found­er. Father Sorin, was to the two 'little Canadian girls.' We went with him when he showed father all over the grounds and various build­ings. Mary was so cold, poor dar­ling, that she cried with the pain in her freezing feet. Father Sorin took us to his own room, got a basin of water, Icnelt on the floor and insisted on bathing the aching feet till all the pain had gone. Papa and I just watched! I did not know then what the word 'humility' was, but when I think of that dear, venerable priest, with the long white beard, and recall that incident, which I took then as a matter of course, I see why the won­derful work of Notre Dame Univer­sity has been so blessed by God." 

Annual Laymen's Retreat 
The AdminisiraUon Building 

To All Notre Dame Clubs: 
Heretofore we have laid no stress on publicizing the Laymen's Eetreat at Notre Dame—^the largest single Eetreat in the world, and this because we felt the traditional loyalty of all Notre Dame men to Alumni aifairs would cause an ovei-flow in this actiwty, thus taxing the facilities of the University in handling the throng of over a thousand men who come here each ^August for the Reti'eat. We are happy, however, to inform you that recent aiTangements will now permit of splendid accommodations for all who come for the Retreat. 
Accordingly, the Council of Local Clubs of the Alumni Association has directed that all Notre Dame Clubs be informed of the opportunity for members to make their annual Eetreat within the bosom of their Alma Mater; and that members be invited, particularly this year, to spend SIXTY GOLDEN HOUES amid familiar scenes. 
The Sixteenth Annual Retreat opens Thursday evening, August 2nd, at 8 o'clock (Central Standard Time) and closes Sunday morning, August 5th, 1934, in time for early departure for home. Supper ^vill be served at 6 o'clock Thursday evening. Trj' to be present. 
To cover the expense of eight "Notre Dame" meals, room, service and other features provided by the University, the modest stipend of only Ten Dollars is required. Transportation costs can be greatly reduced by parties clubbing together in autos. 
For reservation of rooms or other information, communicate with 
Rev. Thomas Kearney, C. S. C, Director Lajonen's Retreats, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

Ij yoK will attend "A Century of Progress," stop off going or returning to make your Retreat at TS{otre 'Dame. : : 
Sacred Heart Church 
?f ^? 
August 2nd-5th, 1934 
Si. JoscpKi LaJ^e 










