The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 29, No. 3, May-June, 1951 


'^&mi^^ 
[•^^f^HSi 

^' 5^1^ ^^ 

Universal Notre Dame Night around the v/orld — Rome, Chicago, Indianapolis. 
<^^s^^%^


^Wj^^^ "" 

S^^^S|^^^@^^^S|^ B^^^^^^ l 



^^^^55^^ •.-*' 
H 

ryj^H'^^M •s 
^^^®i^^^^^ 
•^1 
1 l,hl J 
1^ 
l-li 

Xkc Notre Dame Alumnus 
VoL 29 No. 3 May-Tune. 1951 
lames E. Aimstiong, '25, Editor John P. Bums. '34, Managing Editor John N. CacUey. Jr., '37, Associate Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dome, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS  
LEO B. WARD, '20R. CoNROY ScoGGiNS, '24WILLIAM J. SHERRY, '21WILLIAM B. JONES, '28EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16  ~  Monorary President President  J'irrf Vice-President Second Vice-President Third Vice-President  

DIRECTORS TO 1952 

WiLLLAM J. SHERRY, '21 1001 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa 3, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 7/02 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. 
R. CoNROY SCOGGINS, '24 480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 2 East Mill Dr., Great Neck, N. Y. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 

HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 1840 S. Kilbourne, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22...:. 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
DIRECTORS TO 1954 

JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 .49 Race St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio JOHN H. NEESON, JR., '35 37 Highland Ave., Cnywyd, Pa. WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10 .2765 N.W. Nicolai St., Portland, Ore. LUTHER M . SWYGERT, '27 6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Ind. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 J)irector and Secretary 
AN EXPLANATION TO THE '34 CLASS Ed Mansfield's 1934 Class Notes, normally ap­'pt^ring Jn; the Class Section of the Alumnus, are 
b^ing mailed from the Alumni Office as a Class News 
Letter, to the'34 class members. 

-cfln justice to Ed Mansfield—one of the hardest workers in the Class Secretaries' Guild, incidentally —it should be pointed out that his own diligence-and industry helped prompt the decision to lift the '34 news. The comjielling reason, however, was the restrictions on paper use imposed by the quickening mobilization and demands for more of everything. 
Ironically, Ed Mansfield is a sales supervisor for a very large paper manufacturer, making his living frying to talk customers out of using more paper than he can deliver. 
1951 






Class Reunions 
/u»e 8, 9,10 
Classes Returning and Halls 
1901, '06, '11, '16—Breen-Phiilips •21—Breen-Phillips '26—Cavanaugh '31—Farley 
•36 " '41—Zohm 
•46 

Friday, June 8 

(all times Central Daylight Saving) 
General Registration Farley Hall Lobby Class Registration in class halls Golf Tournament, Class Reunion Dinners, Smokers 

Saturday, June 9 
Class Masses, Pictures, Elections 

More Golf 

President's noon luncheon for 25-year class Campus and football movies in Washington Hall, 2-3:30 p. m. Moot Court Finals; 2:30 p. m., and Lav/ Cocktail Party, Low Building, 4-6 p. m. Annual Alumni Banquet, 6 p. m., dining hall—^The 
Alumni Secretary, toastmaster Principal address, by the University President Awarding of Golf Prizes—^Trainer Hugh Burns Presentation of awards to members of 50-Year Club Reports of Alumni Board Officers 

Sunday, June 10 
10:00 a. m., low Mass, sermon by Father Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Sacred Heart Church 

General Information 
Cafeteria Hours: 7-9:30 a. m. (Sunday, 8-9 a. m.); 11 a. m.-l:30 p. m.; 5-7 p. m. 
Western Union — Incoming messages delivered from South Bend 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




ame Alumms 
Commencement, Reunions, Alumni Board Meeting, Class Secretaries Features for June 
The University's 106th Commencement Exercises will be held June 3, with Fran­cis X. Matthews, Secretary of the Navy as principal speaker. 
Thursday following Commencement Day, Alumni Association Class Secreta­ries will gather for a two-day confer­ence, with business sessions in the Law Auditorium. The Secretaries' Confer­ence, approved at last January's Alum­ni Board Meeting will attempt to coor­dinate the work of secretaries more closely, with the ultimate aim of gain­ing 100% Alumni participation in 1951 contributions to the University. 
Simultaneous with the Secretaries' Conference, the Alumni Board will hold its annual June meeting. Members of the Board will also participate in the Conference. 
Missing from this session of the Board will be John Q. Adams, of Montclair, New Jersey, who resigned in March due to the pressure of business and the necessity for making more of his time available to the Defense Department. Mr. Adams, an executive in the cold storage business explained he left the Alumni Board with deepest regret and that he. would devote as much of his limited time as possible to Alumni and Foundation activities. 
Under Alumni Association by-laws, his successor, to serve imtil January, 1953, will be elected at next January's board elections. 
Class Reunions cover three days, June 8, 9, 10. 
Beginning with the Fifty Year Club, whose new members will be inducted at the annual Alumni Banquet, Saturday night, Jrae 9, classes of '06, '11, '16, '21, '26, '31, 36, '41, and '46 \vill gather in four of the new halls—Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh and Zahm. 
Closing the reunions (program on page 2, opposite) will be a Mass in Sacred Heart Church, with a sermon for the Alumni by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C. s. C, Executive Vice-Pres­ident of the University. 
On June 3, 725 candidates will receive degrees in traditional exercises in the stadium. 
Besides Secretary Matthews, four em­inent Americans will receive honorary 
LL.D.
 degrrees. They are Most Rev. Leo 

A.
 Pursley, Auxiliary Bishop of Fort Wayne, Indiana; C. Roy McCanna, 


Chairman .of the Board of the Barling­
ton, Wis., Bank; Rev. Gilbert V. F. 
Hartke, O.P., Head of the Department 
of Speech at Catholic University of 
America and Jacques Maritain, Visiting 

Professor of Philosophy, Princeton Uni­' versity. 
Secretary Matthews was appointed to 
his cabinet post in 1949 and is a former 
director of the U. S. Chamber of Com­
merce. In World War II he was active 
in U. S. Armed Forces relief. 
Bishop Pursley, appointed to his pres­
ent post July 22, 1950, is a native of 
Indiana and was previously pastor of St. 
John the Baptist church. Fort Wayne. 
He was ordained June 11, 1927, and 
served as chaplain to Catholic students 
at Purdue University for ten years. 
Mr. McCanna, the father of two Notre 
Dame Alumni, Charles, '40, and Dr. 
Philip, '41, is a member of the Univer­
sity. Board of Lay Trustees and of the 
Board of Governors of the Catholic Ex­
tension Society. Father Hartke, founder 

of the Speech and Drama Department at 
Catholic U., has taken seven productions 

into the professional theatre, including 
"Touch and Go," "Song of Bemadette" 
and "Lute Song." (turn to next page) 

SEC MATTHEWS Mr. McCANNA BISHOP PURSLEY DR. MARITAIN FR. HARTKE 
May-June, 1951 


E. M. Morris—Alumnus Trustee, Benefactor Dies 
Donor of Morris Inn Had Been III For Over a Year 
Ernest M. Morris, LL.B. '06, died May 3, in Memorial Hospital, South Bend. He was 68. 
A member of the University Board of Lay Trustees and its former chairman, donor of the Morris Inn and a generous contributor to numerous charities, Mr. Morris had been in ill health for over a year. On April 24 he entered Memo­rial Hospital when a chronic illness sud­denly became serious. 
Following his graduation from the University he practised law in South Bend and in 1917 formed the Associates Investment company. He was chairman of the board at his death. Associates, under his guidance became the third largest auto finance company in the country. 
Mr. Morris was bom in a log house in Marshall County, Indiana, 25 miles from South Bend. His early education was gained in country schools and at Valparaiso University. 
After obtaining his law degree at the University he interested himself in Ee­publican politics and at one time was Indiana national committeeman. He never ran for public office. 
During the depression years he as­sumed the presidency of a South Bend bank, the First National Bank and Union Trust Company, reorganized it and paid off depositors of Union Trust 100%. At the time he was not a stock­
(Contmued from page 3) 

Dr. Maritain, French philosopher and theologian and former ambassador to the Vatican is widely known as an au­thority on the teachings of St. Thomas Aquinas and is presently directing grad­uate work in the field of Christian phi­losophy. He is the author of numerous philosophical works. 
Bishop Pursley will give the baccalau­reate sermon on Sunday, June 3, at a Solemn Pontifical Mass in the stadium at 9 a. m. At the afternoon commence­ment exercises the principal address will be made by Secretary Matthews. 
holder in either institution, and he en­gineered the liquidation of Union Trust's assets without accepting a cent of remu­neration. 
His service to civic projects and con­tributions to private charities were equally generous and, except for public leadership of projects like the Communi­ty Chest for the most part unknown publicly. 
The Coquillard Club was reorganized by Mr. Morris, and he financed the In­diana Club when it merged with several 
MR. MORRIS 

other private groups in South Bend. With Mrs. Morris he founded and en­dowed the E. M. Morris School for Crippled Children, later presenting it to the South Bend Board'of Education. 
Mr. Morris became concerned with medical research and this year had set up the Morris Chemical Research Foun­dation in the South Bend Medical Labo­ratory. His benefaction provided a room in a new wing of the laboratory, which will afford facilities for the treatment and cure of disease. 
He was a quiet financial source for youth camps and church benefits in South Bend. 
He actively supported the formation of the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and with Mrs. Morris presented the South Bend Art Association with num­erous paintings by Indiana artists. Last year he organized the Morris Founda­tion, with the purpose of aiding civic enterprises. 
Funeral services were held from the First Presbyterian Church in South Bend, on May 6. Surviving Mr. Morris are, in addition to Mrs. Morris, two daughters, Mrs. Bobert L. Oare, of South Bend and Mrs. Oliver Carmichael of New York City, and five grandchil­dren. 
LOYAL ALUMNUS 
The President of the Universi­ty, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., upon learning of Mr. Morris' death, said, "In the pass­ing of Ernest M. Morris, the Uni­versity has lost an alumnus whose loyalty and generosity wnll ever be an example to all who love Notre Dame. His forceful, bril­liant leadership in the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, and his wise, unselfish counsel to succes­sive adirinistrators of the Univer­sity for many years have fur­thered vitally the plans and growth of Notre Dame. The new Morris Inn will ever be a monu­ment on the campus to his inval­uable service and a memorial for generations to come of d gifted and devoted son who wore his Alma Mater's monogram deeply nnpiinted en his heart." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The St. Joe Valley Alumni Club's annual Old Timers' Game drew nearly 20,000 fans May 12 into the Stadium to watch the Varsity knock off 47 points while the Old Timers scored 20. 
On the 20-point side were enough All-American names to fill a washtub with 
Billy Gay Carries 

clippings, but apparently there weren't 
quite enough. Emil Sitko, Jerry 
Groom, Bob Williams, Bill Wightkin, 
George Strohmeyer, Walt Grothaus, etc. 
Billy Gay, who has signed with the 

Chicago Cardinals, did some of his best 
running and Bob Williams, now sig^ned 
with the Chicago Bears, was in there 
pitching as only Williams can. 
Varsity quarterback John Mazur did 

as little passing as possible, with 
Freshman John Lattner providing three 
touchdowns at ground level. Lattner 
played defensive safety as well. 
The game is played annually for the 

benefit of the St. Joe Valley Scholar­
ship fund. 
THE 1951 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

Sept. 29—Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 3—Detroit at Detroit (Night Game) Oct. 13—So. Methodist at Notre Dame Oct. 20—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 27—^Purdue at Notre Dame Nov. 3—^Navy at BiJtimorc Nov.. 10—^Mich. State at E. Lansing Nov. 17—N. Carolma at Chapel Hill Nov. 24—Iowa at Notre Dame 
Dec. I—S. California at Los Angeles 
1951 Universal ND Night 
Universal Notre Dame Night, grow­ing in prestige and extent each year, saw larger gatherings and greater in­terest in 1951 than in any year since its inception. 
A television and radio coverage by WGN-Mutual, augrmented by appear­ances of University representatives told the nation the Notre Dame story. As in 1950, there was no central observa­tion. 
However, the observation extended overseas, from Peru to Rome and to Tokyo. 
Domestically, local alumni Clubs re­ported unprecedented turnouts. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, University President, appeared at Indianapolis. He is pictured on the cover wtih Mr. 
P. C. Reilly, Gov. Schricker of Indiana and Dr. Gatch of the Indiana U. Med­ical School. 
In Chicago, Father Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., Executive Vice-President, spoke at the Chicago Club's night in the Drake Hotel. With him, in the cover picture are Chicago President Al Stepan, Jr., Mrs. Clare Booth Luce and Col. Jack Lacey, retiring Club Presi­dent. 
May-June, 1951 
Rome rounded up all available alumni 
to welcome Dr. Charles Price, head of 
the University Chemistry Department. 
Beside him, to his right in the cover 
picture, is Rt. Rev. Msgr. William J. 
Doheny, C.S.C, a member of the Sacred 
Rota. 
Other UND night pictures are on 
pages 18 and 19. 
University representatives who ap­peared before local Clubs included Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., Religion Depart­ment head, at Schenectady; Athletic Trainer Hugh Bums, at Indianapolis and Dixon, 111.; Frank Leahy, at Phila­delphia; Law Dean Clarence E. Man-ion at Harrisburg and Philadelphia. 
Commerce Dean James McCarthy was in Detroit and Pittsburgh; LOBUND Director James Reyniers, Houston; John Cackley, Notre Dame Foundation, was in Boston; Assistant Coach Bemie Crimmins, Youngstown, O.; Dr. Daniel 
C. O'Grady of the Philosophy Depart­ment, Grand Rapids. 
William Elsen, head of the Depart­ment of Speech, Milwaukee; Ray Dono­van, Director of Public Information, Appleton, Wis.; Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong, Monroe, Mich.; 
Assistant Alumni - Secretary John 
Bums, Utiea, N. Y.; Athletic Director 
Ed Krause, St. Joseph Valley. 
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, Vice-

President for Public Relations, Cincin­
nati; Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., 
Registrar, Michigan City, Ind., Memphis 
and New Orleans; Rev. Cornelius Las­
kowski, C.S.C., Rochester, N. Y. 
Rev. William Botznm, C.S.C, was in 

Akron; Assistant Commerce Dean Ed 
Smith in Fort Wayne; Sports Publicist ­
Charles Callahan in Gary, Ind., and 
Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C., director of 
the Bureau of Economic Research, in 
Canton, O. 
Brothers to South America 

The Brothers of Holy Cross win ex­
tend their work to Brazil next Septem­
ber when four of them will conduct 
a high school known as Ginasio Dom 
Amando in Santarem, Brazil. 
Arrangements were completed re­
cently by Bishop Floriano Loewanau, 
O.F.M., of Santarem, and Brother 
Ephrem O'Dwyer, C.S.C., Provincial Su­
perior of the Brothers. 
Brother Richard Grejczyk, C.S.C., has been named superior of the group who will take over the high school. He has 27 years of experience in teaching and organization work. He has served as superior and principal of the Cathedral High School in Indianapolis and the Msgr. Coyle High School in Taunton, Mass. 
He will be assisted by Brothers C!en­ard Greene, C.S.C., Paul Schaefer, C.3.C., and James Walter. 
Prof. Sheehan Honored 
Professor John H. Sheehan, Head of 

the Department of Economics, was hon­
ored Monday, May 21, by the Mai^et­
men's Association of the Port of New 
York at a luncheon in New York City. 
Professor Sheehan, former chairman of the employer-employee relations com­sion of the Order of Railway Clerks, mittee of the New York express divi­was given a citation at the luncheon for his "outstanding work in the field of government-business relations." The Notre Dame educator has served as an arbiter in labor-manag:ement disputes since the middle of World War 11. 
Occasion of the labor-management luncheon of the Marketmen's Associia­tion is the commemoration of the an­niversaries of the great Social Encyc­licals—the 60th anniversary otRentm. Novarum and the 20th anniversary of Quadragesimo Anno. Prof essor Sheehan has made it a practice during his teach­ing career at Notre Dame to grive his students a complete analysis of these Encyclicals as psft of their economics courses. 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy Gift of $673,533 Assures Completion of Fine Arts Building 
Staff Project Director John Cacldcy, '38 of the University Foundation helped Boston obser\'e Universal Night. He is pictured (center) as outgoing Boston President Jack Nye Duffey, '38 presents Joseph Saunders his "Man of the Year" Scroll. Saunders is Foundation Governor for Alassachusetts. 
ERR.\T.\ 
Rev. .Kemdt Healy, C.S.C, and Prof. Frank Horan have properly pointed out that their teaching ten­ures began in 1921 (the Editor should remember Father Healy's de­but, having enjoyed Shakespeare and Stephen Leacock in his first class). The respective 1931 and 1923 errors were partly tributes to their clinging youth and partly that, like the poor, such errors are always with printing. We still have the wistful hope that the significance of the storj-—the magnificent core of 32 professors who have contributed an aggregate 800 teaching years to Notre Dame—was as evident as the regrettable date dev­iations. 
Memorial to Don Currie, '44 

A memorial trophy honoring Don Currie, '44, an outstanding half-miler on the 1943 track teairi, has been inaug­urated by Dick Palma, a classmate of Don. 
Currie was killed in action in Italy, June 21, 1944, while in action with U.S. paratroopers. 
Palma asked that the award bs named the Don Currie Memorial Trophy, and that it be presented annually to the trackman showing the most improve­ment during the season. Track Coach Alee Wilson will nanie the recipient. 
I. A. O'Shaughnessy, of St. Paul, Minn., who last year gave the Universi­ty ?1,500,000 for a new Liberal and Fine Arts Building, has g^ven Notre Dame an additional §673,533 to complete the building fund, Eev. John J. Cava­naugh, c. s. c , announced this week. 
Father Cavanaugh made the an­nouncement at the Spring meeting of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. Mr. O'Shaughnessy currently is Presi­dent of the Notre Dame trustees. 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy's latest benefac­tion, which brings his total gift for the Liberal and Fine Arts Building to $2,173,533, was made after the Uni­versity was unable, because of the sud­den vastly-increased building costs, to negotiate a conti-act to construct the O'Shaughnessy building for the pro­posed cost of §1,500,000 and at the same time maintain the original design of the building. The design called for the hous­ing of the Liberal Arts, the Fine Arts and the Art Galleries of the University. 
Notre Dame, therefore, had considered the possibility of building only the Lib­eral Arts section of the building at this time, and of postponing the other sec­tions of the building until a later date. Mr. O'Shaughnessy, however, was so im­pressed by the real need of the building at Notre Dame and of the great value of having the units together, that he decided to supplement his original gift so that the completed building as orig:inally planned would be possible now. 
The contract was awarded to the low­est bidder, the McGough Construction Company, of St. Paul, Minn. Architect for the O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building is Elerbee and Company, also of St. Paul. 
It is hoped that construction of the new building can be started at once. 
Father Cavanaugh, in acknowledging Mr. O'Shaughnessy's latest gift, said: "Never in the history of the University of Notre Dame has such a gener­ous benefaction been made as the combined gifts of Mr. Shaughnessy. Mr. O'Shaughnessy, who has donated so un­selfishly of his time and effort on behalf of this University as a distinguished member of its Associate Board of Lay Trustees, will live in Notre Dame his­tory as one of the nation's truly great philanthropists and lovers of culture. The O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, when completed, will provide Notre Dame with one of the finest buildings of its kind on any col­lege or university campus. The Univer­sity will be ever grateful for Mr. O'Shaughnessy's generous support." 
New Jersey Club's Award to George Batt 
Father Hesburgh and Joe Abbott, Jersey club president with Gcoi^e K. Batt, New Jersey's Man of the Year. Batt is vice-president of the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

CULTURE VANISHING. SAYS FR. PHELAN Fulbright Scholarship to 
A clearer understanding and a deeper appreciation of the treasures inherited from the Christian past is necessary to restore vitality and power to Christian traditions, a distinguished gathering was told in New York by Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the Medieval Insti­tute of the University. 
Addressing a gathering of scholars at the Pierpont Morgan Library on "Medie­val Institute Day," which was under the patronage of His Eminence Francis Car­dinal Spellman, Archbishop of New York, Father Phelan said that "our cul­tural capital is well nigh exhausted." 
"Although the world at large, our country, too, has lost a great deal of that which gave vigor and strength to the legacy of Christian thought and life from the Middle Ages," he asserted "nevertheless, the cultural capital upon which we live is the spiritual and intel­lectual wealth of that inheritance, meas­ured through centuries of Catholic thinking and Catholic living. 
"But we have been living on our capi­tal for generations," he added. "Here in America lies the hope, the only hope, perhaps, of retrieving our losses." 
Father Phelan pointed out that the aim of the institute was to make a thorough study of the long tradition of Christian culture and to give its post­graduate students in a coui-se extending over five years a precise understanding 
Fr. McAvoy on Leave 

Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, c.S.C, Head of the Department of History at the University, is in Europe to pursue re­search under a grant from the Ameri­can Philosophical Society of Phila­delphia. 
Father McAvoy will conduct research during his three-month trip to Europe on the European background of Ameri­can Catholicism. He will pursue most of his research in French and Italian archives. 
Father McAvoy already has done con­siderabla work in the field of his most recent research project. He is the author of a book entitled "The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834," and also has written extensively on Americanism and the Catholic minority in the United States. 
While in Europe, Father McAvoy also will attend the Fifth Anglo-American Conference of Historians to be held July 9 to 14 at the University of London. 
Majr^Juhe, 1951 
of the thoughts that guided Christian culture in the Middle Ages and the mo­tivations of life in those days. 
Canon Aztrik L. Gabriel of the Insti­tute's faculty, who is now on leave as a Fellow of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, spoke of "Daily Life in a Parisian College in the Fourteenth Century." He dealt specifically with Ave Maria College, which was founded in 1336 for needy students. 
The address, which was illustrated by reproductions of miniatures from con­temporary manuscripts, disclosed the disciplines used to produce philosophers and theologians of integrity. The trials and triumphs of the students were wit­tily described by Canon Gabriel. 
The Paris so familiar to Thomas Aqui­nas, Peter Lombard and to other great names of the "Ville Lumiere" were re­called, by the speaker, often to the amusement of the distinguished au­dience. 
The meeting was greeted by Junius S. Morgan, chairman of the board of trus­tees of the Morgan Library, which was founded by his grandfather and contains one of the great collections of medieval material. Cardinal Spellman expressed his gratitude to Mr. Morgan and the library staff for the courtesies extended. 
The audience of 200 persons included Jacques Maritain, Fritz Kreisler and Pierre Guedenet, cultural attache of the French Embassy. 

F. X. Slade, Grad Student 
Francis X. Slade, a 24-year-old grad­uate student at the University, has been awarded a Fulbright Fellowship for study at the University of Louvain, Bel­gium. 
Slade, a philosophy major from Staunton, Virginia, will use the one-year gnrant to carry on an investigation of the relation between historical think­ing and philosophical thought in mod­em philosophy. He will study contem­porary French and German philosophers. 
The Fulbright Awards, which are made on the basis of careful-nationwide screening and competition, are offered each year by the U. S. government to help promote international understand­ing by the exchange of students between countries. The winners receive trans­portation to and from their selected place of study, full payment of tuition fees there, and a substantial cash allow­ance for subsistence. 
Slade is a veteran of two years serv­ice with the U. S. Army, and a former member of the Army of Occupation in Germany. After graduating from the Catholic University of America in June, 1950, he received a grant-in-aid for fur­ther study at Notre Dame. He expects to complete his studies for a Master of Arts degree at Notre Dame in Septem­ber and leave for Europe shortly there­after. Slade is also a member of the Na­tional Phi Beta Kappa honor fraternity. 
LOBUND'S Radiation Sickness Project 
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C. S. C, Dean of the University Graduate School, pointing out to members of the advisory council for science and engineering some features of the l^bund equipment for use in the new project. 
A Year of Unusual Loss 
Nine Holy Cross priests have died since Sept. 3, 1950. 
They were known mainly to earlier generations of Notre Dame students, as teachers, rectors, prefects, counsellors. Alany of them acquired colorful nick­names that passed to succeeding student generations but remained unmentioned in formal printed references. 
Father Charles J. Flynn, c.S.C, who died May 20 is not pictured. He was a longtime member of the Holy Cross Mission Band and for a time was chap­lain of Coyle High School in Taunton, Mass. 
Father John Ryan was head of the History Department at the University and rector of residence halls. 
Father William Bolger taught Eco­nomics and Political Science, and Father Lennartz was a pastor at St. 
Fr. Ryan Fr. Bolger 
Fr. Gallagan Fr. Scandlon 

Joseph's in South Bend. Father Sau­vage remained in Rome as Procurator-General of the Holy Cross Order for many years. 
Father Gallagan at one time taught Religion, and had been Prefect of Dis­cipline. Father Scandlon was vice-president of Portland University, Father Butler, a teacher of History and Ethics. Father McKeon taught Spanish. 
The mere listing of the former duties of these priests cannot describe or measure the loss to the Holy Cross Order which their passing occasions. Alumni returning for this and succeed­ing reunions, searching for familiar, long-remembered faces will need no stronger reminder of the continuing need for vocations. 
Ordinations this June of priests in the Holy Cross Order total eleven. 
Fr. Lennartz Fr. Sauvagc 
Fr. Butler Fr. McKeon 

Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, CS.C., Presi­dent of the University of Portland, address­ing tile Seattle Univeisal Notre Dame Night gathering. To his left are Most Rev. Bishop Connolly, of Seattle and Enunett Lenihan, '16. 
Seattle's University of Notre Dame Alumni Club entertained a university president as its Universal Night guest— Rev. Robert H. Sweeney; c. s. c. Presi­dent of Portland University. 
Father Sweeney, a member of the class of 1930, succeeded Very Rev. Meh­ling, C. S. C, in the Portland presidency when Father Mehling was named Pro­vincial of the Indiana Province last year. 

Sister-Scientist Dies 

Sister Mary Antonine, c. s. c, who helped Professor Jerome Green send the first wireless message in America, died April 14. 
She entered the Order in 1885 and 14 years later, on April 19, 1899, set up a wireless receiving apparatus at St. Mary's science laboratory. 
Sister Antonine had studied at Hunter College and at Catholic University. She was bom in New York CHty in 1866. 
INFORMATION, PLEASE! 
Dr. Jdin Scannell, head of the Miysical Education Department puts in a second call for help from Phy Ed. graduates to send him listings of any advanced studies they have com­pleted since graduation from the Univcisity. 
"Response to die request In the last Ahmmus," Doc Scannell states, "was laAer limited. We'd appreciate any co-opehuion our graduates in Fl^sical Edncatiaa can give us. We 
•ecd tke infonnation concerning dieir advanced ttodies and iegnts for conpletm of our records." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The theory and practice of the Gre­gorian chant will form the center of an academic program in the liturgy of the Catholic Church to be conducted from June 18 to August 10 by the Depart­ment of Religion at the University. 
Offered for both undergraduate and gfraduate students, the course will in­clude the history of the liturgy, meth­ods of choir instruction, the musical theory of the Gregorian Chant, and • actual choral practice. Graduate stu­dents may earn a Master's degree in Liturgy by completing four such summer sessions and writing a dis­sertation. 
S 

University OfFers Liturgy Program In Summer School Session 
Besides classroom lectures, research projects, and a seminar, the program will include the daily singing of a Missa Cantata by all of the Liturgy students. Canonical hours will also be recited or sung, and a Vigil Service will be held each Saturday night in preparation for the Sunday Mass. 
One workshop in the program will emphasize the approach and methods to be used in instructing boys and girls in the Gregorian Chant, Symbolic Drawing, and eurythmics. Discussion meetings will be used to study the re­sults of recent attempts to teach re­ligion through liturgy on the primary, high school, and college levels. 
Jock Henebry, the Air Force's youngest Brigadier-General (33) at Tokyo's Communion Communion Breakfast for the Council of Catholic Men. To his tight. Chaplain John A. Dunn and Kotara Tanaka, Chief Justice of the Japanese Supreme Court. To his left, 
F. X. O'Brien and Anthony Drahurd, President of the Council 

Golden Circle Club 
The Golden Circle Club of Notre 
Dame came into existence on Universal 
Notre Dame Night, April 2nd this year. 
Genial Joe Bach, '25 and current head 
coach of football at St. Bonavenaure 
University, is the president for the next 
year. John Maloney, '41 and St. Bona­
venture faculty member, is secretary-
treasurer. 
Twenty-five attended the organization­al meeting, a dinner affair which in­cluded wives. Next meeting, a picnic get-together at the Summer home of George Fitzgerald, is scheduled for Wednesday, June 6. Besides Maloney and Bach, prime movers in the formation of the club— believed to be the first of its kind for Notre Dame men in Southwestern New York and Northeastern Pennsylvania— were Kuss Jandoli, '40, and John Wor­den, '28, St. Bonaventura faculty mem­bers; Jim McVay, '42, and his brother Bill, '38, of Bradford, Pa., and George Fitzgerald,'25, of Olean. 
Currently, a drive for members is un­derway. Graduates, present-day and for­mer students within a 60-mile radius of the Olean-Bradford area are urged to contact Secretary Maloney, care of St. Bonaventure University, St. Bonaven­ture, N. Y. 


Symposium on Encyclicals 
In keeping with national and inter­national observance of the sixtieth an­niversary of Pope Leo XIII's famed Encyclical Rerun Novarum, four spe­cialists at the University conducted a 

May-June, 1951 
symposium on the subject May 15 in the Notre Dame law auditorium. 
Speakers at the commemorative sym­posium on Rerum Novarum ("On the Condition of Workers") were Rev. Paul 
E. Fryberger, C.S.C., of the Depart-Nature of an Encyclical"; History Pro­ment of Economies, speaking on "The fessor James A. Corbett, on "Historical Backgrounds of Rerum Novarum"; Rev. Thomas J. McDonagh, C.S.C., of the De-
Mr; I. A. O'Shaughncssy, of St. Fknl, Minn., and Univeisity President Fr. Joka Cavanaugh, C S. C, aifter the Board of Lay Trustees' meeting at which Mr. O'^iai^K nessy announced his benefaction of $673,533 to complete the Liberal and Fine Arts Building. 
partment of Eemioimea, on "Eeonomie Implications in the Ihieydieal"; and Professor Aanm L Abell, of the De­partment of History, "Reception of the Encyclical in the United States." 


Fr. O'Brien's New Book 
A nniqae new book, WhaPa the Truth About' CathoKea, by the Rev. John A. O'Brien, author and lecturer at the University, has just been published by Oar Sunday Visitor F^ess of Huntingt ton, Ind. 
Published as a contribution to better understanding and good will among peoples of different faiths and races. Father O'Brien's new book portrays the common misconceptions of CathoUe Faith and practice, and demonstrates how these caricatures tmconsdoosly breed antagonism and in wilL 
"Most of the prejudice obtaining among members of different creeds," Father O'Brien points out in his bode, "would si>eedily vanish if people leaOy understood the faith of others 'nstfud of a travesty of that belief. Too often creedal differences are exploited for po­litical purposes—a practice which should be frowned upon by members of all faiths." 


Maritain Ends Lectures 
. Dr. Jacques Maritain, noted French philosopher, has completed a series of lectures at the Universty under the aus­pices of the Notre Dame Mediaeval In­stitute. 
Dr. Maritain, who currently is a mem­ber of the faculty at Princeton Univer­sity, delivered four lectures during his visit to Notre Dame. He spoke to gradu­ate students in philosophy and students of the Mediaeval Institute on the snb­ect of "New Approaches to the Philo­sophical Problems of God." 
The internationally-prominent French scholar, former ambassador from France to the Holy See^ also'has served during his career on the faculties at the CaQio­lie Institute of Paris and at the Pontifi­cal Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, Canada. 
' Americaa Wkedahntw & Eqnp­mcM CotporatiiM, BiGshawaka, Ia£­
wiA sales lagiixw who have heca graduated fnat Notre 0unc wtdda Ac part dnce yean. Ilnse qaafificd aad lalffffilcd arc Bviied to write to 
L. J. WestUav (N. L. '41) at • 

FertWayM 
Dean Manion Malces a Capital Gain 
'*Pat Manion, Law School Dean in Harrbburgh. Listening arc Attorney General Robert Woodside, Club President Bill Moore and Herbert Sorg, Speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives. 
Judge Cullinan Gets Club's Verdict 
The Club went all out for Universal Nigrht, inviting the parents of students now in school both to the cocktail hour and dinner afterwards at the Chamber of Commerce. 
Ed Smith, assistant dean of the Com­merce School at the University was guest speaker and did a remarkably fine job. The dinner meeting began at 6:30 
p. m. Harry Hogan, '04, former president of the Alumni Association was named Man­of-the-Year. Jerry O'Dowd as chairman 
and his entire committee deserve a blow for the .job they did on the meeting. 
Michigan City, ind. 
Father Louis Thornton, c. s. c , Uni­versity Director of Admissions and Har­vey Foster, Alumni Board Director and Indiana director of the FBI were the Club's guests at its Universal Night ob­servation, on April 7. 
The observation was held at Glass House Restaurant, and John Kelley, '25, was awarded the Man-of-the-Year Cita­tion. Father Thornton and Mr. Foster both gave excellent talks. 
Walter Timm, Jr., '50 was inducted as new president, and other officers are John P. Donnelly, vice-president, John Fitz Henry, secretary and C. Fred Pil­liard, treasurer. 
• 

IMohawic Valley 
Paul Patten, '42, head football coach at St. Lawrence University was featured speake r at the Mohawk Valley's Night celebration, held in the Hamilton Hotel, Utica. 
Club President Ed Sweeney reported a record turnout for the occasion, and gives credit to Les Lovier for his job as chairman. 
Superior Judge John CuUinan accepting the Southwest Connecticut Club's "Year Man" 
Lou Malone, (li^t) Detroit President 
Award from Nick Lanese, new Club President and Joe McNanura, Retiring President. 
hands Art Cronin his Award Scroll. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Atlanta 
On April 2. Universal Xotrc Dame Xight the club gathered at the Gyps\- Room of the Hotel Clermont, and although we were unfortunate in not having a University representative present. Mr. M Abrams, 'OS, Mike >ViedJ, '34, BilJ BecUey, '54, and Pat Carroll, *34, handled the affair in great fashion. 
A luncheon has been scheduled for the first Fri­day of every month and from all indications will be a well attended affair. The April monthly meeting was a tremendous suuccrss with a stag dinner and get-together through the courtesy of Mr. AI Abrams, held at his home. 
Incidentally ^fr. Abrams' 5on, Ed Afarams, '50, is now stationed with the Navy in Washington. Friends of Ed may reach him at 2909 Cue St., Navy CT3, ^Vashington, D. C. 
Ml. Abrams* other son, 1st Lt. B. W. Abrams, '46, is now stationed in Korea with the 3rd Inf. Division. 
The following were present at the meeting: A. R. .Abranu, William E. Beckley, Patrick J. Carroll, Richard L. DcGolian, Thomas J. Egan, William E. Kennedy, Gilbert J. Kir^an, Robert J. Langcr, William T. L}-ons, Harry J. Mehre, Bill AfcCar­thy, Hugh RafTerty, ^Villiam E. Ricke, \\llliam H. Schrode, Roger R. Sullivan, Gerald B. White, Michael F. ^Viedl. 
I ha\*e recently heard from Hany C. Wright who has just been appointed Asst. Football Coach at the University of Georgia. We are looking for­ward to seeing Harry at our next meeting. 
New offictTs of the club arc Wm. "Bill" Beck-Icy, *34, President. Bill is District Mgr. of Bur­roughs Adding Machine Co.. and although a native Minncsotan, came to Atlanta via EI Paso. Texas. Yours truly is afitliatcd with the District^Saics of­fice of U. S. Gypsum Company. 
As for the Foundation, Mike Wiedl, '34. is keep­ing us well posted on the latest developments. Mike is doing a splendid job as Notre Dame Founda­tion Governor for the Stale of Georgia. 
Thomas J. Egan, *50 
Sec. N.D. Club of Atlanta 

Baltimore 
The Baltimore Club celebrated Universal Xotre Dame Night with a dinner in the Wedgcwood Room of the Hotel Emerson on .April 2. Preceding the dinner wa» a cocktail party in the Academy Room. 
Attending the obser\ance were: the .•\uxiliar>-" Bishop of the Archdiocese. Most Reverend Law­rence J. Shehan, D.D., V.G.; the new President of Loyola College, the Ver>- Reverend T. J. Mur­ray, S.J.; and the Mayor, Thomas D'Alcsandro, Jr. Wires were read from the two U. S. Senators from Mar>'land who were to attend but detained on the floor of the Senate. 
The speakers of the evening were; Vrr>- Reverend Howard Kemia, C.S.C, '29, Assistant Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and James H. Sheils, '35, Commissioner of Investiga­tion for the City of New York. Franklyn C. Hoch­reitcr, '35, acted as Toastmastcr. 
The new Club officers for 1951-52 were installed as follows: President, J. Gilbert Prend^rgast, *30; Vice President, W- Gregory Halpin, '49; Secretary'. William C. Loughran, '29; Treasurer, Frank D. White, ex '29. 
The retiring President, Edward F. Sporl, Jr., '34, received the Man of the Year Award and the traditional engraved sterling silver automatic jigger. 
On February- 22, Franklyn C. Hochrciter pre­sented the Club's CathoUc Press Trophy to Holy Cross Academy, Washington and Mount Saint Jo­seph High School of Baltimore at the Annual Cath­olic Press Conference of the two Archdioceses held this year at Mount Saint Agnes College, Baltimore. 
May-June, 1951 
Canton 
The Notre Dame Club of Canton honored Uni­versal Notre Dame night with huge success. The success of this event was made possible by having Father Edward A. Keller, C.S.C., head of the Bu­reau of Economic Research, as their principal speaker. 
Father Keller's unique distinction of being chosen by Economist Stanley Rukeyser as one of the top fifteen men in the antion, was a leading factor in obtaining the fifty most prominent industrialists of this area to be . honored guests for the Canton Club's Universal Notre Dame night celebration. This was the first venture of this t>*pe for the club, and the magnificent comments which fol­lowed assured the club that Notre Dame set a precedent in this area and has gained the full sup­port of influential business leaders. 
The club wishes to thank Mike Rocco, '28. Chairman, and his committee of Paul Belden, '32, Bill Belden, '36. George Maloncy, '34, and Dr. William Lciser, '37, for their efforts in making this event a tremendous success. Toastmaster Bob Blake's dynamic speech on .\mericanism was en­joyed by all. ' 
The ticket committee of Joe Vignos, '49. Bud Zink, '48. Pete Friday, '50, and Tom Duerr, '51, also dcscr\-e a word of praise for a task well done. The organization and promotion was capably han­dled by Vice President Louie Singer, '48, and SecTctary-Trrasurcr Jack Kennedy, '49, while President Herb Coleman, '48, took charge of pub­licity. 
Jack Kennedy, '49 

Central New York 
The Central New York Club's program for Uni­versal Notre Dame night was held on Thursday, April 5, at the Belle\*ue Countr>* Club in Syracuse. 
Nearly one hundred members and guests gath­ered in obser\'ancc of the annual affair and par­ticularly to honor the Rt. Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, '26, who during the fall of last year was elevated to the rank of Monsignor by His Holiness Pope 
Pius xn. 
Through the arrangements made by Bud Kirk, the club was fortunate in having the movies of the highlights of last season and the color films of the campus available to be shotvn to the group. 
Ted Dwyer and Dr. Jim Sheehy \verc elected to the Board of Directors of the club to replace the two retiring members of the board. Jack Mc-AulifTe and Barney Scbonlau. 
The Bellevuc club scr\'ed an excellent meal and was most generous in extending the use of its facil­ities, for which the credit is due Fred Delancy whose whole hearted cooperation made the eve­ning a very enjoyable one. 
In the social news department—a daughter, Lynn, was born to Jack and Jean Terry, February- 20. 
Central Illinois 
"Man of the Year" award went to Michael F. Seyfrit, director of the Illinois Department of Pub­lic Safety» 
Thirty members attended Universal Notre Dame Night observation, held at the Knights of Colum­bus Clubrooms. An unexpected and verv' welcome visitor was Father Joe Barry, from Notre Dame. He stopped on his way through to St. Louis. 
Father Joe talked briefly on his work for voca­tions, and on the Notre Dame Foundation pro­gram; his talk apparently was inspiring, for when he finished John Carroll, Foundation Chairman, made a motion that the club contribute $100 to the Foundation from our copious treasurv*. The mo­tion carried unanimously. 
The club will have its annual election of officers 
next month at the Lake Springfield Yacht Club With Zdtc WortUngtoa as host. 
Some Club news: Steve Gnfiker, Decatur, for­mer club president, is still flying regularly on weekends as a member of the St. Louis Naval Air Reserve and reading the morning papers with a decidedly personal interest. 
Jerry McGlope, diib secretary, returns this month from reserve tnuning at Fort Riley, Kan. He is a reser\-c c^tsun of artillery. 
Chicago 
The second "all-out" affair of the season was another resounding success. The Chicago Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 7 wi h a giant, glittering dinner at the Drake Hotel. 
Mrs. Clare Boothc Luce, the noted author-con­vert, was guest speaker for the evening. Fatlicr Theodore M. Hcsbvr:^ C.5.C., executive vice-president of the university, Fatlicr John Mmrphy, C.S.C., also a v-p, and Jim Armstrong headed the delegation from the Dome. 
More than 500 attended, so that it is obviously impossible to even begin listing the names of those present. However loud tributes of praise are due to general chairman Fred BecUenberg, Jr., and his loyal band of committee chairmen. 
These included Mailt Mitdidl, tickets and reser­vations; Richard J. Nash, patrons; Leo J. Powers, .\wards; Robert W. Edcr, Decorations; H. Gilbert Seaman, Business, and y'r 'umble amanuensis, Joe McCabe, publicity. Each of these had hard-work­ing and helpful assistants; I can't name them all, but as far as this overtaxed memory can recall, prominent among them were A. C. Stephan, Luke lleman, John M. Mootagiae, and, of course, our hard-working club pres, Al Stcpan. 
A number of awards were made at the dinner. Mr. Antoo C. Stephan, of the class of 1904, was given the annual cJub award as the "outstanding alumnus, Chicago metropolitan area." I men­tioned Mr. Stephan earlier, under the name by which most of us know him, "A.C." My. mention of him was as a hard-working assistant to the chairmen. This is almost tautological—because Mr. Stephan is always a hard-working dependable club member, doing his utmost to put over every affair of the club; no award was ever more richly de* ser\ed. 
Another award, that of "outstanding lay faculty member of the University of Notre Dame," was bestowed on Richard T. SnlGvan, of the class of 1930. Author and delightful speaker, Dick has long been a sterling asset to the University, and a great guy to all who know him. 
A special club a\«'ard, of a monogram blanket, was also made to Mr. Fred B. Suite, father of Fred Snite of the class of 1932, the poUo victim whose gallant smile has so often been pictured. Mr. Snite has been a good friend to the club through the years on the occasion of the annual golf tournament, and the club oflicials chose this as a small way of showing their gratitude. 
There were many highlights to the evening. One was the surprise return of the retiring preside'nt, Colood John W. Lacey, who flew in from Japan, where he had been serving with the .\tr Force, to attend the banquet. I saw Jack a few days after the dinner, and he said he had served his time and was free to begin the job of earning his first mil­lion again. 
Another distinguished notable who attended the dinner was his honor, Martin H. Kennclly, mayor of Chicago. Fresh from his recent victory in the city mayoral elections, his honor was an ornamental as well as noteworthy. addition to the guest table. 
Selected members of the N.D. glee club provided musical entertainment. Their offerings were en­thusiastically recxived. 
-A reception for the 110 patrons enlisted by Diclc Nash preceded the dinner. 
The club is now looking forward to the new June graduates-Alumni smoker, which is scheduled for sometime around the middle of June. . Ben Binkowshi, of the class of 1939, is geenral chairman for this innovation,' by Which it is hoped to arouse the interest of new club members while they .still have the memories of commencement fresh in their minds. Every effort will be made to make this an 
11 

emphatic success^ as every club is only as strong as the strength of the loyalty and the size of the enlistment of ncM' dub members. 
Connecticut Volley 
This Clubj which was recently identified in the ALUMNUS as ''One of our more active small CIiAs/' is certainly living up to that billing. 
In addition to regular monthly meetings in Hart­ford, We were rcrcently entertained at the Bond Hotel by the showing of two University released films, "Foolball Highlights of 1950" and "The Campus." 
The following week. Universal Xolrc Dame Night was obser^'ed in Connecticut on April 10th with Cocktails and Dinner at the Club Aldcn in Hartford. Following dinner, a business meeting was held wherein this Club's first cliarter was dis­cussed and accepted by the members as written. An election of Club Officers for 1951 was con­ducted under the new charter rules and the results of this balloting follows: 
President, John £. L>-xidi, Jr., '33. 
Vice President, Da*Td C. Bagley, '42. 
Secretary-, Paul J. McCormack, '40. 
Treasurer, Tim Muiphr, *24. 

Board of Governors: Thomas Carrey, 3 Year Term; Frank Ahem, 2 Year Term; Larry Woods, 1 Year Term; Matt Mcsldll, Retiring President. 
Dollos 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS began its observance of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 2 with a fifteen minute broadcast over a local radio station, to tell the people of Dallas the Notre Dame Story. The principal speaker of the occa­sion was Mr. James P. Swift, '24, introduced by Mr. James L. Walsh, Jr., '30. 
The cel^ration of Universal Notre Dame Night was climaxed in Dallas by the Notre Dame Club with a meeting and a cocktail party. At the meet­ing, the following new oflicers w*ere elected for 1951: President, James W. Simmons, '32; 1st Vice-President, Gordon A. Hanan, *41; 2nd Vice-Presi­dent, H. Lee Shipp, Jr., '48; Secretary, John F. Giles, III, '50; Treasurer, John L. Darrouzet, '40. 
Also, at that time, the Man of the Year .Award 

Mr. Cody Fov^er,' oC Tampa^ Florida, Presi­dent of die American Bar Association and Law Dean Cbraice E. Manion, during Mr. FoY^cr's recent visit to the Law School. 
The hock they are inspecting is Dean Maaion's "Key to Peace," published by the Heritage FomdatioM of Qiicago. 
Avas presented to James W. Simmons—a man who is bringing Notre Dame closer to the people of Dallas—in recognition of his outstanding work in the Notre Dame Club, religious circles throughout .Dallas, and his work in civic affairs. The presen­tation was made by Mr. J. J. Foley, Chairman of the Committee who elected the Man of the Year. Plans for year activities were discussed and pre­
liminaries commenced for a Spring dance to be 
held at a later date. Also, enthusiastic preparations 
are under way for the Club trip to the Notre 
Dame-S.M.U. game in October at Notre Dame. 
At the meeting, it was learned that two Notre Dame men are the proud fathers of future Notre Dame students: Paul Spencer Beckner was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George W. Beckner, '40; and to Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Lohr, '42, was born an eight pound boy, Charlie Lohr, Jr. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS brought its meeting and its obser\'ance of Univer­sal Notre Dame Night to a close by agreeing that the Spirit of Notre Dame is the best spirit a man can have. 
Dearborn, Mich. 
Here is some news about the Notre Dame Club 

of Dearborn. 
New officers are Pete Keman, Secretary-Treas­

urer; Gene Rheaumc, President; and Gerry Sarb, 
Vice President. 
Our Club Dircctqp arc: Tom Tucker, Tom 

Eagan, and John Kilbane until 1952, Jerry Hanra­
han, Charlie Sdilegcl, and Tom Dore until 1953, 
and Jerry Wayne, Didc King, and Cass Rejcnt 
until 1954. 
The Dearborn Club had a representative (to 

quote Coach Leahy) turnout at the Detroit Club's 
Universal Notre Dame night. Dean McCarthy did 
a good job on the "Morality of Taxation." 
On St. Patrick's night we had our second annual 

part>'. Over tu'enty couples attended that night. 
There is quite a bit of baby news. Heading the 

list is Jerry Hanrahan who was blessed with a 
boy after five girls. The Jerry Waynes have tMro 
boys now—named Tom and Jerry. Other happy 
fathers are Gerry Saxh, John O'Hara, Art Coa­
nors, Jim Ste\-enson, John Sdiaefer, Tom Tucker, 
Larry Dolan* and Cass Rejent. Note to Dearborn 
Club Members—please excuse your secretary if he 
has missed one or tivo birth announcements. There 
are at least twenty-five alumni in Dearborn. 
There is obituary news. Both Gerry Sarb's and 

Pete Keman*s fathers passed away recently. Jerry 
Hanrahan's and JtAm Borfcowski*s mothers died. 
And Jim Daly's wife was killed in an auto accident. 
The Dearborn Club has gathered five times to say the Rosary at funerak. The most recent Rosary was said for the intention of Mr. Julian Chapman, an Associate Member who attended Universal Notre Dame Night with us in good health, and who was buried eight da>*s later after a heart attack. 
Our first contrOiution to the Notre Dame Foun­

dation for 1950, our first year of activity, was $250. 
In May we had a stag gathering at Gerry Saih's 

house, and on May 20 we had our second Annual 
Communion Breakfast at St. Bemadette's Mission. 
After that, we plan a summer picnic, attendance at the Detroit Club golf party, a return "tour" of Stroh's Brewery, and of course, the University of Dctroit-Notrc Dame football game in October. 
Denver 
The 28th annual Universal Notre Dame night 

diservance was held at the Park Lane Hotel April 
2nd. This year's gala affair began with a fried 
chicken dinner at the "Top Of The Park." The 
club members were ser\'ed a complete chicken din­
ner at $3.00 per plate. The complete price was 
$1.00 per plate or $2.00 for club member and wife. 
The club paid the additional $4.00. 
After the dinner the dub adjourned to the spa­

cious Colonial Room. The newly elected officers 
were installed by Robert Flynn, club President. 
Mr. Joseph A. Craven, Chairman of the Notre 

Dame Foundation for the Rocky Mountain Area, 
gave a very fine talk on the progress of the foon­
dation in this area. Mr. Craven explained the 
needs of the university and urged all alumni to 
give their utmost cooperation in helping the Foun­
dation in meeting its goals. 
CIi^ members and their wives enjoyed the rest of the evening at the "Top of the Park" dancing, and a general get-together like a real Notre Dame family gfotq>. 
Harrisburg 
On Tuesday, April 3, the Alumni and friends of the University held their annual celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night with Dean Clarence Maaioa as the University's representative. This affair was the most outstanding in the history of the local alumni group and resulted in excellent publicity for the school and the local group. 
The day long celebration began with a rare con­cession granted to any individual in that Dean Manion was invited to .address the General Assem­bly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania then in session. At 12:45 on Tuesday Dean Manion deliv­ered a sUrring ten minute address to the Assembly, his theme based upon the fact that the Ten Com­mandments are the basis for true democracy. 
Mr. Manion was presented to t ^ legislature by the Honorable Herbert Sorg, Speaker of the House, and at the conclusion of his talk the entire Assembly arose and applauded. 
Following this Dean Manion was presented to the Governor, John S. Fine; the Lieutenant Gover­nor, Lloyd Wood; and Senate President Pro Tern, 
M. Harvey Taylor. 
In the evening a banquet was held at the West Shore Country Club, attended by 130 Notre Dame men, their wives and friends, and guests of the club. The guests of honor were Robert E. Wood­sidc. Attorney General of Pennsylvania; Herbert Sorg, Speaker of the House of Pennsyl\*ania; The Rt. Rev, John A. Maguire, representing Bishop George L. Leech of Hanisburg, who was absent from the city; Huette Dowling, Representati\-e in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives; and the principals of all the Catholic High Schools in Central Pennsylvania. 
E. IL EcfccniDde, Jr., was General Chairman of the dinner with William J. Mooce, president of the Notre Dame Club of Harrisbui^, acting as toast­master. 
The talk of Dean Manion's was broadcast by sUtion WHP from 10:00 to 10:30 p.m., this sU­tion servicing an area of ^proximately 100 miles in Central Pennsylvania. The reaction the follow­ing day by many of the radio audience was excep­tionally favorable. It is significant to note that on the following day, April 4, an editorial appeared in the Harrisburg Patriot and Evening News com­mending Dean Manion's remarks to the Pennsyl­vania General Assembly. 
Indianapolis 
Our UnK-ersal Xotre Dame Night dinner was 

•held at the Indianapolis Athletic Club Monday 
^ night, April 2nd. Father Cavanaugh delivered a wonderful talk and was, of course, the main reason for our being able to hold such a wonderful dinner. 
Hngk Boras did an excellent job as toastmaster; Jokm O'Coonor, the general chairman, together with the members of his committee, did an out­standing job on all of the arrangements. The guests who attended were as follows: 
Gov. and Mrs. Henrr F. Sdiricker, of Indiana. 

• Mayor and Mis. Fbillip L. Bayt, of Indianapolis. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Eailr, The Indianapolis Star. Mr. P. C mdOr, Special Guest. 
Dr. W. D. Gatck, Special Guest. 

Rev. ttxrmtmi Boiler, Editor of the Indiana Catholic and Record. Re*. JaaKs Gabia, Superintendent, Cathedral High Sdiool, Indianapolis. Bmkcr Rccis, C.S.C., Principal, Cathedral High Sdiool. Dcaa and Mis. M. K. Heia, Indiana University Dental School. Deaa and His. F. C. Hockcau, Purdue Univer-Mty. Dcaa and MIS. Joha D. Vaa Nays, Indiana Uni­vetstty Medical Center. Mr. aad Mis. Richard JaaK*. Vice President, Butler Umveraty. 
Tke Notre Dame Almmnus 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hogan, Fort Wayne. 
Thu, of course, was the biggest affair the club has ever had and we were quite proud of the fact that the ladies turning out with us rsused our at­tendance to 410. 
This was also our election night, and the new officers are Tom Fitzgerald, President; Jolm J. Caiey, \^ce-President; John M. Ryan, Secretary; Bob Lot^irey, Treasurer; and new directors, Henry FroBuneycr, Jr., and James Rocap. The Man of the Year Award was given to Lcroy J. Keach, Sr., for club support and outstanding civic and moral leadership. 
Konsas City 
WV had our annual Notre Dame Night at the HiUcrest Country Club, Kansas City. The "Notre Dame Man of the Year" Award was presented to Joseph R. Stewart, '26. OfRecrs elected were: 
T. E. (Ben) Oakcs, President. 
J. E. (Gene) Murray, Vice-President. Richard J. Bo%ves, Secretary. Ridiard P. Prczebcl, Treasurer. We had a vcr%- successful gathering, with approx­
imately 100 present. 
Los Angeles 
An evening crowded with entertainment and hand shaking reached a successful climax as the Los Angeles ND club bestowed on its faithful son and past president of the Alumni Association, Leo B. Ward, *22, a scroll honoring his selection *is our "Man of the Year." 
Under the guidance of Ben Alexander, '33, mak­ing his debut as president of the club, the dinner was chairmaned by Bion Vc^el, '25, who, with the help of "Judge" Carberry. '31, Bill Heam, '37, Mannie Vene, '29, Vem Rickard, '24, Gene Ling, '38, Gene Kennedy, and Baden Powell, '32, surrounded the tabic with Frank Fay as Toast­master, Jerr>- Colona, Wally Ford, Eddie Garr and Paramount's lovely Aileen Stanley, Jr. 
Ann Blythe, who seldom misses a turnout, was forced to send a recorded greeting. She's making a picture in Europe. Dennis Day couldn't make it due to rehearsal of his radio program. 
Meeting at the Nikabob Restaurant more than 250 members and friends got into the underlying spirit of the evening when our good friend, the Hon. Joseph A. Scott extolled the virtues of a Notre Dame education while denouncing Commu­nism and praising Frank Fay for the marvelous job he did at Maflison Square Garden not too long ago by telling New Yorkers of the dangers of "subversive elements." 
Without benefit of his friend and co-worker, "Harvey," Fay again proved conclusively that this nation needs more comedians of his ability and serious thought. A remark of his that had our own Father John Lyndi, C.S.C., reaching for his pencil for the basis of a sermon was: "Every time I go near a Church, I go 4 paces inside so when I'm carried in. Our Lord won't say, *Who is it?' " 
Charlie Murphy, '28, of course was there, and, as usual, was the hardest working guy in the house. Gene Calhoun, Cleve Carey, Ed Moriarty, Martin D'Errico, Rudy Obcrgfall and Ben Alexan­der represented the class of '33. 
Others spotted during the evening were Joe Sul­livan, '36, Bcntley Ryan, *32, Dr. Leo Turgeon, '44, Bob Horrcn, '46, AI Howard, '31, Bob Kelly, '34, Jack Zilly, '46, Alex Shellogg, '47, Ted Ashe, '31, Ed Ashe, '27. 
Dr. Frank Brcslin, '13. was at the speakers* table and Ralph Dumke, '22, took a bow. Al Wei­zenbach, '30, Bill McGrath, '42, Terry McGovem, '48, George Dixoo, '49, Dr. Harold Guerin, '40, Ed Cunmn^iam, '28, John McArdle, '35, Jim Mc­Cabe, '22, Vem Rickard, '24, and Henry Lynch. 
Lou B«rardi, '30, received an engraved pen and penul set for his splendid work last year as presi­dent of the club. Charlie Gass, Fred Parent, Afar-tin Goodman, all of '30, were on hand. 
Dr. Larry Frost, '46. Dr. Bill Molony, '33, Dick O'Connor, '22, Paul Rigali, '48, Steve Finan, '37, Jim Sweeney, '45, Rex Ellis, '37, John Railton, '18,. Ben Smilhton, '39, Win Schulte, '39, Tom Misterly, '32, Paul Cahill, '32, Tom Foy, '39, and his father, Vine seen during the evening. Judge Al A. Scott, '21, was there of course. 
Ed Sheeran, '31, came up from Long Beach to be on hand. Bob Huether of '39, John GoOins, '37, Dudley Smith, '43, and Jack Heam and Ed Ciri­deo and many many others enjoyed themselves immensely. 
This was the second big turnout in three days. On March 31st Msgr. James Dolan celebrated the Knute Rocknc Memorial Mass at Cathedral Chapel. About a hundred turned out to honor Rock with their prayers. Jim Fhelan, '21, Jobn Wallace, '27, Ben Alexander, '33, were a few of the monogram men present. 
The Pasadena Sports Ambassadors sponsored a Rockne Testimonial Dinner recently, and among those present were Tim Moynihan, Mannae- Vesie, John Wallace, Larry Vejar, Jim Fhelan, Leo Ward, Vem Rickard and Ben Alexander. This array of ND Men was supported by Jeff Cravath, former head man at USC, Pat O'Brien, who admitted to playing a minute and a half for Marquette against one of Rock's teams, talked of his memorable role of "Rock" in the picture Notre Dame men will never forget. 
It looks like 1951 will be a banner year for the Los Angeles club and plans are being formulated now to welcome the team and visiting friends come next December 1. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
The Mid-Hudson Valley Notre Dame Club held a very successful celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 2, 1951. A good group gathered at "Judie's" in Kingston, New York, to pay honor to the University of Notre Dame. 
The principal speaker was Rev. Henry J. Kauf­man, of St. Mary's Church, Poughkeepsie, New York. The theme of his speech centered about— "spiritual values in education that carry forth into life." The address was enthusiastically received by all. Notables in attendance were the Very Rev. Msgr. Martin J. Drury, PRVF, Dean of Ulster and. Sullivan counties and Pastor of St. Mary's Church, Kingston, New York; the Honorable Oscar 
V. Newkirk, Mayor of the Cit>* of Kingston; and 
Pat Canny, Cleveland's Man of the Year. A 1928 Law Graduate, Mr. Canny is assist­ant general counsel for the Erie railroad. 
many alumni, their t^^n;— ^^d friends of the University. 
Joka KUIM acted as toastmastcr, and retvi^ Preudent Fnacii J. SmtSBffm reviewed tlie year's activities of the club. 
The new cIiA officers installed on Universal Notre Dame N^ t were: HCBTT Foher, Kingston, 
N. Y., President; Jaks Knk^ Pbu^ikeepsie, N. Y., A^ce-Preudent; Jofea C. FbnafM, Kingston, N. Y., Secretary-Treasurer. 

au b item: This year the Mid-Hudson Valley Notre Dame club gave a helping haiid to the NYC Notre Dame club in its aniwial scholarship fund drive, providmg funds for needy and deieni ^ young men who will best benefit from a Notre Dame education. 
Join C. Flanagan Secretary-Treasurer 
New York City 

A few years ago we -were concerned about not having enough events within the Club to satisfy the General Membership. Today we're wondering if we aren't (Bering too many. Since last report­ing in Fd>ruary we've had committeemen falling all over themselves to get things done and on time. 
The monthly meeting in February at the Bilt­more was a lulu. Where our meeting room ordi> naxHf woold hawe been-coafortaUe with 200 fri­lows seated around tables, Gcae Tunney, Jack X.n­vcDe, Toamy Loufjbaa and a quartet from the Friendly Sons <A Saint Patrick had 'em standing around the walls and out in the foyer. Ttmney gave the membership present some insist into the disagreeable task of having to sit on the board of selection each year for Bob Hanrihn«*s Trust Fund—dis^reeable to the extent that he wished 
he was able to say yes to each of the fifteen con­testants for scholarsldps to the University and not only two, which the Club is limited to give because of the non-support some men extend each year to Bob's drive for funds. 
"I'm giving $100.00 a year for ten years, and have made provisions in my will, but please don't ask me to go through more afternoons of selec­tion" remarked Gene. Tommy Loughran, another ring immortal, proved to be one tA the finest speak­ers we've ever had at the Club. Little off A e record stories hi^ili^ted Tom's talk and he ex­tolled Notre Dame for the fine training she has fostered in her sons—a training he's noticed in the hundreds of Notre Dame men he's met in his many years of travel. 
As only the "old professor" can. Jade Lavdle capped the eveaii^ with numerous stories—all of which seem each year to be Jack's own. In the ten or twelve years this Secretary has known him, I don't believe I've ever heard him repeat one twice. Perhaps the evening was a warm vp for St. Patrick's Day because the quartet had no love for anyone else bnt the Irish on this ni^t—(may­be that was good too because one of them was from Fordham). 
A week after this meeting. Jack Hoyt agam chairmaned and engineered-a highly successful basketball luncheon at Toots Shor's. Approumate­ly 250 of the faithful were on liand to hear Father Hcslmr8^ Bloose Kranse, sportscaster Don Dnn­phy and Mr. James Giloon of the staff at N.Y.U. This session was hii^Ui^ted by a Club presenta­tion of a scroll to Waller "Red" Saitli of the New York Herald Tribune and NJ). for his hon­est and faithful reportii^ of all types of sporting e\*ents throughout the country. 
Bob Cooke, sports Editor of the Tribune, ac­cepted the award for Red, who was South with the ball teams, and praised Red for the man he is and expressed the hope that he would be writh them until he gives up sportwriting. Later that night Notre Dame played N.Y.U. in the Garden. Next paragraph!! 
While all the above was going on, Jokn Alc-Canley was taking a^irin by the hundreds—one for each headache representing a detail connected with running our March event, the Annua] Glee Club concert here in New York. This year the 500 plus gathered at the New York Athletic Club to hear the gang from school give out with a light ^ry recital and then a reception in the Main din­ing room of the A.C. 
One more year as Chairman, and with as little help as John gets, and he'll be completely grey. Ctmsiderittg television shows and various other re­citab in and around New York by the Glee Club 
May-June, 1951 

during the week, McCauIcy. had them out again —an attestation to John's ability as a Chairman incomparable. Needless to say. we already have our bid in again for a date by the singing ^'lads" for next Easter %veek, but woid has it that yic-Cauley was seen reading literature about Alaska on the street recently. 
April 2nd, one week later, brought about Univer­

sal Xotrc Dame Night and our most recent meet­
ing to date. George E. Sokolsk)-, nationally fa­
mous s^mdicated columnist and an LL.D. holder 
from the Univcrsit>% once again brought the 200 
attending alumm to their feet in a rousing ova­
tion after more than an hour's talk and question-
answer session. Tracing the succession of Presi­
dents from the da>*s of Grant to the present, and 
the values of each administration within that time. 
The Officers and Members of the Xotrc Dame 
Club of New York will be forever grateful to this 
great member of the press and only wisli we could 
have him talk to us at each meeting. 
The "Man of the Year" to our way of thinking is Ed Bcckman '16 . . . and we told him so on .April 2nd at the same meeting. But llien again, that's only one year. 
Sorac committcctncn come and go. olJjrrs linger awhile and fade, but Ed's the "dean*' when it comes to consistency* and hard work. You'd think a fellow had enough to do being on the N.D. .Alumni Board of Directors, being a highly success­ful advertising man and the watchdog for all us younger squirts who hav*e ideas on how to run an alumni club^ but Ed only recently took over the reins of our Placement Committee and is now-conducting clinics and whatnot. 
The lines along which Ed has set up this Com­mittee has drawn praise from not only the alum­ni in these parts but professional emplo>-ment men and personnel directors alike. A column short as this cannot relate the benefits to the young and old who haven't contacted Ed as yet with regard to attending clinical sessions for new jobs and clianges. Ed's phone number here in N.Y. is Mel­rose 5-54O0 and his mailing address is the Greshoff Advertising .Agenc\-. 406 East 149th St.. New York, 
N. Y. 
It would probably be smart on the part of this secretary to get out a couple of hundred mimeo­graphed sheets on the activities of Bob Hamilton and his running of the.,Trust Fund Drive each year .. . in that way dll he and his successors would have to do would be to fill in the amount that Bob gathers each year and the number of deserving boys he helps send out to the University on Scholarships each year. 
Tills year, on Universal Xotrc Dame Night. 

Bob's committee terminated their drive and col­
lected approximately $3300.00 towards these schol­
arships and the administration of their committee 
for the year to come . . . their administration be­
ing concerned with the awarding of further money 
to the \-arious charities in and around New York. 
.A 16-day round-trip to Europe for two . . . via 
Pan American Clipper . . . television sets and 
other awards including a case of Seagrams best 
were Bob's offer this year . . . but the poor guy 
still had trouble with fellows unwilling to help him. For another issue and report—the annual visit in May of Father Ca\'aiiaugfa and the June sports dinner or smoker; for the summer: golf dates, etc; for the fall: besides monthly meeting, the Na\T Trip chalrmaned by Tim O'Rourice, newly joined 
member of the Group Department of New York 
Life Insurance Company. 
New Jersey 
Tributes were paid to the academic, scientific, cultural, patriotic and religious contributions of the University of Notre Dame at the New Jersey obser\'ancc of "Universal Notre Dame Night" Monday, .April 2, 1951, at the Newark .Athletic Cluh. Among the 300 guests were 100 Passaic-Bergen residents. 
President Joseph A. Abbott, of Paterson. presi­dent of the state alumni association, presented Geoi^e K. Bait, vice president of the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce with a citation, hon­oring him as the state's outstanding businessman. The citation mentioned Mr. Batt's leadership In trade associations and chnc endeavors, his pro­gressive and understanding attitudes in industrial relations, his personal integrity and the manner In which he upholds the Christian ideals of family 
life. 
Mr, Batt Is a graduate of Purdue, vice president 

and treasurer of Dugan Bros., a director of Bloom­
field College & Seminar>*, vice-president of the 
Laymen's Movement for a Christian World and a 
former mayor of Montclair. 
Principal speaker w*as the Re\'. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., executive vice president of the Uni­versity. 
Father Hcsburgh outlined the history* of Notre Dame, going back to the day 109 years ago when Fatlier Sorin iv-alked through a snoiv-coverrd Indi­ana mission woodland to pick the site on the spot where the first Mass in this country was celebrated. He traced the progress of the university, citing the trials and tribulations of Father Sorin and his associates, and the undaunted spirit of the pioneer priest-educator. 
That spirit, he said. Is the spirit of Xotre Dame today. He pointed with pride to the 50 buildings that now form the university and the five new buildings being constructed. 
At Notre Dame, Father Hesfaurgh said, the pro­gram is to educate the whole man, his mind, body and soul. He urged the Notre Dame men and their friends to carr>' the spirit of Notre Dame Into their communities, that they may be better places in which to live. 
Jack La\'elle, raconteur and scout for the New York Football Giants, told several entertaining stories. 
.Among the honored guests were Very Rev. James 

J. Shanahan, S.J., president of St. Peter's College, Jersey City; Re\'. Philip Hoo\-er, O.S.B., headmas­ter of St. Bendict's Preparatory School, Newark; Capt. Elliott Ranncy, commandant of the Bayonne Naval Base; Joseph M. B}Tiie, Jr., vice-chairman of the Port of New York .Authority and member of tlic board of lay trustees of Notre Dame. 
Former members of famous Notre Dame football teams present were Hugh Dc\'ore, Angela Bertelli, Frank Tripucka, George Ratterman, Buck>' O'Con­nor and John Kelly. Francis "Reds" Bagncll, for­mer Penns\'K'ania star, also was introduced as was Greg Rice, ex-Notrc Dame track star, and Ray Blum, 01>-mpic speed skater. 
Thomas Hogan of Maplewood was chairman of the dinner. 
New Orleans 
.And to be sure 'twas a gay night at Brennan's Vicux Carre when members of the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans moved in on its second floor from all round the Crescent to take part in Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Following dinner a treasurer's report was read by past Secretar\'­Treasurer, Leo Happel, '39, and tlie Notre Dame Man of the Year award was presented to Mr. Fred Digby for his outstanding Catholic example and his faithful support of Notre Dame. 
Officers elected for the following year were: Mike Smith, '44, President, Lee Happel, '37, Vice Presi­dent, and WlUoughby Marshall, '49, Secretary-Treasurer. The club as a whole expressed appreci­ation to the past officers and in particular to Tom McMahon, '29, past President, who was so instru­mental in the success of the pep rally, the big event of last year, held at the Roosevelt Hotel preceding the Tulane-Notrc Dame game in Oc­tober. 
Father Louis Thornton, '29, principal speaker and Director of Admissions at Notre Dame, was enthusiastically applauded on his talk in whlcli he brought back to us the real purposes of Notre Dame, the ends for which Holy Cross is continu­ing to work. For the final entertainment of the evening, a movie of the Notre Damc-Tulane game of 1950 was shown. This was obtained through the efTorts of Bill Dreux. 
Northern California 
John ^faloncy, '41. was chairman of a ver>' suc­cessful Uniicrsal Notre Dame Night observance held in San Francisco April 2. Father James Doll, C.S.C., was the principal speaker and did his usual excellent job. 
Our new officers, in case any visitors arc in town. 
George E. Tbomas, '37, Prcudent, 2701 Durant, Bcrfcelcy-Robert A. Tar^-cr, *49, Vice-President, 800 N. El Camiao Real, San Mateo. Frank M. Pcm, '48, Treasurer, 19 Robert Place, MiUbne. Fut Ftcsidcnt BUI Daly, '41, volunteered to per­form the secretar>''s duties and his offer was ac­cepted before he could reconsider. Bill's address is 3314 Bryant, Palo Alto. He and ex-President Hoover, he observes, live in the same town. The Clubs elected sLx new directors: Fred Peakc, Mike McDcnnott, Slip Madigan, Paul Cushing, Andy McMuUcn and Breen McDotuId. Events scheduled for the coming year include. Annual Father & Son Ni^t , June Summer Barbecue and Kcnic Lutcning-m Party, SMU game Football Trip, USC game One>Dar Retreat, S^tcmber 16 Communion Sunday, Dec. 9 Dinner for ND Sfaiine Game players 
Philadelphia 
Notre Dame men tn the Quaker City celebrated one of their most successful UND Xight observ­ances on Wednesday evening, April 4, at the War­wick Hotel. On hand from the campus were such notables as Rev. Theodore M. Hesbui^h, C.S.C., Dean "Pat** Manion and Coadi Frank Leahy. In addition, Afr. Francis T. Afurray, Graduate Man­ager of Athletics, and Mr. George Munger. head football coach at the University of Pennsylvania, were on hand. 
Rev. James W. Gibbons, D.D., LL.D., rector at the nationally famous Lax'men's Retreat House, Malvern, Pa., also graced the head tabic. One of the highlights of the evening was the appearance— via direct long-wire hook-up—of Ed Sullivan and Jimmy Durante, who held the 550 (capacity) guests enthralled for one half<hour with some of Durante's hi-jinks and two very sincere and warm­hearted tributes to N.D. 
Fatbcr Hcsburi^ dwelt on the background of the University, while Pat Manion actually h>'pnotized his audience with an eloquent plea for a return to true Christian values In education. Coach Leahy, always true to his fashion, predicted naught but misery for the Irish In '51. 
The Dinner marked the formal assumption of office by the Club's new line-up of wheels. Joe Cattic, *41, accepted the reins of leadership from "Bud" Dudley, '43, who has taken up the duties of Foundation Chairman. Other officers Include John H. Nccson, Jr., '35, Treasurer, John P. Dempscy, '49, Secretary, and Charles J. McKin­ney, '29, Vice-president. 
President Cattie conferred a double "Man of the Year" award on Clifford E. Prodehl, *32. and Leonard H, Tose, '37. These two worthies had so distinguished themselves in the past on behalf of the University that the Board of Governors had ni) other choice but to select both for the Club's most coveted honor. 
Jack Dcmpsey, '49, was General Chairman, ably 

assisted by Art Coughlan, '48, Dan Young, '22. and 
Tom Dempsey, in addition to the officers and 
Board of Governors, which now numbers among 
its august personnel: Joe Cattie, Bud Dudley, Biil 
Bodo, Charley Conley, Jack Dempsey, Charley 
XfcKinncy, John Neeson, ClIfT Prodehl, VInce 
Dooohue and Walt Ridley. 
Rock River Valley 
We had what we consider a very successful Xotre Dame gathering April 5. .About ninety, in­cluding the ladies, were present. Hu ^ Bums, '39, delivered a very fine message and all who heard him were favorably impressed. 
We received some vcr>' good newspaper coverage both in Dixon and in Sterling and in the Dioce­san paper. Also Hugh's address and the presenta­tion speeches for the Scholarship Award and "Man of the Year" Award were tape recorded by radio station WSDR. 
We recei\-ed very fine radio publicity before the meeting and afterwards. The tape recording was re-broadcast on Friday night at 8:30 and took about 50 minutes. We feel that Notre Dame has 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

been favorably presented to the people of this community. 
Mr. John N. Hackett, who will be graduated from Polo High School in June, was the winner of this year's Club Scholarship. He was a straight "A" student at Polo and was active in football, basketball and track. We feel that we are sending a very high-class boy to Notre Dame. Presentation was made by Attorney Robert L. Bracken, '07, of Dixon. 
This year's Notre Dame "Man of the Year" Award was presented to Paul J. Fr>-, '27, our re­tiring President. We feel that he is eminently entitled to it as he has been a ver>- earnest and loyal worker for Notre Dame for many years. This award is usually presented by the President of the Club but because he was receiving it (without his knowledge) the new president, Jerry Jones, repre­sented the Club and made the presentation. 
Officers for the Club for the coming year were 

elected as follows; Gerald Jones, Dixon, President. Ray Marelli, Rockford, Vice-President. James E. Bales, Dixon, Secretary. Ray M. DeCourcey, Rochelle, Treasurer. Paul J. Fry, Dixon, Director. Joseph Biltorf, Sterling, Director. George W. Monroe, Freeport, Director. 
Again, the club wishes to thank you for arrang­ing for Hugh to be with us. He is a very fine representative for the University and we enjoyed having him. 
Saginaw (Mich.) Valley 
The Saginaw VaJJey Club is happy to report that the April 2 Universal Notre Dame Night obser\-a­tion this year was an unqualified success. We had forty members out, the most who have ever at­tended any function of this club. 
New officers elected are: Paul Brysselbout (Bay City), President. Harold V. Lappin (Saginaw), Vice-President. Vincent Boyle (Bay City), Secretary-Treasurer. 

You'll be hearing from us as our summer pro­gram and football trip get beyond the planning stages. 
San Diego 
On Monday, April 9, the San Diego Club held its annual election of officers in the Amber Room of the Manor Hotel. New lineup is: 
VVinfield Day, President. Ugo Rossi, Vice-President. Francis "Red** Davis, Secretary-. Howard F. Beilstein, Treasurer. 

We have scheduled monthly meetings for the ensuing year and hope to be able to give you a little more news from this corner of the country in the future. 
Schenectady 
All members of the Schenectady club were sad­dened on receiving the news of Lt. Bill Finch, '49, U.S.M.C, being killed in action in Korea on March 2, 1951. Alumni. and families attended a Requiem High Mass for him on Saturday, April 7th, at St. Helen's church, Schenectady. On this same date a Mass was offered at school by Father John H. Murphy, University vice-president in charge of public relations. 
The club's year reached its, peak on Universal Notre Dame Night. The dinner i»'as held at the . Edison club with the largest attendance for any Notre Dame function in this section in some time. Wc were joined by alumni and friends from Sara­
toga, Troy and Albany for this affair. 
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C.. Head of the Religion Department, gave a very inspiring talk, which is still being discussed here. Also on the program were: Very Rev. John J. Finn, former National President of the Holy Cross Alumni As­sociation; Rev. Edward L. O'Malley, *34, St. Mary, Troy; John J. Huethcr, '22, local chairman of the Foundation Committee; and \^^Iiam G. Leonard, '49, our president, who presented Father Sheedy with a check for the Foundation on behalf of the Schenectady club. 
Frank M. Linehan, '45, scr\'ed as toastmaster, and doing most of the arranging for this excellrnl affair were a pair of '49ers, Robert E. Eckel and Thomas A. Howley. 
The announcing of the Man of the Year Award was one of the highlights of the evening. The club made its award to the late Lt. Willbm P. Finch, '49, U.S.M.C. After ser\'ing his country for three years with the Marines in AVorld War II he re­turned to school and on the day previous to his graduation he received his Reserve OfHcers com­mission. Being with the Federal Bureau of Inves­tigation in Washington for just one year. Bill was called to active duty on Oct. 4th, 1950. Bill had given more than five years of his young life to the ser\-icc of his countiy and is the second Notre Dame man to be killed in Korea. 
Officers for the coming year were installed on UND Night. Elections had been held on March 6th at a meeting in the Knights of Columbus Home. Bill Leonard, '49, was re-elected president, OS was Bob Eckel, '49. v.p., and Frank Linehan, '45, sec.-treas. Tom Howlcy, '49, was elected to a three year term on the Board of Governors. All officers were commended on the fine job that was done in the past year and all were hopeful that the excellent work will continue. 
So all in all, the UND Night program wns a huge success, with alumni, wives, parents and friends all enjoying themselves. 
Presently wc are working for a Notre Dame group for the local Nocturnal Adoration Society. 
On Easter Monday, St. John the Evangelist church, Schenectady, was the scene of a Notre Dame wedding. Bill Leonard, our president, was married to the former Margaret Miriam McGrath. Frank Linehan was best man and Bob Eckel and 
San Antonio's Club held its Universal Night dinner in the' honic^of Mrs. Max Goodman and entertained several servicemen from, ncarby,.,Lack]ahd .Air Base 
Tom Howley served as ushers. All are officers ol 
the club. Even the. flowers and girls* gowns fea­
tured the colors of the University and as an added 
attraction at the reception the three N.D. attend­
ants rendered school songs. 
Another member left the ranks of bachelorhood. 

Raynond Zasada, *49, now in the Army, was mar­
ried to the former Ann Govel, April I5th at Our 
Lady of Angels church, Albany. 
South Central (Wis.) 
On Universal Notre Dame Night, Afonilay, April 

2, 1951, the South Central Wisconsin Notre Dame 
Club had a dinner at Kennedy Manor in Madison, 
Wisconsin. New officers were elected as follows: 
President, Tbooias H. Flad, Madison, Wisconsin. 
Vice President, Paul R. Brannan, Madison, Wis­

consin. 
Secretary-Treasurer, Edwin C. Pick. 
The annual summer party was planned for the 

Dodgeville Country Club where the Club has met 
for golf and evening dinner and fun for several 
years. As usual T. P. (Sea) Kug and WHIum 
Gmgan (the former of Dodgeville, Class of 1910. 
and the latter of Mineral Point, Class of 1935) 
will take care of arrangements. 
The dinner at Kennedy Manor was attended by 

members of the Club, their wives and friends of 
Notre Dame. The Rev. Father Thomas Lourim 
of St. R^qihael's of Madison gave a short talk on 
an outsider's observation on Notre Dame. The 
main address of the evening was given by a gradu­
ate of Marquette University, Vincent Deppisch, 
who spoke on the. "Assumption of Our Blessed 
Mother"—a very excellent talk. 
The following were present at the meeting: T. I*. King, 1910, Dodgeville; John E. Tobin, .1934, Mad­ison; William Ford, 1912, Janesville; Tbomas £ . Henncy, 1943, Portage; Ibrry B. Haley* Ihladison; Bob Casliin, Madison; .Tbonas H. FJad, Madison; Maurice F. Leahy,' l939, Madison; Frank Hanul­ton, 1930, Dodgeville; Herman Scfawarz, Madison; Paul R. Bruman, Madison; Frank Doyle, 1927, Madison; Wmiam. P. Grogan, 1933, Mineral Point; Kendall A. Nigli^ Madison; Edwin C. Pick, 1938, Madison. 
Spokoae 
John P. 0*Nrill, architect, received the Spokane 

Club award as the outstanding man of the year in 
the Spokane area. 
He received the-citation at a Universal Notre 

Dame Night meeting* of the Spokane club at 
Wright's diner, E 5613 Trent. Vincent P. Slatt, 
retiring president, made the presentation. 
^fr. Slatt said O'Neill was chosen because of his activities in church and civic affairs and for his work in designing Inland Empire buildings, includ­ing the St. Francis Xavicr church of Spokane, St. John B^tist churcJi of Dishman, \fount Carmcl hospital at' Colrillc, Sacred Heart church of Wil­bur, and Our Lady of Lourdes convent of Spokane. 
Officers elected by the club were Amonde R. Albo, president; Henry V. Brasnahan, vice presi­dent; Charles IVescott, secretary; and \^^lfiam H«n , treasurer. 
More than 40 alumni and their wives attended the meeting and observed the 20th anniversary of the death of Knutc Rockne, Notre Dame's famotis football coach. 
Rabbi Albert Plotkin of Temple Emanu-El, a Notre Dame graduate, was guest speaker. He >poke on "The Challenge of Notre Dame Men for World Democracy." 
S.W. Connecticut 
Superior Court Judge John T. Cullinon was hamed "Notre Dame Man of the Year" on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at the annual meeting of the Notre Dame Alumni club of Southwestern Connecticut. 
Judge CuUinan, who was graduated from the University in 1928, received a scroll at the meet­ing for his judicial achievements during the last year. 
Others who were cited at the session conducted in the Bamum Hotel as Notre Dame almnni all 
May-June, 1951 
over the world were marking "Universal Notre 
Dame Night," were Attomcy Daniel £. Brcnnan, 
Jr., Frank S. McGce, Democratic Town Chairman 
in Bridgeport, and John G. Molloy, past president 
of the Club. 
Judge CuUinan graduated in 1931 from Yale law 
school, was appointed to the Common Pleas court 
bench by Governor Hurley in 1941 and since 1950 
has been a member of the Superior Court to whicli 
he was named by Governor Bowles. 
Nicholas A. Lanesc, '37, was elected president of 
the club, succeeding Attorney Joseph McNamara, 
who presided at the meeting. 
Other officers are Frauds Herb, vice-president; 
James M. Drooey, treasurer; Paul Rooney, secre­
tary; and William F. O'Brien, director for three 
years. Jc^m J. Galla, commissioner of Public Wel­
fare, and John C. Redgate also are directors. 
James L. McGovem, K.S.G., was reelected honor­
ary president. 
Special guests included the Rev. John J. Walsh, 
C.S.C., Notre Dame faculty member now taking 
post ^aduate studies at Yale University; Brother 
Quentin, C.S.C., vice-president of Notre Dame 
high school. West Haven, Conn., and Brother 
Edgar, C.S.C., an instructor there. 
St. Joseph Valley 
Nearly one hundred members, guests and friends attended the Rockne Memorial Mass in Dillon Hall chapel which was followed with a communion breakfast in the faculty dining hall. Mr. Fred Steers, of Chicago, spoke briefly of his early asso­ciations with "Rock" and the group then motored to Highland cemetery where graveside services were conducted. Prayers were said by Father James Norton, C.S.C., and Frank Leahy placed floral wTeaths on the graves of former coaches Rockne, Nicholson and Keogan. 
Members of the club and their wives Joined other alumni clubs throughout America in cele­brating Universal Notre Dame night with a dinner in the faculty dining hall. Father Beaghan an­nounced Harold S. Vance, president and chairman of the board of the Studdiaker Corporation, as re­cipient of the award for "Notre Dame Man of the Year" for the St. Joseph Valley area. Mr. Vance was given the honor in recognition of his active leadership In the greater Notre Dame fund drive in 1950 when over $501,000 was added to the fund in only 37 days. 
Officers of the club for the coming year were in­stalled at the meeting. They include Robert A. Holmes, president; Dn-cre Flunkett, \'ice-president; Paul Fergus, treasurer, and Hany Koehlcr, secre­tary-. G. A. Farabau^ who was named honorao' president of the club, acted as installing officer. 
Brief talks were given by Edward Krausc, Direc­
tor of Athletes; John Jordan, new basketball coach, 
and by Prof, Paul Qung, of Seoul, Korea, who is 
teaching at the university. John G. Farabaugh, 
retiring president of the club, ser^'cd as toast­
jnaster. 
At the board meeting, preceding the Rockne ^lemorial Mass, the following four men xvere elected directors of the club for a three year term: Paul Boehm, Guy McMidiael, Gerald Hicke^- and 'William Voll. Devere Flunkett was elected to fill ^ e unexpired (one year) portion of Bob Sweeney's -term. 
Tri-Cities 
The Tri-City Club has been vcr>' active during Hie past few months. In February, Larry **Moon" Mullins announced that he was leaving our midst and was accepting the position of Athletic Director at Kansas State University. Since **Moon'* was Vice-president of the Club and one of the most active members of the Club, his leaving was a severe blow to the organization. 
**Moon" has had a very successful career as football coach at St. Ambrose College In Daven­port, lov.a and, in appreciation for his splendid services to the coII^e and to the community, a dvic banquet was held in his honor on February 27 in Da\'enport. George Vander Vcnnett repre­sented the Notre Dame Club at the dinner. 
The annual St. Patndc Day party was held at the RocJc Island Arsenal Country Club on the eve­ning of March 17. The wvcs of the Notre Dame men were the hostesses to a fine turnout of CIid> 
members and their guests. Mrs. Bill Bcmbrock, 
chairman, was assisted very capably by a commit­
tee consisting of Mesdames Jerry Arnold, Ed 
Meagher, Ralph Coryn, and Kelly Hiul. 
In addition to the meal and dance the evening 
was highlighted by a parade of Easter bonnets 
climaxed by A! Erskine's appearance before the 
spotlights in the winning creation. As could be 
expected, it was a great night for the Irish. 
The obser\'ance of Universal Notre Dame night 
was the next activity on the schedule. It was de­
cided to combine this obscr\*ance with the annual 
family Communion-breakfast on April 8. Approxi­
mately 80 of the members and their families re­
ceived Communion In a body at St. Joseph's 
Church in Rock Island, III. and then gathered at 
the Fort Armstrong Hotel for breakfast. Father 
Eugene Gould, Assistant Pastor of St. Joseph's, 
gave a brief inspirational talk to the group. New 
ofHcers were elected and installed in the business 
meeting that followed. 
Jerry Arnold, after receiving the Club's thanks for his guidance during the preceding year, turned over his duties to Frank McGture, '35. Jim Skel­ley, '21, was elected vice-president, and Cam Bracke, '42, was named treasurer. Jim Doyle, '42, continued In his position as Secretary for another year. 
The ne\%' officers held their flrst business meeting immediately and made plans to hold the family picnic on June 23. Gam Bracke was appointed chairman and named his committee of John Braet, Charles King, Jack MacDoiuieU, Leo Herbert, and Dr. Joe Kresock to assist him In making the an­nual outing the usual huge success. 
Washington, D. C. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Washington held one of the most successful dances of its history on De­cember 29th, 1950 at the Carlton Hotel. Over two hundred members of the Club, their wives, and their friends attended and all agreed It was a most enjoyable evening. The membership later extended a sincere vote of thanks to the Christmas Dance Committee headed by Dr. Jimmy Corcoran, *38. 
Lactarc Communion Sunday, March 4, 1951, was obser\*ed by members and friends who attended Mass and received Communion In a body at St. Patrick's Church, Washington. Celebrant of the Mass was Father V^cent J. McCauley, C.S.C., Club chaplain: the sermon was delivered by Bishop Patrick M. McCormick, Rector of Catholic Univer­sity. After this, breakfast was served at the Carl­ton Hotel where the main speaker was Hon. G-Howland Shaw, former Assistant Secretary of State and Laetarc Medalist in 1945. Following Mr. Shaw's address, a has relief of Bishop McCormick which was executed by Prof. Kormendi was pre­sented to the Bishop by the Club in behalf of the Univcrsit>-. The Committee for this aflfair was headed by Rudy Anderson, '47. 
On the evening of February 20th, at a meeting of the Club membership, officers for the new year were elected, and they are: President: Paul C. Tully, '39; Vice President: Edward J. O'Brien, Jr., '34; Secretary: EdM-ard E. Fenlon, '41; Treasurer: Robert Schellcnherg, '48; Board of Governors: Thomas J. Flynn, '35; Charles D . Gainer, '41. 
The Universal Notre Dxmie Night observance was billed as "The Club's treat to the membership" and at the end of the evening it was agreed that that word "treat" was much too mild. Committee chairman Howard Sdidlenbei^, '42, and his com­mitteemen are in line for congratulations for the arranging and promoting of an outstandingly suc­cessful affair. 
Afore than two hundred members and their friends attended the celebration which was stag and was held at the famed Touchdown Club of Washington. The principal scheduled speaker of the evening was the Honorable F. Joseph ("Jiggs") Donohue, newly-appointed Commissioner of the District of Columbia, and perhaps even better known for his successful prosecution of West Coast Communist Harry Bridges. Unscheduled, but none-the less much-s^preciated, were the remarks of Notre Dame's good friend. Arch Ward of Chicago, who happened to be In town and attended the affair. 
Afusical entertainment was provided by Gene Archer and Ed Mclntyrc, local radio and TV artists. Charley Batters, NBC iportscaster, added to the entertainment. The new officers were in­
stalled to end the formal proceedings of the eve­
ning. 
The next event on the Club program, the first 
under new president Paul Tully, and under the 
Chairmanship of Joe Kivlin, will be a Theatre 
Party on April 27th at the Gaiety Theatre for th 
presentation of "Oklahoma." There will be a 
"warm-iqi" before curtain time at the Raleigh 
Hotel. 
Former Club member Hal Roddy, '33, has an­
nounced that he has become the father of Carroll 
Anne Roddy, bom December 21, 1950 in the Amer­
ican Hospital, Paris, France. . . . Another '33er 
has become a father: Charley Ryan, whose son was 
bom on ^ril 4th. . . . The Washington Club's 
secretary has becinne an uncle again by virtue of 
the fact that his brother, Tom O'Brien, '40, of 
Pittsburgh, has announced the birth of a son, Ed­
ward F., on ^ril 4th. . . . And from this point 
on, the duties of the Club Secretary will be in the 
csqpable hands of newly-elected Ed Fenlon, '41. 
We would like to remind Notre Dame men visit­
ing Washington that the Club's weekly Iunc:heons 
are held each Tuesday at noon at the Touchdown 
Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D. C 
Yeungstown 
Bemie Crimmins, assistant coach, was the speaker at the Voungstown Club's Universal Notre Dame night dinner, held April 2 at the V.F.W. Hall, Girard, Ohio. Crimmins spoke on the Foundation program, and emphasized the importance of small gifts as well as large ones. He also stresses that there would be no publication of the amounts con­tributed, which might embarrass small givers. 
Turning to the football prospects, Crimmins pre­dicted the 1951 team would be "much stronger" than 1950. 
Rev. Glenn Holdbrook, principal of Ursullne High School, and Tom Cary,<^UrsuIine coach, were special guests. Don Bucci, quarterback at Voungs­town East High School, who has enrolled at Notre Dame, was introduced along with several other high school seniors who are considering entering Notre Dame. 
Rev. Robert Brengartner, assistant chaplain of the club, gave the invocation. Griff Allen, former cheerleader at Notre Dame, led the crowd of 100 men and women in Notre Dame songs. 
Ridiard A. ROey was toastmaster, and John R. Hagan was program chairman. Francis H. Hop­ktof, club presideiit, reviewed the year's activity and pledged the club to active support of the Alumni Association's 1951 aim for 100% partici­pation. 
C G. Frascr, '34, receiving from Gen. Omar Bradley a Freedoms Foundation Award for hh work in boy guidance and youth counseling 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

when he founded the St. Thomas More Student Center at Umversity of Iowa. 
Surviving are hii mother, Mrs. Henry Merwick, Sr., of Atchison, Kansas, and one sister and four brothers. 
Fifty Year Club 
From .Arthur T. SimpKm: 
"I acknowledge your letter of March 30th rela­tive to the 50 year Reunion June 8-9-10. A very kind and tfaou^tfu] remembrance which should be appreciated by the oldsters. 
"I doubt that I shall be able to accept. I have juit returned from Conncrsville where I went for burial of an Uncle. An appointment here pre­cluded taking an extra day or two, otherwise would have returned through South Bend and spent a few hours on the Campus. 
"Flans are in the making by the local Notre Dame Club (Dallas) for a large group of its mem­bers to journey up for the October 13th tussle with S.M.U. I hope to be among those present. 
"Thanks again for your kind invitation for June 
8-9-10." From John C. Burke, '14: "Raymoad G. 0*Malley, graduate of Notre 
Dame in the class of 1900, died Tuesday, March 6, in the Miller Hospital, St. Paul, Minn., and was bvried from St. Luke's church, Thursday, March 
8. He was 75 years old and Is survived by one brother, Frank T. O'Malley, a lawyer of Glencoe, Minn., and one sister, Margaret of St. Paul, with whom he made his home. The deceased ivas a bachelor, had practiced law in St. Paul since De­cember of 1900. He entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1893 and was there for se\-en years. He has two d^reeSf B.A. and LL.B. He did some teach­ing there also, in Greek, if I remember correctly. He was a devout Catholic to the end. He received a Fifty year medal from Notre Dame last year. He bad never been back since his graduation." 
Yours truly, John C. Burke, U.D., 1914 From Lows C. Beardslec (to Jim Armstrong) "I was very miich pleased to receive your letter 
relative to the class reunion on June B, 9, 10. "I enjoyed so much the meeting that I had the pleasure of attending, that it will give me a great deal of pleasure to attend this one if it is possible for me to do so. "Thank you for remembering me, believe mc." From Father Crumley: "Thank you for inviting me to meet the Fresh­men of the 50-Year Club. I'll make every effort to be present. "Recently I was asked whether Bernard Maloy (one "1") flid any preparatory work at Notre Dame back in the early 1900's. He probably re­sided in Brownson Hall. "He became a physician and is noted as an au­thority on medical jurisprudence. He has pub­lished at least two books on the subject. "I trust you and all the folks have gone through the long winter with few wounds and no remain­ing scars. Best wishes to you and them." 
THE RANKS THIN Louis C. M. Reed, '00, of New York City, an authority in foreign trade and the export business, died Mar. 27. Mr. Reed had attended the first reunion last June of the 50-Year Club. An author and world traveler besides his other activities, he had written several books on foreign trade and travelled extensively in Australia and the Malay States. He is survived by his wife. 
1897 
Elmer Jerome Murphy, a well known Catholic journalist for many years, died Apr. 19 in his home at St. Louis. At one time he wrote the Washington Letter for the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence News Service. 
Mr. Murphy retired in 1942 after 20 years as public relations representative for the United States Chamber of Commerce. He had also been a Wash­ington correspondent for the New York Herald. 
Hb wife, a son and daughter survive. 
1908 
Edgar Kobak, with farming interests in Georgia as well as a business consultant firm in New York^ has purchased an interest in The McDuffie Progress, a weekly of Thomson, Ga. 
May-June, 1951 
1910 
Since the death of Father Moriarty, on Feb. 14 in Washington, D. C , letters of appreciation of his unselfish work and fine character continue to be received by the Alumni Secretary. 
Printing them here would be rci>etitioo; but a resolution passed by the City Council of Cleveland, and shorn of its WHEREAS and early biographical sketch interruptions, it is reprinted here: 
"Father Midiael L. Moriarty was appointed Director of Catholic Charities for the Cleveland Diocese in June 1933, where his outstanding ad* ministrative abilities won for him further recogni­tion; and his educational attainments and high sense of duty are now lost to his religious associ­ates, his superiors and all his flock who had turned to him for guidance and spiritual comfort; 
"This community is made poorer by his passing as it was made richer by his presence; therefore, be it resolved that this council honor the memory of Rev. Michael L. Moriarty who has given such steadfast and constant service and who, by his de­votion to his priestly duties has made this com­munity a better place in which to live." 
A typical letter from one of Father Moriarty's classmates can stand for the others received. Leo Cyril McElroy, of E. Norwalk, Conn., wrote Jim Armstrong: 
"I got the sad news about Father Moriarty's death after a slight delay. I have been in bed for several days, subsisting mainly on penicillin, codein, aureomycin and similar delicacies. Mrs. McElroy knew I couldn't possibly go to Cleveland, so site didn't give me your telegram until today. 
"Morry was a fine classmate, a fine man and a fine priest. He was one of the best of the class of '10. Please convey my respects to the members of his family." 
1911 
40-YEAR REUNION JUNE 8, 9, 10 From Fred Steers: (to Jim .-Vrmstrong) 
"I appreciate receiving from you the list of the members of the doss of *llt with names and ad­dresses. I'm starting a roundup of the class for the personal letter. , 
"In the meantime, I request that you be so kind as to give us some publicity jn the ALUMNUS. 
"I have received word that Chester D, "Chet" Freeze passed away last Feb. 28. He left home that morning in the best of spirits and apparently in the best of health. He had a heart attack in his office and died shortly after. Chet was a fine char­acter and a loyal .Alumnus." 
1916 
From Grovcr F. Miller: "The 1916 Class will have about 25 at the 35th class reunion on June 8th, 9th and 10th. (Friday-Saturday and Sunday). "The following have already made rcsen-'ations: Bcckman W. Turner Flynn Krajewski Fries LaFortune Rev. Haggerty McLaughlin Hayes McCourt Henry Maloney Keifer Mooney 
G. Miller Smith 
Hugh CarroU Carr—maybe Humphrey^maybe 
1919 
Father Mark Merwick, former prior at St. Bene* diet's Abbey and former pastor of Sacred Heart Church in West Achison, Kansas, died recently in St. Margaret's Hospital, Kansas City, Kansas. 
Father Merwick was ordained in 1921 and be­came' a professor at St. Benedict's College, Atchi­son. He held various teaching positions until 19t3, 
1921 
3a.YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 8, 9, 10 
RUBIO IS COMING! That's about as good a way to kick off a reunion column as I know of. Here's his letter: "Dear Dan, For 29 years I have been dreaming of returning to Notre Dame, but that was as far as it went. "Your letters and following information, the hope of seeing Lally, Nocm Baurry, Bill Foley, Jim OToolc, Rcy de Castro, Bill White, Charlie Davis, Leo KeUy, Joe Braady and a host of others of '21, has made the desire imperative. "God willing, June 8th will find me amoung thfKe of the class answering present. Sincerely yours, Ing. Rafael Garci»>Rubio Escribano." (by Duffy) IF RUBIO CAN COME FROM CUBA, WE'LL WALK FROM WAUKEGAN. Mony Stairett wants to get into the act, too. He writes: "My Dear Breaker, thanks for all the reunion info. May make it if loganberry juice prices con­tinue to soar, and they give us poor downtrodden postmasters a raise .. . would sure like to chin with Kasper, Cusick and Tex Holton again for 
* sure. 
"In your next, let me know who are prospective arrivals in June. You are doing a swell job, and big results seem inevitable... but keep swinging. Are you touring America this season? If so why not see Puget Sound, Port Townsend. We have a great club group of 55-60, with 20-25 active. Best wishes to all." 
From Doc HeimaBn: 
"You are certainly doing an imaginative job for 
the round-up. W. O'Kccfe should be interested. 
By the way, why are there 2 asterisks after his 
name—or is that another Walter O'Keefe? 
"Could you, by chance, smoke out Charlie Mor­
rison—properly named Charles Welstead. He has 
faded completely. Could you send some kind of 
announcement' or request "along the cable" that 
would bring him into the sunlight. 
"Tell him Jolm, Newman Clancy and I will be 
locating for him. 
"And tell that Clancy that the verse he attempts 
smells very much like Brother Cyprian. 
'^ y contribution to the meeting will be the 
scrap book trom the news stand, which has been 
gathering dust for many, many years. 
"I well remember as a student seeing the 'old 
guys' come back for a visit, and thinking to my­
self *How in the hell could a guy live long enough 
to be out of college 30 years.' 
"Believe me, now I know. 
"P.S. We will arrange details of our trip later. 
I have always envied anyone maluAg a 300 mile 
trip in a Cadillac. Now I expect to have that 
thrHl." 
Harold Foley, Vancouver, B. C. 
"There is a good possibility that I'll be in the vicinity of Notre Dame at Commencement. If so, I'll certainly be present for the activities. 
"Thank you for reminding me about the matter. 
"With kindest regards and best wishes." 
Jim Hnxford, Syracuse: 
"I am planning to attend cdass reunion this year and also to attend the graduation exercises on June 3, 1951 as my son, James David Huxford, is a member of the 1951 Class. I hope that he is sue* cessful in passing all his final examinations. He is in the Marine Reserve and is called to active duty on June 30, 1951. He has reccK-ed two deferments to finish hu college work. He was originally called to active service on November I, 1950. 
"I am writing my old friend. Bill Lawless, to see if I can get him back for our class reunion. 
"The Class of 1921 is surely indebted to you for your faithful service and your interest m keeping the records. I appreciated very much receiving the roster of the present addresses of our class­mates. 
''Hope to see you in June." .\ change of pace: Ji a Hmdbrd writes Bill Lawless. 
17 

Fr. Louis Thornton handing Fred Digby his 
"Year Man" award in New Orleans. Left Peru—South .•\merica, not Indiana—mustered seventeen alunmi and two pennants. 
Club President Alickcy McMahon 

.•\t Central New York—John Mc\uliffe. Monsignor Joseph B. Toomey. Public Relations Director Ray Donovan (right) sneaks a peek at Apple-Club President John Terry and Secretary Bob McAuIiffc ton. Others are Neil McCarthy, Ray Dohr and Bob Bernard. 
Arch Ward receives  a  plaque in Washing­ 
TUC Dill  ton  from  new  president  Paul Tully  (left)  
In Manhattan—Club Secretary Al Perrine takes a look  as Club President Jim McGoldrick  and retiring president Tom Flynn.  
gladhands Columnist George Sokolskv al the Biltmorc.  

Another outgoing president—^Jim Simmons, of Dallas and Jim Walsh, with his "Man "Top of the Park'" was the scene of Denver's Universal Night Dinner of the Year" Scroll. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Charleston, West B. G. Virginia honored a member of the Alumni Association's 30­Year Club, Arthur P. Hudson, '95, (second from left). Club Officers with Mr. Hudson are Don Leis, '42; Dave Moncreif, '41 and Mike J. O'Connor, '36.  
Father Williani Botzum. C. S. C , spoke at .•Vkron's Universal Night observation. With him are Ed Barch, Charles Greene, Tom .Anier, Carl Swisler, Jr., and Bill Ahern.  

English Professor (and author) Richard Sullivan received the Chicago Club's Lay San Diego installed its new officers at Universal Notre Dame Night. Left to right, they are: Faculty .'Vward at the Universal Night ob­
Ugo Rossi, Winfield Day, Francis J. Davis and Frederick R. Stubbins. servation in Chicago's Drake Hotel. 
Sports Publicity Director Charlie Callahan, (bow tie, standing) was speaker for the Calumet Club's Observation. 
May-fune, 1951 
"I have rcccK'cd notice from Dan W. Duffy in regard to the 30th year reunion of the Class of 1921 and I am planning to attend. My son, James David Hnzford, I expect, will gradaute in the Class of 1951 on June 3. 1931. 
"I was back for the 25th reunion and we had a fine time and hope you are planning to attend this year. I sure would like to sec you again and talk over some of our experiences, particularly in regard to our operating motion picture machines at Notre Dame. Do you remember the special show wc put on at St. Mar>''5? 
''For the past twenty-seven years I have been with the public utility in S>Tacuse 5uper\'ising in­dustrial power sales. The work is ver\* interesting and, as you know, the use of electricity is changing and improving rapidly. 
"So. make up your mind to be at the reunion and let me hear from you." 
Lawless couldn't resist: (to your sccrctarx") "Thanks ver>' much for your letter of Fcbruar>­15 reminding me of our 30lh annivcrsarv- and re­union at Notre Dame this coming June. Inciden­tally, you did not mention tlie exact date when ac­tiWtics will start. Please let me have this date. 
"I also received a letter from Jim Huxford who is now in Syracuse. New York, saying he expected to attend the reunion and urged that I do the same. I am most happy to advise that unless something unexpected happens, I shall be there for 
.this reunion. I have never been back on the cam­pus since my graduation and 30 years is a long time to stay away from such wonderful traditions as those I have learned to revere over these many years. 
"Since leaving scliool of course a lot of water has gone over the dam and has taken me and my family to many distant places, although I am very happy to report that for the past 20 years I have been successfully employed by the DuPont Com­pany, and for the past 10 years have been here at Waynesboro, Virginia, in charge of engineering and construction. In my travels I have run into quite a few Notre Dame men and have had the pleasure of employing several. 
"In the attached envelope I am enclosing a copy of one of the Company's publications entitled 'Bet­ter Living.' Please refer to Page 4 and you can sec that I have participated in the more recent de­velopments of the Company. 
"Please let me know for certain when the re­union begins so that I will have no excuse for not ' being able to make satisfactory plans." 
With an assist from and thanks to Arch Ward's "Wake of the News" column, some news on the 
Wittereid family: 

"Cadet Feter ^^^tte^ad, who was a star swim­mer at St. George Hi ^ Sdool in Evanston, re­cently set an academy record in the 200 yard back stroke at West Point (Sic!) while competing for the Freshman squad against the Princeton '\'car­lings .. . this feat. makes the youngster eligible for a major letter. . , . Only two Army freshmen ha\-e been so bonoFcd in the school's history." 
And a direct assbt from George himself: 

"Get back in the groove and don't address your letters to me as 'Junior.' Brandy will never let me live that one down. 
"Your note together with the reprints of the let­ters, from our old pals was good nourishment, far better than the liquid or solid form, especially at this stage of the game. 
"I was surprised that Larr\- Morgan or Bill Allen didn't write, as they both promised they would advise you we were planning on being 'On Hand' for our Thirtieth. Was glad to note our Senator was on the job with an affirmative vote. He had to get permission from his grandchildren. 
"Now that the Kcfauver Committee has quieted dou-n, no doubt Brandy and Kelly will remove their disguise, get into their Patent Leather Button Shoes (Lay out the Record Book, for expenses) and arrange a trip West, to sell a Coal ^fine or an Evening Broadcast. (No corned beef) 
"Wc are a few, and after this next five year hitch, the older members like myself will be even fewer. Too bad too.! When you look back to the leveling influence, I always exerted on Leon, the Marble Champion, Lemonade and Fives, to say nothing of the Watermelon and Tomato Patches, just east and north of old Carticr's Field. 
"Enjoyed our trip east, Dan, even tho' those 

hills between your town and West Point were aw­
fully slippery* and loaded with Ice and Snow. 
20 
,"X,ook fonsard to a fine time with the gang from 
George C. Wtteried 
"P.S.: "Remind everyone to say a few prayers 
for Frank Cougfalin. He is vcr>- sick."' 
1921." 
Al Schmitt (Decatur, Ind.): 
"Thank you for your letter of March 17th indi­cating the program for the Class reunion commcn­ing Friday, June 8th. 
"Be assured I will be there, if not in Mexico, to visit with my classmates, whom I have not seen for thirty years." 
Duke (Wilfred J.) Riley-Jim Handy, Detroit: 
"It was grand to have your letter of February* 16 announcing the dates for our 30th Annivcrsarv* Class Reunion of Notre Dame. I've been out of town much of late which explains my delay in replying. 
"Such negligence on my part, however, is no in­dication that either my interest or enthusiasm is dampened. Believe me, I'll be there—the good Lord willing. 
"Indeed, it's been a long time since I've looked forward v%ith such eagerness to anything. You see, I have about completely lost track of everyone in the class of '21. For that reason, I anticipate re­newing those fine associations which for so long now have been no more than mellow memories to me. 
"It's grand to hear from you and to have copies of those letters from so many of the class. "So—put me down, Dan. Already I have June 8­9-10 circled in red on my desk calendar." 
Harrv- Morency (Boulder, Colo.): 
"I received and acknowledge your recent letters. Nothing would give me more pleasure than to at­tend the class reunion. 
**Hovvever, it will be entirely impossible for me because I am no longer able to travel verv- much due to poor health. 
"Give my regards to the class and all my good wishes for a most enjoyable meeting." 
The Clipper, Lafayette College 
"So you had trouble with my v*Titing—I am re­turning the answers with a correction that must be made. 
"Sure sorrv-I will be about in Phoenix, Arizona, when all of you felIov%-s in your anecdotage as­temble. 

"Greetings and best wishes for an epi-pleasant get together." 
Cy Ca^KT (Aberdeen, So. Dak.): "This will acknowledge your recent letters in which you gave information on otur class reunion. 
"With you going to all this trouble preparing a list of the class and telling us of the events planned, we all should certainly make every effort to be there and congratulate our Secretary on such dili­gent service through all these years. 
"At this time I cannot be positive—but it is sure­ly my intention to be at Notre Dame about June 7. 
"Observing the class list, you have a Walter O'Kecfe listed as 'unclaimed.' Isn't this the fa­mous Walter O'Kecfe who is the M.C. on 'Double or Nothing'? His address would be c/o National Broadcasting Company, Hollywood, California." 
Ralph Sjofaerg, (Kewanee, III.): 
"Just a few words in answer to your letter of March 17, that I definitely plan to attend the 1951 reunion of our Class. From the list of replies which you included with your letter, it looks as though the class of 1921 will be well represented. 
"It has been my pleasure to sec and \isit with quite a number of the boys of our time, Dan, at the Notre Dame home football games. Of course there is still quite a large number I haven't been able to see, and am rather curious to sec vvhat the changes have been in them for over a period of thirty years. 
"It will be nice to see you again, Dan, as well as the rest of the fellows who plan to attend the reunion, and until that time, my sincerest and warmest wishes to you and your family." , 
Joe Ticmey (New York): 
"I have your letter of March 17 on commence­ment. You picked a good date for one Irishman to write another. I expect to be able to attend commencement as I have to be in Detroit on Thursday, June 7th. Last reunion time, our 25th, in 1946, was young Joe's graduation date. He is over in East Pakistan with the Holy Cross Mission Band. My second son, Tom, finishes his Junior year this June and there is a third boy still to start in '53, 
"I shall enjoy seeing you and the rest of the boys. 
"P.S. You might note that my address has been changed to 1440 Broadway." 

Dean and Mis, Manion got Bob Hope (the necktie) to hold stiU for a picture on Pat's visit to the movie lot. To Hope's left are Mr. and Mis. Ed Clumiiiigliain. Seated is "Judge Carberry" with Producer Paul Jones 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Joe Tillman, (Toledo): 
"Many thanks for your letters of February 16th 

and March 17th. 
"I expect to be out of town for several weeks 

and won't do any letter-writing until I return from 
Florida; But in the meantime let me assure you 
that I will be at the June reunion if at all possible. 
Incidentally, where wilt most of the boys make 
their headquarters, that is, what hotel? 
"I see one of my old side-kicks, Mark Zimmerer, 

will be in attendance. That will be a treat—re­
hashing some of the things that happened over 
thirty years ago. 
*'It was nice hearing from you.'* 

Dave Hayes: "In response to your inquiry regarding the re* union, would say that I hope to be in Notre Dame for my son Martin's graduation, which will be the fourth or fifth of June. Will tr>' to stay over for the reunion if possible. "Hope everything is going along well with you. Best wishes.'* 
Joe McGraw (Tulsa): 
"Thank you for your communication regarding 

Class Reunion at Notre Dame on June 8, 9 and 
lOth. At this time it is vcr>'" improbable that I 
can be there because on June 8 I have a son 
graduating from the grade school in St. Louis, 
which is vcr>' important to him and he wants his 
Nfother and Father present. 
"However, I shall keep this in mind and if there 

is a possible chance, I will be happy to be there." 
Vtnce Nagel (Louisville): "Thanks most sincerely for your letters remind­ing me of the class reunion. "While it is impossible for mc to make a definite commitment at this time nevertheless I assure you that I shall exert every effort to attend. In fact I am looking forward with a great deal of pleasure to meeting the old classmates. "With everj' best wish and kindest personal re­gards.** 
Bill Purccll, (Kansas City, Mo.): 
"Wish to advise you that I am with the Class of 

1922 instead of 1921. Desired to give you this in­
formation for the purpose of getting the records 
correct. I appreciated your letters and the list of 
1921 class members. Many of the names brought 
back memories. My brother in law, Eugene Van­
denBoom—Parkville, Mo., is a member of 1921 
class. I believe that he would enjoy the reunion. 
His son, Eugene, Jr., is a member of Class of 1950. 
"Hope that you will have a real reunion in June. 

Best regards." 
And lastly, a solemn note for our reunion. To 

remind us that there will be a Class Mass, for the 
repose of the souls of our deceased classmates. 
Clyde Walsh's widow writes: 
"My dear Mr. DufTy: 
"Today I received your letter to Clyde post­

marked March 18—just exactly four months since 
his death. I've been a coward about writing let­
ters, but somehow I have to write this—I think 
Clyde would want me to. 
"I want you to know and to be able to tell his 

friends what happened—and I hope you will all 
feel that he is there with you—because that's the 
only way I can go on, by reminding myself over 
and over that he is with us. 
"In 1949 Clyde enrolled in the school of Banking 

which is a two week course, the last two weeks in 
August for three years at Madison. Last year while 
there duiing the second week he was very miser­
able and told me on the 'phone that he was hav­
ing some severe sinus trouble. By the time I met 
him in Chicago at the end of the term he was 
violently ill and attributed it to the medicine they 
gave him. But after getting home, to our own 
doctor and his regular treatment, and getting worse 
instead of better the doctor sent him to Wesley 
Memorial for diagnosis—which was Brain Tumor. 
He had surgery on Sept. 18—5'/^ hours. But the 
doctor gave me great hope. Then suddenly in early 
Nov. it began to grow ^ain—it had not been be­
nign as they first thought. This time the growtli 
must have been even more rapid than the first— 
for the end came at 5:25 on Nov. 18th. 
"Clyde did not know what the nature of his 

illness was. By the time the diagnosis was' made 
he was much too ill to tell him. Afterwards we 
waited until he would ask—which he never did. 
Hts mind was very clear and his memory of the 
past was perfect. 
May-June, 1951 
Rev. Charles Shecdy, C. S. C, Head of the Rcl^iion Department (center) receivied the Schenectady GluVs Foundation check from President Bill Leonard, Jr. Others in the picture are Fr. Ed O'Malley, '34, John Huether and Rev. John J. Finn. 
"My loss is so great that I find it difficult to be thankful for anything. Yet I could not ask that Clyde live, and have that brilliant mind clouded even a little. Also I'm very grateful that there were no indications over a long period as they tell me there so often are—lack of coordination, loss of memory, etc. On August 19th when the boys and I told him goodbye he was as normal as could be. 
"We have two boys, Robert was 13 in March and William will be 9 this month. They are too young to lose their Daddy—but oh, they have such a fine example. I hope they will both be Notre Dame graduates some day—and will always have the loyalty and enthusiasm which their Daddy had. 
"I have taken an apartment in Dwight because there are more advantages for the children here. AVe would be pleased any time any classmate of Clyde's was near here to have him call on us. 
"Won't you all please remember him in the Masses for the Class of *21—though of course I feel that he reached the goal, we are all striving for, at once.*' 
James F. Harding, Chicago: "I have been receiving the very interesting cor­respondence in regard to the 5 year reunion of Notre Dame graduates which sounds awfully good to me. '*! finished high school in the class of 1918, left school for a short time for the service; returned, and spent 1919 and 1920 there, — then left school. Really, my class was 1922. Therefore, I do not believe I am eligible for the class reunion which is being held this coming June. "If, by any chance, you are ever in our great city, I would like to have you stop in to sec me. You can usually find me at our general offices at 21 South Wabash Avenue.** 
Larry Morgan, Chicago: "Received your letter in reference to our class reunion this coming June. "I am planning on being present and hope to be able to induce a few of the players from Chicago to accompany me. Nice hearing from you.'* 
1922 
Men of '22 lost one of their best friends on this earth when Father James Gallagan, C.S.C., was called to his reward December 16, at Notre Dame. Father Jim was one of our beloved chap­lains who prized most highly his honorary mem­bersfaip in our class bestowed upon the occasion of one of our anniversary gatherings. He delighted all with hb biendly ways, and was always near his best when in the presence of *22 men or in con­versation about them. 
Another of our beloved chaplains. Father Patrick Haggcrty, was with him when he died and in­toned the last prayers. Father Jim had already prepared his Christmas cards for mailing—some­thing he never failed to do, so Father Pat sent them on their way—the last Christmas greetings from a wonderiul friend. 
During our first year at N.D. in 1918, Fatlier Gallagan was prefect and religious instructor in Badin Hall under Father McGarry. Later he be­came prefect of discipline at the University. Other appointments were to St. Thomas in St. Paul, Min­nesota, and St. Edward's in Austin, Texas. 
He did parish work in South Bend and Water­town, Wisconsin. The latter was his last active assignment. All class members are urged to re­member Father Jim frequently in their prayers, as he has so often remembered you during life. We trust he soon will become one of our strongest ad­vocates in heaven. May he rest in peace! 
Our sympathy is extended to Mrs. Thomas S. McCabe over the death of her beloved mother, Mrs. Corbett. May the Good Lord grant her eter­nal rest! 
Congratulations are in order for our classmate, Clarence **Rit*' Manjon, Dean of Law at NJ>., for a masterful job done with the writing of his latest book "The Key to Peace,** published by the Heri­tage Publishing Co., Chicago. This book has bad great acclaim from the American Legion who are using it in their Americanization program, and from . leaders of various religious denominations. George Sokolsky, the columnist, paid it a fine tribute in his nevrspa4>er column. 
We received a nice letter from D. Worth Clark who indicates he is maintMning law offices in his home city of Boise, Idaho, in addition to handling some business in Washington, D.C. Worth was ill for a time with virus pneumonia. 
Tom McCabe reporU he saw Cy Kellet in Cleve­land the night before the Navy game last fall. Also, he saw Walter StoUdrdcr, Jim Martia and Didt Nash at the Indiana game. Tom and 'Sb%. McCabe: motoried along^ the. ^>palachian Mountain range ~vzsituig' Nashville, Chattanobgaj Asheville, ' Roanoke, Winchester, Harpers Ferry, the campuses of Washingtcm and Lee and University of Virginia, Monticello, and Antietam. 
Christmas card from Harold and Lucille Weber 
21 
expresses the hope that our 30th reunion gathering in 1952 be held at the Weber home on Diamond Lake, as planned for our 25th in 1947, but can­celled due to cold and rainy weather. ^Vc surely do thank the Webcrs for their fine offer, and are certain our arrangements comrnittee, when formed, will give consideration to it. 
We have in our class two eminent judges of the Superior Court in their respective home states. One is Hon. AI Scott of the California superior court. The other is Hon. James Murphy of the su­perior court of Connecticut. Both men have estab­lished fine reputations for handling of judicial matters in their respective areas. This particular item concerns Judge Jun Xfurphy wlio writtts ver>' interestingly as follows: 
'*As I am more or less out of touch with men of 
'22, I seldom have anything of interest to contrib­

ute to the secretary's column in the .ALUMNUS, 
**Howcver, two weeks ago I had a ratlier inter­

esting incident. A new panel of jurors was sum­
moned from the county for ser\'ice in Bridgeport 
at the winter session of the court. Among those 
responding was one Arthur E. Shea of Grcenwicli. 
'*TTic name did not strike a rcsponsii-e chord in 

my mind and when he advanced to the bench and 
asked to be excused temporarily because of the 
work in which he is engaged wh\i A.T. & T. Co., 
I did not recognize him. Before leaving the court 
room he stepped up to the bench and indicated 
there was something familiar about my countenance 
and he asked one of the attendants to identify me. 
''.•\fter a handshake and a few words he left but 

as he is due to return for j'ury duty in March, I 
am sure that we will be able to get together and 
perhaps he u-ill be able to bring me up to date 
on some of the members of the class. 
'"As Art and his brother Bob were such in­

grained Hoosiers, I had no expectation that I 
would Bnd him in the Nutmeg State at this time. 
**I trust that before long the opportunity will present itself for further contact with other men of the class. Give my best to any of the fellows that you hear from." 
A Christmas note from Mrs. Helen Gaffne>% widow of our belox'cd classmate, C>"ril, indicates that son Bernard is now a j'unior at Vale. .Another son, Brian, who is now a senior at .Abbey Prep School, hopes to enter Xotre Dame ne.\t fall to fol­low in the Dad's footsteps. 
We arc indebted to Robert GalloMay, attorney, of Silver Creek. N.Y., for sending us the present address of Hugfa T. Gibbons. Hughle is now re­siding in Seattle, Washington. TIic absent minded professor mislaid his own copy of tlie street ad­dress after sending the original to the alumni office 
at Notre Dame. 
Our congratulations to Father Joseph Rick, C.S.C., of the nearby class of I92I, who was re­cently appointed Prowncial of the Holy Cross Order in East Pakistan, India. Father Joseph Tierae\-, C.S.C., son of Joseph Tiemey, I92I, re­nouned student^ story teller and old fashion cycling expert (remember Cartter Field exhibition in early '20's) is now in East Pakistan with Father Rick. 
1925 
From John R>-an, 1926 Class Secretary: Dear Friends: 
".As you can see the Class of '26 celebrates its 25th Anniversar>' this year. Speaking as its secre­tary*, and personally, they were, and are, a grand bunch of fellows. We arc looking fonvard to Three Great Days. 
**.And there are six other classes that have a grand bunch of fellows. Many of tis knew many of your classes during the one, two, or three years we spent together on the campus. There were some fine friendships that crossed class lines. And there were many of us who had brothers or other relatives in your classes. 

"So it seems to me that our reunion would be more complete if those of your class who are back at school at reunion time would make '26 head­quarters your headquarters. 
"As there was an April 28th deadline for the May-June -ALUMNUS it may be that your copy has already been sent in. If not, wc of *26 would appreciate your passing along this inWtation via your column., If you have sent your copy, perhaps you could send a little addendum to John Bums. 
"We certainly would like to sec our friends of your classes. Best regards." John Ryan From John P. Hurle>': 
.An orchid to Ed Ashe! I mailed fifteen cards to members of the Class of 1925 pleading for news. TTiis was the only response. *'AVhere are tlie other fourteen?'^ Come, come boys . . . let's hear from you! 
Your secretary had a nice \"isit with Jim .Arm­strong and his charming wife last week. Jim was in Monroe, Michigan, for Universal Notre Dame Night. He tells me that the local chairman of last year's 1925 reunion. Bill Ccmcx-, did a com­mendable job of serving at the St. Joe Valley Mass for Rocfcnc. Bill docs a swcH j'ob on whatever he tackles. 
Let's have some news! This comes from Ed Ashe: 
"Dear John: 
"Tlianks for your card of March 23th; u-ould 
have answered it sooner but decided to wait until 
after Unti^rsal Notre Dame Night when I ivould 
poss3»ly run into some of the old boys having a 
night out. 
''Father John Lyndi was on hand to offer grace for the dinner and enlighten us with a few words of wisdom. Father John is located at Notre Dame High at Sherman Oaks where he is liked by the faculty and students alike. 
**Bioo Vffgd was chairman for the evening and 
really put on a good dinner followed by some ex­
cellent entertainment. Frank Fay, star of "Har­
vey" on the Ncu- York stage, acted as M.C. and 
introduced such guests as Ralph Dunkie, Eddie 
Garr, Wallace Ford and Irene Stanley, Jr., who 
entertained with songs just like her mother before 
her. 
**Dr. Bill Makmy was there with his dad. Dr. 
WiUtam. Sr. Vemoa "Tex" Rickard of '24, look­
ing as youthful as ever, was on hand. 

"I was in San Diego last week and called on J. Hayes Fnllcr. Hayes has been laid up several months with a disc out in his back. On my pre-Wous trip in February I called on him at the hos­pital where they had him in traction with a ten pound weight on each leg and in plenty of pain. He was up and around last week and is able to carry on his insurance business again. 
**Bill Ocmctts is living in the same parish with 

me but as yet I haven't seen him. I tried to reach 
him on the phone this evening to report on his 
activities. I understand that he is also in the in­
surance business. 
'*As for myself, I am in the aircraft sales busi­ness, specializing on electrical equipment. I have also gone into the manufacturing business, special­izing on electric switches for airplanes, radar, etc. I plan to make a Rying trip east late this month or early in l^fay. My tentative plans call for a stay in Washington and Dayton, Ohio. 
"John, this isn't much of a report but it will have to do {or the present. I know that I have missed se\-eral of the boys located here; as I have no information on them at present I will have to report on them at a later date. 
"Please remember me to all of the boys in the Toledo area and will be glad to hear from any of the Class of '25 if they have any occasion to visit the West Coast. Sincerely, Ed." 
1926 
Class Secretary John R^-an writes: Those of you whose memories go back as far as the Januar>--Februar>- isuc of the ALUMNUS will recall that your secretary started our column in that issue by a great beating of the bosom over the feeling that he had misplaced a letter from one of you fellows. Our remarks went on to ask the fellow whose story was missing to send in the car­bon copy of the letter. So, Tiao Pt^iiani did! But not trithout a few choice remarks about letting he "stew in my own stew and keep on wondering whose letter was lost." And just before Tino's letter came in I found let­ters which had come in too late for the November-December issue so it's a wonder I didn't get scorchers from Vincc Goulet, Erwin LcBlanc, Gerry McGinley, and Vic Yawman whose letters should have been in the January-February issue. 
But before wc go any further we want to take this spot to thank Dr. Bert Cousi n for moving from St. Louis to Minneapolis. If it hadn't been his letter to the Alumni office gi\^ng his change of address our class would have been skunked in the March-April bsue. As it was Armstrong and Burns scooped your secretary. Or maybe I don't read the ALUMNUS closely enough and thus missed the deadline on that issue. 
So here goes for the "overlooked" stories. 

Using Un o Poggiaiu's original letter rather than the carbon we learn that Tino first worked for tiie Pcimsylvania Department of Highways then went to the construction department of the Nc^v York Central Railroad. He skips the "experiences" of the d^ression and picks up his story again in 1933 with the Indiana Highway Department for whom he designed bridges. 
In 1940 he became a member of the Flood Con­trol Commission and also went into business for himself. In June 1942 Tino submitted a thesis and put on a cap and gown, w*alkcd down the steps of 
San Antonio's Man.of-thc>Ycar Award to Joseph Menger was accepted by his brother Henry. Ed Conroy, Club President (right) made the presentation. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Philadelphia awarded two Man-of-thc-Year Citations, perhaps prompted by Mr. Leahy's use of the spIit-T formatioiis. Joe Cattie, outgoing Ctub president (left) handed ccrti6cates to new President Cliff Prodehl and Leonard Tose, at Leahy's left. Rev. Theodore M. Hcsburgh^ Executive Vice-President of the University was guest speaker. 
tlic Main Building and received a C.E. degree. So, it looks like Tino has it on the rest of us. Come 1967 and he can celebrate another Silver Anniversary. 
In the latter part of '42 our young graduate started getting his personal afTairs in order and by the first of M3 was in the Navy in command of a Seabee Battalion. He spent 24 months in the Pacific doing all those things which won such re­nown for the Na\"y. 
Even an old chair-borne Army Engineer admits the Seabecs were good. Returning from service Tino set up a consulting engineering firm in In­dianapolis which keeps him quite busy. He sees a Sew of the Indianapolis gang and on a couple of eastern trips has seen Bob Graham who is with the Pennsylvania Highway Commission in York, Pa. 
For you fellows who will have sons at N.D. in '53, '59 and *65 he suggests that you tell ihcm to look up the Poggiani girls at St. ^Iar%-*s; Connie, Lucinda, and Pam, now 13, 9 and 3 respectively. We'll talk that over with Tino at reunion. 
Back on November 7th Vince Goulet wrote from Rock Island, 111., that from 1926 to 1935 he was with Crucible Steel Company and since then has been with Universal Cyclops Steel Corporation. Your secretary used to see Vince once in a while in Chicago but since 1948 he has been in Rock Is­land where he opened a midwest sales office for his company. 
Vince was married at the Log Chapel in 1929. His son, Alexander Vincent, had been recalled to the Marines shortly before ^Viocer^wolc... His letter ended' by saying he expected to be back for our reunion. 
Another of our holdover letters (notice wc ha\c gotten away from the "overlooked or misplaced" idea) came from Erwin LcBlanc of Beaumont, Texas. His letter was dated November 21st. Since graduation Envin has been with Beaumont Rice Mills which has several N.D. men connected with it. 
Erwin is married and has two sons and a daugh­ter. He now and then sees a Notre Dame man (aside from the local crowd) as they pass through Beaumont. He has managed to sec the N.D. games played in Texas, At the time of his letter he hoped to be back for reunion but his post card reply to a recent inquiry sent to the class indicates he will not be able to make it. We'll miss you, Erwin. 
Another November letter comes from Gerry Mc-Gtnlcy of Ogallala, Nebraska. Gerry is practicing law in Ogallala, is married (Log Chapel. 1936) and has an eleven-ycar-oId daughter, Maureen. Notre Dame grads being scarce in his area Gerry seldom sees any classmates. He does report that Urban (Si) Simon is practicing law in Missoula, Afont. Gerry says to count on him for Reunion. 
Then Wc come to the last of the misplaced let­ters. On the letterhead of Yauman Afetal Products, lnc.» RfKhester, N. Y., Vic Yawman reports that he has been in the metal stamping business since graduation and since the death of his father four­teen years ago has owned and operated his firm. 
May-June, 1951 
Vic was married just before our graduation and reports that his son, Vic, Jr., N.D. '50, is now in the Army, 
His daughters. Joan and Virginia, attend New­ton College of the Sacred Heart, Classes of '52 and '54. After the death of his wife in 1938 Vic re­married and now has another daughter, Judith .Anne, a fifth grader. Through the years Vic has seen Bob Andres, Gil Scbaefer, Ray Downcs, Lany Groden and Leo Mead. He expects to be with us in June. 
Now for the current letters. Comes an announce­ment card from Edw-ard Duggan to say that the firm of Duggan. Shaw and Hughes will have Ed as its tax specialist at 744 Broad St., Newark, N. J.. and the other partners will practice law at 24 Commerce St., Newark. 
Among the names for the mailing of cards in February' was that of Tony Roxas. Knowing that the card would not reach him in time for a reply to that issue I held it out and several weeks ago sent an air mail to Manila, receiving a very-prompt reply. He condensed a lot of life into a few paragraphs. 
In partnership with his brothers he has been con­cerned with the growth of sugar cane, its process­ing, refining and sale. Of course there were three unforgettable years, as Tony says, until our troops landed on one of their sugar estates about 50 miles south of Manila. 
About the only classmate Tony has seen is Don 
Halptn ivho came riding on a water wagon a few 
weeks after the liberation. _It's your secretary's 
guess that Don didn't stay on that wagon long 
after he and Tony got together. Tony is married 
and has a 12-ycar-oId daughter and a 9-year-old 
son. He and his wUc visited N.D. in 1947 but 
Tony sa>-s he will not be able to get back for Re­
union. 
From Chicago Jim Ronan answers a card he got 
some time ago with an apology (or the delay. No 
apologies accepted but thanks extended for the letter. After leaving N.D. Jim attended Loyola University Law School and has been in general law practice in Chicago since 1932. Recently he took on the responsibility of representing the peo­ple of Illinois as a member of the Illinois Indus­trial Commission. 
Jim reports that four young Ronans keep the old man's nose to the grindstone. Peg, the eldest and only girl, is a Junior at St. Xavier College, Jim, Jr., is a sophomore Pre~\Ied student at N.D., and John is a freshman architect at N.D., while Martin, the ll-ycar-old is sweating out the time until he can get there. We'll see Jim at Reunion. 
His letter carries information on another Jim— Jimmy Stack. He enclosed a portion of a meeting notice of insurance adjusters at which the speaker was listed as Dr. James K. Stack. 
Mike Curry's )etter of February' 12th expressed the hope that he could make the reunion in spite of seasonal operations but his card was returned a few days ago indicating . he would not be able to get back in June. That is Mike*s busy season for be is a district supervisor' with the Hanson County Soil Conservation District at Alexandria. So. Dak. 
After ten years with Stoddiakcr Mike retnmed to South Dakota's high winds and has been at­tempting to hold down its soil ever since. Mike h married. Through the years he has mangled to see a few classmates the most recent of which was Bob Doraa who vbited him last summer. He says he has not seen an Indiana sky since 1936. Perhaips we can send hnn a picture. 
From Newark, N. J., Jim Waldraa wrote on Feb­ruary 13th that he sees most of the Jersey gang quite frequently. He wrote that Jim Silver was one of the lucky ones on that train wreck in Janu­ary or February coming out with only a broken shoulder and various cuts and bruisej. Jim writes that he h » had a couple of letters recently from his old rooroniate Rani (dbeadi) Gomez who is working for an oil company in bis home town, Tampico, Mexico. 
Jim is in the construction business with bis two brothers and a nephew. He has been married since 1931 and has tA«-o daughters and one son. He was uncertain about Reunion but that Jersey crowd will probably work on hun. 
It's our sad duty to report the deaths of two of our classmates. According to a letter from Mai Knans in Detroit, WHKam F. Reardon died on April 20th. Mai gave no further details. A card was returned in answer to the Reunion inquiry saying that Frederick G. Fergiaoo of Lorain^ cSfaio, died on February 7, 1951. May their souls rest in peace! 
Of the cards sent out recently in a letter from your secretary about one-third have been returned. I'd like to list the replies but I'm afraid the Edi­tors would yell- So here's a summary: 83 say they'll be back, 19 say cfaey can't make it, 2 arc uncer­tain, and 1 in Chicago amended the card to read; '*I hope and plan to attead, etc." but failed to sign his name. 
Our President, Ray Dnnt, has been out of town for several weeks but upon his return we Mrill un­doubtedly be getting another letter out to the class and at that time I will endeavor to have it in­clude an insert listing the names of those who plan to be back. In the meantime each of you make yourselves a committee of one to get after your old friends. See you June 8th, 9th and 10th. 
1928 
Thanks a lot, men of the Class of 1928, for selecting roc as your secretary for the interna to the time of our 23th-year reunion in 1953. You've brought to fruition, the novenas made by my good wife to the contrary notwithstanding, a plot hatched back in the fall of 1924 in Oskar Rut's room in old Freshman Hall to make me class secretary. Unfortuiutely, at the time, Oskar and the other plotters, including the late and lamented John F. McMahon,, failed to let me in on their cabal. That they k^ t their secret well was at­tested by the number of votes I received at the subsequent primary election. Jn fact, not knowing-that I was to be nominated for the post of secre­tary, I arrived too late at Washington Hal! to hear Oskar's eloquent nominating speech and to cast a vote for myself. 
But even though the elusive honor evaded my grasp for twenty-seven years, you've made me very proud, albeit my gofxl wife is "fit to be tied," and I am confident warmed the cockles of Oskar Rttsfs. and his fellow conspirators* hearts, by &ialty get­ting around to naming me your secretary. 
Referring to my good wife's noii'enas, when she first learned that I had been nominated as one ot two to try to fill the big brogans bemg vacated by our peerless secretary and now president, lonis Budley, Edith bt^an faithfully a series of novenas to accomplish my defeat. Edith prayed long and faithfully to the end that I would once again be defeated for class secretary. Edith's astonishment was as great as mine when Louie's letter arrived informing us that I had been elected his successor. Subsequently, she burst into tears. Finally, my good wife began to doi^t the efficacy of novenas of negativism until I gently reminded her that undoubtedly Geotgr Sdwoer's relatives had made more and more fervent ncnrenas to the end that he would not be i^mpelled to carry the pen htang abandoned by Lotue after twenty-three years of brilliant and matchless effort. 
Let's take off our chapeaus to our class officers, Joka F. Frederidi, president; Howard V. Aafia, 
\*icc president; Louts F. Bttckley, sccretar>-. and Joe Griffin, treasurer, who ser\'ed us so well for nearly a quarter century. I propose that we estab­luh a fund now, by scadiag contributions to Ber-Hard A. Gaiber, so that we can present each of our class officers at our reunion in 1933 with a gold medal attesting to his long, faithful and dis­tinguished service. Let*s not forget either the fund suggested by our new president, Louie, for the saying of Masses by members of our class for our deceased members. Reqmescant in pace! 
Thanks a million, classmates, for your fine co­operation. Letters literally have been inundating me. The first letter I received after Louis in­formed me the Classmates had pinned the secre­tar>'ship on me was from John Frederick, our able senior class prcxy and our junior class vice presi­dent and all-Ameiican center, who wrote as fol­lows: 
"Just received the Alumnus and the *hot' news that you are the new class secretary. Congratula­tions and the best of luck. Anything that ^v-e can do to help you please let us know. 
"Received a letter from Joe P. Kinneary last month and he tells me that he sees John Fontana, Jc^in Igoe and Jim Sbocknessy frequently in Co­lumbus, O. 
"I saw Leo Walsh in Grand Rapids last montlt and I see Frank Donovan weekly tn Muskegon. 
"I have visited the campus at least once a month for the past several months. My oldest daughter. Peggy, is at St. Mary's Academy, South Bend, and my older son, John, has spent several week-ends at ND with Rock, Joe Morrbiey's boy." 
Hard on John's heels came a fat letter from our new president, Louie Buckley, whose \'aliant job as our class secretary over the years kept increas­ing the size of The Notre Dame Alumnus to such proportions that the Administration finally hit upon the plan of setting up new elections in all classes in the h(^>e that Louie would either be promoted or sidetracked. Here's what Louie typed: 
"I was pleased to bear from three of the new class officers, Leo Mclntyre, Jim Camzaro and Art Canty, assuring me of their cooperation in carrying out class activities. Jim Canizaro wrote from Jackson, Mississippi, where he is an architect, that he would write to the '28 men of the South. Art Canty is practicing law at 5757 Wilshire Boul­evard, Tenninal Annex Box 2031, Los Angeles 54, California. Art mentioned that he was on the campus on the day of the Michigan State game. I am sure that under the leadership of Jim and Art, we will receive excellent cooperation from the classmates of the South and West in sending class news to our new secretary, Leo Mclntyre­
"I was sorry to hear that Leo had been seriously ill a few months ago. I also want to extend our sympathy to him and his wife on the loss of his seventh child, and fifth son. 
'*It was a pleasure to have a letter from John Frederidc extending his congratulations on my election as president of the class. John, as you know, is practicing law in Muskegon, Michigan. 
"I regretted hearing of the death of our eco­nomics professor. Father William Bolger, CS.C. Hardly a month passes, when I do not have occa­sion to quote Father Bolger in my classes and speeches. His contribution to Catholic social bought was a most significant one. I am sure there are a number of '28 men, who like m>*self, were inspired by our privilege to study under him. 
"I called at the funeral home on March 7 on the occasion of the death of Bill Murphy's mother. You will recall that I advised you of the death of Bill's father a year ago. 
"My participation in a conference at the Uni­versity of Illinois in February gave me the op­portunity to \^sit Vince Walsh and his family in Monticello, Illinois. They had just returned from a trip to Mexico. Vince is kept busy managing farms and in civic activities in the area. Vince has a son, nine years of age. I had a card from Vince Carney from Mexico in Fchruary. He said that he had seen Connie Odioa there. I met Bill Leahy in the Merchandise Mart recently. Bill has a health food business in Chicago." 
I've heard from Louie several times since and I am confident he's planning a great reunion for us in 1953. Letters have come also from Ed^-ard F. McKeown, one of our most active members during his undergraduate days and who is making a great Gomeiiack from a nearly fatal automobile accident many months ago; from Home Fhalin, the World Book tycoon; from Harry S. Sdbubmehl, Wayland, 
N. y., who sUted that PWI O'Connor's innate modesty prevented him from informing Louie in a recent letter that he is, to quote Harr>', "a big 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

Clarence W. Harding, '25, was elected this month to the presidency of the Na­tional Newspaper Promotions Associa­tion. He is Promotion Director of the South Bend Tribune, 
This is the first time in the group's 21-year history that the honor has gone to anyone outside metropolitan newspa­pers. Two vice-presidents of the group, for instance, are promotion managers of the New York Times and of the Louis­ville Courier-Journal. 
In 1950 Mr. Harding was Midwest Di­vision president. 
He recently supervised the public showing of the opening of the new plant of the Tribune^ which represents a §1,000,000 improvement. For the occa­sion, writers and cartoonists with na­tion-wide syndication were brought to South Bend for public appearances. 
muscle at the Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester, 
N. Y." Harry adds: "Phil has a 'comer' of his own and with his white hair, makes a most dis* tinguished and handsome-looking executive." 
Our new treasurer, Bern Garber, contributed two fine epistles, one of a more personal nature and the other as follows: 
**The real estate business will go to pot, now 

that you are secretarv*! 
"Here's my mite: 
**Richard Parrish is now in New York City, 

writing, doing graduate work at Columbia Uni­versity and working with Columbia University Press. Looking younger than in June '28, Dick is so full of energy and ideas that he should be given the Korean situation to handle. 
"Bill Cronin met Dorothy and me on Fifth ave­

nue one bright afternoon recently. Bill, return­
ing from his dentist, remarked that son Vaughn 
cracked a tooth in scrimmage at Annapolis. That 
will be the day when he plays against N.D.! The 
Cronins youngest of five is about two. 
Bill asked about.Conmey,' Culliney, etc, and the next day Larry turns up at my house for a most pleasant visit. I hope his interesting plans for the future materialize quickly. The Cullineys have two children at present. Larry told me about see­ing "Joe" Cannon, Art Mitiguy (very active in Catholic affairs around Rutland, Vt.), and Jim Conmey. If Laura and Jim would drive up in their new car to visit the Garbers, I might give you more- news. 
^Vhile at lunch yesterday at the New York A.C., I met .Andy Powen from Waukesha. With Foxhead beer, he is in N.Y. one week a month. After 23 years, it was good to sec him. 
In this order, I have seen \'ery recently Parrish, Cronin, Culliney and Powers. These, with Steve Sherry whom I see daily, arc as trun now as Ebner Layden was when a Four Horseman! Good luck, Leo. 
My most futhful and enthusiastic contributor, however, has been Jackson, Mississ^ipi's most able architect and our efficient vice-president of the South, God bless her* James T. "Jack" Canizaro, who has bombarded me with bulletins a la Mac­Arthur. Let's have more men like Jack, who t^iped out the following: 
"I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of the members of the Class of '28 for electing me vice-president for the South and I do hope that I will be able to let the rest of the men of Notre Dame know what we are doing down here. I will try to get as many of the '28 men to the 23th re­union as possible. 
**I have written to all of the men in the follow­ing States: Maryland, District of Columbia, Vir­ginia, North Csirolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Arkan­sas, Missouri, Texas, Oklahoma, I<ouisiana, Florida. 
"I think these are the only States I am sup­posed to contact. 
"I do hope that those men in the '28 in my ter­ritory who sec this article, and I have failed to contact, would write me direct to 801 Deposit Guaranty Bank Building, Jackson, Mississippi, and give me their permanent addresses and any other information pertaining to their families or other interesting notations that may be of use for pub­lication in the Alumnus, particularly their occu­pations, how many in their family, if they've heard from any of the Notre Dame men of our class, etc. 
"I just talked with C>-prian Sporl of New Or­leans. As you know% he is a very outstanding in­surance broker in New Orleans. He has promised to write me a letter, giving me all of the news of the men in New Orleans and Louisiana, within the next few days. I do hope to get this before the 26th so that I may foru-ard it on to you. He and I would like to plan two or three luncheons at a central location and invite all of the '28 men in this locality to discmss the plans and methods to get as many men as possible to the '28's 25th re­union. 
**Dr. Sam Romano is located in New Orleans and also teaches at Ix>yoIa University of the South in New Orleans. He is an outstanding physician and I had an opportunity to see him by appoint­ment a year or so ago. 
'*Also, in New Orleans is Bolan Burke, we'd like to hear from him. 
**Freddie Evans is now in partnership with his father in the lumber business in Vicksburg, Mis­stss^ipi. Although Z go to Vicksburg quite fre* quently, I do not see him as often as I'd like. 
**Troy Bonner works for the Veterans Bureau here in Jackson and I see him quite often. He is still a bachelor and has not changed or aged since he graduated at N.D. 
"I do hope, that before the 26th, I have some answers to my letters. I shall send them direct to you so that you may compile them as you see fit." 
Jack also enclosed a letter he had just received from Joe Langton, happily domiciled at 6623 Ban­croft, St. Louis, Mo., who deplores the fact that he b a synthetic Southerner. But let Joe speak for himself: 
"It was a pleasant surprise to receive your letter of April 9th requesting information for the Alum­nus. 
"I sure never thought that this "Ex-IIIinoisan Yankee" would ever be considered a ^Southerner Suh' just because he resided in St. Louis (no of­fense). 
"I haven't much news of '28 men in St. Louis as I seem to be the only one. Bill Leahy, you know, is now in Chicago and Carroll FinUcy is in Portagevillc, Mo. I understand from his brother 'T. C* who is in the class of '33 and is our con­signee in Portageville, that Carroll gets to St. Louis once in a while but he never has time to call. 
**I'm still with Phillips Petroleum Co. for the past 19 years, first in Peoria and now in St. Louis. I've also been married for the past 13 years and have three children, Molly 12, Susan 11, and Mixie (a fullback for 1960) age 7. 
The local NJD. Club have dragged me out of retirement and have me on their Board of Direc­ton and also' elected me a Vice Prendent, why, I don't know, .unless they want some of these '28 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

men to give them sage advice (after being out of 
school for 23 years). 
*'How is Fred Evans, is he still in Vicksburg? 
"It is a little too far in advance to state my 
plans for the 25 yr. reunion. At present they call for attendance as I certainly enjoyed the 20 yr. reunion. I will be there if it is possible." 
Jack followed up with a letter from our amiable Cyp Sporl: 
"In response to your letter of April 9th and sup­plementing our telephone conversation of this morning, enclosed herewith is copy of 5elf.«xplana­tory letter to Louis Buckley which we discussed. The only further news since the writing of this let­ter was our Universal Notre Dame Night get to­gether. We were all very happy to have had Father Thornton with us for this occasion and the Club had a splendid turnout. The highlight of the evening was the honoring of our good friend and loyal Notre Dame supporter, Fred Digby, Vice President of the New Orleans Mid-Winter Sports Association, which sponsors the Sugar Bowl activi­ties. Tom McMahon, the retiring President of the Club, presented Fred with a Plaque from the Club. 
**Fred, as stated above, has always been one of our staunchest Notre Dame supporters in New Or­leans since the days of Knute Rockne and was certainly deserving of this tribute. I know his good friend, Frank Leahy, would concur in this state­ment. 
*'The retiring President, Tom McAfahon, had a most successful season with our Club and is de­serving of a great deal of credit for the time which he devoted and the manner in which he conducted the Club's activities during the year. Feel quite certain that the new officers will carry on the fine work which he has started. 
"With reference to your inquiry about myself, I am' still engaged in our insurance business with my brother and we are both keeping an eye out for good prospects for Notre Dame. 
"From all indications and everything permitting, I will certainly do my utmost to be at our 25th reunion." 
Jack noted that Ed. F. Cunningham, fonnerly lo­cated at 921 Rockbridge Ave.. Norfolk, Va., had moved without leaving a forwarding address. He would like to know Ed's correct address, so that he iran communicate with him. Fine work, Jack! 
Under separate cover, several days after hearing from him, I received an announcement that J<^m 
F. Frederick, Commissioner of the Labor Media­tion Board of Michigan, 1944-1950, had resumed the practice of law at 411 Hackley Union Na­tional Bank Building, Muskegon, Mich. 1200 votes, more or less, you'll recall, prev-ented our felloiv^ alumnus and John's good friend, Harry F. Kelly, the Republican nominee and former Governor, from residing again in Michigan's gubernatorial mansion. In 1951. 
Let the battle cr>- of the Class of 1928 be: We'll rally at N. D. in '53! So long, men of '28. Keep those letters coming. Lots of luck to you all. Bill Cromn and his nominating committee did 
an excellent job, as I told Bern Garber some months ^o , with the one exception of nominat* ing me for secretary. They mised a sure-fire sec­ond Louie Buckley in the fiesh when they passed over "Jack** Camzaro, our vice-president for the South and Mississippi's genuine contribution to American architecture, for the job. 
With the deadline of Managing Editor John Bums virtually at my throat. Jack air-mails two more missives, the one from Father Mulreaoy, deep in the heart of Texas, and the other from Fred Evans, from \-aliant Vicksburg. From St. Mary's Cathedral, Austin, Tex., Father Andy writes: 
"Please accept my congratulations even though a little late for your office of vice-president of the class of '28 for the South. May God's assistance be Hith you in the work of keeping our classmates of this section active. 
"The greater part of my priesthood has been spent in the South. I was attached to Sacred Heart parish in New Orleans the first sue years after or­dination and there I received a good introduction to the South. I was assistant pastor there and abo chaplain for the Orleans Parish prison. 
**During the last two years of my term there I was also Bishop O'Hara's personal representative as port chaplain for the Armed Forces. That was during the early years of the war when he was head of the Military Ordinariate. 
"I then returned to Notre Dame for a year to be chaplain for the Brothers of Holy Cross at Dujarie and to do a little teaching. I came to Texas in 1944 and have continued to be assistant at St. Mary's. 
"Holy Cross is well represented in this section of Texas (truly the heart of the State). The Brothers have St. Edward's University* and High School. They also have a scholasticate for their Brothers who study at St. Edward's. Altogether there must be about one hundred Holy Cross Brothers in Austin. 
"We have about eighteen priests in the Austin Diocese. Some are in Mission work caring for the Mexicans and Negroes. This parish is one of the oldest in thts part of the state going back to 1852. It was taken over by the Holy Cross Fathers about 1874—in Father Sorin's time. He was the founder of St. Edward's. 
"In my parochial duties I have been caring for a Notre Dame man of about the 1914 vintage— Roger H. Byrne. I happened to run across him in one of the local hospitals. He is from Smithville, a small community about 40 miles from here. Poor fellow has been deaf since he was 13. He attended the Deaf Institute in Austin run by the State and went on to Notre Dame. 
"Understand he was on the wrestling team. Since 1919 he has been completely paralyzed. Just recently he suffered a broken hip to add to his sufferings. Incidentally he is the only Catholic in a family of eight children. I have been visiting him regularly. 
"Hope this letter will give you some aid and if any news comes my way I'll send it on to you. The big ne^vs will break in October 1932 when 
N.D. plays Texas here. 
Jim Shells, New York City Invcstigatioiis Commissioner (standing) was featured speaker at Baltimore's UND Night. To his left, "Hoch," Ed Sporl, Baltimore mayor Thomas D'Alesandro and Mrs. Spori. 
May-June, 1951 
"Will keep you in my pnr^n aad masses.** Lundiennan Evaiu states: "As you know I am stiU workiag for the Missis­sippi Lumber Co., am married.and have two chfl.­dren, a daughter 18 and a soo 17. Also I stM James T. hifccr several months ago, wlicn he was 
home on vacation, and he is makinff a career of the great field of electridty and is still a bachelor. "I sure think the 25th reunion is something to 
think about and plan for, but at the present writ­ing with the time still two years away I cannot say anything definite." 
In a grand gesture of geniality, Jolm Ryan, 2434, 
W. Greenleaf, Chicago, HL , secretary oi the class of 1926, which is observing its silver anniversary at Notre Dame In June, extends a cordial invitation to join with them and to make the '26 headquar­ters our headquarters duruig the momentous days of June 8 to IQ, inclusive. 
Writes Ryan, with a Gael^ gift, in part: "The Class of '26 were and are a grand bunch of fel­lows. And there are six other classes, '23, '24, '^ , '27, '28 and '29, that have a grand bunch of fellows. 
**Many of us knew many in your class during the years we spent together oa the campus. There were some fine friendships that crossed class lines. So it seems to me that our reunion would be more complete if those of your class who are back at school at retmion time would make our headquar­ters your headquarters." Thanks John. 
Additional last minute 

Another literary forward pass via air mail from redoubtable Jack CaninTO plumped into my out­stretched arms. It's a missive originally sent by New Orleans insurance broker Cyp Sporl to "Latae Buckley, but which had gone astray. Here it is: 
"The real big news item was the Notre Dame-Tulane game played here last October, which un­fortunately terminated the series between the two institutions. Believe it or not, our hotel space was actually sold out in March for the October game. We had the finest Notre Dame retmion the night before the game that we have ever had in the deep South. 
"Fellows from all parts of the country showed up and more would have come if they could have secured reservations. Tom McMahon, president of the Club here, certainly did a splendid job in ar­ranging the rally the night before the game and all the other details which go with a big gathering of this kind. 
"From Texas came Jim Swift, Tommy Green, Christy Flanagan, Nat Fowcrs, Joe Bronssaid, Charlie Atcheson, Horace SptDer, Rube Momsen and many others who I 'just can't remember off hand. 
"Our Louisiana Alumni were well represented by Joe Blache, Dink HcnnesKT> Bob Roy, Dick Norry, Cormody, Sonme Dupier, Ball ^filler (now of Jackson, llfississippi} and numerous others. 
"Among some of the others from different sections that I had the pleasure of seeing were Den AfiSer, Tom Leahy, Fat Canny, Bmff deary and Chudc Roak. Understand Efaaer Laydea and Jim Crowley came in just for the game. 
"The large Sugar Bowl lacked several thousand of being filled which gives you some idea how pop­ular Notre Dame is in New Orleans. It is too bad these two fine institutions did not renew their home and home game contract. I think in time Tulane will regret letting this relationship go out the window. I personally know Frank Leahy re­gretted very much seeing Tulane make this move and we all here feel likewise. However, our local protege, John Fetitbon, turned in a brilliant per­formance during the tune he played before being injured, and our sophomore, Jerry Marcfaand, from Baton Rouge, also gave a good account of himself. 
"The evening was topped by a large party given by Joe David, Sr., who has a son on the Notre Dame squad. Joe is to be complimented for his splendid party which the team, sport celerities from all parts, and the Notre Dame Alumni at­tended. The only thing nmsing was the presence of our dear friend. Father Loa ThOTntoa, who is well known here and was stationed here shortly after being ordained. 
"Lome, I think that just about covers it. Am oleascd to maort I am comiut alonx nicehr after a gallbladder operation, which was followed by a blood dot on the lung which gave me quite a set­back. I have plently to be thankful for and ap­
25 

Notables at UND Night in Los Angeles: Standing, Wallace Ford, Frank Fay, Club President Ben Alexander, Honary Alumni President Leo Ward, Dr. Frank Breslin and Bion VogeL Seated, Ralph Dumke, Eddie Garr, Rev. John Lynch and Aileen Stanley 
prcciatc deeph* Father Thornton's having the Notre Dame student body remember me in their prayers together with his own.** 
1929 
From Charlc\- Sdiutty: 
Dear Larr>% "It certainly was a pleasure to hear from you. but brother you sure pitched me a curve when you asked me to write you for an April 23 deadline when I didn*t get your letter until April 23 p.m. Anyhow I will do my best and get this off tonight in hopes it will get in under the wire. *'When you were in Milwaukee, you saw our 8­month-old baby girl—well that has been increased to four now. Patricia 16. Gcraldine 12. and Charles and Philip 8V2, twins. I want you to know. The 8-month-old baby you knew is now quite a young lady who will graduate from high school next week and start college next fall. TliL*; is the age when you and I first crossed paths when we were a couple of farmer boys stumbling around the Union Station in Chicago trj-ing to figure out how we were going to get the rest of the •way to South Bend. "I've been with the Allis-Chalmcr Mfg. Co. ever since ! left school. I went into tlie sales end of the business and worked out of the Chicago Dis­trict, Springfield, III., Davenport. Iowa, and the past 5 years have been holding forth in Kansas Cit^% Mo. I have always liked my work because it has been interesting. Sometimes, though it is a far cry from EE. Some days switch gear, circuit breakers or generators will be on the menu, and other da>-s it's liable to be cement kilns, grinding mills or rock crushers—or hydraulic turbines or even flour mill machinery. This all gets down to the corny saying that a salesman gets to know less and less about more and more until he knows nothing about e\*erything. On the other hand the Engineering Specialist gets to know more and more about less and less until he knows cver>'thing about nothing. "We live out in Liberty. Mo., a little suburban town about 18 miles northeast of Kansas City. If you or any of the other '29ers are around these parts, drop in. The welcome mat is always out. "Jade and Elizabeth Donahue drop in each sum­mer on their way to visit '*Pip's" parents in Pitts­burg, Kansas. We thrash everv'thing over and sooner or later that thing will enter the conversa­tion—Rocco the Perone. Tell me, who ordered that detective's suit from the mail order house? If I remember correctly, it didn't stand the water (shower) test. *'Say, has anybody ever seen or heard of my old Corby Hall roommate, Eddie Millar, the WTieeliug, 
W. Va., flash? Eddie, if you read this, let me hear from you. I might even be able to dig up a hot tip on the Kentucky Derby—or do you need one? 
*'I have always been curious to hear from some of my old friends; sucli as Joe Bricg, the old Mas­
ter of the black keys of the Brownson Hall Rec. piano. Roy Sterck, Tom Price, R^is Maloncy, Father Paul Freybui^er, and Luis Godoy—Louie, let us hear from you." 
Your secretar\- pro tern, Larry Stauder, Electrical Engineering Department, Notre Dame, joins with Lou Nicztr and many oth'.rs in wishing Don Plun­keit a complete recovery from his illness. Don is up and around but is, we trust, going to use the good judgment of not overdoing. I'm sure that he will appreciate a note from his many friends— and send along a news item, that his substitute may, at least partially, continue to maintain the higli standard he has set in the ALUMNUS. 
Rocco Perone and Agnes, Cleveland, on March 31 welcomed the arrival of Rocco D., Jr. This is their fourth child and first son. His sisters, Mary Elena, Paulette, and Denise Marie, agree with Rock and Mom that he is the finest propcct for Notre Dame of the past 25 years. 
Rocco has been in the Engineering Department of Long Lines of A. T. & T. continously since '29. Gus CcfTalid, Joe Gaia, Jack Donahue, Ed De­bacne, Tom Lantr)' will have places reser\-ed in the 25th reunion line for belated cigars. 
George O'Brien, who until recently has been operating the O'Brien Drugs in Roscland, has pur­chased a drug store in South Bend to begin his chain. 
Thos. (Mickey) McMahon, Frcs. of New Orleans 
N.D. Club, plans to visit the campus and to attend the Old Timers game. 
George Monroe, Frecport, III., Chevrolet dealer and dairy farmer, \'acationed recently in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. George is active in the Ameri­can Rose Society. He grows some 900 H>-brid Tea Roses ever\* year. George plans to attend the An­nual Laymen's Retreat at N.D. this summer. 
Paul Bartholomew is taking an active part in the local Republican Election activities. 
From Bill Byrne: 
"The Alumni entertained the N.D. representa­tives for the Shrine West game for the crippled children (you know the slogan of the game is 'Strong legs run so weak legs may w*alk') at Veneto*s Restaurant, one of San Francisco's old Italian eating places in the North Beach district of our fair cit>*. 
"Williams, Groom, and Gay were wonderful rep­resentatives of Notre Dame and certainly the Uni­versit>- should be proud to have such emissaries ­carry on the living examples of its great and hum­ble teachings to this west coast. They conducted themselves with dignity and pride and jointly ex­plained the reasons for what most people say was a disastrous season for the team, but to them and other members of the 1950 organization was a new experience in their collegiate football careers at N.D. 
"Their stories were concerned with the team, its coach and its splendid comradeship, its daily trials and tribulations with a fine understanding of the \'alue of it over all cause and effects of an N.D. 
campaign in football against worthy opponents 
throughout a hard and tiresome season. 
**Edward **SIip'* Madigan and his old teammate 
of the *20V and still his sidekick. Buddy Andn-ws, 
made the arrangements for the gathering and it's 
quite a job for time is essential; the timing has to 
be perfect as the boys arc loaned to us for the 
evening and must practice in Santa Clara some 
50 miles south of the city. 
**Dcnny Hcmmn. Athletic Manager at Santa Clara University, picked up the boys from prac­tice, rushed them the 50 miles to the place of meeting so that the group could have a few min­utes of greeting and good cheer together. Then dinner, speeches, and back to the campus at Santa Clara where the East team had its residence. They had to be back by eleven p.m. 
**With every alumnus showing interest and wide awake leadership the club in Northern California is growing in all activities—social, religious, and athletic. 
"I'm sorr>' I can't do more for the University and its splendid work in the present world situa­tion but as a school teacher I'm limited as to time and money, but sometime somewhere and by provi­dcntial guidance I contribute my small share. I hope. 
''Greetings to all our classmates wherever they may be and ask them and the priests on the cam­pus to say a few extra prayers for me and mine. Your classmate and friend." 
Jos. Thad Hcinlcin*s new address is 434 Mo­hawk Dr., Erie. Pa. 
Karl A. Kasdiewski's latest mail classification in the alumni list is ''Unclaimed": is there any in­formation available on Karl? The same listing is given RkJiaFd Moody. 
Ray Milliard went May 1 to the job of executive director of the Welfare Council of Nciv York City. The Council is a central agency for 250 private 
welfare, health and philanthropic groups. 
Ray had been Welfare Commissioner of New York City since Mar. 12, 1948 and is a former executive secretary of the Illinois Public Aid Com­mission. He had done social welfare and relief work in that state since 1934, 
Bcfiiic Losbou^ left a post as administrator of Connecticut's Housing Authority and is director of project development for a private construction firm in Hartford. 
1930 
Everyone in the class of 1930 will be very- sad­dened by the news of the death of Father AVilliam Scandlon, C.S.C. This issue of the ALUMNUS will carry a detailed story about Father Bill. 
Bob Holmes is the new President of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley (South Bend and environs). No sooner is he elected than he must get busy with arrangements for the Varsity-Old Timers game. May 12. 
Other 1930 class men who are ser\-ing as Presi­dents of N.D. alumni clubs are or were: Lou Berardi, Los Angeles Club; Joe Abbott, the New-Jersey club; Jack Elder, Cleveland Club; Andy Aman, Dayton club; Jhn Walsh, the Dallas club; Frank Haitiilton, South Central Wisconsin club. 
Ed Meredith is in the primaries race for South Bend City Judge on the Republican ticket, and the old basketball guard, Ed Smith, is seeking the nomination for Mayor on the same ticket. If Smith makes the grade in the primaries, he will be opposing in the fall another ND alumnus, George Scfaodc, incumbent mayor. 
Many thanks to Father Edward R. Fitzgerald, CS.C , for sending along information on the courses of instruction offered to reservists at Max­well AFB, Alabama. Father Ed is chaplain at' Maxu-ell, and has completed ten years on active duty, twenty-two months of it at the Air Force Base in Alabama. 
We recently saw a classy looking brochure of the Sauer, Inc. Mechanical Contractors who are cele­brating their 75th Anniversary this year. Bill Sldtx of Pittsburg is president of Sauer. 
It took almost a broken leg for Jim Leahy of Chicago to remember he owed our column a letter. 
"Words still fail me when it comes to expressing my enjoyment of that 20 year reunion. 
"You asked for some information about the '30 men I have run across: attended a 25 year reunion of my high school class (St. Mel—Chicago). At the banquet met Bill Bromann of Oak Park and Bud Cotter. Bill as you remember was at our reunion last June. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

"At the present writing I am laid up with a bad leg suffered in a fall on the fee last Fiiday night. No bones broken—luckily. 
"According to your letter N.D. is going all out again in its training of young men for all branches of the services. 
*'Win write you occasionally on any news I have of our classmates. 
"P.S. Let's start a slogan 'Remember *55*." 
Gerry McKay of Minneapolis finally dropped us a line to tcU us he arrived home safely after the reunion last June. How about that "Arrived home safely** letter from you other fellows? .An>*\vay. herc*s Gerry: 
*'This is a p*K>r excuse for the t>-pc of letter yim should get for your swell job and interest of last June. I still have pleasant thoughts of that week­end. 
**As for our class news in these parts J have little to offer. John Duane Yelland volunteered for Active Duty in the Navy. He is stationed at As­toria, Oregon. This station is engaged in activat­ing ships that have been in the mothball fleet. His wife, Mary, and two daughters folIo%vcd Iiim short­ly and are enjoying the Na^-al station there. 
**Harry Flannery, our new addition to the Twin City Club, gave us a fine talk on U.X.D. night. He is with the Catholic Digest now. Lou Regan, '29, has a top job now heading up the Mail Order department of Sears Roebuck, Minncapoli;. 
**I am still with National Cash Register selling store systems. Have a new member in the family —our first boy, John Gregory, 5 months. He is the favorite with his three sisters. 
''The ecronomic situation has been putting com­missioned salesmen on the fast treadmill. 
"\Vc have a fine new neighbor—^Jack Gettons, '37, who transferred from Columbus with the Pure Oil Co. 
"My regards to JacJc Turley—tell him to look me up this summer. Kindest regards. Devcre—keep up the good work. Say hello to Father Joe Powers; you arc fortunate to have him back. We sure miss him." 
Bus Bondi, district manager for Metropolitan Life at Norwood. Ohio, questions the reliability of Jack Cannon as a witness. Gus writes: 
**Ver>' sorry that I did not get around to send­ing you a letter in reply to your request for news for the November-December issue of the ALUM­NUS. I assume, however, that you arc still look­ing for items for the next issue, and therefore I am writing you to correct several items which ap­peared in the 1930 Class News, reported by our good friend. Jack Cannon. 
''[ note that he stated he saw nie in Cleveland at the Navy-Notrc Dame football game, but in re­ality it was in South Bend at the Michigan State football game. I also note that he stated I was connected with the Prudential Life Insurance Com­pany, and with all due respect to that organiza­tion, I would like to correct this, because I am with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. This makes it rather evident, that while Jack Can­non was a vcr>- good guard on the football team, as a reporter he is not ver>- accurate in his facts. 
"Unfortunately I do not have ver>- much news of the members of the class of 1930, because John Hcilker is the only other member of the class of '30 I know of here in Cincinnati. John is an at­torney, and as of the first of the year, he became a partner in the firm of Kunkcl and Kunkel. He has a wife and two candidates for St. Mar>' s Ct>Ucse. 
"I ran across AI Shipccasse in the Gibson Hotel last week while he was in Cincinnati checking up on one of our local banks. He seems to be as young as he was t^venty years ago. 
" I hope the above news will be of some help to you in filling your column in the next issue, and I will make a mental note of any other news I hear about the members of the class of '30 and send them along because I know it is only through the help of \'arious members throughout the coun­try that you can make the 1930 news interesting and informative. I do want to congratulate you on the fine improvement that has been indicated since you were made Class Sccretar>- at our 20th reunion. Keep up the good work." 
a foot infection. However I did manage to gather a few items which may help fill the column. 
"The latest dope from the sick -bay: ^'Jackson Rcdgale was well enough to attend the N.Y.U. basketball game and what a pleasure for his friends to see him looking so well. He was accompanied by his fine looking son, John, Jr. Bus informed me he has returned to his duties as a funeral di­rector on a part time basis. Through your column, Dev, he has asked me to express his sincere grati­tude for the prayers and encouragement from all his Notre Dame friends. 
''Met Tom Ctmningfaam at basketball luncheon at Toot Shor's and he told me his physician in­formed him the most recent cardiogram was nega­tive. This is most encouraging because Thomas also has had a real struggle to regain his health during the past few years. 
"Others at the luncheon were Tun 0*Rourke, Tom Lantry, John NanoWc and Hmothy La%vrencc Cronin, the transplanted Long Islander now resid­ing in Paterson, N. J. 
At the game, (what a nightmare!) I was seated in front of George Winkler, his wife and hts two young lady daughters. I also met another old sparring partner that I hadn't seen in too many years, namely, Joe Abbot of track fame. Joe has added a few pounds too, haven't we all, but he is still his genial self. Joseph Jr. was with him and if this young man fills out he will be an ex­cellent prospect for Coach Frank Leahy's football team. Dr. Phil Provissiero was with the Abbotts. 
"The question most frequently asked by class­mates we run across at the New York Club meet­ings is "What has happened to Warren Foge!?** We don't sec him any more. 
**I still hear regularly from Father Jim Rizcr. He is now- stationed at Our Lady of Nazareth, 
P.O. Box 2457, Roanoke 10, Virginia, and he will be glad to hear from classmates and friends. 
"Johnny Bums, Ed Cunningham, Ed "Stretch** Mahan and Judge Richie Barber, all of '31, plan to attend their 20th reunion in June. Drop over to the headquarters and extend the greetings of our class. 
"Hope you have a pleasant Summer and don't jinx my Red Sox the way you did last year." 
Bemic Conroy, who a year ago w*as busy with Dan Cannon and Father Roy Totten drawing re­union plans,' writes in from New Kensington, Penn­sylvania: 
"Thanks for the card. I often think of writing to you but I have not been able to dig up any news so I keep putting off WTiting the few items I do have. 
"Last fall I ran into John Hoffman who for­merly lived in Altoona. but is now located in Pittsburgh with a micro-film company. John looked fine and since I met him at a Holy Name Eucha­ristic Rally at Forbes Field you must admit he is associating with the right people. 
''I often see Larry Enright's advertisement and picture in the paper, however I have not talked with him for some time. He is a distributor of dictaphones. 
"I saw a few of our classmates at the Notre 
Dame Night DtMKr in Pittsburgh. "Dvke** Kias­sley, Hugh GaB^Ekr. S n Wot, Joe Cbifc, Bcsis Kuka, Jwlge Higii Bark, fUkr Martm were sane of them. Friti Wiboa did a &ie job of tosstnuo­tering and everyone was glad to see Dcaa MeCar­ihr and hear his talk. The thrill ot the evening thou^ was the award to Juki McMabos's two sons.. John was a real Notre Dame Man in all ways and certainly did a wcmderfnl job in the few years that the Lord gave him in this workL 
**Daa CannoM reports from Columbus that he is now sales manager for the CNdsmobile Sales Com­pany in Columbus. One <A the first things his new boss did was send him to Florida for a vacatioa where Dan caught up with George BraatigaB. 
"Keep up the good work, Devere, and I'll try to do better some other time." 
SYMPATHIES To Henry R. Pkatt, Peoria, 111., on the death of his father. 
DEATHS 

Rev. William S. Scandium C.S.C., Vice President of the Universily of Portland, March 27, Notre Dame. 
BIRTHS To Mr. aad Mrs. Fred L. CuanJagham, a daugh­ter, Mary Frances, Feb. 15, Portland, Oregon. 
1931 
20-YEAR REUNION JUNE 8, 9, 10 
Gil Seaman (Chic^o) to Jim Armstrong: 
"Dear Jim: "The Class of *31 has suffered recently from a dearth of news in its ALUMNUS Column. Fearful that this apparent apathy on the part of all of us might spell disaster for the 20 Year Reunion plans,. a committee in Chicago organaed itself for the purpose of pumping back some of the spirit into the 20 year old body. We sent a letter to all of our classmates in whic:fa each was requested to re­spond immediately informing us whether he would be able to attend. 
The flood of answers which immediately poured in, and which at this writing is still flowing, has almost inundated us. We regret that your dead­line for the ALUMNUS will not permit us to await the publication of the many answers which we know will still be received. 
In the meantime, we know from our mail that the following expect to be present for the reimion week-end. 
Dick Barber, Red WcUs, Vince Fonic, Walt De Bacpc, Ken Fishletgh, Ed Draves, Johuir Bnim, Stretch Mahoa, Ed Cnani^ham, Bill Deacnberg, Jim McQuaid, Jcrrr Crawler, Jim Doyle, Jim Ridi, Joe Boylaad, Spike SoUivan, Rwl Grant, Tom Monahaa, Herb Hart, Clarence Fnttcr. 
Here is a letter from Tim Toomc>-, our ace re­porter on the Metropolitan beat: At the West Shore Country Club in Harrisbu^, Law Dean Clarence £. Mamon was 
"Things have been a bit slow in the news gath­the University's representative on Untvcisal Notre Dame Night. "Pat" is standing back ering field as I missed the Glee Club Concert and 
of the microphone 
the .April meeting due to the death of an aunt and 
May-June, 1951 
Walt KcUey, Al Kohki, Nick Bohling, Tony Sdhrciacr, Rsy CoDiBS, Father Bourke Motsett, Jofal Bdtoa, Joe Mcitdcr, George Jackoboice, Martia Dowaey, Joe Wctll, Jim Miil\-aney, Frank Hollawl, Joka MakoMr, Frank Henneberger, Has­kta Aikcw, Ekm OToole, John Dorscfael, Bob Master, Ed Ryan. 
Al Stcpan, Jack Saunders^ C. F. Hancock, Ken Tohttlka, Jerry WisgiBS, Francis Vallee, Forrest West, Joe LanennaB, Myron Hershfield, Ed Mc-Ctalleii, Dave CSaik, Frank ScH-axd, Dick Se^-ard, Dick Baker, Ray Sullivan, Frank Leahy, Joe Blancy, Red O'Conndl, Bill Leahy, Tex Bricgcr, Ed ^iceran. 
Seymour Gron, Bert Meti^er, George O'Connor, Mauric Regan, Manrice Leahy, Art Bradley, Guil­lermo Alvarez Morpby, Ed Brennan, Russ Beaupre, Carl Cnmin, Ray Snyder, Bob Baer, Frank Cham­ben, Frank Dittoe, John McMurray, Paul Ertel, Lawrence Halter, Gil Seaman. 
Arrangements have already been made by Dan Claxk for the class dinner on Friday, June 8th at the Indiana Club at 7:00 P.M. The bar and re­freshments there will be made available somewhat earlier. In order that ivc may make a sufHiccnt number of reservations at the Indiana Club, it is important that those of you who have not yet re­sponded to our letter do so immediately. 
Wc will provide as much last minute detailed information of the program and plans in a second mailing to the class late in May, and at that time will bring up to date the names of those who have promised to return. 
From Blake Gordcm, who cannot attend: 
"Sorry I can't make it back. Haven't been on the campus since 1938 and don't suppose I would know the place." 
From John Zaback: 
''Have been engaged in funeral surxicc since 1931. Sec Howaxd Ikfaloney, ex '31, once in awhile. He is still In Dansville, N. Y , with Maloney Bros. Nursery Co. Doing all right for himself. Had planned on thu but find it impossible now to at­tend. Best Wishes for a good turnout." 
A sad note from Mrs. John Riedell: 
*'Jack died on March 14, 1950, as I notified the Alumni Association last summer. He had been practicing architecture tmtil a few months before his death of heart trouble. Besides his wife, he left a four-year-old daughter. Please pray for him. Jack became a Catholic in 1940." 
From Bob Baen 
**Self and the redoubtable Frank Chambers are attending." 
From Didc Baker: 
"The valedictorian is gradually become a \*ale­tudinaiian. I have four candidates for Phil Spital­ny, but none for Notre Dame yet. Have been teaching at the University of Dayton for past four years, after -pre%^ous teaching jobs at St. Mary's, California, and Nazareth College, ^Itchi­gan. Joe Gavin, the Dayton football coach, (to whom I have given many good plays), keeps in­sisting that his job is much tougher than teaching philosophy. Hope to sec you in June!" 
From E. McGlaUm, Jr.: "Please give my special regards to Nick BoUniff, Walter KcUey, John Mahooey and Bert Metzger.** 
From Joe Laocrman: 
"I will use my influence in getting Tom Adie to attend. Am most hc^Kful that Bob BaUe will take ofif a few da>-s.from his newspaper work in Florida, but am not worrying about Austin Boyle, who al­wa^'s manages to attend. I am sure that the so-called Rover Boys would have a wonderful time. 
"Bill Sullivan with a little pressure might take off from his Real Estate and Contracting work in Sarasota in order to be present. Savv* Dr. Doo Boyce and his brother, Fran, who are doing well in Escanaba, Michigan, at the Hiawathaland Notre Dame meeting." 
A wire from Jadk Saunders: 
"Salutations and congratulations to the Chicago Committee on Reunion Announcement just re-' ceived. Unprecedented, completely successful and refreshingly memorable Twenty Year Reunion Class of *31 now unequivocably assured. Today air mail­ing you my check for $25.00 to help defray com­mittee's consequent printing and mailing expenses. Warmest personal regards." 
From John Dorsdiel: 
"Hope to be at the reunion, but contrary to your note about babies, not all of us are old men. We expect an addition on June 11th. If *Mama* can hold off a few days, I will be with you. I have been a Studebaker dealer for 5 or 6 years in Roch­ester and have two other children. I am sure we will have en enjoyable reunion, and it will be good to hear Eddie R>-an's stories, and see if they arc still slicing the beef thin in the cafeteria—where I labored 3 years." 
Haskell Askew says: 
"Managed Askew Adjustment Co., Loss Coun­sellors and Adjusters for the insurance companies." 
Father Bourke Motsett replies: 
"How are you, Gil? Will be glad to see you in June. If you ever sec Don 0*TooIe, please tell him I am still alive in Danville. I had a nice visit with Red Foley, formerly of Tarrytown and now with the F.B.I, in Washington, D. C. Tried to contact Jim Kearney, but he was at lunch with Tnunan. He has one boy and is expecting another soon." 
From Al Kolski: "I see John Moran, Class '30, regularly. Wc both work for All Sutc Insurance Co." 
From Clarence Futtcr:' 
"I spoke to Ed Sheeran, (manner of Local Loan Co. in Long Beach, Calif.) on the phone a few days ago. He is planning on bringing his wife and two daughters. They will stay at my home in South Bend." 
From Tom Monahan: "Glad to see you getting active on the Reunion. 
Hope we have a good turnout. Robert (Spike) IMMI ••. nud Graat and I will be up." 
From Joe Bo^Hbad: 
"After 20 years, plus 40 pounds, less 80,000 hair, still wouldn't mbs the Reunion and am Ifwking forward to seeing you and all the rest." 
From Jim Radi: **Best regards to you, the family, and the com­mittee." 
From Jerry Crowley: 
"Glad to know a Twenty Year Reunion is being so well planned. If you don't have him on the list already, I suggest you send inforamtion to Deon B. Suttoa in New York." 
From Jim McQuaid: 
"I was very h^py to have your communication about our 20th Reunion at Notre Dame . . . for I have been looking forward to that week-end for a long time. Marie and I attended the 15th reunion and enjoyed meeting Fran and Walt Ridley and Heine and Marie Kopdc, and Jerry and Dorothy Ball .. . so naturally Marie is hoping that some of the wives will be coining too. 
"Just to celebrate the occasion I am getting a shining new wheelchair and hope to have it all broken in by June 8th. 
"We are looking forward to seeing Jim Doyle, for he has certainly been very faithful in sending many subscriptions, and instrumental in having his friends send me their renewals . . . and every little bit helps nowadays. 
"The K. of C. banquet honoring the Central Catholic basketball team had Moose Krause for the guest ^Kaker and it was an inspiring evening, and we sure enjoyed visiting with Moose. 
"We see Francis Henneberger and his wife. Vera, quite often and also Rudy Sturm (30) and his wife, Mildred .. . we all belong to the Tri-State club down this way and manage a get together now and then. 
''Please keep us informed and we are looking forward to the news of the class of *31 in the May issue of the ALUMNUS." 
Red Wd k informs us that he is President of WeUs Beer Co., Inc., at Nashville, Tennessee. From Dick Barber, City Judge of Rye, New^ YoA: 
**I plan to be at our Twenty Year Reunion in June. I am sure that Johnnie Bums, Stretch Mahoa and Ed Cnnnia^iam will be along." 
From Frank Seward: 
"Hi, Gil. It's been a long time since we sat to­gether in Father Miltner's Ethics class. Still touched with Wanderjahre, but right now, after eleven years directing in little theatres and pid­dling around HoUywcxid and three years and some in the army . . . spent mostly, it seems to me now, in diasing the Sadler's WeUs Ballet and commuting to the Paris Opera. .. . I'm in my fourth year of graduate %vork at Catholic University and teaching English to freshmen .. . even though everybody koo%irs that's impossible. Strangely enough, my classes are always known as Seward's Folly. And they're always asking me to tell them about the time I saw Booth play Hamlet, which you know is ridicndous. Hope to see you in June.** 
From Myraa Hershfidd: "How about a *bull session* in Walsh, Sorin, Monisscy, etc?** The immediate and enthusiastic response indi­cated by the letters above and others we have written, indicates the promise of a splendid Re­union. If anyone did not receive our letter, it is because we do not have his correct address, and we herewith ask that he inform us. To those who have not yet found time to indicate to us whether they may attend the Reunion, please decide favor­ably aad send that information to Gil Scaiaoo, Room 1500. 160 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago 4, Illinois. 
SYMPATHY To Rev. C. Burke Motsett, on the death of his father. DEATHS Jolm Kkddl, March 14, Paris, IllinoB. 
1932 

Tri-State (Indiana, Dlinois and Kentucky) club members, their wives and guests in Evans-Fran Jin CoDim: nlle at Ac Club's Universal Night. The observation was a preliminary to this summer's 
The new class officers are: President, Heib Gior­gio, Hollis, N. Y.; Vice Pres. (East), Dkk SolUna. 

golf outing at Princeton, Indiana 
Rochester, N. Y.; Vice Pres. (Midwest), Flo Mc-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Carter. Cleveland; Vice Prcs. (South), J. Doa SoUhraB. New Orleans; Vice Pres. (West], Baden FoweU, Los Angeles; Secretary, Jim Collini, Day­ton; Treasurer, Ed O'Malley, East St. Louis. 
Drew Sludger writes that he is with the Amer­ican Gas Accumulator Company in Elizabeth, N. J. He Is married and has two sons, Nelson and Aus­tin, and one daughter, Maria. 
Bill Vau^ u is still operating his uniform and linen business in Denver, according to John Hum­phries who is in the insurance business there. John has five children, which brings him even with Bart O'Hara who also lives in Denver and is practicing law there. 
Dr. John Keaaey's new address is 432 Country Lane, Louisville 7, Kentucky. John writes that he sees Ray Pfeiffer, Henry Annan and John Bannon regularly. 
Herb Giorgio said that Hank Donalty is back in the Navy and is sUttoncd in Atlanta. Frank Madden is in Miami with the State Dept., Leo Mc-Laugfalin recently headed the very successful an­nual fund raising Emerald Ball in New York. Herb's brother. Dr. Doug Giorgio, is a Command­er in the Navy on active duty and is stationed at Bethesda Naval Hospital, Md. 
Jerry Conway is in the public relations business in Pasadena, Cal. He also has an ofiice in Holly­wood. The new address for him and his wife and daughter is 139 No. Holliston Ave., Pasadena. 
Bill Jones writes from Rochester that he has three boys now—^Jim, Brad and Mark. Bill has just moved into his new home at 66 Glenmont Drive, Rochester 77. 
Pete Streb led his company's sales department for the past year. He is in the Ofiice Systems division of Diebold Safe and Lock Company and lives in Massillon, O. Bill Waltz is still running a bank in Massillon as well as being very active in Knights of Columbus affairs. 
Tom Magee is living in Portland, Oregon, and very happily reports the birth of a son, Michael, on February U. Tom also has three flaughters. 
Tony Conti writes that the New Jersey ND group under Joe Abbott, FhO Frovissiero and Joe Byans has sponsored several Communion break­fasts. Al Capter is a captain on the Paterson Fire Dept. Herb Wdirlen is teaching and selling in Paterson. He has four children. Tony is the 
N.Y. City reprcsentati\-e for the DcGisc Dyeing and Finishing Co. 
Don Sullivan said that he saw Tony Diaz at the Tulane game in New Orleans. Tony is the head of the Merida, Yucatan, Chamber of Conunerce and is also Consul for Honduras there. Don was recently ^pointed manager of the Fidelity and Casualty Company of New York in their New Or­leans oflBce. 
Baden Ptmell writes that Lt. Jack Wcracr is back in the Navy as Operations Officer of Staff Service Div. 31, FPO San Francisco. Jack has been in Japan, Korea, and Siberian waters recently and reports that they arc all very cold and wet. 
Among other new changes of address are Joe Gondarz to 5053 Dnunmond Place, Chicago 39; Venie Hnber to 32 Northmont St., Green^urg, Pa.; Dr. Joli» "Red" Jackson to 124 Stratford Ave., Garden iCty, N. Y.; Angelo Lockett to Braidwood, Illinois; John Morphy to 2951 E. 80th St.. Chicago 17; and Bob Rohrback to 654 Fifth Ave., Chula Vista, Calif. 
SYMPATHY To Colman B. O'Shau^messy, on the death of his father. 
1933 
Fram Joe McCabc: 
Dear '33'j: Yipes, and similar expressions of amazement. This comer lias another contribution to regale you with, mates. When we spoke of one letter per ALUMNUS isstie being par for our course, looks as though we hit the truth. However, this isn't golf, so let's bring that score up, lads. The letter for this edition comes from Badea ^omtSl, writing from his little nest in the West, namely 8128'/, W. Norton Ave., Hollywood 46, Calif. (8128 and '/t—ia Hollywood, yet where I thought they never did things by halves!). Says Baden: "Imagine a guy from '32 writing to the Class See of '33 .. . but that is for many reasons. 
Des Moines held its Untveisal Ni^t ofaicTvatiaa ia ooimectiaa wMi the Drake Kelaym at the end of April, too late to send in a picture of the ercBt. The Qab did, howerer, hold a St. Patrick's evening dinner and apparently •obodf went home sad. 
Every time I get the ALUMNUS I usually read your very interesting 'letter to the boys,' (he's a man, that Baden] because I know so many of that class. Remember in '29 I was a sophomore but stayed on in Brownson for another term because I was the mailman who rang three times a day! 
*I remember also our last meeting—at Dart­mouth when we were both in OflScer's Training for the Navy. 
"I'm not planning on giving you much informa. tion about the '33 men out here because I don't see too many of them, nor of the '32 crowd either. 
"You probAIy knoir that Bea Alexaader is the new president of our local club, a '33 man; that Nick Lukats left here last December for some Veep job in New York; that Le> Raddilz just be­came a father for the SEVENTH time and still finds time to publicize the NBC radio and TV stars out here; that Qeve Carey is adv. mgr. for Rexall Drug with headquarters here. 
"Incidentally, speaking of Rosary reminds me that I attended the sophomore dance there in '30 and Joe Heide went with me too. Several other ND men were along. .. . I think Fred Saite (who lived near Rosary), and probably Flo McCarthy and Terry Dillon also attended it. . . . For a­wbile, in those days, I thought I was going to Rosary instead of ND. (Except for a slight mat­ter of gender, yuk-yuk.) 
"Oh yes. Gene Calhoun, '33, is out here and is a past president of the local club. 
**In case you're wondering about me, I'm in TV. Spent two years in sales with a local TV station, but just moved recently to a firm that makes short commercials for TV and like it much better. 
'^Another thing I like in your letter is your little 'sermon,' as I like to call it. Always makes good reading and I think the boys must enjoy it. This has been a good Lent for me—Mass and Com­munion every morning. 
"Maybe I'll get back that way some time and be able to say hello. If you should ever see Fanl 0*Toole please give him my regards . . . and a penny post card." 
Many, many thanks, Baden—drop us another good letter soon. 
That's my idea of a good letter: long, newsy, and on raps for the editor. Wish his name was Baden-Baden, so I could get two of them! 
We've another ND character around the halls of Rosary these days . . . Bob Keyaokb, of many years in back of us, but in some ways ahead of— well, me, for instance. An ardent believer in a strong Catholic press. Bob staked his livelihood oa it—as editor of the mag TODAY. In addition to that, he is now teaching a magazine-writins class out here. I hope the Rosary lassies catch scale of Bob's fire—we could use good writing by Catho­lics of both sexes in all kinds of periodicals—espe­cially the secular journals. 
Bob telb me that CamU and Setoa Staler are well and happy back in Cincinnati. Like many midlanders, they were in the sea-navy in the last melee. Now CamD is with Flroctor aad Gamble zope, aad Setoa is with a Ciariiaati baldas eoa­cem. Or is it the other way arooad? Aaywacy, I hope the twins doa't get thdr ptoduct Bbed, ia the way that I uadoobtcdly shnffed their jcba. 
The recent UND ni^t here ia Chieaco (de­scribed ia socnewhat nore detail ia My'other col­umn—"Chicago" oader cMb>-«kat thac ALUM­NUS editon have to go throng) was a vcritdUe round-up of NDs yooag aad old bo a aear aad far. Leiame reel off a few of the aaaes I re­member—with doe apolosses to the hoadradi I forget. 
Prcseat were: Jadge lafcr Ekr> >*• McCif tr. h i Ondey, U Slqbaa, Gtoiwe Itaadhe, 
JiB Callnhrr. Bert Mctiacr, BOi Lohr. BM*7 aad Jiai OnUtk, Vmd Cm^m, Chicago efayb presideat Al Stcpaa aad the oOicab aad ifiiBilv ies aad williag worfcert neatioaed ia the Chicaso Club colnma. Yours truly was maaiig anoad hewing photogs aad reporters, so ooolda't catdi all the names we'd like. 
Not moch time or space for the "trraaia" aa B. Powell calls it. Bat I was thiakiag the oAer day ^bout ptayer—how mTsterioos aad ehnnre, yet sat­isfying a thiag it is. Bead a book oa it Md yoa ' are likely to need a prayer or two to kec^ steady —most siidi toaies ead up ia theological shop talk, far over my lowly lay head, or cabbage head, if you prefer. 
So, without imprimatur or nihil obatat froai even a guy named Bishop, mnch less a practiciBg prelate, I've arrived at a coiq>Ie of guide rales which help me, I hope aad pray ,to say my Faten and Aves a little better. Seems to me that the most essential thing is a good iateatioa—i.e., that the tiling you are praying for u not ia' itsdf a bad thing. It may be, probably is with mnst of its, a bit selfish ia iatetcst .. . but they say evea a selfish prayer aever goes waantirrd ia the celestial box score. 
The secoad big thiag I fed is to have detenaiaa. tioB—no DuUter what mood the hwi tiiaihr is ia, short of outright aager, if he sticks ia there aad pimys, over the psotests of his owa iaaer self en a I think he's oa the beaaa. 
That's an over^implificatioa, I'm the fint to' admit, aad as sndi vnlaeTaUe to a aulliaa criti­cisms. But what I oftea fed is a Juw aright aecd for just that qnality^-siMpliBratioa—ia prayer. Take iqi this ipiritaal aaAor aad he asks lor this approach; the aezt aalharity iceoaHMaii mMhw. It's like leataiag goH or bridge: by the time you've taapled this or that style or upmich. haK a life titte hat go \ slams, or Hail Ifaiy'i •» lamliihi d 
So uatn thrcateaed with innm—airitiiai. Ill stick with the umf an, who like it. Thitii i I'm wen backed op, is to addrcia yoar. pn*cn ta the Blemed Mather. Not to ^atXr her, wha waa aad is the aaia^iag "hiilmMilia of the Lord" 
May-fmue, 1951 
—but because as God's mother and ours, she puts the prayer in where it counts the most. Enough for now—write, will you. guys? 
SYMPATm' To Jolm H. Sbedian, on the death of his mother. DEATHS 
Gerald T. Fitzgerald, January* 8. Muskogee, Oklahoma. 
1935 
Here we are again, gang—and it will he ^cn' brief. Wc don't know what is delaying the influx of communiques trom the front, hut the wires >ccm to be jammed- But here is what we have— 
.A belated tnention of the wedding of Ed Kilmur­ray to Irene Margaret AVawrz\Tio%\ski back on January 27 in the Saint Mary Chapel at Cardinal Stritch College in Milwaukee. Ed's wedding an­nouncement and invitation was one of the most interesting wc have ever seen. From the class our best of everything! 
From Tony Kuharich came the following on 
April 2. 
"On March 1, 1951 Judge Luther M. S^Tgcrt of the class of '27, U. S. District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana, appointed RajTnond 
M. Grummell of the Class of '35 as U. S, Proba­tion OflScer to be stationed at South Bend. Ray also has a Master's Degree in Social Work from Catholic University in Washington and will be ver\' valuable in working with me in doing a more efficient job in the Probation Department for tiiis District. 
"I would like also to inform you that Walter 
G. Layden of our class is Chief U. S. Probation Officer for the Eastern District of Oklahoma at Muskogee, Oklahoma. I met Layden at the Feder­al Probation Officer's Institute at Ft. Lee, Virginia last Summer and had a vcr>' nice visit with him. He was sorr>' to miss our class reunion. 
*'Franas L. Tlmne*' of our class is U. S. Pro­bation Officer /or the Western District of Penn­s>*lvania and is stationed at Pittsburgh, Pennsyl­vania. I saw Timney in 3947 at one of the Federal Probation Officer's conferences. He too is doing quite well with himself. 
'*I do not know if there are any other members of the '35 class employed as Federal Probation Of­ficers in any of the other Federal Districts except those already mentioned^ but I do know that there are several other Notre Dame men from other classes employed as Federal Probation Officers." 
Thanks Tony—you have helped us keep alive. 
And from our new class President came this letter on April 16. We arc tranesmitting Bill Ryan's words to you because we feel you ^vill want to read his message. 
*'I hope this letter will reach you in time lo catch the deadline for the next issue of the ALUM­NUS. I've been traveling almost constantly the past several weeks and just haven't had a good opportunity to wxite you. 
"'If you will, please express my thanks to the class in naming me as President for tlic next five years. I appreciate the honor ver\- much and al­though, as yet, I am unacquainted with the func­tions wc class officers are supposed to perform—I will do my very best to carry out any assignments designated by the University in behalf of the Class of *35. As you expressed in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, I wish there had been a lander par­ticipation by the fellows in the election. Over the next few years I hope wc can generate more inter­est on the part of a greater number of our class­mates so that when our 20th reunion rolls around we can double* our record of last year. 
*'0\'er the past several months I had occasion to sec a few '35ers. Ray Mar^ctt, who is brancli manager of our company at WTiitc Plains, was in South Bend in January and, of course, we held our annual bull session. A few weeks ago I met Jim BoHYlrczi in Saginaw, Afichigan. Jim is look­ing prosperous as a star salesman for Bourjois— hoifcvcr I think he would have a hard time getting dou-n to his track weight. 
"Wc had a long talk over several beers. Also saw VaJ Klaiber in Indianapolis a few months ago. He is the same old Val—doesn't look a day older nccted with, I learned that he is selling the wares of a movie company. 
''Noib Hart \-isited me in South Bend not too long ago. He has his own insurance agency in Muncie, Indiana, as well as three husky future football players. 
**In my travels I've been making an effort to contact as many 'SSers as possible—sort of got in the habit since the reunion. Will continue to do so and pass on to you as much information as I can get to help you fill your column." 
Jim Shcib was our Universal Notre Dame Night speaker here in Baltimore on April 2. Speaking on "The Investigative Process in a Metropolitan Area," the Commissioner of Investigation of the City of New York informed and charmed both his dinner and radio audience. It was a real pleasure having Jim in town. 
That's it, gang?—How about it? 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Fisher, a daughter, Mar>' Marguerite, Afarch 29. 
1936 
I5-VEAR REUNIO.V 
JUNE 8, 9, 10 
.-Mrcady signed up for the Three Days: Bill Walsh, Irwin P. Crotty, L. Charles Scbaffler, James Dutton, Paul W. Cummings, Kenneth F. Laws, NLD., \MIIiam J. Schmuhl, George Binder, Rcim 
B. 2[arantoneIto, George £. Melton, Joseph V. MacDonald, Michael J. O'Connor, Hugh E. Wall, Jr., George M- Wolf, George W. Cannon, Jr., Thomas H. Grady, Jr., Leo J. Hofschneider, M.D., Charles D. Fitzsimom, R. A. HerrJj-, Frtd J. Ca­rideo, Larr>- Palkovec, Dale £. Lovell, Louis S. Sansman, A. L. Baur, Jr., James J. Sherr>', Jr., 
E. £. Tobin, Bob £r\-in, Woodrow Stillwagon, George A. Miller, Roman P. Belmont. 
Jcrr>- Vogel, at South Bend's Rive^ Park Theatre Building, reports communiques from the above listed classmates, and in his capacity as correspond­ing secretary* for ihe reunion has several notes to pass on: 
From Bill Boyer: 
•'Tlianks for tlie list of names and up-to-date addresses of the classmates—certainly a handy thing to keep. 
**rm just dropping you a note in the interest of accuracy* and completeness. One oversight in the list is the name of Don AfcKay, our good friend who w-as killed in the war. While you have listed his name, I think you should have noted that he was a doctor, since others in the list arc so noted. 
**Bob En-in of LOBUND, out there on campus, was Don's roommate.*' 
From Joe McDonald: "Hi, Jerry, fellow Sociology-ite!! "It won't be the same without Joe Prendcrgast. You may enter me in the proud parent contest— six bo>-s and one girl.** 
From Art Cranin: 
**Wc would like you to place on the Alumni list with the 1936 class 15th Reunion, Mr. A. H. MfMwnan, Mr. Wally Fnunhart and myself, for this area. Also to advise Joe 0*Nctl and Mr. Wil­liam Shakc^ieaFC that wc arc coming back with the 1936 class." 
Jim Dutton, listed above only recently opened his own law offices in Norwich, Conn., after H years with the Treasury Department. 
Hamilton Calt-crt, still undecided (as of this writing) on the reunions, is assistant to the v.p. in charge of sales of Har\*ell Mfg. Co., Laporte. Ind. 
Father Bernard McCaffrey, C.S.C., writes from Valatie, N.Y.: 
**Many thanks for all the information about the 15th Year Reunion of our Class. I know God, His Blessed Mother and St. Joseph w*ill reward you for thinking of me. To tell the truth that list is the first Fve seen of our class since graduating and it proved quite interesting. 
"As things stand with me I don't think there is any hope of getting back there for the Reunion at that time. However, be assured that each and every one of the mcmhcm will be in my prayers. 
"'I'm enclosing one of my Lapel Rosaries, de­signed in 1948 in honor of the Immaculate Heart of Mary* for AVorld Peace. The Holy Father called it the Golden Rosary Beads when he sent me his special apostolic blessing. So the class of 1936 can thank God, His Blessed Mother and St. Joseph for that grace. 
"I also write a monthly column on the Rosarv for OUR LADY OF THE S.N'OWS, an Oblaic publication of Belleville, III. .At present I'm writ­ing a meditation on each bead of the Rosary'­W^ith the help of God that should keep me busy for the next ten years at least. I also find time lo help Father Peyton in his great F.\MILY ROSARY CRUSADE. 
**May the Mother of God watch over you and all at ND and especially the class of '36—the Class of the Golden Rosary* Beads." 
From Dr. Ken Laws: 
•*ril be there, Jerry, and hope to see Bob Lauer somehow. Tlie class list gives no address on him, but vou might tr\' 7815 Crcssett Drive, Elmwood Park. 111." 
DEATHS 
Felbt B. Zaczek, Jr., Nfar. 20. 
1938 
SYMPATHY To £. B. and R. F. Bernard on the death of their father. 

than in 1935. We matched notes, and although I Mike Seyfrit, center, inspecting the framed scroll he received as Central Illinois' Man­can't recall the name of the company he is con­
of-tfac-Year. Mike is director of the State of Illinois Department of Public Safety 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1939 SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 1944 
.DEATHS 

James H. Graham, March 2, Sioux City, lou-a. 
1940 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. WilUam H. Tucker, Jr., a daughter, Shirley Anne. To Mr. and Mrs. Ed Wurtzebach, a son, Mark Francis. SYMPATHY To Bernard C. Murray, on tlic deatli of Iiis father. AfARRIAGE Miss Vivian E. Repka and Edwin H. Sommerer, Jr., April 27, South Bend, Ind. 
1941 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Paveglio, a son, Patrick Thomxs, Feb. 9, Marquette. Michigan. 
SYMPATHY To Anthony G. Webber, on the death of liis father. To Francis A. Vcit, Jr., on the death of his grnndniother. MARRIAGES Mis.s Dolores Nora Boyer and Walter J. Minder, Dec. 6. 1950, Nurnberg, Germany. 
1942 
From Scoop Scanlan: 
Have just returned from a vacation which in­cluded Texas, ^fissou^i and Wisconsin. 
While passing through St. Louts I had visits wUh Prcs. Jim 0*NeaI and Ed Gricscdeck, via ilie phone. Jim, now the father of five future St. Mar>''s prospects, is with Olean Advertising Agen­cy and has recently moved into a new home. 
He said Ed, and Frank Pollnow helped with a 
"Welcome to St, Louis" party for Larry Ke]Ie>* 
several weeks ago. Larr%- wa.s in town only shortly. 
Ed, busy with plans for the dealers of St. Loui.s* 
big brewery, is also soon to move into a new home. 
He was to Rome for the Holy Year and while in 
New York had visits with Fitzharris Hardat. Jim 
and Ed occasionally get together with Tom Heni­
gan and George Convey-. 
Emmett Wright has been the sparkplug behind the organization of the Century Club, among Cht­cagoans of our class. This group has been meet­ing about once a month, and Emmett is doing a bang-up job of getting our felhnvs together. Sev­eral others are w-anting to come, but other com­mittments have often prevented. Walcli for further details on this Centur>- Club. 
Here's a note from Bob Longpre, now of Mon­rovia, Calif.: 
"Just read a copy of tlie .VLUMXUS gi^'t^ti nie by Gib Zimmerman who lives here in Monrovia and it sure brousl't home a lot of familiar names and places. Don't know if cvcr>' one remembers me, but I was at N.D. with the class of '42 for three years. While I was in service I used to get letters from Doc Walsh and SnufTy Kelly. And they al­ways had plenty of news about the old gang. I haven't heard from either since M6. I'd like to hear from them, ^fy address: c/o Longpre Pontiac Co., 115 E. Foothill Blvd., Monrovia. Calif." 
Our Bemie Crimmins was in the news back in Februar\- when he turned down tlie opportunity to become head coach at the University of Detroit. Ste\-e Juzwik about the same time signed as foot­ball coach at Holy Trinity Iiigh school in Chicago. After graduation he played with the Washington Redskins, Great Lakes. Buffalo Bills and Chicago Rockets. 
The new Catholic parish being oragnized in Park Forest, 111., held a gala party at Olympia Fields Country Club in suburban Chicago a few weeks ago and while there I ran into Wally McCourt and Chuck Carney and their charming xvives. Chuck recently arrived after leaving his native Dixon. 
May-June, 1951 
PAUL FOLEY, A.B . '37, has been made a Vice President of MacManus, John & Adams, Inc., advertising agency with headquarters in Detroit. The announce­ment was made by James R. Adams, President of the firm. 
Foley will continue as account execu­tive on the advertising of Pontiac Motor Division of General Motors Corporation an account of MacManus, John & Adams since 1934. 
Foley joined the agency in 1946 after returning from service as News Bureau Chief for the Office of War Informa­tion in Istanbul, Turkey, and on the foreign staff of Associated Press. 
Before the war he moved over in the advertising business after working on the editorial staffs of various papers in­cluding the Chicago Evening Americaiu 
At Notre Dame Foley majored in Journalism and was Editor of The Scko­lastic in 1937. 
Foley is married and has three chil­dren. He lives at 1211 Willow Lane, Birmingham, Michigan. 
111., where he was one of the chairmen for the recent Herb Jones-Bob Cahill Testimonial Banquet. Chuck is an attorney with tlie U.S.. 5th Army headquarters, still a civilian. 
Tliat's all I have now, but let's hear more from yow. 
Deaths: Mother of Emmett Keenan, March 17. 1951. 
Marriage: Emmett Keenan, Davenport. Iowa and Dorothy Podlcsak. Cicero. 111. Wedding was May 5 at Our Ladv of the Holv Mount Church, Cicero, 
in. 

1943 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Vivian Kubiak to Anthony Girolami. 
From Bin TaKuC: This is the last column by the incumbent secre­tary. It is also the least. The next and all fol­lowing columns until the 1954 Reunion will be written by the newly elected secretary, whose name is unknown to us at this writing. Since it ts customary, the class is entitled to a summing up at thb point. The job lasted two years, or twelve Issues. It entailed writing % per­sonal letter every other month to fifteen or more classmates, begging them for news; and of com­posing a column from whatever came in. Total number of letters sent: 211; total number replies received: 61. That's a ratio of about 1 reply to very 3.5 letters sent; or it means that if you send out 15 personal letters, you arc entitled to a 90-second period of unrestrained glee if you receive more than five letters in return. The cold hard-cash cost of it all: $25.49; the hours spent on the work: in excess of 
122. The hours ought not to be counted, however, since they a^-ailed very little and were rwdcntly a waste of time, judging by the response to the letters. 
It is earnestly hoped that our successor will fare better; and that the class as a whole, realizing the difficulties of the office of secretary, will be more considerate of both the secretary and of their ob­ligation to him in the future. 
During the period December first to March first there were seventy-two changes of address regis­tered at the Alumni Office and recorded in the secretary's files. You never knou' ivhen an old rommate might have moved into town. Contact the neu* secretary or the Alumni Office for the new* addresses of old friends. 
Two neu- changes of address arc reported by Ted Toc^ and Dom Boetto. Ted reports from Atlanta as follows; '*On April 7th I am going to be mar­ried to Miss Ellen O-Shaughncssy in Our I.ady*s Chapel at Notre Dame. Aficnvards we will reside in High Point, North Carolina. 
'*I have been working for the Hemphill Co., manufacturers of Banner knitting machinery for the past 6 months and enjoying my work thoroughly. 
"Notre Dame men seem a little sparse in this section but I did meet Bob Kiexkd, of 1949, when I called at his father's mill in Acworth, Georgia. 
''The lovefaug struck roommates at the same time. Jack McSwccncy is going to be married in the latter part of April to a cute Irish nurse in Cincinnati." 
Dom writes in the middle of March enroute to Pearl aboard his ship, the U.E.S. Arequi'pa (AF­31), which may be reached via the Fleet Post Office, San Francisco. Lieutenant Boctto reporting: "Back at the last five year reunion I guess I should have stayed for the full 3 days and let the Naval Reserve go hang—and consequently I would probably still be practicing law. However, here I am, right where I left off in 1946, a Communica­tions Officer. 
"Haven't run into any ND people of late, though I did get to see the Morrisons and the Wittes on my last visit to ND for a football game. 
"I've got a girl for St. Mary's and a boy for Notre Dame now; each can take up some day where their parents left off. Got those railroad tracks last July.'* 
Another mariner's report, from the log of Ken Brown: "Have just returned from my third trip to the islands of the Caribbean. I ran into only one Notre Dame man down there, Cesar Munecas, in Havana. Cesar is married, has a lovely little daughter and is employed by IngersoU-Rand. I was in Havana for four days and he and his wife feted me royally. 
''I haven't heard a word in years o! Bill Scbeucb, Jim Landgren, Jim Constantin, Strattc Coorlas, Frank Vlgnola. Perhaps this appeal will bring a response. Ji^inny Banm might also make himself known. 
"For the past three years I've been an Instructor in Spanish at the Maine Maritime .Academy (Cas-tine, Maine). I ako double as baseball coach. I spend three months out of every winter in the Caribbean area on a training cruise. Bill Scbench 
,will be interested to note that I ser\'e as Purser aboard the ship. 
"I've been married for four years and am mo­mentarily expecting what I hope will be the first of many children to come." 
31 
And hence to a pair of medical reports, from doctors John Utz and Jolin O'Neill. The latter Jack is at the Hospital of St. Raphael, New Haven, Connecticut, "as Resident in Medicine." But I've been called to active duty w-ith the ^ r Force Reserve. Report June 30 to Westover AFB, Mas­sachusetts, and a medical group with ^I.A.T.S. 
"Haven't seen my old roomie, Frank English, 
since last Xovember, but we hope to gather soon." 
Jack Utz is on a fellowship at tlic Mayo Foun­
dation (Rochester). His address, 202 13th Avenue 
N.W. He reports that "of the five hundred of us in training there are a good number of Xotrc Dame people, though none from the class of '44. Under the sponsorship of Dom Judge wc arc or­ganizing a Xotre Dame group of a sort, though ihc transient nature of our stay here more or less prevents a permanent club. 
"We sec a good number of priests here from school and a lot more pass through the clinic ^t-itbout our seeing them. Last summer we had a fine time with Father John Burke, VP of ND, who went through the clinic and spent an evening wth us and a number of Notre Dame people in town. 
" *Us,' by the way, now includes my wife, Doro­thy, whom I met in Boston while interning, and our two children. We are very pleased to be here, but expect eventually to settle near Washington, 
D. C. 
"I wish it were possible to see you again, Bill, and you have an open imitation any time you arc out in this coimtry. This applies naturally to all the fellows who I remember with such affection from the da^'S of the Bookmen and the \VrangIers. The only one of these I have seen since coming here was Jim Nen-man, who spent an evening with us, and rekindled our recollections of school and fellow students." Readers %s-ill likely remember Jim's lengthy letter on his peregrinations which appeared in the last issue. No flics on him! 
That is all the correspondence we have, aad the most we could possibly drum up. However, there remains a report from this sector on the at­tendance at the Easter Monday Glee Club Concert given by the touring Notre Dame Glee Club at the New York Athletic Club. 
It was difficult to catch sight of everyone at so big an affair, and we ask the understanding of those we may have missed and whose names are not included hereafter: Bill Harford, a district sales manager for Prudential, was down from up­state. Andy BaibicFC, escorting Grace Edwards, shared a table with George Barisdllo, legal expert from New Jcrse\*; the class secretary and his date; and Marge and John Duffy, who are still blissfully happy over the recent addition to their family unit. John ^vas recently elected a member of the Board of Governors of the Notre lyamc Club of New York. 
Bill O'Connor and Joe Tracy were ditto %%-ith dates. Of the sportsmen, there was Bill Fallon, chairman of the NYAC tennis committee; Frank **Stogie** Conforti, and Greg Rice, who was a lap ahead of the field all evening. The big news of the evening, however, came when law\*cr and class­mate Jim Sullivan announced his engagement to Miss Mary Robinson. SuIIiv-an was the hottest Samba man on the floor all evening, and little wonder. 
.And so all our knowledge is exhausted, and our reportage at an end. What remains js an exhorta­tion, borrowed from the column of John L. ^N^g­gias, 1943 scribe, as it appeared in the December, 1949, ALUMNUS: 
**. . . The success of the class cohimn depends upon the contributors. For this issue I mailed two dozen postcards seeking information and re­ceived but ONE reply. Not a sharp percentage. 
**We would like to ask that when you receive such a card you answer with another postcard with information about yourself or any others in the dass. 
"Here are the figures to prove Just how simple St task this should be: if I should contact 20 men per issue, you would have to pause only a couple of minutes every two years to send a postcard. My immediate sources of infonnation are limited to classmates in the Chicago area. For that reason yoa may read lome names more frequently than otfaen. This is not by design; j cannot write about those from whom I have no information. 
"And so, brethren, ends the sermon. Don't for­get! Just tui-o minutes each t^-o vears. Thank you!" 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
WILLIAM H, RICKE, '38, formerly Field Kepresentative of the Plomb Tool Com­pany, Los Angeles, Calif,, has been ap­pointed Assistant Sales Manager in Charge of Georgia, Alabama and Flor­ida, it has been announced by Tom Moule, Sales Manager. 
In his new capacity, Mr. Ricke will supervise all sales activities in these three states, serving the many jobbers and distributors who sell the company's line of "PROTO"-brand mechanics' hand tools. His headquarters will be in At­lanta. 
Prior to his appointment, Mr. Ricke was Field Representative in the South Texas territory for more than 4 years, serving under his uncle, R. C. Ricke. His previous experience included 4 years as a consulting and mechanical engineer for various engineering firms in Detroit and Los Angeles, and 2 years as a tool and die designer for the Ford Motor Company in Detroit. 
During the war, Mr. Ricke was in the 
U. S. Merchant Marine and reached many combat areas. His college and sub­sequent training included courses in ac­counting, law and engineering. He is a member of the Automotive Boosters Club, makes furniture with power tools as a hobby, is married and has a son, aged 3. 
And goodbye. "Shove off. Coxswain; you've got your orders." Aye, aye. 
BIRTHS 
To Ihtif. and Mn . Jolm 0*ConDcU, Genevieve Rose, March 29, in Green\alle, South Carolina. 
To Mr. and Mn . Robert W. Dunn, Barbara Lee, March 24, Buffalo, N. Y. 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Mary Frances Brcen and Dr. MatAcw J. SuIUvan. Miss Imelda Sheedy and James T. CUuas. 
 1945 
Al Lesmrz writes: Thought I was in the editorial doghouse over having no news in the last issue until John Bums Griped a plea and admitted he hadn't sent out deadline notices. If and when you see this in print you'll know Lesmez isn't alibying. AN ANNIVERSARY: 
This issue marks the completion of the first year that your secretary has been handling this most pleasant of hard jobs. I say pleasant because even though there is some fairly steady plodding to it, tlic reward of heaiing from so many of our old camptis pals and roommates, and of being able to pass on the news to the rest of the class . . . the reward of realizing that the class is getting strong­er and morc.tmitcd all the time because of it . . . is a truly happy and completely satisfying one. 
You, the gang of '45, have made this unity pos­sible because it has been your letters, postcards, and notes which have been the backbone of the column. Let us continue in that work, aiming directly at having one of the best class reunions ever held, in June of 1955—only 4 years away now. 
We have grou-n to the point where we are ready for real organization. Our class is in need of a President, Secretary-, Treasurer, and four Regional Vice-Presidents (one for the East, South, Mid-West, and Far West). In the next issue of the ALUMNUS I will outline the method we are go­ing to use in electing our class officers, and we will then proceed to get ourselves an organiaztion which will coordinate and build toward our 1953 date. 
In the meantime, you who have not written your friends of the class through this column, do it right away. We want to hear about you and your family, so make a note on your memo pad to "DROP AL A NOTE RIGHT NOW." DID YOU KNOW THAT: 
Bob Morrisscy is now Prater Dunstan, O.S.B., a Benedictine monk .. . that he is at St. Bede .Ab­bey, Peru, Illinois . . . that several times a %vcek he sees T. Bowycr Campbell, who is living at the abbey and teaching history . . . that Jack Trcacy spent a year with the USNR on active duty aboard the USA ATA 216 right after his graduation in 1945 . . . that after that year of navy life he went back to Notre Dame for a Master's degree in Chemical Engineering . . . then to the University of Wisconsin for two and a half years of Doctoral work in ChE under Prof. Farrington Daniels . . . that his Doctor's degree is pending Jack's passing his reading knowledge of German . . . that Jack has returned to Notre Dame as an instructor in Chemical Engineering, teaching Kinetics, Fuels, Stoichiometry, High PoI>-mers, and Design , . . that his address is 825 N. Notre Dame Avenue, South Bend, Indiana . . . that John B. Caron's address is Box 408, Rochelle, Illinois . . . that Joe Lauck is working in Long\iew, Texas, helping to put up a new plant for the Rcilly Tar Products Company . . . that Father RJcbard Timm, C.S.C., is taking graduate studies in biology at Catholic University in Washington, D. C , preparator>- to teaching in St. Gregory's College, Dacca, East Pakistan (formerly Bengal) . . . that classmate Fatber Bill Donahue, CS.C , is also at Catholic University training for teaching in this country . . . that Mike Garry is still in the grain business . . . that hd is still single (therefore he's sure of being able to make the reunion in '55) and he says: "We'll have some reunion if wc keep up the good effort" . . , that Charies J. Wolf has been married 4 years . . . that he has two little Wolfi to date . . . that he has been going to night school at the Illinois Institute of Technology . . . that Charles is an employee of the Standard Oil Com­pany of Indiana . . . that he saw Byron Martm at school . . . that Byron is employed at Com Products . . . that Maiv IVoscbc is a Sinclair Oil employee in Illinois . . . that Ted Ryan has started private practice after spending five years as attor­ney for the Sute of Washington . . . that his Uw oBce h known as Lindberg and Ryan, located in the Falco Building, 9300 E. Sprague Street, Dish-man, Washington . . . that Ted would like to hear from all the old friends, especially from Jim Kaac, Sam Alooii, Bob Oberfdl, and all the rest who haven't written in yet . . . that Ted's cousin, Ted Cammmgs, also *45, is in Seattle, Washington, and the father of four charming "brats" . . . that the Sadowski Company, for which Dick SadowsU works has undertaken a. Urge project in Marathon, Florida, called Marathon Shores, in the heart of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

the /abulous Florida Keys . . . that Ray Bad-dour was the assistant director of the Engineering Practice School at the Atomic Energy Plants in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, from June '48 to August '49, before becoming a graduate student at M.I.T., from which he plans to graduate in June of this year with a Doctor's degree . . . that Jim White lives at 348 E. Madison Avenue, Dumont, New Jersey , . . that he is married and the proud papa of 2-ycar-oId Patricia Ann, and 1-year-oId James, Jr. . . . that he is still with the New York Foot­ball Giants as team captain and tackle . . . that Jim has spent some of his time off (from football) operating a restaurant and tavern . . . that Harry Ryan lives at 35 East Pierce Street, Coldwater, Michigan, and is employed by the Douglas Mfg. di\^ion of Kingston Products Corporation as a Sales Representative . . . that Harry's duties are mainly selling, and travelling around various cities holding sales meetings . . , that Harry is married and that he has a l/a-year-old son, Michael Pat­rick (for the lack of an Irish name) . , . that Harry saw Jim DiHmelly and Jim Casey the Ia;t time he visited New York . . . that we of the class want to hear from YOU so wc can include YOU in our column. 
"LETTERS FROM" DEPARTMENT: From Dave Cartwrigfat: "I heard from ^Villie Wrape several weeks ago. He's shipped out to places unknown from New York on theBB63, "New Jersey." He was recalled in October, 1 think. His brother, AI, is married now and is still expecting to be called to duty. 
"I would like to announce to you and to the rest of the class, our third child—bom January 8. The new arrival is 6 Ib.-5 oz. Roberta Jean. She sure is a peach of a girl. I've got two boys, as you know . . . Darid, Jr. {ZYJ) and Thomas J. 
(1J4). The wife, kids, and myself are well and getting along fine. 
"My construction business is going along pretty well aside from the weather. I've had 10 houses scheduled for completion by July 15. There arc two up for sale now, and two others under way— we need the weather to dig out the other six!! 
"With fotu" dependents and being in the re­ser\-es, I can't say how I stand with the USNR, but I guess they're taking everyone. I aon'l recall writing you since our big bang-out reunion last year, but in case any of the class asks you if we had fun, you can count my vote as an emphatic 'yes*—four more years is a long time, but if I'm around, I'll be there. Next time you send in your column, please mention my regards to all the gang, and especially my old NROTC buddies." ­
From John Hosbein: "I am working with an in­sulation manufacturing company in Aurora, Illi­nois, trying to improve working conditions and plant efficiency. George Jeschke, my V-12 room­mate, is in Park Ridge, Illinois, in the haberdash­ery* business. He was married to Miss Joan Busch in January. I had lunch with John Horrigan, who IS with the National City Bank (Credit Depart­ment; recently. He is married, and liring !n Joliet, Illinois. His wife presented him with their second child on December 4—another boy. John started at N.D. in the Fall of '42, as did many of the class of '45 who were accelerated into the V-12. 
*'Our class is quite varied in that we all gradu­ated together but commenced our work at N.D. at different umes and pursued several different pro­grams there—civilian, V-12, NROTC, Marines, and what-havc-you. Best regards and good wishes to «1L" 
From Father Mark McGrath, C.S.C.: "I don't know ij you wilJ rememoer me, Al. Wc were in 
Y.C.S. together at Notre Dame until I went across St. Joe's lake to the seminary. I was ordained in Panama (my home is in the Canal Zone) in 1949, and studied last year at Paris, continuing this year at Rome, for a Doctor's degree in Theology. 
"Father Bob Pelton, C.S.C., also a '45 from cam­pus-to-seminary priest. Is here in the same study. Father Ned Joyce, CS.C , '37, studying at Oxford. IS here for the close of the Holy Year with ha brother, Lyie Joyce, '43, who will get his doctorate in Literature from the Sorbonne in Paris this com­ing June. Regards to all." 
(I certainly do remember you. Father McGrath! 
Y.C.S. used to be Catholic Action at that time, and the many talks we had will never be forgot­ten. I even remember that first day. May 26, 1942, when I puUed up behmd Brecn-PhilliiK hall in a 
May-June, 1951 
Dies in Air Crosii 

Maurice £. Mahon, '50, kiUcd April 28 ' in the crash of a commercjail air liner near Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Recently appointed as an FBI agent, he had graduated from the University in Jan­uary, 1950. He served two years in the Navy in the South Pacific, as a signalman. 
The son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Ma­hon, he is survived also by two sistcis. Sis­ter Mary Mcllita, R. S. M., of Detroit and Mrs. Jack Loutsch, of Schenectady, and a brother Joseph, ol South Bend. The father, better known as "Eddie" to generations of Notre Dome students, has been employed in the Chemistry Building for over 35 years. 
taxi, somewhat dazed from my first trip away from home, and not knowing exactly what to do next. 
It was you who met me by the door, helped me to carrj' in my trunk, showed mc my room, gave me my first Notre Dame pep talk, and even told me how much the taxi should cost so that I would not be cheated. Sure do remember you, Mark!) From Jim Retter: Just a note, Al, to at least show that I am thinkmg about my class obligations. My Av'ife and I welcomed in the New Year at a party given by Jim Dugan (he started out with us at N.D.) His brother, Paul, was also at the party. Of course the three of us held up the honor of 
:\'.D. I ran into Tom Kennedy about two weeks ago. He started out with us also. He is selling lor Broun and Bigelou- here in Cle\'eJand and was transferred here from his home town of Milwau­kee. Remember me to all the boys." 
From John Ryan: '*Sorr>' to have been so negli­gent in keeping you up to date on myselt. VThen T left the Nav>-, I returned to the Harvard Business Administration in June 1947. I went to work for Conn. General Life Insurance Company in Boston, and was transferred to Htbbing, Afinn., in June, 1948. I married Nancy Richards (sister of John Richards, *40) in December, 1949. A son, John, Jr., arrived October 10, 1950. I certainly do enjoy reading about the class in the ALUMNUS." 
FrcHU John Terry: **Many thanks for the XMAS card, and my best regards to all the class. I am now a lawyer, associated with Smith and Sorik. 300 Wilson Bm'Iding, Syracuse, N. Y. Bob McAti. liff, '49, is also in our ofBce. I am also a member of the Onondaga County Board of Supervisors, representing the 12th Ward, elected in '48 ana *49. 1 am also the president ot the Notre Dante Club 
of Central New York, CoBmaader of Ch^tcr W, Military Order of the Pmple Heart, Sector Cam­mander Civi] Defeme, et c So yoa can lee why I haven't written sooner; I keep foirly busy. 
Beudcs all this, I am maxried to Jean Phdan, a Syracuse gradnate, and cKpcctiag another NJ>. booster in early '51. My amof oatlook as a rescxve 2nd Lt. Is ??? What do yon hear from Jade Ak^ Cari Look, and BOi Rahkrtt? TeU them aU to write in." 
From John 0*Ro«fcc: "Ran into Joe Syhrcstcr, in­surance tycoon, several times. When Joe reads this he will scalp me as I have a standii^ hmdi­eon engagement with him whkh I have failed to fulfill. I also saw Hm Donnrlty taking his usual Fifth Avenue promenade. At one of the recent New York Alumni OtA meetings I had a good time talking things over with Jim Qfma, Bmtf (the hofse) Wahcn, Bob Walsh, Charier DMW . Jack McCabc, Jack Noona , and Bob RiMitcr. Best of luck to aU." 
From Raal Enwsto Castro Mnxo: "As you know, I am married and have a 3-year-oId girl named Maria Dolores. I am still working for LA MEX­CLADORA Cta. as an administrative engineer. I am the Chief Production Engineer and Woiks Su­perintendent. My first job after leaving Notre Dame was with LA CONCRETERA Cia. of Coin, from whidi I was sent to my present positioa in Venezuela back in August of 1948. 
While in Cuba I saw rnri^nr Alias and hii father (also N.D.). Lnis SmUk, AKrcdo «jMilh. ArtmD Castro, and a few others whom I cannot remember right now. But tell the gang that I send saludes to all." (Rani Castro's address is Ave. Guaicaipuro, No. 58, Apto. 2, El Rosal, Caracas, Venezuela.) 
From John Brenahan; "After leaving Notre Dame I saw a little service overseas. When I retnmed, I ran for, and became Sute Representative in Massa­chusetts. I was just re-elected for my second term. My wife, Agnes, and I are very happy with our children. John is 2!4; Michael is VA; and Agnes ^fary is almost 6 months old. 
"I was back on the campus in 1947 and in ISSO for a visit with Brother Conan and my many friends there. I saw the last Pitt-N.D. game m South Bend in November. Frank Dancewics and Mike Manao are coaching at Salem Hi ^ school, Mass. "Boley" has 2 children now. Harry Ryas dropped in last Fall to sec us. Fred BSekey is a dental student at Tufts." 
From George Dequt: "Too che;q> to use station­ery! I'm economizing anyway, so am writing this letter on the back oC your form. But to cut every­thing short, I'm practicing law now and am find* in;; it a tough grind. I\'e just been at it for n couple of mouths. My secretary is out of the office now so I have to type ibis myself. I haven't typed for a long time, so overlook the errors. Apolo^es! Apologies! 
"Next day. .. . I had to rush out yesterday which may explain the poor start that I xnade on this letter. It just ha^tpens that I do have sta­tionery, but the back of your form was handier. Another thing. Despot has no secretary. The fact of the matter is that I'm practicing law on a budget and can afford only my own services. A young lawyer is summscd to have a hard time of it anyway. 
"I was very glad to hear that Betty has been abl* to put up with you uncc you two were married. I did have a doubt here and there! Advirc her that if she can stand it for another twenty years, she will probably be nDle to go all the way. 
"I beUeve that I am gomg to get married my­self some day, but it is just a bit indefinite at the moment. Seems there is the problem of making a living that stands in the way. It's the same ^1 , Fearla Tinsley. 
"Be sure to give my best to all the boys. I'll write again soon, but I have to sti^ maw became I have to be in Court by ten this morning." (George's wit is still sharp as ever. His office is in the Ricou Brewster Building, 419, in Shreve­port, Louisiana. Write again soon, George, and give our love to Pcarla.) 
Fraai Hm Schwckhcrt: "Nothmg new nor startling has hi^ipened lately except my appointment last year to the job of Director of Social Service at the Cambri^ Sute Hoqrital, Cambria, CNiio. That came very shortly after my graduatiiw froa 
33 
Ohio State in the Master's program. I am find­ing the work fascinating and am enjoying a little pioneering in my particular institution. This little town pleases me so much that I have begun to dig in my permanent roots. 
'*Dr. Paul Scott Stokely hails from Cambridge and was instrumental in making me feel welcome. Wc got together on his occasional vacations from the biology department. Brother Germain Faddoul has a sister here but as yet we haven't met. ily wife and I send you our best regards, and be sure to say 'hello' to the rest of the class.'" 
BUGLE CALL 
U'c received only one mih'tarj' ieiter this issue. Wc feel that there should liave been more. So write in and let us know where you arc stationed. 
From Jadt Guthrie: "I'm a (j.g.) in the Naval ^(edical Corps doing radiolog\* and medicine. Get­ting married to a Philadelphia girl. Philippa Bcatty by name. Taking the big step in June. She's a good friend of the daughter of Dan R. Young, '22. 
"I've been in the Xa\y about 18 mnoths and may be getting out in August of this year provid­ing nothing drastic happens. 
"John Dowling, an N.D. prc-mcd classmaie. Just reported to the hospital for duty. Have run into numerous Xotrc Dame classmates in the Xav>\ and expect to sec many more now. .AI Brozo, '41. is at Lakehurst Naval .Air Station. Dan Johnston, *46 or "47. is an intern at the Naval Hospital. Spoke to John Dntze at the Philadelphia Club breakfast several months ago." (Jack's address is 
U.S. Naval Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.) 
THE '45 CL.ASS SPOTLIGHT 
This month T wrote to one of the classmates vho I thought had been one of the most popu­lar students while at N.D. and told him he had been selected at random, as all the others have been, to be the center of attention of our column. He wrote me thanking me, but telling me: ''.\I. please don't put me in the SPOTLIGHT." I feel that there is no room for modesty in our class, and so am sorrv- to have to do this to you. Phil Martin. 
SPOTLIGHT ALU'MNUS 

Philip Patrick Jr., came to Notre Dame from Grossmont High School in Santee, California. He spent most of his time at X.D., rooming in either St. Ed's or in famous and revered Sortn Hall. Phil received his degree in June 1945 as a Badiclor of Science in Chemistry. It had been hard work all the way. Phil helped his finances through school by working at almost evcr>'thing available from dining hall waiter on campus, to part-time indus­try- work in South Bend. 
In spite of this work, Phil enjoyed excellent grades and a popularity which were the results of his quiet, sincere, conscientious manner. Many will remember walking into Sorin. turning a little to the left, and walking right into Phil's .ALWAVS WELCOME room. Phil, with a bashful smile and his eas\- blush, will be remembered by all the class for a long lime. 
Wiilc at X'otrc Dame, Phi'l served the Knights of Columbus as Chancellor for a year and a half. He was a member of the Student Council and a mainstay on Coach Langford's NCA.A champion­ship tennis team. Some of his favorite college pastimes were competing in interhall football and Softball games, and of going witli the boys into town for those sessions at Rosie's or at George's. 
After graduation from Xotrc Dame. Phil re­mained on campus to do some graduate work. A year later lie obtained a position as a laboratorx­instructor at Marquette University in Milwaukee. The pay from that position helped him to finance hU way through Law School, getting his degree from Marquette in November of 1948. A short time after that Phil was admitted to the Wisconsin Bar. 
In June 1949 the strong California yearning in Phil made him go back there, and he has been there ever since. He works for the Trust Depart­ment of the First Xational Trust and Savings Bank of San Diego, and is hoping to get his membership in the California Bar soon. 
Phil and his wife, Kayc, were married in the Log Chapel at Xotrc Dame on July 5, 1947. They arc now the happy parents of 2'/2-ycar-oId Anne, and I-ycar-old Michael Kevin. 
Phil-tells me he is happy and getting along ver>­nicely. He promises to try to make that next re­union, and invites anyone from the class who passes by to visit him. His address is 3684 44th Street, San Diego 5, California. Wc of the class wish you 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MR. TOUHY 

Al Touhy, '31, one of John Nicholson's brighter track stars has been appointed director of security for Republis Avia­tion Corporation. 
Al practiced law after graduation and joined the FBI in 1941. He directed some of the Bureau's important investi­gations, climaxing his cai-eer with the Alger Hiss case. 
For his work on the Hiss-Chambers episode he was cited in a special com­mendation by FBI director John Edgar Hoover. 
Included in Touhy's FBI work were investigations covering the Sam Can-case involving the Canadian atom spies: the Serge Rubinstein case, featuring the notorious millionaire draft dodger of World War II; the public confessions of Elizabeth Bentley, author of a recent book fingering doubtful security cases in the State Department; the Wolf son case where smuggling of 60,000 tons of dynamite to Israel was prevented; and the Martin Monti World War II treason case. 
A native of Winfield, Long Island, Touhj' is 41, married, and the father of two children. 
continued happiness and success. Phil, and hope to hear from you again soon. 
YOUR SECRETARY REPORTS 
.\ recent "quickie" trip to Chicago Heigiits, Illi­nois, was the occasion of my bumping quite acci­dentally into Otto Shandcr. He looks happy and easy-going as ever, is still in the bachelor rants, antl is working in bis dad's Rnn. We almost didn't recognize each other, whicli shows how easily time, and the actix-ity of the daily running around, can make you forget even such a good friend as Otto and so many of our classmates. 
Wc just didn't recognize each other even though wc bad been together practically every day while at N.D. It certainly was good seeing Otto again. 

While in Chicago Heights I talked at length with BHI Waddjngton over the phone. He and his wife, Dottie, and his two lovely girls, Mary and Kathleen, arc well and all arc happy. He asked me to remember him to the class and especially to his NROTC classmates. 
Guess that's all the news for the time being. Let me hear from you, and in the meantime, good luck in your work, and in all your plans. Sec you next issue. 
Your class secretary: Al Lismez, 61-56 82nd Street, Elmhurst, New York. 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Marita Ryan and George C. Haggerty. 

1946 
MARRIAGES Miss Sue Skahcn and Elmer Angsman, -April 22. Chicago, 111. 
1947 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. McBridc, Catlierine Jean, March II, South Bend, Ind. 
MARRI.AGES Miss Doris Maretta Bohanan and Dr. John Arcadi, April II. Baltimore. Miss Wanita Turner and Edmund Ball, April 1, South Bend. 
a 

1948 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Patrick H. Martin, Mar>­Ellen, April 16, Green Bay. Wisconsin. 

To Mr. and Mrr. Richard E. O'Coimell, Jr., Sheila Jane (Peggy), March 23, Marshall, Minne­sota. 
SYMPATHY 
To George Kashmer on the death of his father. 

MARRIAGES Miss Katherine Mary Mines to John E. Cos-gnn-e, Jan. 27. Waukegan. III. 
1949 

From John Walktr: I just want to thank all the forty-niners who came through with contributions to the column­Don't get much time to circulate among the troops, dashing from my tower here in the Field Building to my cottage forty miles out in Elgin. So thanks for the news, gents, and keep it coming. By the way, in case anyone's interested, I*m copytvriter for the Roche, Wilh'ams & Clear>' advertising agen­cy here in Chicago and have been same ever since graduation day in '49—two years ago. 
Has it been that long? Well, on to the news of the day. 
A lot of the lads are back in uniform again. A card from Lt. Earl E. Moscnbach tells us he's just finished 3rd SBC course for Marines down in Quantico, Virginia, and has been retained there as an instructor in tactics. 

Ens. Paul Stein writes from the X'aval Supply School at Bayonne, Xew Jersey, that he and the yavy arc doing fine. Paul tells us that many other N D grads are in training at Bayonne. 
A correspondent who seeks to remain unidenti­fied rela>-s the following to us: Jack Dw-f-er is with a Military Police unit at Camp Rucker, Alabama, likewise Gene Jones and Gerry Bcgley. 
Austin McNididas is in the insurance game and recently became the father of a baby boy. 
"Moose" Fischer, my old neighbor in Dillon Hall, John Holknvay, Joe Archibald, Phil NfcDonald, Bill Archibald and Terry Brcnnan spent their Thursday nights this winter running a close third in the Oak Park, 111., Municipal Basketball Tour­nament, playing under the flag of Joe Ford Real­tors. **Jafce" Weber took the bows as coach. 
BUI Fischer is recovering from an arm operation and will be with the Cardinals again this year. 
The Notre Dame Alunihtii 

JcJin Holloway is with the engineering department of US rubber. Joe ArdubaJd married Claire Dale>' in January and is doing expediting work for Jef­ferson Electric. Flul McDonald is an insurance adjuster while brother Tom was recently promoted to assistant manager of the Congress Hotel in Chicago. Bill Ardiibald is with the Hines Lumber Co., and will become a father for the fourh time before long. Terry Brewian coached Mt. Carmel High School to Chicago's City Championship last fall and expects to be married early this summer. Don Weber is with McGarry Nut Products in the sales department and recently became engaged to ^(e^cedes Quinn. 
John BnMlcridc, currently of the US Army, plans to many Mary Jane Kcllchcr before long. Roger Brown, also of the same employer, and Rita Kelly hope to be married soon. Jack Butler, now with the MP's at Fort Bragg, is engaged to Barbara Stebcr. 
Ray Monaco, an electrical engineering major, claims the Army has him re-wiring the Pentagon. 
Mike Fiuno is engaged to Jane Jones. 
Ralph Hingcr is coaching high school fcamj; in Ohio. Dick Kluck is in the Army, probably pitching his way to a commission. 
Jack Lambert joined the Dominican Order and is studying at their House of Studies at River Forest, III. 
Frank Murmane is married and is keeping the Murmane Paper Co. a going concern. 
Hal Quinn of Chicago, has been living down 
East doing engineering work at Washington and 
recently became a father. 
Pete Keman writes from Detroit as follows: *'My father Peter J. Kcrnan, Sr., passed away on Octo­ber 2. He had been ill for some time. I have a new job with the Ford Motor Company. I was transfered from the administrative dcpt. of the of­fice of a manufacturing vice president to the Dear­born Specialty Foundry where I am doing work on a new process. 
'*! am Secretarj'-Trcasurcr of the Notre Dame Club of Dearborn, an Alumni Club in its second year of activity. Here are the names of Dearborn­ites which are probably familiar to '49ers: Jack Courtney, Larry Dolan, Tom Dore, Tom Eagan, Jim King, Lcc LaRocquc, Gerr)- McGinnis, Cass Rcjent, Jerry Sarb, John Schacfer, Frank Sieraw­ski, Jim Stevenson, George Tobin, Tom Tucker and Jerry Wa>-no.** 
Pete Brown favored us with a letter and here's 
part of it: 
**Gus Sweeney is completing his second year of 
Law at Northwestern and sells coal on the side. 
Bob Bates is selling stoves across the length and breadth of Northern Illinois and doing very well at it. too. Jim Butz is still grinding out publicity for Wilson. So far he has ghosted five books on golf —but still hasn't broken 90 (ain't it the truth, them that can't, teach) Tom Brady is married and is publicity director for the Athletic Foundation. Bill Halligan is sales manager of the radio division of Hallicrafters. By the way, my brother Roger who is doing PFC duty at Ft. Benning, Ga.. ran into Frank Spaniel at Benning. I understand Frank got a commission as an athletic ofliccr." 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Leander proudly annotmce the birth, April 9, of their daughter, Mar\- Lynn Leander, at St. Frauds Hospital. 
.And Mr. and Mrs. John A. Reitz wish to an­nounce the arrival of their daughter. Connie, on the 14th of February* in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Bill Pfaff, formerly assistant editor of '"The 
Commonweal" is taking Army training in South 
Carolina. 
Ian l.andry and Louise Lenz were married at 
Aiken^ South Carolina. April 28th. 
That's all for now, gentlemen. 
Bill Brcen graduated May 12 from the Williams 
.Mr Force Base, Chandler, Arizona, as a Lieuten­
ant in the U. S. Air Force. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Mylcs H. Quail, Jr., John Christopher, March 5, Branchville, Md. To Mr. and Mrs. Richard Howell, Richard Don­ald Howell II. March 27, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Julie Lulu Sullivan to Eugene F. Maguirc. Miss Patricia Rose Hyland to Robert R. Uhl. Miss Frieda Nagy and James Brian McCarthy. 
May-June, 1951 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Mary Regina Reynolds and Jim Tyrrell, Sept. 9, in Memphis. Kliss Dorothy Jean Robinson and James E. Odcm, .Apr. 22, Houston. Miss Maiy Ann DeGarmo and Philip R. Clcary, Nov. 23, in Niles, Ohio. Miss Margaret Miriam McGrath and William G. Leonard, Jr., Mar. 26, in Schenectady. Miss Ann Govel and Raymond Zasada, .April 15, at Albany, N. Y. DEATHS 
Lt. ^Villiam P. Finch, USMCR, March 2, in Korea. Killed in action. 
1950 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Mary A Pepin to Robert J. Sippel. Miss Mar>- L. Hauger to Leo G. Mahoney. 
MARRIAGES Miss Gabricllc Marie JfcCarlliv and Tboinas F. O'Neil, Feb. 2, New York City. Miss Catherine Regina Hanny and .Arthur Bot­tle, Jan. 20, Brooklyn, N. Y. 


Sessler Is Royal Fellow 

Professor Stanley S. Sessler, Head of the Department of Fine Arts at the University, has been elected to member­ship in the exclusive Royal Society of Arts in England. 
The Koyal Society of Arts was found­ed in London in 1754. Purpose of the elite society is to encourage the cultural development in arts on an international scale, and to maintain and stimulate in­terest in art education and improvement in artists' materials and techniques. 
Professor Sessler, one of few Ameri­cans ever to be recognized by election to the Royal Society of Arts, joins the roster of some of history's most promi­nent artists who have been elected to membership in the Soicety. Early mem­bers of the Society included such world-renowned men as Samuel Johnson, Sir Joshua Reynolds, Oliver Goldsmith, Thomas Chippendale, Robert Adam, William Ho^uth, Sir Thomas Law­rence, Sir John Uillais, and other ar­tists, designers, poets, musicians and literary figures of history. 
Professor Sessler, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1928, was named Head of the Depart­ment of Fine Arts in 1937. During World War II, the Notre Dame artist served as an Intelligence Officer in the Air Force. 

CLASS SECRETARIES 
1890­1899  1930  DEVERE  I^UNKETT,  Social Science  
1900­1904 ROBERT E. PROCTOR, Suite 201 Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Ind. 1905­1909 1910 1911 FRED L. STEERS, 105 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 1913 PAUL R. BYRNE, University Library, Notre Dame, Indiana 1914 1915 JAJIES E. SANFORD, 1429 W. Far­ragut Ave., Chicago 40, 111.  19311932193319341935 Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana  WALTER F . PHILUP, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Sq., Philadelphia  JAMES K. COLUNS, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, Ohio  JOSEPH D . A. MCCABE, Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois  EDWARD F. MANSFIELD, 6575 N. Glenwood, Apt. 1, Chicago, 111.  FRANKLYN C . HocHRErrER, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.  
1916  GROVER  F. MILLER,  612 Wisconsin  1936  JOSEPH F. MANSFIELD, 423 S. Main  
-Ave., Racine,  Wisconsin  St.,  Crown  Point,  Indiana  
1917  EDWARD  J. MCOSKER,  2205 Briar­ 1937  FRANK  J. REILLY,  1651  Metropoli­ 
wood Rd., Cleveland Hgts. 18, O.  tan Ave., Apt. 7F, New York 62,  
1918  GEORGE  E. HARBERT,  108 North  N. Y.  
Main St., Sycamore,  Illinois  1938  CHARLES  M .  CALLAHAN,  Sports  
1919  THEODORE C. RADEMAKER, Peru Foundr)- Company, Peru, Indiana  1939 Publicity Dcpt., Notre Dame, Ind.  VINCENT DECotnisEY, 1917 Eliza­ 
1920  R.ILPH ^V. BERGMA.V, 1609 N. Jef­ferson Ave., St. Loius, Mo.  1940 beth, Kansas City 2, Kansas  RICHARD BURKE, 146 Paxton Dr.,  
1921  DAN W . DUFFY, 1101 NBC Build­ing, Cleveland 14, Ohio  1941 South Bend, Ind.  JOHN W. PATTERSON,  JR.,  5530  
1922  GERALD A. ASHE, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, New Yoric  1942 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa.  WILLIAM E. SCANLAN, 400 E. 111th  
1923  PAUL H. CASTNER, 1305 W. Arling­ton Ave., St. Paul, Minnesota  1943 St., Chicago 28, Illinois  JOH.N L. WIGGINS, 11404 Rupley  
1924 1925  REV. THOMAS A. KELLEY, C.S.C, Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. JOHN P. HURLEY, 1218 City Paric Ave., Toledo, Ohio  1944 Lane, Dallas 14, Texas  GEORGE A. B-ARISCOLLO, JR., 515 5th Ave., Bradley Beach, New Jersey  
1926  JOHN J. RYAN, 2434A\-e., Chicago, Illinois   Grcenleaf  1945  .'VL LESMEZ, 61-56 82ndhurst, New York   St., Elm­ 
1927  FRANK  MORAN, 633 E. Monroe St.,  1946  JOHN TENOE, JR., 912 Lovett Blvd.,  
South Bend 6, Ind.  Houston,  Texas  
1928  LEO R. MCINTYRE,St., Allentown, Pa.   3004  Turner  1948  HERMANN A. Zrrr, Dayton Product Co., Warren at Apple, Dayton, O.  
1929  DONALD J. PLUNKETT, Biology De­partment, Notre Dame, Indiana  1949  JOHN P. WALKER, 135 S.St., Chicago 3, Illinois   LaSalle  
35  

GIFTS for ALL 
FOR THE FAMILY 

Here is on ideal gift for the family. The unique Notre Dome dinner plate, handsomely embossed, with on impressive montoge of campus scenes on one plate. Perfect too for escutcheon mounting or as a decorative piece. 
$1.75 
SONGS OF NOTRE DAME 

Students, Alumni and Friends, here's something that will be enjoyed by the entire family . . . R.CA.'s new record album containing the Songs of Notre Dame by the Notre Dame Band and Glee Club. The cover of the cose will please you with its photographic reproduction of campus scenes. . . . Then too, the resords are plastic and unbreokabte. Records Custom Processed and Pressed by RCA-Victor and produced and published by Recorded Publications Company. 
0 C c 
A 
s 
I 0 N 
s 

CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES TO TOAST NOTRE DAME 
At party time, .'reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertoining will be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors. 
TO oz. glossef S4i25 doz. plus $1>2S express charges 14 oz. glasses $1.85 doz. plus $1*25 express charges 
NOTRE DAME "JOE COLLEGE JUNIORS" 
How proud your youngster will be and how cute he'll look fine wool knit, genuine reproductions of Notre Dame honor sweaters . . . sizes 2 to 12 . . . Cardigan style— 
$6.00 
Ord*r thuA. on pog* 39 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
from the 

TRIM MONOGRAMMED NOTRE DAME WINDBREAKER 
A snug handsome jacket of lightweight poplin for year-around wear . . . has slash pockets, full zipper front, raglan sleeves, and adjustable elastic sides . . . treated with Du Pont Zelan, and permanently vat dyed monogrammed with official Notre Dame seal. 
$6.40 

NOTRE DAME "SHIRTS FOR SQUIRTS" 
What a thrill youngsters will get wearing their own Fighting Irish polo shirts. Not only popular, but practical too because they can be worn anywhere and are easily washable . . . Every youngster wants one, so don't forget this economically priced gift , . . Make a hit at a reasonable purchase price. 
$1.25 
N 0 T R E 
D A M E 

N. D. HEAD SCARFS 
Fine spun rayon, fringed edge head scarF. Water repellent, crease proof. Large size 33" x 36". Colors—white or yellow. Boxed individually. 
$1.40 

Mm'S N. D. 'T ' SHIRTS AND SWEATERS 
The "T " shirt you've been looking for . .-. the volue and quality we've been shooting for. Quality yarn, white, quarter sleeve, complete with Notre Dame and seal processed design in blue. Small (34 to 2&\ Medium (38 to 40) Large 
'^^•°^' . $1.25 
MEN'S N. D. SWEATSHIBTS 
Grey or white fleece-lined sweatshirts with design the some as "T " shirts. Small, Medium, Large. 
$2.50 

Order Blank on page 39 May-June, 1951 J7 
THE PERFECT GIFT 
Notre.Dame Rosary for men and women— Unbreakable sterling black-^.50 Block Beads—$3.85 Ladies' Rosaries in all sterling silver— 

$6.00, $12.00. Pearl-$12.00. Sterling Silver Scapular medal with 2" chain for men, same design as rosary center piece—$2 75 
N.D.POLO SHIRT 

New, fine quality polo shirt with Byron collar, ribbed bottom, combed yarn, firm interlock stitch. Colors white, yellow, or gray. Sizes—Small, Medium, or Large. 
$3.20 
B 0 0 K 
S T 0 R E 
BOYS N. D. SWEATSHIRT 

Chrisimas, or any other festive occasion can't help but be a hit when this Notre Dome sweatshirt is port of the gift or.'oy . . . This sweatshirt, with the famous N. D. monogrom, mokes it most attractive lo real Ail American boys. 
Sizes 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14. 
$2.00 
GIRL'S N. D. 'T ' SHIRT 

N. D. "T * shirt for girls, styled for feminine wear. Stylish ribbed short sleeves end bottom. Fine quality combed yarn, firm knit. Colors—white or yellow. Sizes—Small, Medium, or Large. ^ 
$1.50 
Order Blank on page 39 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ORDER BLANK 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
NOTRE DAME PLATES—$1.75 Quantity Plates 
SONGS OF NOTRE DAME—$5.00 Quantity Albums 
"JOE COLLEGE JUNIORS"-$6.00 Sizes 2 to 12. Ages 9 mos. to 1 Vi years designate size 
2. On others list quantity desired, age of child and check whether they are small, average, or large for their age. 
Quan Age S A L 
Quan Age S. A. I. Quan Age S. A. L. 
NOTRE DAME DRINKING GLASSES 
doz. 10 oz. glasses—$4.25 plus $1.25 mailing cost. Total—$5.50 
doz. 14 oz. glasses—$4.95 plus $1.25 mailing cost. Total—$6.20 
NOTRE DAME WINDBREAKER—$6.40 
Please check quantity and sizes desired. Quan Small (34-36), Quan .Medium (38-40). Quan Large (42-44). ^ 
"SHIRTS FOR SQUIRTS"—$1.25. Sizes 2 to 14. Pliease follow identical instructions as with "Joe College 
Juniors."  
Quan  Age  S  A  L  
Quan  Age  S  A  I.  
Quan  Age  S  A  L  

NOTRE DAME Quan 
Quan 
MEN'S N.D,"r' 
<-,--=«g 

MEN'S N. D. SWEATSHIRTS—$230 
Sizes small (34-36), medium (38-40), and Icrgis (42­
 HEAD SCARFS—$1.40 
 Scorfc — White 
Scarfs — Yellow 
 SHIirTS--$1.25 
44). 
Send 
Send. 
NOTRE DAME Quan Quan Quan 
Quan Quan 

" T " shin($) in OZKI-JL.! 
 Sweatshirt(s) in size—. 
— white -gray 
 ROSARIK—Men end wonen. 
 unbreakable sterling block—$7.50  block beods—$3.85  Ladies' Rosary in oil Sterling silver— 
$12.00 or $6.00  Ladies' Rosory—Peorl—$12.00  Scapular Medal—$2.75 
N.D. POLO  SHIRT—$3.20  
Sizes small, medium, oror gray. Quan SizeQuan Size  large.  Colors white, Color  Color .'.  yellow  ;.  

BOY'S N. D. SWEATSHIRT—$2.00 Sizes 4, 6, 8, 10. 12 and 14. Quan Size . Quan Size —. .. Quan Size 
GIRL'S N. D. "T" SHIRT—$1.50 Sizes small, medium, or large. Colors—while or yellow. Quan. Size . Color ..... 
Quan Size Color 
Qudn Size . Color .. 
— Please forward me your complete catalogue. 
All prices quoted iitclude handling and mtuling costs. •  
PLEASE SHIP TO:  
NAME......  
ADDRESS..  
CITY.  J  Zone  STATE  
Enclose check or money order, or merchandise may be sent C.O.D.  

May-June, 1951 
Faith in the Future 
Afi Editorial 

Problems of the University of Notre Dame today are different from the problems of earlier days. 
But it would be presumptuous to say that they are greater. That is why it seems now, as it must have seemed to Father Sorin in the restless days at St. Peter's near Vincennes, that faith—in the future—depends upon faith in the future. This is not a trick of punctuation, but an answer to the success of Notre Dame. 
What must have been the discouragement of a v/ar that shot off a great section of the States from which Notre Dame had begun to draw enrollment, and demanded from the other States the cream of their youth? Surely that war was more serious in its enrollment implications than our present crisis, proportionately. 
What must have been the discouragement of the news that overtook Father Sorin that his majestic Main Building— then the center and the bulk of his University — was a smoldering ruin? 
And so the parade of problems has passed with the pro­cession of Presidents. It would not be possible to say that one was greater and one was less. Each in his niche of history met and solved the handicaps of his era. 
And the common denominator was faith—a faith that carried with it the corollary of faith in the future. 
Today's problems are great. Most of them cannot be met in the measure of men and physical stamina and courage and faith that for many years produced the solutions. Notre Dame today is expanded in a complex economic structure that must rely on the common denominator of economic life— money. 
But money is neither the end, nor the sole means, in solv­ing the 1951 problems. 
There remain in the University of Notre Dame those peren­nial truths and principles and beliefs and motives that in every 
•ra have made strong the men in whose hands the great destiny of the University has rested. 
All that Notre Dame must do today is to add to the tra­ditional demand of the years for "men of courage and faith" the longer phrase "men of courage and faith with money." 
But it is important to consider several modifying and softening aspects of this blunt truth. 
Some of us are blessed with money, but our supply of courage and faith is taxed in the daily challenge of our own business or profession or problems. Notre Dame is staffed with an administration which in the name of Christ foreswore the advantages of money, but who in His name can supply rich resources of courage and faith to implement money given to them by those who believe in the cause they serve. 
Also, we must be cognizant that the term "money" is not only the magic of the six or seven figure check from the exceptionally endowed benefactor. 
It is, almost more importantly, the dollar or the two or the five or the ten or the sometimes exceedingly generous tv/enty-five, from the carefully considered budget of the many. The comment "almost more importantly" stems from the feeling at Notre Dame that in these small gifts, pressed from the urgencies of the lives of the laymen, there resides not only a substantial financial lift, but a powerful by-product of the very faith in the future and the courage that the total picture demands. Notre Dame believes that the implications of these high qualities in the small gifts of the alumni and many friends of Notre Dame have been ci definite factor in enlisting the interest and the generous support of larger benefactors. 
This is the year of a great challenge, in the simple' urgency of existence. The simple declaration of a traditional faith in the future that the Alumni Association asks its mem­bers to make for Notre Dame is 100% participation. It can be $1 or $100 or $1000 or $1,000,000. Notre Dame received all of those amounts last year, and appreciated each. If you have reached this year a financial crisis of your own, we will credit your prayers instead, if you will advise us. 






