The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
*
S# 
0t> 
<^^ 
#' 
I 
IS 
l^f^^T"! 
• 
i II 
i 
StaSJ 
NOTRE DAME 
list Charley Phillips, John Cooney, Knute Rockne, Dave Campbell, Paul Fenlon, Act Haley and Jim Arm­"/ well remember the shock . . . I saw not only students but strong among many, many others. 
priests openly smoking cigarettes on the campus." Each did something special for me 

Aiunmi Ask 
that was to become a part of my 
ABOUT REUNION SEMINAR 
I managed to miss the five-year Class 
Reunions with relative ease. Last 
year my 35th was on deck and I 
realized my future choices were nar­
rowing down. However, there was 
still some reluctance, bom of thoughts 
like "WiU I know anybody?" and "I 
don't like beer." 
The clincher in making the deci­
sion to go was the announcement for 
the Alumni Seminar. It wasn't the 
topic ("Has Change Run Away with 
the Church?") that intrigued me so 
much as the opportunity to be ex­
posed to the current tliinking of 
people outstanding in their fields of 
theology, history and religion. Had 
the seminar dealt with some other 
topic of interest presented by equally 
capable people, I would have been 
drawn to attend. 
Through attendance at the seminar all Thursday and through Friday noon, I found a kind of acceptance and renewal of my contacts with ND that made the subsequent Reunion seem especially pleasant. 
Few of us have the time and in­clination to explore in depth the great issues or changes in our time. We are increasingly reliant in every area of knowledge on the capabilit)' and good will of the specialists. At the seminar it was evident the specialists were devoting their lives to consider­ations of our relations with God in this changing world. There was a great sense of exploring together, both in a new world and in a very old one. The simi of my reaction to the seminar on change and the Church is a feeling of gratitude and confidence that, out of the probing and searching of such talented men and women, a more vibrant Church will arise. 
WailAM C. J. JONES '32 
Rochesler, NY 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The seminar, "Has Change Run Away with the Church?" will be repeated for re­turning Alumni Saturday, June S, of Reunion Weekend in the Center for Continuing Education. 
ABOUT "CONTINUING EDUCATION" I was first amused and then very concerned by the January-Februarj­editorials of Dr. Tom Carney and "Bud" Dudley. 
The reason for my concern is the Alumni apparently have not kept in step with developments at ND and the need for "Continuing Education" or "Continuing Progressive Educa­tion" has been late in developing. May I suggest that a progress report such as the "President's Letter" be 
sent to each Alumnus monthly. 
My amusement came from the fact 
that an Alumnus can get so exercised 
about a disciplinary change which he 
probably rebelled against when a stu­
dent. I well remember the shock I 
received when returning to the Cam­
pus in September, 1919. I saw not 
only students but priests openly smok­
ing cigarettes on the Campus. Then 
too, when you consider the telephone 
was relatively new — no television, 
etc. — you begin to appreciate the 
wonderful benefits God has given our 
generation. It seems to me our prob­
lem is we have not taken the time to 
understand what is happening. 
Just another fact which might start a little reconsideration — the superla­tive job a majority of the Alumni have done since 1945 when "Kid" Ashe, Ed Bailey and I persuaded the new President of the Alumni Associa­tion, Tom Byrne, to reorganize the Association along corporate lines just as we had done in NYC. Would you believe the income of the Alumni Association the previous year was about $19,000 whereas the next year under the new concept it rose to $57,000-plus? 
Then we set up the Foundation and you know the record of the past 20 years! 
I mention this material change to suggest to the disturbed critic that a comparable intellectual advance has taken place, but this advance has been so rapid the Alumni have not been able to cope with it. The answer, it seems to me, is the expansion of the "Continuing Education" program. May I congratulate the man or men who conceived this program so the ND graduate will not use his diploma for a crutch but rather as a ticket to a "commencement" in the great gifts God has given him. 
JOHN T. BAiFE '20 
NYC 
ABOUT ND'S COMPASSION My concern for ND began more than 40 years ago when priests and laymen expressed care for me, a stranger. They were solicitous about my learn­ing enough to make something of myself. They were even concerned about where my next meal was com­ing from. And they did something about that, too. 
When I think back to the solici­tude, for me, of Fathers Charles and Hugh O'Donnell, Peter Hebeit, George Marr, James Stack and Pat­rick Carroll, I feel a token of appre­ciation is the very least I can offer in return. At the risk of sounding like the chanting of a litany, I add to the 
sword and buckler. For instance, one of my annual de­lights is dining with Father Hebert at the Morris Inn. He always seems amazed when I recall so many of the incidents and so much of the sub­stance of his 1925 Latin class. What he doesn't realize, or perhaps has modestly forgotten, is that he freely gave me so many of the tools that have helped me to survive. But I know it, and my memory of it will ever be vibrant and green. He was willing to smoke community stogies so I could one day puff a Cburchillian cigar. Isn't this concern of the rarest kind? And isn't it typical of the men who have labored at ND from Father Sorin and Father O'Hara on to Father Hesburgh? So, you see, my "concern" is only a feather in the wind compared to ND's compassion for a boy with stars in his eyes and only coppers in his pockets. I tell people that if I live to be a thousand and could give ND a million, I should be making only a paltry down payment on a huge debt. Many don't seem to understand this. I tell them that, after praying for my family, I pray first for ND because it and the men mentioned above de­serve so much of my gratitude. They don't understand this sometimes, either. It's been said that every man sooner or later comes to love a person, a place and a thing. Perhaps this is what John of Gaunt was talking about in Richard II. He had found his blessed plot — a precious stone set in a silver sea. Well, ND is my place and if I have finally written a love letter that long needed writing, so 

be it 
FgANKLYN DOAN '29 WUmetle, III. 
ABOUT JAM SESSIONS Let me have my two cents' worth con­cerning the controversial conduct of students during football weekends. 
I try to attend at least two or three games each year and I find the situa­tion growing worse each weekend. I'm certainly no "square," but it's at a point where I'm embarrassed to take a friend to see the beautiful, peaceful Campus I try to brag about. Oh, I don't mind an occasional stereo play­ing fidl blast on a window ledge or various signs or slogans in front of every haU. This is all part of the big weekend. 
But these so-called jam sessions at Badin and Sorin are the sort of things I must protest What frame of mind can one be in visiting the school for the first time when standing in front of the school's most inspirational land­marks and then hearing the less in­spirational jam session at Sorin, some 



In This Issue 
200 feet away? 
My recommendation: Have one band only conduct a jam session each football Saturday and keep them as far away from Sacred Heart as pos­sible. I want to be proud in every respect of the school I love so much. 
JOHN S. COBTZ '62 Toledo, Ohio 

ABOUT WAR AND PEACE Lt. James Emil Pavlicek '65: another life squandered in the Great Ameri­can Adventure in Southeast Asia. I don't remember a Pavlicek from my tour at ND, so I can't claim to mourn him. But maybe those who do remember him, who knew him, who liked him, who taught him, who loved him, maybe one of those who knew James Pavlicek will accept his death as a shock treatment, cut off his own daily anesthetic shot of mind­less patriotism and begin to wonder what the carnage is really all about. Only then can it be said that James Pavlicek's death was not in vain. 
I assume he was prepared to meet his death, trained to kill and be killed, by the same ROTC program which you tentatively "review" in your January-February issue. It's a Fact of Life. After that title, the rest of the "review" is superfluous — "a fact of life" is a neat summary of your unthinking, uncritical attitude toward an institution so in need of a thorough examination. That ir­responsible, shrugging attitude, espe­cially on the campus of a major uni­versity, only contributes to the over­development of our military muscle and encourages the kind of adminis­tration thinking which jumps at mili­tary "solutions" as soon as our ado­lescent foreign policy fails diplo­matically. 
The alternatives you list "For those opposed to military service in general, or to service during the war in Viet­nam ..." do not include one of the simplest and surest courses of ac­tion: Turn in your Selective Service Registration card to the Justice De­partment and mail your latest re­classification card to your local draft board, notifying them you will no longer co-operate in a system of mass-murder. 
This action almost automatically qualifies you for membership in an organization called "The Resistance," and for a stay in a federal prison. The personal consequences of this action are bound to be severe — for most, army life would be softer and shorter. And the political conse­quences are vexingly problematic. I indulge in a profound and daily-justified pessimism about the resur­rection of the national conscience. Personally and politically it's a bad bet, but in these times it's about all 
(Continued on page 2) 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
Cover Story page 12 
These days anyone looking for religion on the Notre Dame campus will not find the traditional exercises in the traditional places. That we can say for sure. And there are other things, too. But full explanation of the Alumni's favorite subject, nicely packaged in one feature article, is impossible. Religion on the Campus today has its roots in the years before O'Hara came to Notre Dame. And it has a fervor and momentum that will carry it well beyond the present era of the guitar Mass. Our story has no beginning, no end. It's a continuing thing we hope to dis­cuss in other issues of the ALUMNUS. This time we've merely tried to find it. 
Lactare Medal page 8 
One staffer who helped in our search was Dick Riley '68. As student edi­torial assistant, he has been "our man" on the student scene for the past year. One of his assigimients was R. Sargent Shriver's January ad­dress to the student body. But little did we know then that he also was photographing this year's Laetare Award winner. Riley will be leaving the campus beat with his graduation in June. Up ahead is graduate work in journalism. 
Editorials page 2 
Alumni Secretary James Cooney '59 discusses the changing role of the Alumni; Richard Rossi '69, student body president-elect, defines "student power"; Richard Conklin '59 questions the criteria for the Laetare Medal; Ken Woodward '57 challenges Alumni on the race issue. 
The University 
page 
When are the girls coming? What's the Campus political pulse? Who's the Laetare Medalist? Which groundbreaking is coming up next? How are academic policies formulated? Who's been doing what? What's new to read? 
Classes page 18 
Behind the scenes at the track meet, a description of the Class of 1928, a report on the "new soldier," the Alumni fund tally, ticket info, spotlights, congrats, class columns, the law school, the graduate school, statistics. 
Clubs page 50 
The changing Church causes Clubs to continue classes; UND Night marks a special anniversary; SUMMA dinners caught by the camera; Club secretaries report 
Sports page 55 
The first Dec-lightful trip to the NIT; everything's coming up spring football; "Mac" hangs his up for the last time; some shorts, too. 
New Feature: From Far-Flung Correspondents page 59 
All is not calm in Korea—^Lt. (jg) 
1968 NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS, Uni­versity of Notre Dome, oil rigfits reserved. Reproduction in whole or in port without written permission is prohibited. 
 Tom Doty '66 tells all. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is pub­lished bimonthly by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dome, IN 46S56. 
March I9<8 April 

Vol.44 No. 2 
a decent young fellow can do for openers. 
DAVID CLENNON '65 New Movent Conn. 
ABOUT BUDAPEST 

Some months ago a letter in the ALUMNUS asked ND Alumni for their opinion of the Vietnamese war. In response, let me say that after seeing television films and newspaper pic­tures of Allied troops, tanks and planes "pacifying" Saigon and a score of other South Vietnamese cities, I could recall only one com­parable scene: Budapest in 1956. Then patriots attempting to topple a Soviet-imposed regime were la­belled "Fascists" and crushed by Rus­sian tanks. 
Now, indeed for the last seven years, we have seen Vietnamese na­tionalists battling a series of corrupt, American-imposed client "govern­ments" indiscriminately branded "Communists" and attacked by US occupation forces — causing 100,000 civilian casualties a year (all "ac­cidental," of course), making 20 per­cent of the population refugees, and devastating not only the countryside but even the capital itself. If it is not obvious by now, history will surely judge Vietnam to have been America's Hungary. 
Support our boys .. . in Canada! 
HOWARD J. DOOLEY '66 Cailhersburg, Md. 
ABOUT THE "POLICEMAN" Human history, prudence and basic moral sense all dictate that war is justifiable only when it is the last resort of defense. As in our courts of law, the key qualification is "beyond a reasonable doubt" Upon examina­tion of the facts available to the public, we have what we consider to be reasonable doubts about American involvement in Vietnam. 
In general we have what we con­sider to be reasonable doubts about America's role as the world's police­man, as the champion of a crusade against the mythical dragon of mono­lithic Communism; about the "Do­mino Theory"; about the wisdom of the entire Dulles-Rusk approach to international affairs; and especially about the incredible power of an ex­ecutive branch of government that can fight a major war without the constitutionally required declaration and with enormous resources of con­scripted manpower; and that can dic­tate foreign policy through its own State Department and CIA without continual candid and complete review by the legislative branch. 
In the light of these doubts, we hold the war to be unjustified. We plead with all Americans who have similar reasonable doubts to use all the legal pressure at their disposal to effect a complete Congressional re­view of our Vietnamese, if not our entire foreign policy, already begun by the Senate Foreign Relations Com­mittee and by other members of Con­gress, especially the Brothers Kennedy and Sen. Mark Hatfield. LET THE JURY DECIDE! 
JOHN DOUGLAS CANfieiD '63 
Gainesville, Fla, 
ABOUT THE PEACE OF CHRIST 
I realize the military has a long his­
tory at ND and many consider it a 
proud part of the ND tradition. I 
think this is unfortunate because there 
should be a conflict bet^veen waging 
war as a soldier and being a Christian. 
Speaking for myself, I can't allow 
myself to become a soldier and par­
ticipate in modem warfare which I 
believe to be immoral. 
There is another tradition at ND besides the military one, although not as well known or as active. This is the Third Order of Saint Francis. It's made up of a group of students who follow the Third Order Rule of Saint Francis and in his Rule Saint Francis says the members are not to bear arms. So, there is another tradition at ND besides the military one, a tradition that follows the peace of Christ and not the horrors of war. 
As a student I belonged to the Third Order on Campus and after my graduation I became a conscien­tious objector and later a member of the Catholic Peace Fellowship. The military may be a fact of life at ND but so is that part of the student body which is opposed to the mili­tary. I think it is unfair to write these people off as simply draft dis­senters; the issue is much deeper than that. The issue is whether or not a Catholic university should allow the military on Campus. 
GARY JONES '65 SeputvedOf Co/if. 
ABOUT STUDENT POWER 
It's about time the emphasis was placed on the things that make Notre Dame a university. For too long it has had to wear the mantle of a "school for boys." 
Those graduates who complain about relaxing student discipline and the development of student power would do better to abandon their dated attitudes and recognize this is an era of individual discipline. 
How many can remember "borrow­ing" candles from the grotto to il­luminate late night sessions ? It would be excessive to mention the numer­ous other incidents of rationalized disregard for discipline. In what manner did this add to student de­velopment? 
Students are clamoring today for what they consider to be rights. Every right carries with it a responsibility. This, then, is what is emerging; not student {rawer, but student respon­sibility. 
SALVADOR F. lECCESE '64 Kealakekua, Kona, Hawaii 


Asking Too Much? 
By JAMES D. COONEY 
IDENTITY crises seem to be the ' bane (if not the vogue) of our existence today. The Church, the political state, the family, the uni­versity . . . none of these has escaped the wrenching experience of excruciating introspection and external scrutiny. Notre Dame it­self has borne its share of that con­cern, of that soid-searching pursuit of identity. 
On our 125th anniversary last December, Father Hesbur<;h re­ferred to the cntics and their theses: that the terms Catholic and university are contradictory . . . that the Church has no role in the modem university, that a university cannot be both free and Catholic. And. he then proceeded to tackle the inquiries, to unveil the identity as he sees it . . . Notre Dame, as all that a great university must be . . . and something more. 
His "Vision of a Great Catholic University in the World of Today" is perhaps the most significant doc­ument on the subject since Card­inal Newman evoked his Idea of a University over a century ago So, we've charted our course and set our sails in pursuit of the vision realized. 
But a imiversity is not a set of principles and commitments any­more than it's a collection of ivy and towers. It is essentially people .. . people grappling with prin­ciples, forming commitments, ex­ercising virtues, in the pursuit of wisdom. The experience charts individuals, and often irrevocable destinies. And, the efiBcacy of the institution becomes crystallized within the people of the place, and the products of the experience. 
We now know, more tangibly than ever before, what Notre Dame as a great Catholic university means. In this issue of the 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 ARRIL 

EDITORIALS 
COONEY ROSSIE 

ALUMNUS, a pointed question is raised: How special is the Notre Dame man? While the inquiry stems from a single source, and rises from a singular set of circum­stances, there is a dimension here which ought to be explored. And perhaps it signals our own identity crisis. What does it really mean to be a Notre Dame man? Is there something at all special about the designation, above and beyond the obvious (and documented) gen­eralities . . . that Notre Dame men make good husbands and fathers, reliable parishioners, conscientious employees . . . that we "keep up on" national affairs, vote regularly, read fairly frequently, and support a measure of community projects . . . that we are admired by our collegiate counterparts and others for our esprit de corps and fierce devotion to Alma Mater . . . that our scientists and engineers, our attorneys and businessmen, our ed­ucators and industrialists need take a back seat to no one in terms of professional competence? To steal a contrast from Father Hesburgh, we are all of these things, and we are proud of these things . . . but, 
should we be something more? 
As individuals, we've fought and died from the rolling hills of Get­tysburg to the jungles of the Mid­dle East. With our o\vn minds and our own hands we've fashioned resolutions to physical and social ills, and administered them in the villages of Cambodia, the Alteplano of Chile, our own courts of law, chambers of government and ghet­toes of despair. We've written, performed, sung and uplifted. We've procreated (some blame the waters du Lac) and educated. And, as individuals we've influenced, permeated and redirected the lives of many. The record is illustrious, and stands imimpeached, on its merit. 
What then, is the issue? Are we 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1948 APRIL 
CONKLIN WOODWARD 
as a conglomerate, as a collective 
entity, to be judged on individual 
commitment and achievement, or 
do we as a group share common 
concern and commitment not only 
in the personal sphere, but in terms 
of the burning moral issues of our 
time? Do we speak as one? Do 
we reflect the goals and values of 
the institution which united us in 
our formative years? 
As I see it, that's the rub. For better or for worse, we carry a banner, a reputation, the fabrics of which are our o\vn lives, our o\vn sentiments and accomplishments, in counterpoint to the institution which gave us light. 
Notre Dame, since 1842, has undergone birth pain, fire, famine, disease, bankruptcy, and identity crisis after identity crisis. That history is also recorded, and stands unimpeached, on its merit. In the year 1968, as our nation is engaged in a holocaust many thousands of miles from our doorsteps, and brushfire engagements around the world, as half the world's peoples eke out lives of torment and des­pair, blinding poverty, and crip­pling disease, as inhumanity to man continues and our cities bum . . . can we become involved, not as in­dividuals, but as Notre Dame men? Is there really a "something more" about us? Can we use it? 
Should we? 
JAMES COONEY "59 is executive secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Associotion. 
.. . and that's the Rub! 
By RICHARD ROSSIE 

I 
N the November-December, 1967 ALUMNUS Prof. Frank O'Malley wrote concerning the Notre Dame students: "To bum down the 
Dome is not their objective . . . 
only to make the fact, the history, 
the symbolism of its history more 
meaningful, more radiant than 
ever before." The students at 
Notre Dame are indeed seeking this 
goal, seeking a Notre Dame that is 
more open, more tolerant, more 
exciting. The recent election of 
the student power candidate ioc 
student body presidency is a sin­
cere manifestation of that desire. 
First, perhaps it is necessary to state what I mean by student pow­er. Student power means not only the ability to influence decisions but also the ability to make de­cisions. It implies two distinct ideas: the right of students to self-government, to self-determination in matters concerning their purely {lersonal lives; and the right of stu­dents to participate meaningfully in all decisicm-making processes which affect them as students. Stu­dent power does not mean students should "run the University." Stu­dents should not and are not able to "run the University." 
But students must be taught to govern themselves democratically; they must be taught responsibility. The University as an educational enterprise must provide the situa­tion in which this can occur. And we cannot be taught to govern ourselves imless we are indeed al­lowed to do so; we cannot be taught to exercise power without giving us power. The movement for student self-government is a part of the drive for democracy; it is an attempt to create com­mimity among the students. 
Student government is now to­tally committed to obtain self-gov­ernment through all means which are open to it and are consistent with the demands of justice. Stu­dent government is committed to creating channels through which students can operate in helping to make decbions pertaining to their Curriculum and to the quality of the teaching they receive. 
The University will be presented with a plan for setting up a stu­dent - faculty - administration com­mittee which shall have the power to evaluate the present educational environment here and to initiate experimental courses or projects. ND is simply not doing its share of experimenting in education or seeking new ways of learning. We intend to work to change this situ­ation. 
The legislation of the Student General Assembly shall be kept be­fore the Administration with dili­gence. And we shall expect them to act both positively and respon­sibly upon it — and act soon. 
Student Government, through its service branch, the Student Union, shall expand its academic and cul­tural programs. In the area of human affairs we intend to en­courage more students to work for the elimination of racism and dis­crimination in housing and labor. We intend to launch a vigorous campcugn to encourage not only Negro and Spanish-American stu­dents but also non-Catholic stu­dents to attend ND in our effort to create a more diversified atmo­sphere. 
In closing, let me say this. What we are demanding above all else is to be taken seriously. We insist on being treated as adults. If we are responsible enough and ma­ture enough to help build com­munities in the ghettos and to be required to fight in a war of ques­tionable morality, then surely — just possibly — we are responsible enough and mature enough to do as simple a thing as govern our own lives and conduct. 
Is that too much to ask? Is it so much to ask, to expect to be a real part of the university com­munity? Is it too much to ask for representation on those councils which make decisions we have to live with? If all this is too much to ask and too much to expect — and I sincerely do not believe it is 
— then ND is asking too much when she says she is striving to be one of the truly great contem­porary universities. 
ND students are askmg the Alumni for help; we are asking you for understanding which we know will be hard for many of you to give. But ND men gen­erally do possess the element of faith. We are asking you to be­lieve in our hop)es and our ideals and to have faith in us and in this new Notre Dame we are creating. 
RICHARD ROSSIE, a junior history major from Clorbdole, Miss., is Noire Dome sludent body president. 




A Time for Re-evaluation 
By RICHARD CONKUN MA '59 
||oTRE DAME'S Laetare Medal, " awarded an American Catholic layman each year on the Fourth Sunday of Lent, is among the best-known achievement awards in the country. Looking over the list of the 86 persons who have received it since Father Sorin and Father Thomas E. Walsh announced the first winner in 1883, one is struck by the diversity — artists rub shoulders with soldiers, actresses follow industrialists, and there is even one publicist. Some names are still etched in history and others (for example, "1891—^Anna Hanson Dorsey, novelist") have not been treated kindly by the pass­ing years. 
The award was conceived in a time when being a Catholic in a nation of white, Anglo-Saxon, Prot­estants was to have citizenship on the periphery. The Laetare Medal served to call needed attention to Catholics who were making solid contributions to the life of the na­tion. However, both the United States and the Catholic Church have come some distance since the 1880's, and there is reason to re­think the three criteria for the award: American, lay, and Cath­olic 
My own thoughts on the mat­ter came about as I indulged in the time-honored game of choose-your­own - Laetare - candidate, and I should like at the outset to at­tach two disclaimers to these thoughts: they are not meant to reflect disparagingly on this or any other year's medalist, and they in no sense represent any official mus­ings on the part of those connected with the award. 
My own 1968 favorites were Emile Cardinal Leger and John 
U. Monro. Leger had given up his Montreal archbishopric to serve lepers in Africa, and Monro had resigned his Harvard deanship to work with freshmen at a Negro college in the South. The actions of both served to recall the charity which should be Christianity's bed­rock, and both exemplified service, a concept which may yet provide common ground for the Christian humanist and secular humanist in the mid-20th century. 

But, alas, Leger is not American and not a layman; Monro is both, but not Catholic. 
The easiest change to defend, I think, is that of widening the award's horizons to include the world. In 1883 Notre Dame touched only the United States, but now the world is its concern. Its sociologists are at work in South America, its conferences are international in scope, its students come from 50 foreign countries, its president heads the international organization of Catholic univer­sities, and so on. Also, the election of John F. Kennedy signaled the entrance of Catholics into the mainstream of American life, and there is no longer the same 1883 need to emphasize the compatibil­ity of Catholicism and American life. 
While changes in the focus of the University argue for an interna­tional award, changes of emphases within the Church present the case for both delaicizing the medal and making it ecumenical. 
While maintaining a distinction between the role of the laity and that of clerics and religious, the Second Vatican Council dwelt heavily upon the notion of the "People of God." It said both 
AlUMNUS MARCH ^9iS APRIL 
clerics and lay persons share In the priestly, prophetic and royal of­fice of Christ and noted "diere is diversity of service but unity of purpose." Granting this, a strong case can be made for widening Laetare Medal provisions so as to make clerics and religious eligible. 
On the last point, Notre Dame could make its own distinctive con­tribution toward fostering Chris­tian unity by broadening the Lae­tare Medal to include all Chris­tians. The best argument for this step is the Council's Decree on Ecumenism. 
What we would then have is not, as some opponents would claim, a "characterless" award, but one which would be as symbolic of the Notre Dame — and the Church — of the 1960's as the present award is indicative of Notre Dame — and the Church — of the 1880's. The award's gen­eral description could read simply: "The Laetare Medal is given an­nually to a Christian who has made a significant contribution to humanity." 
What do you think? 
RICHARD CONKLIN MA '59 is assistant direc­tor of public information at Notre Dame. He will author a regular column of campus comment in future issues of the ALUMNUS. 



How Special Isthe Notre Dame Man? 
By KENNETH WOODWARD '57 
TH E FIRST DAY I walked onto ' the Notre Dame campus, I was handed a booklet describing how special the ND man is. The day I graduated, a commencement speak­er told us how proud we should be to have earned an ND diploma. I don't suppose any intelligent per­son takes such rhetoric seriously — at least not right away. But as the years go on and nostalgia sets in, 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19<8 APRIL 
many Alumni do in fact begin to beUeve they are rather speciaL 
Just how special are they? 
I ask this question just four days after the President's Commission on Civil Disorders released its mas­sive report on last summer's radal riots. The fundamental cause of those riots, the Commission con­cluded, is white racism. Unless white racism is eradicated, the Commission predicted, the US will have two separate but unequal societies. 
Again, how special are Notre Dame Alumni? 
It is now just 18 days since a group of 50 Alumni from the New York metropolitan area publicly challenged the directors of the New-York Athletic Club (NYAC) on its membership policies with re­spect to Negroes and Jews. (See details, page 18.) Our assiunption was that even though a private club may enjoy a legal right to ex­clude whomever it wishes, it has no moral right to do so on the basis of race or religion. We were particularly appalled that a club which is known to have a large Catholic constituency — priests as well as laymen — should also pride itself on its white-Christians-only reputation. 
We asked the national Notre Dame Almnni Association's board of directors at its February meet­ing for a clear statement of prin­ciple, with particular reference to segregated, social and athletic clubs. We did not ask them to pre-judge the NYAC or even to mention the club by name. But we did ask them to instance the con­cern of our committee. 
After six hours of debate, they unanimously passed a resolution supporting "the University in op­ftosing all forms of segregation as a matter of principle." 
On the face of it, the statement is firm and complete. Under the circumstances, however, it was pur­posefully evasive. Like all gener­alities, it was so broad that it was meaningless. 
Is it too much for Notre Dame Alumni, as Christians, to state they cannot morally justify membership in athletic and other purely social dubs that bar men amply on the basis of race cur religion? 
I wonder Jf such an afiBrmation would have been much too specific for the Notre Dame conscience to bear. Or I wonder if the directors from, say, Chicago, Detroit and Cleveland recognized that a courageous stand cm segregated clubs would automatically apply to the Illinois, Detroit and Cleveland Athletic Clubs as welL 
Next we asked the directors of the Notre Dame Club of New York to support our efforts. After protracted debate, they merely en­dorsed the natioial board's bland statement. In short, the record now shows the Notre Dame na­tional and New York Alumni or­ganizations are against segregation, so long as one doesn't get too specific about it. 
In our white racist society, there are far greater problems than segre­gated clubs fcv paunchy weekend athletes. But I doubt that a man who refuses to shower with a Negro is prepared to integrate his ndgh­borhood, his business or his union. And I ask, are most Notre Dame Alumni prepared to support the social revolution called fcMr by the President's Commission on Civil Disorder? 
Is the Notre Dame man some­thing special? Fm beginning to wonder if he is that special breed of Christian who cannot accept the fundamental law of the Gospels, the papal statements on racism or the US Cathdic hierarchy's recent condemnatioiis of racial segrega­tlcm. If this suspicion seems too harsh, let the national Alumni As­sociation call on its local a£51iates to bar those Alumni who insist on enjoying s^regated athletic, golf and social clubs. That would be segregation based on Gospel's stan­



dards. 
No one expects Notre Dame Alumni to be perfect But it would be nice to thii^ the University has Alumni It can be proud of. It would be nice to think Notre Dame men are special. It would be nice to know they are Christians. 
KEN WOODWARD '57. the orgoniztr of Notre Oonw Afimni Against Rociol Discrirn­ination in Athletics, is religion editor of Newsweek. 
^ 

«« 
v 
* ^ I®" 
sS^ 


\ii,f^ -I® ®»*F 
.® [^ 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA Room for Borat and others. 


GIRL WATCHING 
The University 

I 
T'S spelled c-1-u-s-t-e-r, not m-e-r-g­e-r. And its definition includes more than the girls across the road. 
Already in progress are n^otiadons which could bring Barat College to Notre Dame by 1970. And a $200,000 national foundation grant has been requested to study a reciprocal ar­rangement between ND, Barat and St. Mary's College. 
A third Catholic women's college which hoped to relocate at Notre Dame was "turned down because it just didn't seem to fit into the pic­ture," according to Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president and University trustee. Dr. Shuster han­dled the first contacts with St. Mary's which resulted in the present class co-exchange program between the neigh­boring schools. He is now on the trus­tees' committee studying further co­operation between ND and SMC. 
Although other schools have been mentioned — including some non-Catholic schools — the only nego­tiations now underway involve SMC and Barat, according to Dr. Shuster. 
Already "in the picture" because they are in operation nearby, how­ever, are Holy Cross junior College and the South Bend-Mishawaka cam­pus of Indiana U. It is likely these two would be invited to participate in a "cluster college" program cen­tering around ND. 
Though no guidelines have been drawn, a cluster program similar to California's Claremont colleges is be­ing considered. Each college would maintain its separate identity, its own faculty and dormitories, its own cur­riculum and extra-curricular activities and grant its own diplomas. They would all share other facilities — libraries, for instance — and students from one school would be eligible for classes in the others. 
The greatest advantage for Notre Dame would be an improved social life — SMC has 1300 girls and Barat 600 — but there would be academic gains, too. SMC, for instance, has an undergraduate education department which ND hasn't 
Notre Dame imdergraduates, at their recent General Assembly of Stu­dents, resolved that the administration of the University should work with interested women's colleges toward 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19<8 APRIL 
their academic and geographic as­
sociation "without compromising the 
present or future development of 
academic excellence." 
Their "rationale" stated the stu­
dents "believe that their development 
into full manhood, spiritual, intel­
lectual, social and moral, is being 
hampered by a marked scarcity of the 
feminine influence. They added 
"they have been denied the oppor­
tunity for normal and frequent as­
sociation with the opposite sex both 
intellectually and socially" and "such 
association is necessary for maturity 
and development" and "lack of such 
association is a detriment to the com­
munity of scholars and students on 
campus." 
Barat's relocation is contingent up­
on selling their present property in 
Lake Forest, 111. A prospective buyer 
has been found but no sale has been 
made yet. Two spots are being con­
sidered for their rebuilding on the 
Notre Dame campus. 
"One is between the Fatima Re­treat House and the university resi­dences," Dr. Shuster said, "and the other is up Juniper road past the workshops and old Lobund labora­tory — that one would be more iso­lated from St. Mary's which I think they both would like a little better," he added. The land would be leased to Barat for construction of its own buildings. 
A financial study of the proposed tri-college arrangement is being un­dertaken and, meanwhile, Heald, Hobson and Associates, an educa­tional consultant firm of NYC, is do­ing a study of facilities and needs at SMC. (Heald, Hobson did an earlier study of Barat.) Rev. John McGrath, St. Mary's interim president, hopes the study will be completed by June. Likewise Barat hopes to have its cam­pus sold and a final decision on its relocation by June. 
The doubts and fears of the S t Mary's faculty have been the main ""stumbling block" preventing further 
•cooperation between the schools. Ac­cording to Dr. Shuster, the SMC staff has feared: 
"That St. Mary's might lose its identity as a small liberal arts college for women; that the concept of re­
:search would dominate, thus modify­ing traditional concepts of the teacher .as teacher; that advanced courses would be taught more and more at Notre Dame, while the beginning classes would be all that the faculty of St. Mary's could offer; and that the present orientation of Notre Dame in religion and theology would over­
bers was hostile when Sr. Mary Grace CSC, former SMC president, was re­lieved of her duties in December. She charged she had been dismissed be­cause the "merger" of ND and SMC was moving too slowly. 

President Guessing 
Months of preparation; weeks of or­ganization; long hours of debate on issues and platforms; buttons and signs; flag-waving demonstrations; confetti and horns; addresses by a congressman, a governor and a for­mer president; and after seven sessions and a record 10 ballots the ND Mock Republican Convention elected peace candidate Mark Hatfield as its can­didate for the presidency. 
In a protest against the war, the convention selected Hatfield, Senator from Oregon and longtime critic of the Vietnam conflict, over NY Gov. Nelson Rockefeller by more than 200 votes. The vice-presidential nominee was Massachusetts Gk)v. John Volpe. 
Keynote speaker for the convention was Ohio Rep, Robert Taft who, in the second session of the March 20­23 gathering in Stepan Center, called for new leadership in America to solve the ills of the city, of fiscal policy and the war. The following day Gov. Volpe echoed his sentiments and Dwight Eisenhower addressed the group in a seven-minute film in­terview. "Ike" praised modem youth for becoming involved in politics. 
The final vote on the nomination came Saturday afternoon as the con­vention moved to suspend the rule requiring a majority of all the dele­gates to elect a candidate in favor of one requiring a majority of only those present and voting, roughly 1000 out of the 1300 total. 
The convention was deadlocked after seven sessions. No candidate could muster the 667 votes needed and neither of the major forces could agree on a ctHnprmnise. "If nobody makes it on the first four ballob, then we'll be here till June — and well stay here till June," said Ed Kick-ham, Hatfield campa ^ manager. 

According to Jay CDonneQ, Rocke­feller supporter and chairman of the New York delegation, "We decided to vote for the rule change knowing we were giving the convention to Hat­field. But we had started to lose some of our pet^le to the fringe candi­dates and felt we had made a moral stand. Rather than let the Hatfield people wear us down, we just let the convention take its course." The final total was 328 votes for Hatfield and 308 for Rockefeller, with Nixcm and Regan getting most of the balance. 
The Hatfield campaign was based on a peace-in-Vietnam platform, as student keynoter Jeff Keyes called for a moment of silence for peace in­stead of the usual noisy demcxistra­tion when he placed Hatfield's name before the assembly. 
In a telephone address to the con­vention following his selecticm, the Oregon Senator said, "What the Mock Convention has done is to rec­ognize we have a great cause in 1968 .. . to find peace in the world and to work to build humanity rather than destroy hiunanity." 
While in the past a mock conven­tirai has attempted to foretell the choice of the national convention (choosing correcdy sevoi out of nine times) the students this year tried to influence the nadonal balloting. "We asked them not to mirrtHT the naticmal delegates, but rather to imagine them­selves in the position of the del^ate to the real convention and then choose whom they wish," said Tom Chema, general chairman of ND's assembly. 
Chema sees the convention as hav­ing been used as an anti-war vehicle. "Peace was the only issue in Hatfield's campaign, though I persmially feel there shmdd be more included in a candidate's stand/' he said. . 
whelm more conservative St. Mary's." ATTHECONVmnON The attitude of many faculty mem-It's Hatfield for Domers. 
.ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 

To a Compassionate Catholic 

R. Sargent Shriver, recently appointed US ambassador to France and former head of the nation's antipoverty and Peace Corps programs, is the 1968 recipient of the Notre Dame Laetare Medal. 
In announcing the director of the federal Office of Economic Oppor­tunity (OEO) as the 86th person to receive the gold medal, Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh CSC, Notre Dame president, said: 
"Like the celebrated Carroll family 
in the earliest days of his native Mary­
land, Sargent Shriver brings to pub­
lic service a rare combination of 
compassion bom of his Christian faith 
and courage stemming from his Amer­
ican heritage. With uncommon vision 
and enet^, he has personified the 
concern of Americans generally for 
those less fortunate than themselves, 
whether disadvantaged fellow-citizens 
of the United States or peoples of far-
off and underdeveloped nations. For 
his distinguished public service as well 
as for his edifying private life, the 
University of Notre Dame is proud to 
award Sargent Shriver the highest 
honor within its power to bestow." 

The Laetare Medal, regarded as the most significant annual award conferred on Catholic lawmen in the US, went last year to J. Peter Grace, New York industrialist and humani­tarian. Other recent recipients have included the late President John F. Kennedy, poet Phyllis McGinley, psy­chiatrist Francis Braceland, Admiral George W. Anderson Jr, scientist Frederick D. Rossini and Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Crowley, founders of the Christian Family Movement. 
Shriver's distinguished career in the federal service began \vith his ap­pointment in March, 1961 to head the Peace Corps, a new volunteer pro­gram which was to carry American youth s to poverty - stricken lands around the globe. 
Less than three months later, fresh from visits to Asia and Africa to test the reaction to the Peace Corps, Shriver spoke at ND's commencement exercises and received an honorary LLD degree. His words conveyed the excitement an d idealism whic h marked the birth of the Peace Corps. 
"There is a world-wde struggle going on — a revolution," Shriver said. "All men are trying to achieve human dignity and a common iden­tity. You and I are part of that strug­gle, for no matter whether a man be Jew, Buddhist, Moslem, Hindu, Com­munist or Christian, he needs food, shelter and spiritual comfort like every other man alive." 

Under Shriver's management, the Peace Corps became one of the show­case projects of Kennedy's "New Frontier," and when President John­son's "Great Society" needed a man to administer an all-out "War on Pov­erty" under the new Office of Eco­nomic Opportunity, Shriver was the logical choice. He headed both the Peace Corps and the OEO from Oc­tober, 1964 to February, 1966 when he resigned from the former. 
Four months after taking over the OEO as a special assistant to Presi­dent Johnson, Shriver was again at the ND podium," this time to accept the Patriotism Award given annually by the senior class. In an applause-studded speech, he called for a new 
R. SARGENT SHRIVER For his vision and action. 
kind of patriotism "defined by service, tried by failure and desperation and tempered by disillusionment and even frustration." His citation described him as "the very type of American idealist, joining high vision and de­cisive action." 
Most recendy Shriver was keynote speaker at the first ND general assem­bly of students Feb. 7. During this talk he urged students to make them­selves available to the poor when they begin their careers — as lawyers, for example, they could offer free legal services to the poverty-stricken. 
The 52-year-oId government oflB­cial holds BA and LLB degrees from Yale U. He practiced law wth a New York firm for a year before being com­missioned a Navy ensign in 1941. He served until 1945, retiring as a lieu­tenant commander in the submarine service. 
Soon after his discharge he was an assistant editor of Newsweek for two years until he left to join Joseph 
P. Kennedy Enterprises. In 1948 he was appointed assistant general man­ager of Chicago's Merchandise Mart and he held this position until he en­tered government service under his brother-in-law. President Kennedy, in 1961. 
While in Chicago, Shriver served as 
president of the board of education 
and president of the Catholic Inter­
racial Council of Chicago between 
1955-60. 
Shriver has received some two 
dozen honorary degrees from educa­
tional institutions in the US and 
abroad. He hjis served on ND's Ad­
visory Council for the College of Busi­
ness Administration since 1953. 
He and his wife, the former Eunice Mary Kennedy, were married in 1953 and have five children. They maintain residences in Chicago and Rockville, Md. 
The Laetare Medal is so named because the recipient is traditionally announced each year on Laetare Sun­day, the Fourth Sunday of Lent and an occasion of joy in the liturgy of the Church. The actual presentation is scheduled for a later date, often in the Lome town of the recipient. 


From Big Mud Holes Grow... 
The Campus skyline is changing and Alumni returning for the June Re­union or to see the Irish play this fall will hardly miss it Building projects which now have a lot of muddy ground around them will be com­pleted and construction will be started on some new ones. 
The biggest project is the Athletic and Convocation Center. Good weather, good contractors and com­puterized scheduling are credited with putting the work two months ahead of schedule and keeping it there. -Al­ready the building manager, John 
F. Plouff '38, has moved into his office. 
With completion of the building planned for Sept. 1, the workmen now are pouring the sub-floor of the south arena, with the installation of the in­laid wooden basketball court expected by July 1. All other concrete work has been finished. The main concourse needs only a final coat of paint and all administrative offices will be oc­cupied by June 1. 
The only outside work to be done on the building is the final roofing. The two-ply white polymer will be applied soon to complete the twin domes. Around the third week of April the landscaping will be started and the parking areas, each to hold 1000 cars, will be paved by this sum-
AlUMNUS MARCH 1963 APRIL 
men One will be immediately south of the Center and the other south of the stadium. 
Dorms Rising. Groundbreaking will take place in April for the two twin tower dormitories which will each house 500. Each residence will reach 11 stories with the first floor given over to lounge facilities and a small meditation chapel. The chapel will take the place of the larger hall chapels in the older dorms. 
It is felt the smaller size will better serve the residents of the halls. These main floor facilities will be shared by students in both towers. The upper ten floors will contain students' rooms. Old grads will miss sinks in the rooms. The new dorms are figured with all sinks, showers and toilets located in a center block, with the rooms around them. 
These new dormitories will sub­stantiate ND's claim of being a resi­dential university since they will pro­vide living space for all undergrad­uates who now live off Campus. The administration is hoping the new dor­mitories will be ready for occupancy by September, 1969. 
Club Nearing Completion. Meanwhile, across from the Morris Inn, there stands the soon-to-be-finkhed Uni­versity Club. Donated by Robert Gore Sr., past governor of Puerto Rico, it will be a private facility for the use of dues-paying members of the faculty, staff and administration. The clubhouse provides lounges and a rathskeller with fireplace for mem­bers and their guests. Dedication of the building is expected shortly after May 15. 
The sciences are seeing the com­pletion of some much-needed facilities and the beginning of some more. The new Lobund Laboratory, the first part of the science complex, has re­cently been occupied and plans are drawn for the Life Sciences building, to be attached to Lobund. Bids will go out around May 1. Groundbreak­ing will come approximately six weeks later. 

The chemistry building is 50 years old and will soon be replaced by a new chemistry research building. Just north of the A&C Center. It will hold a research library, labs, faculty and departmental offices and class­rooms. The planning is in the early stages but it is hoped bids can be taken by fall. 
An addition to Nieuwland Science Hall has recently been completed. The new wing houses a nuclear ac­celerator which is run by graduate students and is used in physics re­search. More Space. The College of Business Administration is moving swiftly to­wards completion. The exterior of the new office-classroom structure has been finished and now only the win­dows await installation. The building, located between La Fortune Student Center and the present college, will provide more than 40,000 square feet of new floor space. 
The basement will house confer­ence rooms, faculty and student lounges and two experimental class­rooms. The first and second floors will hold faculty and departmental offices and six "case" rooms. The first floor rooms are scheduled for com­pletion by April 17 and the second by May 17. The new structure should see students and teachers by this fall. 
In addition to these almost finished or about to be begun, many other projects are being considered by the administration. Among them are an addition to the North Dining Hall which will serve the students in the new dorms, a Radiation Center, a new engineering building which has high priority and a new classroom building which is badly needed. 
The landmarks of the Golden Dome 

and Sacred Heart spire anchor Notre Dame tradition but anyone returning to Campus after being away some time will certainly notice that the new towers mark the thrust of the future. 


The Pass Patten 
Even though the students may be all for it, there's a lot of red tape to be cut before a change is made in any University policy on academics. Take three current student issues, foe ex­ample: pass-fml courses, class "cuts" and revising the school-year calendar. 
Through their channels — Student Government and the recent Student Assembly — Notre Dame undergrad­uates have called for the establishment of pass-fail courses in which pass or iail marks would replace conventional ABCDF grades. 
They've also asked that sophomores, juniors and seniors be given no re­strictions concerning the number of absences from classes and labs and that the present limits be Uberalized and apply only to freshmen and uji­perclassmen on academic probation. Regarding the school calendar, they favor encfing the first semester before the Christmas break. 
But who is to say what is to be changed? At Notre Dame it's the Academic Council which consists of the University president, vice-presi­dents, deans and other administrators plus 13 elected faculty members. No students have ever presented a pro­posal to this group. The academic council hears proposals from faculty members—representatives from the various college councils or, more recently, from the new Faculty Senate. 
The usual procedure is for a pro­posal to go from an individual faculty member (or a group of professors) to the council of his college, then to the Faculty Senate, then to the Academic Council. 
The Academic Cotmcil has never discussed pass-fail courses, liberalizing class "cuts" or revising the school calendar. At press time the Faculty Senate is in the process of discussing cuts and the academic calendar and has a committee investigating the pos­sibility of pass-fail courses. 
However, the Arts and Letters 
EVOLUTION OF AN EDIFICE 

Just light up the scoreboards and bring on the hot dogs. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
in Boston of a heart attack. O'Con­PEOPLE nor will be remembered for hb novels 
Chicago's Mayor Richard Daley, for­mer President of Brazil Dr. Juscelino Kubitschek and Rolf Schwedler, head of city planning in West Berlin, were among the speakers at ND's confer­ence on the crisis of the city March 31-Aprii 3. Also on the program were members of the Real Great Societ)', a ghetto self-help organization started by former street gang leaders in NYC. The conference was an-anged by the department of architecture. 
The 35 charter members of ND's new chapter of Phi Beta Kappa elected two of their colleagues to member­ship in time for the installation Feb. 
11. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, and Rev. Philip 
S. Moore CSC, professor emeritus of mediaeval studies, were tlie two named to the national honor society for scholars. Dr. Bernard J. Kohibrenner, professor of education, is the president of the chapter and other charter members are faculty who were named to the country's oldest college frater­nity when they were undergraduates at other universities. 
* -s * 

Ron Karenga, Black Nationalist and leader of the militant US Negro group, debated ND history' Prof. James Silver Feb. 14 on the subject of Black Power. Accusing Silver of "paternal­ism" for his defense of the liberal establishment, Karenga said the ideals of Negro self-determination, self-re­spect and self-defense which his or­ganization worked for could be achieved not "in books, but only in the streets." 
Mark Lane claimed the Kennedy assassination was a conspiracy, citing testimony of witnesses who heard shots from various directions at die time the president was killed. In his Wash­ington Hall address Feb. 12, Lane speculated JFK was killed because he refused to follow the CIA policy in Vietnam. According to Lane, Lee Harvey Oswald was an FBI agent who was framed for the murder. 
The world premiere of Norman Mail­er's second movie, "Beyond the Law," was a highlight of the sophomore class literary festival March 31-April 6. Mailer was on Campus to introduce his film and others who participated in lectures and visits to classes were Granville Hicks of Saturday Review, columnist William F. Buckley, satirist Peter DeVries and novelists Joseph Heller, Kurt Vonnegut, Ralph Blison and Wright Morris. 
More than 50 of the nation's Catholic bishops have accepted invitations to ND's Episcopal Seminar in theology July 8-12. The seminar is being co­sponsored by the University and the Bishops' Committee on Doctrine headed by Most Rev. Alexander Zaie­ski, bishop of Lansing, Mich. 
* * * Rev. Charles L Sheedy CSC, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has been named one of 15 members of the American Heart Association's com­mittee to study the ethical, moral and legal implications of heart transplants. Other members of the conraiittee, drawn from the fields of medicine, law, religion, education and commu­nications, include Norman Cousins, editor of the Saturday Review; Dr. John P. Merrill of Harvard Medical School; and Dr. Luther Terry, for­mer surgeon general of the US and now with the U. of Pennsylvania. * * * Edwin O'Connor '39 died March 23 
dealing with the Irish in America. His best kno\vn book. The Last Hurrah, a story of Irish politicians in Boston, was made into a movie. In 1962 he won the Pulitzer Prize in fiction for The Edge of Sadness, a novel dealing with the problems of a priest in a poor parish. O'Connor was devoted to Notre Dame and especially to his former teacher Frank O'Malley whom he admired greatiy. Among the survivors is his widow Veniette, 10 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 
« « * Jacqueline Grennan, former nun and president of recently secularized Web­ster College, called for a revolution 
MISS GRENNAN Anti-residency. 

in Catholic education, and an end to the denominational university. In her March 4 talk she said religion becomes much more meaningful when it is not imposed. She crit­icized universities where authority is centralized in the hands of the ad­ministration instead of in individual students. Students, she said, should have representatives on each govern­ing board of the universit)'. While praising the strides ND has made under Rev. T. M. Hesburgh CSC, she criticized his decision to build a $2-million-dollar chapel on Campus and his determination to maintain ND as a residence University. 
• * 4e­

John W. Gardner, retiring Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, criti­cized the fact that so few graduates of American universities are going into public life. When he was given the senior class Patriot of the Year award March 16, he was introduced as "an enlightened patriot, one who works to light the wrongs of his country." 
KOHLBRENNER, PBK SENATOR L. M. GOULD, HESBURGH, MOORE Gardner said he retired from his Scholarly scroll. cabinet post because he felt the ad-
JOHN GARDNER Seniors' patriot. 

ministration was not spending enough money to cure the ills of the cities. 
* -if * 

Paul 6. Fay, former Undersecretary of the Navy, spoke about his friend John F. Kennedy to a library audi­torium audience March 11. He said Kennedy's greatness was not a matter of legislation but in his ability to provide leadership for the nation. Fay, author of The Pleasure of His Com­pany, a book of reminiscences about Kennedy, also said Kennedy had no plans to dump either Lyndon Johnson or Dean Rusk. 
* * * 

Harlan Cleveland, US Ambassador to 
NATO, spoke March 13 of the grow­
ing strength of NATO despite French 
withdrawal. In his Cardinal O'Hara 
Lecture titled "How to Make Peace 
with tile Russians" he said the USSR 
liad moved to new forms of creating 
tension because the power of NATO 
is so obviously on a military scale. 
Peace is preserved by NATO's pres­
ence and by constant efforts to reduce 
the level of confrontation in Europe, 
he feels. 
* * * More Alumni read the class secretary columns first than any other ALUMNUS department, according to a readership sur\'ey just completed by a sample of subscribers around the country. Among other comments they gave editor John P. Thurin '59 solid backing to his policy of reporting con­troversial issues. Just wanted to slip this one in, too: the ALUBINUS was given the Time-Life award for being the most improved alumni magazine in the midwest district of the Amer­ican Alumni Council—so the staff is still workin' on it. 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
Council has before it a proposal for a pass-fail grading system for the inter­disciplinary Collegiate Seminar classes. John Oesterle, associate professor of philosophy, is chairman of a investi­gating committee. He hopes a de­cision will be forthcoming this spring and is setting up a meeting \vith repre­sentatives of the college of engineering and the registrar's office to discuss the problems that might be involved. Oesterle says if approval is given it would be for a year's trial in the Collegiate Seminar only, and pass-fail is not being considered for any other programs. 
The Students' General Assembly passed a motion calling for a complete system of pass-fail courses to be estab­lished by ne.\t fall. They requested that any student be eligible for one pass-fail course each semester. Their minutes pointed out that students "are hampered by the arbitrary institution of the grading system" and that "out of fear of receiving a lower grade in a field in which they do not excel, will refrain from a course in that field, although a course in such a field would enrich their own knowledge and thus enrich the community scholars and students on this Campus." 
A Winter of Discontent 
Conflict has been the key word for the second semester of this academic year as the students gathered together for a presentation of grievances, elect­ed new student body officers and moved toward a deeper involvement in the life of the University com­munity. 
Feb. 7 and 8 saw ND's first Gen­eral Assembly of the student body, which brought upwards of 1500 stu­dents into Stepan Center to hear and vote on proposals centered around the Ufe of the student. The key bill, passed by an overwhelming voice vote, called for self-government in areas of predominantly student concern — hall lif^, including stay hall and parietal hours. 
Also on the first day of the assem­bly, approximately 200 demonstrators gathered in the administration build­ing to protest the presence of job re­cruiters from Dow Chemical Co., makers of napalm used in Vietnam. The students from Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Indiana U. in South Bend, along with faculty members, priests and nuns ignored an order from Dean of Students Rev. James Riehle to move outside onto the steps. 
Carrying signs condemning US in­volvement in Vietnam and calling for withdrawal of American forces, the protestors spent two hours in speeches and songs, then moved to the library auditorium for further addresses and debate. Dow recruiters met no actual interference as Notre Dame became the last major Midwest university to protest against Dow representatives. 
Later that month, key figures in the General Assembly foimd them­selves in opposition for the student body presidency. Richard Rossi, stay senator and author of the self-govern­ment bill, declared himself a candi­date for the office with Student Union Academic Commissioner Chuck Nau as his running mate. Lined up against them were Walsh Senator Pat Dowd and his miming mate John Gallagher. As the campaign got underway, two more candidates for the top post were added: Chuck Perrin and David Graham. 
Rossie, Dowd, and Perrin, all ran on "student power" platforms, with Rossie the most vehement. Perrin con­centrated on a "return the govern­ment to the people" concept, while traditionalist Graham said he would abolish most of student government if elected. 
When the shouting was done, Ros­sie, backed by an impressive organiza­tion, walked away with the election. The 21-year-old junior from Missis­sippi carried every hall but one, while Perrin finished second, Dowd third and Gallagher last. 
Rossie pledged himself to work for the reforms urged by the General As-
CAMPAIGN BUnON Pronounced now. 

sembly, and for broad-based reform and experimentation in curriculum. 
While the Assembly and campaign went on, the new Student-Faculty-Administration Committee deliberated on virtually the same issues. The com­mittee was formed in late January as a response to student charges that there was no path of communication between the tliree major areas of the University community. The 15-man discussion group is primarily for the exchange of ideas, according to its chairman, Vice-President for Stu­dent Affairs Rev. Charles McCaira­gher CSC. 
"We don't expect to get anything done," says Father McCarragherj "but we want to end what some people called tlie communication gap." The committee has, however, made some general recommendations to the ad­ministration and asked for a \vritten rationale on parietal hours. 
Meanwhile a subcommittee con­sidered the state of the student dining halls, suspect since a staphylococcus infection hit an estimated 1000 stu­dents before first semester finals.. 
The beginning of the second semes­ter also saw the ND student magazine, the Scholastic, produce what many called its best cover ever, but which other obser\'ers branded sacrilegious. The cover photo depicted various stu­dent leaders and a faculty member arranged in a parody of Da Vinci's "The Last Supper." In die face of criticism, mostly from sources outside the Universit)', editor Mike Mclner­ney replied the photo was making fun of the student leaders, rather than the event of the Last Supper. 
According to Mclnemey, many of the adverse comments from outside the campus were stimulated by a con­demnatory article in Twin Circle, a conservative Catholic newspaper. He added that, although he was surprised by the criticism and "lack of a sense of humor in many old-line Catliolics," he would have no compunctions about doing the cover again. 
Mclnemey's troubles were not over, however, as his unenthusiastic 

.endorsement of SBP candidate Pat Dowd caused several junior editors to resign from the staff and pass out a signed statement disagreeing with his choice and supporting Rich Rossie. The division lasted a week before both sides formed a reconciliation for "the good of the magazine." 
ElTorts continued meanwhile to im­plement the proposals of the General Assembly. SBP Chris Murphy sent an 11-page letter to Father Hesburgh and the vice-president of the Univer­sity calling for an immediate meeting of student and administration repre­sentatives to negotiate on the issues brought up by the assembly. In a pub­lished reply Father Hesburgh deplored the "ultimatum" feeling of Murphy's letter. He asked representatives of the Board of Trustees to meet in April for one or two days and said the pro­posals might be aired there. 
According to Father Hesburgh, the Assembly proposals on self-govern­ment, parietal hours and judicial codes contain "some philosophical questions that go to the heart of this Universi­ty's organization, character and gov­ernance," and should be handled by the major policy group, the Board of Trustees. 




To Be Catholic or Christian? 
tlUlHAT HAS HAPPENED to religion 'W on Campus?" Alumni ask that question in a resentful sort of way. 
VVith equal verve students reply: "It's dead!" And they add, "It's not so much the Catholic religion any­more as it is Christianity." 
The ansiver stuns Notre Dame par­ents and grads. And the gulf of un­derstanding widens still further be­cause tlie point in question is that aspect of a Notre Dame education which has meant most to Alumni. But religion also has great meaning in the lives of today's students. The understanding, interpretation and practice of what Alumni and students consider "religion" are at opposite ends of the pew. 
'"The difference is simple," notes Rev. Louis Putz CSC, rector of Moreau Seminary, who has been a hall rector and professor of theology at Notre Dame since 1939. 
"Noti'e Dame in years past reflected the attitudes and practices of the pre­conciliar Church. Now we're living in the post-conciliar era and emphasis has switched from a 'no-no' attitude to a'go-go' mandate." 
Rituals Gone. In those old days, Notre Dame was a model Catholic uni­versity. Glowing reports from die Campus told of the thousands of stu­dents attending daily Mass. Religiosity was measured by die endless lines of men waiting to hit the confessional. .\nd visitors were always impressed by host charts that were faithfully tallied each day in each hall chapel. 
May devotions at the Grotto were something to behold. The entire stu­dent body poured into the shrine eveiy evening to say the rosary. Un­derlying this spiritual fer\'or was a unique brand of discipline which, in the eyes of Notre Dame followers, produced a unique kind of man. 
People had admiration for an edu­cational system that demanded morn­ing Mass checks, bed checks, no girls on Campus after dark, no cars and "lights out" by midnight. 
In diese terms, Notre Dame has in­deed changed. Religion's sacrosanct ritual has been dispelled and will not likely return. What was good for the boys in the old days apparently is not quite so good for today's boys. 
Or some might ask more incisively: What is your standard for living the life of a Catholic?" 
Search for Meaning. "The days of absolutes have gone," Father Putz ob­serves. "Students now reject the stads­
tical measure of one's religion and, 
instead, search for a more meaning­
ful qualitative life." 
This new sense of religion on the Cam­pus is reflected by the student's anti­pathy toward the war in Vietnam; by his compassion for the impoverished; by his disdain for the institutionalized Catholic church and its purely legal­istic outlook, and for the double stan­dard observed by most Catholics to­day. Instead, students are looking for a personal Christ-centered way of life, an existence that attempts to live the story of the gospels. 
"Eliminate some of the hypocrisy and phoniness that exist in the Church today," said a Farley Hall resident in answer to a religion sur­vey. He added, "There are many, many people who go to Church every Sunday, sit in the first pew and put on a really big show. Yet as soon as they leave Mass, the show is over and they couldn't care less about their fellow man. I think that is why many young people have left tlie Church — because tiiey have found little sin­cerity and true Christian love." 
Such attitudes, however, aren't usually expressed by first-year men at Notre Dame. A freshman usually comes to the University steeped in the tra­ditional Catholic background fos­tered by his family and his earlier formal education. But after a year or tivo in the academic community he comes across new ideas about re­ligion. 
"At this stage," believes Rev. John Dunne CSC, professor of theology at Notre Dame, "the young man goes through a transition, a developmental process. He is passing from the faith of childhood, which is not really his own faith but that of his parents and teacliers, to a faith that is his own." 
Students Question. This Father Dunne terms a personal search, a quest for meaning in life, the rediscovery of that religion in an entirely new con­cept. 
"So there is a kind of apparent agnosticism that you find in colleges, which is not real agnosticism at all," Father Dunne maint^ns. "I think our students, and especially the bright ones, are not agnostic; they are highly concerned religiously. What they are going through is a discovery process." 
The search that Father Dunne de­scribes is not purely academic. More than merely debating notions of for­mal religion, this generation of stu­dents develops religious understand­ing by relating their classroom talk to the realities of the world. 
Their evaluation incorporates past experiences in the family, the parish, elementary and secondary education. Moreover they scan the major con­flicts confronting nations of people today. 
Active Apostles. In many instances students feel a personal call for social action. In their own way they want to be wtness to Christ. The manifes­tations range from a simple anti-war demonstration on campus to devoting an entire summer working in Spanish Harlem. Others travel to Latin America on behalf of the Committee for the International Lay Apostolate (CILA) working with the poor in Chile, Bolivia and other countries. And still others travel on weekends to Chicago where they work in neigh­
borhood slums. 
"In short, you can described their feeling as one of care," believes Rev. Joseph Simons CSC, former dean of students who now works out of die Counseling Center. 
"Their care is not only for otiiers but for themselves," Father Simons says. "I find that today's student is a troubled one. He's in conflict with his parents. His inherited religion turns him off and, what's more, he's confronted with the draft. In con­clusion, he says to himself, 'Now when I need help, what does Cath­olicism do for me?'" 
The University can help most by encouraging him to continue his search for himself. Father Simons be­lieves. "And I don't think we're do­ing too bad a job on that score be­cause the kids keep coming to Notre Dame and they stay," 
But not all students are that in­tensely affected by religion. Some manage to ignore it completely and for some others it has little if any meaning. There is quite likely no average Notre Dame student; instead there are categories in which most stu­dents find themselves. These include: 
•
 the group of intensely religious students who, rather than calling themselves Catholic, look upon their mission as being simply Christian. Though a minority group on Campus, their number is growing significantly by attracting others through the more progressive liturgical services and by enlisting students in their apostolic projects. 

•
 the group of traditional Catholic 


ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
students who merely fulfill Sunday obligation. Their religious faith has been formed more out of ritualistic habit than by personal ascertainment 
•
 the indifferent students for whom personal convenience guides religious activities. They don't try to think out their lives as Christians. They just exist 

•
 the rebels who detest the hypoc­risy and ambivalence they feel is widespread in Catholic society. These students react negatively to anything related to the institutional Church. 

•
 and, finally, a group which finds no personal meaning whatsoever in the life of the Church. 


In bygone days, Notre Dame en­forced a number of safeguards that, on the surface at least, insured the Catholic character of the University. These included the mandatory Mass checks, a required number of theology and philosophy courses, the availabil­ity of chaplains and easy access to a chapel from any place on tlie Cam­pus. Today — e.Kcept for Mass checks 
— these same conditions exist al­though their effectiveness is often questioned. 
Students, in particular, are critical of required theology and philosophy courses. They would opt for relaxa­tion of the 12 mandatory hours. They would substitute a greater variety of theology electives having relevance to the moral issues of the day. 
Reflecting on his four years at Notre Dame, one senior suggested "not hav­ing required courses but good courses. I find guys just aren't interested in knowing stories about miracles. They'd rather know more about Christ the Man and how they can relate to Him in their daily lives." 
Rev. James Burtchaell CSC, a Cambridge scholar and assistant pro­fessor of theology, favors the retention of a required number of courses on the same basis as "this place requires so many English courses." 
"The real hang-up in teaching the­ology," Father Burtchaell adds, "is that we have to imdo all the religious education students have received in high school. They aren't ready to explore theology. As far as they are concerned, theology is a hard and fast set of teachings from which tliere can be no departure. Theology courses, instead of just preachings, should be subjects in which students learn what yesterday's and today's Christians have thought." 
The priests on Campus also have been the subject of much comment. Students, for the most part, look upon them as disciplinarians. 
"As such," felt one junior, "students are not inclined to 'open up' to the hall rectors and floor prefects about 
^^\ 

CILA WORKERS. FATHERS BivRRELL and DUNh The apostolate combined with pastoral directioi 
any moral problems they have. They see the priests more concerned about having girls or booze in rooms than personal problems." 
Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, University chaplain, sees the immediate need for full-time hall chaplains who have been triuned in psychological counseling. 
"Pastoral care," he notes, "is in greater need on this Campus than ever before. What's more, the students not only need it, they are asking for it." "Turning On." Just recentiy Father Fey completed a visitation tour of students in their residence hall rooms. He observed, "the secret to turning on the students is in your willingness to talk and to mix with them. They've got to know you . . . and to feel you do care." 
He especially noted, "the bearded ones, let me tell you, are really the great ones to talk to." 
Has Notre Dame become imper­sonalized? 
Father Fey believes it hasn't But he adds, "the niunber of students has increased as has the number of faculty and staff. The Campus has grown by leaps and bounds except, unfortu­nately,for the number of priests." A Christian Community. Both the stu­dents and the administration feel that one way to retain the religious char­acter of Notre Dame is to develop a truly Christian community. Their hopes rest in large part on the "stay hall" program which would permit students to remain in one hall through all four years at the University. They feel students would get to know their fellow residents better and there would be greater continuity in social and reli­gious life. 
Just as im|X)rt£mt to these students is the liturgy of the Church. They "relate" to the new more progressive Masses. They feel these give a greater feeling of friendship and intimacy frith Christ and their fellow man. 
The proposed $2 million chapel, to be constructed among the high-rise dormitories on the east side of Campus, has come under considerable fire from students. In their mind, God no longer comes alive in beautiful huge edifices but, rather, in today's people. 
The "best" Masses on Campus just aren't found in Sacred Heart Church. "It's far too impersonal tliere," believes one undergraduate. The action is found in hall chapels such as Dillon at 11 pm each night; in Morrissey and Breen-Phillips halls; at Moreau Seminary chapel on Sun­days; and late Saturday night at Holy Cross Hall. 
Will Notre Dame remain Catholic? Will there be a significant difference between the Notre Dame of tomorrow and the secular state universities? 
Speculation is mixed. But most members of the University's com­munity feel a dominant Christian character will prevail if particular care is given these areas of Campus life: 
•
 the creation and development of meaningful liturgy throughout the Campus. 

•
 the creation of a truly Christian community with particular respect to residential hall life. 


m
•
 less emphasis on mandatory re­ligion and philosophy courses and greater efforts to improve the caliber of theology teachers and electives. 

•
 the dedication by the University and members of the community to the real moral problems of the here and new. 

•
 the training and placement of more qualified priests in a Campus-wide pastoral program. 


Regardless if one calls it Catiiolicism or Christianity, "religion" on the Notre Dame campus is on the rise. Gtod is very much alive. He's no longer found in the May processionals nor at the late-Sunday morning Masses at Sacred Heart Church. Rather he is found in the emer^g Christian community of the haUs; the ghetto schools of South Bend; and the slum ridden neighborhoods of Chicago. 
Old-time religion is gone. But Christ is not 
very ably reveal the subde aspects of the interacdon between science, tech­nology and the various facets of BOOKS society too often simply categorized as 
iaUiematicai Sleuthing 
HISTORY OF VEaOR ANALYSIS by Michael J. • owe. University of Notre Dome Press, 270 pp., .2.95. 
In the first half of the 19th century, 
-WO controversial enlai^ements were 
-reposed for the domain of mathe­
matics — enlargements that would 
significantly alter the notion of math­
ematics itself as well as provide power­
ful new analytic tools for the physical 
sciences. 
These were the non-Euclidean ge­
ometries and the vectorial systems of 
Hamilton and Grassman. 
The various vectorial systems pro­posed between 1840 and 1900 can be thought of as much more sophisticated versions of Descartes' earlier attempt to algebraize geometry. The new vec­tor quantities had "direction" as well as conventional quality, so that new laws of combination had. to be found for them. 
The trouble was that many such sets of laws could be devised, each giving symbols wth somewhat different prop­erties. Michael Crowe's book gives a lucid account of the two major early systems, the rather cumbrous quater­nions of Hamilton and less-known vectors of Grassmann, and traces their fortunes through the heated debates of some 60 years. 
He shows that the line of descent to modem vectorial analysis (in which a great many of the ordinary laws of algebra are "suspended") comes from Hamilton through Maxwell to Gibbs and Heaviside, each of whom modi­fied the original system quite consid­erably so that the end product, the "modem" notion of a vector (com­plete by 1910), was quite unlike the quartemion that had been its (rather unlikely) ancestor. 
Crowe's book is the first history of the fascinating and important period hi the joint history of mathematics .md physics. It is unpretentious in ap­proach; the reader may easily miss the ••normous amount of research in vir­
ually inaccessible and long-forgotten 
oumals and textbooks that lie behind 
-very page of it 
The author makes very effective use 
-f quasi-sociological techniques. For 
•.xample, he traces the influence of a ork through citations of it in later orks and gives statistical tables 
'.splaying the influence of the various ctorial systems in the published The book is an impiortant addition 
to the historiography of mathematics. 
The varied talents its vmting de­
manded are rarely found together in 
one man; we can confidently look for­
ward to the further works their con­
fluence in this young author vnH as­
suredly produce. 
—Rev. Ernan McMullm 


The Two Go Together 
SCIENCE AND CONTEMPORARY SOCIETY edited by FREDERICK J. CROSSON PhD '56, UND Press, 251 pp., $7.95. 
The year 1965 marked the Centen­nial of Science at Notre Dame and it proved more than appropriate at that time to gather together notable think­ers to address themselves to the crucial issue of science and our society. This book records the admirable results of the conference. 
The contributors—Elizabeth Sewell, Richard McKeon, En\dn Hiebert, Michael Crowe, Herbert Feigl, John 
E. Smith, Ludwig F. Audrieth, Far­rington Daniels and Philip Morrison— treat various key aspects of science and society (e.g., science and Utera­ture, science and religion, etc.) as their resjjective tastes and competence demands. 
Each of these contributions jusdy deserves extensive review by surely an equal number of qualified review­ers. So saying, I am now free to merely report my impressions of the general terrain of ideas created in this volume so well edited by Professor Crosson and very appropriately for­warded by a distinguished scientist-humanist. Prof. Milton Burton, direc­tor of ND's Radiation Laboratory. 
It is no pedestrian landscape; in­deed, the contributors to this volume 

humanistic in nature. One closes this 
book wondering how anyone of any 
previous age could have fallen victim 
to polarized notions of—on the one 
hand—society and—on the other— 
science. 
As we are victims of the follies of 

earlier years, this symposium could 
hardly be expected to reverse in­
grained notions passed on to us. The 
contributprs do, however, identify 
problem areas, forcefully question 
earlier myths and, in so doing, solve 
half the problem by stating it with 
persuasive eloquence. 
—Or. J. J. CAKBERK/ '50, MS 'SI 


Justifjfiiig Celibacy 
A TRILOGY O N WISDOM AND CELIBACY by Josephine Mossingberd Ford. Volume FisttT of The Cardinal O'Hora Series; University of Notre Dome Press, 256 pp., $7.95. 
Scholars generally acknowledge that by the third century Christians wide­ly accepted the practice of ceUbacy and virginity. The di£BcuIty is in find­ing any justification or encouragement for this unusual way of life in either the Old or the New Testament. For want of any such backing, the early tradition has often been traced to pagan practices of asceticism and vari­ous unsavory and heterodox ideas about marriage and sexual intercourse that were being circulated by the Gnostics and other heretical groups in the first centuries. 
Celibacy and virginity it has been argued, are the practical outcome of a pessimism about sex which found its way into Christian beUef and has never been sufficiently challenged. 
Dr. J. M. Ford, an expert on Jew­ish literature contemporary with the New Testament and a member of the ND department of theology, has pro­duced this very painstaking and schol­arly study of Old Testament, New 
orks of successive decades. Each chap- CROSSON, CROWE and FATHER McMULUN  
.r concludes with a useful summary.  On analyzing sciences.  
JMNUS MARCH 1948 APRIL  15  

Testament and Alexandrine Chris­tian writings (hence the Trilogy) to disprove these imputations. 
She finds no reference to celibacy either in the Jewish scripture or in the rabbinical writings that follow them; indeed, marriage was deemed a moral obligation. However, there is among the more scholarly rabbis a tra­dition that their study of the Law of Moses could be an all-absorbing en­deavor that might cause a man either to postpone marriage a few years or even abstain temporarily from sexual relations with his wife. 
The New Testament picks up this theme and adds an eschatological one: men who are awaiting the imminent arrival of Jesus to establish a new world order may practice continence system and the reproductive behavior of the family—past, present and fu­ture. In harmonious continuity with previous ND conferences, it excelled particularly for the originality and wealth of scientific data and informa­tion related directly by experts who have engaged in extensive research in the area of family concerns, popula­tion growth, human behavior and biology. 
The theme of the book develops along the following lines: The family is recognized as the decision-making unit of society with resptect to control of the family size. Among important factors, sex, this basic dimension of human existence;, plays a primary role in human activities. But in order for it to be a truly meaningful way of 

DOCTORS IIU and FORD On fertility and celibacy. 
in anticipation of the future life. Not even the New Testament speaks in favor of ceUbacy or viriginity, says Dr. Ford, but it gave continuance to a detectable trend — one that would continue for two centuries — toward acceptance by some few Christians of an immarried life for the sake of devo­tion to true wisdom. This the rabbis had pursued within the Torah and the followers of Jesus studied in their more an-ple scriptures. Thus celibacy and virginity derive not from taboos concerning sex or contempt for wom­anhood but from a growing feeling that the search for wisdom could be an all-absorbing occupation. 
—Rev. James Tunstead Burtchaell CSC '56 
The Effects of Sex 
FAMILY AND FERTILITY, edited by William T. Liu MA '52, UND Press, 257 pp., $9.95. 
A most felicitous gathering of dis­tinguished scientists, demographers, sociologists and theologians at Notre Dame produced this outstanding work on the relationship behveen the family being and relating to others, it must be regulated by means of normative codes of sexual morality. At present, indeed pressing, is the need for a re­appraisal of human sexuality that will take into account the complementary character of its psycho-physical, psycho-social and spiritual qualities. 
The subject of sex is viewed also in cross-cultural jierspective (the Danish, the Midwestern, American and the American Mormon cultures) while very vital questions are raised which are designed to help theologians formulate a theory of normative morality. 
Family interaction and the decision­making process about having or not having a child are shown to be af­fected by a number of variables of either personal or societal nature. The relationship between family size and intellectual development as well as between family size and sex-role identity are examined in detail with a suggestion that the size of the family may be a built-in regulator in the process of the child's socialization, es­
pecially in terms of sex-role identity. 
The seldom-analyzed question of 
the rapport between the number of 
childr^ and the patterns of usage of 
medical resources is the object of a 
very interesting and documented illus­
tration. There appears to be a gen­
eral trend toward decreased medical 
contacts for children as family size 
increases. Statistical evidence sug­
gests also that the family size is related 
to the number of morbid episodes 
among Protestant families but not so 
among Catholic families, known to be 
less inclined to perceive large families 
as distressful. 
A close examination follows the pat­terns of change, in the past decade, in the methods of fertility control in the United States, with special refer­ence to the "actual" conceptive be­havior of Catholic women. "The pill" has now become by and large the most fK>pular contraceptive method, trailing only rhythm among Catholic couples who generally experience an inclination toward nonconformity with the traditional position of the Cath­olic Church. The overall result is a decline of fertility rates in the last few years. 
Finally, what about the family planning of toworrow? A glimpse into the fumre is provided by means of an illustration of soon-to-come contra­ceptive devices, their various applica­tions and their possible impact upon sexual mores and attitudes of future generations. 

The complexity of the field of hu­man sexuality and reproduction de­mands a continuous and earnest dialogue among experts since conclu­sions from empirical studies cannot be automatically applied without con­adering their effects on the wide sjjectrum of interpersonal relations, human values, religious beliefs and cultural traditions. By focusing its at­tention on the vital and sensitive aspects of the problem. Family and Fertility has established the ideal basis and provided enlightening directives for new areas and progrzmis of studies. 
—Or. Piero t . Frollin 

Phenomena in Perspective 
BEFORE ROCKNE AT NOTRE DAME by D. Chet Grant '22, Dujarie Press, Notre Dame, 169 pp., $4.50. 
Some authors write because they are craftsmen. Some write because they want to tell a story. Some have experienced something memorable and want to record it. Some have a respect for history. Some are fasci­nated by the interrelationshipw which exist in people, in events or in institu­tions. 
Put all that together, and you have 
CHET GRANT From the roots. 

a rare combination that adds far more 
interest and stature to Chet Grant's 
new book than its treatment of pre-
Rockne Notre Dame and its football 
history might indicate. 
The book will be interesting and en­lightening to those who joined the ND football following by hitching their wagons to the magnificent Rockne star. Certainly publicity and profits—two of the most commonly heralded by-products of ND football —coincided with national sports pat­terns in the post-World War I public and with the individual genius that was Knute Rockne's in adapting to these expanding factors. 
But to a large segment of Alumni, and a large segment of sports his­torians—which most sports fans are— Chet Grant has made a major con­tribution in thij personal witness to the strength and integrity of the foot­ball tradition at Notre Dame and from the deeper roots and richer re­sources of the spirit from which it was fashioned. 
This is one of the few recogmtions that ND football was a mature 25 years old, with major victories and in­creasingly stronger schedules, with intersectional impact, before the in­vestment in sound athletics began to return profits. It was the national identity, the color of style and the will to win that found Notre Dame first in the public eye when it discovered the glamor of the stadia. 
For all who are interested in the proper perspective of one of the great phenomena of football, and the greater phenomenon of Notre Dame, this book, by a native son of South Bend associated with sports and the University for more than half a cen­tury, one of Rockne's own quarter­backs in a championship era, and a sports writer of recognized compet­ence, will be as pleasant as it is in­formative and constructive. 
—James E, Armstrong '25 


One Priest, One Woman 
All FOR HER, autobiography of Rev. Pohick Peyton CSC '37, Doubledoy & Company Inc. Gorden City, NY, 286 pp., $4.95. 
AH For Her is another book about a priest He is "a spoiled priest," a priest of "Peyton Place" in Ireland. Moreover, he is a priest of one "woman" who knows love and aflfeo tion because this woman is perpen­dicular with us: a maternal vii^in, a woman who is horizontal with GJod because she gave birth to Christ who is God, a woman whom Pope Paul called the mother of the Church. 
This book has the warmth of an Irish peasant boy who came to the new world of America to discover for himself a new life. But he brought with him a real life of love and devo­tion to the mother of God. 
As we read the book, we find he was cast down. He came to the ptoint of death from a physical ill­ness. While at Notre Dame, Father Pat learned the Lady of a Grotto had f)ower to cure. As he says himself, he used the water from Our Lady's Grot­to in Lourdes, France, and recovered. He learned the power of that Lady as did Tom Dooley years later. 
As Father Pat says, "Mother, I be­lieve that you are alive and that you are real and that you are a woman and that you have eyes, a face, a smile, a memory, an intelligence and a heart. You have a mother and fa­ther of your own. You have a son who is truly God, who loves you and will deny you nothing you ask." 
He was encouraged in his devotion by such men as Fathers Cornelius Hagerty CSC and Patrick Dolan CSC. "These men are still living and can testify to the sincerity of his de­votion to the mother of God. They live in Holy Cross House, the interna­tional house for the infirm and retired priests of Holy Cross. 
There came a time in the life of Father Pat when he had to make a decision, a commitment. That com­mitment for life was the "Family Rosary." There are pictures and pho­tos in the book that tell of the success of this commitment. 
Father Pat shot for the stars and got them. These celebrities could not resist the humility, honesty and aware­ness of his devotion; his dependence and imitation and consecration to the mother of God, a humble "woman" Mary. There were stars like Crosby, Russell, Dunne, Durante. There were scholars like Ives Congar, Bernard Haring. 
The Rosary Crusade circled the earth: Europe, Africa, India and South America. There were cardinals 
such as Van Roey, Santcis, Lopez and Gushing. There were lay leaders of industry — Peter Grace and Ignatius CShaughnessy. There were 600,000 people in Venezuela and 1,500,000 in Brazil. Victor Reisel, a member of the Jewish f^th, wrote: "This is gospel, not gossip, when the Communist party attempted to raise a mass march against the American Embassy .. . they could only raise 57 outraged demonstratcHs, but the other Sunday when a crusading priest, as Irish as a field of Shamrocks . . . called on working people here to come and pray with hmi in the streets of the old city (Panama) . . . men, women and youngsters came out in the broiling sun." 
The last part of the book asks this important question: What of the Ro­sary today? 1968? Over the years Father Pat Peyton has received the approval of Pope Pius XII, John XXIII and recendy Pope Paul VI. Pope Paul went to Fatima and re­iterated the need of prayer, especial­ly the Rosary. So we know that in a world that needs a "woman," Father Pat will bring her back to her place in the liturgy and the doctrinal and scriptural aspects recommended by Pope Paul. 
So the title of mother of the Church given by Pope Paul will be realized in the humble work of this "spoiled priest" of one woman from "Peyton Place" with a pat answer for the ills of 1968. Although the Rosary is not o£Bcially a part of the worship of the Church today, it is a fitting prepara­tion and conclusion and should be a daily part of every family. "The fam­ily that prays together stays together." 
nrnp schoerf a c 'si 
FATHER PEYTON Of the place. 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL IT: 
RETICENT ALUMNI, MILITANT PICKETS and a DETERMINED KEN WCXJDWARD '57 Conflict among alumni club, athletic club and alumni conscience. 
TIME FOR SOME SOUL SEARCHING 
TH E ISSUE was simple, about as 
• simple as black and white. It asked: Do you believe strongly enough in human equality to protest the dis­criminatory practices of private clubs? 
The reaction might have been just as quick and simple. "Yes" or "No." But in February when it came up and stared Notre Dame men in the face, only a few gave an unconditional nod. Others were diwded on whether to even enter the unpopular and un­profitable arena of civil rights. 
The showdown erupted over the alleged racist policies of the New York Athletic Club (NYAC). It boiled to a head at the club's annual track meet. 
This year the traditionally dia­mond-studded event was the club's 100th and the anniversary meet was celebrated in the new Madison Square Garden. But it didn't come off with the glitter that had been planned for two reasons: 
•
 Negro athletes and sympathizers boycotted the meet because the NYAC has never had any Negroes on its athletic teams, and 

•
 Certain Notre Dame men, resent­ing a "Catholic club" label long given the all-white NYAC, attempted to bring Alumni pressure on racial and religious discrimination by the private organization. 



The Rationale. The movement began when several athletes — in an exten­sion of their boycott of the Olympic games — decided to include the NYAC games in their protest They reasoned that Negro athletes should not compete for the benefit of a club which will not allow them to be mem­bers. 
Their stance was prompted by the fact that in the past 100 years of amateur competition no Negro has ever worn the NYAC colors on his black back. As a result, no Negro has ever been granted an "athletic mem­bership" which is given those who are competing for national honors in track and field, rowing, etc. Club of­ficials have never explained in detail their admission policies. Moreover, the club's practice of admitting mem­bers through personal interviews makes it possible for the NYAC to carry out policies which may not be spelled out in print 
The University's name got involved in the dispute when several Alumni in the New York area hoisted the ND banner as a more effective way to combat discrimination in a predomi­nantly "Catholic" club. 
Organized by Kenneth Woodward '57 and supported by co-chairmen William Pfaff '49 and John Chesire '66, the committee called itself Notre Dame Alumni Against Racial Discrim­ination in Athletics (NDAARDA). 
Among the 9000 NYAC members there are many Catholics including a large number of priests. And Notre Dame Alumni are particularly wel­come at the club. 
According to Woodward, who is religion editor of Newsweek, "Alumni have been told upon making applica­tion to the club, that their connec­tion with the University would cer­tainly be an important factor in favor of acceptance." 
The Move to Action. Two weeks be­fore the NYAC games in the Garden, the ND committee prepared a letter which called upon Notre Dame Alumni to demand a statement from the NYAC regardmg its membership policies. 
The committee's letter said, "We recognize the NYAC's legal right as a private club to exclude whom­ever it wishes. But we do not grant it a moral right to do so. To use the color of a man's skin as a basis of exclusion from an athletic club — or any purely social club — strikes us as a serious violation of fun­damental Christian ethics. . • . We believe the apparent policies and practices of the NYAC cannot be jus­tified by the principles for which Notre Dame stands." 
In addition the committee asked Alumni to boycott the games Feb. 16. Moreover, Notre Dame Alumni who belonged to the NYAC were encour­aged to seek immediate changes in the club's membership policies. If this failed. Alumni' were asked to re­sign from the NYAC until such prac­tices were changed. 
While NDAARDA was being formed. Woodward appealed to the National Alumni Board of Directors for a statement in support of the com­mittee's efforts. 
"We did not expect the national organization to take a specific stand against the NYAC," Woodward main­tained. "What we wanted, however, was a statement that would mention private clubs and to instance the con­cern of our committee in whatever statement they might make." 
The Alumni Board discussed the issue for six hours, part of which was spent with Father Hesburgh. His pro-integration stand in these mat­ters has long been recorded in the proceedings of the US Civil Rights Commission. But it took his imre-
ALUMNUS MARCH 1948 APRIL 

lenting views and his very presence to finally wear down hesitant Board members and to encourage the gov­erning Alumni body to make a state­ment. It was in fact the first time the Notre Dame Alumni Board had ever been confronted with such a challenge. It replied: 
The Board of Directors of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation supports the position of the University in opposing all forms of segregation as a matter of principle. 
The statement was turned over to 

NDAARDA which used it in its let­
ters and at a press conference before 
the games. 
"I can say that I was gratified that 

they made any statement at all," 
Woiodward reacted. "However, it is 
so general as to be meaningless." 
From National to Local Support. Time was now growing short for NDAAR­DA. Moreover, a mail foul-up curbed the committee's efforts to con­tact all 2000 Alumni in the New York area. Their alternative was to gain adherents by telephone. And so Woodward and committee turned to the NYC Notre Dame Club for sup­port. 
February 12, four days before the games, the committee proposed the ND Club would take over the func­tions of NDAARDA. 
"I not only had a practical pur­
(Continued on page 59) 

1928 Plus 40 
Maybe it's hard to picture the Class of '28 on the front cover of a national magazine . . . but there they were in the March 9 issue of America. There was no cheesecake, however; just an arty design and type saying "Profile of a College Class (40 years after) by Louis F. Buckley." 
Inside, the story reported the re­sults of Class Secretary Buckley's sur­vey of his fellow '28 graduates. The magazine article and other stories 
AMERICA and BUCKLEY Happy, hawkish and heralded. 

ALUMNUS AAARCH 1968 APRIL 
about the survey — in the National Catholic Reporter, Columbus Citizen-Journal, Chicago Sun-Times and else­where — have made the Class one of the best known (and most analyzed) in the University's history. Buckley re­ports newspaper clippings and good wishes are still coming in from around the country. 
The survey followed the pattern of an earlier one, also done by Buckley, in 1953. His latest questionnaire was sent last fall to 456 Class members and 47 percent of them responded. After tabulations, he found they were gener­ally favorable toward a changing Catholic Church, definitely hawkish on Vietnam and reasonably happy in their personal lives. 
Fifty-six percent of those replying thought changes in the Catholic Church were taking place at about the right pace, but only three specific jjol­icy changes were favored by half or more: 50 percent approved cremation and elimination of the imprimatur on books and 63 percent favored divorce under certain conditions. About a third of those responding thought the Church was changing too fast and one in ten wanted swifter renewal. 
The strongest disapproval of poten­tial policy changes came on discontin­uing Catholic colleges (86 percent) and ordination of women (83 per­cent) . 
Regarding birth control, 44 percent do not think the ovulation-regulating pill is intrinsically evil, compared with 24 percent who do and 30 percent who are uncertain. Three out of four respondents, however, believe abor­tion-inducing agents are immoral. Slightly more than half think birth-control devices should be made avail­able on request to those on public welfare. 
They gave solid support to new Church practices including liturgical changes, meat on Friday, greater au­tonomy for bishops ' and discontinu­ance of the index of forbidden books. 
Moral Values. On the basic issue of 
moral law versus Church law, more 
than half the respondents thought at­
tendance at Mass on Simday more 
important than love of neighbor. 
However, 92 percent indicated ap­
proval of Vatican H's condemnation 
of anti-Semitism and more than half 
of those respionding said Catholics 
have a moral obligation to lead move­
ments for equal job opportunities, 
school desegregation and open hous­
ing. 
Although the Class divided rather 
evenly on polidcal lines — 40 percent 
Republican and 47 percent Demo­
cratic— there was more unanimity 
on the Vietnam question. Although 
60 percent feel the US made a mis­
take in sending fighting troops to 
Southeast Asia, virtually the same 
percentage—63 percent—favor con­
tinuing our present course or esca­
lating the war. Twenty-three percent 
favor withdrawal. 
Despite far-reaching changes at 
their alma mater, 94 percent said they 
approved of the way ND has prog­
ressed since they left the Campus. 
Seventy-seven percent approved of 
the changeover from clerical to lay 
government at the University, com­
pared with an 84 percent endorse­
ment reported in a survey of all ND 
Alumni. Only 17 percent favored a 
co-ed Notre Dame, while 69 percent 
objected and 14 percent were imcer­
tain. Several indicated they would, 
however, like to see closer ties with 
St. Mary's Collie. 
Fifty-seven percent said faculty de­
velopment was the University's great­
est need. Twenty-seven percent con­
sider religious training ND's major 
contribution to their lives, while 15 
percent each voted for a good educa­
tion, the inculcation of indepiendent 
thinking, and friendship of class­
mates. 
The New Breed 
"Today's long-haired, tight-trousered young men, whcxn elders tend to regard as hopelessly undiscijdined, are turning out to be some of the most highly disciplined soldiers of current history. And the Army chaplains who minister to these young men are adding a new dimension to the term 'Soldiers of God,'" according to Chaplain (Maj. Gen.) Francis L. Sampson '36, Army Chief of Chap> lains. 
. Chaplain Sampson was interviewed following his recent 30-day tour of the Far East His. itinerary, which in­cluded Vietnam, Thailand, Okinawa, 
19 
Korea, Japan and Ha\%'aii, enabled 
him to visit commanding officers, 
chaplains and individual soldiers at 
each echelon — from major head­
quarters dovwi to small units in the 
field. 
Commenting on the young soldier 
in Vietnam, he added, "I will never 
in my life again prejudge our youth 
because, time after time when heavy 
demands are placed on their young 
shoulders, they've made the pessimists 
and cynics eat their own words. The 
United States soldier has never looked 
better, never been more disciplined, 
never met the challenge of duty, 
honor and country with greater faith 
in God and in his fellow man than 
these men in Vietnam. 
"I thought in World War II no unit 
could have higher morale than my 
parachute outfit but I've never seen 
morale like Vietnam. I can't quite 
explain it 
"These young men are better soldiers than their dads were. They accept responsibility better. They are better motivated, more committed. It is indicated in their acceptance of hardships, in their care for the people in a desperate situation and in the many voluntary extensions of duty in that wjur-beset country. 
"One reason the morale is so high is they know they must be there for only one year. Also, they know if they are hit they will get immediate aid, evacuation and treatment. 
"Hot meals are provided for them in the most amazing places. We ate delicious hot chicken and drank iced tea at an outpost right next to the Cambodian border." The Giver Receives. During his trip, the general talked with more than 300 Vietnam casualties receiving medical care at Army hospitals. His purpose for visiting these men was to comfort and encourage them, but he says he received inspiration and encourage­ment from the patients. Their morale was imbelievably high; not one of the wounded soldiers was bitter or dis­gruntled, he mentioned. 
The war in Vietnam is producing not only a new-type soldier, but also a new-type Army chaplain, according to the general. 

Through his travels. Chaplain Sampson found today's chaplain does not wait at the chapel for the men to come to him. Chaplains are going into the elephant grass, the swamps and jungle to hold services for as few as five men at a time. "Services are short, spontaneous and to the point Sometimes as many as 12 or 14 are held during a day—outdoors, in the chapel services," he said. 
Because the chaplain is taking the 

church to the servicemen rather than 
the servicemen coming to the church, 
the chaplain learns to know the men 
better. 
"There is a much more intimate 

relationship between chapladn and 
soldier because the US Army chap­
lains in Vietnam have made religion 
a man-to-man ministry," said the 
Army's top chaplain. 
When asked about the tactical sit­uation in Vietnam, the chief sjud that the chaplain is not a tactician. "That is not his mission," he stated firmly and added, "So long as this world puts men on crosses, the church must put crosses on men. So long as there is conflict, there must be courage. The church must be where the issues are faced. On the battiefield, the chaplain is the church. To go with these men to their battle stations and to their places of watchful waiting and vigilance is a great privilege and an almost overwhelming responsibility. The chaplain goes with them not as a hawk or a dove but under the aegis of the American Eagle and in the in­spiration of the Holy Paraclete. We, too, are soldiers—soldiers of America and soldiers of God." 
The Army has more than 350 chaplains in Vietnam. Chaplain Sampson talked with 331 of them during his visit there which extended from the Delta to the DMZ and from the Cambodian and Laotian borders to the South China Sea. Every one of these chaplains could be replaced with volunteers from stateside Army posts. 
Known as the "paratrooper padre," the general made several combat jumps with airborne units in World War II and one in Korea. He was captured by the Germans after jump­ing into Normandy on D-Day in 1944, where he volunteered to remain be­hind with American wounded as the enemy counterattacked. He was wounded by the Germans but escaped and returned to his unit. 
He jumped into Holland in Decem­ber 1944 and was again captured at Bastogne in 1945, spending the rest of the war in a German POW camp. Among his many decorations. Chap­lain Sampson wears the Distinguished Service Cross, second highest US award for bravery, awarded for his staying with wounded soldiers in Normandy. 
All In the Same Till 
In its 25th year, Notre Dame's An­nual Alumni Fund fell victim to a newcomer on the University's fund­raising scene. The culprit is SUMMA, the University's third back-to-back capital funds drive. 
While contributions exceeded $1.5 million, 1967 Alumni giving fell short of the record mark set a year earlier. Then, better than $2.1 million was given the University by 50.95 percent of the Alumni. Thus year 48 percent of the Alumni contributed to the fund. 
"The catch to the whole matter," explains Dennis Troester '57, director of the Annual Alumni Fund, "is that our report concerns itself only with cash received during calendar year 1967. SUMMA, now only seven months old, is in the stages of obtain­ing pledges." 
By these measures then, 1968 and 

battle areas. The men are not as at­
CHAPLAIN SAMPSON and TROOPS 
tracted to the institutionalized, rigid, 
Better soldiers than their dads. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19SS APRIL 

the years thereafter should be whop­pers for the Alumni Fund. Pledges from "Notre Dame's Greatest Chal­
1967 ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
lenge" will come due in the next five 
years. By March 1 the SUMMA 
drive had already collected more than 
$29 million in cash and pledges. 
Troester also showed where major 
cash gifts reflect heavily on the year-
end report. In 1966 the three largest 
Alumni cash contributions totaled 
$969,728. In the year just closed the 
three largest Alumni cash gifts came 
to $233,609. 
Despite Notre Dame's all-out em­
phasis on SUMMA, the Annual 
Alumni Fund reflected on its own 
some encouraging trends. It appears 
this fund can guarantee the Univer­
sity a minimum of $1.5 million every 
year from its graduates. Moreover, 
this year's figures (see the table of 
1967 Annual Alumni Fund) indi­
cated 40 classes contributed more in 
1967 than in 1966. In addition there 
were 379 gifts from Alumni who 
graduated before 1962 and who had 
not made a contribution to the Uni­
versity. 
"In the past two years," Troester 
points out, "as a result of the Class 
Agent mailings, we received 1,141 
gifts from Alumni who have not con­
tributed in five or more years. I 
think this speaks well of the Alumni 
acceptance of the Class Agent pro­
gram." 
Though the Alumni Fund is 25 years old. Class Agents were appoint­ed last year for the first time. Under the program each alumnus received letter appeals from a selected agent in his class. Last December's Class Agent letter alone drew a return of 
13.5 percent. Troester, who feels this is much higher than normal return rate, indicated this represented ap­proximately $110,000. 
Alumni giving in the last six years follows: 
Number of '^ of Atumnt Contributors Amount Contributing 

1962 12,538 $1,777,684.88 53.5% 1963 11.856 1,258,956.86 49.0% 1964 10,794 2,102,299.90 42.9% 1965 11,799 1,437,341.69 44.7% 1966 13,709 2,165,699.78 50.95% 1967 13,456 1,579,765.49 48.29% 
Toward Better Lands 
Tokyo, Bangkok, Hong Kong, and Honolulu are among the places that will be visited on an Orient trip headed up by John Ray, assistant football coach. The 15-day tour will leave Chicago May 18 with First Bank Travel handling the travel arrange­ments. Friends of John Ray interested in joining him on the tour may con­tact him through the ND athletic 
Class Agent 

1910 & before—Stephen H. Herr 1911—Colonel R. Otto Probst 1912—Richard J. Monroe 1913— 1914—W. Poyntelle Downing 1915—Albert A. Kuhle 1916—C. Patrick Maloney 1917—Frederick L. Mahaffey (dec) 1918—John A. Lemmer 1919—^Louis J. Finske 1920—John T. Balfe 1921—^Raymond J. Schubmehl 1922—Frank B. Bloemer, Jr. 1923—Joseph J. Casa Santa, Sr. 1924—Edward G. Cantwell 1925—Henry C. Wurzer 1926—Malcolm F. Knaus 1927—William J. Corfaett, Jr. 1928—^J. Patrick Canny 1929—Karl E. Martersteck 1930—John J. Elder 1931—John F. Saunders 1932—Prof. Francis J. O'Malley 1933—Lucien S. Kempf 1934—Patrick J. CarroU 1935—Paul A. Fergus 1936—^Francis L. Layden 1937—Robert M. Siegfried 1938—Leonard H. Skoglund, Jr. 1939—James N. Motschall 1940—Walter L. Fleming, Jr. 1941—William E. Cotter, Jr. 1942—William E. Scanlan 1943—Oliver H. Hunter 1944—John W. Anhut 1945—^Joseph M. Haggar, Jr. 1946—^H. B. Surkamp 1947—Joseph M. Byrne, HI 
1948—James L. Ferstel 1949—Peter J. Keman, Jr. 1950—Gus Cifelli 1951—^Martin R. O'Connor 1952—William V. Cuddy 1953—Joseph L. Pagliari 1954—^Thomas J. Nessinger 1955—George H. Shelton 1956—^John F. Fannon 1957—James A. Morse 1958—^Alfred J. Weinsheimer, J 1959—Frank R. Reynolds, Jr. 1960—D. Jerry McGIynn 1961—Patrick J. Hart, Jr. 1962—John C. Dearie 1963—Kevin G. Hart 196'!—David W. Ellis 1965—John J. Gearen 1966—Barry T. McNamara 1967—Patrick J. Nash 
Undergraduates Notre Dame Alumni Clubs Student Government Gifts in Kind 

Amount Con-Iribmlti 
% 9,616.00— 2,076.00+ 107,076.80+ 7,648.75— 1,241,25— 3,670.00— 84,540.82+  42,605.00+ 4,292.56+ 
1,050.00— 8,103.44+ 6,001.80+ 7,457.62— 7,595.55— 11,357.00— 13,299.58+ 30,947.15+ 13,014.47— 
108,577.38+ 19,472.07— 22,597.40— 
65,728.53+ ' 22,796.22+ 34,969.92+ 16,537.24— 25,937.06+ 11,237.50— 43,422.61 + 25,837.48+ 39,455.53+ 109,489.58+* 17,386.06— 21,186.28+ 26,407.49+ 49,268.57+ 13,057.01 + 
6,072.00— 
21,073.80— 30,508.17+ 37,652.89+ 34,733.20+ 25,297.90+ 32,286.44+ 39,474.01 + 22,021.50+ 20,952.59+ 60,332.02+ 16,527.13+ 21,068.89+ 22,140.84+ 13,409.09+ 11,706.51 + 10,717.64+ 9,038.76+ 11,918.01 + 10,197.28— 5,902.15+ 
9,042.33 
956.00 43,612.85 11,000.00 17,165.77 
Alumni Total $1,579,765.49 Honorary Alumni 448,079.68 
Combined Total $2,027,845.17 
• 1940 Largest Amount * 1949 Most Contributors 
* 1954 Largest % of Class Contributing 
+ Increase over 1966 
— Decrease from 1966 Same as 1966 

dept. ^ _. J 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
HmmitT of Com­ttikmloa 
27— 14 
8— 11— 14 Ifr— 20+ 
30— 25 13— 20+ 26— 65+ 69^ 65— 94— 82— 
121— 170— 152— 156— 163— 185— 193— 181— 188— 143— 127— 182— 191— 238— 211— 190— 231— 246— 141 + 112— 243— 
Z99~ 
554—* 439— 376— 422— 418— 440— 415— 451— 456— 507— 486— 494— 461— 528+ 462+ 482+ 519— 441 + 281 
4 23 1 34 
13,456 20 
13,476 
StimbtT Class of C(W-Jtmmn tntmimt 
94 28 30 34 45 37 41 54 50 41 57 64 
119 141 148 211 178 268 337 346 360 377 385 417 438 427 341 354 405 425 498 462 447 450 478 281 241 522 804 
1,050 881 677 830 751 763 770 815 896 953 939 938 900 982 
1,020 1,074 1,060 1,059 1,070 
27,863 
28.72 50.00 26.66 32.35 31.11 43.24 48.78 55.55 50.00 31.70 35.08 40.62 54.62 41.14 33.34 44.08 40.45 45.15 50.45 43.93 43.33 43.23 48.05 46.28 41.32 44.02 41.93 35.87 44.93 44.94 47.79 45.67 42.50 51.33 51.46 
50.17 46.47 46.55 49.62 52.76 49.82 55.53 50.84 55.65 57.66* 53.89 55.33 50.89 53.20 51.75 52.66 51.22 53.76 45.29 44.87 48.96 41.64 26.26 
48.29% 
arc the temporary seats vre place on the field. With a closed situation such as we now have, the question be­comes "Who gets stuck \vith them?" 

1968 FOOTBALL TICKETS 
Another problem (it will be more 

Bye, Bye Basement 
By ROBERT CAHILL '34, Ticket Manager 
T IS March 10, 1968. It is a gray 
I Sunday afternoon. As we write these 
lines to you for the last time from the 
Stj'gian gloom of the basement ticket 
office in Breen-Phillips Hall, we are 
at this moment gazing upward almost 
fondly at the maze of steam and water 
pipes which form an integral part of 
our decor. It doesn't seem possible 
that we shall soon be leaving these old 
surroundings for the fresh new carpet 
and paneling of the Athletic and Con­
vocation Center. 
Some Changes in 1968. With our Alumni Association gro\^dng at such a rate and wth our capacity unfor­tunately still the same we have done our best to provide additional tickets for contributing Alumni for 1968. To accomplish this you will note from the diagram that we have reduced the visiting team maximum to 5000 seats. We have also reduced the parent al­lotment to 3000 seats. We have added this 2500 additional allocation to the Alumni area. 
Finthermore, no new season ticket orders will be accepted and any at­trition that occurs in that category will be diverted to individual game sale for contributing Alumni. Steps have also been taken to enable our season ticket holders to recognize in a financial way the privileges they now enjoy. 
Tfiis may also be the opening move in a future revision of our season ticket situation, either prior to or con­current with an increase in stadium seating capacity. Plans have been sub­mitted for a stadium expansion but no target date has been announced. We asked you how to solve our prob­lem and the response was overwhelm­ingly in favor of increasing the size of the stadium. 
With the additional tickets available to contributors in 1968, we have dis­carded any idea of a lottery for any one home game. We think die Mich­igan State lottery last year was the fairest way of handling it and most of you agreed. 
Now Hear This. First, the home games. We are certain there will be no public sale for Oklahoma, Sept. 21, or for Purdue, Sept. 28. For that rea­
son we are also advising Alumni Clubs 
now that we cannot accept group res­
ervations for those games. Also, we 
doubt if there will be public sale for 
Northwestern or Illinois. However, if 
Alumni Clubs are interested in those 
latter two ball games or in Pittsburgh 
or Georgia Tech, we can make tenta­
tive reservations if we hear from such 
Clubs by June 20. No firm commit­
ment can be made on any game for a 
block of Alumni Club tickets until 
after the advance sale closes July I5i 
Second, the games away: We should be able to handle all Alimmi orders for Iowa at Iowa City. But applications to contributing Alumni only in the geographical area sur­rounding East Lansing \\dll be avail­able for our game there with Mich­igan State. Contributing Alumni jiop­ulation in those areas will determine exactly which states will be covered. There will be no block orders avail­able for the Michigan State game to anyone. 
For Navy at Philadelphia we should have plenty of seats available hot only for contributing Alumni but for Alum­ni Clubs and for public sale. How­ever, after missing my predictions so widely in 1967, I must remind you that none of these probabilities can be construed as a promise! Southern California continues to be one of the schools that allots us more tickets than most of the others and for that reason we can continue to accommodate all Alumni for the game at Los Angeles and probably Alumni Clubs in that area. 
Hidden Pr^lems. Until the last few years it has not been too difficult to allot blocks of tickets to our students for social alfsars. Now it is. This year the Student Union chose the Illinois game for Homecoming Weekend. We are asked to hold 1500 tickets for stu­dents and their dates. Another request from the Student Union for 1000 tickets for their aimual Open House Weekend wll probably be assessed against available tickets for the North­western game. 
Another puzzle which doesn't show on the diagram is the fact that of our total capacity of reserved seats, 1829 significant in 1969): Having advised all visiting teams of a 5000-ticket max­imum for 1968 will probably result in similar treatment for us when we play away in 1969. 
Non-Alumni Problems. Another look at the ever-useful diagram will indi­cate to you that aside from season tickets there is no possible way in which we can accommodate the pub­lic unless the Alimmi sale is less than 12,500 or unless the parents' sale is short of 3000 or unless the visiting team requirements are under 5000. 
We see no way to conduct public 
sale for any of our home games with 
the jiossible exception of Pittsburgh 
and Georgia Tech and then on a very 
limited basis. This situation has re­

MM 
sulted in our alienating about 400 or 500 groups of Holy Name societies, parish organizations, fraternal clubs, etc. which had previously been the greater portion of our public ticket sale in years gone by. We had to ad­vise about 400 such groups in 1967 we could not fulfill the tentative reserva­tions we had made for them. This is, you will agree, an undesirable but an inevitable situation if we are to take care of the ND family. 

i£­
Even further removed from the possibility of ordering tickets for an individual game or two is the ND fan who has followed us for lo these many years, but is able to attend only one or two games a year. This type of lo}ral fan we have also had to elimi­nate. These are points perhaps to re­member when and if the Alumnus himself is discommoded or chagrined either by the limits on quantity of his tickets or disapftointment over ticket locations received. 
The annual regulations still hold for the most part and we list them again for you. However, we do im­plore you this year to be sure to read everydiing printed on the application forms you will receive. Last year, either because of haste or indifference, many failed to note our requirement for a separate check to accompany the Michigan State order. This was neces­sary to physically implement the lot­tery and those who ignored the sepa­rate check request were disqualified We shall make every efTort to get th<' applications blanks out even earlier than we did last year. So please don't send your order in and ask us to seat you with Joe Classmate whose ordei will be coming in a day or so or which he has already mailed! The tremen­dous volume of our mail makes thi-« kind of service no longer possible. You 
m 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL | 

9'"-1 
must mail your application blanks to­
gether if you want to sit together. 
Advance Sale Procedure. 1. Contrib­

utors to the 25th Annual Alumni 
Fund in 1967, religious and honorary 
degree holders plus the June Class of 
1968 are eligible for Advance Sale 
order forms for the 1968 football sea­
son. A contribution recorded after 
Jan. 1, 1968, affords ticket priority for 
the 1969 season but NOT for 1968. 
2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20. Advance Sale forms are lim­ited to TWO tickets per game, are not transferable and wU be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is exhausted, whichever occurs first. Any order arriving after that date, regard­less of category, will receive General Use treatment. Moreover, an order filled before July 15 b not guaranteed a preferred location (see Point 4 below). 

3.
 The Alumni Advance Sale order form is designated as such in bold type on its face for ready identifica­tion. Eligible Alumni should receive these before June 20. If you have not ^— and you're certain of your eligibil­ity — notify the Ticket Manager at once. Our envelopes are addressed by the Alumni Association but filled and mailed by the Ticket Office. Omissions are usually caused by address changes. So, if your address differs from that used for this issue of the ALUMNUS, forward that change at once to the Alumni Office. 

4.
 Seats are allotted in accordance with date received, modified only as follows: Orders arriving BEFORE opening day (June 20) are uitegrated with those received June 20. At close of business June 20, all applications 


on hand at that point are thoroughly shufi9ed, drawn by lot and assigned a sequence number to establish the order of seat assignment for each game. As many as 6000 orders for each of the more popular games may arrive for processing June 20 (accounting for 12,000 tickets). Obviously even a first-day order could be on the 50-yard line or beyond the goal line, depending on the luck of the draw. This is the answer to the Alumnus' question as to why, although he ordered for all games on the very first day, he re­ceived fine seats for one game and poor ones for another, or fine or poor seats for all — or none for some games! 
After Monogram and Season Ticket orders (more about Season Tickets below) are satisfied, ONLY 4000 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE IN ND STADIUM BETWEEN THE GOAL AND 50-YARD LINE FOR ALUMNI. Hence, for the more pop­ular games it is readily seen how a first-day order could fare poorly. An Alumnus who files his order even two or three days after June 20 can expect nothing but seats behind the north goal, or no seats at all (see diagram). 
General Sale: 5. General Use ticket applications are mailed annually to ALL Alumni the latter part of July, prior to the Aug. 1 opening of public sale. It is entirely possible in 1968 that Advance Sale described above could claim our entire ticket supply, as it did in 1967. The alternatives wll definitely be established by July 
15. General Use forms are transfer­able and the contributing Alumnus who has already used his Advance Sale form for two tickets may place 
aae-3 
em-IO 
aire-14 

1968 TICKET AllOTMENT Only room for 56,979 faces in the crowd. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1948 APRIL 
additional orders via the general form. Moreover, the General Use form is a convenient reminder to the noncon-. tributing Alumnus that tickets are available. These General Use forms carry no locational preferences, as all such OTders are filled after Advance Sale purchases. 
6. Public sale of remaining tickets opens annually Aug. 1. The ticket committee will be glad to send public order forms to any addressee upon request as long as tickets are available. 
Alumni duos. 7. Alunmi Clubs hoping for a block of tickets for an excursion must file a request with the Ticket Manager BEFORE JUNE 20. As already indicated, Oklahoma and Purdue will not be open to such re­quests. Final action on block orders for other games cannot be taken imtil individual sales close July 15 and then only if sufficient tickets remain. How­ever, a tentative reservation will be made and an Alumni Club will be given preference in case of short suj)­ply. As to seat locaticms for groups, the following is positive: block orders are Hlled from seats remaining after all individual orders have been assigned. This permits only end zone seats, invariably. 
8. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising awards. With our present critical situation this could be accomplished only if a contributing Alumnus were to purchase the tickets in his name for whatever fund-raising gimmick the Club has in mind. The location of seats so purchased will be exactly in accordance with the date this order is received. We don't feel we can guarantee a choice loca­tion for a raffle at the expense of the individual Alumnus. 
The Season Ticket Situation. For the second year in a row our Season Ticket sale has been frozen at 1966 figures. Again, any Seascm Tickets not renewed will be used to help relieve the pressure from contributing Alumni on an individual game basis. They will not be offered again for sale as Season Tickets unless and imtil our stadium capacity is expanded. 
So we greet you once more at the beginning of our 28th year as Ticket Manager. Some of our problems may be alleviated in the near future by automation but if the football team continues its successful ways and our Alumni population continues to bur­geon, only a stadium enlargement will enable us to keep everybody reason­ably happy. In the meantime, try to put yourself in our place (believe me, there are months when I wish you would), and we shall continue our efforts to give everyone a fair shake. 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 117 SUNSET A\TE. LAGRANGE, ILL. 60525 
GROVER F. MILLER '16 
1208 SOUTH MAIN ST. 
RACINE, WIS. 53403 

Sl-Yeir 
EDWARD McOSKER '17 
525 MELROSE AVE. 
ELGIN, ILLINOIS 60120 
Oil 
DAN E. HILGARTNER '17 P.O. BOX 75 HARBERT, MICH. 49115 

HENRY DOCKWEILER '12, Los Angeles, was named Knight Commander of the Grand Order of St. Gregory by Pope Paul in June, 1967. The Pontifical Order of St. Gregory the Great was establbhed by Pope Gregory XVI in 1831 to honor persons distinguished for character, reputation and notable accomplishment. Henry's activities have exemplified the complementary relation between religion and morality and civic progress. Henry is a practicing lawyer in Los Angeles. He spent a num­ber of years as a young man in the US diplomatic service, with posts in the capitals of Japan, China Dominican Republic, Haiti and Spain. He \\-as a board member of the ND Alumni Assoc 
BERNARD VOLL '17 was married Aug. 19, 1967 to Mrs. Edwiard L. Rigley in the Log Chapel at ND. Mrs. Voll has participated in ciwc and community activities including the St. Joseph County Medical Society's Auxiliary. Since Oct. 1 the couple has resided at 1631 No. Klverdde Dr., South Bend. 
JOHN URBAN RILEY '17 is recuperating successfully from a recent operation, according to DANNY HILGARTNER. "The Duke" has been invited to become buaness mgr. of the Portland Players, a community theatre group well known throughout New England. Danny suggests sending **cheers" to John at Hidden Acres, Fogg Point, Frccport, Alaine 04032 
DANIEL R. FOLEY '11 has been in Fort Myeis, Fla. for the last eight years since his retirement. His wife writes tfiat he is incapacitated and not able to leave home but he enjoys reading the lit­erature from ND. They are enjoying their Florida home and their family consists of tu'o sons, a daughter and 14 grandchildren living in Detroit, where Dan practiced law. 
RAYMOND J. KELLY '15 retired as special counsel for the Excello Corp. in Detroit in 1964. Re has had a busy life including being general counsel for the Detroit Street Railways (1930-1933) and corporation counsel (city attorney] in 1933-1939 and 1948-1950. He served under five different 
mayors. He was one of the organizers of the 
Institute of Municipal Law Officers and served a 
term as pres. of that organization. He was state 
commander of the American Legion in 1930 and 
national commander in 1940. In World War H lie 
received the US Legion of Merit and the French 
Legion of Honor. He was appointed chatrman of 
the US Railroad Retirement Board by Prendent 
Eisenhower in 1953 and was US District Judge for 
the First Div. in Alaska for four years beginnius 
in 1956. He was judidal. officer of the Post 0£Bce 
Dept. in 1960. He and Mrs. Kelly will be cele­
brating their golden anniversary April 19. 
SAMUEL C. POWELL writes from Ogden. 

Utah that he is still engaged in the practice of law. 
He entered ND Law School in the fall of '21, had 
one year at ND. then attended the U. of Kk Law 
School and later graduated from Georgetown Law 
School. He remembers some of his classmate^ 
CECIL E. BIRDER, THOMAS B. CURRY SIL, 
WILLIAM J. CUSACK, Judge TIMOTHY E. 
DOWNEY and GUS DORAIS of footbaU £une. 
ROBERT L. ROACH '15 says he regrets not 

getting over to any of the games last fall although 
he had tickets for the So. Cal game. He was ^ad 
he didn't have to see us give that game away. 
"Saw it on TV the following day," he wrote. **Too 
many pass interceptions, fumbles and bum punts. 
Looks like another strong team next year." Bob 
says he has had some correspondence recently with 
JIM FRICK and our old friend GEORGE 
SHUSTER. 
In one of George's earlier letters he accused me of Ziaving^ appointed him class cheer leader when I was elected president of the 1915 Class. I got a laugh out of that. Bob also expressed his appreciation for the list of the members of the 50-Ycar Club. **Seeing some of the names brought pleasant memories." 
WILLIARD V. HALLAM '15 writes that he is recovering from surgery and the effects of two strokes. I am sure all are grieved to leam of the news of the death of JOSEPH F. KENNEY, LLB '15. Joe died Jan. 4. Joe and Mrs. Kenncy resided at 811 Cambridge, Berkley, Michigan. Eternal rest grant unto him. May he rest in peace. 
It appears that many of the members of the Class of 1915 feel what they are doing and the things that are important to them would not be of interest to their classmates. I am afraid they are too modest. As your secretary I want to make an earnest appeal to use the yellow card which is included in issues of The ALUMNUS to send along some information about yourself and mon­bers of your family. I'll be looking for the yellow cards or letters soon after this issue reaches you. 
—ALBERT KUHLE 

RcntCtnbCM' when you used to be a pupil at Noire Dame? Since then many contacts may have been lost. But now all your classmates are eyeing the dates for Reunion weekend. Eyebrows will be lifted if you don't make your plans now for the spectacle JfunC 7*8*9 
H 
1918 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 WRIGHTWOOD AVE. 
CHICAGO, ILL. <nG<7 

I918en, this is YOUR GOLDEN JUBILEE RE­UNION YEAR. Hope Tou ALL are planning to wturn to N D in June. Rev. CHARLES J. WIL­LIAMS, chainnan of your class committee, is looking forward to greeting you and the Mrs. Yon win be presented with a 50-year diploma. The Mrs. will be taken care of by the ladies' oonunittee and wiH receive a Golden Jubilee N D certificate. Father Williams* pbns, he trusts, will prove to be inspirational, interesting, enjoyable and remembered for the next 50 years. All that remains for your reunion to prove most successful is YOUR being there. 
Send a birthday greeting card — May 24 Rev. CEO. HOLDERITH CSC, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. June 13 EDWARD J. REYNOLDS, 497 BigUand Ave., Maiden, Mass. 03I4S. June 16, LAMBERT Q. SENG, 6508 N. Glcnwood Ave., Chicago 60626. June 29, ALBERT S. O'SULL­IVAN, 513 Warren Ave., Belvidere, 111. 61008. July 12, Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS, St. Malachy Rectory, Rantoul, lU. 61866. July 14. THOM. ^ 
L. MOORE, Box 2417, Tulsa, Okla. 74101. July 29, JAMES G. WALLACE, 1132 Bcllc\-ue Ave., Syracuse, N Y 13204 
1 hope you will hear from your Golden Jubilee Committee — Chairman Rev. Charles J. Williams, CHARLES W. CALL, JOHN A. LEMMER, JOSEPH T. RILEY, PETER J. RONCHETTI and Dr. NEIL J. "WHirEY" WHALEN. 1 hope in the next issue of ALUMNUS we will have a report from the committee and a list of the fel­lows who intend to return in June. 
For the first time there is a Ladies Auxiliary Committee composed of Mrs. Lcmmcr, Mis. Ron­chetti and I^ . Whalcn. Another first for 191S Class will be the auarding of a 50-year diploma. Then there is a campus jacket. The ladies will receive a certificate honoring 'em for putting up with you for so many years. All YOU have to do is remain healthy and return to campus, try and locate your hall where )-ou went with two cents to get a lemonade and cooky. Time will melt aAv*ay and the old bull sessions will be even longer and GREATER. End it all u-ith the Gaelic toast — "Lai laiae gus saol" which means "health and long lite to you." PEACE. 
Before you dose the pages, tear out the yellour card, fin it up with all the latest info and inail it via die fastest route! 
1919 1920 
THEODORE C. RADEMAKER PERU FOUNDRY CO. PERU. INO. 46900 
JAMES H. RYAN 2470 EAST AVE., APT. 314 ROCHESTER, N.V. 14610 

We were all sorrowful over the sudden death of WALTER MILLER'S wife Jan. 6. Everybody knou^ of the energy, cheerfulness and gaiety surrounding Walter. He just finished a new house which is in the neighborhood of the country estate of John O. Rockefeller. He had purchased a lot of paintings and oriental rugs and his house is full of ND pic­tures and other mementos. The funeral was at­tended by 24 priests, eight judges and 300 nuns which attested to his wide-spread acquaintance and admirers. His wife had one brother who \\*as a priest. Walter asked me to come out and stay with him for a day or two and I hope to enjoy his visit. Some of our Class may not know that his brother Ray, who ran the Democratic party in and about Cleve­land, died two years ago. Everybody knows the famous five Millers from Cleveland. 
Red Miller was All-American in 1919. He retired from the regular staff of DuPont Co. and is now the legal adviser to the DuPont family. Ray was told by his doctor he was in perfect health but he went out in July to mow the lawn of his 62-room house and died from a heart attack. Of course you know that Don was an All-Amcrican with the Four Horsemen and he is the bankruptcy judge of Cayuga county. Cteighton is also a prominent at­torney in Cleveland and was also a famous football player. 
Walter, after being with the Standard On of NJ and the BeU Telephone people has retired and, as be must be active, he is with the federal judges in the Cleveland district and is enjoying himself bringing lots of good cheer to the judges. He tells metbat DAN DUFFY of the Class of '21 is a very active lawyer in Clevelaod and is on the elecUon 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1?68 APRIL 

WHO ARE THESE FRESH-FACED LADS with Rev. Charles Doremus CSC '06? W$ Reunion time for some of them. Fr. Doremus will be here June 7, 8 and 9 to help identify these half-remembered faces. 
board. Walter, not too long ago, communicated with our notorious, cheerful DUKE GONZALES in the Fhilipptnes. 
Our good friend JOHN T. BALFE, I assume, is now in the Mediterranean somewhere between the Holy City and Greece or other exciting places in between. He dropped me a line to say that Rev. JIM CONNERTON is now back at ND at the Holy Cross House on Douglas road and would like to get some letters from hts Class. Jim, you may recall, headed two of ND*s inspired colleges in the East, one in Scranton and one up near Boston. He must have gained a great ability for teaching. But I think his greatest feat was in managing these universities and it doesn't require much imagina­tion to know that fund raising was probably his greatest feat. He had to be good to set up two 
universities. 
1921 1922 
DAN W. DUFFY 
1030 NATL. CITY E. 6th BLDG. CLEVELAND^ OHIO 44114 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 
173 LANDING RD. N. 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 146^ 
Our grateful appreciation and thanks are ex­
tended to all who sent Christmas greetings and 
New Year good wishes to your Class secretary. 
The last issue of the ALUMNUS carried the 
very sad news of the death of JACK MILES '47 
of South Bend, beloved son of our classmate 
FRANK "RANGY" MILES and \rife. Camilla. 
Jack was a topflight Class secretary and, despite 
the fact that he was stricken with polio and 
pracdcally lived in a wheelchair for the last 18 
years of his life, he accomplished much in a 
business way and had a host of friends. We do 
extend our loving sympathy to Jack's widow 
Betty, and other family members. 
May 3, 1967 Sister M. Leo James CSC died. 
She was the oldest sister of our beloved classmate 
GEORGE HENEGHAN (deceased). 
The GEORGE KERVERs of Cleveland saw 

every home football game at ND last fall. Also 
they attended the husband and wife retreats on 
the Campus in July and October and brought 
along a grandson to register. On one fall Cam|ni3 
visit they met the RALPH CORYNs. 
Rev. GEO. FISCHER CSC was on asdgn­

ment at St. Patrick's Cathedral, NYC, for tluree 
weeks in January. 
Last spring Dr. James B. Heneghan (son of our deceased classmate George) spoke in Nagoya, Japan at the International Seminar on Gnoto­faiotic Technology. The doctor is director of the Germ-Free Life I.aboratories at Louisiana State U. He was one of five medical researchers in the US selected to attend the international congress. 
Last Nov. 24 at Our Lady of Lourdcs Church in the Saint Louis area occurred the wedding of Miss Joanne Sexton, second daughter of Dr. and Mrs. DANIEL L. SEKTON of 14 Crestwood Dr., Cbyton, Mo. and Gilbert Stampfer Davidson Jr. Reception was at Old Warson Country Qub. We extend best wishes to all concerned. 
There is a Christinas note from Mrs. Aaron (Ruby) Huguenard: ''Another year and another year older. Family is fine. Aaron Jr. has eight 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
little ones and doing well in his IBM woriu Jane has a darling five-year-old girl. Anne is living in Washington, DC getting her dtictorate in lan­guages at Georgetown. I am just trying to catch up with the years." 
In January the HEARTLEY "HUNK" AN­DERSONS, the CHARLIE CROWLEYs and the DAN YOUNGs were having a grand time in the Lake Worth and West P^hn Beach, Fla. areas. While the men golfed, the wives caught vp on their shopping. 
Get busy and rip out the yellow card. Send U all the news we hunger for^-OK? 
1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 
lfi67 RIVERSIDE DR., AFT. A SOUTH BEND. IND. 4GSI6 

JUNE 8'9 
lAMES R. MEEHAN 
301 S. LAFAYETTE BLVD. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46G01 

1924 
JOHN P. HURLEY 
2065 BROOKDALE RO. 
TOLEDO. OHIO 43606 

1925 
Just m case you haven't caught your bxeath from our 42nd Reunion, hear this — HANK WURZER is urging promotioa ideas for oar 45th in 1970. 
No plans lor raising funds. Let's let the Um­versity's own committees pick up the f52 million for its greatest challenge. 1 know our C3ass will do more than its share. 
The biggest scoop: your secretary is the young­est grandfather. Michael Peter, son of MICHAEL PETER UNDERWOOD '58 and our daughter Pat, arrived Dec. 18, 1967. 
FRANK HOWLAND wrote for GEORGE CHOA's home address because Frank and his wife are "going that way." In case any other '25exs are swinging around the world, George lives at 27 Hamilton Rd., Fcnang, Malayaa. VIRG FAGAN verified this was the correct address. 
HERMAN CENTLIVRE wrote in part: "Oor 1925 Reunion certainly rang the bell! My daugh­ter Julie is a senior at St. Mary's. I have 15 grandchildren and am expecting to hear about an addition to the family of our son in Grosse Isle. I'm betting on another grandson." Hcim, thanks for your help at the Reunion. 
I get very little news from you fellows .. . just change of addresses and mostly moves from houses to apartments or to sunny lands like ROY PAULI and CARL SPRENGER to St. Peters­burg, Fla. area. The Class has a nzable colony spread over Florida. 
HANK WURZER ended his last letter: "I 
is Ae bit dm or bm MBt be a kaidy nr a niJinwtiiM of both." 
Use the ydbw aid ia Oit ane aad teD a aboot yoonelf aad gm yoar utisiii aay wa^get­tiom lor our VA. Did yoa Bke ife tab at the Cealcr far Contiainag KdacMi— Avfimriaa? 
|G9f i ^LSON ft UIWELL, INC. 
MEW YORK. N.Y. 10017 Bcfoce y m start leadiag, please tear out tbe ydbnr card oa page 30 aad QI ia lOMethmg about yoanelf or, if yon an basbfol, let me have loaie aews about amtbcr rtiifitr ytn ni^ t have aeen or heard froa. 
You no dobbt have teen ia a pccvioos isoe that EDMUND F. BURKE (NJ "EO") pasvd away Nov. 11. 1967. TOH FARRELL and I were pallbearers at the timeraL Besides his wife Mary, Ed left a married daughter whose three dul^en, Mike, Diane and BeA, were the pride of his heart. He made snre to stop in every mom-ins to qiend a few minutes with the yonngsters. His son Ranly is still at W. AHrginia for his pre­dental and has not decided whether he will stay there or return to NJ for bis graduate wock. 
The Almnni OlSce received word that RICH­ARD J. "DICK" COLLINS is now director of quality control for Sandy WO Corp., Hudson Falls, NY, and was recently elected chairman of the Empire State Section of TAPPI. How about getting some word from Dick and Pat? 
When in Miami for the ND-Miami game, I was able to get together with IZ PROBST by tele­fdione only. He and his family were not very good ads for the Miami Chamber of Commerce as they all were laid low with the flu. It was able to drag binself a few blocks to the hotel in Key Biscayne to nsit ART HALEY. I hope that all the Probsts have leuiviied and that Iz win be Me to give us some news for the next issue. 
1927 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 
111 W. DOWniER PL. AURORA. ILL. OEM 

As the Class of 192B is making preparations for its 40-year Reunion, its secretary LOU BUCKLEY has made a survey of the hollb, attitudes and status of the membeis. The result establishes that the Class a stable and successful; its mem­ben are important people. The suivey received inhstantial publicity, and deservedly so. The sew^npcre, however, failed to point out the most noteworthy fstinction ot the Class of '28— it follo«red by only one year the greatest Class of an, the Class of 1927. 
HERB JONES lecdved a Ingh honor in Janu­ary- He %iras chosen Bnnness A^nagcr of the Year by the College Athletic Bunness Managers Assoc Herb appears to have completely recov­ered from his illness wluch confined him to the bo^ital last spring. We aB hope he wiU remain as business mgr. of the athletic dept. for many more years and win try to keep the supply ojf footbaU tickets inexhaustible. 
JAMES G. WING has been promoted to execu­tive vice-pies, of Lakeshoie National Bank of Chicago. He started as a messenger 40 years ago and has run the gamut through. 
I received a newsy letter ftom NEIL REGAN in January. His address is PO Box 14, Alcove, NY. He reports on his three children. MICHAEL, who graduated faom ND in 1963, received a law degree from Albany Law School in 1967. He is now practiciog in Albany. A daughter JULIA is studying at Upstate MeiEcal Center in NY and intends to be a registered nurse. The plans of the other son, 12 years old, have not yet crys­tallized. Ndl missed the Reunion last year but hopes to join us in 1972. 
With deep regret I must report that WII.T.IAM 
A. DOTTERWEICH of Jackson, Mich, died in January. A Mass is being said for him at ND by Rev. JAMES E. MORAN CSC. a Class member. 
I ran into HERB BRAUN recently at Church (honest!). He lived in Aurora while he was a student and for mauy years afterward but moved to San Leandro, Calif, where he contisues to be Mn active ei^ineer. 
There's another yellow card on page 30 of this isnae to make it eaaer for your secretary to report the Class news. 1 hope yon aU make good use who ran the Democratic party in and about Qe*­of it. 
25 
m^^^ 

Elmer Kintz "27 
RIGHT TO THE TIP-TOP 
E
LMER KJNTZ '27 has been watching Notre Dame grow — right from the bottom to its very tops — since 1902. He was bom across the street on the comer of Angela and South Bend avenues where his folks lived 50 years. Sacred Heart was his parish church. His father learned carpentry working on the Campus and it just "came naturally" for him to study architec­ture when he enrolled at Notre Dame. 
But as young Elmer swam in the Campus lake and mooched lunches from the sisters running the dining halls, he had no idea he would one day be an important part of Notre Dame's physi­cal growth. In fact, when hard times forced him out of school after his first year, he left South Bend. But he stayed away only three years and he has since had the satisfaction of seeing two sons, John Patrick '64 and Kenneth '63, earn ND diplomas. 
 BUCKLEY 
6415 N. SHERIDAN RD., AFX. 1007 CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 

1928 
LOUIS F. 
RICHARD PHELAN died De c 22, 1967 foHow­ing a heart attack in Chicago. Dick had prac­ticed law in Chicago since His graduation from Harvard in 1931. He is survived by his ^vife and three sons, all of whom are N D graduates. Our dassmates BILL KEARNEY, a law partner of Dick's, and BERT KORZEN were pallbearers. Dick attended all of our Class Reunions. 
TOM BOV advised mc of the death of his brother, RAY BOV, De c 9, 1967 from emphy­sema after a long illness. You uill recall that when Ray returned for our 30th Reunion he was a mechanical design engineer ^^ith RCA in Cam­den, NJ. He lived with his family in Haddon­field, NJ at the time of his death. 
Congratulations to BOTTS CROWLEY upon his retirement from MacGregor Co. after 34 fcais of service and to ED McCLARNON on his retirement after 40 years from Travelers Insur­ance Co. Flease keep xae advised of other re­tirements. 
Many of you no doubt noted the reference in Drew Pearson's column to US District Judge WILLIAM JONES as "one of our more coura­geous jurists." He was mentioned in connection with ordering the FBI to produce files in a much­
.pubUozed court case. 
Our former Class Pres. JIM ALLAN has been very £Q with a heart condition. It \vns good to hear from JOHN GAUGHAN who has been with Ebasso Services for the post 20 years and is now in his second year in Spain working on elec­tric power i^ants. Previously he spent two years in the Dominican Republic 
Bn X ARMIN is recovering from vascular surgery in Huntsville; Ala. SAM DUNN is still mth the Fazmezs Rice Corp. in Sacramento, CaL 
Now he is superintendent of con­struction at the mammoth Athletic and Convocation Center and is "the key man," according to Chuck Lowry, the architect's inspector on the job. "There are a lot of superintendents around the country as good and who know as much as Elmer Kintz," Lowry says, "but very few who cooperate and try to get along with others as he does. He is very, very competent and he is responsible for the remarkable progress on the job." 
Kintz, who was 65 last Labor Day, has been working at the A&C Center ever since the groundbreaking. Bar-' ring the unpredictable South Bend. weather, he has it two months ahead of schedule now. He has worked for Schumacher Sons Construction Co. 26 years and this is the third ND building he has superintended. (He warmed up on Fangbom and Fisher halls.) 

and has established an organization called CAL­BAKS to raise funds for American Jesuits in China. 
Our Class Vice-pres. Jl&f CANIZARO sent a newsy report on the following: ANDY POWERS is assistant mgr. of Austin Nichols Co. of Miami^ a house of imports of liquois. Andy was at deathU door in 1965 with an aneuryism. Jim believes that Chicago attorney JOHN CAVANAUGH is the only classmate with a child in elementary school. Please let me know if he is wrong. Jim is planning a special meeting for the architects at the Reunion. Jim reports the following have 
JUNE 8-9 
advised him they will attend Ihe Reunion: BILL DALY and DICK QUINLAN from Boca Raton. Fla.; AL SCHNURR, PHIL PITON, HENRY MASSMAN, BILL JONES, MARTIN RINI, DAVE SMITH, JOE KINNEARY, JOHN CAV­ANAUGH and BOB GRANT. JACK SONN­HALTER is now living in Beachwood, Ohio. 
BILL MURPHY called from his home in Ed­wardsbui^, Kfich; saying he hoped we could ar­xange for a get-together of the Class at his home during the Reunion weekend. He mentioned how much he enjoyed visiting JOE DORAN in his new home out^de Lafayette, Ind. after the Purdue game. Bn.L KIRWAN called when be was in Chicago for the furniture show. He will attend the Reunion. 
While in St. Peter's square in Rome De c 31 on my return from a visit to Israel, I met John 
At general superintendent, Kintz's leqwnsibility is expedition of all work. He meets every two weeks with all the 
•ubcontractors — by the time the build­ing is completed that will be 50 or 60 different firms — to coordinate all work. He's a master timekeeper, too, setting the dates for materials to be ordered and delivered. And he keeps a watch­ful eye on the University's pocketbook. For instance, he hustled to order the kitchen equipment before March 1 when the steel price escalation pushed cost up two percent. 
No doubt other jobs will present a (pedal challenge to Kintz, but it might be hard to top the A&C Center where he says "you could put Stepan Center in the middle of the track in the spare' arena." He shows visitors around like a proud papa. "You know it's in­teresting," he points out, "that the ton­nage of duct work for refrigeration and ventilating b greater than all the structural steel used in the building. There are 691 tons in each of the domes but the ducts weigh more than 600,000 pounds." 
And there's another intriguing thing about the domes. As Kintz pokes aroimd among the hod carriers and pliunbers, he sometimes spies an aban­doned lunch sack which he rummages through. If he finds some cast-off cookies or bread, he makes cnmibs and spreails them out for the pigeons and a duck who are wintering in the upper girders. That's just one way Elmer Kintz watches out for the transients 
— present and future — who call the A&C Center their home-away-from­home. 
Connolly who taught philosophy at ND when we were there. John is leader of the government in the Senate in Canada. I saw VINCE Mc-ALOON who aliv^ys enjoys seeing visiting *28 men at the ND Hospitality Center in Rome. 
Please marl: your calendar and plan to order tickets for the Illinois game at ND Oct. 19 so you irill attend our 13th annual '28 cocktail party on the Campus following the game. 
CECIL ALEXANDER, who now Uves in Surf­«fc* Fla., has earned membership in the Presi­dent's Club of the National Ins. Co. of Vermont. Newsman GEORGE SCHEUER flew \rith ND Air ROTC to Atlanta, visiting Lockheed and Georgia Tech rally and game. George is pres. of the South Bend-Mishawaka Deanery of Cath­olic Men. 
_ Congratulations to FRITZ WILSON on his elec­tion to the ND Alumni Board. Fritz is a partner in Wilson-McGinley Distributors, Pittsburgh. Fritz has seven children, one a graduate of and anoth^ a sophomore at ND . 
I assume you have reserved June 7, 8 and 9 for our -40th Reunion as you were asked to do in the card from JOHN FREDERICK. By the time this appears in print, you will have heard from JOHN IGOE, EUGENE FARRELL and JOE BRANNON regarding the Reunion. 
Thanks to the many classmates who have %vrit­ten to me regarding the survey of the Class. 
Rcase complete the yellow card enclosed with this issue and mail it to me \rith news and ad­vice regarding your attendance at our Reunion June 7, 8 and 9. 
Classmates are inrged to write to the five men whose names appear after their name on the Class roster mailed in November. My Freshman Hall roommate, Joe Brannon, now a district mgr. with Montgomery Ward, in writing to his five classmates, conduided his letter as follows: 
'1 had an mde graduate from ND in 1906. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRU. 

He was a classmate of Father 0*Hara. His name is TOM LALLY and he is still an active attorney in Spokane, Wash. In 1946 he was preparing to attend his 40th Class Reunion at ND. I was in Spokane at the time and was not particularly complimentary to him. In fact I asked him why lie would travel 2500 miles to fraternize with guys he hadn't seen or heard from in 40 years, ftly uncle told me then that the reason he was going was because he had neglected his former friends for 40 >'cars, that this was probably the last chance he would have to see most of them and that he wanted to live, at least for a few days, ^vith the people who had been so friendly with him in 1906. 
"And that's the reason that I am going to attend the 40th Class Reunion. It will be my first Reunion. To be real honest, I made no attempt to attend any of the Reunions. But now I am 60. This may be my last chance to 
 STAUDER 
ENGINEERING BLDG. 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 

1929 
LARRY 
Order your football tickets for the Purdue game Sept. 28 at ND and plan to join the '29crs at the after-game get-together in the Engineering Bfdg. 
Dr. WILLIAM L. NEFF Avrites: "ThU is my fifth year with Dickinson State Col., Bismark-Mandan, ND following my many years as supcr­inlcndent of Mandan City Schools. I reside in Mandan (PC Box 622) where my assignment is director of teacher education for the college in Btsmark and Mandan. 
• "Our latest publication is the Philippines edition of our World History for a Better World. In May my wife and I will travel to South America to update our world history in that area. 
"I would be grateful to classmates or Alumni who irauld assist me in locating any ND men in Lima, Peru; Giia>-aquU, Ecuador; or ports in Colombia or Panama. I would like to have **off­the-record" conferences which relate to a true understanding of local history. We are using Grace Lines and will return in June." 
PETE MORGAN writes from Princeton: "Things are going along well. I had a State Dcpt. assignment in the Fiji and Solomon Islands in the summer of '66. I took an AmeHcaa Track Team to Jamaica in '65. 
"Our oldest daughter is in the Sisters of Mercy about ten minutes from JOE LENIHAN's home. Pete was married this past summer and u with Union Carbide's Chicago Office. Our youngest, Frbie, is a senior at Immaculata in suburban Philadelphia." 
We speak for the Cbss in expressing our sym­pathy to Mrs. Stephen R. Rrchtarsic, 1825 Ashby Road, St. Louis. Dr. STEPHEN R. RICHTAR­SIC died Nov. 21, 1967 and the January-Febru­ary ALUMNUS included his obituary but word did not reach your secretary before that deadline. Remember Steve in your prayers. 
Regards to the RAY BREENs in Cleveland. We had a note which stated they wouldn't be attend­ing the last October get-together because of Ill­ness in the family. 
STEVE McPARTLlN, manufacturer's represen­tative. Lake Bluff, lU. sent his best wishes and 
1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 46356 

J.\CK ELDER of Sinclair and Indianapolis wrote us about two very moving events: "In response to your request for news of some of the gang of '30 I would like to relate a couple of experi­ences which I feel will be news to others. It \\-as my honor to be present at the final rites for our dear friend and teammate JACK CANNON in Columbus, Ohio. I drove over from Indianapolis the morning of the funeral and H-as edified by the genuine sorrow that was displayed by all. Of course DAN, Jack's brother who went to ND and Omar, another brother who went to St. X in Cincy, and a sister were the chief mourners. 
" 'COZY' KOZAK, JOE RYAN and good old JIMMY McGARRY of ND cafeteria fame wtre the ND representatives at the funeral. ED 'MOOSE' KRAUSE had been at the wake the day before but had to go on to Atlanta where N D ^\-as playing. M^r. Casey, at whose parish Jack wonhipped, eulogized Jack with sincere expres­sions of piety. He said that for the last five 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
see you or for you to see me. 
"So I tuge you to attend the Class Reunion, I don't expect to know two percent of my class­mates when I arrive, but I certainly intend to know them all before I leave. Won't you please make your plans now to attend?" 
AtORE NOTES 

G. CRONGEYER and Dr. D. BRADLEY ably teamed in discussing **New Sins and Old Com­mandments" at the successful Alumni Seminar in New York in February. Ato there: ED BOURKE, VIC FISCHER, B. GARBER, R. HAMILTON. At the dinner JOHN BARTLEY told me of the death of another classmate TOM BOYLE, 79-23 Calamus Ave., Elmhurst, NY. He died in Janu­ary, '67. He is survived by his wife, Lillian, two daughters and several grandchildren. Tom had been in transportation. 
Reunion mail returned showed that EDWARD 
regrets that he had a commitment last Oct. 28 but will try for the Purdue game and class get-together next Sept. 28. 
FRANK CROWE, 2320 W. I3-Milc, Royal Oak, Mich, was unable to get tickets for either game last fall but will try again and is already plan­ning to attend the 1969 Reunion. 
HUGH O. CAHALAN, 124 Third Ave. SW, Ft. Walton Beach, Fla. writes, "I had a gay time with VIN NfcALOON in Rome. AU should visit with him." 
JOE KEEFE, Winter Haven, Fla., writes, "My son Patrick Dennis, who was at ND before he decided to become a priest, is asustant pastor at San Jose parish in Jacksonville. JERRY '62 is studying to become a pilot with United Air Lines. Mary Joe, one year at St. Mary's, is in San Jose, Calif, with Food Machinery; Michael Brian, one year ND, is in Viet Nam, a Lt. in Intelligence 05339031, 172 Military Detachment 173rd Airborne Brigade, APO San Francisco 96250. Give my regards to Rev. LOUIS THORN­TON. Best regards to JIM ARMSTRONG on his retirement." 
Margaret , wife of the '29er in Pitts­burgh whose name was not included in the list appearing above our memo of lost October, wrote **my name (husband's) is not on the list and my wfe says it's not in the budget." Please let your Class secretary attempt to clarify what has received comment from you and from others. The names on the list are taken from a log of those who have attended recent football game get­togethers. In 1966 a fate September mailing simibr to that of 1967 was sent only to these "regulars." 
In 1967 the Alumni Office generously offered to make the mailing and to send it to the entire Class. This, by the way, brought us new names to add to the list as well as most of the news appearing in this issue. Now, Margaret Anony­mous, please include it in the budget, order Purdue tickets and wait to see whether you receive a mailing in 1968. In the meantime, send ns some news on your dear husband and yourself, and dispel the mystery of your identity to me and to the entire Class. Thank you for ^u r lift to the column. I should delegate my writing to my own Margaret. 
years when he opened the Church in the eariy morning the first person in and for Mass was old Jack. We will always remember that guy at an AU-American football player, gendeman and N D man. 
"A few days before Christmas it was my pleasure to journey to Danville, HI. to attend a *This is Your Life' party for BOURKE MOT­SETT, Rev. Motsett if you will. He's pastor of St. i^iul's there and loved and revered by all who know him. The party was a complete sur­prise to him and when he was led on stage to speak to the "girl scouts" the auditorium, which was filled to the rafters, neariy collapsed with the roars of acclaim. A number of ND men were there to honor Bourke who was an athletic manager* when I was on the teams at ND. GENE HOWERY, former miler at ND who now resides at Crawfordsville, Ind., in\-ited me and I surely was deeply grateful to receive the invitation and to be with him and the other ND men and Father Bourke to help him celebrate 33 years in the priesthood. 
"I see JOHN ROCAP occasionally and, of course, most all of the N D men here in Hoosier-J. CARRINGER, 9Q2 Pint St., Jackioii,. Uk ^ (fied July 28, 1967 of a coroaaiy. 
W. F. ARIIIN ii ampoff tfaoM who do not expect to be bac^ havus had m^jor soigery ("feeling good"). R. A. WEPFNER is iccover­ing fraoi a second heart attad. JOE KTSST.TNG's daughter muaiber three is being married June 8. EMMET DOHANVs health won't pamit. Rer. C F. HABIEL can't come east again so soon after going to E]qm. W. H. LAYNE, bai^ in New York after a year ia Sanu Monica^ wishes aU classmates wfere in |300,000 houses. 
Dr. F. W. FORD wiU hurry from son Mike's graduation at Greightoa Medical School to oar reunion. He may brii^ lus daughter. His mfe died May 1, 1963, Son Tom attends U. of Moo­tana. Older your football tickets for the Illinois game, Oct. 19, the date for the Cla> cocktail party. 
—BERNIE GARBER 

Fatheia GEORGE L. DUNN CSC, JAMES 
NORTON CSC, C. A. HOOYBOER CSC and 
WILUAM COUGHUN CSC, aU Clas of '29, 
aD at U. of Portland—your names were omitted 
from the "list" for same reasons as stated above. 
The mailii^ was prepared with the intent of 
sending it from my desk to those most likely to 
attend. It was not changed when the Alumni 
Office consented to mail it to the entire Class. 
It was your secretary's thought that the probabil­
ity that the name of a former roommate or other 
close friend of « *29er on the list might motivate 
him to attend. Unlike the June Reunion, this 
get-together is as much for the "Margarets'* as 
the '*Joes"—if you have doubts, just ask one 
of them represented on the list. 
Others in the **no tickets available dub" were 
DON McGOIX, Toledo; ROBERT ALT, Grand 
Rapids, and BERNE LOSHBOUGH. Kttsburgh. 
(Pittsburgh .. . that eliminates one Pittsburgh 
wife). 
H you are on the Christmas card list of Eliza­beth and JIM KENNEDY, 65M W. Imby St., Chicago, you again saw pictures of them and their 12 children. Ptefaapi you received a copy of Jim's newsletter of De c 19 in which he tells of son, Tom, who has been teaching at Sts. Peter and Kiul School in Springbrook, Iowa. In late November, Tom had trouble with double vision and headaches. Doctors cfiagnoscd the cause as a probable brain tumor. Tom underwent major brain surgery Dec. 5. A massive but benign tumor was partially removed. He was conscious for only about a day after the surgery and then lapsed into a coma. Thb was still hb condi­tion Dec 19. 
Then Jan. 7, we learned from Jim that Tn n has showed marked improvement. "He could ^>eak hoarsely but understandably. He could see to recognize people and to read large headlines on a nevrspaper. He could hear with one ear and take food by mouth. He could sit up for an hour or so. He could think clearly and was characteristically more concerned %rith the com­fort of others than with his own plight. He is eqiedally grateful for the prayers of lus friends for hts recovery." 
Use the yelk>w card on p. 30. Don't fail us. 
land as I roam the state for Sindaur Refining Co. seeking new service sution sites. We have a fine ND club here in Indy, more than 500 members, and are active in all ND affairs. Again thanks for the Xmas note and best of the New Year to you and all of the men of good old *30. As Class representative for the Alumni Fund drive, I want to thank all *30ers for their fine support." 
The news of PAUL APPs death was a shock to all of us. His widow, Mn . Mary App, told us that he (fied of a heart attack July 3, 1967. I am certain that Clas members wiU remember him and his family in their prayers. 
BOB HELLRUNG from St. Louis and BO RICHARDS of Kansas City each sent holklay greetings with added notes that things are going Wtll for them and their families. 
PAT GOGGIN of Seattle, our Class representn­tive in the far west, sent Christmas greetings from his territory to aU the hds of 1930. 
Today we recdved a very cheery note from s son of JIM O'KEEFE now living in Mt. View, Cal. Jim has had many sons and danghtas lecentljr attemGng NO and St. Ilaiy'i. The 
youns nan veho wrote is MICHAEL O'KEEFFE, 
2nd Lt. in the .^r Force, now at Amarillo AFB* 
He giaduated last siunmer at ND. 
Capt. GEORGE 0*MALL£Y of Washington, 

DC wrote ns durins the holiday season: ''I have 
been in Washington, DC ^nce January, 1965. I 
served for two years as Assistant Judge Advocate 
General of tiie Navy. For the past year I have 
been officer in charge of the Navy Appellate Re­
view Activity in Washington. This activity con­
tains the appeUate courts for the review of all 
serious court marttal cases in the Navy and Ma­
rine Corps. There are 29 Navy and Marine 
Corps legal officers and 19 ci^^Hans assigned to the 
Navy appellate review actiwty. Lt. STEVEN 
WEIDNER, USNR, an ND law sdiool graduate, 
is one of the Navy lawyers scrying %vith me. 
''About a month ago I received a call from TIM TOOMEY who is working for the Labor Dept. in Washington. He lived for a time with BILL WALSH, labor advisor to the Secretary of the Navy. However, Hm is now H^^ng on his own. He told me that Bill has not had a good meal ance Tim departed. Tim also informed me of the death of LARRY CRONIN in NY and that LARRY "MOON' MULLIN w ^ in a hospital in NYC. I wrote Moon a get-well note. Moon is a commander in the Naval Reserve with many 
JAMES T. 1X)YLE 1567 RIIX:E AVE., APT. 308 EVANSTON, ILL. 60201 

1931 
FLORENCE J. McCARTHV 
6 RIVER RD. 
SCARSDALE, N.Y. 10383 

1932 
One of the most lewarding Christmas presents I lecereed was a letter from BILL POWER which included llis "Reunion Reflections" and saves me writins a column this edition. It may seem pe­culiar that a Christmas letter appears in the April issue but that's what the man says. Our Fel> niary issue was locked up Dec. 13. With those words of explanation here's what Bill had to say: 
**The frost went on the pumpkin several months ago and now snow is on the ground but all this does not dim the pleasures associated ^Wth the 35th Reunion of the Class of '32, now more than six months behind us. A few viwd reflections stand out. We did feature rain—a great tropical downpour—but there vfas no Sadie Thompson present. 
"The Class of '32's Committee on Obesity and Paunch Resrarch will, shortly after the flist of the year, issue its final report. An authorita­tive source stated the committee wiU conclude that, man for man, the Qass of '32 has less fat around the middle than, say, the Classes of '37 and '57. The fact we are a depression Class has something to do with it. 
"There is no truth to the tumor that Class Pres. WALTER 'KE ' TERRY refused to eat in the cafeteria when he learned margarine was served there. The *axle grease' was hidden before Ike went through the line. 
"American Appraisal Company's JOHN UT ­CHER inspected the new buildings on Campus, quickly computing the square-foot cost and the premium for 80 percent co-insurance. TED HAL­PIN, Milwaukee's Dupont paint distributor, fol­lowed on John's heels trying to determine what brand of paint was used. 
"Lacking a styptic pendl, JIM DUBBS' face 
1933 JOHN A. HOYT, JR. GILLESPIE & O'CONNOR 342 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 
We learned with deep regret of the recent death of Dr. DAVID G. POWERS who died Dec 14 at New Yoric Hosp. Dave was a prof, of speech in the dept. of conmiunication arts and sciences at Queens CoL Dave can best be lemembered from his Campus days as the head chcerieader fiom 1929 through 1933. 
Active in the writing field, Dave wrote 14 books on public speaking and popular psychology. His Uve a Neto Life published in 1949 won a Literary Guild Award and was a selection of the Executive Book Club and the Family Reading Club. His personal records at Queens College describe him as having been a dynamic speaker who challenged his sttulcnts with stimulating qucs­{nends in the Navy, About a week before Christ* mas I had a Christmas card from l.arry's wife Mary in which she said that Larry was much better and they had returned £rom NY to Chicago. 
"I was shocked to read in the local paper of the death of JACK CANNON. I notified T ^ Toomey and wrote a letter of condolence to DAN CANNON. Jade was a great football i^ycr and a lovable character. We will long rcmend>er dte many stories of Jack's escapades and heroics dn^ ing his days at ND. Jack will be sorely missed at our Reunions. 
<1 recently heard &om EDIE KELLY that JOE KELLY of Brooklyn had an opcradon, but IS malung a speedy recovery. The Walker brotfiezs are still li\ing in the Washington area. Jack has retired from his civilian job with the Army and Frank has a position as a civilian lawyer wztfa the Army Engineers. 
"I do miss the news items concerning our Qaa in the ALUMNUS. I know you must be furnished news items to print in the Class nevv^. I believe we do have a Class vice-pres. for the eastern US and one for the western US. I feel they should have some responsibility for providing news item along mth other interested classmates.** 
BOB HOL&IES of Indiana BeU and South Bcod took me to lunch on Valentine's Day. It «a> 
was bloody but unbowed at the Alumni banquet, HERB GIORGIO has told Social Security he won't be drawing his benefits at 65 — not with two small daughters as an incentive to keep going, FLO MCCARTHY appeared about every hour with a diflferent array of stylish sports ensembles. Some think Flo "moonlights" for Brooks Brothers. 
"It was learned the Class had intended to pre­sent the first of a series of annuity checks to JIM COLLINS who has retired as Class secre­tary after 30 years of service. However, some darned fool wearing spiked golf shoes walked on the data card in the computer room so all was lost. 
"Capt ROBERT E. LEE VSN disclosed that the knot in the golden cord on Tom Dooley's naval sword in LaFortunc Center was not prop­erly two-blocked. Some of us enjoyed the hos­pitality of DICK FABRYCKI at his home in South Bend—^marveling at his trophies of tlie hunt garnered during his safaris throughout the world. Thanks, Dick, for the bottle of Cutt, Saik given each guest as he left. 
"BILL BLIND still retains the freshness of youth. If Bill had appeared in white tie and tails, one would have thought he was headed for the Palais Royale to chair the Junior Prom. 
"It is doubtful that any other Class had its Mass celebrated by a classmate with the rank of Archbishop. The Class of '32 did in the person of the Rev. PAUL J. HALLINAN of Athmta assisted by two other classmates. Fathers JEROME WILSON CSC and JOHN H. WILSON CSC. 
•Msgr.' PAIIL O'TOOLE was in fine voice in the role of lector. F^ul was being congratulated on all sides on the occasion of the recent ordim­tion of his son for service in the Archdiocese of Chicago. 
"ED KOLSKI's frantic passing of the collec­tion bucket was an attempt to raise funds to endow the WALTER TERRY Butter Research Program at ND. When it dawned on everyone that ND docs not have a College of Agriculture it was decided to give the money to the students who manned the beer bar. 
tions and critical comments relating his teaching to current problems. He is sur^^ved by Ins widow Julie and a son, 2nd Lt. GUY DAVID POWERS USA '61. 
JOHN J. REILLY (who Bved at 268 Merioa Ave., Haddonfield, NJ) died Nov. 4, 1967, a o 
JUNE 8'9 
cording to vrord received from the Philadelphia area. To the families of each, we extend our sympathy and prayers. "In Paradisum Deducant Te Angcli." 
ED ECICERT, our Class Pres., had a Keunioo much better than the usual heart-shaped box of 
bott4)ons. Bob thought we should start some pre-
Eminary talks about the 1970 Reunion. And he 
looks to young and healthy that he can be that 
Optimistic He also gave me the following notes: 
"At the time of his induction into the Football 
Ban of Fame, Jack Cannon was honored by Ins 
long-time friend, HUGHIE MULLIGAN, who 
happcas to be JOHN QUINN's boss. After the 
party I received a note from Jack which, I think, 
characterized him. In his note. Jack eipressed 
bis appredation for John's work in arranging the 
party. He said also, *Life in itself is good. I 
was cxtremdy happy to think that my many good 
friends u-ould take the time and spend an evening 
about good old times. There is only one Hughie 
and it b a privilege to be classiGed as one of his 
personal friends.* Doesn't that sound exactly 
like Jad? 
"I saw John Quinn with his son at the Purdue 
game. John told me that Hugh Mulligan was 
hosiritalized. We hope that by now he has fuUy 
recovered. I saw JERRY HOLLAND at the 
Orange Bow! but could only wave to him. 
"JOHN MALONEY was at the Miami game 
nlly. He managed to see all ten games. These 
hwyexs don*t have to work very hard.** 
Please use Ae yellow card. 
"FRAN OELERICH issued peppy appeals every honr to organize a baseball game. MiluTaukee would not have lost to the Braves if it had Fran with his zest for baseball. FRANCIS 'CHIUST­MAS CARD' MARLEY came through again this jrear. What a wonderful looking family, Fran! 
"The time-filled three days did not permit your scribe to see, observe and visit with all the other '32ers present for the Reunion. SufEce it to say they, too, endowed the Campus with their col­orful personalities and anecdotes against a back­ground of 35 years of successful accomplishment. Including the deceased men of '32, all are true sons of ND where loyalties were forged in an era of 'hard times' when there was a sense of responsibility and respect for constituted authority." 
We are saddened to hear that MALCOLM E. TROMBLEY LLB '32, a municipal judge, died uneiqicctedly Dec 9 at St. Joseph Hosp., Mt. Clemens, Mich, only a day after he w^ admitted. 
Some movmg stories: A. CHARLES HITZEL­BERGER JR has moved from Gravesville, Hcr­khner County, NY to Poland, NY 13413. HARRY MOSS JR, whose address we gave you an issue or two ago, says address mail to c/o Am. Cons. Sao Paulo, APO New York 09676. PHILIP DAHLBERG left Wausau, Wis. to take up resi­dence at 200 Roselawn Blvd., Green Bay, Wis. 54301 (but not in time, I guess, for the football season). HOWARD MILLER, long-time resident of Lakewood, Ohio, is now at 200 Voorhees Rd., Buffalo, NY 14214. 
And FRANCIS McCLAIN of Sheriiom, Mass. can now be reached c/o Belknap & McClain Inc., 650 Pleasant St., Watertown, Mass. 02172. Leaving Indianapolis is FORREST HAZEN—to reside at Star Rt. C, Box 124H, Camdcnton, Mo. 6502a Last but not least, ARNOLD WIENER moved from Gary to 1429 N. Arbogast St., Griffith, Ind. 
FRAN OELERICH and still-beautiful Helen visited us in NY in December and we had a blast. 1 was in Dallas for four days in late January but couMn't reach JAUfES "TEX" SIMMONS who was out of town. That's all for now. 
committee meedng in Chicago at the LaSalle Hotel Jan. 13. In attendance were CHARLEY CONLEY, CHUCK JASKWICH, CH.ARLIE FARRIS, LUCIEN KEMPF, Dr. JAMES P. DANEHY and Judge MORRIE LEE. The Com­mittee made arrangements for the Class Dinner and to invite certain University officials to par­tidpate in our 35th Reunion. 
TOM HUGHEN of Texas, JOE D.AVEY of Uiclugan and LARRY SEXTON of Indianapolis were added to the regional Reunion committee by the group meeting in Chicago. The Com­mittee also made plans to send out several letters to the members of the Class in the next fe%v months in an endeavor to get as many as possible back to the Campus for the 35th Reunion. 
Those seeldng information regarding transpor­tation fay car to the Reunion might consider contacting Charley Conley who resides at 100 E. Tmnbull Ave., Havertown, Pa. 19083. 
ALUMNUS AAARCH 19«8 APRIL 
We learned FRANCIS R. CAWLEY has moved and his new address is 2830 Bnwk Dr., Falls 

r
Church, Va. 22(M2. JOHN F. DONNELLY of Holland, Mich, is now residing at 853 Allen Dr* 

Anthony Knhmrieh ^3S
FRANCIS "NORDY"' HOFFMAN has moved out of Washington, DC and now resides at 6602 Karlson Ct., HyattsviUe. Md. 20783. JERRY A NEW DIREaiON IN CORREaiON 
GREER'S new address is 620 S. County Line Rd, Hinsdale, HI. 60521. JOHN LEVSTIK U now residing at 5237 Harvey Ave., Western Springs, 
III. 60558. LEE NULTY's new address in Falls Church, Va. is 2973 Monticello Dr. 
Over the years many of his classmates have been attempting to reach CHARLES W. PRES­TON who, in our time at ND, worked in Fair­banks, Alaska. From time to time we directed letters to Chailie*s home in Fairbanks hut they came hack with no forwarding address. Friends in the office of the Archbishop of Alaska at­tempted to run down the family and some of our good friends in the FBI took a hand in trjdng to locate Charlie—all to no avail. To our pleasant surprise, we understand Charlie was recently in touch \vith the Alumni Office and he now re­sides at 111 Riwera Dr., Apt. 44, Renton, Wash. 98055. We welcome Charlie back to the family circle. 
BILL LYNCH, lkL\RTY LINSKEY. GEORGE ROHRS and this writer were together the first weekend in February for the retreat held by the ND Club of NY at Lo}-ola Seminary, Shrub Oak, NY. 
Charley Conley tells us the ND Club of Phila­delphia is holding a St. Patrick's Weekend at Atlantic City March 15-17.. The aifau- will be at the Claridge Hotel. Charlie has suggested that the next meeting of the Reunion committee be at St. Patrick's weekend. You will be hearing more from the committee after tlus meeting. And we fervently hope we will be hearing from you via that tempting little yellow card just hanging on waiting to he tora out, filled in and posted pronto. 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 
523 W. HILLSDALE 
SAN MATEO, CAL. 94403 

1934 
WILLUM F. RYAN 
1620 E. WASHINGTON AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 

1935 
Valentine's Day has come and gone—and no valentines were received by yours truly. Don't you fellows love me? I will try again: 
My mother-in-law has a birthday this coming St. Patrick's Day, when she ^vi^ be 80 years old. She has agreed to postpone celebrating until I receive some correspondence from five of you. To make it easy for j-ou, and not to keep her waiting, enclosed in this issue is a ''yella" card for you to send some fast notes and *'happy birth­day" greetings to my mother-in-law, in care of your secretary, and at the same time prove that you do read the ALUMNUS and, most specifically, this column. Seriously, my dear classmates, I still love you—but I need at least some *'Voice of the People" letters to make this column meaningful. 
If any of you avidly read my column only each issue, and not the rest of the ALUMNUS, I call your attention to the photograph and announce­ment of the promotion of BILL KEEFE to the presidency of Pan Handle Eastern Pipe Line, on page 25 of the last issue. I am sure those of you who know Bill join me in extending congratula­tions to him. Bill switched his homesite from New York to Houston. His home address is now 5413 Sturbridge, Houston 77027 and he invites any of you who arc in Houston to visit with him. He has a son Robert who is a freshman at ND, Class of 1970. 
LEONARD W. SIEKEMEYER has been named as»stant controller of Merchants National Bank & Trust Co,, Indbnapolis. Prior to joining Mer­chants, he served for 18 years as treasurer and controller of Midland Building Industries. He fias served as president of the Indianapolis chap* ter of the National Association of Accountants and is a member of the Financial Executives Institute. 
MATTHEW J. WIXKEL has been appointed manager of American Smelting and Refining Com­pany's Hayden Smelter in Hayden, Ariz. 
I have also been informed through the Alumni Office of the Sept. 28, 1967, death of another classmate, CHARLES S. MORRIS. 
I mentioned in the last issue that the South Benders would like to plan a get-together after the Purdue game next fall. For those interested, a reminder that tickets and lodging accommoda-
M 
ILD-MANNERED Anthony Kuharich '35, MA '41 has engineered a quiet revolution in Indiana prisons and he's not done yet. Just going into his second year as Indiana Conunissioner of Correction, he commands the re­spect of men on both sides of the bars for what he has already done, is doing and plans to do to improve the state penal system. 
Indiana's Girls' School attracted na­tionwide attention a few years ago when the inmates rioted because of the poor conditions. There have been no such incidents during Kuharich's regime — even though there are no longer any psychiatrists at the institution. 
"What we did was take the coun­selors out of the front ofiSce and put them in the cottages where they were needed. Now we're getting at the prob­lems when the problems arise," he ex­plains. 
In retrospect the solution seems re­markably simple — and it's with this same common-sense approach that Tony Kuharich tackles all his prob­lems. Another Kuharich plan that is attracting much attention is commun­ity-based centers which will bridge the gap between the towns and the penal institutions. 
"What we've done in the past is pack off offenders and put them on a shelf. This was like brushing dirt im­der the carpet," he says. "We've never realized the problems start in the com­munity. That's where they should be treated." 
Kuhaiich hopes these community centers will alleviate the crowded con­ditions at the state Boys' School where "we've been putting them in the front 
-door and letting them out the back door because we're so overcrowded. If we keep a kid in his home com­munity, he could be seen more fre­quently by his parents. We've been tearing families ^lart rather than keep­ing them together. Many people just don't have the money to travel 160 miles to see thdr son." 

Kuharich put the touch on the fed-end government to give him an abandoned Air Force Base at Rockville to use for a pilot program — now he's working on gettii^ a half-million dol­lars a year to pay the personnel needed to staff it 
A former federal probation o£Scer «dio served Indiana's northern district for 20 years, Kuharich is a firm be­liever in the value of parole. Another program he is introducing calls for paroling first aSeadexa convicted . of misdemeanois. "Inmates mowing lawns aren't learning anything," he says. "They should be learning something constructive. Institutions were not built for the purpose of having in­
mates woik there." He feeb that having them finish their terms under parole supervision in their hometowns %nU lessen the chance of their comnutting more crimes. 
Within the next year Ktiharich hopes to be in cahoots with the state Mental Health Department in treat­ing alcoholics, who are now merely imprisoned in Indiana. And he hopes by September to have college freshman courses offered at the state's two major institutions in Michigan Gtf aad' Pendleton. 
All these progressive programs weren't even announced last December when Kuharich was honored by the' National Council on Crime and De­linquency. The Council presented him its Scales of Justice Award for his long and devoted service as an outstanding professional in the field of correctional service. But the trend was in the wind. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 

tions win, no doubt, be rough again. If any of Received a Christmas card from JOE MAHAR Judge on the Democrat tidtet in the South Bend yon have formulated plans, even tentatively, please along with a few lines telling that he and Mrs. prinuuy. Sorry for the delay of this news. let us know. We would like to start planning for flew down to Fbrida last fall to see the ND-The deadline being so close at hand, I will annual foods^ reunions, but to do the job light Ihfiami game which they enjoyed as the game was have to postpone %vriting more for now. I have we would like to know if there is any interest. great and the weather fine. It was thetr first ti ^ ciuite a lengthy letter from GEORGE WENT-When you send a "happy birthday" card to my to Florida to see how the other half lives. WORTH which I will write up for the next issue. 
nother-itt-law, let me luiow. JIM FOOHEY of Ft. Wayne wrote that he im JOSEPH P. QUINN That is all for this column, fellows, I am and quite a few of the '36m met before and >.0. BOX 275. LAKE LENAPE 
sorry to say, but if you haven't gathered it by after the Michigan State-ND home games. Last ANDOVER, NJ . 07821 now, I win repeat: my mail bag has been empty year DAN O'BRIEN had extra reservations at the these past few montlu. Elcona Country Club in Elkhart for dinner. The The Reunion promises to keep the secretary in-
1936 
result was that the follomng '36eis joined Dan fbnned haven't been kept. Where are all the LARRY PALKOVIC and Jane at Elcona before departing for home: lads who, under the influence of a good time, 
301 MECHANIC ST. 

BERT BAUR, ART CRONIN, ART MULHOL-said they would drop a note now and then? 
ORANGE, N.J. 07050 

UiND, JIMMY O'KEEFE, TONY MAZZIOm, Publidty has come in leaps and' bounds for Seems like this column is going to be short and HERMAN GREEN and Jun. Non-'36eis m the PAUL FOLEY. Note the article in Fortune, Timt sweet as no news is forthcoming. Please fill out group were Luke CarroU (son Paul '69), Joe and Our own ALUMNUS. I can see why he was die yellow card on page 30 if you want news and 0*Keefe and a friend of H. Green. JACK happy to have *'01d Joe" be the sec Paul must lorwanL GLEASON and TOM GRADY would have at­keep the travel agency busy with all his doings 
However, on the blight side I was shocked into and contributions to ad^'ertising and ND. 
tended but had to return to Chicago. Wbm numbnes last December jtist before Christmas Speaking of the press, }kfobil Oil has had a
were present also. It is hoped this will be an when I received a call from none other than lot of releases of late and I suppose J.ACK GIL­
annual affair for the last home game in October CY CONNORS, the old Bengal pro aU-Amcrican LESPIE is %irriting the copy. Pop must be proud 
which this year will be the Illinois game Oct. 19. wrestler bom Northampton, Ibfass. I could hardly I'm very grateful for your letter, Jim, so keep of his journalists tcxlay. DICK SMITH has been believe my ears t^ton learning who was on the the letters coming if you want news in the named the redpient of Phelps Dodge's Harold M. other end of the phone. To be sure it ^-as real ALUMNUS. Jim also promises to send me more Co^rove Award given each year to an individual pleasant smptise. We talked quite a spell and nen-s if and when it comes. '*who through faithful, unselfish, uncere and pez^ touched on all subjects concerning KD and class­Sad to report the passing of NICHOLAS CON­sstent leadership has enhanced the purchasing mates in particular. In the course of our conver­NOR JR who died in August, 1967 and JOHN profession." The award was presented at the sation Cy asked a number of times why we don't LOCHER JR who passed away in November, Southwestern Purchasing Conference in Tulsa and hear more ftonx our own phys. ed. class—so take 1967 at Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Fellow Alumni arc it is the highest honor the district can bestow. the hint, you guys, and write so I can relate asked to remember them in their prayers and Congrats, Dick—and those are the kindest words a 
some news happenings and make Cy happy. Cy Masses. saVqnan can say about a purchaang agent. also promised to drop me a few lines but I have A note escaped my notice last fall when PETER FRANK J. REILLY, editor. Soap & Chemtcdi no letter so iar. NEMETH lost his bid for nomination as City SptcUilUsMataxiney NYC recently was appointed 
plus 75 religious and there will be at 
Brother DonatiMS Schmitz CSC '41 
least 100 of each next year. We have 
W
• facilities for 300 but we vrant to keep relatively small." HEN he is reassigned this summer. He says he never once conadered the The influence of Brother Donatus' Brother Donatus Schmitz CSC '41, priestly vocation for himself — "and ' leadership has been felt in other coun-MS '49 can look back on an exciting I've been in a long time. I came in .: tries, too. The province started seven 12 years as superior of the Midwest when I was 24. new foundations (missions and .school) Province of the Brothers of Holy Cross. "It's all tied up in the idea of teach­in Africa in the last ten years and During his tenure he has established a, ing, the brothers' apostolic role and every year he gets appeals for 15 to 23 legacy of both new buildings and new potential for good. It's like asking a brothers to staff schools around the conmiitments. man why he got married. He'll say world. "They love the America's abil­
He was responsible for the erection *because I love this particular woman.' ity to organize," he laughs, "although of a complete province center which You must have an internal conviction they may not like you at all otherwise! 
includes a handsome junior college, in-that this is the best way for you to We coidd start a half dozen schools firmaty and community chapel. A sec­serve God. Status does not enter into tomorrow if I had the men." ond major contribution was commit­it — that would be like choonng a Obviously, while Brother Donatus ting funds and brothers to the African wife because she had money! Many has been giving his time and talents 
mission fields in Ghana and Liberia. times the greatest things you do merit to the enrichment of the life in the 
But for Brother Donatus, working the least notice — like helping an in­order, he has been finding satisfaction with the men in his order has been dividual. You may get a great personal himself. Asked what he will be "taking the most important part of his job. At reward but it's the last thing you would away" from his experience as provin­least once aimually he counseled with want to put in the newspaper." cial, he reflected, "not this building; 
each of the 500 brothers, most of whom In addition to a general intellectual not this management; not the fact of are stationed in six states, Africa and renewal throughout the province. Holy knowing you can maintain an institu­East Pakistan. This travelling took up Cross Junior College (across the Dine tion of quality education. All these 
WHEN A SUPERIOR IS NOT PROVINCIAL 
I half his time but he believes "you have and just south of St. Mary's) is a tan­are eztremdy significant. But the only to be deeply concerned about the pro-gible monument to Brother Donatui^ thing you can take out of the office fessiorud and religious devotion of these leadership. "It originally started (in with you u the knowledge that some­men. They are human beings, too." 1964) as an idea for the education of how you have been able to work with 
Why would a man choose the life yotmg members of our society," he others, to direct them in their apos­of a brother rather than that of a says, "but almost inmiediately we tolates to meet the greatest satisfaction. priest? "That's an interesting ques­agreed to take in lay students. This lliese things are known only to God, tion," according to the spiritual leader. year there are 40 lay men and women you and the other person." 
to the board of governors of the Chemical Spe­dalu'es Mfg. Assoc. WILLIAM J. SULLI­VAN JR has been awarded the first annual out­standing alumnus award at St. Xavier HS, Louis­ville. Nice to be fint. Bill. I had a special Christmas note from Kev. BOB LOCHNER CSC, now chaplain at Columba Hall. He returned to Campus from St. Ed's HS at Cleveland. 
JACK BAKER finally comes to our attention as he has been appointed prcs. of Hccht Co. (fa­mous stores). Jack, you will have to make a Reunion one of these times. BILL AfUUlEN-
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 
1139 WESTERN AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 4G625 

Count down! And cough up $10 resistration fee right now for our tremendous 30th Reunion next June. Only one more issue will be sent yoa before the gathering of the clan, so take heed now and send in your $10 with your notice that you will join us under the Golden Dome. Gen­eral Chairman JOHN PLOUFF has planned some surprises for us. And he*s organized! BOB DU­BOIS is chairman of organizing area Reunion chairmen. BILL GIBBONS heads the welcoming committee; DON FISHER, the Friday night recep­tion; JIM I.AHEY, the Saturday night cocktail party; ED CRONIN, toun; and DON HICKEY, programs and memorials. 
The last should be incentive enough for all to return because there are more each year who never will return. Come pray for those who have departed and play with thtise who made those 
1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 
1804 GREENWOOD DR. 
SOUTH BESD, IND. 46614 

From the top o' the column, tbis heretofore unheeded (well, almost) request. . • . How about completing Dr. Thurin*s handy-dandy 11*1 prescription card (enclosed in this issue on page 30)? The Rx is guaranteed to cture this column's ills .. . and we'll have a "Class In" at "Dad's Pad." 
1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
233 W. CENTRAL AVE. LOMBARD. ILL. 60148 

We are facing another crisis which requires imme­diate action by every one of you who reads this column. The only mail received from members of the Class of '40 is a Christmas card from JOHN JULIAN in Clarksburg, W.Va. Thank you so very much for the card, John. 
The ALUMNUS oCSce furnished the news that Brother JEREMIAS MYSLIEWICZ recendy was "focused" in the Soutk-Weit Review, Austin, Tex., for 30 years of devoted, dedicated services and excellent religious spirit. He is noted for his reading and study and has kept au courant in Biblical scholarship and Church renewal. An avid sports enthusiast, he delights his confreres with 
1942 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY P.O. BOX 8640A 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60680 

DONALD F. O'BRIEN has been elected to the board of ilirectors for a three-year term. This is wonderful news—congratulations! 
Since leaving ND, LEO BUSmfAN has been a very busy man. After World War H, he re­ceived bis MA at Columbia in 1947, teaching at Fresno State and Orange Coast Col., Cal. until 1955. From 1955 to 1963, he was assigned to the State Dept. Education Program in Japan and Korea under U. of Maryland supervision and Armed Forces Iiutitute. In 1963 Leo went to the Institute of American Indian Arts where he was head of the dept. of fine arts. In 1966 he re­ceived a grant from the government of Alberta and is presendy studying ethnic groups of Indians and Eskimo in Calgary, Alberta, Canada as assoc. prof, of art. 
We are deeply grieved at the death of THOMAS DILLON Dec 23, 1967. 
NAN keeps asldng "what do we hear?" There has to be a first time for everything—^at least a note or use the postcard insert in this AuJUMVa. EDDIE REARDON has already issued, a. warning to Ara for the coming Iowa game. Son Kerry completed a fine frosh year at Iowa and will be ready to nm against ND come falL Thanks for the letters, Eddie. If the others were 10 percent we would need another issue of the A1.UMIIUS. 
You never know where Rev. "NED" JOYCE CSC will show up. Our records indicate he gave the graduation address at Belmont Abbey CoL 
years at ND the greatest. 
JERRY KANE should be one of the first here now that he was elected to the Alumni Board. Congratulations, Jerry. So should DANNY SUL­
JUNE '8»9 
LIVAN who travels this territory from Qucago where he says a huge caravan is forming to make the June scene. 
Two boys, as Father Farley used to say, who should make the trip are DICK MOLER who moved from Long Island to Atlanta and JOE MEHRING who moved from Kansas to Dan­ville, NJ. Why? They're used to it and probably haven't unpacked yet anyhow! 
Dateline Chicago: From that affluent Class Treas. DAVE MESKILL, a bit of info on RAY SCHLECK and BARNEY SULLIVAN. Ray has son Charles E. at ND, Class of *71, and a daugh* tcr at St. Mary's, class of *70. Baniey, cx-Coffey« ville, Kan., now Tulsa, Olda., has a son at ND, Class of '70, and a daughter at St. Mary's, name and class not known at this writing. 
The drum-beating for our 30-year Reunion will soon begin. To kick off the '39ers, your secre* 
his expert analysis and almanac knowledge of school and TV athletic events. 
Change of address notices were rather scarce last month, but I can report that JOE SOTAK has moved to 4065 Mayfield Rd., Cleveland 44121; ED DALTON now lives at 432 Newtville Ave., NewtonviUe, Mass 02160; DICK LYNG, who should for^vard some ne\vs from the West, can be reached at 4100 Folsom, Sacramento, Calif. 95819; 
J. THOMAS BROWNING has moved to 31 Golden Ave., Batde Creek, Mich. 49015. 
The following men have new addresses remain* ing in the same town: BOB CENTLIVRE, 4912 Old MiU Rd., Ft. Wayne, Ind. 46807; TOM FLAD, 6200 Mineral Point Rd., Madison, Wis. 53705; Or. JOSEPH FELDMEIER PhD '42, 631 Hfidway Lane, Blue Bell, Pa. 19422; FERRIS SAFFA, Box 3165, Tulsa, Okla. 74101; DICK 
1943 
JACK WIGGINS 
J125 BRIGGS AVE. LA CRESCENTA, CAUF. 91214 

JOHN J. GILLIGAN is the Ohio Democratic party's endorsed candidate for the US Senate. He stresses his intention to support programs to help suburbs as wcU as central cities and calls for understanding and support, cspcdaUy at the federal level, of the many problems that face suburban communities. 
BOB *<BUCK" MUELLMAN phoned from Lakeland, Fla. asking the whereabouts of HARRY FLORENCE, whose name was not on the recently published Class list. You can reach Buck at 222 Wildwood, Rt. 6, Lakeland, Fla. 33801. 
Please use the post card on page 30 to write 51J 
JUNE 7»8»9 
(NC) and leceivcd an honoiaiy degree. These notes were iott la the Kemuon rmh aiod he praln ably gave ns the ume qxceh later. Be <fid get his Christmas cards out this year. Sad note this week bom GOKOON MURFHY, the oU roomie. Hii dad paiMd away in Fefaraary. AL SCHWARTZ caaw vp with the "Hardware Man of the Year." Had to break down and go to Vegas for the award and then oa to CaEfbraia to bother PARKER SULUVAN. 
Again, news nukes newt ta keep me inlomcd. 
Last isne we carried the deEghtfuI news that JACK SCOTT has a new son. This fact just may get him one of the a%vards that win be presented at the Reunion. However, we now have the sad news to teU yoa of the passing at Jack's mother in February in Soath Bend. Onr ancere sym­pathy. Jack. 
Brraiise we have a lot of meetings to run to in preparation for yt»r return, we're cnttiog thii issue short. Bendes ytn are no doubt amdous to stuff that |10 bill in an envelope right now and send to me for your Reunion registratioii, right? Great idea! Go ahead and do it right iHiw! 
And, while you're revved up and in motion, do us an the favor of nnng the yellow card so we can all relish the news in the itext issue. 
WILLIAM J. UcNAMARA, now a bwyer in Oak Ruk, HI., wrote he not only will attend the Reunifm tlUs year but «nll work on the local committee and will bring along JACK CLEARY who might be joining his law firm. 
taiy proposes a series of pre-Rcmuon, xe-recogu­tion sessions immediately after each of the home games next fall . . . ux of them .. . provided there is good and sufficient reason to plan that many. So, si^gest yoa add your wishes to ole Doc's handy-dandy card. You'll all hear more about thb after the Meskills and Hannans con­vene during the Junior Parents Weekend March 29 and 30. Hope at next wtiting to report those of '39 seen and visited. 
METZGER, 2SS0 Foxdale Ave., Oceanside, NT 11572; JOHN DRUMGOULD, 39 Cannon St4 Poughkeepne, NY 12601; BOB SCHMIT, ISIS 18di Ave., Escanaba, Mich. 49829; PHILIF ROS­BACH, 583 Banks Mill Rd. SE, Aiken, SC 2980L 
There b a yellow card insert in this issue wliich I want each of yoa to tear oat ar»l send me some news this very mitmte. 
There is another item which deserves our con­sideration. Many of the other Clanes have bad some interesting fall Class reunions during one of the football weekends. Let me know if there is sufficient interest to make some special arrange­nents for a get-together. 
1941 
lAMES F. SPEUMAN SPELLMAN » BIADDEN 
3«Z MADISON AVE. 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 

ye olde scribe ginns a brief resume of your <loings* Flan now to make your reservations for the Siver Reunkm June 7*9. Let's make this the l^^est and best Reunion! See you there! 
JOE GOEKEN has left Alton, 111. after sellins lus bakerT>ice cream-&ozen food concern to enter business in Alhambra, Calif, as district mgr. for Sonotone. You can reach Joe at 133 N. Garfield. 
1944 {OSEFH A. NEUFELD '.O. BOX S53 
GREEN BAY. WIS. 54305 

Armther colmna, another deadline—all past due. Let us hope the good nature of the editor has not become callous due to tardiness of scribes such as this ime. 
In January death called another fellow dass­mate, JOSEPH M. CHENEY of Schuylerville, NY. To bn family is extended the sympathy and prayers of all '44ers. Sympathy also goes out to JIM MALONE of Toledo, Ohio upon the death of Us mother and to JACQUES VEENEMAN, l.ooisviIle, upon the death of his brother Bob yAo was a member of the Class of '47. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1768 APRIL 
To comment on the receipt of Christmas cards 
when it is Eastertide docs seem somewhat ridicu­
lous. Yet this is the first opportunity since then 
to acknowledge them. To BILL TALBOT, to 
JERRY XILLES, to TOM ROLFS, to GEORGE 
BAKISCILLO and to FRITZ FUNK, who some­
times claims membership in the Class of '46 al­
though he was an original *44er, a most appre­
ciative and sincere thank-you. 
Shordy after the last column went to press, 
along came a letter from Prcxy George Baris­
cillo. He requested the addresses of the nine 
area vecps from whom he has had little or no 
contact these past four years. He %\Tould Hke them, 
together with the co-chairmen TOM ROLFS and 
"BLACK" JOHN MURPHY, to begin prepara­
tions for the 25th jubilee now only a year away. 
Your suggestions arc welcome—in fact, urged. 
 LINEHAN 
1945 
FRANK P.O. BOX M. 5000 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. 13902 
Missed the last deadline because of holidays. 
Sorry! 
Another dassmate has gone to his eternal re-wiird—BILL CLEMENCY. He w^s in the NYC school system for 18 years and at the time of his untimely death was principal of Glcndalc Jr. HS. He is survived by his wife Cathlcen and 10 chil­dren, 123 Lakeside Dr., Rockvillc Centre, NY. The Alumni Assoc, and Class will remember him in our pra>-crs and Masses—RIP. Condolences to the family of fellow Class secretary, JACK iULES '47. 
 P. RICHISKI 
6 ROBIN PLACE OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 
1946 
PETER 
JAMES V. DONNELLY has been named mgr. of financial controls for Sinclair Petrochemicals Inc., NY—^a newly created position. He formerly was mgr. of accounting for SPI, a subsidiar>' of Sindair Oil Corp. He received his degree cum laude in business adm. from ND. He and his family reside at 19 Adrienne Dr., Old Beth-page, N*Y. 
D. P. SIEGEL has been promoted to senior \-icc-pres. of Associates Commercial Finance Co., South Bend. 
I received a most welcomed note from my former roommate, great pitcher and wonderful friend JACK BARRETT. Recently Jack and his wife Sue Ann became happy grandparents. Their oldest son, a sophomore at the U. of Louisville, and his wife became the proud parents of a baby boy. The entire Barrett family live in Louisville. 
TOM BURNS and his wife Joanne sent enjoy­able greetings from Clovis, NM. With Janette Clare (2) at home, Charlotte (5) in kindergarten. 
1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 ROLLING HILLS RD. 
CUFTON. N.J. 07013 
As the time rolls aroimd for another column, we are sorry to say we have little or nothing to offer as far as news from other classmates. It has been a very quiet first quarter and the news seems to come in cither feast or famine volume. 
The only v*'ord I have received directly is a letter from JIM DROXEY telling us his mother passed away in January. A Mass will be offered for her at ND and our sv'mpathy is extended to Jim on the loss of his mother. Jim is in Mount Lebanon, a suburb of Pittsburgh, where he has his own office equipment co. 
Information has been received from the Alumni 
Office that BOB NEENEMAN died Dec 5, 1967. 
I have no particulars other than his last address 
was 10915 SW 53rd Ave., Miami, Fla. In like 
manner word was received that ^fARSHALL 
KEARNEY died in March, 1963. 
ART BRADY writes from Portsmouth, NH where he is a Ford dealer, that he will be at the Reunion. Art has seven children but will leave them in Ford Country when he heads for Reunion Country. BRUCE HILL has been named \ice-pres. of marketing at Inorganic Chemicals Div., Olin-Mathieson Chemical Corp. and is liv­ing in Chappaqua, NY. 
In view of the lack of other information we are sort of caught short for words at this time so, to keep the column going, we vdU ramble on a bit about the Class Reunion coming up in June. 
Your Class secretary has not been able to get this Reunion organized to the extent he would like because we haven't even had a volunteer 
Unbelievable, but Tom Rolfs obtained tick­ets for the Packer championship game here in Green Bay from BERNIE BOWLING, Louisville, who won them at a Louis\'ille ND Club taffie. Tom reported being at the SUMKfA kicked in Milwaukee earlier this year. He is chainnan of the dnve in that area. 
A welcome letter was received &om BILL WALDRON, Livingston, NJ, who wrote that he and his wife Anne plan to attend the Junior Parents' weekend at ND in spring and hope to see the FRANK STUMPFS, the JOE FIEWEG-ERs and the BILL O'CONNORs, all of whom have sons in the junior class. 
ANSELM S. BURKART u-as promoted recently to senior vice-prcs. of Associates Commerdal Fi­nance Co. in South Bend. 
A lengthy letter came from Black John Murphy. 
FRANK DULLER is now mgr. of production-sales technology for Owens-IIltnois Glass, Teredo. While in Charlotte, NC, Mary Jeanne and Frank saw a lot of Flo and JIM RETTER. The Retters are now^ living in Stamford, Conn, while Jim.is located at headquarters of Union Carbide in NYC. 
HANK FRAILEY's daughter, Margaret, is a freshman at St. ftfary's, while Kathleen is a soph at Marymount, Va. Hank is gen. mgr., optical products dept.. Coming Glass Woilcs, Coming, NY. DAVE LANDIS is superv^ing attorney with the FCC Broadcasting Bureau in Washington, DC. Rev. JOHN CONNELLY is director of the Aquinas Institute and chaplain to the Catholic students at Princeton. 
Margaret (9) in fourth grade and Terence (12) in junior high, the Bumses are kept pretty busy. Tom also devotes a great deal of time as patrol dad for the Boy Scouts. 
It has been brought to my attention by a fellow employee that former ND pitcher and roommate of mine BILL GRANDFIELD has moved back to Springfield, Mass. after having lived in Wcstficid for a number of years. Bill and his vnfe Mickey wish to be remembered to tlieir many ND friends. 
Has anyone recently heard from JOHN P. McGUIRE, that successful and aflauent New Yoric lawyer? I haven't—so John, \*iiercver you are, please send in some news. Tliat also goes for all of the Class of '46! The 25th anniversary is rap­idly approaching so let's get a little reactivated. 
Hope to have more the next time. 
P.S.: Just thought I'd let you know that yours truly v%-as elected a member of the Board of Tax Review in Greenwich, Conn. 
Don't dare deny us the deluge of data we desire—diligence is the word! Return those ydlow cards. 
from the South Bend area offer to be of some help in just seeing that we get a square meal when we arrive on Campus in June. I have been asking for someone to come forth but no one has been heard from and I'm 800 miles away. I assume some of the members of the Class of '48 read the ALUMNUS and know we have this event com­ing up. A general letter has been sent out by the Alumni Office giving you the names and addresses of members of the Class so you can look up some friends nearby and a follow-up 
JUNE '8»9 
letter has gone out giving more facts about the get-together. 
This is one of those affairs where you have to FLAN AHEAD a bit to get a day or so of vaca­tion from the job, get the children's graduation and confirmation dates changed so as not to conflict with the Reunion and put aside a cou]Je of bucks a week to pay for this big extravaganza. 
You have been reading a lot of exciting infoi^ mation about the University of late. This is one Reunion that should be real interesting and ^ve everyone an opportunity to see for hi"iM;lf and express himself accordingly. 
There will be more information forthcoming aliout the Reunion but, in the meanwhile, some information forthcoming from ^'ou would be ap­preciated. There Is only about one more edition He had an airport visit in Clevehnd with BILL McNAMARA who says he is relieved to know he no longer is classified as deceased. John wonders about many original *44ers who, accord­ing to a very recent roster, are not recorded as such. To name a few of approximately the 75 he listed—PETE ASHBAUGH, ROBERT B. CASEY, LEO RUMELY, BILL SLOWEY, JIM DALEY, FRANK COLE^L^N, JOE RUD, LEO DONATI, JIM RICE, KERMIT ROUSSEVE, DICK FREUND, JOE FARMER, PAUL McCABE, FRANK ROMANO and BILL HARFORD. Pei> haps they are classified as members of another Class. If they desire "rejoining" '44, just drop the secretary a note. 

News is scarce and the column is becoming shorter each time. You are urged to use the yeUow card (page 30). Send it PROMPTLY! 
Class Pres. BILL KLEM's daughter, Kathrj-n, is a freshman at Rosary Coll. Bill and Jeanne Marie have four other children still at home. Janet and Dr. EMMET SHEENAN have a daugh­ter, Mary Ann, at St. Kfary's and a son, Afichacl, at St. Joseph's in CoIIegeville, Ind., and daugh­ter, Kathryn, at Bowling Green. Nancy, Emmet and Pat are still home. 
Former Class pres. and former Democratic lead­er JIM CLYNES has been named to the board of directors of the Tompkins County (NY) Trust Co. He is also serving as acting city judge of Ithaca. I^ast few issues of ALUMNUS have been very interesting. Classmate A. ANDERSON spoke up. How about filling out the card in this issue? We would like to hear about you and from you. 
•| A J n DAN T. HUNTOON, Avis licensee I M ^ / Wcc-pres. in Southern California, ••-"^ ' has announced a multiple sports ad­
vertising package with ND (football), Los Angeles lakers (basketball) and Los Angeles Kings (hockey). Avis will co-sponsor all prc­game and post-game shovw. Rev. WIEFRID A. &fENARD CSC is attending a 34-weck chapbin officer course at the Army Chaplain School, Ft. Hamilton, KY. EDITOR'S NOTE: Where oh where is Billy? Has anyone seen the illustrious Class president? He was supposed to meet us here and talk about a suc­cessor to Jack Aliles. It's really the latter item that concerns us. The Class needs a secretary to keep ole '47 together. Though the Class never set any attendance records at Reunions, '47 was recog­nized for having one of the most faithful and tal­ented scribes of all. This is a tradition that can and should be carried on. It's not a tough assign­ment and, what's more, the editors promise not to bark or bite. We need takers and we need them 
after this one before your Reunion and in my **Swan Song" column we'd like to go out in the style to which wie are accustomed. 
*« A J A I'EO L. WESLEY I U 4 U 1 ^ DRIFTWOOD LANE Xv^V ROCHESTER. N.Y. 14617 
 W. THORNTON 4400 MONSERRATE ST. 
CORAL GABLES. FLA. 33146 

1950 JOHN 
Somehow I feel the years are rolling by faster than I Vk-ould like. TOM McKINLEY's son was first string left guard on Ara's 1967 team and had a fine season. (Well coached in high school by DICK SOISSON.) 
I received a beautiful photograph of Ibfary and JACK McH.\LE and theu: Mike, Thcrese, Elaine Brian, Sheila, Kathy and John. Lee and DICK KLEE visited them last fall in Washington, DC. Now that Afary Pat and I have a planing house­boat on Biscayne Bay, perhaps we will get a litde activity out of all of you who quieUy pass throi^h the Miami area. Pat and JACK COURTNEY are well anchored in Dearborn and have Katie, Colleen, Susie, Ann, John and Bill. Dottle and GERRY RAMSBERGER in St. Peters­burg, Fla. have as an extracurricular activity, a preschool facility, the Raimberger Day Nursery and Kindergarten. Dottie and her oldest, Kerry, are going to junior college together. 
A nice Christmas card from ED J. DWYER, Republican standout in Michigan City, where he and his wife Janet and children Sharon, Sheib, Dan, Ned, Mary Paula and Kathy reside. He is general sales mgr. of Josam Mfg. Co. 
RALPH STRUHS joined the Phillips Petroleum 

responsibility for finance department activities in Baltimore. He has been 
ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
FARRELL "49 GROSS '49 

company's Atomic Eneisy Div. at the National 
Reactor Testing Station near Idaho Falls as a 
technical writer last October. He and Lora live 
at 1195 E. 16th St., Idaho Falls. 
I had a pleasant conversation with BOB MICHAUD, counsel for Bcndix Aviation and pres. of the South Bend ND Club. Others of our Class who were presidents of clubs in 1967 were JACK DONNELLY (Ft. Wayne), PETE FRIDAY (Pittsburgh), RUSS SKALL (Fox River Valley), DON LUECK (England) and mjself (Greater Miami). THOM.AS P. KEN­NEDY has been promoted to mgr. of Betty Crflcker Enterprises and Special Activities by General Mills. He was previously product mgr. in the company's grocery products dept. LEON HART has been named marketing mgr. of Amer­ican Brakeblock, a division of the Abex Corp. 
Our prayers for ED DWYER's parents and TOM O'GRADY's father, all of whom passed on last fall. 
The ALUMNUS magazine comes out six times a year. We need information for the column. Please fill out the card in this issue and send it to me to keep six issues a year interesting. Best regards, SPARKY. 
 JENNINGS 
BORG-WARNER CORP. 
200 S. MICHIGAN AVE. 
CHICAGO. ILL. 6060t 

1951 
JAMES 
Your prayers arc requested for VERN BURR­HART who was killed in an auto accident in California Feb. 3. At our Reunion two years ago  did not know that Vera (Father Basil OSB) 
Congrats 
Fred D. Schoppman "301, Ft. Wayne attorney, was named by Gov. Roger Branigin as judge of Allen County Su­perior Court 3. A Democrat, he will serve the remaining tenure of the pre­vious judge who retired because of ill­ness. 
Frank J. Pollnow Jr '42 is now vice-president of the Specialty Products Group of W. R. Grace & Co. He is also president of Grace's Vestal Labora­tories Division in St. Louis and will continue in this position. Pollnow joined Vestal in 1942 and became president in 1956; in 1962 he was appointed vice-president and director of DuBois Chem­icals of Cincinnati. 
John T. Ford '47 ^-^ been named as­sistant vice-president and comptroller of the affiliated Chesapeake and Ohio and Baltimore and Ohio railroads. Ford, who has been chief accounting officer for the two railroads since De­cember, 1964, will also have general 
GUION '49 

was starting a leave from his post in Nebraska. He left in the good graces of his abbot and kept in touch with him to the end. Vera initially worked in St. Louis as a computer programmer where he met Miss Jackie Bieg. At the end of last summer they were married. Vera and Jackie seemed an excellent match because of their mutual idealism, both seeking to follow the will of God in their oW)i lives. Last fall they moved to La Crcsccnta, Calif, and the Burkharts had been very happy in their new location. Our condolences to Jackie and to Vcrn's parents. Several people have called for Jackie's address. She can be reached in care of her sister, Mrs. Dorothy Becker, 9102 Rosanna, Garden Grove, Calif. 
Apologies to our next two correspondents who thoughtfully forwarded letters in time to make the last ALUMNUS, but their missives were buried on a sloppy desk. Renee O'NEILL wrote from 1800 Clover Rd.. Northbrook, 111. where she and JOHN have recently moved with the clan. The O'Neills have five fine bo)'s including 15­ycar-old twins Tim and Jeff; Kevin (13); Ter­rence (7); and John Jr. (5). John is mgr. of the order div. of sales for Inland Steel at 30 W. Monroe in Chicago. 
From Box 368, Holstein, Iowa 51025, Margaret McGUIRE writes that husband JIM is pretty busy. The McGuircs visited the Campus last August and were really impressed. They planned to attend the Michigan Slate game but Mary Pat arrived Oct. 11 as No. 7 in the McGuire house­hold. They also have Molly (12), Peggy (11), Timothy (8), Maureen (6), Michele (4) and Martha (2). Jim sustains the family tradition 
with the C&O since, 1931. 
Rev. John V. Vanden Bossche CSC 
'47, president of Notre Dame College in Dacca, E. Paldstan, has been named a member of the Conference of Presi­dents of Catholic Colleges of Southeast Asia. Father Vanden Bossche has been head of the college since last simmier and a member of the faculty since 1953. As a member of the Conference he will be working with other college leaders on common educational problems and pooling resources and experiences. 
James J. Farrell '49 i» manager of 
General Electric's new residential dis­tribution transformer department in Pittsfield, Mass. The department has plants in Hickory, NC and Oakland and Merced, Calif, and has responsi­bility for serving the nation's electric utility industry with transformers used in the residential distribution of elec­tricity. 
Alvin C Gross '49 b^s been appointed manager of economic research, a new position at the Commercial Products Group Headquarters of North American Rockwell Corp., Pittsburgh. He joined Rockwell after a nine-year association with Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. where he was most recently business economist. 
John F. Guion *49 lias formed his own insurance firm, American Republic As­surance Co. in Des Moines, whose pri­mary interest is in the relatively new field of variable annuities. President Guion's company is the first in Iowa to be registered for separate variable an­nuity contracts to be used in pension and profit-sharing plans and tax shel­tered annuities for teachers. 
in the real estate and auction business. Alirgaret mentioned they see Pat and BILL PUETZ. Bill is the mgr. of the group division of Travelers Life Ins. Co., 1230 Badgerow Building, Sioux City, Iowa 51101. Bill and Pat have two boys, Joe (2) and John (1). 
JOE McNITT attended Northwestera and re­ceived his JD in 1954. Joe is a partner in the firm of Pope, Ballard, Uriell, Kennedy, Shepard & Fowie at 33 N. LaSaUc, Chicago. In August, 1966 Joe and the former Ruth Glass were wed and they live at 619 W. Belden, Chicago 60614. 
Another attorney is WALT CLEMENTS with Taylor, Miller, Alagner, Spro%%i & Hutchings. Walt has been a long-term holdout but was sched­uled to enter holy padlock Feb. 24 with Miss Kathryn Planning, presently the director of home economics at the Leo Burnett Agency. They will be at home at 502 W. Roscoe in Chicago after the honeymoon. 
BOB BACHNER is pres. of Sokir Systems Inc. in Skokie, HI., manufacturers of light-sensitive semiconductors. Bob married the former Mary Elizabeth Burnett of Kansas and they have three girls: Louanne (12), Grelchen (U) and Lisa (10). The Bachners live at 9027 Clifton, Niles, III. 
GEORGE SCHWIND telephoned to announce the arrival of Georgia Ann Jan. 5. Mother and child were doing fine and George was justifiably proud. 
LARRY PANOZZO and his brother DENNY '60 operate Panozzo Brothers Funeral Home at 300 
E. 115th St. in Chicago. Lany lives at 11432 
S. Union in Chicago. When Larry was in Trieste in 1952 he married Netti Rigoni and they have 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
Albert Grzehien *49 
FOR JOHNNY, MARY AND THE GIPPER 
||N'E reason Johnny and Mary are slow 
" learners may be deficient hearing. To 
help teachers show their pupils how to 
read lips, Albert Grzebien '49, assistant 
professor of speech at the U. of Rhode 
Island, prepared a manual, "Speechread­
ing Through Sports," which has just been 
published by the .\le.\ander Graham Bell 
Assoc, for the Deaf. 
"The majority of children who are hard 
of hearing are boys. Since most boys are 
interested in football I chose that sport 
for this manual which I hope to follow 
up with similar manuals on baseball, bas­
ketball and other popular sports," he said. 
"Sports have become so much a part 
of our way of life, that teaching speech-
reading by focusing on sports seemed a 
'natural,'" saiid the professor who was a 
speech and hearing therapist for 10 years 
before joining the URI staff. 
As might be expected, Notre Dame 
football shows up frequently in Grzebien's 
manual. Under "Famous Players and Col­
leges," students will learn "Don Miller 
played for Notre Dame." Later they'll 
know "the four horsemen" was the name 
of ND's famous backfield, that Paul Hom­
ung wore number 5 and was a famous 
quarterback, that George Gipp was a great 
back who was nicknamed "The Gipper" 
six children: Larry Jr. (14), Dennis (13), Danielle (11), ilichael (9), Philip (7) and Claudia (3). 
ANDY McKENNA with his wife, the former Joan Pickett, and their six children live in Long Beach, Ind. Andy is prcs. of Schwarz Paper Co. which produces and sells industrial paper packag­ing. Andy can be reached in care of their ofHce at 1430 S. LaSalle St. in Chicago. 
JOCKO MULDOON is taking up a collection to pave a 400-foot spiral driveway around PHIL FACCEND.Vs house to give us all a place to park during the football season. Jack has asked that his name not be mentioned in the column any more because he has received threatening phone calls after consccuuve mentions. In fact a wooden replica of the dome has been burned on his front lawn. 
The Old-Timers Game is scheduled for &fay II but at this writing the time of the contest has not been announced. We will try again to show up in section 24, row 55 at the game. 
Please check this issue and, when you find a yellow card for Class nev\*s at page 30, drop us a line. Evexy bit of assistance is appreciated* 
1952 
WILLIAAf B. KING 613 E. DONMOYER AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 
To begin on a note of elegance, one of our coeds, Sr. REGINALD OSF, w-ntes from Niagara Falls, NY that she is an active member of Mended Hearts Inc. She b also continuing .her work vnxh the Volunteers of &Iount St. Mary's Hosp. Sr. Reginald H-as the recipient of the results of mod­em research in terms of a very successful heart operation. Previously she had been assoc prin­cipal of St. Mary's Constitutional High at Lan­caster, NY. In her new assignment at St. Ikfary's Hosp., she has been able to organize a jr. volun­teer program and a health careers educational program as a service to teenagers of the ennrons. 
FRANK IklANZO writes from his la^v office in Santa Ana, Calif, to let us know he is actively raising funds in Southern Calif, for the ND law 
and died while he was in college. 
In a quiz they are presented these facts: 
"I was a fullback for Notre Dame. I 
weighed only 162 pounds. I ran behind 
the line called the 'Seven Mules.' I could 
run the 100-yard dash in less than 10 
seconds. I played in the Rose Bowl. This 
was the only time Notre Dame played in 
that Bowl. Who am I?" 
And some sons of alumni from other schools might get into a speech contest over one of the comments Grzebien inter­jects: "Knute Rockne may have been the best football coach of all time." Of course, the other schools and their greats get equal time, but the professor notes "Pride in anything associated with Notre Dame has a habit of sta)'ing for a lifetime." 
Because many speechreading teachers are women who find the background ma­terial and rules of football unfamiliar, Grzebien included a short paragraph in each lesson to explain more fully a par­ticular aspect of football. "I have in­cluded in the 26 lessons definitions of terms such as bootleg, fake and flanker, a diagram of a gridiron and three crossword puzzles with football terms." 
He hopes the teachers' manual, which he wrote in the simimer of 1966 under a $1200 URI faculty fellowship, will also be use­
school. Frank married a native Califomlan, Pa­tricia Jean Hawkins, in '65 and now has a tittle girl, Catherine Margaret, five months. Frank re­creivcd hb law degree from ND in *36 and shortly after that he was in the Aiarinc Corps stationed for several years in Japan and Okinawa. . Say, Frank, it's a long way from Old Forge, Pa. to Santa Ana, Calif. 

LOUIE GLEASON writes from County Clare, Ireland that he is on a special assignment exam­ining the bad^round of some ''lace-curtain" Irish from Boston. Louie is wiling to share infonna­tion concerning "skeletons in the closet*' for a small stipend—it helps defray costs of traveUng. 
HENRY "HANK" BALLING JR writes in from Buffalo, NY that he and wife Barbara are holding at six children (three and three). Hank is still scc-treas. of Balling Const. Inc. of Tona­wanda, NY. He has been recently appointed by Bishop James A. McNuIty as vice-pres. of the Nat'I. Catholic Laymen's Retreat Conference. Hank's main job will be to improve both the format and the membership of a retreat and the retreat houses. In his spare time, he also serves as Cubmaster for 43 boys at his home parish of Our Nativity at Orchard Park and, Biother Hank, that is a full schedule. 
Aeroquip Corp. of Jackson, Ihfich. has jnst promoted CARL F. B.-\CHLE to the new pontion of mgr. of marketing development for marine military prods. Carl vnU be responsible for mar­keting superv'bion of current products and new product development, market research, and sales analysis, training and coordinating advertising pr(H grams. Since he has to move to Jackson, Mich., he will also have to be on the alert for prisoneis escaping from the local prison. After flying for the Navy, Carl managed to pick up a master's degree in bus. adm. from Northeastern U. in Bos­ton. 
CaH also gave us ne w of DAVE BUDINGER who lives two doors from him in beautiful New England. He also has been in touch with JUSTIN BOLGER, a ^ce-pres. with Amicon, a growin^p chemical qiecialist enterprise which he helped found four years ago, and DICK WOLLENSACH 
ful to hospital clinicians and others work­
ing with hard of hearing children of jimior 
and senior high school age. 
Discussing the growing nimiber of chil­

dren with hearing problems, he pointed 
out that parents often learn of this in 
their own children only after an exam­
ination by the school nurse. "In any given 
school there will be pupils with varying 
degrees of aural impairment," he said, "so 
it behooves the teacher to articulate clear­
ly with distinct lip movements." 
who is with ITEK and doing very well. The hills 
and dales of New England are loaded \rith Notre 
Darners. 
FRED HARTMAN writes from Indianapolis that he received his CPA certificate in 1961 and is now -in bu^ness for himself CPA-ing all over Action City, US.\ (Indianapolis, to you out-of-state people). Fred and his wife, the former Mary Atice Whitmore, have five children whose ages range from one to nine. Fred says RUSS DAGES stopped off in October and his fog horn is in 
excellent condition. 
DICK RECKER has moved from Chicago to 

Elkhart as part owner of an insurance co. Dick 
still manages to escape marriage, never gains an 
ounce of weight and has all his hair. He sets 
the pace that "kills" but "ole Dorian" seems to 
look better all the time. 
FRANK ROUSE is also CPA-ing along the 

Kalamazoo trail. Frank is a regular attcmbnt at 
all home football games and invariably checks the 
action at Joer's or Woodward's Cafe for former 
classmates. 
CHARLES L. NICHOLSON, a territory sales mgr. for Johnson & Johnson's health care div. has been named regional man of the year for the Atlantic sales region. The award was given to Nicholson in recognition of his leadership, initia­^ve, teamworic and sales performance. He was presented an inscribed silver service and a cash award. 
ROBERTO POMA *65 tells us that ALFONSO ALVAREZ '52 developed £1 Salvador's first stock exchange. Hu first million he intends to keep. The second million goes to the Class secy, for postage stamps and cards. 
As a last note to you grads who can read but can't write, there is a *'yeller" card insert in thb mag on page 30. How about scratching a few notes about your successes or failures so your pocnr Class sec won't have to be mailing up these long lists of lies? P.S.: Any >-ou guys interested in getting together after the ND-Northwestcm game this year? Let me know. It can be ar­zanged* 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19<8 APRIL 

1953 
W. F. "BUD" STURLDREHER 11006 JEAN RD. S.E. 
Hl^l^VILLE. ALA. 35803 

Well, gang, it's getting pretty close to Reunion 
time—our 15th! Whew. I hope you have your 
chips lined up - and plans made to attend June 
7, 8 and 9. Let's give it a big try and make it 
this time. OK? 
Please notice those swell yellow cards are in­

cluded in this issue on page 30. Either you or 
your better halt use them, PLEASE! Your old dad 
needs some news badly. 
And now for the news: FRANK STEIF writes 

from 2304 Bret^ Champaign, III. 61820: "As you 
can see 1 am living in Champaign, the home of 
the U. of Illinois. I am still with Magnavox 
as asst. controller for cost for the Urbana facility. 
We have four kids, three girls and a boy." 
BOB O'NEILL reports in: "Still here in Toledo (3932 Elmhunt Rd.) and with the same firm for the last 12 years. Graphic Arts Corp. of Ohio. Nancy and 1 now have three adopted children, Todd, 6, Julie, 4, and Gregg, V/i-I recently was honored to have been elected navigator of the 4th Degree, K of C Assembly here in Toledo. DAN NOE has just been transferred back to Toledo from Wilmington, Del. by Sun Oil. He and Joan have seven children. Saw the JOHN SCHMIDTS; they recently moved into a. beau­tiful new home. JOHN STOEPLER, prof, at Toledo U. law school, is making a bid for City Council after successfully getting through the primaries. ED CULKOWSKI moved into a new home this summer. Also see JIM SILK and wife. Kay frequently." Gee, thanks for the informative note. Bob. 
Before I forget, let's hear from someone, any­one, suggesting a game for a fall Class reunion. Nothing formal, but I've noticed as a Class we're behind the rest of the classes in this respect. As long as many of us do attend home games, why not plan to get together after one? 
JOE CLANCY took time out to write: "After two-year tour in 3klarine Corps (captain), I re­ceived my law degree from ND in 1959, then received my master of bws from Georgetown in 1962. In private practice with firm of Richey 
1954 
MILTON I. BEAUDINE 
21 SIGNAL HILL BLVD. 
E. ST. LOUIS, ILL. 62203 

Sorry about that last article, gang, but at the last deadline date I was having enough trouble breathing without taking the trouble to write. It took six weeks and a few "thou" to leam that pneumo-thorax means collapsed lung and ''doctor" means . (No sense editorial­izing against them, I guess we all make mis­takes.) Let it suffice to say all is well now and 1 hope to see you all after the ND-Oklahoma game in September at our annual reunion patty. 
Having missed an article, I'm loaded with news—not all good unfortunately. With deep regret I must report the death of two classmates. GEORGE STEHLIN died in April, 1967 and Maj. LARRY CORBETT died in February, 1968. Your prayers will be sincerely appreciated. 
Rosemary and JOHN LIBERT, with their four girls and a boy, have moved to Kenilworth, III. John is ^vith Dow Jones & Co. Inc. KEN SCHWARTZ'S wife Pat wrote a great letter with some real refreshing ideas for a better Alumni Assn. Thanks. Ken is a project geologist for Pan American Petroleum Corp. and resides at 7314 Brou Lane, Houston. The Sch»vartzes have four children. 
Had a great visit with Barbara and WEBB ARCENEAUX last fall in Charleston, W. Va. Webb's put on a few pounds but was still recog­nizable. Webb reports that HANK CLANCY finally tied the knot and that at last report A. J. DONIUS was hustling pastry for Mr. Donut back east. RON MAZZOLI turned politician and won last May's primary for state senator. Ron has been practicing law in Louisville since 1962 after working for the L & N RR. Ron and Helen have two children. PAT CARRICO is married now and still living in Denver, Colo. MIKE McGRATH u a VP for a' Louisville trust CO. and TOM VIVIANO owns a TV and stereo outlet in Tampa, Fla. 
DAVE GILSDORF has moved to 1039 Fremont St., Menlo P^k, Calif. TOM McHUGH has joined the faculty of Kenyon as asst. dir. of phys. ed. and athletics and has moved to Gambler, Ohio. MIKE CELESTE advises that he's an en­gineer at GE and owns the Fayetteville Bowling 
AlUMNUS MARCH I?i8 APRIL and Clancy in Washington, D C Returned to Our Lady's Chapel in the Main Church at ND in 1965 to marry my wonderful Margaret; two children, Susan Marie, 17 mos., and Kevin Bit-rick, one month." Thanks, Joe. His address; 5913 Welbom Dr., Wood Acres, Md. 
Big ED COLLINS signed in: "Counselor at Mt. San Antonio Col., Walnut, CaEf. Married; have a boy (8) and a girl (5). Master's in coun­seling and guidance from USC in August, 1965. (Our Irish Coffee victory celebration at the mar­ried students' apartments at USC was somewhat dampened by the unexpected victory of USC— but last year's game more than made up for it.)" Ed's address: 322 Garden Glen, W. Covina, CaL 91790. 
Here's some news from a classmate we haven't heard from for too long, PAT GUNNING: "Just a few lines in response to your plea in the latest ALUHNUS magarine. (Nobly said, Pat. Are the rest of you readers getting the hint?) 
JUNE 8'9 
I am still in the Navy and am presently instruct"' ing young jet jocks in VT-26 at Chase Field, Beeville, Tex. After several tours away firam fighters, I've had to trim down a little and get back in shape to keep ahead of these young tigers —^not everybody is growing a beard and burning his draft card these days. We have lots of real fine young men in the pn^ram. After being overseas both at fivo and 10 years, I'm hopeful I can finally make a Reunion next June." Pat's address: 1413 E. Bowie St., Beeville, Tex. 78102 
And here's one from a very active ND man in Indianapolis: **Just a quick note to let you know we had a baby girl; now six girls and five boys. The 16J4-galIon delivery of milk Saturday re­minded me to write you. (Your mental processes leave me a bit confused, Tom; if you had said beer reminded you of me I would have imder­stood . . . but milk?) We also just sold your 
Lanes in Syracuse. (Old Milty's current average has slipped to 188. True.) Mike and his bride have three boys and two g^ls. 
Now for the really big news. JAKE NOONAN, one of the really authentic bachelors, has given it' all up for married bliss. He married the former Jean Nicholson Nov. 25, 1967. Joyce and JIM DeCOURSEY had a baby boy, Ted, last September. PHIL BREHM and his bride an­nounced the birth of their third daughter, Erin Ann, Oct. 14, 1967. Phil is practicing law in Green Bay, Wis. DICK MARTIN reports that MICKEY MORAN is (maybe "vras" by now) about to be married. Dick, BILL FALMON and JIM GREENWELL visited Atlanta for the Ga. Tech game and had a great weekend to­gether. JERRY KIEFER lives in Atlanta now. 
JERRY FONS MD is practicing obstetrics in Cudahy, Wb. Jerry married his grade-school sweetheart soon after graduation and now they have six little Pons. TED EWING o«ms and operates his own radio station, WENG, in Engle­wood, Fla. After two years in the Army Ted got married in 1957 and now has five childien. He received his MBA from Wayne State in 1960 and moved to Florida three years ago after working in Detroit for WJR radio. DICK EIHt, completely recovered from his Naval Reserve in­jury, is fiying Convairs again for American Aii^ lines. Dick has spent some pleasant evenings with Mary and JIM DRESSER and their five children in Phoenbc recently. JERRY POST is flying for AA out of LA. 
MEL JIGANTI, 403 Sunset Rd., Winnetka, HI., reports PETE KELLY has transferred to NYC and is still with John Blair Inc. Also JACK McINERNEY straightened out his slice only to be thrashed on the links by TONY MANDOLINL JIM FREMGEN is visiting prof. of accounting at the U. of Hawaii where he, ha' wife Eleanor and their two sons are enjoying the surf and pineapples. BILL WOODWARD has moved to Green Bay, Wis. and is dist. mgr. for Rex Chainbelt Inc. The Woodwards have three girls and one. boy. Bill recently ran into VERN ESSI in Cleveland. CHARLIE O'NEIL is an art director for McCann-Erickson advertising and lives on 15 acres in Brighton, Mich. He needs the space for his six girls and one boy. ED brother BILL a nor Chiyslcr te be JeBseitd hte ­ia Janoaiy. JOE DESAUTZU kad a iiabr bar and, since we had 10 iKhes af mof. Jot tSda't pbqr golf aad bnusht Sue home UnBdf." Wd . Torn, I have woajeiej lAat it woold tike'to keep Joe off the links aitd I guess that'i the li^ l coa^ binatioB: a new baby to briac ka e AlfD 10 inches of snow! Tom's address: SIOS N. Key­stone, InSanapoGs, bd . 
Hoe's soiae news about oar iliaistn A* Buibnaa dropped off: Bra. MEL' KEU. MS 'SS was recently "facnsed" fay the Bntheis of Holy Ctosif Samlk-WtsI Rnitw, Sonth-Wcst Roviace, Austin, Tex. for bis competent, de»oted senite* to the Holy Crass Community, bis years of senice in Catholic edncatioa and his responsible attitudes toward Us wbrfc. BERNARD W. CAUGHEy has been appointed UFI legioaal execntive aad win service U H subscribers in New Englaod. 
ROBERT T. JOHNSON, a quantity sales lep. a Fiigidaire's Dayton sales eone, has been honored as one of the company's top salesmen in the natioa daring the year. His outstanding sales lecoed earned for bim an honorary appointment of ifiiec-. tor in the Frigidaire Goal-Maker Chib, a gnup of top sales leaden in the company's nationwide. wholoale £stributing organization. ROGER O. ZOELLNER has been named depl. n«T. of engi­neering sales in the Trane Co.'s St. Lams sales office. 
BRIAN B. DUFF, Wihnette attorney and ins. exec, is making a determined bid for RepobGcaa nomination as secretary of state. He hopes to bring to the important office a creative adminis­tration bunt upon integrity, intellectual honesty and an insstence upon the full adoption and complete ntilizatioB of modem boaness practices-in govenunent. PANOS D. BARDIS iccently won a prize of 1000 pesetas for bis philolo^cal study entitled BnctUna, lit City of lifit: ^it Etymoh^col Accomat, 
THOMAS E. FOOT writes Oat he and bis bride Sharon recently returned £raa a two-week honeymoon in Hawui and he is cnnently serving as coordinator of corporate community rrlattoas for Ford Motor Co., Dearborn. 
That's it for this issue, gang, and don't foiget: Flan for the Reunion June 7, 8 and 9! 
LEWIS, Palm Beach, Fb., has three boys an4 three gjrb and is being, challenged in the stretch by JIM KINTZ. Ed reports that JIM "VON" STUBBLER has married a beantiful. but appar­ently blind, Irish lass. 
BILL GUILFOILE, stiO with the NY Yankees, has three little ones and occanmaDy sees PHIL BOLIN and JOE IMBRIACO. AL BRANI-GAN's recent yeUow card is an article all by itself so I'll save it for next time. Hovr about some of yon old timers dropping me a short note on the yellow cards enclosed next to p^e 30? 
Look ahead—to September, '68. reunion party,' June '69 IS-ycar Reunion and f^ 1970 ND-Missouri in St. Louis and party at my bouse. See ya! 
From the Ahiinni Office come these tidbits: JOHN PHIUP SONTAG received bn PhD at Harvard at the June commencement. THOBfAS 
J. NESSINGER has been aihnitted to partnership in the firm of Arthur Andersen ft Co., account­ants and auditors, in Chicago. 
EDWARD REYNOLDS BYRNE recoved bn PhD in system science from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn at the June 15 commencement. SrJ MARION HOSINSKI SSM, a comiselor-educatar at St. Louis U., opened a three-week vocational guidance workshop at SMC sponsored by the college and the South Bend Caamnmty School Corp. 
MICHAEL A. CALIANDRO bas been ap­pointed vice-ptes. for public lefaitions of the Better Buaness Bureau of Chicago. EDWARD JUUUS TRUSELA earned his master's in pidilie administration at Harvard m June. 
KEN IfcKAY, wile Nancy and three cbildics^ Kenny, Kathleen and Kevin, now live at 128 Drumgeely Hill, Shannon, County dare, Irtlaad, 
. where Ken is mgr. of engineering for GE's transistor operation thae. JOHN M. BIERBUSSE bas beea promoted to contioiler-sccretary of the Ameiicaa Seating Co. sobsifaty, E. H. Sbebloa ft Co. 
Bra. CHARLES KRUPP CSC was leeendy ap­pointed to' the nravindal Cooacil as Jiiecior .of personnel of the Bratbers of Holy Cms, Midwest -Ftavince. LEROY BAZANY bas been appoiaitrf ~ treas. of American Photocopy Equipment Cou^-^. EDWARD REYNOLDS BYRNE earned bis FbD in systems science at FolytecbBic fmtitnta a( Brooklyn this year. 
 FULLMER teaching at Villanox-a. Want to thank JOE DICK LOFGREN (342 N. Siena Ave,, Solano 1922 LARKDALE DR. HEGNER, NED RYAN, JOHN WEITHERS, Beach, Calif.) checked in after reading that 
GLENVIEW, ILL. 60025 TOM IGLESKI. JOE KEARNEY, TIM DEV-JOHN MANNIX wanted to know if he were 
1935 PAUL 

Our Class cocktail party is a good-luck charm for 
the Fighting Irish (well, that win over MSU was 
sweet), so we're going to put the whammy on 
Purdue this year, and they deserve it after \%"hat 
they did to us last year. The date is Sept. 28. 
The place—the Shamrock Room in the basement 

of the Morris Inn. Sec >*ou there, one and all! 
JOE COX.VOLLY missed last year's party, but Susan noted on their Christmas card that they made the USC game with son, Tim. Hope you're on board for the Purdue game this year, Joe. My old journalism buddy now is asst. corp. public relations man for Picfcands Mathers in Cleveland. The Connoll>-s report that "all is well' wth J.ACK REED and family, a recent Cleveland visitor. Also enjoyed cards from JERRY HUGHES, BILL McL.\IN" (new address is 391 Xfahoning Ave. NW, Warren, Ohio), JOHN O'MEARA (whose Penny presented him with Patrick on June 11), AL COWLES and Rev. JOE O'DONNELL, who is resident retreat master at the Fatima Retreat House On Campus. 
PAUL RAUHNAR, our classmate in India ^vho has been Iiaving his problems being in the middle of a civil war, sent a beautiful Christmas card and then followed with a long letter: "Each day brings a new problem for us here. We hardly have enough cash to purchase rice for the home­less people who have fled the Mizo hills." Paul adds that it only takes $8 to feed a child for a month. Vou can send cliecks for the Alizo Citi­zens Committee to Paul at the Ave Afaria Cot­tage, Madanryting, Happy Valley, Shillong 7, Assam, India. He thanks TOM KERN.AN, BOB McCORMICK, BOB CAFFARELLI, BOB MOORE, S.ARS FORD and BILL CLUSSERATH who already have helped. 
Enjoyed receiving a card from the cx-propri­etor of this column, TOM O'ALALLEY. JIM BERGQUIST dropped in while passing through Chicago during the holidaj-s. He's still 
Congrats 

John P. Molitor '49, resident manager of Walston & Co. Inc's Fort Wa>-ne of­fice, has been elected a vice-president of the nationwide investment firm. Wal­ston & Co. ser\'es investors through more than 100 offices coast to coast and overseas. Following graduation Molitor owned and operated a hardware store in Kendallville, Ind. until 1964 when he joined Walston as an account exec­utive. 
Henry J. Balling Jr '52 has been ap­pointed a vice-president of the National Catholic Laymen's Retreat Conference which headquarters in Covington, Ky. He will cover the northeast region (all of New York and parts of Connecticut and Ohio) representing the 20 retreat houses at national meetings, assisting in retreat promotions and coordinating the retreat movement. 
EREUX, STEVE REBORA. MIKE WARD, JIM GRIFFIN and JACK FLYNN for their cards. 
&IIKE KELLY'S fashion consultant wife, Trudy, got in under the %vire with a December tax deduction, their third boy. The editor of the Chicago Daily News devoted his column to the impact of a FRANK ALAIER human interest story on the SaK'ation Army's Christmas kettle drive. It seems the drive was far short of its goal until a front-page story by the *TroU" got things moving and pushed the drive over the top. My brother ran into TOM DORWIN in Boston, where he was appearing at the boat show, **Humphrey" still is pushing water skiing. JOE SASSANO, one of the country's busiest and best high-school football coaches, followed up his holi­day by appearing at a grid clinic with two coaches who have done fairly well in recent yeaxs 
— Bud Wilkinson and Johnny Pont. Oops, almost forgot to thank FRANK LOLLI and JOE DALEY for their cards. 
Letter of the cycle award goes to Dr. ERNEY MAHER (10 Seminole Ave., Catonsville, Md.), a pediatrician who has four of his own. Emey graduated from tlie Georgctou-n Afed. School and then went to the U. of Alarjiand Hosp. for pediatric residency. His inspiration to write was a missed long-distancc call from BERNIE SMYTH (whose last reported address is 10818 SE ISth, Bcllc\'uc, Wash.). He also Av'anted information on DAVE COHEN, who is Mth an anti-poverty agency here in Chicago. Emey is betting on LARRY "MOON" MULLIXS to be a buhc^ soon. He also ran into JACK BLESSINGTON, BILL CANNING'S roomie in St. Ed's, at the Afontf^ssori school in Greenwich, Conn., where Jack is headmaster. '*Jack greeted us at his school with a straw hat, moustache, budket and mop. For those who remember him, he's still the same old nut." Jack and family (three kids) live at 3 Arnold St., Old Greenwich. 
I ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
John F. Cox '53 ^ worling with the National Education Association's bud­get director and writing speeches and articles for NEA o£Scers in his new po­sition of special assistant to NEA's exec­utive secretary. He has been on the staff of the national teachers' organization since 1959 and during the past year has been working on special assignments concerned with urban problems. 
Affred C DeCrane Jr '53, who has 
been assistant to the chairman of the board, has been named general manager of Texaco's Producing Department, Eastern Hemisphere. He joined Tex­aco's legal department in 1959 and, after service in Washington, Houston and New York, was assigned to the company's executive ofiSces in NYC in 1965. 
dead or alive. Dick's leading the good life on the beach while teaching. During a recent tour the Lofgrens stopped at ND. Also enjoyed brief visits with CHARLIE POLLNOW, JOE M o GLYNN and DON FREUND. 
BILL STAHL and his wife Virginia wrote in their holiday letter that their two-and-a-half­pound **wonder" now is a year old and progress­ing rapidly. Bill spent three weeks in Liberia and the Congo inspecting our military assistance misuons. 
JOE BAUXHE (2313 Terrace Dr., Copperas Cove, Tex.), will you please give my best to a great priest in your town. Rev. JAAIES DON­NELLY CSC? I should have known that Dr. DICK REAMER wouldn't stay put here for very long. He's back in Europe—Radeckgasse 7, Apt. 26, A1040, Vienna, Austria. GENE LESMEZ has a new address—^Apardado Aereo 8587, Bogota, Colombia. Our condolences to PAUL DULLER on the death of his mother. A memorial Kfass was said by Rev. FERDINAND BROWN CSC, our former rector in Walsh, Feb. 3. 
Almost forgot the long holiday letter from the PAT DiPASQUALES. In March Pat delivered a paper at the Afidwest Medieval Conference m Kalamazoo. Pat wanted the address of CHUCK DOHERTY (1235 N. Oak Park Ave., Oak Park, 
Bl.). 
Class Agent GEORGE SHELTON is beating the drums for another Notre Damcr, BRIAN DUFF, for secretary of state in Illinois. He'll welcome the support of all dassnutes in Illinois. Incidentally, how many of you troops hold elected otScc? WiveSf let me hear from you with the specifics. Organization '55, the Chicago clan, will hold its next meeting May 21. 
Don't forget to order tickets for the Purdue game and attend the cocktail party afterwards. Before you forget it, fill out the yellow card on page 30 In this issue and drop it in the maiL 

Richard B. Hohman '54 « one of the 
top dogs in the hamburger business. He was appointed operations manager of Interstate Restaurant Systems Inc. of Youngstown, Ohio which operates 17 Red Bam restaurants in Ohio, Pennsyl­vania and New York and two Howard Johnson restaurants and the Hub res­taurants in Youngstown. Hohman left his post as operation manager for Mc­Donald's midwest region to join Inter­state which was recently acquired by Servomation Corp. The Hohman fam­ily of ten is now living at 280 Upland Ave., Youngstown. 
Richard J. Connelly '55 has been 
named director of public relations for ABC News. During his two years with ABC News, he had served as manager of press relations, coordinating the pub­licity and promotion campaigns for news and documentary programs. Be­fore that he was manager of press rela­tions for Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. in New York, was a reporter in Memphis and press writer for NBC. 
•g A r A EUGENE O'CONNOR I U'ln COSGROVE & O'CONNOR 
J . W W If 636 ELLICOTT SQ. BLDG. BUFFALO. N.Y. 14203 
DONALD D. CARMELITE has joined the Pet­roleum Chemical Additives Lab. in Rohm and Haas company's research div. Dr. Carmelite will be at the Philadelphia Research Laboratories and will be concerned with synthesis studies. He malies his home at 319 Clinton St., PhiUdelphia. 
ALEX A. PESTRICHELLA is pbying an impor­tant role in one of our nation's most successful space efforts, the Vela Nuclear Detection Sat­ellite Program. 
ROLAND BERNHOLD of the M. C. Bemhold Agency, Sidney, Ohio has been aiv:irded the desig­nation of Charter Life Under^\Tite^ by the American College of Life Underwriters. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME SWEENEY have a 

new son bom Oct. 7 in Salem, Mass. PAUL 
KEARNEY has left Arlington Heights, HI. for 
Fort Hou-ard Paper Co. in Green Bay, Wis. 
DON "TODD" TADROWSKI is opening a second Tie Bar shop in a gigantic west suburban shopping center in Chicago. 
Received a nice note from BILL STOTZER in December. He advises that DENNY POWERS, father of four, has his own insurance agency spe­cializing in aviation insurance. DENNY BERRY who, along with Bill and Denny Powers re­sides in Peoria, 111., is a sales mgr. for a local firm and JIM TEDFORD is with Caterpillar Tractor, largest employer in Illinois. AMIEL RASCHID, an internist in the Peoria arra, just left for a tour of duty with the armed forces. 
Bin tells me that LARRY WAHL has married a girl from Ireland; they have two children and live in the San Francisco area. Another Illinois resident, PAUL KAMSCHULTE, has his own CPA firm in Waukcgan. PAUL BERRETINI is the Budweiser Beer distributor in Dixon, 111. and HANK DDCON is State's Attorney in Lee county. It was Hank who introduced Bill to his wife 
1957 
GEORGE W. GROBLE 
111 WEST WASHINGTON ST. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 

First order of business is to ask all of our loyal readers and suppliers to use the yellow postcards on page 30 in this issue to refill ray news rcser\'oir. 
Over the Christmas holidays, I had an enjoyable visit with DAVE DAVIN, a famous Chicagoan gone west. Dave is with McDonnell-Douglas Air­craft and lives in Costa Mesa, Cal. Dave and wife Judy have two boys on their club. Dave is working on space tcchnolog>- at present and works up GOP support for Gov. Reagan. He wants to hear from TOM CUXNLXGHAM for some reflec­tion on the "good old da>-s" on Carticr Field. Another spaceman, TOM AIARIANI, reports that spacegirl number three has been added to his galaxy in October, Tom evidently finds time from NASA for other activities. The nwct "space pro­gram" he embarks upon may be an addition to his home. Speaking of additions, TOM 0*BRYAN and Maureen have just put the village of Oak Park back in its old place as the nation's largest vilbge by adding a son, Robert, in December. Tom joins our elite with number seven. Does anyone have more than seven? DON LEONE, maybe? 
The NESS group has been dealt a crippling blow by the removal of djuamic vicc-prcs. BILL KIGALI. He has fled back to the Chicago area. Before this untimely event. Bill reported that a strong rumor vios about that PETE NOZNESKY was to wed one Sally Ann in November. Also there was a rain-swept picnic in September and the brave ones were there including GERRY BECKERT, JACK CASEY, JOHN McMEIL, MARK MALEY, JOHN WALSH, FRANK AT­
1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
102 "I" ST. 
LAPORTE, IND. 46350 

The news for this issue is somewhat scant. How­ever, we hope this will be remedied through the use of the yellow postcard included at page 30 in this issue of the ALUMNUS. 
May we begin by offering our condolence to JOHN MILLER on the passing of his mother, Margaret S. Miller, Dec. 28, 1967, according to news received from the Alumni Office. Our 
AlUMNUS MARCH 79(58 APRIL 
Barbara. The Stotzers have three children and 
Bill is a building mfg. rep. in III. 
From Schenectady, NY JOHN SOWA, an asst. prof, of chemistry at Union col., writes that BILL HAUSER is with Rohm and Haas in Philadelphia. JERRY KOFRON, teaching at Akron U., received a petroleum research grant from ACS. GERRY LaPYRE is in Bozeman, Mont, in Montana'3 physics dept. 
TOM CLAUSSEN writes he is currently chief reliability engineer with United Technology Center Div. of VAC and is attending U. of Santa Clara for an AIBA. Tom and his wife Linda now have three daughters. 
MORE '36 NEIVS 

In fond hopes that your Class secretary hasn't made this Feb. 14 deadline, on vnth the memo­rabilia that found its way to the Manion home. Christmas cards and notes came with such sig­natures as GEORGE WILSON (Highland, Ind.); CARL EIGELSB.ACH (Chicago); Kathryn and JIM MASSEY (acting Head of ND's EE dept.); GORDON DiRENZO (who announced early sum­mer wedding plans including Alary Kathleen Ryan and the publication of two recent books by the ND Press and Random House), and Carol and DENNIS BERRY (sales mgr. for Nelson Mfg. in Peoria who also suffered through the ND-Illinois basketball game at the Chicago Stadium in late January). 
Then there were the photo-cards. In living, loving color Evelyn and DON WALZ portrayed twt) gorgeous blonde children (one each) with the note from Indianapolis that Don had assured SUMMA success by referring Vice-Pres. JIM FRICK to JOHN ENGLER and PHIL CENE­DELLA. Mary and MALCOMB "BILL" BUR­NETT proudly presented four little Irishmen from their Northbrook, 111. home. A Chicago "loop" attorney, Mai was presented a pretty girl deduc­tion on New Year's Eve—that makes five little ones! Four handsome young lads and three pretty hsses graced the card from the JOHN "SKINNY" 
KINSON, JULES AUGSDORFER, EDDIE DEAN and BOB LONCHARICH. 
NESS agent JIM "FLASH" ROWLANDS re­ports out of Allentown that ED SOBOLEWSKI is practicing law in Newark, Del. Ed is married with one daughter and is still playing a mean game of tennis. ERC SPINOSA and wife Pat have recently evened out their family to four by adding their second daughter. Ere is heading the DC Spinosa Construction Co. as a sideline and his main activity is knocking off Jim Row­lands in those bridge matches. Maj. BURT LESH has returned from Vietnam and is an asst. prof, in military history at Lafayette Col. The Leshes have two bo)"S. 
The "FL.ASH" ROWLANDS are parents, a boy and girl, and Jim is with Western Electric. Jim wants to hear from his old roomie, ANDY SCHILLY, and so do wc. 
FRANK ATKINSON also reports on that ill-fated NY picnic and complains that ED DEAN still wants to be qb in the touch game and that JERRY BECHART was making deals to look good for his kids. No one cooperated. I under­stand a second annual is planned for next fall with a greater turnout hoped for. The next time the kids have agreed to let the dads win. 
TOM JACOBS reports in that he missed our Reunion because of a transfer to Chester, Va., ^vhere he is with the fibers div. of Allied Chem. as Polynec production super. Tom heard from Afaj. FRED BELL, now at Ft. Lewis, Wash., married and two children. Maj. JIM FLUHR completed his flying duties in Vietnam and now, with wife and two kiddies, is at Holmstead AFB, Fla. 
GEORGE STRAKE JR has joined in the for­
sympathy also to Bro. THO.MAS KING CSC on the death of his mother Jan. 19. Your prayers will be appreciated. Brother Thomas is teaching commercial courses at Holy Trinity HS, 1443 W. Division St., Chicago 60622. He reports also that he recently heard from FRED GENOVESE, ROGER G. RYAN and CLAUDE HEATH. 
Among those from whom your secretary heard during the recent holiday season were JOHN RUSSO, 39 Avon Circle, Port Chester, NY 10573; JOHN SENG, 6508 Glenwood Ave., Chi­cago 60626; DAVID HOLTHOUSE. 2101 Rock-
BRODERICKs of Flossmoor, TO. (Did anyone 
hear from JERRY and Mary SWEENEY?) 
And in glorious integrated color came the card from Danville, HL showing three boy and three girl chorallers comprising the Cathy and TO M BOTT family. Tom was concerned over the int-probability of Barry replacing LBJ. And in Rock Springs, Wyo. there are also six robust, good-looking children that are all Mary Jo and TOM KERSHISNIK. Ole Dad is enjoying every min­ute as Cubmaster. Hoping for "Peace on Earth" before the Holy Family scene were the three off­spring of Shirley and DON LOGAR &om Euclid, Ohio. 
Chaplain at Bridewell Vsison, missionary on Chicago's Bladison street, organizer of an area community organization, religion teacher at Corpus Christi HS — aU describe Rev. MIKE MOONEY. He'd really appreciate your prayers—food, cloth­ing and funds, too—to 124 S. Loomis Blvd., Clii­cago 60607. 
Jan. 18 was panic day for JOHN P. DEASY. noted life insurance consultant with Equitable in Chicago. John had the frustrating experience of having scheduled the '56 quarterly dinner at Johnny Lattner's Steak House which was totally destroyed by fire a week before (but after an­noimcements were mailed). Swift action and 102­plus phone calls later, we all met at the Wrigley Restaurant for the usual. New faces at this frivolous affair included JOHN W. CORBETT (Winfield, ni.), JOSEPH "BUD" BECHTOLD (of Wihnette, III. and Reuben H. Donnelley), CHARLIE PENNA (Chicago Loop stockbroker now living in Chicago Heights, III.), Deerfield's LUKE J. BRENN and Glen Ellyn's EUGENE 
F. BRENNAN JR (both giving Chariie Penna static on "best buys"). Old faithful faces in­cluded: MAL BURNETT, JIM FINNEG.AN, Jerry Gatto, JACK CASEY, Carl Eigelsbach, JOHN FANNON, PAUL NOLAND, TOM MULLARKEY, BOB SALVINO, BOB CAR­RANE, WEBB SEXTON, Deasy and iLANION. 
—JOHN MANION 

mation of Romac Corp. in Denver to conduct oil, gas and mineral explorations in the Rocky Mt. area. 
TERRY KILBRIDE reports out of Detroit and claims he spent a weekend in Chicago with his wife Barbara and didn't call me. He must have heard that Vm always looking for an excuse for visitors to our fair dty to buy the drinks and meal. I always lose my credit card. Terry had a visit with DAVE KLOCKE and bis ^rife Jan recently. Dave lives in Ft. Thomas, Ky. and is with I^tKter & Gamble. 
Rev. JOHN J. DUNNIGAN has left his parish in NY for the urban slums of Korea where he is working with the newly formed Vatican II International Mission Society. MATT TUTINO reports from Kfahopac, NY. The Tutinos have six children and Matt holds a managerial post with Western Union. 
Old Fres. JOHN McMEEL finally reported in— where have you been? John reports &tARK AfALEY is back in St. Louis with Alonsato and that Pat and JOHN HAMMETT are in Queens, NY. John is the proud father of twins. John proposes a football game reunion and I propose Sept. 28 which is the Purdue game. How about it? Keep this one open and we'll work on it through the ALUMNVS. 
A final decision on the game for a fall reunion win be made after the NCAA TV schedule is set for the season. Wc won't have the reunion at a game that will be televised. Announcement vnH be made in the next Class column so tickets can be ordered in June. 
We saw BILL GEItARD riding around the Chicago area recently with 1968 Illinois License Plate ND 57. Some puU. 
le<^e Dr., RocUedge, Fla. 23955; and HENRY ZANG, Champaign, 111. 
Dave Holthouse reports a recent get-together with the family of JOE KNOTT in Ft. Laudef dale. Henry Zang reports meeting TO M GOZDECKI, TOM WOLOHAN and JACK REVORD last fall in Champaign on the occasion of the Illinois football game. Henry is with Massachusetts MutuaL Tom Gozdeda is with Calumet National Banle in Indiana. 
TOM CLUSSERATHS dropped a line from 12821 Chesney Lane, Bowie, Md. 20715. Among 
the items reported was the arrival of the Qus­seraths' second daughter Feb. I, 1967. 
JOE DEZELAN, 5619 N. Enright Dr., Indianap­olis 46208, is the controller, assistant trcas., of Von Duprin Inc., a leading manufacturer of door hardHdre. He is also treas. of Von Duprin Ltd., a Canadian subsidiazy in Chambly, Quebec. Joe is married to the former ^fary Ellen Rcidy, a graduate of St. Vincent's School of Nurnng, Indianapolis. The Dezelans have two children. 
A card from DAVID F. BUCKLEY, 9 Henry St., BcUows Falls, Vt., reports the arrival of his second child, a son, Jan. 12. David opened a law office April 1, 1967. 
BILL HOHMANN, 6342 Munhall Ct, McLean, Va. 22101 reports the arri\-al of his fourth child in September and a recent transfer to the Pentagon where he is attached in the organization of the joint chiek of staff. Bill now holds the rank of Lt. Cmdr. BiU reports Maj. GARY COOPER is CO, A Co Hq Bn, Hq USMC. Lt. Cmdr. JIKI KALLAL is stationed at Ne^^-port, RI with the cruiser destroyer Atlantic 
1959 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 
2680 LEHMAN RD., APT. 42 CINCINNATI. OHIO 452M 
MIKE MORANDO has been decorated with the Distinguished Filing Cross at Sembach AB, Ger­many for heroism in military operations in South­east Asia. Capt. Morando received the medal for meritorious achievement in aerial flight as a C-123 Pkovidcr aircraft commander. He completed seven passes over the drop zone to succcssMIy deliver ritally needed ammunition and food to forces near Ben Cat, Vietnam in spite of intense hostile ground fire which severely damaged his aircraft. 
FRANK L. FREIDHOFF has been graduated with honors from the Air Squadron Officer School at &&xweU AFB, Ala. Frank was especially selected lor the course in recognition of his potential as a leader-in the aerospace force. BILL BAULT spent a holiday leave \wih his parents in Villanova, Pa. He is being sent to SJcira Leone which makes him fcappy since West Africa is his first love. 
Dr. ERNEST A. FOTTA has completed his Tesidency in internal medicine and is now studying cardiology at Meyer Mem. Hosp. in Buffalo. Ernie and wife Pat hear from "BIFF" MARETTI occa­sionally. Biff is working for the Dcpt. of the Army at the Pentagon and is Uring in Maryland. Rev. JAMES BURTCHAELL reports that NORM ODYNIEC is now the chief resident surgeon at Kfayo Clinic. The latest from El Salvador about JORGE ZABLAH is that he is working hard in the family store, playing polo and worrying with four children. DAVID SCHWARTZ recenUy re­ceived his MA at Ohio State. 
JOHN DELLA VILLA would Kke to thank his many friends for their gracious sympathies on the death of his wife Elaine (Sept. 23, 1967). John is living in Rochester, NY at 2460 Oakview Dr. 
H. CRANE DAY is teaching part-time in the art 
1960 
THOMAS J. O'CONNELL 
3350 EVERETT RD. LAKE FOREST, ILL. 60045 
Now that Fm able to ivalk again .. . it wasn't all my fault. While maneuvering gracefully—^would you believe snowplowing?—down Aspen Mt. (name dropper), these red stretch pants went' by, see, and my skis wound up in the trees. Unfortunately, I was still in them. 
Enow, enow of that bull-ony. We must mention that J.C. is not all politician. As a matter of fact, he is alive and sUing in the Rockies. JOHN "MOHAMMED" CARRETTA sends "HaUoo" from the Mt. Taking time off from running Arlington, Va. and its DC suburb, John phones in between flights but has no time for a sip. RICHVALSKY and DILLING and some others don't even call when they're in town. No more bee soda at O'Connell's! 
To open spring, here are a few doings from DON MCALLISTER, Capt. USAF, MC. ".. . my wife Roseann, who is also a doctor, and I have a daughter Maureen and one due in April. Have finished a yiear of general surgical residency and plan to go into orthopedics. AF life isn't really that bad—have managed trips to Puerto Rico and Japan in just four months of duty. Dr. JACK LANG is to be married May 12. Miss Sharon Bamer, a real sweetie, a nunc at King's Co. Hosp., is the lass. Jack is also going into ortho surgery." 
J. A. DANIELS, 2719 Summerfield Rd.. Winter Park, Fla. 32789, announces the arrival of hti eighth child and fifth daughter Dec 29, 1967. He is district sales mgr. with Booms Inc., Trimpot div., of Riverside, Calif. 
RICHARD M. RIEGEL is now mth the DepL of Interior. He married Virginia M. Doyle la 
JUNE 7'8'9 
August and they are making their borne in Alexandria, Va. 
JOHN E. AfAGUIRE has joined A. H. Robittt Co. as a medical service rep. He has been asagned to the company's northwestern div. and will be working in the Idaho Falls, Idaho area. 
dept> of San Franrisco State and is doing free-lance design and some weaving for two commercial re­tail outlets in SF. Crane sent a beautiful Christmas card this ycaT^ an enlargement of the card which he designed for National Aid to Visually Handicapped. VrrO NIGRELLI is engaged to Vera Louise Victoria of Chicago, a '62 Purdue grad (after two years at SMC). Vito is living in the Windy Citf at 423 W. Belden. TOM a\HILX can be found (most of the time) at 1025 Lombard St. Apt 5, San Francisco. 
DAVID JAMES married Scnorita Lucia Maria 
Gonzalez in 1960. They met at Incarnate Word 
Col. San Antonio in '59 when the ND Band was on 
concert tour. Dave has hts LLB from Cliicago and 
is currently in Alexandria. Va. pratidng law for 
the Navy (Naval Air S>stcm5 Command in DC.). 
The James family includes David HI (6), Luda 
Maria (5) and Louis Adolfo (2). Dave also reports 
he has seen JOE DASCHBACH recently. 

TOM SHINE took an MBA at Wharton in '61 and was in Baltimore for six years. He and Bemadette were married in '62 and have two sons. Tom just joined Balduin-Ehret-Hilt Inc. in Tren­ton, NJ as a general mgr. of a national product group and is living in Belle Mead, NJ. Tom says DAVE GERTH, wife and child are in Riilly and that the Shines talked to MADDEN SHEEDY in DC. ED McGEE was recently reassigned to the Chi-town office of Standard Oil where he is raper-vising a group of computer prognunmers. Number Two son Kevin %vas bom Sept. 7, 1967. Ed tells us that ^OKE TRESSEL and family have moved to NYC for tWb years while on special assignment for Sinclair and that TONY MACIOCE had been hospitalized in Detroit but is OK after a long and serious illness. 
JACK BEARD writes he enjoyed TERRY LAMB's comments in a recent issue. The Beards are otpecting number five and now have two boys 
"Prosperous, solid, stout lawyer PHIL O'REIL­

LY is expecting a baby Goodyear blimp atound 
now. DICK M. (Mad about Midwest) CROOKS 
is rumored to be adjusting his tliinlttng about 

that area!" 
Mrs. Roberta TURNER who is related to one 

LAWRENCE in some way, has moved oat. She 
says that it was too much to take. F^cUng Lany 
HI, Mitch and Anne Kelly and their bdongings, 

she left Villanova, Pa. for the warmer dimate of 
Strafford, Pa. Deserting a three-bedroom garage 
apt. on a 40>acre estate for a four-bedroom bouse 
on a small lot was not easy. But the difficult 
decision was met with decisiveness. What lies ahead 
for Roberta and the children? What will tomorrow 
bring? Maybe Larry arrives with the moving van? 
Will she be able to decide if the pink couch goes 
here, there or . . . • • ? Don't mis the »eit 
moving chapter .. . 
Meanwhile, back to the letter . . . "Lany it still with Dcckert, Price and Rhoads in PhiL WHth luck he should become a partner in a few years. We missed TED McCOURTNEY's wedding due to atter problems, but did get to DICK PAGEN*S last spring." 
It may be old but it's still new .. . Ted recently received his MBA with distinction fem Harvard. He is one of only 58 to have adiieved such academic standing. Congrats! 
De woid from Deetroit ". . . practidng' in oty and living in Birmingham with- Dcnise (Trinity '£!) and Tim (2) and JoUe (1). After iCdu 
BOB FURGESON recently was in Chicago on a bosioess trip. Bob and Maureen have two children and are living in Sloatsbuig, NY. M. J. CON­NORS was married in December, 1966 to the fbimer Gail LeVor of W. Lafayette. 
Maj. DAN BERGEN USMC is stationed m Vietnam. His address is Hq 2-12, 3rd Marine Div. FFO, San Francisco. Calif. 96602. 
Marine Maj. GEORGE D. NAVADEL (Saa Diego, Calif.), who b a Corps rep. and instruc­tor at Ft. Benning, Ga., was given the silver star and dted for ^'conspicuous gallantry and intrepid­ity in action" at Ft. Benning, Ga. He led his company to reinforce another unit which was pinned dowti by intense enemy automatic weapons, small aims and mortar fire and had sustained numerous casualties in Vietnam. After two hours of intense fighting, the rescued Marine unit was able to evacuate their wounded and break contact with the enemy. 
Before closing, please note that our fall football reunion has been tentatively scheduled for Sept. 28 ftJlowing the Purdue game. 

and two girls so the addition will be the tie-breaker. Jack has been promoted at Brunswick Corp. to tax mgr. of planning and research. DENNY LEO is territory supenisor for Yegen Associates Midwest Inc., according to his wife Kaye. The Leos are in Ixigansport, Ind. (902 Hawthorne Lane) with John 
(3) and Maggie (1). (Incidently, Kaye sent this info via the yellow card found occasionally in this publication and found in this issue on page 30.) 
ART DiSABATINO is firing in Wihnington, Del. and is with the law firm of Killoran and Van Brunt. He is public defender of New Castle County, presdent of the Wilmington Jaycees, married and has tu-o children. CARL EDMUNDSON has an insurance agency in San Jose, Calif, and, according to well-founded rumors, is quite successful. JIM DOYLE is also in San Jose and he and Carl are idaying basketball for the Old Matt*s Club (a beer joint) when Carl's leg isn't in a cast from his skiing excursions on the slopes of Heavenly Valley. Cad is still single and still looking as is ADRIAN DOYLE. Adrian is in SF and visits Carl on trips to San Jose for the communications co. of which Adrian is part owner. 
JIM JOCK owns a small franchised accounting and consulting firm in Ft. Wayne. Jim and wife Geoigianne have a son and two daughteis and Jim has just completed a master's in psychology. As co-captain of the N D fencing team our senior year, Jim would like to hear from and about members of that team. Jim did visit with TED BARES in the summers of '65 and '66 in Salt Lake City. 
Finally, travel agencies throughout the US and Europe are accepting reservations for the Class of '59 football reunion after the Purdue game Sept. 28 and for the ten-year Reunion in June, 1969. Flan now, drde calendars, inform companies, gently explain to wives I I I (LARRY WENTZ — please note last item!) 
law school '63, I received a Ford Foundation 
•cbolanhip to the London School of Economics. Spent a year there and travelled the continent extensively, running into several N D classmates. I see SCANLAN, CONDIT, GADE, MONAHAN, CONROY, KEATING, et c often at Club func­tions. I even got together at long last with DICK BENKENDORF in Chi. after the So. Cal. game. Great Town!! Love your column—keep it up. (Sec note: Me too! But on its friends, the wake depends. Help! Help!) PAT MARTIN." 
Okay, McCAREY, so it's spring already! So Where's the bouquet of information? Hey, Mrs. Mac^ how about lighting a bunsen burner under hit thermo deagn behind! That goes for SPITZER, WAITER, WURSTA, WOOD, etc. and Joe and Liz xa Cedar Rapids! Like the old pro says, "Get on the track, or offa da Geld!" Ooh! 
Bemrmbcr those oldies but goodies like . . . BOB NICOLAZZI, tractor timing mgr. (they race?). Fold Tractor Operations of Foxd, after serving as the operations procurement planning supr. Hmm, wonder if they need any drivers for the Cornfield "500"! Ruth, two kids and AF Capt. SAUL CARROLL are attending the Air U's Squad. Off. Sch. at Maxwell AFB. Actually, he's IB tdiool; die other three are just hanging around. 
Building with BILL THRALL of Hombeck, Steenwyk-Thiall Inc is a rewarding experience. He supervised the renovation of Grand Rapids' St. Stephen's Church. The work received an award IB the arch, competition of the '66 Nat'L Lit. 
Congrats I ALUMNI IN THE NEWS 
USAF Mai. Thomas A. O'Hara Jr. 
'55 has been presented the Air Medal for outstanding service in Vietnam. A veteran of 100 combat missions over North Vietnam, he has now completed his tour of duty in Southeast Asia. He was cited for his outstanding airman­ship and courage on successful and im~ portant missions under hazardous condi­tions while serxnng as an EB.66 De­stroyer pilot at Takhli Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. He has been reassigned to Columbus AFB, Miss. 
Robert L. McGoldrick '56 has been 
appointed senior account executive at the Hartford group ofiSce of Con­necticut General Life Insurance Co. In his new position he is responsible for the sales and service of key group accounts. McGoldrick is also active in the St. Francis Hospital drive in Hart­ford, Conn. 
Oiester A. Mitchell '57. manager of 
product planning for hospital products of Motorola's communications division, has been promoted to manager of marketing. He is now responsible for all marketing functions of the hospital line and also coordinates Motorola's activities in the health care field with the American Hospital Assoc, Catholic Hospital Assoc, and other professional health care associations. He and his wife and five children live in Hoffman Estates, a Chicago suburb. 
James F. Weber "57 shared honors with two other staff members of the Akron (Ohio) Beacon Journal when the newspaper was given a citation by the Associated Press Managing Editors Association. The avtrard was for a series 
Conf. (see, these are old!) Prease, WILLIAM J. CLANCY JR, you rilie nice tlansrator for new job as mark. asst. in Asia and the Middle East for Baxter Int'l (Whoosh! I wouldn't work those territories for half the profits! They make their calls in tanks!) 
Chop Suey! Fr. PATOUT says Easter Mass for the Class. Colleen and JOE DORRYCOTT added Iklauia to Joey, Megan and Westinghouse. WILKES' have stopped but they caught the lead­ers. Number five, Gerry Jr, fills the house. G. Leo says send advice or a trailer. DAN MAC­DONALD and Martha of Sun Chemical and Lombard, HI. were the only Domera at a recent stadium B-Ball contest. We lost! 
Tip of the derby to PETE HASBROOK. He added Christopher to Pete and Ann and quit his job. ". . . now with the Mich. Cath. ConL, trying to save my soul after prostituting myself for filthy money and XYZ for all of my mature life." Wonder how many of us could even say that, much more act. Hi, Barb. 
Holing Out . . . Some of today's most imagina­tive fiction 15 seen on income tax forms. Oops, what's today's date? Not all bunnies are little, white and cotton tailed. Right, Hugh? Re­imion—on a clear day in September or October— keep tuned. Go to UND Night and support a friend or he you! This is the green hangover ^ying—^Do Widzenia. 
ALUMNUS MARCH }9iB APRIL 
of stories which showed how Ohio counties spent taxpayers' money without competitive contract bidding. Weber also covered six of the 29 major strikes in the US last year and was never scooped by other papers. He was re­cently named development writer so he is now doing the announcing, pushing and promoting on all new indiutrial and building development in a five-county area. He also covers the All-American Soap Box Derby. 
Nicholas P. Bartolini '58 has been named overseas program manager of Ford Motor Company's Central Product Planning Office. He joined Ford in 1962 as general parts division financial analyst and has been with the Central Product Planning Office since 1966. Before that he served with the former international staff and with the over­seas distribution operation and Ford Division. He and his wife and two children live in Westland, Mich. 
Rev. John Murray '59 wM he or^ dained a priest May 2. His first Mass will be May 12 at St. Hilary Church, 5600 N. California Ave., Chicago, at 2 p.m. His present address is Sacred Orders Building, St. Mary of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, 111. 60060. 

David M. Kennedy '63 has been ap­pointed director of programs and sales for Trans-World Enterprises Inc. and will head a new office in NYC. The company produces TV sports programs and closed circuit sports broadcasts in the US, England and Japan. Kennedy had been coordinator of sports for NBC for the last five years and produced several sports specials. 
10AA I AUf JOHN A. DI NARDO 
•yo u U%W 721 HINMAN AVENUE 

EVANSTON, ILLINOIS SBOZ A dearth of news is beginning to plague this column and this is only the third one! To keep this from being a personal diary of my lunch hours wandering around the Chicago Loop, drop a line to the above address or to the ALUMNUS office for that matter. Help launch the career of a budding journalist in your spare time. The yellow card in this issue will make it easy for you. 
How about JOHN BORGERDING, for example? HUGH McGUIRE resurfaced in Detroit on being challenged, and Beloit, Wis. isn't that big, or that far. 
BOB HOUSE, in his annual letter, indicated he is engaged to Donna Lee Snedeker of Babylon, NY. Mary Jane and Hugh McGuire an ex­pecting fairly soon and it will be their first. 
1961 
^VILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 SCRIVO DR. 
WARREN. MICH. 48092 

JOHN LINEHAN was in town to vint us about three weeks ago for the weekend. John was on his way back to Brussels. He is with Sinclair there and seems to be traveling all over Europe. What a way to go! MIKE ESFOSIFO has been elected to membership in the NY chapter of the National Assoc of Accountants. 
JOHN O'LEARY has been graduated from the Air U. Squadron Officer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. He is being reassigned to Scott AFB, SL as 
McGOLOnCK •56 MrrcHEu. •57 Wf^ ^L?"'-0'-"-V' 
1 ^i 
m.
"f^""^ 

•*^.'' ''ir !«A?\r^ b: r ^te?"­
•i^M^"''-^ |j> •pfS 
4.M;­
H 
^^k:^* •ai»-rt­
•' 

..-.. --^ I I ^m
m
i:r 
* * ^ 
wan '57 BAKTOUNI '58 
MUKKAY -59 KENNEDY ' j3 

a security police officer. AF Capt. LEO JAR­OSZEWSKI is also attending Air U. and Capt. JDI CONNOLLY leceived.his niver wings bam the USAF navigator school at Mather AFB, CaBl. 
MKE SAMMON wrote and told me he rcccind his law degree from Loyola and b married to the former Judy Crake (Barat Col.) aid they knre a daughter, Maureen Elizabeth. Mike went into the Army in 1965 as a 1st Lt. and spent a year in Vietnam. He is now working at Cental NitL Bank in Chicago with tbor trust dept. TEUIY SHEA has joined the National ObuTvtr (Silver Springs, Bid.) as a staff writer. Teny and his wife Fat have two children, Kathy and l&nnL TIM HUGHES b editor of H^i<««st Iulmmt£au for PSaum Publishing in Dayton. He and Nancj (SMC '61) have three giris. 
DICK NEELY received hb bw degree bom the 

U. of San Diego Law School. Dick is cmrentlr with the district attorney's office in Saa Oicao. He and hb wife Ellie have two children, Dick Jr, 3, and Deanna, 2. JOHN SNYDER ieceiv<d hit graduate degree from Ohio State in 19G6 ^M|-n now at Mohawk Valley Conun. CoL tearjiing retail busness management. John and ha wife have four boys. He b cnirently heading np CCD classes for gndes 1-12 at St. John the EvangcEst Church in New Hartford, NY. . . 
JOHN BECK recehnd hb LLB in Jnne 'GS bom Georgetown. John and hb wife Carolyh :aiid thnr son and two daughters moved to .V(efaster, NY. He b employed as a patent attomei with Xerox Corp. PAUL CLARKSON xcecivcd 'Us 
MA in Englbh from ND in 1951. He has recently become training coordinator for tlic paper div. of Riegcl Paper Corp. Paul's years after gradua­tion were made up of three years on the English dcpt. faculty of Scton Hall U., So. Orange, NJ, two years vith, the Army in Frankfurt, W. Germany; and several years as training specialist at NY headquarters of Sinclair Oil Co. Paul and his wife Klonica have a daughter, Margaret, and they are now living in Flcmington, NJ. 
CHARLES CAYCE and his ^%•ifc just had their second son, David. Chuck has been living in Irving, To e for the past three years as a sales engineer for the Trane Co. at their Dallas office. Chuck vnints to know the status on his bet with BILL BREGEZINSRL 
DAVE LLOYD is in his second year of private practice of law in Santa Barbara, Calif. Dave married May Burke of SMC'62 and they have two sons. Dave received his law degree from U. of Calif. JOHN CASARINO graduated from Med. School in 1965 and did an internship and one-year residency in pediatrics and switched to psj-chiatry in June, '67. He is now at St. Vincent's Hosp. in NYC and is Ii\-ins in Green­wich VtUage. JOE BARTLETT married Afirian Gallagher of Chicago in August, '67 and they are now living in Santa Afonica, Calif. Joe is on the associate staff as uan electrical engineer for Operations Research Inc. 
JOHN SMITH writes that he served t%vo years' 
 JAAfES KRAUSER 
1760 EAST WEST HIGHWAY 
SILVER SPRING, AID. 20910 
1962 H. 
Those ycUow cards are again -with us—page 30— 
and your cooperation is appreciated. Keep in 
mind that the information you send me won't 
appear for two issues as our deadlines arc always 
two months in advance of each issue. 
Your reporter is convinced by now that the 
greatest source of material for this column comes 
as a result of visitations by members of our Class 
to the nation's capital. AIARK AI.ARQUARDT 
and wife Carol were in this area over Christmas 
visiting Carol's parents. Alark is in the judge 
advocate program and stationed at Chanute AFB, 
ChampaigD-Urbana, III. He has his law degree from 
Duke and plans to return to his native Florida 
after his tour of duty. DICK HUGHES also was 
a visitor over the Yule season. Dick, in from 
Boston, is working for Union Carbide and traveling 
extensively in up-state NY and Nev*' England. 
Spent iL recent Sunday afternoon in the broad­
cast booth at DC Stadium as DON CRIQUI was 
handling the microphone for the New Orleans-
Washington game. Don is the sports director for 
a NYC TV station and docs the Saints games on 
weekends. BARRY MAHER was a frequent visitor 
to DC while in Boston with the NLRB, but now 
is in Birmingham, Ala. with a labor law firm. 
Word has it that a southern belle has stolen 
Barry's heart. The last ^veckend of January saw 
JOHN DEARIE and friend in tou-n from NYC 
Yours truly threw a small party for John at which 
TOAI JORLING, JOHN MACHECA, BRIAN 
O'NEILL, BILL SC.\NLON and STEVE WEID­
NER attended. John is in law school at NYU 
and is currently the pres. of the Bronx Young 
Democrats. 
A new addition to our area is C-ARAIEN 
"SONNY" BELEFONTE who is stationed at the 
Pentagon. Sonny lives in Alexandria, Va. with 
vnic and young son. PETE DEMPSEY lives in 
Bethcsda, Md. while interning at the National 
Institute of Health. JOE CAREY is finishing 
studies at Holy Cross Seminary in Washington. 
JIAf AfcCABE works part time on Capitol Hill 
while attending law school. Jim's wife Gail just 
presented him with their fourth daughter. JIAl 
HAIGHT lives in Rock\-ilIc, Aid. and attends law-
school at the U. of Afarybnd. AfIKE KERR is 
interning in Washington after completing Med 
school at Georgetown. RAY RAEDY works for 
the Republican National Committee and is very 

active in the local Alumni Club. 
Received a nice letter from JAIAIE FUSTER who was just recently married and is now teach­ing at the Law School of the U. of Puerto Rico where he received hts law degree in 1965. Jaime then went to Columbia and obtained a master's in law and is currently close to his doctorate. 
JIM AflKACICH sends word that he and wife Barbara recently had a son. Jim is going to the McGeorge School of Law, U. of Pacific, and is derlung for a Sacramento law firm. Jim sends word that AOKE PRECOBB is living in the 
active duty in the Army, three years' active reserve and is now a retired captain. He has one daughter and is employed with Smith and Schaefer as a mfg. rep. for institutional furniture. He is cur­rently \-ice-chairman in the Cincinnanti phase of the SUMMA campaign. MIKE BIRD was trans­ferred from Oakland, Calif, to Seattle, Wash, for Xerox Corp. to open a new office. Mike married Diane (SMC'62) and they are expecting thdr third child in April. BRIAN TUOHY was ap­pointed assistant to the dean of college, Adelphi Sulfolk Col. Oakdale, NY. in August, 1967. Brian was formerly mgr. of orientation in the public relations dcpt. of Grumman Aircraft Engineerins Corp. in Bethpage, NY. He is currently living in Stony Brook, Long Island \nth his wife Eileen aod daughter. Alary Elizabeth. 
BOB McCUTCHAN \vas married Sept. 23. 1967 to Sheila Curtin and, after a honeymoon in Hawaii, they arc now residing in Bay Ridge Brooklyn. Bob is employed with American .Sp­lines as an internal auditor. DAN XfATERNA changed jobs last year from Wheeling Steel to Austenal Microcast in Dover, NJ. He has two children, David and Alary. Dan heard from JOE BETTE and, after a few years in the Peace Corps, he now has his AIBA from U. of Pitt, and is working in South America. 
The Duke, JIAl SULLIVAN, after giaduatins from DePaul Law School, is now working as administrative assistant to the Chi. Police Chief. 
Bay area, w^irking for Univac and still a happy 
bachelor. 
AfIKE GUARNIERI recently received a doctor 
of philosophy degree in physiological chemistry 
from Ohio State. Mike and wife Susan (also a 
doctor) have one child and now live in Phila­
delphia where ACke is doing biochemical re­
search at the Wbtar Institute of the U. of Pa. 
From American Airiines comes word that DENNIS 
STROJNY has been awarded the silver wings of 
an American Airlines flight officer. He and wife 
Gay and their daughter will make their home in 
the NYC area. 

From J. G. O'KEEFE '30 a xerox of a news item about GEORGE C. O'KEEFE which ap­peared in the China Post, the oldest English-language paper in Free China: While enroute to his office with a co-worker, Lt. O'Kcefe USN, aide to Vice Admiral John L. Chew, CO of the US Taiu-an Defense Command., attempted to maneuver his VW into a flooded dip in the road and fotmd his craft losing contact with the road surface and floating sideways out over a rice paddy. True to Naval tradition and gallant to the end, Lt. O'Kccfe emerged from the nearest **hatch" to guide his little "puddle jumper" safely to terra iirma with his passenger remaining aboard m comparative comfort. Now Lt. O'Kccfe can verify the chums of VW's advertising—it xeally does float! 
DANIEL O'DONEGHUE is out of the AF aod working for Owens-Coming Fiberglass in NJ. His new address is Silver Lake Alanor, 908 Brand Ave., Cehncnton, NJ. 
Sketchy news from the Chicago area has RICH JALOVEC working for the US attorney's office xn the Windy City. Rumor has it that Rich is planning and organizing a Afardi Gras Ball for members of the locral bar association. JOHN CHESTNUT is a patent attorney; RAY KELLY just finished law school; and JIAf FINUCANE and VINCE HARTIGAN are both stock brokers. QUIN DENVIR is attending law school at the U. of Chicago. 
From Cincinnati comes word that DICK SCHIAIPF, TREY HEEKIN and BILL BUS-AfEYER all graduated from the U. of Cincinnati Law School and all are employed by local law firms. JIAf CAREY is still in Cleveland in the insurance business. 
Former members of the Sid Club basketball team are now to be heard from. AIARK GOLDSAHTH is in his hometown of Afahnomen, Afinn. working in the lumber busness. Could you mail out a copy of your local newspaper, **Goldy"? AIIKE HARRON is flying jets over Vietnam off the car­rier Coral Sea. Alike is due to return soon to the States where wife Theresa and one child wait. 
Where are you, AOKE DUNNIGAN and DICK AfcCORAHCK? 
1 0AO I AU/ PAUL K. ROONEV 
I yOZ LAYV xjjs, COURTHOUSE FOLEY SO. NEW YORK, N.Y. 10007 
Capt. RON HOWARD, after spending 37 months 
in Germany, received a letter of commendation 
and the Axiny Commendation Aledal. After a 
month's leave in Wash, with his ynSc Piiscilb, Ron 
b now in Vietnam. TOM CORCORAN married 
the former Helen Alarie Anderson (SAIC'61). 

They have three boys and one girl. Two years 
of graduate study and two years in the military 
have brought him to his present posiuon as ad­

minstrative assistant to the president pro tempore 
of the lU. Senate. 
That's about it for now. I still have more info and I will try to get it all in the next article. Please use the yellow card on page 30 in the ALUMNUS and drop me a line on what you are doing. Thanks for all your help. 
lOAl lAUf JOHN N. MORELAND 
I YD I LAW 2U»/, E. MAIN ST. 

OTTUMWA, IOWA 52501 Received card from DICK BIES which announced the arrival of Ann April 24, 1967 while Dick was stationed in Germany. His new address is 4825 Bcatty Dr., Riverside, Calif. 92506. 
Also heard from Polly and JIAf TALAGA, JACK HOFFER, "SOAPY" WEBBER and his wife Judy and two boys, Danny and Tommy. 
You win note a yellow insert on page 30 in the maganne thb month. Please take the time to drop me a line on the card and it will give mo luel for the whole year's columns. 
STAN PECORA and bride Pat are now settled in Bradford, Pa., having thoroughly enjoyed a two-week honeymoon in Puerto Rico and Afiami in late November. For the last four years Stan's been in private practice—"some trial work, both iiviX and criminal, represent divorce plaintiffs and defendants, handle real estate matters, etc." He struck out on hb ou-n shortly after he completed his six-month tour of duty with the Pcnns}-ivania Army National Guard. Now it's Captain Pecora, assistant staff judge advocate of the 28th Infantry Division. 
RALPH H. Wn r has been made a partner of the Atlanta firm of SMITH, COHEN, RINGEL, KOHLER, MARTIN and LOWE. (Twenty-Fourth Floor, First National Bank Building). JOHN W. DELL's firm has undergone a bit of re-organization and is now CONE, WAGNER, NUGENT, JOHNSON, AfcKEOWN & DELL. (507 N. Olive Ave., W. Palm Beach, and 1259 
S. Florida Ave., Cocoa, Fla.) 
DICK WILBUR has been awarded a Congres­nonal Fellowship, underwritten by the Ford Foun­dation and adminbtered by the American Political Science Assoc. The fellowship has enabled Dick to pursue his studies in economics and political sdence at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, this year. 
 P. DICELLO 218 PALMER HILL RD. OLD GREEN1VICH, CONN. 06870 

1963 
FRANK JUNE 7*8'9 
106 3  LA W  JOSEPH  R. SULLIVAN  
• TO a  U%VV  1526 E. CEDAR  ST.  
SOUTH  BEND, IND. 46617  

 STEPHENS noo CLOVE RD., NO. 5-C 
STATEN ISLAND, NY 10301 

1964 CLAY 
Pvt. ROBERT J. STORK JR completed ad­vanced infantry training at Anny's Ft. Lewis, Wash. 2nd Lt. WILLLUK H. MALLEY completed a supply officer course at the Aimy Quartermaster School, Ft. Lee, Va. 
Since his voluntary departure from the Anny, JOHN V. STUCKO has carried ND's banner into the heart of enemy territory. His new address: 211 S. Waverly Rd. Apt 18, Lansing, Mich. 48904. He was married last March and is working as public ^relations coordinator for Fann Bureau Ins. He writes, "After two football seasons in Olcinawa, yoa can guess how eager I am to «sit ND Sta­dium again." 
PETER E. RUMSEY has joined the purchasing and traffic dept. in the Chicago office of American Oil Co. He will work as a project analyst in 
ALUMNUS MARCH WiS APRIL' 

traffic research. 
MICHAEL C. GEKHGNANI MS. PhD '65 has 

authored Siementary Topoloey» a college textbook 
in topoI(^y. 
LAURIE GOTT is in his fourth year at the U. 

of 111. Kfed. School. He is married to the former 

Mary Kay Duffy (SMC'66). 
JIM GLEASON is working for Champion Knit­

ting Mills in Rochester, NY. Me was married last 
summer to Mary Fran Pctricca (SMC *66). . 
JACK STANLEY graduated from Georgetown Law 
Center last June and is non^ associated mth 
Kramer, Wales and Robinson in Binghamton. He 
is now the proud father of two sons, the youngest 
bom last June. 
PAT DELUHERY is now teaching international 

economics at St. Ambrose Col- in Davenport, Iowa 
after graduating from the London School of 
Economics in England. 
CHARLES G. BRAGG and his mfe Sharon are 

proud parents. Charles is now district mgr. for 
March Instrument Co. in the St. Louis-Kansas 
City area. He was honorably discharged from 
the US Ktarines. 
Joliet, III. is the new home for TOM BROWN, 

his wife and two sons. Tom is working for Joyce 
7-Up Co. He also writes that Susan and DICK 
WOLSFELD welcomed a new son, Steven. 
STEPHEN H. KING is now practicing bw in 

Kansas City, Mo. after graduating from the U. of 
Klissouri. Steve's new address is 8117 Granada, 
Shawnee Mission, Kan. 66208. 
PAUL TIERNEY is in his second year at the Harvard Bus. School. Paul spent last summer in Spain working for a mutual fund analysing Spanish securities and writing consultant's reports for Inter­national Basic Economy Corp. 
JIM "TINY" MORRISON took over his father^s sandwich shop after his death. Morrisons* Sand­wich Shop and Catering Service has expanded into the catering field. Tiny mil marry Mary Grclic in August. 
PAT MURPHY received his MD from the U. of Michigan in June, 1967. He and his wife Norma, daughter Kelly, and son Shaun are in San Fran­cisco where Pat is doing his internship at Kaiser Foundation Hosp. He has been deferred from the AF for three years and wU be doing his residency in dermatology back at the U. of Michigan in July, 1968. They see JOHN MEHIGAN and his new bride Kathy occasionally. John has a straight surgery internship at the U. of Calif. Moffett Hosp. 
BOB LESKO received his AfBA from Wharton and spent last year at Georgetown Law School. Bob and his wife Kathie (SMC'64) are kept busy with their year-old son Mark. Presently 
 HARNISCH Apt. B

1965 
JAMES E. P. RD. 
863 GRANVILLE COLUMBUS, OHIO 43224 

DON ZO.\E has at last seen the light. He is engaged to Kfary Lou Barrett of Syracuse. A July wedding is planned. Don is in his third year at Buffalo Medical School. BERNEY ZAHREN is working as a foreign investment analyst for the Pittsburgh-based firm of Koppcr's Inc. Bemey also mannges time to wail his saxophone for a local well-known dance band. After attending mis­sile school in Vallejo, Calif., LT. DICK LEON­HARDT was assigned to the USS Benjamin Stod' dert which is home ported in Pearl Harbor. 
2nd Lt. LARRY STEFANI \vas married in April, 1967, to Susan Posson of San Francisco. Larry has earned an MBA at U. of Caltfomia at Berkeley and is now serving as battalion ad­jutant to the 159th transportation at Qui Nohn, Vietnam. Ens. LARRY COMES is on a tour of the Far East as administration assistant and per^ sonnel oiHccr aboard the USS Klondike, a repair ship, home ported in San Diego. 
Lt. ALBERT R. BASSO »vas married last June to Rose Ann Mitchell of Springfield, Ohio. Al is stationed at Wright-Patterson Field in their aero­nautical systems div. and is in giad school at Wright State U. Bro. DENNIS CLANCY CFC is teaching chemistry at Essex Catholic HS, Newark, NJ. Brother Dennis utilized a National Science Foundation grant last summer to study and plan a new physical science course for high school stu­dents. MIKE BATT was presented last March with a baby girl, Lisa Thye, by his wife, Judi. Mike is work as a tech. rep. for Dupont in Ft. Worth, Tex. 
WALT KEANE is also a proud father. Hii wife Alice give birth last March to Michael Wal­ter. Walt is with Pratt and Whitney in Hart­ford, Conn. DANIEL EKKEBUS was married .in August to Barbara Kay Yandivier, and JOHN DiFILIPPO is studying for his MA in sanitary 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
Bob is working for Communicadon Systems Inc., a management consulting firm in Fall Church, Fa. DAVE ATKINSON is now a stockbroker with 
E. F. Hutton and Co. Inc. in Chicago. Dave and his wife, the former Mary Jo Amico, have a son, Anthony Darid. 
T. H. SCHNITZIUS accepted a pontion with Ford Motor Co. in Deurbain, KKch. He «ras married to Kay Thompson of Pt. Arthur, Tex. in July, 1966 and also graduated &rom Texas Law School. 
JEFF NEUBERT is working for General Foods Corp. in White Pbins, NY. He and hu wife uid daughter, Afelissa, arc living in Rye, NY. He also writes that BOB FANELLI graduated {ram Fordham Law and now has two children. 
DAVE MANION and his wife Noel are m Boston where Dave is a Lt. in the AF Systems Command at Hanson AFB. 
Also in the Boston area is RON TALBOT who is working for Honeywell selling computers. He and his wife Roseanne now have two children, Matthew and Dtanna. Both were born while Ron was serv­ing as an Army Lt. at 5th Army Headquarters in Chicago. 
WILLIAM L MARKWELL graduated from the 

U. of Miami School of Law and is now practicing law in Henderson, Ky. BILL RUETER is no longer in the seminary, but teaching at Bishc^ Egan HS in Lc>ittown, Pa. and running the sales dept. for Rueter Realty Inc. 
JOHN M. KIENER is working as a systems analyst programmer at Addressograph Multigraph Corp. in Cleveland. He is also attending Western Reserve U. for his MBA. John married the former Kathleen Pritschan of Cleveland. 
How about sending me the yellow card on page 30? 
10AA lAUf THOMAS F. CONNEELY 
lYO t LA W ONE NORTH LASALLE ST. SUITE 701 CHICAGO, ILL. 60G02 
Even a cursory glance at page 33 of the Janoary-February ALUMNUS will indicate that Trusty Tom blew another deadline. But I have a novel excuse. The column iwas due Dec. 13 and Michael Cc ^ Conneely was due Dec. 1. Mike finally made it the 12th but old Dad didn't make it out frun behind the housework until way beyond the I3th. So much for my excuse, what's yours for not writing? 
The engraved correspondence department tdb us that LARRY GALLICK became a partner at Saperston, Wiltse, Duke, Day & Wilson and CHARLIE SACHER has moved to the Miami 
engineering at the U. of Texas. DICK "MAC" McMANUS has completed hu Army duty and b now hitting the books at Denver U. Law School. JOHN ROONEY is woriiing on an MBA at Kan­sas U and TIM SHAHEN is working at Centre Estadual de Abastccimento in Sao Paulo, Biaril. 
BARRY BRANAGAN is living in Sherman Oaks, Calif., with his wife Kfarcia and son Scan. Barry is an asst. highway engineer for the state. He re­ports BRUCE McIXDNALD is returning soon from a cruise to Japan on the USS FRANK KNOX and that Lt. BILLY DUFFY is buiWing roads in Thailand with the 809 Engineering Ba. G. MICHAEL NEWBRAND was married in August to Claire Ann Holmes of Ridgewood NJ. They honey­mooned in St. Croix. JAMES KELLY was married in June to Jeannettc Mary Jenisch of Larchmont, NY and is now in Columbia Business SchooL 
MIKE BRODERICK received an MBA in trans­portation from Wharton Business School, got a job with American Airlines in New York and now fimls time to attend Fordham Law School. RICHARD TONDRA's wife Rosemary presented him with a son, Mark Christopher, last July. Dick is in his third year of grad study at Michigan State. While working as a systems engineer for IBM, JACK ERNSBERGER also attends OCS on a part-time basis for the National Guard. Hu wife Karen gave birth to their first child, Elizabeth Claire last August. 
PETE DERRICO has earned an MS m bac­teriology at NY Med. School and is now in Bologna, Italy with wife Georgia (Santangelo SMC '66) attending med. schooL Pete writes that BILL FLATTERY a with TWA in NY, BOB FLOOD with American Airlines in NY and PAUL OEVUN with Hayden and Stone in the city. 
A ncwiywed as of February is BOB McKEEVER who exchanged vows with Mary Kathleen Sullivan of Newton, Mass. Boh has received an MA in political science from Boston College, is employed at the Underwater Sound Lab. in New London as personnel management specialist and is working firm of Walton, Laatoff, SthfoeJer, Canon ft WaU. ^ -^ -. _ 
It warn t ejigi'vcd bat tont vtxf mjimlMit comspondeiice « « iccoved bam the lemor put­ncr of the wdl knowa bdanpob fim of Kcta. Scfanippcl ft Fortin. Tom writes: "It has bcca decided that the 'Date ibr ft,' win be the Rndiie game Sept. 28. Evenone should taucure his oms game tickets. Anrone mslmig to sit srith 'the gnnp' should send his advance ticket sale ocder blank mmi check to Tom Kern, 1410 Stevens Ave., Indianapolts 4£227, and Tom will send them in together. Hake sure Tom receives your order at hast one week before the first 'OfEdal Ilbqr of Sale' set out in the ptuLeJme pamphlet sent with the ticket order forms. 
"CHUCK SWEENEY and TO U KEKN have made some tentative room reservations. Anyone wanting to confirm reserva&ms for both Friday and Saturday should send Tom Kern a chcdk.for 920 along with the ticket order and ched. A program will be planned and announced after some indication of the number planning to attend is received. 
Brother Kern also informs us that Brother Mc-DONAU> has retnmcd from the wars and is nosr stationed in the US. MAXEY, where are yoo? The long slence of the west %vas broken by a cheery note from Betty and JIM SLATER an­nouncing they would try to nuke thn yearns fill reunion. Thar address: 5129 Univeiaty Dr., Santa Barbara, Calif. 
BILL FLAHERTY recently tore himself away from his bachelor pad in Chicago's Sandburg Village (very "in") to visit Monsanto's RUSS BLEY and repotted that Russ, too, is still among, the diminishing numbers of the unweddtd. Rnsi recently had to trxvd to the East Coast <m buriness and made time to vint Karen and FRANK WEL E in their attractive new abode. Jilover Miele a getting a lot of practice moving things these days as he has apparently been Utten by the antique bug and he and Skaren are fumislung thdr house with quaint old stuff. 
Spealdng of old stuff, Judy and STEVE HORSE sent thdr annual announcement in mid-January this year. Mary Frances Hoise is the young lady's name. Welcome to the Class of 'G4L laimly, Hary Frances, and congratulations Stew and Judy. 
Now, brethren, search through this issue carefully until you come upon a yellow postcard. Carefully remove said card, write thereon some news, affix thereto a stanqi and post it to me at the address aforesaid so that, when the next deadline (Uarch 
27) appears, I will have some meaty prose iqion which to affix my hand and seat 
for an MA in public adnun. at Hartford U . 
BOB DILENSCHNEIDER has recehred an HBA from Ohio State U. and has aho completed six months of active duty with the Army. Bob b now with Hill and Knowlton Inc., a piiblic relations counseling firm in NY C Also in the city is JAMES FISH who b senrang as asst. promotion director of Selected Magazmes Inc. JOHN KEEGAN has re­sumed work at I^ckard Electric, a GMC division in Warren, Ohio, after serving 18 weeks of back­breaking duty in clerk school at Ft. Knox. In thrir thiid year at Georgetown Med. School are DAN MORELLO, JOE D'ERCOLE and JACK TIM­MES. Dan was married last Sept. to Herry Fisb­bum at Elgin, H L and b now living in Arling­ton, Va. 
1st Lts. THOMAS FERGUSON and THOMAS NUMAINVILLE are both sutioned on Okinawa —with their wives. Tom N. b the commanding officer of a heavy truck platoon and Tom F. works in the data processing section of port command. 
JIH WALSH b the Dallas mgr. for system support marketing of Collins Radio Co. Jim also served nine months in Taipei, Taiwan as a field support engineer for Collins. MIKE MACKIN was recently appointed mgr. of the Roadena office of Associates Discounts Corp. Hike and wife Kirsti have two sons: Christian and Brendan Sean. 
DENNIS MEDEIROS was married to Lcsbe Eimer of Brooklyn, NY last June and s sow in Systems analyas srith TRW Systems in Long Beach, Ca&f. 
1 Ait e I AUf JOHN A. HAUTER iy0 9 lA W foso INDIANA AVE. GLENWOOD, nX . 6042S 
Kate and STEVE WEIDNER axe the "bntton­poppin' " parents of a son, Geoffrey Joseph, bom Hay 25, 1967. Hary Ann and WALT RIE­BENACK welcomed thrir second dangler, Kiistea Ann, to the worU De c 20, 1967. 
Jadie and HIKE FARRAR ate abo ptoo^ patents Wflfoming their second daughter, HilK­cent, bom we know not ^iicn. From the return address on their Christmas card we find the Farran in Whcaton, Md. (12021 Vicrs IkfiU Rd.). We have DO details on the position change. Hope all these indefinite statements encourage Alike to drop us a newsy line. 
JON KRUPNICK is now with Walsh and Dolan, Ft. Lauderdale, having passed the Florida Bar in At^ust, 1967. In a short note Elaine told us o£ their 80-degree Christmas. They arc housc^hunting lo Fm assuming they like the climate enough to stay. 
1966 
RICHARD ANGELOTTI 
8640 SOUTH 86TH AVE., AFT. 203 
JUSTICE. ILL. 60438 
Please excuse the absence of my article in last 
month's column but I was busily entangled in 
the mire of final exams and just didn't have the 
time to ''pound out" my column. 
There are many of our classmates still strug­gling twice a year over final exams; however, not many can come out as successfully as FETE CAREY who was number one in his class at Loyola Law School. Congratulations are in order for Pete on a job well done. Another of our classmates doing well in Law School b JED KEE who is studying at NYU I.aw School. Jed, who spent the summer in Chile on an intercliange program,' is currently on the staff of Annual 
Survey of American Law. JOHN if. QUINN, 
who celebrated his first ^vedding anniversary in November, b a student at Washington and Lee Law School. 
DICK LaPORTE and KEITH STARK are at Duke Law School. Keith is also coaching the freshman swimming team at Duke. &IIKE &Ic-KIM and MIKE DONOHUE arc at Crcighton Law School in Omaha and JOHN GAMES, soon lo be a father, is at Indiana Law School. BOB GANNON writes from the U. of Montana Law School in Klissoula where he is keeping busy. JAMES STANTON is at Iowa Law School after spending a summer at the U. of Edinburgh, Scotland. JIM BRADLEY is at Southern Metho­dist where bis interests run to patent law after graduating from the five-year arts and letters-electrical engineering program. 
. JIM PATTEN and JIM CASPER are at Mar­qucttc U. School of Klcdicine. Both were re­cently engaged and they are planning their wed-din|^ one week apart so their ND classmates can have a solid week of fun. TOM DONOVAN is at Cornell Medical School after spending the 
nOJLA lAU f FRANK GREGORY 
I TO O LA W 7403 KEYSTONE LANE FORESTVILLE, MD. 20028 
On behalf of our Class I extend to Dean O'Mcora 
(on the occasion of his retirement from the dean­
diip) our best wishes and our appreciation for all 
that he has done for us. To Judge Lawless, 
we add our congratulations and offer our services 
in any w-ay they can be beneficial to the school. 
This is a ''yellow card" issue so start writing. 
Pick out a football game you intend to attend 
and we will try to promote an informal gathering 
of the dan. 
Just after I mailed the copy for the February issue, BOB KRAUSE called to tell me that Tern and he had been blessed uith an early Christmas present — six-pound Kevin Robert, possessed of blue e>'es and brown hair. Later information has it that Bob has taken well to the life of the father. BOB IblURPHY has been making regular trips to Detroit and the two Bobs arc in the habit of getting together. 
Murph saw &IIKE SCHIMBERG who is still pla^ g the part of the New York Lawyer. Mike w*ent to Miami for the game and ran into JAY DOUGHERTY. DENNY DEE is in residence in Vietnam. He can presently be reached through Hq. 793 M.P. Bn., APO, NYC 09696. Madge wrote to tell us what RAY STARRMANN, now a certain in intelligence, is the- special agent in charge of the Saigon Field Office. Ray is due home in September. 'Stall goes by way of 524th 'MliDet. (CI), APO SF 96307. 
- Over the holidays we had dinner • with the 3«na:M£Y£RS and KENNEYS in Baltimore and Tern reports that NORM- &L\NDEL was the center of attraction at his godson's bris. I re^ 
42 
Bn.L BISH has taken up a new hobby—aying! He has accumulated some 40 hours of flight time and loves it, according to June. 
Received a mce letter from those "continental KENNEDY'S." BOB was assigned to the office of the staff judge advocate of the 3rd Inlartry Dinson with headquarters in Wurzburg. Both be and Bobbie are renting an apartment in a fittle Gennan %dllage called Gerfarunn. They feel that living knee-deep in German culture ynH give them a clear pei^ spectivc of the people and their customs. Txavd­ing has taken them from Paris to Frankfort to 
summer in Europe. KENT^TH KHOURY, our 
Class valedictorian, is on the staff of the YaU 
Journal of Biology and Medicine at Yale where 
he is a sophomore in &(edical SchooL During 
the summer months. Ken did research in gastro­
intestinal medicine at the Yale-New Haven Hosp. 
GUY WILLIAMS is at Northwestern Medical 
School here in Chicago. Guy was married this 
past August to Ann Homback of SMC. Class­
mates TOM SPURR, BOB 0*SHAUGHN£SSY, 
LOU BARTOSHESKY and BRUCE WALTHERS 
were in attendance. 
JIM CONLEY has had a very busy year. He got his master's degree in busines administration in June from the U. of Michigan and then got married in Augttst. Hc*s presently in Ft. Sill, Okla. for Artillery Training. TOM HUGHES, a meflical student at Ohio State, was also married last summer, as %vas 3kfATT DWYER, an N D Law student. DON HEMMER tied the knot in November as did RAY FLYNN. GEORGE BLAHA and HUGH O'BRIEN were in Ray's bridal party. -^ 
&fany of our classmates are studying for their master's degree or have recently received them. JERRY MARANI, JOSEPH IGNELZI, LARRY DOYLE and BOB SCHULZ have all recently received theirs. Jerry received his in finance from UCLA and then toured Europe with da9­mate BOB RIZK. Joe completed his course work for a joint degree in French and education at Wisconsin and was. then married in November. Larry received his from Michigan State in De­cember and was married the same month. He is now in Naval OCS. Bob got his MBA from Pittsburgh in August and is attending Ohio State on a research asastantsbjp while stod^wig for a PhD in marketing. 
DAVE GOEBEL is at Indiana for his second year working toward his MBA. MARK LEVAN­DOSKI is bock at N D working on his master's 
cently heard from Norm (1310 Bundrant Dr., 
Apt. 413, Killeen, Tex. 76541) who is now the 
iassistant G2 for the 1st Armored Div., Ft. Hood, 
Tex. Norm married Anne Brodie last June 14. 
He says he is ha\^ng a ball and playing a lot of 
golf. Anne works at the Post Library as a re­
search assistant. 
Courtesy of Norm, I found out that MARTY 
IDZIK, also in Texas, has gone Regular Army 
and is awaiting orders for Germany. ROSS 
PETERSON gives our Class a threesome at the 
Fort. DICK STEINBRONN writes that it is 48 
degrees below zero in Alaska ''and the snow is 
falling like mad." Dick will be finished with the 
military soon and would like informaticm from 
anyone in private practice in Indiana conccnung 
opportunities which might be opening np. He 
wants to practice in Hoosierland. Write Box 10, 
Ft. Greely, Alaska, APO Seattle 98733. 

Capt. XIARTY CONWAY sent us a copy of his multiple communication Christmas letter. He and Pat have done a lot of travel since gradnatiofi. Afarty is doing legal assistance work, advirii^ on matters ranging from property law to probata domestic affairs, immigration and naturalization* etc. He is also serving "in the capacity of priest psychologist, dutch uncle, sheriff, simon legree and Santa Claus." He, too, suspects that .Viet­nam looms large in his future. Write Apt. 68, Azalea Gardens Apts., Gum Branch Rd.j Ja^ ­sonvUle, N.C. 
' Etta and Capt. SCX)TTY MAXWELL are just a stone's throw down' the road &om the Con-ways. (MOQ — B .13, Marine Corps Air Sutioa, Cherry Point, N.C.) They sec quite a Int of each other. Scotty, too,' is involved in l^al ai­idstance work but be sdso does bis shaie oC 
Munich to Beriin — East and West — to Rotben­
buig. ' 

. HENRY BOITEL is searching for a new home. They are expecting a new arrival soon and con­sequently antidpate outgrowii^ present quarters. 
Please take note of the yellow card within these pa^es. Return it as soon as posable and assure your news to be in the next column. 
Have we any plans in the making for a re­umon after one of the £ill games? Any suggestions will be entered in the next issue to assure prompt porchase of game tickets way in advance. 
in education. JOHN REIFEL is working on his PhD in economics at Alichigan State. VINCENT GUTSCHICK is working on his master's in chemical physics at Caltech in Pasadena for which he daims Us ND education prepared him mar­vdously. PAUL MAYEUX is at LSU com­pleting his bunness master's. 
In sports, DAN McGINN has recently com­pleted winter ball in Florida and is trying out mth the Cincinnati Reds thb season. Last year Dan played AA ball in the Cincinnati farm sys­tem. We look forward to seeing Dan have a brilliant major league career. 
DICK CONNELLY was married a year ago December and he and his lovely wife, Mareia, are in the Peace Corps in Nairobi, Africa. Mareia and Dick are both teaching and Dick is also working %rith the Voice of Kenya as an educa­tional administrator. They had a recent addition to the family, Karen, thu past September. 
GREG RUST, our class vicc-pres., writes and informs ns of the activities of many of our classmates. Greg is working in his family's busi­ness in Greenburg, Ind. The business is that of a buying organization for variety stores. It's in­terestii^ %vork and allows Greg a considerable amount of travel. ED SCHAFFLER will be mar­ried March 23 on the Campus of ND. Ed is currently employed by Ernst and Ernst on their audit staff in Memphis. 
I ask you to be as avid in your support in the future as you have been in the past. You're really making my job a dnch and a most en­joyable one. Kindly use the yellow cards en­closed in this issue to let me know what you or other '66ers are doing. Lack of space limits the indunon of everyone's name every time so, if you've already sent me a card but haven't seen your name yet, please be patient and rest assured your name %rill appear in the next article. Thanks again for your co-operation. 
criminal defense work. TOM HARVEY is doing A different kind of defense work. He is now a captain and a paratroop company commander (3813 Hartwell Ct., Faycttevflle, N.C. 28394). 
Tom was the big hit at a litde party we had after the holidays. He came late but well eqtiipped 
— two large magnums of champagne with which we all toasted his promotion. He'll soon be de­parting for Vietnam. When questioned on his reasons for leaving a soft desk job at NASA, he replied: "Things were getting boring. Sitting in an oflSce all day long — ugh." To each his own and we wish him luck. 
JOHN GOTTLICK is with the firm of Williams ft Leonard in Chicago and, judging by the predse placing of names on the masthead, he is doing wdl indeed. He writes that he has occupied a studio in Old Town and purchased a new car. He hopes to break it in on a trip East this stun-mer. JOHN HAUGH's new address is 6931 SW 33rd PI., Portland, Ore. 97219. 
In addidon to those noted above, other out-of­town Christmas greetings were received from Fkt and JIM HAKES and son Mike (2813 Laclede Station Rd., Apt. C-5, Maplewood, Mo. 63143); MIKE DEL FRA, at home at 400 Folsom Rd., Folsom, Fa.; and Wmdy and AL McKENNA who enclosed a picture of thrir two children (I699-B Bumstock Ct., Columbus, Ohio 43206). MAURY NELSON sent abng good wishes from Buchanan, Mich. 
Bonnie and STEVE SEALL were heard from as were IKanne and MIKE MORUCCI (135 Mt. Ldlianon Dr., ' Bethlehem, Wheeling, W. Va. '2B003). Mike w-as at ND our first year and then went back ftft- his doctorate in math. He is a IdMfing light on the faculty of Wheeling Col. 
ALUMNUS MARCH ^968 APRII! 
 HUGHES 99 W. 37th ST. 
BAYONNE, N.J. 07002 

1967 
JOHN J. 
10AT I AU r JAMES C. HEINHOLD 
ITQ/ . LA W Soi Oddfellows BIdr. 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 By a near unanimous vote of a yet undisclosed panel, I have been chosen your secretary for the ALUHNUS. Apparently the other nominee was Jack Dcnaro. At any rate, drop me a line and let us all know where you arc and what you are doing. Data received before June 1 will be in the August issue. 
Sin(% information for this issue is scarce, 1*11 fill you in on the South Bend Alumni. BOB KONOPA is working for a large firm here in town; he and Maryanne and their two*year-oId girl arc living at 1627 Rockne Dr. JIM OLSOX is clerking for Federal Judge Robert Grant; his new address is 543(H Terrace Lane. 
TO.XY LUBER, the only one of our Class (that I know] has hung out his own shingle, was married in June and he and Mary arc now living at 518 N. Scott St. BILL ALBRIGHT'S address is 4320,W. Western Ave. 
Reports from the bar exams are scattered and unofficial but we do know we had 100 percent success in Indiana. Michigan and Massachusetts, 
LAW SCHOOL 

T
HREE NEW PROFESSORS will join the law faculty for classes beginning next September. They are Dean Leo J. O'Brien of the law school at Gonzaga U. (profes­sor of law); Peter W. Thornton, presently professor of law at the Brooklyn Law School (visiting professor of law); and Frank E. Booker, who is now professor of law at Stetson U. Col. of Law (visiting professor of law). 
Prof. Edward J. Murphy was recently elected permanent chairman of ND's new Faculty Senate. Notre Dame Lawyer. The new editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer is John A. Mac­leod '63 of Greenwich, Conn. He was elected to head the journal's 44th volume. He appointed these officers: Executive Editor Merle Wilberding, Breda, Iowa (B.A, St. Mary's, Minnesota); Articles Editors Robert Nierynck, Champaign, 111. (.\B, U. of Illinois), and Joseph Kennedy, NYC (BA, lona Col.); Case Editor John 
P. Rittinger, Poughkeepsie, NY, (BA St. Bonaventure); Development Editor James Gillece, Linthicum, Md. (BA, LaSalle); 
In the February, 1968 
NOTRE D.AME LAWYER 

John E. Kennedy '56, '59L, "Federal Rule 17(b) and (c): Qualifying to Lilifate in Federal Court" 
Alfred Avins, "Federal Power to Punish In' dividual Crimes Under the Fourteenth Amendment: The Original Understanding** 
Peter H. Lousberg, "On Keeping the Civil Jury Trial" Notes on teacher^ strikes and on corporate spin-offs. 
Case comments' on the tax benefit rule; con' stitutionality of 1966 amendments to the Fair Labors Standards Act; comparative negligence in Illinois; amusement parks under the 196* Civil Rights Act; inter­governmental immunity of national banks; and the status of tenants in public hous­ing. 
except for a single exception in each, proved no match for the ND grad. NY proved to be some­wliat less than a summer festival as seven grads' ran afoul of nit-picking procedure. 
There was joy in many HOLMES as DAVE was certified in both Midiigan and Indiana. It was rumored, and I may add without foundation, that the same news caused a cardiac arrest in the home of Prof. Shaffer. 
It was also rumored that an offioal investiga­tion was launched in NJ after it was reported that attendance at the Bar Review coune fell to an all-time low and, after the discovery of what was reputed to be the entire practice and pro­cedure of the state including case law and digest of previous exams, reduced to 14 mimeographed sheets (double spaced). Successful applicant KEN LAZARUS denied any knowledge of the scandal but he has take up residence with wife Marilyn and baby, Maggie, at 5641 Sanger Ave., Apt* 203, Alexandria, Va. Ken is working for the Justice Dept. 
D.AVE FRANCESCANI and his wife Maureen are also in that area, living at 12409 Brazfield Ct., Apt. 7, Rockville, Md. Dave is employed by the AEC. Another grad on the federal pay­roll IS straight-arrow JOHN HARGROVE USMa John's marriage to the former Jane Nagle took place in a suburb of Detroit last October and the reception resembled an Alumni Reunion. 
TOM SULUVAN and F!am were there and lui 
new address is 1505 S. West Ave., Jackson, BCch. 
JIM MOLLISON is/was practicins law mth lus Dad's firm- in Niks but, by pubGcation of this hmtci he-win have heen indnctcd. STEVE LAMANTIA was also schrdiilrd for induction but, a few days heton the swcarii^-in, Steve in­advertently (?!) foond himself on a ski slope designed for "experts." Nonexpert Steve promptly tore up his knee and the Army opted to post­pone the induction several weeks. The whole episode b not as sas|ucioas as it may seem ance the Army prooused to send Steve to Georgia ftn- banc training. 
JOHN J. BLASI was married Sept. 16, 1967 to Nancy Jean Cullen, a grad of Mundeldn CoL They honeymooned in Montego Bay, Jamaica. Blaa passed the IB. Bar last August and has accepted a (firect comnusnon in the Navy as a law spedalist, Lt. (jg) and will attend th^ Naval School frf Military Jnstice in Newpor^ RI for the next four months. Then he will spend three years as a Navy lawyer. 
MICHAEL K. COOK has been admitted to the Berrien County Bar and the State Bar of Mich­igan. He has been assodated with the NYC law firm of Wilkie ft Farr unce graduation. He is scheduled to be commisuoncd in the Navy in March and as^ned to the jndge advocate gen­eral's <fiir. for legal wo ^ 
NINE NEW EDITORS* For. the 44th volume. 
Managing Editor Leo G. Stoff Jr, St: Louis (BSC, St Louis); Note Editor James E. Mackin, Sherrill, NY (BA, ND) ; and Survey and Book Review Editor Law­rence Rousseau, Tiverton, RI (AB, Provi­dence) . 
Symposium. The law school's spring sym­posiiun, "The Challenge of Crime in a Free Society," brought nine speakers to the Campus Feb. 12, under the general chairmanship of Prof. G. ROBERT BLAKEY '57, '60L. Experts addressing students, faculty and law-enforcement offi­cers included Prof. Henry S. Ruth of the 
U. of Pennsylvania; Prof. Lloyd Ohlin, Harvard; and Irving Lang, counsel to the Narcotics Addiction Control Conmiission of New York. 
Also Peter Barton Hut^ former con­sultant to the President's Crime Commis­sion and a member of the District of Co­lumbia Bar; Professor Blakey; Eliot Lum­bard, former special counsel on law en­forcement to Gov. Nelson Rockefeller; Prof. Norman Abrams of the U. of Cali­fornia; Prof. Frank J. Remington of the U. of Wisconsin; and Herbert H. Isaacs, fonner consultant to the President's Crime Commission. Papers presented in the sym­posium will be published in a special edition of the Notre Dame Lawyer next summer. 
Felowships. About one out of four of this year's applicants for Office of Eco­nomic Opportunity fellowships in legal services was successful However, ND's ratio of success proved to l>e four out of seven. Three members of the 1968 Class and one graduate will begin next summer a year of full-time woric for the poor imder the federal program. 
The three students, who «n]l be trained in special summer programs at the uni^ veisities of Pennsylvania and Michigan, are Robert W. Hetr, Southgate, Mich.; Tenance R. Kelly, Decorah, Iowa, and RICHARD F. HENNESSEY, Jacksoa Heights, NY. 
* Left to right: James Gilece, James MarKn, fohn Rittiiiser, Robert Nieiynck, John Madeod, 
Tol 

kferle WUberdins, Joseph Kennedy, Lawrence Rousseau, Leo Stoff. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
As Notre Dame expands there is a growing emphasis on graduate school education. New programs and grants for graduate studies are being announced continually and SUMMA calls for even more atteU' tion to this important aspect of the University. With this in mind, the ALUMNUS introduces this new department which features news of graduate school events and programs and items about graduate school Alumni. We encourage graduate Alumni to write the columnist for their department about their doings and suggest using the postcard at page 30. We also urge other Alumni who may be interested in enroll­ing in one of the graduate programs to write to the columnists or the Dean of the Graduate School, Rev. Paul E. Beichner CSC, for in­
formation. 
Physics 
This is the first of a series of short news 
items for and about ND's growing family 
of physics PhD Alumni. As of August, 
1967 this "family" totalled 131. It is 

hoped these news items will provide a 
medium for the exchange of information 
and for the renewal of old acquaintances. 
For this to be a successful venture it is 
necessary for each of you to "check in" 
and provide me with badly needed infor­
mation, to wit: present employer, your 
job title, wife's first name, number of chil­
dren, complete home address, and last 
but not least, news about yourself and 
about other physics PhD Alumni. I will 
set up a card file, and with the assistance 
of my very able secretary (who in reality 
will do all the work) will serve as a 
clearing house for the exchange of infor­
mation and the dissemination of news. 
Use the yellow card at page 30 to help 
us get started. 
The first PhD degree in physics were awarded by ND in 1942, there being five recipients that year. World War II then residted in a considerable slow-down in the,output of ND physics PhDs, a phe­nomenon not unique to ND. Nevertheless, an additoinal eight PhD degrees in physics were awarded in the remaining years of the 1930s. 
Three sons of ND physics PhDs are currently attending ND. They are Mark 
J. Anthony, freshman, son of DON AN­THONY '53; Raymond A. Caston, junior in business ad., son of RALPH CASTON '42; Russell Feldmeier, graduate student in philosophy, son of JOE FELDMEIER '42. The first five physics PhD recipients were Ralph H. Caston, Joseph R. Feld­meier, CHARLES J. GALLAGHER, CHARLES J. MULLIN and LEROY E. PETERSON. 
Ralph H. Caston (high polymer physics) and wife Mary Lee live in Neenah, Wis. where Ralph devotes his technical talents and eneigies to helping Kimberly-Clark Corp. maintain a strong competitive posi­tion. Ralph and Mary Lee have three children and Raymond is the oldest. Ralph and Mary Lee's address is 638 Stevens SL, Neenah 54956. 
Joe Feldmder (nuclear physics) was recently elected vice-pres. of the Franklin Institute Research Laboratories. Joe and wife Janet live at 631 Midway Lane, Blue Bell, Pa. They have four children. 
Charles J. Gallagher '42 (physical elec­tronics) joined the General Electric Co. many long years ago. Apparently Charlie really liked GE for he is still with them in Schenectady, NY 12301. Charlie is married and has three children. 

Charles J. Mullm '42 (theoretical physics) is our very able and highly esteemed (I have to say that — he's my boss) physics dept. chairman. Under Charlie's guidance the dept. is expanding at a rapid rate and growing in stature and quality. Charlie and wife Joan live at 52755 Highlands Dr., South Bend 46635. They have three children. 
Leroy E. Peterson '42 (high polymer physics) and wife Lois live at 341 Vassar Ave., Swarthmore, Pa. 9081. They have three children. After devoting quite a few years to teaching at Drexel Institute, Pete recently accepted a new appointment as associate prof, of physics at Villanova 
U. He hasn't entirely severed connections at Drexel, however, for he is still serving as head of the physics program in the evening college. 
The additional eight Alumni who were awarded the PhD in physics degree in the remaining years of the 1940s are Bro. ADALBERT MROWCA CSC '44, HAR­OLD E. ELLITHORN '45, MARCEL­LUS L. WIEDENBECK '45, S. LEON­ARD DART '46, PAUL E. WACK '47, WALTER C. MILLER '48, DONALD G. IVEY '49 and JOHN F. MARSHALL '49. It is planned to supply up-to-date information about these illustrious Alumni in the next news item. How about check­ing in — the yellow card on p. 30 — and making my job easier? 
—Prof. R. I. Anthony 
Physics Dept. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6 

Chemistry 
Prof. John Magee is the current chairman of the department; he also heads the divi­sion of chemical physics. With the aid of the $4.7 million NSF development grant to the College of Science, expansion is underway, particularly in the areas of biochemistry and chemical physics. Re­cent additions to the staff include Dr. Gerhard Binsch from Munich, recently awarded a Sloan fellowship in physic^ organic chemistry, and Dr. John Clark from MIT in biochemistry. 
Dr. Oliver Ludwig left for Villanova in January; he will be replaced in August by Dr. Maurice Schwartz, currently at Prince­ton. Prof. Ernest Eliel is in Zurich this 
academic year as an NSF postdoctoral 
fellow; filling in for him is Professor James 
McKenna from ShefiSeld, England. Reilly 
lecturers during the fall semester included 
Professors Harry Gray from Cal Tech and 
Alec Dalgamo from Queen's U. in Belfast. 
The new chemistry research building is 
still in the planning stage. Radiation 
chemistry continues to thrive; more news 
in that area in a future ALUMNUS. Five 
girl grad students are evidence of the 
changing scene. 
In the following Alumni news items, 

many of which were culled from responses 
to a newsletter of two years ago, the year 
of receiving the PhD is indicated. VIC 
BADDING '61 is teaching at Manhattan 
CoL along with Bro. RICHARD NELSON 
FSC '64. On the West Coast TOM BAN­
NIGAN '42 is directing new product re­
search for Pilot Chemical in Santa Fe 
Springs, Calif. Farther west Sr. MARY 
ROGER BRENNAN SL '59 is research­
ing this year at the U. of Hawaii. SCARIA 
CHACKALACKAL '65 has returned to 
South India, teaching at Mar Ivanios Col. 
in Trivandrum. 
JIM COSTELLO '49 moved to Vel­

sicol in Bayport, Tex. in '67 and is busy 
setting up a variety of plants there and 
living with his family on Nassau Bay. Sr. 
DANETTE (Victor) DOBYNS FCSP '64 
has been postdoctoring at ND since Febru­
ary. LARRY EBY '41 is now with US 
Gypsum in Des Plaines, 111. as manager 
of polymer research and development. 
GEORGE FINN '54 is head of the mar-
let development div. of Du Font's organic 
chemicals department and lives in Chadds 
Ford, Va. JOHN GUARINO '62 is a 
senior research chemist with Mobil Re­
search and Development. A few years 
ago DAVE HALPERN '49 set up his own 
company, Polysciences Inc., with headquar­
ters at Rydal, Pa. Dave and family live 
at Jenkintown, Pa. HANS HERMANS 
'67 has recently joined IBM in the Phila­
delphia area as a computer specialist. 
PAUL KLAAS '49 is a vice-pres. of Wyomissing Corp. in Reading, Pa. An­other vice-pres. — of Frederick H. Levy Co. m NY — is JOHN KROEGER '37. His son, Michael, is a junior in EE at ND. JOHN LEFELHOCZ '66 teaches at the Medical Col. of, Virginia in Richmond. He was recently awarded a PRF starter grant for Mossbauer research. JOHN Mc-DERMOTT '44 is chairman of the div. of natural sciences and mathematics at the U. of San Diego. JOE McGRATH '52 is with Gulf Research in Pittsburgh and gets to ND once in a while on inter­view trips. 
GERRY MEISELS '56 is assoc. prof. at the U. of Houston. HARRY NEU­FELD '51, after a year as visiting profes­sor at the U. of Arizona working with "Speed" Marvel, is back as assistant direc­tor of the US Western Regional Research Lab in Albany, Calif. HIROKAZU MORITA '52 was a visiting scientist at CSIRO, Melbourne, AustraUa, in '66-'67 and is at the Soil Research Institute in Ontario, Canada. 
JIM O'REILLY '60 is now wth Xerox in Rochester as manager of polymer physics and phy. chem. Also at Xerox is 
ALUMNUS MARCH ^968 APRIL 

FRANK PALERMITI '49 who manages the process materials branch. DICK POVINELLI '66 is with Du Pont in Wfl­mington and living at Rumson, NJ. He and I shared an oiSce while teaching at the Catholic U. of Peru in Lima last sum­mer. LEONARD PRICE '62 teaches at Xavier U. in New Orleans. TONY SARACENO '58 moved last year to Good­year Atomic Corp. in Piketown, Ohio. 
Sr. MICHAEL SCHAFER SP '63 is acting dean at Providence Col., Taichung, Taiwan this year. Another dean is St. MARY JUDITH SCHMELZ RSM '57 at Mt. St. Agnes Col. in Baltimore. PAUL SARTORETTO '37 is pres. of W. A. Cleary Corp. in New Brunswick, NJ. CARL SEARS '51 is manager of com­mercial development at Virginia Chemi­cals in West Norfolk. He is currently pres. of the Commercial Chemical De­velopment Assoc, BOB SCHULER '49 directs the Radiation Lab at Mellon In­stitute and is prof, at Carnegie Tech. STAN SHEERAN '41 is vice-pres. of Tenneco Chemicals in NY and has two daughters attending St. Mary's. 
FRANK SOWA '33 is pres. of the As­sociation of Consulting Chemists and Chemical Engineers. The February ALUM­NUS recorded a number of his activities for ND. HERMAN SZYMANSKI '52, department head at Canisius Col., served last year as pres. of the Society for Ap­plied Spectroscopy. Herman has steered many Canisius chem. majors to ND for graduate study. JIM STURM '57 teaches and continues research in kinetics at Le­high U. in Bethlehem, Pa. TONY VER­BISCAR '55 is pres. of Institute of Drug Design, a company he foimded in Siena Madre, Calif. 
Sr. MARIA CONSOLATA VOSS CSC '45 teaches at Cardinal Cushing CoL in Brookline, Mass. FRED WEBER '39 is vice-pres. and technical director of Phelan Faust Paint Mfg. Co. in St. Louis and is a member of the board of trustees of the Paint Research Institute. JACK ZOM­LEFER '49 is pres. of Solar Chemical Corp. in Leominster, Mass. 
More news in subsequent issues. Mean­while get the yellow cards — like on page 30 — moving. 
—Bro. Cofumfaa Curron CSC 
Dept, of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 4SSS6 

Engineering Science 
The goal of the graduate program in the department of engineering science is to prepare graduate students for research in the interdisciplinary areas of newly de­veloping fields of engineering and science. To achieve this goal, first-year graduate students take a common core of studies. Here their background is fortified with a comprehensive knowledge in the unify­ing concepts found in the domain of molecular effects, in the domain of con­tinuum mechanics where the statistical average of molecular effects are independ­ent of the state of the molecules, and in concepts on global analysis of large-scale interacting discrete systems. 
For example, continuum mechanics at­tempts to organize and miify the me­chanics, the thermodynamics and the con­stitutive equations of mateiiab subject to thermal and electromagnetic effects and mechanical forces. Modem continuum mechanics finds apjdications m the be-, havior of electromagnetic thennoelastic solids, elastic tlielectrics and the con­tinuum theory of chemically reacting media. The molecular approach puts em^ phasis on the probabilistic behavior of molecules in gases, liquids and solids; it enables a researcher to calculate the co­efficients of viscosity, thermal conduction, the diffusion of gases and thermal dif­fusion. 
Today molecular theory has advanced to a position where it is prepared to pos­sibly predict stress-strain relations which go beyond the limits of the Newtonian theory with applications to plaqnas, re­active fluids and electrolytes. 
The global view is emphasized in the analysis of discrete physical systems. The essential feature is the behavior of a set of interacting objects from a knowledge 
Anthony 
Robert L Anthony, assistant head of the department of physics, is a graduate of Miami U. and Yale and the author of many articles in his field. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC '33, MS 
'35, PhD '37 is a professor of chem­istry. He has been an invited lec­turer at MS U and has done re­search sponsored by the AEC. Dennis Dugan. a graduate of Creighton U. and Brown U., is an assistant professor of economics who specializes in econometrics. 
Bro. Curran Dugan 

ABOUT THE COLUMNISTS 
John J. FitzGerald, associate profes­sor of philosophy, is the tnmslator of Jacques Maritain's Person and the Common Good and was a contrib­utor to Jacques Matitain: The Man and His Achievement. 
George Kolettis, a graduate of the 
U. of Chicago, is an associate pro­fessor of mathematics. Last sum­mer he attended the "CoJloquiiun on Abelian Groups" in Montpellier, France. Bernard NoHing MA '49, PhD '55, a specialist in English history, is an 
RxGeraM 
associate professor of history. He is the author of Towards a Better Understanding of History. 
Adolph G. Strandhagen has been on the faculty since 1946 and is now a professor and head of the depart­ment of engineering science. 
Robert H, Vasoli MA '53, PhD '64 is an assistant professor of sociol­ogy. One of his research projects studied the effects on older workers caused by the Studebaker closing in South Bend. 
Kolettis Norling Strandhagen 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
of the isolated behavior of the constituent objects together with the way in which the objects are combined to form the system. 
This area of study presents to the grad­uate student a unified theory of com­plete systems including interdisciplinary combinations of mechanical, fluid, elec­trical and even biological or socio-eco­nomic components. After satisfying the basic core program, the student chooses an area of specialization in either applied physics, continuum mechanics or me­chanics of systems. With his advisor, the student plans a sequence of courses which provide a depth to his area of specializa­tion. 
Research activities that comprise the devising and the invention of ways of utilizing the natural sciences may be re­garded as applied physics and also as continuum mechanics. The prediction of component parameters, optimal behavior and optimum control of large-scale sys­tems arc the research activities in the area of systems analysis. With the as­sistance of graduate students, the depart­mental faculty is exploring many aspects in each of these areas. 
Professors William Stricdcr and Alan Monkewicz are studying Knudscn flow through random pore media, the relaxa­tion time of gases and the prediction of several transport coefficients using the laser beam. Professors Laurence Lcc and Teoman Ariman have employed the con­cepts of continuum mechanics to the plas­tic behavior of shells, to micropolar and dipolar fluids and to micropolar elasticity. Professors Adolph"Strandhagen, Raymond Brach, and David Sharpc, are investi­gating several aspects of systems analysis such as the optimum control of submerged 
vehicles, minimum dynamic response and optimimi design of structural beams and system identification. 
Until recently Dr. FRANCIS KOBAYA­SHI '47, MS '48. ScD '53 was associated with the latter group but now he is as­sociate vice-prcs. for research and special projects. Since 1965 the faculty in the department have authored approximately 30 research papers in systems analysis, continuum mechanics and on the molec­ular ciTects. , Many graduates in engineering science have achieved a significant rate of prog­ress. Almost all of the PhD graduates are at various institutions of higher learn­ing. Bro. ALBERT WELSH is professor and chairman of the department of elec­trical engineering at Manhattan Col. Dr. W.'VLTER WILCOX is director of Solid Mechanics Center at SMU. Dr. PAUL CHANG is a prof, of aerodynamics at Catholic U. Dr. C. HOFFMAN and Dr. CELSO SOUZA '64 arc professors of ^cctrical engineering, the former at HT and the latter at ND. Dr. B. WU is teaching at the U. of Hong Kong and Dr. MALVICK is teaching and conduct­ing research at the U. of Arizona. 
Dr. JAMES TOAL is a staff engineer at the Bendix Missile Div. where his activities are in stress analysis, dynamics, shock and vibration pertaining to the Talos MissUe. Dr. JOSEPH VERDON is a research engineer at the United Air­craft Research Laboratories where he is engaged in the determination of tmsteady 
flow ciTects in high speed compressors of 
jet engines and the prediction of transient 
aerodynamics phenomena associated with 
the distortion of compressor inlet flow. 
Dr. JAMES MELODY is at the IBM 

research laboratories working on programs 
for teaching of college physics with the 
assistance of a computer. ANDREW 
POLTORAK BS '60 recenUy received his 
PhD in physics at the U. of Michigan. 
He is at the Conductron Corp. where hit 
activities are in applied physics and 
analysis of military radar systems and 
penetration aids. Dr. PAUL MARTO 
BS '60 is an assistant prof, at the US 
Navy Post Graduate SchooL He recently 
received the PhD degree from MIT. 
ROBERT IktAROSE '60 and DERMOD 
KELLEHER '60 have received their PhD 
degrees from Stevens Institute of Tech­
nology and the U. of Arizona, respectively. 
DAVID NAGEL BS '60 is a physicist 

at the Naval Research Laboratory and 
since 1964 he has been assistant head of 
the X-Ray Optics Branch. This branch 
is concerned with x-ray diffraction and 
spectroscopy, especially techniques for 
chemical analysis using x-rays. He has a 
standing interest in solid state reactions, 
especially diffusion and expects to spe­
cialize in x-ray physics and materials. 
Since 1966 GEORGE SEIKEL '55 MS '57 has been Chief of the Plasma Physics Branch of NASA's Lewis Research Center in Cleveland. He has made many imique research contributions, written semi-tech­nical and review papers and recently taped a half-hour educational TV pro­gram on plasma. Since 1960, George has been responsible for NASA's inhouse re­search and many of NASA's contracts for investigating the potential of plasma thrustors for use in future low thrust in­terplanetary solar cell or nuclear powered electric rockets. 
He is also investigating the feasibility of producing electric power from Ugh temperature nuclear reactors using non­equUibrium magnetohydrodynamic gen­erators. In addition, he has recently started a program on the laboratory simu­lation of natural plasma phenomenon such as the interaction of the solar-wind with the earth's magnctosphere. 
FATHER RAYMOND MURRAY From a one-man department. 

It is apparent the above sample of graduates in engineering science have researched from the universe of very hot electrically conducting gases-plasma, as this fourth state of matter is called, to x-ray spectroscopy, to analysis of military systems and to continuum mechanics and applied physics. The breadth of coverage of their activities is indeed amazing. We'd like to learn of your activities — use the postcard at page 30 to tell us. 
—Prof. A. G. Strandhagen College of Engineering Noire Dame, Ind. 46556 

Sociology 
Alumni awarded advanced degrees in so­ciology at ND five or more years ago would be hard put to recognize the de­partment today. Changes have been oc­curring with such rapidity that they are not always perceived as the genuine mile­stones they represent. Even the depart­ment's name has been caught up in the process. We are now a department of sociology and anthropology, and the day is near when higher degrees will be offered in both disciplines. 
William V. D'Antonio became chair­man in 1966, succeeding Julian Samora who three years before had taken the de­partmental reins from John J. Kane. Staff rize has more than doubled in the past five years. Counting one visiting profes­sor, there will be 21 full-time faculty members during the coming academic year. Graduate enrollment has increased correspondingly, with 43 students cur­rently in residence. Despite this .twofold growth, we have managed to maintain the sort of faculty-student ratio that will help keep our students from becoming faceless numbers. 
Recent events have produced some striking differences in the sex composi­tion of the department. This year, Mrs. Joan Rytina, holder of a Michigan State doctorate, became the first female lay­woman faculty member in sociology at ND. Since September, 1%7 lay females, previously admitted only as special or part-time students, have entered the graduate program as equals with males and female religious. Two of the four hardy but charming trailblazers now on hand came to us, fittingly enough, via St. Mary's. 
Notre Dame is frequently called a na­tional university. Judging from recent trends, the label is somewhat misleading for the school's interests and image are in the process of becoming global. Most unexpectedly sociology and anthropology ~ have been caught up in the extension of the University's sphere of influence. Prof; Donald N. Barrett, director of the Insti­tute for Latin American Population Re­search, is completing a two-year investi­gation of family structure and fertility in Colombia, Peru and Brazil. 
Similar research has been started in the Hiilippines by WILLIAM T. LIU MA '52, who is working on a $181,000 AID grant. During each of the past two years one member of the staff — first Julian Samora and then Arthur J. Rubel — has been stationed in Mexico City as popu­lation program advisor for the Ford Foun­dation. And John J. Kane has returned 
from a two-year sojourn in Montreal where he established a sociology depart­ment for Loyola Col. 
Impressive as our recent gains may be, we are confronted with a sense of impend­ing loss. Our longtime chairman and founder, Rev. RAYMOND W. MURRAY CSC '18, has announced he will retire this June. Many degree-holders will re­call the years when Father Murray was graduate sociology at ND. Even now he is the department's pre-eminent candidate for the University's roster of greats. Teacher, scholar, chairman, author, priest and colleague — Father filled all of these roles with distinction. We are grateful for his coundess contributions to the de­partment and we are pledged to build upon his rich legacy. 
This column will be continued in future issues of the magazine. In addition to activities of the department, it will also report news of the department's advanced-degree holders. For this we need your help. Please use the yellow card on page 30 to forward information of yourself and/or of others who are sociology grads. 
—Prof. Robert Vosoli Sociology Depl. Notre Dante, Ind. 465S6 

History 
Most recent history graduate degree win­ners are scattered across the country teach­ing but one. Rev. MYRON M.-^URICE JUDY MA '65, is still in school —a t Columbia. 
Other master's degree recipients we have news of are Rev. BARRY JOSEPH HA­G.AN CSC '64, who is at the U. of Port­land, and Sister MARY MONICA La-FLEUR '65, who is at Our Lady of Fatima School in Texas City, Tex. 
Here are the whereabouts of some of our PhDs: DAVID M. FAHEY '64 is at the Indiana U. Northwest Campus in Gary; EDWARD JOSEPH GIBBONS '64 is at Siena Col. in Loudonville, NY; Bro. BERNARD F. DONAHOE CSC '65 is at St. Joseph's Novitiate in Rolling Prairie, Ind. 
Also teaching collegians are RICHARD 
J. MEISTER '67 (at Xavier U. in Cin­cinnati), FRANK A. RENKIEWICZ '67 (at Col. of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn.), RALPH WEBER '56 (at Marquette) and CHARLES POINSATTE '63 (at St. Mary's, ND). 
This is just a start. We'd like to share the news about others who have earned graduate degrees in the history depart­ment. We're making it easy for you by including the postcard on page 30—use it to tell me your doings! 
—Prof. Bernard Norling H/slory Dept, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Philosophy 
l a few other domains of these troubled times are the responsibility and impact of Notre Dame more keenly felt than in those of the theologies and philosophies implicit in current religious thought and practice. 
In its response to this responsibility, the graduate philosophy department has 
ALUMNUS AiWRCH 1968 APRIL 
IV^. A. Kiemm PhD '03 
FINDING THE SECRETS OF HYPNOSIS 
S
INCE 1646 scientists have known how to "hypnotize" animals but they haven't known all the "whys." Now W. R. Klemm PhD '63 may have come up with some answers. 
An associate professor of physiology at Texas A & M, Dr. Klemm has been studying animal hypnosis under a grant of $56,800 from the National Institute of Mental Health. He and his graduate students have uncovered evidence that suggests the brain's cortex controls hypnosis by sending inhibitory impulses to the brain stem where he says the hypnosis mechanism lies. He believes hypnosis may be nothing more than stopping these impulses from reaching the brain stem. 
He stresses that animal and human hypnosis may not be the same thing. However, he notes some similarities in­cluding the fact that both animal and human brains continue to process in­
- formation under hypnosis. 
Dr. Klemm, who earned a veterinary 

degree at Auburn U. and practiced 
veterinary medicine privately and in the 
Air Force, has studied about 200 rab­
bits, 100 white rats, 75 frogs and 50 
chickens in his hypnosis experiments. 
He hypnotizes them by holding them 
in a supine position and firmly grasp­
ing the head and hind quarters for 
about 15 seconds until the animals 
become limp. 
He found that 70 white rats which 

could not be hypnotized were made 
susceptible by removing parts of their 
cortexes or by interrupting the normal 
flow of blood cells to the cortex. 
His experiments suggest the cortex sends impulses to inhibit the brain's primitive areas such as the stem, mak­ing hypnosis impossible. Dr. Klemm recorded electrical activity in various parts of the brain during hypnosis and found the stem had both low and high extremes of electrical activity while the rest of the brain remained nonnaL The unusual electrical activity does not occur while the animal is not hyp­notized. 
One of Klenun's findings is that certain drugs and certain forms of electrical stimulation enhance hypnosu in animals and he feeb this is worthf of further investigation in himian ex­periments — but by psychiatrists, not himself. 
Explaining the relationship of his research to mental health. Dr. Klemm said "Hypnosis is a motor-ilisconnec­tion syndrome which is temporary. There are many motor-disconnection psychiatric diseases, wluch unfortu­nately are not temporary. If the motor-disconnection mechanisms are similar, then an understanding of hypnosis mechanisms might help us transform human motor-disconnection syndromes so that they are not permanent. 
"Animal hypnosis also has basic science implications because' it is a profound inhibitory state (of motor activity) and it also has many similar­ities to various stages of sleep." 
Dr. Klemm's plans for the future are to continue in various aspects of brain research, mainly hypnosis and mech­anisms of memory, and to continue teaching neurophysiology to graduate students at Texas A & M. He also teaches general physiology to seniors and graduate students in biology. An­other of his research plans is studying comparative dectroencephalography; i.e., studying EEGs in dogs and cats with brain diseases. 
He has finished a draft of a book to be published by Academic Press en­titled Animal Electroencephalography and has to his credit 43 other lesewJi publications covering such areas as radiation biology, pharmacology, phys­iology and brain research. 
developed a variety of programs to pro­mote the closest interaction between vari­ant positions on and off the campus. Notable among these programs are the following: 
The Intemation Conference on Marx and the Western World in April, 1966, co-sponsored with the Committee on In­ternational Studies under the chairmanship of philosophy Prof. Nicholas Lobkowicz. The participation of distinguished phi­losophers from both East and West oc­casioned a spirited and mutually en­lightening exchange in the large area of contemporary political and cultural theory. The resulting published proceedings (Notre Dame Press, 1967) have had a wide cir­culation even in Eastern Europe. 
The Philosophy in an Age of Christian Renewal Conference under the chairman­ship of philosophy Prof. Ralph Mclnemy. Two hundred philosophers from the US, Canada and Belgium explored for four days some of the critical philosophical is­sues confronting the contemporary Chris­tian as he tries to assess the intellectual cross-currents of our day. The Notre Dame Press is also publishing the proceedings of this conference. 
The lengthy questionnaire sponsored by 
the department in 1966 and addressed to 
all American Catholic colleges to collect 
firm data on the status and trends in 
philosophical studies at tlicse institutions. 
The results of this survey, tabulated by 
the ND computer and interpreted by Rev. 
Eman McMulIin, chairman of the phi­
losophy department, provide the most de­
tailed analysis to date of current and 
changing practices in this area. Similar 
surveys will be conducted at five-year 
inter\-als. 
The annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association in the spring of 1967 (the first in many years on a university campus because so few have facilities sufiScient to accomodate the large membership). In his address. Father McMullin reviewed the history of the Association and the recent dramatic changes in its composition and aims. A highlight of the meeting was a symposium on "The Nature of Philosophical Inquiry" at which Professors George Klubertanz SJ (St. Louis U.), Richard Rorty (Prince­ton) and Robert Johann SJ (Fordham) presented the principal papers. 

The Notre Dame Perspective Series in philosophy initiated in the fall of 1966 to bring to the Campus noted contemporary philosophers from home and abroad for extended close discussions of current prob­lems. This year's series, centered on "Ap­proaches to Ethics." Among this year's visitors have been Josef Pieper (Munich), Charles Stevenson (Michigan U,), Abra­ham Edel (CCNY) and Brand Blanshard (Yale). Visitors remain on the Campus for seven to ten days and meet informally with students and faculty between public lectures. An intensive reading seminar discussing the principal works of the visi­tors is conducted between visits by the ND staff member in charge of the current series. This year. Professor Mclnemy is the staff member in charge of the Ap­proaches to Ethics series. 
In subsequent columns, we would like 
to report news of graduate degree holders from the philosophy department. Please use the postcard on page 30 to let us know what you've been thinking. 
—Prof. J. J. FitzGeraldl 
Philosophy Oepf. 
Notre Dome, Ind. 46556 
Economics 
Over the last 86 months of unprece­
dented expansion in our natoinal econ­
omy, the department of economics of the 
College of Arts and Letters has witnessed 
substantial growth and development at 
three leveb — the undergraduate, graduate 
and faculty. New programs of the depart­
ment have emerged, and its size, tech­
nology and structure have changed ac­
cordingly. 
The number of undergraduate majors 
has been steadily increasing in the last 
few years. In June 85 economics majors 
will graduate. Under the direction of 
Prof. WILLIAM LEAHY PhD '66, in­
terested students have formed a local 
chapter of Omicron Delta Epsilon, the 

national honor society of economics. The 
format of their frequent club meetings 
ranges from round-table discussions of 
the tax surcharge, urban decay, aid to 
developing countries and the economics of 
war to a seminar on technological miem­
ployment by an invited faculty member. 
Although the department has awarded 

numerous master's degrees, the PhD pro­
gram is only a decade old and an average 
of one or two doctorates have been award­
ed each year. Lately, the push is on to 
increase the number of PhD candidates 
and to offer the graduate students new 
areas of concentration besides a solid dose 
of economic theory. 
The Economics Seminar Program, in its second year, invites outstanding econ­omists of the country to present their cur­rent research endeavors in an effort to confront the graduate students with topics of current professional interest. However, despite the academic progress, the gradu­ate students seem to have been left far behind in the touch football arena. The faculty completely dominated the annual tussle. "Maybe next year, boys!" 
With the new programs must come the bearers of the modem economic tech­nology, the faculty members. Rev. ERNEST J. BARTELL CSC '53, the new department chairman, and Thomas Swartz, associate chairman, are assisted by 17 faculty members, 10 of whom have come in the last three years. These new men, well armored with advanced theo­retical and empirical techniques, carry their research interests to Cali, Colombia, South America to investigate the low in­come slum workers under an Agency for International Development grant; to Essex County,-Mass. for research into the wealth and growth of colonial America; and to Washington, DC for a seminar on the economics of Catholic education. 
The autonomy of the economic tdencc must be recognized. Long, painful work must be devoted to acquiring suitable techniques. The economists at ND, al­though sometimes engaged in rather eso­teric abstract research, are nevertheless motivated by the hope that seemingly im­
penetrable problems will eventually yield 
to analysis. It is our hope the world will 
more closely approach that economic order 
which the Catholic university has long 
held up as an ideal. 
Keeping this ideal alive at ND have 

been the senior faculty members. One of 
the senior faculty. Prof. JOHN SHEE­
HAN '37 the elder statesman of the de­
partment, is retiring at the end of the 
academic year. Professor Sheehan is 
familiar with two generations of ND stu­
dents and has been an important source 
of growth to the department in his many 
years of ser\'ice to the University. Pro­
fessor Sheehan will soon be honored by 
the department, but hearing from a num­
ber of his former students (and there is 
a large contingent of them!) has always 
meant the most to him. 
For the near future, I predict infla­

tionary pressures, no tax increase, and 
high interest rates. What are the pre­
dictions of the Alumni of the economics 
department? Let us know! We are anxious 
to hear from all former students, under­
graduates and graduates and to know of 
their progress and growth. Use the post­
card at page 30 to write me. 
—Prof. Dennis J. Dugon Department of Economics Nofre Dome, Ind. 46556 

Mathematics 
Prof. NORMAN HAASER '43 spent last 
year at the Eidegenossische Technische 
Hochschule in Zurich, Switzerland as a 
National Science Foundation Science 
Faculty Fellow. 
Prof. Warren Wong will be visiting the 

University of Chicago during the autumn 
quarter, 1968 to participate in a con­
ference on group theory. He will then 
be a visiting fellow at the U. of Auckland 
in Auckland, New Zealand until August, 
1969. 
Prof. Carl Riehm is spending the aca­

demic year as a visitor at Harvard U. Last 
year Professor Richm was a member of 
the Institute for Advanced Study in 
Princeton, NJ. 
Also at Harvard this spring is Prof. Mario Borelli who just returned from a year's stay at Pontificia Universidad Ca­t6Iica del Peru in Lima, Peru under the auspices of the Ford Foundation. 
Prof. O. Timothy O'Meaia is a visiting professor at California Institute of Tech­nology in Pasadena. When he returns, he will assume the chairmanship of the de­partment of mathematics at ND. The present chairman. Prof. Wilhelm StoU, will spend a year's leave of absence at Stanford U. 
Prof. James D. Stasheff is an Alfred 

P. Sloan Fellow for the period September, 1%7-June, 1969. Next year he will be on leave and will spend the year at Boston CoL, Northwestern U., U. of California at Berkeley and ND. 
JOHN OPPELT PhD *65 and JOHN WALLER PhD '66 attended a mathema­tics conference in Montpellier, France in June, 1967. Also attending was Prof. George Kolettis. Oppelt is an assistant professor at the U. of Virginia and Waller has a position with the Institute for De-
AlUMNUS (MRCH 1968 APRIL 

fense Analyses. 
WILLIAM FRASCELLA PhD '66 is currently at the U. of California in Los Angeles on an Office of Naval Research postdoctoral associateship. 
ARNOLD JOHNSON PhD '65 is an assistant professor at the U. of Wisconsin in Madison. Johnson spent last year as a National Science Postdoctoral Fellow at Goettingen U. in Goettingen, Germany. 
On Mleeord-
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Jane Lee Wolfingcr to SAMXJEL A. LITZENBERGER '58. Miss Kathleen Mary Jones to THOMAS A. 
AURELIO '60. Miss Sharon Earner and Dr. JACK LANG '60. Miss Donna Lee Snedcker and ROBERT 
HOUSE '60L. Miss Lynda Lang to Dr. ROBERT H. FITZ­GERALD '64. Miss Nikki L. Mazza to JOHN C. KANALEY 
MARRIAGES 

Mrs. Alice Emery Marraa to WALTER JO­SEPH CYR '25, Feb. 17. Miss Jean Nicholson and WILLIAM F. NOO­NAN '54, Nov. 25, 1%7. Miss Janadcan Mcintosh and ROBERT C. GRODIN '61, Dec. 31, 1967. Miss Sheila Granito and DON DUNPHV JR '6», July 22, 1%7. Miss Joan Tomasctti and TOM WALSH '66, Dec. 23, 1967. Miss Lucienne Mary Olsen to ROBERT A. HANNAGAN '67, Dec. 23, 1967. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. CRAIG A. HEWETT '46, a daughter, Ann Elizabeth, Jan. 18. .Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP BREH.M '54, a daugh­ter, Erin Ann, Oct. 14, 1%7. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL KELLY '55, a son, December, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN O'MEARA '55, a son, Patrick, June 11, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. JUAN RAFAEL PACHECO JR '56, a daughter, Virginia, Feb. 22. Mr. and Mrs. TOM O'BRYAN '57, a son, Robert, December, 1967. 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL PETER UNDER­WOOD '58, a son, Michael Peter, Dec. 18, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL T. CLANCY '59, a 
daughter. Colleen, Feb. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES D. COONEY '59, a daughter, Maureen Johanna, Feb. 2, South Bend. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN J. DORNBACH '59, 
a son, Stephen Timothy, Nov. 28, 1967. Jfr. and Mrs. BILL WHALE.\ '59, a daughter, Eileen Marie, Jan. 27. Capt. and Mrs. JA3iIES A. AUKERS '63, a son, Steven, Jan. 22. Mr. and Mrs. NICHOLAS E. WALZ '63, a son, Thomas Arthur, Nov. 17, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. CONNEELY '641, a son, Michael Colin, Dec. 12, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. STEVE MORSE '64L, a daugh­ter, Mary Frances, January. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL W. RAY '65, a son, February. Mr. and Mrs. WALT RIEBENACK 'SSL, a daughter, Kristen Ann, Dec. 20, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. STEVE WEIDNER 'fiSL, a son, Geoffrey Joseph, May 25, 1967. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT KRAUSE '66L, a son, Kevin Robert, December, 1967. 
ADOPTIONS 

Mr. and Mrs. TOM O'DONNELL '59, tmas, Christopher Dugan and Colleen Coughlin, Jan. 
SYMPATHY 

Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH on the death of his mother, Feb. 18. WILLIAM J. ANDRES '18 on the death of his wife, March 5. EDWARD P. CUNNINGHAM '28 on the death of his wife. ROBERT T. HELLRUNG '30 on the death of his father, Feb. 20. JOHN A. SCOTT '38 on the death of bis mother, Feb. 8. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
Some of our recent doctoral students who are assistant professors are THEO­DORE BARTH '66 at the U. of Cali­fomia at Riverside, LARRY GERSTEIN '67 at the U. of California at Santa Barbara, ANTHONY HUGHES '66 at Boston Col., ROBERT JOHNSON '67 at Ohio State U., ROBERT KUJALA '67 at Tulane U., JOHN MISNER '66 at 
U. of Southern California, JAMES SLIF­
VIETNAM MAIL Because of the increasing number of Alumni now on military duty in Viet­nam, the Alumni Office would like to arrange for future issues of the ALUM­NUS to be sent ma first class mail to Alumni stationed in the combat zone. JVe extend an invitation to these men or their families and friends to forward their full military addresses to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

CHARLES W. EPHGRAVE '39 on the death of his father. 
J. WARREN HELLRUNG '40 oil the death of his father, Feb. 20. FRA.\K A. VEIT JR '42 on the death of hi> father. JAMES M. DRONEY '48 on the deatb o{ his mother. Jan. 29. 
VINCENT J. BROIVN JR '51 on the death of his father VINCE.NT J. BROWN '23. 
F. LESLIE LOGAN '51 and THOMAS D. LOGAN '51 on the death of their father F. LESLIE LOGAN '23. 
TERRA-XCE J, LOGA.V '52 on the death of his father F. LESLIE LOGA.V '23. BERNARD J. BROWN '53 on the death of his father VINCE.NT J. BROWN '23. 
WILLIAM E, '58 and ANDREW C. DOT­TERWEICH '71 on the death of their father WILLL4M A, DOTTERWEICH '27. 
GERALD T. FITZPATRICK '61 on the death of his father. 
D£.\.\IS P. 0'BRIE.V '63 on the death of his father DENNIS B. O'BRIEN '27, Sept. 25, 1965, and his mother, Jan. 30. 
MICHAEL SICILIANO '65 on the death of his father. MICHAEL R. SANDERSON '62 on the death of his father. 
DEATHS 

MARCEL HILLER '02, Feb. 13, 1966. He is survived by his widow at 4784 York Blvd., Los Angeles, 90042. 
ROBERT D. MURPHY '04, Feb. 18. CHARLES R. HEMP '05, Dec. 18, 1967. Alsgr. COR.NELIUS J. DO.NOVAN '09, Jan. 
25. He celebrated his Golden Jubilee last June and in 1960 he was named "A^n of the Year" by tlie Notre Dame Club of Boston, whose chap­lain he was for many years. 
TIMOTHY V. HARRINGTON '09, Jan. 30. He is survived by his widow at 3400 Anderson Rd., Coral Gables, Fla. 33134. 
BER.\ARD J. KAISER '12, Feb. 4. He is survived by his widow Evelyn, 604 E. lOth St., Berwick, Pa. 18603. 
ELMER J. WHITTY '14, March 5, m Chicago. He was the roommate of Knute Rockne in his freshman year. He leaves a widow Marguerite, 7447 S. Shore Dr., Chicago. 
GEORGE L. WOLF '15, Jan. 31. He is sur^ vived by his widow Mary, 624 Holton Rd., La-Porte, Ind., two sons and two daughters. 
M.ATTHEW E. TRUDELLE '17, Feb. 28. He is surA'ivcd by his widow Beatrice, 26 W. High­land Ave.. Plioenix, Ariz. 85103. 
A. LYNDON BRYCE '21, Jan. 29. He is suiw vived by his widow Elizabeth, 637 W. South Orange Ave., South Orange, NJ, and two daugh­ters. He owned and operated an insurance firm for 35 years and retired in 1965. He was first president of the ND Club of Central New Jersey. 
CARL E. SCHUBERT '21, April 30, 1967, in Hialeah, Fla. He is survived by his widow Mary, 6160 E. Second Ave., Hialeah, two sons and three daughters. 
KER '64 at Haiper CoL in Bin^bamton, NY, PAUL THIE '65 at Boston CoL 
GARY McGRATH '65 is an assistant professor at St. iSaifi CoL and is work­ing on a doctorate in theology at MD. 
Use the yellow card on page 30 to let us know what you are doing! 
—rnf. Gtergt Kol*Hlt tAath 0«pt. Netn Dam; Ind. 46556 

CLARENCE W. WILHELMI -21. 
VINCENT J. BROWN "23, Feb. 26. He is survived by his widnr Helen, 114 Woodbiii^ Ave., Buffalo, NY 14214, and two sons, VINCENT JR '51 and BERNAKO J. '53. 
F. LESLIE LOGAN '23, Feb. 29. Be is sor­vived by hii widow at 2009 duties Ave., Ft. Wayne, Ind. 46aOS, and three sou. F. LESLIE JR. '51, THOMAS I>. '51 and TERKANCE J. •52. 
T. CLARK HAHONEY '23, Jan. II. 
JAMES J. BURKE -25, Feb. 7. He is survived by hit widow at 3117 N. Vii^nia, Okbhaaia Gty, OUa. 73118. 
a EDWARD KEAUUE '26, Jan. 30. He B survived by his widow Uar^ret, 3fil6 North Ave.. Wankegan, lU. 60085, and a daughter. 
WILLIAM A. DOTTERWEICH '27. Jan. 5. He is survived by bis widow Marion at 907 W. Hotrell St., Jaiison, Mich. 49203, two sons, WILLIAM E. '58 and ANDREW a '71 and two daughter!. He was past president of the ND Ctnb of Jackson. 
DENNIS B. O'BRIEN '27, Sept. 25, 1965. He is survived by a son DENNIS P. CBRIEN '63. 
WILLIAM F. ARMIN '28, Uareh 3. He ii survived by his widow at 4009 Dbbfas Dr. SE, Httntsvnie, Ala. 35802. 
EDWARD J. CARRINGEK '28, July 28, 1967. RAFAEL GRIMALOO '32, January in Panama. GEORGE W. HARRISON '33, Sept. 19, 1960. 
His widow lives at 121 E. Front St., Ashland, Wis. 54806. 
RALPH L. MORRISON '33, June 1. 1964. The surnvors include his widow, 2217 E. 59, Apt. 709, Tulsa, Okla. 74105. 
JOHN J. REILLY '33, Haddonfidd, MJ, Nor. 4, 1967. 
Rev. AUGUSTINE OMA OSB MA '34, Jan. 22, 1967. He died_ at St. Bede Abbey in Peru. lU. after 56 years m the priesthood. 
The January-February ALUMNUS Ksted as deceased JOSEPH G. MAHER '41. We are pleased to note that OUT infor­mation was incorrect. 
LAWRENCE J. NOOK '45, Sept. 24, 1967. Survivors include his iridow at 52 Cass St., South Haven, Mich. 49090. 
Dr. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH '47, Nov. 1. 1967. in the crash of a private plane. He is survived by his widow at 5091 S. Boston St.. Englewood, Colo. 80110. 
VERN BURKHART '51, Feb. 3, in CaUfomia. He is survived fay his wklow Jackie, c/o tin. Dorothy Becker, 9102 Rosanna. Gaiden Grove, CalU. 
Maj. LAWRENCE P. CORBETT '54, Feb. 4, Woodbridge, Va. Survivors include the widow Margaret (Peggy), and five children, 3114 N. Adams St., Woodbric^. Va. 21191. 
Rev. FRANCIS SEIDEL MA '54. 
GEORGE M. SASKO JR '55, March 4, Fort Wayne. He is survived by his vridow Margaret, 3336 Kirkfield Drive, Fort Wayne. Ind. 46805. 
Sr. CELESTE CSHAUGHNESSY BIFA '61, Feb. 10. Sr. M. FEUX SCHAEFER OSB MA '63, Nor. II. 1967. 
FACULTY and STAFF DEATHS 
Rev. MICHAEL J. EARLY CSC '17. He tangfat at Holy Cross Seminaty after he was ocdaincd in 1922 and then •oved to the University of Portland to teach and eveatual­ly became president. He served at Busy other posts in his 
49 

BURTCHAELL TEGELS, SHEEDY, BERGIN 
K^^i> 
m
^ E:^^'­
m 

NEW YORK CROWD AND EXCITED BOSTON REGISTRANT Laymen sorting their ideas about religion. 
The Church Is Changing--and So Are Cluh Activities 
T
HE 1967 Alumni Seminar "Has Change Run Away With the Church?" has taken to the road in grand st)'le. In NYC, Indianapolis, Boston and most recently Detroit, it has brought together scores of Notre Dame Alumni, tlicir ladies and friends to discuss the complexities of the clianging Catholic Church. Just tlie "head count" is a measure of die suc­cess of the traveling program. 
But now it seems the effects may be even more far reaching. The De­troit Seminar March 31 included not only Notre Damers but members of all Catholic college alumni groups in the area. The Diocese was one of the sponsoring agencies and Archbishop John Dearden used the seminar to establish what he hopes will be the base of a continuing education re­lationship between the Catholic alumni groups in Detroit. 
Though there were different par­ticipants in each of the local semi­nars, each reaction was the same: en­thusiastic interest. The report of Richard W. Murphy '58, president of the Boston Club which sponsored a seminar Feb. 18, details some of the comments from speakers and the audience: 

"Many thought-provoking state­ments were made by the speakers, dis­cussants and members of the audi­ence," he repKjrts. "For example, it was suggested by Dr. John P. Con­nelly '44, chief of pediatrics at the Massachusetts General Hosp., that perhaps Mass should be required once a week but on no particular day — tliereby cutting down the crowds and making each Mass more of a com­munity service. 
"Mother Catherine Maguire RSCJ, chairman of the English department at Newton Col. of die Sacred Heart, stated Mass is not 'an orgy of feeling,' and perhaps people should not be looking to get certain feeling out of Macs. 
"However, a later speaker, Tom Lane, director of public relations of the Boston Edison Co., had so much religious feeling that day he was caused to sing a few bars of "Blue Skies' before he embarked on his prepared speech. People in the audi­ence seemed concerned about the lack of a unified liturgy throughout the various parishes and wanted to know 'who was running the show?' 
"On the subject of faith. Rev. Al­bert Schlitzer CSC advised that we should not try to bring the virtue of faith down to human tenns. Arthur Mullaney, a Boston teacher, stated one's perception of God continually changes, but God doesn't change and he believes many people believe in God because they want to believe in God and do not want to accept the other alternative. John Morgan, a Boston salesman, stressed that religion must be stripped down, made lean, and become an exercise in 'active love.' 
"Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC pointed out morality is no longer a set of club rules and the Church must change and repeal some of its outmoded Canon laws on Catholic morality. Dr. Lawrence Kane, assistant to the presi­dent of Brandeis U., concurred with Fatlier Sheedy and warned the as­sembly to close the 'generation gap' if they want their children to cling to Catholicism. 
"Divergent points of view became most apparent when Rt. Rev. Msgr. 
Francis J. Lally, editor of the Boston Pilot, stated he found Rev. James Burtchaell's comments on Church leadership appalling. Father Burt­chaell and Ed Coltman, a senior at Harvard, stressed the need for more dynamic and structured leadership within the Church with many policies drawn upon a consensus. Monsignor Lally urged that more confidence should be placed in the Holy Spirit guiding the leaders of the Church. Coltman stated the rigidity of the Church's doctrines just cannot answer our problems and that certain con­cepts such as Judgment Day and the fires of Hell should be dismissed. 
"A member of the audience, James Skahan Sr., summed up quite well the mood of the four-hour flow of ideas when he suggested that more laymen such as the discussants should be giv­ing sermons at Sunday Mass," Mur­phy concluded. 
Coordinating the program for ND was Dean Thomas Bergin of the Cen­ter for Continuing Education. Other University panelists were Rev. Aelred Tegels OSB and Prof. Philip Gleason. 
Indianapolis hosted the first of the "road shows" Jan. 21. Included on the program were John C. O'Connor '38, Patrick J. Fisher '35, Dr. Paul Muller '37, Thomas J. Murphy '54, Mrs. William D. Stuhldreher (presi­dent of the Indianapolis Ladies of ND), William S. Sahra '50, Robert 
V. Welch '50 and William McGowan '57. 
In NYC Feb. 17 at the Waldorf-Astoria, discussants included John R. Gruning, Frank J. Reidy, George Crongeyer, Dr. Daniel Bradley, James Griffin, George Kennan, Gordon Forester, Patrick Keneally and George 
P. Krug. The next day at Cardinal Gushing Col. in Brookline, Mass., the Boston Club hosted the traveling seminar 
and the last of the meetings was March 31 in downtown Detroit. 
It's Centennial UND Night 
Universal Notre Dame Night 1968 will mark the 100th Anniversary of the ND Alumni Association. The of­ficial date will again be the second Monday following Easter, April 22, and Club observances will get under way April 15 and continue for three weeks. 
Speakers from the Campus are be­ing lined up for groups which re­quest them by James E. Cooney '59, executive secretary of the Alumni As­sociation. Because many ND ad­ministrators have been travelling ex­tensively this year in the SUMMA campaign, more faculty members will be called upon as UND Night speak­ers, Cooney reports, and several stu­dents have also agreed to speak. "Stu­dent participation should add an im­portant new dimension to UND Night traditions," Cooney commented. 
This year 176 Alumni clubs around the world will be observing the 45th annual UND Night which was started in 1924 by the late John H. Neeson '03 of Philadelphia. Neeson, who was then president of the Alumni Associa­tion, originated the program to call the attention of local communities to the many phases of the University in addition to the well-known athletic program. 
AKRON = 

Our first annual St. Patrick's Day Dance was March 16 at the Yankee Clipper Inn. Proceeds will go to our Scholarship Fund. GEORGE DEKA.\Y '49 and JIM KEEGA.\' '59 were co-chairmen, assisted by JIM CEXSKY '56, BOB STACK '42, JIM DETTLIXG '61 and DAN BARLOW '48. 
—JIM KEEGAX '59, Secretary 
BOSTON 

One hundred fifty members and friends of the Club enjoyed a veiy' successful Seminar in mid-Fcbruary sponsored by the Center for Continuing Education. Tliis thought-provoking affair was at Cardinal Gushing Col. where committee mem­ber Dr. BROCK LYNCH '45 is a trustee. Mem­bers who did a bang-up job on the committee were ART MURPHY *59, JOE KINNE-^LEY '39, DICK WALWOOD '60, CHUCK PATTER­SON '47, JOHN CONNELL '51 and ED GOG­GIN '59. 
The Club published and distributed a 43-page directory listing members' home and business addresses and phone numbers. This is the first Club directory published m ten years and should prove useful to all members. The Herculean task of putting the directory together was ac­complished by JOHN C. McCULLOUGH '63. The Club is deeply grateful. 
The Annual Meeting and showing of the '67 Football Highlights was in mid-March. TOM REID JR '63 headed up the program. 
Friday, April 19, the University Glee Club will give a concert at the New England life Hall, 225 Clarendon St., Boston. There will be a cocktail hour and buffet in the same build­ing for those who wish to do some pre-concert socializing. 
Those who know a boy interested in attending N D should advise him to send a scholarshqi application to JACK KARLE '56 at 25 D St., South Boston. 
The Club is sad to announce that its Club Chaplain, Rt. Rev. CORNEUUS J. DONOVAN |09, passed away in late January. !May He rest in peace. 
—RICHARD W. MURPHY '58, President 
BUFFALO 

MARTY TRAVERS, the Buffalo area SUMMA chairman, reports Rev. THEODORE M. HE5­BURGH CSC will open the local campaign at a dinner in Hotel Statler May 20. Judge WIL­LIAM LAWLESS will be dinner chairman, as­sisted by JACK ENDERS, HENRY BALLING JR and HAROLD AUGUSTINE. Our annual celebration of UND Night will be combined with this dinner. 
Local Alumni were very pleased to hear of the appointment of New York State Supreme Court Judge William Lawless as dean of the N D Law School. 
Our annua) retreat \>'as at Derby March 29, 30 and 31. Chairman was IkfAURICE QUINN. —JIM SEYMOUR '35, Secretary 
^^ ^ CANTON, OHIO ^^ ^ 
The Club had a busy December. A very suc­cessful Communion Breakfast for N D men and their sons was Dec. 10. Pres. CHUCK KOEHLER spoke briefly thanking Vr. GEORGE DAKOSKE for the excellent arrangements and George in turn introduced Rev. THOMAS CHAMBERS CSC who very nicely brought the entire membership up to date on the new think­ing at ND. Basically he emphasized greater freedom in thinking as Father Hesburgh feels this imperative for all great imivcrsities. The officers for 1968 were nominated and elected as folloivs: Pres. TOM SE.-\MAN *33, Vice-Pres. George Dakoske MD, Sec. JOHN SAXER '58 and Treas. SAM DOMINICK. 
Also in December was the annual Christmas Dance which is mostly organized by present stu­dents at ND. Chairman for the dance was Bob Belden. There was a large turnout and a good time was had by all dancing to music of Dom CUvi. 
—JOHN SAXER '58, Secretary 
CLEVELAND 

The 1967 Scholarship Fund winner of the all­cxpense-paid trip to the Navy Gome weekend at the University was won by Dr. PAUL J. BIGNUS *41. The runner-up prize, which was a pair of tickets to the Michigan State Game, was won by JOHN A- KLEIN, Cleveland. 
CHARLES NEFF '49 was chairman of the annual Men's Retreat at St. Stanislaus Retreat House in Parma Feb. 23-25. Those attending reported that they had both a relaxed and en­joyable weekend. 
Pres. DICK VAN AUKEN '57 announces April 16 is the annual UND Night this year at which time the 1968 &fan of the Year Award will be announced. Main speaker will be Rev. EDMUND JOYCE, University vice-president, and it will be held in the Gold Room of the Sheraton-Cleveland Hotel. 
Dick also reports a comprehensive study is presently under way with respect to the Club Scholarship Fund and possible revisions to the Club Constitution. He hopes to have a final report on both of these matters before his term of office ends in May. 
The Club wishes to congratulate JOHN J. REIDY JR '54 upon his election as a council­
.man in Westlake, Ohio and also for his appoint­ment as vice-president and trust - officer for the Lake County National Bank of Painesville, Ohio. John was chosen to head, up the new trust de-partmcnt after having spent several years in the trust department at Union Commerce Bank. John received his law degree from Western Reserve in 1957. He practiced law with the firm of Falsgraf, Kundtz, Reidy and Shoup prior to his appoint­ment to the trust department of Union Com­merce Bank. John is a native Clevclander and a graduate of St. Ignatius HS and presently holds the rank of captain in the Judge Advo­cate Corps of the Army Reserx-es. He is mar­ried to the former Carol Van Rooy and has two sons and a daughter. 
Foundation Chairman ROBERT E. DO^VD '41 
announces his last call for reports due from cap­
tains. Those captains who have not completed 
their assignments are urged to call Bob Dowd 
immcdiatdv. 
—JOHX P. COYNE '54, Secretary 
COLUMBUS. OHIO 
Jan. 18 was the SUMMA kickoff in Columbus. 
The Club welcomed Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE 
CSC and his tf:am of speakers who provided 
members with a most enlightening and entertain­
ing evening at Scioto Country Club. ERNIE 
KLETZLY '61 emcecd tlic event. Elaine and 
JOHN GUZZO '62 came to our rescue again 
and handled the arrangements. 
Members w*erc informed at the kickoff dinner 
there is a bit of rix-alry between CoPs and Cin­
cinnati in regard to the SUMMA drives in the 
respective cities. Col's members are urged to 
respond generously when called upon by a 
SUMM.\ representative — not merely to put Cin­
cinnati in its proper place, but rather to put 
NOTRE D.\M£ in her proper place. If you 
are not called upon, please contact JOHN DODD 
'59, assistant general chairman, at 237-4769 or 
221-5551. Members of the SUMMA committee. 
Alumni Division, extend their sincere tlianks for 
the cooperation and contributions they have re­
ceived thus far from local members. 
—D.\NIEL J. IGOE '65, Secretary 
DECATUR, ILL. '• 
A group has to be enthusiastic to bundle families through ten inches of snow for Mass and else­where for Breakfast! Our mettlc-tcstcr, PAT NOLAN '63, made tliese arrangements for Jan. 
14. Rcx'. Dr. Hunter, S.J. spoke on tlic so­ciological parallel of the Church and its mem­bers and the family and its members. 
—STEVE GRALIKER '42, Secretary 
DES MOINES 

Tlic Club held its annual Communion Breakfast De c 17 at the Hotel Kirkwood in Dcs Moines. Officers for the coming year were elected. Those elected to office are JOSEPH BISIGXAXO, prcs.; WILFRED GILL, vice-pres.; JOSEPH ZUEN­DEL, sec; and JAMES BOESEX, trcas. The Club now numbers 92 members in the Dcs Aloincs metropolitan area. ANTHONY CRITELLI is tlic retiring president. 
—JOSEPH C. ZUENDEL '39, Secretary 
: EASTERN INDIANA 

New officers chosen to lead the Club during the coming year are D.WID D. WILSON '54, prcs.; J.'\COB M.\RHOEFER, \-ice-pres.; M. CRONIN '31, sec; JIM CARNES, treas.; and Rev. KEITH HOSEY, chaplain. Directors are TOM ADAMS, BILL CRAIG SR and JOHN C. HYNES. 
At the annual Communion Sunday at JOHN XXIII Center, Hartford City, families attended Mass and enjoyed bruncli aftcr^vard. The next Communion Day Dec. 8 will be at same site. 
—CARL M. CRONIN '31, Secretary 
ERIE : 

As the deadline for this column nears, wc here in Eric arc finalizing our plans for UND Night. This event will be in April this year. RICH McCORAHCK '55 and JOHN McCOR^HCK JR *53 will be the co-chairmen for this event. 
TONY ZAMBROSKI '52, one-time ND line­man, was named head coach of the Cathedral Prep HS football team. Tony was the line coach at Prep for several years. He also was the head coach of the Prep JV for tliree years from 1957 through 1960, and won three successive cham­pionships. Besides his new duties, Tony will continue to be the head wrestling coach, a position which he has had for the past 12 years. All of us here in Erie wish Tony the best of luck in his new duties. 
Attorney and Mrs. JOSEPH BARBER '36 and family are all settled and cnjo>-in5 their new 
52 
home which, by the way, is next door to the 
Richard KlcCormicks' home. Tltere sure will 
be a lot of Sunday morning discussions over 
their back fences during football season. 
FRANK RILEY '57 has been quite busy mtlt 
his new job. Frank is a stock broker with Payne, 
AVebcr, Jackson & Curtis here in Erie. In his 
Sparc time he has been quite busy with his work 
for the Eric Diocese Charities Drive. The Rileys 
are also well settled in their new home. 
JACK PALMISANO '55 is at home recu­
perating from surgery but probably will be back 
to ivork by the time this column is printed. 
—LEO J. BRUGGER JR '61, Secretary 
FT. LAUDERDALE 

New officers and directors for '68 are ED TROM­
BETTA '60, pres.; JOH.N' H. McGINN '5*, wce­
pres.; BILL D.MLY '28, sec; Dr. JOHN T. 
FISCHER JR '50, treas.; Rev. Patrick D . 
O'Brien, chaplain; DON DORINI '53, dir.; TOM 
SULLIVAN '48, dir. 
The annual Communion Sunday replaced the 

regular December meeting and was chainnaned 
to an outstanding success by BILL MOTSETT 
'34, admirably aided by drum beaters BILL 
M.AUS '53; FRANK McDONOUGH '41 and 
BOB McDONOUGH '52 and others. ND men, 
their wives, children and guests numbered more 
than 150. Mass was celebrated at St. Pius X 
by Rev. MARTIN DEVEREAUX '56. At the 
Communion breakfast at the Statler Hilton, 
Father Devercaux gave us whimsy and substance 
in his talk. Among the guests were BILL 
RICKEY of Orlando and Sen. ART BIDWILL 
•26, CHARLES SIDNER '39 and BUD FUR­MAN '49, all of Chicago. 
Chairman TOM MAUS '57 and his committee­

men TED GORE '50 and BILL KILBURG 
worked on plans for a great and glorious St. 
Patrick's dinner dance at tlie Governors Club 
Hotel March 14. 
The 14th annual ND Convention, sponsored by the Club with fine cooperation from the Palm Beacli and Miami Clubs, is scheduled for April 26 (after lunch) through April 28 (check out 1 pm) at Sea Ranch Lakes. The Club has leased 119 air-conditioned rooms for the period. Every delight under the sun is available. UN D Night takes over the evening of April 27. ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE is the headliner. Spearheaded by BOB GORE '31, the committee (TOM WALKER '42, ED TROMBETTA '60, DAN DOWNEY '44) promises the likes of which you'll iie\-er sec again. 
—BILL D.\ILY '28, Secretary 
.GRAND RAPIDS AND . WESTERN MICHIGAN 

New officers appointed by the board of directors arc JOHN D. TULLY '61, prcs.; JAMES E. 
The round
 of 

GOULD '62, vice-pres.; JOSEPH HOST '55, 
sec (re-elected); and JAMES CAHILL '55, 
treas. (re-elected). The Club plans se%-eral func­
tions this year including the observance of UND 
Might. 
—JOSEPH P. HOST '55, Secretary 

^^ ^ KANSAS CITY, MO. ^^ ^ AND KANSAS 
During 1967 the president of the Club, CHUCK 
O'NEILL, was transferred from Kansas City to 
Washington, DC. At the same time pressing 
business affairs resulted in tlie retirement of 
Vice-Pres. DICK PREZEBEL. 
Our officers are elected for a two-year terra 

with the new officers slated to take over on UND 
Night in April. They are as follows: W. F. 
UNGASHICK '43, pres., TOM McKEON '54, 
vice-pres., TOM FLEMING '59, second vice-
pres., BERNARD CRAIG '61, sec, JACK WHIT­
AKER '61, treas. 
—WILLI.AM F. UNGASHICK '43, President 
GREATER MIAMI 

The officers and directors to lead our Club dur­
ing 1968 were elected Jan. 24. These are BILL 
MAZANEC '48, prcs.; JAMES SWEENY III 
*57, 1st «cc-prcs.; JOSEPH "PAT" O'MALLEY 
*55, 2nd vice-pres.; L. NICK MUELHAUPT 
'52, sec. (rc-clcctcd); and GEORGE A. KEN­
XARD JR '48, treas. Ser%"ing on our board of 
directors are GEORGE HERO '52, GEORGE 
LEPPIG '28, CHARLIE MAHER '35, JOHN 
THORNTON '50. GENE KUBICKI '54, 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN '38 and MARTIN J. 
KENNELLY '53. 
We are especially proud of the many successful 

events during 1967 and offer our warmest thanks 
to cx-prcs. John Thornton '50, as well as to Bill 
JMazancc *48, James S\rtcny III '57 and BOB 
O'MALLEY '50. 
We have planned a full schedule of events for 

1968. The emphasis will be on increasing the 
active participation of those Alumni who gradu­
ated in the '60s. 
Wc have undertaken the project of compiling 

a Club Directory. This ambitious project has 
been under way for many montlis. It is antici­
pated it will be a useful guide for Alumni mov­
ing into our Greater Miami area as well as 
for members. For visitors who wish to contact 
our Club while in Miami, I should remind you 
that wc are listed In the phone book, 751-4528. 
Jan. 30 the senior member of our Club, TIM­OTHY V. HARRINGTON '09. passed away. He will be missed by all of us. 
—L. NICK MUELHAUPT '52, Sccretar>­

^^ ^ HARRISBURG, PA. ^^ ^ 
A good turnout of Club members and their families attended the Communion Breakfast Dec. 
geeond

 SUMMA kick-off dinners instigated many happy get­
togethers of ND graduates around the country—and at least one family reunion. "Papa" Walter Duncan of LoSalle, III. wos in Denver for the festivities and others in his family posed with him. Pic­tured above ore (standing, left to right) Vincent Duncan "44 of Denver, Wolter Duncan Jr. '38 of Okla­homa Cty, Raymond Duncan '52 of Denver and (seated, left to right) Walter Duncan III '64 of Okla­homa City, Mrs. Raymond Duncan, Walter Duncan '12, LID "56 and Mrs. Vincent Duncan. On page 53 at the for right, Denver's Mayor Tom Currigan is being congratulated by Denver Club Pres. Ed Mohoney. On their left is a gathering at the Pittsburgh dinner—left to right. Dr. Frederick Rossini, University vice-pres. for research; Leo Vogel, ND Advisory Council member; Judge Hugh Boyle, toastmaster; ond Dr. O. C. Carmichael Jr, national SUMMA chairman. Below them is Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, Univer­sity vice-president, who is displaying a model of the proposed dormitories for Washington, DC SUMMA workers Ralph Guglielmi (left) ond Robert N. Hutchison (right). 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
10, 1967, at St. Patrick's Cathedral. 
At a general membership meeting Feb. 28 
prime item for consideration was the adoption of 
a Club Constitution. JOHN BOLGER, DICK 
CROWLEY and ED ECKENRODE have been 
assisting Club Pres. JOE ELLAM on this project. 
Also, plans are under way for our observanco 
of UND Night. A dinner dance is scheduled for 
Friday night, April 26, at the Harrisburg Country 
Club. TIM McGARVEY, MICK BEKELJA, 
BILL SONDE, BILL O'CONNOR, DON WOOL­
FORD and JOE VIANI are making prepara­
tions for another outstanding affair. 
All newcomers to the South-Central Pennsyl­
vania area are welcome. Contact the ^\Titer at 
RD 4, Mcchanicsburg, Pa. (Tel. No. 737-6380). 
—FRANK D . GILLIS '42, Secretary 
MAINE; 
We generally hibernate during the winter months. 
However, a group went to the ND Alumni 
Seminar at Cardinal Gushing Col., Feb. 18. 
PAUL SCULLY, JESS DcLOlS and TONY 
SILVA, with collective wives, attended. 
JOHN YOUNG '40 moved to the Portland, 
Maine area to take over the active directorship 
of the Suburban Propane Gas Co. at Thompson 
Point. 
The Scholarship Fund has been functioning 
very well over its eight-year period of existence 
and most of the monies advanced to the boys 
have been repaid so they can be reissued to 
other needy boys for the coming year. The 
money is issued in $500 amounts at no interest 
with repayment made when it can be done after 
graduation. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secretary 

^ ^ McHENRY COUNTY, lU. ^ ^ 
The Club staged its most spectacular event to date in the form of a concert by the ND Glee Club Jan. 7 at the Cr>'stal Lake Community HS auditorium. Prof. Dantel Pedtke and his 39 talented young men thoroughly captivated an audience of about 700. GEORGE COSTELLO scr\'cd as general chairman of the concert. Mem* bcrs of the various committees included Pres. LEO POWERS, TOM HARDING, DON FREUND, JOHN CORRIGAN, BILL RILEY, TOM RILEY and JOE CONERTY. 
President Powers indicates future activities vnH include a Communion breakfast during the Lenten season — and most certainly the Glee 

Club will be Invited to KfcHenry County next winter. —JOSEPH A. CONERTY JR. Secretary 
- MILWAUKEE i 
SUMMA was formally opened Jan. 25 with cock­tails and dinner at the Wisconsin Club in Mil­waukee. Rev. Thef>dore M. Hesburgh's talk gave us an insight to SU&fMA and the peiw spcctive of the University's position in the fo­turc. Other special guests were the distinguished Dr. Oliver C. Carmichael Jr, JAMES W. FRICK and Dr. Frederick D. Rossini. 
Recently moved to Mihvaukee is JOHN Mo-

CULLOUGH, formerly news durector of WNDU­
TV, who was the evening's master of ceremonies. 
Our special thanks to PR and Spedal Events 
Chairman GENE SMITH who outdid himself in 
preparing this event. 
—BH.L lODG E '57, Secretary 
MISSISSIPPI 

An organizational meeting to form a statewide Club was staged at the Jackson, Miss. Country Club. Dinner and a showing of **The 1966 Notre Dame Football Highlights*' preceded the business meeting at which officers were elected. They are W. H. MILLER '30, ex^oflicio pres.; NICK HARKINS '63, pres.; DAVID McNAMARA '56, vice-pres.; TOM ELZEN '63, sec; and ERNIE THOMAS '59, treas. 
Special guest at the meeting was Most Rev. Joseph B. Brunini, bishop of Natchez-Jackson, and other guests included two highly rated Jack­son Murrah football players, Paul Dongieu.^ and Bob Burke, and their fathers. 
Alumni and friends of ND interested in join­ing the ND Club of Mississippi may contact Tom Elzen, 209 S. State St.. Jackson, 353-1490; or Ernie Thomas, 103 E. Pearl St., Jackson, 352-5674. 
PAKISTAN 

Rev. RICHARD TIMM CSC '49, vice-president and head of the science dcpt. at Notre Damo Col., Dacca, left Pakistan in the middle of February to take up a temporary appointment for one year as a visiting professor in the dept. of cematology at the U. of California, Davis campus. He will carry out research and teach a course on the parasites of man, plants and domesticated animals. 
—REV. F. J. BURTON CSC, Secretary 
=rHILADaPHIA = 

De c 10, 1967 the annual - Communioo Breakfast 
was held at the Sheraton Hotel following Mass 
at the Cathedral of S. S. Peter and Paul. About 
100 people were on hand to hear the main address 
delivered by the ifircctor of the Newmaa' Qnb 
at Temple U. CUFF PROEDHL and JACK 
DEMFSEY we n the co.cfaairmen. 
The Club's Knute Rockne Memorial award for 
1967 was bestowed on Gary Gray of Bishop 
Egan HS. The award is presented annually to 
the hi ^ school athlete in the Delaware Valley 
area who best mmhines football and dassroom 
ability. Gray, the fint Bishop Egan athlete to 
make the AU-State first team, is also a member 
of the National Honor Society. H e achieved x 
College Board score of 1334. 
Jan. 16, the following men were elected to 
the board of governors of the Club: JACK 
HENRY, PAT KITTREDGE, BOB MntHIELL, 
CliS Proedhl, TOM SHALLOW and RAY 
WEINIblANN. Also the foUotnng officers have 
been elected for 1968: Pat Kittredge, pres.; 
GEORGE MITCHELL, vice-pres.; Bob MitcheD, 
treas.; and Tom ShaUow, sec. RAY MULLEN 
was elected asustant treasurer alons with BIATT 
McCLOSKEY as assistant secretary. 
—THOMAS J. SHALLOW, Secntair 
' PHOENIX, AHZ. 

Officers elected to lead the Club during 1968 
are THOMAS J. SMITH '59, pres.; JON W. 
SMITH '60, vice-pres.; MICHAEL GEDDES '61, 
sec; and DON DUGAN JR '63, treas. 
Ti e second annual New Year's Eve Dance, under the chairmanship of JOHN P. MORAN '59, was a great success. Approximately 300 couples attended the event, with all proceeds accruing to the N D Club of Phoenix Scholar­ship Fund. This Fund pitmdes a partial scholar­ship each year to at least one Arizona boy at­teiuling ND. Michael Suarez, a sophomore from Phoenix, is the current scbolazsh^ holder. 
—MICHAEL GEDDES '61, Secretaiy 

^ ^ RHODE ISIANO AND ^^ 
S.E. MASSACHUSEnS 

De c 29 the annual Christmas Dinner Dance was held at the Hearthstone Motor Inn. GEORGE HESS acted as chairman of the well-attended and enjoyable gathering. Rev. Joseph Lennoa 
ALUMNUS AAARCH 1948 APRIL 
OP, dean of Providence Col., attended as a guest 
of the Club. 
Tcntatl\-c plans are being made for an N D 
Glee Club concert in April during the Club's 
viut to the New England states. 
—BOB McHALE, Secretary 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY ILUNOiS 
Pres. PAUL BERRETTINI called the annuaj 
membership meeting of the Club to order Jan, 
30 at Jul's Rainbow Inn in Dixon, III. The dis­
cussion for the evening stemmed largely around 
merger of the Club with the Rociford ND Club. 
The consensus of the membciship was to remain 
independent but to have joint activities with 
the Rockford Club. 
For tlic first time in the history of tlie Club 
the members agreed upon an assessment of annual 
dues. 
The electioa of officers followed a discussion 
regarding scholarship funds being transferred to 
the general treasury*. New officers are as fol* 
lo>«: Pres. JAMES DIXON, Vice-Prcs. DAVID 
AMES JR., Sec W. BR.V.D BOBOSKY, Treas, 
RAY DcCOURSEY. 
Incoming President Dbcon announced plans for 
UNO Night scheduled tentatively for May 4. 
—W. BRAND BOBOSKY '62, Secretary 
^^^^^^ ROME = 
Our ND Hospitality Center is open daily from 
noon to 9 p.m. Address: Largo Brancaccio 82. 
Or ring us at 730.002. 
The annual Romanized UN D Night here is 
per circumstance integrated with Irish Night 
March 17 when our neighboring Scoglio Di 
Frisio Restaurant is converted into an Aer Lingus 
Hanger where the ND funsters dine and dance. 
It is becoming more ecumenical every year: A 
Russian bishop now attends and happily dons 
a green paper hat. Our concession to him is to 
honor him at midnight by sounding off with 
"Midnight in Moscow." 
Quoting Guest Book. LOU BUCKLEY '28 and wife. Fathers SCHNEIDER and iLASSART CSC, PETER DERRICO '66 and wife, LARRY MURCHAN '66 and family, CARL KAREY '46, Rev. J.\MES HOFF '54, CHARLES HAYES '65, THEODORE COLLI.VS '58, brother of KURT METYKO '65, Rev. ROYCE HUGHES '60, Rev, JOSEPH HOUSER CSC '31, LEVI GENIESSE '24 and wife (parents of Rev. JOSEPH CSC '54 and PETER '60), JACK HEARN '37 and ED WALSH '25. 
Papal Tipoff: PAUL VI '60 holds public audi­ence each Wednesday forenoon; tickets available. Again on Sunday noons he speaks and blesses from his i\'indow; tickets not required. 
—VINCE McALOON '34, Secretary 
^^ ^ SAGINAW VALLEY ^^ ^ MICHIGAN 
A footbaU autographed by the Michigan State squad was auctioned off at a March 1 gathering to see the Football Highlights of 1967. TOM MURPHY was in charge of arrangements. 
Universal N D Communion Breakfast in De* cembcr was at Blessed Sacrament Church in Midland u-ith breakfast at the ^fidland Country-Club. At the business meeting the present slate of • officers was re-elected for another year and it was announced progress is being made toward establishing a Saginaw Valley Scholarship. JAMES ALBERTSON was in charge of the pro­gram which discussed proposed changes in Mich­igan abonion laws. 
—DR. HARRY B. McGEE, Secretary 
= SPOKANE, WASH. 
At the Club's annual Pot-Luck Supper March 12 the 1967 FootbaU Highlights film was shown. JACK HESKETT '62 and his lovely wife Mary Anne were in charge of arrangements. 
Dr. BOB MAHER '35 left for Vietnam Jan. 23 to give his services as an opthamologist in a civilian hospital at Btnh Long, 75 miles southwest of Saigoa. Bob will give his surgical ser\^ces for 60 days as part of the program of the Ameri­can &fcd!cal Assodation Volimtecr Ph>-sicians for Vietnam. 
Plans aie under u-ay for the observance of UN D Night in April. A speaker from the Campus will be the guest of honor and special attention is being given the event to celebrate the 100th Anniversazy of the Alumni Association. 
—JOE WALSH '14, Sccretar>--Treasurer 
TRI-CITIES, IOWA' 
The Club has been very active since the dectuNi 
of JAMES CORYN as president in ^ril , 1967. 
Under his guidance the Club now has a rotter 
of 138 members, of whom 90 percent are active. 
The Club has also included Alumni in the cities 
of Clinton, Muscatine and Iowa City on the 
Iowa side of the mighty Ikfississippi and Geneseo 
and Monmouth on the Illinois side. One of these 
days the board hopefully will take steps to change 
the name to the N D Club of the Quint-Cities, 
giving due regard to Davenport, Bettendorf, Rock 
Island, Moline and East Moline. 
The annual summer picnic was at Niabi Zoo in 
Rock Island county last June. JERRY HANK 
^vas chairman. For the first time in five years 
the weatherman did not cooperate. However, 
this did not dampen the spirits of some 100 
children between the ages of six months and 
10 years. 
JAMES DOYLE and EMMETT KEENAN 
entertained the Club at the Four Flags Motel in 
Niles after the lowa-ND game in October. 
A family Communion breakfast was held Mt 
the Kahl Home for the Aged in Davenport De c 
10 under the ch^rmanship of JOHN NOLAN. 
Rev. &L\RK EDWARDS, superior at St. Joseph's 
Manor and philosophy professor at Marycrest 
Col., presented a review on the New Dutch 
Catechism. 
ND went up with the Montgomery Elevator 
Co. Jan. 28. llfontgomery Elevator Rres. Jcny 

Hank and wife Joyce entertained the Club at 
the new quarters above the experimental elevator 
overlooking the Mississippi River in Moline. Cock­
tail hour scheduled from 5 to 7:30 actually went 
from 4 to 10. Needless to say, most of the 

members were "high" In the 20-story structure. 
Other events have included the annual St. 

Patrick's Day Party under the sponsorship 61 
the Wives' Auxiliary. Additionally, plans are 
presently under way for the UN D Night fes­
tivities. A membership drive is also scheduled 
for early spring. 
—THOMAS N. KAMP '60, Secretary-Treasurer 

^^ ^ SAN DIEGO, CAUF, ^^ ^ 
Feb. 17 the Club got together for an ice hockey 
game between the San Diego GuUs and the Port­
land Buckaroos at the San Diego International 
Sports Arena. CHUCK VANDEGRIFT '56 
made the arrangements for the event. 
"The 1967 ND Football Highlights" were shoH-n at the business-social meeting March 15 at Ted Mosley's Club House. 
—RICHARD J. HESSLING '49, Corresponding Secretary 
: TULSA 

New officers elected at the biennial election night and stag are FARRIS SAFFA '40, pres.; JACK CHAKON '48, vice-pres.; RAY SIEGFRIED U '65, sec; and JOHN J. JOYCE '51, treas. Our congratulations to them! Thirty-seven membeis attended including MARION BLAKE, BOB BIOLCmNI, BERNARD CARNEY, JOHN CONDON, LEE DARBY, PAT DARBY, JACK CONWAY, GERRY DONOVAN, JIM GWIN­NER, DON HANISCH, BOB JONES, GAVIN KING, BOB KRUPPS, BOB LAIRD, PAUL LOOP, JOHN MADDEN, PETE McMAHON, 
JOE MOONEY, JOE MORAN, BILL SAFFA, HUGH SCHAEFER, LARRY SCHMIDT. BOB SHEEHAN, BILL SHEEHAN, BILL SHERRY, BOB SIEGFRIED, "SPIKE" SULLIVAN, BILL WARRE.V, JERRY WOOD, JOE RYAN, JOHN EDWARDS and JOHN WARD McCANN. It was a truly high proportion of otu: approximate 88 members. 
The Club wishes to welcome the new mem­beis including Bob Biolchini, Joe Ryan, BILL HANNAN, BILL JOHNSON, Ray Siegfried, fat Darby and BYRON "BAN" ORMSBY, who have recently either moved to or returned to Tulsa, The new officers give promise to increase the activities and participation of the Club. 
—BARNEY SULLIVAN •39 
TWIN CmES, MINN. 

We thank Ruth and JACK ALEXANDER '53 for heading the Xmas Ball at Holiday Inn Cen­tral Dec. 27. It was a very enjoyable event for the 50 couples attending but we're all disap­pointed there weren't more. Let's triple the crowd next year! 
Due to proximity of dates of the SUMMA luck-off in Minnesota &tay .13 there will be no UND Night this year. Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE CSC, executive vice-president is the honored speaker. Chairman JOHN J. CON­NELLY '53 tenutively plans the Town and Country Club in S t Paul for location. All Alumni, parents and friends of the University are welcome. State-wide invitations will be sent iqMn completion of plans. 
Future events are a Cockt^ Dinner and Theater Party at the Old Log Theater in June, M summer Family Picnic, and Freshman Orienta­tion. 
Club Officers are in the process of grouping Alumni geographically to promote Satellite Clubs. Anyone willing to help start a Club in his area is asked to contact BOB BURNS, Rt. 6, Box 32, Excelsior, Minn. 55331 for a list of potential members. We'd like to promote mu­tual cooperation between Satellite CUubs and the Twin City Club for major events. 
—ROBERT N. BURNS '55, Secretary 
UTAH' 

Despite the bad weather during December, the Club was well represented at the ND-Utah State basketball game in Logan. Our group, small but vocal, was treated to an N D victory over a leading Utah team. 
As of this WTiting, mid-February, plans for UN D Night are in motion. Also, a formal con­stitution is being drafted for the Club and will be presented for ratification by our membership at our UNO Night meeting. 
Our 1968 dues drive is in high gear with re­turns already rolling in. It is hoped the re­sponse in 1968 will be near 100 percent to allow the Club to continue the active pace of 1967. 
All members are urged to attend our UN'D Night meeting, details of which will be available soon. An interesting speaker from the Campus will be the featured attraction. 
—BILL POGUE '61, Secretary 
= VIRGINIA •' 

Our board of directors has just presented tlie Richmond membership with a great spring sched­ule of events. FRANK CARPIN and JIM WAL­LACE headed the committee for the annual CoDununion Breakfast St. Patrick's Day at St. Paul's Community Hall. Pres. JERRY OWENS and ex-pres. BERNIE NIERLE are directing the activities for the ND-RFI scull race on the James River. ND won last year when the teams met for the first time in Washington, DC. The event is scheduled for Easter Sunday, April 14, with a gathering after the race at the Virginia Boat Club. 
Ex-pres. CHARLIE LA FRATTA has coordi­nated arrangements with RALPH ELMORE and LARRY ELMORE to host a smoker with ARA PARSEGHIAN as guest speaker. This spec­tacular occurs April 18 at the West End Cath­olic Businessmen's Club. For May 13 CHARLIE MORRISON, FRANK WALLMEYER and CHARLIE SCHLIECKERT are programming UN D Night. The banquet this year will be at the Holiday Inn and the University will fur­nish a campus speaker. JAY ZENNER '67 has been commended for the outstanding athletic program he has up-dated at our own Benedic­tine HS. Jay is also doing a comprehensive public relations job for the University. Both Ara and Father Hesburgb can be real proud of this Alumnus. 
-GORDON SUTLIFr, Secretary 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

The Club sponsored a Christmas Dance Dec 28 at the Shoreham Hotel. Dancing was pro­vided by Sidney's Orchestra. Attendance was cut because of snow and rain. Among those in attendance were JACK LOWE, BILL MID­DENDORF, DICK GALLAHER, DICK SHIP­MAN, JOHN MACHECA, JIM KRAUSER, 
FRANK MCCARTHY, RAYMOND RAEDY, PETE CANNON, BILL BURNETT, TIM SHEA, PAT GORMAN, BOB HUTCHISON, JOE LIB­BY and AL VIROSTEK. 
January was taken up by the SUMMA prep­arations. The drive was launched in Washing­ton Jan. 2S with the dinner at the Shoreham HoteL More than 250 people turned out to hear Rev. EDMUND JOYCE and his team. Co-Chaiimen for the Washington area are Pat Gorman and Bob Hutchison. 
The Club is now preparing an agenda for the rest of the year. —RAYMOND RAEDY '62, Treasurer 
SPORTS 
IRISH BASKETBALL IN 1967-68 Glee in the fieldhouse, gloom in the Garden. 
WHAT A WAY TO GO .. .WELL, ALMOST 
Two days after the National Invita­' tion Basketball Tournament (NIT) Johnny Dee was fit to be tied. 
"We've done nothing yet in recruit­ing next year's freshman team. This week we've got to hit the road and talk to some boys." 
He was the picture of a coach just forced into his umpteenth overtime game and not certain at all that the battle was nearing an end. 
"What's more, we've got the annual banquet, awards, captcdncy of next yeaPs team and scheduling to handle before we ease off." 
The 21-9 season just complete, best in the last 10 years at Notre Dame, seemed furthest from his mind. He was still in a turmoil that began last fall with opening drills and would continue right up to next December's opener in the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
Nonetheless, there'll be more than just a few Irish fans who'll recall how this year's squad brought winning bas­ketball back to Notre Dame. 
Perhaps their favorite moment in the 1967-68 season was the Creigh­ton game, final game of the season and the last to be played in Notre Dame's 70-year-old fieldhouse. Be­fore a homecoming crowd and many of die University's all-time basket­ball greats, the Irish pulled out a 73­68 victory in the last minute of play after trailing the upset-minded Blue-jays the entire game. 
Ironically, it wasn't one of Dee's "blucchippers" who gave ND the game at the close. Rather it was re­serve senior George Restovich who, in his years on the ball club, had seen the disastrous seasons of 5-21 and 14-14. 
"And then there's that matter of 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 
taking our program to the new build­ing and getting it to work smoothly over there." 
Before their clutch victory over Creighton, Notre Dame had accepted a bid to the NIT. This was a first in Irish history. They went into the 16­team eliminadon ranked last, but came out of it with third-place honors. 
After victories over Army (62-58) and Long Island U. (62-60), Notre Dame dropped a two-pointer to Day­ton (76-74). Then while the latter went on to take the tournament crown, the Irish stopped St. Peter's (81-78) to cinch third place. Following the NIT, junior captain Bob Amzen and junior center Bob Whitmore were named to all-toumey berths by the wire services. 
"Right now I'm fighting for more office space in the Center. We're really going to be cramped with what they've now allotted us." 
For the Irish coach, the past three seasons have been stepping stones to 
JONES and CARR . . . and glory in '68-'69. 

the 1968-69 year. This June Coach Dee, alcMig with the entire Athletic DefKtrtent, moves into the $8 3 millitm Athledc and Convocaticm Center. Under construction since July of 1966, the ACC will seat mcMre than 12,000 spectatMs in the basketball arena. And frcxn the Io<^ of it, John­ny Dee Mrill give them more tluua thdr money's worth. 
"Next year's scheduling hasn't yet been completed. We still have several open dates and these should be firmed up soon." 
Led by Austin Carr, who averaged almost 40 pioints per game, this y^r's frosh won four out oi their five games. 
Other newcomers to the Notre Dame hardcourt will be Collis Jones (6-8), Jim Hinga (6-5), Hack Mee­han (6-1), John Pleick (6-8) and Tom Siimott (6-4). Another freshman who didn't play this year but who will be (XI hand next winter is Sid Cadett (6-8). 
Beginning his fifth year as head coach, he also will welaxne several new opponents next seascm. Among them are Minnesota, Gecxgia Tech, Fordham, S t Louis and Houston in the Astrodmne. 
But the big game everywie — in­cluding Johnny Dee — is pointing to is the UCLA opener Dec. 7. 
"And we've been eyeing up that game for some time. No one can real­ly make a prediction on its outcome. But I'll say we can win it. The fact that w^re playing that kind of ball pleases me." 
Among his many other pressing matters, John Dee, with the accom­plishments of this year behind him, loc ^ to an even busi«r and more ex­citing year ahead. And that's enough to make anyone fit to be tied. 
COACH PAGNA The luxury of it all. 
To Be an Underdog Just Once 
By TOM PAGNA 
What's the story on the Fighting Irish in '68? Who's going to replace Hardy and Bleier? Have they found another SOS squad? And what about Notre Dame's "baby bombers," Hanratty and Seymour? Right before the team began spring foot­ball practice April I, Tom Pagna, offen­sive backfield coach, talked about these questions and this is his outlook for the upcoming season — ALUMNUS Editor, 
TH E old adage of only uncertainty 
being certain rings true as we enter our fifth season under Ara at Notre Dame. 
As the previous four years brought surprises and obstacles to conquer, 1968 brings the task of rebuilding a team that lost 11 starters through graduation — seven of them from the defensive unit. 
Many of the players who will be missing from our starting lineups this fall were instrumental in winning the 1966 National Championship. 
Awaiting June graduation are Tom Schoen, Tom O'Lear)' and Jim Smith­berger — the SOS crew of the defen­sive secondary that made a combined 130 tackles, intercepted 8 passes, and batted down 26. 
Replacing this trio of last-ditch de­fenders has priority in spring practice. 
Compounding the defensive back­field problem is the loss of linebackers Mike McGill, John Pergine and Dave Martin. 
Gone also is massive intimidator Kevin Hardy, the first-round draft pick of the New Orleans Saints. 
We must build the defense around a nucleus of four returnees: junior co-captain linebacker Bob Olson, senior end Chick Lauck, senior tackle Eric Norri and junior tackle Mike McCoy. 

Wherewithal. Leading the team in tackles last fall with 98, Olson pos­sesses the assets of a great college line­backer — strength, speed, size and experience. 
Logical choices to join him in our four-linebacker defense are juniors Larry Schumacher and Pete Donahue (6-0, 193, Cincinnati, Ohio), and senior John Lavin. Bob Neidert and Jim Wright are sophomores who possess qualities of defensive backs and linemen. 
Other candidates for the three \nde open jobs are juniors Vito Racanelli and Jim Merlitti, and senior Joe Freebery. 
In our four-linebacker setup, depth is always a problem but these nine candidates should yield four tough customers, even though none of them has played enough to earn a mono­gram. We look for help in the de­fensive secondary from last year's freshmen. Candidates are Ernie Jackson, Bob Wack, Chuck Zloch and Jim Sheahan. 
The rookie quartet wll fight for starting assignments with senior Tom Quinn and junior Jay Standring. 
Front Four. Coach Joe Yonto's de­fensive line will call for reshuffling if and when senior Bob Kuechenberg is moved back to offensive tackle from the defensive end he played last fall. Kuechenberg's status depends upon where untried sophomores Tony Capers and Tom Gasseling best fit our defense. 
In addition to being the mainstay of the freshman front four. Capers kicked a 23-yard field goal in the Pitts­burgh game that turned out to be the margin of victory. 
But again as in 1967, our problem seems to focus on the end spots to ccxnplement the rushing abilities of Norri and McCoy. If we are to main­tain past performances, senior de­fensive ends Ed Vuillemin and Bob Jockisch will have to live up to ex­pectations. 
On offense the prospects seem brighter but depth at the running badcs could be a problem as the season progresses. 
The offensive line, almost com­pletely new at the opening kickoff last season, fares better this fall though we must find replacements for guard Dick Swatland and center Steve Quirm. 
Center candidates with game ex­perience are seniors Tim Monty and Mike Holtzapfel and junior Larry Vuillemin. 
Backing up Swatland last season were senior Ed Tuck and junior Jim Ruzicka. 
Returning seniors are co-captain tackle George Kunz, guard Tom Mc­Kinley, tight end Jim Winegardner, and split end Jim Sejinour. 
Co-captain Kunz uses his speed, size, and e.xperience to the point where he is now a bona fide all-America can­didate. Seymour has now caught more passes for more yards than any other player in Notre i)ame's 79-year football history. 
Well Padded. Three top senior quarterbacks Terry Hanratty, Coley O'Brien and Bob Belden maJie back­field prospects exceptionally bright. Our problem will be to replace them a year from this fall. Junior Tom Gores and sophomore Joe Theismann are heirs apparent. 
Hanratty fell off to just a "great" junior year after traveling the route from unknown to national maarazine cover subject as a sophomore. For several frightening moments last year, it appeared Hanratty's confidence was shaken since he threw 15 interceptions in our first five games. 
The champion in him emerged, however, through determination and work, and in the last five games he threw 63 passes without an intercep­tion while leading his teammates to five more wins. With a good senior year Terry can break George Gipp's Notre Dame total offense record. 
Two pleasant surprises last season were running backs junior Jeff Zim­merman and senior Bob Gladicux. 
Zimmerman, who led the team in rushing last season, took the fullback 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1968 APRIL 

duties fh)m senior Ron Dushney and is an exciting runner. Gladieux, filling in for Dan Harshman, who was in­jured early in the year, averaged 4.6 yards on 84 carries last fall and will have to be considered a threat as both runner and receiver. 
'We can minimize the loss of captain Rocky Bleier and Harshman if the other halfback openings can be won by senior Frank Criniti, junior Ed Ziegler or sophomores Denny Allen or Jim Sheahan. 
Tradition. In the last 40 games, Notre Dame has not once enjoyed the luxury of being an underdog. We fully appreciate the implications—it not only puts more pressure on our team but never allows them a "flat" 
SEYMOUR and HANRATTY More than just "great" in '68? 

day. This was never more in evidence than last season after we had lost to Purdue and then were picked a two-touchdown favorite over the nation's number-one team Southern California. 
If we stress conditioning, strategy and morale to our young team and gain the knowledge of where our personnel can best play, spring practice will be a success. 
Who'd Guess that at 82 .. . 
Scene — Notre Dame Fieldhouse. Time — Saturday afternoon, March 2, 1968. Occasion — Final varsity basketball game in this historic struc­ture. 
Between halves homecoming mono­gram basketballers are introduced on the floor. Among them is Rev. Thomas Brennan CSC, team chap­lain and champion free-thrower. Cli-
ALUMNUS MARCH I9«8 APRIL 
madcally summoned from a side­line seat to receive special recogni­tion is honorary monogram man John W. McAllister, sharp-tongued, esteemed manager, custodian, super­intendent, supervisor and dean of athletic equipment since 1928. 
At the age of 82, white-haired Mac, still wiry, springy, durable and straight-spined, retires after 40 years. The crowd rises in spontaneous hail and farewell to a big little man who has survived nine football coaching regimes, three track coaches, five basketball coaches and one baseball coach. 
The Jack McAllister stories ND athletes love to tell would crowd a shelf. The most illuminating recol­lections record his technique for in­doctrinating freshmen with humility. 
Take the huge football yearling, Lou Rymkus, who tried to turn in a newly issued sweat sock that had a hole in the toe. He was obviously shocked when the wee man behind the counter assured him gruffly, "That's all right. You're too big to fall through." 
Then there was the freshman quarterback who complained about a worn pair of football shoes. This was in 1951. "They were good enough for Carideo," he was curtly reminded. The great Frank Carideo had worn them in 1930. 
"Somebody to see you, Mac," a student counter attendant currently chirps. 
"Oh, it's you," Mac rasps. "What's wrong with you — your head?" He rustles up a pair of sweat so.x. "You'll want shoes, too — number nines. But you wouldn't know that. "Your mother still buys your shoes for you." The contextual monologue is in­terrupted only by the freshman's cannily meek, "That's right, Mac." 
Some of his seasoned pupils enjoy various forms of reprisal sooner or later. One graduated giant, Wallie Ziemba, once grabbed him by the ankles and dangled him topside down. Only the other spring another mon­ster, Leon Hart, bear-hugged him from behind on Cartier Field and threw him to the turf, fondly taking care that Mac landed on top. More refined vengeance was exacted when Mac's name was proposed for an honorary Monogram Club member­ship. "Vote for the guy who issued me socks with holes in them for four years?" the dissident protested. "Never!" 
Nobody enjoys these deferred ex­ercises in riposte more than their victim. 
Mac recently revealed the underly­ing humor of his aspersive maimer. 
While replacing a piece of defective equipment for a freshman track ^can­didate, he complained of the apple-cheeked youth's carelessness widiout pause. "You like that kid, don't you, Mac?" a visitor presendy speculated. Indeed, he did. "He's a great Ud," Mac admitted gendy. 
Even the coaches have to reckon with his challenging tongue. But they smile indulgendy as they testify to his articulate "omeriness." 
Is it too much to say in summa­tion that here, under the veneer of crusty and mercurial wit, is a man of sterling character and heart of gold? I think not. For 40 years he has functioned at the same post, indepen­dent of the vagaries of man and cir­cumstance, his philosophy punctu­ated by earthy and cantankerous candor, without obscuring his dedi­cation to ND and his goodwill to ND men. 
But I defer to the more profound witness of Father TcRn Brennan, vet­eran scholar, teacher, adviser to athletes and all-around athlete in hu own right 
In Father Brennan's book, Mac be­longs to the breed of men who make and identify with tradition — the timeless character of universal and local history. 
"Jack McAllister," says the man who knows him best, "is thiat rarity, a man essentially big enough to be himself and get away with it." 
To suggest the spirit of a valedic­tory proper to a man with Mac's re­spect for his job and all its implica­tions, garnished by a whimsically pungent humor, one might choose what he said to Basketball Coach John Dee after an exciting victory by an exciting freshman team. 
"Who the hell," Mac demanded, "was that running around all night with his shirt-tail out? Next time make him stick it inside where it be­longs." 
AAAC His him to hang it up. 

It mattered not tliat Austin Carr had just set a new individual Field-house scoring record of 52 points. To Mac, Austin Carr remained an un­proved freshman who had offended the propriety involved in using or wearing athletic equipment correctly. 
— Chef Gront '22 
And as f or... 
The Old Timers' Game, as such, has been cancelled because no profes­sional players are available. Instead it will be replaced by an intrasquad game on May 11. 
* ^ ^ 
The Irish Fencing Team rounded out an 18-1 season by beating ^Va>^le State 15-12. The only loss was to Wis­consin, 14-13, which broke a 31-game %\in streak for the Notre Dame men. John Crikelair was fint with the foil this year, taking the individual title in the Great Lakes Championships. At press time the swordsmen were headed for Detroit to compete in the NCAA championship on Maixh 28­
30. Epee champ, Louis Fox (19-11) and AU-American sabre man Andy Haliw (31-5) with Crikelair (31-6) are high hopes for the Irish, 
•9& -sj ^ 
The ND Swimming Team had a hard time in the pool this season with a \\dn-loss record of 5-6. How­ever, they splashed to a surprise upset in the Northern Illinois Invitational. ^Vinning all but the 500-yd. event, tliey easily swamped host Nordiem Illinois 90-53, and broke four meet records on the way. Not quite so lucky in the postseason Motor City Invita­tional, the Irish finished second to Northern Michigan 161-145}^. 
» * « 
ND Wrestling Team had its best season in a decade with a 6-4 record. Heavyweights Mike McCoy and Pat Mudron went undefeated, helping the Irish to their first winning wrestling season in four years while Jim Han­sen at 152 lbs. had a 7-3 record. In a three-match win streak the Irish pinned Illinois Tech 27-6, University of Illinois (Chicago Circle) 30-2 and Wheaton College 20-9. 
* * * 
The Indoor Track Team had a suc­cessful season, outclassing Indiana 69-61 and Miami of Ohio 87-44, while losing one to Michigan 64-76. ND grabbed the Central Collegiate Con­ference crown for the second year in a row, outdistancing their nearest oji­ponents Western Michigan 73-60. 
• * * 
The 76th year of collegiate Baseball at ND looks like a good one with Coach Jake Kline fielding 11 mono­gram winners and a big-time pitching staff. The Irish lost only five seniors from a 1967 team whose record was 17-8-1 and are looking to a big season wth first baseman Dick Licini who batted .390, a certainty for the slug­ging title. In a 27-game schedule Michigan State and Western Michi­gan hold the biggest challenge. 
• * • 
One of the country's top middle-distance runners, two expert dashmen and an impressive group of freshmen contribute to the belief that ND's Outdoor Track season should be a good one. Hopes are up in the high jump and pole vault \viih Ed Broderick and John Madden, respectively. Coach Alex Wilson feels that the team's new depth will place the Irish in a posi­tion to score well in nearly every event. 
« * 
Despite the loss of last year's team captain Bill Brown, hopes are high for the Tennis squad this spring with Jasjit Singh returning as number-one man. Undefeated in 16 dual matches in '67 and wnner of the singles tide in the Eastern Collegiate Champion­ships, he is a sure winner for the Irish. Team captain Carlos Carriedo fills the second spot. The 18-match sched­ule includes two tournaments. 
Time for Some Soul Searching 
(Continued from page 19) 
pose in mind," Woodwzurd explained, "but I thought it gave each area Alumnus the opportunity to search his own soul and to stand up in con­science against this form of racial and religious discrimination." 
The Notre Dame Club of New York's board of directors met Feb. 15, the night before the games, for a regularly scheduled session. From the meeting came a statement endorsing the National Alumni Board's position. It amounted to one sentence: "The board of directors of the Notre Dame Club of New York supports this (the national bojird's) position." 

Nothing more was heard from the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
John McNamara '31, president of the New York ND Club, appeared more concerned about Woodward than the issue at hand. He and other Alumni suspected that Woodw£u:d was using Notre Dame for self-promotion. 
In answer to reporters, McNamara revealed he did not know Woodward and, what's more. Woodward did not even belong to the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
As far as the Club president was concerned, "Had Woodward been a member of the New York Club and had he suppcvted it, I would have been more impressed. I would like 
to know if he supported the Univer­sity in the Challenge and SUMMA drives, and also if he contributed to the Alumni Association." Press Conference. Nevertheless the NDAARDA committee, about 50 strong, went ahead with its plans. A press conference was called before the games and the same appeal that had been prepared for New York area Alumni was given the press. Wood­ward, who conducted the news meet­ing, indicated his group had also called upon area bishops to endorse the stand. He remarked the response had been favorable. 

The srames were held and the sports media recorded them along with die picketing and boycotting. Notre Dame's own track squad, earlier scheduled to compete in the Garden, ran in Ann Arbor at the U. of Mich­igan that weekend. However, there was no comment from Notre Dame's Athletic Department on whether this was related to the boycott. 
Following the games, Notre Dame 

Alumni were heralded for their ef­
forts in the cause of civil rights. Both 
the religious and secular press pointed 
with admiration to a new positive di­
rection by organized Alumni. Com­
monweal suggested such constructive 
projects might "encourage alumni as­
sociations to use their energies for 
more than fund raising or waxing 
nostalgic and getting drunk at college 
reunions." 
Several other Alumni became in­

volved in the dispute on an individual 
basis. Former Ail-Americans Frank 
Tripuka '49 and Angelo Bertelli '47 
made public statements endorsing the 
boycott. They encouraged fellow 
Alumni to become involved. 
In addition Walter "Red" Smith '27 used his nationally syndicated sports column to discuss the issue. He openly deplored clean sports being diagged into a dirty mess. "Yet," he added, "if one believes, as I do, that the fight for dignity and equality is a good fight, then it's hard to quibble about the weapons used. .. . If this seems to argue the immoral position that the end justifies the means, then make the immoral the most of it." 
The NYAC matter has now quieted. But the action is just as likely to re­peat itself at other private clubs, at other meets and in affairs surrounding the summer Olympic games. Once ag ^ the same simple issue will come up and stare Notre Dame Alumni in the face. When it does, what then will be their attitude? Individually of coUectively, will they be willing to give Christian vritness on behalf of human equality? The issue is simple, about as simple as black and white. 
FROM FAR-FLUNG CORRESPONDENTS 
Something Less Than Calm 
By Lt(ig) Thomas J. Doty '66 
"Today Communist North Korea committed the most aggressive act since the 1953 Armistice was signed as she brazenly captured an American in' teltigence ship, the USS Pueblo, taking the entire crew prisoner. The sur­prise piratical attack took place in international waters some 15 miles off 
the coast of North Korea . . ." 

NITIAL DISMAY over the news story I was quickly solidified into an im­measurable world crisis. And I don't think it too assuming to say the ma­jority of interested Americans was aligned solidly and emotionally against the aggressive North Korean action. 
That was less than two months ago. The situation remains unchanged and is all but forgotten, erased off the front pages by a new Communist surge in Vietnam and an interesting political race at home. 
I left Korea four days before the Pueblo incident after a 16-month tour with the UN Command (UNC). When I arrived in the US, everyone's greeting was "It looks like you got out of there just in time." In time 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1948 APRIL 

for what? To avoid a hot, tense mil­itary situation? The fact is the North Koreans have tried everything short of all-out war for the past 20 months. 
Korea Forgotten. Perhaps the toned-down Pueblo crisis and my personal experience best illustrate a point I feel very strongly about: Korea is an im­portant country too long and too easily forgotten by too many Amer­icans. Let me bring you up to date. 
I met many other ND men in Korea, including a few land-locked sailors like myself, and the consensus is clear: Man for man and dollar for dollar, the RepubUc of Korea (ROK) is probably our greatest ally, even in the face of continuing and growing Communist aggression. We should 
PANMUNJOM'S HSEEDOth HOUSE Symbol fer democracy. 
draw heavily aa our expoience here. For name reasim they call Korea Th e Land 6i the Mmning Cahn." I was in the country iat better than one year and still doo't ioiow why. Many times I have leaned forward, taken the military lens filters 6S my field glasses and strained for the civilian detsul that would justify that land's ancient title. And tliis is what I note. 
I see a land that Is anything but calm. The people are rushing to escape poverty—building, expanding, developing mentally, socially, eco­nomically, politically and militarily— while the Communist North Koreans step up their tempo fA attacks on the ROK and US armed forces al(Hig the demilitarized zone (DMZ), and often in the midst of the civilian population. 
Dynasty Dominatiofl. HistcNrically, Korea is a nation which owns the im­enviable heritage of living under an unending string of dynasties. Korea has been the football in many oriental power plays (China, Japan and Russia) and the opposition's playbook is not likely to change in the foresee­able future. 
But the overriding factor that is allo%ving the country to forget or at least ignore that asj)ect of its heritage is through it all, Korea has always been Korea. It has always been a distinct nation of people. 
As is par in a growing nation, there is a sharp contrast between wealth and poverty. Seoul, the capital, sends nu­merous tall, thin buUdmgs jutting past the pagoda tops to compete with the mountains that form a defensive pe­rimeter around Korea's prize dty. This city, devastated just 14 years ago, is the country's inspiration as it builds pedestrian overpasses imdeipasses, vehicle bypasses and an occasicxial cloverleaf. Just late last fall, they cut theribbons opening the country's first stretch of toll road. 
Important Visitors. Politically Korea is a seemingly popular nation. Since October of 1966, the Republic has had key state visits frcHU such top US leaders as Lyndon B. Johnsm, Hubert Humphrey, senators and congressmen and West Gormany's Pres. Heinrich Luebke. And it is likely the ROK will get the nod to host a ccniference of the \^etnam War allies. 
The Republic's progressive cam­paign (that has an eye on the possible reunification of north and south as a result of eventual economic domina­tion byfiree Korea) is led by second-term Pres. Park Chung Hee. (It is 
5» 

NORTH KOREAN DELEGATION, DOWNTOWN SEOUL. UN COAAAAAND No script cKanges were necessary. 
interesting to note that, though the 
Republic is organized as a democracy, 
the president and national assembly 
membere are the only elected officials 
in the country.) Added incentive was 
drawn by the administration when 
they successfully completed their first 
five-year economic plan while the 
North Koreans were forced to extend 
the target date for tlieir first seven-
year plan by another seven years. 

Poverty Problems. Still, Korea is far from rich. Take natural resources for example. There is an obvious shortage. Though my travels were restricted to the city and the DMZ areas to the north, I saw little other than man power, will power and acres of muddy riceland chopped up by worthless hills. 
Wood is a tj'pically precious com­modity. And because it is necessary for paper, all newspapers are re­stricted to four-six pages daily. Un­authorized woodcutting anj'where is a federal offense. In fact the illegal felling of trees is one of five "national social evils" proclaimed by President ParL 
The average wage in Korea is around $140 a year. Most Koreans make far less (especially the non-city folk) and a few make much more. Though the gap between poverty and wealth is large, there is a growing middle class of white-collar workers in the cities. 
Perhaps the most amazing aspect of life in Korea—one that has baffled me since the day I stepped off the fiUed-to-capacity Northwest airliner more than 8000 miles from home—is the unbelievable ingenuity of Koreans in the movement of people and goods. 
Imaginative Transportation. If the guy who invented the wheel were still around to collect royalties, he'd be far and away the richest and most satis­fied man in the world. For when it comes to the art of transporting goods short or long distances, the Koreans have milked that harnessing of round­ness for all it's worth. Millions of 
6a 
straining tire bladders give daily testi­
mony to this. 
The Korean bicycle businessman wll strap everything from pyramids of 500-600 empty beer or pop cans to a pure and simple four-by-eight sheet of glass to the "passenger" rack on the rear fender. And rest assured this long freight index frequently includes a 200-pound drug-stunned pig or a menagerie of chicken cages, with chickens. 
The more prosperous of the poor merchants use a typically crude but typically effective rig. They hitch a strange series of motors, gears and belts—something that looks like a primitive "Wheelhorse, of course"—to the cart and save wear and tear on the shoes they probably don't own. The poorest of the poor merchants do wthout wheels and load the same cargoes on an A-frame (or jig-heh), the most traditional U-Haul of this sector of Asia. It's little wonder nearly every Korean A-frame bearer has painfully well-muscled shoulders, back and legs. 
The mechanized Korea also boasts a three-wheeled mini-pickup truck that resembles a kid's tricycle with a cab mounted over the handle bars and a truck bed over the rear wheels. 
As if these are not enough. World War II vintage trucks held together with coat upon coat of dark blue paint plod along the roads, belching smoke and spitting gear teeth. 
Taxi Terrors. Then there are the little pastel green and blue Renault-sized taxi cabs—there are more than 5000 in Seoul alone. In Korea, a cab driver is bom, not made. He is bom with his foot nzdled to the floor through the gas pedal, his hand glued to the hom and endowed with a "may the best man win" attitude. Here the hom replaces the brake because they find little reason to stop (other than collisions) once they have warned their competition. 
No maneuver is too complicated for these kamikaze drivers. I spent many 
days along the DMZ in thick bush 
and potentially hostile country where 
I could well have been ambushed by 
a raiding North Korean patrol. But 
the most consistent fear I had was 
riding in a Seoul taxi. 
A few, very rich enjoy their own cars, mostly renovated jeeps. There are so many buses, trolleys and taxis in Korea—especially in Seoul's metro­politan area—that it is not at all un­usual to drive for blocks and blocks, even during rush hours, without seeing a privately owned vehicle of any sort, save perhaps a cart or an olive dtab US Army sedan. 
Youns, Old DifFer. But what are the people like? It's hard to describe the Korean people. For the most part, they are earnest and hard-working. The old and the non-city folk don't seem to change their ways. But the young are putting in their bid for the future and they have long figured in the political atmosphere of the Re­public. I believe the college students (whose USIS - sponsored English-speaking club I advised for some time) are typical. 
They are proud to be Korean be­cause they are a free nation making rapid economic advances. They are contributing 45,000-plus crack troops to the aid of Vietnam (as 16 other nations did in Korea in 1953) and mostly because the future is theirs. They are naively outspoken about world politics and, though they are "curious" about Communism (Korea has stem anti-Communist laws), they are fanatically anti-Communist. They seem eager to act and make bold decisions. They will determine the Korea of tomorrow. 
Mainly Mountains. On to the physi­cal atmosphere. Korea is most often and rightly referred to as a mountain­ous peninsula. The housing develop­ment I lived in was built in such a hilly area that a walk to and from the bus stop was like two-a-day September football practice sessions at ND. South Korea does, however, 
ALUMNUS MARCH \96S APRIL 

f have miles and miles of rice paddies 
J and productive farmland, most of it 
I made fertile with human and animal waste. I found weather over the peninsula 
.; more pleasantly moderate than even i the clune of South Bend—with two t exceptions. The sharp winter wind ? lowers the temperature 20 degrees 
j with one gust, especially along the DMZ. And in the summer monsoon 
j rains play havoc (they caused $33 million damag;e and leaving 410,000 homeless in the smnmers of 1965-66). Last summer the rains never came and a drought ruined thousands of ' tons of rice and frequently caused severe power shortages. There is much more to the physical atmosphere in Korea and most of it is a tension felt keenly by the military and political powers-that-be. For the jieace in Korea is, at best, an imeasy one. Reds Attack. Since the autumn of 1966, the Communist North Koreans have launched a campaign of aggres­sion that tapers off only \vith the foliage in the DMZ. It began con­spicuously enough Nov. 2, during the final hours of President Johnson's three-day visit to the Republic. The North Koreans attacked a UNC patrol in the southern portion of the DMZ. The result—six 2nd US Infantry Division soldiers and one Korea augmentee dead—marked this as the most startling military develojj­ment in the Republic since the armi­stice agreement was signed in 1953. Up to that point the Korean situa­tion was quite static. American cas­ualties tell the story pretty clearly— one killed in 1955 and 1962, two killed and one wounded in 1963. In 1966, there were only 64 major incidents reported along the 151-mile DMZ. 
But Oct 5, 1966, just days before the North Korean's first bloody assault since the war, the Communist country's premier, Kim II Sung, called for the establishment of a strong revolutionary base in South Korea to promote subversion and warfare aimed at the eventual "liberation" of the South Korean people. 
Ten days later the North Koreans killed two ROK soldiers. By the Nov. 2 incident, 13 South Korean soldiers had been murdered, all south of the Military Demarcation Line, in attacks marked by machine-gunning and then bayoneting of the dead bodies. 
And the list goes on. The early months of 1967 (obviously a good time for North Korean activity on the seas) saw Communist shore batteries sink the'ROK patrol craft PCE-56 as she peacefully escorted some stray South Korean fishing boats back to 
AlUMNUS MARCH 1948 APRIL 
their flock. The toll: more than 40 
killed. 
In the spring infiltrators sneaked Into a US compound just south of the DMZ and blew two Quonset hut barracks sky high with more than 80 pounds of TNT, killing two and wounding 18 others. 
In late summer well-armed North Koreans ambushed an American engi­neering unit adjacent to the Advance Camp of the Military Armistice Com­mission, litde more than a grenade's throw from the Panmunjom meeting site. The savage surprise attack killed three and wounded 27, including three Korean civilians who were part of a mess hall and laundry crew. 
The summer and fall were marred by North Korean sabotage of pas­senger and freight trains, mining of roads, innumerable landings and at­tempted landings of agent boats along South Korea's rough coastline. 
After a brief winter lull, they picked up right where they left off, sending a well-trained raiding party into the south with one mission—to assassinate 
IT(ig) TOM DOTY* Occidental observations. 

the president of the Republic And a few days later, the USS Pueblo fell prey to their aggression. 
Altogether nearly 30 Americans and more than 100 ROKs have been killed, with another 300 wounded and a ship's crew captured. An estimated 300 or more North Koreans have been killed or captured in the action, both along the DMZ and in the interior. These startling statistics back up any number of conclusions. 
Many Meetinss. Short of assuming more stringent defensive measures, little has or can.be done. Since the 1953 signing of the armistice. Military Armistice Commissions of the Com­munist north and the free south have been meeting' at Panmunjom two 
or three times a month. 
I witnessed 40 of the nearly 270 
meetings to date and nothing has or 
ever will change. We duuge the 
North Koreans with any violation of 
the Armistice they commit (and there 
are many), backed up by accurate 
facts, evidence and frequently piles of 
captured equipment. 
In turn, the North Koreans either ignore or deny every charge (they have only admitted two of 5000 viola­ticnis) and throw out counter-charge upon counter-charge all but 90 of which (of nearly 51,000) have proven to be groundless. No meeting is com­plete without hours of North Korean propaganda tirades spouting the party line. With this precedent, it is doubt­ful their script for the Pueblo n^;o­tiations could have changed even in punctuation. 
Even as they are denying charges at a truce meeting, they are hard at work oa new raids and ambushes. You have to actually see the ru^ed terrain along the entire DMZ to understand tibe difficulties in defend­ing the twisting demarcation line. Rugged mountains in the east yield to dense undergrowth in the US-defended western sector which pro­vides excellent cover for North Korean raiding parties and agents. 
The DMZ—a. strip some 4000 meters wide—^has beoi uninhabited so Icmg that I have seen more pheasant, cranes and wild boar there than on any "American Sportsman" series. Before the upsurge in hostile activity, many soldiers hunted wild­life near the DMZ but this has since changed to the more serious business of hunting an aimed aggressor. 
If you believe in safety in numbers, the US has about 50,000 troops in Korea to lend muscle to its well-trained and equipped air force and navy. The 575,000-man ROK Army, third largest in the free world, is a fearied force as their performance in Vietnam can attest. Together, they are defending more than just the Indiana-sized Republic—they are de­fending an important foothold on the Communist-dominated Asian main­land. 
Korea is playing an undeniably leading role in the development of a free, strong Asia. She is an Asian nation helping another Asian nation. This is the new Korea as I see it. This is "The Land of The Morning Cahn." 
—U. ng-l Thomas J. Doty '66, USNR 

* After 16 months as mcdim Uauon officer far 
the UN command in Korea, Doty is now- a». 
signed to the 4lh Naval Dtsbict in Fhiladelplua 
as asastant pabUc affairs officer. His ustnk in 
Korea was lecentlr lecogniicd with the presenta­
tion of the Joint Cnwmand's commendation mcdaL 
«1 

Congregation or one noiy uross Notre Dame, Indiana 45555 
Mr. Francis P. Clark 
HONORARY PRESIDENT RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '54 PRESIDENT WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '17 VICE-PRESIDENT WILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. '40 
VICE-PRESIDENT LEO V. TURGEON '4? VICE-PRESIDENT 
JAMES D. COONEY '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 

DIRECTORS TO 1969 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 BUDGET 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 
WILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. '40 
ADMISSIONS 1108 EMILIE ST. GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 

RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '54 PUBLIC RELATIONS AND 
DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS P.O. BOX 200 SOUTH BEND, IND. 46624 
LEO V. TURGEON '42 ATHLETIC SUITE 107 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 3731 STOCKER ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
EDWARD G. CANTWELL '24 700 BINNS BLVD. COLUMBUS, OHIO 43204 
EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK JR. '54 5 THE MAPLES ROSLYN ESTATES, N.Y. 11576 
JOHN J. REIDY '27 11850 EDGEWATER DR. LAKEWOOD, OHIO 44107 
LEONARD H. SKOGLUND '38 426 DOVER AVE. LAGRANGE PARK, ILL, 60525 
DIRECTORS TO 1971 
W. JEROME KANE '38 THE BOEING CO. P.O. BOX 3707 SEATTLE, WASH. 98124 

WALTER M. LANGFORD '30 1315 OTSEGO ST. SOUTH BEND> IND. A(,6\7 
DONALD F. O'BRIEN '42 1113 ROCKY RIVER RD. HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002 
FRANCIS J. WILSON '28 6105 HOWE ST. PITTSBURGH, PA. 15219 
MAGAZINE STAFF JAMES D. COONEY '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY JOHN P. THURIN '59 EDITOR JUNE SHASSERE DICK RILEY '68 SHEILA DIERKS EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. BRUCE HARLAN 'A9 
CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER RICHARD STEVENS '51 PETER McGRATH '7Q RICHARD HUNT '69 DON DEMPSEY '71 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
NOTBB DAME 
a' llMll^ 







